<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : welcome back . industrial designer : i 'm sorry to be late . project manager : welcome back everybody . user interface : yeah . thanks . project manager : so this meeting agenda will be the detailed design meeting . and uh opening and uh pms of the meet minutes , uh prototype presentation from uh christine and uh agnes . industrial designer : agnes , yes . project manager : yes and uh evaluation criteria . the finance , it 's uh from my side , from the management , and uh production evaluation . then uh closing . so we have forty minutes to discuss and uh finalise and close the product and project and to move further , okay , so okay , let 's talk about uh maybe first uh for the prototype . user interface : mm , okay . project manager : so i handle to user interface : i 've done a presentation , but it pretty much covers work that we 've both done , so if i 'm missing anything , christine can just correct me . project manager : so shall i go to sorry . industrial designer : uh thank you , so you did a powerpoint presentation , good for you . project manager : yep . s okay , let 's go to ami . user interface : it 's not the biggest powerpoint presentation in the world , but industrial designer : marketing : project manager : so in two or three or industrial designer : user interface : three . um . no it 's marketing : probably . technical pa i would think . user interface : think it 's the last one . no , then this is the la yeah , that one , final design . project manager : yeah . user interface : it is named appropriately , you just could n't see the name . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : um okay , can i have the mouse ? thanks . alright , so from when we were discussing specifying the case in the last meeting , we decided that we wanted an ergonomic shape , the material that we chose was wood , and uh the colour would be customisable , 'cause you can stain the wood whatever colour . um , so in terms of function , you have to be able to turn the tv on and off , volume and channel control , menu control , voice recognition control , and we 've incorporated the lcd screen on the flip panel as part of the design , if we figure out it 's too expensive , well then you just take it off . um , so to unveil our lovely product . this is our remote control , with the flip panel as you can see . marketing : user interface : so if you lift up the panel , you can see the lovely yellow lcd display . um , this is actually hard to do . the yellow button you have is the on off button , so it 's really big , hard to miss . you have the the red um triangles are the toggles for changing the volume . so up volume up , down volume down . the green are the channel changing . s and it 's one of those very light , very touchable displays . and then you have the numeric pad in the dark blue at the bottom , and on the right-hand side you have the access to the menu on the tv , and on the left-hand side you have the the the ability to turn off the voice recognition . so this is pretty much what we had on the white board the last time . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and uh i could user interface : oh yes . industrial designer : yeah the d user interface : additional feature on the back is that you can have your own customised backing and i suppose you could do the same thing on the flip case on the front . so that you can really make this a highly highly customisable remote control . industrial designer : we have n't um uh specified where the speaker or the microphone will be placed . that depends on the uh s design of the circuit board inside and uh what room is left um user interface : yeah . project manager : i think the microphone is on on the top , uh on the middle , the under the flip . industrial designer : yes , okay . uh-huh . project manager : so that will be the safe , so p any the chip it 's not on the chip because you need to have microphone to industrial designer : no , i mean it depends on the design of the circuit board . user interface : but it should n't be under the flip either , because you can have the remote control closed , but you still might want to activate it by voice . project manager : uh it 's it 's yeah , but uh uh my opinion i think it 's better under the flip because whenever you want to uh the talk , okay , so then you can speak then you can close it . but if you put it on the on the flip , okay , then uh technical i do n't think it 's uh feasible , 'cause most of the time you speak then it will be recognised . user interface : but if you 've already got the remote control in your hand you need to open the flip to use the voice , why use the voice , why not just use your hand ? i mean the whole point of the voice is that if the remote control is sitting there and i 'm too lazy to reach over and pick it up , i can just use my voice . industrial designer : maybe i 've got my hand in the popcorn bowl and i 'm holding my cup of coca-cola in the other hand . user interface : yeah . and you do n't wan na let go of either one . marketing : i do n't wan na say . louder . yeah . user interface : i mean it does n't have to be on the flip , it can be on the side somewhere . marketing : can also be on the side . project manager : yeah , the sides maybe is good . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so , i mean i can pass this around if anyone wants to project manager : yes . so it 's maybe good idea . industrial designer : yeah , y better you pass it around with a napkin . user interface : marketing : no , because y you can easily put a microphone on the side that would have no problem would have n't been not be damaged or anything , and it 'd be accessible all the time to voice . user interface : yeah . project manager : yes . yeah . user interface : yeah , exactly . marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's maybe good idea . s s industrial designer : it 's um it 's um marketing : compliments to the artist . industrial designer : you need to work on the weight a little bit . marketing : uh . project manager : okay . s i 'm fine , i 'm satisfi user interface : and maybe the shape of the buttons , project manager : i 'm satisfied . user interface : the little egg shapes are n't the most economical , but industrial designer : we 're glad you 're satisfied . project manager : of course it 's it 's it 's looks more heo heavy , but i think when it 's completely maybe it 's a less weight . user interface : yeah . i mean this is plasticene . there 's only so much you can do . we could have possibly made it a lot thinner as well . but and part of the thing is m a lot of people say that they do n't like something that 's too light , because they do n't feel like they have enough control over it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so i mean maybe this is excessively heavy , but i think it needs to have some weight , it needs to feel like you 're still holding something . so that 's pretty much it for our presentation actually . project manager : that 's your uh prototype model ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , that 's good , thank you very much . marketing : project manager : so any comments or uh marketing : well , the prototype is is very well within the design and ideas that we 've we 've talked about on the previous meetings . project manager : okay . marketing : now it goes into this next phase as the financial uh marketing uh project manager : yes , that uh so i 'll come back to the so evaluation criteria , i think uh that will be good , so then let 's come to the finance uh , i have some uh calculations which i made uh as for uh the budget . so here you can uh look like uh the energy and uh dynamo and uh kinetic and solar cells . uh it 's optional , somewhat optional and ed wants the chip on print , that 's what uh we were talking about that . industrial designer : project manager : so then we have sample sensor and sample speaker , then uh we have the wood material , then special colour and push button . so it 's uh actually , our budget was uh twelve point five euro , but uh it 's coming to nine point nine five euro , so we are under uh below the budget , okay , so still we are saving some money . i think it 's a good figure . industrial designer : yes , great i i 'm surprised . marketing : industrial designer : congratulations . project manager : than thank you . marketing : well we have n't come to mine yet , so industrial designer : oh , okay user interface : industrial designer : . it 's gon na cost a long way to c you know , cost a lot of money to market it , is it ? marketing : we 're gon na have a bit of difference of opinion , yes . project manager : so maybe it 's for some money we can utilise for our uh marketing , for the sales , okay , and uh marketing : well , it just depends on if we 're gon na add a o on this pr provisionary cost analysis , we do not have a l_c_ display . l_c_ display is gon na be very expensive , user interface : no we do , but it 's not filled in . marketing : it 's gon na be project manager : it 's not . industrial designer : thirty . marketing : it 's not it does n't say . user interface : it 's number thirty . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : we do n't have the price up there , user interface : oh , yeah , yeah , project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : you 're right , sorry , yes . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay , so if we add approximately two to three euro per remote , now we 're up around about twelve , twelve and a half as to what uh the company had initially uh requested . um industrial designer : so that means we can put the uh the lcd in , yeah . marketing : display in . but as far as production um i 'm putting up a question because we 're talking about profit also , and in mine you 'll see uh the problem with uh our survey , the p the possibility that how many units can be sold , what percentage of the market , etcetera etcetera because that has to be taken in into consideration . project manager : marketing : uh this is just production cost , it is not uh advertising cost , it 's not transportation cost uh project manager : yes , so still uh we have twelve point five euro . marketing : and that will inflate quite a bit the cost of the uh the cost of the unit for the company . project manager : yes . yeah , but yes . yep . user interface : um-hmm . marketing : so to come up with what the company wants is a fifty million pound profit , we 're gon na have to go a long ways . project manager : yes . this we are talking about one unit , okay , so when it go into the quantity , okay , and the cost will come down . marketing : yes . industrial designer : although customisation , because this is being done , you know , the on on-order basis , it might be uh the the quantity wo n't m wo n't uh marketing : slightly . project manager : yeah . marketing : it 's gon na be very hard to reduce . industrial designer : the circuit board will b you 're right , would be in producing quantity , but the cost of the case would uh be fixed at the uh you got some pretty cheap labour that can do this case for one euro . marketing : that 's not bad . industrial designer : that 's really that 's the cost of the material and lab wow , that 's really outstanding . project manager : yep . yeah . but anyhow , still we are under control , okay , so what uh i will do is i will try to negotiate with the vendors , okay , to get uh the production cost less , okay , so then we can save some money , okay , to put into th our marketing or uh you know the promotions , whatever , okay , so that uh i will look after . i will speak to the management and how to get uh you know some more uh cost down . marketing : if we can go to to my display . and we 'll come back to yours just to give everybody an idea of the market . so now i 'm gon na scare everybody out of this project . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : if i 'm still here . project manager : you 're in four ? marketing : yep the four gives me it 's got ta be uh trendwatch . project manager : trendwatch . industrial designer : is this the same one you did before ? okay . marketing : it should n't be user interface : that 's no , i think it 's the same one . marketing : if it 's not it 's not the right one . no , no we g no , that 's the same one . you have to go back and find another one . whatever name it popped up under . project manager : user interface : functional . marketing : uh functional , try functional , it might not be it either , but we 'll see . industrial designer : user interface : it looks like it , there 's s yeah . marketing : yep , that 's it . so we 'll go screen by screen . project manager : okay . marketing : although since uh we need to have some type of idea on a market uh we had independent study that says it this this market has an availability to absorb eight mi eight million units per year . okay ? our internal company evaluation puts it between eight to nine million which is approximately the same as the independent study . project manager : yep . marketing : so if we continue , we 'll look at the findings . next screen . which means that uh if we have a target of two million would the company has to take twenty five percent of the market in the first year , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : which is actually a tremendous amount . industrial designer : yeah , no kidding . marketing : no kidding , yeah . industrial designer : mayb maybe they already expected something . marketing : so , if we put an inflated price of fifty euro at a production cost that can not exceed twenty-five euro , okay , we 're already in that that price , okay , with transport , promotion , labour , because we hav gi included the promotion in the cost , transport for the material to the stores or whatever how however we 're gon na break this down between our our retailers . user interface : um-hmm . marketing : twenty-five percent of the market to get to two million units . at two million units , we have to have a profit of twenty-five euro per unit to get to the fifty million unit eu euro profit . project manager : mm-hmm . yep . marketing : okay ? so , obviously we w w i just did a run down the evaluation of the form , the fan uh the fancy stylishness of the of the unit , the ease of use , speech recognition , cost , we 've gone through these . now , the company must evaluate the feasibility of being able to take enough of the market to justify in production . or we project this over two years , but being that the market changes very very quickly , maybe there 's no more interest in buying this thing in eighteen months from now . project manager : yes . yep . of course . marketing : so , now we have to come up with a decision . can the company sell two million units ? can it sell it for fifty euros ? industrial designer : could could i go to findings ? uh uh um i would uh like to explore the possibility of using um alternative um delivery and sales channel which would be um to use the internet for promotion and ordering user interface : i was thinking the same thing , yeah . industrial designer : and then to drop-ship the p product to the customer 's residence . user interface : directly . industrial designer : that way you have no storage , you have no um you do have transportation , still have the labour cost , user interface : um-hmm . industrial designer : but you do n't have the transport to the uh point of sale . the point of sale is online . user interface : yeah . project manager : to the agents . user interface : yeah . you can do a shipping centre somewhere , or strategically place shipping centres to minimise distance costs . industrial designer : right , like amazon . in fact , we should sell through amazon , project manager : yes . or ebay , or industrial designer : do n't you think ? or ebay , yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : there 's an idea . project manager : yeah , that 's a good idea . industrial designer : going with um project manager : to impro more profit and uh marketing : s upscale technology . project manager : yeah , yes . industrial designer : ah , we we 're do you know , selling a unique product uh . marketing : well . user interface : that actually makes more sense if we 're gon na make it so highly customisable , 'cause on the web people can look at the different options they have , see maybe what other people have done , what the range of possibility as , marketing : there are several companies that have gone that way . user interface : whereas if you 're in a store , you ca n't unless you 're a highly imaginative person , you may not really know what it is you want , whereas on the web , if you have a bunch of pictures , it can sort of trigger ideas and industrial designer : mm-hmm . and you can even have an a movie that you can rotate the object and look at the di the only thing that you 're missing really is the weight . user interface : yeah . the weight and feel . marketing : weight , the feel of the product , but user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we 're getting used to that . it 's not quite like trying on a shoe , but people are getting used to buying things online that they ca n't touch before buying . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : there are several that have gone through with the watches , too . you can customise a watch , you can see how it is at the f at the end of the production , industrial designer : uh-huh . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : you can change it uh there 's a lot of online that 's that is doing this now . and when you 're rotating , you 'll look behind and look this way uh it 's possible to do with this , maybe there 's a possibility of selling more than two million units in one year , which could you know , feasibili feasibility uh lower the price of the unit . project manager : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : we can . industrial designer : great . project manager : i do n't think that 's uh not possible , it 's uh okay then , l uh let 's wait for the production , okay , then uh you can evaluate the product , so how it looks like technically and uh how it look like uh the real . user interface : what turnaround time do we have ? 'cause i mean production evaluation can be very very quick or very very long . project manager : oh but yes it 's it 's very quick , of course . it will uh come back in two weeks , okay , it will be ready in two weeks . industrial designer : works for me . project manager : for evaluation , okay . industrial designer : prototypes , you mean . project manager : yes , the prototype uh prototype product evaluation . industrial designer : in um we probably should do some market tests uh once we have the prototypes and do some orders and things like that and test-market it . project manager : yes . yes . yes . marketing : well , obviously . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm that 'd have to be thrown out on the market for people to get an idea , project manager : so you can take a minimum two weeks to a maximum four weeks . marketing : to see get get their user interface : mm-hmm . think minimum two weeks if we 're gon na develop prototypes and then try to take them to different places and see how people use project manager : yeah . user interface : it 's not a trivial task . project manager : yeah , because we we are not going to do it in uh our factory , okay , so we can give it a product evalua user interface : no no . we definitely should n't do it in our factory . project manager : yes , yes . industrial designer : project manager : so we 'll do it in the other place , and i do n't think it 's take more than four weeks time . or uh okay , so then the real production we will start once we product evaluation , okay , then uh it 's approve from uh the technical team and uh your team , okay , uh from the management , then we can launch in the market . hm ? industrial designer : any outstanding ? project manager : s any any other uh questions or uh comments to be discuss ? industrial designer : no , i 'm user interface : what ab industrial designer : go ahead . marketing : i think we pretty much covered everything . project manager : okay , so then uh industrial designer : did you have something ? user interface : well i was just wondering about if we 're gon na do a product evaluation then what about time for redesign if the users come back and tell us no this is bad , this is bad , we want this done differently . project manager : okay uh , let 's take like this . let 's proceed with this model , okay , for the for the marketing direction , okay . industrial designer : project manager : so no more changes will be made , okay , in this the basic design . okay ? so we will introduce m this model and uh let 's introduce in the market and let 's take the feedback from the customers , then we can uh go for the industrial designer : second generation . project manager : second generation . user interface : project manager : okay . there 's no end , there 's not limit . industrial designer : user interface : the problem is there might not be a second generation if the first generation flops for some silly reason that we have n't thought of . project manager : every every custom industrial designer : marketing : well , then it may not be . project manager : okay . well , every customer , okay , they have their own ideas , they have their own test , okay , so there 's no end , there 's no limit . marketing : like people do n't like wood . user interface : no , but there 's a difference between releasing a product that has been minimally tested and fine-tuned to suit a general range of requirements versus releasing a product that we think will work but we do n't really have anything to back it up . marketing : very specific . project manager : yeah , so that 's the reason you are here for uh the design , okay , i hope you made a good design . user interface : yes , but i 'm not everybody . industrial designer : user interface : i mean the whole point of user evaluation is to see what real people need . we have our own motivations in mind , we have our own ideas in mind , but that does n't mean that that 's what 's gon na sell . project manager : yeah , but uh see , we ought to take a few considerations , okay , one is the price consideration , one is future consideration , okay , like uh you can eat uh you can all eat more chi i can eat more chilli , okay , so i it 's a depends on the individual taste , you know , industrial designer : project manager : so we have we have to balance somewhere . user interface : yeah , of course . i 'm just trying to point out that i think that your evaluation and redesign turnaround time is too short well you have no redesign not you personally , but in the project we have no redesign time and industrial designer : our project does n't um project manager : yeah . industrial designer : ed , d do you know what season of the year or time of the year is the most important for tv remote control sales ? would it be the christmas season by any chance ? project manager : the sports time . industrial designer : sports season . which sport season ? marketing : right before the eur the world cup . world soccer . world cup soccer , project manager : football . industrial designer : so so user interface : yeah . marketing : they need those things that they have their hands g occupied and they need to be able to talk to the con remote control . project manager : football . industrial designer : maybe what user interface : industrial designer : so i think what we need to do is perhaps to synchronise the final the the launch of a user-tested device with some special event . marketing : project manager : yes . yes . industrial designer : and and then um user interface : yeah , that 's a good idea . industrial designer : so that gives us a little more time perhaps then we anticipated , because i do n't know when the world cup is , but i 'm sure there 's gon na be one . marketing : or any major sports . industrial designer : or another m major sports event . probably not the um the football games coming up the end of january . i think that might be a little too aggressive um , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but , so , i 'm just ig uh pointing out a uh a strategy to uh do some additional user testing project manager : research . industrial designer : pri and then to launch um at a a major sports event user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or uh perhaps to uh also user interface : that 's actually good place to advertise it too . industrial designer : and to work with motion pictures . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : there might be some motion pictures that are coming out um that are coming out on d_v_d_ that uh they need to have a m special remote control to work with it , so we could maybe work out a campaign with uh with sony pictures for example . maybe some management has got uh relationships there we can leverage . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yes , the that of course uh i will convince the management to do that , okay . industrial designer : that 's great . user interface : it 's just something to to keep in mind , 'cause it 's really really important . project manager : sure , sure , yes . user interface : a lot of products have gone out there without being properly user-tested and completely flopped , when in fact it gets re-released a few years down the line with proper testing and it takes off like crazy . industrial designer : disposable diapers is an example of that in fact . user interface : really ? industrial designer : yes , it is one of the first consumer products that was launched about thirty years that was a disposable consumer product , user interface : that i did n't know . industrial designer : and uh people the market had n't really gotten on to the concept that you could use something and then throw it away , 'cause it was n't uh user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but then when they re-launched them thirty years later , they were virtually the same design , project manager : . industrial designer : but people had gotten the throw-away , you know , paper cups and napki y all kinds of things that they had n't um so , you 're right , timing is very important , user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but i think we 've got a good product . project manager : that 's the reason ed is here . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think he can promote the the brand value and the product value . industrial designer : that 's right . it 's gon na be very important to the company . project manager : yes . we are behind the scene and he is the front screen , so . he 's on the big screen . marketing : yeah , i 'm the one who takes the heat . user interface : exactly . industrial designer : good luck , ed . marketing : if it 's a flop , it 's the marketer . industrial designer : you look very relaxed , considering h you know , the uh the weight on your shoulders , yeah . marketing : yes . yes . stress . user interface : project manager : okay , so then uh let 's come to the closing and uh are the costs within the budget marketing : celebration . project manager : and uh is the product evaluated , okay , so that will uh come soon . okay for uh but our time being , so thanks for all your efforts and great work and uh great design and uh let 's leave it to the ed for later for once production is over and the meantime let 's celebrate . so let 's meet up uh this evening to hang up for some party . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : sounds good . project manager : 's good . industrial designer : thank you . user interface : okay . marketing : very good . industrial designer : nice working with you . marketing : thank you very much . project manager : thank you . thank you again for all . user interface : thanks industrial designer : user interface : project manager : and see you in the evening for drinks . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the detailed design of the product ? </s> industrial designer : i 'm sorry to be late . project manager : welcome back everybody . user interface : yeah . thanks . project manager : so this meeting agenda will be the detailed design meeting . and uh opening and uh pms of the meet minutes , uh prototype presentation from uh christine and uh agnes . industrial designer : agnes , yes . project manager : yes and uh evaluation criteria . the finance , it 's uh from my side , from the management , and uh production evaluation . then uh closing . so we have forty minutes to discuss and uh finalise and close the product and project and to move further , okay , so okay , let 's talk about uh maybe first uh for the prototype . user interface : mm , okay . project manager : so i handle to user interface : i 've done a presentation , but it pretty much covers work that we 've both done , so if i 'm missing anything , christine can just correct me . project manager : so shall i go to sorry . industrial designer : uh thank you , so you did a powerpoint presentation , good for you . project manager : yep . s okay , let 's go to ami . user interface : it 's not the biggest powerpoint presentation in the world , but industrial designer : marketing : project manager : so in two or three or industrial designer : user interface : three . um . no it 's marketing : probably . technical pa i would think . user interface : think it 's the last one . no , then this is the la yeah , that one , final design . project manager : yeah . user interface : it is named appropriately , you just could n't see the name . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : um okay , can i have the mouse ? thanks . alright , so from when we were discussing specifying the case in the last meeting , we decided that we wanted an ergonomic shape , the material that we chose was wood , and uh the colour would be customisable , 'cause you can stain the wood whatever colour . um , so in terms of function , you have to be able to turn the tv on and off , volume and channel control , menu control , voice recognition control , and we 've incorporated the lcd screen on the flip panel as part of the design , if we figure out it 's too expensive , well then you just take it off . um , so to unveil our lovely product . this is our remote control , with the flip panel as you can see . marketing : user interface : so if you lift up the panel , you can see the lovely yellow lcd display . um , this is actually hard to do . the yellow button you have is the on off button , so it 's really big , hard to miss . you have the the red um triangles are the toggles for changing the volume . so up volume up , down volume down . the green are the channel changing . s and it 's one of those very light , very touchable displays . and then you have the numeric pad in the dark blue at the bottom , and on the right-hand side you have the access to the menu on the tv , and on the left-hand side you have the the the ability to turn off the voice recognition . so this is pretty much what we had on the white board the last time . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and uh i could user interface : oh yes . industrial designer : yeah the d user interface : additional feature on the back is that you can have your own customised backing and i suppose you could do the same thing on the flip case on the front . so that you can really make this a highly highly customisable remote control . industrial designer : we have n't um uh specified where the speaker or the microphone will be placed . that depends on the uh s design of the circuit board inside and uh what room is left um user interface : yeah . project manager : i think the microphone is on on the top , uh on the middle , the under the flip . industrial designer : yes , okay . uh-huh . project manager : so that will be the safe , so p any the chip it 's not on the chip because you need to have microphone to industrial designer : no , i mean it depends on the design of the circuit board . user interface : but it should n't be under the flip either , because you can have the remote control closed , but you still might want to activate it by voice . project manager : uh it 's it 's yeah , but uh uh my opinion i think it 's better under the flip because whenever you want to uh the talk , okay , so then you can speak then you can close it . but if you put it on the on the flip , okay , then uh technical i do n't think it 's uh feasible , 'cause most of the time you speak then it will be recognised . user interface : but if you 've already got the remote control in your hand you need to open the flip to use the voice , why use the voice , why not just use your hand ? i mean the whole point of the voice is that if the remote control is sitting there and i 'm too lazy to reach over and pick it up , i can just use my voice . industrial designer : maybe i 've got my hand in the popcorn bowl and i 'm holding my cup of coca-cola in the other hand . user interface : yeah . and you do n't wan na let go of either one . marketing : i do n't wan na say . louder . yeah . user interface : i mean it does n't have to be on the flip , it can be on the side somewhere . marketing : can also be on the side . project manager : yeah , the sides maybe is good . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so , i mean i can pass this around if anyone wants to project manager : yes . so it 's maybe good idea . industrial designer : yeah , y better you pass it around with a napkin . user interface : marketing : no , because y you can easily put a microphone on the side that would have no problem would have n't been not be damaged or anything , and it 'd be accessible all the time to voice . user interface : yeah . project manager : yes . yeah . user interface : yeah , exactly . marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's maybe good idea . s s industrial designer : it 's um it 's um marketing : compliments to the artist . industrial designer : you need to work on the weight a little bit . marketing : uh . project manager : okay . s i 'm fine , i 'm satisfi user interface : and maybe the shape of the buttons , project manager : i 'm satisfied . user interface : the little egg shapes are n't the most economical , but industrial designer : we 're glad you 're satisfied . project manager : of course it 's it 's it 's looks more heo heavy , but i think when it 's completely maybe it 's a less weight . user interface : yeah . i mean this is plasticene . there 's only so much you can do . we could have possibly made it a lot thinner as well . but and part of the thing is m a lot of people say that they do n't like something that 's too light , because they do n't feel like they have enough control over it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so i mean maybe this is excessively heavy , but i think it needs to have some weight , it needs to feel like you 're still holding something . so that 's pretty much it for our presentation actually . project manager : that 's your uh prototype model ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , that 's good , thank you very much . marketing : project manager : so any comments or uh marketing : well , the prototype is is very well within the design and ideas that we 've we 've talked about on the previous meetings . </s>
<s> what did user interface introduce about the detailed design of the prototype ? </s> industrial designer : i 'm sorry to be late . project manager : welcome back everybody . user interface : yeah . thanks . project manager : so this meeting agenda will be the detailed design meeting . and uh opening and uh pms of the meet minutes , uh prototype presentation from uh christine and uh agnes . industrial designer : agnes , yes . project manager : yes and uh evaluation criteria . the finance , it 's uh from my side , from the management , and uh production evaluation . then uh closing . so we have forty minutes to discuss and uh finalise and close the product and project and to move further , okay , so okay , let 's talk about uh maybe first uh for the prototype . user interface : mm , okay . project manager : so i handle to user interface : i 've done a presentation , but it pretty much covers work that we 've both done , so if i 'm missing anything , christine can just correct me . project manager : so shall i go to sorry . industrial designer : uh thank you , so you did a powerpoint presentation , good for you . project manager : yep . s okay , let 's go to ami . user interface : it 's not the biggest powerpoint presentation in the world , but industrial designer : marketing : project manager : so in two or three or industrial designer : user interface : three . um . no it 's marketing : probably . technical pa i would think . user interface : think it 's the last one . no , then this is the la yeah , that one , final design . project manager : yeah . user interface : it is named appropriately , you just could n't see the name . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : um okay , can i have the mouse ? thanks . alright , so from when we were discussing specifying the case in the last meeting , we decided that we wanted an ergonomic shape , the material that we chose was wood , and uh the colour would be customisable , 'cause you can stain the wood whatever colour . um , so in terms of function , you have to be able to turn the tv on and off , volume and channel control , menu control , voice recognition control , and we 've incorporated the lcd screen on the flip panel as part of the design , if we figure out it 's too expensive , well then you just take it off . um , so to unveil our lovely product . this is our remote control , with the flip panel as you can see . marketing : user interface : so if you lift up the panel , you can see the lovely yellow lcd display . um , this is actually hard to do . the yellow button you have is the on off button , so it 's really big , hard to miss . you have the the red um triangles are the toggles for changing the volume . so up volume up , down volume down . the green are the channel changing . s and it 's one of those very light , very touchable displays . and then you have the numeric pad in the dark blue at the bottom , and on the right-hand side you have the access to the menu on the tv , and on the left-hand side you have the the the ability to turn off the voice recognition . so this is pretty much what we had on the white board the last time . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and uh i could user interface : oh yes . industrial designer : yeah the d </s>
<s> what did the group determine on the evaluation criteria of the detailed design ? </s> industrial designer : we have n't um uh specified where the speaker or the microphone will be placed . that depends on the uh s design of the circuit board inside and uh what room is left um user interface : yeah . project manager : i think the microphone is on on the top , uh on the middle , the under the flip . industrial designer : yes , okay . uh-huh . project manager : so that will be the safe , so p any the chip it 's not on the chip because you need to have microphone to industrial designer : no , i mean it depends on the design of the circuit board . user interface : but it should n't be under the flip either , because you can have the remote control closed , but you still might want to activate it by voice . project manager : uh it 's it 's yeah , but uh uh my opinion i think it 's better under the flip because whenever you want to uh the talk , okay , so then you can speak then you can close it . but if you put it on the on the flip , okay , then uh technical i do n't think it 's uh feasible , 'cause most of the time you speak then it will be recognised . user interface : but if you 've already got the remote control in your hand you need to open the flip to use the voice , why use the voice , why not just use your hand ? i mean the whole point of the voice is that if the remote control is sitting there and i 'm too lazy to reach over and pick it up , i can just use my voice . industrial designer : maybe i 've got my hand in the popcorn bowl and i 'm holding my cup of coca-cola in the other hand . user interface : yeah . and you do n't wan na let go of either one . marketing : i do n't wan na say . louder . yeah . user interface : i mean it does n't have to be on the flip , it can be on the side somewhere . marketing : can also be on the side . project manager : yeah , the sides maybe is good . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so , i mean i can pass this around if anyone wants to project manager : yes . so it 's maybe good idea . industrial designer : yeah , y better you pass it around with a napkin . user interface : marketing : no , because y you can easily put a microphone on the side that would have no problem would have n't been not be damaged or anything , and it 'd be accessible all the time to voice . user interface : yeah . project manager : yes . yeah . user interface : yeah , exactly . marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's maybe good idea . s s industrial designer : it 's um it 's um marketing : compliments to the artist . industrial designer : you need to work on the weight a little bit . marketing : uh . project manager : okay . s i 'm fine , i 'm satisfi user interface : and maybe the shape of the buttons , project manager : i 'm satisfied . user interface : the little egg shapes are n't the most economical , but industrial designer : we 're glad you 're satisfied . project manager : of course it 's it 's it 's looks more heo heavy , but i think when it 's completely maybe it 's a less weight . user interface : yeah . i mean this is plasticene . there 's only so much you can do . we could have possibly made it a lot thinner as well . but and part of the thing is m a lot of people say that they do n't like something that 's too light , because they do n't feel like they have enough control over it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so i mean maybe this is excessively heavy , but i think it needs to have some weight , it needs to feel like you 're still holding something . so that 's pretty much it for our presentation actually . project manager : that 's your uh prototype model ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , that 's good , thank you very much . marketing : project manager : so any comments or uh marketing : well , the prototype is is very well within the design and ideas that we 've we 've talked about on the previous meetings . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about product evaluation ? </s> user interface : what turnaround time do we have ? 'cause i mean production evaluation can be very very quick or very very long . project manager : oh but yes it 's it 's very quick , of course . it will uh come back in two weeks , okay , it will be ready in two weeks . industrial designer : works for me . project manager : for evaluation , okay . industrial designer : prototypes , you mean . project manager : yes , the prototype uh prototype product evaluation . industrial designer : in um we probably should do some market tests uh once we have the prototypes and do some orders and things like that and test-market it . project manager : yes . yes . yes . marketing : well , obviously . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm that 'd have to be thrown out on the market for people to get an idea , project manager : so you can take a minimum two weeks to a maximum four weeks . marketing : to see get get their user interface : mm-hmm . think minimum two weeks if we 're gon na develop prototypes and then try to take them to different places and see how people use project manager : yeah . user interface : it 's not a trivial task . project manager : yeah , because we we are not going to do it in uh our factory , okay , so we can give it a product evalua user interface : no no . we definitely should n't do it in our factory . project manager : yes , yes . industrial designer : project manager : so we 'll do it in the other place , and i do n't think it 's take more than four weeks time . or uh okay , so then the real production we will start once we product evaluation , okay , then uh it 's approve from uh the technical team and uh your team , okay , uh from the management , then we can launch in the market . hm ? industrial designer : any outstanding ? project manager : s any any other uh questions or uh comments to be discuss ? industrial designer : no , i 'm user interface : what ab industrial designer : go ahead . marketing : i think we pretty much covered everything . project manager : okay , so then uh industrial designer : did you have something ? user interface : well i was just wondering about if we 're gon na do a product evaluation then what about time for redesign if the users come back and tell us no this is bad , this is bad , we want this done differently . project manager : okay uh , let 's take like this . let 's proceed with this model , okay , for the for the marketing direction , okay . industrial designer : project manager : so no more changes will be made , okay , in this the basic design . okay ? so we will introduce m this model and uh let 's introduce in the market and let 's take the feedback from the customers , then we can uh go for the industrial designer : second generation . project manager : second generation . user interface : project manager : okay . there 's no end , there 's not limit . industrial designer : user interface : the problem is there might not be a second generation if the first generation flops for some silly reason that we have n't thought of . project manager : every every custom industrial designer : marketing : well , then it may not be . project manager : okay . well , every customer , okay , they have their own ideas , they have their own test , okay , so there 's no end , there 's no limit . marketing : like people do n't like wood . user interface : no , but there 's a difference between releasing a product that has been minimally tested and fine-tuned to suit a general range of requirements versus releasing a product that we think will work but we do n't really have anything to back it up . marketing : very specific . project manager : yeah , so that 's the reason you are here for uh the design , okay , i hope you made a good design . user interface : yes , but i 'm not everybody . industrial designer : user interface : i mean the whole point of user evaluation is to see what real people need . we have our own motivations in mind , we have our own ideas in mind , but that does n't mean that that 's what 's gon na sell . project manager : yeah , but uh see , we ought to take a few considerations , okay , one is the price consideration , one is future consideration , okay , like uh you can eat uh you can all eat more chi i can eat more chilli , okay , so i it 's a depends on the individual taste , you know , industrial designer : project manager : so we have we have to balance somewhere . user interface : yeah , of course . i 'm just trying to point out that i think that your evaluation and redesign turnaround time is too short well you have no redesign not you personally , but in the project we have no redesign time and industrial designer : our project does n't um project manager : yeah . industrial designer : ed , d do you know what season of the year or time of the year is the most important for tv remote control sales ? would it be the christmas season by any chance ? project manager : the sports time . industrial designer : sports season . which sport season ? marketing : right before the eur the world cup . world soccer . world cup soccer , project manager : football . industrial designer : so so user interface : yeah . marketing : they need those things that they have their hands g occupied and they need to be able to talk to the con remote control . project manager : football . industrial designer : maybe what user interface : industrial designer : so i think what we need to do is perhaps to synchronise the final the the launch of a user-tested device with some special event . marketing : project manager : yes . yes . industrial designer : and and then um user interface : yeah , that 's a good idea . industrial designer : so that gives us a little more time perhaps then we anticipated , because i do n't know when the world cup is , but i 'm sure there 's gon na be one . marketing : or any major sports . industrial designer : or another m major sports event . probably not the um the football games coming up the end of january . i think that might be a little too aggressive um , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but , so , i 'm just ig uh pointing out a uh a strategy to uh do some additional user testing project manager : research . industrial designer : pri and then to launch um at a a major sports event user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or uh perhaps to uh also user interface : that 's actually good place to advertise it too . industrial designer : and to work with motion pictures . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : there might be some motion pictures that are coming out um that are coming out on d_v_d_ that uh they need to have a m special remote control to work with it , so we could maybe work out a campaign with uh with sony pictures for example . maybe some management has got uh relationships there we can leverage . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yes , the that of course uh i will convince the management to do that , okay . </s>
<s> why did user interface disagree when talking about the redesign after product evaluation ? </s> user interface : well i was just wondering about if we 're gon na do a product evaluation then what about time for redesign if the users come back and tell us no this is bad , this is bad , we want this done differently . project manager : okay uh , let 's take like this . let 's proceed with this model , okay , for the for the marketing direction , okay . industrial designer : project manager : so no more changes will be made , okay , in this the basic design . okay ? so we will introduce m this model and uh let 's introduce in the market and let 's take the feedback from the customers , then we can uh go for the industrial designer : second generation . project manager : second generation . user interface : project manager : okay . there 's no end , there 's not limit . industrial designer : user interface : the problem is there might not be a second generation if the first generation flops for some silly reason that we have n't thought of . project manager : every every custom industrial designer : marketing : well , then it may not be . project manager : okay . well , every customer , okay , they have their own ideas , they have their own test , okay , so there 's no end , there 's no limit . marketing : like people do n't like wood . user interface : no , but there 's a difference between releasing a product that has been minimally tested and fine-tuned to suit a general range of requirements versus releasing a product that we think will work but we do n't really have anything to back it up . marketing : very specific . project manager : yeah , so that 's the reason you are here for uh the design , okay , i hope you made a good design . user interface : yes , but i 'm not everybody . industrial designer : user interface : i mean the whole point of user evaluation is to see what real people need . we have our own motivations in mind , we have our own ideas in mind , but that does n't mean that that 's what 's gon na sell . project manager : yeah , but uh see , we ought to take a few considerations , okay , one is the price consideration , one is future consideration , okay , like uh you can eat uh you can all eat more chi i can eat more chilli , okay , so i it 's a depends on the individual taste , you know , industrial designer : project manager : so we have we have to balance somewhere . user interface : yeah , of course . i 'm just trying to point out that i think that your evaluation and redesign turnaround time is too short well you have no redesign not you personally , but in the project we have no redesign time and industrial designer : our project does n't um project manager : yeah . user interface : a lot of products have gone out there without being properly user-tested and completely flopped , when in fact it gets re-released a few years down the line with proper testing and it takes off like crazy . industrial designer : disposable diapers is an example of that in fact . user interface : really ? industrial designer : yes , it is one of the first consumer products that was launched about thirty years that was a disposable consumer product , user interface : that i did n't know . industrial designer : and uh people the market had n't really gotten on to the concept that you could use something and then throw it away , 'cause it was n't uh user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but then when they re-launched them thirty years later , they were virtually the same design , project manager : . industrial designer : but people had gotten the throw-away , you know , paper cups and napki y all kinds of things that they had n't um so , you 're right , timing is very important , user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but i think we 've got a good product . project manager : that 's the reason ed is here . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think he can promote the the brand value and the product value . industrial designer : that 's right . it 's gon na be very important to the company . project manager : yes . we are behind the scene and he is the front screen , so . he 's on the big screen . marketing : yeah , i 'm the one who takes the heat . user interface : exactly . industrial designer : good luck , ed . marketing : if it 's a flop , it 's the marketer . industrial designer : you look very relaxed , considering h you know , the uh the weight on your shoulders , yeah . marketing : yes . yes . stress . </s>
<s> what strategy did the group come up with for product evaluation ? </s> industrial designer : ed , d do you know what season of the year or time of the year is the most important for tv remote control sales ? would it be the christmas season by any chance ? project manager : the sports time . industrial designer : sports season . which sport season ? marketing : right before the eur the world cup . world soccer . world cup soccer , project manager : football . industrial designer : so so user interface : yeah . marketing : they need those things that they have their hands g occupied and they need to be able to talk to the con remote control . project manager : football . industrial designer : maybe what user interface : industrial designer : so i think what we need to do is perhaps to synchronise the final the the launch of a user-tested device with some special event . marketing : project manager : yes . yes . industrial designer : and and then um user interface : yeah , that 's a good idea . industrial designer : so that gives us a little more time perhaps then we anticipated , because i do n't know when the world cup is , but i 'm sure there 's gon na be one . marketing : or any major sports . industrial designer : or another m major sports event . probably not the um the football games coming up the end of january . i think that might be a little too aggressive um , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but , so , i 'm just ig uh pointing out a uh a strategy to uh do some additional user testing project manager : research . industrial designer : pri and then to launch um at a a major sports event user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or uh perhaps to uh also user interface : that 's actually good place to advertise it too . industrial designer : and to work with motion pictures . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : there might be some motion pictures that are coming out um that are coming out on d_v_d_ that uh they need to have a m special remote control to work with it , so we could maybe work out a campaign with uh with sony pictures for example . maybe some management has got uh relationships there we can leverage . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yes , the that of course uh i will convince the management to do that , okay . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd b : ok . we 're on . grad e : hello ? professor a : ok , so uh had some interesting mail from uh dan ellis . actually , i think he he redirected it to everybody also so uh the pda mikes uh have a big bunch of energy at at uh five hertz uh where this came up was that uh i was showing off these wave forms that we have on the web and and uh i just sort of had n't noticed this , but that the major , major component in the wave in the second wave form in that pair of wave forms is actually the air conditioner . so . so . i i have to be more careful about using that as a as a as a good illustration , uh , in fact it 's not , of uh of the effects of room reverberation . it is is n't a bad illustration of the effects of uh room noise . on on uh some mikes uh but so . and then we had this other discussion about um whether this affects the dynamic range , cuz i know , although we start off with thirty two bits , you end up with uh sixteen bits and you know , are we getting hurt there ? but uh dan is pretty confident that we 're not , that that quantization error is not is still not a significant factor there . so . so there was a question of whether we should change things here , whether we should change a capacitor on the input box for that or whether we should phd b : yeah , he suggested a smaller capacitor , right ? professor a : right . but then i had some other uh thing discussions with him phd b : for the p d professor a : and the feeling was once we start monk monkeying with that , uh , many other problems could ha happen . and additionally we we already have a lot of data that 's been collected with that , so . phd b : yeah . professor a : a simple thing to do is he he he has a i forget if it this was in that mail or in the following mail , but he has a a simple filter , a digital filter that he suggested . we just run over the data before we deal with it . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : um the other thing that i do n't know the answer to , but when people are using feacalc here , uh whether they 're using it with the high - pass filter option or not . and i do n't know if anybody knows . grad e : um . i could go check . professor a : but . yeah . so when we 're doing all these things using our software there is um if it 's if it 's based on the rasta - plp program , which does both plp and rasta - plp um then uh there is an option there which then comes up through to feacalc which um allows you to do high - pass filtering and in general we like to do that , because of things like this and it 's it 's pretty it 's not a very severe filter . does n't affect speech frequencies , even pretty low speech frequencies , at all , but it 's phd b : what 's the cut - off frequency it used ? professor a : oh . i do n't know i wrote this a while ago phd b : is it like twenty ? professor a : something like that . phd b : yeah . professor a : yeah . i mean i think there 's some effect above twenty but it 's it 's it 's it 's mild . so , i mean it probably there 's probably some effect up to a hundred hertz or something but it 's it 's pretty mild . i do n't know in the in the strut implementation of the stuff is there a high - pass filter or a pre pre - emphasis or something in the phd f : uh . i think we use a pre - emphasis . yeah . yeah . professor a : so . we we we want to go and check that in i for anything that we 're going to use the p d a mike for . uh he says that there 's a pretty good roll off in the pzm mikes so we do n't need need to worry about them one way or the other but if we do make use of the cheap mikes , uh we want to be sure to do that that filtering before we process it . and then again if it 's uh depending on the option that the our our software is being run with , it 's it 's quite possible that 's already being taken care of . uh but i also have to pick a different picture to show the effects of reverberation . uh phd b : did somebody notice it during your talk ? professor a : uh no . well . uh well . if they made output they were they were , you know they were nice . phd b : did n't say anything ? professor a : but . i mean the thing is it was since i was talking about reverberation and showing this thing that was noise , it was n't a good match , but it certainly was still uh an indication of the fact that you get noise with distant mikes . uh it 's just not a great example because not only is n't it reverberation but it 's a noise that we definitely know what to do . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : so , i mean , it does n't take deep a new bold new methods to get rid of uh five hertz noise , so . phd b : yeah . professor a : um uh but . so it was it was a bad example in that way , but it 's it still is it 's the real thing that we did get out of the microphone at distance , so it was n't it w it w was n't wrong it was inappropriate . so . so uh , but uh , yeah , someone noticed it later pointed it out to me , and i went `` oh , man . why did n't i notice that ? `` um . so . um so i think we 'll change our our picture on the web , when we 're @ @ . one of the things i was i mean , i was trying to think about what what 's the best way to show the difference an and i had a couple of thoughts one was , that spectrogram that we show is o k , but the thing is the eyes uh and the the brain behind them are so good at picking out patterns from from noise that in first glance you look at them it does n't seem like it 's that bad uh because there 's many features that are still preserved . so one thing to do might be to just take a piece of the spec uh of the spectrogram where you can see that something looks different , an and blow it up , and have that be the part that 's just to show as well . you know . phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : i i some things are going to be hurt . um another , i was thinking of was um taking some spectral slices , like uh like we look at with the recognizer , and look at the spectrum or cepstrum that you get out of there , and the the uh , um , the reverberation uh does make it does change that . and so maybe maybe that would be more obvious . grad c : spectral slices ? professor a : yeah . grad c : w w what d what do you mean ? professor a : well , i mean um all the recognizers look at frames . so they they look at phd b : so like one instant in time . professor a : yeah , look at a so it 's , yeah , at one point in time or uh twenty over twenty milliseconds or something , you have a spectrum or a cepstrum . that 's what i meant by a slice . grad c : i see . professor a : yeah . and if you look at phd b : you could just you could just throw up , you know , uh the uh some mfcc feature vectors . you know , one from one , one from the other , and then , you know , you can look and see how different the numbers are . professor a : right . well , that 's why i saying either well , either spectrum or cepstrum phd b : i 'm just kidding . professor a : but but i think the thing is you wan na phd b : i do n't mean a graph . i mean the actual numbers . professor a : oh . i see . oh . that would be lovely , yeah . phd b : yeah . `` see how different these sequences of numbers are ? `` professor a : yeah . or i could just add them up and get a different total . phd b : yeah . it 's not the square . professor a : ok . uh . what else wh what 's what else is going on ? phd f : uh , yeah . yeah , at first i had a remark why i am wondering why the pda is always so far . i mean we are always meeting at the beginning of the table and the pda 's there . professor a : uh . i guess cuz we have n't wanted to move it . we we could we could move us , phd f : yeah ? grad e : that 's right . phd f : well , anyway . um . yeah , so . uh . since the last meeting we 've we 've tried to put together um the clean low - pass um downsampling , upsampling , i mean , uh the new filter that 's replacing the lda filters , and also the um delay issue so that we considered th the the delay issue on the for the on - line normalization . mmm . so we 've put together all this and then we have results that are not um very impressive . well , there is no real improvement . professor a : but it 's not wer worse and it 's better better latency , phd f : it 's not professor a : right ? phd f : yeah . yeah . well . actually it 's better . it seems better when we look at the mismatched case but i think we are like like cheated here by the th this problem that uh in some cases when you modify slight slightly modify the initial condition you end up completely somewhere air somewhere else in the in the space , the parameters . professor a : yeah . phd f : so . well . the other system are for instance . for italian is at seventy - eight percent recognition rate on the mismatch , and this new system has eighty - nine . but i do n't think it indicates something , really . i do n't i do n't think it means that the new system is more robust professor a : uh - huh . phd f : or it 's simply the fact that well . professor a : well , the test would be if you then tried it on one of the other test sets , if if it was right . so this was italian , right ? phd f : yeah . yeah . professor a : so then if you take your changes phd f : it 's similar for other test sets professor a : and then phd f : but i mean from this se seventy - eight um percent recognition rate system , i could change the transition probabilities for the the first hmm and it will end up to eighty - nine also . professor a : uh - huh . phd f : by using point five instead of point six , point four as in the the htk script . professor a : uh - huh . yeah . phd f : so . well . that 's phd b : yeah . yeah i looked at um looked at the results when stephane did that phd f : well . eh uh phd b : and it 's it 's really wo really happens . phd f : this really happens . phd b : i mean th the only difference is you change the self - loop transition probability by a tenth of a percent phd f : yeah . professor a : yeah . phd b : and it causes ten percent difference in the word error rate . professor a : a tenth of a per cent . phd b : yeah . from point phd f : even tenth of a percent ? phd b : i i 'm sorry phd f : well , we tried we tried point one , phd b : f for point from you change at point one phd f : yeah . phd b : and n not tenth of a percent , one tenth , professor a : yeah . phd b : alright ? um so from point five so from point six to point five and you get ten percent better . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : and it 's i think it 's what you basically hypothesized in the last meeting about uh it just being very phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : and i think you mentioned this in your email too it 's just very um phd f : mmm , yeah . phd b : you know get stuck in some local minimum and this thing throws you out of it i guess . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : well , what 's what are according to the rules what what are we supposed to do about the transition probabilities ? are they supposed to be point five or point six ? phd b : i think you 're not allowed to yeah . that 's supposed to be point six , for the self - loop . phd f : yeah . professor a : point it 's supposed to be point six . phd b : yeah . but changing it to point five i think is which gives you much better results , but that 's not allowed . professor a : but not allowed ? yeah . ok . phd b : yeah . phd f : yeah , but even if you use point five , i 'm not sure it will always give you the better results phd b : yeah . phd f : on other test set or it phd b : right . we only tested it on the the medium mismatch , phd f : on the other training set , i mean . phd b : right ? you said on the other cases you did n't notice phd f : yeah . but . i think , yeah . i think the reason is , yeah , i not i it was in my mail i think also , is the fact that the mismatch is trained only on the far microphone . well , in for the mismatched case everything is um using the far microphone training and testing , whereas for the highly mismatched , training is done on the close microphone so it 's it 's clean speech basically so you do n't have this problem of local minima probably and for the well - match , it 's a mix of close microphone and distant microphone and well . phd b : i did notice uh something phd f : so th i think the mismatch is the more difficult for the training part . phd b : somebody , i think it was morgan , suggested at the last meeting that i actually count to see how many parameters and how many frames . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : and there are uh almost one point eight million frames of training data and less than forty thousand parameters in the baseline system . phd f : yeah . phd b : so it 's very , very few parameters compared to how much training data . professor a : well . yes . phd d : mm - hmm . professor a : so . and that that says that we could have lots more parameters actually . phd b : yeah . yeah . phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : i did one quick experiment just to make sure i had everything worked out and i just uh f for most of the um for for all of the digit models , they end up at three mixtures per state . and so i just did a quick experiment , where i changed it so it went to four and um it it it did n't have a r any significant effect at the uh medium mismatch and high mismatch cases and it had it was just barely significant for the well - matched better . uh so i 'm r gon na run that again but um with many more uh mixtures per state . professor a : yeah . cuz at forty thou i mean you could you could have uh yeah , easily four times as many parameters . phd b : mm - hmm . and i think also just seeing what we saw uh in terms of the expected duration of the silence model ? when we did this tweaking of the self - loop ? the silence model expected duration was really different . phd f : yeah . phd b : and so in the case where um it had a better score , the silence model expected duration was much longer . phd f : yeah . phd b : so it was like it was a better match . i think you know if we make a better silence model i think that will help a lot too um for a lot of these cases so but one one thing i i wanted to check out before i increased the um number of mixtures per state was uh in their default training script they do an initial set of three re - estimations and then they built the silence model and then they do seven iterations then the add mixtures and they do another seven then they add mixtures then they do a final set of seven and they quit . seven seems like a lot to me and it also makes the experiments go take a really long time i mean to do one turn - around of the well matched case takes like a day . professor a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd b : and so you know in trying to run these experiments i notice , you know , it 's difficult to find machines , you know , compute the run on . and so one of the things i did was i compiled htk for the linux machines professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : cuz we have this one from ibm that 's got like five processors in it ? professor a : right . phd b : and so now i 'm you can run stuff on that and that really helps a lot because now we 've got you know , extra machines that we can use for compute . and if i 'm do running an experiment right now where i 'm changing the number of iterations ? from seven to three ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor a : yeah . phd b : just to see how it affects the baseline system . and so if we can get away with just doing three , we can do many more experiments more quickly . and if it 's not a a huge difference from running with seven iterations , um , you know , we should be able to get a lot more experiments done . and so . i 'll let you know what what happens with that . but if we can you know , run all of these back - ends f with many fewer iterations and on linux boxes we should be able to get a lot more experimenting done . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : so . so i wanted to experiment with cutting down the number of iterations before i increased the number of gaussians . professor a : right . sorry . so um , how 's it going on the so . you you did some things . they did n't improve things in a way that convinced you you 'd substantially improved anything . phd f : yeah . professor a : but they 're not making things worse and we have reduced latency , right ? phd f : yeah . but actually um actually it seems to do a little bit worse for the well - matched case and we just noticed that yeah , actually the way the final score is computed is quite funny . it 's not a mean of word error rate . it 's not a weighted mean of word error rate , it 's a weighted mean of improvements . professor a : uh - huh . phd f : so . which means that actually the weight on the well - matched is well i well what what what happened is that if you have a small improvement or a small if on the well - matched case it will have uh huge influence on the improvement compared to the reference because the reference system is is is quite good for for the well - ma well - matched case also . phd b : so it it weights the improvement on the well - matched case really heavily compared to the improvement on the other cases ? phd f : no , but it 's the weighting of the of the improvement not of the error rate . phd b : yeah . yeah , and it 's hard to improve on the on the best case , cuz it 's already so good , right ? phd f : yeah but what i mean is that you can have a huge improvement on the h hmk 's , uh like five percent uh absolute , and this will not affect the final score almost uh this will almost not affect the final score because this improvement because the improvement uh relative to the the baseline is small professor a : so they do improvement in terms of uh accuracy ? rather than word error rate ? phd f : uh . uh improvement ? professor a : so phd f : no , it 's compared to the word er it 's improvement on the word error rate , yeah . sorry . professor a : so if you have uh ten percent error and you get five percent absolute uh improvement then that 's fifty percent . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : ok . so what you 're saying then is that if it 's something that has a small word error rate , then uh a even a relatively small improvement on it , in absolute terms , will show up as quite quite large in this . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : is that what you 're saying ? phd f : yeah . yeah . professor a : ok . but yeah that 's that 's it 's the notion of relative improvement . word error rate . phd f : yeah . sure , but when we think about the weighting , which is point five , point three , point two , it 's on absolute on on relative figures , professor a : yeah . phd f : not professor a : yeah . phd f : so when we look at this error rate professor a : no . that 's why i 've been saying we should be looking at word error rate uh and and not not at at accuracies . phd f : uh mmm , yeah . mmm , yeah . professor a : it 's phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : i mean uh we probably should have standardized on that all the way through . it 's just phd b : well . phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : i mean , it 's not it 's not that different , right ? i mean , just subtract the accuracy . professor a : yeah but you 're but when you look at the numbers , your sense of the relative size of things is quite different . phd b : i mean oh . oh , i see . yeah . professor a : if you had ninety percent uh correct and five percent , five over ninety does n't look like it 's a big difference , but five over ten is is big . phd b : mm - hmm . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : so just when we were looking at a lot of numbers and getting sense of what was important . phd b : i see . i see . yeah . that makes sense . phd f : well anyway uh . so . yeah . so it hurts a little bit on the well - match and yeah . professor a : what 's a little bit ? like phd f : like , it 's difficult to say because again um i 'm not sure i have the um phd b : hey morgan ? do you remember that signif program that we used to use for testing signi ? is that still valid ? i i 've been using that . professor a : yeah . yeah , it was actually updated . uh . jeff updated it some years ago phd b : oh , it was . oh , i shoul professor a : and and uh cleaned it up made some things better in it . so . phd b : ok . i should find that new one . i just use my old one from ninety - two or whatever professor a : yeah , i 'm sure it 's not that different but but he he uh he was a little more rigorous , as i recall . phd f : right . so it 's around , like , point five . no , point six { comment } uh percent absolute on italian professor a : worse . phd f : worse , yep . professor a : out of what ? i mean . s phd f : uh well we start from ninety - four point sixty - four , and we go to ninety - four point o four . professor a : uh - huh . so that 's six six point th phd b : ninety - three point six four , right ? is the baseline . phd f : oh , no , i 've ninety - four . oh , the baseline , you mean . phd b : yeah . phd f : well i do n't i 'm not talking about the baseline here . phd b : oh . oh . i 'm sorry . phd f : i uh my baseline is the submitted system . phd b : ah ! ok . ah , ah . professor a : yeah . phd b : sorry . phd f : oh yeah . for finnish , we start to ninety - three point eight - four and we go to ninety - three point seventy - four . and for spanish we are we were at ninety - five point o five and we go to ninety - three - s point sixty one . professor a : ok , so we are getting hurt somewhat . and is that wh what do you know what piece you 've done several changes here . uh , do you know what pie phd f : yeah . i guess i guess it 's it 's the filter . because nnn , well uh we do n't have complete result , but the filter so the filter with the shorter delay hurts on italian well - matched , which and , yeah . and the other things , like um downsampling , upsampling , do n't seem to hurt and the new on - line normalization , neither . phd b : i 'm i 'm really confused about something . if we saw that making a small change like , you know , a tenth , to the self - loop had a huge effect , can we really make any conclusions about differences in this stuff ? phd f : mm - hmm . yeah that 's th yeah . phd b : i mean , especially when they 're this small . i mean . phd f : i think we can be completely fooled by this thing , but i do n't know . professor a : well , yeah . phd f : so . there is first this thing , and then the yeah , i computed the um like , the confidence level on the different test sets . and for the well - matched they are around um point six uh percent . for the mismatched they are around like let 's say one point five percent . and for the well - m uh hm they are also around one point five . professor a : but ok , so you these these degradations you were talking about were on the well - matched case uh . do the does the new filter make things uh better or worse for the other cases ? phd f : yeah . but . uh . about the same . it does n't hurt . yeah . professor a : does n't hurt , but does n't get a little better , or something . no . ok , so um i guess the argument one might make is that , `` yeah , if you looked at one of these cases and you jiggle something and it changes then uh you 're not quite sure what to make of it . but when you look across a bunch of these and there 's some some pattern , um i mean , so eh h here 's all the if if in all these different cases it never gets better , and there 's significant number of cases where it gets worse , then you 're probably hurting things , i would say . so um i mean at the very least that would be a reasonably prediction of what would happen with with a different test set , that you 're not jiggling things with . so i guess the question is if you can do better than this . if you can if we can approximate the old numbers while still keeping the latency down . phd f : mmm . yeah . professor a : uh , so . um . what i was asking , though , is uh are what 's what 's the level of communication with uh the o g i gang now , about this and phd f : well , we are exchanging mail as soon as we we have significant results . professor a : yeah . phd f : um . yeah . for the moment , they are working on integrating the um spectral subtraction apparently from ericsson . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : um . yeah . and so . yeah . we are working on our side on other things like uh also trying a sup spectral subtraction but of of our own , i mean , another spectral substraction . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : um . yeah . so i think it 's it 's ok . it 's going professor a : is there any further discussion about this this idea of of having some sort of source code control ? phd f : yeah . well . for the moment they 're uh everybody 's quite um there is this eurospeech deadline , so . professor a : i see . phd f : um . and . yeah . but yeah . as soon as we have something that 's significant and that 's better than than what was submitted , we will fix fix the system and but we 've not discussed it it it this yet , yeah . professor a : yeah . sounds like a great idea but but i think that that um he 's saying people are sort of scrambling for a eurospeech deadline . but that 'll be uh , uh done in a week . so , maybe after this next one . phd f : yeah . phd b : wow ! already a week ! man ! professor a : yeah . phd b : you 're right . that 's amazing . professor a : yeah . anybo - anybody in the in this group do doing anything for eurospeech ? or , is that what is that phd f : yeah we are we are trying to to do something with the meeting recorder digits , professor a : right . phd f : and but yeah . yeah . and the good thing is that there is this first deadline , professor a : yeah . phd f : and , well , some people from ogi are working on a paper for this , but there is also the um special session about th aurora which is uh which has an extended deadline . so . the deadline is in may . professor a : for uh oh , for eurospeech ? phd f : for th yeah . so f only for the experiments on aurora . so it it 's good , professor a : oh , a special dispensation . phd f : yeah . professor a : that 's great . phd b : mm - hmm . where is eurospeech this year ? phd f : it 's in denmark . professor a : aalborg aalborg uh so the deadline when 's the deadline ? when 's the deadline ? phd f : hmm ? i think it 's the thirteenth of may . professor a : that 's great ! it 's great . so we should definitely get something in for that . phd f : yeah . professor a : but on meeting digits , maybe there 's maybe . phd f : yeah . professor a : maybe . phd f : so it would be for the first deadline . professor a : yeah . yeah . so , i mean , i i think that you could certainly start looking at at the issue uh but but uh i think it 's probably , on s from what stephane is saying , it 's it 's unlikely to get sort of active participation from the two sides until after they 've phd b : well i could at least well , i 'm going to be out next week but i could try to look into like this uh cvs over the web . that seems to be a very popular way of people distributing changes and over , you know , multiple sites and things professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : so maybe if i can figure out how do that easily and then pass the information on to everybody so that it 's you know , as easy to do as possible and and people do n't it wo n't interfere with { comment } their regular work , then maybe that would be good . and i think we could use it for other things around here too . so . professor a : good . grad c : that 's cool . and if you 're interested in using cvs , i 've set it up here , phd b : oh great . i used it a long time ago but it 's been a while so maybe i can ask you some questions . grad c : oh . so . i 'll be away tomorrow and monday but i 'll be back on tuesday or wednesday . professor a : yeah . dave , the other thing , actually , is is this business about this wave form . maybe you and i can talk a little bit at some point about coming up with a better uh demonstration of the effects of reverberation for our web page , cuz uh the uh um i mean , actually the the uh it made a good good audio demonstration because when we could play that clip the the the really obvious difference is that you can hear two voices and in the second one and only hear phd b : maybe we could just like , talk into a cup . professor a : yeah . phd b : some good reverb . professor a : no , i mean , it sound it sounds pretty reverberant , but i mean you ca n't when you play it back in a room with a you know a big room , nobody can hear that difference really . grad c : yeah . professor a : they hear that it 's lower amplitude and they hear there 's a second voice , grad c : uh - huh . professor a : um but uh that actually that makes for a perfectly good demo because that 's a real obvious thing , that you hear two voices . phd b : but not of reverberation . professor a : yeah . grad c : a boom . professor a : well that that that 's ok . but for the the visual , just , you know , i 'd like to have uh uh , you know , the spectrogram again , grad c : yeah . professor a : because you 're you 're you 're visual uh abilities as a human being are so good you can pick out you know , you you look at the good one , you look at the cru the screwed up one , and and you can see the features in it without trying to @ @ phd b : i noticed that in the pictures . professor a : yeah . phd b : i thought `` hey , you know th `` i my initial thought was `` this is not too bad ! `` professor a : right . but you have to you know , if you look at it closely , you see `` well , here 's a place where this one has a big formant uh uh formant maj major formants here are are moving quite a bit . `` and then you look in the other one and they look practically flat . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : so i mean you could that 's why i was thinking , in a section like that , you could take a look look at just that part of the spectrogram and you could say `` oh yeah . this this really distorted it quite a bit . `` phd b : yeah . the main thing that struck me in looking at those two spectrograms was the difference in the high frequencies . it looked like for the one that was farther away , you know , it really everything was attenuated professor a : right . phd b : and i mean that was the main visual thing that i noticed . professor a : right . but it 's it 's uh so . yeah . so there are clearly are spectral effects . since you 're getting all this indirect energy , then a lot of it does have have uh reduced high frequencies . but um the other thing is the temporal courses of things really are changed , and and uh we want to show that , in some obvious way . the reason i put the wave forms in there was because uh they they do look quite different . uh . and so i thought `` oh , this is good . `` but i i just uh after after uh they were put in there i did n't really look at them anymore , cuz i just they were different . so i want something that has a is a more interesting explanation for why they 're different . um . grad c : oh . so maybe we can just substitute one of these wave forms and um then do some kind of zoom in on the spectrogram on an interesting area . professor a : something like that . yeah . grad c : uh - huh . professor a : the other thing that we had in there that i did n't like was that um the most obvious characteristic of the difference uh when you listen to it is that there 's a second voice , and the the the the the uh cuts that we have there actually do n't correspond to the full wave form . it 's just the first i think there was something where he was having some trouble getting so much in , or . i i forget the reason behind it . but it it 's um it 's the first six seconds or something of it and it 's in the seventh or eighth second or something where @ @ the second voice comes in . so we we would like to actually see the voice coming in , too , i think , since that 's the most obvious thing when you listen to it . grad c : mm - hmm . professor a : so . um . phd f : uh , yeah . yeah . i brought some i do n't know if some figures here . well . i start we started to work on spectral subtraction . and um the preliminary results were very bad . professor a : uh - huh . phd f : so the thing that we did is just to add spectral subtraction before this , the wall uh process , which contains lda on - line normalization . and it hurts uh a lot . professor a : uh - huh . phd f : and so we started to look at at um things like this , which is , well , it 's yeah . so you have the c - zero parameters for one uh italian utterance . phd d : you can @ @ . phd f : and i plotted this for two channels . channel zero is the close mic microphone , and channel one is the distant microphone . and it 's perfectly synchronized , so . and the sentence contain only one word , which is `` due `` and it ca n't clearly be seen . where where is it ? professor a : uh - huh . phd f : where is the word ? phd b : this is this is , oh , a plot of c - zero , the energy . phd f : this is a plot of c - zero , uh when we do n't use spectral substraction , and when there is no on - line normalization . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : so . there is just some filtering with the lda and and some downsampling , upsampling . phd b : c - zero is the close talking ? uh the close channel ? phd f : yeah . yeah . phd b : and s channel one is the phd f : yeah . so c - zero is very clean , actually . phd b : yeah . phd f : uh then when we apply mean normalization it looks like the second figure , though it is not . which is good . well , the noise part is around zero professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : and and then the third figure is what happens when we apply mean normalization and variance normalization . so . what we can clearly see is that on the speech portion the two channel come becomes very close , but also what happens on the noisy portion is that the variance of the noise is professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : this is still being a plot of c - zero ? ok . phd f : yeah . this is still c - zero . phd b : can i ask um what does variance normalization do ? w what is the effect of that ? professor a : normalizes the variance . phd f : so it it yeah . phd b : i mean phd f : it normalized th the standard deviation . phd b : y yeah . phd f : so it phd b : no , i understand that , phd f : you you get an estimate of the standard deviation . phd b : but i mean phd f : that 's um phd b : no , i understand what it is , but i mean , what does it what 's what is phd f : yeah but . phd b : uh professor a : what 's the rationale ? phd b : we yeah . yeah . why why do it ? professor a : well , i mean , because everything uh if you have a system based on gaussians , everything is based on means and variances . phd b : yeah . professor a : so if there 's an overall reason you know , it 's like uh if you were doing uh image processing and in some of the pictures you were looking at , uh there was a lot of light uh and and in some , there was low light , phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : you know , you would want to adjust for that in order to compare things . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : and the variance is just sort of like the next moment , you know ? so uh what if um one set of pictures was taken uh so that throughout the course it was went through daylight and night uh um um ten times , another time it went thr i mean i is , you know , how how much how much vari phd b : oh , ok . professor a : or no . i guess a better example would be how much of the light was coming in from outside rather than artificial light . so if it was a lot if more was coming from outside , then there 'd be the bigger effect of the of the of the change in the so every mean every all all of the the parameters that you have , especially the variances , are going to be affected by the overall variance . phd b : oh , ok . uh - huh . professor a : and so , in principle , you if you remove that source , then , you know , you can phd b : i see . ok . so would the major effect is that you 're gon na get is by normalizing the means , professor a : that 's the first order but thing , phd b : but it may help first - order effects . professor a : but then the second order is is the variances phd b : and it may help to do the variance . ok . professor a : because , again , if you if you 're trying to distinguish between e and b if it just so happens that the e 's were a more you know , were recorded when when the energy was was was larger or something , phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : or the variation in it was larger , uh than with the b 's , then this will be give you some some bias . so the it 's removing these sources of variability in the data that have nothing to do with the linguistic component . phd b : gotcha . ok . sorry to interrupt . professor a : but the the uh but let me as ask ask you something . phd f : yep . and it and this professor a : i is if if you have a good voice activity detector , is n't is n't it gon na pull that out ? phd f : yeah . sure . if they are good . yeah . well what it it shows is that , yeah , perhaps a good voice activity detector is is good before on - line normalization and that 's what uh we 've already observed . but uh , yeah , voice activity detection is not an easy thing neither . phd b : but after you do this , after you do the variance normalization i mean . phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : i do n't know , it seems like this would be a lot easier than this signal to work with . phd f : yeah . so . what i notice is that , while i prefer to look at the second figure than at the third one , well , because you clearly see where speech is . professor a : yeah . phd b : yeah . phd f : but the problem is that on the speech portion , channel zero and channel one are more different than when you use variance normalization where channel zero and channel one become closer . professor a : right . phd b : but for the purposes of finding the speech phd f : and yeah , but here phd b : you 're more interested in the difference between the speech and the nonspeech , phd f : yeah . phd b : right ? phd f : yeah . so i think , yeah . for i th i think that it perhaps it shows that uh the parameters that the voice activity detector should use uh have to use should be different than the parameter that have to be used for speech recognition . professor a : yeah . so basically you want to reduce this effect . phd f : well , y professor a : so you can do that by doing the voi voice activity detection . you also could do it by spect uh spectral subtraction before the variance normalization , right ? phd f : yeah , but it 's not clear , yeah . professor a : so uh phd f : we so . well . it 's just to professor a : yeah . phd f : the the number that at that are here are recognition experiments on italian hm and mm with these two kinds of parameters . and , well , it 's better with variance normalization . professor a : yeah . yeah . so it does get better even though it looks ugly . phd f : uh professor a : ok . but does this have the voice activity detection in it ? phd f : yeah . phd b : where 's th phd f : but the fact is that the voice activity detector does n't work on channel one . so . yeah . professor a : uh - huh . phd b : where at what stage is the voice activity detector applied ? is it applied here or a after the variance normalization ? professor a : spectral subtraction , i guess . phd b : or phd f : it 's applied before variance normalization . so it 's a good thing , because i guess voice activity detection on this should could be worse . phd b : yeah . is it applied all the way back here ? phd f : it 's applied the um on , yeah , something like this , phd b : maybe that 's why it does n't work for channel one . phd f : yeah . perhaps , yeah . professor a : can i phd f : so we could perhaps do just mean normalization before vad . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : mm - hmm . can i ask a , i mean a sort of top - level question , which is um `` if if most of what the ogi folk are working with is trying to integrate this other other uh spectral subtraction , why are we worrying about it ? `` phd f : mm - hmm . about ? spectral subtraction ? professor a : yeah . phd f : it 's just uh well it 's another they are trying to u to use the um the ericsson and we 're trying to use something something else . and . yeah , and also to understand what happens because uh fff well . when we do spectral subtraction , actually , i think that this is the the two last figures . professor a : yeah . phd f : um . it seems that after spectral subtraction , speech is more emerging now uh than than before . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : speech is more what ? phd f : well , the difference between the energy of the speech and the energy of the n spectral subtrac subtracted noise portion is is larger . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : well , if you compare the first figure to this one actually the scale is not the same , but if you look at the the numbers um you clearly see that the difference between the c - zero of the speech and c - zero of the noise portion is larger . uh but what happens is that after spectral subtraction , you also increase the variance of this of c - zero . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : and so if you apply variance normalization on this , it completely sc screw everything . well . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : um . uh . yeah . so yeah . and what they did at ogi is just uh they do n't use on - line normalization , for the moment , on spectral subtraction and i think yeah . i think as soon as they will try on - line normalization there will be a problem . so yeah , we 're working on the same thing but i think uh with different different system and professor a : right . i mean , i the intellectually it 's interesting to work on things th uh one way or the other phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : but i 'm i 'm just wondering if um on the list of things that there are to do , if there are things that we wo n't do because we 've got two groups doing the same thing . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : um . that 's phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : um . just just asking . uh . i mean , it 's phd f : yeah , well , phd b : there also could be i mean . i can maybe see a reason f for both working on it too if um you know , if if if you work on something else and and you 're waiting for them to give you spectral subtraction i mean it 's hard to know whether the effects that you get from the other experiments you do will carry over once you then bring in their spectral subtraction module . so it 's it 's almost like everything 's held up waiting for this one thing . i do n't know if that 's true or not , but i could see how professor a : i do n't know . phd b : maybe that 's what you were thinking . professor a : i do n't know . i mean , we still evidently have a latency reduction plan which which is n't quite what you 'd like it to be . that that seems like one prominent thing . and then uh were n't issues of of having a a second stream or something ? that was was it there was this business that , you know , we we could use up the full forty - eight hundred bits , and phd f : yeah . but i think they ' i think we want to work on this . they also want to work on this , so . uh . yeah . we we will try msg , but um , yeah . and they are t i think they want to work on the second stream also , but more with some kind of multi - band or , well , what they call trap or generalized trap . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : um . so . professor a : ok . do you remember when the next meeting is supposed to be ? the next uh phd f : it 's uh in june . professor a : in june . ok . phd f : yeah . professor a : yeah . um . yeah , the other thing is that you saw that that mail about uh the vad v a ds performing quite differently ? that that uh so um . this there was this experiment of uh `` what if we just take the baseline ? `` set uh of features , just mel cepstra , and you inc incorporate the different v a and it looks like the the french vad is actually uh better significantly better . phd b : improves the baseline ? professor a : yeah . yeah . phd f : yeah but i do n't know which vad they use . uh . if the use the small vad i th i think it 's on i think it 's easy to do better because it does n't work at all . so . i i do n't know which which one . it 's pratibha that that did this experiment . phd d : yeah . phd f : um . we should ask which vad she used . phd d : i do n't @ @ . he actually , i think that he say with the good vad of from ogi and with the alcatel vad . and the experiment was sometime better , sometime worse . phd f : yeah but i it 's uh i think you were talking about the other mail that used vad on the reference features . yeah . professor a : and on that one , uh the french one is was better . phd d : i do n't remember . professor a : it was just better . phd d : mm - hmm . professor a : i mean it was enough better that that it would uh account for a fair amount of the difference between our performance , actually . phd f : mm - hmm . phd d : mm - hmm . professor a : so . uh . so if they have a better one , we should use it . i mean . you know ? it 's you ca n't work on everything . phd f : yeah . professor a : uh . uh . yeah . phd f : yeah , so we should find out if it 's really better . i mean if it the compared to the small or the big network . phd d : mm - hmm . professor a : yeah . phd f : and perhaps we can easily improve if if we put like mean normalization before the before the vad . because as as you 've mentioned . professor a : yeah . h hynek will be back in town uh the week after next , back back in the country . so . and start start organizing uh more visits and connections and so forth , phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and uh working towards june . phd f : yeah . phd d : also is stephane was thinking that maybe it was useful to f to think about uh voiced - unvoiced phd f : mm - hmm . phd d : to work uh here in voiced - unvoiced detection . phd f : yeah . yeah . phd d : and we are looking in the uh signal . phd f : yeah , my feeling is that um actually when we look at all the proposals , ev everybody is still using some kind of spectral envelope professor a : right . phd f : and um it 's professor a : no use of pitch uh basically . yeah . phd f : yeah , well , not pitch , but to look at the um fine at the at the high re high resolution spectrum . professor a : yeah . well , it phd f : so . we do n't necessarily want to find the the pitch of the of the sound but uh cuz i have a feeling that when we look when we look at the just at the envelope there is no way you can tell if it 's voiced and unvoiced , if there is some it 's it 's easy in clean speech because voiced sound are more low frequency and . so there would be more , professor a : yeah . phd f : uh there is the first formant , which is the larger and then voiced sound are more high frequencies cuz it 's frication and professor a : right . phd f : but , yeah . when you have noise there is no um if if you have a low frequency noise it could be taken for for voiced speech and . professor a : yeah , you can make these mistakes , but but phd b : is n't there some other phd f : so i think that it it would be good yeah , yeah , well , go go on . phd b : uh , i was just gon na say is n't there are n't are n't there lots of ideas for doing voice activity , or speech - nonspeech rather , { comment } um by looking at um , you know , uh i guess harmonics or looking across time professor a : well , i think he was talking about the voiced - unvoiced , though , right ? so , not the speech - nonspeech . phd b : yeah . well even with e professor a : yeah . phd b : uh w ah you know , uh even with the voiced - non voiced - unvoiced um i thought that you or somebody was talking about professor a : well . uh yeah . b we should let him finish what he w he was gon na say , and phd b : so go ahead . phd f : um yeah , so yeah , i think if we try to develop a second stream well , there would be one stream that is the envelope and the second , it could be interesting to have that 's something that 's more related to the fine structure of the spectrum . and . yeah , so i do n't know . we were thinking about like using ideas from from larry saul , have a good voice detector , have a good , well , voiced - speech detector , that 's working on on the fft and uh larry saul could be an idea . we were are thinking about just kind of uh taking the spectrum and computing the variance of of the high resolution spectrum and things like this . professor a : so u s u ok . so so many tell you something about that . uh we had a guy here some years ago who did some work on um making use of voicing information uh to help in reducing the noise . phd f : yeah ? professor a : so what he was doing is basically y you you do estimate the pitch . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and um you from that you you estimate or you estimate fine harmonic structure , whichev ei either way , it 's more or less the same . but uh the thing is that um you then can get rid of things that are not i if there is strong harmonic structure , you can throw away stuff that 's that 's non - harmonic . phd f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : and that that is another way of getting rid of part of the noise phd f : yeah . professor a : so um that 's something that is sort of finer , phd f : yeah . professor a : brings in a little more information than just spectral subtraction . um . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and he had some i mean , he did that sort of in combination with rasta . it was kind of like rasta was taking care of convolutional stuff and he was phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and and got some some decent results doing that . so that that 's another another way . but yeah , there 's there 's phd f : yeah . mmm . professor a : right . there 's all these cues . we 've actually back when chuck was here we did some voiced - unvoiced uh classification using a bunch of these , phd f : but professor a : and and uh works ok . obviously it 's not perfect but um phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : but the thing is that you ca n't given the constraints of this task , we ca n't , in a very nice way , feed forward to the recognizer the information the probabilistic information that you might get about whether it 's voiced or unvoiced , where w we ca n't you know affect the the uh distributions or anything . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : but we what we uh i guess we could yeah . phd b : did n't the head dude send around that message ? yeah , i think you sent us all a copy of the message , where he was saying that i i 'm not sure , exactly , what the gist of what he was saying , but something having to do with the voice activity detector and that it will that people should n't put their own in or something . it was gon na be a professor a : that but ok . so that 's voice activity detector as opposed to voicing detector . phd f : they did n't . professor a : so we 're talking about something a little different . phd b : oh , i 'm sorry . professor a : right ? phd b : i i missed that . professor a : i guess what you could do , maybe this would be w useful , if if you have if you view the second stream , yeah , before you before you do klt 's and so forth , if you do view it as probabilities , and if it 's an independent so , if it 's if it 's uh not so much envelope - based by fine - structure - based , uh looking at harmonicity or something like that , um if you get a probability from that information and then multiply it by you know , multiply by all the voiced outputs and all the unvoiced outputs , you know , then use that as the phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : uh take the log of that or uh pre pre uh pre - nonlinearity , phd f : yeah . i if professor a : uh and do the klt on the on on that , phd f : yeah . professor a : then that would that would i guess be uh a reasonable use of independent information . so maybe that 's what you meant . and then that would be phd f : yeah , well , i was not thinking this yeah , this could be an yeah so you mean have some kind of probability for the v the voicing professor a : r right . so you have a second neural net . phd f : and then use a tandem system professor a : it could be pretty small . yeah . if you have a tandem system and then you have some kind of it can be pretty small net phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : we used we d did some of this stuff . uh i i did , some years ago , phd f : yeah . professor a : and the and and you use the thing is to use information primarily that 's different as you say , it 's more fine - structure - based than than envelope - based phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : uh so then it you you you can pretty much guarantee it 's stuff that you 're not looking at very well with the other one , and uh then you only use for this one distinction . phd f : alright . professor a : and and so now you 've got a probability of the cases , and you 've got uh the probability of the finer uh categories on the other side . you multiply them where appropriate and uh um phd f : i see , yeah . mm - hmm . professor a : if they really are from independent information sources then they should have different kinds of errors phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and roughly independent errors , and it 's a good choice for phd f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yeah . professor a : uh . yeah , that 's a good idea . phd f : yeah . because , yeah , well , spectral subtraction is good and we could u we could use the fine structure to to have a better estimate of the noise but still there is this issue with spectral subtraction that it seems to increase the variance of of of professor a : yeah . phd f : um well it 's this musical noise which is annoying if you d you do some kind of on - line normalization after . professor a : right . phd f : so . um . yeah . well . spectral subtraction and on - line normalization do n't seem to to go together very well . i professor a : or if you do a spectral subtraction do some spectral subtraction first and then do some on - line normalization then do some more spectral subtraction i mean , maybe maybe you can do it layers or something so it does n't does n't hurt too much or something . phd f : ah , yeah . professor a : but it but uh , anyway i think i was sort of arguing against myself there by giving that example phd f : yeah . professor a : uh i mean cuz i was already sort of suggesting that we should be careful about not spending too much time on exactly what they 're doing in fact if you get if you go into uh a uh harmonics - related thing it 's definitely going to be different than what they 're doing and uh uh phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : should have some interesting properties in noise . um . i know that when have people have done um sort of the obvious thing of taking uh your feature vector and adding in some variables which are pitch related or uh that it has n't my impression it has n't particularly helped . uh . has not . phd f : it it i has not , professor a : yeah . phd f : yeah . professor a : but i think uh that 's that 's a question for this uh you know extending the feature vector versus having different streams . phd f : oh . was it nois noisy condition ? the example that you you just professor a : and and it may not have been noisy conditions . phd f : yeah . professor a : yeah . i i do n't remember the example but it was it was on some darpa data and some years ago and so it probably was n't , actually phd f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yeah . but we were thinking , we discussed with barry about this , and perhaps thinking we were thinking about some kind of sheet cheating experiment where we would use timit professor a : uh - huh . phd f : and see if giving the d uh , this voicing bit would help in in terms of uh frame classification . professor a : why do n't you why do n't you just do it with aurora ? just any i in in each in each frame phd f : yeah , but but b but we can not do the cheating , this cheating thing . grad e : we 're professor a : uh grad e : we need labels . professor a : why not ? phd f : well . cuz we do n't have well , for italian perhaps we have , but we do n't have this labeling for aurora . we just have a labeling with word models professor a : i see . phd f : but not for phonemes . phd d : not for foreigners . grad e : we do n't have frame frame level transcriptions . phd d : right . phd f : um . yeah . professor a : but you could i mean you can you can align so that it 's not perfect , but if you if you know what was said and phd b : but the problem is that their models are all word level models . so there 's no phone models that you get alignments for . phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : you so you could find out where the word boundaries are but that 's about it . professor a : yeah . i see . grad e : s but we could use uh the the noisy version that timit , which you know , is similar to the the noises found in the ti - digits um portion of aurora . phd f : yeah . noise , yeah . yeah , that 's right , yep . mmm . professor a : yeah . phd f : well , i guess i guess we can we can say that it will help , but i do n't know . if this voicing bit does n't help , uh , i think we do n't have to to work more about this because uh . it 's just to know if it how much i it will help professor a : yeah . phd f : and to have an idea of how much we can gain . professor a : right . i mean in experiments that we did a long time ago and different ta it was probably resource management or something , um , i think you were getting something like still eight or nine percent error on the voicing , as i recall . and um , so um grad e : another person 's voice . professor a : what that said is that , sort of , left to its own devices , like without the a strong language model and so forth , that you would you would make significant number of errors just with your uh probabilistic machinery in deciding phd b : it also professor a : one oh phd b : yeah , the though i think uh there was one problem with that in that , you know , we used canonical mapping so our truth may not have really been true to the acoustics . professor a : uh - huh . yeah . well back twenty years ago when i did this voiced - unvoiced stuff , we were getting more like ninety - seven or ninety - eight percent correct in voicing . but that was speaker - dependent actually . we were doing training on a particular announcer phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and and getting a very good handle on the features . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and we did this complex feature selection thing where we looked at all the different possible features one could have for voicing and and and uh and exhaustively searched all size subsets and and uh for for that particular speaker and you 'd find you know the five or six features which really did well on them . phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and then doing doing all of that we could get down to two or three percent error . but that , again , was speaker - dependent with lots of feature selection phd f : mm - hmm . professor a : and a very complex sort of thing . so i would i would believe that uh it was quite likely that um looking at envelope only , that we 'd be significantly worse than that . phd f : mm - hmm . and the all the the speechcorders ? what 's the idea behind ? cuz they they have to oh , they do n't even have to detect voiced spe speech ? professor a : the modern ones do n't do a a simple switch . phd f : they just work on the code book professor a : they work on the code book excitation . phd f : and find out the best excitation . professor a : yeah they do analysis - by - synthesis . they try they they try every every possible excitation they have in their code book and find the one that matches best . phd f : yeah . mmm . alright . yeah . so it would not help . professor a : yeah . uh . o k . phd b : can i just mention one other interesting thing ? professor a : yeah . phd b : um . one of the ideas that we had come up with last week for things to try to improve the system um . actually i i s we did n't i guess i wrote this in after the meeting b but the thought i had was um looking at the language model that 's used in the htk recognizer , which is basically just a big loop , grad e : mm - hmm . phd b : right ? so you it goes `` digit `` phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : and then that can be either go to silence or go to another digit , which that model would allow for the production of infinitely long sequences of digits , right ? professor a : right . phd b : so . i thought `` well i 'm gon na just look at the what actual digit strings do occur in the training data . `` professor a : right . phd b : and the interesting thing was it turns out that there are no sequences of two - long or three - long digit strings in any of the aurora training data . so it 's either one , four , five , six , uh up to eleven , and then it skips and then there 's some at sixteen . professor a : but what about the testing data ? phd b : um . i do n't know . i did n't look at the test data yet . professor a : yeah . i mean if there 's some testing data that has has has two or three phd b : so . yeah . but i just thought that was a little odd , that there were no two or three long sorry . so i i just for the heck of it , i made a little grammar which um , you know , had it 's separate path for each length digit string you could get . so there was a one - long path and there was a four - long and a five - long professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : and i tried that and it got way worse . there were lots of deletions . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : so it was you know , i i did n't have any weights of these paths or i did n't have anything like that . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : and i played with tweaking the word transition penalties a bunch , but i could n't go anywhere . but um . i thought `` well if i only allow `` yeah , i guess i should have looked at to see how often there was a mistake where a two - long or a three - long path was actually put out as a hypothesis . um . but . so to do that right you 'd probably want to have allow for them all but then have weightings and things . so . i just thought that was a interesting thing about the data . professor a : ok . so we 're gon na read some more digit strings i guess ? phd b : yeah . you want to go ahead , morgan ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on patterns of noise in the recordings </s> professor a : ok , so uh had some interesting mail from uh dan ellis . actually , i think he he redirected it to everybody also so uh the pda mikes uh have a big bunch of energy at at uh five hertz uh where this came up was that uh i was showing off these wave forms that we have on the web and and uh i just sort of had n't noticed this , but that the major , major component in the wave in the second wave form in that pair of wave forms is actually the air conditioner . so . so . i i have to be more careful about using that as a as a as a good illustration , uh , in fact it 's not , of uh of the effects of room reverberation . it is is n't a bad illustration of the effects of uh room noise . on on uh some mikes uh but so . and then we had this other discussion about um whether this affects the dynamic range , cuz i know , although we start off with thirty two bits , you end up with uh sixteen bits and you know , are we getting hurt there ? but uh dan is pretty confident that we 're not , that that quantization error is not is still not a significant factor there . so . so there was a question of whether we should change things here , whether we should change a capacitor on the input box for that or whether we should phd b : yeah , he suggested a smaller capacitor , right ? professor a : right . but then i had some other uh thing discussions with him phd b : for the p d professor a : and the feeling was once we start monk monkeying with that , uh , many other problems could ha happen . and additionally we we already have a lot of data that 's been collected with that , so . phd b : yeah . professor a : a simple thing to do is he he he has a i forget if it this was in that mail or in the following mail , but he has a a simple filter , a digital filter that he suggested . we just run over the data before we deal with it . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : um the other thing that i do n't know the answer to , but when people are using feacalc here , uh whether they 're using it with the high - pass filter option or not . and i do n't know if anybody knows . grad e : um . i could go check . professor a : but . yeah . so when we 're doing all these things using our software there is um if it 's if it 's based on the rasta - plp program , which does both plp and rasta - plp um then uh there is an option there which then comes up through to feacalc which um allows you to do high - pass filtering and in general we like to do that , because of things like this and it 's it 's pretty it 's not a very severe filter . does n't affect speech frequencies , even pretty low speech frequencies , at all , but it 's phd b : what 's the cut - off frequency it used ? professor a : oh . i do n't know i wrote this a while ago phd b : is it like twenty ? professor a : something like that . phd b : yeah . professor a : yeah . i mean i think there 's some effect above twenty but it 's it 's it 's it 's mild . so , i mean it probably there 's probably some effect up to a hundred hertz or something but it 's it 's pretty mild . i do n't know in the in the strut implementation of the stuff is there a high - pass filter or a pre pre - emphasis or something in the phd f : uh . i think we use a pre - emphasis . yeah . yeah . professor a : so . we we we want to go and check that in i for anything that we 're going to use the p d a mike for . uh he says that there 's a pretty good roll off in the pzm mikes so we do n't need need to worry about them one way or the other but if we do make use of the cheap mikes , uh we want to be sure to do that that filtering before we process it . and then again if it 's uh depending on the option that the our our software is being run with , it 's it 's quite possible that 's already being taken care of . uh but i also have to pick a different picture to show the effects of reverberation . uh phd b : did somebody notice it during your talk ? professor a : uh no . well . uh well . if they made output they were they were , you know they were nice . phd b : did n't say anything ? professor a : but . i mean the thing is it was since i was talking about reverberation and showing this thing that was noise , it was n't a good match , but it certainly was still uh an indication of the fact that you get noise with distant mikes . uh it 's just not a great example because not only is n't it reverberation but it 's a noise that we definitely know what to do . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : so , i mean , it does n't take deep a new bold new methods to get rid of uh five hertz noise , so . phd b : yeah . professor a : um uh but . so it was it was a bad example in that way , but it 's it still is it 's the real thing that we did get out of the microphone at distance , so it was n't it w it w was n't wrong it was inappropriate . so . so uh , but uh , yeah , someone noticed it later pointed it out to me , and i went `` oh , man . why did n't i notice that ? `` um . so . um so i think we 'll change our our picture on the web , when we 're @ @ . one of the things i was i mean , i was trying to think about what what 's the best way to show the difference an and i had a couple of thoughts one was , that spectrogram that we show is o k , but the thing is the eyes uh and the the brain behind them are so good at picking out patterns from from noise that in first glance you look at them it does n't seem like it 's that bad uh because there 's many features that are still preserved . so one thing to do might be to just take a piece of the spec uh of the spectrogram where you can see that something looks different , an and blow it up , and have that be the part that 's just to show as well . you know . phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about the effect of noise on speech frequencies ? </s> professor a : ok , so uh had some interesting mail from uh dan ellis . actually , i think he he redirected it to everybody also so uh the pda mikes uh have a big bunch of energy at at uh five hertz uh where this came up was that uh i was showing off these wave forms that we have on the web and and uh i just sort of had n't noticed this , but that the major , major component in the wave in the second wave form in that pair of wave forms is actually the air conditioner . so . so . i i have to be more careful about using that as a as a as a good illustration , uh , in fact it 's not , of uh of the effects of room reverberation . it is is n't a bad illustration of the effects of uh room noise . on on uh some mikes uh but so . and then we had this other discussion about um whether this affects the dynamic range , cuz i know , although we start off with thirty two bits , you end up with uh sixteen bits and you know , are we getting hurt there ? but uh dan is pretty confident that we 're not , that that quantization error is not is still not a significant factor there . so . so there was a question of whether we should change things here , whether we should change a capacitor on the input box for that or whether we should phd b : yeah , he suggested a smaller capacitor , right ? professor a : right . but then i had some other uh thing discussions with him phd b : for the p d professor a : and the feeling was once we start monk monkeying with that , uh , many other problems could ha happen . and additionally we we already have a lot of data that 's been collected with that , so . phd b : yeah . professor a : a simple thing to do is he he he has a i forget if it this was in that mail or in the following mail , but he has a a simple filter , a digital filter that he suggested . we just run over the data before we deal with it . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : um the other thing that i do n't know the answer to , but when people are using feacalc here , uh whether they 're using it with the high - pass filter option or not . and i do n't know if anybody knows . grad e : um . i could go check . professor a : but . yeah . so when we 're doing all these things using our software there is um if it 's if it 's based on the rasta - plp program , which does both plp and rasta - plp um then uh there is an option there which then comes up through to feacalc which um allows you to do high - pass filtering and in general we like to do that , because of things like this and it 's it 's pretty it 's not a very severe filter . does n't affect speech frequencies , even pretty low speech frequencies , at all , but it 's phd b : what 's the cut - off frequency it used ? professor a : oh . i do n't know i wrote this a while ago phd b : is it like twenty ? professor a : something like that . phd b : yeah . professor a : yeah . i mean i think there 's some effect above twenty but it 's it 's it 's it 's mild . so , i mean it probably there 's probably some effect up to a hundred hertz or something but it 's it 's pretty mild . i do n't know in the in the strut implementation of the stuff is there a high - pass filter or a pre pre - emphasis or something in the phd f : uh . i think we use a pre - emphasis . yeah . yeah . professor a : so . we we we want to go and check that in i for anything that we 're going to use the p d a mike for . uh he says that there 's a pretty good roll off in the pzm mikes so we do n't need need to worry about them one way or the other but if we do make use of the cheap mikes , uh we want to be sure to do that that filtering before we process it . and then again if it 's uh depending on the option that the our our software is being run with , it 's it 's quite possible that 's already being taken care of . uh but i also have to pick a different picture to show the effects of reverberation . uh phd b : did somebody notice it during your talk ? professor a : uh no . well . uh well . if they made output they were they were , you know they were nice . phd b : did n't say anything ? professor a : but . i mean the thing is it was since i was talking about reverberation and showing this thing that was noise , it was n't a good match , but it certainly was still uh an indication of the fact that you get noise with distant mikes . uh it 's just not a great example because not only is n't it reverberation but it 's a noise that we definitely know what to do . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : so , i mean , it does n't take deep a new bold new methods to get rid of uh five hertz noise , so . phd b : yeah . professor a : um uh but . so it was it was a bad example in that way , but it 's it still is it 's the real thing that we did get out of the microphone at distance , so it was n't it w it w was n't wrong it was inappropriate . so . so uh , but uh , yeah , someone noticed it later pointed it out to me , and i went `` oh , man . why did n't i notice that ? `` um . so . um so i think we 'll change our our picture on the web , when we 're @ @ . one of the things i was i mean , i was trying to think about what what 's the best way to show the difference an and i had a couple of thoughts one was , that spectrogram that we show is o k , but the thing is the eyes uh and the the brain behind them are so good at picking out patterns from from noise that in first glance you look at them it does n't seem like it 's that bad uh because there 's many features that are still preserved . so one thing to do might be to just take a piece of the spec uh of the spectrogram where you can see that something looks different , an and blow it up , and have that be the part that 's just to show as well . you know . </s>
<s> what did phd b think about patterns of noise in the recordings ? </s> phd b : for the p d professor a : and the feeling was once we start monk monkeying with that , uh , many other problems could ha happen . and additionally we we already have a lot of data that 's been collected with that , so . phd b : yeah . professor a : a simple thing to do is he he he has a i forget if it this was in that mail or in the following mail , but he has a a simple filter , a digital filter that he suggested . we just run over the data before we deal with it . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : um the other thing that i do n't know the answer to , but when people are using feacalc here , uh whether they 're using it with the high - pass filter option or not . and i do n't know if anybody knows . grad e : um . i could go check . professor a : but . yeah . so when we 're doing all these things using our software there is um if it 's if it 's based on the rasta - plp program , which does both plp and rasta - plp um then uh there is an option there which then comes up through to feacalc which um allows you to do high - pass filtering and in general we like to do that , because of things like this and it 's it 's pretty it 's not a very severe filter . does n't affect speech frequencies , even pretty low speech frequencies , at all , but it 's phd b : what 's the cut - off frequency it used ? professor a : oh . i do n't know i wrote this a while ago phd b : is it like twenty ? professor a : something like that . phd b : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on eurospeech and reverberation </s> professor a : yeah . anybo - anybody in the in this group do doing anything for eurospeech ? or , is that what is that phd f : yeah we are we are trying to to do something with the meeting recorder digits , professor a : right . phd f : and but yeah . yeah . and the good thing is that there is this first deadline , professor a : yeah . phd f : and , well , some people from ogi are working on a paper for this , but there is also the um special session about th aurora which is uh which has an extended deadline . so . the deadline is in may . professor a : for uh oh , for eurospeech ? phd f : for th yeah . so f only for the experiments on aurora . so it it 's good , professor a : oh , a special dispensation . phd f : yeah . professor a : that 's great . phd b : mm - hmm . where is eurospeech this year ? phd f : it 's in denmark . professor a : aalborg aalborg uh so the deadline when 's the deadline ? when 's the deadline ? phd f : hmm ? i think it 's the thirteenth of may . professor a : that 's great ! it 's great . so we should definitely get something in for that . phd f : yeah . professor a : but on meeting digits , maybe there 's maybe . phd f : yeah . professor a : maybe . phd f : so it would be for the first deadline . professor a : yeah . yeah . so , i mean , i i think that you could certainly start looking at at the issue uh but but uh i think it 's probably , on s from what stephane is saying , it 's it 's unlikely to get sort of active participation from the two sides until after they 've phd b : well i could at least well , i 'm going to be out next week but i could try to look into like this uh cvs over the web . that seems to be a very popular way of people distributing changes and over , you know , multiple sites and things professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : so maybe if i can figure out how do that easily and then pass the information on to everybody so that it 's you know , as easy to do as possible and and people do n't it wo n't interfere with { comment } their regular work , then maybe that would be good . and i think we could use it for other things around here too . so . professor a : good . grad c : that 's cool . and if you 're interested in using cvs , i 've set it up here , phd b : oh great . i used it a long time ago but it 's been a while so maybe i can ask you some questions . grad c : oh . so . i 'll be away tomorrow and monday but i 'll be back on tuesday or wednesday . professor a : yeah . dave , the other thing , actually , is is this business about this wave form . maybe you and i can talk a little bit at some point about coming up with a better uh demonstration of the effects of reverberation for our web page , cuz uh the uh um i mean , actually the the uh it made a good good audio demonstration because when we could play that clip the the the really obvious difference is that you can hear two voices and in the second one and only hear phd b : maybe we could just like , talk into a cup . professor a : yeah . phd b : some good reverb . professor a : no , i mean , it sound it sounds pretty reverberant , but i mean you ca n't when you play it back in a room with a you know a big room , nobody can hear that difference really . grad c : yeah . professor a : they hear that it 's lower amplitude and they hear there 's a second voice , grad c : uh - huh . professor a : um but uh that actually that makes for a perfectly good demo because that 's a real obvious thing , that you hear two voices . phd b : but not of reverberation . professor a : yeah . grad c : a boom . professor a : well that that that 's ok . but for the the visual , just , you know , i 'd like to have uh uh , you know , the spectrogram again , grad c : yeah . professor a : because you 're you 're you 're visual uh abilities as a human being are so good you can pick out you know , you you look at the good one , you look at the cru the screwed up one , and and you can see the features in it without trying to @ @ phd b : i noticed that in the pictures . professor a : yeah . phd b : i thought `` hey , you know th `` i my initial thought was `` this is not too bad ! `` professor a : right . but you have to you know , if you look at it closely , you see `` well , here 's a place where this one has a big formant uh uh formant maj major formants here are are moving quite a bit . `` and then you look in the other one and they look practically flat . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : so i mean you could that 's why i was thinking , in a section like that , you could take a look look at just that part of the spectrogram and you could say `` oh yeah . this this really distorted it quite a bit . `` phd b : yeah . the main thing that struck me in looking at those two spectrograms was the difference in the high frequencies . it looked like for the one that was farther away , you know , it really everything was attenuated professor a : right . phd b : and i mean that was the main visual thing that i noticed . professor a : right . but it 's it 's uh so . yeah . so there are clearly are spectral effects . since you 're getting all this indirect energy , then a lot of it does have have uh reduced high frequencies . but um the other thing is the temporal courses of things really are changed , and and uh we want to show that , in some obvious way . the reason i put the wave forms in there was because uh they they do look quite different . uh . and so i thought `` oh , this is good . `` but i i just uh after after uh they were put in there i did n't really look at them anymore , cuz i just they were different . so i want something that has a is a more interesting explanation for why they 're different . um . grad c : oh . so maybe we can just substitute one of these wave forms and um then do some kind of zoom in on the spectrogram on an interesting area . professor a : something like that . yeah . grad c : uh - huh . professor a : the other thing that we had in there that i did n't like was that um the most obvious characteristic of the difference uh when you listen to it is that there 's a second voice , and the the the the the uh cuts that we have there actually do n't correspond to the full wave form . it 's just the first i think there was something where he was having some trouble getting so much in , or . i i forget the reason behind it . but it it 's um it 's the first six seconds or something of it and it 's in the seventh or eighth second or something where @ @ the second voice comes in . so we we would like to actually see the voice coming in , too , i think , since that 's the most obvious thing when you listen to it . grad c : mm - hmm . professor a : so . um . phd f : uh , yeah . yeah . i brought some i do n't know if some figures here . well . i start we started to work on spectral subtraction . and um the preliminary results were very bad . professor a : uh - huh . phd f : so the thing that we did is just to add spectral subtraction before this , the wall uh process , which contains lda on - line normalization . and it hurts uh a lot . professor a : uh - huh . phd f : and so we started to look at at um things like this , which is , well , it 's yeah . so you have the c - zero parameters for one uh italian utterance . phd d : you can @ @ . phd f : and i plotted this for two channels . channel zero is the close mic microphone , and channel one is the distant microphone . and it 's perfectly synchronized , so . and the sentence contain only one word , which is `` due `` and it ca n't clearly be seen . where where is it ? professor a : uh - huh . phd f : where is the word ? phd b : this is this is , oh , a plot of c - zero , the energy . phd f : this is a plot of c - zero , uh when we do n't use spectral substraction , and when there is no on - line normalization . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : so . there is just some filtering with the lda and and some downsampling , upsampling . phd b : c - zero is the close talking ? uh the close channel ? phd f : yeah . yeah . phd b : and s channel one is the phd f : yeah . so c - zero is very clean , actually . phd b : yeah . phd f : uh then when we apply mean normalization it looks like the second figure , though it is not . which is good . well , the noise part is around zero professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : and and then the third figure is what happens when we apply mean normalization and variance normalization . so . what we can clearly see is that on the speech portion the two channel come becomes very close , but also what happens on the noisy portion is that the variance of the noise is professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : this is still being a plot of c - zero ? ok . phd f : yeah . this is still c - zero . phd b : can i ask um what does variance normalization do ? w what is the effect of that ? professor a : normalizes the variance . phd f : so it it yeah . phd b : i mean phd f : it normalized th the standard deviation . phd b : y yeah . phd f : so it phd b : no , i understand that , phd f : you you get an estimate of the standard deviation . phd b : but i mean phd f : that 's um phd b : no , i understand what it is , but i mean , what does it what 's what is phd f : yeah but . phd b : uh professor a : what 's the rationale ? phd b : we yeah . yeah . why why do it ? professor a : well , i mean , because everything uh if you have a system based on gaussians , everything is based on means and variances . phd b : yeah . professor a : so if there 's an overall reason you know , it 's like uh if you were doing uh image processing and in some of the pictures you were looking at , uh there was a lot of light uh and and in some , there was low light , phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : you know , you would want to adjust for that in order to compare things . phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : and the variance is just sort of like the next moment , you know ? so uh what if um one set of pictures was taken uh so that throughout the course it was went through daylight and night uh um um ten times , another time it went thr i mean i is , you know , how how much how much vari phd b : oh , ok . professor a : or no . i guess a better example would be how much of the light was coming in from outside rather than artificial light . so if it was a lot if more was coming from outside , then there 'd be the bigger effect of the of the of the change in the so every mean every all all of the the parameters that you have , especially the variances , are going to be affected by the overall variance . phd b : oh , ok . uh - huh . professor a : and so , in principle , you if you remove that source , then , you know , you can phd b : i see . ok . so would the major effect is that you 're gon na get is by normalizing the means , professor a : that 's the first order but thing , phd b : but it may help first - order effects . professor a : but then the second order is is the variances phd b : and it may help to do the variance . ok . professor a : because , again , if you if you 're trying to distinguish between e and b if it just so happens that the e 's were a more you know , were recorded when when the energy was was was larger or something , phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : or the variation in it was larger , uh than with the b 's , then this will be give you some some bias . so the it 's removing these sources of variability in the data that have nothing to do with the linguistic component . phd b : gotcha . ok . sorry to interrupt . professor a : but the the uh but let me as ask ask you something . phd f : yep . and it and this professor a : i is if if you have a good voice activity detector , is n't is n't it gon na pull that out ? phd f : yeah . sure . if they are good . yeah . well what it it shows is that , yeah , perhaps a good voice activity detector is is good before on - line normalization and that 's what uh we 've already observed . but uh , yeah , voice activity detection is not an easy thing neither . phd b : but after you do this , after you do the variance normalization i mean . phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : i do n't know , it seems like this would be a lot easier than this signal to work with . </s>
<s> what did the phd f think about eurospeech ? </s> professor a : yeah . anybo - anybody in the in this group do doing anything for eurospeech ? or , is that what is that phd f : yeah we are we are trying to to do something with the meeting recorder digits , professor a : right . phd f : and but yeah . yeah . and the good thing is that there is this first deadline , professor a : yeah . phd f : and , well , some people from ogi are working on a paper for this , but there is also the um special session about th aurora which is uh which has an extended deadline . so . the deadline is in may . professor a : for uh oh , for eurospeech ? phd f : for th yeah . so f only for the experiments on aurora . so it it 's good , professor a : oh , a special dispensation . phd f : yeah . professor a : that 's great . phd b : mm - hmm . where is eurospeech this year ? phd f : it 's in denmark . professor a : aalborg aalborg uh so the deadline when 's the deadline ? when 's the deadline ? phd f : hmm ? i think it 's the thirteenth of may . professor a : that 's great ! it 's great . so we should definitely get something in for that . phd f : yeah . professor a : but on meeting digits , maybe there 's maybe . phd f : yeah . professor a : maybe . phd f : so it would be for the first deadline . </s>
<s> what did phd f think about spectral subtraction ? </s> phd f : uh , yeah . yeah . i brought some i do n't know if some figures here . well . i start we started to work on spectral subtraction . and um the preliminary results were very bad . professor a : uh - huh . phd f : so the thing that we did is just to add spectral subtraction before this , the wall uh process , which contains lda on - line normalization . and it hurts uh a lot . professor a : uh - huh . phd f : and so we started to look at at um things like this , which is , well , it 's yeah . so you have the c - zero parameters for one uh italian utterance . phd d : you can @ @ . phd f : and i plotted this for two channels . channel zero is the close mic microphone , and channel one is the distant microphone . and it 's perfectly synchronized , so . and the sentence contain only one word , which is `` due `` and it ca n't clearly be seen . where where is it ? professor a : uh - huh . phd f : where is the word ? phd b : this is this is , oh , a plot of c - zero , the energy . phd f : this is a plot of c - zero , uh when we do n't use spectral substraction , and when there is no on - line normalization . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : so . there is just some filtering with the lda and and some downsampling , upsampling . phd b : c - zero is the close talking ? uh the close channel ? phd f : yeah . yeah . phd b : and s channel one is the phd f : yeah . so c - zero is very clean , actually . phd b : yeah . phd f : uh then when we apply mean normalization it looks like the second figure , though it is not . which is good . well , the noise part is around zero professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : and and then the third figure is what happens when we apply mean normalization and variance normalization . so . what we can clearly see is that on the speech portion the two channel come becomes very close , but also what happens on the noisy portion is that the variance of the noise is professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : this is still being a plot of c - zero ? ok . phd f : yeah . this is still c - zero . phd b : can i ask um what does variance normalization do ? w what is the effect of that ? professor a : normalizes the variance . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone , and welcome to the children , young people and education committee this morning . we 've received apologies for absence from siân gwenllian and there is no substitute this morning . can i ask if members have got any declarations of interest they 'd like to make , please ? no ? okay . thank you . item 2 this morning , then , is a further session on our follow-up on our 'mind over matter ' report . i 'm very pleased to welcome carol shillabeer , who is chief executive of powys teaching health board , and who manages the together for children and young people programme . thank you very much for attending , and thank you for the written update that you provided in advance to the committee . we 've got a lot of ground that we want to cover this morning , so if it 's okay we 'll go straight into questions . if i can just start and ask you if you 're satisfied with the progress that 's been made since the programme was established in 2015 . carol shillabeer : thank you very much for that question , chair . i 've got to say 'yes ' , in many regards . so , the key focus of the programme in the early stages was about improving access to specialist child and adolescent mental health services . we developed the windscreen model—or we lifted the windscreen model . other models that are very similar have been talked about as well , and our big focus was on ensuring that we could make immediate progress around access to specialist camhs . it 's some years ago now since this committee did the original report , and obviously healthcare inspectorate wales and the wales audit office had done reports in the past , and i think there was a need for a programme that could focus on action . you 'll see in the written update that we covered quite a large number of areas , and so therefore had to make a prioritisation . the prioritisation was at the specialist camhs end . we have provided the committee with a red , amber or green rating of where we feel that we were , and that was just before submission of the evidence . overall i would say we have made progress . i recognise you recognise that in your 'mind over matter ' report , and that is pleasing . what i would say , though , is that there 's a still a lot to be done . certainly over the last nine months or so , we 've seen a real momentum around the whole-school approach work , which we 're not actually leading now as a programme , although we facilitated the workshop held in september . but that 's got a real momentum , and the absolute priority now is the early help and enhanced support part of the work moving forward , and i 'm sure we will come on to that in more detail . but we know there is more community workforce in specialist camhs , we know we 're seeing children in a shorter time frame , and we know we 're accepting more referrals , so our indicators are telling us we are making progress . lynne neagle am : thank you . and you referred to the work on the whole-school approach , which is very welcome , and i recognise that the programme has been involved in driving that as well . but i 'm sure you 'll also recognise the emphasis that the committee has placed on this being a whole-system approach to children and young people 's mental health , and we feel very strongly that if any of the areas get out of balance , then it will jeopardise the progress in other parts of the programme . are there any particular areas where you feel you have n't made enough progress that you 'd like to draw the committee 's attention to ? carol shillabeer : this is maybe about what the programme 's done , but really around the broader sense as well . i 'm going to be very straight and say we should have made more progress on psychological therapies . i 'm disappointed that we have n't . i 'm assured that we 've got capacity in place now and the drive in place to get the matrics cymru framework developed for children and young people . i 've had discussions with the national psychological therapies committee , who have owned this , and we 're working together more on this area . that 's not to say for one minute that health boards and local areas have n't been working on psychological therapy service provision and changing the models , but that is an area we should have made , i think , earlier progress on . there 's been a general reflection from myself and the together for children and young people programme board over the phase of the programme . i think we started very strongly ; i think we probably had a bit of a lull in the middle , if i 'm truthful about that—we had a change of personnel , and we really gathered a momentum over the last year or 18 months , and that has helped to push us from a focus on specialist camhs into that whole-school approach . but , if i could just agree with your comments about the whole system , it has to be the whole system and that 's why the real focus now on early help and enhanced support is critical . if i can just say , in case i do n't get a chance to say this later , i was delighted to see the focus on youth work yesterday , because what is clear is for that part , the early help and enhanced support , this is n't just about the nhs and it 's not just about education , it 's about every part of the system , really , which does make it more complex . but i just wanted to say that i think that youth work has perhaps not have the recognition that it 's needed and yesterday was a positive step . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've got some questions now on early help and enhanced support from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . good morning . in terms of local primary mental health support services , what is your understanding of the issues leading to some health boards not meeting the mental health ( wales ) measure 2010 targets for assessment and therapy for children and young people , and how much of this is due to an increase in demand ? carol shillabeer : yes , thanks very much . so , it 's important to say , i think , at the outset , just by way of reminder , that the target , quite rightly , changed for children and young people . the target changed some years ago for adults , so it was only right that there was an equalisation around children . so , the services were working , a couple of years ago , with significant demand and then a change in the standard . i think you 're absolutely right ; your question alludes to the fact that some health boards are struggling to maintain the full performance around seeing children , particularly within the 28 days . i would say— . and we 've had some discussion about whether the impact of the mental health measure has actually drawn perhaps some of the workforce , the staff , who would have been working at that earlier stage in local primary mental health , into a bit more of the secondary element , which is why the review being undertaken by the nhs delivery unit into primary care camhs is so critical , because , actually , if we do n't have—and i believe we do n't have—enough capacity in that part of the system , then referrals will move towards the more specialist end of this . so , i think we will have seen , by the evidence submission , that demand has increased , not just in wales but in the uk , and it has increased significantly . we are doing reasonably well at meeting that demand—so , we have more contacts , more staff , shorter access times , so that is a good news story . we 've not got it completely sustained at this stage , and therefore the focus of the delivery unit 's primary care camhs report is what more can we do in that part of the system to help to see children and young people or provide consultation and liaison to others and support people at that level of intervention . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . i know , from my own experience as a constituency am , i have families who tell me that they ca n't get into the early interventions and eventually things just become so—they end up in the more specialist ones and believe that that's— . and i do n't like to put it in resource terms , but it 's false economy in terms of the impact on the child and the family , but , obviously , in terms of cost as well . do you find that that 's a common theme across wales ? carol shillabeer : yes . i think that the thrust of that is absolutely right . so , we absolutely need to see children and families at the earliest intervention and that 's why this is a whole system , not compartmentalised . i think there have been really good attempts in a couple of areas of that greater reach out and that earlier help—hot clinics and those sorts of initiatives that help people not to get in a long queue for specialist camhs , but can be supported , often by telephone , at that earlier stage . my sense of where we go next , in terms of , you know , you talk about early help and enhanced support for all the 'missing middle ' , as you referred to it in your report , is to make sure we 've got a fully joined-up , multi-agency team approach to that . and i think that will need some resourcing to support that , yet to be fully determined . but yesterday 's announcement about youth work , the government 's commitment to primary care , camhs , et cetera—that 's all going to be very helpful to prevent those young people having to go into specialist camhs . and just a final note on that , if i may—at the beginning of the programme , we had a report from hafal called 'making sense ' and there were 10 key asks , if you like , of the system and the service from young people who had experience of the service . they said , 'please do n't medicalise it'—i 'm paraphrasing now , of course—'please do n't medicalise it ; please focus on supporting teachers and others who can support us at an earlier stage and then , when we really need help , please ensure that it is there at that more specialist level . ' that 's been a bit of a guiding principle for the programme . so , that reflects the questions that you were asking , really . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . what are the outcomes of the stakeholder workshop held last week on early help and enhanced support ? and how are the actions going to be taken forward and implemented ? and also , given that the together for children and young people programme comes to an end in october of this year , who , in your view , is best placed to forward this work stream , and what will be the biggest challenges ? it 's a bit of a long question , so , break it up however you like . carol shillabeer : that 's absolutely fine . janet finch-saunders am : and what will be the biggest challenges that they will face ? carol shillabeer : yes , i think that 's helpfully laid out in three stages . so , you 're absolutely right , there was a highly successful workshop last week really focusing on early help and enhanced support . it brought all of the agencies together , which was—and actually had a bit of a waiting list , apparently , for places . so , there was a lot of demand and a lot of interest in this . in relation to the next steps , there is a planning group reflection in early july , in terms of the outcomes of the workshop or the outputs of the workshop , and there are three commitments that have been made to this stage . one is that we develop those values-led approaches that will bring multiple agencies together to have that common purpose . the second one is to develop the ingredients for successful working in this area , and then , thirdly , to determine or propose priorities and sequencing of next steps . so , that 's the next stage of that . i 'm pretty sure we 'll come on shortly—or hopefully—to the potential of the regional partnership boards . there is some work that we are doing as a programme with the children 's commissioner in terms of working more with the regional partnership boards in taking forward this work . so , that will run alongside . but during the summer , then , we will be developing that framework approach , and we will be participating in the association of directors of social services conference in september , and then a follow-up workshop in october on this matter . on your question of 'well , what happens after the programme ? ' we are currently working on legacy arrangements for the programme . i 'm pretty secure on the specialist camhs element . that will move , most likely , to the camhs network , which is part of the nhs mental health network . i actually chair the mental health network and that 's one part of that . the whole-school approach element is already settled in government and we 've got a connection in to that . the question that 's outstanding is where the early help and enhanced support and the neurodevelopmental will go . i am currently in discussions with welsh government officials around that . i can be very clear of my own view that there needs to be a confident and clear legacy arrangement for this work . we can not afford that we 've come so far for this not now to proceed . i think there 's a huge momentum behind this . i do n't see there would be any obstacles—i hope—in getting that commitment translated into a strong approach , as we move forward . so , i 'm not in a position to say , 'and the legacy arrangements will be— ' , but i am in a position to say that i 'm having those discussions with welsh government officials . they know my view that we 've got to put something in place that is strong and secure as we move forward , and i believe that they are supportive of that . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . lynne neagle am : janet , i think those two questions have been touched on , the remaining questions . we are going to discuss in more detail the legacy arrangements , but if i could just ask on psychological therapies : you referred to the fact that you were a bit disappointed with progress in this area , and the area has n't been directly led on by the together for children and young people programme . do you think that means now that there is more of a threat to progress in this area , because , you know , we 've got different compartmentalising of actions , and this is absolutely key , is n't it , really ? carol shillabeer : yes . i think there's— . there is some refinement to be done , i think , in making sure the connections are there . so , i think , as we move to programme end , we 'll want to be absolutely assured that there are no strands left hanging , so to speak . i am confident—i mentioned the mental health network board that i chair—that we have those strands nailed down , but recognising that the early help and enhanced support and the provision of psychological support is beyond the nhs . so , this will be an area that needs to be very much seen as a key part of that . my own sense is that— . there 's been quite a lot of other developments through the life of the programme . so , in the evidence that i 've provided , you 'll see the first 1000 days , all the adverse childhood experiences work , the cymru well wales partnership , et cetera , et cetera . so , there is a bit of what i would call tidying up of the landscape to be done , and this is the ideal opportunity to do that . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . we 've got some questions now on specialist camhs—if i can just ask about the impact of the specialist camhs framework , and how effective you feel that has been in promoting a consistent delivery of care for young people . carol shillabeer : thanks very much for that . without wanting to go back too far in history , i remember coming into this area back in 2014 as i was asked to establish a camhs network . my observation was there was n't really a strong and well-connected clinical community in this area . when we spin forward five years , i can confidently say that there is a strong and well-connected clinical community around specialist camhs . the programme has helped ; the emphasis and the focus of the programme has helped to bring people together with that more common endeavour to understand , actually , there is a good case for consistency in the main , with local variation . there has been a case for much greater learning between organisations . if i just give you an example—you 'll know that the community intensive service teams were put in place in 2015-ish . some areas have them , but a lot of areas did n't . we do have inconsistency in that , but the consistent part is there is a service now right the way across wales for more intensive support to children and young people and their families in their own homes , which helps to prevent admissions and then , where there are admissions , helps to support people to be at home . they 're all called slightly different things . so , i might have referred in my papers to citt , catt , cot and cite . so , they 've all got slightly different names and they 've got slightly different opening hours . the key thrust of this is that there is a backbone , if you like , of a consistent approach with that local variation . we have to check . so , things like frameworks for improvement—there is a coming together of the clinicians and the professionals to agree what that framework for improvement is . that then gets implemented , with some local variation . so , i think the process of moving in that way has been extremely helpful . there will be some variation . we want some variation , to some extent , as places try new things and evaluate new things . so , if i just refer to the previous question that i had , and i talked about hot clinics and different ways of reaching out ; that 's been tried in one area , been evaluated—let 's see the spread of that . so , you 'll know my view on internet counselling , for example ; i feel that is quite a strong offer for children—not necessarily in the specialist end . if that works in one area , why are n't we rolling that out to other areas ? so , i think the framework for improvement has provided a vehicle for those clinicians and professionals to come together . it 's in a stronger place—a much stronger place—than it was five years ago . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . you 've referred to there being some inconsistencies in terms of crisis care , but are you able to assure the committee that all young people are now getting at least a consistent service , especially in terms of interventions in the instances of young people self-harming . wherever you live in wales , is that help there for you now ? carol shillabeer : well , in your work to produce the 'mind over matter ' report , i clearly listened to the views from the police and the recommendations in relation to the police . we 've taken that as a further piece of work under the specialist camhs umbrella , to truly understand what the experiences of the police are and what some of the root issues may be in relation to that . for example , is it that because the cit , cat , cot , cite—the community intensive service—closes at 10 o'clock in a certain area , that actually it 's after that that the network of support is n't as strong , and , if that is the case , what are we going to do about that ? there 's certainly potential in working more regionally or even working between adults ' and children 's in terms of the crisis resolution services that work beyond those hours . so , we are taking an extra look at this , because i could not be 100 per cent confident that , throughout the 24-hour period , we 've got this fully settled . i continue to hear some stories from the police that they are picking up young people and feeling that they 've not got that solid place to go , and we 're following those through . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've got some questions now from hefin david on neurodevelopmental services . hefin david am : i think , chair , i should have declared an interest here , as my daughter has been diagnosed with autism and is currently going through the process of receiving neurodevelopmental speech and language support particularly . we 're seeing an increase in neurodevelopmental referrals , and that will increase further in the future . can you give us an explanation as to why this demand is growing and how we 're going to meet capacity to deliver and for support for those children ? carol shillabeer : thank you . they 're very big questions in terms of 'why ' . i 'm not sure that anyone really knows why , if i 'm honest , although there is a lot of academic research going on . what we do know is that we are starting to see the scale of those referrals coming through . so , in the information provided , i refer to the nhs digital prevalence report in england , which indicates that about 5.5 per cent of two to four-year-olds have a mental disorder . now , that sounds a bit shocking when we say that , but that 's in the international classification scaling , and , of that , certainly , 2.5 per cent is around autism . i can just testify , in real life , that demand is absolutely growing . so , if i just take my own health board for a moment , we usually have about 75 referrals per year . last year we had 300 . so , that has felt very difficult to manage . if i can just give you a sense of what we 've done so far and then what i think is next , i want to recognise the work of dr cath norton and the steering group that 's been established on neurodevelopmental issues under the programme . they had a standing start . they 've done a lot of very , very good work . we now have seven teams in place across wales . we now have a national pathway . we now have a community-of-practice-type environment , and we 're really getting into this . good progress has been made . more people have been seen . more people have been assessed . so , we have made progress . but i 've got a long list of considerations that i think respond to your question . one is that most referrals that come through , the clinicians tell me , are seeking support to move through what they perceive to be a gateway for educational support . so , that is often the reason why people come . now , that is obviously going to be linked to the whole-school approach and how we can support that . demand is outstripping supply . so , our clinical teams are concerned about how do they keep up . so , if i just take my own example of 300 in the last year , we 're looking to try and put some additional capacity in to support seeing those families , but also then to understand what the long-term trajectory is going to be . because we 've put these teams in , because we 've got the new pathway , has that opened a gate and we 've got a lot of backlog or is that the pattern ? hefin david am : can i just ask a question there ? so , with regard to the 75 to 300 increase—in the space of a year was that ? carol shillabeer : in a year , yes . hefin david am : did you anticipate that or was that something that just came totally unexpected ? carol shillabeer : i think we anticipated a few more , and just to say that in my— hefin david am : but not on that scale . carol shillabeer : no , not on that scale . and in my own health board—i 'm just referring to my own , and i 'm happy to share the information on this—we already had a service in place . so , it was n't as if we had nothing in place previously . we had a nice-compliant service already in place , but we knew we needed to expand that , which we have done , but we did n't anticipate 300 . so , this is happening not just across wales , actually , but across the uk—so , this greater recognition , the desire for families coming forward to access that support and them seeing this as a route , which is really important . what i would also say , and this is part of the bigger picture that we need to consider going forward , is that only about 40 per cent to 50 per cent of those families that come forward have what i would call or the clinicians would call a diagnosis—so , a threshold or whatever term you want to use that takes people through to that educational support . so , we 've got a lot of people who are under that threshold , but that 's a lot of people who still need help and support . i 'm trying to very fairly and , i hope , appropriately represent the very strong views coming from the group—the workstream under the programme . we 've got to tackle all of that . it 's not going to be good enough for us just to focus our attention on those children and young people and their families who reach a threshold , because there are needs elsewhere as well , and some of that will overlap with the early help and enhanced support . some of that overlaps with learning disability services . can i just mention a few more things , as i 'm on roll on neurodevelopmental ? hefin david am : it 's up to the chair . lynne neagle am : yes , go on . carol shillabeer : is that all right ? sorry , i know it 's a very long answer . there is a concern from the neurodevelopmental group to get across that whilst there has been a lot of focus on autism—and we recognise the private member 's bill—there are other neurodevelopmental presentations and there 's a real— . having the broadest view would be advised by them , and i think they 're particularly keen to understand what a future vision and what we call , say , a 'perfect world ' would look like . that 's the piece of work that we 're wanting to do now . in terms of giving advice at the end of the programme and into legacy arrangements , about what the big , big things are , we are still needing to tackle . hefin david am : i mean , i personally took a very personal decision when it came to the member 's bill on autism you were talking about—and that was the advice i received . you need to look at the wider symptoms that are presented beyond autism and other neurological conditions . so , i 'm glad you said that , because it gives me— . because i did n't vote for that bill , and i 'm glad you said that because it gives me some personal reassurance there . but what i do have concerns about is if the increase was n't anticipated to the extent that it was and that the together for children and young people programme has a duty to review capacity , after october who 's going to make sure that that capacity 's reviewed on a strategic basis ? carol shillabeer : so , i should have probably added in that we 've got a piece of work under way at the moment—welsh government commissioned it—by a person called patrick holton , and he is specifically looking at the demands on capacity in relation to neurodevelopmental . i think getting that slightly more independent view of what we think the trends are going to be over the long term will mean we can plan for the long term . we know that money 's been put into this and it has had an important impact , but we now need to be planning for the next three , five , 10 and many years beyond that . there is the integrated autism service . i think there are some conversations , when i talk about the landscape being quite busy , about the sense of where this links as we support people through their lives with a neurodevelopmental issue . so , it 's not just about a childhood thing ; as people move through , we 've got to get much better at that long-term planning . so , that piece of work is really important . we will get the report of that over the next couple of months in order for this sort of perfect-world picture that we want to try to describe to be informed by that . it also connects to the early help and enhanced support , because recognising if we just say half of the people who come for an assessment do n't meet a threshold for a certain category , that 's a lot of people who will need help and support to manage and cope with their condition and their situation . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . if we can just move on now to in-patient care , and if i can just ask you what the programme has been doing to address some of the challenges and opportunities we face in terms of camhs in-patient care , particularly in light of the restrictions that are in place in abergele and tŷ llidiard . carol shillabeer : yes , thank you very much for that question . again , quite a lot of progress has been made in the early part of the programme around in-patients , and you are very well aware of the challenges over the last year or 18 months in relation to both units . i think , certainly , there is some recovery in the position in north wales , and the programme did a peer review visit to north wales , which i think was very helpful . in terms of where the programme has been on this issue , there is some work under way , at quite an advanced stage , around the art of the possible around enhancing the scope of the services . this was quite a tricky thing to start off when you 're in a position where , actually , there 've been some restrictions , to then ask the service to think about going even further , but we really wanted to see what the art of the possible would be if we could attract the right workforce , get the right environment , et cetera , et cetera—so , that piece of work , the review of the specification about what could be possible . clearly , we work very closely with welsh health specialised services committee as the commissioner , so we do n't commission that . we neither performance manage those environments . but , if i can just say , probably the most important part of moving forward now is the longer term work between health and social care in terms of having a much more integrated and joined up approach for children . we believe there would probably be about 100 children who have experienced care in multiple settings . we have n't got that mature approach in terms of these being joined-up teams ; we 've got social care and we 've got healthcare . there is a growing appetite to do something different . there is a meeting with the children 's commissioner on 9 july to explore that . i 've previously had conversations with the chief inspector of care inspectorate wales , for example , and we have now got , i think , a consensus growing that we need to do something very different for children and young people who are in this sort of need for the future . we also know that there 've been some high-profile legal cases as well . so , we 've got to move to that step now . it has been largely successful , the work that has taken place over recent years , but not without its key challenges . lynne neagle am : thank you . and , just briefly on the new specification that whssc are developing , that will enable admissions at weekends and out of hours . how concerned should we be about that being a challenge , particularly in abergele , where staffing has been a major issue ? carol shillabeer : yes . i think we need to be very mindful of ensuring that the right workforce are in place before that gets implemented . the peer review highlighted the challenge of the physical environment , where the unit is , the challenge across north wales of the workforce . these are issues well known by the health board , by the way , so it was n't a surprise to them . but that dialogue about how do we ensure that we 've got the right workforce , because that unit , potentially , could—you know , it 's an isolated unit , and they ’ ve been risk-managing . they 've been managing the types of young people that they can take bearing in mind the workforce that they 've got available , and that 's been entirely the right thing to do . but the downside of that is it 's not as accessible as we would want . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . hefin david has got some questions on workforce now . hefin david am : yes . with regard to the increased camhs posts that have been made available between 2016 and 2018—a 62 per cent increase in camhs posts—we know that there 's likely to be labour market demand , high labour market demand , in those instances , so are the vacancy rates higher in wales than elsewhere , given the increase in those posts to be filled ? carol shillabeer : so , you 're absolutely right . there 's been quite a lot of investment , and there have been quite a lot of new recruits coming to the service . we had in the early days a situation where we were largely robbing peter to pay paul , to be quite frank . so , as new services were being developed , people would move from one part of the system to the other . so , in the early days there was little net gain . that has improved slightly , but we 're in a national context , particularly around nursing and around some specialties in medicine , of a national shortage , so this is not a quick fix . we are starting to see a greater diversity of workforce . so , if i can mention psychology assistants , for example , my own health board is employing more psychology assistants as part of a skill mix team , rather than going to where we might have been more traditionally based . we see some of that through the nhs benchmarking , particularly with england . they have more of that . we 're perhaps a little bit— hefin david am : more of what ? carol shillabeer : they have more skill mix in their workforce . we 're catching up a bit more on that now . hefin david am : just to clarify there , what you 're referring to—there are more nursing and medical staff in the wales system and more psychological staff , experts , in the uk picture . is that— ? carol shillabeer : in the england picture . so , england had a programme called iapt , which is about psychological therapies , and had therefore looked at the skill mix . some of that was— . we 've chatted to colleagues in england , trying to learn—we 're all trying to make improvements in this area , of course ; it 's a uk and international issue—what were their experiences of this psychological therapies approach . because of their vacancies they had to skill mix , and because of the money that they had available—they did n't have as much of a cash injection as perhaps we 've been able to secure . so , they skill mixed much earlier ; we 're skill mixing now . we 're using different types of roles , for example . and if i can just make a plea , really , around recognising the input of the third sector—so , it does n't always have to be an nhs-employed person to work in service provision , direct front-line service provision , and the third sector are offering a significant contribution in a number of areas of our services . and that is one that we will need to cultivate , because , to be quite frank , our recruitment challenges wo n't be solved overnight . we 've recognised that the commissioning numbers for nursing and other professionals have gone up over recent times , but , with the training time , it 's not a quick fix . hefin david am : does the workforce profile remain different , or are they starting to— ? carol shillabeer : they 're starting to come together . there is a—graph 13 in terms of the camhs profile . each year we do the nhs benchmarking , and we can see where we are compared to others , and i would expect over the next year or two that we see a bit more narrowing . hefin david am : so , if you compare a child in wales with a child in england in the last two years who 's been through this , would they have had a different experience as a result , and different clinical advice as a result , or is there consistency despite the difference in workforce profile ? carol shillabeer : that 's quite a big question . hand on heart , could i tell you i absolutely know the detail of that ? no , i could n't . the practice in this area is guided by national institute for health and care excellence guidance , so it 's pretty much guided . we would expect all of our practitioners to be able to work to nice guidance . when you skill mix a team , you enable the right referrals to go to the right person , so you would n't necessarily have a child or young person with particularly complex needs—well , you would match them to the right practitioner for their needs . so , it does— . and we 've seen some of that ; if i just make reference to the panel approach in gwent that 's been developed , a multi-agency panel come together , a referral comes in , it 's then about matching the right service and the right person to the needs that are being presented . so , we can be much more flexible in relation to that , and we have to be careful to use the right resource for the right person , because , if we 've got a resource that is highly specialist , we want them to be dealing with those children and young people . hefin david am : and one of the things you 're able to do—because there 's a lot about the labour market you ca n't control , but one of the things you can control is workforce development and ongoing workforce development . you 've mentioned communities of practice . what other things are being done in addition , and how do the communities of practice work might be a good question , but what else is being done in order to upskill and develop and grow the existing workforce that is presented to you ? carol shillabeer : thank you for that . so , there 's a couple of things around— . i think there 's a huge focus on staff retention now , not just in wales but across the uk . so , we 've got recruitment but we 've got retention . what are the factors that affect retention ? actually , well-being , well-being at work—and you 'll know that within ' a healthier wales ' the focus on staff engagement , staff well-being , has been laid out—the ability to work well in teams and the culture of organisations and services , and , then , as you rightly say , training and development and career opportunities . so , the developments over the last few years have brought training opportunities and career development opportunities as well . i think the community of practice—it 's something that has become a bit of a standard now across these areas—actually brings people together doing collective audit , doing collective reflection on service improvement , and being very clear about learning from one another . and , if you 're a clinician , that gives you a lot of motivation to keep driving forward . so , i think we have the fundamental building blocks in place , but there is more to do around the environment in which our practitioners and our staff operate . hefin david am : what about the welsh language in the health board ? carol shillabeer : thank you very much . there are two elements , if i may , just on that . in your report of last year you highlighted the need to do further work on the use of the welsh language , and have we got enough welsh language practitioners where we need them . we are doing that piece of work . i 'm pleased to say that , over the last few years , i think all health boards have really stepped up in terms of being able to understand the levels of welsh speaking amongst employed staff and where their welsh-speaking communities are . we 're particularly looking at it in terms of in-patient camhs and community intensive services , because , particularly when people are feeling at their most vulnerable , they would choose the language they wish to choose . so , we know we need to respond to that . so , we will be in a position to , by the end of this programme , provide that position statement on what happens next . i would also say , of course , we 've got the welsh language standards that we are all working on at the moment , and we 've got a very clear programme of when we have to be compliant with those standards . so , that element is very high on the priority list . lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy davies has a question about looked-after children . suzy davies am : yes . thank you , chair . obviously , everything you 've been speaking about already , particularly about workforce development , applies to children in care as well , where there 's other work also going on in terms of support . can you give us some indication about how the programme intersects , then , with the outcomes for the children in care work programme ? carol shillabeer : thanks very much for that . so , we have one of our members of the programme board also sitting on the outcomes for children ministerial group , which is good . so , we 've got that cross-link . we also have a director of social services on our programme board and , obviously , they 're very clearly linked in to the outcomes for children . i just made reference to , under the question on specialist camhs in-patients , the need to bring those services together , and that , really , is the need for much stronger working between the outcomes for children group and the together for children and young people programme and the constituent parts . so , i 'm confident that that has been pegged now . we 've got a way forward and there is a consensus that we need to do things together on that . suzy davies am : can you just perhaps give us an example of how that then looks on the ground ? because it 's great that people are talking together , but how would that affect , i do n't know , individual members of the workforce , or , indeed , the children we 're talking about ? carol shillabeer : yes . so , if i just give an example of a unit in south wales that is a social care unit , we 've been having discussions about , 'well , actually , should n't you have a psychologist and good access to psychological therapies , et cetera , et cetera , et cetera ? ' so , we have n't yet got an agreed position on how we 're going to do this , but the position is that something needs to be done , and there is an appetite for and an understanding of the case for change , i believe . but what it will mean , i think , in practice , is that you get much more fluid roles moving across sectors , or we could be designing services that are fully integrated . now , there may be challenges in that , but , you know , let 's get them out on the table . so , in terms of this seamless health and social care system for wales , this is one of the tests of that , i would say : can we , within the next five years , 10 years , really bring that together ? that will take quite a lot of work and commitment . on the looked-after children specifically , we have picked that up , particularly following your previous report , looking specifically at the assessment of young people who are care experienced who are in the system . absolutely , part of the health assessment is emotional health and mental health . we are questioning whether that needs to be a greater part and what the level of support needs to be , particularly because of the backgrounds of children that have led them to be in those circumstances . that 's a core piece of work under the early help and enhanced support work stream , and we 'll be ensuring that that is complete by the end of the programme . suzy davies am : okay . and you 're confident that that will reach children who are being fostered and perhaps do n't have very frequent looked-after children reviews , because , from all other perspectives , things are going fairly well . carol shillabeer : yes . and , of course , there 's the edge-of-care work that the government have been supporting , and , certainly in my own area , under the regional partnership board , we have a start well programme , which is the old children and young people 's partnership programme , where there 's a significant investment in supporting children and young people , families , on the edge of care , which does pick up fostering . suzy davies am : ah , lovely . thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : dawn has a question on transition . dawn bowden am : yes . thank you , chair . we 've heard , not necessarily just in the context of this report , because we 've heard similar evidence around transition arrangements in another committee report when we did the suicide prevention , and i 've in fact only recently—well , just this week , actually—met with community mental health teams in my constituency , and there is still some concern about transitional arrangements from children into adult services . now , i know we had the— . the transition guidance was published a couple of years ago now , and the programme was involved in developing that guidance . but what 's your assessment of the impact that it 's had ? because we clearly are still seeing people falling through the gaps , are n't we ? carol shillabeer : yes , thank you for that . you 're absolutely right ; we developed that guidance and we are currently in the process of the evaluation of that . and , in particular , i know that the children 's commissioner is very focused on transition , not just around children in receipt of emotional mental health support , but children in paediatric wards , and there is a working group with welsh government looking at this . the children 's commissioner has used our guidance to put that on the table to say , 'well , if this works , this needs to be considered as a model for using elsewhere ' . but the big question there is 'if ' . so , we do want to get evaluation . if i were just to give an estimate of where i think this will land , i think it will have made improvements , but there may well be some further work to do in enhancing , supporting , auditing that every child is supported in line with that guidance . so , i talked about community practice and clinical audit : is this something that we make , then , a mandatory audit , each year , that we do that double check ? because it 's one of those things where we know when a child is 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , so what 's stopping us ? if indeed the evaluation says it 's not happening everywhere , it 's not happening early enough , what is stopping us ? we really need to get underneath that . so , my sense will be it will show us , it will be better , but there 's some further work to do , and following that up in terms of audit and making sure that we 've got a systematic approach to dealing with those who have n't had the guidance fully implemented , because it can make a real difference . dawn bowden am : yes , and it seems to me—you 've just talked about having a systematic approach , and it does seem to me that it is a systematic process , is n't it ? so , it should n't be difficult . i know we 're talking about in the health service things should n't be difficult and they are , and one of the gripes—i had a meeting with the community health team—was the problems of the new it systems and so on—let 's not go there at the moment . but , really , this is just about referring children and having a smooth transition from the service being provided to them as a child and then just shifting it over to the adult services . it should n't be difficult . it 's really difficult to get my head around why that is such a problem and why that needs to be so difficult . carol shillabeer : can i add one other dimension in , which i think is going to be quite interesting ? we talk about transitions being an issue—and we know it 's not just in mental health , but it 's elsewhere—then you start to think , 'what if we could reduce transitions ? ' , so you reduce the number of transitions and you manage them better . we are doing a piece of work with government on the potential to explore what a 0-25-type service would be . we know that in different places they have approached that—in australia and places in the uk . there are probably some pros and cons , but should we be moving to a 0-25 . that is moving the transition at the age of 25 , but at least it 's not at the eighteenth birthday . what 's the argument around what adolescent , young people and young adults services are , for example ? that piece of research and understanding— dawn bowden am : you could probably have a gradual transition , then , could n't you ? carol shillabeer : quite potentially . i 've got some people who have joined my own health board who 've worked in that 0-25-type service , and we 're catching up—'tell me what was good about it ? tell me what was not so good about it ? what did the young people themselves think about that ? ' . because if we can manage down the numbers of transitions , there really should be no excuse not to get transitions right , then . dawn bowden am : okay , thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay . we 've got some really important questions now about legacy , because throughout the session this morning you 've referred to ongoing work , really , and that is a major concern for the committee . suzy davies . suzy davies am : yes , thank you , chair , we are a little bit worried that this programme is coming to an end in a matter of months when perhaps its work 's not been completed . obviously , we 've got the welsh government 's strategy for mental health running until 2022 , which is a few years longer . can you tell me whether you think your programme needs to continue , perhaps even if it 's just for the same length of time as together for mental health , or is its work done and it needs to be picked up now by a different system ? carol shillabeer : thank you for that . can i just say , i 've given this so much thought over the time , because i think you might have asked me this question when i came previously ? there are two ways to look at this . i 'm absolutely sure that the issue of children 's emotional and mental health will be one that will be with us for a very long time . we have made a lot of progress , i think , as a society , in talking about this now . we talk about mental health so much more than we ever used to . when i was a child , we never talked about it . i talk to my own children and say , 'what 's going on in your lives at school ? ' , and they talk about this . this is not an issue , if you like , that i believe you can pick up and solve literally in five years . this is one for the long term for us . so , on the one hand , i think my view last year was that , when you have a programme of work , you should have a start , a middle and end , really—otherwise it 's not a programme of work , it 's almost forever—and there is a moment to refresh and reflect on whether that mechanism has done all it should and it should move into a different mechanism . so , my position last year was , 'this will have been running for five years—we 've done a lot of work and made progress on specialist camhs , we have made progress on the whole-school approach and there is a different mechanism for this ' et cetera . my position now is i want to just be really sure and secure that there is a strong arrangement going forward that takes this work , if this programme is going to close . suzy davies am : are you sure ? carol shillabeer : not yet . so , i think , in an earlier question i indicated dialogue going on between myself and welsh government officials . i do n't think there 's a barrier—people are n't saying , 'no , it all needs to just stop ; we 've solved the issue ' , but the exact nature of the legacy arrangements , particularly for early help and enhanced support , are not yet fully determined , or for neurodevelopmental . if it was a choice between nothing being there and continuing this programme , i would be supporting continuing the programme . i do n't think we can stop now . suzy davies am : well , i do n't think any of us would disagree with that , but i suppose there might be a level of concern that the welsh government 's preferred route from now on would be through the regional partnership boards and public services boards . you mentioned that you 've done that work in gwent , down in the south-east of your patch there . it 's quite difficult for us to try and get a picture of how that will work successfully for the whole of wales . i know you 've got your experience in gwent , but have you thought a bit more about how it might look elsewhere , if that 's the route that government decides to pursue ? carol shillabeer : yes . i think the key question in my own mind is : are the regional partnership boards yet ready and mature enough to take this forward ? i 'm the chair of the powys regional partnership board , so i should declare that . there 's a lot being asked of the regional partnership boards at the moment— suzy davies am : well , we 'll be asking them to go with the 'mind over matter ' report , to make sure that that 's delivered upon . carol shillabeer : there 's a lot , you know , ' a healthier wales'— . everyone does feel that the regional partnership boards are a route to really secure multi-agency working , so there is quite a high expectation . my understanding—and this is a rather informal understanding—is that different rpbs are in different places . so , some have retained what used to be the old children and young people partnerships , and perhaps where they have been retained , they may be in a more progressed position . some are looking to have to re-establish those . so , my sense of this is that , i think , possibly the rpbs are n't yet in that position to be ready . our piece of work on early help and enhanced support , in terms of your earlier question about what 's the commitment—that feels that that may well be another year or 18 months of development work , alongside the rpb development work , to get that ready , before we can then more confidently say where we can hand over . suzy davies am : you may not feel able to say it , then , but would be wrong in saying that , actually , it would be quite a good idea to extend the current programme , just to make sure that anyone else who might be able to run on with component parts of it is in the position to do that to our satisfaction ? carol shillabeer : i 'm happy to respond to it . my sense is that , whether it 's the programme or whether it 's something else , something needs to be there . the next stage is really multi-agency , so it may well be that the programme currently has been nhs-led—maybe it needs to be led elsewhere , maybe not . i think there 's a view that this needs to continue . i 'm less wedded to it having to be the together for children and young people programme . it may be seen as a convenient mechanism—it 's already established , we 've got a programme team et cetera , so it may be seen as a ready sort of solution . i 'm not wedded to that . what i feel strongly about is that we 've got to have the right mechanism to take it forward . suzy davies am : can i just push you on one thing there ? you mentioned , perhaps , the nhs could lead on the work , for example . is there a risk of fragmentation if we start looking— ? i 'm just thinking—i mean , we 've got the elements here : we 've got the nhs , there 's the whole-school approach , early help and enhanced support and intervention , as you mentioned earlier . if that goes to one of the players in that multi-agency approach , is there a risk that they might become too dominant , inadvertently— ? carol shillabeer : if i can just clarify—apologies if i was n't clear . i said the current programme has been nhs-led , and that might be a reason to change . suzy davies am : to mix it up a bit . oh , right , okay . anything else you want me to pursue on that— ? lynne neagle am : can i just clarify for the record , carol—because we put this to the minister last week—are you looking at asking the regional partnership boards to take this work over from october 2019 ? are you saying clearly to the committee that you do not feel that all regional partnership boards are ready for that challenge at this point ? carol shillabeer : i 'm saying that on a more , if you like it , uniformed and informal basis , we 're doing some work with the children 's commissioner now in terms of— . i know the children 's commissioner 's very interested in how rpbs are managing , developing and dealing with the issues of children and young people 's concerns . we 're working with her to understand and to mirror alongside her the understanding of the rpbs . what i would say is that there has been some preparatory work by government around supporting rpbs . so , for example , in the integrated care fund guidance last year , there was a specific reference to child and adolescent emotional mental health , which i welcomed . i 've also welcomed , literally last week , a letter to all rpb chairs giving an allocation of £200,000 per rpb to support this further work in terms of child and adolescent emotional and mental health and the early help and support element . so , all of these things are in the right direction . my sense , and i need to stress it 's a sense because we have n't done that piece of work , is different rpbs are in different places . so , how confident can we be at the october date that we could hand over ? my sense is , just to safeguard , having a mechanism in place for the next 12 to 18 months to guide this through might be advisable , and that 's what i 'm talking to officials about . lynne neagle am : and that would either be an extension of the together for children and young people programme or something else . okay , thank you . suzy davies am : thank you . because i think there is a question , is n't there , about whether the rpbs will make this enough of a priority ? i 'm a bit nervous that it might get lost in that huge amount of work you said they might have . just a final question from me : how are you establishing what the young people themselves think about the end of the programme ? are they bothered about the structure of this at all or are they just concerned that they 're getting help ? how 's the stakeholder group feeding into this ? carol shillabeer : i 've not been blown over in the rush of people saying , 'do n't go anywhere . ' [ laughter . ] it 's a really important matter for young people . i know that later on you 're meeting with the youth parliament , you 're having a joint session , which is fantastic . we 've had contact with the youth parliament because we know it 's one of their top three issues . so , it runs in the vein of that this is going to be a long-term matter for young people , i think . whether they have a specific view on the programme , i do n't know . i 've not heard that . but i 'm pretty sure they will be vocal in saying , 'we have to have these developments continue . ' it is a major issue , we 're not there yet—maybe some progress has been made but there 's still a lot to do—and i think we 'll need to be able to respond to that . suzy davies am : anything particularly you want in addition to that ? lynne neagle am : no , i think that 's fine . and if i can just say that it was really great last week at the early help and enhanced day to see young people so central to the day all the way through . it was very , very important and very welcome . suzy davies am : carol , thank you for that . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay . we have come to the end of our time . we had a lot of things that we wanted to cover with you . we might need to drop you a line about a couple of things that we have n't covered , but can i thank you for your attendance this morning ? as usual , you 'll be sent a transcript to check for accuracy following the meeting , but thank you very much for your time . carol shillabeer : thank you , all . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about early help and enhanced support . </s> lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've got some questions now on early help and enhanced support from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . good morning . in terms of local primary mental health support services , what is your understanding of the issues leading to some health boards not meeting the mental health ( wales ) measure 2010 targets for assessment and therapy for children and young people , and how much of this is due to an increase in demand ? carol shillabeer : yes , thanks very much . so , it 's important to say , i think , at the outset , just by way of reminder , that the target , quite rightly , changed for children and young people . the target changed some years ago for adults , so it was only right that there was an equalisation around children . so , the services were working , a couple of years ago , with significant demand and then a change in the standard . i think you 're absolutely right ; your question alludes to the fact that some health boards are struggling to maintain the full performance around seeing children , particularly within the 28 days . i would say— . and we 've had some discussion about whether the impact of the mental health measure has actually drawn perhaps some of the workforce , the staff , who would have been working at that earlier stage in local primary mental health , into a bit more of the secondary element , which is why the review being undertaken by the nhs delivery unit into primary care camhs is so critical , because , actually , if we do n't have—and i believe we do n't have—enough capacity in that part of the system , then referrals will move towards the more specialist end of this . so , i think we will have seen , by the evidence submission , that demand has increased , not just in wales but in the uk , and it has increased significantly . we are doing reasonably well at meeting that demand—so , we have more contacts , more staff , shorter access times , so that is a good news story . we 've not got it completely sustained at this stage , and therefore the focus of the delivery unit 's primary care camhs report is what more can we do in that part of the system to help to see children and young people or provide consultation and liaison to others and support people at that level of intervention . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . i know , from my own experience as a constituency am , i have families who tell me that they ca n't get into the early interventions and eventually things just become so—they end up in the more specialist ones and believe that that's— . and i do n't like to put it in resource terms , but it 's false economy in terms of the impact on the child and the family , but , obviously , in terms of cost as well . do you find that that 's a common theme across wales ? carol shillabeer : yes . i think that the thrust of that is absolutely right . so , we absolutely need to see children and families at the earliest intervention and that 's why this is a whole system , not compartmentalised . i think there have been really good attempts in a couple of areas of that greater reach out and that earlier help—hot clinics and those sorts of initiatives that help people not to get in a long queue for specialist camhs , but can be supported , often by telephone , at that earlier stage . my sense of where we go next , in terms of , you know , you talk about early help and enhanced support for all the 'missing middle ' , as you referred to it in your report , is to make sure we 've got a fully joined-up , multi-agency team approach to that . and i think that will need some resourcing to support that , yet to be fully determined . but yesterday 's announcement about youth work , the government 's commitment to primary care , camhs , et cetera—that 's all going to be very helpful to prevent those young people having to go into specialist camhs . and just a final note on that , if i may—at the beginning of the programme , we had a report from hafal called 'making sense ' and there were 10 key asks , if you like , of the system and the service from young people who had experience of the service . they said , 'please do n't medicalise it'—i 'm paraphrasing now , of course—'please do n't medicalise it ; please focus on supporting teachers and others who can support us at an earlier stage and then , when we really need help , please ensure that it is there at that more specialist level . ' that 's been a bit of a guiding principle for the programme . so , that reflects the questions that you were asking , really . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . what are the outcomes of the stakeholder workshop held last week on early help and enhanced support ? and how are the actions going to be taken forward and implemented ? and also , given that the together for children and young people programme comes to an end in october of this year , who , in your view , is best placed to forward this work stream , and what will be the biggest challenges ? it 's a bit of a long question , so , break it up however you like . carol shillabeer : that 's absolutely fine . janet finch-saunders am : and what will be the biggest challenges that they will face ? carol shillabeer : yes , i think that 's helpfully laid out in three stages . so , you 're absolutely right , there was a highly successful workshop last week really focusing on early help and enhanced support . it brought all of the agencies together , which was—and actually had a bit of a waiting list , apparently , for places . so , there was a lot of demand and a lot of interest in this . in relation to the next steps , there is a planning group reflection in early july , in terms of the outcomes of the workshop or the outputs of the workshop , and there are three commitments that have been made to this stage . one is that we develop those values-led approaches that will bring multiple agencies together to have that common purpose . the second one is to develop the ingredients for successful working in this area , and then , thirdly , to determine or propose priorities and sequencing of next steps . so , that 's the next stage of that . i 'm pretty sure we 'll come on shortly—or hopefully—to the potential of the regional partnership boards . there is some work that we are doing as a programme with the children 's commissioner in terms of working more with the regional partnership boards in taking forward this work . so , that will run alongside . but during the summer , then , we will be developing that framework approach , and we will be participating in the association of directors of social services conference in september , and then a follow-up workshop in october on this matter . on your question of 'well , what happens after the programme ? ' we are currently working on legacy arrangements for the programme . i 'm pretty secure on the specialist camhs element . that will move , most likely , to the camhs network , which is part of the nhs mental health network . i actually chair the mental health network and that 's one part of that . the whole-school approach element is already settled in government and we 've got a connection in to that . the question that 's outstanding is where the early help and enhanced support and the neurodevelopmental will go . i am currently in discussions with welsh government officials around that . i can be very clear of my own view that there needs to be a confident and clear legacy arrangement for this work . we can not afford that we 've come so far for this not now to proceed . i think there 's a huge momentum behind this . i do n't see there would be any obstacles—i hope—in getting that commitment translated into a strong approach , as we move forward . so , i 'm not in a position to say , 'and the legacy arrangements will be— ' , but i am in a position to say that i 'm having those discussions with welsh government officials . they know my view that we 've got to put something in place that is strong and secure as we move forward , and i believe that they are supportive of that . </s>
<s> what did carol shillabeer think about the legacy arrangements when talking about early help and enhanced support ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : thank you . what are the outcomes of the stakeholder workshop held last week on early help and enhanced support ? and how are the actions going to be taken forward and implemented ? and also , given that the together for children and young people programme comes to an end in october of this year , who , in your view , is best placed to forward this work stream , and what will be the biggest challenges ? it 's a bit of a long question , so , break it up however you like . carol shillabeer : that 's absolutely fine . janet finch-saunders am : and what will be the biggest challenges that they will face ? </s>
<s> what were the outcomes of stakeholder workshops on early help ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : thank you . what are the outcomes of the stakeholder workshop held last week on early help and enhanced support ? and how are the actions going to be taken forward and implemented ? and also , given that the together for children and young people programme comes to an end in october of this year , who , in your view , is best placed to forward this work stream , and what will be the biggest challenges ? it 's a bit of a long question , so , break it up however you like . carol shillabeer : that 's absolutely fine . janet finch-saunders am : and what will be the biggest challenges that they will face ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about neurodevelopmental service . </s> lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've got some questions now from hefin david on neurodevelopmental services . hefin david am : i think , chair , i should have declared an interest here , as my daughter has been diagnosed with autism and is currently going through the process of receiving neurodevelopmental speech and language support particularly . we 're seeing an increase in neurodevelopmental referrals , and that will increase further in the future . can you give us an explanation as to why this demand is growing and how we 're going to meet capacity to deliver and for support for those children ? carol shillabeer : thank you . they 're very big questions in terms of 'why ' . i 'm not sure that anyone really knows why , if i 'm honest , although there is a lot of academic research going on . what we do know is that we are starting to see the scale of those referrals coming through . so , in the information provided , i refer to the nhs digital prevalence report in england , which indicates that about 5.5 per cent of two to four-year-olds have a mental disorder . now , that sounds a bit shocking when we say that , but that 's in the international classification scaling , and , of that , certainly , 2.5 per cent is around autism . i can just testify , in real life , that demand is absolutely growing . so , if i just take my own health board for a moment , we usually have about 75 referrals per year . last year we had 300 . so , that has felt very difficult to manage . if i can just give you a sense of what we 've done so far and then what i think is next , i want to recognise the work of dr cath norton and the steering group that 's been established on neurodevelopmental issues under the programme . they had a standing start . they 've done a lot of very , very good work . we now have seven teams in place across wales . we now have a national pathway . we now have a community-of-practice-type environment , and we 're really getting into this . good progress has been made . more people have been seen . more people have been assessed . so , we have made progress . but i 've got a long list of considerations that i think respond to your question . one is that most referrals that come through , the clinicians tell me , are seeking support to move through what they perceive to be a gateway for educational support . so , that is often the reason why people come . now , that is obviously going to be linked to the whole-school approach and how we can support that . demand is outstripping supply . so , our clinical teams are concerned about how do they keep up . so , if i just take my own example of 300 in the last year , we 're looking to try and put some additional capacity in to support seeing those families , but also then to understand what the long-term trajectory is going to be . because we 've put these teams in , because we 've got the new pathway , has that opened a gate and we 've got a lot of backlog or is that the pattern ? hefin david am : can i just ask a question there ? so , with regard to the 75 to 300 increase—in the space of a year was that ? carol shillabeer : in a year , yes . hefin david am : did you anticipate that or was that something that just came totally unexpected ? carol shillabeer : i think we anticipated a few more , and just to say that in my— hefin david am : but not on that scale . carol shillabeer : no , not on that scale . and in my own health board—i 'm just referring to my own , and i 'm happy to share the information on this—we already had a service in place . so , it was n't as if we had nothing in place previously . we had a nice-compliant service already in place , but we knew we needed to expand that , which we have done , but we did n't anticipate 300 . so , this is happening not just across wales , actually , but across the uk—so , this greater recognition , the desire for families coming forward to access that support and them seeing this as a route , which is really important . what i would also say , and this is part of the bigger picture that we need to consider going forward , is that only about 40 per cent to 50 per cent of those families that come forward have what i would call or the clinicians would call a diagnosis—so , a threshold or whatever term you want to use that takes people through to that educational support . so , we 've got a lot of people who are under that threshold , but that 's a lot of people who still need help and support . i 'm trying to very fairly and , i hope , appropriately represent the very strong views coming from the group—the workstream under the programme . we 've got to tackle all of that . it 's not going to be good enough for us just to focus our attention on those children and young people and their families who reach a threshold , because there are needs elsewhere as well , and some of that will overlap with the early help and enhanced support . some of that overlaps with learning disability services . can i just mention a few more things , as i 'm on roll on neurodevelopmental ? hefin david am : it 's up to the chair . lynne neagle am : yes , go on . carol shillabeer : is that all right ? sorry , i know it 's a very long answer . there is a concern from the neurodevelopmental group to get across that whilst there has been a lot of focus on autism—and we recognise the private member 's bill—there are other neurodevelopmental presentations and there 's a real— . having the broadest view would be advised by them , and i think they 're particularly keen to understand what a future vision and what we call , say , a 'perfect world ' would look like . that 's the piece of work that we 're wanting to do now . in terms of giving advice at the end of the programme and into legacy arrangements , about what the big , big things are , we are still needing to tackle . hefin david am : i mean , i personally took a very personal decision when it came to the member 's bill on autism you were talking about—and that was the advice i received . you need to look at the wider symptoms that are presented beyond autism and other neurological conditions . so , i 'm glad you said that , because it gives me— . because i did n't vote for that bill , and i 'm glad you said that because it gives me some personal reassurance there . but what i do have concerns about is if the increase was n't anticipated to the extent that it was and that the together for children and young people programme has a duty to review capacity , after october who 's going to make sure that that capacity 's reviewed on a strategic basis ? </s>
<s> what did carol shillabeer think about how to meet the capacity to deliver when answering a question about neurodevelopmental service ? </s> hefin david am : i think , chair , i should have declared an interest here , as my daughter has been diagnosed with autism and is currently going through the process of receiving neurodevelopmental speech and language support particularly . we 're seeing an increase in neurodevelopmental referrals , and that will increase further in the future . can you give us an explanation as to why this demand is growing and how we 're going to meet capacity to deliver and for support for those children ? </s>
<s> what did carol shillabeer find unexpected when talking about neurodevelopmental service ? </s> hefin david am : did you anticipate that or was that something that just came totally unexpected ? carol shillabeer : i think we anticipated a few more , and just to say that in my— hefin david am : but not on that scale . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about in-patient care and workforce . </s> lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . if we can just move on now to in-patient care , and if i can just ask you what the programme has been doing to address some of the challenges and opportunities we face in terms of camhs in-patient care , particularly in light of the restrictions that are in place in abergele and tŷ llidiard . carol shillabeer : yes , thank you very much for that question . again , quite a lot of progress has been made in the early part of the programme around in-patients , and you are very well aware of the challenges over the last year or 18 months in relation to both units . i think , certainly , there is some recovery in the position in north wales , and the programme did a peer review visit to north wales , which i think was very helpful . in terms of where the programme has been on this issue , there is some work under way , at quite an advanced stage , around the art of the possible around enhancing the scope of the services . this was quite a tricky thing to start off when you 're in a position where , actually , there 've been some restrictions , to then ask the service to think about going even further , but we really wanted to see what the art of the possible would be if we could attract the right workforce , get the right environment , et cetera , et cetera—so , that piece of work , the review of the specification about what could be possible . clearly , we work very closely with welsh health specialised services committee as the commissioner , so we do n't commission that . we neither performance manage those environments . but , if i can just say , probably the most important part of moving forward now is the longer term work between health and social care in terms of having a much more integrated and joined up approach for children . we believe there would probably be about 100 children who have experienced care in multiple settings . we have n't got that mature approach in terms of these being joined-up teams ; we 've got social care and we 've got healthcare . there is a growing appetite to do something different . there is a meeting with the children 's commissioner on 9 july to explore that . i 've previously had conversations with the chief inspector of care inspectorate wales , for example , and we have now got , i think , a consensus growing that we need to do something very different for children and young people who are in this sort of need for the future . we also know that there 've been some high-profile legal cases as well . so , we 've got to move to that step now . it has been largely successful , the work that has taken place over recent years , but not without its key challenges . lynne neagle am : thank you . and , just briefly on the new specification that whssc are developing , that will enable admissions at weekends and out of hours . how concerned should we be about that being a challenge , particularly in abergele , where staffing has been a major issue ? carol shillabeer : yes . i think we need to be very mindful of ensuring that the right workforce are in place before that gets implemented . the peer review highlighted the challenge of the physical environment , where the unit is , the challenge across north wales of the workforce . these are issues well known by the health board , by the way , so it was n't a surprise to them . but that dialogue about how do we ensure that we 've got the right workforce , because that unit , potentially , could—you know , it 's an isolated unit , and they ’ ve been risk-managing . they 've been managing the types of young people that they can take bearing in mind the workforce that they 've got available , and that 's been entirely the right thing to do . but the downside of that is it 's not as accessible as we would want . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . hefin david has got some questions on workforce now . hefin david am : yes . with regard to the increased camhs posts that have been made available between 2016 and 2018—a 62 per cent increase in camhs posts—we know that there 's likely to be labour market demand , high labour market demand , in those instances , so are the vacancy rates higher in wales than elsewhere , given the increase in those posts to be filled ? carol shillabeer : so , you 're absolutely right . there 's been quite a lot of investment , and there have been quite a lot of new recruits coming to the service . we had in the early days a situation where we were largely robbing peter to pay paul , to be quite frank . so , as new services were being developed , people would move from one part of the system to the other . so , in the early days there was little net gain . that has improved slightly , but we 're in a national context , particularly around nursing and around some specialties in medicine , of a national shortage , so this is not a quick fix . we are starting to see a greater diversity of workforce . so , if i can mention psychology assistants , for example , my own health board is employing more psychology assistants as part of a skill mix team , rather than going to where we might have been more traditionally based . we see some of that through the nhs benchmarking , particularly with england . they have more of that . we 're perhaps a little bit— hefin david am : more of what ? carol shillabeer : they have more skill mix in their workforce . we 're catching up a bit more on that now . hefin david am : just to clarify there , what you 're referring to—there are more nursing and medical staff in the wales system and more psychological staff , experts , in the uk picture . is that— ? carol shillabeer : in the england picture . so , england had a programme called iapt , which is about psychological therapies , and had therefore looked at the skill mix . some of that was— . we 've chatted to colleagues in england , trying to learn—we 're all trying to make improvements in this area , of course ; it 's a uk and international issue—what were their experiences of this psychological therapies approach . because of their vacancies they had to skill mix , and because of the money that they had available—they did n't have as much of a cash injection as perhaps we 've been able to secure . so , they skill mixed much earlier ; we 're skill mixing now . we 're using different types of roles , for example . and if i can just make a plea , really , around recognising the input of the third sector—so , it does n't always have to be an nhs-employed person to work in service provision , direct front-line service provision , and the third sector are offering a significant contribution in a number of areas of our services . and that is one that we will need to cultivate , because , to be quite frank , our recruitment challenges wo n't be solved overnight . we 've recognised that the commissioning numbers for nursing and other professionals have gone up over recent times , but , with the training time , it 's not a quick fix . hefin david am : does the workforce profile remain different , or are they starting to— ? carol shillabeer : they 're starting to come together . there is a—graph 13 in terms of the camhs profile . each year we do the nhs benchmarking , and we can see where we are compared to others , and i would expect over the next year or two that we see a bit more narrowing . hefin david am : so , if you compare a child in wales with a child in england in the last two years who 's been through this , would they have had a different experience as a result , and different clinical advice as a result , or is there consistency despite the difference in workforce profile ? carol shillabeer : that 's quite a big question . hand on heart , could i tell you i absolutely know the detail of that ? no , i could n't . the practice in this area is guided by national institute for health and care excellence guidance , so it 's pretty much guided . we would expect all of our practitioners to be able to work to nice guidance . when you skill mix a team , you enable the right referrals to go to the right person , so you would n't necessarily have a child or young person with particularly complex needs—well , you would match them to the right practitioner for their needs . so , it does— . and we 've seen some of that ; if i just make reference to the panel approach in gwent that 's been developed , a multi-agency panel come together , a referral comes in , it 's then about matching the right service and the right person to the needs that are being presented . so , we can be much more flexible in relation to that , and we have to be careful to use the right resource for the right person , because , if we 've got a resource that is highly specialist , we want them to be dealing with those children and young people . hefin david am : and one of the things you 're able to do—because there 's a lot about the labour market you ca n't control , but one of the things you can control is workforce development and ongoing workforce development . you 've mentioned communities of practice . what other things are being done in addition , and how do the communities of practice work might be a good question , but what else is being done in order to upskill and develop and grow the existing workforce that is presented to you ? carol shillabeer : thank you for that . so , there 's a couple of things around— . i think there 's a huge focus on staff retention now , not just in wales but across the uk . so , we 've got recruitment but we 've got retention . what are the factors that affect retention ? actually , well-being , well-being at work—and you 'll know that within ' a healthier wales ' the focus on staff engagement , staff well-being , has been laid out—the ability to work well in teams and the culture of organisations and services , and , then , as you rightly say , training and development and career opportunities . so , the developments over the last few years have brought training opportunities and career development opportunities as well . i think the community of practice—it 's something that has become a bit of a standard now across these areas—actually brings people together doing collective audit , doing collective reflection on service improvement , and being very clear about learning from one another . and , if you 're a clinician , that gives you a lot of motivation to keep driving forward . so , i think we have the fundamental building blocks in place , but there is more to do around the environment in which our practitioners and our staff operate . hefin david am : what about the welsh language in the health board ? </s>
<s> what did carol dhillabeer think about the most important part of the work of in-patient care at that time ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . if we can just move on now to in-patient care , and if i can just ask you what the programme has been doing to address some of the challenges and opportunities we face in terms of camhs in-patient care , particularly in light of the restrictions that are in place in abergele and tŷ llidiard . </s>
<s> what did carol dhillabeer think about the community of practice when talking about workforce ? </s> hefin david am : so , if you compare a child in wales with a child in england in the last two years who 's been through this , would they have had a different experience as a result , and different clinical advice as a result , or is there consistency despite the difference in workforce profile ? carol shillabeer : that 's quite a big question . hand on heart , could i tell you i absolutely know the detail of that ? no , i could n't . the practice in this area is guided by national institute for health and care excellence guidance , so it 's pretty much guided . we would expect all of our practitioners to be able to work to nice guidance . when you skill mix a team , you enable the right referrals to go to the right person , so you would n't necessarily have a child or young person with particularly complex needs—well , you would match them to the right practitioner for their needs . so , it does— . and we 've seen some of that ; if i just make reference to the panel approach in gwent that 's been developed , a multi-agency panel come together , a referral comes in , it 's then about matching the right service and the right person to the needs that are being presented . so , we can be much more flexible in relation to that , and we have to be careful to use the right resource for the right person , because , if we 've got a resource that is highly specialist , we want them to be dealing with those children and young people . hefin david am : and one of the things you 're able to do—because there 's a lot about the labour market you ca n't control , but one of the things you can control is workforce development and ongoing workforce development . you 've mentioned communities of practice . what other things are being done in addition , and how do the communities of practice work might be a good question , but what else is being done in order to upskill and develop and grow the existing workforce that is presented to you ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about looked-after children and transitional-arrangement . </s> lynne neagle am : dawn has a question on transition . dawn bowden am : yes . thank you , chair . we 've heard , not necessarily just in the context of this report , because we 've heard similar evidence around transition arrangements in another committee report when we did the suicide prevention , and i 've in fact only recently—well , just this week , actually—met with community mental health teams in my constituency , and there is still some concern about transitional arrangements from children into adult services . now , i know we had the— . the transition guidance was published a couple of years ago now , and the programme was involved in developing that guidance . but what 's your assessment of the impact that it 's had ? because we clearly are still seeing people falling through the gaps , are n't we ? carol shillabeer : yes , thank you for that . you 're absolutely right ; we developed that guidance and we are currently in the process of the evaluation of that . and , in particular , i know that the children 's commissioner is very focused on transition , not just around children in receipt of emotional mental health support , but children in paediatric wards , and there is a working group with welsh government looking at this . the children 's commissioner has used our guidance to put that on the table to say , 'well , if this works , this needs to be considered as a model for using elsewhere ' . but the big question there is 'if ' . so , we do want to get evaluation . if i were just to give an estimate of where i think this will land , i think it will have made improvements , but there may well be some further work to do in enhancing , supporting , auditing that every child is supported in line with that guidance . so , i talked about community practice and clinical audit : is this something that we make , then , a mandatory audit , each year , that we do that double check ? because it 's one of those things where we know when a child is 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , so what 's stopping us ? if indeed the evaluation says it 's not happening everywhere , it 's not happening early enough , what is stopping us ? we really need to get underneath that . so , my sense will be it will show us , it will be better , but there 's some further work to do , and following that up in terms of audit and making sure that we 've got a systematic approach to dealing with those who have n't had the guidance fully implemented , because it can make a real difference . dawn bowden am : yes , and it seems to me—you 've just talked about having a systematic approach , and it does seem to me that it is a systematic process , is n't it ? so , it should n't be difficult . i know we 're talking about in the health service things should n't be difficult and they are , and one of the gripes—i had a meeting with the community health team—was the problems of the new it systems and so on—let 's not go there at the moment . but , really , this is just about referring children and having a smooth transition from the service being provided to them as a child and then just shifting it over to the adult services . it should n't be difficult . it 's really difficult to get my head around why that is such a problem and why that needs to be so difficult . carol shillabeer : can i add one other dimension in , which i think is going to be quite interesting ? we talk about transitions being an issue—and we know it 's not just in mental health , but it 's elsewhere—then you start to think , 'what if we could reduce transitions ? ' , so you reduce the number of transitions and you manage them better . we are doing a piece of work with government on the potential to explore what a 0-25-type service would be . we know that in different places they have approached that—in australia and places in the uk . there are probably some pros and cons , but should we be moving to a 0-25 . that is moving the transition at the age of 25 , but at least it 's not at the eighteenth birthday . what 's the argument around what adolescent , young people and young adults services are , for example ? that piece of research and understanding— dawn bowden am : you could probably have a gradual transition , then , could n't you ? carol shillabeer : quite potentially . i 've got some people who have joined my own health board who 've worked in that 0-25-type service , and we 're catching up—'tell me what was good about it ? tell me what was not so good about it ? what did the young people themselves think about that ? ' . because if we can manage down the numbers of transitions , there really should be no excuse not to get transitions right , then . </s>
<s> what did carol shillabeer think about the reasons that brought the programme to intersect with the outcomes for children when talking about looked-after children ? </s> lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy davies has a question about looked-after children . suzy davies am : yes . thank you , chair . obviously , everything you 've been speaking about already , particularly about workforce development , applies to children in care as well , where there 's other work also going on in terms of support . can you give us some indication about how the programme intersects , then , with the outcomes for the children in care work programme ? </s>
<s> what did carol dhillabeer think about the development of transition guidance when talking about transitional arrangement ? </s> lynne neagle am : dawn has a question on transition . dawn bowden am : yes . thank you , chair . we 've heard , not necessarily just in the context of this report , because we 've heard similar evidence around transition arrangements in another committee report when we did the suicide prevention , and i 've in fact only recently—well , just this week , actually—met with community mental health teams in my constituency , and there is still some concern about transitional arrangements from children into adult services . now , i know we had the— . the transition guidance was published a couple of years ago now , and the programme was involved in developing that guidance . but what 's your assessment of the impact that it 's had ? because we clearly are still seeing people falling through the gaps , are n't we ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : 's to do now is to decide how to fulfil what your stuff is , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so in that sense project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , sure . industrial designer : so it does kind of make sense , yeah . project manager : okay , well marketing : it kinda does make sense , does n't it , because when we get into the end of meeting we 're kind of talking about action and design as opposed to background . project manager : okay . marketing : everything i have is kinda background . project manager : okay we all ready to go ? well how um on the in this meeting then if we um i 'll just just recap on the minutes from the last meeting . and we uh decided on decided on our our target group being fifteen to thirty five , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and we decided that it was gon na be non-rechargeable battery-powered , that we 're gon na group our audio-visual and other functions into into those categories , um . and i told you guys about the three new requirements about ignoring teletext , ignoring everything except the tv , and trying to incorporate the the uh corporate colour and slogan . um so that was the last meeting . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : is there anything have i forgotten anything ? is that everything ? marketing : uh that sounds . project manager : okay . um so if we have the three presentations , and then if you have anything to kind of that you know you 're gon na want to discuss , maybe just make a note of it , and we 'll have all the discussion at the end . that might be a better idea this time . marketing : sure . project manager : and so if we start off uh with andrew and then craig and then david , marketing : okay . project manager : if that 's alright . marketing : sure . project manager : um and then after that we 'll have to make some decisions about stuff , right . marketing : yeah , cool . project manager : so if you wan na take this . marketing : why do n't i get that ? hmm . project manager : screwed in quite tightly . uh what did uh how did we leave it with speech recognition now ? we did we say we were gon na try maybe incorporate it but we had n't made a definite decision on that ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : right . oh i should also point out that um the you know the kind of final objective of this meeting is to reach a decision on the concepts of the product . marketing : okay . project manager : so um that 's kind of the end result hopefully . marketing : okay . um alright so c is it function f_ eight ? project manager : uh-huh . hopefully appear in a wee second . marketing : hmm . come on . i think it 's working . project manager : up there we go . marketing : okay great s so let me just start this . okay great . so um uh s move on . uh-huh oh where 'd it all go ? project manager : oh no . marketing : it 's not good . okay lem me just see where i can find it . this looks more like it . i think i just opened up the template . project manager : oh right . marketing : sorry about that . okay alright so let 's have a look here . project manager : here we go . marketing : okay so this was the method that um i 've taken . uh basically what i wan na do here , before we get into it uh too far , is i want to show you all the background information i have that i think we need to acknowledge if we want this to be successful . project manager : okay . marketing : and uh and then sorta g go through some of the way that i 've dealt with that information , and then sort of bring us all together into it to see sorta see how this fits in with the overall vision . um so i 've tried to take a whole lot of market research and summarise it for us , and then ide identify uh trends that are are sort of in sync and are important to our our uh p project plan that we have so far , and then uh initiate a kind of discussion on design options so that it sorta helps us to to narrow in on on aspects that will inform other uh other elements of the of the project . does that make sense , tha that sort of strategy ? project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i thought that that will impact on the rest of what we do , so that 's why i suggested we get in this . project manager : aye a fair point definitely . marketing : okay so out of um different uh figures and ratings ob uh of people in general , um consumers in general , the number one thing that was found was that uh the br t television remote control , a fancy look and feel , okay , and not , it specified , not a functional look or or feel , uh b f f fancy . project manager : okay . marketing : um however , this is where we kinda have to be very , i think , creative about it . number two was that it be innovative . okay so that tells me that we have to find a way to be innovative without a adding just unnecessary um sort of functional bits to it . uh and third priority uh for ease of use , so again that kind of gives us a general picture of how it has to be , um quite user friendly while still having technology . so it i 'll just say right away as a bit of a foreshadowing into how we proceed with this in terms of m marketing , is that i think um what we should think about is how the um about how the innovation uh contributes to the look and feel , and not so much to the functionality of it . project manager : aye right . marketing : for example like when you pick it up and push it like it all lights up or something , you know what i mean , like , or it 's got something else to it that just seems innovative project manager : uh-huh . marketing : because obviously the thing that the message here is ease of use . so how do you make innovation make something more more easy to use ? well that 's i guess where we 're gon na go with this . project manager : okay . marketing : okay then there 's the other aspect of the back the the market um research i have here is on fashion style , okay , which as we 've agreed is a priority . uh top european fashion trend um that i read about says there 's this emerging theme of fruit and vegetables , okay , industrial designer : project manager : marketing : especially in clothes and furniture . and when i first saw that i thought hmm , well do we want to actually try and think about this trend and how we add something to it , or we get right into it , or we completely steer away from it , project manager : okay okay . marketing : do you know what i mean ? so my my feeling is that we w do want to observe this trend , but we want to think also about the fact that it sort of has to fit in with something which is not specifically electronics . um 'cause i think what we 're in what we 're in is partly sort of home decor , partly something like a computer , um so i think we might wan na be careful about how you know how quickly we create like a remote control in the shape of an apple or something , project manager : marketing : i think that would be pushing it . industrial designer : marketing : and then in terms of m material trends are for things to be soft and spongy and sort of , you might say ergonomic or or friendly to handle , which is which also in indicated that last year this was this was not the case . so um probably a lot of the competition on the market will be still in last year 's mode , so if we try and really capitalise on that , i think that 'll be in our favour . um so these this is the summary of everything . um style is number one uh thing in the in the market of who we 're selling to . uh innovative design technology 's also a must in that it 's seen it 'd be seen to be uh cutting edge , uh but ease of use t has to be insured throughout . that was like the number three thing . and then at the end there are vibrant natural colours um that 's the way i interpreted it anyway , softness in materials , shape , and function , and so i 've written at written at the bottom to give us sort of a context of discussion , mac ipods , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : something which is , i 'd have to say very high-tech , ten gigabytes , whatever , but when you hold it in your hand there 's like no buttons . project manager : mm that 's true , yeah . marketing : you know what a mac ipod is ? i 'm thinking however mac ipod is sort of last year 's because it 's very hard and sort of glassy and glossy , so i 'm thinking if we imagine that we 're taking some of the features of a mac ipod and we 're then making it s more of like a more of like a comfortable type of or more of like a maybe more vibrant to friendly thing to have . um and then so this is w with all that information what i 'm what i 'm suggesting in this slide here is that we we take these ideas , and as we get into more the more um techni like sort of production side of things , that we think about shape , materials , and themes or series that go throughout . sort of like a i dunno like um we think of some kind of a thin theme that unifies it all , that we agree on , uh sorta like a marketing identity . um does that make sense ? yeah . so so like i threw out a few ideas there just to kinda get us thinking along those lines like lemon , lime , i dunno , green colours , pe whatever , it 's just an idea , 'cause i 'm thinking that some of these ideas will seem quite coherent if we use them in terms of their what people associate this them with in terms of texture , shape , colours , things like that . project manager : mm 'kay . great . marketing : like um the ones the ones which i 'm most fond of in terms of giving like a theme to it would be like um like lemon or something like that , you know something which is , like you see a lot in in other areas . like i see lots of websites and things that seem to associate with like lemon and lime and project manager : okay . marketing : so anyway it 's just just an idea . project manager : yeah . marketing : i 'm thinking maybe we could incorporate some of these features into a fairly um into something which is which seems to have something to it which is almost gimmicky because like um like something to do with like lighting within it . like you know just within the simple sense , when you pick up a phone and touch a button it uh lights up , q usually the buttons light up . how can we build on that ? maybe like it could light up in different colours or something or or people could buy the buy the control and then it comes with different like covers or something so . project manager : okay . marketing : anyway those are that 's all i have , project manager : that 's great . marketing : but uh hopefully we can we can revisit those ideas when we get into project manager : uh-huh . okay great . um thank you for that . uh craig do you wan na uh plug yours in then ? user interface : is it working ? project manager : mm . not quite . marketing : did you press f_ eight ? industrial designer : it 's probably not sending . yeah . project manager : oh something coming now , yeah . marketing : industrial designer : yep , there it is . project manager : there we go . user interface : and so think of this concept . um to research it i 've um had a look on the the homepage again . it 's provided me with more examples of um previously existing c remote controls . um there 's a wee bit of discussion about the other existing ones there , um so i 've taken the um suggestions from them and tried to incorporate them into this um so then this we 're looking for um suggestions on size th um size of control and the buttons , um the shape of the control , and whereabout the buttons should be located on the control . um what i found from the research is that most the current controls are just basically big bricks with loads of buttons all over them . um they 're not very attractive to look at , and they 're not very comfortable to hold , they 're i just hold 'em like big bricks , and they 're very easily lost . um they tend to be very dark colours , so if there are shadowy places down the side of couches you ca n't really see them . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um the the controls themselves tend to use a very inconsistent colour scheme . um for instance , the stand-by button is n't always red , uh it really should be . it 's uh something the user then uh identify with . this is a red switch off , that 's how it should be . um i 'm not sure if there 's any other examples of that , but something to look out for . um there 's a problem that i 've i 've got couple of preferences for the the end control um i get 'em with the the red colour button for stand-by and s the other examples of that um the buttons should be large . they should n't be tiny little things like you get on some mobile phones . they should be easy to press , very comfortable . um one of the examples given on the homepage was um there 's an up and down volume button but both of them have a v_ on them , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so the up volume button looks like it should be a down volume button , that 's kinda confusing . um should avoid s things like that . um if the the corporate colour scheme allows it we should have a very bright colour so that it can be easily identified anywhere . project manager : okay . user interface : um obviously trying trying to avoid being tacky there , but it could um tie-in very easily with your your lime and lemon idea . marketing : yeah . okay , do we have a corporate colour scheme ? project manager : i think it 's yellow marketing : i did n't know . project manager : because like the website is yellow and there 's a band at the bottom is yellow , marketing : okay . industrial designer : and the play-doh 's yellow . project manager : so yellow , lemon , you know definitely food for thought there , marketing : okay . user interface : fantastic . project manager : but keep going marketing : okay . project manager : and we 'll discuss it after . marketing : yeah . user interface : any extra features we add beyond the basic ones should be m hidden , they should n't be on the um should n't be visible without something be opened or some sort of special extra effort . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um if we did decide to go for voice activation there sh should always be a button as alternative , possibly hidden in the the opened up section um making that something is wrong with it or with somebody 's voice , maybe they got a cold or um we should definitely avoid the big square block look . that 's just wrong . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and um we got an email uh from i think it 's the the research department , and they 've said th the voice control um can now talk back if you ask it a question . so it sh it could be good to have them um confirm any action you take project manager : aye that 's a good idea , yeah . user interface : and possibility . right and these are problems i 've had with it . um i do n't know where the slogan should go , or really what the slogan is . i think it 's um , fashion into electronics . project manager : yeah . user interface : and we do n't know how flexible the colour scheme is . i mean you say you wanted the the corporate colours , but they do n't say you know if we can use any other colours at all or project manager : okay . industrial designer : cool . user interface : that 's it . project manager : okay . marketing : great . lots of good information there . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah that that was very good , industrial designer : mm 'kay um . project manager : and uh now with david . marketing : user interface : i think i 'm cool . marketing : it 's a shame the cable was n't just in the middle of the table , project manager : i know it 'd be handy , would n't it . user interface : marketing : huh ? just um industrial designer : oops . project manager : do y do you wan na sit in the the line of sight of this um industrial designer : yeah okay . let me just get this going first . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : ah there it is . project manager : marketing : it takes a second , does n't it ? industrial designer : 'kay , that should be it . okay um i guess the same thing again , i started with something very basic . marketing : industrial designer : so just so you guys have some idea of what 's involved in my process , um and then you can just work through it marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and we 'll either modify it or start from scratch um depending on what your needs are . um the components are exactly the same . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um i think , like what you guys said , um the most input that 's needed is basically in the user interface . the rest of the components um they do have an impact in terms of cost and complexity . um like you said time to market was a problem , um and how many components are physically in there in cost . and the power is basically a factor of that . um and the lower components , the power , the logic , the transmitter , and the infrared , um they affect you in terms of the size of your device , um and that would have some inte impact on how y i think more how you hold rather than um the actual use using the the remote control because um like we 've said we 've defined , like we only want the basic things that to be visible , and the rest of them we try to hide . so um you know it 's just a matter of working out space . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i guess three things , um cost , um complexity , and the size . these are the three things that um will have an impact on you . so just go through it in the components . um these are the options that are available to you , um i 'm not very sure about the voice thing 'cause i got another email and it was in fact quite sketchy on what n the voice options are . user interface : right . industrial designer : um it said it could talk to you , but it never said anything about being able to listen . i it said something about a sensor but never clarified that . so maybe if you well i could see the other email that they sent you , um 'cause they got back to me with like different requirements , or different offerings of what components availa okay so your basic components are buttons , user interface : right . industrial designer : okay and you have a wheel available , like a mouse scroll wheel , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay there 's an lcd display , marketing : industrial designer : um i think these are quite standard things . marketing : they 're standard , are n't they ? industrial designer : no um they 're well in the sense that these are all the options available for you . i 'll explain to you the complexity and the cost thing again a bit later . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay um then there 's um how the case actually looks . it can actually be flat or it can be curved , um and then the different types of materials that you can use , um i do n't think you can use them in a combination , um but um project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i could check back for you , but i do n't think you can actually use them in a combination . project manager : we you could n't have like plastic and rubber ? industrial designer : um i think plastic and rubber would be fine , but plastic , rubber , and wood , i was n't i 'm not very sure about the titanium . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : they had some restrictions on using the rubber and the titanium . um the rubber was a restriction on the kind of power source you could use , project manager : mm 'kay . industrial designer : but the titanium had a different kind of things on the shape of the thing , project manager : okay . industrial designer : so i think that there is some restriction on um i think you could probably group plastic and rubber together , wood and titanium , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but you know it might be easier from a cost perspective and a complexity just to use one . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : you know as opposed to two . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and the other components are logic chips , um again i 'll i 'll go back to the component chips . the com how complex or how easy the logic is , it depends on how many functions you have on the on the unit um and that impacts cost . um i do n't think the logic chip has a issue about size 'cause they should be about the same size . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : power consumption should be about the same . um i think the main impact is complexity , um and the other thing is um the power options . um the first one is a standard battery . okay the second one i think is more of a gimmick then actually a useable thing , it 's a wind-up you know , a crank . project manager : i 'll clear one of these things for you . just by moving it yeah . industrial designer : yeah but that that might be something i think that 's more of a look and feel decision because i do n't think you can have one power source if you 're using the alternative power sources . i think whatever it is you still need a battery 'cause i do n't think anybody wants to keep doing one thing . user interface : industrial designer : okay the other ones are a solar powered cell , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : which may not be a great idea in europe or any country that has seasons 'cause half the year you 'd be dead . user interface : industrial designer : so like what i said , you probably need like a battery and something else . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and the kinetic one i guess for me is the most interesting one project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : because it 's movement and people like to fiddle with their and it 's a nice sales gimmick i think . from a marketing gimmick it it 's a technology thing , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's a shake it it does n't work , shake it , knock it or something . you know project manager : w yeah . industrial designer : you know you have you had those balls , you know those stress balls where you bounce the ball and it and it lights up and it goes , project manager : uh yeah yeah , i see . marketing : yeah . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : you know that might be a gimmick combined with rubber . you know just to if you get frustrated wi remote control you can throw it , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : kind of you know just uh you know um so . um okay user interface : project manager : i know what you mean yeah . industrial designer : my from my role , i do n't think that personal preferences but role preferences , i think um something comfortable to hold , um small and slim marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i guess that 's more in the sense of small and slim in terms of comfortable not so small you ca n't , you know like a phone or something , too small phone . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and the other thing is from a production point of view um the less components we use and the simpler the components means you reduce your cost and you increase your profit . um and also the time to market and the complexity of developing designing and debugging it um so . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm . industrial designer : um okay let me just go back and talk about some of the restrictions . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um the user interface restrictions basically means that if you use more complicated features , like the buttons are standard okay , the lcd panel and the scroll wheel you need more complicated logic . um the case okay with a rubber case you ca n't have the solar panels . okay with the titanium case , let me just check that um , marketing : industrial designer : titanium case ca n't be curved , it has to be square . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay um there 's no restriction on the plastic , and marketing : it ca n't be curved . industrial designer : it ca n't be curved on the wood . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so that 's again , i do n't think you can use them in a combination , um especially the titanium project manager : okay . industrial designer : i i suspect they 're very fixed to a particular need . project manager : right . industrial designer : so um mixing them may not be a good idea um yep . that 's it . project manager : okay . right can i marketing : uh question on can i ask a question ? project manager : yeah well yeah it 's just i 'm quite keen to get the discussion going with the time we 've left so but yeah you c ask away . marketing : okay . can we uh power a light in this ? can we get a strong enough battery to power a light ? industrial designer : um i think we could because the lcd panel requires power , and the lcd is a form of a light marketing : okay . industrial designer : so that marketing : so maybe one of the things we can just try and include is a really good battery . project manager : why what kind of light do you want are you thinking of ? marketing : well i mean i 'm thinking it might be that for uh this to be a high-tech thing it 's gon na have to have something high-tech about it project manager : uh-huh . yeah . marketing : and that 's gon na take battery power , and to make that to make that a realistic goal i think one of the issues that will come up later is , can the battery power it ? industrial designer : are you thinking are you thinking of of a light in the sense of um a light light , or a light in the sense of it glows kind of you know frankenstein , it 's alive . marketing : illuminate the buttons . yeah it glows . well m i 'm thinking along the lines of you 're you 're in the dark watching a d_v_d_ and you um you find the thing in the dark and you go like this , industrial designer : okay . marketing : and that 's what everybody does . oh where 's the volume button in the dark , industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah yeah yeah . marketing : and uh y you just touch it , or you just pick it up , and it lights up or something . project manager : like a phone yeah , like the backlight in a phone . industrial designer : okay . marketing : like a phone , yeah yeah . project manager : okay cool . marketing : whereas with phones , people charge them once a week . project manager : yeah . marketing : we 're gon na need to put in a really good battery so people do n't have to charge their r remote control every few days . industrial designer : um that 's why i think the option of the the kinetic thing which basically means as long as you shake it like a watch , like an automatic watch marketing : but are people gon na wan na shake their movie controller ? industrial designer : um it 's probably sensitive enough when you fiddle it . marketing : right . industrial designer : so you could trigger that to a light , marketing : sure . industrial designer : like i said the bouncing ball thing , or you could trigger that to use that to power the light project manager : okay . industrial designer : as opposed to marketing : okay . industrial designer : so when they pick it up , right , and then that that sorta triggers the marketing : right . project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : glowingness . project manager : okay um well marketing : okay , great . project manager : let 's just go right back to the marketing ideas for a start , and just giving an id idea on the time , we 've got about fifteen minutes to play with at most . so um yeah so just t to bear in mind that the ultimate goal of this meeting is to reach an decision on the the the concepts of the product . marketing : okay . okay . project manager : so back to your idea about um incorporating the idea of like fruit and veg , and the corporate colour , and things like that . marketing : yeah . project manager : um i mean what does everybody think about marketing : yeah . project manager : does anybody have any ideas of about how we can fit all that in together ? i mean that 's kind of the user interface type of thing , what are your thoughts on that ? user interface : um i think we could go for like um maybe not a p a fruit shape but a very sort of curvy type shape . um you could have the same sort of texture and colour as a fruit . project manager : so maybe do y are we thinking something that like s could sit in your hand comfortably , or do you th you 'd hold onto comfortably or user interface : um probably something that s sits in your hand comfortably , sort of feels right in your hand . project manager : so something quite curvy ? okay um right okay . colour-wise i mean you made a re uh was it you or uh i ca n't remember who made the point about how if you 've a nice bright colour you 'll not lose it , was that industrial designer : i think he made that . project manager : whose user interface : marketing : what 's that ? project manager : about how if you have a bright colour you 'll not lose it so much . marketing : yeah . project manager : um and when the corporate colour is yellow , i mean maybe we could think about about the colour of the whole product being yellow i do n't know . um marketing : okay . project manager : and then obviously the uh the materials when it has anybody got like an overall picture in their mind about what what might work ? that 's all . marketing : well i mean i 'm thinking that what we need to do is have something that kind of unifies a lot of the different concepts , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and if we think that what we are w our number one marketing motive is um the look and feel . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so for the look and feel to seem coherent and not just sorta bits and bits and pieces of of concept and technology or or whatever or fashion , then we should have it kind of come back to one thing that we kind of all sorta can visualize . um maybe what we could do is t th think about a concept which touches b back to the on the um the colour , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : you said company colour yellow . i mean if we think of something , like i was saying also lime and lemon you know , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : what can we come up with something where we we try and associate it with with like the series . we just come up with something like that we kind of use it as a theme to inspire the project manager : okay . marketing : shapes and things . project manager : right . industrial designer : is there a particular shape that you 're interested in ? like does marketing have any research on does it need to be long ? marketing : industrial designer : does it need with a square thing wha project manager : oh you know like in circular in shape or industrial designer : yeah 'cause that will n help narrow down the choice of marketing : yeah . project manager : choice of material yeah . industrial designer : like fruit . i 'm thinking fruits in my head , but that 's tacky . project manager : 'cause i i i was kinda thinking about as well you know how you get these shock resistant mobile phones , user interface : see i 'm project manager : and they 're plastic but then also have like rubber on the outside , and it kinda feels it feels kind of warmer to the touch . it feels a bit more comfortable , and maybe we could incorporate plastic and rubber into it . and then then we could have curved shapes , 'cause wood or titanium , yeah , it 's gon na have to be boxy and rectangular and i think we might be moving away from that you know so um well i 'm do we really want it in like the shape of a lemon or marketing : no no no not at all . project manager : no i do n't think we do either . marketing : it 's more more just that we we think about like what it is we 're trying to achieve , so and then we have one one sorta theme that we stick with . project manager : okay right well um marketing : do you know what i mean ? project manager : so thoughts about the actual shape of the thing . user interface : i 'd quite like a sort of uh snowman type shape . project manager : a snowman shape ? user interface : um so a p sort of larger bit sits in your hand , and then you got maybe another bubble at the top for just any other function you need . project manager : uh-huh . that 's quite a distinctive shape , marketing : right , project manager : that would be good marketing : sure . project manager : would n't it . yeah marketing : yeah . project manager : so yeah should we go with that ? marketing : um can we yeah like to and wha like do you have a project manager : do you wan na draw it on the board ? user interface : marketing : can you like yeah just t we can visualize it . user interface : um something like that um you got two groups there um maybe it could fold up and you get a third group inside project manager : ooh that 'd be good . user interface : or uh you have volume controls about there . marketing : okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . yep . project manager : so call it the snowman-shape trademark . yeah that 's cool . um and i mean colour-wise what does everybody think ? i think it is quite important to get yellow in there somewhere . i mean do you want the whole thing yellow , maybe like yellow and white do you want something user interface : so i reckon it 'd look quite nice if we just had um this here , had a sorta background yellow , marketing : project manager : uh-huh . user interface : and then have sort of a nice bold colour for the buttons . project manager : okay cool . um and also i mean how are we going to incorporate the slogan in ? the fact that it talks to you , i mean it might be quite cool if when you first start using it it says , what is it , putting fashion into electronics or something , i dunno . or when you like or if you turn it off or something if it can speak if it could actually say the slogan it might be a bit more powerful than just having it written on it somewhere . user interface : i think that might scare me . project manager : i d i d any thoughts on that at all ? user interface : i think that 'd probably scare me . you turn it on your control possessed s . project manager : i know . um unless an a i mean if you also would that work if we wanted to incorporate um an lcd display , where would we put that ? would we put that on the inside or industrial designer : do we need an lcd display ? user interface : um industrial designer : what what 's the functionality of that ? project manager : it 's bound to increase the cost of it a lot , i would 've thought . industrial designer : yeah but the question is what are we using it marketing : what would it achieve ? industrial designer : what would we what would we achieve from it ? putting in lights is cheap but putting in an lcd panel just to make it glow is a bit of a marketing : well l_c_ well i 'd when you used to mention the lcd i 'd think i wonder what that would be about . and the th the thing i could see it helping with would be if it was somehow connected with um listings . project manager : yeah . marketing : so as you scroll through , 'cause we said we might have a jog dial , so as you scroll through your stations you can y it actually tells you what it is . industrial designer : mm-hmm . i think that will be a problem because we do n't have an input device to get the listings into it , marketing : right , okay . industrial designer : so um it 's a bit nuts to get the monday tuesday wednesday you know . project manager : mm oh yeah that 's true . yeah . so so no need for an lcd display ? marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : um i i 'm not saying there 's no need for an lcd display , but um it 's what 's what what would it tell the user , project manager : i think that would make it very complex . industrial designer : 'cause the lcd tends to be an output as uh as opposed to an input so um does the remote control need to talk back to the user ? project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : mm not real industrial designer : we have the option of the speaker as well the sa the same thing goes for the speaker , is there a need for the remote control to to talk back ? marketing : project manager : i do n't know if there is really , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : no um industrial designer : um project manager : i would say no need for a talk-back . uh does anybody disagree with that ? industrial designer : you could put a game on it . project manager : no ? user interface : marketing : project manager : easy . industrial designer : when the tv dies you can play with the remote control . project manager : okay um right marketing : mm mm . project manager : so you 're gon na have the three different sets of of functionalities , um i mean do you wan na group them into s head of the snowman , body of the snowman , inside of the snowman , is that what you 're thinking ? user interface : um well i think the advanced ones the the ones you do n't usually use could be hid inside . project manager : okay . user interface : b um i think the we had were fairly basic ones , they 'd have to go on the the front somewhere . project manager : okay right um what else do you need to talk about ? marketing : well i i was just industrial designer : where would you physically position the buttons ? um i think that that has some impact on on on many things . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um maybe you wan na draw onto the user interface : um marketing : yeah . project manager : so i 'm just gon na um pop this in here 'cause i have a slide about decision making which i 'd forgotten about . oh sh god we 've got five minutes um okay uh back we go . um energy what do you think that 's suggesting we 're how we 're powering the thing ? i really like the idea of this kinetic thing where you 'd have the back-up of the battery , but have have kinetic power , marketing : yeah , sure . project manager : i mean what does anybody think about that ? marketing : um i 've had kinetic things before , and the the the one issue we need to keep in mind with them is that you 're committing the user to moving it , industrial designer : no , like i said we have a h hybrid kind of thing , so it 's not gon na charge the battery , it 's just marketing : and watches yeah sure , okay , right , okay . project manager : okay . marketing : support for it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i mean just it 's just worth pointing out because like i 've i 've known i 've known people to have kinetic watches that they wear all the time , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and it 's just like magic because it 's always powered and there 's no battery . i 've also known people to have things like like a jewellery watch they wear from time to time , and they eventually just say it 's just too much of a nuisance because i do n't wear it all the time . project manager : yeah . marketing : like remote control is similar , you 're away on vacation , i dunno whatever , you something , and it just starts to get worn down . project manager : yeah . well i suppose that if you 're if you 're away and you 're not using it , then you 're not using any power either . marketing : so we should think about project manager : so you 'd have the battery as the kind of to keep it ticking over idea marketing : yeah . project manager : i 'm really sorry we 're gon na have to wrap up quite quickly , we do n't have as much time as i thought . um so i think that 's what energy is referring to here . chip on print , is that that 's an industrial design thing , is it david ? industrial designer : yes yes . project manager : okay um as for the case , kind of discussed that marketing : and this size here , i 'd suggest this be small , like quite small . project manager : yeah i know we 're gon na have like rubber buttons that feel kind of okay . user interface : yeah i think so yeah . marketing : um just a a lot of the um i mean one of the things running through my mind right now , i realise we 're being efficient to wrap up the meeting and have lots of decisions made , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um but we are leaning quite a bit to the side of being low-tech , rubber buttons plastic frame , it 's almost like we 're reproducing the same old remote control that 's out there . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : should we think about how we are actually getting this high-tech user friendly uh um theme like what is it that we 're u we 're using to to achieve those goals ? project manager : could have things like backlighting the buttons and stuff like that . marketing : like okay so so backlighting , that would be good . industrial designer : or even a clear case . um you know a a glowing a a glowing yellow type case where the yellow is showable , marketing : yeah clear , project manager : aye that would be a good idea . marketing : okay . industrial designer : but in the dark it sort of , it 's alive . user interface : marketing : yeah sure . industrial designer : um in in a slight subtle way . project manager : s so like cur slightly transparent case , so it 's yellow , like tinted yellow , but you can maybe see through it . marketing : yeah that 'd be really good . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . or or there might be a light running through it like a mouse . project manager : is that what you mean ? industrial designer : you know you have cordless mice and they do n't eat that much power right . marketing : sure . industrial designer : so the power the battery in that sense , marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : maybe you have one or two stratig strategically placed lights marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that sort of marketing : sure . yeah they they emanate a light through it . project manager : okay . industrial designer : but because the case is transparent so it gives it a little bit of a glow , does n't make it freaky . project manager : lights . marketing : 'kay . yeah , project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . um and then the other thing that we we 're s we 've committed ourselves to achieving is simplicity , and so i 'm thinking maybe should we try and think about having something like um some kind of an innovative concept about how the um the volume and the channels are controlled , 'cause that 's the main thing people will f wan na do . could we use like a jog dial , like a nice just sort of round , somewhere on it where you just roll it ? industrial designer : the question is when you 're rolling it , how do you wan na roll it ? marketing : or industrial designer : do you want 'em to roll it like that ? do you want 'em to roll it like that ? 'cause in a mouse your hand 's in a position to roll it , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : whereas the other thing about having it jog dial this way , it tends to get moved accidentally . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah if you are holding it in your hand you could you could do that , could n't you ? marketing : well why do n't we do it like a mouse then ? project manager : if you 're holding it in your hand you could industrial designer : that 's a very unnatural motion to project manager : do you think ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : can you imagine you have to scroll a lot . um it might work for volume , and maybe some of the brightness controls and stuff like that , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but not for channels right . if you have a telewest box you 've got like , you do n't have to buy all the channels , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you 've about fifty channels , can you imagine trying to . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay okay industrial designer : um and i do n't think having that you know too quick too slow kin it 's confusing to the marketing : yeah , sure . project manager : um user interface : well , but then for um for skipping a large amount of channels you do have to uh to skip the channel button , the number part . industrial designer : i dunno . but users tend to tend to want to use that project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and once they lose out on the user experience they 're like because that 's becomes the most accessible thing in front of project manager : okay . user interface : uh but project manager : okay . marketing : but that 's not a bad thing is it ? project manager : just marketing : because when you think about it , the alternative is to go push the button . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : jog dials are much easier than that . project manager : okay um right well would n't it marketing : you just roll . project manager : we do need to make a decision on whether we want to incorporate a jog dial in nice and quickly . um i 'm all for them actually , i think they 're quite you know th very quick to m to use . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : so does anybody oppose the idea of of incorporating one into the design at all ? no . and the other thing was um can we think of any way of getting the slogan into this thing ? marketing : yeah like i mean if we if if we keep coming back to this board here , project manager : uh-huh . marketing : i would n't be surprised if we could take this idea , imagine that , i dunno , that it 's within the shape of the hand , it 's quite small project manager : uh-huh ooh okay , we really got ta wrap up marketing : i dunno . project manager : so yeah . marketing : yeah . it 's small , and that we 've got like the the l slogan somewhere like on the casing at the side , project manager : okay well if we can do that , great . marketing : and that yeah project manager : yeah okay . marketing : well i mean is n't that what we just h said said we s just have to decide now ? project manager : yeah let 's let 's try and get the slogan on there um , and marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so you wan na expand the shape of the marketing : and then like a jo and then like a jog dial somewhere that fits in with the shape of it like i dunno like here , in with the industrial designer : that that might have one problem in terms of um in terms of whether you 're left handed or you 're right handed you might be locking yourself in . marketing : it would get bumped , it 's does n't really fit with your hand . yeah . or maybe just fit it in like down the middle here . industrial designer : could i just could i just jump in and suggest something quickly ? project manager : okay . right i 'm gon na have to user interface : marketing : a jog di project manager : i 'm really gon na have to hurry you on here 'cause we 're we 're actually over time . um is there anything anybody 's unsure about ? marketing : . it 's kind of yeah project manager : just for in closing just the next meeting 's gon na be in thirty minutes , and so you can see in the screen here what each of you are gon na hopefully be doing , uh i know that the designers are gon na be working with play-doh on that . marketing : yeah . project manager : so um that 'll be that 'll be good . um and i 'll get the the minutes up as soon as possible . anything at all you think we have n't discussed that we need to ? is everybody kind of happy about what they 're gon na be doing ? marketing : um industrial designer : um i think one thing would be the jog dial 'cause that 's gon na have quite a big impact on the thing um marketing : yeah i think the jog dial , you know it just after you drew that , what if it was flat and you just spun it , industrial designer : yeah that 's what i was thinking the marketing : that 'd be great . industrial designer : a slide , because then you you do n't have to put the hand . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think incorporating a logo is quite straight forward . project manager : okay . industrial designer : there 's lots of space for it um project manager : that 's kind of a design thing that you guys can can discuss , yeah . industrial designer : yeah but it 's also a a marketing and a function user interface : marketing : sure , yeah , project manager : okay . marketing : yeah and materials we sorta said we 'd do plastic and rubber , did n't we , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : and i think maybe we should try and stay away from just the big protruding rubber buttons , 'cause that 'd just be so standard . project manager : to make something flush with the case ? marketing : something a bit more flush , yeah , project manager : okay right . marketing : or maybe have rubber incorporated into the case as well , project manager : okay . marketing : so that it has and also t plastic i 've seen can get really textured , so you can get plastics that actually feel soft in your hand . project manager : sp kinda grippy ? industrial designer : feel like fruit . project manager : okay . industrial designer : fruits kids . user interface : marketing : they feel kind of like um , you get pens now and then that you 'd think that they were rubber but they 're not , industrial designer : no like yeah yeah . marketing : they 're actually just plastic that 's textured , industrial designer : yeah yeah kinda like that yeah . marketing : kind of a little bit like project manager : okay i 'm gon na have to i 'm gon na have to call this to a close 'cause we 're way over time . so um that 's really good , like we 've s had much to talk about that um pretty much run out of time to do so . marketing : okay . project manager : so off you go and design stuff marketing : okay . project manager : wooh . marketing : industrial designer : play-doh time . project manager : yeah quite jealous actually . industrial designer : you got to choose first . no , we 're kidding . marketing : </s>
<s> summarize the presentation on market trends . </s> industrial designer : 's to do now is to decide how to fulfil what your stuff is , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so in that sense project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , sure . industrial designer : so it does kind of make sense , yeah . project manager : okay , well marketing : it kinda does make sense , does n't it , because when we get into the end of meeting we 're kind of talking about action and design as opposed to background . project manager : okay . marketing : everything i have is kinda background . project manager : okay we all ready to go ? well how um on the in this meeting then if we um i 'll just just recap on the minutes from the last meeting . and we uh decided on decided on our our target group being fifteen to thirty five , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and we decided that it was gon na be non-rechargeable battery-powered , that we 're gon na group our audio-visual and other functions into into those categories , um . and i told you guys about the three new requirements about ignoring teletext , ignoring everything except the tv , and trying to incorporate the the uh corporate colour and slogan . um so that was the last meeting . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : is there anything have i forgotten anything ? is that everything ? marketing : uh that sounds . project manager : okay . um so if we have the three presentations , and then if you have anything to kind of that you know you 're gon na want to discuss , maybe just make a note of it , and we 'll have all the discussion at the end . that might be a better idea this time . marketing : sure . project manager : and so if we start off uh with andrew and then craig and then david , marketing : okay . project manager : if that 's alright . marketing : sure . project manager : um and then after that we 'll have to make some decisions about stuff , right . marketing : yeah , cool . project manager : so if you wan na take this . marketing : why do n't i get that ? hmm . project manager : screwed in quite tightly . uh what did uh how did we leave it with speech recognition now ? we did we say we were gon na try maybe incorporate it but we had n't made a definite decision on that ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : right . oh i should also point out that um the you know the kind of final objective of this meeting is to reach a decision on the concepts of the product . marketing : okay . project manager : so um that 's kind of the end result hopefully . marketing : okay . um alright so c is it function f_ eight ? project manager : uh-huh . hopefully appear in a wee second . marketing : hmm . come on . i think it 's working . project manager : up there we go . marketing : okay great s so let me just start this . okay great . so um uh s move on . uh-huh oh where 'd it all go ? project manager : oh no . marketing : it 's not good . okay lem me just see where i can find it . this looks more like it . i think i just opened up the template . project manager : oh right . marketing : sorry about that . okay alright so let 's have a look here . project manager : here we go . marketing : okay so this was the method that um i 've taken . uh basically what i wan na do here , before we get into it uh too far , is i want to show you all the background information i have that i think we need to acknowledge if we want this to be successful . project manager : okay . marketing : and uh and then sorta g go through some of the way that i 've dealt with that information , and then sort of bring us all together into it to see sorta see how this fits in with the overall vision . um so i 've tried to take a whole lot of market research and summarise it for us , and then ide identify uh trends that are are sort of in sync and are important to our our uh p project plan that we have so far , and then uh initiate a kind of discussion on design options so that it sorta helps us to to narrow in on on aspects that will inform other uh other elements of the of the project . does that make sense , tha that sort of strategy ? project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i thought that that will impact on the rest of what we do , so that 's why i suggested we get in this . project manager : aye a fair point definitely . marketing : okay so out of um different uh figures and ratings ob uh of people in general , um consumers in general , the number one thing that was found was that uh the br t television remote control , a fancy look and feel , okay , and not , it specified , not a functional look or or feel , uh b f f fancy . project manager : okay . marketing : um however , this is where we kinda have to be very , i think , creative about it . number two was that it be innovative . okay so that tells me that we have to find a way to be innovative without a adding just unnecessary um sort of functional bits to it . uh and third priority uh for ease of use , so again that kind of gives us a general picture of how it has to be , um quite user friendly while still having technology . so it i 'll just say right away as a bit of a foreshadowing into how we proceed with this in terms of m marketing , is that i think um what we should think about is how the um about how the innovation uh contributes to the look and feel , and not so much to the functionality of it . project manager : aye right . marketing : for example like when you pick it up and push it like it all lights up or something , you know what i mean , like , or it 's got something else to it that just seems innovative project manager : uh-huh . marketing : because obviously the thing that the message here is ease of use . so how do you make innovation make something more more easy to use ? well that 's i guess where we 're gon na go with this . project manager : okay . marketing : okay then there 's the other aspect of the back the the market um research i have here is on fashion style , okay , which as we 've agreed is a priority . uh top european fashion trend um that i read about says there 's this emerging theme of fruit and vegetables , okay , industrial designer : project manager : marketing : especially in clothes and furniture . and when i first saw that i thought hmm , well do we want to actually try and think about this trend and how we add something to it , or we get right into it , or we completely steer away from it , project manager : okay okay . marketing : do you know what i mean ? so my my feeling is that we w do want to observe this trend , but we want to think also about the fact that it sort of has to fit in with something which is not specifically electronics . um 'cause i think what we 're in what we 're in is partly sort of home decor , partly something like a computer , um so i think we might wan na be careful about how you know how quickly we create like a remote control in the shape of an apple or something , project manager : marketing : i think that would be pushing it . industrial designer : marketing : and then in terms of m material trends are for things to be soft and spongy and sort of , you might say ergonomic or or friendly to handle , which is which also in indicated that last year this was this was not the case . so um probably a lot of the competition on the market will be still in last year 's mode , so if we try and really capitalise on that , i think that 'll be in our favour . um so these this is the summary of everything . um style is number one uh thing in the in the market of who we 're selling to . uh innovative design technology 's also a must in that it 's seen it 'd be seen to be uh cutting edge , uh but ease of use t has to be insured throughout . that was like the number three thing . and then at the end there are vibrant natural colours um that 's the way i interpreted it anyway , softness in materials , shape , and function , and so i 've written at written at the bottom to give us sort of a context of discussion , mac ipods , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : something which is , i 'd have to say very high-tech , ten gigabytes , whatever , but when you hold it in your hand there 's like no buttons . project manager : mm that 's true , yeah . marketing : you know what a mac ipod is ? i 'm thinking however mac ipod is sort of last year 's because it 's very hard and sort of glassy and glossy , so i 'm thinking if we imagine that we 're taking some of the features of a mac ipod and we 're then making it s more of like a more of like a comfortable type of or more of like a maybe more vibrant to friendly thing to have . um and then so this is w with all that information what i 'm what i 'm suggesting in this slide here is that we we take these ideas , and as we get into more the more um techni like sort of production side of things , that we think about shape , materials , and themes or series that go throughout . sort of like a i dunno like um we think of some kind of a thin theme that unifies it all , that we agree on , uh sorta like a marketing identity . um does that make sense ? yeah . so so like i threw out a few ideas there just to kinda get us thinking along those lines like lemon , lime , i dunno , green colours , pe whatever , it 's just an idea , 'cause i 'm thinking that some of these ideas will seem quite coherent if we use them in terms of their what people associate this them with in terms of texture , shape , colours , things like that . project manager : mm 'kay . great . marketing : like um the ones the ones which i 'm most fond of in terms of giving like a theme to it would be like um like lemon or something like that , you know something which is , like you see a lot in in other areas . like i see lots of websites and things that seem to associate with like lemon and lime and project manager : okay . marketing : so anyway it 's just just an idea . project manager : yeah . marketing : i 'm thinking maybe we could incorporate some of these features into a fairly um into something which is which seems to have something to it which is almost gimmicky because like um like something to do with like lighting within it . like you know just within the simple sense , when you pick up a phone and touch a button it uh lights up , q usually the buttons light up . how can we build on that ? maybe like it could light up in different colours or something or or people could buy the buy the control and then it comes with different like covers or something so . project manager : okay . marketing : anyway those are that 's all i have , project manager : that 's great . marketing : but uh hopefully we can we can revisit those ideas when we get into </s>
<s> what did marketing think of technology innovation when presenting the market trend ? </s> marketing : um however , this is where we kinda have to be very , i think , creative about it . number two was that it be innovative . okay so that tells me that we have to find a way to be innovative without a adding just unnecessary um sort of functional bits to it . uh and third priority uh for ease of use , so again that kind of gives us a general picture of how it has to be , um quite user friendly while still having technology . so it i 'll just say right away as a bit of a foreshadowing into how we proceed with this in terms of m marketing , is that i think um what we should think about is how the um about how the innovation uh contributes to the look and feel , and not so much to the functionality of it . project manager : aye right . marketing : for example like when you pick it up and push it like it all lights up or something , you know what i mean , like , or it 's got something else to it that just seems innovative project manager : uh-huh . marketing : because obviously the thing that the message here is ease of use . so how do you make innovation make something more more easy to use ? well that 's i guess where we 're gon na go with this . project manager : okay . marketing : okay then there 's the other aspect of the back the the market um research i have here is on fashion style , okay , which as we 've agreed is a priority . uh top european fashion trend um that i read about says there 's this emerging theme of fruit and vegetables , okay , industrial designer : project manager : marketing : especially in clothes and furniture . and when i first saw that i thought hmm , well do we want to actually try and think about this trend and how we add something to it , or we get right into it , or we completely steer away from it , project manager : okay okay . marketing : do you know what i mean ? so my my feeling is that we w do want to observe this trend , but we want to think also about the fact that it sort of has to fit in with something which is not specifically electronics . um 'cause i think what we 're in what we 're in is partly sort of home decor , partly something like a computer , um so i think we might wan na be careful about how you know how quickly we create like a remote control in the shape of an apple or something , project manager : </s>
<s> why did marketing propose lemon or lime when proposing the market trend ? </s> marketing : you know what a mac ipod is ? i 'm thinking however mac ipod is sort of last year 's because it 's very hard and sort of glassy and glossy , so i 'm thinking if we imagine that we 're taking some of the features of a mac ipod and we 're then making it s more of like a more of like a comfortable type of or more of like a maybe more vibrant to friendly thing to have . um and then so this is w with all that information what i 'm what i 'm suggesting in this slide here is that we we take these ideas , and as we get into more the more um techni like sort of production side of things , that we think about shape , materials , and themes or series that go throughout . sort of like a i dunno like um we think of some kind of a thin theme that unifies it all , that we agree on , uh sorta like a marketing identity . um does that make sense ? yeah . so so like i threw out a few ideas there just to kinda get us thinking along those lines like lemon , lime , i dunno , green colours , pe whatever , it 's just an idea , 'cause i 'm thinking that some of these ideas will seem quite coherent if we use them in terms of their what people associate this them with in terms of texture , shape , colours , things like that . project manager : mm 'kay . great . marketing : like um the ones the ones which i 'm most fond of in terms of giving like a theme to it would be like um like lemon or something like that , you know something which is , like you see a lot in in other areas . like i see lots of websites and things that seem to associate with like lemon and lime and project manager : okay . marketing : so anyway it 's just just an idea . project manager : yeah . marketing : i 'm thinking maybe we could incorporate some of these features into a fairly um into something which is which seems to have something to it which is almost gimmicky because like um like something to do with like lighting within it . like you know just within the simple sense , when you pick up a phone and touch a button it uh lights up , q usually the buttons light up . how can we build on that ? maybe like it could light up in different colours or something or or people could buy the buy the control and then it comes with different like covers or something so . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the decision discussion about remote concepts . </s> project manager : let 's just go right back to the marketing ideas for a start , and just giving an id idea on the time , we 've got about fifteen minutes to play with at most . so um yeah so just t to bear in mind that the ultimate goal of this meeting is to reach an decision on the the the concepts of the product . marketing : okay . okay . project manager : so back to your idea about um incorporating the idea of like fruit and veg , and the corporate colour , and things like that . marketing : yeah . project manager : um i mean what does everybody think about marketing : yeah . project manager : does anybody have any ideas of about how we can fit all that in together ? i mean that 's kind of the user interface type of thing , what are your thoughts on that ? user interface : um i think we could go for like um maybe not a p a fruit shape but a very sort of curvy type shape . um you could have the same sort of texture and colour as a fruit . project manager : so maybe do y are we thinking something that like s could sit in your hand comfortably , or do you th you 'd hold onto comfortably or user interface : um probably something that s sits in your hand comfortably , sort of feels right in your hand . project manager : so something quite curvy ? okay um right okay . colour-wise i mean you made a re uh was it you or uh i ca n't remember who made the point about how if you 've a nice bright colour you 'll not lose it , was that industrial designer : i think he made that . project manager : whose user interface : marketing : what 's that ? project manager : about how if you have a bright colour you 'll not lose it so much . marketing : yeah . project manager : um and when the corporate colour is yellow , i mean maybe we could think about about the colour of the whole product being yellow i do n't know . um marketing : okay . project manager : and then obviously the uh the materials when it has anybody got like an overall picture in their mind about what what might work ? that 's all . marketing : well i mean i 'm thinking that what we need to do is have something that kind of unifies a lot of the different concepts , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and if we think that what we are w our number one marketing motive is um the look and feel . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so for the look and feel to seem coherent and not just sorta bits and bits and pieces of of concept and technology or or whatever or fashion , then we should have it kind of come back to one thing that we kind of all sorta can visualize . um maybe what we could do is t th think about a concept which touches b back to the on the um the colour , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : you said company colour yellow . i mean if we think of something , like i was saying also lime and lemon you know , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : what can we come up with something where we we try and associate it with with like the series . we just come up with something like that we kind of use it as a theme to inspire the project manager : okay . marketing : shapes and things . project manager : right . industrial designer : is there a particular shape that you 're interested in ? like does marketing have any research on does it need to be long ? marketing : industrial designer : does it need with a square thing wha project manager : oh you know like in circular in shape or industrial designer : yeah 'cause that will n help narrow down the choice of marketing : yeah . project manager : choice of material yeah . industrial designer : like fruit . i 'm thinking fruits in my head , but that 's tacky . project manager : 'cause i i i was kinda thinking about as well you know how you get these shock resistant mobile phones , user interface : see i 'm project manager : and they 're plastic but then also have like rubber on the outside , and it kinda feels it feels kind of warmer to the touch . it feels a bit more comfortable , and maybe we could incorporate plastic and rubber into it . and then then we could have curved shapes , 'cause wood or titanium , yeah , it 's gon na have to be boxy and rectangular and i think we might be moving away from that you know so um well i 'm do we really want it in like the shape of a lemon or marketing : no no no not at all . project manager : no i do n't think we do either . marketing : it 's more more just that we we think about like what it is we 're trying to achieve , so and then we have one one sorta theme that we stick with . project manager : okay right well um marketing : do you know what i mean ? project manager : so thoughts about the actual shape of the thing . user interface : i 'd quite like a sort of uh snowman type shape . project manager : a snowman shape ? user interface : um so a p sort of larger bit sits in your hand , and then you got maybe another bubble at the top for just any other function you need . project manager : uh-huh . that 's quite a distinctive shape , marketing : right , project manager : that would be good marketing : sure . project manager : would n't it . yeah marketing : yeah . project manager : so yeah should we go with that ? marketing : um can we yeah like to and wha like do you have a project manager : do you wan na draw it on the board ? user interface : marketing : can you like yeah just t we can visualize it . user interface : um something like that um you got two groups there um maybe it could fold up and you get a third group inside project manager : ooh that 'd be good . user interface : or uh you have volume controls about there . marketing : okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . yep . project manager : so call it the snowman-shape trademark . yeah that 's cool . um and i mean colour-wise what does everybody think ? i think it is quite important to get yellow in there somewhere . i mean do you want the whole thing yellow , maybe like yellow and white do you want something user interface : so i reckon it 'd look quite nice if we just had um this here , had a sorta background yellow , marketing : project manager : uh-huh . user interface : and then have sort of a nice bold colour for the buttons . project manager : okay cool . um and also i mean how are we going to incorporate the slogan in ? the fact that it talks to you , i mean it might be quite cool if when you first start using it it says , what is it , putting fashion into electronics or something , i dunno . or when you like or if you turn it off or something if it can speak if it could actually say the slogan it might be a bit more powerful than just having it written on it somewhere . user interface : i think that might scare me . project manager : i d i d any thoughts on that at all ? user interface : i think that 'd probably scare me . you turn it on your control possessed s . project manager : i know . um unless an a i mean if you also would that work if we wanted to incorporate um an lcd display , where would we put that ? would we put that on the inside or industrial designer : do we need an lcd display ? user interface : um industrial designer : what what 's the functionality of that ? project manager : it 's bound to increase the cost of it a lot , i would 've thought . industrial designer : yeah but the question is what are we using it marketing : what would it achieve ? industrial designer : what would we what would we achieve from it ? putting in lights is cheap but putting in an lcd panel just to make it glow is a bit of a marketing : well l_c_ well i 'd when you used to mention the lcd i 'd think i wonder what that would be about . and the th the thing i could see it helping with would be if it was somehow connected with um listings . project manager : yeah . marketing : so as you scroll through , 'cause we said we might have a jog dial , so as you scroll through your stations you can y it actually tells you what it is . industrial designer : mm-hmm . i think that will be a problem because we do n't have an input device to get the listings into it , marketing : right , okay . industrial designer : so um it 's a bit nuts to get the monday tuesday wednesday you know . project manager : mm oh yeah that 's true . yeah . so so no need for an lcd display ? marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : um i i 'm not saying there 's no need for an lcd display , but um it 's what 's what what would it tell the user , project manager : i think that would make it very complex . industrial designer : 'cause the lcd tends to be an output as uh as opposed to an input so um does the remote control need to talk back to the user ? project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : mm not real industrial designer : we have the option of the speaker as well the sa the same thing goes for the speaker , is there a need for the remote control to to talk back ? marketing : project manager : i do n't know if there is really , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : no um industrial designer : um project manager : i would say no need for a talk-back . uh does anybody disagree with that ? industrial designer : you could put a game on it . project manager : no ? user interface : marketing : project manager : easy . industrial designer : when the tv dies you can play with the remote control . project manager : okay um right marketing : mm mm . project manager : so you 're gon na have the three different sets of of functionalities , um i mean do you wan na group them into s head of the snowman , body of the snowman , inside of the snowman , is that what you 're thinking ? user interface : um well i think the advanced ones the the ones you do n't usually use could be hid inside . project manager : okay . user interface : b um i think the we had were fairly basic ones , they 'd have to go on the the front somewhere . project manager : okay right um what else do you need to talk about ? marketing : well i i was just industrial designer : where would you physically position the buttons ? um i think that that has some impact on on on many things . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um maybe you wan na draw onto the user interface : um marketing : yeah . project manager : so i 'm just gon na um pop this in here 'cause i have a slide about decision making which i 'd forgotten about . oh sh god we 've got five minutes um okay uh back we go . um energy what do you think that 's suggesting we 're how we 're powering the thing ? i really like the idea of this kinetic thing where you 'd have the back-up of the battery , but have have kinetic power , marketing : yeah , sure . project manager : i mean what does anybody think about that ? marketing : um i 've had kinetic things before , and the the the one issue we need to keep in mind with them is that you 're committing the user to moving it , industrial designer : no , like i said we have a h hybrid kind of thing , so it 's not gon na charge the battery , it 's just marketing : and watches yeah sure , okay , right , okay . project manager : okay . marketing : support for it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i mean just it 's just worth pointing out because like i 've i 've known i 've known people to have kinetic watches that they wear all the time , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and it 's just like magic because it 's always powered and there 's no battery . i 've also known people to have things like like a jewellery watch they wear from time to time , and they eventually just say it 's just too much of a nuisance because i do n't wear it all the time . project manager : yeah . marketing : like remote control is similar , you 're away on vacation , i dunno whatever , you something , and it just starts to get worn down . project manager : yeah . well i suppose that if you 're if you 're away and you 're not using it , then you 're not using any power either . marketing : so we should think about project manager : so you 'd have the battery as the kind of to keep it ticking over idea marketing : yeah . project manager : i 'm really sorry we 're gon na have to wrap up quite quickly , we do n't have as much time as i thought . um so i think that 's what energy is referring to here . chip on print , is that that 's an industrial design thing , is it david ? industrial designer : yes yes . project manager : okay um as for the case , kind of discussed that marketing : and this size here , i 'd suggest this be small , like quite small . project manager : yeah i know we 're gon na have like rubber buttons that feel kind of okay . user interface : yeah i think so yeah . marketing : um just a a lot of the um i mean one of the things running through my mind right now , i realise we 're being efficient to wrap up the meeting and have lots of decisions made , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um but we are leaning quite a bit to the side of being low-tech , rubber buttons plastic frame , it 's almost like we 're reproducing the same old remote control that 's out there . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : should we think about how we are actually getting this high-tech user friendly uh um theme like what is it that we 're u we 're using to to achieve those goals ? project manager : could have things like backlighting the buttons and stuff like that . marketing : like okay so so backlighting , that would be good . industrial designer : or even a clear case . um you know a a glowing a a glowing yellow type case where the yellow is showable , marketing : yeah clear , project manager : aye that would be a good idea . marketing : okay . industrial designer : but in the dark it sort of , it 's alive . user interface : marketing : yeah sure . industrial designer : um in in a slight subtle way . project manager : s so like cur slightly transparent case , so it 's yellow , like tinted yellow , but you can maybe see through it . marketing : yeah that 'd be really good . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . or or there might be a light running through it like a mouse . project manager : is that what you mean ? industrial designer : you know you have cordless mice and they do n't eat that much power right . marketing : sure . industrial designer : so the power the battery in that sense , marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : maybe you have one or two stratig strategically placed lights marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that sort of marketing : sure . yeah they they emanate a light through it . project manager : okay . industrial designer : but because the case is transparent so it gives it a little bit of a glow , does n't make it freaky . project manager : lights . marketing : 'kay . yeah , project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . um and then the other thing that we we 're s we 've committed ourselves to achieving is simplicity , and so i 'm thinking maybe should we try and think about having something like um some kind of an innovative concept about how the um the volume and the channels are controlled , 'cause that 's the main thing people will f wan na do . could we use like a jog dial , like a nice just sort of round , somewhere on it where you just roll it ? industrial designer : the question is when you 're rolling it , how do you wan na roll it ? marketing : or industrial designer : do you want 'em to roll it like that ? do you want 'em to roll it like that ? 'cause in a mouse your hand 's in a position to roll it , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : whereas the other thing about having it jog dial this way , it tends to get moved accidentally . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah if you are holding it in your hand you could you could do that , could n't you ? marketing : well why do n't we do it like a mouse then ? project manager : if you 're holding it in your hand you could industrial designer : that 's a very unnatural motion to project manager : do you think ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : can you imagine you have to scroll a lot . um it might work for volume , and maybe some of the brightness controls and stuff like that , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but not for channels right . if you have a telewest box you 've got like , you do n't have to buy all the channels , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you 've about fifty channels , can you imagine trying to . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay okay industrial designer : um and i do n't think having that you know too quick too slow kin it 's confusing to the marketing : yeah , sure . project manager : um user interface : well , but then for um for skipping a large amount of channels you do have to uh to skip the channel button , the number part . industrial designer : i dunno . but users tend to tend to want to use that project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and once they lose out on the user experience they 're like because that 's becomes the most accessible thing in front of project manager : okay . user interface : uh but project manager : okay . marketing : but that 's not a bad thing is it ? project manager : just marketing : because when you think about it , the alternative is to go push the button . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : jog dials are much easier than that . project manager : okay um right well would n't it marketing : you just roll . project manager : we do need to make a decision on whether we want to incorporate a jog dial in nice and quickly . um i 'm all for them actually , i think they 're quite you know th very quick to m to use . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : so does anybody oppose the idea of of incorporating one into the design at all ? no . and the other thing was um can we think of any way of getting the slogan into this thing ? marketing : yeah like i mean if we if if we keep coming back to this board here , project manager : uh-huh . marketing : i would n't be surprised if we could take this idea , imagine that , i dunno , that it 's within the shape of the hand , it 's quite small project manager : uh-huh ooh okay , we really got ta wrap up marketing : i dunno . project manager : so yeah . marketing : yeah . it 's small , and that we 've got like the the l slogan somewhere like on the casing at the side , project manager : okay well if we can do that , great . marketing : and that yeah project manager : yeah okay . marketing : well i mean is n't that what we just h said said we s just have to decide now ? project manager : yeah let 's let 's try and get the slogan on there um , and marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so you wan na expand the shape of the marketing : and then like a jo and then like a jog dial somewhere that fits in with the shape of it like i dunno like here , in with the industrial designer : that that might have one problem in terms of um in terms of whether you 're left handed or you 're right handed you might be locking yourself in . marketing : it would get bumped , it 's does n't really fit with your hand . yeah . or maybe just fit it in like down the middle here . industrial designer : could i just could i just jump in and suggest something quickly ? project manager : okay . right i 'm gon na have to user interface : marketing : a jog di project manager : i 'm really gon na have to hurry you on here 'cause we 're we 're actually over time . um is there anything anybody 's unsure about ? marketing : . it 's kind of yeah project manager : just for in closing just the next meeting 's gon na be in thirty minutes , and so you can see in the screen here what each of you are gon na hopefully be doing , uh i know that the designers are gon na be working with play-doh on that . marketing : yeah . project manager : so um that 'll be that 'll be good . um and i 'll get the the minutes up as soon as possible . anything at all you think we have n't discussed that we need to ? is everybody kind of happy about what they 're gon na be doing ? marketing : um industrial designer : um i think one thing would be the jog dial 'cause that 's gon na have quite a big impact on the thing um marketing : yeah i think the jog dial , you know it just after you drew that , what if it was flat and you just spun it , industrial designer : yeah that 's what i was thinking the marketing : that 'd be great . industrial designer : a slide , because then you you do n't have to put the hand . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think incorporating a logo is quite straight forward . project manager : okay . industrial designer : there 's lots of space for it um project manager : that 's kind of a design thing that you guys can can discuss , yeah . industrial designer : yeah but it 's also a a marketing and a function user interface : marketing : sure , yeah , project manager : okay . marketing : yeah and materials we sorta said we 'd do plastic and rubber , did n't we , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : and i think maybe we should try and stay away from just the big protruding rubber buttons , 'cause that 'd just be so standard . project manager : to make something flush with the case ? marketing : something a bit more flush , yeah , project manager : okay right . marketing : or maybe have rubber incorporated into the case as well , project manager : okay . marketing : so that it has and also t plastic i 've seen can get really textured , so you can get plastics that actually feel soft in your hand . project manager : sp kinda grippy ? industrial designer : feel like fruit . project manager : okay . industrial designer : fruits kids . user interface : marketing : they feel kind of like um , you get pens now and then that you 'd think that they were rubber but they 're not , industrial designer : no like yeah yeah . marketing : they 're actually just plastic that 's textured , industrial designer : yeah yeah kinda like that yeah . marketing : kind of a little bit like project manager : okay i 'm gon na have to i 'm gon na have to call this to a close 'cause we 're way over time . so um that 's really good , like we 've s had much to talk about that um pretty much run out of time to do so . marketing : okay . project manager : so off you go and design stuff marketing : okay . project manager : wooh . marketing : industrial designer : play-doh time . project manager : yeah quite jealous actually . industrial designer : you got to choose first . no , we 're kidding . marketing : </s>
<s> why did the group decide not to go for an lcd when discussing the remote concepts ? </s> project manager : i know . um unless an a i mean if you also would that work if we wanted to incorporate um an lcd display , where would we put that ? would we put that on the inside or industrial designer : do we need an lcd display ? user interface : um industrial designer : what what 's the functionality of that ? project manager : it 's bound to increase the cost of it a lot , i would 've thought . industrial designer : yeah but the question is what are we using it marketing : what would it achieve ? industrial designer : what would we what would we achieve from it ? putting in lights is cheap but putting in an lcd panel just to make it glow is a bit of a marketing : well l_c_ well i 'd when you used to mention the lcd i 'd think i wonder what that would be about . and the th the thing i could see it helping with would be if it was somehow connected with um listings . project manager : yeah . marketing : so as you scroll through , 'cause we said we might have a jog dial , so as you scroll through your stations you can y it actually tells you what it is . industrial designer : mm-hmm . i think that will be a problem because we do n't have an input device to get the listings into it , marketing : right , okay . industrial designer : so um it 's a bit nuts to get the monday tuesday wednesday you know . project manager : mm oh yeah that 's true . yeah . so so no need for an lcd display ? marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : um i i 'm not saying there 's no need for an lcd display , but um it 's what 's what what would it tell the user , project manager : i think that would make it very complex . industrial designer : 'cause the lcd tends to be an output as uh as opposed to an input so um does the remote control need to talk back to the user ? project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : mm not real industrial designer : we have the option of the speaker as well the sa the same thing goes for the speaker , is there a need for the remote control to to talk back ? marketing : project manager : i do n't know if there is really , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : no um industrial designer : um project manager : i would say no need for a talk-back . uh does anybody disagree with that ? industrial designer : you could put a game on it . project manager : no ? user interface : marketing : project manager : easy . industrial designer : when the tv dies you can play with the remote control . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : right , so start of the first meeting . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh . right , so agenda of the first meeting . where we uh we have twenty five minutes for this meeting . industrial designer : okay . project manager : we uh are to get acquainted . so does everyone want to say who they are ? that seem sensible ? marketing : yeah . i 'm robin . i 'm the marketing manager . user interface : i 'm louisa . i 'm the user interface designer . industrial designer : i 'm nick . i am the industrial designer . project manager : and i 'm alastair and i 'm the project leader . alright okay , so tool training . um . project plan . so does anyone have any uh thoughts as to the tool training that uh is required ? industrial designer : tool training user interface : i 'm not exactly sure what you mean by tool training . project manager : neither am i . user interface : marketing : project manager : oh i see , so we should n't really be oh right okay , so . so we have the project team , which is to um basically to come up with a new r remote control device . uh we have uh the starting base was the original which has been in existence now for a period of time . and uh our idea is to uh to make the new remote control device uh more user friendly than the previous one , and to to be trendier , to be with it , and therefore to uh to get a bigger market share and bigger audience . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so um method of doing this is uh split up as you can see into uh the functional design , the conceptional design , and the detailed design . so um in each of these uh phases we 'll uh basically be handing over to yourselves , the designers of this uh this device . and uh having uh meetings so that we can uh during the course of the day um come up with a better better inst implement than we had before . and therefore um have a successful uh conclusion to the day . um and you 'll be doing uh various designs uh throughout the day to meet this end . marketing : mm-hmm , okay . project manager : so we 've got tool training . try out whiteboard . uh . so we will um . marketing : user interface : project manager : right so everyone 's to uh supposedly uh draw their favourite animal over on the white board over there . i guess this is uh make sure the whiteboard works . so uh i do n't know who wishes to go first . industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : do you wish to go f have a first bash at uh whatever . user interface : i do n't mind . marketing : i dunno . project manager : ah uh . user interface : let 's see . good job i got pockets today . project manager : but now you you uh you 'll move out from the microphone and the camera . marketing : your microphone 's just project manager : i take it that user interface : are we supposed to do this right now , do you think , or ? project manager : i would i would guess so . or marketing : yeah . i do n't know . industrial designer : you 've lost uh your microphone there . project manager : technical problems . user interface : oh . right here we go . project manager : i mean you designers are meant to come up with these sort of things . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : project manager : user interface : okay . i think that i would have to say that my favourite animal is the cat . little smiley cat there . um and this would be because they 're very independent , uh they 're very intelligent , compared to dogs maybe . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : um and they can be very very affectionate . some people do n't think so but i know very affectionate cats . um . um and they can look after themselves . project manager : user interface : marketing : project manager : next . industrial designer : okay , yeah . i 'll i 'll user interface : shall i rub that out , actually ? project manager : i do n't see as there 's any need to . there 's plenty of space . i mean whatever . user interface : marketing : we can have have a whole menagerie . project manager : exactly . industrial designer : shall i see if i can get across without just tangling everything . okay . project manager : we 've had more time to prepare over this side , industrial designer : there 's one . project manager : so we 've all stuck our bits and pieces in our pockets . industrial designer : did n't think of that . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : 'kay uh project manager : the three pens are underneath . industrial designer : pens are over here . i 'll try the red pen . okay . um . i 'm gon na go for the bear which i 'm be able to draw very well , project manager : you get marks for artistic impression . industrial designer : but i 'll have a bash at it . user interface : marketing : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : ooh ooh i lost it there . i think i 've just knocked the microphone . um . marketing : user interface : project manager : so you 're just doing the face . industrial designer : we 'll g then we 'll go for a a s small small bear . user interface : project manager : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : um and i like my animal that looks nothing like a bear because um i dunno maybe because there 's so many cartoon characters made up after the bear like the jungle book characters and stuff like that . project manager : industrial designer : great . marketing : right . hello . um i 'm gon na go for the dog , and i 'm gon na draw one badly as well . uh . looks like it 's going to be a dachshund or something . user interface : that 's quite good . industrial designer : marketing : right . there 's my dog . um i like dogs because they 're very loyal . and they 're always happy , so whenever whenever you 're feeling sort of a bit a bit down or tired , they 're always coming up and they 're always um quite excited . so um you can always have a lot of fun with a dog . and they 're also good for exercise as well . you can sorta get out and they they sorta never get tired . and and when they 're tired they 're quite cute as well , so . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : marketing : okay , that 's why i like dogs . project manager : right , um . well i 've not actually had too many pets uh over my uh time 'cause to be honest with you uh i 'm not too keen on them anyway . not to worry . so what my daughters have got at the moment is they 've got uh a few fish and so hopefully um wo n't prove too difficult to draw . uh user interface : project manager : as you can see that my artist artistic work is useless as well . marketing : project manager : anyway um . and uh one of the best uh things about fish is that they do n't really take uh too much looking after because uh with most of the animals if you 're going away on holiday or whatever , you 've got ta spend money or get a friend or whatever to look after them for you . whereas if you got fish , you just got ta put the food in a a a dripper feed which feeds them over the uh couple of weeks that you 're away and uh change the water every couple of months , and buy in a few plants , so . other than the fact that they keep dying , industrial designer : project manager : uh fish are uh are not are are are reasonable pets in that uh they 're low maintenance . marketing : industrial designer : marketing : great . project manager : right . okay , uh if we 're still all with us . right okay , so . work has been done on uh this uh project where by um twenty five euros is uh the uh expected uh selling price . that information has come from our marketing manager here . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : so we 're looking to sell internationally , not just in europe . we 're looking at um having our production costs limited to uh twelve and an half euro per unit . and therefore making a profit margin of uh well not actually a profit margin it 's uh because obviously you 're gon na have overheads and various other costs to uh take uh from uh from that to give you your profit margin per unit . and so depending what the uh the overhead uh costs are will determine uh how many units we 're uh looking to sell or projecting to sell at this point in time . so um experience with remote control , first ideas . new remote . so i guess we 're looking at um having a discussion at this point in time to help uh you um folks design our our new model as it were . industrial designer : yes . project manager : so uh any any thoughts ? industrial designer : um i with some remote controls the buttons were a little small so they 're quite hard to press so maybe we make something with uh easy to press buttons . as that is the main function . project manager : okay , so so basically we 're looking for some um we 're looking for a device that is um robust and and therefore uh wo n't get damaged too easily . um we 're looking for a device that is uh what was the other things you said there ? industrial designer : um sort of easy to use so the buttons are accessible . project manager : easy to use . use . industrial designer : is easy to use and see . project manager : and see . okay . uh . user interface : can i just check ? is this just a television remote ? because a lot of um systems are kind of tv video combined now , or tv d_v_d_ combined . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and one of the most annoying things is having like five remotes in the house . so if you 've got a combined system , it could be a combined remote . or is it just a television that we 're supposed to be doing ? project manager : oh i w um basically i 'll get back to you on that . but it seems to me sensible , user interface : project manager : 'cause as you rightly said , there 's nothing more annoying than having three or four devices littered about the uh about the room . marketing : yeah . project manager : and uh user interface : project manager : so a device for for all remotes . industrial designer : sorry , you go . you go . marketing : i 've okay . yeah . um one of the things um we found from the market research is that people often get confused by the number of buttons on them as well . 'cause there 's quite often lots and lots . and um sometimes uh they sort of remote controls defeat their own purpose because you 're sat in the chair and the remote is somewhere else in the room . so whereas in the past you 'd have to get up to change the channel , now you have to get up to sort of pick up the remote . so so i do n't we need to sort of maybe think about how um we could maybe uh develop a remote control which moves around the room . industrial designer : user interface : comes to your whistle . project manager : hmm . marketing : that 's that 's maybe something for the future when you can talk to your television , but industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : but is it in a sense it 's r um mutually exclusive . you ca n't have both the th the one device and then have few buttons on it to marketing : yeah . project manager : 'cause you want you want simplicity as well , you want any idiot to be able to use it . whilst at the same time you want , as you rightly said , one remote for all . marketing : yeah . project manager : and so these are probably mutually exclusive options marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that uh marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : hmm you could argue that experience of using devices and similar devices as people get more and more used to using remotes , therefore they 're more with handling them , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : therefore you can make them more complicated as time goes on . industrial designer : maybe we could um have better instructions with the remote . or are we just doing the design of the remote control itself , or sort of the instructions that would come with it ? project manager : better instructions . marketing : yeah . i mean we 've done some research um about sort of you know what the cutting edge sort of hand held devices are , and a lot of them sort of use you know they 're like they 're like mini laptops . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's possible that we could devise a system where where you 're you 're basically sort of holding a a miniature computer which is controlling all your your sort of your television , your stereo , and where you know if you buy a new thing then it sort of you can link it to that as well , maybe . project manager : okay . um well we 've got five minutes before the end of the meeting . so uh we have to uh start winding up . um is there next meeting in thirty minutes . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : okay . project manager : so um right , so we 've got i_d_ the come on , where 's my marketing : if you just click return it should be okay . it 'll get rid of the message . industrial designer : or not . project manager : marketing : if you hit just hit return and it should get rid of the message . project manager : oh there we go . marketing : oh you 've got . project manager : yeah . user interface : project manager : that 's what i was looking for . right . so we 've got function oh what happened to the user interface : i think that might be back to the start . um if you grab the kind of uh slide to the left and pull it down ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : slide four marketing : yeah . project manager : right . right . sorry about that . industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : okay , so we 've got um the working design for i_d_ . for u_i_d_ the technical functions design . marketing , the user requirement specification . specific instructions will be sent to you by your person by your personal coach . so . are we all clear what objectives we 're looking to meet in the next thirty minutes ? industrial designer : project manager : and i guess i 'll try and write up some minutes of uh this meeting to uh to give it to you for the next meeting . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : 'kay , yes . user interface : i 'm not exactly clear on what we 're designing the rem remote for . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : is this a mun multi-functional one or do we decide that ourselves as we go away and work on it ? industrial designer : i think you just said at the start it was a television remote control , project manager : television remote control . industrial designer : so maybe we should just stick to that unless we get told otherwise . user interface : right . project manager : that 's true , 'cause during during the course of our day we might make decisions based on information or meetings that would change where we 're going . marketing : okay cool . project manager : but at this point in time i think you 're right that uh shall we make it just a tv . okay ? so we will depart . we will stay here and uh and break off . and i 'll do minutes and and we 'll see you in half and hour . industrial designer : okay , that 's great . user interface : okay . marketing : okay cheers . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the style and features of the remote control . </s> project manager : so um experience with remote control , first ideas . new remote . so i guess we 're looking at um having a discussion at this point in time to help uh you um folks design our our new model as it were . industrial designer : yes . project manager : so uh any any thoughts ? industrial designer : um i with some remote controls the buttons were a little small so they 're quite hard to press so maybe we make something with uh easy to press buttons . as that is the main function . project manager : okay , so so basically we 're looking for some um we 're looking for a device that is um robust and and therefore uh wo n't get damaged too easily . um we 're looking for a device that is uh what was the other things you said there ? industrial designer : um sort of easy to use so the buttons are accessible . project manager : easy to use . use . industrial designer : is easy to use and see . project manager : and see . okay . uh . user interface : can i just check ? is this just a television remote ? because a lot of um systems are kind of tv video combined now , or tv d_v_d_ combined . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and one of the most annoying things is having like five remotes in the house . so if you 've got a combined system , it could be a combined remote . or is it just a television that we 're supposed to be doing ? project manager : oh i w um basically i 'll get back to you on that . but it seems to me sensible , user interface : project manager : 'cause as you rightly said , there 's nothing more annoying than having three or four devices littered about the uh about the room . marketing : yeah . project manager : and uh user interface : project manager : so a device for for all remotes . industrial designer : sorry , you go . you go . marketing : i 've okay . yeah . um one of the things um we found from the market research is that people often get confused by the number of buttons on them as well . 'cause there 's quite often lots and lots . and um sometimes uh they sort of remote controls defeat their own purpose because you 're sat in the chair and the remote is somewhere else in the room . so whereas in the past you 'd have to get up to change the channel , now you have to get up to sort of pick up the remote . so so i do n't we need to sort of maybe think about how um we could maybe uh develop a remote control which moves around the room . industrial designer : user interface : comes to your whistle . project manager : hmm . marketing : that 's that 's maybe something for the future when you can talk to your television , but industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : but is it in a sense it 's r um mutually exclusive . you ca n't have both the th the one device and then have few buttons on it to marketing : yeah . project manager : 'cause you want you want simplicity as well , you want any idiot to be able to use it . whilst at the same time you want , as you rightly said , one remote for all . marketing : yeah . project manager : and so these are probably mutually exclusive options marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that uh marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : hmm you could argue that experience of using devices and similar devices as people get more and more used to using remotes , therefore they 're more with handling them , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : therefore you can make them more complicated as time goes on . industrial designer : maybe we could um have better instructions with the remote . or are we just doing the design of the remote control itself , or sort of the instructions that would come with it ? </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think of the style of the new remote control ? </s> project manager : so um experience with remote control , first ideas . new remote . so i guess we 're looking at um having a discussion at this point in time to help uh you um folks design our our new model as it were . industrial designer : yes . project manager : so uh any any thoughts ? industrial designer : um i with some remote controls the buttons were a little small so they 're quite hard to press so maybe we make something with uh easy to press buttons . as that is the main function . project manager : okay , so so basically we 're looking for some um we 're looking for a device that is um robust and and therefore uh wo n't get damaged too easily . um we 're looking for a device that is uh what was the other things you said there ? industrial designer : um sort of easy to use so the buttons are accessible . project manager : easy to use . use . industrial designer : is easy to use and see . project manager : and see . okay . uh . </s>
<s> what did marketing suggest when discussing the features of the new remote and why ? </s> project manager : 'cause as you rightly said , there 's nothing more annoying than having three or four devices littered about the uh about the room . marketing : yeah . project manager : and uh user interface : project manager : so a device for for all remotes . industrial designer : sorry , you go . you go . marketing : i 've okay . yeah . um one of the things um we found from the market research is that people often get confused by the number of buttons on them as well . 'cause there 's quite often lots and lots . and um sometimes uh they sort of remote controls defeat their own purpose because you 're sat in the chair and the remote is somewhere else in the room . so whereas in the past you 'd have to get up to change the channel , now you have to get up to sort of pick up the remote . so so i do n't we need to sort of maybe think about how um we could maybe uh develop a remote control which moves around the room . industrial designer : user interface : comes to your whistle . project manager : hmm . marketing : that 's that 's maybe something for the future when you can talk to your television , but industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the function of the remote control . </s> marketing : yeah . i mean we 've done some research um about sort of you know what the cutting edge sort of hand held devices are , and a lot of them sort of use you know they 're like they 're like mini laptops . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's possible that we could devise a system where where you 're you 're basically sort of holding a a miniature computer which is controlling all your your sort of your television , your stereo , and where you know if you buy a new thing then it sort of you can link it to that as well , maybe . project manager : okay . um well we 've got five minutes before the end of the meeting . so uh we have to uh start winding up . um is there next meeting in thirty minutes . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : okay . project manager : so um right , so we 've got i_d_ the come on , where 's my marketing : if you just click return it should be okay . it 'll get rid of the message . industrial designer : or not . project manager : marketing : if you hit just hit return and it should get rid of the message . project manager : oh there we go . marketing : oh you 've got . project manager : yeah . user interface : project manager : that 's what i was looking for . right . so we 've got function oh what happened to the user interface : i think that might be back to the start . um if you grab the kind of uh slide to the left and pull it down ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : slide four marketing : yeah . project manager : right . right . sorry about that . industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : okay , so we 've got um the working design for i_d_ . for u_i_d_ the technical functions design . marketing , the user requirement specification . specific instructions will be sent to you by your person by your personal coach . so . are we all clear what objectives we 're looking to meet in the next thirty minutes ? industrial designer : project manager : and i guess i 'll try and write up some minutes of uh this meeting to uh to give it to you for the next meeting . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : 'kay , yes . user interface : i 'm not exactly clear on what we 're designing the rem remote for . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : is this a mun multi-functional one or do we decide that ourselves as we go away and work on it ? industrial designer : i think you just said at the start it was a television remote control , project manager : television remote control . industrial designer : so maybe we should just stick to that unless we get told otherwise . user interface : right . project manager : that 's true , 'cause during during the course of our day we might make decisions based on information or meetings that would change where we 're going . marketing : okay cool . </s>
<s> what did marketing suggest to do when discussing the function of the new remote control and why ? </s> marketing : yeah . i mean we 've done some research um about sort of you know what the cutting edge sort of hand held devices are , and a lot of them sort of use you know they 're like they 're like mini laptops . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's possible that we could devise a system where where you 're you 're basically sort of holding a a miniature computer which is controlling all your your sort of your television , your stereo , and where you know if you buy a new thing then it sort of you can link it to that as well , maybe . project manager : okay . um well we 've got five minutes before the end of the meeting . so uh we have to uh start winding up . um is there next meeting in thirty minutes . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : okay . project manager : so um right , so we 've got i_d_ the come on , where 's my marketing : if you just click return it should be okay . it 'll get rid of the message . industrial designer : or not . project manager : marketing : if you hit just hit return and it should get rid of the message . project manager : oh there we go . marketing : oh you 've got . project manager : yeah . user interface : </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think of the idea of a multi-functional remote control when discussing the function of the remote ? </s> user interface : i 'm not exactly clear on what we 're designing the rem remote for . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : is this a mun multi-functional one or do we decide that ourselves as we go away and work on it ? industrial designer : i think you just said at the start it was a television remote control , project manager : television remote control . industrial designer : so maybe we should just stick to that unless we get told otherwise . user interface : right . project manager : that 's true , 'cause during during the course of our day we might make decisions based on information or meetings that would change where we 're going . marketing : okay cool . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : did you get my email with the slides ? ah . tricky . industrial designer : i guess i have to change the pen otherwise . will be completely different . marketing : dunno . maybe they 're supposed the pen 's supposed to go over the seats . might be seat floor rather than person . yeah , put it back . industrial designer : yeah . and do you think it 's . marketing : yep . yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : jo 's making faces at me . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so . matthew is uh late again . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : probably an important man . um . so well it is important for him to be here uh . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : he he he industrial designer : so what can you ? project manager : you did work together did n't you ? industrial designer : yeah we will yeah , so i will be able to to summarize uh our meeting , but still i think uh it would be in very important if the uh as um main designer . i think we can put on the here . project manager : yes . yes . industrial designer : uh basically w yeah we we designed the two uh items . project manager : mm . um yes industrial designer : um , can we have a phone , project manager : but w we industrial designer : can someone project manager : yes , maybe we should phone him . um well um , industrial designer : it 's really w well designed . marketing : mm . mm , object tracking . project manager : when he is not here we will just we just have to continue . um so just for record i i will take uh notes again . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : and um well first thing uh i was uh uh i got an email from uh from my superior again that we really should stay within the budget of the uh twelve euro and fifty cents . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : when you stay in it 's good , when you do n't stay in you have to redesign . there is no uh no negotiation uh possible in this matter . so we have to consider that . good . um so maybe anna , you can have your presentation . marketing : well we ca n't no we ca n't do evaluation 'til we have a design . project manager : okay matthew . nice uh you are here . industrial designer : great . project manager : great . great . oh ma maybe then you can start now with mm presenting your uh your designs . industrial designer : yep . so i will start by the the basic one that uh fits into uh eight euros actually , right , seven eight euros , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh well first for both they have um a special shape , maybe the designer can uh explain better than me , but uh it 's like a surf board . marketing : mm 'kay . industrial designer : and you you are supposed to surf to browse to surf tv , maybe the web , and uh it 's kind of interesting shape because um unconsciously people want to s to surf when they see this stuff . marketing : project manager : user interface : project manager : user interface : or browse . industrial designer : and also it 's not too far from um a mobile . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so people are used to that kind of shape , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . do n't take care too much about the colour because w yeah we do n't take user interface : now we are supposed to give some oper offers right now . industrial designer : yeah . so here would be basically the the the infrared uh uh led marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i yeah . industrial designer : yeah l_a_ l_a_ l_e_d_ , user interface : l_e_d_ . industrial designer : the on-off button , in red . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : here would be the volume . on the on the left , marketing : oh yeah . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : okay , so user interface : mm-hmm , hmm . industrial designer : easy to turn on t and off . and um so this is a very cheap version so there are maybe you can carry on uh matthew . user interface : also so you have uh uh browsing the channels , actually marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so you can go up and down the channels , marketing : yeah . user interface : uh , if you have a video or something you can forward , back . industrial designer : how can you change from v_c_r_ to uh tv , by the way ? user interface : oh no no no , this is a single this this is a model with just the tv one . industrial designer : okay yeah . yeah yeah . project manager : ah , okay . user interface : no no just sorry , this is a standard tv one , we are not talking about that . so and then we have usually there twelve keys but we know that we rel that we have only ten digits . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : the extra two are for uh having or giving an option for uh having more than one channel . and the other one is for the teletext or something you want to browse through from that . actually . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay so project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's it 's t a very basic remote then , it 's only user interface : it 's a very basic minimal thing project manager : yeah . yeah . yeah . user interface : which you can which is which is also available in the market , actually that 's what it that it i industrial designer : user interface : and would cost us to build it about eight euros . industrial designer : seven , eight , ei eight euros . project manager : exce except for the for the special shape , the surfing board , it has a quite a a conventional layout of buttons uh . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so this one model marketing : can i see ? user interface : and uh yeah . sure . marketing : thanks . okay i like the volume control , that 's good . industrial designer : user interface : th this is a magic one but i know we do n't want to talk about that , marketing : user interface : you know like industrial designer : user interface : uh i i i it is a very futuristic , it 's like uh it 's like a brain machine interface and all this stuff we are thinking about in the future , it can come . project manager : marketing : uh-huh . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : marketing : so it does n't actually have buttons . user interface : so that uh then what we look t marketing : did you wan na see ? user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah no you can carry on , user interface : this is a model , project manager : i just look how it feels all . user interface : yeah . project manager : yes it really feels like like like a mobile phone . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : just i 'm industrial designer : yeah actually , yeah . project manager : i really want to talk to it . marketing : it wo n't talk back . project manager : but . industrial designer : project manager : so but but continue with your uh user interface : uh so well project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then the this is the a more a little uh smooth and it gives a lot of functionality , uh in this way , so all we have uh th you see there are only six keys , but do n't worry they are ma they are doing the job of twelve keys actually here . marketing : right . user interface : and so they have more space actually marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh it 's easy to uh use this and uh you have um so this is a standard uh uh infrared eye , and then you have a power button , which l volume , what you have , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and then other than that you have uh channel up and down and uh f slow pause or s slow lo industrial designer : play , pause . user interface : yeah s pause or stop , and uh then uh you can uh you have a lcd display , here project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh y this is a functional thing which can change like it 's a toggle switch which could change the function say , y you press it project manager : from d_v_d_ player to television or something . industrial designer : exactly yeah . to audio and to video on demand . user interface : yeah . i really can change it , so instead of having many switches , y marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yes and and and then you get feedback via the lcd yeah . user interface : the lcd can display what is that on that , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh well you can have a integrated microphone over here , industrial designer : this is the orange button , the microphone . user interface : or in the button th here , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so which can uh basically you want to do a speech recognition and uh that channel a lot of information can be di displayed here directly on the um on your on your display . industrial designer : an yeah . user interface : and here is a small l_e_d_ which is like blinking one , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : which tells you like uh are you running out of the battery , and which is can be useful for the locating as i was talking earlier project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : okay . and uh well then we have a cover basically , basically you do n't need much of the time this , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : when you need you can use it , and this gives additional functionality that tomorrow you want you can add a tactile thing to this cover project manager : mm . yeah industrial designer : crazy dis designer , user interface : you know . industrial designer : okay . user interface : design enter . project manager : but but but but uh i in there uh when this is closed , will it also uh cover up the lcd screen ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah yeah . user interface : yeah . it 's basically to do that . project manager : but but the lcd screen i mean is a very uh well an eye-attracting feature industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : which should n't be should n't be user interface : actually when you are watching the tv , when you are watching anything or listening to them , you hardly care about what is getting displayed here , industrial designer : oh actually well . project manager : that th that 's true . user interface : you know , uh you want to uh and this gives a protection to the lcd actually , giving a cover to that actually . gives a protection because when it falls down or something it it is it is is is it gives a protec project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yes . yes , more robust . user interface : it 's more robust that way . uh yeah . project manager : yes okay . user interface : and you have very good chances industrial designer : it 's low weight . you have to see yeah yeah the the components we put inside is very low weight . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so the the cost is actually a bit more , it 's uh it 's it 's sixteen francs . user interface : it sixteen euros . project manager : okay . industrial designer : sixteen euros sorry . marketing : so it 's well outside the budget then . user interface : industrial designer : then it 's out of budget . but the the main point we we talk about that with our uh manufacturer . and they say basically that the s_r_ system would be uh something like three francs per item user interface : yeah . three euros . industrial designer : three euros sorry . and um marketing : that 's on top of the sixteen , or is it part of that ? industrial designer : no no no , part of that , yeah . user interface : part of that . marketing : so that takes it down to thirteen euros without the speech recognition . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : mm 'kay . hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : well uh if you we can have if you have new more ideas we can add new more uh some more keys if you want to you know project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well i think th th yeah we should stick with uh a number of keys because if we add too much then project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's too user interface : it it should not be cluttering up everything . marketing : what 's this one on the side ? user interface : ah that 's for the it 's kind of a l_e_d_ for indicating your battery industrial designer : locati . location . marketing : ah okay . user interface : and as well as it 's like a blinking one marketing : mm-hmm . mm 'kay . user interface : you know industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you can keep it aside . marketing : i like the shape of them , i do like the the size and the the shape . project manager : well well mm . user interface : yeah . project manager : be before ta talking about the money and what 's possible and what is not possible , maybe anna you can uh give our uh give us your um marketing : mm-hmm . okay . and maybe we run the evaluation on both of the products , both of these two . project manager : yes . evalua evaluation and also the evaluation criteria , so what what is important to look at . marketing : okay . basically this is what we 've talked about already , um , from the marketing point of view . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : we just wan na make sure that we 've taken into account project manager : just do it quickly if if we al already . marketing : so it 's just a shortlist of criteria on um the things that we 've identified as being important to selling the product . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um we just go through these and rate them as a group and then at the end we 'll make an evaluation based on that , so just average the score of those items , so these are the things we identified as being important . um the three things were look and feel , innovation and ease of use , were the three important components project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um appealing to the correct demographic so using those things in the right way to appeal to our demographic . and then goin following the company motto , following the fashion trends and putting that into the product as well . so well do you wan na go through and put through those on the the two products now or do we wan na discuss them further and then evaluate them ? project manager : um , n no why not why not discuss uh discuss it now , marketing : okay . so f just go through onto the whiteboard i guess . not sure how this is gon na come out . so the first one was really very far below budget , would you want to take the price down of the end product according to that or just have the high profit on it ? 'cause if we 're only going to make it for eight euros then we have a project manager : mm , well my my personal view is uh w when when this one is eight euros we must think how can we improve it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then i mean w w w you must just see it we can still spend this four and a half euro marketing : mm-hmm . yep . project manager : and to r because th th th the the selling price is already prite fik uh uh quite fixed on twenty five euros industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so we just have to offer as much as as well value for the for the customer uh he can have for twenty five euro . industrial designer : functionality . marketing : okay so look and feel , innovation user interface : and now it easy to use . marketing : industrial designer : easy to use . target . marketing : mm-hmm . and trends . oh , you following the idea of using the um removable covers on these ? is that part of both of them or ? project manager : um well w w we can still discuss that . marketing : okay . project manager : so um , and together with evaluating this uh we we might come with new ideas marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i mean adding things or uh removing uh of options because they are too expensive , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but um i 've received uh a framework which we can do this . i mean did you have this this excel sheet ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : no okay , this is these are the the the latest prices of our production uh uh production unit for several components , industrial designer : project manager : so we can uh see whether the the price is is within the twelve euro uh fifty cents uh . marketing : mm-hmm . okay . project manager : so maybe we can start with this , uh , calling this one . marketing : okay . yep . so it 's the pink . project manager : th th this is the first design . marketing : and the other one 's green . okay , so look and feel ? where um one is i 've broken the pen again . s project manager : uh there is another pen . marketing : yeah . get that one . um w one 's bad and seven 's the best . sorry , one 's true and seven 's false . one 's the best . project manager : okay . marketing : so on a scale of one to seven ? project manager : 'kay . okay . so . look and feel . well you already feel that uh pretty much i think . user interface : project manager : in i in my opinion purely feel is is is very good , is very good in your hand , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm , yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : so i i i would consider two or or may maybe even one for feel . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but that 's just half , we should also consider look , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then i it looks quite conventional . do n't you agree ? user interface : mm yeah . marketing : on the scale u it 's between functional and fancy basically we 're looking at , project manager : so maybe two . hmm . hmm . ma ma ma ma maybe say say five marketing : so project manager : i it 's my opinion , but i do n't know what what user interface : well i will give it maybe we have anyways the way we have designed it 's like the surf as you say marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you know . it though the look is fine but uh still i will give four in that case industrial designer : yeah . four maybe . user interface : you know . marketing : four ? okay . project manager : four , four . user interface : four yeah project manager : now we th th user interface : that marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : then we settle on four . user interface : yeah . i will gi yeah . project manager : 'kay . can you maybe fix the other industrial designer : uh . yeah . if you press like this not like this then you marketing : no that 's the ink 's dried . user interface : c can you get the batteries ? no no the battery has fallen down , marketing : battery 's low , is n't it the ink ? user interface : that 's i marketing : the b that 's the that that one ? user interface : yeah . marketing : battery there . industrial designer : but user interface : no no it 's not that , it 's how to close a battery . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay ? now it should be . marketing : mm . no i think it 's lost a battery . project manager : mm , try it , just try it . marketing : no it 's it would still write project manager : oh it will not marketing : but it would n't pick it up with the sensors . project manager : ri mm , mm . user interface : is there another battery there ? oh yeah . marketing : you got a second ? industrial designer : try a marketing : well we wo n't be able to tell . project manager : yes , it it has a mm . user interface : industrial designer : perfect . marketing : is that working ? industrial designer : marketing : did it come out ? good . okay . project manager : good . good . marketing : because we 'll be able to see it still even if it was n't working , it 's just a normal whiteboard marker industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : but it would n't be picked up on the the actual whiteboard . project manager : okay . so then then marketing : and the other one ? user interface : marketing : i think it 's slightly better , um , project manager : ah . mm . marketing : it 's hard to tell from just the plasticine , project manager : i i i marketing : but project manager : when we want to include i i i 'm doubting about this this component . it it it it breaks in your industrial designer : maybe user interface : no actually this is this is not going to protrude actually , marketing : okay . user interface : it it 's n i it is jus industrial designer : it 's not a button it 's a led , it 's a user interface : it 's a led actually which which 'll be covering in a curve industrial designer : ac actually yeah it should be embedded . project manager : mm , yes i see , mm okay . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . user interface : it 's will be embedded there industrial designer : yeah . oh user interface : so it wo n't be really you know protruding or something . industrial designer : you can push push it again , you can push it . marketing : yeah . the other thing is , is the left hand one protruding ? user interface : yeah . marketing : 'cause if people are left handed they want to use the other hand , user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : maybe it wo n't work so well . user interface : no you it it not protruding actually , it will go in better into that marketing : okay . project manager : well r r marketing : i 'd say two or three for that one , personally . probably more towards three than two . project manager : i think the look is better industrial designer : project manager : but the feel is is is worse . so so i would also say this is four . marketing : okay . project manager : but w w do you what do you think ? user interface : uh it 's fine i think . my just that um the feel is that um you right now you you do n't see the feel because right uh for example if you press it quite inside now like this , now it 's embedded one . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm . mm . yes . user interface : this is how embedded one will project manager : yes , it basically is the same shape . user interface : yeah . it 's a bas basically the same thing actually . project manager : mm-hmm . mm . user interface : you will be except that in this c industrial designer : and the lcd makes it better . yeah . user interface : yeah project manager : yeah . yeah . yeah . user interface : and you might have a slight thing for to forward and marketing : mm , okay . yeah industrial designer : so i will say two . marketing : it 's d it 's definitely more fancier than that one . project manager : yes , okay . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : i would say two , three . marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : so , consensus ? two or three ? project manager : mm . two 's good user interface : looking like marketing : um , 'kay . innovation . the first one , not really muc industrial designer : basically there is no innovation in the first one compared to what exists in the market , marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : right ? marketing : do we user interface : no but except for the design of the surf . industrial designer : yeah . the surf uh design . marketing : what what features are we actually including ? user interface : you should be rea marketing : are we including like a location kind of thing like trying to find it ? user interface : uh no marketing : there 's nothing like that ? user interface : i think it 's more of the feel . marketing : but th is there any there 's no actual innovation in that at all , it 's just a straight-out remote control . user interface : yeah , yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : the only innova innovation is the shape . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : say about that . marketing : okay . project manager : s so that marketing : so there 's no this uh look and feel thing , though that 's not a technological innovation . industrial designer : yeah . you 're right . user interface : yeah . marketing : so i 'd be up for seven for innovation . industrial designer : yeah . and the and the second one is really uh state of the art , uh in terms of innovation . and um with many more functionalities , and can open and close the the bottom part . user interface : yeah , it gives it project manager : yes . a and the lcd screen is industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's that 's that 's well it 's quite innovative . industrial designer : and all the scrolling uh buttons and menu and pro programmable device behind this . uh could put it at one or two i would say . personally . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . mm . mm . mm . mm . marketing : so what is it , what are the innovations with this ? got the lcd screen . industrial designer : uh yeah automatic speech recognition . marketing : is that in this one though ? is this 'cause this is the th th there were different options we discussed then , user interface : no , we ha marketing : we discussed the one that was in budget and the one that was out of budget . project manager : we just diske discuss it as you designed it marketing : okay . project manager : and then we will will try to get it in the budget . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so the cost for these were industrial designer : so marketing : what was the cost for the first one ? eight euros ? project manager : eight . industrial designer : eight . well actually we have yeah to check again yeah . user interface : yeah , eight euros yeah . marketing : and this one was sixteen euros . industrial designer : sixteen . user interface : sixteen euros . marketing : okay . so . innovation for this one is two ? one ? user interface : it 's a two , i would say two . industrial designer : w w un to be one what would do we nee actually , yeah , i do n't see project manager : why it is one . industrial designer : okay , one would would be without buttons , . project manager : user interface : project manager : a man w w marketing : mm . well user interface : yeah . marketing : the speech recognition is a very good innovation i believe it , so industrial designer : yeah . so maybe we can put one . project manager : this this is it w with the speech recognition ? industrial designer : it 's using speech recognition , yeah . project manager : well . user interface : okay yeah . project manager : gi given that that it works , marketing : give it a one ? industrial designer : yeah , one , yeah . project manager : then it 's i think one . marketing : okay . ease of use ? user interface : uh industrial designer : so the first one is really standard , so everybody i including our grandmothers can use it , user interface : he is used to it act marketing : yeah . industrial designer : right ? user interface : they are used to it actually . marketing : yep . so that 's maybe a a two for ease of use . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : here there may industrial designer : um , the other one is quite easy , tho though . user interface : uh , though it has more functionality i think it should n't be for the user to learn it actually . it should n't be diffi marketing : okay . so maybe a three or a four . user interface : uh yeah , actually in fact i think it will be industrial designer : one me um we hope user interface : yeah industrial designer : maybe sometimes people get uh scared with the number of buttons . user interface : yeah but y industrial designer : and there is a like i would say three . or maybe four . marketing : okay . consensus ? three or four ? user interface : well we have reduced the keys actually you see . project manager : three , i would . three . marketing : three ? okay . industrial designer : yeah , yeah user interface : three is fine with me . industrial designer : because it 's n uh it 's not like a big one with uh one hundred buttons or so , user interface : yeah it 's a actually the user has to put some effort to do use that actually , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : it 's not so easy , like this one the normal . project manager : yeah . yes but then when when he is used to it , i i it is quite easy . user interface : is quite easy yeah . project manager : so so i think th three is good . yeah . user interface : initially there there is a lot of effort , yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : good . marketing : so three 's project manager : what 's the next ? marketing : uh how well it goes to the target demographic . so we 're d we 're still thinking twenty to forty year olds ? project manager : so twe twenty to forty , yes that 's marketing : that 's industrial designer : this one would be uh for grandmothers . project manager : user interface : oh no , this would i i would i would give this model to the old people actually . industrial designer : yeah , grandmothers , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so sh completely changed our demographic there , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and marketing : it 's not part of the the funky young thing . project manager : well exce except for the surfing shape . i mean that 's that 's something which which has an appeal on this group i think , industrial designer : yeah that 's true . yeah . marketing : yeah . if it was the very bottom price range or it was like between this and another one we did the same thing then i can imagine it being applying to the the demographic project manager : but industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . that 's it 's still ye project manager : mm w w w we after this we can can consider uh for instance , making this more attractive to to the demographic marketing : mm . 'cause we have got room , we 've got some budget there to add a few things to it , that 's right . project manager : but as it is now , i w would say mm , six , something . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : oh yeah , . marketing : and project manager : do you agree ? user interface : i industrial designer : yeah because it 's so important it 's i it was written that it really so important , the um the the look and uh taking care of its it targets , the right range of people , user interface : well i think industrial designer : right ? user interface : yeah . uh yeah but but if you sell it in the market it 's going to be cheap , actually . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but it 's going to be cheap whatever though , user interface : so marketing : it was set with i we 've got a set price . user interface : and people can still decide to use the cheaper one industrial designer : yeah . user interface : instead of a industrial designer : but for us it 's yeah we have a constraint that we need to sell at twenty five euros . project manager : mm , yeah , indeed . marketing : yeah . there 's nothing that would make me spend an extra k few euros on that one rather than another one . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : ju just think , twenty five euros , i mean it 's not going to be cheaper . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : okay . so in that case well it 's fine then . marketing : okay . um project manager : mm . mm . okay . user interface : we can yeah . marketing : and the demokraphi demographic of the second one ? user interface : and the demographics of marketing : it 's got the got the the toys in it , it 's got the lcd screen project manager : yeah tha tha tha tha tha that 's marketing : and project manager : i think it 's better , because of the lcd screen which is really an appeal on the on the on the marketing : yeah . project manager : on the and on the industrial designer : yeah . and if you want to target yeah if we we wish to to sell four millions of this , i think for this audience we need absolutely the lcd screen . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm . so , the lcd screen uh attracts , marketing : yeah . i think especially if we 're gon na n have an lcd screen on a low range product then that 's good . project manager : because it mm , ma maybe that 's something to consider , yes , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm . okay . project manager : so . wh what what marketing : i 'd probably go with three again for that one . user interface : yeah i think it 's uh it has more market actually . industrial designer : or even even one and two . or two . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : no s say t two . user interface : y yeah , you know marketing : okay . so , two , yeah ? industrial designer : yeah . two yeah . user interface : yeah two yeah . because tomorrow this will be more appealing because you can add lot of sophistication on that . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : because then you you have it uh d you have lot of things which you can include marketing : yeah . yep . and especially i guess 'cause this has the speech recognition as well , user interface : for the people to marketing : and that makes it more appealing , it 's more of a a new fun toy . user interface : we have to practically test it . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : the field test will tell you how good . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : okay , the final point , trends . marketing : and following the trends . user interface : the trends . marketing : so the trends were the fruit and vegetables and the spongy feel . project manager : mm . mm . marketing : so as it is , not really doing either of them . project manager : i think industrial designer : spongy , uh , that means that it goes in in the water . marketing : well , project manager : marketing : the spongy could be part of the the feel of the buttons as well , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : i know some have you tried the mobile phones that have got the kinda spongy buttons and not not exactly spongy but i 'm thinking one of the nokias that 's got like you ca it has n't got individual buttons industrial designer : uh okay . marketing : it 's got just a one bit on it user interface : yeah i know . marketing : and so you can that feels kinda spongy . industrial designer : but this one includes this feature , right ? spongy buttons . marketing : so it 's sort of , yeah . user interface : yeah . we we we we we yeah , it 's the way they are going to be , actually . marketing : mm . okay . industrial designer : so uh the maybe in the colour we can make it uh fruit and and veggie . marketing : but that 's if you 're using the covers . project manager : and the then we can al marketing : or is it just one industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yes . we can we can consider uh uh is it possible do you think , to to make a cover for s such a phone ? i mean marketing : well they make it for mobiles , it ca n't be that much more complicated . user interface : but why do you want to cover that actually ? in that uh w in the mod project manager : well just with the with the flexible plastic uh marketing : so you got the option of having different colours or different textures . industrial designer : yeah . this is possible . project manager : i th i th i think user interface : uh uh y are you sure ? yeah i think yeah it should be possible like what we do with the mobile phone , yeah . project manager : o o or just two things which can be put on each other . marketing : mm . industrial designer : yeah exactly like nokia phones . project manager : yes , exactly like it . uh , so maybe we can but we have to decide it , we can put the the the fancy f look of vegetables for instance , to to these covers marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and s now try to invest in the in in the features . marketing : i think the if we do the cover that 's really going with the company 's philosophy of having the fashion in in electronics , it lets people have the latest fashion even next year when fruit and vegetables might be out , you 'll still be able to put a new cover on it and then it 'll still be in fashion . project manager : mm mm mm mm mm . industrial designer : yeah . 'cause sometimes look at this computer , th this laptop , it 's all black , and uh it 's quite conventional , and sometimes people do n't like too much flashy colours like this one presented here . marketing : mm . mm . industrial designer : so maybe we could do like in the range the set of what we propose a black one , very standard one , that meets the the requirements of th such people that want really standard uh things . marketing : mm . yep . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : yep . mm . project manager : mm . mm . marketing : and then you have the option of having the different colours , different covers . project manager : yes . so so so that that would make the trends equal , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so we we we really have do n't have , marketing : mm . there 's n yeah . 'cause that 's the that 's the feature that could be included in either of them . project manager : i mean marketing : although it is more with the spongy buttons on the um on the other one . project manager : yes , indeed . industrial designer : yeah , so a a point better for the for the number two . marketing : okay . so . two and three , or one and two ? user interface : yeah , it 's one . project manager : say , say one and two . one and two . industrial designer : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so le le let 's see . so d marketing : okay . project manager : this one has spongy but buttons ? industrial designer : yeah , the blue one uh spongy . user interface : yeah , it says a project manager : mm , i see , yes okay . good . marketing : okay so the average of that is three six nine divided by five , so five mm nine by five , one point s eight ? project manager : just add it . industrial designer : nine . project manager : you know . three , six , seven . user interface : one point six , one point one point eight yeah . marketing : this one , eleven thirteen nineteen twenty one , divided by five is four point two user interface : four point uh four point two . industrial designer : very good . marketing : okay . but we still got a very different price for those two so they 're not really comparable yet anyway . project manager : mm-hmm . we we must try to get them closer . industrial designer : yeah , it 's right , yeah that 's right . marketing : yep . project manager : both in i i or we just have to choose . and adapt . because , when we choose for this one we have to we have to make it more attractive marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and w when we to d for this one we have to make it more cheap . marketing : well it 's easier to just make that one cheaper by just taking the speech recognition out . project manager : yes , well marketing : that 'll basically take us down to the budget . project manager : but i 'm now did y did you work with the same prices that i have here ? industrial designer : so i i give yeah i just give a call with the manufacturer uh and uh i explained them and they told me this could be possible for sixteen fr euros . uh unfortunately we did n't see this chip , uh matthew , user interface : yeah . yep . project manager : mm , tha industrial designer : so maybe we have to recap with this one . user interface : maybe we ought to reconsider everything with this , yeah . project manager : well yes , well uh re reconsider it . so let 's let 's try to to model this this phone in this sheet , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : uh what kind of energy source uh i i we did n't speak about that . it 's a it 's a normal battery , or user interface : yeah , it migh it it 'll need uh more than a conventional one , it wo n't be uh just maybe you might use a a_a_ battery actually . what do you say , mael ? industrial designer : for this one it 's a normal battery . project manager : yes . just so one battery . 'kay . electronics . given speech recognition i think w you should go for the less fancy chip . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh sample speaker , yeah . project manager : yeah , yes , or sample sensor , yes . industrial designer : sample , yeah , this one . project manager : yes , this one . okay . case ? um , industrial designer : so user interface : curved . double curved yeah right . project manager : i see i user interface : it 's uh project manager : double curve . marketing : yeah , it 's gon na be more than just the biggest case , definitely . project manager : mm . industrial designer : so which one are we talking to ? user interface : are you talking about this or that ? industrial designer : well marketing : either of them . project manager : oh yes , we are talking about , but they have the same shape , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm . they 're both going to be not basic cases . project manager : but , actually bu industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so th th this would be double curves ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'kay . uh , plastic would be the material . marketing : yeah . the basic one , yep . industrial designer : is it zero franc ? user interface : a special colour ? project manager : uh special colour , now we leave it to the covers . user interface : uh marketing : so now we 're either going button or lcds , lcd display . project manager : push . mm , yes , but industrial designer : lcd is . it 's okay . just say lcd . marketing : is that price per unit , or for the whole thing ? project manager : yeah th now this is per per unit , this number of components . user interface : ah good . marketing : so it would need twelve buttons . user interface : yeah , we might need a scroll wheel , right , for that ? industrial designer : no but for this one it 's twelve euro . user interface : no , for that one also . industrial designer : there are twelve ? project manager : so , one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine , user interface : yeah that 's a scroll . project manager : t yes . twelve i believe . so this comes to eighteen . marketing : mm . and that 's without any special button supplements . user interface : yeah , one scroll wheel you might need . project manager : so marketing : so we 'd have a special colour , special form and special material on all of them . they 're not just standard buttons . user interface : uh project manager : so i think but th do you agree th that thi industrial designer : wait a minute , it 's not it 's not double curved , it 's single curved , right ? because it 's there is no like . marketing : but i thought it would be curved on two it 's like it 's curved on the sides and curved on the top and bottom as well , that 's what i thought . project manager : yes i 'm i 'm no i 'm no i 'm not sh sure . yes i kno undes i understand what you mean , yes . industrial designer : it 's you know this curve like this so , it 's w there is only is is is there is nothing like y you know in the other stuff there are marketing : you talking about concave curves ? project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : yeah concave . project manager : both . industrial designer : so i think we can put um marketing : you think a single curved ? industrial designer : the single curved in the sixteen . that makes uh seventeen . and what are just the bt buttons , we have twelve buttons , are you sure ? yeah . project manager : yes . uh marketing : we have more , we 've got those the scroll wheel on the side and yeah industrial designer : i had a bad uh bad estimation . user interface : bad estimate , marketing : the sc project manager : w d user interface : right ? project manager : we have we have n't talk about a , but that 's no a is very exp inexpensive i believe but it is not in the list . marketing : we 've got a scroll wheel for the volume do n't we , or is it some other thing that 's not on there . project manager : w ho h is this a scroll wheel or is this a a a sort of button which can be pressed on two sides uh so for higher and lower ? industrial designer : no no no . marketing : 'kay we 've only got five minutes left guys so we need to wrap it up pretty fast . industrial designer : yes , a kind of scroll wheel . marketing : so this is even more than the um than the cost you gave , the sixteen euros . project manager : mm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay , user interface : industrial designer : so based on that , yeah , um where is the es okay sample speaker user interface : that is the sample sensor and sample speaker . project manager : so um industrial designer : but still , yeah it user interface : we just need that actually . we need one . project manager : we 're we we could go for the for the for the for the for a simple chip , but then we ca n't have the the speech recognition , yes ? yes ? industrial designer : no we can not , yeah . project manager : so so w when we w a industrial designer : so project manager : this would this would be cutting the speech recognition . industrial designer : but the um yeah but if you have the near the lcd you can um choose select between um you know like uni universal between audio , tv and v_c_r_ , and this needs a needs a advanced chip . project manager : transti industrial designer : right , matthew ? user interface : oh i i it industrial designer : or regular chip ? user interface : i think it 's going to be y y industrial designer : i think yeah regular , today we you can do that with regular chip . user interface : yeah it 's th with the regular chip , yeah . project manager : say say it 's regular , regular chip , industrial designer : yeah . okay . okay . project manager : and we still on fifteen , user interface : yeah . project manager : so industrial designer : so . and what about the number of buttons buttons uh my matthew ? project manager : yes but that maybe well we can just say user interface : uh industrial designer : when you look at this w , this u uh item , user interface : yeah . project manager : ca l we are just when we just want to uh to cut the number of buttons we have to make seven to to fit in in twelve twelve fifty . industrial designer : but project manager : so is it possible ? marketing : but that 's seven basic buttons right , seven buttons without any adds-on , without special colours or form or material . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : that 'll be then we have uh have to ask the user to press it several times . industrial designer : you can not make a phone to your boss saying twelve fifty is really really low , project manager : user interface : project manager : no no , marketing : well project manager : he he he i i user interface : marketing : so the lcd display is is three francs , sorry three euros , by itself . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh we do n't want to to change that right ? we we really want a lcd user interface : uh project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : other otherwise we w wouldn not get the market . project manager : otherwise y you ha you have a s ve very normal uh thing like this . industrial designer : it 's evident . yeah . marketing : so twelve euro fifty , we got two off of the battery , industrial designer : and i dunno marketing : we ca n't do anything about that , so ten fifty , if we want an lcd dispra display , that 's seven fifty um , so we 've got seven fifty to use for the case and for the buttons . and the chip . sorry the chip 's up there already . project manager : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . marketing : so we 're gon na have to scale this down to get within budget , there 's no doubt about that . project manager : a industrial designer : so wha what what each of us think about the because it 's measure point the lcd , um do you think it 's important ? user interface : or we could even replace them by buttons actually . industrial designer : because sometimes whe when you watch the tv in fact , you have a big display and maybe you do n't need one more in your hands ? i dunno , i 'm just asking . project manager : mm user interface : a actually it depends , it depends what kind of functionalities you want to add into it , for example if you add two more functionalities then better you add two more buttons , or and you 'll have lcd display which is that is going to bring the cost by two two euros at least . marketing : mm . yeah . i think , unless we can really drive these prices down we need to get rid of the lcd display . user interface : okay so we can get rid of it industrial designer : yeah , it 's true yeah . user interface : and then add a couple of buttons . industrial designer : but uh , do we want that ? on the market point of view , yeah . what do you think uh , lcd is a major feature , or ? project manager : mm . i marketing : for the price , it 's gon na be what we can afford , and it 's looking like we ca n't afford the lcd display , there 's no way we can get it in there . mm . project manager : i think we have to come to a decision now , just i i think we we what we just do i is vote about the uh the lcd uh display marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so industrial designer : you assume , you want a democratic voyt vote , right ? okay . project manager : yes . yes . one man one vote . industrial designer : okay . project manager : s so who thinks the the lcd disply display should be i should be in it ? marketing : i th i 'd like t it to be in but i ca n't see it happening . i ca n't see it fitting in . project manager : mm . mm-hmm mm-hmm . user interface : i think but industrial designer : we need to be . marketing : bu y you 're a power voter uh veto anyway as project manager . project manager : mm-hmm , i know , but industrial designer : yeah . . user interface : yeah but the only thing is that what is the multiple functionalities you want to include with that . marketing : well we have to make a decision now , that 's it . user interface : yeah . project manager : so uh uh having an lcd s display is just uh uh have very very limited amount of buttons . is that acceptable ? ca can i have can the functions be implement in an you 've you you agree . user interface : w i i i just project manager : so hav hav having seven buttons , instead of twelve . user interface : yeah . project manager : so that wou would be cutting cutting suh say about these buttons . industrial designer : because one yeah th show me that uh actually we could in fact we move these three buttons and have three uh possibilities for each of the three here . here one , at the middle , and at the bottom . marketing : mm . i think then we we 're really losing ease of use . industrial designer : okay , . user interface : that will create another problem . for the people to use it . it 's not going to be easy . doing that . marketing : okay . project manager : mm . so um industrial designer : okay . project manager : i i think we should we should cut the lcd screen . that that 's that 's my opinion . user interface : no , it 's okay , you uh cut the lcd screen project manager : just user interface : and introduce two more buttons . marketing : okay . so lcd 's out , is speech rec out now ? we 've industrial designer : the speech recognition is out . because of the budget , yeah . project manager : uh where , l_c_ okay w we now we can just uh marketing : so are we basically back to the original one now , back to the first version ? which turns out to be on budget exactly , pretty much . with these new costings . user interface : yeah . marketing : so just look at forget that one and look at that one now . project manager : yes . yes . i th i th i think w we just go for this one industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and that that now twelve euros is the is is the price , okay . marketing : okay . well that 's that 's project manager : my m my supervisor will be glad that it 's fifty cents cheaper than he expected . industrial designer : actually yeah , we we we will not need the really uh expert designers um because the amount , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yep . so w we can go back and l talk to the suppliers maybe project manager : okay . marketing : and see if we can drive the prices down to add a few more things in but that 's all we can do with the restrictions we have at the moment . project manager : okay , good . then we the same . thank you . user interface : okay . project manager : that was it . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : thanks . user interface : that 's it . cool . </s>
<s> how did industrial designer introduce the two prototypes of the remote control ? </s> industrial designer : yep . so i will start by the the basic one that uh fits into uh eight euros actually , right , seven eight euros , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh well first for both they have um a special shape , maybe the designer can uh explain better than me , but uh it 's like a surf board . marketing : mm 'kay . industrial designer : and you you are supposed to surf to browse to surf tv , maybe the web , and uh it 's kind of interesting shape because um unconsciously people want to s to surf when they see this stuff . marketing : project manager : user interface : project manager : user interface : or browse . industrial designer : and also it 's not too far from um a mobile . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so people are used to that kind of shape , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . do n't take care too much about the colour because w yeah we do n't take user interface : now we are supposed to give some oper offers right now . industrial designer : yeah . so here would be basically the the the infrared uh uh led marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i yeah . industrial designer : yeah l_a_ l_a_ l_e_d_ , user interface : l_e_d_ . industrial designer : the on-off button , in red . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : here would be the volume . on the on the left , marketing : oh yeah . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : okay , so user interface : mm-hmm , hmm . industrial designer : easy to turn on t and off . and um so this is a very cheap version so there are maybe you can carry on uh matthew . user interface : also so you have uh uh browsing the channels , actually marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so you can go up and down the channels , marketing : yeah . user interface : uh , if you have a video or something you can forward , back . industrial designer : how can you change from v_c_r_ to uh tv , by the way ? user interface : oh no no no , this is a single this this is a model with just the tv one . industrial designer : okay yeah . yeah yeah . project manager : ah , okay . user interface : no no just sorry , this is a standard tv one , we are not talking about that . so and then we have usually there twelve keys but we know that we rel that we have only ten digits . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : the extra two are for uh having or giving an option for uh having more than one channel . and the other one is for the teletext or something you want to browse through from that . actually . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay so project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's it 's t a very basic remote then , it 's only user interface : it 's a very basic minimal thing project manager : yeah . yeah . yeah . user interface : which you can which is which is also available in the market , actually that 's what it that it i industrial designer : user interface : and would cost us to build it about eight euros . industrial designer : seven , eight , ei eight euros . project manager : exce except for the for the special shape , the surfing board , it has a quite a a conventional layout of buttons uh . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so this one model marketing : can i see ? user interface : and uh yeah . sure . marketing : thanks . okay i like the volume control , that 's good . industrial designer : user interface : th this is a magic one but i know we do n't want to talk about that , marketing : user interface : you know like industrial designer : user interface : uh i i i it is a very futuristic , it 's like uh it 's like a brain machine interface and all this stuff we are thinking about in the future , it can come . project manager : marketing : uh-huh . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : marketing : so it does n't actually have buttons . user interface : so that uh then what we look t marketing : did you wan na see ? user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah no you can carry on , user interface : this is a model , project manager : i just look how it feels all . user interface : yeah . project manager : yes it really feels like like like a mobile phone . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : just i 'm industrial designer : yeah actually , yeah . project manager : i really want to talk to it . marketing : it wo n't talk back . project manager : but . industrial designer : project manager : so but but continue with your uh user interface : uh so well project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then the this is the a more a little uh smooth and it gives a lot of functionality , uh in this way , so all we have uh th you see there are only six keys , but do n't worry they are ma they are doing the job of twelve keys actually here . marketing : right . user interface : and so they have more space actually marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh it 's easy to uh use this and uh you have um so this is a standard uh uh infrared eye , and then you have a power button , which l volume , what you have , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and then other than that you have uh channel up and down and uh f slow pause or s slow lo industrial designer : play , pause . user interface : yeah s pause or stop , and uh then uh you can uh you have a lcd display , here project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh y this is a functional thing which can change like it 's a toggle switch which could change the function say , y you press it project manager : from d_v_d_ player to television or something . industrial designer : exactly yeah . to audio and to video on demand . user interface : yeah . i really can change it , so instead of having many switches , y marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yes and and and then you get feedback via the lcd yeah . user interface : the lcd can display what is that on that , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh well you can have a integrated microphone over here , industrial designer : this is the orange button , the microphone . user interface : or in the button th here , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so which can uh basically you want to do a speech recognition and uh that channel a lot of information can be di displayed here directly on the um on your on your display . industrial designer : an yeah . user interface : and here is a small l_e_d_ which is like blinking one , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : which tells you like uh are you running out of the battery , and which is can be useful for the locating as i was talking earlier project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : okay . and uh well then we have a cover basically , basically you do n't need much of the time this , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : when you need you can use it , and this gives additional functionality that tomorrow you want you can add a tactile thing to this cover project manager : mm . yeah industrial designer : crazy dis designer , user interface : you know . industrial designer : okay . user interface : design enter . project manager : but but but but uh i in there uh when this is closed , will it also uh cover up the lcd screen ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah yeah . user interface : yeah . it 's basically to do that . project manager : but but the lcd screen i mean is a very uh well an eye-attracting feature industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : which should n't be should n't be user interface : actually when you are watching the tv , when you are watching anything or listening to them , you hardly care about what is getting displayed here , industrial designer : oh actually well . project manager : that th that 's true . user interface : you know , uh you want to uh and this gives a protection to the lcd actually , giving a cover to that actually . gives a protection because when it falls down or something it it is it is is is it gives a protec project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yes . yes , more robust . user interface : it 's more robust that way . uh yeah . project manager : yes okay . user interface : and you have very good chances industrial designer : it 's low weight . you have to see yeah yeah the the components we put inside is very low weight . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so the the cost is actually a bit more , it 's uh it 's it 's sixteen francs . user interface : it sixteen euros . project manager : okay . industrial designer : sixteen euros sorry . marketing : so it 's well outside the budget then . user interface : industrial designer : then it 's out of budget . but the the main point we we talk about that with our uh manufacturer . and they say basically that the s_r_ system would be uh something like three francs per item user interface : yeah . three euros . industrial designer : three euros sorry . and um marketing : that 's on top of the sixteen , or is it part of that ? industrial designer : no no no , part of that , yeah . user interface : part of that . marketing : so that takes it down to thirteen euros without the speech recognition . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : mm 'kay . hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : well uh if you we can have if you have new more ideas we can add new more uh some more keys if you want to you know project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well i think th th yeah we should stick with uh a number of keys because if we add too much then project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's too user interface : it it should not be cluttering up everything . marketing : what 's this one on the side ? user interface : ah that 's for the it 's kind of a l_e_d_ for indicating your battery industrial designer : locati . location . marketing : ah okay . user interface : and as well as it 's like a blinking one marketing : mm-hmm . mm 'kay . user interface : you know industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you can keep it aside . </s>
<s> how did marketing design the product evaluation ? </s> marketing : okay . basically this is what we 've talked about already , um , from the marketing point of view . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : we just wan na make sure that we 've taken into account project manager : just do it quickly if if we al already . marketing : so it 's just a shortlist of criteria on um the things that we 've identified as being important to selling the product . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um we just go through these and rate them as a group and then at the end we 'll make an evaluation based on that , so just average the score of those items , so these are the things we identified as being important . um the three things were look and feel , innovation and ease of use , were the three important components project manager : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss during the product evaluation ? </s> project manager : um , n no why not why not discuss uh discuss it now , marketing : okay . so f just go through onto the whiteboard i guess . not sure how this is gon na come out . so the first one was really very far below budget , would you want to take the price down of the end product according to that or just have the high profit on it ? 'cause if we 're only going to make it for eight euros then we have a project manager : mm , well my my personal view is uh w when when this one is eight euros we must think how can we improve it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then i mean w w w you must just see it we can still spend this four and a half euro marketing : mm-hmm . yep . project manager : and to r because th th th the the selling price is already prite fik uh uh quite fixed on twenty five euros industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so we just have to offer as much as as well value for the for the customer uh he can have for twenty five euro . industrial designer : functionality . marketing : okay so look and feel , innovation user interface : and now it easy to use . marketing : industrial designer : easy to use . target . marketing : mm-hmm . and trends . oh , you following the idea of using the um removable covers on these ? is that part of both of them or ? project manager : um well w w we can still discuss that . marketing : okay . project manager : so um , and together with evaluating this uh we we might come with new ideas marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i mean adding things or uh removing uh of options because they are too expensive , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but um i 've received uh a framework which we can do this . i mean did you have this this excel sheet ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : no okay , this is these are the the the latest prices of our production uh uh production unit for several components , industrial designer : project manager : so we can uh see whether the the price is is within the twelve euro uh fifty cents uh . marketing : mm-hmm . okay . project manager : so maybe we can start with this , uh , calling this one . marketing : okay . yep . so it 's the pink . project manager : th th this is the first design . marketing : and the other one 's green . okay , so look and feel ? where um one is i 've broken the pen again . s project manager : uh there is another pen . marketing : yeah . get that one . um w one 's bad and seven 's the best . sorry , one 's true and seven 's false . one 's the best . project manager : okay . marketing : so on a scale of one to seven ? project manager : 'kay . okay . so . look and feel . well you already feel that uh pretty much i think . user interface : project manager : in i in my opinion purely feel is is is very good , is very good in your hand , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm , yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : so i i i would consider two or or may maybe even one for feel . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but that 's just half , we should also consider look , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then i it looks quite conventional . do n't you agree ? user interface : mm yeah . marketing : on the scale u it 's between functional and fancy basically we 're looking at , project manager : so maybe two . hmm . hmm . ma ma ma ma maybe say say five marketing : so project manager : i it 's my opinion , but i do n't know what what user interface : well i will give it maybe we have anyways the way we have designed it 's like the surf as you say marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you know . it though the look is fine but uh still i will give four in that case industrial designer : yeah . four maybe . user interface : you know . marketing : four ? okay . project manager : four , four . user interface : four yeah project manager : now we th th user interface : that marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : then we settle on four . user interface : yeah . i will gi yeah . project manager : 'kay . can you maybe fix the other industrial designer : uh . yeah . if you press like this not like this then you marketing : no that 's the ink 's dried . user interface : c can you get the batteries ? no no the battery has fallen down , marketing : battery 's low , is n't it the ink ? user interface : that 's i marketing : the b that 's the that that one ? user interface : yeah . marketing : battery there . industrial designer : but user interface : no no it 's not that , it 's how to close a battery . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay ? now it should be . marketing : mm . no i think it 's lost a battery . project manager : mm , try it , just try it . marketing : no it 's it would still write project manager : oh it will not marketing : but it would n't pick it up with the sensors . project manager : ri mm , mm . user interface : is there another battery there ? oh yeah . marketing : you got a second ? industrial designer : try a marketing : well we wo n't be able to tell . project manager : yes , it it has a mm . user interface : industrial designer : perfect . marketing : is that working ? industrial designer : marketing : did it come out ? good . okay . project manager : good . good . marketing : because we 'll be able to see it still even if it was n't working , it 's just a normal whiteboard marker industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : but it would n't be picked up on the the actual whiteboard . project manager : okay . so then then marketing : and the other one ? user interface : marketing : i think it 's slightly better , um , project manager : ah . mm . marketing : it 's hard to tell from just the plasticine , project manager : i i i marketing : but project manager : when we want to include i i i 'm doubting about this this component . it it it it breaks in your industrial designer : maybe user interface : no actually this is this is not going to protrude actually , marketing : okay . user interface : it it 's n i it is jus industrial designer : it 's not a button it 's a led , it 's a user interface : it 's a led actually which which 'll be covering in a curve industrial designer : ac actually yeah it should be embedded . project manager : mm , yes i see , mm okay . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . user interface : it 's will be embedded there industrial designer : yeah . oh user interface : so it wo n't be really you know protruding or something . industrial designer : you can push push it again , you can push it . marketing : yeah . the other thing is , is the left hand one protruding ? user interface : yeah . marketing : 'cause if people are left handed they want to use the other hand , user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : maybe it wo n't work so well . user interface : no you it it not protruding actually , it will go in better into that marketing : okay . project manager : well r r marketing : i 'd say two or three for that one , personally . probably more towards three than two . project manager : i think the look is better industrial designer : project manager : but the feel is is is worse . so so i would also say this is four . marketing : okay . project manager : but w w do you what do you think ? user interface : uh it 's fine i think . my just that um the feel is that um you right now you you do n't see the feel because right uh for example if you press it quite inside now like this , now it 's embedded one . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm . mm . yes . user interface : this is how embedded one will project manager : yes , it basically is the same shape . user interface : yeah . it 's a bas basically the same thing actually . project manager : mm-hmm . mm . user interface : you will be except that in this c industrial designer : and the lcd makes it better . yeah . user interface : yeah project manager : yeah . yeah . yeah . user interface : and you might have a slight thing for to forward and marketing : mm , okay . yeah industrial designer : so i will say two . marketing : it 's d it 's definitely more fancier than that one . project manager : yes , okay . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : i would say two , three . marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : so , consensus ? two or three ? project manager : mm . two 's good user interface : looking like marketing : um , 'kay . innovation . the first one , not really muc industrial designer : basically there is no innovation in the first one compared to what exists in the market , marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : right ? marketing : do we user interface : no but except for the design of the surf . industrial designer : yeah . the surf uh design . marketing : what what features are we actually including ? user interface : you should be rea marketing : are we including like a location kind of thing like trying to find it ? user interface : uh no marketing : there 's nothing like that ? user interface : i think it 's more of the feel . marketing : but th is there any there 's no actual innovation in that at all , it 's just a straight-out remote control . user interface : yeah , yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : the only innova innovation is the shape . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : say about that . marketing : okay . project manager : s so that marketing : so there 's no this uh look and feel thing , though that 's not a technological innovation . industrial designer : yeah . you 're right . user interface : yeah . marketing : so i 'd be up for seven for innovation . industrial designer : yeah . and the and the second one is really uh state of the art , uh in terms of innovation . and um with many more functionalities , and can open and close the the bottom part . user interface : yeah , it gives it project manager : yes . a and the lcd screen is industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's that 's that 's well it 's quite innovative . industrial designer : and all the scrolling uh buttons and menu and pro programmable device behind this . uh could put it at one or two i would say . personally . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . mm . mm . mm . mm . marketing : so what is it , what are the innovations with this ? got the lcd screen . industrial designer : uh yeah automatic speech recognition . marketing : is that in this one though ? is this 'cause this is the th th there were different options we discussed then , user interface : no , we ha marketing : we discussed the one that was in budget and the one that was out of budget . project manager : we just diske discuss it as you designed it marketing : okay . project manager : and then we will will try to get it in the budget . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so the cost for these were industrial designer : so marketing : what was the cost for the first one ? eight euros ? project manager : eight . industrial designer : eight . well actually we have yeah to check again yeah . user interface : yeah , eight euros yeah . marketing : and this one was sixteen euros . industrial designer : sixteen . user interface : sixteen euros . marketing : okay . so . innovation for this one is two ? one ? user interface : it 's a two , i would say two . industrial designer : w w un to be one what would do we nee actually , yeah , i do n't see project manager : why it is one . industrial designer : okay , one would would be without buttons , . project manager : user interface : project manager : a man w w marketing : mm . well user interface : yeah . marketing : the speech recognition is a very good innovation i believe it , so industrial designer : yeah . so maybe we can put one . project manager : this this is it w with the speech recognition ? industrial designer : it 's using speech recognition , yeah . project manager : well . user interface : okay yeah . project manager : gi given that that it works , marketing : give it a one ? industrial designer : yeah , one , yeah . project manager : then it 's i think one . marketing : okay . ease of use ? user interface : uh industrial designer : so the first one is really standard , so everybody i including our grandmothers can use it , user interface : he is used to it act marketing : yeah . industrial designer : right ? user interface : they are used to it actually . marketing : yep . so that 's maybe a a two for ease of use . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : here there may industrial designer : um , the other one is quite easy , tho though . user interface : uh , though it has more functionality i think it should n't be for the user to learn it actually . it should n't be diffi marketing : okay . so maybe a three or a four . user interface : uh yeah , actually in fact i think it will be industrial designer : one me um we hope user interface : yeah industrial designer : maybe sometimes people get uh scared with the number of buttons . user interface : yeah but y industrial designer : and there is a like i would say three . or maybe four . marketing : okay . consensus ? three or four ? user interface : well we have reduced the keys actually you see . project manager : three , i would . three . marketing : three ? okay . industrial designer : yeah , yeah user interface : three is fine with me . industrial designer : because it 's n uh it 's not like a big one with uh one hundred buttons or so , user interface : yeah it 's a actually the user has to put some effort to do use that actually , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : it 's not so easy , like this one the normal . project manager : yeah . yes but then when when he is used to it , i i it is quite easy . user interface : is quite easy yeah . project manager : so so i think th three is good . yeah . user interface : initially there there is a lot of effort , yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : good . marketing : so three 's project manager : what 's the next ? marketing : uh how well it goes to the target demographic . so we 're d we 're still thinking twenty to forty year olds ? project manager : so twe twenty to forty , yes that 's marketing : that 's industrial designer : this one would be uh for grandmothers . project manager : user interface : oh no , this would i i would i would give this model to the old people actually . industrial designer : yeah , grandmothers , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so sh completely changed our demographic there , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and marketing : it 's not part of the the funky young thing . project manager : well exce except for the surfing shape . i mean that 's that 's something which which has an appeal on this group i think , industrial designer : yeah that 's true . yeah . marketing : yeah . if it was the very bottom price range or it was like between this and another one we did the same thing then i can imagine it being applying to the the demographic project manager : but industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . that 's it 's still ye project manager : mm w w w we after this we can can consider uh for instance , making this more attractive to to the demographic marketing : mm . 'cause we have got room , we 've got some budget there to add a few things to it , that 's right . project manager : but as it is now , i w would say mm , six , something . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : oh yeah , . marketing : and project manager : do you agree ? user interface : i industrial designer : yeah because it 's so important it 's i it was written that it really so important , the um the the look and uh taking care of its it targets , the right range of people , user interface : well i think industrial designer : right ? user interface : yeah . uh yeah but but if you sell it in the market it 's going to be cheap , actually . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but it 's going to be cheap whatever though , user interface : so marketing : it was set with i we 've got a set price . user interface : and people can still decide to use the cheaper one industrial designer : yeah . user interface : instead of a industrial designer : but for us it 's yeah we have a constraint that we need to sell at twenty five euros . project manager : mm , yeah , indeed . marketing : yeah . there 's nothing that would make me spend an extra k few euros on that one rather than another one . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : ju just think , twenty five euros , i mean it 's not going to be cheaper . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : okay . so in that case well it 's fine then . marketing : okay . um project manager : mm . mm . okay . user interface : we can yeah . marketing : and the demokraphi demographic of the second one ? user interface : and the demographics of marketing : it 's got the got the the toys in it , it 's got the lcd screen project manager : yeah tha tha tha tha tha that 's marketing : and project manager : i think it 's better , because of the lcd screen which is really an appeal on the on the on the marketing : yeah . project manager : on the and on the industrial designer : yeah . and if you want to target yeah if we we wish to to sell four millions of this , i think for this audience we need absolutely the lcd screen . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm . so , the lcd screen uh attracts , marketing : yeah . i think especially if we 're gon na n have an lcd screen on a low range product then that 's good . project manager : because it mm , ma maybe that 's something to consider , yes , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm . okay . project manager : so . wh what what marketing : i 'd probably go with three again for that one . user interface : yeah i think it 's uh it has more market actually . industrial designer : or even even one and two . or two . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : no s say t two . user interface : y yeah , you know marketing : okay . so , two , yeah ? industrial designer : yeah . two yeah . user interface : yeah two yeah . because tomorrow this will be more appealing because you can add lot of sophistication on that . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : because then you you have it uh d you have lot of things which you can include marketing : yeah . yep . and especially i guess 'cause this has the speech recognition as well , user interface : for the people to marketing : and that makes it more appealing , it 's more of a a new fun toy . user interface : we have to practically test it . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : the field test will tell you how good . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : okay , the final point , trends . marketing : and following the trends . user interface : the trends . marketing : so the trends were the fruit and vegetables and the spongy feel . project manager : mm . mm . marketing : so as it is , not really doing either of them . project manager : i think industrial designer : spongy , uh , that means that it goes in in the water . marketing : well , project manager : marketing : the spongy could be part of the the feel of the buttons as well , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : i know some have you tried the mobile phones that have got the kinda spongy buttons and not not exactly spongy but i 'm thinking one of the nokias that 's got like you ca it has n't got individual buttons industrial designer : uh okay . marketing : it 's got just a one bit on it user interface : yeah i know . marketing : and so you can that feels kinda spongy . industrial designer : but this one includes this feature , right ? spongy buttons . marketing : so it 's sort of , yeah . user interface : yeah . we we we we we yeah , it 's the way they are going to be , actually . marketing : mm . okay . industrial designer : so uh the maybe in the colour we can make it uh fruit and and veggie . marketing : but that 's if you 're using the covers . project manager : and the then we can al marketing : or is it just one industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yes . we can we can consider uh uh is it possible do you think , to to make a cover for s such a phone ? i mean marketing : well they make it for mobiles , it ca n't be that much more complicated . user interface : but why do you want to cover that actually ? in that uh w in the mod project manager : well just with the with the flexible plastic uh marketing : so you got the option of having different colours or different textures . industrial designer : yeah . this is possible . project manager : i th i th i think user interface : uh uh y are you sure ? yeah i think yeah it should be possible like what we do with the mobile phone , yeah . project manager : o o or just two things which can be put on each other . marketing : mm . industrial designer : yeah exactly like nokia phones . project manager : yes , exactly like it . uh , so maybe we can but we have to decide it , we can put the the the fancy f look of vegetables for instance , to to these covers marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and s now try to invest in the in in the features . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the product cost ? </s> project manager : yes , well marketing : that 'll basically take us down to the budget . project manager : but i 'm now did y did you work with the same prices that i have here ? industrial designer : so i i give yeah i just give a call with the manufacturer uh and uh i explained them and they told me this could be possible for sixteen fr euros . uh unfortunately we did n't see this chip , uh matthew , user interface : yeah . yep . project manager : mm , tha industrial designer : so maybe we have to recap with this one . user interface : maybe we ought to reconsider everything with this , yeah . project manager : well yes , well uh re reconsider it . so let 's let 's try to to model this this phone in this sheet , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : uh what kind of energy source uh i i we did n't speak about that . it 's a it 's a normal battery , or user interface : yeah , it migh it it 'll need uh more than a conventional one , it wo n't be uh just maybe you might use a a_a_ battery actually . what do you say , mael ? industrial designer : for this one it 's a normal battery . project manager : yes . just so one battery . 'kay . electronics . given speech recognition i think w you should go for the less fancy chip . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh sample speaker , yeah . project manager : yeah , yes , or sample sensor , yes . industrial designer : sample , yeah , this one . project manager : yes , this one . okay . case ? um , industrial designer : so user interface : curved . double curved yeah right . project manager : i see i user interface : it 's uh project manager : double curve . marketing : yeah , it 's gon na be more than just the biggest case , definitely . project manager : mm . industrial designer : so which one are we talking to ? user interface : are you talking about this or that ? industrial designer : well marketing : either of them . project manager : oh yes , we are talking about , but they have the same shape , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm . they 're both going to be not basic cases . project manager : but , actually bu industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so th th this would be double curves ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'kay . uh , plastic would be the material . marketing : yeah . the basic one , yep . industrial designer : is it zero franc ? user interface : a special colour ? project manager : uh special colour , now we leave it to the covers . user interface : uh marketing : so now we 're either going button or lcds , lcd display . project manager : push . mm , yes , but industrial designer : lcd is . it 's okay . just say lcd . marketing : is that price per unit , or for the whole thing ? project manager : yeah th now this is per per unit , this number of components . user interface : ah good . marketing : so it would need twelve buttons . user interface : yeah , we might need a scroll wheel , right , for that ? industrial designer : no but for this one it 's twelve euro . user interface : no , for that one also . industrial designer : there are twelve ? project manager : so , one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine , user interface : yeah that 's a scroll . project manager : t yes . twelve i believe . so this comes to eighteen . marketing : mm . and that 's without any special button supplements . user interface : yeah , one scroll wheel you might need . project manager : so marketing : so we 'd have a special colour , special form and special material on all of them . they 're not just standard buttons . user interface : uh project manager : so i think but th do you agree th that thi industrial designer : wait a minute , it 's not it 's not double curved , it 's single curved , right ? because it 's there is no like . marketing : but i thought it would be curved on two it 's like it 's curved on the sides and curved on the top and bottom as well , that 's what i thought . project manager : yes i 'm i 'm no i 'm no i 'm not sh sure . yes i kno undes i understand what you mean , yes . industrial designer : it 's you know this curve like this so , it 's w there is only is is is there is nothing like y you know in the other stuff there are marketing : you talking about concave curves ? project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : yeah concave . project manager : both . industrial designer : so i think we can put um marketing : you think a single curved ? industrial designer : the single curved in the sixteen . that makes uh seventeen . and what are just the bt buttons , we have twelve buttons , are you sure ? yeah . project manager : yes . uh marketing : we have more , we 've got those the scroll wheel on the side and yeah industrial designer : i had a bad uh bad estimation . user interface : bad estimate , marketing : the sc project manager : w d user interface : right ? project manager : we have we have n't talk about a , but that 's no a is very exp inexpensive i believe but it is not in the list . marketing : we 've got a scroll wheel for the volume do n't we , or is it some other thing that 's not on there . project manager : w ho h is this a scroll wheel or is this a a a sort of button which can be pressed on two sides uh so for higher and lower ? industrial designer : no no no . marketing : 'kay we 've only got five minutes left guys so we need to wrap it up pretty fast . industrial designer : yes , a kind of scroll wheel . marketing : so this is even more than the um than the cost you gave , the sixteen euros . project manager : mm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay , user interface : industrial designer : so based on that , yeah , um where is the es okay sample speaker user interface : that is the sample sensor and sample speaker . project manager : so um industrial designer : but still , yeah it user interface : we just need that actually . we need one . project manager : we 're we we could go for the for the for the for the for a simple chip , but then we ca n't have the the speech recognition , yes ? yes ? industrial designer : no we can not , yeah . project manager : so so w when we w a industrial designer : so project manager : this would this would be cutting the speech recognition . industrial designer : but the um yeah but if you have the near the lcd you can um choose select between um you know like uni universal between audio , tv and v_c_r_ , and this needs a needs a advanced chip . project manager : transti industrial designer : right , matthew ? user interface : oh i i it industrial designer : or regular chip ? user interface : i think it 's going to be y y industrial designer : i think yeah regular , today we you can do that with regular chip . user interface : yeah it 's th with the regular chip , yeah . project manager : say say it 's regular , regular chip , industrial designer : yeah . okay . okay . project manager : and we still on fifteen , user interface : yeah . project manager : so industrial designer : so . and what about the number of buttons buttons uh my matthew ? project manager : yes but that maybe well we can just say user interface : uh industrial designer : when you look at this w , this u uh item , user interface : yeah . project manager : ca l we are just when we just want to uh to cut the number of buttons we have to make seven to to fit in in twelve twelve fifty . industrial designer : but project manager : so is it possible ? marketing : but that 's seven basic buttons right , seven buttons without any adds-on , without special colours or form or material . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : that 'll be then we have uh have to ask the user to press it several times . industrial designer : you can not make a phone to your boss saying twelve fifty is really really low , project manager : user interface : project manager : no no , marketing : well project manager : he he he i i user interface : marketing : so the lcd display is is three francs , sorry three euros , by itself . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh we do n't want to to change that right ? we we really want a lcd user interface : uh project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : other otherwise we w wouldn not get the market . project manager : otherwise y you ha you have a s ve very normal uh thing like this . industrial designer : it 's evident . yeah . marketing : so twelve euro fifty , we got two off of the battery , industrial designer : and i dunno marketing : we ca n't do anything about that , so ten fifty , if we want an lcd dispra display , that 's seven fifty um , so we 've got seven fifty to use for the case and for the buttons . and the chip . sorry the chip 's up there already . project manager : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . marketing : so we 're gon na have to scale this down to get within budget , there 's no doubt about that . project manager : a industrial designer : so wha what what each of us think about the because it 's measure point the lcd , um do you think it 's important ? user interface : or we could even replace them by buttons actually . industrial designer : because sometimes whe when you watch the tv in fact , you have a big display and maybe you do n't need one more in your hands ? i dunno , i 'm just asking . project manager : mm user interface : a actually it depends , it depends what kind of functionalities you want to add into it , for example if you add two more functionalities then better you add two more buttons , or and you 'll have lcd display which is that is going to bring the cost by two two euros at least . marketing : mm . yeah . i think , unless we can really drive these prices down we need to get rid of the lcd display . user interface : okay so we can get rid of it industrial designer : yeah , it 's true yeah . user interface : and then add a couple of buttons . industrial designer : but uh , do we want that ? on the market point of view , yeah . what do you think uh , lcd is a major feature , or ? project manager : mm . i marketing : for the price , it 's gon na be what we can afford , and it 's looking like we ca n't afford the lcd display , there 's no way we can get it in there . mm . project manager : i think we have to come to a decision now , just i i think we we what we just do i is vote about the uh the lcd uh display marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so industrial designer : you assume , you want a democratic voyt vote , right ? okay . project manager : yes . yes . one man one vote . industrial designer : okay . project manager : s so who thinks the the lcd disply display should be i should be in it ? marketing : i th i 'd like t it to be in but i ca n't see it happening . i ca n't see it fitting in . project manager : mm . mm-hmm mm-hmm . user interface : i think but industrial designer : we need to be . marketing : bu y you 're a power voter uh veto anyway as project manager . project manager : mm-hmm , i know , but industrial designer : yeah . . user interface : yeah but the only thing is that what is the multiple functionalities you want to include with that . marketing : well we have to make a decision now , that 's it . user interface : yeah . project manager : so uh uh having an lcd s display is just uh uh have very very limited amount of buttons . is that acceptable ? ca can i have can the functions be implement in an you 've you you agree . user interface : w i i i just project manager : so hav hav having seven buttons , instead of twelve . user interface : yeah . project manager : so that wou would be cutting cutting suh say about these buttons . industrial designer : because one yeah th show me that uh actually we could in fact we move these three buttons and have three uh possibilities for each of the three here . here one , at the middle , and at the bottom . marketing : mm . i think then we we 're really losing ease of use . industrial designer : okay , . user interface : that will create another problem . for the people to use it . it 's not going to be easy . doing that . marketing : okay . project manager : mm . so um industrial designer : okay . project manager : i i think we should we should cut the lcd screen . that that 's that 's my opinion . user interface : no , it 's okay , you uh cut the lcd screen project manager : just user interface : and introduce two more buttons . marketing : okay . so lcd 's out , is speech rec out now ? we 've industrial designer : the speech recognition is out . because of the budget , yeah . project manager : uh where , l_c_ okay w we now we can just uh marketing : so are we basically back to the original one now , back to the first version ? which turns out to be on budget exactly , pretty much . with these new costings . user interface : yeah . marketing : so just look at forget that one and look at that one now . project manager : yes . yes . i th i th i think w we just go for this one industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : alright ? alright . thank you for coming to this third meeting of the uh uh design group . um i think we uh made some definite progress at the last one um and come up with some interesting uh uh w suggestions for our our new remote control . um i 'll again very quickly uh just present some notes of that meeting . um the the the problem with existing remote controls , we felt , was that they 're ugly um and that people are prepared to pay a premium for something better . um they 've got lots of buttons on them that uh people do n't use and find difficult to learn . um and people lose them . and we we thought that f for our our new uh uh remote control that everybody will want to rush out and buy , um that we 're we should look at speech recognition rather than r rather than buttons , and that if we have any buttons they should be very few of them and only for those functions that are actually identified that that people use . that um we want to go for uh a long lasting battery that we gua we guarantee for the life of the uh uh the product and a shape that will be instantly recognisable , a_ um as uh a trendy remote control , and and b_ as uh a real reaction product . so that w uh when people are uh happy with that , they will they will want to buy uh everything else from us . uh okay . so again um , i 'll we 'll have the three three presentations from the the the three of you and then uh we 'll we 'll make a a final a final uh decision . um and the the decisions that we need to to make today , finally , are um what energy source we want to use , whether i it is practical to use uh um a a a long lasting one . and uh i i think our discussion was around the fact that uh if we 're gon na go for uh a long lasting power supply , then basically it 's uh sealed for life and uh if anybody does manage to run one down , we 'll we 'll give them another one . and uh it it 'll be uh , you know , prominently displayed as part of the th the advertising literature that it 's um um , you know , for life , guaranteed for life . um now the the the internal chip um and uh this is where i need uh uh kate 's expert advice industrial designer : project manager : and given that th this has to to go to market as quickly as possible um d d do we go for a custom designed chip ? or or do we buy one off the shelf and and programme it ourselves ? uh i mean i 'm i 'm i 'm n not an expert on these things , but presumably , there must be loads of 'em already on the market that we can modify . industrial designer : project manager : but uh that that 's uh that 's your area of expertise . and then the uh , you know , the the overall design of the case uh is is is kendra 's field and uh user interface : industrial designer : project manager : we we had some discussions last time as as to uh how we might go forward and we 'll we 'll finalise those uh da today . um and thi this is all linked in with the the the user interface , whether we p um go for voice , buttons , or or a bit of both . uh and then uh , you know , f for the next meeting kate will be looking at the the the s the look , feel and design , kendra the uh ho how the the user actually uses it and and andrew of course the the product evaluation . and uh kate and kendra will be producing a a model for us to uh to look at . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : uh so , if if we can have the the three presentations again please , and uh um p perhaps you 'd like to start uh k . industrial designer : okay . um project manager : kate . oh i 'm sorry , oh sorry . industrial designer : um p there we go . project manager : industrial designer : 'kay , i 'll just be talking about the components design . and okay , basically i just uh looked at what exactly do remotes do . uh basically they wait for you to press a key or give a voice command and then this is translated uh into uh light signals which are then seen by the tv . uh the materials we 're gon na need to look at uh the two big ones are the integrated circuit chip and the battery and the in integrated circuit chip uh works in conjunction with a a diode transistor or resonator , uh two more resistors and a capacitor and the battery works in conjunction with a resistor and a capacitor . um . uh basically what happens is you 'll press a number or give a voice command and this creates a a connection within the the remote that allows the chip the chip then senses this connection and produces a signal in a morse code format . this signal 's sent to the transistor which amplifies it and then sends it on to the light emitting diode and uh which is then trai changed into a infrared light which is sent to the tv and sort of seen by the tv and which uh changes the channels . um . oh . uh cool . uh so as for how we should end up uh using this in our remote uh t couple of main questions are the buttons . uh y the fewer buttons you have , i guess the fewer internal connections and internal codes you 're gon na need . um however uh to n not have buttons or to use a voice commands instead of buttons might make these connections more difficult and uh raise the production cost . that 's something we should think about . also we have to work within the company constraints , and the company has informed me via email that uh they 're experts at pushbuttons and that seems to be the most uh cost-effective way of producing it . um also with battery connections the company has some limits on the batteries we can use , so i was thinking perhaps a combination of solar cells with a back-up basic battery and somehow between the combination of that two we might be able to come up with something that uh will last the the lifetime or the five to ten years and we could still keep that original idea . um we also need to look at the chips , uh v custom-designed versus off the shelf , and the custom-designed will give us much more flexibility and enable us to incorporate the voice function that we all uh seem to have agreed upon . um , however that 's gon na cost more , but uh the off the shelf is gon na be uh cheaper and it 's gon na be allow us to produce it quicker and get out there faster , but it 's going to be less flexible with the features , especially things like uh voice activation , which have n't really been used much on remotes , so there 's not really chips out there that would be easy to uh to convert , project manager : okay , industrial designer : so if we were uh definitely gon na go with the the voice option we 'd probably have to design um our own chip . and that pretty much sums it up . project manager : so how um sorry , can you uh just put that one back up again , please ? um . industrial designer : mm . oh yep , sorry . yep . project manager : uh d d d okay , i mean uh inevitably a b a custom design chip is gon na be more expensive . do we do we know uh by how much ? industrial designer : mm . um i do n't actually have any price information , no . project manager : and and do we know how long it 'll take to uh develop a a custom chip . industrial designer : um it a lot longer than an off the shelf chip . oh w yeah , we did the the problem is the the the voice technology is not really highly developed , project manager : right , industrial designer : it 's sort of still still in an ex experimental form , project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh so it would uh it 's hard to predict the time . project manager : right , i think we need to make a a decision here . uh given that the company wants this on the market quickly and cheaply , that would appear to uh effectively constrain us to an existing chip and thus therefore conventional button technology . um uh now before we go round everybody else , does anybody um h have any have anyti ha anything to say about that ? user interface : i i just have a question about that . um does it make a difference if there are just a few commands , for example if you um can pre-programme in like numbers one through ten and pre-programme say , you know , nine channels and then just use the voice recognition to say channel one and then you 've programmed in say b_b_c_ four as your channel one , as your favourite , it 's like to have a certain number of favourites um industrial designer : w just to to incorporate the voice activation in it is is sorta the trick . user interface : and that w industrial designer : once you 've got the whole voice chip in there , then it 's pretty much the the world the the sky is your limit , user interface : okay . then it does n't matter . okay . industrial designer : but to actually the the big step is to actually get the voice activation chips in there and working . user interface : okay . project manager : cause uh i must say i find it slightly surprising given that , you know , mobile phones incorporate voice activated dialling . so uh um i mean user interface : yeah . project manager : i d d for slightly different well no , i mean , it 's if you you speak somebody 's name and it 'll dial the number for you , so uh bu i mean the this this information is from is this is the internal company information , is it ? industrial designer : uh bits of it , yeah . project manager : so uh user interface : of course mobile phones do tend to be more expensive , industrial designer : yes , as well . project manager : user interface : you know , hundred and fifty pounds or something . as opposed to the twenty euros , twenty five euros . project manager : yeah , mm true , again but if it 's without any without any uh p price informations that 's uh difficult to uh industrial designer : project manager : uh decide . user interface : yeah . marketing : also lots of mobile phones have got a lot of technology in them , not just that , so . project manager : yeah , that 's that 's right . it 's like it 's it 's you ca n't 'cause mobile phones are expensive , you ca n't say it 's the voice recognition bit that is . user interface : yeah . project manager : but we do n't know . um . i mean uh i su i i mean if given that the um the technology is not well developed and and given that it 's it 's never been done before , um th th the double risk , uh perhaps we ought to uh stick to uh to buttons , since the last thing we want to do is present a product that does n't work . um . thoughts ? user interface : well , another thought i marketing : would user interface : oh , sorry , go ahead . marketing : oh i was just gon na say mayb maybe it sh like um maybe we can like cut corners somewhere else to bring in over cost . project manager : i mean do w do we think that the voice technology is fundamental to the project ? industrial designer : uh it 's fundament well i mean i guess it it 's something we 've discussed uh since the the sort of the beginning , so i th i think in in our in our minds it 's it 's fundamental , but i do n't know that the uh the upper echelons of the company would necessarily agree with that , so i think you have to project manager : i mean i think we user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : user interface : okay . industrial designer : user interface : well , i kinda think if we 're gon na have the voice recognition for part of it , then maybe we should have it for the whole thing . project manager : yeah , i i i i i think that 's uh user interface : and we 've been talking about it the whole time . project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm . user interface : anyway , i 'm i 'm incli kinda inclined to say that we should just go for it . project manager : mm , right , okay . marketing : uh yeah , it 's the second most important aspect to users that the device should be technologically innovative . user interface : yeah . marketing : from uh my presentation show , so . project manager : yeah , it should be marketing : uh technologically innovative . project manager : right , okay , so . fine . okay . industrial designer : that sounds good . mm . project manager : i it will have voice recognition um uh industrial designer : mm . cool . user interface : okay . project manager : if if that means uh if that means we ca n't afford buttons but i mean b b industrial designer : um project manager : second question , do we need the five buttons for channel change , up down , volume up down and on off , just as a a backup or just so that people can uh j j just sit there pressing buttons ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i i would say we do , yeah . user interface : i think so . project manager : right . okay . sorry , d did you want to say anything ? no ? industrial designer : uh nope , project manager : okay . industrial designer : that was it , that was it . project manager : shall we move rapidly on to uh kendra ? industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : uh um ra rapidly move the cable over . user interface : let 's see . project manager : mm . oh good . user interface : oh . yes . is it gon na work ? project manager : mm yeah , industrial designer : yeah , it 's thinking about it . project manager : it 'll get there . yep . user interface : okay . okay , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so i did some research on the internet and um what you know , the interf user interface are just aspects that are seen by users , um commands and mechanisms for the operation , and there 're just kind of a variety of choices . um findings , so a lot of times they tend to look cluttered project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and these were just a couple examples of um different kinds that are a little bit more unusual . project manager : mm , yeah . user interface : there 're some special ones available , like this one right here , project manager : uh-huh . user interface : which is marketed towards children , um different designs , project manager : alright . user interface : and one of the things that n we need to watch out for is a v_ in volume because people some bring a little picture of what i thought ours could look like . industrial designer : user interface : so just kind of minimise the clutter , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : avoid too many buttons and also um one of the things that people have used is a slide button , like you have on a mouse , that possibly we could use that on the sides for volume , for example , have the slide button on the side , and then you can pre-programme the channels , the voice recognition and then the voice response sample locator . project manager : mm yeah . sorry y y yeah , if i can interrupt you . well d p 'kay , do you wan na say anything about um slide controls ? i mean i think the reason everybody uses pushbuttons is that they 're they 're si simple , cheap and reliable . industrial designer : uh uh i think they 're they 're about the same cost really . i i mean , i think it 's just sort of the the there 's a lot of slide buttons out there . i think it 's pretty much the same sort of connection . mm yeah . project manager : okay , fair enough , fine . user interface : just because i n for example if i 'm using a mouse i like to be able to slide it up and down so i thought it might be good for volume to just be able to kind of roll it and then have the up and down project manager : yeah . good , good . user interface : and then the project manager : yeah . user interface : this is my great little drawing . project manager : so three three there 's three buttons on a slider . industrial designer : project manager : three buttons , channel up channel up down and user interface : y yes , yes . marketing : well , if you g if you if you got a channel up down , we can have a slider in that as well . because if it if you no if you notice on the thing it it kind of like has got kind of if you you know it s kind of like sticks , if you know what i mean , up like one unit , if you see what i mean . user interface : yeah . marketing : so it kinda goes up one , then y like you can keep rolling it up , but it 's like like like like a cog or something . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : so you kinda take it up one at a time . project manager : okay . um user interface : the only advantage i was thinking of to having the buttons , like the buttons on one side for the channel , and then the slider is that if you 're just holding in your hand , and you pick it up , it 's easy to n s know , okay , this is just the volume and this is the channel . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : oh . project manager : this one on the one side and one marketing : uh you could you could as l as like a mouse you could project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : ye yeah , 'cause i 've definitely picked up remotes and like meant to change the channel and turn the volume , or vice versa , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so it 'd be kinda good to have them be feel completely different . you 'd know what you were fiddling with . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or yeah uh th th the i mean thi this is what the user interface : that was marketing : yeah , like the shape of it almost like a mouse , with a project manager : we have to come up with is the the actual shape that people can ins instantly pick it up and and know know uh know what it 's going to do . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , so we we 're looking at sliders for both a uh volume and channel change user interface : um well project manager : of one sort . user interface : i was thinking kind of just for the volume , project manager : just for the volume , uh . user interface : but what what do you guys think ? marketing : dep i dunno if it user interface : we could marketing : depending on the final shape of it , 'cause you could have like , i dunno , it looks like you can c control the volume with your thumb , user interface : yeah , yeah . marketing : and then you could control the buttons with your fingers . project manager : fingers , industrial designer : yeah , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause if yeah , in that kinda position the fingers would be better for pressing and the that for rolling , project manager : it yeah , i mean it it it seems to me that uh it uh it al also has the advantage that it it the two are clearly different , industrial designer : just the way it would user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah , yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : um that there 's no no possibility of uh confusing the two . marketing : oh yeah , yeah . project manager : so okay . right so uh user interface : i 'm just gon na pass this along . project manager : that 's sorry is that that all you want to say at the mo okay , fine . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : mm right . industrial designer : marketing : here we go . project manager : right . marketing : uh yeah , this is my report on trend watching . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : the data 's come off internet uh from executive summary for us on the top three things wanted by the consumer . and we got reports from paris , milan on new fashions . industrial designer : marketing : and uh the most important aspect is the l the look it has to look fancy , look and feel project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh instead of the current functional look and feel . this is a st well i was gon na say yeah twice as important as the second aspect , which is the technologically innov innovative um side of it . so uh and the third being easy to use is probably a given , we have to try and incorporate , so uh project manager : well i i mean i th i think that what we 're suggesting ought to address all three of those . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh exactly , yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : i s that out of sequence ? uh yeah , sorry . uh yeah , and uh from the fashion watchers from milan and paris have said fruit and vegetables are an important theme for clothes and furniture and shoes , et cetera . industrial designer : user interface : oh . marketing : uh sorry , clothes , shoes and furniture project manager : uh-huh . marketing : and uh a spongy material to be used on the on the outside . industrial designer : project manager : mm i had n't thought of that , that 's different , certainly . marketing : yeah . but uh i was gon na say um yeah , project manager : what ? marketing : fruit and vegetables , uh important to this year um important to furniture , i 'm just gon na say uh f like it 's in if if fashion if we 're going for the it looks fancy , then fashion is obviously the line we got ta be going through . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : but fashions do do n't last very long . industrial designer : well that can kinda tie into our changing uh face things , like we could have the fruit and vegetable theme this year project manager : industrial designer : and uh whatever happens next year , we can have the face plates , user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . yeah , we can have a sp like a spongy skin on it industrial designer : yeah . yeah , marketing : and then we can just whip that off and industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah like the kind you get on like hand weights . you know , that kind of spongy industrial designer : mm , yeah , that weird i dunno what that is , project manager : uh . industrial designer : but yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : a kind of yeah . project manager : also means you can drop it without damaging it . marketing : oh industrial designer : uh , yeah , it 's good as well . mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's true . marketing : that 's c cool . um you have we could if we could save depending on the cost of the product itself , you know , could we have uh a cheaper b cheaper power source and then just have it annually renewed ? instead of having a ten year guarantee ? with interchangeable covers , could just buy a new one every year , a new one when new fashions come out . user interface : yeah . project manager : i i mean it its uh i that 's an interesting idea , it 's like the old swatch watch where uh um on only batteries ever got changed in those , 'cause people just bought a new one when it went out of fashion , but it 's just never been seen as a a fashion item before . um that 's marketing : yeah . project manager : yes if if if they 're made in sufficient quantity industrial designer : i i think it 's easier sometimes to have them buy changeable covers for it than to buy a whole new one , because you do n't feel like you 're investing in a whole new product . project manager : w i mean we we can uh uh b but i mean my feeling is that current power sources are such that for relatively little cost you can make it last , you know , a long time . industrial designer : yeah . mm . yeah . project manager : um but if we also make it cheap enough that people either change the cover every year or even buy a new one every year then it it 's it 's even better . industrial designer : mm . mm . user interface : what if we included the batteries in the cover ? marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh yeah . i like that . that all c also kind of encourages 'em to buy new covers user interface : like industrial designer : and yeah . user interface : yeah , so can i see that thing ? project manager : yeah , yeah , user interface : just this as examples . project manager : i n i know the only p i mean the the the the immediate thing that comes to mind with that is that it it it y you 've then got the connection and you 've immediately got a sort of unreliability , whereas the advantage of having it plumbed in is that that the whole thing is all , you know , completely soldered together industrial designer : uh yeah . project manager : and it it it you know , total reliability , user interface : yeah , i guess that 's true . project manager : but i mean i d i i uh i know what you 're saying and uh understand where you 're coming from . marketing : or well , but like uh like more than just the battery , like a complete different like you 've only got like , you know like th uh this bit 's the bit you keep , and this is the expensive bit , this is like the chip industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and this is the microphone . and then this is the power source and the bit everyone sees . and then project manager : i th i s i think if we 're gon na go down that route , then we 're talking about uh even if it costs slightly more than that , um just building the whole thing in one , then having getting cheaper production costs marketing : yeah , you probably are right . project manager : um and , you know giving people the option of buying a new uh a a complete new thing , the advantage of a replaceable cover is that even if they do n't it does n't have a cover on at all , it will still work um totally . user interface : yeah , that 's true . project manager : um then if , you know , if people lose the cover , i mean they they might be well inclined to go out and spend however many euros on a on a new one um rather than a a complete new re remote . user interface : yeah , yeah . yeah . industrial designer : well that that 's just it with the covers , you 're sort of tricking 'em into continuing to spend their money on our products without making 'em feel like they 're being ripped off having to buy a new product . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , i mean it is it 's up to it 's up to user interface : yeah , just another five euro to get industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's it 's up to our marketing people to to ma to ma turn it into a a fashion item . user interface : right . industrial designer : mm , yeah . project manager : um and , you know , as as external fashions change , then we get new new covers on the market and , you know , readily available . user interface : yeah . project manager : and um industrial designer : and that 's the sort of thing , once you get the mould set , you can just whip out different colours , different pictures very very quickly . project manager : that 's that 's right , yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah , like they have for mobile phones industrial designer : yeah , yeah , exactly , exactly . user interface : that are just fruits and animal prints and colours . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so uh i so uh okay . um right , user interface : yeah , okay . project manager : sorry . um we had n't finished your marketing : um oh , do n't worry it 's all said , i was just gon na say uh yeah , are we gon na make this as part of like like uh a part of the f like it it the fashions apply to furniture , so are we gon na make this part of the furniture ? project manager : it 's the sort of thing that we want people to have prominent dis displayed on their um coffee table to say this says something about me . industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . project manager : um this is fashionable . marketing : yeah . this is fashionable industrial designer : yeah . marketing : with project manager : i , you know , i 'm i 'm i 'm with it , i 'm up to date . and you know , th the the design that i 've got , and and it could be a a home-made design , um you know this says this is not just a a television remote control , this is , you know , a fashion accessory . um , so i mean the the the basic shape i is is what we uh i mean given that we 've got you know one one on off button presumably , two buttons for uh channel change and one slider and basically nothing else , um w we need to decide on the just the basic shape of the thing . and , know whether we go down the fruit and veg route , and i do n't suggest we make it look like a banana , but um know sort of the the organic , you know , curved look , industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : you know , t to deliberately get away from the uh um uh you know , the the the the square look of most um current uh remotes marketing : oh yeah . project manager : and , you know , whether whether the you know , the the fixed part of it is the corporate yellow . um mm or uh 'cause there 's certainly you know , the the corporate logo needs to be prominently uh displayed so that people s th looked at it and say right , that 's a real reaction remote control , i want one of those . industrial designer : i dunno that we should make the whole thing yellow i kinda thought with a you 'd have like a yellow circle with the r_r_ in it somewhere on it , project manager : yeah uh the the uh or or b industrial designer : but i 'd user interface : yeah , industrial designer : yellow seems a bit of a strong colour user interface : like an . project manager : yeah , i 'd i 'd um industrial designer : to make the ent like the thing user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . uh no industrial designer : no , but i mean just like white or grey or black or some sort of blah colour . project manager : i d i i agree , i mean we 're we 're we 're simply it 's simply required to incorporate the the the the corporate logo prominently um . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . mm . marketing : and make that a fashion symbol as well . user interface : well n project manager : well , th this is this is the whole point , yes , you know , i 'm i 've got a a real reaction uh remote control to go with my real reaction coffee maker or or whatever . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : and uh then people , you know , people demand more real reaction stuff . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : well i was sort of mm kinda picturing like maybe um a shape that 's almost like a mouse . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm . yeah . user interface : so that , you know , when they hold it it 's because a mouse is pretty comfortable to hold in your hand um maybe we could make it a slightly different shape so they could hold on to it , but that way they can have the volume on the side and then the channel buttons and project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : have the power , wherever , somewhere . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i mean i 've uh yeah . user interface : i mean that was just an idea that i had . project manager : oh no that well there 's the sim my my idea was something a b probably you know a bit fatter than this but sort of tha that sorta shape user interface : yeah . yeah , maybe . project manager : so that you can just sort of ho hold it . industrial designer : yeah , you 'd want it narrower than a mouse though user interface : kind of a c industrial designer : 'cause it a mouse you 're kinda just resting on it , you want something you can definitely grip . project manager : w it i mean well it 's sort of it 's it 's sort of uh a a mouse , industrial designer : so maybe it 'd be user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : sort of a combination . project manager : but held , you know , so it 's you sorta hold it in your hand like that , i with , you know , and fiddling with the buttons . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , and fiddle around with it and press it . user interface : yeah so yeah , kind of maybe maybe a little wider than this , 'cause this is pretty comfortable to hold , and then if you had industrial designer : maybe almost like a hairbrush , like you could get the about the width of that end of the pen and then it widens up top user interface : yeah , industrial designer : and you can fiddle user interface : then wider up here . industrial designer : an yeah . user interface : and then it would have a l uh wider thing to uh have the light , the infrared light at the tv and just kinda change channels and adjust the volume industrial designer : yeah , yeah . yeah . mm . user interface : and the power could be wherever , up up the top or something . industrial designer : yeah , cool . user interface : what do you guys think about that ? project manager : okay , yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah , that sounds um i 'm just i 'm suddenly realising that yeah we 're discussing how much how good it 's gon na be to change channels t we still can just tell it to . i mean are we are we starting to get away from the the voice functionality of it ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : oh yeah . marketing : project manager : it 's a very good point . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it is a very good point . project manager : i think we d i think we decided that w we 're actually going down both routes . that um the we n industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : we need the the manual controls and that they should be of that form , but that uh yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but do you know , this shape also kind of les lend itself to to voice 'cause if you 're you 're holding it and you 're fiddling , but you can also bring it up like that project manager : then you just bring it up to your mouth and just speak to it , industrial designer : and it 's microphone-esque , user interface : yeah , and just say project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah , maybe we cou like w like we 're leaving out the buttons for the the f less frequently used stuff , but maybe we could incorporate that into the voice . project manager : i th i th honest uh my personal view is that if it 's not there , people would n't use it anyway um . marketing : mm i suppose , but t there is the off chance that , you know , th the brightness is wrong on your tv or the contrast needs changing . project manager : it 's cer it 's certainly possible i mean , but they we we 're going beyond w w industrial designer : bu mm . project manager : given the state of the technology we want something that we kno we know will will work um . marketing : hmm yeah . industrial designer : well you can still i incorporate the voice with with less buttons . i mean uh if the power button was also somehow like a menu button you could press that and or do voice commands , and either volume thing could also be to scroll through other options like y and you could scroll through brightness project manager : uh marketing : yeah , industrial designer : and and sc marketing : that 's a good idea . industrial designer : and then you can you can minimise the buttons user interface : yeah , i suppose i sup industrial designer : and still have those , you know , brightness and tint and stuff . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : if we we 're i mean i 'm getting a clear message that we think that we should have those facilities available . user interface : so i guess we could have a menu button as well . industrial designer : yeah user interface : we could have the channels and the power and then a menu button and then the volume . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so have four buttons and the volume instead of three buttons and the volume . project manager : uh uh uh marketing : project manager : okay , if we if we 're going down that route , then we need some sort of display . do we need some sort of display ? industrial designer : but the television would be the display project manager : we actually use the television , okay . okay , okay , okay . user interface : yeah , that 's on the tv , yeah . industrial designer : that things like that usually c pop up on a televi like you hit menu user interface : yeah , and then y industrial designer : and menu will come up on television and have like tint brightness , and you 'd use the scroll , scroll through it yeah . marketing : well i mean on a onto like a mouse , the ru the scrolling button , is actually a button as well , you could press it , you could press that and have it as a menu button . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , that 's true . user interface : yeah , press that is t industrial designer : i never understood how that worked though , user interface : yeah , that might work . project manager : industrial designer : but yeah . user interface : yeah , it 's like um yeah , it 's like the mouse where you just kinda click it . you just press it . industrial designer : yeah , mm . user interface : yeah , and you could just click that to so if you had like the menu then you could scroll through and then click it to select . industrial designer : mm , oka yeah . yeah . user interface : you know what i mean ? marketing : uh yeah . project manager : mm yeah . okay , we got five minutes to go in this meeting , user interface : okay . project manager : so um i d i think we 've actually very conveniently just uh come to uh a good point to s to sum up um . industrial designer : cool . project manager : so um b b kate and kendra now go away and uh pa play play with a bit of plasticine or play-dough , industrial designer : play with play-dough . user interface : project manager : whatever it is on the other side of the atlantic . industrial designer : project manager : um and actually put what we 've discussed into something uh i was gon na say concrete , but that 's a slightly inappropriate word industrial designer : project manager : um to something that we can we can see and um andrew n can go away and th th think about how we can uh actually market this as a concept and not j not just a uh um a a simple remote control . marketing : uh can i just get some things clear just for my sake . project manager : yeah , certainly , of course . marketing : our energy source is gon na be project manager : i think i think we decided that we 're gon na for marketing : long term . project manager : for simplicity of , you know , manufacturing and uh maintenance that we will go for a a long term battery source um , marketing : cool . uh project manager : i you know , on the basis that um that , you know , if we 're going for making it a fashion statement , then uh people are more likely to change it anyway uh before i it runs out and um make an assumption that we we can aim for a battery that will last most people for uh we 'll say at least five five ten years marketing : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and that we 'll w we will guarantee it for for five years um . marketing : and we 're having a custom chip ? project manager : we 're having a a custom chip , but given the the we 've cut the functions down , um that will hopefully not be too problematic , but given that um technol technological innovation is important , industrial designer : project manager : then we need to , i 'll say it again , technologically innovate . marketing : project manager : um and uh we we , know , we must resist any efforts to uh to try and water that down um . marketing : and interchangeable case ? project manager : i i interchangeable case seems to be um um important to the concept . um it it should be cheap , you know , if if we avoid any , you know , electrical connections . user interface : yeah . project manager : and uh i you know , i if we can come up with some way of of allowing people to actually personalise it uh to whatever they want , then uh i mean uh uh this is totally new . marketing : mm , mm-hmm . project manager : we d we do n't know whether that to what extent people do it or not , but if they 've at least got a a good selection of um covers that they can use anyway , and uh and if if we can keep them , you know , rolling , then uh you know , so they can get them in the supermarket when they go down to um a any of the famous supermarkets , i wo n't mention any mention any names , industrial designer : marketing : project manager : um it 's uh it 's good for the supermarket user interface : project manager : and it 's good for us and it hopefully makes them feel better . marketing : and uh are we gon na have it il being illuminated from inside onto the buttons or project manager : um the that i mean that 's no , because we 've got so few buttons that it that actually makes that redundant . industrial designer : mm , does actually , yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah , i think so too . marketing : cool . user interface : yeah , and especially for making them so like different and industrial designer : mm different to feel , project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : and the user interface : yeah . project manager : you know , that that solves one of the problems of b of battery life , 'cause that would well that would clobber the battery life , industrial designer : mm-hmm . yep , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so no , i mean given the nature of the buttons we 're having , it 's actually uh uh unnecessary i think . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : are we having it that it 's any angle , or is it just project manager : as uh as wide industrial designer : yeah . project manager : cer certainly wider angle than than current , marketing : as wide as possible . project manager : so that if you 're holding it , you know , anyway like you 're likely to and uh it 's uh you know , i i it will work most of the time um . industrial designer : mm yeah . user interface : like this or like this . project manager : not like my my mum who points it at the ceiling and wonders why the th th the television does n't work . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : um yeah , i mean i d i th i sorta envisaged that if if this was the the thing , then sort of the the whole of the top would be the uh the infrared uh . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , kinda like this whole industrial designer : yeah , mm . project manager : um so user interface : so you could use like this and it would go . project manager : yeah , 'cause i mean the r reality is people are they 're gon na be looking at the television whilst they 're using it , the chances are , so if if they 're holding it anyway , the they 're reasonably likely to be holding it to use it , user interface : yeah . project manager : then uh then that that 's the sort of coverage that we want . user interface : yeah . project manager : um okay , d we 're all clear where we go from here . user interface : yep . industrial designer : yep , sounds good . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , so thank you very much indeed and i 'll s see you all again in thirty minutes . industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about energy source and components design of remote control . </s> project manager : alright ? alright . thank you for coming to this third meeting of the uh uh design group . um i think we uh made some definite progress at the last one um and come up with some interesting uh uh w suggestions for our our new remote control . um i 'll again very quickly uh just present some notes of that meeting . um the the the problem with existing remote controls , we felt , was that they 're ugly um and that people are prepared to pay a premium for something better . um they 've got lots of buttons on them that uh people do n't use and find difficult to learn . um and people lose them . and we we thought that f for our our new uh uh remote control that everybody will want to rush out and buy , um that we 're we should look at speech recognition rather than r rather than buttons , and that if we have any buttons they should be very few of them and only for those functions that are actually identified that that people use . that um we want to go for uh a long lasting battery that we gua we guarantee for the life of the uh uh the product and a shape that will be instantly recognisable , a_ um as uh a trendy remote control , and and b_ as uh a real reaction product . so that w uh when people are uh happy with that , they will they will want to buy uh everything else from us . uh okay . so again um , i 'll we 'll have the three three presentations from the the the three of you and then uh we 'll we 'll make a a final a final uh decision . um and the the decisions that we need to to make today , finally , are um what energy source we want to use , whether i it is practical to use uh um a a a long lasting one . and uh i i think our discussion was around the fact that uh if we 're gon na go for uh a long lasting power supply , then basically it 's uh sealed for life and uh if anybody does manage to run one down , we 'll we 'll give them another one . and uh it it 'll be uh , you know , prominently displayed as part of the th the advertising literature that it 's um um , you know , for life , guaranteed for life . um now the the the internal chip um and uh this is where i need uh uh kate 's expert advice industrial designer : project manager : and given that th this has to to go to market as quickly as possible um d d do we go for a custom designed chip ? or or do we buy one off the shelf and and programme it ourselves ? uh i mean i 'm i 'm i 'm n not an expert on these things , but presumably , there must be loads of 'em already on the market that we can modify . industrial designer : project manager : but uh that that 's uh that 's your area of expertise . and then the uh , you know , the the overall design of the case uh is is is kendra 's field and uh user interface : industrial designer : project manager : we we had some discussions last time as as to uh how we might go forward and we 'll we 'll finalise those uh da today . um and thi this is all linked in with the the the user interface , whether we p um go for voice , buttons , or or a bit of both . uh and then uh , you know , f for the next meeting kate will be looking at the the the s the look , feel and design , kendra the uh ho how the the user actually uses it and and andrew of course the the product evaluation . and uh kate and kendra will be producing a a model for us to uh to look at . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : uh so , if if we can have the the three presentations again please , and uh um p perhaps you 'd like to start uh k . industrial designer : okay . um project manager : kate . oh i 'm sorry , oh sorry . industrial designer : um p there we go . project manager : industrial designer : 'kay , i 'll just be talking about the components design . and okay , basically i just uh looked at what exactly do remotes do . uh basically they wait for you to press a key or give a voice command and then this is translated uh into uh light signals which are then seen by the tv . uh the materials we 're gon na need to look at uh the two big ones are the integrated circuit chip and the battery and the in integrated circuit chip uh works in conjunction with a a diode transistor or resonator , uh two more resistors and a capacitor and the battery works in conjunction with a resistor and a capacitor . um . uh basically what happens is you 'll press a number or give a voice command and this creates a a connection within the the remote that allows the chip the chip then senses this connection and produces a signal in a morse code format . this signal 's sent to the transistor which amplifies it and then sends it on to the light emitting diode and uh which is then trai changed into a infrared light which is sent to the tv and sort of seen by the tv and which uh changes the channels . um . oh . uh cool . uh so as for how we should end up uh using this in our remote uh t couple of main questions are the buttons . uh y the fewer buttons you have , i guess the fewer internal connections and internal codes you 're gon na need . um however uh to n not have buttons or to use a voice commands instead of buttons might make these connections more difficult and uh raise the production cost . that 's something we should think about . also we have to work within the company constraints , and the company has informed me via email that uh they 're experts at pushbuttons and that seems to be the most uh cost-effective way of producing it . um also with battery connections the company has some limits on the batteries we can use , so i was thinking perhaps a combination of solar cells with a back-up basic battery and somehow between the combination of that two we might be able to come up with something that uh will last the the lifetime or the five to ten years and we could still keep that original idea . um we also need to look at the chips , uh v custom-designed versus off the shelf , and the custom-designed will give us much more flexibility and enable us to incorporate the voice function that we all uh seem to have agreed upon . um , however that 's gon na cost more , but uh the off the shelf is gon na be uh cheaper and it 's gon na be allow us to produce it quicker and get out there faster , but it 's going to be less flexible with the features , especially things like uh voice activation , which have n't really been used much on remotes , so there 's not really chips out there that would be easy to uh to convert , project manager : okay , industrial designer : so if we were uh definitely gon na go with the the voice option we 'd probably have to design um our own chip . and that pretty much sums it up . project manager : so how um sorry , can you uh just put that one back up again , please ? um . industrial designer : mm . oh yep , sorry . yep . project manager : uh d d d okay , i mean uh inevitably a b a custom design chip is gon na be more expensive . do we do we know uh by how much ? industrial designer : mm . um i do n't actually have any price information , no . project manager : and and do we know how long it 'll take to uh develop a a custom chip . industrial designer : um it a lot longer than an off the shelf chip . oh w yeah , we did the the problem is the the the voice technology is not really highly developed , project manager : right , industrial designer : it 's sort of still still in an ex experimental form , project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh so it would uh it 's hard to predict the time . project manager : right , i think we need to make a a decision here . uh given that the company wants this on the market quickly and cheaply , that would appear to uh effectively constrain us to an existing chip and thus therefore conventional button technology . um uh now before we go round everybody else , does anybody um h have any have anyti ha anything to say about that ? user interface : i i just have a question about that . um does it make a difference if there are just a few commands , for example if you um can pre-programme in like numbers one through ten and pre-programme say , you know , nine channels and then just use the voice recognition to say channel one and then you 've programmed in say b_b_c_ four as your channel one , as your favourite , it 's like to have a certain number of favourites um industrial designer : w just to to incorporate the voice activation in it is is sorta the trick . user interface : and that w industrial designer : once you 've got the whole voice chip in there , then it 's pretty much the the world the the sky is your limit , user interface : okay . then it does n't matter . okay . industrial designer : but to actually the the big step is to actually get the voice activation chips in there and working . user interface : okay . project manager : cause uh i must say i find it slightly surprising given that , you know , mobile phones incorporate voice activated dialling . so uh um i mean user interface : yeah . project manager : i d d for slightly different well no , i mean , it 's if you you speak somebody 's name and it 'll dial the number for you , so uh bu i mean the this this information is from is this is the internal company information , is it ? industrial designer : uh bits of it , yeah . project manager : so uh user interface : of course mobile phones do tend to be more expensive , industrial designer : yes , as well . project manager : user interface : you know , hundred and fifty pounds or something . as opposed to the twenty euros , twenty five euros . project manager : yeah , mm true , again but if it 's without any without any uh p price informations that 's uh difficult to uh industrial designer : project manager : uh decide . user interface : yeah . marketing : also lots of mobile phones have got a lot of technology in them , not just that , so . project manager : yeah , that 's that 's right . it 's like it 's it 's you ca n't 'cause mobile phones are expensive , you ca n't say it 's the voice recognition bit that is . user interface : yeah . project manager : but we do n't know . um . i mean uh i su i i mean if given that the um the technology is not well developed and and given that it 's it 's never been done before , um th th the double risk , uh perhaps we ought to uh stick to uh to buttons , since the last thing we want to do is present a product that does n't work . um . thoughts ? user interface : well , another thought i marketing : would user interface : oh , sorry , go ahead . marketing : oh i was just gon na say mayb maybe it sh like um maybe we can like cut corners somewhere else to bring in over cost . project manager : i mean do w do we think that the voice technology is fundamental to the project ? industrial designer : uh it 's fundament well i mean i guess it it 's something we 've discussed uh since the the sort of the beginning , so i th i think in in our in our minds it 's it 's fundamental , but i do n't know that the uh the upper echelons of the company would necessarily agree with that , so i think you have to project manager : i mean i think we user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : user interface : okay . industrial designer : user interface : well , i kinda think if we 're gon na have the voice recognition for part of it , then maybe we should have it for the whole thing . project manager : yeah , i i i i i think that 's uh user interface : and we 've been talking about it the whole time . project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm . user interface : anyway , i 'm i 'm incli kinda inclined to say that we should just go for it . project manager : mm , right , okay . marketing : uh yeah , it 's the second most important aspect to users that the device should be technologically innovative . user interface : yeah . marketing : from uh my presentation show , so . project manager : yeah , it should be marketing : uh technologically innovative . project manager : right , okay , so . fine . okay . industrial designer : that sounds good . mm . project manager : i it will have voice recognition um uh industrial designer : mm . cool . user interface : okay . project manager : if if that means uh if that means we ca n't afford buttons but i mean b b industrial designer : um project manager : second question , do we need the five buttons for channel change , up down , volume up down and on off , just as a a backup or just so that people can uh j j just sit there pressing buttons ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i i would say we do , yeah . user interface : i think so . project manager : right . okay . sorry , d did you want to say anything ? no ? industrial designer : uh nope , project manager : okay . </s>
<s> why did project manager reject custom-designed chips initially when discussing components design ? </s> project manager : so how um sorry , can you uh just put that one back up again , please ? um . industrial designer : mm . oh yep , sorry . yep . project manager : uh d d d okay , i mean uh inevitably a b a custom design chip is gon na be more expensive . do we do we know uh by how much ? industrial designer : mm . um i do n't actually have any price information , no . project manager : and and do we know how long it 'll take to uh develop a a custom chip . industrial designer : um it a lot longer than an off the shelf chip . oh w yeah , we did the the problem is the the the voice technology is not really highly developed , project manager : right , industrial designer : it 's sort of still still in an ex experimental form , project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh so it would uh it 's hard to predict the time . project manager : right , i think we need to make a a decision here . uh given that the company wants this on the market quickly and cheaply , that would appear to uh effectively constrain us to an existing chip and thus therefore conventional button technology . um uh now before we go round everybody else , does anybody um h have any have anyti ha anything to say about that ? </s>
<s> why did project manager agree to use custom-designed chips later in the discussion of components design ? </s> project manager : i mean do w do we think that the voice technology is fundamental to the project ? industrial designer : uh it 's fundament well i mean i guess it it 's something we 've discussed uh since the the sort of the beginning , so i th i think in in our in our minds it 's it 's fundamental , but i do n't know that the uh the upper echelons of the company would necessarily agree with that , so i think you have to project manager : i mean i think we user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : user interface : okay . industrial designer : user interface : well , i kinda think if we 're gon na have the voice recognition for part of it , then maybe we should have it for the whole thing . project manager : yeah , i i i i i think that 's uh user interface : and we 've been talking about it the whole time . project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm . user interface : anyway , i 'm i 'm incli kinda inclined to say that we should just go for it . project manager : mm , right , okay . marketing : uh yeah , it 's the second most important aspect to users that the device should be technologically innovative . user interface : yeah . marketing : from uh my presentation show , so . project manager : yeah , it should be marketing : uh technologically innovative . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about button design of remote control ? </s> project manager : shall we move rapidly on to uh kendra ? industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : uh um ra rapidly move the cable over . user interface : let 's see . project manager : mm . oh good . user interface : oh . yes . is it gon na work ? project manager : mm yeah , industrial designer : yeah , it 's thinking about it . project manager : it 'll get there . yep . user interface : okay . okay , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so i did some research on the internet and um what you know , the interf user interface are just aspects that are seen by users , um commands and mechanisms for the operation , and there 're just kind of a variety of choices . um findings , so a lot of times they tend to look cluttered project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and these were just a couple examples of um different kinds that are a little bit more unusual . project manager : mm , yeah . user interface : there 're some special ones available , like this one right here , project manager : uh-huh . user interface : which is marketed towards children , um different designs , project manager : alright . user interface : and one of the things that n we need to watch out for is a v_ in volume because people some bring a little picture of what i thought ours could look like . industrial designer : user interface : so just kind of minimise the clutter , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : avoid too many buttons and also um one of the things that people have used is a slide button , like you have on a mouse , that possibly we could use that on the sides for volume , for example , have the slide button on the side , and then you can pre-programme the channels , the voice recognition and then the voice response sample locator . project manager : mm yeah . sorry y y yeah , if i can interrupt you . well d p 'kay , do you wan na say anything about um slide controls ? i mean i think the reason everybody uses pushbuttons is that they 're they 're si simple , cheap and reliable . industrial designer : uh uh i think they 're they 're about the same cost really . i i mean , i think it 's just sort of the the there 's a lot of slide buttons out there . i think it 's pretty much the same sort of connection . mm yeah . project manager : okay , fair enough , fine . user interface : just because i n for example if i 'm using a mouse i like to be able to slide it up and down so i thought it might be good for volume to just be able to kind of roll it and then have the up and down project manager : yeah . good , good . user interface : and then the project manager : yeah . user interface : this is my great little drawing . project manager : so three three there 's three buttons on a slider . industrial designer : project manager : three buttons , channel up channel up down and user interface : y yes , yes . marketing : well , if you g if you if you got a channel up down , we can have a slider in that as well . because if it if you no if you notice on the thing it it kind of like has got kind of if you you know it s kind of like sticks , if you know what i mean , up like one unit , if you see what i mean . user interface : yeah . marketing : so it kinda goes up one , then y like you can keep rolling it up , but it 's like like like like a cog or something . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : so you kinda take it up one at a time . project manager : okay . um user interface : the only advantage i was thinking of to having the buttons , like the buttons on one side for the channel , and then the slider is that if you 're just holding in your hand , and you pick it up , it 's easy to n s know , okay , this is just the volume and this is the channel . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : oh . project manager : this one on the one side and one marketing : uh you could you could as l as like a mouse you could project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : ye yeah , 'cause i 've definitely picked up remotes and like meant to change the channel and turn the volume , or vice versa , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so it 'd be kinda good to have them be feel completely different . you 'd know what you were fiddling with . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or yeah uh th th the i mean thi this is what the user interface : that was marketing : yeah , like the shape of it almost like a mouse , with a project manager : we have to come up with is the the actual shape that people can ins instantly pick it up and and know know uh know what it 's going to do . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , so we we 're looking at sliders for both a uh volume and channel change user interface : um well project manager : of one sort . user interface : i was thinking kind of just for the volume , project manager : just for the volume , uh . user interface : but what what do you guys think ? marketing : dep i dunno if it user interface : we could marketing : depending on the final shape of it , 'cause you could have like , i dunno , it looks like you can c control the volume with your thumb , user interface : yeah , yeah . marketing : and then you could control the buttons with your fingers . project manager : fingers , industrial designer : yeah , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause if yeah , in that kinda position the fingers would be better for pressing and the that for rolling , project manager : it yeah , i mean it it it seems to me that uh it uh it al also has the advantage that it it the two are clearly different , industrial designer : just the way it would user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah , yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : um that there 's no no possibility of uh confusing the two . marketing : oh yeah , yeah . project manager : so okay . right so uh user interface : i 'm just gon na pass this along . project manager : that 's sorry is that that all you want to say at the mo okay , fine . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : mm right . industrial designer : well you can still i incorporate the voice with with less buttons . i mean uh if the power button was also somehow like a menu button you could press that and or do voice commands , and either volume thing could also be to scroll through other options like y and you could scroll through brightness project manager : uh marketing : yeah , industrial designer : and and sc marketing : that 's a good idea . industrial designer : and then you can you can minimise the buttons user interface : yeah , i suppose i sup industrial designer : and still have those , you know , brightness and tint and stuff . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : if we we 're i mean i 'm getting a clear message that we think that we should have those facilities available . user interface : so i guess we could have a menu button as well . industrial designer : yeah user interface : we could have the channels and the power and then a menu button and then the volume . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so have four buttons and the volume instead of three buttons and the volume . project manager : uh uh uh marketing : project manager : okay , if we if we 're going down that route , then we need some sort of display . do we need some sort of display ? industrial designer : but the television would be the display project manager : we actually use the television , okay . okay , okay , okay . user interface : yeah , that 's on the tv , yeah . industrial designer : that things like that usually c pop up on a televi like you hit menu user interface : yeah , and then y industrial designer : and menu will come up on television and have like tint brightness , and you 'd use the scroll , scroll through it yeah . marketing : well i mean on a onto like a mouse , the ru the scrolling button , is actually a button as well , you could press it , you could press that and have it as a menu button . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , that 's true . user interface : yeah , press that is t industrial designer : i never understood how that worked though , user interface : yeah , that might work . project manager : industrial designer : but yeah . user interface : yeah , it 's like um yeah , it 's like the mouse where you just kinda click it . you just press it . industrial designer : yeah , mm . user interface : yeah , and you could just click that to so if you had like the menu then you could scroll through and then click it to select . industrial designer : mm , oka yeah . yeah . user interface : you know what i mean ? </s>
<s> what did project manager think about slide buttons when discussing button design ? </s> user interface : avoid too many buttons and also um one of the things that people have used is a slide button , like you have on a mouse , that possibly we could use that on the sides for volume , for example , have the slide button on the side , and then you can pre-programme the channels , the voice recognition and then the voice response sample locator . project manager : mm yeah . sorry y y yeah , if i can interrupt you . well d p 'kay , do you wan na say anything about um slide controls ? i mean i think the reason everybody uses pushbuttons is that they 're they 're si simple , cheap and reliable . industrial designer : uh uh i think they 're they 're about the same cost really . i i mean , i think it 's just sort of the the there 's a lot of slide buttons out there . i think it 's pretty much the same sort of connection . mm yeah . project manager : okay , fair enough , fine . user interface : just because i n for example if i 'm using a mouse i like to be able to slide it up and down so i thought it might be good for volume to just be able to kind of roll it and then have the up and down project manager : yeah . good , good . user interface : and then the project manager : yeah . user interface : this is my great little drawing . project manager : so three three there 's three buttons on a slider . industrial designer : </s>
<s> what buttons did the team think was needed in the discussion of button design ? </s> industrial designer : well you can still i incorporate the voice with with less buttons . i mean uh if the power button was also somehow like a menu button you could press that and or do voice commands , and either volume thing could also be to scroll through other options like y and you could scroll through brightness project manager : uh marketing : yeah , industrial designer : and and sc marketing : that 's a good idea . industrial designer : and then you can you can minimise the buttons user interface : yeah , i suppose i sup industrial designer : and still have those , you know , brightness and tint and stuff . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : if we we 're i mean i 'm getting a clear message that we think that we should have those facilities available . user interface : so i guess we could have a menu button as well . industrial designer : yeah user interface : we could have the channels and the power and then a menu button and then the volume . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : um minutes from the last meeting which were essentially that we uh had decided on roles for each of you , however , um there are some changes that i 've got from on high user interface : okay . project manager : that um are a bit uh well w what i did n't actually realise it was that the uh this is for a specific television . user interface : okay . project manager : so the all in one idea goes out the window . and they require that the uh user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : actually i 'll get to that at the end point number four , um we 'll get what you 've got and then we can see what we can adapt from it . so um , presentations , were you anybody got , raring to go ? marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : raring to go ? okay . good stuff . mm . marketing : um . so how project manager : oh i need to plug you in . industrial designer : marketing : s project manager : just about . user interface : wow . industrial designer : it 's a inspired design . user interface : marketing : sh do you want me to hold it ? project manager : uh there we go , just screw 'em on in . gon na have to swap them round so marketing : so , after that ? project manager : now , it was function f_ eight . marketing : f_ eight . f oh sorry f_ eight . project manager : that 's the wee blue one . blue one f_ eight . marketing : okay . project manager : should do it , good one . marketing : yeah . yeah . uh , me again , rajan the marketing expert . uh , as we have decided in the last meeting that i have to find out , sorry , yeah sure . project manager : hold on , sorry . and if you just click that it 'll go ahead , one at a time . marketing : yeah , yeah . uh actually , sorry i have to see the other , sorry . project manager : sorry , uh . marketing : yeah , thank you . project manager : marketing : uh , yes , i have to look at the uh market potential for this product , uh , like consumer likings and everything , what is the potential for this product and are we able to achieve our a net profit or our aims or not ? then project manager : p press f_ five to start it first . marketing : sorry . okay . yeah , i can , okay . project manager : jesus . marketing : uh then uh the methodology i adopted to find out all this was market survey . a a detailed market survey on consumers was done to find out their likings and dislikings , what they prefer what they not prefer , w what problems they do encounter in all this type of things . and what we got was , we found that if you uh , what they th what problems they are having with different uh remote controls available in the market . seventy five percent of users they do find it that the remote controls available in the market are ugly . they are not so good looking . so , we have to put stress on this , uh we have to take care of this fact also like our design , uh should be appropriate , should be good looking for the consumers . and yes that 's wi uh this will definitely , this can definitely put uh uh enhance our sales . uh and even uh the good thing about this is that eighty percent of users they are willing to pay high uh pay more for this uh good looking remote controls also . so even if the available market goes for the available uh even if the market goes for the available remote control is less even then we can sell it at twenty five euros , which maybe which may seem quite high but if our looks are are if the re remote control we design have a good better uh better look uh designs , then we can hope that consumers will prefer these g remote controls . project manager : excellent . marketing : then and the second thing , some some companies they think that they should have more and more functions of the users uh or in their remote controls , but rather than those having more functions in the remote controls we should emphasise what actually consumer want , what they operate , rather than making it too complicated . because mostly it has been found that fifty percent of the users they use only ten percent of the buttons , so there is no point of having ninety percent buttons making the remote controls too bulky , too complicated too expensive a because i think i believe that technology is useful only if uh the consumers they want to use it . otherwise there is no point of having all this type of things . so this will not only reduce the cost of our remote controls but it will increase our profit also . so we have to take care of this fact also . then . uh it was function i want to go to . project manager : oh you wan na go back ? just escape . marketing : uh , escape , okay thank you . then if we look at this slide , project manager : okay . marketing : uh these are in your shared documents , you can see , project manager : okay . marketing : like uh , sorry . user interface : so , sorry i was just gon na say , what was the question for this ? or is are you coming on to that ? marketing : ah t look all the market potential , what uh how we should design consu our remote controls , what they should be there so as to en enhance our profit , enhance our sales . user interface : okay . so these percentages are are what ? marketing : yeah , these are different age group persons like uh sorry , i can open it in another way . project manager : okay . speech recognition . marketing : uh , yes . if we look at the costs whether the consumers they are willing to uh pay more for speech recognition in a remote control or not , we can find that they up to a thirty five years age group we have a very good disliking for this uh this uh point , like for speech recognition in a remote control . industrial designer : marketing : so we can emphasise on this point also like , because it will definitely enhance our sales in this ag in this particular age group from uh fifteen to thirty five , and i uh and i think that most of the users of the rem uh tv are belong to this age group . so we should look project manager : hmm . we 're als we we 're looking at who buys it as well . marketing : yeah . we can look at that that factor also , so yes . project manager : uh , which i think the twenty five to thirty five is uh usual , sort of . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm , mm . marketing : so , and and then project manager : fifteen to twe marketing : yes . i think so . uh if we look at this data how how uh h how what are the problems the consumers are facing with the existing remote controls in the market . project manager : marketing : they find that thirt uh thirty five percent uh thirty four percent of the consumers they find too difficult to operate a remote control . so it should be in such a way that it should be easy to learn how to operate these remote controls and we should provide pl uh spe uh proper manuals for its use also so as that people consumers could easily learn . they need not to have any , much technical knowledge to see uh to know how to operate these remote controls . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so this is also a very goo uh major factor to loo uh take into consideration to enhance our profits and sales . so um this is all about project manager : okay . marketing : uh market potential by me . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : uh , yes , th thank you . project manager : okay , thank you . um , follow on with helen ? yeah please . user interface : yep , sure , that 's cool , um marketing : yeah we have to take that out . project manager : oh , so we do yeah . marketing : sorry . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : fun and games . marketing : sorry . project manager : do n't know if the cable 's gon na be long enough . marketing : uh sorry , i have . project manager : i think i just kicked over whatever it runs on underneath as well . marketing : brian , this one also i . yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : thank you very much brian . user interface : i can turn my computer quickly if that 's okay . marketing : if you want me to help , yeah . user interface : um , yep . project manager : marketing : yeah . user interface : okay , and then what do i press , f_ eight ? marketing : uh f_ eight . function f_ eight . project manager : function f_ eight . user interface : oh right . marketing : mm s . user interface : okay , cool . marketing : it 's not coming . function f_ eight , okay . yeah . user interface : yeah . no signal . marketing : computer . computer adjusting , yeah . project manager : there you go . user interface : okay . cool . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay and then how do i press the the big one , to get it on to the big project manager : uh f_ five . user interface : f_ five and i press that again to get it off as well do i ? marketing : escape . project manager : um , f_ five and escape 'll bring it back and just uh the left button for advancing . user interface : okay , so um i 'm the interface design designer , user interface designer sorry , uh i 'm concerned with um w what effect the apparatus should have on the user and um i 'm i 'm also i want to point out that our motto , put the fashion in electronics , project manager : user interface : so obviously we as a company we want to make our products trendy and fashionable , it 's a big concern of ours . okay , and how do i press n just the next button ? project manager : uh just a left uh user interface : the arrow ? okay . project manager : left mouse button . user interface : so um i looked at existing designs and also um the information that raj gave us was very useful about what people like , what people dislike . um and what people fashionable , because we said people between twenty five and thirty five were the main um buyers of of our tv i think . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . user interface : so um what they like and what they find fashionable . project manager : 'kay . user interface : and ergonomics , we said um , i do n't know i have n't actually been able to do any of this myself , project manager : industrial designer : user interface : but um maybe that comes up , i do n't know . project manager : that can come under arlo as well . user interface : and the findings , well the basic that was the basic function to send messages to the television set . that 's what people want to do . um , so they need to be included , um , but i 've got some pictures here of some leading ones . i do n't know how to get to them , project manager : uh if you if you escape then you can see your bar . user interface : do i press f_ five is it ? escape ? oh okay , cool . i have n't got my glasses on so i hope it 's this one . project manager : uh okay . user interface : these are two leading um remote controls at the moment . project manager : 'kay . user interface : you know they 're grey , they 've i mean this one 's got loads of buttons , it 's hard to tell from here what they actually do , project manager : user interface : and they do n't look very exciting at all . um , personally i prefer this one just because it 's looks easier use , it 's a bit more sleek with more of this silver stuff , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um , but there you go , that 's what we 're up against , project manager : user interface : and i think we can do much better than that . project manager : we hope so . industrial designer : of course . user interface : um hang on . f_ five , project manager : user interface : okay , sorry . personal preferences . um , well i think we need to l i think the ergonomics is quite um important , um project manager : yeah , particularly if we 've uh there was a bit in raj 's about r_s_i_ and things as well . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh-huh . and um i thought not too edgy and like a box , more kind of hand-held more um not as uh computery and project manager : organic . user interface : or organic , yeah , more organic shape i think . um simple designs , like the last one we just saw , not too many buttons and as raj pointed out , only ten percent fifty percent of people only use ten percent of the buttons , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so i think what we can miss out on the buttons we can make up for in design and and how nice it looks . project manager : sales , . okay . user interface : um , hand-held and portable i think is portamint is important because t_f_t_ have just um released um i think is it a a remote control for presentations or uh and a big seven inch big screen , anyway , so um project manager : yeah it 's like a , yeah . it 's . user interface : yeah , no seven inches is n't that big but um anyway um so hand-held and portable and uh m i thought about other functions for tv but as you pointed out people do n't actually want that , project manager : right . marketing : yeah . project manager : and also the company want to keep it stuck to the tv for uh to keep down the production time . user interface : so maybe we forget about that . it 's for one tv oh right okay , sure . and so the last thing i thought w which i quickly mentioned in the other one was maybe a bit of a gimmick to set us apart from other people , like glow-in-the-dark project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : exactly . yeah . user interface : um which does already e exist but it 's not very widely used i do n't think . project manager : yeah . user interface : easy finder with the a whistle function or something , project manager : okay . user interface : or rechargeable station because it 's a pain when you run out of batteries . project manager : yeah . user interface : and i think that , yep , that 's it . project manager : that 's cool . industrial designer : so uh , i noticed your talk about speech recognition and whistling , user interface : okay ? mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh i was just curious to know , have we done any research into how many people can whistle ? um , or if project manager : user interface : industrial designer : is that a function we want in the remote ? project manager : um , do you have trouble whistling ? user interface : um , i have n't been able to industrial designer : i do n't , but i i know a lot of people do right . project manager : really ? industrial designer : yeah it just project manager : ooh . industrial designer : i mean it has to be a certain kind of whistle too , right ? project manager : yeah , i suppose that 's true . user interface : mm-hmm , yeah project manager : well i suppo uh you could y you could have the user interface : or some sort of voice project manager : you could have the basically um instead of a whistle if it 's got the voice recognition you could have it just , you know , where are you ? . industrial designer : that 's costly though . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um a much easier thing is just any loud noise like clapping um , shouting , you know , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh and then , what would the response be ? it beeps back at you or something ? project manager : sounds good . user interface : yeah , something . industrial designer : okay . user interface : industrial designer : well , uh let me set this up . so i plug it in , press f_ five ? function f_ five ? project manager : function f_ eight for the um the uh industrial designer : or function f_ eight ? okay . user interface : oh you need to twiddle the thingamibobsy thing . industrial designer : okay . i think it 's uh just to lock it in . it 's got it . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . project manager : industrial designer : um . so as the industrial designer my job is to take an input from you guys , user interface : industrial designer : um so it 's good you went first , project manager : alright . industrial designer : and i jotted down some notes as to what are the b needs and uh what kind of novel features we can add to differentiate our product from the others . user interface : project manager : let 's remember that . industrial designer : um so raj told us that uh consumers are willing to spend more for fancy products , and um he also mentioned that uh the current products do n't always match users ' operating behaviour . um , a lot of the buttons are n't used , and uh he mentioned that they 're not fun to use . and uh a novel feature which uh we just brought up was this this automatic speech recognition feature or noise detection feature for when you lose the remote , there could be a little microphone on it , and any noise over a certain threshold um it 'll pick up as a a distress signal um from you and it 'll beep back and say you know oh here i am or something of this sort . project manager : mm-hmm . but sure surely that would have to be um sort of specific rather than above a threshold 'cause if you had a loud movie on you 're likely to get it beeping back at you . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh yeah , yeah , that 's true . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well maybe you could have a um hmm tha that would be a consideration to take into account yes . um . project manager : sorry i did n't mean to derail you there . industrial designer : yeah well tha that 's uh for later down the road um , and then as for the user interface it should be trendy , um and not computery , user interface : industrial designer : right , so more low tech and not too many buttons . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i took these all into consideration and also i have some limitations from the boss . project manager : industrial designer : right um , and practical limitations which i kinda threw out the window . project manager : industrial designer : and so i did a little research and unfortunately all i had to work on was our uh our corporate archives of the great products we 've made before , user interface : industrial designer : which include , you know , um space craft , coffee makers , and bullet trains or uh or a high speed train . project manager : ah is that what that is ? user interface : industrial designer : right and having personally worked with all these products uh i have a great deal of experience with uh with industrial design of these . user interface : project manager : well that 's cool . if you if you can build space craft you 'll have no problem with a remote control , yeah . industrial designer : right . so , user interface : yeah sure . industrial designer : i figured , just put 'em all together . project manager : industrial designer : you got a a caffeine powered space shuttle train transport to your tv , and um user interface : project manager : industrial designer : as for the user interface problem , you know , too many buttons . give it one button user interface : industrial designer : and and it 's a you know , for the the cowboy in all of us marketing : project manager : industrial designer : i i 'm not quite sure what the the function is there but project manager : right okay . user interface : well i like that design . industrial designer : yeah it 's a g i mean you could have a you know a project manager : is that just switches on the speech recognition and it 's entirely speech operated , is it ? industrial designer : right . so i think i i missed the budget thing , project manager : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : it was fifty million euros ? user interface : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and we got ta sell twenty five of them ? right . okay . user interface : yeah , not a problem . marketing : fifty million was uh prof project manager : ah now it 's fif fifty million euros we 've got ta uh we 've g marketing : as a profit . user interface : industrial designer : oh okay , so i i mixed those numbers . project manager : got ta make profit , so we 're making that at twelve and a half euros a time . user interface : industrial designer : okay . well i guess more realistically then , we need a product that 's got some kinda nifty outer casing , cheap plastic uh , you know , um that should be just like uh a tenth of the price maybe or less . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : an energy source which 'd probably just be uh your regular batteries project manager : okay . industrial designer : um , we do n't wan na have it project manager : would it be possible to have the rechargeable idea ? is that is that gon na mark up a lot ? user interface : or a little base station or something , . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , we could do that too . um , i had n't thought of that . yeah . user interface : that might cost more though , 'cause obviously with batteries we do n't need to provide , well we provide the first batteries , but it 's more , it 's that 's cheaper to just provide batteries . project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : right . project manager : i mean if you think about these base stations now it 's essentially just a a lead with a sort of self connecting brake in it , user interface : a battery in it , kinda . project manager : so i do n't think it 'd up up the price that much . industrial designer : right , so so user interface : okay . industrial designer : the unirs the user interface user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh the canonical user interface for these would be just a bunch of buttons , but since we 're a cutting edge company , we uh of course will have alternatives like uh speech recognition , whistling recognition and rocket power project manager : okay . industrial designer : behind our product . user interface : industrial designer : um and lastly the transmission interface is uh , just some engineering thing you do n't have to worry about . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um so here 's you know , a great schematic that my uh apprentice designer gave me . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : um as you can see the the remote control have parts and those parts look like that and um you know it 's got a little operating procedure that looks something like that . and i suppose you all know how it works because we 've all used it and we would n't be in a company designing remote controls if we did n't know what they were so uh personal preferences , i think uh programmable options which um just require a small amount of memory , uh non volatile memory , just um so the user can put in their favourite channels and maybe their preferred volume settings so that when they turn it on it 's not blasting . user interface : mm . mm that 's a good idea actually i like the programmable options . marketing : yeah , me too . industrial designer : oh okay . and the uh , the bells and whistles that we mentioned you know , they take more budgeting , um more technical uh expenditure of effort project manager : user interface : industrial designer : and it 's also much more likely to not work if if we add these bells and whistles . project manager : right . user interface : mm 'kay . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : that 's all i got . project manager : 'kay , thank you very much , um i 'll take that back . industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : ooh that 's tight . project manager : right , also so um a notice i got not very long before the meeting , so did n't manage to forward it on to you , it is let 's see , i 'll find it myself , um ta industrial designer : okay , i do n't think we need to screw it in . project manager : nah . industrial designer : just push it . marketing : yeah . project manager : we had that um to dis-include teletext um because it 's become outdated , and everybody uses the internet anyway . um , dunno what oracle would have to say with that but never mind . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um it 's only for the television , which i 'm presuming means it 's for a specific television , user interface : okay . project manager : and um instead of colours and sorta colour options , they want corporate colour and slogan somehow implemented in the new design . user interface : corporate colour . project manager : yellow . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yellow . project manager : i presume . um , everything , all their sort of uh you know the uh corporate website and everything 's yellow . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : and the logo uh the sort of slogan we put the fa fashion in electronics uh i do n't know exactly how sort of incorpor i mean , i guess if you 're going for a sort of globular shape you could kind of have it working its way round it or something . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh , where am i ? user interface : okay . project manager : okay , so , we have to decide on which functions we 're going to actually have . user interface : 'kay . project manager : uh , now , we had as listed options we had industrial designer : project manager : speech recognition potentially , flat screen interface , lcd interface um we also want to limit the number of buttons so we 'll pretty much take that one as read . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : we 'll use the the basic functions for a television . no teletext . um okay hold on . user interface : although the the danger with that is , it could look a bit cheap . project manager : not enough buttons you mean ? user interface : yeah . project manager : so sorta strike a balance between a a few and a user interface : well project manager : or it looks like we 're just cutting on the um user interface : mm . on the number of buttons , kind of functions and stuff . project manager : i do however have this from over my head , that they do n't want teletext on it . user interface : mm-hmm , okay . okay , cool . project manager : uh maybe raj you could find out what people would think about that , or maybe they 'll send marketing : about cost . project manager : some information about that , about um what people , whether people would require um teletext in a remote teletext option in a remote control . marketing : okay . project manager : okay um . so uh i take it your position arlo is that the bells and whistles we 've got ta come up with the a gimmick but not too complicated a gimmick . industrial designer : yeah yeah . project manager : um so i mean a a the sort of inkling i 'm getting from little bits of um web chatter that i 'm getting sent is that they 're quite interested in a t_f_t_ display , interactive display . however that does sound a bit like the more complicated design that rav uh sorry raj um said people did n't like . although i guess if there 's a sort of user interface : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : if you think about standard interfaces that people use already , sort of windows-style drop down menus or whatever , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : i think maybe that 's a bit , going a bit far user interface : yeah . project manager : but you know like in a basic sense that you could have your basic selection of buttons , and if you hit a sort of menu at the top you have um it goes to a different selection of buttons , so it sorta keeps it simple . user interface : yeah . okay . project manager : um glow in the dark , is that sort of with a light inside it or is it sort of glow in the dark material ? user interface : um glow in the dark material i was thinking . project manager : okay . so marketing : i user interface : um , so i i guess that would be cheaper than a light i think . marketing : uh may i say something about ? project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : uh actually i think it 's really really very important point uh as if we look at the market because people mor fifty percent people they find that the remote controls are often lost somewhere in the remote , in the room . but user interface : often lost s was that , marketing : yeah are lost project manager : lost , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and means they forget where they have kept the remote control last time . but if we add speech recognition as well as glow in the dark then both these factors will help their locating the remote control , user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : like if they come and speak something at the remote control uh replies to something something and it glows in the dark . both these factors uh both these points will help them to locate the where they have kept this remote control , project manager : that 's cool . user interface : mm-hmm , marketing : and this will definitely enhance our uh market sales , project manager : that 's cool . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so we should take it into consideration also . project manager : okay , cool . industrial designer : well hmm . project manager : um speech recognition i take it user interface : industrial designer : oh it 's project manager : i do n't , i 've i know of no products um that use speech recognition well . industrial designer : they 're act there there was a remote control that came out two years ago that had a some basic speech recognition on it . you could programme it with your channels and then you say you know like uh b_b_c_ one and it goes to that channel . project manager : really ? industrial designer : yeah , it did n't work very well though because of this noise interference problem . they mentioned you know if the television says you are listening to b_b_c_ one . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , or a yeah an advert an advert for b_b_c_ two on b_b_c_ one 'll switch the channel for you kinda thing . industrial designer : right , right , and so there was a lot of this , you 'd be watching the tv and then all of a sudden it 'd it 'd pick up a noise and turn it off or you know or turn the volume off or something , project manager : mm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but if you can work around that that noise problem user interface : 'kay . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : well what about industrial designer : user interface : this might get a bit too expensive actually , but what about um something that 's built into the tv um that you can press and it 'll send out a little signal you know like the ones that we ca n't hear or something project manager : ah , that 's a good idea . user interface : um that that will activate the remote control starts to beep . industrial designer : right . project manager : so like a kind of backwards remote from the telly . user interface : if you find if y industrial designer : right and then it would do just you know , uh subtractive kind of cancellation of the noise . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : what you could do then would be you have uh a remote controlled by the tv speaker , or not a remo i 'm sorry , a microphone by the tv speaker and a transmitter there that sends back to your remote , 'cause you ca n't um expect uh the the television manufacturers to to put that feature into their tvs . user interface : mm . yeah , that 's the only thing , yeah . industrial designer : but yeah , then you have like the little se separate module by the tv speaker project manager : that we should just stick on , yeah . industrial designer : which user interface : that comes with our remote control . industrial designer : right , and then the remote control would know um what 's being produced by the television . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : and that 's a sort of basic r_f_ kind of frequency so it 'll be cheap . industrial designer : right , right . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right , right . um . yeah that 's certainly possible then an another thing was about this losing the remote and trying to find it again . if you do have this sorta speech interface to it , you do n't even need to find it . you just say you know , um whatever you whatever you want the remote for , you know to change the channel or to uh turn the tv on and off , you just shout your command to it and it would do it for you if it 's within you know , within hearing range . and uh you know it could be somewhere in the room y that you 've no idea where it is and it would still do its job . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : that could also be built into the tv though , which might make our remote control a bit obsolete . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : well , hopefully we 're uh we 're ahead of the curve . project manager : it might do us out of a job . user interface : yeah , okay . project manager : um okay . i like the whole sort of remote feedback thing . um so i think rather than and that also kind of takes out the speech recognition in terms of the interference of it not working very well and things like that , so i th user interface : and the expense . project manager : yeah and expense and the time . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so i think if we 're going to go well i mean like the thing about the there 's the problem with the t_f_t_ or the lcd kind of thing is if you 're also wanting the the kind of uh organic globby sort of feeling to it then you might have trouble incorporating the screen . um , but i guess not i thin we 'll just we 'll just pretend that 's not a problem . um uh and how are you about the glow in the dark material ? is that user interface : maybe not even all of it 'cause we said um colours and fashion w were important so maybe um just like a little l line that 's kind of around the outside and then you can make the rest a different colour . project manager : contrast contra well . industrial designer : yeah , no th the material 's cheap but it 's just uh the the glow in the dark material needs some light to charge it you know , and then uh if you 're , if you 're sitting in the dark for too long it uh it wo n't glow any more . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so if it 's dow it 's d uh yeah . or if it 's down under the couch cushions industrial designer : right . project manager : um which is where i usually find mine . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . project manager : um okay , well we can use we can still use the glow in the dark as a gimmick essentially , user interface : yeah , project manager : um if we 're gon na have to user interface : 'cause what i thought , main project manager : if we 're gon na have the logo on as well , bright yellow logo in our our um slogan . user interface : slogan , yeah . project manager : uh then you know they 're gon na be fairly brightly coloured anyway , and we can have sort of a a a trimming as well , of the glow in the dark material , just as gimmickyness . user interface : right . mm-hmm . 'cause yeah , that w more than finding it , that was more like you know if you 're watching a film in the dark , you can um still see the remote control . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : alright , so n sorta if if if we 're gon if we 're gon na go with the idea of um uh of feedback , sort of remote finder , then that kinda stuffs that one out then . user interface : that was more of a a gimmick . project manager : do you think ? uh it makes it fairly unnecessary then . user interface : yeah , unnecessary . yeah . project manager : okay . um , okay so scratch that . uh so we 've got do we want to go with the t_f_t_ idea or the is that far too expensive ? industrial designer : um yeah we 're getting a lot of features now , i i think project manager : well i mean i think i think the sort of find the finder things i mean it 's uh i could probably write the circuit diagram for that myself . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um industrial designer : well , i think a consideration too is that these uh remotes get abused a lot , you know they get thrown around , there 's a good chance the the t_f_t_ screen would break or uh get damaged . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : they 're pretty fragile . project manager : okay . user interface : so is that one of our definite requirements that they wa that it needs a t_f_t_ screen ? project manager : um no , i mean that was going on ravs uh raj 's sort of um marketing research i guess . um uh so we 'll stick with sort of programmability um for the buttons that we do have . um . so that 's sort of included in your sub-module kind of stuff , um industrial designer : yeah mm . project manager : uh you were finding out about teletext . marketing : yeah . project manager : if you could find out that uh marketing : totally , it takes cheap speech recognition , she they wi project manager : um i think we 're gon na scratch the speech recognition as a bit of a um expensive , user interface : yeah you think so ? industrial designer : oh no it 's it 's much cheaper than the t_f_t_ , it 's just a microphone and some some integrated circuits . project manager : no ? oh right , okay . industrial designer : and it 'd it 'd be a small vocabulary speech recognition system , project manager : is it not the circuits that cost industrial designer : like a project manager : oh right , okay . uh well that kind of takes back the r_f_ the r_f_ remote sort of idea as well . user interface : okay . industrial designer : project manager : um . five minutes . okay . decisions . uh , votes , let 's vote . who wants t_f_t_ ? industrial designer : project manager : no-one does . marketing : project manager : excellent , so we 'll go with speech recognition , yeah ? industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm , that 's cool . project manager : um , speech recognition , limited buttons , organic design . and what else was i thinking of that i have n't written down and therefore fallen out my head , programmability . marketing : glow in dark . project manager : uh user interface : if it 's not too expensive s i think it 's a good gimmick . project manager : uh o okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and also , integrating the , remember to integrate the logo and the s slogan . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , so . um can you put all these reports in the project documents folder if they 're not already in there as well . so , it just helps me summarize them . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : here ? sure . industrial designer : project manager : and um i 'll put any i 'm i 'm putting anything i do in there anyway , so uh user interface : and where is it sorry ? project manager : uh pro uh project documents . industrial designer : so it should be when you save project manager : on ami scenario controller . industrial designer : on your desktop , so it goes save as , or user interface : oh . marketing : uh it is in shared documents ? industrial designer : and then uh hit that little folder up thing again . project manager : where am i ? marketing : projoct uh projector . industrial designer : again . project manager : project documents , yeah , it 's on your desktop as well . industrial designer : all the way to the top , yeah that 's up to desktop . right and then project documents . user interface : okay , cool . marketing : hmm . it is not giving anything . project manager : marketing : shared documents . project manager : and i will tr getting strings of um information , i 'll try and forward any specific to anybody in particular , as soon as i get them now , rather than i was about to sort of tell you about the changes before the meeting , and then the meeting turned up , so user interface : okay . industrial designer : mm . did you get my email ? okay . project manager : i did . industrial designer : just making sure . project manager : user interface : okay . project manager : so user interface : what i thought as well about the material is um maybe not this kind of material , but maybe more like um this kind of rubbery material , it 's a bit more bouncy , like you said they get chucked around a lot . um , a bit more durable and that can also be ergonomic project manager : okay . user interface : and it kind of feels a bit different from all the other remote controls . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : the rubber rather than project manager : more sort of um flesh-like than plasticky sort of . user interface : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . marketing : um but we have to take care like project manager : industrial designer : user interface : marketing : but we have to take care of our children also if they means if children catch hold of your or if they chew it it should n't be too harmful . so , whatever material we use it should be yeah . project manager : oh no , ethics , that 's gon na cost us money . user interface : marketing : so we have to safety point of view also , we have to take care . project manager : okay , safety . user interface : oh i think wi with the more organic shape of it it wo n't be as it wo n't as have many sharp corners as that , so that 's something good , um project manager : yeah . user interface : i dunno , i mean industrial designer : we could go comp yeah . project manager : it sme smells good for children . user interface : industrial designer : we could go completely out of the box and make the thing a big red ball foam ball . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and it 's got the thing on the inside . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : and there 's no buttons at all , it 's always on , and just yell at it , and it works . marketing : project manager : that sounds , user interface : that 's a good idea . industrial designer : and then ch children will love it . project manager : yeah it 's gon na have to be it 's gon na be have a big yellow foam ball , yeah , sorry . user interface : interesting . industrial designer : oh yellow , yellow ball . right . user interface : yeah , d with the colour , um does it have to be all yellow , do you know ? project manager : please god no . um . well , i would n't th i mean , my reaction to an all-yellow remote control would n't be anything other than horror , so i think just having it user interface : yeah . marketing : small logo with the like a small yellow strip or y yellow with the logo in it . project manager : surrounding the logo . user interface : having a little bit . okay cool . mm mm . project manager : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm , okay . project manager : and i 'll see if i can argue with boss about putting the user interface : cool . project manager : what was it ? we put we put fashion into whoops , it 's not working . ca n't believe i 've forgotten it . we put the fashion in electronics . i bet that 'll catch on well . user interface : oh yeah , that 's a good one that . yeah so . project manager : okay , any last marketing : yeah . industrial designer : twelve thirty . project manager : worries , queries ? okay . industrial designer : project manager : s s i know what you 're thinking . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : project manager : okay then , lunchtime , yay . marketing : that 's good . project manager : okay , that felt a bit more like a something with order and and reason to it than the last one . marketing : project manager : this is quite fun actually . user interface : has anybo oh . project manager : i really do n't user interface : has anybody pressed okay , it vibrates . it 's pretty cool . project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : check here . project manager : wow you 've your first page . industrial designer : yeah i 've been using up the pages . project manager : i was just writing really big . user interface : yeah , got small writing . i do n't wan na waste it . project manager : i 've finished the meeting now . industrial designer : another questionnaire . project manager : oh , everybody needs k questionnaire . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about market potentials for the new remote controls . </s> marketing : uh , yes , i have to look at the uh market potential for this product , uh , like consumer likings and everything , what is the potential for this product and are we able to achieve our a net profit or our aims or not ? then project manager : p press f_ five to start it first . marketing : sorry . okay . yeah , i can , okay . project manager : jesus . marketing : uh then uh the methodology i adopted to find out all this was market survey . a a detailed market survey on consumers was done to find out their likings and dislikings , what they prefer what they not prefer , w what problems they do encounter in all this type of things . and what we got was , we found that if you uh , what they th what problems they are having with different uh remote controls available in the market . seventy five percent of users they do find it that the remote controls available in the market are ugly . they are not so good looking . so , we have to put stress on this , uh we have to take care of this fact also like our design , uh should be appropriate , should be good looking for the consumers . and yes that 's wi uh this will definitely , this can definitely put uh uh enhance our sales . uh and even uh the good thing about this is that eighty percent of users they are willing to pay high uh pay more for this uh good looking remote controls also . so even if the available market goes for the available uh even if the market goes for the available remote control is less even then we can sell it at twenty five euros , which maybe which may seem quite high but if our looks are are if the re remote control we design have a good better uh better look uh designs , then we can hope that consumers will prefer these g remote controls . project manager : excellent . marketing : then and the second thing , some some companies they think that they should have more and more functions of the users uh or in their remote controls , but rather than those having more functions in the remote controls we should emphasise what actually consumer want , what they operate , rather than making it too complicated . because mostly it has been found that fifty percent of the users they use only ten percent of the buttons , so there is no point of having ninety percent buttons making the remote controls too bulky , too complicated too expensive a because i think i believe that technology is useful only if uh the consumers they want to use it . otherwise there is no point of having all this type of things . so this will not only reduce the cost of our remote controls but it will increase our profit also . so we have to take care of this fact also . then . uh it was function i want to go to . project manager : oh you wan na go back ? just escape . marketing : uh , escape , okay thank you . then if we look at this slide , project manager : okay . marketing : uh these are in your shared documents , you can see , project manager : okay . marketing : like uh , sorry . user interface : so , sorry i was just gon na say , what was the question for this ? or is are you coming on to that ? marketing : ah t look all the market potential , what uh how we should design consu our remote controls , what they should be there so as to en enhance our profit , enhance our sales . user interface : okay . so these percentages are are what ? marketing : yeah , these are different age group persons like uh sorry , i can open it in another way . project manager : okay . speech recognition . marketing : uh , yes . if we look at the costs whether the consumers they are willing to uh pay more for speech recognition in a remote control or not , we can find that they up to a thirty five years age group we have a very good disliking for this uh this uh point , like for speech recognition in a remote control . industrial designer : marketing : so we can emphasise on this point also like , because it will definitely enhance our sales in this ag in this particular age group from uh fifteen to thirty five , and i uh and i think that most of the users of the rem uh tv are belong to this age group . so we should look project manager : hmm . we 're als we we 're looking at who buys it as well . marketing : yeah . we can look at that that factor also , so yes . project manager : uh , which i think the twenty five to thirty five is uh usual , sort of . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm , mm . marketing : so , and and then project manager : fifteen to twe marketing : yes . i think so . uh if we look at this data how how uh h how what are the problems the consumers are facing with the existing remote controls in the market . project manager : </s>
<s> how did the research on market potentials contribute to the project ? </s> marketing : uh then uh the methodology i adopted to find out all this was market survey . a a detailed market survey on consumers was done to find out their likings and dislikings , what they prefer what they not prefer , w what problems they do encounter in all this type of things . and what we got was , we found that if you uh , what they th what problems they are having with different uh remote controls available in the market . seventy five percent of users they do find it that the remote controls available in the market are ugly . they are not so good looking . so , we have to put stress on this , uh we have to take care of this fact also like our design , uh should be appropriate , should be good looking for the consumers . and yes that 's wi uh this will definitely , this can definitely put uh uh enhance our sales . uh and even uh the good thing about this is that eighty percent of users they are willing to pay high uh pay more for this uh good looking remote controls also . so even if the available market goes for the available uh even if the market goes for the available remote control is less even then we can sell it at twenty five euros , which maybe which may seem quite high but if our looks are are if the re remote control we design have a good better uh better look uh designs , then we can hope that consumers will prefer these g remote controls . project manager : excellent . marketing : then and the second thing , some some companies they think that they should have more and more functions of the users uh or in their remote controls , but rather than those having more functions in the remote controls we should emphasise what actually consumer want , what they operate , rather than making it too complicated . because mostly it has been found that fifty percent of the users they use only ten percent of the buttons , so there is no point of having ninety percent buttons making the remote controls too bulky , too complicated too expensive a because i think i believe that technology is useful only if uh the consumers they want to use it . otherwise there is no point of having all this type of things . so this will not only reduce the cost of our remote controls but it will increase our profit also . so we have to take care of this fact also . then . uh it was function i want to go to . project manager : oh you wan na go back ? just escape . marketing : uh , escape , okay thank you . then if we look at this slide , project manager : okay . marketing : uh these are in your shared documents , you can see , project manager : okay . marketing : like uh , sorry . user interface : so , sorry i was just gon na say , what was the question for this ? or is are you coming on to that ? marketing : ah t look all the market potential , what uh how we should design consu our remote controls , what they should be there so as to en enhance our profit , enhance our sales . user interface : okay . so these percentages are are what ? marketing : yeah , these are different age group persons like uh sorry , i can open it in another way . project manager : okay . speech recognition . marketing : uh , yes . if we look at the costs whether the consumers they are willing to uh pay more for speech recognition in a remote control or not , we can find that they up to a thirty five years age group we have a very good disliking for this uh this uh point , like for speech recognition in a remote control . industrial designer : marketing : so we can emphasise on this point also like , because it will definitely enhance our sales in this ag in this particular age group from uh fifteen to thirty five , and i uh and i think that most of the users of the rem uh tv are belong to this age group . so we should look project manager : hmm . we 're als we we 're looking at who buys it as well . marketing : yeah . we can look at that that factor also , so yes . project manager : uh , which i think the twenty five to thirty five is uh usual , sort of . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm , mm . marketing : so , and and then project manager : fifteen to twe marketing : yes . i think so . uh if we look at this data how how uh h how what are the problems the consumers are facing with the existing remote controls in the market . project manager : </s>
<s> what were the advantages of reducing the buttons on remotes when discussing the market potentials for the new remotes ? </s> marketing : then and the second thing , some some companies they think that they should have more and more functions of the users uh or in their remote controls , but rather than those having more functions in the remote controls we should emphasise what actually consumer want , what they operate , rather than making it too complicated . because mostly it has been found that fifty percent of the users they use only ten percent of the buttons , so there is no point of having ninety percent buttons making the remote controls too bulky , too complicated too expensive a because i think i believe that technology is useful only if uh the consumers they want to use it . otherwise there is no point of having all this type of things . so this will not only reduce the cost of our remote controls but it will increase our profit also . so we have to take care of this fact also . then . uh it was function i want to go to . project manager : oh you wan na go back ? just escape . marketing : uh , escape , okay thank you . then if we look at this slide , project manager : okay . marketing : uh these are in your shared documents , you can see , project manager : okay . marketing : like uh , sorry . they find that thirt uh thirty five percent uh thirty four percent of the consumers they find too difficult to operate a remote control . so it should be in such a way that it should be easy to learn how to operate these remote controls and we should provide pl uh spe uh proper manuals for its use also so as that people consumers could easily learn . they need not to have any , much technical knowledge to see uh to know how to operate these remote controls . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so this is also a very goo uh major factor to loo uh take into consideration to enhance our profits and sales . so um this is all about project manager : okay . marketing : uh market potential by me . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the functions that the new remote controls would have . </s> project manager : we had that um to dis-include teletext um because it 's become outdated , and everybody uses the internet anyway . um , dunno what oracle would have to say with that but never mind . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um it 's only for the television , which i 'm presuming means it 's for a specific television , user interface : okay . project manager : and um instead of colours and sorta colour options , they want corporate colour and slogan somehow implemented in the new design . user interface : corporate colour . project manager : yellow . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yellow . project manager : i presume . um , everything , all their sort of uh you know the uh corporate website and everything 's yellow . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : and the logo uh the sort of slogan we put the fa fashion in electronics uh i do n't know exactly how sort of incorpor i mean , i guess if you 're going for a sort of globular shape you could kind of have it working its way round it or something . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh , where am i ? user interface : okay . project manager : speech recognition potentially , flat screen interface , lcd interface um we also want to limit the number of buttons so we 'll pretty much take that one as read . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : we 'll use the the basic functions for a television . no teletext . um okay hold on . user interface : although the the danger with that is , it could look a bit cheap . project manager : not enough buttons you mean ? user interface : yeah . project manager : so sorta strike a balance between a a few and a user interface : well project manager : or it looks like we 're just cutting on the um user interface : mm . on the number of buttons , kind of functions and stuff . project manager : i do however have this from over my head , that they do n't want teletext on it . user interface : mm-hmm , okay . okay , cool . project manager : uh maybe raj you could find out what people would think about that , or maybe they 'll send marketing : about cost . project manager : some information about that , about um what people , whether people would require um teletext in a remote teletext option in a remote control . marketing : okay . project manager : okay um . so uh i take it your position arlo is that the bells and whistles we 've got ta come up with the a gimmick but not too complicated a gimmick . industrial designer : yeah yeah . project manager : um so i mean a a the sort of inkling i 'm getting from little bits of um web chatter that i 'm getting sent is that they 're quite interested in a t_f_t_ display , interactive display . however that does sound a bit like the more complicated design that rav uh sorry raj um said people did n't like . although i guess if there 's a sort of user interface : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : if you think about standard interfaces that people use already , sort of windows-style drop down menus or whatever , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : i think maybe that 's a bit , going a bit far user interface : yeah . project manager : but you know like in a basic sense that you could have your basic selection of buttons , and if you hit a sort of menu at the top you have um it goes to a different selection of buttons , so it sorta keeps it simple . user interface : yeah . okay . project manager : um glow in the dark , is that sort of with a light inside it or is it sort of glow in the dark material ? user interface : um glow in the dark material i was thinking . project manager : okay . so marketing : i user interface : um , so i i guess that would be cheaper than a light i think . marketing : uh may i say something about ? project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : uh actually i think it 's really really very important point uh as if we look at the market because people mor fifty percent people they find that the remote controls are often lost somewhere in the remote , in the room . but user interface : often lost s was that , marketing : yeah are lost project manager : lost , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and means they forget where they have kept the remote control last time . but if we add speech recognition as well as glow in the dark then both these factors will help their locating the remote control , user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : like if they come and speak something at the remote control uh replies to something something and it glows in the dark . both these factors uh both these points will help them to locate the where they have kept this remote control , project manager : that 's cool . user interface : mm-hmm , marketing : and this will definitely enhance our uh market sales , project manager : that 's cool . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so we should take it into consideration also . project manager : okay , cool . industrial designer : well hmm . project manager : um speech recognition i take it user interface : industrial designer : oh it 's project manager : i do n't , i 've i know of no products um that use speech recognition well . industrial designer : they 're act there there was a remote control that came out two years ago that had a some basic speech recognition on it . you could programme it with your channels and then you say you know like uh b_b_c_ one and it goes to that channel . project manager : really ? industrial designer : yeah , it did n't work very well though because of this noise interference problem . they mentioned you know if the television says you are listening to b_b_c_ one . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , or a yeah an advert an advert for b_b_c_ two on b_b_c_ one 'll switch the channel for you kinda thing . industrial designer : right , right , and so there was a lot of this , you 'd be watching the tv and then all of a sudden it 'd it 'd pick up a noise and turn it off or you know or turn the volume off or something , project manager : mm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but if you can work around that that noise problem user interface : 'kay . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : well what about industrial designer : user interface : this might get a bit too expensive actually , but what about um something that 's built into the tv um that you can press and it 'll send out a little signal you know like the ones that we ca n't hear or something project manager : ah , that 's a good idea . user interface : um that that will activate the remote control starts to beep . industrial designer : right . project manager : so like a kind of backwards remote from the telly . user interface : if you find if y industrial designer : right and then it would do just you know , uh subtractive kind of cancellation of the noise . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : what you could do then would be you have uh a remote controlled by the tv speaker , or not a remo i 'm sorry , a microphone by the tv speaker and a transmitter there that sends back to your remote , 'cause you ca n't um expect uh the the television manufacturers to to put that feature into their tvs . user interface : mm . yeah , that 's the only thing , yeah . industrial designer : but yeah , then you have like the little se separate module by the tv speaker project manager : that we should just stick on , yeah . industrial designer : which user interface : that comes with our remote control . industrial designer : right , and then the remote control would know um what 's being produced by the television . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : and that 's a sort of basic r_f_ kind of frequency so it 'll be cheap . industrial designer : right , right . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right , right . um . yeah that 's certainly possible then an another thing was about this losing the remote and trying to find it again . if you do have this sorta speech interface to it , you do n't even need to find it . you just say you know , um whatever you whatever you want the remote for , you know to change the channel or to uh turn the tv on and off , you just shout your command to it and it would do it for you if it 's within you know , within hearing range . and uh you know it could be somewhere in the room y that you 've no idea where it is and it would still do its job . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : that could also be built into the tv though , which might make our remote control a bit obsolete . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : well , hopefully we 're uh we 're ahead of the curve . project manager : it might do us out of a job . user interface : yeah , okay . project manager : um okay . i like the whole sort of remote feedback thing . um so i think rather than and that also kind of takes out the speech recognition in terms of the interference of it not working very well and things like that , so i th user interface : and the expense . project manager : yeah and expense and the time . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so i think if we 're going to go well i mean like the thing about the there 's the problem with the t_f_t_ or the lcd kind of thing is if you 're also wanting the the kind of uh organic globby sort of feeling to it then you might have trouble incorporating the screen . um , but i guess not i thin we 'll just we 'll just pretend that 's not a problem . um uh and how are you about the glow in the dark material ? is that user interface : maybe not even all of it 'cause we said um colours and fashion w were important so maybe um just like a little l line that 's kind of around the outside and then you can make the rest a different colour . project manager : contrast contra well . industrial designer : yeah , no th the material 's cheap but it 's just uh the the glow in the dark material needs some light to charge it you know , and then uh if you 're , if you 're sitting in the dark for too long it uh it wo n't glow any more . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so if it 's dow it 's d uh yeah . or if it 's down under the couch cushions industrial designer : right . project manager : um which is where i usually find mine . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . project manager : um okay , well we can use we can still use the glow in the dark as a gimmick essentially , user interface : yeah , project manager : um if we 're gon na have to user interface : 'cause what i thought , main project manager : if we 're gon na have the logo on as well , bright yellow logo in our our um slogan . user interface : slogan , yeah . project manager : uh then you know they 're gon na be fairly brightly coloured anyway , and we can have sort of a a a trimming as well , of the glow in the dark material , just as gimmickyness . user interface : right . mm-hmm . 'cause yeah , that w more than finding it , that was more like you know if you 're watching a film in the dark , you can um still see the remote control . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : alright , so n sorta if if if we 're gon if we 're gon na go with the idea of um uh of feedback , sort of remote finder , then that kinda stuffs that one out then . user interface : that was more of a a gimmick . project manager : do you think ? uh it makes it fairly unnecessary then . user interface : yeah , unnecessary . yeah . project manager : okay . um , okay so scratch that . uh so we 've got do we want to go with the t_f_t_ idea or the is that far too expensive ? industrial designer : um yeah we 're getting a lot of features now , i i think project manager : well i mean i think i think the sort of find the finder things i mean it 's uh i could probably write the circuit diagram for that myself . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um industrial designer : well , i think a consideration too is that these uh remotes get abused a lot , you know they get thrown around , there 's a good chance the the t_f_t_ screen would break or uh get damaged . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : they 're pretty fragile . project manager : okay . user interface : so is that one of our definite requirements that they wa that it needs a t_f_t_ screen ? project manager : um no , i mean that was going on ravs uh raj 's sort of um marketing research i guess . um uh so we 'll stick with sort of programmability um for the buttons that we do have . um . so that 's sort of included in your sub-module kind of stuff , um industrial designer : yeah mm . project manager : uh you were finding out about teletext . marketing : yeah . project manager : if you could find out that uh marketing : totally , it takes cheap speech recognition , she they wi project manager : um i think we 're gon na scratch the speech recognition as a bit of a um expensive , user interface : yeah you think so ? industrial designer : oh no it 's it 's much cheaper than the t_f_t_ , it 's just a microphone and some some integrated circuits . project manager : no ? oh right , okay . industrial designer : and it 'd it 'd be a small vocabulary speech recognition system , project manager : is it not the circuits that cost industrial designer : like a project manager : oh right , okay . uh well that kind of takes back the r_f_ the r_f_ remote sort of idea as well . user interface : okay . industrial designer : project manager : um . five minutes . okay . decisions . uh , votes , let 's vote . who wants t_f_t_ ? industrial designer : project manager : no-one does . marketing : project manager : excellent , so we 'll go with speech recognition , yeah ? industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm , that 's cool . project manager : um , speech recognition , limited buttons , organic design . and what else was i thinking of that i have n't written down and therefore fallen out my head , programmability . marketing : glow in dark . project manager : uh user interface : if it 's not too expensive s i think it 's a good gimmick . project manager : uh o okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and also , integrating the , remember to integrate the logo and the s slogan . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , so . um can you put all these reports in the project documents folder if they 're not already in there as well . so , it just helps me summarize them . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : here ? sure . industrial designer : project manager : and um i 'll put any i 'm i 'm putting anything i do in there anyway , so uh user interface : and where is it sorry ? project manager : uh pro uh project documents . industrial designer : so it should be when you save project manager : on ami scenario controller . industrial designer : on your desktop , so it goes save as , or user interface : oh . marketing : uh it is in shared documents ? industrial designer : and then uh hit that little folder up thing again . project manager : where am i ? marketing : projoct uh projector . industrial designer : again . project manager : project documents , yeah , it 's on your desktop as well . industrial designer : all the way to the top , yeah that 's up to desktop . right and then project documents . user interface : okay , cool . marketing : hmm . it is not giving anything . project manager : marketing : shared documents . project manager : and i will tr getting strings of um information , i 'll try and forward any specific to anybody in particular , as soon as i get them now , rather than i was about to sort of tell you about the changes before the meeting , and then the meeting turned up , so user interface : okay . industrial designer : mm . did you get my email ? okay . project manager : i did . industrial designer : just making sure . project manager : user interface : okay . project manager : so user interface : what i thought as well about the material is um maybe not this kind of material , but maybe more like um this kind of rubbery material , it 's a bit more bouncy , like you said they get chucked around a lot . um , a bit more durable and that can also be ergonomic project manager : okay . user interface : and it kind of feels a bit different from all the other remote controls . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : the rubber rather than project manager : more sort of um flesh-like than plasticky sort of . user interface : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . marketing : um but we have to take care like project manager : industrial designer : user interface : marketing : but we have to take care of our children also if they means if children catch hold of your or if they chew it it should n't be too harmful . so , whatever material we use it should be yeah . project manager : oh no , ethics , that 's gon na cost us money . user interface : marketing : so we have to safety point of view also , we have to take care . project manager : okay , safety . user interface : oh i think wi with the more organic shape of it it wo n't be as it wo n't as have many sharp corners as that , so that 's something good , um project manager : yeah . user interface : i dunno , i mean industrial designer : we could go comp yeah . project manager : it sme smells good for children . user interface : industrial designer : we could go completely out of the box and make the thing a big red ball foam ball . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and it 's got the thing on the inside . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : and there 's no buttons at all , it 's always on , and just yell at it , and it works . marketing : project manager : that sounds , user interface : that 's a good idea . industrial designer : and then ch children will love it . project manager : yeah it 's gon na have to be it 's gon na be have a big yellow foam ball , yeah , sorry . user interface : interesting . industrial designer : oh yellow , yellow ball . right . user interface : yeah , d with the colour , um does it have to be all yellow , do you know ? project manager : please god no . um . well , i would n't th i mean , my reaction to an all-yellow remote control would n't be anything other than horror , so i think just having it user interface : yeah . marketing : small logo with the like a small yellow strip or y yellow with the logo in it . project manager : surrounding the logo . user interface : having a little bit . okay cool . mm mm . project manager : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm , okay . project manager : and i 'll see if i can argue with boss about putting the user interface : cool . project manager : what was it ? we put we put fashion into whoops , it 's not working . ca n't believe i 've forgotten it . we put the fashion in electronics . i bet that 'll catch on well . user interface : oh yeah , that 's a good one that . yeah so . project manager : okay , any last marketing : yeah . industrial designer : twelve thirty . project manager : worries , queries ? okay . industrial designer : project manager : s s i know what you 're thinking . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : project manager : okay then , lunchtime , yay . marketing : that 's good . </s>
<s> what 's the conclusion of the discussion about the function of `` glow in dark '' ? </s> project manager : um glow in the dark , is that sort of with a light inside it or is it sort of glow in the dark material ? user interface : um glow in the dark material i was thinking . project manager : okay . so marketing : i user interface : um , so i i guess that would be cheaper than a light i think . marketing : uh may i say something about ? project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : uh actually i think it 's really really very important point uh as if we look at the market because people mor fifty percent people they find that the remote controls are often lost somewhere in the remote , in the room . but user interface : often lost s was that , marketing : yeah are lost project manager : lost , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and means they forget where they have kept the remote control last time . but if we add speech recognition as well as glow in the dark then both these factors will help their locating the remote control , user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : like if they come and speak something at the remote control uh replies to something something and it glows in the dark . both these factors uh both these points will help them to locate the where they have kept this remote control , project manager : that 's cool . user interface : mm-hmm , marketing : and this will definitely enhance our uh market sales , project manager : that 's cool . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so we should take it into consideration also . project manager : okay , cool . </s>
<s> what were the difficulties in applying speech recognition in the new remote controls ? </s> project manager : um speech recognition i take it user interface : industrial designer : oh it 's project manager : i do n't , i 've i know of no products um that use speech recognition well . industrial designer : they 're act there there was a remote control that came out two years ago that had a some basic speech recognition on it . you could programme it with your channels and then you say you know like uh b_b_c_ one and it goes to that channel . project manager : really ? industrial designer : yeah , it did n't work very well though because of this noise interference problem . they mentioned you know if the television says you are listening to b_b_c_ one . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , or a yeah an advert an advert for b_b_c_ two on b_b_c_ one 'll switch the channel for you kinda thing . industrial designer : right , right , and so there was a lot of this , you 'd be watching the tv and then all of a sudden it 'd it 'd pick up a noise and turn it off or you know or turn the volume off or something , project manager : mm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but if you can work around that that noise problem user interface : 'kay . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : well what about industrial designer : user interface : this might get a bit too expensive actually , but what about um something that 's built into the tv um that you can press and it 'll send out a little signal you know like the ones that we ca n't hear or something project manager : ah , that 's a good idea . user interface : um that that will activate the remote control starts to beep . industrial designer : right . project manager : so like a kind of backwards remote from the telly . user interface : if you find if y industrial designer : right and then it would do just you know , uh subtractive kind of cancellation of the noise . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : what you could do then would be you have uh a remote controlled by the tv speaker , or not a remo i 'm sorry , a microphone by the tv speaker and a transmitter there that sends back to your remote , 'cause you ca n't um expect uh the the television manufacturers to to put that feature into their tvs . user interface : mm . yeah , that 's the only thing , yeah . industrial designer : but yeah , then you have like the little se separate module by the tv speaker project manager : that we should just stick on , yeah . industrial designer : which user interface : that comes with our remote control . industrial designer : right , and then the remote control would know um what 's being produced by the television . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : and that 's a sort of basic r_f_ kind of frequency so it 'll be cheap . industrial designer : right , right . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right , right . um . yeah that 's certainly possible then an another thing was about this losing the remote and trying to find it again . if you do have this sorta speech interface to it , you do n't even need to find it . you just say you know , um whatever you whatever you want the remote for , you know to change the channel or to uh turn the tv on and off , you just shout your command to it and it would do it for you if it 's within you know , within hearing range . and uh you know it could be somewhere in the room y that you 've no idea where it is and it would still do its job . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : that could also be built into the tv though , which might make our remote control a bit obsolete . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : well , hopefully we 're uh we 're ahead of the curve . project manager : it might do us out of a job . user interface : yeah , okay . project manager : um okay . i like the whole sort of remote feedback thing . um so i think rather than and that also kind of takes out the speech recognition in terms of the interference of it not working very well and things like that , so i th user interface : and the expense . project manager : yeah and expense and the time . </s>
<s> what was discussed in the meeting ? </s> grad a : ok . we seem to be recording . professor g : alright ! grad a : so , sorry about not professor g : we 're not crashing . phd d : number four . grad a : not pre - doing everything . the lunch went a little later than i was expecting , chuck . phd b : chuck was telling too many jokes , or something ? grad a : yep . pretty much . phd e : yeah . professor g : ok . does anybody have an agenda ? postdoc f : well , i 'm i sent a couple of items . they 're they 're sort of practical . professor g : i thought somebody had . postdoc f : i do n't know if you 're professor g : yeah , that 's right . postdoc f : if if that 's too practical for what we 're focused on . grad a : i mean , we do n't want anything too practical . professor g : yeah , we only want th useless things . grad a : yeah , that would be professor g : yeah . no , why do n't we talk about practical things ? sure . postdoc f : well , um , i can give you an update on the transcription effort . professor g : great . postdoc f : uh , maybe raise the issue of microphone , uh , um procedures with reference to the cleanliness of the recordings . professor g : ok , transcription , uh , microphone issues postdoc f : and then maybe ask , th uh , these guys . the we have great great , uh , p steps forward in terms of the nonspeech - speech pre - segmenting of the signal . grad a : well , we have steps forward . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : well , it 's a it 's a big improvement . phd c : i would prefer this . professor g : yes . yeah , well . ok . uh phd d : we talk about the the results of professor g : you have some yeah . grad a : i have a little bit of iram stuff phd d : use grad a : but i 'm not sure if that 's of general interest or not . professor g : uh , bigram ? grad a : iram . phd d : iram . professor g : iram . grad a : iram , bigram , professor g : well , m maybe . phd d : bi - bigram . grad a : you know . professor g : yeah , let 's let 's see where we are at three - thirty . um phd b : since , uh since i have to leave as usual at three - thirty , can we do the interesting stuff first ? postdoc f : i beg your pardon ? professor g : well phd c : which is ? grad a : what 's the interesting stuff ? postdoc f : i beg your pardon ? phd d : yeah . professor g : yeah . th - now you get to tell us what 's the interesting part . phd e : please specify . professor g : but phd b : well , uh , i guess the work that 's been done on segmentation would be most phd c : yeah . postdoc f : i think that would be a good thing to start with . phd b : yeah . professor g : ok . um , and , um , the other thing , uh , which i 'll just say very briefly that maybe relates to that a little bit , which is that , um , uh , one of the suggestions that came up in a brief meeting i had the other day when i was in spain with , uh , manolo pardo and javier , uh , ferreiros , who was here before , was , um , why not start with what they had before but add in the non - silence boundaries . so , in what javier did before when they were doing , um h he was looking for , uh , speaker change points . phd d : mm - hmm . professor g : um . as a simplification , he originally did this only using silence as , uh , a putative , uh , speaker change point . phd c : yeah . professor g : and , uh , he did not , say , look at points where you were changing broad sp uh , phonetic class , for instance . and for broadcast news , that was fine . here obviously it 's not . phd d : yeah . professor g : and , um , so one of the things that they were pushing in d in discussing with me is , um , w why are you spending so much time , uh , on the , uh , feature issue , uh , when perhaps if you sort of deal with what you were using before phd d : uh - huh . professor g : and then just broadened it a bit , instead of just ta using silence as putative change point also ? phd d : nnn , yeah . professor g : so then you 've got you already have the super - structure with gaussians and h - you know , simple h m ms and so forth . and you you might so there was a there was a little bit of a a a a difference of opinion because i i thought that it was it 's interesting to look at what features are useful . phd d : yeah . professor g : but , uh , on the other hand i saw that the they had a good point that , uh , if we had something that worked for many cases before , maybe starting from there a little bit because ultimately we 're gon na end up with some s su kind of structure like that , phd d : yeah . professor g : where you have some kind of simple hmm and you 're testing the hypothesis that , uh , there is a change . phd d : yeah . professor g : so so anyway , i just reporting that . but , uh , uh so . yeah , why do n't we do the speech - nonspeech discussion ? postdoc f : yeah . do i i hear you you did n't phd c : speech - nonspeech ? ok . postdoc f : uh - huh . yeah . phd c : um , so , uh , what we basically did so far was using the mixed file to to detect s speech or nonspeech portions in that . professor g : mm - hmm . phd c : and what i did so far is i just used our old munich system , which is an hmm - ba based system with gaussian mixtures for s speech and nonspeech . and it was a system which used only one gaussian for silence and one gaussian for speech . and now i added , uh , multi - mixture possibility for for speech and nonspeech . professor g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd c : and i did some training on on one dialogue , which was transcribed by yeah . we we did a nons s speech - nonspeech transcription . phd d : jose . phd c : adam , dave , and i , we did , for that dialogue and i trained it on that . and i did some pre - segmentations for for jane . and i 'm not sure how good they are or what what the transcribers say . they they can use it or ? postdoc f : uh , they they think it 's a terrific improvement . and , um , it real it just makes a a world of difference . and , um , y you also did some something in addition which was , um , for those in which there was , uh , quiet speakers in the mix . phd c : yeah . uh , yeah . that that was one one one thing , uh , why i added more mixtures for for the speech . so i saw that there were loud loudly speaking speakers and quietly speaking speakers . professor g : mm - hmm . phd c : and so i did two mixtures , one for the loud speakers and one for the quiet speakers . grad a : and did you hand - label who was loud and who was quiet , or did you just ? phd c : i did that for for five minutes of one dialogue grad a : right . phd c : and that was enough to to train the system . phd b : w what ? phd d : yeah . phd c : and so it it adapts , uh , on while running . so . phd b : what kind of , uh , front - end processing did you do ? phd c : hopefully . it 's just our our old munich , uh , loudness - based spectrum on mel scale twenty twenty critical bands and then loudness . phd b : mm - hmm . phd c : and four additional features , which is energy , loudness , modified loudness , and zero crossing rate . so it 's twenty - four twenty - four features . professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and you also provided me with several different versions , phd c : yeah . postdoc f : which i compared . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : and so you change parameters . what do you wan na say something about the parameters that you change ? phd c : yeah . you can specify the minimum length of speech or and silence portions which you want . and so i did some some modifications in those parameters , basically changing the minimum minimum length for s for silence to have , er to have , um yeah to have more or less , uh , silence portions in inserted . so . grad a : right . so this would work well for , uh , pauses and utterance boundaries and things like that . phd d : yeah . phd c : yeah . yeah . grad a : but for overlap i imagine that does n't work at all , phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . grad a : that you 'll have plenty of s sections that are phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd c : that 's it . yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm , mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . grad a : but postdoc f : that 's true . but it it saves so much time the the transcribers professor g : um postdoc f : just enormous , enormous savings . fantastic . professor g : that 's great . um , just qu one quickly , uh , still on the features . so you have these twenty - four features . phd c : yeah . professor g : uh , a lot of them are spectral features . is there a a transformation , uh , like principal components transformation or something ? grad a : yeah . it was is two . phd c : no . w w we originally we did that professor g : just phd c : but we saw , uh , when we used it , uh , f for our close - talking microphone , which yeah , for our for our recognizer in munich we saw that w it 's it 's not it 's not so necessary . it it works as well f with with without , uh , a lda or something . professor g : ok . ok . no , i was j curious . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah , i do n't think it 's a big deal for this application , phd c : yeah . phd d : right . professor g : but but yeah , it 's a postdoc f : mm - hmm . ok . but then there 's another thing that also thilo 's involved with , which is , um ok , and and also da - dave gelbart . so there 's this this problem of and w and so we had this meeting . th - the also adam , before the the before you went away . uh we , um regarding the representation of overlaps , because at present , um , because of the limitations of th the interface we 're using , overlaps are , uh , not being encoded by the transcribers in as complete and , uh , detailed a way as it might be , and as might be desired i think would be desired in the corpus ultimately . professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : so we do n't have start and end points at each point where there 's an overlap . we just have the the overlaps encoded in a simple bin . well , ok . so @ @ the limits of the over of of the interface are such that we were at this meeting we were entertaining how we might either expand the the interface or find other tools which already do what would be useful . because what would ultimately be , um , ideal in my my view and i think i mean , i had the sense that it was consensus , is that , um , a thorough - going musical score notation would be the best way to go . because you can have multiple channels , there 's a single time - line , it 's very clear , flexible , and all those nice things . professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : ok . so , um , um , i spoke i had a meeting with dave gelbart on on and he had , uh , excellent ideas on how the interface could be modified to to do this kind of representation . but , um , he in the meantime you were checking into the existence of already , um , existing interfaces which might already have these properties . so , do you wan na say something about that ? phd c : yes . um , i talked with , uh , munich guys from from ludwi - ludwig maximilians university , who do a lot of transcribing and transliterations . professor g : mm - hmm . phd c : and they basically said they have they have , uh , a tool they developed themselves and they ca n't give away , uh , f it 's too error - prone , and had it 's not supported , a a a and professor g : yeah . phd c : but , um , susanne bur - burger , who is at se cmu , he wa who was formally at in munich and w and is now at with cmu , she said she has something which she uses to do eight channels , uh , trans transliterations , eight channels simultaneously , professor g : excuse me . phd c : but it 's running under windows . postdoc f : under windows . phd c : so i 'm not sure if if if we can use it . postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd c : she said she would give it to us . postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd c : it would n't be a problem . and i 've got some some kind of manual down in my office . grad a : well , maybe we should get it and if it 's good enough we 'll arrange windows machines to be available . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . we could uh , potentially so . i also wanted to be sure i mean , i 've i 've seen the this this is called praat , praat , which i guess means spee speech in dutch or something . phd c : yeah , but then i 'm not sure that 's the right thing for us . postdoc f : but in terms of it being windows versus professor g : yeah . grad a : no , no . praat is n't praat 's multi - platform . postdoc f : but i 'm just wondering , is ? phd c : no . no , praat yeah . yeah . postdoc f : oh ! i see . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : oh , i see . so praat may not be phd c : that 's not praat . it 's called `` trans transedit `` i think . postdoc f : it 's a different one . phd c : the the , uh the tool from from susanne . postdoc f : i see . oh , i see . ok . ok . alright . professor g : the other thing , uh , to keep in mind , uh i mean , we 've been very concerned to get all this rolling so that we would actually have data , postdoc f : mmm , yeah . professor g : but , um , i think our outside sponsor is actually gon na kick in postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : and ultimately that path will be smoothed out . so i do n't know if we have a long - term need to do lots and lots of transcribing . i think we had a very quick need to get something out and we 'd like to be able to do some later because just it 's inter it 's interesting . but as far a you know , uh , with with any luck we 'll be able to wind down the larger project . phd b : but you s grad a : what our decision was is that we 'll go ahead with what we have with a not very fine time scale on the overlaps . phd c : yeah . professor g : right . yeah . grad a : and and do what we can later to clean that up if we need to . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : right . postdoc f : and and i was just thinking that , um , if it were possible to bring that in , like , you know , this week , then when they 're encoding the overlaps it would be nice for them to be able to specify when you know , the start points and end points of overlaps . professor g : uh - huh . postdoc f : uh th - they 're making really quick progress . professor g : yeah . that 's great . postdoc f : and , um , so my my goal was w m my charge was to get eleven hours by the end of the month . and it 'll be i 'm i 'm i 'm clear that we 'll be able to do that . professor g : that 's great . grad a : and did you , uh , forward morgan brian 's thing ? professor g : yeah . postdoc f : i sent it to , um who did i send that to ? i sent it to a list and i thought i sent it to the e to the local list . phd e : meeting recorder . grad a : oh , you did ? ok . so you probably did get that . postdoc f : you saw that ? so brian did tell me that in fact what you said , that , uh that our that they are making progress and that he 's going that they 're going he 's gon na check the f the output of the first transcription and and professor g : i mean , basically it 's it 's all the difference in the world . i mean , basically he 's he 's on it now . grad a : yeah . postdoc f : oh , that 's this is a new development . professor g : so so so this is so i it 'll happen . postdoc f : ok . super . super . ok . great . professor g : yeah . i mean , basically it 's just saying that one of our one of our best people is on it , postdoc f : yeah . professor g : you know , who just does n't happen to be here anymore . someone else pays him . so phd b : but about the need for transcription , postdoc f : is n't that great ? phd b : i mean , do n't we did n't we previously decide that the ibm transcripts would have to be checked anyway and possibly augmented ? professor g : so . yeah . postdoc f : yes . that 's true . phd b : so , i think having a good tool is worth something no matter what . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah . s ok . that 's that 's a good point . grad a : yeah , and dave gelbart did volunteer , postdoc f : good . grad a : and since he 's not here , i 'll repeat it to at least modify transcriber , which , if we do n't have something else that works , i think that 's a pretty good way of going . postdoc f : mm - hmm . grad a : and we discussed on some methods to do it . my approach originally , and i 've already hacked on it a little bit it was too slow because i was trying to display all the waveforms . but he pointed out that you do n't really have to . i think that 's a good point . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : mm - hmm . grad a : that if you just display the mix waveform and then have a user interface for editing the different channels , that 's perfectly sufficient . postdoc f : yeah , exactly . and just keep those things separate . and and , um , dan ellis 's hack already allows them to be able to display different waveforms to clarify overlaps and things , grad a : no . they can only display one , postdoc f : so that 's already grad a : but they can listen to different ones . postdoc f : oh , yes , but well , uh , yes , but what i mean is that , uh , from the transcriber 's perspective , uh , those two functions are separate . and dan ellis 's hack handles the , um , choice the ability to choose different waveforms from moment to moment . grad a : but only to listen to , not to look at . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : um grad a : the waveform you 're looking at does n't change . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : that 's true . grad a : yeah . postdoc f : yeah , but that 's that 's ok , cuz they 're they 're , you know , they 're focused on the ear anyway . grad a : right . postdoc f : and then and then the hack to preserve the overlaps better would be one which creates different output files for each channel , grad a : right . postdoc f : which then would also serve liz 's request of having , you know , a single channel , separable , uh , cleanly , easily separable , professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : uh , transcript tied to a single channel , uh , audio . professor g : mm - hmm . have , uh , folks from nist been in contact with you ? postdoc f : not directly . i 'm trying to think if if i could have gotten it over a list . i do n't i do n't think so . professor g : ok . well , holidays may have interrupted things , cuz in in in they seem to want to get absolutely clear on standards for transcription standards and so forth with with us . postdoc f : oh ! this was from before december . yeah . professor g : right . because they 're they 're presumably going to start recording next month . postdoc f : ok . ok . grad a : oh , we should definitely get with them then , and agree upon a format . though i do n't remember email on that . so was i not in the loop on that ? professor g : um . yeah , i do n't think i mailed anybody . i just think i told them to contact jane that , uh , if they had a grad a : oh , ok . postdoc f : that 's right . professor g : if , uh that that , uh , as the point person on it . grad a : yeah , i think that 's right . professor g : but grad a : just , uh professor g : so , yeah . maybe i 'll , uh , ping them a little bit about it to get that straight . postdoc f : ok . i 'm keeping the conventions absolutely as simple as possible . professor g : yeah . so is it cuz with any luck there 'll actually be a a there 'll be collections at columbia , collections at at uw i mean dan dan is very interested in doing some other things , grad a : right . postdoc f : yeah . yeah . grad a : well , i think it 's important both for the notation and the machine representation to be the same . professor g : and collections at nist . so yeah . postdoc f : n there was also this , uh , email from dan regarding the speech - non nonspeech segmentation thing . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : i do n't know if , uh , uh , we wan na , uh and dan gel - and dave gelbart is interested in pursuing the aspect of using amplitude as a a a as a basis for the separation . grad a : cross - correlation . professor g : oh , yeah . he was talking he was talking i mean , uh , we he had yeah , cross - correlation . i had mentioned this a couple times before , the c the commercial devices that do , uh , uh , voice , uh you know , active miking , postdoc f : uh - huh . professor g : basically look at the amp at the energy at each of the mikes . and and you basically compare the energy here to some function of all of the mikes . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor g : so , by doing that , you know , rather than setting any , uh , absolute threshold , you actually can do pretty good , uh , selection of who who 's talking . uh and those those systems work very well , by the way , i mean , so people use them in panel discussions and so forth with sound reinforcement differing in in sort of , phd d : uh - huh . professor g : uh and , uh , those if boy , the guy i knew who built them , built them like twenty twenty years ago , so they 're it 's the the techniques work pretty well . postdoc f : fantastic . cuz there is one thing that we do n't have right now and that is the automatic , um , channel identifier . that that , you know , that would g help in terms of encoding of overlaps . professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : the the transcribers would have less , uh , disentangling to do if that were available . professor g : yeah . so i think , you know , basically you can look at some p you have to play around a little bit , uh , to figure out what the right statistic is , phd d : mm - hmm . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : but you compare each microphone to some statistic based on the on the overall phd c : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . professor g : uh , and we also have these we have the advantage of having distant mikes too . so that , you cou yo grad a : yeah , although the the using the close - talking i think would be much better . would n't it ? postdoc f : yeah . professor g : um . i i do n't know . grad a : yeah . professor g : i just it 'd be if i was actually working on it , i 'd sit there and and play around with it , and and get a feeling for it . i mean , the the the , uh but , uh , you certainly wan na use the close - talking , as a at least . grad a : right . professor g : i do n't know if the other would would add some other helpful dimension or not . postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd d : mm - hmm . ok . what what are the different , uh , classes to to code , uh , the the overlap , you will use ? postdoc f : um , to code d phd d : what you you postdoc f : so types of overlap ? phd d : yeah . postdoc f : um , so at a meeting that was n't transcribed , we worked up a a typology . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : and , um phd d : look like , uh , you t you explaining in the blackboard ? the ? yeah ? yeah . postdoc f : yes , exactly . that has n't changed . so it i the it 's basically a two - tiered structure where the first one is whether the person who 's interrupted continues or not . and then below that there 're subcategories , uh , that have more to do with , you know , is it , uh , simply backchannel phd d : mm - hmm . postdoc f : or is it , um , someone completing someone else 's thought , or is it someone in introducing a new thought . grad a : right . and i hope that if we do a forced alignment with the close - talking mike , that will be enough to recover at least some of the time the time information of when the overlap occurred . phd d : huh . yeah . yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . well , one would phd d : we hope . grad a : yeah . who knows ? postdoc f : that 'd be that 'd be nice . i mean , i i i i 've phd b : so who 's gon na do that ? who 's gon na do forced alignment ? grad a : well , u uh , ibm was going to . um phd b : oh , ok . grad a : and i imagine they still plan to but but , you know , i have n't spoken with them about that recently . phd d : uh - huh . professor g : well , uh , my suggestion now is is on all of these things to , uh , contact brian . grad a : ok . i 'll do that . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : this is wonderful to have a direct contact like that . professor g : yeah . postdoc f : uh well , th lem me ask you this . professor g : yeah . postdoc f : it occurs to me one of my transcribers t told me today that she 'll be finished with one meeting , um , by professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : well , she said tomorrow but then she said you know , but the , you know let 's let 's just , uh , say professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : maybe the day after just to be s on the safe side . i could send brian the , um the transcript . i know these are er , uh , i could send him that if it would be possible , or a good idea or not , to try to do a s forced alignment on what we 're on the way we 're encoding overlaps now . professor g : well , just talk to him about it . postdoc f : good . professor g : i mean , you know , basically he 's he just studies , he 's a colleague , a friend , and , postdoc f : yeah ! professor g : uh , they and and , you know , the the organization always did wan na help us . postdoc f : super . super . professor g : it was just a question of getting , you know , the right people connected in , who had the time . grad a : right . postdoc f : yeah , yeah . professor g : so , um , eh grad a : is he on the mailing list ? the meeting recorder mailing li ? we should add him . postdoc f : yeah . i i i do n't know for sure . professor g : yeah . phd e : did something happen , morgan , that he got put on this , or was he already on it , grad a : add him . phd e : or ? professor g : no , i , eh , eh , p it it oc i h it 's yeah , something happened . i do n't know what . phd b : he asked for more work . professor g : but he 's on it now . postdoc f : that would be like that 'd be like him . he 's great . professor g : right . so , uh , where are we ? maybe , uh , uh , brief well , let 's why do n't we talk about microphone issues ? postdoc f : yeah . that 'd be great . professor g : that was that was a grad a : um , so one thing is that i did look on sony 's for a replacement for the mikes for the head m head - worn ones cuz they 're so uncomfortable . but i think i need someone who knows more about mikes than i do , because i could n't find a single other model that seemed like it would fit the connector , which seems really unlikely to me . does anyone , like , know stores or know about mikes who who would know the right questions to ask ? professor g : oh , i probably would . i mean , my knowledge is twenty years out of date but some of it 's still the same . grad a : mm - hmm . professor g : so uh , so maybe we c we can take a look at that . phd e : you could n't you could n't find the right connector to go into these things ? grad a : yep . when i looked , i they listed one microphone and that 's it as having that type of connector . but my guess is that sony maybe uses a different number for their connector than everyone else does . and and so professor g : mm - hmm . well , let 's look at it together grad a : it seems it seems really unlikely to me that there 's only one . professor g : and postdoc f : and there 's no adaptor for it ? phd c : yeah . postdoc f : seems like there 'd be a ok . grad a : as i said , who knows ? postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : who who are we buying these from ? that 'd be grad a : i have it downstairs . i do n't remember off the top of my head . professor g : yeah . ok . yeah . we we can try and look at that together . grad a : and then , uh just in terms of how you wear them i mean , i had thought about this before . i mean , when when when you use a product like dragondictate , they have a very extensive description about how to wear the microphone and so on . but i felt that in a real situation we were very seldom gon na get people to really do it and maybe it was n't worth concentrating on . but professor g : well , i think that that 's that 's a good back - off position . that 's what i was saying earlier , th that , you know , we are gon na get some recordings that are imperfect and , hey , that 's life . but i i think that it it does n't hurt , uh , the naturalness of the situation to try to have people wear the microphones properly , if possible , grad a : mm - hmm . professor g : because , um , the natural situation is really what we have with the microphones on the table . grad a : oh . that 's true . professor g : i mean , i think , you know , in the target applications that we 're talking about , people are n't gon na be wearing head - mounted mikes anyway . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor g : so this is just for u these head - mounted mikes are just for use with research . grad a : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . professor g : and , uh , it 's gon na make you know , if if an - andreas plays around with language modeling , he 's not gon na be m wan na be messed up by people breathing into the microphone . grad a : right . professor g : so it 's it 's , uh , uh grad a : well , i 'll dig through the documentation to dragondictate and ste s see if they still have the little form . professor g : but it does happen . phd d : yeah . professor g : right ? i mean , and any phd b : it 's interesting , uh , i talked to some ibm guys , uh , last january , i think , i was there . and so people who were working on the on their viavoice dictation product . professor g : yeah . phd b : and they said , uh , the breathing is really a a terrible problem for them , to to not recognize breathing as speech . so , anything to reduce breathing is is is a good thing . professor g : yeah . grad a : well , that 's the it seemed to me when i was using dragon that it was really microphone placement helped an in , uh an enormous amount . phd b : mm - hmm . grad a : so you want it enough to the side so that when you exhale through your nose , it does n't the wind does n't hit the mike . phd b : right . mm - hmm . grad a : and then , uh everyone 's adjusting their microphones , of course . and then just close enough so that you get good volume . so you know , wearing it right about here seems to be about the right way to do it . phd d : yeah . professor g : yeah . postdoc f : is uh - huh . professor g : i remember when i was when i i i i used , uh , um , a prominent laboratory 's , uh , uh , speech recognizer about , uh this was , boy , this was a while ago , this was about twelve twelve years ago or something . and , um , they were they were perturbed with me because i was breathing in instead of breathing out . and they had models for they they had markov models for br breathing out but they did n't have them for breathing in . phd d : yeah . professor g : uh postdoc f : that 's interesting . well , what i wondered is whether it 's possible to have to maybe use the display at the beginning grad a : yeah . postdoc f : to be able to to judge how how correctly i mean , have someone do some routine whatever , and and then see if when they 're breathing it 's showing . grad a : i mean , when when it 's on , you can see it . postdoc f : i do n't know if the if it 's professor g : i grad a : you can definitely see it . postdoc f : can you see the breathing ? grad a : absolutely . postdoc f : cuz i grad a : absolutely . professor g : yeah . grad a : and so , you know , i 've i 've sat here and watched sometimes the breathing , and the bar going up and down , and i 'm thinking , i could say something , but professor g : i mean , i think grad a : i do n't want to make people self - conscious . stop breathing ! professor g : it it 's going to be imperfect . postdoc f : yeah . uh - huh . professor g : you 're not gon na get it perfect . and you can do some , uh , you know , first - order thing about it , which is to have people move it , uh , uh , a away from being just directly in front of the middle phd d : yeah . postdoc f : good . professor g : but not too far away . postdoc f : yeah , i professor g : and then , you know , i think there 's not much because you ca n't al you know , interfere w you ca n't fine tune the meeting that much , i think . grad a : right . phd d : yeah . professor g : it 's sort of postdoc f : that 's true . it just seems like i if something l simple like that can be tweaked and the quality goes , you know , uh , dramatically up , then it might be worth doing . grad a : yep . and then also the position of the mike also . if it 's more directly , you 'll get better volume . so so , like , yours is pretty far down below your mouth . yeah . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : but mm - hmm . my my feedback from the transcribers is he is always close to crystal clear and and just fan fantastic to phd c : yeah . phd d : mmm , yeah . professor g : mm - hmm . grad a : i do n't know why that is . postdoc f : well , i mean , you yeah , of course . you 're you 're also uh , your volume is is greater . but but still , i mean , they they say grad a : i 've been eating a lot . postdoc f : i it makes their their job extremely easy . yeah . professor g : and then there 's mass . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : anyway . postdoc f : i could say something about about the well , i do n't know what you wan na do . yeah . professor g : about what ? postdoc f : about the transcribers or anything or ? i do n't know . professor g : well , the other phd b : but , uh , just to to , um professor g : why do n't we do that ? phd b : one more remark , uh , concerning the sri recognizer . um . it is useful to transcribe and then ultimately train models for things like breath , and also laughter is very , very frequent and important to to model . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : if you can in your transcripts mark grad a : mark them ? phd b : mark very audible breaths and laughter especially , um postdoc f : they are . they 're putting eh , so in curly brackets they put `` inhale `` or `` breath `` . grad a : oh , great . phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc f : it they and then in curly brackets they say `` laughter `` . now they 're they 're not being awfully precise , uh , m so they 're two types of laughter that are not being distinguished . phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc f : one is when sometimes s someone will start laughing when they 're in the middle of a sentence . phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and and then the other one is when they finish the sentence and then they laugh . so , um , i i did s i did some double checking to look through i mean , you 'd need to have extra e extra complications , like time tags indicating the beginning and ending of of the laughing through the utterance . phd b : it 's not so i do n't think it 's , um postdoc f : and that and what they 're doing is in both cases just saying `` curly brackets laughing `` a after the unit . phd b : as as long as there is an indication that there was laughter somewhere between two words i think that 's sufficient , phd c : yeah . postdoc f : good . oh ! grad a : against they could do forced alignment . phd b : because actually the recognition of laughter once you kn um you know , is pretty good . phd c : yeah . phd b : so as long as you can stick a you know , a t a tag in there that that indicates that there was laughter , grad a : oh , i did n't know that . phd b : that would probably be , uh , sufficient to train models . grad a : that would be a really interesting prosodic feature , postdoc f : then phd d : yeah . postdoc f : and let me ask y and i got ta ask you one thing about that . grad a : when postdoc f : so , um , if they laugh between two words , you you 'd get it in between the two words . phd b : mm - hmm . right . postdoc f : but if they laugh across three or four words you you get it after those four words . does that matter ? phd d : yeah . phd b : well , the thing that you is hard to deal with is whe when they speak while laughing . um , and that 's , uh i do n't think that we can do very well with that . grad a : right . phd b : so phd d : yeah . phd b : but , um , that 's not as frequent as just laughing between speaking , grad a : so are do you treat breath and laughter as phonetically , or as word models , or what ? phd b : so professor g : uh is it ? phd d : huh . i i think it 's frequent in in the meeting . postdoc f : i think he 's right . yeah . phd b : we tried both . uh , currently , um , we use special words . there was a there 's actually a word for uh , it 's not just breathing but all kinds of mouth grad a : mm - hmm . mouth stuff ? phd b : uh , mouth mouth stuff . and then laughter is a is a special word . grad a : how would we do that with the hybrid system ? professor g : same thing . grad a : so train a phone in the neural net ? phd b : same thing ? yeah . yeah . you ha oh . and each of these words has a dedicated phone . professor g : no grad a : oh , it does ? phd b : so the so the the mouth noise , uh , word has just a single phone , um , that is for that . grad a : right . so in the hybrid system we could train the net with a laughter phone and a breath sound phone . professor g : yeah . phd b : yeah . yeah . professor g : i mean , it 's it 's it 's always the same thing . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : right ? i mean , you could you could say well , let we now think that laughter should have three sub sub sub - units in the the three states , uh different states . phd c : yeah . professor g : and then you would have three i mean , you know , eh , eh , it 's u grad a : do whatever you want . phd b : and the the pronun the pronunciations the pronunciations are l are somewhat non - standard . phd d : yeah . professor g : yeah , yeah . phd b : they actually are uh , it 's just a single , s uh , you know , a single phone in the pronunciation , but it has a self - loop on it , so it can grad a : to go on forever ? phd b : r can go on forever . grad a : and how do you handle it in the language model ? phd b : it 's just a it 's just a word . grad a : it 's just a word in the language model . phd b : we train it like any other word . grad a : cool . phd b : yeah . we also tried , um , absorbing these uh , both laughter and and actually also noise , and , um phd d : yeah . phd b : yes . ok . anyway . we also tried absorbing that into the pause model i mean , the the the model that that matches the stuff between words . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : and , um , it did n't work as well . so . grad a : huh . ok . postdoc f : mm - hmm . grad a : can you hand me your digit form ? phd b : sorry . grad a : i just wan na mark that you did not read digits . professor g : ok . say hi for me . postdoc f : good . you you did get me to thinking about i i 'm not really sure which is more frequent , whether f f laughing i think it may be an individual thing . some people are more prone to laughing when they 're speaking . professor g : yeah . grad a : i was noticing that with dan in the one that we , uh we hand tran hand - segmented , professor g : yeah . i think postdoc f : but i ca n't phd d : yeah . grad a : that th he has these little chuckles as he talks . postdoc f : yeah . ok . professor g : i 'm sure it 's very individual . and and one thing that c that we 're not doing , of course , is we 're not claiming to , uh , get be getting a representation of mankind in these recordings . we have this very , very tiny sample of of phd d : yeah . postdoc f : yeah . phd d : yeah . grad a : speech researchers ? professor g : uh , yeah . and yeah , r right . phd d : speech research . professor g : so , uh , who knows . uh yeah . why don why do n't we just since we 're on this vein , why do n't we just continue with , uh , what you were gon na say about the transcriptions and ? postdoc f : um , um , the i i 'm really very for i 'm extremely fortunate with the people who , uh , applied and who are transcribing for us . they are , um , um , uh really perceptive and very , um and i 'm not just saying that cuz they might be hearing this . grad a : cuz they 're gon na be transcribing it in a few days . postdoc f : no , they 're super . they 're the they very quick . phd e : ok . turn the mikes off and let 's talk . postdoc f : yeah , i know . i am i 'm serious . they 're just super . so i , um , e you know , i i brought them in and , um , trained them in pairs because i think people can raise questions grad a : that 's a good idea . postdoc f : you know , i i the they think about different things and they think of different and um , i trained them to , uh , f on about a minute or two of the one that was already transcribed . this also gives me a sense of you know , i can i can use that later , with reference to inter - coder reliability kind of issues . but the main thing was to get them used to the conventions and , you know , the idea of the th th the size of the unit versus how long it takes to play it back so these th sort of calibration issues . and then , um , i just set them loose and they 're they all have e a already background in using computers . they 're , um they 're trained in linguistics . grad a : good . oh , no . is that good or bad ? postdoc f : they got professor g : uh - huh . postdoc f : well , they they 're very perce they 'll so one of them said `` well , you know , he really said `` n `` , not really `` and `` , phd d : yeah . yeah . postdoc f : so what what should i do with that ? `` grad a : yeah . postdoc f : and i said , `` well for our purposes , professor g : yeah . postdoc f : i do have a convention . if it 's an a noncanonical p `` that one , i think we you know , with eric 's work , i sort of figure we we can just treat that as a variant . but i told them if if there 's an obvious speech error , uh , like i said in one thing , professor g : ok . yes . postdoc f : and i gave my my example , like i said , `` microfon `` in instead of `` microphone `` . did n't bother i knew it when i said it . i remember s thinking `` oh , that 's not correctly pronounced `` . but it but i thought it 's not worth fixing cuz often when you 're speaking everybody knows what what you mean . grad a : you 'll self - repair . yeah . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : but i have a convention that if it 's obviously a noncanonical pronunciation a speech error with you know , wi within the realm of resolution that you can tell in this native english american english speaker , you know that i did n't mean to say `` microfon . `` then you 'd put a little tick at the beginning of the word , professor g : yeah . postdoc f : and that just signals that , um , this is not standard , and then in curly brackets `` pron error `` . and , um , and other than that , it 's w word level . but , you know , the fact that they noticed , you know , the `` nnn `` . `` he said `` nnn `` , not `` and `` . what shall i do with that ? `` i mean , they 're very perceptive . and and s several of them are trained in ipa . c they really could do phonetic transcription if if we wanted them to . professor g : mm - hmm . right . well well , you know , it might be something we 'd wan na do with some , uh , s small subset of the whole thing . grad a : hmm . where were they when we needed them ? postdoc f : i think professor g : we certainly would n't wan na do it with everything . postdoc f : and i 'm also thinking these people are a terrific pool . i mean , if , uh so i i told them that , um , we do n't know if this will continue past the end of the month professor g : uh - huh . postdoc f : and i also m i think they know that the data p source is limited and i may not be able to keep them employed till the end of the month even , although i hope to . professor g : the other thing we could do , actually , uh , is , uh , use them for a more detailed analysis of the overlaps . postdoc f : and oh , that 'd be so super . they would be so s so terrific . grad a : i mean , this was something that we were talking about . professor g : right ? grad a : we could get a very detailed overlap if they were willing to transcribe each meeting four or five times . right ? one for each participant . so they could by hand professor g : well , that 's one way to do it . grad a : yeah . professor g : but i 've been saying the other thing is just go through it for the overlaps . grad a : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm , that 's right . professor g : right ? postdoc f : and with the right in interface professor g : given that y and and do so instead of doing phonetic , uh , uh , transcription for the whole thing , phd d : yeah . professor g : which we know from the steve 's experience with the switchboard transcription is , you know , very , very time - consuming . and and you know , it took them i do n't know how many months to do to get four hours . and so that has n't been really our focus . uh , we can consider it . but , i mean , the other thing is since we 've been spending so much time thinking about overlaps is is maybe get a much more detailed analysis of the overlaps . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : but anyway , i 'm i 'm open to c our consideration . postdoc f : that 'd be great . professor g : i i do n't wan na say that by fiat . postdoc f : yeah . professor g : i 'm open to every consideration of what are some other kinds of detailed analysis that would be most useful . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : and , uh , uh , i i i think this year we we actually , uh , can do it . postdoc f : oh , wonderful . professor g : it 's a we have we have due to @ @ { comment } variations in funding we have we seem to be doing , uh , very well on m money for this this year , and next year we may have have much less . grad a : is you mean two thousand one ? professor g : so i do n't wan na hire a grad a : calendar year or ? professor g : uh , i mean , calendar year two thousand one . yeah . so it 's uh , it 's we do n't wan na hire a bunch of people , a long - term staff , grad a : full - time . yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . yeah . professor g : because the the funding that we 've gotten is sort of a big chunk for this year . but having temporary people doing some specific thing that we need is actually a perfect match to that kind of , uh , funding . postdoc f : wonderful . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : and then school will start in in the sixt on the sixteenth . some of them will have to cut back their hours at that point . professor g : yeah . phd e : are they working full - time now , or ? postdoc f : but some of them are . yeah . well , why do i would n't say forty - hour weeks . no . but what i mean is oh , i should n't say it that way because that does sound like forty - hour weeks . no . i th i i would say they 're probably they do n't have o they do n't have other things that are taking away their time . grad a : i do n't see how someone could do forty hours a week on transcription . postdoc f : but it 's you ca n't . professor g : yeah . yeah . postdoc f : no . you 're right . it 's i it would be too taxing . but , um , they 're putting in a lot of professor g : yeah . postdoc f : and and i checked them over . professor g : i postdoc f : i i i have n't checked them all , but just spot - checking . they 're fantastic . grad a : i think it would be professor g : i remember when we were transcribing berp , uh , uh , uh , ron kay , uh , volunteered to to do some of that . and , he was the first first stuff he did was transcribing chuck . and he 's saying `` you you know , i always thought chuck spoke really well . `` postdoc f : yeah . yeah . well , you know , and i also thought , y liz has this , eh , you know , and i do also , this this interest in the types of overlaps that are involved . these people would be great choices for doing coding of that type if we wanted , grad a : we 'd have to mark them . postdoc f : or whatever . so , um . professor g : mm - hmm . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : i think it would also be interesting to have , uh , a couple of the meetings have more than one transcriber do , professor g : yeah . grad a : cuz i 'm curious about inter - annotator agreement . postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : ok . yeah . th - that 'd be i think that 's a a good idea . professor g : yeah . postdoc f : you know , there 's also , the e in my mind , i think a an - andreas was leading to this topic , the idea that , um , we have n't yet seen the the type of transcript that we get from ibm , and it may just be , you know , pristine . but on the other hand , given the lesser interface cuz this is , you know we 've got a good interface , we 've got great headphones , m um professor g : it could be that they will uh theirs will end up being a kind of fir first pass or something . postdoc f : something like that . professor g : maybe an elaborate one , cuz again they probably are gon na do these alignments , which will also clear things up . postdoc f : that 's that 's true . al - although you have to s do n't you have to start with a close enough approximation of the of the verbal part to be able to ? professor g : well , tha that 's that 's debatable . right ? i mean , so the so the argument is that if your statistical system is good it will in fact , uh , clean things up . right ? so it it 's got its own objective criterion . phd d : yeah . professor g : and , uh , so in principle you could start up with something that was kind of rough i mean , to give an example of , um , something we used to do , uh , at one point , uh , back back when chuck was here in early times , is we would take , um , da take a word and , uh , have a canonical pronunciation and , uh , if there was five phones in a word , you 'd break up the word , uh , into five equal - length pieces which is completely gross . grad a : wrong . phd d : yeah . professor g : right ? i mean , th the timing is off all over the place in just about any word . postdoc f : mm - hmm . ok . professor g : but it 's o k . you start off with that and the statistical system then aligns things , and eventually you get something that does n't really look too bad . postdoc f : oh , excellent . ok . professor g : so so i think using a a good aligner , um , actually can can help a lot . um . but , uh , you know , they both help each other . if you have a if you have a better starting point , then it helps the aligner . if you have a good alignment , it helps the , uh , th the human in in taking less time to correct things . so so postdoc f : excellent . i guess there 's another aspect , too , and i do n't know uh , this this is very possibly a different , uh , topic . but , uh , just let me say with reference to this idea of , um , higher - order organization within meetings . so like in a you know , the topics that are covered during a meeting with reference to the other , uh , uses of the data , professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : so being able to find where so - and - so talked about such - and - such , then , um , um e i mean , i i i did sort of a a rough pass on encoding , like , episode - like level things on the , uh , transcribed meeting professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : already transcribed meeting . and i do n't know if , um professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : where that i if that 's something that we wan na do with each meeting , sort of like a , um it 's like a manifest , when you get a box full of stuff , or or if that 's , um professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : i mean , i i i do n't know what uh , level of detail would be most useful . i do n't know i if that 's something that i should do when i look over it , or if we want someone else to do , or whatever . professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : but this issue of the contents of the meeting in an outline form . ok . professor g : yeah . meaning really is n't my thing . um grad a : i think it just whoever is interested can do that . i mean , so if someone wants to use that data professor g : we 're running a little short here . postdoc f : that 's fine . professor g : we , uh , uh , cou trying to postdoc f : i 'm finished . professor g : eh , was p well , you know , the thing i 'm concerned about is we wanted to do these digits postdoc f : oh , yeah . professor g : and and i have n't heard , uh , from jose yet . postdoc f : oh , yes . phd d : ok . what do you want ? postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : so grad a : we could skip the digits . professor g : uh grad a : we do n't have to read digits each time . professor g : uh i i i think it you know , another another bunch of digits . more data is good . phd d : yeah . sure . professor g : so so i 'd like to do that . but i think , do you , maybe , eh ? did you prepare some whole thing you wanted us just to see ? phd d : yeah . it 's it 's prepared . professor g : or what was that ? yeah . postdoc f : oh , k sorry . professor g : uh , how long a ? phd d : i i think it 's it 's fast , because , uh , i have the results , eh , of the study of different energy without the law length . eh , um , eh , in the in the measurement , uh , the average , uh , dividing by the by the , um , variance . um , i th i professor g : yeah . phd d : the other , uh the the last w uh , meeting eh , i do n't know if you remain we have problem to with the with with the parameter with the representations of parameter , because the the valleys and the peaks in the signal , eh , look like , eh , it does n't follow to the to the energy in the signal . professor g : yes . right . phd d : and it was a problem , uh , with the scale . grad a : with what ? phd d : eh , the scale . postdoc f : scale . grad a : scale . phd d : eh , and i i change the scale and we can see the the variance . professor g : ok . but the bottom line is it 's still not , uh , separating out very well . phd d : yeah . yeah . professor g : right ? phd d : the distribution the distribution is is similar . professor g : ok . so that 's that 's that 's enough then . ok . phd d : yeah . professor g : no , i mean , that there 's no point in going through all of that if that 's the bottom line , really . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . professor g : so , i i think we have to start uh , i mean , there there 's two suggestions , really , which is , uh what we said before is that , phd d : mmm , yeah . professor g : um , it looks like , at least that you have n't found an obvious way to normalize so that the energy is anything like a reliable , uh , indicator of the overlap . phd d : yeah . yeah . professor g : um , i i 'm i 'm still a little f think that 's a little funny . these things l @ @ seems like there should be , phd d : yeah . professor g : but but you do n't want to keep , uh keep knocking at it if it 's if you 're not getting any any result with that . but , i mean , the other things that we talked about is , uh , pitch - related things and harmonicity - related things , phd d : yeah . professor g : so which we thought also should be some kind of a reasonable indicator . um but , uh , a completely different tack on it wou is the one that was suggested , uh , by your colleagues in spain , phd d : yeah . professor g : which is to say , do n't worry so much about the , uh , features . phd d : yeah . professor g : that is to say , use , you know , as as you 're doing with the speech , uh , nonspeech , use some very general features . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor g : and , uh , then , uh , look at it more from the aspect of modeling . phd d : yeah . professor g : you know , have a have a couple markov models and and , uh , try to indi try to determine , you know , w when is th when are you in an overlap , when are you not in an overlap . and let the , uh , uh , statistical system determine what 's the right way to look at the data . phd d : yeah . professor g : i i , um , i think it would be interesting to find individual features and put them together . i think that you 'd end up with a better system overall . phd d : yeah . professor g : but given the limitation in time and given the fact that javier 's system already exists doing this sort of thing , phd d : yeah . professor g : uh , but , uh , its main limitation is that , again , it 's only looking at silences which would phd d : yeah . yeah . professor g : maybe that 's a better place to go . phd d : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd d : i i i think that , eh , the possibility , eh , can be that , eh , thilo , eh , working , eh , with a new class , not only , eh , nonspeech and speech , but , eh , in in in the speech class , professor g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : dividing , eh , speech , eh , of from a speaker and overlapping , to try to to do , eh , eh , a fast a fast , eh , experiment to to prove that , nnn , this fea eh , general feature , eh , can solve the the the problem , professor g : yeah . phd d : and wh what nnn , how far is professor g : maybe . yeah . phd d : and , i i have prepared the the pitch tracker now . grad a : mm - hmm . phd d : and i hope the the next week i will have , eh , some results and we we will show we will see , eh , the the parameter the pitch , eh , tracking in with the program . professor g : i see . phd d : and , nnn , nnn professor g : ha - h have you ever looked at the , uh , uh javier 's , uh , speech segmenter ? phd c : no . no . professor g : oh . maybe m you could , you kn uh show thilo that . phd d : yeah . phd c : yeah . sure . phd d : yeah . professor g : cuz again the idea is there the limitation there again was that he was he was only using it to look at silence as a as a as a as a p putative split point between speakers . phd d : yeah . professor g : but if you included , uh , broadened classes then in principle maybe you can cover the overlap cases . phd d : yeah . phd c : yeah , but i 'm not too sure if if we can really represent overlap with with the s detector i i i used up to now , phd d : mmm , yeah . professor g : uh postdoc f : mm - hmm . grad a : i think with phd c : the to speech - nonspeech as grad a : that 's right . but i think javier 's phd c : it 's only speech or it 's it 's it 's nonspeech . phd d : ah . yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . grad a : i think javier 's might be able to . it does n't have the same gaus - uh , h m m modeling , phd c : yeah . grad a : which is i think a drawback . but , uh professor g : well , it 's sort of has a simple one . phd d : mmm , yeah . grad a : does it ? professor g : right ? it 's it 's just it 's just a is n't it just a gaussian phd d : yeah . professor g : for each ? grad a : yeah . and then he ch you choose optimal splitting . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah . oh , it does n't have it does n't have any temporal , uh ? grad a : maybe i 'm misremembering , but i did not think it had a markov professor g : i thought it yeah . i gues i guess i do n't remember either . uh . it 's been a while . phd c : yeah . uh , i could have a look at it . phd d : javier you mean ja - eh , eh , javier program ? grad a : mm - hmm . phd d : no , javier di does n't worked with , uh , a markov grad a : yeah , i did n't think so . phd d : he on only train professor g : oh , ok . so he 's just he just computes a gaussian over potential phd d : yeah . it was only gaussian . professor g : oh , i see . i see . grad a : and so i i think it would work fine for detecting overlap . phd d : this is the idea . professor g : and and grad a : it 's just , uh , that i it he has the two - pass issue that what he does is , as a first pass he he p he does , um , a guess at where the divisions might be and he overestimates . and that 's just a data reduction step , so that you 're not trying at every time interval . and so those are the putative places where he tries . phd d : yeah . phd c : yeah . ok . grad a : and right now he 's doing that with silence and that does n't work with the meeting recorder . so if we used another method to get the first pass , i think it would probably work . phd c : yeah . yeah . sure . yeah . yeah , ok . grad a : it 's a good method . as long as the len as long the segments are long enough . phd d : yeah . grad a : that 's the other problem . phd c : so professor g : o - k ok . so let me go back to what you had , though . phd c : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . professor g : the other thing one could do is could n't i mean , it 's so you have two categories phd c : yeah . professor g : and you have markov models for each . could n't you have a third category ? so you have , uh you have , uh , nonspeech , single - person speech , and multiple - person speech ? postdoc f : he has this on his board actually . do n't you have , like those those several different categories on the board ? professor g : right ? and then you have a markov model for each ? phd c : um i 'm not sure . i i thought about , uh , adding , uh , uh , another class too . but it 's not too easy , i think , the the transition between the different class , to model them in in the system i have now . but it it it could be possible , i think , professor g : i see . i see . phd c : in principle . professor g : yeah , i mean , i this is all pretty gross . phd d : yeah . professor g : i mean , the th the reason why , uh , i was suggesting originally that we look at features is because i thought , well , we 're doing something we have n't done before , phd c : yeah . professor g : we should at least look at the space and understand phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor g : it seems like if two people two or more people talk at once , it should get louder , phd c : yeah . professor g : uh , and , uh , uh , there should be some discontinuity in pitch contours , phd c : i had the impression . phd d : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor g : and , uh , there should overall be a , um , smaller proportion of the total energy that is explained by any particular harmonic sequence in the spectrum . grad a : right . phd c : yeah . professor g : so those are all things that should be there . phd c : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . professor g : so far , um , uh , jose has has been by the way , i was told i should be calling you pepe , but phd d : yeah . professor g : by your friends , but anyway , phd d : yeah . professor g : um , uh , the has has , uh , been exploring , uh , e largely the energy issue and , um , as with a lot of things , it is not uh , like this , it 's not as simple as it sounds . phd c : yeah . professor g : and then there 's , you know is it energy ? is it log energy ? is it lpc residual energy ? is it is it is it , uh , delta of those things ? uh , what is it no obviously , just a simple number absolute number is n't gon na work . so it should be with compared to what ? should there be a long window for the normalizing factor and a short window for what you 're looking at ? phd c : yeah . professor g : or , you know , how b short should they be ? so , th he 's been playing around with a lot of these different things and and so far at least has not come up with any combination that really gave you an indicator . phd d : yeah . professor g : so i i still have a hunch that there 's it 's in there some place , but it may be given that you have a limited time here , it it just may not be the best thing to to to focus on for the remaining of it . phd d : yeah . to overrule , yeah . professor g : so pitch - related and harmonic - related , i 'm i 'm somewhat more hopeful for it . phd d : yeah . yeah . professor g : but it seems like if we just wan na get something to work , phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor g : that , uh , their suggestion of of th - they were suggesting going to markov models , uh , but in addition there 's an expansion of what javier did . and one of those things , looking at the statistical component , phd c : yeah . professor g : even if the features that you give it are maybe not ideal for it , it 's just sort of this general filter bank phd c : yeah . professor g : or or cepstrum or something , um eee it 's in there somewhere probably . phd d : but , eh , what did you think about the possibility of using the javier software ? eh , i mean , the , uh the , uh the bic criterion , the the t to train the the gaussian , eh , using the the mark , eh , by hand , eh , eh , to distinguish be mmm , to train overlapping zone and speech zone . i mean , eh , i i i think that an interesting , eh , experiment , eh , could be , th eh , to prove that , mmm , if s we suppose that , eh , the the first step i mean , the the classifier what were the classifier from javier or classifier from thilo ? w what happen with the second step ? i i mean , what what happen with the , eh the , uh , clu the , uh the clu the clustering process ? grad a : mm - hmm . phd d : using the the gaussian . grad a : you mean javier 's ? phd d : yeah . grad a : what do you mean ? phd d : i i mean , that is is enough is enough , eh , to work well , eh , to , eh , separate or to distinguish , eh , between overlapping zone and , eh , speaker zone ? because th if if we if we , eh , nnn , develop an classifier and the second step does n't work well , eh , we have another problem . grad a : i yeah . i had tried doing it by hand at one point with a very short sample , and it worked pretty well , but i have n't worked with it a lot . so what i d i d i took a hand - segmented sample phd d : nnn , yeah . grad a : and i added ten times the amount of numbers at random , phd d : yeah . grad a : and it did pick out pretty good boundaries . phd d : oh . yeah . but is is if grad a : but this was just very anecdotal sort of thing . phd d : but it 's possible with my segmentation by hand that we have information about the the overlapping , grad a : right . so if we if we fed the hand - segmentation to javier 's and it does n't work , then we know something 's wrong . phd d : uh yeah . the n n yeah . no . the demonstration by hand . segmentation by hand i i i think is the fast experiment . grad a : yeah . i think that 's probably worthwhile doing . phd d : uh , we can prove that the professor g : uh - huh . grad a : whether it 'll work or not . phd d : this kind o emph emphasises parameter and gaussian grad a : yeah . professor g : yeah . grad a : yep . y do you know where his software is ? have you used it at all ? phd d : i yeah have . i have . grad a : so . i i have as well , so if you need need help let me know . professor g : let 's read some digits . grad a : ok . uuh postdoc f : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did speaker c say about detecting speech/non-speech options ? </s> professor g : and then just broadened it a bit , instead of just ta using silence as putative change point also ? phd d : nnn , yeah . professor g : so then you 've got you already have the super - structure with gaussians and h - you know , simple h m ms and so forth . and you you might so there was a there was a little bit of a a a a difference of opinion because i i thought that it was it 's interesting to look at what features are useful . phd d : yeah . professor g : but , uh , on the other hand i saw that the they had a good point that , uh , if we had something that worked for many cases before , maybe starting from there a little bit because ultimately we 're gon na end up with some s su kind of structure like that , phd d : yeah . professor g : where you have some kind of simple hmm and you 're testing the hypothesis that , uh , there is a change . phd d : yeah . professor g : so so anyway , i just reporting that . but , uh , uh so . yeah , why do n't we do the speech - nonspeech discussion ? postdoc f : yeah . do i i hear you you did n't phd c : speech - nonspeech ? ok . postdoc f : uh - huh . yeah . phd c : um , so , uh , what we basically did so far was using the mixed file to to detect s speech or nonspeech portions in that . professor g : mm - hmm . phd c : and what i did so far is i just used our old munich system , which is an hmm - ba based system with gaussian mixtures for s speech and nonspeech . and it was a system which used only one gaussian for silence and one gaussian for speech . and now i added , uh , multi - mixture possibility for for speech and nonspeech . professor g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd c : and i did some training on on one dialogue , which was transcribed by yeah . we we did a nons s speech - nonspeech transcription . phd d : jose . phd c : adam , dave , and i , we did , for that dialogue and i trained it on that . and i did some pre - segmentations for for jane . and i 'm not sure how good they are or what what the transcribers say . they they can use it or ? postdoc f : uh , they they think it 's a terrific improvement . and , um , it real it just makes a a world of difference . and , um , y you also did some something in addition which was , um , for those in which there was , uh , quiet speakers in the mix . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about volume variation ? </s> postdoc f : and , um , y you also did some something in addition which was , um , for those in which there was , uh , quiet speakers in the mix . phd c : yeah . uh , yeah . that that was one one one thing , uh , why i added more mixtures for for the speech . so i saw that there were loud loudly speaking speakers and quietly speaking speakers . professor g : mm - hmm . phd c : and so i did two mixtures , one for the loud speakers and one for the quiet speakers . grad a : and did you hand - label who was loud and who was quiet , or did you just ? phd c : i did that for for five minutes of one dialogue grad a : right . phd c : and that was enough to to train the system . phd b : w what ? phd d : yeah . phd c : and so it it adapts , uh , on while running . so . </s>
<s> what problems were faced due to overlaps ? </s> phd d : yeah . professor g : so , by doing that , you know , rather than setting any , uh , absolute threshold , you actually can do pretty good , uh , selection of who who 's talking . uh and those those systems work very well , by the way , i mean , so people use them in panel discussions and so forth with sound reinforcement differing in in sort of , phd d : uh - huh . professor g : uh and , uh , those if boy , the guy i knew who built them , built them like twenty twenty years ago , so they 're it 's the the techniques work pretty well . postdoc f : fantastic . cuz there is one thing that we do n't have right now and that is the automatic , um , channel identifier . that that , you know , that would g help in terms of encoding of overlaps . professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : the the transcribers would have less , uh , disentangling to do if that were available . professor g : yeah . so i think , you know , basically you can look at some p you have to play around a little bit , uh , to figure out what the right statistic is , phd d : mm - hmm . postdoc f : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what ’ s the status of transcription ? </s> professor g : uh - huh . postdoc f : uh th - they 're making really quick progress . professor g : yeah . that 's great . postdoc f : and , um , so my my goal was w m my charge was to get eleven hours by the end of the month . and it 'll be i 'm i 'm i 'm clear that we 'll be able to do that . professor g : that 's great . grad a : and did you , uh , forward morgan brian 's thing ? professor g : yeah . postdoc f : i sent it to , um who did i send that to ? i sent it to a list and i thought i sent it to the e to the local list . phd e : meeting recorder . grad a : oh , you did ? ok . so you probably did get that . postdoc f : you saw that ? so brian did tell me that in fact what you said , that , uh that our that they are making progress and that he 's going that they 're going he 's gon na check the f the output of the first transcription and and professor g : i mean , basically it 's it 's all the difference in the world . i mean , basically he 's he 's on it now . grad a : yeah . postdoc f : oh , that 's this is a new development . professor g : so so so this is so i it 'll happen . postdoc f : ok . super . super . ok . great . professor g : yeah . i mean , basically it 's just saying that one of our one of our best people is on it , postdoc f : yeah . professor g : you know , who just does n't happen to be here anymore . someone else pays him . so phd b : but about the need for transcription , postdoc f : is n't that great ? phd b : i mean , do n't we did n't we previously decide that the ibm transcripts would have to be checked anyway and possibly augmented ? professor g : so . yeah . postdoc f : yes . that 's true . phd b : so , i think having a good tool is worth something no matter what . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah . s ok . that 's that 's a good point . grad a : yeah , and dave gelbart did volunteer , postdoc f : good . grad a : and since he 's not here , i 'll repeat it to at least modify transcriber , which , if we do n't have something else that works , i think that 's a pretty good way of going . postdoc f : mm - hmm . grad a : and we discussed on some methods to do it . my approach originally , and i 've already hacked on it a little bit it was too slow because i was trying to display all the waveforms . but he pointed out that you do n't really have to . i think that 's a good point . </s>
<s> what did speaker f state about the transcriber tool ? </s> postdoc f : um grad a : the waveform you 're looking at does n't change . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : that 's true . grad a : yeah . postdoc f : yeah , but that 's that 's ok , cuz they 're they 're , you know , they 're focused on the ear anyway . grad a : right . postdoc f : and then and then the hack to preserve the overlaps better would be one which creates different output files for each channel , grad a : right . postdoc f : which then would also serve liz 's request of having , you know , a single channel , separable , uh , cleanly , easily separable , professor g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : uh , transcript tied to a single channel , uh , audio . professor g : mm - hmm . have , uh , folks from nist been in contact with you ? postdoc f : not directly . i 'm trying to think if if i could have gotten it over a list . i do n't i do n't think so . professor g : ok . well , holidays may have interrupted things , cuz in in in they seem to want to get absolutely clear on standards for transcription standards and so forth with with us . </s>
<s> what did the team say on alternative transcription tools ? </s> grad a : well , maybe we should get it and if it 's good enough we 'll arrange windows machines to be available . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . we could uh , potentially so . i also wanted to be sure i mean , i 've i 've seen the this this is called praat , praat , which i guess means spee speech in dutch or something . phd c : yeah , but then i 'm not sure that 's the right thing for us . postdoc f : but in terms of it being windows versus professor g : yeah . grad a : no , no . praat is n't praat 's multi - platform . postdoc f : but i 'm just wondering , is ? phd c : no . no , praat yeah . yeah . postdoc f : oh ! i see . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : oh , i see . so praat may not be phd c : that 's not praat . it 's called `` trans transedit `` i think . postdoc f : it 's a different one . phd c : the the , uh the tool from from susanne . postdoc f : i see . oh , i see . ok . ok . alright . professor g : the other thing , uh , to keep in mind , uh i mean , we 've been very concerned to get all this rolling so that we would actually have data , postdoc f : mmm , yeah . professor g : but , um , i think our outside sponsor is actually gon na kick in postdoc f : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor c : ok . so uh , he 's not here , so you get to phd d : yeah , i will try to explain the thing that i did this this week during this week . professor c : yeah . phd d : well eh you know that i work i begin to work with a new feature to detect voice - unvoice . phd e : mm - hmm . phd d : what i trying two mlp to to the with this new feature and the fifteen feature uh from the eh bus base system phd e : the the mel cepstrum ? phd d : no , satly the mes the mel cepstrum , the new base system the new base system . phd e : oh the phd d : yeah , we phd e : ok , the aurora system . phd d : yeah the aurora system with the new filter , vad or something like that . and i 'm trying two mlp , one one that only have t three output , voice , unvoice , and silence , professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and other one that have fifty - six output . the probabilities of the allophone . and i tried to do some experiment of recognition with that and only have result with with the mlp with the three output . and i put together the fifteen features and the three mlp output . and , well , the result are li a little bit better , but more or less similar . professor c : uh , i i 'm i 'm slightly confused . what what feeds the uh the three - output net ? phd d : voice , unvoice , and si professor c : no no , what feeds it ? what features does it see ? phd d : the feature the input ? the inputs are the fifteen the fifteen uh bases feature . professor c : uh - huh . phd d : the with the new code . and the other three features are r , the variance of the difference between the two spectrum , professor c : uh - huh . phd d : the variance of the auto - correlation function , except the the first point , because half the height value is r - zero professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : and also r - zero , the first coefficient of the auto - correlation function . that is like the energy with these three feature , professor c : right . phd d : also these three feature . professor c : you would n't do like r - one over r - zero or something like that ? i mean usually for voiced - unvoiced you 'd do yeah , you 'd do something you 'd do energy phd d : yeah . professor c : but then you have something like spectral slope , which is you get like r - one ov over r - zero or something like that . phd d : uh yeah . phd e : what are the r 's ? professor c : r correlations . phd e : i 'm sorry i missed it . phd d : no , r c no . auto - correlation ? yes , yes , the variance of the auto - correlation function that uses that professor c : ye - well that 's the variance , but if you just say `` what is `` i mean , to first order , um yeah one of the differences between voiced , unvoiced and silence is energy . another one is but the other one is the spectral shape . phd d : yeah , i i 'll the spectral shape , professor c : yeah , and so r - one over r - zero is what you typically use for that . phd d : yeah . no , i do n't use that i ca n't use professor c : no , i 'm saying that 's what people us typically use . see , because it because this is this is just like a single number to tell you um `` does the spectrum look like that or does it look like that `` . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : oh . r r r - zero . professor c : right ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so if it 's if it 's um if it 's low energy uh but the but the spectrum looks like that or like that , it 's probably silence . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : uh but if it 's low energy and the spectrum looks like that , it 's probably unvoiced . phd d : yeah . professor c : so if you just if you just had to pick two features to determine voiced - unvoiced , you 'd pick something about the spectrum like uh r - one over r - zero , um and r - zero phd d : mm - hmm , ok . professor c : or i i you know you 'd have some other energy measure and like in the old days people did like uh zero crossing counts . phd d : yeah , yeah . professor c : right . s s phd d : well , i can also th use this . professor c : yeah . um , phd d : bec - because the result are a little bit better but we have in a point that everything is more or less the similar more or less similar . professor c : yeah . but um phd d : it 's not quite better . professor c : right , but it seemed to me that what you were what you were getting at before was that there is something about the difference between the original signal or the original fft and with the filter which is what and the variance was one take uh on it . phd d : yeah , i used this too . professor c : right . but it it could be something else . suppose you did n't have anything like that . then in that case , if you have two nets , alright , and this one has three outputs , and this one has f phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : whatever , fifty - six , or something , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : if you were to sum up the probabilities for the voiced and for the unvoiced and for the silence here , we 've found in the past you 'll do better at voiced - unvoiced - silence than you do with this one . so just having the three output thing does n't does n't really buy you anything . the issue is what you feed it . phd d : yeah . yeah , i have yeah . no phd e : so you 're saying take the features that go into the voiced - unvoiced - silence net and feed those into the other one , as additional inputs , rather than having a separate professor c : w w well that 's another way . phd d : yeah . professor c : that was n't what i was saying but yeah that 's certainly another thing to do . no i was just trying to say if you b if you bring this into the picture over this , what more does it buy you ? and what i was saying is that the only thing i think that it buys you is um based on whether you feed it something different . and something different in some fundamental way . and so the kind of thing that that she was talking about before , was looking at something uh ab um something uh about the difference between the the uh um log fft uh log power uh and the log magnitude uh f f - spectrum uh and the um uh filter bank . phd d : yeah . professor c : and so the filter bank is chosen in fact to sort of integrate out the effects of pitch and she 's saying you know trying so the particular measure that she chose was the variance of this m of this difference , but that might not be the right number . phd d : mm - hmm . maybe . professor c : right ? i mean maybe there 's something about the variance that 's that 's not enough or maybe there 's something else that that one could use , but i think that , for me , the thing that that struck me was that uh you wan na get something back here , so here 's here 's an idea . uh what about it you skip all the all the really clever things , and just fed the log magnitude spectrum into this ? phd d : ah i 'm sorry . professor c : this is f you have the log magnitude spectrum , and you were looking at that and the difference between the filter bank and and c c computing the variance . phd d : yeah . mm - hmm . professor c : that 's a clever thing to do . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : what if you stopped being clever ? and you just took this thing in here because it 's a neural net and neural nets are wonderful phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : and figure out what they can what they most need from things , and i mean that 's what they 're good at . phd d : yeah . professor c : so i mean you 're you 're you 're trying to be clever and say what 's the statistic that should we should get about this difference but uh in fact , you know maybe just feeding this in or or feeding both of them in you know , another way , saying let it figure out what 's the what is the interaction , especially if you do this over multiple frames ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : then you have this over time , and and both kinds of measures and uh you might get uh something better . phd d : mm - hmm . phd e : so so do n't uh do n't do the division , but let the net have everything . professor c : that 's another thing you could do yeah . yeah . phd d : yeah . professor c : um . i mean , it seems to me , if you have exactly the right thing then it 's better to do it without the net because otherwise you 're asking the net to learn this you know , say if you wanted to learn how to do multiplication . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : i mean you could feed it a bunch of s you could feed two numbers that you wanted to multiply into a net and have a bunch of nonlinearities in the middle and train it to get the product of the output and it would work . but , it 's kind of crazy , cuz we know how to multiply and you you 'd be you know much lower error usually if you just multiplied it out . but suppose you do n't really know what the right thing is . and that 's what these sort of dumb machine learning methods are good at . so . um . anyway . it 's just a thought . phd e : how long does it take , carmen , to train up one of these nets ? phd d : oh , not too much . phd e : yeah . phd d : mmm , one day or less . professor c : yeah , it 's probably worth it . grad a : what are what are your f uh frame error rates for for this ? phd d : eh fifty - f six uh no , the frame error rate ? fifty - six i think . professor c : is that maybe that 's accuracy ? phd d : percent . grad a : fif - fifty - six percent accurate for v voice - unvoice phd d : the accuracy . mm - hmm . no for , yes f i do n't remember for voice - unvoice , grad a : oh , ok . phd d : maybe for the other one . professor c : yeah , voiced - unvoiced hopefully would be a lot better . phd d : for voiced . i do n't reme grad a : should be in nineties somewhere . phd d : better . maybe for voice - unvoice . grad a : right . phd d : this is for the other one . i should i ca n't show that . but i think that fifty - five was for the when the output are the fifty - six phone . grad a : mm - hmm . phd d : that i look in the with the other nnn the other mlp that we have are more or less the same number . silence will be better but more or less the same . professor c : i think at the frame level for fifty - six that was the kind of number we were getting for for uh um reduced band width uh stuff . phd d : i think that i i i think that for the other one , for the three output , is sixty sixty - two , sixty three more or less . grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : that 's all ? phd d : it 's yeah . professor c : that 's pretty bad . phd d : yeah , because it 's noise also . grad a : oh yeah . phd d : and we have professor c : aha ! yeah . yeah . ok . phd d : i know . professor c : but even i in oh yeah , in training . still , uh . well actually , so this is a test that you should do then . um , if you 're getting fifty - six percent over here , uh that 's in noise also , right ? phd d : yeah , yeah , yeah . professor c : oh ok . if you 're getting fifty - six here , try adding together the probabilities of all of the voiced phones here and all of the unvoiced phones phd d : will be professor c : and see what you get then . phd d : yeah . professor c : i bet you get better than sixty - three . phd d : well i do n't know , but i th i i think that we i have the result more or less . maybe . i do n't know . i do n't i 'm not sure but i remember @ @ that i ca n't show that . professor c : ok , but that 's a that is a a good check point , you should do that anyway , phd d : yeah . professor c : ok ? given this this uh regular old net that 's just for choosing for other purposes , uh add up the probabilities of the different subclasses and see see how well you do . uh and that you know anything that you do over here should be at least as good as that . phd d : mm - hmm . i will do that . but phd e : the targets for the neural net , uh , they come from forced alignments ? phd d : uh , { comment } no . grad a : timit canonical ma mappings . phd d : timit . professor c : oh . so , this is trained on timit . phd e : ah ! ok . grad a : yeah , noisy timit . phd d : yeah . yeah this for timit . professor c : but noisy timit ? grad a : right . phd d : noisy timit . we have noisy timit with the noise of the the ti - digits . and now we have another noisy timit also with the noise of uh italian database . professor c : i see . yeah . well there 's gon na be it looks like there 's gon na be a noisy uh some large vocabulary noisy stuff too . somebody 's preparing . phd e : really ? professor c : yeah . i forget what it 'll be , resource management , wall street journal , something . some some read task actually , that they 're preparing . phd e : for what for aurora ? professor c : yeah . yeah , so the uh uh , the issue is whether people make a decision now based on what they 've already seen , or they make it later . and one of the arguments for making it later is let 's make sure that whatever techniques that we 're using work for something more than than connected digits . phd e : when are they planning when would they do that ? professor c : mmm , i think late uh i think in the summer sometime . so . ok , thanks . phd d : this is the work that i did during this date professor c : uh - huh . phd d : and also mmm i h hynek last week say that if i have time i can to begin to to study well seriously the france telecom proposal professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : to look at the code and something like that to know exactly what they are doing because maybe that we can have some ideas professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : but not only to read the proposal . look insi look i carefully what they are doing with the program @ @ and i begin to to work also in that . but the first thing that i do n't understand is that they are using r - the uh log energy that this quite i do n't know why they have some constant in the expression of the lower energy . i do n't know what that means . phd e : they have a constant in there , you said ? phd d : yeah . professor c : oh , at the front it says uh `` log energy is equal to the rounded version of sixteen over the log of two `` phd d : this yeah . professor c : uh . uh times the phd d : then maybe i can understand . professor c : well , this is natural log , and maybe it has something to do with the fact that this is i i have no idea . phd e : is that some kind of base conversion , or ? professor c : yeah , that 's what i was thinking , but but um , then there 's the sixty - four , uh , i do n't know . phd d : because maybe they 're the threshold that they are using on the basis of this value phd e : experimental results . grad a : mc - mcdonald 's constant . phd d : i do n't know exactly , because well th i thought maybe they have a meaning . but i do n't know what is the meaning of take exactly this value . professor c : yeah , it 's pretty funny looking . phd e : so they 're taking the number inside the log and raising it to sixteen over log base two . professor c : i do n't know . yeah , i um right . sixteen over { comment } two . phd e : does it have to do with those sixty - fours , or ? professor c : um . if we ignore the sixteen , the natural log of t one over the natural log of two times the natu i do n't know . well , maybe somebody 'll think of something , but this is uh it may just be that they they want to have for very small energies , they want to have some kind of a phd d : yeah , the e the effect i do n't @ @ i can understand the effect of this , no ? because it 's to to do something like that . professor c : well , it says , since you 're taking a natural log , it says that when when you get down to essentially zero energy , this is gon na be the natural log of one , which is zero . phd d : no ? mm - hmm . professor c : so it 'll go down to uh to the natural log being so the lowest value for this would be zero . so y you 're restricted to being positive . and this sort of smooths it for very small energies . uh , why they chose sixty - four and something else , that was probably just experimental . and the the the constant in front of it , i have no idea . phd d : yeah . well . i i will look to try if i move this parameter in their code what happens , maybe everything is maybe they tres hole are on basis of this . professor c : uh i mean it they they probably have some fi particular s fixed point arithmetic that they 're using , phd d : i do n't know . professor c : and then it just phd e : yeah , i was just gon na say maybe it has something to do with hardware , professor c : yeah . phd e : something they were doing . professor c : yeah , i mean that they 're s probably working with fixed point or integer or something . i think you 're supposed to on this stuff anyway , and and so maybe that puts it in the right realm somewhere . phd e : well it just , yeah , puts it in the right range , or professor c : yeah . i think , given at the level you 're doing things in floating point on the computer , i do n't think it matters , would be my guess , phd d : mm - hmm . i this more or less anything professor c : yeah . ok , and wh when did stephane take off ? he took off phd d : i think that stephane will arrive today or tomorrow . professor c : oh , he was gone these first few days , and then he 's here for a couple days before he goes to salt lake city . phd d : mm - hmm . he 's i think that he is in las vegas or something like that . professor c : yeah . yeah . so he 's he 's going to icassp which is good . i i do n't know if there are many people who are going to icassp phd d : yeah . professor c : so so i thought , make sure somebody go . phd d : yeah . phd e : do have have people sort of stopped going to icassp in recent years ? professor c : um , people are less consistent about going to icassp and i think it 's still it 's still a reasonable forum for students to to present things . uh , it 's i think for engineering students of any kind , i think it 's it 's if you have n't been there much , it 's good to go to , uh to get a feel for things , a range of things , not just speech . uh . but i think for for sort of dyed - in - the - wool speech people , um i think that icslp and eurospeech are much more targeted . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : uh . and then there 's these other meetings , like hlt and and uh asru so there 's there 's actually plenty of meetings that are really relevant to to uh computational uh speech processing of one sort or another . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : um . so . i mean , i mostly just ignored it because i was too busy and did n't get to it . so uh wan na talk a little bit about what we were talking about this morning ? grad a : oh ! um uh yeah . professor c : just briefly , or or anything else ? grad a : so . i i guess some of the progress , i i 've been getting a getting my committee members for the quals . and um so far i have morgan and hynek , mike jordan , and i asked john ohala and he agreed . yeah . yeah . phd e : cool . grad a : so i 'm i i just need to ask um malek . one more . um . tsk . then uh i talked a little bit about um continuing with these dynamic ev um acoustic events , and um we 're we 're we 're thinking about a way to test the completeness of a a set of um dynamic uh events . uh , completeness in the in the sense that um if we if we pick these x number of acoustic events , do they provide sufficient coverage for the phones that we 're trying to recognize or or the f the words that we 're gon na try to recognize later on . and so morgan and i were uh discussing um s uh s a form of a cheating experiment where we get um we have uh um a chosen set of features , or acoustic events , and we train up a hybrid um system to do phone recognition on timit . so i i the idea is if we get good phone recognition results , using um these set of acoustic events , then um that that says that these acoustic events are g sufficient to cover a set of phones , at least found in timit . um so i it would be a a measure of `` are we on the right track with with the the choices of our acoustic events `` . um , so that 's going on . and also , just uh working on my uh final project for jordan 's class , uh which is professor c : actually , let me grad a : yeah . professor c : hold that thought . grad a : ok , sure . professor c : let me back up while we 're still on it . the the other thing i was suggesting , though , is that given that you 're talking about binary features , uh , maybe the first thing to do is just to count and uh count co - occurrences and get probabilities for a discrete hmm cuz that 'd be pretty simple because it 's just say , if you had ten ten events , uh that you were counting , uh each frame would only have a thousand possible values for these ten bits , and uh so you could make a table that would say , if you had thirty - nine phone categories , that would be a thousand by thirty - nine , and just count the co - occurrences and divide them by the the uh uh uh occ uh count the co - occurrences between the event and the phone and divide them by the number of occurrences of the phone , and that would give you the likelihood of the of the event given the phone . and um then just use that in a very simple hmm and uh you could uh do phone recognition then and uh would n't have any of the issues of the uh training of the net or i mean , it 'd be on the simple side , but phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : uh um you know , if uh uh the example i was giving was that if if you had um onset of voicing and and end of voicing as being two kinds of events , then if you had those a all marked correctly , and you counted co - occurrences , you should get it completely right . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : so . um but you 'd get all the other distinctions , you know , randomly wrong . i mean there 'd be nothing to tell you that . so um uh if you just do this by counting , then you should be able to find out in a pretty straightforward way whether you have a sufficient uh set of events to to do the kind of level of of uh classification of phones that you 'd like . so that was that was the idea . and then the other thing that we were discussing was was um ok , how do you get the your training data . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : cuz uh the switchboard transcription project uh uh you know was half a dozen people , or so working off and on over a couple years , and uh similar similar amount of data to what you 're talking about with timit training . so , it seems to me that the only reasonable starting point is uh to automatically translate the uh current timit markings into the markings you want . and uh it wo n't have the kind of characteristic that you 'd like , of catching funny kind of things that maybe are n't there from these automatic markings , phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : but but uh it 's uh phd e : it 's probably a good place to start . professor c : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah and a short short amount of time , just to again , just to see if that information is sufficient to uh determine the phones . phd e : mm - hmm . hmm . yeah , you could even then to to get an idea about how different it is , you could maybe take some subset and you know , go through a few sentences , mark them by hand and then see how different it is from you know , the canonical ones , professor c : right . phd e : just to get an idea a rough idea of h if it really even makes a difference . professor c : you can get a little feeling for it that way , yeah that is probably right . phd e : yeah . professor c : i mean uh my my guess would be that this is since timit 's read speech that this would be less of a big deal , phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : if you went and looked at spontaneous speech it 'd be more more of one . phd e : right . right . professor c : and the other thing would be , say , if you had these ten events , you 'd wan na see , well what if you took two events or four events or ten events or t and you know , and and hopefully there should be some point at which having more information does n't tell you really all that much more about what the phones are . phd e : mm - hmm . you could define other events as being sequences of these events too . professor c : uh , you could , but the thing is , what he 's talking about here is a uh a translation to a per - frame feature vector , so there 's no sequence in that , i think . i think it 's just a phd e : unless you did like a second pass over it or something after you 've got your professor c : yeah , but we 're just talking about something simple here , yeah , to see if phd e : yeah . yeah , yeah . yeah . i 'm adding complexity . professor c : yeah . just you know . the idea is with a with a very simple statistical structure , could you could you uh at least verify that you 've chosen features that are sufficient . phd e : yeah . professor c : ok , and you were saying something starting to say something else about your your class project , or ? grad a : oh . yeah th um . professor c : yeah . grad a : so for my class project i 'm um i 'm tinkering with uh support vector machines ? something that we learned in class , and uh um basically just another method for doing classification . and so i 'm gon na apply that to um compare it with the results by um king and taylor who did um these um using recurrent neural nets , they recognized um a set of phonological features um and made a mapping from the mfcc 's to these phonological features , so i 'm gon na do a similar thing with with support vector machines and see if phd e : so what 's the advantage of support vector machines ? what grad a : um . so , support vector machines are are good with dealing with a less amount of data and um so if you if you give it less data it still does a reasonable job in learning the the patterns . um and um professor c : i guess it yeah , they 're sort of succinct , and and they uh grad a : yeah . phd e : does there some kind of a distance metric that they use or how do they for cla what do they do for classification ? grad a : um . right . so , the the simple idea behind a support vector machine is um , you have you have this feature space , right ? and then it finds the optimal separating plane , um between these two different um classes , phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : and um and so um , what it i at the end of the day , what it actually does is it picks those examples of the features that are closest to the separating boundary , and remembers those phd e : mm - hmm . grad a : and and uses them to recreate the boundary for the test set . so , given these um these features , or or these these examples , um , critical examples , which they call support f support vectors , then um given a new example , if the new example falls um away from the boundary in one direction then it 's classified as being a part of this particular class and otherwise it 's the other class . phd e : so why save the examples ? why not just save what the boundary itself is ? grad a : mm - hmm . um . hmm . let 's see . uh . yeah , that 's a good question . i yeah . professor c : that 's another way of doing it . right ? so so it i mean i i guess it 's phd e : mmm . sort of an equivalent . professor c : you know , it it goes back to nearest - neighbor sort of thing , phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : right ? um , i i if is it eh w when is nearest - neighbor good ? well , nearest - neighbor good is good if you have lots and lots of examples . um but of course if you have lots and lots of examples , then it can take a while to to use nearest - neighbor . there 's lots of look ups . so a long time ago people talked about things where you would have uh a condensed nearest - neighbor , where you would you would you would pick out uh some representative examples which would uh be sufficient to represent to to correctly classify everything that came in . phd e : oh . mm - hmm . professor c : i i think s i think support vector stuff sort of goes back to to that kind of thing . um . phd e : i see . so rather than doing nearest neighbor where you compare to every single one , you just pick a few critical ones , and professor c : yeah . and th the you know , um neural net approach uh or gaussian mixtures for that matter are sort of fairly brute force kinds of things , where you sort of you predefine that there is this big bunch of parameters and then you you place them as you best can to define the boundaries , and in fact , as you know , these things do take a lot of parameters and and uh if you have uh only a modest amount of data , you have trouble uh learning them . um , so i i guess the idea to this is that it it is reputed to uh be somewhat better in that regard . phd e : mm - hmm . grad a : right . i it can be a a reduced um parameterization of of the the model by just keeping certain selected examples . yeah . so . professor c : but i do n't know if people have done sort of careful comparisons of this on large tasks or anything . maybe maybe they have . i do n't know . grad a : yeah , i do n't know either . professor c : yeah . grad b : s do you get some kind of number between zero and one at the output ? grad a : actually you do n't get a you do n't get a nice number between zero and one . you get you get either a zero or a one . um , uh there are there are pap well , basically , it 's it 's um you you get a distance measure at the end of the day , and then that distance measure is is um is translated to a zero or one . um . professor c : but that 's looking at it for for classification for binary classification , grad a : that 's for classification , right . professor c : right ? phd e : and you get that for each class , you get a zero or a one . grad a : right . professor c : but you have the distances to work with . grad a : you have the distances to work with , professor c : cuz actually mississippi state people did use support vector machines for uh uh speech recognition and they were using it to estimate probabilities . grad a : yeah . yeah . yeah , they they had a had a way to translate the distances into into probabilities with the with the simple um uh sigmoidal function . professor c : yeah , and d did they use sigmoid or a softmax type thing ? grad a : um yeah , professor c : and did n't they like exponentiate or something grad a : there 's some there 's like one over one plus the exponential or something like that . professor c : and then divide by the sum of them , or ? oh it i oh , so it is a sigmoidal . grad a : yeah . professor c : ok . alright . phd e : did the did they get good results with that ? professor c : i mean , they 're ok , i i do n't i do n't think they were earth earth shattering , but i think that uh this was a couple years ago , i remember them doing it at some meeting , and and um i do n't think people were very critical because it was interesting just to to try this and you know , it was the first time they tried it , so so the you know , the numbers were not incredibly good but there 's you know , it was th reasonable . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : i i do n't remember anymore . i do n't even remember what the task was , it { comment } was broadcast news , or something . i do n't know . grad a : right . grad b : uh s so barry , if you just have zero and ones , how are you doing the speech recognition ? grad a : oh i 'm not do i 'm not planning on doing speech recognition with it . i 'm just doing detection of phonological features . grad b : oh . ok . grad a : so uh for example , this this uh feature set called the uh sound patterns of english um is just a bunch of um binary valued features . let 's say , is this voicing , or is this not voicing , is this sonorants , not sonorants , and stuff like that . phd e : did you find any more mistakes in their tables ? grad a : oh ! uh i have n't gone through the entire table , yet . yeah , yesterday i brought chuck the table and i was like , `` wait , this is is the mapping from n to to this phonological feature called um `` coronal `` , is is should it be should n't it be a one ? or should it should it be you know coronal instead of not coronal as it was labelled in the paper ? `` so i ha have n't hunted down all the all the mistakes yet , professor c : uh - huh . grad a : but professor c : but a as i was saying , people do get probabilities from these things , and and uh we were just trying to remember how they do , but people have used it for speech recognition , and they have gotten probabilities . so they have some conversion from these distances to probabilities . grad a : right , yeah . professor c : there 's you have you have the paper , right ? the mississippi state paper ? grad a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor c : yeah , if you 're interested y you could look , grad b : and ok . ok . grad a : yeah , i can i can show you i professor c : yeah . grad a : yeah , our phd e : so in your in in the thing that you 're doing , uh you have a vector of ones and zeros for each phone ? grad a : mm - hmm . uh , is this the class project , or ? phd e : yeah . grad a : ok . um phd e : is that what you 're grad a : right , { comment } right , right f so for every phone there is there is a um a vector of ones and zeros f uh corresponding to whether it exhibits a particular phonological feature or not . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . and so when you do your wh i 'm what is the task for the class project ? to come up with the phones ? or to come up with these vectors to see how closely they match the phones , grad a : oh . right , um to come up with a mapping from um mfcc 's or s some feature set , um to uh w to whether there 's existence of a particular phonological feature . phd e : or ? mm - hmm . grad a : and um yeah , basically it 's to learn a mapping from from the mfcc 's to uh phonological features . is it did that answer your question ? phd e : i think so . grad a : ok . c phd e : i guess i mean , uh i 'm not sure what you what you 're what you get out of your system . do you get out a uh a vector of these ones and zeros and then try to find the closest matching phoneme to that vector , grad a : mm - hmm . oh . phd e : or ? grad a : no , no . i 'm not i 'm not planning to do any any phoneme mapping yet . just it 's it 's basically it 's it 's really simple , basically a detection of phonological features . phd e : uh - huh . grad a : yeah , phd e : i see . grad a : and um cuz the uh so king and and taylor um did this with uh recurrent neural nets , phd e : yeah . grad a : and this i their their idea was to first find a mapping from mfcc 's to uh phonological features phd e : mm - hmm . grad a : and then later on , once you have these phonological features , then uh map that to phones . phd e : mm - hmm . grad a : so i 'm i 'm sort of reproducing phase one of their stuff . phd e : mmm . so they had one recurrent net for each particular feature ? grad a : right . right . right . right . phd e : i see . i wo did they compare that i mean , what if you just did phone recognition and did the reverse lookup . so you recognize a phone and which ever phone was recognized , you spit out it 's vector of ones and zeros . grad a : mm - hmm . uh . professor c : i expect you could do that . phd e : i mean uh professor c : that 's probably not what he 's going to do on his class project . yeah . phd e : yeah . no . grad a : yeah . professor c : so um have you had a chance to do this um thing we talked about yet with the uh um phd e : insertion penalty ? professor c : uh . no actually i was going a different that 's a good question , too , but i was gon na ask about the the um changes to the data in comparing plp and mel cepstrum for the sri system . phd e : uh . well what i 've been `` changes to the data `` , i 'm not sure i professor c : right . so we talked on the phone about this , that that there was still a difference of a of a few percent phd e : yeah . right . professor c : and you told me that there was a difference in how the normalization was done . and i was asking if you were going to do redo it uh for plp with the normalization done as it had been done for the mel cepstrum . phd e : mm - hmm . uh right , no i have n't had a chance to do that . what i 've been doing is uh trying to figure out it just seems to me like there 's a um well it seems like there 's a bug , because the difference in performance is it 's not gigantic but it 's big enough that it it seems wrong . professor c : yeah , i agree , but i thought that the normalization difference was one of the possibilities , phd e : and yeah , but i do n't i 'm not professor c : right ? phd e : yeah , i guess i do n't think that the normalization difference is gon na account for everything . so what i was working on is um just going through and checking the headers of the wavefiles , to see if maybe there was a um a certain type of compression or something that was done that my script was n't catching . so that for some subset of the training data , uh the the the features i was computing were junk . which would you know cause it to perform ok , but uh , you know , the the models would be all messed up . so i was going through and just double - checking that kind of think first , to see if there was just some kind of obvious bug in the way that i was computing the features . professor c : mm - hmm . i see . ok . phd e : looking at all the sampling rates to make sure all the sampling rates were what eight k , what i was assuming they were , professor c : yeah . phd e : um professor c : yeah , that makes sense , to check all that . phd e : yeah . so i was doing that first , before i did these other things , just to make sure there was n't something professor c : although really , uh uh , a couple three percent uh difference in word error rate uh { comment } could easily come from some difference in normalization , i would think . but phd e : yeah , and i think , hhh { comment } i 'm trying to remember but i think i recall that andreas was saying that he was gon na run sort of the reverse experiment . uh which is to try to emulate the normalization that we did but with the mel cepstral features . sort of , you know , back up from the system that he had . i thought he said he was gon na i have to look back through my my email from him . professor c : yeah , he 's probably off at at uh his meeting now , phd e : yeah , he 's gone now . professor c : yeah . yeah . but yeah phd e : but professor c : the i sh think they should be roughly equivalent , um i mean again the cambridge folk found the plp actually to be a little better . uh so it 's um phd e : right . professor c : i mean the other thing i wonder about was whether there was something just in the the bootstrapping of their system which was based on but maybe not , since they phd e : yeah see one thing that 's a little bit um i was looking i 've been studying and going through the logs for the system that um andreas created . and um his uh the way that the { comment } s r i system looks like it works is that it reads the wavefiles directly , uh and does all of the cepstral computation stuff on the fly . professor c : right . right . phd e : and , so there 's no place where these where the cepstral files are stored , anywhere that i can go look at and compare to the plp ones , so whereas with our features , he 's actually storing the cepstrum on disk , and he reads those in . professor c : right . phd e : but it looked like he had to give it uh even though the cepstrum is already computed , he has to give it uh a front - end parameter file . which talks about the kind of uh com computation that his mel cepstrum thing does , professor c : uh - huh . phd e : so i i i do n't know if that it probably does n't mess it up , it probably just ignores it if it determines that it 's already in the right format or something but the the the two processes that happen are a little different . professor c : yeah . so anyway , there 's stuff there to sort out . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor c : so , ok . let 's go back to what you thought i was asking you . phd e : yeah no and i did n't have a chance to do that . professor c : ha ! oh ! you had the sa same answer anyway . phd e : yeah . yeah . i 've been um , i 've been working with um jeremy on his project and then i 've been trying to track down this bug in uh the icsi front - end features . professor c : uh - huh . phd e : so one thing that i did notice , yesterday i was studying the um the uh rasta code professor c : uh - huh . phd e : and it looks like we do n't have any way to um control the frequency range that we use in our analysis . we basically it looks to me like we do the fft , um and then we just take all the bins and we use everything . we do n't have any set of parameters where we can say you know , `` only process from you know a hundred and ten hertz to thirty - seven - fifty `` . professor c : um phd e : at least i could n't see any kind of control for that . professor c : yeah , i do n't think it 's in there , i think it 's in the uh uh uh the filters . so , the f f t is on everything , but the filters um , for instance , ignore the the lowest bins and the highest bins . and what it does is it it copies phd e : the the filters ? which filters ? professor c : um the filter bank which is created by integrating over f f t bins . phd e : mm - hmm . when you get the mel when you go to the mel scale . professor c : right . yeah , it 's bark scale , and it 's it it um it actually copies the uh um the second filters over to the first . so the first filters are always and you can s you can specify a different number of uh features different number of filters , i think , as i recall . so you can specify a different number of filters , and whatever um uh you specify , the last ones are gon na be ignored . so that that 's a way that you sort of change what the what the bandwidth is . y you ca n't do it without i think changing the number of filters , but phd e : i saw something about uh that looked like it was doing something like that , but i did n't quite understand it . so maybe professor c : yeah , so the idea is that the very lowest frequencies and and typically the veriest { comment } highest frequencies are kind of junk . phd e : uh - huh . professor c : and so um you just for continuity you just approximate them by by the second to highest and second to lowest . it 's just a simple thing we put in . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : and and so if you h phd e : but so the but that 's a fixed uh thing ? professor c : yeah , { comment } i think that 's a fixed thing . phd e : there 's nothing that lets you professor c : but see see my point ? if you had if you had ten filters , then you would be throwing away a lot at the two ends . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : and if you had if you had fifty filters , you 'd be throwing away hardly anything . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : um , i do n't remember there being an independent way of saying `` we 're just gon na make them from here to here `` . phd e : use this analysis bandwidth or something . professor c : but i i i do n't know , it 's actually been awhile since i 've looked at it . phd e : yeah , i went through the feacalc code and then looked at you know just calling the rasta libs { comment } and thing like that . and i did n't i could n't see any wh place where that kind of thing was done . but um i did n't quite understand everything that i saw , professor c : yeah , see i do n't know feacalc at all . phd e : so mm - hmm . professor c : but it calls rasta with some options , and um phd e : right . professor c : but i i think in i do n't know . i guess for some particular database you might find that you could tune that and tweak that to get that a little better , but i think that in general it 's not that critical . i mean there 's phd e : yeah . professor c : you can you can throw away stuff below a hundred hertz or so and it 's just not going to affect phonetic classification at all . phd e : another thing i was thinking about was um is there a i was wondering if there 's maybe um certain settings of the parameters when you compute plp which would basically cause it to output mel cepstrum . so that , in effect , what i could do is use our code but produce mel cepstrum and compare that directly to professor c : well , it 's not precisely . yeah . i mean , um , um what you can do is um you can definitely change the the filter bank from being uh a uh trapezoidal integration to a a a triangular one , phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : which is what the typical mel mel cepstral uh filter bank does . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : and some people have claimed that they got some better performance doing that , so you certainly could do that easily . but the fundamental difference , i mean , there 's other small differences phd e : there 's a cubic root that happens , right ? professor c : yeah , but , you know , as opposed to the log in the other case . i mean the fundamental d d difference that we 've seen any kind of difference from before , which is actually an advantage for the p l p i uh , i think , is that the the smoothing at the end is auto - regressive instead of being cepstral uh , { comment } from cepstral truncation . so um it 's a little more noise robust . um , and that 's that 's why when people started getting databases that had a little more noise in it , like like uh um broadcast news and so on , that 's why c cambridge switched to plp i think . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : so um that 's a difference that i do n't think we put any way to get around , since it was an advantage . um uh phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : but we did eh we did hear this comment from people at some point , that um it uh they got some better results with the triangular filters rather than the trapezoidal . so that is an option in rasta . uh and you can certainly play with that . but i think you 're probably doing the right thing to look for bugs first . i do n't know . phd e : yeah just it just seems like this kind of behavior could be caused by you know s some of the training data being messed up . professor c : could be . phd e : you know , you 're sort of getting most of the way there , but there 's a so i started going through and looking one of the things that i did notice was that the um log likelihoods coming out of the log recognizer from the plp data were much lower , much smaller , than for the mel cepstral stuff , and that the average amount of pruning that was happening was therefore a little bit higher for the plp features . professor c : oh - huh ! phd e : so , since he used the same exact pruning thresholds for both , i was wondering if it could be that we 're getting more pruning . professor c : oh ! he he he used the identical pruning thresholds even though the s the range of p of the likeli phd e : yeah . professor c : oh well that 's that 's a pretty good { comment } point right there . phd e : right . right . professor c : yeah . phd e : yeah , professor c : i would think that you might wan na do something like uh you know , look at a few points to see where you are starting to get significant search errors . phd e : so that 's right . well , what i was gon na do is i was gon na take um a couple of the utterances that he had run through , then run them through again but modify the pruning threshold and see if it you know , affects the score . professor c : yeah . yeah . but i mean you could uh if if if that looks promising you could , you know , r uh run the overall test set with a with a few different uh pruning thresholds for both , phd e : so . mm - hmm . professor c : and presumably he 's running at some pruning threshold that 's that 's uh , you know gets very few search errors phd e : right . professor c : but is is relatively fast phd e : mm - hmm . right . i mean , yeah , generally in these things you you turn back pruning really far , professor c : and phd e : so i i did n't think it would be that big a deal because i was figuring well you have it turned back so far that you know it professor c : but you may be in the wrong range for the p l p features for some reason . phd e : yeah . yeah . yeah . and the uh the the run time of the recognizer on the plp features is longer which sort of implies that the networks are bushier , you know , there 's more things it 's considering which goes along with the fact that the matches are n't as good . so uh , you know , it could be that we 're just pruning too much . professor c : yeah . yeah , maybe just be different kind of distributions and and phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah so that 's another possible thing . they they should really should n't phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : there 's no particular reason why they would be exactly behave exactly the same . phd e : mm - hmm . right . right . so . there 's lots of little differences . professor c : yeah . phd e : so . uh . professor c : yeah . phd e : trying to track it down . professor c : yeah . i guess this was a little bit off topic , i guess , because i was i was thinking in terms of th this as being a a a a core item that once we once we had it going we would use for a number of the front - end things also . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : um wan na grad b : that 's as far as my stuff goes , professor c : what 's what 's on grad b : yeah , well i tried this mean subtraction method . professor c : yeah . grad b : um . due to avendano , i 'm taking s um six seconds of speech , um i 'm using two second fft analysis frames , stepped by a half second so it 's a quarter length step and i i take that frame and four f the four i take sorry , i take the current frame and the four past frames and the four future frames and that adds up to six seconds of speech . and i calculate um the spectral mean , of the log magnitude spectrum over that n . i use that to normalize the s the current center frame by mean subtraction . and i then then i move to the next frame and i i do it again . well , actually i calculate all the means first and then i do the subtraction . and um the i tried that with hdk , the aurora setup of hdk training on clean ti - digits , and um it it helped um in a phony reverberation case um where i just used the simulated impulse response um the error rate went from something like eighty it was from something like eighteen percent to um four percent . and on meeting rec recorder far mike digits , mike on channel f , it went from um forty - one percent error to eight percent error . phd e : on on the real data , not with artificial reverb ? grad b : right . phd e : uh - huh . grad b : and that that was um trained on clean speech only , which i 'm guessing is the reason why the baseline was so bad . and professor c : that 's ac actually a little side point is i think that 's the first results that we have uh uh uh of any sort on the far field uh on on the far field data uh for recorded in in meetings . grad b : oh um actually um adam ran the sri recognizer . professor c : did he ? on the near field , on the ne grad b : on the far field also . he did one pzm channel and one pda channel . professor c : oh did he ? oh ! i did n't recall that . what kind of numbers was he getting with that ? grad b : i i 'm not sure , i think it was about five percent error for the pzm channel . professor c : five . grad b : f i think . yeah . professor c : so why were you getting forty - one here ? is this grad b : um . i i 'm g i 'm guessing it was the the training data . uh , clean ti - digits is , like , pretty pristine training data , and if they trained the sri system on this tv broadcast type stuff , i think it 's a much wider range of channels and it professor c : no , but wait a minute . i i i th i think he what am i saying here ? yeah , so that was the sri system . maybe you 're right . yeah . cuz it was getting like one percent so it 's still this kind of ratio . it was it was getting one percent or something on the near field . was n't it ? phd e : mm - hmm , or it wa a it was around one . professor c : yeah . yeah . i think it was getting around one percent for the near for the n for the close mike . phd e : yeah . grad b : huh ? ok . professor c : so it was like one to five so it 's still this kind of ratio . it 's just yeah , it 's a lot more training data . so so probably it should be something we should try then is to is to see if is at some point just to take i to transform the data and then and then uh use th use it for the sri system . grad b : b you me you mean um ta professor c : so you 're so you have a system which for one reason or another is relatively poor , grad b : yeah . professor c : and and uh you have something like forty - one percent error uh and then you transform it to eight by doing doing this this work . um . so here 's this other system , which is a lot better , but there 's still this kind of ratio . it 's something like five percent error with the the distant mike , and one percent with the close mike . so the question is how close to that one can you get if you transform the data using that system . grad b : r right , so so i guess this sri system is trained on a lot of s broadcast news or switchboard data . is that right ? professor c : yeah . grad b : do you know which one it is ? phd e : it 's trained on a lot of different things . um . it 's trained on uh a lot of switchboard , call home , grad b : uh - huh . phd e : um a bunch of different sources , some digits , there 's some digits training in there . grad b : o one thing i 'm wondering about is what this mean subtraction method um will do if it 's faced with additive noise . cuz i i it 's cuz i do n't know what log magnitude spectral subtraction is gon na do to additive noise . professor c : yeah , grad b : that 's that 's the professor c : well , it 's it 's not exactly the right thing grad b : uh - huh . professor c : but uh but you 've already seen that cuz there is added noise here . grad b : that 's that 's yeah , that 's true . that 's a good point . professor c : yeah . so um grad b : ok , so it 's then then it 's it 's it 's reasonable to expect it would be helpful if we used it with the sri system and professor c : yeah , i mean , as helpful i mean , so that 's the question . yeah , w we 're often asked this when we work with a system that that is n't is n't sort of industry industry standard great , grad b : uh - huh . professor c : uh and we see some reduction in error using some clever method , then , you know , will it work on a on a on a good system . so uh you know , this other one 's it was a pretty good system . i think , you know , one one percent word error rate on digits is uh digit strings is not uh you know stellar , but but given that this is real digits , as opposed to uh sort of laboratory grad b : mm - hmm . professor c : well . phd e : and it was n't trained on this task either . professor c : and it was n't trained on this task . actually one percent is sort of you know , sort of in a reasonable range . grad b : mm - hmm . professor c : people would say `` yeah , i could i can imagine getting that `` . and uh so the the four or five percent or something is is is quite poor . grad b : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , you know , if you 're doing a uh a sixteen digit uh credit card number you 'll basically get it wrong almost all the time . so . so . uh , um a significant reduction in the error for that would be great . grad b : huh , ok . professor c : and and then , uh yeah . so . yeah . cool . grad b : sounds good . professor c : yeah . alright , um , i actually have to run . so i do n't think i can do the digits , but um , i guess i 'll leave my microphone on ? phd e : uh , yeah . professor c : yeah . thank you . phd e : yep . yeah . that 'll work . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about voice-unvoice detection </s> professor c : ok . so uh , he 's not here , so you get to phd d : yeah , i will try to explain the thing that i did this this week during this week . professor c : yeah . phd d : well eh you know that i work i begin to work with a new feature to detect voice - unvoice . phd e : mm - hmm . phd d : what i trying two mlp to to the with this new feature and the fifteen feature uh from the eh bus base system phd e : the the mel cepstrum ? phd d : no , satly the mes the mel cepstrum , the new base system the new base system . phd e : oh the phd d : yeah , we phd e : ok , the aurora system . phd d : yeah the aurora system with the new filter , vad or something like that . and i 'm trying two mlp , one one that only have t three output , voice , unvoice , and silence , professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and other one that have fifty - six output . the probabilities of the allophone . and i tried to do some experiment of recognition with that and only have result with with the mlp with the three output . and i put together the fifteen features and the three mlp output . and , well , the result are li a little bit better , but more or less similar . professor c : uh , i i 'm i 'm slightly confused . what what feeds the uh the three - output net ? phd d : voice , unvoice , and si professor c : no no , what feeds it ? what features does it see ? phd d : the feature the input ? the inputs are the fifteen the fifteen uh bases feature . professor c : uh - huh . phd d : the with the new code . and the other three features are r , the variance of the difference between the two spectrum , professor c : uh - huh . phd d : the variance of the auto - correlation function , except the the first point , because half the height value is r - zero professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : and also r - zero , the first coefficient of the auto - correlation function . that is like the energy with these three feature , professor c : right . phd d : also these three feature . professor c : you would n't do like r - one over r - zero or something like that ? i mean usually for voiced - unvoiced you 'd do yeah , you 'd do something you 'd do energy phd d : yeah . professor c : but then you have something like spectral slope , which is you get like r - one ov over r - zero or something like that . phd d : uh yeah . phd e : what are the r 's ? professor c : r correlations . phd e : i 'm sorry i missed it . phd d : no , r c no . auto - correlation ? yes , yes , the variance of the auto - correlation function that uses that professor c : ye - well that 's the variance , but if you just say `` what is `` i mean , to first order , um yeah one of the differences between voiced , unvoiced and silence is energy . another one is but the other one is the spectral shape . phd d : yeah , i i 'll the spectral shape , professor c : yeah , and so r - one over r - zero is what you typically use for that . phd d : yeah . no , i do n't use that i ca n't use professor c : no , i 'm saying that 's what people us typically use . see , because it because this is this is just like a single number to tell you um `` does the spectrum look like that or does it look like that `` . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : oh . r r r - zero . professor c : right ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so if it 's if it 's um if it 's low energy uh but the but the spectrum looks like that or like that , it 's probably silence . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : uh but if it 's low energy and the spectrum looks like that , it 's probably unvoiced . phd d : yeah . professor c : so if you just if you just had to pick two features to determine voiced - unvoiced , you 'd pick something about the spectrum like uh r - one over r - zero , um and r - zero phd d : mm - hmm , ok . professor c : or i i you know you 'd have some other energy measure and like in the old days people did like uh zero crossing counts . phd d : yeah , yeah . professor c : right . s s phd d : well , i can also th use this . professor c : yeah . um , phd d : bec - because the result are a little bit better but we have in a point that everything is more or less the similar more or less similar . professor c : yeah . but um phd d : it 's not quite better . professor c : right , but it seemed to me that what you were what you were getting at before was that there is something about the difference between the original signal or the original fft and with the filter which is what and the variance was one take uh on it . phd d : yeah , i used this too . professor c : right . but it it could be something else . suppose you did n't have anything like that . then in that case , if you have two nets , alright , and this one has three outputs , and this one has f phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : whatever , fifty - six , or something , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : if you were to sum up the probabilities for the voiced and for the unvoiced and for the silence here , we 've found in the past you 'll do better at voiced - unvoiced - silence than you do with this one . so just having the three output thing does n't does n't really buy you anything . the issue is what you feed it . phd d : yeah . yeah , i have yeah . no phd e : so you 're saying take the features that go into the voiced - unvoiced - silence net and feed those into the other one , as additional inputs , rather than having a separate professor c : w w well that 's another way . phd d : yeah . professor c : that was n't what i was saying but yeah that 's certainly another thing to do . no i was just trying to say if you b if you bring this into the picture over this , what more does it buy you ? and what i was saying is that the only thing i think that it buys you is um based on whether you feed it something different . and something different in some fundamental way . and so the kind of thing that that she was talking about before , was looking at something uh ab um something uh about the difference between the the uh um log fft uh log power uh and the log magnitude uh f f - spectrum uh and the um uh filter bank . phd d : yeah . professor c : and so the filter bank is chosen in fact to sort of integrate out the effects of pitch and she 's saying you know trying so the particular measure that she chose was the variance of this m of this difference , but that might not be the right number . phd d : mm - hmm . maybe . professor c : right ? i mean maybe there 's something about the variance that 's that 's not enough or maybe there 's something else that that one could use , but i think that , for me , the thing that that struck me was that uh you wan na get something back here , so here 's here 's an idea . uh what about it you skip all the all the really clever things , and just fed the log magnitude spectrum into this ? phd d : ah i 'm sorry . professor c : this is f you have the log magnitude spectrum , and you were looking at that and the difference between the filter bank and and c c computing the variance . phd d : yeah . mm - hmm . professor c : that 's a clever thing to do . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : what if you stopped being clever ? and you just took this thing in here because it 's a neural net and neural nets are wonderful phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : and figure out what they can what they most need from things , and i mean that 's what they 're good at . phd d : yeah . professor c : so i mean you 're you 're you 're trying to be clever and say what 's the statistic that should we should get about this difference but uh in fact , you know maybe just feeding this in or or feeding both of them in you know , another way , saying let it figure out what 's the what is the interaction , especially if you do this over multiple frames ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : then you have this over time , and and both kinds of measures and uh you might get uh something better . phd d : mm - hmm . phd e : so so do n't uh do n't do the division , but let the net have everything . professor c : that 's another thing you could do yeah . yeah . phd d : yeah . professor c : um . i mean , it seems to me , if you have exactly the right thing then it 's better to do it without the net because otherwise you 're asking the net to learn this you know , say if you wanted to learn how to do multiplication . phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : i mean you could feed it a bunch of s you could feed two numbers that you wanted to multiply into a net and have a bunch of nonlinearities in the middle and train it to get the product of the output and it would work . but , it 's kind of crazy , cuz we know how to multiply and you you 'd be you know much lower error usually if you just multiplied it out . but suppose you do n't really know what the right thing is . and that 's what these sort of dumb machine learning methods are good at . so . um . anyway . it 's just a thought . phd e : how long does it take , carmen , to train up one of these nets ? phd d : oh , not too much . phd e : yeah . phd d : mmm , one day or less . professor c : yeah , it 's probably worth it . grad a : what are what are your f uh frame error rates for for this ? phd d : eh fifty - f six uh no , the frame error rate ? fifty - six i think . professor c : is that maybe that 's accuracy ? phd d : percent . grad a : fif - fifty - six percent accurate for v voice - unvoice phd d : the accuracy . mm - hmm . no for , yes f i do n't remember for voice - unvoice , grad a : oh , ok . phd d : maybe for the other one . professor c : yeah , voiced - unvoiced hopefully would be a lot better . phd d : for voiced . i do n't reme grad a : should be in nineties somewhere . phd d : better . maybe for voice - unvoice . grad a : right . phd d : this is for the other one . i should i ca n't show that . but i think that fifty - five was for the when the output are the fifty - six phone . grad a : mm - hmm . phd d : that i look in the with the other nnn the other mlp that we have are more or less the same number . silence will be better but more or less the same . professor c : i think at the frame level for fifty - six that was the kind of number we were getting for for uh um reduced band width uh stuff . phd d : i think that i i i think that for the other one , for the three output , is sixty sixty - two , sixty three more or less . grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : that 's all ? phd d : it 's yeah . professor c : that 's pretty bad . phd d : yeah , because it 's noise also . grad a : oh yeah . phd d : and we have professor c : aha ! yeah . yeah . ok . phd d : i know . professor c : but even i in oh yeah , in training . still , uh . well actually , so this is a test that you should do then . um , if you 're getting fifty - six percent over here , uh that 's in noise also , right ? phd d : yeah , yeah , yeah . professor c : oh ok . if you 're getting fifty - six here , try adding together the probabilities of all of the voiced phones here and all of the unvoiced phones phd d : will be professor c : and see what you get then . phd d : yeah . professor c : i bet you get better than sixty - three . phd d : well i do n't know , but i th i i think that we i have the result more or less . maybe . i do n't know . i do n't i 'm not sure but i remember @ @ that i ca n't show that . professor c : ok , but that 's a that is a a good check point , you should do that anyway , phd d : yeah . professor c : ok ? given this this uh regular old net that 's just for choosing for other purposes , uh add up the probabilities of the different subclasses and see see how well you do . uh and that you know anything that you do over here should be at least as good as that . phd d : mm - hmm . i will do that . but phd e : the targets for the neural net , uh , they come from forced alignments ? phd d : uh , { comment } no . grad a : timit canonical ma mappings . phd d : timit . professor c : oh . so , this is trained on timit . phd e : ah ! ok . grad a : yeah , noisy timit . phd d : yeah . yeah this for timit . professor c : but noisy timit ? grad a : right . phd d : noisy timit . we have noisy timit with the noise of the the ti - digits . and now we have another noisy timit also with the noise of uh italian database . professor c : i see . yeah . well there 's gon na be it looks like there 's gon na be a noisy uh some large vocabulary noisy stuff too . somebody 's preparing . phd e : really ? professor c : yeah . i forget what it 'll be , resource management , wall street journal , something . some some read task actually , that they 're preparing . phd e : for what for aurora ? professor c : yeah . yeah , so the uh uh , the issue is whether people make a decision now based on what they 've already seen , or they make it later . and one of the arguments for making it later is let 's make sure that whatever techniques that we 're using work for something more than than connected digits . phd e : when are they planning when would they do that ? professor c : mmm , i think late uh i think in the summer sometime . so . ok , thanks . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about improving voice-unvoice detection ? </s> professor c : yeah , and so r - one over r - zero is what you typically use for that . phd d : yeah . no , i do n't use that i ca n't use professor c : no , i 'm saying that 's what people us typically use . see , because it because this is this is just like a single number to tell you um `` does the spectrum look like that or does it look like that `` . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : oh . r r r - zero . professor c : right ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so if it 's if it 's um if it 's low energy uh but the but the spectrum looks like that or like that , it 's probably silence . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : uh but if it 's low energy and the spectrum looks like that , it 's probably unvoiced . phd d : yeah . professor c : so if you just if you just had to pick two features to determine voiced - unvoiced , you 'd pick something about the spectrum like uh r - one over r - zero , um and r - zero phd d : mm - hmm , ok . professor c : or i i you know you 'd have some other energy measure and like in the old days people did like uh zero crossing counts . phd d : yeah , yeah . professor c : right . s s phd d : well , i can also th use this . professor c : yeah . um , phd d : bec - because the result are a little bit better but we have in a point that everything is more or less the similar more or less similar . professor c : yeah . but um phd d : it 's not quite better . professor c : right , but it seemed to me that what you were what you were getting at before was that there is something about the difference between the original signal or the original fft and with the filter which is what and the variance was one take uh on it . phd d : yeah , i used this too . professor c : right . but it it could be something else . suppose you did n't have anything like that . then in that case , if you have two nets , alright , and this one has three outputs , and this one has f phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : whatever , fifty - six , or something , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : if you were to sum up the probabilities for the voiced and for the unvoiced and for the silence here , we 've found in the past you 'll do better at voiced - unvoiced - silence than you do with this one . so just having the three output thing does n't does n't really buy you anything . the issue is what you feed it . phd d : yeah . yeah , i have yeah . no phd e : so you 're saying take the features that go into the voiced - unvoiced - silence net and feed those into the other one , as additional inputs , rather than having a separate professor c : w w well that 's another way . phd d : yeah . professor c : that was n't what i was saying but yeah that 's certainly another thing to do . no i was just trying to say if you b if you bring this into the picture over this , what more does it buy you ? and what i was saying is that the only thing i think that it buys you is um based on whether you feed it something different . and something different in some fundamental way . and so the kind of thing that that she was talking about before , was looking at something uh ab um something uh about the difference between the the uh um log fft uh log power uh and the log magnitude uh f f - spectrum uh and the um uh filter bank . phd d : yeah . professor c : and so the filter bank is chosen in fact to sort of integrate out the effects of pitch and she 's saying you know trying so the particular measure that she chose was the variance of this m of this difference , but that might not be the right number . phd d : mm - hmm . maybe . professor c : right ? i mean maybe there 's something about the variance that 's that 's not enough or maybe there 's something else that that one could use , but i think that , for me , the thing that that struck me was that uh you wan na get something back here , so here 's here 's an idea . uh what about it you skip all the all the really clever things , and just fed the log magnitude spectrum into this ? phd d : ah i 'm sorry . professor c : this is f you have the log magnitude spectrum , and you were looking at that and the difference between the filter bank and and c c computing the variance . </s>
<s> what did phd d think about voice-unvoice detection ? </s> phd d : the feature the input ? the inputs are the fifteen the fifteen uh bases feature . professor c : uh - huh . phd d : the with the new code . and the other three features are r , the variance of the difference between the two spectrum , professor c : uh - huh . phd d : the variance of the auto - correlation function , except the the first point , because half the height value is r - zero professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : and also r - zero , the first coefficient of the auto - correlation function . that is like the energy with these three feature , professor c : right . phd d : also these three feature . professor c : you would n't do like r - one over r - zero or something like that ? i mean usually for voiced - unvoiced you 'd do yeah , you 'd do something you 'd do energy phd d : yeah . professor c : but then you have something like spectral slope , which is you get like r - one ov over r - zero or something like that . phd d : uh yeah . phd e : what are the r 's ? professor c : r correlations . phd e : i 'm sorry i missed it . phd d : no , r c no . auto - correlation ? yes , yes , the variance of the auto - correlation function that uses that professor c : ye - well that 's the variance , but if you just say `` what is `` i mean , to first order , um yeah one of the differences between voiced , unvoiced and silence is energy . another one is but the other one is the spectral shape . phd d : yeah , i i 'll the spectral shape , professor c : yeah , and so r - one over r - zero is what you typically use for that . phd d : yeah . no , i do n't use that i ca n't use professor c : no , i 'm saying that 's what people us typically use . see , because it because this is this is just like a single number to tell you um `` does the spectrum look like that or does it look like that `` . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : oh . r r r - zero . professor c : right ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so if it 's if it 's um if it 's low energy uh but the but the spectrum looks like that or like that , it 's probably silence . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : uh but if it 's low energy and the spectrum looks like that , it 's probably unvoiced . phd d : yeah . professor c : so if you just if you just had to pick two features to determine voiced - unvoiced , you 'd pick something about the spectrum like uh r - one over r - zero , um and r - zero phd d : mm - hmm , ok . professor c : or i i you know you 'd have some other energy measure and like in the old days people did like uh zero crossing counts . phd d : yeah , yeah . professor c : right . s s phd d : well , i can also th use this . professor c : yeah . um , phd d : bec - because the result are a little bit better but we have in a point that everything is more or less the similar more or less similar . professor c : yeah . but um </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on support vector machines to map mfcc to phonological features </s> grad a : so for my class project i 'm um i 'm tinkering with uh support vector machines ? something that we learned in class , and uh um basically just another method for doing classification . and so i 'm gon na apply that to um compare it with the results by um king and taylor who did um these um using recurrent neural nets , they recognized um a set of phonological features um and made a mapping from the mfcc 's to these phonological features , so i 'm gon na do a similar thing with with support vector machines and see if phd e : so what 's the advantage of support vector machines ? what grad a : um . so , support vector machines are are good with dealing with a less amount of data and um so if you if you give it less data it still does a reasonable job in learning the the patterns . um and um professor c : i guess it yeah , they 're sort of succinct , and and they uh grad a : yeah . phd e : does there some kind of a distance metric that they use or how do they for cla what do they do for classification ? grad a : um . right . so , the the simple idea behind a support vector machine is um , you have you have this feature space , right ? and then it finds the optimal separating plane , um between these two different um classes , phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : and um and so um , what it i at the end of the day , what it actually does is it picks those examples of the features that are closest to the separating boundary , and remembers those phd e : mm - hmm . grad a : and and uses them to recreate the boundary for the test set . so , given these um these features , or or these these examples , um , critical examples , which they call support f support vectors , then um given a new example , if the new example falls um away from the boundary in one direction then it 's classified as being a part of this particular class and otherwise it 's the other class . phd e : so why save the examples ? why not just save what the boundary itself is ? grad a : mm - hmm . um . hmm . let 's see . uh . yeah , that 's a good question . i yeah . professor c : that 's another way of doing it . right ? so so it i mean i i guess it 's phd e : mmm . sort of an equivalent . professor c : you know , it it goes back to nearest - neighbor sort of thing , phd e : mm - hmm . professor c : right ? um , i i if is it eh w when is nearest - neighbor good ? well , nearest - neighbor good is good if you have lots and lots of examples . um but of course if you have lots and lots of examples , then it can take a while to to use nearest - neighbor . there 's lots of look ups . so a long time ago people talked about things where you would have uh a condensed nearest - neighbor , where you would you would you would pick out uh some representative examples which would uh be sufficient to represent to to correctly classify everything that came in . phd e : oh . mm - hmm . professor c : i i think s i think support vector stuff sort of goes back to to that kind of thing . um . phd e : i see . so rather than doing nearest neighbor where you compare to every single one , you just pick a few critical ones , and </s>
<s> what did the professor think about support vector machines for speech recognition ? </s> professor c : cuz actually mississippi state people did use support vector machines for uh uh speech recognition and they were using it to estimate probabilities . grad a : yeah . yeah . yeah , they they had a had a way to translate the distances into into probabilities with the with the simple um uh sigmoidal function . professor c : yeah , and d did they use sigmoid or a softmax type thing ? grad a : um yeah , professor c : and did n't they like exponentiate or something grad a : there 's some there 's like one over one plus the exponential or something like that . professor c : and then divide by the sum of them , or ? oh it i oh , so it is a sigmoidal . grad a : yeah . professor c : ok . alright . phd e : did the did they get good results with that ? professor c : i mean , they 're ok , i i do n't i do n't think they were earth earth shattering , but i think that uh this was a couple years ago , i remember them doing it at some meeting , and and um i do n't think people were very critical because it was interesting just to to try this and you know , it was the first time they tried it , so so the you know , the numbers were not incredibly good but there 's you know , it was th reasonable . phd e : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did grad a explain about his vectors for his support vector machine ? </s> phd e : so in your in in the thing that you 're doing , uh you have a vector of ones and zeros for each phone ? grad a : mm - hmm . uh , is this the class project , or ? phd e : yeah . grad a : ok . um phd e : is that what you 're grad a : right , { comment } right , right f so for every phone there is there is a um a vector of ones and zeros f uh corresponding to whether it exhibits a particular phonological feature or not . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . and so when you do your wh i 'm what is the task for the class project ? to come up with the phones ? or to come up with these vectors to see how closely they match the phones , grad a : oh . right , um to come up with a mapping from um mfcc 's or s some feature set , um to uh w to whether there 's existence of a particular phonological feature . phd e : or ? mm - hmm . grad a : and um yeah , basically it 's to learn a mapping from from the mfcc 's to uh phonological features . is it did that answer your question ? phd e : i think so . grad a : ok . c phd e : i guess i mean , uh i 'm not sure what you what you 're what you get out of your system . do you get out a uh a vector of these ones and zeros and then try to find the closest matching phoneme to that vector , grad a : mm - hmm . oh . phd e : or ? grad a : no , no . i 'm not i 'm not planning to do any any phoneme mapping yet . just it 's it 's basically it 's it 's really simple , basically a detection of phonological features . phd e : uh - huh . grad a : yeah , phd e : i see . grad a : and um cuz the uh so king and and taylor um did this with uh recurrent neural nets , phd e : yeah . grad a : and this i their their idea was to first find a mapping from mfcc 's to uh phonological features phd e : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : okay . good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee . we 've received apologies for absence from janet finch-saunders , and also from dawn bowden , and i 'd like to welcome huw irranca-davies , who is substituting for dawn bowden . can i ask members if there are any declarations of interest , please ? no . okay . we 'll move on , then , to our evidence session for our inquiry on school improvement and raising standards . i 'd like to welcome kirsty williams am , minister for education , and steve davies , director of education . thank you both for attending and for your detailed paper in advance of the meeting . we 've got a lot of ground to cover , so we 'll go straight into questions , if that 's okay . if i can just start by asking you : to what extent is the organisation for economic co-operation and development still involved in the welsh government 's school improvement journey ? kirsty williams am : first of all , can i thank the committee for their invitation this morning , and their interest in this particular area ? as you will be aware , on coming into office , the director and i agreed to ask the oecd to do a rapid review of the state of welsh education at the beginning of this assembly term . they did that , and the feedback from that work informed the publication and content of the national mission . i was very clear in the national mission that i would invite the oecd back to review our progress against that mission , and that has happened in the tail end of last year , and the oecd will publish their latest report on welsh education next month now , in march . so , the expectation is that the report will be published on 23 march , and my intention is to make a statement to the chamber on 24 march . the nature of that review is part of our ongoing development of self-evaluation . so , we talk a lot about self-evaluation in the school system . actually , the continuing relationship with oecd is about self-evaluation of the entirety of the system and welsh government . we do n't want to accept our own orthodoxy and just be in a bubble where we are constantly listening to ourselves and those people who might want to agree with us or tell us what we want to hear . so , the oecd is our best attempt of having some external verification of where we are . that 's a risk for ministers and for government , because we want them to give an honest evaluation of where we are , but that 's a really important tool for me , to ensure that we 're constantly testing ourselves . the nature of that review is that the oecd were able to talk to whoever they felt it was important to talk to , so that included practitioners on the ground , elements of the middle tier , as well as welsh government . and i know , chair—i hope you 'll be pleased to hear this—that the reports of this committee have formed parts of their review , looking at how the senedd itself has contributed to and has held the government to account . so , as i said , we expect our report to be published towards the end of march . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you , minister . can i ask about the powers under the school standards and organisation ( wales ) act 2013 , to ask you to tell us about the use of those powers either by welsh government or by local authorities , and how effective you feel that legislation has been ? kirsty williams am : okay . well , as you 'll be aware , local authorities have quite extensive powers of intervention in schools if they feel that is necessary . if i 'm honest , i think there 's a mixed picture , with some local authorities using those powers not on a regular basis , but obviously demonstrating a willingness to use those powers . there are other local authorities who do n't seem to have used them . since that legislation came into being , there have been a number of reasons , because of course a local authority has to give a reason for using those powers of intervention . they usually focus on standards , but sometimes they focus on a breakdown in governance arrangements , perhaps , or a failure or a breakdown in financial management . so , sometimes the budgetary issues trigger an intervention power . and the types of interventions that have been used have included , in some cases , appointing additional governors to governing bodies , or suspending a school 's delegated budget so the local authority takes on , then , financial control of that particular school , or sometimes applying to the welsh government to entirely replace a governing body and establish an intervention board . so , if i can give you an example of where that 's been used and has been successful , in flintshire . they applied to welsh government for two interim executive boards , in sir richard gwyn catholic high school and in ysgol trefonnen . they applied to us . those governing bodies were dissolved . the iebs were put in place and both of those schools , which had been in special measures , moved quite rapidly , actually , out of special measures . perhaps the most recent example of this is one that the chair will know very well in her own constituency of torfaen , in cwmbran high school , where torfaen has intervened in that case . the welsh government has not used those powers to date . my expectation always is that local authorities should be the first port of call , and i would encourage—and we always encourage—local authorities to take a proactive approach to intervention and to use those powers . but it 's my belief that it is they who are best placed initially to do that . lynne neagle am : thank you , minister . can i ask , then , about the national evaluation and improvement resource and how significant a role that will play in the raising of school standards , and how you feel it 's evolved since it was first conceived ? kirsty williams am : so , this brings us back to the principle of self-evaluation and something , if we 're honest , we 've not been very good at . if you look at a number of chief inspectors ' reports into the welsh education system , self-evaluation has always been identified as something that is missing or underdeveloped in our system to date , hence , then , the work to establish not a new approach , but a more robust approach to self-evaluation . we 've done that in conjunction , again , with the oecd , middle tier and practitioners . it 's really important , throughout the entirety of our reform journey that that 's done in co-construction , because we want this resource to be usable in schools . so , it 's all very well having a conceptual idea and people outside the classroom working on it , but if it 's of no practical use to a school leadership team , then we wo n't see the impact . so , it's— . we 're in phase 2 at the moment , where we 're doing— . so , the initial resource has been developed by the oecd , middle tier and practitioners . we 're in the testing phase at the moment and having it evaluated itself , with a view to introducing that resource across the system at the start of the new academic year , in september 2020 . i truly believe that , if we 're to make progress in welsh education , we have to develop the skills within our system to have robust self-evaluation . this resource gives us continuity of approach right the way across wales . so , it 's not left to an individual school to come up with a system ; it 's right the way across the system . my hope would be that those principles could then be applied to local education authorities , to regional school improvement services and welsh government as part of a whole-system approach to self-evaluation . i do n't know if there 's anything more you want to add , steve . steve davies : just to add that the other critical partners are estyn themselves . kirsty williams am : oh , yes , sorry . steve davies : so , they have played a critical role and , as we know , as the minister has said in the past , she may introduce policy and practice , but if estyn are part of it then schools , usually , because they recognise that it will be part of the inspection process—it gives it greater push and support around it . so , they 've been key players within it . kirsty williams am : and i think , if i just say as well , that the external perception of what that 's about is really important . it 's not a test of school readiness for reform , it is a genuine attempt for a school to evaluate their strengths , their weaknesses and where they need to go next . it 's not an estyn checklist . and because of the word 'toolkit'—the feedback was that it gave the impression of a checklist , 'just do this and check list ' . so , we 're actually going to change the name of that resource . so , it 'll be called the national evaluation and improvement resource , rather than the toolkit , because , as i said , the feedback was that 'toolkit ' gave the impression of a checklist exercise , and it 's got to be about more than that if it 's going to be meaningful . so , it 'll be changed to an 'improvement resource ' . lynne neagle am : okay . before i bring suzy in , can i just welcome siân gwenllian , who is joining us via video-conference in north wales ? morning , siân . sian gwenllian am : good morning . can you hear me ? lynne neagle am : we can , yes . we can hear you very nicely , thank you . sian gwenllian am : okay . thank you . lynne neagle am : suzy , you 've got a supplementary . suzy davies am : yes . only a very quick one . it 's about the development of the— kirsty williams am : the resource . suzy davies am : yes , the resource , thank you—about whether there were any conflicting ideas in the process of development that made it quite difficult to zone in on something that school leadership teams , in particular , could rely on . were there differences of opinion on what this should look like ? kirsty williams am : not that i 'm aware of from the practitioners that i 've spoken to who have been part of that . so , for instance , suzy , you will know the very small school of gladestry . the head of gladestry has been involved in this process , and she said that she 'd really enjoyed the process of working alongside estyn and the oecd as a school leader to be able to shape it . but i 'm not aware that there 's been conflict in that process . suzy davies am : i 'm not suggesting that there has been ; i 'm just interested as to how it had worked , that 's all . steve davies : chair , i think , inevitably , when you bring stakeholders together , they 're not going to be in total agreement as to how it 's going to work , and i think initially one of the challenges was having estyn there as part of the facilitation group . there are always some concerns that , actually , it 's coming from a to inspect , oral , judgmental tick box . so , we had some early day challenges where we had to convince—and , ultimately , estyn convinced them—that they were there to help and support as opposed to to inspect , and that the model that was developed , as the minister said , was not going to be a tick box , 'you are good at this part of self-evaluation ' , it was to build the skillsets up . suzy davies am : okay . so , it 's got their full confidence . kirsty williams am : yes , and i think again , also , what— . you know , four years into the job , what i 've reflected on as well is there is this sometimes a feeling out there that the minister says all the right stuff , but you 're not actually going to do it , so , when you talk about a new approach to doing things , you 're not actually serious about it . so , trying to build that confidence that we are serious about developing a new system around self-improvement , which is different from accountability—sometimes , the practitioners are like , 'oh , yes , we 've heard it all before but it never actually happens . ' and i think that 's been a part of the constant—not pressure , but the responsibility on welsh government is in following through . so , we said that we were going to do this in the national mission , and we are going to do it . i 'm really proud that there or thereabouts , a few months either way , we 've actually kept to the timetable as outlined in the national mission , and that helps build confidence within the sector that we are committed to that programme and we 're going to do what we say we 're going to do . suzy davies am : okay . thank you . lynne neagle am : and a final question from me : how effective do you think the investment in school standards has been in this assembly term , as opposed to the approach taken in the last assembly term , where there was the protection put in place for core school budgets ? kirsty williams am : well , i think , first of all , it 's important that , whilst this additional resource is specifically targeted at school standards , that is only a part of a much wider education budget , a budget that—you know—is incredibly complex . and so it is really challenging to be able to draw straight lines—you know , 'we did this and it 's resulted in that'—given that we 're looking at the entirety of school funding here . what 's been really important is that , if you drill down into what that money has been spent on , 50 per cent of it has been directed towards professional learning in one form or another to support our teaching professionals . and that 's been really important to me . i 've said it time and time again : an education system can not exceed the quality of the people who stand in front of our children day in , day out to work with them and teach them . therefore , that investment in staff and investment in the professional learning of our staff and support for them i think is making a difference already but , importantly , will continue to make a difference . but i think it is really challenging to be able to say , 'well , we spent this bit of money and it definitely led to that ' , because it 's such a complex picture . but that money , the way it 's been spent , has been driven by evidence . and , again , what we do know from international best practice , what do we know that works in driving up standards , and then how can we align the money that we 've got to supporting that ? and , as i said , 50 per cent of that money has gone directly to simply supporting the professional learning of those who work with our children . lynne neagle am : thank you very much . we 're going to talk now a bit about schools causing concern with questions from huw irranca-davies . huw irranca-davies am : thank you , chair . if i can , just first of all , zoom in on the way in which we actually decide which schools need what support . so , one of the interesting questions for us is how do we use the different systems out there . so , we 've got the school categorisation system , which we 're familiar with . we 've also got estyn inspection reports , then we 've got other intelligence , including local intelligence on the ground . how do you decide from that ? how is it decided what schools need support , need challenge ? how do we do that ? kirsty williams am : well , you 're right : what we have is a variety of ways in which we can identify schools that need support , or need to be challenged on their practice . but it 's important not to confuse them either . so , our primary route to doing this is our school categorisation system . sometimes , and perhaps this is inevitable— . that system is primarily there as a triage system around identifying where our resource should be spent . so , our school improvement service—it 's a risk-based approach , so they can evaluate where they need to put their time , effort and resource . sometimes , it 's used by other people for other things , but that is not its primary purpose ; its primary purpose there is not one of accountability , it is one of identifying risk and aligning that then to the support that is available . estyn—now that is part of that accountability system . that is our method of holding schools and their governing bodies to account for their practice and for the work that they do . both systems , of course , are evolving . so , how we do categorisation has changed over a period of time . the elements that go into making that judgment around the levels of support have changed , and , of course , the estyn inspection regime is also changing . at the moment , schools are only inspected once every seven years . we 're moving to a system where estyn will be more regularly in schools . so , they are two systems , but they are different and they look at different things . but our categorisation system is how we look for those ways of identifying support for schools . huw irranca-davies am : and you 've made , with feedback over the last few years , adjustments to the way that the categorisation system works . are you content with where it is now , or do you see more adjustments being made ? have you got things in front of you that you 're getting feedback on saying 'well , we need to tweak this again a little bit ' ? kirsty williams am : so , that system has evolved over time . so , when it started , it was just a tool around secondary schools . now , it covers the breadth of schools . initially , on coming into office , when i first came in , it was purely driven by data , and it was also done in quartiles . so , there was a certain number of schools that had to be in the bottom , which drove practitioners mad . they were like 'ah , every year , there 's going to be some of us that have to be in the bottom quartile ' , because of the way in which it was arranged , which seemed very unfair to them . so , we 've changed that . it 's not just purely driven on data now ; there are other judgments—the professional judgments of our challenge advisers are taken into account . and i would expect that situation to continue to evolve to align itself to our curriculum reform , and our changes in self-evaluation . so , it 's not a fixed point . i expect that that system will continue to evolve and change , so that it complements and assists in the reform journey as other parts of the system change . huw irranca-davies am : thanks for that . i think , for any impartial reader of the way that the trends have been going on this , there is some good news within that , in that , certainly , those schools that might have been identified as have been okay but coasting along , seem to be moving up the categories , although we still do have that— . well , it 's what the system is there to do , it 's to identify those schools that do need that additional support . and i like your analogy of a triage system—'you 're fit ; keep on doing what you 're doing and do it well ; you need more support , we 'll put the support in . ' but , can i turn to those schools that are causing significant concern , and how we identify them ? the estyn chief inspector 's conclusions at the end of the 2017-18 report that these schools are not being identified early enough—there 's a need to do something urgently about these concerns , particularly in secondary schools . have we addressed that ? are you content that we 've addressed that concern ? was he right ? kirsty williams am : no , the chief inspector is absolutely right—absolutely right . i 've got no beef with that statement at all . in some ways , when a school goes into special measures , in a way , that 's a failure of the system , because that should have been identified sooner . so i 've got no beef , as i said , with the chief inspector saying that . huw irranca-davies am : so just to ask , bearing in mind the earlier discussion we were having , how is it that we do n't identify those schools ? kirsty williams am : that 's it—you 're quite right . undoubtedly , what categorisation has done is led to a greater understanding , i think , on behalf of local education authorities ' and school improvement services ' knowledge about their schools . i think knowledge around schools is greatly enhanced by that process . but we are not there yet in terms of necessarily , then , moving those schools more quickly , once they 've been identified as needing the highest level of support to see improvement . and secondary schools is a particular , particular challenge . so you will have seen from the last publication of categorisation data that our primary sector continues to improve—more and more and more of our primary schools are in a green rating , which is very satisfying to me . but we have got more of an issue with secondary schools , and we have a particular issue with the same schools being identified in that level of categorisation . so even though we 've identified them as needing that extra help , they are not moving at pace away from that system . so there are two things that we are doing at the moment . the first is , we are , again , looking at different sets of data that can give us even earlier warning systems that things are going wrong in a school—and perhaps steve will explain later . for instance , staff sickness , and carefully monitoring staff sickness , because there is a direct correlation between high levels of staff sickness in a school and what is going on in the school . and steve can explain some of this work later . but we 're piloting a new approach to those schools that are causing concern . each local authority has been asked to identify two of their high schools that they are particularly worried about . and we have a new multi-agency approach , working with those schools to try and move them more forward . so it 's two from each region , a multi-agency panel , working with the school . and that multi-agency panel includes the school itself , the local authority , the regional consortia school improvement staff , estyn and welsh government—as a multi-agency panel to support improvement in that school . so , for instance , what would normally happen , estyn would come in , estyn would make a judgment on the school—requiring special measures or urgent improvement—and estyn would go away . they 'd go away for six months , and then they 'd come back in six months , and they 'd make another judgment , 'no , still not good enough ' , and disappear for six months . we 're saying—estyn and the welsh government have agreed that 's not the best approach ; estyn need to be part of the solution , rather than just coming and making a judgment . the initial feedback from this trial is very , very positive . actually , we 've had local authorities coming to us and saying , 'can we put more schools in ? rather than just having two of our high schools , can we engage more in this project and this pilot ? ' it 's being evaluated by cardiff metropolitan university and swansea university , so we 're having some academic overview to see , actually , does this approach work , can we evidence it—that it actually makes a difference ? and it 's actually—i 'd like to claim all the credit for it , but it 's actually not dissimilar to something that 's happening in scotland as well . but we knew that carrying on doing the same old thing clearly was n't moving these schools , we needed a new approach , and this is what we 're doing at the moment . so it 's relatively new , but the initial feedback is positive . steve , i do n't know— steve davies : i think your important point is about , 'what about the schools that are sliding in that direction ? ' and it 's bringing together what we know from estyn , but also , critically , local authorities have knowledge of their schools , and so do consortia . we 've got to be better at bringing those together . so , the minister gave the example of staff sickness—not always a trigger , but it 's one of those . if you look at movement of pupils out of a school , you can look at complaints , you can look at , actually , emerging increased use of hr resources that a school pulls on a local authority . none of these have been pushed up into the public domain , but they 're important antennae . the point the minister made about estyn as well is , historically , when they go into special measures , estyn , at the end of that week , call in , historically , either the region or the local authority , they will feed back to one of them , and then they go away . so , they are staying with it . so , we are brining together the knowledge . but , as the minister said , we want to keep a very clear distinction between the accountability and the transparency to the public , to parents , with the very detailed collective work of that multi-agency group to actually make that difference over time . huw irranca-davies am : okay . so , does that— . i 'd love to go further , but time is against us . does that deal with the issue of the schools that have been identified in those categories of requiring significant improvement and requiring special measures ? are those the ones that will be identified now , or is that above and beyond that again ? kirsty williams am : well , those are the ones that are primarily at the forefront of our minds , but this way of sharing data better , to step in earlier , is part of our attempt to address what the chief inspector says about stepping in early—not waiting until a school gets into special measures and a formal judgment from estyn of that , but actually using that intelligence to get support in there earlier . the three elements that that multi-agency approach look at are : what are the fundamentals that need addressing in this school ? what is the capacity of the school itself to be able to address those fundamentals ? and , what extra support needs to go into that senior management team and the governing body to get those fundamentals addressed ? and actually , what does sustainable improvement look like ? because , again , one of the issues , sometimes , that happens is , a school goes into a category with estyn , there 's a big push and a big , 'we must do something ' and the school comes out , but actually , that improvement is not sustainable . it 's the low-hanging fruit ; it 's the easy wins that have been achieved , but actually , perhaps some of the fundamental challenges underlying in that school have n't been addressed in that process . so , this is about what will sustainable improvement look like in six months , what 's it going to look like in 12 months and what 's it going to look like in 18 months . so , actually , a more strategic , longer term approach to real change in a school rather than , perhaps , some of the easy-to-fix items that make a school as if it 's doing better , but we really have n't tackled some of the underlying problems that make that school vulnerable to slipping back . does that make sense ? lynne neagle am : i 've got a couple of supplementaries on— . sorry ? kirsty williams am : does that make sense ? lynne neagle am : yes . we 've got a couple of supplementaries on this , first from suzy and then from siân . suzy davies am : thank you for that , chair . obviously , i 'm pleased to hear that this work is being done , but i 'm wondering— . what strikes me , in the recent past , at least , particularly as we 've got the usual suspects in this category— . i 've got to ask myself why it is that councils have been reluctant , perhaps , to step in with these schools earlier , particularly as they 've got consortia or middle-tier support as well . has there been a deficit in that space that has meant that councils do n't feel equipped to step in ? i just do n't really get it why they 've been reluctant to step in so far . if they 've been nervous about doing it , because they do n't feel that they 've got the tools to do it , then i think that 's pretty important , because as you were saying , we were talking about fundamentals ; surely , councils have been able to deal with fundamentals , and more importantly , consortia up until now . because , obviously , we 're asking these players to give us evidence at some point , so perhaps i 'd like to challenge them on how come we 're here now . kirsty williams am : and rightly so . suzy davies am : i 'm not laying this at your door . kirsty williams am : and rightly so . i guess each local authority will have an explanation for each individual school , i suspect . what 's crucial to me is that we have to— . i see our job as corralling the collective effort , and i think , for too long in the system , there has been a lack of co-ordination . so , this is about bringing and corralling a collective effort to address this , going forward , in more sustainable way . and i think it does come back to this issue around self-evaluation and a willingness to be open , honest and upfront about some of the challenges that we 've got . it 's not easy , is it ? it 's not easy to accept or to acknowledge sometimes when things are— suzy davies am : that they do n't know how to do this . kirsty williams am : well , that they 're going badly , or perhaps they do n't know exactly how to make the difference . so this approach , as i said , is a new way of trying to coral that collective effort across the board . but , i do n't know if steve—because you 've done other roles in the system , so perhaps you 've got a different insight . steve davies : i think you 're right . the variation across the country , across local authorities— . there are some local authorities that we 've worked with and we identify have taken the appropriate action . there are others that we 're working with , and yes , at its best , it 's done as a joint exercise where they use their regional school improvement service to help in the identification that there is a need for this . they take advice as to what the action is , whether it is , as the minister said , in the more significant areas , a board , or whether a warning notice comes in terms of standards or finance . so , we 're working with them and we 're working with the welsh local government association to share that practice . an example of that work is : we have done a development training session for cabinet members for education , and scrutiny leads for education across wales , and all 22 local authorities came to that and engaged with that . that was partly about self-improvement , but it was also about where significant issues arise , you have to constructively confront them . and that comes with what the region knows , and increasingly , we 're looking to have it consistently across 22 local authorities , so they are collecting all the additional data that we referred to earlier , so they can legitimately hold a mirror up and say , 'this is a real concern that we have . we 're not punishing you , but we 're registering the seriousness , and we want you to address it . ' and we 're making progress . i believe it 's genuinely more consistent now , but i 'd be lying if i said that there was consistency across all 22 local authorities . suzy davies am : thank you . i 'm conscious of time . lynne neagle am : okay . i 've got a supplementary from siân , then back to huw . sian gwenllian am : because you are moving to a more sophisticated approach in terms of identifying problems sooner , and so can offer the support earlier , is it time to think about moving away from the system of categorisation entirely ? that is , has the categorisation system reached the end of its usefulness , and is the multi-agency approach , this more sophisticated approach , a better way , ultimately , of being able to assist schools in moving forward ? kirsty williams am : i think , siân , as i said earlier , the categorisation system has evolved over time , and my expectation is that it will continue to evolve , because it has to be consistent with our overall approach to school improvement and raising standards . i expect oecd will have feedback for us on this important part of our system , and we 'll wait to see exactly what they say about it , but as i said in answer to huw irranca-davies earlier , i have n't got a closed mind ; we 've demonstrated over the last four years our willingness to change the system to make it a smarter system , and we will continue to keep that under review , as we move forward . if i could just go back briefly , it does n't sound like a very exciting thing , does it , when we say we 've been doing work with the wlga , with cabinet members , but also scrutiny , because that 's a really important part of the jigsaw as well , is actually local government scrutiny of the performance of your education portfolio holder and the leadership of your council . so this is about trying to up the ante on all sides , so that those issues around 'what are you doing in your local authority to use the powers that you have ? ' you know , sometimes , making sure that everybody in that authority—those in power and those who are there to hold those in power to account—have the necessary skills , knowledge and understanding to do that appropriately . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . huw , briefly . huw irranca-davies am : yes , briefly . i only have one final question . we 've talked a lot about early identification ; getting in there and then managing the improvement , this triage approach there , and then getting some grip of it , as well , in doing all of that . but my question now is on what we currently have . i wo n't touch on the primary schools , but let 's just look at secondary schools—11 per cent of secondary schools inspected in the last two academic years judged as unsatisfactory , needing urgent improvement . there will always be secondary schools and primary schools that hit moments of crisis for one reason or another , but 11 per cent to me , and to any layperson , would seem unreasonably high . are you— ? it would be daft to ask you if you 're content . what is a level that you would be content with of having schools in red category in wales ? kirsty williams am : you 're right . schools will need different levels of support at different points , and sometimes , it 's not because of a crisis . so , for instance , in my region , we do have an increase in the number of schools in the amber category . that 's because we 've seen in that particular region a number of headteachers retire because they 've reached retirement age , and there are new headteachers . well , that is a moment of risk in the school—when senior leadership changes . nothing else has changed in that school , but the simple fact that you have a new leader , sometimes in those cases it might be their first headship . that means that that school is going to need a little bit of extra support , so it is n't always just a crisis that needs extra support , there are just general things that happen in the life of a school that could lead to it . but you 're absolutely right—we have a particular challenge in the secondary sector where we have not been able to move individual schools forward at pace . and 11 per cent is not acceptable to me , huw , which is why we have introduced this new pilot to address those schools where , persistently , we have concerns about their ability to move forward . if we 'd have carried on doing the same thing , i suspect we would have just carried on getting the same result—hence the need for a new approach to those schools that are causing concern . steve davies : very briefly , the things we talked about earlier was how we measure the performance of schools , particularly at gcses , with a narrow focus . as was said earlier , some of these are the same groups—they trip in and then they do n't come out . our belief is , from research , that they concentrate on squeezing the pips to get the grades up in some small areas for a period of time , and you can do that by targeting and immersing them . estyn can tick the box to say your grades have got better , but we have n't handled the serious underpinning issues—leadership , teaching and learning , and bringing those together . as the minister said , what does sustainable improvement look like in six , 12 , 18 months ? it is n't just , as important as they are , getting those exam grades up a bit . they 're the fundamental— . and if they 're all agreed as the indicators at the outset , we 're more likely— . so it 's multi-agency ; it 's not a little activity , it 's a major strategy . lynne neagle am : thank you . hefin david has some questions now on the middle tier . hefin david am : i 'd like to consider the work of the consortia . in 2016 , your election manifesto very clearly said that you wanted to abolish regional consortia—three words in it . why have n't you done it ? kirsty williams am : because , given that you 're such a keen student of my manifesto , you 'll also know that— hefin david am : it was only three words . kirsty williams am : the liberal democrat manifesto also said that we supported major local government reform and a major reduction in the number of local government units . that has n't happened . i have to say genuinely , my experience over the last four years has proven to me the value of regional working , and in the absence of significant local government reform , i think it 's absolutely vital that we have scale in school improvement services—scale that i do n't think can be delivered across 22 individual local authorities . hefin david am : okay . so , if there was local government reform , you would abolish the consortia . kirsty williams am : i think if there was significant local government reform and we could demonstrate that those units had such a scale that they could perform the functions of regional consortia , then i think it would be inevitable that any education minister would look to see whether there was an opportunity to change structures . but in the absence of that , hefin , i have been absolutely convinced whilst doing this job that you need larger units to be able to carry out successful school improvement work , and i think it would be reckless to advocate the system going back to school improvement being organised in 22 different ways . hefin david am : okay . do you think that the work of the four consortia has been consistent and effective ? kirsty williams am : the school improvement services ? hefin david am : the four consortia . kirsty williams am : i think , as with individual local education authorities , there are some regional consortia services that have performed really highly—and that 's not me saying that , that 's estyn , but gives us assurance around that—and there are others that need to improve . i think the consortia themselves would admit that they , since their establishment , have found new ways of working . initially , they were very separate entities that did things their own way . increasingly , over recent years , we have seen those consortia working together on a national approach , but delivered on a regional basis . so i think they themselves have evolved over time . but we are constantly looking for optimum delivery from those particular organisations , but as i said , i think it would be absolutely reckless to go back to a situation where school improvement services were being delivered individually on 22 different bases . hefin david am : okay . i 'm happy to accept that you 've changed your opinion there ; that 's no problem at all . but with regard to the four consortia , and we 'll take education through regional working as an example , it does things differently to the other three . is that a cause for concern , or do you think that 's entirely appropriate ? kirsty williams am : well , erw does things differently , but then so does the education achievement service . eas is constituted in a different way to the central south consortium . what i 'm interested in is not necessarily how they are constituted and organised , i 'm interested in the effectiveness of that organisation to deliver for children and for teachers . erw has got particular challenges , and we continue to work with those in erw to address those , but increasingly , as i said , what we are seeing the regional consortia do is develop a national approach to school improvement services but deliver that on a regional basis so that there is greater consistency in terms of delivery . hefin david am : are you happy that , within the erw area , local authorities employ their own improvement advisers , rather than doing it in the way that the others do ? kirsty williams am : we have discussed this at length with them . my preference would be for school improvement officers to be employed in the centre , and we continue to have those discussions , but what 's really important to understand is that the regional consortia are not a beast of the government ; they are a beast of the local authorities that have worked together to create a school improvement service that meets their needs . so we ca n't impose that solution , and we continue to discuss with erw what is the optimal way , and they continue to discuss with their constituent local authorities about how that should be organised . hefin david am : are you concerned that neath port talbot have given notice that they want to withdraw from regional working ? kirsty williams am : i think it 's really disappointing that neath port talbot have published that notice . what 's important for me is to understand—not for me , it will be important for estyn . it will be really important for us to understand how neath port talbot intend to support their schools and their teachers if they were to withdraw from erw , especially at what is a very , very critical time . the regional consortia have a key role to play in supporting systems with the introduction of the curriculum . i would want to know from neath port talbot how they are going to do that without being part of that organisation . and , of course , there 's the added complexity that so much of our money is channelled through to schools via the regional consortia . so , i would want to understand from neath port talbot how they 're going to safeguard their schools and make sure that the children who are receiving their education in neath port talbot are not disadvantaged if they were to follow through on that decision . hefin david am : do you feel that it 's your role to intervene in that area and instruct neath port talbot and erw as to how they should resolve this issue ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , i would be seeking assurances— hefin david am : what does that mean , though , 'seeking assurances ' ? kirsty williams am : well , neath port talbot would need to demonstrate to me how they 're going to address these issues . if they 're not part of erw and their schools and their children are not going to be in receipt of the support from erw , as i said , especially at this critical time , how are they intending to do that ? i have n't seen those plans , but if they were to push forward and follow through on the notice , i would want to see them and i suspect estyn would want to see them also . hefin david am : okay , just last issue on that : you 're just waiting to see what neath port talbot do next , then . kirsty williams am : well , we have written to neath port talbot to ask them to demonstrate to us , if they were to pull out of erw , how they 're going to meet their functions . i have not heard back from them . hefin david am : steve , did you want to say something ? steve davies : obviously— [ inaudible . ] —that point . we wrote to them last friday , and we are awaiting their response now . hefin david am : okay . so , that 's where we are . okay . there was the document in 2015—'national model for regional working ' . is that the current document ? are there plans to change or update it , or is that exactly where we stand ? kirsty williams am : so , that is the current model . some work was undertaken in 2017 and 2018 to look to update that model and revise that model . some specific recommendations were put forward about additional services that could be organised on a regional basis ; primarily , that is a specialist human resources resource . we know that , because of austerity in some local authorities , hr departments have been really stretched . education hr is a specialist service , it 's not generic . it 's often a service that— . i see that as part of a school improvement service . support for governors also has been stretched within individual local authorities . so , a proposal was put forward to include specialist hr and governor support as part of the regional model . that was rejected by local government . our local authorities did not want to include that in the regional model . however , i must say , having presented that evidence , some of our local authorities , even though there was n't a national agreement to put that into the national model , have pooled their resources , and those services are being delivered and supported on a regional basis . so , for instance , the education achievement service now provide specialist hr resource , and eas and central south provide governor support . so , although we were n't successful in persuading local government to adopt a new national model , local authorities in those areas saw the value of moving that way . hefin david am : so , with that in mind , and perhaps i 'll put this to steve davies , everything the minister just said , and also the line in the document— 'the implementation of this model will change over time'— is it time to go back to that document and review it from a procedural point of view ? steve davies : i do n't think it 's necessarily timely to go back and have a complete review of it . but , certainly , we are in ongoing discussions with the welsh local government association , both in terms of work with local authorities , and the type of intervention in schools . so , we keep a constant watch as to which areas that we believe we could develop further . we are not currently intending to do a wholesale review of that . as the minister touched on earlier , there is some work to get consistency across the current area , particularly , as we just mentioned , in relation to erw work . so , it 's getting a consistent approach at that level , and sharing the practice . i think what is emerging , as the minister said , is that there are two regions who have already made this shift to pool services . i think the two other regions are seeing and will see the benefits of that , and instead of forcing it through , we 'd expect that to evolve . but we 're not , at this stage , looking to a wholesale review of the national model . lynne neagle am : hefin . hefin david am : and professor dylan jones 's strategic delivery group seems to have had quite a warm welcome in the sector . is it fair to say that ? kirsty williams am : i believe so . i 'm very grateful to dylan for his hard work and his skill in chairing that group , and i think it 's been welcomed by all , so that we can get that clarity and consistency about the roles and responsibilities of the individual partners and players in the middle tier . hefin david am : and when will the work be completed , and what will the outcomes be ? kirsty williams am : well , the group is currently engaging with steve and other officials on agreeing a plan , but also , crucially , that plan is there to support the successful implementation of the curriculum , so that we 're very clear about the roles and responsibilities in the middle tier in this crucial phase following the publication . we have to move now from the publication into a relentless focus on implementation . the history of devolution is full of fantastic documents , and , shall i say , patchy implementation . the work that has gone into that curriculum is too important for implementation to be left to chance . it 's too important . it 's too good to be left to chance . so , everything now is a relentless focus on successful implementation . hefin david am : yes , but i 'm thinking that the strategic delivery is reviewing the role of the middle tier . so , you know , what do we expect to see from it , notwithstanding the kind of softly , softly approach that you 've already talked about ? steve davies : it was set up , actually , about 18 months ago—just under . it was set up to build collective efficacy , because what people out there are seeing is that there 's a confusion of roles , in what the regions are doing , and it was building that collective efficacy so everyone was behind the wheel . so , they 've been looking at who is doing what for the last 18 months , and exploring and making some changes themselves . it 's not just what they do with government or what they do with each other ; it 's just happened that it 's timely , because one of the key bits of feedback we believe we will get from the organisation for economic co-operation and development is we have had co-construction , we 'd had collective effort , but we need to do more , particularly within the middle tier . this is not controlled by government , it is arm 's length from government , and it 's not their job to get it ready for the new curriculum—that 's a key part of it . this group will have an ongoing role ; it 's not a task and finish group . it does feed back in to the minister but there 's no formal mechanism by which they have to report . hefin david am : okay , that 's very clear . lynne neagle am : okay . i 've got supplementaries from suzy , then siân . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : briefly , please . suzy davies am : i think this is a really interesting evidence session . what i 'm about to say , i say it even though i 'm a big localist : it all seems to be heading in one direction of a national service . is the strategic group even thinking in these terms , obviously building in local accountability ? but it 'll just make it so much easier in terms of accountability and consistency to monitor what the middle tier does , if it 's a national service , like the national adoption service . local delivery , national service—is it heading in that direction ? kirsty williams am : that 's not the intention of setting the group up . as steve just said , i receive feedback from dylan , because i meet dylan in this particular capacity on a planned basis . he is there to give me advice on the middle tier , and to give me advice on what he thinks welsh government needs to do . but i 've not had that conversation with him about a national service . suzy davies am : okay . well , thank you for that . sian gwenllian am : what i was going to raise has been answered already , that is that , from what i can see , the work that professor dylan jones is doing has evolved somewhat . i felt that , originally , the idea was to look at the middle tier in terms of any kind of duplication that was happening , and where it was possible to tighten up the people going into schools from different directions . but it appears that it has evolved to be something that 's much more than that , and that it is placing a focus on the curriculum and other aspects of the educational system . is there a risk for them to lose focus in that sense ? kirsty williams am : no , not at all . i think they are very , very clear around establishing roles and responsibilities for each of the players and to be very clear about the expectations that each part of the middle tier can have of each other , as to what they can expect from their partners in the middle tier . and absolutely , it is about making sure that there is n't duplication , that people are n't second-guessing each other 's work , and there are clear demarcations about who does what in the system , and , as i said , knowing that you can rely on your colleague in the middle tier to do the bit that they are responsible for . so , i do n't think there 's a question of it losing focus . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've got a lot of areas to cover so we are going to have to pick up our pace a bit . the next questions are from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : thinking about you as a minister trying to see what the long-term trends are with regard to raising standards and improving educational attainment , is that difficult , because the performance measures have changed , have n't they ? we ca n't compare like-for-like now , because of the changes that have been made in the way that performance is measured . so , to begin with , is that a challenge , to see whether progress has been made ? and secondly , what evidence do you as minister use to look at the long-term trends ? kirsty williams am : the first thing to say , with regard to changes to performance measures—you 're right that change to those does make it , in some cases , more difficult to look at trends over a period of time . but those changes are made for really good reasons . if we change a performance measure , it is done to ensure that it is in the best interests of learners . and i think the best interests of learners always trumps the ease of comparison . i understand that , for researchers and for opposition members , even for ministers , it would be simpler to have the same set of measures over a period of time . but if we know that those things are driving behaviours that are unhelpful to children , and not in the best interests of children , then we have to change them , even thought that then does create challenges in different areas . with regard to what do we look at , there are a number of ways that we gain data and look at data in the system : everything from the categorisation system we spoke of earlier , and trends in categorisation ; we look at estyn reports ; we continue to look at examination results . but we 're trying to develop a broader range of data and statistics that give us a whole picture of the education performance , rather than narrowing down on one simple indicator that tells you one thing but does n't tell you everything . but i do n't know , steve , if there 's anything further that you 'd like to add . steve davies : it 's going back to what the member raised earlier , in terms of the range of things that you look at—things that can make a difference . so , when estyn review schools , or we 're looking to develop national frameworks for things like mental health and well-being , which look to the practice that enables raising standards , it 's collecting that information , both at a national level , through the annual review of estyn , as well as our engagement with regions and local authorities . so , it 's looking at the evidence base that goes beyond , but impacts on data . and , inevitably , we will use the programme for international student assessment , and any other external assessments that come through organisations like the oecd . and even where we 've changed the performance measures , we still have , at national level , the ongoing data . so , if you looked at level 2 plus , we believe it is important that children get five good gcses—for higher education and for employment . so , we 've not lost sight of those at a national level—we 're not using them as a narrow set of performance measures for individual schools . kirsty williams am : so , if we look at—level 2 plus is a good example . we know that a relentless focus on that single measure , as a way of judging the system , leads to a set of behaviours in schools . it narrows the focus onto a certain part of the cohort , it narrows the curriculum , when we know that children— sian gwenllian am : i 'm not challenging the fact that you 've changed the performance measures—i understand that , and having a broader way of looking is better in the long run . i 'm just saying , because there 's been this change , it makes it more of a challenge—whilst accepting why you 've made the changes , but it does present more of a challenge , presumably , because you have to look at more indicators , and take evidence from different places . but i take it that you 're confident that the trajectory is going in the right way . kirsty williams am : yes , i think we are making improvements . but you 're right : it does make it more challenging . but those changes are being made for the right reasons , as i said , whether that be at level 2 plus . look at english literature . i understand why perhaps a performance measure around english was introduced , but the effect of that was that significant numbers of children—and , it must be said , usually children who are entitled to free school meals—were suddenly not sitting english literature gcse . we 've changed that performance measure , and guess what ? last year , we saw a significant increase in the number of children that were sitting english literature gcse . for standards of literacy and oracy , i think studying literature is really , really important , before we even get into the joy of introducing children to the written word and the love of reading . so , we make changes . yes , it causes challenges , but we 're making those changes because we believe that they are in the best interest of children , and that has to trump ease of comparison . sian gwenllian am : why have you decided to ask the consortia , estyn and so on not to report on local data or regional level data ? how do we then come to conclusions about what is working if it is n't presented on a local authority and regional basis ? kirsty williams am : well , i think the thing to say about the communications from welsh government , estyn , and the wlga is it 's not about not communicating the data , it 's about challenging people on how that data should be used . so , the data is still available , but it 's a challenge to them about how to use that data . so , for instance , when we 're presenting data that compares local authority to local authority , you could have a local authority that says , 'there we go , i 'm above the national average . i do n't need to worry about the education in my local authority , because i 'm above the average , or i 'm better than my neighbour . ' that does n't necessarily mean that everything is right in your local education authority . perhaps your children should be doing even better than what you 're presented with . so , actually , it 's not about hiding data ; it 's about how you use the data appropriately . and sometimes , how we were presenting data in the past was lulling some people into a false sense of security about the performance of their system . so , it 's about how you use data , and that 's what the communication from welsh government and the wlga and estyn was about : think very carefully about this data and what it 's telling you about your system , and do n't be lulled into a false sense of security that you may be doing brilliantly . or , perhaps , looking at your data , you may think , 'oh , my goodness me , we 're not doing very well at all ' , but , actually , more careful consideration of that might show that your school 's impact on those children is really , really a positive one . so , you 've got to use that data in the context . so , it 's not about less data . if anything , it 's about more data and , crucially for me , it 's about more intelligent use and interrogation of that data , about truly what it 's telling you about your system . sian gwenllian am : but again , the welsh government— . you have continued to publish the local and regional level data . so , does n't that contradict what you 've been telling the consortia and everyone else ? kirsty williams am : no , not at all . as i said , we 're not in the business of trying to hide data—i believe absolutely in full transparency . and in terms of level 2 data , i think i 'm not moving away from the point that i think it 's really important that more and more children get five really good gcses . i think it 's important for their life chances . it is about how that data is used , not about hiding data or making that data not available . steve davies : can i , very briefly— ? we did n't just send a letter out collectively . we 've now carried out training jointly with wlga and estyn on how to use that data . so , it 's not just looking where your la is ; it 's also not looking at whether your school 's better than average for the authority . and it is well received , and it should broaden the approach of scrutiny committees to beyond what historically was , if i 'm honest , looking at the league table for their authority or looking at the league table of local authorities . it 's not that they should n't be looking at that , but they need to dig much , much deeper underneath it . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 're going to go on now to suzy . i 'm going to appeal for brief questions and brief answers so that we can cover the rest of the questions . suzy davies am : i 'll shorten these questions , okay . we know why you got rid of the old measures . we 've got interim measures now . what are they telling you about the success you 've had in trying to avoid the bad behaviour ? short answers . kirsty williams am : it 's impossible . [ laughter . ] i think it 's inevitable : whatever kind of measures we put in place , people will look to maximise their success in those measures , and i do n't think we 'll ever come up with a system where those measures are absolutely perfect . what 's really important to me is that we 're really , really , really challenging schools to look at the performance of all of their children , rather than just at a very , very narrow cohort around those c/d boundaries , which we knew was detrimental , potentially , to more able and talented children and really pushing those bs to as and those as to a*s , and children for whom actually just getting in to school on a daily basis is an achievement , and the school has done well to provide that . so , our new capped 9 makes sure that there is breadth across a range of subjects , rather than just focusing on a narrower and narrower bunch of subject opportunities for children , and our new third-third-third system enables schools to really look at their performance . so if their capped 9 score is high , what 's driving that ? is it because the bottom third of the cohort is doing really well , and the impact on those children is above and beyond what could be expected , but actually , you 're not doing very well for your more able and talented ; you 're not pushing them on ? alternatively , maybe your capped 9 score is because your mat children are doing incredibly well , but actually , you 're not really making the progress for the middle tier of those children . it allows us to have a greater focus on the performance of our fsm children—where they really are within that system . so , it 's a much more granular— . and crucially for me , it looks at the impact for every child , because every child has to matter in the system , and what we had before was a narrowing of curriculum choice and a narrowing on a certain cohort of children . suzy davies am : so are the permanent measures likely to be pretty similar to what you 've got now ? because the research—i do n't know if the research is complete yet . when will you be publishing the new permanent evaluation ? kirsty williams am : sue , you 're right : they 're interim measures at the moment , and we will need to make sure that the performance measures are aligned to the new curriculum . that , potentially , of course— . because wales 's review of qualifications potentially has an impact on what those finally will look like , so that work is ongoing at the moment , and unless steve can tell me off the top of his head when we expect that to be completed by , i will send you a note . but they 're interim at the moment , because we need to align them to the new curriculum . suzy davies am : i think we understand that . [ inaudible . ] —date . steve davies : no , no . this is not a quick fix . this is a two to three-year research base . the new qualifications for the new curriculum will not start until 2025 . they have to be in place for 2022 . there 's a three-year roll on . i would expect the broad structure of the interim measures to continue over that time . there will be some tweaks for consistency . it 's what 's wrapped around those interim measures that i touched on earlier : the other evidence that we bring to bear about the effectiveness of a school , but we do want to say to schools that on the whole , broadly speaking , the interim measures will carry on for two , three years . suzy davies am : okay , and the reason i asked that is right at the beginning of this session , the minister said to the chair that this £100 million that 's going into school improvements will be going into things that work . we need some evidence that the interim measures are going to work as well , so when are they going to be evaluated ? steve davies : well , we 've only just used them for one year . suzy davies am : that 's what i 'm asking you . steve davies : we 've signalled that they 're only going to be in place for three years . we are carrying out our own review of the impact of those and that 's been built in , but i expect the oecd report—because it is an extensive report—to give us feedback on how those things are working now , and some steer , as they did with the last report , as to the direction we would want to go into . kirsty williams am : and what i 'm also interested in is those performance management measures around schools . yes , they 're about outcomes for children , but actually are about a broader suite of behaviours within that school , so , yes , qualifications and grades are an important part of a performance measure , but actually , i have other expectations of schools , above and beyond simply qualifications . and so , we would want our permanent set of performance measures to look at a wider set of behaviours within a school , and i think because— . exams are important—of course they are , qualifications are important—but the way in which those schools achieve those results are also important . suzy davies am : okay . thank you . lynne neagle am : would you anticipate that including well-being , then ? suzy davies am : in a whole-school approach . kirsty williams am : i absolutely—and we need to find a way of how we can truly measure that . sometimes , children 's well-being is influenced by lots of things outside the control of a school . so , i do n't want schools to be held accountable for things that they have no control over , because of the circumstances in which a child may be living . but , absolutely : well-being and how the culture of the school addresses well-being is really important to me . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . suzy . move on to pisa , please . suzy davies am : how useful is pisa for you in helping school improvement ? i know that it 's not always the thing that you enjoy watching or looking out for . but , genuinely , how useful is it ? kirsty williams am : it is one of a range of tools that we need to look at . siân , quite rightly , talked about consistency . pisa is one thing where there is a level of consistency , so it will continue to be , i think , an important part of how we test how our system is doing . suzy davies am : we know that you are a little bit encouraged , but we are not out of the woods yet . you mentioned this in plenary when we talked about pisa . how confident are you that we are on track for meeting these targets that were set before your time , or do you think that having those targets is helpful ? is it setting up aspirations that are incapable of being met within a period of time ? kirsty williams am : well , those long-term targets of a score around 500 are part of 'our national mission ' , and we have to keep the pressure on to strive . they are testing , but we have to keep the pressure on to strive to reach them . in some cases , i can be quite encouraged . if we look at reading scores for girls , we are almost there , but that just demonstrates what a journey we 've got with our boys to address . for me , one of the ways in which we will reach those targets and achieve them is further progress on our more able and talented children . although we are now performing at an oecd average , i will be the first person to admit that , although we have seen an improvement in the higher level skills of our more able and talented children , we do not perform at an oecd average with regard to those level 6 and level 5 scores . suzy davies am : even within the uk , really , we are quite far behind . kirsty williams am : yes . so , i think that 's where we really need to push on . that 's one of the reasons why we have introduced a more able and talented budget to support that , and our seren programme , which is delivering fantastic results post-16 . that 's why we 're introducing the principles of seren earlier into children 's careers , bringing it down from year 9 upwards , to be able to drive improvements . so , i think that that 's the area that we are particularly keen to work on : making sure that more of our children perform at the oecd average at level 5 and level 6 . clearly , we 've got more work to do on reading . we are working with southern ireland , who have consistently done well with reading scores , to look to see what lessons we can learn to press on with there with reading . suzy davies am : okay . my final question on this . you recognise it as a priority , particularly for boys . does that mean that the focus will then drift slightly from maths , where there has been some success ; and drift from science , where the encouragement of more people to take gcse science has reduced the number of high-level passes ? kirsty williams am : first , we have to have a system that is capable of doing all of those of things at the same time . we ca n't accept a system that says , 'well , we can do a bit over here , but that means we have to— . ' we have to have a system , suzy , that can drive improvements at all levels . that 's my expectation . suzy davies am : the balloon needs to be bigger not just squeezing it at one end . kirsty williams am : absolutely , yes . that 's my expectation of this system . you have to deliver across all of these . we have seen some progress . as i 've said , it 's far from perfect , and we 've got more work to do , but we have to deliver across all three domains , as we did last time . and i 'm not going to make any apologies for changing the performance indicators around science . it was a travesty that there were children who never had the opportunity to sit a science gcse . we do n't have to make assumptions about the nature of many , many , many of those children . we have seen a significant increase in the number of children who are having the opportunity to sit gcse science and who are passing gcse science . so , i 'm not going to make any apologies about that . one of the reasons that i suspect we have ended up with poor science scores is because of the previous policy around science entries and science qualifications . again , one of the reasons that we have changed it is n't just solely because we need to do better in pisa , but i think that by changing it , we will see an impact on pisa . suzy davies am : okay . thank you for that . lynne neagle am : the final set of questions is from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : i just want to discuss an issue that i know is important to you , namely closing the attainment gap between pupils who are eligible for free school meals and those who are not eligible for free school meals . unfortunately , the problem persists , does n't it ? kirsty williams am : yes . we are not where we need to be in terms of the performance , not only of our children on free school meals , but the performance of our looked-after children , and the performance of some children from some ethnic minority groups . so , we will continue to look to support those learners in a variety of ways , again looking to amend our practice on the basis of evidence that is given to us from our experts who are there to advise us . there is clearly more that we need to do . there has been some progress in some areas , but it is not where i would want it to be . sian gwenllian am : but , this is despite the fact that there is £475 million that has been invested in the pupil development grant , for this exact purpose of closing the attainment gap . but , the problem persists , and in some places , it 's deteriorating . kirsty williams am : well , i think that , as i said , i am not shying away from any assumption or declaration that we need to do better . but , i do think that we need to acknowledge where progress has been made . if we go back to look at what pisa has said about our performance , the pisa results show that pupils in wales are relatively more able to overcome the disadvantage of their background than is the average in oecd countries . so , our children are doing better in that , and that gives me encouragement . that 's not me saying that ; that 's there . if we look at pupils who are eligible for free school meals , they do score below their better-off counterparts in pisa by some 34 points . the gap in england is 40 points . so , again , that gap is smaller here in wales . if we look at basic levels of qualifications , back in— . it 's difficult to make comparisons because of all the reasons we have talked about , but if we look back to 2006 and we look at the very basic level of qualifications , which is a level 1 qualification , we have seen a jump from 9.4 per cent of children in 2006 achieving a level 1 qualification to over 18 per cent . so , there is progress . there is evidence that the resources that we are spending are making a difference . but , clearly , we are not where we would want to be . that 's why we will continue to focus those resources on those children , where we need it . but , we need to do that earlier . sticking plasters in years 10 and 11 are n't going to cut it . we need to get this right for those children , the moment that they come into a nursery and the moment that they start their formal education at the age of 5 . that 's how we are going to make the difference . providing catch-up , of course , we need to do for those kids ; we ca n't throw those year 10s and year 11s to the wind . we have to support those children . but , we will see real improvement when we get in there earlier . sian gwenllian am : but i 'm sure that that is a disappointment to you , because it has been a personal priority for you as well . in terms of minority ethnic learners , while there are some groups within that category who are achieving , there is underachievement happening here as well , is n't there ? it 's not consistent across the minority ethnic group . is that something that you will be focusing upon ? kirsty williams am : yes , and that 's why we have committed to maintaining a ring-fenced grant to local authorities of some £10 million , to support education of our minority ethnic children . but , again , you are right , you are absolutely right , siân . we need a much more sophisticated conversation about what is really going on in attainment across minority ethnic groups so that we can best target that resource and have a conversation about what the differences are . you are absolutely correct : there is a real mixed picture . if we look at black welsh girls entitled to free school meals , they perform almost at the national average for all children—not fsm children ; the national average for all children . black welsh boys do n't , but neither do white welsh boys . so , there is a really complex picture here , and i really welcome a debate about acknowledging the various levels of performance of bame children , and where the gaps in performance lie . you are quite right : it is a complex picture in the system . i 'm committed to continuing to support educational opportunities , and that 's why have ring-fenced the minority ethnic achievement grant . there are some interesting data there . some children are doing very , very well ; others , we need to concentrate on . lynne neagle am : siân , this will need to be the last question , i 'm afraid . sian gwenllian am : sorry ? lynne neagle am : this is going to have to be the last question . sian gwenllian am : the last question . fine . in terms of looked-after children , which is one of the groups where attainment is n't where we would like it to be , there was some improvement in 2016 at key stage 4 , but it has been disappointing . do we know what 's been happening in 2019 ? kirsty williams am : the 2019 data will be published next month , and there has been significant activity . you are right : in recent years , the data have been poor and not where we would want it to be . that 's why we have had a reformed approach to pdg lac ; the employment of pdg lac co-ordinators across the regions . we 've identified new resource in the new financial year to test new approaches , so , for instance , virtual school approaches , where we know , in other systems , that has worked . but , we expect the next set of data around the performance of this particular group of learners in march . sian gwenllian am : okay , and you hope to see progress . kirsty williams am : i do n't want to speculate , but i hope so . sian gwenllian am : thank you . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about schools causing concern with questions from irranca-davies . </s> huw irranca-davies am : thank you , chair . if i can , just first of all , zoom in on the way in which we actually decide which schools need what support . so , one of the interesting questions for us is how do we use the different systems out there . so , we 've got the school categorisation system , which we 're familiar with . we 've also got estyn inspection reports , then we 've got other intelligence , including local intelligence on the ground . how do you decide from that ? how is it decided what schools need support , need challenge ? how do we do that ? kirsty williams am : well , you 're right : what we have is a variety of ways in which we can identify schools that need support , or need to be challenged on their practice . but it 's important not to confuse them either . so , our primary route to doing this is our school categorisation system . sometimes , and perhaps this is inevitable— . that system is primarily there as a triage system around identifying where our resource should be spent . so , our school improvement service—it 's a risk-based approach , so they can evaluate where they need to put their time , effort and resource . sometimes , it 's used by other people for other things , but that is not its primary purpose ; its primary purpose there is not one of accountability , it is one of identifying risk and aligning that then to the support that is available . estyn—now that is part of that accountability system . that is our method of holding schools and their governing bodies to account for their practice and for the work that they do . both systems , of course , are evolving . so , how we do categorisation has changed over a period of time . the elements that go into making that judgment around the levels of support have changed , and , of course , the estyn inspection regime is also changing . at the moment , schools are only inspected once every seven years . we 're moving to a system where estyn will be more regularly in schools . so , they are two systems , but they are different and they look at different things . but our categorisation system is how we look for those ways of identifying support for schools . huw irranca-davies am : and you 've made , with feedback over the last few years , adjustments to the way that the categorisation system works . are you content with where it is now , or do you see more adjustments being made ? have you got things in front of you that you 're getting feedback on saying 'well , we need to tweak this again a little bit ' ? kirsty williams am : so , that system has evolved over time . so , when it started , it was just a tool around secondary schools . now , it covers the breadth of schools . initially , on coming into office , when i first came in , it was purely driven by data , and it was also done in quartiles . so , there was a certain number of schools that had to be in the bottom , which drove practitioners mad . they were like 'ah , every year , there 's going to be some of us that have to be in the bottom quartile ' , because of the way in which it was arranged , which seemed very unfair to them . so , we 've changed that . it 's not just purely driven on data now ; there are other judgments—the professional judgments of our challenge advisers are taken into account . and i would expect that situation to continue to evolve to align itself to our curriculum reform , and our changes in self-evaluation . so , it 's not a fixed point . i expect that that system will continue to evolve and change , so that it complements and assists in the reform journey as other parts of the system change . huw irranca-davies am : thanks for that . i think , for any impartial reader of the way that the trends have been going on this , there is some good news within that , in that , certainly , those schools that might have been identified as have been okay but coasting along , seem to be moving up the categories , although we still do have that— . well , it 's what the system is there to do , it 's to identify those schools that do need that additional support . and i like your analogy of a triage system—'you 're fit ; keep on doing what you 're doing and do it well ; you need more support , we 'll put the support in . ' but , can i turn to those schools that are causing significant concern , and how we identify them ? the estyn chief inspector 's conclusions at the end of the 2017-18 report that these schools are not being identified early enough—there 's a need to do something urgently about these concerns , particularly in secondary schools . have we addressed that ? are you content that we 've addressed that concern ? was he right ? kirsty williams am : no , the chief inspector is absolutely right—absolutely right . i 've got no beef with that statement at all . in some ways , when a school goes into special measures , in a way , that 's a failure of the system , because that should have been identified sooner . so i 've got no beef , as i said , with the chief inspector saying that . huw irranca-davies am : so just to ask , bearing in mind the earlier discussion we were having , how is it that we do n't identify those schools ? kirsty williams am : that 's it—you 're quite right . undoubtedly , what categorisation has done is led to a greater understanding , i think , on behalf of local education authorities ' and school improvement services ' knowledge about their schools . i think knowledge around schools is greatly enhanced by that process . but we are not there yet in terms of necessarily , then , moving those schools more quickly , once they 've been identified as needing the highest level of support to see improvement . and secondary schools is a particular , particular challenge . so you will have seen from the last publication of categorisation data that our primary sector continues to improve—more and more and more of our primary schools are in a green rating , which is very satisfying to me . but we have got more of an issue with secondary schools , and we have a particular issue with the same schools being identified in that level of categorisation . so even though we 've identified them as needing that extra help , they are not moving at pace away from that system . so there are two things that we are doing at the moment . the first is , we are , again , looking at different sets of data that can give us even earlier warning systems that things are going wrong in a school—and perhaps steve will explain later . for instance , staff sickness , and carefully monitoring staff sickness , because there is a direct correlation between high levels of staff sickness in a school and what is going on in the school . and steve can explain some of this work later . but we 're piloting a new approach to those schools that are causing concern . each local authority has been asked to identify two of their high schools that they are particularly worried about . and we have a new multi-agency approach , working with those schools to try and move them more forward . so it 's two from each region , a multi-agency panel , working with the school . and that multi-agency panel includes the school itself , the local authority , the regional consortia school improvement staff , estyn and welsh government—as a multi-agency panel to support improvement in that school . so , for instance , what would normally happen , estyn would come in , estyn would make a judgment on the school—requiring special measures or urgent improvement—and estyn would go away . they 'd go away for six months , and then they 'd come back in six months , and they 'd make another judgment , 'no , still not good enough ' , and disappear for six months . we 're saying—estyn and the welsh government have agreed that 's not the best approach ; estyn need to be part of the solution , rather than just coming and making a judgment . the initial feedback from this trial is very , very positive . actually , we 've had local authorities coming to us and saying , 'can we put more schools in ? rather than just having two of our high schools , can we engage more in this project and this pilot ? ' it 's being evaluated by cardiff metropolitan university and swansea university , so we 're having some academic overview to see , actually , does this approach work , can we evidence it—that it actually makes a difference ? and it 's actually—i 'd like to claim all the credit for it , but it 's actually not dissimilar to something that 's happening in scotland as well . but we knew that carrying on doing the same old thing clearly was n't moving these schools , we needed a new approach , and this is what we 're doing at the moment . so it 's relatively new , but the initial feedback is positive . steve , i do n't know— steve davies : i think your important point is about , 'what about the schools that are sliding in that direction ? ' and it 's bringing together what we know from estyn , but also , critically , local authorities have knowledge of their schools , and so do consortia . we 've got to be better at bringing those together . so , the minister gave the example of staff sickness—not always a trigger , but it 's one of those . if you look at movement of pupils out of a school , you can look at complaints , you can look at , actually , emerging increased use of hr resources that a school pulls on a local authority . none of these have been pushed up into the public domain , but they 're important antennae . the point the minister made about estyn as well is , historically , when they go into special measures , estyn , at the end of that week , call in , historically , either the region or the local authority , they will feed back to one of them , and then they go away . so , they are staying with it . so , we are brining together the knowledge . but , as the minister said , we want to keep a very clear distinction between the accountability and the transparency to the public , to parents , with the very detailed collective work of that multi-agency group to actually make that difference over time . huw irranca-davies am : okay . so , does that— . i 'd love to go further , but time is against us . does that deal with the issue of the schools that have been identified in those categories of requiring significant improvement and requiring special measures ? are those the ones that will be identified now , or is that above and beyond that again ? kirsty williams am : well , those are the ones that are primarily at the forefront of our minds , but this way of sharing data better , to step in earlier , is part of our attempt to address what the chief inspector says about stepping in early—not waiting until a school gets into special measures and a formal judgment from estyn of that , but actually using that intelligence to get support in there earlier . the three elements that that multi-agency approach look at are : what are the fundamentals that need addressing in this school ? what is the capacity of the school itself to be able to address those fundamentals ? and , what extra support needs to go into that senior management team and the governing body to get those fundamentals addressed ? and actually , what does sustainable improvement look like ? because , again , one of the issues , sometimes , that happens is , a school goes into a category with estyn , there 's a big push and a big , 'we must do something ' and the school comes out , but actually , that improvement is not sustainable . it 's the low-hanging fruit ; it 's the easy wins that have been achieved , but actually , perhaps some of the fundamental challenges underlying in that school have n't been addressed in that process . so , this is about what will sustainable improvement look like in six months , what 's it going to look like in 12 months and what 's it going to look like in 18 months . so , actually , a more strategic , longer term approach to real change in a school rather than , perhaps , some of the easy-to-fix items that make a school as if it 's doing better , but we really have n't tackled some of the underlying problems that make that school vulnerable to slipping back . does that make sense ? lynne neagle am : i 've got a couple of supplementaries on— . sorry ? kirsty williams am : does that make sense ? lynne neagle am : yes . we 've got a couple of supplementaries on this , first from suzy and then from siân . suzy davies am : thank you for that , chair . obviously , i 'm pleased to hear that this work is being done , but i 'm wondering— . what strikes me , in the recent past , at least , particularly as we 've got the usual suspects in this category— . i 've got to ask myself why it is that councils have been reluctant , perhaps , to step in with these schools earlier , particularly as they 've got consortia or middle-tier support as well . has there been a deficit in that space that has meant that councils do n't feel equipped to step in ? i just do n't really get it why they 've been reluctant to step in so far . if they 've been nervous about doing it , because they do n't feel that they 've got the tools to do it , then i think that 's pretty important , because as you were saying , we were talking about fundamentals ; surely , councils have been able to deal with fundamentals , and more importantly , consortia up until now . because , obviously , we 're asking these players to give us evidence at some point , so perhaps i 'd like to challenge them on how come we 're here now . kirsty williams am : and rightly so . suzy davies am : i 'm not laying this at your door . kirsty williams am : and rightly so . i guess each local authority will have an explanation for each individual school , i suspect . what 's crucial to me is that we have to— . i see our job as corralling the collective effort , and i think , for too long in the system , there has been a lack of co-ordination . so , this is about bringing and corralling a collective effort to address this , going forward , in more sustainable way . and i think it does come back to this issue around self-evaluation and a willingness to be open , honest and upfront about some of the challenges that we 've got . it 's not easy , is it ? it 's not easy to accept or to acknowledge sometimes when things are— suzy davies am : that they do n't know how to do this . kirsty williams am : well , that they 're going badly , or perhaps they do n't know exactly how to make the difference . so this approach , as i said , is a new way of trying to coral that collective effort across the board . but , i do n't know if steve—because you 've done other roles in the system , so perhaps you 've got a different insight . steve davies : i think you 're right . the variation across the country , across local authorities— . there are some local authorities that we 've worked with and we identify have taken the appropriate action . there are others that we 're working with , and yes , at its best , it 's done as a joint exercise where they use their regional school improvement service to help in the identification that there is a need for this . they take advice as to what the action is , whether it is , as the minister said , in the more significant areas , a board , or whether a warning notice comes in terms of standards or finance . so , we 're working with them and we 're working with the welsh local government association to share that practice . an example of that work is : we have done a development training session for cabinet members for education , and scrutiny leads for education across wales , and all 22 local authorities came to that and engaged with that . that was partly about self-improvement , but it was also about where significant issues arise , you have to constructively confront them . and that comes with what the region knows , and increasingly , we 're looking to have it consistently across 22 local authorities , so they are collecting all the additional data that we referred to earlier , so they can legitimately hold a mirror up and say , 'this is a real concern that we have . we 're not punishing you , but we 're registering the seriousness , and we want you to address it . ' and we 're making progress . i believe it 's genuinely more consistent now , but i 'd be lying if i said that there was consistency across all 22 local authorities . suzy davies am : thank you . i 'm conscious of time . lynne neagle am : okay . i 've got a supplementary from siân , then back to huw . sian gwenllian am : because you are moving to a more sophisticated approach in terms of identifying problems sooner , and so can offer the support earlier , is it time to think about moving away from the system of categorisation entirely ? that is , has the categorisation system reached the end of its usefulness , and is the multi-agency approach , this more sophisticated approach , a better way , ultimately , of being able to assist schools in moving forward ? kirsty williams am : i think , siân , as i said earlier , the categorisation system has evolved over time , and my expectation is that it will continue to evolve , because it has to be consistent with our overall approach to school improvement and raising standards . i expect oecd will have feedback for us on this important part of our system , and we 'll wait to see exactly what they say about it , but as i said in answer to huw irranca-davies earlier , i have n't got a closed mind ; we 've demonstrated over the last four years our willingness to change the system to make it a smarter system , and we will continue to keep that under review , as we move forward . if i could just go back briefly , it does n't sound like a very exciting thing , does it , when we say we 've been doing work with the wlga , with cabinet members , but also scrutiny , because that 's a really important part of the jigsaw as well , is actually local government scrutiny of the performance of your education portfolio holder and the leadership of your council . so this is about trying to up the ante on all sides , so that those issues around 'what are you doing in your local authority to use the powers that you have ? ' you know , sometimes , making sure that everybody in that authority—those in power and those who are there to hold those in power to account—have the necessary skills , knowledge and understanding to do that appropriately . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . huw , briefly . huw irranca-davies am : yes , briefly . i only have one final question . we 've talked a lot about early identification ; getting in there and then managing the improvement , this triage approach there , and then getting some grip of it , as well , in doing all of that . but my question now is on what we currently have . i wo n't touch on the primary schools , but let 's just look at secondary schools—11 per cent of secondary schools inspected in the last two academic years judged as unsatisfactory , needing urgent improvement . there will always be secondary schools and primary schools that hit moments of crisis for one reason or another , but 11 per cent to me , and to any layperson , would seem unreasonably high . are you— ? it would be daft to ask you if you 're content . what is a level that you would be content with of having schools in red category in wales ? kirsty williams am : you 're right . schools will need different levels of support at different points , and sometimes , it 's not because of a crisis . so , for instance , in my region , we do have an increase in the number of schools in the amber category . that 's because we 've seen in that particular region a number of headteachers retire because they 've reached retirement age , and there are new headteachers . well , that is a moment of risk in the school—when senior leadership changes . nothing else has changed in that school , but the simple fact that you have a new leader , sometimes in those cases it might be their first headship . that means that that school is going to need a little bit of extra support , so it is n't always just a crisis that needs extra support , there are just general things that happen in the life of a school that could lead to it . but you 're absolutely right—we have a particular challenge in the secondary sector where we have not been able to move individual schools forward at pace . and 11 per cent is not acceptable to me , huw , which is why we have introduced this new pilot to address those schools where , persistently , we have concerns about their ability to move forward . if we 'd have carried on doing the same thing , i suspect we would have just carried on getting the same result—hence the need for a new approach to those schools that are causing concern . steve davies : very briefly , the things we talked about earlier was how we measure the performance of schools , particularly at gcses , with a narrow focus . as was said earlier , some of these are the same groups—they trip in and then they do n't come out . our belief is , from research , that they concentrate on squeezing the pips to get the grades up in some small areas for a period of time , and you can do that by targeting and immersing them . estyn can tick the box to say your grades have got better , but we have n't handled the serious underpinning issues—leadership , teaching and learning , and bringing those together . as the minister said , what does sustainable improvement look like in six , 12 , 18 months ? it is n't just , as important as they are , getting those exam grades up a bit . they 're the fundamental— . and if they 're all agreed as the indicators at the outset , we 're more likely— . so it 's multi-agency ; it 's not a little activity , it 's a major strategy . </s>
<s> what was the method of holding schools and their governing bodies to account for their practice and for the work that they did ? </s> huw irranca-davies am : thank you , chair . if i can , just first of all , zoom in on the way in which we actually decide which schools need what support . so , one of the interesting questions for us is how do we use the different systems out there . so , we 've got the school categorisation system , which we 're familiar with . we 've also got estyn inspection reports , then we 've got other intelligence , including local intelligence on the ground . how do you decide from that ? how is it decided what schools need support , need challenge ? how do we do that ? </s>
<s> how could the schools that are causing significant concern be identified ? </s> huw irranca-davies am : thanks for that . i think , for any impartial reader of the way that the trends have been going on this , there is some good news within that , in that , certainly , those schools that might have been identified as have been okay but coasting along , seem to be moving up the categories , although we still do have that— . well , it 's what the system is there to do , it 's to identify those schools that do need that additional support . and i like your analogy of a triage system—'you 're fit ; keep on doing what you 're doing and do it well ; you need more support , we 'll put the support in . ' but , can i turn to those schools that are causing significant concern , and how we identify them ? the estyn chief inspector 's conclusions at the end of the 2017-18 report that these schools are not being identified early enough—there 's a need to do something urgently about these concerns , particularly in secondary schools . have we addressed that ? are you content that we 've addressed that concern ? was he right ? kirsty williams am : no , the chief inspector is absolutely right—absolutely right . i 've got no beef with that statement at all . in some ways , when a school goes into special measures , in a way , that 's a failure of the system , because that should have been identified sooner . so i 've got no beef , as i said , with the chief inspector saying that . huw irranca-davies am : so just to ask , bearing in mind the earlier discussion we were having , how is it that we do n't identify those schools ? kirsty williams am : that 's it—you 're quite right . undoubtedly , what categorisation has done is led to a greater understanding , i think , on behalf of local education authorities ' and school improvement services ' knowledge about their schools . i think knowledge around schools is greatly enhanced by that process . but we are not there yet in terms of necessarily , then , moving those schools more quickly , once they 've been identified as needing the highest level of support to see improvement . and secondary schools is a particular , particular challenge . so you will have seen from the last publication of categorisation data that our primary sector continues to improve—more and more and more of our primary schools are in a green rating , which is very satisfying to me . but we have got more of an issue with secondary schools , and we have a particular issue with the same schools being identified in that level of categorisation . so even though we 've identified them as needing that extra help , they are not moving at pace away from that system . so there are two things that we are doing at the moment . the first is , we are , again , looking at different sets of data that can give us even earlier warning systems that things are going wrong in a school—and perhaps steve will explain later . for instance , staff sickness , and carefully monitoring staff sickness , because there is a direct correlation between high levels of staff sickness in a school and what is going on in the school . and steve can explain some of this work later . but we 're piloting a new approach to those schools that are causing concern . each local authority has been asked to identify two of their high schools that they are particularly worried about . and we have a new multi-agency approach , working with those schools to try and move them more forward . so it 's two from each region , a multi-agency panel , working with the school . and that multi-agency panel includes the school itself , the local authority , the regional consortia school improvement staff , estyn and welsh government—as a multi-agency panel to support improvement in that school . so , for instance , what would normally happen , estyn would come in , estyn would make a judgment on the school—requiring special measures or urgent improvement—and estyn would go away . they 'd go away for six months , and then they 'd come back in six months , and they 'd make another judgment , 'no , still not good enough ' , and disappear for six months . we 're saying—estyn and the welsh government have agreed that 's not the best approach ; estyn need to be part of the solution , rather than just coming and making a judgment . the initial feedback from this trial is very , very positive . actually , we 've had local authorities coming to us and saying , 'can we put more schools in ? rather than just having two of our high schools , can we engage more in this project and this pilot ? ' it 's being evaluated by cardiff metropolitan university and swansea university , so we 're having some academic overview to see , actually , does this approach work , can we evidence it—that it actually makes a difference ? and it 's actually—i 'd like to claim all the credit for it , but it 's actually not dissimilar to something that 's happening in scotland as well . but we knew that carrying on doing the same old thing clearly was n't moving these schools , we needed a new approach , and this is what we 're doing at the moment . so it 's relatively new , but the initial feedback is positive . steve , i do n't know— </s>
<s> what was a level that kirsty would be content with of having schools in red category in wales ? </s> huw irranca-davies am : yes , briefly . i only have one final question . we 've talked a lot about early identification ; getting in there and then managing the improvement , this triage approach there , and then getting some grip of it , as well , in doing all of that . but my question now is on what we currently have . i wo n't touch on the primary schools , but let 's just look at secondary schools—11 per cent of secondary schools inspected in the last two academic years judged as unsatisfactory , needing urgent improvement . there will always be secondary schools and primary schools that hit moments of crisis for one reason or another , but 11 per cent to me , and to any layperson , would seem unreasonably high . are you— ? it would be daft to ask you if you 're content . what is a level that you would be content with of having schools in red category in wales ? kirsty williams am : you 're right . schools will need different levels of support at different points , and sometimes , it 's not because of a crisis . so , for instance , in my region , we do have an increase in the number of schools in the amber category . that 's because we 've seen in that particular region a number of headteachers retire because they 've reached retirement age , and there are new headteachers . well , that is a moment of risk in the school—when senior leadership changes . nothing else has changed in that school , but the simple fact that you have a new leader , sometimes in those cases it might be their first headship . that means that that school is going to need a little bit of extra support , so it is n't always just a crisis that needs extra support , there are just general things that happen in the life of a school that could lead to it . but you 're absolutely right—we have a particular challenge in the secondary sector where we have not been able to move individual schools forward at pace . and 11 per cent is not acceptable to me , huw , which is why we have introduced this new pilot to address those schools where , persistently , we have concerns about their ability to move forward . if we 'd have carried on doing the same thing , i suspect we would have just carried on getting the same result—hence the need for a new approach to those schools that are causing concern . steve davies : very briefly , the things we talked about earlier was how we measure the performance of schools , particularly at gcses , with a narrow focus . as was said earlier , some of these are the same groups—they trip in and then they do n't come out . our belief is , from research , that they concentrate on squeezing the pips to get the grades up in some small areas for a period of time , and you can do that by targeting and immersing them . estyn can tick the box to say your grades have got better , but we have n't handled the serious underpinning issues—leadership , teaching and learning , and bringing those together . as the minister said , what does sustainable improvement look like in six , 12 , 18 months ? it is n't just , as important as they are , getting those exam grades up a bit . they 're the fundamental— . and if they 're all agreed as the indicators at the outset , we 're more likely— . so it 's multi-agency ; it 's not a little activity , it 's a major strategy . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the attitudes and opinions on the work of consortia . </s> hefin david am : i 'd like to consider the work of the consortia . in 2016 , your election manifesto very clearly said that you wanted to abolish regional consortia—three words in it . why have n't you done it ? kirsty williams am : because , given that you 're such a keen student of my manifesto , you 'll also know that— hefin david am : it was only three words . kirsty williams am : the liberal democrat manifesto also said that we supported major local government reform and a major reduction in the number of local government units . that has n't happened . i have to say genuinely , my experience over the last four years has proven to me the value of regional working , and in the absence of significant local government reform , i think it 's absolutely vital that we have scale in school improvement services—scale that i do n't think can be delivered across 22 individual local authorities . hefin david am : okay . so , if there was local government reform , you would abolish the consortia . kirsty williams am : i think if there was significant local government reform and we could demonstrate that those units had such a scale that they could perform the functions of regional consortia , then i think it would be inevitable that any education minister would look to see whether there was an opportunity to change structures . but in the absence of that , hefin , i have been absolutely convinced whilst doing this job that you need larger units to be able to carry out successful school improvement work , and i think it would be reckless to advocate the system going back to school improvement being organised in 22 different ways . hefin david am : okay . do you think that the work of the four consortia has been consistent and effective ? kirsty williams am : the school improvement services ? hefin david am : the four consortia . kirsty williams am : i think , as with individual local education authorities , there are some regional consortia services that have performed really highly—and that 's not me saying that , that 's estyn , but gives us assurance around that—and there are others that need to improve . i think the consortia themselves would admit that they , since their establishment , have found new ways of working . initially , they were very separate entities that did things their own way . increasingly , over recent years , we have seen those consortia working together on a national approach , but delivered on a regional basis . so i think they themselves have evolved over time . but we are constantly looking for optimum delivery from those particular organisations , but as i said , i think it would be absolutely reckless to go back to a situation where school improvement services were being delivered individually on 22 different bases . hefin david am : okay . i 'm happy to accept that you 've changed your opinion there ; that 's no problem at all . but with regard to the four consortia , and we 'll take education through regional working as an example , it does things differently to the other three . is that a cause for concern , or do you think that 's entirely appropriate ? kirsty williams am : well , erw does things differently , but then so does the education achievement service . eas is constituted in a different way to the central south consortium . what i 'm interested in is not necessarily how they are constituted and organised , i 'm interested in the effectiveness of that organisation to deliver for children and for teachers . erw has got particular challenges , and we continue to work with those in erw to address those , but increasingly , as i said , what we are seeing the regional consortia do is develop a national approach to school improvement services but deliver that on a regional basis so that there is greater consistency in terms of delivery . hefin david am : are you happy that , within the erw area , local authorities employ their own improvement advisers , rather than doing it in the way that the others do ? kirsty williams am : we have discussed this at length with them . my preference would be for school improvement officers to be employed in the centre , and we continue to have those discussions , but what 's really important to understand is that the regional consortia are not a beast of the government ; they are a beast of the local authorities that have worked together to create a school improvement service that meets their needs . so we ca n't impose that solution , and we continue to discuss with erw what is the optimal way , and they continue to discuss with their constituent local authorities about how that should be organised . hefin david am : are you concerned that neath port talbot have given notice that they want to withdraw from regional working ? kirsty williams am : i think it 's really disappointing that neath port talbot have published that notice . what 's important for me is to understand—not for me , it will be important for estyn . it will be really important for us to understand how neath port talbot intend to support their schools and their teachers if they were to withdraw from erw , especially at what is a very , very critical time . the regional consortia have a key role to play in supporting systems with the introduction of the curriculum . i would want to know from neath port talbot how they are going to do that without being part of that organisation . and , of course , there 's the added complexity that so much of our money is channelled through to schools via the regional consortia . so , i would want to understand from neath port talbot how they 're going to safeguard their schools and make sure that the children who are receiving their education in neath port talbot are not disadvantaged if they were to follow through on that decision . hefin david am : do you feel that it 's your role to intervene in that area and instruct neath port talbot and erw as to how they should resolve this issue ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , i would be seeking assurances— hefin david am : what does that mean , though , 'seeking assurances ' ? kirsty williams am : well , neath port talbot would need to demonstrate to me how they 're going to address these issues . if they 're not part of erw and their schools and their children are not going to be in receipt of the support from erw , as i said , especially at this critical time , how are they intending to do that ? i have n't seen those plans , but if they were to push forward and follow through on the notice , i would want to see them and i suspect estyn would want to see them also . hefin david am : okay , just last issue on that : you 're just waiting to see what neath port talbot do next , then . kirsty williams am : well , we have written to neath port talbot to ask them to demonstrate to us , if they were to pull out of erw , how they 're going to meet their functions . i have not heard back from them . hefin david am : steve , did you want to say something ? steve davies : obviously— [ inaudible . ] —that point . we wrote to them last friday , and we are awaiting their response now . </s>
<s> why did they take education through regional working as an example ? </s> hefin david am : okay . i 'm happy to accept that you 've changed your opinion there ; that 's no problem at all . but with regard to the four consortia , and we 'll take education through regional working as an example , it does things differently to the other three . is that a cause for concern , or do you think that 's entirely appropriate ? kirsty williams am : well , erw does things differently , but then so does the education achievement service . eas is constituted in a different way to the central south consortium . what i 'm interested in is not necessarily how they are constituted and organised , i 'm interested in the effectiveness of that organisation to deliver for children and for teachers . erw has got particular challenges , and we continue to work with those in erw to address those , but increasingly , as i said , what we are seeing the regional consortia do is develop a national approach to school improvement services but deliver that on a regional basis so that there is greater consistency in terms of delivery . hefin david am : are you happy that , within the erw area , local authorities employ their own improvement advisers , rather than doing it in the way that the others do ? </s>
<s> what 's their opinion in intervening neath port talbot and erw about addressing the issue of safeguarding their schools ? </s> kirsty williams am : we have discussed this at length with them . my preference would be for school improvement officers to be employed in the centre , and we continue to have those discussions , but what 's really important to understand is that the regional consortia are not a beast of the government ; they are a beast of the local authorities that have worked together to create a school improvement service that meets their needs . so we ca n't impose that solution , and we continue to discuss with erw what is the optimal way , and they continue to discuss with their constituent local authorities about how that should be organised . hefin david am : are you concerned that neath port talbot have given notice that they want to withdraw from regional working ? </s>
<s> what 's their role in intervening neath port talbot and erw about addressing the issue of safeguarding their schools ? </s> hefin david am : do you feel that it 's your role to intervene in that area and instruct neath port talbot and erw as to how they should resolve this issue ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , i would be seeking assurances— hefin david am : what does that mean , though , 'seeking assurances ' ? kirsty williams am : well , neath port talbot would need to demonstrate to me how they 're going to address these issues . if they 're not part of erw and their schools and their children are not going to be in receipt of the support from erw , as i said , especially at this critical time , how are they intending to do that ? i have n't seen those plans , but if they were to push forward and follow through on the notice , i would want to see them and i suspect estyn would want to see them also . hefin david am : okay , just last issue on that : you 're just waiting to see what neath port talbot do next , then . kirsty williams am : well , we have written to neath port talbot to ask them to demonstrate to us , if they were to pull out of erw , how they 're going to meet their functions . i have not heard back from them . hefin david am : steve , did you want to say something ? steve davies : obviously— [ inaudible . ] —that point . we wrote to them last friday , and we are awaiting their response now . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about actions towards the document in 2015- '' national model for regional working '' . </s> kirsty williams am : so , that is the current model . some work was undertaken in 2017 and 2018 to look to update that model and revise that model . some specific recommendations were put forward about additional services that could be organised on a regional basis ; primarily , that is a specialist human resources resource . we know that , because of austerity in some local authorities , hr departments have been really stretched . education hr is a specialist service , it 's not generic . it 's often a service that— . i see that as part of a school improvement service . support for governors also has been stretched within individual local authorities . so , a proposal was put forward to include specialist hr and governor support as part of the regional model . that was rejected by local government . our local authorities did not want to include that in the regional model . however , i must say , having presented that evidence , some of our local authorities , even though there was n't a national agreement to put that into the national model , have pooled their resources , and those services are being delivered and supported on a regional basis . so , for instance , the education achievement service now provide specialist hr resource , and eas and central south provide governor support . so , although we were n't successful in persuading local government to adopt a new national model , local authorities in those areas saw the value of moving that way . hefin david am : so , with that in mind , and perhaps i 'll put this to steve davies , everything the minister just said , and also the line in the document— 'the implementation of this model will change over time'— is it time to go back to that document and review it from a procedural point of view ? steve davies : i do n't think it 's necessarily timely to go back and have a complete review of it . but , certainly , we are in ongoing discussions with the welsh local government association , both in terms of work with local authorities , and the type of intervention in schools . so , we keep a constant watch as to which areas that we believe we could develop further . we are not currently intending to do a wholesale review of that . as the minister touched on earlier , there is some work to get consistency across the current area , particularly , as we just mentioned , in relation to erw work . so , it 's getting a consistent approach at that level , and sharing the practice . i think what is emerging , as the minister said , is that there are two regions who have already made this shift to pool services . i think the two other regions are seeing and will see the benefits of that , and instead of forcing it through , we 'd expect that to evolve . but we 're not , at this stage , looking to a wholesale review of the national model . lynne neagle am : hefin . hefin david am : and professor dylan jones 's strategic delivery group seems to have had quite a warm welcome in the sector . is it fair to say that ? kirsty williams am : i believe so . i 'm very grateful to dylan for his hard work and his skill in chairing that group , and i think it 's been welcomed by all , so that we can get that clarity and consistency about the roles and responsibilities of the individual partners and players in the middle tier . hefin david am : and when will the work be completed , and what will the outcomes be ? kirsty williams am : well , the group is currently engaging with steve and other officials on agreeing a plan , but also , crucially , that plan is there to support the successful implementation of the curriculum , so that we 're very clear about the roles and responsibilities in the middle tier in this crucial phase following the publication . we have to move now from the publication into a relentless focus on implementation . the history of devolution is full of fantastic documents , and , shall i say , patchy implementation . the work that has gone into that curriculum is too important for implementation to be left to chance . it 's too important . it 's too good to be left to chance . so , everything now is a relentless focus on successful implementation . hefin david am : yes , but i 'm thinking that the strategic delivery is reviewing the role of the middle tier . so , you know , what do we expect to see from it , notwithstanding the kind of softly , softly approach that you 've already talked about ? steve davies : it was set up , actually , about 18 months ago—just under . it was set up to build collective efficacy , because what people out there are seeing is that there 's a confusion of roles , in what the regions are doing , and it was building that collective efficacy so everyone was behind the wheel . so , they 've been looking at who is doing what for the last 18 months , and exploring and making some changes themselves . it 's not just what they do with government or what they do with each other ; it 's just happened that it 's timely , because one of the key bits of feedback we believe we will get from the organisation for economic co-operation and development is we have had co-construction , we 'd had collective effort , but we need to do more , particularly within the middle tier . this is not controlled by government , it is arm 's length from government , and it 's not their job to get it ready for the new curriculum—that 's a key part of it . this group will have an ongoing role ; it 's not a task and finish group . it does feed back in to the minister but there 's no formal mechanism by which they have to report . hefin david am : okay , that 's very clear . lynne neagle am : okay . i 've got supplementaries from suzy , then siân . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : briefly , please . suzy davies am : i think this is a really interesting evidence session . what i 'm about to say , i say it even though i 'm a big localist : it all seems to be heading in one direction of a national service . is the strategic group even thinking in these terms , obviously building in local accountability ? but it 'll just make it so much easier in terms of accountability and consistency to monitor what the middle tier does , if it 's a national service , like the national adoption service . local delivery , national service—is it heading in that direction ? kirsty williams am : that 's not the intention of setting the group up . as steve just said , i receive feedback from dylan , because i meet dylan in this particular capacity on a planned basis . he is there to give me advice on the middle tier , and to give me advice on what he thinks welsh government needs to do . but i 've not had that conversation with him about a national service . suzy davies am : okay . well , thank you for that . sian gwenllian am : what i was going to raise has been answered already , that is that , from what i can see , the work that professor dylan jones is doing has evolved somewhat . i felt that , originally , the idea was to look at the middle tier in terms of any kind of duplication that was happening , and where it was possible to tighten up the people going into schools from different directions . but it appears that it has evolved to be something that 's much more than that , and that it is placing a focus on the curriculum and other aspects of the educational system . is there a risk for them to lose focus in that sense ? kirsty williams am : no , not at all . i think they are very , very clear around establishing roles and responsibilities for each of the players and to be very clear about the expectations that each part of the middle tier can have of each other , as to what they can expect from their partners in the middle tier . and absolutely , it is about making sure that there is n't duplication , that people are n't second-guessing each other 's work , and there are clear demarcations about who does what in the system , and , as i said , knowing that you can rely on your colleague in the middle tier to do the bit that they are responsible for . so , i do n't think there 's a question of it losing focus . </s>
<s> when would the work of implementation be completed ? </s> hefin david am : and when will the work be completed , and what will the outcomes be ? </s>
<s> what should be expected from reviewing the role of the middle tier ? </s> hefin david am : yes , but i 'm thinking that the strategic delivery is reviewing the role of the middle tier . so , you know , what do we expect to see from it , notwithstanding the kind of softly , softly approach that you 've already talked about ? steve davies : it was set up , actually , about 18 months ago—just under . it was set up to build collective efficacy , because what people out there are seeing is that there 's a confusion of roles , in what the regions are doing , and it was building that collective efficacy so everyone was behind the wheel . so , they 've been looking at who is doing what for the last 18 months , and exploring and making some changes themselves . it 's not just what they do with government or what they do with each other ; it 's just happened that it 's timely , because one of the key bits of feedback we believe we will get from the organisation for economic co-operation and development is we have had co-construction , we 'd had collective effort , but we need to do more , particularly within the middle tier . this is not controlled by government , it is arm 's length from government , and it 's not their job to get it ready for the new curriculum—that 's a key part of it . this group will have an ongoing role ; it 's not a task and finish group . it does feed back in to the minister but there 's no formal mechanism by which they have to report . hefin david am : okay , that 's very clear . lynne neagle am : okay . i 've got supplementaries from suzy , then siân . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . </s>
<s> what 's their opinion about the risk of losing focus ? </s> sian gwenllian am : what i was going to raise has been answered already , that is that , from what i can see , the work that professor dylan jones is doing has evolved somewhat . i felt that , originally , the idea was to look at the middle tier in terms of any kind of duplication that was happening , and where it was possible to tighten up the people going into schools from different directions . but it appears that it has evolved to be something that 's much more than that , and that it is placing a focus on the curriculum and other aspects of the educational system . is there a risk for them to lose focus in that sense ? kirsty williams am : no , not at all . i think they are very , very clear around establishing roles and responsibilities for each of the players and to be very clear about the expectations that each part of the middle tier can have of each other , as to what they can expect from their partners in the middle tier . and absolutely , it is about making sure that there is n't duplication , that people are n't second-guessing each other 's work , and there are clear demarcations about who does what in the system , and , as i said , knowing that you can rely on your colleague in the middle tier to do the bit that they are responsible for . so , i do n't think there 's a question of it losing focus . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the long-term trends with regard to raising standards and improving educational attainment . </s> sian gwenllian am : thinking about you as a minister trying to see what the long-term trends are with regard to raising standards and improving educational attainment , is that difficult , because the performance measures have changed , have n't they ? we ca n't compare like-for-like now , because of the changes that have been made in the way that performance is measured . so , to begin with , is that a challenge , to see whether progress has been made ? and secondly , what evidence do you as minister use to look at the long-term trends ? kirsty williams am : the first thing to say , with regard to changes to performance measures—you 're right that change to those does make it , in some cases , more difficult to look at trends over a period of time . but those changes are made for really good reasons . if we change a performance measure , it is done to ensure that it is in the best interests of learners . and i think the best interests of learners always trumps the ease of comparison . i understand that , for researchers and for opposition members , even for ministers , it would be simpler to have the same set of measures over a period of time . but if we know that those things are driving behaviours that are unhelpful to children , and not in the best interests of children , then we have to change them , even thought that then does create challenges in different areas . with regard to what do we look at , there are a number of ways that we gain data and look at data in the system : everything from the categorisation system we spoke of earlier , and trends in categorisation ; we look at estyn reports ; we continue to look at examination results . but we 're trying to develop a broader range of data and statistics that give us a whole picture of the education performance , rather than narrowing down on one simple indicator that tells you one thing but does n't tell you everything . but i do n't know , steve , if there 's anything further that you 'd like to add . steve davies : it 's going back to what the member raised earlier , in terms of the range of things that you look at—things that can make a difference . so , when estyn review schools , or we 're looking to develop national frameworks for things like mental health and well-being , which look to the practice that enables raising standards , it 's collecting that information , both at a national level , through the annual review of estyn , as well as our engagement with regions and local authorities . so , it 's looking at the evidence base that goes beyond , but impacts on data . and , inevitably , we will use the programme for international student assessment , and any other external assessments that come through organisations like the oecd . and even where we 've changed the performance measures , we still have , at national level , the ongoing data . so , if you looked at level 2 plus , we believe it is important that children get five good gcses—for higher education and for employment . so , we 've not lost sight of those at a national level—we 're not using them as a narrow set of performance measures for individual schools . kirsty williams am : so , if we look at—level 2 plus is a good example . we know that a relentless focus on that single measure , as a way of judging the system , leads to a set of behaviours in schools . it narrows the focus onto a certain part of the cohort , it narrows the curriculum , when we know that children— sian gwenllian am : i 'm not challenging the fact that you 've changed the performance measures—i understand that , and having a broader way of looking is better in the long run . i 'm just saying , because there 's been this change , it makes it more of a challenge—whilst accepting why you 've made the changes , but it does present more of a challenge , presumably , because you have to look at more indicators , and take evidence from different places . but i take it that you 're confident that the trajectory is going in the right way . kirsty williams am : yes , i think we are making improvements . but you 're right : it does make it more challenging . but those changes are being made for the right reasons , as i said , whether that be at level 2 plus . look at english literature . i understand why perhaps a performance measure around english was introduced , but the effect of that was that significant numbers of children—and , it must be said , usually children who are entitled to free school meals—were suddenly not sitting english literature gcse . we 've changed that performance measure , and guess what ? last year , we saw a significant increase in the number of children that were sitting english literature gcse . for standards of literacy and oracy , i think studying literature is really , really important , before we even get into the joy of introducing children to the written word and the love of reading . so , we make changes . yes , it causes challenges , but we 're making those changes because we believe that they are in the best interest of children , and that has to trump ease of comparison . sian gwenllian am : why have you decided to ask the consortia , estyn and so on not to report on local data or regional level data ? how do we then come to conclusions about what is working if it is n't presented on a local authority and regional basis ? kirsty williams am : well , i think the thing to say about the communications from welsh government , estyn , and the wlga is it 's not about not communicating the data , it 's about challenging people on how that data should be used . so , the data is still available , but it 's a challenge to them about how to use that data . so , for instance , when we 're presenting data that compares local authority to local authority , you could have a local authority that says , 'there we go , i 'm above the national average . i do n't need to worry about the education in my local authority , because i 'm above the average , or i 'm better than my neighbour . ' that does n't necessarily mean that everything is right in your local education authority . perhaps your children should be doing even better than what you 're presented with . so , actually , it 's not about hiding data ; it 's about how you use the data appropriately . and sometimes , how we were presenting data in the past was lulling some people into a false sense of security about the performance of their system . so , it 's about how you use data , and that 's what the communication from welsh government and the wlga and estyn was about : think very carefully about this data and what it 's telling you about your system , and do n't be lulled into a false sense of security that you may be doing brilliantly . or , perhaps , looking at your data , you may think , 'oh , my goodness me , we 're not doing very well at all ' , but , actually , more careful consideration of that might show that your school 's impact on those children is really , really a positive one . so , you 've got to use that data in the context . so , it 's not about less data . if anything , it 's about more data and , crucially for me , it 's about more intelligent use and interrogation of that data , about truly what it 's telling you about your system . sian gwenllian am : but again , the welsh government— . you have continued to publish the local and regional level data . so , does n't that contradict what you 've been telling the consortia and everyone else ? kirsty williams am : no , not at all . as i said , we 're not in the business of trying to hide data—i believe absolutely in full transparency . and in terms of level 2 data , i think i 'm not moving away from the point that i think it 's really important that more and more children get five really good gcses . i think it 's important for their life chances . it is about how that data is used , not about hiding data or making that data not available . </s>
<s> what did they think of making improvement but presenting more of a challenge ? </s> sian gwenllian am : i 'm not challenging the fact that you 've changed the performance measures—i understand that , and having a broader way of looking is better in the long run . i 'm just saying , because there 's been this change , it makes it more of a challenge—whilst accepting why you 've made the changes , but it does present more of a challenge , presumably , because you have to look at more indicators , and take evidence from different places . but i take it that you 're confident that the trajectory is going in the right way . </s>
<s> how do they come to conclusions about what was working if that was not presented on a local authority and regional basis ? </s>  </s>
<s> was the continuing to publish the local and regional level data contraindicated to what they had said about consortia ? </s> sian gwenllian am : but again , the welsh government— . you have continued to publish the local and regional level data . so , does n't that contradict what you 've been telling the consortia and everyone else ? kirsty williams am : no , not at all . as i said , we 're not in the business of trying to hide data—i believe absolutely in full transparency . and in terms of level 2 data , i think i 'm not moving away from the point that i think it 's really important that more and more children get five really good gcses . i think it 's important for their life chances . it is about how that data is used , not about hiding data or making that data not available . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . hi everybody and welcome to our kick-off meeting um for our new product that we 're gon na be designing . um i 'm mandy and i 'm the project manager . and i know all your names again , courtney , fenella and amber . alright . okay , so first let 's go through this powerpoint . i wonder what button i press ? user interface : just do it on the arrow . project manager : yeah , or how about i just click ? okay , here is our agenda for this meeting . um we 're gon na start with our opening which was our introductions . we 're gon na get to know each other a little bit better . um tool training , we 're going to , i guess , figure out what to do on this project with our individual roles . um we 're gon na make a project plan and then have some time for discussion and close up the meeting . okay , here is our project . we 're gon na make a new remote control that 's um original , trendy and also user-friendly . and how we are going to do it is each of us is going to um we 're gon na have discuss the functional design first , how is it gon na be used , what 's the actual goal here , it has to operate tv , blah blah blah . and we 're going to do individual work on that and then meet . same thing with conceptual design . just the basic overview of the project and then we 're going to do individual work , meet . that 's pretty much the the whole process for today . and then the detailed design , just more in-depth , get the actual schematics of the remote . okay . alright . first we 're gon na start off by using our tools . and the whiteboard thing , do you guys wan na give that a try even though the ink was n't working or do you wan na do it on here . industrial designer : i think we should forgo the whiteboard since we ca n't actually see what we 're writing . marketing : we could yeah , we could on here . project manager : alright , let 's go forward then . user interface : project manager : um right now so we 're all gon na draw our favourite animal and then sum up our favourite characteristics of that animal . even if you are not a good drawer like me . user interface : project manager : alright . industrial designer : artistic skills , nil . user interface : fine . marketing : oh , thanks . project manager : bless you . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : industrial designer : i draw like i 'm in grade five . project manager : oh do i . user interface : project manager : 'kay , about one more minute . okay . marketing : project manager : okay . and who would like to start us off ? marketing : i 'll go . project manager : alright . marketing : um this is my picture . i drew fish i like fish , because uh , you know , their whole water-vascular system thing . user interface : marketing : it 's pretty cool , and um they 've got a pretty good habitat and they are pretty sometimes , sometimes vicious but that 's okay . project manager : only if they 're piranhas . marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : yeah , they they 're easy , you know . project manager : alright . marketing : yeah . project manager : who wants to go next ? industrial designer : i 'll go . user interface : industrial designer : i drew a kitty . it 's pretty much impossible to tell that 's a cat , but i love cats . marketing : no i i see it . project manager : no , it looks like a cat . user interface : no , i kne i knew . marketing : yeah , it does look like a cat . industrial designer : i love cats because they 're independent , uh they pretty much know what they want , they get it , they move on . project manager : i love cats , too . i 'm a cat person . user interface : yeah . marketing : i 'm allergic to cats . industrial designer : i 'm allergic to cats , too . marketing : oh , okay . project manager : if you 're around one user interface : in my next life . project manager : i had a roommate who was um allergic , but if she was around my cat forever she became used to it , you know , marketing : yeah , yeah , if you 're around them for a long period of time project manager : it 's weird . okay . industrial designer : i still ca n't sleep with them in my room . marketing : oh , yeah , this summer i , oh i had to live with cats . it was crazy . project manager : okay , fenella ? marketing : yeah . user interface : um , i drew a badger . project manager : badger . good choice . marketing : cool . user interface : well , yeah . project manager : why a badger ? user interface : uh i dunno , they 're grumpy and nocturnal and marketing : industrial designer : are you trying to suggest something ? project manager : user interface : well , a little bit like the yes . um . and then , if you know wind in the willows badger . marketing : oh , okay . user interface : yeah and then uh i do n't know if you know brian . he 's liverpudlian writer . project manager : alright . user interface : um , that kind of books . badgers are cool in that one too . project manager : okay . and i 'm last . 'kay . look at my sad sad giraffe . marketing : no , that 's good . project manager : no , no , no , it ends up looking like some kind of a dinosaur , but whatever . i do n't know even much about giraffes , but i just love the way they look . they 're just such odd creatures , you know . i i like that they 're so unique and individual , i guess . i do n't know much about their behaviour or anything , though . only seen a couple in zoos . marketing : you do n't really have to , i mean , if you like 'em project manager : yeah , but you can appreciate the way they look . okay . alright . guess we 're getting straight back into business here . um the selling price for our remote is going to be twenty-five euro , and our profit aim is fifty million euro . we 're going to make this an international product marketed in the states , in europe , in asia . and um our production cost to make that profit is gon na be a max of twelve fifty euro per remote . okay . so we 're gon na talk for a little while . um here are some topics that we might be able to discuss . expe our experiences with remote controls um , our first ideas about this new remote , anything that you can bring to the table for this project . so . yeah . you wan na start us off ? anybody have anything to offer ? user interface : industrial designer : well , we wan na make a multifunctional remote , right ? project manager : right . industrial designer : one remote for everything . user interface : and everything being wait , we have what , sound system , tv , d_v_d_ , v_h_s_ , uh tivo ? marketing : right . industrial designer : um . i think they 'll be phasing v_h_s_ out shortly . marketing : yeah , tivo . project manager : tivo . user interface : but it 's still there , so industrial designer : okay . user interface : if po if we 're gon na do it marketing : it needs to be compatible 'cause universal remote controls are never universal . project manager : they 're never universal . that 's right . esp e especially if you buy a a not big product , d_v_d_ player , say , usually it does n't work if it 's not one of the user interface : or if it 's not like a sony , if it 's like a i do n't know . project manager : yeah . yeah . something from sam 's club . industrial designer : so we 'll have to figure it how to cover all the different variances in signals . project manager : yeah . marketing : and what we need an insanely good instruction booklet , because you always have to reconfigure all your contraptions to go with the remote anyways . project manager : yeah . 'kay , and um another thing that i think is important is the d the design of the product , how it feels in your hand . if it 's just flat and kind of boring th those do n't nobody wants to buy those any more . they want the ergonomic ones . marketing : they want like the flashy lights . project manager : yeah . marketing : oh like this came from las vegas . project manager : ones that ones that look high-tech , too . user interface : but at the same time are simple . project manager : right . marketing : mm yeah . project manager : so that people like my mother can use it . industrial designer : what about something with the curvature like that matches the curvature of a hand ? project manager : yeah . user interface : project manager : 'kay . anybody have any experiences with remote controls that they can remember that user interface : just bad ones . project manager : yeah . that 's true . industrial designer : what kinda battery would we want to use ? because battery changing is usually user interface : d double a_ . marketing : double a_ . industrial designer : okay . project manager : do some of them use triple a_s though ? marketing : yeah some use triple a_s . project manager : okay . user interface : some but marketing : so double or triple ? user interface : yeah , i guess then it 's if we need to do triple a_ we can , but most people usually have double a_s around . project manager : okay . yeah . but that has to do with the size of it too . well , w as long as we know that issue is industrial designer : yeah . user interface : right . project manager : here we can marketing : yeah , if we want it to be more thin , then we 'd probably wan na go with a triple a_ . project manager : triple a . but industrial designer : can you with a small lithium battery ? project manager : it 's okay , we do n't have to decide about it now , just as long as we remember battery type and size is important . user interface : project manager : hey . anything else ? alright . moving along . oh , we 're closing the meeting . next meeting is gon na start in thirty minutes . here 's what we 're going to do . um the i_d_ , which is who ? okay , you 're going to think about the working design . what do you think that means ? marketing : project manager : okay . and u_i_d_ , the technical fun functions design , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : making sure it does everything that we need the remote to do , the functionality of it , operating all those different things . okay . and the marketing person , that 's courtney , is going to do the user requirements specification . i guess that means specifying um what exactly the user is going to be looking for . right ? i would think so . okay . marketing : right . </s>
<s> summarize the process of team building and the discussion about animals . </s> project manager : um right now so we 're all gon na draw our favourite animal and then sum up our favourite characteristics of that animal . even if you are not a good drawer like me . user interface : project manager : alright . industrial designer : artistic skills , nil . user interface : fine . marketing : oh , thanks . project manager : bless you . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : industrial designer : i draw like i 'm in grade five . project manager : oh do i . user interface : project manager : 'kay , about one more minute . okay . marketing : project manager : okay . and who would like to start us off ? marketing : i 'll go . project manager : alright . marketing : um this is my picture . i drew fish i like fish , because uh , you know , their whole water-vascular system thing . user interface : marketing : it 's pretty cool , and um they 've got a pretty good habitat and they are pretty sometimes , sometimes vicious but that 's okay . project manager : only if they 're piranhas . marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : yeah , they they 're easy , you know . project manager : alright . marketing : yeah . project manager : who wants to go next ? industrial designer : i 'll go . user interface : industrial designer : i drew a kitty . it 's pretty much impossible to tell that 's a cat , but i love cats . marketing : no i i see it . project manager : no , it looks like a cat . user interface : no , i kne i knew . marketing : yeah , it does look like a cat . industrial designer : i love cats because they 're independent , uh they pretty much know what they want , they get it , they move on . project manager : i love cats , too . i 'm a cat person . user interface : yeah . marketing : i 'm allergic to cats . industrial designer : i 'm allergic to cats , too . marketing : oh , okay . project manager : if you 're around one user interface : in my next life . project manager : i had a roommate who was um allergic , but if she was around my cat forever she became used to it , you know , marketing : yeah , yeah , if you 're around them for a long period of time project manager : it 's weird . okay . industrial designer : i still ca n't sleep with them in my room . marketing : oh , yeah , this summer i , oh i had to live with cats . it was crazy . project manager : okay , fenella ? marketing : yeah . user interface : um , i drew a badger . project manager : badger . good choice . marketing : cool . user interface : well , yeah . project manager : why a badger ? user interface : uh i dunno , they 're grumpy and nocturnal and marketing : industrial designer : are you trying to suggest something ? project manager : user interface : well , a little bit like the yes . um . and then , if you know wind in the willows badger . marketing : oh , okay . user interface : yeah and then uh i do n't know if you know brian . he 's liverpudlian writer . project manager : alright . user interface : um , that kind of books . badgers are cool in that one too . project manager : okay . and i 'm last . 'kay . look at my sad sad giraffe . marketing : no , that 's good . project manager : no , no , no , it ends up looking like some kind of a dinosaur , but whatever . i do n't know even much about giraffes , but i just love the way they look . they 're just such odd creatures , you know . i i like that they 're so unique and individual , i guess . i do n't know much about their behaviour or anything , though . only seen a couple in zoos . marketing : you do n't really have to , i mean , if you like 'em </s>
<s> what did the team say about being allergic to cats when discussing their favourite animals ? </s> marketing : i 'm allergic to cats . industrial designer : i 'm allergic to cats , too . marketing : oh , okay . project manager : if you 're around one user interface : in my next life . project manager : i had a roommate who was um allergic , but if she was around my cat forever she became used to it , you know , marketing : yeah , yeah , if you 're around them for a long period of time project manager : it 's weird . okay . industrial designer : i still ca n't sleep with them in my room . </s>
<s> in the discussion of favourite animals , what was said about user interface 's choice ? </s> user interface : um , i drew a badger . project manager : badger . good choice . marketing : cool . user interface : well , yeah . project manager : why a badger ? user interface : uh i dunno , they 're grumpy and nocturnal and marketing : industrial designer : are you trying to suggest something ? project manager : user interface : well , a little bit like the yes . um . and then , if you know wind in the willows badger . marketing : oh , okay . user interface : yeah and then uh i do n't know if you know brian . he 's liverpudlian writer . project manager : alright . </s>
<s> summarize the first ideas they raised for the design of the remote . </s> project manager : um the selling price for our remote is going to be twenty-five euro , and our profit aim is fifty million euro . we 're going to make this an international product marketed in the states , in europe , in asia . and um our production cost to make that profit is gon na be a max of twelve fifty euro per remote . okay . so we 're gon na talk for a little while . um here are some topics that we might be able to discuss . expe our experiences with remote controls um , our first ideas about this new remote , anything that you can bring to the table for this project . so . yeah . you wan na start us off ? anybody have anything to offer ? user interface : industrial designer : well , we wan na make a multifunctional remote , right ? project manager : right . industrial designer : one remote for everything . user interface : and everything being wait , we have what , sound system , tv , d_v_d_ , v_h_s_ , uh tivo ? marketing : right . industrial designer : um . i think they 'll be phasing v_h_s_ out shortly . marketing : yeah , tivo . project manager : tivo . user interface : but it 's still there , so industrial designer : okay . user interface : if po if we 're gon na do it marketing : it needs to be compatible 'cause universal remote controls are never universal . project manager : they 're never universal . that 's right . esp e especially if you buy a a not big product , d_v_d_ player , say , usually it does n't work if it 's not one of the user interface : or if it 's not like a sony , if it 's like a i do n't know . project manager : yeah . yeah . something from sam 's club . industrial designer : so we 'll have to figure it how to cover all the different variances in signals . project manager : yeah . marketing : and what we need an insanely good instruction booklet , because you always have to reconfigure all your contraptions to go with the remote anyways . project manager : yeah . 'kay , and um another thing that i think is important is the d the design of the product , how it feels in your hand . if it 's just flat and kind of boring th those do n't nobody wants to buy those any more . they want the ergonomic ones . marketing : they want like the flashy lights . project manager : yeah . marketing : oh like this came from las vegas . project manager : ones that ones that look high-tech , too . user interface : but at the same time are simple . project manager : right . marketing : mm yeah . project manager : so that people like my mother can use it . industrial designer : what about something with the curvature like that matches the curvature of a hand ? project manager : yeah . user interface : project manager : 'kay . anybody have any experiences with remote controls that they can remember that user interface : just bad ones . project manager : yeah . that 's true . industrial designer : what kinda battery would we want to use ? because battery changing is usually user interface : d double a_ . marketing : double a_ . industrial designer : okay . project manager : do some of them use triple a_s though ? marketing : yeah some use triple a_s . project manager : okay . user interface : some but marketing : so double or triple ? user interface : yeah , i guess then it 's if we need to do triple a_ we can , but most people usually have double a_s around . project manager : okay . yeah . but that has to do with the size of it too . well , w as long as we know that issue is industrial designer : yeah . user interface : right . project manager : here we can marketing : yeah , if we want it to be more thin , then we 'd probably wan na go with a triple a_ . project manager : triple a . but industrial designer : can you with a small lithium battery ? </s>
<s> what is industrial designer 's opinion on dealing with the compatibility of the remote ? </s> industrial designer : well , we wan na make a multifunctional remote , right ? project manager : right . industrial designer : one remote for everything . user interface : and everything being wait , we have what , sound system , tv , d_v_d_ , v_h_s_ , uh tivo ? marketing : right . industrial designer : um . i think they 'll be phasing v_h_s_ out shortly . marketing : yeah , tivo . project manager : tivo . user interface : but it 's still there , so industrial designer : okay . user interface : if po if we 're gon na do it marketing : it needs to be compatible 'cause universal remote controls are never universal . project manager : they 're never universal . that 's right . esp e especially if you buy a a not big product , d_v_d_ player , say , usually it does n't work if it 's not one of the user interface : or if it 's not like a sony , if it 's like a i do n't know . project manager : yeah . yeah . something from sam 's club . </s>
<s> in the discussion of first ideas on the design , what did they decide on the battery type at the meeting ? </s> industrial designer : what kinda battery would we want to use ? because battery changing is usually user interface : d double a_ . marketing : double a_ . industrial designer : okay . project manager : do some of them use triple a_s though ? marketing : yeah some use triple a_s . project manager : okay . user interface : some but marketing : so double or triple ? user interface : yeah , i guess then it 's if we need to do triple a_ we can , but most people usually have double a_s around . project manager : okay . yeah . but that has to do with the size of it too . well , w as long as we know that issue is industrial designer : yeah . user interface : right . project manager : here we can marketing : yeah , if we want it to be more thin , then we 'd probably wan na go with a triple a_ . project manager : triple a . but industrial designer : can you with a small lithium battery ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : uh , making a profit of fifty million euros . industrial designer : alright so twenty five . user interface : mm 'kay . project manager : so , it 's go gon na have to be be pretty damn trendy . industrial designer : so yeah , i 've the only the only remote controls i 've used usually come with the television , and they 're fairly basic . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so uh project manager : yeah , i was thinking that as well , i think the the only ones that i 've seen that you buy are the sort of one for all type things where they 're , user interface : yeah the universal ones . yeah . project manager : yeah . so presumably that might be an idea to put into . industrial designer : but but to sell it for twenty five you need a lot of neat features . for sure . marketing : slim . project manager : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh 'cause i mean , what uh twenty five euros , that 's about i dunno , fifteen pounds or so ? and that 's quite a lot for a remote control . user interface : mm-hmm , it 's about that . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : user interface : um well my first thoughts would be most remote controls are grey or black . as you said they come with the tv so it 's normally just your basic grey black remote control functions , project manager : uh-huh . user interface : so maybe we could think about colour ? project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : make that might make it a bit different from the rest at least . um , and as you say , we need to have some kind of gimmick , so um i thought maybe something like if you lose it and you can whistle , project manager : okay . the the keyrings , yeah yeah . user interface : you know those things ? because we always lose our remote control . industrial designer : right . marketing : uh yeah uh , project manager : okay , that 's cool . marketing : being as a marketing exper expert i will like to say like before deciding the cost of this remote control or any other things we must see the market potential for this product like what is the competition in the market ? what are the available prices of the other remote controls in the prices ? project manager : okay . marketing : what speciality other remote controls are having and how complicated it is to use these remote controls as compared to other remote controls available in the market . so before deciding or before finalising this project , we must discuss all these things , like user interface : okay . marketing : and apart from this , it should be having a good look also , because people really li uh like to play with it when they are watching movies or playing with or playing with their c_d_ player , m_p_ three player like any electronic devices . user interface : mm . mm-hmm . marketing : they really want to have something good , having a good design in their hands , user interface : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : so , yes , project manager : 'kay . marketing : all this . industrial designer : uh , what do we think a project manager : so , we 're looking for 'kay . industrial designer : what do we think a good size would be for this ? project manager : we 're industrial designer : 'cause i i know as you add more buttons to the remote it sometimes gets so big and clunky project manager : sorry , carry on . user interface : industrial designer : and there 's just like a hundred buttons on it , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or you could have a really small slim one but then you could lose it easily . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . then you lose it , yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : kind of um , maybe more like a p_d_a_ kind of , just hand held , like , project manager : for for uh user interface : 'cause project manager : remember we 're trying to make it for twelve euros fifty . user interface : yeah . no , i was n't , no sorry i was n't thinking of the screen of like a p_d_a_ project manager : okay well right we 'll have to um i 'll we 're k having another meeting in half an hour so um user interface : okay . project manager : we should all look into a bit uh , oh actually , no , we 'll allocate . so you do the looking around at other remote controls . marketing : yeah . project manager : um , if you could maybe come up with sort of shapes and suggested shades or whatever , and you could look into um basically how how it 's made i_e_ like how you make it all in one , how what sort of materials are available to you whatever . and obviously , other instructions will come from the personal coach . industrial designer : right . project manager : which will probably just usurp what i said so user interface : so you want me to look at shapes and everything you said ? project manager : shapes and colours and um basically how to make it attractive . user interface : yep . okay . mm-hmm . project manager : and you look at competition and design . cool . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : we have uh industrial designer : wait for emails ? project manager : um . industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : project manager : okay , groovy . and no doubt we 'll get um user interface : oh no , . project manager : sorry . we 'll get um warnings for next meetings as well . user interface : it 's okay . okay , cool . project manager : okay . i shall i ca n't imagine these are worth much . okay . fashion into electronic . okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about desired features of the new remote controls . </s> project manager : yeah , i was thinking that as well , i think the the only ones that i 've seen that you buy are the sort of one for all type things where they 're , user interface : yeah the universal ones . yeah . project manager : yeah . so presumably that might be an idea to put into . industrial designer : but but to sell it for twenty five you need a lot of neat features . for sure . marketing : slim . project manager : yeah , yeah . user interface : make that might make it a bit different from the rest at least . um , and as you say , we need to have some kind of gimmick , so um i thought maybe something like if you lose it and you can whistle , project manager : okay . the the keyrings , yeah yeah . user interface : you know those things ? because we always lose our remote control . industrial designer : right . marketing : uh yeah uh , </s>
<s> why did the team discuss the desired features of the new tv remote controls ? </s> industrial designer : but but to sell it for twenty five you need a lot of neat features . for sure . user interface : make that might make it a bit different from the rest at least . um , and as you say , we need to have some kind of gimmick , so um i thought maybe something like if you lose it and you can whistle , project manager : okay . the the keyrings , yeah yeah . user interface : you know those things ? because we always lose our remote control . industrial designer : right . marketing : uh yeah uh , </s>
<s> how did the team come up with these features of the new tv remote controls ? </s> industrial designer : so yeah , i 've the only the only remote controls i 've used usually come with the television , and they 're fairly basic . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so uh project manager : yeah , i was thinking that as well , i think the the only ones that i 've seen that you buy are the sort of one for all type things where they 're , user interface : yeah the universal ones . yeah . make that might make it a bit different from the rest at least . um , and as you say , we need to have some kind of gimmick , so um i thought maybe something like if you lose it and you can whistle , project manager : okay . the the keyrings , yeah yeah . user interface : you know those things ? because we always lose our remote control . industrial designer : right . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the importance of good looks and sizes of remote controls . </s> marketing : and apart from this , it should be having a good look also , because people really li uh like to play with it when they are watching movies or playing with or playing with their c_d_ player , m_p_ three player like any electronic devices . user interface : mm . mm-hmm . marketing : they really want to have something good , having a good design in their hands , user interface : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : so , yes , project manager : 'kay . marketing : all this . industrial designer : uh , what do we think a project manager : so , we 're looking for 'kay . industrial designer : what do we think a good size would be for this ? project manager : we 're industrial designer : 'cause i i know as you add more buttons to the remote it sometimes gets so big and clunky project manager : sorry , carry on . user interface : industrial designer : and there 's just like a hundred buttons on it , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or you could have a really small slim one but then you could lose it easily . user interface : kind of um , maybe more like a p_d_a_ kind of , just hand held , like , project manager : for for uh user interface : 'cause project manager : remember we 're trying to make it for twelve euros fifty . user interface : yeah . no , i was n't , no sorry i was n't thinking of the screen of like a p_d_a_ project manager : okay well right we 'll have to um i 'll we 're k having another meeting in half an hour so um </s>
<s> why did the team agree that a good look was important to the new tv remote controls ? </s> marketing : and apart from this , it should be having a good look also , because people really li uh like to play with it when they are watching movies or playing with or playing with their c_d_ player , m_p_ three player like any electronic devices . user interface : mm . mm-hmm . marketing : they really want to have something good , having a good design in their hands , user interface : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : so , yes , project manager : 'kay . marketing : all this . industrial designer : uh , what do we think a </s>
<s> why did the team could n't think of the satisfying size of the new tv remote controls ? </s> industrial designer : 'cause i i know as you add more buttons to the remote it sometimes gets so big and clunky project manager : sorry , carry on . user interface : industrial designer : and there 's just like a hundred buttons on it , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or you could have a really small slim one but then you could lose it easily . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . then you lose it , yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : kind of um , maybe more like a p_d_a_ kind of , just hand held , like , project manager : for for uh user interface : 'cause </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay uh agnes , you can help me for the slide when user interface : yep . sure . project manager : okay . okay , welcome back . i hope uh you have a fresh head and a fresh time . how t now the meeting actually we gathering here to discuss about the functional design meeting . okay , and uh we 'll issue some information from uh all of you . and it 's in the , i think uh , in the sharing folder . and uh i will invite uh the christine and the ed and uh agnes to discuss about on the various subjects . so can you go to the next slide ? yeah uh the agenda of the meeting is opening . then uh i 'm going to talk about uh the project management , what i 'm going to do , and uh , of course , i 'm doing the project management and secretary both , okay , to take the minutes of the meeting . and there are three presentations . one is uh new project requirements . and the second one about uh decision on remote control functions . and uh finally we are closing . uh and the meeting time will be uh forty minutes , so you have to be very quick . and i have come up with the management come with the new proposal , okay , and i have to discuss a few points on this . uh both says new insights in the aim of your project . uh the one is uh the teletext becomes uh outmoded , okay because if uh because of the computer systems and the new technology . so we do n't need to consider really about the teletext all in our new project design . and the second one is about uh the remote control . should be used only for the tv . that 's what our uh management says . and the third point , it 's very very important to establish our uh marketing or uh corporate image , okay , with this new project or new product . okay . so i will invite uh agnes , can you go to the third slide ? user interface : no , this is the third slide . project manager : okay , . so , i 'll invite uh christine to discuss about uh the functional design . industrial designer : 'kay , do you wan na open the user interface : sure . um . you 're participant s industrial designer : i 'm number two . project manager : industrial designer : that 's it . user interface : do you want the mouse , or do you want me to industrial designer : i 'll do the notes . yeah , thanks . project manager : industrial designer : so um well i i figured uh we should um identify some user requirements , and from my experience , i wan na uh , and from research i did , uh the the device has to turn the television on and off the first time you press on the big button , you ca n't uh ca n't have like uh waffling on this point , you know . project manager : industrial designer : really have it needs to be able y y have to be able to find it . because one of the biggest problems with remote controls is finding them . so uh , i also , since we have to establish our corporate image on the basis of this new product , thought we better look at things that are popular and um ex go beyond those , and , as i said in the first meeting , um and then uh we might wan na talk eventually about the materials that are appropriate to use in uh in the construction , especially in the the uh the outside of the product project manager : industrial designer : so that it gives the appearance , and it is reliable , and so forth . i did a little history on uh the the uh remote controls and when they were invented and so forth , so , i guess this guy zenith uh created the flashmatic , which i kinda like the idea , 'cause it made me think of um um maybe the remote control made a big flash when uh you turn the tv on and off , that might be interesting . and um so it was highly directional flash light that uh you could turn the picture on and off , and the sound on and off , and change channels c so i think um those are still requirements we have today , uh fifty years later . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh it was really a pioneering innovation , but it was uh sensitive to the sun , so that uh it would get would start off by the you 'd get it would easily cause um problems . so , uh i in addition to uh looking at the um uh the functional requir so all these devices are examples of where uh mm they represent examples that are available today which i think the one in the middle is r um really uh something to keep in mind . marketing : fantastic . user interface : industrial designer : it 'd be easy to find . and um it would uh y you 'd you could throw it at things if if the tv did n't turn on and off , you could use it for something else . and since i 'm not really um industrial designer , i did n't really know what to do with this slide . but um i just took some different uh schematics and i put them into this , and i guess this is what a slide might look like if you were drawing a circuit board . i do n't know why um we were asked to do this . so , uh personal preferences , um user interface : industrial designer : i think we could uh i i 'm really thinking outside the box here , and i think that we should consider perhaps having an an an a a size uh a remote control that changes in size depending on the user preference . user interface : industrial designer : so something that 's very very flexible and inflatable and then you could shrink it . i think um it could either be you could go either one extreme , be very colourful , or you could make it clear , and um kind of blend in with things , so you did n't have to um uh have a problem with the th the decoration of the of the user 's home . um i think uh it needs to be waterproof , because uh sometimes they fall into cups project manager : industrial designer : and , you know , it might be out by the swimming pool or something like that . um if you uh mi one of one of my requirements was about needs t to tell you when it 's done its job or not , because half the time , i keep pushing on the remote control , and i do n't know if it 's actually understood my message , so i think it should give you some sort of an oral cue . and uh , course i never wan na replace the battery . so , marketing : industrial designer : that 's those are my f preferences , and that 's my presentation . project manager : yeah , let me uh interrupt you uh if you can add other facility , other feature , like uh unbreakable . okay , because uh especially today , you know , you have the family and the kids , user interface : project manager : okay , and the kids throw it and they they play with their remotes and . industrial designer : run over it with a car . project manager : yes . okay , so if you can add the feature , okay , for your uh fabric whatever in your outline design okay , with unbreakable , okay , i think that will give a lot of advantage for our product , if i 'm not wrong . maybe you can uh add it in that . industrial designer : good idea . good idea , i 'll i 'll uh um yes , very good . project manager : okay , uh thank you christine , and uh uh any questions or uh clarifications , or any discussion on the functional design ? user interface : do you have any preconceived ideas in terms of materials ? 'cause , for example , in the unbreakable thing , doing something plastic would be harder , whereas having something like , i dunno , steel or titanium is n't really economically viable . industrial designer : titanium . titanium would be be heavy , too , marketing : titanium . industrial designer : would n't it ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : no , i have n't really um i wanted feedback , i think we need to rate rank these , but we 'll see what your uh personal preferences are and your thoughts . user interface : yeah . sure , yeah . no , i just wondering whether that you had any sort of industrial designer : i like titanium . it 's light . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh yeah marketing : expensive . user interface : the marketing comes out . industrial designer : but uh who who said who said we were , marketing : industrial designer : you know , nobody told me how mu what our financial objective is , so um project manager : yeah so industrial designer : it 'd be hard to inflate something ou made out of titanium though . project manager : yeah the the i 'm sorry because uh the last meeting we supposed to discuss about the financial thing . user interface : marketing : project manager : uh let me go quickly , maybe if i can go back . i know the project plan and the budget . so i can close this , not sure . was in uh s this . so let me see where is this file . user interface : that 's christine 's . project manager : this is christine . user interface : and that 's mine , i think . project manager : that 's yours , okay . saving . marketing : user interface : in modified . marketing : i do n't know , project manager : okay , uh marketing : i think verbally we can we can pretty much sell . project manager : i will i will send you a mail , okay ? the project may be the the project aim , okay . at the end of the day , the company uh wants to make at least uh the fifty million euro . okay , and uh of course the price will be very reasonable on the the sales side . okay , that maybe eddie will talk to you about uh how much uh the price and uh what 's uh how much its cost for the manufacturing and how much it 's going to be we sell in the market . okay . then uh you can come back with your feedback . and i i have one maybe the suggestion or opinion . this remote control , okay , it can be for like universal , to use for any tv . okay , and it will be slim , okay , and uh industrial designer : not fat ? project manager : not fat . industrial designer : not fat , huh . project manager : okay . industrial designer : might be hard to find , though . project manager : yep . but let 's try it , okay , with the different uh the designs , okay , the functional designs . industrial designer : oh , okay . project manager : okay ? so any other questions ? marketing : uh from her side , i do n't think uh there 's too many more questions . project manager : okay . thank you christine for uh time being , marketing : if you can come to the project manager : so then uh ed , so can you tell about marketing : okay , from the marketing yeah , from the marketing side , just to to give an idea what the management is looking for , i was looking for a a remote control to have a s user interface : s 'scuse me for one sec . marketing : i have a sales price of twenty-five euro , with a production price of uh twelve and a half euro . for what uh i think from what we 're trying to find , we 're tr we 're looking for , i do n't think that price is exactly in the market . okay ? project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i 'll explain myself here now in the sense that uh in a in the recent surveys , uh from the ages fr from fifteen to thirty-five , eighty percent are willing to spend more money for something as fancy as trendy . project manager : marketing : twenty-five euros , uh that 's that 's a preson reasonable price . that 's a market price right now . now if we 're gon na take a risk , and push this up a bit , make it more expensive , but give them added things that they do n't have now , then it w it could possibly sell . obviously the risk is there . too expensive , they 're not gon na buy . but , i think uh there 's one other thing interesting two things that are interesting is that uh from the fifteen to thirty-five year-old group , which always spends more money on trendy new things , speech recognition is requested . industrial designer : speech recognition ? . marketing : and we 're talking between seventy-five to ninety percent of this group is willing to pay for speech recognition on a remote . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : obviously , we ca n't make a remote into a computer , but maybe simple commands . i dunno , louder , softer , on , off . that might be a possibility , even though it costs more , to be the first on the market to produce this . project manager : marketing : thirty-five percent say they 're too difficult to use . so we have to figure out a way of making it um more user friendly . uh fifty percent say they ca n't find the remote half the time . industrial designer : marketing : so maybe one word speech recognition commands , say remote , and there 's a beep beep beep , and they can find it through , you know , ten tons of newspapers , magazines , whatever you have at home . project manager : marketing : but , in the cost that uh the management is looking for , that 's not gon na be possible . but if it 's trendy , if it 's fancy , it 's got some colour to it , if it 's very easy easy to use , if it 's got simple remote speech remote uh control , like i said , louder , softer , change channel , on , off , remote , it goes beep beep , i can find my my remote without spending half a day looking for it and getting all upset 'cause i ca n't turn the tv on . so we 're gon na have to look at it in a in this global idea , with the ideas of the industrial uh design . project manager : marketing : but , price obviously we have to talk about . project manager : yep . so what do you think about uh the design ? do you think you can make it or uh industrial designer : d uh i 'm sorry ? project manager : what do you think about uh the design , uh what he was talking about of the speech recognition ? marketing : speech recognition . industrial designer : well , uh training is always an issue with uh commands . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so um might uh we can perhaps um do it if the user is willing to spend some time in the training process , uh it could reduce th th uh the overall um cost . not sure how . but um anyway , um i i think also that uh this might impact the battery life . and um so , maybe what we 'll have to do is um add something where you can um recharge it wirelessly so that uh y you know sen send power to it . so uh or maybe uh set it out in the sun and it uh , you know , gets uh , from the light , um a a solar cell inside there so that uh you have enough uh juice to do all these fancy things . user interface : it seems also like with the speech recognition , yeah , it 's a great feature , but if you 're watching tv , there 's a lot of ambient sound , and it 's words . it 's not just , you know , noises like something hitting . it 's actual speech , so then you have to make sure that the speech recognizer is good enough to filter out the tv speech , and the the user 's speech . otherwise , you can say remote . industrial designer : off . user interface : but if someone on the screen is saying the same thing , all of a sudden , you have someone in a movie saying off and your screen dies , because they 've triggered the remote control and it 's turned off your tv . so , i think if we can find a speech recognizer that can handle those types of problems , then yeah , it 'd be a really good marketing gimmick . but , i think we seriously need to consider how that would impact the situation . industrial designer : very good point . marketing : because tha w with speech recognition uh th i 'm not that good at that idea user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but th if it 's a one-word recognition , 'cause i know with telephones and cars and things i 've seen in the states , user interface : yeah . marketing : a friend of mine says call mom , and it calls up mom . user interface : yeah . marketing : 'kay the radio can be on and everything . because i think s with speech recognition , if uh the the remote or like the telephone it has a exact word that it has to hear . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : i do n't think it would come through a sentence in a television . if somebody 's speaking on the se the television , they 're not gon na stop and say remote , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . so i think that uh something could be designed to recognise single word user interface : oh yeah . yeah . no , i think it 's a great idea if we can design it to to suit those requirements . marketing : like the t like the telephone . no because i this is this is years ago in the united states where we 're driving down and he said call home , and the telephone called immediately user interface : yeah . marketing : so well , that 's kinda cute . project manager : well , what i can uh suggest to you , christine , okay , uh if you need some uh the technical feedback , or some training , okay , about uh this facility , especially for the speech recognition , i can recommend you some companies like uh intel or i_b_m_ , okay , because they 're already in this uh speech recognition part , okay . and uh you can maybe have some uh technical backup from them , some kind of a technical tie-up . okay , and uh if you want , i can coordinate , okay , to get some information , okay , and uh you can uh let me know , okay , so what kind of uh the details you require okay , to add this feature in this project . i do n't think it 's uh the difficult . and uh we need to know how much is the timeframe you need to develop , apart from uh what today . industrial designer : okay , we 'll find that out . marketing : from from your side uh , you 're gon na have to go back the management and s be more s precise . what do they want ? uh , a risk , take a risk on the market ? something that 's gon na cost more , but could very easily s make a boom in the market ? project manager : yes . yep . marketing : because it has to be something totally different , has to be total totally new . something that nobody has right now . project manager : yeah but marketing : and it 's gon na cost . project manager : but end of the day , you 're the sales guy , so i will come back and sit on your head because uh you are going to give your sales projection , marketing : user interface : project manager : okay . it 's uh of course it 's uh good to uh tell the management how much it 's cost us marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and how much you are going to benefit , marketing : sure . sure . project manager : okay . and uh , so i do n't mind to convince , okay , the management to spend some more money on the project , okay , if you can make out of marketing : obviously . project manager : the money from this project . marketing : if the bottom line is positive . project manager : yes , okay i do n't mind to convince the the management , user interface : project manager : okay . the management says , okay , so they they do n't want certain facilities , which it 's already worked , okay , they want something uh new , okay . i think uh like uh speech recognit definitely they will agree , i do n't think they 'll say no for that , okay . and uh i hope i can convince the management on that , okay . so if you have any uh new ideas , okay , for uh your you can always come up and uh you can tell me if you need any uh s special , okay , coordination , okay , between any uh technical companies , which you can uh hide their technology backup , okay , for your uh functional design or technical design , okay , then i am ready to do that . and uh what 's your comments about uh user interface : um well , i mean , maybe if i go through my presentation , you can sort of see what the user perspective is , and how it ties into the other two comments . project manager : yeah , so you are finish , ed , uh so i can uh marketing : yes . mm . project manager : okay , i 'll uh hand over to agnes . just gon na close this . t uh where are you , here ? user interface : mm participant three . project manager : participant three . user interface : nope , here project manager : okay , so i 'll yep . okay . user interface : good . project manager : is it okay ? user interface : thanks . yeah , and that 's fine . okay . so , basically , the method that we usually use in the user interface design is that we need to look at what people like and what people do n't like about existing products . so , in our case , existing remote controls . and then , what the good ideas are , and what the bad ideas are , and why they 're bad and good , which is n't always as obvious . we seem to have intuitions about why things are good or things are bad , but when you look , technically , at how it works , sometimes that 's not the case . then we need to decide what functionalities we really want to keep , 'cause that 'll feed into both ed 's work and christine 's work . um and then what the remote control should look like , obviously , once we 've got a good idea of what the functionalities are . so , in terms of the functionalities that we need , you obviously need to be able to turn the tv on and off . you need to change channels , both by directly going to a specific channel or by channel surfing . you need to be able to control the volume and then control any menus on the tv to regulate contrast or whatever . so , the problems that people have expressed is that there 's too many buttons on remote controls , in general . the buttons it 's not clear what they 're supposed to do . um often , you need to know specific button sequences to get certain functionalities done , um which you do n't necessarily always remember , especially if it 's a functionality that you do n't use very often . and that the buttons are too small . so , here we 've got two examples where here on the left-hand side , you can see a remote control that has lots and lots of buttons . industrial designer : user interface : the buttons , in a lot of cases , are tiny . um they 're hard to see , and okay , they 're labelled , but the labels do n't necessarily tell you too much . whereas , on the other side , you have a much simpler remote control that i think basically has the minimum functionalities that are needed . and it sort of looks simpler and just less imposing when you first look at it . so , i would be inclined to go sort of towards this , in terms of design , rather than this . and if there 's specific functionalities that require more buttons , then we can figure out how to do it with existing um buttons . so my personal preferences are to keep the number of buttons to a limit , or to a minimum , sorry , make frequently used buttons bigger and more strategically placed , so like the on button being really obvious one , the channel changing and the volume , and to keep the design basically sleek and simple . project manager : click mm . user interface : which , i think ties into what christine and ed have both said fairly reasonably . um so , that 's pretty much it , an i do n't know if you guys have any questions or industrial designer : oh , it 's um , seems very understandable . clearly your research and uh and ours uh heading in the same direction , and um uh the only thing that i saw missing from uh your your research that we found was this uh ability to find the doggone thing when you need it . marketing : user interface : yes , that 's true . yeah . industrial designer : so uh , you know , but that 's okay . that 's why we 're all here at the table , so that if we think of it and our research indicates certain things and um w we it 's complementary . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i also think that um uh th f the the feel of it is uh , when you hold it , is something that um uh was expressed more in in in in my uh design user interface : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : and that 's logical and normal 'cause those are the parameters that an industrial designer 's more thinking about , th th the look and the feel , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and uh , you 're user interface : oh , that 's definitely a very important factor , especially to users who are gon na be buying the thing and then using it almost on an daily basis in a lot of cases , i think . industrial designer : first . yep . mm-hmm . okay , so i do n't have any questions . sounds good . project manager : so for anybody need uh any help , for time being , on this uh subjects , okay , so please come back to me , user interface : oh project manager : and uh christine , maybe i can uh try to help you to get some uh the technical uh the companies to help you for uh make a design uh slim , okay , and to add some features , like we are talking about , the speech recognition and all . user interface : should we maybe make a decision about what features we actually want to include , project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause we 've thrown a lot of features onto the table , but do we actually want to incorporate all of them , or have we missed anything ? industrial designer : do you wan na go back and look at the closing slide , maybe that would provide some guidance ? user interface : sure . industrial designer : does n't really tell us . project manager : so not really this one we are talk ab marketing : individual actions . industrial designer : well it says individual actions , it says user interf so i 'm supposed to do the components concept , supposed to work on the user interface concept , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and you 're supposed to keep watching the trends . um and specific instructions will be sent by our our coach . i think we should do as many features as uh start with all of them right now user interface : i thought industrial designer : and eliminate them later in the process , that 's my suggestion . project manager : okay , that will be great . and uh i 'll send you the the minutes of meet industrial designer : you can object if you want to user interface : no , i i 'm just thinking in terms of time , marketing : she 's objecting . user interface : like if project manager : yeah . user interface : yes , now i 'm objecting . no , i mean , i was just thinking is it really practical to start designing something with features that we 're just gon na end up throwing away ? i mean , it takes a lot of time and effort for everyone to consider different features , um and s if we spend that time and effort on features that we 're not gon na use , maybe it 's better to spend it on the f thinking more about features that we actually do want , but industrial designer : i think we should take that as an action item for after the meeting , marketing : oh th we s we still have user interface : guess industrial designer : 'cause w our meeting time has run out . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : somebody else has go to use this room , marketing : right . user interface : sure . industrial designer : and , you know , we ca n't hang out here user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and talk about this , so user interface : yeah . sure . project manager : okay , what we 'll do is now we 'll take for lunch break , okay , then uh we can discuss furthermore , okay , with our areas , and uh then we will come back again in the in the next meeting . so thanks for coming and uh i 'll send you minutes of meeting , and uh please put your all information in the sharing folder so everybody can share the information . okay ? user interface : okay . project manager : so let 's go for lunch then . thank you . industrial designer : thank you very much . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about speech recognition command ? </s> marketing : but , in the cost that uh the management is looking for , that 's not gon na be possible . but if it 's trendy , if it 's fancy , it 's got some colour to it , if it 's very easy easy to use , if it 's got simple remote speech remote uh control , like i said , louder , softer , change channel , on , off , remote , it goes beep beep , i can find my my remote without spending half a day looking for it and getting all upset 'cause i ca n't turn the tv on . so we 're gon na have to look at it in a in this global idea , with the ideas of the industrial uh design . project manager : marketing : but , price obviously we have to talk about . project manager : yep . so what do you think about uh the design ? do you think you can make it or uh industrial designer : d uh i 'm sorry ? project manager : what do you think about uh the design , uh what he was talking about of the speech recognition ? marketing : speech recognition . industrial designer : well , uh training is always an issue with uh commands . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so um might uh we can perhaps um do it if the user is willing to spend some time in the training process , uh it could reduce th th uh the overall um cost . not sure how . but um anyway , um i i think also that uh this might impact the battery life . and um so , maybe what we 'll have to do is um add something where you can um recharge it wirelessly so that uh y you know sen send power to it . so uh or maybe uh set it out in the sun and it uh , you know , gets uh , from the light , um a a solar cell inside there so that uh you have enough uh juice to do all these fancy things . user interface : it seems also like with the speech recognition , yeah , it 's a great feature , but if you 're watching tv , there 's a lot of ambient sound , and it 's words . it 's not just , you know , noises like something hitting . it 's actual speech , so then you have to make sure that the speech recognizer is good enough to filter out the tv speech , and the the user 's speech . otherwise , you can say remote . industrial designer : off . user interface : but if someone on the screen is saying the same thing , all of a sudden , you have someone in a movie saying off and your screen dies , because they 've triggered the remote control and it 's turned off your tv . so , i think if we can find a speech recognizer that can handle those types of problems , then yeah , it 'd be a really good marketing gimmick . but , i think we seriously need to consider how that would impact the situation . industrial designer : very good point . marketing : because tha w with speech recognition uh th i 'm not that good at that idea user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but th if it 's a one-word recognition , 'cause i know with telephones and cars and things i 've seen in the states , user interface : yeah . marketing : a friend of mine says call mom , and it calls up mom . user interface : yeah . marketing : 'kay the radio can be on and everything . because i think s with speech recognition , if uh the the remote or like the telephone it has a exact word that it has to hear . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : i do n't think it would come through a sentence in a television . if somebody 's speaking on the se the television , they 're not gon na stop and say remote , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . so i think that uh something could be designed to recognise single word user interface : oh yeah . yeah . no , i think it 's a great idea if we can design it to to suit those requirements . marketing : like the t like the telephone . no because i this is this is years ago in the united states where we 're driving down and he said call home , and the telephone called immediately user interface : yeah . marketing : so well , that 's kinda cute . project manager : well , what i can uh suggest to you , christine , okay , uh if you need some uh the technical feedback , or some training , okay , about uh this facility , especially for the speech recognition , i can recommend you some companies like uh intel or i_b_m_ , okay , because they 're already in this uh speech recognition part , okay . and uh you can maybe have some uh technical backup from them , some kind of a technical tie-up . okay , and uh if you want , i can coordinate , okay , to get some information , okay , and uh you can uh let me know , okay , so what kind of uh the details you require okay , to add this feature in this project . i do n't think it 's uh the difficult . and uh we need to know how much is the timeframe you need to develop , apart from uh what today . industrial designer : okay , we 'll find that out . marketing : from from your side uh , you 're gon na have to go back the management and s be more s precise . what do they want ? uh , a risk , take a risk on the market ? something that 's gon na cost more , but could very easily s make a boom in the market ? project manager : yes . yep . marketing : because it has to be something totally different , has to be total totally new . something that nobody has right now . project manager : yeah but marketing : and it 's gon na cost . project manager : but end of the day , you 're the sales guy , so i will come back and sit on your head because uh you are going to give your sales projection , marketing : user interface : project manager : okay . it 's uh of course it 's uh good to uh tell the management how much it 's cost us marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and how much you are going to benefit , marketing : sure . sure . project manager : okay . and uh , so i do n't mind to convince , okay , the management to spend some more money on the project , okay , if you can make out of marketing : obviously . project manager : the money from this project . marketing : if the bottom line is positive . project manager : yes , okay i do n't mind to convince the the management , user interface : project manager : okay . the management says , okay , so they they do n't want certain facilities , which it 's already worked , okay , they want something uh new , okay . i think uh like uh speech recognit definitely they will agree , i do n't think they 'll say no for that , okay . and uh i hope i can convince the management on that , okay . so if you have any uh new ideas , okay , for uh your you can always come up and uh you can tell me if you need any uh s special , okay , coordination , okay , between any uh technical companies , which you can uh hide their technology backup , okay , for your uh functional design or technical design , okay , then i am ready to do that . and uh what 's your comments about uh </s>
<s> why did marketing think highly of speech recognition command ? </s> marketing : i 'll explain myself here now in the sense that uh in a in the recent surveys , uh from the ages fr from fifteen to thirty-five , eighty percent are willing to spend more money for something as fancy as trendy . project manager : marketing : twenty-five euros , uh that 's that 's a preson reasonable price . that 's a market price right now . now if we 're gon na take a risk , and push this up a bit , make it more expensive , but give them added things that they do n't have now , then it w it could possibly sell . obviously the risk is there . too expensive , they 're not gon na buy . but , i think uh there 's one other thing interesting two things that are interesting is that uh from the fifteen to thirty-five year-old group , which always spends more money on trendy new things , speech recognition is requested . industrial designer : speech recognition ? . marketing : and we 're talking between seventy-five to ninety percent of this group is willing to pay for speech recognition on a remote . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : obviously , we ca n't make a remote into a computer , but maybe simple commands . i dunno , louder , softer , on , off . that might be a possibility , even though it costs more , to be the first on the market to produce this . project manager : marketing : thirty-five percent say they 're too difficult to use . so we have to figure out a way of making it um more user friendly . uh fifty percent say they ca n't find the remote half the time . industrial designer : marketing : so maybe one word speech recognition commands , say remote , and there 's a beep beep beep , and they can find it through , you know , ten tons of newspapers , magazines , whatever you have at home . project manager : marketing : but , in the cost that uh the management is looking for , that 's not gon na be possible . but if it 's trendy , if it 's fancy , it 's got some colour to it , if it 's very easy easy to use , if it 's got simple remote speech remote uh control , like i said , louder , softer , change channel , on , off , remote , it goes beep beep , i can find my my remote without spending half a day looking for it and getting all upset 'cause i ca n't turn the tv on . so we 're gon na have to look at it in a in this global idea , with the ideas of the industrial uh design . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about the speech recognition command ? </s> industrial designer : so that uh you have enough uh juice to do all these fancy things . user interface : it seems also like with the speech recognition , yeah , it 's a great feature , but if you 're watching tv , there 's a lot of ambient sound , and it 's words . it 's not just , you know , noises like something hitting . it 's actual speech , so then you have to make sure that the speech recognizer is good enough to filter out the tv speech , and the the user 's speech . otherwise , you can say remote . industrial designer : off . user interface : but if someone on the screen is saying the same thing , all of a sudden , you have someone in a movie saying off and your screen dies , because they 've triggered the remote control and it 's turned off your tv . so , i think if we can find a speech recognizer that can handle those types of problems , then yeah , it 'd be a really good marketing gimmick . but , i think we seriously need to consider how that would impact the situation . industrial designer : very good point . marketing : because tha w with speech recognition uh th i 'm not that good at that idea user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but th if it 's a one-word recognition , 'cause i know with telephones and cars and things i 've seen in the states , user interface : yeah . marketing : a friend of mine says call mom , and it calls up mom . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about functional design of the product features . </s> industrial designer : so um well i i figured uh we should um identify some user requirements , and from my experience , i wan na uh , and from research i did , uh the the device has to turn the television on and off the first time you press on the big button , you ca n't uh ca n't have like uh waffling on this point , you know . project manager : industrial designer : really have it needs to be able y y have to be able to find it . because one of the biggest problems with remote controls is finding them . so uh , i also , since we have to establish our corporate image on the basis of this new product , thought we better look at things that are popular and um ex go beyond those , and , as i said in the first meeting , um and then uh we might wan na talk eventually about the materials that are appropriate to use in uh in the construction , especially in the the uh the outside of the product project manager : industrial designer : so that it gives the appearance , and it is reliable , and so forth . i did a little history on uh the the uh remote controls and when they were invented and so forth , so , i guess this guy zenith uh created the flashmatic , which i kinda like the idea , 'cause it made me think of um um maybe the remote control made a big flash when uh you turn the tv on and off , that might be interesting . and um so it was highly directional flash light that uh you could turn the picture on and off , and the sound on and off , and change channels c so i think um those are still requirements we have today , uh fifty years later . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh it was really a pioneering innovation , but it was uh sensitive to the sun , so that uh it would get would start off by the you 'd get it would easily cause um problems . so , uh i in addition to uh looking at the um uh the functional requir so all these devices are examples of where uh mm they represent examples that are available today which i think the one in the middle is r um really uh something to keep in mind . marketing : fantastic . user interface : industrial designer : it 'd be easy to find . and um it would uh y you 'd you could throw it at things if if the tv did n't turn on and off , you could use it for something else . and since i 'm not really um industrial designer , i did n't really know what to do with this slide . but um i just took some different uh schematics and i put them into this , and i guess this is what a slide might look like if you were drawing a circuit board . i do n't know why um we were asked to do this . so , uh personal preferences , um user interface : industrial designer : i think we could uh i i 'm really thinking outside the box here , and i think that we should consider perhaps having an an an a a size uh a remote control that changes in size depending on the user preference . user interface : industrial designer : so something that 's very very flexible and inflatable and then you could shrink it . i think um it could either be you could go either one extreme , be very colourful , or you could make it clear , and um kind of blend in with things , so you did n't have to um uh have a problem with the th the decoration of the of the user 's home . um i think uh it needs to be waterproof , because uh sometimes they fall into cups project manager : industrial designer : and , you know , it might be out by the swimming pool or something like that . um if you uh mi one of one of my requirements was about needs t to tell you when it 's done its job or not , because half the time , i keep pushing on the remote control , and i do n't know if it 's actually understood my message , so i think it should give you some sort of an oral cue . and uh , course i never wan na replace the battery . so , marketing : </s>
<s> what features did user interface think the remote control should have for its buttons ? </s> user interface : yeah , and that 's fine . okay . so , basically , the method that we usually use in the user interface design is that we need to look at what people like and what people do n't like about existing products . so , in our case , existing remote controls . and then , what the good ideas are , and what the bad ideas are , and why they 're bad and good , which is n't always as obvious . we seem to have intuitions about why things are good or things are bad , but when you look , technically , at how it works , sometimes that 's not the case . then we need to decide what functionalities we really want to keep , 'cause that 'll feed into both ed 's work and christine 's work . um and then what the remote control should look like , obviously , once we 've got a good idea of what the functionalities are . so , in terms of the functionalities that we need , you obviously need to be able to turn the tv on and off . you need to change channels , both by directly going to a specific channel or by channel surfing . you need to be able to control the volume and then control any menus on the tv to regulate contrast or whatever . so , the problems that people have expressed is that there 's too many buttons on remote controls , in general . the buttons it 's not clear what they 're supposed to do . um often , you need to know specific button sequences to get certain functionalities done , um which you do n't necessarily always remember , especially if it 's a functionality that you do n't use very often . and that the buttons are too small . so , here we 've got two examples where here on the left-hand side , you can see a remote control that has lots and lots of buttons . industrial designer : user interface : the buttons , in a lot of cases , are tiny . um they 're hard to see , and okay , they 're labelled , but the labels do n't necessarily tell you too much . whereas , on the other side , you have a much simpler remote control that i think basically has the minimum functionalities that are needed . and it sort of looks simpler and just less imposing when you first look at it . so , i would be inclined to go sort of towards this , in terms of design , rather than this . and if there 's specific functionalities that require more buttons , then we can figure out how to do it with existing um buttons . so my personal preferences are to keep the number of buttons to a limit , or to a minimum , sorry , make frequently used buttons bigger and more strategically placed , so like the on button being really obvious one , the channel changing and the volume , and to keep the design basically sleek and simple . project manager : click mm . user interface : which , i think ties into what christine and ed have both said fairly reasonably . um so , that 's pretty much it , an i do n't know if you guys have any questions or industrial designer : oh , it 's um , seems very understandable . clearly your research and uh and ours uh heading in the same direction , and um uh the only thing that i saw missing from uh your your research that we found was this uh ability to find the doggone thing when you need it . marketing : user interface : yes , that 's true . yeah . industrial designer : so uh , you know , but that 's okay . that 's why we 're all here at the table , so that if we think of it and our research indicates certain things and um w we it 's complementary . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i also think that um uh th f the the feel of it is uh , when you hold it , is something that um uh was expressed more in in in in my uh design user interface : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : and that 's logical and normal 'cause those are the parameters that an industrial designer 's more thinking about , th th the look and the feel , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and uh , you 're user interface : oh , that 's definitely a very important factor , especially to users who are gon na be buying the thing and then using it almost on an daily basis in a lot of cases , i think . </s>
<s> what features did project manager recommend to be incorporated in the new remote control ? </s> project manager : yeah , let me uh interrupt you uh if you can add other facility , other feature , like uh unbreakable . okay , because uh especially today , you know , you have the family and the kids , user interface : project manager : okay , and the kids throw it and they they play with their remotes and . industrial designer : run over it with a car . project manager : yes . okay , so if you can add the feature , okay , for your uh fabric whatever in your outline design okay , with unbreakable , okay , i think that will give a lot of advantage for our product , if i 'm not wrong . maybe you can uh add it in that . industrial designer : good idea . good idea , i 'll i 'll uh um yes , very good . project manager : okay , uh marketing : i think verbally we can we can pretty much sell . project manager : i will i will send you a mail , okay ? the project may be the the project aim , okay . at the end of the day , the company uh wants to make at least uh the fifty million euro . okay , and uh of course the price will be very reasonable on the the sales side . okay , that maybe eddie will talk to you about uh how much uh the price and uh what 's uh how much its cost for the manufacturing and how much it 's going to be we sell in the market . okay . then uh you can come back with your feedback . and i i have one maybe the suggestion or opinion . this remote control , okay , it can be for like universal , to use for any tv . okay , and it will be slim , okay , and uh industrial designer : not fat ? project manager : not fat . industrial designer : not fat , huh . project manager : okay . industrial designer : might be hard to find , though . project manager : yep . but let 's try it , okay , with the different uh the designs , okay , the functional designs . industrial designer : oh , okay . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee . we 've received no apologies for absence this morning . can i ask if there are any declarations of interest from members , please ? no . okay . thank you . item 3 this morning then is a scrutiny session on early childhood education and care , and i 'm very pleased to welcome julie morgan am , deputy minister for health and social services ; jo-anne daniels , director of communities and tackling poverty at welsh government ; and nicola edwards , deputy director of the childcare , play and early years division in welsh government . thank you all for your attendance . we ’ re very much looking forward to the session . if you 're happy , we 'll go straight into questions , and the first ones are from hefin david . hefin david am : good morning , deputy minister . what are your primary objectives ? is it supporting the development of children or getting parents into work ? julie morgan am : well , i think you 'll be aware from the range of programmes that we 've got that we do feel it ’ s important to support both children and parents . there 's obviously lots of evidence to show how important the early years are for children , how important they are for their development , and so , that is one of our primary objectives . but we also know how important it is for parents to have stable jobs , reasonably paid , so that can also help with the development of the children . so , we really see it that our plans are for both parents and children , and we believe that a high-quality , early-childhood education and care system can provide that . and , of course , in terms of when we talk about jobs as well , i think it ’ s really important to remember that the childcare system is a big employer as well and a very important employer . so that , actually , itself provides jobs . hefin david am : so , the evidence we 've seen suggests that , historically , governments in the uk and devolved have focused on primarily getting parents into work . so , are you suggesting then that your focus is to change that and move towards early child development ? julie morgan am : no , what i 'm saying is that we want to give parents the opportunity to work . we do n't want childcare to be a barrier to parents working because we think that working is one the best routes out of poverty , but we do also want to make sure that children have the greatest experience that they can have in the early years . so , we see it as one . hefin david am : okay . and that 's quite a policy challenge to deliver both at the same time . julie morgan am : the situation as it is is complex , and i think it needs simplifying . it is a challenge , but it ’ s probably one of the most important challenges we 've got in government , because what we offer to families with young children is one of the most important things we do . hefin david am : and in your evidence to the committee , you said that the welsh government ’ s approach 'will build on a wide variety of programmes that are continually developing in order to support parents , families and children during the early years . ' and you 've just said you want to simplify that . how do you simplify that , particularly with regard to the provision of funding and the way these things connect from the birth of a child into school ? how will simplification look , and what will happen ? julie morgan am : well , we 're not at the stage of being able to say what it will look like at the moment , but we 're looking at ways of simplifying , because i think it ’ s absolutely right , it is a very complex system , because it ’ s grown up from all different routes . but we are having lots of pilot projects that are looking at ways of simplifying the system . we have got pathway projects in , i think it ’ s eight local authorities , who are looking at ways of joining up the whole system . so , we are looking at that , and i absolutely except that it is very complex and we want to find ways of making it simpler and easier to understand . so , we are working with local authorities and health boards to see how we can actually work together and simplify things . hefin david am : and it 's good to hear that that 's your objective . can i just come back to the first thing you said : 'we ca n't say yet what we 're going to do ' ? so , when will we have a policy plan and something that we can interrogate in more detail ? julie morgan am : well , i think we are near getting to an announcement where we will be able to say what direction we 're going in , and because we have had— . some of this work has been going on for a year or so , and we 're getting the results of those pathfinder projects coming in . so , when we do have all those results , we will be able to say the direction that we want to go in , and i hope we 'll be able to do that very soon . hefin david am : before christmas ? julie morgan am : i hope so . hefin david am : okay . and finally from me— julie morgan am : i 'm sorry i ca n't say too much about that because we have n't actually— . we need to— . hefin david am : well , it does sound like something is imminent . okay . and that 's as far as you 're willing to go . and if that 's as far as you 're willing to go , then i 'll stop asking . lynne neagle am : i 've got a supplementary from siân . julie morgan am : yes , that 's fine . sian gwenllian am : i just want to understand a little about the pilot , the pathfinders in eight local authority areas . is the focus there on the child or is it on parents returning to work ? julie morgan am : the focus is on an early years system , but we 've worked both locally and nationally . so , it 's looking at both . i mean , actually , i think , perhaps , nicola , would you like to or one of you like to describe one of the programmes ? sian gwenllian am : and can you just explain the vision ? is it a child-centred early years provision that we 're thinking of in these pathfinder— ? jo-anne daniels : so , in 'prosperity for all ' , we set out that early years was one of the key priority areas , and within that we said that we wanted to create a more joined-up and more responsive system . so , when we talk about a system , we 're talking about the services that are provided by health boards , so health visiting , midwifery , speech and language support , other kinds of therapeutic services , as well as all the important services that local authorities are providing , such as support for parenting , advice and guidance , employment support and childcare , obviously . and we 've got eight pathfinders . i 'll try and remember each of them . so , flintshire , newport , blaenau gwent , neath port talbot , swansea , ceredigion , pembrokeshire—and then i 've missed one , i think , because i 've only got to seven—who have been working with us to look at how all of those services are currently delivered in their local area and whether and how they can reorganise those services to improve accessibility , to improve take-up , but essentially to improve the efficacy of those programmes in terms of supporting children , but often , obviously , in supporting children you have to support parents too and support the home . sian gwenllian am : so , would you say it 's a child-centred approach ? jo-anne daniels : absolutely , because it 's about making sure that we deliver the best start in life for children in wales , but obviously parents are a critical element of that , so ca n't be excluded . lynne neagle am : and how long have they been going for ? jo-anne daniels : so , those eight pathfinders started their work in—i think it was—february this year . and they 're still in the very early stages in terms of actually unpicking and mapping the current provision of services across their areas and then moving on to the stage where they 'll develop proposals for how they might change the delivery of early years . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . julie . julie morgan am : just to say also , the one in flintshire is also testing the impact of consistent funding rates for education and childcare . so , that 's been going longer than the others . so , that 's another important area because there 's an evaluation of that project under way at the moment . lynne neagle am : thank you . jo-anne daniels : sorry , but caerphilly was the one that i forgot to mention . lynne neagle am : oh dear . [ laughter . ] hefin david am : that 's absolutely unforgivable . [ laughter . ] lynne neagle am : hefin . [ laughter . ] julie morgan am : very significant . hefin david am : in your report , the 'alignment of the childcare offer for wales to the foundation phase ' , one of the recommendations was that 'the welsh government , local authority education and childcare policy and delivery teams could merge ' . so , looking behind the scenes , those disparate parts of policy , delivering the foundation phase and childcare offer should merge . is that the case ? has that been put under way and should we be looking at this structure in more depth ? julie morgan am : well , probably not at the structure at this time because the report that you 're referring to was looking at the first year of the delivery of the childcare offer and it did make a number of points , which we have taken on board . for example , we issued guidance last year regarding the delivery of the foundation phase , which supports widening the number of non-maintained settings that are able to deliver early education and we 're also supporting co-location and partnership working between education and childcare providers through our capital investment programme . i think it 's about £81 million that we put into the capital investment where we are developing childcare facilities co-located with the education facilities , because that was one of the things that came out from this report you 're referring to . and , i mean , obviously , early years is one of the key priorities within 'prosperity for all ' and , obviously , education sits within one portfolio with the minister for education , and childcare is with me . but we 're doing what we can to work together to try to bring those together , and that was one of the proposals in that report . but it 's still very early to think about , at this stage , a structural change . hefin david am : and i remember when you were on the committee here with me , sitting next to me , we had those discussions about co-location . i know the problem with not having co-location is that you could end up seeing a child travelling between three or more locations during the course of a day . are you suggesting now that the actions you 're taking will resolve that issue universally , or will it lead to a piecemeal resolution ? and , if so , to what extent , what percentage of children will see that resolved as an issue ? julie morgan am : certainly , the co-location is not going to solve it universally because although we 've been able to develop a lot of new facilities , or build on old facilities , there will be a lot of areas that we wo n't have covered . so , i ca n't say that there 's going to be a situation where everything is going to be co-located because i do n't think that would be feasible , and , for some of the providers , they would n't be in a position to move to a school . but ideally it 's a good situation , but , certainly , i think the discussions that there were on the committee , it 's not ideal to take children for long distances between different providers , let alone the effect it has on the climate change issue . it 's whether it 's good for children as well . so , i ca n't say that they will ever be co-located , but as i said in response to your earlier question , we are encouraging the development of the foundation phase in non-maintained settings , which , obviously , is quite significant . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . i 've got some questions now from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . what is the welsh government doing to address the big differences in the amount of early childhood education and care provision available in different parts of wales ? julie morgan am : right . well , thank you very much for that question . i mean , obviously , it would be good to see a greater degree of consistency , but i think it 's important to acknowledge that there are reasons for that variation . now , early education , of course , is the responsibility of the minister for education , and we are aware that different local authorities have adopted different patterns of providing early education . for example , local authorities are funded to provide 10 hours minimum of the foundation phase for three and four-year-olds across wales , but there 's quite a variance in how much is actually provided , with some local authorities providing a lot more historically . so , it does mean that there is a different pattern across wales , according to what local authorities do . but what i could say is , of course , the quality is very good , as the estyn reports have shown ; that the quality provided , the delivery of the foundation phase , is very good . but it does vary in terms of what is offered throughout wales , and that is the decision of the local authorities , and it is a historical thing . i refer to this pilot in flint , which is trying to test paying the same rate for foundation phase and childcare . we 're going to have an independent evaluation on that soon , in november this year , so that will help us . obviously , i think local authorities ' role in all this is absolutely crucial because they are the local , nearest people to decide how things develop in their own areas . and then , of course , we 've got flying start , which is geographically targeted , which uses the data from income benefit to decide which are the areas where that is being delivered . and that is delivered where the highest proportion of children aged nought to three are living in income-dependent households . so , again , that determines the pattern throughout wales . with flying start being geographically targeted , with the education being determined by the local authorities about how much there is , we know that there is a variance throughout wales . we 'd like to see facilities developed in each local authority throughout wales that would answer the needs of the families and the children in those areas . lynne neagle am : before you move on , janet , siân 's got a supplementary . sian gwenllian am : just in terms of the foundation phase , there have been cuts , of course , in expenditure in that phase . how concerned are you about that and the impact that that will have on the way in which the foundation phase is taught in our schools ? the foundation phase is now part of the education improvement grant , which has seen a reduction of 10 per cent , and it has to compete against other expenditure streams within that greater pot of funding . so , are you concerned that money is being lost and that that will have an impact on standards in the foundation phase ? julie morgan am : i have n't seen any evidence . obviously , i must reiterate the foundation phase does come under the minister for education , but i have n't seen any evidence of any standards being lowered , and the reports from estyn are very good . in fact , i think the foundation phase is one of our great joys , that we absolutely celebrate it , and so i 'd be very concerned if i thought there was any drop in standards in the foundation phase , and i certainly have n't had any evidence of that . i would want to guard against that . sian gwenllian am : exactly , but if there are fewer teaching assistants in the system because of the cuts , it 's going to impact on standards , at the end of the day . julie morgan am : i think we have to be very careful to see that lower standards are not implemented , because it was groundbreaking when we brought it in , and it has proved to be a great success , so we want to make sure that 's guarded . lynne neagle am : thank you . janet . janet finch-saunders am : going back to my original question about the big differences in amounts of early childhood education and care provision in different parts of wales , the welsh and uk governments have followed a demand-driven approach to the childcare market , with subsidies mainly given to working parents . is that a mistake ? should it be more universally available ? julie morgan am : well , some of our provision is universally available in certain areas . for example , the flying start provision is universally available in geographically defined areas , and i think that 's very important , because that does mean that there is n't stigma , and so , in those areas , everybody can take advantage of it , and yet it is reaching those who are most in need because it 's reaching those areas . so , i think that there is a purpose behind that . in terms of when you say demand led , could you elaborate on that ? janet finch-saunders am : i know that—we 've just had a useful briefing from david dallimore , and , basically , there is this theory that there are too many resources—the demand-driven approach is based more on certain factors : geographic spread in terms of it being more universal , and whether that 's the right way . how do children then mix with peers from different backgrounds , in their own peer or age group ? julie morgan am : it is demand— nicola edwards : [ inaudible . ] —because the offer is targeted at working parents— janet finch-saunders am : yes , yes . nicola edwards : —obviously , then the amount of availability is based on how many parents apply for it and take it up . is that the context of demand led in that— right , okay . julie morgan am : it is universally available to all parents who meet the eligibility criteria of working , and i think what you 're saying is that it should be available to everybody . lynne neagle am : i think the point that janet 's making is that some areas have traditionally got more childcare anyway because they have traditionally had more demand in those areas , so there 's not a level playing field to start from . is that correct ? julie morgan am : i think that , historically , that is definitely true , and when you look at the take-up of the childcare offer , it 's certainly taken up in some areas with a very high take-up rate . i think ynys môn was nearly 90 per cent or something— sian gwenllian am : they need more money , because they have n't got enough funding . dawn bowden am : so does everywhere . sian gwenllian am : no , to meet the demand . julie morgan am : in other areas , it 's much , much lower—in some of the cities , i know . so , there is a big range in take-up— janet finch-saunders am : so , do you intend to bring something forward to address that ? julie morgan am : we are planning to extend it . we 're looking at the possibility of extending it to parents who are in education and training . so , we are widening the offer , yes . obviously , we have to wait for the evaluation of that . it would be great to be able to offer it to absolutely everybody , but obviously we have got the finance to look at in terms of how we do that . but we are certainly planning to expand it . lynne neagle am : we 've got questions on the offer in a little while . janet . janet finch-saunders am : does the welsh government intend to develop an integrated approach , then , against all settings ? if so , given the current inconsistencies , how can quality be assured ? julie morgan am : we are developing a more integrated approach towards the early years . as i 've said , we 're trying to have the foundation phase operating in more non-maintained settings , and we 're already developing that . but estyn and ciw will continue to inspect and regulate the early years sector to ensure standards , and , since january 2019 , ciw and estyn have moved to joint inspections for the non-maintained settings that are offering the foundation phase . so , that is a very positive move , i think , and is absolutely making sure that standards are maintained , because if we are having the foundation phase in non-maintained settings , that is a challenge where we want to be sure that the standards and the philosophy of the foundation phase are maintained . so , we have got the system of inspection to ensure that . janet finch-saunders am : and finally from me , what specific steps have been put in place to take forward the commitments from the welsh government 's 2017 childcare/play early years workforce plan to build a better understanding of the workforce 's welsh language skills to enable support for the sector to be targeted and to identify where capacity needs to be built for the future to meet the needs of the early years sector in a bilingual wales ? julie morgan am : we think this is very important , and we 're pleased that 29 per cent of children taking up the childcare offer are in welsh or bilingual settings , so we think that 's very good . we have established a specific programme to develop welsh language skills in the childcare and play workforce with the national centre for learning welsh , to develop workplace welsh language skills across the sector . so , we 're actually working with that , and i think you 've done something with those recently , have n't you ? i do n't know if you want to— nicola edwards : yes . so , we have a stakeholder group where we 've brought together a variety of people with an interest in the early years , childcare and play sectors , and we had a presentation just last month from the national language centre about the education programmes that they 're rolling out , and how this is all coming together , which is quite interesting . we 've been working quite carefully to make sure that the variety of work-based learning programmes that we provide and offer are also available in welsh and bilingually . recruitment and retention within the childcare and play sector is quite challenging in any case . recruiting and retaining staff with really good welsh language skills adds an extra dimension to it , and that it 's a point that mudiad meithrin makes to us quite regularly , that they do struggle to find staff with the right skills . so , upskilling the existing workforce is a key part of it , but also doing more to attract people in with welsh language skills in the first place in terms of the training courses that we 're taking forward , and thinking about that in the context of the targets within cymraeg 2050 and the aim to get to one million welsh speakers . so , as the deputy minister said , we 've got quite a number of children accessing the offer in welsh-medium or bilingual settings at the moment . we 're going to be doing some baselining work against that in terms of local authorities ' welsh in education strategic plans and education places , and what we can then do to increase the number of childcare places in parallel with that so that you can make sure that you start that pathway through learning welsh , interacting with education and childcare through welsh at a much earlier stage . lynne neagle am : suzy , you 've got a supplementary . suzy davies am : just on this early point , anybody who 's been through the welsh education system , which is 20 years now , will have some welsh language skills , obviously to differing degrees . for the entrants that are coming into childcare training now , there are going to be very few of them , realistically , with no welsh at all , so what 's actually being incorporated into the early years care training to make sure , at that stage , that the welsh language skills are being developed , as opposed to an add-on later on ? nicola edwards : you 're quite right . most people coming through the education system will have some awareness of welsh although i think it 's probably important to remember we do also employ people from outside of wales . suzy davies am : yes , but the majority , being realistic . nicola edwards : but they do n't necessarily have welsh that is appropriate . they 've got welsh that they 've developed in school . it 's not necessarily appropriate for then teaching that language to children , who may be coming from families who do n't use welsh at home . so , that might be the first interaction that child has with the language . so , there 's a lot of that in terms of child development and how you develop children bilingually , particularly if they 're coming from english-medium homes , and reinforcing the language in language choices . there will also be some people who are , perhaps—we see this quite a lot in the office—quite confident in terms of speaking welsh but less so in terms of some of the paperwork , the reporting , the writing and the interacting with parents more officially , which we need to think about as well . but it is mainly about getting people to a point where they can transmit that language onwards in a confident and meaningful way . suzy davies am : okay . and it 's ingrained in the early years training . okay . that 's fine . thank you for that . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : just before we move on , you said that 29 per cent of the take-up of the childcare offer is either through welsh or is bilingual . have you got any figures about how many children are accessing it in welsh only ? nicola edwards : we will have . it becomes— . with the way we do it , it 's because of the way that the setting defines their language category , and that 's how we collect it . we do go down to individual child level , although it 's anonymised , data collection on a termly basis . so i 'll have a look and see if we can send you through the last term . lynne neagle am : maybe if the committee could have a note , that would be really useful . nicola edwards : yes , that 's fine . lynne neagle am : we 've got some questions now on childcare from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . deputy minister , the evaluation of the childcare offer , when it was published last year , said that there was very little evidence currently available to determine what its impact was . you 're going to be producing a second evaluation in november this year ; do you expect to see some indications now of the impact ? julie morgan am : well , the evaluation of the first year of the childcare offer was very limited , because the childcare offer was n't available throughout the whole of wales . and it was a very early implementation phase . so , obviously it takes time to grow . and the evaluation for year 2 , i think , will also show a limited impact for the same reasons . the offer became available across the whole of wales only last april . so we 've only got since last april that it 's actually been fully available . and the parental survey was released to parents in june 2019 , therefore any impact on parents in the authorities coming on board in the second year will also be negligible . so , it 's from the next one , however , we hope that we will get more information . dawn bowden am : so you think , by the time we get to november 2020 , you might have a better picture . julie morgan am : the evaluation will be more meaningful , we think , then , yes . dawn bowden am : okay . i take that point . what the first year 's evaluation did show , however , was that 94 per cent of respondents said that they were already using formal childcare before the offer came into place . a couple of things , really : are you surprised at that , and is that likely to inform the way that you develop the offer in the future ? julie morgan am : no , i 'm not surprised at all . when it started off , it was only available in seven local authorities . in terms of how the families found out that it was available , they found it out through the childcare providers , where they already had their children there . so it was absolutely what we would have expected , and that will continue . but , of course , we were not able to fully advertise the childcare offer until it was available in all the local authorities , which was last april . so we are planning , this autumn , quite a big push now to try to make it available to everybody—so everybody knows about it . so , no , this is the pattern we would have expected , and i think anybody who 's involved in starting up something in childcare will know you have to wait a number of years before you actually see it being fully taken up . dawn bowden am : i guess the question that it raises in my mind is : does this mean that , actually , it has n't been an incentive to get somebody back into work , because they were already in work and already had childcare provision ? what you 've done is you 've directed money to people who were already spending that money anyway . so it has n't been a move towards getting people into work because they could n't afford childcare . julie morgan am : well i think that that is something that we are moving towards , because the take-up of the offer is actually increasing each month , which is why i call it a great success . at the end of july , we hit almost 16,000 children accessing the offer , which obviously means that there are 16,000 families benefiting from this , and the feedback that we have had from parents is that they have been able to— . they 've got more money available , which is obvious , which is great , because obviously more money is available to plunge into the economy and carry out that sort of thing , and we 've got examples of parents who 've been supported into work through programmes like parents , childcare and employment to begin with , and then have gone on to access the offer . so , that 's again a progression . so , i think we are seeing signs that people are moving on , have got more ability to be flexible in the work that they 're doing , but i hope that when we look at it again , we will be able to see people actually moving into work because of having the access to childcare . dawn bowden am : okay . before— lynne neagle am : are you going to move on ? siân 's got a supplementary . sian gwenllian am : just a question on funding for the childcare offer . if you foresee that there 's going to be more people going to be taking up that offer through the fact that you 're marketing it more , what if the same situation arises that has happened on anglesey ? the take-up has been very good there , but the money that the welsh government has been allocating to anglesey does n't match that . what if it happens in every local authority right across wales ? are you confident there 's going to be plenty of money available to respond to that demand ? julie morgan am : based on the current levels of take-up and looking at the rates of increase each month , we expect to spend in the region of £50 million to £55 million in this financial year . our published plans already include the provision of £40 million , and we 're absolutely committed to making available the total funding that is needed to deliver on the offer . it is fantastic to see the offer being so well received on ynys môn , recognising , as janet said earlier , it is demand led . we are managing it within the normal budgetary process . local authorities will get the full funding that is needed . it 's this year now that the big increase has happened ; the previous two years— sian gwenllian am : so , local authorities wo n't have to find the extra money out of their own pots . julie morgan am : no , absolutely not . this is funded by the welsh government . sian gwenllian am : yes . you can assure them . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . you 've already alluded to this in answer to janet earlier on , about extending the childcare offer to those in training and education . you also talk about 'on the cusp ' of returning to work . so , i 'm not quite sure what 'on the cusp ' of returning to work is , but from the committee 's point of view , we 're very pleased that you 've reached that conclusion , because it was one of the recommendations that we had following the scrutiny of the bill . so , can you say a little more about that , bearing in mind that i 'm also conscious that you 've told hefin you 're going to be making an announcement shortly ? so you may not be able to say too much . but a little bit more about the inclusion of parents in training and education , what 'on the cusp of returning to work ' is—what that means from your perspective—and how you 've arrived at that decision now , six months into the programme . what is it that 's made you move towards that conclusion ? julie morgan am : well , obviously , the children and young persons committee made a very good case for education and training , in particular ; i think that was one of the things that was at the top of the list . what we 've committed to do is to review the programme , particularly looking at how we could bring in education and training , and that review will report early next year . so , early next year , we will have a view on how we could go forward . but the other thing that 's also happened is that , obviously , with the new first minister , that was one of his manifesto commitments—that he would bring education and training in . so , we 're obviously following the— dawn bowden am : because that was one of the key drivers for that as well . julie morgan am : yes , so that is another of the key drivers , as you said—the committee and what the first minister said . there are a wealth of programmes supporting parents into education , training or work , and many of those do provide support with childcare costs . but we have , by rolling out this programme , the childcare programme , highlighted some gaps where people have felt that they , particularly people who are in full-time education—and i can think of a number of people who are actually doing phd studies—who are—the letters may have come in from some of your constituents—not able to access the offer as things stand . so , we are looking at people who are in full-time education and training . we 're using the definition by the office for national statistics , are n't we , in terms of education and training . and on 'on the cusp of work ' , maybe that will have to be something we have to look at differently—those people who are actually maybe undertaking very short training programmes , preparation for work , maybe actually having interviews , where they need help with childcare , that they 're sort of almost there . so , they may have to be dealt with in a different way , but i think we do want to look at those . this is expanding the offer ; it 's not making it universal , but it 's moving on . dawn bowden am : so , what are the— ? overall , then , what are the factors that you 're having to take into account ? is it going to be what is needed in order to encourage people back into work ? is it going to be cost ? is it going to be a combination of all of those things ? what are going to be the key factors that you 're going to be looking at ? julie morgan am : well , the position now is that anybody who fulfills the criteria in terms of the number of hours they work , we would look at that in terms of education and training , and then , this expression 'on the cusp of work ' we may have to look at differently , because they may not fulfil those numbers in terms of number of hours training . so , we 'll get a criteria , and then they will have access to the childcare offer . but i just have to emphasise that there are ways of getting help with childcare already , and we wanted to make sure we do n't duplicate . that 's why this field is so complex , shall we say , because there 's so many different ways that you can actually get help , and we want to be sure that we do n't duplicate— dawn bowden am : sorry , julie . so , all of this is going to be incorporated in this announcement that you 're going to be making shortly— julie morgan am : no , this review will report early next year . dawn bowden am : okay . my final question— lynne neagle am : before you move on , sorry , i 've got a couple of supplementaries . i 've got suzy , then siân . sorry , dawn . suzy davies am : just on the cost element , because if you do roll out this programme , obviously , on the back of evidence through a review , it is going to cost extra money . early years is one of the eight priority areas for government . there are fairly generous barnett consequentials coming from the comprehensive spending review and announcements on schools from the uk government , and while i accept that you 've only got annual commitments there , they 're still substantial . how much money have you managed to secure for early years from the most recent announcement , and when have you planned to actually use that , maybe for some of this work ? julie morgan am : have you got some information on that ? nicola edwards : the budget process is ongoing internally , so i think 'secured ' is probably a slightly premature phrase . suzy davies am : am i allowed to ask instead how much you 've asked for , then ? all i 'm after is some reassurance that you will be getting some of this money , and as it is one of the eight priorities , certainly we would expect to see you getting a substantial amount of money for early years . julie morgan am : as one of the government 's priorities , we would expect to get any money that came as a result of any barnett consequentials . suzy davies am : okay . and it will be in the draft budget that we know for sure if it is successful . julie morgan am : it 's all in the process— lynne neagle am : and the committee will want to look very carefully at that , obviously . julie morgan am : it 's in the process at the moment . suzy davies am : there we are . just giving you a good warning . sian gwenllian am : how much would it cost to move to a child-centred approach , which means that every child would be able to access the childcare offer , rather than doing it from parents ? julie morgan am : we are looking at that . we 're having a longer-term review , in terms of what it would mean if every child had access to the childcare offer . we do n't have those figures yet . we 've got the one review looking at bringing in education and training . that should report early next year , and then we 've got another longer-term review , looking at what a universal offer would mean . sian gwenllian am : do we know how many children we 're talking about ? nicola edwards : yes . so , there are approximately , at any given time , around 73,000 three and four-year-olds in wales . there 's some slight rounding in the numbers there , but approximately 73,000 at any given time . based on the current eligibility criteria for the offer , it 's about 34,000 children , we believe , are eligible . this does , of course , vary , depending on a whole range of different factors , and we certainly know from what we 're seeing from the offer that , even where people are entitled to something , they do n't necessarily take it up . and even if they do take it up , they do n't necessarily take up their full entitlement , which is also something that we 'd have to think about in terms of any modelling on costings . sian gwenllian am : so , half the children are in non-working families . nicola edwards : it 's because of the requirement that , in a two-parent household , both parents must be in work . sian gwenllian am : yes . two parent . okay . lynne neagle am : one of the points that the committee made very strongly in our report on the bill was that we wanted to see a much more child-centred focus , and one of the issues that came out in scrutiny was whether , actually , three and four-year-olds were the right age to be actually targeting if we 're looking at things like child development . have you given any consideration to the actual age group that 's covered when we know that , for many children , it 's the first 1,000 days that makes that fundamental difference ? julie morgan am : we are aware that there is a case that says that two years old is a very important time . we are looking at that as part of the overall longer review , yes . we are aware of the information and what you 're saying about the younger the better . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . dawn . dawn bowden am : yes , my final question , chair , thank you , is about the parent , childcare and employment programme , which is jointly funded by the european social fund and welsh government . it has been quite successful , in terms of its numbers anyway , in getting economically inactive parents into work . what are the plans for this programme , if and when we leave the eu and we lose the esf funding for that ? julie morgan am : well , the programme has recently been extended , with delivery continuing until june 2022 , with additional esf funding of £5.6 million . that 's recently happened , and obviously this programme provides intensive employment to parents who are not in education , employment or training or economically inactive and where the childcare is the main barrier , and it has been a very , very successful programme . so , the uk has guaranteed funding for all eu projects approved by december 2020 , and this includes the pace programme . i think there was also another— . i only heard it verbally . i heard some other guarantees on the radio recently from the uk treasury about guaranteeing some of these funds . i do n't know whether anybody else heard that . but the welsh government can only draw on the uk government guarantee for claims that are n't paid by the european commission , and so the current arrangements are staying in place . dawn bowden am : until when , sorry ? julie morgan am : well , june 2022 . dawn bowden am : oh , i see . yes . so , that 's when all the current commitments expire , basically . yes . so , we do n't know— . to do that it would have to be part of government planning in terms of— julie morgan am : well , we do n't know what 's happening with that— dawn bowden am : —what would happen beyond that . julie morgan am : —funding , but there have been some promises from the uk government recently , but nothing definite . dawn bowden am : yes , we 're not holding our breath . okay . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . siân 's got some specific questions now around the childcare funding ( wales ) act 2019 . sian gwenllian am : as we know , of course , the work with her majesty 's revenue and customs has ended , and i know you were n't the minister who initiated this process , but what exactly has gone wrong ? what are these issues that have come to light that have made you suspend that ? it 's very frustrating for us , as a committee , who scrutinised that extensively and raised a lot of concerns about that . and a lot of time has been spent talking about this funding bill , and money—£1 million , i understand—has been wasted , if you like , unnecessarily . so , what exactly has gone wrong ? why are n't you discussing these things with hmrc ? yes . so , thank you for that explanation . julie morgan am : i 've got more to say as well . sian gwenllian am : yes , but for your transparency around your particular view that it needs to be more flexible and expanded upon and , therefore , going down the hmrc route was— julie morgan am : it would have restricted us a lot . sian gwenllian am : yes . we knew that from the beginning . i mean , that 's , you know— . so , it was a principle decision rather than any sort of technical matters to do with the welsh language standards . that 's been cited as one kind of— . but i 'm really understanding more now that , really , what it 's about is that you want to have a more flexible , and expand on the offer and that this would curtail—going through hmrc would put limits on that . julie morgan am : that is one of the reasons , but there were issues about the welsh language , which we can go into in detail , if you 'd like . there were some issues about that . they would be able to process things bilingually , and i think that was probably told to the committee when we looked at the hmrc . but , in terms of the welsh language standards that the minister has to use , there would be some difficulties in them doing it . sian gwenllian am : but would you say that your main change came about because you wanted to be more flexible rather than any difficulties— julie morgan am : one of the major reasons , i think— sian gwenllian am : okay . good . julie morgan am : but there are— . as i say , there are other reasons . those technical reasons probably do end up being quite important— sian gwenllian am : but the committee was told by the previous minister that hmrc would n't have any problem at all with delivering according to the welsh language standards . julie morgan am : do you want to add something to this ? nicola edwards : so , in terms of some of the technical issues we had , if you want to start with the bilingual provision and the welsh language standards , hmrc do provide a bilingual service at the moment for their customers in line with their welsh language scheme , and i think we can all appreciate that schemes are quite different from the requirements of the standards . and there were some issues when we got into the detail of the standards that the welsh ministers are required to deliver to that caused some concerns in terms of how hmrc were going to do it , particularly in terms of the multiple it systems that go into building up the childcare services . so , for example , there are a number of what are called 'special characters ' in the welsh alphabet , such as the to bach , for example . the hmrc it system has some issues with that . sian gwenllian am : yes , well , with due respect , the to bach has always been there— nicola edwards : oh , yes , i completely agree . unfortunately , however— sian gwenllian am : —and hmrc would have been able to tell you , really early on , you would have thought , that it was— . i do n't really want to go into it , because i think we 've got to the crux of why hmrc was dropped . i think it 's been dropped because julie feels that the offer needs to be more flexible , and i can understand why you would say that . julie morgan am : if we bring in training and education , for example , we would n't be able to do that via the hmrc , it would have to be done by the local authorities . foster parents have to be done via the local authorities . any people of immigration status of no resource from public funds , that would have to be done via the local authorities . and with the local authorities also wanting to do it— . i mean , there are other things with using hmrc—if any changes were made with the english offer , for example , because this would be delivered via hmrc with the english offer , that would cause difficulties for the welsh offer . so , we wanted something more flexible . i do n't know if there 's anything more you want to add on that . jo-anne daniels : the only thing i 'd add is that—and , again , i think the minister has referred to this—the costs that hmrc presented us with at the end of the discovery phase were significantly higher than the costs that had initially been outlined and that we outlined to the committee in the regulatory impact assessment . so , our conclusion is that we can deliver a cheaper system and a system that has the flexibility that the deputy minister has referred to by working with local authorities rather than hmrc . so , there is an important issue around value for money as well and making sure that the investment that we 're making into developing the national system is one that—that , in a sense , that investment stays in wales . so , obviously , the money that we 're paying over to hmrc to run the system would be supporting hmrc and their employees wherever they may be based , many of them not based in wales ; investment in local authorities to administer the system means that we 're retaining more of that investment here . sian gwenllian am : well , i congratulate you on persuading local government and wlga to change their minds , because they actually told this committee that they favoured the hmrc option—and this is only going back a few months—because it will remove—and this is quoting them— 'it will remove the administrative burden of receiving applications and checking eligibility from local authorities'— blah , blah , blah , blah . so , they 've obviously changed their minds as well , which is , you know— . i congratulate you on that , but it does present us as a committee with a little bit of a problem , really , because , if we 're told one thing a few months ago and then we 're told something completely different today , you know , evidence—we have to go on evidence that we 've heard , and the evidence has changed now . julie morgan am : i think , during the period since it was discussed on the committee , the work with the hmrc has helped highlight to us where we needed to go . so , i think we did learn a lot and it certainly has helped show to us where we think is the best place to go . i would like to pay tribute to the local authorities , because they 've been great partners in this and they 're very positive about moving forward keeping the work . and there 's also a feeling that , because they are so much closer to the local public than hmrc is , they 're able to build up links with families and help with some of these difficult issues . because i 'm sure many of you may have had individual cases—i certainly have—where there 's been quite a lot of complexity about helping people fill in the forms and look at their eligibility . so , i say well done to the local authorities . and thanks to the hmrc , because we 've had nothing but a very positive relationship with them . lynne neagle am : suzy , you 've got a supplementary . suzy davies am : thank you . ms daniels , you referred to value for money . how much is it actually going to cost to change this system from being a temporary arrangement with local authorities to a permanent one ? and how much more is it going to cost for the more flexible system that you have in mind ? they 're not going to do this for nothing . how much extra are you giving them , and will they use it for this ? how are you ensuring it 's used for this ? jo-anne daniels : so , at the moment , local— . so , two things . just to start by saying the eligibility checking process is not undertaken by all 22 local authorities . suzy davies am : no , no , i realise that . yes , i got all that . jo-anne daniels : so , part of the reason for using 10 is to try to ensure that we build economies of scale and that we have a more efficient operation . those authorities that undertake that function are given a specific grant in order to do that . that grant is ring-fenced to that purpose . suzy davies am : could you give us an idea of the price tag ? jo-anne daniels : at the moment , it 's about £2.5 million . suzy davies am : okay , just as a round figure—that 's fine . nicola edwards : just for the administration . they get separate funding for the childcare , obviously . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . jo-anne daniels : so that , as i said , is a ring-fenced sum that they use to administer the offer . we are now starting the detailed work to define the new system requirements so that we will have a single application process across wales , moving forward . as part of that work , we 'll need to consider the detailed costings , but our initial estimate suggests that it would be less than the cost proposed by hmrc . suzy davies am : okay , when those costings are worked up , perhaps we could have a note comparing the two figures . jo-anne daniels : yes , we would be very happy to share more detail on that . suzy davies am : thank you . sian gwenllian am : if it became a universal offer , would those costs reduce ? would there be so much bureaucracy involved in checking eligibility and stuff if every child was open to the offer ? jo-anne daniels : so , clearly , if every child is eligible , then a large part of the process falls away in terms of the need to verify income and so on . that does n't mean that there 's no administration . for example , with the foundation phase , which is universally available , there is an application process and there is an administrative function that sits alongside that . at this point in time , i could n't give you any indication of— sian gwenllian am : but it would be substantially less , would n't it , because they would n't have to do all these eligibility checks and all those things ? nicola edwards : they would n't have to do the eligibility checks , but they would still have to make payments to the childcare providers and make sure they were paying for the right number of hours in respect of each child . so , parents would still need to tell them where their child was going , and there would still need to be some work alongside that . lynne neagle am : okay . siân , do you want to ask about the welsh language ? sian gwenllian am : i think we've— . i 'm happy with that . lynne neagle am : really— ? sian gwenllian am : i do n't think that that was the real reason why the change happened . julie morgan am : one of the reasons . lynne neagle am : nevertheless , the committee was given very concrete assurances that the welsh language side of this was going to be covered off . have you got anything that you want to add on that ? obviously , for us as a committee , we believe what we 're told when we are given assurances . so , that 's quite concerning for us , really , that that suddenly then became an issue , when both hmrc and the minister at the time told us that this was n't going to be a problem . nicola edwards : so , i think it 's the point that i was talking about earlier . there 's a difference between a bilingual service in the context of what hmrc understood that to be , in the context of their scheme , and the very detail of the standards when they got into their it systems . lynne neagle am : should n't that have been something that was worked out at the beginning ? nicola edwards : possibly , but they did need to do quite detailed work , not just into their own it systems , but the feed-in systems from the home office , the department for work and pensions and the post office as well , to understand the full complexity of how the standards would comply across all of that . they do provide a bilingual service . it was just some of the specific details of the requirements placed on the welsh ministers , because it is the welsh ministers ' standards that they would need to deliver against that they were struggling with . lynne neagle am : right , okay . sian gwenllian am : yes , but those standards were there right from the very beginning . lynne neagle am : i think that the committee would feel that that should have been bottomed out at the beginning , really . sian gwenllian am : nothing has changed in terms of the standards . lynne neagle am : okay , just before we move on to flying start , can i just ask : the minister mentioned a longer term review of the childcare offer . are you able to give us any indication of when that will report , please ? julie morgan am : would we have any idea ? nicola edwards : we have n't set out a definitive timescale on that as of yet because we 've been focusing very much on getting the review in terms of training , education and on the cusp of returning to work up and running . but sometime next year . lynne neagle am : okay . so , it will report sometime next year . okay , thank you . we 'll move on now to flying start and questions from suzy davies . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . can i just begin by asking you how you respond to the assertion that children from the most disadvantaged backgrounds do better in a mixed socioeconomic environment than in a targeted environment ? julie morgan am : i think that 's what flying start does , is n't it ? yes , i would have thought that was likely . suzy davies am : well , the reason i 'm asking you that , of course , is because this committee has suggested , perhaps , changes to the outreach system to target more disadvantaged children , and not necessarily capture people who happen to be in a geographic area . julie morgan am : so , you 're saying that you feel that a universal offer in certain areas is not advantageous to— suzy davies am : well , i 'm asking you , really . if it 's the case that we 're only going after disadvantaged children , which would take very precise targeting— julie morgan am : i 'm not only going after disadvantaged children . i feel that we should be offering something for all children , and our considerations are for all children . the reason we 've targeted flying start is because it would be great if we had enough money to have flying start throughout the whole of wales , but we just do n't have that sort of money . because i think flying start has proved to be a great—very successful . suzy davies am : i 'm going to ask you a few more questions on that . because just in response to this committee 's 2018 report , you did say that : 'defined geographical targeting of flying start support will be considered as part of the welsh government ’ s work on the early years system . ' that suggests you still have geographic targeting in mind . so , if you 're looking at a very mixed source of economic experience for children , what are the geographic boundaries you 're considering ? julie morgan am : at the moment , flying start can go beyond the geographical boundaries , with the extension— suzy davies am : with limits , yes . julie morgan am : yes . i think they can use 10 per cent of their income to go beyond the geographical boundaries , and many of them have done that . but , obviously , there are four elements to flying start , and only those geographical areas have got the four elements , but there could be the opportunity of extending some of that beyond the flying start geographical areas . we 're looking at this . suzy davies am : i accept what you say about the current system— julie morgan am : i believe it 's much more— . i believe very strongly in having a universal system , where everybody is able to access it . suzy davies am : i appreciate that as well . but , obviously , there are huge cost implications for that—unless you 're giving us some insight into what you 're going to say next week , i do n't know . but actually , defining anything geographically , which now seems to be fairly arbitrary , because it 's not targeted purely at disadvantaged children—on what basis are we choosing the geographic areas we are choosing at the moment ? julie morgan am : well , they 're chosen then because of the benefit take-up in those particular areas . so , it 's reaching some of the poorest children , but not all of the poorest children , but it 's reaching the poorest children in a way that is not stigmatising , and where the services are open to everybody , and i think that 's very important . suzy davies am : okay . well , having established that , we have fairly recent research here that a third of children living in poverty in wales are already falling behind at the age of five—that suggests that two thirds of them are n't , but it 's still a very worrying statistic . not all children live in flying start areas ; how are you going to reach that third who , even at such an early age , are already falling behind ? how many of them are in flying start areas ? julie morgan am : i think the actual number of children in poverty , the most disadvantaged that we reach through the flying start areas—i think it 's about 46 per cent . is that— ? do you know the actual percentage ? suzy davies am : it 's about a quarter of total children are in there , but— jo-anne daniels : so , just to give you a few of the numbers , there are just over 36,000 children benefiting from flying start services . that equates to about 23 per cent of children , overall , in wales . and because of the nature of the benefit take-up data , and because we do n't assess eligibility within a flying start area , we ca n't be absolutely certain how many children within a flying start area are actually in poverty . so , it 's an estimate , and it 's a range , and the range is that around 45 per cent of children in flying start areas would be in poverty.footnotelink suzy davies am : well , that 's interesting . i would have expected it to be much higher than that , particularly if the geographic areas had been targeted on benefit claims , effectively . are you disappointed that the proportion is—basically , 55 per cent of those children are n't living in poverty . that 's what you 're saying , is n't it ? jo-anne daniels : well , i 'd offer two observations . one : the nature of poverty in wales is actually , generally , more dispersed than perhaps sometimes is appreciated . yes , we have very concentrated areas of— suzy davies am : well , actually , we do appreciate it , which is why we 're asking this question . [ laughter . ] jo-anne daniels : okay . so that 's one issue to think about . sorry , i 've lost my train of thought now , in terms of the second—oh , sorry : whether you 're in or out of poverty is , in one sense , very black/white . but in reality of course—in terms of the income definition , it 's very black/white . but , of course , there will be a large number of people who are just above , but also families who move in and out , so it 's quite a transient population in some senses , in terms of people having incomes that are n't stable , people having jobs that go with that that are n't stable . so , at any one point in time , you 're only sort of capturing a snapshot of what 's happening . in reality , it 's a bit more complex than that . suzy davies am : i accept that . i mentioned a third of children living in poverty had fallen behind at five ; by the age of 14 , half that number is still falling behind , so something has happened between that third and that half to improve the life chances of those individual children or young people . is that attributable to flying start ? can you say that candidly ? or is it a happy coincidence , where there could be some causation , but we can ’ t prove it ? jo-anne daniels : we certainly think that flying start is making a positive impact , both on the point at which children go to school , and then subsequently . and i think as the committee knows , we ’ ve been working with the sail—secure anonymised information linkage—and the databank there to look at how we can do longitudinal studies to track children ’ s progress , to look at the extent to which outcomes are effected by flying start interventions . suzy davies am : we probably do n't have time for this level of detail today , but half of those children are still behind at the age of 14 . so , i 'd be curious to know if there 's any immediate plans to help them catch up or make sure that their successors do n't fall into the same position , the same trap . have you got anything high level that you can mention at this stage ? julie morgan am : just in terms of what we ’ re thinking of doing with flying start— . the key thing about flying start is the collaborative way that it works with the health visitors and all the speech and language therapists and childcare , and we ’ re looking at ways of trying to get some of those elements to reach a wider group . and as i said , we talked about earlier the eight earlier years transformation pathfinders that we talked about in the local authorities—we talked about that earlier—so , that ’ s where we ’ re going to look at flying start and how we can try to make it more accessible to more children . so , we do want to extend the benefits of flying start . we do want to make it available to more children , and that ’ s what we ’ re looking at . and we ’ re looking at that in those eight pathfinder areas . and you 'll have to wait to see what we come up with— suzy davies am : no , no—we 'll ask you more about that in due course . actually , that job would be an awful lot easier if you knew how many children within flying start areas were taking up all four elements . why do n't you know that ? why is that data not collected ? julie morgan am : do we know why ? jo-anne daniels : so , the approach that we ’ ve taken to evaluation in flying start— . the committee will have seen the various evaluation reports that have been published , and i know that you ’ re familiar with the work that , as i say , we ’ ve been doing with sail . we ’ re currently focusing on individual data collection , and through that we want to be able to report on levels of engagement , but also outcomes for children . we ’ ve been piloting that new approach in six local authorities . we hope to be able to extend that , and we hope to be able to provide more evidence about the interventions and the impact that they then achieve . suzy davies am : okay . all right . because , to be honest , i would want to know if a child ’ s chances have improved primarily because they ’ re getting good-quality childcare or primarily because their parents are taking up parenting courses . there ’ s got to be some indication somewhere in here about which of these four elements is making the greatest difference . jo-anne daniels : i would just caution in terms of expectations . it will always be quite difficult to definitively provide answers to that , because many parents will be taking these things up in combination . so , disentangling which has had the effect is , obviously , quite tricky—in particular , all parents will be getting the enhanced health visiting . not every parent will take up parenting support , not every child will need speech and language help , so— suzy davies am : and that 's why we need to know who is . jo-anne daniels : disentangling what 's helped and what has n't i think will always be quite a difficult thing to do . suzy davies am : but it would also be helpful to know which combinations work best as well . just on the final point from me—yes , 88 per cent of flying start 's childcare offers were taken up , but we 've had some local authorities where the take-up has dropped dramatically . i think denbighshire was down a fair bit , was n't it , and ceredigion , i think , had had a poor take-up . have you got any indication why ? i 'm thinking of denbighshire particularly , where there is a tradition—taking up third-party childcare is cultural there , whereas in ceredigion , for example , there are far fewer places available in the first place and less of a tradition of children taking up childcare . but what 's happened in denbighshire ? julie morgan am : i think there are a number of different reasons why parents do decide not to use a facility , and , obviously , that always exists , but each local authority has a flying start account manager in place to support them in the delivery of the programme and the account management activities , and there are formal account meetings that look at this sort of thing once a year— suzy davies am : so , what have they told you ? julie morgan am : —and these meetings will take place in november 2019 . that 's when the specific delivery issues will be discussed in depth , so that 's when we 'll find out what has happened and why there may have been a drop . suzy davies am : can i just ask about the timing of that ? because if you already know that there 's a 6 per cent drop , why will it take the best part of a year to—well , november 's only next month , to be fair , now , but why will it take that length of time to establish why there 's a drop ? you 'd have thought if you 'd seen a trend like that— julie morgan am : obviously , they meet at certain times and they will assess what 's happened . that seems quite normal to me . suzy davies am : okay , but we 'll get a note on that , is it ? it 's just that they knew this six months ago . julie morgan am : in november , we 'll have more information about this , so we can let you have information about that . suzy davies am : that would be really helpful , just for— . i 'm sure constituents in denbighshire will want to know about that . and then finally from me , chair , if i may , flying start beneficiaries—it 's got a specific explanation of what a flying start beneficiary is , but i think , particularly in view of the evidence we 've heard on this committee about parental support in connection with the removal of the defence of reasonable chastisement , for example , this committee is very concerned about what 's out there in terms of parental support . eighteen per cent of flying start beneficiaries have parents attending the informal parenting courses ; that 's 18 per cent , that 's not very high . any idea about what you might be able to do to encourage take-up or is that very locally decided ? lynne neagle am : if i can add to that , obviously , somebody only has to attend one course—we 've got no way of knowing whether parents are completing the whole of a course , really . julie morgan am : obviously , the offer is there for parents to take up the parenting courses , and there are four elements to flying start , and maybe some of the parents do n't feel that they want to or need to . i do n't think we 've got any more evidence on that for take-up— suzy davies am : well , the reach of this is going to be important , because we need the reassurance on the back of the legislation that is going through at the moment . julie morgan am : absolutely , yes . jo-anne daniels : parenting courses are , of course , one aspect of parenting support , but not the only one , and they 'll be appropriate for a lot of parents , but for some not . what all parents do get at an enhanced level in flying start is the support of the health visitor , so the health visitor is , in effect , providing a significant amount of support for parenting . now , that can be practical things like weaning or potty training et cetera , but , actually , it 's also about managing a child 's behaviour , managing how a parent develops that bonding and that attachment with their child . so , the role of the health visitor in supporting a parent to be a parent is absolutely critical , and every parent in flying start areas will be getting that enhanced level of support . of course , it 's not just in flying start areas now , because with the healthy child wales programme , the universal programme of health visiting visits , we have a much more consistent and standardised set of visits and engagements with parents that cover a lot of these areas . in addition , i 'd also add that when parents use the childcare in flying start , or childcare generally outside of flying start areas , there is often a lot of working between the childcare setting and the parent over parenting—again , managing a child 's behaviour , managing any issues that the childcare worker thinks are emerging in terms of whether it 's eating or , again , toileting . so , parenting courses are important , but it 's really essential that we see those in the broader context of the different ways in which lots of professionals interact with parents , providing them with advice , guidance and support , and actually what works for parents in terms of how they take on board some of that advice and that help . sometimes a formal course is quite off-putting for parents , but the sort of quiet word , the top tips , the advice that a friendly professional gives can be very , very impactful . suzy davies am : that 's a really helpful answer . it does raise , unfortunately , another question about whether a health visitor in those circumstances might find themselves in a difficult position if they 're dealing with a parent who has smacked a child , but we 'll leave that for stage 3 . julie morgan am : we 'll be dealing with that , i 'm sure . suzy davies am : but thank you ; that was a helpful answer . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . are there any other questions from members ? no . okay . well , can i thank the minister and the officials for attending this morning ? as usual , you 'll be sent a transcript to check for accuracy following the meeting , but thank you again for your attendance . thank you . julie morgan am : thank you very much . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about differences of care provision in different parts of wales ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . what is the welsh government doing to address the big differences in the amount of early childhood education and care provision available in different parts of wales ? julie morgan am : right . well , thank you very much for that question . i mean , obviously , it would be good to see a greater degree of consistency , but i think it 's important to acknowledge that there are reasons for that variation . now , early education , of course , is the responsibility of the minister for education , and we are aware that different local authorities have adopted different patterns of providing early education . for example , local authorities are funded to provide 10 hours minimum of the foundation phase for three and four-year-olds across wales , but there 's quite a variance in how much is actually provided , with some local authorities providing a lot more historically . so , it does mean that there is a different pattern across wales , according to what local authorities do . but what i could say is , of course , the quality is very good , as the estyn reports have shown ; that the quality provided , the delivery of the foundation phase , is very good . but it does vary in terms of what is offered throughout wales , and that is the decision of the local authorities , and it is a historical thing . i refer to this pilot in flint , which is trying to test paying the same rate for foundation phase and childcare . we 're going to have an independent evaluation on that soon , in november this year , so that will help us . obviously , i think local authorities ' role in all this is absolutely crucial because they are the local , nearest people to decide how things develop in their own areas . and then , of course , we 've got flying start , which is geographically targeted , which uses the data from income benefit to decide which are the areas where that is being delivered . and that is delivered where the highest proportion of children aged nought to three are living in income-dependent households . so , again , that determines the pattern throughout wales . with flying start being geographically targeted , with the education being determined by the local authorities about how much there is , we know that there is a variance throughout wales . we 'd like to see facilities developed in each local authority throughout wales that would answer the needs of the families and the children in those areas . lynne neagle am : before you move on , janet , siân 's got a supplementary . sian gwenllian am : just in terms of the foundation phase , there have been cuts , of course , in expenditure in that phase . how concerned are you about that and the impact that that will have on the way in which the foundation phase is taught in our schools ? the foundation phase is now part of the education improvement grant , which has seen a reduction of 10 per cent , and it has to compete against other expenditure streams within that greater pot of funding . so , are you concerned that money is being lost and that that will have an impact on standards in the foundation phase ? julie morgan am : i have n't seen any evidence . obviously , i must reiterate the foundation phase does come under the minister for education , but i have n't seen any evidence of any standards being lowered , and the reports from estyn are very good . in fact , i think the foundation phase is one of our great joys , that we absolutely celebrate it , and so i 'd be very concerned if i thought there was any drop in standards in the foundation phase , and i certainly have n't had any evidence of that . i would want to guard against that . sian gwenllian am : exactly , but if there are fewer teaching assistants in the system because of the cuts , it 's going to impact on standards , at the end of the day . julie morgan am : i think we have to be very careful to see that lower standards are not implemented , because it was groundbreaking when we brought it in , and it has proved to be a great success , so we want to make sure that 's guarded . lynne neagle am : thank you . janet . janet finch-saunders am : going back to my original question about the big differences in amounts of early childhood education and care provision in different parts of wales , the welsh and uk governments have followed a demand-driven approach to the childcare market , with subsidies mainly given to working parents . is that a mistake ? should it be more universally available ? julie morgan am : well , some of our provision is universally available in certain areas . for example , the flying start provision is universally available in geographically defined areas , and i think that 's very important , because that does mean that there is n't stigma , and so , in those areas , everybody can take advantage of it , and yet it is reaching those who are most in need because it 's reaching those areas . so , i think that there is a purpose behind that . in terms of when you say demand led , could you elaborate on that ? janet finch-saunders am : i know that—we 've just had a useful briefing from david dallimore , and , basically , there is this theory that there are too many resources—the demand-driven approach is based more on certain factors : geographic spread in terms of it being more universal , and whether that 's the right way . how do children then mix with peers from different backgrounds , in their own peer or age group ? julie morgan am : it is demand— nicola edwards : [ inaudible . ] —because the offer is targeted at working parents— janet finch-saunders am : yes , yes . nicola edwards : —obviously , then the amount of availability is based on how many parents apply for it and take it up . is that the context of demand led in that— right , okay . julie morgan am : it is universally available to all parents who meet the eligibility criteria of working , and i think what you 're saying is that it should be available to everybody . </s>
<s> what did janet finch-saunders think of childcare when discussing differences of care provision in different parts of wales ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : going back to my original question about the big differences in amounts of early childhood education and care provision in different parts of wales , the welsh and uk governments have followed a demand-driven approach to the childcare market , with subsidies mainly given to working parents . is that a mistake ? should it be more universally available ? julie morgan am : well , some of our provision is universally available in certain areas . for example , the flying start provision is universally available in geographically defined areas , and i think that 's very important , because that does mean that there is n't stigma , and so , in those areas , everybody can take advantage of it , and yet it is reaching those who are most in need because it 's reaching those areas . so , i think that there is a purpose behind that . in terms of when you say demand led , could you elaborate on that ? janet finch-saunders am : i know that—we 've just had a useful briefing from david dallimore , and , basically , there is this theory that there are too many resources—the demand-driven approach is based more on certain factors : geographic spread in terms of it being more universal , and whether that 's the right way . how do children then mix with peers from different backgrounds , in their own peer or age group ? julie morgan am : it is demand— nicola edwards : [ inaudible . ] —because the offer is targeted at working parents— janet finch-saunders am : yes , yes . nicola edwards : —obviously , then the amount of availability is based on how many parents apply for it and take it up . is that the context of demand led in that— right , okay . julie morgan am : it is universally available to all parents who meet the eligibility criteria of working , and i think what you 're saying is that it should be available to everybody . </s>
<s> what 's the conclusion of the discussion about differences of care provision in different parts of wales ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . i 've got some questions now from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . what is the welsh government doing to address the big differences in the amount of early childhood education and care provision available in different parts of wales ? julie morgan am : right . well , thank you very much for that question . i mean , obviously , it would be good to see a greater degree of consistency , but i think it 's important to acknowledge that there are reasons for that variation . now , early education , of course , is the responsibility of the minister for education , and we are aware that different local authorities have adopted different patterns of providing early education . for example , local authorities are funded to provide 10 hours minimum of the foundation phase for three and four-year-olds across wales , but there 's quite a variance in how much is actually provided , with some local authorities providing a lot more historically . so , it does mean that there is a different pattern across wales , according to what local authorities do . but what i could say is , of course , the quality is very good , as the estyn reports have shown ; that the quality provided , the delivery of the foundation phase , is very good . but it does vary in terms of what is offered throughout wales , and that is the decision of the local authorities , and it is a historical thing . i refer to this pilot in flint , which is trying to test paying the same rate for foundation phase and childcare . we 're going to have an independent evaluation on that soon , in november this year , so that will help us . obviously , i think local authorities ' role in all this is absolutely crucial because they are the local , nearest people to decide how things develop in their own areas . and then , of course , we 've got flying start , which is geographically targeted , which uses the data from income benefit to decide which are the areas where that is being delivered . and that is delivered where the highest proportion of children aged nought to three are living in income-dependent households . so , again , that determines the pattern throughout wales . with flying start being geographically targeted , with the education being determined by the local authorities about how much there is , we know that there is a variance throughout wales . we 'd like to see facilities developed in each local authority throughout wales that would answer the needs of the families and the children in those areas . lynne neagle am : before you move on , janet , siân 's got a supplementary . sian gwenllian am : just in terms of the foundation phase , there have been cuts , of course , in expenditure in that phase . how concerned are you about that and the impact that that will have on the way in which the foundation phase is taught in our schools ? the foundation phase is now part of the education improvement grant , which has seen a reduction of 10 per cent , and it has to compete against other expenditure streams within that greater pot of funding . so , are you concerned that money is being lost and that that will have an impact on standards in the foundation phase ? julie morgan am : i have n't seen any evidence . obviously , i must reiterate the foundation phase does come under the minister for education , but i have n't seen any evidence of any standards being lowered , and the reports from estyn are very good . in fact , i think the foundation phase is one of our great joys , that we absolutely celebrate it , and so i 'd be very concerned if i thought there was any drop in standards in the foundation phase , and i certainly have n't had any evidence of that . i would want to guard against that . sian gwenllian am : exactly , but if there are fewer teaching assistants in the system because of the cuts , it 's going to impact on standards , at the end of the day . julie morgan am : i think we have to be very careful to see that lower standards are not implemented , because it was groundbreaking when we brought it in , and it has proved to be a great success , so we want to make sure that 's guarded . lynne neagle am : thank you . janet . janet finch-saunders am : going back to my original question about the big differences in amounts of early childhood education and care provision in different parts of wales , the welsh and uk governments have followed a demand-driven approach to the childcare market , with subsidies mainly given to working parents . is that a mistake ? should it be more universally available ? julie morgan am : well , some of our provision is universally available in certain areas . for example , the flying start provision is universally available in geographically defined areas , and i think that 's very important , because that does mean that there is n't stigma , and so , in those areas , everybody can take advantage of it , and yet it is reaching those who are most in need because it 's reaching those areas . so , i think that there is a purpose behind that . in terms of when you say demand led , could you elaborate on that ? janet finch-saunders am : i know that—we 've just had a useful briefing from david dallimore , and , basically , there is this theory that there are too many resources—the demand-driven approach is based more on certain factors : geographic spread in terms of it being more universal , and whether that 's the right way . how do children then mix with peers from different backgrounds , in their own peer or age group ? julie morgan am : it is demand— nicola edwards : [ inaudible . ] —because the offer is targeted at working parents— janet finch-saunders am : yes , yes . nicola edwards : —obviously , then the amount of availability is based on how many parents apply for it and take it up . is that the context of demand led in that— right , okay . julie morgan am : it is universally available to all parents who meet the eligibility criteria of working , and i think what you 're saying is that it should be available to everybody . lynne neagle am : i think the point that janet 's making is that some areas have traditionally got more childcare anyway because they have traditionally had more demand in those areas , so there 's not a level playing field to start from . is that correct ? julie morgan am : i think that , historically , that is definitely true , and when you look at the take-up of the childcare offer , it 's certainly taken up in some areas with a very high take-up rate . i think ynys môn was nearly 90 per cent or something— sian gwenllian am : they need more money , because they have n't got enough funding . dawn bowden am : so does everywhere . sian gwenllian am : no , to meet the demand . julie morgan am : in other areas , it 's much , much lower—in some of the cities , i know . so , there is a big range in take-up— janet finch-saunders am : so , do you intend to bring something forward to address that ? julie morgan am : we are planning to extend it . we 're looking at the possibility of extending it to parents who are in education and training . so , we are widening the offer , yes . obviously , we have to wait for the evaluation of that . it would be great to be able to offer it to absolutely everybody , but obviously we have got the finance to look at in terms of how we do that . but we are certainly planning to expand it . lynne neagle am : we 've got questions on the offer in a little while . janet . janet finch-saunders am : does the welsh government intend to develop an integrated approach , then , against all settings ? if so , given the current inconsistencies , how can quality be assured ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the demand-driven approach in the programme . </s> sian gwenllian am : no , to meet the demand . julie morgan am : in other areas , it 's much , much lower—in some of the cities , i know . so , there is a big range in take-up— janet finch-saunders am : so , do you intend to bring something forward to address that ? julie morgan am : we are planning to extend it . we 're looking at the possibility of extending it to parents who are in education and training . so , we are widening the offer , yes . obviously , we have to wait for the evaluation of that . it would be great to be able to offer it to absolutely everybody , but obviously we have got the finance to look at in terms of how we do that . but we are certainly planning to expand it . lynne neagle am : we 've got questions on the offer in a little while . janet . janet finch-saunders am : does the welsh government intend to develop an integrated approach , then , against all settings ? if so , given the current inconsistencies , how can quality be assured ? julie morgan am : we are developing a more integrated approach towards the early years . as i 've said , we 're trying to have the foundation phase operating in more non-maintained settings , and we 're already developing that . but estyn and ciw will continue to inspect and regulate the early years sector to ensure standards , and , since january 2019 , ciw and estyn have moved to joint inspections for the non-maintained settings that are offering the foundation phase . so , that is a very positive move , i think , and is absolutely making sure that standards are maintained , because if we are having the foundation phase in non-maintained settings , that is a challenge where we want to be sure that the standards and the philosophy of the foundation phase are maintained . so , we have got the system of inspection to ensure that . janet finch-saunders am : and finally from me , what specific steps have been put in place to take forward the commitments from the welsh government 's 2017 childcare/play early years workforce plan to build a better understanding of the workforce 's welsh language skills to enable support for the sector to be targeted and to identify where capacity needs to be built for the future to meet the needs of the early years sector in a bilingual wales ? julie morgan am : we think this is very important , and we 're pleased that 29 per cent of children taking up the childcare offer are in welsh or bilingual settings , so we think that 's very good . we have established a specific programme to develop welsh language skills in the childcare and play workforce with the national centre for learning welsh , to develop workplace welsh language skills across the sector . so , we 're actually working with that , and i think you 've done something with those recently , have n't you ? i do n't know if you want to— nicola edwards : yes . so , we have a stakeholder group where we 've brought together a variety of people with an interest in the early years , childcare and play sectors , and we had a presentation just last month from the national language centre about the education programmes that they 're rolling out , and how this is all coming together , which is quite interesting . we 've been working quite carefully to make sure that the variety of work-based learning programmes that we provide and offer are also available in welsh and bilingually . recruitment and retention within the childcare and play sector is quite challenging in any case . recruiting and retaining staff with really good welsh language skills adds an extra dimension to it , and that it 's a point that mudiad meithrin makes to us quite regularly , that they do struggle to find staff with the right skills . so , upskilling the existing workforce is a key part of it , but also doing more to attract people in with welsh language skills in the first place in terms of the training courses that we 're taking forward , and thinking about that in the context of the targets within cymraeg 2050 and the aim to get to one million welsh speakers . so , as the deputy minister said , we 've got quite a number of children accessing the offer in welsh-medium or bilingual settings at the moment . we 're going to be doing some baselining work against that in terms of local authorities ' welsh in education strategic plans and education places , and what we can then do to increase the number of childcare places in parallel with that so that you can make sure that you start that pathway through learning welsh , interacting with education and childcare through welsh at a much earlier stage . lynne neagle am : suzy , you 've got a supplementary . suzy davies am : just on this early point , anybody who 's been through the welsh education system , which is 20 years now , will have some welsh language skills , obviously to differing degrees . for the entrants that are coming into childcare training now , there are going to be very few of them , realistically , with no welsh at all , so what 's actually being incorporated into the early years care training to make sure , at that stage , that the welsh language skills are being developed , as opposed to an add-on later on ? nicola edwards : you 're quite right . most people coming through the education system will have some awareness of welsh although i think it 's probably important to remember we do also employ people from outside of wales . suzy davies am : yes , but the majority , being realistic . nicola edwards : but they do n't necessarily have welsh that is appropriate . they 've got welsh that they 've developed in school . it 's not necessarily appropriate for then teaching that language to children , who may be coming from families who do n't use welsh at home . so , that might be the first interaction that child has with the language . so , there 's a lot of that in terms of child development and how you develop children bilingually , particularly if they 're coming from english-medium homes , and reinforcing the language in language choices . there will also be some people who are , perhaps—we see this quite a lot in the office—quite confident in terms of speaking welsh but less so in terms of some of the paperwork , the reporting , the writing and the interacting with parents more officially , which we need to think about as well . but it is mainly about getting people to a point where they can transmit that language onwards in a confident and meaningful way . </s>
<s> what 's the decision of the discussion about the demand-driven approach in the programme ? </s> sian gwenllian am : no , to meet the demand . julie morgan am : in other areas , it 's much , much lower—in some of the cities , i know . so , there is a big range in take-up— janet finch-saunders am : so , do you intend to bring something forward to address that ? julie morgan am : we are planning to extend it . we 're looking at the possibility of extending it to parents who are in education and training . so , we are widening the offer , yes . obviously , we have to wait for the evaluation of that . it would be great to be able to offer it to absolutely everybody , but obviously we have got the finance to look at in terms of how we do that . but we are certainly planning to expand it . lynne neagle am : we 've got questions on the offer in a little while . janet . janet finch-saunders am : does the welsh government intend to develop an integrated approach , then , against all settings ? if so , given the current inconsistencies , how can quality be assured ? </s>
<s> what did julie morgan recommend to do when discussing the demand-driven approach in the programme and why ? </s> sian gwenllian am : just in terms of the foundation phase , there have been cuts , of course , in expenditure in that phase . how concerned are you about that and the impact that that will have on the way in which the foundation phase is taught in our schools ? the foundation phase is now part of the education improvement grant , which has seen a reduction of 10 per cent , and it has to compete against other expenditure streams within that greater pot of funding . so , are you concerned that money is being lost and that that will have an impact on standards in the foundation phase ? julie morgan am : i have n't seen any evidence . obviously , i must reiterate the foundation phase does come under the minister for education , but i have n't seen any evidence of any standards being lowered , and the reports from estyn are very good . in fact , i think the foundation phase is one of our great joys , that we absolutely celebrate it , and so i 'd be very concerned if i thought there was any drop in standards in the foundation phase , and i certainly have n't had any evidence of that . i would want to guard against that . sian gwenllian am : exactly , but if there are fewer teaching assistants in the system because of the cuts , it 's going to impact on standards , at the end of the day . julie morgan am : i think we have to be very careful to see that lower standards are not implemented , because it was groundbreaking when we brought it in , and it has proved to be a great success , so we want to make sure that 's guarded . lynne neagle am : thank you . janet . janet finch-saunders am : going back to my original question about the big differences in amounts of early childhood education and care provision in different parts of wales , the welsh and uk governments have followed a demand-driven approach to the childcare market , with subsidies mainly given to working parents . is that a mistake ? should it be more universally available ? julie morgan am : well , some of our provision is universally available in certain areas . for example , the flying start provision is universally available in geographically defined areas , and i think that 's very important , because that does mean that there is n't stigma , and so , in those areas , everybody can take advantage of it , and yet it is reaching those who are most in need because it 's reaching those areas . so , i think that there is a purpose behind that . in terms of when you say demand led , could you elaborate on that ? janet finch-saunders am : i know that—we 've just had a useful briefing from david dallimore , and , basically , there is this theory that there are too many resources—the demand-driven approach is based more on certain factors : geographic spread in terms of it being more universal , and whether that 's the right way . how do children then mix with peers from different backgrounds , in their own peer or age group ? julie morgan am : it is demand— nicola edwards : [ inaudible . ] —because the offer is targeted at working parents— janet finch-saunders am : yes , yes . nicola edwards : —obviously , then the amount of availability is based on how many parents apply for it and take it up . is that the context of demand led in that— right , okay . julie morgan am : it is universally available to all parents who meet the eligibility criteria of working , and i think what you 're saying is that it should be available to everybody . lynne neagle am : i think the point that janet 's making is that some areas have traditionally got more childcare anyway because they have traditionally had more demand in those areas , so there 's not a level playing field to start from . is that correct ? julie morgan am : i think that , historically , that is definitely true , and when you look at the take-up of the childcare offer , it 's certainly taken up in some areas with a very high take-up rate . i think ynys môn was nearly 90 per cent or something— sian gwenllian am : they need more money , because they have n't got enough funding . dawn bowden am : so does everywhere . sian gwenllian am : no , to meet the demand . julie morgan am : in other areas , it 's much , much lower—in some of the cities , i know . so , there is a big range in take-up— janet finch-saunders am : so , do you intend to bring something forward to address that ? julie morgan am : we are planning to extend it . we 're looking at the possibility of extending it to parents who are in education and training . so , we are widening the offer , yes . obviously , we have to wait for the evaluation of that . it would be great to be able to offer it to absolutely everybody , but obviously we have got the finance to look at in terms of how we do that . but we are certainly planning to expand it . lynne neagle am : we 've got questions on the offer in a little while . janet . janet finch-saunders am : does the welsh government intend to develop an integrated approach , then , against all settings ? if so , given the current inconsistencies , how can quality be assured ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the demand of welsh language skills . </s> janet finch-saunders am : and finally from me , what specific steps have been put in place to take forward the commitments from the welsh government 's 2017 childcare/play early years workforce plan to build a better understanding of the workforce 's welsh language skills to enable support for the sector to be targeted and to identify where capacity needs to be built for the future to meet the needs of the early years sector in a bilingual wales ? julie morgan am : we think this is very important , and we 're pleased that 29 per cent of children taking up the childcare offer are in welsh or bilingual settings , so we think that 's very good . we have established a specific programme to develop welsh language skills in the childcare and play workforce with the national centre for learning welsh , to develop workplace welsh language skills across the sector . so , we 're actually working with that , and i think you 've done something with those recently , have n't you ? i do n't know if you want to— nicola edwards : yes . so , we have a stakeholder group where we 've brought together a variety of people with an interest in the early years , childcare and play sectors , and we had a presentation just last month from the national language centre about the education programmes that they 're rolling out , and how this is all coming together , which is quite interesting . we 've been working quite carefully to make sure that the variety of work-based learning programmes that we provide and offer are also available in welsh and bilingually . recruitment and retention within the childcare and play sector is quite challenging in any case . recruiting and retaining staff with really good welsh language skills adds an extra dimension to it , and that it 's a point that mudiad meithrin makes to us quite regularly , that they do struggle to find staff with the right skills . so , upskilling the existing workforce is a key part of it , but also doing more to attract people in with welsh language skills in the first place in terms of the training courses that we 're taking forward , and thinking about that in the context of the targets within cymraeg 2050 and the aim to get to one million welsh speakers . so , as the deputy minister said , we 've got quite a number of children accessing the offer in welsh-medium or bilingual settings at the moment . we 're going to be doing some baselining work against that in terms of local authorities ' welsh in education strategic plans and education places , and what we can then do to increase the number of childcare places in parallel with that so that you can make sure that you start that pathway through learning welsh , interacting with education and childcare through welsh at a much earlier stage . lynne neagle am : suzy , you 've got a supplementary . suzy davies am : just on this early point , anybody who 's been through the welsh education system , which is 20 years now , will have some welsh language skills , obviously to differing degrees . for the entrants that are coming into childcare training now , there are going to be very few of them , realistically , with no welsh at all , so what 's actually being incorporated into the early years care training to make sure , at that stage , that the welsh language skills are being developed , as opposed to an add-on later on ? nicola edwards : you 're quite right . most people coming through the education system will have some awareness of welsh although i think it 's probably important to remember we do also employ people from outside of wales . suzy davies am : yes , but the majority , being realistic . nicola edwards : but they do n't necessarily have welsh that is appropriate . they 've got welsh that they 've developed in school . it 's not necessarily appropriate for then teaching that language to children , who may be coming from families who do n't use welsh at home . so , that might be the first interaction that child has with the language . so , there 's a lot of that in terms of child development and how you develop children bilingually , particularly if they 're coming from english-medium homes , and reinforcing the language in language choices . there will also be some people who are , perhaps—we see this quite a lot in the office—quite confident in terms of speaking welsh but less so in terms of some of the paperwork , the reporting , the writing and the interacting with parents more officially , which we need to think about as well . but it is mainly about getting people to a point where they can transmit that language onwards in a confident and meaningful way . suzy davies am : okay . and it 's ingrained in the early years training . okay . that 's fine . thank you for that . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : just before we move on , you said that 29 per cent of the take-up of the childcare offer is either through welsh or is bilingual . have you got any figures about how many children are accessing it in welsh only ? nicola edwards : we will have . it becomes— . with the way we do it , it 's because of the way that the setting defines their language category , and that 's how we collect it . we do go down to individual child level , although it 's anonymised , data collection on a termly basis . so i 'll have a look and see if we can send you through the last term . lynne neagle am : maybe if the committee could have a note , that would be really useful . nicola edwards : yes , that 's fine . lynne neagle am : we 've got some questions now on childcare from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . deputy minister , the evaluation of the childcare offer , when it was published last year , said that there was very little evidence currently available to determine what its impact was . you 're going to be producing a second evaluation in november this year ; do you expect to see some indications now of the impact ? julie morgan am : well , the evaluation of the first year of the childcare offer was very limited , because the childcare offer was n't available throughout the whole of wales . and it was a very early implementation phase . so , obviously it takes time to grow . and the evaluation for year 2 , i think , will also show a limited impact for the same reasons . the offer became available across the whole of wales only last april . so we 've only got since last april that it 's actually been fully available . and the parental survey was released to parents in june 2019 , therefore any impact on parents in the authorities coming on board in the second year will also be negligible . so , it 's from the next one , however , we hope that we will get more information . dawn bowden am : so you think , by the time we get to november 2020 , you might have a better picture . </s>
<s> what did nicola edwards think of the need of teaching language when discussing the demand of welsh language skills ? </s> nicola edwards : but they do n't necessarily have welsh that is appropriate . they 've got welsh that they 've developed in school . it 's not necessarily appropriate for then teaching that language to children , who may be coming from families who do n't use welsh at home . so , that might be the first interaction that child has with the language . so , there 's a lot of that in terms of child development and how you develop children bilingually , particularly if they 're coming from english-medium homes , and reinforcing the language in language choices . there will also be some people who are , perhaps—we see this quite a lot in the office—quite confident in terms of speaking welsh but less so in terms of some of the paperwork , the reporting , the writing and the interacting with parents more officially , which we need to think about as well . but it is mainly about getting people to a point where they can transmit that language onwards in a confident and meaningful way . </s>
<s> what did julie morgan recommend to do when discussing the demand of welsh language skills and why ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : and finally from me , what specific steps have been put in place to take forward the commitments from the welsh government 's 2017 childcare/play early years workforce plan to build a better understanding of the workforce 's welsh language skills to enable support for the sector to be targeted and to identify where capacity needs to be built for the future to meet the needs of the early years sector in a bilingual wales ? julie morgan am : we think this is very important , and we 're pleased that 29 per cent of children taking up the childcare offer are in welsh or bilingual settings , so we think that 's very good . we have established a specific programme to develop welsh language skills in the childcare and play workforce with the national centre for learning welsh , to develop workplace welsh language skills across the sector . so , we 're actually working with that , and i think you 've done something with those recently , have n't you ? i do n't know if you want to— </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the issues with hmrc . </s> sian gwenllian am : as we know , of course , the work with her majesty 's revenue and customs has ended , and i know you were n't the minister who initiated this process , but what exactly has gone wrong ? what are these issues that have come to light that have made you suspend that ? it 's very frustrating for us , as a committee , who scrutinised that extensively and raised a lot of concerns about that . and a lot of time has been spent talking about this funding bill , and money—£1 million , i understand—has been wasted , if you like , unnecessarily . so , what exactly has gone wrong ? why are n't you discussing these things with hmrc ? yes . so , thank you for that explanation . julie morgan am : i 've got more to say as well . sian gwenllian am : yes , but for your transparency around your particular view that it needs to be more flexible and expanded upon and , therefore , going down the hmrc route was— julie morgan am : it would have restricted us a lot . sian gwenllian am : yes . we knew that from the beginning . i mean , that 's , you know— . so , it was a principle decision rather than any sort of technical matters to do with the welsh language standards . that 's been cited as one kind of— . but i 'm really understanding more now that , really , what it 's about is that you want to have a more flexible , and expand on the offer and that this would curtail—going through hmrc would put limits on that . julie morgan am : that is one of the reasons , but there were issues about the welsh language , which we can go into in detail , if you 'd like . there were some issues about that . they would be able to process things bilingually , and i think that was probably told to the committee when we looked at the hmrc . but , in terms of the welsh language standards that the minister has to use , there would be some difficulties in them doing it . sian gwenllian am : but would you say that your main change came about because you wanted to be more flexible rather than any difficulties— julie morgan am : one of the major reasons , i think— sian gwenllian am : okay . good . julie morgan am : but there are— . as i say , there are other reasons . those technical reasons probably do end up being quite important— sian gwenllian am : but the committee was told by the previous minister that hmrc would n't have any problem at all with delivering according to the welsh language standards . julie morgan am : do you want to add something to this ? nicola edwards : so , in terms of some of the technical issues we had , if you want to start with the bilingual provision and the welsh language standards , hmrc do provide a bilingual service at the moment for their customers in line with their welsh language scheme , and i think we can all appreciate that schemes are quite different from the requirements of the standards . and there were some issues when we got into the detail of the standards that the welsh ministers are required to deliver to that caused some concerns in terms of how hmrc were going to do it , particularly in terms of the multiple it systems that go into building up the childcare services . so , for example , there are a number of what are called 'special characters ' in the welsh alphabet , such as the to bach , for example . the hmrc it system has some issues with that . sian gwenllian am : yes , well , with due respect , the to bach has always been there— nicola edwards : oh , yes , i completely agree . unfortunately , however— sian gwenllian am : —and hmrc would have been able to tell you , really early on , you would have thought , that it was— . i do n't really want to go into it , because i think we 've got to the crux of why hmrc was dropped . i think it 's been dropped because julie feels that the offer needs to be more flexible , and i can understand why you would say that . julie morgan am : if we bring in training and education , for example , we would n't be able to do that via the hmrc , it would have to be done by the local authorities . foster parents have to be done via the local authorities . any people of immigration status of no resource from public funds , that would have to be done via the local authorities . and with the local authorities also wanting to do it— . i mean , there are other things with using hmrc—if any changes were made with the english offer , for example , because this would be delivered via hmrc with the english offer , that would cause difficulties for the welsh offer . so , we wanted something more flexible . i do n't know if there 's anything more you want to add on that . jo-anne daniels : the only thing i 'd add is that—and , again , i think the minister has referred to this—the costs that hmrc presented us with at the end of the discovery phase were significantly higher than the costs that had initially been outlined and that we outlined to the committee in the regulatory impact assessment . so , our conclusion is that we can deliver a cheaper system and a system that has the flexibility that the deputy minister has referred to by working with local authorities rather than hmrc . so , there is an important issue around value for money as well and making sure that the investment that we 're making into developing the national system is one that—that , in a sense , that investment stays in wales . so , obviously , the money that we 're paying over to hmrc to run the system would be supporting hmrc and their employees wherever they may be based , many of them not based in wales ; investment in local authorities to administer the system means that we 're retaining more of that investment here . </s>
<s> what did julie morgan think of the issues with hmrc ? </s> sian gwenllian am : as we know , of course , the work with her majesty 's revenue and customs has ended , and i know you were n't the minister who initiated this process , but what exactly has gone wrong ? what are these issues that have come to light that have made you suspend that ? it 's very frustrating for us , as a committee , who scrutinised that extensively and raised a lot of concerns about that . and a lot of time has been spent talking about this funding bill , and money—£1 million , i understand—has been wasted , if you like , unnecessarily . so , what exactly has gone wrong ? why are n't you discussing these things with hmrc ? yes . so , thank you for that explanation . julie morgan am : i 've got more to say as well . sian gwenllian am : yes , but for your transparency around your particular view that it needs to be more flexible and expanded upon and , therefore , going down the hmrc route was— julie morgan am : it would have restricted us a lot . sian gwenllian am : yes . we knew that from the beginning . i mean , that 's , you know— . so , it was a principle decision rather than any sort of technical matters to do with the welsh language standards . that 's been cited as one kind of— . but i 'm really understanding more now that , really , what it 's about is that you want to have a more flexible , and expand on the offer and that this would curtail—going through hmrc would put limits on that . julie morgan am : that is one of the reasons , but there were issues about the welsh language , which we can go into in detail , if you 'd like . there were some issues about that . they would be able to process things bilingually , and i think that was probably told to the committee when we looked at the hmrc . but , in terms of the welsh language standards that the minister has to use , there would be some difficulties in them doing it . sian gwenllian am : but would you say that your main change came about because you wanted to be more flexible rather than any difficulties— julie morgan am : one of the major reasons , i think— sian gwenllian am : okay . good . julie morgan am : but there are— . as i say , there are other reasons . those technical reasons probably do end up being quite important— sian gwenllian am : but the committee was told by the previous minister that hmrc would n't have any problem at all with delivering according to the welsh language standards . julie morgan am : do you want to add something to this ? nicola edwards : so , in terms of some of the technical issues we had , if you want to start with the bilingual provision and the welsh language standards , hmrc do provide a bilingual service at the moment for their customers in line with their welsh language scheme , and i think we can all appreciate that schemes are quite different from the requirements of the standards . and there were some issues when we got into the detail of the standards that the welsh ministers are required to deliver to that caused some concerns in terms of how hmrc were going to do it , particularly in terms of the multiple it systems that go into building up the childcare services . so , for example , there are a number of what are called 'special characters ' in the welsh alphabet , such as the to bach , for example . the hmrc it system has some issues with that . sian gwenllian am : yes , well , with due respect , the to bach has always been there— nicola edwards : oh , yes , i completely agree . unfortunately , however— sian gwenllian am : —and hmrc would have been able to tell you , really early on , you would have thought , that it was— . i do n't really want to go into it , because i think we 've got to the crux of why hmrc was dropped . i think it 's been dropped because julie feels that the offer needs to be more flexible , and i can understand why you would say that . </s>
<s> what 's the decision of the discussion about the issues with hmrc ? </s> suzy davies am : thank you . ms daniels , you referred to value for money . how much is it actually going to cost to change this system from being a temporary arrangement with local authorities to a permanent one ? and how much more is it going to cost for the more flexible system that you have in mind ? they 're not going to do this for nothing . how much extra are you giving them , and will they use it for this ? how are you ensuring it 's used for this ? jo-anne daniels : so , at the moment , local— . so , two things . just to start by saying the eligibility checking process is not undertaken by all 22 local authorities . suzy davies am : no , no , i realise that . yes , i got all that . jo-anne daniels : so , part of the reason for using 10 is to try to ensure that we build economies of scale and that we have a more efficient operation . those authorities that undertake that function are given a specific grant in order to do that . that grant is ring-fenced to that purpose . suzy davies am : could you give us an idea of the price tag ? jo-anne daniels : at the moment , it 's about £2.5 million . suzy davies am : okay , just as a round figure—that 's fine . nicola edwards : just for the administration . they get separate funding for the childcare , obviously . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : so is why not save that . marketing : no , you 'll ha have to open it up from elsewhere . project manager : do you want to replace existing file , no . i actually tried to transfer it to my documents , but marketing : yeah , you have to you have to close that window . 'cause that 's the save one is n't it , so and then find it . project manager : spreadsheet . marketing : project manager : yeah , but i 've ta uh marketing : project manager : right , i 'll just re-do it . that 's the easiest way . right . user interface : well we 've made our prototype anyway . we can have a good look at that . marketing : you pass it round to have a look . user interface : mm-hmm . y no , it 's a slightly curved around the sides . marketing : mm very nice . user interface : um , it 's almost curved like up to the main display as well . and the little line at the bottom indicates the bit the panel that you pull down . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and the extra function buttons are below that panel on the little line . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and we 've got the stick on the button with the company logo on . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : we also have a apple slash cherry design at the top . user interface : marketing : so it is , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : cherry would be alright actually . user interface : yeah , marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's a bit more fun , is n't it ? and it 's kinda not really at a kind of you think apple , you think computers , like apple mac . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , we might get a marketing : mm-hmm . copyright , yeah . what 's this this one ? user interface : yeah , and cherries are fun , summery . marketing : what 's that one there ? user interface : ah , that 's the mute . industrial designer : for the m_ . marketing : oh , okay . right . user interface : it it 'd probably have to be labelled mute . marketing : industrial designer : they 're thinking user interface : but um , we did n't have anything small enough to write . marketing : uh-huh . industrial designer : for the first time , well it was hard to get the h um the actual labelling on the individual buttons . marketing : okay . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . uh , we just chose simple shapes for all them . marketing : user interface : um , the important ones are the volume ones . so we made them a bit bigger . the mute could possibly be a bit smaller . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : hum , you separate off in colour the volume related buttons from the channel related buttons , so you 've got the volume in orange on design there , user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and the the channel is in blue . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : r right . um , user interface : yeah , and we chose a v_ plus and v_ minus . project manager : all these things have cost implications . and so when i done my thing on cost a i had assumed that the only uh button that would be a different colour would be the uh the red apple button . so however , i 've now . but um , yeah so uh but there would be a cost implication on that , marketing : i 'll see if i can find them . project manager : and uh as i suppose that so whether wanted to put in all these colours , would be uh open to debate , i suppose . industrial designer : yeah , sis user interface : well the colours would n't like that 's they would n't be too important , marketing : have user interface : but we did n't have any white play-doh . so that 's where the colour buttons came from . project manager : an important consideration . marketing : project manager : right , okay so um and the second one underneath would be the idea for the industrial designer : yes , we 'll have the slide-away . project manager : right , okay . so we 've got um detail design meeting . industrial designer : bottom . project manager : right . so so , we 've got prototype presentation , which we 've just done , evaluation criteria , um and finance , so i guess w we have to evaluate if that meets the various uh aspects that we 're looking for uh from um our previous meeting . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : project manager : so other than the fact that it does n't have the second layer , but um obviously obviously it would . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : project manager : but other than that , we got the red apple . we got the buttons and the only thing that has really changed is the is the colouration of the buttons , industrial designer : yes , yes . project manager : and the bit after the evaluation criteria is uh is the finance . and the and the cost implication . industrial designer : okay . marketing : right . project manager : the only snag about this is that uh the cost is probably kind of important . so um , and then the production evaluation , as to how easy that would be to uh to manufacture . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um , and whether it would uh marketing : so if you had to do a presentation or will you just work it on the prototype ? industrial designer : this this is a user interface : uh , that 's it . industrial designer : yes , this is our presentation of the prototype . marketing : that 's the pr project manager : right , so uh as far as the the finance of it would be concern would be to make sure that the cost aye the production cost 'cause you may remember that was one of the first uh considerations was to be in d under um uh twelve fifty or two and a half uh twelve and a half euros . marketing : okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so , there 's no redesign . so that should uh right , so , seems to me that the thing that i have to do is is quickly find that uh industrial designer : could we get this on the board just so we can see or do you mean do you have the figures there ? marketing : we should plug it in . project manager : right . marketing : do you wan na plu do you wan na plug it in into the the back of that one . project manager : okay . industrial designer : 'kay , alice . so , sh marketing : we could do it as we d go along , the production costs , looking at the prototype . project manager : right . . industrial designer : 'kay this should be then . project manager : okay , so , by the fact that we 've got uh the simple chip and the uh kinetic energy source , we 've got a single curved case . we 've got a rubber uh case materials supplements . so , we had decided that we 're having rubber buttons and industrial designer : mm-hmm . have a push button interface . project manager : okay . w the button supplements . industrial designer : um project manager : well , originally , i thought there would just be uh one in there because it was the one red apple . but industrial designer : um project manager : so the so the real w the real question then would come in . do you make all the buttons marketing : well do we 'll do it on the prototype , so do two , see how much it is . project manager : well , so we 've got one special button form , which was the apple . everything else is gon na be a standard . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : we 've got special material , rubber , wood , titanium , et cetera and that , industrial designer : and then we 'd have project manager : so , i was originally , i was thinking rubber was n't special , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but according to this , maybe it is . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so and the r i mean effectively we 've got sixteen buttons that we 're gon na have on there . marketing : yeah . i think you just do one , do n't you , for the project manager : w i do n't know is is is the sort of answer , is that meant to be all sixteen buttons , and therefore i mean , what 's the op the option was maybe not to have rubber buttons , but just to have the one that was soft and spongy , and therefore marketing : i think i think it 's just it 's just a one . else project manager : whereas it would be the special colour would be for the so you would only have the one special button that was rubber , whereas the rest would be hard plastic . marketing : i thi i think i think the button supplement i is just a supplement for all the buttons made in a different material , rather than per button . i do n't know though . project manager : i would every design change is uh sound ] i dunno , um okay , um , if we just had all the buttons as standard , except for the one red apple , then that would take care of that , i guess . we 'd have one special colour and one special button form . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and when i plugged that in last time remember it has to be under twelve and a half . as far as i know , that um that took care of the uh of the various supplements . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and if what happened ? marketing : you 've just gone off the window into another one . it 's on the bottom row . user interface : maybe if you just minimise that one in the top right-hand corner of the little box . project manager : user interface : yeah . project manager : now , right . user interface : project manager : okay , so , but the point would be that if we uh if we just did special sorry , you were saying that it would be that one , that you would put in one there . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so that 's nine point one there so we 've got some project manager : so it well , is it s is no , it 's nine point seven i 've got . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . industrial designer : just give us a bit of project manager : so , that would that would work out fine if uh uh as assuming your correction are are assuming that that one change covers all the buttons , then that would be fine . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : and there 's nothing else as far as i can see that we we had uh planned to put on . marketing : industrial designer : i switching around those th um on the electronics we got the sample sensor . at the moment we 've just got the simple chip , which costs one . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : um , i guess the sample sens sample speaker would be the voice recognition thing , which puts up to four ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we should be slightly over our budget but if we gather something else down to slightly lower standard , and maybe go with the one the special form buttons , then we could have the speech marketing : yeah . project manager : well , hold on . um , if we okay , that gives us twelve point seven industrial designer : so uh maybe if we got rid of like the maybe one of the special colours , kept them all the same colour , then we could have the voice recognition project manager : but remember that the idea was to keep it the colour of the industrial designer : without project manager : oh , i see , so just take out the special colour for the apple and industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : um , . d would n't you have to keep the simple chip there as well ? you know how you turn that one to a zero , would n't the chip and the sample speaker be separate things , marketing : yeah , we have to have it industrial designer : oh possibly , yeah , yeah maybe . user interface : so you need both of them ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : maybe um we 'd be giving up on the kinetic . um project manager : and go for battery instead . marketing : yeah . project manager : that would give you one less . industrial designer : we should yeah , that would save us one , though we 'd still be slightly ov project manager : but you reckon that i i mean the thing is that you wanted to a appeal to people and not have to replace batteries . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . well , since it 's the through the whole technology type thing , um , you were saying in the market research that people like kind of interesting gadgets in them . um , whether they would figure the the s uh sample senor and the sample speaker , voice recognition be sort of a worthwhile thing to have . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and then still have the batteries , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or whatever they would prefer not uh you know what i mean ? the the problem was the battery 's running out and losing the um losing the remote . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so you got ta decide which of those is more important to them . project manager : but which do you think or which do we think is the more important of the options ? in a sense , at the moment , we 've got a total which we need to reduce down by one point two . user interface : i think the voice recognition . project manager : at least . remember that was a minimum requirement . the other option if we 're planning on just going for something cheap and cheerful , would be to um make it originally , we 're gon na make it a simple product . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : shall we shall we evaluate the prototype as we 've got it now first , and then sort of make decisions about what needs to be changed after ? project manager : mm-hmm . makes sense . marketing : okay . right um , i have a little thing . so , we 've all got a note of it 's thirteen point seven , is n't it , with everything we want on . project manager : . sorry , do you want that back up ? marketing : yeah , i just had a presentation to do . project manager : right . user interface : but i do think uh the v uh voice recognition thing would be more impressive than the fact that it 's got no battery . project manager : okay , but remember the main the only reason we were planning on having the voice recognition was so that they could find the remote if it got lost . marketing : mm-hmm . mm . right okay um , this is about the evaluation criteria that we use for the the prototype we 've got here . user interface : marketing : and so the method is that the design team makes a prototype , and we evaluate the prototype against some criteria that we 've formulated . and those ones are gon na be in response to sort of market research , and also finance , i guess . and do that on a scale from say true being one and false being seven , so if it 's neither true nor false , then that 's four . so , i got a set of criteria just based on the marketing that we need to add in a financial one as well , at the end . um so , we have to say whether it 's true or false that the product looks and feels fancy . um the whether the product demonstrates technical innovation . whether it 's easy to use . whether it 's incorporating sort of the fashion element to attract the buyer . and whether it 's a sort of recognisable real reaction product . and i have to go up onto the whiteboard and do this apparently , industrial designer : okay . marketing : so i 'll go over here . right . so the first one is um , does the product look and feel fancy . so if we do a sort of a one so industrial designer : okay , well we have a single curve , which was maybe like the feel of the product 's quite good . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so uh marketing : okay . industrial designer : um , then we have the rubber kinda spongy feel , which was in at the time . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . industrial designer : um , sorry that 'd be considered fancy . user interface : yeah , i 'd maybe give it a a two . marketing : of but i think what is one false , or is t one true ? user interface : one 's true . marketing : i forgot . one 's true , and okay . seven 's fal user interface : and a four is neutral . marketing : four is neutral , okay . so industrial designer : so maybe maybe a two . user interface : yeah , 'cause we have n't got the double curve , so we ca n't like say it 's completely true . project manager : go for one . yep . marketing : right . user interface : but it 's pretty close . we 've got almost everything we can . marketing : okay . right . project manager : okay . marketing : i gon na put underneath so i 've got some more space . so , false is seven , true is one , and so uh say about a two for fancy , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : you think ? project manager : yeah , why not not , marketing : okay . project manager : m m maybe nearer three . marketing : okay , well d you do an average at the end , i do n't know . um project manager : two three . well , it 's just that uh saying something remember that when you look down , we 've got solar power , we 've got uh various other things you could have , and we 're not going for these options . marketing : uh-huh . this this is just this is just for like the look . does it sort of look fancy rather than functional . so project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , i suppose that might be in the technical innovation bit . marketing : yeah , so that so sh should we go for a a two on that ? project manager : okay . marketing : 'kay . and i mean , how much does the product demonstrate technical innovation do you reckon ? industrial designer : um , deciding between the kinetic power or um the speech recognition , and if we had either of those for our budget , they both show a reasonable amount of speech recognition . marketing : d yeah . okay . so , what about the pr the prototype as it is , industrial designer : um marketing : we 've got we 've got the speech recognition on it , have n't we . industrial designer : but not the kinetic . marketing : but not the kinetic . industrial designer : like the power . project manager : no . 'cause you ca n't afford that w we took that out too . industrial designer : no , we c ca yeah , we ca n't afford both . marketing : alright , so project manager : did n't you ? or marketing : so it does n't it 's pretty the prototype as it is is n't sort of um fulfilling the industrial designer : no may is maybe about neutral user interface : maybe a three . industrial designer : plus it it it 's got something , but it has n't got marketing : okay . yeah . project manager : well , wait a minute . in thirteen point seven we do have kinetic . user interface : i would give it more than a four . project manager : the problem is we have to reduce down from there to get it down to twelve point five . industrial designer : right . project manager : and one way of doing that would be to take out the kinetic . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so , it 's very much dependant on what you do with your options . and if you 're definitely going for the sample sensor and sample speaker , then because that industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : right , okay . project manager : the other functions we 've got in are are more at the the special material , the rubber , wood , titanium , et cetera , if you go for that , th that 's at the high end 'cause that 's point six , whereas down at uh just special colours uh is point two . now you 're trying to lose one point two , so it seems to me that if you 're going for the sample sensors speaker , you 're basically then having to go for the cheaper options on everything else . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and and the simple way to do it would be to have a battery , to have your uh sample sensor speaker , industrial designer : um project manager : and then you 're looking to uh take out uh point two , marketing : s i 'm just gon na check my email . project manager : which would be come from the button supplements category . marketing : i 'm just gon na check exactly what it said in the email for um the product . user interface : how much of a difference would it make if we made the case in plastic ? because we did say that we do n't wan na follow the fashion too much . if the buttons are rubber that might be spongy enough . project manager : um , interface type um , user interface : and then it stand the test of time better . project manager : well plastic rather than rubber . marketing : okay . but i project manager : that that that would make the significant difference . you could either you could have it if you have a in plastic rather than rubber , then that would uh enable you to get you could keep kinetic then , you could keep your sample sensor , and you 'd be looking to take out point two . so you could uh fiddle that down your special form at the bottom , or your special colour at the bottom . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and that would enable you to to do it . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so it says if we make a slightly more fancy , then we lose points innovation , and if we make it more innovative innovative , then we lose points on it being fancy , so project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . , i just read the email again and it sort of says it 's evaluate the design sort of as it is , i think , so i think we need to think about finance after we 've sort of evaluated that design . i do n't know whether we 're doing it in the wrong order or something or . project manager : well , okay , but user interface : well , i suppose it 's rubber as it is , is n't it . project manager : it 's rubber as it is , yes . marketing : so , i mean does this need to go up a bit or something , 'cause we 've got both the both the um the speech project manager : we got we 've we 've got thirteen point seven user interface : yeah . project manager : and we 've got it in at the moment and if and basically , we 're going to reduce down from that . marketing : yeah . project manager : but the current one , you 'd say would be fancy , would be too industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah . um , for for innovation , so we 've got the speech the speech thing , and project manager : mm-hmm . i would 've said about a two as well . marketing : do you reckon a two ? user interface : yeah , two or three . i 'd be happy with a two . marketing : okay . two . and the next one is i 'll have to get it back up now . user interface : project manager : the next on well , i can just sing about . easy to use . i would 've said yes . i would go for a one on that at this point in time . user interface : yeah . yeah , marketing : okay . user interface : i would say so as well . project manager : um , incorporates elements of fashion to attract buyer . well , yeah it certainly has some . industrial designer : um project manager : . user interface : yeah , it 's got the cherry and the sponginess . industrial designer : it does , yeah . marketing : um say about a three maybe ? project manager : i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah , m um user interface : maybe two ? industrial designer : yeah , it was just doing it quite well . um , i think we 're gon na have to lose some of these , but the moment , as it stands , it 's um project manager : yeah , i woulda said two would seem reasonable . marketing : it 's a two . project manager : the product is a recognisable real r uh reaction product ? marketing : yeah , this is industrial designer : uh the sensor using all of its all of its products , all of its buttons , marketing : this project manager : industrial designer : and it 's got a fairly big label on the bottom saying where it comes from . user interface : yeah , that 's a bit rough at the minute . marketing : yeah . so this is about sort of the corporate image of like new sort of sleek technology and all that sort of thing , as well as having the logo on and all that . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so sort of is it sort of a recognisable product . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : does it fit in with our other other products , which uh are sort of coffee makers and spacecraft . project manager : s user interface : marketing : user interface : uh , well it 's got the same um speech feature as the coffee machine . marketing : what do y industrial designer : also it 's kind of spongy rubberiness is maybe bit more kinda comfortable than kinda sleek and new age . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um , it depends which way you look at it . marketing : uh-huh . project manager : okay . so we 're going for a two , marketing : so industrial designer : maybe a kind of three ? uh d project manager : three ? user interface : yeah , two or three . marketing : two or three ? user interface : well , the logo would be more um recognisable on the actual thing . it 's just that the pen would n't really write on that paper . project manager : sure . industrial designer : user interface : but um , i think the logo would definitely be recognisable . marketing : yeah . user interface : and it does have attributes that other products do . two ? aye . go for it . project manager : right , okay . marketing : two or three . user interface : project manager : two . marketing : how project manager : right , come on . that 's that decided . marketing : two . okay . project manager : right . so marketing : right . project manager : so we 're now on to changing it to get it to fit in with the budget requirements , and then marketing : yeah . user interface : what does what do all them numbers mean then ? do we add them up and rate or anything ? marketing : yeah we s yeah , i think we sort of add them up so sort of at an average is gon na be i 'm just gon na do this in my head . project manager : about a two . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : one point eight is n't it or something . i think , anyway . so yeah , pretty close to a two . industrial designer : yeah , so it 's marketing : so so it 's i mean it 's pretty good at the moment , but it 's gon na get worse , is n't it . but we 've got ta try and make sure it does n't get too bad . project manager : two b two b two , yeah . industrial designer : so should we get so are definite was it thirteen point seven was the definite price rule if has . marketing : industrial designer : okay , so we need to marketing : yeah . project manager : well , you can lose one point two and still meet the requirements . marketing : do you wan na plug it into yours so we can get up the the finances project manager : okay , well i put it back on . industrial designer : so i guess this is this the last stage once we sort out the finances part of it ? project manager : marketing : i 'm not sure . project manager : user interface : we 'll probably have to re-rate it . project manager : yes , i would 've thought so . industrial designer : yeah , yeah we 'll make the adjustments marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and then see how are rates are going . project manager : okay , so what was it , control uh f_ eight , was n't it ? user interface : ah it 's on . marketing : it 's come on already . project manager : oh . oh . how kind . user interface : project manager : right , okay . so , you can see there that the if you want to keep kinetic , right , you 've got a choice there of going down to battery , which would save you one . you 've got the sample sensor and and sample speaker , which is your big item . industrial designer : oh actually we just have a plastic case , then we lose two points , project manager : that 's right . industrial designer : which gets us um in right within the budget range . project manager : which gets you user interface : yeah , i think that 'd be fine . because that was just a trend , and we do have rubber buttons anyway . industrial designer : so that 's eleven point seven , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and then we could make sure we definitely had all the button supplements . project manager : alright . marketing : different different colours , yeah . yeah , i was i was thinking that because maybe maybe the sort of rubber case is a bit less in sort of the corporate identity than the sort of you know sleeker plastic case . industrial designer : possibly , yeah . um user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , so industrial designer : and that would allow us to have all the technical innovations . so we 'd lose a little bit on the maybe kind of project manager : so we 're going for plastic , yes ? marketing : lose a little bit on the fashion , yeah , but industrial designer : oh yeah , and that would now be marketing : and then industrial designer : yeah , that 's that 's within the budget . um do we actually have do we just have one special uh special forms down here ? project manager : well , uh w uh there was debate as to how you would count them . you got special colour . industrial designer : um project manager : well originally i was assuming we had the red apple , and therefore , that was the special colour . industrial designer : and we we 've we 've got we 've got enough for another user interface : yeah , i think we should just imagine white buttons . industrial designer : we 've got nought point eight left , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so we 've got enough for another project manager : well , we 've got special form . now that would be one button , and the question was was that all buttons or is that just one button . 'cause our plan really was to have one button only with a special industrial designer : yeah , um project manager : so so no matter how you look at that , that would be the same . industrial designer : but the but but but the project manager : the other thing would then be special material , rubber , wood , titanium . industrial designer : i think maybe the special colour , we 've got three now just because the volume buttons are different , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i guess we 'd have the ones which are blue at the moment would would just be the standard colour . project manager : alright . so , special colour , you want three in there . industrial designer : yeah , which i think we should yeah , they 'll still be fine for the for the price . project manager : okay . marketing : well i thin i think you you you just need two for the special colour 'cause it 's just two supplements , you know . one original colour and then sort of two supplements , i think maybe . project manager : that makes sense . industrial designer : okay , uh that 's probably it . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . so we only ne we only need two for that . project manager : okay . marketing : 'cause i mean these these are moulded . the one colour 's gon na be moulded out of a piece of plas uh of rubber , is n't it . project manager : okay . yeah , i would agree with that , i think . and we 've got special form is the one apple . marketing : right . project manager : the rest are all standard , although you could argue that should maybe be you were making these buttons down the bottom , i was presuming , bigger than the other ones , or were you ? was that the idea ? industrial designer : ne uh user interface : yeah , the volume ones should stand out a bit . industrial designer : maybe that 'll be a second supplement . then there 's a spe a second special form . marketing : yeah , that project manager : uh-huh . i would have thought that 's probably about r well . industrial designer : um well you got you got twelve . user interface : marketing : okay , so tha industrial designer : so i think that should still be okay . yeah , that 's twelve point three , project manager : right . industrial designer : so we 're still within budget on that . um project manager : yep , that makes sense . industrial designer : so decide we 've lost a little bit on the fashion and lost a bit on the fancy kinda side of it , but generally speaking , we 've kept the other attributes to the project manager : i woulda said so . yeah . so you 'd maybe put fash fan uh fashion at three rather than two . industrial designer : that 's without yeah . marketing : so shall we do a well , um industrial designer : and specially it definitely could fits the the real product what was the what 's the company name ? project manager : real reaction produ user interface : real reactions ? industrial designer : r yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : i 'm not quite sure , what does that mean ? marketing : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : i mean it still seems definitely fit that p so that 's like if that 's the new age kind of um inno innovative c type company , then um having the kinetic feature and the voice recognition is p quite high up on marketing : yeah , so uh project manager : yep i would s marketing : so it 's w if we 've if we 've put in for another special form on a button , then maybe they could be a different shape . like we got a cherry one . maybe other ones could be something else shaped . i do n't know . that would be poss seeing as seeing as it 's cheaper to make them a different seeing as we 've got , you know , we 've made it a a special form , so project manager : you mean of industrial designer : um marketing : and that would sort of maybe keep us close on the sort of the fashion type one . and it would sort of , you know , keep it quite fancy as well , project manager : well you could argue you might do it once a year , you would change , industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : i do n't know . project manager : because at the moment you 're making a red apple . so next year you could make next year 's model the same , but have it as a a yeah whate whatever , a lemon . industrial designer : yeah so it 's a marketing : well you could yeah . industrial designer : whatever fruit was in fashion next year . marketing : project manager : yeah , l a lemon lemon or something . marketing : yeah , i mean the volume buttons could be lemons or something , maybe . project manager : and that industrial designer : project manager : amount marketing : okay . so , we 've what have we what have we rid of . we got rid of the plastic . project manager : yeah , we 've the main thing we 've changed really is the casing is n't it ? marketing : is it industrial designer : that yeah , that was uh marketing : the rubber . industrial designer : that was just about all . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think we 've saved quite a bit because we 've just got the push-button interface , which is by far the cheapest . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um so maybe in a sense not having that , maybe we 've lost some maybe lost something on the innovation side ? marketing : but uh industrial designer : i dunno . and that is like the most standard type of button . marketing : so i mean , we 've got we got rid of the rubber case , but we 've now s we now sort of got an extra form , and an extra colour for the buttons . so maybe in terms of sort of fanciness and fashionability , we 're pretty much the same , maybe . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so , i mean we could maybe put two again on them . industrial designer : and everything else has stayed pretty much the same , so project manager : well , ease has certainly stayed . industrial designer : yeah , plus if anything that is special forms makes it slightly easier to to use . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . and what about the sort of innovation ? industrial designer : um , well we 've still got the kinetic energy . um marketing : do you think okay . project manager : and the speech feature . industrial designer : yeah , the speech feature . marketing : and then , the corporate identity . industrial designer : i think we 've cut just about the same . we 've maybe lost has n't it it 's hard to tell how the rubber the rubber casing would really affect project manager : how it would play out , yeah . oh . marketing : yeah . whether whether that 's considered to be sort of part of the corporate identity , i do n't know . industrial designer : um marketing : i mean , it 's maybe not . i mean industrial designer : but i think more the the features of the actual control will be more important than maybe than the the actual aesthetics , but marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : but either way , i think we 've made it fairly close to what marketing : yeah . okay , well i mean user interface : yeah , i do n't see how we could make it any more . um , apart from maybe doing the whole thing in the kinda light shade of blue , like the casing . marketing : we cou mm-hmm . user interface : but then what colour would you make the r_s ? industrial designer : just the the company logo . so maybe there 's like a set design which we get printed off . marketing : yeah . project manager : well , but you 've got the company logo on there , which would effectively be a stick-on badge . so you 're in a sense , you 're comparing the product without the company logo . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and then y but you 've got the space for it to stick it on . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : hey , what what what 's the company colour ? did you get told what the company colour is or industrial designer : i 'm still not quite sure we 've established that . project manager : do n't think so . user interface : i just project manager : but but i but in the sense that , as you saw with um the windows logo badge , it does n't really matter . user interface : we got the logo off the web browser . marketing : oh right . user interface : project manager : there 's virtually n the way that you frame , you know , the windows badge on there , it really does n't matter what colour it is , so long as our company 's logo is framed w in the same way as that with a like a black outline . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : fact , they 've got black and white or black and silver . so basically , even if you had a silver the same colour of silver on your display , because you 've got effectively a double edging on the uh on the logo , it means that it splits off what your logo is from the from the product . marketing : mm . project manager : and that 's actually quite a sneaky way of doing it . marketing : okay . uh-huh . 'cause you 've got sort of we 've got point two to play with if you really wanted to . project manager : you could put in another marketing : another colour . project manager : well , in this one , you 've actually got three colours of buttons . marketing : or would that be t project manager : well , we decided that the blue ones were the um the standard colour . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : so you were talking about uh um we 're assuming that all the buttons on the second panel , the hidden away panel , would all be standard . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : which m may or may not be the case . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um marketing : shall we save the point two for profitability then ? project manager : well , yeah . bu but but uh was the was there not a button that you were thinking of on the um on the other opt you know , on the second page , as it were , that uh you were thinking of maybe having as a different colour ? user interface : um , i do n't think they would really need to be . i think if they were just all small round blue buttons , it 'd be fine . industrial designer : yeah , maybe we 've m user interface : needs to be an enter button , but could just be the same as well . industrial designer : maybe for the the one they 're gon na see all the time , we make it look good , and um , fit the kind of idea of what they want . and then for the more functional buttons , we do n't worry too much about that and just have that as like a plus it 's hidden away anyway , you 're not gon na see it at the start . marketing : yeah . i mean it 's the sort of thing that , i mean , you wan na pick up the controller and just hit a button quickly to change the channel or volume . project manager : yeah , well marketing : so , if it 's dead obvious , then that 's fine . but if you 're opening the panel and you 're looking and you 're tuning , then you 're paying a bit more attention . so it may be sort of different colour buttons is n't so important . project manager : alright . okay . marketing : 'cause you yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so project manager : so we just add that to profitability in effect . marketing : yeah , i mean so we 've dropped the cost , but user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : right , so we 're meant to finish up in five minutes . marketing : same sort of function ? the criteria ? it 's alright . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : just made a load of money . user interface : should n't we maybe lose a point on fashion , go to a three ? 'cause we 've lost the overall spongy feel . 'cause it does n't seem right that it just has n't changed at all . project manager : marketing : well , but i think we said that w because you got rid of the rubber , we put an extra an extra sort of fruit um shape on one of the buttons . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : alright . marketing : le lemon sh user interface : did we decide what that was , which button it was ? on the volume ones ? marketing : i think well , we could have lemon shaped ones with the volume ones or something . user interface : right . project manager : industrial designer : uh , . that 's good . marketing : or something like that . yeah . project manager : industrial designer : definitely lemon shaped . marketing : industrial designer : marketing : did did you have to have a rubber case , though , for rubber buttons ? or was it the other way around ? industrial designer : you had to have rubber buttons if you had the rubber case . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i think we can we 're okay . marketing : right , okay . project manager : so we 're okay this way around . marketing : yeah . so that project manager : until the design team comes in and says , get off . marketing : so we 've saved project manager : but you are the design team . industrial designer : then we say it 's fine , so it 's all good . marketing : saved two euros on that . project manager : so what bit are we on to ? user interface : um , can i just check if that 's a cherry or an apple ? did we decide against the apple because of apple mac ? and did we make it a cherry officially ? project manager : yeah . i th i th marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : oh . right , okay . industrial designer : just in case we need that point two for lawsuits and such like . user interface : project manager : marketing : project manager : oh drats , i 've botched that , have n't i . user interface : so were we aiming for a certain target on that scale ? marketing : well , we 're aiming for um one for all of them . user interface : right . marketing : m but it really has to fit into the budget , so i guess we just have to adjust things to get it i in the which is fair enough . industrial designer : and we seem to have least something in each criteria . we have n't completely left anything out , so marketing : yeah . yeah , i think industrial designer : as an overall product which has to be quite cheap , we 've just about achieved everything . marketing : most yeah . yep . user interface : so do we have anything else to discuss ? marketing : i do n't know . what 's on the agenda ? project manager : right , okay um what 's happened here ? right , okay um mm . right , okay um , right . so we got so we 've done the the finance bit and the excel project and the we 've done the redesign . industrial designer : we 've got the closing . project manager : so we 're now on to project process . now satisfaction with , for example , room for creativity , leadership , teamwork , means , et cetera , whiteboard , digital pens , et cetera . so , we 're actually now uh , in a sense , on to the evaluation of the course rather than the evaluation of the project is m my understanding of it . industrial designer : marketing : uh-huh . project manager : so what did you and remembering that nobody 's just over the curtain . marketing : project manager : so , um marketing : finish your meeting now . industrial designer : we should just go through this quickly and then project manager : so marketing : yeah . project manager : i suppose the easiest way of doing it is to put some notes down , which i will do . marketing : okay . project manager : so , uh i think i have to finish that page . right , okay , so marketing : oh . project manager : project evaluation . so , um creativity . did you feel you got a chance to express yourselves well enough ? marketing : industrial designer : um , yeah . yeah . project manager : well um user interface : yeah . marketing : i thought some of the divisions though between sort of the individual meetings were a bit arbitrary . project manager : individual meetings . how do you mean ? marketing : yeah . well , we were finding out various things in in be in-between the meetings , project manager : in you on your own . marketing : and they did n't the one meeting did n't always follow on for the other one , you know , sort of we had things thrown in at the second meeting where , you know , you 'd looked at the remote controls and seen the curviness , but in the first one you 'd also looked at some remote controls and looked at the buttons , project manager : um marketing : and i do n't understand why it would be in separate meetings that you 'd do that . you know , you 'd sort of you 'd probably present it at one or something like that . project manager : mm , the only thing you find is in a manufacturing process , you would normally , you go to a meeting , you decide , right , you do this , you do that , you do that . marketing : yeah . project manager : then you go away . you find out information . you then come back . you then discuss it . you then go and change things around , marketing : uh-huh . project manager : and then go back . so industrial designer : yeah , i suppose and then be going out and finding more information each time marketing : yeah . project manager : whereas , this time , you 're really getting it from a database source , industrial designer : and then diff things will be relevant . marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's not uh well uh marketing : yeah . project manager : anyway , so , what do you want to put down ? user interface : marketing : project manager : i 've put , seemed okay . creativity , seemed okay . um um flow of information on on any given subject given subject um sometimes disjointed . marketing : yeah . user interface : i think it maybe could have been a slightly more creative project . i mean a remote control is n't the most um kind of fancy thing that you could imagine designing . marketing : yeah , the thing itself . project manager : um user interface : i ca n't think of a better example at the minute . marketing : yeah . project manager : have could have used a different example pel to increase create creativity . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : is this go it kinda kis fits the purpose that it was something everyone knows about and then something we can at least look at and think how we can improve on . project manager : you have to do it within a set time frame is the other thing , so marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . but think like it was a bit restrictive just to say that you have to design a television remote control , in a way . i mean it depends what sort of business you 're in , i guess . i mean this one seems . from the website it looks it 's quite innovative , but we 're coming up with some bucket shop product are n't we user interface : marketing : that 's , you know , fifteen quid . industrial designer : one of those things . like uh , companies can have like a range of products and project manager : i th i uh d industrial designer : i do n't know how it works but i guess that something got sent out and have like a brief to kind of project manager : but the other thing is that uh they 're i 'm guessing that they 're trying to use this um software to to demonstrate how you could uh do a project . i mean , m my wife at the moment , for instance , is uh acting as a computer marketing : yeah . project manager : um for um you normally , you got a problem , so you go to your tutor and find out information to see how to get it fixed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so what she 's doing is she 's having to spend a day at the computer terminal at one end so that any student that comes along can uh ask whatever question . and then you or the idea is that the whichever uh person 's at the other end can point them in the right direction , show them where to either give them directly give them help , or secondly , point them in the right direction , either at the library , or uh or or come back , or go and see joe bloggs , or whatever . so uh , and that was a project i suspect similar to this , because they they were actually trying to debug the uh computer software to enable um to enable it to work . and of course , you had the machine crashing industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and various things going wrong . so industrial designer : well , sh we look at the last slide , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : see if it 's got anything else . project manager : alright , industrial designer : i think there 's one one more to go . project manager : so we 've got uh marketing : yeah . i mean if you look at their products on their website here , real reaction , i mean it 's all pretty high-tech and cutting edge . project manager : new ideas found , marketing : and project manager : did we find any , no . industrial designer : it was quite good with this um the white board , having that and the digital pens . project manager : alright . industrial designer : like , that 's something that made it a little easier . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : leadership , teamwork . marketing : we did find a new idea , i mean sort of a kinetic remote control . i 've never seen one of them before . batteries , i think . so project manager : does industrial designer : voice recognition , especially not could project manager : you 've got voice recognition computers , marketing : mm yeah . project manager : that 's not remote controls . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : well it 's a different application of it . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , industrial designer : yeah , so it 's just like the same products , but just put together in a different way . project manager : so how do you reckon teamwork went ? industrial designer : um marketing : that went okay , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i guess we all had separate ideas and then discussed them . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . project manager : to uh go uh reasonably well . okay . marketing : i do n't think sort of the budget um allowed us to do anything project manager : bit bit arbitrary . marketing : well , i mean i do n't think it i just do n't think it fitted in with the rest of their products . i mean , they 've got all these sort of , you know , high definition d_v_d_ and portable seven inch d um lightweight computer screens , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and uh i 'm thinking , do you know , one cheap remote control does n't really fit in . project manager : so , we 're m we 're meant to comment on leadership and the means , e_ g_ whiteboard , digital pens , et cetera . user interface : marketing : surely they they should produ project manager : and and new i new ideas found was the the other thing . user interface : well leadership 's a bit of a funny one , is n't it . marketing : yeah . user interface : but we ca n't really all fairly comment on leadership because you are the project manager . project manager : user interface : you were the leader . so our experience of leadership was n't really as much as yours . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : now , i 'd much rather be in marketing user interface : marketing : project manager : but i certainly did n't get this uh computer to work as well as i would have liked . marketing : project manager : however , um alright uh means , so whiteboard um so really , it 's uh equipment . oh . marketing : yeah . it worked . user interface : yeah , very nice . marketing : comput computers could be a bit difficult at times but user interface : but i mean , i d i do n't i 'm not sure i see the value in these . i mean , they record what you 're writing , and then what do you do with it ? where do you get the recording ? do you plug the computer or something ? marketing : i think there 's a little there 's a little um chi industrial designer : so it 's not just for us , it 's for the experiment as a whole , so marketing : there 's a little there 's a little chip , i think you must plug it into something industrial designer : should we quickly look at the last slide ? marketing : and it produces a industrial designer : sh user interface : right . i think you watch a video of it kind of . marketing : i do n't know . whether it just produces a big image of sort of everything you 've written or something , and page after page . project manager : right . new ideas found , so one or two . marketing : yeah . kinetic powered remote control . um , what was the other one ? user interface : voice um recognition thing . marketing : vo yeah . project manager : um and uh voice marketing : project manager : uh , was it voice activated um marketing : voice recognition , yeah . s project manager : recognition . marketing : almost . user interface : pretty much . marketing : to fill in these fill in these questionnaires project manager : right , so , uh are the costs within budget , marketing : oh no . project manager : yes . is the project evaluated , yes . uh , do n't forget to complete final questionnaire and meeting summary . then celebration . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : . is that everything ? marketing : hmm ? i think that we 've got two questionnaires and a report on the last meeting . </s>
<s> summarize the team 's evaluation of the prototype . </s> marketing : shall we shall we evaluate the prototype as we 've got it now first , and then sort of make decisions about what needs to be changed after ? project manager : mm-hmm . makes sense . marketing : okay . right um , i have a little thing . so , we 've all got a note of it 's thirteen point seven , is n't it , with everything we want on . project manager : . sorry , do you want that back up ? marketing : yeah , i just had a presentation to do . project manager : right . user interface : but i do think uh the v uh voice recognition thing would be more impressive than the fact that it 's got no battery . project manager : okay , but remember the main the only reason we were planning on having the voice recognition was so that they could find the remote if it got lost . marketing : mm-hmm . mm . right okay um , this is about the evaluation criteria that we use for the the prototype we 've got here . user interface : marketing : and so the method is that the design team makes a prototype , and we evaluate the prototype against some criteria that we 've formulated . and those ones are gon na be in response to sort of market research , and also finance , i guess . and do that on a scale from say true being one and false being seven , so if it 's neither true nor false , then that 's four . so , i got a set of criteria just based on the marketing that we need to add in a financial one as well , at the end . um so , we have to say whether it 's true or false that the product looks and feels fancy . um the whether the product demonstrates technical innovation . whether it 's easy to use . whether it 's incorporating sort of the fashion element to attract the buyer . and whether it 's a sort of recognisable real reaction product . and i have to go up onto the whiteboard and do this apparently , industrial designer : okay . marketing : so i 'll go over here . right . so the first one is um , does the product look and feel fancy . so if we do a sort of a one so industrial designer : okay , well we have a single curve , which was maybe like the feel of the product 's quite good . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so uh marketing : okay . industrial designer : um , then we have the rubber kinda spongy feel , which was in at the time . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . industrial designer : um , sorry that 'd be considered fancy . user interface : yeah , i 'd maybe give it a a two . marketing : of but i think what is one false , or is t one true ? user interface : one 's true . marketing : i forgot . one 's true , and okay . seven 's fal user interface : and a four is neutral . marketing : four is neutral , okay . so industrial designer : so maybe maybe a two . user interface : yeah , 'cause we have n't got the double curve , so we ca n't like say it 's completely true . project manager : go for one . yep . marketing : right . user interface : but it 's pretty close . we 've got almost everything we can . marketing : okay . right . project manager : okay . marketing : i gon na put underneath so i 've got some more space . so , false is seven , true is one , and so uh say about a two for fancy , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : you think ? project manager : yeah , why not not , marketing : okay . project manager : m m maybe nearer three . marketing : okay , well d you do an average at the end , i do n't know . um project manager : two three . well , it 's just that uh saying something remember that when you look down , we 've got solar power , we 've got uh various other things you could have , and we 're not going for these options . marketing : uh-huh . this this is just this is just for like the look . does it sort of look fancy rather than functional . so project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , i suppose that might be in the technical innovation bit . marketing : yeah , so that so sh should we go for a a two on that ? project manager : okay . marketing : 'kay . and i mean , how much does the product demonstrate technical innovation do you reckon ? industrial designer : um , deciding between the kinetic power or um the speech recognition , and if we had either of those for our budget , they both show a reasonable amount of speech recognition . marketing : d yeah . okay . so , what about the pr the prototype as it is , industrial designer : um marketing : we 've got we 've got the speech recognition on it , have n't we . industrial designer : but not the kinetic . marketing : but not the kinetic . industrial designer : like the power . project manager : no . 'cause you ca n't afford that w we took that out too . industrial designer : no , we c ca yeah , we ca n't afford both . marketing : alright , so project manager : did n't you ? or marketing : so it does n't it 's pretty the prototype as it is is n't sort of um fulfilling the industrial designer : no may is maybe about neutral user interface : maybe a three . industrial designer : plus it it it 's got something , but it has n't got marketing : okay . yeah . project manager : well , wait a minute . in thirteen point seven we do have kinetic . user interface : i would give it more than a four . project manager : the problem is we have to reduce down from there to get it down to twelve point five . industrial designer : right . project manager : and one way of doing that would be to take out the kinetic . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so , it 's very much dependant on what you do with your options . and if you 're definitely going for the sample sensor and sample speaker , then because that industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : right , okay . project manager : the other functions we 've got in are are more at the the special material , the rubber , wood , titanium , et cetera , if you go for that , th that 's at the high end 'cause that 's point six , whereas down at uh just special colours uh is point two . now you 're trying to lose one point two , so it seems to me that if you 're going for the sample sensors speaker , you 're basically then having to go for the cheaper options on everything else . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and and the simple way to do it would be to have a battery , to have your uh sample sensor speaker , industrial designer : um project manager : and then you 're looking to uh take out uh point two , marketing : s i 'm just gon na check my email . project manager : which would be come from the button supplements category . marketing : i 'm just gon na check exactly what it said in the email for um the product . user interface : how much of a difference would it make if we made the case in plastic ? because we did say that we do n't wan na follow the fashion too much . if the buttons are rubber that might be spongy enough . project manager : um , interface type um , user interface : and then it stand the test of time better . project manager : well plastic rather than rubber . marketing : okay . but i project manager : that that that would make the significant difference . you could either you could have it if you have a in plastic rather than rubber , then that would uh enable you to get you could keep kinetic then , you could keep your sample sensor , and you 'd be looking to take out point two . so you could uh fiddle that down your special form at the bottom , or your special colour at the bottom . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and that would enable you to to do it . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so it says if we make a slightly more fancy , then we lose points innovation , and if we make it more innovative innovative , then we lose points on it being fancy , so project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . , i just read the email again and it sort of says it 's evaluate the design sort of as it is , i think , so i think we need to think about finance after we 've sort of evaluated that design . i do n't know whether we 're doing it in the wrong order or something or . project manager : well , okay , but user interface : well , i suppose it 's rubber as it is , is n't it . project manager : it 's rubber as it is , yes . marketing : so , i mean does this need to go up a bit or something , 'cause we 've got both the both the um the speech project manager : we got we 've we 've got thirteen point seven user interface : yeah . project manager : and we 've got it in at the moment and if and basically , we 're going to reduce down from that . marketing : yeah . project manager : but the current one , you 'd say would be fancy , would be too industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah . um , for for innovation , so we 've got the speech the speech thing , and project manager : mm-hmm . i would 've said about a two as well . marketing : do you reckon a two ? user interface : yeah , two or three . i 'd be happy with a two . marketing : okay . two . and the next one is i 'll have to get it back up now . user interface : project manager : the next on well , i can just sing about . easy to use . i would 've said yes . i would go for a one on that at this point in time . user interface : yeah . yeah , marketing : okay . user interface : i would say so as well . project manager : um , incorporates elements of fashion to attract buyer . well , yeah it certainly has some . industrial designer : um project manager : . user interface : yeah , it 's got the cherry and the sponginess . industrial designer : it does , yeah . marketing : um say about a three maybe ? project manager : i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah , m um user interface : maybe two ? industrial designer : yeah , it was just doing it quite well . um , i think we 're gon na have to lose some of these , but the moment , as it stands , it 's um project manager : yeah , i woulda said two would seem reasonable . marketing : it 's a two . project manager : the product is a recognisable real r uh reaction product ? marketing : yeah , this is industrial designer : uh the sensor using all of its all of its products , all of its buttons , marketing : this project manager : industrial designer : and it 's got a fairly big label on the bottom saying where it comes from . user interface : yeah , that 's a bit rough at the minute . marketing : yeah . so this is about sort of the corporate image of like new sort of sleek technology and all that sort of thing , as well as having the logo on and all that . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so sort of is it sort of a recognisable product . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : does it fit in with our other other products , which uh are sort of coffee makers and spacecraft . project manager : s user interface : marketing : user interface : uh , well it 's got the same um speech feature as the coffee machine . marketing : what do y industrial designer : also it 's kind of spongy rubberiness is maybe bit more kinda comfortable than kinda sleek and new age . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um , it depends which way you look at it . marketing : uh-huh . project manager : okay . so we 're going for a two , marketing : so industrial designer : maybe a kind of three ? uh d project manager : three ? user interface : yeah , two or three . marketing : two or three ? user interface : well , the logo would be more um recognisable on the actual thing . it 's just that the pen would n't really write on that paper . project manager : sure . industrial designer : user interface : but um , i think the logo would definitely be recognisable . marketing : yeah . user interface : and it does have attributes that other products do . two ? aye . go for it . project manager : right , okay . marketing : two or three . user interface : project manager : two . marketing : how project manager : right , come on . that 's that decided . marketing : two . okay . project manager : right . so marketing : right . project manager : so we 're now on to changing it to get it to fit in with the budget requirements , and then marketing : yeah . user interface : what does what do all them numbers mean then ? do we add them up and rate or anything ? marketing : yeah we s yeah , i think we sort of add them up so sort of at an average is gon na be i 'm just gon na do this in my head . project manager : about a two . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : one point eight is n't it or something . i think , anyway . so yeah , pretty close to a two . industrial designer : yeah , so it 's marketing : so so it 's i mean it 's pretty good at the moment , but it 's gon na get worse , is n't it . but we 've got ta try and make sure it does n't get too bad . project manager : two b two b two , yeah . industrial designer : so should we get so are definite was it thirteen point seven was the definite price rule if has . marketing : industrial designer : okay , so we need to </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think of the look of the product when discussing the evaluation of the prototype . </s> marketing : so i 'll go over here . right . so the first one is um , does the product look and feel fancy . so if we do a sort of a one so industrial designer : okay , well we have a single curve , which was maybe like the feel of the product 's quite good . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so uh marketing : okay . industrial designer : um , then we have the rubber kinda spongy feel , which was in at the time . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . industrial designer : um , sorry that 'd be considered fancy . user interface : yeah , i 'd maybe give it a a two . marketing : of but i think what is one false , or is t one true ? user interface : one 's true . marketing : i forgot . one 's true , and okay . seven 's fal user interface : and a four is neutral . marketing : four is neutral , okay . so industrial designer : so maybe maybe a two . user interface : yeah , 'cause we have n't got the double curve , so we ca n't like say it 's completely true . project manager : go for one . yep . marketing : right . user interface : but it 's pretty close . we 've got almost everything we can . marketing : okay . right . project manager : okay . marketing : i gon na put underneath so i 've got some more space . so , false is seven , true is one , and so uh say about a two for fancy , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : you think ? project manager : yeah , why not not , </s>
<s> what did user interface think about the attractiveness of the product when discussing the evaluation of the prototype ? </s> project manager : um , incorporates elements of fashion to attract buyer . well , yeah it certainly has some . industrial designer : um project manager : . user interface : yeah , it 's got the cherry and the sponginess . industrial designer : it does , yeah . marketing : um say about a three maybe ? project manager : i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah , m um user interface : maybe two ? </s>
<s> summarize the team 's evaluation of the process of the project . </s> project manager : so we 're now on to project process . now satisfaction with , for example , room for creativity , leadership , teamwork , means , et cetera , whiteboard , digital pens , et cetera . so , we 're actually now uh , in a sense , on to the evaluation of the course rather than the evaluation of the project is m my understanding of it . industrial designer : marketing : uh-huh . project manager : so what did you and remembering that nobody 's just over the curtain . marketing : project manager : so , um marketing : finish your meeting now . industrial designer : we should just go through this quickly and then project manager : so marketing : yeah . project manager : i suppose the easiest way of doing it is to put some notes down , which i will do . marketing : okay . project manager : so , uh i think i have to finish that page . right , okay , so marketing : oh . project manager : project evaluation . so , um creativity . did you feel you got a chance to express yourselves well enough ? marketing : industrial designer : um , yeah . yeah . project manager : well um user interface : yeah . marketing : i thought some of the divisions though between sort of the individual meetings were a bit arbitrary . project manager : individual meetings . how do you mean ? marketing : yeah . well , we were finding out various things in in be in-between the meetings , project manager : in you on your own . marketing : and they did n't the one meeting did n't always follow on for the other one , you know , sort of we had things thrown in at the second meeting where , you know , you 'd looked at the remote controls and seen the curviness , but in the first one you 'd also looked at some remote controls and looked at the buttons , project manager : um marketing : and i do n't understand why it would be in separate meetings that you 'd do that . you know , you 'd sort of you 'd probably present it at one or something like that . project manager : mm , the only thing you find is in a manufacturing process , you would normally , you go to a meeting , you decide , right , you do this , you do that , you do that . marketing : yeah . project manager : then you go away . you find out information . you then come back . you then discuss it . you then go and change things around , marketing : uh-huh . project manager : and then go back . so industrial designer : yeah , i suppose and then be going out and finding more information each time marketing : yeah . project manager : whereas , this time , you 're really getting it from a database source , industrial designer : and then diff things will be relevant . marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's not uh well uh marketing : yeah . project manager : anyway , so , what do you want to put down ? user interface : marketing : project manager : i 've put , seemed okay . creativity , seemed okay . um um flow of information on on any given subject given subject um sometimes disjointed . marketing : yeah . user interface : i think it maybe could have been a slightly more creative project . i mean a remote control is n't the most um kind of fancy thing that you could imagine designing . marketing : yeah , the thing itself . project manager : um user interface : i ca n't think of a better example at the minute . marketing : yeah . project manager : have could have used a different example pel to increase create creativity . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : is this go it kinda kis fits the purpose that it was something everyone knows about and then something we can at least look at and think how we can improve on . project manager : you have to do it within a set time frame is the other thing , so marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . but think like it was a bit restrictive just to say that you have to design a television remote control , in a way . i mean it depends what sort of business you 're in , i guess . i mean this one seems . from the website it looks it 's quite innovative , but we 're coming up with some bucket shop product are n't we user interface : marketing : that 's , you know , fifteen quid . industrial designer : one of those things . like uh , companies can have like a range of products and project manager : i th i uh d industrial designer : i do n't know how it works but i guess that something got sent out and have like a brief to kind of project manager : but the other thing is that uh they 're i 'm guessing that they 're trying to use this um software to to demonstrate how you could uh do a project . i mean , m my wife at the moment , for instance , is uh acting as a computer marketing : yeah . project manager : um for um you normally , you got a problem , so you go to your tutor and find out information to see how to get it fixed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so what she 's doing is she 's having to spend a day at the computer terminal at one end so that any student that comes along can uh ask whatever question . and then you or the idea is that the whichever uh person 's at the other end can point them in the right direction , show them where to either give them directly give them help , or secondly , point them in the right direction , either at the library , or uh or or come back , or go and see joe bloggs , or whatever . so uh , and that was a project i suspect similar to this , because they they were actually trying to debug the uh computer software to enable um to enable it to work . and of course , you had the machine crashing industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and various things going wrong . so industrial designer : well , sh we look at the last slide , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : see if it 's got anything else . project manager : alright , industrial designer : i think there 's one one more to go . project manager : so we 've got uh marketing : yeah . i mean if you look at their products on their website here , real reaction , i mean it 's all pretty high-tech and cutting edge . project manager : new ideas found , marketing : and project manager : did we find any , no . industrial designer : it was quite good with this um the white board , having that and the digital pens . project manager : alright . industrial designer : like , that 's something that made it a little easier . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : leadership , teamwork . marketing : we did find a new idea , i mean sort of a kinetic remote control . i 've never seen one of them before . batteries , i think . so project manager : does industrial designer : voice recognition , especially not could project manager : you 've got voice recognition computers , marketing : mm yeah . project manager : that 's not remote controls . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : well it 's a different application of it . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , industrial designer : yeah , so it 's just like the same products , but just put together in a different way . project manager : so how do you reckon teamwork went ? industrial designer : um marketing : that went okay , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i guess we all had separate ideas and then discussed them . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . project manager : to uh go uh reasonably well . okay . marketing : i do n't think sort of the budget um allowed us to do anything project manager : bit bit arbitrary . marketing : well , i mean i do n't think it i just do n't think it fitted in with the rest of their products . i mean , they 've got all these sort of , you know , high definition d_v_d_ and portable seven inch d um lightweight computer screens , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and uh i 'm thinking , do you know , one cheap remote control does n't really fit in . project manager : so , we 're m we 're meant to comment on leadership and the means , e_ g_ whiteboard , digital pens , et cetera . user interface : marketing : surely they they should produ project manager : and and new i new ideas found was the the other thing . user interface : well leadership 's a bit of a funny one , is n't it . marketing : yeah . user interface : but we ca n't really all fairly comment on leadership because you are the project manager . project manager : user interface : you were the leader . so our experience of leadership was n't really as much as yours . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : now , i 'd much rather be in marketing user interface : marketing : project manager : but i certainly did n't get this uh computer to work as well as i would have liked . marketing : project manager : however , um alright uh means , so whiteboard um so really , it 's uh equipment . oh . marketing : yeah . it worked . user interface : yeah , very nice . marketing : comput computers could be a bit difficult at times but user interface : but i mean , i d i do n't i 'm not sure i see the value in these . i mean , they record what you 're writing , and then what do you do with it ? where do you get the recording ? do you plug the computer or something ? marketing : i think there 's a little there 's a little um chi industrial designer : so it 's not just for us , it 's for the experiment as a whole , so marketing : there 's a little there 's a little chip , i think you must plug it into something industrial designer : should we quickly look at the last slide ? marketing : and it produces a industrial designer : sh user interface : right . i think you watch a video of it kind of . marketing : i do n't know . whether it just produces a big image of sort of everything you 've written or something , and page after page . project manager : right . new ideas found , so one or two . marketing : yeah . kinetic powered remote control . um , what was the other one ? user interface : voice um recognition thing . marketing : vo yeah . project manager : um and uh voice marketing : project manager : uh , was it voice activated um marketing : voice recognition , yeah . s project manager : recognition . marketing : almost . user interface : pretty much . marketing : to fill in these fill in these questionnaires project manager : right , so , uh are the costs within budget , marketing : oh no . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the creativeness of the team when discussing the process of the project ? </s> project manager : mm , the only thing you find is in a manufacturing process , you would normally , you go to a meeting , you decide , right , you do this , you do that , you do that . marketing : yeah . project manager : then you go away . you find out information . you then come back . you then discuss it . you then go and change things around , marketing : uh-huh . project manager : and then go back . so industrial designer : yeah , i suppose and then be going out and finding more information each time marketing : yeah . project manager : whereas , this time , you 're really getting it from a database source , industrial designer : and then diff things will be relevant . marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's not uh well uh marketing : yeah . project manager : anyway , so , what do you want to put down ? user interface : marketing : project manager : i 've put , seemed okay . creativity , seemed okay . um um flow of information on on any given subject given subject um sometimes disjointed . marketing : yeah . user interface : i think it maybe could have been a slightly more creative project . i mean a remote control is n't the most um kind of fancy thing that you could imagine designing . </s>
<s> what did user interface think of the evaluation of the team 's leadership when discussing the process of the project ? </s> project manager : so , we 're m we 're meant to comment on leadership and the means , e_ g_ whiteboard , digital pens , et cetera . user interface : marketing : surely they they should produ project manager : and and new i new ideas found was the the other thing . user interface : well leadership 's a bit of a funny one , is n't it . marketing : yeah . user interface : but we ca n't really all fairly comment on leadership because you are the project manager . project manager : user interface : you were the leader . so our experience of leadership was n't really as much as yours . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : now , i 'd much rather be in marketing user interface : </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : good . industrial designer : beep . oh . project manager : so well uh user interface : what ? project manager : welcome everyone . user interface : yeah . project manager : um as you may have noticed i uh user interface : industrial designer : project manager : created separate folders because it was uh tending to get a little busy in our uh shared project documents uh folder . user interface : yeah . project manager : i do n't know if everybody uh put their own uh documents in the right folder , which is for now the detailed design meeting . marketing : that 's new one ? project manager : yeah . user interface : we did n't make any uh industrial designer : uh , we should save that one . user interface : oh in project manager : then i 'll move this one . user interface : did n't we just do that ? industrial designer : yeah , save in the folder . save as project . project manager : oh no , this is just one big document , so you can leave that wherever it is . industrial designer : oh , okay . project manager : and we have a evaluation left here . user interface : industrial designer : hmm hmm . project manager : okay . industrial designer : agenda . project manager : well not main documents this time . oh uh yes . i have it open myself i guess . um well the detailed design meeting huh ? we 're finally getting somewhere hopefully . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : um what are we going to do ? i 've opened it already . um i 'm still going to take some minutes , and if i 'm right , you two are going to give a prototype presentation ? industrial designer : oh , sorry . marketing : project manager : are n't you ? user interface : we could . project manager : yes , you are . industrial designer : project manager : and uh m did you do something with evaluation criteria ? marketing : yep . yep . project manager : good . and we have a correct agenda . and uh then we have to look at something which is less nice , the finance uh aspect , whether we can afford what we have designed , user interface : oops . project manager : and if we can we can uh commence the final part which is the production or project evaluation , how did we work together and what are the results , and how happy are we with those . okay , well finance uh will be later . now i 'd like to give the word to you two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . user interface : well uh industrial designer : get up stand up . just user interface : we made a prototype . industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : we first start with the overall uh this is about the total remote control . industrial designer : view . user interface : we made it green . industrial designer : just example colour , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so uh there 's one of the colours we would like to uh see in our prototype . user interface : it 's a fresh colour . and uh the screen light blue . oh uh this the scroll button and the microphone on the on the sides here under . and the r_ and r_ logo , it just says r_ and r_ now , but uh industrial designer : okay ? user interface : any questions so far ? marketing : big microphone . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : just uh just an idea about how to m th that could also be possible . marketing : oh okay . that 's the place where it 's going to be , not the size . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh well , it 's an idea in a so . user interface : oh y you perhaps you should make it a bit big , so people know it 's there and uh industrial designer : do not forget it . user interface : uh marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : to function it it does n't really have to be sm uh big of course . marketing : yeah , okay . of course . industrial designer : the microphone could be just a minor uh hole uh on the left uh button . marketing : mm . mm , th yeah . industrial designer : okay um marketing : small . industrial designer : we also made some uh ideas about how uh the options menu would work . uh using the scroll button on sides uh y uh i uh um user interface : you push the scroll button industrial designer : yeah , you push the scroll button user interface : and it 's claps out if there 's a industrial designer : and a drop down menu or a pull out menu comes out and uh you get uh you get the options uh becoming available . for example uh tv settings , uh remote settings , et cetera . user interface : remote settings , et cetera . yeah . industrial designer : so uh you can scroll down too with the scroll uh button , uh as you can see oh , it 's here , just push it in , uh the menu comes out like this and uh i it all becomes visible . um user interface : yeah . and you could also touch it so that it comes out , industrial designer : yeah , that 's c user interface : and and use the the the scroll thing as a with your fingers . industrial designer : yeah . indeed . okay , um it 's also uh nice to see that um we made a small uh menu , uh the options menu uh becoming available when pressing the uh scroll uh button , and the opportunity to use the teletext , whi which is used uh which should still be used and we think that it 's uh very handy to put it uh not uh under the options menu , but in uh yes . in an apart uh user interface : yeah . project manager : so a separate button for for text , industrial designer : in a separate button , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : perhaps we should use the teletext sign in p yeah . industrial designer : a sign , yeah , just like okay , indeed . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay , user interface : forgot . industrial designer : we can uh modify that later . okay . would you like to make any comments about next uh user interface : uh well , this is the total interface uh that f of the lcd screen . uh the numbers , which is pretty straight forward . we put ano an an extra button in . we can erase it , but it 's the button where you can switch channels . just when you are one and you go to two , you can or if you go to five , you can go back to one with that button . yeah , that one , yeah . industrial designer : previous page , yeah , indeed . user interface : it has a name . and uh uh we put that in , industrial designer : oh my god . user interface : i thought it would be handy there . uh this the one number or two numbers button . below that , the page and the sound . and uh in the middle the the mute . uh battery indicator . industrial designer : it 's quite large . user interface : it 's it 's a bit big . marketing : user interface : and this is the uh the on off uh knop , the stand by uh knop . or at least it should look like it . and the options uh of teletext . industrial designer : okay . you can see very clearly now that the uh teletext and options menu is n't uh taking uh much uh uh it 's taking much part of the screen , so it 's very uh when you uh when you use it , does n't uh become irritating to see . 'cause if you put it on the top you always get see the the options menu . 'cause people regularly uh read from left top to right down , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so user interface : yeah . well this about it , i think . industrial designer : okay . huh . user interface : yeah . project manager : thank you . looks good . user interface : i will put it back on the on the nice green . industrial designer : project manager : and i just missed when i was typing the r_r_ stands for ? user interface : that 's the logo of the project manager : logo , okay . user interface : yeah . it 's th th right now it 's only r_ r_ , but uh marketing : project manager : okay well industrial designer : full screen . project manager : i would have recognised it if it were the right colours of course . marketing : shit . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : alright . user interface : sorry . marketing : 'kay . project manager : okay , the evaluation criteria , user interface : oh full screen , yeah . marketing : evaluation . 'kay , my task was this time to put up a questionnaire by which we can evaluate the design of the remote control by the questions we requirements from the of the users . my name , my job , okay . industrial designer : my name , my job . user interface : marketing : the methods . questionnaire with seven point scale from one to seven , from true to false , user interface : right . marketing : like question , is remote big enough , we can say it 's true or it 's false by steps . one means absolutely not true , seven means true . user interface : yeah . marketing : the three important things of refa are uh from th of this year is are , industrial designer : sorry , user interface : industrial designer : you used the powerpoint marketing : is the remote control fancy enough , user interface : yeah . marketing : is it in innovative enough , and is it easy enough to use . and then evaluation itself . uh . user interface : industrial designer : what ? bling . marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : first question . is the design fancy enough ? user interface : well marketing : project manager , what do you think ? project manager : well it 's looks fancy , especially with the green colour . and the the curves which we decided , user interface : yeah . marketing : but does it yeah . project manager : only what happened to the single curve we spoke about last meeting ? user interface : it uh oh it 's in the background . oh . industrial designer : now uh the single curved idea was uh yeah , okay , you ge um user interface : y you should make uh a sideways uh view . industrial designer : yeah . the sideways view , uh that that that ma user interface : it will be , i guess . oh , we can industrial designer : ho not that pen . not that pen . marketing : project manager : well user interface : g i would smart board . project manager : it might work one time , huh . industrial designer : suppose so . user interface : uh can i draw here or uh marketing : think . industrial designer : ah . oh my god , marketing : yeah , yeah , you can . user interface : so it would be uh something like this from the side , but with a bit of uh curve here , industrial designer : it works . user interface : right ? industrial designer : yeah , that 's the single curve indeed . user interface : yeah . so if you v flip it like this . project manager : okay . user interface : here 's yeah . industrial designer : that 's not very i it 's also uh very handy if you make a side curve way to make the the remote control very thin at the bottom uh at a bottom at a bottom . uh make it uh rather thick on the top , because uh on the top it has uh the screen , which takes uh in some uh space , and the batteries can be located over there , user interface : yeah . so you just make the back of this part a bit bigger , industrial designer : so uh user interface : so that it lays a bit o industrial designer : yeah . marketing : is n't going to be a little bit heavy at the top ? user interface : yeah , that 's a bit of problem maybe . marketing : with two batteries , the whole print plate and t and top , and if you 're holding it quite a lot i think user interface : yeah . i think yeah , the battery should be in here , because it 's just nothing , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so if you could marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay , indeed . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , but we have to rate uh these things now ? user interface : 'cause otherwise i think i marketing : yeah , we have to rate . project manager : okay . marketing : is it fancy enough ? true is one , false is seven . so fancy enough means , does it comes to the younger people and the elder people . user interface : i think it does . industrial designer : i think so . user interface : i if you do n't make it green , then the elder people wo n't wo n't like it . industrial designer : it 's pretty fancy . marketing : i think yeah , i have to agree , all the colour colours don don does n't matter that m that much now , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you get th project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's only design . user interface : i think it does . project manager : yeah . marketing : and the design . project manager : well i think uh especially because of the microphone and the lcd screen also . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . i do n't know whether older people will use it , but project manager : very new thing . well fancy the old people will . marketing : so user interface : i would make it a two or something . marketing : a two ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it 's true , it 's a one . very fancy . user interface : huh ? alright , it 's a one . oh it 's a one . project manager : no , it 's a two . little bit strange we have to judge that ourselves , huh ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , i n used i wouldn i should use that one , but it does n't industrial designer : user interface : but it 's a one uh maybe uh marketing : okay , no it 's two ? true is a one . user interface : yeah . marketing : very true , is it very true or is n't that true ? project manager : well i 'd say two on a scale user interface : well they think it 's very true , but uh industrial designer : it 's very true , because we designed it to be very fancy , marketing : yeah , i think two . user interface : yeah , industrial designer : so user interface : but industrial designer : it 's very fancy , i think . user interface : we should perhaps industrial designer : have you ever seen a remote control like this ? project manager : no , okay well , that 's true . industrial designer : no , okay , user interface : that not . industrial designer : so so it 's fancy . marketing : that 's fancy enough . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , one two . marketing : then ? project manager : that does n't matter that much , so make it a one . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . let 's give it a two . is it innovative ? user interface : i think it is , marketing : enough . user interface : because it has an lcd screen , a mi microphone . industrial designer : and uh uh the scroll is rubber , user interface : it 's from rubber . marketing : we have for the search function . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so s eno enough to i think . marketing : the scroller a bit i think it 's it 's a one yeah . user interface : it 's a one i think . marketing : true . also huh uh-huh the buttons , are they easy to find ? that was a big requirement of the old people . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , because they 're right on your screen . so you can use the b the the arrows . they 're right on your screen , so i do n't know where you 'd search . industrial designer : with the ones marketing : are all the buttons easy to find ? not only this buttons , all the buttons . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : well , i think they are . the options are it uh little bit harder , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but if you touch the options then it 's uh industrial designer : take a harder look , yeah , sure . marketing : i think th it 's industrial designer : it 's easier than the regular uh remote control . marketing : easy t project manager : yeah , and you use these buttons the most , marketing : yeah , i think this is easy now . i think th i think the options buttons are not the the easiest way to to project manager : huh ? so industrial designer : yeah . user interface : no they 're not , but they 're they 're they are easy to find . marketing : to handle . true . industrial designer : yeah , they are a lot easier to find than uh th than on the regular remote controls marketing : i would rate it a industrial designer : where you have to uh find out what which sign or icon means on uh every button . marketing : yeah , okay , that 's true , that 's true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so you have t you have to use the the the manual to understand most project manager : which marketing : but that 's that 's vantage of lcd screen , you can have text . project manager : so which number are we going to fill in ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i would say yeah . industrial designer : i think it 's uh it 's a two , at least . user interface : yeah . yeah , project manager : a two , yeah ? user interface : you can make it a two . project manager : two , three and industrial designer : it 's not perfect , but marketing : yeah . project manager : what do you think ? marketing : i think it 's a three . industrial designer : a three ? project manager : okay , so we have two , two , three . industrial designer : and why is that ? marketing : i personally think , because i d i do n't think i maybe it 's easy to use , it has to be easy to find right away . i i think if you have the button at the right , i do n't think you can find the option button that easy . user interface : yeah , but you do n't have t have to use the button on the right . you can touch it . marketing : you can touch it . user interface : yeah . you you can touch options . industrial designer : it said bo both the options . marketing : yeah , okay , but you have y then you have here s written option on here , the teletext button , user interface : yeah . marketing : right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay , then okay , good . then i think also two , yeah . user interface : you can touch options project manager : a two , okay , user interface : and it 's comes out . project manager : because we have to industrial designer : a two , a two . user interface : the uh the um below . project manager : it 's the box below it , industrial designer : uh the next question the next question . oh my god . marketing : user interface : project manager : otherwise we have two results in one question . user interface : it 's different . industrial designer : project manager : okay , next question . marketing : it 's easy to use , as well for younger as elderl elderly people . user interface : for young people i think it 's easy to use . marketing : young means sixteen to forty years . industrial designer : yeah , i was uh user interface : yeah . marketing : and elderly from forty eight to their death . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i think it 's industrial designer : i think it 's the most useful uh remote control ever to be manufactured . user interface : in the entire mankind . project manager : okay , you 're very enthusiastic about your own design , marketing : also if you 're sixty years old industrial designer : yeah , but because it has the regular uh controls , li uh as you can see in the screen now , and uh you do n't have all the other options uh always uh on your screen . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's t i think it 's really easy to use . you want these options to project manager : as well for the for the older people ? industrial designer : uh sure . marketing : yeah , as well as your if you 're fif sixty years old , you 're holding one of those things in your hand user interface : yeah , but uh yeah , but they they do n't want the uh extra options , right ? marketing : no , but we 're going to th make this f for a all kind of people , user interface : so project manager : and would it be easy for them to use the speech recognition ? user interface : yeah , okay , marketing : so it it it has to be user interface : but so they could uh i think it is . if they read a manual . project manager : because that might marketing : if you read the manual , user interface : yeah , alright . industrial designer : perhaps that is one of the most uh marketing : always . project manager : m maybe that 's the most user friendly and easy to use . user interface : because it it 's not it 's not it 's it 's not uh difficult . industrial designer : uh because a lot of user interface : you say you say uh record to to the to the speech recognition , industrial designer : channel one , channel four , yeah . user interface : then you say the question and the answer . and that 's everything it does , the speech recognition . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , well maybe that would make it even more easy to use for them . user interface : yeah . i think it would make it uh industrial designer : yeah , i think it does . marketing : so industrial designer : because all the people who ca n't uh user interface : i would make it two . marketing : also two ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh a two . sure , two . marketing : not a seven for this ? user interface : three ? project manager : i 'd say three . marketing : i would also say three . industrial designer : project manager : okay , so we have three three two two user interface : oh . you ? project manager : or so what are we going to do ? user interface : well two and a half . project manager : okay , a three , i see . uh user interface : three ? no . industrial designer : give me more . marketing : project manager : another question . marketing : remotes overwhelmed with buttons . no , that that 's that 's user interface : but um i mean , marketing : yeah . user interface : that 's definitely one . marketing : tha that 's a one , i think , that 's definitely a one . industrial designer : that 's definitely our uh user interface : oh nee , oh seven is it ? it is . yeah , uh marketing : oh yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah , user interface : the remote score . industrial designer : a false , yeah . project manager : but i think you should make it one scale with with one being good and seven being bad , marketing : yeah , i think is n't , this has to be something like is n't overwhelmed . project manager : because otherwise we ca n't uh calculate anything from the results , user interface : it 's not overwhelmed . yeah . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah , indeed . marketing : true . project manager : okay , a one , because we designed for that , huh ? marketing : remote control has uh colours that different that meet different target groups . industrial designer : user interface : 'cause we make them in different colours , project manager : yeah . user interface : so that they uh industrial designer : yeah , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : is optional . project manager : yeah , and i though w we had about single colours , marketing : that 's true . project manager : but you can also make uh a wood colour , not just one single colour but a wood-like thing , user interface : yeah . that it that it looks like wood , like something , yeah . project manager : ca n't you ? marketing : also with rubber ? user interface : uh i think you can . project manager : whether it looks like wood , it is n't w it is n't wood marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : but user interface : it it feels like rubber , project manager : you can make a print on rubber , user interface : but project manager : ca n't you ? yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so that 's a one then , user interface : well but then when you scratch it it does come off . marketing : yeah ? project manager : huh ? marketing : that 's a one ? user interface : so that 's a bit industrial designer : yeah , it is it is harder to marketing : okay . project manager : do you have many questions ? marketing : uh i have industrial designer : to like project manager : oh , okay well marketing : user interface : oh we have time . industrial designer : geez . project manager : yeah , but we have we also we have to get to the money . industrial designer : we 're getting paid . we 're getting paid . marketing : the material used is spongy , user interface : what ? marketing : that that 's uh that 's a one , that 's m rubber . project manager : what spongy . user interface : yeah , yeah , it 's very spongy . marketing : yeah , i th think it 's not the most spongy thing . user interface : but not it 's not very spongy , because it 's hard rubber . i think it 's a three . industrial designer : yeah , it 's a three , project manager : uh-huh , yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because you want to make it uh rather flexible but not too flexible , user interface : hard but yeah . you can break it . industrial designer : because it has a lcd screen . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : hard to lose , marketing : remote control is hard to lose . industrial designer : yeah it sh and it 's easy to find . user interface : y yeah , you could you could call it . marketing : y you ca n't you ca n't lose it if you 're sixty years old . if first time see the thing you didn did n't adjust uh set the microphone , and then you lose it , then you have lost it . user interface : yeah , y you can lose it , but it is n't hard to lose . marketing : it is n't hard , no . i think i think this is a two , personally . user interface : two . that it 's hard to lose ? yeah , it it is there 's the project manager : yeah , industrial designer : is n't hard to lose . project manager : so is n't hard to lose you . user interface : it 's a six , you think ? industrial designer : is n't hard to lose , yeah . marketing : is n't hard to lose . user interface : so it 's a two . yeah , you can lose it , so i do n't marketing : yeah . you ca n't lose it . user interface : you can make it a three i it does have an a built in function . marketing : or if you 're you 're sixty years old , your demands project manager : yeah , but a har a hard to lose is good . so it should this question should be hard to lose . it 's difficult to lose it . user interface : nee . hard to lose . oh right . industrial designer : yeah , this this is hard to lose . project manager : user interface : it is hard to lose . yeah , so then this is it is almost true , industrial designer : this project manager : a two . marketing : i think yeah , i think also . user interface : so a two . project manager : a two . industrial designer : two , yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : industrial designer : and most all because of the option to whoa . user interface : ooh . project manager : yeah , it 's okay . that happens above also . but maybe when you scroll away and back it will be normal , marketing : yeah ? oh , okay . project manager : but yep . oh , it is n't , user interface : oh well , project manager : well okay . user interface : it does n't . industrial designer : put the cor cursor on the . project manager : remember . marketing : okay okay okay . industrial designer : click . marketing : remote control mainly be sold to younger people . user interface : i think it will , industrial designer : true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : true . marketing : yeah ? true ? very true ? user interface : uh well industrial designer : uh yeah . uh project manager : there . user interface : i a marketing : no , i do n't think very true because the colours . user interface : a two . marketing : we have the colours . um we have the buttons is are n't that that much . industrial designer : materials , yeah . marketing : nah , the material is n't that user interface : it 's it 's much more younger . industrial designer : uh okay . so ma uh make it make it a two . marketing : so i don i think i think it 's a three . project manager : well i think it 's it 's uh a lower number , so better because w we designed it for young people especially , user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , project manager : did n't we ? user interface : i think it 's a two marketing : but i uh user interface : but marketing : okay , okay . project manager : what do you think ? marketing : i think because project manager : questions ? industrial designer : a two ? i think it 's two . i think it 's two too , two too too . project manager : two . uh-huh . marketing : yeah ? user interface : two two two . let 's make everything a two . marketing : in the features ? project manager : dissatisfy younger people . um user interface : younger people . it has industrial designer : well perhaps not . user interface : what did marketing : because younger peoples are cr critical and they wanted a lot of features on this thing . user interface : yeah . well that it does n't . industrial designer : well , n not exactly but uh uh if it had some games on it or something like that , user interface : yeah bu but industrial designer : but it 's for a remote control i think it i it would satisfy those needs . user interface : i think they like the speech . you could call to your uh industrial designer : yeah , the speech possibility , user interface : yeah , and the screen , industrial designer : the colours . marketing : lcd screen and scroll . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : scroll options , yeah . marketing : i i think they 'll be quite met with their expectations . project manager : yeah , but those are more fancy functions , not not really many features or something . user interface : right , that that that project manager : it has relatively few features , user interface : those are features . marketing : it 's three features , basically , project manager : with marketing : the lcd touch screen is feature . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : the microphone is a feature . user interface : are n't the features the microphone 's feature and that you can change the channel 's feature , and that you can change the volume is feature , project manager : yeah . user interface : and that you can change the options of the remote , uh uh something like that . yeah . project manager : ours had other features with marketing : yeah , okay . i think yeah , and then you have the audio settings , channel setting , video settings . industrial designer : the easy volume up button . user interface : those are features . industrial designer : remote younger people usually use the remote control to put on the volume . turn uh turn up the volume . marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : enough features ? marketing : so i 've chos i shou i think it 's it 's it 's a one . personally , yeah . i think once you 've 'cause you have the channel features b uh you have the uh screen features , audio features , the you have all buttons on it which you 'd like , microphone extra , lcd screen extra , scroll thing extra . project manager : okay , you think one , user interface : yeah . project manager : what do you think ? user interface : i think two or three . project manager : you . three , yeah . i 'd say three , so two it is then user interface : yeah . yeah uh a two a two . just another two . marketing : make it make it a two . project manager : or industrial designer : one two three . marketing : or make it uh a fucking two . user interface : we like two . industrial designer : right . marketing : you can see the remote control is r_ and r_ . user interface : yeah , there 's r_ and r_ in front . project manager : yeah . marketing : has user interface : uh it 's not the colour , so maybe you should make two , but it has r_ and r_ . marketing : oh yeah , do did have nah y you have the black one . user interface : yeah . marketing : and we 'll probably make also a yellow one . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , project manager : yeah , user interface : but not r_ and r_ yellow i think . project manager : maybe maybe two . well m th but the logo is on on the front , industrial designer : okay , true , yeah . marketing : maybe two . project manager : so a two , yeah , user interface : one d on i it 's the colours and the marketing : x_ marks spot . project manager : that 's marketing : and the menu is avail that is available is easy to use . user interface : i think it is , but i do n't know what you think . industrial designer : i think it 's easier to use than a regular remote control , because when you push on the options menu , you get the the the various options uh entirely explained . entirely explained . marketing : yeah , tha that 's so true . mm-hmm . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : instead of uh just finding out what an icon means on a button . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , uh user interface : and you can navigate easier , because wi with the you have to push the the the arrows and with a normal tv uh remote . industrial designer : yeah , you can navigate . uh . marketing : i think that wou that would be quite hard to learn to use it . industrial designer : you 're not satisfied , okay . let 's start over again then . marketing : no , i 'm not not convinc . user interface : yeah . let 's make a different remote . well industrial designer : marketing : let 's go th for inhalation of air ] user interface : menu . industrial designer : marketing : i think it would be a t yeah , two . user interface : a two ? industrial designer : a two . marketing : now lower . project manager : oh , well that 's that 's pretty good , user interface : we only have twos . industrial designer : oh yeah , i think so . yeah . user interface : uh just twos . one three and a few ones . industrial designer : and three . marketing : so okay , we have one three , a one , that that have to got up . user interface : two threes . marketing : two two two two two . user interface : we m mostly have twos , so it 's pretty good . marketing : so two , yeah . the average is a two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the average . marketing : that is quite good user interface : yeah . i think so too . industrial designer : yeah , i think so . marketing : in my opinion . that user interface : we can be happy . industrial designer : save . user interface : yeah . what is it ? it 's like a bug or something . industrial designer : it 's a fly . user interface : a fly , yeah . a f butterfly . yeah . that 's it . marketing : okay . project manager : that was your evaluation uh show , okay , so we do n't have to calculate anything because of um these results . user interface : sure . marketing : no , it 's two . the average is two . project manager : okay , good . user interface : it 's good . yeah . project manager : um let 's see oh , it is n't asked to save but it did already industrial designer : yeah . exactly . marketing : yeah , i uh uh i uh saved it . project manager : and this everything okay . well , the next part uh might be a little bit difficult to do in a group , but i am willing to try it . marketing : project manager : because we are going to look at the finance and i have a nice excel sheet to do that . user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : redesign . no . project manager : and um i 'm not sure if i put it in the project folder . industrial designer : project manager : look on that . um and we 're going to calculate the production costs , and if they are uh under or at twelve euro fifty , user interface : yeah . project manager : we 're good , and if they 're not we 're going to uh re-design , user interface : yeah . project manager : but we have to do that uh very very quick i think , user interface : so we 're going to erase features or something . project manager : yes . um i do n't know if i user interface : do you have the cost project manager : put the excel sheet in the user interface : or uh let 's hope . project manager : n not in the industrial designer : marketing : f fifty five euros . project manager : folder . i think it 's user interface : we 're going to be here at eight o'clock . project manager : i think it 's still in my own documents folder . industrial designer : user interface : we 're goin still going to be here at eight o'clock . industrial designer : project manager : oh shit . user interface : i doubt it . perhaps we 've got features that do n't exist in the excel sheet . marketing : yeah mm yeah , maybe . project manager : so user interface : no , marketing : the microphone . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it was in my uh my information , so uh industrial designer : it i it was n't too much . marketing : yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : maybe you 're going scrap scrap it . industrial designer : as well as the lcd screen . whoa . project manager : okay , well this is it . user interface : well , if it does n't work project manager : um maybe i could ask one of you to uh fill it in , so that i can also uh take minutes , user interface : i want to fill it in , but uh project manager : and uh maybe the other can uh use that thing to count uh numerous functions . marketing : no prob . ah . user interface : but you should uh direct marketing : count it ? li like write it be project manager : well we have to count some things and we have to think about some things . but you have to fill in this column , huh ? industrial designer : count it . you got excel to count . user interface : the number of project manager : no , uh count uh number of functions , because for every button you have to pay industrial designer : oh okay . project manager : and there are different screen shots , so or different different screens , industrial designer : well i dra marketing : ah , okay , cool . industrial designer : uh danny , danny , i 'll do that , marketing : huh ? yeah ? oh , yea yeah , you design it . um industrial designer : because i draw the uh project manager : so user interface : we 've got a battery , one or t two batteries , or not ? nee one battery , with two small batteries . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , but it 's it 's more about the energy source , huh ? do you use a hand dynamo , a battery , kinetic or solar cells ? user interface : yeah . i would do a battery we do . right ? marketing : solar cell . no project manager : we 'll wait . user interface : a battery . one battery , industrial designer : no , no solar cell , no no no no . marketing : it took a battery ? user interface : right ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : no hand dynamo . marketing : yeah . user interface : electronics , simple chip industrial designer : hand marketing : we have user interface : advanced chip , right ? marketing : no , we have sample speaker . industrial designer : on advanced chip . marketing : but b al but we also have sample speaker , do user interface : yeah , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : so this one and this one . uh we ha we have um single marketing : oh , we already on nine . user interface : what ? are we ? oh yay . marketing : we have double curved . user interface : the single . industrial designer : single nee single curved . double curved was uh uh see uh ju three dimensional . marketing : single . industrial designer : but it is n't three dimensional , user interface : oh the the industrial designer : it is n't curved in a l marketing : this one is user interface : it 's not going to work uh people . we have rubber . marketing : this one is curved like this , project manager : i 'll just fill it in . marketing : right . it 's curved like this . industrial designer : no no no , project manager : um rubber indeed ? industrial designer : single curved is like this . uh that 's the only curve you made , marketing : yeah , bu what industrial designer : not th uh curved like that . that 's uh marketing : oh , but we have curves like it and it . user interface : thirteen ? marketing : there are two curves , right ? oh , okay i understand , i understand . user interface : with a scroll wheel , right ? is he integrated ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : rubber . user interface : no , eh ? i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : push button . no , we do n't have push button . industrial designer : we got ta integrate scroll wheel and push button , because when you push it and you w it wo n't just pu uh makes possible to s user interface : oh yeah , right , we want it to it 's not it 's not no . industrial designer : not going to work ? marketing : lcd display . industrial designer : okay . okay um user interface : fifteen , oh , too bad . oh but with special colour we have . a special form , right ? industrial designer : but now button supplements . we do n't got the button supplements . user interface : oh , we do n't have any buttons , so marketing : eighteen and a half , user interface : yeah , we need to uh marketing : damn . industrial designer : damn . marketing : we have to lower it with six points . user interface : no , uh we have fifteen and industrial designer : okay . marketing : twelve and half . user interface : oh , right . industrial designer : user interface : we could lose the curve . marketing : we could use user interface : yeah , i would lose the curve . industrial designer : we could lose the scroll wheel . you could make it just a regular scroll wheel . user interface : but you ca n't push it , so you have to tap . industrial designer : yeah , if you ca n't push it you have to tap the the options window uh button here and then uh scroll down with the d with uh with uh the button . user interface : yeah , alright . project manager : yeah , i think that will be our best bet . user interface : so normal scroll wheel ? industrial designer : normal scroll wheel . user interface : and i think we should lose the curve . marketing : i think we should scrap the sample speaker . industrial designer : lose marketing : it 's four pri it four units . user interface : yeah , but if you would i it is a new feature , it it 's something special . industrial designer : okay , so we do n't exactly need the single we do n't need a curve . marketing : but w d wha user interface : no , the curve does n't really industrial designer : 's possible to lose curve . marketing : curved then it will be square . user interface : no , then it will wo n't uh stand up from the table . then it would just industrial designer : okay . marketing : was that does that mean to it , single curve ? industrial designer : yeah , that 's meant with scr uh with s curve . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the curve is uh in a dimension . marketing : okay . industrial designer : if you make it a flat one , s n it 's no curve , you got no curves . user interface : so we would lose this one ? industrial designer : yeah , okay . marketing : yeah , but tha that that only is one . user interface : yeah , we could s yeah , a bit . industrial designer : no , two . marketing : no , one . user interface : sixteen point three . industrial designer : oh , okay , indeed . marketing : so we do n't user interface : so we still marketing : yeah , we also have to industrial designer : is it possible to make user interface : could could we do it on a regular chip on print or something ? marketing : no , otherwise we do n't have an lcd screen . user interface : no ? ma y you just ca n't do that , or uh project manager : and what did you change ? you changed the uh scroll wheel user interface : we changed th project manager : and user interface : yeah , and the single curved to uncurved . marketing : single curved . project manager : oh , but it 's just one marketing : flat . yeah , so that does does n't does n't that mu i think project manager : point , so maybe you should should uh marketing : scrap sample speaker ? project manager : yeah , you should you should drop the speech recognition . industrial designer : the sample speaker is two d wait , f s four points . marketing : that that 's uh user interface : yeah , but it 's t marketing : yes , four points . project manager : and then you can keep the curve . user interface : yeah , but it is uh it it is a new feature , project manager : or ca n't you ? user interface : it is something special . industrial designer : yeah , uh becau uh when you lose the marketing : yeah , but what what else what else uh do you want to scrap ? user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : marketing : f you have to we have to scrap four points . user interface : yeah , that 's difficult . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or make it on a hand dynamo , but i do n't think that will work . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : ma make it with wood instead of rubber ? industrial designer : no , that 's no . make it w uh when you made it uh uh uh a remote control of wood ? user interface : we could make it titanium instead of rubber . industrial designer : you do n't make a remote control of ah . marketing : yeah , project manager : yeah , marketing : it it i project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah , it also uh it also takes one point less . project manager : yeah , but uh a wooden remote control only helps for uh old people we discussed , user interface : oh . oh can i ask something ? what is special colour ? marketing : yeah . user interface : is that the wood uh wood uh marketing : i think it is . user interface : this , we have to have that one too ? industrial designer : it is n't . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : what ? marketing : yeah . project manager : but it 's only a half . but i think the only option is to drop the uh sample speaker . marketing : yeah . sample speaker . industrial designer : to knock the sample speaker , yeah . and sample sensor . user interface : th then we still have too much marketing : yeah , okay , user interface : if we use the uh industrial designer : but m yeah , course , marketing : three . point three . industrial designer : but user interface : yeah , we we scrap that one ? industrial designer : what we 'll have . let 's make it thirteen or fourteen . user interface : see , a po marketing : point twelve . user interface : three . we need point three . marketing : that 's a scroll wheel . user interface : uh it 's a colour . do n't make it wood . industrial designer : a colour . marketing : yeah , but a wood user interface : make it uh marketing : we can make it brown , dark brown , not wood . user interface : yeah , but it 's it 's special colour , is it a all kind of colours ? industrial designer : yeah , special colours , fruity colours . user interface : it 's also green or uh marketing : is it also industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no that that 's just normal colour fruit colours . user interface : yeah , but it 's a special colour than just rubber colour . marketing : normal colours , yellow user interface : you have to add something to the rubber to make it green . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you do n't say here 's green rubber . industrial designer : they do n't sell green rubber plants . marketing : yeah , but then i d i do n't think we can ever make to a twelve and half . industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah , you can , you should you have to lose marketing : but then we have to scrap lcd display , we have to scrap uh user interface : no , it is the scroll wheel , i guess . industrial designer : no no no . marketing : s advanced chip . no then we have to scrap everything we got because how many colours we gon na make ? industrial designer : if we lose the scroll wheel and make it totally uh depending uh dependent on uh the touch screen marketing : five ? then we have two . user interface : a push , yeah . marketing : touch . industrial designer : then it 's possible to make . and then you can and then you can add to the colours . marketing : then we can make add two colours on it . yeah , two colours it . industrial designer : special c user interface : switch colours . industrial designer : okay , if you lose uh if you lose the user interface : it was such a great idea . industrial designer : you lose this one , you got eleven point five marketing : they can add two colours . industrial designer : and you make i and then you can make uh the spec single curve , for example . marketing : but the colours . um how ma uh the colours like l she told , is that all the colours we add or industrial designer : how d uh uh how many colours ? user interface : what do you mean ? industrial designer : special colours , all the colours you want , because you want to make p marketing : yeah , but we we we are we have yellow , red , uh black , titanium . industrial designer : yeah , but uh when you use more than one colour , it 's a special colour . marketing : ah okay . user interface : but i think when you use the colour that 's not originally the rubber then you use special colour , industrial designer : i suppose . user interface : 'cause you have to add it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , but the rubbers alls original black . user interface : yeah , so you always lose the special colour . you co you could make it always black , like normal remote . marketing : yeah b yeah , but we 're gon na make it yellow uh red , and then you add you have two special colours on top of the one we have now . industrial designer : nee we we also want to make ano another colour . user interface : oh right , yeah . yeah , we should u marketing : yeah , but m user interface : yeah . we have to make this like four or five or something . marketing : yeah , user interface : that 's what it means . marketing : because we have more colours than only black . project manager : yeah , but is n't it per remote that you pay ? user interface : yeah . marketing : i then i think i p i don i do n't think they me mean they 're special project manager : half ? user interface : oh right , yeah . is it per remote ? project manager : i think you pay half per remote . user interface : yeah . yeah , that 's right , project manager : so each remote with a special colour . user interface : and you one colour per remote . industrial designer : yeah , indeed , yeah . user interface : so then it is one . industrial designer : you do n't need four of those uh four of those special colours in one in one remote . marketing : yeah , okay okay , true . true , true . project manager : i hope . marketing : we have two points spare . project manager : so the battery , marketing : nee one point . project manager : we have um advanced chip on print . user interface : one . so it would be curved , single curve . industrial designer : project manager : because of thing user interface : or not ? project manager : yeah , well you can at least make it curved again . user interface : so y you just ca n't make a nice remote . industrial designer : yeah , single curve . project manager : because that was very important , user interface : it 's too bad for the speaker . project manager : huh ? so it 's curved , it 's still that so we we dropped the speech recognition together with the speaker . user interface : should we change that tha that that 's a one if not , marketing : mm yep . project manager : we dropped the scroll wheel . user interface : or not ? could you copy it ? project manager : and the rest is the same , user interface : and make it uh project manager : huh ? am i right ? marketing : y yea the scroll wheel is dropped . user interface : the entire uh industrial designer : uh . huh . user interface : perhaps you can then copy page or so . ooh . no . oh you you made the entire could you industrial designer : okay . undo , undo . user interface : oh industrial designer : undo . user interface : not well . industrial designer : so , 'kay . user interface : would you ? industrial designer : twenty minutes ? user interface : by the perhaps you can save this one , and then copy or something . add it copy page . select all . project manager : no , but you c yeah . user interface : alright , something went wrong . project manager : okay , but this this new remote we can afford . user interface : it does n't work . let 's forget . marketing : it should 've work . industrial designer : okay , so you had this list at start ? project manager : hmm ? no , i had n't . industrial designer : alright . when did you receive this list ? project manager : i just received it . industrial designer : ah okay . user interface : yeah . oh project manager : they do n't work so hard at the finance department . user interface : ignore that . well , so industrial designer : ah okay . i suppose this is a user interface : too bad . industrial designer : okay , so we lose the scroll wheel , user interface : yeah . the microphone . project manager : yeah , and that 's it . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and the microphone . user interface : a and we changed something , i guess , or not ? we oh no . industrial designer : okay . project manager : twelve euro fifty . um and did you try to make a new design , or what were you trying to do ? user interface : yeah , i tried to copy that one , but it did n't work . project manager : it did n't work . user interface : so we could fix it like tha that it 's like this . project manager : hmm . strange . user interface : you could select it all , but then you ca n't erase . industrial designer : strange . project manager : oh , you can arrange industrial designer : you can only re erase ? user interface : erase . when you saw th li uh earlier when we selected it , w i could n't erase anything . industrial designer : uh , no . project manager : hmm , ca n't you then just say copy ? industrial designer : bling . project manager : new page . paste . yes . select none . user interface : just tap somewhere . industrial designer : just up somewhere b uh besides it , marketing : just tap somewhere . industrial designer : right . project manager : okay , user interface : yeah . project manager : and now you can erase . user interface : i do n't think i can , but uh we can try . industrial designer : uh , we already try . project manager : well it should be possible . user interface : oh , yeah , project manager : oh no . user interface : no , ha-ha . project manager : well you can draw over it with white uh pen . user interface : yeah , we tried it earlier . it 's very much work . project manager : yeah . sorry . user interface : project manager : well but that 's also useful for the evaluation , because i think uh we have a prototype now marketing : evaluation drops . project manager : which we can afford and uh we only need to draw a little bit to get a good uh design . doodle . and i think we should then move on to the production evaluation because of the time . marketing : and erase the mic . user interface : yeah , goodbye mic . industrial designer : all i need is no mic . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : project manager : let 's see , we can save this now . user interface : oh , i already erased half of the line . industrial designer : bon chance project manager : and move back to here . user interface : too bad , oh . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : like this ? project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : still looks nice . project manager : and then all green . okay , well thank you . user interface : oh , that 's erase . marketing : looks like a ipod . project manager : oh , no . hey , but you can erase that . industrial designer : add user interface : yeah , that 's a bit weird . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh-oh . user interface : oh , now i 'm line . industrial designer : s difference between lines and text and the pen . user interface : yeah . project manager : right . marketing : oh . all i need is mic . project manager : and you ca n't erase this ? marketing : project manager : hmm , strange . okay , well uh user interface : it 's weird . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : just leave it at this and quickly save . marketing : station page . project manager : um and then we are going to the project or product evaluation . industrial designer : huh , looks fucking boring now . project manager : we just did our project evaluation . um well , i think i can sit for that since it 's almost my final slide . um what did you think about uh the process ? how satisfied are we ? industrial designer : deadlines were sometimes very short . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : bu but stressful . you think , no , my presentation is n't ready . industrial designer : but project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and stressful . marketing : i think we it should be b it would be better if we worked a little bit together . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : now we worked through each other , project manager : and you could ask things . user interface : yeah , you had information i did n't have marketing : something he said user interface : and then uh marketing : yeah , and you had information i also had , user interface : oh right . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so some some things i had in my presentation , they already told , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and for me it sometimes was a surprise who was going to present what , huh ? user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : and uh user interface : yeah . marketing : so yeah , that i do n't think that is the best way to work at for such project . project manager : yeah . so you would say uh communicate during our individual uh work . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , no , or maybe session of five minutes together or something , and then work separate . industrial designer : yeah , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but but why not work here together , for example ? user interface : yeah , you could industrial designer : why should we be separated from each other in those difference uh different rooms ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . well , probably to simulate the whole working uh process , user interface : i think so too . yeah , but then you can work together too industrial designer : yeah . project manager : huh , th you ca n't have a meeting uh for several weeks . user interface : when marketing : yeah m yeah , like she told . then you can work together too by mail or by , i dunno , chat , something , user interface : a chat would also be uh industrial designer : huh , oh right . marketing : but now we 're completely separated from each other . i do n't think that was the best way , but industrial designer : but the technology was uh fantastic . user interface : well , marketing : yeah , the technology 's okay . user interface : i i do n't really like the board , it does n't really work great . sometimes i think . industrial designer : work now ? marketing : yeah okay , but i don i do i think becau that 's because industrial designer : perhaps it is e user interface : it does work , but sometimes it does n't erase or it does n't uh industrial designer : yeah , perhaps it is easier to get one of those uh dig digital pens or so and to uh and lay it next to that keyboard over there . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so you can draw uh see it over th on the screen . marketing : yeah , like the f like a plotters or something , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . yep yep yep yep yep . project manager : so you do n't think the smartboard is is really useful user interface : but project manager : or industrial designer : it 's useful , but not m user interface : it is useful , marketing : yeah , it is useful , but user interface : but it does n't really work all the time . th the pen does n't industrial designer : because when you put this pen on the screen uh uh for exam and line is d being drawn at at two or three centimetres uh below . user interface : the line is a bit off . project manager : yeah , so it 's maybe a bit unnatural also . user interface : yeah , industrial designer : alright . user interface : you can point to where you want the line to be . but industrial designer : the project uh because of the deadlines you did n't had the time to uh have , you did n't have time to uh to make a very uh qualitati qualitative uh presentation . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so you used uh this uh the different powerpoint presentations uh in which you put your uh material in the oh . user interface : project manager : that was n't me . uh so um user interface : yeah . industrial designer : was n't me . project manager : the means , we discussed the smart board , and what about uh this digital pen ? user interface : i i i used it , marketing : i did n't use it at all . user interface : it it was you can use it , it 's quite handy i think . project manager : yeah , well industrial designer : but i did n't i uh project manager : i use it as a a normal pen and and and only you use it to uh get it on the computer , user interface : yeah , i used it to y to yeah , it did work pretty well . industrial designer : i used it too , but oh well . user interface : i do n't think why you would want to use it actually , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i did n't use . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : but it it does work . industrial designer : because it shou marketing : no yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : to make some designs , marketing : it is it is industrial designer : it is very easy . marketing : yeah , it is easy for to design something and then load it in your computer . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , and then you can show it to everybody . industrial designer : but to write it th yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : it does n't really write normally . marketing : yeah . it 's b bi little bit too big to write . user interface : it 's a bit industrial designer : yeah , it 's too big , it 's too fat . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : fat document , those . industrial designer : project manager : okay , um and what about the teamwork ? user interface : i think it was great , marketing : team work was okay . project manager : yeah , well i think so too . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we marketing : only thing that we worked through , past each other . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : right . project manager : but that was it was our assignment , marketing : with some things that was only problem , user interface : yeah , but it was because we did n't uh marketing : but user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah yeah yeah , project manager : okay , marketing : but furthermore better . project manager : and maybe i should walk out of the room when you discuss uh this point , the leadership . user interface : marketing : that 's user interface : i thought it was good , but uh yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , no prob . ah . project manager : yeah well , okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : not too much , not too too too too . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : and creativity ? well , when we look at this i 'd say we have been creative , user interface : industrial designer : project manager : huh ? but user interface : well . industrial designer : yeah , or the room for project manager : there was room for industrial designer : it was the idea to be creative , so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you got some standard ideas in your head and this what came out . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and you get get stuff from the from the computer , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but industrial designer : the information uh was sometimes uh a little bit too late marketing : little bit uh lo yeah . too late user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or marketing : it it it took a lot of time before you got your ema user interface : you just sit there for ten minutes . yeah , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : where is that email ? marketing : i played i think seven times solitaire something . user interface : project manager : you did ? well , user interface : oh industrial designer : project manager : i did n't have time for that . user interface : did you ? is it on there ? is it on there ? i did n't find the did n't look but uh project manager : at some times i sometimes i received like like five emails at at one moment , industrial designer : was searching and searching . marketing : oh right , user interface : i did n't look , marketing : it is there . user interface : but project manager : and then marketing : no , i i never got that . project manager : marketing : i always user interface : i got like one email after ten minutes or something . project manager : i even got spam . or something like that . marketing : n yeah . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : that 's what we said . marketing : so does this i think lik oh and information was a bit low i think , sometimes , user interface : and it not a lot uh marketing : in in in in the beginning i did n't understand what what to do . user interface : no , the first one . industrial designer : no , w i did n't know user interface : i did n't know uh marketing : yeah , like i with with the remote and i never new we have t we had to uh yeah made a made a rec a remote control . industrial designer : make a r yeah . user interface : and i did n't know what to do for the first ten minutes before we got here , marketing : yeah , so user interface : so i went , right . industrial designer : yeah . no stepping on the table and then looking at the internet page . user interface : yeah . project manager : and i was working and working and work user interface : just looking at the screen and uh industrial designer : no . project manager : okay , well um marketing : so , yeah . project manager : but after all we can say uh we are satisfied , but it it could 've been uh better . marketing : yeah . project manager : when we get uh when we have we would have gotten uh more information . user interface : yeah , an industrial designer : yeah , marketing : mm-hmm . faster . industrial designer : more information about the costs . user interface : yeah , that will be handy . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : first of all i did n't think uh that we were able to make an lcd screen uh first point , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but uh it was possible uh uh , yeah . marketing : yeah , it only costs four units . uh yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yea uh so tha actually you could make an lcd screen but no mic , or it could make mic but no lcd screen , when you look at that . project manager : yeah , that was a bit mean to put it in the end . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : and uh what were the other points to to improve this whole process ? marketing : user interface : uh , i dunno . marketing : um yeah . user interface : think that 's about it . marketing : nothing . i think we got it already . user interface : heavier um less heavy laptops . project manager : yeah , they 're pretty heavy . industrial designer : uh . faster laptop . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh . they were they were just fine . user interface : but that 's not really uh marketing : and furthermore the the the network was okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : everything you loaded was also user interface : yeah , everything worked . marketing : av available there . industrial designer : right . project manager : and so more time uh w might have improved the the quality of work , marketing : so project manager : is what you say . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . yeah , but that it 's now half past four half past three , so user interface : yeah , but it 's just the the off hours between that you will work alone . marketing : yeah , okay . yeah , okay . user interface : then it pops up pop up screen came . five minutes in the meeting . marketing : mm-hm . mm . user interface : no . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , so more time during the individual work phases . um okay well uh i just got my warning for the last five minutes , so i 'll move on to i guess my last slide , user interface : you did ? well marketing : project manager : yes , which is the closing . well uh , we managed , but we did it very quickly . i do n't know if that 's the best way to when it is n't is it when it is too expensive to quickly re-arrange it and say , okay , this is it , user interface : oh , right . project manager : but we had to do it , user interface : well project manager : huh , because we have to have a design , and that is within the budget . and we evaluated . maybe we should re-evaluate uh the product , but we did that before , and we also evaluated the project . and i think uh everybody 's uh very happy . at least i am , with the results , user interface : project manager : so uh celebration , well , for the three of you , user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : because uh i have to write the final report now . user interface : champagne . yeah . marketing : project manager : but uh well , thank you very much for your co-operation , marketing : project manager : and i had a very nice day so far . industrial designer : yeah , sure . marketing : no prob . industrial designer : oh thank you . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . user interface : do we get another email ? industrial designer : bling . you 're fired . project manager : um marketing : i think you do . user interface : i i think we have to fill in a questionnaire again , project manager : yeah i have t user interface : but project manager : i think we also have to go to our own rooms again , but um well user interface : we do ? project manager : i at least . but maybe you can try uh to make a screen shot of this , so i can try to include it in the final report . user interface : yeah . uh th that that one ? industrial designer : you can not project manager : yeah , maybe . user interface : you can just industrial designer : you can save it . project manager : wants to , but at least this one . user interface : yeah , but it 's it is n't a picture or , well , is it ? project manager : i know , we should remove this , industrial designer : you s uh file save as the j_ peg j_ peg . project manager : but it wo n't h okay . and uh please put it in the project folder then , huh . marketing : can you find it as a j_ peg ? industrial designer : no . user interface : is n't possible . but you can make a screen shot , i think . project manager : okay , well i uh i hereby officially close the meeting and uh i hope to see you uh soon . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : in uh industrial designer : in about five minutes . user interface : uh oh , project manager : well , user interface : export . project manager : i think we 'll be a bit a bit longer , but okay . well , happy celebration , huh ? industrial designer : oh thank you . user interface : images . industrial designer : whoo-hoo . let 's let 's have party . marketing : celebra user interface : how big do you want the images ? marketing : or should n't i ? industrial designer : let 's have some fun . project manager : how big ? uh user interface : yeah . project manager : not too big . user interface : this one ? project manager : whatever you think is good . marketing : six hundred . no , i yeah . industrial designer : that uh is one thousand twenty four . marketing : i think eight hundred six hundred is better . project manager : user interface : this one ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : if it browse . marketing : nah , name . user interface : um industrial designer : desktop . user interface : well it is n't on the desktop . industrial designer : i do not know . user interface : you can only save it in my documents . project manager : marketing : oh my god . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : user interface : oh , alright . yeah . industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : yeah . three . marketing : ten . user interface : can we stay here ? industrial designer : marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah , alright . industrial designer : okay . user interface : why ca n't we stay here ? industrial designer : alright . marketing : user interface : yeah . marketing : celebration time , come on . user interface : industrial designer : oh . user interface : marketing : peace out nigger . entree </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on evaluation criteria of remote control . </s> marketing : evaluation . 'kay , my task was this time to put up a questionnaire by which we can evaluate the design of the remote control by the questions we requirements from the of the users . my name , my job , okay . industrial designer : my name , my job . user interface : marketing : the methods . questionnaire with seven point scale from one to seven , from true to false , user interface : right . marketing : like question , is remote big enough , we can say it 's true or it 's false by steps . one means absolutely not true , seven means true . user interface : yeah . marketing : the three important things of refa are uh from th of this year is are , industrial designer : sorry , user interface : industrial designer : you used the powerpoint marketing : is the remote control fancy enough , user interface : yeah . marketing : is it in innovative enough , and is it easy enough to use . and then evaluation itself . uh . user interface : industrial designer : what ? bling . marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : first question . is the design fancy enough ? user interface : well marketing : project manager , what do you think ? project manager : well it 's looks fancy , especially with the green colour . and the the curves which we decided , user interface : yeah . marketing : but does it yeah . project manager : only what happened to the single curve we spoke about last meeting ? user interface : it uh oh it 's in the background . oh . industrial designer : now uh the single curved idea was uh yeah , okay , you ge um user interface : y you should make uh a sideways uh view . industrial designer : yeah . the sideways view , uh that that that ma user interface : it will be , i guess . oh , we can industrial designer : ho not that pen . not that pen . marketing : project manager : well user interface : g i would smart board . project manager : it might work one time , huh . industrial designer : suppose so . user interface : uh can i draw here or uh marketing : think . industrial designer : ah . oh my god , marketing : yeah , yeah , you can . user interface : so it would be uh something like this from the side , but with a bit of uh curve here , industrial designer : it works . user interface : right ? industrial designer : yeah , that 's the single curve indeed . user interface : yeah . so if you v flip it like this . project manager : okay . user interface : here 's yeah . industrial designer : that 's not very i it 's also uh very handy if you make a side curve way to make the the remote control very thin at the bottom uh at a bottom at a bottom . uh make it uh rather thick on the top , because uh on the top it has uh the screen , which takes uh in some uh space , and the batteries can be located over there , user interface : yeah . so you just make the back of this part a bit bigger , industrial designer : so uh user interface : so that it lays a bit o industrial designer : yeah . marketing : is n't going to be a little bit heavy at the top ? user interface : yeah , that 's a bit of problem maybe . marketing : with two batteries , the whole print plate and t and top , and if you 're holding it quite a lot i think user interface : yeah . i think yeah , the battery should be in here , because it 's just nothing , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so if you could marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay , indeed . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , but we have to rate uh these things now ? user interface : 'cause otherwise i think i marketing : yeah , we have to rate . project manager : okay . marketing : is it fancy enough ? true is one , false is seven . so fancy enough means , does it comes to the younger people and the elder people . user interface : i think it does . industrial designer : i think so . user interface : i if you do n't make it green , then the elder people wo n't wo n't like it . industrial designer : it 's pretty fancy . marketing : i think yeah , i have to agree , all the colour colours don don does n't matter that m that much now , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you get th project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's only design . user interface : i think it does . project manager : yeah . marketing : and the design . project manager : well i think uh especially because of the microphone and the lcd screen also . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . i do n't know whether older people will use it , but project manager : very new thing . well fancy the old people will . marketing : so user interface : i would make it a two or something . marketing : a two ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it 's true , it 's a one . very fancy . user interface : huh ? alright , it 's a one . oh it 's a one . project manager : no , it 's a two . little bit strange we have to judge that ourselves , huh ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , i n used i wouldn i should use that one , but it does n't industrial designer : user interface : but it 's a one uh maybe uh marketing : okay , no it 's two ? true is a one . user interface : yeah . marketing : very true , is it very true or is n't that true ? project manager : well i 'd say two on a scale user interface : well they think it 's very true , but uh industrial designer : it 's very true , because we designed it to be very fancy , marketing : yeah , i think two . user interface : yeah , industrial designer : so user interface : but industrial designer : it 's very fancy , i think . user interface : we should perhaps industrial designer : have you ever seen a remote control like this ? project manager : no , okay well , that 's true . industrial designer : no , okay , user interface : that not . industrial designer : so so it 's fancy . marketing : that 's fancy enough . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , one two . marketing : then ? project manager : that does n't matter that much , so make it a one . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . let 's give it a two . is it innovative ? user interface : i think it is , marketing : enough . user interface : because it has an lcd screen , a mi microphone . industrial designer : and uh uh the scroll is rubber , user interface : it 's from rubber . marketing : we have for the search function . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so s eno enough to i think . marketing : the scroller a bit i think it 's it 's a one yeah . user interface : it 's a one i think . marketing : true . also huh uh-huh the buttons , are they easy to find ? that was a big requirement of the old people . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , because they 're right on your screen . so you can use the b the the arrows . they 're right on your screen , so i do n't know where you 'd search . industrial designer : with the ones marketing : are all the buttons easy to find ? not only this buttons , all the buttons . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : well , i think they are . the options are it uh little bit harder , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but if you touch the options then it 's uh industrial designer : take a harder look , yeah , sure . marketing : i think th it 's industrial designer : it 's easier than the regular uh remote control . marketing : easy t project manager : yeah , and you use these buttons the most , marketing : yeah , i think this is easy now . i think th i think the options buttons are not the the easiest way to to project manager : huh ? so industrial designer : yeah . user interface : no they 're not , but they 're they 're they are easy to find . marketing : to handle . true . industrial designer : yeah , they are a lot easier to find than uh th than on the regular remote controls marketing : i would rate it a industrial designer : where you have to uh find out what which sign or icon means on uh every button . marketing : yeah , okay , that 's true , that 's true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so you have t you have to use the the the manual to understand most project manager : which marketing : but that 's that 's vantage of lcd screen , you can have text . project manager : so which number are we going to fill in ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i would say yeah . industrial designer : i think it 's uh it 's a two , at least . user interface : yeah . yeah , project manager : a two , yeah ? user interface : you can make it a two . project manager : two , three and industrial designer : it 's not perfect , but marketing : yeah . project manager : what do you think ? marketing : i think it 's a three . industrial designer : a three ? project manager : okay , so we have two , two , three . industrial designer : and why is that ? marketing : i personally think , because i d i do n't think i maybe it 's easy to use , it has to be easy to find right away . i i think if you have the button at the right , i do n't think you can find the option button that easy . user interface : yeah , but you do n't have t have to use the button on the right . you can touch it . marketing : you can touch it . user interface : yeah . you you can touch options . industrial designer : it said bo both the options . marketing : yeah , okay , but you have y then you have here s written option on here , the teletext button , user interface : yeah . marketing : right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay , then okay , good . then i think also two , yeah . user interface : you can touch options project manager : a two , okay , user interface : and it 's comes out . project manager : because we have to industrial designer : a two , a two . user interface : the uh the um below . project manager : it 's the box below it , industrial designer : uh the next question the next question . oh my god . marketing : user interface : project manager : otherwise we have two results in one question . user interface : it 's different . industrial designer : project manager : okay , next question . marketing : it 's easy to use , as well for younger as elderl elderly people . user interface : for young people i think it 's easy to use . marketing : young means sixteen to forty years . industrial designer : yeah , i was uh user interface : yeah . marketing : and elderly from forty eight to their death . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i think it 's industrial designer : i think it 's the most useful uh remote control ever to be manufactured . user interface : in the entire mankind . project manager : okay , you 're very enthusiastic about your own design , marketing : also if you 're sixty years old industrial designer : yeah , but because it has the regular uh controls , li uh as you can see in the screen now , and uh you do n't have all the other options uh always uh on your screen . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's t i think it 's really easy to use . you want these options to project manager : as well for the for the older people ? industrial designer : uh sure . marketing : yeah , as well as your if you 're fif sixty years old , you 're holding one of those things in your hand user interface : yeah , but uh yeah , but they they do n't want the uh extra options , right ? marketing : no , but we 're going to th make this f for a all kind of people , user interface : so project manager : and would it be easy for them to use the speech recognition ? user interface : yeah , okay , marketing : so it it it has to be user interface : but so they could uh i think it is . if they read a manual . project manager : because that might marketing : if you read the manual , user interface : yeah , alright . industrial designer : perhaps that is one of the most uh marketing : always . project manager : m maybe that 's the most user friendly and easy to use . user interface : because it it 's not it 's not it 's it 's not uh difficult . industrial designer : uh because a lot of user interface : you say you say uh record to to the to the speech recognition , industrial designer : channel one , channel four , yeah . user interface : then you say the question and the answer . and that 's everything it does , the speech recognition . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , well maybe that would make it even more easy to use for them . user interface : yeah . i think it would make it uh industrial designer : yeah , i think it does . marketing : so industrial designer : because all the people who ca n't uh user interface : i would make it two . marketing : also two ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh a two . sure , two . marketing : not a seven for this ? user interface : three ? project manager : i 'd say three . marketing : i would also say three . industrial designer : project manager : okay , so we have three three two two user interface : oh . you ? project manager : or so what are we going to do ? user interface : well two and a half . project manager : okay , a three , i see . uh user interface : three ? no . industrial designer : give me more . marketing : project manager : another question . marketing : remotes overwhelmed with buttons . no , that that 's that 's user interface : but um i mean , marketing : yeah . user interface : that 's definitely one . marketing : tha that 's a one , i think , that 's definitely a one . industrial designer : that 's definitely our uh user interface : oh nee , oh seven is it ? it is . yeah , uh marketing : oh yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah , user interface : the remote score . industrial designer : a false , yeah . project manager : but i think you should make it one scale with with one being good and seven being bad , marketing : yeah , i think is n't , this has to be something like is n't overwhelmed . project manager : because otherwise we ca n't uh calculate anything from the results , user interface : it 's not overwhelmed . yeah . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah , indeed . marketing : true . project manager : okay , a one , because we designed for that , huh ? marketing : remote control has uh colours that different that meet different target groups . industrial designer : user interface : 'cause we make them in different colours , project manager : yeah . user interface : so that they uh industrial designer : yeah , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : is optional . project manager : yeah , and i though w we had about single colours , marketing : that 's true . project manager : but you can also make uh a wood colour , not just one single colour but a wood-like thing , user interface : yeah . that it that it looks like wood , like something , yeah . project manager : ca n't you ? marketing : also with rubber ? user interface : uh i think you can . project manager : whether it looks like wood , it is n't w it is n't wood marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : but user interface : it it feels like rubber , project manager : you can make a print on rubber , user interface : but project manager : ca n't you ? yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so that 's a one then , user interface : well but then when you scratch it it does come off . marketing : yeah ? project manager : huh ? marketing : that 's a one ? user interface : so that 's a bit industrial designer : yeah , it is it is harder to marketing : okay . project manager : do you have many questions ? marketing : uh i have industrial designer : to like project manager : oh , okay well marketing : user interface : oh we have time . industrial designer : geez . project manager : yeah , but we have we also we have to get to the money . industrial designer : we 're getting paid . we 're getting paid . marketing : the material used is spongy , user interface : what ? marketing : that that 's uh that 's a one , that 's m rubber . project manager : what spongy . user interface : yeah , yeah , it 's very spongy . marketing : yeah , i th think it 's not the most spongy thing . user interface : but not it 's not very spongy , because it 's hard rubber . i think it 's a three . industrial designer : yeah , it 's a three , project manager : uh-huh , yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because you want to make it uh rather flexible but not too flexible , user interface : hard but yeah . you can break it . industrial designer : because it has a lcd screen . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : hard to lose , marketing : remote control is hard to lose . industrial designer : yeah it sh and it 's easy to find . user interface : y yeah , you could you could call it . marketing : y you ca n't you ca n't lose it if you 're sixty years old . if first time see the thing you didn did n't adjust uh set the microphone , and then you lose it , then you have lost it . user interface : yeah , y you can lose it , but it is n't hard to lose . marketing : it is n't hard , no . i think i think this is a two , personally . user interface : two . that it 's hard to lose ? yeah , it it is there 's the project manager : yeah , industrial designer : is n't hard to lose . project manager : so is n't hard to lose you . user interface : it 's a six , you think ? industrial designer : is n't hard to lose , yeah . marketing : is n't hard to lose . user interface : so it 's a two . yeah , you can lose it , so i do n't marketing : yeah . you ca n't lose it . user interface : you can make it a three i it does have an a built in function . marketing : or if you 're you 're sixty years old , your demands project manager : yeah , but a har a hard to lose is good . so it should this question should be hard to lose . it 's difficult to lose it . user interface : nee . hard to lose . oh right . industrial designer : yeah , this this is hard to lose . project manager : user interface : it is hard to lose . yeah , so then this is it is almost true , industrial designer : this project manager : a two . marketing : i think yeah , i think also . user interface : so a two . project manager : a two . industrial designer : two , yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : industrial designer : and most all because of the option to whoa . user interface : ooh . project manager : yeah , it 's okay . that happens above also . but maybe when you scroll away and back it will be normal , marketing : yeah ? oh , okay . project manager : but yep . oh , it is n't , user interface : oh well , project manager : well okay . user interface : it does n't . industrial designer : put the cor cursor on the . project manager : remember . marketing : okay okay okay . industrial designer : click . marketing : remote control mainly be sold to younger people . user interface : i think it will , industrial designer : true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : true . marketing : yeah ? true ? very true ? user interface : uh well industrial designer : uh yeah . uh project manager : there . user interface : i a marketing : no , i do n't think very true because the colours . user interface : a two . marketing : we have the colours . um we have the buttons is are n't that that much . industrial designer : materials , yeah . marketing : nah , the material is n't that user interface : it 's it 's much more younger . industrial designer : uh okay . so ma uh make it make it a two . marketing : so i don i think i think it 's a three . project manager : well i think it 's it 's uh a lower number , so better because w we designed it for young people especially , user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , project manager : did n't we ? user interface : i think it 's a two marketing : but i uh user interface : but marketing : okay , okay . project manager : what do you think ? marketing : i think because project manager : questions ? industrial designer : a two ? i think it 's two . i think it 's two too , two too too . project manager : two . uh-huh . marketing : yeah ? user interface : two two two . let 's make everything a two . marketing : in the features ? project manager : dissatisfy younger people . um user interface : younger people . it has industrial designer : well perhaps not . user interface : what did marketing : because younger peoples are cr critical and they wanted a lot of features on this thing . user interface : yeah . well that it does n't . industrial designer : well , n not exactly but uh uh if it had some games on it or something like that , user interface : yeah bu but industrial designer : but it 's for a remote control i think it i it would satisfy those needs . user interface : i think they like the speech . you could call to your uh industrial designer : yeah , the speech possibility , user interface : yeah , and the screen , industrial designer : the colours . marketing : lcd screen and scroll . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : scroll options , yeah . marketing : i i think they 'll be quite met with their expectations . project manager : yeah , but those are more fancy functions , not not really many features or something . user interface : right , that that that project manager : it has relatively few features , user interface : those are features . marketing : it 's three features , basically , project manager : with marketing : the lcd touch screen is feature . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : the microphone is a feature . user interface : are n't the features the microphone 's feature and that you can change the channel 's feature , and that you can change the volume is feature , project manager : yeah . user interface : and that you can change the options of the remote , uh uh something like that . yeah . project manager : ours had other features with marketing : yeah , okay . i think yeah , and then you have the audio settings , channel setting , video settings . industrial designer : the easy volume up button . user interface : those are features . industrial designer : remote younger people usually use the remote control to put on the volume . turn uh turn up the volume . marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : enough features ? marketing : so i 've chos i shou i think it 's it 's it 's a one . personally , yeah . i think once you 've 'cause you have the channel features b uh you have the uh screen features , audio features , the you have all buttons on it which you 'd like , microphone extra , lcd screen extra , scroll thing extra . project manager : okay , you think one , user interface : yeah . project manager : what do you think ? user interface : i think two or three . project manager : you . three , yeah . i 'd say three , so two it is then user interface : yeah . yeah uh a two a two . just another two . marketing : make it make it a two . project manager : or industrial designer : one two three . marketing : or make it uh a fucking two . user interface : we like two . industrial designer : right . marketing : you can see the remote control is r_ and r_ . user interface : yeah , there 's r_ and r_ in front . project manager : yeah . marketing : has user interface : uh it 's not the colour , so maybe you should make two , but it has r_ and r_ . marketing : oh yeah , do did have nah y you have the black one . user interface : yeah . marketing : and we 'll probably make also a yellow one . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , project manager : yeah , user interface : but not r_ and r_ yellow i think . project manager : maybe maybe two . well m th but the logo is on on the front , industrial designer : okay , true , yeah . marketing : maybe two . project manager : so a two , yeah , user interface : one d on i it 's the colours and the marketing : x_ marks spot . project manager : that 's marketing : and the menu is avail that is available is easy to use . user interface : i think it is , but i do n't know what you think . industrial designer : i think it 's easier to use than a regular remote control , because when you push on the options menu , you get the the the various options uh entirely explained . entirely explained . marketing : yeah , tha that 's so true . mm-hmm . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : instead of uh just finding out what an icon means on a button . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , uh user interface : and you can navigate easier , because wi with the you have to push the the the arrows and with a normal tv uh remote . industrial designer : yeah , you can navigate . uh . marketing : i think that wou that would be quite hard to learn to use it . industrial designer : you 're not satisfied , okay . let 's start over again then . marketing : no , i 'm not not convinc . user interface : yeah . let 's make a different remote . well industrial designer : marketing : let 's go th for inhalation of air ] user interface : menu . industrial designer : marketing : i think it would be a t yeah , two . user interface : a two ? industrial designer : a two . marketing : now lower . project manager : oh , well that 's that 's pretty good , user interface : we only have twos . industrial designer : oh yeah , i think so . yeah . user interface : uh just twos . one three and a few ones . industrial designer : and three . marketing : so okay , we have one three , a one , that that have to got up . user interface : two threes . marketing : two two two two two . user interface : we m mostly have twos , so it 's pretty good . marketing : so two , yeah . the average is a two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the average . marketing : that is quite good user interface : yeah . i think so too . industrial designer : yeah , i think so . marketing : in my opinion . that user interface : we can be happy . industrial designer : save . user interface : yeah . what is it ? it 's like a bug or something . industrial designer : it 's a fly . user interface : a fly , yeah . a f butterfly . yeah . that 's it . marketing : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on the usability of remote control . </s> marketing : are all the buttons easy to find ? not only this buttons , all the buttons . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : well , i think they are . the options are it uh little bit harder , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but if you touch the options then it 's uh industrial designer : take a harder look , yeah , sure . marketing : i think th it 's industrial designer : it 's easier than the regular uh remote control . marketing : easy t project manager : yeah , and you use these buttons the most , marketing : yeah , i think this is easy now . i think th i think the options buttons are not the the easiest way to to project manager : huh ? so industrial designer : yeah . user interface : no they 're not , but they 're they 're they are easy to find . marketing : to handle . true . industrial designer : yeah , they are a lot easier to find than uh th than on the regular remote controls marketing : i would rate it a industrial designer : where you have to uh find out what which sign or icon means on uh every button . marketing : yeah , okay , that 's true , that 's true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so you have t you have to use the the the manual to understand most project manager : which marketing : but that 's that 's vantage of lcd screen , you can have text . project manager : so which number are we going to fill in ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i would say yeah . industrial designer : i think it 's uh it 's a two , at least . user interface : yeah . yeah , project manager : a two , yeah ? user interface : you can make it a two . project manager : two , three and industrial designer : it 's not perfect , but marketing : yeah . project manager : what do you think ? marketing : i think it 's a three . industrial designer : a three ? project manager : okay , so we have two , two , three . industrial designer : and why is that ? </s>
<s> why did group think the remote control can be easily used for both young and old ? </s> marketing : it 's easy to use , as well for younger as elderl elderly people . user interface : for young people i think it 's easy to use . marketing : young means sixteen to forty years . industrial designer : yeah , i was uh user interface : yeah . marketing : and elderly from forty eight to their death . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i think it 's industrial designer : i think it 's the most useful uh remote control ever to be manufactured . user interface : in the entire mankind . project manager : okay , you 're very enthusiastic about your own design , marketing : also if you 're sixty years old industrial designer : yeah , but because it has the regular uh controls , li uh as you can see in the screen now , and uh you do n't have all the other options uh always uh on your screen . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's t i think it 's really easy to use . you want these options to project manager : as well for the for the older people ? industrial designer : uh sure . marketing : yeah , as well as your if you 're fif sixty years old , you 're holding one of those things in your hand user interface : yeah , but uh yeah , but they they do n't want the uh extra options , right ? marketing : no , but we 're going to th make this f for a all kind of people , user interface : so project manager : and would it be easy for them to use the speech recognition ? user interface : yeah , okay , marketing : so it it it has to be user interface : but so they could uh i think it is . if they read a manual . project manager : because that might marketing : if you read the manual , user interface : yeah , alright . industrial designer : perhaps that is one of the most uh marketing : always . project manager : m maybe that 's the most user friendly and easy to use . user interface : because it it 's not it 's not it 's it 's not uh difficult . industrial designer : uh because a lot of user interface : you say you say uh record to to the to the speech recognition , industrial designer : channel one , channel four , yeah . user interface : then you say the question and the answer . and that 's everything it does , the speech recognition . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , well maybe that would make it even more easy to use for them . user interface : yeah . i think it would make it uh industrial designer : yeah , i think it does . marketing : so </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about production finance . </s> project manager : no , uh count uh number of functions , because for every button you have to pay industrial designer : oh okay . project manager : and there are different screen shots , so or different different screens , industrial designer : well i dra marketing : ah , okay , cool . industrial designer : uh danny , danny , i 'll do that , marketing : huh ? yeah ? oh , yea yeah , you design it . um industrial designer : because i draw the uh project manager : so user interface : we 've got a battery , one or t two batteries , or not ? nee one battery , with two small batteries . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , but it 's it 's more about the energy source , huh ? do you use a hand dynamo , a battery , kinetic or solar cells ? user interface : yeah . i would do a battery we do . right ? marketing : solar cell . no project manager : we 'll wait . user interface : a battery . one battery , industrial designer : no , no solar cell , no no no no . marketing : it took a battery ? user interface : right ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : no hand dynamo . marketing : yeah . user interface : electronics , simple chip industrial designer : hand marketing : we have user interface : advanced chip , right ? marketing : no , we have sample speaker . industrial designer : on advanced chip . marketing : but b al but we also have sample speaker , do user interface : yeah , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : so this one and this one . uh we ha we have um single marketing : oh , we already on nine . user interface : what ? are we ? oh yay . marketing : we have double curved . user interface : the single . industrial designer : single nee single curved . double curved was uh uh see uh ju three dimensional . marketing : single . industrial designer : but it is n't three dimensional , user interface : oh the the industrial designer : it is n't curved in a l marketing : this one is user interface : it 's not going to work uh people . we have rubber . marketing : this one is curved like this , project manager : i 'll just fill it in . marketing : right . it 's curved like this . industrial designer : no no no , project manager : um rubber indeed ? industrial designer : single curved is like this . uh that 's the only curve you made , marketing : yeah , bu what industrial designer : not th uh curved like that . that 's uh marketing : oh , but we have curves like it and it . user interface : thirteen ? marketing : there are two curves , right ? oh , okay i understand , i understand . user interface : with a scroll wheel , right ? is he integrated ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : rubber . user interface : no , eh ? i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : push button . no , we do n't have push button . industrial designer : we got ta integrate scroll wheel and push button , because when you push it and you w it wo n't just pu uh makes possible to s user interface : oh yeah , right , we want it to it 's not it 's not no . industrial designer : not going to work ? marketing : lcd display . industrial designer : okay . okay um user interface : fifteen , oh , too bad . oh but with special colour we have . a special form , right ? industrial designer : but now button supplements . we do n't got the button supplements . user interface : oh , we do n't have any buttons , so marketing : eighteen and a half , user interface : yeah , we need to uh marketing : damn . industrial designer : damn . marketing : we have to lower it with six points . user interface : no , uh we have fifteen and industrial designer : okay . marketing : twelve and half . user interface : oh , right . industrial designer : user interface : we could lose the curve . marketing : we could use user interface : yeah , i would lose the curve . industrial designer : we could lose the scroll wheel . you could make it just a regular scroll wheel . user interface : but you ca n't push it , so you have to tap . industrial designer : yeah , if you ca n't push it you have to tap the the options window uh button here and then uh scroll down with the d with uh with uh the button . user interface : yeah , alright . project manager : yeah , i think that will be our best bet . user interface : so normal scroll wheel ? industrial designer : normal scroll wheel . user interface : and i think we should lose the curve . marketing : i think we should scrap the sample speaker . industrial designer : lose marketing : it 's four pri it four units . user interface : yeah , but if you would i it is a new feature , it it 's something special . industrial designer : okay , so we do n't exactly need the single we do n't need a curve . marketing : but w d wha user interface : no , the curve does n't really industrial designer : 's possible to lose curve . marketing : curved then it will be square . user interface : no , then it will wo n't uh stand up from the table . then it would just industrial designer : okay . marketing : was that does that mean to it , single curve ? industrial designer : yeah , that 's meant with scr uh with s curve . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the curve is uh in a dimension . marketing : okay . industrial designer : if you make it a flat one , s n it 's no curve , you got no curves . user interface : so we would lose this one ? industrial designer : yeah , okay . marketing : yeah , but tha that that only is one . user interface : yeah , we could s yeah , a bit . industrial designer : no , two . marketing : no , one . user interface : sixteen point three . industrial designer : oh , okay , indeed . marketing : so we do n't user interface : so we still marketing : yeah , we also have to industrial designer : is it possible to make user interface : could could we do it on a regular chip on print or something ? marketing : no , otherwise we do n't have an lcd screen . user interface : no ? ma y you just ca n't do that , or uh project manager : and what did you change ? you changed the uh scroll wheel user interface : we changed th project manager : and user interface : yeah , and the single curved to uncurved . marketing : single curved . project manager : oh , but it 's just one marketing : flat . yeah , so that does does n't does n't that mu i think project manager : point , so maybe you should should uh marketing : scrap sample speaker ? project manager : yeah , you should you should drop the speech recognition . industrial designer : the sample speaker is two d wait , f s four points . marketing : that that 's uh user interface : yeah , but it 's t marketing : yes , four points . project manager : and then you can keep the curve . user interface : yeah , but it is uh it it is a new feature , project manager : or ca n't you ? user interface : it is something special . industrial designer : yeah , uh becau uh when you lose the marketing : yeah , but what what else what else uh do you want to scrap ? user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : marketing : f you have to we have to scrap four points . user interface : yeah , that 's difficult . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or make it on a hand dynamo , but i do n't think that will work . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : ma make it with wood instead of rubber ? industrial designer : no , that 's no . make it w uh when you made it uh uh uh a remote control of wood ? user interface : we could make it titanium instead of rubber . industrial designer : you do n't make a remote control of ah . marketing : yeah , project manager : yeah , marketing : it it i project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah , it also uh it also takes one point less . project manager : yeah , but uh a wooden remote control only helps for uh old people we discussed , user interface : oh . oh can i ask something ? what is special colour ? marketing : yeah . user interface : is that the wood uh wood uh marketing : i think it is . user interface : this , we have to have that one too ? industrial designer : it is n't . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : what ? marketing : yeah . project manager : but it 's only a half . but i think the only option is to drop the uh sample speaker . marketing : yeah . sample speaker . industrial designer : to knock the sample speaker , yeah . and sample sensor . user interface : th then we still have too much marketing : yeah , okay , user interface : if we use the uh industrial designer : but m yeah , course , marketing : three . point three . industrial designer : but user interface : yeah , we we scrap that one ? industrial designer : what we 'll have . let 's make it thirteen or fourteen . user interface : see , a po marketing : point twelve . user interface : three . we need point three . marketing : that 's a scroll wheel . user interface : uh it 's a colour . do n't make it wood . industrial designer : a colour . marketing : yeah , but a wood user interface : make it uh marketing : we can make it brown , dark brown , not wood . user interface : yeah , but it 's it 's special colour , is it a all kind of colours ? industrial designer : yeah , special colours , fruity colours . user interface : it 's also green or uh marketing : is it also industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no that that 's just normal colour fruit colours . user interface : yeah , but it 's a special colour than just rubber colour . marketing : normal colours , yellow user interface : you have to add something to the rubber to make it green . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you do n't say here 's green rubber . industrial designer : they do n't sell green rubber plants . marketing : yeah , but then i d i do n't think we can ever make to a twelve and half . industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah , you can , you should you have to lose marketing : but then we have to scrap lcd display , we have to scrap uh user interface : no , it is the scroll wheel , i guess . industrial designer : no no no . marketing : s advanced chip . no then we have to scrap everything we got because how many colours we gon na make ? industrial designer : if we lose the scroll wheel and make it totally uh depending uh dependent on uh the touch screen marketing : five ? then we have two . user interface : a push , yeah . marketing : touch . industrial designer : then it 's possible to make . and then you can and then you can add to the colours . marketing : then we can make add two colours on it . yeah , two colours it . industrial designer : special c user interface : switch colours . industrial designer : okay , if you lose uh if you lose the user interface : it was such a great idea . industrial designer : you lose this one , you got eleven point five marketing : they can add two colours . industrial designer : and you make i and then you can make uh the spec single curve , for example . marketing : but the colours . um how ma uh the colours like l she told , is that all the colours we add or industrial designer : how d uh uh how many colours ? user interface : what do you mean ? industrial designer : special colours , all the colours you want , because you want to make p marketing : yeah , but we we we are we have yellow , red , uh black , titanium . industrial designer : yeah , but uh when you use more than one colour , it 's a special colour . marketing : ah okay . user interface : but i think when you use the colour that 's not originally the rubber then you use special colour , industrial designer : i suppose . user interface : 'cause you have to add it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , but the rubbers alls original black . user interface : yeah , so you always lose the special colour . you co you could make it always black , like normal remote . marketing : yeah b yeah , but we 're gon na make it yellow uh red , and then you add you have two special colours on top of the one we have now . industrial designer : nee we we also want to make ano another colour . user interface : oh right , yeah . yeah , we should u marketing : yeah , but m user interface : yeah . we have to make this like four or five or something . marketing : yeah , user interface : that 's what it means . marketing : because we have more colours than only black . project manager : yeah , but is n't it per remote that you pay ? user interface : yeah . marketing : i then i think i p i don i do n't think they me mean they 're special project manager : half ? user interface : oh right , yeah . is it per remote ? project manager : i think you pay half per remote . user interface : yeah . yeah , that 's right , project manager : so each remote with a special colour . user interface : and you one colour per remote . industrial designer : yeah , indeed , yeah . user interface : so then it is one . industrial designer : you do n't need four of those uh four of those special colours in one in one remote . marketing : yeah , okay okay , true . true , true . project manager : i hope . marketing : we have two points spare . project manager : so the battery , marketing : nee one point . project manager : we have um advanced chip on print . user interface : one . so it would be curved , single curve . industrial designer : project manager : because of thing user interface : or not ? project manager : yeah , well you can at least make it curved again . user interface : so y you just ca n't make a nice remote . industrial designer : yeah , single curve . project manager : because that was very important , user interface : it 's too bad for the speaker . project manager : huh ? so it 's curved , it 's still that so we we dropped the speech recognition together with the speaker . user interface : should we change that tha that that 's a one if not , marketing : mm yep . project manager : we dropped the scroll wheel . user interface : or not ? could you copy it ? project manager : and the rest is the same , user interface : and make it uh project manager : huh ? am i right ? marketing : y yea the scroll wheel is dropped . user interface : the entire uh industrial designer : uh . huh . user interface : perhaps you can then copy page or so . ooh . no . oh you you made the entire could you industrial designer : okay . undo , undo . user interface : oh industrial designer : undo . user interface : not well . industrial designer : so , 'kay . user interface : would you ? industrial designer : twenty minutes ? user interface : by the perhaps you can save this one , and then copy or something . add it copy page . select all . project manager : no , but you c yeah . user interface : alright , something went wrong . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about budget control . </s> marketing : we have to lower it with six points . user interface : no , uh we have fifteen and industrial designer : okay . marketing : twelve and half . user interface : oh , right . industrial designer : user interface : we could lose the curve . marketing : we could use user interface : yeah , i would lose the curve . industrial designer : we could lose the scroll wheel . you could make it just a regular scroll wheel . user interface : but you ca n't push it , so you have to tap . industrial designer : yeah , if you ca n't push it you have to tap the the options window uh button here and then uh scroll down with the d with uh with uh the button . user interface : yeah , alright . project manager : yeah , i think that will be our best bet . user interface : so normal scroll wheel ? industrial designer : normal scroll wheel . user interface : and i think we should lose the curve . marketing : i think we should scrap the sample speaker . industrial designer : lose marketing : it 's four pri it four units . user interface : yeah , but if you would i it is a new feature , it it 's something special . industrial designer : okay , so we do n't exactly need the single we do n't need a curve . marketing : but w d wha user interface : no , the curve does n't really industrial designer : 's possible to lose curve . marketing : curved then it will be square . user interface : no , then it will wo n't uh stand up from the table . then it would just industrial designer : okay . marketing : was that does that mean to it , single curve ? industrial designer : yeah , that 's meant with scr uh with s curve . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the curve is uh in a dimension . marketing : okay . industrial designer : if you make it a flat one , s n it 's no curve , you got no curves . user interface : so we would lose this one ? industrial designer : yeah , okay . marketing : yeah , but tha that that only is one . user interface : yeah , we could s yeah , a bit . industrial designer : no , two . marketing : no , one . user interface : sixteen point three . industrial designer : oh , okay , indeed . marketing : so we do n't user interface : so we still marketing : yeah , we also have to industrial designer : is it possible to make user interface : could could we do it on a regular chip on print or something ? marketing : no , otherwise we do n't have an lcd screen . user interface : no ? ma y you just ca n't do that , or uh project manager : and what did you change ? you changed the uh scroll wheel user interface : we changed th project manager : and user interface : yeah , and the single curved to uncurved . marketing : single curved . project manager : oh , but it 's just one marketing : flat . yeah , so that does does n't does n't that mu i think project manager : point , so maybe you should should uh marketing : scrap sample speaker ? project manager : yeah , you should you should drop the speech recognition . industrial designer : the sample speaker is two d wait , f s four points . marketing : that that 's uh user interface : yeah , but it 's t marketing : yes , four points . project manager : and then you can keep the curve . user interface : yeah , but it is uh it it is a new feature , project manager : or ca n't you ? user interface : it is something special . industrial designer : yeah , uh becau uh when you lose the marketing : yeah , but what what else what else uh do you want to scrap ? user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : marketing : f you have to we have to scrap four points . user interface : yeah , that 's difficult . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or make it on a hand dynamo , but i do n't think that will work . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : ma make it with wood instead of rubber ? industrial designer : no , that 's no . make it w uh when you made it uh uh uh a remote control of wood ? user interface : we could make it titanium instead of rubber . industrial designer : you do n't make a remote control of ah . marketing : yeah , project manager : yeah , marketing : it it i project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah , it also uh it also takes one point less . project manager : yeah , but uh a wooden remote control only helps for uh old people we discussed , user interface : oh . oh can i ask something ? what is special colour ? marketing : yeah . user interface : is that the wood uh wood uh marketing : i think it is . user interface : this , we have to have that one too ? industrial designer : it is n't . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : what ? marketing : yeah . project manager : but it 's only a half . but i think the only option is to drop the uh sample speaker . marketing : yeah . sample speaker . industrial designer : to knock the sample speaker , yeah . and sample sensor . user interface : th then we still have too much marketing : yeah , okay , user interface : if we use the uh industrial designer : but m yeah , course , marketing : three . point three . industrial designer : but user interface : yeah , we we scrap that one ? industrial designer : what we 'll have . let 's make it thirteen or fourteen . user interface : see , a po marketing : point twelve . user interface : three . we need point three . marketing : that 's a scroll wheel . user interface : uh it 's a colour . do n't make it wood . industrial designer : a colour . marketing : yeah , but a wood user interface : make it uh marketing : we can make it brown , dark brown , not wood . user interface : yeah , but it 's it 's special colour , is it a all kind of colours ? industrial designer : yeah , special colours , fruity colours . user interface : it 's also green or uh marketing : is it also industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no that that 's just normal colour fruit colours . user interface : yeah , but it 's a special colour than just rubber colour . marketing : normal colours , yellow user interface : you have to add something to the rubber to make it green . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you do n't say here 's green rubber . industrial designer : they do n't sell green rubber plants . marketing : yeah , but then i d i do n't think we can ever make to a twelve and half . industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah , you can , you should you have to lose marketing : but then we have to scrap lcd display , we have to scrap uh user interface : no , it is the scroll wheel , i guess . industrial designer : no no no . marketing : s advanced chip . no then we have to scrap everything we got because how many colours we gon na make ? industrial designer : if we lose the scroll wheel and make it totally uh depending uh dependent on uh the touch screen marketing : five ? then we have two . user interface : a push , yeah . marketing : touch . industrial designer : then it 's possible to make . and then you can and then you can add to the colours . marketing : then we can make add two colours on it . yeah , two colours it . industrial designer : special c user interface : switch colours . industrial designer : okay , if you lose uh if you lose the user interface : it was such a great idea . industrial designer : you lose this one , you got eleven point five marketing : they can add two colours . industrial designer : and you make i and then you can make uh the spec single curve , for example . marketing : but the colours . um how ma uh the colours like l she told , is that all the colours we add or industrial designer : how d uh uh how many colours ? user interface : what do you mean ? industrial designer : special colours , all the colours you want , because you want to make p marketing : yeah , but we we we are we have yellow , red , uh black , titanium . industrial designer : yeah , but uh when you use more than one colour , it 's a special colour . marketing : ah okay . user interface : but i think when you use the colour that 's not originally the rubber then you use special colour , industrial designer : i suppose . user interface : 'cause you have to add it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , but the rubbers alls original black . user interface : yeah , so you always lose the special colour . you co you could make it always black , like normal remote . marketing : yeah b yeah , but we 're gon na make it yellow uh red , and then you add you have two special colours on top of the one we have now . industrial designer : nee we we also want to make ano another colour . user interface : oh right , yeah . yeah , we should u marketing : yeah , but m user interface : yeah . we have to make this like four or five or something . marketing : yeah , user interface : that 's what it means . marketing : because we have more colours than only black . project manager : yeah , but is n't it per remote that you pay ? user interface : yeah . marketing : i then i think i p i don i do n't think they me mean they 're special project manager : half ? user interface : oh right , yeah . is it per remote ? project manager : i think you pay half per remote . user interface : yeah . yeah , that 's right , project manager : so each remote with a special colour . user interface : and you one colour per remote . industrial designer : yeah , indeed , yeah . user interface : so then it is one . industrial designer : you do n't need four of those uh four of those special colours in one in one remote . marketing : yeah , okay okay , true . true , true . project manager : i hope . marketing : we have two points spare . project manager : so the battery , marketing : nee one point . project manager : we have um advanced chip on print . user interface : one . so it would be curved , single curve . industrial designer : project manager : because of thing user interface : or not ? project manager : yeah , well you can at least make it curved again . user interface : so y you just ca n't make a nice remote . industrial designer : yeah , single curve . project manager : because that was very important , user interface : it 's too bad for the speaker . project manager : huh ? so it 's curved , it 's still that so we we dropped the speech recognition together with the speaker . user interface : should we change that tha that that 's a one if not , marketing : mm yep . project manager : we dropped the scroll wheel . user interface : or not ? could you copy it ? project manager : and the rest is the same , user interface : and make it uh project manager : huh ? am i right ? marketing : y yea the scroll wheel is dropped . user interface : the entire uh industrial designer : uh . huh . user interface : perhaps you can then copy page or so . ooh . no . oh you you made the entire could you industrial designer : okay . undo , undo . user interface : oh industrial designer : undo . user interface : not well . industrial designer : so , 'kay . user interface : would you ? industrial designer : twenty minutes ? user interface : by the perhaps you can save this one , and then copy or something . add it copy page . select all . project manager : no , but you c yeah . user interface : alright , something went wrong . project manager : okay , but this this new remote we can afford . user interface : it does n't work . let 's forget . marketing : it should 've work . industrial designer : okay , so you had this list at start ? project manager : hmm ? no , i had n't . industrial designer : alright . when did you receive this list ? project manager : i just received it . industrial designer : ah okay . user interface : yeah . oh project manager : they do n't work so hard at the finance department . user interface : ignore that . well , so industrial designer : ah okay . i suppose this is a user interface : too bad . industrial designer : okay , so we lose the scroll wheel , user interface : yeah . the microphone . project manager : yeah , and that 's it . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and the microphone . </s>
<s> why did user interface disagree with losing speech recognition in the discussion of production finance ? </s> project manager : yeah , you should you should drop the speech recognition . industrial designer : the sample speaker is two d wait , f s four points . marketing : that that 's uh user interface : yeah , but it 's t marketing : yes , four points . project manager : and then you can keep the curve . user interface : yeah , but it is uh it it is a new feature , project manager : or ca n't you ? user interface : it is something special . industrial designer : yeah , uh becau uh when you lose the marketing : yeah , but what what else what else uh do you want to scrap ? user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : marketing : f you have to we have to scrap four points . user interface : yeah , that 's difficult . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or make it on a hand dynamo , but i do n't think that will work . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : ma make it with wood instead of rubber ? industrial designer : no , that 's no . make it w uh when you made it uh uh uh a remote control of wood ? user interface : we could make it titanium instead of rubber . industrial designer : you do n't make a remote control of ah . marketing : yeah , project manager : yeah , marketing : it it i project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah , it also uh it also takes one point less . project manager : yeah , but uh a wooden remote control only helps for uh old people we discussed , user interface : oh . oh can i ask something ? what is special colour ? marketing : yeah . user interface : is that the wood uh wood uh marketing : i think it is . user interface : this , we have to have that one too ? industrial designer : it is n't . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : what ? marketing : yeah . project manager : but it 's only a half . but i think the only option is to drop the uh sample speaker . marketing : yeah . sample speaker . industrial designer : to knock the sample speaker , yeah . and sample sensor . user interface : th then we still have too much marketing : yeah , okay , user interface : if we use the uh industrial designer : but m yeah , course , marketing : three . point three . industrial designer : but user interface : yeah , we we scrap that one ? industrial designer : what we 'll have . let 's make it thirteen or fourteen . user interface : see , a po marketing : point twelve . user interface : three . we need point three . marketing : that 's a scroll wheel . user interface : uh it 's a colour . do n't make it wood . industrial designer : a colour . marketing : yeah , but a wood user interface : make it uh marketing : we can make it brown , dark brown , not wood . user interface : yeah , but it 's it 's special colour , is it a all kind of colours ? industrial designer : yeah , special colours , fruity colours . user interface : it 's also green or uh marketing : is it also industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no that that 's just normal colour fruit colours . user interface : yeah , but it 's a special colour than just rubber colour . marketing : normal colours , yellow user interface : you have to add something to the rubber to make it green . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you do n't say here 's green rubber . industrial designer : they do n't sell green rubber plants . marketing : yeah , but then i d i do n't think we can ever make to a twelve and half . industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah , you can , you should you have to lose marketing : but then we have to scrap lcd display , we have to scrap uh user interface : no , it is the scroll wheel , i guess . industrial designer : no no no . marketing : s advanced chip . no then we have to scrap everything we got because how many colours we gon na make ? industrial designer : if we lose the scroll wheel and make it totally uh depending uh dependent on uh the touch screen marketing : five ? then we have two . user interface : a push , yeah . marketing : touch . industrial designer : then it 's possible to make . and then you can and then you can add to the colours . marketing : then we can make add two colours on it . yeah , two colours it . industrial designer : special c user interface : switch colours . industrial designer : okay , if you lose uh if you lose the user interface : it was such a great idea . industrial designer : you lose this one , you got eleven point five marketing : they can add two colours . industrial designer : and you make i and then you can make uh the spec single curve , for example . marketing : but the colours . um how ma uh the colours like l she told , is that all the colours we add or industrial designer : how d uh uh how many colours ? user interface : what do you mean ? industrial designer : special colours , all the colours you want , because you want to make p marketing : yeah , but we we we are we have yellow , red , uh black , titanium . industrial designer : yeah , but uh when you use more than one colour , it 's a special colour . marketing : ah okay . user interface : but i think when you use the colour that 's not originally the rubber then you use special colour , industrial designer : i suppose . user interface : 'cause you have to add it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , but the rubbers alls original black . user interface : yeah , so you always lose the special colour . you co you could make it always black , like normal remote . marketing : yeah b yeah , but we 're gon na make it yellow uh red , and then you add you have two special colours on top of the one we have now . industrial designer : nee we we also want to make ano another colour . user interface : oh right , yeah . yeah , we should u marketing : yeah , but m user interface : yeah . we have to make this like four or five or something . marketing : yeah , user interface : that 's what it means . marketing : because we have more colours than only black . project manager : yeah , but is n't it per remote that you pay ? user interface : yeah . marketing : i then i think i p i don i do n't think they me mean they 're special project manager : half ? user interface : oh right , yeah . is it per remote ? project manager : i think you pay half per remote . user interface : yeah . yeah , that 's right , project manager : so each remote with a special colour . user interface : and you one colour per remote . industrial designer : yeah , indeed , yeah . user interface : so then it is one . industrial designer : you do n't need four of those uh four of those special colours in one in one remote . marketing : yeah , okay okay , true . true , true . project manager : i hope . marketing : we have two points spare . project manager : so the battery , marketing : nee one point . project manager : we have um advanced chip on print . user interface : one . so it would be curved , single curve . industrial designer : project manager : because of thing user interface : or not ? project manager : yeah , well you can at least make it curved again . user interface : so y you just ca n't make a nice remote . industrial designer : yeah , single curve . project manager : because that was very important , user interface : it 's too bad for the speaker . project manager : huh ? so it 's curved , it 's still that so we we dropped the speech recognition together with the speaker . user interface : should we change that tha that that 's a one if not , marketing : mm yep . project manager : we dropped the scroll wheel . user interface : or not ? could you copy it ? project manager : and the rest is the same , user interface : and make it uh project manager : huh ? am i right ? marketing : y yea the scroll wheel is dropped . user interface : the entire uh industrial designer : uh . huh . user interface : perhaps you can then copy page or so . ooh . no . oh you you made the entire could you industrial designer : okay . undo , undo . user interface : oh industrial designer : undo . user interface : not well . industrial designer : so , 'kay . user interface : would you ? industrial designer : twenty minutes ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : so we are here to talk about functional design . now hopefully we 've all got a better idea from than we did f leaving the last meeting as to what it is we are up to now . so here 's an agenda . uh i 'll open . um you should know that i 'll be taking minutes during all the meetings , as i was struggling to our last time uh and that 'll be easier for me now because i 'm not actually giving the whole presentation . uh the additional points are just the stuff that we sent and that i forwarded on from upper management having a few bright ideas to make our lives painful . industrial designer : project manager : um now you can all give your presentations . we can talk about the requirements and hopefully come to some decisions . right , forty minutes for this meeting , so a bit more time than the last one . here 's the additional points i just wanted to put those in there to see if you guys had any comments on them . uh did you all receive that email ? marketing : yeah . project manager : so does anyone have any overall marketing : well uh what comes up for me is that if we 're gon na if we 're gon na be marketing a product that is going to be uh having no teletext , people are very comfortable with the idea of having teletext and using teletext , and so we 're not we 're gon na be a new product without something that people are very comfortable having right now . project manager : mm . mm . yep . marketing : so that 's , from a marketing perspective i i see i see a lack . and so we have to go , i think , in the other direction . what are we gon na have that makes this thing better than project manager : well tha that first point could uh also be an op opportunity because in seeing that teletext is becoming outdated , some sort remote control that can work with the internet there is the opportunity that 's presented , i guess . marketing : right . yeah . no , i i agree with you . project manager : okay . marketing : so what i 'm talking about is i see that one side we 're eliminating something so we have to come up with another side which is , what are we gon na be targeting our market uh that identifies our product as better than because it does n't have teletext it has ta-ta-ta-ta-ta . project manager : okay . marketing : so that 's that 's that was my reactions . project manager : yeah . but but we are sort of being dictated that this should only be for the television . marketing : yeah yeah . project manager : so we 're quite fixed . so we 're really probably , in terms of marketing , are looking for that 's uh that 's a cost winner rather than a fantastic new feature product . industrial designer : yeah bu but we we 're designing only the remote , project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : we not design the tv . so uh we 're gon na be removing the teletext out of any tv that we people use our remote with . marketing : yeah . 'kay . that 's right . industrial designer : so it 's kind of a stupid decision . marketing : i think we take with you . project manager : but there 's also the potential for mark there 's a market here for our lost teletext . user interface : right . project manager : for example someone that just goes to the shop that wants a replacement wants it as cheap as possible . twenty-five euros is the selling price , we really have to innovate here i guess . marketing : that 's what i 'm that 's what i 'm talking about is is that we have to find something that is gon na be very attractive about this product 'cause somebody , some people are gon na be hap unhappy 'cause it took they ca n't ac access their teletext . okay . 'cause we 're talking about eighty percent or ninety percent or ninety-five percent of the televisions out there are are teletext . project manager : k yeah . marketing : so so it 's it 's not that i 'm criticizing the product at all . it 's just when we eliminate that then what do we bring ? what are we bringing in to take the place of this , project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : and we have to d in my opinion we have to double up . industrial designer : marketing : if we lose one we need to bring two or three . project manager : okay . okay i think that the last point is probably quite uh straightforward . obviously the the w it has to be branded . 'kay . industrial designer : so then the double r_ will be our our project manager : on the product yeah . can you handle that black and yellow ? user interface : i think one of industrial designer : i tho i tho i thou i think rol ro rolls-royce might mind , but do n't worry . user interface : i think w , yeah , one of the things that we should also keep in mind um when we 're doing this i mean our company 's slogan is we put the fashion in electronics , right . so i think our kind of our target here is to have some kind of very like sleek nice look remote and we want it to be functional as well , but i think one of the main selling points is that we do n't want it to be clunky like like this thing here . you know we do n't wan na a big clunker . we want something that looks nice and it 's fashionable and so marketing : so you have this ? project manager : nah . so we have three presentations , and i think we 'll go in order of participant number here . so we can have a look at the working design first from participant two . that 's okay . user interface : that 's fine . okay so project manager : mm it 's enough . but uh click it on off ? user interface : so you all know me , i 'm the industrial designer . and we 've some basic components that um our remote is gon na need , just basically every remote 'll need 'em . industrial designer : user interface : we need some kinda of power d power source . um we have to decide on our our user interface , which is his department , but the in user interface is also a major component . um we need a programmable digital signal processor to um to take the input from the user and translate that into uh into electronic signal , which we pass to the infra-red l_e_d_ , which you aim at the television uh which and it receives that signal . you need a on-off switch um i do n't know how that got in there . and uh we also need to um have the if we want a universal remote we need to have encryption codes for the different makes of tvs . so we need to know all the different you know all the different signals and so that 'll require some memory as well . um so here 's just a basic layout of how how the remote would work . you ha the v the power source is in the upper right-hand corner there , and you can see that uh we have the user interface here which is connected to the chip which does all our signal processing , and then passes that signal on to the infra-red l_e_d_ and that signal is then emitted and received by the television at the photo-transistor . so those are the basic components that need to go into this and everything else is pretty much uh open to move around . marketing : now is would this be considered just a standard uh um user interface : i think any des marketing : this is not this is not cutting edge technology we 're talking here . we 're talking about existing technology . user interface : right i think marketing : nothing is being modified or upgraded or new discoveries . user interface : yeah this is just this is just a basic layout of ev of all the components that w w are gon na be absolutely necessary f to have a working remote . we can add things in like if we wanted some voice recognition , i mean that i mean that you can kinda say would would fall under the user interface and the digital signal processing chip . marketing : okay . okay . project manager : do we have an idea of costs of different components ? user interface : um well the most the most costly components are gon na be the chip and the uh th it could als basically the user interface and the casing are gon na be expensive as well . project manager : 'kay . user interface : um the l_e_d_ and the the transistors and everything else are you know they 're they 're pretty cheap . so depending on what we want our functionality to be , um the chip could be expensive or it could be cheap . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : um depending on the n amount of memory we need in there and stuff like that and h and h you know how much power . project manager : do we have any ballpark figures for that yet ? no . user interface : uh i do n't have any figures right now . project manager : 'kay . user interface : we uh we have to wait until we get to a more specific design phase for that . project manager : yeah . user interface : um but and i think a significant part of the cost could be the actual the actual casing itself and and you know the the b the buttons and things like that , i think . marketing : n okay . mm . mm the shell ? user interface : yeah . basically yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . user interface : so yeah . that 's all i have really . project manager : okay . thanks . and we have participant three , which i believe is pedro . industrial designer : i project manager : i can give you that to click on . industrial designer : hey mouse . marketing : industrial designer : open . project manager : and you wan na get industrial designer : when we 're fighting over it 's also more lot more fun . project manager : view a slide show , that 's what you wan na do , yeah ? just go up to view . user interface : click , do n't yeah . project manager : mm 'kay industrial designer : this does n't work . so yeah function design . um you guys know me , pedro , and um what i found is we want to do fashion and i think , honestly , we should keep technology low and just simple basically and try to aim for design . if basically a case will will cost the same if it looks good or bad so we ma we have to make it look good . um something cute and small . the big chunky remotes are died in the eighties . so we should just go for something that people will like to actually look at . project manager : industrial designer : and um although mo most people will buy s televisions and everything for uh that have loads of loads of little functions and everything and they mostly end up using simple functions and little things and most the people wo n't wo n't get too mad of actually having to go the to the s to the television to , for instance , tune in their the stations . there 's no need to have that in the remote . so um um as for what i would recommend for uh the the interface design , and uh i will change the colours on the on the logo , but um we should go for the user-oriented device , so simple controls and good ergonomics . um and uh although i th i th i 'm still here recommending the teletext so i 'll remove that , i guess , but um we should go for the project manager : but i t i think what the the management recommendation was less that there 's a worry that teletext will become outdated rather than we should n't have it . so i i still think if it 's cheap enough functionality-wise to include , it really should be in there . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : because otherwise we 're just going to i mean even if it 's necessary or not , if you if you 're given the choice between a t a remote with teletext or without uh when it really if it i if it is n't more expensive for us to k make because as far as i understand it , it can be operated with the same set of buttons , yeah ? so it should be in there . user interface : right as far as industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i it 's just uh the cost of an extra button . i mean software-wise there 's really no difference . project manager : yeah . okay . is n't user interface : i think . marketing : i have maybe a silly question . i in the very beginning it said with the with the advent of computers there 's gon na be the it 's gon na be out-moded teletext . i i do n't understand how those two things are connected . how does how does computers and teletext h how why is one eliminating the need of the other ? i do n't understand that . project manager : well maybe what we 're getting into here is the the idea of uh internet through the tv for example . so that might play on what we can do . industrial designer : yeah the they 're basically aiming at saying that you would use you know a couple of years ago teletext to be the easiest way to check like for uh uh the scheduling and the next programme and stuff like that user interface : scheduling . um to find out what what you 're watching even if there 's commercials you know . industrial designer : and now yeah marketing : okay . industrial designer : and now you can c look it over internet . but i still think teletext is way more convenient until until we have the same commodities . user interface : i think i ha i agree . marketing : yeah 'cause , yeah , i just i do n't see the cross-over between computers and television . i mean i do see the cross-over in some sense , industrial designer : yeah , but it 's not happen yet . yeah . marketing : but but but but with the the remote is is used for television , okay . user interface : well for me project manager : well you have digital tv still already . user interface : yeah . marketing : so so if we make the cross-over and we 're gon na view television on computers then we 're then we 're losing the the necessity of the remote . s user interface : unless you have a project manager : well there there is a for example on digital tv systems you have you can press a button and you can buy things in adverts , user interface : yeah . project manager : and you can uh you can view through a catalogue for example . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : a a family member of mine has got a system where you just um you can yeah , and there 's other features for example on other systems where you can pause live tv and things like that . they 're just features from the internet uh from computers are are coming into the tv sort of under the covers , but you still use it through a teletext . marketing : okay . project manager : so now the things to think here are that that there 's gon na be more functionality , potentially that we can handle . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah but we we do n't we 're not aiming a command for that . that 's the thing . and all of those require the other commands with more complexity and more software and user interface : i think a lot of that 's proprietary anyways . you 're not gon na be able to , you , like command a tivo with our remote . i do n't think . project manager : mm . but still there there 's an opportunity . if if it 's , for example , a trainable one then we 're just simply having like an up , down , left , right , an okay button or something like that might might do as well in future proofing it . industrial designer : yeah but we would increase the price to try to make it a trainable one , so project manager : mm . okay . industrial designer : well i dunno . one way the other teletext was there but i guess we can remove it or , you know , make two separate interface designs . user interface : i think if it 's possible you should try to you know have a talk with management about that . just you know industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah i do n't i do n't see the logic . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i i do n't see the logic in elimination of teletext , i just i i project manager : yeah , and neither do i in fact . marketing : but i 'm not a tech-mind either . i just do n't see the cross-over between computers and and and project manager : bu uh . marketing : 'cause we are designing something for a television , okay . industrial designer : project manager : i 'll communicate that back to those guys there a a and th the message really we wan na be sending to them is that , although teletext may become outdated w there 's no l logic in not having it in there anyway i if it does n't affect the price . user interface : right it 's just not industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um but i i think what they 're pushing us towards here is in terms of thinking of ways to future-proof our system for future systems that have something else other than teletext maybe . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we are selling it to an existing market . project manager : i dunno i 'm industrial designer : yeah but we 're not putting some there 's no no putting anything in in the place of teletext . marketing : that 's project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : yeah , industrial designer : that 's the problem . marketing : and and , yeah , and and we 're also marketing a product . it 's what i 'm seeing is a is a mid-range cost product . so so w we ca n't go and pump a whole bunch of technology into this thing project manager : yeah . marketing : because all of a sudden we are gon na have cost overruns . so if we drop if we are gon na choose to drop teletext , again what are we adding to the product that makes it marketable ? project manager : hmm . so if we 're keeping it basic we 're loo loo what we 're looking to sell it basically is it 's uh just being very easy to use , looking exceptionally good , that sort of thing . 'cause we really do n't have anything else there , do we ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i do n't i do n't see it , and to me if i 'm gon na market a product for b for beauty for for design i 'm gon na i 'm gon na try to market it at a much higher price . i need to make it special with a high price tag . i do n't want to make it economically uh g uh competitive . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i want i want to market it as exclusive . so i would market this product it at eighty-nine euros and come up with some really beautiful exterior design or something th but but i do n't think we have that flexibility . project manager : but i if design if design is cheap and functionality is basic , then twenty-five euros is probably a high price for a commoner garden stan standard tv so the place uh remote the then the place we 're going to justify that cost is through through design through making it a a sleek elegant high-priced basic remote . does that make sense , huh ? marketing : no i no i i understand what you say , but what i 'm what i 'm , okay we probably need to move along , project manager : yeah we probably should . marketing : but my my concern is trying to find a marketing niche for this product , project manager : we we 're doing alright for time . marketing : and if i 'm coming in with a with with twenty-five euros , which is mid-market price , um then what am i going to give these people for this ? project manager : yeah . marketing : so that 's just my question , but we can keep talking . project manager : okay . sorry that kinda cut into you there . industrial designer : no just i i would i would advocate for continuing teletext and those would be the basic commands . um as for , you know , the the case design uh maybe i 'll come up with more concrete ideas . right now it 's just the idea of simplicity and slickness , cute and small um user interface : right . i 'm just thinking you know with all these universal remotes that are out there , how many people how many people actually use every feature that ar you know i like these trainable remotes and things like that , where , you know , it 's just so confusing to do to use all these functions . where i think the largest portion of the market is just gon na you know they lost their tv remote , they need another one that 'll work with their tv . they want something that looks nice , that that that is n't gon na break when they drop it , that you know that maybe it 's it 's ergonomic , it feels good in your hand , something like that . i think that 's gon na be where you 're gon na find the biggest , you know , market share . project manager : so we are looking for something that looks good and just works , rather than looking for any special features . is that user interface : i think the more bells and whistles we add , it 's just gon na cut into our into our profits . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because i think as we as we add costs for things like uh for like if we add the voice recognition and things like that , i think you know what percentage of the of the um of the market is actually gon na use that ? maybe five percent , you know , industrial designer : yeah mm . project manager : but we can talk a little bit more potentially in the marketing marketing presentation about this . user interface : and how much right . yeah okay . project manager : be a good idea . user interface : i 'm sorry . project manager : uh sorry , i did n't mean to cut in . marketing : yeah . user interface : sorry boss . project manager : i 'm not the boss . okay . marketing : oh p pedro , i just want to say quickly i i would really like it when you can come up with some more bells and whistles , eh . industrial designer : marketing : you know sell uh things come to my mind is uh uh something that 's uh um voice-activated . i know we 're getting into some , i hope , some big money on this thing , but project manager : i think that 's probably a question more for for this guy here , yeah . marketing : is that for over here ? user interface : yeah . well it 's kinda both of us . marketing : okay , alright . project manager : is it ? user interface : us us user interface . project manager : okay . marketing : that 's industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause uh and i think of voice-activated i think of of how many times i 've i 've lost my my remote and i ca n't find it . so some way that i can i can find my remote by clapping my hands or something user interface : mm-hmm . i was thinking about that . then your lights would go off , though . marketing : uh and and so so um industrial designer : marketing : but this 's just something . i 'm trying to find some bells and whistles 'cause when they talk about tel taking out teletext , it 's like , what are we gon na put in ? what makes this thing attractive ? and it 's only for televisions . so we everyth our our competition out there has got these these multiple adaptors where they can use 'em for their v_c_r_s , their d_v_d_s , their their televisions and we 're coming out with one remote for television only . and so to me we have to make this a really special product user interface : yeah . marketing : i i i do n't s i really have to say i do n't see the market niche for this product . at this price i do n't see it yet . i 'm i i go along with this , because this is what we 're given to try to market , but i i do n't see the market niche for this product without without some really sort of something really special to identify it as as unique in the market . industrial designer : but we th that should be design . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that should be the design basically . user interface : right . industrial designer : i think technology we 'd we we 're not in the price range to do it . we do n't have the money to do it towards t f technology so we should we should aim at design . marketing : okay . have to do you have to do it in the box ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : okay well , so so that 's up to you then to to make this box in something that 's absolutely extraordinary . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : maybe make it in the form of a gun . we can sell it in united states . project manager : industrial designer : project manager : i have a question uh for you . does any of the um the features that pedro 's spoken about here have any implications we might not have thought about on in terms of just pure functionality ? in terms of making it work or the cost of that or user interface : i do n't i think all these things are pretty standard . i think we 'll be okay . project manager : okay . 'kay . cheers . onto participant four . marketing : well you know for marketing f marketing for me is uh and uh how do i go here ? okay . user interface : mm you can just click . marketing : go go . user interface : no no no marketing : is that right ? user interface : you just get off that . you just click anywhere . marketing : ah-ha . yeah , what for me is it um i d i do n't know what i 'm marketing right now , okay , 'til you spoke and when i wrote this , i do n't know what i 'm marketing . i just know that i i was identified as a a we identified ourselves as a as a developer , as a manufacturer , and as a as a um distributor t to other wholesalers . and so the th the twenty-five euros that we 've identified as the sale price is a wholesale price rather than a retail price . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : that 's what we decided here . um so what i did is i i decided that that this this needs to be a product in a in a sense can market itself . so what we 've identified here as our main marketing stratagem is is in design . we 're making the most beautiful attractive uh whatever we decide it is . so that means we have about seven more minutes or ten minutes left . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um so i would like to have a product that that we can sell easily . so i say inspiration , so having something beauty , something attractive , uh something that in a sense will sell itself . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : uh innovation i think fits into what we 're talking about here with design . uh cutting edge technology , i do n't think we 're gon na have that , these were ideas i was putting together , um unless we come up with some new age product a as far as the casing is concerned . i i wan na make this thing something that i can identify as special in some way , so maybe we can have some i i talked about environmentally sensitive , uh maybe we have a product that can be identified in some way as advantageous in a home . i do n't know . these are just thoughts . uh i wanted to talk about uh who we are as a as a corporation , that we 're new , we 're aggressive , we 're competitive , we 're we 're trying to provide a product from a new perspective rather than from an old corporate line . so to me it 's about selling d uh our identity our corporate identity along with the product . um what i found is that the projected costs are competitive . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : uh we 're kind of in the middle of the market , but what i 'm seeing is that the market is ready for i i identified new technology , but again , because what i see is budget restrictions and limitations , i do n't know that we can bring any new technology into this thing . if if we could have a technological something user interface : i have an idea . marketing : mm p please . user interface : and it 's kind of along the s lines of environmentally sensitive , and it may even fit into ergonomics , and even kind of address the issue of losing losing the remote , what we were saying it 's a common issue . um what we can do is , well you know that batteries throwing a aw remotes run through batteries like crazy . right ? marketing : solar . project manager : yeah . user interface : and s for some people yeah . well maybe not a solar remote but instead what about if we had like a power cradle ? marketing : but solar user interface : like a a cradle that is is there to hold the remote when you 're not using it , so you 'll always know where the remote is 'cause you have to put it back there to charge the remote , and we can , instead of having instead of having , you know , replaceable batteries we 'll just have a power cell that stays there for the life of the remote . you never have to get go through the go through uh all these different batteries . and also you can i i think it 's a good opportunity for the user design or for not just for the user design , but also for the just for the look and feel of the remote as as a whole . you know you could have some kind of neat little , you know , a sexy design for d a cradle and the remote itself . marketing : blah , i like it . i like the idea , but we 're talking about in cost is gon na probably double . user interface : it w it would increase the cost . marketing : but boy , we can sell this thing , because there 's no batteries , it 's environmentally sensitive , i we can identify it as a safer product in some form . user interface : and you could page the remote if you lose it . maybe there 's a button on the cradle . marketing : yep , that 's right . i really see project manager : now the the question is can we make this for less than twelve-fifty per ? marketing : but the cost i no no . no no , we have t we have to change the end cost . project manager : we we well do we necessarily have to change the end cost because uh can we dl can we do that without uh changing it twelve-fifty per product , if we basically can sell more based on this ? marketing : there 's uh i mean i do n't see it anyway . yeah , that 's gon na be up to these guys . i my reaction is no , but user interface : what i can do is i can d look into ho well pedro and i can look into how much this might increase our our costs project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and you can look into what kind of effect an increased cost is gon na have on our on our final numbers . project manager : yeah we we can certainly push for a more expensive product if that 's gon na be marketing : well , see i i see i i 'm an advocate to make this an exclusive product . you know , let 's let 's sell this wholesale for for fifty euros , sixty euros . let 's make this thing really exclusive , environmentally sensitive , uh high-tech design , uh ergonomics , all of this . just make this thing uh , yeah , the the the rolls royce of of remote controls . user interface : i i marketing : every home 's got to have it . if you do n't have one , hey what kind of remote do you have ? oh you 've got one of those , oh fantastic , i want one of those too . user interface : yeah . marketing : i just do n't have enough money right now . user interface : i just do n't know about that , because in order to do that in order to price it at that kind of level i think we 'd need to have every functionality that all the other competitors are offering like being able to operate , you know , the d_v_d_ player and , you know , the stereo system and all that . which is a pretty basic function that w we 've opted out of . and additionally we 're m maybe not supporting teletext um project manager : nah , i think we can say with certainty now that we are supporting teletext . marketing : user interface : but i do think there are some basic features that we do n't have that a lot of other remotes are going to have . marketing : yep , one one thing i do n't understand is h they 've they 've given us this package , okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : now uh in my opinion we need to give them a package back , okay . they say they say okay here you go . they gave us a fundament a foundation of of what they want , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : and and w it 's our place to kinda analyse and evaluate . i do n't think it 's our place to create their product for them , maybe it is . i do n't know what kind of role we have in this in the corporate ladder uh , but to me it 's like , okay , you have got your here 's our ideas , okay . and then let them look at those ideas and they say , yeah well , we can we can raise the price twenty percent , you know we like this idea , this idea no , but to me it 's it 's about a choice , do we follow their directives or do we make uh presentations back and and then and then discuss ? beca i i do not i do not see the market niche for the product that they 're handing f handing us right now . user interface : i don i i d marketing : i do n't see it . user interface : i have to disagree though . i think our market niche is basically people who need who have lost their remote or uh who 've broken their remote and do n't wan na send back to the manufacturer , they just wan na run out to the store and get a remote , and then they 're gon na look on the shelf and they 're gon na see ours is the nicest looking remote . it does what they need . these are n't i i think that it project manager : and and th to get to back to another point , sorry uh uh for cutting in but , i th i think it 's important to remember that that this remote has to work with multiple tvs , yeah , 'cause it 's selling on its own . user interface : right . project manager : it 's not going to be specifically for hitachi tvs or or whatever . marketing : right . user interface : right . marketing : no i understand that . project manager : so technologically , if i understand it , uh tvs tv remote 's working exactly the same way as video remotes and d_v_d_ remotes . all you need to do is train them to the individual one , all you need to do is is know the the f like some four-digit code . so saying that it works with all tvs is equivalent to saying that it 'll work with d_v_d_s and other things . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : nope , they 've identified the product as not working for anything but televisions . project manager : oh okay okay . industrial designer : yeah y y you you would n't marketing : they 've identified this product limita project manager : we have done this . marketing : that 's why i say i do n't i do n't see the market niche for this . industrial designer : the interface will be different . project manager : i see . marketing : if we if w if we were going to have a product that worked for d_v_d_s , v_c_r_s and everything , then i can see the market niche , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but we we 're only identified as going for televisions without teletext . user interface : right . marketing : and it 's like whoa we ha in my opinion we have to go with something that 's extremely exclusive to make this thing marketable , user interface : well here 's project manager : and i i 'd marketing : because who wants just a television remote ? project manager : mm sorry . user interface : right . we he well here 's my thing about that . marketing : i do n't . user interface : if you 're in the market for this ultimate remote , you 're not gon na go for just a television remote . if it ca n't control if it ca n't control your your d_v_d_ player and a al if y if you ca n't get that all-in-one ultimate remote , that just you can throw all your other remotes away . i 'm not gon na buy a d seventy-five euro remote . marketing : that 's right . i i i have a tendency to agree with you . i really do . project manager : so we really ca n't chase that . marketing : that 's why i say i quest i q i question the marketability of the product . i really question where we create the demand . user interface : so i think what we project manager : we 're really looking for something basic . user interface : so that 's what i 'm saying project manager : the the one thing that that that you said really struck a chord with me here in that we 're we 're carrying the corporate identity with the product , but we 're actually looking for a large profit at the same time where i 'd be inclined to go back to upper-level management and say like let 's just cut down our profit expected on this product because we are actually branding our company here . we 're selling more than just the product . we 're trying to get mind-share about uh real reaction to to the people who are gon na buy consumer electronics . we want people to eventually say , oh that 's that 's real reaction that 's a good m make . it 's reliable . and and we 're gon na make it we 're gon na win mind-share by uh either being a fantastic product industrial designer : project manager : or for it working , it just being good , reasonable-priced , and solid . so if we can make if we can put an emphasis here on it not breaking i think that 's in itself an extremely big thing . user interface : mm-hmm . i think that 's big . marketing : w okay if you if you drop the cost , now if you make if you make go to the other side of the cost scale , and you make it less expensive , then all of a sudden now we 're going into an a a new market area . so we can say low-cost uh uh um uh good design , beautiful , wa-da-da-da-da-da . industrial designer : good design . project manager : we only have a few minutes left . marketing : but what i 'm saying is right now we 're middle market . project manager : is twenty-five euros a mid-market price for a remote ? marketing : project manager : okay . user interface : i think so , yeah . marketing : for for multi for a multi-function remote , that 's a mid-market price . in a discount right now you can buy 'em on sale sometimes for about about uh eighteen , nineteen euro , project manager : okay . marketing : and that 's for the multi-functions , uh d_v_d_ , v_c_r_ , uh catch-alls . and and they have 'em in a little box in the middle , and and this is the consciousness that most people have about replacement remote controls . so to me , to market this a t only a television remote control we have to change consciousness . we have to have something that will change people 's thinking to identify this as advantageous , and i do n't know what that is . it 's got ta be low-cost or high-cost with with special design features . project manager : well i 'd be inclined to say , if we can make the design better than any comparable remote while reducing the cost , then that 's the way we really should play it . if we can take it down to you know fifteen rather than twenty-five and make a low profit-margin on it , user interface : yeah . project manager : but we 're really doing that to sell the brand . yep we have five minutes left . uh rather th uh to to to sell for real reactions . marketing : or my d project manager : and i can communicate this to to the more senior uh mm people within the company here to to get a reaction . user interface : what about um the idea that i had with the cradle ? how do you feel about that ? project manager : well how does everybody feel ? user interface : or how does everybody feel ? marketing : i mean i i well we g we 're talking about the other end now . project manager : i i think marketing : i like it . user interface : no , but i that 's the thing i i do n't think it 's necessarily the other end . marketing : i like the idea , but we have t we have to find out project manager : the other the o the problem with that in my mind i just think off-hand as a as a consumer , would i wan na buy that ? and i think maybe not because i 've got a remote and i 'll take it to different chairs , i 'll take it to different user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : i w i do n't wan na go over somewhere and put it down . it i if it is gon na be somewhere that you put it down then it needs to be at the side of your armchair , user interface : right . project manager : and that implies that there 's only one tv user . so it 's very good for some people but it 's not a like user interface : well it lasts it would last for several hours on its own power , but when you 're done with it you put it back in the cradle . project manager : but it it takes away the ease of use of the remote to a certain extent . you have to l sort of remember . user interface : well it mm-hmm . project manager : you have to d shift down the side of the couch to find it and put it back and user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : well . project manager : i d i d i d i think it it in my mind it does n't seem like something that oh i 'd really want uh because of that fact . but i i do n't know , that 's just my opinion . marketing : well , i think again it 's it we have a cost issue here . you know if we 're gon na go in this direction , to me we 're going to the other side of the cost range . are we gon na make this selling selling the cost as a high high-tech uh um environmentally sensitive whatever , or are we gon na go to the lower side of the range ? again i do n't see our market niche in the middle for our product yet . project manager : 'kay . marketing : i do n't see it yet . project manager : so what do we think maybe we should pedro , do you have any opinion on it ? industrial designer : uh we should keep it simple , mm medium-low cost mar um cost area and uh make it look good . marketing : w a question i have in in a 'cause i i i think i agree with you on , we got ta make it a box . the box is gon na sell it i think , the outside , the casing . project manager : really need to wrap up now . marketing : can can can we have multiple designs ? have a modern , have a traditional , have a you know , and so so instead of them all looking the same , people can have maybe four or five different designs they can choose from . i do n't know what that creates cost , or user interface : well the the problem with that is we may end up with a whole bunch of inventory of a of a poor design you know . so industrial designer : marketing : yep one over another . yeah , okay , i hear that . industrial designer : yeah , complicated but user interface : um but what we could do is some kind of well i mean yeah we we need to , i mean , have a few designs to look at and then come up with something that i think we all agree is , you know , the best fit . i think w what 's really important is it has to look good , it has to feel it has to feel good in your hand , project manager : yeah . user interface : it has to be durable , it has to a and i think it 's really important that it does n't look cheap . i think i think we have to make sure people look at it an and feel like it its like a quality remote . even though the cost may be low . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : what ab what ab what about a a remote that 's that does n't maybe look like a remote ? just an idea . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : just just okay 'cause i mean we all know what a remote looks like on the outside . they 're selling these things everywhere . maybe that could be part of our design exclusivity , is we make a remote that does n't even look like a remote it it opens like a telephone . user interface : or what if it looks like a pen ? marketing : does n't matter , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i 'm just jus i talking about some something to make this thing unique . user interface : a pointer ? marketing : it that 's the thing , i 'm gon na keep thumping on . user interface : yeah . marketing : i 'll sell whatever you guys design . user interface : yeah . marketing : i do n't have a problem selling a product , that 's not the issue . i give you ideas , you guys create the product . once you have the finished product i 'll find a way to sell it . do n't worry about it . i just give you these things now , because these are my thoughts and feelings . industrial designer : okay . user interface : just to touch on m my point one last time that i had brought up . um i really un unless you guys are die-hard against the fact that um it 's possible like it reduces the usability of the remote b and the fact that you ca n't lose it on your own , i think it still might be a good idea to investigate having like a power cradle . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . yeah . user interface : because i really think i in a certain sense it almost like for me i would want to have that just , because i know at the end of when i 'm done watching tv that when i 'm done , oh i better go find the remote and put it back where it belongs . maybe th th th that 's just some people that like that . project manager : i mean there 's al there 's also remote controls i remember that that worked uh , this has n't been done in a while i think , but th as a as a watch . user interface : a lot of people marketing : no no . user interface : as a watch ? project manager : yeah , there is remote control watches um , user interface : mm 'kay . project manager : but i think they 're a sorta eighties thing , so it might not be easy to market in it uh but the the technologies came along and it might be cheaper to make now . industrial designer : yeah they are not simple . project manager : those things may have been inexpensive for all i know . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : one thing i just thought about when you were saying that , is that the p our target market is gon na be someone who has lost or broken project manager : user interface : that 's what i was saying . marketing : we got ta stop ? project manager : got ta cut up . marketing : who 's lost or broken their their remote . so how many remotes do they wan na buy ? can we p can we sell them a remote that can maybe guarantee they will not need to buy another one ? user interface : exactly . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and so with with with this kind of system or locator or something , to to think about , how have people been been losing or breaking their remote ? user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : how does this happen ? project manager : the last remote you 'll ever buy . user interface : and also presumably they 've marketing : and and then and then design the product , maybe some component of the product that can identify this as the last one you 'll ever need to buy . project manager : well if if we 're going down that then we can we do n't need to go the user interface : exactly . project manager : it it strikes me that the locator feature might actually be uh quite expensive to make . user interface : yeah . project manager : whereas actually just putting it in a power cradle might not be too expensive at all because that 's just done with mobile phones user interface : true . project manager : you can just n we we have said we have actually similar products that we can take from and potentially cut costs there . user interface : right . yeah . the locator 'll definitely be more expensive . mm-hmm . project manager : um need to look into whether we can do that but uh i think we we have some m mobile phone-based products uh checking quickly our internet . we really need to finish up here . but uh marketing : uh we can make it in the shape of a coffee pot . project manager : yeah we have the the power-adaptor products . we sell power-adaptor products . so for example there 's nothing stopping us using that technology . marketing : it 's uh just it 's that i think it 's telling us to stop our meeting . project manager : yeah . marketing : so we have the c we probably have have on-line in our in our system , we have the ability to create this , we 're talking about . project manager : yeah i think so , marketing : a charging system . project manager : without it being too in fact we can cut costs through using the manufacturing that 's already gon na be in place here . user interface : right . marketing : if if we can create this we have probably five or six or seven really strong marketing characteristics . user interface : right . project manager : okay . user interface : i think one of the things that we can put right on the box is , never buy another battery . you know , something like that . project manager : 'kay . thanks guys . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about basic components and the cost . </s> user interface : that 's fine . okay so project manager : mm it 's enough . but uh click it on off ? user interface : so you all know me , i 'm the industrial designer . and we 've some basic components that um our remote is gon na need , just basically every remote 'll need 'em . industrial designer : user interface : we need some kinda of power d power source . um we have to decide on our our user interface , which is his department , but the in user interface is also a major component . um we need a programmable digital signal processor to um to take the input from the user and translate that into uh into electronic signal , which we pass to the infra-red l_e_d_ , which you aim at the television uh which and it receives that signal . you need a on-off switch um i do n't know how that got in there . and uh we also need to um have the if we want a universal remote we need to have encryption codes for the different makes of tvs . so we need to know all the different you know all the different signals and so that 'll require some memory as well . um so here 's just a basic layout of how how the remote would work . you ha the v the power source is in the upper right-hand corner there , and you can see that uh we have the user interface here which is connected to the chip which does all our signal processing , and then passes that signal on to the infra-red l_e_d_ and that signal is then emitted and received by the television at the photo-transistor . so those are the basic components that need to go into this and everything else is pretty much uh open to move around . marketing : now is would this be considered just a standard uh um user interface : i think any des marketing : this is not this is not cutting edge technology we 're talking here . we 're talking about existing technology . user interface : right i think marketing : nothing is being modified or upgraded or new discoveries . user interface : yeah this is just this is just a basic layout of ev of all the components that w w are gon na be absolutely necessary f to have a working remote . we can add things in like if we wanted some voice recognition , i mean that i mean that you can kinda say would would fall under the user interface and the digital signal processing chip . marketing : okay . okay . project manager : do we have an idea of costs of different components ? user interface : um well the most the most costly components are gon na be the chip and the uh th it could als basically the user interface and the casing are gon na be expensive as well . project manager : 'kay . user interface : um the l_e_d_ and the the transistors and everything else are you know they 're they 're pretty cheap . so depending on what we want our functionality to be , um the chip could be expensive or it could be cheap . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : um depending on the n amount of memory we need in there and stuff like that and h and h you know how much power . project manager : do we have any ballpark figures for that yet ? no . user interface : uh i do n't have any figures right now . project manager : 'kay . user interface : we uh we have to wait until we get to a more specific design phase for that . project manager : yeah . user interface : um but and i think a significant part of the cost could be the actual the actual casing itself and and you know the the b the buttons and things like that , i think . marketing : n okay . mm . mm the shell ? user interface : yeah . basically yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . user interface : so yeah . that 's all i have really . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about functional design and user interface design . </s> marketing : well uh what comes up for me is that if we 're gon na if we 're gon na be marketing a product that is going to be uh having no teletext , people are very comfortable with the idea of having teletext and using teletext , and so we 're not we 're gon na be a new product without something that people are very comfortable having right now . project manager : mm . mm . yep . marketing : so that 's , from a marketing perspective i i see i see a lack . and so we have to go , i think , in the other direction . what are we gon na have that makes this thing better than project manager : well tha that first point could uh also be an op opportunity because in seeing that teletext is becoming outdated , some sort remote control that can work with the internet there is the opportunity that 's presented , i guess . marketing : right . yeah . no , i i agree with you . project manager : okay . marketing : so what i 'm talking about is i see that one side we 're eliminating something so we have to come up with another side which is , what are we gon na be targeting our market uh that identifies our product as better than because it does n't have teletext it has ta-ta-ta-ta-ta . project manager : okay . marketing : so that 's that 's that was my reactions . project manager : yeah . but but we are sort of being dictated that this should only be for the television . marketing : yeah yeah . project manager : so we 're quite fixed . so we 're really probably , in terms of marketing , are looking for that 's uh that 's a cost winner rather than a fantastic new feature product . industrial designer : yeah bu but we we 're designing only the remote , project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : we not design the tv . so uh we 're gon na be removing the teletext out of any tv that we people use our remote with . marketing : yeah . 'kay . that 's right . industrial designer : so it 's kind of a stupid decision . marketing : i think we take with you . project manager : but there 's also the potential for mark there 's a market here for our lost teletext . user interface : right . project manager : for example someone that just goes to the shop that wants a replacement wants it as cheap as possible . twenty-five euros is the selling price , we really have to innovate here i guess . marketing : that 's what i 'm that 's what i 'm talking about is is that we have to find something that is gon na be very attractive about this product 'cause somebody , some people are gon na be hap unhappy 'cause it took they ca n't ac access their teletext . okay . 'cause we 're talking about eighty percent or ninety percent or ninety-five percent of the televisions out there are are teletext . project manager : k yeah . marketing : so so it 's it 's not that i 'm criticizing the product at all . it 's just when we eliminate that then what do we bring ? what are we bringing in to take the place of this , project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : and we have to d in my opinion we have to double up . industrial designer : marketing : if we lose one we need to bring two or three . industrial designer : this does n't work . so yeah function design . um you guys know me , pedro , and um what i found is we want to do fashion and i think , honestly , we should keep technology low and just simple basically and try to aim for design . if basically a case will will cost the same if it looks good or bad so we ma we have to make it look good . um something cute and small . the big chunky remotes are died in the eighties . so we should just go for something that people will like to actually look at . project manager : industrial designer : and um although mo most people will buy s televisions and everything for uh that have loads of loads of little functions and everything and they mostly end up using simple functions and little things and most the people wo n't wo n't get too mad of actually having to go the to the s to the television to , for instance , tune in their the stations . there 's no need to have that in the remote . so um um as for what i would recommend for uh the the interface design , and uh i will change the colours on the on the logo , but um we should go for the user-oriented device , so simple controls and good ergonomics . um and uh although i th i th i 'm still here recommending the teletext so i 'll remove that , i guess , but um we should go for the project manager : but i t i think what the the management recommendation was less that there 's a worry that teletext will become outdated rather than we should n't have it . so i i still think if it 's cheap enough functionality-wise to include , it really should be in there . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : because otherwise we 're just going to i mean even if it 's necessary or not , if you if you 're given the choice between a t a remote with teletext or without uh when it really if it i if it is n't more expensive for us to k make because as far as i understand it , it can be operated with the same set of buttons , yeah ? so it should be in there . user interface : right as far as industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i it 's just uh the cost of an extra button . i mean software-wise there 's really no difference . project manager : yeah . okay . is n't user interface : i think . marketing : i have maybe a silly question . i in the very beginning it said with the with the advent of computers there 's gon na be the it 's gon na be out-moded teletext . i i do n't understand how those two things are connected . how does how does computers and teletext h how why is one eliminating the need of the other ? i do n't understand that . project manager : well maybe what we 're getting into here is the the idea of uh internet through the tv for example . so that might play on what we can do . industrial designer : yeah the they 're basically aiming at saying that you would use you know a couple of years ago teletext to be the easiest way to check like for uh uh the scheduling and the next programme and stuff like that user interface : scheduling . um to find out what what you 're watching even if there 's commercials you know . industrial designer : and now yeah marketing : okay . industrial designer : and now you can c look it over internet . but i still think teletext is way more convenient until until we have the same commodities . user interface : i think i ha i agree . marketing : yeah 'cause , yeah , i just i do n't see the cross-over between computers and television . i mean i do see the cross-over in some sense , industrial designer : yeah , but it 's not happen yet . yeah . marketing : but but but but with the the remote is is used for television , okay . user interface : well for me project manager : well you have digital tv still already . user interface : yeah . marketing : so so if we make the cross-over and we 're gon na view television on computers then we 're then we 're losing the the necessity of the remote . s user interface : unless you have a project manager : well there there is a for example on digital tv systems you have you can press a button and you can buy things in adverts , user interface : yeah . project manager : and you can uh you can view through a catalogue for example . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : a a family member of mine has got a system where you just um you can yeah , and there 's other features for example on other systems where you can pause live tv and things like that . they 're just features from the internet uh from computers are are coming into the tv sort of under the covers , but you still use it through a teletext . marketing : okay . project manager : so now the things to think here are that that there 's gon na be more functionality , potentially that we can handle . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah but we we do n't we 're not aiming a command for that . that 's the thing . and all of those require the other commands with more complexity and more software and user interface : i think a lot of that 's proprietary anyways . you 're not gon na be able to , you , like command a tivo with our remote . i do n't think . project manager : mm . but still there there 's an opportunity . if if it 's , for example , a trainable one then we 're just simply having like an up , down , left , right , an okay button or something like that might might do as well in future proofing it . industrial designer : yeah but we would increase the price to try to make it a trainable one , so project manager : mm . okay . industrial designer : well i dunno . one way the other teletext was there but i guess we can remove it or , you know , make two separate interface designs . user interface : i think if it 's possible you should try to you know have a talk with management about that . just you know industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah i do n't i do n't see the logic . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i i do n't see the logic in elimination of teletext , i just i i project manager : yeah , and neither do i in fact . marketing : but i 'm not a tech-mind either . i just do n't see the cross-over between computers and and and project manager : bu uh . marketing : 'cause we are designing something for a television , okay . industrial designer : project manager : i 'll communicate that back to those guys there a a and th the message really we wan na be sending to them is that , although teletext may become outdated w there 's no l logic in not having it in there anyway i if it does n't affect the price . user interface : right it 's just not industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it 's kind of along the s lines of environmentally sensitive , and it may even fit into ergonomics , and even kind of address the issue of losing losing the remote , what we were saying it 's a common issue . um what we can do is , well you know that batteries throwing a aw remotes run through batteries like crazy . right ? marketing : solar . project manager : yeah . user interface : and s for some people yeah . well maybe not a solar remote but instead what about if we had like a power cradle ? marketing : but solar user interface : like a a cradle that is is there to hold the remote when you 're not using it , so you 'll always know where the remote is 'cause you have to put it back there to charge the remote , and we can , instead of having instead of having , you know , replaceable batteries we 'll just have a power cell that stays there for the life of the remote . you never have to get go through the go through uh all these different batteries . and also you can i i think it 's a good opportunity for the user design or for not just for the user design , but also for the just for the look and feel of the remote as as a whole . you know you could have some kind of neat little , you know , a sexy design for d a cradle and the remote itself . marketing : blah , i like it . i like the idea , but we 're talking about in cost is gon na probably double . user interface : it w it would increase the cost . marketing : but boy , we can sell this thing , because there 's no batteries , it 's environmentally sensitive , i we can identify it as a safer product in some form . user interface : and you could page the remote if you lose it . maybe there 's a button on the cradle . marketing : yep , that 's right . i really see project manager : now the the question is can we make this for less than twelve-fifty per ? marketing : but the cost i no no . no no , we have t we have to change the end cost . project manager : we we well do we necessarily have to change the end cost because uh can we dl can we do that without uh changing it twelve-fifty per product , if we basically can sell more based on this ? marketing : there 's uh i mean i do n't see it anyway . yeah , that 's gon na be up to these guys . i my reaction is no , but user interface : what i can do is i can d look into ho well pedro and i can look into how much this might increase our our costs project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and you can look into what kind of effect an increased cost is gon na have on our on our final numbers . project manager : yeah we we can certainly push for a more expensive product if that 's gon na be marketing : well , see i i see i i 'm an advocate to make this an exclusive product . you know , let 's let 's sell this wholesale for for fifty euros , sixty euros . let 's make this thing really exclusive , environmentally sensitive , uh high-tech design , uh ergonomics , all of this . just make this thing uh , yeah , the the the rolls royce of of remote controls . user interface : i i marketing : every home 's got to have it . if you do n't have one , hey what kind of remote do you have ? oh you 've got one of those , oh fantastic , i want one of those too . user interface : yeah . marketing : i just do n't have enough money right now . user interface : i just do n't know about that , because in order to do that in order to price it at that kind of level i think we 'd need to have every functionality that all the other competitors are offering like being able to operate , you know , the d_v_d_ player and , you know , the stereo system and all that . which is a pretty basic function that w we 've opted out of . and additionally we 're m maybe not supporting teletext um project manager : nah , i think we can say with certainty now that we are supporting teletext . marketing : user interface : but i do think there are some basic features that we do n't have that a lot of other remotes are going to have . marketing : yep , one one thing i do n't understand is h they 've they 've given us this package , okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : now uh in my opinion we need to give them a package back , okay . they say they say okay here you go . they gave us a fundament a foundation of of what they want , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : and and w it 's our place to kinda analyse and evaluate . i do n't think it 's our place to create their product for them , maybe it is . i do n't know what kind of role we have in this in the corporate ladder uh , but to me it 's like , okay , you have got your here 's our ideas , okay . and then let them look at those ideas and they say , yeah well , we can we can raise the price twenty percent , you know we like this idea , this idea no , but to me it 's it 's about a choice , do we follow their directives or do we make uh presentations back and and then and then discuss ? beca i i do not i do not see the market niche for the product that they 're handing f handing us right now . user interface : i don i i d marketing : i do n't see it . user interface : i have to disagree though . i think our market niche is basically people who need who have lost their remote or uh who 've broken their remote and do n't wan na send back to the manufacturer , they just wan na run out to the store and get a remote , and then they 're gon na look on the shelf and they 're gon na see ours is the nicest looking remote . it does what they need . these are n't i i think that it project manager : and and th to get to back to another point , sorry uh uh for cutting in but , i th i think it 's important to remember that that this remote has to work with multiple tvs , yeah , 'cause it 's selling on its own . user interface : right . project manager : it 's not going to be specifically for hitachi tvs or or whatever . marketing : right . user interface : right . marketing : no i understand that . project manager : so technologically , if i understand it , uh tvs tv remote 's working exactly the same way as video remotes and d_v_d_ remotes . all you need to do is train them to the individual one , all you need to do is is know the the f like some four-digit code . so saying that it works with all tvs is equivalent to saying that it 'll work with d_v_d_s and other things . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : nope , they 've identified the product as not working for anything but televisions . project manager : oh okay okay . industrial designer : yeah y y you you would n't marketing : they 've identified this product limita project manager : we have done this . marketing : that 's why i say i do n't i do n't see the market niche for this . industrial designer : the interface will be different . project manager : i see . marketing : if we if w if we were going to have a product that worked for d_v_d_s , v_c_r_s and everything , then i can see the market niche , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but we we 're only identified as going for televisions without teletext . user interface : right . marketing : and it 's like whoa we ha in my opinion we have to go with something that 's extremely exclusive to make this thing marketable , user interface : well here 's project manager : and i i 'd marketing : because who wants just a television remote ? project manager : mm sorry . user interface : right . we he well here 's my thing about that . marketing : i do n't . user interface : if you 're in the market for this ultimate remote , you 're not gon na go for just a television remote . if it ca n't control if it ca n't control your your d_v_d_ player and a al if y if you ca n't get that all-in-one ultimate remote , that just you can throw all your other remotes away . i 'm not gon na buy a d seventy-five euro remote . marketing : that 's right . i i i have a tendency to agree with you . i really do . project manager : so we really ca n't chase that . marketing : that 's why i say i quest i q i question the marketability of the product . i really question where we create the demand . user interface : so i think what we project manager : we 're really looking for something basic . </s>
<s> what did marketing think of the proposal of eliminating teletext technology from their product ? </s> marketing : well uh what comes up for me is that if we 're gon na if we 're gon na be marketing a product that is going to be uh having no teletext , people are very comfortable with the idea of having teletext and using teletext , and so we 're not we 're gon na be a new product without something that people are very comfortable having right now . project manager : mm . mm . yep . marketing : so that 's , from a marketing perspective i i see i see a lack . and so we have to go , i think , in the other direction . what are we gon na have that makes this thing better than project manager : well tha that first point could uh also be an op opportunity because in seeing that teletext is becoming outdated , some sort remote control that can work with the internet there is the opportunity that 's presented , i guess . marketing : right . yeah . no , i i agree with you . project manager : okay . marketing : so what i 'm talking about is i see that one side we 're eliminating something so we have to come up with another side which is , what are we gon na be targeting our market uh that identifies our product as better than because it does n't have teletext it has ta-ta-ta-ta-ta . project manager : okay . marketing : so that 's that 's that was my reactions . project manager : yeah . but but we are sort of being dictated that this should only be for the television . marketing : yeah yeah . project manager : so we 're quite fixed . so we 're really probably , in terms of marketing , are looking for that 's uh that 's a cost winner rather than a fantastic new feature product . industrial designer : yeah bu but we we 're designing only the remote , project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : we not design the tv . so uh we 're gon na be removing the teletext out of any tv that we people use our remote with . marketing : yeah . 'kay . that 's right . industrial designer : so it 's kind of a stupid decision . marketing : i think we take with you . project manager : but there 's also the potential for mark there 's a market here for our lost teletext . user interface : right . project manager : for example someone that just goes to the shop that wants a replacement wants it as cheap as possible . twenty-five euros is the selling price , we really have to innovate here i guess . marketing : that 's what i 'm that 's what i 'm talking about is is that we have to find something that is gon na be very attractive about this product 'cause somebody , some people are gon na be hap unhappy 'cause it took they ca n't ac access their teletext . okay . 'cause we 're talking about eighty percent or ninety percent or ninety-five percent of the televisions out there are are teletext . project manager : k yeah . marketing : so so it 's it 's not that i 'm criticizing the product at all . it 's just when we eliminate that then what do we bring ? what are we bringing in to take the place of this , project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : and we have to d in my opinion we have to double up . industrial designer : marketing : if we lose one we need to bring two or three . i have maybe a silly question . i in the very beginning it said with the with the advent of computers there 's gon na be the it 's gon na be out-moded teletext . i i do n't understand how those two things are connected . how does how does computers and teletext h how why is one eliminating the need of the other ? i do n't understand that . project manager : well maybe what we 're getting into here is the the idea of uh internet through the tv for example . so that might play on what we can do . industrial designer : yeah the they 're basically aiming at saying that you would use you know a couple of years ago teletext to be the easiest way to check like for uh uh the scheduling and the next programme and stuff like that user interface : scheduling . um to find out what what you 're watching even if there 's commercials you know . industrial designer : and now yeah marketing : okay . industrial designer : and now you can c look it over internet . but i still think teletext is way more convenient until until we have the same commodities . user interface : i think i ha i agree . marketing : yeah 'cause , yeah , i just i do n't see the cross-over between computers and television . i mean i do see the cross-over in some sense , industrial designer : yeah , but it 's not happen yet . yeah . marketing : but but but but with the the remote is is used for television , okay . user interface : well for me project manager : well you have digital tv still already . user interface : yeah . marketing : so so if we make the cross-over and we 're gon na view television on computers then we 're then we 're losing the the necessity of the remote . s user interface : unless you have a project manager : well there there is a for example on digital tv systems you have you can press a button and you can buy things in adverts , user interface : yeah . project manager : and you can uh you can view through a catalogue for example . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : a a family member of mine has got a system where you just um you can yeah , and there 's other features for example on other systems where you can pause live tv and things like that . they 're just features from the internet uh from computers are are coming into the tv sort of under the covers , but you still use it through a teletext . </s>
<s> what did user interface recommend to do when discussing the functional design and why ? </s> user interface : and it 's kind of along the s lines of environmentally sensitive , and it may even fit into ergonomics , and even kind of address the issue of losing losing the remote , what we were saying it 's a common issue . um what we can do is , well you know that batteries throwing a aw remotes run through batteries like crazy . right ? marketing : solar . project manager : yeah . user interface : and s for some people yeah . well maybe not a solar remote but instead what about if we had like a power cradle ? marketing : but solar user interface : like a a cradle that is is there to hold the remote when you 're not using it , so you 'll always know where the remote is 'cause you have to put it back there to charge the remote , and we can , instead of having instead of having , you know , replaceable batteries we 'll just have a power cell that stays there for the life of the remote . you never have to get go through the go through uh all these different batteries . and also you can i i think it 's a good opportunity for the user design or for not just for the user design , but also for the just for the look and feel of the remote as as a whole . you know you could have some kind of neat little , you know , a sexy design for d a cradle and the remote itself . marketing : blah , i like it . i like the idea , but we 're talking about in cost is gon na probably double . user interface : it w it would increase the cost . marketing : but boy , we can sell this thing , because there 's no batteries , it 's environmentally sensitive , i we can identify it as a safer product in some form . user interface : and you could page the remote if you lose it . maybe there 's a button on the cradle . marketing : yep , that 's right . i really see project manager : now the the question is can we make this for less than twelve-fifty per ? marketing : but the cost i no no . no no , we have t we have to change the end cost . project manager : we we well do we necessarily have to change the end cost because uh can we dl can we do that without uh changing it twelve-fifty per product , if we basically can sell more based on this ? marketing : there 's uh i mean i do n't see it anyway . yeah , that 's gon na be up to these guys . i my reaction is no , but user interface : what i can do is i can d look into ho well pedro and i can look into how much this might increase our our costs project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and you can look into what kind of effect an increased cost is gon na have on our on our final numbers . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about marketing positioning of the product . </s> marketing : so so w we ca n't go and pump a whole bunch of technology into this thing project manager : yeah . marketing : because all of a sudden we are gon na have cost overruns . so if we drop if we are gon na choose to drop teletext , again what are we adding to the product that makes it marketable ? project manager : hmm . so if we 're keeping it basic we 're loo loo what we 're looking to sell it basically is it 's uh just being very easy to use , looking exceptionally good , that sort of thing . 'cause we really do n't have anything else there , do we ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i do n't i do n't see it , and to me if i 'm gon na market a product for b for beauty for for design i 'm gon na i 'm gon na try to market it at a much higher price . i need to make it special with a high price tag . i do n't want to make it economically uh g uh competitive . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i want i want to market it as exclusive . so i would market this product it at eighty-nine euros and come up with some really beautiful exterior design or something th but but i do n't think we have that flexibility . project manager : but i if design if design is cheap and functionality is basic , then twenty-five euros is probably a high price for a commoner garden stan standard tv so the place uh remote the then the place we 're going to justify that cost is through through design through making it a a sleek elegant high-priced basic remote . does that make sense , huh ? marketing : no i no i i understand what you say , but what i 'm what i 'm , okay we probably need to move along , project manager : yeah we probably should . marketing : but my my concern is trying to find a marketing niche for this product , project manager : we we 're doing alright for time . marketing : and if i 'm coming in with a with with twenty-five euros , which is mid-market price , um then what am i going to give these people for this ? project manager : yeah . marketing : so that 's just my question , but we can keep talking . project manager : okay . sorry that kinda cut into you there . industrial designer : no just i i would i would advocate for continuing teletext and those would be the basic commands . um as for , you know , the the case design uh maybe i 'll come up with more concrete ideas . right now it 's just the idea of simplicity and slickness , cute and small um user interface : right . i 'm just thinking you know with all these universal remotes that are out there , how many people how many people actually use every feature that ar you know i like these trainable remotes and things like that , where , you know , it 's just so confusing to do to use all these functions . where i think the largest portion of the market is just gon na you know they lost their tv remote , they need another one that 'll work with their tv . they want something that looks nice , that that that is n't gon na break when they drop it , that you know that maybe it 's it 's ergonomic , it feels good in your hand , something like that . i think that 's gon na be where you 're gon na find the biggest , you know , market share . project manager : so we are looking for something that looks good and just works , rather than looking for any special features . is that user interface : i think the more bells and whistles we add , it 's just gon na cut into our into our profits . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because i think as we as we add costs for things like uh for like if we add the voice recognition and things like that , i think you know what percentage of the of the um of the market is actually gon na use that ? maybe five percent , you know , industrial designer : yeah mm . project manager : but we can talk a little bit more potentially in the marketing marketing presentation about this . user interface : and how much right . yeah okay . project manager : be a good idea . user interface : i 'm sorry . project manager : uh sorry , i did n't mean to cut in . marketing : yeah . user interface : sorry boss . project manager : i 'm not the boss . okay . marketing : oh p pedro , i just want to say quickly i i would really like it when you can come up with some more bells and whistles , eh . industrial designer : marketing : you know sell uh things come to my mind is uh uh something that 's uh um voice-activated . i know we 're getting into some , i hope , some big money on this thing , but project manager : i think that 's probably a question more for for this guy here , yeah . marketing : is that for over here ? user interface : yeah . well it 's kinda both of us . marketing : okay , alright . project manager : is it ? user interface : us us user interface . project manager : okay . marketing : that 's industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause uh and i think of voice-activated i think of of how many times i 've i 've lost my my remote and i ca n't find it . so some way that i can i can find my remote by clapping my hands or something user interface : mm-hmm . i was thinking about that . then your lights would go off , though . marketing : uh and and so so um industrial designer : marketing : but this 's just something . i 'm trying to find some bells and whistles 'cause when they talk about tel taking out teletext , it 's like , what are we gon na put in ? what makes this thing attractive ? and it 's only for televisions . so we everyth our our competition out there has got these these multiple adaptors where they can use 'em for their v_c_r_s , their d_v_d_s , their their televisions and we 're coming out with one remote for television only . and so to me we have to make this a really special product user interface : yeah . marketing : i i i do n't s i really have to say i do n't see the market niche for this product . at this price i do n't see it yet . i 'm i i go along with this , because this is what we 're given to try to market , but i i do n't see the market niche for this product without without some really sort of something really special to identify it as as unique in the market . industrial designer : but we th that should be design . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that should be the design basically . user interface : right . industrial designer : i think technology we 'd we we 're not in the price range to do it . we do n't have the money to do it towards t f technology so we should we should aim at design . marketing : okay . have to do you have to do it in the box ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : okay well , so so that 's up to you then to to make this box in something that 's absolutely extraordinary . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : maybe make it in the form of a gun . we can sell it in united states . project manager : industrial designer : project manager : i have a question uh for you . does any of the um the features that pedro 's spoken about here have any implications we might not have thought about on in terms of just pure functionality ? in terms of making it work or the cost of that or user interface : i do n't i think all these things are pretty standard . i think we 'll be okay . project manager : okay . 'kay . cheers . onto participant four . marketing : well you know for marketing f marketing for me is uh and uh how do i go here ? okay . user interface : mm you can just click . marketing : go go . user interface : no no no marketing : is that right ? user interface : you just get off that . you just click anywhere . marketing : ah-ha . yeah , what for me is it um i d i do n't know what i 'm marketing right now , okay , 'til you spoke and when i wrote this , i do n't know what i 'm marketing . i just know that i i was identified as a a we identified ourselves as a as a developer , as a manufacturer , and as a as a um distributor t to other wholesalers . and so the th the twenty-five euros that we 've identified as the sale price is a wholesale price rather than a retail price . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : that 's what we decided here . um so what i did is i i decided that that this this needs to be a product in a in a sense can market itself . so what we 've identified here as our main marketing stratagem is is in design . we 're making the most beautiful attractive uh whatever we decide it is . so that means we have about seven more minutes or ten minutes left . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um so i would like to have a product that that we can sell easily . so i say inspiration , so having something beauty , something attractive , uh something that in a sense will sell itself . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : uh innovation i think fits into what we 're talking about here with design . uh cutting edge technology , i do n't think we 're gon na have that , these were ideas i was putting together , um unless we come up with some new age product a as far as the casing is concerned . i i wan na make this thing something that i can identify as special in some way , so maybe we can have some i i talked about environmentally sensitive , uh maybe we have a product that can be identified in some way as advantageous in a home . i do n't know . these are just thoughts . uh i wanted to talk about uh who we are as a as a corporation , that we 're new , we 're aggressive , we 're competitive , we 're we 're trying to provide a product from a new perspective rather than from an old corporate line . so to me it 's about selling d uh our identity our corporate identity along with the product . um what i found is that the projected costs are competitive . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : uh we 're kind of in the middle of the market , but what i 'm seeing is that the market is ready for i i identified new technology , but again , because what i see is budget restrictions and limitations , i do n't know that we can bring any new technology into this thing . if if we could have a technological something user interface : i have an idea . </s>
<s> summarize the opinion of user interface about marketing positioning of the product . </s> user interface : right . i 'm just thinking you know with all these universal remotes that are out there , how many people how many people actually use every feature that ar you know i like these trainable remotes and things like that , where , you know , it 's just so confusing to do to use all these functions . where i think the largest portion of the market is just gon na you know they lost their tv remote , they need another one that 'll work with their tv . they want something that looks nice , that that that is n't gon na break when they drop it , that you know that maybe it 's it 's ergonomic , it feels good in your hand , something like that . i think that 's gon na be where you 're gon na find the biggest , you know , market share . project manager : so we are looking for something that looks good and just works , rather than looking for any special features . is that user interface : i think the more bells and whistles we add , it 's just gon na cut into our into our profits . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because i think as we as we add costs for things like uh for like if we add the voice recognition and things like that , i think you know what percentage of the of the um of the market is actually gon na use that ? maybe five percent , you know , industrial designer : yeah mm . project manager : but we can talk a little bit more potentially in the marketing marketing presentation about this . user interface : and how much right . yeah okay . project manager : be a good idea . user interface : i 'm sorry . project manager : uh sorry , i did n't mean to cut in . marketing : yeah . user interface : sorry boss . </s>
<s> what was marketing 's opinion on marketing positioning of the product ? </s> marketing : so so w we ca n't go and pump a whole bunch of technology into this thing project manager : yeah . marketing : because all of a sudden we are gon na have cost overruns . so if we drop if we are gon na choose to drop teletext , again what are we adding to the product that makes it marketable ? project manager : hmm . so if we 're keeping it basic we 're loo loo what we 're looking to sell it basically is it 's uh just being very easy to use , looking exceptionally good , that sort of thing . 'cause we really do n't have anything else there , do we ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i do n't i do n't see it , and to me if i 'm gon na market a product for b for beauty for for design i 'm gon na i 'm gon na try to market it at a much higher price . i need to make it special with a high price tag . i do n't want to make it economically uh g uh competitive . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i want i want to market it as exclusive . so i would market this product it at eighty-nine euros and come up with some really beautiful exterior design or something th but but i do n't think we have that flexibility . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : because otherwise we 're just going to i mean even if it 's necessary or not , if you if you 're given the choice between a t a remote with teletext or without uh when it really if it i if it is n't more expensive for us to k make because as far as i understand it , it can be operated with the same set of buttons , yeah ? so it should be in there . user interface : right as far as industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i it 's just uh the cost of an extra button . i mean software-wise there 's really no difference . project manager : yeah . okay . is n't user interface : i think . marketing : i have maybe a silly question . i in the very beginning it said with the with the advent of computers there 's gon na be the it 's gon na be out-moded teletext . i i do n't understand how those two things are connected . how does how does computers and teletext h how why is one eliminating the need of the other ? i do n't understand that . project manager : well maybe what we 're getting into here is the the idea of uh internet through the tv for example . so that might play on what we can do . industrial designer : yeah the they 're basically aiming at saying that you would use you know a couple of years ago teletext to be the easiest way to check like for uh uh the scheduling and the next programme and stuff like that user interface : scheduling . um to find out what what you 're watching even if there 's commercials you know . industrial designer : and now yeah marketing : okay . industrial designer : and now you can c look it over internet . but i still think teletext is way more convenient until until we have the same commodities . user interface : i think i ha i agree . marketing : yeah 'cause , yeah , i just i do n't see the cross-over between computers and television . i mean i do see the cross-over in some sense , industrial designer : yeah , but it 's not happen yet . yeah . marketing : but but but but with the the remote is is used for television , okay . user interface : well for me project manager : well you have digital tv still already . user interface : yeah . marketing : so so if we make the cross-over and we 're gon na view television on computers then we 're then we 're losing the the necessity of the remote . s user interface : unless you have a project manager : well there there is a for example on digital tv systems you have you can press a button and you can buy things in adverts , user interface : yeah . project manager : and you can uh you can view through a catalogue for example . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : a a family member of mine has got a system where you just um you can yeah , and there 's other features for example on other systems where you can pause live tv and things like that . they 're just features from the internet uh from computers are are coming into the tv sort of under the covers , but you still use it through a teletext . marketing : okay . project manager : so now the things to think here are that that there 's gon na be more functionality , potentially that we can handle . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah but we we do n't we 're not aiming a command for that . that 's the thing . and all of those require the other commands with more complexity and more software and user interface : i think a lot of that 's proprietary anyways . you 're not gon na be able to , you , like command a tivo with our remote . i do n't think . project manager : mm . but still there there 's an opportunity . if if it 's , for example , a trainable one then we 're just simply having like an up , down , left , right , an okay button or something like that might might do as well in future proofing it . industrial designer : yeah but we would increase the price to try to make it a trainable one , so project manager : mm . okay . industrial designer : well i dunno . one way the other teletext was there but i guess we can remove it or , you know , make two separate interface designs . user interface : i think if it 's possible you should try to you know have a talk with management about that . just you know industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah i do n't i do n't see the logic . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i i do n't see the logic in elimination of teletext , i just i i project manager : yeah , and neither do i in fact . marketing : but i 'm not a tech-mind either . i just do n't see the cross-over between computers and and and project manager : bu uh . marketing : 'cause we are designing something for a television , okay . industrial designer : project manager : i 'll communicate that back to those guys there a a and th the message really we wan na be sending to them is that , although teletext may become outdated w there 's no l logic in not having it in there anyway i if it does n't affect the price . user interface : right it 's just not industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um but i i think what they 're pushing us towards here is in terms of thinking of ways to future-proof our system for future systems that have something else other than teletext maybe . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we are selling it to an existing market . project manager : i dunno i 'm industrial designer : yeah but we 're not putting some there 's no no putting anything in in the place of teletext . marketing : that 's project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : yeah , industrial designer : that 's the problem . marketing : and and , yeah , and and we 're also marketing a product . it 's what i 'm seeing is a is a mid-range cost product . so so w we ca n't go and pump a whole bunch of technology into this thing project manager : yeah . marketing : because all of a sudden we are gon na have cost overruns . so if we drop if we are gon na choose to drop teletext , again what are we adding to the product that makes it marketable ? project manager : hmm . so if we 're keeping it basic we 're loo loo what we 're looking to sell it basically is it 's uh just being very easy to use , looking exceptionally good , that sort of thing . 'cause we really do n't have anything else there , do we ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i do n't i do n't see it , and to me if i 'm gon na market a product for b for beauty for for design i 'm gon na i 'm gon na try to market it at a much higher price . i need to make it special with a high price tag . i do n't want to make it economically uh g uh competitive . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i want i want to market it as exclusive . so i would market this product it at eighty-nine euros and come up with some really beautiful exterior design or something th but but i do n't think we have that flexibility . project manager : but i if design if design is cheap and functionality is basic , then twenty-five euros is probably a high price for a commoner garden stan standard tv so the place uh remote the then the place we 're going to justify that cost is through through design through making it a a sleek elegant high-priced basic remote . does that make sense , huh ? marketing : no i no i i understand what you say , but what i 'm what i 'm , okay we probably need to move along , project manager : yeah we probably should . marketing : but my my concern is trying to find a marketing niche for this product , project manager : we we 're doing alright for time . marketing : and if i 'm coming in with a with with twenty-five euros , which is mid-market price , um then what am i going to give these people for this ? project manager : yeah . marketing : so that 's just my question , but we can keep talking . project manager : okay . sorry that kinda cut into you there . industrial designer : no just i i would i would advocate for continuing teletext and those would be the basic commands . um as for , you know , the the case design uh maybe i 'll come up with more concrete ideas . right now it 's just the idea of simplicity and slickness , cute and small um user interface : right . i 'm just thinking you know with all these universal remotes that are out there , how many people how many people actually use every feature that ar you know i like these trainable remotes and things like that , where , you know , it 's just so confusing to do to use all these functions . where i think the largest portion of the market is just gon na you know they lost their tv remote , they need another one that 'll work with their tv . they want something that looks nice , that that that is n't gon na break when they drop it , that you know that maybe it 's it 's ergonomic , it feels good in your hand , something like that . i think that 's gon na be where you 're gon na find the biggest , you know , market share . project manager : so we are looking for something that looks good and just works , rather than looking for any special features . is that user interface : i think the more bells and whistles we add , it 's just gon na cut into our into our profits . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because i think as we as we add costs for things like uh for like if we add the voice recognition and things like that , i think you know what percentage of the of the um of the market is actually gon na use that ? maybe five percent , you know , industrial designer : yeah mm . project manager : but we can talk a little bit more potentially in the marketing marketing presentation about this . user interface : and how much right . yeah okay . project manager : be a good idea . user interface : i 'm sorry . project manager : uh sorry , i did n't mean to cut in . marketing : yeah . user interface : sorry boss . project manager : i 'm not the boss . okay . marketing : oh p pedro , i just want to say quickly i i would really like it when you can come up with some more bells and whistles , eh . industrial designer : marketing : you know sell uh things come to my mind is uh uh something that 's uh um voice-activated . i know we 're getting into some , i hope , some big money on this thing , but project manager : i think that 's probably a question more for for this guy here , yeah . marketing : is that for over here ? user interface : yeah . well it 's kinda both of us . marketing : okay , alright . project manager : is it ? user interface : us us user interface . project manager : okay . marketing : that 's industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause uh and i think of voice-activated i think of of how many times i 've i 've lost my my remote and i ca n't find it . so some way that i can i can find my remote by clapping my hands or something user interface : mm-hmm . i was thinking about that . then your lights would go off , though . marketing : uh and and so so um industrial designer : marketing : but this 's just something . i 'm trying to find some bells and whistles 'cause when they talk about tel taking out teletext , it 's like , what are we gon na put in ? what makes this thing attractive ? and it 's only for televisions . so we everyth our our competition out there has got these these multiple adaptors where they can use 'em for their v_c_r_s , their d_v_d_s , their their televisions and we 're coming out with one remote for television only . and so to me we have to make this a really special product user interface : yeah . marketing : i i i do n't s i really have to say i do n't see the market niche for this product . at this price i do n't see it yet . i 'm i i go along with this , because this is what we 're given to try to market , but i i do n't see the market niche for this product without without some really sort of something really special to identify it as as unique in the market . industrial designer : but we th that should be design . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that should be the design basically . user interface : right . industrial designer : i think technology we 'd we we 're not in the price range to do it . we do n't have the money to do it towards t f technology so we should we should aim at design . marketing : okay . have to do you have to do it in the box ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : okay well , so so that 's up to you then to to make this box in something that 's absolutely extraordinary . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : maybe make it in the form of a gun . we can sell it in united states . project manager : industrial designer : project manager : i have a question uh for you . does any of the um the features that pedro 's spoken about here have any implications we might not have thought about on in terms of just pure functionality ? in terms of making it work or the cost of that or user interface : i do n't i think all these things are pretty standard . i think we 'll be okay . project manager : okay . 'kay . cheers . onto participant four . marketing : well you know for marketing f marketing for me is uh and uh how do i go here ? okay . user interface : mm you can just click . marketing : go go . user interface : no no no marketing : is that right ? user interface : you just get off that . you just click anywhere . marketing : ah-ha . yeah , what for me is it um i d i do n't know what i 'm marketing right now , okay , 'til you spoke and when i wrote this , i do n't know what i 'm marketing . i just know that i i was identified as a a we identified ourselves as a as a developer , as a manufacturer , and as a as a um distributor t to other wholesalers . and so the th the twenty-five euros that we 've identified as the sale price is a wholesale price rather than a retail price . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : that 's what we decided here . um so what i did is i i decided that that this this needs to be a product in a in a sense can market itself . so what we 've identified here as our main marketing stratagem is is in design . we 're making the most beautiful attractive uh whatever we decide it is . so that means we have about seven more minutes or ten minutes left . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um so i would like to have a product that that we can sell easily . so i say inspiration , so having something beauty , something attractive , uh something that in a sense will sell itself . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : uh innovation i think fits into what we 're talking about here with design . uh cutting edge technology , i do n't think we 're gon na have that , these were ideas i was putting together , um unless we come up with some new age product a as far as the casing is concerned . i i wan na make this thing something that i can identify as special in some way , so maybe we can have some i i talked about environmentally sensitive , uh maybe we have a product that can be identified in some way as advantageous in a home . i do n't know . these are just thoughts . uh i wanted to talk about uh who we are as a as a corporation , that we 're new , we 're aggressive , we 're competitive , we 're we 're trying to provide a product from a new perspective rather than from an old corporate line . so to me it 's about selling d uh our identity our corporate identity along with the product . um what i found is that the projected costs are competitive . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : uh we 're kind of in the middle of the market , but what i 'm seeing is that the market is ready for i i identified new technology , but again , because what i see is budget restrictions and limitations , i do n't know that we can bring any new technology into this thing . if if we could have a technological something user interface : i have an idea . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : i call this meeting to order . welcome to the 14thmeeting of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . this will be a hybrid meeting . some members will be participating via video conference and some will be participating in person . in order to ensure that those joining the meeting via video conference can be seen and heard by those in the chamber , two screens have been set up on either side of the speaker 's chair , and members in the chamber can listen to the floor audio or to interpretation using their earpiece at their desk . before speaking , please wait until i recognize you by name , and please direct your remarks through the chair . for those joining via video conference , i would like to remind you to leave your mike on mute when you are not speaking . also , please note that if you want to speak in english , you should be on the english channel . if you want to speak french , you should be on the french channel . should you wish to alternate between the two languages , you should change the channel to the language that you are speaking each time you switch languages . should members participating by video conference need to request the floor outside their designated speaking times , they should activate their mic and state that they have a point of order . those in the chamber can rise in the usual way . please note that today 's proceedings will be televised in the same way as a typical sitting of the house . we 'll now proceed to ministerial announcements . i understand that there are none . now we 'll proceed to the tabling of documents . mr.leblanc has a document he wants to table . go ahead , mr.leblanc . hon . dominic leblanc : mr . chair , i have the honour to table , in both official languages , a report entitled `` democracy matters , debates count : a report on the 2019 leaders ' debates commission and the future of debates in canada . mr . chair , on behalf of all of us , i want to thank the right honourable david johnston for his continued service . the chair : good . we 'll now proceed to the presenting of petitions , for a period not exceeding 15 minutes . i would like to remind members that any petition presented during a meeting of the special committee must have already been certified by the clerk of petitions . for members participating in person , we ask that you please come to the front and drop off your certificate at the table once the petition has been presented . in presenting petitions , the first presenter today is mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis ( sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . i 'm pleased to be presenting a petition in support of bill s-204 . this is a bill in the senate , put forward by senator salma ataullahjan . it would make it a criminal offence for a person to go abroad and receive an organ for which there has not been consent by the donor . it also creates a mechanism by which someone could be deemed inadmissible to canada if they were involved in organ harvesting and trafficking . this bill is designed to confront and address the horrific practice by which , in certain casesfor instance , inside chinaminority communities or dissidents may be targeted and have their organs removed as they 're killed and used for transplantation . petitioners are supportive of bill s-204 , and they want to see it passed as soon as possible . the chair : our next petition will go to mr. viersen . mr. arnold viersen ( peace riverwestlock , cpc ) : mr . chair , i am presenting a petition today signed by canadians who are concerned that bill c-7 removes safeguards from the current euthanasia regime , including the mandatory 10-day waiting period . mr . chair , these people who are signing this petition would like to see an improvement in assisted living , not assisted dying . the chair : we 'll now go to ms. zahid . mrs. salma zahid ( scarborough centre , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . i would like to present an e-petition signed by over 40 people . it asks that the government of canada recognize the republic of somaliland as an autonomous state that may result in foreign investments , direct access of development aid , foreign aid for disaster relief and infrastructure development investment loans . the chair : now we 'll proceed to statements by members for a period not exceeding 15 minutes . each statement will be for a maximum of one minute . i remind members that if they exceed that time limit , they will be interrupted . our first statement goes to monsieur el-khoury . mr. fayal el-khoury ( lavalles les , lib . ) : mr.chair , i thank the government for the way it has managed this global crisis and its impact on canadians . it has acted in a robust , rapid and very effective way . our prime minister has been awarded the medal of honour , courage and humanity worldwide . canada is one of the few countries that has acted in the best interests of its citizens and maintained their dignity in these uncertain times . while addressing canadians , our right honourable prime minister showed us leadership , the importance of transparency , and integrity . he kept us united . his top priority was saving lives , along with finding realistic solutions regarding the economic impact on our daily life . because of his outstanding leadership , we 're admired across the world , which is another distinguished privilege of being canadian . thank you , mr . chair . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. epp . mr. dave epp ( chatham-kentleamington , cpc ) : covid-19 has emptied food banks across canada , even in an agricultural community like chatham-kent , so wes thompson and james rasmussen , along with alysson storey , randi bokor , maureen geddes , chris and terry johnston , jason king , fannie vavoulis and brent wilken , grew an idea into the community 's largest-ever food drive . project manager morna mcdonald estimates that over 3,000 volunteers ended up helping in the may 16 miracle . residents put non-perishable foodstuffs on their doorsteps , with drop-off centres organized for rural areas . volunteer groups travelled predetermined routes while maintaining physical distancing . the community collected an amazing 678,000 pounds of food . they accidentally exceeded by over 20 % the record in the guinness world records book for collected food in a single day . chatham-kent has restocked their food banks and reaffirmed their community pride . it 's an honour to represent such a community . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. sarai . we have a point of order from mr. d'entremont . mr. chris d'entremont ( west nova , cpc ) : as much as i like seeing my friends on the big screens , there are no big screens yet , so we do n't know who 's on and who 's not on . i was wondering if there was going to be a tv coming up soon here , mr . chair . the chair : there is a technical issue , and it is being worked on . we 're working on it as we go through . the other alternative is that we suspend until we fix it . if it 's okay , we 'll just continue . i think we can all hear the members who are speaking . this is one of the realities of a virtual or hybrid system . our next statement will go to mr. sarai . mr. randeep sarai ( surrey centre , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair , and mabuhay to all the filipino canadians across this country . in june across canada we recognize filipino heritage month to raise awareness and celebrate the filipino community . here in surrey centre , and across canada , the filipino community makes important contributions to our cities and has helped shape canada into the vibrant multicultural society that we all know and love today . now more than ever , during these challenging times we must come together as canadians to celebrate the rich heritage and history of our filipino neighbours . throughout june , please join me in celebrating our fellow citizens of filipino descent by recognizing all the incredible ways in which they have contributed to making canada a better place for all of us . happy filipino heritage month . thank you , mr . chair . the chair : mr.perron . mr. yves perron ( berthiermaskinong , bq ) : good afternoon , mr.chair . today is world milk day , and i would like to recognize the exceptional work and dedication shown by everyone in the industry . they ensure we have a nutritious , high quality product every day . let 's take part in the local consumption movement and rediscover the exceptional products of our dairy producers and processors . enjoy the yogurts , cheeses and other products because it 's true that milk is good . i would also like to thank brunoletendre , outgoing chair of the producteurs de lait du qubec , and i congratulate the new chair , danielgobeil . the dairy industry has been sacrificed several times in trade agreements . the government 's broken promises are piling up . the payment of compensation is still uncertain . action must be taken . the first step must be the direct allocation of import quotas to processors , and the second must be the full payment of the promised compensation . we demand a formal commitment from the government . the chair : we 'll now continue with mr.iacono . mr. angelo iacono ( alfred-pellan , lib . ) : mr.chair , june is italian heritage month . the situation is special this year , since italy has been hard hit by covid-19 , with more than 30,000deaths . like me , many italian canadians still have family and friends in italy , and the news has sometimes been very difficult to take , yet that has not detracted from the great co-operation that exists between canada and italy . today i would like to highlight the solidariet italiana in our community . during the pandemic , canadians of italian descent have been united to support anziani , our famiglie and our amici in italy by participating in the fundraising campaign covid-19 aiutiamo litalia to support the italian red cross response activities . i send a special salute to to my cugino giuseppe , who is still on the road to recovery from covid-19 . the chair : we 'll continue with mr. kram . mr. michael kram ( reginawascana , cpc ) : mr . chair , i would like to acknowledge all of the organizations in saskatchewan and across canada that are working hard to help small businesses adapt to the challenges of the current pandemic . in particular , i would like to thank the regina downtown business improvement district , or rdbid . as soon as the pandemic hit , rdbid launched a daily electronic newsletter to keep their members informed of support programs , local initiatives and local success stories . they have used their social media channels on a daily basis to promote takeout and delivery services , online and curbside services offered by restaurants and retailers . they have also launched a number of their own initiatives to help businesses access e-commerce . through persistent communication and a lot of long hours , rdbid has helped businesses in downtown regina to weather the storm . because of their hard work , downtown regina will come through this pandemic better than ever . the chair : mr.lauzon now has the floor . mr. stphane lauzon ( argenteuilla petite-nation , lib . ) : mr.chair , high-speed internet will be to the 21stcentury what electricity was to the 20th : an essential service . we are currently experiencing a drastic change in our morals , our consumption patterns and our socialization habits . we are turning to the internet to read the news , contact our friends and complete our purchases . isolation associated with covid-19 has only accelerated this trend . unfortunately , not all regions of canada have reliable , affordable , high-speed access . i would like to reassure the citizens of my riding about the efforts that we are making as a government , but also about the work i 've been doing as a member of parliament since2015 to connect the 41municipalities of argenteuilla petite-nation . aside from this essential service , our students , seniors , entrepreneurs and telework are very important to the regions . we have heard you , and i will continue to fight for you , so that you can have access to affordable high-speed internet . the chair : we 'll now go on to mr. mackinnon . mr. steven mackinnon ( gatineau , lib . ) : mr . chair , a few days ago , we all watched with horror and outrage the death of an unarmed black man at the hands of the police in minneapolis . for many of us , these images may seem shocking , but it 's an all too familiar tale to millions of black people not only in the united states but also here in canada , in my city of gatineau and around the world , who must at times live with the scourge of anti-black racism . mr.chair , i ca n't know what it 's like to be black in our society . what i do know , however , is that you and i , and everyone in this house , have the power and the responsibility to make our country more just . let us all recommit ourselves to that endeavour . black canadians and all those who have to endure racism and discrimination are watching us , and they expect more from us . the chair : mr. duncan is next . mr. eric duncan ( stormontdundassouth glengarry , cpc ) : without a doubt , these past few months have been challenging , to say the least , from both a health and economic perspective , but , mr . chair , i have to say how proud i am of my community of stormontdundassouth glengarry . we continue to successfully flatten the curve in our region and , just as importantly , we are making sure that we are here for each other , whether it is the cornwall optimists ' gofeedme campaign , the iroquois-matilda lions club delivering groceries to those who are quarantined in their households or the local united way , the social development council or the carefor seniors support centre co-leading an effort to deliver 1,500 baskets to seniors in need . there have been many examples of kindness and generosity from our community . i rise today in the house of commons to say thank you to my constituents and to all canadians ; to our essential front-line workers , our service clubs and our businesses that have stepped up to help out ; and to everybody playing their part to get us through this challenge . i could n't be more proud of my community and my residents , and it is an honour to serve as their member of parliament . thank you , mr . chair . the chair : we 'll now go to ms. yip . ms. jean yip ( scarboroughagincourt , lib . ) : mr . chair , although asian heritage month has just passed , we recognize the tremendous effort of all asian canadians on the front lines of this pandemic , as health care providers or as essential workers . i want to thank the many asian organizations for donating to scarboroughagincourt 's hospital , long-term care homes and food banks . as a canadian born and raised in scarborough , i 'm offended by the reports of violence and vandalism targeting asian-canadian communities across this country . in budget 2019 we invested $ 45 million to launch a new anti-racism strategy , which included the establishment of the anti-racism secretariat , because these efforts are unfortunately clearly still needed . as events continue to unfold in the united states , it is important to recognize that we have work to do here as well . whether it is anti-black or anti-asian , racism and discrimination of any kind have no place in canadafull stop . now more than ever , we must stand united in diversity . the chair : we 'll now go on to mr. bragdon . mr. richard bragdon ( tobiquemactaquac , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . over the last few months , canadians throughout new brunswick and across the country have stepped up to support their community . health care workers , truckers , farmers , business owners , pharmacists , grocery store staff , faith-based and non-profit organizations and so many others have all answered the call to do their part . today , mr . chair , i would like to specifically highlight the work of those who support and take care of our seniors , who are among some of our most at-risk citizens . it has been said that the character of a nation and its people is revealed most in how they treat their most vulnerable . our seniors have made immense contributions to our society . many have put their lives on the line to protect canada and the democratic freedoms we enjoy as canadians . they have worked hard and made many sacrifices throughout their lives to make canada the greatest nation on earth . taking care of our seniors is the right thing to do . i want to take this opportunity to thank all those who are supporting and caring for our seniors . whether they be long-term care staff , personal care workers , health care professionals , family members or volunteers , thank you for all you are doing in support of our seniors . together we shall overcome . the chair : we 'll now go to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin ( port moodycoquitlam , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . although we 've come to the end of asian heritage month , i 'd like to acknowledge some unsung chinese canadian heroes who shed their blood as patriots for our nation . i commemorate the 6,500 chinese canadians of the 9,000 railway workers who helped build and unite canada . i pay respect to the many chinese canadians who died while building the cp railway on the most dangerous terrains in the b.c . segment . i honour the chinese canadians who served and died in world war ii . sadly , asian communities in canada face racist incidents today . no one should be afraid of walking in their own neighbourhood . adult children should not have to call their elderly parents to tell them to stay home because they might be attacked by racists . there 's no justification for racial slurs , physical violence or vandalism against any individual or community . i will continue to work together with other elected officials , the police and the rcmp to mitigate these issues toward justice and restoration . the chair : we 'll go on to mr. angus . mr. angus , please proceed . mr. charlie angus ( timminsjames bay , ndp ) : ten years ago today , cree youth leader shannen koostachin was killed in a horrific car accident . she was only 15 years old , yet in her short life she became the voice of a generation of first nation youth who were no longer willing to put up with systemic discrimination . shannen had never seen a real school . children in attawapiskat were being educated in squalid conditions . her fight for their dignity and rights launched the largest youth-driven civil rights movement in canadian history . at 14 she was nominated for the international children 's peace prize . shannen never lived to see the school that was built in her community , but her work carries on through the shannen 's dream movement . she is a role model for youth activists across this country . a movie , two books and a statue are dedicated to her . she 's been recognized as one of the 150 most influential women in canadian history . i had the honour to know shannen . in fact , i think of her every single day . she truly did come from the angels , and one day she returned . the chair : mr.barsalou-duval , you now have the floor . mr. xavier barsalou-duval ( pierre-boucherles patriotesverchres , bq ) : mr.chair , for months now , thousands of consumers who need money to pay their bills have been fighting against airlines and the government to have their rights respected : three class action suits , a unanimous motion by the national assembly and over 30,000signatures on a petition calling for reimbursement for cancelled flights . it is n't a whim to enforce the law . air canada , which confiscated $ 2.6billion from its customers , received more than $ 800million from ottawa without any conditions . yet , the company has a year 's worth of cash in reserve , $ 6billion in its coffers , and is in the process of raising more than $ 1.4billion in the financial markets . air canada has the means to reimburse citizens . it has the money it needs . we 're tired of the minister of transport 's crocodile tears . i consulted the bankruptcy directory this morning and did n't see any airlines listed . now is the time to work for the people . the chair : mr.rayes now has the floor . mr. alain rayes ( richmondarthabaska , cpc ) : mr.chair , i want to pay tribute to a great man who represented the public here , in the house , for close to 15years : michelgauthier . michel , in life , we meet a lot of people , but some of them leave their mark on us forever . from the first time i spoke with you two years ago , i immediately understood that i was talking with a man with heart , a passionate man , a man who had quebec imprinted on his heart . because of your decision to join the conservative party of canada , i got to know you personally , and i am most grateful . i will remember our discussions on the best ways to communicate our conservative vision to quebeckers . i will remember our heated discussions on quebec-canada relations . i will remember all the passion and energy you had in the lead-up to a speech to our supporters . michel , canadians , quebeckers and i will remember you forever , the great man you were , the outstanding speaker , a formidable parliamentarian , with integrity , passion , commitment and love for quebec . i offer my sincere condolences to anne , and to your family and friends . rest in peace . the chair : mr.dubourg , you now have the floor . mr. emmanuel dubourg ( bourassa , lib . ) : mr.chair , the murder of georgefloyd in minneapolis resonated strongly within black communities in canada and also in the heart of montreal north . at a time of pandemic uncertainty when members of our community find themselves on the front lines as essential workers , an event like this rekindles feelings of fear , powerlessness and injustice . it has happened once again in the unitedstates , but we are not immune to such behaviour here , in canada . dear constituents of bourassa , i know our stories , i feel with you the pain as a parent and as a black person . i know this constant fear for our children . as elected officials , we have the duty to protect your rights and to ensure harmony . we must be vigilant and work to deconstruct prejudice and discrimination . the chair : before continuing , i 'd like to give a reminder . to avoid sound problems , members participating in person should n't connect to the video conference . there seems to be some interference when you watch the video conference in the chamber and it 's being transmitted , so let us make things run more smoothly . we will now proceed to the questioning of ministers . please note that we will suspend the proceedings every 45minutes in order to allow employees who provide support for the sitting to replace each other safely . the first question goes to the leader of the opposition , mr. scheer . hon . andrew scheer ( leader of the opposition ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . when the government first starting rolling out programs to help canadians get through this pandemic , we raised points about some flaws and gaps in the program . the government assured canadians that it would fix these programs as time went on . well , canadians are suffering through both the health and the economic consequences of the lockdown related to the coronavirus . here we are the first day of june and the government still has yet to address the flaws in its programs ; it is still letting so many canadians down . i have a series of very straightforward and specific questions . on april 20 we raised with the minister of finance the issue of companies that had purchased another company not being able to demonstrate revenue loss , and therefore not being eligible for the wage subsidy , even though both companies separately would have been able to do just that . we have raised it several times now . i would like to ask the government when it will be fixing this unnecessarily rigid aspect of the wage subsidy program . hon . chrystia freeland ( deputy prime minister and minister of intergovernmental affairs ) : mr . chair , i believe that a company with a fantastic canadian history in the member 's riding , brandt tractor , which pioneered the manufacturing of augers in canada , is particularly affected by this . it is very important for us that the wage subsidy be available to as many canadian companies as possible . it helps to keep employees connected to their businesses . now , there are always some specific issues that can make it challenging for particular companies . i know that in the case of brandt tractor , for example , officials from the ministry of finance are directly in touch with the company to work on its issues . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , that 's the same answer we got last week . it 's the same answer we got two weeks before that , and it 's the same answer we have been getting from day one . this is a very simple question . the government has indicated that it will change this program to allow for amalgamations . the solution is very simple . it is to also allow for those companies that have undergone acquisitions . this is a very specific question : will the government fix this program and allow for companies that have acquired another company to still access the wage subsidy program ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , let me just point out that the wage subsidy program is working extremely well for many , many canadian companies and for many , many canadians who are able to keep their jobs thanks to the program . more than two million canadian workers are today benefiting from the wage subsidy program . by any measure that is a successful program . now , for sure there are always going to be companies which , because of specifics in their history , need specific attention , and that the chair : we 'll go back to mr. scheer . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , reports indicate that up to half of the money allocated for the wage subsidy is going unspent , precisely because this government has left in unnecessarily rigid barriers for companies to be able to access it . it 's a yes-or-no question , and the minister still ca n't answer it . along the same lines , we asked on april 8 to allow businesses applying for the wage subsidy to demonstrate their 30 % revenue loss using other metrics , such as loss of earnings , subscriptions and orders , in order to qualify . they still ca n't do that today , the first day of june . why has n't the government addressed this part of the program ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , we are very proud of the wage subsidy program and proud of the role it is playing to keep canadian businesses going and , crucially , to keep canadian workers connected to their jobs , but i have a question for the member opposite . half of the questions we hear from the conservatives in question period are concerns that we 're spending too much money , that the deficit is too high . the other half of the time they complain about specific companies not getting access to our programs . we know which side we 're on as a government . i 'd like the conservatives to let canadians know what they believe in . the chair : mr. scheer , you may have a short question . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , it 's quite clear what conservatives believe in . we believe that when times were good , this government should have paid down debt instead of wasting money like $ 50 million to mastercard and $ 12 million to loblaws . the fact of the matter is that the government left canadians in a vulnerable position as we were entering this pandemic precisely because of its fiscal irresponsibility , and now they have designed programs that have unnecessary barriers in them that prevent more and more canadians from getting the help they need . again , on april 26 , conservatives asked the prime minister to change the criteria for the canada emergency business account so that small businesses that do n't happen to have a business bank account can qualify . why has n't the prime minister made that change either ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i 'm really grateful for that question because it allows me to set the record straight for canadians . canadians need to know that our country has the lowest debt-to-gdp ratio in the g7 . we had that before the crisis began , and we still do . canada has the fiscal firepower to support canadians during this unprecedented crisis , and that is what we are going to continue to do . the chair : mrs.debellefeuille . mrs. claude debellefeuille ( salaberrysurot , bq ) : mr.chair , the wage subsidy was put in place to support businesses and smes , to avoid closures and bankruptcy . have i missed something ? is the liberal party on the verge of bankruptcy ? is it about to shut down ? does the prime minister consider that the liberal party is getting ready to close its doors ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i thank the hon . member for the question . i want to point out that , as the hon . member said , the wage subsidy was really put in place to protect workers across canada . we are proud of that . more than 2million canadians have benefited from this the chair : mrs.debellefeuille , you have the floor . mrs. claude debellefeuille : mr.chair , the liberal party made $ 3million between january and march of this year . that 's $ 3million in political donations . we 're told that the emergency subsidy is being used to protect the jobs of liberal party employees . i 'm not an accountant , but i can count . i 'm wondering why the liberal party does n't use its own money to pay its own employees instead of using the canada emergency wage subsidy . hon . chrystia freeland : i thank the hon . member for her question . i would like to point out again that the purpose of the canada emergency wage subsidy is to support workers across canada and quebec , to help them keep their jobs and allow them to stay connected to their workplace . that is what we 've done . more than 2million canadians are benefiting from this important and truly essential program for our country . we are proud of it . mrs. claude debellefeuille : mr.chair , does the deputy prime minister think it is moral , fair and honest that employees who have lost their jobs are subsidizing an emergency wage subsidy for the liberal party of canada out of their taxes ? hon . chrystia freeland : our programs do not discriminate . they are there to help all workers . the hon . member talked about businesses and sectors that need more help . we agree . there is still a lot to do , but we want to work with all the the chair : mrs.debellefeuille . mrs. claude debellefeuille : mr.chair , many struggling businesses in quebec do n't have access to the canada emergency wage subsidy because they do n't meet the eligibility criteria . many tourism and municipal organizations , among others , do n't have access to this wage subsidy . however , it 's very clear that the liberal party qualifies according to the program criteria . does the deputy prime minister really think it 's moral for her party to benefit from the emergency wage subsidy when it has the financial means to pay its own employees ? hon . chrystia freeland : i thank the hon . member for her question . i agree that there is still a lot to do . we are ready , and we are taking action . however , it 's important to point out that our government has already done a lot to support canadians . we 've spent $ 152billion in direct support measures to canadians . more than eightmillion people are benefiting from the cerb , and more than twomillion the chair : mrs.debellefeuille , you have the floor . mrs. claude debellefeuille : mr.chair , what i understand is not really complicated to understand . i understand that the liberal party has money , that it has money to pay its employees , but that it does n't want to cut the booty it has amassed for the next election . it 's as if it were telling us that it 's indirectly financing itself for the next election . will the deputy prime minister show some leadership and convince her own party to give up the emergency wage subsidy and even commit to paying back the money it has already received ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i want to point out that our programs do not discriminate . they are there to help all workers across the country , and i want to point out to what extent our programs do that . eight million people are currently benefiting from the cerb , and two million are supported by the emergency wage subsidy . our programs are also helping 380,000students and 639,000businesses the chair : we 'll now continue with mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . canadians and people across the world are reeling after seeing the images of george floyd being brutally killed in a callous and casual manner . we 're struggling with the impacts of anti-black racism . anti-black racism has n't just appeared or increased . it 's now simply being captured by video . canada is also no different . anti-black racism also impacts canada , and people here are feeling the frustration of black lives being neglected and ignored . will the government commit to tracking race-based data in terms of covid-19 's impact on communities , particularly black canadians , and track race-based data so that we can have a better response based on the evidence ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i would like to start by thanking the member opposite for his very important question and the very important work he has done throughout his career in drawing attention to racism in canada and in fighting against it . thank you . i agree strongly with the member opposite that we , as canadians , must be the opposite of complacent . we have to acknowledge that anti-black racism is real in our country , that unconscious bias is real in our country and that systemic discrimination is real . it happens here . we have to commit today to working hard to fight it . i have more to say about disaggregated data and the coronavirus , and i hope i 'll have a chance to do that in my next answer . mr. jagmeet singh : thank you for that openness on the part of the government . i want more and clear commitments . we also know that race-based or discriminatory police practices still exist across canada . will the government commit to working with provinces to ensure there are no such practices allowed to exist in canada , particularly related to discriminatory police practices like carding ? will the federal government work and use its powers to end those discriminatory practices where federal regulation applies , and work with the provinces to ensure this happens across the country ? hon . chrystia freeland : thank you again for that very important question . first of all , on coronavirus , our government believes that disaggregated data , including when it comes to race , is extremely important . we 're working with our provincial partners on that . on policing , racial profiling is unacceptable and unlawful . we will always work to uphold the canadian charter of rights and freedoms and to ensure the human rights of everyone in canada are protected . at the federal level , rcmp members are guided by bias-free policing based on equality and non-discrimination . mr. jagmeet singh : i want to change tracks , mr . chair , and talk about long-term care . how many times did the prime minister 's office and the liberal government meet with lobbyists from for-profit long-term care homes from march 25 to april 22 , during the worst impacts of covid-19 in long-term care homes ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , at this moment i can only speak for myself , and i have not met with any such lobbyists during that period or at other times . i share the member opposite 's concerns about long-term care facilities in canada . we have to do better , and we will . mr. jagmeet singh : it was 12 times during the worst impacts of covid-19 . while seniors were dying in long-term care homes , the prime minister 's office and the liberal government met with private , for-profit long-term care home lobbyists 12 times . why did the prime minister 's office and the liberal government choose to meet with these for-profit long-term care home lobbyists instead of meeting with those to solve the problem ? instead of making excuses about the federal government not playing a role , why did n't the prime minister and the liberal government show leadership in calling for an end to profit in long-term care homes ? hon . chrystia freeland : let me very clear about one thing , speaking on behalf of our government and on behalf of the prime minister . our government sees as a matter of utmost concern and utmost urgency what has been happening in long-term care homes in our country , and the reports we have received from the brave men and women of the canadian armed forces about facilities in ontario and quebec need to be treated as historic documents that the chair : now it 's mr.rayes 's turn . mr.rayes , you have the floor . mr. alain rayes : mr.chair , why is it that employers from industry , businesses and community organizations that have been approved in the canada summer jobs program still have n't received the money they 're entitled to ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : we are ensuring that the canada summer jobs program is strengthened and enforced . we are making it more available to more students . we have lengthened the time period that the program the chair : mr.rayes has the floor . mr. alain rayes : every day , the prime minister makes announcements in front of his residence . i 'll repeat my question . given the importance of the program for our youth who are looking to work , how is it that the organizations have n't yet received the money they need to hire students ? as we know , there have been some problems with the cesb . hon . ahmed hussen : our government is working hard to help employers adapt to the realities of covid-19 . we recognize the important role that the canada summer jobs program plays in supporting employers and young workers in communities across the country every year . that is why we have introduced flexibilities in the canada summer jobs program to hire youth while providing more supports to employers . mr. alain rayes : the minister can say whatever he wants . last year , there was no crisis and , as of april , all employers who had been admitted to the program had received the money . we are currently in a crisis . the government is trying to respond quickly to the needs . right now , community organizations are not receiving the money to which they are entitled to hire students , to put them to work and to give them an employment opportunity . why ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we have managed to introduce flexibilities to take into consideration the difficult environment of the covid-19 pandemic . as such , the flexibilities we 've introduced into the canada summer jobs program will help with more hiring of youth and more supports to employers , including non-profits and businesses that deliver essential services to canadians . these changes will help small businesses hire and keep the workers that they need in the canada summer jobs program . mr. alain rayes : the young people and employers listening to us must be very surprised by what the minister is saying . he mentioned that the rules are now more flexible . however , it is taking a month and a half longer than last year . the money has not yet been given out . i have done my homework . i went to see what was happening in my riding and in about 10other ridings . last year , in my riding , all the money had been deposited before april . right now , there is a $ 240,000shortfall for about 60student jobs , and the minister has the nerve to tell us that the government has provided more flexibility . why is the money not available if the government wants to act quickly , to help the economy recover and to help young people ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , indeed we are acting quickly . we are listening to the needs of the employers to make sure that this program works not only for them but also for youth , and that it gives them the experiences they need . it is adapted better for the covid-19 pandemic to ensure that youth have the experience they need to gain life and work skills from the program . it 's a great program , and we 're making it work not just for businesses but also for non-profits . mr. alain rayes : here is the reality . last week , the owner of a hardware store in a village in my riding had to close his business because he was unable to hire students and had no one to work . this morning , an employer called me to tell me that his request to hire a student had been accepted , but that the delay meant that he could not proceed with the hiring . this means that one more young person will not have a job . that young person will therefore have to receive the cesb . there is the reality . when is the government going to release the money required for young people to be able to work ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , i join the honourable member in recognizing that in the context of the covid-19 pandemic there are some difficulties in terms of structuring the program and making sure that employers are able to access it . that is why we 've introduced flexibilities to ensure that employers are able to access the program and that youth are also able to take advantage of the program to gain important work skills , especially in the context of the covid-19 pandemic and especially in providing essential services that serve their fellow canadians . it 's a great program . we 're doing everything that we can to work through some of those obstacles . the chair : we 'll now continue with ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : thank you , mr . chair . by its own numbers , pspc has had to cut the number of n95 masks the government has on order after cancelling contracts with companies that were not able to meet canadian standards . we know that companies right here in canada were willing to step up and fill in the gap . will the minister commit to making domestic production of ppe , including n95 masks , a priority ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . anita anand ( minister of public services and procurement ) : mr . chair , our priority is to make sure that we get safe and effective equipment and supplies into the hands of front-line health care workers . we 've been running multiple complementary supply chains at the same time . building up domestic capacity is indeed a priority . we have a contract with medicom in montreal for the production of n95 masks and we will continue to work hard to ensure the chair : we 'll go back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : mr . chair , novo textiles , a company in my riding , has retooled its factory to produce surgical masks in response to the shortage of ppe in canada . additionally , it will soon be producing quality made-in-canada n95 masks using canadian designs and canadian-made machinery . my constituent has invested his own capital and is in active production supplying front-line workers right now , not just talking about it . however , the company 's application to ngen was recently rejected . canada needs masks now , masks that meet canadian standards . is the government serious about growing domestic production capacity , or is it all talk and no action ? hon . anita anand : in reality , we have received 101.3 million surgical masks that are being distributed out to provinces and territories . we have signed 24 contracts with domestic companies for the production of ppe right here at home . we are working very hard , mr . chair , to make sure canadian front-line health care workers have exactly what they need to fight this pandemic . ms. nelly shin : mr . chair , how many of these have received financial support from the government ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , i 'm not quite sure what the member is referring to by how many of these , but as i said , we have signed 24 contracts with domestic the chair : we 'll have to go back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : where are these manufacturers located ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , we have surgical masks being produced right here at home , as well as abroad , being brought into canada the chair : back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : what provinces are they in ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , as i said , we have a contract with general motors for the production of surgical masks the chair : ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : are there any in any provinces besides ontario and quebec ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , we have contracts with multiple provinces throughout this country for the production of personal protective equipment . we are committed the chair : back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : how many of these domestic manufacturers rely on supply chains in china ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , we are dealing with a situation of very high global demand for the same product . as a result , we the chair : we 'll go back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : will the minister commit to providing my office with answers to these questions ? thank you . hon . anita anand : i will commit , mr . chair , to continuing to work hard for canadians to supply the personal protective equipment that they need . we have been giving updated numbers on our website the chair : we 'll go back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : i 'm going to assume that answer is no . mr . chair , the prime minister introduced the canada student service grant on april 22 . students were told details would arrive in a matter of weeks . it 's been over a month , the i want to help platform has no details yet about eligibility , levels of funding , or how to apply . post-secondary students are already one-quarter into their summer break . when can students expect to start applying for the cssg so they can receive their grants ? thank you . the chair : the honourable minister . hon . bardish chagger ( minister of diversity and inclusion and youth ) : mr . chair , i 'm pleased to share that students can anticipate more programs coming out as soon as possible . the i want to help website will be launched . students can already apply for canada summer jobs if they go to jobbank.gc.ca . by visiting canada.ca/coronavirus , you 'll see a suite of programs to ensure that students and young people are able to succeed . the coronavirus will not win , and our government will continue investing in our leaders of today and tomorrow . the chair : the next set of questions goes to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard ( barrieinnisfil , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . last week the president of the treasury board wrote a letter to his cabinet colleagues in which he said that , as the federal minister responsible for public access to government information , he has advised his cabinet colleagues of the need for transparency and accountability , even in times of crisis . my question is for the minister of infrastructure and communities . does she agree with the president of the treasury board 's directive ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . steven guilbeault ( minister of canadian heritage ) : mr . chair , the government remains committed to maintaining the openness and transparency of our government during this challenging time . the government of canada , along with provincial and territorial governments , have implemented exceptional workplace measures to curb the spread of covid-19 , and to protect the health and safety of federal employees . these measures have had an impact on institutions ' abilities to respond to access to information and personal information requests , since most employees are now working from their homes . mr. john brassard : frankly , i 'm surprised that the answer is coming from that minister when the minister of infrastructure and communities is in the house , but i will ask this question . can the minister tell canadians who pierre lavalle is ? hon . steven guilbeault : treasury board secretariat has provided guidance to institutions to continue to make the best efforts to respond to access to information act and privacy act requests and to provide published content the chair : we 'll go back to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : can the minister of infrastructure and communities tell us who pierre lavalle is ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . catherine mckenna ( minister of infrastructure and communities ) : mr . chair , of course . pierre lavalle was the former ceo of the canada infrastructure bank . we are very proud that we now have michael sabia as the new chair of the infrastructure bank . he did a fabulous job in montreal at the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : can the minister tell me how long mr. lavalle was the ceo of the infrastructure bank ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , i ca n't give you the exact months . he was the ceo of the canada infrastructure bank since the beginning , but let 's be clear : crown corporations work at arm 's length from the government and must have the chair : we 'll return to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : can i ask the minister how well she knows her file : 50 % , 75 % or 100 % ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , that 's quite a condescending little comment . i 'd like to say that i know my file very well . what i know is that canadians want infrastructure built , they want it built across the country , in the member opposite 's riding and in ridings across the country . they want cleaner , healthier , more connected some hon . members : hear , hear ! the chair : we 'll go back to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : how much of the $ 35 billion of infrastructure money that was allocated to that bank has been spent so far ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , the infrastructure bank is a new , more flexible financing model for infrastructure investments . it was set up ; it is now in its new phase . we 're very excited that it 's going to be moving forwardand stay tuned . mr. john brassard : in the context of mr. duclos ' advice to his cabinet colleagues about openness and transparency , i 'd like to ask the minister how much mr. lavalle was paid annually . hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , as i said , crown corporations work at arm 's length from the government . our government follows the privacy act and the access to information act when it comes to employee compensation , but remuneration ranges are publicly available . i 'd note that this information for the bank 's ceos has been in the public domain the chair : mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : mr . chair , i 'm asking the minister how much mr. lavalle made . there was no answer to that . if it is in the public realm , she should know that . she said she knows her file very well . how much of a bonus was mr. lavalle paid recently when he left on april 2 ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , i am not involved in hr discussions when it comes to the canada infrastructure bank and mr. lavalle . crown corporations work at arm 's length from the government . they need to have flexibility to meet their commercial mandates . as i say , the information about salary ranges is publicly available , but personal hr the chair : mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : mr . chair , could you stop my ... ? i 'm hearing ... . the chair : i would ask those of us virtually to mute . mr. brassard , there is about 15 seconds left . i 'll cue you for a very short question . mr. john brassard : thank you , mr . chair . according to a table , mr. lavalle could have received a bonus after year one of zero to 75 % of his base salary , which was $ 510,000 to $ 600,000 per year ; or in year two , which he was in , zero to 120 % of his base salary . how much of a bonus did he receive ? hon . catherine mckenna : the rate of any remuneration paid to the chief executive officer is based on the recommendations of the board . our government follows the privacy act and the access to information act when it comes to employee compensation . let me say this : we 're very excited about the new phase of the canada infrastructure bank . we have michael sabia there as the new board chair . we need to move forward on the chair : we 'll now continue with mr. chong . hon . michael chong ( wellingtonhalton hills , cpc ) : thank you , chair . parliament 's now been suspended for three months , since friday , march 13 . will the government commit to reopening the house of commons with its full powers , with social distancing , on monday , september 21 ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . pablo rodriguez ( leader of the government in the house of commons ) : mr . chair , as my colleague knows , we 're meeting here four days a week , with questions on any topic for an hour and 35 minutes instead of 45 minutes a day . democracy is as important for us as it is for the opposition . hon . michael chong : mr . chair , this committee is neutered . it has no powers to introduce supply day motions , no powers to test government confidence , no powers to do the usual things that parliament does . at times of crisis , the bedrock principles of rule of law and democracy are tested , and our democratic principles are buckling under the pressure from this government . they came to office promising greater transparency , but they broke almost every one of their promises . they broke their promise on electoral reform . they appointed an anti-conservative organization , unifor , to the media bailout fund . in the last parliament , they tried to give the pmo control over this legislature in motion no . 6 , and in the last election , they rigged the leaders ' debates in their favour , and now they have suspended parliament . instead of this neutered committee that meets for only a few days with a few members , will the government commit to the full re-opening of this house with all its powers with social distancing on monday , september 21 ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr.chair , the government 's objective is always to try to resume parliament as it was before . today , we have to live with this pandemic , but we will do everything we can to return to a normal situation as quickly as possible . that is clear and precise . the opposition asked for more time , especially to ask questions , and that is what it got . i would like my colleague to tell me one thing . over the past few weeks , we have sent suggestions to opposition members about the operation of parliament and they have never responded . i would like to know why . hon . michael chong : mr . chair , the full parliament with its full powers sat through two world wars , previous pandemics and the october crisis in 1970 . the governments of those days did not seek the suspension of the house . the government is not only failing to defend democracy here but also abroad . it ca n't utter the word taiwan . it is failing to be strong and clear on hong kong and , while the situation today is not that of decades past , it is clear that canada in the past stood for the rights of people in hong kong . canada needs to take much stronger diplomatic action on hong kong . there are some 300,000 canadians living there , and they are looking for the government 's support . when will this government act ? when will it threaten economic sanctions like the u.s. administration has ? when will it provide asylum and a clear path to citizenship like the u.k. government has ? when will it speak up against the communist party of china 's united front workers operating here in this country ? when will it do like australia did in calling for an international investigation of covid-19 , and organize an international coalition of like-minded democracies to defend hong kongers and the violation of the sino-british treaty ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . franois-philippe champagne ( minister of foreign affairs ) : mr . chair , i 'll remind the member to look at our statement of may 28 . it 's already done . canada has spoken to the world ; canada has spoken up . we 've made a first declaration with our colleagues in australia and the u.k. to say that we have deep concerns . we all know that the one country , two systemsthe high degree of liberty and freedom enjoyed by the people in hong konghas made hong kong what it is today , a beacon when it comes to trade and financing . we know that and have expressed deep concern . again , on may 28 , with the united states , with the united kingdom and with australia , canada was front and centre in saying that we have deep concerns that the imposition of a national security law by beijing would undermine the very foundation , the very principles that have made hong kong so successful . we said that we and our international partners would look at the implications and the ramifications that this might have on our arrangement . i 've called for a meeting of our five eyes partners tonight . i 'll be chairing a meeting of our five eyes partners with the foreign ministers . we will be discussing it and will continue to raise our voices to stand up for the people of hong kong , and we will do it with our allies . the chair : we will now go to mr. maguire . mr. larry maguire ( brandonsouris , cpc ) : mr . chair , farmers have contacted my office about the massive delays with processing the advance payment program loans . some put their applications in almost two months ago , and not a dollar has flowed . what 's the point of having an advance payment program if there 's no payment ? can the minister of agriculture tell us when these delays will end ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . marie-claude bibeau ( minister of agriculture and agri-food ) : mr.chair , i can assure you that we are working with all the independent operators . this program is not administered by their officials , but by partners . i can assure you that , under the circumstances , they are doing their best to make the advance payments mr. larry maguire : farmers understand that some of the delays were caused by staff having to work remotely . however , did the minister approve a policy change on april 1 that made the eligibility for these loans more difficult during the middle of a pandemic , yes or no ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , a number of changes and improvements have been made to the program . to make things easier for our administrators , we have postponed some of the changes that could have been problematic . mr. larry maguire : yes , so some of the changes made it more problematic for the producers . the minister must take responsibility for these delays . farmers deserve an answer on why she changed the program . who advised her that it would be a good idea to make it more difficult for the farmers to access the advance payment program in the middle of a pandemic ? or did she just go ahead and do this on her own ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , we are constantly working with the administrators of the program . we are fully prepared to respond to their requests so that the advance payments program can best serve our producers across the country . mr. larry maguire : livestock producers are telling me that the premiums for the western livestock insurance program are too high . i told the minister of agriculture over two weeks ago that this was a problem , and yet she went out and said that farmers needed to make better use of existing support . when will the minister of agriculture listen to what the farmers are saying so they can actually use the existing programs ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , i would like to remind everyone that we have put in place certain measures to improve access to agristability . we have also significantly improved the agrirecovery program . over the past few years , this program amounted to about $ 15million . it is now $ 100million for pork and beef producers alone , not counting the $ 77.5million for food processors . mr. larry maguire : livestock producers in my riding and several across canada are still waiting for the minister of agriculture 's promise for an agrirecovery program . when will the minister of agriculture stop rubbing salt in the farmers ' wounds and provide the rest of the story she has been saying is on its way for over a month now in her agrirecovery promise ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , we have committed $ 50million to beef producers and $ 50million to pork producers through the agrirecovery program . here is how the program works : the federal government contributes up to60 % and then the provinces implement it how they see fit . mr. larry maguire : the funding announced by the minister of agriculture for the livestock industry was insufficient , and what was promised has not been delivered . this has caused hogs to be euthanized and over 100,000 feeder cattle to become overweight . the industry is in a crisis . how many livestock producers need to go bankrupt before they get the help they deserve ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , once again , we have significantly increased the amounts available through agrirecovery . it is $ 50million for beef producers and $ 50million for pork producers . these programs are administered by the provinces . there is also $ 77.5million for processors . the chair : ms.chabot , you have the floor . hon . dominic leblanc : mr.chair , we know that not everyone experiences economic recovery in the same way . in some sectors , such as tourism , fishery , hotels and restaurants , we do not know when activity will resume or whether it will resume slowly . this is a major concern for workers , because they do not know what will happen tomorrow . they do not know how much they will be able to earn this summer . given that the cerb lasts 16weeks , they are all afraid that they will be left with nothing . without a job , they have no income . will the minister of finance announce now that he is extending the cerb ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we moved very quickly at the early onset of the covid-19 pandemic to support workersthose who have lost their jobs , who were laid off , or those whose jobs simply disappearedthrough the canada emergency response benefit . it has provided immense support to the over eight million canadian workers who have applied to the cerb . we will continue to support those workers throughout the covid-19 pandemic period . ms. louise chabot : mr.chair , my question was clear . we know why the cerb was put in place . it does not need to be explained to us again . for some workers , the cerb will end tomorrow morning . there will be no recovery in their sector . examples include bars , sports training , arts and culture . they do n't know when they will start up again . is the government prepared to extend the canada emergency response benefit now ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , the workers that the honourable member identified , including those who were not eligible for the ei , were also covered by the canada emergency response benefit . we moved quickly . we recognized the urgency of the situation , which is why we took action to support workers and their families through the canada emergency response benefit . we have processed over eight million applications through that benefit . we will continue to support canadian workers at this very difficult time . ms. louise chabot : mr.chair , are we going to continue to help workers in these difficult times ? the answer is simple . some do n't know what they are going to do tomorrow morning . they do not know whether they will have an income to pay their bills . they have families , they have other needs . the cerb is going to end . this is the last period for some people . can you do anything about it ? can i walk out of the house today and tell all those people that the cerb is going to be extended ? hon . bill morneau ( minister of finance ) : mr.chair , i would like to thank the honourable member for her question . we will clearly maintain our approach . we will look at how we can improve and change our programs , such as the wage subsidy . of course , we are looking at how we can gradually reopen our economy by continuing to help people to be in a good position . ms. louise chabot : mr.chair , we are making progress . yes , the decision is to extend the wage subsidy . i think we must do the same with the cerb , which is about to end . another important commitment is the employment incentives . i do n't know about you , but we see it in our ridings . people are scared because the economy is reopening in certain sectors . people are afraid to go back to work . people are afraid to go back to full-time jobs because they are afraid of losing all their emergency benefits . this affects workers and students alike . are you prepared to take action on this issue ? you have also promised to implement employment incentives . hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , we know that , with a responsible reopening of the economy , we have to look at our programs to make sure that we are keeping and protecting people . that continues to be our approach . we will look at changes and improvements . in that way , we will continue our responsible reopening of the economy . the chair : we are going to take a break so that our employees can change shifts without jeopardizing their health . while we have a few seconds , i would also like to remind members to address their questions to the chair , not directly to the ministers . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ( simcoe north , cpc ) ) : we 'll now carry on . we 'll go to mr. easter in malpeque . hon . wayne easter ( malpeque , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . i 'll be splitting my time with the member for brampton north . today , june 1 , under the auspices of the food and agriculture organization , we celebrate world milk day . world milk day allows us to emphasize the importance of milk as a global food , its benefits for our health as well as our nutrition ; and to celebrate the dairy sector , from the primary producers to the processors who ensure that our many high-quality dairy products get to the marketplace . canadians are fortunate to have a thriving dairy sector that , under supply management , provides high-quality products at reasonable prices to consumers . even under supply management though , dairy farmers have found themselves facing difficult challenges as a result of recent trade agreements and sudden market shocks as a result of the pandemic . mr . chair , to acknowledge world milk day , i 'd love to be able to raise a glass of wholesome white or chocolate milk , but we ca n't do that . on the other hand , i must ask the minister of agriculture what the government is doing to support the dairy sector in these times so we can celebrate world milk day next year with more vim and vigour . hon . marie-claude bibeau : thank you , mr . chair . i would like to thank mr. easter , from the great riding of malpeque in prince edward island . today it is particularly important to thank families working on the 11,000 dairy farms across the country , caring for 1.4 million cows to produce each year more than 9.3 billion litres of milk of the highest quality . the dairy sector in canada is made up of more than 220,000 canadians and foreign workers who dedicate their lives to feed us . while our society lives through unprecedented changes , the dairy sector demonstrates its resilience and proves more than ever the value of the supply management system . it is why we increased by $ 200 million the borrowing capacity of the canadian dairy commission to improve its butter and cheese storage programs , giving the flexibility to manage the surplus of milk and support its mandate . over the past few years , we have invested in dairy farms and given direct compensation to dairy farmers through trade agreements with europe and asia . we will do the same for the new nafta . raise a glass for world milk day . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to ms. sahota in brampton north . ms. ruby sahota ( brampton north , lib . ) : mr . chair , last week a horrific video surfaced showing the killing of an unarmed black man at the hands of the minneapolis police . george floyd 's death was the latest in a series of unwarranted deaths of black men and women at the hands of police . since his death , solidarity protests have erupted across cities in the united states and all over the world asking for justice and a stop to systemic dehumanization of black people . i wish i could say we are , but sadly we are not immune to the reality of what is happening south of the border . the same protests taking place in new york , philadelphia , los angeles , berlin , paris and london are also taking place in our own backyard . in cities like montreal and toronto , thousands of people have already taken to the streets , not only to decry anti-black racism but also to ask for tangible solutions to effectively combat anti-black racism . we do n't have to wait for pain , suffering and outrage to boil to the surface to act . there 's nothing we know today that we did n't already know . as canadians are demonstrating and calling on their society and governments to do better , can the minister of diversity and inclusion and youth tell us what this government is doing to address anti-black racism in canada and to ensure we are evening the playing field for black canadians ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . bardish chagger : mr . chair , the mp for brampton north is correct . anti-black racism , racism and discrimination are present in canada . with covid-19 , we have even seen a rise in anti-asian racism . we all must speak out against racism and discrimination . keeping silent is to condone these horrific acts . these acts do n't have to be violent or result in the loss of life to be wrong . in fact , the actions of amy cooper shone a light on the stealth racism that exists . we must acknowledge inequities in our institutions and in people 's lived experiences . if we as canadians truly desire an inclusive canada , every single one of us must step up , be an ally and do what we can to make workplaces , communities and public spaces safer . our government has started this work . the open , transparent , merit-based appointment process is resulting in decision-making tables better reflecting canadians . we recognize the un international decade for people of african descent ; the applications for capacity building in black canadian communities are being assessed ; the anti-racism secretariat is set up for canadians but also for government departments to improve their systems , including advancement opportunities ; and the recently announced immunity task force will provide disaggregated data to decision-makers because decisions need to be based on science and evidence . this work is by no means finished . although our government is moving in the right decision , there is clearly a lot more work to do and we are committed to doing that work with communities as allies , as partners . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go to mr. duvall from hamilton mountain . mr. scott duvall ( hamilton mountain , ndp ) : thank you , mr . chair . i will be splitting my time with the member for elmwoodtranscona . mr . chair , workers ' unions , business leaders and analysts across the country are raising a huge alarm over potential bankruptcies due to covid-19 . thousands of canadian workers are exposed and vulnerable . for years the government has promised to change the laws to protect workers from corporate bankruptcy , but has failed to deliver . will this government fix the law before more canadian workers lose their hard-earned pensions ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . filomena tassi ( minister of labour ) : thank you , mr . chair . i 'd like to thank the member for hamilton mountain for that question and for his advocacy on this file . i remind the member that since 2015 one of our first initiatives was the repealing of bills c-525 and c-377 , which were anti-union legislation . since then , we 've implemented a number of measures to protect workers . we 've increased the wage earner protection program by extending it from four weeks to seven weeks . the member is well aware that in 2019 the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go back to mr. duvall . mr. scott duvall : mr . chair , the changes the government made last year to bankruptcy insolvency laws were largely cosmetic and wo n't protect workers ' and pensioners ' livelihoods once bankruptcy hits . the government can protect severance , termination pay , pensions and benefits from corporate theft , but will they do it , yes or no ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . filomena tassi : mr . chair , we made a number of significant changes in budget 2019 , including that the process for the ccaa be more open and transparent . we mandated that those who are coming to the process have to be honest and truthful . one thing we heard in the consultations was the ability for courts to set aside executive bonuses , and we implemented all those changes because we want to continue to protect pensioners . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : you have time for a short question , mr. duvall . mr. scott duvall : thanks , mr . chair . the minister is n't answering the question . canadian workers are worried . this is about their livelihoods . will the government fix the lawsyes or noto protect workers ' and pensioners ' rights ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . filomena tassi : mr . chair , we have made amendments , and we are going to continue to make amendments . we want to absolutely ensure that pensions are protected . i look forward to working collaboratively with the member . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to mr. blaikie , elmwoodtranscona . mr. daniel blaikie ( elmwoodtranscona , ndp ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . twice , following negotiations with the ndp , the government has committed to provide direct financial assistance to people living with disabilities . i 'm wondering when those people can expect the government to announce the details of that assistance . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we are committed to advancing on the issues that have been identified by canadians with disabilities . we are continuing that engagement , and we will have more to say on that very soon . mr. daniel blaikie : i think that answer is entirely inadequate . i have a lot of sympathy for people across the country who are living with disabilities and are getting impatient with the fact that alongside its initial commitment to seniors , for instance , the government made a commitment to helping people living with disabilities with the same kind of direct financial assistance , and it has n't come . why has it taken so long for the government to get around to helping people who are in a crisis right now ? i want to know the reason why this has n't been announced yet . hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we have established the covid-19 disability advisory group , comprising experts in disability inclusion . we 're moving forward with the canada emergency student benefit , which will provide $ 2,000 per month for eligible students with permanent disabilities . we are doubling the canada student grants for students with disabilities in the coming academic year . we have done a lot , but we will continue to do more , and we will have more to share on our continuing efforts to support persons with disabilities . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : go ahead , mr. blaikie . you have time for one short question . mr. daniel blaikie : their commitment was not around an advisory commitment . their commitment was for direct financial assistance to people living with disabilities who are facing additional costs because of the pandemic . they have committed twice and they have done nothing . when are they going to get around to it ? why should people living with disabilities have to wait any longer than they already have ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , that is precisely why we are listening closely to the covid-19 disability advisory group to get expert advice . we will have more to share . there is more work to come , and there will be results to be announced very soon . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to mr. mclean , calgary centre . mr. greg mclean ( calgary centre , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . according to la presse , federal cabinet ministers steven guilbeault , catherine mckenna and jonathan wilkinson have been handed responsibility for crafting an economic recovery plan that aims to accelerate the green shift . true to form , this cabal around the prime minister has declared let 's not let a good crisis go to waste . can the prime minister confirm that his ministers have been working with environmental lobby groups for further financial support to engineer canada 's economy post covid ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister of middle class prosperity . hon . mona fortier ( minister of middle class prosperity and associate minister of finance ) : mr . chair , our most urgent priority is covid-19 and the health and safety of canadians . as we support canadians through this time , we will also ensure our long-term economic , environmental and physical well-being . our government remains committed to building a stronger and more resilient economy to ensure a sustainable , prosperous future for our kids and grandkids . just like science is guiding us in our response to covid-19 , science will continue to guide us toward reduced pollution and in fighting climate change . mr. greg mclean : the task force for a resilient recovery was quoted as saying last week that they would have recommendations for government action available within eight weeks , notably eight weeks when parliament is , by this government 's design , absent . can the prime minister disclose to this committee how many meetings his 61 environmental activist advisers have had with the task force or its members ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , our most urgent priority with respect to covid-19 is the health and safety of canadians . while supporting canadians during this period , we must also ensure our economic , environmental and physical well-being in the long term . our government remains committed to building a stronger , more resilient economy to ensure a sustainable future for our grandchildren and children . mr. greg mclean : the task force is a who 's who of academics and bureaucrats , but surprisingly , includes no one from the productive part of the canadian economy . so much for pan-canadian input . the task force is reviewing work produced by smart prosperity , a government-funded institute whose membership overlaps with both the task force and the government 's own canadian institute for climate choices . this is a bureaucratic environmental ponzi scheme , with overlapping personnel and mandates . the only thing not overlapping is their funding . how many organizations does this government need to fund to recycle work produced by other redundant government-funded entities ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , as we know , our priority right now is the health and safety of canadians . just as science guides us in our response to covid-19 , it will continue to guide us in reducing pollution and fighting climate change . our priority is to support canadians during this period and we must also ensure our environmental , economic and physical well-being in the long term . mr. greg mclean : a notable member of the task force in question is one gerald butts . perhaps it 's just a coincidence , but can the prime minister confirm if this is the same gerald butts who was forced to resign as his principal secretary for his role in attempting to force canada 's then justice minister into breaking the law ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , since the beginning of this crisis , our priority has been to support canadians and their health and safety . we will continue to do so , because it is important that we get through this crisis by supporting canadians . mr. greg mclean : mr . chair , is this the same gerald butts who was paid $ 360,000 u.s. by an american-funded organization after he started working with the prime minister ? hon . mona fortier : once again , mr.chair , it is important to talk to canadians right now to tell them that we are putting their health and safety first . we will continue to do so . we are going through a crisis right now and we will support canadians . mr. greg mclean : mr . chair , is this the same gerald butts who , in his role as the principal secretary in the office of ontario 's then premier , advanced policies that now saddle ontarians with the highest energy costs in north america ? is this is the same gerald butts who weighed down ontario with the world 's highest subnational debt burden , all for the benefit of new green jobs that , notably , have never arrived ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , as we know , for the past two and a half months , we have been supporting canadians . we have put forward an economic program to help businesses , workers and canadians across the country . we will continue to make the health and safety of canadians a priority . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the mp for west nova , mr. d'entremont . mr. chris d'entremont : yesterday , the minister responsible for tourism , acoa and official languages was happy to close our national tourism week by announcing investments of $ 70 million to offset financial losses in the tourism industry across canada . where 's the big clap ? some hon . members : hear , hear ! mr. chris d'entremont : there you go , give her a clap . more than $ 70 million will be invested to support this sector and promote canadian destinations . southern ontario received $ 30 million , northern ontario received $ 7 million and western canada received $ 3.5 million . there 's nothing for atlantic canada yet . knowing that we just had an announcement from the minister of transport that there will be no cruise ships in atlantic canada or anywhere in canada this year , resulting in hundreds of millions of dollars in losses , where is the program for atlantic canada ? hon . mlanie joly ( minister of economic development and official languages ) : mr . chair , i commend my colleague for his important question . i know he 's a very strong advocate for the tourism sector in atlantic canada , so i want to reassure him . obviously , we want to support the tourism sector in atlantic canada . acoa has a clear direction to do just that . if he has any good ideas , please let him come forward and let 's have a conversation . meanwhile , atlantic canada will also be supported through destination canada . rather than doing marketing internationally , we will be supporting destination marketing organizations across the country , including in atlantic canada , to make sure that we launch this new movement to visit local . mr. chris d'entremont : that would be all great if we were n't in the middle of a pandemic and you ca n't even cross the nova scotia-new brunswick border without having to self-isolate for two weeks . it 's going to make travelling , through the maritimes at least , very difficult . in saint john , new brunswick , 79 cruise ships and more than 270,000 passengers will not be giving back to that local community . at home in nova scotia , it 's about 118 or 130 vessels . in terms of a minimum financial loss , $ 165 million will not be generated . there will be job losses and permanent closures of restaurants and boardwalk shops . prince edward island , which was expected to have a record attendance year , will lose visits of 97 ships and 154,000 passengers , and $ 60 million to the province 's economy will be lost . mr . chair , my question to the minister is this : who is acoa going to be working with , and what kinds of programs are going to be available to help them through this very difficult year ? hon . mlanie joly : i agree with my colleague . the sector is really impacted by the pandemic and the economic crisis . it is a bit like the canary in the coal mine ; it was the first impacted , and definitely it is still impacted . that 's why we are in close contact with tourism leaders and operators across the country . again , recently i had good conversations with the chambers of commerce all across atlantic canada , including hospitality newfoundland and labrador for the tourism sector . there is money for the tourism sector and tourism operators . they can have access to the wage subsidy . they wanted to have access to it until later in the summer , and it has been extended to the end of august . they have access to the rent relief program , the ceba and acoa funding . as mentioned many times in this chamber , mr . chair , if my colleague has clear examples to provide me , let 's work together . let 's make sure the money flows to these people , because they need it . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : you have only about a minute left , mr. d'entremont . mr. chris d'entremont : mr.chair , like the minister , last week , i spoke with simon-pierre poulin , the director of le franco newspaper in alberta , about the sauvons saint-jean movement . he asked me why we could not continue to work on official languages and on modernizing the act even though parliament is sitting in a different configuration . unfortunately , i had to explain to him that many restrictions were associated with the current format of this fake parliament . the pandemic is also threatening the protection of french in minority communities . the liberal government made a commitment to modernize the official languages act in the first six months of its mandate . how will it proceed ? hon . mlanie joly : mr.chair , it goes without saying that our two official languages are important and that , when it comes to language rights , we must always be on guard and protect what we have achieved . as for campus saint-jean , i am very aware of the issue . i had the opportunity to speak with my two counterparts in alberta late friday afternoon to tell them about our concerns and the need to protect the institution from drastic cuts . that was the first point . the second point is the modernization of the official languages act . i have the same concerns as my colleague . clearly , we must continue the conversations and find the right solutions . finally , we must be there to protect our language rights . if the member has good ideas , he can come to me to discuss them . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for chicoutimile fjord has the floor . mr. richard martel ( chicoutimile fjord , cpc ) : mr.chair , some people for whom the 15weeks of sickness benefits were not enough before the covid-19crisis now have to exhaust their regular employment insurance benefits before they are entitled to the cerb . today , i would like to know whether they will be able to exhaust their weeks of eligibility for the cerb after october3 . hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we ensured that those who switched over to the canada emergency response benefit would be covered by it , whether they were ei eligible or not . we are committed to supporting all of the workers who have been impacted by the covid-19 pandemic . mr. richard martel : according to a survey conducted by the universit du qubec trois-rivires ' research institute on small and medium size businesses , the saguenaylac-saint-jean region would be the most affected by the economic effects of covid-19 . this is not surprising . in fact , in our region , the tourism industry generates more than $ 300million in economic activity , including $ 58million for the cruise industry alone . the $ 70million that you announced yesterday is a very modest start . what does the government intend to do for the tourism industry in the regions ? hon . mlanie joly : mr.chair , it goes without saying that the tourism industry is indeed very much affected . that is why we are responding to their concerns and worries . we have therefore extended the emergency wage subsidy until the end of august . we are also providing the canada emergency commercial rent assistance , as well as the $ 40,000loans from the canada emergency business account . we have also just announced $ 70million in support for canada 's tourism sector . i am having good talks with various stakeholders in quebec , including martin soucy from the alliance de l'industrie touristique du qubec . in addition , we are going to do our part to support the tourism sector through economic development canada . mr. richard martel : mr.chair , the tourism industry in the saguenaylac-saint-jean region is the sum of all its stakeholders . many of these businesses are too small to receive the assistance announced by the federal government . overly restrictive standards will prevent some tourist accommodation from welcoming guests this year , even though they will have to pay their bills every month . what does the government plan to do to help the regions most affected economically ? hon . mlanie joly : i thank my colleague for his important question . what he is describing is the reason we are currently working on a game plan . we really want to be able to reach these small businesses , of which there are many in saguenaylac-saint-jean , in quebec and across the country . that is why the prime minister and the minister of finance have committed an additional $ 1billion to help those businesses that fall through the cracks . we need to respond now , and i will have more to say about it in the next few days . mr. richard martel : mr.chair , i was very disappointed to see that we had lost asparagus crops due to a labour shortage . when i spoke with the blueberry growers in my area , they told me they were concerned that the same thing could happen to them . some employers to whom we granted summer positions are not finding students to fill them . when will there be incentives to encourage people to work rather than disincentives ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we believe that the flexibilities we have introduced to the canada summer jobs program will enable more employers to use it , including more businesses , as well as help young people to acquire the necessary skills and benefits from this really important program . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr.martel , you have about a minute left . mr. richard martel : mr.chair , on may19 , the government said that it was studying several solutions to help business owners and entrepreneurs who operate their business using a personal bank account . when will the canada emergency business account be available to them ? hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : mr . chair , small businesses are the heart of all of our communities , and we 've been working really hard to help them . almost 650,000 small businesses have received the loan , which is really helping with those costs . we have more work to do to make sure that those other businesses also get access to this support . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to mr. epp , the member for chatham-kentleamington . mr. dave epp : thank you , mr . chair . i wish to congratulate my colleague , cathy mcleod . on tuesday , may 26 , she gained a new resident when brinnley lisette huby was born to parents adam and carina huby . carina is my daughter , and that makes brinnley my first grandchild and presently my favourite newest canadian . all are healthy , and i thank god for brinnley 's healthy arrival . some honourable members : hear , hear ! mr. dave epp : minister jordan , the freshwater fish marketing corporation is allowed access to the seafood stabilization fund , while you deny its competitor , our ontario fisheries that fish on the great lakes , the similar right to apply . minister , why ? hon . bernadette jordan ( south shorest . margarets , lib . ) : mr . chair , i want to thank my colleague for the very good question . the ontario inland fishers and the people in ontario are eligible for other programs that are offered through the regional development agencies . we are going to make sure that no industry is left behind when it comes to our fisheries . we 're making sure that we 're addressing the concerns of inland fisheries as well as coastal fisheries . those programs will be available to anyone who needs to apply through the rdas . mr. dave epp : minister , will you then direct these regional agencies to provide equitable funding equivalent to the seafood stabilization fund ? hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , we 're making sure that they have the same access to programs through the regional development agencies as there is through the seafood stabilization fund . we 're making sure that everyone who is in need of support through the programs will be able to access it . mr. dave epp : according to stats canada , before my granddaughter turns one year old , her share of the federal debt will be over $ 39,000 . what is minister morneau 's fiscal plan for canada so that the interest on this debt does n't cripple canada with higher taxes ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we realize that it 's always important to be responsible from a fiscal standpoint . we believe that the responsible approach today is to make investments to support canadians and to support businesses . in that way we can have jobs and we can get through this pandemic and have a strong economy and be able to continue with our approach to managing our economy in a responsible the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go back to mr. epp . mr. dave epp : minister , when can parliament , or this semblance of it , see that plan for economic prosperity ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : i would like to remind honourable members to direct their questions through the chair . the honourable minister may reply . hon . bill morneau : thank you , mr . chair . we 've been quite clear that we need to be transparent on a daily basis by giving canadians an understanding of the investments that we 're making through this pandemic . once the situation is more stable economically , we will certainly be coming forward with a broader plan . mr. dave epp : mr . chair , the canadian chamber of commerce said three months before the pandemic that this current government 's level of spending and incurring of debt is untenable and that future generations , like my granddaughter , will have to pay for it . how much more debt is the minister planning to incur ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , coming into this pandemic in a strong fiscal position with the lowest amount of debt among the g7 countries is a function of our economy that 's afforded us the opportunity to invest on behalf of canadians . we will continue to take that approach . we believe that 's the responsible thing to do through the course of this challenge . mr. dave epp : what is the budget for stopping illegal american guns from getting through our borders ? hon . marc garneau ( minister of transport ) : mr . chair , i thank the member for the question . i can tell you that we have invested considerable amounts of money and have earmarked ongoing monies to ensure that we address the issue of illegal guns passing across the border . we realize the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go back to mr. epp . mr. dave epp : what 's the budget , then , to fight government-trained and licensed canadians in the court challenge that 's now been triggered ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will go to the honourable minister . we 're not getting any audio . mr. dave epp : i have a point of order , mr . chair . could i have some more time , please ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : yes . we 're just going to hold time here momentarily , mr. epp . hon . marc garneau : i apologize , mr . chair . could i ask for the question to be repeated , please ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr. epp , what is your question again ? mr. dave epp : what is the budget for fighting the government-trained and licensed people who are now triggering a lawsuit against your order in council ? hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , i do n't have the answer to that question , but obviously the government will defend its position . mr. dave epp : mr . chair , covid-19 has exacerbated the problem of this government 's policy of spending the cupboards bare in good times instead of planning for a rainy dayand folks , we 're in a storm . unlike this government , municipalities can not by law say put it on the tab for the next generation . the balanced budget requirements force them to choose between slashed services and drastic tax hikes . the federation of canadian municipalities says they need $ 10 billion in targeted emergency operating funding , so do municipalities slash services , do they raise taxes , or will we be there for the municipalities ? hon . chrystia freeland : our government absolutely understands the crucial role municipalities play as the engine of our economy at all times , and particularly today , as in many parts of the country we are looking to restart the economy . that is why the prime minister announced just this morning that we will be accelerating payments under the gas tax fund . municipalities will receive the full amount of their 2020-21 payment on june 10 . this will help them with some of their near-term liquidity issues . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 're now going to mr. manly , the member for nanaimoladysmith . mr. manly , go ahead . mr. paul manly ( nanaimoladysmith , gp ) : thank you , mr . chair . the canada emergency commercial rent assistance program is not helping enough small businesses . many landlords do not want to take part in the program . small businesses are requesting that they be able to apply without the landlord 's participation . many small businesses do not meet the 70 % income-loss threshold . many did their best to keep employees engaged and tried hard to not lose clients , as the government urged them to do . they are , in fact , being penalized for that effort . thousands of business owners across the country will not be able to pay their rent today and risk closing permanently . will the government push the provinces to include an eviction moratorium during the pandemic and make this commercial rent assistance program more flexible to ensure small businesses can survive ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , i 'd like to thank the honourable member for the question , which recognizes the very serious challenge that many small businesses are facing during the course of this pandemic . we know that the programs we 've put forward , programs like the emergency business account , are supporting businesses , but the emergency rent approach , on which we 've worked together with provinces , can also help significantly . we are seeing a significant number of landlords and tenants coming forward with this and taking this up . i would encourage landlords to use this program , which is supporting them . of course , the suggestion from the member that provinces take action in restricting evictions is one that i 've been speaking about to ministers of finance from the provinces over the course of the last couple of months . this is an area of provincial jurisdiction . we are supportive and working hard to make sure this program works . mr. paul manly : mr . chair , this week marks the 31st anniversary of the tiananmen square massacre , and we are currently seeing repression of the democracy movement in hong kong . we know that communist china oppresses minority groups and does not respect human rights . in spite of this knowledge , the harper conservative government signed a lopsided and anti-democratic investment treaty with china in 2012 , the canada-china fipa . this conservative deal gave chinese state-owned corporations extraordinary powers to challenge our democratic decisions through a secretive private tribunal system . in the years since the fipa was signed , with no vote in parliament , chinese state-owned corporations have been purchasing canadian assets and resources . these corporations can seek financial compensation from canadian taxpayers for the loss of potential profit when our laws and policies get in the way of their profit-taking . can the government tell us whether any of these chinese corporations has threatened to use the anti-democratic investor-state provisions of the fipa to seek financial compensation from canadian taxpayers ? hon . franois-philippe champagne : as i 'm sure the member will know , canada is setting up with its allies around the world to protect the freedom and democracy that has been enjoyed by the people in hong kong . as he knows , we have issued a declaration with a number of allies we have called upon to make sure that measures remain in place to protect the freedom and liberty of the people of hong kong . we know that the one country , two systems treaty system has provided the framework under which the people of hong kong have been able to create an economy that is resilient and has made hong kong a place where people want to do business , commerce and trade . mr . chair , we have expressed our deep concern . i would refer the member to the joint statement we have issued with the united states , australia and the united kingdom . we have spoken with one voice and we have said we have deep concerns that the actions by beijing , if they were to proceed with this national security law unilaterally , would undermine the bedrock of what has made hong kong , and that we will review the impact that the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr. manly , you have about 45 seconds left . go ahead ; there 's time for a short question . mr. paul manly : that was a trick question , because this anti-democratic agreement states that we would n't be able to have permission to disclose that information if there was , in fact , an investor-state dispute . unlike nafta , which had a six-month period for renegotiation , the harper conservatives locked us into a 15-year agreement with the fipa and this anti-democratic agreement . will the government re-engage the special committee on canada-china relations so we can do a thorough investigation of this conservative sellout of canadian democracy the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we are out of time , mr. manly . we 'll go to the minister for a response . hon . mary ng : thank you , mr . chair . canada will always pursue trade in the interest of canadians , and we are in the process of reviewing our fipa agreements so those agreements can provide the right framework for canadians to trade , with the interests of canadians always top of mind . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 're now going to ms. ashton in churchillkeewatinook aski . ms. ashton , go ahead with your question . ms. niki ashton ( churchillkeewatinook aski , ndp ) : mr . chair , i 'll be splitting my time with the member for victoria . my question is to the minister of fisheries . this pandemic has hit canadians hard . import markets for our fish have dried up . this is devastating for inland fisheries . the season opened last week , and fishers are desperate for support . for indigenous fishers , fishing sustains their communities . it is their way of life . will the government work with the freshwater fish marketing corporation and inland fishers to develop and facilitate the delivery of an emergency package that works for them and find ways to redirect product to domestic markets , including communities facing food insecurity now ? hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , we 've recognized how hard the pandemic has hit our fishers and our fishing sector . we 've made available a number of different measures . one of the things we 're doing primarily is the harvesters ' benefit , which allows all harvesters to take advantage of a benefit as well as a grant contribution to help them get through . we 're also changing ei so they can now qualify for their ei benefits based on previous seasons , not this one , recognizing they 're going to face challenges this year . the freshwater fish marketing board is a crown corporation . we know it 's been a very difficult time for them . we are continuing to look at ways we can address the challenges within the industry and we 'll continue to work with them to make sure we are addressing those needs . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : ms. ashton , we have about one minute left . there 's time for a short question . go ahead . ms. niki ashton : my question is to the minister of transport . canadians are being ripped off by airlines that are refusing to give passengers their money back . airlines are profiting off canadians during a very desperate time . this government has sat by while the canadian transportation agency issued a statement to back up the airlines ' appalling actions . what is this government doing to fix this ? why are n't they ensuring that public funds involve reimbursing passengers and an equity stake for canadians ? hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , i certainly recognize the very difficult situation and the frustration of canadians who would have preferred a refund . at the same time , at this point if airlines were required to immediately reimburse all the cancelled tickets , it would have a devastating effect on the airlines . that is why the canadian transportation agency , which is an independent body , recommended that vouchers be issued and that they have a reasonable time to be usedtwo years . it is also very important to bear in mind that as we begin to exit this pandemic , we must still have an airline industry in this country . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : now we 're going to the honourable member for victoria , ms. collins . please go ahead . ms. laurel collins ( victoria , ndp ) : mr . chair , in victoria housing and homelessness were at a crisis point long before the pandemic hit , but now people are particularly vulnerable to covid-19 . if you do n't have a place to live , you do n't have the luxury of following public health advice and staying home . as part of the recovery , will this government be increasing funding to build or buy the housing needed to address homelessness ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , very early in the response to the covid-19 pandemic , our government provided $ 157.5 million directly to 51 community entities to respond directly to the needs of homeless canadians . we also provided $ 50 million in additional money to women 's shelters . we are continuing with the national housing strategy . we are providing supports to communities and ngos , as well as municipalities that are moving projects forward . ms. laurel collins : mr . chair , the federal government allocated just $ 1.3 million in reaching home funds to my region . while the province has stepped up , it cost them $ 18.5 million to purchase just one hotel in victoria . the federal funding is clearly inadequate . is the government going to show some leadership and at least match the provincial funds ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we moved very quickly . the $ 157.5 million , i must note , was additional money on top of the base funding that we provide every year to address the needs of canada 's most vulnerable . in addition to that , our projects under the national housing strategy are continuing . we are providing leadership . we are trusting the community entities to make the decisions on where the funding goes and to respond in a way that meets the the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : ms. collins , you have about 40 seconds left , which is time for a short question . go ahead . ms. laurel collins : the minister mentioned the national housing strategy . this government 's national housing strategy reduces the level of targeted funding for lower-income households , according to the parliamentary budget officer . my question is simple : coming out of the pandemic in the coming months , is the government going to increase housing funding to address the immediate need , yes or no ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , i disagree with the honourable member . our money is targeted to communities . they have community advisory boards that decide how to spend the money . if the ndp does not trust local communities to make decisions , they should say so . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : i now invite the hon . member for joliette , mr.ste-marie , to take the floor . go ahead , mr.ste-marie . mr. gabriel ste-marie ( joliette , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . regardless of the covid-19 pandemic , the last time i checked , we still had a democratic system and the government had to remain accountable . the government needs to present a picture of the economic situation and a picture of its overall emergency measures . does the government intend to extend the measures over the summer ? if so , how will it do so ? the government must also present its working scenarios for the economic recovery . the government needs to be transparent . when will the government provide its economic update ? hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , i would like to thank the hon . member for his questions . i agree , it is very important to be transparent and to provide the necessary information to canadians . every day , we announce measures , of course , but also the cost of the measures and the amount of the investments . it is very important . the challenge at the moment is the economic situation , which is very fluid . when the situation is more stable , we will have the opportunity to give an economic update . mr. gabriel ste-marie : in my opinion , mr.chair , it will really be too late to do the economic update when things are more stable . we have been asking for an economic update for the past month . even the parliamentary budget officer has been urging the government to table an economic update in a timely manner . with only three weeks left in the house before the summer , the clock is ticking . the quebec government will table its economic update later this month . will the federal government follow suit ? hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , let me confirm that we will continue to be transparent about the investments ; it is very important . of course , each day we work to make sure we have a solid grasp of the economic situation . as i said , when the situation is a little more stable , we will have the opportunity to explain our situation with an economic update . mr. gabriel ste-marie : once again , mr.chair , when the situation is more stable , it will be too late to do an economic update ; instead we will have to table a budget with the recovery in mind . speaking of the recovery , the parliamentary budget officer is surprised that the government is calling on the private sector for ideas for its recovery plan . mr.giroux points out that this government has thousands of public servants with very good ideas , and he adds that the government can also ask for the opposition parties ' views . that would be a very good idea . why is the government contracting out the development of its recovery plan to the private sector ? hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , i would like to tell the hon . member that it is important to listen to what we are trying to do , and to listen to people 's ideas and opinions , not only in parliament , but also from our society . so we keep listening . of course , with our approach , we will address the economic recovery in a way that will ensure we can maintain our very strong position . mr. gabriel ste-marie : mr.chair , we are still surprised that the government has contracted out its recovery plan to the private sector . the sooner the government tables its recovery plan , the better . businesses and individuals would start gaining confidence in the economy again . it would help them to loosen the purse strings and be assured that there will be economic life after the pandemic . again , that is what the parliamentary budget officer says . can the government tell us when it will table its recovery plan ? hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , we feel it is very important to consider what we need to do in each phase of our recovery . at this time , it is necessary to consider the public health situation and the gradual reopening of our economy . that is why we feel our approach aims for a safe recovery . obviously , by gathering more information in phase3 , we will be able to consider more than one approach to recovery . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr.ste-marie , you have about 30seconds left . mr. gabriel ste-marie : thank you . i understand that the exact date for tabling the recovery plan may be difficult to determine at this time . can the minister tell us whether he currently intends to table the recovery plan in a month ending in ber ? if not , will it be before or after that ? hon . bill morneau : we continue to work with the provinces on an approach to determine the timing of the recovery , and we are also listening to our colleagues in parliament , of course . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 're now going to the honourable member for abbotsford , mr. fast . hon . ed fast ( abbotsford , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . the prime minister continues to pander to the communist regime in china . we were shocked to hear that his own minister of digital government used wechat , a chinese social media site , to raise funds to sue a global news reporterfor what ? it was for daring to expose china 's attempt to hoard ppe during the covid crisis . is it the practice of the government to support lawsuits against canadian reporters who challenge the hostile actions of the regime in china , and will the prime minister now condemn the actions of the digital government minister ? hon . steven guilbeault : mr . chair , we value the important work of media across the country and the world . attacking the integrity of hard-working journalists is not acceptable . as many members on all sides of the house know , wechat is a social media platform used to engage and share information with the chinese-canadian community . participation in this group , much like facebook , is guided by posted guidelines and a disclaimer . in this case , the individual who violated the guidelines of the group is no longer a part of that group . hon . ed fast : mr . chair , canadians have no reason to trust the prime minister on anything to do with china , especially when it comes to trade policy . two and a half years ago , the prime minister travelled to china to commence free trade negotiations , and the talks ended up in complete failure and embarrassment . still the prime minister continues to cozy up to the chinese regime , refusing to ban huawei from our 5g network or to speak out convincingly against china 's oppression in hong kong . meanwhile , the two michaels are continuing to languish in chinese jails . this is the kind of partner the prime minister wants to negotiate a trade agreement with . can the minister tell us whether at any time during the last six months the prime minister or anyone else in his government has had discussions with china about a free trade agreement ? a simple yes or no will do . hon . mary ng : mr . chair , as you know , canada has a complex and multi-dimensional relationship with china . canada will continue to engage with china with eyes wide open . any work that we do on trade and on all matters will always be in the interests of canadians first . hon . ed fast : i think canadians will see that the minister did n't even answer a simple yes-or-no question , so i 'll ask her a simpler yes-or-no question . is she or anyone else in her government presently discussing or negotiating a free trade agreement with china , yes or no ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , we will always do our work , including any discussions on trade and indeed all of our work , with the interests of canadians and canadian businesses as our absolute top priority . hon . ed fast : again , there was no answer , so i 'll try again . will the minister now assure canadians that she and the prime minister 's government will not negotiate a free trade agreement with china , yes or no ? hon . mary ng : any work that we do will always be guided by the best interests of canadians and canadian businesses . hon . ed fast : mr . chair , i am just flabbergasted . this minister has been asked three times if the government is negotiating a trade agreement . she refuses to answer , so i 'll try again . will the minister tell us why she thinks negotiating a trade agreement with a hostile country like china is in canada 's best interests ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , i thank the honourable member for the question . the answer is no . hon . ed fast : mr . chair , i just want to make sure . free trade is a good thing when it takes place between like-minded countries that embrace free market principles and apply the rule of law . china is not such a country . in fact , china repeatedly flouts international trade rules , illegally dumps underpriced goods into canada , and prevents canadian canola , beef and pork from entering china . is has also jailed canadians without due process . will the minister now assure us that our government will not negotiate any free trade agreements with china , yes or no ? hon . mary ng : we are not in discussions with china on a free trade agreement , and as my colleagues , including the prime minister and the foreign minister , have said many times in this house and outside of this house , our priority continues to be the immediate release of canadians detained in china . we will always work in the interests of canadians and canadian businesses . that is what we will always do . </s>
<s> summarize the debate about the flaws in government ` s pandemic relief program . </s> hon . andrew scheer ( leader of the opposition ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . when the government first starting rolling out programs to help canadians get through this pandemic , we raised points about some flaws and gaps in the program . the government assured canadians that it would fix these programs as time went on . well , canadians are suffering through both the health and the economic consequences of the lockdown related to the coronavirus . here we are the first day of june and the government still has yet to address the flaws in its programs ; it is still letting so many canadians down . i have a series of very straightforward and specific questions . on april 20 we raised with the minister of finance the issue of companies that had purchased another company not being able to demonstrate revenue loss , and therefore not being eligible for the wage subsidy , even though both companies separately would have been able to do just that . we have raised it several times now . i would like to ask the government when it will be fixing this unnecessarily rigid aspect of the wage subsidy program . hon . chrystia freeland ( deputy prime minister and minister of intergovernmental affairs ) : mr . chair , i believe that a company with a fantastic canadian history in the member 's riding , brandt tractor , which pioneered the manufacturing of augers in canada , is particularly affected by this . it is very important for us that the wage subsidy be available to as many canadian companies as possible . it helps to keep employees connected to their businesses . now , there are always some specific issues that can make it challenging for particular companies . i know that in the case of brandt tractor , for example , officials from the ministry of finance are directly in touch with the company to work on its issues . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , that 's the same answer we got last week . it 's the same answer we got two weeks before that , and it 's the same answer we have been getting from day one . this is a very simple question . the government has indicated that it will change this program to allow for amalgamations . the solution is very simple . it is to also allow for those companies that have undergone acquisitions . this is a very specific question : will the government fix this program and allow for companies that have acquired another company to still access the wage subsidy program ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , let me just point out that the wage subsidy program is working extremely well for many , many canadian companies and for many , many canadians who are able to keep their jobs thanks to the program . more than two million canadian workers are today benefiting from the wage subsidy program . by any measure that is a successful program . now , for sure there are always going to be companies which , because of specifics in their history , need specific attention , and that the chair : we 'll go back to mr. scheer . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , reports indicate that up to half of the money allocated for the wage subsidy is going unspent , precisely because this government has left in unnecessarily rigid barriers for companies to be able to access it . it 's a yes-or-no question , and the minister still ca n't answer it . along the same lines , we asked on april 8 to allow businesses applying for the wage subsidy to demonstrate their 30 % revenue loss using other metrics , such as loss of earnings , subscriptions and orders , in order to qualify . they still ca n't do that today , the first day of june . why has n't the government addressed this part of the program ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , we are very proud of the wage subsidy program and proud of the role it is playing to keep canadian businesses going and , crucially , to keep canadian workers connected to their jobs , but i have a question for the member opposite . half of the questions we hear from the conservatives in question period are concerns that we 're spending too much money , that the deficit is too high . the other half of the time they complain about specific companies not getting access to our programs . we know which side we 're on as a government . i 'd like the conservatives to let canadians know what they believe in . the chair : mr. scheer , you may have a short question . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , it 's quite clear what conservatives believe in . we believe that when times were good , this government should have paid down debt instead of wasting money like $ 50 million to mastercard and $ 12 million to loblaws . the fact of the matter is that the government left canadians in a vulnerable position as we were entering this pandemic precisely because of its fiscal irresponsibility , and now they have designed programs that have unnecessary barriers in them that prevent more and more canadians from getting the help they need . again , on april 26 , conservatives asked the prime minister to change the criteria for the canada emergency business account so that small businesses that do n't happen to have a business bank account can qualify . why has n't the prime minister made that change either ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i 'm really grateful for that question because it allows me to set the record straight for canadians . canadians need to know that our country has the lowest debt-to-gdp ratio in the g7 . we had that before the crisis began , and we still do . canada has the fiscal firepower to support canadians during this unprecedented crisis , and that is what we are going to continue to do . the chair : mrs.debellefeuille . mrs. claude debellefeuille ( salaberrysurot , bq ) : mr.chair , the wage subsidy was put in place to support businesses and smes , to avoid closures and bankruptcy . have i missed something ? is the liberal party on the verge of bankruptcy ? is it about to shut down ? does the prime minister consider that the liberal party is getting ready to close its doors ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i thank the hon . member for the question . i want to point out that , as the hon . member said , the wage subsidy was really put in place to protect workers across canada . we are proud of that . more than 2million canadians have benefited from this the chair : mrs.debellefeuille , you have the floor . mrs. claude debellefeuille : mr.chair , the liberal party made $ 3million between january and march of this year . that 's $ 3million in political donations . we 're told that the emergency subsidy is being used to protect the jobs of liberal party employees . i 'm not an accountant , but i can count . i 'm wondering why the liberal party does n't use its own money to pay its own employees instead of using the canada emergency wage subsidy . hon . chrystia freeland : i thank the hon . member for her question . i would like to point out again that the purpose of the canada emergency wage subsidy is to support workers across canada and quebec , to help them keep their jobs and allow them to stay connected to their workplace . that is what we 've done . more than 2million canadians are benefiting from this important and truly essential program for our country . we are proud of it . mrs. claude debellefeuille : mr.chair , does the deputy prime minister think it is moral , fair and honest that employees who have lost their jobs are subsidizing an emergency wage subsidy for the liberal party of canada out of their taxes ? hon . chrystia freeland : our programs do not discriminate . they are there to help all workers . the hon . member talked about businesses and sectors that need more help . we agree . there is still a lot to do , but we want to work with all the the chair : mrs.debellefeuille . mrs. claude debellefeuille : mr.chair , many struggling businesses in quebec do n't have access to the canada emergency wage subsidy because they do n't meet the eligibility criteria . many tourism and municipal organizations , among others , do n't have access to this wage subsidy . however , it 's very clear that the liberal party qualifies according to the program criteria . does the deputy prime minister really think it 's moral for her party to benefit from the emergency wage subsidy when it has the financial means to pay its own employees ? hon . chrystia freeland : i thank the hon . member for her question . i agree that there is still a lot to do . we are ready , and we are taking action . however , it 's important to point out that our government has already done a lot to support canadians . we 've spent $ 152billion in direct support measures to canadians . more than eightmillion people are benefiting from the cerb , and more than twomillion the chair : mrs.debellefeuille , you have the floor . mrs. claude debellefeuille : mr.chair , what i understand is not really complicated to understand . i understand that the liberal party has money , that it has money to pay its employees , but that it does n't want to cut the booty it has amassed for the next election . it 's as if it were telling us that it 's indirectly financing itself for the next election . will the deputy prime minister show some leadership and convince her own party to give up the emergency wage subsidy and even commit to paying back the money it has already received ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i want to point out that our programs do not discriminate . they are there to help all workers across the country , and i want to point out to what extent our programs do that . eight million people are currently benefiting from the cerb , and two million are supported by the emergency wage subsidy . our programs are also helping 380,000students and 639,000businesses the chair : we 'll now continue with mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . canadians and people across the world are reeling after seeing the images of george floyd being brutally killed in a callous and casual manner . we 're struggling with the impacts of anti-black racism . anti-black racism has n't just appeared or increased . it 's now simply being captured by video . canada is also no different . anti-black racism also impacts canada , and people here are feeling the frustration of black lives being neglected and ignored . will the government commit to tracking race-based data in terms of covid-19 's impact on communities , particularly black canadians , and track race-based data so that we can have a better response based on the evidence ? </s>
<s> how did racism and long-term care related to government 's policy ? </s> mr. jagmeet singh : thank you for that openness on the part of the government . i want more and clear commitments . we also know that race-based or discriminatory police practices still exist across canada . will the government commit to working with provinces to ensure there are no such practices allowed to exist in canada , particularly related to discriminatory police practices like carding ? will the federal government work and use its powers to end those discriminatory practices where federal regulation applies , and work with the provinces to ensure this happens across the country ? hon . chrystia freeland : thank you again for that very important question . first of all , on coronavirus , our government believes that disaggregated data , including when it comes to race , is extremely important . we 're working with our provincial partners on that . on policing , racial profiling is unacceptable and unlawful . we will always work to uphold the canadian charter of rights and freedoms and to ensure the human rights of everyone in canada are protected . at the federal level , rcmp members are guided by bias-free policing based on equality and non-discrimination . mr. jagmeet singh : i want to change tracks , mr . chair , and talk about long-term care . how many times did the prime minister 's office and the liberal government meet with lobbyists from for-profit long-term care homes from march 25 to april 22 , during the worst impacts of covid-19 in long-term care homes ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , at this moment i can only speak for myself , and i have not met with any such lobbyists during that period or at other times . i share the member opposite 's concerns about long-term care facilities in canada . we have to do better , and we will . mr. jagmeet singh : it was 12 times during the worst impacts of covid-19 . while seniors were dying in long-term care homes , the prime minister 's office and the liberal government met with private , for-profit long-term care home lobbyists 12 times . why did the prime minister 's office and the liberal government choose to meet with these for-profit long-term care home lobbyists instead of meeting with those to solve the problem ? instead of making excuses about the federal government not playing a role , why did n't the prime minister and the liberal government show leadership in calling for an end to profit in long-term care homes ? hon . chrystia freeland : let me very clear about one thing , speaking on behalf of our government and on behalf of the prime minister . our government sees as a matter of utmost concern and utmost urgency what has been happening in long-term care homes in our country , and the reports we have received from the brave men and women of the canadian armed forces about facilities in ontario and quebec need to be treated as historic documents that </s>
<s> summarize the questioning about canada summer jobs program . </s> the chair : now it 's mr.rayes 's turn . mr.rayes , you have the floor . mr. alain rayes : mr.chair , why is it that employers from industry , businesses and community organizations that have been approved in the canada summer jobs program still have n't received the money they 're entitled to ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : we are ensuring that the canada summer jobs program is strengthened and enforced . we are making it more available to more students . we have lengthened the time period that the program the chair : mr.rayes has the floor . mr. alain rayes : every day , the prime minister makes announcements in front of his residence . i 'll repeat my question . given the importance of the program for our youth who are looking to work , how is it that the organizations have n't yet received the money they need to hire students ? as we know , there have been some problems with the cesb . hon . ahmed hussen : our government is working hard to help employers adapt to the realities of covid-19 . we recognize the important role that the canada summer jobs program plays in supporting employers and young workers in communities across the country every year . that is why we have introduced flexibilities in the canada summer jobs program to hire youth while providing more supports to employers . mr. alain rayes : the minister can say whatever he wants . last year , there was no crisis and , as of april , all employers who had been admitted to the program had received the money . we are currently in a crisis . the government is trying to respond quickly to the needs . right now , community organizations are not receiving the money to which they are entitled to hire students , to put them to work and to give them an employment opportunity . why ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we have managed to introduce flexibilities to take into consideration the difficult environment of the covid-19 pandemic . as such , the flexibilities we 've introduced into the canada summer jobs program will help with more hiring of youth and more supports to employers , including non-profits and businesses that deliver essential services to canadians . these changes will help small businesses hire and keep the workers that they need in the canada summer jobs program . mr. alain rayes : the young people and employers listening to us must be very surprised by what the minister is saying . he mentioned that the rules are now more flexible . however , it is taking a month and a half longer than last year . the money has not yet been given out . i have done my homework . i went to see what was happening in my riding and in about 10other ridings . last year , in my riding , all the money had been deposited before april . right now , there is a $ 240,000shortfall for about 60student jobs , and the minister has the nerve to tell us that the government has provided more flexibility . why is the money not available if the government wants to act quickly , to help the economy recover and to help young people ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , indeed we are acting quickly . we are listening to the needs of the employers to make sure that this program works not only for them but also for youth , and that it gives them the experiences they need . it is adapted better for the covid-19 pandemic to ensure that youth have the experience they need to gain life and work skills from the program . it 's a great program , and we 're making it work not just for businesses but also for non-profits . mr. alain rayes : here is the reality . last week , the owner of a hardware store in a village in my riding had to close his business because he was unable to hire students and had no one to work . this morning , an employer called me to tell me that his request to hire a student had been accepted , but that the delay meant that he could not proceed with the hiring . this means that one more young person will not have a job . that young person will therefore have to receive the cesb . there is the reality . when is the government going to release the money required for young people to be able to work ? </s>
<s> summarize the questioning about the local production of surgical masks , protective gowns and n95 masks . </s> the chair : we 'll now continue with ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : thank you , mr . chair . by its own numbers , pspc has had to cut the number of n95 masks the government has on order after cancelling contracts with companies that were not able to meet canadian standards . we know that companies right here in canada were willing to step up and fill in the gap . will the minister commit to making domestic production of ppe , including n95 masks , a priority ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . anita anand ( minister of public services and procurement ) : mr . chair , our priority is to make sure that we get safe and effective equipment and supplies into the hands of front-line health care workers . we 've been running multiple complementary supply chains at the same time . building up domestic capacity is indeed a priority . we have a contract with medicom in montreal for the production of n95 masks and we will continue to work hard to ensure the chair : we 'll go back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : mr . chair , novo textiles , a company in my riding , has retooled its factory to produce surgical masks in response to the shortage of ppe in canada . additionally , it will soon be producing quality made-in-canada n95 masks using canadian designs and canadian-made machinery . my constituent has invested his own capital and is in active production supplying front-line workers right now , not just talking about it . however , the company 's application to ngen was recently rejected . canada needs masks now , masks that meet canadian standards . is the government serious about growing domestic production capacity , or is it all talk and no action ? hon . anita anand : in reality , we have received 101.3 million surgical masks that are being distributed out to provinces and territories . we have signed 24 contracts with domestic companies for the production of ppe right here at home . we are working very hard , mr . chair , to make sure canadian front-line health care workers have exactly what they need to fight this pandemic . ms. nelly shin : mr . chair , how many of these have received financial support from the government ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , i 'm not quite sure what the member is referring to by how many of these , but as i said , we have signed 24 contracts with domestic the chair : we 'll have to go back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : where are these manufacturers located ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , we have surgical masks being produced right here at home , as well as abroad , being brought into canada the chair : back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : what provinces are they in ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , as i said , we have a contract with general motors for the production of surgical masks the chair : ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : are there any in any provinces besides ontario and quebec ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , we have contracts with multiple provinces throughout this country for the production of personal protective equipment . we are committed the chair : back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : how many of these domestic manufacturers rely on supply chains in china ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , we are dealing with a situation of very high global demand for the same product . as a result , we the chair : we 'll go back to ms. shin . ms. nelly shin : will the minister commit to providing my office with answers to these questions ? thank you . hon . anita anand : i will commit , mr . chair , to continuing to work hard for canadians to supply the personal protective equipment that they need . we have been giving updated numbers on our website </s>
<s> what did the opposition party and the minister debated about transparency of information during pandemic crisis ? </s> mr. john brassard ( barrieinnisfil , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . last week the president of the treasury board wrote a letter to his cabinet colleagues in which he said that , as the federal minister responsible for public access to government information , he has advised his cabinet colleagues of the need for transparency and accountability , even in times of crisis . my question is for the minister of infrastructure and communities . does she agree with the president of the treasury board 's directive ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . steven guilbeault ( minister of canadian heritage ) : mr . chair , the government remains committed to maintaining the openness and transparency of our government during this challenging time . the government of canada , along with provincial and territorial governments , have implemented exceptional workplace measures to curb the spread of covid-19 , and to protect the health and safety of federal employees . these measures have had an impact on institutions ' abilities to respond to access to information and personal information requests , since most employees are now working from their homes . mr. john brassard : frankly , i 'm surprised that the answer is coming from that minister when the minister of infrastructure and communities is in the house , but i will ask this question . can the minister tell canadians who pierre lavalle is ? hon . steven guilbeault : treasury board secretariat has provided guidance to institutions to continue to make the best efforts to respond to access to information act and privacy act requests and to provide published content the chair : we 'll go back to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : can the minister of infrastructure and communities tell us who pierre lavalle is ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . catherine mckenna ( minister of infrastructure and communities ) : mr . chair , of course . pierre lavalle was the former ceo of the canada infrastructure bank . we are very proud that we now have michael sabia as the new chair of the infrastructure bank . he did a fabulous job in montreal at the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : can the minister tell me how long mr. lavalle was the ceo of the infrastructure bank ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , i ca n't give you the exact months . he was the ceo of the canada infrastructure bank since the beginning , but let 's be clear : crown corporations work at arm 's length from the government and must have the chair : we 'll return to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : can i ask the minister how well she knows her file : 50 % , 75 % or 100 % ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , that 's quite a condescending little comment . i 'd like to say that i know my file very well . what i know is that canadians want infrastructure built , they want it built across the country , in the member opposite 's riding and in ridings across the country . they want cleaner , healthier , more connected some hon . members : hear , hear ! the chair : we 'll go back to mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : how much of the $ 35 billion of infrastructure money that was allocated to that bank has been spent so far ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , the infrastructure bank is a new , more flexible financing model for infrastructure investments . it was set up ; it is now in its new phase . we 're very excited that it 's going to be moving forwardand stay tuned . mr. john brassard : in the context of mr. duclos ' advice to his cabinet colleagues about openness and transparency , i 'd like to ask the minister how much mr. lavalle was paid annually . hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , as i said , crown corporations work at arm 's length from the government . our government follows the privacy act and the access to information act when it comes to employee compensation , but remuneration ranges are publicly available . i 'd note that this information for the bank 's ceos has been in the public domain the chair : mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : mr . chair , i 'm asking the minister how much mr. lavalle made . there was no answer to that . if it is in the public realm , she should know that . she said she knows her file very well . how much of a bonus was mr. lavalle paid recently when he left on april 2 ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , i am not involved in hr discussions when it comes to the canada infrastructure bank and mr. lavalle . crown corporations work at arm 's length from the government . they need to have flexibility to meet their commercial mandates . as i say , the information about salary ranges is publicly available , but personal hr the chair : mr. brassard . mr. john brassard : mr . chair , could you stop my ... ? i 'm hearing ... . the chair : i would ask those of us virtually to mute . mr. brassard , there is about 15 seconds left . i 'll cue you for a very short question . mr. john brassard : thank you , mr . chair . according to a table , mr. lavalle could have received a bonus after year one of zero to 75 % of his base salary , which was $ 510,000 to $ 600,000 per year ; or in year two , which he was in , zero to 120 % of his base salary . how much of a bonus did he receive ? </s>
<s> how was the reopening of the house of commons related to the diplomatic relations of canada ? </s> hon . michael chong ( wellingtonhalton hills , cpc ) : thank you , chair . parliament 's now been suspended for three months , since friday , march 13 . will the government commit to reopening the house of commons with its full powers , with social distancing , on monday , september 21 ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . pablo rodriguez ( leader of the government in the house of commons ) : mr . chair , as my colleague knows , we 're meeting here four days a week , with questions on any topic for an hour and 35 minutes instead of 45 minutes a day . democracy is as important for us as it is for the opposition . hon . michael chong : mr . chair , this committee is neutered . it has no powers to introduce supply day motions , no powers to test government confidence , no powers to do the usual things that parliament does . at times of crisis , the bedrock principles of rule of law and democracy are tested , and our democratic principles are buckling under the pressure from this government . they came to office promising greater transparency , but they broke almost every one of their promises . they broke their promise on electoral reform . they appointed an anti-conservative organization , unifor , to the media bailout fund . in the last parliament , they tried to give the pmo control over this legislature in motion no . 6 , and in the last election , they rigged the leaders ' debates in their favour , and now they have suspended parliament . instead of this neutered committee that meets for only a few days with a few members , will the government commit to the full re-opening of this house with all its powers with social distancing on monday , september 21 ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr.chair , the government 's objective is always to try to resume parliament as it was before . today , we have to live with this pandemic , but we will do everything we can to return to a normal situation as quickly as possible . that is clear and precise . the opposition asked for more time , especially to ask questions , and that is what it got . i would like my colleague to tell me one thing . over the past few weeks , we have sent suggestions to opposition members about the operation of parliament and they have never responded . i would like to know why . hon . michael chong : mr . chair , the full parliament with its full powers sat through two world wars , previous pandemics and the october crisis in 1970 . the governments of those days did not seek the suspension of the house . the government is not only failing to defend democracy here but also abroad . it ca n't utter the word taiwan . it is failing to be strong and clear on hong kong and , while the situation today is not that of decades past , it is clear that canada in the past stood for the rights of people in hong kong . canada needs to take much stronger diplomatic action on hong kong . there are some 300,000 canadians living there , and they are looking for the government 's support . when will this government act ? when will it threaten economic sanctions like the u.s. administration has ? when will it provide asylum and a clear path to citizenship like the u.k. government has ? when will it speak up against the communist party of china 's united front workers operating here in this country ? when will it do like australia did in calling for an international investigation of covid-19 , and organize an international coalition of like-minded democracies to defend hong kongers and the violation of the sino-british treaty ? the chair : the honourable minister . </s>
<s> why was the advance payment program delayed ? </s> mr. larry maguire ( brandonsouris , cpc ) : mr . chair , farmers have contacted my office about the massive delays with processing the advance payment program loans . some put their applications in almost two months ago , and not a dollar has flowed . what 's the point of having an advance payment program if there 's no payment ? can the minister of agriculture tell us when these delays will end ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . marie-claude bibeau ( minister of agriculture and agri-food ) : mr.chair , i can assure you that we are working with all the independent operators . this program is not administered by their officials , but by partners . i can assure you that , under the circumstances , they are doing their best to make the advance payments mr. larry maguire : farmers understand that some of the delays were caused by staff having to work remotely . however , did the minister approve a policy change on april 1 that made the eligibility for these loans more difficult during the middle of a pandemic , yes or no ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , a number of changes and improvements have been made to the program . to make things easier for our administrators , we have postponed some of the changes that could have been problematic . mr. larry maguire : yes , so some of the changes made it more problematic for the producers . the minister must take responsibility for these delays . farmers deserve an answer on why she changed the program . who advised her that it would be a good idea to make it more difficult for the farmers to access the advance payment program in the middle of a pandemic ? or did she just go ahead and do this on her own ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , we are constantly working with the administrators of the program . we are fully prepared to respond to their requests so that the advance payments program can best serve our producers across the country . mr. larry maguire : livestock producers are telling me that the premiums for the western livestock insurance program are too high . i told the minister of agriculture over two weeks ago that this was a problem , and yet she went out and said that farmers needed to make better use of existing support . when will the minister of agriculture listen to what the farmers are saying so they can actually use the existing programs ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , i would like to remind everyone that we have put in place certain measures to improve access to agristability . we have also significantly improved the agrirecovery program . over the past few years , this program amounted to about $ 15million . it is now $ 100million for pork and beef producers alone , not counting the $ 77.5million for food processors . mr. larry maguire : livestock producers in my riding and several across canada are still waiting for the minister of agriculture 's promise for an agrirecovery program . when will the minister of agriculture stop rubbing salt in the farmers ' wounds and provide the rest of the story she has been saying is on its way for over a month now in her agrirecovery promise ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , we have committed $ 50million to beef producers and $ 50million to pork producers through the agrirecovery program . here is how the program works : the federal government contributes up to60 % and then the provinces implement it how they see fit . mr. larry maguire : the funding announced by the minister of agriculture for the livestock industry was insufficient , and what was promised has not been delivered . this has caused hogs to be euthanized and over 100,000 feeder cattle to become overweight . the industry is in a crisis . how many livestock producers need to go bankrupt before they get the help they deserve ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , once again , we have significantly increased the amounts available through agrirecovery . it is $ 50million for beef producers and $ 50million for pork producers . these programs are administered by the provinces . there is also $ 77.5million for processors . </s>
<s> what was the discussion about amendments of policies on protecting workers ' and pensioners ' rights ? </s> the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go to mr. duvall from hamilton mountain . mr. scott duvall ( hamilton mountain , ndp ) : thank you , mr . chair . i will be splitting my time with the member for elmwoodtranscona . mr . chair , workers ' unions , business leaders and analysts across the country are raising a huge alarm over potential bankruptcies due to covid-19 . thousands of canadian workers are exposed and vulnerable . for years the government has promised to change the laws to protect workers from corporate bankruptcy , but has failed to deliver . will this government fix the law before more canadian workers lose their hard-earned pensions ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . filomena tassi ( minister of labour ) : thank you , mr . chair . i 'd like to thank the member for hamilton mountain for that question and for his advocacy on this file . i remind the member that since 2015 one of our first initiatives was the repealing of bills c-525 and c-377 , which were anti-union legislation . since then , we 've implemented a number of measures to protect workers . we 've increased the wage earner protection program by extending it from four weeks to seven weeks . the member is well aware that in 2019 the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go back to mr. duvall . mr. scott duvall : mr . chair , the changes the government made last year to bankruptcy insolvency laws were largely cosmetic and wo n't protect workers ' and pensioners ' livelihoods once bankruptcy hits . the government can protect severance , termination pay , pensions and benefits from corporate theft , but will they do it , yes or no ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . filomena tassi : mr . chair , we made a number of significant changes in budget 2019 , including that the process for the ccaa be more open and transparent . we mandated that those who are coming to the process have to be honest and truthful . one thing we heard in the consultations was the ability for courts to set aside executive bonuses , and we implemented all those changes because we want to continue to protect pensioners . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : you have time for a short question , mr. duvall . mr. scott duvall : thanks , mr . chair . the minister is n't answering the question . canadian workers are worried . this is about their livelihoods . will the government fix the lawsyes or noto protect workers ' and pensioners ' rights ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . </s>
<s> what was the debate about government providing direct financial assistance to people living with disabilities ? </s> the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to mr. blaikie , elmwoodtranscona . mr. daniel blaikie ( elmwoodtranscona , ndp ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . twice , following negotiations with the ndp , the government has committed to provide direct financial assistance to people living with disabilities . i 'm wondering when those people can expect the government to announce the details of that assistance . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we are committed to advancing on the issues that have been identified by canadians with disabilities . we are continuing that engagement , and we will have more to say on that very soon . mr. daniel blaikie : i think that answer is entirely inadequate . i have a lot of sympathy for people across the country who are living with disabilities and are getting impatient with the fact that alongside its initial commitment to seniors , for instance , the government made a commitment to helping people living with disabilities with the same kind of direct financial assistance , and it has n't come . why has it taken so long for the government to get around to helping people who are in a crisis right now ? i want to know the reason why this has n't been announced yet . hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we have established the covid-19 disability advisory group , comprising experts in disability inclusion . we 're moving forward with the canada emergency student benefit , which will provide $ 2,000 per month for eligible students with permanent disabilities . we are doubling the canada student grants for students with disabilities in the coming academic year . we have done a lot , but we will continue to do more , and we will have more to share on our continuing efforts to support persons with disabilities . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : go ahead , mr. blaikie . you have time for one short question . mr. daniel blaikie : their commitment was not around an advisory commitment . their commitment was for direct financial assistance to people living with disabilities who are facing additional costs because of the pandemic . they have committed twice and they have done nothing . when are they going to get around to it ? why should people living with disabilities have to wait any longer than they already have ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . </s>
<s> how was the tourism industry in canada being affected , and what was the government ` s implementations to ease the loss ? </s> mr. chris d'entremont : yesterday , the minister responsible for tourism , acoa and official languages was happy to close our national tourism week by announcing investments of $ 70 million to offset financial losses in the tourism industry across canada . where 's the big clap ? some hon . members : hear , hear ! mr. chris d'entremont : there you go , give her a clap . more than $ 70 million will be invested to support this sector and promote canadian destinations . southern ontario received $ 30 million , northern ontario received $ 7 million and western canada received $ 3.5 million . there 's nothing for atlantic canada yet . knowing that we just had an announcement from the minister of transport that there will be no cruise ships in atlantic canada or anywhere in canada this year , resulting in hundreds of millions of dollars in losses , where is the program for atlantic canada ? hon . mlanie joly ( minister of economic development and official languages ) : mr . chair , i commend my colleague for his important question . i know he 's a very strong advocate for the tourism sector in atlantic canada , so i want to reassure him . obviously , we want to support the tourism sector in atlantic canada . acoa has a clear direction to do just that . if he has any good ideas , please let him come forward and let 's have a conversation . meanwhile , atlantic canada will also be supported through destination canada . rather than doing marketing internationally , we will be supporting destination marketing organizations across the country , including in atlantic canada , to make sure that we launch this new movement to visit local . mr. chris d'entremont : that would be all great if we were n't in the middle of a pandemic and you ca n't even cross the nova scotia-new brunswick border without having to self-isolate for two weeks . it 's going to make travelling , through the maritimes at least , very difficult . in saint john , new brunswick , 79 cruise ships and more than 270,000 passengers will not be giving back to that local community . at home in nova scotia , it 's about 118 or 130 vessels . in terms of a minimum financial loss , $ 165 million will not be generated . there will be job losses and permanent closures of restaurants and boardwalk shops . prince edward island , which was expected to have a record attendance year , will lose visits of 97 ships and 154,000 passengers , and $ 60 million to the province 's economy will be lost . mr . chair , my question to the minister is this : who is acoa going to be working with , and what kinds of programs are going to be available to help them through this very difficult year ? hon . mlanie joly : i agree with my colleague . the sector is really impacted by the pandemic and the economic crisis . it is a bit like the canary in the coal mine ; it was the first impacted , and definitely it is still impacted . that 's why we are in close contact with tourism leaders and operators across the country . again , recently i had good conversations with the chambers of commerce all across atlantic canada , including hospitality newfoundland and labrador for the tourism sector . there is money for the tourism sector and tourism operators . they can have access to the wage subsidy . they wanted to have access to it until later in the summer , and it has been extended to the end of august . they have access to the rent relief program , the ceba and acoa funding . as mentioned many times in this chamber , mr . chair , if my colleague has clear examples to provide me , let 's work together . let 's make sure the money flows to these people , because they need it . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : you have only about a minute left , mr. d'entremont . mr. chris d'entremont : mr.chair , like the minister , last week , i spoke with simon-pierre poulin , the director of le franco newspaper in alberta , about the sauvons saint-jean movement . he asked me why we could not continue to work on official languages and on modernizing the act even though parliament is sitting in a different configuration . unfortunately , i had to explain to him that many restrictions were associated with the current format of this fake parliament . the pandemic is also threatening the protection of french in minority communities . the liberal government made a commitment to modernize the official languages act in the first six months of its mandate . how will it proceed ? hon . mlanie joly : mr.chair , it goes without saying that our two official languages are important and that , when it comes to language rights , we must always be on guard and protect what we have achieved . as for campus saint-jean , i am very aware of the issue . i had the opportunity to speak with my two counterparts in alberta late friday afternoon to tell them about our concerns and the need to protect the institution from drastic cuts . that was the first point . the second point is the modernization of the official languages act . i have the same concerns as my colleague . clearly , we must continue the conversations and find the right solutions . finally , we must be there to protect our language rights . if the member has good ideas , he can come to me to discuss them . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for chicoutimile fjord has the floor . mr. richard martel ( chicoutimile fjord , cpc ) : mr.chair , some people for whom the 15weeks of sickness benefits were not enough before the covid-19crisis now have to exhaust their regular employment insurance benefits before they are entitled to the cerb . today , i would like to know whether they will be able to exhaust their weeks of eligibility for the cerb after october3 . hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we ensured that those who switched over to the canada emergency response benefit would be covered by it , whether they were ei eligible or not . we are committed to supporting all of the workers who have been impacted by the covid-19 pandemic . mr. richard martel : according to a survey conducted by the universit du qubec trois-rivires ' research institute on small and medium size businesses , the saguenaylac-saint-jean region would be the most affected by the economic effects of covid-19 . this is not surprising . in fact , in our region , the tourism industry generates more than $ 300million in economic activity , including $ 58million for the cruise industry alone . the $ 70million that you announced yesterday is a very modest start . what does the government intend to do for the tourism industry in the regions ? hon . mlanie joly : mr.chair , it goes without saying that the tourism industry is indeed very much affected . that is why we are responding to their concerns and worries . we have therefore extended the emergency wage subsidy until the end of august . we are also providing the canada emergency commercial rent assistance , as well as the $ 40,000loans from the canada emergency business account . we have also just announced $ 70million in support for canada 's tourism sector . i am having good talks with various stakeholders in quebec , including martin soucy from the alliance de l'industrie touristique du qubec . in addition , we are going to do our part to support the tourism sector through economic development canada . mr. richard martel : mr.chair , the tourism industry in the saguenaylac-saint-jean region is the sum of all its stakeholders . many of these businesses are too small to receive the assistance announced by the federal government . overly restrictive standards will prevent some tourist accommodation from welcoming guests this year , even though they will have to pay their bills every month . what does the government plan to do to help the regions most affected economically ? hon . mlanie joly : i thank my colleague for his important question . what he is describing is the reason we are currently working on a game plan . we really want to be able to reach these small businesses , of which there are many in saguenaylac-saint-jean , in quebec and across the country . that is why the prime minister and the minister of finance have committed an additional $ 1billion to help those businesses that fall through the cracks . we need to respond now , and i will have more to say about it in the next few days . mr. richard martel : mr.chair , i was very disappointed to see that we had lost asparagus crops due to a labour shortage . when i spoke with the blueberry growers in my area , they told me they were concerned that the same thing could happen to them . some employers to whom we granted summer positions are not finding students to fill them . when will there be incentives to encourage people to work rather than disincentives ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we believe that the flexibilities we have introduced to the canada summer jobs program will enable more employers to use it , including more businesses , as well as help young people to acquire the necessary skills and benefits from this really important program . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr.martel , you have about a minute left . mr. richard martel : mr.chair , on may19 , the government said that it was studying several solutions to help business owners and entrepreneurs who operate their business using a personal bank account . when will the canada emergency business account be available to them ? </s>
<s> how was the government going to deal with overwhelming federal debt ? </s> the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to mr. epp , the member for chatham-kentleamington . mr. dave epp : thank you , mr . chair . i wish to congratulate my colleague , cathy mcleod . on tuesday , may 26 , she gained a new resident when brinnley lisette huby was born to parents adam and carina huby . carina is my daughter , and that makes brinnley my first grandchild and presently my favourite newest canadian . all are healthy , and i thank god for brinnley 's healthy arrival . some honourable members : hear , hear ! mr. dave epp : minister jordan , the freshwater fish marketing corporation is allowed access to the seafood stabilization fund , while you deny its competitor , our ontario fisheries that fish on the great lakes , the similar right to apply . minister , why ? hon . bernadette jordan ( south shorest . margarets , lib . ) : mr . chair , i want to thank my colleague for the very good question . the ontario inland fishers and the people in ontario are eligible for other programs that are offered through the regional development agencies . we are going to make sure that no industry is left behind when it comes to our fisheries . we 're making sure that we 're addressing the concerns of inland fisheries as well as coastal fisheries . those programs will be available to anyone who needs to apply through the rdas . mr. dave epp : minister , will you then direct these regional agencies to provide equitable funding equivalent to the seafood stabilization fund ? hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , we 're making sure that they have the same access to programs through the regional development agencies as there is through the seafood stabilization fund . we 're making sure that everyone who is in need of support through the programs will be able to access it . mr. dave epp : according to stats canada , before my granddaughter turns one year old , her share of the federal debt will be over $ 39,000 . what is minister morneau 's fiscal plan for canada so that the interest on this debt does n't cripple canada with higher taxes ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we realize that it 's always important to be responsible from a fiscal standpoint . we believe that the responsible approach today is to make investments to support canadians and to support businesses . in that way we can have jobs and we can get through this pandemic and have a strong economy and be able to continue with our approach to managing our economy in a responsible the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go back to mr. epp . mr. dave epp : minister , when can parliament , or this semblance of it , see that plan for economic prosperity ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : i would like to remind honourable members to direct their questions through the chair . the honourable minister may reply . hon . bill morneau : thank you , mr . chair . we 've been quite clear that we need to be transparent on a daily basis by giving canadians an understanding of the investments that we 're making through this pandemic . once the situation is more stable economically , we will certainly be coming forward with a broader plan . mr. dave epp : mr . chair , the canadian chamber of commerce said three months before the pandemic that this current government 's level of spending and incurring of debt is untenable and that future generations , like my granddaughter , will have to pay for it . how much more debt is the minister planning to incur ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , coming into this pandemic in a strong fiscal position with the lowest amount of debt among the g7 countries is a function of our economy that 's afforded us the opportunity to invest on behalf of canadians . we will continue to take that approach . we believe that 's the responsible thing to do through the course of this challenge . mr. dave epp : what is the budget for stopping illegal american guns from getting through our borders ? hon . marc garneau ( minister of transport ) : mr . chair , i thank the member for the question . i can tell you that we have invested considerable amounts of money and have earmarked ongoing monies to ensure that we address the issue of illegal guns passing across the border . we realize the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go back to mr. epp . mr. dave epp : what 's the budget , then , to fight government-trained and licensed canadians in the court challenge that 's now been triggered ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will go to the honourable minister . we 're not getting any audio . mr. dave epp : i have a point of order , mr . chair . could i have some more time , please ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : yes . we 're just going to hold time here momentarily , mr. epp . hon . marc garneau : i apologize , mr . chair . could i ask for the question to be repeated , please ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr. epp , what is your question again ? mr. dave epp : what is the budget for fighting the government-trained and licensed people who are now triggering a lawsuit against your order in council ? hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , i do n't have the answer to that question , but obviously the government will defend its position . mr. dave epp : mr . chair , covid-19 has exacerbated the problem of this government 's policy of spending the cupboards bare in good times instead of planning for a rainy dayand folks , we 're in a storm . unlike this government , municipalities can not by law say put it on the tab for the next generation . the balanced budget requirements force them to choose between slashed services and drastic tax hikes . the federation of canadian municipalities says they need $ 10 billion in targeted emergency operating funding , so do municipalities slash services , do they raise taxes , or will we be there for the municipalities ? hon . chrystia freeland : our government absolutely understands the crucial role municipalities play as the engine of our economy at all times , and particularly today , as in many parts of the country we are looking to restart the economy . that is why the prime minister announced just this morning that we will be accelerating payments under the gas tax fund . municipalities will receive the full amount of their 2020-21 payment on june 10 . this will help them with some of their near-term liquidity issues . </s>
<s> what was the debate over the economic recovery plan ? </s> mr. gabriel ste-marie ( joliette , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . regardless of the covid-19 pandemic , the last time i checked , we still had a democratic system and the government had to remain accountable . the government needs to present a picture of the economic situation and a picture of its overall emergency measures . does the government intend to extend the measures over the summer ? if so , how will it do so ? the government must also present its working scenarios for the economic recovery . the government needs to be transparent . when will the government provide its economic update ? hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , i would like to thank the hon . member for his questions . i agree , it is very important to be transparent and to provide the necessary information to canadians . every day , we announce measures , of course , but also the cost of the measures and the amount of the investments . it is very important . the challenge at the moment is the economic situation , which is very fluid . when the situation is more stable , we will have the opportunity to give an economic update . mr. gabriel ste-marie : in my opinion , mr.chair , it will really be too late to do the economic update when things are more stable . we have been asking for an economic update for the past month . even the parliamentary budget officer has been urging the government to table an economic update in a timely manner . with only three weeks left in the house before the summer , the clock is ticking . the quebec government will table its economic update later this month . will the federal government follow suit ? hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , let me confirm that we will continue to be transparent about the investments ; it is very important . of course , each day we work to make sure we have a solid grasp of the economic situation . as i said , when the situation is a little more stable , we will have the opportunity to explain our situation with an economic update . mr. gabriel ste-marie : once again , mr.chair , when the situation is more stable , it will be too late to do an economic update ; instead we will have to table a budget with the recovery in mind . speaking of the recovery , the parliamentary budget officer is surprised that the government is calling on the private sector for ideas for its recovery plan . mr.giroux points out that this government has thousands of public servants with very good ideas , and he adds that the government can also ask for the opposition parties ' views . that would be a very good idea . why is the government contracting out the development of its recovery plan to the private sector ? hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , i would like to tell the hon . member that it is important to listen to what we are trying to do , and to listen to people 's ideas and opinions , not only in parliament , but also from our society . so we keep listening . of course , with our approach , we will address the economic recovery in a way that will ensure we can maintain our very strong position . mr. gabriel ste-marie : mr.chair , we are still surprised that the government has contracted out its recovery plan to the private sector . the sooner the government tables its recovery plan , the better . businesses and individuals would start gaining confidence in the economy again . it would help them to loosen the purse strings and be assured that there will be economic life after the pandemic . again , that is what the parliamentary budget officer says . can the government tell us when it will table its recovery plan ? hon . bill morneau : mr.chair , we feel it is very important to consider what we need to do in each phase of our recovery . at this time , it is necessary to consider the public health situation and the gradual reopening of our economy . that is why we feel our approach aims for a safe recovery . obviously , by gathering more information in phase3 , we will be able to consider more than one approach to recovery . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr.ste-marie , you have about 30seconds left . mr. gabriel ste-marie : thank you . i understand that the exact date for tabling the recovery plan may be difficult to determine at this time . can the minister tell us whether he currently intends to table the recovery plan in a month ending in ber ? if not , will it be before or after that ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . here we go . alright , the agenda for thi oh . alright . um the agenda for this meeting is um we 'll initially have the prototype presentation by our two designers . and then we will evaluate it , given the criteria that um that we gave gave it . and um talk about our finances , whether we were under or over our budget . i have a um a spreadsheet where we can calculate um our prices for every aspect of of what we 've made , given our options . and um evaluate the product , as a group . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and um so first we 'll have the prototype presentation . do you need the um powerpoint for this ? industrial designer : um yeah . i just got a few slides , so show them . project manager : alright . industrial designer : thank you . do you want to present it ? user interface : um industrial designer : yeah , here we are . user interface : this is what we came up with . it 's a pretty simple design . it 's um based on a mango ? yeah . and we marketing : industrial designer : mango shape . project manager : a mango . okay . user interface : yeah . and we have the company logo here and this will be the infrared here industrial designer : the l_e_d_ . user interface : and this 'll be the power point , the on off button kind project manager : oh . okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : i 'm sorry . project manager : oops . marketing : what was the where 's the l_e_d_ ? user interface : it 's in the middle of one of the little r_s . marketing : oh . okay . user interface : and then the other one is the power . and uh we just have a simple design . we wanted it all to be industrial designer : so it 's palm-held . user interface : accessible from your thumb industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah palm-held project manager : yeah . user interface : and all the buttons are accessible from your thumb . project manager : notice you have a number ten button . user interface : so you do n't have to oh that was a mistake , was n't it ? project manager : okay . industrial designer : you just need the nought . user interface : right no , that 's a zero . marketing : user interface : take that one off . sorry . i was in charge of the numbers . project manager : no problem . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : ah . user interface : and this is just if you 've got like eleven or twelve or thirt the plus . industrial designer : so one plus one would be eleven , user interface : you can go one , three or something . industrial designer : or project manager : oh . you press a plus button ? user interface : you press that first and then you go one three yeah . project manager : oh okay . i 've never heard of that kind before . user interface : well we just thought , we have all the numbers here , so we wanted something representative of numbers larger than ten and project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah because if you on your average um remote , if you press one twice you just go to um or uh say you wanted channel twelve , you press one , and then you go to channel one , and then two then you 'd just go to channel two , instead of twelve . project manager : yeah . marketing : oh , there 's no e industrial designer : so if you did like one plus two you could go to channel twelve , or two plus two is channel twenty two . user interface : so the plus and then marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : but would you have to go zero plus one if you wanted to go to channel one or two ? user interface : no no , th all that 's why we have all these numbers . these numbers um these numbers all work independently up to nine . project manager : yeah but i mean if you press , it 'll go to that channel right away . 'cause you got ta press the plus afterwards . user interface : yeah . oh no . uh , the plus is only for if you 're going past the number nine . project manager : yeah i know , but if if i wan na go to say number like sixty five , channel sixty five , if i press the six it 'll go to channel six , and then i 'll press the plus , and then it 'll go to six and then put the five and it 'll go to sixty five ? marketing : sixty . user interface : you p oh . no you press the plus first . i i well it does n't we have n't really s i would 've thought you pressed the plus first and then the six five , marketing : user interface : but she says plus press which industrial designer : well i do n't mind , we can further define that . user interface : what do you think is simpler ? project manager : i th um user interface : it 's a industrial designer : i would n't have thought it 'd be a problem that it went to channel six first , in like on the way to channel sixty five . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah it would n't be a problem . but i was just wondering industrial designer : but i suppose it 's not as snappy . user interface : yeah . project manager : like as long as we realise that 's what it 'll do . marketing : well the there is a there 's a delay on remotes i think . user interface : oops . yeah . marketing : where you can have it industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's like a five second input time . industrial designer : yeah . if you do n't put it marketing : so as long as you hit them dada industrial designer : yeah . yeah , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that yeah . marketing : it should be fine . project manager : yeah . marketing : as long as there 's not a big pause between the t hitting the two buttons . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . so industrial designer : um marketing : was there so on the top there is volume and industrial designer : and channel , user interface : a channel . industrial designer : which is so you could just go like that without thinking about it , like marketing : channel up volume up . okay cool . project manager : c_ and v_ . user interface : just so we can flick project manager : right , where um where 's the power button ? marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's in the middle of one of the little r_s . industrial designer : it 's the bigger r_ . marketing : it 's the r_ . project manager : oh okay . industrial designer : so it 's just like . user interface : yeah , project manager : yeah . user interface : so it 's all accessible . without m taking your hand off the remote . industrial designer : we deci project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah um we went for like a a circular design for the numbers marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : because we thought that 's kind of a more natural movement than just going like that with your thumb . project manager : oh okay . industrial designer : uh e ergonomics are all considered . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : ergonomic , definitely ergonomic . user interface : and it might actually help with the repetitive stress injury as well . marketing : industrial designer : it could cause another type of repetitive stress injury though . user interface : okay . industrial designer : but yeah , no i mean it 's a different movement marketing : industrial designer : so yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um and the feel of it , i mean , we 've made this out of play doh , which is representing the , you know , the rubber , and the spongy rubberness . project manager : user interface : project manager : the spon yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um 'cause it was said before in the material specification that this the this anti-r_s_i_ um material is often used in stress balls so this has got a you know a bit of give to it , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and it just feels feels different . user interface : yeah . project manager : bit of a stress ball feel . industrial designer : would you like to feel it yourselves ? user interface : yeah . project manager : yes . i would . industrial designer : how it fits in the palm of your hand ? marketing : project manager : my goodness . industrial designer : thanks . marketing : project manager : there you go . industrial designer : and you ? project manager : genevieve ? yeah . marketing : . oh it 's nice . oh i think i killed the five . industrial designer : marketing : i did . project manager : and something hmm . marketing : i killed the four . oh god . industrial designer : o okay , as for the colours , we were presented with um a limited range of colours for this prototype . user interface : of play doh yeah . marketing : oh it smells good . industrial designer : but we 're thinking that , seeing as we 're having it in interchangeable casing anyway , that this is not necessarily a representation of the true colours that we would necessarily use . or the combination . um and we 're thinking to carry-on with the fruit and vegetable theme , the colour um combination just could just be named after different fruit , like banana could be black and yellow , watermelon red and green , project manager : oh right . industrial designer : or vanilla might be the most popular if it just uh blends in user interface : 'cause it 'd be quite subtle and industrial designer : more settled cream instead of the others are all a bit garish . project manager : yeah . it looks more think like vanilla and banana would . industrial designer : banana 's more representative of our colour scheme , like the company the yellow and black . project manager : okay yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so that for corporate identity that would probably be the most strength . user interface : marketing : project manager : industrial designer : i mean watermelon , you know , m probably appealing to the project manager : kinda christmas , you know . industrial designer : yeah , seasonal . user interface : yeah , yeah , yeah . industrial designer : apple green , brown , more kinda trendy , you know , khaki project manager : yeah . user interface : the pomegranate 's kinda girly and funky kind of , project manager : cool . user interface : and then the vanilla 's more for the more sophisticated customer who just wants something that fits in with all decor . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . okay . um yeah we thought of the components it was definitely um a focus of ergonomics and just a single ha handheld device , i mean you do n't need to use both hands , one hand to hold this and type in with the other , you can just use your thumb . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um , as we said the rubber 's probably used for comfort and anti-r_s_i_ and that 's about it . project manager : alright , thank you very much . user interface : project manager : good work everyone . marketing : bravo industrial designer : project manager : alright . and so now that we 've we have a prototype , uh we need to go over the finances and seeing if this prototype matches uh what our budget can handle . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so , i have something i 'm going to oh wait a minute . marketing : you want the project manager : do you need to do a presentation first ? marketing : i do n't know what order it goes in . project manager : yeah . i 'm gon na check that out for a second . marketing : i have one . industrial designer : mm go project manager : what time is it anyw oh yeah sorry you 're right . evaluation criteria is next in line . marketing : evaluation cri okay . that 's me . project manager : yeah . marketing : hello . oh there we go . okay . come on my computer . come on . sorry my computer 's giving me technical difficulties . project manager : just press um function eight again . marketing : should i press it again ? last time i did that it sh okay . you 're right . project manager : and then again i think . one more time . marketing : oh . still not there . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : okay now i think for this one i could would you guys prefer use the whiteboard or mayb maybe i 'll just do it on right on the screen where you can see it . um , we 're gon na be doing an evaluation report together based on the protoptype that we 've just seen . um and looking looking back at my notes from our both our conceptual and our functional meetings , um i made a list of what our original requirements and goals were , um , back to our kick-off meeting this morning . um , and we 'll evaluate as to whether we 've s done what we set out to do . um and we 're gon na do it on a one to seven scale where one is true and seven is false . so basically the lower p the lower the points the better . okay so question number one . does the remote whoops . sorry . oh i 'm not gon na be able um , i 'll do it on the whiteboard . i ca n't change it so i 'm g i 'm gon na ask you to push it down once . project manager : okay . marketing : i 'll write down our scores up on the okay so number one . do we have a fancy look-and-feel ? industrial designer : feel i think . we 've been quite successful with the rubber coating project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and project manager : the look is a little bit more playful . user interface : well industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah i guess that depends on your definition of fancy , but it 's definitely different . project manager : oh definitely different yeah . marketing : it 's not your traditional yeah . industrial designer : i think the colour has a lot to do with it . i mean th the colours we were given for making the prototype are n't the colours that i think we would 've necessarily chosen . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it 's not the kind of ooh uh at all sleek project manager : oh you were only given red and black ? industrial designer : red , black and yellow , and orange . project manager : oh okay . user interface : yeah so industrial designer : um user interface : not very sleek and we do n't wan na go for black because most remote controls are black or grey . marketing : yeah . user interface : so we want it to be stand out that way , anyway . project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : but if you can imagine that in like a s just a maybe uh a kind of pale metallic-y finish or something user interface : yeah . a metallic-y finish we were thinking . industrial designer : well i know know it 's for rubber . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i mean diff if you can visualise this in nice colours i think it would look quite fancy . user interface : polished . okay yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . i kinda i like the potato look . project manager : it 's mango . industrial designer : oh well , potato , mango , fruit and veg . user interface : we we were we were thinking about marketing : it 's very different . it 's what ? project manager : it 's mango . marketing : oh sorry the mango the mango look . industrial designer : potato 's fine . potato 's fine . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah it is , fruit or vegetable depends on your mood . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . totally . it 's really adaptable . marketing : so i myself would say a one or a two . project manager : yeah . i would say two . personally . user interface : i w i 'd say two i think . marketing : it 's a two ? industrial designer : for the marketing : okay , user interface : fanciness . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : fancy marketing : one being true . so industrial designer : i uh two , three . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay , actu that 's pro that 's gon na get confusing , like that . okay so question number two was is it techn technologically innovative ? so i know we have the kinetic energy which is very innovative . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah and the use of the rubber . marketing : use of the rubber , the use of the l_e_d_ . industrial designer : for the anti-r_s_i_ . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the l_e_d_ use is n't particularly innovative marketing : is n't industrial designer : and we do n't have any scroll buttons , it 's all pushbuttons , there 's no lcd control , so if we 're thinking about the rest of the market , it 's sort of probably halfway . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : in some aspects it is , like we said . project manager : yeah . i 'd say maybe three . user interface : i 'll go for three as well . marketing : yeah . and i think i mean it it 's tough to say because we were we did n't want it to be any more innovative than this , because then that would 've defeated the purpose . project manager : yeah we want it simple . industrial designer : yeah . though it was our specification . user interface : no . would n't be simple , yeah . marketing : so i mean i we 'll put three , but i think we actually reached our goal . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : we did n't want it any more than that . okay question number three . uh , will it be easy to use ? project manager : i think so . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah very . marketing : yeah . user interface : i think one for that . marketing : yeah . s yeah project manager : yeah . one . marketing : i think it 's industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : you ca n't really get confused with that . i mean , there 'll be s we have to work out the uh number the plus system . project manager : the plus number thing . user interface : yeah that 's the only thing yeah . marketing : but once that 's figured out , it should be fine . industrial designer : yeah and perhaps the turning on but user interface : marketing : number four . is this a good-looking remote ? remember that seventy five percent of users find most remote controls ugly . user interface : it 's definitely industrial designer : again i think the colour comes into this . project manager : yeah colour will definitely be a factor . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think that the logo could be smaller . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and maybe not such a prominent way . user interface : yeah . project manager : maybe like at the bottom , kind of . user interface : but the industrial designer : not in user interface : remember the management said that it it had to be prominent . project manager : oh it just had to be on there i guess . marketing : whoops . user interface : yeah . marketing : should just not touch it . project manager : industrial designer : do n't worry . marketing : this time it 's the three i killed . i was just wondering if it should be like flatter . or industrial designer : i suppose i 've got quite big hands . project manager : i like the appeal of it being like a big glob in your hand . marketing : well user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : but you know what i 've just thought of there now . what where 's it gon na sit in your living room ? is it not gon na fall off the arm of the sofa ? project manager : maybe if the bottom was just sort of flat , and then the rest is like marketing : yeah the bottom could be like ch chopped a bit . user interface : yeah . project manager : round . user interface : but then it would n't sit as comfortably in your hand . marketing : oh . that 's true . project manager : it would still be comfortable i think . we c we could handle it i think . industrial designer : thing is like that , it 's not going anywhere particularly . user interface : yeah . marketing : maybe , it could it could be on the bottom , so you would n't loo like if it 's flat here , so it sits up . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like that . user interface : oh that would be nice . project manager : ah it 'd fall over all the time though . it 'd be annoying . industrial designer : uh yeah , it 's less um , what 's th ha . user interface : yeah . marketing : i g if it 's weighted maybe . project manager : user interface : project manager : 'kay we 're done designing . industrial designer : h it 's got higher centre of gravity like that . marketing : details , details . project manager : come on . marketing : okay . so , is this a good-looking remote ? would we wan na show it off to our friends ? user interface : three . you would though , 'cause it 's bit it 's more interesting than other remotes . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think , it was another colour and it was like i think it 'd look okay . i think maybe a two . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : i would definitely go for that rather than like your average plain old remote like that , marketing : i mean i gue yeah , it 's personal taste , but user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but definitely in another colour , i 'm not happy with those colours . marketing : okay , so should we say two for that ? project manager : sure . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . uh , question number five . what 's um will people be willing to spend twenty five euros on this product ? remember that eighty percent of users were willing to spend more money when a remote control looked fancy . user interface : i think we have to market it in the right way , that um to say that it is simplistic . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so people do n't just see it and think , uh , this is so simplistic , i do n't want to spend twenty five euros . project manager : yeah . user interface : we have to market it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah it the marketing will have a lot to do with it . industrial designer : and the kinetic energy , shaker-style-y , whoo , user interface : and the kinetic energy part . yeah . project manager : yeah . durable . industrial designer : ooh no . marketing : shake it and the buttons fall off . industrial designer : but you know , those 'll be firmly on . user interface : do n't shake oh no the plus . you 're marketing : no , i guess , i do n't know much about the remote control industry , how much your average sells for , user interface : use the zero . industrial designer : user interface : make a new one . project manager : but you 're our marketing expert . marketing : but i know i am , are n't i ? user interface : i think they 're about ten po ten pound , are n't they ? about ten pounds . fifteen ? marketing : but you do n't have to buy batteries . so in the long term this can actually save you money . industrial designer : mm , yeah , that 's true . user interface : yeah . project manager : oh . exactly . exactly . marketing : so we 'll market it that way too . industrial designer : yeah . good point . marketing : so yeah i think with a good marketing scheme um and the personalisation options , it 'll user interface : project manager : yeah . i would give it a two still though . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . okay number six . can someone read it out ? industrial designer : does this prototype match the operating behaviour of the average user . marketing : or user interface : yeah . marketing : um yeah . so that was mainly that the statistics industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i think it does very well . project manager : oh yeah . industrial designer : because marketing : we said industrial designer : yeah , because the most accessible buttons are the volume and the and the channel-changing . user interface : the zap project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and it 's just you wo n't have to think about it . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you do n't have to look down to find them . marketing : industrial designer : they 're clearly there , easy to use . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : simple . user interface : uh marketing : yeah i guess the i think the key word there is average , 'cause there were some people that used the uh video input and sound and stuff . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but they 're not you and i really . project manager : yeah . marketing : so . okay so one ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . number seven . c heather could you push it down ? will this remote control be easy to find when lost ? remember that fifty percent of users lose their remote regularly . project manager : we have the alarm system . marketing : now is there the is the alarm system still was it implemented ? user interface : yeah the bu when you press the alarm system , the lights behind the and it 'll vibra industrial designer : it yeah marketing : industrial designer : l lights on and , or flash as well . but i mean it 's not obviously obvious from the outside that that 's gon na happen 'cause you ca n't s particularly see an alarm . user interface : it 'll be again in the marketing . project manager : i thought the light from the inside was gon na light up . user interface : yeah . the light it will . project manager : or or was it gon na make a noise ? industrial designer : yeah . but when the alarm 's not user interface : but industrial designer : yeah . if you user interface : but both marketing : project manager : you press the button it makes a noise right ? marketing : it turns into a duck and starts quacking . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you could s project manager : yeah . awesome . awesome . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : oh , that would be brilliant . marketing : here i am . user interface : i 'd be tempted to industrial designer : well the thing is , if it was had an alarm system , marketing : um industrial designer : i mean , when it when it lights up as we i mean it could light up when the alarm went . but if it was hidden underneath the cushion or something , there would n't be any point . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so you ca n't see the alarm , but it would light up . user interface : it would have to be in the market project manager : i though w it was gon na make a noise . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah . alarm , user interface : yeah but you still could n't see it . industrial designer : but you ca n't see an alarm inside uh the alarm system itself . user interface : it would just be a little speaker on the back or something . project manager : okay . marketing : we oh you 're just explaining why it 's not on the prototype . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . it w yeah . marketing : but yeah , it 'll be there . project manager : oh okay . marketing : so we can we could say that project manager : whoo . okay . industrial designer : sorry . user interface : marketing : we can give it a one , because compared to every other remote ever m ever made , this one will be easier to find . project manager : yeah , totally . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . um industrial designer : sorry heather . user interface : project manager : no problem , mm . industrial designer : that was n't very clear . marketing : question number eight . will it be easy to learn how to use this remote when brand new ? remember that thirty four percent of users usually found it difficult . project manager : totally . marketing : so it has to be yeah , it 's eas they 'll pick it up and they 'll know what to do . user interface : so the plu the plus w once that 's written down on the page that 'll be really simple , marketing : the plus thing needs to be worked on . project manager : yeah . user interface : wo n't it ? industrial designer : i think marketing : yeah . industrial designer : just because it 's we 've decided to reduce it down to the basic buttons , i think that in itself makes it so much easier to use . marketing : well user interface : yeah . marketing : do does it make more sense for the middle one to be an just an enter button ? so then you would have to push two buttons every time at least . project manager : yeah , so it 's just like channel six , six , enter . user interface : that kind of annoys me though , when it 's zero six when you have to press project manager : yeah but you do n't have to press zeros . user interface : i do n't know why . marketing : you could just press six enter , user interface : oh okay . right . project manager : and then like twelve , enter . industrial designer : and or sixty six enter , y marketing : or one two enter . user interface : alright , aye . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah i think that 's probably more straightforward . yeah . good project manager : user interface : yeah . marketing : um , okay so we can user interface : i 'd say w yeah one . marketing : we 'll say yes it 's uh one ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : ooh . mm . marketing : question number nine . uh , will it minimise the effects of r_s_i_ , which was repeated strain injury ? industrial designer : injury . user interface : yeah . marketing : um , which affected over a quarter of users . user interface : hmm . project manager : i think so . it 's like right in the user interface : but if you 're zapping project manager : your thumb might get a little bit uh industrial designer : yeah , that 's what i was thinking . user interface : yeah . i do n't think it will f industrial designer : we may have to do some more research into other strain injuries that we do n't know about . user interface : yeah , project manager : yeah . user interface : the biology . project manager : but it is soft . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's soft , project manager : and that 's kind of what the um marketing : and project manager : the powerpoint slide thing said would be good for r_s_i_ , marketing : and people could industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so maybe it is but marketing : i do n't know what other options there are . industrial designer : i think we 're getting project manager : yeah . industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : could i mean , you could hold it in your left hand and d use your index finger . but there 's not really any other options unless it 's like a keyboard . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so , i think we did as as much as you can with a remote control . project manager : yeah . marketing : so , one or two do you think ? industrial designer : i think user interface : i i 'd say t industrial designer : yeah , i think too . user interface : two . yeah project manager : yeah . marketing : two okay . okay number ten . did we somehow incorporate the company colour and logo ? project manager : yes we did . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : now is the colour gon na be there even if it 's like vanilla ? user interface : n we we ca n't really do that marketing : is the yellow user interface : because for example on the banana theme we ca n't have it as being yellow . industrial designer : user interface : it wo n't stand out . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so n it 's not always gon na be the same colour . marketing : it sounds like the colour 's something that we project manager : well , yeah the colours are yellow and grey . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : gray , yeah . project manager : so it could be grey on the banana one . user interface : yeah , could be grey . project manager : yeah . marketing : but i mean the yell yeah d yellow 's ugly though , user interface : yeah that 's right , marketing : depending on the user interface : we did n't even rea marketing : so i think we 'll have to talk to our executive managers , and see if we can get away with just the r_r_ . industrial designer : mm . yeah . i think this is the user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the factor that we 've been least successful in confronting . marketing : okay . user interface : perhaps a metallic project manager : mm , yeah . user interface : or or like that 's grey , and it would n't be that expensive to have a little bit of metal . no ? marketing : yeah . user interface : that is n't rubber . marketing : and the buttons in the middle . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay so , do you think that 's more of a three then ? three , four ? industrial designer : four i think . well i do n't marketing : four ? industrial designer : what do what marketing : well we have good reasons for it , so we but we can still put a a four ? industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : okay , and final question . um , did we stay true to our motto and put the fashion into electronics ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : current trends of fruits and veggies , desire for sponginess . project manager : i would say so . marketing : user interface : following that briefing we did . project manager : but maybe more like two 'cause there 's no like pictures of fruit , it 's just sort of naming it by a fruit . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : with the with the colours . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : like um the colour scheme names and stuff . user interface : yeah . marketing : no , uh , are the plates interchangeable ? industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : i think i missed a few project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : they are ? so you can have banana and kiwi and project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . okay , so that 's something that 's kind of in the making too , like maybe it 'll become more project manager : that 's fashionable in itself to have interchangeable plates . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it is . user interface : i think w yeah , i think one . well that was our brief and we followed the brief . industrial designer : the thing is , i think if somebody saw that and you said what was that inspired from , i do n't know if you 'd instantly say mango . user interface : well we have n't got a big banana but oh yeah . project manager : be like user interface : no . no . project manager : yeah . marketing : project manager : maybe if it was scented . user interface : oh that would be class . marketing : industrial designer : oh yeah . there we go . that would be great . project manager : yeah we have money for that . um user interface : project manager : alright so based on this evaluation , do we average them out sorta thing ? industrial designer : um marketing : yes we do . so i wh what was i gon na put for that ? a two for fashion ? project manager : i would say two . user interface : yeah . two . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay , so our average there , five , six , eight , ten , eleven , twelve , thirteen , fifteen , nineteen , twenty one , divided by eleven project manager : one point nine or something ? user interface : it 's industrial designer : it 's marketing : is user interface : yeah . project manager : i do n't know these things . um , between one and two . industrial designer : between one and two . marketing : between okay . industrial designer : so that 's pretty fantastic . user interface : close to two . marketing : um . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , that 's very good 'cause the highest we coulda got is one . project manager : alright . user interface : i got marketing : does that seem right then ? user interface : yeah , 'cause we 've a four to bring down . marketing : okay . user interface : uh , aye . industrial designer : it seems like it should be more around two . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . uh , should 've added five . industrial designer : do we have an online calculator ? project manager : i 'm attempting to do that right now . user interface : this is . industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah it is one point nine . ooh . industrial designer : oh wow . well done . project manager : go heather pauls . industrial designer : well that 's excellent . user interface : marketing : project manager : yeah . alright , now with that over and done with , our next step is to see if we are under budget . and um my computer 's frozen . and now it 's not . okay . so um in our shared folder , if everyone could go there right now , um i 'm going to um steal a cable . marketing : sorry . are you gon na do that ? okay . project manager : um it 's it 's um user interface : is that the project document ? project manager : it 's an excel file . oh . industrial designer : production costs . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'kay there we go . um , production costs . and um i have to access that as well . one moment . industrial designer : it says it project manager : 'kay so far i 've added what i think or what is going on ? great . it 's blinking at me . it 's locked for editing . read only . i 'm gon na open up a second one then 'cause it 's locked for editing . i have the original in my um my email account . marketing : oh is it locked 'cause i 'm in it ? project manager : i dunno . industrial designer : i think it just means that we ca n't add any more to it now . marketing : or okay . industrial designer : have you have you completed it ? project manager : no . no , i was hoping that you guys could . industrial designer : oh right . okay . okay . project manager : um , there we go . industrial designer : project manager : okay here we go . so we need to tally up how much our w our product will be costing . so um if you can look up at the screen , um the large screen , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : oh i guess looking at your own too and telling me which one you think . okay we 're using kinetic which is quite a large expense at three euros . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um we 're using a regular chip . user interface : oh right . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , it 's cur it 's double curved , so its curved all around . industrial designer : double double-curved yeah . project manager : that 's another three . we 're already at five . um , we 're using plastic and rubber , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so good thing plastic is free , we 're at eight . um s user interface : what about a special colour ? project manager : yeah . user interface : are we using that ? project manager : i guess we should do it just for one kind . so it 's like special colour well we 'll have two colours industrial designer : yeah . project manager : right ? well one colour for the case , one colour for the buttons . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so we can industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : um , we have push button interface , so that 's inexpensive . and um we have a special colour for the button , and we also have a special form . and a special material . user interface : and a special material . yeah . project manager : which puts us just barely under budget . hurray . industrial designer : congratulations guys . project manager : yeah . good work guys . user interface : marketing : mm . 's good . project manager : so um our operating cost is twelve twenty euros . user interface : that 's good . project manager : awesome . and back to our powerpoint . so we 've 'kay . yes we are . so we need to do a product evaluation , again , user interface : project manager : which is probably um i dunno . a different extension of a industrial designer : of the actual project rather than the product ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : a project ? is is project manager : yeah 'cause we 're talking about leadership , teamwork . industrial designer : yeah . so wh how we actually went round uh about doing it . project manager : yeah . alright so um do you guys feel like there was room for creativity ? industrial designer : i think we were pushed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : pushed for creativity ? user interface : industrial designer : i mean we were n't really given a lot of time , or materials , yeah , to go about our design task . user interface : the ma or materials . industrial designer : so i think we could 've done with a bit more time . user interface : yeah . project manager : ye okay . industrial designer : project manager : so it 'd be like need more time and materials . but you were allowed m creativity ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i think so as like but you were supposed to have creativ industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah and the conceptual and functional . like we were very creative in in coming up with an idea i guess , but m industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : well we were just limited by resources really and like if we had decided to use the lcd screen , and like solar power backup and everything , then we would n't have been able to afford that . marketing : when we can down to it . user interface : yeah . project manager : right . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so that did limit creativity . user interface : creativity . industrial designer : just resources . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but yeah . the fruit and veg idea . project manager : great . user interface : marketing : project manager : leadership ? is this me being like , guys do you like me ? um . user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : good leadership , i think we stayed on task . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah we did . we 've , uh seeing as we 've come out with what we intended . a pro um a product within the budget . i think that 's a sign of good leadership marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and also our personal coach helped us along the way , user interface : marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so you know i think it 's been fine . marketing : and the timing was good . we never were pushed for time , or sat around doing nothing , so industrial designer : yeah . good timing . user interface : yeah . project manager : oop okay . user interface : marketing : project manager : teamwork ? industrial designer : and project manager of course . project manager : i think we worked great as a team . yeah ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : was good teamwork . i think we are well-suited to our roles . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : alright how were our means ? industrial designer : um project manager : we needed more play doh colours . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah and more play doh , marketing : industrial designer : 'cause that was all the red we had . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so even if we wanted to make a bigger prototype , we would n't have been able to . user interface : yeah , it c it might 've been bigger . project manager : marketing : oh really ? project manager : but ever everything else was satisfactory ? marketing : okay . project manager : is that good user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . the computer programmes are good . industrial designer : yeah . it could be really straightforward for the computer . marketing : the industrial designer : i think the only thing was having to remember to you know to tick the okays marketing : yeah . i do n't think there was anything user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but i think i was the only one who struggled with that . project manager : user interface : marketing : user interface : i 'm actually not sure if i 've saved my presentations . project manager : yeah ? marketing : project manager : industrial designer : mm . uh me too . marketing : they 'll probably still be there . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : new ideas found . i do n't really know what that means . user interface : industrial designer : well i think we 've all learnt stuff from each other , marketing : um industrial designer : like the n um user interface : yeah . through discussion . industrial designer : yeah . just about each different . got new ideas from each other . marketing : i 'm not sure , new ideas found . yeah well i guess we really it we bounced off of each other , which was cool . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : like based on marketing stuff and then you 'd say something about interface and industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , worked well . user interface : and we were a able to modify each other 's ideas marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : to fit in with our areas of expertise . project manager : yeah . each other 's marketing : oh does it have smart materials by the way ? industrial designer : sorry ? marketing : does it have smart materials ? industrial designer : oh yeah . marketing : oh yeah . industrial designer : well mm , did it come into the into user interface : if if it if it industrial designer : i dunno if we counted that in the costs . user interface : if it can be afforded . project manager : okay ? well with that achieved , our last slide is our closing slide . user interface : project manager : yes our costs are within budget . it 's evaluated generally positively . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : and um do n't forget to complete final questionnaire and meeting summary . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : then we celebrate industrial designer : uh . fantastic . marketing : by watching tv ? project manager : in such a way that i have no idea . user interface : industrial designer : okay , brilliant . project manager : alright ? industrial designer : thank you very much . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , bye . user interface : </s>
<s> how did user interface introduce the prototype of the remote control ? </s> user interface : yeah . and we have the company logo here and this will be the infrared here industrial designer : the l_e_d_ . user interface : and this 'll be the power point , the on off button kind project manager : oh . okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : i 'm sorry . project manager : oops . marketing : what was the where 's the l_e_d_ ? user interface : it 's in the middle of one of the little r_s . marketing : oh . okay . user interface : and then the other one is the power . and uh we just have a simple design . we wanted it all to be industrial designer : so it 's palm-held . user interface : accessible from your thumb industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah palm-held project manager : yeah . user interface : and all the buttons are accessible from your thumb . project manager : notice you have a number ten button . user interface : so you do n't have to oh that was a mistake , was n't it ? project manager : okay . industrial designer : you just need the nought . user interface : right no , that 's a zero . marketing : user interface : take that one off . sorry . i was in charge of the numbers . project manager : no problem . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : ah . user interface : and this is just if you 've got like eleven or twelve or thirt the plus . industrial designer : so one plus one would be eleven , user interface : you can go one , three or something . industrial designer : or project manager : oh . you press a plus button ? user interface : you press that first and then you go one three yeah . project manager : oh okay . i 've never heard of that kind before . user interface : well we just thought , we have all the numbers here , so we wanted something representative of numbers larger than ten and project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah because if you on your average um remote , if you press one twice you just go to um or uh say you wanted channel twelve , you press one , and then you go to channel one , and then two then you 'd just go to channel two , instead of twelve . project manager : yeah . marketing : oh , there 's no e industrial designer : so if you did like one plus two you could go to channel twelve , or two plus two is channel twenty two . user interface : so the plus and then marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : but would you have to go zero plus one if you wanted to go to channel one or two ? user interface : no no , th all that 's why we have all these numbers . these numbers um these numbers all work independently up to nine . project manager : yeah but i mean if you press , it 'll go to that channel right away . 'cause you got ta press the plus afterwards . user interface : yeah . oh no . uh , the plus is only for if you 're going past the number nine . project manager : yeah i know , but if if i wan na go to say number like sixty five , channel sixty five , if i press the six it 'll go to channel six , and then i 'll press the plus , and then it 'll go to six and then put the five and it 'll go to sixty five ? marketing : sixty . user interface : you p oh . no you press the plus first . i i well it does n't we have n't really s i would 've thought you pressed the plus first and then the six five , marketing : user interface : but she says plus press which industrial designer : well i do n't mind , we can further define that . user interface : what do you think is simpler ? project manager : i th um user interface : it 's a industrial designer : i would n't have thought it 'd be a problem that it went to channel six first , in like on the way to channel sixty five . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah it would n't be a problem . but i was just wondering industrial designer : but i suppose it 's not as snappy . user interface : yeah . project manager : like as long as we realise that 's what it 'll do . marketing : well the there is a there 's a delay on remotes i think . user interface : oops . yeah . marketing : where you can have it industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's like a five second input time . industrial designer : yeah . if you do n't put it marketing : so as long as you hit them dada industrial designer : yeah . yeah , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that yeah . marketing : it should be fine . project manager : yeah . marketing : as long as there 's not a big pause between the t hitting the two buttons . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . so industrial designer : um marketing : was there so on the top there is volume and industrial designer : and channel , user interface : a channel . industrial designer : which is so you could just go like that without thinking about it , like marketing : channel up volume up . okay cool . project manager : c_ and v_ . user interface : just so we can flick project manager : right , where um where 's the power button ? marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's in the middle of one of the little r_s . industrial designer : it 's the bigger r_ . marketing : it 's the r_ . project manager : oh okay . industrial designer : so it 's just like . user interface : yeah , project manager : yeah . user interface : so it 's all accessible . without m taking your hand off the remote . industrial designer : we deci project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah um we went for like a a circular design for the numbers marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : because we thought that 's kind of a more natural movement than just going like that with your thumb . project manager : oh okay . industrial designer : uh e ergonomics are all considered . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : ergonomic , definitely ergonomic . user interface : and it might actually help with the repetitive stress injury as well . marketing : industrial designer : it could cause another type of repetitive stress injury though . user interface : okay . industrial designer : but yeah , no i mean it 's a different movement marketing : industrial designer : so yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um and the feel of it , i mean , we 've made this out of play doh , which is representing the , you know , the rubber , and the spongy rubberness . project manager : user interface : project manager : the spon yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um 'cause it was said before in the material specification that this the this anti-r_s_i_ um material is often used in stress balls so this has got a you know a bit of give to it , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and it just feels feels different . user interface : yeah . project manager : bit of a stress ball feel . industrial designer : would you like to feel it yourselves ? user interface : yeah . project manager : yes . i would . industrial designer : how it fits in the palm of your hand ? marketing : project manager : my goodness . industrial designer : thanks . marketing : project manager : there you go . industrial designer : and you ? project manager : genevieve ? yeah . marketing : . oh it 's nice . oh i think i killed the five . industrial designer : marketing : i did . project manager : and something hmm . marketing : i killed the four . oh god . industrial designer : o okay , as for the colours , we were presented with um a limited range of colours for this prototype . user interface : of play doh yeah . marketing : oh it smells good . industrial designer : but we 're thinking that , seeing as we 're having it in interchangeable casing anyway , that this is not necessarily a representation of the true colours that we would necessarily use . or the combination . um and we 're thinking to carry-on with the fruit and vegetable theme , the colour um combination just could just be named after different fruit , like banana could be black and yellow , watermelon red and green , project manager : oh right . industrial designer : or vanilla might be the most popular if it just uh blends in user interface : 'cause it 'd be quite subtle and industrial designer : more settled cream instead of the others are all a bit garish . project manager : yeah . it looks more think like vanilla and banana would . industrial designer : banana 's more representative of our colour scheme , like the company the yellow and black . project manager : okay yeah . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> how did marketing design the product evaluation ? </s> marketing : okay now i think for this one i could would you guys prefer use the whiteboard or mayb maybe i 'll just do it on right on the screen where you can see it . um , we 're gon na be doing an evaluation report together based on the protoptype that we 've just seen . um and looking looking back at my notes from our both our conceptual and our functional meetings , um i made a list of what our original requirements and goals were , um , back to our kick-off meeting this morning . um , and we 'll evaluate as to whether we 've s done what we set out to do . um and we 're gon na do it on a one to seven scale where one is true and seven is false . so basically the lower p the lower the points the better . okay so question number one . does the remote whoops . sorry . oh i 'm not gon na be able um , i 'll do it on the whiteboard . i ca n't change it so i 'm g i 'm gon na ask you to push it down once . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss during the product evaluation ? </s> marketing : okay so number one . do we have a fancy look-and-feel ? industrial designer : feel i think . we 've been quite successful with the rubber coating project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and project manager : the look is a little bit more playful . user interface : well industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah i guess that depends on your definition of fancy , but it 's definitely different . project manager : oh definitely different yeah . marketing : it 's not your traditional yeah . industrial designer : i think the colour has a lot to do with it . i mean th the colours we were given for making the prototype are n't the colours that i think we would 've necessarily chosen . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it 's not the kind of ooh uh at all sleek project manager : oh you were only given red and black ? industrial designer : red , black and yellow , and orange . project manager : oh okay . user interface : yeah so industrial designer : um user interface : not very sleek and we do n't wan na go for black because most remote controls are black or grey . marketing : yeah . user interface : so we want it to be stand out that way , anyway . project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : but if you can imagine that in like a s just a maybe uh a kind of pale metallic-y finish or something user interface : yeah . a metallic-y finish we were thinking . industrial designer : well i know know it 's for rubber . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i mean diff if you can visualise this in nice colours i think it would look quite fancy . user interface : polished . okay yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . i kinda i like the potato look . project manager : it 's mango . industrial designer : oh well , potato , mango , fruit and veg . user interface : we we were we were thinking about marketing : it 's very different . it 's what ? project manager : it 's mango . marketing : oh sorry the mango the mango look . industrial designer : potato 's fine . potato 's fine . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah it is , fruit or vegetable depends on your mood . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . totally . it 's really adaptable . marketing : so i myself would say a one or a two . project manager : yeah . i would say two . personally . user interface : i w i 'd say two i think . marketing : it 's a two ? industrial designer : for the marketing : okay , user interface : fanciness . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : fancy marketing : one being true . so industrial designer : i uh two , three . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay , actu that 's pro that 's gon na get confusing , like that . okay so question number two was is it techn technologically innovative ? so i know we have the kinetic energy which is very innovative . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah and the use of the rubber . marketing : use of the rubber , the use of the l_e_d_ . industrial designer : for the anti-r_s_i_ . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the l_e_d_ use is n't particularly innovative marketing : is n't industrial designer : and we do n't have any scroll buttons , it 's all pushbuttons , there 's no lcd control , so if we 're thinking about the rest of the market , it 's sort of probably halfway . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : in some aspects it is , like we said . project manager : yeah . i 'd say maybe three . user interface : i 'll go for three as well . marketing : yeah . and i think i mean it it 's tough to say because we were we did n't want it to be any more innovative than this , because then that would 've defeated the purpose . project manager : yeah we want it simple . industrial designer : yeah . though it was our specification . user interface : no . would n't be simple , yeah . marketing : so i mean i we 'll put three , but i think we actually reached our goal . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : we did n't want it any more than that . okay question number three . uh , will it be easy to use ? project manager : i think so . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah very . marketing : yeah . user interface : i think one for that . marketing : yeah . s yeah project manager : yeah . one . marketing : i think it 's industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : you ca n't really get confused with that . i mean , there 'll be s we have to work out the uh number the plus system . project manager : the plus number thing . user interface : yeah that 's the only thing yeah . marketing : but once that 's figured out , it should be fine . industrial designer : yeah and perhaps the turning on but user interface : marketing : number four . is this a good-looking remote ? remember that seventy five percent of users find most remote controls ugly . user interface : it 's definitely industrial designer : again i think the colour comes into this . project manager : yeah colour will definitely be a factor . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think that the logo could be smaller . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and maybe not such a prominent way . user interface : yeah . project manager : maybe like at the bottom , kind of . user interface : but the industrial designer : not in user interface : remember the management said that it it had to be prominent . project manager : oh it just had to be on there i guess . marketing : whoops . user interface : yeah . marketing : should just not touch it . project manager : industrial designer : do n't worry . marketing : this time it 's the three i killed . i was just wondering if it should be like flatter . or industrial designer : i suppose i 've got quite big hands . project manager : i like the appeal of it being like a big glob in your hand . marketing : well user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : but you know what i 've just thought of there now . what where 's it gon na sit in your living room ? is it not gon na fall off the arm of the sofa ? project manager : maybe if the bottom was just sort of flat , and then the rest is like marketing : yeah the bottom could be like ch chopped a bit . user interface : yeah . project manager : round . user interface : but then it would n't sit as comfortably in your hand . marketing : oh . that 's true . project manager : it would still be comfortable i think . we c we could handle it i think . industrial designer : thing is like that , it 's not going anywhere particularly . user interface : yeah . marketing : maybe , it could it could be on the bottom , so you would n't loo like if it 's flat here , so it sits up . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like that . user interface : oh that would be nice . project manager : ah it 'd fall over all the time though . it 'd be annoying . industrial designer : uh yeah , it 's less um , what 's th ha . user interface : yeah . marketing : i g if it 's weighted maybe . project manager : user interface : project manager : 'kay we 're done designing . industrial designer : h it 's got higher centre of gravity like that . marketing : details , details . project manager : come on . marketing : okay . so , is this a good-looking remote ? would we wan na show it off to our friends ? user interface : three . you would though , 'cause it 's bit it 's more interesting than other remotes . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think , it was another colour and it was like i think it 'd look okay . i think maybe a two . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : i would definitely go for that rather than like your average plain old remote like that , marketing : i mean i gue yeah , it 's personal taste , but user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but definitely in another colour , i 'm not happy with those colours . marketing : okay , so should we say two for that ? project manager : sure . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . uh , question number five . what 's um will people be willing to spend twenty five euros on this product ? remember that eighty percent of users were willing to spend more money when a remote control looked fancy . user interface : i think we have to market it in the right way , that um to say that it is simplistic . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so people do n't just see it and think , uh , this is so simplistic , i do n't want to spend twenty five euros . project manager : yeah . user interface : we have to market it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah it the marketing will have a lot to do with it . industrial designer : and the kinetic energy , shaker-style-y , whoo , user interface : and the kinetic energy part . yeah . project manager : yeah . durable . industrial designer : ooh no . marketing : shake it and the buttons fall off . industrial designer : but you know , those 'll be firmly on . user interface : do n't shake oh no the plus . you 're marketing : no , i guess , i do n't know much about the remote control industry , how much your average sells for , user interface : use the zero . industrial designer : user interface : make a new one . project manager : but you 're our marketing expert . marketing : but i know i am , are n't i ? user interface : i think they 're about ten po ten pound , are n't they ? about ten pounds . fifteen ? marketing : but you do n't have to buy batteries . so in the long term this can actually save you money . industrial designer : mm , yeah , that 's true . user interface : yeah . project manager : oh . exactly . exactly . marketing : so we 'll market it that way too . industrial designer : yeah . good point . marketing : so yeah i think with a good marketing scheme um and the personalisation options , it 'll user interface : project manager : yeah . i would give it a two still though . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . okay number six . can someone read it out ? industrial designer : does this prototype match the operating behaviour of the average user . marketing : or user interface : yeah . marketing : um yeah . so that was mainly that the statistics industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i think it does very well . project manager : oh yeah . industrial designer : because marketing : we said industrial designer : yeah , because the most accessible buttons are the volume and the and the channel-changing . user interface : the zap project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and it 's just you wo n't have to think about it . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you do n't have to look down to find them . marketing : industrial designer : they 're clearly there , easy to use . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : simple . user interface : uh marketing : yeah i guess the i think the key word there is average , 'cause there were some people that used the uh video input and sound and stuff . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but they 're not you and i really . project manager : yeah . marketing : so . okay so one ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . number seven . c heather could you push it down ? will this remote control be easy to find when lost ? remember that fifty percent of users lose their remote regularly . project manager : we have the alarm system . marketing : now is there the is the alarm system still was it implemented ? user interface : yeah the bu when you press the alarm system , the lights behind the and it 'll vibra industrial designer : it yeah marketing : industrial designer : l lights on and , or flash as well . but i mean it 's not obviously obvious from the outside that that 's gon na happen 'cause you ca n't s particularly see an alarm . user interface : it 'll be again in the marketing . project manager : i thought the light from the inside was gon na light up . user interface : yeah . the light it will . project manager : or or was it gon na make a noise ? industrial designer : yeah . but when the alarm 's not user interface : but industrial designer : yeah . if you user interface : but both marketing : project manager : you press the button it makes a noise right ? marketing : it turns into a duck and starts quacking . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you could s project manager : yeah . awesome . awesome . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : oh , that would be brilliant . marketing : here i am . user interface : i 'd be tempted to industrial designer : well the thing is , if it was had an alarm system , marketing : um industrial designer : i mean , when it when it lights up as we i mean it could light up when the alarm went . but if it was hidden underneath the cushion or something , there would n't be any point . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so you ca n't see the alarm , but it would light up . user interface : it would have to be in the market project manager : i though w it was gon na make a noise . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah . alarm , user interface : yeah but you still could n't see it . industrial designer : but you ca n't see an alarm inside uh the alarm system itself . user interface : it would just be a little speaker on the back or something . project manager : okay . marketing : we oh you 're just explaining why it 's not on the prototype . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . it w yeah . marketing : but yeah , it 'll be there . project manager : oh okay . marketing : so we can we could say that project manager : whoo . okay . industrial designer : sorry . user interface : marketing : we can give it a one , because compared to every other remote ever m ever made , this one will be easier to find . project manager : yeah , totally . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . um industrial designer : sorry heather . user interface : project manager : no problem , mm . industrial designer : that was n't very clear . marketing : question number eight . will it be easy to learn how to use this remote when brand new ? remember that thirty four percent of users usually found it difficult . project manager : totally . marketing : so it has to be yeah , it 's eas they 'll pick it up and they 'll know what to do . user interface : so the plu the plus w once that 's written down on the page that 'll be really simple , marketing : the plus thing needs to be worked on . project manager : yeah . user interface : wo n't it ? industrial designer : i think marketing : yeah . industrial designer : just because it 's we 've decided to reduce it down to the basic buttons , i think that in itself makes it so much easier to use . marketing : well user interface : yeah . marketing : do does it make more sense for the middle one to be an just an enter button ? so then you would have to push two buttons every time at least . project manager : yeah , so it 's just like channel six , six , enter . user interface : that kind of annoys me though , when it 's zero six when you have to press project manager : yeah but you do n't have to press zeros . user interface : i do n't know why . marketing : you could just press six enter , user interface : oh okay . right . project manager : and then like twelve , enter . industrial designer : and or sixty six enter , y marketing : or one two enter . user interface : alright , aye . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah i think that 's probably more straightforward . yeah . good project manager : user interface : yeah . marketing : um , okay so we can user interface : i 'd say w yeah one . marketing : we 'll say yes it 's uh one ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : ooh . mm . marketing : question number nine . uh , will it minimise the effects of r_s_i_ , which was repeated strain injury ? industrial designer : injury . user interface : yeah . marketing : um , which affected over a quarter of users . user interface : hmm . project manager : i think so . it 's like right in the user interface : but if you 're zapping project manager : your thumb might get a little bit uh industrial designer : yeah , that 's what i was thinking . user interface : yeah . i do n't think it will f industrial designer : we may have to do some more research into other strain injuries that we do n't know about . user interface : yeah , project manager : yeah . user interface : the biology . project manager : but it is soft . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's soft , project manager : and that 's kind of what the um marketing : and project manager : the powerpoint slide thing said would be good for r_s_i_ , marketing : and people could industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so maybe it is but marketing : i do n't know what other options there are . industrial designer : i think we 're getting project manager : yeah . industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : could i mean , you could hold it in your left hand and d use your index finger . but there 's not really any other options unless it 's like a keyboard . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so , i think we did as as much as you can with a remote control . project manager : yeah . marketing : so , one or two do you think ? industrial designer : i think user interface : i i 'd say t industrial designer : yeah , i think too . user interface : two . yeah project manager : yeah . marketing : two okay . okay number ten . did we somehow incorporate the company colour and logo ? project manager : yes we did . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : now is the colour gon na be there even if it 's like vanilla ? user interface : n we we ca n't really do that marketing : is the yellow user interface : because for example on the banana theme we ca n't have it as being yellow . industrial designer : user interface : it wo n't stand out . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so n it 's not always gon na be the same colour . marketing : it sounds like the colour 's something that we project manager : well , yeah the colours are yellow and grey . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : gray , yeah . project manager : so it could be grey on the banana one . user interface : yeah , could be grey . project manager : yeah . marketing : but i mean the yell yeah d yellow 's ugly though , user interface : yeah that 's right , marketing : depending on the user interface : we did n't even rea marketing : so i think we 'll have to talk to our executive managers , and see if we can get away with just the r_r_ . industrial designer : mm . yeah . i think this is the user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the factor that we 've been least successful in confronting . marketing : okay . user interface : perhaps a metallic project manager : mm , yeah . user interface : or or like that 's grey , and it would n't be that expensive to have a little bit of metal . no ? marketing : yeah . user interface : that is n't rubber . marketing : and the buttons in the middle . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay so , do you think that 's more of a three then ? three , four ? industrial designer : four i think . well i do n't marketing : four ? industrial designer : what do what marketing : well we have good reasons for it , so we but we can still put a a four ? industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : okay , and final question . um , did we stay true to our motto and put the fashion into electronics ? industrial designer : user interface : </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the product cost ? </s> project manager : oh i guess looking at your own too and telling me which one you think . okay we 're using kinetic which is quite a large expense at three euros . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um we 're using a regular chip . user interface : oh right . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , it 's cur it 's double curved , so its curved all around . industrial designer : double double-curved yeah . project manager : that 's another three . we 're already at five . um , we 're using plastic and rubber , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so good thing plastic is free , we 're at eight . um s user interface : what about a special colour ? project manager : yeah . user interface : are we using that ? project manager : i guess we should do it just for one kind . so it 's like special colour well we 'll have two colours industrial designer : yeah . project manager : right ? well one colour for the case , one colour for the buttons . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so we can industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : um , we have push button interface , so that 's inexpensive . and um we have a special colour for the button , and we also have a special form . and a special material . user interface : and a special material . yeah . </s>
<s> what did the team say about the project and overall process ? </s> project manager : awesome . and back to our powerpoint . so we 've 'kay . yes we are . so we need to do a product evaluation , again , user interface : project manager : which is probably um i dunno . a different extension of a industrial designer : of the actual project rather than the product ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : a project ? is is project manager : yeah 'cause we 're talking about leadership , teamwork . industrial designer : yeah . so wh how we actually went round uh about doing it . project manager : yeah . alright so um do you guys feel like there was room for creativity ? industrial designer : i think we were pushed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : pushed for creativity ? user interface : industrial designer : i mean we were n't really given a lot of time , or materials , yeah , to go about our design task . user interface : the ma or materials . industrial designer : so i think we could 've done with a bit more time . user interface : yeah . project manager : ye okay . industrial designer : project manager : so it 'd be like need more time and materials . but you were allowed m creativity ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i think so as like but you were supposed to have creativ industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah and the conceptual and functional . like we were very creative in in coming up with an idea i guess , but m industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : well we were just limited by resources really and like if we had decided to use the lcd screen , and like solar power backup and everything , then we would n't have been able to afford that . marketing : when we can down to it . user interface : yeah . project manager : right . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so that did limit creativity . user interface : creativity . industrial designer : just resources . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but yeah . the fruit and veg idea . project manager : great . user interface : marketing : project manager : leadership ? is this me being like , guys do you like me ? um . user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : good leadership , i think we stayed on task . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah we did . we 've , uh seeing as we 've come out with what we intended . a pro um a product within the budget . i think that 's a sign of good leadership marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and also our personal coach helped us along the way , user interface : marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so you know i think it 's been fine . marketing : and the timing was good . we never were pushed for time , or sat around doing nothing , so industrial designer : yeah . good timing . user interface : yeah . project manager : oop okay . user interface : marketing : project manager : teamwork ? industrial designer : and project manager of course . project manager : i think we worked great as a team . yeah ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : was good teamwork . i think we are well-suited to our roles . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : alright how were our means ? industrial designer : um project manager : we needed more play doh colours . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah and more play doh , marketing : industrial designer : 'cause that was all the red we had . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so even if we wanted to make a bigger prototype , we would n't have been able to . user interface : yeah , it c it might 've been bigger . project manager : marketing : oh really ? project manager : but ever everything else was satisfactory ? marketing : okay . project manager : is that good user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . the computer programmes are good . industrial designer : yeah . it could be really straightforward for the computer . marketing : the industrial designer : i think the only thing was having to remember to you know to tick the okays marketing : yeah . i do n't think there was anything user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but i think i was the only one who struggled with that . project manager : user interface : marketing : user interface : i 'm actually not sure if i 've saved my presentations . project manager : yeah ? marketing : project manager : industrial designer : mm . uh me too . marketing : they 'll probably still be there . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : new ideas found . i do n't really know what that means . user interface : industrial designer : well i think we 've all learnt stuff from each other , marketing : um industrial designer : like the n um user interface : yeah . through discussion . industrial designer : yeah . just about each different . got new ideas from each other . marketing : i 'm not sure , new ideas found . yeah well i guess we really it we bounced off of each other , which was cool . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : like based on marketing stuff and then you 'd say something about interface and industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , worked well . user interface : and we were a able to modify each other 's ideas marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : to fit in with our areas of expertise . project manager : yeah . each other 's marketing : oh does it have smart materials by the way ? industrial designer : sorry ? marketing : does it have smart materials ? industrial designer : oh yeah . marketing : oh yeah . industrial designer : well mm , did it come into the into user interface : if if it if it industrial designer : i dunno if we counted that in the costs . user interface : if it can be afforded . project manager : okay ? well with that achieved , our last slide is our closing slide . user interface : project manager : yes our costs are within budget . it 's evaluated generally positively . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : and um do n't forget to complete final questionnaire and meeting summary . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : then we celebrate industrial designer : uh . fantastic . marketing : by watching tv ? project manager : in such a way that i have no idea . user interface : industrial designer : okay , brilliant . project manager : alright ? industrial designer : thank you very much . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , bye . user interface : </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : uh 'kay . so marketing : so so so . user interface : put on your mic . industrial designer : so you forgot how this works again ? user interface : boss . industrial designer : boss . marketing : maybe . maybe maybe maybe . project manager : okay so we 're here to talk about the detailed design of the product , 'kay ? and here 's the agenda for this meeting . uh i 'm just gon na open , say a few boring words to start with again , and start taking minutes afterwards . you guys are gon na give us a presentation of our wonder product that i can see some demonstrations of over there . looks cool . and then we 're gon na evaluate it . marketing : bra user interface : project manager : then we 're gon na talk about finance , and i 've got a lovely excel spreadsheet that i knocked up in the last five minutes for this . and uh industrial designer : hmm you knocked it up ? project manager : yep . and we 're gon na evaluate the product and close . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : got forty minutes to do this in . we should be fine . let 's try and keep this one on schedule . user interface : alright . project manager : so industrial designer : project manager : your thing is in where is it ? is it in user interface : three , three . industrial designer : thi third third third . the end product thingy . yeah . project manager : who wants it ? user interface : pedro can have it . industrial designer : user interface : i like industrial designer : . user interface : i 'll help talk . industrial designer : um yeah so what we ended up with . production costs estimated by our manufacturing department and um the research department , which is us , is uh fifteen point eight euros , user interface : industrial designer : someone forgot the units there user interface : unit price . industrial designer : yeah , uh unit price unit production price cost thing . um we implemented the basic functions , which is just tv functions plus the locator , which was one of the marketing things , cradle , scroll wheel for uh the the channels , and uh we implemented the f the the way of putting the new and revolutionary zapping , your favourite channels functionality , in the scroll . project manager : zapping your favourite channels , eh ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : scrolling through your favourites list . project manager : oh okay okay . industrial designer : zapping you know zapping . project manager : ah 'kay okay , that 's favourites . industrial designer : maybe it 's just a portuguese thing . and um yeah that was the result . project manager : ah 'kay . i like the the the the logo on there as well . industrial designer : user interface : it 's very prominent . project manager : it is very prominent . so this is the user interface : so here i 'll give you the so this is the cradle unit , and this is the actual remote itself . um so the scroll bar is or the scroll wheel is this this green little scrolly guy here , um and then the volume controls are here and here . project manager : okay . user interface : uh you 've got the keypad which is the numbers uh f from zero to nine and then ten . this is the power button . uh we have our um we have the enter button and uh what was the other button here ? this is the teletext . industrial designer : start s the the start uh to to to user interface : the programme button , industrial designer : programme yeah . project manager : ah , okay i see . user interface : yeah the programme button . so this bl this button will be used both for the favourites and for programming your uh the um the type of television you wan na use . so um the plastic is the white area of this of the model here , and the red area is like a rubber covering . project manager : it 's pretty cool . user interface : so you can see that when it lays like this or like this and the buttons are all gon na be rubber , so it 's pretty hard to actually damage it um project manager : is that could that be easy to for the scroll wheel to be rotated if it lands on it ? user interface : yeah that might be a possible a mi uh possible problem , but if you drop it industrial designer : not helping . project manager : user interface : yeah . project manager : oh well i guess it depends on the stiffness a little of it . user interface : yeah and it depends on if it 's sliding , but i think it 's pretty ergonomic . you can feel it . project manager : mm . feels good . industrial designer : project manager : i take it that this is gon na be slightly lighter in the final design as well . user interface : yeah of course . well this is clay . industrial designer : project manager : yeah it 's kinda cool . you have to reach a little bit do n't you . user interface : yeah the the power button is a bit of a reach , but i think we might scale down the final model a bit . project manager : ah yeah that would n't make sense . user interface : these this is a bit larger than it would be , but project manager : it 's cool . i 'm impressed . industrial designer : do n't have no one to handle that . user interface : project manager : and hold it so marketing : mm that 's project manager : wh what 's the marketing perspective ? marketing : oh that 's oh i like it . i mean you guys gave me more than i was asking for , so i 'm happy because we 've got some really marketable features in this . yeah i think it 's good . good good good job . user interface : mm pedro can demonstrate the the paging ability . industrial designer : yeah . so you ha you have like the the base station with um the little button for the where 's my remote . user interface : beep beep beep . marketing : uh pla user interface : industrial designer : the locator function . marketing : i 'm ha project manager : okay . marketing : it 's great . that 's great . it 's a great feature . user interface : um beep beep beep project manager : mm it 's impressing . industrial designer : wicked is n't it ? project manager : so let me get it , user interface : so project manager : if i press this button user interface : beep beep beep project manager : i see . that 's pretty cool . hang on . user interface : beep beep beep be shut up . industrial designer : marketing : so you can take this ho take this home with you tonight and you can push that and he 'll be across town user interface : beep beep beep project manager : i plan to do that as well . user interface : okay . um no no no tha that 's alri project manager : so the the two blue are are those for the the it to charge off of in ? user interface : exactly that 's exactly what those are for . project manager : ah okay okay . user interface : and um there 's one other feature that we were debating , but we decided to go against it , is um you could industrial designer : project manager : user interface : beep beep beep industrial designer : user interface : we were thinking that it might be interesting to have a trigger button here because you have this finger project manager : yeah it 's the right shape is n't it ? user interface : it it 's it kinda feels like there should be something there , but we could n't figure out what button is important enough to put there . and we we do n't wan na accidentally be hitting the power button like that so project manager : but maybe if you had a trigger plus the scroll then that would get past the the problem of it landing and scrolling , 'cause then it would need to be hit on both sides . user interface : right . so maybe in a final design phase we might tweak that a little bit , project manager : okay . user interface : but marketing : uh , i can see that . project manager : but it 's definitely got options for like different types of models and things as well based on that , has n't it ? user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : yep i like . good job . project manager : so is that the the final colour scheme as well or ? marketing : no no . user interface : oh no this is just what we had to work with at the time . project manager : okay . user interface : so we 'll leave the colour scheme up to the marketing people . project manager : the hmm . user interface : careful . project manager : it came off . the scroll wheels , a problem with them not being sort of user interface : industrial designer : project manager : i do n't think the user interface guy wants to touch it anymore . marketing : well i mean of course , i mean user interface : industrial designer : marketing : my my s my suggestion is we 're gon na go go to the silvers and blacks like most of the televisions . you know some blend of silvers and blacks . user interface : beep beep beep . project manager : okay enough of that . industrial designer : project manager : well i it 's cool guys . 'kay so are we done with the this presentation ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : now now . user interface : marketing : so you 're not gon na find my uh my folder up there i got ta do mine up at the board . project manager : have you ? okay . marketing : yeah yeah . so project manager : can i not get your get at stuff from your shared folder now ? marketing : no it 's not in there because i had the computer problem and i i i cou i could n't create it . project manager : oh i see i see . marketing : i could n't create it in the powerpoint , project manager : marketing : and i think i 've got this really strange cable . so what i had , basically going from the powerpoint format , is that uh yeah yeah i like this a lot . is this one of the tests is to see how we can adapt to s changing situations in the in the meeting room ? project manager : industrial designer : nah . user interface : marketing : so what we had is we had the method . that 's not how you spell method , is it ? user interface : no way . project manager : marketing : no a_ . . so this does n't go so fast this way . and when i speak about method i speak about the marketing of the product huh . and uh to me with this product we got uh we got basically three things to market . we 've got the features , we have the uh characteristics , and we have the i i do n't know what we would call the other part what we call you know the the the corp corporate help me . the the corporation stands behind the product , okay . so the features i think we got the scroll , we 've got the uh the locator , we 've got the durability , we 've got the dependability , industrial designer : it fell off . marketing : we 've got you know the features that make this a unique product . um user interface : beep beep beep . marketing : the characteristics i talk about , we have reliability , we have comfort , we have ergonomics , we have environmentally s sensitive . uh and the corporation , we 're talking about we 're we 're a new we 're a new company . we 're wanting to make a name for ourself . we 're wanting you to uh find our product so we 're gon na give you a good product at a fair price . one thing i would want to to see is uh is can we can we get a lifetime uh guarantee on this product , a normal use guarantee , which means that this product , for the for the life of of the life use , if it should have a technical problem , that we could re replace it at no cost ? that was something i would be interested in . um so yeah without uh going into great details , we have a we have a product , it has the features and the characteristics , and the background , i believe , to make it marketable i believe at a cost of of of thirty thirty five to to fifty euros . we 're gon na be competitive , and we 're gon na we 're gon na have a market niche . um w project manager : do you would you a argue that that we 're better going for the higher cost than bringing it down into twenty f five as we probably could , but lowering our profit margins ? marketing : that that would be uh that would be i think a decision best made by corporate um i i m for my evaluation , based on what our competition is , i th i think that that we can go after this and and and go after more of the uh exclusivity sense than the mass market sense . project manager : mm-hmm . mm 'kay . marketing : but i 'm sh i 'm sure open to to market this in either direction . but you guys came up with a great product , and at that cost i think it uh there 's nobody else that 's putting this this combination of of ingredients together . the only limitations i see to this is that we 're focused on television only . uh that 's the only that 's the only drawback i see to this . but with all of these other features i think people c one thing i 'm i 'm hoping for is people are not gon na even notice . there 's gon na be somebody going home and say oh sh this thing does n't work for my d_v_d_ and my but i like these other things , so they keep it , they do n't take it back . project manager : and we 're actually quite open to be able to expand the product for a later version with those features quite simply anyway , are n't we ? th there 's no fundamentally different technology to do that . marketing : well one of one of the thoughts that i had is can can this unit be be produced in a way that makes it upgradable ? you know uh like like a um a sim card in a in a um in a telephone . you know is there a card in th can we make a card and so after industrial designer : w we need we need we need s some more buttons if it would to work on some other stuff , but user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm , but you follow what i 'm s i 'm s industrial designer : we we w yeah we could get another version of it that actually works . but uh marketing : yeah 'cause if if we can make this unit upgradable then we 're yeah but then we talk about changing the warranty concept and everything , but that 's that was just an idea i had . uh to me the only additions project manager : yeah , the plus there 's the the risk of making it unusable as well , or making it less b because at the moment it 's actually very straightforward to look at all the buttons , you know what they do , it 's very simple , and it just works . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm there 's a risk of that . marketing : yep . but anyway that 's uh project manager : okay so we can talk about finance now . so i have a little spreadsheet for us where i i was wondering , you when you talked about the fifteen point eight euros , i was wondering how you came up with that figure ? user interface : well , that was just just our technical team added up the um production costs of the individual units . marketing : project manager : okay so i have bit of a spreadsheet here for this . now industrial designer : very co very colf colourful . project manager : i 've made a f few assumptions here in that i 'm assuming that our power adaptor we can make for a cost of four euros , user interface : uh-huh . project manager : equivalent to solar cells , which i think is probably fair considering that we have in-house manufacturing of power adaptors already . user interface : uh-huh . project manager : uh and i 'm assuming that the locator beacon , the you know the user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : beep beep beep . project manager : can be made for it sounded different that time uh can be made for a similar price to uh an l_c_ display , user interface : oh , sorry . industrial designer : project manager : uh an uh uh do you think that 's fair coming from a m the manufacturing ? user interface : yeah um i do think we that we we uh do n't need the events chip on print , we only need the uh the regular chip on print , project manager : . okay . user interface : so there may have been a m miscalculation in there . project manager : yep . okay . so we 're down to sixteen point four , yeah . user interface : and we and we have a single-curved uh project manager : is that a single-curved rather than a double-curved ? user interface : uh i think that project manager : we 're not entirely sure what single-curve versus double-cur marketing : we 've got a we 've got a curve and a droop . i do n't know whether that . user interface : it 's single-curved , project manager : you think ? okay user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'm convinced . but we save one euro that way , yeah ? so we come bring it down to fifteen point four . user interface : see it 's a little bit more than f single-curved . so yeah it 's fifteen point eight , that 's where we came up with it . project manager : well hang on . marketing : project manager : do do n't speak so it 's in here , in that user interface : okay . project manager : w do we have any we have special form do n't we ? user interface : yeah we do . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so that 's yeah . user interface : ah . what do you know . project manager : but the the the we have n't talked about any special colour though uh i do n't th user interface : oh it 's a that 's not very special , it 's pretty project manager : if we 're going for greys and silvers then i do n't think we 're o okay so we 're user interface : if th . project manager : push-button , scroll wheel , we 're basically we have uh th industrial designer : we do n't project manager : is this intended to be a button as well or just a scroll ? user interface : that 's a scroll . industrial designer : it 's a scroll . project manager : just a scroll ? it 's not one of the scrolls where , for example , with this one you could push it down to be a button ? user interface : uh no we just use it as a scroll . project manager : okay then we have fifteen point eight euros . user interface : it was a pretty accurate estimate i would say . project manager : it was n't bad . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we 're wicked . awesome . project manager : okay so we 're on to the user interface : s 's kind of s frighteningly accurate . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we 're on to the pat-on-the-back part of the presentation , where we have a look at the criterias th that paul the criterion criteria that paul has has given us , and we can use that to tell how 's it going ? anyone got any thoughts ? user interface : what ? project manager : how how have we done today ? user interface : i think we did pretty well . project manager : i think we did pretty well too . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that looks pretty spectacular . marketing : no , i think we come up with a with a attractive marketable um product and and concept . project manager : any other chang uh thoughts ? okay so th th what about um room for creativity ? marketing : project manager : is it the . industrial designer : that was mm-hmm user interface : sh i think there was plenty of room . project manager : i industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i think we we ended up being quite creative there . user interface : we got a couple innovative i couple innovative ideas . marketing : well we we we kinda broke we kinda at least adjusted every every criteria they gave us because we d we still have the the teletext capability in this thing right , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : we raised the price of it , we 've added two t new technology to it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so you know you know if this thing flies then we 've we 've adjusted or broken every every idea they gave us . project manager : not every idea necessarily , industrial designer : basically . project manager : it 's still a remote control . user interface : marketing : yeah yeah yeah yeah . project manager : uh no yeah but we did we did break with the specs a little bit i guess , industrial designer : project manager : but the uh marketing : but i like i mean when i say we have we had i believe we have room for creativity 'cause w this is we did it . project manager : 'kay leadership , what do we report back to the bosses ? no th th i think they were r reasonably flexible with us over the whole changing the specs thing . industrial designer : it was more of a teamwork thing then really leadership based project was project manager : i agree . industrial designer : teamwork . marketing : cohesive yeah . project manager : synergy . user interface : there was a lot of synergy . industrial designer : marketing : yes synergistic yeah . project manager : teamwork , yeah he is uh . marketing : yeah . project manager : what did we think of the meeting room , i guess is an important thing here . mm . user interface : these cables suck . project manager : yeah , this falls off industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh the white board worked really well without any pro industrial designer : and that 's user interface : yeah . industrial designer : d you must have very long shirts . that 's way far down lapel mic . project manager : mm-mm , lapel . wha okay , oh , alright . industrial designer : lapel lapel lapel . user interface : lapel . industrial designer : that 's almost a crotch mi cr project manager : that 's it 's down , it 's quite close . marketing : you know you know what they 're gon na have on the recording in there from that microphone is your lunch digesting you know th project manager : keep it , keep it calm . oh dear . no more pizza for me . industrial designer : oh dear oh dear . marketing : project manager : so yeah the the pen came in alright and it 's a little uncomfortable to use but i guess it works . industrial designer : 'cause this is you were using it o upside down . still that user interface : that 's our boss . project manager : nah , i 'm i 'm not convinced of that at all . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : i 've been wor i 've been wondering about that all day , but see these look like they 're that looks the oth that looks like it would be that way around , industrial designer : use them like that . user interface : pedro 's right . project manager : but it feels more comfortable , wh what you call upside-down . user interface : pedro 's right . project manager : i do n't care . uh okay so that data might be slightly invalid . what new ideas have we found ? industrial designer : user interface : oh wel marketing : new ideas f uh for the product or for the the the the environment or project manager : well let 's do both then . marketing : what are we ta project manager : uh for the product ? user interface : well we had the favourites list , and the scroll bar , and we have the cradle , and the r uh remote call feature . project manager : yeah we came up with quite a bit . industrial designer : bunch of new ideas . project manager : and for the meeting room , has anyone got any more industrial designer : yeah comfortable headsets would be nice . project manager : yeah less sore on the ears . marketing : well i i mean clearly remote control microphones would be the would be a nice solution to all these cables , but i 'm sure that there 's there 's some justification for these things that i do n't know about . and of course i did not have so much fun with my computer this afternoon . user interface : marketing : it 's not been uh it 's not been cooperating so well , but i do n't think that 's the that 's avoidable . industrial designer : coulda been worse . project manager : okay so are the costs within the budget ? industrial designer : mm n no . project manager : nope . oh hang on it really that 's something we that the costs were under twelve fifty euros . no requirements are changed . we 're still under twenty euros to build , so we 're good . industrial designer : project manager : and the costs within the budget ? not the original budget , but they are now . is the project evaluated ? mm i think so yeah , then celebration as it says . industrial designer : hooray . marketing : okay . industrial designer : free coke provided at the cafeteria . project manager : oh i do n't know how that got there . user interface : all right . project manager : uh anyway . user interface : industrial designer : who wrote that one ? project manager : thank user interface : project manager : thanks guys . marketing : so we need to close this meeting , industrial designer : marketing : yeah bravo . congratulations . user interface : good job guys . industrial designer : cool . marketing : s i 've got a lot of paperwork to catch up on so let 's close this and come back and 'kay . </s>
<s> summarize the presentation on the function design . </s> industrial designer : yeah , uh unit price unit production price cost thing . um we implemented the basic functions , which is just tv functions plus the locator , which was one of the marketing things , cradle , scroll wheel for uh the the channels , and uh we implemented the f the the way of putting the new and revolutionary zapping , your favourite channels functionality , in the scroll . project manager : zapping your favourite channels , eh ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : scrolling through your favourites list . project manager : oh okay okay . industrial designer : zapping you know zapping . project manager : ah 'kay okay , that 's favourites . industrial designer : maybe it 's just a portuguese thing . and um yeah that was the result . project manager : ah 'kay . i like the the the the logo on there as well . industrial designer : user interface : it 's very prominent . project manager : it is very prominent . so this is the user interface : so here i 'll give you the so this is the cradle unit , and this is the actual remote itself . um so the scroll bar is or the scroll wheel is this this green little scrolly guy here , um and then the volume controls are here and here . project manager : okay . user interface : uh you 've got the keypad which is the numbers uh f from zero to nine and then ten . this is the power button . uh we have our um we have the enter button and uh what was the other button here ? this is the teletext . industrial designer : start s the the start uh to to to user interface : the programme button , industrial designer : programme yeah . project manager : ah , okay i see . user interface : yeah the programme button . so this bl this button will be used both for the favourites and for programming your uh the um the type of television you wan na use . so um the plastic is the white area of this of the model here , and the red area is like a rubber covering . project manager : it 's pretty cool . user interface : so you can see that when it lays like this or like this and the buttons are all gon na be rubber , so it 's pretty hard to actually damage it um project manager : is that could that be easy to for the scroll wheel to be rotated if it lands on it ? user interface : yeah that might be a possible a mi uh possible problem , but if you drop it industrial designer : not helping . project manager : user interface : yeah . project manager : oh well i guess it depends on the stiffness a little of it . user interface : yeah and it depends on if it 's sliding , but i think it 's pretty ergonomic . you can feel it . project manager : mm . feels good . industrial designer : project manager : i take it that this is gon na be slightly lighter in the final design as well . user interface : yeah of course . well this is clay . industrial designer : project manager : yeah it 's kinda cool . you have to reach a little bit do n't you . user interface : yeah the the power button is a bit of a reach , but i think we might scale down the final model a bit . project manager : ah yeah that would n't make sense . user interface : these this is a bit larger than it would be , but project manager : it 's cool . i 'm impressed . industrial designer : do n't have no one to handle that . user interface : project manager : and hold it so marketing : mm that 's project manager : wh what 's the marketing perspective ? marketing : oh that 's oh i like it . i mean you guys gave me more than i was asking for , so i 'm happy because we 've got some really marketable features in this . yeah i think it 's good . good good good job . user interface : mm pedro can demonstrate the the paging ability . industrial designer : yeah . so you ha you have like the the base station with um the little button for the where 's my remote . user interface : beep beep beep . marketing : uh pla user interface : industrial designer : the locator function . marketing : i 'm ha project manager : okay . marketing : it 's great . that 's great . it 's a great feature . user interface : um beep beep beep project manager : mm it 's impressing . industrial designer : wicked is n't it ? project manager : so let me get it , user interface : so project manager : if i press this button user interface : beep beep beep project manager : i see . that 's pretty cool . hang on . user interface : beep beep beep be shut up . industrial designer : marketing : so you can take this ho take this home with you tonight and you can push that and he 'll be across town user interface : beep beep beep project manager : i plan to do that as well . user interface : okay . um no no no tha that 's alri project manager : so the the two blue are are those for the the it to charge off of in ? user interface : exactly that 's exactly what those are for . project manager : ah okay okay . user interface : and um there 's one other feature that we were debating , but we decided to go against it , is um you could industrial designer : project manager : user interface : beep beep beep industrial designer : user interface : we were thinking that it might be interesting to have a trigger button here because you have this finger project manager : yeah it 's the right shape is n't it ? user interface : it it 's it kinda feels like there should be something there , but we could n't figure out what button is important enough to put there . and we we do n't wan na accidentally be hitting the power button like that so project manager : but maybe if you had a trigger plus the scroll then that would get past the the problem of it landing and scrolling , 'cause then it would need to be hit on both sides . user interface : right . so maybe in a final design phase we might tweak that a little bit , project manager : okay . user interface : but marketing : uh , i can see that . project manager : but it 's definitely got options for like different types of models and things as well based on that , has n't it ? user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : yep i like . good job . project manager : so is that the the final colour scheme as well or ? marketing : no no . user interface : oh no this is just what we had to work with at the time . project manager : okay . user interface : so we 'll leave the colour scheme up to the marketing people . project manager : the hmm . user interface : careful . project manager : it came off . the scroll wheels , a problem with them not being sort of user interface : industrial designer : project manager : i do n't think the user interface guy wants to touch it anymore . marketing : well i mean of course , i mean user interface : industrial designer : marketing : my my s my suggestion is we 're gon na go go to the silvers and blacks like most of the televisions . you know some blend of silvers and blacks . user interface : beep beep beep . project manager : okay enough of that . industrial designer : project manager : well i it 's cool guys . 'kay so are we done with the this presentation ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : now now . </s>
<s> what did the user interface designer and the project manager discuss about the trigger button ? </s> project manager : so the the two blue are are those for the the it to charge off of in ? user interface : exactly that 's exactly what those are for . project manager : ah okay okay . user interface : and um there 's one other feature that we were debating , but we decided to go against it , is um you could industrial designer : project manager : user interface : beep beep beep industrial designer : user interface : we were thinking that it might be interesting to have a trigger button here because you have this finger project manager : yeah it 's the right shape is n't it ? user interface : it it 's it kinda feels like there should be something there , but we could n't figure out what button is important enough to put there . and we we do n't wan na accidentally be hitting the power button like that so project manager : but maybe if you had a trigger plus the scroll then that would get past the the problem of it landing and scrolling , 'cause then it would need to be hit on both sides . user interface : right . so maybe in a final design phase we might tweak that a little bit , project manager : okay . user interface : but marketing : uh , i can see that . project manager : but it 's definitely got options for like different types of models and things as well based on that , has n't it ? </s>
<s> summarize the marketing expert 's perspective on the product . </s> marketing : so you 're not gon na find my uh my folder up there i got ta do mine up at the board . project manager : have you ? okay . marketing : yeah yeah . so project manager : can i not get your get at stuff from your shared folder now ? marketing : no it 's not in there because i had the computer problem and i i i cou i could n't create it . project manager : oh i see i see . marketing : i could n't create it in the powerpoint , project manager : marketing : and i think i 've got this really strange cable . so what i had , basically going from the powerpoint format , is that uh yeah yeah i like this a lot . is this one of the tests is to see how we can adapt to s changing situations in the in the meeting room ? project manager : industrial designer : nah . user interface : marketing : so what we had is we had the method . that 's not how you spell method , is it ? user interface : no way . project manager : marketing : no a_ . . so this does n't go so fast this way . and when i speak about method i speak about the marketing of the product huh . and uh to me with this product we got uh we got basically three things to market . we 've got the features , we have the uh characteristics , and we have the i i do n't know what we would call the other part what we call you know the the the corp corporate help me . the the corporation stands behind the product , okay . so the features i think we got the scroll , we 've got the uh the locator , we 've got the durability , we 've got the dependability , industrial designer : it fell off . marketing : we 've got you know the features that make this a unique product . um user interface : beep beep beep . marketing : the characteristics i talk about , we have reliability , we have comfort , we have ergonomics , we have environmentally s sensitive . uh and the corporation , we 're talking about we 're we 're a new we 're a new company . we 're wanting to make a name for ourself . we 're wanting you to uh find our product so we 're gon na give you a good product at a fair price . one thing i would want to to see is uh is can we can we get a lifetime uh guarantee on this product , a normal use guarantee , which means that this product , for the for the life of of the life use , if it should have a technical problem , that we could re replace it at no cost ? that was something i would be interested in . um so yeah without uh going into great details , we have a we have a product , it has the features and the characteristics , and the background , i believe , to make it marketable i believe at a cost of of of thirty thirty five to to fifty euros . we 're gon na be competitive , and we 're gon na we 're gon na have a market niche . um w project manager : do you would you a argue that that we 're better going for the higher cost than bringing it down into twenty f five as we probably could , but lowering our profit margins ? marketing : that that would be uh that would be i think a decision best made by corporate um i i m for my evaluation , based on what our competition is , i th i think that that we can go after this and and and go after more of the uh exclusivity sense than the mass market sense . project manager : mm-hmm . mm 'kay . marketing : but i 'm sh i 'm sure open to to market this in either direction . but you guys came up with a great product , and at that cost i think it uh there 's nobody else that 's putting this this combination of of ingredients together . the only limitations i see to this is that we 're focused on television only . uh that 's the only that 's the only drawback i see to this . but with all of these other features i think people c one thing i 'm i 'm hoping for is people are not gon na even notice . there 's gon na be somebody going home and say oh sh this thing does n't work for my d_v_d_ and my but i like these other things , so they keep it , they do n't take it back . project manager : and we 're actually quite open to be able to expand the product for a later version with those features quite simply anyway , are n't we ? th there 's no fundamentally different technology to do that . marketing : well one of one of the thoughts that i had is can can this unit be be produced in a way that makes it upgradable ? you know uh like like a um a sim card in a in a um in a telephone . you know is there a card in th can we make a card and so after industrial designer : w we need we need we need s some more buttons if it would to work on some other stuff , but user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm , but you follow what i 'm s i 'm s industrial designer : we we w yeah we could get another version of it that actually works . but uh marketing : yeah 'cause if if we can make this unit upgradable then we 're yeah but then we talk about changing the warranty concept and everything , but that 's that was just an idea i had . uh to me the only additions project manager : yeah , the plus there 's the the risk of making it unusable as well , or making it less b because at the moment it 's actually very straightforward to look at all the buttons , you know what they do , it 's very simple , and it just works . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm there 's a risk of that . </s>
<s> what did the marketing think of the marketable part of product design ? </s> marketing : no a_ . . so this does n't go so fast this way . and when i speak about method i speak about the marketing of the product huh . and uh to me with this product we got uh we got basically three things to market . we 've got the features , we have the uh characteristics , and we have the i i do n't know what we would call the other part what we call you know the the the corp corporate help me . the the corporation stands behind the product , okay . so the features i think we got the scroll , we 've got the uh the locator , we 've got the durability , we 've got the dependability , industrial designer : it fell off . marketing : we 've got you know the features that make this a unique product . um user interface : beep beep beep . marketing : the characteristics i talk about , we have reliability , we have comfort , we have ergonomics , we have environmentally s sensitive . uh and the corporation , we 're talking about we 're we 're a new we 're a new company . we 're wanting to make a name for ourself . we 're wanting you to uh find our product so we 're gon na give you a good product at a fair price . one thing i would want to to see is uh is can we can we get a lifetime uh guarantee on this product , a normal use guarantee , which means that this product , for the for the life of of the life use , if it should have a technical problem , that we could re replace it at no cost ? that was something i would be interested in . um so yeah without uh going into great details , we have a we have a product , it has the features and the characteristics , and the background , i believe , to make it marketable i believe at a cost of of of thirty thirty five to to fifty euros . we 're gon na be competitive , and we 're gon na we 're gon na have a market niche . um w project manager : do you would you a argue that that we 're better going for the higher cost than bringing it down into twenty f five as we probably could , but lowering our profit margins ? marketing : that that would be uh that would be i think a decision best made by corporate um i i m for my evaluation , based on what our competition is , i th i think that that we can go after this and and and go after more of the uh exclusivity sense than the mass market sense . </s>
<s> why did the industrial designer and the project manager disagree to make the product upgradable ? </s> marketing : well one of one of the thoughts that i had is can can this unit be be produced in a way that makes it upgradable ? you know uh like like a um a sim card in a in a um in a telephone . you know is there a card in th can we make a card and so after industrial designer : w we need we need we need s some more buttons if it would to work on some other stuff , but user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm , but you follow what i 'm s i 'm s industrial designer : we we w yeah we could get another version of it that actually works . but uh marketing : yeah 'cause if if we can make this unit upgradable then we 're yeah but then we talk about changing the warranty concept and everything , but that 's that was just an idea i had . uh to me the only additions project manager : yeah , the plus there 's the the risk of making it unusable as well , or making it less b because at the moment it 's actually very straightforward to look at all the buttons , you know what they do , it 's very simple , and it just works . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm there 's a risk of that . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about product quotation . </s> project manager : okay so we can talk about finance now . so i have a little spreadsheet for us where i i was wondering , you when you talked about the fifteen point eight euros , i was wondering how you came up with that figure ? user interface : well , that was just just our technical team added up the um production costs of the individual units . marketing : project manager : okay so i have bit of a spreadsheet here for this . now industrial designer : very co very colf colourful . project manager : i 've made a f few assumptions here in that i 'm assuming that our power adaptor we can make for a cost of four euros , user interface : uh-huh . project manager : equivalent to solar cells , which i think is probably fair considering that we have in-house manufacturing of power adaptors already . user interface : uh-huh . project manager : uh and i 'm assuming that the locator beacon , the you know the user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : beep beep beep . project manager : can be made for it sounded different that time uh can be made for a similar price to uh an l_c_ display , user interface : oh , sorry . industrial designer : project manager : uh an uh uh do you think that 's fair coming from a m the manufacturing ? user interface : yeah um i do think we that we we uh do n't need the events chip on print , we only need the uh the regular chip on print , project manager : . okay . user interface : so there may have been a m miscalculation in there . project manager : yep . okay . so we 're down to sixteen point four , yeah . user interface : and we and we have a single-curved uh project manager : is that a single-curved rather than a double-curved ? user interface : uh i think that project manager : we 're not entirely sure what single-curve versus double-cur marketing : we 've got a we 've got a curve and a droop . i do n't know whether that . user interface : it 's single-curved , project manager : you think ? okay user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'm convinced . but we save one euro that way , yeah ? so we come bring it down to fifteen point four . user interface : see it 's a little bit more than f single-curved . so yeah it 's fifteen point eight , that 's where we came up with it . project manager : well hang on . marketing : project manager : do do n't speak so it 's in here , in that user interface : okay . project manager : w do we have any we have special form do n't we ? user interface : yeah we do . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so that 's yeah . user interface : ah . what do you know . project manager : but the the the we have n't talked about any special colour though uh i do n't th user interface : oh it 's a that 's not very special , it 's pretty project manager : if we 're going for greys and silvers then i do n't think we 're o okay so we 're user interface : if th . project manager : push-button , scroll wheel , we 're basically we have uh th industrial designer : we do n't project manager : is this intended to be a button as well or just a scroll ? user interface : that 's a scroll . industrial designer : it 's a scroll . project manager : just a scroll ? it 's not one of the scrolls where , for example , with this one you could push it down to be a button ? user interface : uh no we just use it as a scroll . project manager : okay then we have fifteen point eight euros . user interface : it was a pretty accurate estimate i would say . project manager : it was n't bad . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we 're wicked . awesome . project manager : okay so we 're on to the user interface : s 's kind of s frighteningly accurate . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee this morning . we 've received no apologies for absence . can i ask if there are any declarations of interest from members , please ? no . okay , thank you . item 2 this morning is the children ( abolition of defence of reasonable punishment ) ( wales ) bill : stage 2 proceedings . i 'm pleased to welcome julie morgan am , deputy minister for health and social services ; karen cornish , deputy director , children and families division at welsh government ; and emma gammon , lawyer for welsh government . thank you for attending this morning and welcome to the committee . i 'm just going to run through the procedures that we 're going to follow now . as i said , the purpose of the meeting is to undertake stage 2 proceedings on the children ( abolition of defence of reasonable punishment ) ( wales ) bill . for these proceedings , members should have copies of the marshalled list of amendments , the groupings of the amendments for debate and the voting order for the amendments . the marshalled list of amendments is the list of all amendments tabled , marshalled into the order in which the sections appear in the bill . the order in which we consider amendments will be the default order—that is , sections 1 to 3 and the long title . you will see from the groupings list that amendments have been grouped to facilitate debate . however , the order in which they 're called and moved for decision is dictated by the marshalled list . members will , therefore , need to follow the two papers , although i will advise members when i call them whether they 're being called to speak in the debate or to move their amendments for a decision . there will be one debate on each group of amendments . members who wish to speak in a particular group should indicate to me in the usual way . i will call the deputy minister to speak on each group . for the record , in accordance with the convention agreed by the business committee , as chair i will move amendments in the name of the deputy minister . for expediency , i will assume that the deputy minister wishes me to move all of her amendments , and i will do so at the appropriate place in the marshalled list . deputy minister , if you do not want a particular amendment to be moved , please indicate to me at the relevant point in proceedings . in line with our usual practice , legal advisers to the committee and the deputy minister are not expected to provide advice on the record . if members wish to seek legal advice during proceedings , please do so by passing a note to the legal adviser and , if necessary , we can adjourn . my intention is to try to dispose of all amendments during today 's meeting . i will call a short break in proceedings at an appropriate time , if necessary . okay , thank you . so , we will proceed , then , to group 1 , which is the duty to promote public awareness . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 1 in the name of the deputy minister . i move amendment 1 in the deputy minister 's name and call on the deputy minister to speak to her amendment and the other amendments in this group . julie morgan am : thank you very much , chair . my amendments 1 and 4 will place a duty on welsh ministers to provide information and increase awareness about the change in the law to ensure that the public are made aware of how the law will change as a result of the defence of reasonable punishment being abolished and that physical punishment would be prohibited once the act commences . i tabled these amendments in response to this committee 's recommendation—this was a recommendation from this committee in the stage 1 report , so i have responded to that . i 've already made a commitment to a high-intensity awareness-raising campaign over approximately six years from royal assent , should the bill be passed . i 've considered amendments 1a to 1e , which have been tabled by janet finch-saunders , and which relate to the duty to raise awareness . amendment 1a introduces a reference to public understanding . we do n't think , actually , that this adds anything to the government amendment , which already mentions awareness . it makes the awareness-raising duty open-ended with no time limit , which is not necessary . by commencement , messaging around the change in the law will be embedded . the awareness-raising campaign will continue for a number of years . therefore , an ongoing duty referring specifically to the law change would not be required . i understand , of course , that the awareness-raising campaign needs to be comprehensive , well planned and to reach out to all those people and all those communities who need to be aware of the law change , and understand how to respond to it . but i do n't think it 's helpful or necessary to highlight specific groups , such as visitors to wales , on the face of the bill—that 's the approach taken in amendment 1e—as it risks placing too much emphasis on certain groups at the expense of others . in relation to children , the committee will know that i 'm fully committed to children ’ s rights , and that welsh ministers are already under a duty to have due regard to the rights of children whenever they exercise their functions . an additional due regard requirement , such as the one set out in amendment 1d , relating specifically to the need to promote awareness among children is not needed . this would be part and parcel of the welsh government approach to putting children ’ s rights at the heart of our policy making . similarly , i do n't think it 's necessary for the bill to set out specifically the topics that need to be covered in the awareness-raising campaign , as is suggested in amendments 1b and 1c . that level of detail , i do n't think , is for the face of the bill . information required about parenting support will be considered by the parenting expert group , under the auspices of the bill ’ s strategic implementation group , working with my officials and the expert stakeholder group on the awareness-raising campaign . and , really , their thinking should not be constrained in any way by specifications on the face of the bill . i think we always need to bear in mind that what the bill does is remove a defence to an existing criminal offence ; it does not create a new offence . and in this context , it does n't make sense for this bill to contain a provision requiring the provision of information about how a person may raise concerns if it appears to them that a child is being physically punished . as i set out in my letter to this committee responding to recommendation 15 on this point , safeguarding is everyone ’ s business , and , as now , the public have a role in highlighting to relevant services if they are concerned about a child . i 'm asking for the support of members for amendments 1 and 4 , and i ask members to reject amendments 1a to 1e because this would place unnecessary provisions on the face of the bill . lynne neagle am : thank you , deputy minister . are there other members who wish to speak ? janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . i wish to speak to amendments 1a to 1e , which relate to the deputy minister 's amendment on the duty to promote public awareness . while we believe it is absolutely imperative that the public are made aware of this controversial change in the law , the deputy minister 's amendment lacks a number of key points that the committee were actually keen to address at stage 1 . an important thread runs throughout each and every amendment that i 've tabled within this group—that of a sustained awareness campaign , which not only stretches beyond the implementation of the bill , but serves as a duty for future administrations . amendment 1a : primarily , amendment 1a changes amendment 1 to include the promotion of understanding changes to the law . i do n't think it 's enough for the welsh government to say that the public should be made aware of the coming into force of section 1 and that a public awareness campaign needs to be sustained until the welsh government 's objectives have been achieved . despite the fact that it is intended to change behaviour , the consequences of this law are far greater than that of organ donation or prohibiting smoking indoors . instead of an opt-out system or a civil offence , this law will remove a defence for parents , information on which could be there on their records for the rest of their lives , potentially separate parents , and could affect employment chances . as such , whilst we agree with the necessity of the awareness campaign , it is important too that the welsh government take stock and ensures that parents are not penalised due to a weak awareness campaign . the witnesses we heard before this committee also noted the necessity of ensuring that the public understands— lynne neagle am : janet , dawn is asking if you 'll take an intervention . dawn bowden am : i just wanted to know—could you give us examples of any other piece of legislation where there 's been indefinite public awareness campaigns once it 's been passed ? janet finch-saunders am : there 's a lot of legislation . the first assembly term when i was here— dawn bowden am : yes , what i 'm asking— janet finch-saunders am : i 'm trying to respond— dawn bowden am : what i 'm asking for is : can you give us specific examples of where there have been indefinite public awareness campaigns running indefinitely past the enactment of a piece of legislation ? janet finch-saunders am : the very first term that i was an assembly member , we passed 25 pieces of separate legislation . even today , as i sit here , the public are not aware of many of those pieces of legislation . this particular piece of legislation will have a profound effect on the parenting of children in wales . so , therefore , i think there is a necessity for both children and parents to become involved , and i shall speak now— dawn bowden am : with respect , chair , that 's not the question i asked . janet finch-saunders am : —to my amendments . lynne neagle am : i can call you in the debate , if you 'd like to make a more substantive contribution on this . yes . janet finch-saunders am : the witnesses who we heard from before this committee also noted the necessity of ensuring that the public understands the implications . and that 's what we 're talking about here , members—the implications of removing this defence . strikingly , the office of police and crime commissioner for gwent stated the following : 'the potential for public resistance to the bill through misunderstanding or confusion over it implications may pose the largest barrier to its implementation . ' if you are intent on removing the defence of reasonable punishment , it is therefore not unreasonable to ensure that law-abiding parents fully understand the ramifications of this bill . additionally , the committee found that while the current welsh government 's intention to deliver a public awareness campaign was beyond doubt , future governments may have less of a commitment . this places further weight on the fact that the welsh government should be under a duty to promote awareness and understanding of the bill beyond its commencement . furthermore , the children ( equal protection from assault ) ( scotland ) bill quite clearly notes that , under section 2 , the scottish ministers must take such steps as they consider appropriate to promote public awareness and understanding about the effect of section 1 on the abolition for the defence of reasonable punishment . therefore , i would be grateful if the deputy minister can respond as to the reasons why the welsh government has deviated from this course of action in their amendment . [ interruption . ] should our amendment be agreed— lynne neagle am : are you taking an intervention ? janet finch-saunders am : no . i 'd rather crack on , to be honest . lynne neagle am : okay . i can call you in the debate , hefin . janet finch-saunders am : should our amendment to be agreed , we also request that a printing change be made to ensure that the new heading reflects promoting awareness of the changes to the law made by section 1 . amendment 1b : amendment 1b is in line with the committee 's recommendation 9 , which stated that , as part of a public awareness campaign , there should be details about the support available to parents to use alternatives to physical punishment when disciplining their children . during evidence at stage 1 , the witnesses we saw before the committee raised serious concerns about harder-to-reach groups who needed to be made aware of removing the defence . for example , children in wales , action for children and play wales stated that some families and communities may be harder to reach with information and support . welsh government needs to make sure that they receive the information they need . now , while the deputy minister states that she would work hard to ensure that harder-to-reach groups receive this information , a duty to provide information on alternatives to physical punishment would ensure that future welsh governments would maintain a successful awareness-raising campaign . i note the deputy minister accepted the recommendation , through our amendment , but this does not explicitly include a duty to provide details about support for parents . as will be expanded upon later , the deputy minister has relied upon the 'parenting : give it time ' campaign to be delivered alongside awareness raising . however , this is only an online resource and she must be clear about what other avenues will be available to parents who do not have access to the internet or are part of harder-to-reach groups . amendment 1c : amendment 1c supports the committee 's recommendation 15 that explains that the welsh government should ensure clear advice is provided on what people can do if they have seen or learned of a child being physically assaulted . we urged , at stage 1 , that although many professionals were already under a duty to report concerns about physical punishment , regardless of the bill , other witnesses raised concerns that it could create the potential for claims of abuse that are unfounded . in particular , some were worried that children , who may not realise the implications of reporting , could make allegations that are actually untrue . while we would expect the awareness-raising campaign to include the consequences of false accusations , this could also be reflected among adults , if the public are not sufficiently made aware of how they can report and in what situations they can report a case of assault . lynne neagle am : thank you . i 've got several speakers . i 've got suzy davies first , then dawn bowden . suzy davies am : thank you very much , chair . thank you minister , and thank you , janet , for that . i think it 's worth just pointing out at this stage that the majority of the amendments that are being made and articulated by janet there are based on committee recommendations , and those recommendations were made after taking evidence from the public at large , but also you as well . so , that suggests that , at that stage , we were n't reassured by the offer that you were making because we felt the need to put these recommendations into our report . now , i recognise that you 've moved some way on some of these amendments , and we 'll been talking about that through the course of the debates on other groups . but the one thing to bear in mind here is this is legislation , now—that means that this is the instrument of the assembly , not of government , and if this assembly feels that the face of the bill is unclear on the minimum requirements of a public awareness campaign , then we have the right to suggest the things that we would like to see in that public awareness-raising campaign . the list that janet has given is a minimum . the reason these have been tabled individually and independently is that some may be acceptable where others may not be , so it will be disappointing to hear that you 're rejecting them all , and the reason they need to go on the face of the bill is that , if you are going to introduce specifics via regulation , at the moment we have no reassurance about how you 're going to do that—about what input the assembly , on behalf of our constituents , could have in designing that public awareness-raising campaign . unless you accept some amendments in other groups , that is the position with this bill : the influence of the assembly will be zero over the content of an awareness-raising campaign . in terms of it being non-time limited , i think the amendment has been tabled in the way it has not to oblige you to an everlasting , never-ending campaign of awareness raising . but if you bear in mind that , seven years after the introduction of this bill , there 's going to be some reporting on the effectiveness of the bill , what is the point of doing that if you do n't then have an obligation , should the reports require it to be necessary , to continue promoting the changes in the law ? i accept that that ca n't go on for centuries , but to actually limit it to two years on an issue that is so sensitive , and which has a reach beyond our boundaries , i think is genuinely a mistake . finally , you mention that safeguarding is everyone 's business . i think that 's true , but i think janet finch-saunders was right to say that members of the public , ordinary individuals , not professionals , will need assurance that they 're doing the right thing . the amendment as listed is not even there to encourage people to do that , although that can be read in that way , but it is to help them be certain that they are doing the right thing . if this is going to be up to the individual , as you 've said , and the committee itself was n't reassured that individuals would know what to do , perhaps i can ask you to consider at stage 3 , if you 're going to reject this amendment , how you can reassure members of the public that , if they are going to intervene on the back of this law , they 're making things better , not worse . lynne neagle am : thank you , suzy . dawn . dawn bowden am : my comments , really , relate to ongoing awareness-raising campaigns , which i think all of us would want to see , and would appreciate in any changes in legislation . my point , really , is that we have a plethora of legislation that this assembly has passed in the last 20 years , and i 'm not aware of any legislation where , on the face of the bill we have ongoing awareness-raising campaigns on an indefinite basis . it seems to me that , for some reason , you seem to be wanting to take a completely different approach to this piece of legislation . from what the deputy minister is saying—and perhaps i will get some clarity on this—there will be an amendment to the legislation that will say that we have an awareness campaign . that awareness campaign can be the subject of consultation with interested parties in terms of what needs to be included in it . it could also , i assume , deputy minister , be an awareness campaign that can be written into a set of guidance for future use . but the point i 'm trying to make is that i do n't believe that any piece of legislation requires ongoing and indefinite awareness-raising campaigns , and particularly in relation to visitors to wales . again , we have other pieces of legislation in wales that are not applicable in the other parts of the uk . i am not aware that there is a necessity for awareness-raising campaigns with visitors coming into wales on the raft of the other pieces of legislation that we have that they do n't . and similarly , when we go to visit countries that have different legislation , we do n't necessarily know what legislation we 're going into when we visit that country—you just go there and you accept that you go to a different country and you abide by their laws . so , my key point , chair , is just the necessity of an ongoing , endless awareness campaign being written onto the face of the bill . lynne neagle am : thank you , dawn . hefin . hefin david am : my comments follow logically from dawn bowden 's comments , particularly in relation to amendments 1d and 1e . what you would be doing is that this senedd , if this was on the face of the bill , the duty on ministers , would be putting the duty on ministers in law beyond the life of the fifth senedd , into the next senedd term , and putting that duty on those newly elected ministers after that , which , in principle , would be against the principles of binding— lynne neagle am : hefin , are you taking an intervention from suzy ? hefin david am : yes , happy to . suzy davies am : when you 've finished your point . hefin david am : i 'm happy to take it now , because i was going to sum up by agreeing with the point you made , actually . suzy davies am : i 'd love that . you referred to this potentially binding ministers in future assemblies ; at the moment , we 've got an implementation period and a five-year reporting period that takes any reporting on this act into the assembly after next . i 'm wondering if you 're going to have any comments on that when we come to the amendment to change that later on . hefin david am : well , when we get to that amendment , i 'll make comments if i feel it necessary . but at this point in time , we 're talking about amendments 1d and 1e , and particularly in relation to 1d and 1e it just is n't necessary , given the fact that—i wo n't call it a concession , because i think you made a reasonable point about the minister making a statement at stage 3 , and i think dawn bowden actually supported that as well . that , therefore , makes those amendments unnecessary . given that , in these circumstances , it is unnecessary to bind ministers in future parliaments . and that 's my key point , really , which is why i would n't vote for those two amendments . lynne neagle am : thank you . siân . sian gwenllian am : thank you very much . i just want to speak against amendment 1a and also amendment 1b . i do n't believe that there is a need for an indefinite campaign , as is outlined in 1a . i agree entirely that there is a need for a campaign during the period of change , and therefore i 'm very glad to see that the government has brought forward amendment 1 , and i do hope that there will be a real push during the period of change . in terms of amendment 1b , i do have sympathy with what is being said here , but i believe that any kind of information or campaign in terms of enabling parents to learn about alternatives to physical punishment should be the subject of continual far-reaching work by the government , through various programmes , and it should not be an addition on the face of this bill , which deals with a small change to the common law . and then , on 1d also , if i may—i do n't agree with this either . again , i believe that there is a need to promote awareness amongst children , but that should happen through the children 's rights convention , as part of a broader programme to promote children 's rights . lynne neagle am : thank you , siân . i call on the deputy minister to speak , then . julie morgan am : thank you all very much for your contributions to the debate and your comments on these amendments today . i just want to re-emphasise that it is as a result of the recommendation from this committee that we are putting this duty to have the awareness campaign on the face of the bill , and i absolutely recognise the crucial role awareness raising has to play in supporting the implementation of the bill . i 'm very grateful for and appreciate the committee 's interest and the work that you 've done in this area of work . but i do think that these amendments are unnecessary . if we go through them , amendment 1a is really open-ended on promoting public awareness . we 're committed to a high-intensity awareness over six years from royal assent , and there is an expert stakeholder group supporting us with the development of the awareness campaign . all the points that you 've been making will be being considered by that group . i think the level of detail on the face of the bill is not needed . suzy davies am : okay . would you just take an intervention on that just to help me understand ? a two-year awareness-raising campaign—how have you concluded that— julie morgan am : six-year . suzy davies am : i thought it was two years before section 1 comes into force . julie morgan am : we 've got six years from royal assent . suzy davies am : oh , so it is going to continue beyond section 1 coming into force— julie morgan am : yes . oh yes , it 's going to continue . suzy davies am : that 's very helpful . julie morgan am : definitely , yes . so , i do n't think that 's needed , amendment 1a . amendment 1b , about support available to parents and how to access it—again , this level of detail is not required on the face of the bill . i just want to emphasise we have got this expert implementation group , who are working on all aspects of this bill , many of whom represent organisations who gave evidence to this committee . the bill is a simple one , with a clear purpose . it aims to remove the defence of reasonable punishment . i think lots of these amendments are very helpful and interesting , but would be discussed and would be acted on in the normal pathway of planning and development , and they 're not required on the face of the bill . so , i 'm not putting them down , i 'm just saying that we do n't need them to be there on the face of the bill . and then amendment 1c—the information about how to raise concerns—i do repeat that safeguarding is everybody 's business , and the same issues apply now as will after this defence has been removed . amendment 1d—ministers to have regard to the need to promote awareness among children—now , children 's rights are absolutely enshrined in our policy making , and the entire bill is about protecting the rights of children . so , it is unnecessary duplication . so , we hope that the bill will remain focused . again , in terms of visitors , the level of detail is simply not required on the face of the bill . our awareness-raising campaign will be comprehensive . and then to pick up a few of the other points that were raised , revisions to the impact assessments are being considered as part of my commitment to update the explanatory memorandum ahead of stage 3 . so , there will be more details on the regulatory impact assessment . the issue that was raised about the scottish bill , that it refers to 'understanding'—now , the scottish bill was not a government bill , it was a private member 's bill , and our view is that nothing is added by adding the 'understanding ' ; 'awareness ' is sufficient . so , basically , i think that the points made have been very useful , but i urge committee members to accept my amendments , but to reject those proposed by janet finch-saunders , as they are unnecessary provisions in terms of what the awareness-raising duty needs to achieve . lynne neagle am : thank you , deputy minister . before disposing of amendment 1 , we will deal with the amendments to that amendment . janet , do you wish to move amendment 1a ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : thank you . the question is that amendment 1a be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we have an objection . i therefore take a vote by show of hands . the question is that amendment 1a be agreed . all those in favour , please raise your hands . all those against . there voted two in favour , four against . so , amendment 1a is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 1b ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 1b be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , i 'll take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 1b . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 1b is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 1c ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : thank you . the question is that amendment 1c be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay . all those in favour of amendment 1c , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 1c is not agreed . janet , do you want to move amendment 1d ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : thank you . the question is that amendment 1d be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , as there 's an objection , i 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 1d , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 1d is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 1e ? okay . the question is that amendment 1e be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 1e , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 1e is not agreed . if amendment 1 is not agreed , amendment 2c and amendment 4 will fall . deputy minister , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 1 ? thank you . okay . i move amendment 1 in the name of the deputy minister . the question is that amendment 1 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we have an objection , so we 'll take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 1 . all those against . so , there voted four in favour , two against , and amendment 1 is agreed . we 'll move on now then to group 2 , which relates to the duty to report on the effect of the legislation . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 2 , in the name of the deputy minister . i move amendment 2 in the deputy minister 's name , and call on the deputy minister to speak to her amendments , and the other amendments in this group . julie morgan am : thank you , chair . the amendments in this group are to do with the post-implementation review of the bill , and i believe there was also a committee recommendation to this end from your committee , so you strongly influenced this amendment . it 's clear from members ' contributions to this group and recommendations by the committee at stage 1 that they share my commitment to the importance of post-implementation review of the effect of the abolition of the defence of reasonable punishment . i 've already provided assurance that i agree with the importance placed on such a review , both in the explanatory memorandum and during stage 1 scrutiny . i also made a commitment to bring forward a government amendment to put a duty to undertake a post-implementation review on the face of the bill . i have done this with amendment 2 . amendment 5 sets out that this provision will come into force the day after royal assent . as i said in my responses to the stage 1 committee report , and as set out in the explanatory memorandum , the post-implementation review of this bill will not be a single piece of work , but a continuous programme of work during the years following the commencement of section 1 . firstly , we will continue to conduct attitudinal surveys , which will be used to track changes in attitude towards the physical punishment of children and prevalence of parents reporting that they use physical punishment . the surveys will also be used to monitor the effectiveness of our awareness-raising campaign . secondly , through a dedicated task and finish group , we are working with organisations to put in place arrangements to establish robust methods for capturing meaningful data relating to the bill and to consider the possible impact on services . turning to amendment 2c , this amendment would require welsh ministers to prepare and lay before the assembly a report on the effect of their promotion of public awareness before section 1 is commenced . this amendment is unnecessary and is in conflict with what i think is a priority for the implementation of this bill : that is , given certainty on the commencement date and in enabling us to work towards this with our partners and stakeholders . i also think this amendment is not required because , as i 've already stated , we are preparing to assess the effectiveness of our awareness raising . in june , i shared the findings of a representative survey , which establishes a baseline on public awareness and opinion towards physical punishment of children and the proposed legislation . i shared this with the committee . lynne neagle am : thank you , deputy minister . i open it up for discussion now , then . janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . i speak to amendments 2c , excluding 2d , to 2k , which relate to the deputy minister 's amendment 2 on preparing a published report on the effect of abolishing the defence of reasonable punishment . again , i must stress the importance of getting this right due to the controversial and long-lasting effects of removing the defence of reasonable punishment . amendments 2e to 2k outline what we would expect to be within this report , and we would wish to see a commitment from the deputy minister to ensure the national assembly for wales is fully apprised and able to scrutinise the result of this report . amendment 2c requests that the welsh government prepare a report on the awareness-raising campaign and lays it before the assembly before section 1 commences . as i have outlined under my amendments in group 1 , the understanding of the public about the implications of the bill can not be sidelined . although the deputy minister has repeated her commitment to a public awareness campaign , we , as the national assembly for wales , must be able to scrutinise its effectiveness before section 1 begins . as i noted under amendments 1b to 1e , there are specific groups of people who need to be evaluated on their understanding of the bill 's effect . i 'm sure that the deputy minister will agree that the harder-to-reach groups are undoubtedly the most vulnerable to any negative impacts that the bill will have because of the greater potential of a lack of awareness . it is , therefore , important for the assembly to be able to determine whether the awareness-raising campaign has had a positive effect on these groups of people . as will also be elaborated under amendment 2d , it is extremely important that we , as the parliament of wales , are fully apprised of the awareness-raising campaign 's impact . before we implement what will be a criminal offence , it is vital that we ensure that those affected are not adversely impacted because of a poorly targeted awareness campaign . therefore , i would be grateful if the deputy minister would commit to an independent evaluation of the awareness campaign 's effects before section 1 commences . lynne neagle am : thank you , janet . suzy davies . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . deputy minister , first of all , can i just say thank you for your opening remarks about the possibility of perhaps doing some work around amendment 2b ? i 'll come to that a little bit later , if i may . i just want to begin by commenting briefly on what you said about why you 'll be rejecting amendment 2c here . i actually do n't think that this amendment should affect or jeopardise the commencement date in any way at all . it 's an operational requirement to get this work done before the commencement date that 's in the draft bill at the moment . so , failing to meet that would be as a result of operations not going well , rather than anything intrinsic in the bill , so i 'm not sure i can accept your argument on that . and , on 2d—very pleased to hear that you 'd be willing to introduce something about 'laying ' rather than 'publishing ' at stage 3 , but , in the spirit of recognising that this is the legislature , perhaps i could encourage you just to accept the amendment at this stage , because it does n't make any difference . your amendment is going to pass , and this amendment to it would be—i think the gesture there would be very much appreciated . i 'll be speaking mainly to amendments 2a and 2b , but i want to begin , again , by thanking you for moving some way on this and considering amendments to the bill on the issue of reporting , because i know you were keen to avoid amendments in the name of simplicity ; you mentioned it earlier . but this is not a newid bychan , i 'm afraid , siân ; the terms and the effect of this bill are quite extensive , and it does need the reassurances , if you like , necessary to mitigate potentially disproportionate effects of this bill on families where parents ' actions had been lawful up until this point in statute . it does need statutory underpinning . so , i am grateful to you for accepting this duty . i know that you 're sincere that you want this duty to report to show that the bill is effective in stopping smacking as a punishment , and also that it is not as harmful to parents as perhaps some of us fear . but , if this were me bringing forward this bill , i think i 'd want to show the world that i was doing the right thing a lot sooner than you appear to wish to do . amendment 2 means that the efficacy of the bill will not formally be assessed until seven years after it has passed . there are acts on the statute book that have lasted a lot less time than that . if you 're relying on the two-year period before section 1 comes into operation to do much of the heavy lifting on the culture change , and i think that is what you 're expecting—you know , showing a reduction in the incidence of physical punishment , reducing the number of , and indeed the likelihood of , parents putting themselves in the path of criminal liability once those two years are up—i really would have thought you 'd want people to know sooner , or as soon as the first possible opportunity on that . waiting five years , i think , will diminish the ability of you to prove the efficacy of those initial two years , and this is why i 'm grateful to you for your offer , because there may be a way where we can overcome that . if the trend of culture change is continuing after year 3—so , basically , in the first year after section 1 comes into effect—that 's great , but there 's a possibility it 's going to reverse . again , i do n't think i 'd want to wait five years to find that out . for myself , i think one year would probably be enough , but i think three years is a reasonable compromise , as opposed to five years , for a reporting period . i think seven years is just way too long for a formal evaluation of a bill 's effectiveness . i ca n't see the reason for quite that length of time—i know you 've talked about new zealand—but neither can the constitutional and legislative affairs committee . i think that 's worth pointing out . when they took the step of recommending this duty to evaluate and report , they also took the step of suggesting a three-year reporting period being more in keeping with other post-legislative scrutiny . that 's something i think we perhaps need to bear in mind now , as we enter this period of the consolidation of law . five/seven years is really something of an outlier , and while that might have been appropriate , perhaps , in new zealand , i do n't think that fits in with our timetables generally here in wales , and , of course , there are other countries that have introduced this over a period of years , and i note that you have n't drawn on them in order to support your argument . so , can i urge members and the minister to consider the arguments behind these amendments ? i do n't think it 's going to reassure anyone—you may want to intervene at this point , hefin—that we not only wo n't hear in this assembly , we wo n't hear in the next assembly , about the formal evaluation of this , unless i follow— hefin david am : i wo n't intervene ; i 'll speak . suzy davies am : is that okay ? hefin david am : yes , i 'll make the point . lynne neagle am : okay , i 've got— suzy davies am : yes , i 'll take the intervention . lynne neagle am : no , he does n't want to make an intervention— hefin david am : i wo n't do an intervention ; i 'll speak . lynne neagle am : —he 'll make a contribution . suzy davies am : oh , apologies— hefin david am : just to say— suzy davies am : i 'll wait . hefin david am : well , let me put the intervention— . i 'll do it as an intervention , then . i just feel that—i take your point , and i was expecting it . the point i was making about 1d and 1e is they close down choices to ministers in future assemblies . an evaluative practice would actually open up those choices and give future parliaments more options with regard to this bill , so i think it 's entirely consistent . i do n't think the minister , in putting in amendment 2 , was trying to undermine my argument . actually , i think she 's being constructive by doing that , and i think amendment 2 is a practical amendment that 's quite helpful , and its consequence will be to open up choices to future parliaments , whereas my objection to 1d and 1e is they close those down . suzy davies am : okay , well , as i say , i think , actually , the deputy minister 's offer of a three-year interim period might be part of a resolution to this . because i 'm not 100 per cent sure i accept your argument , either , because it closes it down for the interim period if we do n't move on with the deputy minister 's suggestion—which i 'll talk about now , actually . because i am tempted to accept your offer . it absolutely makes sense and it 's clearly made with the best good faith here . but i need some clarity on what you would allow this assembly to do in helping define the terms of that interim report . because you 've been very clear that you do n't want to accept the things that janet finch-saunders has been talking about in a final report , and yet i can tell you we want to hear about these things . so , if you 're in a position where you can give a commitment at stage 3 not only to introduce an interim report , but that you will consult with , perhaps , this committee—i 'll leave it to you—on the contents of that interim report , what we would want to see tested , then i 'll be minded not to move amendment 2b . if you ca n't give me that reassurance , then i 'm going to move it anyway and we 'll return to it at stage 3 , if you do n't mind . just a final point on this issue of reporting within three months rather than as soon as practicable , and i do take your point that there may be a misalignment with reporting periods from the organisations you hope to talk to . again , at stage 3 , i 'm happy if you want to make three months six months , or something like that , but 'as soon as practicable ' is open ended , and what you think is practicable may be very different from what i or my constituents think is practicable . so , i do n't want to stick with what is practicable ; i would like you to put a date on this . if it 's a case that you think six months is long enough for data gathering and reporting from third parties , i think that 's fairly reasonable as well , but i 'm not minded to allow you to just keep this open ended . thank you . lynne neagle am : thank you , suzy . siân . sian gwenllian am : yes , i welcome adding to the bill through amendment 2 , and what you 've said today also , that you 're willing to provide an interim report and bring an amendment forward to allow that through the bill , and to lay a report before the assembly . i am interested in what suzy is saying , and have a lot of sympathy with trying to tie it down to specific time periods , and not say 'when it will be practicable ' . therefore , i would encourage you not to move your amendments if you have the confirmation that you want to hear this morning from the minister regarding these issues . suzy davies am : i would like to . thanks . lynne neagle am : thank you . any other members ? no . deputy minister . julie morgan am : well , just to start off on that point , i think your suggestion about how we consult and discuss , i think i 'm very happy to accept that . so , i 'm happy to discuss that with you , and with the committee , before the third stage . so , i hope you will consider removing— . suzy davies am : no , genuinely i am . julie morgan am : right , thank you . well , just to go on to cover some of the points that have been raised , on the issue of training now , i think janet raised a number of points about training , and we do have an operations , procedures , processes and training task and finish group as part of our implementation work , and they are considering guidance and training requirements . there are many professional bodies represented on that group , many of whom i think have given evidence here today , and they 've really got a chance to have their say . the officials are also looking at training as part of the revision of the explanatory memorandum at stage 3 , so there will be more information about training there . but we have this group looking at it , and it is very key . generally , i think that all the contributions are very helpful , and i know they 're meant in the spirit of trying to improve the legislation . i ca n't support amendments 2a , 2c , and amendments 2e to 2k , because these amendments make little difference in terms of practical effect to what we have in the bill already , or they 're covered by the government amendments that i 've moved . but i do hope the committee is reassured that we are committed to undertaking a very thorough , multifaceted review of the impact of the legislation that includes tracking public attitudes and considering impacts on public services . now , tracking the public attitudes will be going along at regular points , so there 's no question there of having to wait ; we 'll be having regular reporting of public attitudes . suzy davies am : would you take an intervention there , deputy minister ? thank you very much . of course , i appreciate that you will not be supporting these amendments , but can you give us some indication of how many of the areas of interest to us you will be reporting on ? so , even if this is not a statutory commitment , what exactly from our list , our wish list here , would you be prepared to include in your evaluation ? julie morgan am : well , i would actually have thought all of them . all the areas you 've raised are very relevant , i think . obviously , this is not a statutory thing i 'm saying , but— suzy davies am : no , no , and this is not a— julie morgan am : yes , but considering those points you 've put forward , i think all of them have got a great deal of relevance . we will certainly be reporting to the group to consider any of the ideas that you 've suggested and , in particular with the data collection and the monitoring task and finish group , which is about developing methods to collect data , we will be putting forward some of the suggestions that you 've made on those issues . so , i do n't see any problem with that at all . suzy davies am : thank you . julie morgan am : so , as i say , i ca n't support the amendments . i 'm hopeful you may withdraw the two amendments—i think one of yours and it was one of janet 's , was n't it—so that we could work together on those before the next stage . because i am sympathetic to your views on these matters , and i think they do reflect some of the discussions in the committee as well . so , i 'd be happy to work with you to bring forward the amendments at stage 3 . in line with the recommendations of the finance committee , further details of the costs associated with the post-implementation review will be provided in a revised regulatory impact assessment at stage 3 . so , i think at this point i would ask that members reject the non-government amendments and agree to my amendments 2 and 5 , which will ultimately achieve the same policy aim without the need for unnecessary detail on the bill , with the exception , obviously , of those two amendments , which i 'm prepared to look at a way of moving forward on . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you , deputy minister . before disposing of amendment 2 , we will deal with the amendments to that amendment . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2c ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2c be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 2c , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2c is lost . suzy , do you wish to move amendment 2a ? suzy davies am : i move amendment 2a , yes . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2a be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 2a , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2a is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2d ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : janet , do you wish to move amendment 2e ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2e be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 2e , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2e is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2f ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2f be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so can i see all those in favour of amendment 2f ? all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 2f is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2g ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2g be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , can i see all those in favour of amendment 2g ? all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 2g is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2h ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2h be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so can i see all those in favour of amendment 2h ? all those against ? so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2h is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2i ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2i be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay . can i see all those in favour of amendment 2i ? all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2i is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2j ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2j be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote . can i see all those in favour of 2j ? all those against ? so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2j is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2k ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2k be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] i 'll therefore take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 2k ? all those against ? so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2k is not agreed . suzy , do you wish to move amendment 2b ? suzy davies am : in view of the deputy minister 's reassurances , i wo n't move this amendment today , but obviously i reserve the right to bring something back if we ca n't reach consensus . thank you . lynne neagle am : does any other member wish to move amendment 2b ? okay , no . thank you . we 'll move on , then . if amendment 2 is not agreed , amendment 5 will fall . deputy minister , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 2 ? thank you . the question is that amendment 2 be agreed . does any member object ? amendment 2— suzy davies am : objection . lynne neagle am : you 're objecting ? okay . right , we 'll therefore take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 2 , please show . all those against . so , there voted four in favour , two against , and amendment 2 is agreed . that takes us on to group 3 , which relates to the regulation-making powers in the bill . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 3 in the name of the deputy minister . i move amendment 3 in the deputy minister 's name and call on the deputy minister to speak to her amendments and the other amendments in this group . julie morgan am : thank you very much , chair . members will note that i 've brought forward an amendment to provide certainty on the date of commencement of the core provision in the bill , which is obviously to abolish the defence of reasonable punishment . and that is going to be debated under group 5 . so , we 're obviously debating that after we deal with these particular technical issues—these are technical issues here , basically . as a consequence of proposing to remove the power for a welsh minister to make an order for commencement , the power to make transitory , transitional or saving provisions in connection with section 1 of the bill coming into force would also be removed . so , i 'm not seeking here to add any new powers to the bill ; amendment 3 will simply add this existing power back onto the face of the bill where amendments 7 and 8 remove it , and amendment 6 will bring the power into force the day after royal assent . in fact , removing the power for the welsh ministers to commence the provision in section 1 by order means the statutory instrument will actually do less than originally intended . these amendments are technical in nature and while i acknowledge that the constitutional and legislative affairs committee raised the issue of what procedure should be applied , their report did not call for any change to no procedure being applied . the absence of an assembly procedure does not mean that ministers ' decisions in relation to transitional powers can not be scrutinised by the assembly . any concerns about the welsh ministers ' proposals could be put to me in the senedd . this was a point made to clac and , as i say , their final conclusion was that no procedure is the appropriate procedure for such a power . for those reasons , i encourage members to reject amendment 3a from suzy . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . suzy davies . suzy davies am : thank you very much . well perhaps , deputy minister , i can begin by saying that one person 's technical issue is another person 's essential part of the legislative procedure and a keen element in scrutiny . but i thank you for noting the assembly 's observations on the ministerial powers granted in this bill—this time by clac , as you say . moving this—and i 'm glad actually that amendment 8 , i think it was , has removed an order provision and we 're moving into an area where at least statutory instruments do feature here . i have to say that amendment 3a is something of a probing amendment , and i 'll explain why now . your amendment 3 seeks to give a familiar range of powers in connection with the coming into force of section 1 , but it 's actually in a substantive part of section 1 itself now—it 's not a separate commencement power . and , actually , i 've been listening to the rest of this debate , and thinking that , if you 're going to be introducing an awareness campaign and a report , the chances are you 're going to need some regulatory powers to introduce some of the aspects of both those policy areas , i think . and i 'm wondering whether the—what is it—transitory , transitional and saving provisions are actually enough powers for you under the course of this bill . i 'm wondering whether you want to consider actually amending this to give yourself the more usual unrestricted power to make regulations in order for you to get section 1 implemented , bearing in mind that it has now been amended from that original , very short and simple—or at least simple in terms of drafting—initial draft . as i say , in anticipation of you rejecting amendments in group 1 i tabled this , in order to make sure that an opportunity remains for the assembly to bring anything you may wish to introduce under section 1 , when it comes into effect , onto the floor of the assembly . because while i completely accept that you 've acknowledged that statutory instrument is the process for introducing things from now on , it 's still possible to do that without procedure , and so i have no idea whether you think what you introduce would be better suited to be introduced by a negative or affirmative procedure . amendment 3a is a holding position , which we will return to you in stage 3 , because i think , again , this is an area where it might be valuable for us to discuss quite what kind of powers you 're looking for , because i think you probably need something that 's beyond transitional , transitory and saving . lynne neagle am : okay . suzy , have you finished ? suzy davies am : yes , thank you very much . lynne neagle am : are there any other members who wish to speak on this group ? no . deputy minister . julie morgan am : i thank suzy for that input . we do n't actually think it 's necessary to have wider powers , but we will keep this under review and at stage 3 , i think that— . when i was looking at this , i was concerned to know what the transitory powers—what we would actually need to do at that stage , but i can understand that there may be links to other bills in ways that we are not anticipating at the moment that would make it necessary to have those powers . so , basically , i do n't think it is necessary to have wider powers , but i can assure you that we 'll keep that in review coming up to stage 3 . suzy davies am : can i just ask a question on the back of that ? lynne neagle am : will you take a brief intervention at the end , minister ? suzy davies am : will you take the briefest intervention before your full stop ? julie morgan am : i was going to end there , yes . suzy davies am : right , okay , well , just before your full stop , would you just confirm that you 're happy for us to discuss this before stage 3 ? julie morgan am : yes , very happy . yes . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . before disposing of amendment 3 , we will deal with the amendment to that amendment . suzy , do you wish to move amendment 3a ? suzy davies am : i 'll move it , yes . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 3a be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , i 'll take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 3a . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 3a is not agreed . if amendment 3 is not agreed , amendment 6 will fall . deputy minister , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 3 ? the question is that amendment 3 be agreed . does any member object ? amendment 3 is therefore agreed . the committee will now break for 10 minutes and reconvene at 11.05 a.m. can i welcome members back ? we will move on to group 4 , which relates to the duty to ensure sufficient funding . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 11 in the name of janet finch-saunders . i call on janet finch-saunders to move amendment 11 and to speak to her amendments . janet . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . i speak to both amendments in this group . as i outlined under amendments 2i and 2j , there are ongoing concerns about the potential costs for welsh devolved authorities and the lack of quantifiable costs within the regulatory impact assessment . now , it was absolutely clear from evidence that we received in this committee that unknown costs would be challenging and potentially problematic . as i have mentioned previously , these concerns would doubtless be most keenly felt in our hard-pressed social services . furthermore , the welsh local government association stated that there must be a commitment that whatever the costs are , those costs are met , because it is legislation that is being led by the national assembly for wales . now , during evidence , the deputy minister , when asked about the reliance on a limited number of reporting of cases likely to happen and the potential for a degree of unknown costs stated : 'we are doing our very best to prepare to cover all eventualities that we can anticipate . ' but you could n't commit to a broad figure , instead telling us that : 'we have to rely on what the people who run those organisations are telling us . ' and : 'we have to measure it as we go along . ' given that devolved authorities need to plan their budgets for these changes , we only think it is fair for the welsh government to provide sufficient funding to alleviate the cost implications of this bill . now , while amendment 11 makes reference to costs borne by local authorities and health boards , i note that amendment 12 takes this further by including other devolved authorities that are not funded by welsh government . anticipating the deputy minister 's response that few under this category , if any at all , would be affected by the bill , we are pursuing a principle here , and it is agreement to the principle of providing sufficient funding that we are seeking from you as the deputy minister . now , these are just two examples of welsh government legislation to date that have been underfunded . the active travel ( wales ) act 2013 : last year , the economy , infrastructure and skills committee found that the wales annual spend on walking and cycling is half that of england 's and one sixth of holland 's . furthermore , the committee highlighted that the passing of the act put a requirement on local authorities to continuously improve active travel routes , but were constrained by the funding made available to them . the minister at the time announced a three-year funding settlement of £60 million . now , my local authority and other authorities that have done some monitoring on the active travel act—they simply were not awarded sufficient funding to actually allow the active travel act to become a meaningful piece of legislation , and the same goes with the well-being of future generations ( wales ) act 2015 . this month , the auditor general has raised concerns that the public services boards created under the act were limited in their work and impact due to the lack of dedicated funding . outside of the welsh government 's regional grant that can not be spent on projects , councils often contribute through officer time or facilities , but resources and capacity to support those psbs remain a key risk , as partners do n't have the capacity to take on more . the reason that i wanted these amendments placed in here is i genuinely do not believe that you 've even envisioned what , or even estimated the likely cost to be borne by the organisations , and certainly our local authorities and health boards , the impact this bill is going to have . lynne neagle am : thank you , janet . are there other members who would like to speak in this group , please ? no . okay . i call the deputy minister , then . julie morgan am : thank you , chair . i can understand that the member is concerned about the impact of this bill on public services , but you will see from the explanatory memorandum and from the raft of impact statements published with the bill that we 've done a thorough and extremely diligent job of considering the potential impacts of this bill before introduction . and as far as we 're aware , no other country has done more than us to consider the impacts of similar legislation , and also comprehensively prepared for implementation . we 've explored the published data , which is available from other countries , on the impact of measures they 've taken to prohibit the physical punishment of children . we 've also spoken to a range of stakeholders in ireland , new zealand and malta , who have legal systems similar to our own . and in these countries , there is no evidence that public services have been overwhelmed following law reform . and stakeholders have been clear when giving evidence to this committee that they do not consider there will be runaway costs , and i think we should trust their judgment on this . in fact , as this committee notes in its stage 1 report , those delivering services on the front line have said , without exception , that 'this bill will improve their ability to protect children living in wales because it will make the law clear . ' sally jenkins of the association of directors of social services said to this committee : 'in terms of thresholds for children ’ s services , we would not be anticipating a huge number of referrals to us . there may be a small number of referrals that come through . what we know from other nations is that it will peak and then settle . we recognise that ’ s likely to happen . ' that 's from the front line . jane randall , chair of the national independent safeguarding board wales , said : 'there 's no expectation that there 's going to be a huge increase in the number of referrals coming through to local authority social services , i think it would be dealt with within their existing resources . ' and dr rowena christmas , royal college of general practitioners , said : ' i ca n't see it 's going to lengthen consultations . i ca n't see that it 's going to increase the number of consultations , and i do n't think it 's going to increase the number of referrals i make to the health visitor or to social services , because if i was worried , i 'd make those referrals now regardless of the bill . ' i just want to say again that the bill is removing a defence to an offence of common assault , which has formed part of the common law of england and wales for a very long time . and social services already receive and investigate reports of children being assaulted , including from health and education , so it 's not a whole new area of costly activity for any of them . i do think that the evidence that you had at your committee did highlight those points . as i 've already pointed out when discussing group 2 amendments , we 're working with organisations to put in place arrangements to collect data about the possible impact on their services , and this will be analysed as part of the post-implementation review of the legislation . welsh government can consider with relevant organisations how best to manage any impact on workloads or resources and any cost implications . i can assure you that work to update the regulatory impact assessment has continued , and i 've asked officials to prepare a revised ria , as recommended at stage 2 , and i expect to share an updated ria with you in advance of stage 3 . serious consideration is being given on how to provide more detailed estimates of the unknown costs to public services arising from the bill , but i think you should be reassured by the evidence that was given , particularly to this committee , from the professionals at the front line . what the amendments are proposing is outside the normal funding arrangements that operate within government , and it 's not clear why , in the context of the evidence heard at stage i , such provisions are necessary . i 'm sure that members will agree that future governments need to be able to consider , within the context of the budget-setting process , what the priorities are , and these considerations would need to be made within the context at that time , for example taking into account any issues that there are—uk government actions , what happens in relation to brexit , or any other unforeseen impacts on the economy or welsh society . all those issues would have to be taken into account . furthermore , as is the case now , the national assembly for wales scrutinises the welsh government budget annually , so it would be able to make an argument for additional funding for public bodies , should it consider that this is required . i do think all the evidence has shown that we do not anticipate that there will be a huge increase of a demand for funding , so i urge members to reject these amendments , which i believe are unnecessary . janet finch-saunders am : chair , could i ask a question ? lynne neagle am : you can reply to the debate now , janet , yes . janet finch-saunders am : i 'd like to ask a question of the deputy minister . when we were taking evidence , at an earlier stage , i noticed that part of the stakeholder group—there was some liaison going on with social services departments across wales . now , we have 22 local authorities . at that time , the numbers mentioned were quite small—i think only a handful . what discussions have taken place with our local authorities in terms of their social services departments in terms of the lead , the cabinet members , or , indeed , the head of service ? i can speak from my own experiences , when going around my constituency , but when i 've spoken to some of the family support groups , and , indeed , the departments themselves , they are very concerned about the financial impact that this is going to have on the provision . they 're already overstretched , and they see this as another burden—primarily another financial burden . so , how much have you engaged with them ? julie morgan am : there 's been extensive engagement . we 've had meetings with the association of directors of social services , and they 're represented on all our groups , and we 're working very closely with them , because , of course , they represent all the local authorities . but i have to say , when i 've been going round and meeting lots of different groups , the first thing they say is , ' i 'm so glad that you 're doing this ' , and they have n't mentioned any financial implications . but , obviously , we will be very aware of—we are looking at any more evidence that comes up . janet finch-saunders am : okay . so , i 'll still move my amendments . i 'm disappointed , really . i was hoping to see some commitment to—this bill was going to go through , and it 's one that could be implemented fully , because sufficient resources were there . i 'm not convinced about that , and i know that other organisations are not also . so , i move my amendments . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 11 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] i therefore take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 11 is not agreed . janet , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 12 ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 12 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] all those in favour of amendment 12 . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 12 is not agreed . deputy minister , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 4 ? okay . i move amendment 4 in the name of the deputy minister . the question is that amendment 4 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 4 , please show . all those against . so , there voted four in favour , two against , and amendment 4 is agreed . deputy minister , do you want to proceed to a vote on amendment 5 ? i move amendment 5 in the name of the deputy minister . the question is that amendment 5 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 5 , please show . all those against . so , there voted four in favour , two against , and amendment 5 is agreed . deputy minister , do you want to move to a vote on amendment 6 ? i move amendment 6 , then , in the name of the deputy minister . the question is that amendment 6 be agreed . does any member object ? amendment 6 is therefore agreed . this takes us , then , to the fifth and final group , which relates to commencement . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 9 in the name of suzy davies . and i call suzy davies to move amendment 9 and to speak to the amendment and the other amendments in the group . suzy davies am : thank you very much , chair . amendment 9 is actually consequential on amendment 10 passing , but it 's the lead amendment in the group , so i 'll move it to begin the debate . minister , i 'm speaking here now to amendments 10 and 15 specifically . you 've said repeatedly , and i believe you , that you do not wish to criminalise parents but just to stop them physically punishing their children . you could have chosen to try and achieve this through awareness raising and civil enforcement , but by choosing to remove the defence to a criminal act you have entered the arena of criminal law , where the logical consequence is opening parents up to liability—not necessarily getting prosecuted , but liability to prosecution , not just liability to civil sanctions . i 'm sure you 'd prefer parents not to be prosecuted , but that decision does not and can not lie with you . you , like us , have no agency in this , because the powers and the duties of the police and the crown prosecution service sit outside our competence . you can not and we can not , by law or otherwise , instruct either of them in the delivery of your policy intention of not criminalising parents . you 've acknowledged to this committee and the constitutional and legislative affairs committee that revised cps charging guidance and any other guidance on , for example , out-of-court disposals , are key to delivering your policy objectives . you 'll remember how concerned this committee was when we learned that your advisory group—the strategic implementation group , is it—was only in the early stages of discussing what these guidelines might look like . so , you 're actually asking us to pass law when we have no control over how parents might be punished for smacking their children—no control of the regard given to the relevance of force , the frequency of the offence , any prior conviction , any prior reporting , not even the views of the child in how they might be sentenced , or thresholds that would be appropriate for cautions and other out-of-court disposals ; no guidance to the police on thresholds for arrest , let alone charging . and you argue that the rights of the child are what matter , and i agree with you here , but everybody , adult or child , has a right to natural justice and proportionate remedy or censure , and you are in no position to offer us any comfort on these matters at this stage . now , clac recommended that any revised guidance be made available to ams before stage 3 . i anticipate that that 's unlikely , and i hope i 'm wrong , but that 's why janet and i have tabled amendments 10 and 15 , which prevent you bringing section 1 into force until that cps guidance has been fully updated to take into account the change in the law and until pathways away from prosecution have been devised and agreed . that reflects our recommendation 4 , this committee 's recommendation , as well as clac 's recommendation 1 . it gives your strategic implementation board time to consider how it can get around the other fundamentally worrying issue of the effect of recording reports of apparent physical punishment , even if those reports ultimately prove unfounded . and you have not addressed these in your own amendments . i have to say , minister , i think these points are so serious that i would have liked to have tabled amendments preventing you seeking royal assent for this bill until the assembly has seen drafts of the range of official guidance needed for the police and cps . i 'd have sought a report stage , if i could , so that we could consider that evidence . but i 'm therefore asking you to support the amendments we have tabled , 10 and 15 , so that we can bring some damage limitation to a process that you ultimately can not control once this bill has passed . now , i know you 've got the numbers to pass this bill , whether you accept amendments or not , but i just hope you can see the danger in pushing forward with a bill that changes a person 's relationship with the criminal law when you have no legal control over the consequences of that , and you 're inviting this assembly to fall into the same trap . i therefore urge the assembly to avoid this recklessness by supporting these two amendments . lynne neagle am : thank you , suzy . are there other members who wish to speak ? no . janet , do you want to speak ? janet finch-saunders am : yes , i wish to speak to amendments 14 and 16 . amendment 14 , however , is consequential to amendment 16 passing . amendment 16 prevents this from commencing until parenting support services have been established by the welsh government . as was clear during the committee 's evidence sessions , present welsh government support programmes for parents have insufficient coverage . for example , the capacity and reach of the healthy child wales programme came under question on its role in awareness raising , with health representatives acknowledging that universality had not been achieved , with 53.2 per cent of children in wales reported as being contacted . furthermore , existing parenting support is often only available as part of a targeted programme in specific areas , such as flying start , and even the children 's commissioner noted that much more is needed to support parents to find alternatives to disciplining their children . now , the deputy minister mentioned the 'parenting : give it time ' campaign as part of proposals on a wider package of support for children and their parents . however , the deputy minister was challenged on this fact , that this is an online campaign only , and could only respond that the mapping exercise she will undertake . consequently , it should be remembered that this bill will affect all parents . therefore , the deputy minister needs to assure the committee and the public that universal support will be provided before the removal of the defence occurs . lynne neagle am : thank you , janet . deputy minister . julie morgan am : thank you , chair . i 've listened to what stakeholders and committees have said about the importance of ensuring sufficient time is available prior to the change in the law to abolish the defence of reasonable punishment during stage 1 . as a result , i have brought forward amendments in this group to provide certainty around the date for the change in the law . my amendment 7 will remove the power to commence this core provision of the bill by order of the welsh ministers and ensure that the defence of reasonable punishment is abolished at the end of a two-year period beginning the day after royal assent . that was done to give certainty on the length of time . up to then , we 'd always said 'up to two years'—well , we 're giving two years . this certainty will allow key partners , including the police , social services and the crown prosecution service , to plan for changes to guidance , training and data-collection systems more effectively . it 'll also provide a focus for our awareness-raising campaign . my amendment 8 in this group has the consequence of removing the power to make transitional provision , which is replaced by my amendments 3 and 6 , and we discussed those in the previous group . i 've listened to the arguments put forward by suzy davies and janet finch-saunders for the amendments in this group that they have tabled . these amendments are all about making the commencement of the bill conditional on something else happening , whether it 's waiting for the revision of crown prosecution service guidance , or the establishment of a pathway for diversion from the criminal justice system , or for the provision of parenting support services . and , really , i do n't think that we should be going down that road . as i set out in my letter of response to the stage 1 report from the constitutional and legislative affairs committee , we 've got good working relations with the cps through the strategic implementation group , and we work very closely with them . but the cps are an independent body , as suzy davies has said in her contribution , not answerable to welsh ministers or this legislature , and it 's not appropriate for a minister or the national assembly to seek to influence the cps guidelines . we 're discussing the issues with the cps in the implementation group . and , in fact , i think that these amendments—suzy 's amendments in particular—would n't just seek to influence the cps , but would actually give power to a non-devolved body on the way that we legislate in wales . so , i do n't think we should make it conditional on those guidelines being decided . i think you have to rely on the fact that we have got this very good relationship , very close working relationship . and i know they did give evidence to your committee , i believe , the cps . and i think legislating to effectively give a non-devolved body a power to commence , or not , assembly legislation would be highly unusual and would raise great uncertainty , i think , if we did go down that track , because i think this is very important welsh legislation , which does have broad support across the assembly . and i do n't think we should allow non-devolved bodies to be the final arbiters of commencement of our legislation . so , i do n't support those amendments . i think the cps is entirely independent of government , and must be entirely independent of government , and will make its own decisions about how and when it will revise its guidance . in addition , you suggest we allow the uk government to have a say in when welsh legislation is commenced in an area that was specifically devolved to the assembly . the test applied by the proposed amendments as to when commencement could lawfully occur is uncertain . if these amendments passed , it would be very difficult , if not impossible , to judge when section 1 could be commenced . this contravenes what stakeholders and committees have asked for , and raises huge uncertainty , which potentially jeopardises the bill . and i want to assure you again , not only do we have good working relations with the cps , but also very good working relationships with the police , who are , of course , the other non-devolved body who have great involvement and interest in these issues . the work we do in these groups should not affect the timing of the bill 's commencement . in fact , it 's the other way round . my amendment to provide a two-year period between royal assent and commencement means these groups can plan their work to a known timescale and deliver in good time before the law comes into force . and then , when it comes to parenting support , the committee knows that i 've committed to reviewing the existing provision of parenting support , and work is already under way through the parenting expert group on this very issue . i have already said i will expand the age range of the 'parenting : give it time ' campaign , and i think— . i know janet finch-saunders has made the point that it is an online facility . it is very widely used . it is a very successful tool . but , of course , the universal services are also there . for example , the universal service of the health visitors is absolutely crucial , and that is a service that is for every child . and , of course , the health visitors welcome this legislation very strongly . and the expert group is considering what it 'll recommend for the future , and it needs the time to be able to do that , to support the bill as well as to support parenting more widely . so , as i said , i think these are important points that you have raised , but i do n't think they are appropriate . so , i therefore urge the committee not to support amendments 9 and 10 , nor 13 , 14 and 15 . lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy to reply to the debate . suzy davies am : thank you very much , and thank you very much , deputy minister , as well . i 'm disappointed that you have n't seen what 's behind janet finch-saunders 's final amendment there , actually . maybe it 's something we 'll raise again with you at stage 3 , or maybe in the conversations that we have between now and then . but i want to go back to amendments 10 and 15 that i 've raised and your assertion that we 're giving , or attempting to give , power to the cps here . we are not . this amendment is drafted very specifically and in full knowledge that we have no legislative competence in this area . and this is why i go back to where my contribution to this started , and it 's your choice to try and resolve the problem of—or , sorry , to try and protect children 's rights through the medium of a change to the criminal law rather than the many opportunities that were available to you through the civil law and over which you would have had complete competence . this bill—and , actually , you 've said a couple of times in your response today that it 's important that it 's commenced on a certain date . my argument is : it should n't be commenced at all unless you are absolutely certain about how it is likely to affect the parents who will now be captured by the removal of the defence . and , while i claim no mischief on the part of the cps or the police—obviously i don't—there is nothing you can do that would prevent the cps , should they wish to do it , or indeed the police with their own guidelines , putting in place something that is wholly disproportionate to the offence that is now being released by the removal of a defence . and , because of that , i ask you to consider , or balance , actually , two important things here : one is the rights of the child , obviously at the forefront of your argument on this , which i would argue could be completely and safely protected through the use of civil law on this occasion ; and , actually , the rights of the child again to have a good relationship with parents over whose future they will have no say—or at least you can not allow them to have any say in how those parents might be treated in terms of sentencing . the relationship between parents and children obviously is different in every family , but that 's something you ought to protect in what you 're trying to do here , and by leaving it open , as you say , to completely different—sorry , undevolved , two undevolved authorities to make decisions about how that relationship could be affected deeply worries me . i know this is n't going to stop your bill going forward , but i really want you to consider my arguments and how you might try and address them at stage 3 , because leaving , effectively , the delivery of your policy objectives to somebody over whom you have no control , despite your great relationship with them , should worry us all as a legislature . thank you . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you , suzy . do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 9 ? suzy davies am : oh , because of the voting order— . yes , please . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 9 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 9 , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 9 is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 13 ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 13 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 13 , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 13 is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 14 ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 14 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 14 , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 14 is not agreed . deputy minister , do you wish to move to a vote on amendment 7 ? i move amendment 7 in the name of the deputy minister . the question is that amendment 7 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 7 , please show . all those against . so , there voted four in favour , two against . amendment 7 is agreed . suzy , do you wish to move amendment 10 ? suzy davies am : yes , please . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 10 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 10 , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 10 is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 15 ? the question is that amendment 15 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 15 , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 15 is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 16 ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 16 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 16 , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 16 is not agreed . deputy minister , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 8 ? i move amendment 8 , then , in the name of the minister . the question is that amendment 8 be agreed . does any member object ? amendment 8 is therefore agreed . well , that has brought us to the end of our amendments , so can i thank the deputy minister and her officials for their attendance ? as usual , you will be sent a transcript of the meeting to check for factual accuracy . this completes stage 2 proceedings . stage 3 begins tomorrow , and the relevant date of stage 3 proceedings will be published in due course . standing orders make provision for the deputy minister to prepare a revised explanatory memorandum , taking account of the amendments agreed today . the revised memorandum will be laid at least five working days before stage 3 proceedings . thank you very much . julie morgan am : thank you all very much . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about amendments in group 1 that related to the duty to promote public awareness ? </s> julie morgan am : thank you very much , chair . my amendments 1 and 4 will place a duty on welsh ministers to provide information and increase awareness about the change in the law to ensure that the public are made aware of how the law will change as a result of the defence of reasonable punishment being abolished and that physical punishment would be prohibited once the act commences . i tabled these amendments in response to this committee 's recommendation—this was a recommendation from this committee in the stage 1 report , so i have responded to that . i 've already made a commitment to a high-intensity awareness-raising campaign over approximately six years from royal assent , should the bill be passed . i 've considered amendments 1a to 1e , which have been tabled by janet finch-saunders , and which relate to the duty to raise awareness . amendment 1a introduces a reference to public understanding . we do n't think , actually , that this adds anything to the government amendment , which already mentions awareness . it makes the awareness-raising duty open-ended with no time limit , which is not necessary . by commencement , messaging around the change in the law will be embedded . the awareness-raising campaign will continue for a number of years . therefore , an ongoing duty referring specifically to the law change would not be required . i understand , of course , that the awareness-raising campaign needs to be comprehensive , well planned and to reach out to all those people and all those communities who need to be aware of the law change , and understand how to respond to it . but i do n't think it 's helpful or necessary to highlight specific groups , such as visitors to wales , on the face of the bill—that 's the approach taken in amendment 1e—as it risks placing too much emphasis on certain groups at the expense of others . in relation to children , the committee will know that i 'm fully committed to children ’ s rights , and that welsh ministers are already under a duty to have due regard to the rights of children whenever they exercise their functions . an additional due regard requirement , such as the one set out in amendment 1d , relating specifically to the need to promote awareness among children is not needed . this would be part and parcel of the welsh government approach to putting children ’ s rights at the heart of our policy making . similarly , i do n't think it 's necessary for the bill to set out specifically the topics that need to be covered in the awareness-raising campaign , as is suggested in amendments 1b and 1c . that level of detail , i do n't think , is for the face of the bill . information required about parenting support will be considered by the parenting expert group , under the auspices of the bill ’ s strategic implementation group , working with my officials and the expert stakeholder group on the awareness-raising campaign . and , really , their thinking should not be constrained in any way by specifications on the face of the bill . i think we always need to bear in mind that what the bill does is remove a defence to an existing criminal offence ; it does not create a new offence . and in this context , it does n't make sense for this bill to contain a provision requiring the provision of information about how a person may raise concerns if it appears to them that a child is being physically punished . as i set out in my letter to this committee responding to recommendation 15 on this point , safeguarding is everyone ’ s business , and , as now , the public have a role in highlighting to relevant services if they are concerned about a child . i 'm asking for the support of members for amendments 1 and 4 , and i ask members to reject amendments 1a to 1e because this would place unnecessary provisions on the face of the bill . lynne neagle am : thank you , deputy minister . are there other members who wish to speak ? janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . i wish to speak to amendments 1a to 1e , which relate to the deputy minister 's amendment on the duty to promote public awareness . while we believe it is absolutely imperative that the public are made aware of this controversial change in the law , the deputy minister 's amendment lacks a number of key points that the committee were actually keen to address at stage 1 . an important thread runs throughout each and every amendment that i 've tabled within this group—that of a sustained awareness campaign , which not only stretches beyond the implementation of the bill , but serves as a duty for future administrations . amendment 1a : primarily , amendment 1a changes amendment 1 to include the promotion of understanding changes to the law . i do n't think it 's enough for the welsh government to say that the public should be made aware of the coming into force of section 1 and that a public awareness campaign needs to be sustained until the welsh government 's objectives have been achieved . despite the fact that it is intended to change behaviour , the consequences of this law are far greater than that of organ donation or prohibiting smoking indoors . instead of an opt-out system or a civil offence , this law will remove a defence for parents , information on which could be there on their records for the rest of their lives , potentially separate parents , and could affect employment chances . as such , whilst we agree with the necessity of the awareness campaign , it is important too that the welsh government take stock and ensures that parents are not penalised due to a weak awareness campaign . the witnesses we heard before this committee also noted the necessity of ensuring that the public understands— lynne neagle am : janet , dawn is asking if you 'll take an intervention . dawn bowden am : i just wanted to know—could you give us examples of any other piece of legislation where there 's been indefinite public awareness campaigns once it 's been passed ? janet finch-saunders am : there 's a lot of legislation . the first assembly term when i was here— dawn bowden am : yes , what i 'm asking— janet finch-saunders am : i 'm trying to respond— dawn bowden am : what i 'm asking for is : can you give us specific examples of where there have been indefinite public awareness campaigns running indefinitely past the enactment of a piece of legislation ? janet finch-saunders am : the very first term that i was an assembly member , we passed 25 pieces of separate legislation . even today , as i sit here , the public are not aware of many of those pieces of legislation . this particular piece of legislation will have a profound effect on the parenting of children in wales . so , therefore , i think there is a necessity for both children and parents to become involved , and i shall speak now— dawn bowden am : with respect , chair , that 's not the question i asked . janet finch-saunders am : —to my amendments . lynne neagle am : i can call you in the debate , if you 'd like to make a more substantive contribution on this . yes . janet finch-saunders am : the witnesses who we heard from before this committee also noted the necessity of ensuring that the public understands the implications . and that 's what we 're talking about here , members—the implications of removing this defence . strikingly , the office of police and crime commissioner for gwent stated the following : 'the potential for public resistance to the bill through misunderstanding or confusion over it implications may pose the largest barrier to its implementation . ' if you are intent on removing the defence of reasonable punishment , it is therefore not unreasonable to ensure that law-abiding parents fully understand the ramifications of this bill . additionally , the committee found that while the current welsh government 's intention to deliver a public awareness campaign was beyond doubt , future governments may have less of a commitment . this places further weight on the fact that the welsh government should be under a duty to promote awareness and understanding of the bill beyond its commencement . furthermore , the children ( equal protection from assault ) ( scotland ) bill quite clearly notes that , under section 2 , the scottish ministers must take such steps as they consider appropriate to promote public awareness and understanding about the effect of section 1 on the abolition for the defence of reasonable punishment . therefore , i would be grateful if the deputy minister can respond as to the reasons why the welsh government has deviated from this course of action in their amendment . [ interruption . ] should our amendment be agreed— lynne neagle am : are you taking an intervention ? janet finch-saunders am : no . i 'd rather crack on , to be honest . lynne neagle am : okay . i can call you in the debate , hefin . janet finch-saunders am : should our amendment to be agreed , we also request that a printing change be made to ensure that the new heading reflects promoting awareness of the changes to the law made by section 1 . amendment 1b : amendment 1b is in line with the committee 's recommendation 9 , which stated that , as part of a public awareness campaign , there should be details about the support available to parents to use alternatives to physical punishment when disciplining their children . during evidence at stage 1 , the witnesses we saw before the committee raised serious concerns about harder-to-reach groups who needed to be made aware of removing the defence . for example , children in wales , action for children and play wales stated that some families and communities may be harder to reach with information and support . welsh government needs to make sure that they receive the information they need . now , while the deputy minister states that she would work hard to ensure that harder-to-reach groups receive this information , a duty to provide information on alternatives to physical punishment would ensure that future welsh governments would maintain a successful awareness-raising campaign . i note the deputy minister accepted the recommendation , through our amendment , but this does not explicitly include a duty to provide details about support for parents . as will be expanded upon later , the deputy minister has relied upon the 'parenting : give it time ' campaign to be delivered alongside awareness raising . however , this is only an online resource and she must be clear about what other avenues will be available to parents who do not have access to the internet or are part of harder-to-reach groups . amendment 1c : amendment 1c supports the committee 's recommendation 15 that explains that the welsh government should ensure clear advice is provided on what people can do if they have seen or learned of a child being physically assaulted . we urged , at stage 1 , that although many professionals were already under a duty to report concerns about physical punishment , regardless of the bill , other witnesses raised concerns that it could create the potential for claims of abuse that are unfounded . in particular , some were worried that children , who may not realise the implications of reporting , could make allegations that are actually untrue . while we would expect the awareness-raising campaign to include the consequences of false accusations , this could also be reflected among adults , if the public are not sufficiently made aware of how they can report and in what situations they can report a case of assault . lynne neagle am : thank you . i 've got several speakers . i 've got suzy davies first , then dawn bowden . suzy davies am : thank you very much , chair . thank you minister , and thank you , janet , for that . i think it 's worth just pointing out at this stage that the majority of the amendments that are being made and articulated by janet there are based on committee recommendations , and those recommendations were made after taking evidence from the public at large , but also you as well . so , that suggests that , at that stage , we were n't reassured by the offer that you were making because we felt the need to put these recommendations into our report . now , i recognise that you 've moved some way on some of these amendments , and we 'll been talking about that through the course of the debates on other groups . but the one thing to bear in mind here is this is legislation , now—that means that this is the instrument of the assembly , not of government , and if this assembly feels that the face of the bill is unclear on the minimum requirements of a public awareness campaign , then we have the right to suggest the things that we would like to see in that public awareness-raising campaign . the list that janet has given is a minimum . the reason these have been tabled individually and independently is that some may be acceptable where others may not be , so it will be disappointing to hear that you 're rejecting them all , and the reason they need to go on the face of the bill is that , if you are going to introduce specifics via regulation , at the moment we have no reassurance about how you 're going to do that—about what input the assembly , on behalf of our constituents , could have in designing that public awareness-raising campaign . unless you accept some amendments in other groups , that is the position with this bill : the influence of the assembly will be zero over the content of an awareness-raising campaign . in terms of it being non-time limited , i think the amendment has been tabled in the way it has not to oblige you to an everlasting , never-ending campaign of awareness raising . but if you bear in mind that , seven years after the introduction of this bill , there 's going to be some reporting on the effectiveness of the bill , what is the point of doing that if you do n't then have an obligation , should the reports require it to be necessary , to continue promoting the changes in the law ? i accept that that ca n't go on for centuries , but to actually limit it to two years on an issue that is so sensitive , and which has a reach beyond our boundaries , i think is genuinely a mistake . finally , you mention that safeguarding is everyone 's business . i think that 's true , but i think janet finch-saunders was right to say that members of the public , ordinary individuals , not professionals , will need assurance that they 're doing the right thing . the amendment as listed is not even there to encourage people to do that , although that can be read in that way , but it is to help them be certain that they are doing the right thing . if this is going to be up to the individual , as you 've said , and the committee itself was n't reassured that individuals would know what to do , perhaps i can ask you to consider at stage 3 , if you 're going to reject this amendment , how you can reassure members of the public that , if they are going to intervene on the back of this law , they 're making things better , not worse . lynne neagle am : thank you , suzy . dawn . dawn bowden am : my comments , really , relate to ongoing awareness-raising campaigns , which i think all of us would want to see , and would appreciate in any changes in legislation . my point , really , is that we have a plethora of legislation that this assembly has passed in the last 20 years , and i 'm not aware of any legislation where , on the face of the bill we have ongoing awareness-raising campaigns on an indefinite basis . it seems to me that , for some reason , you seem to be wanting to take a completely different approach to this piece of legislation . from what the deputy minister is saying—and perhaps i will get some clarity on this—there will be an amendment to the legislation that will say that we have an awareness campaign . that awareness campaign can be the subject of consultation with interested parties in terms of what needs to be included in it . it could also , i assume , deputy minister , be an awareness campaign that can be written into a set of guidance for future use . but the point i 'm trying to make is that i do n't believe that any piece of legislation requires ongoing and indefinite awareness-raising campaigns , and particularly in relation to visitors to wales . again , we have other pieces of legislation in wales that are not applicable in the other parts of the uk . i am not aware that there is a necessity for awareness-raising campaigns with visitors coming into wales on the raft of the other pieces of legislation that we have that they do n't . and similarly , when we go to visit countries that have different legislation , we do n't necessarily know what legislation we 're going into when we visit that country—you just go there and you accept that you go to a different country and you abide by their laws . so , my key point , chair , is just the necessity of an ongoing , endless awareness campaign being written onto the face of the bill . lynne neagle am : thank you , dawn . hefin . hefin david am : my comments follow logically from dawn bowden 's comments , particularly in relation to amendments 1d and 1e . what you would be doing is that this senedd , if this was on the face of the bill , the duty on ministers , would be putting the duty on ministers in law beyond the life of the fifth senedd , into the next senedd term , and putting that duty on those newly elected ministers after that , which , in principle , would be against the principles of binding— lynne neagle am : hefin , are you taking an intervention from suzy ? hefin david am : yes , happy to . suzy davies am : when you 've finished your point . hefin david am : i 'm happy to take it now , because i was going to sum up by agreeing with the point you made , actually . suzy davies am : i 'd love that . you referred to this potentially binding ministers in future assemblies ; at the moment , we 've got an implementation period and a five-year reporting period that takes any reporting on this act into the assembly after next . i 'm wondering if you 're going to have any comments on that when we come to the amendment to change that later on . hefin david am : well , when we get to that amendment , i 'll make comments if i feel it necessary . but at this point in time , we 're talking about amendments 1d and 1e , and particularly in relation to 1d and 1e it just is n't necessary , given the fact that—i wo n't call it a concession , because i think you made a reasonable point about the minister making a statement at stage 3 , and i think dawn bowden actually supported that as well . that , therefore , makes those amendments unnecessary . given that , in these circumstances , it is unnecessary to bind ministers in future parliaments . and that 's my key point , really , which is why i would n't vote for those two amendments . lynne neagle am : thank you . siân . sian gwenllian am : thank you very much . i just want to speak against amendment 1a and also amendment 1b . i do n't believe that there is a need for an indefinite campaign , as is outlined in 1a . i agree entirely that there is a need for a campaign during the period of change , and therefore i 'm very glad to see that the government has brought forward amendment 1 , and i do hope that there will be a real push during the period of change . in terms of amendment 1b , i do have sympathy with what is being said here , but i believe that any kind of information or campaign in terms of enabling parents to learn about alternatives to physical punishment should be the subject of continual far-reaching work by the government , through various programmes , and it should not be an addition on the face of this bill , which deals with a small change to the common law . and then , on 1d also , if i may—i do n't agree with this either . again , i believe that there is a need to promote awareness amongst children , but that should happen through the children 's rights convention , as part of a broader programme to promote children 's rights . lynne neagle am : thank you , siân . i call on the deputy minister to speak , then . julie morgan am : thank you all very much for your contributions to the debate and your comments on these amendments today . i just want to re-emphasise that it is as a result of the recommendation from this committee that we are putting this duty to have the awareness campaign on the face of the bill , and i absolutely recognise the crucial role awareness raising has to play in supporting the implementation of the bill . i 'm very grateful for and appreciate the committee 's interest and the work that you 've done in this area of work . but i do think that these amendments are unnecessary . if we go through them , amendment 1a is really open-ended on promoting public awareness . we 're committed to a high-intensity awareness over six years from royal assent , and there is an expert stakeholder group supporting us with the development of the awareness campaign . all the points that you 've been making will be being considered by that group . i think the level of detail on the face of the bill is not needed . suzy davies am : okay . would you just take an intervention on that just to help me understand ? a two-year awareness-raising campaign—how have you concluded that— julie morgan am : six-year . suzy davies am : i thought it was two years before section 1 comes into force . julie morgan am : we 've got six years from royal assent . suzy davies am : oh , so it is going to continue beyond section 1 coming into force— julie morgan am : yes . oh yes , it 's going to continue . suzy davies am : that 's very helpful . julie morgan am : definitely , yes . so , i do n't think that 's needed , amendment 1a . amendment 1b , about support available to parents and how to access it—again , this level of detail is not required on the face of the bill . i just want to emphasise we have got this expert implementation group , who are working on all aspects of this bill , many of whom represent organisations who gave evidence to this committee . the bill is a simple one , with a clear purpose . it aims to remove the defence of reasonable punishment . i think lots of these amendments are very helpful and interesting , but would be discussed and would be acted on in the normal pathway of planning and development , and they 're not required on the face of the bill . so , i 'm not putting them down , i 'm just saying that we do n't need them to be there on the face of the bill . and then amendment 1c—the information about how to raise concerns—i do repeat that safeguarding is everybody 's business , and the same issues apply now as will after this defence has been removed . amendment 1d—ministers to have regard to the need to promote awareness among children—now , children 's rights are absolutely enshrined in our policy making , and the entire bill is about protecting the rights of children . so , it is unnecessary duplication . so , we hope that the bill will remain focused . again , in terms of visitors , the level of detail is simply not required on the face of the bill . our awareness-raising campaign will be comprehensive . and then to pick up a few of the other points that were raised , revisions to the impact assessments are being considered as part of my commitment to update the explanatory memorandum ahead of stage 3 . so , there will be more details on the regulatory impact assessment . the issue that was raised about the scottish bill , that it refers to 'understanding'—now , the scottish bill was not a government bill , it was a private member 's bill , and our view is that nothing is added by adding the 'understanding ' ; 'awareness ' is sufficient . so , basically , i think that the points made have been very useful , but i urge committee members to accept my amendments , but to reject those proposed by janet finch-saunders , as they are unnecessary provisions in terms of what the awareness-raising duty needs to achieve . lynne neagle am : thank you , deputy minister . before disposing of amendment 1 , we will deal with the amendments to that amendment . janet , do you wish to move amendment 1a ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : thank you . the question is that amendment 1a be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we have an objection . i therefore take a vote by show of hands . the question is that amendment 1a be agreed . all those in favour , please raise your hands . all those against . there voted two in favour , four against . so , amendment 1a is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 1b ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 1b be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , i 'll take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 1b . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 1b is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 1c ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : thank you . the question is that amendment 1c be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay . all those in favour of amendment 1c , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 1c is not agreed . janet , do you want to move amendment 1d ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : thank you . the question is that amendment 1d be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , as there 's an objection , i 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 1d , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 1d is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 1e ? okay . the question is that amendment 1e be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 1e , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 1e is not agreed . if amendment 1 is not agreed , amendment 2c and amendment 4 will fall . deputy minister , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 1 ? </s>
<s> how did the deputy minister speak to her amendments in group 1 that related to the duty to promote public awareness ? </s> julie morgan am : thank you very much , chair . my amendments 1 and 4 will place a duty on welsh ministers to provide information and increase awareness about the change in the law to ensure that the public are made aware of how the law will change as a result of the defence of reasonable punishment being abolished and that physical punishment would be prohibited once the act commences . i tabled these amendments in response to this committee 's recommendation—this was a recommendation from this committee in the stage 1 report , so i have responded to that . i 've already made a commitment to a high-intensity awareness-raising campaign over approximately six years from royal assent , should the bill be passed . i 've considered amendments 1a to 1e , which have been tabled by janet finch-saunders , and which relate to the duty to raise awareness . amendment 1a introduces a reference to public understanding . we do n't think , actually , that this adds anything to the government amendment , which already mentions awareness . it makes the awareness-raising duty open-ended with no time limit , which is not necessary . by commencement , messaging around the change in the law will be embedded . the awareness-raising campaign will continue for a number of years . therefore , an ongoing duty referring specifically to the law change would not be required . i understand , of course , that the awareness-raising campaign needs to be comprehensive , well planned and to reach out to all those people and all those communities who need to be aware of the law change , and understand how to respond to it . but i do n't think it 's helpful or necessary to highlight specific groups , such as visitors to wales , on the face of the bill—that 's the approach taken in amendment 1e—as it risks placing too much emphasis on certain groups at the expense of others . in relation to children , the committee will know that i 'm fully committed to children ’ s rights , and that welsh ministers are already under a duty to have due regard to the rights of children whenever they exercise their functions . an additional due regard requirement , such as the one set out in amendment 1d , relating specifically to the need to promote awareness among children is not needed . this would be part and parcel of the welsh government approach to putting children ’ s rights at the heart of our policy making . similarly , i do n't think it 's necessary for the bill to set out specifically the topics that need to be covered in the awareness-raising campaign , as is suggested in amendments 1b and 1c . that level of detail , i do n't think , is for the face of the bill . information required about parenting support will be considered by the parenting expert group , under the auspices of the bill ’ s strategic implementation group , working with my officials and the expert stakeholder group on the awareness-raising campaign . and , really , their thinking should not be constrained in any way by specifications on the face of the bill . i think we always need to bear in mind that what the bill does is remove a defence to an existing criminal offence ; it does not create a new offence . and in this context , it does n't make sense for this bill to contain a provision requiring the provision of information about how a person may raise concerns if it appears to them that a child is being physically punished . as i set out in my letter to this committee responding to recommendation 15 on this point , safeguarding is everyone ’ s business , and , as now , the public have a role in highlighting to relevant services if they are concerned about a child . i 'm asking for the support of members for amendments 1 and 4 , and i ask members to reject amendments 1a to 1e because this would place unnecessary provisions on the face of the bill . thank you all very much for your contributions to the debate and your comments on these amendments today . i just want to re-emphasise that it is as a result of the recommendation from this committee that we are putting this duty to have the awareness campaign on the face of the bill , and i absolutely recognise the crucial role awareness raising has to play in supporting the implementation of the bill . i 'm very grateful for and appreciate the committee 's interest and the work that you 've done in this area of work . but i do think that these amendments are unnecessary . if we go through them , amendment 1a is really open-ended on promoting public awareness . we 're committed to a high-intensity awareness over six years from royal assent , and there is an expert stakeholder group supporting us with the development of the awareness campaign . all the points that you 've been making will be being considered by that group . i think the level of detail on the face of the bill is not needed . suzy davies am : okay . would you just take an intervention on that just to help me understand ? a two-year awareness-raising campaign—how have you concluded that— julie morgan am : six-year . suzy davies am : i thought it was two years before section 1 comes into force . julie morgan am : we 've got six years from royal assent . suzy davies am : oh , so it is going to continue beyond section 1 coming into force— julie morgan am : yes . oh yes , it 's going to continue . suzy davies am : that 's very helpful . </s>
<s> what did janet finch-saunders say for amendments 1a to 1e when discussing the amendments in group 1 that related to the duty to promote public awareness ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . i wish to speak to amendments 1a to 1e , which relate to the deputy minister 's amendment on the duty to promote public awareness . while we believe it is absolutely imperative that the public are made aware of this controversial change in the law , the deputy minister 's amendment lacks a number of key points that the committee were actually keen to address at stage 1 . an important thread runs throughout each and every amendment that i 've tabled within this group—that of a sustained awareness campaign , which not only stretches beyond the implementation of the bill , but serves as a duty for future administrations . amendment 1a : primarily , amendment 1a changes amendment 1 to include the promotion of understanding changes to the law . i do n't think it 's enough for the welsh government to say that the public should be made aware of the coming into force of section 1 and that a public awareness campaign needs to be sustained until the welsh government 's objectives have been achieved . despite the fact that it is intended to change behaviour , the consequences of this law are far greater than that of organ donation or prohibiting smoking indoors . instead of an opt-out system or a civil offence , this law will remove a defence for parents , information on which could be there on their records for the rest of their lives , potentially separate parents , and could affect employment chances . as such , whilst we agree with the necessity of the awareness campaign , it is important too that the welsh government take stock and ensures that parents are not penalised due to a weak awareness campaign . the witnesses we heard before this committee also noted the necessity of ensuring that the public understands— lynne neagle am : janet , dawn is asking if you 'll take an intervention . dawn bowden am : i just wanted to know—could you give us examples of any other piece of legislation where there 's been indefinite public awareness campaigns once it 's been passed ? janet finch-saunders am : there 's a lot of legislation . the first assembly term when i was here— dawn bowden am : yes , what i 'm asking— janet finch-saunders am : i 'm trying to respond— dawn bowden am : what i 'm asking for is : can you give us specific examples of where there have been indefinite public awareness campaigns running indefinitely past the enactment of a piece of legislation ? janet finch-saunders am : the very first term that i was an assembly member , we passed 25 pieces of separate legislation . even today , as i sit here , the public are not aware of many of those pieces of legislation . this particular piece of legislation will have a profound effect on the parenting of children in wales . so , therefore , i think there is a necessity for both children and parents to become involved , and i shall speak now— dawn bowden am : with respect , chair , that 's not the question i asked . janet finch-saunders am : —to my amendments . lynne neagle am : i can call you in the debate , if you 'd like to make a more substantive contribution on this . yes . janet finch-saunders am : the witnesses who we heard from before this committee also noted the necessity of ensuring that the public understands the implications . and that 's what we 're talking about here , members—the implications of removing this defence . strikingly , the office of police and crime commissioner for gwent stated the following : 'the potential for public resistance to the bill through misunderstanding or confusion over it implications may pose the largest barrier to its implementation . ' if you are intent on removing the defence of reasonable punishment , it is therefore not unreasonable to ensure that law-abiding parents fully understand the ramifications of this bill . additionally , the committee found that while the current welsh government 's intention to deliver a public awareness campaign was beyond doubt , future governments may have less of a commitment . this places further weight on the fact that the welsh government should be under a duty to promote awareness and understanding of the bill beyond its commencement . furthermore , the children ( equal protection from assault ) ( scotland ) bill quite clearly notes that , under section 2 , the scottish ministers must take such steps as they consider appropriate to promote public awareness and understanding about the effect of section 1 on the abolition for the defence of reasonable punishment . therefore , i would be grateful if the deputy minister can respond as to the reasons why the welsh government has deviated from this course of action in their amendment . [ interruption . ] should our amendment be agreed— lynne neagle am : are you taking an intervention ? janet finch-saunders am : no . i 'd rather crack on , to be honest . lynne neagle am : okay . i can call you in the debate , hefin . </s>
<s> summarize their discussions on the amendments related to the duty to report on the effect of the legislation . </s> lynne neagle am : thank you . okay . i move amendment 1 in the name of the deputy minister . the question is that amendment 1 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we have an objection , so we 'll take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 1 . all those against . so , there voted four in favour , two against , and amendment 1 is agreed . we 'll move on now then to group 2 , which relates to the duty to report on the effect of the legislation . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 2 , in the name of the deputy minister . i move amendment 2 in the deputy minister 's name , and call on the deputy minister to speak to her amendments , and the other amendments in this group . julie morgan am : thank you , chair . the amendments in this group are to do with the post-implementation review of the bill , and i believe there was also a committee recommendation to this end from your committee , so you strongly influenced this amendment . it 's clear from members ' contributions to this group and recommendations by the committee at stage 1 that they share my commitment to the importance of post-implementation review of the effect of the abolition of the defence of reasonable punishment . i 've already provided assurance that i agree with the importance placed on such a review , both in the explanatory memorandum and during stage 1 scrutiny . i also made a commitment to bring forward a government amendment to put a duty to undertake a post-implementation review on the face of the bill . i have done this with amendment 2 . amendment 5 sets out that this provision will come into force the day after royal assent . as i said in my responses to the stage 1 committee report , and as set out in the explanatory memorandum , the post-implementation review of this bill will not be a single piece of work , but a continuous programme of work during the years following the commencement of section 1 . firstly , we will continue to conduct attitudinal surveys , which will be used to track changes in attitude towards the physical punishment of children and prevalence of parents reporting that they use physical punishment . the surveys will also be used to monitor the effectiveness of our awareness-raising campaign . secondly , through a dedicated task and finish group , we are working with organisations to put in place arrangements to establish robust methods for capturing meaningful data relating to the bill and to consider the possible impact on services . turning to amendment 2c , this amendment would require welsh ministers to prepare and lay before the assembly a report on the effect of their promotion of public awareness before section 1 is commenced . this amendment is unnecessary and is in conflict with what i think is a priority for the implementation of this bill : that is , given certainty on the commencement date and in enabling us to work towards this with our partners and stakeholders . i also think this amendment is not required because , as i 've already stated , we are preparing to assess the effectiveness of our awareness raising . in june , i shared the findings of a representative survey , which establishes a baseline on public awareness and opinion towards physical punishment of children and the proposed legislation . i shared this with the committee . lynne neagle am : thank you , deputy minister . i open it up for discussion now , then . janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . i speak to amendments 2c , excluding 2d , to 2k , which relate to the deputy minister 's amendment 2 on preparing a published report on the effect of abolishing the defence of reasonable punishment . again , i must stress the importance of getting this right due to the controversial and long-lasting effects of removing the defence of reasonable punishment . amendments 2e to 2k outline what we would expect to be within this report , and we would wish to see a commitment from the deputy minister to ensure the national assembly for wales is fully apprised and able to scrutinise the result of this report . amendment 2c requests that the welsh government prepare a report on the awareness-raising campaign and lays it before the assembly before section 1 commences . as i have outlined under my amendments in group 1 , the understanding of the public about the implications of the bill can not be sidelined . although the deputy minister has repeated her commitment to a public awareness campaign , we , as the national assembly for wales , must be able to scrutinise its effectiveness before section 1 begins . as i noted under amendments 1b to 1e , there are specific groups of people who need to be evaluated on their understanding of the bill 's effect . i 'm sure that the deputy minister will agree that the harder-to-reach groups are undoubtedly the most vulnerable to any negative impacts that the bill will have because of the greater potential of a lack of awareness . it is , therefore , important for the assembly to be able to determine whether the awareness-raising campaign has had a positive effect on these groups of people . as will also be elaborated under amendment 2d , it is extremely important that we , as the parliament of wales , are fully apprised of the awareness-raising campaign 's impact . before we implement what will be a criminal offence , it is vital that we ensure that those affected are not adversely impacted because of a poorly targeted awareness campaign . therefore , i would be grateful if the deputy minister would commit to an independent evaluation of the awareness campaign 's effects before section 1 commences . lynne neagle am : thank you , janet . suzy davies . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . deputy minister , first of all , can i just say thank you for your opening remarks about the possibility of perhaps doing some work around amendment 2b ? i 'll come to that a little bit later , if i may . i just want to begin by commenting briefly on what you said about why you 'll be rejecting amendment 2c here . i actually do n't think that this amendment should affect or jeopardise the commencement date in any way at all . it 's an operational requirement to get this work done before the commencement date that 's in the draft bill at the moment . so , failing to meet that would be as a result of operations not going well , rather than anything intrinsic in the bill , so i 'm not sure i can accept your argument on that . and , on 2d—very pleased to hear that you 'd be willing to introduce something about 'laying ' rather than 'publishing ' at stage 3 , but , in the spirit of recognising that this is the legislature , perhaps i could encourage you just to accept the amendment at this stage , because it does n't make any difference . your amendment is going to pass , and this amendment to it would be—i think the gesture there would be very much appreciated . i 'll be speaking mainly to amendments 2a and 2b , but i want to begin , again , by thanking you for moving some way on this and considering amendments to the bill on the issue of reporting , because i know you were keen to avoid amendments in the name of simplicity ; you mentioned it earlier . but this is not a newid bychan , i 'm afraid , siân ; the terms and the effect of this bill are quite extensive , and it does need the reassurances , if you like , necessary to mitigate potentially disproportionate effects of this bill on families where parents ' actions had been lawful up until this point in statute . it does need statutory underpinning . so , i am grateful to you for accepting this duty . i know that you 're sincere that you want this duty to report to show that the bill is effective in stopping smacking as a punishment , and also that it is not as harmful to parents as perhaps some of us fear . but , if this were me bringing forward this bill , i think i 'd want to show the world that i was doing the right thing a lot sooner than you appear to wish to do . amendment 2 means that the efficacy of the bill will not formally be assessed until seven years after it has passed . there are acts on the statute book that have lasted a lot less time than that . if you 're relying on the two-year period before section 1 comes into operation to do much of the heavy lifting on the culture change , and i think that is what you 're expecting—you know , showing a reduction in the incidence of physical punishment , reducing the number of , and indeed the likelihood of , parents putting themselves in the path of criminal liability once those two years are up—i really would have thought you 'd want people to know sooner , or as soon as the first possible opportunity on that . waiting five years , i think , will diminish the ability of you to prove the efficacy of those initial two years , and this is why i 'm grateful to you for your offer , because there may be a way where we can overcome that . if the trend of culture change is continuing after year 3—so , basically , in the first year after section 1 comes into effect—that 's great , but there 's a possibility it 's going to reverse . again , i do n't think i 'd want to wait five years to find that out . for myself , i think one year would probably be enough , but i think three years is a reasonable compromise , as opposed to five years , for a reporting period . i think seven years is just way too long for a formal evaluation of a bill 's effectiveness . i ca n't see the reason for quite that length of time—i know you 've talked about new zealand—but neither can the constitutional and legislative affairs committee . i think that 's worth pointing out . when they took the step of recommending this duty to evaluate and report , they also took the step of suggesting a three-year reporting period being more in keeping with other post-legislative scrutiny . that 's something i think we perhaps need to bear in mind now , as we enter this period of the consolidation of law . five/seven years is really something of an outlier , and while that might have been appropriate , perhaps , in new zealand , i do n't think that fits in with our timetables generally here in wales , and , of course , there are other countries that have introduced this over a period of years , and i note that you have n't drawn on them in order to support your argument . so , can i urge members and the minister to consider the arguments behind these amendments ? i do n't think it 's going to reassure anyone—you may want to intervene at this point , hefin—that we not only wo n't hear in this assembly , we wo n't hear in the next assembly , about the formal evaluation of this , unless i follow— hefin david am : i wo n't intervene ; i 'll speak . suzy davies am : is that okay ? hefin david am : yes , i 'll make the point . lynne neagle am : okay , i 've got— suzy davies am : yes , i 'll take the intervention . lynne neagle am : no , he does n't want to make an intervention— hefin david am : i wo n't do an intervention ; i 'll speak . lynne neagle am : —he 'll make a contribution . suzy davies am : oh , apologies— hefin david am : just to say— suzy davies am : i 'll wait . hefin david am : well , let me put the intervention— . i 'll do it as an intervention , then . i just feel that—i take your point , and i was expecting it . the point i was making about 1d and 1e is they close down choices to ministers in future assemblies . an evaluative practice would actually open up those choices and give future parliaments more options with regard to this bill , so i think it 's entirely consistent . i do n't think the minister , in putting in amendment 2 , was trying to undermine my argument . actually , i think she 's being constructive by doing that , and i think amendment 2 is a practical amendment that 's quite helpful , and its consequence will be to open up choices to future parliaments , whereas my objection to 1d and 1e is they close those down . suzy davies am : okay , well , as i say , i think , actually , the deputy minister 's offer of a three-year interim period might be part of a resolution to this . because i 'm not 100 per cent sure i accept your argument , either , because it closes it down for the interim period if we do n't move on with the deputy minister 's suggestion—which i 'll talk about now , actually . because i am tempted to accept your offer . it absolutely makes sense and it 's clearly made with the best good faith here . but i need some clarity on what you would allow this assembly to do in helping define the terms of that interim report . because you 've been very clear that you do n't want to accept the things that janet finch-saunders has been talking about in a final report , and yet i can tell you we want to hear about these things . so , if you 're in a position where you can give a commitment at stage 3 not only to introduce an interim report , but that you will consult with , perhaps , this committee—i 'll leave it to you—on the contents of that interim report , what we would want to see tested , then i 'll be minded not to move amendment 2b . if you ca n't give me that reassurance , then i 'm going to move it anyway and we 'll return to it at stage 3 , if you do n't mind . just a final point on this issue of reporting within three months rather than as soon as practicable , and i do take your point that there may be a misalignment with reporting periods from the organisations you hope to talk to . again , at stage 3 , i 'm happy if you want to make three months six months , or something like that , but 'as soon as practicable ' is open ended , and what you think is practicable may be very different from what i or my constituents think is practicable . so , i do n't want to stick with what is practicable ; i would like you to put a date on this . if it 's a case that you think six months is long enough for data gathering and reporting from third parties , i think that 's fairly reasonable as well , but i 'm not minded to allow you to just keep this open ended . thank you . lynne neagle am : thank you , suzy . siân . sian gwenllian am : yes , i welcome adding to the bill through amendment 2 , and what you 've said today also , that you 're willing to provide an interim report and bring an amendment forward to allow that through the bill , and to lay a report before the assembly . i am interested in what suzy is saying , and have a lot of sympathy with trying to tie it down to specific time periods , and not say 'when it will be practicable ' . therefore , i would encourage you not to move your amendments if you have the confirmation that you want to hear this morning from the minister regarding these issues . suzy davies am : i would like to . thanks . lynne neagle am : thank you . any other members ? no . deputy minister . julie morgan am : well , just to start off on that point , i think your suggestion about how we consult and discuss , i think i 'm very happy to accept that . so , i 'm happy to discuss that with you , and with the committee , before the third stage . so , i hope you will consider removing— . suzy davies am : no , genuinely i am . julie morgan am : right , thank you . well , just to go on to cover some of the points that have been raised , on the issue of training now , i think janet raised a number of points about training , and we do have an operations , procedures , processes and training task and finish group as part of our implementation work , and they are considering guidance and training requirements . there are many professional bodies represented on that group , many of whom i think have given evidence here today , and they 've really got a chance to have their say . the officials are also looking at training as part of the revision of the explanatory memorandum at stage 3 , so there will be more information about training there . but we have this group looking at it , and it is very key . generally , i think that all the contributions are very helpful , and i know they 're meant in the spirit of trying to improve the legislation . i ca n't support amendments 2a , 2c , and amendments 2e to 2k , because these amendments make little difference in terms of practical effect to what we have in the bill already , or they 're covered by the government amendments that i 've moved . but i do hope the committee is reassured that we are committed to undertaking a very thorough , multifaceted review of the impact of the legislation that includes tracking public attitudes and considering impacts on public services . now , tracking the public attitudes will be going along at regular points , so there 's no question there of having to wait ; we 'll be having regular reporting of public attitudes . suzy davies am : would you take an intervention there , deputy minister ? thank you very much . of course , i appreciate that you will not be supporting these amendments , but can you give us some indication of how many of the areas of interest to us you will be reporting on ? so , even if this is not a statutory commitment , what exactly from our list , our wish list here , would you be prepared to include in your evaluation ? julie morgan am : well , i would actually have thought all of them . all the areas you 've raised are very relevant , i think . obviously , this is not a statutory thing i 'm saying , but— suzy davies am : no , no , and this is not a— julie morgan am : yes , but considering those points you 've put forward , i think all of them have got a great deal of relevance . we will certainly be reporting to the group to consider any of the ideas that you 've suggested and , in particular with the data collection and the monitoring task and finish group , which is about developing methods to collect data , we will be putting forward some of the suggestions that you 've made on those issues . so , i do n't see any problem with that at all . suzy davies am : thank you . julie morgan am : so , as i say , i ca n't support the amendments . i 'm hopeful you may withdraw the two amendments—i think one of yours and it was one of janet 's , was n't it—so that we could work together on those before the next stage . because i am sympathetic to your views on these matters , and i think they do reflect some of the discussions in the committee as well . so , i 'd be happy to work with you to bring forward the amendments at stage 3 . in line with the recommendations of the finance committee , further details of the costs associated with the post-implementation review will be provided in a revised regulatory impact assessment at stage 3 . so , i think at this point i would ask that members reject the non-government amendments and agree to my amendments 2 and 5 , which will ultimately achieve the same policy aim without the need for unnecessary detail on the bill , with the exception , obviously , of those two amendments , which i 'm prepared to look at a way of moving forward on . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you , deputy minister . before disposing of amendment 2 , we will deal with the amendments to that amendment . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2c ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2c be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 2c , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2c is lost . suzy , do you wish to move amendment 2a ? suzy davies am : i move amendment 2a , yes . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2a be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 2a , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2a is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2d ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : janet , do you wish to move amendment 2e ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2e be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , we 'll take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 2e , please show . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2e is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2f ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2f be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so can i see all those in favour of amendment 2f ? all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 2f is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2g ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2g be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , can i see all those in favour of amendment 2g ? all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against , and amendment 2g is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2h ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2h be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so can i see all those in favour of amendment 2h ? all those against ? so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2h is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2i ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2i be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay . can i see all those in favour of amendment 2i ? all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2i is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2j ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2j be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] we have an objection , so i 'll take a vote . can i see all those in favour of 2j ? all those against ? so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2j is not agreed . janet , do you wish to move amendment 2k ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 2k be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] i 'll therefore take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 2k ? all those against ? so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 2k is not agreed . suzy , do you wish to move amendment 2b ? suzy davies am : in view of the deputy minister 's reassurances , i wo n't move this amendment today , but obviously i reserve the right to bring something back if we ca n't reach consensus . thank you . lynne neagle am : does any other member wish to move amendment 2b ? okay , no . thank you . we 'll move on , then . if amendment 2 is not agreed , amendment 5 will fall . deputy minister , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 2 ? thank you . the question is that amendment 2 be agreed . does any member object ? amendment 2— suzy davies am : objection . </s>
<s> how did the deputy minister speak to her amendments in group 2 that relate to the duty to report on the effect of the legislation ? </s> julie morgan am : thank you , chair . the amendments in this group are to do with the post-implementation review of the bill , and i believe there was also a committee recommendation to this end from your committee , so you strongly influenced this amendment . it 's clear from members ' contributions to this group and recommendations by the committee at stage 1 that they share my commitment to the importance of post-implementation review of the effect of the abolition of the defence of reasonable punishment . i 've already provided assurance that i agree with the importance placed on such a review , both in the explanatory memorandum and during stage 1 scrutiny . i also made a commitment to bring forward a government amendment to put a duty to undertake a post-implementation review on the face of the bill . i have done this with amendment 2 . amendment 5 sets out that this provision will come into force the day after royal assent . as i said in my responses to the stage 1 committee report , and as set out in the explanatory memorandum , the post-implementation review of this bill will not be a single piece of work , but a continuous programme of work during the years following the commencement of section 1 . firstly , we will continue to conduct attitudinal surveys , which will be used to track changes in attitude towards the physical punishment of children and prevalence of parents reporting that they use physical punishment . the surveys will also be used to monitor the effectiveness of our awareness-raising campaign . secondly , through a dedicated task and finish group , we are working with organisations to put in place arrangements to establish robust methods for capturing meaningful data relating to the bill and to consider the possible impact on services . turning to amendment 2c , this amendment would require welsh ministers to prepare and lay before the assembly a report on the effect of their promotion of public awareness before section 1 is commenced . this amendment is unnecessary and is in conflict with what i think is a priority for the implementation of this bill : that is , given certainty on the commencement date and in enabling us to work towards this with our partners and stakeholders . i also think this amendment is not required because , as i 've already stated , we are preparing to assess the effectiveness of our awareness raising . in june , i shared the findings of a representative survey , which establishes a baseline on public awareness and opinion towards physical punishment of children and the proposed legislation . i shared this with the committee . right , thank you . well , just to go on to cover some of the points that have been raised , on the issue of training now , i think janet raised a number of points about training , and we do have an operations , procedures , processes and training task and finish group as part of our implementation work , and they are considering guidance and training requirements . there are many professional bodies represented on that group , many of whom i think have given evidence here today , and they 've really got a chance to have their say . the officials are also looking at training as part of the revision of the explanatory memorandum at stage 3 , so there will be more information about training there . but we have this group looking at it , and it is very key . generally , i think that all the contributions are very helpful , and i know they 're meant in the spirit of trying to improve the legislation . i ca n't support amendments 2a , 2c , and amendments 2e to 2k , because these amendments make little difference in terms of practical effect to what we have in the bill already , or they 're covered by the government amendments that i 've moved . but i do hope the committee is reassured that we are committed to undertaking a very thorough , multifaceted review of the impact of the legislation that includes tracking public attitudes and considering impacts on public services . now , tracking the public attitudes will be going along at regular points , so there 's no question there of having to wait ; we 'll be having regular reporting of public attitudes . </s>
<s> summarize janet-finch-saunders ' opinion on amendments in group 2 that relate to the duty to report on the effect of the legislation . </s>  </s>
<s> summarize their discussions on the amendments in group 3 that relate to the regulation-making powers in the bill . </s> lynne neagle am : okay . right , we 'll therefore take a vote . all those in favour of amendment 2 , please show . all those against . so , there voted four in favour , two against , and amendment 2 is agreed . that takes us on to group 3 , which relates to the regulation-making powers in the bill . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 3 in the name of the deputy minister . i move amendment 3 in the deputy minister 's name and call on the deputy minister to speak to her amendments and the other amendments in this group . julie morgan am : thank you very much , chair . members will note that i 've brought forward an amendment to provide certainty on the date of commencement of the core provision in the bill , which is obviously to abolish the defence of reasonable punishment . and that is going to be debated under group 5 . so , we 're obviously debating that after we deal with these particular technical issues—these are technical issues here , basically . as a consequence of proposing to remove the power for a welsh minister to make an order for commencement , the power to make transitory , transitional or saving provisions in connection with section 1 of the bill coming into force would also be removed . so , i 'm not seeking here to add any new powers to the bill ; amendment 3 will simply add this existing power back onto the face of the bill where amendments 7 and 8 remove it , and amendment 6 will bring the power into force the day after royal assent . in fact , removing the power for the welsh ministers to commence the provision in section 1 by order means the statutory instrument will actually do less than originally intended . these amendments are technical in nature and while i acknowledge that the constitutional and legislative affairs committee raised the issue of what procedure should be applied , their report did not call for any change to no procedure being applied . the absence of an assembly procedure does not mean that ministers ' decisions in relation to transitional powers can not be scrutinised by the assembly . any concerns about the welsh ministers ' proposals could be put to me in the senedd . this was a point made to clac and , as i say , their final conclusion was that no procedure is the appropriate procedure for such a power . for those reasons , i encourage members to reject amendment 3a from suzy . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . suzy davies . suzy davies am : thank you very much . well perhaps , deputy minister , i can begin by saying that one person 's technical issue is another person 's essential part of the legislative procedure and a keen element in scrutiny . but i thank you for noting the assembly 's observations on the ministerial powers granted in this bill—this time by clac , as you say . moving this—and i 'm glad actually that amendment 8 , i think it was , has removed an order provision and we 're moving into an area where at least statutory instruments do feature here . i have to say that amendment 3a is something of a probing amendment , and i 'll explain why now . your amendment 3 seeks to give a familiar range of powers in connection with the coming into force of section 1 , but it 's actually in a substantive part of section 1 itself now—it 's not a separate commencement power . and , actually , i 've been listening to the rest of this debate , and thinking that , if you 're going to be introducing an awareness campaign and a report , the chances are you 're going to need some regulatory powers to introduce some of the aspects of both those policy areas , i think . and i 'm wondering whether the—what is it—transitory , transitional and saving provisions are actually enough powers for you under the course of this bill . i 'm wondering whether you want to consider actually amending this to give yourself the more usual unrestricted power to make regulations in order for you to get section 1 implemented , bearing in mind that it has now been amended from that original , very short and simple—or at least simple in terms of drafting—initial draft . as i say , in anticipation of you rejecting amendments in group 1 i tabled this , in order to make sure that an opportunity remains for the assembly to bring anything you may wish to introduce under section 1 , when it comes into effect , onto the floor of the assembly . because while i completely accept that you 've acknowledged that statutory instrument is the process for introducing things from now on , it 's still possible to do that without procedure , and so i have no idea whether you think what you introduce would be better suited to be introduced by a negative or affirmative procedure . amendment 3a is a holding position , which we will return to you in stage 3 , because i think , again , this is an area where it might be valuable for us to discuss quite what kind of powers you 're looking for , because i think you probably need something that 's beyond transitional , transitory and saving . lynne neagle am : okay . suzy , have you finished ? suzy davies am : yes , thank you very much . lynne neagle am : are there any other members who wish to speak on this group ? no . deputy minister . julie morgan am : i thank suzy for that input . we do n't actually think it 's necessary to have wider powers , but we will keep this under review and at stage 3 , i think that— . when i was looking at this , i was concerned to know what the transitory powers—what we would actually need to do at that stage , but i can understand that there may be links to other bills in ways that we are not anticipating at the moment that would make it necessary to have those powers . so , basically , i do n't think it is necessary to have wider powers , but i can assure you that we 'll keep that in review coming up to stage 3 . suzy davies am : can i just ask a question on the back of that ? lynne neagle am : will you take a brief intervention at the end , minister ? suzy davies am : will you take the briefest intervention before your full stop ? julie morgan am : i was going to end there , yes . suzy davies am : right , okay , well , just before your full stop , would you just confirm that you 're happy for us to discuss this before stage 3 ? julie morgan am : yes , very happy . yes . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . before disposing of amendment 3 , we will deal with the amendment to that amendment . suzy , do you wish to move amendment 3a ? suzy davies am : i 'll move it , yes . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 3a be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] okay , i 'll take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour of amendment 3a . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 3a is not agreed . if amendment 3 is not agreed , amendment 6 will fall . deputy minister , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 3 ? the question is that amendment 3 be agreed . does any member object ? amendment 3 is therefore agreed . the committee will now break for 10 minutes and reconvene at 11.05 a.m. can i welcome members back ? we will move on to group 4 , which relates to the duty to ensure sufficient funding . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 11 in the name of janet finch-saunders . i call on janet finch-saunders to move amendment 11 and to speak to her amendments . janet . </s>
<s> how did deputy minister speak to her amendments and the other amendments in group 3 , which relates to the regulation-making powers in the bill ? </s>  </s>
<s> how did suzy davies say about amendment 3a when discussing the amendments in group 3 which relates to the regulation-making powers in the bill ? </s>  </s>
<s> summarize their discussions on amendment 11 and 12 that relate to the duty to ensure sufficient funding . </s> lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 3 be agreed . does any member object ? amendment 3 is therefore agreed . the committee will now break for 10 minutes and reconvene at 11.05 a.m. can i welcome members back ? we will move on to group 4 , which relates to the duty to ensure sufficient funding . the lead amendment in the group is amendment 11 in the name of janet finch-saunders . i call on janet finch-saunders to move amendment 11 and to speak to her amendments . janet . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . i speak to both amendments in this group . as i outlined under amendments 2i and 2j , there are ongoing concerns about the potential costs for welsh devolved authorities and the lack of quantifiable costs within the regulatory impact assessment . now , it was absolutely clear from evidence that we received in this committee that unknown costs would be challenging and potentially problematic . as i have mentioned previously , these concerns would doubtless be most keenly felt in our hard-pressed social services . furthermore , the welsh local government association stated that there must be a commitment that whatever the costs are , those costs are met , because it is legislation that is being led by the national assembly for wales . now , during evidence , the deputy minister , when asked about the reliance on a limited number of reporting of cases likely to happen and the potential for a degree of unknown costs stated : 'we are doing our very best to prepare to cover all eventualities that we can anticipate . ' but you could n't commit to a broad figure , instead telling us that : 'we have to rely on what the people who run those organisations are telling us . ' and : 'we have to measure it as we go along . ' given that devolved authorities need to plan their budgets for these changes , we only think it is fair for the welsh government to provide sufficient funding to alleviate the cost implications of this bill . now , while amendment 11 makes reference to costs borne by local authorities and health boards , i note that amendment 12 takes this further by including other devolved authorities that are not funded by welsh government . anticipating the deputy minister 's response that few under this category , if any at all , would be affected by the bill , we are pursuing a principle here , and it is agreement to the principle of providing sufficient funding that we are seeking from you as the deputy minister . now , these are just two examples of welsh government legislation to date that have been underfunded . the active travel ( wales ) act 2013 : last year , the economy , infrastructure and skills committee found that the wales annual spend on walking and cycling is half that of england 's and one sixth of holland 's . furthermore , the committee highlighted that the passing of the act put a requirement on local authorities to continuously improve active travel routes , but were constrained by the funding made available to them . the minister at the time announced a three-year funding settlement of £60 million . now , my local authority and other authorities that have done some monitoring on the active travel act—they simply were not awarded sufficient funding to actually allow the active travel act to become a meaningful piece of legislation , and the same goes with the well-being of future generations ( wales ) act 2015 . this month , the auditor general has raised concerns that the public services boards created under the act were limited in their work and impact due to the lack of dedicated funding . outside of the welsh government 's regional grant that can not be spent on projects , councils often contribute through officer time or facilities , but resources and capacity to support those psbs remain a key risk , as partners do n't have the capacity to take on more . the reason that i wanted these amendments placed in here is i genuinely do not believe that you 've even envisioned what , or even estimated the likely cost to be borne by the organisations , and certainly our local authorities and health boards , the impact this bill is going to have . lynne neagle am : thank you , janet . are there other members who would like to speak in this group , please ? no . okay . i call the deputy minister , then . julie morgan am : thank you , chair . i can understand that the member is concerned about the impact of this bill on public services , but you will see from the explanatory memorandum and from the raft of impact statements published with the bill that we 've done a thorough and extremely diligent job of considering the potential impacts of this bill before introduction . and as far as we 're aware , no other country has done more than us to consider the impacts of similar legislation , and also comprehensively prepared for implementation . we 've explored the published data , which is available from other countries , on the impact of measures they 've taken to prohibit the physical punishment of children . we 've also spoken to a range of stakeholders in ireland , new zealand and malta , who have legal systems similar to our own . and in these countries , there is no evidence that public services have been overwhelmed following law reform . and stakeholders have been clear when giving evidence to this committee that they do not consider there will be runaway costs , and i think we should trust their judgment on this . in fact , as this committee notes in its stage 1 report , those delivering services on the front line have said , without exception , that 'this bill will improve their ability to protect children living in wales because it will make the law clear . ' sally jenkins of the association of directors of social services said to this committee : 'in terms of thresholds for children ’ s services , we would not be anticipating a huge number of referrals to us . there may be a small number of referrals that come through . what we know from other nations is that it will peak and then settle . we recognise that ’ s likely to happen . ' that 's from the front line . jane randall , chair of the national independent safeguarding board wales , said : 'there 's no expectation that there 's going to be a huge increase in the number of referrals coming through to local authority social services , i think it would be dealt with within their existing resources . ' and dr rowena christmas , royal college of general practitioners , said : ' i ca n't see it 's going to lengthen consultations . i ca n't see that it 's going to increase the number of consultations , and i do n't think it 's going to increase the number of referrals i make to the health visitor or to social services , because if i was worried , i 'd make those referrals now regardless of the bill . ' i just want to say again that the bill is removing a defence to an offence of common assault , which has formed part of the common law of england and wales for a very long time . and social services already receive and investigate reports of children being assaulted , including from health and education , so it 's not a whole new area of costly activity for any of them . i do think that the evidence that you had at your committee did highlight those points . as i 've already pointed out when discussing group 2 amendments , we 're working with organisations to put in place arrangements to collect data about the possible impact on their services , and this will be analysed as part of the post-implementation review of the legislation . welsh government can consider with relevant organisations how best to manage any impact on workloads or resources and any cost implications . i can assure you that work to update the regulatory impact assessment has continued , and i 've asked officials to prepare a revised ria , as recommended at stage 2 , and i expect to share an updated ria with you in advance of stage 3 . serious consideration is being given on how to provide more detailed estimates of the unknown costs to public services arising from the bill , but i think you should be reassured by the evidence that was given , particularly to this committee , from the professionals at the front line . what the amendments are proposing is outside the normal funding arrangements that operate within government , and it 's not clear why , in the context of the evidence heard at stage i , such provisions are necessary . i 'm sure that members will agree that future governments need to be able to consider , within the context of the budget-setting process , what the priorities are , and these considerations would need to be made within the context at that time , for example taking into account any issues that there are—uk government actions , what happens in relation to brexit , or any other unforeseen impacts on the economy or welsh society . all those issues would have to be taken into account . furthermore , as is the case now , the national assembly for wales scrutinises the welsh government budget annually , so it would be able to make an argument for additional funding for public bodies , should it consider that this is required . i do think all the evidence has shown that we do not anticipate that there will be a huge increase of a demand for funding , so i urge members to reject these amendments , which i believe are unnecessary . janet finch-saunders am : chair , could i ask a question ? lynne neagle am : you can reply to the debate now , janet , yes . janet finch-saunders am : i 'd like to ask a question of the deputy minister . when we were taking evidence , at an earlier stage , i noticed that part of the stakeholder group—there was some liaison going on with social services departments across wales . now , we have 22 local authorities . at that time , the numbers mentioned were quite small—i think only a handful . what discussions have taken place with our local authorities in terms of their social services departments in terms of the lead , the cabinet members , or , indeed , the head of service ? i can speak from my own experiences , when going around my constituency , but when i 've spoken to some of the family support groups , and , indeed , the departments themselves , they are very concerned about the financial impact that this is going to have on the provision . they 're already overstretched , and they see this as another burden—primarily another financial burden . so , how much have you engaged with them ? julie morgan am : there 's been extensive engagement . we 've had meetings with the association of directors of social services , and they 're represented on all our groups , and we 're working very closely with them , because , of course , they represent all the local authorities . but i have to say , when i 've been going round and meeting lots of different groups , the first thing they say is , ' i 'm so glad that you 're doing this ' , and they have n't mentioned any financial implications . but , obviously , we will be very aware of—we are looking at any more evidence that comes up . janet finch-saunders am : okay . so , i 'll still move my amendments . i 'm disappointed , really . i was hoping to see some commitment to—this bill was going to go through , and it 's one that could be implemented fully , because sufficient resources were there . i 'm not convinced about that , and i know that other organisations are not also . so , i move my amendments . lynne neagle am : the question is that amendment 11 be agreed . does any member object ? [ objection . ] i therefore take a vote by show of hands . all those in favour . all those against . so , there voted two in favour , four against . amendment 11 is not agreed . janet , do you wish to proceed to a vote on amendment 12 ? janet finch-saunders am : i move . </s>
<s> summarize janet finch-saunders opinions on amendments 11 and 12 that relate to the duty to ensure sufficient funding . </s>  </s>
<s> how did the deputy minister respond to amendments 11 and 12 that relate to the duty to ensure sufficient funding ? </s>  </s>
<s> what was discussed in the meeting ? </s> grad c : hmm . testing channel two . grad e : two , two . two . oh . grad d : hello ? grad b : hmm ? yeah thank you . ok well , so ralf and tilman are here . professor f : ok . great . great . grad b : made it safely . professor f : so the what w we h have been doing i they would like us all to read these digits . but we do n't all read them but a couple people read them . uh , wan na give them all with german accents today or ? grad b : sure . ok and the way you do it is you just read the numbers not as uh each single , so just like i do it . phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : ok . first you read the transcript number . turn . grad d : ok , uh what 's professor f : ok . let 's be done with this . ok . this is ami , who and this is tilman and ralf . phd a : hi . uh - huh . nice to meet you . professor f : hi . ok . so we 're gon na try to finish by five so people who want to can go hear nancy chang 's talk , uh downstairs . and you guys are g giving talks on tomorrow and wednesday lunch times , right ? that 's great . ok so , do y do you know what we 're gon na do ? grad b : i thought two things uh we 'll introduce ourselves and what we do . and um we already talked with andreas , thilo and david and some lines of code were already written today and almost tested and just gon na say we have um again the recognizer to parser thing where we 're working on and that should be no problem and then that can be sort of developed uh as needed when we get enter the tourism domain . em we have talked this morning with the with tilman about the generator . and um there one of our diligent workers has to sort of volunteer to look over tilman 's shoulder while he is changing the grammars to english phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : because w we have we face two ways . either we do a syllable concatenating um grammar for the english generation which is sort of starting from scratch and doing it the easy way , or we simply adopt the ah um more in - depth um style that is implemented in the german system and um are then able not only to produce strings but also the syntactic parse uh not parse not the syntactic tree that is underneath in the syntactic structure which is the way we decided we were gon na go because a , it 's easier in the beginning phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : and um it does require some some knowledge of of those grammars and and and some ling linguistic background . but um it should n't be a problem for anyone . professor f : ok so that sounds good . johno , are you gon na have some time t to do that uh w with these guys ? grad e : sure . professor f : cuz y you 're the grammar maven . i mean it makes sense , grad e : yeah . professor f : does n't it ? yeah good . ok . so , i think that 's probably the the right way to do that . and an yeah , so i i actually wan na f to find out about it too , but i may not have time to get in . grad b : the the ultimate goal is that before they leave we we can run through the entire system input through output on at least one or two sample things . and um and by virtue of doing that then in this case johno will have acquired the knowledge of how to extend it . ad infinitum . when needed , if needed , when wanted and so forth . professor f : ok that sounds great . grad b : and um also um ralf has hooked up with david and you 're gon na continue either all through tonight or tomorrow on whatever to get the er parser interface working . they are thinning out and thickening out lattices and doing this kind of stuff to see what works best . grad d : mmm , yep . professor f : great . so , you guys enjoy your weekend ? phd a : yes , very much so . grad d : yeah , very much professor f : ok , before before you got put to work ? great . ok , so that 's sort of one branch is to get us caught up on what 's going on . also of course it would be really nice to know what the plans are , in addition to what 's sort of already in code . and we can d i dunno w w was there uh a time when we were set up to do that ? it probably will work better if we do it later in the week , after we actually understand uh better what 's going on . phd a : yeah . professor f : so when do you guys leave ? phd a : um we 're here through sunday , so all through friday would be fine . professor f : oh , ok , so ok , so so anyt we 'll find a time later in the week to uh get together and talk about your understanding of what smartkom plans are . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and how we can change them . phd a : yes . sure . grad b : should we already set a date for that ? might be beneficial while we 're all here . professor f : ok ? um what what does not work for me is thursday afternoon . i can do earlier in the day on thursday , or um most of the time on friday , not all . grad b : thursday morning sounds fine ? professor f : wha - but , johno , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : what are your constraints ? grad e : um thursday afternoon does n't work for me , but grad b : neither does thursday morning , no ? grad e : uh thursday morning should be fine . professor f : eleven ? eleven on thursday ? grad e : i was just thinking i w i will have leavened by eleven . professor f : right . right . this is then out of deference to our non - morning people . phd a : mm - hmm . ok . so at eleven ? thursday around eleven ? ok . professor f : yeah . and actually we can invite um andreas as well . grad b : uh he will be in washington , though . professor f : oh that 's true . he 's off off on his trip already . grad b : but um david is here and he 's actually knows everything about the smartkom recognizer . professor f : thilo . ok well yeah maybe we 'll see if david could make it . that would be good . grad b : ok so facing to to what we 've sort of been doing here um well for one thing we 're also using this room to collect data . phd a : yeah obviously . grad b : um um not this type of data , phd a : oh , ok . grad b : no not meeting data but sort of sort ah our version of a wizard experiment such not like the ones in munich but pretty close to it . phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : the major difference to the munich ones is that we do it via the telephone even though all the recording is done here and so it 's a sort of a computer call system that gives you tourist information phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : tells you how to get places . and it breaks halfway through the experiment and a human operator comes on . and part of that is sort of trying to find out whether people change their linguistic verbal behavior when first thinking they speak to a machine and then to a human . phd a : yeah . grad b : and we 're setting it up so that we can we hope to implant certain intentions in people . for example um we have first looked at a simple sentence that `` how do i get to the powder - tower ? `` ok so you have the castle of heidelberg and there is a tower and it 's called powder - tower . phd a : oh , ok . yeah . grad b : and um so what will you parse out of that sentence ? probably something that we specified in m - three - l , that is @ @ { comment } `` action go to whatever domain , object whatever powder - tower `` . and maybe some model will tell us , some gps module , in the mobile scenario where the person is at the moment . and um we 've sort of gone through that once before in the deep mail project and we noticed that first of all what are i should 've brought some slides , but what our so here 's the tower . think of this as a two - dimensional representation of the tower . and our system led people here , to a point where they were facing a wall in front of the tower . there is no entrance there , but it just happens to be the closest point of the road network to the geometric center because that 's how the algorithm works . so we took out that part of the road network as a hack and then it found actually the way to the entrance . which was now the closest point of the road network to phd a : yeah . grad b : ok , geometric center . but what we actually observed in heidelberg is that most people when they want to go there they actually do n't want to enter , because it 's not really interesting . they wan na go to a completely different point where they can look at it and take a picture . phd a : oh , ok . yeah . grad b : and so what uh uh a s you s let 's say a simple parse from a s from an utterance wo n't really give us is what the person actually wants . does he wan na go there to see it ? does he wan na go there now ? later ? how does the person wan na go there ? is that person more likely to want to walk there ? walk a scenic route ? and so forth . there are all kinds of decisions that we have identified in terms of getting to places and in terms of finding information about things . and we are constructing and then we 've identified more or less the extra - linguistic parameters that may f play a role . information related to the user and information related to the situation . and we also want to look closely on the linguistic information that what we can get from the utterance . that 's part of why we implant these intentions in the data collection to see whether people actually phrase things differently whether they want to enter in order to buy something or whether they just wan na go there to look at it . and um so the idea is to construct uh um suitable interfaces and a belief - net for a module that actually tries to guess what the underlying intention was . and then enrich or augment the m - three - l structures with what it thought what more it sort of got out of that utterance . so if it can make a good suggestion , `` hey ! `` you know , `` that person does n't wan na enter . that person just wants to take a picture , `` cuz he just bought film , or `` that person wants to enter because he discussed the admission fee before `` . or `` that person wants to enter because he wants to buy something and that you usually do inside of buildings `` and so forth . these ah these types of uh these bits of additional information are going to be embedded into the m - three - l structure in an sort of subfield that we have reserved . and if the action planner does something with it , great . if not you know , then that 's also something um that we ca n't really at least we { comment } want to offer the extra information . we do n't really um we 're not too worried . phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : i mean t s ultimately if you have if you can offer that information , somebody 's gon na s do something with it sooner or later . that 's sort of part of our belief . grad e : what was he saying ? grad b : um , for example , right now i know the gis from email is not able to calculate these viewpoints . so that 's a functionality that does n't exist yet to do that dynamically , phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : but if we can offer it that distinction , maybe somebody will go ahead and implement it . surely nobody 's gon na go ahead and implement it if it 's never gon na be used , so . what have i forgotten about ? oh yeah , how we do it , professor f : well th uh grad b : yeah that 's the professor f : no no . it 's a good time to pause . i s i see questions on peoples ' faces , so why do n't let 's let 's let 's hear phd a : well the obvious one would be if if you envision this as a module within smartkom , where exactly would that sit ? that 's the d grad b : um so far i 've thought of it as sort of adding it onto the modeler knowledge module . phd a : ok , yeah . grad b : so this is one that already adds additional information to the phd a : makes perfect sense . yes . grad d : hmm , ah . grad b : but it could sit anywhere in the attention - recognition i mean basically this is what attention - recognition literally sort of can phd a : well it 's supposed to do . yeah professor f : that 's what it should do . phd a : yeah . professor f : right , phd a : yeah . professor f : yeah . grad b : yeah . phd a : well f from my understanding of what the people at phillips were originally trying to do does n't seem to quite fit into smartkom currently so what they 're really doing right now is only selecting among the alternatives , the hypotheses that they 're given enriched by the domain knowledge and the um discourse modeler and so on . grad b : yeah . phd a : so if if this is additional information that could be merged in by them . grad b : yeah . phd a : and then it would be available to action planning and and others . grad b : yeah . the professor f : let 's let 's that w ok that was one question . is there other other things that cuz we wan na not pa - pass over any you know , questions or concerns that you have . phd a : well there 're there 're two levels of of giving an answer and i guess on both levels i do n't have any um further questions . grad d : mmm . mmm . phd a : uh the the two levels will be as far as i 'm concerned as uh standing here for the generation module and the other is is my understanding of what smartkom uh is supposed to be professor f : right . phd a : and i i think that fits in perfectly professor f : so well , let me let me s expand on that a little bit from the point of view of the generation . phd a : yeah . professor f : so the idea is that we 've actually got this all laid out an and we could show it to you ig um robert did n't bring it today but there 's a a belief - net which is there 's a first cut at a belief - net that that does n't it is n't fully uh instantiated , and in particular some of the the combination rules and ways of getting the the conditional probabilities are n't there . but we believe that we have laid out the fundamental decisions in this little space phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and the things that influence them . so one of the decisions is what we call this ave thing . do you want to um access , view or enter a thing . so that 's a a discrete decision . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : there are only three possibilities and the uh what one would like is for this uh , knowledge modeling module to add which of those it is and give it to the planner . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : but , uh th the current design suggests that if it seems to be an important decision and if the belief - net is equivocal so that it does n't say that one of these is much more probable than the other , then an option is to go back and ask for the information you want . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : alright ? now there are two ways one can go a imagine doing that . for the debugging we 'll probably just have a a drop - down menu and the while you 're debugging you will just ok . but for a full system , then one might very well formulate a query , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : give it to the dialogue planner and say this , you know ar are you know you are you planning to enter ? or whatever it whatever that might be . so that 's under that model then , there would be a uh um a loop in which this thing would formulate a query , presumably give it to you . that would get expressed and then hopefully you know , you 'd get an answer back . and that would of course the answer would have to be parsed . grad d : mmm . yep . professor f : right and ok so , th that uh , we probably wo n't do this early on , because the current focus is more on the decision making and stuff like that . but while we 're on the subject i just wanted to give you a sort of head 's up that it could be that some months from now we said `` ok we 're now ready to try to close that loop `` in terms of querying about some of these decisions . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yep . so my suggestion then is that you um look into the currently ongoing discussion about how the action plans are supposed to look like . and they 're currently um agreeing or or in the process of agreeing on an x m l - ification of um something like a state - transition network of how dialogues would proceed . and the these um transition networks uh will be what the action planner interprets in a sense . professor f : hmm . d did you know this robert ? grad b : uh michael is doing that , right ? phd a : well uh marcus lerkult is actually implementing that stuff and marcus and michael together are um leading the discussion there , yeah . professor f : so we ha we have to get in on that . grad b : mm - hmm . professor f : because um partly those are like x - schemas . phd a : definitely . professor f : the transition diagrams . and it may be that that um we should early on make sure that they have the flexibility that we need . grad b : hmm . but they uh have i understood this right ? they they govern more or less the the dialogue behavior or the action phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : it 's not really what you do with the content of the dialogue but it 's so , i mean there is this this this nice interf grad d : uh , no , it 's it 's also a quantrant uh uh grad b : i is it professor f : so there 's ac so there th the word `` action `` , ok , is is what 's ambiguous here . grad d : i think . hmm . professor f : so , um one thing is there 's an actual planner that tells the person in the tourist domain now , per tells the person how to go , `` first go here , grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : first go there uh , you know , take a bus `` , whatever it is . so that 's that form of planning , and action , and a route planner and gis , all sort of stuff . uh but i think that is n't what you mean . phd a : no . no , in smartkom terminology that 's um called a function that 's modeled by a function modeler . and it 's th that 's completely um encapsulated from th the dialogue system . that 's simply a functionality that you give data as in a query and then you get back from that mmm , a functioning model um which might be a planner or a vcr or whatever . um some result and that 's then then used . professor f : well , ok , so that 's what i thought . so action he action here means dia uh speech ac uh you know dialogue act . phd a : yeah , yeah . yeah , in that in that sense yes , dialogue act , professor f : yeah . phd a : yeah . professor f : um , i think tha i think it 's not going to i think that 's not going to be good enough . i i don what uh what i meant by that . so i think the idea of having a , you know , transition diagram for the grammar of conversations is a good idea . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : ok ? and i think that we do hav definitely have to get in on it and find out ok . but i think that um when so , when you get to the tourist domain it 's not just an information retrieval system . phd a : mm - hmm . clearly . yes . professor f : right ? so this i this is where i think this people are gon na have to think this through a bit more carefully . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : so , if it 's only like in in the in the film and t v thing , ok , you can do this . and you just get information and give it to people . but what happens when you actually get them moving and so forth and so on uh , y y your i d i think the notion of this as a self contained uh module you know th the functional module that that interacts with with where the tourism g stuff is going { comment } probably is too restrictive . now i dunno how much people have thought ahead to the tourist domain in this phd a : probably not enough , i mean an another uh more basic point there is that the current um tasks and therefore th the concepts in this ac what 's called the action plan and what 's really the dialogue manager . um is based on slots that have to be filled and the um kind of values in these slots would be fixed things like the a time or a movie title or something like this professor f : mm - hmm . right . phd a : whereas in the a um tourist domain it might be an entire route . set - based , or even very complex structured information in these slots professor f : indeed . right . phd a : and i 'm not sure if if complex slots of that type are really um being taken into consideration . so that 's that 's really something we professor f : could you could you put a message into the right place to see if we can at least ask that question ? phd a : mm - hmm . i mean nothing 's being completely settled there grad b : rea yep phd a : so this is really an ongoing discussion grad b : mm - hmm phd a : and that 's grad b : yeah and um it might actually ok ah also because um again in in deep map we have faced and implemented those problems once already phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : maybe we can even shuffle some know how from there to to markus and michael . and um mmm you do n't know ok th i 'll i 'll talk to michael it 's what i do anyway . who how far is the uh the the m - three - l specification for for the la natural language input gone on the the uh i have n't seen anything for the uh tourist path domain . grad d : yeah , it 's it 's not defined yet . grad b : and um you are probably also involved in that , grad d : um yeah . grad b : right ? uh together with the usual gang , um petra and jan grad d : mmm . yeah , there 's a meeting next next week i think grad b : ok because that 's those are the i think the the true key issues is how does the whatever comes out of the language input pipeline look like and then what the action planner does with it and how that is uh specified . i did n't think of the internal working of the uh the action planner and the language uh the function model as sort of relevant . because what what they take is sort of this this fixed representation of a of an intention . phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : and that can be as detailed or as crude as you want it to be . but um the internal workings of of the whether you know there 're dialogue action planners that work with belief - nets that are action planners that work with you know state automata . so that should n't really matter too much . i mean it does matter because it does have to keep track of you we are on part six of r a route that consists of eight steps and so forth phd a : right . professor f : yeah , th there there i think there are a lot of reasons why it matters . ok , so that uh , for example , the i it 's the action planner is going to take some spec and s make some suggestions about what the user should do . what the user says after that is going to be very much caught up with what the action planner told it . if the if the parser and the language end does n't know what the person 's been told ok th it 's you 're making your life much more difficult than it has to be . grad b : yeah . professor f : right ? so if someone says the best t to uh go there is by taxi , let 's say . now the planner comes out and says you wan na get there fast , take a taxi . ok . and the language end does n't know that . ok , there 's all sorts of dialogues that wo n't make any sense which would be just fine . grad b : yeah . phd a : that would b but that i think that that uh point has been realized and it 's it 's not really um been defined yet but there 's gon na be some kind of feedback and input from uh the action planner into all the analysis modules , telling them what to expect and what the current state of the discourse is . beyond what 's currently being implemented which is just word lists . professor f : yeah , but this is not the st this is not just the state of the discourse . grad b : mm - hmm . phd a : of of special interest . professor f : this is actually the state of the plan . that 's why phd a : yes , yes , mm - hmm yeah . grad b : mm - hmm . professor f : ok so it z and s uh , it 's great if people are already taking that into account . but one would have t have to see see the details . phd a : the specifics are n't really there yet . yes . so , there 's work to do there . professor f : yeah . so anyway , robert , that 's why i was thinking that grad b : mm - hmm . professor f : um i think you 're gon na need we talked about this several times that that the the input end is gon na need a fair amount of feedback from the planning end . in in one of these things which are are much more continuous than the just the dialogue over movies and stuff . phd a : yeah . and even on on a more basic level the the action planner actually needs to be able to have um an expressive power that can deal with these structures . and not just um say um um the dialogue um will consist of ten possible states and th these states really are fixed in in a certain sense . you have to professor f : would there be any chance of getting the terminology changed so that the dialogue planner was called a `` dialogue planner `` ? because there 's this other thing the o there 's this other thing in in the tourist domain which is gon na be a route planner phd a : that 'd be nice . professor f : or it 's really gon na be an action planner . and { comment } i it phd a : it oughta be called a a dialogue manager . cuz that 's what everybody else calls it . professor f : i would think , yeah . phd a : yeah . professor f : huh ? so , s so what would happen if we sent a note saying `` gee we 've talked about this and could n't we change this uh th the whole word ? `` i have no idea how complicated these things are . grad b : probably close to impossible . phd a : depends on who you talk to how . we 'll see . i 'll go check , cause i completely agree . yeah , and i think this is just for historical reasons within uh , the preparation phase of the project and not because somebody actually believes it ought to be action planner . so if there is resistance against changing it , that 's just because `` oh , we do n't want to change things . `` that that not deep reason professor f : ok , anyway . i if if that c in persists then we 're gon na need another term . for the thing that actually does the planning of the uh routes and whatever we are doing for the tourist . grad b : that 's external services . professor f : yeah , but that 's not g eh tha that ha has all the wrong connotations . it 's it sounds like it 's you know stand alone . it does n't interact , it does n't that 's why i 'm saying . i think you ca n't it 's fine for looking up when t you know when the show 's on tv . you go to th but i i i i think it 's really really wrong headed for something that you that has a lot of state , it 's gon na interact co in a complicated way with the uh understanding parts . grad b : yeah . yeah i think just the the spatial planner and the route planner i showed you once the interac action between them among them in the deep map system professor f : right . grad b : so a printout of the communication between those two fills up i do n't know how many pages and that 's just part of how do i get to one place . it 's really insane . and uh but um so this is um definitely a good point to get uh michael into the discussion . or to enter his discussion , actually . phd a : yeah , marcus . grad b : that 's the way around . markus phd a : wh - where 's ? grad b : is he new in the in the ? phd a : yeah , he 's he started um i think january . grad d : yeah . phd a : and he 's gon na be responsible for the implementation of this action planner . dialogue manager . grad b : is he gon na continue with the old uh thing ? phd a : no , no he 's completely gon na rewrite everything . in java . ok so that 's interesting . grad b : yes i was just that 's my next question whether we 're we 're gon na stick to prolog or not . phd a : no . no , that 's gon na be phased out . professor f : yeah . grad b : ok but i do think the the function modeling concept has a certain makes sense in a in a certain light phd a : yeah . grad b : because the action planner should not be or the dialogue manager in that case should not um w have to worry about whether it 's interfacing with um something that does route planning in this way or that way phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : i i totally agree . sure . yeah i i agree . there is there 's a logic to dialogue which which is is separable . i yeah . grad b : and it cant sort of formulate its what it wants in a in a rather a abstract uh way , you know f `` find me a good route for this . `` professor f : mm - hmm . grad b : it does n't really have to worry ab how route planner a or how route planner b actually wants it . so this is seemed like a good idea . in the beginning . professor f : it 's tricky . it 's tricky because one could well imagine i think it will turn out to be the case that uh , this thing we 're talking about , th the extended n uh knowledge modeler will fill in some parameters about what the person wants . one could well imagine that the next thing that 's trying to fill out the detailed uh , route planning , let 's say , will also have questions that it would like to ask the user . you could well imagine you get to a point where it 's got a a choice to make and it just does n't know something . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and so y you would like it t also be able to uh formulate a query . and to run that back through uh . the dialogue manager and to the output module and back around . and a i a a good design would would allow that to happen . grad b : a lot of , yeah professor f : if if you know if if you ca n't make it happen then you you do your best . phd a : yeah but that does n't necessarily contradict um an architecture where there really is a pers a def well - defined interface . and and professor f : i totally agree . but but what it nee but th what the point is the in that case the dialogue manager is sort of event driven . so the dialogue manager may think it 's in a dialogue state of one sort , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and this one of these planning modules comes along and says `` hey , right now we need to ask a question `` . so that forces the dialogue manager to change state . phd a : sure , professor f : it could be y phd a : ye yeah i i think that 's that 's the um concept that people have , professor f : yeah , yeah it it phd a : and and the the underlying idea of course is that there is something like kernel modules with kernel functionality that you can plug uh certain applications like tourist information or um the home scenario with uh controlling a vcr and so on . and then extend it to an arbitrary number of applications eventually . so would n't that 's an additional reason to have this well - defined interface and keep these things like uh tourist information external . professor f : oh , yeah , yeah . phd a : and then call it external services . but of course the the more complex grad b : yeah , there is another philosophical issue that i think you know you can evade but , at at least it makes sense to me that sooner or later uh a service is gon na come and describe itself to you . and that 's sort of what srini is working on in in in the daml uh project where um you you find a gis about that gives you information on berkeley , phd a : yeah . grad b : and it 's it 's gon na be there and tell you what it can do and how it wants to do things . and so you can actually interface to such a system without ever having met it before and the function modeler and a self - description of the um external service haggle it out and you can use the same language core , understanding core to interface with planner - a , planner - b , planner - c and so forth . which is , you know , uh uh utopian completely utopian at the moment , but slowly , you know , getting into the realm of the uh contingent . but we are facing of course much more um realistic problems . and language input for example , is of course uh crucial you know also when you do the sort of deep understanding analysis that we envision . um then of course , the uh um , you know what is it poverty of the stimulus , yet the m uh the less we get of that the better . and um so we we 're thinking , for example how much syntactic analysis actually happens already in the parser . and whether one could interface to that potentially grad d : hmm . yeah , are there currently is uh no syntactic analysis but in the next release there will be some . unless professor f : how 's it grad d : and it 's um uh you can access this professor f : s so uh y we we looked at the e current pattern matching thing . and as you say it 's just a surface pattern matcher . uh , so what are what are the plans roughly ? grad d : um it 's to to integrate and syntactic analysis . and um add some more features like segmentation . so then an utter more than one utterance is there um there 's often uh pause between it and a segmentation occurs . um professor f : so , the um so the idea is to uh have a pa y y a particular do you have a particular parser in mind ? is it uh partic d i mean have you thought through ? is it an hpsg parser ? is it a whatever ? grad d : no no it 's uh i think it 's it 's totally complicated for it 's just one one person and so i have to keep the professor f : oh , you have to do it . you have to do it , grad d : yeah , professor f : yeah . grad d : ah and so things must be simpler professor f : i see , grad d : but uh , miel syntactic analysis with um finite state transducers . professor f : so but the people at d f yeah . people at dfki have written a fair number of parsers . other you know , people over the years . uh have written various parsers at dfki . none of them are suitable ? i i i d i 'm asking . i do n't know . grad d : yeah , uh the problem is th that it has to be very fast because um if you want to for more than one path anywhere what 's in the latches from the speech recognizer professor f : mm - hmm . grad d : so it 's speed is crucial . uh and they are not fast enough . professor f : mm - hmm . grad d : and they also have to be very robust . cuz of um speech recognition errors and professor f : ok . so , um so there was a chunk parser in verbmobil , that was one of the uh branchers . you know they d th i c there were these various uh , competing uh syntax modules . and i know one of them was a chunk parser and i do n't remember who did that . grad b : a alan ? grad d : i think it 's that might , at tuebingen i thought . professor f : yeah i d i do n't remember . grad d : was do you know something about that ? phd a : tubingen was at least involved in putting the chunks together grad d : in tub - at phd a : i ca n't quite recall whether they actually produced the chunks in the first place . professor f : uh . i see . yeah , that 's right . grad d : oh from from stuttgart , professor f : there w that 's right . they w they had there were this was done with a two phase thing , where { comment } the chunk parser itself was pretty stupid grad d : yeah , also professor f : and then there was a kind of trying to fit them together that h used more context . phd a : right . yeah professor f : right ? phd a : well you s and and especially you did some some um , l um was a learning - based approach which learned from a big corpus of of trees . grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : right . phd a : and yes the it the chunk parser was a finite - state machine that um mark light originally w worked on in while he was in tuebingen professor f : right . phd a : and then somebody else in tuebingen picked that up . so it was done in tuebingen , yeah . definitely . professor f : but is that the kind of thing y it sounds like the kind of thing that you were thinking of . phd a : yeah i guess it 's similar . grad d : yeah . yeah that 's in this direction , yes professor f : what ? grad d : yeah , it 's in in this direction . grad b : the from michael strube , i 've heard very good stuff about the chunk parser that is done by forwiss , uh , which is in embassy doing the parsing . phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : so this is sort of came as a surprise to me that you know , embassy s { comment } is featuring a nice parser but it 's what i hear . one could also look at that and see whether there is some synergy possible . grad d : mm - hmm , yeah , it would be very interesting , mm - hmm . mmm , yeah . grad b : and they 're doing chunk parsing and it 's uh i i can give you the names of the people who do it there . but um . then there is of course more ways of parsing things . professor f : of course . but but uh given th the constraints , that you want it to be small and fast and so forth , my guess is you 're probably into some kind of chunk parsing . and uh i 'm not a big believer in this um statistical you know , cleaning up uh it that seems to me kind of a last resort if uh you ca n't do it any other way . uh but i dunno . it may i i may be that 's what you guys finally decide do . uh . and have you looked uh just again for context grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : there is this this one that they did at sri some years ago fastus ? a grad d : yeah , i 've i 've looked at it but but it 's no not much uh information available . i found , but it 's also finite - state transducers , i thought . professor f : it is . yeah . i mean it 's it was pretty ambitious . and of course it was english oriented , grad d : yeah , and and purely finite - state transducers are not so good for german since there 's um professor f : um w right . grad d : the word order is is uh not fixed professor f : yeah , i guess that 's the point is is all the morphology and stuff . and english is all th all word order . and it makes a lot more sense . grad d : yeah . professor f : and e yeah , ok . good point . so in in in german you 've got uh most of this done with grad d : mm - hmm . also it 's uh it 's um yes , uh the um choice between uh this processing and that processing and my template matcher . professor f : right . right . so what about um did y like morfix ? a a e y you 've got stemmers ? or is that something that grad d : um , yeah but it 's all in the in the lexicon . so it 's professor f : but did you have that ? grad d : yeah th the information is available . professor f : ok . i see . so , but grad d : so professor f : so y you just connect to the lexicon and uh at least for german you have all all of the uh the stemming information . grad d : yeah , we can , oh yeah . we have knowledge bases from from verbmobil system we can use and so . professor f : right . but it it it does n't look like i you 're using it . i did n't n see it being used in the current template uh parser . i i did n't see any uh of course we l actually only looked at the english . grad d : it um professor f : did we look at the german ? i do n't remember . grad d : yeah , but but it 's used for for stem forms . professor f : so w wha phd a : n well i think i think there 's some misunderstanding here it 's morphix is not used on - line . grad d : oh , ok . phd a : s so the lexicon might be derived by morphix grad d : what ? phd a : but what what 's happening on - line is just um um a a retrieval from the lexicon which would give all the stemming information professor f : right . right . phd a : so it would be a full foreign lexicon . professor f : and that 's what you have . grad b : we threw out all the forms . professor f : what uh i did n't reme grad b : we threw out all the forms because , you know , english , well professor f : oh ok , so it yeah , s s i thought i 'd grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : so in german then you actually do case matching and things like in the in the pattern matcher or not ? grad d : um not yet but it 's planned to do that . professor f : ok . cuz i r i did n't reme i did n't think i saw it . have we looked at the german ? oh , i haven yeah that 's getting it from the lexicon is just fine . phd a : sure , right . grad d : oh yes . professor f : yeah , yeah , yeah . no problem with that . um yeah and here 's the case where the english and the german might really be significantly different . in terms of if you 're trying to build some fast parser and so forth and you really might wan na do it in a significantly different way . i do n't know . so you 've you guys have looked at this ? also ? in terms of you know , w if you 're doing this for english as well as german um do you think now that it would be this doing it similarly ? grad d : um yeah , it 's um i think it 's um yes , it 's it 's um possible to to do list processing . and maybe this is um more adequate for english and in german um set processing is used . maybe yeah . some extensions uh have to be made . for for a english version professor f : mmm . ok . interesting . not easy . grad b : well there 's m i 'm sure there 's gon na be more discussion on that after your talk . grad d : mm - hmm , grad b : we 're just gon na foreshadow what we saw that grad d : yeah . professor f : right . right . grad b : and um professor f : now actually , um are you guys free at five ? or do you have to go somewhere at five o ' clock tonight ? w in ten minutes ? grad d : ah phd a : uh uh i think we 're expect grad d : mmm . no . oder there was an talk ? phd a : yeah , there there 's the um practice talk . grad d : uh mmm , yeah . professor f : great . so you 're going to that . phd a : yeah , that that 's what we were planning to do . professor f : that 's good , because that will uh tell you a fair amount about the form of semantic construction grammar that we 're using . phd a : yeah . mm - hmm . professor f : so so i th i think that probably as good an introduction as you 'll get . uh to the form of of uh conceptual grammar that that w we have in mind for this . grad d : mmm , ah . professor f : it wo n't talk particularly about how that relates to what uh robert was saying at the beginning . but let me give you a very short version of this . so we talked about the fact that there 're going to be a certain number of decisions that you want the knowledge modeler to make , that will be then fed to the function module , that does uh , route planning . it 's called the `` route planner `` or something . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : so there are these decisions . and then one half of this we talked about at little bit is how if you had the right information , if you knew something about what was said and about th the something about was the agent a tourist or a native or a business person or uh young or old , whatever . that information , and also about the uh , what we 're calling `` the entity `` , is it a castle , is it a bank ? is it a s town square , is it a statue ? whatever . so all that kind of information could be combined into decision networks and give you decisions . but the other half of the problem is how would you get that kind of information from the parsed input ? so , um so what you might try to do is just build more templates , saying uh we 're trying to build a templ you know build a template that w uh somehow would capture the fact that he wants to take a picture . ok ? and and we could you could do this . and it 's a small enough domain that probably you , you know ok . you could do this . but uh from our point of view this is also a research project and there are a couple of people not here for various reasons who are doing doctoral dissertations on this , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and the idea that we 're really after is a very deep semantics based on cognitive linguistics and the notion that there are a relatively small number of primitive conceptual schemas that characterize a lot of activity . so a typical one in this formulation is a container . so this is a static thing . and the notion is that all sorts of physical situations are characterized in terms of containers . going in and out the portals and con ok . but also , importantly for lakoff and these guys is all sorts of metaphorical things are also characterized this way . you get in trouble and you know et cetera and so s so , what we 're really trying to do is to map from the discourse to the conceptual semantics level . and from there to the appropriate decisions . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : so another one of these primitive , what are called `` image schemas `` , is uh goal seeking . so this a notion of a source , path , goal , trajector , possibly obstacles . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and the idea is this is another conceptual primitive . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and that all sorts of things , particularly in the tourist domain , can be represented in terms of uh source , path and goal . so the idea would be could we build an analyser that would take an utterance and say `` aha ! th this utterance is talking about an attempt to reach a goal . the goal is this , the pers the , uh traveller is that , uh the sor w where we are at now is is this , they 've mentioned possible obstacles , et cetera . `` so th the and this is an again attempt to get very wide coverage . so if you can do this , then the notion would be that across a very large range of domains , you could use this deep conceptual basis as the interface . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor f : and then , uh the processing of that , both on the input end , recognizing that certain words in a language talk about containers or goals , et cetera , and on the output end , given this kind of information , you can then uh make decisions about what actions to take . provides , they claim , a very powerful , general notion of deep semantics . so that 's what we 're really doing . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and nancy is going to her talk is going to be not about using this in applications , but about modeling how children might learn this kind of uh deep semantic grammar . phd a : mm - hmm . yep , yep . and how do you envision um the the um this deep semantic to be worked with . would it be highly ambiguous if and then there would be another module that takes that um highly underspecified deep semantic construction and map it onto the current context to find out what the person really was talking about in that context . or or a professor f : well that 's that 's that 's where the belief - net comes in . so th the idea is , let 's take this business about going to the powder - tower . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : so part of what you 'll get out of this will be the fact tha w if it works right , ok , that this is an agent that wants to go to this place and that 's their goal phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and there will be additional situational information . phd a : oh , ok . professor f : uh , ok , part of it comes from the ontology . the tower is this kind of object . phd a : mm - hmm . yeah , ok . professor f : part of it comes from the user model . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and the idea of the belief - net is it combines the information from the dialogue which comes across in this general way , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : you know this is a this is a goal seeking behavior , along with specific information from the ontology about the kinds of objects involved phd a : yeah ok , yeah , yep yep yep yep professor f : and about the situation about `` is it raining ? `` i do n't know . whatever it is . and so that 's the belief - net that we 've laid out . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and so th the coupling to the situation comes in this model from , at th at th at the belief - net , combining evidence from the dialogue with the ontology with the situation . phd a : yeah . professor f : but nancy is n't gon na talk about that , phd a : yeah , oh yeah , i see , professor f : just about the um phd a : yeah yeah , really . grad b : first steps . professor f : right . the the construction grammar . grad b : and she 's gon na start in a minute . professor f : in a minute . grad d : ah , ok . phd g : is it i in , then , your place , in five five - a ? </s>
<s> summarize what was said on smartkom architecture </s> phd a : yeah . grad b : and so what uh uh a s you s let 's say a simple parse from a s from an utterance wo n't really give us is what the person actually wants . does he wan na go there to see it ? does he wan na go there now ? later ? how does the person wan na go there ? is that person more likely to want to walk there ? walk a scenic route ? and so forth . there are all kinds of decisions that we have identified in terms of getting to places and in terms of finding information about things . and we are constructing and then we 've identified more or less the extra - linguistic parameters that may f play a role . information related to the user and information related to the situation . and we also want to look closely on the linguistic information that what we can get from the utterance . that 's part of why we implant these intentions in the data collection to see whether people actually phrase things differently whether they want to enter in order to buy something or whether they just wan na go there to look at it . and um so the idea is to construct uh um suitable interfaces and a belief - net for a module that actually tries to guess what the underlying intention was . and then enrich or augment the m - three - l structures with what it thought what more it sort of got out of that utterance . so if it can make a good suggestion , `` hey ! `` you know , `` that person does n't wan na enter . that person just wants to take a picture , `` cuz he just bought film , or `` that person wants to enter because he discussed the admission fee before `` . or `` that person wants to enter because he wants to buy something and that you usually do inside of buildings `` and so forth . these ah these types of uh these bits of additional information are going to be embedded into the m - three - l structure in an sort of subfield that we have reserved . and if the action planner does something with it , great . if not you know , then that 's also something um that we ca n't really at least we { comment } want to offer the extra information . we do n't really um we 're not too worried . phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : i mean t s ultimately if you have if you can offer that information , somebody 's gon na s do something with it sooner or later . that 's sort of part of our belief . grad e : what was he saying ? grad b : um , for example , right now i know the gis from email is not able to calculate these viewpoints . so that 's a functionality that does n't exist yet to do that dynamically , phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : but if we can offer it that distinction , maybe somebody will go ahead and implement it . surely nobody 's gon na go ahead and implement it if it 's never gon na be used , so . what have i forgotten about ? oh yeah , how we do it , professor f : well th uh grad b : yeah that 's the professor f : no no . it 's a good time to pause . i s i see questions on peoples ' faces , so why do n't let 's let 's let 's hear phd a : well the obvious one would be if if you envision this as a module within smartkom , where exactly would that sit ? that 's the d grad b : um so far i 've thought of it as sort of adding it onto the modeler knowledge module . phd a : ok , yeah . grad b : so this is one that already adds additional information to the phd a : makes perfect sense . yes . grad d : hmm , ah . grad b : but it could sit anywhere in the attention - recognition i mean basically this is what attention - recognition literally sort of can phd a : well it 's supposed to do . yeah professor f : that 's what it should do . phd a : yeah . professor f : right , phd a : yeah . professor f : yeah . grad b : yeah . phd a : well f from my understanding of what the people at phillips were originally trying to do does n't seem to quite fit into smartkom currently so what they 're really doing right now is only selecting among the alternatives , the hypotheses that they 're given enriched by the domain knowledge and the um discourse modeler and so on . grad b : yeah . phd a : so if if this is additional information that could be merged in by them . grad b : yeah . phd a : and then it would be available to action planning and and others . grad b : yeah . the professor f : let 's let 's that w ok that was one question . is there other other things that cuz we wan na not pa - pass over any you know , questions or concerns that you have . phd a : well there 're there 're two levels of of giving an answer and i guess on both levels i do n't have any um further questions . grad d : mmm . mmm . phd a : uh the the two levels will be as far as i 'm concerned as uh standing here for the generation module and the other is is my understanding of what smartkom uh is supposed to be professor f : right . phd a : and i i think that fits in perfectly professor f : so well , let me let me s expand on that a little bit from the point of view of the generation . phd a : yeah . professor f : so the idea is that we 've actually got this all laid out an and we could show it to you ig um robert did n't bring it today but there 's a a belief - net which is there 's a first cut at a belief - net that that does n't it is n't fully uh instantiated , and in particular some of the the combination rules and ways of getting the the conditional probabilities are n't there . but we believe that we have laid out the fundamental decisions in this little space phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and the things that influence them . so one of the decisions is what we call this ave thing . do you want to um access , view or enter a thing . so that 's a a discrete decision . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : there are only three possibilities and the uh what one would like is for this uh , knowledge modeling module to add which of those it is and give it to the planner . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : but , uh th the current design suggests that if it seems to be an important decision and if the belief - net is equivocal so that it does n't say that one of these is much more probable than the other , then an option is to go back and ask for the information you want . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : alright ? now there are two ways one can go a imagine doing that . for the debugging we 'll probably just have a a drop - down menu and the while you 're debugging you will just ok . but for a full system , then one might very well formulate a query , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : give it to the dialogue planner and say this , you know ar are you know you are you planning to enter ? or whatever it whatever that might be . so that 's under that model then , there would be a uh um a loop in which this thing would formulate a query , presumably give it to you . that would get expressed and then hopefully you know , you 'd get an answer back . and that would of course the answer would have to be parsed . grad d : mmm . yep . professor f : right and ok so , th that uh , we probably wo n't do this early on , because the current focus is more on the decision making and stuff like that . but while we 're on the subject i just wanted to give you a sort of head 's up that it could be that some months from now we said `` ok we 're now ready to try to close that loop `` in terms of querying about some of these decisions . </s>
<s> what were the modules for the smartkom . </s> phd a : yeah . professor f : so the idea is that we 've actually got this all laid out an and we could show it to you ig um robert did n't bring it today but there 's a a belief - net which is there 's a first cut at a belief - net that that does n't it is n't fully uh instantiated , and in particular some of the the combination rules and ways of getting the the conditional probabilities are n't there . but we believe that we have laid out the fundamental decisions in this little space phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : and the things that influence them . so one of the decisions is what we call this ave thing . do you want to um access , view or enter a thing . so that 's a a discrete decision . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : there are only three possibilities and the uh what one would like is for this uh , knowledge modeling module to add which of those it is and give it to the planner . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : but , uh th the current design suggests that if it seems to be an important decision and if the belief - net is equivocal so that it does n't say that one of these is much more probable than the other , then an option is to go back and ask for the information you want . phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : alright ? now there are two ways one can go a imagine doing that . for the debugging we 'll probably just have a a drop - down menu and the while you 're debugging you will just ok . but for a full system , then one might very well formulate a query , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : give it to the dialogue planner and say this , you know ar are you know you are you planning to enter ? or whatever it whatever that might be . so that 's under that model then , there would be a uh um a loop in which this thing would formulate a query , presumably give it to you . that would get expressed and then hopefully you know , you 'd get an answer back . and that would of course the answer would have to be parsed . grad d : mmm . yep . professor f : right and ok so , th that uh , we probably wo n't do this early on , because the current focus is more on the decision making and stuff like that . but while we 're on the subject i just wanted to give you a sort of head 's up that it could be that some months from now we said `` ok we 're now ready to try to close that loop `` in terms of querying about some of these decisions . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yep . so my suggestion then is that you um look into the currently ongoing discussion about how the action plans are supposed to look like . and they 're currently um agreeing or or in the process of agreeing on an x m l - ification of um something like a state - transition network of how dialogues would proceed . and the these um transition networks uh will be what the action planner interprets in a sense . professor f : hmm . d did you know this robert ? grad b : uh michael is doing that , right ? phd a : well uh marcus lerkult is actually implementing that stuff and marcus and michael together are um leading the discussion there , yeah . </s>
<s> what problems were reported due to smartkom modules interaction ? </s> grad b : and there is a tower and it 's called powder - tower . phd a : oh , ok . yeah . grad b : and um so what will you parse out of that sentence ? probably something that we specified in m - three - l , that is @ @ { comment } `` action go to whatever domain , object whatever powder - tower `` . and maybe some model will tell us , some gps module , in the mobile scenario where the person is at the moment . and um we 've sort of gone through that once before in the deep mail project and we noticed that first of all what are i should 've brought some slides , but what our so here 's the tower . think of this as a two - dimensional representation of the tower . and our system led people here , to a point where they were facing a wall in front of the tower . there is no entrance there , but it just happens to be the closest point of the road network to the geometric center because that 's how the algorithm works . so we took out that part of the road network as a hack and then it found actually the way to the entrance . which was now the closest point of the road network to phd a : yeah . grad b : ok , geometric center . but what we actually observed in heidelberg is that most people when they want to go there they actually do n't want to enter , because it 's not really interesting . they wan na go to a completely different point where they can look at it and take a picture . phd a : oh , ok . yeah . grad b : and so what uh uh a s you s let 's say a simple parse from a s from an utterance wo n't really give us is what the person actually wants . does he wan na go there to see it ? does he wan na go there now ? later ? how does the person wan na go there ? is that person more likely to want to walk there ? walk a scenic route ? and so forth . there are all kinds of decisions that we have identified in terms of getting to places and in terms of finding information about things . and we are constructing and then we 've identified more or less the extra - linguistic parameters that may f play a role . information related to the user and information related to the situation . and we also want to look closely on the linguistic information that what we can get from the utterance . that 's part of why we implant these intentions in the data collection to see whether people actually phrase things differently whether they want to enter in order to buy something or whether they just wan na go there to look at it . and um so the idea is to construct uh um suitable interfaces and a belief - net for a module that actually tries to guess what the underlying intention was . and then enrich or augment the m - three - l structures with what it thought what more it sort of got out of that utterance . so if it can make a good suggestion , `` hey ! `` you know , `` that person does n't wan na enter . that person just wants to take a picture , `` cuz he just bought film , or `` that person wants to enter because he discussed the admission fee before `` . or `` that person wants to enter because he wants to buy something and that you usually do inside of buildings `` and so forth . these ah these types of uh these bits of additional information are going to be embedded into the m - three - l structure in an sort of subfield that we have reserved . and if the action planner does something with it , great . if not you know , then that 's also something um that we ca n't really at least we { comment } want to offer the extra information . we do n't really um we 're not too worried . phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : i mean t s ultimately if you have if you can offer that information , somebody 's gon na s do something with it sooner or later . that 's sort of part of our belief . grad e : what was he saying ? grad b : um , for example , right now i know the gis from email is not able to calculate these viewpoints . so that 's a functionality that does n't exist yet to do that dynamically , phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : but if we can offer it that distinction , maybe somebody will go ahead and implement it . surely nobody 's gon na go ahead and implement it if it 's never gon na be used , so . what have i forgotten about ? oh yeah , how we do it , </s>
<s> what was said about the parser interface ? </s> grad b : i thought two things uh we 'll introduce ourselves and what we do . and um we already talked with andreas , thilo and david and some lines of code were already written today and almost tested and just gon na say we have um again the recognizer to parser thing where we 're working on and that should be no problem and then that can be sort of developed uh as needed when we get enter the tourism domain . em we have talked this morning with the with tilman about the generator . and um there one of our diligent workers has to sort of volunteer to look over tilman 's shoulder while he is changing the grammars to english phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : because w we have we face two ways . either we do a syllable concatenating um grammar for the english generation which is sort of starting from scratch and doing it the easy way , or we simply adopt the ah um more in - depth um style that is implemented in the german system and um are then able not only to produce strings but also the syntactic parse uh not parse not the syntactic tree that is underneath in the syntactic structure which is the way we decided we were gon na go because a , it 's easier in the beginning phd a : mm - hmm . grad b : and um it does require some some knowledge of of those grammars and and and some ling linguistic background . but um it should n't be a problem for anyone . professor f : ok so that sounds good . johno , are you gon na have some time t to do that uh w with these guys ? grad e : sure . professor f : cuz y you 're the grammar maven . i mean it makes sense , grad e : yeah . professor f : does n't it ? yeah good . ok . so , i think that 's probably the the right way to do that . and an yeah , so i i actually wan na f to find out about it too , but i may not have time to get in . grad b : the the ultimate goal is that before they leave we we can run through the entire system input through output on at least one or two sample things . and um and by virtue of doing that then in this case johno will have acquired the knowledge of how to extend it . ad infinitum . when needed , if needed , when wanted and so forth . professor f : ok that sounds great . grad b : and um also um ralf has hooked up with david and you 're gon na continue either all through tonight or tomorrow on whatever to get the er parser interface working . they are thinning out and thickening out lattices and doing this kind of stuff to see what works best . grad d : mmm , yep . professor f : great . so , you guys enjoy your weekend ? phd a : yes , very much so . grad d : yeah , very much professor f : ok , before before you got put to work ? great . ok , so that 's sort of one branch is to get us caught up on what 's going on . also of course it would be really nice to know what the plans are , in addition to what 's sort of already in code . and we can d i dunno w w was there uh a time when we were set up to do that ? it probably will work better if we do it later in the week , after we actually understand uh better what 's going on . phd a : yeah . professor f : so when do you guys leave ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : hello . project manager : . . marketing : yes , i made it . english from now on . industrial designer : . marketing : drawing or project manager : yeah just testing . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm ? english . industrial designer : just kidding . project manager : . industrial designer : so annoying . project manager : break is over . marketing : ooh it works . project manager : whoo . marketing : spicy . project manager : spicy . marketing : where are are all the other presentations ? industrial designer : i just put it in the in the shared folder so it should be marketing : the conceptual or industrial designer : yeah i think so . yeah , conceptual design . what or whatever does it marketing : ah . because i see only my own presentation user interface : industrial designer : no no no , can you go back one ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh 'cause it has to be powerpoint pre yeah components design , that 's it . marketing : this ? i 'll just put it in there . project manager : so , he 's coming . industrial designer : . i did get a bit more done than the last time , marketing : or not . user interface : okay . project manager : oh okay . industrial designer : 'cause i knew that i did n't have time so i just copy and paste everything into the user interface : project manager : ah . she . marketing : i ca n't cut and paste it into the other folder but project manager : you can look at the final report , 'cause i have to record everything we are deciding and such , so i 'm trying to write it down between everything else . marketing : move to meeting room . industrial designer : sometimes i have these pop-ups or these sounds and there 's nothing there , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and also with i do n't know how to use powerpoint , so it takes me forever to get something done with it . marketing : yeah me too , . user interface : i i 've got the same problem as well . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : here we go again . welcome . uh we have again three presentations and then we have to decide on what concepts the mobile phone has to uh f the remote control has to support . so who wants go . industrial designer : mm-hmm . who wants to start ? marketing : me first again or project manager : yeah sure . does n't matter . user interface : oh . no . yeah . no problem marketing : yeah . alright . did you open it already or no . ah . ah . yes . so welcome to the marketing presentation once again . um this time about trendwatching . uh well there has been inv investigation again , in the in the remote control market . uh it shows a number of developments . uh i will address them uh in a moment . um fashion watch watchers uh have detected the trends for young public , because that 's our public . um well fruit and vegetables will be will be the most important theme for clothing , uh shoes and furniture . and the feel of the material is expected to be spongey . so um the developments i will address them project manager : marketing : oh yeah well this is the fruit and vegetables looks of fresh bright colours . so to give you an idea . um well the developments ? uh development one . uh well most important aspect for remote control happens to be a fancy look-and-feel . instead of the current uh functional look-and-feel . um well fancy stands for an original look-and-feel of the case and the interface . and the second most important aspect is that a remote control should be technological uh innovative . um well it stands for the use of technical features that do not exist in current remote controls . i think we pretty much covered that with our screen and um and speech recognition , industrial designer : sound . yeah yeah uh uh . marketing : so i do n't expect that to be a problem . and the third development um is that the remote control should be easy to use . um well the first aspect uh was twice as important as the second aspect , w which was twice as important as the third aspect . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so um that kind of gets you this ratios . so fancy look-and-feel uh is the most important uh point of attention . project manager : . marketing : uh so the fruits and vegetables in combination with the spongey material . um well technolog technological innovation , we 've covered that pretty much i guess . um and easy to use , i do n't think that will be problem . so my point of attention is especially this part . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that this will be a crux . so that was the marketing uh presentation . i had only one document left . industrial designer : and shall i go first ? user interface : yeah . no . i i do n't mi i do n't mind . industrial designer : so i user interface : that 's project manager : yeah yeah sure . no . marketing : so kind of this user interface : do you want to go first ? okay . industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : so a k a small example . user interface : yeah . marketing : kind of this this look . user interface : marketing : uh nothing about the buttons but just sponge kind of thing , and and some fruit and colours user interface : yeah . marketing : i dunno . just made a quick design . user interface : project manager : cool . yeah you 're just the user interface hmm ? user interface : it 's better than than my uh drawing . industrial designer : alright . marketing : alright . user interface : yeah okay but i have to design the industrial designer : uh components . project manager : yeah layout . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah okay . industrial designer : oh no . marketing : yeah . it 's okay . project manager : you probably opened it . industrial designer : yeah true . um project manager : f_ five . marketing : f_ five . industrial designer : alright . so marketing : industrial designer : i 'm dealing with the components design . um let 's see . i uh used some design examples we had uh from similar products . and i used uh possibilities from our manufacturing department about current components which will have to be implemented in the design . that 's why i had to , wanted to go first . well they gave me um an idea about what people want . we 're f mainly focusing on this group , but i want to make the distinction clear . uh i could not drag the pictures into the the slides so s so i do n't have examples of how it looks like . but it comes down to what you uh what you think we should do with the spongey and the fruity looking uh type . if you , the young dynamic people want soft primary colours uh , which looks like fruits you know , you can and shapes that are curved and not uh solid straight lines anymore . so this basically um yeah goes on to what you were mentioning earlier . there is a lot of um factors involved in choosing the components . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : there 's a lot of options that we have to discuss . uh for example the energy source . we have four types . the basic battery . uh we have a hand dynamo , which we yeah we dutch refer to it as the kneipgatt . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : uh the kinetic provision of energy which means if you move the thing , if you shake it . project manager : industrial designer : which will be fun for toddlers right , if they wan na use the project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and uh of course solar cells . but i dunno how we would use that into the design of the actual product . marketing : wi an indoors . industrial designer : so uh my project manager : yeah okay . calculator 's can do it . industrial designer : yeah also also in you know countries where there 's n is n't much light like in scandinavia , they would n't be y able to use it half of the year you know . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so that 's not cool either . so um for the uh a case , there 's uh the traditional uncurved flat hard case . single curved , which means that it has uh curves in one dimension . or the double curved . um i was n't able to finish my uh personal preferences sheet , but well you know that we will have to go for the double curved 'cause it 's daring and different from what we have now . uh the case materials . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well we have all kinds of hard uh materials like the the hard plastic , the wood and the titanium . i would definitely go for rubber 'cause it fits most in what people wan na see nowadays . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um poo , this is a lot of text . i was n't able to organise this yet . we have yeah several uh interface designs . uh we can use a scroll buttons for the menus , but we already kind of decided to go for the f for the pushbuttons , for the the arrow buttons . user interface : yeah . pushbuttons . yeah . industrial designer : so that 's not really interesting . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : electronics ? yeah , maybe we wan na decide on what electronics to use the advanced chip i think is easiest to implement uh for the production , 'cause they they can print it better . um yeah . i think this is about it . yeah i was working on some per personal preferences . i first uh chose for the battery , 'cause yeah i 'm traditional and that 's the most obvious , easiest choice to go to . but i really think that we should maybe uh think about the kinetic energy , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : where you have to move the thing to be able to use it . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : as an optional uh feature . marketing : yeah . user interface : or combine uh both with a with one uh project manager : uh i think you can only fit one uh source of energy on the industrial designer : yeah maybe we marketing : i guess we can only choose one . user interface : okay . industrial designer : i can imagine that the kinetic uh type energy source would be more expensive to make . but it is more longlasting , that the people do n't have to ever buy batteries again . marketing : yeah . and it 's more fun . project manager : i did n't receive any info uh . industrial designer : and it 's also more fun yeah . i always chuck my uh remote control around , so marketing : yeah , just playing with it project manager : yeah . marketing : and especially when the material 's rubber . it can be done , i mean , you ca n't harm it , project manager : s yeah it 's safe . user interface : and throw it . industrial designer : yeah y exactly . marketing : so it 's a perfect combination i guess . industrial designer : you do n't have to be scared about bouncing it off the g floor and breaking it or whatever . user interface : marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : so that 's the end of it . user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : 'kay next . industrial designer : uh go ahead . marketing : so double curved is like this , this , this , or industrial designer : no it means curved in two dimensions . so uh w single curved ? uh let 's say would be a b square box , but then with curves on one dimension . and double curved would means that it would have curves curves in every direction . like three d_ . yeah . marketing : yeah . also in in height ? project manager : uh marketing : yeah okay . project manager : okay . can we uh user interface : yeah . one one uh very important thing i was uh yeah thinking about is the speech uh option . we were going to use that . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . so um yeah um yeah that 's one thing uh which i 'm not sure uh of how to implement it uh into the remote control . project manager : well the visual representation is not there with speech industrial designer : design ? user interface : no okay but it has to be combined with with the menu uh for functions and project manager : but you can yeah . just yeah . user interface : so okay . project manager : i think you can just uh match the speech commands with the functions that are already present . user interface : yeah . project manager : so i do n't think you have to design anything else for that . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah with the programme . user interface : but do uh j do we uh do the speech just for the basic options , for the simple buttons ? project manager : both . user interface : for for everything , project manager : yeah . user interface : also for the advanced options ? okay . uh we have this very uh basic uh trendy design . everybody says it so that 's what 's uh yeah um yeah in the in the last uh meeting we uh we were yeah putting the the simple and the advanced options separated . that 's yeah obvious . um yeah . pressing the the menu option uh will disable uh all other options on your uh remote control . and only the the lcd panel will uh light up and then you can only uh change the yeah the options . marketing : and and the and the buttons that you need to control it , i guess . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . um yeah design has to be very attractive but that 's your your op your yeah . project manager : user interface : you have to uh delete this but this is the the the simple uh layout . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh display on the upper side with the the menu button and maybe a some sort of cancel button or save button . project manager : that would be the back . user interface : i 'm the back . project manager : back and okay . marketing : yeah . user interface : back and okay yeah . marketing : back and okay . project manager : you did read the minutes i wrote ? user interface : uh project manager : you did read the minutes i wrote ? user interface : what ? a little bit i think but not not everything w industrial designer : i project manager : oh okay 'cause i pretty much summed up all the buttons there were . so user interface : okay . oh i uh did n't read that . project manager : i hate doing work for nothing . user interface : but but this is the the basic uh design uh for the for the m yeah for the buttons . marketing : user interface : um i wanted to to categorise everything . uh with a speech display uh yeah , sound , everything you you noted in your uh minutes . um every pushbutton has uh has its own uh led light . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you can uh yeah change uh m make it more trendy for for younger people . and uh if there are older people they wanted more uh yeah more uh luxurous so that 's an a also an option . um that was it . project manager : that was it ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . uh again . ugh . okay so what we have to decide is what kind of components do we use ? uh energy source , chip type , case type . and user interface . but i did n't see a clear distinction between these so i think what we have is okay . so we only , we already decided that kinetic would be the choice for energy . uh the case would be doubly curved . so industrial designer : and rubber . rubber material . marketing : rubber material . project manager : rubber material . and that 's the only thing we have left . industrial designer : yeah we need the the chip on print to be able to support the the screen and uh and f audio function . project manager : oh okay . no it 's easy . marketing : so that 's uh is that is that the advanced chip ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : advanced chip . okay . industrial designer : otherwise you would have a simple chip , just for pressing buttons . but we need more . marketing : wow . yeah . alright . industrial designer : i 'm just thinking , this is not my department , but i i 'm not sure what this is gon na cost , marketing : kinetic . double curved . project manager : too . industrial designer : to be able to m project manager : uh i did n't get any info on this . so marketing : . industrial designer : so 'cause we need to sell it for twenty five euro a piece . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that 's gon na be difficult huh ? marketing : the cost of making it should be twelve and a half ? project manager : i have total here . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : project manager : yeah i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah . project manager : i did n't get any information about that so user interface : . we 're going to produce it in uh china so it 's no problem . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : child labour man , we love it . user interface : marketing : yeah , so it 's cheap . project manager : who does n't . uh let 's see . is there a new thing ? marketing : um well the interface type supplements . project manager : yeah the interface , maybe can user interface : uh it 's it 's quite difficult because we we have n't got all the options uh yeah . project manager : ooh . no . uh do you have a picture of doubly curved case ? and could you put that in the group folder ? of the project folder . industrial designer : um let me see . wait a sec . marketing : if you go to your homepage or something , you should industrial designer : yeah i 'm going there now . marketing : get your own information . industrial designer : inspiration . marketing : i got my fresh and fyoo fruity uh picture uh also uh over there , so project manager : ah you did n't draw it yourself . user interface : industrial designer : well project manager : ah . marketing : too less time . industrial designer : um yeah maybe it 's marketing : yeah , also the menu . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that that w user interface : this is the the menu i was uh looking uh at . marketing : yeah . yeah i was thinking of that also , with with a with a uh arrow . industrial designer : maybe it 's easier user interface : yeah . project manager : arrow . user interface : arrow yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so that indicates that there 's an menu under that menu . industrial designer : yeah . yeah perfect . user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : . 's the target group . industrial designer : maybe it 's easier if you guys come over here . user interface : s yeah . project manager : yeah sure . industrial designer : s see this is the the the standard traditional type , where the form uh yeah serves the function , you know . marketing : oh yeah . industrial designer : it 's like really basic . but this m is more appealing to old people and we do n't want that . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : this is what we 're looking for . and th that means curved in both dire dire uh dimensions . project manager : oh okay . i see . industrial designer : not only like this but it has to be project manager : yeah also like this . so you can hold it . industrial designer : exactly . it has to be kind of instead of the playstation , the module . it has to be like the the game cube , you know , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : where your thumbs would be laying in the instrument and it has to be nice to hold . and user interface : but it has also to it it has also to be uh luxurous uh for for yeah rich people . project manager : . user interface : th this looks a little bit like like for only for children . so project manager : the children 's story . yeah i 've got it . industrial designer : yeah but that 's that 's the the problem uh yeah the dilemma actually , project manager : distinction . yeah . industrial designer : 'cause we wan na appeal to the to the young public with fancy with flashy colours , and with a lot of shape . and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , and the and the rubber , it it will look cheap always , user interface : the colour yeah . okay but the the colours , you you can make it uh make the colours with leds uh beneath the the buttons . industrial designer : you know , with the project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : if you press a button and you can disable the the colour leds for for people that do n't like it . industrial designer : there is mobile phones , in which you can change the colour also of the lights . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : maybe we should consider this function . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : to customise it and so i mean kids can make it look more flashy with different kinds of colours user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and people who want something , you know , different , or more uh design , they can go for one colour project manager : different . mm-hmm . industrial designer : like uh for example this uh photo th camera . project manager : camera . marketing : yeah . cool . s underwater uh project manager : yeah submarine . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : personally i think it 's really ugly . project manager : well user interface : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : just give me the thing that it 's inside there project manager : yeah but this this the is for the . user interface : very cheap uh cheap look . industrial designer : maybe i 'm too old for this stuff . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . uh industrial designer : so those i think are all my marketing : . project manager : ah yeah bright colours . marketing : yeah . also a kind of rubber uh industrial designer : and this is , this is with the curved that i mean . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's singly curved . industrial designer : yeah . yeah ? project manager : okay . marketing : that should be nice . project manager : well we could make a compromise between that . but i do n't know if it 's worth the effort . industrial designer : a compromise between what ? project manager : uh instead of doubly curved we take a single curved . so to appeal a little more to the all the public . industrial designer : this , this would be uh single curved uh ? project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah there 's only in in this dimension . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like this . so curvy or not . project manager : also . industrial designer : yeah . exactly . exactly . marketing : yeah so we keep it singly c single curved then ? project manager : yeah that would be an option . i do n't know what you think . industrial designer : i think the marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i mean our aim is to make something different right ? to make something new . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i would go for the double curved . project manager : okay . yeah i 'd agree . industrial designer : and i i 'm i 'm thinking uh you know uh a drawing palette , where you have the shape for your thumb . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so it kind of holds nicely , something like that . user interface : yeah but if you if you make it more curved we we can make more and more options for buttons . industrial designer : well this is really your decision but marketing : yeah . user interface : if you have uh it have it in your hand , you you you are not only um yeah you do n't need one dimension but you can use other dimensions for pressing the the buttons . industrial designer : yeah . as well . you can make a trigger button or something like that . user interface : yeah . something to shoot at your television industrial designer : yeah or that that is the confirmation button or something , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that you scroll with your thumb , with the arrows , and then confirm . user interface : that 's yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : that would be a nice way to use it but i mean , yeah , i 'm thinking big already , and we need something that well that that you can able to use in one hand i think . project manager : different . stands out . or oh yeah a one hand uh solution . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so from top view it looks kinda like this . but from the side you you can have it also in a kind of shape . project manager : can turn it maybe . marketing : maybe because the the screen is on top you can have project manager : to switch from buttons to interface hmm . if you turn it a little . . industrial designer : . marketing : maybe you can c have this kind of shape . a little upwards . so that the screen is more project manager : oh yeah . least you can easily see it . marketing : towards yourself , so you can easily see your screen . industrial designer : how about marketing : well well you have it in your hand so it 's a kind of an angle from your eyes to the screen . so then you have double double curved in some way . so this this is so the screen is positioned over here . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : oh . something like that . and the buttons are more , well it 's very thick now but industrial designer : yeah i understand what you mean . marketing : that 's uh that 's industrial designer : how about we do a uh a pop-up screen , like the laptop . project manager : if you can uh flip . industrial designer : so that the only the simple functions will be visible at first . marketing : yeah ? that that you can press it and then it comes up ? or industrial designer : and then if you want project manager : uh so you have a the the side view . industrial designer : yeah . something like that . marketing : but then the side view can be straight . if you have a pop-up screen . but i dunno if that 's too expensive . project manager : so and you want to be able to industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i mean maybe it 's too much project manager : make this industrial designer : no uh like project manager : . industrial designer : i would draw it like this . let 's say this is the side view . that you have a a screen that will come up here , and can go down that way . if you know what i mean . user interface : okay . yeah . industrial designer : so that it would come up like that . project manager : okay so the buttons are on top here , and you flip it over that way . industrial designer : yeah or preferably even keep the simple buttons here , and then under the screen even you could put more more advanced buttons . project manager : yeah . oh yeah . yeah yeah yeah yeah . right . yeah that 's good idea . marketing : oh the advanced buttons . right . user interface : that 's the the more advanced options were uh for the for the menu . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : but you you want industrial designer : f for the lcd menu right ? user interface : okay . you just want to hide them all ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so w w project manager : no not all because you need most of them , the arrow buttons . user interface : the oh . marketing : yeah . project manager : but you can hide the okay and the back uh button . user interface : yeah yeah yeah . project manager : and the menu button also because when you flip it open marketing : yeah . project manager : and you can maybe even drop the menu button because maybe if you flip it open it will auto activate amauto uh uh automatically . industrial designer : oh project manager : industrial designer : activate and th the yeah . marketing : so okay b but you have t you need some button to flip this open . project manager : why ? you could just make it mechanical . industrial designer : true . true . but you can make a , yeah , you can make a trigger here . you know a simple uh with a marketing : yeah . yeah and it says menu and it flips open and then you have the buttons to control it , in combination with your user interface : that 's but it 's it 's not industrial designer : yeah . exactly . user interface : it 's not very uh very strong uh yeah if you drop it one time . marketing : true . it uh c it can go open . industrial designer : well yeah the the idea of it was , is that because you close it , you cover the lcd screen and it wo n't be vulnerable to scratches or whatever . project manager : if you cover it with rubber . mm . user interface : okay . marketing : an adv an adv and it will be covered in some kind of uh thin rubber layer or something like that . industrial designer : and project manager : yeah . so it can bounce . industrial designer : exactly . exactly . we just have to make sure that the closing mechanism wo n't break . marketing : yeah , uh it 's very no it 's very strong . industrial designer : th it 's very solid yeah . project manager : yeah okay so that that may work . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that actually will offer some extra protection for the project manager : okay but then we still have the the the thing of the the the shape . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : what kind of industrial designer : yeah i was thinking , if if you have your hand , it this is your th project manager : harder . marketing : yeah the lower part does n't work i guess , so maybe you should try it over there . project manager : . industrial designer : okay . if this is your thumb , and this is your hand like that . with your uh wrist . project manager : industrial designer : that you , that it would be kind of shape like this , you know . so it 's easier to hold in your hand , to y f user interface : but when you are left-handed , that 's that 's a problem . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh yeah . yeah of course . project manager : maybe can design two versions . industrial designer : yeah then w then you would have to to make it like this . marketing : yeah . user interface : but that 's that 's very expensive uh industrial designer : like like you drew here . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and maybe th then make this thicker also than the centre . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : give it project manager : and ergonomical shape . yeah . industrial designer : i would give it a female shape user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but uh yeah . anyway . marketing : yeah . project manager : the female shape yeah . with two uh industrial designer : obviously . make it more appealing to guys . marketing : yeah . user interface : we we could make some some rubber uh some rubber uh yeah mouse , with which you can change uh industrial designer : i mean project manager : oh yeah . some uh k esk uh yeah . user interface : and so if you yeah . marketing : yeah but but that 's optional for later i guess . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : i mean , we have to make industrial designer : yeah but we have hardware inside , which is so it has to have some sort of basic shape . user interface : some yeah . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : yeah we we better so choose one industrial designer : and also the screen , you can not mould it . user interface : no no no no . industrial designer : you know kind of thing . marketing : yeah so okay we should better choose one sh one shape . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but that 's the kind of the idea , industrial designer : and then you can marketing : so it lays good in the hand , and then on on the side with with your thumb , industrial designer : you can place the screen here , which can come . marketing : you you can you can use , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , you can use the button option project manager : so the keywords are primary co colours , spongey ? industrial designer : and but then i w i would marketing : spongey . industrial designer : i would do the arrows here , kind of thing . marketing : spongey can be reached by means of industrial designer : those buttons ? and the simple buttons here , user interface : . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so that user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . and and the and the control thngs in the middle ? the the the arrows ? industrial designer : i uh y eah that 's what i mean . user interface : no the arrow 's over here . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the arrows over here , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and here the s simple uh marketing : yeah and then numbers . project manager : buttons . okay . marketing : yeah . alright . project manager : i think that uh it 's a nice design . marketing : uh pretty nice design . yeah . industrial designer : project manager : it 's cool . marketing : yeah it looks uh pretty fancy . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or do we wan na make its shape look like a banana or something ? user interface : industrial designer : i dunno . marketing : . project manager : yeah that 's user interface : marketing : uh bananas wierd shape and other fruits also , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it 's better to have um some sort of basic print and then a fruit print in some primary uh colours . industrial designer : yeah we could make marketing : i do n't know what what colours should the basic print be like ? like some soft green or something ? project manager : orange or something . marketing : or and then user interface : or blue ? dark blue or marketing : oh yeah yeah , dark blue industrial designer : we should use marketing : and then and then very bright , uh a yellow banana , an orange , uh a green apple , stuff like that , user interface : yeah . marketing : with very uh bright tones i guess . industrial designer : yeah w we need very primary colours , like bright red , bright yellow . marketing : so you have something like project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah but the primary colours w we can uh create with the with the leds on the on the remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah okay yeah . user interface : if you we uh yeah . if you make it uh just a yeah bl give it a blue colour , then it 's just a neutral colour , project manager : user interface : also for the for the more uh yeah for the people . project manager : huh cool . marketing : mm . that does n't really work . to draw , i guess . project manager : no it 's . marketing : oh . what 's this ? project manager : yeah it 's text . user interface : marketing : right . project manager : n no you have to exit . you could also make line with uh user interface : so that 's marketing : yeah . two hours further . project manager : yeah . marketing : thickness . oh . user interface : so that 's blue . marketing : oh . wh why not go for the twenty ? user interface : project manager : mm . yeah . marketing : yeah . that 's what i call painting . project manager : y marketing : so that 's that 's a dark blue basic colour i guess . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah and then on top of that . marketing : it 's pretty nice . and then uh oh project manager : some yellow . marketing : yeah with some some yellow banana project manager : banana colour . industrial designer : and how about some uh some flashing standby lights ? marketing : like . industrial designer : like you have on the samsung , well i do n't like to call brands phones , marketing : industrial designer : the you know that 'cause i remember from one of our first meetings that uh people lose their uh remote controls often . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : so it not not only in in the colours of the leds , that we want something to keep it visible at all times , or marketing : how do you mean ? project manager : yeah if you if flashing colour so you ca n't lose it , basically . industrial designer : um user interface : yeah . marketing : some some industrial designer : yeah . exactly . project manager : well i think it 's a bit too much but user interface : maybe a industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah an orange . well alright well this is more like purple i guess , project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : but it 's should be more real dark blue , so the contrast with the with the fruit objects is uh pretty high . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so uh yeah . that would be a nice uh nice device i guess . user interface : and which which colour should uh should i give the the display ? uh or marketing : i mean , the the colour of the background of the display ? user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : ah well i do n't guess it s has to be a sixty uh sixty six five thousand uh colour , so yeah too expensive . project manager : and then you can use yellow or semething . why not ? aye . user interface : yeah . marketing : so just just a a blue blue backlight or something like that . user interface : mm . yeah . marketing : green is too old-fashioned . but blue , blue 's okay . j industrial designer : as long as you loo use uh high contrast between the the background and the foreground colour . project manager : like this . user interface : maybe a maybe a white a white backlight ? industrial designer : so that people with uh with marketing : white backlight , and dark . user interface : dark uh letters , yeah . marketing : yeah . whatever which is visible . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i know you sh you should test it under uh under a light conditions . i mean it 's hard to tell uh i dunno . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and also for people who are a bit colourblind . project manager : colourblind yeah . marketing : yeah . true . project manager : no so that 's mostly red and green i believe . marketing : which which uh colour should the buttons be ? user interface : that 's adjustable . project manager : woah . all all buttons ? marketing : why adjustable ? user interface : yeah ? or not . project manager : okay . marketing : no uh user interface : that 's how we are going to make it uh more trendy . or is it uh too expensive ? marketing : but maybe i mean they have to they have to have some colour right ? project manager : it 's difficult . marketing : and if the background is very dark blue project manager : blue . maybe green . industrial designer : but do n't we wan na make the background the the bright colo colours ? so th the total of the thing is very bright ? project manager : yeah you can industrial designer : like the pictures i showed you guys . those things were all like like bright red , bright red , flashy . marketing : yeah ? project manager : mm-hmm flashy . marketing : so more like project manager : mm bzz . marketing : does n't work very well . uh . more like this colour . industrial designer : yeah something like that , something that stands out more . marketing : and then then yellow and orange and red objects on it or something . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but then then again , which colour should the buttons be ? the the press buttons . should they be white or black or project manager : red maybe . user interface : and it it looks quite cheap , that colour i think . marketing : uh project manager : black . user interface : it 's it 's not industrial designer : the green ? user interface : yeah . i dunno . marketing : yeah but it 's pretty fresh , on the other side . project manager : yeah . so industrial designer : it 's actually a pretty trendy colour at the moment . user interface : it 's it 's trendy okay . but marketing : yeah . my couch is in that colour . project manager : ooh . . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : well it works pretty well . project manager : marketing : and then time was up . project manager : uh not yet . marketing : uh industrial designer : do you get a pop-up if we marketing : . project manager : yeah within five minutes yeah . marketing : that you have five minutes left or industrial designer : alright . project manager : y left yeah left and then uh i have to kick you out . marketing : so something like this . user interface : yeah . marketing : that should be pretty nice colour . but maybe the buttons , all buttons in red is maybe a bad contrast for colourblind people . project manager : yeah yeah . industrial designer : no that 's actu marketing : because the of the green . user interface : but the but the buttons have their own leds or not ? project manager : they have leds but they have a colour . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : red and green are actually the b the easiest to discriminate . even for colourblind . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : they will see one of each as grey . but if you use uh green on blue , those kind of colours will look the same . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : i think . marketing : so red buttons are okay ? industrial designer : i think so . project manager : you can make them red . user interface : okay . that that 's a default uh setting . the the red buttons . project manager : yeah . but i think you need to keep in mind that the leds are just extra light . marketing : how do you mean ? project manager : uh they they do n't determine the colour that much , i think . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . yeah i i was think about a red uh red leds and blue leds and project manager : 'cause you have to print on them you have a background marketing : no that 's that 's too busy i guess . user interface : yeah . project manager : each number is transparent . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh partly but you have to print on the number . or the the sign . user interface : okay . project manager : so you ca n't change the colour so marketing : you better bet better better keep the led and the button itself in the same colour i guess . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : so just an extra project manager : bit of light . industrial designer : you can marketing : bit of light and attention . project manager : bit of feedback . industrial designer : what we should do i think is is make kind of a see-through plastic button , with uh one coloured led behind it . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so that the whole button will shine project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : as the colour the and if you think about easy to use buttons , we have to , well we have to make it the shape so that it 's easy to hold f for both hands , marketing : industrial designer : but also that you can reach the buttons with your thumb , if you hold the machine . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay with uh do n't mean to discourage you but uh basically you two are going to work on the smartboard . next thirty minutes to design something so industrial designer : ah , right . marketing : alright . project manager : and the you will do the evaluation . marketing : of the product ? project manager : yeah . marketing : which we do n't have yet . project manager : yeah uh about user interface : marketing : so wh how should i do that ? project manager : yeah i do n't know . you probably get a mail . marketing : oh okay . or you you or you send it to me . or just project manager : yeah . once they are finished . yeah . marketing : because you are going to design it on this board right ? project manager : yeah but maybe you can do the evaluation you do n't have to evaluate yet but you can make a procedure which to follow . i do n't know . marketing : yeah . i i probably get instruction on that , how to do that , project manager : yeah . marketing : so i make another presentation i guess . project manager : yeah . marketing : i kn i know what 's gon na happen in in yeah so project manager : about . yeah . you have the basic idea . marketing : i 've a basic idea . project manager : and you two uh are going to do this . look-and-feel and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so we 're gon na work here ? on this sketchboard ? project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : good luck . industrial designer : alright . thanks . marketing : yeah . alright so that 's uh project manager : so i uh make new page and uh be creative . marketing : yeah . user interface : but we have to do it at this moment , after th this meeting ? industrial designer : alright . project manager : yeah you have uh industrial designer : thirty minutes . project manager : thirty minutes . user interface : okay . project manager : then we have to uh see something which we can uh user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : alright . project manager : show to the management . user interface : ah so this is basically the what what we are thinking about ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i would yeah . industrial designer : shall we uh make a new uh project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah l let 's just uh delete all these uh or marketing : yeah . project manager : next . marketing : . industrial designer : yeah , i just make a new one . user interface : oh , next . marketing : yeah . project manager : oh and save this uh board . industrial designer : alright . project manager : just save it . industrial designer : huh ? yeah i 'll just i 'll just keep it there . project manager : yeah okay but just press save and uh industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 'll be fine . marketing : on the left . s so , yeah . industrial designer : uh sorry . project manager : you can also include clip-art . user interface : industrial designer : okay . project manager : so if you 'll rather draw in paint or something industrial designer : current colour ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so um user interface : okay . uh industrial designer : shall we make some outline sketches of the basic shape first ? user interface : yeah . and then after that we can make the user uh inter interface . industrial designer : because i i project manager : then look . industrial designer : yeah 'cause i have to uh focus on the on the basic look-and-feel design . marketing : this ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so how it 's gon na look . and you have to think uh how we 're gon na put the screen in it and those kind of things . marketing : uh pretty accurate . industrial designer : so if i 'm drawing and you think okay i 'm not gon na be able to put a screen in there , you have to correct . marketing : oh we skip this i guess . sound button press . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : uh do you mind if i draw in black then ? for normal sketches . project manager : you can also include it . it 's not much work . user interface : oh no it 's it 's okay . marketing : light only button user ca user interaction . industrial designer : so we kind of want the girlish marketing : project manager : that 's included . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : figure . marketing : so the pl the plastic plastic buttons also help uh because of um they are only lit during interaction . so industrial designer : i 'm not so good at drawing . excuse me ? marketing : well it 's a good thing that the buttons are n't um , well that they are plastic , because then you can light up the light on when when they are usable . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : no uh uh . marketing : maybe you should draw it very large like this . user interface : yeah but this part is n't uh functioning properly . project manager : yeah . sensitive . marketing : oh right . industrial designer : how do we uh uh marketing : erase ? industrial designer : or insert text ? project manager : i dunno . maybe just start typing . industrial designer : user interface : it 's a bit uh large . industrial designer : oh that 's a bit big . yeah . project manager : you also do the other sides . not only on the front si uh the top side but also the the side view . user interface : . industrial designer : yeah . ex exactly . user interface : l let 's make first the the the all the views . the the front view , side view and the back view . industrial designer : uh project manager : uh . industrial designer : uh i thought for the side view , that the w the basic section would be rather uh a bit thicker than the middle , where you 're holding it with your project manager : jesus . what do i write down ? marketing : yeah . project manager : why ca n't i work here ? this is much easier . user interface : yeah . marketing : much easier , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause your fingers have to fit underneath and user interface : the middle has to be very small so you can have it in your hand . marketing : i do n't see a sign that the meeting is over yet but industrial designer : exactly but the uh but the upper side has to be a bit more like that i think . project manager : no so i just work here a few minutes . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah the display , industrial designer : uh do n't you think ? user interface : we yeah we can put a display . industrial designer : so the display we will put in here , the basic uh functions in here , where it 's most reachable . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the user interface : the the arrow functions . yeah . yeah . industrial designer : the th exactly . oh . this is hard . user interface : industrial designer : what do do n't have to draw it exactly do we ? user interface : no it 's it 's uh it 's okay . industrial designer : wait . let me try it one more time . maybe i 've uh it 's easier if i draw it in once . okay , of course it will become way more ugly . user interface : you can make it m larger . maybe it 's easier to to draw uh industrial designer : yeah . this 'll take forever . it 's fun to work with this pen . user interface : industrial designer : um so , larger . user interface : yeah that 's that 's the basic idea . yeah . industrial designer : and marketing : wrong one . industrial designer : yeah . so side . project manager : five minutes left before the meeting ends . industrial designer : 'kay . um other views ? project manager : marketing : alright . user interface : yeah only if you are going to put buttons on the side of the unit . industrial designer : uh user interface : that 's the question . industrial designer : yeah . let 's fill i fill in the buttons later . marketing : but we we user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so this is gon na be from the marketing : i is it if if this is from the side industrial designer : uh from user interface : from the marketing : woah . steady . industrial designer : yeah yeah . sorry . marketing : because there the screen goes up like that right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so then it 's like this , industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : or that 's not convenient because then you have the screen like this and look like the it 's better to have it somewhat like this . or does it flip all the way ? user interface : yeah i 'm i 'm industrial designer : the the idea is that it has to flip up to here . user interface : may maybe it 's it 's easier to to integrate the the the lcd screen just into this this bubble . because it do does n't have to flip then . industrial designer : okay . user interface : because we have en enough space for for making a an l_c_d . industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah yeah . user interface : because here marketing : it 's better to to have this like this i guess , and then flip it like this . industrial designer : true . user interface : but why why do we need uh the flipping uh industrial designer : you can adjust the angle to which it flips . so it can also from this angle , it can flip all the way up to there . user interface : okay . yeah . industrial designer : you can flip it up to there if you want . marketing : yeah . so w yeah . but we still keep the flipping mechanism . project manager : yeah we keep the flip ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : think so . project manager : keep the flip live . industrial designer : yeah because i think it will feel weird if you would make this smaller and this bigger or something that user interface : marketing : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno . marketing : user interface : uh the the shape is okay but yeah ? i do n't see the the yeah why why we should use the the flipping uh mechanism . industrial designer : i thought it would be cool . marketing : yeah . user interface : because we okay yeah . it 's it 's for for for more trendy uh marketing : yeah but maybe yeah but maybe we we should then user interface : because we have enough space . h here we got uh the basic functions , the the arrow uh yeah button . marketing : yeah there the middle sh sh should n't we integrate it ? user interface : yeah and then h we sh mm . marketing : and then like i oh th user interface : industrial designer : marketing : doh . come on . so this is the shape . oh . it has n't industrial designer : . it does n't aim so well . user interface : marketing : okay but the screen is a bit lower because if it falls on the other side , it does n't fall on the screen . user interface : yeah , then it 's marketing : so there 's a layer of rubber on the side . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah . definitely . project manager : marketing : so no flipping but just user interface : no flipping or project manager : no flipping ? user interface : you wanted the flipping so industrial designer : yeah i guess but uh i mean most votes count right ? user interface : but if you if you if you drop it it it just breaks . and it has to be very strong because of the . yeah kind of project manager : it 's shaking . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : throwing and the kinetics . oh . we better make we better make it like this . eventually . industrial designer : yeah true true . project manager : yeah just light on top . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it 's also for the for the children , it 's yeah for people not sixteen years . industrial designer : yeah if you if you 're going for the kinetics marketing : yeah . project manager : safer . mm . yeah okay that the target group . user interface : but there are more marketing : uh they are responsible enough to have a mobile phone , so also to to deal with their uh remote uh control . yes . user interface : yeah okay . that 's true . okay . yeah ? project manager : well . i just uh ended the meeting . industrial designer : yeah . i 'm just thinking totally different designs also . project manager : you two go design . user interface : okay wi industrial designer : remember that the weird pocketphone thingy which looked like kind of a gameboy . project manager : oh . by the way . um user interface : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : maybe we should try something like that . but yeah . marketing : project manager : i uh thought up a name for our product . yeah . it 's called uh the real remote . user interface : industrial designer : oh right . marketing : yeah ? project manager : with a copyright sign after real . marketing : ooh . industrial designer : alright . user interface : the real remote . marketing : yeah . alright . industrial designer : yeah . i like it . project manager : so maybe you can include that somewhere . industrial designer : okay . this can go . marketing : good . yeah . we should work in our own room right ? or not ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : oh yeah we have to f uh include that in our design as well . project manager : i do n't see any power cables here so industrial designer : let 's see . marketing : yeah . yes . industrial designer : what the hell 's that ? project manager : 'kay . user interface : i think uh it 's the sensors . marketing : see you two in half an hour uh user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh project manager : good luck . user interface : yep . okay that 's the side . ah it 's it 's okay . but do we want uh options on the on the side with the with the buttons ? industrial designer : yeah . i think we do . user interface : or just leave it ? uh could make an uh a volume button uh scroll , volume button . marketing : industrial designer : yeah or j or also scrolling for the m yeah . user interface : for menu . or industrial designer : yeah ? i dunno . we w kind of wanted to stick with the user interface : yeah . no , yeah . industrial designer : yeah i 'm just thinking , if we i we wan na make something different project manager : industrial designer : right ? so the with the scroll is is more futuristic than the standard arrow buttons . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i think . </s>
<s> summarize the personal presentations on the appearance design , the speak recognition system and the ideal materials of the remote control . </s> marketing : hello . project manager : . . marketing : yes , i made it . english from now on . industrial designer : . marketing : drawing or project manager : yeah just testing . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm ? english . industrial designer : just kidding . project manager : . industrial designer : so annoying . project manager : break is over . marketing : ooh it works . project manager : whoo . marketing : spicy . project manager : spicy . marketing : where are are all the other presentations ? industrial designer : i just put it in the in the shared folder so it should be marketing : the conceptual or industrial designer : yeah i think so . yeah , conceptual design . what or whatever does it marketing : ah . because i see only my own presentation user interface : industrial designer : no no no , can you go back one ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh 'cause it has to be powerpoint pre yeah components design , that 's it . marketing : this ? i 'll just put it in there . project manager : so , he 's coming . industrial designer : . i did get a bit more done than the last time , marketing : or not . user interface : okay . project manager : oh okay . industrial designer : 'cause i knew that i did n't have time so i just copy and paste everything into the user interface : project manager : ah . she . marketing : i ca n't cut and paste it into the other folder but project manager : you can look at the final report , 'cause i have to record everything we are deciding and such , so i 'm trying to write it down between everything else . marketing : move to meeting room . industrial designer : sometimes i have these pop-ups or these sounds and there 's nothing there , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and also with i do n't know how to use powerpoint , so it takes me forever to get something done with it . marketing : yeah me too , . user interface : i i 've got the same problem as well . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : here we go again . welcome . uh we have again three presentations and then we have to decide on what concepts the mobile phone has to uh f the remote control has to support . so who wants go . industrial designer : mm-hmm . who wants to start ? marketing : me first again or project manager : yeah sure . does n't matter . user interface : oh . no . yeah . no problem marketing : yeah . alright . did you open it already or no . ah . ah . yes . so welcome to the marketing presentation once again . um this time about trendwatching . uh well there has been inv investigation again , in the in the remote control market . uh it shows a number of developments . uh i will address them uh in a moment . um fashion watch watchers uh have detected the trends for young public , because that 's our public . um well fruit and vegetables will be will be the most important theme for clothing , uh shoes and furniture . and the feel of the material is expected to be spongey . so um the developments i will address them project manager : marketing : oh yeah well this is the fruit and vegetables looks of fresh bright colours . so to give you an idea . um well the developments ? uh development one . uh well most important aspect for remote control happens to be a fancy look-and-feel . instead of the current uh functional look-and-feel . um well fancy stands for an original look-and-feel of the case and the interface . and the second most important aspect is that a remote control should be technological uh innovative . um well it stands for the use of technical features that do not exist in current remote controls . i think we pretty much covered that with our screen and um and speech recognition , industrial designer : sound . yeah yeah uh uh . marketing : so i do n't expect that to be a problem . and the third development um is that the remote control should be easy to use . um well the first aspect uh was twice as important as the second aspect , w which was twice as important as the third aspect . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so um that kind of gets you this ratios . so fancy look-and-feel uh is the most important uh point of attention . project manager : . marketing : uh so the fruits and vegetables in combination with the spongey material . um well technolog technological innovation , we 've covered that pretty much i guess . um and easy to use , i do n't think that will be problem . so my point of attention is especially this part . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that this will be a crux . so that was the marketing uh presentation . i had only one document left . industrial designer : and shall i go first ? user interface : yeah . no . i i do n't mi i do n't mind . industrial designer : so i user interface : that 's project manager : yeah yeah sure . no . marketing : so kind of this user interface : do you want to go first ? okay . industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : so a k a small example . user interface : yeah . marketing : kind of this this look . user interface : marketing : uh nothing about the buttons but just sponge kind of thing , and and some fruit and colours user interface : yeah . marketing : i dunno . just made a quick design . user interface : project manager : cool . yeah you 're just the user interface hmm ? user interface : it 's better than than my uh drawing . industrial designer : alright . marketing : alright . user interface : yeah okay but i have to design the industrial designer : uh components . project manager : yeah layout . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah okay . industrial designer : oh no . marketing : yeah . it 's okay . project manager : you probably opened it . industrial designer : yeah true . um project manager : f_ five . marketing : f_ five . industrial designer : alright . so marketing : industrial designer : i 'm dealing with the components design . um let 's see . i uh used some design examples we had uh from similar products . and i used uh possibilities from our manufacturing department about current components which will have to be implemented in the design . that 's why i had to , wanted to go first . well they gave me um an idea about what people want . we 're f mainly focusing on this group , but i want to make the distinction clear . uh i could not drag the pictures into the the slides so s so i do n't have examples of how it looks like . but it comes down to what you uh what you think we should do with the spongey and the fruity looking uh type . if you , the young dynamic people want soft primary colours uh , which looks like fruits you know , you can and shapes that are curved and not uh solid straight lines anymore . so this basically um yeah goes on to what you were mentioning earlier . there is a lot of um factors involved in choosing the components . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : there 's a lot of options that we have to discuss . uh for example the energy source . we have four types . the basic battery . uh we have a hand dynamo , which we yeah we dutch refer to it as the kneipgatt . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : uh the kinetic provision of energy which means if you move the thing , if you shake it . project manager : industrial designer : which will be fun for toddlers right , if they wan na use the project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and uh of course solar cells . but i dunno how we would use that into the design of the actual product . marketing : wi an indoors . industrial designer : so uh my project manager : yeah okay . calculator 's can do it . industrial designer : yeah also also in you know countries where there 's n is n't much light like in scandinavia , they would n't be y able to use it half of the year you know . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so that 's not cool either . so um for the uh a case , there 's uh the traditional uncurved flat hard case . single curved , which means that it has uh curves in one dimension . or the double curved . um i was n't able to finish my uh personal preferences sheet , but well you know that we will have to go for the double curved 'cause it 's daring and different from what we have now . uh the case materials . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well we have all kinds of hard uh materials like the the hard plastic , the wood and the titanium . i would definitely go for rubber 'cause it fits most in what people wan na see nowadays . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um poo , this is a lot of text . i was n't able to organise this yet . we have yeah several uh interface designs . uh we can use a scroll buttons for the menus , but we already kind of decided to go for the f for the pushbuttons , for the the arrow buttons . user interface : yeah . pushbuttons . yeah . industrial designer : so that 's not really interesting . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : electronics ? yeah , maybe we wan na decide on what electronics to use the advanced chip i think is easiest to implement uh for the production , 'cause they they can print it better . um yeah . i think this is about it . yeah i was working on some per personal preferences . i first uh chose for the battery , 'cause yeah i 'm traditional and that 's the most obvious , easiest choice to go to . but i really think that we should maybe uh think about the kinetic energy , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : where you have to move the thing to be able to use it . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : as an optional uh feature . marketing : yeah . user interface : or combine uh both with a with one uh project manager : uh i think you can only fit one uh source of energy on the industrial designer : yeah maybe we marketing : i guess we can only choose one . user interface : okay . industrial designer : i can imagine that the kinetic uh type energy source would be more expensive to make . but it is more longlasting , that the people do n't have to ever buy batteries again . marketing : yeah . and it 's more fun . project manager : i did n't receive any info uh . industrial designer : and it 's also more fun yeah . i always chuck my uh remote control around , so marketing : yeah , just playing with it project manager : yeah . marketing : and especially when the material 's rubber . it can be done , i mean , you ca n't harm it , project manager : s yeah it 's safe . user interface : and throw it . industrial designer : yeah y exactly . marketing : so it 's a perfect combination i guess . industrial designer : you do n't have to be scared about bouncing it off the g floor and breaking it or whatever . user interface : marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : so that 's the end of it . user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : 'kay next . industrial designer : uh go ahead . marketing : so double curved is like this , this , this , or industrial designer : no it means curved in two dimensions . so uh w single curved ? uh let 's say would be a b square box , but then with curves on one dimension . and double curved would means that it would have curves curves in every direction . like three d_ . yeah . marketing : yeah . also in in height ? project manager : uh marketing : yeah okay . project manager : okay . can we uh user interface : yeah . one one uh very important thing i was uh yeah thinking about is the speech uh option . we were going to use that . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . so um yeah um yeah that 's one thing uh which i 'm not sure uh of how to implement it uh into the remote control . project manager : well the visual representation is not there with speech industrial designer : design ? user interface : no okay but it has to be combined with with the menu uh for functions and project manager : but you can yeah . just yeah . user interface : so okay . project manager : i think you can just uh match the speech commands with the functions that are already present . user interface : yeah . project manager : so i do n't think you have to design anything else for that . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah with the programme . user interface : but do uh j do we uh do the speech just for the basic options , for the simple buttons ? project manager : both . user interface : for for everything , project manager : yeah . user interface : also for the advanced options ? okay . uh we have this very uh basic uh trendy design . everybody says it so that 's what 's uh yeah um yeah in the in the last uh meeting we uh we were yeah putting the the simple and the advanced options separated . that 's yeah obvious . um yeah . pressing the the menu option uh will disable uh all other options on your uh remote control . and only the the lcd panel will uh light up and then you can only uh change the yeah the options . marketing : and and the and the buttons that you need to control it , i guess . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . um yeah design has to be very attractive but that 's your your op your yeah . project manager : user interface : you have to uh delete this but this is the the the simple uh layout . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh display on the upper side with the the menu button and maybe a some sort of cancel button or save button . project manager : that would be the back . user interface : i 'm the back . project manager : back and okay . marketing : yeah . user interface : back and okay yeah . marketing : back and okay . project manager : you did read the minutes i wrote ? user interface : uh project manager : you did read the minutes i wrote ? user interface : what ? a little bit i think but not not everything w industrial designer : i project manager : oh okay 'cause i pretty much summed up all the buttons there were . so user interface : okay . oh i uh did n't read that . project manager : i hate doing work for nothing . user interface : but but this is the the basic uh design uh for the for the m yeah for the buttons . marketing : user interface : um i wanted to to categorise everything . uh with a speech display uh yeah , sound , everything you you noted in your uh minutes . um every pushbutton has uh has its own uh led light . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you can uh yeah change uh m make it more trendy for for younger people . and uh if there are older people they wanted more uh yeah more uh luxurous so that 's an a also an option . um that was it . project manager : that was it ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . uh again . ugh . okay so what we have to decide is what kind of components do we use ? uh energy source , chip type , case type . and user interface . but i did n't see a clear distinction between these so i think what we have is okay . so we only , we already decided that kinetic would be the choice for energy . uh the case would be doubly curved . so industrial designer : and rubber . rubber material . marketing : rubber material . project manager : rubber material . and that 's the only thing we have left . industrial designer : yeah we need the the chip on print to be able to support the the screen and uh and f audio function . project manager : oh okay . no it 's easy . marketing : so that 's uh is that is that the advanced chip ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : advanced chip . okay . industrial designer : otherwise you would have a simple chip , just for pressing buttons . but we need more . marketing : wow . yeah . alright . industrial designer : i 'm just thinking , this is not my department , but i i 'm not sure what this is gon na cost , marketing : kinetic . double curved . project manager : too . industrial designer : to be able to m project manager : uh i did n't get any info on this . so marketing : . industrial designer : so 'cause we need to sell it for twenty five euro a piece . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that 's gon na be difficult huh ? marketing : the cost of making it should be twelve and a half ? project manager : i have total here . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : project manager : yeah i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah . project manager : i did n't get any information about that so user interface : . we 're going to produce it in uh china so it 's no problem . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : child labour man , we love it . user interface : marketing : yeah , so it 's cheap . project manager : who does n't . uh let 's see . is there a new thing ? marketing : um well the interface type supplements . project manager : yeah the interface , maybe can user interface : uh it 's it 's quite difficult because we we have n't got all the options uh yeah . project manager : ooh . no . uh do you have a picture of doubly curved case ? and could you put that in the group folder ? of the project folder . industrial designer : um let me see . wait a sec . marketing : if you go to your homepage or something , you should industrial designer : yeah i 'm going there now . marketing : get your own information . industrial designer : inspiration . marketing : i got my fresh and fyoo fruity uh picture uh also uh over there , so project manager : ah you did n't draw it yourself . user interface : industrial designer : well project manager : ah . marketing : too less time . industrial designer : um yeah maybe it 's marketing : yeah , also the menu . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that that w user interface : this is the the menu i was uh looking uh at . marketing : yeah . yeah i was thinking of that also , with with a with a uh arrow . industrial designer : maybe it 's easier user interface : yeah . project manager : arrow . user interface : arrow yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so that indicates that there 's an menu under that menu . industrial designer : yeah . yeah perfect . user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : . 's the target group . industrial designer : maybe it 's easier if you guys come over here . user interface : s yeah . project manager : yeah sure . industrial designer : s see this is the the the standard traditional type , where the form uh yeah serves the function , you know . marketing : oh yeah . industrial designer : it 's like really basic . but this m is more appealing to old people and we do n't want that . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : this is what we 're looking for . and th that means curved in both dire dire uh dimensions . project manager : oh okay . i see . industrial designer : not only like this but it has to be project manager : yeah also like this . so you can hold it . industrial designer : exactly . it has to be kind of instead of the playstation , the module . it has to be like the the game cube , you know , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : where your thumbs would be laying in the instrument and it has to be nice to hold . and user interface : but it has also to it it has also to be uh luxurous uh for for yeah rich people . project manager : . user interface : th this looks a little bit like like for only for children . so project manager : the children 's story . yeah i 've got it . industrial designer : yeah but that 's that 's the the problem uh yeah the dilemma actually , project manager : distinction . yeah . industrial designer : 'cause we wan na appeal to the to the young public with fancy with flashy colours , and with a lot of shape . and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , and the and the rubber , it it will look cheap always , user interface : the colour yeah . okay but the the colours , you you can make it uh make the colours with leds uh beneath the the buttons . industrial designer : you know , with the project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : if you press a button and you can disable the the colour leds for for people that do n't like it . industrial designer : there is mobile phones , in which you can change the colour also of the lights . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : maybe we should consider this function . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : to customise it and so i mean kids can make it look more flashy with different kinds of colours user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and people who want something , you know , different , or more uh design , they can go for one colour project manager : different . mm-hmm . industrial designer : like uh for example this uh photo th camera . project manager : camera . marketing : yeah . cool . s underwater uh project manager : yeah submarine . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : personally i think it 's really ugly . project manager : well user interface : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : just give me the thing that it 's inside there project manager : yeah but this this the is for the . user interface : very cheap uh cheap look . industrial designer : maybe i 'm too old for this stuff . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . uh industrial designer : so those i think are all my marketing : . project manager : ah yeah bright colours . marketing : yeah . also a kind of rubber uh industrial designer : and this is , this is with the curved that i mean . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's singly curved . industrial designer : yeah . yeah ? project manager : okay . marketing : that should be nice . project manager : well we could make a compromise between that . but i do n't know if it 's worth the effort . industrial designer : a compromise between what ? project manager : uh instead of doubly curved we take a single curved . so to appeal a little more to the all the public . industrial designer : this , this would be uh single curved uh ? project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah there 's only in in this dimension . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like this . so curvy or not . project manager : also . industrial designer : yeah . exactly . exactly . marketing : yeah so we keep it singly c single curved then ? project manager : yeah that would be an option . i do n't know what you think . industrial designer : i think the marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i mean our aim is to make something different right ? to make something new . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i would go for the double curved . project manager : okay . yeah i 'd agree . industrial designer : and i i 'm i 'm thinking uh you know uh a drawing palette , where you have the shape for your thumb . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so it kind of holds nicely , something like that . user interface : yeah but if you if you make it more curved we we can make more and more options for buttons . industrial designer : well this is really your decision but marketing : yeah . user interface : if you have uh it have it in your hand , you you you are not only um yeah you do n't need one dimension but you can use other dimensions for pressing the the buttons . industrial designer : yeah . as well . you can make a trigger button or something like that . user interface : yeah . something to shoot at your television industrial designer : yeah or that that is the confirmation button or something , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that you scroll with your thumb , with the arrows , and then confirm . user interface : that 's yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : that would be a nice way to use it but i mean , yeah , i 'm thinking big already , and we need something that well that that you can able to use in one hand i think . project manager : different . stands out . or oh yeah a one hand uh solution . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so from top view it looks kinda like this . but from the side you you can have it also in a kind of shape . project manager : can turn it maybe . marketing : maybe because the the screen is on top you can have project manager : to switch from buttons to interface hmm . if you turn it a little . . industrial designer : . marketing : maybe you can c have this kind of shape . a little upwards . so that the screen is more project manager : oh yeah . least you can easily see it . marketing : towards yourself , so you can easily see your screen . industrial designer : how about marketing : well well you have it in your hand so it 's a kind of an angle from your eyes to the screen . so then you have double double curved in some way . so this this is so the screen is positioned over here . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : oh . something like that . and the buttons are more , well it 's very thick now but industrial designer : yeah i understand what you mean . marketing : that 's uh that 's industrial designer : how about we do a uh a pop-up screen , like the laptop . project manager : if you can uh flip . industrial designer : so that the only the simple functions will be visible at first . marketing : yeah ? that that you can press it and then it comes up ? or industrial designer : and then if you want project manager : uh so you have a the the side view . industrial designer : yeah . something like that . marketing : but then the side view can be straight . if you have a pop-up screen . but i dunno if that 's too expensive . project manager : so and you want to be able to industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i mean maybe it 's too much project manager : make this industrial designer : no uh like project manager : . industrial designer : i would draw it like this . let 's say this is the side view . that you have a a screen that will come up here , and can go down that way . if you know what i mean . user interface : okay . yeah . industrial designer : so that it would come up like that . project manager : okay so the buttons are on top here , and you flip it over that way . industrial designer : yeah or preferably even keep the simple buttons here , and then under the screen even you could put more more advanced buttons . project manager : yeah . oh yeah . yeah yeah yeah yeah . right . yeah that 's good idea . marketing : oh the advanced buttons . right . user interface : that 's the the more advanced options were uh for the for the menu . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : but you you want industrial designer : f for the lcd menu right ? user interface : okay . you just want to hide them all ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so w w project manager : no not all because you need most of them , the arrow buttons . user interface : the oh . marketing : yeah . project manager : but you can hide the okay and the back uh button . user interface : yeah yeah yeah . project manager : and the menu button also because when you flip it open marketing : yeah . project manager : and you can maybe even drop the menu button because maybe if you flip it open it will auto activate amauto uh uh automatically . industrial designer : oh project manager : industrial designer : activate and th the yeah . marketing : so okay b but you have t you need some button to flip this open . project manager : why ? you could just make it mechanical . industrial designer : true . true . but you can make a , yeah , you can make a trigger here . you know a simple uh with a marketing : yeah . yeah and it says menu and it flips open and then you have the buttons to control it , in combination with your user interface : that 's but it 's it 's not industrial designer : yeah . exactly . user interface : it 's not very uh very strong uh yeah if you drop it one time . marketing : true . it uh c it can go open . industrial designer : well yeah the the idea of it was , is that because you close it , you cover the lcd screen and it wo n't be vulnerable to scratches or whatever . project manager : if you cover it with rubber . mm . user interface : okay . marketing : an adv an adv and it will be covered in some kind of uh thin rubber layer or something like that . industrial designer : and project manager : yeah . so it can bounce . industrial designer : exactly . exactly . we just have to make sure that the closing mechanism wo n't break . marketing : yeah , uh it 's very no it 's very strong . industrial designer : th it 's very solid yeah . project manager : yeah okay so that that may work . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that actually will offer some extra protection for the project manager : okay but then we still have the the the thing of the the the shape . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : what kind of industrial designer : yeah i was thinking , if if you have your hand , it this is your th project manager : harder . marketing : yeah the lower part does n't work i guess , so maybe you should try it over there . project manager : . industrial designer : okay . if this is your thumb , and this is your hand like that . with your uh wrist . project manager : industrial designer : that you , that it would be kind of shape like this , you know . so it 's easier to hold in your hand , to y f user interface : but when you are left-handed , that 's that 's a problem . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh yeah . yeah of course . project manager : maybe can design two versions . </s>
<s> what did the marketing think of the materials when giving personal presentations on the appearance design , the speak recognition system and the ideal materials of the remote control ? </s> project manager : f_ five . marketing : f_ five . industrial designer : alright . so marketing : industrial designer : i 'm dealing with the components design . um let 's see . i uh used some design examples we had uh from similar products . and i used uh possibilities from our manufacturing department about current components which will have to be implemented in the design . that 's why i had to , wanted to go first . well they gave me um an idea about what people want . we 're f mainly focusing on this group , but i want to make the distinction clear . uh i could not drag the pictures into the the slides so s so i do n't have examples of how it looks like . but it comes down to what you uh what you think we should do with the spongey and the fruity looking uh type . if you , the young dynamic people want soft primary colours uh , which looks like fruits you know , you can and shapes that are curved and not uh solid straight lines anymore . so this basically um yeah goes on to what you were mentioning earlier . there is a lot of um factors involved in choosing the components . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : there 's a lot of options that we have to discuss . uh for example the energy source . we have four types . the basic battery . uh we have a hand dynamo , which we yeah we dutch refer to it as the kneipgatt . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : uh the kinetic provision of energy which means if you move the thing , if you shake it . project manager : industrial designer : which will be fun for toddlers right , if they wan na use the </s>
<s> what did the industrial designer recommend to do when discussing personal presentations on the appearance design , the speak recognition system and the ideal materials of the remote control ? </s> industrial designer : and people who want something , you know , different , or more uh design , they can go for one colour project manager : different . mm-hmm . industrial designer : like uh for example this uh photo th camera . project manager : camera . marketing : yeah . cool . s underwater uh project manager : yeah submarine . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : personally i think it 's really ugly . project manager : well user interface : yeah . marketing : </s>
<s> what did the group talk about the shape , the color and the front buttons of the remote control ? </s> marketing : yeah . user interface : but that 's that 's very expensive uh industrial designer : like like you drew here . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and maybe th then make this thicker also than the centre . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : give it project manager : and ergonomical shape . yeah . industrial designer : i would give it a female shape user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but uh yeah . anyway . marketing : yeah . project manager : the female shape yeah . with two uh industrial designer : obviously . make it more appealing to guys . marketing : yeah . user interface : we we could make some some rubber uh some rubber uh yeah mouse , with which you can change uh industrial designer : i mean project manager : oh yeah . some uh k esk uh yeah . user interface : and so if you yeah . marketing : yeah but but that 's optional for later i guess . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : i mean , we have to make industrial designer : yeah but we have hardware inside , which is so it has to have some sort of basic shape . user interface : some yeah . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : yeah we we better so choose one industrial designer : and also the screen , you can not mould it . user interface : no no no no . industrial designer : you know kind of thing . marketing : yeah so okay we should better choose one sh one shape . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but that 's the kind of the idea , industrial designer : and then you can marketing : so it lays good in the hand , and then on on the side with with your thumb , industrial designer : you can place the screen here , which can come . marketing : you you can you can use , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , you can use the button option project manager : so the keywords are primary co colours , spongey ? industrial designer : and but then i w i would marketing : spongey . industrial designer : i would do the arrows here , kind of thing . marketing : spongey can be reached by means of industrial designer : those buttons ? and the simple buttons here , user interface : . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so that user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . and and the and the control thngs in the middle ? the the the arrows ? industrial designer : i uh y eah that 's what i mean . user interface : no the arrow 's over here . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the arrows over here , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and here the s simple uh marketing : yeah and then numbers . project manager : buttons . okay . marketing : yeah . alright . project manager : i think that uh it 's a nice design . marketing : uh pretty nice design . yeah . industrial designer : project manager : it 's cool . marketing : yeah it looks uh pretty fancy . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or do we wan na make its shape look like a banana or something ? user interface : industrial designer : i dunno . marketing : . project manager : yeah that 's user interface : marketing : uh bananas wierd shape and other fruits also , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it 's better to have um some sort of basic print and then a fruit print in some primary uh colours . industrial designer : yeah we could make marketing : i do n't know what what colours should the basic print be like ? like some soft green or something ? project manager : orange or something . marketing : or and then user interface : or blue ? dark blue or marketing : oh yeah yeah , dark blue industrial designer : we should use marketing : and then and then very bright , uh a yellow banana , an orange , uh a green apple , stuff like that , user interface : yeah . marketing : with very uh bright tones i guess . industrial designer : yeah w we need very primary colours , like bright red , bright yellow . marketing : so you have something like project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah but the primary colours w we can uh create with the with the leds on the on the remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah okay yeah . user interface : if you we uh yeah . if you make it uh just a yeah bl give it a blue colour , then it 's just a neutral colour , project manager : user interface : also for the for the more uh yeah for the people . project manager : huh cool . marketing : mm . that does n't really work . to draw , i guess . project manager : no it 's . marketing : oh . what 's this ? project manager : yeah it 's text . user interface : marketing : right . project manager : n no you have to exit . you could also make line with uh user interface : so that 's marketing : yeah . two hours further . project manager : yeah . marketing : thickness . oh . user interface : so that 's blue . marketing : oh . wh why not go for the twenty ? user interface : project manager : mm . yeah . marketing : yeah . that 's what i call painting . project manager : y marketing : so that 's that 's a dark blue basic colour i guess . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah and then on top of that . marketing : it 's pretty nice . and then uh oh project manager : some yellow . marketing : yeah with some some yellow banana project manager : banana colour . industrial designer : and how about some uh some flashing standby lights ? marketing : like . industrial designer : like you have on the samsung , well i do n't like to call brands phones , marketing : industrial designer : the you know that 'cause i remember from one of our first meetings that uh people lose their uh remote controls often . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : so it not not only in in the colours of the leds , that we want something to keep it visible at all times , or marketing : how do you mean ? project manager : yeah if you if flashing colour so you ca n't lose it , basically . industrial designer : um user interface : yeah . marketing : some some industrial designer : yeah . exactly . project manager : well i think it 's a bit too much but user interface : maybe a industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah an orange . well alright well this is more like purple i guess , project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : but it 's should be more real dark blue , so the contrast with the with the fruit objects is uh pretty high . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so uh yeah . that would be a nice uh nice device i guess . user interface : and which which colour should uh should i give the the display ? uh or marketing : i mean , the the colour of the background of the display ? user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : ah well i do n't guess it s has to be a sixty uh sixty six five thousand uh colour , so yeah too expensive . project manager : and then you can use yellow or semething . why not ? aye . user interface : yeah . marketing : so just just a a blue blue backlight or something like that . user interface : mm . yeah . marketing : green is too old-fashioned . but blue , blue 's okay . j industrial designer : as long as you loo use uh high contrast between the the background and the foreground colour . project manager : like this . user interface : maybe a maybe a white a white backlight ? industrial designer : so that people with uh with marketing : white backlight , and dark . user interface : dark uh letters , yeah . marketing : yeah . whatever which is visible . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i know you sh you should test it under uh under a light conditions . i mean it 's hard to tell uh i dunno . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and also for people who are a bit colourblind . project manager : colourblind yeah . marketing : yeah . true . project manager : no so that 's mostly red and green i believe . marketing : which which uh colour should the buttons be ? user interface : that 's adjustable . project manager : woah . all all buttons ? marketing : why adjustable ? user interface : yeah ? or not . project manager : okay . marketing : no uh user interface : that 's how we are going to make it uh more trendy . or is it uh too expensive ? marketing : but maybe i mean they have to they have to have some colour right ? project manager : it 's difficult . marketing : and if the background is very dark blue project manager : blue . maybe green . industrial designer : but do n't we wan na make the background the the bright colo colours ? so th the total of the thing is very bright ? project manager : yeah you can industrial designer : like the pictures i showed you guys . those things were all like like bright red , bright red , flashy . marketing : yeah ? project manager : mm-hmm flashy . marketing : so more like project manager : mm bzz . marketing : does n't work very well . uh . more like this colour . industrial designer : yeah something like that , something that stands out more . marketing : and then then yellow and orange and red objects on it or something . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but then then again , which colour should the buttons be ? the the press buttons . should they be white or black or project manager : red maybe . user interface : and it it looks quite cheap , that colour i think . marketing : uh project manager : black . user interface : it 's it 's not industrial designer : the green ? user interface : yeah . i dunno . marketing : yeah but it 's pretty fresh , on the other side . project manager : yeah . so industrial designer : it 's actually a pretty trendy colour at the moment . user interface : it 's it 's trendy okay . but marketing : yeah . my couch is in that colour . project manager : ooh . . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : well it works pretty well . project manager : marketing : and then time was up . project manager : uh not yet . marketing : uh industrial designer : do you get a pop-up if we marketing : . project manager : yeah within five minutes yeah . marketing : that you have five minutes left or industrial designer : alright . project manager : y left yeah left and then uh i have to kick you out . marketing : so something like this . user interface : yeah . marketing : that should be pretty nice colour . but maybe the buttons , all buttons in red is maybe a bad contrast for colourblind people . project manager : yeah yeah . industrial designer : no that 's actu marketing : because the of the green . user interface : but the but the buttons have their own leds or not ? project manager : they have leds but they have a colour . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : red and green are actually the b the easiest to discriminate . even for colourblind . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : they will see one of each as grey . but if you use uh green on blue , those kind of colours will look the same . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : i think . marketing : so red buttons are okay ? industrial designer : i think so . project manager : you can make them red . user interface : okay . that that 's a default uh setting . the the red buttons . project manager : yeah . but i think you need to keep in mind that the leds are just extra light . marketing : how do you mean ? project manager : uh they they do n't determine the colour that much , i think . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . yeah i i was think about a red uh red leds and blue leds and project manager : 'cause you have to print on them you have a background marketing : no that 's that 's too busy i guess . user interface : yeah . project manager : each number is transparent . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh partly but you have to print on the number . or the the sign . user interface : okay . project manager : so you ca n't change the colour so marketing : you better bet better better keep the led and the button itself in the same colour i guess . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : so just an extra project manager : bit of light . industrial designer : you can marketing : bit of light and attention . project manager : bit of feedback . industrial designer : what we should do i think is is make kind of a see-through plastic button , with uh one coloured led behind it . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so that the whole button will shine project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : as the colour the and if you think about easy to use buttons , we have to , well we have to make it the shape so that it 's easy to hold f for both hands , marketing : industrial designer : but also that you can reach the buttons with your thumb , if you hold the machine . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay with uh do n't mean to discourage you but uh basically you two are going to work on the smartboard . next thirty minutes to design something so industrial designer : ah , right . marketing : alright . project manager : and the you will do the evaluation . marketing : of the product ? project manager : yeah . marketing : which we do n't have yet . project manager : yeah uh about user interface : marketing : so wh how should i do that ? project manager : yeah i do n't know . you probably get a mail . marketing : oh okay . or you you or you send it to me . or just project manager : yeah . once they are finished . yeah . marketing : because you are going to design it on this board right ? project manager : yeah but maybe you can do the evaluation you do n't have to evaluate yet but you can make a procedure which to follow . i do n't know . marketing : yeah . i i probably get instruction on that , how to do that , project manager : yeah . marketing : so i make another presentation i guess . project manager : yeah . marketing : i kn i know what 's gon na happen in in yeah so project manager : about . yeah . you have the basic idea . marketing : i 've a basic idea . project manager : and you two uh are going to do this . look-and-feel and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so we 're gon na work here ? on this sketchboard ? project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : good luck . industrial designer : alright . thanks . marketing : yeah . alright so that 's uh project manager : so i uh make new page and uh be creative . marketing : yeah . user interface : but we have to do it at this moment , after th this meeting ? industrial designer : alright . project manager : yeah you have uh industrial designer : thirty minutes . project manager : thirty minutes . user interface : okay . project manager : then we have to uh see something which we can uh user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : alright . project manager : show to the management . user interface : ah so this is basically the what what we are thinking about ? </s>
<s> why did the marketing disagree with the industrial designer when discussing the shape , the color and the front buttons of the remote control ? </s> industrial designer : those buttons ? and the simple buttons here , user interface : . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so that user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . and and the and the control thngs in the middle ? the the the arrows ? industrial designer : i uh y eah that 's what i mean . user interface : no the arrow 's over here . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the arrows over here , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and here the s simple uh marketing : yeah and then numbers . project manager : buttons . okay . marketing : yeah . alright . project manager : i think that uh it 's a nice design . </s>
<s> what did the user interface elaborate on the shape of the button ? </s> project manager : yeah . marketing : which we do n't have yet . project manager : yeah uh about user interface : marketing : so wh how should i do that ? project manager : yeah i do n't know . you probably get a mail . marketing : oh okay . or you you or you send it to me . or just project manager : yeah . once they are finished . yeah . marketing : because you are going to design it on this board right ? project manager : yeah but maybe you can do the evaluation you do n't have to evaluate yet but you can make a procedure which to follow . i do n't know . marketing : yeah . i i probably get instruction on that , how to do that , project manager : yeah . marketing : so i make another presentation i guess . project manager : yeah . marketing : i kn i know what 's gon na happen in in yeah so project manager : about . yeah . you have the basic idea . marketing : i 've a basic idea . project manager : and you two uh are going to do this . look-and-feel and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so we 're gon na work here ? on this sketchboard ? project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : good luck . industrial designer : alright . thanks . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : would n't wan na be project manager . uh , what we going to do . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : um , once again i 'm uh gon na take minutes . so , um no presentation for me . uh , first we have a prototype presentation by g_ and g_ . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : afterwards some uh marketing : j_ and j_ . project manager : eval eval evalu industrial designer : evaluation . project manager : evaluation user interface : evaluation criteria . marketing : evaluation . project manager : s sorry . industrial designer : project manager : uh evaluation crit criteria . uh , in combination with the finance i um uh i received uh a an uh an excel uh file user interface : project manager : which we have to fill in later on . um , you see . uh , and then we must see uh if we uh stay under the twelve and a half euro . marketing : hmm . interesting . ah , okay . project manager : so , that 's uh that 's a big user interface : oops . marketing : cool . industrial designer : mm-hmm . that 's gon na be t problem . project manager : l so let 's uh wait it uh um marketing : project manager : we have we have must uh , user interface : some creative uh project manager : we must have uh some time for that uh because it will be uh yeah , quite a lot of mathematics . user interface : oh . yeah . project manager : and after that , uh uh an evaluation of uh the process how we uh how we have done it here with the smartboard , with the with our laptops , with the all uh all this . and uh afterwards , uh we closing . once again , forty minutes , so uh let 's start . user interface : ok okay . project manager : i would g give the word to um g_ and g_ for the prototype presentation . user interface : shall i give a short introduction and then uh industrial designer : yeah , well sure . marketing : j_ and j_ . project manager : j_ and j_ . user interface : okay . j_ and j_ , okay . marketing : jane and jane . project manager : marketing : 'kay guys , take it away . user interface : take it away . project manager : marketing : user interface : um , this was our first concept . we decided to use a single touch-screen . so , we 've worked out this concepts , how to how to hold it , where to put the buttons and and stuff . and um , well , we began with uh with a form of shape , that is uh is easy to hold w in one hand , left or right handed . industrial designer : user interface : so , we made i it a little bit less thick and uh it has some ar artistic meaning . no ? this uh is n't nothing . marketing : project manager : user interface : idea maybe uh is better . project manager : user interface : um well , during the meeting i showed you the concept of uh placing the buttons on top , usable with your thumb , and uh the menu structure , uh if necessary , with your other hand , so it 's just gon na hold it easily . project manager : user interface : and it has to be acce accessible with your uh other hand too , of course . project manager : user interface : so we began uh working out a concept . industrial designer : yeah , uh well , and as you saw , we would just have the basic remote with the panel lcd uh screen . well , these would be the main buttons , h you could uh change them later on in your own profile if you want to . but , well it 's standard they will be delivered with this kind of uh set-up . we have the more advanced menu uh setting right here . we have the sub-menus and stu stuff . we made a top oh , or a front view . just so like you wan na uh back view . as you can see , this uh there , there are uh two uh weird bumps in it . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : this is for uh the added uh effect of uh well uh y youth and dynamic . and uh this is for the artistic effect . project manager : industrial designer : well , what we figured is uh we 'll show you a picture later on you have more b a better idea after that . but , idea is for to stay in balance with these two uh with these two . and so when you put it on the table , it will just lay down . it wo n't uh roll around or stuff . but it will lie more in your hand like an old telephone maybe , or like these old uh phones . y you you may get the idea . so thi this is about uh how we figured it should be . the s panel we g you would hide with some more uh rubber layers , like we discussed early on . uh , you would s you would n't see the uh straight panel , but more fluidly and round . user interface : yeah , the panel just uh of course goes like this . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but the overlaying layer is uh a little bit uh curved and stuff . project manager : no , okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : and uh , in these bumps you could actually uh put some electronics uh that would you can make a more thinner uh design , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and that would actually look very nice , yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and uh , about the colour , what have user interface : yeah . oh , we added that this um can be held with your hands for this maximum is om yeah , one and a half centimetres . so , you have room here for your battery and maybe even other um electronic chips . s and you can just be the the layer of the touchscreen and some have some wires underneath it to make it as uh thin as possible in the middle for good grip . marketing : okay . hmm . industrial designer : yeah , f uh , as colours , do you do you have the picture in uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : oh yeah . now , well this is the idea about uh the bumps . uh , you can see there 's a v a very uh youthful uh dynamic uh exterior . it uh you just want to hold it you uh you are young and uh dynamic like us . marketing : 's l it 's like an uh easter egg . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , it 's like an e but this is for children . we we want a more adult version . but , this is like a remote control for children . marketing : project manager : it 's called a weemote industrial designer : . a weemote . marketing : weemote . project manager : weemote . industrial designer : yeah . hey , that 's actually a brilliant uh marketing stand . user interface : project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh , but marketing : wait what i w got in mind . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : so this actually basic the idea . we we just want to build a more uh adult vers adult version of of this . project manager : yeah , i can imagine that . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and and for colours , we we figured starting with basic colours like uh white or metallic grey . those are the technological colours actually , user interface : yeah . it would be best to to appeal to a broad public and make the covers exchangeable , industrial designer : so it d user interface : so the young people will buy an orange and a red and blue and a purple , industrial designer : or blue or whatever . user interface : but when the o older people uh go in the shop and they see uh an orange um remote control , it would be less appealing than a white one . and young people , we think , are a little bit more flexible , they think , ah i 'll buy for a couple of euros some noi nice hip uh marketing : hmm . maybe it 's an idea to sell it without a cover , so that you can pick a cover in the in the shop . user interface : well , um i think a cover is necessary , 'cause als otherwise you 'll just have the lcd screen . marketing : yeah , okay . yeah , okay . user interface : so , there must be some cheap standard cover , um maybe white or something , marketing : hmm . mm . user interface : that 's could comes with it and you can buy , so we can make extra money . project manager : yeah , but uh you d you must n't forget that uh our target aim is younger people . marketing : oui okay . project manager : uh , we had decided to uh put uh some flashy fruity colours in it , uh and uh in the survey from uh milan and paris uh it uh it came out that uh uh the d the older people are uh more willing to uh to spend money on extra features . so i think uh it will be a better idea to have some uh flashy fruity colours as as a standard , user interface : okay . the other way around , you mean . industrial designer : oh yeah . project manager : and for the people who uh really want uh a more sophisticated , more traditional look , they 're willing to pay uh that . user interface : uh-huh . project manager : they want uh they want more luxury stuff , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but they have the money to do it and they want to b to buy that . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so , maybe it 's an idea to put that as an extra and not as a standard . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , maybe yeah , perhaps you 're right . uh , i i would i would actually agree with this sounds logical . user interface : okay , yeah . marketing : an another idea . uh , maybe we could uh develop a cover uh with wood style . project manager : yeah . marketing : they 'll please the elder users as well . project manager : yeah . user interface : well yeah , a colour of a wood style , a white c and uh a couple of h hip uh fruity colours . project manager : yeah . user interface : and lea uh l delivered standard with a fruity colour , but not too not too much . industrial designer : nah . yeah . marketing : yes . not not too uh yeah . user interface : this is banana and mango , not not purple or p orange and yellow . marketing : yeah , exactly . project manager : yeah . but , the mai i think th uh the standard must be some kind of uh uh attractive flashy colours . marketing : yeah . or blue or project manager : not too , but w a little , user interface : ah . mm-hmm . project manager : because that 's our aim . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : li like like this like this . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : this is n't this is n't too much , is it ? user interface : yeah , okay . no . yeah . marketing : . project manager : well , the buttons do n't have to be uh all uh all of industrial designer : yeah . the buttons , marketing : well i i i think so . industrial designer : i marketing : yeah , except for the buttons it 's it could be a standard model . project manager : yeah . it yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah , uh something like this would be nice . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay , that 's that 's it from us . project manager : thank you . marketing : 'kay , it 's my time now . user interface : it 's my turn . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : the marketing expert . industrial designer : uh-oh . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : marketing : okay . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : during the user interface : industrial designer : marketing : oh . during the design uh design life-cycle we uh project manager : sorry . user interface : marketing : we made lot of requirements and trend analysis and stuff . um , now is the time to uh evaluate our prototype concept to uh to the past requirements . so we are going to evaluate the design according to the past user requirements and trends analysis . um , we 're going to do that with a seven point scale . opening a word document now . okay . one oh , okay , uh i have to expla explain something . we have to uh be consensive about about things . so , it has to be a group uh group decision . project manager : okay , marketing : okay ? project manager : so we gon we gon na evaluate the marketing : uh we 're going to vote . we project manager : yeah , the the thing we saw . marketing : yeah ? the prototype . project manager : okay , just saw . marketing : yeah . okay , one . the remote control is designed for people with age below forty . project manager : yeah . seven ? marketing : user interface : marketing : seven is false . project manager : uh , true . sorry . marketing : yeah , b one or project manager : yeah , one i think . marketing : most true ? industrial designer : yeah , it 's not just uh designed for people under the age of forty . it 's also designed for people above forty . marketing : yeah , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so industrial designer : so marketing : so a o one is appropriate ? user interface : no no , a little more in the middle . marketing : or , more like a four . user interface : no , uh three or yeah . industrial designer : i have i 've marketing : three . industrial designer : yeah , two or three , because it 's not just uh the qu question is aimed at is it designed for people with age below forty . project manager : okay . industrial designer : but it 's also designed for people of age above forty . so , marketing : ah , exactly . exactly . industrial designer : i 'll say it 's about three . user interface : yeah , project manager : okay . user interface : it will be primary appealing to to m minus forty , but also appealing to marketing : three . project manager : marketing : yeah . but also for yeah , okay . uh , second . the remote control is beautiful . user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : it 's industrial designer : marketing : yeah , acco according to us , it 's one ? or project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , industrial designer : yeah , i i think user interface : it 's the marketing uh angle on television . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , user interface : we have a wonderful marketing : p s of c of course you have to be uh very positive and uh enthusiastic about your own product . user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : well , it 's also fancy then . marketing : three . uh , the remote control looks fancy . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . of course . we have a perfect remote . marketing : good . four . the remote control has big , clear channel switching buttons . user interface : yes . yeah yeah , oh they have to agree but industrial designer : yeah . leads to user face , yeah . user interface : i 'm the user interface uh expert . marketing : daniel . uh , teletext buttons and volume buttons ? user interface : um , uh no . project manager : no teletext buttons . teletext is in the menu . user interface : you you 've different menu . industrial designer : yeah , false . marketing : false ? user interface : and volume is impo marketing : and volume ? project manager : volume is true . user interface : yeah . marketing : true . industrial designer : uh , hmm . marketing : big and clear ? project manager : industrial designer : yeah , the they are big and clear . . user interface : yeah yeah , big and clear . project manager : yeah , big and clear . user interface : but you could make a teletext button uh six . otherwise , the people who read this uh are gon na think we have no teletext button . marketing : hey . hide . project manager : industrial designer : yeah , but but the teletext button . yeah , you can ch that 's in a menu . marketing : it 's it 's not industrial designer : so , it 's w yeah , it it it marketing : yeah , it industrial designer : it is n't entirely unclear , but so , i would n't give it a seven . i would give it a more a five or a six . user interface : yeah . marketing : five ? industrial designer : uh , i don i do n't know . marketing : okay . industrial designer : what do you think , uh mister project manager ? marketing : yeah , it 's it 's yeah . project manager : oh , okay . well , i agree . i was thinking very black and white . marketing : user interface : black and red . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : project manager : thank you j_ . industrial designer : user interface : okay , do n't forget to save it . uh project manager : industrial designer : marketing : red . okay . volume . the remote control is easy to be found . user interface : uh well , when we put in fancy colours , yeah project manager : fruity . user interface : and marketing : industrial designer : yeah , it has these all these fruity colours and it has a strange shape . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so , if you so if you have trouble finding it user interface : but , um it it 's not making any sound uh , marketing : user interface : have we deciding ? marketing : oh , okay , user interface : so marketing : but if you put uh your normal uh remote control under your bed , or you throw this remote control under your bed , is it better findable ? user interface : it 'll make a difference . we have the better re i do n't know . yeah , i think so . my remote control 's black . marketing : a li little bit maybe ? user interface : a little bit , but yeah . project manager : yeah . well , we p we can do it glow in the dark . marketing : four ? user interface : uh project manager : so , if it 's in the dark place , you still see it glowing . user interface : k yeah . marketing : i user interface : fo fo yeah fo five is . marketing : ah , i i i think five . it 's it 's it does n't really make a lot of industrial designer : well , then uh then i 'll go for four . marketing : four ? industrial designer : because uh four is between three and uh uh also between between true and false . user interface : yeah , okay , you 're right . marketing : yes , but five is between four and six . project manager : i think industrial designer : so i 'll i 'll go for four . project manager : ah , you must see it as uh , w uh according to uh the the other uh remote controls , there may uh uh be there in your uh tv room , this one will stand out , i think . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that that 's a better question actually . marketing : yeah , project manager : exa i think that that 's what it 's about . user interface : yeah . marketing : it it 's user interface : if your uh fifteen remotes in a drawer , uh you find it , yeah ? project manager : if it if this lying on your couch , you 're you 're you think what 's that for kinda orange uh thing . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : so marketing : but but the survey under users was that they uh really lost it . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's stupid . industrial designer : marketing : like , no not uh not seeing it , but lost it in the house or something . project manager : okay . user interface : uh , but when you lost it you 're just not marketing : but , okay . industrial designer : well , if i if you see a strange shape lying somewhere , uh then you 'd uh recognise it as , whoa , that is strange . project manager : that 's our remote control . user interface : yeah , mostly when you lose your remote control , it it 's under your marketing : yeah , okay . yeah , i i agree , i agree . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , what is that . uh , user interface : most of times when you lose it you 're sitting on it . uh industrial designer : so it 's marketing : okay . eight , the remote control has fresh , fruity colours . project manager : true . user interface : um i would call uh choose two , industrial designer : user interface : 'cause we decided not to make two f uh fresh colours , as it would not . marketing : yeah , yeah , not too flashy . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : the remote control is made of soft material . project manager : industrial designer : yeah , rubber , is kind of soft . project manager : yeah , but not too soft we have decided . user interface : kinda soft , but but not this . yeah . marketing : three ? project manager : three , yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah yeah , easy to use , project manager : easy to use . one . user interface : very afford . marketing : easy to use ? project manager : yeah , can it be zero ? industrial designer : well , i don yeah , it is kind of marketing : top easy to use ? industrial designer : it marketing : it 's it 's not the most easy to use user interface : no , you can do two , because um industrial designer : no . uh marketing : it can be easier . user interface : it can be easier . but then you 're l industrial designer : it could yeah . marketing : jus just with ten buttons , that 's the easiest . user interface : yeah , but then you 'll lose project manager : yeah . user interface : function f yeah , functionality and our fancy uh look , so . industrial designer : functional ability . marketing : yeah , but the most uh easy to use is just with one button user interface : but it is r it is rather easy to use , because you have the primary buttons always visible . project manager : marketing : on t yeah , okay , but easy n not not the most easy to use , i think . industrial designer : . no , it 's it i i 'll go for two . my vote 's on two . project manager : okay , two . yeah , two . user interface : yeah , m mine too . marketing : we also have to compare it to the uh to the remote controls on the market nowadays . so user interface : yeah , but waits just a minutes . inspiration . project manager : what 's the time ? we also have uh to do the evaluation , uh the production costs and uh stuff . user interface : these are the m regular remotes . marketing : yeah yeah , i 'm uh hurrying . project manager : marketing : okay , eleven . the remote control is innovative . project manager : yeah . user interface : yes , true , one . project manager : you 're agree , tim ? marketing : a very of course . project manager : you have n't seen a more innovative uh thing in uh paris ? marketing : the remote control has m remova removable from multilux . industrial designer : user interface : yes , one . very multifunctional . project manager : marketing : the remote control , i it has speech recognition . project manager : false . marketing : false . industrial designer : it user interface : this is used with speech recognition , this . marketing : the remote control has built-in games ? project manager : user interface : yes . but uh , maybe make it two , because the games are in a sub-menu and not uh it 's not an entire game . project manager : yeah , but they are built in , so it 's one . industrial designer : yeah , they are built in . user interface : yeah , okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : not down . marketing : and the last , paren parental advisory function . industrial designer : you really like the parental advisory . project manager : freak . marketing : yes , i do . user interface : th did you make this or the marketing : save as . industrial designer : yeah , he made it . user interface : yeah , it changes it maybe . marketing : okay , i will uh user interface : oh yay . marketing : do the the math . user interface : oh dear . marketing : now it 's your turn . project manager : okay , thank you . marketing : project manager : we 'll see . mm . okay , we have now to c uh to calculate the production cost . if it 's under uh twelve and half euro , then it 's uh ok uh okay . but i is it if it is b huh ? no , this is n't right . okay so , . redesign . user interface : if they 're under twelve fifty . project manager : oh yeah , if they under yeah . no . oh yeah . yeah , it 's user interface : yeah ? cau 'cause so it 's okay . industrial designer : project manager : sorry . yeah , if the costs are under twelve and a half euro , uh then we uh can uh ra uh move on to the project evaluation , as we have uh experienced it . otherwise , we have uh do uh have to do a little uh redesign uh thingy . so uh , we have to fill in the numbers of the component uh components . we have to uh fil uh , want to uh do it in and uh see uh if we stay under the twelve and a half euro . so , do we have uh a hand dynamo ? no . that 's zero . industrial designer : me , too . user interface : battery , yes . one . project manager : battery , one ? user interface : one , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . kinetic , one ? user interface : kinetic , one . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay , solar cells , zero . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , uh simple chip on print ? industrial designer : uh , n no . project manager : no ? no , advanced chip . marketing : advanced chip . project manager : sample sensor sample speaker ? user interface : no , the advanced chip is uh marketing : advanced chip is three . project manager : three ? marketing : three euros , yep . project manager : yeah uh , but it it 's one one thing , it 's three euro . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh , we have one . we have one marketing : okay , one piece , yeah . industrial designer : . project manager : uh , what 's the sample sensor ? industrial designer : no , sev zero . well , that 's um marketing : speech recognition , i think . user interface : yeah , you give it a sample , uh one . industrial designer : yeah , speech recognition project manager : okay . zero . uh , uncurved flat . industrial designer : a zero . project manager : but is it s it 's not made from a single uncurved thingy and then uh and then uh user interface : you no . industrial designer : no . no . marketing : thingy . project manager : no ? okay . so it 's only uh once double-curved . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , 'cause um the layer around it fits around the bubbles on the o on the uh the back of the marketing : three . eight . project manager : okay . we 're now in a problem , 'cause uh we have uh reached eleven euro yet . industrial designer : user interface : uh , we do n't have anything else . so industrial designer : marketing : okay , go on . just go on . project manager : okay , but uh we have industrial designer : just go on . then we 'll see uh we 'll we 'll see uh wha how much we are over budget . project manager : okay . user interface : could you step a little to the right ma yeah . oh , sorry . project manager : uh , rubber . user interface : or industrial designer : zero . project manager : titanium , no ? user interface : and zero . special uh is the special colour ? project manager : special colour ? industrial designer : i do n't think so . no , this is a standard colour . project manager : yeah , but we want to make uh the wood colours , uh that uh user interface : yeah . marketing : s industrial designer : yes , this is a special colour . user interface : yeah , if if you 're honest , we 'll uh type one , special colour . marketing : yeah , but but d but daniel , tha that 's that 's another brand . industrial designer : that 's an add-on . project manager : yeah , one . marketing : that 's another article to sell . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , but we we going to yeah yeah , that 's true . but yeah , it 's it 's it user interface : uh , j maybe we 'll finish uh the the list first and then look back , aye ? marketing : that does n't account for this . producing this . project manager : okay , the push-button , no . user interface : no . scroll wheel , no . project manager : scroll-wheel , no . user interface : no . project manager : no . oh , no . yes , one . user interface : project manager : uh , button , no . user interface : one , yeah . project manager : no , the the user interface : mm , is it project manager : we do n't have a s user interface : no . no . industrial designer : these three . project manager : no . okay . industrial designer : well , we 're only four euro over budget . project manager : oh , okay . so , um what 's the thing we can change ? user interface : so industrial designer : but user interface : no . no . industrial designer : well , other case , we can make it single-curved or uncurved . project manager : uh , can i uh i say something ? user interface : mm , single-curves . marketing : yeah . project manager : no , can i say something uh as project manager ? marketing : yeah , of course . user interface : yeah . project manager : the kinetic thing , can we just skip it , user interface : just cut off the kine yeah . project manager : because uh you have to shake it , but that 's not really innovative . user interface : or industrial designer : yeah . okay , sure . user interface : yeah . yeah , we just put a good battery it it . marketing : yeah . user interface : mobile phones nowadays . project manager : yeah . marketing : daniel . daniel , project manager : yo . sorry , marketing : what do you think about here . project manager : yeah , yes . marketing : what do you think about uh putting a battery in it , but also selling like uh the covers , a docking station project manager : yeah . marketing : just apart from the from the thing , so that you can uh put uh project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : rechargeable batteries in it and just project manager : okay . user interface : but you can use rechargeable batteries anyway , just you s you have to recharge them manual . project manager : yeah , and not really . marketing : yeah , yeah , okay . project manager : but we if you forget about the kinetic , marketing : just an idea . user interface : yeah , that 's a cost reduc industrial designer : yeah , sure . marketing : yeah . project manager : well if we do that , we shall . user interface : ah . industrial designer : okay , project manager : so um industrial designer : well you you can go from double-curved to single-curved . marketing : yeah , of course . industrial designer : and that would solve the budget problem . project manager : uh , b but i but the single-curved is just oh user interface : yeah , so we have to bake the ba back flat , and then industrial designer : yeah . user interface : no , it 's it 's just one curve and not a back uh curved i think . or industrial designer : it 's just yeah well , the single-curve that project manager : oh , okay , okay . industrial designer : yeah . exactly , yeah . project manager : so that 's wh tha that 's one option . user interface : or are these two curves ? uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : and then w yeah , and then we could have it , but uh it 's its ' well it 's it 's r it is the main point of the the the the look . marketing : yeah , user interface : yeah , but what else uh do we have to cut out ? no advanced chip , uh that 's a little bit of problem . industrial designer : we going to cut project manager : no , tho uh that that can be done . marketing : yeah . project manager : so uh , user interface : although , can we make it with a regular chip ? project manager : okay , a little less uh conversation . user interface : curvy . marketing : hey , those ar arcs , why are there for ? project manager : sorry ? marketing : the blue blue uh project manager : fill in just a user interface : explanation . marketing : okay . project manager : explanation . user interface : twelve fifty . project manager : i can delete it for you if you want . user interface : well industrial designer : marketing : no , no no . project manager : so , if we do this , uh we 're on uh twelve and a half euro . and we 're done . user interface : yeah , but does it fit with our design ? project manager : uh well , the only uh thing that do n't user interface : do we have to u adapt it ? it 's single-curves . project manager : yeah , single-curved , but there 's a curve in it . so marketing : yeah . user interface : w could we just make the bubbles uh cut off the back , and then we 're uh has industrial designer : yeah , we just make it flat . user interface : okay . industrial designer : but , you do l marketing : but , wha 'kay , look , what is the uh if you make it double-curved , it costs one euro more . user interface : more . yeah . you make it optional . marketing : but no , but does it have a lot of extra uh industrial designer : function . user interface : functional . marketing : fun function more like industrial designer : worth , does it have added worth ? user interface : uh , there 's an a a athe aesthetic value , but not functionality . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : no , um project manager : yeah , it 's really a static value . yeah . marketing : yeah , uh aesthetic . i mean , uh you make like eleven and a half euros profit instead of twelve and a half . but i do n't know if twelve and a half is uh a fixed uh fixed price . project manager : yeah , it is . oh . industrial designer : yeah , well let 's assume it is . marketing : no , we ca n't go above that . industrial designer : we we should assume it i that it is . marketing : yeah ? project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but i i figured that the kinetic would be a marketing promotion . marketing : yeah , okay . then it 's okay . industrial designer : r if you uh promote a kinetic um i kinetic remote control , i mean , that would b sell better than an a normal remote control . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : do you think ? well , now you can shake your remote control . marketing : yeah , i think so . industrial designer : no , well , y i mean uh , y you can go into your neighbour and tell him , ha , my k uh remote control is kinetic . project manager : kinetic . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you have standard old battery control uh remote con marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : what a what about all the m the environment freaks ? user interface : yeah , but it does n't fit in our co cost profile . so marketing : not freaks , industrial designer : marketing : the envi no . industrial designer : true . marketing : i i think it 's it 's it look like this one . user interface : you ma can make an an especialised extra gold version . project manager : yeah ? who because if you want to go to kinetic , you 're uh you 're on thirteen and a half and you must go to flat , marketing : project manager : and i think now it 's it 's more of uh a compromise user interface : yeah . project manager : thing . marketing : yeah . project manager : and if you make the single curve ha just a big curve , then it 's uh then it 's uh marketing : user interface : yeah , just one big curve . project manager : yeah , one big good curve . industrial designer : project manager : i was going to uh say nasty words , but i do n't . industrial designer : project manager : this is strange by the way . marketing : project manager : wood is m is is is cheaper than rubber . we thought that wood would be more expensive . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh , this uh american figures . you just cut down some trees . project manager : yeah , maybe . but uh that this is this is it ? yeah . okay , this is it . marketing : this is it . user interface : whoever makes uh a remote control out of titanium . project manager : i 'm gon na save it . yeah . user interface : yes . industrial designer : it is possible , but you ca n't use double uh curves for titanium . that 's one of the functionability uh project manager : okay , well , considering we have marketing : ah no , we have to do all those hours again . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : go back . one back ? costs on uh no redesign . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : well , we were above , so we did a little redesign marketing : yeah . user interface : we sue . we yeah , we 'll start her all o all over again . marketing : yeah , okay , yeah . project manager : okay , um now uh it 's about time to uh talk about uh this project . uh , some uh things . were there uh room for uh was there room for creativity in our meetings or in your individual meetings ? user interface : um marketing : hmm . i i did n't think so . that there was a lot of room for it . but , that 's mainly because uh of the information that was delivered to us . project manager : yeah . marketing : it was just fixed information and get your stuff from there , and i could n't go on on i on the internet and search my own stuff . bu project manager : yeah . yeah , yeah , yeah . that 's true . i agree with that . industrial designer : well , i th i think you two , uh especially you and uh and uh daniel , you d you you both had uh the less creative uh roles in the project . project manager : yeah . that 's true . marketing : yeah . user interface : for us , there was a lot of creativity . industrial designer : 'cause i think m user interface : we could just sign up an uh remote if we liked . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , that 's true . industrial designer : i think jeroen and i , we had a more design we could have more we had more room for creativity than than you two . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . yeah , that 's true . project manager : okay . uh how about the leadership ? user interface : uh industrial designer : ha . marketing : leadership was uh crappy . project manager : user interface : crappy . cra industrial designer : nah , the leadership was n't crappy , it was the leader that was crappy . project manager : okay , thank you very much . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : nah . no , the leadership was okay . marketing : project manager : now we 're done . user interface : yeah , example of crappy leadershi marketing : no , leadership was uh user interface : okay , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , it was good . marketing : okay , i thought uh the first meeting was a little bit of unstructured meeting . project manager : yeah , that 's true . marketing : uh , you could have but uh , it was your first , no uh no disrespect or something , project manager : industrial designer : marketing : but you could have uh structure it a l little bit more . project manager : yeah . marketing : so like , i i was talking most of the time the first meeting meeting , and user interface : you could of said , shut up you fool . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . i notice it too . marketing : but project manager : i was a i was also very uh unhappy , uh very unsatisfied uh about the marketing : about me . project manager : about the first meeting . industrial designer : project manager : so , uh i hope uh uh the the the other meetings uh industrial designer : try to learn from your mistake . and we will never do it again . marketing : yeah , you made up . project manager : get better and uh i think the the last two meetings uh also we we reached uh some good decisions about uh talk marketing : no , it you did better . user interface : yeah , more more consensus . project manager : yeah . user interface : ev everybody w was agreeing every marketing : yeah . much more constructive . project manager : okay , so uh that 's cool . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh , teamwork ? well , maybe that 's uh only yeah well , it 's for us , because uh user interface : well , we work together on a project , but everybody has his own task . project manager : yeah . yeah and it 's wo more like presentation and some points were discussed . user interface : so , it is a little bit marketing : project manager : but , really teamwork were you two uh user interface : yeah . no well , it went okay . marketing : two guys . project manager : the industrial designer : yeah , that went w it went well . project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : it 's it 's just uh user interface : stupid stupid pen , but uh project manager : no hard feelings . industrial designer : nah . yeah , we we had some trouble with the pen , but project manager : yeah . now you you must push a little while . user interface : yeah , but but draw something uh difficult . industrial designer : yeah , but us user interface : d uh just write your name right now . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : try to write your name , project manager : okay . user interface : in in writing letters , of course , yeah ? yeah , normally , uh this uh the w block letter sign it , yeah ? project manager : o just uh user interface : just just write your name in in one line . project manager : okay . user interface : if it 's a little bit too small bit quicker now . project manager : you can be you can go quicker , 'cause then it it wo n't notice it . user interface : it did n't uh he he knows how it works , yeah . industrial designer : oh . project manager : i follow the master class for the smartboard , so i think that 's the that 's the main issue . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay . project manager : um , so uh about this one you were uh you 're dealing with , marketing : means . industrial designer : project manager : um the the the the digital pen . user interface : y well , yeah . th the i the idea is great , but it does n't work properly . uh project manager : okay . yeah . marketing : digital pen , i thought uh th the first time i did individual work , i used it . project manager : yeah . marketing : but , a and the first two meetings i brought it with me , but i did n't use it at all after the first the first meeting . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : no , i have it working . but , uh yeah , well uh marketing : it 's it 's not real real use for me . industrial designer : no , it does n't have that much added value to the project manager : huh . well user interface : nee . as uh as i said a m a c few moments ago , it i would like , myself , to write with a normal pen , because must um yeah , it 's almost the same concept , but you can just sim more simply put it on our scanner . project manager : yeah . user interface : i it 's the same concept as the pen , where you f have to download the software or s uh very uh slow . project manager : m yeah . yeah . and it is still your own handwriting uh popping up in uh word . user interface : yes . no , and it does n't give any added value . project manager : no , uh that 's true . no . marketing : not really , no . project manager : and uh the smartboard is uh useful , but the the pen is i uh not user-friendly , i think . user interface : yeah , not user-friendly . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : be it it takes a lot of time to draw things and to write things , marketing : user interface : yeah , and it 's it 's not very precise . project manager : and that 's the user interface : we 're trying to m to marketing : yeah , like when you do this . user interface : yeah , it may um yeah , and tr try to wri write your name uh in a in a normal uh size , yeah . smaller . marketing : smaller ? user interface : yeah , smaller . just like when you 're writing on a letter . project manager : yeah , but that 's not th the the you when you at a foreign audience , you b do n't gon na wr uh write uh small . user interface : no , a as you saw on on this drawing , just open open this one or that one . it 's uh th it it yeah , uh we had more problems even here when we trying to draw these buttons , it 's almost impossible to get clear uh when you 're uh project manager : yeah . marketing : oh . sorry . project manager : but maybe there 's some function with no , it is n't . with uh user interface : and the eraser was another problem . it w t is is this large . and when you try to erase this line , y project manager : yeah . well , i 'm gon na erase my uh name . user interface : i 'm gon na erase my name there . project manager : yeah , it 's a big uh big eraser . marketing : okay . new ideas ? user interface : m abo what kind of new ideas ? project manager : um well , the the idea of the touch-screen is uh marketing : do you ? user interface : yeah , uh project manager : marketing : go on . project manager : i 'm just uh user interface : new ideas about uh the working of this software , about about the project , about the remote controls or marketing : yeah . mm , yeah , i think so . project manager : i do n't know what what i mean . no . user interface : hello . industrial designer : marketing : did you heard what he said ? industrial designer : know what i mean . marketing : i do n't i do n't know what i mean . oh , i have some figure . industrial designer : marketing : here . project manager : oh . marketing : the eva the evaluation , project manager : oh yeah . marketing : the mm the mean uh number is uh one point eight one point eight six . project manager : that 's interesting . marketing : so that 's fairly uh fairly good , i think . project manager : okay , user interface : yeah . project manager : because what does it mean ? user interface : so true . marketing : uh , that uh project manager : all the mo yeah , are between one and two . marketing : all the requirements uh are true or very true , right . yep . project manager : yeah . oh , okay . yeah , okay . thank you , expert . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : but the new ideas found for uh wi with working with this uh software ? user interface : not really , just they have to improve it . project manager : not really , yeah ? user interface : uh , the concept is okay , project manager : yeah , i think user interface : but it has to be quicker . uh , it is still opening my programme , n almo almost uh my entire computer is locked up during the process project manager : yeah . user interface : and it , yeah , just takes too many time . people will still feel the need to to write it quickly on uh a page and not download it and save it , and project manager : yeah . you had expected it to to be uh more more uh user interface : more user-friendly . project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause when you use a pen , you can just draw like you d draw normally , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : and you do marketing : may maybe the idea you proposed is uh a screen here . user interface : yeah . marketing : and draw it , and it 's it 's placed over there . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , that l project manager : yeah . user interface : would be easier . or at least when you you do n't have to adapt to the technology , just you can write in the way you normally write . and now you have to um keep constantly in mind that you 're drawing on this screen . marketing : hmm ? no . user interface : and that 's a very bad concept . project manager : yep , yep . yeah , that 's true . marketing : ah , very bad . user interface : nah , okay , i i it 's my opinion that i marketing : but i think this is better than regular flip-overs , but user interface : yeah , it 's can be saved easier . marketing : yeah . user interface : but if you 're in normal flip-over you a lot of people write text . there 's no text option . marketing : yeah . user interface : and writing text uh , yeah , you 've got ta really do your best to write some project manager : yeah , and and maybe some uh functions for uh uh uh circle or uh a square . you have to draw it yourself now . user interface : yeah . or maybe even insert picture . marketing : yeah . user interface : if you have uh some presentation , and you have some f project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or text function . just t t type text , and that that would be uh excellent . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mean marketing : yeah , but insert image is n't available ? user interface : 'cause then you could marketing : here . picture from scanner , clip-art . project manager : yeah , that that can be done already . user interface : oh , okay . project manager : but not the the the the predefined uh squares i think uh user interface : so you can marketing : hyperlink ? hey , what if you do like hyperlink ? user interface : with uh w_w_ dot google dot com . marketing : type type it ? user interface : oh yeah . maybe . marketing : re real reaction dot n_l_ . project manager : hmm ? sorry ? marketing : yes , is now is okay . okay ? user interface : you 'll just make a link in yeah . project manager : well , that 's nice . user interface : there 's one way to uh project manager : is it marketing : 'kay , double-click it . user interface : maybe if if you 're not using the eraser project manager : here . oh . oh , sorry . marketing : you 're erasing . user interface : something else th yeah , arrow . project manager : yeah . here , that . marketing : double-click it . user interface : okay . project manager : so you have user interface : well , it 's project manager : as you saw , you have a little uh oh , you can yeah , thank you . you can go uh user interface : yeah , okay . project manager : there . so there the the the functionality is there , but it 's not it 's not ideal , user interface : but project manager : and it 's it 's very user interface : . project manager : it costs a lot of time to uh user interface : to use , yeah . project manager : to use . and that 's a pity , marketing : yeah . project manager : if you uh if you have uh thirty , forty minutes uh for this kind of things , user interface : yeah . project manager : and we are now with four people , user interface : and that 's m project manager : but it well , imagine you are here you 're with the ten people and everyone uh user interface : that 's mostly the case , from the over here with the managements you get two minutes to make your case , project manager : yeah . user interface : and if you have to do all this kind project manager : two minutes of drawing , yeah . user interface : you 'll rather use powerpoint and work it out in advance . project manager : yeah . user interface : and th the one or two things you have to draw when you 're there , just use a flip-board . project manager : yeah . marketing : what i really miss also is uh industrial designer : project manager : marketing : is a d is a turtle industrial designer : marketing : is a decision uh decision system like um with the evaluation , you have to polls like , what do you want , a one , a two , project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : maybe a a l a little application like uh uh give your own number and click one two three four five six seven . project manager : yeah , just like he said with the with the a screen which you can write , also uh a kind of voting uh mechanism . marketing : yeah , j ju ju yeah , v voting application . project manager : yeah . marketing : just a little group group decision application . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but uh , problem is , well you ca n't discuss anything well you you ca uh you can , but you will discuss a lot less than l like we did now . we i mean uh w w w one one person s maybe said three . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but , well uh i we said uh , no i w th think two , because this and this , and then you can react uh on it . marketing : yeah , okay . industrial designer : but if you you put a three on it , uh just figure well , everybody knows what i 'm knowing , so they 'll all just put a two on . marketing : yeah , of course . but , uh you can still discuss about it , industrial designer : yeah , but it would yeah . marketing : but but click it in an application , that 's a lot easier to process . industrial designer : yeah okay , the for processing part . marketing : the digit . yeah . industrial designer : but then uh , i think the idea of one person entering it and the rest uh discussing it , that uh is n't that bad idea , actually . project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : not that your opinion is n't valued , but but still . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . okay , so user interface : okay . marketing : okay . user interface : yo , manager . marketing : that 's it ? project manager : uh well , just about , user interface : when are w industrial designer : project manager : because uh marketing : user interface : when are we going to produce it ? project manager : yeah , tomorrow ? uh , the costs are within the budget . marketing : celebration . project manager : uh , the project is evaluated . marketing : yeah . project manager : but , before we going to celebrate , uh i have uh a little question which you ca n't answer , marketing : yeah . project manager : because uh there must be some kind of end report . i am busy with the end report right now . you might thinking what the hell was he doing uh marketing : what is an end report ? project manager : uh about all the meetings , what we have decided , a r r a report of this day . marketing : yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : uh , that must be made , but i do n't know , here is uh standing uh whoa , we can celebrate now , but the end report is marketing : oh , you ha you have ten minutes left , i uh read . you have now ten minutes left to finish up the end report . project manager : okay well , that uh that can be done . maybe we can do it uh together . you can see what i 've uh yeah ? marketing : yeah . project manager : so i i s i will uh put it on a story-board . industrial designer : yeah , sure . project manager : you can see it . because i think it will uh it must be uh marketing : um you you already made a beta version , or project manager : yeah , it 's a three uh with seventy five uh marketing : pages . project manager : yeah , just about . industrial designer : y yikes . seventy five pages . project manager : well , just a moment . end report . marketing : okay , daniel . industrial designer : marketing : do you want a chair maybe ? user interface : a chairman . industrial designer : project manager : no no no , i 'm just uh marketing : oh , okay . project manager : you can s you can read it and uh here here it is . end report . industrial designer : so you you finished it actually , and so we just have to read it and say yes or no ? project manager : well , this not nit it user interface : yes . project manager : read-only . but it 's not uh fully finished yet . marketing : five minutes for finishing . project manager : um , this is about the functional design , the things yeah yeah . marketing : management expert , you have to change that . project manager : oh yeah . i 'm uh when i said it , i remember i had it here . marketing : marketing . user interface : it 's a read-only version . marketing : yeah , but you can save it u the under another name . user interface : oh , okay . project manager : marketing expert , okay . um about the three functions where uh which are most used and uh which must uh immediately be visible on our uh remote control . um , it must be uh simple to use , very clear what to do , and at the younger people . so , this is really about wh uh what kind things uh must be in it and uh yeah . marketing : maybe um the user interface : uh project manager : yeah , i understand you , i can talk a little bit dutch . marketing : the yeah . user interface : marketing : you yeah . industrial designer : marketing : no , you have to put uh , switch channels uh at the top , because that 's the most used function and teletext at the second project manager : oka okay , okay , i i really did n't knew that . marketing : oh nay , a volume changing , second . project manager : so , this one 's first . marketing : s switch , yes . project manager : you go there and you go there . so , okay . marketing : yeah . okay , go on . project manager : well , maybe i can then do it one two three . marketing : yes , very good . user interface : one two three . project manager : if the order is in uh is is uh important , marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : that 's the word for . marketing : the order . project manager : then the conceptual design . uh , well all the things we have uh discussed , uh the energy , which uh turn out to be uh batteries , so that 's user interface : yeah . well , okay , maybe you can add it later that we decided in the end because of the cost . project manager : yeah , because yeah . uh , he here it is still double-curve , the rubber , the flashy , the fruity , the removable . marketing : single-curves . project manager : uh , the buttons industrial designer : it 's not double . project manager : hmm ? user interface : a single-curved . industrial designer : uh , it 's not double anymore , eh ? project manager : not double anymore . marketing : no , okay . project manager : nay but that this is what um industrial designer : yeah , okay . marketing : was initial , the plan . the initial plan . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and the the added functions like tetris snake , it 's under the parental control , the touch-screen . industrial designer : project manager : so , it 's uh just a summary of what uh we had discussed uh industrial designer : on thing uh one small thing uh , the added functions . uh , was it included in the cost ? i do n't think so , eh ? user interface : ah , it 's very cheap . project manager : uh , it 's very cheap , industrial designer : it 's very cheap . marketing : project manager : you you maybe you you you you come at uh marketing : no , it 's it 's not very cheap , but that project manager : it 's very necessary . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : no , but it 's a development inside corporation . like , uh w we do n't have to buy parental control . our own people can make that , i think . project manager : yeah , but it still has some user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , it it has some cost , but project manager : yeah . okay , but so we can discuss that uh user interface : he 'll do it in his free time . so uh project manager : we can discuss that kind of things i think with the with the the board of uh industrial designer : marketing : yeah . user interface : of directur or directors . project manager : what 's it what 's the company called ? i just keep forgetting it . marketing : real reaction . project manager : real real reaction . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : yeah . project manager : real reaction , yeah . user interface : you can ask your personal industrial designer : project manager : okay , so uh anybody uh misses something here about uh user interface : yeah , the end conclusion . project manager : yeah , okay , user interface : but uh project manager : that 's that 's what i 'm gon na write b between now . marketing : okay . still the end conclusion . that 's all , i think . project manager : but , i in here nothing uh user interface : um , the decision to make um the buttons on the top , and the menu on the project manager : mm-hmm . yes . user interface : on the bottom . and clearly yeah , touch-screen you 've mentioned . project manager : yeah , touch-screen i 've mentioned . marketing : yeah , but but the the decisions are put in the uh conclusion , i think . user interface : okay . marketing : why we decided to use a flat uh lcd . user interface : okay , this n yeah . project manager : yeah , okay , well i gon na redesign uh something now . no . marketing : yeah . um user interface : party party . project manager : because i think it will oh , five minutes from to finish meeting . user interface : oh , before you change anything maybe you um save it first . marketing : save it . user interface : you ca n't you can select file and export and then those j_ peg files . marketing : yeah , but then you had the same thing . user interface : well , eight . and we have uh , another blank one . marketing : example of children remote . user interface : did we change anything ? marketing : oh wait . wait . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : it 's a new uh commercial logo . marketing : hmm . that 's a pity . user interface : do n't save it , aye ? project manager : oh , that 's cool , tim . finish meeting now . well , i 'm i 'm user interface : why are only the first five smartboard files project manager : i 'm going to finish my end report . user interface : saved ? industrial designer : okay , um hereby is the meeting is finished . marketing : you declare . industrial designer : </s>
<s> summarize the evaluation of the marketing expert on the prototype using the past user requirements and trends analysis . </s> project manager : the marketing expert . industrial designer : uh-oh . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : marketing : okay . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : during the user interface : industrial designer : marketing : oh . during the design uh design life-cycle we uh project manager : sorry . user interface : marketing : we made lot of requirements and trend analysis and stuff . um , now is the time to uh evaluate our prototype concept to uh to the past requirements . so we are going to evaluate the design according to the past user requirements and trends analysis . um , we 're going to do that with a seven point scale . opening a word document now . okay . one oh , okay , uh i have to expla explain something . we have to uh be consensive about about things . so , it has to be a group uh group decision . project manager : okay , marketing : okay ? project manager : so we gon we gon na evaluate the marketing : uh we 're going to vote . we project manager : yeah , the the thing we saw . marketing : yeah ? the prototype . project manager : okay , just saw . marketing : yeah . okay , one . the remote control is designed for people with age below forty . project manager : yeah . seven ? marketing : user interface : marketing : seven is false . project manager : uh , true . sorry . marketing : yeah , b one or project manager : yeah , one i think . marketing : most true ? industrial designer : yeah , it 's not just uh designed for people under the age of forty . it 's also designed for people above forty . marketing : yeah , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so industrial designer : so marketing : so a o one is appropriate ? user interface : no no , a little more in the middle . marketing : or , more like a four . user interface : no , uh three or yeah . industrial designer : i have i 've marketing : three . industrial designer : yeah , two or three , because it 's not just uh the qu question is aimed at is it designed for people with age below forty . project manager : okay . industrial designer : but it 's also designed for people of age above forty . so , marketing : ah , exactly . exactly . industrial designer : i 'll say it 's about three . user interface : yeah , project manager : okay . user interface : it will be primary appealing to to m minus forty , but also appealing to marketing : three . project manager : marketing : yeah . but also for yeah , okay . uh , second . the remote control is beautiful . user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : it 's industrial designer : marketing : yeah , acco according to us , it 's one ? or project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , industrial designer : yeah , i i think user interface : it 's the marketing uh angle on television . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , user interface : we have a wonderful marketing : p s of c of course you have to be uh very positive and uh enthusiastic about your own product . user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : well , it 's also fancy then . marketing : three . uh , the remote control looks fancy . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . of course . we have a perfect remote . marketing : good . four . the remote control has big , clear channel switching buttons . user interface : yes . yeah yeah , oh they have to agree but industrial designer : yeah . leads to user face , yeah . user interface : i 'm the user interface uh expert . marketing : daniel . uh , teletext buttons and volume buttons ? user interface : um , uh no . project manager : no teletext buttons . teletext is in the menu . user interface : you you 've different menu . industrial designer : yeah , false . marketing : false ? user interface : and volume is impo marketing : and volume ? project manager : volume is true . user interface : yeah . marketing : true . industrial designer : uh , hmm . marketing : big and clear ? project manager : industrial designer : yeah , the they are big and clear . . user interface : yeah yeah , big and clear . project manager : yeah , big and clear . user interface : but you could make a teletext button uh six . otherwise , the people who read this uh are gon na think we have no teletext button . marketing : hey . hide . project manager : industrial designer : yeah , but but the teletext button . yeah , you can ch that 's in a menu . marketing : it 's it 's not industrial designer : so , it 's w yeah , it it it marketing : yeah , it industrial designer : it is n't entirely unclear , but so , i would n't give it a seven . i would give it a more a five or a six . user interface : yeah . marketing : five ? industrial designer : uh , i don i do n't know . marketing : okay . industrial designer : what do you think , uh mister project manager ? marketing : yeah , it 's it 's yeah . project manager : oh , okay . well , i agree . i was thinking very black and white . marketing : user interface : black and red . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : project manager : thank you j_ . industrial designer : user interface : okay , do n't forget to save it . uh project manager : industrial designer : marketing : red . okay . volume . the remote control is easy to be found . user interface : uh well , when we put in fancy colours , yeah project manager : fruity . user interface : and marketing : industrial designer : yeah , it has these all these fruity colours and it has a strange shape . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so , if you so if you have trouble finding it user interface : but , um it it 's not making any sound uh , marketing : user interface : have we deciding ? marketing : oh , okay , user interface : so marketing : but if you put uh your normal uh remote control under your bed , or you throw this remote control under your bed , is it better findable ? user interface : it 'll make a difference . we have the better re i do n't know . yeah , i think so . my remote control 's black . marketing : a li little bit maybe ? user interface : a little bit , but yeah . project manager : yeah . well , we p we can do it glow in the dark . marketing : four ? user interface : uh project manager : so , if it 's in the dark place , you still see it glowing . user interface : k yeah . marketing : i user interface : fo fo yeah fo five is . marketing : ah , i i i think five . it 's it 's it does n't really make a lot of industrial designer : well , then uh then i 'll go for four . marketing : four ? industrial designer : because uh four is between three and uh uh also between between true and false . user interface : yeah , okay , you 're right . marketing : yes , but five is between four and six . project manager : i think industrial designer : so i 'll i 'll go for four . project manager : ah , you must see it as uh , w uh according to uh the the other uh remote controls , there may uh uh be there in your uh tv room , this one will stand out , i think . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that that 's a better question actually . marketing : yeah , project manager : exa i think that that 's what it 's about . user interface : yeah . marketing : it it 's user interface : if your uh fifteen remotes in a drawer , uh you find it , yeah ? project manager : if it if this lying on your couch , you 're you 're you think what 's that for kinda orange uh thing . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : so marketing : but but the survey under users was that they uh really lost it . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's stupid . industrial designer : marketing : like , no not uh not seeing it , but lost it in the house or something . project manager : okay . user interface : uh , but when you lost it you 're just not marketing : but , okay . industrial designer : well , if i if you see a strange shape lying somewhere , uh then you 'd uh recognise it as , whoa , that is strange . project manager : that 's our remote control . user interface : yeah , mostly when you lose your remote control , it it 's under your marketing : yeah , okay . yeah , i i agree , i agree . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , what is that . uh , user interface : most of times when you lose it you 're sitting on it . uh industrial designer : so it 's marketing : okay . eight , the remote control has fresh , fruity colours . project manager : true . user interface : um i would call uh choose two , industrial designer : user interface : 'cause we decided not to make two f uh fresh colours , as it would not . marketing : yeah , yeah , not too flashy . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : the remote control is made of soft material . project manager : industrial designer : yeah , rubber , is kind of soft . project manager : yeah , but not too soft we have decided . user interface : kinda soft , but but not this . yeah . marketing : three ? project manager : three , yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah yeah , easy to use , project manager : easy to use . one . user interface : very afford . marketing : easy to use ? project manager : yeah , can it be zero ? industrial designer : well , i don yeah , it is kind of marketing : top easy to use ? industrial designer : it marketing : it 's it 's not the most easy to use user interface : no , you can do two , because um industrial designer : no . uh marketing : it can be easier . user interface : it can be easier . but then you 're l industrial designer : it could yeah . marketing : jus just with ten buttons , that 's the easiest . user interface : yeah , but then you 'll lose project manager : yeah . user interface : function f yeah , functionality and our fancy uh look , so . industrial designer : functional ability . marketing : yeah , but the most uh easy to use is just with one button user interface : but it is r it is rather easy to use , because you have the primary buttons always visible . project manager : marketing : on t yeah , okay , but easy n not not the most easy to use , i think . industrial designer : . no , it 's it i i 'll go for two . my vote 's on two . project manager : okay , two . yeah , two . user interface : yeah , m mine too . marketing : we also have to compare it to the uh to the remote controls on the market nowadays . so user interface : yeah , but waits just a minutes . inspiration . project manager : what 's the time ? we also have uh to do the evaluation , uh the production costs and uh stuff . user interface : these are the m regular remotes . marketing : yeah yeah , i 'm uh hurrying . project manager : marketing : okay , eleven . the remote control is innovative . project manager : yeah . user interface : yes , true , one . project manager : you 're agree , tim ? marketing : a very of course . project manager : you have n't seen a more innovative uh thing in uh paris ? marketing : the remote control has m remova removable from multilux . industrial designer : user interface : yes , one . very multifunctional . project manager : marketing : the remote control , i it has speech recognition . project manager : false . marketing : false . industrial designer : it user interface : this is used with speech recognition , this . marketing : the remote control has built-in games ? project manager : user interface : yes . but uh , maybe make it two , because the games are in a sub-menu and not uh it 's not an entire game . project manager : yeah , but they are built in , so it 's one . industrial designer : yeah , they are built in . user interface : yeah , okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : not down . marketing : and the last , paren parental advisory function . industrial designer : you really like the parental advisory . project manager : freak . marketing : yes , i do . user interface : th did you make this or the marketing : save as . industrial designer : yeah , he made it . user interface : yeah , it changes it maybe . marketing : okay , i will uh user interface : oh yay . marketing : do the the math . user interface : oh dear . marketing : now it 's your turn . project manager : okay , thank you . marketing : project manager : we 'll see . mm . okay , we have now to c uh to calculate the production cost . if it 's under uh twelve and half euro , then it 's uh ok uh okay . but i is it if it is b huh ? no , this is n't right . okay so , . redesign . user interface : if they 're under twelve fifty . project manager : oh yeah , if they under yeah . no . oh yeah . yeah , it 's user interface : yeah ? cau 'cause so it 's okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the shape of the remote control . </s> user interface : curvy . marketing : hey , those ar arcs , why are there for ? project manager : sorry ? marketing : the blue blue uh project manager : fill in just a user interface : explanation . marketing : okay . project manager : explanation . user interface : twelve fifty . project manager : i can delete it for you if you want . user interface : well industrial designer : marketing : no , no no . project manager : so , if we do this , uh we 're on uh twelve and a half euro . and we 're done . user interface : yeah , but does it fit with our design ? project manager : uh well , the only uh thing that do n't user interface : do we have to u adapt it ? it 's single-curves . project manager : yeah , single-curved , but there 's a curve in it . so marketing : yeah . user interface : w could we just make the bubbles uh cut off the back , and then we 're uh has industrial designer : yeah , we just make it flat . user interface : okay . industrial designer : but , you do l marketing : but , wha 'kay , look , what is the uh if you make it double-curved , it costs one euro more . user interface : more . yeah . you make it optional . marketing : but no , but does it have a lot of extra uh industrial designer : function . user interface : functional . marketing : fun function more like industrial designer : worth , does it have added worth ? user interface : uh , there 's an a a athe aesthetic value , but not functionality . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : no , um project manager : yeah , it 's really a static value . yeah . marketing : yeah , uh aesthetic . i mean , uh you make like eleven and a half euros profit instead of twelve and a half . but i do n't know if twelve and a half is uh a fixed uh fixed price . project manager : yeah , it is . oh . industrial designer : yeah , well let 's assume it is . marketing : no , we ca n't go above that . </s>
<s> what did the user interface designer and the project manager discuss about the colour of the product ? </s> industrial designer : yeah , f uh , as colours , do you do you have the picture in uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : oh yeah . now , well this is the idea about uh the bumps . uh , you can see there 's a v a very uh youthful uh dynamic uh exterior . it uh you just want to hold it you uh you are young and uh dynamic like us . marketing : 's l it 's like an uh easter egg . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , it 's like an e but this is for children . we we want a more adult version . but , this is like a remote control for children . marketing : project manager : it 's called a weemote industrial designer : . a weemote . marketing : weemote . project manager : weemote . industrial designer : yeah . hey , that 's actually a brilliant uh marketing stand . user interface : project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh , but marketing : wait what i w got in mind . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : so this actually basic the idea . we we just want to build a more uh adult vers adult version of of this . project manager : yeah , i can imagine that . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and and for colours , we we figured starting with basic colours like uh white or metallic grey . those are the technological colours actually , user interface : yeah . it would be best to to appeal to a broad public and make the covers exchangeable , industrial designer : so it d user interface : so the young people will buy an orange and a red and blue and a purple , industrial designer : or blue or whatever . user interface : but when the o older people uh go in the shop and they see uh an orange um remote control , it would be less appealing than a white one . and young people , we think , are a little bit more flexible , they think , ah i 'll buy for a couple of euros some noi nice hip uh marketing : hmm . maybe it 's an idea to sell it without a cover , so that you can pick a cover in the in the shop . user interface : well , um i think a cover is necessary , 'cause als otherwise you 'll just have the lcd screen . marketing : yeah , okay . yeah , okay . user interface : so , there must be some cheap standard cover , um maybe white or something , marketing : hmm . mm . user interface : that 's could comes with it and you can buy , so we can make extra money . project manager : yeah , but uh you d you must n't forget that uh our target aim is younger people . marketing : oui okay . </s>
<s> how did they discuss the kinetic function of the remote control ? </s> project manager : the kinetic thing , can we just skip it , user interface : just cut off the kine yeah . project manager : because uh you have to shake it , but that 's not really innovative . user interface : or industrial designer : yeah . okay , sure . user interface : yeah . yeah , we just put a good battery it it . marketing : yeah . user interface : mobile phones nowadays . project manager : yeah . marketing : daniel . daniel , project manager : yo . sorry , marketing : what do you think about here . project manager : yeah , yes . marketing : what do you think about uh putting a battery in it , but also selling like uh the covers , a docking station project manager : yeah . marketing : just apart from the from the thing , so that you can uh put uh project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : rechargeable batteries in it and just project manager : okay . user interface : but you can use rechargeable batteries anyway , just you s you have to recharge them manual . project manager : yeah , and not really . marketing : yeah , yeah , okay . project manager : but we if you forget about the kinetic , marketing : just an idea . user interface : yeah , that 's a cost reduc industrial designer : yeah , sure . marketing : yeah . project manager : well if we do that , we shall . user interface : ah . industrial designer : okay , project manager : so um industrial designer : well you you can go from double-curved to single-curved . marketing : yeah , of course . industrial designer : and that would solve the budget problem . project manager : uh , b but i but the single-curved is just oh user interface : yeah , so we have to bake the ba back flat , and then industrial designer : yeah . user interface : no , it 's it 's just one curve and not a back uh curved i think . or industrial designer : it 's just yeah well , the single-curve that project manager : oh , okay , okay . industrial designer : yeah . exactly , yeah . project manager : so that 's wh tha that 's one option . user interface : or are these two curves ? uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : and then w yeah , and then we could have it , but uh it 's its ' well it 's it 's r it is the main point of the the the the look . marketing : yeah , user interface : yeah , but what else uh do we have to cut out ? no advanced chip , uh that 's a little bit of problem . industrial designer : we going to cut project manager : no , tho uh that that can be done . marketing : yeah . project manager : so uh , user interface : although , can we make it with a regular chip ? project manager : okay , a little less uh conversation . user interface : curvy . marketing : hey , those ar arcs , why are there for ? project manager : sorry ? marketing : the blue blue uh project manager : fill in just a user interface : explanation . marketing : okay . project manager : explanation . user interface : twelve fifty . project manager : i can delete it for you if you want . user interface : well industrial designer : marketing : no , no no . project manager : so , if we do this , uh we 're on uh twelve and a half euro . and we 're done . user interface : yeah , but does it fit with our design ? project manager : uh well , the only uh thing that do n't user interface : do we have to u adapt it ? it 's single-curves . project manager : yeah , single-curved , but there 's a curve in it . so marketing : yeah . user interface : w could we just make the bubbles uh cut off the back , and then we 're uh has industrial designer : yeah , we just make it flat . user interface : okay . industrial designer : but , you do l marketing : but , wha 'kay , look , what is the uh if you make it double-curved , it costs one euro more . user interface : more . yeah . you make it optional . marketing : but no , but does it have a lot of extra uh industrial designer : function . user interface : functional . marketing : fun function more like industrial designer : worth , does it have added worth ? user interface : uh , there 's an a a athe aesthetic value , but not functionality . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : no , um project manager : yeah , it 's really a static value . yeah . marketing : yeah , uh aesthetic . i mean , uh you make like eleven and a half euros profit instead of twelve and a half . but i do n't know if twelve and a half is uh a fixed uh fixed price . project manager : yeah , it is . oh . industrial designer : yeah , well let 's assume it is . marketing : no , we ca n't go above that . industrial designer : we we should assume it i that it is . marketing : yeah ? project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but i i figured that the kinetic would be a marketing promotion . marketing : yeah , okay . then it 's okay . industrial designer : r if you uh promote a kinetic um i kinetic remote control , i mean , that would b sell better than an a normal remote control . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : do you think ? well , now you can shake your remote control . marketing : yeah , i think so . industrial designer : no , well , y i mean uh , y you can go into your neighbour and tell him , ha , my k uh remote control is kinetic . project manager : kinetic . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you have standard old battery control uh remote con marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : what a what about all the m the environment freaks ? user interface : yeah , but it does n't fit in our co cost profile . so marketing : not freaks , industrial designer : marketing : the envi no . industrial designer : true . marketing : i i think it 's it 's it look like this one . user interface : you ma can make an an especialised extra gold version . project manager : yeah ? who because if you want to go to kinetic , you 're uh you 're on thirteen and a half and you must go to flat , </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay right um well this is the kick-off meeting for our our project . um and um this is just what we 're gon na be doing over the next twenty five minutes . um so first of all , just to kind of make sure that we all know each other , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i 'm laura and i 'm the project manager . do you want to introduce yourself again ? marketing : great . industrial designer : hi , i 'm david and i 'm supposed to be an industrial designer . project manager : okay . marketing : and i 'm andrew and i 'm uh our marketing user interface : um i 'm craig and i 'm user interface . marketing : expert . project manager : great . okay . um so we 're designing a new remote control and um oh i have to record who 's here actually . so that 's david , andrew and craig , is n't it ? and you all arrived on time . um yeah so des uh design a new remote control . um , as you can see it 's supposed to be original , trendy and user friendly . um so that 's kind of our our brief , as it were . um and so there are three different stages to the design . um i 'm not really sure what what you guys have already received um in your emails . what did you get ? industrial designer : um , i just got the project announcement about what the project is . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : designing a remote control . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : that 's about it , did n't get anything else . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , that 's that 's it . project manager : is that what everybody got ? industrial designer : did you get the same thing ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : um . so we 're gon na have like individual work and then a meeting about it . and repeat that process three times . um and at this point we get try out the whiteboard over there . um . so uh you get to draw your favourite animal and sum up your favourite characteristics of it . so who would like to go first ? marketing : i will go . that 's fine . project manager : very good . marketing : alright . so this one here , right ? project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . very nice . alright . my favourite animal is like a beagle . project manager : marketing : um charac favourite characteristics of it ? is that right ? project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : uh , right , well basically um high priority for any animal for me is that they be willing to take a lot of physical affection from their family . and , yeah that they have lots of personality and uh be fit and in robust good health . industrial designer : marketing : so this is blue . blue beagle . my family 's beagle . project manager : right . marketing : project manager : lovely . user interface : well , my favourite animal would be a monkey . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : then they 're small cute and furry , and uh when planet of the apes becomes real , i 'm gon na be up there with them . marketing : industrial designer : cool . project manager : right . user interface : industrial designer : there 's too much gear . project manager : you can take as long over this as you like , because we have n't got an awful lot to discuss . industrial designer : project manager : ok oh we do we do user interface : project manager : do n't feel like you 're in a rush , anyway . industrial designer : okay . marketing : i coulda told you a whole lot more about beagles . project manager : ach why not marketing : boy , let me tell you . project manager : we might have to get you up again then . user interface : project manager : i do n't know what mine is . i 'm gon na have to think on the spot now . marketing : impressionist . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : ca n't draw . user interface : project manager : is that a whale ? industrial designer : yeah . um , well anyway , i do n't know , it 's just the first animal i can think off the top of my head . um . yes . big reason is 'cause i 'm allergic to most animals . allergic to animal fur , so um fish was a natural choice . um , yeah , and i kind of like whales . they come in and go eat everything in sight . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : and they 're quite harmless and mild and interesting . marketing : alright . mm . project manager : okay . god , i still do n't know what i 'm gon na write about . um . marketing : superb sketch , by the way . industrial designer : tail 's a bit big , i think . project manager : i was gon na choose a dog as well . marketing : project manager : but i 'll just draw a different kind of dog . m my favourite animal is my own dog at home . um that does n't really look like him , actually . he looks more like a pig , actually . ah well . marketing : i see a dog in there . project manager : do you ? user interface : project manager : oh that 's very good of you . marketing : yep . now i see a rooster . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : marketing : what kind is it ? project manager : um he 's a mixture of uh various things . um and what do i like about him , um that 's just to suggest that his tail wags . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : um he 's very friendly and cheery and always pleased to see you , and very kind of affectionate and um uh and he 's quite quite wee as well so you know he can does n't take up too much space . marketing : project manager : um and uh and he does a funny thing where he chases his tail as well , industrial designer : project manager : which is quite amusing , so marketing : is he aware that th it 's his own cha tail he 's chasing ? project manager : it is . i think it is . he only does it after he 's had his dinner marketing : project manager : and um he 'll just all of a sudden just get up and start chasing his tail 'round the living room . industrial designer : it 's an after dinner dog then . project manager : yeah , so uh marketing : probably when he was little he got lots of attention for doing it and has forever been conditioned . project manager : yeah , maybe . maybe . right , um where did you find this ? marketing : project manager : just down here ? yeah . industrial designer : project manager : okay . um what are we doing next ? uh um . okay , uh we now need to discuss the project finance . um so according to the brief um we 're gon na be selling this remote control for twenty five euro , um and we 're aiming to make fifty million euro . um so we 're gon na be selling this on an international scale . and uh we do n't want it to cost any more than uh twelve fifty euros , so fifty percent of the selling price . marketing : 'kay . um , can we just go over that again ? project manager : sure . marketing : uh , so bas at twel alright , yeah . okay . so cost like production cost is twelve fifty , project manager : all together . marketing : but selling price is is that wholesale or retail ? like on the shelf . project manager : um i dunno . i imagine that 's a good question . marketing : our sale our sale anyway . project manager : i imagine it probably is our sale actually marketing : yeah , okay okay . project manager : because it 's probably up to the the um the retailer to uh sell it for whatever price they want . um . marketing : okay . mm-hmm . project manager : but i i do n't know , marketing : alright . project manager : i mean do you think the fact that it 's going to be sold internationally will have a bearing on how we design it at all ? marketing : yes . project manager : think it will ? um . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : hmm . marketing : well right away i 'm wondering if there 's um th th uh , like with d_v_d_ players , if there are zones . project manager : oh yeah , regions and stuff , yeah . marketing : um f frequencies or something project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : um as well as uh characters , um different uh keypad styles and s symbols . project manager : yeah . well for a remote control , do you think that will be i suppose it 's depends on how complicated our remote control is . marketing : i do n't know . yeah . industrial designer : it does make sense from maybe the design point of view 'cause you have more complicated characters like european languages , then you need more buttons . project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so , possibly . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : and then a and then al the other thing international is on top of the price . i 'm thinking the price might might appeal to a certain market in one region , whereas in another it 'll be different , so project manager : what , just like in terms of like the wealth of the country ? marketing : just a chara just a characteristic of the project manager : like how much money people have to spend on things like ? marketing : just or just like , basic product podi positioning , the twenty five euro remote control might be a big hit in london , might not be such a big hit in greece , who knows , project manager : aye , i see what you mean , yeah . marketing : something like that , yeah . project manager : marketing . good marketing thoughts . marketing : yep . project manager : oh gosh , i should be writing all this down . um . marketing : right away i 'm making some kind of assumptions about what what information we 're given here , thinking , 'kay trendy probably means something other than just basic , project manager : yeah . marketing : something other than just standard . um so i 'm wondering right away , is selling twenty five euros , is that sort of the thi is this gon na to be like the premium product kinda thing or project manager : yeah , yeah . like how much does , you know , a remote control cost . marketing : uh-huh . project manager : well twenty five euro , i mean that 's um that 's about like eighteen pounds or something , is n't it ? or no , is it as much as that ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : sixteen seventeen eighteen pounds . marketing : yep . yeah , i 'd say so , yeah . project manager : um , i dunno , i 've never bought a remote control , so i do n't know how how good a remote control that would get you . um . marketing : no . yeah , yeah . project manager : but yeah , i suppose it has to look kind of cool and gimmicky . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um right , okay . let me just scoot on ahead here . okay . um well d does anybody have anything to add to uh to the finance issue at all ? thin marketing : do we have any other background information on like how that compares to other project manager : no , actually . that would be useful , though , marketing : other project manager : would n't it , if you knew like what your money would get you now . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , interesting thing about discussing um production of a remote control for me is that l as you point out , i just do n't think of remote controls as somethin something people consciously assess in their purchasing habits . project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : it 's just like getting shoelaces with shoes or something . project manager : oh . five minutes to end of meeting . marketing : it just comes along . project manager : oh , okay . we 're a bit behind . marketing : do you know what i mean ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like so sort of like how do you i i mean one one way of looking at it would be , well the people producing television sets , maybe they have to buy remote controls . or another way is maybe people who have tv sets are really fed up with their remote control and they really want a better one or something . user interface : i know um my parents went out and bought um remote controls because um they got fed up of having four or five different remote controls for each things the house . marketing : but right . right . user interface : so um for them it was just how many devices control . marketing : okay so right , so in function one of the priorities might be to combine as many uses project manager : yeah . right , so do you think that should be like a main design aim of our remote control d you know , marketing : i think so . project manager : do your your satellite and your regular telly and your v_c_r_ and everything ? marketing : yeah , yeah . yeah . well like um , maybe what we could use is a sort of like a example of a successful other piece technology is palm palm pilots . they 're gone from being just like little sort of scribble boards to cameras , m_p_ three players , telephones , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : everything , agenda . so , like , i wonder if we might add something new to the to the remote control market , project manager : yeah . marketing : such as the lighting in your house , or um project manager : or even like , you know , notes about um what you wan na watch . like you might put in there oh i want to watch such and such and look a marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : oh that 's a good idea . so extra functionalities . marketing : an yeah . like , p personally for me , at home i 've i 've combined the um the audio video of my television set and my d_v_d_ player and my c_d_ player . so they w all work actually function together but i have different remote controls for each of them . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's sort of ironic that that then they 're in there um you know , the sound and everything it 's just one system . but each one 's got its own little part . project manager : um okay , uh i 'd wel we 're gon na have to wrap up pretty quickly in the next couple of minutes . um i 'll just check we 've nothing else . okay . um so anything else anybody wants to add about what they do n't like about remote controls they 've used , what they would really like to be part of this new one at all ? industrial designer : and you keep losing them . project manager : you keep losing them . okay . industrial designer : finding them is really a pain , you know . marketing : mm . mm . industrial designer : i mean it 's usually quite small , or when you want it right , it slipped behind the couch marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : or it 's kicked under the table . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : w you get those ones where you can , if you like , whistle or make a really high pitched noise they beep . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : you know . marketing : that 's just really good id yep . project manager : there i mean is that something we 'd want to include , do you think ? marketing : uh , project manager : dunno . marketing : sure . project manager : okay maybe . marketing : i remember when the first remote control my my family had was on a cable . actually had a cable between it and the tv project manager : marketing : and big like buttons that sort of like , like on a blender or something . project manager : my goodness . marketing : and um , you know , when i think about what they are now , it 's better , but actually it 's still kind of , i dunno , like a massive junky thing on the table . project manager : still feels quite primitive . marketing : maybe we could think about how , could be more , you know , streamlined . s project manager : maybe like a touch screen or something ? marketing : something like that , yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : or whatever would be technologically reasonable . project manager : uh-huh , okay . well i guess that 's up to our industrial designer . marketing : 'cause it could b it could it could be that f it could be that functionally that does n't make it any better , but that just the appeal of of not having project manager : it looks better . marketing : you know , these days there 's a r pe things in people 's homes are becoming more and more like chic , you know . project manager : yeah . marketing : um , nicer materials project manager : okay . marketing : and might be project manager : okay . marketing : be worth exploring anyway . project manager : right , well um so just to wrap up the next meeting 's gon na be in thirty minutes . so that 's about um about ten to twelve by my watch . um so inbetween now and then , um as the industrial designer , you 're gon na be working on you know the actual working design of it so y you know what you 're doing there . um for user interface , technical functions , i guess that 's you know like what we 've been talking about , what it 'll actually do . um and uh marketing executive , you 'll be just thinking about what it actually what , you know , what requirements it has to has to fulfil and you 'll all get instructions emailed to you , i guess . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah , so it 's th the functional design stage is next , i guess . and uh and that 's the end of the meeting . so i got that little message a lot sooner than i thought i would , so marketing : um . before we wrap up , just to make sure we 're all on the same page here , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um , do we we were given sort of an example of a coffee machine or something , project manager : uh-huh , yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : right ? well , um are we at ma right now on the assumption that our television remote control may have features which go beyond the television ? or are we keeping sort of like a a design commitment to television features ? project manager : th okay , well just very quickly marketing : i i do n't know . project manager : 'cause this we 're supposed to finish now . um i guess that 's up to us , marketing : yep . yeah , sure . project manager : i mean you probably want some kind of unique selling point of it , so um , you know marketing : okay . industrial designer : i think one factor would be production cost . marketing : okay , yeah . industrial designer : because there 's a cap there , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so um depends on how much you can cram into that price . um . marketing : okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . industrial designer : i think that that 's the main factor . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : okay . project manager : right , okay , we 'll that 's that 's the end of the meeting , then . um marketing : alright . project manager : so , uh marketing : project manager : thank you all for coming . industrial designer : cool . </s>
<s> summarize the groupmates ' self-introduction and the project introduction . </s> project manager : okay right um well this is the kick-off meeting for our our project . um and um this is just what we 're gon na be doing over the next twenty five minutes . um so first of all , just to kind of make sure that we all know each other , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i 'm laura and i 'm the project manager . do you want to introduce yourself again ? marketing : great . industrial designer : hi , i 'm david and i 'm supposed to be an industrial designer . project manager : okay . marketing : and i 'm andrew and i 'm uh our marketing user interface : um i 'm craig and i 'm user interface . marketing : expert . project manager : great . okay . um so we 're designing a new remote control and um oh i have to record who 's here actually . so that 's david , andrew and craig , is n't it ? and you all arrived on time . um yeah so des uh design a new remote control . um , as you can see it 's supposed to be original , trendy and user friendly . um so that 's kind of our our brief , as it were . um and so there are three different stages to the design . um i 'm not really sure what what you guys have already received um in your emails . what did you get ? industrial designer : um , i just got the project announcement about what the project is . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : designing a remote control . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : that 's about it , did n't get anything else . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , that 's that 's it . project manager : is that what everybody got ? industrial designer : did you get the same thing ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the job role for each groupmate . </s> project manager : okay right um well this is the kick-off meeting for our our project . um and um this is just what we 're gon na be doing over the next twenty five minutes . um so first of all , just to kind of make sure that we all know each other , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i 'm laura and i 'm the project manager . do you want to introduce yourself again ? marketing : great . industrial designer : hi , i 'm david and i 'm supposed to be an industrial designer . project manager : okay . marketing : and i 'm andrew and i 'm uh our marketing user interface : um i 'm craig and i 'm user interface . marketing : expert . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the email they received on the project announcement ? </s> project manager : great . okay . um so we 're designing a new remote control and um oh i have to record who 's here actually . so that 's david , andrew and craig , is n't it ? and you all arrived on time . um yeah so des uh design a new remote control . um , as you can see it 's supposed to be original , trendy and user friendly . um so that 's kind of our our brief , as it were . um and so there are three different stages to the design . um i 'm not really sure what what you guys have already received um in your emails . what did you get ? industrial designer : um , i just got the project announcement about what the project is . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : designing a remote control . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : that 's about it , did n't get anything else . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , that 's that 's it . project manager : is that what everybody got ? industrial designer : did you get the same thing ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the favourite animal characteristics and the workflow . </s> project manager : um . so we 're gon na have like individual work and then a meeting about it . and repeat that process three times . um and at this point we get try out the whiteboard over there . um . so uh you get to draw your favourite animal and sum up your favourite characteristics of it . so who would like to go first ? marketing : i will go . that 's fine . project manager : very good . marketing : alright . so this one here , right ? project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . very nice . alright . my favourite animal is like a beagle . project manager : marketing : um charac favourite characteristics of it ? is that right ? project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : uh , right , well basically um high priority for any animal for me is that they be willing to take a lot of physical affection from their family . and , yeah that they have lots of personality and uh be fit and in robust good health . industrial designer : marketing : so this is blue . blue beagle . my family 's beagle . project manager : right . marketing : project manager : lovely . user interface : well , my favourite animal would be a monkey . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : then they 're small cute and furry , and uh when planet of the apes becomes real , i 'm gon na be up there with them . marketing : industrial designer : cool . project manager : right . user interface : industrial designer : there 's too much gear . project manager : you can take as long over this as you like , because we have n't got an awful lot to discuss . industrial designer : project manager : ok oh we do we do user interface : project manager : do n't feel like you 're in a rush , anyway . industrial designer : okay . marketing : i coulda told you a whole lot more about beagles . project manager : ach why not marketing : boy , let me tell you . project manager : we might have to get you up again then . user interface : project manager : i do n't know what mine is . i 'm gon na have to think on the spot now . marketing : impressionist . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : ca n't draw . user interface : project manager : is that a whale ? industrial designer : yeah . um , well anyway , i do n't know , it 's just the first animal i can think off the top of my head . um . yes . big reason is 'cause i 'm allergic to most animals . allergic to animal fur , so um fish was a natural choice . um , yeah , and i kind of like whales . they come in and go eat everything in sight . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : and they 're quite harmless and mild and interesting . marketing : alright . mm . project manager : okay . god , i still do n't know what i 'm gon na write about . um . marketing : superb sketch , by the way . industrial designer : tail 's a bit big , i think . project manager : i was gon na choose a dog as well . marketing : project manager : but i 'll just draw a different kind of dog . m my favourite animal is my own dog at home . um that does n't really look like him , actually . he looks more like a pig , actually . ah well . marketing : i see a dog in there . project manager : do you ? user interface : project manager : oh that 's very good of you . marketing : yep . now i see a rooster . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : marketing : what kind is it ? project manager : um he 's a mixture of uh various things . um and what do i like about him , um that 's just to suggest that his tail wags . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : um he 's very friendly and cheery and always pleased to see you , and very kind of affectionate and um uh and he 's quite quite wee as well so you know he can does n't take up too much space . marketing : project manager : um and uh and he does a funny thing where he chases his tail as well , industrial designer : project manager : which is quite amusing , so marketing : is he aware that th it 's his own cha tail he 's chasing ? project manager : it is . i think it is . he only does it after he 's had his dinner marketing : project manager : and um he 'll just all of a sudden just get up and start chasing his tail 'round the living room . industrial designer : it 's an after dinner dog then . project manager : yeah , so uh marketing : probably when he was little he got lots of attention for doing it and has forever been conditioned . project manager : yeah , maybe . maybe . right , um where did you find this ? marketing : project manager : just down here ? yeah . industrial designer : project manager : okay . um what are we doing next ? uh um . okay , uh we now need to discuss the project finance . um so according to the brief um we 're gon na be selling this remote control for twenty five euro , um and we 're aiming to make fifty million euro . um so we 're gon na be selling this on an international scale . and uh we do n't want it to cost any more than uh twelve fifty euros , so fifty percent of the selling price . marketing : 'kay . um , can we just go over that again ? project manager : sure . marketing : uh , so bas at twel alright , yeah . okay . so cost like production cost is twelve fifty , project manager : all together . marketing : but selling price is is that wholesale or retail ? like on the shelf . project manager : um i dunno . i imagine that 's a good question . marketing : our sale our sale anyway . project manager : i imagine it probably is our sale actually marketing : yeah , okay okay . project manager : because it 's probably up to the the um the retailer to uh sell it for whatever price they want . um . marketing : okay . mm-hmm . project manager : but i i do n't know , marketing : alright . project manager : i mean do you think the fact that it 's going to be sold internationally will have a bearing on how we design it at all ? marketing : yes . project manager : think it will ? um . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : hmm . marketing : well right away i 'm wondering if there 's um th th uh , like with d_v_d_ players , if there are zones . project manager : oh yeah , regions and stuff , yeah . marketing : um f frequencies or something project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : um as well as uh characters , um different uh keypad styles and s symbols . project manager : yeah . well for a remote control , do you think that will be i suppose it 's depends on how complicated our remote control is . marketing : i do n't know . yeah . industrial designer : it does make sense from maybe the design point of view 'cause you have more complicated characters like european languages , then you need more buttons . project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so , possibly . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : and then a and then al the other thing international is on top of the price . i 'm thinking the price might might appeal to a certain market in one region , whereas in another it 'll be different , so project manager : what , just like in terms of like the wealth of the country ? marketing : just a chara just a characteristic of the project manager : like how much money people have to spend on things like ? marketing : just or just like , basic product podi positioning , the twenty five euro remote control might be a big hit in london , might not be such a big hit in greece , who knows , project manager : aye , i see what you mean , yeah . marketing : something like that , yeah . project manager : marketing . good marketing thoughts . marketing : yep . project manager : oh gosh , i should be writing all this down . um . marketing : right away i 'm making some kind of assumptions about what what information we 're given here , thinking , 'kay trendy probably means something other than just basic , project manager : yeah . marketing : something other than just standard . um so i 'm wondering right away , is selling twenty five euros , is that sort of the thi is this gon na to be like the premium product kinda thing or project manager : yeah , yeah . like how much does , you know , a remote control cost . marketing : uh-huh . project manager : well twenty five euro , i mean that 's um that 's about like eighteen pounds or something , is n't it ? or no , is it as much as that ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : sixteen seventeen eighteen pounds . marketing : yep . yeah , i 'd say so , yeah . project manager : um , i dunno , i 've never bought a remote control , so i do n't know how how good a remote control that would get you . um . marketing : no . yeah , yeah . project manager : but yeah , i suppose it has to look kind of cool and gimmicky . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um right , okay . let me just scoot on ahead here . okay . um well d does anybody have anything to add to uh to the finance issue at all ? thin marketing : do we have any other background information on like how that compares to other project manager : no , actually . that would be useful , though , marketing : other project manager : would n't it , if you knew like what your money would get you now . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , interesting thing about discussing um production of a remote control for me is that l as you point out , i just do n't think of remote controls as somethin something people consciously assess in their purchasing habits . project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : it 's just like getting shoelaces with shoes or something . project manager : oh . five minutes to end of meeting . marketing : it just comes along . project manager : oh , okay . we 're a bit behind . marketing : do you know what i mean ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like so sort of like how do you i i mean one one way of looking at it would be , well the people producing television sets , maybe they have to buy remote controls . or another way is maybe people who have tv sets are really fed up with their remote control and they really want a better one or something . user interface : i know um my parents went out and bought um remote controls because um they got fed up of having four or five different remote controls for each things the house . marketing : but right . right . user interface : so um for them it was just how many devices control . marketing : okay so right , so in function one of the priorities might be to combine as many uses project manager : yeah . right , so do you think that should be like a main design aim of our remote control d you know , marketing : i think so . project manager : do your your satellite and your regular telly and your v_c_r_ and everything ? marketing : yeah , yeah . yeah . well like um , maybe what we could use is a sort of like a example of a successful other piece technology is palm palm pilots . they 're gone from being just like little sort of scribble boards to cameras , m_p_ three players , telephones , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : everything , agenda . so , like , i wonder if we might add something new to the to the remote control market , project manager : yeah . marketing : such as the lighting in your house , or um project manager : or even like , you know , notes about um what you wan na watch . like you might put in there oh i want to watch such and such and look a marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : oh that 's a good idea . so extra functionalities . marketing : an yeah . like , p personally for me , at home i 've i 've combined the um the audio video of my television set and my d_v_d_ player and my c_d_ player . so they w all work actually function together but i have different remote controls for each of them . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's sort of ironic that that then they 're in there um you know , the sound and everything it 's just one system . but each one 's got its own little part . project manager : um okay , uh i 'd wel we 're gon na have to wrap up pretty quickly in the next couple of minutes . um i 'll just check we 've nothing else . okay . um so anything else anybody wants to add about what they do n't like about remote controls they 've used , what they would really like to be part of this new one at all ? industrial designer : and you keep losing them . project manager : you keep losing them . okay . industrial designer : finding them is really a pain , you know . marketing : mm . mm . industrial designer : i mean it 's usually quite small , or when you want it right , it slipped behind the couch marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : or it 's kicked under the table . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : w you get those ones where you can , if you like , whistle or make a really high pitched noise they beep . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : you know . marketing : that 's just really good id yep . project manager : there i mean is that something we 'd want to include , do you think ? marketing : uh , project manager : dunno . marketing : sure . project manager : okay maybe . marketing : i remember when the first remote control my my family had was on a cable . actually had a cable between it and the tv project manager : marketing : and big like buttons that sort of like , like on a blender or something . project manager : my goodness . marketing : and um , you know , when i think about what they are now , it 's better , but actually it 's still kind of , i dunno , like a massive junky thing on the table . project manager : still feels quite primitive . marketing : maybe we could think about how , could be more , you know , streamlined . s project manager : maybe like a touch screen or something ? marketing : something like that , yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : or whatever would be technologically reasonable . project manager : uh-huh , okay . well i guess that 's up to our industrial designer . marketing : 'cause it could b it could it could be that f it could be that functionally that does n't make it any better , but that just the appeal of of not having project manager : it looks better . marketing : you know , these days there 's a r pe things in people 's homes are becoming more and more like chic , you know . project manager : yeah . marketing : um , nicer materials project manager : okay . marketing : and might be project manager : okay . marketing : be worth exploring anyway . project manager : right , well um so just to wrap up the next meeting 's gon na be in thirty minutes . so that 's about um about ten to twelve by my watch . um so inbetween now and then , um as the industrial designer , you 're gon na be working on you know the actual working design of it so y you know what you 're doing there . um for user interface , technical functions , i guess that 's you know like what we 've been talking about , what it 'll actually do . um and uh marketing executive , you 'll be just thinking about what it actually what , you know , what requirements it has to has to fulfil and you 'll all get instructions emailed to you , i guess . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah , so it 's th the functional design stage is next , i guess . and uh and that 's the end of the meeting . so i got that little message a lot sooner than i thought i would , so marketing : um . before we wrap up , just to make sure we 're all on the same page here , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um , do we we were given sort of an example of a coffee machine or something , project manager : uh-huh , yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : right ? well , um are we at ma right now on the assumption that our television remote control may have features which go beyond the television ? or are we keeping sort of like a a design commitment to television features ? project manager : th okay , well just very quickly marketing : i i do n't know . project manager : 'cause this we 're supposed to finish now . um i guess that 's up to us , marketing : yep . yeah , sure . project manager : i mean you probably want some kind of unique selling point of it , so um , you know marketing : okay . industrial designer : i think one factor would be production cost . marketing : okay , yeah . industrial designer : because there 's a cap there , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so um depends on how much you can cram into that price . um . marketing : okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . industrial designer : i think that that 's the main factor . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : okay . project manager : right , okay , we 'll that 's that 's the end of the meeting , then . um marketing : alright . project manager : so , uh marketing : project manager : thank you all for coming . industrial designer : cool . </s>
<s> what did project manager recommend to do when discussing competitor information ? </s> project manager : um right , okay . let me just scoot on ahead here . okay . um well d does anybody have anything to add to uh to the finance issue at all ? thin marketing : do we have any other background information on like how that compares to other project manager : no , actually . that would be useful , though , marketing : other project manager : would n't it , if you knew like what your money would get you now . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , interesting thing about discussing um production of a remote control for me is that l as you point out , i just do n't think of remote controls as somethin something people consciously assess in their purchasing habits . project manager : yeah , yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group think of the importance of technology reasonable on the working design ? </s> project manager : there i mean is that something we 'd want to include , do you think ? marketing : uh , project manager : dunno . marketing : sure . project manager : okay maybe . marketing : i remember when the first remote control my my family had was on a cable . actually had a cable between it and the tv project manager : marketing : and big like buttons that sort of like , like on a blender or something . project manager : my goodness . marketing : and um , you know , when i think about what they are now , it 's better , but actually it 's still kind of , i dunno , like a massive junky thing on the table . project manager : still feels quite primitive . marketing : maybe we could think about how , could be more , you know , streamlined . s project manager : maybe like a touch screen or something ? marketing : something like that , yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : or whatever would be technologically reasonable . project manager : uh-huh , okay . well i guess that 's up to our industrial designer . marketing : 'cause it could b it could it could be that f it could be that functionally that does n't make it any better , but that just the appeal of of not having project manager : it looks better . marketing : you know , these days there 's a r pe things in people 's homes are becoming more and more like chic , you know . project manager : yeah . marketing : um , nicer materials project manager : okay . marketing : and might be project manager : okay . marketing : be worth exploring anyway . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : so hello . marketing : good afternoon . sorry i 'm a little late . project manager : no problem . marketing : got stuck in the traffic . project manager : okay . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : that 's possible on uh this time of day . starts at three o'clock . uh marketing : yeah . project manager : uh , let me see . our fourth and last meeting . there he is . yes . okay this our last meeting . in this meeting we will discuss our final design . and we will do some evaluation about the , not only the product , but also the project . and then we 're going to close the project today as well . so after this you will be uh free to go and uh spend all your money . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : and this uh design , detailed design meeting uh we will discuss uh the look-and-feel of the design , the usability interface design , and we will do the product evaluation . um , in order to do that we have this agenda . we 'll have the prototype presentation first . then we will set up some evaluation cri um criteria . then we will look at the finance . uh we will have to see if everything we wan na do is also possible within our budget . because everything costs money , and the more functions you wan na have the more money it will cost . so we have to see if it fits within the twelve and a half euro per remote . but we will see that later . then we will do the project uh evaluation , and the closing after that . industrial designer : project manager : we 've got forty minutes . so we will be finished at half past three . but first um we will do the this is prototype presentation . so , if some yeah if somebody wants step forward . industrial designer : okay . well this is what me and richard came up with . the default spot for the on-off button . the mute button just below that . then there 's the volume and channel selectors . simple plus-minus button . uh we thought of a help button . if you hold it and you press another button , uh the help goes to the lcd screen . then there 's the zero to one to zero buttons . a button for teletext . a button for the subtitles . and the company logo . so it 's rather simple prototype . and uh we 'll have to see from testing uh how the users take it . project manager : okay . marketing : um , is this the moment where we ask or can ask questions about the functionality ? user interface : so yeah . yeah . industrial designer : sure uh just pop in at any time . marketing : um , when you 're in teletext there usually are buttons where you just you just press it and you g go to the next teletext page . user interface : uh , that 's just uh the normal uh as th as the normal uh remote controls uh so um you put it uh you um came in uh page uh one hundred . now you can use the normal uh one to zero buttons . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and you but you can also uh use the um button th for uh changing the the channel . s so uh the shifting uh button . uh for uh yeah shif shifting up in uh on t on t uh teletext , and shifting uh down . so marketing : okay . okay . um yeah . project manager : okay . uh but um i thought in a few meetings earlier we uh uh tried to keep it uh simple . uh just a few buttons and large buttons . user interface : oh yeah ? project manager : but uh i think these are altogether quite a quite a few buttons . so i 'm wondering if we if we neely really need all of those buttons . user interface : industrial designer : i think if you look at most controls , they 've got more buttons than this . project manager : that 's right . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and well the on-off button , it 's it 's a necessity . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you ca n't drop that one . the volume and channel buttons , you need you obviously need those those . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the mute button could be replaced uh by pressing the volume-down button twice . so we could cancel that one . i think the help button really is necessary user interface : yeah yeah . industrial designer : because there 's no other way to know when someone wants to know what a button does . user interface : uh , or you can build in uh when you press uh one button uh uh project manager : long time . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : if you put user interface : but m yeah . we disc discuss that already . but uh we think uh old people uh do n't know that uh option . so uh they just put in uh put press uh the button and uh project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : well , you ca n't leave out the number buttons i guess . project manager : yeah . user interface : and uh project manager : uh teletext and subtitles are yeah necessary . industrial designer : and yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so it 's rather basic already . marketing : yeah . think so . that 's what i pointed out earlier . if you just make a control for just the tv there 's just not much to gain here . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . so we had somebody about th interfa something about the design of the buttons there ? industrial designer : yeah , they 're project manager : just n normal plain buttons . user interface : yeah . yeah , industrial designer : it 's rather hard to draw on the white-board . user interface : it industrial designer : but they 're supposed to be equal sized , round , with a with a little logo on it for the for the volume , the the triangle and stuff . project manager : yeah . 'kay . user interface : yeah yeah . just to recognise it , so uh industrial designer : just for recognition . user interface : uh yeah and now we do n't need uh leds or um y uh s some uh remote controls uh do it also , but um uh because we use the little display we do n't uh have to use it . uh so project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : so and for the materials we 've just chosen for rubber buttons . with a a different colour than the case . so they jump out . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and uh that 's about it . project manager : that 's nice . then because we only have thirty minutes left , i will move on to the finance part , which is pretty exciting , to see if it 's all possible what we wan na do . and i can tell you that we 're going to have a pretty hard time producing this for twelve and a half euros . marketing : project manager : if we see i do n't know if i 've filled in correctly , so just correct me if you see uh something wrong . i counted two batteries . but maybe we can also use one . i do n't know if it 's possible . marketing : since it rechargeable . project manager : it 's rechargeable . that 's right . user interface : yeah we can u just uh project manager : okay . that 's two euros off . user interface : 'kay . project manager : we need the advanced chip . so there 's not much to uh to save there . here we have the single curves . uh we can see that the difference between uncurved and the single curved is one euro . um , i do n't know , but i think the single curved is good for design , and also for the display to have a prominent place on the remote control . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think we have to keep that . user interface : yeah . project manager : then we have the case material supplements . it 's plastic . it 's the cheapest one we need . so that 's uh not much to save either . but then the biggest costs are the buttons . so maybe we really should try to discard some buttons to uh keep our costs low . user interface : okay . project manager : because you have to we will have to get the twelve and a half euros at the end . um , user interface : yeah . project manager : so if we let 's fir first count the buttons we have now . user interface : uh sixteen , i believe so . project manager : because i sixteen . nah , that will be even more then . eighteen euros . so , user interface : uh seventeen . uh with the help button . project manager : seventeen . industrial designer : marketing : um project manager : okay , including the help ? marketing : damn . project manager : yeah . uh seventeen . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think we can uh discard the help and the mute button uh by pressing down volume long , or pressing down a a number long . marketing : user interface : . project manager : that saves us uh one euro already . 'cause then we have got fifteen i think ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : would n't project manager : fifteen buttons . marketing : yeah . no . that would n't be an option . project manager : and this is marketing : uh , d i assume you 'd count the volume and channel thingies for two buttons each , right ? project manager : no those are one , i think . user interface : yeah . where did uh marketing : well , think actually there 're two buttons , user interface : uh , it 's just one button . marketing : are n't they ? user interface : but , um yeah . there were uh two uh for one big button . but they are uh more expensive than the small ones . uh , yeah . so project manager : yeah but th it 's not stated in this files . user interface : it 's just a . project manager : so maybe we can we can even make one button with the volume and the channel in one , by pressing marketing : well i was thinking , maybe you could just integrate three of those numbers to one button . project manager : that 's possibility as well . marketing : that would cut the cost . project manager : so and it 's good for the design as well . so you can make uh let 's see . if you make this looks a bit like uh a cross . plus . min . user interface : but i do n't do n't know if if it 's cheaper . project manager : uh s yeah channel . user interface : so uh , project manager : yeah w user interface : we 've still got four buttons , but just um so project manager : yeah th i think they count uh the materials . user interface : you got uh not not a butt button itself , but uh on the um project manager : yeah on the chip there . yeah . user interface : yeah . on the chip you 've got still uh four uh four buttons . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's right . that 's right . user interface : so project manager : but i think because we have the advanced chip marketing : yeah . project manager : we can just count this as one button . user interface : yeah , but marketing : but , i think this really is four buttons anyhow . project manager : but no but i think yeah . maybe it is , but then it seems to me that it 's impossible to get the twelve and a half euros . also the l_c_ display , i think it 's , i think it 's too expensive for the display we use . industrial designer : uh that 's that 's a big cost . project manager : i think they uh try t industrial designer : if we leave out the display we can also save money on the chip . project manager : that 's right , but what 's the big advantage of our remote then ? marketing : only the docking station , i guess . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : which is n't the the docking station is n't even in this c s schematic . so it 's not even taken into the price . project manager : that 's extra . that 's extra . that 's right . marketing : maybe we should to a different supplier . project manager : that 's an option . marketing : yeah . project manager : poland . something . polish supplier . do n't you think we can , if we can count this as v as one button , and integrate th uh these buttons in three , then we save a lot of money as well . industrial designer : we we could save money on it . but would it make the remote more usable for elderly people ? user interface : . marketing : yeah , that 's what i 'm wondering . industrial designer : my mother ca n't even send send an s_m_s_ message . project manager : yeah . that 's a point . industrial designer : so user interface : are we gon na buy a um a remote control uh when you can uh use it ? marketing : um user interface : so um yeah . we m uh we must um stay below the um below um twelve uh fifty or ca n't uh go um industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well , since the market research indicated that older people spend their money easier , more easy , maybe it 's feasible to just put the price of the remote up a little . especially since we have those nice features . project manager : yeah but uh we have to stick to the twelve and a half euros . we do n't have any more budget to develop it . user interface : is it impossible to industrial designer : the margin will get too small . yeah . project manager : yeah . so user interface : but it is possible to make one uh for uh twelve fifty . project manager : it is . if you leave out the l_c_ display . and if you use less buttons . say or you can take the single chip . user interface : i do n't think so . marketing : it would be a be a pretty rigid one . user interface : s yeah . marketing : user interface : but , you ca n't use uh project manager : there it is . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : but then w good looking . user interface : uh , wi with n oh , with uh attractive uh o options . project manager : yeah . user interface : so uh , you can stay uh below uh twelve fifty . so project manager : i think it 's uh difficult as well , but marketing : basically becoming a choice between like either a good remote and a higher production cost , or just any other remote control . industrial designer : no remote . project manager : or we can leave out the ten buttons and take one scroll wheel for the programme numbers . then w user interface : scroll-wheel 's one . industrial designer : that 's project manager : because then we save ten buttons . user interface : no , it project manager : then we have five and one . user interface : yeah . project manager : and and see . if we have this one and we 've got the advanced w uh , we 're getting close . industrial designer : we 're getting closer . user interface : yeah . marketing : but how does scroll-wheel work here ? project manager : then you will or maybe you can um scroll . if you scroll you will see the numbers on the lcd display . until you 've got the right number , then you push it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that would bring up the price of the scroll-wheel also . integrated scroll-wheel push-button . project manager : alright . it 's got ta scroll and push . okay but then you you can push uh some other button as well . marketing : but yeah . industrial designer : you could just not scroll for a half a second . project manager : yeah . that 's right . so if you scroll to a number and then you wait a half second , then it g turns to that channel . industrial designer : so you wo n't need a button . marketing : i think that would be like the end of our usability . project manager : but it would definitely crop cost , a lot . user interface : d yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , but project manager : and we need the battery . and the regular chip is not possible ? it has to be advanced ? industrial designer : if you want to use an lcd screen you you need an advanced chip , yes . project manager : it has to be advanced . yeah . okay . and we can save a euro by a flat design . that 's an option we can user interface : ja ja . project manager : then we 're almost there . industrial designer : yeah if you v could just leave out one more button . project manager : yeah . so if we user interface : yeah , or we have to uh skip the subtitle uh button . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah but i think that 's that is a big advantage , user interface : so yeah project manager : if we 're user interface : yeah it 's a big advantage . project manager : but user interface : but um , it 's project manager : can we use ca n't we integrate the teletext and the subtitles in one button ? user interface : uh , yeah . industrial designer : i think so . yeah . project manager : if you push it three times ? marketing : well , think it 's pretty much the teletext subtitles are user interface : yeah . marketing : right now you just push the teletext button , go to page eight eight eight , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and teletext disappears . but the subtitles stay there . user interface : but if you push the teletext button twice industrial designer : what if you have to scroll to page eighty eight ? eight hundred eighty eight . marketing : i think that 's the case on most user interface : it 's uh one m uh one b uh , a few buttons . project manager : ah that 's not really that marketing : well , that could be just uh like the scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click . industrial designer : yeah . okay . marketing : but then again that would be d j just pretty much not an option for older people , who do n't even know what a scroll-wheel is . user interface : yeah . marketing : holding a remote with which they expect to have like ten buttons for the numbers one to zero . industrial designer : marketing : with only five buttons on it . and a scroll-wheel . project manager : i think if you make a good advertisement uh on television and in the in the guide , you can explain to the people how to use the scroll wheel . if you just make it real simple . because it saves it saves a lot of money . and we can keep our lcd screen , which can provide extra information . how to use the scroll wheel . how to use the other bu buttons as subtitles . marketing : true . true . project manager : and it 's good for the innovative design as well . if you would erase these . mm eraser ? and we put uh looks a bit odd maybe . marketing : that 's a pretty big scroll wheel . project manager : that is something like that . marketing : project manager : then , yeah . we 've got the scroll-wheel . one , two , three , four , five buttons , if we erase this one . and these are two buttons then . industrial designer : we could make two buttons out of that . and just um if you press the volume button you can control the volume with the scroll-wheel . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so that would save two buttons . if you do the same for the channel . project manager : yeah . that 's really a good good idea , i think . and it will make the use of the scroll wheel uh more obvious indeed . industrial designer : more obvious . project manager : so we make one for the volume , one for the channel . plus scroll . that 's right . industrial designer : so if we project manager : so we 've got one , two , three . yeah , we can leave the teletext in if we want . that 's m that 's better . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so marketing : so this is five buttons . industrial designer : if we leave out all those buttons , perhaps you can go with the flat flat case . and make it smaller overall . project manager : y yeah . industrial designer : so if you put the the volume and channel buttons on the same height as the on-off button , the screen right behi under that , than the scroll button project manager : mm yeah . uh yeah , and then you can industrial designer : you get a a much smaller remote . project manager : that 's right . user interface : uh yeah . industrial designer : and it sh project manager : so we can decrease this one to four buttons . industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : right now we have five . user interface : but uh , you can make a f quite a big uh remote remote control for uh just the same price as a small one . project manager : yeah . that 's no problem . user interface : just uh you only have to pay for the double curved or single curved . it uh it 's a bit uh project manager : yeah . yeah . it 's uh it 's more the moulds in which they are being made , i think . single curved is really easy to just fill in . and cases come right out of the machine . user interface : . project manager : and single curved you have to have a different uh different machine , than a flat one . i think this is a really easy one . um , what does everybody think about a flat or a single curved design ? freek , what do you think ? marketing : well , i still think we should go for the single curve design . user interface : . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but then again , all these changes are not really okay with me . industrial designer : richard 's argument was very good . yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : but since we just have to . project manager : we have to cut costs . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah i 'm ag marketing : i 'd rather just go to the board and get us to spend eighteen dollars a a remote . project manager : ask for more money . yeah . yeah . i am agreeing with the usability . yeah . marketing : or do some market research and see what the options are . project manager : yeah . but th um i think we can then keep the single curved one . just to express our lcd screen a bit more . marketing : yeah . project manager : so people will use it more , and especially for the help functions , user interface : yeah . project manager : it will be good if we have scroll bar , scroll button . it will be necessary to have good help function , as well . so this is scroll . i think it was better to have this price list a bit earlier . before we went on to the to the whole design . marketing : yes . definitely . user interface : the th project manager : but i 'm glad we could make a bit . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's pretty different , if you saw the last one than this one . marketing : it 's pretty different . user interface : marketing : but this is not really like for the group we were making our remote . this will really require a lot of marketing to get this to sell . project manager : yeah . it will . yeah . user interface : but um marketing : 'cause if older people like familiar forms and familiar stuff . this is not familiar for them . project manager : no , but i think marketing : so we 're gon na have to do a lotta convincing them . project manager : i think the most user interface : but they know the scroll-buttons from uh old radios . uh they cal also uh buttons like that for uh changing uh channels . project manager : that 's right . marketing : yeah . project manager : we can let l user interface : so maybe it 's uh project manager : we can stick it out , a bit . like a old old buttons . user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : maybe that 's recognisable for them as well . yeah . that 's a good one . user interface : yeah . project manager : so , i 'm afraid we have to move on . and it 's uh it 's b uh less frightening , i think . if they see this design they think oh , there are only five buttons , and uh but we will see . user interface : yeah . marketing : that 's true . might uh might be confusing too . project manager : yeah . that 's definitely right . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : they 'd be like , what ? only five buttons ? project manager : yeah . user interface : but very special , so uh project manager : i would buy it . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : yeah . but you 're not sixty . project manager : that 's right . i would buy it if i was six . no i do n't know . what it costs under twelve and a half euros ? no ? uh , yes they are . industrial designer : user interface : no . project manager : no . but we can go on with the project evaluation . industrial designer : marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : let 's see . i can sit down i think . we still have fifteen minutes left , so we 're nice on schedule . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , the project process . marketing : so um , i like set up all these criteria . and evaluation of the thingy . project manager : evaluation criteria . that 's right . that was the the point i forgot . i should industrial designer : project manager : there we are . evaluation criteria . user interface : marketing : thank you . project manager : go ahead . industrial designer : project manager : we 've got five minutes i think for those criteria . marketing : five more minutes ? project manager : no we 've got fifteen minutes but marketing : okay . project manager : uh yes . what ? marketing : 'kay so i did some literature study study , and analysis of the requirements we set up earlier . project manager : uh yeah . marketing : translated it into criteria , which would be these . um , is the remote fancy ? the shape , look and feel . innovative ? what new functions are there ? uh , easy to use ? uh , learnability is a very important factor here . uh , is it functional ? are there not too many functions uh among the functions ? and are the those functions that are there , are they useful ? and the cost . the target group . is the remote really for the group we 're making it for ? and recognability . if our company is if it is easily recognisable that our company made it ? and so we 're supposed to evaluate it right now . project manager : okay . marketing : let 's see . oh i have to say this was a little hard , because the minutes of our last meeting were not here . project manager : yeah , that 's because my pen failed to upload his data . user interface : mm . yeah ? marketing : okay . project manager : i tried to marketing : interesting . project manager : but it 's uh it 's giving errors by downloading the software . marketing : so user interface : mm . 'kay . marketing : is the design fancy , on a scale of one to seven ? project manager : i think it 's fancy . yeah . six . user interface : uh six . yeah . marketing : we all go for six ? good . um , is the design innovative ? project manager : very . user interface : mm . sh marketing : i think so , with our lcd screen , docking station , scroll-buttons . project manager : subtitles , buttons . yeah . seven . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : seven ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so we 've got twenty cents for our docking station , huh ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : should be do-able . project manager : yeah . that 's right . marketing : is the design easy to use ? user interface : mm . not really . project manager : that 's a bit dodgy . marketing : well would be for us . but user interface : for old people i i project manager : i would say four . four or five between . between four or five . industrial designer : four or five . yes . user interface : yeah . four . marketing : i 'd go for four , too . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : is it functional ? industrial designer : marketing : is the design functional ? um , do we have all functions that we want to include ? user interface : n yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i think we do . do we have too many functions ? i do n't think so . it 's pretty slim . project manager : think it 's uh seven . marketing : seven . oh , and do we um take care of the biggest frustrations of the remote control ? like it getting lost and r_s_i_ influences ? industrial designer : mm , we have n't thought of that one . project manager : it was . marketing : think we do . project manager : i had them worked out . mm . they are ugly , not very functional , and getting lost . user interface : yeah . marketing : are the production costs within the preset limits ? industrial designer : marketing : well they are now . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : does the design fit the group of focus ? user interface : mm , th yeah . industrial designer : i think that 's a three . marketing : yeah . project manager : no i think with our new radio button , i think it 's uh i think it 's better . marketing : i think it does n't . user interface : yeah . uh we have to test it s but marketing : i do n't know . industrial designer : i still i think it 's too m too fancy . too too flashy . marketing : i think project manager : i think it marketing : i think a radio button is not exactly what older people expect to have a remote control . user interface : uh , yeah , true . project manager : yeah . i would give it a four . marketing : i 'm not sure . i think i 'd go for two . user interface : i go for three . so project manager : then we have to do the three . it 's the marketing : 'kay . is the company company recognisable ? project manager : yes it is . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : well , we have the logo there . project manager : yeah . marketing : so project manager : and they wan na put fashion in their products . uh in the slogan of the company . and we have the removable front cases . so , i think it 's very recognisable . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . so that will be this . i was also supposed to calculate the score , but thought we would have another private thingy after this . project manager : we 've got a calculate it . mm ? industrial designer : twendag sieven an twendag . marketing : is this like after this , are we done ? or project manager : n we 've gon na we 're going to evaluate it . marketing : we 're gon na go to our other room again . well , anyhow . these are seven factors times seven is forty something . two ? no . project manager : forty nine . marketing : nine ? uh , minus one . minus three , minus four . minus four . so that would be minus eight . forty one out of forty nine . project manager : forty one . that 's around eighty percent . marketing : okay . project manager : what is it ? marketing : guess i 'll just type that in on the bottom here . project manager : that 's eighty four percent . i think that 's a pretty nice score . user interface : hmm . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : hmm . 'kay . so that will be the evaluation . project manager : thank you . so , that brings us to the project evaluation . yep . thank you . marketing : project manager : project process . did we move through the right phases , you think ? along the process ? user interface : yeah . but it marketing : think we should have a should have had the finance thingy a lot earlier . in the design phase . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's right . so lack of information about prices . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . that 's true . marketing : yeah . definitely . project manager : okay . uh okay . satisfaction . was there room for creativity ? no ? user interface : marketing : not too much . no . project manager : it 's because of the finance sheet . yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , there w there was enough room , but the finance uh marketing : yeah , true . but project manager : the room was yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and i would 've liked to go for the younger users also . user interface : . marketing : and just to be able to access internet and get something of your own . project manager : restrictions . internet access . 'kay . leadership . was it clear what everybody had to do uh according to their roles and functions ? yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : teamwork ? did it work out ? working together ? also , you two of you with the uh last phase ? user interface : so industrial designer : yes , was okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : nice . industrial designer : the tasks are very structured , so you can just do step by step and it 's very easy . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : tasks . okay . were the means sufficient for the tasks uh we had to do ? or were they too much ? industrial designer : well , the smart-board , the d d drawing is just a pain in the ass , but the digital the digital pen is very nice . user interface : marketing : project manager : smart-board . user interface : yeah . project manager : if it wants to download its uh data . user interface : but marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : yes . yeah . user interface : uh project manager : failed download . smart-board was irritating . so you rather wanted to have a flip-over ? or something else ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : a flip-over or a more precise uh digit user interface : a flipper 's uh easier , so yeah . project manager : faster as well , i think . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . flip-over . user interface : but if you want to share uh of uh when you make um a picture like this uh on the presentation , it 's easier to uh share it with uh other people . uh so uh project manager : yeah . user interface : you can sh save it uh and uh put it on the internet , or uh uh in shared f uh folder or uh sh uh shared directory . marketing : yeah , user interface : so so marketing : i tried to open the file on my laptop , user interface : yeah ? no ? industrial designer : no . did n't work . marketing : but not possible . project manager : uh you need a smart board uh application i think . marketing : yeah . project manager : but i think you can user interface : t can uh can you export it uh like a yeah . project manager : yeah . should be possible . yeah you can export it as image . marketing : no . project manager : must yeah must be marketing : should 've done that then . project manager : so the sharing of the information was uh was okay ? user interface : . marketing : pen is here . project manager : uh , network . user interface : uh . project manager : yeah , pen is here on the table . marketing : user interface : uh , yeah . so you can uh project manager : yeah . it 's possible . user interface : it 's possible . marketing : mm . yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : that 's nice . have we found new ideas for having this kind of meetings ? or user interface : um , yeah maybe um uh when we n uh just uh give the numbers of of uh uh uh o one of uh out of s uh sev project manager : yeah . user interface : um it 's uh easier to uh to do the th things that are like that on a computer . uh , so uh just l uh like uh at u university uh project manager : yeah . so yeah . so everybody puts his own score . user interface : so marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then it mediates the score , user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : and you can get one user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's better . so that 's uh how do we call ? evaluation criteria . okay . mm , any more ideas ? or questions about the project ? or about the product ? because i think then that we get to our last sheet . are the costs within the budget ? user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . marketing : they are . industrial designer : considering we are not going to make a docking station . project manager : do we docking station . that 's a good point . user interface : . project manager : but maybe because of the docking station the price of the remote can also be a little bit higher ? marketing : yeah . project manager : uh and i think you can compensate that as well . industrial designer : perhaps . project manager : so i think that should n't be the biggest problem , because it 's very cheap to make as well . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : do we think we gon na get the twelve and a half million ? user interface : yeah . project manager : or what was it ? marketing : fifty grand . project manager : fifteen fifteen million . i think we will . if we gon na export this product . it 's innovative . marketing : yeah . project manager : especially in america . people are pretty decadent . sometimes . user interface : yeah . mm . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , still i think i mean if we 're n gon na make a scroll-button anyway it 'd be more for the younger people than for the older people . project manager : you can do more . yeah . marketing : so maybe we should just re-focus . project manager : just put it on the market for everybody . you can you can change markets where by changing the front covers . marketing : or specifically for younger people . project manager : that 's one thing you can change it with . marketing : that 's true . project manager : so you can also try to uh reach the younger people by uh putting fancy covers on on the market . just as a test . see how it works . that 's i think a good advantage . marketing : yeah , i think then it would be way more uh popular with younger people than it is , than would be with older people . even if it were their covers . project manager : yeah . uh , uh then i think we can have our little celebration , right now . marketing : but user interface : project manager : that 's it . marketing : party party . project manager : yeah . i think we still have to fit in one more questionnaire . i think . user interface : where 's the champagne ? marketing : 'kay . project manager : i do n't know . i did n't get a message from the from ending of the user interface : uh , i believe y uh project manager : oh i think i have one now . marketing : oh you did . project manager : five more minutes ? oh that 's nice . user interface : okay . project manager : then we still have some questions . if somebody has some questions they can ask them now . or we can put these in the project folder as well . maybe that 's marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : marketing : project manager : export as picture , i think . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : hmm . this is another network , i guess . does somebody see the project folder ? marketing : user interface : project manager : i do n't . hmm . my documents . user interface : uh maybe uh they will save it . so uh project manager : yeah , i 'll just put it in my documents marketing : yeah , it probably will . project manager : and uh that 's okay . okay . i think i 'm going to make our final presentation now . marketing : oh yeah , you 're supposed to make a final project manager : and then i will be back in about ten minutes to show you the final presentation . summary of the project . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : are we supposed to go into our own rooms again ? user interface : uh maybe we have to fill uh another questionnaire . project manager : yeah . questionnaire . i think you all get a questionnaire in in your room . user interface : so uh marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : and then i 'll meet you in i think about ten minutes , or something . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . project manager : hopefully my pen will download its software . oh . or data . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about finance and budget control . </s> project manager : that 's nice . then because we only have thirty minutes left , i will move on to the finance part , which is pretty exciting , to see if it 's all possible what we wan na do . and i can tell you that we 're going to have a pretty hard time producing this for twelve and a half euros . marketing : project manager : if we see i do n't know if i 've filled in correctly , so just correct me if you see uh something wrong . i counted two batteries . but maybe we can also use one . i do n't know if it 's possible . marketing : since it rechargeable . project manager : it 's rechargeable . that 's right . user interface : yeah we can u just uh project manager : okay . that 's two euros off . user interface : 'kay . project manager : we need the advanced chip . so there 's not much to uh to save there . here we have the single curves . uh we can see that the difference between uncurved and the single curved is one euro . um , i do n't know , but i think the single curved is good for design , and also for the display to have a prominent place on the remote control . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think we have to keep that . user interface : yeah . project manager : then we have the case material supplements . it 's plastic . it 's the cheapest one we need . so that 's uh not much to save either . but then the biggest costs are the buttons . so maybe we really should try to discard some buttons to uh keep our costs low . user interface : okay . project manager : because you have to we will have to get the twelve and a half euros at the end . um , user interface : yeah . project manager : so if we let 's fir first count the buttons we have now . user interface : uh sixteen , i believe so . project manager : because i sixteen . nah , that will be even more then . eighteen euros . so , user interface : uh seventeen . uh with the help button . project manager : seventeen . industrial designer : marketing : um project manager : okay , including the help ? marketing : damn . project manager : yeah . uh seventeen . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think we can uh discard the help and the mute button uh by pressing down volume long , or pressing down a a number long . marketing : user interface : . project manager : that saves us uh one euro already . 'cause then we have got fifteen i think ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : would n't project manager : fifteen buttons . marketing : yeah . no . that would n't be an option . project manager : and this is marketing : uh , d i assume you 'd count the volume and channel thingies for two buttons each , right ? project manager : no those are one , i think . user interface : yeah . where did uh marketing : well , think actually there 're two buttons , user interface : uh , it 's just one button . marketing : are n't they ? user interface : but , um yeah . there were uh two uh for one big button . but they are uh more expensive than the small ones . uh , yeah . so project manager : yeah but th it 's not stated in this files . user interface : it 's just a . project manager : so maybe we can we can even make one button with the volume and the channel in one , by pressing marketing : well i was thinking , maybe you could just integrate three of those numbers to one button . project manager : that 's possibility as well . marketing : that would cut the cost . project manager : so and it 's good for the design as well . so you can make uh let 's see . if you make this looks a bit like uh a cross . plus . min . user interface : but i do n't do n't know if if it 's cheaper . project manager : uh s yeah channel . user interface : so uh , project manager : yeah w user interface : we 've still got four buttons , but just um so project manager : yeah th i think they count uh the materials . user interface : you got uh not not a butt button itself , but uh on the um project manager : yeah on the chip there . yeah . user interface : yeah . on the chip you 've got still uh four uh four buttons . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's right . that 's right . user interface : so project manager : but i think because we have the advanced chip marketing : yeah . project manager : we can just count this as one button . user interface : yeah , but marketing : but , i think this really is four buttons anyhow . project manager : but no but i think yeah . maybe it is , but then it seems to me that it 's impossible to get the twelve and a half euros . also the l_c_ display , i think it 's , i think it 's too expensive for the display we use . industrial designer : uh that 's that 's a big cost . project manager : i think they uh try t industrial designer : if we leave out the display we can also save money on the chip . project manager : that 's right , but what 's the big advantage of our remote then ? marketing : only the docking station , i guess . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : which is n't the the docking station is n't even in this c s schematic . so it 's not even taken into the price . project manager : that 's extra . that 's extra . that 's right . marketing : maybe we should to a different supplier . project manager : that 's an option . marketing : yeah . project manager : poland . something . polish supplier . do n't you think we can , if we can count this as v as one button , and integrate th uh these buttons in three , then we save a lot of money as well . industrial designer : we we could save money on it . but would it make the remote more usable for elderly people ? user interface : . marketing : yeah , that 's what i 'm wondering . industrial designer : my mother ca n't even send send an s_m_s_ message . project manager : yeah . that 's a point . industrial designer : so user interface : are we gon na buy a um a remote control uh when you can uh use it ? marketing : um user interface : so um yeah . we m uh we must um stay below the um below um twelve uh fifty or ca n't uh go um industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well , since the market research indicated that older people spend their money easier , more easy , maybe it 's feasible to just put the price of the remote up a little . especially since we have those nice features . project manager : yeah but uh we have to stick to the twelve and a half euros . we do n't have any more budget to develop it . user interface : is it impossible to industrial designer : the margin will get too small . yeah . project manager : yeah . so user interface : but it is possible to make one uh for uh twelve fifty . project manager : it is . if you leave out the l_c_ display . and if you use less buttons . say or you can take the single chip . user interface : i do n't think so . marketing : it would be a be a pretty rigid one . user interface : s yeah . marketing : user interface : but , you ca n't use uh project manager : there it is . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : but then w good looking . user interface : uh , wi with n oh , with uh attractive uh o options . project manager : yeah . user interface : so uh , you can stay uh below uh twelve fifty . so project manager : i think it 's uh difficult as well , but marketing : basically becoming a choice between like either a good remote and a higher production cost , or just any other remote control . industrial designer : no remote . project manager : or we can leave out the ten buttons and take one scroll wheel for the programme numbers . then w user interface : scroll-wheel 's one . industrial designer : that 's project manager : because then we save ten buttons . user interface : no , it project manager : then we have five and one . user interface : yeah . project manager : and and see . if we have this one and we 've got the advanced w uh , we 're getting close . industrial designer : we 're getting closer . user interface : yeah . marketing : but how does scroll-wheel work here ? project manager : then you will or maybe you can um scroll . if you scroll you will see the numbers on the lcd display . until you 've got the right number , then you push it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that would bring up the price of the scroll-wheel also . integrated scroll-wheel push-button . project manager : alright . it 's got ta scroll and push . okay but then you you can push uh some other button as well . marketing : but yeah . industrial designer : you could just not scroll for a half a second . project manager : yeah . that 's right . so if you scroll to a number and then you wait a half second , then it g turns to that channel . industrial designer : so you wo n't need a button . marketing : i think that would be like the end of our usability . project manager : but it would definitely crop cost , a lot . user interface : d yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , but project manager : and we need the battery . and the regular chip is not possible ? it has to be advanced ? industrial designer : if you want to use an lcd screen you you need an advanced chip , yes . project manager : it has to be advanced . yeah . okay . and we can save a euro by a flat design . that 's an option we can user interface : ja ja . project manager : then we 're almost there . industrial designer : yeah if you v could just leave out one more button . project manager : yeah . so if we user interface : yeah , or we have to uh skip the subtitle uh button . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah but i think that 's that is a big advantage , user interface : so yeah project manager : if we 're user interface : yeah it 's a big advantage . project manager : but user interface : but um , it 's project manager : can we use ca n't we integrate the teletext and the subtitles in one button ? user interface : uh , yeah . industrial designer : i think so . yeah . project manager : if you push it three times ? marketing : well , think it 's pretty much the teletext subtitles are user interface : yeah . marketing : right now you just push the teletext button , go to page eight eight eight , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and teletext disappears . but the subtitles stay there . user interface : but if you push the teletext button twice industrial designer : what if you have to scroll to page eighty eight ? eight hundred eighty eight . marketing : i think that 's the case on most user interface : it 's uh one m uh one b uh , a few buttons . project manager : ah that 's not really that marketing : well , that could be just uh like the scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click . industrial designer : yeah . okay . marketing : but then again that would be d j just pretty much not an option for older people , who do n't even know what a scroll-wheel is . user interface : yeah . marketing : holding a remote with which they expect to have like ten buttons for the numbers one to zero . industrial designer : marketing : with only five buttons on it . and a scroll-wheel . project manager : i think if you make a good advertisement uh on television and in the in the guide , you can explain to the people how to use the scroll wheel . if you just make it real simple . because it saves it saves a lot of money . and we can keep our lcd screen , which can provide extra information . how to use the scroll wheel . how to use the other bu buttons as subtitles . marketing : true . true . project manager : and it 's good for the innovative design as well . if you would erase these . mm eraser ? and we put uh looks a bit odd maybe . marketing : that 's a pretty big scroll wheel . project manager : that is something like that . marketing : project manager : then , yeah . we 've got the scroll-wheel . one , two , three , four , five buttons , if we erase this one . and these are two buttons then . industrial designer : we could make two buttons out of that . and just um if you press the volume button you can control the volume with the scroll-wheel . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so that would save two buttons . if you do the same for the channel . project manager : yeah . that 's really a good good idea , i think . and it will make the use of the scroll wheel uh more obvious indeed . industrial designer : more obvious . project manager : so we make one for the volume , one for the channel . plus scroll . that 's right . industrial designer : so if we project manager : so we 've got one , two , three . yeah , we can leave the teletext in if we want . that 's m that 's better . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so marketing : so this is five buttons . industrial designer : if we leave out all those buttons , perhaps you can go with the flat flat case . and make it smaller overall . project manager : y yeah . industrial designer : so if you put the the volume and channel buttons on the same height as the on-off button , the screen right behi under that , than the scroll button project manager : mm yeah . uh yeah , and then you can industrial designer : you get a a much smaller remote . project manager : that 's right . user interface : uh yeah . industrial designer : and it sh project manager : so we can decrease this one to four buttons . industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : right now we have five . user interface : but uh , you can make a f quite a big uh remote remote control for uh just the same price as a small one . project manager : yeah . that 's no problem . user interface : just uh you only have to pay for the double curved or single curved . it uh it 's a bit uh project manager : yeah . yeah . it 's uh it 's more the moulds in which they are being made , i think . single curved is really easy to just fill in . and cases come right out of the machine . user interface : . project manager : and single curved you have to have a different uh different machine , than a flat one . i think this is a really easy one . um , what does everybody think about a flat or a single curved design ? freek , what do you think ? marketing : well , i still think we should go for the single curve design . user interface : . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but then again , all these changes are not really okay with me . industrial designer : richard 's argument was very good . yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : but since we just have to . project manager : we have to cut costs . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah i 'm ag marketing : i 'd rather just go to the board and get us to spend eighteen dollars a a remote . project manager : ask for more money . yeah . yeah . i am agreeing with the usability . yeah . marketing : or do some market research and see what the options are . project manager : yeah . but th um i think we can then keep the single curved one . just to express our lcd screen a bit more . marketing : yeah . project manager : so people will use it more , and especially for the help functions , user interface : yeah . project manager : it will be good if we have scroll bar , scroll button . it will be necessary to have good help function , as well . so this is scroll . i think it was better to have this price list a bit earlier . before we went on to the to the whole design . marketing : yes . definitely . user interface : the th project manager : but i 'm glad we could make a bit . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's pretty different , if you saw the last one than this one . marketing : it 's pretty different . user interface : marketing : but this is not really like for the group we were making our remote . this will really require a lot of marketing to get this to sell . project manager : yeah . it will . yeah . user interface : but um marketing : 'cause if older people like familiar forms and familiar stuff . this is not familiar for them . project manager : no , but i think marketing : so we 're gon na have to do a lotta convincing them . project manager : i think the most user interface : but they know the scroll-buttons from uh old radios . uh they cal also uh buttons like that for uh changing uh channels . project manager : that 's right . marketing : yeah . project manager : we can let l user interface : so maybe it 's uh project manager : we can stick it out , a bit . like a old old buttons . user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : maybe that 's recognisable for them as well . yeah . that 's a good one . user interface : yeah . project manager : so , i 'm afraid we have to move on . and it 's uh it 's b uh less frightening , i think . if they see this design they think oh , there are only five buttons , and uh but we will see . user interface : yeah . marketing : that 's true . might uh might be confusing too . project manager : yeah . that 's definitely right . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : they 'd be like , what ? only five buttons ? project manager : yeah . user interface : but very special , so uh project manager : i would buy it . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : yeah . but you 're not sixty . project manager : that 's right . i would buy it if i was six . no i do n't know . what it costs under twelve and a half euros ? no ? uh , yes they are . industrial designer : </s>
<s> how did the group decide to reduce the cost of buttons ? </s> project manager : i think we can uh discard the help and the mute button uh by pressing down volume long , or pressing down a a number long . marketing : user interface : . project manager : that saves us uh one euro already . 'cause then we have got fifteen i think ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : would n't project manager : fifteen buttons . marketing : yeah . no . that would n't be an option . project manager : and this is marketing : uh , d i assume you 'd count the volume and channel thingies for two buttons each , right ? project manager : no those are one , i think . user interface : yeah . where did uh marketing : well , think actually there 're two buttons , user interface : uh , it 's just one button . marketing : are n't they ? user interface : but , um yeah . there were uh two uh for one big button . but they are uh more expensive than the small ones . uh , yeah . so project manager : yeah but th it 's not stated in this files . user interface : it 's just a . project manager : so maybe we can we can even make one button with the volume and the channel in one , by pressing marketing : well i was thinking , maybe you could just integrate three of those numbers to one button . project manager : that 's possibility as well . marketing : that would cut the cost . project manager : so and it 's good for the design as well . so you can make uh let 's see . if you make this looks a bit like uh a cross . plus . min . user interface : but i do n't do n't know if if it 's cheaper . project manager : uh s yeah channel . user interface : so uh , project manager : yeah w user interface : we 've still got four buttons , but just um so project manager : yeah th i think they count uh the materials . user interface : you got uh not not a butt button itself , but uh on the um project manager : yeah on the chip there . yeah . user interface : yeah . on the chip you 've got still uh four uh four buttons . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's right . that 's right . user interface : so project manager : but i think because we have the advanced chip marketing : yeah . project manager : we can just count this as one button . user interface : yeah , but marketing : but , i think this really is four buttons anyhow . project manager : but no but i think yeah . maybe it is , but then it seems to me that it 's impossible to get the twelve and a half euros . also the l_c_ display , i think it 's , i think it 's too expensive for the display we use . industrial designer : uh that 's that 's a big cost . project manager : i think they uh try t industrial designer : if we leave out the display we can also save money on the chip . project manager : that 's right , but what 's the big advantage of our remote then ? marketing : only the docking station , i guess . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : which is n't the the docking station is n't even in this c s schematic . so it 's not even taken into the price . project manager : that 's extra . that 's extra . that 's right . marketing : maybe we should to a different supplier . project manager : that 's an option . marketing : yeah . project manager : poland . something . polish supplier . do n't you think we can , if we can count this as v as one button , and integrate th uh these buttons in three , then we save a lot of money as well . industrial designer : we we could save money on it . but would it make the remote more usable for elderly people ? user interface : . marketing : yeah , that 's what i 'm wondering . industrial designer : my mother ca n't even send send an s_m_s_ message . project manager : yeah . that 's a point . industrial designer : so user interface : are we gon na buy a um a remote control uh when you can uh use it ? marketing : um user interface : so um yeah . we m uh we must um stay below the um below um twelve uh fifty or ca n't uh go um industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well , since the market research indicated that older people spend their money easier , more easy , maybe it 's feasible to just put the price of the remote up a little . especially since we have those nice features . project manager : yeah but uh we have to stick to the twelve and a half euros . we do n't have any more budget to develop it . user interface : is it impossible to industrial designer : the margin will get too small . yeah . project manager : yeah . so user interface : but it is possible to make one uh for uh twelve fifty . project manager : it is . if you leave out the l_c_ display . and if you use less buttons . say or you can take the single chip . user interface : i do n't think so . marketing : it would be a be a pretty rigid one . user interface : s yeah . marketing : user interface : but , you ca n't use uh project manager : there it is . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : but then w good looking . user interface : uh , wi with n oh , with uh attractive uh o options . project manager : yeah . user interface : so uh , you can stay uh below uh twelve fifty . so project manager : i think it 's uh difficult as well , but marketing : basically becoming a choice between like either a good remote and a higher production cost , or just any other remote control . industrial designer : no remote . project manager : or we can leave out the ten buttons and take one scroll wheel for the programme numbers . then w user interface : scroll-wheel 's one . industrial designer : that 's project manager : because then we save ten buttons . user interface : no , it project manager : then we have five and one . user interface : yeah . project manager : and and see . if we have this one and we 've got the advanced w uh , we 're getting close . industrial designer : we 're getting closer . user interface : yeah . marketing : but how does scroll-wheel work here ? project manager : then you will or maybe you can um scroll . if you scroll you will see the numbers on the lcd display . until you 've got the right number , then you push it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that would bring up the price of the scroll-wheel also . integrated scroll-wheel push-button . project manager : alright . it 's got ta scroll and push . okay but then you you can push uh some other button as well . marketing : but yeah . industrial designer : you could just not scroll for a half a second . project manager : yeah . that 's right . so if you scroll to a number and then you wait a half second , then it g turns to that channel . industrial designer : so you wo n't need a button . marketing : i think that would be like the end of our usability . project manager : but it would definitely crop cost , a lot . user interface : d yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , but project manager : and we need the battery . and the regular chip is not possible ? it has to be advanced ? industrial designer : if you want to use an lcd screen you you need an advanced chip , yes . project manager : it has to be advanced . yeah . okay . and we can save a euro by a flat design . that 's an option we can user interface : ja ja . project manager : then we 're almost there . industrial designer : yeah if you v could just leave out one more button . project manager : yeah . so if we user interface : yeah , or we have to uh skip the subtitle uh button . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah but i think that 's that is a big advantage , user interface : so yeah project manager : if we 're user interface : yeah it 's a big advantage . project manager : but user interface : but um , it 's project manager : can we use ca n't we integrate the teletext and the subtitles in one button ? user interface : uh , yeah . industrial designer : i think so . yeah . project manager : if you push it three times ? marketing : well , think it 's pretty much the teletext subtitles are user interface : yeah . marketing : right now you just push the teletext button , go to page eight eight eight , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and teletext disappears . but the subtitles stay there . user interface : but if you push the teletext button twice industrial designer : what if you have to scroll to page eighty eight ? eight hundred eighty eight . marketing : i think that 's the case on most user interface : it 's uh one m uh one b uh , a few buttons . project manager : ah that 's not really that marketing : well , that could be just uh like the scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click . industrial designer : yeah . okay . marketing : but then again that would be d j just pretty much not an option for older people , who do n't even know what a scroll-wheel is . user interface : yeah . marketing : holding a remote with which they expect to have like ten buttons for the numbers one to zero . industrial designer : marketing : with only five buttons on it . and a scroll-wheel . project manager : i think if you make a good advertisement uh on television and in the in the guide , you can explain to the people how to use the scroll wheel . if you just make it real simple . because it saves it saves a lot of money . and we can keep our lcd screen , which can provide extra information . how to use the scroll wheel . how to use the other bu buttons as subtitles . marketing : true . true . project manager : and it 's good for the innovative design as well . if you would erase these . mm eraser ? and we put uh looks a bit odd maybe . marketing : that 's a pretty big scroll wheel . project manager : that is something like that . marketing : project manager : then , yeah . we 've got the scroll-wheel . one , two , three , four , five buttons , if we erase this one . and these are two buttons then . industrial designer : we could make two buttons out of that . and just um if you press the volume button you can control the volume with the scroll-wheel . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so that would save two buttons . if you do the same for the channel . project manager : yeah . that 's really a good good idea , i think . and it will make the use of the scroll wheel uh more obvious indeed . industrial designer : more obvious . project manager : so we make one for the volume , one for the channel . plus scroll . that 's right . industrial designer : so if we project manager : so we 've got one , two , three . yeah , we can leave the teletext in if we want . that 's m that 's better . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so </s>
<s> why was marketing discontent with all those changes made to buttons during the discussion about finance ? </s> marketing : well , that could be just uh like the scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click . industrial designer : yeah . okay . marketing : but then again that would be d j just pretty much not an option for older people , who do n't even know what a scroll-wheel is . user interface : yeah . marketing : holding a remote with which they expect to have like ten buttons for the numbers one to zero . industrial designer : marketing : with only five buttons on it . and a scroll-wheel . project manager : i think if you make a good advertisement uh on television and in the in the guide , you can explain to the people how to use the scroll wheel . if you just make it real simple . because it saves it saves a lot of money . and we can keep our lcd screen , which can provide extra information . how to use the scroll wheel . how to use the other bu buttons as subtitles . marketing : true . true . project manager : and it 's good for the innovative design as well . if you would erase these . mm eraser ? and we put uh looks a bit odd maybe . marketing : that 's a pretty big scroll wheel . project manager : that is something like that . marketing : project manager : then , yeah . we 've got the scroll-wheel . one , two , three , four , five buttons , if we erase this one . and these are two buttons then . industrial designer : we could make two buttons out of that . and just um if you press the volume button you can control the volume with the scroll-wheel . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so that would save two buttons . if you do the same for the channel . project manager : yeah . that 's really a good good idea , i think . and it will make the use of the scroll wheel uh more obvious indeed . industrial designer : more obvious . project manager : so we make one for the volume , one for the channel . plus scroll . that 's right . industrial designer : so if we project manager : so we 've got one , two , three . yeah , we can leave the teletext in if we want . that 's m that 's better . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so marketing : so this is five buttons . industrial designer : if we leave out all those buttons , perhaps you can go with the flat flat case . and make it smaller overall . project manager : y yeah . industrial designer : so if you put the the volume and channel buttons on the same height as the on-off button , the screen right behi under that , than the scroll button project manager : mm yeah . uh yeah , and then you can industrial designer : you get a a much smaller remote . project manager : that 's right . user interface : uh yeah . industrial designer : and it sh project manager : so we can decrease this one to four buttons . industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : right now we have five . user interface : but uh , you can make a f quite a big uh remote remote control for uh just the same price as a small one . project manager : yeah . that 's no problem . user interface : just uh you only have to pay for the double curved or single curved . it uh it 's a bit uh project manager : yeah . yeah . it 's uh it 's more the moulds in which they are being made , i think . single curved is really easy to just fill in . and cases come right out of the machine . user interface : . project manager : and single curved you have to have a different uh different machine , than a flat one . i think this is a really easy one . um , what does everybody think about a flat or a single curved design ? freek , what do you think ? marketing : well , i still think we should go for the single curve design . user interface : . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but then again , all these changes are not really okay with me . industrial designer : richard 's argument was very good . yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : but since we just have to . project manager : we have to cut costs . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah i 'm ag marketing : i 'd rather just go to the board and get us to spend eighteen dollars a a remote . project manager : ask for more money . yeah . yeah . i am agreeing with the usability . yeah . marketing : or do some market research and see what the options are . project manager : yeah . but th um i think we can then keep the single curved one . just to express our lcd screen a bit more . marketing : yeah . project manager : so people will use it more , and especially for the help functions , user interface : yeah . project manager : it will be good if we have scroll bar , scroll button . it will be necessary to have good help function , as well . so this is scroll . i think it was better to have this price list a bit earlier . before we went on to the to the whole design . marketing : yes . definitely . user interface : the th project manager : but i 'm glad we could make a bit . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's pretty different , if you saw the last one than this one . marketing : it 's pretty different . user interface : marketing : but this is not really like for the group we were making our remote . this will really require a lot of marketing to get this to sell . project manager : yeah . it will . yeah . user interface : but um </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about project evaluation . </s> project manager : no . but we can go on with the project evaluation . industrial designer : marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : let 's see . i can sit down i think . we still have fifteen minutes left , so we 're nice on schedule . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , the project process . marketing : so um , i like set up all these criteria . and evaluation of the thingy . project manager : evaluation criteria . that 's right . that was the the point i forgot . i should industrial designer : project manager : there we are . evaluation criteria . user interface : marketing : thank you . project manager : go ahead . industrial designer : project manager : we 've got five minutes i think for those criteria . marketing : five more minutes ? project manager : no we 've got fifteen minutes but marketing : okay . project manager : uh yes . what ? marketing : 'kay so i did some literature study study , and analysis of the requirements we set up earlier . project manager : uh yeah . marketing : translated it into criteria , which would be these . um , is the remote fancy ? the shape , look and feel . innovative ? what new functions are there ? uh , easy to use ? uh , learnability is a very important factor here . uh , is it functional ? are there not too many functions uh among the functions ? and are the those functions that are there , are they useful ? and the cost . the target group . is the remote really for the group we 're making it for ? and recognability . if our company is if it is easily recognisable that our company made it ? and so we 're supposed to evaluate it right now . project manager : okay . marketing : let 's see . oh i have to say this was a little hard , because the minutes of our last meeting were not here . project manager : yeah , that 's because my pen failed to upload his data . user interface : mm . yeah ? marketing : okay . project manager : i tried to marketing : interesting . project manager : but it 's uh it 's giving errors by downloading the software . marketing : so user interface : mm . 'kay . marketing : is the design fancy , on a scale of one to seven ? project manager : i think it 's fancy . yeah . six . user interface : uh six . yeah . marketing : we all go for six ? good . um , is the design innovative ? project manager : very . user interface : mm . sh marketing : i think so , with our lcd screen , docking station , scroll-buttons . project manager : subtitles , buttons . yeah . seven . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : seven ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so we 've got twenty cents for our docking station , huh ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : should be do-able . project manager : yeah . that 's right . marketing : is the design easy to use ? user interface : mm . not really . project manager : that 's a bit dodgy . marketing : well would be for us . but user interface : for old people i i project manager : i would say four . four or five between . between four or five . industrial designer : four or five . yes . user interface : yeah . four . marketing : i 'd go for four , too . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : is it functional ? industrial designer : marketing : is the design functional ? um , do we have all functions that we want to include ? user interface : n yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i think we do . do we have too many functions ? i do n't think so . it 's pretty slim . project manager : think it 's uh seven . marketing : seven . oh , and do we um take care of the biggest frustrations of the remote control ? like it getting lost and r_s_i_ influences ? industrial designer : mm , we have n't thought of that one . project manager : it was . marketing : think we do . project manager : i had them worked out . mm . they are ugly , not very functional , and getting lost . user interface : yeah . marketing : are the production costs within the preset limits ? industrial designer : marketing : well they are now . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : does the design fit the group of focus ? user interface : mm , th yeah . industrial designer : i think that 's a three . marketing : yeah . project manager : no i think with our new radio button , i think it 's uh i think it 's better . marketing : i think it does n't . user interface : yeah . uh we have to test it s but marketing : i do n't know . industrial designer : i still i think it 's too m too fancy . too too flashy . marketing : i think project manager : i think it marketing : i think a radio button is not exactly what older people expect to have a remote control . user interface : uh , yeah , true . project manager : yeah . i would give it a four . marketing : i 'm not sure . i think i 'd go for two . user interface : i go for three . so project manager : then we have to do the three . it 's the marketing : 'kay . is the company company recognisable ? project manager : yes it is . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : well , we have the logo there . project manager : yeah . marketing : so project manager : and they wan na put fashion in their products . uh in the slogan of the company . and we have the removable front cases . so , i think it 's very recognisable . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . so that will be this . i was also supposed to calculate the score , but thought we would have another private thingy after this . project manager : we 've got a calculate it . mm ? industrial designer : twendag sieven an twendag . marketing : is this like after this , are we done ? or project manager : n we 've gon na we 're going to evaluate it . marketing : we 're gon na go to our other room again . well , anyhow . these are seven factors times seven is forty something . two ? no . project manager : forty nine . marketing : nine ? uh , minus one . minus three , minus four . minus four . so that would be minus eight . forty one out of forty nine . project manager : forty one . that 's around eighty percent . marketing : okay . project manager : what is it ? marketing : guess i 'll just type that in on the bottom here . project manager : that 's eighty four percent . i think that 's a pretty nice score . user interface : hmm . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : hmm . 'kay . so that will be the evaluation . project manager : thank you . so , that brings us to the project evaluation . yep . thank you . marketing : project manager : project process . did we move through the right phases , you think ? along the process ? user interface : yeah . but it marketing : think we should have a should have had the finance thingy a lot earlier . in the design phase . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's right . so lack of information about prices . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . that 's true . marketing : yeah . definitely . project manager : okay . uh okay . satisfaction . was there room for creativity ? no ? user interface : marketing : not too much . no . project manager : it 's because of the finance sheet . yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , there w there was enough room , but the finance uh marketing : yeah , true . but project manager : the room was yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and i would 've liked to go for the younger users also . user interface : . marketing : and just to be able to access internet and get something of your own . project manager : restrictions . internet access . 'kay . leadership . was it clear what everybody had to do uh according to their roles and functions ? yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : teamwork ? did it work out ? working together ? also , you two of you with the uh last phase ? user interface : so industrial designer : yes , was okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : nice . industrial designer : the tasks are very structured , so you can just do step by step and it 's very easy . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : tasks . okay . were the means sufficient for the tasks uh we had to do ? or were they too much ? industrial designer : well , the smart-board , the d d drawing is just a pain in the ass , but the digital the digital pen is very nice . user interface : marketing : project manager : smart-board . user interface : yeah . project manager : if it wants to download its uh data . user interface : but marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : yes . yeah . user interface : uh project manager : failed download . smart-board was irritating . so you rather wanted to have a flip-over ? or something else ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : a flip-over or a more precise uh digit user interface : a flipper 's uh easier , so yeah . project manager : faster as well , i think . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . flip-over . user interface : but if you want to share uh of uh when you make um a picture like this uh on the presentation , it 's easier to uh share it with uh other people . uh so uh project manager : yeah . user interface : you can sh save it uh and uh put it on the internet , or uh uh in shared f uh folder or uh sh uh shared directory . marketing : yeah , user interface : so so marketing : i tried to open the file on my laptop , user interface : yeah ? no ? industrial designer : no . did n't work . marketing : but not possible . project manager : uh you need a smart board uh application i think . marketing : yeah . project manager : but i think you can user interface : t can uh can you export it uh like a yeah . project manager : yeah . should be possible . yeah you can export it as image . marketing : no . project manager : must yeah must be marketing : should 've done that then . project manager : so the sharing of the information was uh was okay ? user interface : . marketing : pen is here . project manager : uh , network . user interface : uh . project manager : yeah , pen is here on the table . marketing : user interface : uh , yeah . so you can uh project manager : yeah . it 's possible . user interface : it 's possible . marketing : mm . yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : that 's nice . have we found new ideas for having this kind of meetings ? or user interface : um , yeah maybe um uh when we n uh just uh give the numbers of of uh uh uh o one of uh out of s uh sev project manager : yeah . user interface : um it 's uh easier to uh to do the th things that are like that on a computer . uh , so uh just l uh like uh at u university uh project manager : yeah . so yeah . so everybody puts his own score . user interface : so marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then it mediates the score , user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : and you can get one user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's better . so that 's uh how do we call ? evaluation criteria . okay . mm , any more ideas ? or questions about the project ? or about the product ? because i think then that we get to our last sheet . are the costs within the budget ? user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . marketing : they are . industrial designer : considering we are not going to make a docking station . project manager : do we docking station . that 's a good point . user interface : . project manager : but maybe because of the docking station the price of the remote can also be a little bit higher ? marketing : yeah . project manager : uh and i think you can compensate that as well . industrial designer : perhaps . project manager : so i think that should n't be the biggest problem , because it 's very cheap to make as well . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : do we think we gon na get the twelve and a half million ? user interface : yeah . project manager : or what was it ? marketing : fifty grand . project manager : fifteen fifteen million . i think we will . if we gon na export this product . it 's innovative . marketing : yeah . project manager : especially in america . people are pretty decadent . sometimes . user interface : yeah . mm . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , still i think i mean if we 're n gon na make a scroll-button anyway it 'd be more for the younger people than for the older people . project manager : you can do more . yeah . marketing : so maybe we should just re-focus . project manager : just put it on the market for everybody . you can you can change markets where by changing the front covers . marketing : or specifically for younger people . project manager : that 's one thing you can change it with . marketing : that 's true . project manager : so you can also try to uh reach the younger people by uh putting fancy covers on on the market . just as a test . see how it works . that 's i think a good advantage . marketing : yeah , i think then it would be way more uh popular with younger people than it is , than would be with older people . even if it were their covers . project manager : yeah . uh , uh then i think we can have our little celebration , right now . marketing : but user interface : project manager : that 's it . marketing : party party . project manager : yeah . i think we still have to fit in one more questionnaire . i think . user interface : where 's the champagne ? marketing : 'kay . project manager : i do n't know . i did n't get a message from the from ending of the user interface : uh , i believe y uh project manager : oh i think i have one now . marketing : oh you did . project manager : five more minutes ? oh that 's nice . user interface : okay . project manager : then we still have some questions . if somebody has some questions they can ask them now . or we can put these in the project folder as well . maybe that 's marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : marketing : project manager : export as picture , i think . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : hmm . this is another network , i guess . does somebody see the project folder ? marketing : user interface : project manager : i do n't . hmm . my documents . user interface : uh maybe uh they will save it . so uh project manager : yeah , i 'll just put it in my documents </s>
<s> what specific criteria did marketing bring forward for product evaluation ? </s> marketing : 'kay so i did some literature study study , and analysis of the requirements we set up earlier . project manager : uh yeah . marketing : translated it into criteria , which would be these . um , is the remote fancy ? the shape , look and feel . innovative ? what new functions are there ? uh , easy to use ? uh , learnability is a very important factor here . uh , is it functional ? are there not too many functions uh among the functions ? and are the those functions that are there , are they useful ? and the cost . the target group . is the remote really for the group we 're making it for ? and recognability . if our company is if it is easily recognisable that our company made it ? and so we 're supposed to evaluate it right now . project manager : okay . marketing : let 's see . oh i have to say this was a little hard , because the minutes of our last meeting were not here . project manager : yeah , that 's because my pen failed to upload his data . user interface : mm . yeah ? marketing : okay . project manager : i tried to marketing : interesting . project manager : but it 's uh it 's giving errors by downloading the software . marketing : so user interface : mm . 'kay . marketing : is the design fancy , on a scale of one to seven ? project manager : i think it 's fancy . yeah . six . user interface : uh six . yeah . marketing : we all go for six ? good . um , is the design innovative ? project manager : very . user interface : mm . sh marketing : i think so , with our lcd screen , docking station , scroll-buttons . project manager : subtitles , buttons . yeah . seven . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : seven ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so we 've got twenty cents for our docking station , huh ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : should be do-able . project manager : yeah . that 's right . marketing : is the design easy to use ? user interface : mm . not really . project manager : that 's a bit dodgy . marketing : well would be for us . but user interface : for old people i i project manager : i would say four . four or five between . between four or five . industrial designer : four or five . yes . user interface : yeah . four . marketing : i 'd go for four , too . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : is it functional ? industrial designer : marketing : is the design functional ? um , do we have all functions that we want to include ? user interface : n yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i think we do . do we have too many functions ? i do n't think so . it 's pretty slim . project manager : think it 's uh seven . marketing : seven . oh , and do we um take care of the biggest frustrations of the remote control ? like it getting lost and r_s_i_ influences ? industrial designer : mm , we have n't thought of that one . project manager : it was . marketing : think we do . project manager : i had them worked out . mm . they are ugly , not very functional , and getting lost . user interface : yeah . marketing : are the production costs within the preset limits ? industrial designer : marketing : well they are now . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : does the design fit the group of focus ? user interface : mm , th yeah . industrial designer : i think that 's a three . marketing : yeah . project manager : no i think with our new radio button , i think it 's uh i think it 's better . marketing : i think it does n't . user interface : yeah . uh we have to test it s but marketing : i do n't know . industrial designer : i still i think it 's too m too fancy . too too flashy . marketing : i think project manager : i think it marketing : i think a radio button is not exactly what older people expect to have a remote control . user interface : uh , yeah , true . project manager : yeah . i would give it a four . marketing : i 'm not sure . i think i 'd go for two . user interface : i go for three . so project manager : then we have to do the three . it 's the marketing : 'kay . is the company company recognisable ? project manager : yes it is . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : well , we have the logo there . project manager : yeah . marketing : so project manager : and they wan na put fashion in their products . uh in the slogan of the company . and we have the removable front cases . so , i think it 's very recognisable . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> during process evaluation , why did not marketing agree that the meeting process was moving along the right phases ? </s> user interface : hmm . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : hmm . 'kay . so that will be the evaluation . project manager : thank you . so , that brings us to the project evaluation . yep . thank you . marketing : project manager : project process . did we move through the right phases , you think ? along the process ? user interface : yeah . but it marketing : think we should have a should have had the finance thingy a lot earlier . in the design phase . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's right . so lack of information about prices . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . that 's true . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> user interface : here we go again . industrial designer : my mouse is not working anymore . user interface : oh . industrial designer : he 's uh user interface : okay . industrial designer : when i put it in , is is going to beep beep beep . marketing : oh , i got a nice little screen here over here . user interface : marketing : i got like this big black border uh on every side . industrial designer : project manager : okay . user interface : mm , okay . project manager : everybody ready ? marketing : i 'll i 'll fix it . user interface : yeah , it 's okay . project manager : welcome at the functional design meeting , again presented by maarten . marketing : yeah , whatever . user interface : marketing : project manager : uh this is the agenda , the opening . uh , we 've got three presentations . and i 'm gon na show you some of the new projects requirements that were sent to me . and we 're gon na make a decision on the remote control functions . we have uh forty minutes . oh , well this is the the closing already . user interface : project manager : so uh well we start off with the th the first presentation then . uh , i think um in uh we have to do it in uh in right order . user interface : okay . project manager : maybe the marketing : i do n't know what the right order is . so project manager : well , it oh that . it wo n't does n't maybe we should start with the the technical functions . industrial designer : okay , project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : how can i get this on the whiteboard ? project manager : well it 's you dumped the file in the uh in the sh in the project document folder . user interface : in project . industrial designer : okay , i 've done that . project manager : you 've already done that ? user interface : no can that open . project manager : well let 's close this one . we 'll just uh open a new one . user interface : open it there . project manager : uh , well . yes . uh-oh . new thing . oh yeah , uh i have to say something . uh , due to some uh technical problems i have n't uh digitized the last uh the meeting minutes . but i 'll uh make sure that uh happens next time . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . about the get project manager : and i 'll get this one uh in digital uh form too . industrial designer : 'kay , we 're going to um uh talk about working design . um , the method of the remote control is uh electrical energy , it activates a chip uh in the remote . it 's an electrical circuit which compose uh messages in the form of uh uh infrared signals to control the television . mm , it 's a nowadays very uh known , a known uh uh technology . um , the known technology can make a cost very low . uh , it 's a wild uh a wide sale uh of uh remote controls in the world . and and the components are very uh very cheap . um , uh , diodes , uh bat batteries and uh uh led lights , they 're needed and they 're uh everywhere available . uh , again , it 's a fair price . it 's a common uh technology uh , like i told um uh , the circuit board , it 's the most um important uh um part of the remote control . uh , we can use for that uh fibreglass with copper wires , it 's it is uh can be made as fast as printing paper . it 's uh it 's all very uh project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , they 're making it uh all the time . uh , project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it 's not uh very specialised uh technology . i have n't come to here , but um i 've got uh some uh images of uh remote controls . they were not uh very uh trendy or just uh just a remote control like everyone knows . so i do n't know uh why i should put it here . uh project manager : okay . but it 's the technical side of the remote control . user interface : industrial designer : yes , but uh i uh have n't made it because uh of the time . project manager : oh . okay . well , we 'll we 'll have to skip that part then . industrial designer : what ? user interface : okay . project manager : but you do n't think it 's a problem um to design uh the technical part of the remote control ? it 's gon na be easy ? industrial designer : no . yes . project manager : okay . user interface : but nothing restricted for user interface ? project manager : yeah . m user interface : with technical industrial designer : um , no , it 's uh it 's just a part of uh a known technology , yeah . user interface : i do n't know . project manager : okay . user interface : 'kay . industrial designer : remote control is nothing special nowadays . project manager : r regardless of what type of functions we want to implement . does n't really matter . user interface : okay . industrial designer : um user interface : but i kind of uh industrial designer : i do n't think so , project manager : okay . yeah , okay . industrial designer : because of the all the televisions uh there are a few maybe a couple of televisions with the new functions , user interface : yes . uh project manager : okay . industrial designer : but is it useful to put them on a on a standard uh remote ? project manager : well , we 'll see . we 'll see later on . user interface : well , the technical functions . um , well i do n't know if you got the same uh pictures as i got , but uh i got these two , and i think they 're we have to focus uh on uh the uh one hand the expert view or the novice user . th i think it 's it 's very much uh depending on the user requirements , i do n't s uh know who 's doing t project manager : well , uh will there be some uh user requirements later on ? the ones i i 've uh received from the account manager . user interface : yeah , but it i think that 's very important to watch uh what kind of functions there we want to uh put in a remote control . project manager : yeah . well , we 'll keep this in mind , and then discuss it later on . user interface : yeah , well y we can put functions in it when uh yeah , when we uh get the user requirements uh and we can update it . project manager : uh-huh . okay , but this real this uh big d uh distinction between this type of remote . we should we should choose one uh we should not compromise but uh really choose for uh expert viewer or novice v marketing : yes , i agree . yeah . project manager : yeah ? well , what that 's what you want trying to say . user interface : well , yeah w if you want try a a a huge market , if you want to reach a huge market , uh like elderly people and we have to choose for novice user . project manager : okay . okay . user interface : but i do n't know . it 's it 's really um depending on how how how far the the the remote controls are already in n um in use . project manager : yeah , well some of these uh , yeah . well , some of that will yeah , but i but it will be more clear when we come to the uh u uh some of the new requirements . user interface : yeah , probably , yeah . project manager : so user interface : uh well , there are l at least uh basic functions , uh like just th the channels uh one till nine , uh on and off switch , which must be clear with a red button or something like that . um , most standard uh have volume , of course , and a mute function , and , of course , the next and previous channel . i think that 's just basic what we need . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and from that on we can user requirements what we need more . uh yeah , i just um um i thought joost was looking at the trendy the trends in the markets , and i do n't know if there uh are any um uh if you put more functions , more buttons , maybe it 's com becoming less trendy or something like that . m you can just you can k marketing : i have n't really found a conclusion like that . user interface : you can keep it in mind that . marketing : yeah . user interface : i do n't know . uh , i th i thought the the with less buttons you can make a more trendier uh marketing : design . user interface : yeah , more trendier design , i think . i think . marketing : sounds interesting . project manager : user interface : yeah ? marketing : user interface : uh , well , that 's all i have to say , i think . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah , that was it . marketing : alright . project manager : well , then the marketing expert can uh tell us something about the current market . marketing : yes . user interface : . marketing : yeah . it 's alright . um alright , i 've done some research for functional requirements . um yes . the working method um there were hundred uh uh w h one hundred people , uh how do you say uh , f watched using remote controls in the usability lab and they also uh filled out a questionnaire uh with a few questions . uh , i 've lined them up here . uh , ask whether um common remote control looks good or not , about willingness to spend money on remote control , about zapping behaviour , and uh and stuff like that . i uh have found some interesting things . we do we do got a market . um , three out of four people claim m uh to find remote controls ugly . so if we make a trendy design , we sure have seventy fi seventy five percent of the market , which you can reach . um , three out of four users uh zaps a lot , as i uh quoted here from the uh results . zap buttons are used one hundred and sixty eight times per hour . that 's quite a lot . um , relevant options are , of course , power buttons . although , only used once per hour . uh , channel selection , volume and buttons for text , and the more um , yeah , other functions , like audio settings , video settings , sound settings are not said to be very important and uh very much used . furthermore , fifty percent says uh they only use ten percent of the buttons on a remote control . that does n't say we got we can leave ninety percent off . but it sure um says we should n't make it too uh complicated . fifty percent also claims uh to have lost a remote control very often in the room . and um an important thing here , the most important customers uh , which is over seventy percent of our market , is in the age range of thirty six to sixty five years old . and uh elderly people , our market , are less interested in uh nice features , but more willingly to spend more money on remote controls . so , what i was thinking oh , wrong side . we should n't implement too much features on uh on our remote control , because elderly people will get th lost . group features for a higher usability , uh what i was claiming in the previous meeting . um , all the settings , about audio settings , video settings and channel settings , which are not very often used , we could group them uh on one button and make them accessible uh in one menu button or whatever , because they are used very rarely and well , it uh there are a lot of options there , so we can really make uh yeah , how do you say , we can spare at buttons over there . project manager : okay . marketing : and um , if you want to implement v_c_r_ and d_v_d_ options , group them in the button , not too uh yeah . small buttons , so they wo n't be very um , how do you say project manager : visually presents . marketing : yes , wo n't be very present , thank you . and a trendy look , well uh , although seventy percent of the market is uh consists of elderly people uh who do n't really care for trendy looks or whatever , i guess it can do no harm to make it trendy for the other thirty percent . that was kind of what i found . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : well , then we i 'm gon na show you some of the new project requirements and then we gon na discuss on uh what features we find important . marketing : yes . project manager : uh , well some of the uh new requirements make some of your findings quite uh irrelevant , i think . marketing : project manager : because um uh s decided to put they have decide to put two additional requirements forward . well , now i see four . marketing : two ? project manager : that 's kinda strange . well , they say tele teletext becomes outdated since the popularity of the internet . well , i think that may be so , but well , we ca n't just leave the teletext button off . user interface : well project manager : it 's impossible , i think . user interface : no way . marketing : no uh , i agree , i agree . project manager : so the compromise we could make is just to make one teletext button , you know , like on and off , and do n't make a lot of special put a lot of special features on it to make it transparent or marketing : not too much , no . project manager : you know , it 's just you want you want to be able to make use of teletext , but not to play with it that much . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we have to think of that . the remote control should only be used for television . otherwise , the project becomes more complex , which endangers the time t t ma uh the time to market . so maybe we should leave all d_v_d_ and v_c_r_ related features off completely . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : i do n't know . i think that uh that 's what they 're trying to say . marketing : project manager : uh , our current customers are within the age group of forty plus . new products should reach a new market with customers that are younger than forty . so you uh talked about the elderly who were willing to spend more on a remote control and who were interested . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but , well , they 're not relevant because we are aiming at a younger marketing : i do n't really agree actually , to be honest . it 's a very small market which we will approach then if we uh want to reach customers younger than forty . it 's only like thirty percent of the total market . project manager : yeah , but it is it 's is a dif it 's a fact that the th th that bigger market you 're talking about , we already cover that . marketing : mayb yeah ? project manager : our company already sells remote control to the older people , but we we also want , you know , a new customer group . that 's the one we have n't covered yet . so i think that 's what the problem is . we have n't got remote controls for uh marketing : okay . project manager : well i think , yeah . marketing : maybe maybe we can compromise a little bit . project manager : yeah , i think so . maybe if it 's marketing : not too much then , bu alright . project manager : no no , but i think we have to just keep in mind what the older age group wants . so maybe we can make a remote control that 's primarily interesting for the younger group , but is n't that bad for an older person either . uh , our corporate image sh should stay recognisable in our products . our product 's corporate colour and slogan must be implemented in the new design . okay , something else nice to know . user interface : but what 's our slogan ? project manager : sorry ? yeah , you will have to look that up . user interface : the slogan uh marketing : yeah , i 'll have a look . project manager : i think it 's something about the user interface : puts fashion in electronics . marketing : we put the fashion in electronics . project manager : oh , okay . i thought it w might be , let 's make things better or something , but user interface : sense simplicity . marketing : sense and simplicity . project manager : okay well , let 's go back to the the agenda . so we 've now had to the three presentations . we know about the new project requirements . that means we can uh well d yeah , discuss on the remote control functions . well , if i can uh make a start , i think it 's becoming more clear what kind of remote control it 's gon na be , and i already talked about the maybe you have a f familiar with the rem remote control that has the the can opener underneath it . i think we 're we 're looking for some marketing : project manager : yeah , we we 're looking for a really simple remote control with only basic tv functions . y well , that user interface : yeah . marketing : well , to be honest , if um our uh aim group is uh till forty , not older than forty , maybe that 's not very uh yeah , we do n't really need to have a simple remote control . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : i think we can implement more functions then , because um basically uh the younger people are more able to adapt to new technology user interface : yeah , but wha project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : and therefore will be a more project manager : m yeah , that 's why um well a lot of um the use the requirements the the account manager sent me , i think they are are c are contradicting each other , user interface : but project manager : because they want a simpler design , and no uh other uh s functions than just tv , but they s do aim at a younger marketing : yes . project manager : well , ma user interface : yeah , but you sai you said that that a lot of functions are n't used . marketing : yeah . user interface : so why should j we put this function in ? marketing : well , i think user interface : i think more i think uh people younger people are more looking for just a trendy look than uh more functions . industrial designer : project manager : but i think uh you we can make some discuss uh distinctions in uh what kin in the , know , th th in functions you have y well you have different kind of uh equipment in your room , like a t tv and a d_v_d_ player . you can uh , know , you you can make very d you can put very detailed functions regarding the tv set on your remote control uh with the with uh the , you know , audio settings and uh v uh screen settings . we do n't want that . i think that was that became clear . we do n't want . but w maybe we should put some func uh , i know that the younger people will most likely have a d_v_d_ player they want to , you know , they want to uh marketing : yeah , control . user interface : yeah , but uh you said project manager : control , remotely . user interface : yeah , d yeah , but th the functions are not in the remote control we 're making . marketing : project manager : no , yeah , th th the user requirements of the the the new project requirements told us not to user interface : it 's n yeah . project manager : but maybe w yeah . i think we maybe should user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , well we should uh put some functions for other maybe for other equipment on it . but just the basic functions . maybe like rewind and wind , or n what d what do you guys think ? industrial designer : but you can put them under the same button . marketing : not much more than that . project manager : yeah , if as far as possible . marketing : yep . or we can u u we could put 'em behind the flip-flap or whatever . project manager : but what do you think ? do th should we implement features that uh uh or functions that to control other devices ? no , you do n't think so ? marketing : user interface : no , new requirements say no . project manager : yeah , the new requirements say so . user interface : so industrial designer : but you can put a play and stop and and rewind . project manager : well , maybe it 's marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe there there there is something th m most of the time these functions do n't support the particular device as well as their their own remote control . user interface : yeah , but project manager : you know , a lot of d_v_d_ players have some tricky settings with industrial designer : yes , but we user interface : i i if it 's too simple uh th they wo n't use the remote control , they use their own th th with lot more functions . marketing : y yes . project manager : yep , exactly . that 's that 's wha marketing : but but for for example , v_c_r_ , that 's better example in this case . i think on a remote control for television you do n't need to be able to programme uh the v_c_r_ to start recording at three p_m_ or whatever , project manager : no no , you do n't no no , you do n't need it . no , no . user interface : no , no . exactly . marketing : just play , stop , rewind and uh fast forward . project manager : okay , but we have to think uh w we have to think d_v_d_ i th uh , i guess , marketing : yeah , i know , but uh project manager : so um but uh from my experience it 's kinda a lot of d_v_d_ players , you know , like forwarding , goes differently . uh , you get two speed or eight speed or sixteen speed . it 's c sometimes a bit difficult . user interface : mm , yeah . project manager : maybe if we just leave the d_v_d_ functional m uh well , i was thinking about putting it in , but concerning the project requirements and what you just said , i think we m should focus on the tv then . marketing : yes . user interface : yeah , but just keep it simple and look more at th project manager : and uh and it 's just an uh a complimentary remote and not a universal one . if you want to keep it simple , you can make a universal remote . user interface : no . it 's only for television . so project manager : okay . it 's just a s it it should be something that is like a gadget on your coffee table , industrial designer : yes , but there are there are project manager : and it 's just for when you you you jump on the couch , you pick up the the the nice remote , the simple one , just to put on the television , nothing more . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , nothing more . exactly . project manager : okay . marketing : alright . project manager : um , but what televis industrial designer : but how wi how will you be able to handle a whole market ? there are uh a dozen of uh dozens of of remote controls that have project manager : yeah , we we 'll make w this one trendy . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : and simple . user interface : the user interface is easy . project manager : well , we we will come to that , but ju first on the on the functions . so we should put uh zap buttons on it . um , also numbers , to uh to go to the specific channels . user interface : and the basic yeah , basic functions , yeah . marketing : yes , definitely , yeah . user interface : it 's too much integrated in the other . project manager : okay , a t a teletext button should be there . but just one big teletext button , on and off . user interface : yeah . project manager : probably . marketing : yeah , and maybe two or three other options , but not nothing more than that . i think stop function is very useful . if you have a uh a page which consists of more pages , and you are not a very quick reader , project manager : oh , okay . marketing : then i think it 's very irritating if the next page shows up , but project manager : yeah , but uh i think that becomes too difficult , it 's not a very common function and people will have to read up on their remote then . marketing : well , i use it very regularly , the action . i re i use it quite often . project manager : yeah , yeah , but maybe you s yeah yeah , maybe y you do , but i 've never heard of it in the first place . and user interface : will you look marketing : industrial designer : project manager : we have to well t yeah , and t and teletext is becoming outdated . user interface : look at the market . project manager : we just want to see what programmes are on and what time it is probably . yeah . i do n't know . i think that that 's kin getting too complex for our remote . user interface : well project manager : i do n't know what you th guys think . marketing : might be . might be . user interface : yeah , i uh , it 's sunday i always use it for the uh yeah , for the soccer uh project manager : yeah , but do you like to have a such a s stop button ? or do you think it uh i think it 's a kind of uh uh very rare and special function . user interface : well , uh when you uh uh when you look uh for example um , a couple of weeks ago i looked at the for the flights , and there are a lot of flights in one page , so if if th project manager : yeah . okay , it goes yeah , but that 's kind of stuff we should do on the internet right now . that 's why it was uh said in the in the use in the r new requirements . industrial designer : yes , but you could put user interface : yeah , but industrial designer : on the z on the zap buttons you can put it to uh to uh access all the same pages . project manager : well yeah uh , industrial designer : if you have seven pages , you can go up and down . project manager : lots of new televisions can store pages , you know , and then you can just skip manually through them using i think we should just put one teletext button on it . user interface : true . project manager : then we meet uh the new requirements . we also meet the other thin y you sh you just re we have to choose for the the simple design , i guess . user interface : a simple yeah . project manager : okay . um , well , what functions do we have to decide on ? or do we uh i dunno if we have t stif specifically name all the functions we n we want . we have the zap and uh the volume . should we do m make them very big ? the the the zap button . d d marketing : i think the plus and the minus button should be uh quite present , project manager : th that 's that 's that 's considered to be trendy also . user interface : but trendy , yeah . project manager : or maybe you should place them on a uh , in a special way ? user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : maybe we can make uh a kind of a joystick . project manager : yeah , something or uh somethin special way to to zap through the it has to s it has to be yeah , and quick . you have to use it very quickly . user interface : original . it was uh true . marketing : if you grab the remote , your hands should be on top of the plus . project manager : yeah , and it the buttons should make it um possible to to zap through your channels in a rapid at a rapid pace . oh , what should we decide on then ? i think in a in a case of this simple remote control , the technical aspects which uh were n't worked out already , but it w should n't be a problem then . industrial designer : but user interface : yeah . industrial designer : no , it 's o just signals uh and the television d uh does the rest . user interface : maybe uh project manager : no , okay , but we do n't have to uh , when we do n't want to uh control other devices , i think it makes it even more simple . user interface : uh maybe we uh uh the batteries maybe . if you use large batteries or small batter batteries . project manager : i think industrial designer : the most standard batteries . project manager : i think that we should use uh d user interface : yeah ? marketing : i think double a_ . project manager : yeah , not not uh the b the watch kind th the most uh well , it has to be simple , and i wi user interface : yeah . marketing : the most ordinary uh batteries . project manager : which are most likely to be found somewhere in the house , you know . user interface : okay . project manager : oh . how much time do we ha we have left uh ? m m m more than thirty minutes ? marketing : i think about twenty minutes . project manager : uh ten twenty minutes . well , uh these these should n't user interface : early break . industrial designer : but i in a way we have to be uh uh special . project manager : yeah . yeah , okay . but that 's that 's do you uh have you have you think about tha thought about that ? how we can what the extra touch can be . do you suggest design or the shape or some gadget f f kind of feature or industrial designer : maybe th m project manager : well , it was something about how we lose them . maybe it should be a remote control when you you clap you hands it makes some noise or some gadget kind of thing . marketing : i think that 's n that 's more for a for an age range or uh ten to twelve or whatever . user interface : to find him . that 's maybe yeah . project manager : yeah . i do n't know . i do n't know . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : nah , um a lot of people like to have such kind kind of kind of gay kind of things . it w it w should be like a birthday present or something that you give someone , and it is i has something nice . marketing : yeah , yeah , that 's good one , yep . project manager : or maybe it w should have a big uh light that can flash or something on it , user interface : yeah . project manager : or maybe it should or an or the like the the can opener . maybe it contains some feature that you do n't normally link to a remote control . i think it 's very impor because we 're gon na make such a basic remote control , we have to do something to make it special . user interface : yeah . project manager : it 's gon na cost twenty five euros . marketing : ye i think the can opener i is a brilliant idea actually , because television and beer is not a rare combination . project manager : yeah , but the well , it 's already been done . user interface : yeah , but that 's yeah . project manager : nah . yeah , that 's true . but and i think it 's gon na be uh very uh it has to be sturdy or something , so maybe with with bouncing pads so that you can just throw it on the floor or something . it has to be used something special , user interface : yeah . project manager : and you really it has to , you know y not s people , when they buy it , they have to think , well this one lasts for a long time . we 're really gon na use them . not some thing you you throw away next week , you know . marketing : no , that 's true . project manager : so maybe uh that 's i i think that 's when uh when we decide on these type of functions , know , basic functions , uh it 's very important to find something like this . so there 's a very important task for you . and maybe we can all think about it . user interface : be original , yeah . project manager : uh , also for you maybe , when t you it 's very nice when you can be entra when you can be trendy , and and uh and al as in a friend use friendly as well , you know . user interface : mm-hmm . and use friendly , yeah . project manager : so big buttons , flashy design , and maybe some kind of gadget kind of thing . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : project manager : uh-huh . user interface : must brain-storm . marketing : yeah , a swapable front or whatever . project manager : yeah , or just different colours would be uh i do n't know if people also wan na spend more money on fronts for their uh remote control . user interface : well industrial designer : for the remote control . project manager : it could be be yeah , you never know , but user interface : why not ? marketing : yeah . user interface : more money for us . marketing : project manager : but it and i think we have to make it quite big . user interface : yeah . quite big . yeah , you think ? project manager : yeah , marketing : yes , definitely , definitely . project manager : people industrial designer : that 's to be uh a formed for your hand . project manager : so , and and also because uh it is expensive . if you want it to be something , you know , it 's ha does n't have much functions marketing : project manager : want to be you do n't want to get it l make it marketing : yes , it it it should be f be visible nearly anywhere in the room . as i uh as i said during my presentation , fifty percent uh o project manager : mm-hmm . and shou and should ni look nice when you put it on a table . i i think you m might wan na put it uh user interface : a standard or something . project manager : yeah , that it it it it stands up . yeah , you have to put it on its so it 's like a vase or uh something you put on a table . marketing : yeah . a face ? project manager : no no , put stuff inside it . but , it 's like like a statue or something marketing : or uh yeah , yeah . yeah . user interface : industrial designer : more like a joystick then . marketing : yeah , yeah , i see what you mean , yep . user interface : it 's like you have uh four phones . something like that . project manager : yeah yeah , but yeah , but you also can put it somewhere near the window in marketing : if you do that , but i do n't know if that 's possible within the production cost of twelve and a half euros . project manager : that it 's it 's fashionable . user interface : project manager : i i do n't marketing : i in in the base we could like make uh a button , and if you push it , the remote control itself s makes noise . project manager : oh , yeah . marketing : that 's probably stupid , but uh as i found here uh , fifty percent , was it fifty ? industrial designer : but that 's that 's fun for the first time , and then the second marketing : uh fifty percent fifty percent often loses remote control . project manager : yeah , but but when you when it gets lost , how can you press the button to make it marketing : no uh , of the base the the the the the the the thing you put it in . project manager : oh , okay . user interface : on the television . project manager : uh , that 's kind of nice . user interface : oh , like this . marketing : if an a button in in that uh user interface : project manager : and then also you do n't even need batteries , because you can make it uh chargeable . industrial designer : or you can user interface : a char chargeable . yeah . marketing : yeah , you can ma make rechargeable one , yeah . why not . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , that w yeah , but yeah , the pro no , well i think that it might be t p well , nee but we do n't yeah . user interface : why not . project manager : maybe you , but we do n't know much about production cost , but when you you can imagine that when you spend twenty five euros on a remote control and it 's a basic remote control , then the then the money there must be money to spend on that kind of st you know , rechargeable units . industrial designer : with recharger . user interface : marketing : it should only cost twelve and a half euros , of course . aye ? project manager : yeah , but we would d ma we 'd do it in taiwan and so , it 's not gon na be that expen user interface : production . marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : uh i i think it 's a great idea . user interface : it should be possible . i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . project manager : s some kind of be i 've never seen that before , and you make it uh um be uh , you see it with uh the mo the mouses nowadays . user interface : to make a base or something ? marketing : yes . yes , definitely . yeah . industrial designer : yes , but is that handy ? project manager : well , i well it 's really ch you can recharge it , so you ha never have the battery problem . that 's one . user interface : it 's it 's it 's it 's project manager : and uh you can always find your remote control up user interface : it 's not the purpose to be handy , it 's industrial designer : but but remote controls remote controls nowadays can can last uh two years , three years , with with t two batteries . project manager : uh , okay . well , maybe yeah , you could when that 's when it 's too costly , you could probably skip the recharger , industrial designer : and then you project manager : but you will you do need uh also an uh , also you would need a battery in the the base unit as well , you know . does it makes it kinda industrial designer : yes . or marketing : well y you you could connect that to two hundred to twenty volts , of course . user interface : mm . yeah , but that 's not it 's ugly , i think . project manager : yeah , yeah . okay . yeah . marketing : i do n't know . project manager : yeah , but then it 's very easy to make it also a rechargeab i do n't think that is gon na cost much to make it also a recharge function in it . marketing : on the other hand , if you do n't do it , we can also make a nice bay . i mean , it looks trendy and still still put a bleep function in it , project manager : yeah . marketing : but um i think the bay is definitely uh project manager : i think it 's a good idea . and make it , you know , we we um well , we uh it 's it is n't a t a most uh costly uh remote control . we can save on the on the functions . we just put some simple button in , make it big and sturdy , nothing more , and just make s sure there 's some noise that it can make , or probably some kind of cheap light thing around it or that it uh that it lights up , marketing : sure , why not . yep . project manager : it 's also nice . and if you put it away , i think it 's uh w we have to we uh that 's uh marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's not a easy market . user interface : yeah . project manager : we have to something special . and for twenty five euros people want something remote c special from your mote control , marketing : yeah . user interface : true . project manager : and we ca n't deliver that in r with uh regards to the functions , user interface : yeah . marketing : definitely . project manager : because we are n't gon na put marketing : with eye candy , ear candy , whatever . yeah , definitely . project manager : yeah . and then uh when make it , you know , nice looking shape and this and then you also you got the stand-up thing . yeah . i think i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , it must be must be a gadget to have . project manager : yeah . marketing : definitely , yeah . project manager : oh , if it let 's well , we will see what 's possible concerning the the costs , and if it 's possible we 'll do that . and we even try to save up on other stuff to make sure we can do such a thing . user interface : yeah . project manager : and the first thing we the most likeable thing to to n to skip is then probably the recharge function or something . if that 's too expensive , we wo n't do that . user interface : yeah , we c project manager : but it would be nice . marketing : it would be nice , yes . project manager : it 's the idea . i know that batteries last long nowadays . and and what people just think about , well , i 'll never have to buy any r batteries again , so y b because it 's very annoying when your battery is empty . and you know then when you have n't batteries around , and probably for two weeks , your remo i 've experienced that that marketing : most televisions break down before the battery pack is empty , so yes . project manager : yeah , okay . so , easy functions . well , we will we will i think we 'll work that out , zapping , numbers on it , bi user interface : or just give a beep when the battery 's out or uh down . project manager : yeah . but it 's also annoying . marketing : yeah , why not . user interface : project manager : 'cause as long as it stays as it ke keeps working , you 're not very motivated to do something about it . user interface : yeah . true . project manager : then it beeps all the time and . marketing : no , that 's true . project manager : you do n't want to have ever have those problems , and you wo n't have if if you have the rechargeable . and you do n't have to use the unit , you can also put it on the side if people do n't like it . uh , i i in the in the ma marketing : why not . industrial designer : but you pay for it . project manager : yeah , but it w i mean , if if they pay for it because they think , oh , that 's a great idea , i 'm gon na use it . and when it , you know , when time goes by and they think , well , i 'll never put him in the recharger , i think last long enough , then they put it on side and they can use it now and then . then when they look get m i i i know for sure that everybody who buys this remote control , within a couple of months of they will be in the situation that they they 're seeking for the remote control , they wan na see something quick and uh just push the button and th uh , user interface : yeah . project manager : i think it 's brilliant . marketing : bleep bleep bleep , oh there it is , yeah . yeah . project manager : yeah , i 've never it 's so simple , but i 've never seen it . user interface : yeah . project manager : m maybe we should really do this . user interface : and you can leave it just there . marketing : no . nearly . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay now , well , how much time have we got left ? these clocks are n't uh synched . user interface : yes . marketing : project manager : oh , now i 've put uh well , it is twenty p user interface : yeah , i 'll project manager : okay , so we have ten minutes or something ? marketing : something like that , yeah . project manager : yeah , but we 're uh we 're done . i think . user interface : uh fifteen minutes . project manager : we 've decided on the functions . well , there is some oh . there is a closing sheet . we have lunch break , and then we have thirty minutes of individual work . user interface : project manager : oh okay , i 'll make sure i 'll i had some problems with uh the digitising the the first minutes , the the s the next minutes wo n't be a problem , but i 'll try to make sure the first one will be in the folder too , but maybe it wo n't work , but you 'll see . i think these are more important than the first ones , so marketing : we 'll see . user interface : can you make an uh uh a part of f folder for the minutes maybe ? project manager : . user interface : that not not everything in one one uh folder . marketing : maarten , five minutes . project manager : oh , five minutes . yeah , because uh i i d i did uh the first minutes i did were were were a bit scratchy , you know . then i did a s second one with a nicer layout , which i could uh , know , use for the other ones well , but uh i d think uh i forgot to do put done under the first one , and when you go write a second uh it 's get it 's not working when you try to write second uh paper or something . user interface : yeah . maybe . marketing : no , that 's true uh , yeah . project manager : and then you you had to overwrite it or someth i do n't know . becau i d uh , it was not my uh pen . marketing : should we by the way draw um project manager : this kind of looks you like . marketing : on our nice whiteboard , um a little uh idea of project manager : of the shape . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , probably , it would be nice . user interface : or the sh marketing : i dunno . has anyone got um a little bit detailed ideas about the shape ? user interface : do you get an idea of the shape ? marketing : i do n't , for one . industrial designer : maybe like this pen . marketing : a bit bigger i guess , but project manager : no , bigger . user interface : a little bit bigger , yeah but marketing : the shape is nice , it 's um something different , and we want we want that . industrial designer : it has to feel nice in your hand . project manager : well , i i i have to say , i have this uh can opening remote control in my head most of all , marketing : yeah . user interface : project manager : or i think some maybe we should no , that will be too costly . user interface : oh , uh look uh look at the pictures . project manager : we shou we could also , that was a would also be an idea , but i do n't think it i do n't know if it exists already , you should like make alessi or something design it . marketing : okay , yeah . project manager : that would also be nice . but that 's gon na then you c then you do n't marketing : yeah , but twelve and a half euros ? uh project manager : yeah , but then you do n't have t yeah it that 's not something i that 's in the production cost a one it 's a one time , you know s was it 's a single cost . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , m but but then you can nah , i do n't thin i think that it would be more expensive , because i 've bought the alessi stuff more often and even small pencil holders or something are more expensive . marketing : yeah , that 's true . project manager : would be a nice idea though . i do n't know . i think it uh has to be a r it has to have round forms or something . like something like that or so or so marketing : something like that is very ergonomic . project manager : and on th and then uh s a base unit underneath it . it 's also round . marketing : so project manager : put it in there uh wire on it . marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe uh , i do n't know , some some lights , a big but well . user interface : yeah , flash lights at the side . at the side , or something like that . project manager : volume and programme , yeah . marketing : yes , volume and programme should be there i guess , because you hands wi uh y your hands will be in the smaller part . project manager : and some of the extra funct some of the extra functions over here . numbers . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , and the numbers on top , i guess . user interface : yeah . project manager : and and lights ? how we 're g well , maybe uh s a ring of no , no , you have to maybe on the side of it . marketing : maybe ro roun rounds user interface : yeah , side of it . marketing : uh uh l sorry . project manager : along the side uh strip of yeah . user interface : just two leds or something on the side . yeah . marketing : maybe lights also around the volume and the p the plus minus programme buttons . project manager : yeah , but i also meant the the blinking li w you know , the ones that also blink when you try to uh uh locate your remote . marketing : oh . okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : well , theys have to be user interface : well , uh probably at the side . you know look at the front , but project manager : yeah . yeah , yeah . exactly . when you you see it from the side , then it would look just like that . and then you have a strip of uh lights or something user interface : yeah , exactly , and then there is yeah . yeah , something like that , yeah . marketing : okay , yeah . project manager : well , uh i think it 's nice , for one thing . maybe put something on top of it or , you know , like that 's looks funny . user interface : no . no . marketing : project manager : i do n't know . or some bump . marketing : i think i think that 'll be too big tha too big then . project manager : maybe some yeah ? user interface : bumper or something . project manager : we 'll have to think about it . i think we 're we 're done . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yes , we are . project manager : we can save this one . user interface : lunch break . marketing : alright . yes , i guess it 's lunch time . user interface : okay then . project manager : mm mm . marketing : i do n't know . half and hour ? user interface : okay , five uh marketing : i thought our next uh next individual round was half an hour . project manager : yeah , that was what uh marketing : i do n't know about the lunch break . project manager : mm , we 'll hear about it . marketing : well </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on the technical functions on the remote control . </s> project manager : oh that . it wo n't does n't maybe we should start with the the technical functions . industrial designer : okay , project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : how can i get this on the whiteboard ? project manager : well it 's you dumped the file in the uh in the sh in the project document folder . user interface : in project . industrial designer : okay , i 've done that . project manager : you 've already done that ? user interface : no can that open . project manager : well let 's close this one . we 'll just uh open a new one . user interface : open it there . project manager : uh , well . yes . uh-oh . new thing . oh yeah , uh i have to say something . uh , due to some uh technical problems i have n't uh digitized the last uh the meeting minutes . but i 'll uh make sure that uh happens next time . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . about the get project manager : and i 'll get this one uh in digital uh form too . industrial designer : 'kay , we 're going to um uh talk about working design . um , the method of the remote control is uh electrical energy , it activates a chip uh in the remote . it 's an electrical circuit which compose uh messages in the form of uh uh infrared signals to control the television . mm , it 's a nowadays very uh known , a known uh uh technology . um , the known technology can make a cost very low . uh , it 's a wild uh a wide sale uh of uh remote controls in the world . and and the components are very uh very cheap . um , uh , diodes , uh bat batteries and uh uh led lights , they 're needed and they 're uh everywhere available . uh , again , it 's a fair price . it 's a common uh technology uh , like i told um uh , the circuit board , it 's the most um important uh um part of the remote control . uh , we can use for that uh fibreglass with copper wires , it 's it is uh can be made as fast as printing paper . it 's uh it 's all very uh project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , they 're making it uh all the time . uh , project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it 's not uh very specialised uh technology . i have n't come to here , but um i 've got uh some uh images of uh remote controls . they were not uh very uh trendy or just uh just a remote control like everyone knows . so i do n't know uh why i should put it here . uh project manager : okay . but it 's the technical side of the remote control . user interface : industrial designer : yes , but uh i uh have n't made it because uh of the time . project manager : oh . okay . well , we 'll we 'll have to skip that part then . industrial designer : what ? user interface : okay . project manager : but you do n't think it 's a problem um to design uh the technical part of the remote control ? it 's gon na be easy ? industrial designer : no . yes . project manager : okay . user interface : but nothing restricted for user interface ? project manager : yeah . m user interface : with technical industrial designer : um , no , it 's uh it 's just a part of uh a known technology , yeah . user interface : i do n't know . project manager : okay . user interface : 'kay . industrial designer : remote control is nothing special nowadays . project manager : r regardless of what type of functions we want to implement . does n't really matter . user interface : okay . industrial designer : um user interface : but i kind of uh industrial designer : i do n't think so , project manager : okay . yeah , okay . industrial designer : because of the all the televisions uh there are a few maybe a couple of televisions with the new functions , user interface : yes . uh project manager : okay . industrial designer : but is it useful to put them on a on a standard uh remote ? project manager : well , we 'll see . we 'll see later on . user interface : well , the technical functions . um , well i do n't know if you got the same uh pictures as i got , but uh i got these two , and i think they 're we have to focus uh on uh the uh one hand the expert view or the novice user . th i think it 's it 's very much uh depending on the user requirements , i do n't s uh know who 's doing t project manager : well , uh will there be some uh user requirements later on ? the ones i i 've uh received from the account manager . user interface : yeah , but it i think that 's very important to watch uh what kind of functions there we want to uh put in a remote control . project manager : yeah . well , we 'll keep this in mind , and then discuss it later on . user interface : yeah , well y we can put functions in it when uh yeah , when we uh get the user requirements uh and we can update it . project manager : uh-huh . okay , but this real this uh big d uh distinction between this type of remote . we should we should choose one uh we should not compromise but uh really choose for uh expert viewer or novice v marketing : yes , i agree . yeah . project manager : yeah ? well , what that 's what you want trying to say . user interface : well , yeah w if you want try a a a huge market , if you want to reach a huge market , uh like elderly people and we have to choose for novice user . project manager : okay . okay . user interface : but i do n't know . it 's it 's really um depending on how how how far the the the remote controls are already in n um in use . project manager : yeah , well some of these uh , yeah . well , some of that will yeah , but i but it will be more clear when we come to the uh u uh some of the new requirements . user interface : yeah , probably , yeah . project manager : so user interface : uh well , there are l at least uh basic functions , uh like just th the channels uh one till nine , uh on and off switch , which must be clear with a red button or something like that . um , most standard uh have volume , of course , and a mute function , and , of course , the next and previous channel . i think that 's just basic what we need . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and from that on we can user requirements what we need more . uh yeah , i just um um i thought joost was looking at the trendy the trends in the markets , and i do n't know if there uh are any um uh if you put more functions , more buttons , maybe it 's com becoming less trendy or something like that . m you can just you can k marketing : i have n't really found a conclusion like that . user interface : you can keep it in mind that . marketing : yeah . user interface : i do n't know . uh , i th i thought the the with less buttons you can make a more trendier uh marketing : design . user interface : yeah , more trendier design , i think . i think . marketing : sounds interesting . project manager : user interface : yeah ? marketing : user interface : uh , well , that 's all i have to say , i think . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah , that was it . marketing : alright . project manager : well , then the marketing expert can uh tell us something about the current market . marketing : yes . user interface : . marketing : yeah . it 's alright . um alright , i 've done some research for functional requirements . um yes . the working method um there were hundred uh uh w h one hundred people , uh how do you say uh , f watched using remote controls in the usability lab and they also uh filled out a questionnaire uh with a few questions . uh , i 've lined them up here . uh , ask whether um common remote control looks good or not , about willingness to spend money on remote control , about zapping behaviour , and uh and stuff like that . i uh have found some interesting things . we do we do got a market . um , three out of four people claim m uh to find remote controls ugly . so if we make a trendy design , we sure have seventy fi seventy five percent of the market , which you can reach . um , three out of four users uh zaps a lot , as i uh quoted here from the uh results . zap buttons are used one hundred and sixty eight times per hour . that 's quite a lot . um , relevant options are , of course , power buttons . although , only used once per hour . uh , channel selection , volume and buttons for text , and the more um , yeah , other functions , like audio settings , video settings , sound settings are not said to be very important and uh very much used . furthermore , fifty percent says uh they only use ten percent of the buttons on a remote control . that does n't say we got we can leave ninety percent off . but it sure um says we should n't make it too uh complicated . fifty percent also claims uh to have lost a remote control very often in the room . and um an important thing here , the most important customers uh , which is over seventy percent of our market , is in the age range of thirty six to sixty five years old . and uh elderly people , our market , are less interested in uh nice features , but more willingly to spend more money on remote controls . so , what i was thinking oh , wrong side . we should n't implement too much features on uh on our remote control , because elderly people will get th lost . group features for a higher usability , uh what i was claiming in the previous meeting . um , all the settings , about audio settings , video settings and channel settings , which are not very often used , we could group them uh on one button and make them accessible uh in one menu button or whatever , because they are used very rarely and well , it uh there are a lot of options there , so we can really make uh yeah , how do you say , we can spare at buttons over there . project manager : okay . marketing : and um , if you want to implement v_c_r_ and d_v_d_ options , group them in the button , not too uh yeah . small buttons , so they wo n't be very um , how do you say project manager : visually presents . marketing : yes , wo n't be very present , thank you . and a trendy look , well uh , although seventy percent of the market is uh consists of elderly people uh who do n't really care for trendy looks or whatever , i guess it can do no harm to make it trendy for the other thirty percent . that was kind of what i found . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : well , then we i 'm gon na show you some of the new project requirements and then we gon na discuss on uh what features we find important . marketing : yes . project manager : uh , well some of the uh new requirements make some of your findings quite uh irrelevant , i think . marketing : project manager : because um uh s decided to put they have decide to put two additional requirements forward . well , now i see four . marketing : two ? project manager : that 's kinda strange . well , they say tele teletext becomes outdated since the popularity of the internet . well , i think that may be so , but well , we ca n't just leave the teletext button off . user interface : well project manager : it 's impossible , i think . user interface : no way . marketing : no uh , i agree , i agree . project manager : so the compromise we could make is just to make one teletext button , you know , like on and off , and do n't make a lot of special put a lot of special features on it to make it transparent or marketing : not too much , no . project manager : you know , it 's just you want you want to be able to make use of teletext , but not to play with it that much . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we have to think of that . the remote control should only be used for television . otherwise , the project becomes more complex , which endangers the time t t ma uh the time to market . so maybe we should leave all d_v_d_ and v_c_r_ related features off completely . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : i do n't know . i think that uh that 's what they 're trying to say . marketing : project manager : uh , our current customers are within the age group of forty plus . new products should reach a new market with customers that are younger than forty . so you uh talked about the elderly who were willing to spend more on a remote control and who were interested . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but , well , they 're not relevant because we are aiming at a younger marketing : i do n't really agree actually , to be honest . it 's a very small market which we will approach then if we uh want to reach customers younger than forty . it 's only like thirty percent of the total market . project manager : yeah , but it is it 's is a dif it 's a fact that the th th that bigger market you 're talking about , we already cover that . marketing : mayb yeah ? project manager : our company already sells remote control to the older people , but we we also want , you know , a new customer group . that 's the one we have n't covered yet . so i think that 's what the problem is . we have n't got remote controls for uh marketing : okay . project manager : well i think , yeah . marketing : maybe maybe we can compromise a little bit . project manager : yeah , i think so . maybe if it 's marketing : not too much then , bu alright . project manager : no no , but i think we have to just keep in mind what the older age group wants . so maybe we can make a remote control that 's primarily interesting for the younger group , but is n't that bad for an older person either . uh , our corporate image sh should stay recognisable in our products . our product 's corporate colour and slogan must be implemented in the new design . okay , something else nice to know . user interface : but what 's our slogan ? project manager : sorry ? yeah , you will have to look that up . user interface : the slogan uh marketing : yeah , i 'll have a look . project manager : i think it 's something about the user interface : puts fashion in electronics . marketing : we put the fashion in electronics . project manager : oh , okay . i thought it w might be , let 's make things better or something , but user interface : sense simplicity . marketing : sense and simplicity . project manager : okay well , let 's go back to the the agenda . so we 've now had to the three presentations . we know about the new project requirements . that means we can uh well d yeah , discuss on the remote control functions . well , if i can uh make a start , i think it 's becoming more clear what kind of remote control it 's gon na be , and i already talked about the maybe you have a f familiar with the rem remote control that has the the can opener underneath it . i think we 're we 're looking for some marketing : project manager : yeah , we we 're looking for a really simple remote control with only basic tv functions . y well , that user interface : yeah . marketing : well , to be honest , if um our uh aim group is uh till forty , not older than forty , maybe that 's not very uh yeah , we do n't really need to have a simple remote control . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : i think we can implement more functions then , because um basically uh the younger people are more able to adapt to new technology user interface : yeah , but wha project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : and therefore will be a more project manager : m yeah , that 's why um well a lot of um the use the requirements the the account manager sent me , i think they are are c are contradicting each other , user interface : but project manager : because they want a simpler design , and no uh other uh s functions than just tv , but they s do aim at a younger marketing : yes . project manager : well , ma user interface : yeah , but you sai you said that that a lot of functions are n't used . marketing : yeah . user interface : so why should j we put this function in ? marketing : well , i think user interface : i think more i think uh people younger people are more looking for just a trendy look than uh more functions . industrial designer : project manager : but i think uh you we can make some discuss uh distinctions in uh what kin in the , know , th th in functions you have y well you have different kind of uh equipment in your room , like a t tv and a d_v_d_ player . you can uh , know , you you can make very d you can put very detailed functions regarding the tv set on your remote control uh with the with uh the , you know , audio settings and uh v uh screen settings . we do n't want that . i think that was that became clear . we do n't want . but w maybe we should put some func uh , i know that the younger people will most likely have a d_v_d_ player they want to , you know , they want to uh marketing : yeah , control . user interface : yeah , but uh you said project manager : control , remotely . user interface : yeah , d yeah , but th the functions are not in the remote control we 're making . marketing : project manager : no , yeah , th th the user requirements of the the the new project requirements told us not to user interface : it 's n yeah . project manager : but maybe w yeah . i think we maybe should user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , well we should uh put some functions for other maybe for other equipment on it . but just the basic functions . maybe like rewind and wind , or n what d what do you guys think ? industrial designer : but you can put them under the same button . marketing : not much more than that . project manager : yeah , if as far as possible . marketing : yep . or we can u u we could put 'em behind the flip-flap or whatever . project manager : but what do you think ? do th should we implement features that uh uh or functions that to control other devices ? no , you do n't think so ? marketing : user interface : no , new requirements say no . project manager : yeah , the new requirements say so . user interface : so industrial designer : but you can put a play and stop and and rewind . project manager : well , maybe it 's marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe there there there is something th m most of the time these functions do n't support the particular device as well as their their own remote control . user interface : yeah , but project manager : you know , a lot of d_v_d_ players have some tricky settings with industrial designer : yes , but we user interface : i i if it 's too simple uh th they wo n't use the remote control , they use their own th th with lot more functions . marketing : y yes . project manager : yep , exactly . that 's that 's wha marketing : but but for for example , v_c_r_ , that 's better example in this case . i think on a remote control for television you do n't need to be able to programme uh the v_c_r_ to start recording at three p_m_ or whatever , project manager : no no , you do n't no no , you do n't need it . no , no . user interface : no , no . exactly . marketing : just play , stop , rewind and uh fast forward . project manager : okay , but we have to think uh w we have to think d_v_d_ i th uh , i guess , marketing : yeah , i know , but uh project manager : so um but uh from my experience it 's kinda a lot of d_v_d_ players , you know , like forwarding , goes differently . uh , you get two speed or eight speed or sixteen speed . it 's c sometimes a bit difficult . user interface : mm , yeah . project manager : maybe if we just leave the d_v_d_ functional m uh well , i was thinking about putting it in , but concerning the project requirements and what you just said , i think we m should focus on the tv then . marketing : yes . user interface : yeah , but just keep it simple and look more at th project manager : and uh and it 's just an uh a complimentary remote and not a universal one . if you want to keep it simple , you can make a universal remote . user interface : no . it 's only for television . so project manager : okay . it 's just a s it it should be something that is like a gadget on your coffee table , industrial designer : yes , but there are there are project manager : and it 's just for when you you you jump on the couch , you pick up the the the nice remote , the simple one , just to put on the television , nothing more . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , nothing more . exactly . project manager : okay . marketing : alright . project manager : um , but what televis industrial designer : but how wi how will you be able to handle a whole market ? there are uh a dozen of uh dozens of of remote controls that have project manager : yeah , we we 'll make w this one trendy . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : and simple . user interface : the user interface is easy . project manager : well , we we will come to that , but ju first on the on the functions . so we should put uh zap buttons on it . um , also numbers , to uh to go to the specific channels . user interface : and the basic yeah , basic functions , yeah . marketing : yes , definitely , yeah . user interface : it 's too much integrated in the other . project manager : okay , a t a teletext button should be there . but just one big teletext button , on and off . user interface : yeah . project manager : probably . marketing : yeah , and maybe two or three other options , but not nothing more than that . i think stop function is very useful . if you have a uh a page which consists of more pages , and you are not a very quick reader , project manager : oh , okay . marketing : then i think it 's very irritating if the next page shows up , but project manager : yeah , but uh i think that becomes too difficult , it 's not a very common function and people will have to read up on their remote then . marketing : well , i use it very regularly , the action . i re i use it quite often . project manager : yeah , yeah , but maybe you s yeah yeah , maybe y you do , but i 've never heard of it in the first place . and user interface : will you look marketing : industrial designer : project manager : we have to well t yeah , and t and teletext is becoming outdated . user interface : look at the market . project manager : we just want to see what programmes are on and what time it is probably . yeah . i do n't know . i think that that 's kin getting too complex for our remote . user interface : well project manager : i do n't know what you th guys think . marketing : might be . might be . user interface : yeah , i uh , it 's sunday i always use it for the uh yeah , for the soccer uh project manager : yeah , but do you like to have a such a s stop button ? or do you think it uh i think it 's a kind of uh uh very rare and special function . user interface : well , uh when you uh uh when you look uh for example um , a couple of weeks ago i looked at the for the flights , and there are a lot of flights in one page , so if if th project manager : yeah . okay , it goes yeah , but that 's kind of stuff we should do on the internet right now . that 's why it was uh said in the in the use in the r new requirements . industrial designer : yes , but you could put user interface : yeah , but industrial designer : on the z on the zap buttons you can put it to uh to uh access all the same pages . project manager : well yeah uh , industrial designer : if you have seven pages , you can go up and down . project manager : lots of new televisions can store pages , you know , and then you can just skip manually through them using i think we should just put one teletext button on it . user interface : true . project manager : then we meet uh the new requirements . we also meet the other thin y you sh you just re we have to choose for the the simple design , i guess . user interface : a simple yeah . project manager : okay . um , well , what functions do we have to decide on ? or do we uh i dunno if we have t stif specifically name all the functions we n we want . we have the zap and uh the volume . should we do m make them very big ? the the the zap button . d d marketing : i think the plus and the minus button should be uh quite present , project manager : th that 's that 's that 's considered to be trendy also . user interface : but trendy , yeah . project manager : or maybe you should place them on a uh , in a special way ? user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : maybe we can make uh a kind of a joystick . project manager : yeah , something or uh somethin special way to to zap through the it has to s it has to be yeah , and quick . you have to use it very quickly . user interface : original . it was uh true . marketing : if you grab the remote , your hands should be on top of the plus . project manager : yeah , and it the buttons should make it um possible to to zap through your channels in a rapid at a rapid pace . oh , what should we decide on then ? i think in a in a case of this simple remote control , the technical aspects which uh were n't worked out already , but it w should n't be a problem then . industrial designer : but user interface : yeah . industrial designer : no , it 's o just signals uh and the television d uh does the rest . user interface : maybe uh project manager : no , okay , but we do n't have to uh , when we do n't want to uh control other devices , i think it makes it even more simple . user interface : uh maybe we uh uh the batteries maybe . if you use large batteries or small batter batteries . project manager : i think industrial designer : the most standard batteries . project manager : i think that we should use uh d user interface : yeah ? marketing : i think double a_ . project manager : yeah , not not uh the b the watch kind th the most uh well , it has to be simple , and i wi user interface : yeah . marketing : the most ordinary uh batteries . project manager : which are most likely to be found somewhere in the house , you know . </s>
<s> why did marketing disagree with project manager when discussing the technical functions on the remote control ? </s> marketing : yeah . it 's alright . um alright , i 've done some research for functional requirements . um yes . the working method um there were hundred uh uh w h one hundred people , uh how do you say uh , f watched using remote controls in the usability lab and they also uh filled out a questionnaire uh with a few questions . uh , i 've lined them up here . uh , ask whether um common remote control looks good or not , about willingness to spend money on remote control , about zapping behaviour , and uh and stuff like that . i uh have found some interesting things . we do we do got a market . um , three out of four people claim m uh to find remote controls ugly . so if we make a trendy design , we sure have seventy fi seventy five percent of the market , which you can reach . um , three out of four users uh zaps a lot , as i uh quoted here from the uh results . zap buttons are used one hundred and sixty eight times per hour . that 's quite a lot . um , relevant options are , of course , power buttons . although , only used once per hour . uh , channel selection , volume and buttons for text , and the more um , yeah , other functions , like audio settings , video settings , sound settings are not said to be very important and uh very much used . furthermore , fifty percent says uh they only use ten percent of the buttons on a remote control . that does n't say we got we can leave ninety percent off . but it sure um says we should n't make it too uh complicated . fifty percent also claims uh to have lost a remote control very often in the room . and um an important thing here , the most important customers uh , which is over seventy percent of our market , is in the age range of thirty six to sixty five years old . and uh elderly people , our market , are less interested in uh nice features , but more willingly to spend more money on remote controls . so , what i was thinking oh , wrong side . we should n't implement too much features on uh on our remote control , because elderly people will get th lost . group features for a higher usability , uh what i was claiming in the previous meeting . um , all the settings , about audio settings , video settings and channel settings , which are not very often used , we could group them uh on one button and make them accessible uh in one menu button or whatever , because they are used very rarely and well , it uh there are a lot of options there , so we can really make uh yeah , how do you say , we can spare at buttons over there . project manager : okay . marketing : and um , if you want to implement v_c_r_ and d_v_d_ options , group them in the button , not too uh yeah . small buttons , so they wo n't be very um , how do you say project manager : visually presents . marketing : yes , wo n't be very present , thank you . and a trendy look , well uh , although seventy percent of the market is uh consists of elderly people uh who do n't really care for trendy looks or whatever , i guess it can do no harm to make it trendy for the other thirty percent . that was kind of what i found . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : well , then we i 'm gon na show you some of the new project requirements and then we gon na discuss on uh what features we find important . marketing : yes . project manager : uh , well some of the uh new requirements make some of your findings quite uh irrelevant , i think . marketing : project manager : because um uh s decided to put they have decide to put two additional requirements forward . well , now i see four . marketing : two ? project manager : that 's kinda strange . well , they say tele teletext becomes outdated since the popularity of the internet . well , i think that may be so , but well , we ca n't just leave the teletext button off . user interface : well project manager : it 's impossible , i think . user interface : no way . marketing : no uh , i agree , i agree . project manager : so the compromise we could make is just to make one teletext button , you know , like on and off , and do n't make a lot of special put a lot of special features on it to make it transparent or marketing : not too much , no . project manager : you know , it 's just you want you want to be able to make use of teletext , but not to play with it that much . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we have to think of that . the remote control should only be used for television . otherwise , the project becomes more complex , which endangers the time t t ma uh the time to market . so maybe we should leave all d_v_d_ and v_c_r_ related features off completely . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : i do n't know . i think that uh that 's what they 're trying to say . marketing : project manager : uh , our current customers are within the age group of forty plus . new products should reach a new market with customers that are younger than forty . so you uh talked about the elderly who were willing to spend more on a remote control and who were interested . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but , well , they 're not relevant because we are aiming at a younger marketing : i do n't really agree actually , to be honest . it 's a very small market which we will approach then if we uh want to reach customers younger than forty . it 's only like thirty percent of the total market . project manager : yeah , but it is it 's is a dif it 's a fact that the th th that bigger market you 're talking about , we already cover that . marketing : mayb yeah ? project manager : our company already sells remote control to the older people , but we we also want , you know , a new customer group . that 's the one we have n't covered yet . so i think that 's what the problem is . we have n't got remote controls for uh </s>
<s> what did user interface think of putting lots of functions in the remote control when discussing the technical functions on it ? </s> marketing : well , to be honest , if um our uh aim group is uh till forty , not older than forty , maybe that 's not very uh yeah , we do n't really need to have a simple remote control . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : i think we can implement more functions then , because um basically uh the younger people are more able to adapt to new technology user interface : yeah , but wha project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : and therefore will be a more project manager : m yeah , that 's why um well a lot of um the use the requirements the the account manager sent me , i think they are are c are contradicting each other , user interface : but project manager : because they want a simpler design , and no uh other uh s functions than just tv , but they s do aim at a younger marketing : yes . project manager : well , ma user interface : yeah , but you sai you said that that a lot of functions are n't used . marketing : yeah . user interface : so why should j we put this function in ? marketing : well , i think </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about extra designs or gadgets to make the remote control special ? </s> project manager : yeah . yeah , okay . but that 's that 's do you uh have you have you think about tha thought about that ? how we can what the extra touch can be . do you suggest design or the shape or some gadget f f kind of feature or industrial designer : maybe th m project manager : well , it was something about how we lose them . maybe it should be a remote control when you you clap you hands it makes some noise or some gadget kind of thing . marketing : i think that 's n that 's more for a for an age range or uh ten to twelve or whatever . user interface : to find him . that 's maybe yeah . project manager : yeah . i do n't know . i do n't know . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : nah , um a lot of people like to have such kind kind of kind of gay kind of things . it w it w should be like a birthday present or something that you give someone , and it is i has something nice . marketing : yeah , yeah , that 's good one , yep . project manager : or maybe it w should have a big uh light that can flash or something on it , user interface : yeah . project manager : or maybe it should or an or the like the the can opener . maybe it contains some feature that you do n't normally link to a remote control . i think it 's very impor because we 're gon na make such a basic remote control , we have to do something to make it special . user interface : yeah . project manager : it 's gon na cost twenty five euros . marketing : ye i think the can opener i is a brilliant idea actually , because television and beer is not a rare combination . project manager : yeah , but the well , it 's already been done . user interface : yeah , but that 's yeah . project manager : nah . yeah , that 's true . but and i think it 's gon na be uh very uh it has to be sturdy or something , so maybe with with bouncing pads so that you can just throw it on the floor or something . it has to be used something special , user interface : yeah . project manager : and you really it has to , you know y not s people , when they buy it , they have to think , well this one lasts for a long time . we 're really gon na use them . not some thing you you throw away next week , you know . marketing : no , that 's true . project manager : so maybe uh that 's i i think that 's when uh when we decide on these type of functions , know , basic functions , uh it 's very important to find something like this . so there 's a very important task for you . and maybe we can all think about it . user interface : be original , yeah . project manager : uh , also for you maybe , when t you it 's very nice when you can be entra when you can be trendy , and and uh and al as in a friend use friendly as well , you know . user interface : mm-hmm . and use friendly , yeah . project manager : so big buttons , flashy design , and maybe some kind of gadget kind of thing . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : project manager : uh-huh . user interface : must brain-storm . marketing : yeah , a swapable front or whatever . project manager : yeah , or just different colours would be uh i do n't know if people also wan na spend more money on fronts for their uh remote control . user interface : well industrial designer : for the remote control . project manager : it could be be yeah , you never know , but user interface : why not ? marketing : yeah . user interface : more money for us . marketing : project manager : but it and i think we have to make it quite big . user interface : yeah . quite big . yeah , you think ? project manager : yeah , marketing : yes , definitely , definitely . project manager : people industrial designer : that 's to be uh a formed for your hand . project manager : so , and and also because uh it is expensive . if you want it to be something , you know , it 's ha does n't have much functions marketing : project manager : want to be you do n't want to get it l make it marketing : yes , it it it should be f be visible nearly anywhere in the room . as i uh as i said during my presentation , fifty percent uh o project manager : mm-hmm . and shou and should ni look nice when you put it on a table . i i think you m might wan na put it uh user interface : a standard or something . project manager : yeah , that it it it it stands up . yeah , you have to put it on its so it 's like a vase or uh something you put on a table . marketing : yeah . a face ? project manager : no no , put stuff inside it . but , it 's like like a statue or something marketing : or uh yeah , yeah . yeah . user interface : industrial designer : more like a joystick then . marketing : yeah , yeah , i see what you mean , yep . user interface : it 's like you have uh four phones . something like that . project manager : yeah yeah , but yeah , but you also can put it somewhere near the window in marketing : if you do that , but i do n't know if that 's possible within the production cost of twelve and a half euros . project manager : that it 's it 's fashionable . user interface : project manager : i i do n't marketing : i in in the base we could like make uh a button , and if you push it , the remote control itself s makes noise . project manager : oh , yeah . marketing : that 's probably stupid , but uh as i found here uh , fifty percent , was it fifty ? industrial designer : but that 's that 's fun for the first time , and then the second marketing : uh fifty percent fifty percent often loses remote control . project manager : yeah , but but when you when it gets lost , how can you press the button to make it marketing : no uh , of the base the the the the the the the thing you put it in . project manager : oh , okay . user interface : on the television . project manager : uh , that 's kind of nice . user interface : oh , like this . marketing : if an a button in in that uh user interface : project manager : and then also you do n't even need batteries , because you can make it uh chargeable . industrial designer : or you can user interface : a char chargeable . yeah . marketing : yeah , you can ma make rechargeable one , yeah . why not . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , that w yeah , but yeah , the pro no , well i think that it might be t p well , nee but we do n't yeah . user interface : why not . project manager : maybe you , but we do n't know much about production cost , but when you you can imagine that when you spend twenty five euros on a remote control and it 's a basic remote control , then the then the money there must be money to spend on that kind of st you know , rechargeable units . industrial designer : with recharger . user interface : marketing : it should only cost twelve and a half euros , of course . aye ? project manager : yeah , but we would d ma we 'd do it in taiwan and so , it 's not gon na be that expen user interface : production . marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : uh i i think it 's a great idea . user interface : it should be possible . i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . project manager : s some kind of be i 've never seen that before , and you make it uh um be uh , you see it with uh the mo the mouses nowadays . user interface : to make a base or something ? marketing : yes . yes , definitely . yeah . industrial designer : yes , but is that handy ? project manager : well , i well it 's really ch you can recharge it , so you ha never have the battery problem . that 's one . user interface : it 's it 's it 's it 's project manager : and uh you can always find your remote control up user interface : it 's not the purpose to be handy , it 's industrial designer : but but remote controls remote controls nowadays can can last uh two years , three years , with with t two batteries . project manager : uh , okay . well , maybe yeah , you could when that 's when it 's too costly , you could probably skip the recharger , industrial designer : and then you project manager : but you will you do need uh also an uh , also you would need a battery in the the base unit as well , you know . does it makes it kinda industrial designer : yes . or marketing : well y you you could connect that to two hundred to twenty volts , of course . user interface : mm . yeah , but that 's not it 's ugly , i think . project manager : yeah , yeah . okay . yeah . marketing : i do n't know . project manager : yeah , but then it 's very easy to make it also a rechargeab i do n't think that is gon na cost much to make it also a recharge function in it . marketing : on the other hand , if you do n't do it , we can also make a nice bay . i mean , it looks trendy and still still put a bleep function in it , project manager : yeah . marketing : but um i think the bay is definitely uh project manager : i think it 's a good idea . and make it , you know , we we um well , we uh it 's it is n't a t a most uh costly uh remote control . we can save on the on the functions . we just put some simple button in , make it big and sturdy , nothing more , and just make s sure there 's some noise that it can make , or probably some kind of cheap light thing around it or that it uh that it lights up , marketing : sure , why not . yep . project manager : it 's also nice . and if you put it away , i think it 's uh w we have to we uh that 's uh marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's not a easy market . user interface : yeah . project manager : we have to something special . and for twenty five euros people want something remote c special from your mote control , marketing : yeah . user interface : true . project manager : and we ca n't deliver that in r with uh regards to the functions , user interface : yeah . marketing : definitely . project manager : because we are n't gon na put marketing : with eye candy , ear candy , whatever . yeah , definitely . project manager : yeah . and then uh when make it , you know , nice looking shape and this and then you also you got the stand-up thing . yeah . i think i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , it must be must be a gadget to have . project manager : yeah . marketing : definitely , yeah . project manager : oh , if it let 's well , we will see what 's possible concerning the the costs , and if it 's possible we 'll do that . and we even try to save up on other stuff to make sure we can do such a thing . user interface : yeah . project manager : and the first thing we the most likeable thing to to n to skip is then probably the recharge function or something . if that 's too expensive , we wo n't do that . user interface : yeah , we c project manager : but it would be nice . marketing : it would be nice , yes . project manager : it 's the idea . i know that batteries last long nowadays . and and what people just think about , well , i 'll never have to buy any r batteries again , so y b because it 's very annoying when your battery is empty . and you know then when you have n't batteries around , and probably for two weeks , your remo i 've experienced that that marketing : most televisions break down before the battery pack is empty , so yes . project manager : yeah , okay . so , easy functions . well , we will we will i think we 'll work that out , zapping , numbers on it , bi user interface : or just give a beep when the battery 's out or uh down . project manager : yeah . but it 's also annoying . marketing : yeah , why not . user interface : project manager : 'cause as long as it stays as it ke keeps working , you 're not very motivated to do something about it . user interface : yeah . true . project manager : then it beeps all the time and . marketing : no , that 's true . project manager : you do n't want to have ever have those problems , and you wo n't have if if you have the rechargeable . and you do n't have to use the unit , you can also put it on the side if people do n't like it . uh , i i in the in the ma marketing : why not . industrial designer : but you pay for it . project manager : yeah , but it w i mean , if if they pay for it because they think , oh , that 's a great idea , i 'm gon na use it . and when it , you know , when time goes by and they think , well , i 'll never put him in the recharger , i think last long enough , then they put it on side and they can use it now and then . then when they look get m i i i know for sure that everybody who buys this remote control , within a couple of months of they will be in the situation that they they 're seeking for the remote control , they wan na see something quick and uh just push the button and th uh , user interface : yeah . project manager : i think it 's brilliant . marketing : bleep bleep bleep , oh there it is , yeah . yeah . project manager : yeah , i 've never it 's so simple , but i 've never seen it . user interface : yeah . project manager : m maybe we should really do this . user interface : and you can leave it just there . marketing : no . nearly . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> how did project manager think of the cost of adding rechargeable units to the device when discussing extra designs or gadgets to make the remote control special ? </s> project manager : yeah , that it it it it stands up . yeah , you have to put it on its so it 's like a vase or uh something you put on a table . marketing : yeah . a face ? project manager : no no , put stuff inside it . but , it 's like like a statue or something marketing : or uh yeah , yeah . yeah . user interface : industrial designer : more like a joystick then . marketing : yeah , yeah , i see what you mean , yep . user interface : it 's like you have uh four phones . something like that . project manager : yeah yeah , but yeah , but you also can put it somewhere near the window in marketing : if you do that , but i do n't know if that 's possible within the production cost of twelve and a half euros . project manager : that it 's it 's fashionable . user interface : project manager : i i do n't marketing : i in in the base we could like make uh a button , and if you push it , the remote control itself s makes noise . project manager : oh , yeah . marketing : that 's probably stupid , but uh as i found here uh , fifty percent , was it fifty ? industrial designer : but that 's that 's fun for the first time , and then the second marketing : uh fifty percent fifty percent often loses remote control . project manager : yeah , but but when you when it gets lost , how can you press the button to make it marketing : no uh , of the base the the the the the the the thing you put it in . project manager : oh , okay . user interface : on the television . project manager : uh , that 's kind of nice . user interface : oh , like this . marketing : if an a button in in that uh user interface : project manager : and then also you do n't even need batteries , because you can make it uh chargeable . industrial designer : or you can user interface : a char chargeable . yeah . marketing : yeah , you can ma make rechargeable one , yeah . why not . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , that w yeah , but yeah , the pro no , well i think that it might be t p well , nee but we do n't yeah . user interface : why not . project manager : maybe you , but we do n't know much about production cost , but when you you can imagine that when you spend twenty five euros on a remote control and it 's a basic remote control , then the then the money there must be money to spend on that kind of st you know , rechargeable units . industrial designer : with recharger . user interface : marketing : it should only cost twelve and a half euros , of course . aye ? project manager : yeah , but we would d ma we 'd do it in taiwan and so , it 's not gon na be that expen user interface : production . marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : uh i i think it 's a great idea . user interface : it should be possible . i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . project manager : s some kind of be i 've never seen that before , and you make it uh um be uh , you see it with uh the mo the mouses nowadays . user interface : to make a base or something ? marketing : yes . yes , definitely . yeah . industrial designer : yes , but is that handy ? project manager : well , i well it 's really ch you can recharge it , so you ha never have the battery problem . that 's one . user interface : it 's it 's it 's it 's project manager : and uh you can always find your remote control up user interface : it 's not the purpose to be handy , it 's industrial designer : but but remote controls remote controls nowadays can can last uh two years , three years , with with t two batteries . project manager : uh , okay . well , maybe yeah , you could when that 's when it 's too costly , you could probably skip the recharger , industrial designer : and then you project manager : but you will you do need uh also an uh , also you would need a battery in the the base unit as well , you know . does it makes it kinda industrial designer : yes . or marketing : well y you you could connect that to two hundred to twenty volts , of course . user interface : mm . yeah , but that 's not it 's ugly , i think . project manager : yeah , yeah . okay . yeah . marketing : i do n't know . project manager : yeah , but then it 's very easy to make it also a rechargeab i do n't think that is gon na cost much to make it also a recharge function in it . marketing : on the other hand , if you do n't do it , we can also make a nice bay . i mean , it looks trendy and still still put a bleep function in it , project manager : yeah . marketing : but um i think the bay is definitely uh project manager : i think it 's a good idea . and make it , you know , we we um well , we uh it 's it is n't a t a most uh costly uh remote control . we can save on the on the functions . we just put some simple button in , make it big and sturdy , nothing more , and just make s sure there 's some noise that it can make , or probably some kind of cheap light thing around it or that it uh that it lights up , marketing : sure , why not . yep . project manager : it 's also nice . and if you put it away , i think it 's uh w we have to we uh that 's uh marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's not a easy market . user interface : yeah . project manager : we have to something special . and for twenty five euros people want something remote c special from your mote control , marketing : yeah . user interface : true . project manager : and we ca n't deliver that in r with uh regards to the functions , user interface : yeah . marketing : definitely . project manager : because we are n't gon na put marketing : with eye candy , ear candy , whatever . yeah , definitely . project manager : yeah . and then uh when make it , you know , nice looking shape and this and then you also you got the stand-up thing . yeah . i think i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , it must be must be a gadget to have . project manager : yeah . marketing : definitely , yeah . project manager : oh , if it let 's well , we will see what 's possible concerning the the costs , and if it 's possible we 'll do that . and we even try to save up on other stuff to make sure we can do such a thing . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what 's industrial designer 's concern about the idea of adding rechargeable units to the device during discussion on extra designs or gadgets to make the remote control special ? </s> project manager : yeah , that it it it it stands up . yeah , you have to put it on its so it 's like a vase or uh something you put on a table . marketing : yeah . a face ? project manager : no no , put stuff inside it . but , it 's like like a statue or something marketing : or uh yeah , yeah . yeah . user interface : industrial designer : more like a joystick then . marketing : yeah , yeah , i see what you mean , yep . user interface : it 's like you have uh four phones . something like that . project manager : yeah yeah , but yeah , but you also can put it somewhere near the window in marketing : if you do that , but i do n't know if that 's possible within the production cost of twelve and a half euros . project manager : that it 's it 's fashionable . user interface : project manager : i i do n't marketing : i in in the base we could like make uh a button , and if you push it , the remote control itself s makes noise . project manager : oh , yeah . marketing : that 's probably stupid , but uh as i found here uh , fifty percent , was it fifty ? industrial designer : but that 's that 's fun for the first time , and then the second marketing : uh fifty percent fifty percent often loses remote control . project manager : yeah , but but when you when it gets lost , how can you press the button to make it marketing : no uh , of the base the the the the the the the thing you put it in . project manager : oh , okay . user interface : on the television . project manager : uh , that 's kind of nice . user interface : oh , like this . marketing : if an a button in in that uh user interface : project manager : and then also you do n't even need batteries , because you can make it uh chargeable . industrial designer : or you can user interface : a char chargeable . yeah . marketing : yeah , you can ma make rechargeable one , yeah . why not . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , that w yeah , but yeah , the pro no , well i think that it might be t p well , nee but we do n't yeah . user interface : why not . project manager : maybe you , but we do n't know much about production cost , but when you you can imagine that when you spend twenty five euros on a remote control and it 's a basic remote control , then the then the money there must be money to spend on that kind of st you know , rechargeable units . industrial designer : with recharger . user interface : marketing : it should only cost twelve and a half euros , of course . aye ? project manager : yeah , but we would d ma we 'd do it in taiwan and so , it 's not gon na be that expen user interface : production . marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : uh i i think it 's a great idea . user interface : it should be possible . i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . project manager : s some kind of be i 've never seen that before , and you make it uh um be uh , you see it with uh the mo the mouses nowadays . user interface : to make a base or something ? marketing : yes . yes , definitely . yeah . industrial designer : yes , but is that handy ? project manager : well , i well it 's really ch you can recharge it , so you ha never have the battery problem . that 's one . user interface : it 's it 's it 's it 's project manager : and uh you can always find your remote control up user interface : it 's not the purpose to be handy , it 's industrial designer : but but remote controls remote controls nowadays can can last uh two years , three years , with with t two batteries . project manager : uh , okay . well , maybe yeah , you could when that 's when it 's too costly , you could probably skip the recharger , industrial designer : and then you project manager : but you will you do need uh also an uh , also you would need a battery in the the base unit as well , you know . does it makes it kinda </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee this morning . i have received apologies for absence from jack sargeant , and i 'm very pleased to welcome vikki howells , who is substituting for jack this morning . can i ask whether there are any declarations of interest from members , please ? no . okay . thank you . item 2 this morning is our last evidence session on the children ( abolition of defence of reasonable punishment ) ( wales ) bill , and i 'm really pleased to welcome back julie morgan am , deputy minister for health and social services ; karen cornish , who is deputy director of the children and families division ; and emma gammon , who is the lawyer working on the bill . so , thank you all for coming . if you 're happy , we 'll go straight into questions because we 've got lots of ground that we want to cover , and the first questions are from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : good morning . thank you , chair . good morning , deputy minister . of those individuals who responded to our written consultation in a personal capacity , nearly 70 per cent do not support this bill . we also heard a clear message from the parents we met last week who oppose this bill that , as parents , they understand clearly the difference between child abuse and a light smack from a loving parent . how would you like to respond to that ? julie morgan am : thank you very much , janet , for that question . i think i 'd like to start by saying that child abuse is not the issue that the bill is trying to address . what the bill is trying to do is prohibit all forms of physical punishment , and that is in order to protect children 's rights and to ensure that children have the same protection from physical punishment as adults . but i do understand that people have different views , and that 's why this process has been so important—for us to hear what your views are and what parents ' views are . i know that , often , people use different euphemisms really to make light of physical punishment . i 've heard expressions used such as a 'light smack ' or a 'loving smack ' or a 'tap ' , and really there can be different interpretations of what is a 'light smack ' , what is a 'loving smack ' , and that does n't really cover the issue of the frequency of such actions being taken . but i would say that , however mild it seems to be , the united nations committee on the rights of the child recognises that any physical punishment of children , however minor , is incompatible with their human rights , and why should a big person hit a little person ? that 's been the sort of mantra , really , that has taken me through supporting this legislation—that it just seems wrong to me that there is something in the law that could mean that there could be an excuse for that happening . i believe we should n't have anything in the law that defends the physical punishment of children , and i do n't think we should be defining acceptable ways of hitting or punishing children , because i think it does send a confused message to children . it says , 'it 's okay for me to hit you , but do n't you hit anybody else . ' i think it causes confusion . so , i 'm confident that updating the law will make it much clearer for parents and people working with children—and , of course , i 'm sure , as you 'll have heard from the evidence you 've taken , that people who work with children are overwhelmingly in support of this legislation , and the representative surveys that we 've carried out show support for the bill 's principles . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , deputy minister . last week , during the workshop , a few parents—predominantly all of them , actually—said that they use a gentle tap or smacking as part of a toolkit of ways to deal with challenging behaviour or , sometimes , for the safety of the child or , indeed , to carry out the parenting of a child . how do you intend to work with parents going forward , given the finite resources that social care and social services have ? i know from the responses we 've received to the consultation that parents themselves who have to parent 24 hours a day , seven days a week , they are really , on the scale of things , very upset about this . how do you intend to try and get your message across to those parents on removing what they consider to be part of their toolkit when raising children ? how do you intend to deal with that aspect ? julie morgan am : well , first of all , i want to say , as i 've said in most evidence sessions , that i completely accept that bringing up children is hard . it 's very difficult ; many of us have done it and we know how tough it can be . but we do n't think that there is any place for physical punishment in bringing up children . there 's a whole range of other ways that you can help parents bring up children , and advice you can give them of different methods to use . but , the clear message of this bill is that we do n't want any physical punishment ; we do n't think it 's the right thing to do , and we believe that we are supported by many people in that view . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . lynne neagle am : you 've got other questions , janet . janet finch-saunders am : okay . oh , yes . several consultation responses refer to statistics from sweden , which they say show that child-on-child violence actually increased by 1,791 per cent between 1984 and 2010 , following the ban on physical punishment in 1979 . what is your view on these figures and how can we be certain that this bill wo n't lead to other long-term negative outcomes in wales ? julie morgan am : well , i 'm aware of the debate surrounding the interpretation of the different statistics from sweden . what 's happened , really , in the academic research is that different academics are focused on different figures to support their views , and the methodological ways of doing it makes it quite difficult to have causation . i was very encouraged that a recent study of 88 countries concluded that if a country prohibits corporal punishment , the result is association with less youth violence , and this is one of the largest cross-national analyses of youth violence , with more than 400,000 participants . so , there is other evidence , very widespread evidence , which looks at a whole range of people , that is in contrast to the swedish evidence . but , evidence in this field is mixed and we have considered a wide range of research and reviews , but ultimately the decision is one that is based on our commitment to children 's rights . janet finch-saunders am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : do you want question 3 ? janet finch-saunders am : i can do it , yes . the bill 's explanatory memorandum says that 'there is no definitive evidence that `` reasonable '' physical punishment causes negative outcomes for children ' . however , we have heard from equal protection network cymru that international evidence could not be clearer and that they found the wales centre for public policy 's report , on which the explanatory memorandum is based , very confusing and very frustrating , and that it did n't tie in with what they knew . how would you respond to those viewpoints ? julie morgan am : we were very keen to get as balanced research as we possibly could , and we did n't want to just put forward views that we thought agreed with our point of view . so , we were trying to give a balanced point of view , but we did commission the wales centre for public policy to do an independent literature review and we 're honestly reporting to you what they said . but they did make it clear , again , which i think i 've said in previous evidence sessions , that all physical punishment , under all conditions , is potentially harmful to children . and certainly , there is no peer-reviewed research that says that physically punishing a child is going to improve things , has favourable outcomes . so , i understand what equal protection network cymru are saying , because there is a lot of very strong evidence , but we 're giving you the evidence that we had from the research that we commissioned . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 've got some questions now from suzy on implementation . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . i 've just got a couple of questions on this balance between the steps that will be needed to implement this bill and the impact that it 'll actually have . you 've probably heard in evidence that we 've received that there are still some concerns out there about how agencies might address malicious reporting ; some detail about how the public interest test might be applied further along the line ; what 's going to happen with out-of-hours provision from social services , and so on . there are still , from our perspective , quite a few things that are unknown about the effect on our public services in particular of the implementation of this bill . would you agree that perhaps we should know a little bit more about that before we proceed with supporting the bill ? julie morgan am : well , it 's very difficult , bringing in this legislation that has n't been done before . it 's very difficult to gauge the impact , and we 've covered that , i know , in previous discussions . but i think it 's very important to say that we are not creating a new offence . the bill is removing a defence to an offence of common assault . and i think it 's an interesting point to make that , in ireland , they introduced similar legislation through an amendment to a bill , and had no detailed preparation for bringing in the bill , and in fact there 's no evidence that this has caused any difficulties , and no significant negative impacts or increase in workload . but in any case , we have our implementation group , which is going to address many of these issues . this met on 14 may . that was the first meeting . you see , i think we do have to take a balance between assuming this bill is going to go through and what we can actually do . we ca n't presume that the assembly will accept this bill , so we have to be staged in what we do . but we had the first strategic implementation group on 14 may , and we had representatives from the police , the police and crime commissioners , the crown prosecution service , the association of directors of social services cymru , the association of directors of education in wales , the welsh local government association , the legal profession and the third sector . they 're all there , and they 're all very keen to make this legislation work and to look at the implications of it . i 'd just like to say how grateful i am for all those organisations giving their time and commitment . they 've set up four work streams , looking at parenting advice and support ; data collection , evaluation and monitoring ; operations , procedures and processes ; and out-of-court disposals and diversions . these groups will be taking forward this work and will be looking at many of those issues that you 've mentioned , and will also be updated on the progress of the awareness strategy that we will be bringing in . i 'm really confident that the legislation will be implemented in a very practical and workable way , because we do have the commitment of all these agencies , and there 's been a huge amount of preparation done in the welsh government to prepare for this in a way that , i have to say , has n't been done in some of the other countries—as i mentioned , in ireland . so , as much preparation as could be done is being done and has been done , but we really now see that the implementation group is taking forward all these issues , and obviously those agencies that are taking part in the implementation group are , on the whole , in support of the principles of this bill . suzy davies am : well , thank you for that , minister , but the way i look at this is that you 've already said that , if this bill passes—and it will pass ; it 's in enough manifestos to pass , so the question is what type of bill is going to pass—and if there is a gap of , let 's say , two years before anything is implemented , and the implementation group is doing the work that you 've described—and we 're very relieved to hear that—why is this bill being introduced now when that implementation group has n't really come up with a strategy that could help persuade people about what implementing this bill would look like in real life ? you 're asking the welsh public to take a bit of a chance on this . julie morgan am : i think we have , as far as possible , looked at international evidence where this legislation has been introduced . it 's different for different countries , so i know it 's difficult to get anything that 's absolutely linked . but i do n't agree that it 's a bit of a chance , really . i think we are preparing very well and very carefully . as the team who have been working on this have worked through the preparation for the bill , lots of issues have arisen as they 've done that , and so you have to do that , i think , alongside the actual practical implications with the groups that are coming together , and i think the point at which we 've done that is probably just about right , really . suzy davies am : okay . i hope this is n't going on to somebody else 's questions , but accepting what you say , would you then be open to accepting amendments to the face of the bill that would clarify the position for the welsh public on certain things that may be of concern to them , which have been fed through to us ? i 'm not suggesting anything specific , but— . julie morgan am : no , no . i mean , the position is that it is a very simple , one-clause bill . we want to keep it as simple as possible , but i 'm certainly prepared to consider any issues that come up , and i think that 's been the case all along . although our preference is to keep it simple . suzy davies am : i understand that . it 's just what 's going to work as a bit of law here , is n't it ? and then just finally from me , and you 've made the point to a degree , that , of course , not all countries are like wales . if we look at ireland , and new zealand 's the one we 've been looking at an awful lot , which are the most similar , their work has n't really been in place for that long , and one of the things that , i think , you 're going to need to be able persuade us of is that if the culture change to which we 've already referred is going in one way anyway , and if it continues to go in that direction , that this bill will have had a causal effect . i 'm trying to establish whether the culture change is going to happen anyway , whether or not we pass this legislation . julie morgan am : well , it does look as if a culture change is happening in any case , but the culture change will never really move , i think , as most of us want it , if there is legislation that does appear to condone the use of physical punishment , and having this reasonable punishment in law means that happens . so , i think , passing the legislation by itself will certainly not do everything— suzy davies am : no . and you 'll be aware that this is to go with it . i get that , but— julie morgan am : you 've got to have— . and i think the research has all shown you 've got to have an awareness campaign running along with it . that is shown . and in the other countries we 've looked at , i do n't think an awareness campaign was actually carried out because we are planning a really big awareness campaign because we think it 's absolutely fair to the welsh public , as you said , that they absolutely know what we 're doing and everybody 's aware of it . so , i think it is— . suzy davies am : okay . well , can i just finish— ? julie morgan am : i know the point you 're making . you 're saying that this would happen in any case , maybe . suzy davies am : i 'm suggesting it . julie morgan am : but if you 've got a bit of legislation there on the bill , it will always mean that for a very minority group of parents , they will feel that they have got the right to use physical punishment against their child , and i just think it 's something we should get rid of . i think it 's an anachronism and it 's something we should— . and i think wales has been very strong on children 's rights . we 've got rid of physical punishment in schools , child minders , regulated care settings . and , of course , the other point that i do n't think we say enough about is that it 's not just parents ; it 's people in loco parentis who are working in leisure centres or religious establishments or any of those unregulated settings who also have this defence . so , it 's last bit in the jigsaw , really , to have it quite clear that we want to treat our children with respect and dignity and i think this will move us towards that . suzy davies am : okay . well , it 's the argument you 've made before . i think what i was trying to get to is : how are we going to prove that this piece of legislation has worked effectively ? it 's about the data capture , i guess . what are you going to do to make sure that you acquire evidence in the future to show that this has worked , or potentially not worked ? i 'd be surprised if that was the case , but— . because , of course , that has an implication then on the resources for the various people you 'll be asking to collect the data . julie morgan am : yes . i think that 's very important because we need to know what is the effect of the legislation we 'll be bringing in . so , we will be having ongoing evaluation , we will be bringing in an independent body to evaluate . we have got ongoing monitoring and we 've got ongoing monitoring surveys looking at what are the views of the public . so , yes— suzy davies am : it 'll be directly linked to the bill , then , rather than that broad culture change . julie morgan am : the monitoring , asking the views of the public , is generally about issues related to the bill . the views of parents about whether this legislation— suzy davies am : sorry , i do n't want to labour this point . julie morgan am : and awareness . how aware they are . suzy davies am : basically , we need a question , 'has this bill stopped you smacking your child ? ' that 's the core question . so , phrase it differently , yes ? julie morgan am : yes . well , we are in the surveys asking how many people feel that they do smack their child , but this is any physical punishment , actually , not just smacking— suzy davies am : and it 's for the future , not for now . julie morgan am : —and how many , actually , are doing that . and it is consistently going down , as you said . suzy davies am : thank you . i do n't want to take it any further . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 're going to move on to explore some of the issues around social services now with questions from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . morning , minister . when the association of directors of social services cymru came in , they were saying to us that they would encourage people to report any instances , anything that they see around somebody smacking a child . that leads on to the question about whether in fact social services , then , would change their thresholds for intervention if there were more cases being referred to them . are you fairly confident , are you certain , that that would n't happen , or do you think there is a danger that social services might actually say , 'well , actually , if we 're getting all these referrals , we need to think again about when and if we intervene ' , and the thresholds could become a bit lower ? julie morgan am : well , as you know , social services already receive and investigate reports of children being physically punished—any sort of range of physical punishment—and they use standard procedures to determine how to proceed , but that 's done on a case-by-case basis ; it 's made on the individual case element . and , of course , there is a distinction between reasonable punishment and child neglect or abuse . and if this legislation is enacted , a significant proportion of the incidents of physical punishment will not require any response under the child protection procedures , and we do not expect the threshold of significant harm to change . and i know you took evidence from the adss , and i know sally jenkins gave evidence , who is one of the lead practitioners , and i understood she said : 'in terms of thresholds for children 's services , we would not be anticipating a huge number of referrals to us . there may be a small number of referrals that come through . what we know from other nations is that it will peak and then settle . we recognise that 's likely to happen . ' so , i think— dawn bowden am : so , it 's the threshold for intervention that 's the key , really , is n't it , rather than— ? julie morgan am : yes , they do n't see that changing . dawn bowden am : so , they do n't see that changing . julie morgan am : no , no . and we do n't see that changing . dawn bowden am : okay , that 's fine . the police , when they came in to give evidence , talked about the need for the multi-agency safeguarding hubs . and what we also heard is that it 's a bit inconsistent across the country . and i think you acknowledged that as well . do you think the implementation of the bill , and its effectiveness , is going to be dependent on us having consistently effective multi-agency safeguarding hubs right the way across the country ? julie morgan am : no . the effective implementation of the bill does not depend on mashs , as we call them for short , because bodies , social services , already work closely with the police on a day-to-day basis , really , and they have indicated their willingness to do so , and there are already well-established mechanisms in place that enable this joint working to take place . i know that the mashs are only in certain areas , and i know that it's— . i think they 're probably very good to have , actually , and very good to help the work , but it 's certainly not dependent on them . dawn bowden am : okay , but it would be something that you would be wanting to see developed , that eventually we would have these mashs right across the country ? julie morgan am : at the moment , there are three mashs in the south wales police force , and one pilot mash in the gwent police force , but they do n't operate in exactly the same way . and i know that other areas have considered having mashs , but have n't actually brought any in . and a multi-agency strategic group , which is led by south wales police , has been set up , and it will consider the effectiveness of mash arrangements in wales , so it 's very possible there will be more mashs , but i want to reiterate that we 're not dependent on mashs in order to have the close working . but they 're welcome—very welcome . dawn bowden am : yes , because the key point from the police 's point of view , i think , was that they provide a single point of contact , so it 's very simple , is n't it ? it 's a single point of contact , and i think they were quite concerned that having that single point of contact might actually reduce the level of unnecessary police prosecutions—well , the police do n't prosecute , but charges and so on . so , it was just a point that they were raising . julie morgan am : i think they are very effective and very much to be welcomed , but it 's certainly not essential . dawn bowden am : sorry , karen . karen cornish : i was just going to say that it 's probably worth saying that looking at how agencies work together will be one of the things , again , that will be looked at very carefully on the task and finish group , looking at processes and procedures . we 're very alert to the fact that there are different organisations , different services , and that bringing them together , working in as consistent a way as possible , is really , really important . as the minister has said , social services , the police and others are already committed to working together , and , actually , we just want to make sure that we develop those working practices in the best way possible , recognising that not every area will have a mash , and reiterating , again , what the deputy minister has said—that the effectiveness of the bill is not predicated on a mash in every area , but it is important that all those organisations do work together in a consistent and appropriate way . dawn bowden am : okay , that 's fine . thank you very much . the other response that we 've received is from social workers . and they 've talked about the fact that the social worker 's workload is already very stretched , and you 'll be aware of that , minister . and i think they were getting a little bit concerned about whether a whole raft of new cases are going to land on what is an already extremely heavy workload , and how effectively they could deal with that . would you say that those concerns , in terms of the impact of this bill , are unfounded , or are we just saying that this is an unknown quantity at this stage , and we 're going to have to wait and see ? julie morgan am : well , first of all , if i can just pay tribute to the work that social workers do . dawn bowden am : yes , absolutely . julie morgan am : because , obviously , they ’ re going to be essential to the successful implementation of this bill . i was a social worker myself , so i ’ m very happy to pay tribute to them . [ laughter . ] but they do do a hard job , which isn ’ t always recognised , i think , by the public . so , i do take this point very seriously , but , obviously , the professionals who have given evidence—many of them have said they don ’ t see there being a big rise of referrals . jane randall , national independent safeguarding board—i think she came to you—said : 'there 's no expectation that there 's going to be a huge increase in the number of referrals…i think it would be dealt with within their existing resources . ' i mean , there may be an increase in reporting of incidents , initially , maybe from individuals in the community and organisations such as schools . and i think it could have an impact on the initial stages of social services activity , which i think others—i think sally jenkins said that maybe there ’ d be an increase , a small increase , at the beginning . but as we expect the awareness raising and the ongoing support that we ’ ll be giving to parents—we do feel that the incidents of physical punishment will be falling over time . and we don ’ t really see that there will be an increase . but i know that social workers are stretched , and are hard-pressed—and i think that was some of the evidence given to you by the british association of social workers . but i think it ’ s important to remember that they are also very strongly in support of us carrying out this legislation . but it is important to look at the realities and the practicalities . so , we ’ re going to work very closely with social services—obviously , key members of our implementation group—and we will collect relevant data for a period before the actual implementation , in order to get a baseline . we want a baseline , and we are working with a small number of social services to try to get the baseline of where it is , and to see what happens when the bill is implemented . the evidence from other countries is that they certainly have not been overwhelmed . there have been reports in new zealand that they have not been overwhelmed , and i mentioned ireland earlier . so , i don ’ t think , really , we have to fear that social services would be overwhelmed , but we must be prepared , and we must get this data and monitor it closely . dawn bowden am : keep it monitored . and i guess things will level out in due course . and social services clearly having to make judgments every day—they will be making those judgments quite quickly and turning them around . the children and family court advisory and support service , when they spoke to us , also had—there was a similar kind of concern raised . they did say that they felt that they probably did have adequate resources to support the bill . but do you think there is any danger at all that it could divert cafcass staff , if we have a high volume of reporting , particularly given that we ’ ve got a 26-week limit in which to deal with those cases ? is that something that causes you any concern at this stage ? julie morgan am : well , cafcass are confident that they can deal with the cases that they have . as you know , there 's been a big increase in the numbers that cafcass is dealing with already , and they have managed to very successfully cope with the demand . so , i 've got every confidence that they will be able to cope with it . dawn bowden am : because they were basically just saying that it 's unpredictable at this stage , were n't they , so— ? julie morgan am : yes . it is unpredictable . our best views are that it will not— . dawn bowden am : yes , because they were talking about the fact that no assessment had been made about the risk of malicious reporting . we talked about that in a number of sessions with the police and so on . so , i think their biggest concern was more about the rise in looked-after children and the impact on that in terms of their workload , and it was just a question of whether this would potentially divert any resources , i guess . julie morgan am : i think , in terms of the malicious reporting , obviously that is something that happens a lot now and it is is likely that , perhaps— . i think they felt that , in existing cases , this might be another element that should be brought in , but they seemed , in my discussions , fairly confident . i know they appeared before the committee , and they are coping very well . but , obviously , another area we are very concerned about is the rise in the number of looked-after children , and that 's somewhere we want to try to do what we can to bring that down . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . just before suzy comes in with a supplementary—cafcass did n't come to the committee , they 've submitted— julie morgan am : they sent a letter—that 's right . yes , sorry about that . suzy davies am : just very quickly , because i do n't want to spend a lot of time on this : is n't it going to be true that any increase in workload for social services or schools or whoever is going to depend on reporting rising ? where do you see the likely rise in reporting taking place ? will it be members of the public or is it going to be professionals who feel that this is something that they ca n't ignore from now on ? julie morgan am : well , i think it would be mixed . i do n't have any view or where it particularly would come from , because if there are any reports that go into agencies now about children being physically punished in any way—i think they investigate those already now . but i suppose members of the public might report if they see any physical punishment going on . they would be made much more aware , we hope , by the legislation—so , that may happen . but i think , in schools , if there is physical punishment reported by a child , the schools would report it in any case . but i think it 's likely that there will be a small rise . suzy davies am : i was just curious about where you thought the main source would be— julie morgan am : i ca n't really be definitive about that . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : okay . the next questions are from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : the bill , in essence , is a simple one , of course , is it not ? but what it does is provide a useful discussion on what good parenting is and what discipline methods are the most effective—that is , discipline methods that parents can use rather than physical punishment . do you think , therefore , that there 's a need to invest much more in programmes to do with parenting and in support services for families in terms of parenting , and that as part of an early intervention strategy that 's more co-ordinated and robust than what we have at present ? julie morgan am : well , we are developing the bill as part of a much wider package of support for children and their parents , which , of course , is already in place . this obviously includes the 'parenting . give it time ' campaign , which aims to help parents do the best job that they can by providing positive tips on parenting and information . and we 're already preparing now to update that , because , of course , that only goes up to age 7 and deals with issues about how you cope with your kids if they 're difficult at meal times and if they have tantrums . it is very well used by parents . but , of course , this legislation will go up to 18 years old , and so the issues may be very different . so , we 're already starting to prepare to update that 'parenting . give it time ' campaign . and then , obviously , there 's the universal services that give access to help and to promote positive parenting , delivered by local government , health , education , social services , social justice and the third sector . we will be encouraging all those agencies that provide that universal service to help support parents and to pass on this information . then , there will be the more targeted supports , such as flying start and families first , which offer help and advice . but what i 've done is i 've asked the officials to carry out a mapping exercise to see where the support is and where the gaps are or opportunities to do more , particularly around information and advice on positive alternatives to physical punishment , but also more widely . so , we are looking to see where the gaps are . i think parents do tend to use information and try to get help in many different ways . a very large number , actually , do use the internet . i was surprised , actually , that so many used the internet to get information . others ask their mothers , their families , their friends , and go to agencies . it 's such a wide range that we need that mapping exercise and we need to see where we need to put in more support . sian gwenllian am : i 'm pleased that you 're going to conduct that exercise , because the evidence that we 've received from a number of different directions is that there is n't enough investment in reality in the support services in the early years , and that there is a real need for the focus within government go back to early intervention and to have a much more co-ordinated strategy . you 've mentioned a number of agencies working on different elements , perhaps , but perhaps there 's a need to bring them all together . you talk about the 'parenting . give it time ' campaign , but i think it 's an online campaign effectively , and flying start—yes , people who attend those courses find them useful , but , of course , it 's not available across wales and it 's not available to every parent . there is a scheme that is available through schools in gwynedd—perhaps you are aware of it—incredible years , with professor judy hutchings , who has been working on this for a number of years now , very successfully , where schools , parents and the children work together on parenting methods that are positive . i wonder if it 's time to think about expanding that as part of an early intervention strategy across wales . perhaps you ca n't give a specific answer today , but may i ask you to take a look at that ? what concerns me is that the bill is going through but there 's not enough work relating to education and having people 's support for different methods , more positive methods , in my opinion , of parenting . there 's a real need to move and to invest in that area and perhaps move money towards that work . julie morgan am : well , certainly , i think that is the purpose of the mapping exercise , to see what is successful , where things need to be expanded , and that 's what we 're going to consider . incredible years—i know it 's very successful ; i am aware of that programme . i think there are patches all over wales of really good progress , but , certainly , i 'm sure we need to give more support to parents in the early years , and i think they 're only too glad to have it as well . children are very receptive at that age and early intervention is the key to many of the issues that we have to deal with later on . sian gwenllian am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 're going to return to some of the parenting issues later , but in the meantime we 've got questions from hefin david . hefin david am : just to take it on the next step from what siân gwenllian was asking about—in schools , are teachers ready for this legislation ? julie morgan am : on our implementation group , the education sector is represented . they 've come to the first meeting of the implementation group . so , they 're going to be fully involved in the preparation . obviously , corporal punishment was banned in schools a long time ago , and i think the education sector is very supportive of this move . but in terms of the awareness for teachers to be ready for it—obviously , the awareness campaign has got to be aimed at professionals in every field and certainly aimed at teachers . hefin david am : so , if i was a teacher in an individual school , what kind of preparation do you think i should expect ? julie morgan am : you know this better than me , having been more in the education field than me , but i think teachers are updated on different parts of childcare legislation now , and have in-service training days and training courses . and , certainly , perhaps this would be part of that—part of the training that teachers get . this would have to be incorporated into that . hefin david am : one of the things that the national association of head teachers told us was that they would n't want the cost of that kind of training to come from core budgets . would you agree with that ? julie morgan am : well , i would have thought this sort of measure would be incorporated into the training they were using already , actually . i wouldn't have seen it would need something completely separate . hefin david am : so , you think it should come from the core budget that they use for training ? julie morgan am : i think it could be incorporated in what they 're already doing . hefin david am : okay . and do you think that would be a significant additional cost or do you think that that would be minimal ? julie morgan am : i would have thought it would be minimal . they already have training courses about childcare issues , and this would be something that would be absorbed into that . hefin david am : you mentioned the implementation group and the fact that educators are represented on it . can you just be a bit clearer about how they are represented again ? i 'm not sure i caught that . julie morgan am : do you want to , karen , because you were at the group ? karen cornish : yes . so , education are represented on it through the association of directors of education in wales , and they have a representative on the strategic implementation group , and we are working with them to understand who else will be on the task and finish groups that we 're setting up that the minister 's already talked about . and we 've also had conversations with all of the trade unions . i personally went and spoke to them earlier in the year when the bill was being introduced , received their feedback and have said that i will go back and speak with them . hefin david am : okay . the things that are being raised so far—would you say they 're reflective of the concerns that the naht rose about , for example , funding of training ? are those kinds of issues raised ? the practical implications of introducing this bill—are they raised ? if not , what other issues might be raised ? karen cornish : so , i think that the main concerns that you 've already heard as a committee are similar concerns to those that have been raised previously . so , there 's not anything in addition to the things that we have discussed , either with the trade unions or through the implementation group , or during the consultation period . and , as the minister said , for the majority of these sort of things , teachers , education and other workforces already have procedures in place , because this comes under a safeguarding issue at one level . there are procedures and processes that are already there that they all follow . the ask will be based around those safeguarding procedures and , therefore , education and other services update their processes and procedures on a regular basis as a matter of course when any issues like this are addressed . there 's a wider context here . minister , i do n't know whether you wanted to say anything about the well-being and the— julie morgan am : yes . one of the things that i think this committee has been involved in is we want to have a whole-school approach . we want mental health and well-being to be part of the way that the whole school operates , and the culture and how schools engage with pupils and parents . and we want to create that atmosphere where there 's no wrong door , where children can bring up any of the concerns that they have with any member of the school staff that they trust . and , obviously , the school staff is wider than the teachers . and so , i think the creation of that sort of atmosphere is very important in taking forward this issue . hefin david am : i appreciate that . i think the bill , though , introduces a very specific set of changes that— julie morgan am : it removes the defence ; that 's all the bill does . hefin david am : but should a parent witness , now , smacking , then it will require a different kind of approach—sorry , if a teacher were to witness smacking , it would require a different kind of approach , perhaps , to existing approaches . there should n't , therefore , be any surprise amongst teachers in how to deal with these things when the bill comes in . i suppose the question i 'm asking is : can we be assured that nothing you 've said today in this meeting , in this committee , should be a surprise to teachers and trade unions , because that would already have been communicated through the bill implementation group ? julie morgan am : yes , well , karen has already said about the meetings that she 's had with the unions and they are present on the implementation group , but a lot of these things happen already . they already have to make decisions about physical punishment they may be told about by children , for example—probably more likely than actually witnessing anything . and they already have to make decisions on those sorts of issues , so i see this as being incorporated in with that . hefin david am : okay . with regard to health and the communication of this to parents , we 've heard about the healthy child wales programme , and the fact that it has the opportunity to play a role in raising parents ' awareness . do you think that 's the case ? julie morgan am : i think the healthy child wales programme and the role of the health visitor is absolutely crucial , because , obviously , the health visitor is there right at the beginning . it 's a universal service , and so there will be great opportunity for them to promote positive parenting in a much stronger way than they 're able to do at the moment , because the fact that you have this defence does mean that the professionals are n't able to make it as clear as they want to make it that positive parenting is the way that they 'd like families to go . so , i think this will be a great advantage to health visitors , and , obviously , they support it strongly , because they 're trying to encourage parents not to use physical punishment now , but with their hands slightly tied behind their back , because the defence does exist . hefin david am : that 's great , that 's a good thing , but the concern we 've got is that half the parents across wales are not accessing the healthy child wales programme , and in my community , within the aneurin bevan health board area , 80 per cent of parents are n't accessing the healthy child wales programme . so , are there concerns that , if you rely too much on that process for communication , then parents , particularly in the early years , will be left out ? julie morgan am : we 've got to rely on a range of ways of reaching parents , and i think that there are other times when there is a much higher ratio of children and families seen . but i think we 've had that discussion with the mapping exercise that we 've already mentioned , that we 're going to identify where there are gaps or where we can do more , and that 's where we will identify this . karen cornish : i think as well that that figure relates to one contact point across the whole of the healthy child wales programme , not the healthy child wales programme as a whole . maybe we could come back with some further information about the contacts , because i'm— . that figure— lynne neagle am : the percentage relates to the contact at age three and a half , but that is exactly the kind of age when you 'd expect more children to— . if they were going to be smacked , it would be at that sort of age , would n't it , really ? so , that is a concern for the committee , really , in terms of coverage . karen cornish : i can appreciate that , although i would— . midwives , health visitors and others working with families would actually be giving those messages , core messages , about setting boundaries , managing behaviour , discipline , positive parenting , right from the very beginning . so , reliance on that single point of contact at that one age point is not necessarily the most appropriate , because i think there 's a period from birth through to , actually , later as well , when those key health messages , those key messages around positive parenting , are and can be given . as the minister said , we will be mapping a lot of this , but we can give you some more advice on that , if that would be helpful , about the types of messages that are given during that period of time . lynne neagle am : yes , i think that would be helpful . i 've got some supplementaries on this , because i think the committee is concerned that at a key opportunity at age three and a half , a big chunk of families are n't having that contact that they should expect with their health visitor , really . suzy , then siân . suzy davies am : thank you . it 's also a time in their child 's life when they 're likely to be spending time not with their parents , in school or early years . and i just wanted a bit of clarification from you , minister , on what you were saying to hefin david about training here . i got the sense you thought this could just be slipped in as a paragraph in existing guidance , but i 'm not clear about what happens to a teacher who is told by a child that they 've been smacked , and they decide that they 're not going to report that—will they get into trouble over that ? if it 's part of a bigger picture that a teacher should have picked up , that 's different , but , if a child tells a teacher , 'oh , mammy smacked me because i did such and such ' , is that teacher going to get into trouble if they do n't report that to the police ? julie morgan am : if that happens now , the teacher is expected to report that now . i think they usually call in social services . suzy davies am : oh , it goes to social services . but that clarity is needed as well . julie morgan am : yes . that is what happens now , so would you expect a teacher to do it , yes . suzy davies am : okay . all right , thank you . sian gwenllian am : yes , i 'm just interested to hear a bit more about the mapping exercise that you 've referred to , which i think is really important , but it is going to show up a lot of gaps geographically , but also in service provision for different groups of families . it 's all very well doing a mapping exercise , but what is the purpose of that , and how are you going to ensure that those gaps do n't exist in future ? maybe we could have a note about what the timetable is for this exercise , and more in-depth understanding perhaps about what your intentions are , and how you intend to take it forward once you 've done the mapping exercise . julie morgan am : yes . we absolutely acknowledge that there is a lot more work to be done , and we know that we have to work hard at this to reach every family . obviously , the information that we 've had about the healthy child wales , the health boards will be monitoring that information and will be— . i think they 're going to establish a project board to consider the themes that are coming out from the healthy child wales , and so that will be certainly addressed there . and we will absolutely acknowledge that we expect that there will be work to be done . sian gwenllian am : and there will be investment needed , obviously , to fill in those gaps , which means a significant shift in the way government now looks at its budget , and a shift towards that early prevention . julie morgan am : i think we all agree that early prevention is the key for happy , healthy children , and so we 'll certainly consider everything that arises . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've got some questions now on the police and the crown prosecution service from suzy . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . you 've said repeatedly that the intention of this bill is n't to criminalise parents , and i believe that that 's not your intention . so , what i 'm interested in hearing about is how you—or the work that you 've done to satisfy yourself that the huge majority of parents that are going to be caught up in the change of this act wo n't result in parents getting anywhere near the cps , for example . obviously , there are going to be occasions where there are recidivists who keep smacking despite perhaps earlier warnings , or families get identified as doing something far more serious with their children than this , and i 'm not talking about those—i 'm talking about the people who are currently protected , if i can put it like that . i 'm very interested in hearing what you 've got to say about out-of-court disposals and pre being charged activity . i wonder if you can tell us a little bit about the assessment and work that you 've done in that area . julie morgan am : right . well , there are a number of out-of-court disposals that the police can use , because the police want to respond in a positive and proportionate way . the use of out-of-court disposals is actually a non-devolved responsibility , but we 'll be working— suzy davies am : that 's what i wanted to ask you about . julie morgan am : yes , they are non-devolved , but we will be working with the home office , the ministry of justice , the cps , the police and the police and crime commissioners to consider suitable interventions . and one of the main areas of focus of the national police chiefs ' council 's national strategy is to reduce the current six disposal options to just two . and that 's going to be conditional caution and community resolution , and the four welsh police forces are going to be moving towards this two-tier approach , which they believe will make for greater consistency . so , what we 're doing is we are exploring , with the police liaison unit , how we can develop a suitable diversion scheme , with a focus on advice and support on positive alternatives to physical punishment , and how we can tie that into the wider activity . and , obviously , it all depends on the individual circumstances of the case , because the other thing we 're going to look at is the individual . but it 's possible then we could get a diversion scheme provided through a community resolution order ; it could be potentially be given instead of a caution . and so that would be—you know , parents could be referred to a scheme . so , that 's what we 're discussing with the police liaison unit at the moment . suzy davies am : thank you for confirming that , but even that is quite far down the process from the day that a smack is reported , and , as you know , particularly as soon as the police get involved , and even social services , if a record is made of even a complaint—even if that complaint goes no further , even if you do n't get anywhere near an arrest , shall we say , that is logged in certain parts of the system and will need to be revealed in certain circumstances . i 'm thinking of the enhanced disclosure and barring service check in particular , but there are other instances as well . have you done any impact assessment on that , because that is a—we 're talking about a situation where there 's a massive impact , potentially , on an adult , when there have been no grounds at all to worry that a child 's rights have been infringed , for example ? it will happen in malicious reporting , but it could happen in reporting where an apparent battery has taken place , but it turns out to have been something completely different—you know , pushing a child 's hand away , that sort of thing . the police are not going to want to take that any further at all , but it 's on their records . how are you going to protect parents in those circumstances , within our legislative competence ? julie morgan am : well , the issue of non-conviction data obviously does n't just apply to this bill we 're bringing in ; it applies to everything . so , it 's something that you can look at in a general sense—that the police can visit and there 's no further action , but that could be for anything— suzy davies am : but this is very sensitive , this area . julie morgan am : —and it 's still logged . but , obviously , this does have an issue in terms of , particularly , the dbs checks and if you needed an enhanced certificate , if you wanted to be a teacher , a childcare worker , or those sorts of occupations . but , when disclosing information held locally , the police follow the quality assurance framework , and information must pass certain tests , which are related to considerations of relevance , substantiality and proportionality , and considerations of the safety aspects as well of disclosing information . and the police must record their thought process , their rationale , explaining how and why they reached all of their conclusions and their decisions . and this information is then assessed by the chief officer to determine whether it 's reasonable to believe that it 's relevant , and whether , in their opinion , it ought to be disclosed . information should only be disclosed if it meets both of those requirements . so— suzy davies am : is that in all jobs , though , because my understanding is that there are certain professions where that exemption doesn ’ t apply , and they ’ re likely to be the ones that are really relevant to the removal of the defence ? so , i ’ m not talking about , i do n't know , people who might work as volunteers ; i ’ m literally talking about teachers and doctors , maybe dentists . julie morgan am : well , we have done some work on this , haven ’ t we ? do you want to say about that , karen ? karen cornish : yes . so , it does apply across all professions , and we have been in discussion with the dbs about when and how and why information would be released , and also how often . and our understanding at this moment in time is that this type of information is released only in a very , very small number of cases . i think we ’ re talking less than 1 per cent of cases— suzy davies am : one per cent of what figure though ? karen cornish : —in the last year . it ’ s about 1 per cent of 2,500 , something like that . i haven ’ t got the exact figures with me . suzy davies am : okay , but it helps us to understand the general amount— karen cornish : so , it ’ s about two , three , four cases in a year where this type of information is disclosed . it ’ s information that , obviously , we have got , but i think it ’ s really important to understand that this is a really rigorous process that the police and the dbs have in place . they consider everything in the round before they would even consider actually releasing any information that 's non-conviction information in relation to employment . suzy davies am : but this is a new consideration for them . they have n't tested their ability to get their judgment right on this one yet . are you concerned that , in order to be on the safe side , if i can put it like that , there 's an increased likelihood of disclosure—which actually might disappear over time , because there 's an opportunity to exercise judgment more frequently and get the balance right ? karen cornish : i think they do have to consider non-conviction information now and some of that non-conviction information may be in relation to physical punishment of a child . i think you 've received evidence from the police saying that there are 18,000 or so incidents in one police force area alone , where information is potentially on their records , and yet we understand that a very , very small proportion of non-conviction information is released to an employer during a recruitment process . so , our expectation , based on that information , would be that it would remain at a very low level . suzy davies am : okay . and just to finish off on this one : we do n't have legislative competence in this particular area , so we are relying on goodwill and the conversations that you have , which i 'm sure are very productive . what will happen if we start getting instances where perhaps that judgment has n't been exercised correctly ? there 's nothing , as a government , you can do to challenge that particularly . julie morgan am : i can only emphasise the very close working relationships we 've got and i think will continue to build as we introduce this legislation . we 've got it all set up and it 's been very productive so far . suzy davies am : well , i appreciate that . thank you . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you , suzy . just before we move on , could i ask , then— ? maybe the committee would be grateful for a note providing an update on the latest work that the government has done on out-of-court disposals , including estimated costs . we 'd also appreciate a note on the welsh government 's discussions with the dbs and the figures that karen just referred to , if that 's okay , please . thank you . the next questions are from hefin on resources . hefin david am : when you first appeared before the committee at the beginning of stage 1 , i was n't hugely reassured by the evidence you gave on the resource implications of the bill . it seems to be relying , to a great extent , on the limited number of reporting of cases that 's likely to happen , as we 've seen in the evidence we 've received . that 's largely been recognised by the stakeholders who 've given evidence , but is n't there still the potential for a degree of unknown costs to come into this , and what planning have you done for those unknown costs—those unforeseen costs—that might occur ? julie morgan am : i feel that— . you 're right that there always could be unknown costs , but we are doing our very best to prepare to cover all eventualities that we can anticipate . for example , i 've committed to fund the high-intensity awareness-raising campaign , and committed to carry out a mapping exercise to establish whether there are any gaps in the parenting support . we know that evidence from other countries does show that , if we bring in this legislation and raise awareness , it does change people 's attitudes , so there may , in the long term , be a saving if we do that . but we are committed to working with organisations to put in place arrangements so that we 're able to collect the data so that we know what the impact is . but i just have to repeat that all our evidence , looking at other countries , is that there is n't a huge increase in the workload . hefin david am : no . i think you can make the argument for precedent elsewhere , but you can also say that every country has a different culture and approach to how it raises children , and therefore there 'll be a number of differences as well . the explanatory memorandum raises some specific cases . it talks about unknown costs in relation to social services as a result of a potential increasing referrals ; family courts and cafcass cymru as a result of a potential increase in allegations , which we talked about ; the cps and a higher volume of requests for charging advice from the police ; and the review of training and guidance offered by organisations involved in the safeguarding of children . all those things we 've talked around , but what would be reassuring for the committee is , perhaps , if you could give us a broad figure , which the government would say , 'we 'll need to set this number aside in order to be prepared for the implementation of this bill . ' would you be willing to present that at some point during the passage of the bill ? julie morgan am : i think we have to rely on what the people who run those organisations are telling us . certainly , the cps say that they can cope . cafcass say that they can cope . and it is very difficult to anticipate what impact there would be on social services . the people who are managing social services say they do n't anticipate a big impact . i think the other important thing to recognise is that this area of work is already dealt with by all these people . so , the cps is already involved in changing its guidance all the time , so it 's not going to be much of an impact for them to actually have to do that over this issue . social services are already dealing with calls and referrals about the physical punishment of children already , including reasonable punishment . and so it 's not a new category of work . i accept that we 're working in a situation where there 's a general pressure on public services , but i think this area that we 're legislating on here is part of what everybody 's doing already . and so i do n't see it as such a big thing in terms of impact . hefin david am : that 's a perfectly reasonable answer , but then what about providing a ballpark figure for a kind unforeseen fund that you might set aside ? julie morgan am : i do n't think it 's possible to do that . we have to measure it as we go along . we 've got to get the data . the data will show— . we 've got to have baseline data to begin with , and that 's what 's so difficult to get , because we ca n't get that from other countries . only new zealand recorded any incidents before they actually brought in the legislation , and they did that for three months beforehand . that 's why we 've been looking at new zealand a lot of the time , just to make predictions . but we 've got to rely on the data . one of these sub-groups is looking at data , so that sub-group should be very productive , i think . and then we will be actually able to see what happens . but i do n't think we can respond to that . hefin david am : okay , that 's fine . and the last question , with regard to resourcing , just to understand the process of how this ties into the wider budgeting—did you and your officials sit down with the finance minister and the first minister 's officials to discuss the costing of this ? i imagine so . what was the nature of that kind of discussion ? julie morgan am : some of the costings are decided . for example , the advertising , the awareness-raising campaign—that 's £2.2 million over six years . so the decision has been made about that . i do n't know if there were further discussions right at the beginning of this process . karen cornish : there have been discussions . the discussions tend to be positive . we ca n't really say any more beyond that at this moment in time . hefin david am : okay . and who were the discussions with ? karen cornish : there has been an in-the-round discussion before the bill was introduced , at which the first minister and the finance minister and others were present . hefin david am : okay . and i imagine it 's gone to cabinet for discussion . karen cornish : the consultation and then the bill going forward has been discussed by cabinet , and gone through cabinet processes , as you would expect . hefin david am : so , are we able to say that the government as a whole is satisfied that there is n't going to be a huge impact on resource as a result of the introduction of this bill ? karen cornish : i think what you can say is that the government are satisfied that they are supportive of the bill and have put the bill forward . i think you can say that . hefin david am : okay . did you want to come in ? lynne neagle am : yes . are you satisfied that that amount of money—£2.5 million over five years [ correction : £2.2 million over six years ] —is going to be enough ? from memory , with the organ donation bill , the amount was something in the region of around £7 million that was set aside , i think . or maybe i 'm misremembering that , but— karen cornish : i think it was about £4 million— lynne neagle am : £4 million— karen cornish : something like that . lynne neagle am : so , there 's a disparity , then . that was a few years ago . you 've got to reach a lot of people , have n't you , with this , including some pretty hard-to-reach groups as well . are you confident that amount of money is going to be enough ? karen cornish : we are as confident as we can be at this moment in time . we are obviously going to be working with focus groups and others to look at what sorts of messaging there will need to be . but in terms of the initial stages of the awareness campaign , we are , as i say , as confident as we can be , based on what we know . lynne neagle am : okay . hefin , on human rights . hefin david am : i just wanted to ask a very specific question on human rights , because , you know , when it comes to appeals , there are a variety of articles under the european convention on human rights that might be used with regard to a challenge to the law as enacted . so , i 'll ask you the question very directly . for the purpose of the record , can you outline to us the assessment you 've made in preparation for this bill in relation to the balancing of relevant articles of the european convention on human rights , including but not limited to article 8 on the respect for private life ; article 9 , freedom of conscience and religion ; article 3 , the right to protection from torture and inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment ; and article 14 , protection from discrimination ? julie morgan am : thank you very much . we have given a great deal of thought , as you can imagine , to the human rights considerations as set out in our impact assessments , and it 's ultimately a question how we find a balance between the rights of children as well as parents , who both enjoy rights under the european convention on human rights . so , article 3 is the prohibition of torture : 'no one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . ' in ensuring that children are protected from physical punishment in the same way as adults , the bill is following that requirement of article 3 , and the positive obligations on states to protect individuals from ill treatment or punishment that is contrary to article 3 . and then , in terms of article 8 , right to respect for private and family life , 'everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life , his home and his correspondence . ' some of those who are opposed to the prohibition of physical punishment have cited article 8 , private and family life , and also cited article 9 , freedom of thought , conscience and religion , as potentially protecting the right for parents to decide how best to punish their children , including the use of physical punishment . that is used as an argument by those who are opposed to stopping physical punishment . but these rights are not absolute , and action can therefore be taken that interferes with them , provided the interference is justified . it 's the government 's view that the bill 's provisions are necessary in order to protect the rights and freedom of children . we are looking here from the point of view of children . the bill 's provisions are regarded as proportionate measures , and given the fundamental importance of protecting children from inhumane or degrading punishment or other ill treatment , we do consider that we have balanced the rights in a proportionate way . and then , article 10 , freedom of expression , and article 14 , prohibition of discrimination—these rights are not absolute and action can be taken , therefore , that interferes with them , providing the interference is justified . we do n't think it 's clear that article 10 and 14 rights are being interfered with , but even if they are , we consider we can justify the interference in order to protect the rights and freedoms of children . i do n't know , emma , whether you wanted to add anything to any of that . emma gammon : only that we set out— . i think it 's the equality impact assessment that sets out the positive and negative impacts of the proposal and the balancing of the rights enjoyed by both parents and children . lynne neagle am : thank you . there are some questions from vikki on awareness raising . can i ask for concise questions please ? vikki howells am : thank you , chair . so , last week , the welsh government published its baseline survey of public attitudes to physical punishment of children , and that showed us that 58 per cent of the public already thought the law did not allow parents to smack their children . you could look at this two ways . you could think glass half full , which suggests that we do n't have many people to try and convince of that . but on the flipside of that , would you suggest , perhaps , that that data shows there is a challenge faced by the welsh government to make sure the public understand the proposed legislation , given that more than half of the population , according to those statistics , have a complete misunderstanding of the current law ? julie morgan am : certainly , i think that finding is reflected in people i speak to who do think that the law does not allow parents to hit their children . i mean , i 'm personally very reassured that 58 per cent of the public think the law does n't allow that to happen because i think , well , they 're not hitting their children , so we 're over 50 per cent of where we want to get . so , i think that is a good thing , but it does highlight the fact that the legislation , as it is , is confused . i think it makes a very good case for saying that we do need to simplify this legislation . we need much greater clarity in the law for professionals who are working and trying to help parents , and for parents themselves . so , i think that this is a case for saying that it 's very important that we carry out this legislation to make it all much clearer . but i am pleased that 58 per cent of the public think the law has already changed . vikki howells am : one of the most consistent messages that this committee has heard is that the proposed law wo n't work unless there 's a significant campaign to raise awareness with members of the public . we know that sweden went to considerable lengths to publicise the change in the law there , and i can remember attending a cross-party group , chaired by yourself , deputy minister , where we heard evidence from ireland to the same effect , as well—the necessity of the public awareness campaign . you already said that a duty on the face of the bill to raise awareness is not necessary , but then , in your answer to suzy davies , you said you would consider putting some things on the face of the bill . so , can you explain to us your key arguments surrounding this issue ? julie morgan am : i absolutely agree that it 's essential that we do have a big awareness campaign , because all the research we 've had shows , in fact , that if you do n't have the awareness campaign , the legislation wo n't be as effective . so , we need a joint effort ; i 'm totally committed to doing that . i 've said it publicly here , and i 'm saying it again . i do n't think it 's absolutely necessary to have it on the face of the bill , but as i said to suzy , i 'm prepared to consider anything the committee is bringing forward because i 'm very keen for this bill to progress through this process and to learn from it . so , i 'm saying that i 'm prepared to consider it . vikki howells am : thank you , that 's very useful . and finally , new zealand is an oft-cited example , mentioned in the explanatory memorandum as well . so , we know new zealand prohibited physical punishment in 2007 , but yet in a non-binding referendum two years later , 87.5 per cent of voters voted 'no ' in response to the question , 'should a smack , as part of good parental correction , be a criminal offence in new zealand ? ' on what basis , then , are you confident that this sort of polarisation wo n't happen in wales , especially considering the current political climate there is out there ? julie morgan am : well , what we trying to do is we 're trying to take this forward in as consensual a way as we possibly can . we 're very keen that we listen to the views of everybody . all those people who do n't agree with us , who are a minority , it seems , we want to hear what they 've got to say , taking very seriously all the points that are raised here by the committee . i have n't seen any sign of any polarisation in any way that i would be concerned about , because , certainly , the people who do oppose the bill , i 've met with them , i know they 've given evidence to your committee and the views of parents have been taken into account . we completely accept that we want to listen to the views of people who do n't agree . i hope that they then , if the bill does become law , will then accept and respect the democratic process . so , i do n't feel concerned , really , about that . lynne neagle am : janet , a brief supplementary . janet finch-saunders am : i started at the very beginning , deputy minister , with the fact that there 's an overwhelming majority of parents—those who are naturally charged with raising their children—against this bill . so , there is a polarisation . we 've gone out to survey on it and the overwhelming response from parents is that they do not support this bill . and i think that needs to be put on the record . julie morgan am : i think that our representative surveys that we 've carried out do show considerable support for the bill— janet finch-saunders am : but not from parents . julie morgan am : —particularly from parents with young children under seven . that 's where the support does lie . and it 's older people who are much less likely to support the legislation , and i think it 's all linked to what many of us were used to , what happened in our childhoods , when it was accepted and it was part of the time that this was what you did . but we have moved on now and we 're in a different era . so , i think many older people , because they smacked their children or were smacked themselves , have felt a degree of resistance , perhaps , to the bill . but as i say , i think times have changed . we want to respect children 's rights and what happened in the past is in the past now , and we want to have a new era for respecting children 's human rights and dignity . and i think i 'll go back to what i said : i do n't see that children 's rights to dignity is going to happen if a big person is able to hit a small person . lynne neagle am : just to clarify , janet 's referring to the committee 's consultation and the percentage of responses that we 've had . sian gwenllian am : yes , we had a specific section , but because time is moving quite fast , perhaps you could give us a note in response . some witnesses saw a risk that the bill could have a disproportionate impact on specific groups—women , because they are the main carers , minority ethnic groups and very young children . so , if it would be possible for us to receive a note as to whether you agree that this will have a disproportionate impact upon them , and if so , what would be the mitigating measures you would take . but , specifically , we have heard from several witnesses and the equality impact assessment of the bill does acknowledge that a low income is a risk factor in the use of physical punishment and that this could have a negative impact specifically on this group of parents . now , we know that flying start is available to try to mitigate that to some degree , but of course not all low-income families live within a flying start area , so what mitigating work will you be undertaking in that regard ? julie morgan am : yes . we are aware of the issue of reaching out to certain groups . we are running focus groups where we will be taking the different groups into account , and we will work with different groups , communities and organisations to make sure that they are aware of the change in the law , and we will—i know you want to move on—but we will write to you about anything more specific . lynne neagle am : just finally from me , then , you referred to the mapping exercise , which is very welcomed by the committee . should that mapping exercise identify gaps ? will the welsh government be making a commitment to provide funding to plug those gaps so that there is a universal offer of parenting support for families in wales ? julie morgan am : we will certainly consider it at that point . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've come to the end of our time . we 've covered a great deal of ground . thank you , all , for attending and for answering such a diverse range of questions . as usual , you will be sent a transcript to check for accuracy following the meeting , but thank you very much to the three of you for your time this morning . julie morgan am : thank you very much , and thank you for all the questions and the wide range that we covered . thank you very much . lynne neagle am : item 3 , then , is papers to note . paper to note 1 is a letter from the deputy minister for health and social services , providing additional information following the evidence session on 2 may for this bill . paper to note 2 is a letter from the deputy minister for health and social services in response to the committee 's letter , which requested information on cafcass cymru 's response on specific points of interest in relation to the bill . and paper to note 3 is a letter from the deputy minister for health and social services making the committee aware of research undertaken in relation to public attitudes to physical punishment . can i ask if members are happy to note those ? suzy davies am : can i just make one observation ? i think it 's on the first of the letters , which is the difficulty that there 's been in trying to disaggregate the evidence of smacking as isolated incidents as compared to smacking as part of a bigger pattern of behaviour . i think that 's worth noting on the record . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the bill to ban physical punishment . </s> janet finch-saunders am : good morning . thank you , chair . good morning , deputy minister . of those individuals who responded to our written consultation in a personal capacity , nearly 70 per cent do not support this bill . we also heard a clear message from the parents we met last week who oppose this bill that , as parents , they understand clearly the difference between child abuse and a light smack from a loving parent . how would you like to respond to that ? julie morgan am : thank you very much , janet , for that question . i think i 'd like to start by saying that child abuse is not the issue that the bill is trying to address . what the bill is trying to do is prohibit all forms of physical punishment , and that is in order to protect children 's rights and to ensure that children have the same protection from physical punishment as adults . but i do understand that people have different views , and that 's why this process has been so important—for us to hear what your views are and what parents ' views are . i know that , often , people use different euphemisms really to make light of physical punishment . i 've heard expressions used such as a 'light smack ' or a 'loving smack ' or a 'tap ' , and really there can be different interpretations of what is a 'light smack ' , what is a 'loving smack ' , and that does n't really cover the issue of the frequency of such actions being taken . but i would say that , however mild it seems to be , the united nations committee on the rights of the child recognises that any physical punishment of children , however minor , is incompatible with their human rights , and why should a big person hit a little person ? that 's been the sort of mantra , really , that has taken me through supporting this legislation—that it just seems wrong to me that there is something in the law that could mean that there could be an excuse for that happening . i believe we should n't have anything in the law that defends the physical punishment of children , and i do n't think we should be defining acceptable ways of hitting or punishing children , because i think it does send a confused message to children . it says , 'it 's okay for me to hit you , but do n't you hit anybody else . ' i think it causes confusion . so , i 'm confident that updating the law will make it much clearer for parents and people working with children—and , of course , i 'm sure , as you 'll have heard from the evidence you 've taken , that people who work with children are overwhelmingly in support of this legislation , and the representative surveys that we 've carried out show support for the bill 's principles . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , deputy minister . last week , during the workshop , a few parents—predominantly all of them , actually—said that they use a gentle tap or smacking as part of a toolkit of ways to deal with challenging behaviour or , sometimes , for the safety of the child or , indeed , to carry out the parenting of a child . how do you intend to work with parents going forward , given the finite resources that social care and social services have ? i know from the responses we 've received to the consultation that parents themselves who have to parent 24 hours a day , seven days a week , they are really , on the scale of things , very upset about this . how do you intend to try and get your message across to those parents on removing what they consider to be part of their toolkit when raising children ? how do you intend to deal with that aspect ? julie morgan am : well , first of all , i want to say , as i 've said in most evidence sessions , that i completely accept that bringing up children is hard . it 's very difficult ; many of us have done it and we know how tough it can be . but we do n't think that there is any place for physical punishment in bringing up children . there 's a whole range of other ways that you can help parents bring up children , and advice you can give them of different methods to use . but , the clear message of this bill is that we do n't want any physical punishment ; we do n't think it 's the right thing to do , and we believe that we are supported by many people in that view . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . lynne neagle am : you 've got other questions , janet . janet finch-saunders am : okay . oh , yes . several consultation responses refer to statistics from sweden , which they say show that child-on-child violence actually increased by 1,791 per cent between 1984 and 2010 , following the ban on physical punishment in 1979 . what is your view on these figures and how can we be certain that this bill wo n't lead to other long-term negative outcomes in wales ? julie morgan am : well , i 'm aware of the debate surrounding the interpretation of the different statistics from sweden . what 's happened , really , in the academic research is that different academics are focused on different figures to support their views , and the methodological ways of doing it makes it quite difficult to have causation . i was very encouraged that a recent study of 88 countries concluded that if a country prohibits corporal punishment , the result is association with less youth violence , and this is one of the largest cross-national analyses of youth violence , with more than 400,000 participants . so , there is other evidence , very widespread evidence , which looks at a whole range of people , that is in contrast to the swedish evidence . but , evidence in this field is mixed and we have considered a wide range of research and reviews , but ultimately the decision is one that is based on our commitment to children 's rights . janet finch-saunders am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : do you want question 3 ? janet finch-saunders am : i can do it , yes . the bill 's explanatory memorandum says that 'there is no definitive evidence that `` reasonable '' physical punishment causes negative outcomes for children ' . however , we have heard from equal protection network cymru that international evidence could not be clearer and that they found the wales centre for public policy 's report , on which the explanatory memorandum is based , very confusing and very frustrating , and that it did n't tie in with what they knew . how would you respond to those viewpoints ? julie morgan am : we were very keen to get as balanced research as we possibly could , and we did n't want to just put forward views that we thought agreed with our point of view . so , we were trying to give a balanced point of view , but we did commission the wales centre for public policy to do an independent literature review and we 're honestly reporting to you what they said . but they did make it clear , again , which i think i 've said in previous evidence sessions , that all physical punishment , under all conditions , is potentially harmful to children . and certainly , there is no peer-reviewed research that says that physically punishing a child is going to improve things , has favourable outcomes . so , i understand what equal protection network cymru are saying , because there is a lot of very strong evidence , but we 're giving you the evidence that we had from the research that we commissioned . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 've got some questions now from suzy on implementation . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . i 've just got a couple of questions on this balance between the steps that will be needed to implement this bill and the impact that it 'll actually have . you 've probably heard in evidence that we 've received that there are still some concerns out there about how agencies might address malicious reporting ; some detail about how the public interest test might be applied further along the line ; what 's going to happen with out-of-hours provision from social services , and so on . there are still , from our perspective , quite a few things that are unknown about the effect on our public services in particular of the implementation of this bill . would you agree that perhaps we should know a little bit more about that before we proceed with supporting the bill ? julie morgan am : well , it 's very difficult , bringing in this legislation that has n't been done before . it 's very difficult to gauge the impact , and we 've covered that , i know , in previous discussions . but i think it 's very important to say that we are not creating a new offence . the bill is removing a defence to an offence of common assault . and i think it 's an interesting point to make that , in ireland , they introduced similar legislation through an amendment to a bill , and had no detailed preparation for bringing in the bill , and in fact there 's no evidence that this has caused any difficulties , and no significant negative impacts or increase in workload . but in any case , we have our implementation group , which is going to address many of these issues . this met on 14 may . that was the first meeting . you see , i think we do have to take a balance between assuming this bill is going to go through and what we can actually do . we ca n't presume that the assembly will accept this bill , so we have to be staged in what we do . but we had the first strategic implementation group on 14 may , and we had representatives from the police , the police and crime commissioners , the crown prosecution service , the association of directors of social services cymru , the association of directors of education in wales , the welsh local government association , the legal profession and the third sector . they 're all there , and they 're all very keen to make this legislation work and to look at the implications of it . i 'd just like to say how grateful i am for all those organisations giving their time and commitment . they 've set up four work streams , looking at parenting advice and support ; data collection , evaluation and monitoring ; operations , procedures and processes ; and out-of-court disposals and diversions . these groups will be taking forward this work and will be looking at many of those issues that you 've mentioned , and will also be updated on the progress of the awareness strategy that we will be bringing in . i 'm really confident that the legislation will be implemented in a very practical and workable way , because we do have the commitment of all these agencies , and there 's been a huge amount of preparation done in the welsh government to prepare for this in a way that , i have to say , has n't been done in some of the other countries—as i mentioned , in ireland . so , as much preparation as could be done is being done and has been done , but we really now see that the implementation group is taking forward all these issues , and obviously those agencies that are taking part in the implementation group are , on the whole , in support of the principles of this bill . suzy davies am : well , thank you for that , minister , but the way i look at this is that you 've already said that , if this bill passes—and it will pass ; it 's in enough manifestos to pass , so the question is what type of bill is going to pass—and if there is a gap of , let 's say , two years before anything is implemented , and the implementation group is doing the work that you 've described—and we 're very relieved to hear that—why is this bill being introduced now when that implementation group has n't really come up with a strategy that could help persuade people about what implementing this bill would look like in real life ? you 're asking the welsh public to take a bit of a chance on this . julie morgan am : i think we have , as far as possible , looked at international evidence where this legislation has been introduced . it 's different for different countries , so i know it 's difficult to get anything that 's absolutely linked . but i do n't agree that it 's a bit of a chance , really . i think we are preparing very well and very carefully . as the team who have been working on this have worked through the preparation for the bill , lots of issues have arisen as they 've done that , and so you have to do that , i think , alongside the actual practical implications with the groups that are coming together , and i think the point at which we 've done that is probably just about right , really . suzy davies am : okay . i hope this is n't going on to somebody else 's questions , but accepting what you say , would you then be open to accepting amendments to the face of the bill that would clarify the position for the welsh public on certain things that may be of concern to them , which have been fed through to us ? i 'm not suggesting anything specific , but— . julie morgan am : no , no . i mean , the position is that it is a very simple , one-clause bill . we want to keep it as simple as possible , but i 'm certainly prepared to consider any issues that come up , and i think that 's been the case all along . although our preference is to keep it simple . suzy davies am : i understand that . it 's just what 's going to work as a bit of law here , is n't it ? and then just finally from me , and you 've made the point to a degree , that , of course , not all countries are like wales . if we look at ireland , and new zealand 's the one we 've been looking at an awful lot , which are the most similar , their work has n't really been in place for that long , and one of the things that , i think , you 're going to need to be able persuade us of is that if the culture change to which we 've already referred is going in one way anyway , and if it continues to go in that direction , that this bill will have had a causal effect . i 'm trying to establish whether the culture change is going to happen anyway , whether or not we pass this legislation . julie morgan am : well , it does look as if a culture change is happening in any case , but the culture change will never really move , i think , as most of us want it , if there is legislation that does appear to condone the use of physical punishment , and having this reasonable punishment in law means that happens . so , i think , passing the legislation by itself will certainly not do everything— suzy davies am : no . and you 'll be aware that this is to go with it . i get that , but— julie morgan am : you 've got to have— . and i think the research has all shown you 've got to have an awareness campaign running along with it . that is shown . and in the other countries we 've looked at , i do n't think an awareness campaign was actually carried out because we are planning a really big awareness campaign because we think it 's absolutely fair to the welsh public , as you said , that they absolutely know what we 're doing and everybody 's aware of it . so , i think it is— . suzy davies am : okay . well , can i just finish— ? julie morgan am : i know the point you 're making . you 're saying that this would happen in any case , maybe . suzy davies am : i 'm suggesting it . julie morgan am : but if you 've got a bit of legislation there on the bill , it will always mean that for a very minority group of parents , they will feel that they have got the right to use physical punishment against their child , and i just think it 's something we should get rid of . i think it 's an anachronism and it 's something we should— . and i think wales has been very strong on children 's rights . we 've got rid of physical punishment in schools , child minders , regulated care settings . and , of course , the other point that i do n't think we say enough about is that it 's not just parents ; it 's people in loco parentis who are working in leisure centres or religious establishments or any of those unregulated settings who also have this defence . so , it 's last bit in the jigsaw , really , to have it quite clear that we want to treat our children with respect and dignity and i think this will move us towards that . suzy davies am : okay . well , it 's the argument you 've made before . i think what i was trying to get to is : how are we going to prove that this piece of legislation has worked effectively ? it 's about the data capture , i guess . what are you going to do to make sure that you acquire evidence in the future to show that this has worked , or potentially not worked ? i 'd be surprised if that was the case , but— . because , of course , that has an implication then on the resources for the various people you 'll be asking to collect the data . julie morgan am : yes . i think that 's very important because we need to know what is the effect of the legislation we 'll be bringing in . so , we will be having ongoing evaluation , we will be bringing in an independent body to evaluate . we have got ongoing monitoring and we 've got ongoing monitoring surveys looking at what are the views of the public . so , yes— suzy davies am : it 'll be directly linked to the bill , then , rather than that broad culture change . julie morgan am : the monitoring , asking the views of the public , is generally about issues related to the bill . the views of parents about whether this legislation— suzy davies am : sorry , i do n't want to labour this point . julie morgan am : and awareness . how aware they are . suzy davies am : basically , we need a question , 'has this bill stopped you smacking your child ? ' that 's the core question . so , phrase it differently , yes ? julie morgan am : yes . well , we are in the surveys asking how many people feel that they do smack their child , but this is any physical punishment , actually , not just smacking— suzy davies am : and it 's for the future , not for now . julie morgan am : —and how many , actually , are doing that . and it is consistently going down , as you said . </s>
<s> what did julie morgan think about a light smack from a loving parent when talking about the bill to ban physical punishment ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : good morning . thank you , chair . good morning , deputy minister . of those individuals who responded to our written consultation in a personal capacity , nearly 70 per cent do not support this bill . we also heard a clear message from the parents we met last week who oppose this bill that , as parents , they understand clearly the difference between child abuse and a light smack from a loving parent . how would you like to respond to that ? julie morgan am : thank you very much , janet , for that question . i think i 'd like to start by saying that child abuse is not the issue that the bill is trying to address . what the bill is trying to do is prohibit all forms of physical punishment , and that is in order to protect children 's rights and to ensure that children have the same protection from physical punishment as adults . but i do understand that people have different views , and that 's why this process has been so important—for us to hear what your views are and what parents ' views are . i know that , often , people use different euphemisms really to make light of physical punishment . i 've heard expressions used such as a 'light smack ' or a 'loving smack ' or a 'tap ' , and really there can be different interpretations of what is a 'light smack ' , what is a 'loving smack ' , and that does n't really cover the issue of the frequency of such actions being taken . but i would say that , however mild it seems to be , the united nations committee on the rights of the child recognises that any physical punishment of children , however minor , is incompatible with their human rights , and why should a big person hit a little person ? that 's been the sort of mantra , really , that has taken me through supporting this legislation—that it just seems wrong to me that there is something in the law that could mean that there could be an excuse for that happening . i believe we should n't have anything in the law that defends the physical punishment of children , and i do n't think we should be defining acceptable ways of hitting or punishing children , because i think it does send a confused message to children . it says , 'it 's okay for me to hit you , but do n't you hit anybody else . ' i think it causes confusion . so , i 'm confident that updating the law will make it much clearer for parents and people working with children—and , of course , i 'm sure , as you 'll have heard from the evidence you 've taken , that people who work with children are overwhelmingly in support of this legislation , and the representative surveys that we 've carried out show support for the bill 's principles . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , deputy minister . last week , during the workshop , a few parents—predominantly all of them , actually—said that they use a gentle tap or smacking as part of a toolkit of ways to deal with challenging behaviour or , sometimes , for the safety of the child or , indeed , to carry out the parenting of a child . how do you intend to work with parents going forward , given the finite resources that social care and social services have ? i know from the responses we 've received to the consultation that parents themselves who have to parent 24 hours a day , seven days a week , they are really , on the scale of things , very upset about this . how do you intend to try and get your message across to those parents on removing what they consider to be part of their toolkit when raising children ? how do you intend to deal with that aspect ? julie morgan am : well , first of all , i want to say , as i 've said in most evidence sessions , that i completely accept that bringing up children is hard . it 's very difficult ; many of us have done it and we know how tough it can be . but we do n't think that there is any place for physical punishment in bringing up children . there 's a whole range of other ways that you can help parents bring up children , and advice you can give them of different methods to use . but , the clear message of this bill is that we do n't want any physical punishment ; we do n't think it 's the right thing to do , and we believe that we are supported by many people in that view . </s>
<s> what were measures to make sure the effectiveness of the bill to ban physical punishment ? </s> suzy davies am : okay . well , it 's the argument you 've made before . i think what i was trying to get to is : how are we going to prove that this piece of legislation has worked effectively ? it 's about the data capture , i guess . what are you going to do to make sure that you acquire evidence in the future to show that this has worked , or potentially not worked ? i 'd be surprised if that was the case , but— . because , of course , that has an implication then on the resources for the various people you 'll be asking to collect the data . julie morgan am : yes . i think that 's very important because we need to know what is the effect of the legislation we 'll be bringing in . so , we will be having ongoing evaluation , we will be bringing in an independent body to evaluate . we have got ongoing monitoring and we 've got ongoing monitoring surveys looking at what are the views of the public . so , yes— suzy davies am : it 'll be directly linked to the bill , then , rather than that broad culture change . julie morgan am : the monitoring , asking the views of the public , is generally about issues related to the bill . the views of parents about whether this legislation— suzy davies am : sorry , i do n't want to labour this point . julie morgan am : and awareness . how aware they are . suzy davies am : basically , we need a question , 'has this bill stopped you smacking your child ? ' that 's the core question . so , phrase it differently , yes ? julie morgan am : yes . well , we are in the surveys asking how many people feel that they do smack their child , but this is any physical punishment , actually , not just smacking— suzy davies am : and it 's for the future , not for now . julie morgan am : —and how many , actually , are doing that . and it is consistently going down , as you said . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about relative agencies and workload . </s> lynne neagle am : thank you . we 're going to move on to explore some of the issues around social services now with questions from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . morning , minister . when the association of directors of social services cymru came in , they were saying to us that they would encourage people to report any instances , anything that they see around somebody smacking a child . that leads on to the question about whether in fact social services , then , would change their thresholds for intervention if there were more cases being referred to them . are you fairly confident , are you certain , that that would n't happen , or do you think there is a danger that social services might actually say , 'well , actually , if we 're getting all these referrals , we need to think again about when and if we intervene ' , and the thresholds could become a bit lower ? julie morgan am : well , as you know , social services already receive and investigate reports of children being physically punished—any sort of range of physical punishment—and they use standard procedures to determine how to proceed , but that 's done on a case-by-case basis ; it 's made on the individual case element . and , of course , there is a distinction between reasonable punishment and child neglect or abuse . and if this legislation is enacted , a significant proportion of the incidents of physical punishment will not require any response under the child protection procedures , and we do not expect the threshold of significant harm to change . and i know you took evidence from the adss , and i know sally jenkins gave evidence , who is one of the lead practitioners , and i understood she said : 'in terms of thresholds for children 's services , we would not be anticipating a huge number of referrals to us . there may be a small number of referrals that come through . what we know from other nations is that it will peak and then settle . we recognise that 's likely to happen . ' so , i think— dawn bowden am : so , it 's the threshold for intervention that 's the key , really , is n't it , rather than— ? julie morgan am : yes , they do n't see that changing . dawn bowden am : so , they do n't see that changing . julie morgan am : no , no . and we do n't see that changing . dawn bowden am : okay , that 's fine . the police , when they came in to give evidence , talked about the need for the multi-agency safeguarding hubs . and what we also heard is that it 's a bit inconsistent across the country . and i think you acknowledged that as well . do you think the implementation of the bill , and its effectiveness , is going to be dependent on us having consistently effective multi-agency safeguarding hubs right the way across the country ? julie morgan am : no . the effective implementation of the bill does not depend on mashs , as we call them for short , because bodies , social services , already work closely with the police on a day-to-day basis , really , and they have indicated their willingness to do so , and there are already well-established mechanisms in place that enable this joint working to take place . i know that the mashs are only in certain areas , and i know that it's— . i think they 're probably very good to have , actually , and very good to help the work , but it 's certainly not dependent on them . dawn bowden am : okay , but it would be something that you would be wanting to see developed , that eventually we would have these mashs right across the country ? julie morgan am : at the moment , there are three mashs in the south wales police force , and one pilot mash in the gwent police force , but they do n't operate in exactly the same way . and i know that other areas have considered having mashs , but have n't actually brought any in . and a multi-agency strategic group , which is led by south wales police , has been set up , and it will consider the effectiveness of mash arrangements in wales , so it 's very possible there will be more mashs , but i want to reiterate that we 're not dependent on mashs in order to have the close working . but they 're welcome—very welcome . dawn bowden am : yes , because the key point from the police 's point of view , i think , was that they provide a single point of contact , so it 's very simple , is n't it ? it 's a single point of contact , and i think they were quite concerned that having that single point of contact might actually reduce the level of unnecessary police prosecutions—well , the police do n't prosecute , but charges and so on . so , it was just a point that they were raising . julie morgan am : i think they are very effective and very much to be welcomed , but it 's certainly not essential . dawn bowden am : sorry , karen . karen cornish : i was just going to say that it 's probably worth saying that looking at how agencies work together will be one of the things , again , that will be looked at very carefully on the task and finish group , looking at processes and procedures . we 're very alert to the fact that there are different organisations , different services , and that bringing them together , working in as consistent a way as possible , is really , really important . as the minister has said , social services , the police and others are already committed to working together , and , actually , we just want to make sure that we develop those working practices in the best way possible , recognising that not every area will have a mash , and reiterating , again , what the deputy minister has said—that the effectiveness of the bill is not predicated on a mash in every area , but it is important that all those organisations do work together in a consistent and appropriate way . dawn bowden am : okay , that 's fine . thank you very much . the other response that we 've received is from social workers . and they 've talked about the fact that the social worker 's workload is already very stretched , and you 'll be aware of that , minister . and i think they were getting a little bit concerned about whether a whole raft of new cases are going to land on what is an already extremely heavy workload , and how effectively they could deal with that . would you say that those concerns , in terms of the impact of this bill , are unfounded , or are we just saying that this is an unknown quantity at this stage , and we 're going to have to wait and see ? julie morgan am : well , first of all , if i can just pay tribute to the work that social workers do . dawn bowden am : yes , absolutely . julie morgan am : because , obviously , they ’ re going to be essential to the successful implementation of this bill . i was a social worker myself , so i ’ m very happy to pay tribute to them . [ laughter . ] but they do do a hard job , which isn ’ t always recognised , i think , by the public . so , i do take this point very seriously , but , obviously , the professionals who have given evidence—many of them have said they don ’ t see there being a big rise of referrals . jane randall , national independent safeguarding board—i think she came to you—said : 'there 's no expectation that there 's going to be a huge increase in the number of referrals…i think it would be dealt with within their existing resources . ' i mean , there may be an increase in reporting of incidents , initially , maybe from individuals in the community and organisations such as schools . and i think it could have an impact on the initial stages of social services activity , which i think others—i think sally jenkins said that maybe there ’ d be an increase , a small increase , at the beginning . but as we expect the awareness raising and the ongoing support that we ’ ll be giving to parents—we do feel that the incidents of physical punishment will be falling over time . and we don ’ t really see that there will be an increase . but i know that social workers are stretched , and are hard-pressed—and i think that was some of the evidence given to you by the british association of social workers . but i think it ’ s important to remember that they are also very strongly in support of us carrying out this legislation . but it is important to look at the realities and the practicalities . so , we ’ re going to work very closely with social services—obviously , key members of our implementation group—and we will collect relevant data for a period before the actual implementation , in order to get a baseline . we want a baseline , and we are working with a small number of social services to try to get the baseline of where it is , and to see what happens when the bill is implemented . the evidence from other countries is that they certainly have not been overwhelmed . there have been reports in new zealand that they have not been overwhelmed , and i mentioned ireland earlier . so , i don ’ t think , really , we have to fear that social services would be overwhelmed , but we must be prepared , and we must get this data and monitor it closely . dawn bowden am : keep it monitored . and i guess things will level out in due course . and social services clearly having to make judgments every day—they will be making those judgments quite quickly and turning them around . the children and family court advisory and support service , when they spoke to us , also had—there was a similar kind of concern raised . they did say that they felt that they probably did have adequate resources to support the bill . but do you think there is any danger at all that it could divert cafcass staff , if we have a high volume of reporting , particularly given that we ’ ve got a 26-week limit in which to deal with those cases ? is that something that causes you any concern at this stage ? julie morgan am : well , cafcass are confident that they can deal with the cases that they have . as you know , there 's been a big increase in the numbers that cafcass is dealing with already , and they have managed to very successfully cope with the demand . so , i 've got every confidence that they will be able to cope with it . dawn bowden am : because they were basically just saying that it 's unpredictable at this stage , were n't they , so— ? julie morgan am : yes . it is unpredictable . our best views are that it will not— . dawn bowden am : yes , because they were talking about the fact that no assessment had been made about the risk of malicious reporting . we talked about that in a number of sessions with the police and so on . so , i think their biggest concern was more about the rise in looked-after children and the impact on that in terms of their workload , and it was just a question of whether this would potentially divert any resources , i guess . julie morgan am : i think , in terms of the malicious reporting , obviously that is something that happens a lot now and it is is likely that , perhaps— . i think they felt that , in existing cases , this might be another element that should be brought in , but they seemed , in my discussions , fairly confident . i know they appeared before the committee , and they are coping very well . but , obviously , another area we are very concerned about is the rise in the number of looked-after children , and that 's somewhere we want to try to do what we can to bring that down . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . just before suzy comes in with a supplementary—cafcass did n't come to the committee , they 've submitted— julie morgan am : they sent a letter—that 's right . yes , sorry about that . suzy davies am : just very quickly , because i do n't want to spend a lot of time on this : is n't it going to be true that any increase in workload for social services or schools or whoever is going to depend on reporting rising ? where do you see the likely rise in reporting taking place ? will it be members of the public or is it going to be professionals who feel that this is something that they ca n't ignore from now on ? julie morgan am : well , i think it would be mixed . i do n't have any view or where it particularly would come from , because if there are any reports that go into agencies now about children being physically punished in any way—i think they investigate those already now . but i suppose members of the public might report if they see any physical punishment going on . they would be made much more aware , we hope , by the legislation—so , that may happen . but i think , in schools , if there is physical punishment reported by a child , the schools would report it in any case . but i think it 's likely that there will be a small rise . suzy davies am : i was just curious about where you thought the main source would be— julie morgan am : i ca n't really be definitive about that . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . </s>
<s> what did julie morgan and karen cornish think about the relationship with other agencies when talking about relative agencies and workload ? </s> lynne neagle am : thank you . we 're going to move on to explore some of the issues around social services now with questions from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . morning , minister . when the association of directors of social services cymru came in , they were saying to us that they would encourage people to report any instances , anything that they see around somebody smacking a child . that leads on to the question about whether in fact social services , then , would change their thresholds for intervention if there were more cases being referred to them . are you fairly confident , are you certain , that that would n't happen , or do you think there is a danger that social services might actually say , 'well , actually , if we 're getting all these referrals , we need to think again about when and if we intervene ' , and the thresholds could become a bit lower ? julie morgan am : well , as you know , social services already receive and investigate reports of children being physically punished—any sort of range of physical punishment—and they use standard procedures to determine how to proceed , but that 's done on a case-by-case basis ; it 's made on the individual case element . and , of course , there is a distinction between reasonable punishment and child neglect or abuse . and if this legislation is enacted , a significant proportion of the incidents of physical punishment will not require any response under the child protection procedures , and we do not expect the threshold of significant harm to change . and i know you took evidence from the adss , and i know sally jenkins gave evidence , who is one of the lead practitioners , and i understood she said : 'in terms of thresholds for children 's services , we would not be anticipating a huge number of referrals to us . there may be a small number of referrals that come through . what we know from other nations is that it will peak and then settle . we recognise that 's likely to happen . ' so , i think— dawn bowden am : so , it 's the threshold for intervention that 's the key , really , is n't it , rather than— ? julie morgan am : yes , they do n't see that changing . dawn bowden am : so , they do n't see that changing . julie morgan am : no , no . and we do n't see that changing . dawn bowden am : okay , that 's fine . the police , when they came in to give evidence , talked about the need for the multi-agency safeguarding hubs . and what we also heard is that it 's a bit inconsistent across the country . and i think you acknowledged that as well . do you think the implementation of the bill , and its effectiveness , is going to be dependent on us having consistently effective multi-agency safeguarding hubs right the way across the country ? julie morgan am : no . the effective implementation of the bill does not depend on mashs , as we call them for short , because bodies , social services , already work closely with the police on a day-to-day basis , really , and they have indicated their willingness to do so , and there are already well-established mechanisms in place that enable this joint working to take place . i know that the mashs are only in certain areas , and i know that it's— . i think they 're probably very good to have , actually , and very good to help the work , but it 's certainly not dependent on them . dawn bowden am : okay , but it would be something that you would be wanting to see developed , that eventually we would have these mashs right across the country ? julie morgan am : at the moment , there are three mashs in the south wales police force , and one pilot mash in the gwent police force , but they do n't operate in exactly the same way . and i know that other areas have considered having mashs , but have n't actually brought any in . and a multi-agency strategic group , which is led by south wales police , has been set up , and it will consider the effectiveness of mash arrangements in wales , so it 's very possible there will be more mashs , but i want to reiterate that we 're not dependent on mashs in order to have the close working . but they 're welcome—very welcome . dawn bowden am : yes , because the key point from the police 's point of view , i think , was that they provide a single point of contact , so it 's very simple , is n't it ? it 's a single point of contact , and i think they were quite concerned that having that single point of contact might actually reduce the level of unnecessary police prosecutions—well , the police do n't prosecute , but charges and so on . so , it was just a point that they were raising . julie morgan am : i think they are very effective and very much to be welcomed , but it 's certainly not essential . dawn bowden am : sorry , karen . </s>
<s> what did julie morgan respond to the worry of heavy workload for social workers when talking about relative agencies and workload ? </s> dawn bowden am : okay , that 's fine . thank you very much . the other response that we 've received is from social workers . and they 've talked about the fact that the social worker 's workload is already very stretched , and you 'll be aware of that , minister . and i think they were getting a little bit concerned about whether a whole raft of new cases are going to land on what is an already extremely heavy workload , and how effectively they could deal with that . would you say that those concerns , in terms of the impact of this bill , are unfounded , or are we just saying that this is an unknown quantity at this stage , and we 're going to have to wait and see ? julie morgan am : well , first of all , if i can just pay tribute to the work that social workers do . dawn bowden am : yes , absolutely . julie morgan am : because , obviously , they ’ re going to be essential to the successful implementation of this bill . i was a social worker myself , so i ’ m very happy to pay tribute to them . [ laughter . ] but they do do a hard job , which isn ’ t always recognised , i think , by the public . so , i do take this point very seriously , but , obviously , the professionals who have given evidence—many of them have said they don ’ t see there being a big rise of referrals . jane randall , national independent safeguarding board—i think she came to you—said : 'there 's no expectation that there 's going to be a huge increase in the number of referrals…i think it would be dealt with within their existing resources . ' i mean , there may be an increase in reporting of incidents , initially , maybe from individuals in the community and organisations such as schools . and i think it could have an impact on the initial stages of social services activity , which i think others—i think sally jenkins said that maybe there ’ d be an increase , a small increase , at the beginning . but as we expect the awareness raising and the ongoing support that we ’ ll be giving to parents—we do feel that the incidents of physical punishment will be falling over time . and we don ’ t really see that there will be an increase . but i know that social workers are stretched , and are hard-pressed—and i think that was some of the evidence given to you by the british association of social workers . but i think it ’ s important to remember that they are also very strongly in support of us carrying out this legislation . but it is important to look at the realities and the practicalities . so , we ’ re going to work very closely with social services—obviously , key members of our implementation group—and we will collect relevant data for a period before the actual implementation , in order to get a baseline . we want a baseline , and we are working with a small number of social services to try to get the baseline of where it is , and to see what happens when the bill is implemented . the evidence from other countries is that they certainly have not been overwhelmed . there have been reports in new zealand that they have not been overwhelmed , and i mentioned ireland earlier . so , i don ’ t think , really , we have to fear that social services would be overwhelmed , but we must be prepared , and we must get this data and monitor it closely . dawn bowden am : keep it monitored . and i guess things will level out in due course . and social services clearly having to make judgments every day—they will be making those judgments quite quickly and turning them around . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about parenting issues and teachers ' preparation . </s> sian gwenllian am : the bill , in essence , is a simple one , of course , is it not ? but what it does is provide a useful discussion on what good parenting is and what discipline methods are the most effective—that is , discipline methods that parents can use rather than physical punishment . do you think , therefore , that there 's a need to invest much more in programmes to do with parenting and in support services for families in terms of parenting , and that as part of an early intervention strategy that 's more co-ordinated and robust than what we have at present ? julie morgan am : well , we are developing the bill as part of a much wider package of support for children and their parents , which , of course , is already in place . this obviously includes the 'parenting . give it time ' campaign , which aims to help parents do the best job that they can by providing positive tips on parenting and information . and we 're already preparing now to update that , because , of course , that only goes up to age 7 and deals with issues about how you cope with your kids if they 're difficult at meal times and if they have tantrums . it is very well used by parents . but , of course , this legislation will go up to 18 years old , and so the issues may be very different . so , we 're already starting to prepare to update that 'parenting . give it time ' campaign . and then , obviously , there 's the universal services that give access to help and to promote positive parenting , delivered by local government , health , education , social services , social justice and the third sector . we will be encouraging all those agencies that provide that universal service to help support parents and to pass on this information . then , there will be the more targeted supports , such as flying start and families first , which offer help and advice . but what i 've done is i 've asked the officials to carry out a mapping exercise to see where the support is and where the gaps are or opportunities to do more , particularly around information and advice on positive alternatives to physical punishment , but also more widely . so , we are looking to see where the gaps are . i think parents do tend to use information and try to get help in many different ways . a very large number , actually , do use the internet . i was surprised , actually , that so many used the internet to get information . others ask their mothers , their families , their friends , and go to agencies . it 's such a wide range that we need that mapping exercise and we need to see where we need to put in more support . sian gwenllian am : i 'm pleased that you 're going to conduct that exercise , because the evidence that we 've received from a number of different directions is that there is n't enough investment in reality in the support services in the early years , and that there is a real need for the focus within government go back to early intervention and to have a much more co-ordinated strategy . you 've mentioned a number of agencies working on different elements , perhaps , but perhaps there 's a need to bring them all together . you talk about the 'parenting . give it time ' campaign , but i think it 's an online campaign effectively , and flying start—yes , people who attend those courses find them useful , but , of course , it 's not available across wales and it 's not available to every parent . there is a scheme that is available through schools in gwynedd—perhaps you are aware of it—incredible years , with professor judy hutchings , who has been working on this for a number of years now , very successfully , where schools , parents and the children work together on parenting methods that are positive . i wonder if it 's time to think about expanding that as part of an early intervention strategy across wales . perhaps you ca n't give a specific answer today , but may i ask you to take a look at that ? what concerns me is that the bill is going through but there 's not enough work relating to education and having people 's support for different methods , more positive methods , in my opinion , of parenting . there 's a real need to move and to invest in that area and perhaps move money towards that work . julie morgan am : well , certainly , i think that is the purpose of the mapping exercise , to see what is successful , where things need to be expanded , and that 's what we 're going to consider . incredible years—i know it 's very successful ; i am aware of that programme . i think there are patches all over wales of really good progress , but , certainly , i 'm sure we need to give more support to parents in the early years , and i think they 're only too glad to have it as well . children are very receptive at that age and early intervention is the key to many of the issues that we have to deal with later on . sian gwenllian am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 're going to return to some of the parenting issues later , but in the meantime we 've got questions from hefin david . hefin david am : just to take it on the next step from what siân gwenllian was asking about—in schools , are teachers ready for this legislation ? julie morgan am : on our implementation group , the education sector is represented . they 've come to the first meeting of the implementation group . so , they 're going to be fully involved in the preparation . obviously , corporal punishment was banned in schools a long time ago , and i think the education sector is very supportive of this move . but in terms of the awareness for teachers to be ready for it—obviously , the awareness campaign has got to be aimed at professionals in every field and certainly aimed at teachers . hefin david am : so , if i was a teacher in an individual school , what kind of preparation do you think i should expect ? julie morgan am : you know this better than me , having been more in the education field than me , but i think teachers are updated on different parts of childcare legislation now , and have in-service training days and training courses . and , certainly , perhaps this would be part of that—part of the training that teachers get . this would have to be incorporated into that . hefin david am : one of the things that the national association of head teachers told us was that they would n't want the cost of that kind of training to come from core budgets . would you agree with that ? julie morgan am : well , i would have thought this sort of measure would be incorporated into the training they were using already , actually . i wouldn't have seen it would need something completely separate . hefin david am : so , you think it should come from the core budget that they use for training ? julie morgan am : i think it could be incorporated in what they 're already doing . hefin david am : okay . and do you think that would be a significant additional cost or do you think that that would be minimal ? julie morgan am : i would have thought it would be minimal . they already have training courses about childcare issues , and this would be something that would be absorbed into that . hefin david am : you mentioned the implementation group and the fact that educators are represented on it . can you just be a bit clearer about how they are represented again ? i 'm not sure i caught that . julie morgan am : do you want to , karen , because you were at the group ? karen cornish : yes . so , education are represented on it through the association of directors of education in wales , and they have a representative on the strategic implementation group , and we are working with them to understand who else will be on the task and finish groups that we 're setting up that the minister 's already talked about . and we 've also had conversations with all of the trade unions . i personally went and spoke to them earlier in the year when the bill was being introduced , received their feedback and have said that i will go back and speak with them . hefin david am : okay . the things that are being raised so far—would you say they 're reflective of the concerns that the naht rose about , for example , funding of training ? are those kinds of issues raised ? the practical implications of introducing this bill—are they raised ? if not , what other issues might be raised ? karen cornish : so , i think that the main concerns that you 've already heard as a committee are similar concerns to those that have been raised previously . so , there 's not anything in addition to the things that we have discussed , either with the trade unions or through the implementation group , or during the consultation period . and , as the minister said , for the majority of these sort of things , teachers , education and other workforces already have procedures in place , because this comes under a safeguarding issue at one level . there are procedures and processes that are already there that they all follow . the ask will be based around those safeguarding procedures and , therefore , education and other services update their processes and procedures on a regular basis as a matter of course when any issues like this are addressed . there 's a wider context here . minister , i do n't know whether you wanted to say anything about the well-being and the— julie morgan am : yes . one of the things that i think this committee has been involved in is we want to have a whole-school approach . we want mental health and well-being to be part of the way that the whole school operates , and the culture and how schools engage with pupils and parents . and we want to create that atmosphere where there 's no wrong door , where children can bring up any of the concerns that they have with any member of the school staff that they trust . and , obviously , the school staff is wider than the teachers . and so , i think the creation of that sort of atmosphere is very important in taking forward this issue . hefin david am : i appreciate that . i think the bill , though , introduces a very specific set of changes that— julie morgan am : it removes the defence ; that 's all the bill does . hefin david am : but should a parent witness , now , smacking , then it will require a different kind of approach—sorry , if a teacher were to witness smacking , it would require a different kind of approach , perhaps , to existing approaches . there should n't , therefore , be any surprise amongst teachers in how to deal with these things when the bill comes in . i suppose the question i 'm asking is : can we be assured that nothing you 've said today in this meeting , in this committee , should be a surprise to teachers and trade unions , because that would already have been communicated through the bill implementation group ? julie morgan am : yes , well , karen has already said about the meetings that she 's had with the unions and they are present on the implementation group , but a lot of these things happen already . they already have to make decisions about physical punishment they may be told about by children , for example—probably more likely than actually witnessing anything . and they already have to make decisions on those sorts of issues , so i see this as being incorporated in with that . hefin david am : okay . with regard to health and the communication of this to parents , we 've heard about the healthy child wales programme , and the fact that it has the opportunity to play a role in raising parents ' awareness . do you think that 's the case ? julie morgan am : i think the healthy child wales programme and the role of the health visitor is absolutely crucial , because , obviously , the health visitor is there right at the beginning . it 's a universal service , and so there will be great opportunity for them to promote positive parenting in a much stronger way than they 're able to do at the moment , because the fact that you have this defence does mean that the professionals are n't able to make it as clear as they want to make it that positive parenting is the way that they 'd like families to go . so , i think this will be a great advantage to health visitors , and , obviously , they support it strongly , because they 're trying to encourage parents not to use physical punishment now , but with their hands slightly tied behind their back , because the defence does exist . hefin david am : that 's great , that 's a good thing , but the concern we 've got is that half the parents across wales are not accessing the healthy child wales programme , and in my community , within the aneurin bevan health board area , 80 per cent of parents are n't accessing the healthy child wales programme . so , are there concerns that , if you rely too much on that process for communication , then parents , particularly in the early years , will be left out ? julie morgan am : we 've got to rely on a range of ways of reaching parents , and i think that there are other times when there is a much higher ratio of children and families seen . but i think we 've had that discussion with the mapping exercise that we 've already mentioned , that we 're going to identify where there are gaps or where we can do more , and that 's where we will identify this . karen cornish : i think as well that that figure relates to one contact point across the whole of the healthy child wales programme , not the healthy child wales programme as a whole . maybe we could come back with some further information about the contacts , because i'm— . that figure— lynne neagle am : the percentage relates to the contact at age three and a half , but that is exactly the kind of age when you 'd expect more children to— . if they were going to be smacked , it would be at that sort of age , would n't it , really ? so , that is a concern for the committee , really , in terms of coverage . karen cornish : i can appreciate that , although i would— . midwives , health visitors and others working with families would actually be giving those messages , core messages , about setting boundaries , managing behaviour , discipline , positive parenting , right from the very beginning . so , reliance on that single point of contact at that one age point is not necessarily the most appropriate , because i think there 's a period from birth through to , actually , later as well , when those key health messages , those key messages around positive parenting , are and can be given . as the minister said , we will be mapping a lot of this , but we can give you some more advice on that , if that would be helpful , about the types of messages that are given during that period of time . lynne neagle am : yes , i think that would be helpful . i 've got some supplementaries on this , because i think the committee is concerned that at a key opportunity at age three and a half , a big chunk of families are n't having that contact that they should expect with their health visitor , really . suzy , then siân . suzy davies am : thank you . it 's also a time in their child 's life when they 're likely to be spending time not with their parents , in school or early years . and i just wanted a bit of clarification from you , minister , on what you were saying to hefin david about training here . i got the sense you thought this could just be slipped in as a paragraph in existing guidance , but i 'm not clear about what happens to a teacher who is told by a child that they 've been smacked , and they decide that they 're not going to report that—will they get into trouble over that ? if it 's part of a bigger picture that a teacher should have picked up , that 's different , but , if a child tells a teacher , 'oh , mammy smacked me because i did such and such ' , is that teacher going to get into trouble if they do n't report that to the police ? julie morgan am : if that happens now , the teacher is expected to report that now . i think they usually call in social services . suzy davies am : oh , it goes to social services . but that clarity is needed as well . julie morgan am : yes . that is what happens now , so would you expect a teacher to do it , yes . suzy davies am : okay . all right , thank you . sian gwenllian am : yes , i 'm just interested to hear a bit more about the mapping exercise that you 've referred to , which i think is really important , but it is going to show up a lot of gaps geographically , but also in service provision for different groups of families . it 's all very well doing a mapping exercise , but what is the purpose of that , and how are you going to ensure that those gaps do n't exist in future ? maybe we could have a note about what the timetable is for this exercise , and more in-depth understanding perhaps about what your intentions are , and how you intend to take it forward once you 've done the mapping exercise . julie morgan am : yes . we absolutely acknowledge that there is a lot more work to be done , and we know that we have to work hard at this to reach every family . obviously , the information that we 've had about the healthy child wales , the health boards will be monitoring that information and will be— . i think they 're going to establish a project board to consider the themes that are coming out from the healthy child wales , and so that will be certainly addressed there . and we will absolutely acknowledge that we expect that there will be work to be done . sian gwenllian am : and there will be investment needed , obviously , to fill in those gaps , which means a significant shift in the way government now looks at its budget , and a shift towards that early prevention . </s>
<s> what did julie morgan think about the cost of training for teachers when talking about parenting issues and teachers ' preparation ? </s> hefin david am : one of the things that the national association of head teachers told us was that they would n't want the cost of that kind of training to come from core budgets . would you agree with that ? julie morgan am : well , i would have thought this sort of measure would be incorporated into the training they were using already , actually . i wouldn't have seen it would need something completely separate . hefin david am : so , you think it should come from the core budget that they use for training ? julie morgan am : i think it could be incorporated in what they 're already doing . hefin david am : okay . and do you think that would be a significant additional cost or do you think that that would be minimal ? julie morgan am : i would have thought it would be minimal . they already have training courses about childcare issues , and this would be something that would be absorbed into that . hefin david am : you mentioned the implementation group and the fact that educators are represented on it . can you just be a bit clearer about how they are represented again ? i 'm not sure i caught that . julie morgan am : do you want to , karen , because you were at the group ? karen cornish : yes . so , education are represented on it through the association of directors of education in wales , and they have a representative on the strategic implementation group , and we are working with them to understand who else will be on the task and finish groups that we 're setting up that the minister 's already talked about . and we 've also had conversations with all of the trade unions . i personally went and spoke to them earlier in the year when the bill was being introduced , received their feedback and have said that i will go back and speak with them . hefin david am : okay . the things that are being raised so far—would you say they 're reflective of the concerns that the naht rose about , for example , funding of training ? are those kinds of issues raised ? the practical implications of introducing this bill—are they raised ? if not , what other issues might be raised ? </s>
<s> what did julie morgan think about the communication process through health visitors when talking about parenting issues and teachers ' preparation ? </s> hefin david am : okay . with regard to health and the communication of this to parents , we 've heard about the healthy child wales programme , and the fact that it has the opportunity to play a role in raising parents ' awareness . do you think that 's the case ? julie morgan am : i think the healthy child wales programme and the role of the health visitor is absolutely crucial , because , obviously , the health visitor is there right at the beginning . it 's a universal service , and so there will be great opportunity for them to promote positive parenting in a much stronger way than they 're able to do at the moment , because the fact that you have this defence does mean that the professionals are n't able to make it as clear as they want to make it that positive parenting is the way that they 'd like families to go . so , i think this will be a great advantage to health visitors , and , obviously , they support it strongly , because they 're trying to encourage parents not to use physical punishment now , but with their hands slightly tied behind their back , because the defence does exist . hefin david am : that 's great , that 's a good thing , but the concern we 've got is that half the parents across wales are not accessing the healthy child wales programme , and in my community , within the aneurin bevan health board area , 80 per cent of parents are n't accessing the healthy child wales programme . so , are there concerns that , if you rely too much on that process for communication , then parents , particularly in the early years , will be left out ? julie morgan am : we 've got to rely on a range of ways of reaching parents , and i think that there are other times when there is a much higher ratio of children and families seen . but i think we 've had that discussion with the mapping exercise that we 've already mentioned , that we 're going to identify where there are gaps or where we can do more , and that 's where we will identify this . karen cornish : i think as well that that figure relates to one contact point across the whole of the healthy child wales programme , not the healthy child wales programme as a whole . maybe we could come back with some further information about the contacts , because i'm— . that figure— lynne neagle am : the percentage relates to the contact at age three and a half , but that is exactly the kind of age when you 'd expect more children to— . if they were going to be smacked , it would be at that sort of age , would n't it , really ? so , that is a concern for the committee , really , in terms of coverage . karen cornish : i can appreciate that , although i would— . midwives , health visitors and others working with families would actually be giving those messages , core messages , about setting boundaries , managing behaviour , discipline , positive parenting , right from the very beginning . so , reliance on that single point of contact at that one age point is not necessarily the most appropriate , because i think there 's a period from birth through to , actually , later as well , when those key health messages , those key messages around positive parenting , are and can be given . as the minister said , we will be mapping a lot of this , but we can give you some more advice on that , if that would be helpful , about the types of messages that are given during that period of time . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about resource implications . </s> hefin david am : when you first appeared before the committee at the beginning of stage 1 , i was n't hugely reassured by the evidence you gave on the resource implications of the bill . it seems to be relying , to a great extent , on the limited number of reporting of cases that 's likely to happen , as we 've seen in the evidence we 've received . that 's largely been recognised by the stakeholders who 've given evidence , but is n't there still the potential for a degree of unknown costs to come into this , and what planning have you done for those unknown costs—those unforeseen costs—that might occur ? julie morgan am : i feel that— . you 're right that there always could be unknown costs , but we are doing our very best to prepare to cover all eventualities that we can anticipate . for example , i 've committed to fund the high-intensity awareness-raising campaign , and committed to carry out a mapping exercise to establish whether there are any gaps in the parenting support . we know that evidence from other countries does show that , if we bring in this legislation and raise awareness , it does change people 's attitudes , so there may , in the long term , be a saving if we do that . but we are committed to working with organisations to put in place arrangements so that we 're able to collect the data so that we know what the impact is . but i just have to repeat that all our evidence , looking at other countries , is that there is n't a huge increase in the workload . hefin david am : no . i think you can make the argument for precedent elsewhere , but you can also say that every country has a different culture and approach to how it raises children , and therefore there 'll be a number of differences as well . the explanatory memorandum raises some specific cases . it talks about unknown costs in relation to social services as a result of a potential increasing referrals ; family courts and cafcass cymru as a result of a potential increase in allegations , which we talked about ; the cps and a higher volume of requests for charging advice from the police ; and the review of training and guidance offered by organisations involved in the safeguarding of children . all those things we 've talked around , but what would be reassuring for the committee is , perhaps , if you could give us a broad figure , which the government would say , 'we 'll need to set this number aside in order to be prepared for the implementation of this bill . ' would you be willing to present that at some point during the passage of the bill ? julie morgan am : i think we have to rely on what the people who run those organisations are telling us . certainly , the cps say that they can cope . cafcass say that they can cope . and it is very difficult to anticipate what impact there would be on social services . the people who are managing social services say they do n't anticipate a big impact . i think the other important thing to recognise is that this area of work is already dealt with by all these people . so , the cps is already involved in changing its guidance all the time , so it 's not going to be much of an impact for them to actually have to do that over this issue . social services are already dealing with calls and referrals about the physical punishment of children already , including reasonable punishment . and so it 's not a new category of work . i accept that we 're working in a situation where there 's a general pressure on public services , but i think this area that we 're legislating on here is part of what everybody 's doing already . and so i do n't see it as such a big thing in terms of impact . hefin david am : that 's a perfectly reasonable answer , but then what about providing a ballpark figure for a kind unforeseen fund that you might set aside ? julie morgan am : i do n't think it 's possible to do that . we have to measure it as we go along . we 've got to get the data . the data will show— . we 've got to have baseline data to begin with , and that 's what 's so difficult to get , because we ca n't get that from other countries . only new zealand recorded any incidents before they actually brought in the legislation , and they did that for three months beforehand . that 's why we 've been looking at new zealand a lot of the time , just to make predictions . but we 've got to rely on the data . one of these sub-groups is looking at data , so that sub-group should be very productive , i think . and then we will be actually able to see what happens . but i do n't think we can respond to that . hefin david am : okay , that 's fine . and the last question , with regard to resourcing , just to understand the process of how this ties into the wider budgeting—did you and your officials sit down with the finance minister and the first minister 's officials to discuss the costing of this ? i imagine so . what was the nature of that kind of discussion ? julie morgan am : some of the costings are decided . for example , the advertising , the awareness-raising campaign—that 's £2.2 million over six years . so the decision has been made about that . i do n't know if there were further discussions right at the beginning of this process . karen cornish : there have been discussions . the discussions tend to be positive . we ca n't really say any more beyond that at this moment in time . hefin david am : okay . and who were the discussions with ? karen cornish : there has been an in-the-round discussion before the bill was introduced , at which the first minister and the finance minister and others were present . hefin david am : okay . and i imagine it 's gone to cabinet for discussion . karen cornish : the consultation and then the bill going forward has been discussed by cabinet , and gone through cabinet processes , as you would expect . hefin david am : so , are we able to say that the government as a whole is satisfied that there is n't going to be a huge impact on resource as a result of the introduction of this bill ? karen cornish : i think what you can say is that the government are satisfied that they are supportive of the bill and have put the bill forward . i think you can say that . hefin david am : okay . did you want to come in ? lynne neagle am : yes . are you satisfied that that amount of money—£2.5 million over five years [ correction : £2.2 million over six years ] —is going to be enough ? from memory , with the organ donation bill , the amount was something in the region of around £7 million that was set aside , i think . or maybe i 'm misremembering that , but— karen cornish : i think it was about £4 million— lynne neagle am : £4 million— karen cornish : something like that . lynne neagle am : so , there 's a disparity , then . that was a few years ago . you 've got to reach a lot of people , have n't you , with this , including some pretty hard-to-reach groups as well . are you confident that amount of money is going to be enough ? karen cornish : we are as confident as we can be at this moment in time . we are obviously going to be working with focus groups and others to look at what sorts of messaging there will need to be . but in terms of the initial stages of the awareness campaign , we are , as i say , as confident as we can be , based on what we know . lynne neagle am : okay . hefin , on human rights . hefin david am : i just wanted to ask a very specific question on human rights , because , you know , when it comes to appeals , there are a variety of articles under the european convention on human rights that might be used with regard to a challenge to the law as enacted . so , i 'll ask you the question very directly . for the purpose of the record , can you outline to us the assessment you 've made in preparation for this bill in relation to the balancing of relevant articles of the european convention on human rights , including but not limited to article 8 on the respect for private life ; article 9 , freedom of conscience and religion ; article 3 , the right to protection from torture and inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment ; and article 14 , protection from discrimination ? julie morgan am : thank you very much . we have given a great deal of thought , as you can imagine , to the human rights considerations as set out in our impact assessments , and it 's ultimately a question how we find a balance between the rights of children as well as parents , who both enjoy rights under the european convention on human rights . so , article 3 is the prohibition of torture : 'no one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . ' in ensuring that children are protected from physical punishment in the same way as adults , the bill is following that requirement of article 3 , and the positive obligations on states to protect individuals from ill treatment or punishment that is contrary to article 3 . and then , in terms of article 8 , right to respect for private and family life , 'everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life , his home and his correspondence . ' some of those who are opposed to the prohibition of physical punishment have cited article 8 , private and family life , and also cited article 9 , freedom of thought , conscience and religion , as potentially protecting the right for parents to decide how best to punish their children , including the use of physical punishment . that is used as an argument by those who are opposed to stopping physical punishment . but these rights are not absolute , and action can therefore be taken that interferes with them , provided the interference is justified . it 's the government 's view that the bill 's provisions are necessary in order to protect the rights and freedom of children . we are looking here from the point of view of children . the bill 's provisions are regarded as proportionate measures , and given the fundamental importance of protecting children from inhumane or degrading punishment or other ill treatment , we do consider that we have balanced the rights in a proportionate way . and then , article 10 , freedom of expression , and article 14 , prohibition of discrimination—these rights are not absolute and action can be taken , therefore , that interferes with them , providing the interference is justified . we do n't think it 's clear that article 10 and 14 rights are being interfered with , but even if they are , we consider we can justify the interference in order to protect the rights and freedoms of children . i do n't know , emma , whether you wanted to add anything to any of that . </s>
<s> what did julie morgan think about unforeseen costs when talking about resource implications ? </s> hefin david am : when you first appeared before the committee at the beginning of stage 1 , i was n't hugely reassured by the evidence you gave on the resource implications of the bill . it seems to be relying , to a great extent , on the limited number of reporting of cases that 's likely to happen , as we 've seen in the evidence we 've received . that 's largely been recognised by the stakeholders who 've given evidence , but is n't there still the potential for a degree of unknown costs to come into this , and what planning have you done for those unknown costs—those unforeseen costs—that might occur ? julie morgan am : i feel that— . you 're right that there always could be unknown costs , but we are doing our very best to prepare to cover all eventualities that we can anticipate . for example , i 've committed to fund the high-intensity awareness-raising campaign , and committed to carry out a mapping exercise to establish whether there are any gaps in the parenting support . we know that evidence from other countries does show that , if we bring in this legislation and raise awareness , it does change people 's attitudes , so there may , in the long term , be a saving if we do that . but we are committed to working with organisations to put in place arrangements so that we 're able to collect the data so that we know what the impact is . but i just have to repeat that all our evidence , looking at other countries , is that there is n't a huge increase in the workload . hefin david am : no . i think you can make the argument for precedent elsewhere , but you can also say that every country has a different culture and approach to how it raises children , and therefore there 'll be a number of differences as well . the explanatory memorandum raises some specific cases . it talks about unknown costs in relation to social services as a result of a potential increasing referrals ; family courts and cafcass cymru as a result of a potential increase in allegations , which we talked about ; the cps and a higher volume of requests for charging advice from the police ; and the review of training and guidance offered by organisations involved in the safeguarding of children . all those things we 've talked around , but what would be reassuring for the committee is , perhaps , if you could give us a broad figure , which the government would say , 'we 'll need to set this number aside in order to be prepared for the implementation of this bill . ' would you be willing to present that at some point during the passage of the bill ? julie morgan am : i think we have to rely on what the people who run those organisations are telling us . certainly , the cps say that they can cope . cafcass say that they can cope . and it is very difficult to anticipate what impact there would be on social services . the people who are managing social services say they do n't anticipate a big impact . i think the other important thing to recognise is that this area of work is already dealt with by all these people . so , the cps is already involved in changing its guidance all the time , so it 's not going to be much of an impact for them to actually have to do that over this issue . social services are already dealing with calls and referrals about the physical punishment of children already , including reasonable punishment . and so it 's not a new category of work . i accept that we 're working in a situation where there 's a general pressure on public services , but i think this area that we 're legislating on here is part of what everybody 's doing already . and so i do n't see it as such a big thing in terms of impact . hefin david am : that 's a perfectly reasonable answer , but then what about providing a ballpark figure for a kind unforeseen fund that you might set aside ? </s>
<s> what did karen cornish think about the budget given when talking about resource implications ? </s> hefin david am : okay , that 's fine . and the last question , with regard to resourcing , just to understand the process of how this ties into the wider budgeting—did you and your officials sit down with the finance minister and the first minister 's officials to discuss the costing of this ? i imagine so . what was the nature of that kind of discussion ? julie morgan am : some of the costings are decided . for example , the advertising , the awareness-raising campaign—that 's £2.2 million over six years . so the decision has been made about that . i do n't know if there were further discussions right at the beginning of this process . karen cornish : there have been discussions . the discussions tend to be positive . we ca n't really say any more beyond that at this moment in time . hefin david am : okay . and who were the discussions with ? karen cornish : there has been an in-the-round discussion before the bill was introduced , at which the first minister and the finance minister and others were present . hefin david am : okay . and i imagine it 's gone to cabinet for discussion . karen cornish : the consultation and then the bill going forward has been discussed by cabinet , and gone through cabinet processes , as you would expect . hefin david am : so , are we able to say that the government as a whole is satisfied that there is n't going to be a huge impact on resource as a result of the introduction of this bill ? karen cornish : i think what you can say is that the government are satisfied that they are supportive of the bill and have put the bill forward . i think you can say that . hefin david am : okay . did you want to come in ? lynne neagle am : yes . are you satisfied that that amount of money—£2.5 million over five years [ correction : £2.2 million over six years ] —is going to be enough ? from memory , with the organ donation bill , the amount was something in the region of around £7 million that was set aside , i think . or maybe i 'm misremembering that , but— karen cornish : i think it was about £4 million— lynne neagle am : £4 million— karen cornish : something like that . lynne neagle am : so , there 's a disparity , then . that was a few years ago . you 've got to reach a lot of people , have n't you , with this , including some pretty hard-to-reach groups as well . are you confident that amount of money is going to be enough ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : is everyone ready to start ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yes . project manager : okay . great . well , welcome to the third meeting of conceptual design . i 'll just get the powerpoint presentation up and running . okay . um , on the agenda for this , um , for this particular meeting , we 'll have your three presentations on what you 've done since our last meeting , after we came up with um some general ideas of our design . and , um , then we have to make some key decisions on , on our remote control concept , and how we 're gon na make it , what uh materials we 're gon na use , and that sort of thing . industrial designer : project manager : the meeting will be forty minutes long . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and um we will once again have poppy as our first presenter . industrial designer : okay . project manager : alright , and i will switch up powerpoint . industrial designer : thank you . project manager : okay . industrial designer : should be just loading . okay . oh , although i ca n't see it on my screen . that says go here . okay . i 've been doing some research into the different components that we could use , um what 's available to us f to actually make the remote control . um , first of all we have to look at how the remote control is actually made , and what is it happens inside the casing , which is more your field . um , thes main internal feature is a circuit board , which contains all the elec electronics and also the contacts with the power source . marketing : industrial designer : which is not necessarily a battery , as we 're about to see . um , there are several components of , um , the circuit board that we need to consider , where we 'll be getting them from , what they 'll be made of . um , including the integrated circuit , which is also known as the chip . which is where all the main information is uh contained . um , diodes , transistors , resonators , resistors , and capacit capacitors all need to be considered as well . um , and all their positioning in the circuit . project manager : um are they all included , like mandatorily , or r are these different options ? industrial designer : uh , these , they 're all different options , they 're all separate , apart from the chip , which we will probable decide whether we buy a simple , a regular , advanced . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : we can go into that later . um , all the other things are individual components that we 'd have to get in separately , and work out the most , like , effective um circuit , including all the wires and everything like that . and the l_e_d_ of course , that 's a light emitting diode . so , we could , so we 've got flex flexibility with colours and things , with that as well . okay , there are lots of different possibilities for the energy source . we could use a basic battery , but that brings with it , like they need to be recharged and the bulk , the size of it as well . and they 're not so great to dispose of , environmentally . there 's a hand-powered dynamo which is a sort of thing that was used for torches fifty years ago . a bit out of date . kinetic energy is something that 's been recently developed . project manager : um what is a hand-powered dynamo ? industrial designer : um , where you manually charge up the power . project manager : just every , every once in a while ? industrial designer : like you wind up something . project manager : just every once in a while or constantly ? industrial designer : sorry ? yeah . every once in a while i think project manager : alright . it 'd be kind of strange to always be cranking it i think . industrial designer : . but it 's yeah . it would be like going a step back in time . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i do n't think it would really be with kind of cutting edge technology . project manager : no . marketing : industrial designer : whereas kinetic energy is a new idea that 's being used by some watches and other devices , where you just shake the device and it gives it power . i mean , the kinetic energy is transformed into power to make the circuit work . um , or there 's solar power , which we 've been considering inside a building , which is where it 's gon na be used , might not be quite so useful . project manager : right . industrial designer : but , good to look into , renewable energy , always the way . um , lots of considerations for the case , like what sort of shape it would be , curved or flat . that 's got a lot to do with the ergonomics . like how it 's comfortable and s sits in the hand . we do n't want something that 's huge and you ca n't pick up . or too small . or too slidy . i know i 've had a remote control before which you could n't tell which was the front and the back , user interface : industrial designer : 'cause it had so many buttons on , and the shape was so symmetrical that i 'd be pressing like a volume button instead of the on button . because you ca n't really see which way round it is . project manager : right . industrial designer : um , we also can choose what materials um , the we could use metal , we could use rubber which might be more um ideal for the anti-r_s_i_ . it 's like the same sort of rubber that 's used in stress balls and things like that , so it 's very like soft , not so stressful on your hands . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : wood . project manager : industrial designer : um , again , stepping back in time again there . user interface : industrial designer : i do n't think that 's quite up to date with what we 're looking for here . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um , titanium is not gon na be possible , even though it just it beyond our budget really . but , would 've been maybe for future projects . um right our choice for buttons as well . we 've developed some we 've got some good advances in technology , with our research team have found some uh new multiple um option scroll buttons . i think that was brought up for , um , they 're basically quite a flexible design , modern , you do n't have to use individual buttons . you can just slide up and down . i 'm sure we 're all quite familiar with those on mobiles or computer laptop pads . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : um one thing with the scroll buttons though . it , it industrial designer : project manager : we would have to have an lcd um industrial designer : yeah . that 's true . project manager : display , and the glow in the dark thing might be difficult . industrial designer : and that would lead to an advanced yeah . if we have yeah . we 're going on to that later with the advanc with the lcd that means we 'd need a really advanced chip . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and it 's unlikely that that 's gon na be in our budget . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um , also we 've got the integrated pushbutton , which is what we 're most familiar with . it 's the most straightforward . but you can in like incorporate that with a scroll button as well . . got decisions to make there . and this is what i was just saying before . linked in the different depends on what type of buttons we have and the inputs . um simple would go with the pushbutton . um , regular you could link with the scroll button . and the advanced we 'd have to go with a lcd s display . project manager : right . industrial designer : my personal preferences ? i think we could go for the kinetic energy source . i do n't , i think that 's quite um an advanced kind of technology . it 's not been seen before , so it could be quite a , a novelty factor , attractive as well . and also energy saving 'cause you 're producing the energy , you do n't need an external sort of battery supply or solar panels . you just give it a shake . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : sounds brilliant to me . rubber casing i thing would probably the best , if we 're going for the anti-r_s_i_ and like more choice with um aesthetics . like it could be pretty much any colour we want . um , and gives you , yeah , more flexibility there . and probably the regular chip as opposed to the simple , marketing : industrial designer : then we could possibly have the scroll and the push , but no lcd , 'cause we probably ca n't afford that one . project manager : yeah . um , one concern with the rubber casing is that it would be rubber encapsulating all of these chips and diodes and delicate technology as industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : like as the exterior . this is the one thing that 's protecting its innards . industrial designer : i think that would , uh there would be an in sort of more internal casing . and the rubber would just be the , what 's in contact with the human . project manager : yeah . another thing is it might be more difficult if it 's a rubber exterior talking about putting on interchangeable plates . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , is it industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i do n't see how a like a rubber plate going on top it would stay there . like if it was sort of like a clip-on plastic plate . it would work that way . industrial designer : maybe if the , um , if it was just kind of a , more of a rubber coating which was on to a case . so , it was kind of , the whole thing would be removable . user interface : like plastic with rubber , kind of on top industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like i ca n't think of what . user interface : well , there 's , there is a certain phone that has like a rubber casing , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . or like an user interface : b like a nokia it is . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you can get sort of outer casing for ipods and something , that 's just it 's protective as well . user interface : it 's yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : like the skin ? industrial designer : it , it stops it , i mean , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it would reduce the impact if it was dropped or something , as well , 'cause it would n't damage itself so easily . project manager : yeah . user interface : project manager : alright . so maybe the industrial designer : i think i maybe a mixture of both there , maybe . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so the actual remote would be hard plastic and the casings rubber . industrial designer : and then yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . marketing : and the buttons obviously are rubber . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . marketing : project manager : that sounds good . i , um , is it possible to put designs onto this type of rubber ? industrial designer : as far as i know . it should be . project manager : okay , marketing : project manager : we 'll just say yeah . user interface : project manager : yes , just why not . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : alright . i like the kinetic energy source idea . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , i do n't know when people will , um , be moving a remote around a lot . industrial designer : i thought that was project manager : but i think that it 's worth it , kinetety , kinetic um user interface : yeah , tha marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : energy source . it could make an we could have any kind of style . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it would n't be as heavy or bulky , and industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . just for environmental reasons . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : marketing : i guess it 's a bit scary 'cause it has n't been done before . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it seems we 'd have to do more research on it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : or i dunno if you could have a battery pack . industrial designer : like as a backup for something . user interface : backup . yeah . marketing : yeah so there 's there is a one battery , because most remotes use two batteries i believe . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so , if it was running off of one battery as a user interface : that would be good yeah . industrial designer : yeah . some alternative just in case something went wrong . marketing : right . user interface : maybe we could you were saying about um solar power ma maybe not working indoors , but a lot of calculators , yeah , have solar power . industrial designer : that 's true . i just thought of that . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : so maybe that could be incorporated as industrial designer : may maybe that could be the backup . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : instead of a battery . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : like solar backup . marketing : although it needs some light , does n't it ? industrial designer : yeah . i suppose project manager : yeah , you can watch a tv in the dark then . user interface : do , do those calculators industrial designer : s but some marketing : so , if we 're doing user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . if we 're industrial designer : but thing is , it 's not you do n't need the solar all the time . user interface : i do n't know how it works . industrial designer : it can be stored . it can be like you can have the solar energy and then it can store that energy and use it . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it just needs to be in light for a certain amount of time per day . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like a few hours a day . . project manager : i think that might be a little impractical though . marketing : yeah . i think sometimes it 's just shoved under , under a cushion , project manager : yeah . marketing : and yeah . industrial designer : that 's true . it could easily user interface : yeah . project manager : like people do n't wan na have to worry about that . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i suppose it would be really annoying if you get to think , oh no , i forgot to charge my remote today . user interface : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like if the kinetic thing , i think what 's best about that is that it 's instant energy . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : you do n't have to , you know , you can shake it a few times , or whatever . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and it works . project manager : or just like pick it up when you 're gon na use it . industrial designer : yeah . instead of you do n't have to like make sure it 's in the right place to charge and . user interface : yeah , i suppose . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : alright . cool . industrial designer : k okay . project manager : 's that the end of your presentation . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : alright . user interface : yeah . project manager : thank you . industrial designer : there we go . user interface : thanks . oh . it 's not on my screen . industrial designer : it was n't on mine either . user interface : why ? industrial designer : i do n't know why . i think , i just , i just used the mouse on there . user interface : you do n't know why ? oh okay . is it that one ? project manager : yeah . that 's um industrial designer : yeah . user interface : um , i 'm just gon na go through the interface concept with yous now . uh , first of all i 'll explain what a user interface is . it 's the aspects of a computer system which can be seen or otherwise perceived , for example , heard or felt maybe , or by the human user . and it 's also the commands that the user uses to control its operation and to input data . um , there are two types of user interfaces . there 's the graphical user interface , which emphasises the use of pictures for output and a pointing device , for example a mouse for input control . so that 's sort of like the scroll thing we were talking about . project manager : oh . okay . yeah . user interface : yeah . i 'm not really sure about the pictures that maybe that 's on an lcd screen . or maybe it 's the the buttons or pictures or something . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : do you think it 's project manager : yeah , 'cause industrial designer : so i suppose sometime project manager : i 'm sorry ? industrial designer : after you . user interface : project manager : um , because command interface requires you to type textual commands and input at a keyboard , so the numbers are sort of like a keyboard . you 're pressing the numbers for , um , for what you want . user interface : yeah . yeah . so you must , for the graphical user you must need some kind of presentation for the graphics . industrial designer : i s i suppose where um mm on some buttons you would have like the power would be s some kind of symbol . user interface : like an lcd screen . industrial designer : and if you wanted to go onto teletext or , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i know we 're not having that , but i mean a similar thing , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you , they have there 's a like little picture with a screen with lines across it , which i suppose it 's that sort of thing like the , the symbol on the button . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : but if we 're having a simplified display anyway , w that , we probably wo n't have to focus so much on that . project manager : yeah , we 'll be doing industrial designer : it 'll be more the on the numbers and the volume . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . it 'd be more a command interface , and then industrial designer : i suppose we need to think of symbols for like the volume , display , and stuff like that . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so it 's just draf graphical for the pointing aspect ? industrial designer : i marketing : the infrared is like , that 's considered a user interface : no i think it 's to do with the actual symbols that are on the , that 's on the buttons of the remote control , and per marketing : okay . so when it says pointing device that does n't include industrial designer : for inp user interface : well it could be a wee scroller thing , and something could come up on the screen . project manager : yeah . i think they 're talking about lcd type things . marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . user interface : but um i think we 're gon na go with the command interface anyway , project manager : yeah . user interface : to make it more simplistic . but the , we could incorporate some of the graphical user um points , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : as in just to make it m um nicer to look at maybe . project manager : what do you mean ? user interface : like i ca n't think of an example , but sort of like little pictures rather than project manager : oh yeah , like how the buttons user interface : like a little sound . instead of saying volume , like a little speaker or something . project manager : yeah , as a button though . user interface : yeah , something y project manager : so , it 's a keyboard in the shape of it , right ? user interface : yeah m perha yeah . yeah . maybe . project manager : okay . yeah . i like that idea . user interface : um , the co uh we 've decided that the command interface would be the most useful for a remote control . as it would be less complicated , and the controls would be more user-friendly . um , the remote control would be cheaper to design , so that we 'd have more money in the budget to , um , target the design area of the interface . you know , make it more trendy and original . we 'll have more money if we keep it simple . project manager : yeah . i 'm sure i like kinetic energy would probably dip into the budget . a bit more too , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . seeing as it 's quite a new technology . um we , we also have to keep in mind when we 're designing our , um , more user-friendly remote control , that a lot of interfaces consist of a clutter of buttons , that , um , that their functions , colours and forms are n't always helpful . industrial designer : yeah . that 's true . that 's in like the buttons with all the different like colours for different choices and things . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it can be a bit , yeah , overwhelming . user interface : yeah . and that all interfaces are different . so , um , that does n't improve the use of the produ product , so we need to come up with something that 's easy to understand . and maybe learn from the mistakes of other interfaces that can be too complicated for people to use . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : does anyone have any questions ? project manager : do you think that we should keep all the buttons to one same colour , just to keep it , give it a simplistic look . marketing : i think if we go with the um design plate thing , we 'll have to . just because of colour clashing , project manager : yeah . marketing : and if we wanted to , project manager : yeah . marketing : so and , and we might , i mean , depending on what comes out of the design , we might have to stick to just black buttons . user interface : but um project manager : but what about the lighting up effect ? marketing : you mean different colours for the lighting or project manager : um , well , um , i thought we had um decided that we would if you touched one of the buttons they 'd all light up . and so if they were black , it would n't be possible for them to light up . marketing : mm-hmm . oh i see what you 're saying . project manager : if they were white they would glow , probably . marketing : well y project manager : if they were made out of rubber . marketing : oh so you 're picturing the light is coming from the back . i kinda pictured it as kind of coming from the sides and lighting it up frontwards . but , but i guess , you mean from the back . project manager : where would the light come from ? marketing : okay . industrial designer : i 'd assume , like , an internal light , that comes through . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so there would have to , have to be some parts maybe transparent around the buttons , or something . project manager : yeah , marketing : right . project manager : and well rubber is a more translucent product too , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : so we have that taken care of . industrial designer : it should be able to marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : in the phone that i was thinking of as well , when you change the um covers of it , the , the little buttons that actually , you know , that contro control stuff , are behind the rubber . industrial designer : li yeah . user interface : so you can change the buttons when you 're changing the faces . do you know what i mean ? marketing : oh . user interface : 'cause it 's just the wee control , marketing : yeah . they , they insert over . user interface : yeah , thing that 's behind it . marketing : okay . user interface : so i mean , we do n't have to decide on one colour . each face could have its own colour of buttons maybe ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : well , if they 're raised up buttons . so that you can feel them . user interface : yeah . project manager : we were talking about it being more um , a lot more tangible . um , it might be more difficult to do . if they 're , if they 're sticking up . user interface : yeah . project manager : if it 's flat then , like o like on a cellphone or a mobile phone , it 's like all very flat , and you just have to sort of press down on these tiny little buttons , but user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think it would be possible . i do n't think it would make that much difference . i mean , the uh the dimensions of it . 'cause if it 's just like constructed in the same way as like the front cover of a mobile phone . you can like take off the hard cover and then there 's the like say the buttons . and then you get to the circuit . i do n't think it would matter that the buttons were bigger through the , the top casing . i 'm sure you could f work it out to fit in the casing , without causing too much difficulty . project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : i 'm sure that 'd be fine . user interface : yeah . project manager : alright . if it 's do-able we can do . user interface : project manager : yeah , sounds good to me . industrial designer : user interface : so that 's everything , then ? industrial designer : okay . project manager : alright , thank you . marketing : okay is that my turn then ? project manager : that means you 're up . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : alright . i have a shorter report for you today . um , it took a while to get this , uh uh . industrial designer : you 're not plugged in yet . marketing : oh . user interface : marketing : that 's a very good point . project manager : user interface : marketing : okay , so um , this report is about uh trend-watching . um , basically so we can live up to our , our uh purpose of having a very fashionable remote control . sorry . there we go . um so , just so you know , my method was mainly web web-based research this time around . i also spoke with fashion experts in milan , new york and paris . and i looked at the design reports from previous years , here at real remote . um , just so c we can work off of them , see how fashions have changed . um , so i 'll list the three most important aspects that i 've come across . um , and they , they 're each more important than the one that comes after it . uh , the first one is that there should be a fancy look-and-feel , instead of the current functional look-and-feel . um , this should be our priority , as we 've been saying . the second most important aspect is that a remote sh that the remote control should be technologically innovative . so , i think we 've done a lot of talking about that , just with lighting and the buttons and the face-plates . um , so it looks like we 'll be able to keep on track with that . and the third most important aspect is that the remote control should be easy to use . so , pretty basic there . and the recent fashion update , uh , according to fashion-watchers in paris and milan , is that fruit and vegetables will be the most important theme for clothes , shoes and furniture . um , also , in contra uh in contrast to last year , the feel of the material is expected to be spongy . again , we 've already discussed that with rubber versus hard plastic buttons . um so , my personal preferences here , um of course , as we , we 've already talked about the personal face-plates in this meeting , and i 'd like to stick to that . the fruits and vegetable themes , i do n't know if that 's going to work for us . it sounds something that you 'd use on kitchenware . i do n't know if we wan na do it on remotes . user interface : marketing : it could be one of the options . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : maybe for the television that people have in their kitchen . um , the temporary light-up idea , sounds like we 're gon na stick to that . and then , uh , tying in a trendy look with user-friendliness . project manager : yeah . yeah , it 's the fruits and vegetables is the only area that i find rather jarring . everything else we can really , we can really industrial designer : it is strange . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um , do , according to our plans already , given the market . but fruits and vegetables seems a very strange idea for a remote control . marketing : it 's , it 's a little but it , it 's everywhere . industrial designer : well user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so maybe we i 've seen a lot of purses with olives on them , you know . user interface : project manager : yeah . marketing : but i i think , i think if we stick to tv based , you know , maybe tv shows , or project manager : but they still need to um fit into people 's decor though . user interface : yeah . marketing : or colour schemes . industrial designer : we i think we possibly could take a more abstract design . marketing : right . industrial designer : like look at the basic shapes of different fruits and vegetables . and then just really like strip it down to like really basic shapes . i mean we do n't have to make something in the shape of a strawberry , but it could have the curves of a strawberry , or something . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : or a strawberry seed or a leaf . user interface : yeah , yeah . marketing : the the essence of strawberry . yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or just like you know really make it a quite abstract , if that 's fits in more with what we 're doing . instead of fruits and vegetables , user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : just if you look at it straightforward , it 's a bit yeah . it does n't s quite fit in with the trendy well , obviously it does , if that 's the current theme . project manager : yeah . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : but may maybe we could go more directly , i do n't know . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but initially , i dunno . i think if we just sort of tone it down a bit . project manager : tone it down . yeah , industrial designer : yeah and like not , not marketing : i guess , yeah . project manager : like more like photos of fruit , on , on our product . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : or banana-shaped . marketing : one thing i was thinking though is project manager : marketing : i dunno if you all remember from our kickoff meeting , we talked about our favourite animals . user interface : yeah . marketing : so maybe there could be animal-based , you know . because a lot of people have a house cat . or , or a dog . um , that might be getting , you know , too specific , and we should see what the success of the first face-plates are . but it 's something to keep in mind . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and , did you have any questions ? pretty straightforward ? project manager : yeah um industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : alright , given that information , we need to start making some more specific decisions . so i 'll need to um hook up the powerpoint again . marketing : there you go . have you guys been saving your powerpoint presentations to the industrial designer : i did n't for the first one . but i have now . marketing : okay . project manager : but it 's still around right ? industrial designer : yeah . uh , hopefully project manager : okay . user interface : where do you have to save it to ? industrial designer : . project documents i think . user interface : okay . project manager : okay . i 'm just trying to make this pop up now . alright . here we go . okay so we have to uh decide now exactly what we are going to do . so energy , we industrial designer : okay . project manager : oh . oh no i ca n't write it in when it 's in this setting . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : does anyone know how to take it out of um , user interface : just escape i think . marketing : the powerpoint ? project manager : yeah . yeah . okay . um , so back to decisions . energy , we 've decided on kinetic , right ? industrial designer : kinetic yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , so that 's good . industrial designer : are we going to have a backup ? or do we just project manager : but would a backup really be necessary ? i mean will people just use the battery if there 's no , if there 's , industrial designer : i think maybe we could just go for the kinetic energy , project manager : if there is backup . industrial designer : and be bold and innovative , user interface : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and hope this works , and well hope that it works . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think project manager : there 's like no reason why it would n't work , right ? industrial designer : yeah . i think no . i , i think we should just like take uh advantage of like using this to its full potential . marketing : so project manager : yeah . it could even be one of our selling points . industrial designer : go for it . it could be user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : fully kinetic energy . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : environmentally conscious or something . industrial designer : is everyone happy with that ? marketing : so if it 's not working they just have to shake it a bit and that revitalises it ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : hope so . marketing : okay . project manager : alright , the next um decision is chip on print . i do n't exactly know what that means . industrial designer : um , it was whether we went for the simple , the regular , or the advanced chip . and that linked in with what buttons we would gon na have , so project manager : right , and we were going for more simplistic style , right ? industrial designer : yeah , it was user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so that was without the lcd . so that means we 're not doing the advanced . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so it depends on whether we wanted the scroll buttons or just the push buttons . project manager : i think we decided on the pushbuttons , right ? industrial designer : uh , so that 's the simple . user interface : yeah . i don project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : would we need a more advanced one for uh the lighting , the interior lighting system ? industrial designer : yeah possibly . project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : so , it 's probably gon na be the regular chip that we 're going to need . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so it 's a medium . project manager : that 's called medium , or regular ? industrial designer : so regular chip . regular sorry . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : regular chip . marketing : oh , is regular not simple ? industrial designer : lighting . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah if we user interface : it 's for the lighting , yeah . industrial designer : because of the lighting that we 've decided to put in as well . marketing : right right right . project manager : okay , and cases . um , does this , is this dependent on shape , or what it 's made of , or what ? industrial designer : so th i think this is just like gon na be the a very outer case , which we will decide on rubber . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . well , i guess plastic and coated in rubber . industrial designer : rubber . user interface : yeah industrial designer : yeah . project manager : plastic with rubber industrial designer : plastic rubber coat . user interface : plastic coat . project manager : coating and interchangeable um industrial designer : interchangeable , yeah . still going for that . project manager : yeah , interchangeable plates . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . user interface concept . this is your time to shine . user interface : we decided on the component . i , i i 'm sorry , i 've lost my um powerpoint thing , so i ca n't remember what it 's ca it 's the component industrial designer : your screen ? marketing : think it was called command interface . industrial designer : was it project manager : oh , yeah . yeah . marketing : command interface , . user interface : the command inter project manager : command interface . industrial designer : ouch . user interface : the command line interface yeah . project manager : did you say command line ? okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : line interface . marketing : project manager : alright , and supplements . what 's that all about ? user interface : um , i think that is marketing : project manager : user interface : well we have n't really made any decisions about what we 're gon na do about the cluster of button functions , colours and forms , in the in consistent use . like what what are ideas to combat these problems ? project manager : um user interface : you know how um different interfaces are very different , and can be confusing because because of their difference , and because of the different clusters of buttons that they have . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : we have n't really decided what to do about that . project manager : um , what are our choices here ? user interface : well it 's just um w where where shall we locate the buttons . what kind of functions wi shall we have ? project manager : you mean like we 'll have the numbers of the channels , and we 'll have the channel-changer , and volume , and power ? industrial designer : the power . volume . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um user interface : so pretty just just the basic button functions . project manager : yeah . like i do n't know if we should go into like adjusting light levels , things like that , because different televisions will have industrial designer : may yeah . project manager : um , yeah . industrial designer : tone , contrast , and things . that 's a bit marketing : that was on , um one of my presentations . about how often it was used . industrial designer : yeah , it was minima marketing : do you remember that ? industrial designer : well , it was n't the l project manager : yeah , it was hardly ever used really . user interface : yeah . marketing : i w should i bring it up ? project manager : yeah . and most televisions will come with a remote . industrial designer : yeah . that would be good . yeah , and surely that would be like quite specific to the individual television , user interface : yeah , each television . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so project manager : 'kay , well we know we want numbers . marketing : the ch t screen settings was used um zero point five times an hour . so tw twice every once every two hours . um , and it was considered a one point five relevance , on a scale of ten . that 's brightness , colour , tone , all that . industrial designer : mm . i think most of that comes like on the i individual television set itself , user interface : you do n't change that often , yeah . industrial designer : does n't it ? i 'm sure it has its own buttons , so you do n't necessarily need to have it on remote . project manager : yeah , it does . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , and different televisions . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . project manager : like we , i do n't know if we can make a remote that would be universal to all the different kinds of industrial designer : yeah . project manager : changes like that . industrial designer : so we 're just going for power , channels , volume , project manager : volume . marketing : the other one was audio settings . mono , stereo , pitch . i mean i sometimes use that . some tvs will have the option of like living room style , movie style , um user interface : yeah . marketing : and that , they say that 's used zero point eight times an hour , which is actually somewhat high . like almost once an hour . project manager : yeah . marketing : um , relevance of two . project manager : oh . we have five minutes to finish our meeting . user interface : project manager : crap . okay , um , let 's do this fast . um industrial designer : marketing : well that did n't some up on mine . project manager : should we have audio ? it only comes up on mine usually . user interface : it w it would seem silly if we 'd having anything else , just have an audio button though . project manager : yeah , user interface : do you know ? project manager : i do n't , i it 's , it 's a problem with the international uh appeal , i think . um , if we have audio because we do n't know how other televisions work . but we know that everyone has this and it 's the same . user interface : but we industrial designer : i 've marketing : yeah i guess that it affects the marketing , 'cause it , mm it is a good sales ploy to say , are n't you annoyed with remote controls that have all these buttons . user interface : yeah . marketing : this one has channel , volume and your channe and your power . industrial designer : yeah , that 's it . we can just go for , make it a selling point that it is just the basic . user interface : that could be a sales pitch . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : simple and project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah uh i marketing : okay . project manager : alright . industrial designer : brilliant . user interface : yeah . project manager : good . and , okay , in closing , 'cause we only have five minutes . we 'll be meeting again in thirty minutes . um , you 'll be working , poppy will be working on the look-and-feel design . wait a minute . is that right ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yep , and um the user interface design , so this is where the trendy stuff comes in . and you 'll be evaluating the product . um , poppy and tara will have to work together , using modelling clay . user interface : project manager : and , um , your personal coach will give you the rest of the information of what needs to happen . industrial designer : okay . project manager : alright . so , anyone else have something to say ? industrial designer : um , i just have one question about the whole fruit and vegetable aspect . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : are we seeing as that was the most popular thing that came up out of your market research , i thi i think we should keep to that rather than moving to animals or something , because even if that may not seem obvious to us , if that 's what the surveys brought out , i think that we should probably go along with that . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : um , so i suppose that 'll come out in our dev design development . but you 're happy to go ahead with the fruit and veg ? marketing : now do you guys need want an idea of how many uh are you gon na come up with casing ideas ? industrial designer : y yeah . marketing : like f five different user interface : yeah . project manager : five . . user interface : what i what i was thinking what do yous think of this ? um , having the numbers kind of like , not a bunch of grapes , but you know like purple and kind of in a triangle . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : like grapes . like that 's kind of fruity or something . marketing : yeah you can have some fun with the buttons , it 's true . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : that 's just industrial designer : we can have a look at those ideas , yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : project manager : yeah . marketing : i guess what you i ideally you 'd kind of think of age markets as well . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it 's a something that will , you know , appeal to the fifteen to twenty five year olds . something that your granny would want on her remote control . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um , and international tastes as well , so project manager : yeah . industrial designer : tricky . a lot of things to consider . hm . user interface : marketing : not easy . project manager : yeah . lots of user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . alright . industrial designer : okay . project manager : 'kay we 'll stick to the fruit and veggie theme then . user interface : project manager : alright . and , um , we 'll reconvene in thirty minutes . marketing : project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : thank you . user interface : marketing : </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the options for energy sources . </s> industrial designer : okay , there are lots of different possibilities for the energy source . we could use a basic battery , but that brings with it , like they need to be recharged and the bulk , the size of it as well . and they 're not so great to dispose of , environmentally . there 's a hand-powered dynamo which is a sort of thing that was used for torches fifty years ago . a bit out of date . kinetic energy is something that 's been recently developed . project manager : um what is a hand-powered dynamo ? industrial designer : um , where you manually charge up the power . project manager : just every , every once in a while ? industrial designer : like you wind up something . project manager : just every once in a while or constantly ? industrial designer : sorry ? yeah . every once in a while i think project manager : alright . it 'd be kind of strange to always be cranking it i think . industrial designer : . but it 's yeah . it would be like going a step back in time . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i do n't think it would really be with kind of cutting edge technology . project manager : no . marketing : industrial designer : whereas kinetic energy is a new idea that 's being used by some watches and other devices , where you just shake the device and it gives it power . i mean , the kinetic energy is transformed into power to make the circuit work . um , or there 's solar power , which we 've been considering inside a building , which is where it 's gon na be used , might not be quite so useful . project manager : right . industrial designer : but , good to look into , renewable energy , always the way . um , lots of considerations for the case , like what sort of shape it would be , curved or flat . that 's got a lot to do with the ergonomics . like how it 's comfortable and s sits in the hand . we do n't want something that 's huge and you ca n't pick up . or too small . or too slidy . i know i 've had a remote control before which you could n't tell which was the front and the back , project manager : alright . i like the kinetic energy source idea . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , i do n't know when people will , um , be moving a remote around a lot . industrial designer : i thought that was project manager : but i think that it 's worth it , kinetety , kinetic um user interface : yeah , tha marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : energy source . it could make an we could have any kind of style . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it would n't be as heavy or bulky , and industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . just for environmental reasons . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : marketing : i guess it 's a bit scary 'cause it has n't been done before . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it seems we 'd have to do more research on it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : or i dunno if you could have a battery pack . industrial designer : like as a backup for something . user interface : backup . yeah . marketing : yeah so there 's there is a one battery , because most remotes use two batteries i believe . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so , if it was running off of one battery as a user interface : that would be good yeah . industrial designer : yeah . some alternative just in case something went wrong . marketing : right . user interface : maybe we could you were saying about um solar power ma maybe not working indoors , but a lot of calculators , yeah , have solar power . industrial designer : that 's true . i just thought of that . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : so maybe that could be incorporated as industrial designer : may maybe that could be the backup . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : instead of a battery . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : like solar backup . marketing : although it needs some light , does n't it ? industrial designer : yeah . i suppose project manager : yeah , you can watch a tv in the dark then . user interface : do , do those calculators industrial designer : s but some marketing : so , if we 're doing user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . if we 're industrial designer : but thing is , it 's not you do n't need the solar all the time . user interface : i do n't know how it works . industrial designer : it can be stored . it can be like you can have the solar energy and then it can store that energy and use it . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it just needs to be in light for a certain amount of time per day . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like a few hours a day . . project manager : i think that might be a little impractical though . marketing : yeah . i think sometimes it 's just shoved under , under a cushion , project manager : yeah . marketing : and yeah . industrial designer : that 's true . it could easily user interface : yeah . project manager : like people do n't wan na have to worry about that . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i suppose it would be really annoying if you get to think , oh no , i forgot to charge my remote today . user interface : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like if the kinetic thing , i think what 's best about that is that it 's instant energy . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : you do n't have to , you know , you can shake it a few times , or whatever . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and it works . project manager : or just like pick it up when you 're gon na use it . industrial designer : yeah . instead of you do n't have to like make sure it 's in the right place to charge and . user interface : yeah , i suppose . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : alright . cool . industrial designer : k okay . project manager : yeah . yeah . okay . um , so back to decisions . energy , we 've decided on kinetic , right ? industrial designer : kinetic yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , so that 's good . industrial designer : are we going to have a backup ? or do we just project manager : but would a backup really be necessary ? i mean will people just use the battery if there 's no , if there 's , industrial designer : i think maybe we could just go for the kinetic energy , project manager : if there is backup . industrial designer : and be bold and innovative , user interface : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and hope this works , and well hope that it works . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think project manager : there 's like no reason why it would n't work , right ? industrial designer : yeah . i think no . i , i think we should just like take uh advantage of like using this to its full potential . marketing : so project manager : yeah . it could even be one of our selling points . industrial designer : go for it . it could be user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : fully kinetic energy . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : environmentally conscious or something . industrial designer : is everyone happy with that ? marketing : so if it 's not working they just have to shake it a bit and that revitalises it ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : hope so . </s>
<s> why did industrial designer think rubber casing was the best when talking about the options for materials ? </s> industrial designer : um , we also can choose what materials um , the we could use metal , we could use rubber which might be more um ideal for the anti-r_s_i_ . it 's like the same sort of rubber that 's used in stress balls and things like that , so it 's very like soft , not so stressful on your hands . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : wood . project manager : industrial designer : um , again , stepping back in time again there . user interface : industrial designer : i do n't think that 's quite up to date with what we 're looking for here . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um , titanium is not gon na be possible , even though it just it beyond our budget really . but , would 've been maybe for future projects . um right our choice for buttons as well . we 've developed some we 've got some good advances in technology , with our research team have found some uh new multiple um option scroll buttons . i think that was brought up for , um , they 're basically quite a flexible design , modern , you do n't have to use individual buttons . you can just slide up and down . i 'm sure we 're all quite familiar with those on mobiles or computer laptop pads . rubber casing i thing would probably the best , if we 're going for the anti-r_s_i_ and like more choice with um aesthetics . like it could be pretty much any colour we want . um , and gives you , yeah , more flexibility there . and probably the regular chip as opposed to the simple , marketing : industrial designer : then we could possibly have the scroll and the push , but no lcd , 'cause we probably ca n't afford that one . project manager : yeah . um , one concern with the rubber casing is that it would be rubber encapsulating all of these chips and diodes and delicate technology as industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : like as the exterior . this is the one thing that 's protecting its innards . industrial designer : i think that would , uh there would be an in sort of more internal casing . and the rubber would just be the , what 's in contact with the human . project manager : yeah . another thing is it might be more difficult if it 's a rubber exterior talking about putting on interchangeable plates . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , is it industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i do n't see how a like a rubber plate going on top it would stay there . like if it was sort of like a clip-on plastic plate . it would work that way . industrial designer : maybe if the , um , if it was just kind of a , more of a rubber coating which was on to a case . so , it was kind of , the whole thing would be removable . user interface : like plastic with rubber , kind of on top industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like i ca n't think of what . user interface : well , there 's , there is a certain phone that has like a rubber casing , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . or like an user interface : b like a nokia it is . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you can get sort of outer casing for ipods and something , that 's just it 's protective as well . user interface : it 's yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : like the skin ? industrial designer : it , it stops it , i mean , marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about the command interface when talking about user interface types ? </s> user interface : but um i think we 're gon na go with the command interface anyway , project manager : yeah . user interface : to make it more simplistic . but the , we could incorporate some of the graphical user um points , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : as in just to make it m um nicer to look at maybe . project manager : what do you mean ? user interface : like i ca n't think of an example , but sort of like little pictures rather than project manager : oh yeah , like how the buttons user interface : like a little sound . instead of saying volume , like a little speaker or something . project manager : yeah , as a button though . user interface : yeah , something y project manager : so , it 's a keyboard in the shape of it , right ? user interface : yeah m perha yeah . yeah . maybe . project manager : okay . yeah . i like that idea . user interface : um , the co uh we 've decided that the command interface would be the most useful for a remote control . as it would be less complicated , and the controls would be more user-friendly . um , the remote control would be cheaper to design , so that we 'd have more money in the budget to , um , target the design area of the interface . you know , make it more trendy and original . we 'll have more money if we keep it simple . project manager : yeah . i 'm sure i like kinetic energy would probably dip into the budget . a bit more too , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . seeing as it 's quite a new technology . um we , we also have to keep in mind when we 're designing our , um , more user-friendly remote control , that a lot of interfaces consist of a clutter of buttons , that , um , that their functions , colours and forms are n't always helpful . industrial designer : yeah . that 's true . that 's in like the buttons with all the different like colours for different choices and things . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it can be a bit , yeah , overwhelming . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the trend-watching for remote control . </s> marketing : okay , so um , this report is about uh trend-watching . um , basically so we can live up to our , our uh purpose of having a very fashionable remote control . sorry . there we go . um so , just so you know , my method was mainly web web-based research this time around . i also spoke with fashion experts in milan , new york and paris . and i looked at the design reports from previous years , here at real remote . um , just so c we can work off of them , see how fashions have changed . um , so i 'll list the three most important aspects that i 've come across . um , and they , they 're each more important than the one that comes after it . uh , the first one is that there should be a fancy look-and-feel , instead of the current functional look-and-feel . um , this should be our priority , as we 've been saying . the second most important aspect is that a remote sh that the remote control should be technologically innovative . so , i think we 've done a lot of talking about that , just with lighting and the buttons and the face-plates . um , so it looks like we 'll be able to keep on track with that . and the third most important aspect is that the remote control should be easy to use . so , pretty basic there . and the recent fashion update , uh , according to fashion-watchers in paris and milan , is that fruit and vegetables will be the most important theme for clothes , shoes and furniture . um , also , in contra uh in contrast to last year , the feel of the material is expected to be spongy . again , we 've already discussed that with rubber versus hard plastic buttons . um so , my personal preferences here , um of course , as we , we 've already talked about the personal face-plates in this meeting , and i 'd like to stick to that . the fruits and vegetable themes , i do n't know if that 's going to work for us . it sounds something that you 'd use on kitchenware . i do n't know if we wan na do it on remotes . user interface : marketing : it could be one of the options . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : maybe for the television that people have in their kitchen . um , the temporary light-up idea , sounds like we 're gon na stick to that . and then , uh , tying in a trendy look with user-friendliness . project manager : yeah . yeah , it 's the fruits and vegetables is the only area that i find rather jarring . everything else we can really , we can really industrial designer : it is strange . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um , do , according to our plans already , given the market . but fruits and vegetables seems a very strange idea for a remote control . marketing : it 's , it 's a little but it , it 's everywhere . industrial designer : well user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so maybe we i 've seen a lot of purses with olives on them , you know . user interface : project manager : yeah . marketing : but i i think , i think if we stick to tv based , you know , maybe tv shows , or project manager : but they still need to um fit into people 's decor though . user interface : yeah . marketing : or colour schemes . industrial designer : we i think we possibly could take a more abstract design . marketing : right . industrial designer : like look at the basic shapes of different fruits and vegetables . and then just really like strip it down to like really basic shapes . i mean we do n't have to make something in the shape of a strawberry , but it could have the curves of a strawberry , or something . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : or a strawberry seed or a leaf . user interface : yeah , yeah . marketing : the the essence of strawberry . yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or just like you know really make it a quite abstract , if that 's fits in more with what we 're doing . instead of fruits and vegetables , user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : just if you look at it straightforward , it 's a bit yeah . it does n't s quite fit in with the trendy well , obviously it does , if that 's the current theme . project manager : yeah . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : but may maybe we could go more directly , i do n't know . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but initially , i dunno . i think if we just sort of tone it down a bit . project manager : tone it down . yeah , industrial designer : yeah and like not , not marketing : i guess , yeah . project manager : like more like photos of fruit , on , on our product . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : or banana-shaped . marketing : one thing i was thinking though is </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think about vegetable and fruit themes when talking about trend-watching ? </s> industrial designer : but if we 're having a simplified display anyway , w that , we probably wo n't have to focus so much on that . project manager : yeah , we 'll be doing industrial designer : it 'll be more the on the numbers and the volume . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . it 'd be more a command interface , and then industrial designer : i suppose we need to think of symbols for like the volume , display , and stuff like that . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so it 's just draf graphical for the pointing aspect ? industrial designer : i marketing : the infrared is like , that 's considered a user interface : no i think it 's to do with the actual symbols that are on the , that 's on the buttons of the remote control , and per marketing : okay . so when it says pointing device that does n't include industrial designer : for inp user interface : well it could be a wee scroller thing , and something could come up on the screen . project manager : yeah . i think they 're talking about lcd type things . marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . user interface : but um i think we 're gon na go with the command interface anyway , project manager : yeah . user interface : to make it more simplistic . but the , we could incorporate some of the graphical user um points , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : as in just to make it m um nicer to look at maybe . project manager : what do you mean ? user interface : like i ca n't think of an example , but sort of like little pictures rather than project manager : oh yeah , like how the buttons user interface : like a little sound . instead of saying volume , like a little speaker or something . project manager : yeah , as a button though . industrial designer : um , i just have one question about the whole fruit and vegetable aspect . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : are we seeing as that was the most popular thing that came up out of your market research , i thi i think we should keep to that rather than moving to animals or something , because even if that may not seem obvious to us , if that 's what the surveys brought out , i think that we should probably go along with that . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah . </s>
<s> what was the decision of the discussion of the chip ? </s> project manager : alright , the next um decision is chip on print . i do n't exactly know what that means . industrial designer : um , it was whether we went for the simple , the regular , or the advanced chip . and that linked in with what buttons we would gon na have , so project manager : right , and we were going for more simplistic style , right ? industrial designer : yeah , it was user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so that was without the lcd . so that means we 're not doing the advanced . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so it depends on whether we wanted the scroll buttons or just the push buttons . project manager : i think we decided on the pushbuttons , right ? industrial designer : uh , so that 's the simple . user interface : yeah . i don project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : would we need a more advanced one for uh the lighting , the interior lighting system ? industrial designer : yeah possibly . project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : so , it 's probably gon na be the regular chip that we 're going to need . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so it 's a medium . project manager : that 's called medium , or regular ? industrial designer : so regular chip . regular sorry . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : regular chip . marketing : oh , is regular not simple ? industrial designer : lighting . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah if we user interface : it 's for the lighting , yeah . industrial designer : because of the lighting that we 've decided to put in as well . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay , welcome to the detailed design meeting . again , i 'm gon na take minutes . oh , we 're gon na have a prototype presentation first . uh , who 's gon na give the prototype presentation ? you two guys ? okay . go ahead . industrial designer : yes . user interface : . marketing : . user interface : coffee . marketing : industrial designer : 'kay , we 've made a prototype . um , we 've got uh uh our aspects from the last meeting . uh , especially we looked at the form , material and the colour . um , we 've uh drawn here the p prototype . the logo is uh is uh is pretty uh obvious to see on the on the remote control , user interface : industrial designer : but it is necessary when you want to build your uh company f to a level higher . um , our interface elements , there are shown in the in the drawing . maybe you can uh point them uh the functions . user interface : uh , well the uh all the functions are discussed uh i think the most of the functions are uh uh obvious . uh , it 's a little bit . uh , power button . uh then the the the nine uh channels . project manager : user interface : uh the volume uh uh at the side , and the other side is the programmes . and then we had uh just uh two buttons , we place them in the middle , uh the menu , and for the teletext project manager : oh no , the the the mute button misses now . user interface : i thought that was th marketing : alright , i project manager : do y do you user interface : oh , the mute button . project manager : did we want to have a m mute button ? industrial designer : but uh that marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it 's uh here then , in the middle . user interface : yeah . marketing : alright , and uh you got ta point out which is the volume um uh button and which is the programme button . industrial designer : yes , um user interface : well , yeah mo uh mo industrial designer : we 've disc user interface : yeah , well most of them are right-handed . industrial designer : most of the users marketing : yeah , but you you got ta make it clear on the on user interface : yeah well , i do n't have time in uh anymore on the industrial designer : yes , y there there will be a p a little a little p_ on that and a little uh yeah . marketing : yeah , and a and a triangle on that . user interface : oh yeah , just progr programme above , i think . marketing : yes . next to that i kinda miss a zero actually . user interface : project manager : wait , there 's was one thing i wanted to ask . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : project manager : uh , there are different ways for remote controls to uh do uh like marketing : project manager : uh d i call it teens and twenties . uh , y th th th the two numbers . marketing : all n no , that 's um kinda dependent on the television . user interface : yeah , true , yeah . industrial designer : it 's a television . yes . project manager : yeah , but do we have do we need extra buttons , user interface : uh project manager : for example some uh some have to user interface : uh i think so . marketing : i think industrial designer : yes , yes , you have you have a lot of standard buttons that has to be uh on it , uh th with the one and a double uh uh marketing : yeah , i think you should add user interface : zero ? marketing : a cross , or whatever . yeah , line . project manager : yeah , but you do n't you do n't actually need them , user interface : may maybe here ? project manager : becau b l a lot of remote controls work that y when y that you when you fir you push the one first , then you have a couple of seconds user interface : yeah . and then a second . marketing : no , that 's dependent on the television . project manager : no , i do n't think so . industrial designer : yes , you have televisions , then you have to , you know , you have to uh press marketing : i do know so . user interface : is it depending on television ? project manager : nah , i do n't think so really , marketing : yeah . project manager : because you have a i know some remote controls that do n't have these buttons , but you still can , know , obviously you can still select the twenty uh a number in the twenty or in the ten . industrial designer : yes , but but a lot uh marketing : yes , but uh uh no uh remote control nowadays are um they come with the television . or actually , the other way around . project manager : no , i think uh i really think it 's n marketing : but project manager : because you can when when you put a button on it with like one and uh then a dash , it 's the same thing as when you just push the one , marketing : yeah . project manager : because it i it first gives you the functionality of that that uh separate button you also had to uh apply . industrial designer : yes , but marketing : yeah , well but su if industrial designer : some televisions do n't accept uh that that project manager : yeah , because that 's i it 's for television . it 's exact the same thing . industrial designer : no , no , but s marketing : no no no . so some television respond differently . look , if uh i i project manager : no , listen listen . when you push the button , the remote control gives a signal . i in th in the first place it gives a signal which it would also send when you put a separate button on it . marketing : yes . yes , that 's true . project manager : the one with dash , that signal gi and when y whe when you do n't push another button on the remote control within five seconds , then the remote control gives a signal for channel one . user interface : yeah . true . marketing : no project manager : i think it works that way , really . marketing : no , it it it works uh if you have n't got uh a special button for it , uh if you push a one , then on your television there will appear a one and a a line , which is an empty space . project manager : yeah , but it 's exact the same that w would appear when you put a separate button push a separate button . industrial designer : yes , but some some old televisions uh you have to uh click on uh a special button , uh then you go to a a next level , you can push two buttons . project manager : yeah , but you do n't underst uh you do n't understand my point . marketing : yep . true . project manager : i think it 's exact the same thing when y industrial designer : you want yes , but some television do n't support it . project manager : no , but then they would a would also support that button , because it 's the same thing . user interface : but the ex project manager : listen , with that that 's that special but button you 're talking about , eh ? that 's just a signal to recei ju they send a t signal to the v tv tv that they have to put a one in on your screen and a dash , which you can pu so you can uh still put another number on it . when you do n't have that separate button , and you push y one , it 's exactly the same thing . do y you the remote control gives that same signal as it would give when you only had marketing : no , s some some televisions need the input first uh and and you c industrial designer : a remote can project manager : yeah . but you give the input . industrial designer : so they need no , they need project manager : you push the one . that 's the same thing as the button with the one and it marketing : no , that 's not true . project manager : yes it it is . marketing : it 's simply not true . it 's simply not true . project manager : think about it . user interface : yeah . you uh you can wai when you push the one you can show on the telly a one and just a dash , and then wait uh two uh seconds or something industrial designer : but uh marketing : uh project manager : and it 's the same thing what happens and a g remote control gives another signal after five seconds that is just one . marketing : no , remote control does n't give signal after five seconds . remote control is a stupid thing . if you push a button , it sends it immediately to to the television . project manager : yeah , that 's true . yeah , but i m uh but it 's i i know for sure that some televisions that w th th the remote control supplied , only ha has the c these buttons with a one and a dash and a two and a dash , but when you use a bu a n remote control that does n't sport these buttons , it still works . industrial designer : yeah , it project manager : but okay , we we 'll impl marketing : no , definitely not . definitely not . user interface : we 'll discuss them in the usability lab . project manager : no , we 'll apply them then for now . user interface : uh eva evaluation . marketing : user interface : i do n't know uh i do n't know if if it 's it 's necessary . project manager : yeah , app just apply them next to the zero , the one and the two . user interface : yeah ? project manager : yeah , i think so . yeah , for now , if we do n't know for sure whether user interface : okay . industrial designer : and the button for the scart uh audio video uh external input . project manager : yeah but marketing : uh , you can access that uh via zero , and then minus , i guess . project manager : okay . what i said about uh the remote control sending another signal , that that might not be true , marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : but i still think i it it all tvs in some ways support it , i do n't know . i think it 's more c is m maybe we do n't uh we both do n't really understand how it i how it really works , industrial designer : no , no . project manager : but i think there 's more to in than wha than what you just said . industrial designer : uh , remote control sends one signal at one button uh press . project manager : i do think that uh m tvs support mur multiple kind of remote controls . m industrial designer : uh , some n some televisions when when you want to go further than uh ten project manager : th wo n't work wi with uh industrial designer : no , you have to you have to uh give the television uh two or more signals . project manager : to have that special button . industrial designer : when you uh press one button , you give one signal . and the older televisions need more signals to go a level higher . but project manager : okay , well we 'll see . industrial designer : when you make the technology that that it will uh give more signals , it could work , but just a basic idea of of of the most uh most y most common uh and simple uh operations on the remote . marketing : okay . i kinda miss the docking station . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yes . it 's here on the user interface : marketing : user interface : well it industrial designer : user interface : yeah , uh there 's nothing i think it 's pretty basic , industrial designer : we came uh user interface : the the there 's no fu there 's one there 's one button , marketing : no nothing really trendy about it . user interface : that 's wha there 's there 's there 's one function and that 's n the one button when you want to find it . industrial designer : but maybe we can maybe we can make the docking station uh uh a bit standard for for uh the other products we sell , marketing : the button . industrial designer : because real real reaction sells more products than only remote controls . so maybe we can uh use the docking station , for example , uh m_p_ three players or or uh uh hearing devices . marketing : i think that 's very difficult , because of different shapes of uh uh devices . industrial designer : yes , but when you put that same volt voltages on it , you can put uh when the when the when uh o the the the lowest part of it , when it 's o the same as the other products , you can put it all on the same uh marketing : yeah , of course . mm-hmm . well it it got it it has got to fit into the shape , of course . industrial designer : yes , but we can make marketing : the technology and the voltage can be the same . that 's uh that 's true . but uh i if you all make the m having a bottom like this , then they all fit . industrial designer : no , we can make uh make the most lowest part all the same . marketing : yeah , that 's true , but uh industrial designer : when when the the recharger has a has a bit what points out , we can place all on top of it . just have to be big enough for the biggest marketing : yes , but uh i i g should n't it fall then ? it is n't going to fall down ? that 's a bit uh industrial designer : no , when you make it large enough no it it will not . marketing : yeah , i think industrial designer : but then it 's a little bit marketing : no , but if if like this , i 'll i 'll point it out , if you got uh a a a base a base like this , industrial designer : but it 's just an idea . marketing : i wo n't draw it really . if you got a base which is uh as big as this industrial designer : but it 's flat it 's flat as as this , so we can p make all the products as flat as this . user interface : you can . but i i i it 's backwards . marketing : yeah sure , but if you got if you got a tiny player , it can industrial designer : yes , but when you make uh uh a bit of big user interface : but it 's it 's backwards . it 's leaning . it 's leaning backwards , i think , in the in the docking station . marketing : yeah . uh , wha what you could do if you uh from the bottom user interface : that 's text . marketing : oh , right , help . project manager : but user interface : marketing : uh , you could make like a hole in it , you know , of uh in in the industrial designer : yes , little holer littler uh , little products go deeper in it . marketing : yeah . that i that is possible , yep . project manager : well let 's ha let 's talk about the docking station later , because uh maybe we have we have to uh consider the docking station anyway , because we have some uh cost issues still to come . marketing : yeah , sure , you 're right . industrial designer : yes . and uh uh project manager : but we have to look n i do n't know . industrial designer : the f the look and feel would be great on this uh remote control , because uh you always uh will uh pick up the remote control in the in the smallest uh area . marketing : i do n't like the colours . mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : then your uh left thumb of uh your right thumb is uh near the programme uh button , which is the most common used uh function , and all the other buttons are available for your uh thumb . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so it 's it 's it 's really good design . marketing : yeah . alright . project manager : yes . that 's it ? industrial designer : yes , uh on the side uh there will be a strip of rubber , and in the middle uh there is uh a hard uh a hard material , a bit hard plastic with a light uh behind it . marketing : the light . okay . and other lights ? project manager : i think added lights are gon na be a problem too . industrial designer : yes , we can make also n neon lights on it , or or the buttons that can make uh light on it . marketing : no , o on the on the front . yeah , okay . maybe the uh the logo . user interface : lights ? industrial designer : but , it will also uh uh use batteries , marketing : yeah , why not ? industrial designer : and do we want to marketing : of course . project manager : okay . for now , uh this is uh is good enough . yeah , what was uh on the marketing : okay . industrial designer : the all the aspects of the interface buttons were uh project manager : okay , but in the oh yeah , the colour , because we 're gon na use uh one colour for the the plastic enclosure and one colour for the rubber , is n't it ? then we 're gon na do the buttons in the i are we 're gon na have rubber buttons . and they 're be a they 'll be in the same colour as the rubber on the side . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh , in the same colour as the side . user interface : yeah . yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah , i think i think that 'll be good . project manager : okay . and i think we should use a a darker colour for the um plastic , and maybe some more m brighter and flashy stuff industrial designer : yes , maybe we can use on the on the lights on the side we can use uh uh multiple uh lights , so it will uh project manager : yeah , we 'll talk about the lights later . 'cause i also don yeah , it 's depends on the costs and such . but uh , and we have to agree uh upon the exact colours , marketing : yeah . project manager : but may i dunno if that 's important , but we 'll talk about that later . okay , for now this is this is okay . marketing : we will . project manager : um , the next p y you gon na give a presentation too ? uh , i have to see the agenda . marketing : well , uh yeah , i i 'm gon na do something right there , yeah . user interface : project manager : detail design . marketing : we got ta do that on the right the most right-most screen , because the leftmost project manager : evaluation criteria . marketing : yep , that 's me . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : alright . i will be needing that image , so leave it please . um go away . right , we 're gon na evaluate that design according to a few points . um , we g the four of us are going to do that um together . project manager : marketing : i wan na have a colour over here , come on . right , the remote is not ugly , a bit weird sentence , but the positive things has to be on the left , so i said not ugly instead of ugly . user interface : marketing : uh , what would you say , we we got ta give points to uh to all of these to evaluate uh that design , and please forget the drawing skills of these guys . user interface : project manager : okay . industrial designer : marketing : the remote control is not ugly . how do you feel ? project manager : yeah , i think four maybe would be appropriate , because it 's yeah , maybe it really depends on taste . uh , i mean it 's kind of , our design . it 's so if maybe a lot of people find it really ugly , you know , o other people find it really cool . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : background colour . project manager : i do n't know or uh i do n't know how you casting . yeah . industrial designer : i think i think the the fronts will give it a more uh uh uh less uglier uh side , because you can uh make it in your own marketing : how do you guys feel ? the different designs . industrial designer : yes , you can make it in your own uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : more to your own personality or or house style . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah , but we d we did n't we 're we 're not planning to use fronts , i believe . marketing : no , not not fronts , but different designs . project manager : with a colour a co a colours . oh , okay . user interface : no , not fronts . different designs . different colours maybe , yeah . marketing : and that 's still uh uh , yeah , is is uh is a little personal touch , i guess . project manager : okay , but oh , maybe we should do three or something that w you know , our marketing : what ? yeah , wha wha what would you uh guys uh think ? personally . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or forty . user interface : we can make it a one . marketing : personally . yes , but what is it ? industrial designer : i think two or three . user interface : mm yeah . marketing : guido ? user interface : i agree . marketing : two or three . user interface : um , i uh i go for the positive . so i go for two . marketing : i was i was thinking about three , so i guess project manager : uh , i was thinking about four , so i think three is uh user interface : okay , three . marketing : three is uh a bit uh oh , what am i doing ? i 'll mark it . the remote control 's uh uh that n makes uh zapping easy . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah well , let that let 's make that a one . user interface : two . one . one . marketing : yeah ? antek , you agree ? user interface : okay yeah , i 'll i 'll agree . project manager : that 's one thing for sure . marketing : yeah . you 're not antek . user interface : i 'm the i 'm the usability , so marketing : i totally agree . the remote control the remote control 's relevant buttons are prominently visible . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , two or a one , i guess . user interface : the project manager : it 's something we really put work into . marketing : yeah , i yeah . industrial designer : it 's all about the buttons . marketing : i would say a one because uh every button is uh uh relevant . and our oh yeah , it 's a b yeah . yeah ? alright . that 's a one ? you agree ? project manager : yeah . marketing : the remote control has n't got too much redundant or unneeded buttons . i think we totally succeeded there . project manager : but user interface : well project manager : well maybe a two , because of the menu button or something . marketing : oh user interface : yeah , well menu yeah , maybe . marketing : yeah , that 's true . that 's true . project manager : and telete industrial designer : also , the the the buttons of the one , the two , the the digits , project manager : yeah , we do n't know if the uh they 're necessary . industrial designer : o they 're used uh uh marketing : the the yeah , m well , you d you 've got a point . project manager : i think a two . user interface : yeah , true . yeah , i agree . industrial designer : can yes , three , two . project manager : came a long way , but not we did n't not uh marketing : two or three ? user interface : mm two . industrial designer : but you ca n't make a remote control without them , marketing : two ? antek . user interface : because we got industrial designer : because marketing : nay that that that 's true , that 's true . they 're definitely needed . project manager : no , w w it can also always be more simplistic , but two is marketing : so we put it on a two ? project manager : yeah . marketing : the remote control has got a really trendy look . user interface : industrial designer : yes . a one . project manager : yeah , uh a t i think a two . marketing : maarten . user interface : well . industrial designer : project manager : yeah yeah , y i it 's hard to say from this picture . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we we 've tried to make it uh the the best trendy look uh ever . user interface : yeah . marketing : ever , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : guido . project manager : but i do think it 's more user interface : uh , i will i will make it a three , because uh yeah . i i th project manager : but i do think that it 's more trendy than beautiful . marketing : yeah , uh i agree . i agree . project manager : so so i think maybe it has to score higher uh on this than on the user interface : yeah . true , yeah . marketing : i was planning to give it a two , uh where i give the not ugly uh project manager : a th a three . marketing : oh , yeah , that 's true . you agree on the two ? user interface : yeah . project manager : i i uh when you compare to the marketing : great . remote control has n't got too much redundant or unneeded buttons . project manager : uh uh what 's the difference with user interface : marketing : uh , i copied that one . well , uh forget that . project manager : okay . marketing : um go away . remote control has got innovative technology implanted . user interface : no . we 're not well , maybe the the the on the side . industrial designer : no , not lcd , so . project manager : yeah , but we uh you mean the rubber stuff ? marketing : yeah , and the light . project manager : yeah , but we have t we have to talk about the lights uh . user interface : and the light maybe . industrial designer : but that that 's not innovative . user interface : but project manager : and i do n't u also it 's also really not innovative , industrial designer : lights lights are marketing : well , i g project manager : it 's more marketing : it 's not seven ? project manager : no , six . or seven maybe , yeah . user interface : well , six . no , six . project manager : or six . marketing : why uh why not a seven ? project manager : yeah , mine is seven . industrial designer : because we 've tried to make it a little bit innovative , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but it but it project manager : uh it 's uh depends on the on the maybe industrial designer : with the lights it it 's it 's kind of future user interface : project manager : no , i think i think actually it 's a seven maybe , but there 's nothing innovative about it . marketing : yeah , you think the lights are innovative ? well , it 's n true . uh , i agree , industrial designer : but still you can retrieve it when it 's when it 's gone , with the with marketing : m but user interface : innovative in generally or just f original for marketing : i 'll yeah , you you did n't draw the docking station . industrial designer : yes . the docking station is a is a little bit innovative . project manager : n no no , marketing : yeah , it it 's i think i think with its project manager : t . user interface : a docking station is innova project manager : yeah , i mean the dock station , but but uh , i think the the docking station , it 's gon na be a kind of a problem . user interface : industrial designer : it 's a part of the remote . marketing : i think more m user interface : okay . industrial designer : and with the speaker on the there 's also a speaker . project manager : but marketing : uh that that 's n project manager : well , let 's leave it open for uh for us later to see what , because we have to reevaluate anyway . well i i yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : no uh , well , the agenda says evaluate now , so i think we project manager : okay , for now it 's a six or a seven uh , sev marketing : it 's it 's a six . project manager : six maybe , because industrial designer : but the retrieval or the marketing : that m f project manager : yeah , but i do n't i do n't know if it 's very inno yeah . marketing : yeah , for the retrieval function . yeah . i think that 's very innovative for a remote control . project manager : yeah , v industrial designer : yes , how would you innovate a remote control more ? project manager : yeah , more through uh like function tv functionalities and industrial designer : to put it on your head . project manager : no no , you know what i mean . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : you have must be innovative technology for remote controls , but more in how you control stuff , not in how you find your marketing : yeah sure , but project manager : yeah . yeah , it 's marketing : but i d i definitely do n't think it 's a five , project manager : that 's that 's think about it la later on marketing : but project manager : and uh marketing : remote control is easy to use . project manager : yeah , as a a one or a two ma uh at least . industrial designer : yes . user interface : yeah , a two . marketing : i think a two . project manager : yeah , it 's good . marketing : yeah ? user interface : more two . marketing : come on . the remote control has n't got uh . project manager : no , i would have seen that one before . oh , you skipped one uh industrial designer : marketing : i 've just filled uh project manager : uh , here . marketing : go away . industrial designer : you like the buttons . marketing : i found twelve questions so much , but it still is ten . project manager : remote control will be bought by marketing : it will be bought by people under the age of forty . project manager : yeah . definitely . well industrial designer : in in and comparing with uh people of th of the age above ? marketing : no no no . no , just if they if they buy it . project manager : uh , just in general . yeah , a two . industrial designer : we do n't know . but project manager : yeah , but i think i think two . marketing : yeah , what do you think ? user interface : yeah , i think two , yeah . i agree . two . marketing : antek ? industrial designer : yes , two , but only in c when you compare it with with elderly . project manager : uh , that is not the question . it 's just w it will be bought by people under forty . marketing : no , that 's no comparison . project manager : yeah , you can yeah , you can be very picky about it . marketing : and i do n't mean two people . industrial designer : this is just guessing . project manager : ah yeah , just make it we 'll make it a two . industrial designer : make it a two . when it succeeds , uh it can get a two , mu marketing : right , the rem the remote control has recognisable corporate image , colour , logo or slogan . project manager : oh no . yeah . yeah , you have make an user interface : we do n't have the slogan though . project manager : slogan is quite obvious . marketing : oh , the slogan . project manager : oh the oh sorry , no , not not the slogan . marketing : can we see the slogan ? project manager : yeah , you can put that on the side if if we would like to . user interface : the logo . industrial designer : a logo . user interface : underneath it or something . industrial designer : yes , uh encrypted uh with project manager : yeah , and i will i th still think it 's gon na be a two or a three . marketing : are we gon na do that ? user interface : a three . three . project manager : maybe a three this time . user interface : yeah , a three . marketing : three ? i agree . because of the slogan project manager : and uh marketing : remote control 's got a basic design intended uh for novice users . project manager : uh , it 's a one or a two . user interface : yeah , two . project manager : yeah , make it a two . marketing : two ? two . alright . we got ta add up the scores now to see our total average . four , five , seven , nine . forget that . fifteen , seventeen , twenty one , twenty four , twenty six . twenty six . it 's a two point six . project manager : it 's not that bad . marketing : alright , we project manager : yeah , and that 's mostly the inno marketing : yeah . project manager : when we uh score higher on innovative technology , we would score two , marketing : yeah . true . project manager : which is uh quite a great score . okay . uh , this is was uh the evaluation ? marketing : this was my evaluation . so project manager : because i i still think that the most important part of this meeting still has marketing : we did a pretty nice job until now . project manager : yeah . marketing : um , is this your industrial designer : is there something after this uh meeting ? or marketing : whatever . well , i think we got ta fill out another questionnaire . user interface : no . okay , yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : still opened or uh yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , finance . because um user interface : shoot . project manager : i received uh a spreadsheet . marketing : a five . a five . project manager : yeah , but i uh actually do n't need this presentation , i guess . oh . marketing : does n't matter . project manager : i 'm gon na open the spreadsheet and we 're gon na work this out together , because i did n't really fin uh i have a . did n't really finish it . well , we uh we 'll see . we 'll stumble upon some problems . marketing : we probably will . project manager : i probably have already opened it here . try it again . first of all , the mm all the docking station and costs and such are not included in this list . but let 's let 's st start with beginning . we include one battery . i i uh i 'll explain its uh , the the components are listed over here . uh , price is given . we um yeah , marketing : the amount , yeah . project manager : we we uh indicate the amount of components of the specif specific component , how much we need of them . and then uh , we 'll uh calcula do n't watch the number yet . i do n't know if it 's filled in properly . okay , we need one battery . one battery . i think one battery is enough . we do n't need kinetic , solar cells , hand dynamo . a s okay , this this is a p first problem . uh , i think we should know how many simple chips , regular chips industrial designer : uh it 's it 's one one chip , but but you have to choose one from it . project manager : okay . but industrial designer : the simple chip is e enough i i think , but with the lights with the lights and the retrieval , it can be uh marketing : i do n't know project manager : where did we find this information ? was it marketing : i have n't got an idea on on which we need to use , really . project manager : i think it was uh your job in the first uh meet uh , f your first presentation to make this clear , but then you had some t time problems . industrial designer : no , uh i yes , my my my uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : the the email i got said uh simple chip , but when we put in the speaker and the retriever uh device , it will uh cost a a bit more , like i think the advanced chip maybe . marketing : yeah . and how do you know ? i mean , you got that email . did it point out what to use them for ? industrial designer : bec no , the they did n't know about a retriever or a speaker uh in it . project manager : maybe you can uh look it up right now . okay , but okay . when we do n't when we leave the uh retriever and such aside , what industrial designer : then it 's a simple chip . project manager : then it would be a simple chip . and with the retriever , it would be an advanced chip . industrial designer : yes , i i i s i marketing : alright , well , point out the advanced chip for now , i guess . project manager : okay . industrial designer : that will be enough for future uh recommendations . project manager : yeah , but it will it will it will be cause a lot of problems . the sample sensor sample speaker . what is it m is that the speaker we were t i do n't know what it is . industrial designer : i do n't know it uh either . marketing : i do n't know . project manager : okay , we went for the double-curved case made out of plastic and rubber . and with a special colour . i guess that 's what we were user interface : well , special colour . . project manager : yeah , i do n't know about the special colour , but i think w uh industrial designer : otherwise , you get uh a standard uh plastic colour . user interface : i do n't marketing : i do n't know if it 's very special . project manager : yeah , i think we uh we have special colours . user interface : mm okay . industrial designer : standard rubber . marketing : alright , that 's okay . project manager : okay , then the push-button , i was just counting them . industrial designer : st project manager : uh , i think you have to indicate the amount of push-buttons we want to use , is n't it ? user interface : whoa , it 's a little project manager : well that 's bit of a problem , because i re but i really do n't understand that , because i can imagine a remote control with far more push-buttons , and it would n't be possible according to this uh sheet . user interface : that 's huge . no . we have the simplest buttons . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : no , it 's only uh when you use push-buttons , it will cost that much . marketing : i do n't think so , because it says amount . industrial designer : if you use a scroll-wheel project manager : ah . yeah , it would n't marketing : the the the yellow row is the amount of project manager : fill in the number of components you plan to use in the and the total cost i do n't know . i industrial designer : maybe it 's the kind of push-buttons . you can have f four kind of push-buttons . user interface : uh , one til nine . industrial designer : rubber . user interface : is that one or is that nine buttons ? industrial designer : you can have uh project manager : and i count them like this . one two three uh four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve and thirteen . user interface : yeah . project manager : because oh , this is oh , this is one , okay . twelve , okay , then it would be eighteen , because uh , i uh rated them as uh um as uh uh uh separate buttons . industrial designer : different , marketing : that 's total of four buttons . project manager : and plus these two , f uh plus the mute button , and it 's will be uh eighteen . marketing : i think that eighteen . one two three four five , si industrial designer : why is that so uh expensive . project manager : yeah , i do n't understand . y i do i do n't get the point , because it 's would be s relatively so expensive , just these m small buttons . user interface : is it cents , the the the fifty cents a button ? marketing : fifty cents for one single stupid button . user interface : no way . industrial designer : so , whe when you so then it project manager : well , okay , well well let 's make it just one . industrial designer : it 's eighty percent of the price of the of the amount of project manager : here , now it 's now it 's already s marketing : yeah , exactly . yeah . project manager : shall we just give our own interpretation to , user interface : project manager : because else we would really have a problem . it would be impossible to make it marketing : i ca n't user interface : it 's way marketing : i i i could n't understand it if it was fifty cents per uh uh per button . really . industrial designer : when you have the same amount of button , you have to put in wi in your carton . board . project manager : and and less buttons than this is n't possible . industrial designer : and then throw it marketing : yeah , yeah , industrial designer : project manager : this is the most simple user interface : no , no no . project manager : yeah , it is possible , but i 've never seen one before . industrial designer : but whe project manager : industrial designer : i 've seen one uh one remote control with only the pu yeah , only with uh page up , page down and volume , project manager : marketing : no , really . project manager : yeah , without the numbers . that 's possible . yeah , we could skip the numbers . user interface : yeah , uh industrial designer : but but marketing : yeah , but i d i would n't want to own that . really . user interface : that 's still four . industrial designer : uh , it 's it 's still for little children . they can handle that remote control , marketing : yeah . project manager : then uh , teletext would also be im impossible . industrial designer : but but it is n't fo yes , it 's for it 's li uh it 's just for a little user interface : yeah , that 's no option , that 's no option . project manager : okay , we 'll we 'll just okay . but then still , when we there 's no room for a docking station or something . tha w le let 's see th we have uh oh yeah , button supplements . we 'll give the buttons special colour . we 'll give them a special form . uh , i think we should mark the special form thing , because it this will be some special forms incorporated in these big buttons , i guess . user interface : a special colour , why a special colour ? project manager : because the buttons will be uh d will be matching colour between the buttons and the rubber surroundings . user interface : but wha what s what special ? project manager : i think that 's the what they mean by a special colour . user interface : okay , yeah . industrial designer : otherwise , it user interface : uh , yeah . industrial designer : otherwise it would be the marketing : i do n't think the special form is really true . project manager : i think all the special colour things have to be marked over here , because that 's what we were planning to do , making it industrial designer : special form also , it says . project manager : yeah , special material r also , marketing : is it ? project manager : because i has rubber . and the buttons have to be rubber . industrial designer : what is the normal material ? user interface : plastic . marketing : yeah , i dunno . industrial designer : sh yeah . user interface : plastic , i think . industrial designer : classic ? user interface : plastic . industrial designer : oh , plastic . marketing : plastic . project manager : 'kay , but the problem now is that the there 's no such thing as a docking station in this list , but we can all imagine that it would be impossible to make a docking station for thirty cents . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but we can uh sell the remote control and uh sell the docking station project manager : separately . user interface : se no no no . industrial designer : yes . and and but we do n't have to tell it , but what we can say of can um almost make it impossible to buy a remote control without the docking station . project manager : yeah , yeah . yeah , but i do like the idea , but we yeah . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : it uh but it then the docking station is n't relevant for this project anymore , but we can industrial designer : no , but you otherwise you ca n't retrieve it . project manager : but then you still have to use we have to find out what chip we u need . marketing : yeah , i really do n't get it . i mean if it 's a simple chip , then we suddenly got two euros and thirty cents . project manager : i think we can agree on this . i i think the special colour thing has to be uh marked . 'cause i think we uh marketing : yeah , yep . project manager : yeah , i think that 's what what what they uh mean industrial designer : but for two euros and thirty cents , we uh we do n't get a docking station . marketing : i think so , too . oh , i do n't know . project manager : but can we find out uh about uh this chips ? because when we do n't need a d a docking station , then probably we also have only we also need a simple chip . user interface : and then we can get a docking station . project manager : and maybe then we can do something extra . oh , n uh oh , still industrial designer : for project manager : oh , it 's gon na get more expensive with . two . user interface : project manager : then we have some money left . we can put then industrial designer : for two euros . project manager : we can put a scroll-wheel on it or something . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : uh why ? project manager : yeah , well who knows . or a little bit of tin titanium . marketing : i mean i i if you if it would cost two euros , that had a total a total thing , it would be nice too , i mean uh we 're not gon na add uh a trip to hawaii to it . user interface : but what what can we do project manager : yeah , or we can ki do the kinetic cells . that 's also maybe an idea . user interface : but uh what can we do with the simple chip and what 's difference with a regular chip and a advanced chip ? project manager : yeah that 's what then what he has to find out . maybe you can uh find it in your email right now , then we know then we exactly know what it will cost us . user interface : if if i project manager : maybe is that that 's nice to know . user interface : regular chip and because we do n't have uh special functions to use uh in advanced chip , for example . project manager : yeah , bu bu but when we yeah , but when we skip when we um when we do n't use the do we 're not gon na make the docking station , then we still yeah , we need something else maybe to make it kind of special , marketing : i like the hand dynamo part . project manager : because that was our our special feature . marketing : we can make a plain docking station for two euros . user interface : yeah . we 'll go back uh tomorrow . marketing : i mean project manager : yeah , okay , you can also do that , but maybe marketing : wi wi without recharge project manager : it still is a special remote control cons uh you know , wi its form is special and material . marketing : yeah , but but we can make a docking station for two euros uh if you do n't put the recharge function in it . i mean , it has a shape . project manager : yeah , but for two euros , then we have still maybe we have to use the advanced chip , marketing : of course it has a shape , but i i project manager : then two euros is n't even possible . marketing : why should that not be possible ? project manager : yeah , then because then we 'd thirty cents left . marketing : no , for for the uh for the docking station if you do if you choose the simple chip . project manager : yeah , but yeah , i do n't know , because maybe d uh yeah , we have to find out with the simple chip . user interface : that 's the question . if we do i do we need an advanced chip , or is it okay f project manager : yeah , and w and and we uh need f industrial designer : it is n't in my information , so i do n't know it uh either . project manager : and what is this ? sample sensor sample speaker . industrial designer : it is n't in my information , i uh i i 've got a schematic view of the remote control , but nothing about uh advanced chips or project manager : you can look at it for s presentation . s technical functions ? industrial designer : uh i 've got here in uh user interface : no no , they were uh mine , yeah . industrial designer : i will put a i will put a page on it . when my mouse works again . project manager : oh , oh oh . hey . oh . industrial designer : my mouse is uh marketing : dead . reanimate it . user interface : died . industrial designer : oh . ah , i 've got it . i will put uh my email on the the network . marketing : what the hell are these ? industrial designer : it 's on it . marketing : oh , whatever . user interface : yeah , it 's open . marketing : project manager : mm . i do n't think here it 's in here already . user interface : it 's circuit board . it 's only just basics for for project manager : it 's nothing about s yeah . user interface : at the end circuit there is an infrared led . marketing : this is n't helpful . project manager : no . but i in the presentation of yours , there was also something about different components . which one was it ? user interface : components design . project manager : functional requirements ? industrial designer : um marketing : no , that was my presentation . user interface : components design maybe . n on top . industrial designer : yes , that was mine . project manager : ah . ah yes , it was the second one . industrial designer : but that was my second project manager : yeah , it was your second marketing : it 's already open . project manager : your first presentation . marketing : it 's at the bottom . project manager : sorry ? user interface : working design . marketing : it 's uh at your task bar . user interface : yeah , but it 's the the other one . industrial designer : mm project manager : uh , this is n this is not this n user interface : was it working design or components design ? marketing : sorry . project manager : that 's not the right one . i do n't oh . marketing : okay , sorry . project manager : no , this is the other one . or maybe something is uh maybe there 's something abo in in these user interface : chip set . industrial designer : but this is the same uh this is o only the possibilities . project manager : here . industrial designer : yeah . we can use a simple , a regular , or advanced chip . marketing : yeah , nice . i it does n't say anything . user interface : the display requires an advanced chip . project manager : you know that a push-button requires a simple chip , but a scroll-wheel , it it me requires industrial designer : ah , okay . project manager : okay , so we only need a simple chip . user interface : requires . industrial designer : with the light . user interface : little lights . yeah , but that that 's just the same as the the led . project manager : no no , that 's just a simple chip . a scroll-wheel marketing : that 's not needed . project manager : it s uh only states that a scroll-wheel requires a regular chip , and that a display requires an advanced chip . so , we do n't need any of them . marketing : a display uh is , of course , uh for showing letters . for showing text . industrial designer : lcd . user interface : yeah . marketing : i do n't think that uh just a l a little light user interface : no . i think uh the uh normal uh simple chip will be okay . marketing : yeah , i agree . project manager : and what 's the sample sensor slash sample speaker ? industrial designer : maybe you can say against the remote uh page uh f uh page up , page down . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , i guess so too . user interface : yeah , true . well , that 's not too what we want . marketing : next channel . no . well , we might want it , but user interface : project manager : okay . industrial designer : all in twelve euros . project manager : back to the costs . industrial designer : twelve euros and fifty cents . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we 're gon na use the simple chip . user interface : so , simple chip is okay . marketing : great . delete . industrial designer : and the lights . where uh are the lights ? marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , lights , yeah , there 's no marketing : well , there 're three , i guess . user interface : category . project manager : nah , there is some money left to be spent . user interface : can we do it wi within two two euro ? marketing : i think we can make a docking station . yeah . project manager : okay , but what we have to think about now is that is is it still a special remote control ? but i mean it is n't it has n't got any innovative technology , we are n't gon na apply any uh innovated innovative te technology anyway , i think . i do n't i do n't see any possibility to do so , because it would would n't fit our defi design philosophy . user interface : mm-hmm . but it 's original . project manager : but what w is there some extra marketing : no , that 's true . project manager : maybe i think maybe the kinetic thing is something . instead of the rechargeable the rechargeable thing was something to um know , so y so people would n't have to worry about their batteries anymore . maybe we if we put the kinetic thing in it industrial designer : but but sometimes you put a project manager : yeah , you leave the p yeah , i know , but still i they will think about that . i mean if you u industrial designer : kinetics are n't uh nowadays only used in watches and that 's because you 're always walking . project manager : the uh it 's made for s people well , the they do n't if it was uh uh r useless technology , they would n't put it uh as a possibility . industrial designer : uh solar cells are useless . project manager : and i it it th th the the target marketing : or the hand dynamo dynamo project manager : the target uh group are people who zap regularly and throw with their remote control as a matter of speaking . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : because i think it when when there w was a remote control where it was useful to have a kinetic uh uh power source , then it would be this one . because it 's one it gets thrown around thrown around a lot and it gets used a lot hey that maybe that 's cool that 's a cool thing about it , you know . you do n't use batteries . marketing : yeah , but but if we ca project manager : i 've never seen it before in a remote control . user interface : but then we could make a docking station . marketing : i do n't know if five minutes . project manager : no , we we we ca n't make a docking station anyway . marketing : that 's not true . project manager : yeah , we can als or uh also m we we can make one user interface : wow , w why no li marketing : we can make a docking station for two thirty . project manager : we can still make user interface : look at now , we got two industrial designer : fo for a docking station . marketing : two thirty . user interface : two thirty left . ca ca n't we make a docking station of that ? marketing : we can make a docking station . sure . industrial designer : with a cable , with uh buttons on it , with retrieval uh device in it . marketing : sure . user interface : i do n't know . marketing : the power device is is i i is very cheap . project manager : marketing : that 's just a regular uh power cable and whatever . project manager : yeah , but be serious , then uh the docking station will be a fifth of the price of the remote control . industrial designer : wi with a button to user interface : well , we we uh industrial designer : wi with a button to retrieve it , so it will beep . uh , so it 's uh wireless technology . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , but we uh we do n't inc we have n't looked at the these costs of the speaker and other stuff . i do n't think it 's realistic for you to do so . marketing : well then it 's a useless project . industrial designer : look at the case , project manager : oh , because we industrial designer : the case the case of of uh of uh user interface : yeah , then we do n't have any innovation things . project manager : we well look at all the special stuff we have . colour a the colours are special , the form is special . it th this is whole concept . uh maybe it with the kinetic thing , i think we could do uh do a compromise uh with the kim kinetic thing . marketing : ca n't we uh ca n't we say fifteen euros ? project manager : uh , no . user interface : marketing : no , sta yeah i mean industrial designer : no , then we have to sell it for thirty euros . user interface : no , we only make less profit of it . industrial designer : it 's the marketing : you can sell for twenty seven and a half . then you make as much profit as you would with twelve and a half production costs . user interface : no . project manager : yeah , i don my suggestion is to just forget about the whole docking station thing and make it uh like a uh uh i i i i still fee i also feel this concept of making it kinetic , because of the you know , it g it gives something dynamic to the remote control . marketing : i do n't think industrial designer : maybe we can uh can do it both . maybe we can do it both uh in the in the in the remote . battery and kinetic . project manager : no , that would n't n no . marketing : thirteen twenty . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : yeah , and it is also not a good it 's not you have to really do it only kinetic , you do n't want it to think about batteries anymore . marketing : and i think only industrial designer : yes , but when it 's then when it marketing : yeah , but only kinetic , then you got ta project manager : no no . industrial designer : then you have to shake it uh and all when it 's when it 's empty . project manager : yeah , it 's great . marketing : you you got ta throw uh throw it through the room like twenty times an hour , really . industrial designer : project manager : no no no . no no , this is very sophisticated technology technology . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : when you use it your remote like once a day , or maybe even less i i it industrial designer : you asked for three d no , that 's n that 's not true . uh , a watch is uh kinetic because you walk all the time . project manager : it we can make it yeah no . becau be but a remote control gets why do they state that this technology can be used if it industrial designer : yes , solar cells are also stated . project manager : yeah , m but a w uh uh n uh a calculator also works on r on solar cells . industrial designer : why do n't we use solar cells then ? project manager : because i think the d whole dynamic part , do you know , appeals to me qui uh thinking of our design philosophy , you know , with the rubber parts and uh sturdiness of the thing , and y when you move it around a lot , then people find the idea funny that when i move my remote control around and industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : yeah , it 's funny for a week . i guess something like that , where you have to move it around very frequently , is demotivating . project manager : yeah , but you do n't have to . trust me . the idea of this technology is that you do n't think about it , it just happens . marketing : no , i i do n't move my uh my remote control very much , seriously . project manager : okay , then we d okay , well y we do n't have to do it , but what that would just have a lack of key features , you know . you m have to put something on your box . you have to make people buy it and uh we can really can do the docking thing , uh it 's not yeah , uh we can do it , but it 's would be a easy way out . industrial designer : you can do it for fifty cents . user interface : marketing : well , we 've got more than fifty cents . project manager : okay , but we have to grou to agree upon something , industrial designer : the c the case the case alone is is is uh project manager : because uh we only have a minute left or so . industrial designer : the case alone for uh remote control is at least one euro . then we have one euro thirty for the whole docking station . project manager : no no , it 's not possible . okay , w b we can s we can leave it on be well then then th it 's this is then then our concept is ready . user interface : cheap remote control . project manager : yeah , we make some extra profit of it . marketing : yeah . no , we wo n't , but that 's um something else . user interface : it w it wo n't tell , but industrial designer : but now marketing : no , this not gon na sell . no . project manager : huh , any ideas ? marketing : of course not . user interface : no , uh , n no industrial designer : great . it 's great . user interface : yeah , we just have to go all what we did today again . you have to do it over . industrial designer : our remote control . marketing : we come back tomorrow , okay ? project manager : no no uh there 's still there 's still someth concept and something special left . user interface : yeah . the industrial designer : seventy euros . project manager : i mean we 're gon na it 's gon na excel in in on in the the range in the field of design and and uh looks and feel . user interface : no , but no . project manager : that 's what it 's makes it special . yeah , and i would li i would have liked a kinetic part as well , to give it some just to give it some extra special feature , and uh i know it will work , but uh it 's it 's an they 're they 're not putting technologies on this , but if it if it was impossible to to make it happen . industrial designer : why not a hand dynamo then ? user interface : project manager : okay , well we leave it like this . then it 's c then we 're yeah . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : we ca n't do anything else . warning , finish meeting now . industrial designer : we 're done . project manager : okay , project e uh industrial designer : is this it ? project manager : well , we were gon na what look take a look at the last sheet . marketing : yeah , sure . industrial designer : okay . marketing : no , we ca n't . project manager : yeah , we have to yeah , it 's user interface : no . marketing : yes , yes . celebration . i do n't see why , but industrial designer : where 's the champagne ? marketing : i think we got ta fill out another questionnaire , to be honest . user interface : yeah ? industrial designer : i do n't uh hear a bell . marketing : no , not yet . industrial designer : user interface : we can do it here then . marketing : alright , i 'll see you guys in a minute . user interface : can we ca n't we do it here ? marketing : i do n't think so . i do n't know . i do n't i do n't think so . user interface : industrial designer : uh-huh . just fill that one in . user interface : yeah , we 're doing now . but it 's . oh , okay . project manager : uh , i do n't know . </s>
<s> how did user interface and industrial designer introduce the prototype of the remote control ? </s> industrial designer : 'kay , we 've made a prototype . um , we 've got uh uh our aspects from the last meeting . uh , especially we looked at the form , material and the colour . um , we 've uh drawn here the p prototype . the logo is uh is uh is pretty uh obvious to see on the on the remote control , user interface : industrial designer : but it is necessary when you want to build your uh company f to a level higher . um , our interface elements , there are shown in the in the drawing . maybe you can uh point them uh the functions . user interface : uh , well the uh all the functions are discussed uh i think the most of the functions are uh uh obvious . uh , it 's a little bit . uh , power button . uh then the the the nine uh channels . project manager : user interface : uh the volume uh uh at the side , and the other side is the programmes . and then we had uh just uh two buttons , we place them in the middle , uh the menu , and for the teletext project manager : oh no , the the the mute button misses now . user interface : i thought that was th marketing : alright , i project manager : do y do you user interface : oh , the mute button . project manager : did we want to have a m mute button ? industrial designer : but uh that marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it 's uh here then , in the middle . user interface : yeah . marketing : alright , and uh you got ta point out which is the volume um uh button and which is the programme button . industrial designer : yes , um user interface : well , yeah mo uh mo industrial designer : we 've disc user interface : yeah , well most of them are right-handed . industrial designer : most of the users marketing : yeah , but you you got ta make it clear on the on user interface : yeah well , i do n't have time in uh anymore on the industrial designer : yes , y there there will be a p a little a little p_ on that and a little uh yeah . marketing : yeah , and a and a triangle on that . user interface : oh yeah , just progr programme above , i think . marketing : yes . next to that i kinda miss a zero actually . user interface : project manager : wait , there 's was one thing i wanted to ask . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : project manager : uh , there are different ways for remote controls to uh do uh like marketing : project manager : uh d i call it teens and twenties . uh , y th th th the two numbers . marketing : all n no , that 's um kinda dependent on the television . user interface : yeah , true , yeah . industrial designer : it 's a television . yes . project manager : yeah , but do we have do we need extra buttons , user interface : uh project manager : for example some uh some have to user interface : uh i think so . marketing : i think industrial designer : yes , yes , you have you have a lot of standard buttons that has to be uh on it , uh th with the one and a double uh uh marketing : yeah , i think you should add user interface : zero ? marketing : a cross , or whatever . yeah , line . project manager : yeah , but you do n't you do n't actually need them , user interface : may maybe here ? project manager : becau b l a lot of remote controls work that y when y that you when you fir you push the one first , then you have a couple of seconds user interface : yeah . and then a second . marketing : no , that 's dependent on the television . project manager : no , i do n't think so . industrial designer : yes , you have televisions , then you have to , you know , you have to uh press marketing : i do know so . user interface : is it depending on television ? project manager : nah , i do n't think so really , marketing : yeah . project manager : because you have a i know some remote controls that do n't have these buttons , but you still can , know , obviously you can still select the twenty uh a number in the twenty or in the ten . industrial designer : yes , but but a lot uh marketing : yes , but uh uh no uh remote control nowadays are um they come with the television . or actually , the other way around . project manager : no , i think uh i really think it 's n marketing : but project manager : because you can when when you put a button on it with like one and uh then a dash , it 's the same thing as when you just push the one , marketing : yeah . project manager : because it i it first gives you the functionality of that that uh separate button you also had to uh apply . industrial designer : yes , but marketing : yeah , well but su if industrial designer : some televisions do n't accept uh that that project manager : yeah , because that 's i it 's for television . it 's exact the same thing . industrial designer : no , no , but s marketing : no no no . so some television respond differently . look , if uh i i project manager : no , listen listen . when you push the button , the remote control gives a signal . i in th in the first place it gives a signal which it would also send when you put a separate button on it . marketing : yes . yes , that 's true . project manager : the one with dash , that signal gi and when y whe when you do n't push another button on the remote control within five seconds , then the remote control gives a signal for channel one . user interface : yeah . true . marketing : no project manager : i think it works that way , really . marketing : no , it it it works uh if you have n't got uh a special button for it , uh if you push a one , then on your television there will appear a one and a a line , which is an empty space . project manager : yeah , but it 's exact the same that w would appear when you put a separate button push a separate button . industrial designer : yes , but some some old televisions uh you have to uh click on uh a special button , uh then you go to a a next level , you can push two buttons . project manager : yeah , but you do n't underst uh you do n't understand my point . marketing : yep . true . project manager : i think it 's exact the same thing when y industrial designer : you want yes , but some television do n't support it . project manager : no , but then they would a would also support that button , because it 's the same thing . user interface : but the ex project manager : listen , with that that 's that special but button you 're talking about , eh ? that 's just a signal to recei ju they send a t signal to the v tv tv that they have to put a one in on your screen and a dash , which you can pu so you can uh still put another number on it . when you do n't have that separate button , and you push y one , it 's exactly the same thing . do y you the remote control gives that same signal as it would give when you only had marketing : no , s some some televisions need the input first uh and and you c industrial designer : a remote can project manager : yeah . but you give the input . industrial designer : so they need no , they need project manager : you push the one . that 's the same thing as the button with the one and it marketing : no , that 's not true . project manager : yes it it is . marketing : it 's simply not true . it 's simply not true . project manager : think about it . user interface : yeah . you uh you can wai when you push the one you can show on the telly a one and just a dash , and then wait uh two uh seconds or something industrial designer : but uh marketing : uh project manager : and it 's the same thing what happens and a g remote control gives another signal after five seconds that is just one . marketing : no , remote control does n't give signal after five seconds . remote control is a stupid thing . if you push a button , it sends it immediately to to the television . project manager : yeah , that 's true . yeah , but i m uh but it 's i i know for sure that some televisions that w th th the remote control supplied , only ha has the c these buttons with a one and a dash and a two and a dash , but when you use a bu a n remote control that does n't sport these buttons , it still works . industrial designer : yeah , it project manager : but okay , we we 'll impl marketing : no , definitely not . definitely not . user interface : we 'll discuss them in the usability lab . project manager : no , we 'll apply them then for now . user interface : uh eva evaluation . marketing : user interface : i do n't know uh i do n't know if if it 's it 's necessary . project manager : yeah , app just apply them next to the zero , the one and the two . user interface : yeah ? project manager : yeah , i think so . yeah , for now , if we do n't know for sure whether user interface : okay . industrial designer : and the button for the scart uh audio video uh external input . project manager : yeah but marketing : uh , you can access that uh via zero , and then minus , i guess . project manager : okay . what i said about uh the remote control sending another signal , that that might not be true , marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : but i still think i it it all tvs in some ways support it , i do n't know . i think it 's more c is m maybe we do n't uh we both do n't really understand how it i how it really works , industrial designer : no , no . project manager : but i think there 's more to in than wha than what you just said . industrial designer : uh , remote control sends one signal at one button uh press . project manager : i do think that uh m tvs support mur multiple kind of remote controls . m industrial designer : uh , some n some televisions when when you want to go further than uh ten project manager : th wo n't work wi with uh industrial designer : no , you have to you have to uh give the television uh two or more signals . project manager : to have that special button . industrial designer : when you uh press one button , you give one signal . and the older televisions need more signals to go a level higher . but project manager : okay , well we 'll see . industrial designer : when you make the technology that that it will uh give more signals , it could work , but just a basic idea of of of the most uh most y most common uh and simple uh operations on the remote . marketing : okay . i kinda miss the docking station . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yes . it 's here on the user interface : marketing : user interface : well it industrial designer : user interface : yeah , uh there 's nothing i think it 's pretty basic , industrial designer : we came uh user interface : the the there 's no fu there 's one there 's one button , marketing : no nothing really trendy about it . user interface : that 's wha there 's there 's there 's one function and that 's n the one button when you want to find it . industrial designer : but maybe we can maybe we can make the docking station uh uh a bit standard for for uh the other products we sell , marketing : the button . industrial designer : because real real reaction sells more products than only remote controls . so maybe we can uh use the docking station , for example , uh m_p_ three players or or uh uh hearing devices . marketing : i think that 's very difficult , because of different shapes of uh uh devices . industrial designer : yes , but when you put that same volt voltages on it , you can put uh when the when the when uh o the the the lowest part of it , when it 's o the same as the other products , you can put it all on the same uh marketing : yeah , of course . mm-hmm . well it it got it it has got to fit into the shape , of course . industrial designer : yes , but we can make marketing : the technology and the voltage can be the same . that 's uh that 's true . but uh i if you all make the m having a bottom like this , then they all fit . industrial designer : no , we can make uh make the most lowest part all the same . marketing : yeah , that 's true , but uh industrial designer : when when the the recharger has a has a bit what points out , we can place all on top of it . just have to be big enough for the biggest marketing : yes , but uh i i g should n't it fall then ? it is n't going to fall down ? that 's a bit uh industrial designer : no , when you make it large enough no it it will not . marketing : yeah , i think industrial designer : but then it 's a little bit marketing : no , but if if like this , i 'll i 'll point it out , if you got uh a a a base a base like this , industrial designer : but it 's just an idea . marketing : i wo n't draw it really . if you got a base which is uh as big as this industrial designer : but it 's flat it 's flat as as this , so we can p make all the products as flat as this . user interface : you can . but i i i it 's backwards . marketing : yeah sure , but if you got if you got a tiny player , it can industrial designer : yes , but when you make uh uh a bit of big user interface : but it 's it 's backwards . it 's leaning . it 's leaning backwards , i think , in the in the docking station . marketing : yeah . uh , wha what you could do if you uh from the bottom user interface : that 's text . marketing : oh , right , help . project manager : but user interface : marketing : uh , you could make like a hole in it , you know , of uh in in the industrial designer : yes , little holer littler uh , little products go deeper in it . marketing : yeah . that i that is possible , yep . project manager : well let 's ha let 's talk about the docking station later , because uh maybe we have we have to uh consider the docking station anyway , because we have some uh cost issues still to come . marketing : yeah , sure , you 're right . industrial designer : yes . and uh uh project manager : but we have to look n i do n't know . industrial designer : the f the look and feel would be great on this uh remote control , because uh you always uh will uh pick up the remote control in the in the smallest uh area . marketing : i do n't like the colours . mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : then your uh left thumb of uh your right thumb is uh near the programme uh button , which is the most common used uh function , and all the other buttons are available for your uh thumb . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so it 's it 's it 's really good design . marketing : yeah . alright . project manager : yes . that 's it ? industrial designer : yes , uh on the side uh there will be a strip of rubber , and in the middle uh there is uh a hard uh a hard material , a bit hard plastic with a light uh behind it . marketing : the light . okay . and other lights ? project manager : i think added lights are gon na be a problem too . industrial designer : yes , we can make also n neon lights on it , or or the buttons that can make uh light on it . marketing : no , o on the on the front . yeah , okay . maybe the uh the logo . user interface : lights ? industrial designer : but , it will also uh uh use batteries , marketing : yeah , why not ? industrial designer : and do we want to marketing : of course . project manager : okay . for now , uh this is uh is good enough . yeah , what was uh on the marketing : okay . industrial designer : the all the aspects of the interface buttons were uh </s>
<s> how did marketing design the product evaluation ? </s> project manager : evaluation criteria . marketing : yep , that 's me . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : alright . i will be needing that image , so leave it please . um go away . right , we 're gon na evaluate that design according to a few points . um , we g the four of us are going to do that um together . project manager : marketing : i wan na have a colour over here , come on . right , the remote is not ugly , a bit weird sentence , but the positive things has to be on the left , so i said not ugly instead of ugly . user interface : </s>
<s> what did the team discuss during the product evaluation ? </s> project manager : yes . that 's it ? industrial designer : yes , uh on the side uh there will be a strip of rubber , and in the middle uh there is uh a hard uh a hard material , a bit hard plastic with a light uh behind it . marketing : the light . okay . and other lights ? project manager : i think added lights are gon na be a problem too . industrial designer : yes , we can make also n neon lights on it , or or the buttons that can make uh light on it . marketing : no , o on the on the front . yeah , okay . maybe the uh the logo . user interface : lights ? industrial designer : but , it will also uh uh use batteries , marketing : yeah , why not ? industrial designer : and do we want to marketing : of course . project manager : okay . for now , uh this is uh is good enough . yeah , what was uh on the marketing : okay . industrial designer : the all the aspects of the interface buttons were uh project manager : okay , but in the oh yeah , the colour , because we 're gon na use uh one colour for the the plastic enclosure and one colour for the rubber , is n't it ? then we 're gon na do the buttons in the i are we 're gon na have rubber buttons . and they 're be a they 'll be in the same colour as the rubber on the side . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh , in the same colour as the side . user interface : yeah . yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah , i think i think that 'll be good . project manager : okay . and i think we should use a a darker colour for the um plastic , and maybe some more m brighter and flashy stuff industrial designer : yes , maybe we can use on the on the lights on the side we can use uh uh multiple uh lights , so it will uh project manager : yeah , we 'll talk about the lights later . 'cause i also don yeah , it 's depends on the costs and such . but uh , and we have to agree uh upon the exact colours , marketing : yeah . project manager : but may i dunno if that 's important , but we 'll talk about that later . okay , for now this is this is okay . marketing : we will . project manager : um , the next p y you gon na give a presentation too ? uh , i have to see the agenda . marketing : well , uh yeah , i i 'm gon na do something right there , yeah . user interface : project manager : detail design . marketing : we got ta do that on the right the most right-most screen , because the leftmost project manager : evaluation criteria . marketing : yep , that 's me . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : alright . i will be needing that image , so leave it please . um go away . right , we 're gon na evaluate that design according to a few points . um , we g the four of us are going to do that um together . project manager : marketing : i wan na have a colour over here , come on . right , the remote is not ugly , a bit weird sentence , but the positive things has to be on the left , so i said not ugly instead of ugly . user interface : marketing : uh , what would you say , we we got ta give points to uh to all of these to evaluate uh that design , and please forget the drawing skills of these guys . user interface : project manager : okay . industrial designer : marketing : the remote control is not ugly . how do you feel ? project manager : yeah , i think four maybe would be appropriate , because it 's yeah , maybe it really depends on taste . uh , i mean it 's kind of , our design . it 's so if maybe a lot of people find it really ugly , you know , o other people find it really cool . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : background colour . project manager : i do n't know or uh i do n't know how you casting . yeah . industrial designer : i think i think the the fronts will give it a more uh uh uh less uglier uh side , because you can uh make it in your own marketing : how do you guys feel ? the different designs . industrial designer : yes , you can make it in your own uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : more to your own personality or or house style . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah , but we d we did n't we 're we 're not planning to use fronts , i believe . marketing : no , not not fronts , but different designs . project manager : with a colour a co a colours . oh , okay . user interface : no , not fronts . different designs . different colours maybe , yeah . marketing : and that 's still uh uh , yeah , is is uh is a little personal touch , i guess . project manager : okay , but oh , maybe we should do three or something that w you know , our marketing : what ? yeah , wha wha what would you uh guys uh think ? personally . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or forty . user interface : we can make it a one . marketing : personally . yes , but what is it ? industrial designer : i think two or three . user interface : mm yeah . marketing : guido ? user interface : i agree . marketing : two or three . user interface : um , i uh i go for the positive . so i go for two . marketing : i was i was thinking about three , so i guess project manager : uh , i was thinking about four , so i think three is uh user interface : okay , three . marketing : three is uh a bit uh oh , what am i doing ? i 'll mark it . the remote control 's uh uh that n makes uh zapping easy . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah well , let that let 's make that a one . user interface : two . one . one . marketing : yeah ? antek , you agree ? user interface : okay yeah , i 'll i 'll agree . project manager : that 's one thing for sure . marketing : yeah . you 're not antek . user interface : i 'm the i 'm the usability , so marketing : i totally agree . the remote control the remote control 's relevant buttons are prominently visible . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , two or a one , i guess . user interface : the project manager : it 's something we really put work into . marketing : yeah , i yeah . industrial designer : it 's all about the buttons . marketing : i would say a one because uh every button is uh uh relevant . and our oh yeah , it 's a b yeah . yeah ? alright . that 's a one ? you agree ? project manager : yeah . marketing : the remote control has n't got too much redundant or unneeded buttons . i think we totally succeeded there . project manager : but user interface : well project manager : well maybe a two , because of the menu button or something . marketing : oh user interface : yeah , well menu yeah , maybe . marketing : yeah , that 's true . that 's true . project manager : and telete industrial designer : also , the the the buttons of the one , the two , the the digits , project manager : yeah , we do n't know if the uh they 're necessary . industrial designer : o they 're used uh uh marketing : the the yeah , m well , you d you 've got a point . project manager : i think a two . user interface : yeah , true . yeah , i agree . industrial designer : can yes , three , two . project manager : came a long way , but not we did n't not uh marketing : two or three ? user interface : mm two . industrial designer : but you ca n't make a remote control without them , marketing : two ? antek . user interface : because we got industrial designer : because marketing : nay that that that 's true , that 's true . they 're definitely needed . project manager : no , w w it can also always be more simplistic , but two is marketing : so we put it on a two ? project manager : yeah . marketing : the remote control has got a really trendy look . user interface : industrial designer : yes . a one . project manager : yeah , uh a t i think a two . marketing : maarten . user interface : well . industrial designer : project manager : yeah yeah , y i it 's hard to say from this picture . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we we 've tried to make it uh the the best trendy look uh ever . user interface : yeah . marketing : ever , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : guido . project manager : but i do think it 's more user interface : uh , i will i will make it a three , because uh yeah . i i th project manager : but i do think that it 's more trendy than beautiful . marketing : yeah , uh i agree . i agree . project manager : so so i think maybe it has to score higher uh on this than on the user interface : yeah . true , yeah . marketing : i was planning to give it a two , uh where i give the not ugly uh project manager : a th a three . marketing : oh , yeah , that 's true . you agree on the two ? user interface : yeah . project manager : i i uh when you compare to the marketing : great . remote control has n't got too much redundant or unneeded buttons . project manager : uh uh what 's the difference with user interface : marketing : uh , i copied that one . well , uh forget that . project manager : okay . marketing : um go away . remote control has got innovative technology implanted . user interface : no . we 're not well , maybe the the the on the side . industrial designer : no , not lcd , so . project manager : yeah , but we uh you mean the rubber stuff ? marketing : yeah , and the light . project manager : yeah , but we have t we have to talk about the lights uh . user interface : and the light maybe . industrial designer : but that that 's not innovative . user interface : but project manager : and i do n't u also it 's also really not innovative , industrial designer : lights lights are marketing : well , i g project manager : it 's more marketing : it 's not seven ? project manager : no , six . or seven maybe , yeah . user interface : well , six . no , six . project manager : or six . marketing : why uh why not a seven ? project manager : yeah , mine is seven . industrial designer : because we 've tried to make it a little bit innovative , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but it but it project manager : uh it 's uh depends on the on the maybe industrial designer : with the lights it it 's it 's kind of future user interface : project manager : no , i think i think actually it 's a seven maybe , but there 's nothing innovative about it . marketing : yeah , you think the lights are innovative ? well , it 's n true . uh , i agree , industrial designer : but still you can retrieve it when it 's when it 's gone , with the with marketing : m but user interface : innovative in generally or just f original for marketing : i 'll yeah , you you did n't draw the docking station . industrial designer : yes . the docking station is a is a little bit innovative . project manager : n no no , marketing : yeah , it it 's i think i think with its project manager : t . user interface : a docking station is innova project manager : yeah , i mean the dock station , but but uh , i think the the docking station , it 's gon na be a kind of a problem . user interface : industrial designer : it 's a part of the remote . marketing : i think more m user interface : okay . industrial designer : and with the speaker on the there 's also a speaker . project manager : but marketing : uh that that 's n project manager : well , let 's leave it open for uh for us later to see what , because we have to reevaluate anyway . well i i yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : no uh , well , the agenda says evaluate now , so i think we project manager : okay , for now it 's a six or a seven uh , sev marketing : it 's it 's a six . project manager : six maybe , because industrial designer : but the retrieval or the marketing : that m f project manager : yeah , but i do n't i do n't know if it 's very inno yeah . marketing : yeah , for the retrieval function . yeah . i think that 's very innovative for a remote control . project manager : yeah , v industrial designer : yes , how would you innovate a remote control more ? project manager : yeah , more through uh like function tv functionalities and industrial designer : to put it on your head . project manager : no no , you know what i mean . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : you have must be innovative technology for remote controls , but more in how you control stuff , not in how you find your marketing : yeah sure , but project manager : yeah . yeah , it 's marketing : but i d i definitely do n't think it 's a five , project manager : that 's that 's think about it la later on marketing : but project manager : and uh </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the product cost ? </s> project manager : okay , finance . because um user interface : shoot . project manager : i received uh a spreadsheet . marketing : a five . a five . project manager : yeah , but i uh actually do n't need this presentation , i guess . oh . marketing : does n't matter . project manager : i 'm gon na open the spreadsheet and we 're gon na work this out together , because i did n't really fin uh i have a . did n't really finish it . well , we uh we 'll see . we 'll stumble upon some problems . marketing : we probably will . project manager : i probably have already opened it here . try it again . first of all , the mm all the docking station and costs and such are not included in this list . but let 's let 's st start with beginning . we include one battery . i i uh i 'll explain its uh , the the components are listed over here . uh , price is given . we um yeah , marketing : the amount , yeah . project manager : we we uh indicate the amount of components of the specif specific component , how much we need of them . and then uh , we 'll uh calcula do n't watch the number yet . i do n't know if it 's filled in properly . okay , we need one battery . one battery . i think one battery is enough . we do n't need kinetic , solar cells , hand dynamo . a s okay , this this is a p first problem . uh , i think we should know how many simple chips , regular chips industrial designer : uh it 's it 's one one chip , but but you have to choose one from it . project manager : okay . but industrial designer : the simple chip is e enough i i think , but with the lights with the lights and the retrieval , it can be uh marketing : i do n't know project manager : where did we find this information ? was it marketing : i have n't got an idea on on which we need to use , really . project manager : i think it was uh your job in the first uh meet uh , f your first presentation to make this clear , but then you had some t time problems . industrial designer : no , uh i yes , my my my uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : the the email i got said uh simple chip , but when we put in the speaker and the retriever uh device , it will uh cost a a bit more , like i think the advanced chip maybe . marketing : yeah . and how do you know ? i mean , you got that email . did it point out what to use them for ? industrial designer : bec no , the they did n't know about a retriever or a speaker uh in it . project manager : maybe you can uh look it up right now . okay , but okay . when we do n't when we leave the uh retriever and such aside , what industrial designer : then it 's a simple chip . project manager : then it would be a simple chip . and with the retriever , it would be an advanced chip . industrial designer : yes , i i i s i marketing : alright , well , point out the advanced chip for now , i guess . project manager : okay . industrial designer : that will be enough for future uh recommendations . project manager : yeah , but it will it will it will be cause a lot of problems . the sample sensor sample speaker . what is it m is that the speaker we were t i do n't know what it is . industrial designer : i do n't know it uh either . marketing : i do n't know . project manager : okay , we went for the double-curved case made out of plastic and rubber . and with a special colour . i guess that 's what we were user interface : well , special colour . . project manager : yeah , i do n't know about the special colour , but i think w uh industrial designer : otherwise , you get uh a standard uh plastic colour . user interface : i do n't marketing : i do n't know if it 's very special . project manager : yeah , i think we uh we have special colours . user interface : mm okay . industrial designer : standard rubber . marketing : alright , that 's okay . project manager : okay , then the push-button , i was just counting them . industrial designer : st project manager : uh , i think you have to indicate the amount of push-buttons we want to use , is n't it ? user interface : whoa , it 's a little project manager : well that 's bit of a problem , because i re but i really do n't understand that , because i can imagine a remote control with far more push-buttons , and it would n't be possible according to this uh sheet . user interface : that 's huge . no . we have the simplest buttons . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : no , it 's only uh when you use push-buttons , it will cost that much . marketing : i do n't think so , because it says amount . industrial designer : if you use a scroll-wheel project manager : ah . yeah , it would n't marketing : the the the yellow row is the amount of project manager : fill in the number of components you plan to use in the and the total cost i do n't know . i industrial designer : maybe it 's the kind of push-buttons . you can have f four kind of push-buttons . user interface : uh , one til nine . industrial designer : rubber . user interface : is that one or is that nine buttons ? industrial designer : you can have uh project manager : and i count them like this . one two three uh four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve and thirteen . user interface : yeah . project manager : because oh , this is oh , this is one , okay . twelve , okay , then it would be eighteen , because uh , i uh rated them as uh um as uh uh uh separate buttons . industrial designer : different , marketing : that 's total of four buttons . project manager : and plus these two , f uh plus the mute button , and it 's will be uh eighteen . marketing : i think that eighteen . one two three four five , si industrial designer : why is that so uh expensive . project manager : yeah , i do n't understand . y i do i do n't get the point , because it 's would be s relatively so expensive , just these m small buttons . user interface : is it cents , the the the fifty cents a button ? marketing : fifty cents for one single stupid button . user interface : no way . industrial designer : so , whe when you so then it project manager : well , okay , well well let 's make it just one . industrial designer : it 's eighty percent of the price of the of the amount of project manager : here , now it 's now it 's already s marketing : yeah , exactly . yeah . project manager : shall we just give our own interpretation to , user interface : project manager : because else we would really have a problem . it would be impossible to make it marketing : i ca n't user interface : it 's way marketing : i i i could n't understand it if it was fifty cents per uh uh per button . really . industrial designer : when you have the same amount of button , you have to put in wi in your carton . board . project manager : and and less buttons than this is n't possible . industrial designer : and then throw it marketing : yeah , yeah , industrial designer : project manager : this is the most simple user interface : no , no no . project manager : yeah , it is possible , but i 've never seen one before . industrial designer : but whe project manager : industrial designer : i 've seen one uh one remote control with only the pu yeah , only with uh page up , page down and volume , project manager : marketing : no , really . project manager : yeah , without the numbers . that 's possible . yeah , we could skip the numbers . user interface : yeah , uh industrial designer : but but marketing : yeah , but i d i would n't want to own that . really . user interface : that 's still four . industrial designer : uh , it 's it 's still for little children . they can handle that remote control , marketing : yeah . project manager : then uh , teletext would also be im impossible . industrial designer : but but it is n't fo yes , it 's for it 's li uh it 's just for a little user interface : yeah , that 's no option , that 's no option . project manager : okay , we 'll we 'll just okay . but then still , when we there 's no room for a docking station or something . tha w le let 's see th we have uh oh yeah , button supplements . we 'll give the buttons special colour . we 'll give them a special form . uh , i think we should mark the special form thing , because it this will be some special forms incorporated in these big buttons , i guess . user interface : a special colour , why a special colour ? project manager : because the buttons will be uh d will be matching colour between the buttons and the rubber surroundings . user interface : but wha what s what special ? project manager : i think that 's the what they mean by a special colour . user interface : okay , yeah . industrial designer : otherwise , it user interface : uh , yeah . industrial designer : otherwise it would be the marketing : i do n't think the special form is really true . project manager : i think all the special colour things have to be marked over here , because that 's what we were planning to do , making it industrial designer : special form also , it says . project manager : yeah , special material r also , marketing : is it ? project manager : because i has rubber . and the buttons have to be rubber . industrial designer : what is the normal material ? user interface : plastic . marketing : yeah , i dunno . industrial designer : sh yeah . user interface : plastic , i think . industrial designer : classic ? user interface : plastic . industrial designer : oh , plastic . marketing : plastic . project manager : 'kay , but the problem now is that the there 's no such thing as a docking station in this list , but we can all imagine that it would be impossible to make a docking station for thirty cents . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but we can uh sell the remote control and uh sell the docking station project manager : separately . user interface : se no no no . industrial designer : yes . and and but we do n't have to tell it , but what we can say of can um almost make it impossible to buy a remote control without the docking station . project manager : yeah , yeah . yeah , but i do like the idea , but we yeah . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : it uh but it then the docking station is n't relevant for this project anymore , but we can industrial designer : no , but you otherwise you ca n't retrieve it . project manager : but then you still have to use we have to find out what chip we u need . marketing : yeah , i really do n't get it . i mean if it 's a simple chip , then we suddenly got two euros and thirty cents . project manager : i think we can agree on this . i i think the special colour thing has to be uh marked . 'cause i think we uh marketing : yeah , yep . project manager : yeah , i think that 's what what what they uh mean industrial designer : but for two euros and thirty cents , we uh we do n't get a docking station . marketing : i think so , too . oh , i do n't know . project manager : but can we find out uh about uh this chips ? because when we do n't need a d a docking station , then probably we also have only we also need a simple chip . user interface : and then we can get a docking station . project manager : and maybe then we can do something extra . oh , n uh oh , still industrial designer : for project manager : oh , it 's gon na get more expensive with . two . user interface : project manager : then we have some money left . we can put then industrial designer : for two euros . project manager : we can put a scroll-wheel on it or something . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : uh why ? project manager : yeah , well who knows . or a little bit of tin titanium . marketing : i mean i i if you if it would cost two euros , that had a total a total thing , it would be nice too , i mean uh we 're not gon na add uh a trip to hawaii to it . user interface : but what what can we do project manager : yeah , or we can ki do the kinetic cells . that 's also maybe an idea . user interface : but uh what can we do with the simple chip and what 's difference with a regular chip and a advanced chip ? project manager : yeah that 's what then what he has to find out . maybe you can uh find it in your email right now , then we know then we exactly know what it will cost us . user interface : if if i project manager : maybe is that that 's nice to know . user interface : regular chip and because we do n't have uh special functions to use uh in advanced chip , for example . project manager : yeah , bu bu but when we yeah , but when we skip when we um when we do n't use the do we 're not gon na make the docking station , then we still yeah , we need something else maybe to make it kind of special , marketing : i like the hand dynamo part . project manager : because that was our our special feature . marketing : we can make a plain docking station for two euros . user interface : yeah . we 'll go back uh tomorrow . marketing : i mean project manager : yeah , okay , you can also do that , but maybe marketing : wi wi without recharge project manager : it still is a special remote control cons uh you know , wi its form is special and material . marketing : yeah , but but we can make a docking station for two euros uh if you do n't put the recharge function in it . i mean , it has a shape . project manager : yeah , but for two euros , then we have still maybe we have to use the advanced chip , marketing : of course it has a shape , but i i project manager : then two euros is n't even possible . marketing : why should that not be possible ? project manager : yeah , then because then we 'd thirty cents left . marketing : no , for for the uh for the docking station if you do if you choose the simple chip . project manager : yeah , but yeah , i do n't know , because maybe d uh yeah , we have to find out with the simple chip . user interface : that 's the question . if we do i do we need an advanced chip , or is it okay f project manager : yeah , and w and and we uh need f industrial designer : it is n't in my information , so i do n't know it uh either . project manager : and what is this ? sample sensor sample speaker . industrial designer : it is n't in my information , i uh i i 've got a schematic view of the remote control , but nothing about uh advanced chips or project manager : you can look at it for s presentation . s technical functions ? industrial designer : uh i 've got here in uh user interface : no no , they were uh mine , yeah . industrial designer : i will put a i will put a page on it . when my mouse works again . project manager : oh , oh oh . hey . oh . industrial designer : my mouse is uh marketing : dead . reanimate it . user interface : died . industrial designer : oh . ah , i 've got it . i will put uh my email on the the network . marketing : what the hell are these ? industrial designer : it 's on it . marketing : oh , whatever . user interface : yeah , it 's open . marketing : project manager : mm . i do n't think here it 's in here already . user interface : it 's circuit board . it 's only just basics for for project manager : it 's nothing about s yeah . user interface : at the end circuit there is an infrared led . marketing : this is n't helpful . project manager : no . but i in the presentation of yours , there was also something about different components . which one was it ? user interface : components design . project manager : functional requirements ? industrial designer : um marketing : no , that was my presentation . user interface : components design maybe . n on top . industrial designer : yes , that was mine . project manager : ah . ah yes , it was the second one . industrial designer : but that was my second project manager : yeah , it was your second marketing : it 's already open . project manager : your first presentation . marketing : it 's at the bottom . project manager : sorry ? user interface : working design . marketing : it 's uh at your task bar . user interface : yeah , but it 's the the other one . industrial designer : mm project manager : uh , this is n this is not this n user interface : was it working design or components design ? marketing : sorry . project manager : that 's not the right one . i do n't oh . marketing : okay , sorry . project manager : no , this is the other one . or maybe something is uh maybe there 's something abo in in these user interface : chip set . industrial designer : but this is the same uh this is o only the possibilities . project manager : here . industrial designer : yeah . we can use a simple , a regular , or advanced chip . marketing : yeah , nice . i it does n't say anything . user interface : the display requires an advanced chip . project manager : you know that a push-button requires a simple chip , but a scroll-wheel , it it me requires industrial designer : ah , okay . project manager : okay , so we only need a simple chip . user interface : requires . industrial designer : with the light . user interface : little lights . yeah , but that that 's just the same as the the led . project manager : no no , that 's just a simple chip . a scroll-wheel marketing : that 's not needed . project manager : it s uh only states that a scroll-wheel requires a regular chip , and that a display requires an advanced chip . so , we do n't need any of them . marketing : a display uh is , of course , uh for showing letters . for showing text . industrial designer : lcd . user interface : yeah . marketing : i do n't think that uh just a l a little light user interface : no . i think uh the uh normal uh simple chip will be okay . marketing : yeah , i agree . project manager : and what 's the sample sensor slash sample speaker ? industrial designer : maybe you can say against the remote uh page uh f uh page up , page down . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , i guess so too . user interface : yeah , true . well , that 's not too what we want . marketing : next channel . no . well , we might want it , but user interface : project manager : okay . industrial designer : all in twelve euros . project manager : back to the costs . industrial designer : twelve euros and fifty cents . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we 're gon na use the simple chip . user interface : so , simple chip is okay . marketing : great . delete . industrial designer : and the lights . where uh are the lights ? marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , lights , yeah , there 's no marketing : well , there 're three , i guess . user interface : category . project manager : nah , there is some money left to be spent . user interface : can we do it wi within two two euro ? marketing : i think we can make a docking station . yeah . project manager : okay , but what we have to think about now is that is is it still a special remote control ? but i mean it is n't it has n't got any innovative technology , we are n't gon na apply any uh innovated innovative te technology anyway , i think . i do n't i do n't see any possibility to do so , because it would would n't fit our defi design philosophy . user interface : mm-hmm . but it 's original . project manager : but what w is there some extra marketing : no , that 's true . project manager : maybe i think maybe the kinetic thing is something . instead of the rechargeable the rechargeable thing was something to um know , so y so people would n't have to worry about their batteries anymore . maybe we if we put the kinetic thing in it industrial designer : but but sometimes you put a project manager : yeah , you leave the p yeah , i know , but still i they will think about that . i mean if you u industrial designer : kinetics are n't uh nowadays only used in watches and that 's because you 're always walking . project manager : the uh it 's made for s people well , the they do n't if it was uh uh r useless technology , they would n't put it uh as a possibility . industrial designer : uh solar cells are useless . project manager : and i it it th th the the target marketing : or the hand dynamo dynamo project manager : the target uh group are people who zap regularly and throw with their remote control as a matter of speaking . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : because i think it when when there w was a remote control where it was useful to have a kinetic uh uh power source , then it would be this one . because it 's one it gets thrown around thrown around a lot and it gets used a lot hey that maybe that 's cool that 's a cool thing about it , you know . you do n't use batteries . marketing : yeah , but but if we ca project manager : i 've never seen it before in a remote control . user interface : but then we could make a docking station . marketing : i do n't know if five minutes . project manager : no , we we we ca n't make a docking station anyway . marketing : that 's not true . project manager : yeah , we can als or uh also m we we can make one user interface : wow , w why no li marketing : we can make a docking station for two thirty . project manager : we can still make user interface : look at now , we got two industrial designer : fo for a docking station . marketing : two thirty . user interface : two thirty left . ca ca n't we make a docking station of that ? marketing : we can make a docking station . sure . industrial designer : with a cable , with uh buttons on it , with retrieval uh device in it . marketing : sure . user interface : i do n't know . marketing : the power device is is i i is very cheap . project manager : marketing : that 's just a regular uh power cable and whatever . project manager : yeah , but be serious , then uh the docking station will be a fifth of the price of the remote control . industrial designer : wi with a button to user interface : well , we we uh industrial designer : wi with a button to retrieve it , so it will beep . uh , so it 's uh wireless technology . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , but we uh we do n't inc we have n't looked at the these costs of the speaker and other stuff . i do n't think it 's realistic for you to do so . marketing : well then it 's a useless project . industrial designer : look at the case , project manager : oh , because we industrial designer : the case the case of of uh of uh user interface : yeah , then we do n't have any innovation things . project manager : we well look at all the special stuff we have . colour a the colours are special , the form is special . it th this is whole concept . uh maybe it with the kinetic thing , i think we could do uh do a compromise uh with the kim kinetic thing . marketing : ca n't we uh ca n't we say fifteen euros ? project manager : uh , no . user interface : marketing : no , sta yeah i mean industrial designer : no , then we have to sell it for thirty euros . user interface : no , we only make less profit of it . industrial designer : it 's the marketing : you can sell for twenty seven and a half . then you make as much profit as you would with twelve and a half production costs . user interface : no . project manager : yeah , i don my suggestion is to just forget about the whole docking station thing and make it uh like a uh uh i i i i still fee i also feel this concept of making it kinetic , because of the you know , it g it gives something dynamic to the remote control . marketing : i do n't think industrial designer : maybe we can uh can do it both . maybe we can do it both uh in the in the in the remote . battery and kinetic . project manager : no , that would n't n no . marketing : thirteen twenty . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : yeah , and it is also not a good it 's not you have to really do it only kinetic , you do n't want it to think about batteries anymore . marketing : and i think only industrial designer : yes , but when it 's then when it marketing : yeah , but only kinetic , then you got ta project manager : no no . industrial designer : then you have to shake it uh and all when it 's when it 's empty . project manager : yeah , it 's great . marketing : you you got ta throw uh throw it through the room like twenty times an hour , really . industrial designer : project manager : no no no . no no , this is very sophisticated technology technology . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : when you use it your remote like once a day , or maybe even less i i it industrial designer : you asked for three d no , that 's n that 's not true . uh , a watch is uh kinetic because you walk all the time . project manager : it we can make it yeah no . becau be but a remote control gets why do they state that this technology can be used if it industrial designer : yes , solar cells are also stated . project manager : yeah , m but a w uh uh n uh a calculator also works on r on solar cells . industrial designer : why do n't we use solar cells then ? project manager : because i think the d whole dynamic part , do you know , appeals to me qui uh thinking of our design philosophy , you know , with the rubber parts and uh sturdiness of the thing , and y when you move it around a lot , then people find the idea funny that when i move my remote control around and industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : yeah , it 's funny for a week . i guess something like that , where you have to move it around very frequently , is demotivating . project manager : yeah , but you do n't have to . trust me . the idea of this technology is that you do n't think about it , it just happens . marketing : no , i i do n't move my uh my remote control very much , seriously . project manager : okay , then we d okay , well y we do n't have to do it , but what that would just have a lack of key features , you know . you m have to put something on your box . you have to make people buy it and uh we can really can do the docking thing , uh it 's not yeah , uh we can do it , but it 's would be a easy way out . industrial designer : you can do it for fifty cents . user interface : marketing : well , we 've got more than fifty cents . project manager : okay , but we have to grou to agree upon something , industrial designer : the c the case the case alone is is is uh project manager : because uh we only have a minute left or so . industrial designer : the case alone for uh remote control is at least one euro . then we have one euro thirty for the whole docking station . project manager : no no , it 's not possible . okay , w b we can s we can leave it on be well then then th it 's this is then then our concept is ready . user interface : cheap remote control . project manager : yeah , we make some extra profit of it . marketing : yeah . no , we wo n't , but that 's um something else . user interface : it w it wo n't tell , but industrial designer : but now marketing : no , this not gon na sell . no . project manager : huh , any ideas ? marketing : of course not . user interface : no , uh , n no industrial designer : great . it 's great . user interface : yeah , we just have to go all what we did today again . you have to do it over . industrial designer : our remote control . marketing : we come back tomorrow , okay ? project manager : no no uh there 's still there 's still someth concept and something special left . user interface : yeah . the industrial designer : seventy euros . project manager : i mean we 're gon na it 's gon na excel in in on in the the range in the field of design and and uh looks and feel . user interface : no , but no . project manager : that 's what it 's makes it special . yeah , and i would li i would have liked a kinetic part as well , to give it some just to give it some extra special feature , and uh i know it will work , but uh it 's it 's an they 're they 're not putting technologies on this , but if it if it was impossible to to make it happen . industrial designer : why not a hand dynamo then ? user interface : project manager : okay , well we leave it like this . then it 's c then we 're yeah . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : we ca n't do anything else . warning , finish meeting now . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> grad e : i 'm known . i grad a : no , cuz she already told me it , before she told you . grad e : no , she told me a long time ago . she told me she told me like two weeks ago . grad a : oh , well , it does n't matter what time . grad b : ok . you know how to toggle the display width function grad a : well maybe she had n't just started transcribing me yet . anyway . grad d : what is it ? grad e : let me explain something to you . my laugh is better than yours . grad d : there . grad a : i beg to differ . grad d : um , ok . grad a : but you have to say something genuinely funny before you 'll get an example . grad e : yeah . grad d : the thing is i do n't know how to get to the next page . here . grad e : no . you should be at least be self - satisfied enough to laugh at your own jokes . grad d : actually i thought grad a : no , it 's a different laugh . grad d : there . grad a : ooh , wow ! grad d : how weird . grad e : oh ! holy mackerel . grad a : wow . whoa ! grad d : what ? ! oh . ok . i was n't even doing anything . ok . grad e : eva 's got a laptop , she 's trying to show it off . grad d : that was r actually robert 's idea . but anyhow . um professor f : o k . so , here we are . grad e : once again . professor f : once again , right , together . um , so we have n't had a meeting for a while , and and probably wo n't have one next week , i think a number of people are gone . um , so robert , why do n't you bring us up to date on where we are with edu ? grad b : um , uh in a in a smaller group we had uh , talked and decided about continuation of the data collection . so fey 's time with us is almost officially over , and she brought us some thirty subjects and , t collected the data , and ten dialogues have been transcribed and can be looked at . if you 're interested in that , talk to me . um , and we found another uh , cogsci student who 's interested in playing wizard for us . here we 're gon na make it a little bit more complicated for the subjects , uh this round . she 's actually suggested to look um , at the psychology department students , because they have to partake in two experiments in order to fulfill some requirements . so they have to be subjected , { comment } before they can actually graduate . and um , we want to design it so that they really have to think about having some time , two days , for example , to plan certain things and figure out which can be done at what time , and , um , sort of package the whole thing in a in a re in a few more complicated um , structure . that 's for the data collection . as for smartkom , i 'm the last smartkom meeting i mentioned that we have some problems with the synthesis , which as of this morning should be resolved . and , so , professor f : good . grad b : `` should be `` means they are n't yet , but but i think i have the info now that i need . plus , johno and i are meeting tomorrow , so maybe uh uh , when tomorrow is over , we 're done . and ha n hav we 'll never have to look at it again maybe it 'll take some more time , to be realistic , but at least we 're we 're seeing the end of the tunnel there . that was that . um , the uh , uh i do n't think we need to discuss the formalism that 'll be done officially s once we 're done . um , something happened , in on eva 's side with the prm that we 're gon na look at today , and um , we have a visitor from bruchsal from the international university . andreas , i think you 've met everyone except nancy . grad a : sorry . hi . hi . grad c : yeah . grad b : hi . hi . grad a : so when you said `` andreas `` i thought you were talking about stolcke . grad b : and , um , grad a : now i know that we are n't , ok . grad b : andy , you actually go by andy , right ? oh , ok . grad c : yeah . grad b : eh grad c : cuz there is another andreas around , so , to avoid some confusion . grad b : that will be reuter ? oh , ok . grad c : yeah . grad b : so my scientific director of the eml is also the dean of the international university , one of his many occupations that just contributes to the fact that he is very occupied . and , um , the um , he @ @ might tell us a little bit about what he 's actually doing , and why it is s somewhat related , and by uh using maybe some of the same technologies that we are using . and um . was that enough of an update ? professor f : i think so . grad b : in what order shall we proceed ? maybe you have your on - line grad d : uh , yeah , sure . um , so , i 've be just been looking at , um , ack ! what are you doing ? yeah . ok . um , i 've been looking at the prm stuff . um , so , this is , sort of like the latest thing i have on it , and i sorta constructed a couple of classes . like , a user class , a site class , and and you know , a time , a route , and then and a query class . and i tried to simplify it down a little bit , so that i can actually um , look at it more . it 's the same paper that i gave to jerry last time . um , so basically i took out a lot of stuff , a lot of the decision nodes , and then tried to the red lines on the , um , graph are the um , relations between the different um , classes . like , a user has like , a query , and then , also has , you know um , reference slots to its preferences , um , the special needs and , you know , money , and the user interest . and so this is more or less similar to the flat bayes - net that i have , you know , with the input nodes and all that . and so i tried to construct the dependency models , and a lot of these stuff i got from the flat bayes - net , and what they depend on , and it turns out , you know , the cpt 's are really big , if i do that , so i tried to see how i can do , um put in the computational nodes in between . and what that would look like in a prm . and so i ended up making several classes actually , you know , a class of with different attributes that are the intermediate nodes , and one of them is like , time affordability money affordability , site availability , and the travel compatibility . and so some of these classes are s some of these attributes only depend on stuff from , say , the user , or s f just from , i do n't know , like the site . s like , um , these here , it 's only like , user , but , if you look at travel compatibility for each of these factors , you need to look at a pair of , you know , what the um , preference of the user is versus , you know , what type of an event it is , or you know , which form of transportation the user has and whether , you know , the onsite parking matters to the user , in that case . and that makes the scenario a little different in a prm , because , um , then you have one - user objects and potentially you can have many different sites in in mind . and so for each of the site you 'll come up with this rating , of travel compatibility . and , they all depend on the same users , but different sites , and that makes a i 'm tr i w i wa have been trying to see whether the prm would make it more efficient if we do inferencing like that . and so , i guess you end up having fewer number of nodes than in a flat bayes - net , cuz otherwise you would c well , it 's probably the same . but um , no , you would definitely have be able to re - use , like , um , all the user stuff , and not not having to recompute a lot of the stuff , because it 's all from the user side . so if you changed sites , you you can , you know , save some work on that . but , you know , in the case where , it depends on both the user and the site , then i 'm still having a hard time trying to see how um , using the prm will help . um , so anyhow , using those intermediate nodes then , this this would be the class that represent the intermediate nodes . and that would basically it 's just another class in the model , with , you know , references to the user and the site and the time . and then , after you group them together this no the dependencies would of the queries would be reduced to this . and so , you know , it 's easier to specify the cpt and all . um , so i think that 's about as far as i 've gone on the prm stuff . right . professor f : no . so y you did n't yet tell us what the output is . grad d : the output . professor f : so what decisions does this make ? grad d : ok . so it only makes two decisions , in this model . and one is basically how desirable a site is meaning , um , how good it matches the needs of a user . and the other is the mode of the visit , whether th it 's the eva decision . um , so , instead of um , doing a lot of , you know , computation about , you know , which one site it wants of the user wants to visit , i 'll come well , try to come up with like , sort of a list of sites . and for each site , you know , where h how how well it fits , and basically a rating of how well it fits and what to do with it . so . anything else i missed ? professor f : so that was pretty quick . she 's ac uh uh eva 's got a little write - up on it that uh , probably gives the the details to anybody who needs them . um , so the you you did n't look at all yet to see if there 's anybody has a implementation . grad d : no , not yet , um professor f : ok . so one so one of the questions , you know , about these p r ms is grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : uh , we are n't gon na build our own interpreter , so if if we ca n't find one , then we uh , go off and do something else and wait until s one appears . uh , so one of the things that eva 's gon na do over the next few weeks is see if we can track that down . uh , the people at stanford write papers as if they had one , but , um , we 'll see . so w anyway . so that 's a a major open issue . if there is an interpreter , it looks like you know , what eva 's got should run and we should be able to actually um , try to solve , you know , the problems , to actually take the data , and do it . uh , and we 'll see . uh , i actually think it is cleaner , and the ability to instantiate , you know , instance of people and sites and stuff , um , will help in the expression . whether the inference gets any faster or not i do n't know . uh , it would n't surprise me if it if it does n't . grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : you know , it 's the same kind of information . i think there are things that you can express this way which you ca n't express in a normal belief - net , uh , without going to some incredible hacking of sort of rebuilding it on the fly . i mean , the notion of instantiating your el elements from the ontology and stuff fits this very nicely and does n't fit very well into the extended belief - net . so that was one of the main reasons for doing it . um . i do n't know . so , uh , people who have thought about the problem , like robert i it looked to me like if { comment } eva were able to come up with a you know , value for each of a number of uh , sites plus its eva thing , that a travel planner should be able to take it from there . and you know , with some other information about how much time the person has and whatever , and then plan a route . grad b : um - hmm , um , well , first of all uh , uh , great looks , mu much cleaner , nnn , nnn , certain certain beauty in it , so , um , if beauty is truth , then , uh we 're in good shape . but , the um , as , uh , mentioned before we probably should look at t the details . so if you have a write - up then uh , i 'd love to read it grad d : mm - hmm . grad b : and uh because , um , i can you go all the way back to the the very top ? grad d : yeah . grad b : um , uh these @ @ { comment } these w w when these are instantiated they take on the same values ? that we had before ? grad d : i ca n't really see the whole thing . grad b : or are they have they changed , in a sense ? grad d : well i think i basically leave them to similar things . grad b : uh - huh . grad d : some of the things might that might be different , maybe like are that the hours for the site . and , eventually i meant that to mean whether they 're open at this hour or not . grad b : uh - huh . grad d : and status would be , you know , more or less like , whether they 're under construction , and and or stuff like that . grad b : and the , uh , other question i would have is that presumably , from the way the stanford people talk about it , you can put the probabilities also on the relations . if grad d : which is the structural uncertainty ? professor f : yeah . yeah , i that 's that i think was actually in the previous the ubenth stuff . i do n't remember whether they carried that over to this or not , uh , structural uncertainty . grad b : it 's sort of in the definition or in the in daphne 's definition of a prm is that classes and relations , and you 're gon na have cpt 's over the classes and their relations . professor f : alright . grad b : more uncertainty , or or i should say . grad d : i remember them learning when , you know , you do n't know the structure for sure , professor f : yeah . grad d : but i do n't remember reading how you specify grad b : yeah , that would be exactly my question . professor f : right . grad d : wh to start with . yeah . grad b : well grad d : yeah . professor f : yeah . so , uh , the the plan is is when daphne gets back , we 'll get in touch and supposedly , um , we 'll actually get s deep seriously connected to to their work and somebody 'll uh , you know if it 's a group meeting once a week probably someone 'll go down and , whatever . so , we 'll actually figure all this out . grad b : ok . ok . then i think the w long term perspective is is pretty clear . we get rocking and rolling on this again , once we get a package , if , when , and how , then this becomes foregrounded grad d : mm - hmm . grad b : profiled , focused , again . grad e : designated ? grad a : of course . grad b : and um , until then we 'll come up with a something that 's @ @ { comment } that 's way more complicated for you . right ? because this was laughingly easy , right ? grad d : actually i had to take out a lot of the complicated stuff , cuz i i made it really complicated in the beginning , and jerry was like , `` this is just too much `` . professor f : yeah . so , um , you could , from this , go on and say suppose there 's a group of people traveling together and you wanted to plan something that somehow , with some pareto optimal uh , uh , thing for grad a : that 's good . that 's definitely a job for artificial intelligence . professor f : uh , or grad a : except for humans ca n't really solve it either , so . grad b : well that 's not not even something humans yeah . professor f : right . right . well that 's the that would that would be a uh , you could sell it , as a grad a : yeah . professor f : ok , eh you do n't have to fight about this , just give your preferences to the grad a : and then you can blame the computer . professor f : w exactly . grad b : hmm . but what does it uh would a pote potential result be to to split up and never talk to each other again ? you know . grad a : that should be one of them . grad b : yeah . professor f : yeah . right . grad e : that 'd be nice . professor f : anyway . so . so there i there are some some u uh , you know , uh , elaborations of this that you could try to put in to this structure , but i do n't think it 's worth it now . because we 're gon na see what what else uh what else we 're gon na do . anyway . but uh , it 's good , yeah and and there were a couple other ideas of of uh , things for eva to look at in in the interim . grad b : good . then , we can move on and see what andreas has got out his sleeve . or andy , for that matter ? grad c : ok . so uh , uh , well , thanks for having me here , first of all . um , so maybe just a a little background on on my visit . so , uh , i 'm not really involved in any project , that 's uh that 's relevant to you uh , a at the moment , uh , the the reason is really for me uh , to have an opportunity to talk to some other researchers in the field . and and so i 'll just n sort of give you a real quick introduction to what i 'm working on , and um , i just hope that you have some comments or , maybe you 're interested in it to find out more , and and so i 'll be uh , happy to talk to you and and uh , i 'd also like to find out some more and and maybe i 'll just walk around the office and and then and ask some some questions , uh , in a couple days . so i 'll be here for uh , tomorrow and then uh , the remainder of uh , next week . ok , so , um , what i started looking at , uh , to begin with is just uh , content management systems uh , i i in general . so um , uh what 's uh sort of the state of the art there is to um uh you have a bunch of of uh documents or learning units or learning objects , um , and you store meta - data uh , associate to them . so there 's some international standards like the i - triple - e , uh there 's an i - triple - e , lon standard , and um , these fields are pretty straightforward , you have uh author information , you have uh , size information , format information and so on . uh , but they 're two uh fields that are um , more interesting . one is uh you store keywords associated with the uh with the document , and one is uh , you have sort of a , um , well , what is the document about ? so it 's some sort of taxonomic uh , ordering of of the of the units . now , if you sort of put on your semantic glasses , uh you say , well that 's not all that easy , because there 's an implicit um , uh , assumption behind that is that uh , all the users of this system share the same interpretation of the keyword and the same interpretation of uh , whichever taxonomy is used , and uh , i think that 's a that 's a very that 's a key point of these systems and they sort of always brush over this real quickly without really elaborating much of that and uh as a matter of fact , the only thing that m apparently really works out so far are library ordering codes , which are very , very coarse grain , so you have some like , science , biology , and then but that 's really all that we have at the moment . so i think there 's a huge , um , uh need for improvement there . now , what this uh a standard like this would give us is we could um , sort of uh with a search engine just query uh , different repositories all over the world . but we ca n't really um , so what i 'm what i try to do is um , to have um , uh so . so the scenario is the following , you you 're working on some sort of project and you encounter a certain problem . now , what what we have at our university quite a bit is that uh , students um , try to u program a certain assignment , for example , they always run into the same problems , uh , and they always come running to us , and they 'll say why 's it not it 's not working , and we always give out the same answer , so we thought , well , it 'd be nice to have a system that could sort of take care of this , and so , what i want to build is basically a a smart f a q system . now , what you uh need to do here is you need to provide some context information which is more elaborate than `` i 'm looking for this and this and this keyword . `` so . and i think that i do n't need to tell you this . i 'm i 'm sure you have the same when when somebody utters a sentence in a certain , uh , context it , and and the same sentence in another context makes a huge difference . so , i want to be able to model information like , um , so in the in the context of in the context of developing distributed systems , of a at a computer science school , um , what kind of software is the person using , which homework assignment is he or she working on at the moment , um , maybe what 's the background of that student 's um , which um , which error message was encountered . so this sort of information i think should be transmitted , uh , when a certain document is retrieved . now , um , basically giving this um uh so we somehow need to have a formalized um , way of writing this down basically , and that 's where the shared interpretation of of certain terms and keywords comes in again . and , using this and some some uh , knowledge about the domain i think you can do some some simple inferences . like you know that when somebody 's working about uh , working on on servlets for example , he 's using java , cuz servlets are used are written in java . so some some inferences like that , now , um , u using this you can infer more information , and you could then match this to the meta - data of um off the documents you 're you 're searching against . so , uh what i wan na do is basically have some sort of um given these inputs , and then i can compute how many documents match , and use this as a metric in the search . now , what i plan to do is i want to uh sort of do a uh uh try to improve the quality of the search results , and i want to do this by having a depth uh , um , um steepest descent approach . so if i knew which operating system the person was working on , would this improve my search result ? and and having uh , uh a symbolic formalized model of this i could simply compute that , and find out which um which questions are worth um , asking . and that 's what i then propagate back to the user , and and sort of try to optimize the search in this way . now , the big problem that i 'm facing right now is um , it 's fairly easy to hack up a system uh quickly , that that works in the small domain , but the problem is obviously the scalability . and uh uh , so robert was mentioning uh , earlier today is that uh , microsoft for example with their printer set up program has a bayesian network , which does exactly this , but there you face a problem that these are very hard to extend . and so , uh what i 'm what i try to do is basically try to model this uh , in a way that you could really combine uh , knowledge from very different sources , and and um , sort of looking into some of the ideas that the semantic web community uh , came up with . trying to to have uh , an approach how to integrate s uh certain uh representation of certain concepts and also some computational rules , um , what you can do with those . um . what i 'm also looking into is a probabilistic approach into this because document retrievals is a very fuzzy procedure , so it 's probably not that easy to simply have a symbolic uh , computational model . that that probably is n't expressive enough . so . so that 's another thing , um , which i think you 're also uh , uh looking into right now . and then um , uh sort of as an add - on to this whole idea , um , uh that would be now , depending on what the search engine or the content repository depending on which um , uh , which uh , rules and which ontologies it it uses , or basically its view of the world , uh you can get very different results . so it might ma make a lot of sense to actually query a lot of different search engines . and there you could have an idea where you actually have sort of a a peer to peer approach , where we 're all sort of carrying around our individual bookshelves , and um , if you have a question about a homework , it 's probably makes sense to ask somebody who 's in your class with you , sort of the guru in the certain area , rather than going to some yahoo - like uh , search engine . so these are some of the just in a nutshell , some of the ideas . and i think a lot of the even though it 's a it 's a very different domain , but i think a lot of the , um , issues are are fairly similar . so . ok . grad a : and so some of the i do n't know how much you know about the larger heidelberg project , i are you grad c : uh i know , yeah i know abou about it . grad a : so it seems like a lot of some of the issues are the same . it 's like , um , you know , the c context - based factors that influence how you interpret , grad c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : um , s how to interpret . in in this case , infer in in knowing wanting to know what kinds of things to ask . we - we 've kind of talked about that , but we have n't worried too much about that end of the discourse . grad b : mm - hmm . grad a : but maybe you guys had that in the previous models . grad b : well , in a in one t one s mmm , small difference in a in a way , is that he does n't have to come up with an answer , but he wants to point to the places w w grad a : documents that have the answers . grad c : yeah , so . so i 'm i 'm not i 'm not building an expert grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : uh , i want to build a smart librarian , basically grad a : right . right . grad c : that can point you to the right reference . i do n't wan na compute the answer , so it 's a little bit easier for me . grad b : well . uh , you have to s still m understand what the content says about itself , and then match it to what you think the informational needs grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : mm - hmm . grad a : so you also do n't have to figure out what the content is . you 're just taking the keywords as a topic text , as grad c : i i assume that that the there will be learning systems that that tag their their content . grad a : ok . right . grad c : and um , um , m @ @ and basically what i what i envision is that you rather than just supplying a bunch of keywords you could basically for for an faq for example you could state sort of like a logic condition , when this document applies . so `` this document explains how to set up your uh , mail account on linux `` or something like this . grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : so . so something something very specific that you can then but the i think that the key point with these uh , learning systems is that uh , a learning system is only as good as uh the amount of content it it carries . grad a : mmm , mm - hmm . grad c : you can have the best learning system with the best search interface , if there 's no content inside of it , it 's not very useful . so i think ultimately because um , uh developing these these rules and these inference uh inferences i think is very costly , so um , uh i think you must be able to reuse some some existing um , domain domain information , or or or ontologies that that uh other people wrote and then try to integrate them , and then also search the entire web basically , rather than just the small uh , content management system . grad a : ok . mm - hmm . grad c : so i think that 's that 's crucial for for the success of or @ @ grad a : so , you 're not i guess i 'm trying to figure out how how it maps to the kinds of things that we 've talked about in this group , and , actually associated groups , grad c : mm - hmm . grad a : cuz some of us do pretty detailed linguistic analyses , and i 'm guessing that you you wo n't be doing that ? ok . just checking . so , ok . so , you take the query , and and professor f : on the other hand , uh , framenet could well be useful . so do you know the framenet story ? grad c : um , yeah . uh , not not too much , but uh , professor f : oh . th - that 's another thing you might wan na look into while you 're here . grad c : i have a rough overview . professor f : because , um , you know , the standard story is that keyworks keywords evoke frames , and the frames may well give you additional keywords or uh , if you know that that that a a bunch of keywords uh , indicate a frame , then you can find documents that actually have the whole frame , rather th than just uh , individual grad c : mmm . mmm . professor f : so there 's a lot of stuff , and people are looking at that . most of the work here is just trying to get the frames right . there 's linguists and stuff and there 's a lot of it and they 're they 're busily working away . but there are some application efforts trying to exploit it . and this looks t it seems to be that this is a place where you might be able to do that . grad c : yeah . yeah . yeah . i 'm sure i could learn a lot about um , yeah , just how to how to come up with these structures , cuz it 's it 's very easy to whip up something quickly , but it maybe then makes sense to to me , but not to anybody else , and and if we want to share and integrate things , they must well , they must be well designed really . grad b : remember the uh , prashant story ? professor f : right . grad b : the absolutely no no linguistic background person that the iu sent over here . professor f : right . grad b : and andreas and i tried to come up wi or we had come up actually with a eh with him working on an interface for framenet , as it was back then , that would p do some of the work for this machine , professor f : right . yeah . grad b : which uh , never got done because prashant found a happy occupation professor f : w yeah , i know , i mean it it he w he did w what what he did was much more s sensible for him . grad b : which in the absolutely . yeah . professor f : i think uh , grad b : but so i 'm just saying , the uh , we had that idea professor f : you know yeah . the idea was there . yeah , ok . grad b : uh to to exploit framenet there as well . professor f : yeah . grad b : and um . professor f : yeah , actually you guys never grad b : and srini 's doing information extraction also , right ? professor f : right . grad b : with that framenet base . professor f : yeah . grad b : mm - hmm . professor f : so you you guys never sent anybody else from i u . grad c : except except prashant ? professor f : you were y no yeah . uh , this was supposedly an exchange program , and i we you know , it 's fine . we do n't care , but it just i 'm a little surprised that uh , andreas did n't come up with anyone else he wanted to send . grad c : uh i do n't know , i mean the uh professor f : alright . i mean i had forgotten a i to be honest with you , i 'd totally forgotten we had a program . grad b : uh it 's in the program ? grad c : uh i i think it 's it 's really the lack of students uh , at iu at the moment . professor f : yeah . yeah . no , no . there was a whole co there was a little contract signed . it was yeah . grad c : yeah , yeah . i think it 's ju it 's more the lack of of students , really , and w we have all these sponsors that are always sort of eager to get some teams . professor f : yeah , i know . right . grad c : but professor f : right . grad c : well i mean if if i were a student , i 'd love to come here , rather than work for some german company , or professor f : yeah . right . grad b : you are being recorded right now , so beware . professor f : oh , right ! grad c : well , i did n't say anybody to anything to offend well , except for the sponsors maybe , but professor f : right . anyway . right . so i thi tha that 's that 's one of the things that might be worth looking into while you 're here . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : uh , unfortunately , srini , who is heavily involved in daml and all this sort of stuff is himself out of town . grad c : mm - hmm . well i 'll go to the uh , semantic web workshop , uh , in two weeks . professor f : right , and yeah , for for some reason he 's not doing that . grad a : yeah . well , he had other things to do . professor f : i do n't know why he @ @ oh , i , who knows ? grad a : the uh professor f : anyway , s yeah , you 'll see you 'll certainly see a lot of the people there . grad a : the other person i thought of is dan gildea ? because he did some work on topic spotting professor f : yeah . st - statistical stuff . that would be a very good idea . grad a : w um , which is , i mean , you i mean . i do n't depending on how well you wan na integrate with that end , grad c : mm - hmm . grad a : you know , like , taking the data and fig you said the learning systems that figure out we there 's someone in icsi who actually has been working on has worked on that kinda stuff , and he 's worked with frame net , so you could talk to him about , you know , both of those things at once . grad c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : so . and he just finished writing a draft of his thesis . so . i u dan gildea , gildea . grad c : so , uh , who is that again ? grad a : and , he 's in one of the rooms on the fifth floor and stuff , grad b : who ? i can take you to his office . grad a : and grad b : it 's just around the corner . grad c : ok , great . grad a : hmm . well , if you fal solve the problem , hope you can do one for us too . professor f : alright , was there anything else for this ? one of these times soon we 're gon na hear about construal . grad b : yeah . i 'm sure . i have um i think it was november two thousand three or some no . wh - i had something in my calendar . professor f : oh , ok . right . grad e : wait a second . that 's a long way away . professor f : good thinking ! grad b : uh well , maybe i can i can bribe my way out of this . so . so i did some double checking and it seems like spring break in two thousand one . grad a : talk about changing the topic . professor f : well , no , but he 's he 's he 's he 's as you said , he 's , like the state legislature , he 's trying to offer us bribes . grad a : at least this is a private meeting . right , exactly , ok , that 's the link . grad b : this uh oh , they refused the budget again ? is it so about citris ? yeah , still nothing . professor f : uh , this this this t the s we 're , uh , involved in a literally three hundred million dollar uh , program . uh , with the state of california . and , the state of california is now a month and a half behind its legis its legally required date to approve a budget . so the budget has not been approved . and two days ago there 's two l you know , so , two branches of legislature . one branch approved it , grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : and , um , yesterdayday { comment } there was this uh uh i thought that the other branch would just approve it , but now there 's actually a little back sliding to people who who approved it got flak from there , eh anyway . so , um oh ! i have to tell you a wonderful story about this , ok ? and then we 'll go . so , i it turns out i wound up having lunch today with a guy named tom kalil . kill kalil . and , uh , he now works at berkeley . in fact he 's hired to run a lot of citris , even though we do n't have the money they so they 've been hiring people right and left , so , uh , they think the money 's coming . so and he was , i think , the chief staffer to clinton on technology matters . he was in the white house , i do n't remember what he was saying . a anyway , like that . and , is now doing all the politics for citris , but also , has a uh , a lot of interest in uh , actually doing things for society , so digital divide and stuff like that . so that 's s interesting to me but maybe not to you . but the really interesting thing was , he st he s he s said something about , you know i 'm interested in things that have high social multiplier , something that is of great social value . he said , `` for example `` , this was his only example , `` if you had a adult literacy program that was as good as an individual tutor , and as compelling as a video game , then that would have a huge social impact `` . i said , `` oh great ! that 's a good problem to work on . `` anyway . so it was nice that uh , he 's got this view , of a , that 's what you should try to do , and b , uh , language would be a good way to do it . grad a : mmm . definitely . professor f : so that 's so anyway , that 's the end of the story . grad a : but for adults and not for the children . professor f : this was yeah . i did n't push him on the ch on the child thing , grad a : uh - huh . professor f : but , uh , you know , a again , if if you if you um , and this was this was literacy , which actually is somewhat different problem . grad a : mm - hmm . professor f : maybe easier . i do n't know . so this is reading , rather than teaching another project we started on , and and did n't get funded for was , uh , to try to build an automatic tutoring program , for kids whose first language was n't english . which is like half the school population in california . something like that , grad a : mm - hmm . professor f : is n't it ? yeah . so , enormous problem in california , and the idea was if we 're so smart about language understanding and speech understanding , could n't we build uh , programs that would be tutors for the kids . we think we could . anyway . so so but this is a slightly different problem , grad a : mm - hmm . professor f : and um , i know none of us have the spare time to look at it right now , but it i it 's it 's interesting and i may um , talk to him some more about is em somebody already doing this , and stuff like that . so anyway , that was that was today 's little story . grad b : ok . so i i did manage to get pull my head out of the sling by sidetracking into citris , professor f : no , no . grad b : but uh or a temporarily putting it out of the sling professor f : right . grad b : but , i i 'll volunteer to put it right back in by stating that i am n uh among some other things in the process of writing up stuff that we have been discussing at our daily meetings , professor f : yeah . grad b : and also revising , thanks for all the comments , the c the original construal proposal . and , if i put one and one together , i may end up with a number that 's greater than one and that i i can potentially present once you get back . grad a : greater than two ? professor f : you 're good . grad b : nnn . { comment } s sometimes , you know the sum is not uh less than the grad a : uh , right , right . professor f : right . right . anyway . yeah , so ok , so that 'd be great , but i 'd i think it 's it 's time again , right ? grad b : absolutely . yeah . professor f : yeah . ok . grad b : but um , and hopefully all sidetracking um , other things will have disappeared , soon . </s>
<s> what are progress updates ? </s> grad e : my laugh is better than yours . grad d : there . grad a : i beg to differ . grad d : um , ok . grad a : but you have to say something genuinely funny before you 'll get an example . grad e : yeah . grad d : the thing is i do n't know how to get to the next page . here . grad e : no . you should be at least be self - satisfied enough to laugh at your own jokes . grad d : actually i thought grad a : no , it 's a different laugh . grad d : there . grad a : ooh , wow ! grad d : how weird . grad e : oh ! holy mackerel . grad a : wow . whoa ! grad d : what ? ! oh . ok . i was n't even doing anything . ok . grad e : eva 's got a laptop , she 's trying to show it off . grad d : that was r actually robert 's idea . but anyhow . um professor f : o k . so , here we are . grad e : once again . professor f : once again , right , together . um , so we have n't had a meeting for a while , and and probably wo n't have one next week , i think a number of people are gone . um , so robert , why do n't you bring us up to date on where we are with edu ? grad b : um , uh in a in a smaller group we had uh , talked and decided about continuation of the data collection . so fey 's time with us is almost officially over , and she brought us some thirty subjects and , t collected the data , and ten dialogues have been transcribed and can be looked at . if you 're interested in that , talk to me . um , and we found another uh , cogsci student who 's interested in playing wizard for us . here we 're gon na make it a little bit more complicated for the subjects , uh this round . she 's actually suggested to look um , at the psychology department students , because they have to partake in two experiments in order to fulfill some requirements . so they have to be subjected , { comment } before they can actually graduate . and um , we want to design it so that they really have to think about having some time , two days , for example , to plan certain things and figure out which can be done at what time , and , um , sort of package the whole thing in a in a re in a few more complicated um , structure . that 's for the data collection . as for smartkom , i 'm the last smartkom meeting i mentioned that we have some problems with the synthesis , which as of this morning should be resolved . and , so , professor f : good . grad b : `` should be `` means they are n't yet , but but i think i have the info now that i need . plus , johno and i are meeting tomorrow , so maybe uh uh , when tomorrow is over , we 're done . and ha n hav we 'll never have to look at it again maybe it 'll take some more time , to be realistic , but at least we 're we 're seeing the end of the tunnel there . that was that . um , the uh , uh i do n't think we need to discuss the formalism that 'll be done officially s once we 're done . um , something happened , in on eva 's side with the prm that we 're gon na look at today , and um , we have a visitor from bruchsal from the international university . andreas , i think you 've met everyone except nancy . grad a : sorry . hi . hi . grad c : yeah . grad b : hi . hi . grad a : so when you said `` andreas `` i thought you were talking about stolcke . grad b : and , um , grad a : now i know that we are n't , ok . grad b : andy , you actually go by andy , right ? oh , ok . grad c : yeah . grad b : eh </s>
<s> what is the future for data collection ? </s> grad a : ooh , wow ! grad d : how weird . grad e : oh ! holy mackerel . grad a : wow . whoa ! grad d : what ? ! oh . ok . i was n't even doing anything . ok . grad e : eva 's got a laptop , she 's trying to show it off . grad d : that was r actually robert 's idea . but anyhow . um professor f : o k . so , here we are . grad e : once again . professor f : once again , right , together . um , so we have n't had a meeting for a while , and and probably wo n't have one next week , i think a number of people are gone . um , so robert , why do n't you bring us up to date on where we are with edu ? grad b : um , uh in a in a smaller group we had uh , talked and decided about continuation of the data collection . so fey 's time with us is almost officially over , and she brought us some thirty subjects and , t collected the data , and ten dialogues have been transcribed and can be looked at . if you 're interested in that , talk to me . um , and we found another uh , cogsci student who 's interested in playing wizard for us . here we 're gon na make it a little bit more complicated for the subjects , uh this round . she 's actually suggested to look um , at the psychology department students , because they have to partake in two experiments in order to fulfill some requirements . so they have to be subjected , { comment } before they can actually graduate . and um , we want to design it so that they really have to think about having some time , two days , for example , to plan certain things and figure out which can be done at what time , and , um , sort of package the whole thing in a in a re in a few more complicated um , structure . that 's for the data collection . as for smartkom , i 'm the last smartkom meeting i mentioned that we have some problems with the synthesis , which as of this morning should be resolved . and , so , professor f : good . grad b : `` should be `` means they are n't yet , but but i think i have the info now that i need . plus , johno and i are meeting tomorrow , so maybe uh uh , when tomorrow is over , we 're done . and ha n hav we 'll never have to look at it again maybe it 'll take some more time , to be realistic , but at least we 're we 're seeing the end of the tunnel there . that was that . um , the uh , uh i do n't think we need to discuss the formalism that 'll be done officially s once we 're done . um , something happened , in on eva 's side with the prm that we 're gon na look at today , and um , we have a visitor from bruchsal from the international university . andreas , i think you 've met everyone except nancy . grad a : sorry . hi . hi . grad c : yeah . grad b : hi . hi . grad a : so when you said `` andreas `` i thought you were talking about stolcke . grad b : and , um , grad a : now i know that we are n't , ok . grad b : andy , you actually go by andy , right ? oh , ok . </s>
<s> summarize this segmen </s> grad d : right . professor f : no . so y you did n't yet tell us what the output is . grad d : the output . professor f : so what decisions does this make ? grad d : ok . so it only makes two decisions , in this model . and one is basically how desirable a site is meaning , um , how good it matches the needs of a user . and the other is the mode of the visit , whether th it 's the eva decision . um , so , instead of um , doing a lot of , you know , computation about , you know , which one site it wants of the user wants to visit , i 'll come well , try to come up with like , sort of a list of sites . and for each site , you know , where h how how well it fits , and basically a rating of how well it fits and what to do with it . so . anything else i missed ? professor f : so that was pretty quick . she 's ac uh uh eva 's got a little write - up on it that uh , probably gives the the details to anybody who needs them . um , so the you you did n't look at all yet to see if there 's anybody has a implementation . grad d : no , not yet , um professor f : ok . so one so one of the questions , you know , about these p r ms is grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : uh , we are n't gon na build our own interpreter , so if if we ca n't find one , then we uh , go off and do something else and wait until s one appears . uh , so one of the things that eva 's gon na do over the next few weeks is see if we can track that down . uh , the people at stanford write papers as if they had one , but , um , we 'll see . so w anyway . so that 's a a major open issue . if there is an interpreter , it looks like you know , what eva 's got should run and we should be able to actually um , try to solve , you know , the problems , to actually take the data , and do it . uh , and we 'll see . uh , i actually think it is cleaner , and the ability to instantiate , you know , instance of people and sites and stuff , um , will help in the expression . whether the inference gets any faster or not i do n't know . uh , it would n't surprise me if it if it does n't . grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : you know , it 's the same kind of information . i think there are things that you can express this way which you ca n't express in a normal belief - net , uh , without going to some incredible hacking of sort of rebuilding it on the fly . i mean , the notion of instantiating your el elements from the ontology and stuff fits this very nicely and does n't fit very well into the extended belief - net . so that was one of the main reasons for doing it . um . i do n't know . so , uh , people who have thought about the problem , like robert i it looked to me like if { comment } eva were able to come up with a you know , value for each of a number of uh , sites plus its eva thing , that a travel planner should be able to take it from there . and you know , with some other information about how much time the person has and whatever , and then plan a route . grad b : um - hmm , um , well , first of all uh , uh , great looks , mu much cleaner , nnn , nnn , certain certain beauty in it , so , um , if beauty is truth , then , uh we 're in good shape . but , the um , as , uh , mentioned before we probably should look at t the details . so if you have a write - up then uh , i 'd love to read it grad d : mm - hmm . grad b : and uh because , um , i can you go all the way back to the the very top ? grad d : yeah . grad b : um , uh these @ @ { comment } these w w when these are instantiated they take on the same values ? that we had before ? grad d : i ca n't really see the whole thing . grad b : or are they have they changed , in a sense ? grad d : well i think i basically leave them to similar things . grad b : uh - huh . grad d : some of the things might that might be different , maybe like are that the hours for the site . and , eventually i meant that to mean whether they 're open at this hour or not . grad b : uh - huh . grad d : and status would be , you know , more or less like , whether they 're under construction , and and or stuff like that . grad b : and the , uh , other question i would have is that presumably , from the way the stanford people talk about it , you can put the probabilities also on the relations . if grad d : which is the structural uncertainty ? professor f : yeah . yeah , i that 's that i think was actually in the previous the ubenth stuff . i do n't remember whether they carried that over to this or not , uh , structural uncertainty . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : is this okay ? project manager : uh yeah . fine now . oh , it 's not liking us , it went that-a-way . computer adjusting . oh . uh . okay . so . right . you ready back there ? uh okay . welcome everyone . um this is the kick-off meeting for the day . um we 're the new group uh to create a new remote control for real reaction . as you can see our agenda is to open up the meeting , um become acquainted with each other , um have a little training on tools , uh create a plan , discuss things and and we only have twenty minut twenty five minutes total . okay . the new remote control is to be original , trendy and user-friendly . that , steph , is your part , is the user-friendliness . the originality um is gon na take all of us . um the trendiness we 'll probably go look at for some marketing research information from you , sarah . um and we 'll get on with it . okay , so we 'll have a functional design individual work um with meeting and then conceptual design t and then detailed design . okay ? right . everybody 's supposed to try out the whiteboard . kate , why do n't you try it first , if you can either bring your things with you , i guess industrial designer : uh yeah , if i can pick up with all these bits and pieces , hang on . project manager : and while you 're doing that we 'll try and figure out how to hook these things on as well , 'cause we 're all gon na have to be able to walk around . industrial designer : uh right , so you want an animal and the characteristics of that animal . project manager : industrial designer : do you have to be able to recognise what animal it is ? um project manager : uh i do not think so , user interface : are we all gon na draw a cat ? project manager : i think it 's just to try out the whiteboard . ah . industrial designer : only animal i could thin i could draw . marketing : i know . industrial designer : its a sort of bunny rabbit cat . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : you can tell it 's not a bunny rabbit by the ears . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : um i suppose it should have a mouth as well , sort of project manager : okay . industrial designer : right , yeah . project manager : great . and the characteristics ? industrial designer : um the favourite characteristics of the cat um the whiskers i think , um because they 're the easiest to draw . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : in fact , i 'll give it some more project manager : okay . industrial designer : oh , and the tail project manager : fantastic . since you 're handy as well , why do n't you do yours next , steph . i think it 's to get us used to using the pen . industrial designer : yes . um sure it 's not to test our artistic project manager : uh no . a mouse-y ? industrial designer : it 's a mouse . user interface : that 's not a mouse-y , no . industrial designer : no it 's not a mouse . it 's a wombat . user interface : it 's a ratty . project manager : argh . industrial designer : a what ? user interface : a ratty . project manager : not a mouse , a rat . industrial designer : a webbed foot . webbed f user interface : it 's clothes . that 's it 's clothes . project manager : industrial designer : oh right . user interface : it 's a ratty with a with a with a very long tail . project manager : and your favourite characteristics of that animal . user interface : i love whiskers . uh they 're intelligent and they 're cheeky and uh fantastic pets and very friendly . project manager : okay . kate ? industrial designer : user interface : and they sit on your shoulder and whisper the answers to your homework in your ear when you 're doing your homework . project manager : marketing : thanks . project manager : oh , a fish . industrial designer : gosh , user interface : a shark ? industrial designer : why did n't i think of fish ? that 's even easier to draw than cat . marketing : mm this is very representational fish . project manager : oh , okay . industrial designer : project manager : fine . marketing : um i like them because they 're sleek project manager : favourite characteristics ? marketing : and they have a lot of freedom but they also do n uh swim in groups , project manager : 'kay . so they have team elements . industrial designer : marketing : do you have a favourite one ? project manager : i 'm afraid i 'm with steph . and i think your pen 's running out of whatever . but i 'm afraid i take the coward 's way out , and the cat 's looking the other way . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : he 's hiding . marketing : project manager : um cats are sometimes very independent . my parents had cats . uh and they can mm decide for themselves what is best . okay . now um we have to get down to the nitty-gritty of how to make this and this remote control has to be sold um we 're to sell it for twenty five euros , with a profit aim ultimately of fifty million euros . that tells you something about how many um we have to sell on an international scale . um would be an awful lot of these , would be like what , a hundred million of them um to make twenty five euros on each one and to make a total profit of fifty million . um the production is to only cost twelve and a half euros per item . now if they cost twelve and a half , you 're selling it for twenty five , you 're making twelve and a half euros each . um and we 're to make a profit of fifty million , that 's t uh can you do the maths and how many are we selling ? marketing : uh yeah . i was just wondering if that 's the um if fifty percent is normal project manager : mark-up ? marketing : b yeah . um i would think would be more like sixty percent . but um let me project manager : okay . marketing : i have two thoughts . one hundred , fifty percent . and and your question is how many do we have to sell ? project manager : yes , 'cause our market um is international and your problem is has to do with marketing of you know , you got ta know how many we 're going to be selling to know how big a market you have to target and who is that . marketing : at twenty five . mm-hmm . yeah , that 's um project manager : to give you a pretty good idea of where you 're looking . marketing : so that 's four million of them ? project manager : something like that ? okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's fifty million euros . in order to make fifty million euros , and you 're only getting twelve and a half each marketing : and if we make mm-hmm . project manager : that 's a lot of selling . two four marketing : yeah . four million . project manager : to be fifty , be four million . you 'd have to sell four million . okay ? right . experience with a remote control . any of you use of remote control for a television or d_v_d_ or something ? you 're both nodding , industrial designer : that that that 's the sorta product we 're talking about , one that will work for a in a home environment , for a tvs and marketing : yeah . project manager : all three . well i 've seen some remote controls that are for more than one device at a time , but i also have heard about them not working well or not well co-ordinated and you wind up working with this one for thi this three and then this one over here for another . user interface : it is true that you always sit around you know , you 're sitting on your sofa and you wan na change something , there 's five different remotes , and one for the d_v_d_ and one for the video and one for cable and one for whatever else . industrial designer : marketing : mm-hmm . y yeah . project manager : and they do n't always talk to each other . user interface : but i presume this is t i presume this is just for television . project manager : do n't know . okay . marketing : project manager : are there any um ideas for the remote ? what would it be for and what group would be be for ? we have to think about that one . marketing : we could make a hello kitty industrial designer : marketing : themed remote . project manager : user interface : i think one in b bright colours would be good . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think one that works would be good . marketing : we could totally go for the japan-a-mation . well i mean there 's also the cachet that um uh the japanese make great products . electrical their industrial design is very good . user interface : i think one that does n't have lots of superfluous functions . like i 've got one at home that has well , apart from the obvious , channels , channel up , channel down , volume , marketing : yeah . user interface : you know , subtitles , mute , there 's a lotta buttons that i 've got no idea what they do , like . project manager : marketing : well , that 's a really good point , project manager : okay . marketing : because i think one of the things that being somewhat computer literate , we tend to um go to menus and then make choices , you know , so if it 's like an uh volume button , you know , you can go in and say mute or or volume . we do n't need to have like the l the numbers if we also have uh uh channel up channel down . project manager : mm . okay . marketing : mm . we can make it smart like an ipod , you know , make everything menus . user interface : ooh , closing the meeting . project manager : yeah . um i know this sounds like it was very quick , user interface : that was quick . project manager : but the i think that 's the industrial design is the first one , that 's kate , for the working design . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and user , that 's you s steph , for the technical functions design , and for marketing the user requirements specification . i think there 's going to be a lot of we have to help each other and work through this as a group , and i think we all , you know , we like our kitty-cat and our rat and our fish , but i think we all have to like each other um to get this done . uh as it says , we 're gon na get individual instructions , but uh i do n't think they allowed a lot of extra time , so i think a little bit of less of this and more at do will set us in good stead . do you all agree ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : alright . um then i do n't see any reason to prolong it and f we should finish this meeting at ni right now and go into other things . alright , so this is the end of the first meeting . marketing : okay . industrial designer : 'kay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the marketing target of the remote control . </s> project manager : um cats are sometimes very independent . my parents had cats . uh and they can mm decide for themselves what is best . okay . now um we have to get down to the nitty-gritty of how to make this and this remote control has to be sold um we 're to sell it for twenty five euros , with a profit aim ultimately of fifty million euros . that tells you something about how many um we have to sell on an international scale . um would be an awful lot of these , would be like what , a hundred million of them um to make twenty five euros on each one and to make a total profit of fifty million . um the production is to only cost twelve and a half euros per item . now if they cost twelve and a half , you 're selling it for twenty five , you 're making twelve and a half euros each . um and we 're to make a profit of fifty million , that 's t uh can you do the maths and how many are we selling ? marketing : uh yeah . i was just wondering if that 's the um if fifty percent is normal project manager : mark-up ? marketing : b yeah . um i would think would be more like sixty percent . but um let me project manager : okay . marketing : i have two thoughts . one hundred , fifty percent . and and your question is how many do we have to sell ? project manager : yes , 'cause our market um is international and your problem is has to do with marketing of you know , you got ta know how many we 're going to be selling to know how big a market you have to target and who is that . marketing : at twenty five . mm-hmm . yeah , that 's um project manager : to give you a pretty good idea of where you 're looking . marketing : so that 's four million of them ? project manager : something like that ? okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's fifty million euros . in order to make fifty million euros , and you 're only getting twelve and a half each marketing : and if we make mm-hmm . project manager : that 's a lot of selling . two four marketing : yeah . four million . </s>
<s> why did marketing disagree with project manager when project manager proposed the setting price ? </s> project manager : um cats are sometimes very independent . my parents had cats . uh and they can mm decide for themselves what is best . okay . now um we have to get down to the nitty-gritty of how to make this and this remote control has to be sold um we 're to sell it for twenty five euros , with a profit aim ultimately of fifty million euros . that tells you something about how many um we have to sell on an international scale . um would be an awful lot of these , would be like what , a hundred million of them um to make twenty five euros on each one and to make a total profit of fifty million . um the production is to only cost twelve and a half euros per item . now if they cost twelve and a half , you 're selling it for twenty five , you 're making twelve and a half euros each . um and we 're to make a profit of fifty million , that 's t uh can you do the maths and how many are we selling ? marketing : uh yeah . i was just wondering if that 's the um if fifty percent is normal project manager : mark-up ? marketing : b yeah . um i would think would be more like sixty percent . but um let me </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the necessity of setting the selling target ? </s> marketing : i have two thoughts . one hundred , fifty percent . and and your question is how many do we have to sell ? project manager : yes , 'cause our market um is international and your problem is has to do with marketing of you know , you got ta know how many we 're going to be selling to know how big a market you have to target and who is that . marketing : at twenty five . mm-hmm . yeah , that 's um project manager : to give you a pretty good idea of where you 're looking . marketing : so that 's four million of them ? project manager : something like that ? okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's fifty million euros . in order to make fifty million euros , and you 're only getting twelve and a half each marketing : and if we make mm-hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the design of the remote control . </s> project manager : okay ? right . experience with a remote control . any of you use of remote control for a television or d_v_d_ or something ? you 're both nodding , industrial designer : that that that 's the sorta product we 're talking about , one that will work for a in a home environment , for a tvs and marketing : yeah . project manager : all three . well i 've seen some remote controls that are for more than one device at a time , but i also have heard about them not working well or not well co-ordinated and you wind up working with this one for thi this three and then this one over here for another . user interface : it is true that you always sit around you know , you 're sitting on your sofa and you wan na change something , there 's five different remotes , and one for the d_v_d_ and one for the video and one for cable and one for whatever else . industrial designer : marketing : mm-hmm . y yeah . project manager : and they do n't always talk to each other . user interface : but i presume this is t i presume this is just for television . project manager : do n't know . okay . marketing : project manager : are there any um ideas for the remote ? what would it be for and what group would be be for ? we have to think about that one . marketing : we could make a hello kitty industrial designer : marketing : themed remote . project manager : user interface : i think one in b bright colours would be good . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think one that works would be good . marketing : we could totally go for the japan-a-mation . well i mean there 's also the cachet that um uh the japanese make great products . electrical their industrial design is very good . user interface : i think one that does n't have lots of superfluous functions . like i 've got one at home that has well , apart from the obvious , channels , channel up , channel down , volume , marketing : yeah . user interface : you know , subtitles , mute , there 's a lotta buttons that i 've got no idea what they do , like . project manager : marketing : well , that 's a really good point , project manager : okay . marketing : because i think one of the things that being somewhat computer literate , we tend to um go to menus and then make choices , you know , so if it 's like an uh volume button , you know , you can go in and say mute or or volume . we do n't need to have like the l the numbers if we also have uh uh channel up channel down . project manager : mm . okay . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about the technical function design of the new remote control ? </s> user interface : i think one that does n't have lots of superfluous functions . like i 've got one at home that has well , apart from the obvious , channels , channel up , channel down , volume , marketing : yeah . user interface : you know , subtitles , mute , there 's a lotta buttons that i 've got no idea what they do , like . project manager : marketing : well , that 's a really good point , project manager : okay . marketing : because i think one of the things that being somewhat computer literate , we tend to um go to menus and then make choices , you know , so if it 's like an uh volume button , you know , you can go in and say mute or or volume . we do n't need to have like the l the numbers if we also have uh uh channel up channel down . project manager : mm . okay . </s>
<s> why did user interface agree with industrial designer 's opinion when discussing the adapted product of the remote control ? </s> project manager : okay ? right . experience with a remote control . any of you use of remote control for a television or d_v_d_ or something ? you 're both nodding , industrial designer : that that that 's the sorta product we 're talking about , one that will work for a in a home environment , for a tvs and marketing : yeah . project manager : all three . well i 've seen some remote controls that are for more than one device at a time , but i also have heard about them not working well or not well co-ordinated and you wind up working with this one for thi this three and then this one over here for another . user interface : it is true that you always sit around you know , you 're sitting on your sofa and you wan na change something , there 's five different remotes , and one for the d_v_d_ and one for the video and one for cable and one for whatever else . industrial designer : marketing : mm-hmm . y yeah . project manager : and they do n't always talk to each other . user interface : but i presume this is t i presume this is just for television . project manager : do n't know . okay . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : . user interface : hello . 'kay . project manager : you all saw the newsflash ? industrial designer : it 's project manager : or you got the same message ? marketing : yeah i i just saw it one minute ago . project manager : yeah sorry . industrial designer : i do n't know . marketing : when i uh industrial designer : i did n't see it yet i think . user interface : newsflash ? d did i miss something ? marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah i received an email so i thought i i ca n't mail you so i thought i 'd just drop it in the folder , but marketing : yeah pretty much . industrial designer : hey what 's wrong with my computer ? user interface : okay . project manager : is it unlocked ? industrial designer : . marketing : mm . yeah that 's my presentation . project manager : woah . i uh kind of opened it . uh industrial designer : what the marketing : oh right . user interface : i think you have to uh change your desktop uh project manager : okay . marketing : user interface : size . marketing : ooh . project manager : 'kay . everybody ready ? industrial designer : not really . marketing : well industrial designer : sorry . project manager : no no no . yes yes yes . user interface : computer is uh not functioning ? marketing : alright . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay . where do i find this ? i 'm not so g display huh ? user interface : uh display . marketing : user interface : and then uh settings ? industrial designer : appearance ? user interface : mm i 'm not sure i . marketing : you read the newsflash ? project manager : 'kay . can we get started industrial designer : no what was it about ? project manager : or is there some pressing issue ? industrial designer : yeah my computer is not functioning properly . project manager : oh no pressing . user interface : marketing : project manager : did you plug in the power cable when you come back ? industrial designer : yeah yeah . no but my screen is reduced in size . project manager : yeah . that 's difficult . yeah . user interface : marketing : what ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : feedback . user interface : okay . project manager : industrial designer : okay . marketing : alt delete . project manager : yeah . user interface : format . project manager : format save . marketing : . so it does n't draw the attention away . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : this is dreadful . user interface : i made uh uh my own map . project manager : oh yeah sure . industrial designer : no not this , but the task . user interface : it 's a project manager : you have playstation also ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . no that 's okay . no i just flapped it , closed it , took it here and then this happened . ah . uh where was it ? in settings ? okay . alright . thank you . do you guys like your tasks ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i spent a lot of time thinking about what i was gon na do and then a couple of minutes before this i get my function you know the information that i need . user interface : yeah wa wa you actually yeah . but it it 's not clear what you have to to to type uh type in your presentation . industrial designer : so frustrating . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so marketing : yeah . i i had a whole idea and then just was typing it and then oh . i have to do that so switch . industrial designer : yeah yeah exactly . this presentation is mainly based on my own ideas 'cause i had n't time to intergrate tha the information yet so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : really annoying . project manager : okay . so there we are again . marketing : by your humble p_m_ . project manager : yeah . marketing : project manager : okay this is the agenda . um we have three presentations , i heard . marketing : user interface : really . project manager : yeah really . so who wants to start ? marketing : yeah that 's fine . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we have to start it right away ? project manager : yeah . uh this is you ? marketing : functional ? yeah functional requirements . project manager : 'kay . marketing : alright . i 'm gon na talk about functional requirements . um well uh some research has be done uh has been done . uh observing of one hundred uh subjects in the usability lab using a remote control . uh and they also filled in a questionnaire . the findings were um , well you can see them for yourself . they disliked the look-and-feel of current remotes controls . users think they 're ugly . um they do not match the the operating behaviour of the users . so they they d they do n't match what they want to have on it . um they are often lost somewhere in the room . um it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote control . and they 're bad for r_s_i_ . i do n't know uh how a user can reach that but okay . um there is also uh was also some research on uh the most relevant and and and irrelevant uh f functions . uh most irrelevant and less used were audio settings , mono , stereo , uh pitch , bass . um screen settings for brightness and colour and stuff like that . um but they are used . i mean the industrial designer : so they do need to be in the project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah they do need to be on the on the remote control . industrial designer : alright . marketing : i mean if you ca n't control the the sound settings i mean if you dislike a very uh loud bass or something , you you need to change that . project manager : often . marketing : so um yeah we have to . industrial designer : by the way my tv does n't have an equ equaliser but marketing : we c we c yeah i mean w we ca n't project manager : next generation does . industrial designer : okay . marketing : my my tv has , industrial designer : no . alright . marketing : but we we can leave them uh away . uh most relevant , uh most used functions , uh they speak for themselves i guess . uh power button , uh channel , volume selection . uh teletext but we can skip that because i saw the newsflash , and teletext is so outdated that it it 's i should not be used uh any more in the future . project manager : n not used anymore . marketing : so forget this one . user interface : okay . marketing : uh channel settings , so for programming uh your channels in in the right order . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : by the way where did you guys get that newsflash from ? user interface : yeah . i was wondering uh industrial designer : i did n't get anything . marketing : yeah , on on the project uh project manager : yeah . not by mail . i receiv the mail but you do n't . so user interface : but you you 've got more information than uh . marketing : no so it 's a text file n in the project folder . so teletext can be skipped . project manager : that 's in the presentation , so industrial designer : alright . marketing : um there was some research on new features in a remote control . uh about an lcd screen uh and speech recognition . well we got an update for the for the audience . or the the the targeted group . so it 's above forty i guess . project manager : uh below i believe . marketing : the new product ? or below project manager : yeah below forty . marketing : because that 's pretty relevant . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i thought i read a project manager : our current customers are in the age group forty plus . marketing : yeah ? project manager : and the new product should reach new markets , which is the customers below forty . marketing : below ? okay well user interface : but where did you get uh that information ? project manager : that 's in a newsflash . marketing : that 's that 's in the newsfla project manager : user interface : okay . marketing : okay that 's a good to know . um because you see see a clear distinction between the age groups , concerning the features . user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean uh above forty people are not so interested uh not so interested in a screen or speech recognition . uh but below that age they uh they pretty much are . so i think we can build that in . um yeah well we can skip this part as well , because i thought i read above forty so we could skip the features , but we just have to build them in because uh they find it very interesting . um well we have to keep all the classic functions but make the buttons as user-friendly as possible . um and and also there 's so not only the design of the bus uh buttons but o how you can push them , and stuff like that . so the physical uh aspect of it . um and i think and certainly for for the for the lower age groups , uh nice design , which uh does not make the remote control in your room . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's it 's actually a part of your interior , of of your design in your room . so it 's the people can say , well what 's that , well that 's my remote control , so it 's d it has to look nice and feel nice , and and have all the functions that uh project manager : yeah . but it also needs to have corporate identity . marketing : yeah so the the logo has to be project manager : present and the colours . marketing : uh present yeah , and the colours as well . project manager : so we ca n't change much of that . industrial designer : do we have uh yeah . marketing : yeah so but i i do n't think that 's that 's a problem because the thing has to have a colour anyway , and most of the times there is a brand present on it . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yeah . yeah . marketing : so i think that 's not gon na gon na affect it very uh very much . project manager : okay . marketing : well that are the the consequences uh on a marketing uh part . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : alright . user interface : okay . project manager : it 's open already so you can use to marketing : . project manager : find yours . user interface : mm . it 's project manager : f_ five . user interface : f_ five . okay . project manager : go jurgen . user interface : oh . what is this ? marketing : user interface : oh no . industrial designer : user interface : how do i uh project manager : you pressed alt f_ four ? user interface : no no no . i pressed the mouse button . project manager : oh great . user interface : industrial designer : it 's th that 's the self-destruct button . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . okay . project manager : uh maybe you can do it from your computer so talk us through it . user interface : okay . um if you all go stand around uh marketing : yeah . just yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : computer industrial designer : alright . marketing : sure . user interface : um project manager : that 's nice . f_ five . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : alright . user interface : i uh had uh two examples . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um this one is the the yeah the advanced one with a lot of options and functions and buttons . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : this the easy one marketing : yeah . user interface : i think we have to to combine them . and uh yeah merge the best functions of all examples . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . user interface : um but yeah the the age is uh under forty ? project manager : the mm yeah . marketing : yeah and and and marketing research stated that that that kind of users are not afraid of of a lot of functions . user interface : so we okay so so we have the option for more functions . marketing : so not not too much but yeah . user interface : um yeah . industrial designer : and we do have to integrate the screen and the the speech marketing : and the speech recognition yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : alright . user interface : uh yeah this this one we can remove for kids . it 's just only for adults so uh we can uh use some advanced options . but marketing : yeah from age of sixteen so yeah . user interface : yeah but i prefer we we uh use the the basic options uh yeah . we have to to make them very easy so for just uh zapping around the channels you can just push one button . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but if you want to to use your your video recorder or something else , you should use use an uh an advanced option . marketing : yeah but uh the the newsflash also stated that it should control only one device , only your television . user interface : okay one device . project manager : yeah . so n it 's very easy . user interface : okay . i did n't see . project manager : now yeah it 's okay . user interface : okay and i also uh yeah . w yeah . marketing : so there are not extra options in this case , but uh project manager : okay . user interface : we have to make it fashionable . like you uh said uh before . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh yeah the basic functions . um yeah only use a extra function if they are really needed . project manager : yeah so maybe you can hide them or something . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah well what what we can do with the screen is is all the the configuration options , you can put that in the screen . project manager : yeah you make a screen menu or something . marketing : and the and the yeah screen menu to to to uh to do that , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and then the basic function just on the device itself . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it looks very simple and all the advanced features are hidden in the screen , uh with a clear menu . project manager : yeah and the other oth other uh functionality is the screen . user interface : yeah . project manager : what does the screen do ? user interface : did i uh industrial designer : alright . marketing : uh . what are wh project manager : yeah . it 's low power . user interface : did i break it ? marketing : what . project manager : so what does the screen do ? they said they needed it but what does it do ? what do they want with the screen ? user interface : for for the advanced functions i think . project manager : yeah that 's what we make it up . marketing : yeah well it yeah it did n't project manager : so but what did the marketing marketing : it did n't say what they want to do with the screen . well i , my guess is it 's it 's pretty handy for advanced uh advanced functions . project manager : yeah okay it 's handy . with no predefined uh user interface : like searching for channels and industrial designer : ah look . marketing : yeah searching for channels , programming them . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we have your uh oh never mind . project manager : we 're back online . user interface : okay . that 's uh i 'm al i 'm almost finished so project manager : okay . user interface : um the we have to to to watch out for the i if we make it f very fashionable , it it the functional functionality will go down . so we have to make uh a compromise between functionality and fashional fashionable project manager : mm-hmm . content and form . user interface : yeah content and form . industrial designer : . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : now that that was uh was the end . project manager : that was the end . okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well my presentation is a bit uh sucky . marketing : well you can improvise right ? project manager : uh which one is it ? technical functions ? industrial designer : yeah a little bit . project manager : this one ? industrial designer : uh no . no no . project manager : functional requirements ? industrial designer : yeah i think that would be it then . user interface : project manager : you did n't put it in ? or industrial designer : i have no idea . marketing : so we we can go for industrial designer : that w . project manager : it 's not really english . industrial designer : let me check . i know . project manager : uh kick off . oh working design i got it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we can go for the look-and-feel of the the left example , and then a screen on top of it . project manager : here you go . industrial designer : alright how do i uh skip pages ? project manager : just uh press uh yeah . yeah . industrial designer : the keys yeah ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : alright . um yeah well i was working on this before i got my information . so i was just working off the top of my head and using my colin common knowledge about uh remote controls . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : industrial designer : and well the info on the website which came too late . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um so i did n't really know what kind of functions we had to put into it yet . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so uh uh this is basically an overview of what we discussed in our last uh meeting . those were my uh starting points . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh i was working on a s yeah on a schedule , and i was supposed to do it like this . but um yeah then uh the information came and it was kind of exact with all the steps in the remote control that i had to follow , so i was trying to organise them for myself . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : and then make the project manager : design yeah . industrial designer : the design , a the actual design , marketing : design ? yeah . industrial designer : but i never came around to do that . so i 'm not really sure what i 'm supposed to say about it . marketing : okay . industrial designer : i mean everything speaks for itself i guess . mean you press a button um the it tru goes , it sends a signal to a chip , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : which uh translates it into infrared signal of certin spatial frequencies . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah frequency . yeah . industrial designer : and uh or temporal fr frequencies actually . and then uh through a uh transformer , it the signal gets boosted and then sent to the to the receiver on the tv project manager : yeah decoder . industrial designer : and the tv will translate it into a function . um yeah well this was actually all i got around to do . project manager : blank . yeah okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i mean i dunno if i 'm too slow for this stuff , but uh project manager : work harder . marketing : user interface : okay shou should we make a list of the of all the functions we want uh marketing : industrial designer : yeah . whatever . project manager : yeah . uh marketing : yeah we want to incorporate in uh into it . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'kay . um for those that did n't see yet um the basic new requirements of the management were no teletext , only for tv . uh it should be designed for a use g uh group below forty , but i do n't think it 's w wrong if we can uh target the current customer group as well . and uh the corporate identity should be clear in the design of the remote control . and we have to decide on the functions , and on the , let 's see what was it , uh the target group . we have to make be clear what that is . marketing : group of users , or project manager : yeah users . marketing : because it says below forty i mean . project manager : yeah so i think it 's easy but marketing : i guess that 's that 's the tar yeah uh or male and female user interface : but uh it 's it 's also for children or just uh project manager : yeah it 's below forty so we can decide where to marketing : uh six the marketing research started on s on the age of sixteen . user interface : okay . okay . marketing : sixteen to twenty five , twenty five to thirty five , thirty five to forty five , something like that . project manager : okay . so below forty is okay . marketing : so um project manager : but we need an lower level which to s uh focus . marketing : how do you mean ? project manager : so is it from sixteen to forty ? is it from twenty to forty ? is it from thirty ? marketing : uh sixteen to forty . project manager : yeah ? 'kay . user interface : yeah . we we have to marketing : well i i guess people of sixteen are are quite used to technology . project manager : yeah . marketing : so they they adapt to it pretty soon i guess . user interface : and if we have a larger public we have uh yeah more options to to uh sell our product . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah so what we might wan na do is uh yeah cust i have customised the screen functions , if you know what i mean . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : the uh younger users are more acquainted with these kind of machines so they can use more advanced functions . but maybe elderly people do n't understand it so well , so they need a simpler remote . project manager : design . mm . industrial designer : and yeah that you can choose what the design displays , or wha whatever . user interface : yeah that 's that 's why uh i wanted to to make yeah two uh different uh yeah groups of functions . the the simple functions for for the the whole public , and the the advanced options for the younger people yeah who are more yeah experienced with uh industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . and maybe y industrial designer : experienced yeah . marketing : but uh all incorporated in the screen or or just on the remote itself ? user interface : na i w i should uh put uh the the yeah the extra advanced options on the onto the onscreen display . project manager : yeah . marketing : like like you have a visual of the of the brightness with with a kind of sliding bar and a bus and and stuff like that for sound and and vis and and visuals ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . so is you should have a menu for all the the functions you do n't use regular and which are marketing : uh you can make a if you make a drawing . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . aye yeah . marketing : uh uh . project manager : shall i uh marketing : uh black 's okay . and draw it very big . project manager : yeah . it 's okay . marketing : oh . yeah . project manager : no , it does n't have line control , so marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah we get the marketing : yeah well , this is basically uh it 's industrial designer : the remote ? project manager : the remote , yeah ? marketing : alright the remote ? um well usually the power button is on top i guess . project manager : basic . is on top . which should be easy , easily reached with the thumb . marketing : yeah so it should fit right in into your hand . user interface : yeah . l left top or right uh top ? project manager : t i s should said right . marketing : right . right . user interface : yeah , right . industrial designer : right top . marketing : i most people are right-handed so user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah definitely . marketing : maybe left-handed special addition , but okay . user interface : marketing : if you put it like like here . or something . i dunno . um then you could put a screen , like on a mobile phone , also on top i guess . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah but if you are using the the normal functions , the the basic functions , you normally press them on the u yeah . project manager : do the also with the thumb . so it should be a little bit longer so that you can put your uh thumb , also reach the middle . or you should screen at the bottom and then you can see it very clearly . marketing : okay so y yeah you have you have it in your hand , and the screen is below , and the buttons are in the middle . project manager : you you need to be able to hold it so user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay for example if you put the screen here , it 's more about the functions now than the than the layout . project manager : yeah okay that 's true . layout . that 's for the marketing : does n't work too well . it 's uh it 's bent . project manager : user interface : project manager : i ca n't help it . marketing : . user interface : you broke it . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : . project manager : man . marketing : right . project manager : yeah okay . marketing : okay you get it . uh for example if y if you put all the project manager : marketing : right . project manager : you want the normal piece of paper ? and you have a pen ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and might be easier huh ? marketing : maybe this . kind of works . project manager : yeah ? marketing : like if you have like uh ten buttons for for all the for all the channels , project manager : mm-hmm . uh . marketing : um and here one for for project manager : and the for flipping up and down . user interface : yeah yeah . and volume control . marketing : yeah that that usually uh like here , here , here , here . industrial designer : yeah i project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so you have up and down for the for the channels , and left and right for the volume uh project manager : and left to right . and those can also be used for the menu . industrial designer : yeah exactly . i thought but this is really your department , that we need just the functional display and four cursors . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah okay but this is function so if you can use them for multiple things marketing : and you you have industrial designer : and marketing : most of the time you have one button in the middle . it says menu , industrial designer : yeah okay . project manager : for the menu . yeah . marketing : and then if you press it you the screen gets activated and then you can use these buttons to scroll up and down and left and right to go into functon project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then just project manager : yeah . marketing : mo most of the time this menu button is also like okay , to to confirm a a kind of action . project manager : yeah . marketing : so you scroll into it , okay . you select a function like v like uh bass . you just adjust it with these two buttons . project manager : yeah . marketing : then okay to confirm , and then uh on on each on each screen there 's there should be an option to go back to a to a upper level . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and then finally say okay , exit . or or one button to exit it . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh in one time i dunno , that 's not really my department . user interface : and do we need a a logo on our uh remote control , or marketing : that 's more your uh your department to to uh to project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . but it should be if the screen is here then the logo should be like on on top , user interface : on the left uh top yeah . marketing : yeah . i mean it 's uh project manager : yeah but that depends on where you put the screen . user interface : okay . project manager : but it 's essential that there is a screen . marketing : yeah . yeah i mean the position of the screen is also more essential than i mean we we look where we have space left and then put the logo over there . project manager : yeah . and for the speech uh recognition part , if we want to incorporate that , we need a microphone . marketing : but um yeah so it should be i mean if you have it in your hand here , should be on top somewhere , maybe . project manager : yeah . this would be uh industrial designer : why did we wan na put the display in the bottom ? marketing : i mean i project manager : no that 's not s sure so industrial designer : okay . marketing : that 's not sure project manager : uh we need a display . marketing : but it 's user interface : yeah may maybe because you 're industrial designer : because yeah if you use the functions your hand will block the display . user interface : yeah okay but only for the basic functi if you 're going to use the advanced option , you 're going to press the the menu button and then yeah . marketing : yeah i mean a screen on top looks more lo logical to me . industrial designer : normal for logical t project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : also because people use m mobile phones and they also have the screen on top . project manager : yeah they 're used to it . user interface : okay the yeah . that 's possible . marketing : so you you just have to reach a little bit for the power button . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i mean if you grab it . industrial designer : on once it 's on it 's on . you do n't need the power button . marketing : but most most of the times if a if if a tv 's on standby people just press a channel to put it on . user interface : yeah , okay . okay we put it on top . marketing : so we put this on top , and then make the corporate logo user interface : yeah . marketing : like over here . r_r_ . and j and the microphone , i mean it can be very small . if you look at your mobile phones are some stripes , little little holes . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : maybe on the top or even on the side . project manager : marketing : yeah maybe on the side . i mean if the if the microphone is good . project manager : yeah but then it 's possible that you cover it with your hand so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : true . marketing : yeah okay . so on the on the top is better . project manager : i think that top is the best option . industrial designer : but if you uh if you hold the ma the remote like this , if you put it on the top on the side project manager : yeah okay . industrial designer : i dunno . should be able to work . marketing : yeah . . project manager : depends on the sensitivity of the microphone , but i think that 's okay . industrial designer : never mind . can we leave this up to you ? user interface : marketing : yeah it does n't matter that much . so but um the screen is on top ? which functions did we have left ? i mean this is basically numbers , volume , uh channel up and down . project manager : volume . up . channel up and down , and the control of the advanced options . marketing : screen is over there . project manager : so maybe it , we should decide what advanced options we want to put in the lcd screen . user interface : yeah . if we marketing : yeah . yeah . that 's uh that 's a good one . industrial designer : yeah so we we needed to integrate the sound and uh and image options right ? project manager : yeah so sounds ? industrial designer : like uh bass uh marketing : yeah . sound ? industrial designer : so we need kind of an equaliser . if you marketing : yeah . equaliser . so if you have sound but not too advanced . i mean most tvs use only treble and bass . user interface : yeah it it 's just a remote control so project manager : and they 're industrial designer : yeah treble , middl middle , bass or something . project manager : they 're not used often so user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . it 's uh pretty hard to write . project manager : industrial designer : ah as project manager : yeah just industrial designer : . marketing : mm . okay but you have sound ? project manager : yeah sounds . marketing : yeah just project manager : yeah . marketing : oh y you have digital uh industrial designer : . marketing : better write it down over there yeah . project manager : of course . i 'm just a secretary . marketing : so you have sound . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : coffee ? marketing : uh yeah sound and then within sound i guess treble and bass ? industrial designer : yes please . project manager : treble bass . industrial designer : the mono stereo option ? marketing : yeah . also . project manager : uh industrial designer : and there there was something else also . project manager : pitch i believe , yeah . industrial designer : and then pitch . marketing : pitch . yeah . but pitch , is n't that yeah that 's the the height of the tone . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the fr yeah the frequency of the tones , yeah . marketing : yeah okay , project manager : yeah and mono stereo . marketing : wh why would you use that ? industrial designer : yeah is n't that that depends on the on the signal of the of what program you 're watching . marketing : if people like talk like uh yeah . project manager : and also the tuning part ? marketing : programming part . project manager : yeah programming . so channel programming ? marketing : uh so we have sound , yeah ? channel programming . industrial designer : and yeah in the functionality of the user interface : television uh itself uh industrial designer : no no of the remote uh do do we want uh the buttons to make sound when you press them ? as a confirmation or whatever you know ? i dunno . marketing : i think it g it gets annoying . project manager : yeah . marketing : i mean most mobile phones used that in the beginning but user interface : we we could make an option for it , but uh you can disable s industrial designer : under the a yeah advanced option menu you can put those things . user interface : yeah . but uh the the television itself has also the the options brightness and uh screen colour etcetera . so marketing : yeah . project manager : contrast yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah but people do n't want to sit on their knees on their knees in front of their television with only three buttons then it 's very hard to project manager : mm . no . uh , so contrast , marketing : y yeah contrast and brightness ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : bright , marketing : yeah those are the most used i guess . if you look at your monitor . project manager : uh and the others were in your presentation right ? so i can just copy those ? marketing : well yeah well i guess that these were the only ones , i guess . project manager : okay . it 's easy . industrial designer : but so we have we have tv options , which is all this . marketing : yeah . i will look it up . project manager : yeah the button options and the lcd options . industrial designer : the sound , sound and image . and you have in that uh the indeed the remote control options . project manager : indeed . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so we need two menus kind of thing . project manager : yeah you have basically a button menu , which you can use directly , uh according to the old principle . industrial designer : uh-huh . project manager : and the lcd options are activated by some some software options , thats communicates with the infrared uh decoder yeah . marketing : yeah with the chip and then i mean project manager : so you you have an additional processor and and software part . marketing : uh yeah . well yeah we have power button , whether that 's present . project manager : compared to o industrial designer : alright . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : channel volume selection present . uh numbers present . yeah a audio settings , mono , stereo , pitch , bass , treble . screen settings , brightness and colour . project manager : l_ s yeah . colour . yeah i i call it contrast . marketing : yeah con contrast is project manager : yeah i make it c colour . marketing : yeah okay , colour and brightness . project manager : yeah . marketing : um and what you say , channel settings or channel programming ? so you you have an option to to start scanning all the frequencies , and when it encounters one , well it shows on your tv . and then you can um project manager : yeah and automatically um mm-hmm . marketing : uh and then you can select uh a number in your remote on which you want to save it . project manager : yeah so i 've g channel program is autoseek ? marketing : yeah , autoseek . project manager : uh name a channel , or marketing : well most tvs automatically display the name , which they get through the cable . project manager : oh they get automatic names , okay . marketing : yeah . so you only have to choose the position on your project manager : . marketing : it only has to match the the channel frequency on your tv , with with the with the position on your tv and and so your remote . project manager : yeah . yeah but can you also say i want f uh veronica on the channel number uh five or industrial designer : help . marketing : if you already programmed it . project manager : yeah . marketing : if you want to move it . yeah that should be possible too . project manager : yeah . how do you call that ? marketing : yeah how do you call that ? mm ? wait you you should be able to to browse through a list or something , which w displays all the all the values , all the channels which are possible . project manager : channels ? yeah . marketing : i mean like one to f thirty of or ninety or whatever . project manager : ninety nine or something . yeah . marketing : just browse through it and then um in some kind of way see if it if it if it is programmed . project manager : s swap channels ? can i call it that ? marketing : yeah . swap channels . project manager : swap 's good option . okay . uh other functions ? marketing : so you most of the time if you if you swap it s uh let 's say for example you have uh r_t_l_ five on on channel five . and veronica on channel eight and you want to move veronica to channel five , most of the times you override the previous uh the previous one . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . well that 's 's up to uh mister user interface designer . user interface : marketing : yeah . it 's it 's pretty uh user interface : okay . marketing : yeah i mean you have to look on on the menu industrial designer : working design . doch . project manager : also . marketing : on the tv . project manager : that 's you 're industrial designer : he only has to figure out how it has to look . project manager : yeah but also , which buttons you have to press to get a certain result ? industrial designer : and how user interface : yeah . industrial designer : to use project manager : and the working design was to specify how ph the physical interation between the components was , as i believe . industrial designer : yeah okay . but you did your homework . but um yeah . okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : marketing : or or is it too hard to to ju to just do it all on your remote ? to programme the channels ? project manager : no i do n't think so . industrial designer : no no . it should be able to do any remote . user interface : no that 's project manager : but i think the communication with the television is difficult . but that 's not our part . marketing : yeah . project manager : we do n't have to design a protocol so marketing : that 's true . that 's true . industrial designer : thank god . user interface : okay marketing : yeah . so we have a figure a figure out a way to to do that easily . i mean th the autoseek is is not a problem . project manager : no that 's the marketing : i mean you uh you uh current channel and then then it just says , uh on which number do you want to save this , and you just press a number on your remote , and then say confirm , okay , and then it 's it 's saved . it 's easier , it 's it 's it 's harder to , if you have already programmed it , to to swap . project manager : yeah . so but marketing : so we have to think of something for that . project manager : um the user interface designer can design a menu for all these function i put them on the marketing : yeah k kind of structure into layers . user interface : on the uh yeah can you i make a a map with with all the yeah 'cause it 's now there are lots and lots of documents project manager : . yeah . yeah i can . user interface : and project manager : i 'll just try to reorganise uh things . um marketing : so project manager : so you design the basic function menu for the lcd screen ? uh um i think marketing : and and the layout of of the thing itself . project manager : th i think the yeah the layout of the screen user interface : the the layout of the remote control ? project manager : and i think you can concentrate more on the button placement and the placement of the uh screen itself on the marketing : . user interface : is n't that more the the u uh the user interface part ? project manager : . no i d i think that 's more in . industrial designer : uh all the functional uh aspects of the remote i think are in my department . marketing : maybe more on project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i have to know what it has to do , so if you wan na you know the changing the channels kind of s thing is , i have to integrate that in the design . project manager : okay . so he 's layout and you 're function . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : form function okay . industrial designer : i think that 's a that 's a good separation . marketing : okay . user interface : but do i have to to uh to yeah to make the the menu layout also ? or project manager : yeah . user interface : are you going to do that ? marketing : yeah . yeah i guess so . user interface : yeah ? i i 'm going to make project manager : i think i that 's your department yes , user interface : yeah o okay . project manager : because w he already knows what industrial designer : yeah we have to kind of work together . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : if if i make the the the yeah the menu like , i have to state which function has to be in the menu , project manager : but we 're not allowed . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : and then you have to decide , it 's , in a in a way that b is user-friendly . user interface : yeah . okay . y you you are going to make a list of what functions are uh are going to to be on the the screen , the menu screen . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and i 'm going to make a a nice menu uh with with pages and yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think yeah . marketing : with with some l with some layers in it . project manager : yeah and also make clear which buttons to press to get certain result , marketing : so some menus . project manager : because that 's always the difficulty . marketing : yeah . project manager : every device has its own user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . well i guess this this button , the the the okay , project manager : menu okay . marketing : menu okay . or you can incorporate two uh difference uh different buttons . uh like uh for your mobile phone . um so this is only for to get in the menu , or to exit it . and then one to confirm , and one to go one step back . project manager : back . yeah . marketing : so it 's like the the save button on your your mobile phone , if you have a nokia or like that . or the or the no button . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : to go one step back you it 's only two extra buttons , user interface : yeah . w we marketing : but if it if it 's very clear that they are for the screen user interface : uh i think we have to to group , to make two groups . um the one group for the for the display , and one group for the basic functions , and industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah but they 're incorporated ? up and down is user interface : yeah okay but we we have a m marketing : yeah because this this is used for both . user interface : yeah but maybe that 's that 's not uh project manager : smart ? user interface : yeah if you 're if you 're z zapping uh with your uh yeah remote control , you can press the the menu button , and then you are suddenly into the the yeah the display . marketing : into your screen . okay . so you industrial designer : you wan na separate uh marketing : l should leave the menu button out of here . user interface : yeah . marketing : and and just put it under the screen , the screen project manager : put it on top . user interface : yeah j just just group group the yeah we make these the advanced functions and these the basic functions . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so we make a yeah a line between them . marketing : yeah . but we should place the screen on top , right ? project manager : well user interface : f oh yeah . okay yeah we swap uh okay . project manager : but that 's uh j jurgen 's department . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . so we make it a marketing : yeah . you just you just find out and . project manager : you just make the layout . you user interface : okay . project manager : do we do the extra two buttons or not ? user interface : uh industrial designer : i think you should . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it 's easier . if you put too many functions in one button it gets confusing . project manager : yeah okay . that 's true . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . so we have a a menu button and a s project manager : and to , okay and back , also . user interface : okay . okay and back button . marketing : yeah . yeah , or confirm and back . whatever . project manager : and of course the four arrows . marketing : yeah . project manager : but those are still y doubly used . both the lcd marketing : should we save this picture , or or you know what it looks like ? user interface : yeah i 'm i 'm not s clear about uh the the extra two buttons . we have a menu button and project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . that that just to to activate the screen . so user interface : that 's the the one with the yeah okay . project manager : menu button access the menu in the lcd screen . marketing : and then with these buttons , woa , y you navigate . project manager : you can navigate . user interface : okay . project manager : but you can also navigate the channels . and the volume . user interface : okay so that that 's not uh yeah that those are project manager : those are both both user interface : multifunctional . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : hey is it interesting for users if we put led lights under the buttons ? so that if you uh press on the menu function that only the buttons that are used for the menu are ligh li light up . marketing : yeah . l l litten up yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : oh five minutes . marketing : that 's very good idea . alright . project manager : light uh marketing : yeah that 's a good idea because then it becomes clear which buttons are active now , which you can use . industrial designer : yeah and then it 's also easier to integrate several functions in one button . project manager : yeah sure . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : um marketing : so project manager : anything else ? marketing : those buttons are are lit up . industrial designer : i think not . marketing : but just one thing . should we use those two ? them ? or only this to to scroll ? project manager : i 've marketing : and then use the two functional buttons to confirm , to go into something ? oh no we have to use this to adjust some some bars ? project manager : volume . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah keep it optional 'cause maybe you can you know go left to right and up and down in a in one menu . marketing : yeah . and maybe we should use this also as an okay button , still . and then just only a back button . project manager : well we have those buttons . we use all four . user interface : no industrial designer : the pr the problem with the okay button in the middle is , sorry project manager : yeah okay go ahead . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : sorry , uh is uh if you 're pressing up and down , you can easily press the okay once you , when you 're not already at your choice . user interface : yeah . so maybe make one uh one okay button and and one navigation button . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah that was already decided . marketing : and one back . user interface : yeah the with with the the channel and the volume uh yeah m a multifunctional navigation button . project manager : okay that 's what we decided earlier on . user interface : yeah okay . yeah . project manager : right okay . so marketing : yeah . industrial designer : you wan na close down huh ? project manager : yeah i wan na close down . user interface : project manager : i have to , sorry . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's not because i do n't like you but marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that 's okay . project manager : yh we have lunch break , industrial designer : already . project manager : and then we can work for thirty minutes , and i have to write very fast to make the minich min minutes . and then uh we 'll see marketing : yeah . industrial designer : alright . how m how long is the lunchbreak ? project manager : i do n't know . nobody told me . marketing : we have to ask . user interface : but do we have to write uh to write down uh the our stuff now ? or first lunchbreak ? industrial designer : okay . project manager : no i th believe there 's first lunch break . user interface : because i i 've everything in my head now so project manager : yeah . or you can just user interface : okay . project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah . project manager : 'kay . marketing : project manager : i think you can put uh the laptop back in the room and user interface : 'kay . industrial designer : this is user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yes sir . marketing : time pressure . project manager : 'kay . yeah it 's a lot of pressure . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . sorry for my uh not finished presentation uh . project manager : that 's okay . oh yeah . user interface : oh no no . marketing : yeah we 'll kick your ass later . no . uh . project manager : industrial designer : bring it on . project manager : i do n't know if it works but it should be saved . marketing : aye y you saved it ? does it save automatically in the project folder ? or project manager : yeah . it 's uh marketing : okay . we 'll see . project manager : should be here . smart board . marketing : just put back my laptop . project manager : do n't know if you can use it but marketing : alright . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah you can open it with the picture preview or stuff like that . user interface : and uh we have to make uh some maps with uh with the all the the data we uh gathered . project manager : yeah . i try to organise it by these three . user interface : . it 's it 's just my own map so i put everything into the project manager : yeah yeah yeah . marketing : project manager : i do n't really mind . i just put the minutes here and we 'll see . user interface : but you got some extra information uh project manager : yeah that 's in the functional design uh folder . user interface : okay . marketing : project manager : yeah . yeah that 's just basically what i just showed . user interface : but where do you did you get the newsflash ? project manager : yeah . yeah i got it by user interface : you 're the only one uh okay . project manager : yeah . i 'm gon na get kicked if i do n't do it so marketing : internet . user interface : okay . industrial designer : alright . marketing : alright . user interface : yeah . project manager : make me proud . industrial designer : i 'll try to . marketing : industrial designer : so first we have a lunchbreak now ? user interface : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : alright . project manager : i believe so . just ask . </s>
<s> summarize the ideas of the individual presentations on the design , the functions and the target users of the remote control . </s> industrial designer : . user interface : hello . 'kay . project manager : you all saw the newsflash ? industrial designer : it 's project manager : or you got the same message ? marketing : yeah i i just saw it one minute ago . project manager : yeah sorry . industrial designer : i do n't know . marketing : when i uh industrial designer : i did n't see it yet i think . user interface : newsflash ? d did i miss something ? marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah i received an email so i thought i i ca n't mail you so i thought i 'd just drop it in the folder , but marketing : yeah pretty much . industrial designer : hey what 's wrong with my computer ? user interface : okay . project manager : is it unlocked ? industrial designer : . marketing : mm . yeah that 's my presentation . project manager : woah . i uh kind of opened it . uh industrial designer : what the marketing : oh right . user interface : i think you have to uh change your desktop uh project manager : okay . marketing : user interface : size . marketing : ooh . project manager : 'kay . everybody ready ? industrial designer : not really . marketing : well industrial designer : sorry . project manager : no no no . yes yes yes . user interface : computer is uh not functioning ? marketing : alright . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay . where do i find this ? i 'm not so g display huh ? user interface : uh display . marketing : user interface : and then uh settings ? industrial designer : appearance ? user interface : mm i 'm not sure i . marketing : you read the newsflash ? project manager : 'kay . can we get started industrial designer : no what was it about ? project manager : or is there some pressing issue ? industrial designer : yeah my computer is not functioning properly . project manager : oh no pressing . user interface : marketing : project manager : did you plug in the power cable when you come back ? industrial designer : yeah yeah . no but my screen is reduced in size . project manager : yeah . that 's difficult . yeah . user interface : marketing : what ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : feedback . user interface : okay . project manager : industrial designer : okay . marketing : alt delete . project manager : yeah . user interface : format . project manager : format save . marketing : . so it does n't draw the attention away . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : this is dreadful . user interface : i made uh uh my own map . project manager : oh yeah sure . industrial designer : no not this , but the task . user interface : it 's a project manager : you have playstation also ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . no that 's okay . no i just flapped it , closed it , took it here and then this happened . ah . uh where was it ? in settings ? okay . alright . thank you . do you guys like your tasks ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i spent a lot of time thinking about what i was gon na do and then a couple of minutes before this i get my function you know the information that i need . user interface : yeah wa wa you actually yeah . but it it 's not clear what you have to to to type uh type in your presentation . industrial designer : so frustrating . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so marketing : yeah . i i had a whole idea and then just was typing it and then oh . i have to do that so switch . industrial designer : yeah yeah exactly . this presentation is mainly based on my own ideas 'cause i had n't time to intergrate tha the information yet so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : really annoying . project manager : okay . so there we are again . marketing : by your humble p_m_ . project manager : yeah . marketing : project manager : okay this is the agenda . um we have three presentations , i heard . marketing : user interface : really . project manager : yeah really . so who wants to start ? marketing : yeah that 's fine . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we have to start it right away ? project manager : yeah . uh this is you ? marketing : functional ? yeah functional requirements . project manager : 'kay . marketing : alright . i 'm gon na talk about functional requirements . um well uh some research has be done uh has been done . uh observing of one hundred uh subjects in the usability lab using a remote control . uh and they also filled in a questionnaire . the findings were um , well you can see them for yourself . they disliked the look-and-feel of current remotes controls . users think they 're ugly . um they do not match the the operating behaviour of the users . so they they d they do n't match what they want to have on it . um they are often lost somewhere in the room . um it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote control . and they 're bad for r_s_i_ . i do n't know uh how a user can reach that but okay . um there is also uh was also some research on uh the most relevant and and and irrelevant uh f functions . uh most irrelevant and less used were audio settings , mono , stereo , uh pitch , bass . um screen settings for brightness and colour and stuff like that . um but they are used . i mean the industrial designer : so they do need to be in the project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah they do need to be on the on the remote control . industrial designer : alright . marketing : i mean if you ca n't control the the sound settings i mean if you dislike a very uh loud bass or something , you you need to change that . project manager : often . marketing : so um yeah we have to . industrial designer : by the way my tv does n't have an equ equaliser but marketing : we c we c yeah i mean w we ca n't project manager : next generation does . industrial designer : okay . marketing : my my tv has , industrial designer : no . alright . marketing : but we we can leave them uh away . uh most relevant , uh most used functions , uh they speak for themselves i guess . uh power button , uh channel , volume selection . uh teletext but we can skip that because i saw the newsflash , and teletext is so outdated that it it 's i should not be used uh any more in the future . project manager : n not used anymore . marketing : so forget this one . user interface : okay . marketing : uh channel settings , so for programming uh your channels in in the right order . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : by the way where did you guys get that newsflash from ? user interface : yeah . i was wondering uh industrial designer : i did n't get anything . marketing : yeah , on on the project uh project manager : yeah . not by mail . i receiv the mail but you do n't . so user interface : but you you 've got more information than uh . marketing : no so it 's a text file n in the project folder . so teletext can be skipped . project manager : that 's in the presentation , so industrial designer : alright . marketing : um there was some research on new features in a remote control . uh about an lcd screen uh and speech recognition . well we got an update for the for the audience . or the the the targeted group . so it 's above forty i guess . project manager : uh below i believe . marketing : the new product ? or below project manager : yeah below forty . marketing : because that 's pretty relevant . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i thought i read a project manager : our current customers are in the age group forty plus . marketing : yeah ? project manager : and the new product should reach new markets , which is the customers below forty . marketing : below ? okay well user interface : but where did you get uh that information ? project manager : that 's in a newsflash . marketing : that 's that 's in the newsfla project manager : user interface : okay . marketing : okay that 's a good to know . um because you see see a clear distinction between the age groups , concerning the features . user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean uh above forty people are not so interested uh not so interested in a screen or speech recognition . uh but below that age they uh they pretty much are . so i think we can build that in . um yeah well we can skip this part as well , because i thought i read above forty so we could skip the features , but we just have to build them in because uh they find it very interesting . um well we have to keep all the classic functions but make the buttons as user-friendly as possible . um and and also there 's so not only the design of the bus uh buttons but o how you can push them , and stuff like that . so the physical uh aspect of it . um and i think and certainly for for the for the lower age groups , uh nice design , which uh does not make the remote control in your room . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's it 's actually a part of your interior , of of your design in your room . so it 's the people can say , well what 's that , well that 's my remote control , so it 's d it has to look nice and feel nice , and and have all the functions that uh project manager : yeah . but it also needs to have corporate identity . marketing : yeah so the the logo has to be project manager : present and the colours . marketing : uh present yeah , and the colours as well . project manager : so we ca n't change much of that . industrial designer : do we have uh yeah . marketing : yeah so but i i do n't think that 's that 's a problem because the thing has to have a colour anyway , and most of the times there is a brand present on it . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yeah . yeah . marketing : so i think that 's not gon na gon na affect it very uh very much . project manager : okay . marketing : well that are the the consequences uh on a marketing uh part . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : alright . user interface : okay . project manager : it 's open already so you can use to marketing : . project manager : find yours . user interface : mm . it 's project manager : f_ five . user interface : f_ five . okay . project manager : go jurgen . user interface : oh . what is this ? marketing : user interface : oh no . industrial designer : user interface : how do i uh project manager : you pressed alt f_ four ? user interface : no no no . i pressed the mouse button . project manager : oh great . user interface : industrial designer : it 's th that 's the self-destruct button . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . okay . project manager : uh maybe you can do it from your computer so talk us through it . user interface : okay . um if you all go stand around uh marketing : yeah . just yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : computer industrial designer : alright . marketing : sure . user interface : um project manager : that 's nice . f_ five . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : alright . user interface : i uh had uh two examples . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um this one is the the yeah the advanced one with a lot of options and functions and buttons . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : this the easy one marketing : yeah . user interface : i think we have to to combine them . and uh yeah merge the best functions of all examples . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . user interface : um but yeah the the age is uh under forty ? project manager : the mm yeah . marketing : yeah and and and marketing research stated that that that kind of users are not afraid of of a lot of functions . user interface : so we okay so so we have the option for more functions . marketing : so not not too much but yeah . user interface : um yeah . industrial designer : and we do have to integrate the screen and the the speech marketing : and the speech recognition yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : alright . user interface : uh yeah this this one we can remove for kids . it 's just only for adults so uh we can uh use some advanced options . but marketing : yeah from age of sixteen so yeah . user interface : yeah but i prefer we we uh use the the basic options uh yeah . we have to to make them very easy so for just uh zapping around the channels you can just push one button . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but if you want to to use your your video recorder or something else , you should use use an uh an advanced option . marketing : yeah but uh the the newsflash also stated that it should control only one device , only your television . user interface : okay one device . project manager : yeah . so n it 's very easy . user interface : okay . i did n't see . project manager : now yeah it 's okay . user interface : okay and i also uh yeah . w yeah . marketing : so there are not extra options in this case , but uh project manager : okay . user interface : we have to make it fashionable . like you uh said uh before . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh yeah the basic functions . um yeah only use a extra function if they are really needed . project manager : yeah so maybe you can hide them or something . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah well what what we can do with the screen is is all the the configuration options , you can put that in the screen . project manager : yeah you make a screen menu or something . marketing : and the and the yeah screen menu to to to uh to do that , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and then the basic function just on the device itself . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it looks very simple and all the advanced features are hidden in the screen , uh with a clear menu . project manager : yeah and the other oth other uh functionality is the screen . user interface : yeah . project manager : what does the screen do ? user interface : did i uh industrial designer : alright . marketing : uh . what are wh project manager : yeah . it 's low power . user interface : did i break it ? marketing : what . project manager : so what does the screen do ? they said they needed it but what does it do ? what do they want with the screen ? user interface : for for the advanced functions i think . project manager : yeah that 's what we make it up . marketing : yeah well it yeah it did n't project manager : so but what did the marketing marketing : it did n't say what they want to do with the screen . well i , my guess is it 's it 's pretty handy for advanced uh advanced functions . project manager : yeah okay it 's handy . with no predefined uh user interface : like searching for channels and industrial designer : ah look . marketing : yeah searching for channels , programming them . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we have your uh oh never mind . project manager : we 're back online . user interface : okay . that 's uh i 'm al i 'm almost finished so project manager : okay . user interface : um the we have to to to watch out for the i if we make it f very fashionable , it it the functional functionality will go down . so we have to make uh a compromise between functionality and fashional fashionable project manager : mm-hmm . content and form . user interface : yeah content and form . industrial designer : . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : now that that was uh was the end . project manager : that was the end . okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well my presentation is a bit uh sucky . marketing : well you can improvise right ? project manager : uh which one is it ? technical functions ? industrial designer : yeah a little bit . project manager : this one ? industrial designer : uh no . no no . project manager : functional requirements ? industrial designer : yeah i think that would be it then . user interface : project manager : you did n't put it in ? or industrial designer : i have no idea . marketing : so we we can go for industrial designer : that w . project manager : it 's not really english . industrial designer : let me check . i know . project manager : uh kick off . oh working design i got it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we can go for the look-and-feel of the the left example , and then a screen on top of it . project manager : here you go . industrial designer : alright how do i uh skip pages ? project manager : just uh press uh yeah . yeah . industrial designer : the keys yeah ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : alright . um yeah well i was working on this before i got my information . so i was just working off the top of my head and using my colin common knowledge about uh remote controls . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : industrial designer : and well the info on the website which came too late . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um so i did n't really know what kind of functions we had to put into it yet . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so uh uh this is basically an overview of what we discussed in our last uh meeting . those were my uh starting points . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh i was working on a s yeah on a schedule , and i was supposed to do it like this . but um yeah then uh the information came and it was kind of exact with all the steps in the remote control that i had to follow , so i was trying to organise them for myself . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : and then make the project manager : design yeah . industrial designer : the design , a the actual design , marketing : design ? yeah . industrial designer : but i never came around to do that . so i 'm not really sure what i 'm supposed to say about it . marketing : okay . industrial designer : i mean everything speaks for itself i guess . mean you press a button um the it tru goes , it sends a signal to a chip , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : which uh translates it into infrared signal of certin spatial frequencies . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah frequency . yeah . industrial designer : and uh or temporal fr frequencies actually . and then uh through a uh transformer , it the signal gets boosted and then sent to the to the receiver on the tv project manager : yeah decoder . industrial designer : and the tv will translate it into a function . um yeah well this was actually all i got around to do . project manager : blank . yeah okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i mean i dunno if i 'm too slow for this stuff , but uh project manager : work harder . </s>
<s> what did the marketing think about previous remote controls when giving his presentation on the design , the functions and the target users ? </s> marketing : functional ? yeah functional requirements . project manager : 'kay . marketing : alright . i 'm gon na talk about functional requirements . um well uh some research has be done uh has been done . uh observing of one hundred uh subjects in the usability lab using a remote control . uh and they also filled in a questionnaire . the findings were um , well you can see them for yourself . they disliked the look-and-feel of current remotes controls . users think they 're ugly . um they do not match the the operating behaviour of the users . so they they d they do n't match what they want to have on it . um they are often lost somewhere in the room . um it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote control . and they 're bad for r_s_i_ . i do n't know uh how a user can reach that but okay . um there is also uh was also some research on uh the most relevant and and and irrelevant uh f functions . uh most irrelevant and less used were audio settings , mono , stereo , uh pitch , bass . um screen settings for brightness and colour and stuff like that . um but they are used . i mean the industrial designer : so they do need to be in the project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah they do need to be on the on the remote control . industrial designer : alright . marketing : i mean if you ca n't control the the sound settings i mean if you dislike a very uh loud bass or something , you you need to change that . project manager : often . marketing : so um yeah we have to . industrial designer : by the way my tv does n't have an equ equaliser but marketing : we c we c yeah i mean w we ca n't </s>
<s> why did the project manager agree with the user interface when discussing their presentations on the design , the functions and the target users of the remote control ? </s> user interface : uh yeah the basic functions . um yeah only use a extra function if they are really needed . project manager : yeah so maybe you can hide them or something . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah well what what we can do with the screen is is all the the configuration options , you can put that in the screen . project manager : yeah you make a screen menu or something . marketing : and the and the yeah screen menu to to to uh to do that , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and then the basic function just on the device itself . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it looks very simple and all the advanced features are hidden in the screen , uh with a clear menu . </s>
<s> summarize the ideal functions and button layout of the remote control . </s> user interface : okay shou should we make a list of the of all the functions we want uh marketing : industrial designer : yeah . whatever . project manager : yeah . uh marketing : yeah we want to incorporate in uh into it . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'kay . um for those that did n't see yet um the basic new requirements of the management were no teletext , only for tv . uh it should be designed for a use g uh group below forty , but i do n't think it 's w wrong if we can uh target the current customer group as well . and uh the corporate identity should be clear in the design of the remote control . and we have to decide on the functions , and on the , let 's see what was it , uh the target group . we have to make be clear what that is . marketing : group of users , or project manager : yeah users . marketing : because it says below forty i mean . project manager : yeah so i think it 's easy but marketing : i guess that 's that 's the tar yeah uh or male and female user interface : but uh it 's it 's also for children or just uh project manager : yeah it 's below forty so we can decide where to marketing : uh six the marketing research started on s on the age of sixteen . user interface : okay . okay . marketing : sixteen to twenty five , twenty five to thirty five , thirty five to forty five , something like that . project manager : okay . so below forty is okay . marketing : so um project manager : but we need an lower level which to s uh focus . marketing : how do you mean ? project manager : so is it from sixteen to forty ? is it from twenty to forty ? is it from thirty ? marketing : uh sixteen to forty . project manager : yeah ? 'kay . user interface : yeah . we we have to marketing : well i i guess people of sixteen are are quite used to technology . project manager : yeah . marketing : so they they adapt to it pretty soon i guess . user interface : and if we have a larger public we have uh yeah more options to to uh sell our product . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah so what we might wan na do is uh yeah cust i have customised the screen functions , if you know what i mean . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : the uh younger users are more acquainted with these kind of machines so they can use more advanced functions . but maybe elderly people do n't understand it so well , so they need a simpler remote . project manager : design . mm . industrial designer : and yeah that you can choose what the design displays , or wha whatever . user interface : yeah that 's that 's why uh i wanted to to make yeah two uh different uh yeah groups of functions . the the simple functions for for the the whole public , and the the advanced options for the younger people yeah who are more yeah experienced with uh industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . and maybe y industrial designer : experienced yeah . marketing : but uh all incorporated in the screen or or just on the remote itself ? user interface : na i w i should uh put uh the the yeah the extra advanced options on the onto the onscreen display . project manager : yeah . marketing : like like you have a visual of the of the brightness with with a kind of sliding bar and a bus and and stuff like that for sound and and vis and and visuals ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . so is you should have a menu for all the the functions you do n't use regular and which are marketing : uh you can make a if you make a drawing . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . aye yeah . marketing : uh uh . project manager : shall i uh marketing : uh black 's okay . and draw it very big . project manager : yeah . it 's okay . marketing : oh . yeah . project manager : no , it does n't have line control , so marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah we get the marketing : yeah well , this is basically uh it 's industrial designer : the remote ? project manager : the remote , yeah ? marketing : alright the remote ? um well usually the power button is on top i guess . project manager : basic . is on top . which should be easy , easily reached with the thumb . marketing : yeah so it should fit right in into your hand . user interface : yeah . l left top or right uh top ? project manager : t i s should said right . marketing : right . right . user interface : yeah , right . industrial designer : right top . marketing : i most people are right-handed so user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah definitely . marketing : maybe left-handed special addition , but okay . user interface : marketing : if you put it like like here . or something . i dunno . um then you could put a screen , like on a mobile phone , also on top i guess . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah but if you are using the the normal functions , the the basic functions , you normally press them on the u yeah . project manager : do the also with the thumb . so it should be a little bit longer so that you can put your uh thumb , also reach the middle . or you should screen at the bottom and then you can see it very clearly . marketing : okay so y yeah you have you have it in your hand , and the screen is below , and the buttons are in the middle . project manager : you you need to be able to hold it so user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay for example if you put the screen here , it 's more about the functions now than the than the layout . project manager : yeah okay that 's true . layout . that 's for the marketing : does n't work too well . it 's uh it 's bent . project manager : user interface : project manager : i ca n't help it . marketing : . user interface : you broke it . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : . project manager : man . marketing : right . project manager : yeah okay . marketing : okay you get it . uh for example if y if you put all the project manager : marketing : right . project manager : you want the normal piece of paper ? and you have a pen ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and might be easier huh ? marketing : maybe this . kind of works . project manager : yeah ? marketing : like if you have like uh ten buttons for for all the for all the channels , project manager : mm-hmm . uh . marketing : um and here one for for project manager : and the for flipping up and down . user interface : yeah yeah . and volume control . marketing : yeah that that usually uh like here , here , here , here . industrial designer : yeah i project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so you have up and down for the for the channels , and left and right for the volume uh project manager : and left to right . and those can also be used for the menu . industrial designer : yeah exactly . i thought but this is really your department , that we need just the functional display and four cursors . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah okay but this is function so if you can use them for multiple things marketing : and you you have industrial designer : and marketing : most of the time you have one button in the middle . it says menu , industrial designer : yeah okay . project manager : for the menu . yeah . marketing : and then if you press it you the screen gets activated and then you can use these buttons to scroll up and down and left and right to go into functon project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then just project manager : yeah . marketing : mo most of the time this menu button is also like okay , to to confirm a a kind of action . project manager : yeah . marketing : so you scroll into it , okay . you select a function like v like uh bass . you just adjust it with these two buttons . project manager : yeah . marketing : then okay to confirm , and then uh on on each on each screen there 's there should be an option to go back to a to a upper level . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and then finally say okay , exit . or or one button to exit it . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh in one time i dunno , that 's not really my department . user interface : and do we need a a logo on our uh remote control , or marketing : that 's more your uh your department to to uh to project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . but it should be if the screen is here then the logo should be like on on top , user interface : on the left uh top yeah . marketing : yeah . i mean it 's uh project manager : yeah but that depends on where you put the screen . user interface : okay . project manager : but it 's essential that there is a screen . marketing : yeah . yeah i mean the position of the screen is also more essential than i mean we we look where we have space left and then put the logo over there . project manager : yeah . and for the speech uh recognition part , if we want to incorporate that , we need a microphone . marketing : but um yeah so it should be i mean if you have it in your hand here , should be on top somewhere , maybe . project manager : yeah . this would be uh industrial designer : why did we wan na put the display in the bottom ? marketing : i mean i project manager : no that 's not s sure so industrial designer : okay . marketing : that 's not sure project manager : uh we need a display . marketing : but it 's user interface : yeah may maybe because you 're industrial designer : because yeah if you use the functions your hand will block the display . user interface : yeah okay but only for the basic functi if you 're going to use the advanced option , you 're going to press the the menu button and then yeah . marketing : yeah i mean a screen on top looks more lo logical to me . industrial designer : normal for logical t project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : also because people use m mobile phones and they also have the screen on top . project manager : yeah they 're used to it . user interface : okay the yeah . that 's possible . marketing : so you you just have to reach a little bit for the power button . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i mean if you grab it . industrial designer : on once it 's on it 's on . you do n't need the power button . marketing : but most most of the times if a if if a tv 's on standby people just press a channel to put it on . user interface : yeah , okay . okay we put it on top . marketing : so we put this on top , and then make the corporate logo user interface : yeah . marketing : like over here . r_r_ . and j and the microphone , i mean it can be very small . if you look at your mobile phones are some stripes , little little holes . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : maybe on the top or even on the side . project manager : marketing : yeah maybe on the side . i mean if the if the microphone is good . project manager : yeah but then it 's possible that you cover it with your hand so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : true . marketing : yeah okay . so on the on the top is better . project manager : i think that top is the best option . industrial designer : but if you uh if you hold the ma the remote like this , if you put it on the top on the side project manager : yeah okay . industrial designer : i dunno . should be able to work . marketing : yeah . . project manager : depends on the sensitivity of the microphone , but i think that 's okay . industrial designer : never mind . can we leave this up to you ? user interface : marketing : yeah it does n't matter that much . so but um the screen is on top ? which functions did we have left ? i mean this is basically numbers , volume , uh channel up and down . project manager : volume . up . channel up and down , and the control of the advanced options . marketing : screen is over there . project manager : so maybe it , we should decide what advanced options we want to put in the lcd screen . user interface : yeah . if we marketing : yeah . yeah . that 's uh that 's a good one . industrial designer : yeah so we we needed to integrate the sound and uh and image options right ? project manager : yeah so sounds ? industrial designer : like uh bass uh marketing : yeah . sound ? industrial designer : so we need kind of an equaliser . if you marketing : yeah . equaliser . so if you have sound but not too advanced . i mean most tvs use only treble and bass . user interface : yeah it it 's just a remote control so project manager : and they 're industrial designer : yeah treble , middl middle , bass or something . project manager : they 're not used often so user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . it 's uh pretty hard to write . project manager : industrial designer : ah as project manager : yeah just industrial designer : . marketing : mm . okay but you have sound ? project manager : yeah sounds . marketing : yeah just project manager : yeah . marketing : oh y you have digital uh industrial designer : . marketing : better write it down over there yeah . project manager : of course . i 'm just a secretary . marketing : so you have sound . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : coffee ? marketing : uh yeah sound and then within sound i guess treble and bass ? industrial designer : yes please . project manager : treble bass . industrial designer : the mono stereo option ? marketing : yeah . also . project manager : uh industrial designer : and there there was something else also . project manager : pitch i believe , yeah . industrial designer : and then pitch . marketing : pitch . yeah . but pitch , is n't that yeah that 's the the height of the tone . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the fr yeah the frequency of the tones , yeah . marketing : yeah okay , project manager : yeah and mono stereo . marketing : wh why would you use that ? industrial designer : yeah is n't that that depends on the on the signal of the of what program you 're watching . marketing : if people like talk like uh yeah . project manager : and also the tuning part ? marketing : programming part . project manager : yeah programming . so channel programming ? marketing : uh so we have sound , yeah ? channel programming . industrial designer : and yeah in the functionality of the user interface : television uh itself uh industrial designer : no no of the remote uh do do we want uh the buttons to make sound when you press them ? as a confirmation or whatever you know ? i dunno . marketing : i think it g it gets annoying . project manager : yeah . marketing : i mean most mobile phones used that in the beginning but user interface : we we could make an option for it , but uh you can disable s industrial designer : under the a yeah advanced option menu you can put those things . user interface : yeah . but uh the the television itself has also the the options brightness and uh screen colour etcetera . so marketing : yeah . project manager : contrast yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah but people do n't want to sit on their knees on their knees in front of their television with only three buttons then it 's very hard to project manager : mm . no . uh , so contrast , marketing : y yeah contrast and brightness ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : bright , marketing : yeah those are the most used i guess . if you look at your monitor . project manager : uh and the others were in your presentation right ? so i can just copy those ? marketing : well yeah well i guess that these were the only ones , i guess . project manager : okay . it 's easy . industrial designer : but so we have we have tv options , which is all this . marketing : yeah . i will look it up . project manager : yeah the button options and the lcd options . industrial designer : the sound , sound and image . and you have in that uh the indeed the remote control options . project manager : indeed . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so we need two menus kind of thing . project manager : yeah you have basically a button menu , which you can use directly , uh according to the old principle . industrial designer : uh-huh . project manager : and the lcd options are activated by some some software options , thats communicates with the infrared uh decoder yeah . marketing : yeah with the chip and then i mean project manager : so you you have an additional processor and and software part . marketing : uh yeah . well yeah we have power button , whether that 's present . project manager : compared to o industrial designer : alright . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : channel volume selection present . uh numbers present . yeah a audio settings , mono , stereo , pitch , bass , treble . screen settings , brightness and colour . project manager : l_ s yeah . colour . yeah i i call it contrast . marketing : yeah con contrast is project manager : yeah i make it c colour . marketing : yeah okay , colour and brightness . project manager : yeah . marketing : um and what you say , channel settings or channel programming ? so you you have an option to to start scanning all the frequencies , and when it encounters one , well it shows on your tv . and then you can um project manager : yeah and automatically um mm-hmm . marketing : uh and then you can select uh a number in your remote on which you want to save it . project manager : yeah so i 've g channel program is autoseek ? marketing : yeah , autoseek . project manager : uh name a channel , or marketing : well most tvs automatically display the name , which they get through the cable . project manager : oh they get automatic names , okay . marketing : yeah . so you only have to choose the position on your project manager : . marketing : it only has to match the the channel frequency on your tv , with with the with the position on your tv and and so your remote . project manager : yeah . yeah but can you also say i want f uh veronica on the channel number uh five or industrial designer : help . marketing : if you already programmed it . project manager : yeah . marketing : if you want to move it . yeah that should be possible too . project manager : yeah . how do you call that ? marketing : yeah how do you call that ? mm ? wait you you should be able to to browse through a list or something , which w displays all the all the values , all the channels which are possible . project manager : channels ? yeah . marketing : i mean like one to f thirty of or ninety or whatever . project manager : ninety nine or something . yeah . marketing : just browse through it and then um in some kind of way see if it if it if it is programmed . project manager : s swap channels ? can i call it that ? marketing : yeah . swap channels . project manager : swap 's good option . okay . uh other functions ? marketing : so you most of the time if you if you swap it s uh let 's say for example you have uh r_t_l_ five on on channel five . and veronica on channel eight and you want to move veronica to channel five , most of the times you override the previous uh the previous one . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . well that 's 's up to uh mister user interface designer . user interface : marketing : yeah . it 's it 's pretty uh user interface : okay . marketing : yeah i mean you have to look on on the menu industrial designer : working design . doch . project manager : also . marketing : on the tv . project manager : that 's you 're industrial designer : he only has to figure out how it has to look . project manager : yeah but also , which buttons you have to press to get a certain result ? industrial designer : and how user interface : yeah . industrial designer : to use project manager : and the working design was to specify how ph the physical interation between the components was , as i believe . industrial designer : yeah okay . but you did your homework . but um yeah . okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : marketing : or or is it too hard to to ju to just do it all on your remote ? to programme the channels ? project manager : no i do n't think so . industrial designer : no no . it should be able to do any remote . user interface : no that 's project manager : but i think the communication with the television is difficult . but that 's not our part . marketing : yeah . project manager : we do n't have to design a protocol so marketing : that 's true . that 's true . industrial designer : thank god . </s>
<s> what did the marketing recommend to do when discussing the ideal functions and the button layout of the remote control ? </s> marketing : alright the remote ? um well usually the power button is on top i guess . project manager : basic . is on top . which should be easy , easily reached with the thumb . marketing : yeah so it should fit right in into your hand . user interface : yeah . l left top or right uh top ? project manager : t i s should said right . marketing : right . right . user interface : yeah , right . industrial designer : right top . marketing : i most people are right-handed so user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah definitely . marketing : maybe left-handed special addition , but okay . </s>
<s> what did the marketing think of the screen location when discussing the ideal functions and the button layout of the remote control ? </s> user interface : and do we need a a logo on our uh remote control , or marketing : that 's more your uh your department to to uh to project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . but it should be if the screen is here then the logo should be like on on top , user interface : on the left uh top yeah . marketing : yeah . i mean it 's uh project manager : yeah but that depends on where you put the screen . user interface : okay . project manager : but it 's essential that there is a screen . marketing : yeah . yeah i mean the position of the screen is also more essential than i mean we we look where we have space left and then put the logo over there . project manager : yeah . and for the speech uh recognition part , if we want to incorporate that , we need a microphone . marketing : but um yeah so it should be i mean if you have it in your hand here , should be on top somewhere , maybe . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : alright , that did nothing . okay . welcome to the meeting everyone . just gon na attempt to make this into a slide show . sorry guys . marketing : you may have to do the function f_ eight thing . project manager : i did . twice . marketing : oh , okay . project manager : this 'll just take a moment . user interface : industrial designer : okay okay marketing : project manager : or it wo n't . marketing : project manager : okay we 'll have to deal with it like this then . industrial designer : okay . project manager : alright . um . this is the first meeting uh for developing our , our new product . i 'm heather , i 'm your project manager . industrial designer : hello . user interface : project manager : okay . so um . so that was the opening . marketing : project manager : the first thing we 'll do is get acquainted with one another . if everyone could go around and explain their role and um , and their name . user interface : industrial designer : okay . my name 's poppy . i 'm the industrial designer for this project . um , i 'm going to be responsible for the functional design phase . also the conceptual design and the detailed design for the final product . project manager : nice to meet you poppy . industrial designer : okay . user interface : my name 's tara and i 'm the user interface designer . marketing : user interface : i will also be responsible for the functional design phase , the conceptual design phase and the detailed design phase of the user interface design . project manager : alright . marketing : hi , i 'm genevieve . i 'm the marketing expert . i 'm an expert at marketing . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : um , i 'll be telling you guys about the user requirement specifications for our new product . um , i 'll be doing some trend-watching in the conceptual design , and product evaluation for the design phase . project manager : alright i 'm heather and i 've i said i 'm your project manager , um well you can pretty much read what it is that i 'm doing . but um um user interface : marketing : project manager : yeah . and uh tool training is one thing that we 're going to be doing today , um um as well as planning the project , how we 're going to , uh , create this product , and , um , discuss , um , our aims and objects of this , which brings us to our next subject , industrial designer : project manager : is , um , um , marketing : project manager : as a team we 're going to be designing and creating a new kind of remote control . um , we want this to be a marketable product that can be trendy , um , a completely new style , so that , um , can really appeal to a , to a generation that does n't want a simple plain kind of , uh , channel-changer . and , um , it needs to be user-friendly for , um , maybe , for an example , for people that , um , ca n't see the numbers as well , or , um , perhaps an ergonomic design . industrial designer : okay . so this is a television remote control ? project manager : yes , it 's a television remote control . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : right . i believe i should be taking minutes on this right now . so , alright . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um , yeah . um , the way that we 're going to go about this is , um , we 'll have a time where we can , um come up with new ideas alone , and , and work on the project and then , um , after we 've brainstormed and , and thought about , we can come together in a meeting and , and discuss what , what um , what kind of functional design we want to use . same with conceptual design and detailed design . so , um , making sure that it , it 's usable , that as a , um and that it 's , it 's feasible to create , and uh , to come up with a concept of it want , what we want it to look like . um , tool training . is , is everyone , um okay . industrial designer : yeah . got those notes . marketing : yeah . project manager : great . great . marketing : thank you . project manager : um one thing that , uh , we 're going to do is become more acquainted with the , the tools that we have access to for our project . um , one of them is our whiteboard . and , um , as a sort of team-building moment , um , i , i 'd like us to , um , try out the whiteboard by expressing our favourite animal and the charac characteristics of that animal . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : project manager : um , why that , why that should be your favourite animal . so , um , i , i 'm assuming that we should do that now . industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : 'kay . user interface : marketing : project manager : with our microphones still attached to our bodies . okay . industrial designer : okay . user interface : gosh . project manager : 'kay , what 's my favourite animal ? industrial designer : project manager : do come up . user interface : industrial designer : to go first . oh , project manager : this is a team-building time industrial designer : are we all doing it individually ? user interface : yeah . project manager : where , um , , industrial designer : okay , let 's stand up and support you project manager : okay cool , um industrial designer : project manager : my favourite animal , which changes all the time , okay , industrial designer : user interface : project manager : right now it is an elk . industrial designer : okay . user interface : an elk ? marketing : project manager : alright , so user interface : a vicious project manager : and it goes like yeah it 's got like big antlers , user interface : project manager : yeah . looks kinda like , like it has holly growing out of its head . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : do you have elk where you come from ? you do . marketing : we have moose too . project manager : we have moose and we have deer . industrial designer : okay . user interface : project manager : do you have user interface : we have sheep . project manager : 'kay , um . industrial designer : sheep . yeah , marketing : industrial designer : cows . project manager : industrial designer : that 's a great elk . marketing : uh-oh , we have a good artist . user interface : that is really good . project manager : thanks . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'm quite project manager : this is my user interface : marketing : oh , very shapely . project manager : okay . industrial designer : brilliant . project manager : that 's a sketching of my my elk , and it , it is my favourite animal right now , 'cause it is a large beautiful majestic creature , user interface : project manager : that um , that um user interface : project manager : in a way it looks kind of awkward , because it 's on spindly legs and it uh user interface : project manager : but it can really overcome harsh terrain , and although it 's gorgeous it 's also very dangerous , because it has um strong antlers , and uh it can really combat its enemies , even like it it 's a it 's an herbivore but , uh , it can really defend itself . yeah . industrial designer : very nice . okay . project manager : right . industrial designer : project manager : right , i 'm gon na take minutes while , um , you guys express your favourite animals . user interface : industrial designer : okay , i 'll go next . i am a big animal lover . like all sorts of animals , but for the moment i 'm gon na draw a cat , in memory of my poor cat that died recently . marketing : oh . industrial designer : it 's gon na be a bit of a strange drawing , but never mind . user interface : industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : not as artistic as heather 's drawing . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : bit more cartoon style . project manager : industrial designer : but i like cats because they 're so independent , and they always seem to be doing what they want to be doing . um , but that does n't mean they 're completely not sociable , 'cause they enjoy interacting with humans as well , and they seem to enjoy the good things like sunshine and , um , running around outside as well as being inside , and enjoying their food , and generally just , they just seemed so cool and they just know what they 're doing . user interface : industrial designer : uh i reckon they 're sort of , they got it sorted . they know what they want . user interface : industrial designer : basically , that 's why i like cats . user interface : very good . project manager : great . industrial designer : i 'll rub that out . there you go . user interface : okay . i think my favourite animal would be a dog , but i 'm not really sure how to draw one . i , i 've never drawn a dog , i do n't think . i 'm tempted to draw a snail 'cause i draw them sometimes and they 're really easy to draw . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : project manager : i forget her name . user interface : right it 's gon na be a really funny dog , 'cause i 'm not sure how to draw a dog . project manager : marketing : or tara . industrial designer : well there are loads of different types of dogs , so i 'm sure it 'll represent one kind of dog . user interface : it 's a cartoon dog i think . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : a s i do n't ev oh , oh well . it 's a scary cartoon dog . that this , industrial designer : user interface : that does not look like a dog . project manager : it looks kinda like a person . industrial designer : we can pretend . user interface : i 'm sorry . marketing : that 's pinocchio . user interface : how do you draw a dog ? i suppose it has a lon oh my god . right . yous know what it 's supposed to be . industrial designer : okay . user interface : it 's a dog . . um , i like dogs because , um , they 're so good to humans , like they can be trained to be police dogs and seeing-eye dogs , and they 're just such friendly animals . and , like they 're more of a companion than cats . industrial designer : yeah , that 's true . user interface : i 've nothing against cats . cats do n't really like me , so i ca n't like them . project manager : marketing : user interface : but they 're just so friendly and warm and nice animals , project manager : user interface : that do n't look like that . industrial designer : marketing : alrighty . i feel like a robot . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : marketing : okay . um , well i guess i had the most time to think about it . i 'm going to draw a butterfly , because i saw a butterfly yesterday , that seemed to be like the symbol of spring arriving . and it was actually the prettiest butterfly i 've ever seen out in the wild , and i though that was pretty cool in scotland . it was like , well it was a little pointier than that . at first i thought it was a dead leaf . user interface : marketing : and then it landed on the wall next to me . but this part was all brown and then it has these big blue dots like this . and then it kinda there was a green , i think it was a green ring , and there was like red going out like this . project manager : it 's kinda like a peacock . user interface : marketing : yeah , it kinda was actually , 'cause it was this part of the body was really dull , and then it was the most colourful exotic butterfly ever , and i 'm like , wow this is the middle of scotland in like march . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : so i thought that was pretty cool . and it landed by a wall and let me look at it for about two minutes . i wish i 'd had my camera . so that 's gon na be my favourite animal because after all the snow it seemed to say that like spring is finally here . yeah . industrial designer : very nice . marketing : there you go . project manager : great . marketing : uh , what do we oh . project manager : do you hear the eraser buzzing while you do that ? marketing : yes i do . project manager : yea right . marketing : project manager : so , now that we know how to use the whiteboard , industrial designer : okay . project manager : um , the next , um , thing we need to address is our financial department , to meet our our budget , um or not meet our budget but more , um , like what kind of , uh , selling range we 'll be looking at , um , wan na make this um selling price of twenty five euros . and so we have to , um , come up with a way to , to create a , a uh remote control , where um we can like the price to create it will be significantly less . um , we 'd like to , um to , uh , make fifty million euro . i 'm assuming that 's what the m_ means . um , and make it for an international market . um , one thing we 'd have to think about internationally is in the design of , um , like different kinds of , uh , v_c_r_s . things like that , depending on which country you are . another thing for the design team to think about . um , we want it to cost , uh , absolute maximum of twelve euro and fifty cents . marketing : okay , so we 'll have a hundred percent profit then ? twelve fifty . project manager : i 'm bad at math . marketing : okay . project manager : 'kay . um , industrial designer : project manager : so now that , um , that is underway , um industrial designer : project manager : it is discussion time . so this is time for us to bring our initial ideas , any um suggestions that you may have so far , a um your personal experiences with remote controls , and um , um , areas you see that , uh , could be improved in your experience with them . does anyone have any initial thoughts ? marketing : i find that in the dark it 's often hard to know what button you 're pushing . project manager : mm-hmm . so what 's something we could , uh , do to remedy that ? industrial designer : okay . marketing : um industrial designer : i always find that in our house the remote control always goes missing . project manager : industrial designer : it 's always , where is the remote control ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so maybe if you could have some kind of tracking device for the remote control or some signal that you could find out where it was . project manager : industrial designer : i dunno , some kind of alarm . you can press a button on your wall , signal , project manager : yeah . it 's a great idea . it 's a great idea . user interface : industrial designer : 'cause it always gets lost . user interface : do yous not find that , um , like , there 's a lot of , um , buttons on your remote control , and you do n't know what half of them do . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , that you do n't use half of them . project manager : user interface : yeah , i do n't know what they do . marketing : mm-hmm . there 's some remote controls where there 's kind of a hidden panel , so all those buttons that you do n't really use unless you 're programming or something . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's , that 's marketing : that 's useful . industrial designer : yeah , it is . yeah . marketing : so you just have like the number buttons , power button , tv video button . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : alright . anything about , um , the look of the , uh , remote control that you might have ideas about . maybe it could be , instead of like a standard rectangular shape , it could be , um , something more interesting like marketing : project manager : any ideas will do that you have at this point . marketing : could be shaped like a conch , project manager : can hold it . industrial designer : a novelty . user interface : marketing : you know . be like a shell-shaped remote . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : are we going into kind of novelty factors here . like , i 've seen phones like a project manager : well if it 's a trendy original , um , aspect we 're going for . industrial designer : okay . project manager : i mean , you 're the designers , you c , you can um decide what kind of , um , direction you wan na go in , industrial designer : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : but at this point in the , in the first meeting it can be any ideas that we just throw out there . industrial designer : yeah . i suppose , if we 're he heading to have it , like make a huge profit out of this , it needs to be quite a universally accepted thing . like , a novelty thing might only sell a few things rather than , like , a general kind of more acceptable user interface : yeah . marketing : . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but we do n't wan na go towards boring , 'cause that would n't sell either . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so , hmm . project manager : and the key issue here is , is being trendy and original . um , that does not necessarily mean it needs to be outrageous . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : right . okay we have five minutes left . so , just to cover we have one more thing . um , like you can go over your ideas , of course , in your own personal times . um , our next meeting will be in half an hour . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so you have half an hour to , uh , think about what you want to present . or not present but bring to the meeting . um , i_d_ , whatever that stands for . industrial designer : industrial designer . marketing : interface ? project manager : industrial designer . industrial designer : that 's me . marketing : oh , industrial . project manager : i have to remember these things . um . you 'll be beginning your , your working design . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um , u_i_d_ the technical functions design will , will be worked on the next thirty minutes . um , maybe how this can be achieved , and , um , we need the user requirements from the manag marketing expert . marketing : marketing expert . project manager : um , you will get specific instructions , um , of what to do in the next half an hour . and i 'll see you in half an hour , okay ? industrial designer : okay . project manager : 'kay . </s>
<s> summarize the team building process with favourite animals . </s> project manager : um one thing that , uh , we 're going to do is become more acquainted with the , the tools that we have access to for our project . um , one of them is our whiteboard . and , um , as a sort of team-building moment , um , i , i 'd like us to , um , try out the whiteboard by expressing our favourite animal and the charac characteristics of that animal . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : project manager : um , why that , why that should be your favourite animal . so , um , i , i 'm assuming that we should do that now . industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : 'kay . user interface : marketing : project manager : with our microphones still attached to our bodies . okay . industrial designer : okay . user interface : gosh . project manager : 'kay , what 's my favourite animal ? industrial designer : project manager : do come up . user interface : industrial designer : to go first . oh , project manager : this is a team-building time industrial designer : are we all doing it individually ? user interface : yeah . project manager : where , um , , industrial designer : okay , let 's stand up and support you project manager : okay cool , um industrial designer : project manager : my favourite animal , which changes all the time , okay , industrial designer : user interface : project manager : right now it is an elk . industrial designer : okay . user interface : an elk ? marketing : project manager : alright , so user interface : a vicious project manager : and it goes like yeah it 's got like big antlers , user interface : project manager : yeah . looks kinda like , like it has holly growing out of its head . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : do you have elk where you come from ? you do . marketing : we have moose too . project manager : we have moose and we have deer . industrial designer : okay . user interface : project manager : do you have user interface : we have sheep . project manager : 'kay , um . industrial designer : sheep . yeah , marketing : industrial designer : cows . project manager : industrial designer : that 's a great elk . marketing : uh-oh , we have a good artist . user interface : that is really good . project manager : thanks . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'm quite project manager : this is my user interface : marketing : oh , very shapely . project manager : okay . industrial designer : brilliant . project manager : that 's a sketching of my my elk , and it , it is my favourite animal right now , 'cause it is a large beautiful majestic creature , user interface : project manager : that um , that um user interface : project manager : in a way it looks kind of awkward , because it 's on spindly legs and it uh user interface : project manager : but it can really overcome harsh terrain , and although it 's gorgeous it 's also very dangerous , because it has um strong antlers , and uh it can really combat its enemies , even like it it 's a it 's an herbivore but , uh , it can really defend itself . yeah . industrial designer : very nice . okay . project manager : right . industrial designer : project manager : right , i 'm gon na take minutes while , um , you guys express your favourite animals . user interface : industrial designer : okay , i 'll go next . i am a big animal lover . like all sorts of animals , but for the moment i 'm gon na draw a cat , in memory of my poor cat that died recently . marketing : oh . industrial designer : it 's gon na be a bit of a strange drawing , but never mind . user interface : industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : not as artistic as heather 's drawing . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : bit more cartoon style . project manager : industrial designer : but i like cats because they 're so independent , and they always seem to be doing what they want to be doing . um , but that does n't mean they 're completely not sociable , 'cause they enjoy interacting with humans as well , and they seem to enjoy the good things like sunshine and , um , running around outside as well as being inside , and enjoying their food , and generally just , they just seemed so cool and they just know what they 're doing . user interface : industrial designer : uh i reckon they 're sort of , they got it sorted . they know what they want . user interface : industrial designer : basically , that 's why i like cats . user interface : very good . project manager : great . industrial designer : i 'll rub that out . there you go . user interface : okay . i think my favourite animal would be a dog , but i 'm not really sure how to draw one . i , i 've never drawn a dog , i do n't think . i 'm tempted to draw a snail 'cause i draw them sometimes and they 're really easy to draw . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : project manager : i forget her name . user interface : right it 's gon na be a really funny dog , 'cause i 'm not sure how to draw a dog . project manager : marketing : or tara . industrial designer : well there are loads of different types of dogs , so i 'm sure it 'll represent one kind of dog . user interface : it 's a cartoon dog i think . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : a s i do n't ev oh , oh well . it 's a scary cartoon dog . that this , industrial designer : user interface : that does not look like a dog . project manager : it looks kinda like a person . industrial designer : we can pretend . user interface : i 'm sorry . marketing : that 's pinocchio . user interface : how do you draw a dog ? i suppose it has a lon oh my god . right . yous know what it 's supposed to be . industrial designer : okay . user interface : it 's a dog . . um , i like dogs because , um , they 're so good to humans , like they can be trained to be police dogs and seeing-eye dogs , and they 're just such friendly animals . and , like they 're more of a companion than cats . industrial designer : yeah , that 's true . user interface : i 've nothing against cats . cats do n't really like me , so i ca n't like them . project manager : marketing : user interface : but they 're just so friendly and warm and nice animals , project manager : user interface : that do n't look like that . industrial designer : marketing : alrighty . i feel like a robot . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : marketing : okay . um , well i guess i had the most time to think about it . i 'm going to draw a butterfly , because i saw a butterfly yesterday , that seemed to be like the symbol of spring arriving . and it was actually the prettiest butterfly i 've ever seen out in the wild , and i though that was pretty cool in scotland . it was like , well it was a little pointier than that . at first i thought it was a dead leaf . user interface : marketing : and then it landed on the wall next to me . but this part was all brown and then it has these big blue dots like this . and then it kinda there was a green , i think it was a green ring , and there was like red going out like this . project manager : it 's kinda like a peacock . user interface : marketing : yeah , it kinda was actually , 'cause it was this part of the body was really dull , and then it was the most colourful exotic butterfly ever , and i 'm like , wow this is the middle of scotland in like march . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : so i thought that was pretty cool . and it landed by a wall and let me look at it for about two minutes . i wish i 'd had my camera . so that 's gon na be my favourite animal because after all the snow it seemed to say that like spring is finally here . yeah . industrial designer : very nice . marketing : there you go . project manager : great . marketing : uh , what do we oh . project manager : do you hear the eraser buzzing while you do that ? marketing : yes i do . project manager : yea right . marketing : project manager : so , now that we know how to use the whiteboard , </s>
<s> describe the whole discussion concerning project manager 's favourite animal in the team building process . </s> project manager : my favourite animal , which changes all the time , okay , industrial designer : user interface : project manager : right now it is an elk . industrial designer : okay . user interface : an elk ? marketing : project manager : alright , so user interface : a vicious project manager : and it goes like yeah it 's got like big antlers , user interface : project manager : yeah . looks kinda like , like it has holly growing out of its head . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : do you have elk where you come from ? you do . marketing : we have moose too . project manager : we have moose and we have deer . industrial designer : okay . user interface : project manager : do you have user interface : we have sheep . project manager : 'kay , um . industrial designer : sheep . yeah , marketing : industrial designer : cows . project manager : industrial designer : that 's a great elk . marketing : uh-oh , we have a good artist . user interface : that is really good . project manager : thanks . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'm quite project manager : this is my user interface : marketing : oh , very shapely . project manager : okay . industrial designer : brilliant . project manager : that 's a sketching of my my elk , and it , it is my favourite animal right now , 'cause it is a large beautiful majestic creature , user interface : project manager : that um , that um user interface : project manager : in a way it looks kind of awkward , because it 's on spindly legs and it uh user interface : project manager : but it can really overcome harsh terrain , and although it 's gorgeous it 's also very dangerous , because it has um strong antlers , and uh it can really combat its enemies , even like it it 's a it 's an herbivore but , uh , it can really defend itself . yeah . industrial designer : very nice . okay . project manager : right . </s>
<s> summarize marketing 's story and description of the butterfly she drew during the discussion of favourite animals . </s> marketing : okay . um , well i guess i had the most time to think about it . i 'm going to draw a butterfly , because i saw a butterfly yesterday , that seemed to be like the symbol of spring arriving . and it was actually the prettiest butterfly i 've ever seen out in the wild , and i though that was pretty cool in scotland . it was like , well it was a little pointier than that . at first i thought it was a dead leaf . user interface : marketing : and then it landed on the wall next to me . but this part was all brown and then it has these big blue dots like this . and then it kinda there was a green , i think it was a green ring , and there was like red going out like this . project manager : it 's kinda like a peacock . user interface : marketing : yeah , it kinda was actually , 'cause it was this part of the body was really dull , and then it was the most colourful exotic butterfly ever , and i 'm like , wow this is the middle of scotland in like march . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : so i thought that was pretty cool . and it landed by a wall and let me look at it for about two minutes . i wish i 'd had my camera . so that 's gon na be my favourite animal because after all the snow it seemed to say that like spring is finally here . yeah . industrial designer : very nice . marketing : there you go . </s>
<s> summarize the team 's brainstorming process for raising initial thoughts . </s> project manager : it is discussion time . so this is time for us to bring our initial ideas , any um suggestions that you may have so far , a um your personal experiences with remote controls , and um , um , areas you see that , uh , could be improved in your experience with them . does anyone have any initial thoughts ? marketing : i find that in the dark it 's often hard to know what button you 're pushing . project manager : mm-hmm . so what 's something we could , uh , do to remedy that ? industrial designer : okay . marketing : um industrial designer : i always find that in our house the remote control always goes missing . project manager : industrial designer : it 's always , where is the remote control ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so maybe if you could have some kind of tracking device for the remote control or some signal that you could find out where it was . project manager : industrial designer : i dunno , some kind of alarm . you can press a button on your wall , signal , project manager : yeah . it 's a great idea . it 's a great idea . user interface : industrial designer : 'cause it always gets lost . user interface : do yous not find that , um , like , there 's a lot of , um , buttons on your remote control , and you do n't know what half of them do . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , that you do n't use half of them . project manager : user interface : yeah , i do n't know what they do . marketing : mm-hmm . there 's some remote controls where there 's kind of a hidden panel , so all those buttons that you do n't really use unless you 're programming or something . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's , that 's marketing : that 's useful . industrial designer : yeah , it is . yeah . marketing : so you just have like the number buttons , power button , tv video button . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : alright . anything about , um , the look of the , uh , remote control that you might have ideas about . maybe it could be , instead of like a standard rectangular shape , it could be , um , something more interesting like marketing : project manager : any ideas will do that you have at this point . marketing : could be shaped like a conch , project manager : can hold it . industrial designer : a novelty . user interface : marketing : you know . be like a shell-shaped remote . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : are we going into kind of novelty factors here . like , i 've seen phones like a project manager : well if it 's a trendy original , um , aspect we 're going for . industrial designer : okay . project manager : i mean , you 're the designers , you c , you can um decide what kind of , um , direction you wan na go in , industrial designer : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : but at this point in the , in the first meeting it can be any ideas that we just throw out there . industrial designer : yeah . i suppose , if we 're he heading to have it , like make a huge profit out of this , it needs to be quite a universally accepted thing . like , a novelty thing might only sell a few things rather than , like , a general kind of more acceptable user interface : yeah . marketing : . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but we do n't wan na go towards boring , 'cause that would n't sell either . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so , hmm . project manager : and the key issue here is , is being trendy and original . um , that does not necessarily mean it needs to be outrageous . </s>
<s> what new functions could their remote have based on the team 's brainstorming process ? </s> project manager : it is discussion time . so this is time for us to bring our initial ideas , any um suggestions that you may have so far , a um your personal experiences with remote controls , and um , um , areas you see that , uh , could be improved in your experience with them . does anyone have any initial thoughts ? marketing : i find that in the dark it 's often hard to know what button you 're pushing . project manager : mm-hmm . so what 's something we could , uh , do to remedy that ? industrial designer : okay . marketing : um industrial designer : i always find that in our house the remote control always goes missing . project manager : industrial designer : it 's always , where is the remote control ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so maybe if you could have some kind of tracking device for the remote control or some signal that you could find out where it was . project manager : industrial designer : i dunno , some kind of alarm . you can press a button on your wall , signal , project manager : yeah . it 's a great idea . it 's a great idea . user interface : industrial designer : 'cause it always gets lost . user interface : do yous not find that , um , like , there 's a lot of , um , buttons on your remote control , and you do n't know what half of them do . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , that you do n't use half of them . project manager : user interface : yeah , i do n't know what they do . marketing : mm-hmm . there 's some remote controls where there 's kind of a hidden panel , so all those buttons that you do n't really use unless you 're programming or something . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's , that 's marketing : that 's useful . industrial designer : yeah , it is . yeah . marketing : so you just have like the number buttons , power button , tv video button . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> when brainstorming , what was the team 's opinion on giving the remote a novel shape ? </s> project manager : alright . anything about , um , the look of the , uh , remote control that you might have ideas about . maybe it could be , instead of like a standard rectangular shape , it could be , um , something more interesting like marketing : project manager : any ideas will do that you have at this point . marketing : could be shaped like a conch , project manager : can hold it . industrial designer : a novelty . user interface : marketing : you know . be like a shell-shaped remote . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : are we going into kind of novelty factors here . like , i 've seen phones like a project manager : well if it 's a trendy original , um , aspect we 're going for . industrial designer : okay . project manager : i mean , you 're the designers , you c , you can um decide what kind of , um , direction you wan na go in , industrial designer : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : but at this point in the , in the first meeting it can be any ideas that we just throw out there . industrial designer : yeah . i suppose , if we 're he heading to have it , like make a huge profit out of this , it needs to be quite a universally accepted thing . like , a novelty thing might only sell a few things rather than , like , a general kind of more acceptable user interface : yeah . marketing : . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but we do n't wan na go towards boring , 'cause that would n't sell either . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so , hmm . project manager : and the key issue here is , is being trendy and original . um , that does not necessarily mean it needs to be outrageous . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : i wan na find our if our remote works . project manager : me too . marketing : oh . project manager : okay . um here 's the agenda for our last meeting . marketing : whoohoo . project manager : um after the opening we 're going to have a prototype presentation , then we 're going to discuss the evaluation criteria and the financing of our remote . then we 're going to evaluate the product and i think the whole production process , and then we 're gon na close it up , and we have forty minutes , so let 's get started . oh , no , let 's have the prototype presentation . industrial designer : mm 'kay , you ready ? user interface : um sure . you or me ? industrial designer : y you read that stuff , since you wrote it . user interface : okay . well , since our materials are n't exactly what we were going for , i 'm just gon na translate what this all means for you . industrial designer : i 'll be the vanna . user interface : the base is gon na be gunmetal gray , which is what we had decided , and it 's gon na be plastic . um then there 's the latex cover , which is what you see as red . um because it can be replaceable , we just kinda went with the colour . project manager : right . user interface : um and then the buttons are actually kind of poking through rather than on top . um and the buttons will be a l much lighter blue , almost see-through . it 's just sort of a very pale blue and a light-up yellow . marketing : that 's nice . project manager : yeah . user interface : the whole thing lights up if you press any button , rather than it just that one button will light up . marketing : good . user interface : um and then at the bottom we have our logo . um bright yellow sort of design with the r_r_ which will actually look like our logo . project manager : great . user interface : and then on the side you have the buttons . they 're one button , but they kind of push up and down . project manager : okay . user interface : i do n't think they 're scrolling . industrial designer : no . they 're just buttons . user interface : right , yeah . and then yeah , the buttons . industrial designer : on off switch will be here and as you 've noticed on our prototype um they 've ended up with a curvature kind of , by concave sort of thing , except for , you know , ca n't see underneath . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so i 'm hoping that when we get to production we can actually make them like that , because they 're very nice to stock you know , stick your finger in . um the two squared buttons are are two probably least used , menu , mute , user interface : thumb-shaped . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and then these are the numbers , so our channel and our volume will be on either side . user interface : yeah . and then the last thing is just that it 'll be black labelling on top , just which we did n't do . project manager : okay . and did you determine um the curvature of the bottom part of it for the hand , is it gon na be a single or a double ? user interface : industrial designer : i 'd say a single . project manager : single . single sounds good , user interface : single . project manager : 'cause it 's not big enough to really constitute a double . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , it 's only actually the size of my hand . user interface : right . project manager : great . great . i think you did an awesome job . marketing : yeah , i think it 's a beautiful project manager : it is beautiful , and it 's everything that we discussed . user interface : marketing : yeah . good job , you guys . project manager : good job . industrial designer : whoohoo . user interface : oh thank you . marketing : those are really good . project manager : alright what 's next in our agenda ? um we 're gon na discuss the evaluation criteria , and that 's with courtney . marketing : okay , it 's a powerpoint presentation . i do n't really know exactly what we should uh talk about . it 's under evaluation . project manager : right . marketing : alright . um so these are the criteria we 're gon na ask , is it easy to use , is it fashionable uh yeah , i guess we should write these down so we can reference them . user interface : feel good meaning what ? marketing : like does it feel good , like user interface : physically , project manager : right . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah , physically . project manager : sqi marketing : that 's just for current trend . project manager : right . user interface : marketing : it does n't really count , you guys . industrial designer : yeah , it was a little difficult to incorporate the cover with the cherry fruit on it . user interface : marketing : yeah . but it 's so we do have removable covers , right ? project manager : right . marketing : yeah , well then that 's covered . project manager : 'kay . marketing : and so we n k everybody have that ? project manager : i 'll wait . marketing : yeah , she 's got it . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's good . yeah . okay so , we 're using the criteria uh for a seven point scale , and so we need to discuss how we feel . it falls within this range , so for easy to use , do we feel it 's very easy to use ? project manager : are we going to indi user interface : true or false , easy to use . project manager : i say we individually rate what do you say ? marketing : you guys project manager : just orally . user interface : yeah . project manager : why not ? we have okay . marketing : okay . project manager : um easy to use . i vote six . marketing : oh wait , that 's false . user interface : marketing : okay . industrial designer : i 'd say two as well . user interface : yeah , two . marketing : two . that 's what i say . project manager : uh hello , we 're great . user interface : marketing : okay , fashionable ? project manager : um one . industrial designer : at the moment , no . marketing : no . i mean like no , i think it 's very fashionable . project manager : me too , very chic . marketing : i thi i would give it a one . project manager : one , i give it a one . industrial designer : okay . user interface : industrial designer : i 'll give it a two , because at the moment it 's not looking that way . project manager : oh , and ma it 's a prototype , marketing : well , that 's that 's just like that 's a clay , it 's a prototype . project manager : right . user interface : mm i do n't think it 's that fashionable . marketing : what do you think ? user interface : i 'd give it like three or four . project manager : well , now i 'm . marketing : okay . project manager : so , the average is about a two . user interface : but then i 'm not fashionable , so marketing : yeah , it 's a two . project manager : two or three . two point five . user interface : do n't use my opinion . marketing : that 's okay . yeah . industrial designer : neither are all o all the customers we have , either . marketing : um user interface : marketing : does it feel good ? project manager : imagine , since we obviously do n't have that . user interface : does it feel good ? marketing : i feel like industrial designer : uh the shape of it actually does uh . project manager : and it 's i it is very ergonomically designed . it 's gon na be curved . user interface : yeah , it 's gon na be thicker . project manager : yeah . user interface : depth . marketing : i think it feels good . project manager : i think so too . marketing : i 'll give it a two . project manager : 'kay . two . user interface : i 'll give it a one . marketing : what do you say ? industrial designer : i 'd say a two . project manager : alright , average is two . marketing : okay . project manager : is it technologically innovative ? oh sorry i 'm taking over your job here . user interface : marketing : oh no , it 's fine , project manager : go right ahead . marketing : you 're i mean you 're project manager . industrial designer : marketing : um yeah , i mean and it does it have voice i mean the phrase recognition on it ? project manager : yes . right ? we were able to do it with that kind of chip . user interface : oh right , the industrial designer : we could do it with the chip , yes . it was n't we have no reflection of it on the prototype , marketing : and there 's no way you can represent it on here . y project manager : yeah , right . industrial designer : but that 's because it 's only two dimensions , really . project manager : that was 'kay . and we discussed that being included . user interface : marketing : yeah , so . user interface : right . marketing : then yes , then i would well it is n't what else would it need for it to be technologically innovative ? industrial designer : it project manager : well we don ' have the you know , we ca n't say channel , and it changes the channel , channel eight . marketing : and it does n't cover anything other then tv , project manager : right . marketing : so i 'd probably give it a three . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : even though it is for just a tv remote it 's uh very advanced . but it is just a tv remote . project manager : yeah . i 'd go for a three or four on that one , so user interface : yeah i go four . project manager : okay , let 's go for a three point five . user interface : industrial designer : three and an half . project manager : alright , and the last criteria is it is it um user interface : squishy and fruity . marketing : well yeah , so i 'd give it a two . project manager : well , we 've covered that with the user interface : it 's just trendy , basically . project manager : trendy . sure . capable . very capable . industrial designer : it 's capable of being squishy and fruity . marketing : oh , it 's very capable of being squishy and fruity . user interface : okay . project manager : and it 's very important . 'kay , there we go . marketing : yeah . okay , next . project manager : next . marketing : so um our re model slightly resembling a giant delicious cookie appears to be a winner , project manager : industrial designer : marketing : and uh hopefully we 'll sell millions . good job , team . industrial designer : how did you get that in there ? user interface : marketing : what ? industrial designer : the slightly resembling a giant delicious cookie . project manager : it does . user interface : marketing : it it does . industrial designer : that was good . project manager : very good . marketing : thanks . project manager : alright , let 's go back to this no , that 's it . hmm . oops . okay , so now uh we 're moving on to finance , okay . i 'm gon na show you an excel spreadsheet and we 're going to fill it in together based on what components we 're including in our remote and see if it 's under twelve fifty euro . if so , we can proceed , if not , we need to go back to the drawing board a little bit . 'kay ? so let me bring that up . here we go . alright . um it 's not hand dynamo , it 's powered by battery , so we give it a number of components you plan to use . do i just put quantity being one battery , or yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : but if it 's a do you wan na go for this is where we need to make a final call on if it 's a lithium or do we wan na go triple a_s , 'cause triple a_s we 're gon na have t do more than one battery . oh , let 's just go for a lithium . what do you say ? industrial designer : yeah , user interface : marketing : yeah , let 's let 's do a lithium . project manager : i think uh i think the people who purchase this are gon na be technologically industrial designer : it 's . marketing : we 're gon that 's gon nologically advanced , project manager : right . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , down to the electronics um section . we 're gon na need this kind , correct , if we do the voice sensor , marketing : yeah . project manager : so one of those . it is a single-curved , so one of those . marketing : uh . project manager : oh . what 's that ? yeah , that 's correct . marketing : yeah . project manager : 'kay , down here , case material . user interface : it 's plastic . marketing : we project manager : plastic . marketing : plastic . user interface : and special colour . marketing : and special colour . project manager : 'kay . down here , interface type . we 're gon na have the integrated scroll scroll wheel . user interface : no , we do n't have the scroll . project manager : is n't industrial designer : project manager : oh those are just regular buttons . industrial designer : well , that 's the push-button too , right there . user interface : buttons . marketing : but it 's yeah , project manager : this ? marketing : but i so i industrial designer : integrated scroll-wheel or push-button . user interface : industrial designer : we 're really having just push-button interface . project manager : okay , so we can just go um . marketing : but will we w actually we 'll need two , wo n't we ? one for the top and then one for the s one e for each side . industrial designer : but it that just covers the type of button we 're having . because we 're not doing a scroll on the side , it 's still push-button . user interface : oh like the twenty nine means like you have both scrolls and industrial designer : push-button . project manager : right i think she 's industrial designer : but we just have push user interface : push-buttons . marketing : okay . user interface : but we do n't have any scrolls . project manager : i think what courtney 's talking about is do we need to put two here ? marketing : like because there 's like one interface right here and then because it 's not gon na be on the same plane when you press the button . project manager : right . marketing : there 's gon na have to be additional signals on the sides . industrial designer : yeah . okay . marketing : so is that gon na be an extra one on each side ? project manager : i do n't know , they might put us well , let 's just . user interface : two interfaces , is that what w should we s say ? project manager : two or would it be three ? industrial designer : let 's call it th marketing : or three , because of one on each side and one on top . user interface : okay , fine . yeah . marketing : i mean it 's fine 'cause it comes out the same as twenty nine . well less than twenty nine even . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and we 're gon na user interface : project manager : button supplements the buttons are no uh okay . marketing : they 're a special colour . um they 're uh they 're a special form , 'cause they 're indented . project manager : are they ? oh , right . user interface : and then s marketing : and , they 're a special material . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm . well , we 're under cost then . alright . user interface : we 're over ? project manager : no , we 're under . industrial designer : grand . marketing : we 're under . project manager : twelve point five is our limit . user interface : okay . project manager : we 've got eleven point two . user interface : oh , i see . project manager : alright . industrial designer : so we can go to production . project manager : we can go to i dunno what i just did . okay . now we 're gon na talk about the project process um and whether or not we 're satisfied with the whole process and the result . um did we have a lot of room for creativity ? did we have a lot of room for individual leadership , um teamwork , and the means , meaning the technology that we used to produce our little guy there , and if we found any new ideas . now , question is , how do we do this ? user interface : industrial designer : go back . marketing : i think we just discuss it . project manager : discuss , sure . industrial designer : previous . project manager : alright . who want who would like to go first ? industrial designer : we think we got stifled for cri creativity by the company itself , in restricting us only to using a tv remote , initially . user interface : we did n't have a whiteboard . project manager : hmm . hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : oh that 's true . user interface : and no internet . marketing : yeah . no , yeah , that 's a good point . 'cause i 'd forgotten that that was n't our decision , yeah . project manager : and how did you feel about the whole the whole process though ? marketing : oh , overall i mean i thought we did a good job like user interface : marketing : we got to choose basically we had control over minus it being just merely a tv remote we got to choose what we wanted to do with it . project manager : right , and we got say over what how technologically advanced it should be and also how fashionable , which i kind of like marketing : and we 're a fashion forward technology company . project manager : we yep . you know it . industrial designer : right . project manager : um what about um the teamwork aspect ? how did you guys enjoy making the model , the prototype ? marketing : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i think we did well . project manager : i think ya ' did . did you work well together in there , and user interface : yep . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : well , no , there was there was scratching and fighting , but no . marketing : minus that one fight . user interface : gouges . project manager : oh my god , marketing : yeah . project manager : and we 've all been a pretty congenial team here , i think . industrial designer : project manager : we had n't had any ma fallings out . user interface : marketing : yeah . i mean minus you guys being wha what is it , the survey , annoying or what is it ? project manager : irritating . industrial designer : irritating . user interface : irritating . marketing : irritating , yeah . wow that 's a it 's definitely a strong one . project manager : okay . industrial designer : the means , the whiteboard did n't work . project manager : yeah . user interface : and no internet . marketing : yeah . project manager : i have to knock that one down a couple notches . industrial designer : a and our friend here really feels strongly about the internet . marketing : yeah , and no internet . user interface : misses . i do . project manager : user interface : there 's so much available . marketing : and the digital the digital pens user interface : like it 's information project manager : yeah , digital pens . industrial designer : i really appreciated those , yeah . marketing : were they were pretty cool . project manager : they were fine . marketing : yeah they were fun , even though i 'm not really sure what i could do with them , but they are awesome . industrial designer : the use of the laptops for receiving everything . project manager : right , laptops are extremely handy , industrial designer : it was wireless too , so . marketing : yeah . project manager : wireless . and that we have a shared network where we can put all of the marketing : and these things whoa . industrial designer : and let 's not forget the sexy dual microphones everyone gets to wear . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . and big brother . project manager : big brother . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : 'kay , have we found any new ideas through this process ? marketing : um we are really gon na sell this . project manager : marketing : ta-da . project manager : for something that looks cool and also has what i want it to b do technologically . user interface : yeah . project manager : and that 's your right brain taking over , w wanting the artistic , the fashionable , the hip , you know . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : if we all just went out and bought useful things , i do n't think i mean that 's not what technology . user interface : well , that 's why i do n't like uh macs or apples , just 'cause i look at it , and i know it 's probably a very good computer , but i look at it , and i 'm taken back to elementary school , 'cause they look the same . they look like they did when i was in elementary school , marketing : yeah . user interface : and that 's so old-fashioned to me . marketing : yeah , 'cause they 're pretty and just like project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the toronto district school would only use his macs with their kids . user interface : exactly , so i associate them with like really low-tech , really cheap , bad project manager : yeah . just the mac font bothers me even . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh yeah . project manager : but i do like ipods , go figure . marketing : yeah , no , ipods they want all those words for presentation , even the plugs . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : well , i ipods are now quite trendy , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and they come in different colours . project manager : colours . exactly . i mean how many people went out and bough a nokia phone , back when we were like in high school , just so they could get the changeable face plates . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : marketing : oh yeah , everybody . project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : anyway , so that is definitely at work . industrial designer : not me . marketing : mine is amber . industrial designer : i did n't have a phone 'til university . user interface : but the my but my one issue is just like the whole it 's for tv only . i was like who 's gon na buy a remote just for the tv unless they 've lost theirs . project manager : yeah . marketing : look at it . project manager : fashionable chic people will . user interface : you 're kidding . marketing : that is a piece of work . user interface : no , no . marketing : wow . marketing director says yeah . user interface : no , marketing has to actually create the desire for it . marketing : fashionable people will buy it . oh , i will create desire . industrial designer : that 's okay . we can create a commercial where they think that all their needs will be met . this will help them find the one . user interface : ri they 'll be sexy with it . industrial designer : that 's right . marketing : we could have like an adam and eve type commercial , and that 's the fig-leaf . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : oh right . marketing : mm . that 'll sell . industrial designer : and so the serpent says , use our remote . project manager : there you go , marketing . user interface : let you loose . project manager : alright . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , no . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , we 're gon na wrap this up now . um the costs are within the budget , we evaluated the project , user interface : project manager : and now we 're gon na complete the final questionnaire and meeting summary , and then we 're going to have a big giant party , apparently , according to this , so . alright , thank you team , industrial designer : whoohoo . margaritas for everyone . project manager : you did a great job , it was lovely working with you . user interface : good . marketing : you too . industrial designer : yay . thanks to the project leader . project manager : </s>
<s> summarize the team 's evaluation of the remote . </s> marketing : okay , it 's a powerpoint presentation . i do n't really know exactly what we should uh talk about . it 's under evaluation . project manager : right . marketing : alright . um so these are the criteria we 're gon na ask , is it easy to use , is it fashionable uh yeah , i guess we should write these down so we can reference them . user interface : feel good meaning what ? marketing : like does it feel good , like user interface : physically , project manager : right . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah , physically . project manager : sqi marketing : that 's just for current trend . project manager : right . user interface : marketing : it does n't really count , you guys . industrial designer : yeah , it was a little difficult to incorporate the cover with the cherry fruit on it . user interface : marketing : yeah . but it 's so we do have removable covers , right ? project manager : right . marketing : yeah , well then that 's covered . project manager : 'kay . marketing : and so we n k everybody have that ? project manager : i 'll wait . marketing : yeah , she 's got it . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's good . yeah . okay so , we 're using the criteria uh for a seven point scale , and so we need to discuss how we feel . it falls within this range , so for easy to use , do we feel it 's very easy to use ? project manager : are we going to indi user interface : true or false , easy to use . project manager : i say we individually rate what do you say ? marketing : you guys project manager : just orally . user interface : yeah . project manager : why not ? we have okay . marketing : okay . project manager : um easy to use . i vote six . marketing : oh wait , that 's false . user interface : marketing : okay . industrial designer : i 'd say two as well . user interface : yeah , two . marketing : two . that 's what i say . project manager : uh hello , we 're great . user interface : marketing : okay , fashionable ? project manager : um one . industrial designer : at the moment , no . marketing : no . i mean like no , i think it 's very fashionable . project manager : me too , very chic . marketing : i thi i would give it a one . project manager : one , i give it a one . industrial designer : okay . user interface : industrial designer : i 'll give it a two , because at the moment it 's not looking that way . project manager : oh , and ma it 's a prototype , marketing : well , that 's that 's just like that 's a clay , it 's a prototype . project manager : right . user interface : mm i do n't think it 's that fashionable . marketing : what do you think ? user interface : i 'd give it like three or four . project manager : well , now i 'm . marketing : okay . project manager : so , the average is about a two . user interface : but then i 'm not fashionable , so marketing : yeah , it 's a two . project manager : two or three . two point five . user interface : do n't use my opinion . marketing : that 's okay . yeah . industrial designer : neither are all o all the customers we have , either . marketing : um user interface : marketing : does it feel good ? project manager : imagine , since we obviously do n't have that . user interface : does it feel good ? marketing : i feel like industrial designer : uh the shape of it actually does uh . project manager : and it 's i it is very ergonomically designed . it 's gon na be curved . user interface : yeah , it 's gon na be thicker . project manager : yeah . user interface : depth . marketing : i think it feels good . project manager : i think so too . marketing : i 'll give it a two . project manager : 'kay . two . user interface : i 'll give it a one . marketing : what do you say ? industrial designer : i 'd say a two . project manager : alright , average is two . marketing : okay . project manager : is it technologically innovative ? oh sorry i 'm taking over your job here . user interface : marketing : oh no , it 's fine , project manager : go right ahead . marketing : you 're i mean you 're project manager . industrial designer : marketing : um yeah , i mean and it does it have voice i mean the phrase recognition on it ? project manager : yes . right ? we were able to do it with that kind of chip . user interface : oh right , the industrial designer : we could do it with the chip , yes . it was n't we have no reflection of it on the prototype , marketing : and there 's no way you can represent it on here . y project manager : yeah , right . industrial designer : but that 's because it 's only two dimensions , really . project manager : that was 'kay . and we discussed that being included . user interface : marketing : yeah , so . user interface : right . marketing : then yes , then i would well it is n't what else would it need for it to be technologically innovative ? industrial designer : it project manager : well we don ' have the you know , we ca n't say channel , and it changes the channel , channel eight . marketing : and it does n't cover anything other then tv , project manager : right . marketing : so i 'd probably give it a three . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : even though it is for just a tv remote it 's uh very advanced . but it is just a tv remote . project manager : yeah . i 'd go for a three or four on that one , so user interface : yeah i go four . project manager : okay , let 's go for a three point five . user interface : industrial designer : three and an half . project manager : alright , and the last criteria is it is it um user interface : squishy and fruity . marketing : well yeah , so i 'd give it a two . project manager : well , we 've covered that with the user interface : it 's just trendy , basically . project manager : trendy . sure . capable . very capable . industrial designer : it 's capable of being squishy and fruity . marketing : oh , it 's very capable of being squishy and fruity . user interface : okay . project manager : and it 's very important . 'kay , there we go . marketing : yeah . okay , next . project manager : next . marketing : so um our re model slightly resembling a giant delicious cookie appears to be a winner , project manager : industrial designer : marketing : and uh hopefully we 'll sell millions . good job , team . industrial designer : how did you get that in there ? user interface : marketing : what ? industrial designer : the slightly resembling a giant delicious cookie . project manager : it does . user interface : marketing : it it does . industrial designer : that was good . project manager : very good . </s>
<s> describe the team 's disagreement when evaluating whether the remote was fashionable . </s> marketing : okay , fashionable ? project manager : um one . industrial designer : at the moment , no . marketing : no . i mean like no , i think it 's very fashionable . project manager : me too , very chic . marketing : i thi i would give it a one . project manager : one , i give it a one . industrial designer : okay . user interface : industrial designer : i 'll give it a two , because at the moment it 's not looking that way . project manager : oh , and ma it 's a prototype , marketing : well , that 's that 's just like that 's a clay , it 's a prototype . project manager : right . user interface : mm i do n't think it 's that fashionable . marketing : what do you think ? user interface : i 'd give it like three or four . project manager : well , now i 'm . marketing : okay . project manager : so , the average is about a two . user interface : but then i 'm not fashionable , so marketing : yeah , it 's a two . project manager : two or three . two point five . user interface : do n't use my opinion . marketing : that 's okay . yeah . industrial designer : neither are all o all the customers we have , either . marketing : um </s>
<s> describe the team 's discussion and evaluating process on whether the remote was technologically innovative . </s> project manager : is it technologically innovative ? oh sorry i 'm taking over your job here . user interface : marketing : oh no , it 's fine , project manager : go right ahead . marketing : you 're i mean you 're project manager . industrial designer : marketing : um yeah , i mean and it does it have voice i mean the phrase recognition on it ? project manager : yes . right ? we were able to do it with that kind of chip . user interface : oh right , the industrial designer : we could do it with the chip , yes . it was n't we have no reflection of it on the prototype , marketing : and there 's no way you can represent it on here . y project manager : yeah , right . industrial designer : but that 's because it 's only two dimensions , really . project manager : that was 'kay . and we discussed that being included . user interface : marketing : yeah , so . user interface : right . marketing : then yes , then i would well it is n't what else would it need for it to be technologically innovative ? industrial designer : it project manager : well we don ' have the you know , we ca n't say channel , and it changes the channel , channel eight . marketing : and it does n't cover anything other then tv , project manager : right . marketing : so i 'd probably give it a three . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : even though it is for just a tv remote it 's uh very advanced . but it is just a tv remote . project manager : yeah . i 'd go for a three or four on that one , so user interface : yeah i go four . project manager : okay , let 's go for a three point five . user interface : </s>
<s> summarize the team 's discussion and evaluation of the whole production process . </s> project manager : we can go to i dunno what i just did . okay . now we 're gon na talk about the project process um and whether or not we 're satisfied with the whole process and the result . um did we have a lot of room for creativity ? did we have a lot of room for individual leadership , um teamwork , and the means , meaning the technology that we used to produce our little guy there , and if we found any new ideas . now , question is , how do we do this ? user interface : industrial designer : go back . marketing : i think we just discuss it . project manager : discuss , sure . industrial designer : previous . project manager : alright . who want who would like to go first ? industrial designer : we think we got stifled for cri creativity by the company itself , in restricting us only to using a tv remote , initially . user interface : we did n't have a whiteboard . project manager : hmm . hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : oh that 's true . user interface : and no internet . marketing : yeah . no , yeah , that 's a good point . 'cause i 'd forgotten that that was n't our decision , yeah . project manager : and how did you feel about the whole the whole process though ? marketing : oh , overall i mean i thought we did a good job like user interface : marketing : we got to choose basically we had control over minus it being just merely a tv remote we got to choose what we wanted to do with it . project manager : right , and we got say over what how technologically advanced it should be and also how fashionable , which i kind of like marketing : and we 're a fashion forward technology company . project manager : we yep . you know it . industrial designer : right . project manager : um what about um the teamwork aspect ? how did you guys enjoy making the model , the prototype ? marketing : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i think we did well . project manager : i think ya ' did . did you work well together in there , and user interface : yep . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : well , no , there was there was scratching and fighting , but no . marketing : minus that one fight . user interface : gouges . project manager : oh my god , marketing : yeah . project manager : and we 've all been a pretty congenial team here , i think . industrial designer : project manager : we had n't had any ma fallings out . user interface : marketing : yeah . i mean minus you guys being wha what is it , the survey , annoying or what is it ? project manager : irritating . industrial designer : irritating . user interface : irritating . marketing : irritating , yeah . wow that 's a it 's definitely a strong one . project manager : okay . industrial designer : the means , the whiteboard did n't work . project manager : yeah . user interface : and no internet . marketing : yeah . project manager : i have to knock that one down a couple notches . industrial designer : a and our friend here really feels strongly about the internet . marketing : yeah , and no internet . user interface : misses . i do . project manager : user interface : there 's so much available . marketing : and the digital the digital pens user interface : like it 's information project manager : yeah , digital pens . industrial designer : i really appreciated those , yeah . marketing : were they were pretty cool . project manager : they were fine . marketing : yeah they were fun , even though i 'm not really sure what i could do with them , but they are awesome . industrial designer : the use of the laptops for receiving everything . project manager : right , laptops are extremely handy , industrial designer : it was wireless too , so . marketing : yeah . project manager : wireless . and that we have a shared network where we can put all of the marketing : and these things whoa . industrial designer : and let 's not forget the sexy dual microphones everyone gets to wear . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . and big brother . project manager : big brother . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : 'kay , have we found any new ideas through this process ? marketing : um we are really gon na sell this . project manager : marketing : ta-da . project manager : for something that looks cool and also has what i want it to b do technologically . user interface : yeah . project manager : and that 's your right brain taking over , w wanting the artistic , the fashionable , the hip , you know . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : if we all just went out and bought useful things , i do n't think i mean that 's not what technology . </s>
<s> what aspects did n't the team like when evaluating the whole production process ? </s> industrial designer : we think we got stifled for cri creativity by the company itself , in restricting us only to using a tv remote , initially . user interface : we did n't have a whiteboard . project manager : hmm . hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : oh that 's true . user interface : and no internet . marketing : yeah . no , yeah , that 's a good point . 'cause i 'd forgotten that that was n't our decision , yeah . yeah . i mean minus you guys being wha what is it , the survey , annoying or what is it ? project manager : irritating . industrial designer : irritating . user interface : irritating . marketing : irritating , yeah . wow that 's a it 's definitely a strong one . project manager : okay . industrial designer : the means , the whiteboard did n't work . project manager : yeah . user interface : and no internet . marketing : yeah . project manager : i have to knock that one down a couple notches . industrial designer : a and our friend here really feels strongly about the internet . marketing : yeah , and no internet . user interface : misses . i do . </s>
<s> what aspects did the team like when evaluating the whole production process ? </s> project manager : and how did you feel about the whole the whole process though ? marketing : oh , overall i mean i thought we did a good job like user interface : marketing : we got to choose basically we had control over minus it being just merely a tv remote we got to choose what we wanted to do with it . project manager : right , and we got say over what how technologically advanced it should be and also how fashionable , which i kind of like marketing : and we 're a fashion forward technology company . project manager : we yep . you know it . industrial designer : right . project manager : um what about um the teamwork aspect ? how did you guys enjoy making the model , the prototype ? marketing : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i think we did well . project manager : i think ya ' did . did you work well together in there , and user interface : yep . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : well , no , there was there was scratching and fighting , but no . marketing : minus that one fight . user interface : gouges . project manager : oh my god , marketing : yeah . project manager : and we 've all been a pretty congenial team here , i think . industrial designer : project manager : we had n't had any ma fallings out . user interface : there 's so much available . marketing : and the digital the digital pens user interface : like it 's information project manager : yeah , digital pens . industrial designer : i really appreciated those , yeah . marketing : were they were pretty cool . project manager : they were fine . marketing : yeah they were fun , even though i 'm not really sure what i could do with them , but they are awesome . industrial designer : the use of the laptops for receiving everything . project manager : right , laptops are extremely handy , industrial designer : it was wireless too , so . marketing : yeah . project manager : wireless . and that we have a shared network where we can put all of the marketing : and these things whoa . industrial designer : and let 's not forget the sexy dual microphones everyone gets to wear . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . and big brother . project manager : big brother . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : 'kay , have we found any new ideas through this process ? marketing : um we are really gon na sell this . project manager : marketing : ta-da . project manager : for something that looks cool and also has what i want it to b do technologically . user interface : yeah . project manager : and that 's your right brain taking over , w wanting the artistic , the fashionable , the hip , you know . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : if we all just went out and bought useful things , i do n't think i mean that 's not what technology . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : hello , uh this meeting we are it 's fo should be focused on the conceptual design of the remote control . marketing : hello . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : hello . project manager : um the goal of this meeting is to reach a decision at the end on the concept and i think the last time we talked about an a lot and we had a rough idea of what is going to be , but uh in th at the end of this meeting we have to to reach a decision . so , uh we will have again three presentation , from all of you , and uh i hope it will be fast because i would like to have time to for long discussion and and decisions . so , who wants to start ? okay . marketing : okay . user interface : no , no , you you can start . project manager : so start , uh marketing : okay , i 'll start . can you open my presentation , project manager : marketing : please . project manager : uh . marketing : i 'm number four . project manager : this one ? marketing : trend . yep . can you pass the mouse , please . oh okay , that 's fine . project manager : turn . marketing : okay . um so basically i just want to presented to you present to you some recent results we 've had from um looking at uh um some remote control market research and some fashion trends around the world . um the fashion trends we got from talking to our our contacts in the fashion industry based in paris and milan . um so f from our market research basically we 've come to the conclusion that a fancy look and feel , um as opposed to a functional look and feel , is our number one priority . um fancy is is is is the , you know , highest priority . secondly um that our remote control needs to be techn technologically innovative . um so this is t number two priority but it 's two times less important as the fancy criteria . um and third thirdly the easiness of use is is the um is is important as well , but again two times less important as the technologically innovativeness of the remote control . from our f fashion people in paris and milan , um we 've discovered that this year um fruit the fruit and vegetable motif will be the most important thing in in clothes , shoes and furniture . so , i 'm pretty confident that our remote control fits into the furniture category . and also um the feel of material this year um is expected to be spongy . project manager : okay . marketing : um so hopefully our remote control reflects that s in some way . industrial designer : what does it mean , spongy ? marketing : uh sort of um squishy . industrial designer : like soft , or something ? marketing : um . yeah soft , project manager : marketing : like a uh like a sponge . project manager : like a sponge . yeah . marketing : i do n't know . yeah . industrial designer : okay . i will see . marketing : um so in conclusion , we need a our remote control needs to be something that 's really fancy , um has lots of technolog tech technology in it . um somehow would be good to have it related to fruit and vegetables with a spongy feel . project manager : industrial designer : okay . user interface : marketing : and that it 's easy to use and from our last meeting our you know fabian told us that w you know one of the requirements is that we have to reflect the look and feel of our of th the real reaction company . um . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , uh yeah . marketing : that 's it . project manager : easy to use , is it uh a as much as important than technology or fancy thing . it 's less important , right ? marketing : less important . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : so um fanciness first and then two ti you know , half as important as that is technology technology , project manager : okay . marketing : and half important as technology is easy to use . so . project manager : so , hamed , can you . user interface : yeah . the second one . could you please show the presentation number three . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i think the biggest struggle will be the easy to use feature . project manager : um . number ? industrial designer : we 'll see . user interface : yeah . project manager : three . user interface : three . project manager : this one ? user interface : yes . just could you please check if it is the first one or the second . uh , n n no , it 's the first one . the second one . project manager : so it 's not this one . user interface : uh yeah . okay . okay . so i am going to talk about a little bit about how this remote control should be appear to be more easy to use . i think uh i think the feature easy to use is more important than being fancy , but okay , we can discuss about it uh later . um generally , generally uh this remote control uh uh should be should be something , in my opinion , uh the first feature is just to be easy to use . so , the more frequent buttons should be larger , they should be placed in a good position uh uh inside the remote control . and uh s uh i can conclude like this , that we should n't need to learn how to use it . it should be we should n't need to es open a a t book and uh start reading and uh learning how to use this uh this uh remote control . okay . so what i found out that uh as i said uh i think it 's better to put uh more frequent uh uh uh ke uh buttons which are used more in the middle of the remote control , and they should be bigger in size . uh the shape of remote control should be in a way which can which should be taken easily in hand . it should not be completely like uh a cube . it should be it should have round edge , so uh then it 's easier . industrial designer : exactly . user interface : and maybe uh just like some toys , some joystick which is easier to take inside the hand . and uh also f uh uh m because because customers does n't like to buy lots of battery , it should not uh consume lots of energy . okay . and my personal p uh preference is uh , as i said , uh just putting this buttons in a special places and covered some buttons which are not used uh that much like settings button , like mobile phone . usually some mobile phone cover the dialling number part , so we can cover these buttons which are not used or uh number buttons for the for the for the can channels , and just put uh volume change or s ch can uh channel change buttons uh uh in the remote control . and if the user needed to do some more complex task uh he he can open the cover and then change settings or something like this . uh . and also uh i think if we put some some some some some buttons inside of the remote control it can be used easier . not on remote control . i dunno if i can explain well . but uh just inside . for example , a sliding or rolling uh uh d uh stuff , if we put it inside then we can easily manipulate with uh thumb . so it can be another uh preference . and uh i dunno but uh i think usage of a speech recogn uh r recogniser can be good . i know that it consumes lots of energy , but if we do it in some way that it asleeps when there is no sound and when it detects some sound it may consume less energy . and i think it 's good because it 's something new and usually young people like something new . so it may not be very useful but because it 's new , people may buy it . uh i personally think there should be a big difference between uh between something . otherwise they prefer to buy something which is coming from a famous company , or . okay . that 's mine . project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh okay , so good news from me uh uh for me from hamed , but bad news from bob obviously , because spongy design , i do n't like it as marketing : project manager : industrial designer : okay , so could you please , fabien , open it . project manager : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : i 'm person two . and which one , uh probably the first one . i 'm not sure but check the first one . i most of the things i have to write myself on the board , but project manager : this one , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's it . just it 's only this slide ? yeah . this this is just uh one thing i wanted to mention and show you that i just uh i just found this , that our company uh developed a s a seven f seven fingers or i 'll just marketing : inch . industrial designer : yeah , seven seven inch t_ t_f_t_ screen , which is good news for us , since we wanted to include a display there . uh so i i probably draw it down raw scheme . project manager : oh , . industrial designer : this is this is the stuff that i can use to project manager : oops . industrial designer : okay , so the this will be like the overall scheme or overall requirements from the engineering point of view . uh first thing is uh this will be the overall shape , no uh i 'm not speaking about the real shape of the device , but the shape of the inside of the device . so there will be some circuit uh for the power . so , say power circuit here . uh the main energy will be taken from batteries that we can uh uh and if we decide to use the speech recognition stuff there , we must use additional source of energy , which i found the best is to use the solar cells which can which can uh supply everything . i was computing all the all the things related to the speech recognition , and it 's okay to use just uh two batteries and solar cells , so . so no problem . there can be also solar cell . uh the main board with all the circuits will take at least seven to seven centimetres , so this is my like hard requirement for the guys from the design . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so at least seven to seven . it depends where you put your screen , because the screen is uh seven inch , so it depends on you where where you put it . marketing : industrial designer : it does n't matter . um it 's just one cord from from the main board to the screen which can be elsewhere . so this will be t_f_t_ . and on the main board we have the um interface to the microphone , which is somewhere , say here . interface to the microphone . then the graphical card uh for the t_f_t_ and the third unit is the i_r_ . the good news is that we can uh we decided to use the infra-red unit because our company has also developed the chip for communication by the infra-red , including all the stuff inside , so it will be very cheap for us . so infra-red here . so the once again the overall requirements , seven to seven centimetres for the board , which has to be which can be spongy but has to be this size , and the t_f_t_ which is seven inches . um i have to check what i wanted to uh from my point of view i do n't care about the about the material used for the overall des uh ov all the device . project manager : can you fit any uh for example a t_f_t_ or any electronic device in a spongy thing , or is there any problem for that ? for example , put electronic card on a spongy thing , i can i can imagine it could be a problem . industrial designer : a all these things in in uh in this box are okay to put in in any shape , basically . but we have to take care of the t_f_t_ . well , sponginess . maybe it a good feature , since it takes if it 's around the t_f_t_ then it 's good , because it 's just keeps it safe , project manager : okay . so industrial designer : i dunno . user interface : well maybe it can have two shells , a hard shell inside and a spongy shell outside . project manager : okay . maybe put electronic in a box and a spongy thing around . maybe after . industrial designer : well , it 's maybe related to the u_i_ . marketing : so project manager : yeah . marketing : ca can i ask a question . industrial designer : a yeah , that 's all from me . marketing : this seven inch t_f_t_ screen , industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : how big is it in reality ? industrial designer : well , seven to seven inches . marketing : so like that . project manager : user interface : marketing : that 's quite big . industrial designer : marketing : uh uh have we decided that we 're gon na use this t_f_t_ screen ? project manager : no , i do n't think it 's seven by seven , industrial designer : yeah but project manager : i think it 's seven the diagonal is seven . industrial designer : to be honest , i was project manager : usually when they say seven inch i think it 's the diagonal . user interface : yeah yes . marketing : but i mean even even that is like this big . project manager : yeah . i dunno i dun i dun one each user interface : project manager : . but , yeah , . industrial designer : yeah , honestly speaking i was thinking that it was seven centimetres initially , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but it 's seven inches . but i i think we can we can cut it . marketing : you can cut the t_f_t_ screen . project manager : let 's go . industrial designer : yeah , no no problem , user interface : industrial designer : because because because then the size of the graphic card will be one fourth . project manager : so let 's cut the t_f_t_ . industrial designer : so marketing : industrial designer : yeah , but no problem to to me to cut the screen . marketing : okay , so industrial designer : so so for the same price we have four screens now . marketing : okay . project manager : these technical engineers , huh . marketing : so , what 's the size of the device ? industrial designer : ah well this is like this is almost nothing . seven to seven to at least well some three millimetres or something . marketing : even from my perspective seven t seven centimetres by seven centimetres is still industrial designer : yeah , but we wanted the big buttons and stuff like that , you know . marketing : is it can you hold that , or ? industrial designer : because if it 's t too small we can we can lose it , at home , you know . project manager : what user wants . he wants a small remote control , or ? uh uh with big buttons . industrial designer : i thought that it it should fit in the hand or something . marketing : yeah , a small c control that they can hold in hand . project manager : it 's difficult . a sm industrial designer : marketing : but is something that 's seven centimetres square e easy to hold ? user interface : industrial designer : w i i think so . i if the roller buttons are on the side you do n't have to catch it like that , but just like this , and you know follow follow well , that 's that 's no task for me , but well seven to seven at least yeah , project manager : so maybe you can finish your presentation , user interface : project manager : and afterwards we will discuss about all this . industrial designer : but oh , okay . user interface : maybe this . marketing : okay . industrial designer : okay thanks . project manager : that 's it . okay . so . no . uh , so i think we have a lot we have to take decision today , so i think we have to do some work to finalise our idea and take decisions . uh first i think energy it 's a key problem because uh it depend what can we have as feature if we use only batteries , for example , or something like that . because can we have lcd and speech recognition with battery , and it 's also r related to the size of the of the devi of the device ? industrial designer : not j uh just a point to the energy th things . if we use the batteries , and the additional so solar cell , then it 's okay for l_ uh speech recognition and lcd , project manager : okay . industrial designer : so no problem in energy , i think . project manager : so okay . industrial designer : but we have to use the solar cell . user interface : so but project manager : uh like industrial designer : otherwise not . project manager : but using how many batteries , for example ? are are what maybe what is the size of the battery industrial designer : yeah i was thinking just common a_a_ cells . project manager : okay . uh one two industrial designer : so like three to five centimetres , project manager : okay . industrial designer : i dunno exactly , but . marketing : so if we use s solar cells , um where is the sun if someone 's watching tv inside ? industrial designer : s uh d does n't need to be sun . it it 's just the daylight , you know . marketing : okay . project manager : the television lights . industrial designer : yeah well i i suppose that i suppose that uh that this remote control wo n't be in the in the room like this , where there is light only when when there are people , but . user interface : marketing : project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : at least when there is tv you can get light from the tv . industrial designer : yeah from the t_ user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i do n't think it 's enough , uh . project manager : i dunno . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . mm . industrial designer : ah it 's a it 's a compromise , no ? marketing : project manager : at least it 's new and maybe technology new technology . industrial designer : yeah , that 's why i wanted to to include the speech recognition , because you wanted all the new things . marketing : it 's it 's quite innovative , yes . project manager : yeah . marketing : and if you watch tv outside it 's very useful . user interface : project manager : so i think before talking about the other thing , it 's important thing it 's the case . industrial designer : project manager : uh what what are gon na be the size , because its weight drives the other what we are going to use as features and so on . for example for the for the lcd , if we choose to have a small device , we can not use this um a such a a a screen . industrial designer : uh the s the screen is okay , but the board , uh that 's the problem . well what what would you guess as a shape ? or what what would be the shape ? user interface : mm . i think i think their being uh large or small is not important . the only important thing is to be able to take it in uh inside hand easily . so let 's say an average size , okay , and it should not be very heavy also . and i prefer to is it should n't have a uniform shape , so in the middle it should be a little bit thinner , maybe maybe . so we c it 's like like some joysticks . you can take uh some some joystick you can take inside hand easier because it 's it 's designed for your f uh taking into account your finger shape and your palm shape . so the general shape should be like this . i think uh seven centimetre by seven centimetre is a little bit large . so uh seven not seven but let 's say five by ten it 's i think it 's that 's my opinion . it 's easier . industrial designer : okay . marketing : which is the same area . industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : could you re could you redesign your board ? industrial designer : five to ten . well that marketing : oh , five five centimetres by ten centimetres . industrial designer : yeah , right . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i think it 's feasib well one um um how could we do it ? we could put the board next to , well , under the lcd and for example make the lcd be totally unrelated to the thing that you hold in your hand . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like holding something , and the lcd to be just on top of it , you know somehow . well but maybe let 's stick to the s spongy thing , like one unit . project manager : oh . i 've i s i think the easiest thing would be to to have a smaller lcd , if it 's possible . industrial designer : well fi five to ten it would be feasible . okay , so five to ten , i i think it 's it 's feasible . project manager : okay . so we are agree with a small industrial designer : i 'll make it . user interface : or uh or i do n't know project manager : lcd . industrial designer : fo five by ten . user interface : but i do n't want to now invent something new , because we did n't discuss about it . so using some lcds we can touch , so we can remove uh keys and just uh having uh , i dunno the name , lcd responding to fingers . project manager : yeah . user interface : touching the screen . something like project manager : tactile or something , yeah . user interface : mm like tactile . marketing : mm , touch screen . project manager : touch screen , yeah . user interface : so but for now if we do n't want to use such kind of screens i i think we using a a smaller screen is better , project manager : yeah . user interface : because project manager : the problem is we have a limit in a month of time , so we can not do something very new . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : project manager : so let 's go for a small lcd . marketing : so industrial designer : okay , so yeah , so so just just give me the the the five by ten numbers that you find the best and send it me user interface : a smaller s project manager : yeah okay . user interface : okay . project manager : so , five by s ten . industrial designer : and i will work it out . project manager : um so what about , so the case we talked about . um something easy to use , you said something easy to use but how does that fit in a fashion way , like with fruit and vegetable , and about the colour and logo of the of the company and so on , now , can we do that ? my first idea is because our colour is more yellow , and the it should be easy to take in a hand , i thought about banana , or something like that , which is fruits , and industrial designer : seven to ten banana . project manager : a big banana . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : okay . rather mango or something or . project manager : um . marketing : well it 's it 's definitely the obvious choice , with the colour of our company . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : i mean what other what other fruit and vegetables project manager : but it 's just an idea . i dunno what you think about , but marketing : do you know of any any other fruit and vegetables that are yellow ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : i dunno if it can fit with the technology . you are the specialists of that . industrial designer : you mean banana . project manager : industrial designer : well , but if it 's if it if the banana is big enough . project manager : so marketing : user interface : industrial designer : then , yes . but if you want to look at the screen , no . well user interface : project manager : yeah , and industrial designer : user interface : i think this is not good . project manager : the screen has to be square ? or it can be like a a shape , quite , uh with curves . industrial designer : well , it can be whatever you want . project manager : it could . industrial designer : but if it 's square then we get four screens out of one by cutting just . but if you want some shape then we can only get like two screens out of seven to seven inches , so . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it 's like more more expensive to have shape like that . but i do n't care . you know , if we fit this requirement . marketing : well i 'd like a shaped screen . i think that 's more important than saving a bit of money on on the t_f_t_ screen . industrial designer : okay project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , m maybe the banana could be like a bit uh fatter than than the c c common one . project manager : yeah . yeah , it should remember banana , but it 's not does n't have to b to be uh uh really the size and exactly the shape of a banana . industrial designer : but user interface : industrial designer : like modified banana , okay . project manager : so we are agree with the banana thing ? industrial designer : well it we 'll stick to banana , or ? user interface : okay . marketing : yeah , banana 's good . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : mm-mm . project manager : so , the last point we decided it 's infra-red , i guess . user interface : yeah , i think infra-red . project manager : everybody 's agreed . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . sure . project manager : uh , so that 's it i think about the concepts . you have other thing to add to this point , or uh no ? so , uh about the user interface , so we are going to use lcd . in the last meeting we talked about uh hidden buttons . i do n't know what we are going to do with that . you talked about the buttons on the side industrial designer : like like peeling of the banana you s user interface : yeah , peeling of the banana . project manager : mm what ? industrial designer : it would be cool , yeah . user interface : industrial designer : peeling of the banana , you know , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : should should discover the other buttons , which are hidden . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : okay . and you mean the first layer would be spongy . user interface : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : first layer obviously spo yeah , project manager : so industrial designer : w it 's it 's like silly , but the people will really appreciate it , yeah i think . project manager : is it is it possible to do that ? it would be a great idea , but is it possible technically ? user interface : uh project manager : like doing a spongy layer of the banana , and you open it . marketing : i think if we if we have a spongy layer on the outside of the banana then it 's easy to make that , project manager : yeah . marketing : you know , to manipulate that to hav be a cover that you can pull off and user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah , some something like a plastic cover covering uh some interface , u_s_b_ interface as in the in uh digital camera . if you see it 's like peeling . you open a plastic cover and you see some u_s_b_ interfaces , some some interfaces for adaptor . so keys can be uh buttons can be covered like this , with a plastic cover and uh when uh and when you open this cover it 's like peeling a banana . so , something like this . project manager : yeah , but do you see that as a rigid thing , or like like a banana , something very soft , you can open like banana , or . industrial designer : well is it possible to make it soft ? user interface : yeah , yeah , yeah it 's a lic like a plastic cover , so . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i think if it 's so then it 's cool ? project manager : so , i dunno what you think , bob , but it would be great for users i think , and very good for marketing . marketing : i think for sure . definitely . the softer the better . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : cool . user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : honestly speaking , i can not imagine it , so far , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but it will be terrible . user interface : project manager : um . and setting buttons hidden in . mm , other remarks , or something , or . something we did n't talk about yes yet , or . i think we are almost there . uh maybe , how can we , if we have a soft thing , like this , and to open it we have to attach it somewhere , i dunno how to do that technically , or . industrial designer : project manager : and how user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : we could use velcro . project manager : yeah , maybe . marketing : or uh ma maybe a magnetic user interface : yes , yeah it 's a good idea . marketing : thing . project manager : ma magnetic oh . user interface : magnetic . mm . yeah or a yeah it can is it can be a plastic cover uh sticking to the to the all the stuff like uh with magnetic p uh magnetic uh magnetic uh materials in the border , so it 's it sticks like refrigerator door , completely . project manager : okay . user interface : and when you try to open it , it will be opened easily . so you you can be sure that it will not be open while you 're uh while while uh you are commonly using uh buttons on the banana . project manager : okay . and what would be the matter here of the first layer i mean ? mm . likes . soft plastic , or marketing : yeah , i imagine some sort of vinyl thing . project manager : yeah , yeah , yeah . marketing : in a in a sort of a with a suede sort of feel . maybe . industrial designer : well since since the since the things like the like the screen and um how to say that , solar cell has to be has to be like kept kept in the shape , we can not b uh so we need that the that the peeling uh i dunno but we should we should take care of these two two things . so , if if uh the solar cell wo n't be visible while the banana is closed , then the material must be able to put the light inside , you know . so that we can reach the energy out of it out of that . marketing : mm . so you 're saying is it possible to have a solar cell and this removable cover and industrial designer : it is possible , but , well if it marketing : and a and a banana . industrial designer : i dunno . i dunno how to how to do it if if t if to if it 's better to put the solar cell to the t to the peeling or outside it , or or inside . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but then it must be some window there , you know . marketing : okay . project manager : and something we forgot , maybe , uh about the speech recognition system , are we going to use it , or not ? marketing : user interface : yes , i think . i think so . marketing : i think it 's important . project manager : it i yeah , it seems feasible , and it would be something very great . marketing : i think one of our p priorities is tech technology . project manager : so we have the de design , the a good shape , new and so on , marketing : and user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : and we have also the technology thing w will be . and even the easy to use thing , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so it will be perfect . so we add also the speech recognition device . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . i agree . project manager : so , that great . we have decided everything . and think we are on a good way . so , um uh the next meeting will start in thirty minutes . um , so uh the the industrial manager uh will uh will work on the look and feel design . the user interface uh uh mana uh manager will work on the user interface device . and the the marketing expert will do the first project evaluation . marketing : okay . project manager : so , i hope you can do that in thirty minutes . marketing : user interface : project manager : and uh , yeah , i uh i think you should work together , s you uh hamed and peter , to work uh in a in a first prototype , and uh more about the shape and so on and how you can manage to put everything together . and um as usual you will receive some specific instructions on . so thank you all everybody , industrial designer : okay . project manager : and see you in thirty minutes . marketing : okay . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the result of marketing research and fashion trends . </s> marketing : okay . um so basically i just want to presented to you present to you some recent results we 've had from um looking at uh um some remote control market research and some fashion trends around the world . um the fashion trends we got from talking to our our contacts in the fashion industry based in paris and milan . um so f from our market research basically we 've come to the conclusion that a fancy look and feel , um as opposed to a functional look and feel , is our number one priority . um fancy is is is is the , you know , highest priority . secondly um that our remote control needs to be techn technologically innovative . um so this is t number two priority but it 's two times less important as the fancy criteria . um and third thirdly the easiness of use is is the um is is important as well , but again two times less important as the technologically innovativeness of the remote control . from our f fashion people in paris and milan , um we 've discovered that this year um fruit the fruit and vegetable motif will be the most important thing in in clothes , shoes and furniture . so , i 'm pretty confident that our remote control fits into the furniture category . and also um the feel of material this year um is expected to be spongy . project manager : okay . marketing : um so hopefully our remote control reflects that s in some way . industrial designer : what does it mean , spongy ? marketing : uh sort of um squishy . industrial designer : like soft , or something ? marketing : um . yeah soft , project manager : marketing : like a uh like a sponge . project manager : like a sponge . yeah . marketing : i do n't know . yeah . industrial designer : okay . i will see . marketing : um so in conclusion , we need a our remote control needs to be something that 's really fancy , um has lots of technolog tech technology in it . um somehow would be good to have it related to fruit and vegetables with a spongy feel . project manager : industrial designer : okay . user interface : marketing : and that it 's easy to use and from our last meeting our you know fabian told us that w you know one of the requirements is that we have to reflect the look and feel of our of th the real reaction company . um . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , uh yeah . marketing : that 's it . project manager : easy to use , is it uh a as much as important than technology or fancy thing . it 's less important , right ? marketing : less important . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : so um fanciness first and then two ti you know , half as important as that is technology technology , project manager : okay . marketing : and half important as technology is easy to use . so . project manager : so , hamed , can you . user interface : yeah . the second one . could you please show the presentation number three . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i think the biggest struggle will be the easy to use feature . project manager : um . number ? industrial designer : we 'll see . user interface : yeah . project manager : three . user interface : three . project manager : this one ? user interface : yes . just could you please check if it is the first one or the second . uh , n n no , it 's the first one . the second one . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about use convenience . </s> user interface : uh yeah . okay . okay . so i am going to talk about a little bit about how this remote control should be appear to be more easy to use . i think uh i think the feature easy to use is more important than being fancy , but okay , we can discuss about it uh later . um generally , generally uh this remote control uh uh should be should be something , in my opinion , uh the first feature is just to be easy to use . so , the more frequent buttons should be larger , they should be placed in a good position uh uh inside the remote control . and uh s uh i can conclude like this , that we should n't need to learn how to use it . it should be we should n't need to es open a a t book and uh start reading and uh learning how to use this uh this uh remote control . okay . so what i found out that uh as i said uh i think it 's better to put uh more frequent uh uh uh ke uh buttons which are used more in the middle of the remote control , and they should be bigger in size . uh the shape of remote control should be in a way which can which should be taken easily in hand . it should not be completely like uh a cube . it should be it should have round edge , so uh then it 's easier . industrial designer : exactly . user interface : and maybe uh just like some toys , some joystick which is easier to take inside the hand . and uh also f uh uh m because because customers does n't like to buy lots of battery , it should not uh consume lots of energy . okay . and my personal p uh preference is uh , as i said , uh just putting this buttons in a special places and covered some buttons which are not used uh that much like settings button , like mobile phone . usually some mobile phone cover the dialling number part , so we can cover these buttons which are not used or uh number buttons for the for the for the can channels , and just put uh volume change or s ch can uh channel change buttons uh uh in the remote control . and if the user needed to do some more complex task uh he he can open the cover and then change settings or something like this . uh . and also uh i think if we put some some some some some buttons inside of the remote control it can be used easier . not on remote control . i dunno if i can explain well . but uh just inside . for example , a sliding or rolling uh uh d uh stuff , if we put it inside then we can easily manipulate with uh thumb . so it can be another uh preference . and uh i dunno but uh i think usage of a speech recogn uh r recogniser can be good . i know that it consumes lots of energy , but if we do it in some way that it asleeps when there is no sound and when it detects some sound it may consume less energy . and i think it 's good because it 's something new and usually young people like something new . so it may not be very useful but because it 's new , people may buy it . uh i personally think there should be a big difference between uh between something . otherwise they prefer to buy something which is coming from a famous company , or . okay . that 's mine . project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh okay , so good news from me uh uh for me from hamed , but bad news from bob obviously , because spongy design , i do n't like it as marketing : project manager : industrial designer : okay , so could you please , fabien , open it . project manager : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : i 'm person two . and which one , uh probably the first one . i 'm not sure but check the first one . i most of the things i have to write myself on the board , but project manager : this one , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's it . just it 's only this slide ? yeah . this this is just uh one thing i wanted to mention and show you that i just uh i just found this , that our company uh developed a s a seven f seven fingers or i 'll just marketing : inch . industrial designer : yeah , seven seven inch t_ t_f_t_ screen , which is good news for us , since we wanted to include a display there . uh so i i probably draw it down raw scheme . project manager : oh , . industrial designer : this is this is the stuff that i can use to </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the size of the device when discussing the overall requirements . </s> project manager : yeah . marketing : ca can i ask a question . industrial designer : a yeah , that 's all from me . marketing : this seven inch t_f_t_ screen , industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : how big is it in reality ? industrial designer : well , seven to seven inches . marketing : so like that . project manager : user interface : marketing : that 's quite big . industrial designer : marketing : uh uh have we decided that we 're gon na use this t_f_t_ screen ? project manager : no , i do n't think it 's seven by seven , industrial designer : yeah but project manager : i think it 's seven the diagonal is seven . industrial designer : to be honest , i was project manager : usually when they say seven inch i think it 's the diagonal . user interface : yeah yes . marketing : but i mean even even that is like this big . project manager : yeah . i dunno i dun i dun one each user interface : project manager : . but , yeah , . industrial designer : yeah , honestly speaking i was thinking that it was seven centimetres initially , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but it 's seven inches . but i i think we can we can cut it . marketing : you can cut the t_f_t_ screen . project manager : let 's go . industrial designer : yeah , no no problem , user interface : industrial designer : because because because then the size of the graphic card will be one fourth . project manager : so let 's cut the t_f_t_ . industrial designer : so marketing : industrial designer : yeah , but no problem to to me to cut the screen . marketing : okay , so industrial designer : so so for the same price we have four screens now . marketing : okay . project manager : these technical engineers , huh . marketing : so , what 's the size of the device ? industrial designer : ah well this is like this is almost nothing . seven to seven to at least well some three millimetres or something . marketing : even from my perspective seven t seven centimetres by seven centimetres is still industrial designer : yeah , but we wanted the big buttons and stuff like that , you know . marketing : is it can you hold that , or ? industrial designer : because if it 's t too small we can we can lose it , at home , you know . project manager : what user wants . he wants a small remote control , or ? uh uh with big buttons . industrial designer : i thought that it it should fit in the hand or something . marketing : yeah , a small c control that they can hold in hand . project manager : it 's difficult . a sm industrial designer : marketing : but is something that 's seven centimetres square e easy to hold ? user interface : industrial designer : w i i think so . i if the roller buttons are on the side you do n't have to catch it like that , but just like this , and you know follow follow well , that 's that 's no task for me , but well seven to seven at least yeah , project manager : so maybe you can finish your presentation , user interface : project manager : and afterwards we will discuss about all this . industrial designer : but oh , okay . user interface : maybe this . marketing : okay . industrial designer : okay thanks . </s>
<s> what did the industrial designer think of solar cell when discussing energy problems ? </s> industrial designer : not j uh just a point to the energy th things . if we use the batteries , and the additional so solar cell , then it 's okay for l_ uh speech recognition and lcd , project manager : okay . industrial designer : so no problem in energy , i think . project manager : so okay . industrial designer : but we have to use the solar cell . user interface : so but project manager : uh like industrial designer : otherwise not . project manager : but using how many batteries , for example ? are are what maybe what is the size of the battery industrial designer : yeah i was thinking just common a_a_ cells . project manager : okay . uh one two industrial designer : so like three to five centimetres , project manager : okay . industrial designer : i dunno exactly , but . marketing : so if we use s solar cells , um where is the sun if someone 's watching tv inside ? industrial designer : s uh d does n't need to be sun . it it 's just the daylight , you know . marketing : okay . project manager : the television lights . industrial designer : yeah well i i suppose that i suppose that uh that this remote control wo n't be in the in the room like this , where there is light only when when there are people , but . user interface : marketing : project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : at least when there is tv you can get light from the tv . industrial designer : yeah from the t_ user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i do n't think it 's enough , uh . project manager : i dunno . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . mm . industrial designer : ah it 's a it 's a compromise , no ? marketing : project manager : at least it 's new and maybe technology new technology . industrial designer : yeah , that 's why i wanted to to include the speech recognition , because you wanted all the new things . marketing : it 's it 's quite innovative , yes . project manager : yeah . marketing : and if you watch tv outside it 's very useful . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the size and shape of the remote control . </s> project manager : so i think before talking about the other thing , it 's important thing it 's the case . industrial designer : project manager : uh what what are gon na be the size , because its weight drives the other what we are going to use as features and so on . for example for the for the lcd , if we choose to have a small device , we can not use this um a such a a a screen . industrial designer : uh the s the screen is okay , but the board , uh that 's the problem . well what what would you guess as a shape ? or what what would be the shape ? user interface : mm . i think i think their being uh large or small is not important . the only important thing is to be able to take it in uh inside hand easily . so let 's say an average size , okay , and it should not be very heavy also . and i prefer to is it should n't have a uniform shape , so in the middle it should be a little bit thinner , maybe maybe . so we c it 's like like some joysticks . you can take uh some some joystick you can take inside hand easier because it 's it 's designed for your f uh taking into account your finger shape and your palm shape . so the general shape should be like this . i think uh seven centimetre by seven centimetre is a little bit large . so uh seven not seven but let 's say five by ten it 's i think it 's that 's my opinion . it 's easier . industrial designer : okay . marketing : which is the same area . industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : could you re could you redesign your board ? industrial designer : five to ten . well that marketing : oh , five five centimetres by ten centimetres . industrial designer : yeah , right . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i think it 's feasib well one um um how could we do it ? we could put the board next to , well , under the lcd and for example make the lcd be totally unrelated to the thing that you hold in your hand . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like holding something , and the lcd to be just on top of it , you know somehow . well but maybe let 's stick to the s spongy thing , like one unit . project manager : oh . i 've i s i think the easiest thing would be to to have a smaller lcd , if it 's possible . industrial designer : well fi five to ten it would be feasible . okay , so five to ten , i i think it 's it 's feasible . project manager : okay . so we are agree with a small industrial designer : i 'll make it . user interface : or uh or i do n't know project manager : lcd . industrial designer : fo five by ten . user interface : but i do n't want to now invent something new , because we did n't discuss about it . so using some lcds we can touch , so we can remove uh keys and just uh having uh , i dunno the name , lcd responding to fingers . project manager : yeah . user interface : touching the screen . something like project manager : tactile or something , yeah . user interface : mm like tactile . marketing : mm , touch screen . project manager : touch screen , yeah . user interface : so but for now if we do n't want to use such kind of screens i i think we using a a smaller screen is better , project manager : yeah . user interface : because project manager : the problem is we have a limit in a month of time , so we can not do something very new . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : project manager : so let 's go for a small lcd . marketing : so industrial designer : okay , so yeah , so so just just give me the the the five by ten numbers that you find the best and send it me user interface : a smaller s project manager : yeah okay . user interface : okay . project manager : so , five by s ten . industrial designer : and i will work it out . project manager : um so what about , so the case we talked about . um something easy to use , you said something easy to use but how does that fit in a fashion way , like with fruit and vegetable , and about the colour and logo of the of the company and so on , now , can we do that ? my first idea is because our colour is more yellow , and the it should be easy to take in a hand , i thought about banana , or something like that , which is fruits , and industrial designer : seven to ten banana . project manager : a big banana . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : okay . rather mango or something or . project manager : um . marketing : well it 's it 's definitely the obvious choice , with the colour of our company . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : i mean what other what other fruit and vegetables project manager : but it 's just an idea . i dunno what you think about , but marketing : do you know of any any other fruit and vegetables that are yellow ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : i dunno if it can fit with the technology . you are the specialists of that . industrial designer : you mean banana . project manager : industrial designer : well , but if it 's if it if the banana is big enough . project manager : so marketing : user interface : industrial designer : then , yes . but if you want to look at the screen , no . well user interface : project manager : yeah , and industrial designer : user interface : i think this is not good . project manager : the screen has to be square ? or it can be like a a shape , quite , uh with curves . industrial designer : well , it can be whatever you want . project manager : it could . industrial designer : but if it 's square then we get four screens out of one by cutting just . but if you want some shape then we can only get like two screens out of seven to seven inches , so . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it 's like more more expensive to have shape like that . but i do n't care . you know , if we fit this requirement . marketing : well i 'd like a shaped screen . i think that 's more important than saving a bit of money on on the t_f_t_ screen . industrial designer : okay project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , m maybe the banana could be like a bit uh fatter than than the c c common one . project manager : yeah . yeah , it should remember banana , but it 's not does n't have to b to be uh uh really the size and exactly the shape of a banana . industrial designer : but user interface : industrial designer : like modified banana , okay . project manager : so we are agree with the banana thing ? industrial designer : well it we 'll stick to banana , or ? user interface : okay . marketing : yeah , banana 's good . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the first layer when talking about detailed shape design . </s> project manager : so , the last point we decided it 's infra-red , i guess . user interface : yeah , i think infra-red . project manager : everybody 's agreed . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . sure . project manager : uh , so that 's it i think about the concepts . you have other thing to add to this point , or uh no ? so , uh about the user interface , so we are going to use lcd . in the last meeting we talked about uh hidden buttons . i do n't know what we are going to do with that . you talked about the buttons on the side industrial designer : like like peeling of the banana you s user interface : yeah , peeling of the banana . project manager : mm what ? industrial designer : it would be cool , yeah . user interface : industrial designer : peeling of the banana , you know , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : should should discover the other buttons , which are hidden . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : okay . and you mean the first layer would be spongy . user interface : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : first layer obviously spo yeah , project manager : so industrial designer : w it 's it 's like silly , but the people will really appreciate it , yeah i think . project manager : is it is it possible to do that ? it would be a great idea , but is it possible technically ? user interface : uh project manager : like doing a spongy layer of the banana , and you open it . marketing : i think if we if we have a spongy layer on the outside of the banana then it 's easy to make that , project manager : yeah . marketing : you know , to manipulate that to hav be a cover that you can pull off and user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah , some something like a plastic cover covering uh some interface , u_s_b_ interface as in the in uh digital camera . if you see it 's like peeling . you open a plastic cover and you see some u_s_b_ interfaces , some some interfaces for adaptor . so keys can be uh buttons can be covered like this , with a plastic cover and uh when uh and when you open this cover it 's like peeling a banana . so , something like this . project manager : yeah , but do you see that as a rigid thing , or like like a banana , something very soft , you can open like banana , or . industrial designer : well is it possible to make it soft ? user interface : yeah , yeah , yeah it 's a lic like a plastic cover , so . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i think if it 's so then it 's cool ? project manager : so , i dunno what you think , bob , but it would be great for users i think , and very good for marketing . marketing : i think for sure . definitely . the softer the better . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : cool . user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : honestly speaking , i can not imagine it , so far , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but it will be terrible . user interface : project manager : um . and setting buttons hidden in . mm , other remarks , or something , or . something we did n't talk about yes yet , or . i think we are almost there . uh maybe , how can we , if we have a soft thing , like this , and to open it we have to attach it somewhere , i dunno how to do that technically , or . industrial designer : project manager : and how user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : we could use velcro . project manager : yeah , maybe . marketing : or uh ma maybe a magnetic user interface : yes , yeah it 's a good idea . marketing : thing . project manager : ma magnetic oh . user interface : magnetic . mm . yeah or a yeah it can is it can be a plastic cover uh sticking to the to the all the stuff like uh with magnetic p uh magnetic uh magnetic uh materials in the border , so it 's it sticks like refrigerator door , completely . project manager : okay . user interface : and when you try to open it , it will be opened easily . so you you can be sure that it will not be open while you 're uh while while uh you are commonly using uh buttons on the banana . project manager : okay . and what would be the matter here of the first layer i mean ? mm . likes . soft plastic , or marketing : yeah , i imagine some sort of vinyl thing . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : so uh good morning . user interface : morning . marketing : morning . project manager : i see you all find your places . industrial designer : morning . project manager : is everybody sitting on the right place ? yeah ? i guess so . so let 's see . first i will introduce myself . i do n't know if uh if everybody knows me , so i 'm bart , marketing : my name 's frank . project manager : hello . hello . user interface : i 'm . project manager : bart . hello . hello . bart . welcome . marketing : thank you . project manager : uh let 's see . uh let 's start off um with a little presentation . uh now first i 'll tell you a little bit about the setting . you can see there are a few cameras here . they 'll record uh our actions and you 'll have wires and microphones that will record your voice . uh there are also some microphones there but th um you do n't have to pay a lot of attention on those , because it will uh disappear when you do n't attend to it . so is there a project documents folder ? there are some notes in it already i see , some documents . uh i 'll start with the presentation kick off . is being modified by the administrator . uh okay . user interface : marketing : hmm , that 's interesting . project manager : let 's do it read only . well i do n't know if you 've noticed , but uh we 're working for real reaction . uh it 's a company in uh electronics . we put fashion in electronics , uh we make it work , uh we put a lot of effort in design and in the product itself . i 'm bart the project manager so i 'll direct you through the project . this is our agenda . uh we have our opening acquaintance , tool training , project plan description closing . marketing : project manager : uh maybe i can sit down , then i can take some notes or let 's see . maybe you can take the minutes once in a while . marketing : sure . project manager : i dunno it 's not a lot of work , but just uh if you hear something uh you can write down , just write it down . uh as you can see uh it 's the opening , aquaintance tool training . aquaintance is a point we 've done a bit . um have you all seen the corporate website already ? yeah . marketing : yep . visit it . project manager : have you seen any flaws in it ? i think i found one . no ? marketing : ca n't say i paid much attention to it , project manager : i can see if it works this way . no , it does n't work here . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : okay no problem . but um on the corporate information side there 's a th uh there was real remote instead of real reaction . marketing : oh yeah . project manager : real remote is not really the company we 're we are , but it 's just a little fault . user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : um okay , what are we going to do ? uh our project aim is as you can see a new remote control . it has to be original , trendy , and user friendly . so these are uh the points why uh we also hired you . we 've got the marketing expert for uh the trendy and user friendly look . marketing : okay . project manager : and industrial designer uh there 's also user friendly and a bit original . and we 've got our user interface designer . he 's also uh that 's about the new remote control . uh project method um is uh there are three phases we are going through . first is functional des uh design , individual work , meetings . after the functional design , then the conceptual design and the detailed design . i had some role indications on here . but i think you know it already by yourself . the industrial designer is going to work on the working design , uh components design and a bit of the look and feel design . uh the user interface designer is going to do the technical function design , user interface concept and user interface design . and the marketing expert is doing a little bit of user requirement specification , trend watching and project uh product ev evaluation . so that 's a bit what you 're going to do . but that will be all worked out in uh other meetings . marketing : project manager : then we 've got our first tool training . we are going to work with a lot of high-tech tools here , so it 's ab it 's handy if we have a little bit of training first . as you can see we 've got the smart boards here and here in the white board . um in the white board here there 's a little tool bar on this side . here are some functions . you can save . n uh these functions we do n't have anything to do with , only undo , you can undo a little uh piece of drawing . a blank new document for each person . uh select a pen , eraser . capture we do n't have to do anything with . uh then we 've got our pen . this pen . it 's really funny because you can draw with it on this page um in the think it is form of . marketing : 'kay . project manager : you can also select the current colour and the line width . but then first you have to select the pen function . but we 're going to work with it in a minute . so okay . uh that 's very simple and it 's easy to uh draw your findings and drawings on there . uh then a short thing about documents . we 've got our shared folder , project project what was it ? project documents i think . but all you will found that already because there are a lot of documents in it already , so it will be okay . and these are available on the smart boards as well , so if you have a document you wan na show , just open it from the folder . user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : here is a simple tool bar . it 's what i just said , it 's save , print , move back or forward one page . you can switch between the different drawings . and then we 're going to try out the white board . industrial designer : project manager : so as you can see we g all going to draw a animal . just to uh uh just to get a bit familiar with it . user interface : project manager : mouse was n't running away . marketing : user interface : marketing : that was interesting . project manager : is everybody is anybody playing with the mouse ? no . marketing : innocent . project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : we 're going to uh draw animal . and uh just sum up a few of its favourite characteristics . marketing : project manager : um the only thing we have to uh look after is that we use different colours , and different line width . marketing : project manager : uh there 's i can start from now . i will . you can use this pen by holding it like a like a little child . because if you hold it like this , the sensors will get blocked and then the drawing wo n't get good . user interface : okay . marketing : 'kay . project manager : another thing is you have to be uh a bit slow . 'cause if you 're going to draw like really fast then um the pen wo n't hold up . so we choose form of current colour uh i think grey is appropriate . then the line width . i think seven will be nice . now you 'll see my drawing capabilities . user interface : project manager : these are not very much , but uh uh , see you have to do it real slow . oh industrial designer : project manager : user interface : marketing : user interface : sure . project manager : ah i was trying to draw a dolphin , user interface : project manager : but i think his nose has to be a little bit marketing : user interface : project manager : but it 's close . marketing : i 'm thinking about a swordfish . project manager : so what yeah it 's this is bit of the swordfish . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : project manager : yeah , he has n't got an eye . user interface : industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : woah . now we 've got another function . we 've got the eraser . marketing : . project manager : and then you can undo this easily . marketing : meat . project manager : ah it 's okay . user interface : project manager : and i 've got to write down a few of its characteristics . uh is they 've got no text tool , no . uh . okay . user interface : marketing : project manager : this is typically a undo action , i think . marketing : yeah . project manager : pen . maybe you have to hold it a bit upside-down . i think that 's it because if you wan ar are going to do it like this then it will be a stripe . but i do n't know , i 'm just trying . this is not my work , industrial designer : marketing : project manager : okay . maybe you have to use oh . marketing : project manager : uh . i think it 's a it wants to draw a another animal ? i do n't know . it lives for the fun . so it 's my characteristic uh characteristic about the dolphin . it lives for the fun . so now i 'm gon na hand over the pen on the new blank sheet to you . user interface : okay . marketing : okay . user interface : project manager : go ahead . marketing : thank you . okay . gon na use a different line width . and i 'm gon na draw in black . there . 'kay , i 'm not much of an artist , but here we go . project manager : maybe it 's easier to draw the smaller line width , i think . because this is going a lot better than uh i did . industrial designer : user interface : a sheep . industrial designer : marketing : okay . user interface : project manager : marketing : this is my um hmm . sheep . project manager : it 's nice . marketing : with of course project manager : uh . marketing : little blue dot they always get sprayed on their butts . project manager : it 's a real dead sheep , user interface : marketing : there . project manager : yeah . for recognition , marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , i see . um maybe you can also write your name somewhere . marketing : 'kay . project manager : on just a marketing : they are project manager : marketing : come on . you have to go really slow when you 're writing . project manager : yeah . marketing : they 're brilliant animal animals . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : and that 's just a little me thingy . so . guess i 'll pass the pen to our user interface designer . project manager : nice . user interface : okay . um i 'm just gon na draw its uh head , but mm let 's see . mm . uh . okay . project manager : sweet . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : interesting . user interface : you know what that is ? or who ? industrial designer : garfield . marketing : a rabbit ? user interface : ah okay , yeah . marketing : garfield . yeah . user interface : just a mm . guess . so uh yeah . that 's enough . um , you say a blank , project manager : yeah , just a blank sheet . user interface : or okay . industrial designer : well i was gon na draw a cat too , so . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : i 'll just try something else . project manager : no . industrial designer : something different than garfield . user interface : industrial designer : mine is a bit more skinny . project manager : yeah , it 's pretty skinny cat . user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but uh marketing : and the most interesting tail . project manager : is your cat , or did you find him on the street ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : well , it 's supposed to be a cat . i like cats because uh they are uh independent . project manager : ah . industrial designer : the pen . so . project manager : okay . that 's pretty clear . so everybody knows how to work with the white board now ? so if you have any ideas or if you wan na draw anything on the white board , just ask marketing : yeah . industrial designer : the pen . project manager : and go ahead . it 's pretty uh easy . marketing : project manager : 'kay . user interface : project manager : s marketing : we 're being haunted . project manager : haunted white board . so we 've got the tool uh introduction . we move along to the project finance . marketing : project manager : um as you can see , we um for our remote control , a selling price is uh twenty five euros . our selling price . uh our profit aim is fifty million euros . uh that 's the least we have to get from our remote controls , so we have to work together to reach our aims . uh we can do it international , so we have to focus on different kind of users , different kind of cultures , and different kind of trends as well . um but that 's all in the later stadium . our production cost um can be maximal twelve and a half euros , so that 's also a point we have to keep in mind , that we wo n't make remote controls with small televisions inside , and stuff like that . it wo n't work . so just try to remember these points . selling price twenty five , profit aims fifty million um , but more important is the int international market we 're trying to focus on . and production cost uh maximal twelve and a half euros . so that 's leads us to our little discussion . we 've got about five or ten minutes left for discussion . so i 'm gon na sit down , i think . it 's easier . marketing : yeah , you got a message . project manager : i 've got a message . five minutes . okay , user interface : five minutes , okay . project manager : that 's uh good timing . marketing : so just on a side note , why is it my laptop is only giving me a black screen ? project manager : uh maybe you have to say the magic word . user interface : marketing : yeah . right . project manager : does it do anything ? maybe you have to just clap it down ? mm back up again . no slide show . hmm . marketing : it 's off now . project manager : it 's off . now you have to put it back o oh yeah . you 'll be okay , i think . marketing : well , it was on , but project manager : well it 's those laptops . marketing : ah , there we are . project manager : nice . okay . but so mm does everybody has um experiences with uh remote controls , and i mean not the ordinary mote controls , but also a little bit different ones ? like you can use for other ? marketing : user interface : mm . oh really ? project manager : you ? user interface : it 's a industrial designer : no , me neither . marketing : well , we have a kind of broad tv at home , and a d_v_d_ player , so we got like a lot of remote controls , one for the tv , one for the video recorder , one for the d_v_d_ player . project manager : ah yeah . marketing : and i think it 's it would be best to just make one remote control that can operate them all . project manager : yep . yeah user interface : sure . yeah . project manager : i 've i 've got one at home . and you can uh program i think eight different devices in it , and you can use it for your television , anything else . user interface : okay , yeah . yeah . project manager : and it also operates on infra-red , so you have to got the little device inside your room , and then you can operate it from the third or th or second floor . user interface : okay , yeah . project manager : so that 's pretty handy when you have a video recorder or d_v_d_ player downstairs and you 've got a link to your tv on the second floor . so that 's a pretty handy um marketing : really . user interface : hmm . oh . mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : thing . um but only the i think that if you can put different kind of devices in one remote control , it makes it a lot easier as well . it 's uh marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's good to remember . marketing : so i think you can take minutes again . project manager : yeah , that 's nice , i think . marketing : since it 's your job . project manager : so we 've we want different functions marketing : yeah . project manager : uh and we can maybe see if we can do something with the infra-red . but i do n't know if that will exceed the production costs . so that uh that 's something we have to find out , i think . marketing : yeah . but that would be really good if we could do that . project manager : and other functions for a remote control ? maybe we can make it uh uh user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : um . think it has to be shock proof user interface : sure , yeah . marketing : 'cause project manager : shock proof . marketing : my remote control tends to fall a lot . user interface : waterproof , or uh project manager : sure . user interface : uh , you never no know uh , marketing : so user interface : i w i mean uh project manager : waterproof . okay . so these are our um a few things we can think of . um i will put the minutes from this meeting uh in our project folder . user interface : 'kay . marketing : yeah , one other little thing . thought it might be handy to put a battery status display on it . project manager : that 's a marketing : so you can see project manager : battery stays . user interface : okay , yeah . marketing : how much is left in the battery . but they 'll also really drag up the production costs , so think we 'll have to see about that too . project manager : yeah . marketing : but maybe just a little led , i do n't know . project manager : that 's an idea as well . other ideas ? quick ideas . industrial designer : nope . they were all mentioned , project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so project manager : any questions about this uh presentation ? kick off presentation . marketing : um . nope , do n't think so . project manager : okay , then i 'll put the minutes from this meeting in the project folder , and then we can all work . finish meeting now . okay . marketing : okay . project manager : and we can all work uh on our own projects . marketing : aye sir . project manager : okay then i 'll meet you in about a half an hour , i think . marketing : half an hour . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so good luck . user interface : okay . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about remote control use cases ? </s> project manager : nice . okay . but so mm does everybody has um experiences with uh remote controls , and i mean not the ordinary mote controls , but also a little bit different ones ? like you can use for other ? marketing : user interface : mm . oh really ? project manager : you ? user interface : it 's a industrial designer : no , me neither . marketing : well , we have a kind of broad tv at home , and a d_v_d_ player , so we got like a lot of remote controls , one for the tv , one for the video recorder , one for the d_v_d_ player . project manager : ah yeah . marketing : and i think it 's it would be best to just make one remote control that can operate them all . project manager : yep . yeah user interface : sure . yeah . project manager : i 've i 've got one at home . and you can uh program i think eight different devices in it , and you can use it for your television , anything else . user interface : okay , yeah . yeah . project manager : and it also operates on infra-red , so you have to got the little device inside your room , and then you can operate it from the third or th or second floor . user interface : okay , yeah . project manager : so that 's pretty handy when you have a video recorder or d_v_d_ player downstairs and you 've got a link to your tv on the second floor . so that 's a pretty handy um marketing : really . user interface : hmm . oh . mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : thing . um but only the i think that if you can put different kind of devices in one remote control , it makes it a lot easier as well . it 's uh marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's good to remember . marketing : so i think you can take minutes again . project manager : yeah , that 's nice , i think . marketing : since it 's your job . project manager : so we 've we want different functions marketing : yeah . project manager : uh and we can maybe see if we can do something with the infra-red . but i do n't know if that will exceed the production costs . so that uh that 's something we have to find out , i think . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the feasibility of the multipurpose remote control mentioned by marketing ? </s> project manager : i 've i 've got one at home . and you can uh program i think eight different devices in it , and you can use it for your television , anything else . user interface : okay , yeah . yeah . project manager : and it also operates on infra-red , so you have to got the little device inside your room , and then you can operate it from the third or th or second floor . user interface : okay , yeah . project manager : so that 's pretty handy when you have a video recorder or d_v_d_ player downstairs and you 've got a link to your tv on the second floor . so that 's a pretty handy um marketing : really . user interface : hmm . oh . mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : thing . um but only the i think that if you can put different kind of devices in one remote control , it makes it a lot easier as well . it 's uh marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's good to remember . marketing : so i think you can take minutes again . project manager : yeah , that 's nice , i think . marketing : since it 's your job . project manager : so we 've we want different functions </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about functions for the remote control other than the multipurpose function ? </s> project manager : uh and we can maybe see if we can do something with the infra-red . but i do n't know if that will exceed the production costs . so that uh that 's something we have to find out , i think . marketing : yeah . but that would be really good if we could do that . project manager : and other functions for a remote control ? maybe we can make it uh uh user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : um . think it has to be shock proof user interface : sure , yeah . marketing : 'cause project manager : shock proof . marketing : my remote control tends to fall a lot . user interface : waterproof , or uh project manager : sure . user interface : uh , you never no know uh , marketing : so user interface : i w i mean uh project manager : waterproof . okay . so these are our um a few things we can think of . um i will put the minutes from this meeting uh in our project folder . user interface : 'kay . marketing : yeah , one other little thing . thought it might be handy to put a battery status display on it . project manager : that 's a marketing : so you can see project manager : battery stays . user interface : okay , yeah . marketing : how much is left in the battery . but they 'll also really drag up the production costs , so think we 'll have to see about that too . project manager : yeah . marketing : but maybe just a little led , i do n't know . project manager : that 's an idea as well . other ideas ? quick ideas . industrial designer : nope . they were all mentioned , project manager : okay . </s>
<s> what attitude did project manager hold towards potential cost pressure with regard to infra-red ? </s> project manager : uh and we can maybe see if we can do something with the infra-red . but i do n't know if that will exceed the production costs . so that uh that 's something we have to find out , i think . marketing : yeah . but that would be really good if we could do that . project manager : and other functions for a remote control ? maybe we can make it uh uh user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : um . think it has to be shock proof user interface : sure , yeah . marketing : 'cause project manager : shock proof . marketing : my remote control tends to fall a lot . user interface : waterproof , or uh project manager : sure . user interface : uh , you never no know uh , marketing : so user interface : i w i mean uh project manager : waterproof . okay . so these are our um a few things we can think of . um i will put the minutes from this meeting uh in our project folder . user interface : 'kay . marketing : yeah , one other little thing . thought it might be handy to put a battery status display on it . project manager : that 's a marketing : so you can see project manager : battery stays . user interface : okay , yeah . marketing : how much is left in the battery . but they 'll also really drag up the production costs , so think we 'll have to see about that too . project manager : yeah . </s>
<s> what did marketing think of potential cost pressure incurred by the application of battery status display ? </s> marketing : yeah , one other little thing . thought it might be handy to put a battery status display on it . project manager : that 's a marketing : so you can see project manager : battery stays . user interface : okay , yeah . marketing : how much is left in the battery . but they 'll also really drag up the production costs , so think we 'll have to see about that too . project manager : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about financial aims and target markets of the new remote control project . </s> marketing : project manager : um as you can see , we um for our remote control , a selling price is uh twenty five euros . our selling price . uh our profit aim is fifty million euros . uh that 's the least we have to get from our remote controls , so we have to work together to reach our aims . uh we can do it international , so we have to focus on different kind of users , different kind of cultures , and different kind of trends as well . um but that 's all in the later stadium . our production cost um can be maximal twelve and a half euros , so that 's also a point we have to keep in mind , that we wo n't make remote controls with small televisions inside , and stuff like that . it wo n't work . so just try to remember these points . selling price twenty five , profit aims fifty million um , but more important is the int international market we 're trying to focus on . and production cost uh maximal twelve and a half euros . so that 's leads us to our little discussion . we 've got about five or ten minutes left for discussion . so i 'm gon na sit down , i think . it 's easier . marketing : yeah , you got a message . project manager : i 've got a message . five minutes . okay , user interface : five minutes , okay . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : okay . good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee . we 've received apologies for absence from suzy davies and jack sargeant and i 'm very pleased to welcome jayne bryant back , who is substituting for jack today . are there any declarations of interest from members , please ? no . okay , thank you . item 2 , then , this morning , is our sixth scrutiny session on the children ( abolition of defence of reasonable punishment ) ( wales ) bill . i 'm very pleased to welcome our witnesses this morning : sally jenkins , who is chair of all wales heads of children ’ s services and is here representing the association of directors of social services ; alastair birch , who is senior system leader for equalities and safeguarding at pembrokeshire county council , who is here representing the association of directors of education wales ; and councillor huw david , who is the welsh local government association spokesperson for health and social care and leader of bridgend county borough council . so , thank you all for attending this morning . we 're very pleased to have you here . we 've got a lot of ground to cover , so , if you 're happy , we 'll go straight into questions and i 'll start just by asking about your general support for the bill , which is outlined in the evidence . can you just explain why you think the current law is ineffective or unclear ? alastair birch : bore da—bore da , bawb . so , i 'm alastair birch . the statement , really , from adew is that the rights of the child should be educated and achieved , really , under the united nations convention on the rights of the child . the current legislation has been criticised , obviously , by the un concerning the defence of reasonable punishment still being within our current legislation . so , we will always—adew will always—advocate that the rights of the child be upheld , so that is really the fundamental aspect in terms of the statement from adew , and the position of adew is that the rights of the child are fundamental in this process . and there are certain articles— . i know that the rights of children and young persons ( wales ) measure 2011 made sure that article 3 and article 4 , article 12 and article 37 were a focus in terms of making sure that the best interests of the child were put first , that children expressing their views and opinions was a priority . and we know , for safeguarding purposes , that the express opinions of the child and the voice of the child are a fundamental aspect of any safe environment , whether it be a school or college . so , that is—the position is really following that legal position under the rights of children and young persons ( wales ) measure . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . nothing to add at this stage , no ? sally jenkins : i 'll just add , on behalf of adss and on behalf of children 's services and social services more widely , for us , this is not a change in our position , this is not new ; this is a position that we , on behalf of the leaders of social services across wales , have taken over many years , going back 20 , 25 years . i think what we would say is that we really welcome this bill and we welcome the proposed change for the clarity it would bring—the clarity that it would bring for children , for parents and for professionals . i think what we would recognise is that this is a very little-used piece of legislation , so it 's rare , it 's not as if this is something that is going to cast great change across the scene for children and families in wales , but what it will do is represent a change in the reality of how we care and nurture our children . i would echo absolutely what alastair has said in terms of the rights of the child , but equally , in terms of all of our policies in wales in terms of promoting well-being for children , this has to be key . so , for us , this is about a natural progression of change in how we care for our children in wales . for children 's services at the very sharp end of this world , for us , it brings a true clarity . this continues with an ambiguity in how we treat our children and how we care for our children , and the shift for us brings that very much needed clarity . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . the committee has already heard different views about whether there 's clear evidence that physical punishment is harmful to children . what evidence does the work of social services provide about whether physical punishment is actually harmful ? sally jenkins : obviously , what you 'll all be aware of is that , as part of the consultation for this bill , the public policy institute did a further piece of research to look at the impact of physical punishment on children . a number of things that we know—we know from across the world that the evidence is that introducing legislation or changing legislation in this way improves children 's positions within their families . what we know is that children themselves , as alastair has already referred to , really find physical punishment demeaning and harmful , and for children it is an emotionally damaging experience . now , there may be disagreement about that , there will be different views on that , but that 's the voice of the child in this debate . the voice of the child is very clear that physical punishment is for them harmful . i think what we would also say is that , in the world that we work in , it 's part of a continuum , and , whilst this is an element of how children are cared for , what we see is a continuum where an acceptance of how we treat children in a particular way perpetuates throughout our work . by changing this , it helps that shift to that absolute recognition that our children must be cared for in a way that is physically safe in all dimensions for them . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've had evidence from the equal protection network that the reasonable punishment defence undermines child protection and fails to protect children because it permits an arbitrary level of violence , which invades children 's physical integrity , making it a potential pathway to more serious physical or sexual abuse , and you did refer to that just now . is there anything you want to add on that ? sally jenkins : i would echo that . i think there is something in this that is about our culture , about how we see our children . it is about how we see our smallest and most vulnerable people , and if it is acceptable it opens the door to those other , more extreme versions of violence , which then complicates the issue for us . this is about clarity , and , whilst there is an argument that this is a small episode for a child , it 's not a small episode for a child , it is a major episode for a child , and i think absolutely , as you said , the potential for it then to lead on , and over gradation and time to increase the risk for children , is clearly there . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . the final question from me : your written evidence emphasises the need for greater clarity around the definition of what constitutes corporal punishment , but that contrasts with what we 've been told by the children 's commissioner and the equal protection network , who 've emphasised the importance of simplicity in the bill . how do you respond to that view , and is what you 're calling for essential to be on the face of the bill ? sally jenkins : it 's not essential for it to be on the face of the bill . what we would like to see is discussion within the implementation phase for that nuancing . absolutely agree in terms of simplicity—i think that is really important—and i 've already mentioned clarity . what we do n't want to do is further confuse the position . we know that the legislation in different countries has done that , and there are ways that you can do it , but what we would welcome is an opportunity during the implementation phase for discussion . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . huw david : and , as a principle , obviously we would welcome full involvement , and we know there 's the commitment from welsh government to full involvement in the implementation , because , as with every piece of legislation , implementation is the most important part , and we would want to ensure there is that commitment to a major awareness-raising campaign , and there is that from welsh government , because we need to take families , carers and parents with us on this . also we need to ensure that there is that support available to parents and carers that do sometimes struggle with parenting , and that needs to be a universal offer across wales . if we 're to progress with this , that has to be an option that is offered to every parent in wales . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . sally jenkins : local authorities have already been very heavily involved in terms of looking at this bill and exploring what the issues are and the discussions and looking at what the implications from a local authority perspective will be , as huw describes , both in terms of the awareness raising , early support and intervention and prevention services for families against the backdrop of the current issues that we have in local government , but also awareness raising—because absolutely it is key that families come with us on this journey . this is not an imposition . this is embracing a culture and a value system for our children . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . i 've got some questions now from dawn bowden on the implementation of the bill . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . so , you 've pre-empted me , huw . huw david : right . sorry . i 've got good eyesight ; i ca n't see— . [ laughter . ] dawn bowden am : you 've already said , obviously , that you 're looking towards working with welsh government in terms of its implementation . what 's been your role so far in terms of the implementation of the bill—local authorities generally , now ? have you had a role ? has welsh government been involving you in discussions around the introduction of the bill so far ? huw david : yes . so , obviously we were consulted—a key consultee—but also our officials have worked very closely with welsh government officials to make sure this is implemented successfully , if it is progressed . sally jenkins : our involvement with this , from a social services perspective , goes back over two years , directly in working towards this point , never mind the history in terms of work towards this area . but , very directly in relation to this bill , we were first involved at least two years ago , to recollect , and that was in a series of workshops with other agencies , for example children and family court advisory and support service cymru and the police , and looking in real depth at what the implications would be for us as agencies to look at what the likely trajectory would be in terms of our pathways for referral into our services and what that might mean for us . and then particularly , for example , with cafcass cymru in relation to private law , what the fallout might be , and then what , if anything—and that 's the discussion that we need to have—that could mean for children 's services in particular , given the pressures that we 're already under . so , we 've been in constant , i suppose , involvement in terms of the bill already , as part of the consultation , in terms of the focus groups and in terms of direct work with welsh government officials to take this forward . and we are absolutely committed to continuing with that work . dawn bowden am : okay . you touched there on the pressures that you 're already under , which we fully appreciate , but you also mentioned in answers to lynne neagle earlier on that you welcomed the bill in terms of its clarity . so , are you confident that the bill can be implemented without any major impact on your capacity to deal with it ? sally jenkins : we 've done— . a number of local authorities—my own included , newport city council , has done some work to look at what the likely impact would be and then actually to look at what some of that costing would need to be . further work is needed on that area , and that needs to be carried out during the implementation phase . i think what we 've done is we 've looked internationally at what the impact has been elsewhere when similar legislation has been introduced to try and gauge , but that 's difficult to do in terms of comparable nations and size and also different systems . and obviously our approach in terms of children and pedagogy is very different from some of the nations that have already done this . i would n't like to say one way or the other , because i think , in terms of that culture shift , it could be a double impact on us in terms of increased referrals because of increased awareness , but it could also be , i suppose , as huw alludes to , that , if we 're looking at ensuring greater awareness of preventative services and support services for parents , actually people coming to the fore and asking us for those services as well . so , at this stage , i think what we would want to say is that we continue to be fully involved in the implementation phase , to look at what the cost implications for that could be , and not just for the local authorities but also the police , cafcass cymru , for third sector organisations involved in preventative services . i do n't think any of that should undermine the position in terms of children and their rights within our society . so , a difficult answer , in the sense that— dawn bowden am : no , i understand . what you 're saying is that this is a piece of legislation that , in your view , is a good piece of legislation . it 's setting out to , hopefully , achieve what the purpose of it is and you will deliver what you need to . can i ask you whether , then , you 've also given thought to the impact on—we 've talked about social services , but the impact on other services , like housing , education and so on ? you 're obviously coming at it from slightly different angles in other sections . alastair birch : we are part of the universal service for children , and we very much work in co-operation with the wlga and our social care colleagues , and we 've been part of that consultation . in terms of education , the main changes , or adaptations , would be around training and awareness . and , in terms of the bill , there needs to be the clarity—ambiguity would be bad—in terms of making sure that safeguarding leads within all schools have the right training and support . so , really , that 's the key element there , and then obviously the preventative services for the parents that schools can signpost , and sometimes possibly even host , in terms of being community schools . these positive parenting approaches that— . i have colleagues who have worked in that area for many years and see the benefits in how those positive parenting approaches make a difference to families . dawn bowden am : so , from your point of view , it 's awareness raising , is it ? alastair birch : it 's awareness raising ; it 's making sure that professionals are fully briefed on necessary changes , that there 's very little ambiguity , that we are aware that— . we still have that duty to report whenever there is any safeguarding concern . that 'll still be part of the all-wales child protection procedures . that wo n't change , and that duty is always going to be there for all our professionals . but that awareness raising and training will be the key , and then , obviously , working in co-operation with our colleagues . dawn bowden am : okay , i understand that . have you been given an indication of how long you 've got between royal assent and implementation , and whether you 've thought through any of the key milestones that need to be implemented ? sally jenkins : there 's a group proposed that would be a strategic leadership group in the steering group that we 're part of , which is now laying out what would happen after royal assent if that is given . so , we will work towards that . dawn bowden am : okay . my final question , chair , is about some of the responses we 've had to this committee that say that the state should not get involved in family life—i 'm sure you 've heard those views—unless it 's in the most serious circumstances . to what extent do you think that this bill undermines the existing local authority responsibilities , or do n't you ? huw david : the state 's paramount role is to protect children from harm . that is our legal responsibility , it 's our moral responsibility , and we will discharge that . and there is obviously a view—it 's a view that is enshrined in the un convention on the rights of the child—that physical punishment , physical harm to a child is harm to a child , and we should be preventing that and act to prevent that . that would be the position of the welsh local government association , and we also respect the mandate that members of the national assembly for wales have too . and we believe that children can be raised by parents without recourse to physical punishment , effectively , and we 'd support parents in that . we do not believe that in the 50 nations across the world where such legislation exists that the state is interfering in family life unnecessarily . we believe this action reflects a cultural change , a sea change that 's taken place in wales over the last 30 to 40 years , where the vast majority of parents now say that they do not use it themselves , they do not support it , and we believe this is actually a reflection of what has happened in welsh society . we support assembly members in the view that the natural progression of that is that children 's rights are protected across wales . dawn bowden am : so , i 've got largely positive feedback from you in terms of the bill and its intentions , and so on . do you foresee any unintended consequences for this bill ? huw david : if we implement it carefully , if we implement it with the right resources , then i hope not . i think not . but as with every piece of legislation , it is about the implementation , it is about the cultural change as well , and that 's why i can not overstress the importance of making sure that resources are made available , because our social services departments—children 's social services in particular—are overstretched . they are at breaking point—make no bones about it—and they are dealing with children who are facing serious harm and neglect . we are having record numbers of contacts from police , from teachers , from doctors and , of course , from children themselves who are experiencing that harm and neglect . and obviously , we want to focus our energy and our attention on those children . equally , though , we do n't want to lose sight of those families and children that are experiencing significant problems , but who we want to support through our early intervention and prevention programmes , and that is why it is important that there is investment in those programmes , so that children do not end up in that terrible position where we have to , for their safety , take them from their birth families to protect them . and the reality is , in wales , that we are doing that to more children than we 've done for a long time , and the numbers are growing across wales . and that is only because of the most appalling neglect and abuse , because there is no way that any judge would permit us to act to make a child safe if it was not for that fact , and the facts are there . so , i do n't want that focus to be lost , but , of course , we welcome and understand the need to progress this piece of legislation . dawn bowden am : that rise that you talk about here , is that due to more interventions , greater awareness , more incidents ? i 'm trying to link this to the bill in terms of whether the bill is actually going to give you more work to do in those areas . sally jenkins : on the reasons for the rise in the numbers of looked-after children in wales , which are higher than those in england , and also the numbers of contacts that we have across the local authorities , the work of the care crisis review , which was completed last year ; the work of isabelle trowler , who 's the chief social worker in england ; countless research and reports that have taken place in the last 18 months ; and currently the public law working group , under the auspices of the president of the family court , would all indicate that it 's multifactorial . so , what you have is a range of reasons that have led to the increasing numbers of children becoming looked after across england and wales . what you ca n't do is identify a single reason . there have been headlines that have said , 'is it increased austerity ? ' that is clearly a part of this . is it in wales an increased awareness of adverse childhood experiences and the emphasis of the impact on children of , for example , domestic abuse ? is it because of our understanding of what happens to children in those households ? all of that research would say it 's all of those things . and then , when you also add in changes in our practice with our colleagues in the judiciary , changes in our police service , but also changes in our preventative services , you 've got that whole range of elements . and there is going on across the local authorities and welsh government a huge amount of work to try to address and understand that , and then to ameliorate that . children who need to be in care for safety need to be in care , but what we have to do is get to a point where fewer children come into care and we 're able to protect them , firstly , and secondly where those children who are in care are cared for in a way that delivers the best possible outcomes for them . so , there is no simple answer unfortunately . i think , in terms of this bill and unintended consequences , i agree absolutely with everything that huw has said . my job is around children at that far end , but what this bill does is it brings clarity . it brings a clarity even for those children at that very far end . it takes away even that point of discussion that this could possibly be okay , and i think that 's important to hang on to . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . sorry . alastair birch : one unintended consequences is that i think that there will be an increased focus on the uncrc . and , in terms of children having a discussion around this point , children need to be part of that discussion . it 's something that affects them . and a key aspect of education is the voice of the child . it has become significantly— . it 's changed completely in the last 10 years , and it is one of the key things in terms of us driving improvements . dawn bowden am : would that be something that you would be looking to do in schools ? alastair birch : anything that improves the voice of the child in any educational context is good and it 's very powerful for the children . and it improves their educational experiences , encouraging the opportunities for them to discuss the issues , the adverse childhood experiences that they encounter , which are significant , and it 's our educational professionals that are facing this day-in , day-out . they 've become a very highly trained workforce , they 're ace aware , they 're trauma aware , and anything that focuses , even increases , their professionalism and understanding around a particular point , and also— . so it 's a positive unintended consequence , shall we say , that it could reinvigorate some of the voice of the child discussion within various contexts . dawn bowden am : okay . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : we 've got some specific questions now on implementation for social services , from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . if this bill becomes law , would you encourage members of the public to contact social services departments if they do see a child being smacked ? sally jenkins : we already encourage members of the public to contact social services or the police , depending on the circumstances . interestingly , i 'm picking— janet finch-saunders am : what , if a child is being smacked now ? sally jenkins : yes . if a child is being smacked now , we would ask that people contact . we have a duty to report , as professionals . but if you were walking out , and you saw something happening to a child , in the same way as if you saw something to an adult . janet finch-saunders am : right . sally jenkins : so , i think that the challenge is about—we 've all probably , sadly , witnessed incidents in the doctor 's reception , or in a supermarket , and we 've failed to do something about it . and i think we then walk away and feel pretty guilty about that , realistically , when you see something happening to a child in a particular circumstance . i think we ca n't ignore the fact that a child is being assaulted in those circumstances . janet finch-saunders am : okay . thank you . a campaign opposing this bill , be reasonable wales , have said that 'if the law is changed , the consequences for parents will be considerable . ' it also says , 'anyone accused or convicted of assaulting a child—under the new definition— ' so , i suppose you could argue , a minor tap— 'will be subject to long-term social services involvement in their family and social stigma . ' to what extent is this accurate , and , also , will thresholds for social services intervention change if the bill is enacted ? sally jenkins : there are a number of parts to that . firstly , in terms of long-term social services intervention in a family 's life , i think , for people to be fully aware of the very few numbers of families where we have long-term intervention currently , even where there is what would be perceived as very significant abuse . what we do is we go in for short periods in families ' lives , to support them to work with their strengths , to work with them and their family members . it 's not about us going into families , whatever some of the public perception may be . our aim is to get in and get out . so , in terms of long-term intervention , what we want is for families to find their own solutions . we want families to be able to work with each other , and together , and local community support , and preventative services , to be able to address issues . this is not about punitive approaches from social services . so , that 's the first element . in terms of thresholds for children 's services , we would not be anticipating a huge number of referrals to us . there may be a small number of referrals that come through . what we know from other nations is that it will peak and then settle . we recognise that 's likely to happen . because we also know that this is actually quite a rare occurrence currently ; this is not a defence that 's being used with great frequency , this is not something that is happening . and if we look at the data , we know that the incidents of children , and the number of parents who now recognise this as an acceptable form of punishment , has steadily declined over the last 15 to 20 years . so it 's diminishing as it is . janet finch-saunders am : so , on that one then , is there a need for legislation that will—obviously there 'll be resources for the welsh government and there 'll be resources out of hours and things like that—is there a need for legislation if , as you say , natural behaviour and the culture is changing ? let 's be honest , as you 've rightly pointed out , in social services—i know in my own authority—in your own authority , you 're saying that even now you 're working with the police , on systematic failings within the system . sally jenkins : two things . firstly , we want legislation that reflects our society—we do n't want the two to be out of kilter . that would be my first natural response : surely our legislation should be reflective of what our world is . it should n't be that we 've got these rather confusing elements running in parallel , and that continues to perpetuate a lack of clarity and the ambiguity that we currently see . i think the other element is that , again , this is about potentially an accelerating of that awareness and that culture in our society , about how we care for our children . we 've got there naturally ; we 've got there by the change that 's happened in wales over the last 15 to 20 years . what this does is to continue with that change and continue with that awareness and understanding of how we positively , from a strength-based approach , should care for our children , bearing in mind what 's required of us in terms of the uncrc . janet finch-saunders am : okay . are there any comments from anyone else ? huw david : simply to say that i think that , in terms of that clarity for the very vulnerable children out there who are currently being assaulted—seriously assaulted and abused by their parents , which goes on on a daily basis—that is already covered by existing legislation . but at the moment , they do n't know , because they could be being told—and they probably are being told—by their parents that 's it 's okay , that they can smack their child and that that 's acceptable . they do n't know the difference . a young child is not going to know that difference and there is confusion about what is— . and if you asked most parents , and in fact lots of professionals , they would not be able to tell you , and probably most of you would n't be able to tell me exactly where is the threshold— janet finch-saunders am : yes , where 's that line . huw david : well , at the moment , we do n't know where that line is . that vulnerable child , at home , being abused by their parents , does not know where that line is . and they should know where that line is because then they can pick up the phone to childline or they can talk to a professional and ask them where that line is . so , that would be a step forward . i do recognise , though , that what we do n't want to do—and the last thing any of us want to do—is criminalise parents who are bringing up their children . that is why we 're saying there needs to be an emphasis on the support programmes that are available to parents . and to be clear , there is no way that we want long-term involvement in any child 's life , but particularly not in the lives of children who have been smacked by their parents . that is not going to be the result of this legislation , trust me , because we do n't want to be involved in—we have n't got the resources to be involved in children 's lives . the social worker or the police officer—if they become involved , then there would be a proportionate response to that , and there 'll also be a test about whether or not that is progressed . so , if there is an allegation—if this legislation is passed—then that will be looked into and a consideration will be made about whether any action will be taken , and as with any allegation of the law being broken , there would be a proportionate response , as there is now . lynne neagle am : and the next question does relate to the practical response to that . janet . janet finch-saunders am : yes . can you outline the practical ways in which social services ' interaction with parents will change as a result of this proposed law and do you envisage that all referrals to the police will be automatically referred to social services for an assessment ? who 's going to make those decisions ? sally jenkins : that will be part of the implementation phase about that decision making . interestingly , the number of referrals that we currently get from the police that we take absolutely no action on is extraordinary . so , we get a very , very large number of— . it will be happening now ; sitting in the civic centre in newport city council will be a whole host of social workers taking in the public protection notifications from overnight . it 's 10 o'clock , so they 're assessing them now , as we speak . and an awful lot of those will have no further action from the local authority . janet finch-saunders am : but will they be investigated ? sally jenkins : no . there will be no action . there are countless referrals made by agencies to local authorities that we take no action on . janet finch-saunders am : so , if there 's an increase as a result of greater awareness— sally jenkins : what happens is there is a paper assessment of them . there 's a look at what 's happened , who 's involved , what the police have reported , and there 's work being done with the police to improve that . because one of the things that we want to get to is actually where we 're not using huge amounts of time to look at that , but what comes to us is what we act on . so , there is work going on with a number of police authorities to look at how you improve that process . but i suppose , to pick up , each incident will be looked at , each one will be assessed in a way that is proportionate , as huw says , to look at what 's happened and then investigated . lynne neagle am : sally , can you give us a couple of examples of what kind of things might have come in that you would then take no action on ? sally jenkins : we get countless referrals , for example , where there 's been a domestic abuse incident overnight where a child was n't present in the property and we then have n't taken action . it ’ ll be where the level of harm that ’ s perceived to happen to that child is below the threshold for intervention from children 's services . janet finch-saunders am : i ’ m pretty cynical about assessment , because , you know , i have people come in who are benefit claimants where , when they ’ ve been assessed , the whole process has been very flawed and i ’ ve had to fight and fight and fight on their behalf . so— sally jenkins : assessment processes within social— janet finch-saunders am : but if you 're struggling now with those assessments— sally jenkins : assessment processes within social services are as laid out in the social services and well-being ( wales ) act 2014 . so , we have within what we carry out , i suppose , that kind of initial look , that look at the information , what else do we know about that family— janet finch-saunders am : and are they qualified people that are doing this ? sally jenkins : yes , absolutely . huw david : and , in fact , in lots of places in wales now , it ’ s a multi-agency assessment . so , it ’ s a joint assessment carried out with police professionals and health professionals . janet finch-saunders am : so , what proportion currently would you not be taking any action on , if a report came in of some domestic abuse where a child had perhaps been smacked ? sally jenkins : if something came in to us where a child had been smacked and there was something clearly there , we would look at it . we would clearly look at it and we would take some sort of action . janet finch-saunders am : even now , before the legislation ? lynne neagle am : can you ask a final question ? and i 'm going to have to appeal for brief answers , because we 've got a lot of ground to cover . huw david : just very quickly , there may be no action from social services , but it doesn ’ t mean that we don ’ t offer support . so , the expectation is that support is offered in those circumstances from family support services , for example— sally jenkins : or prevention . huw david : —or prevention services . so , we would not say , if we were aware , for example , that there was domestic abuse at a home , ‘ there ’ s no role for children ’ s social services ’ , because there may be an assessment that that child may not be at immediate risk of harm , but we would obviously recognise that there are causes for concern there and we would offer that support . so , just to be clear about that . and that ’ s a process that happens in every social services department in the uk , and it ’ s happened for a very long time , and , in fact , it ’ s reflective of the legislation that you have laid down as assembly members . lynne neagle am : and are those services there , huw ? because i ’ m very acutely aware of the pressure on local government . are the services there ? is there sufficient resource in things like families first ? because what i ’ m hearing on the ground is that eligibility is changing for even those preventative services . huw david : there ’ s not enough of those services , and , obviously—you may have heard me saying this before—i think we need to invest more in those services , and i hope you invest more in the services , because , obviously , prevention is better than cure . and those pressures that sally talked about earlier are pressures that are not going away ; they ’ re only increasing by the day , actually , and i would want us to be able to offer those services now . because that example of a child that perhaps is in a home where there is domestic abuse—we ’ ll probably have another referral off them in a couple of months ’ time , and that could escalate . and what i ’ d rather do is provide support to that family and try and stop that family breaking down so that , in six months , we 're not going back and saying that we 've got to take this child into care because the domestic abuse has worsened and that child is at risk . but those services need additional investment . sally jenkins : i appreciate that time is of the essence , but , just really quickly in relation to that , it ’ s not just social services . so , for example , there are developments like encompass , which is a piece of work that is being rolled out across gwent and across other areas , which is where the police automatically notify the school overnight of an incident , not expecting the school to do anything per se , but to be aware , to be able to offer care for that child . alastair birch : can i add to that ? operation encompass i know in gwent has been operational , and we started it in pembrokeshire 18 months ago . we as a local authority—and it ’ ll be education that will contact the school around the domestic incident happening , and the school as part of that protocol will provide a level of universal service support for that child when they come in , before 9 o ’ clock , so that professionals are aware of the needs of the welfare of that child at that point . so , you know , schools play a key role in the universal service of this and we work very closely with our social care colleagues on that . lynne neagle am : okay . janet , your last question , please . janet finch-saunders am : the bill 's explanatory memorandum refers to an estimate of 274 offences annually where lawful chastisement was used as a defence or considered . it says there is also potential to create extra demand on out-of-hours social services teams due to the time that the offences were reported , and in order to support safeguarding measures . have you assessed how this bill will impact on emergency and out-of-hours local authority services ? sally jenkins : we have considered that , and again i think that 's something that we would very much want to look at as part of implementation . we have out-of-hours provision , we have emergency duty teams already across wales that operate 24/7 . there 's no doubt that they exist and they work very closely with our police colleagues . janet finch-saunders am : are they overstretched at the moment ? sally jenkins : i think in the same way as all of social services is . if we were offered additional resource , we are going to take that . but are they working in a way that protects children day in , day out , and vulnerable adults ? yes , they are , and they will continue to do so . lynne neagle am : thank you very much . we 've got some specific questions now on the impact on education from jayne bryant . jayne bryant am : thank you , chair . good morning . alastair , you 've already mentioned about awareness raising and training , which will be key with educational professionals . how confident are you that teachers and others working in those educational settings will be clear about how to support the implementation of this bill , if enacted ? alastair birch : training requirements for all professionals in education settings are clear . the universal tier 1 training is there , and all local authorities in wales will implement that . in that level of general safeguarding awareness and training , the infinite emphasis is on the duty to report . that will remain the same . the thresholds for social care , that 's their responsibility . that duty to report will always be there . it says in 'keeping learners safe ' , which is the bible in terms of education professionals , that there 's a responsibility on the professional to make that referral and for that universal service . so , the more specialist safeguarding leads within the schools , who have become highly skilled professionals in terms of understanding what might be significant harm—because that 's what we 're talking about—they understand the legalities when a referral needs to be made . there 's always the collation of safeguarding information , where there might be just general concerns about neglect and other areas , which combined would create a picture that there might be significant neglect or significant harm to the child , and then that referral would be made to the child care assessment team or the police . so , that awareness—it needs to be clear for educational professionals that that duty to report is always there . if they believe that that significant harm has happened then that report then goes to the child care assessment team . they will make the judgment on the threshold because they are the professionals . they have the multi-agency awareness of how that meets the threshold . but in terms of education , it 'll be that awareness , making sure that there 's clarity . if there 's anything that professionals need to be trained additionally on , it 'll need to go into 'keeping learners safe ' , which at the moment is being rewritten . so , there would have to be some new possible information there relating to this . but as long as there 's clarity , and once that implementation phase and the discussion has happened , as long as it 's clear for professionals that the duty is always there and they feel a significant harm , then that report will always be there and will always need to be made . it 's making sure—and i 'll echo what my colleague said , huw—that the services are key for families . schools are absolutely fundamental in that support for the families . they have those relationships with the families . i know there was discussion around professional trust . on a daily basis , professionals are working on that trust with parents , because they are the ones that can engage with those families . the family support officers that are working on the ground with highly complex families , with multiple leads and supporting the children—they are fundamental , and investment in that level of support would also help our colleagues as well . so , anything that 's preventative . that is already happening in schools and is effective , and is shown to be effective , and has an evidence base—we 'd always support that that would continue to be invested in . so , that 's really my answer . jayne bryant am : okay . and you were saying about how important trust is as well , but do you think that there 's a risk that those in education settings will have a key role in referring more parents to social services , which some have said could cause potential harm to relationships and cause mistrust ? alastair birch : i do n't think it 's a matter of mistrust—it 's a matter of , you know , if a professional believes , based on the evidence that they have , because they 're working with that child every day , that there is significant harm to that child , they are under a duty to report that to social care . so , part of the work is with families , and most of the referrals we make are with parental consent . that consent is a key element of this , and conversation with our social care colleagues is usually , 'you need to speak to the parents again and have a conversation with them . ' some of the nfas—the ones that do n't get referred at threshold—it will come back to school for , possibly , some support from the family or a team around the family or some other aspect . so , i do n't think— . the trust in the professionals—it 's actually more important that we are seen to be upholding our duties under the all-wales safeguarding procedures . that 's what engenders trust in a professional workforce . jayne bryant am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : thank you very much . we 're going to move on now to some questions about the importance of awareness raising from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : good morning . in looking at your written evidence , you say that we must make it very clear to parents , guardians and the public that this legislation is not trying to criminalise parents , and that is clearly very important for you . how do you think we should do that and who should be doing that work ? sally jenkins : i think that 's really broad . obviously , colleagues in education , colleagues in social care , colleagues in preventative services , but also welsh government and the national assembly , in terms of those drivers in relation to that awareness raising are really , really key . if you look at some of the other campaigns that have been run , notably in relation to violence against women , domestic abuse and sexual violence , and echoing some of those building campaigns that have been done to raise awareness—i think those would be really good models to begin to consider in terms of how this is taken forward with awareness . we also know that there are a number of routes that we can go through in terms of raising awareness . we have existing preventative services , we have all our universal services , we have the regional safeguarding boards and the national safeguarding boards . so , there are a number of avenues that we could then explore . in terms of not wishing to criminalise , i think if we look at the numbers , they are very , very small . and i think one of the things we need to hold on to in this is a sense of proportion about what is or is n't likely to happen once or if this bill ever gets to the point of royal assent—they are small numbers who currently use this defence . it is about that wider issue of awareness raising , and using all of those avenues will help us to do that in the broadest sense . sian gwenllian am : do you , therefore , believe that this needs to be on the face of the bill ? that is , you do n't say this in your evidence . i 'd like to know your opinion on that . scotland is going to be making it a duty for scottish ministers to raise awareness of the impact of the bill . so far , the welsh government says that we do n't need to do that in wales . would n't it make it clearer for you if it was a clear duty on the face of the bill , for example as it was with the human transplantation ( wales ) act 2013 ? there was a duty in that act for ministers to promote transplantation . surely , that awareness raising aspect would be clearer for everyone if it was on the face of the bill . do you have an opinion on that ? huw david : well , welsh government have given that commitment , and i know the welsh government honour every commitment that they make— [ laughter . ] sian gwenllian am : that 's why i 'm asking . huw david : i do n't know whether that is necessary—i 'm not a legislator . i think that there 's obviously an inherent interest in welsh government raising awareness , because we have to raise awareness effectively for this to be successful , otherwise we will have parents who feel that they 're being criminalised , and that 's the last thing we want . i think it 's worthy of consideration , but , as i say , i 'm not a legislator or a lawyer , so i do n't know what implications that will have long term . but to be fair to welsh government , i think that commitment is one that i 'm sure will be honoured , because welsh government will want to make a success of this bill if it does receive royal assent . sian gwenllian am : okay . but is it clear who would pay for all of that ? huw david : i 've suddenly changed my mind— [ laughter . ] i think it should be a duty on welsh government ministers—absolutely . i do n't need to check with lawyers or legislators . there we go . and that 's the wlga position ; i do n't need to ask the other 21 leaders on that either . [ laughter . ] sian gwenllian am : would n't it make it clearer if there was a clear duty on the face of the bill that awareness raising had to happen ? it would be clearer , then , for local authorities and people in the front-line services what needs to happen . sally jenkins : i 'm going to echo huw . [ laughter . ] sian gwenllian am : i thought you might . okay , fine . lynne neagle am : okay . we 're moving on now , then , to the contentious issue of resources and we 've got some questions from hefin . hefin david am : sally jenkins , you said that the purpose of the bill is to bring clarity and to remove what is a little-used defence . is n't this an expensive way of doing that ? sally jenkins : i do n't think so , no . i think that our children deserve the best legislation . hefin david am : but introducing this legislation diverts finances from other areas of children 's services—or does n't ? sally jenkins : well , i would say , no , i do n't think it will divert resources from children 's services . firstly , going back to the comment made , i think , proportionally , this is a very small number of cases . it 's a very small number of existing cases that go through in terms of prosecution , or consideration for prosecution . we know that it 's likely , from some of the work that we 've already done , that it 's not opening floodgates for a sudden sea of referrals to children 's services—that 's not the way this is going to be , because the numbers are not out there because of the changes that have already happened in welsh family life and welsh society . so , i think as part of the implementation phase , we need to have a really clear understanding of the trajectory of those costs and what 's likely to happen over the first six months , 12 months in terms of people 's awareness and understanding and what is referred and how that 's worked . but in terms of a huge number , no , i do n't anticipate it being that . hefin david am : but the costs would n't just be directed to the number of referrals and the number of cases raised , it 's the cost around that , with training of staff , awareness—all those extra additional costs that always come with legislation . is it too much ? is it— ? sally jenkins : no . and i agree with that—that there clearly are—but if you think , many of those things will be aligned with work we are already doing , but it brings a clarity to that work . so , our teachers , our social workers , our health workers , our police officers already get substantial training around child protection , around safeguarding , around adverse childhood experiences and around a trauma-informed approach to children . what this does is it layers a clarity on that . but rather than having a part of that training , which has to deal with this as an aspect—that is no longer there ; it is a clear message for all professions . hefin david am : i fully appreciate that , and in the briefing note you 've given us , you 've outlined the pressures on social services . so , do you think this is another way of getting money into social services ? sally jenkins : if this was a way of getting money into— . i can think of better ways , but i do n't think this is it . no , i mean , i absolutely do not think that . i think this is a clear commitment to the rights of children in wales ; this is not about levering additional resources into children 's services . oh that it was so simple . hefin david am : okay . and , do you think those costs are quantifiable ? sally jenkins : i think we are currently looking at work and are doing work across my own local authority and across two others to look at breaking down those costs , not just for local authority , but also for health , for police and for children and family court advisory and support service cymru . so , there is work currently taking place to try to quantify those costs . hefin david am : okay . i think there was a bit about local authorities that siân— lynne neagle am : okay . siân gwenllian has got a question on resources . sian gwenllian am : yes , just to carry on from that , in a way . the explanatory memorandum that accompanies the bill talks about the unknown costs for different agencies . you mentioned there that you 're doing work around trying to identify some of those costs , but would n't it be useful if the explanatory memorandum did explain more about any unknown or unidentified costs , partly in order to calm some of those fears around that ? giving a title 'unidentified costs'—is that good enough ? sally jenkins : i think , clearly , that is a challenge , and that is work that we are participating in and are committed to completing with welsh government , to look at what those costs are . sian gwenllian am : and then they can be added into this . huw david : i think this is where it would be helpful in the committee 's deliberations and where our concern would be , because the reality is we 're not going to know what the costs are until it 's actually implemented , because we have n't implemented this before . and , therefore , i think there needs to be a commitment that , whatever the costs are , those costs are met because it is legislation that is being led by the national assembly for wales . and whilst we do n't see it as levering in additional resources , we do n't think it should be at the expense of current service provision to vulnerable families in wales , and therefore it 's important that it is properly and fully resourced . sian gwenllian am : what i would argue on that is that you have to try and forecast . you say it 's difficult to forecast how much this is going to cost , but we have to try and forecast that , and part of the argument for trying to have projections is to show that , perhaps , it 's not going to cost that much , and that would add to the argument that , 'okay , this is going to be fine to do and it 's not going to put too much pressure on us ' . or we need to know that this is going to cost a lot to do it effectively , and therefore you have to make your argument , then , 'well , we ca n't afford that , the money has to come from somewhere else . ' we have to get the costs , surely . huw david : yes , and we will work very closely with welsh government to try and establish those costs as quickly as possible . there will be some costs that we will be able to identify . so , for example , a campaign , an awareness-raising campaign , the marketing , if you like , but some of the other costs will be more difficult to establish in terms of the resource implications for front-line workers . i expressed a view that we need to see some additional investment in some of those programmes that are not targeted directly at families that would be impacted by this but support all families across wales that have different needs , and some of that provision is universal . obviously , my view is the more we put into that , the better . so , there 's no limit to that , but i suspect welsh government will take a very different view to that . but i think that is something where we need to see a commitment to some additional resources . but i do n't put an upper limit on that , because i do n't think there 's an authority in wales , and i do n't think there 's a charity , a police service or a health board in wales that does n't think that we need to do more of that and could offer more of that if the resources were available . sian gwenllian am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : okay . we 've come to the end of our time , so can i thank you all for attending and for answering all of our questions ? it 's been a really useful and informative discussion . as usual , you 'll be sent a transcript to check for accuracy following the meeting , but thank you again , all of you , for coming . huw david : and thank you for your questions and engagement . we welcome the opportunity . alastair birch : thank you very much . sally jenkins : thank you very much . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the unintended consequences for this bill ? </s> dawn bowden am : so , i 've got largely positive feedback from you in terms of the bill and its intentions , and so on . do you foresee any unintended consequences for this bill ? huw david : if we implement it carefully , if we implement it with the right resources , then i hope not . i think not . but as with every piece of legislation , it is about the implementation , it is about the cultural change as well , and that 's why i can not overstress the importance of making sure that resources are made available , because our social services departments—children 's social services in particular—are overstretched . they are at breaking point—make no bones about it—and they are dealing with children who are facing serious harm and neglect . we are having record numbers of contacts from police , from teachers , from doctors and , of course , from children themselves who are experiencing that harm and neglect . and obviously , we want to focus our energy and our attention on those children . equally , though , we do n't want to lose sight of those families and children that are experiencing significant problems , but who we want to support through our early intervention and prevention programmes , and that is why it is important that there is investment in those programmes , so that children do not end up in that terrible position where we have to , for their safety , take them from their birth families to protect them . and the reality is , in wales , that we are doing that to more children than we 've done for a long time , and the numbers are growing across wales . and that is only because of the most appalling neglect and abuse , because there is no way that any judge would permit us to act to make a child safe if it was not for that fact , and the facts are there . so , i do n't want that focus to be lost , but , of course , we welcome and understand the need to progress this piece of legislation . dawn bowden am : that rise that you talk about here , is that due to more interventions , greater awareness , more incidents ? i 'm trying to link this to the bill in terms of whether the bill is actually going to give you more work to do in those areas . sally jenkins : on the reasons for the rise in the numbers of looked-after children in wales , which are higher than those in england , and also the numbers of contacts that we have across the local authorities , the work of the care crisis review , which was completed last year ; the work of isabelle trowler , who 's the chief social worker in england ; countless research and reports that have taken place in the last 18 months ; and currently the public law working group , under the auspices of the president of the family court , would all indicate that it 's multifactorial . so , what you have is a range of reasons that have led to the increasing numbers of children becoming looked after across england and wales . what you ca n't do is identify a single reason . there have been headlines that have said , 'is it increased austerity ? ' that is clearly a part of this . is it in wales an increased awareness of adverse childhood experiences and the emphasis of the impact on children of , for example , domestic abuse ? is it because of our understanding of what happens to children in those households ? all of that research would say it 's all of those things . and then , when you also add in changes in our practice with our colleagues in the judiciary , changes in our police service , but also changes in our preventative services , you 've got that whole range of elements . and there is going on across the local authorities and welsh government a huge amount of work to try to address and understand that , and then to ameliorate that . children who need to be in care for safety need to be in care , but what we have to do is get to a point where fewer children come into care and we 're able to protect them , firstly , and secondly where those children who are in care are cared for in a way that delivers the best possible outcomes for them . so , there is no simple answer unfortunately . i think , in terms of this bill and unintended consequences , i agree absolutely with everything that huw has said . my job is around children at that far end , but what this bill does is it brings clarity . it brings a clarity even for those children at that very far end . it takes away even that point of discussion that this could possibly be okay , and i think that 's important to hang on to . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . sorry . alastair birch : one unintended consequences is that i think that there will be an increased focus on the uncrc . and , in terms of children having a discussion around this point , children need to be part of that discussion . it 's something that affects them . and a key aspect of education is the voice of the child . it has become significantly— . it 's changed completely in the last 10 years , and it is one of the key things in terms of us driving improvements . dawn bowden am : would that be something that you would be looking to do in schools ? </s>
<s> what did huw david say about the unintended consequences for this bill ? </s>  </s>
<s> what did people say about what caused the raising of the number of the looked-after children when talking about the unintended consequences ? </s>  </s>
<s> summarize the questions and answers on the implementation for social services . </s> lynne neagle am : we 've got some specific questions now on implementation for social services , from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . if this bill becomes law , would you encourage members of the public to contact social services departments if they do see a child being smacked ? sally jenkins : we already encourage members of the public to contact social services or the police , depending on the circumstances . interestingly , i 'm picking— janet finch-saunders am : what , if a child is being smacked now ? sally jenkins : yes . if a child is being smacked now , we would ask that people contact . we have a duty to report , as professionals . but if you were walking out , and you saw something happening to a child , in the same way as if you saw something to an adult . janet finch-saunders am : right . sally jenkins : so , i think that the challenge is about—we 've all probably , sadly , witnessed incidents in the doctor 's reception , or in a supermarket , and we 've failed to do something about it . and i think we then walk away and feel pretty guilty about that , realistically , when you see something happening to a child in a particular circumstance . i think we ca n't ignore the fact that a child is being assaulted in those circumstances . janet finch-saunders am : okay . thank you . a campaign opposing this bill , be reasonable wales , have said that 'if the law is changed , the consequences for parents will be considerable . ' it also says , 'anyone accused or convicted of assaulting a child—under the new definition— ' so , i suppose you could argue , a minor tap— 'will be subject to long-term social services involvement in their family and social stigma . ' to what extent is this accurate , and , also , will thresholds for social services intervention change if the bill is enacted ? sally jenkins : there are a number of parts to that . firstly , in terms of long-term social services intervention in a family 's life , i think , for people to be fully aware of the very few numbers of families where we have long-term intervention currently , even where there is what would be perceived as very significant abuse . what we do is we go in for short periods in families ' lives , to support them to work with their strengths , to work with them and their family members . it 's not about us going into families , whatever some of the public perception may be . our aim is to get in and get out . so , in terms of long-term intervention , what we want is for families to find their own solutions . we want families to be able to work with each other , and together , and local community support , and preventative services , to be able to address issues . this is not about punitive approaches from social services . so , that 's the first element . in terms of thresholds for children 's services , we would not be anticipating a huge number of referrals to us . there may be a small number of referrals that come through . what we know from other nations is that it will peak and then settle . we recognise that 's likely to happen . because we also know that this is actually quite a rare occurrence currently ; this is not a defence that 's being used with great frequency , this is not something that is happening . and if we look at the data , we know that the incidents of children , and the number of parents who now recognise this as an acceptable form of punishment , has steadily declined over the last 15 to 20 years . so it 's diminishing as it is . janet finch-saunders am : so , on that one then , is there a need for legislation that will—obviously there 'll be resources for the welsh government and there 'll be resources out of hours and things like that—is there a need for legislation if , as you say , natural behaviour and the culture is changing ? let 's be honest , as you 've rightly pointed out , in social services—i know in my own authority—in your own authority , you 're saying that even now you 're working with the police , on systematic failings within the system . sally jenkins : two things . firstly , we want legislation that reflects our society—we do n't want the two to be out of kilter . that would be my first natural response : surely our legislation should be reflective of what our world is . it should n't be that we 've got these rather confusing elements running in parallel , and that continues to perpetuate a lack of clarity and the ambiguity that we currently see . i think the other element is that , again , this is about potentially an accelerating of that awareness and that culture in our society , about how we care for our children . we 've got there naturally ; we 've got there by the change that 's happened in wales over the last 15 to 20 years . what this does is to continue with that change and continue with that awareness and understanding of how we positively , from a strength-based approach , should care for our children , bearing in mind what 's required of us in terms of the uncrc . janet finch-saunders am : okay . are there any comments from anyone else ? huw david : simply to say that i think that , in terms of that clarity for the very vulnerable children out there who are currently being assaulted—seriously assaulted and abused by their parents , which goes on on a daily basis—that is already covered by existing legislation . but at the moment , they do n't know , because they could be being told—and they probably are being told—by their parents that 's it 's okay , that they can smack their child and that that 's acceptable . they do n't know the difference . a young child is not going to know that difference and there is confusion about what is— . and if you asked most parents , and in fact lots of professionals , they would not be able to tell you , and probably most of you would n't be able to tell me exactly where is the threshold— janet finch-saunders am : yes , where 's that line . huw david : well , at the moment , we do n't know where that line is . that vulnerable child , at home , being abused by their parents , does not know where that line is . and they should know where that line is because then they can pick up the phone to childline or they can talk to a professional and ask them where that line is . so , that would be a step forward . i do recognise , though , that what we do n't want to do—and the last thing any of us want to do—is criminalise parents who are bringing up their children . that is why we 're saying there needs to be an emphasis on the support programmes that are available to parents . and to be clear , there is no way that we want long-term involvement in any child 's life , but particularly not in the lives of children who have been smacked by their parents . that is not going to be the result of this legislation , trust me , because we do n't want to be involved in—we have n't got the resources to be involved in children 's lives . the social worker or the police officer—if they become involved , then there would be a proportionate response to that , and there 'll also be a test about whether or not that is progressed . so , if there is an allegation—if this legislation is passed—then that will be looked into and a consideration will be made about whether any action will be taken , and as with any allegation of the law being broken , there would be a proportionate response , as there is now . lynne neagle am : and the next question does relate to the practical response to that . janet . janet finch-saunders am : yes . can you outline the practical ways in which social services ' interaction with parents will change as a result of this proposed law and do you envisage that all referrals to the police will be automatically referred to social services for an assessment ? who 's going to make those decisions ? sally jenkins : that will be part of the implementation phase about that decision making . interestingly , the number of referrals that we currently get from the police that we take absolutely no action on is extraordinary . so , we get a very , very large number of— . it will be happening now ; sitting in the civic centre in newport city council will be a whole host of social workers taking in the public protection notifications from overnight . it 's 10 o'clock , so they 're assessing them now , as we speak . and an awful lot of those will have no further action from the local authority . janet finch-saunders am : but will they be investigated ? sally jenkins : no . there will be no action . there are countless referrals made by agencies to local authorities that we take no action on . janet finch-saunders am : so , if there 's an increase as a result of greater awareness— sally jenkins : what happens is there is a paper assessment of them . there 's a look at what 's happened , who 's involved , what the police have reported , and there 's work being done with the police to improve that . because one of the things that we want to get to is actually where we 're not using huge amounts of time to look at that , but what comes to us is what we act on . so , there is work going on with a number of police authorities to look at how you improve that process . but i suppose , to pick up , each incident will be looked at , each one will be assessed in a way that is proportionate , as huw says , to look at what 's happened and then investigated . lynne neagle am : sally , can you give us a couple of examples of what kind of things might have come in that you would then take no action on ? sally jenkins : we get countless referrals , for example , where there 's been a domestic abuse incident overnight where a child was n't present in the property and we then have n't taken action . it ’ ll be where the level of harm that ’ s perceived to happen to that child is below the threshold for intervention from children 's services . janet finch-saunders am : i ’ m pretty cynical about assessment , because , you know , i have people come in who are benefit claimants where , when they ’ ve been assessed , the whole process has been very flawed and i ’ ve had to fight and fight and fight on their behalf . so— sally jenkins : assessment processes within social— janet finch-saunders am : but if you 're struggling now with those assessments— sally jenkins : assessment processes within social services are as laid out in the social services and well-being ( wales ) act 2014 . so , we have within what we carry out , i suppose , that kind of initial look , that look at the information , what else do we know about that family— janet finch-saunders am : and are they qualified people that are doing this ? sally jenkins : yes , absolutely . huw david : and , in fact , in lots of places in wales now , it ’ s a multi-agency assessment . so , it ’ s a joint assessment carried out with police professionals and health professionals . janet finch-saunders am : so , what proportion currently would you not be taking any action on , if a report came in of some domestic abuse where a child had perhaps been smacked ? sally jenkins : if something came in to us where a child had been smacked and there was something clearly there , we would look at it . we would clearly look at it and we would take some sort of action . janet finch-saunders am : even now , before the legislation ? lynne neagle am : can you ask a final question ? and i 'm going to have to appeal for brief answers , because we 've got a lot of ground to cover . huw david : just very quickly , there may be no action from social services , but it doesn ’ t mean that we don ’ t offer support . so , the expectation is that support is offered in those circumstances from family support services , for example— sally jenkins : or prevention . huw david : —or prevention services . so , we would not say , if we were aware , for example , that there was domestic abuse at a home , ‘ there ’ s no role for children ’ s social services ’ , because there may be an assessment that that child may not be at immediate risk of harm , but we would obviously recognise that there are causes for concern there and we would offer that support . so , just to be clear about that . and that ’ s a process that happens in every social services department in the uk , and it ’ s happened for a very long time , and , in fact , it ’ s reflective of the legislation that you have laid down as assembly members . lynne neagle am : and are those services there , huw ? because i ’ m very acutely aware of the pressure on local government . are the services there ? is there sufficient resource in things like families first ? because what i ’ m hearing on the ground is that eligibility is changing for even those preventative services . huw david : there ’ s not enough of those services , and , obviously—you may have heard me saying this before—i think we need to invest more in those services , and i hope you invest more in the services , because , obviously , prevention is better than cure . and those pressures that sally talked about earlier are pressures that are not going away ; they ’ re only increasing by the day , actually , and i would want us to be able to offer those services now . because that example of a child that perhaps is in a home where there is domestic abuse—we ’ ll probably have another referral off them in a couple of months ’ time , and that could escalate . and what i ’ d rather do is provide support to that family and try and stop that family breaking down so that , in six months , we 're not going back and saying that we 've got to take this child into care because the domestic abuse has worsened and that child is at risk . but those services need additional investment . sally jenkins : i appreciate that time is of the essence , but , just really quickly in relation to that , it ’ s not just social services . so , for example , there are developments like encompass , which is a piece of work that is being rolled out across gwent and across other areas , which is where the police automatically notify the school overnight of an incident , not expecting the school to do anything per se , but to be aware , to be able to offer care for that child . alastair birch : can i add to that ? operation encompass i know in gwent has been operational , and we started it in pembrokeshire 18 months ago . we as a local authority—and it ’ ll be education that will contact the school around the domestic incident happening , and the school as part of that protocol will provide a level of universal service support for that child when they come in , before 9 o ’ clock , so that professionals are aware of the needs of the welfare of that child at that point . so , you know , schools play a key role in the universal service of this and we work very closely with our social care colleagues on that . lynne neagle am : okay . janet , your last question , please . janet finch-saunders am : the bill 's explanatory memorandum refers to an estimate of 274 offences annually where lawful chastisement was used as a defence or considered . it says there is also potential to create extra demand on out-of-hours social services teams due to the time that the offences were reported , and in order to support safeguarding measures . have you assessed how this bill will impact on emergency and out-of-hours local authority services ? sally jenkins : we have considered that , and again i think that 's something that we would very much want to look at as part of implementation . we have out-of-hours provision , we have emergency duty teams already across wales that operate 24/7 . there 's no doubt that they exist and they work very closely with our police colleagues . janet finch-saunders am : are they overstretched at the moment ? </s>
<s> what sally jenkins answered to what extent was `` anyone accused or convicted of assaulting a child will be subject to long-term social services involvement in their family and social stigma '' accurately when discussing the implementation for social services ? </s>  </s>
<s> summarize huw david ' s opinion on whether there was a need for legislation if natural behavior and the culture is changing when discussing the implementation for social services . </s> huw david : simply to say that i think that , in terms of that clarity for the very vulnerable children out there who are currently being assaulted—seriously assaulted and abused by their parents , which goes on on a daily basis—that is already covered by existing legislation . but at the moment , they do n't know , because they could be being told—and they probably are being told—by their parents that 's it 's okay , that they can smack their child and that that 's acceptable . they do n't know the difference . a young child is not going to know that difference and there is confusion about what is— . and if you asked most parents , and in fact lots of professionals , they would not be able to tell you , and probably most of you would n't be able to tell me exactly where is the threshold— janet finch-saunders am : yes , where 's that line . </s>
<s> summarize the specific questions and answers on the impact on education . </s> sally jenkins : there are a number of parts to that . firstly , in terms of long-term social services intervention in a family 's life , i think , for people to be fully aware of the very few numbers of families where we have long-term intervention currently , even where there is what would be perceived as very significant abuse . what we do is we go in for short periods in families ' lives , to support them to work with their strengths , to work with them and their family members . it 's not about us going into families , whatever some of the public perception may be . our aim is to get in and get out . so , in terms of long-term intervention , what we want is for families to find their own solutions . we want families to be able to work with each other , and together , and local community support , and preventative services , to be able to address issues . this is not about punitive approaches from social services . so , that 's the first element . in terms of thresholds for children 's services , we would not be anticipating a huge number of referrals to us . there may be a small number of referrals that come through . what we know from other nations is that it will peak and then settle . we recognise that 's likely to happen . because we also know that this is actually quite a rare occurrence currently ; this is not a defence that 's being used with great frequency , this is not something that is happening . and if we look at the data , we know that the incidents of children , and the number of parents who now recognise this as an acceptable form of punishment , has steadily declined over the last 15 to 20 years . so it 's diminishing as it is . janet finch-saunders am : so , on that one then , is there a need for legislation that will—obviously there 'll be resources for the welsh government and there 'll be resources out of hours and things like that—is there a need for legislation if , as you say , natural behaviour and the culture is changing ? let 's be honest , as you 've rightly pointed out , in social services—i know in my own authority—in your own authority , you 're saying that even now you 're working with the police , on systematic failings within the system . sally jenkins : two things . firstly , we want legislation that reflects our society—we do n't want the two to be out of kilter . that would be my first natural response : surely our legislation should be reflective of what our world is . it should n't be that we 've got these rather confusing elements running in parallel , and that continues to perpetuate a lack of clarity and the ambiguity that we currently see . i think the other element is that , again , this is about potentially an accelerating of that awareness and that culture in our society , about how we care for our children . we 've got there naturally ; we 've got there by the change that 's happened in wales over the last 15 to 20 years . what this does is to continue with that change and continue with that awareness and understanding of how we positively , from a strength-based approach , should care for our children , bearing in mind what 's required of us in terms of the uncrc . janet finch-saunders am : okay . are there any comments from anyone else ? huw david : simply to say that i think that , in terms of that clarity for the very vulnerable children out there who are currently being assaulted—seriously assaulted and abused by their parents , which goes on on a daily basis—that is already covered by existing legislation . but at the moment , they do n't know , because they could be being told—and they probably are being told—by their parents that 's it 's okay , that they can smack their child and that that 's acceptable . they do n't know the difference . a young child is not going to know that difference and there is confusion about what is— . and if you asked most parents , and in fact lots of professionals , they would not be able to tell you , and probably most of you would n't be able to tell me exactly where is the threshold— janet finch-saunders am : yes , where 's that line . huw david : well , at the moment , we do n't know where that line is . that vulnerable child , at home , being abused by their parents , does not know where that line is . and they should know where that line is because then they can pick up the phone to childline or they can talk to a professional and ask them where that line is . so , that would be a step forward . i do recognise , though , that what we do n't want to do—and the last thing any of us want to do—is criminalise parents who are bringing up their children . that is why we 're saying there needs to be an emphasis on the support programmes that are available to parents . and to be clear , there is no way that we want long-term involvement in any child 's life , but particularly not in the lives of children who have been smacked by their parents . that is not going to be the result of this legislation , trust me , because we do n't want to be involved in—we have n't got the resources to be involved in children 's lives . the social worker or the police officer—if they become involved , then there would be a proportionate response to that , and there 'll also be a test about whether or not that is progressed . so , if there is an allegation—if this legislation is passed—then that will be looked into and a consideration will be made about whether any action will be taken , and as with any allegation of the law being broken , there would be a proportionate response , as there is now . lynne neagle am : and the next question does relate to the practical response to that . janet . janet finch-saunders am : yes . can you outline the practical ways in which social services ' interaction with parents will change as a result of this proposed law and do you envisage that all referrals to the police will be automatically referred to social services for an assessment ? who 's going to make those decisions ? sally jenkins : that will be part of the implementation phase about that decision making . interestingly , the number of referrals that we currently get from the police that we take absolutely no action on is extraordinary . so , we get a very , very large number of— . it will be happening now ; sitting in the civic centre in newport city council will be a whole host of social workers taking in the public protection notifications from overnight . it 's 10 o'clock , so they 're assessing them now , as we speak . and an awful lot of those will have no further action from the local authority . janet finch-saunders am : but will they be investigated ? </s>
<s> how confident alastair birch was that teachers and others working in those educational settings would be clear about how to support the implementation of this bill ? </s>  </s>
<s> how did alastair birch respond to whether there was a risk that those in education settings would have a key role in referring more parents to social services , which causes mistrust ? </s> jayne bryant am : okay . and you were saying about how important trust is as well , but do you think that there 's a risk that those in education settings will have a key role in referring more parents to social services , which some have said could cause potential harm to relationships and cause mistrust ? </s>
<s> summarize their discussions on awareness raising . </s> sian gwenllian am : good morning . in looking at your written evidence , you say that we must make it very clear to parents , guardians and the public that this legislation is not trying to criminalise parents , and that is clearly very important for you . how do you think we should do that and who should be doing that work ? sally jenkins : i think that 's really broad . obviously , colleagues in education , colleagues in social care , colleagues in preventative services , but also welsh government and the national assembly , in terms of those drivers in relation to that awareness raising are really , really key . if you look at some of the other campaigns that have been run , notably in relation to violence against women , domestic abuse and sexual violence , and echoing some of those building campaigns that have been done to raise awareness—i think those would be really good models to begin to consider in terms of how this is taken forward with awareness . we also know that there are a number of routes that we can go through in terms of raising awareness . we have existing preventative services , we have all our universal services , we have the regional safeguarding boards and the national safeguarding boards . so , there are a number of avenues that we could then explore . in terms of not wishing to criminalise , i think if we look at the numbers , they are very , very small . and i think one of the things we need to hold on to in this is a sense of proportion about what is or is n't likely to happen once or if this bill ever gets to the point of royal assent—they are small numbers who currently use this defence . it is about that wider issue of awareness raising , and using all of those avenues will help us to do that in the broadest sense . sian gwenllian am : do you , therefore , believe that this needs to be on the face of the bill ? that is , you do n't say this in your evidence . i 'd like to know your opinion on that . scotland is going to be making it a duty for scottish ministers to raise awareness of the impact of the bill . so far , the welsh government says that we do n't need to do that in wales . would n't it make it clearer for you if it was a clear duty on the face of the bill , for example as it was with the human transplantation ( wales ) act 2013 ? there was a duty in that act for ministers to promote transplantation . surely , that awareness raising aspect would be clearer for everyone if it was on the face of the bill . do you have an opinion on that ? huw david : well , welsh government have given that commitment , and i know the welsh government honour every commitment that they make— [ laughter . ] sian gwenllian am : that 's why i 'm asking . huw david : i do n't know whether that is necessary—i 'm not a legislator . i think that there 's obviously an inherent interest in welsh government raising awareness , because we have to raise awareness effectively for this to be successful , otherwise we will have parents who feel that they 're being criminalised , and that 's the last thing we want . i think it 's worthy of consideration , but , as i say , i 'm not a legislator or a lawyer , so i do n't know what implications that will have long term . but to be fair to welsh government , i think that commitment is one that i 'm sure will be honoured , because welsh government will want to make a success of this bill if it does receive royal assent . sian gwenllian am : okay . but is it clear who would pay for all of that ? huw david : i 've suddenly changed my mind— [ laughter . ] i think it should be a duty on welsh government ministers—absolutely . i do n't need to check with lawyers or legislators . there we go . and that 's the wlga position ; i do n't need to ask the other 21 leaders on that either . [ laughter . ] sian gwenllian am : would n't it make it clearer if there was a clear duty on the face of the bill that awareness raising had to happen ? it would be clearer , then , for local authorities and people in the front-line services what needs to happen . sally jenkins : i 'm going to echo huw . [ laughter . ] </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on how to make it clear to parents that the legislation is not trying to criminalize parents . </s> sian gwenllian am : good morning . in looking at your written evidence , you say that we must make it very clear to parents , guardians and the public that this legislation is not trying to criminalise parents , and that is clearly very important for you . how do you think we should do that and who should be doing that work ? </s>
<s> what did huw david respond to whether this needed to be on the face of the bill ? </s> sian gwenllian am : do you , therefore , believe that this needs to be on the face of the bill ? that is , you do n't say this in your evidence . i 'd like to know your opinion on that . scotland is going to be making it a duty for scottish ministers to raise awareness of the impact of the bill . so far , the welsh government says that we do n't need to do that in wales . would n't it make it clearer for you if it was a clear duty on the face of the bill , for example as it was with the human transplantation ( wales ) act 2013 ? there was a duty in that act for ministers to promote transplantation . surely , that awareness raising aspect would be clearer for everyone if it was on the face of the bill . do you have an opinion on that ? huw david : well , welsh government have given that commitment , and i know the welsh government honour every commitment that they make— [ laughter . ] sian gwenllian am : that 's why i 'm asking . huw david : i do n't know whether that is necessary—i 'm not a legislator . i think that there 's obviously an inherent interest in welsh government raising awareness , because we have to raise awareness effectively for this to be successful , otherwise we will have parents who feel that they 're being criminalised , and that 's the last thing we want . i think it 's worthy of consideration , but , as i say , i 'm not a legislator or a lawyer , so i do n't know what implications that will have long term . but to be fair to welsh government , i think that commitment is one that i 'm sure will be honoured , because welsh government will want to make a success of this bill if it does receive royal assent . sian gwenllian am : okay . but is it clear who would pay for all of that ? huw david : i 've suddenly changed my mind— [ laughter . ] i think it should be a duty on welsh government ministers—absolutely . i do n't need to check with lawyers or legislators . there we go . and that 's the wlga position ; i do n't need to ask the other 21 leaders on that either . [ laughter . ] sian gwenllian am : would n't it make it clearer if there was a clear duty on the face of the bill that awareness raising had to happen ? it would be clearer , then , for local authorities and people in the front-line services what needs to happen . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : just put it on the deskt desktop . project manager : no on the desktop you 'll find you should find that there 's a project documents link . a well actually just there . marketing : project documents , project manager : yeah . that 's it . marketing : yeah . project manager : if you dump it in there . marketing : what 's your username ? project manager : your username . marketing : what 's your username and password ? mm-hmm . sorry . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . there we go . project manager : excellent . right . hopefully that 's us ready to uh to go . so . functional design meeting . we 'll have to flesh out some of the uh stuff . um we 'll start with the minutes of the last meeting . not a lot thankfully to say . we introduced ourselves , discussed the possibility of a macro facility , interac interacting the tv a bit more , um mentioning of bar-code , joystick for user manipulation , um and ergonomics of the remote control as well . um it 's come to my attention the following . teletext has become outdated due to the populat popularity of the internet . remote control should only be used for the tv . um due for uh time to market and possibly also cost issues . um also key is the corporate image should stay recognisable , um f uh your colour and slogan of course is down at the bottom there . um . now . just to say quickly uh i would have thought that only being used for a television the macro facility may now not be required . um or at l its functionality would have been of limited use . so to the point in my opinion anyway that it might not be worth pursuing . um if anybody disagrees we can uh definitely say so . um and hopefully we 'll just crack on and we 'll get everything going . um i 'd like to if possible hear from our marketing expert first , to help us gain an idea of where we 're going to go . marketing : 'kay . project manager : so um i 'll just load up your presentation from here if you want . marketing : sure . um , sh would you like to i 'll just do it from here . project manager : yep . sorry . uh . is yours the marketing : um , try second one maybe . try it , yeah maybe . project manager : oh sorry . okay , right . marketing : yeah . okay . oh , i thought i put in my last name , i guess not , but . project manager : uh if you that 's all right . if you do you want me to just cycle through it for you or ? marketing : okay . oh yeah , that 'd be fine , that 'd be great . project manager : yeah ? marketing : okay . functional requirement by me ebenezer . project manager : okay . marketing : okay , so um we did some research , we asked one hundred people their opinions on remote controls . we asked some uh open ended questions , just , what are your opinions on the remote control , got a lot of re responses , and we asked some very specific questions , and we got a lot of good feedback . please bear in mind this is only a hundred people , so even when the groups are divided into fifteen to twenty five , twenty five to thirty five , there 's only maybe ten people fifteen people in each group . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . so we got some the bad stuff we got , remotes are often lost . i often lose my remote control , the back of the couch , some place , and even if it 's not lost permanently , it takes me a few minutes to find it . most buttons are not used any more , like you said , teletext is outdated now . i remember trying to load a d_v_d_ player recently , and there were so many buttons , it took me i do n't know maybe ten minutes to to go through each button , 'cause you have to press the shift button to access the yellow buttons , you know there 's just a lot of stuff that no one really uses . and if they do , not very often . takes too long to master the remote control . i 've seen some remote controls that are big , they have a lot of buttons , you have to hold down more than one key at one time to do something , they 're just not great to use . we just got a lot of bad complaints about remote controls , people do not like remote controls . some of the good stuff we got . between the age of uh fifteen and twenty five , most people would be willing to pay extra for voice recognition software . now do n't get excited yet , i 've got more to say on that . most people 'd be willing to pay for that um most people want remote controls to be pretty , they want it to be fancy , th they they want it to be different , everybody has a white remote control with black buttons , and a red button and a green button , not everybody wants that . finally , my opinion . the voice recognition thing is cool . and uh voice recognition , the software , open source software exist already . it 's a bit sketchy at some times , uh , you 're not gon na get good always accurate results , but for a very fixed number of words , you know you have , how many different words can you have for a remote control , up , down , left , right , channel five , channel seven , you know , how many , you ca n't have that many words . for a fixed vocabulary it works quite well . i 'm pretty sure people would buy it . but after a while people may wan na return it , because if you have to to say som i mean most people use a remote control for switching to channels , and they say they do that about ninety eight percent of the time . using the remote control , ninety eight percent of the time for changing channels , and that 's for flickering through channels . so if you have to say up , up , up , up , if you have to do that all the time , then people might get a bit fed up with that and they may return it . however , oh , because the voice recognition software exists already , there 's no need to spend money on research and development , but this does mean the need for microphones in the in the remote control , which is an unusual feature in my opinion . but if we do have the voice recognition thing , there 's a lot of stuff that you can uh get rid of . see , you could there 're two options . either you have voice recognition by itself , which i think is a bit impractical for like night time if you wan na be watching television and you wan na be quiet , or i do n't know you have a visitor coming round and the remote 's only trained for you , it 's a bit impractical to have just voice recognition by itself . so you can have voice recognition and a regular remote . but imagine you got rid of the regular remote part , then you can design the remote to look any way you want it to look , because there are no restrictions on physical size , or shape , it it could be as fancy as you want it to be , you know , it could be like a lollipop or something like that , something weird like that . as long as the voice recognition stuff works , that 's that 's fine . project manager : okay , yep . marketing : so we have the three birds , we have the design , that we have the the fancy bit , right , the voice recognition 's fancy , it 's cool , it 's different , it 's radical , so , and then we have an extra bit i do n't remember so i 'm pretty sure people will buy the remote , but is it practical to have a voice recognition system in a remote control , i think is a big question . um , will people will people be willing to wait for the the period that it 'll take to train the remote , 'cause i think it will the remote will uh get better over time with the same user user , but for the first week or for the first two weeks are you willing to wait , are you willing to have a bad remote control . and uh what if you have visitors come round , they stay the night , they wan na use the tv , they ca n't use the remote because they speak differently to you . um , how do you account for regional accents and stuff like that . uh , will people return the remote control , i think a lot of young people will buy the remote control , if they have the money , you know , so , project manager : mm-hmm . if you could uh marketing : do our audience have the money , but would they return it after a while because it 's not as fast as pressing a button , it 's not a practical . so . these are things i think we should consider . i think it 's cool , project manager : if you could speed it up a bit , yeah . if you could uh speed it up a bit please , yeah . marketing : i 'm sorry ? sure . project manager : sorry . marketing : i 'm about to end , yeah . project manager : cool . marketing : i think it 's cool but there are definitely some considerations . project manager : okay . excellent . marketing : so , yeah . project manager : right . um . hear from the user interface designer now i think might be an idea . user interface : okay . project manager : um , you 've got your presentation now , industrial designer : how did where did user interface : yeah , it 's in the it 's in the folder project manager : is it on the industrial designer : where did you get all your in information ? user interface : yeah . project manager : is it ? okay . marketing : there was uh a website , uh , project manager : technical functions ? marketing : right here . industrial designer : ah , okay . project manager : no . yeah . okay . user interface : okay , this is a brief run through of the um of the technical functions of the remote . as um is uh the the the presentation is uh already slightly obsolete because i had in mind something that would uh be i be aimed at controlling multiple devices but uh there 's still stuff of relevance , so project manager : okay . user interface : press on . i 've looked at looked at a num uh couple of other uh remote control models just for an idea of basic design principles . um and was n't really satisfied by what i saw i have to say so this is more sort of springboard for uh how these could be improved on . um um basically the job of the device is to send commands to an appliance , in this case the television set . um to save you getting off your backside . um and there 's two main trends in th in the sort of design practice . on the one hand and this uh this particularly relates to its sort of earliest models where with you know i so so many buttons on it so about the size of the television set . um giving you every possible function that the that the device has , the remote control controls . and most of these functions are not going to be used , it creates a rather user unfriendly interface . and on the other hand there 's a user focused approach that pares things down to just what what is most likely to get used . um with uh a and a and of course there is a certain amount of sort of loss of function here obviously , but mostly that 's relatively peripheral functions . and so you go for something that 's fairly intuitive to use , and um well f the for the most part for tv remote it 's uh tha that would be channel control and volume . um and if you if you if you are wanting to incorporate uh control of a d_v_ d_v_d_ or uh v_c_r_ presumably into that then there 's a play , pause , stop , rewind , fast-forward , record , so forth . um . my own view is that we should definitely be going for a user focused design . um but uh the pro i think the problem with a lot of the sort of user focused designs that are about is that they sort of make assumptions in advance about what uh what a given user 's going to uh want mo want to do from want it to do most . so , something that 's uh something that is more programmable , that uh perh perhaps has the full range of functions available to it but you can then specify yourself what you 're most likely to want . um so that those are then immediately accessible through fairly minimal number of controls , um i liked ebenezer 's idea of including a joystick in that and uh possibly a sort of fairly minimal number of sort of function buttons , and have a disp you then have some sort of basic display on it so that if you 're um sort of cha changing from different modes for the device it 'll tell you just exactly what uh you know each direction of the uh of the um joystick 's going to do or wha or what each function button 's going to do . um , this is actually a again slightly taking inspiration off of uh games controllers , you know the playstation control where you have four basic function buttons that are just marked with um distinctive uh geometrical shapes but the and then dependent on what you 're doing with it what game and so on um those uh those functions are then sort of further specified . and so it 's taking taking the lead from that . um . project manager : okay . yeah . user interface : that 's it . project manager : right . um , if we could hear from our industrial engineer , or designer . industrial designer : yeah . uh , i was still working on stuff , i had n't got it finished . um , alright . click to save in where do i have to save it ? project manager : if you look on the desktop you 'll find that there 's a link to the project folder , or project documents . if you save it in there we can open it up from here . industrial designer : um , what i 've done with it , i 'm sorry . shit . um project manager : are you finding it okay or ? industrial designer : i 'm just closing it now . where i 've saved it . marketing : well like if you go to one , uh whichever one you were working industrial designer : that 's it there , marketing : yeah , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and you just click file save as . industrial designer : oh right . project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh , right i 'm responsible for working design , uh , this is basically the inside going on of the the uh remote control . so we have the energy source , we have the user interface , this this is what i 've seen . uh the sender will push the button , the chip will respond , uh and then the dig digital signal is sent to the tv . so uh uh , if you go to next slide , you 'll see you 'll see uh what do we need on the user interface . do we need uh many buttons , or do we need l many light bulbs that could be easier to uh to realise which appliances are on or not . um , , or would that take too much power , would we need more um components in there to supply the power ? um , the joystick is another thing , if we were gon na add that , um , there 'd be more components to deal with that . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um , so uh we need to i dunno exactly what that 's the design of the the the layout of the uh electronic design , um obviously there 'll be more details once we 've decided what we 're putting on the user interface . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so , that 'll be decided , i guess . uh , and the next slide . oh , yeah um , if you go to the next slide then . project manager : oh . yeah . marketing : industrial designer : i just used the it was a mess , uh i was just putting adding it together at the end there . uh project manager : ah , do n't worry about it at all mate . industrial designer : uh so you have the energy source obviously connected to the chip , and the user interface obviously contains everything . you have the switch turn it on , infrared bulb , uh will contact the tv and will have whatever device or d_v_d_ player , the bulb will turn on to say it 's on . uh , so do we need on the control uh different buttons to decide , or different light bulbs , would it be easier ? um , i dunno what we should decide on that . project manager : okay . well . oh sorry , i 'm i 'm interrupting you . are you is it industrial designer : no , it 's finished , yeah . project manager : yeah ? okay . right . um , right we can probably skip that for now . so , we 've had some stuff put forward , um along with the new user requirements , um we 've had a lot of kind of input i 'd say so far . um i hear what the marketing expert 's saying about um voice activated control . however i 've got a couple of worries about that . the power required , um and the ability to the cost , it seems like for uh an embedded system , this could cause us issues . industrial designer : cost . mm . project manager : um for example you see that there 's fairly robust services on uh computers via uh via voice , i_b_m_ do um drag and dictate , but these require a lot of memory marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and usually um state quite advanced processor requirements . um voice activation could be an interesting idea but i think that our ind industrial designer would probably upon some research say that it 's maybe not feasible . marketing : 'kay . project manager : um that 's just my view right now , user interface : mm . project manager : however the idea of a joystick and then maybe an lcd which has been kind of put forward so far , it 's almost like having a small t_ not tv to say , but if you can control almost all of the functionality from the display , i do n't know how much power an lcd would take , but it might be quite low ? marketing : mm . i uh industrial designer : lcd on the remote just telling you what 's on , or uh , interactive lcd or project manager : well literally um if you can imagine the display maybe slightly larger than um those on a a mobile phone , something where you can read an an um fair amount of information , traverse maybe quite a few menus , if we maybe used mobile phones as a good example , they usually incorporate they have the keypad , and then evr all the other functionality is usually associated inside by traversing around . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that could be one possibility . um and then we could have like say the common buttons as you say , volume control , changing channels user interface : mm . i i was thinking that the remote the um sort of default functions for the joystick would be up and down for uh volume , left and right for channels . project manager : we industrial designer : do you think that people will get mixed up , like , they 'll be looking at this screen and that screen and then , you know , trying to get everything working , would it be a bit confusing ? user interface : um i think probably for the first couple of hours of using it industrial designer : yeah . user interface : um but you know muscle memory 's a wonderful thing , um . and i think and i think that size of uh display was about what i had in mind . um though i mean i w i would say that uh we could probably probably be required to um mo most of the mobile phone displays you see these days are colour but we should probably try to stick to black and white . project manager : i would agree with you . user interface : si si simply to keep m keep the unit cost down . um i mean colour could be a sort of subsequent development but uh you know cost a bit of extra money f w w w w w once everyone 's got the first , you know , oh colour 's out , we 'll have to replace it wo n't we . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : it does nothing extra . project manager : that would be my feeling as well , i think we could possibly create quite a useful user interface . um now i mean i do n't marketing : sure but the idea of a remote with a menu or and a joystick i think like i h if i was in the habit of buying remote controls then i would want one , project manager : sorry , go for it . marketing : but i think we do n't have a specific audience , you know , like what is our target audience , what niche are niche are we trying to market and corner . you know , you know what i 'm saying , like , for whom is this intended ? everybody ? project manager : i think it could probably be aimed at most people who 've used a mobile . and that might be just another way of saying try to target most people . marketing : most people , yeah . project manager : um , if we are if we were to follow that avenue , we might be s you know um we 're kind of almost relying on their experience with a mobile phone i suppose . but that does cover a very large section of the people out there . marketing : mm-hmm . sure . i think that 's fair yeah . project manager : um , i mean i imagine as well that the actual lcd and maybe to a certain extent the joystick as well would be for the additional functionality . which maybe does n't get used as often , maybe it makes it easy for them to figure out how to um change the channels as in the frequencies and such for reprogramming it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um and you can still have the main buttons that allow the people to turn the machine on and off , d up and down , it depends , i mean maybe we have the fol um the joystick as a separate one for the other functions then , that there 's just a a small number of as you were saying uh buttons that have already been defined . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so like we go for the nice standard um up and down for and volume control . so that literally anybody can come along , pick up the remote and still know what do do . and they can completely ignore most of the functionality which would be for say the o actual owner of the the tv marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and who would normally use the unit . user interface : mm . i th the thing i like about the uh the uh joystick project manager : i dunno . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : is that uh you you you then basically you can then basically put it i mean for for t_ t_ for tv remote alone , you could put um i mean there are like i say the the the main things people do with a tv remote control is the volume and the channel . you can pack all that onto was onto a single control . um . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but uh but the but then o uh obviously if uh you know if you i if you wanted to access further functions i you you then get to sort of menu navigation . i mean with things like ch with things like tuning and channels um you know adjusting brightn uh brightness and fiddly things that no one really bothers with , most tvs these days actually have menus anyway so this would be a fairly rational way of integra project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : integrating the uh the remote with the device it 's controlling . um concern about our market . um , if we are i mean most of the uh of the replacement remote market is sort of remote control rationalisation . um , you 've got twenty different devices in your living room , marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : you want one wo y you want one that 'll do the job of all of them . um , if all you 're replacing is one of the you know however many remotes you have in your living room , um you know you still need separate remotes for everything else . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i just think that uh possibly project manager : well this is a requirement that we have to stick to i 'm afraid , this is n't one that i 've just arbitrarily decided on . so um this is this is one of the solid ones that has to be obeyed , for now . so i can understand your point , and i would agree with you , but this is our design spec for now . 'fraid to say . um user interface : does that um would that include um access to say interactive functions on digital or cable ? marketing : yeah . project manager : i would say so , yes , because then we have to be able to control the remote boxes , and that is a separate unit . um i think that it i would say that the design spec we 've been with is for the television only for now . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : and until we hear otherwise we should go with just that . marketing : hmm . okay , specifically television . user interface : okay . project manager : okay . maybe we 'll hear differently , but for now marketing : so the joystick is just for differentness . project manager : it would be ease of manipulation of certain functions , yes . um marketing : okay . user interface : just a thought . um maybe then our market should be tv manufacturers , rather than the public . try and sell it t sell it to them to supply with um project manager : there is that possibility , yes . b however i do n't know exactly where we 'll be going with that , but it might not even be the avenue of the marketing expert , marketing : mm . project manager : that might be sales , who are not in this meeting . marketing : mm-hmm . it 's just , the way i figure it , twelve point five euros per unit , we have to sell at least like three million or something like that , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : not to account for all the the money we waste on remotes that no one buys , you know , like if we made a perf if we made a ks for every remote we made someone bought it , then we have to sell a lot of remote controls . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : we just is this gon na be enough to to sell ? project manager : well , something else that you brought up was uh the ability to lose a remote , which as you said you 've done , in fact we 've probably all done . marketing : yeah . project manager : um , i do n't know if it 's a gimmick or not , but have any of you ever seen those odd little key rings where if you whistle , it will beep and you tell you where it is . user interface : mm , yeah , i 've seen them . marketing : i had one of those , and my brother , and my dad , could have beat me up project manager : um . well marketing : because it it went off all the time accidentally . project manager : the other option of course is that um the marketing : the clapping one . project manager : well i was going to say clapping , um um digital telephones , uh for example , one unit has of course you have to have that base unit , somewhere where there 's a button , but maybe it 's a button that you attach to the tv . marketing : to a television . project manager : something which you when you press that , it would beep to give its location away , on the remote unit . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , i think that 's a good idea . project manager : and that could be something could um separate us a bit . marketing : yeah , that 's a good idea . project manager : and that way , because we 're attaching what would be a small button to the tv , again say what , it would be a small transmitter , um watch battery type scenario i would say , or something that if it was problems enough you could actually even just um i do n't power that might be something that we could look into . industrial designer : yeah project manager : yep . yeah , it 's uh putting a lot on your shoulders there , so i mean that could be something that separates us a bit from the market as well . marketing : i think so , yeah . industrial designer : project manager : so . to go on from here . um we have to decide exactly what we 're going to do with the remote . before we leave this meeting , it would be best to say this is what we 're going this is the design we 're gon na try and get , this is how we 're gon na make ourselves look unique . do we go for maybe a remote contro uh sorry , we 're gon na go for a remote control obviously , do we go for a small joystick that would operate say changing channels , up and down , and then , what , another button that would say that it 's now being used to manoeuvre round the lcd . user interface : mm yeah . yeah , i think that 's industrial designer : we 're just saying volume . should volume be important in the joystick , do you think ? user interface : yeah . project manager : we could use say the left and right for changing channels and the up and down for volume , user interface : for volume . project manager : and marketing : but we have a frequency of how what people use a remote control for most . project manager : okay . marketing : um , power is used like once per hour , channel selection is used a hundred and sixty eight per hour , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : that 's by far the biggest one , and then teletext , is still here , that 's like fourteen , project manager : vol volume selection okay , yep , marketing : and volume selection . project manager : the teletext we 're gambling with , and we 're gon na say it 's dead , the way of the dodo marketing : no , yeah , okay okay . yeah , um project manager : so we well , sorry , we could maybe even go as far as saying power button , small joystick , lcd , and then what maybe is it one more button to say that you 're using the menu system , and with the possibility of pushing down on the joystick to say okay ? so we 're having very very few buttons involved , user interface : actually how project manager : but navigation around a menu for most things . user interface : actually i would say maybe two two function buttons , the y we 're now using the menus button and um and an og and an okay button . i mean certainly something i 've found with the joystick on mo the joysticks on mobile phones is that a lot of the time th the device mistakes you trying to move it in one direction or the other for pushing down for okay . project manager : okay . user interface : or vice versa . project manager : okay . user interface : and that 's really irritating . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : the o the o the other dis design constraint i think we should bear in mind is that people are you know very much used to using a remote control one handedly , um , so we need to make sure that e even with the joystick , you know something that can just sit comfortably in the palm of the hand and have the joystick just controlled by the thumb . project manager : okay . so um we 're actually that sounds like a rough idea . do we incorporate the idea of trying to f locate the remote control again via a beeping noise ? industrial designer : yeah , think so . project manager : do you mind looking ? marketing : um , i think because it 's so small it might be an uh i mean if we only have like two three buttons it might be essential to have to have that project manager : the ability to locate it again . marketing : yeah . project manager : so that would require a um transmitter maybe attached to the tv , just so that it says find me , and what , a basically a small microphone um on the actual unit , can maybe hide it in the base . industrial designer : light bulb as well , user interface : oh . so so project manager : sorry ? user interface : a small speaker you mean . project manager : some speaker , marketing : speaker project manager : sorry , yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and a light bulb ? no . to flash . no . user interface : project manager : um industrial designer : nah , you 'd see it anyway , if you hear it . project manager : e us we might be better with the sound possibly we could maybe incorporate marketing : w those little key-rings have both , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : th e the true fact , considering the cost of an l_e_d_ , we could just incorporate it anyway . marketing : so yeah . project manager : the l_e_d_s can be surprisingly bright now . marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . blue ones particularly . project manager : um . so user interface : plus that 's a nice wee design touch . marketing : yeah . project manager : by the sounds of it , with what we 're suggesting so far , your design um the user interface is still quite open , you could go for quite an interesting design . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : because we 're only going to have a very few key and you 've got you know a small lcd , joystick , e i think it leaves you open to a a potential wide range of shapes , something that can make it stand out slightly . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um if you could look into what we 've suggested so far , the feasibility of um small transmitter , um and such , maybe if an lcd screen requires too much power , or such . ebenezer , um , marketing expert marketing : well i can give you the frequency , what people what options people use most often , i guess that 's gon na be important in the ts defining the the software side of the interface , right . you want the stuff . project manager : yeah if you could maybe as well see what people think about the idea of this minimalist approach that we 've taken , where of a joystick to control the very basic functions , and then the idea of manipulating it like you would a mobile . marketing : okay . project manager : i do n't know how easy that will be within the time frame , marketing : okay . project manager : but could be something we could maybe look into . marketing : mm-hmm . sure . sure . project manager : okay . um any last comments that anybody would like to put forward ? anything that they think has been missed out . bit of a wide open question there of course . feel free to email me if you think that uh we 've screwed something up and wan na get it rectified as soon as possible . marketing : sure . 'kay . yeah . project manager : right . industrial designer : so i should just look at um the speaker , the speaker and an l_e_d_ . user interface : project manager : speaker and l_e_d_ for locating , um , industrial designer : and marketing : transmitter . industrial designer : yeah , and a transmitter . project manager : transmitter user interface : actually one one wee thought about that . um , if we do end up trying to market this to television manufacturers then the um then the transmitter could actually be built into the television . project manager : getting the external power source , yep , that 's quite true . um , and something that we can can easily be adopted at the last minute as well i 'd say . user interface : yeah . project manager : the electronics could be s either placed externally or internally , makes no difference to the final product of the actual remote control , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so that 's good . user interface : mm-hmm . you know i think project manager : 'kay . user interface : i mean if it w if we get a major television manufacturer to say y oh yeah we 'll have that , save us the bother , then that 's you know vast amounts of sales . quite quickly . project manager : oh , one thing that we 've almost not talked about at all , my apologies for that , um , user interface , we also need to maybe get the slogan in here , um it 's , industrial designer : fashion . project manager : i 'm pointing at my laptop , what in god real reaction , and such . so um industrial designer : the slogan is project manager : oh , sorry . industrial designer : yeah , the slogan 's we put the fashion in electronics , is n't it ? project manager : my apologies . no it could well be , i 've probably missed that . um , i think that 's l almost the last minute thing industrial designer : 's also look cool . project manager : we can just incorporate into the actual plastic on top . so i 'm not too concerned a that we have n't gone into depth about that . but it might be something you could consider when you 're thinking about shapes ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : in fact we might like to put a slogan on , and um possibly the two r_s to signify the company . rather than real reaction . user interface : mm-hmm . mm . yeah . i thought the uh the d the double arc could perhaps uh be the uh the enter button . project manager : sounds good . user interface : . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about user requirements of the new remote control ? </s> marketing : okay , so um we did some research , we asked one hundred people their opinions on remote controls . we asked some uh open ended questions , just , what are your opinions on the remote control , got a lot of re responses , and we asked some very specific questions , and we got a lot of good feedback . please bear in mind this is only a hundred people , so even when the groups are divided into fifteen to twenty five , twenty five to thirty five , there 's only maybe ten people fifteen people in each group . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . so we got some the bad stuff we got , remotes are often lost . i often lose my remote control , the back of the couch , some place , and even if it 's not lost permanently , it takes me a few minutes to find it . most buttons are not used any more , like you said , teletext is outdated now . i remember trying to load a d_v_d_ player recently , and there were so many buttons , it took me i do n't know maybe ten minutes to to go through each button , 'cause you have to press the shift button to access the yellow buttons , you know there 's just a lot of stuff that no one really uses . and if they do , not very often . takes too long to master the remote control . i 've seen some remote controls that are big , they have a lot of buttons , you have to hold down more than one key at one time to do something , they 're just not great to use . we just got a lot of bad complaints about remote controls , people do not like remote controls . some of the good stuff we got . between the age of uh fifteen and twenty five , most people would be willing to pay extra for voice recognition software . now do n't get excited yet , i 've got more to say on that . most people 'd be willing to pay for that um most people want remote controls to be pretty , they want it to be fancy , th they they want it to be different , everybody has a white remote control with black buttons , and a red button and a green button , not everybody wants that . finally , my opinion . the voice recognition thing is cool . and uh voice recognition , the software , open source software exist already . it 's a bit sketchy at some times , uh , you 're not gon na get good always accurate results , but for a very fixed number of words , you know you have , how many different words can you have for a remote control , up , down , left , right , channel five , channel seven , you know , how many , you ca n't have that many words . for a fixed vocabulary it works quite well . i 'm pretty sure people would buy it . but after a while people may wan na return it , because if you have to to say som i mean most people use a remote control for switching to channels , and they say they do that about ninety eight percent of the time . using the remote control , ninety eight percent of the time for changing channels , and that 's for flickering through channels . so if you have to say up , up , up , up , if you have to do that all the time , then people might get a bit fed up with that and they may return it . however , oh , because the voice recognition software exists already , there 's no need to spend money on research and development , but this does mean the need for microphones in the in the remote control , which is an unusual feature in my opinion . but if we do have the voice recognition thing , there 's a lot of stuff that you can uh get rid of . see , you could there 're two options . either you have voice recognition by itself , which i think is a bit impractical for like night time if you wan na be watching television and you wan na be quiet , or i do n't know you have a visitor coming round and the remote 's only trained for you , it 's a bit impractical to have just voice recognition by itself . so you can have voice recognition and a regular remote . but imagine you got rid of the regular remote part , then you can design the remote to look any way you want it to look , because there are no restrictions on physical size , or shape , it it could be as fancy as you want it to be , you know , it could be like a lollipop or something like that , something weird like that . as long as the voice recognition stuff works , that 's that 's fine . project manager : okay , yep . marketing : so we have the three birds , we have the design , that we have the the fancy bit , right , the voice recognition 's fancy , it 's cool , it 's different , it 's radical , so , and then we have an extra bit i do n't remember so i 'm pretty sure people will buy the remote , but is it practical to have a voice recognition system in a remote control , i think is a big question . um , will people will people be willing to wait for the the period that it 'll take to train the remote , 'cause i think it will the remote will uh get better over time with the same user user , but for the first week or for the first two weeks are you willing to wait , are you willing to have a bad remote control . and uh what if you have visitors come round , they stay the night , they wan na use the tv , they ca n't use the remote because they speak differently to you . um , how do you account for regional accents and stuff like that . uh , will people return the remote control , i think a lot of young people will buy the remote control , if they have the money , you know , so , project manager : mm-hmm . if you could uh marketing : do our audience have the money , but would they return it after a while because it 's not as fast as pressing a button , it 's not a practical . so . these are things i think we should consider . i think it 's cool , project manager : if you could speed it up a bit , yeah . if you could uh speed it up a bit please , yeah . marketing : i 'm sorry ? sure . project manager : sorry . marketing : i 'm about to end , yeah . project manager : cool . marketing : i think it 's cool but there are definitely some considerations . project manager : okay . excellent . </s>
<s> what did marketing think of the incorporation of voice recognition when discussing user requirements of the new remote control ? </s> marketing : okay . so we got some the bad stuff we got , remotes are often lost . i often lose my remote control , the back of the couch , some place , and even if it 's not lost permanently , it takes me a few minutes to find it . most buttons are not used any more , like you said , teletext is outdated now . i remember trying to load a d_v_d_ player recently , and there were so many buttons , it took me i do n't know maybe ten minutes to to go through each button , 'cause you have to press the shift button to access the yellow buttons , you know there 's just a lot of stuff that no one really uses . and if they do , not very often . takes too long to master the remote control . i 've seen some remote controls that are big , they have a lot of buttons , you have to hold down more than one key at one time to do something , they 're just not great to use . we just got a lot of bad complaints about remote controls , people do not like remote controls . some of the good stuff we got . between the age of uh fifteen and twenty five , most people would be willing to pay extra for voice recognition software . now do n't get excited yet , i 've got more to say on that . most people 'd be willing to pay for that um most people want remote controls to be pretty , they want it to be fancy , th they they want it to be different , everybody has a white remote control with black buttons , and a red button and a green button , not everybody wants that . finally , my opinion . the voice recognition thing is cool . and uh voice recognition , the software , open source software exist already . it 's a bit sketchy at some times , uh , you 're not gon na get good always accurate results , but for a very fixed number of words , you know you have , how many different words can you have for a remote control , up , down , left , right , channel five , channel seven , you know , how many , you ca n't have that many words . for a fixed vocabulary it works quite well . i 'm pretty sure people would buy it . but after a while people may wan na return it , because if you have to to say som i mean most people use a remote control for switching to channels , and they say they do that about ninety eight percent of the time . using the remote control , ninety eight percent of the time for changing channels , and that 's for flickering through channels . so if you have to say up , up , up , up , if you have to do that all the time , then people might get a bit fed up with that and they may return it . however , oh , because the voice recognition software exists already , there 's no need to spend money on research and development , but this does mean the need for microphones in the in the remote control , which is an unusual feature in my opinion . but if we do have the voice recognition thing , there 's a lot of stuff that you can uh get rid of . see , you could there 're two options . either you have voice recognition by itself , which i think is a bit impractical for like night time if you wan na be watching television and you wan na be quiet , or i do n't know you have a visitor coming round and the remote 's only trained for you , it 's a bit impractical to have just voice recognition by itself . so you can have voice recognition and a regular remote . but imagine you got rid of the regular remote part , then you can design the remote to look any way you want it to look , because there are no restrictions on physical size , or shape , it it could be as fancy as you want it to be , you know , it could be like a lollipop or something like that , something weird like that . as long as the voice recognition stuff works , that 's that 's fine . project manager : okay , yep . marketing : so we have the three birds , we have the design , that we have the the fancy bit , right , the voice recognition 's fancy , it 's cool , it 's different , it 's radical , so , and then we have an extra bit i do n't remember so i 'm pretty sure people will buy the remote , but is it practical to have a voice recognition system in a remote control , i think is a big question . um , will people will people be willing to wait for the the period that it 'll take to train the remote , 'cause i think it will the remote will uh get better over time with the same user user , but for the first week or for the first two weeks are you willing to wait , are you willing to have a bad remote control . and uh what if you have visitors come round , they stay the night , they wan na use the tv , they ca n't use the remote because they speak differently to you . um , how do you account for regional accents and stuff like that . uh , will people return the remote control , i think a lot of young people will buy the remote control , if they have the money , you know , so , project manager : mm-hmm . if you could uh marketing : do our audience have the money , but would they return it after a while because it 's not as fast as pressing a button , it 's not a practical . so . these are things i think we should consider . i think it 's cool , project manager : if you could speed it up a bit , yeah . if you could uh speed it up a bit please , yeah . marketing : i 'm sorry ? sure . project manager : sorry . marketing : i 'm about to end , yeah . project manager : cool . marketing : i think it 's cool but there are definitely some considerations . project manager : okay . excellent . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about details of button design and location function ? </s> project manager : so . to go on from here . um we have to decide exactly what we 're going to do with the remote . before we leave this meeting , it would be best to say this is what we 're going this is the design we 're gon na try and get , this is how we 're gon na make ourselves look unique . do we go for maybe a remote contro uh sorry , we 're gon na go for a remote control obviously , do we go for a small joystick that would operate say changing channels , up and down , and then , what , another button that would say that it 's now being used to manoeuvre round the lcd . user interface : mm yeah . yeah , i think that 's industrial designer : we 're just saying volume . should volume be important in the joystick , do you think ? user interface : yeah . project manager : we could use say the left and right for changing channels and the up and down for volume , user interface : for volume . project manager : and marketing : but we have a frequency of how what people use a remote control for most . project manager : okay . marketing : um , power is used like once per hour , channel selection is used a hundred and sixty eight per hour , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : that 's by far the biggest one , and then teletext , is still here , that 's like fourteen , project manager : vol volume selection okay , yep , marketing : and volume selection . project manager : the teletext we 're gambling with , and we 're gon na say it 's dead , the way of the dodo marketing : no , yeah , okay okay . yeah , um project manager : so we well , sorry , we could maybe even go as far as saying power button , small joystick , lcd , and then what maybe is it one more button to say that you 're using the menu system , and with the possibility of pushing down on the joystick to say okay ? so we 're having very very few buttons involved , user interface : actually how project manager : but navigation around a menu for most things . user interface : actually i would say maybe two two function buttons , the y we 're now using the menus button and um and an og and an okay button . i mean certainly something i 've found with the joystick on mo the joysticks on mobile phones is that a lot of the time th the device mistakes you trying to move it in one direction or the other for pushing down for okay . project manager : okay . user interface : or vice versa . project manager : okay . user interface : and that 's really irritating . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : the o the o the other dis design constraint i think we should bear in mind is that people are you know very much used to using a remote control one handedly , um , so we need to make sure that e even with the joystick , you know something that can just sit comfortably in the palm of the hand and have the joystick just controlled by the thumb . project manager : okay . so um we 're actually that sounds like a rough idea . do we incorporate the idea of trying to f locate the remote control again via a beeping noise ? industrial designer : yeah , think so . project manager : do you mind looking ? marketing : um , i think because it 's so small it might be an uh i mean if we only have like two three buttons it might be essential to have to have that project manager : the ability to locate it again . marketing : yeah . project manager : so that would require a um transmitter maybe attached to the tv , just so that it says find me , and what , a basically a small microphone um on the actual unit , can maybe hide it in the base . industrial designer : light bulb as well , user interface : oh . so so project manager : sorry ? user interface : a small speaker you mean . project manager : some speaker , marketing : speaker project manager : sorry , yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and a light bulb ? no . to flash . no . user interface : project manager : um industrial designer : nah , you 'd see it anyway , if you hear it . project manager : e us we might be better with the sound possibly we could maybe incorporate marketing : w those little key-rings have both , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : th e the true fact , considering the cost of an l_e_d_ , we could just incorporate it anyway . marketing : so yeah . project manager : the l_e_d_s can be surprisingly bright now . marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . blue ones particularly . project manager : um . so user interface : plus that 's a nice wee design touch . marketing : yeah . project manager : by the sounds of it , with what we 're suggesting so far , your design um the user interface is still quite open , you could go for quite an interesting design . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : because we 're only going to have a very few key and you 've got you know a small lcd , joystick , e i think it leaves you open to a a potential wide range of shapes , something that can make it stand out slightly . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um if you could look into what we 've suggested so far , the feasibility of um small transmitter , um and such , maybe if an lcd screen requires too much power , or such . ebenezer , um , marketing expert marketing : well i can give you the frequency , what people what options people use most often , i guess that 's gon na be important in the ts defining the the software side of the interface , right . you want the stuff . project manager : yeah if you could maybe as well see what people think about the idea of this minimalist approach that we 've taken , where of a joystick to control the very basic functions , and then the idea of manipulating it like you would a mobile . marketing : okay . project manager : i do n't know how easy that will be within the time frame , marketing : okay . project manager : but could be something we could maybe look into . marketing : mm-hmm . sure . sure . project manager : okay . um any last comments that anybody would like to put forward ? anything that they think has been missed out . bit of a wide open question there of course . feel free to email me if you think that uh we 've screwed something up and wan na get it rectified as soon as possible . marketing : sure . 'kay . yeah . project manager : right . industrial designer : so i should just look at um the speaker , the speaker and an l_e_d_ . user interface : project manager : speaker and l_e_d_ for locating , um , industrial designer : and marketing : transmitter . industrial designer : yeah , and a transmitter . project manager : transmitter user interface : actually one one wee thought about that . um , if we do end up trying to market this to television manufacturers then the um then the transmitter could actually be built into the television . project manager : getting the external power source , yep , that 's quite true . um , and something that we can can easily be adopted at the last minute as well i 'd say . user interface : yeah . project manager : the electronics could be s either placed externally or internally , makes no difference to the final product of the actual remote control , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so that 's good . user interface : mm-hmm . you know i think project manager : 'kay . user interface : i mean if it w if we get a major television manufacturer to say y oh yeah we 'll have that , save us the bother , then that 's you know vast amounts of sales . quite quickly . project manager : oh , one thing that we 've almost not talked about at all , my apologies for that , um , user interface , we also need to maybe get the slogan in here , um it 's , industrial designer : fashion . project manager : i 'm pointing at my laptop , what in god real reaction , and such . so um industrial designer : the slogan is project manager : oh , sorry . industrial designer : yeah , the slogan 's we put the fashion in electronics , is n't it ? project manager : my apologies . no it could well be , i 've probably missed that . um , i think that 's l almost the last minute thing industrial designer : 's also look cool . project manager : we can just incorporate into the actual plastic on top . so i 'm not too concerned a that we have n't gone into depth about that . but it might be something you could consider when you 're thinking about shapes ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : in fact we might like to put a slogan on , and um possibly the two r_s to signify the company . rather than real reaction . user interface : mm-hmm . mm . yeah . i thought the uh the d the double arc could perhaps uh be the uh the enter button . project manager : sounds good . user interface : . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the incorporation of voice recognition when discussing details of button design and location function ? </s> project manager : okay . well . oh sorry , i 'm i 'm interrupting you . are you is it industrial designer : no , it 's finished , yeah . project manager : yeah ? okay . right . um , right we can probably skip that for now . so , we 've had some stuff put forward , um along with the new user requirements , um we 've had a lot of kind of input i 'd say so far . um i hear what the marketing expert 's saying about um voice activated control . however i 've got a couple of worries about that . the power required , um and the ability to the cost , it seems like for uh an embedded system , this could cause us issues . industrial designer : cost . mm . project manager : um for example you see that there 's fairly robust services on uh computers via uh via voice , i_b_m_ do um drag and dictate , but these require a lot of memory marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and usually um state quite advanced processor requirements . um voice activation could be an interesting idea but i think that our ind industrial designer would probably upon some research say that it 's maybe not feasible . marketing : 'kay . project manager : um that 's just my view right now , </s>
<s> summarize project manager 's opinions towards the idea of a joystick when discussing details of button design and location function . </s> project manager : however the idea of a joystick and then maybe an lcd which has been kind of put forward so far , it 's almost like having a small t_ not tv to say , but if you can control almost all of the functionality from the display , i do n't know how much power an lcd would take , but it might be quite low ? marketing : mm . i uh industrial designer : lcd on the remote just telling you what 's on , or uh , interactive lcd or project manager : well literally um if you can imagine the display maybe slightly larger than um those on a a mobile phone , something where you can read an an um fair amount of information , traverse maybe quite a few menus , if we maybe used mobile phones as a good example , they usually incorporate they have the keypad , and then evr all the other functionality is usually associated inside by traversing around . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that could be one possibility . um and then we could have like say the common buttons as you say , volume control , changing channels user interface : mm . i i was thinking that the remote the um sort of default functions for the joystick would be up and down for uh volume , left and right for channels . project manager : we industrial designer : do you think that people will get mixed up , like , they 'll be looking at this screen and that screen and then , you know , trying to get everything working , would it be a bit confusing ? user interface : um i think probably for the first couple of hours of using it industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> why did marketing recommend to specify the target market when discussing details of button design and location function ? </s> marketing : but i think we do n't have a specific audience , you know , like what is our target audience , what niche are niche are we trying to market and corner . you know , you know what i 'm saying , like , for whom is this intended ? everybody ? project manager : i think it could probably be aimed at most people who 've used a mobile . and that might be just another way of saying try to target most people . marketing : most people , yeah . project manager : um , if we are if we were to follow that avenue , we might be s you know um we 're kind of almost relying on their experience with a mobile phone i suppose . but that does cover a very large section of the people out there . marketing : mm-hmm . sure . i think that 's fair yeah . project manager : um , i mean i imagine as well that the actual lcd and maybe to a certain extent the joystick as well would be for the additional functionality . which maybe does n't get used as often , maybe it makes it easy for them to figure out how to um change the channels as in the frequencies and such for reprogramming it . </s>
<s> what was the meeting about ? </s> grad b : ok we 're on and we seem to be working . we did n't crash we 're not crashing anymore phd c : one , two , three , four , f grad b : and it really bothers me . professor a : yeah ? phd c : no crashing . phd g : i do . i crashed when i started this morning . grad b : you crashed crashed this morning ? i did not crash this morning . phd c : yeah ? professor a : oh ! well maybe it 's just , you know , how many t u u u u how many times you crash in a day . phd g : really ? yeah . maybe , yeah . professor a : first time first time in the day , you know . phd g : or maybe it 's once you 've done enough meetings { comment } it wo n't crash on you anymore . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : yeah . phd g : it 's a matter of experience . phd e : yeah . professor a : yeah . postdoc f : self - learning , yeah . professor a : that 's that 's great . phd g : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor a : do we have an agenda ? liz liz and andreas ca n't sh ca n't uh , ca n't come . grad b : i do . professor a : so , they wo n't be here . grad b : i have agenda and it 's all me . phd g : did grad b : cuz no one sent me anything else . phd g : did they send , uh , the messages to you about the meeting today ? grad b : i have no idea but i just got it a few minutes ago . right when you were in my office it arrived . phd g : oh . ok , cuz i checked my mail . i did n't have anything . grad b : so , does anyone have any a agenda items other than me ? i actually have one more also which is to talk about the digits . professor a : uh , right , so so i i was just gon na talk briefly about the nsf itr . phd c : mm - hmm . yeah . grad b : oh , great . professor a : uh , and then , you have i mean , i wo n't say much , but { comment } uh , but then , uh , you said wan na talk about digits ? grad b : i have a short thing about digits and then uh i wan na talk a little bit about naming conventions , although it 's unclear whether this is the right place to talk about it . so maybe just talk about it very briefly and take the details to the people who for whom it 's relevant . professor a : right . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : i could always say something about transcription . i 've been but but uh , well professor a : well if we yeah , we should n't add things in just to add things in . i 'm actually pretty busy today , postdoc f : yeah . professor a : so if we can { comment } we postdoc f : yeah , yeah , yeah . professor a : a short meeting would be fine . postdoc f : this does sound like we 're doing fine , yeah . that wo n't do . grad b : so the only thing i wan na say about digits is , we are pretty much done with the first test set . there are probably forms here and there that are marked as having been read that were n't really read . so i wo n't really know until i go through all the transcriber forms and extract out pieces that are in error . so i wa uh . two things . the first is what should we do about digits that were misread ? my opinion is , um , we should just throw them out completely , and have them read again by someone else . you know , the grouping is completely random , phd c : uh - huh . grad b : so it it 's perfectly fine to put a a group together again of errors and have them re - read , just to finish out the test set . postdoc f : oh ! by throw them out completely ? grad b : um , the other thing you could do is change the transcript to match what they really said . so those are those are the two options . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor a : but there 's often things where people do false starts . i know i 've done it , where i say say a grad b : what the transcribers did with that is if they did a correction , and they eventually did read the right string , { comment } you extract the right string . phd g : oh , you 're talking about where they completely read the wrong string and did n't correct it ? phd e : yeah . grad b : yeah . and did n't notice . which happens in a few places . phd e : yeah . phd c : yeah . grad b : so so postdoc f : well , and s and you 're talking string - wise , you 're not talking about the entire page ? grad b : correct . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : i get it . grad b : and so the the two options are change the transcript to match what they really said , but then but then the transcript is n't the aurora test set anymore . i do n't think that really matters because the conditions are so different . and that would be a little easier . phd g : well how many are how how often does that happen ? grad b : mmm , five or six times . phd g : oh , so it 's not very much . grad b : no , it 's not much at all . phd g : seems like we should just change the transcripts phd e : yeah . phd g : to match . professor a : yeah , it 's five or six times out of thousands ? phd c : yeah . grad b : four thousand . professor a : four thousand ? phd c : four thous ah ! four thousand . phd g : yeah , it 's professor a : yeah , i would , uh , tak do the easy way , phd g : yeah . professor a : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor a : it it 's kinda nice i mean , wh who knows what studies people will be doing on on speaker - dependent things and so i think having having it all phd c : yeah . professor a : the speakers who we had is is at least interesting . phd g : so you um , how many digits have been transcribed now ? grad b : four thousand lines . and each line is between one and about ten digits . phd g : four thousand lines ? grad b : i did n't i did n't compute the average . i think the average was around four or five . professor a : so that 's a couple hours of of , uh , speech , probably . grad b : yep . yep . professor a : which is a yeah reasonable reasonable test set . phd c : mm - hmm . phd g : mm - hmm . grad b : and , jane , i do have a set of forms which i think you have copies of somewhere . postdoc f : mm - hmm . yeah , true . grad b : oh you do ? oh ok , good , good . postdoc f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad b : yeah , i was just wond i thought i had had all of them back from you . and then the other thing is that , uh , the forms in front of us here that we 're gon na read later , were suggested by liz postdoc f : no , not yet . grad b : because she wanted to elicit some different prosodics from digits . and so , uh , i just wanted people to , take a quick look at the instructions phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : eight eight two two two nine . grad b : and the way it wa worked and see if it makes sense and if anyone has any comments on it . professor a : i see . and the decision here , uh , was to continue with uh the words rather than the the numerics . grad b : uh , yes , although we could switch it back . the problem was o and zero . although we could switch it back and tell them always to say `` zero `` or always to say `` o `` . postdoc f : oh professor a : or neither . phd c : yeah . professor a : but it 's just two thing ways that you can say it . grad b : mm - hmm . professor a : right ? grad b : sure . professor a : um um , phd e : yeah . professor a : that 's the only thought i have because if you t start talking about these , you know u tr she 's trying to get at natural groupings , but it there 's there 's nothing natural about reading numbers this way . grad b : right . professor a : i mean if you saw a telephone number you would never see it this way . grad b : the the problem also is she did want to stick with digits . i mean i 'm speaking for her since she 's not here . professor a : yeah . grad b : but , um , the other problem we were thinking about is if you just put the numerals , { comment } they might say forty - three instead of four three . phd e : yeah . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : well , if there 's space , though , between them . i mean , you can with when you space them out they do n't look like , uh , forty - three anymore . phd e : yeah . grad b : well , she and i were talking about it , professor a : yeah . grad b : and she felt that it 's very , very natural to do that sort of chunking . professor a : she 's right . it 's it it 's a different problem . i mean it 's a it 's a it 's an interesting problem i mean , we 've done stuff with numbers before , and yeah sometimes people if you say s `` three nine eight one `` sometimes people will say `` thirty - nine eighty - one `` or `` three hundred three hundred eighty - nine one `` , or i do n't think they 'd say that , phd c : yeah . professor a : but but th grad b : not very frequently professor a : no grad b : but , they certainly could . professor a : but yeah . uh , th thirty - eight ninety - one is probably how they 'd do it . grad b : so . i mean , this is something that liz and i spoke about professor a : but i see . grad b : and , since this was something that liz asked for specifically , i think we need to defer to her . professor a : mm - hmm . phd c : yeah . professor a : ok . well , we 're probably gon na be collecting meetings for a while and if we decide we still wan na do some digits later we might be able to do some different ver different versions , grad b : do something different , professor a : but this is the next suggestion , grad b : yeah . professor a : so . ok . ok , so uh e l i guess , let me , uh , get my my short thing out about the nsf . i sent this actually this is maybe a little side thing . um , i i sent to what i thought we had , uh , in some previous mail , as the right joint thing to send to , which was `` m mtg rcdr hyphen joint `` . grad b : it was . joint . yep . professor a : but then i got some sort of funny mail saying that the moderator was going to grad b : it 's that 's because they set the one up at uw that 's not on our side , that 's on the u - dub { comment } side . and so u - uw set it up as a moderated list . postdoc f : yeah . professor a : oh , ok . grad b : and , i have no idea whether it actually ever goes to anyone so you might just wan na mail to mari professor a : no no , th i got i got , uh , little excited notes from mari and jeff and so on , grad b : and professor a : so it 's grad b : ok , good . professor a : yeah . grad b : so the moderator actually did repost it . professor a : yeah . grad b : cuz i had sent one earlier actually the same thing happened to me i had sent one earlier . the message says , `` you 'll be informed `` and then i was never informed but i got replies from people indicating that they had gotten it , so . professor a : right . grad b : it 's just to prevent spam . professor a : i see . yeah so o ok . well , anyway , i guess everybody here are y are you are on that list , right ? so you got the note ? phd g : mm - hmm . professor a : yeah ? ok . phd g : yeah . professor a : um , so this was , uh , a , uh , proposal that we put in before on on more more higher level , uh , issues in meetings , from i guess higher level from my point of view . uh , and , uh , meeting mappings , and , uh so is i for it was a proposal for the itr program , uh , information technology research program 's part of national science foundation . it 's the second year of their doing , uh , these grants . they 're they 're a lot of them are some of them anyway , are larger larger grants than the usual , small nsf grants , and . so , they 're very competitive , and they have a first phase where you put in pre - proposals , and we we , uh , got through that . and so th the the next phase will be we 'll actually be doing a larger proposal . and i 'm i i hope to be doing very little of it . and uh , which was also true for the pre - proposal , so . uh , there 'll be bunch of people working on it . so . grad b : when 's when 's the full proposal due ? professor a : uh , i think april ninth , or something . so it 's about a month . um grad b : yep . and they said end of business day you could check on the reviewer forms , is that phd g : tomorrow . professor a : tomorrow . march second , i said . phd e : tomorrow ? grad b : i 've been a day off all week . phd c : tomorrow . phd e : yeah . grad b : i guess that 's a good thing cuz that way i got my papers done early . phd g : it would be interesting professor a : so that 's amazing you showed up at this meeting ! grad b : it is . it is actually quite amazing . phd e : yeah . phd g : it 'll be interesting to see the reviewer 's comments . professor a : yeah . yeah . my favorite is was when when when one reviewer says , uh , `` you know , this should be far more detailed `` , and the nex the next reviewer says , `` you know , there 's way too much detail `` . grad b : yep . or `` this is way too general `` , and the other reviewer says , `` this is way too specific `` . phd c : yeah . professor a : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor a : yeah . grad b : `` this is way too hard `` , `` way too easy `` . professor a : we 'll see . maybe there 'll be something useful . and and , uh grad b : well it sounded like they they the first gate was pretty easy . is that right ? that they did n't reject a lot of the pre - proposals ? professor a : do you know anything about the numbers ? grad b : no . just just th phd g : it 's just from his message it sounded like that . phd e : yeah . yeah . i said something , yeah . phd g : gary strong 's there was a sentence at the end of one of his paragraphs phd e : yeah . phd g : i professor a : i should go back and look . i did n't i do n't think that 's true . grad b : yeah , ok . phd g : mmm . he said the next phase 'll be very , competitive phd e : very very , phd g : because we did n't want to weed out much in the first phase . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor a : well we 'll have to see what the numbers are . grad b : or something like that , phd c : mm - hmm . professor a : yeah . but they they have to weed out enough so that they have enough reviewers . grad b : right . phd c : yeah . professor a : so , uh , you know , maybe they did n't r weed out as much as usual , but it 's it 's usually a pretty but it yeah . it 's it 's certainly not i 'm sure that it 's not down to one in two or something of what 's left . grad b : right . professor a : i 'm sure it 's , you know grad b : how how many awards are there , do you know ? professor a : well there 's different numbers of w awards for different size they have three size grants . this one there 's , um see the small ones are less than five hundred thousand total over three years and that they have a fair number of them . um , and the large ones are , uh , boy , i forget , i think , more than , uh , more than a million and a half , more than two million or something like that . and and we 're in the middle middle category . grad b : mm - hmm . professor a : i think we 're , uh , uh , i forget what it was . but , um uh , i do n't remember , but it 's pr probably along the li i i could be wrong on this yeah , but probably along the lines of fifteen or that they 'll fund , or twenty . i mean when they do you do you know how many they funded when they f in in chuck 's , that he got last year ? phd g : i do n't i do n't know . professor a : yeah . grad b : i thought it was smaller , that it was like four or five , was n't it ? professor a : well they fund phd g : i i 'm professor a : they phd g : i do n't remember . professor a : yeah . i mean grad b : uh it does n't matter , we 'll find out one way or another . professor a : yeah . i mean last time i think they just had two categories , small and big , grad b : mm - hmm . professor a : and this time they came up with a middle one , so it 'll there 'll be more of them that they fund than of the big . phd g : if we end up getting this , um , what will it mean to icsi in terms of , w wh where will the money go to , what would we be doing with it ? grad b : exactly what we say in the proposal . phd g : i i mean uh which part is icsi though . professor a : you know , it i none of it will go for those yachts that we 've talking about . phd g : i mean dang ! professor a : um , well , no , i mean it 's u it phd g : it 's just for the research to continue the research on the meeting recorder stuff ? professor a : it 's extending the research , right ? because the other phd g : yeah . grad b : yeah it 's go higher level stuff than we 've been talking about for meeting recorder . professor a : yeah . yeah the other things that we have , uh , been working on with , uh , the c with communicator uh , especially with the newer things with the more acoustically - oriented things are are are are lower level . and , this is dealing with , uh , mapping on the level of of , um , the conversation of mapping the conversations phd g : mm - hmm . right , right . professor a : to different kind of planes . so . um . but , um . so it 's all it 's all stuff that none none of us are doing right now , or none of us are funded for , so it 's so it 's it would be new . phd g : so assuming everybody 's completely busy now , it means we 're gon na hafta , hire more students , or , something ? professor a : well there 's evenings , and there 's weekends , and uh . yeah , there there would be there would be new hires , and and there there would be expansion , but , also , there 's always for everybody there 's there 's always things that are dropping off , grants that are ending , or other things that are ending , so , phd g : right . professor a : there 's there 's a continual need to to bring in new things . phd c : mm - hmm . phd g : right . professor a : but but there definitely would be new new new , uh , students , phd g : i see . professor a : and so forth , both at at uw and here . grad b : are there any students in your class who are expressing interest ? professor a : um , not clear yet . not clear yet . grad b : other than the one who 's already here . professor a : i mean we got we have yeah , two of them are two in the c there 're two in the class already here , and then and and , uh uh , then there 's a third who 's doing a project here , who , uh but he he he wo n't be in the country that long , grad b : mm - hmm . professor a : and , maybe another will end up . actually there is one other guy who 's looking that that 's that guy , uh , jeremy ? { comment } i think . phd c : mm - hmm . professor a : anyway , yeah that 's that 's all i was gon na say is that that that 's you know , that 's nice and we 're sorta preceding to the next step , and , it 'll mean some more work , uh , you know , in in march in getting the proposal out , and then , it 's , uh , you know we 'll see what happens . uh , the last one was that you had there , { comment } was about naming ? grad b : yep . it just , uh we 've been cutting up sound files , in for ba both digits and for , uh , doing recognition . and liz had some suggestions on naming and it just brought up the whole issue that has n't really been resolved about naming . so , uh , one thing she would like to have is for all the names to be the same length so that sorting is easier . um , phd c : yeah . grad b : same number of characters so that when you 're sorting filenames you can easily extract out bits and pieces that you want . and that 's easy enough to do . and i do n't think we have so many meetings that that 's a big deal just to change the names . so that means , uh , instead of calling it `` mr one `` , `` mr two `` , you 'd call it `` mrm zero zero one `` , `` mrm zero zero two `` , things like that . just so that they 're they 're all the same length . postdoc f : but , you know , when you , do things like that you can always as long as you have uh , you can always search from the beginning or the end of the string . grad b : the problem is that they 're a lot of fields . postdoc f : you know , so `` zero zero two `` grad b : alright , postdoc f : yeah . grad b : so we we have th we 're gon na have the speaker id , the session , uh uh , information on the microphones , postdoc f : yeah , well , your example was really grad b : information on the speak on the channels and all that . phd c : uh - huh . grad b : and so if each one of those is a fixed length , the sorting becomes a lot easier . grad d : she wanted to keep them the same lengths across different meetings also . so like , the nsa meeting lengths , { comment } all filenames are gon na be the same length as the meeting recorder meeting names ? grad b : yep . and as i said , the it 's we just do n't have that many that that 's a big deal . phd g : cuz of digits . grad b : and so , uh , um , at some point we have to sort of take a few days off , let the transcribers have a few days off , make sure no one 's touching the data and reorganize the file structures . and when we do that we can also rationalize some of the naming . postdoc f : i i would think though that the transcribe the transcripts themselves would n't need to have such lengthy names . grad b : right . postdoc f : so , i mean , you 're dealing with a different domain there , and with start and end times and all that , and channels and stuff , grad b : right . so the only thing that would change with that is just the directory names , postdoc f : so , it 's a different set . grad b : i would change them to match . so instead of being mr one it would be mrm zero zero one . but i do n't think that 's a big deal . postdoc f : fine . fine . grad b : so for for m the meetings we were thinking about three letters and three numbers for meeting i ds . uh , for speakers , m or f and then three numbers , for , uh and , uh , that also brings up the point that we have to start assembling a speaker database so that we get those links back and forth and keep it consistent . um , and then , uh , the microphone issues . we want some way of specifying , more than looking in the `` key `` file , what channel and what mike . what channel , what mike , and what broadcaster . or i do n't know how to s say it . so i mean with this one it 's this particular headset with this particular transmitter w as a wireless . phd c : yeah . grad b : and you know that one is a different headset and different channel . and so we just need some naming conventions on that . phd c : yeah . grad b : and , uh , phd c : uh - huh . grad b : that 's gon na become especially important once we start changing the microphone set - up . we have some new microphones that i 'd like to start trying out , um , once i test them . and then we 'll we 'll need to specify that somewhere . so i was just gon na do a fixed list of , uh , microphones and types . phd c : yeah . grad b : so , as i said phd g : that sounds good . phd c : yeah . professor a : um , since we have such a short agenda list i guess i wi i will ask how how are the transcriptions going ? yeah . postdoc f : the the news is that i 've i uh s so in s um so i 've switched to start my new sentence . i i switched to doing the channel - by - channel transcriptions to provide , uh , the uh , tighter time bins for partly for use in thilo 's work and also it 's of relevance to other people in the project . and , um , i discovered in the process a couple of of interesting things , which , um , one of them is that , um , it seems that there are time lags involved in doing this , uh , uh , using an interface that has so much more complexity to it . and i and i wanted to maybe ask , uh , chuck to help me with some of the questions of efficiency . maybe i was thinking maybe the best way to do this in the long run may be to give them single channel parts and then piece them together later . and i i have a script , i can piece them together . i mean , so it 's like , i i know that i can take them apart and put them together and i 'll end up with the representation which is where the real power of that interface is . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and it may be that it 's faster to transcribe a channel at a time with only one , uh , sound file and one , uh , set of of , uh , utterances to check through . phd c : yeah . professor a : i 'm a little confused . i thought that that one of the reason we thought we were so much faster than than , uh , the the other transcription , uh , thing was that that we were using the mixed file . postdoc f : oh , yes . ok . but , um , with the mixed , when you have an overlap , you only have a a choice of one start and end time for that entire overlap , which means that you 're not tightly , uh , tuning the individual parts th of that overlap by different speakers . professor a : mm - hmm . yeah . postdoc f : so someone may have only said two words in that entire big chunk of overlap . professor a : yeah . postdoc f : and for purposes of of , uh , things like well , so things like training the speech - nonspeech segmentation thing . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : th - it 's necessary to have it more tightly tuned than that . and w and w and , you know , is a it would be wonderful if , uh , it 's possible then to use that algorithm to more tightly tie in all the channels after that but , um , you know , i 've th the so , i i do n't know exactly where that 's going at this point . but m i was experimenting with doing this by hand and i really do think that it 's wise that we 've had them start the way we have with , uh , m y working off the mixed signal , um , having the interface that does n't require them to do the ti uh , the time bins for every single channel at a t uh , through the entire interaction . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : um , i did discover a couple other things by doing this though , and one of them is that , um , um , once in a while a backchannel will be overlooked by the transcriber . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : as you might expect , professor a : sure . postdoc f : because when it 's a b backchannel could well happen in a very densely populated overlap . and if we 're gon na study types of overlaps , which is what i wan na do , an analysis of that , then that really does require listening { comment } to every single channel all the way through the entire { comment } length for all the different speakers . now , for only four speakers , that 's not gon na be too much time , but if it 's nine speakers , then that i that is more time . so it 's li you know , kind of wondering and i think again it 's like this it 's really valuable that thilo 's working on the speech - nonspeech segmentation because maybe , um , we can close in on that wi without having to actually go to the time that it would take to listen to every single channel from start to finish through every single meeting . phd e : yeah , but those backchannels will always be a problem i think . uh especially if they 're really short and they 're not very loud and so it it can it it will always happen that also the automatic s detection system will miss some of them , so . postdoc f : ok . well so then then , maybe the answer is to , uh , listen especially densely in places of overlap , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : just so that they 're they 're not being overlooked because of that , and count on accuracy during the sparser phases . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : cuz there are large s spaces of the that 's a good point . there are large spaces where there 's no overlap at all . someone 's giving a presentation , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : or whatever . that 's that 's a good that 's a good thought . and , um , let 's see , there was one other thing i was gon na say . i i think it 's really interesting data to work with , i have to say , it 's very enjoyable . i really , not not a problem spending time with these data . really interesting . and not just because i 'm in there . no , it 's real interesting . professor a : uh , well i think it 's a short meeting . uh , you 're you 're you 're still in the midst of what you 're doing from what you described last time , i assume , phd c : is true . professor a : and phd c : i have n't results , eh , yet professor a : yeah . phd c : but , eh , i i 'm continue working with the mixed signal now , { comment } after the the last experience . professor a : yeah . yeah . phd c : and and i 'm tried to to , uh , adjust the to to improve , eh , an harmonicity , eh , detector that , eh , i i implement . professor a : yeah . phd c : but i have problem because , eh , i get , eh , eh , very much harmonics now . professor a : yeah . phd c : um , harmonic possi possible harmonics , uh , eh , and now i 'm i 'm i 'm trying to to find , eh , some kind of a , um of h of help , eh , using the energy to to distinguish between possible harmonics , and and other fre frequency peaks , that , eh , corres not harmonics . and , eh , i have to to talk with y with you , with the group , eh , about the instantaneous frequency , because i have , eh , an algorithm , and , i get , mmm , eh , t t results similar results , like , eh , the paper , eh , that i i am following . but , eh , the the rules , eh , that , eh , people used in the paper to to distinguish the harmonics , is does n't work well . professor a : mm - hmm . phd c : and i i i i not sure that i eh , the the way o to ob the way to obtain the the instantaneous frequency is right , or it 's it 's not right . eh , professor a : yeah . phd c : i have n't enough file feeling to to to distinguish what happened . professor a : yeah , i 'd like to talk with you about it . if if if , uh if i do n't have enough time and y you wan na discuss with someone else some someone else besides us that you might want to talk to , uh , might be stephane . phd c : yeah . i talked with stephane and and thilo professor a : yeah and and thilo , yeah . yeah , but phd c : they nnn they they { comment } they did n't phd e : i 'm not too experienced with harmonics professor a : i see . phd c : they think that { comment } the experience is not enough to phd e : and phd g : is is this the algorithm where you hypothesize a fundamental , and then get the energy for all the harmonics of that fundamental ? phd c : no , no it 's no no . no . phd g : and then hypothesize a new fundamental and get the energy professor a : yeah , that 's wh phd c : no . i i i i do n't proth process the the fundamental . i i , ehm i calculate the the phase derivate using the fft . professor a : yeah . phd c : and the algorithm said that , eh , if you if you change the the the , eh , nnn the x - the frequency `` x `` , eh , using the in the instantaneous frequency , you can find , eh , how , eh , in several frequencies that proba probably the the harmonics , eh , professor a : uh - huh . phd c : the errors of peaks the frequency peaks , eh , eh , move around these , eh eh frequency harmonic the frequency of the harmonic . and , eh , if you if you compare the the instantaneous frequency , eh , of the of the , eh , continuous , eh , eh , filters , that , eh that , eh , they used eh , to to to get , eh , the the instantaneous frequency , professor a : mm - hmm . phd c : it probably too , you can find , eh , that the instantaneous frequency for the continuous , eh , eh the output of the continuous filters are very near . and in my case i in equal with our signal , it does n't happened . professor a : yeah . i 'd hafta look at that and think about it . phd c : and professor a : it 's it 's it 's i have n't worked with that either so i 'm not sure the way the simple - minded way i suggested was what chuck was just saying , is that you could make a a sieve . you know , y you actually say that here is phd c : yeah . professor a : let 's let 's hypothesize that it 's this frequency or that frequency , and and , uh , maybe you maybe you could use some other cute methods to , uh , short cut it by by uh , making some guesses , phd c : yeah . professor a : but but uh uh uh , i would , uh i mean you could make some guesses from , uh from the auto - correlation or something but but then , given those guesses , try , um , uh , only looking at the energy at multiples of the of that frequency , and and see how much of the take the one that 's maximum . call that the phd c : yeah . professor a : but phd c : using the energy of the of the multiple of the frequency . professor a : of all the harmonics of that . yeah . phd c : yeah . phd g : do you hafta do some kind of , uh , low - pass filter before you do that ? phd c : i do n't use . phd g : or phd c : but , i i know many people use , eh , low - pass filter to to to get , eh , the pitch . professor a : no . to get the pitch , yes . phd c : i do n't use . to get the pitch , yes . phd e : to get the pitch , yeah . phd c : but the harmonic , no . phd g : but i but the harmonics are gon na be , uh , uh , i do n't know what the right word is . um , they 're gon na be dampened by the uh , vocal tract , right ? the response of the vocal tract . professor a : yeah ? phd c : yeah ? phd g : and so just looking at the energy on those at the harmonics , is that gon na ? professor a : well so the thing is that the this is for , uh , a , um phd g : i m what you 'd like to do is get rid of the effect of the vocal tract . right ? phd e : yeah . phd g : and just look at the at at the signal coming out of the glottis . professor a : yeah . uh , well , yeah that 'd be good . phd c : yeah . professor a : but , uh but i but but i do n't know that you need to grad b : open wide ! professor a : but i do n't need you know if you need to get rid of it . i mean that 'd that 'd be nice but i do n't know if it 's ess if it 's essential . um , i mean cuz i think the main thing is that , uh , you 're trying phd g : uh - huh . professor a : wha what are you doing this for ? you 're trying distinguish between the case where there is , uh where where there are more than uh , where there 's more than one speaker and the case where there 's only one speaker . grad b : sorry . professor a : so if there 's more than one speaker , um yeah i guess you could i guess yeah you 're so you 're not distinguished between voiced and unvoiced , so so , i if you do n't if you do n't care about that phd c : yeah . professor a : see , if you also wan na just determine if you also wan na determine whether it 's unvoiced , then i think you want to look look at high frequencies also , because the f the fact that there 's more energy in the high frequencies is gon na be an ob sort of obvious cue that it 's unvoiced . phd g : yeah . professor a : but , i i uh i mean i i but , um , other than that i guess as far as the one person versus two persons , it would be primarily a low frequency phenomenon . and if you looked at the low frequencies , yes the higher frequencies are gon na there 's gon na be a spectral slope . the higher frequencies will be lower energy . but so what . i mean that 's that 's w phd c : i will prepare for the next week eh , all my results about the harmonicity and will will try to come in and to discuss here , because , eh , i have n't enough feeling to to u many time to to understand what happened with the with , eh , so many peaks , eh , eh , and i i see the harmonics there many time but , eh , there are a lot of peaks , eh , that , eh , they are not harmonics . professor a : yeah . phd c : um , i have to discover what what is the the w the best way to to { comment } to { comment } c to use them professor a : well , but yeah i do n't think you can i mean you 're not gon na be able to look at every frame , so i mean i i mean i i really i i really thought that the best way to do it , and i 'm speaking with no experience on this particular point , but , my impression was that the best way to do it was however you you 've used instantaneous frequency , whatever . { comment } however you 've come up you with your candidates , you wan na see how much of the energy is in that phd c : yeah . yeah . professor a : as coppo as opposed to all of the all the total energy . and , um , if it 's voiced , i guess so so y i think maybe you do need a voiced - unvoiced determination too . but if it 's voiced , phd c : yeah . professor a : um , and the , uh e the fraction of the energy that 's in the harmonic sequence that you 're looking at is relatively low , then it should be then it 's more likely to be an overlap . phd c : is height . yeah . this this is the idea the idea i i i had to to compare the the ratio of the the energy of the harmonics with the eh , with the , eh , total energy in the spectrum and try to get a ratio to to distinguish between overlapping and speech . mmm . professor a : but you 're looking a y you 're looking at let 's take a second with this . uh , uh , you 're looking at f at the phase derivative , um , in in , uh , what domain ? i mean this is this is in in in in bands ? or or phd c : no , no , no . professor a : just just overall phd c : it 's a it 's a o i w the band the band is , eh , from zero to to four kilohertz . and i i ot i professor a : and you just take the instantaneous frequency ? phd c : yeah . i u m t i i used two m two method two methods . eh , one , eh , based on the f eh , ftt . to fft to to obtain the or to study the harmonics from from the spectrum directly , professor a : yeah . phd c : and to study the energy and the multiples of professor a : yeah . phd c : frequency . and another another algorithm i have is the in the instantaneous frequency , based on on on the fft to to to calculate the the phase derivate in the time . eh , uh n the d i mean i i have two two algorithms . professor a : right . phd c : but , eh , in m i in my opinion the the the instantaneous frequency , the the the behavior , eh , was th it was very interesting . because i i saw eh , how the spectrum concentrate , eh , around the the harmonic . but then when i apply the the rule , eh , of the in the the instantaneous frequency of the ne of the continuous filter in the the near filter , the the rule that , eh , people propose in the paper does n't work . and i do n't know why . professor a : but the instantaneous frequency , would n't that give you something more like the central frequency of the you know , of the where most of the energy is ? i mean , i think if you does i does it why would it correspond to pitch ? phd c : yeah . i i i not sure . i i i try to to professor a : yeah . phd c : when first i i calculate , eh , using the fft , postdoc f : di - digital camera . phd c : the the grad b : keep forgetting . phd c : i get the the spectrum , professor a : yeah . phd c : and i represent all the frequency . professor a : yeah . phd c : and when ou i obtained the instantaneous frequency . and i change the the the @ @ , using the instantaneous frequency , here . professor a : oh , so you scale you s you do a a scaling along that axis according to instantaneous phd c : i use yeah . professor a : it 's a kinda normalization . phd c : yeah . yeah . because when when eh , when i i i use these these frequency , eh , the range is different , and the resolution is different . professor a : yeah . phd c : and i observe more more or less , thing like this . and the paper said that , eh , these frequencies are probably , eh , harmonics . professor a : i see . huh . phd c : but , eh , they used , eh , a rule , eh , based in the in the because to to calculate the instantaneous frequency , they use a hanning window . professor a : yeah . phd c : and , they said that , eh , if these peak are , eh , harmonics , the f instantaneous frequency , of the contiguous , eh w eh eh , filters are very near , or have to be very near . but , eh , phh ! i do n't i i i i don i i and i do n't know what is the what is the distance . and i tried to to put different distance , eh , to put difference , eh eh , length of the window , eh , different front sieve , pfff ! and i i not sure what happened . professor a : ok , yeah well i i guess i 'm not following it enough . i 'll { comment } probably gon na hafta look at the paper , but which i 'm not gon na have time to do in the next few days , but but i 'm i 'm curious about it . phd c : yeah . professor a : um , uh , ok . postdoc f : i i did i it did occur to me that this is uh , the return to the transcription , that there 's one third thing i wanted to to ex raise as a to as an issue which is , um , how to handle breaths . so , i wanted to raise the question of whether people in speech recognition want to know where the breaths are . and the reason i ask the question is , um , aside from the fact that they 're obviously very time - consuming to encode , uh , the fact that there was some i had the indication from dan ellis in the email that i sent to you , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : and you know about , that in principle we might be able to , um , handle breaths by accessi by using cross - talk from the other things , be able that in principle , maybe we could get rid of them , so maybe and i was i i do n't know , i mean we had this an and i did n't could n't get back to you , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : but the question of whether it 'd be possible to eliminate them from the audio signal , which would be the ideal situation , professor a : i do n't know think it 'd be ideal . postdoc f : cuz phd g : uh - uh . professor a : we - see , we 're we 're dealing with real speech and we 're trying to have it be as real as possible phd e : yeah . professor a : and breaths are part of real speech . postdoc f : well , except that these are really truly i mean , ther there 's a segment in o the one i did n the first one that i did for i for this , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : where truly w we 're hearing you breathing like as if we 're you 're in our ear , you know , and it 's like it 's like professor a : yeah . postdoc f : i y i i mean , breath is natural , but not professor a : it is but it is if you record it . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : except that we 're we 're trying to mimic oh , i see what you 're saying . you 're saying that the pda application would have uh , have to cope with breath . professor a : yeah . postdoc f : but phd g : an - any application may have to . grad b : the p d a might not have to , phd e : no i grad b : but more people than just pda users are interested in this corpus . phd e : yeah . grad b : so so mean you 're right postdoc f : ok , then the then i have two questions . grad b : we could remove it , postdoc f : yeah ? grad b : but i i think we do n't wan na w remove it from the corpus , in terms of delivering it because the people will want it in there . professor a : yeah . if it gets postdoc f : ok , so maybe the question is notating it . yeah ? professor a : yeah i right . if if it gets in the way of what somebody is doing with it then you might wan na have some method which will allow you to block it , but you it 's real data . you do n't wan na b but you do n't postdoc f : ok , well professor a : if s you know , if there 's a little bit of noise out there , and somebody is is talking about something they 're doing , that 's part of what we accept as part of a real meeting , even and we have the f uh the uh the the fan and the in the projector up there , and , uh , this is it 's this is actual stuff that we we wan na work with . postdoc f : well this is in very interesting because i it basically has a i it shows very clearly the contrast between , uh , speech recognition research and discourse research because in in discourse and linguistic research , what counts is what 's communit communicative . phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and breath , you know , everyone breathes , they breathe all the time . and once in a while breath is communicative , but r very rarely . ok , so now , i had a discussion with chuck about the data structure professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and the idea is that the transcripts will that get stored as a master there 'll be a master transcript which has in it everything that 's needed for both of these uses . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and the one that 's used for speech recognition will be processed via scripts . you know , like , don 's been writing scripts professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and and , uh , to process it for the speech recognition side . discourse side will have this this side over he the we we 'll have a s ch sorry , not being very fluent here . but , um , this the discourse side will have a script which will stri strip away the things which are non - communicative . ok . so then the then let 's let 's think about the practicalities of how we get to that master copy with reference to breaths . so what i would r r what i would wonder is would it be possible to encode those automatically ? could we get a breath detector ? grad b : oh , just to save the transcribers time . postdoc f : well , i mean , you just have no idea . i mean , if you 're getting a breath several times every minute , grad b : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and just simply the keystrokes it takes to negotiate , to put the boundaries in , to to type it in , i it 's just a huge amount of time . grad b : mm - hmm . phd e : oops . professor a : wh - what phd c : yeah . postdoc f : and you wan na be sure it 's used , and you wan na be sure it 's done as efficiently as possible , and if it can be done automatically , that would be ideal . professor a : what if you put it in but did n't put the boundaries ? postdoc f : well , but professor a : so you just know it 's between these other things , postdoc f : well , ok . so now there 's there 's another another possibility professor a : right ? postdoc f : which is , um , the time boundaries could mark off words { comment } from nonwords . and that would be extremely time - effective , if that 's sufficient . professor a : yeah i mean i 'm think if it 's too if it 's too hard for us to annotate the breaths per se , we are gon na be building up models for these things and these things are somewhat self - aligning , so if so , we i i if we say there is some kind of a thing which we call a `` breath `` or a `` breath - in `` or `` breath - out `` , the models will learn that sort of thing . uh , so but you but you do want them to point them at some region where where the breaths really are . so postdoc f : ok . but that would maybe include a pause as well , phd g : well , there 's a there 's postdoc f : and that would n't be a problem to have it , uh , pause plus breath plus laugh plus sneeze ? professor a : yeah , i you know there is there 's this dynamic tension between between marking absolutely everything , as you know , and and and marking just a little bit and counting on the statistical methods . basically the more we can mark the better . but if there seems to be a lot of effort for a small amount of reward in some area , and this might be one like this although i i i 'd be interested to h get get input from liz and andreas on this to see if they cuz they 've - they 've got lots of experience with the breaths in in , uh , uh , their transcripts . grad b : they have lots of experience with breathing ? phd g : i professor a : actually well , yes they do , but we we can handle that without them here . but but but , uh , you were gon na say something about phd g : yeah , i i think , um , one possible way that we could handle it is that , um , you know , as the transcribers are going through , and if they get a hunk of speech that they 're gon na transcribe , u th they 're gon na transcribe it because there 's words in there or whatnot . if there 's a breath in there , they could transcribe that . phd e : yeah . yeah . postdoc f : that 's what they 've been doing . so , within an overlap segment , they they do this . phd g : right . but right . but if there 's a big hunk of speech , let 's say on morgan 's mike where he 's not talking at all , um , do n't do n't worry about that . phd e : yeah . phd g : so what we 're saying is , there 's no guarantee that , um so for the chunks that are transcribed , everything 's transcribed . but outside of those boundaries , there could have been stuff that was n't transcribed . so you just somebody ca n't rely on that data and say `` that 's perfectly clean data `` . uh do you see what i 'm saying ? postdoc f : yeah , you 're saying it 's uncharted territory . phd g : so i would say do n't tell them to transcribe anything that 's outside of a grouping of words . professor a : that sounds like a reasonable reasonable compromise . phd e : yeah , and that 's that that quite co corresponds to the way i i try to train the speech - nonspeech detector , as i really try to not to detect those breaths which are not within a speech chunk but with which are just in in a silence region . professor a : yeah . phd e : and they so they hopefully wo n't be marked in in those channel - specific files . professor a : u i i wanted to comment a little more just for clarification about this business about the different purposes . phd e : but phd g : yeah , so postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor a : see , in a in a way this is a really key point , that for speech recognition , uh , research , uh , um , e a it 's not just a minor part . in fact , the i think i would say the core thing that we 're trying to do is to recognize the actual , meaningful components in the midst of other things that are not meaningful . so it 's critical it 's not just incidental it 's critical for us to get these other components that are not meaningful . because that 's what we 're trying to pull the other out of . that 's our problem . if we had nothing postdoc f : yeah . professor a : if we had only linguistically - relevant things if if we only had changes in the spectrum that were associated with words , with different spectral components , and , uh , we we did n't have noise , we did n't have convolutional errors , we did n't have extraneous , uh , behaviors , and so forth , and moving your head and all these sorts of things , then , actually speech recognition i i is n't that bad right now . i mean you can you know it 's it 's the technology 's come along pretty well . phd c : yeah . professor a : the the the reason we still complain about it is because is when when you have more realistic conditions then then things fall apart . postdoc f : ok , fair enough . i guess , um , i uh , what i was wondering is what what at what level does the breathing aspect enter into the problem ? because if it were likely that a pda would be able to be built which would get rid of the breathing , so it would n't even have to be processed at thi at this computational le well , let me see , it 'd have to be computationally processed to get rid of it , but if there were , uh , like likely on the frontier , a good breath extractor then , um , and then you 'd have to professor a : but that 's a research question , you know ? and so postdoc f : yeah , well , see and that 's what i would n't know . professor a : that and we do n't either . i mean so so the thing is it 's it right now it 's just raw d it 's just data that we 're collecting , and so we do n't wan na presuppose that people will be able to get rid of particular degradations because that 's actually the research that we 're trying to feed . so , you know , an and maybe maybe in five years it 'll work really well , and and it 'll only mess - up ten percent of the time , but then we would still want to account for that ten percent , so . postdoc f : i guess there 's another aspect which is that as we 've improved our microphone technique , we have a lot less breath in the in the more recent , uh , recordings , so it 's in a way it 's an artifact that there 's so much on the on the earlier ones . professor a : uh - huh . i see . phd g : one of the um , just to add to this one of the ways that we will be able to get rid of breath is by having models for them . i mean , that 's what a lot of people do nowadays . professor a : right . grad b : right . phd c : yeah . phd g : and so in order to build the model you need to have some amount of it marked , so that you know where the boundaries are . professor a : yeah . phd g : so i mean , i do n't think we need to worry a lot about breaths that are happening outside of a , you know , conversation . we do n't have to go and search for them to to mark them at all , but , i mean , if they 're there while they 're transcribing some hunk of words , i 'd say put them in if possible . postdoc f : ok , and it 's also the fact that they differ a lot from one channel to the other because of the way the microphone 's adjusted . phd c : yeah . phd g : mm - hmm . professor a : should we do the digits ? grad b : yep . ok . </s>
<s> what problems and solutions were discussed about the recording data ? </s> grad b : so the only thing i wan na say about digits is , we are pretty much done with the first test set . there are probably forms here and there that are marked as having been read that were n't really read . so i wo n't really know until i go through all the transcriber forms and extract out pieces that are in error . so i wa uh . two things . the first is what should we do about digits that were misread ? my opinion is , um , we should just throw them out completely , and have them read again by someone else . you know , the grouping is completely random , phd c : uh - huh . grad b : so it it 's perfectly fine to put a a group together again of errors and have them re - read , just to finish out the test set . postdoc f : oh ! by throw them out completely ? grad b : um , the other thing you could do is change the transcript to match what they really said . so those are those are the two options . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor a : but there 's often things where people do false starts . i know i 've done it , where i say say a grad b : what the transcribers did with that is if they did a correction , and they eventually did read the right string , { comment } you extract the right string . phd g : oh , you 're talking about where they completely read the wrong string and did n't correct it ? phd e : yeah . grad b : yeah . and did n't notice . which happens in a few places . phd e : yeah . phd c : yeah . grad b : so so postdoc f : well , and s and you 're talking string - wise , you 're not talking about the entire page ? grad b : correct . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : i get it . grad b : and so the the two options are change the transcript to match what they really said , but then but then the transcript is n't the aurora test set anymore . i do n't think that really matters because the conditions are so different . and that would be a little easier . phd g : well how many are how how often does that happen ? grad b : mmm , five or six times . phd g : oh , so it 's not very much . grad b : no , it 's not much at all . phd g : seems like we should just change the transcripts phd e : yeah . phd g : to match . professor a : yeah , it 's five or six times out of thousands ? phd c : yeah . </s>
<s> what was the status of the recording data ? </s> grad b : so the only thing i wan na say about digits is , we are pretty much done with the first test set . there are probably forms here and there that are marked as having been read that were n't really read . so i wo n't really know until i go through all the transcriber forms and extract out pieces that are in error . so i wa uh . two things . the first is what should we do about digits that were misread ? my opinion is , um , we should just throw them out completely , and have them read again by someone else . you know , the grouping is completely random , phd c : uh - huh . grad b : so it it 's perfectly fine to put a a group together again of errors and have them re - read , just to finish out the test set . postdoc f : oh ! by throw them out completely ? grad b : um , the other thing you could do is change the transcript to match what they really said . so those are those are the two options . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor a : but there 's often things where people do false starts . i know i 've done it , where i say say a grad b : what the transcribers did with that is if they did a correction , and they eventually did read the right string , { comment } you extract the right string . phd g : oh , you 're talking about where they completely read the wrong string and did n't correct it ? phd e : yeah . grad b : yeah . and did n't notice . which happens in a few places . phd e : yeah . phd c : yeah . grad b : so so postdoc f : well , and s and you 're talking string - wise , you 're not talking about the entire page ? grad b : correct . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : i get it . grad b : and so the the two options are change the transcript to match what they really said , but then but then the transcript is n't the aurora test set anymore . i do n't think that really matters because the conditions are so different . and that would be a little easier . phd g : well how many are how how often does that happen ? grad b : mmm , five or six times . phd g : oh , so it 's not very much . grad b : no , it 's not much at all . phd g : seems like we should just change the transcripts phd e : yeah . phd g : to match . professor a : yeah , it 's five or six times out of thousands ? phd c : yeah . grad b : four thousand . professor a : four thousand ? phd c : four thous ah ! four thousand . phd g : yeah , it 's professor a : yeah , i would , uh , tak do the easy way , phd g : yeah . professor a : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor a : it it 's kinda nice i mean , wh who knows what studies people will be doing on on speaker - dependent things and so i think having having it all phd c : yeah . professor a : the speakers who we had is is at least interesting . phd g : so you um , how many digits have been transcribed now ? grad b : four thousand lines . and each line is between one and about ten digits . phd g : four thousand lines ? grad b : i did n't i did n't compute the average . i think the average was around four or five . professor a : so that 's a couple hours of of , uh , speech , probably . grad b : yep . yep . professor a : which is a yeah reasonable reasonable test set . phd c : mm - hmm . phd g : mm - hmm . grad b : and , jane , i do have a set of forms which i think you have copies of somewhere . postdoc f : mm - hmm . yeah , true . </s>
<s> what were the instructions for the transcribers ? </s> phd c : yeah . professor a : um , uh , ok . postdoc f : i i did i it did occur to me that this is uh , the return to the transcription , that there 's one third thing i wanted to to ex raise as a to as an issue which is , um , how to handle breaths . so , i wanted to raise the question of whether people in speech recognition want to know where the breaths are . and the reason i ask the question is , um , aside from the fact that they 're obviously very time - consuming to encode , uh , the fact that there was some i had the indication from dan ellis in the email that i sent to you , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : and you know about , that in principle we might be able to , um , handle breaths by accessi by using cross - talk from the other things , be able that in principle , maybe we could get rid of them , so maybe and i was i i do n't know , i mean we had this an and i did n't could n't get back to you , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : but the question of whether it 'd be possible to eliminate them from the audio signal , which would be the ideal situation , professor a : i do n't know think it 'd be ideal . postdoc f : cuz phd g : uh - uh . professor a : we - see , we 're we 're dealing with real speech and we 're trying to have it be as real as possible phd e : yeah . professor a : and breaths are part of real speech . postdoc f : well , except that these are really truly i mean , ther there 's a segment in o the one i did n the first one that i did for i for this , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : where truly w we 're hearing you breathing like as if we 're you 're in our ear , you know , and it 's like it 's like professor a : yeah . postdoc f : i y i i mean , breath is natural , but not professor a : it is but it is if you record it . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : except that we 're we 're trying to mimic oh , i see what you 're saying . you 're saying that the pda application would have uh , have to cope with breath . professor a : yeah . postdoc f : but phd g : an - any application may have to . grad b : the p d a might not have to , phd e : no i grad b : but more people than just pda users are interested in this corpus . phd e : yeah . grad b : so so mean you 're right postdoc f : ok , then the then i have two questions . grad b : we could remove it , postdoc f : yeah ? grad b : but i i think we do n't wan na w remove it from the corpus , in terms of delivering it because the people will want it in there . professor a : yeah . if it gets postdoc f : ok , so maybe the question is notating it . yeah ? professor a : yeah i right . if if it gets in the way of what somebody is doing with it then you might wan na have some method which will allow you to block it , but you it 's real data . you do n't wan na b but you do n't postdoc f : ok , well professor a : if s you know , if there 's a little bit of noise out there , and somebody is is talking about something they 're doing , that 's part of what we accept as part of a real meeting , even and we have the f uh the uh the the fan and the in the projector up there , and , uh , this is it 's this is actual stuff that we we wan na work with . postdoc f : well this is in very interesting because i it basically has a i it shows very clearly the contrast between , uh , speech recognition research and discourse research because in in discourse and linguistic research , what counts is what 's communit communicative . phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and breath , you know , everyone breathes , they breathe all the time . and once in a while breath is communicative , but r very rarely . ok , so now , i had a discussion with chuck about the data structure professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and the idea is that the transcripts will that get stored as a master there 'll be a master transcript which has in it everything that 's needed for both of these uses . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and the one that 's used for speech recognition will be processed via scripts . you know , like , don 's been writing scripts professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and and , uh , to process it for the speech recognition side . discourse side will have this this side over he the we we 'll have a s ch sorry , not being very fluent here . but , um , this the discourse side will have a script which will stri strip away the things which are non - communicative . ok . so then the then let 's let 's think about the practicalities of how we get to that master copy with reference to breaths . so what i would r r what i would wonder is would it be possible to encode those automatically ? could we get a breath detector ? grad b : oh , just to save the transcribers time . postdoc f : well , i mean , you just have no idea . i mean , if you 're getting a breath several times every minute , grad b : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and just simply the keystrokes it takes to negotiate , to put the boundaries in , to to type it in , i it 's just a huge amount of time . grad b : mm - hmm . phd e : oops . professor a : wh - what phd c : yeah . postdoc f : and you wan na be sure it 's used , and you wan na be sure it 's done as efficiently as possible , and if it can be done automatically , that would be ideal . professor a : what if you put it in but did n't put the boundaries ? postdoc f : well , but professor a : so you just know it 's between these other things , postdoc f : well , ok . so now there 's there 's another another possibility professor a : right ? postdoc f : which is , um , the time boundaries could mark off words { comment } from nonwords . and that would be extremely time - effective , if that 's sufficient . professor a : yeah i mean i 'm think if it 's too if it 's too hard for us to annotate the breaths per se , we are gon na be building up models for these things and these things are somewhat self - aligning , so if so , we i i if we say there is some kind of a thing which we call a `` breath `` or a `` breath - in `` or `` breath - out `` , the models will learn that sort of thing . uh , so but you but you do want them to point them at some region where where the breaths really are . so postdoc f : ok . but that would maybe include a pause as well , phd g : well , there 's a there 's postdoc f : and that would n't be a problem to have it , uh , pause plus breath plus laugh plus sneeze ? professor a : yeah , i you know there is there 's this dynamic tension between between marking absolutely everything , as you know , and and and marking just a little bit and counting on the statistical methods . basically the more we can mark the better . but if there seems to be a lot of effort for a small amount of reward in some area , and this might be one like this although i i i 'd be interested to h get get input from liz and andreas on this to see if they cuz they 've - they 've got lots of experience with the breaths in in , uh , uh , their transcripts . grad b : they have lots of experience with breathing ? phd g : i professor a : actually well , yes they do , but we we can handle that without them here . but but but , uh , you were gon na say something about phd g : yeah , i i think , um , one possible way that we could handle it is that , um , you know , as the transcribers are going through , and if they get a hunk of speech that they 're gon na transcribe , u th they 're gon na transcribe it because there 's words in there or whatnot . if there 's a breath in there , they could transcribe that . phd e : yeah . yeah . postdoc f : that 's what they 've been doing . so , within an overlap segment , they they do this . phd g : right . but right . but if there 's a big hunk of speech , let 's say on morgan 's mike where he 's not talking at all , um , do n't do n't worry about that . phd e : yeah . phd g : so what we 're saying is , there 's no guarantee that , um so for the chunks that are transcribed , everything 's transcribed . but outside of those boundaries , there could have been stuff that was n't transcribed . so you just somebody ca n't rely on that data and say `` that 's perfectly clean data `` . uh do you see what i 'm saying ? </s>
<s> what problems were encountered with transcriptions ? </s> postdoc f : and w and w and , you know , is a it would be wonderful if , uh , it 's possible then to use that algorithm to more tightly tie in all the channels after that but , um , you know , i 've th the so , i i do n't know exactly where that 's going at this point . but m i was experimenting with doing this by hand and i really do think that it 's wise that we 've had them start the way we have with , uh , m y working off the mixed signal , um , having the interface that does n't require them to do the ti uh , the time bins for every single channel at a t uh , through the entire interaction . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : um , i did discover a couple other things by doing this though , and one of them is that , um , um , once in a while a backchannel will be overlooked by the transcriber . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : as you might expect , professor a : sure . postdoc f : because when it 's a b backchannel could well happen in a very densely populated overlap . and if we 're gon na study types of overlaps , which is what i wan na do , an analysis of that , then that really does require listening { comment } to every single channel all the way through the entire { comment } length for all the different speakers . now , for only four speakers , that 's not gon na be too much time , but if it 's nine speakers , then that i that is more time . so it 's li you know , kind of wondering and i think again it 's like this it 's really valuable that thilo 's working on the speech - nonspeech segmentation because maybe , um , we can close in on that wi without having to actually go to the time that it would take to listen to every single channel from start to finish through every single meeting . phd e : yeah , but those backchannels will always be a problem i think . uh especially if they 're really short and they 're not very loud and so it it can it it will always happen that also the automatic s detection system will miss some of them , so . postdoc f : ok . well so then then , maybe the answer is to , uh , listen especially densely in places of overlap , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : just so that they 're they 're not being overlooked because of that , and count on accuracy during the sparser phases . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : cuz there are large s spaces of the that 's a good point . there are large spaces where there 's no overlap at all . someone 's giving a presentation , phd e : yeah . postdoc f : or whatever . that 's that 's a good that 's a good thought . and , um , let 's see , there was one other thing i was gon na say . i i think it 's really interesting data to work with , i have to say , it 's very enjoyable . i really , not not a problem spending time with these data . really interesting . and not just because i 'm in there . no , it 's real interesting . professor a : uh , well i think it 's a short meeting . uh , you 're you 're you 're still in the midst of what you 're doing from what you described last time , i assume , phd c : is true . professor a : and phd c : i have n't results , eh , yet professor a : yeah . phd c : but , eh , i i 'm continue working with the mixed signal now , { comment } after the the last experience . professor a : yeah . yeah . phd c : and and i 'm tried to to , uh , adjust the to to improve , eh , an harmonicity , eh , detector that , eh , i i implement . professor a : yeah . phd c : but i have problem because , eh , i get , eh , eh , very much harmonics now . professor a : yeah . phd c : um , harmonic possi possible harmonics , uh , eh , and now i 'm i 'm i 'm trying to to find , eh , some kind of a , um of h of help , eh , using the energy to to distinguish between possible harmonics , and and other fre frequency peaks , that , eh , corres not harmonics . and , eh , i have to to talk with y with you , with the group , eh , about the instantaneous frequency , because i have , eh , an algorithm , and , i get , mmm , eh , t t results similar results , like , eh , the paper , eh , that i i am following . but , eh , the the rules , eh , that , eh , people used in the paper to to distinguish the harmonics , is does n't work well . professor a : mm - hmm . phd c : and i i i i not sure that i eh , the the way o to ob the way to obtain the the instantaneous frequency is right , or it 's it 's not right . eh , professor a : yeah . phd c : i have n't enough file feeling to to to distinguish what happened . professor a : yeah , i 'd like to talk with you about it . if if if , uh if i do n't have enough time and y you wan na discuss with someone else some someone else besides us that you might want to talk to , uh , might be stephane . phd c : yeah . i talked with stephane and and thilo professor a : yeah and and thilo , yeah . yeah , but phd c : they nnn they they { comment } they did n't phd e : i 'm not too experienced with harmonics professor a : i see . phd c : they think that { comment } the experience is not enough to phd e : and phd g : is is this the algorithm where you hypothesize a fundamental , and then get the energy for all the harmonics of that fundamental ? phd c : no , no it 's no no . no . phd g : and then hypothesize a new fundamental and get the energy professor a : yeah , that 's wh phd c : no . i i i i do n't proth process the the fundamental . i i , ehm i calculate the the phase derivate using the fft . professor a : yeah . phd c : and the algorithm said that , eh , if you if you change the the the , eh , nnn the x - the frequency `` x `` , eh , using the in the instantaneous frequency , you can find , eh , how , eh , in several frequencies that proba probably the the harmonics , eh , professor a : uh - huh . phd c : the errors of peaks the frequency peaks , eh , eh , move around these , eh eh frequency harmonic the frequency of the harmonic . and , eh , if you if you compare the the instantaneous frequency , eh , of the of the , eh , continuous , eh , eh , filters , that , eh that , eh , they used eh , to to to get , eh , the the instantaneous frequency , professor a : mm - hmm . phd c : it probably too , you can find , eh , that the instantaneous frequency for the continuous , eh , eh the output of the continuous filters are very near . and in my case i in equal with our signal , it does n't happened . professor a : yeah . i 'd hafta look at that and think about it . phd c : and professor a : it 's it 's it 's i have n't worked with that either so i 'm not sure the way the simple - minded way i suggested was what chuck was just saying , is that you could make a a sieve . you know , y you actually say that here is phd c : yeah . professor a : let 's let 's hypothesize that it 's this frequency or that frequency , and and , uh , maybe you maybe you could use some other cute methods to , uh , short cut it by by uh , making some guesses , phd c : yeah . professor a : but but uh uh uh , i would , uh i mean you could make some guesses from , uh from the auto - correlation or something but but then , given those guesses , try , um , uh , only looking at the energy at multiples of the of that frequency , and and see how much of the take the one that 's maximum . call that the phd c : yeah . professor a : but phd c : using the energy of the of the multiple of the frequency . professor a : of all the harmonics of that . yeah . phd c : yeah . phd g : do you hafta do some kind of , uh , low - pass filter before you do that ? phd c : i do n't use . phd g : or phd c : but , i i know many people use , eh , low - pass filter to to to get , eh , the pitch . professor a : no . to get the pitch , yes . phd c : i do n't use . to get the pitch , yes . phd e : to get the pitch , yeah . phd c : but the harmonic , no . phd g : but i but the harmonics are gon na be , uh , uh , i do n't know what the right word is . um , they 're gon na be dampened by the uh , vocal tract , right ? the response of the vocal tract . professor a : yeah ? phd c : yeah ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> user interface : okay . project manager : so i see all everybody 's here , 'kay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and we can start meeting . user interface : okay . marketing : what 's the agenda for this meeting ? project manager : the i will uh present here agenda with with with with slides to you . marketing : okay . project manager : um as you can see here . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : perfect . project manager : so first uh just to mention i will take notes uh of this meeting marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and uh i will try to work them out and give them to you . i 've also made notes of the previous meeting and um i was about to send them you but then uh i had to go to this uh meeting so you will get them too uh marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : next . industrial designer : so y you are the secretary also . project manager : yes . indeed . industrial designer : right ? okay . project manager : then i hope you all have uh worked out some some uh some some presentations about uh about well you the the task given to you in the previous meeting . industrial designer : perfectly yeah yeah of course uh-huh . project manager : um . w we will uh in a minute we will uh start with them . um , we will see in which order we will handle them of . um then i will uh bring in some some some new requirements i i got uh from the uh account manager , i try to work them out , they were quite abstract , and we can have maybe have com some discussion about it . uh um about the functions marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and well in this meeting we should really try to reach a decision about the target group and the functionality of the industrial designer : you mean the social target group who we wants to target ? project manager : yes i mean well yes w who are we going to uh to well to sell this , industrial designer : oh the customers , okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : the customers , indeed yes . think that 's that 's important matter . marketing : that 's the big question yeah . project manager : uh . so and then uh we will close this meeting uh user interface : project manager : and after this meeting we 'll uh we 'll have a lunch . good . um . maybe um why uh anna can you c do you have a presentations ? marketing : no , i do n't . project manager : you do n't have presentation ? marketing : i was n't . no . project manager : uh you want a table to to uh marketing : i c i can talk about it but i have no slides or anything . project manager : yes yes maybe maybe you can uh can just talk about it or maybe you can use the whiteboard if necessary um . marketing : mm-hmm . well i 've just been um presented with some research we 've done in a small focus group so , a hundred people , just asked them about their remote control usage habits and what they want in a remote control . um . it 's probably ca n't email this to you , i 've just got a web page with some data on it . um basically it 's saying that users generally dislike the look and feel of their remote controls . um seventy five u seventy five percent of users find most remote controls ugly . um . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : eighty percent of users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy . um . current remote controls do not match well the operating behaviour of the user . uh seventy five percent of users said they zap a lot , so they use their remote control quite frequently while they 're watching television . uh . fifty percent of users say that they only use ten percent of the buttons , so they 've got a remote control with a lot of functionality but really most of the time they only use a small part of that . project manager : do you do you have this uh information on the web page you said ? marketing : i have an a web page yes . project manager : yes , mayb maybe you can can send an email to me later uh . uh about this . marketing : yep . yep , sure . mm-hmm . so basically um there 's a breakdown of how much they use the different functions on a rem remote control . um , power and volume selection are only used a few times within this uh per hour . um , channel selection is used a hundred and sixty eight times um and then there 's things like channel settings , audio settings , which are only used very infrequently . um . teletext is used um fourteen times in the hour , so it is used but not nearly as much as the channel selection is used . um . an interesting thing that this report has brought up is that um fifty fifty percent of users report that the remote control gets lost a lot of the time in the room , so some way of some way of locating the remote control would be very useful to a lot of users . um . project manager : yes yes , i have that too . industrial designer : marketing : thirty four percent said it takes too long to learn to use a remote control , they want something that 's easier to use straight away , more intuitive perhaps . industrial designer : it 's it 's easy to learn or how do you say it 's marketing : thirty four percent said it took too much time to learn to use a new one . yep . industrial designer : okay too much time to learn . okay . marketing : um . and thirty twenty six percent said remote controls are bad for r_s_i_ . industrial designer : not enough marketing : i do n't know how we 'd go about combating that . user interface : . what do you mean there ? marketing : for r_s_i_ ? respet repetitive strain injury . user interface : okay . marketing : so . but project manager : mm . they think that or do their doctor the doctor says ? but it 's it 's the opinion of the uh of the users huh ? marketing : yeah . that 's what the report says yeah . project manager : so mm . marketing : um and then it 's got a demographic breakdown on industrial designer : maybe y y you can not put this webpage online on the marketing : uh i should be able to actually , if i email it to you now . user interface : you can disconnect it there project manager : you can maybe just just marketing : oh no , yeah . industrial designer : ah it 's it okay it 's a webpage on the c_ it 's a file marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : um , s hang on . industrial designer : o otherwise you yeah . you can connect this one . user interface : then you can connect this one or this one yeah . project manager : user interface : all to your computer . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well . industrial designer : so these are important numbers that matthew and i need to take into account for our functional um user interface : oh yeah . marketing : oh i need to muck around with this . it 's probably easier if you put it on yours and then i 'll just email it to you . it 's just a web link . industrial designer : yeah user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah these numbers have have to be have to be taken into account for the uh both yeah user interface and functional design . user interface : hmm . yeah . marketing : one thing it goes on to talk about , which is interesting , is the hang on a minute . industrial designer : because if there are many numbers and we need to select to to constraint uh our design based on what is more important . marketing : mm-hmm . yep . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um , one thing is interesting is talking about um speech recognition in a remote control . industrial designer : speech recognition in marketing : and who would pay more for that and whether people would find it useful . project manager : d do you have numbers o o on that ? industrial designer : ah okay . marketing : yes , i 'll just get this up . industrial designer : so that we do n't do we not need any button on the remote control marketing : well potentially yeah , um project manager : user interface : industrial designer : it would be all based on speech . marketing : i think even for interesti industrial designer : okay . interesting idea . marketing : yeah i think that would not work so well . you wan na have both options . industrial designer : okay . project manager : well it would it would be a solution for uh when your remote control is lost , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i mean when it has speech recognition then uh i then it does n't matter where it is , my well it 's we should be in range , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or maybe it can respond and produce sound , so say where it is . but the these are all quite fancy features industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i 'm not sure whether we will we can make this for for twelve euro fi and fifty cents . user interface : well it would be f marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : no you ca n't . industrial designer : and we do n't know where the state of the art of speech recognition is , maybe you know ? user interface : oh . well , it depends you know like there is uh it 's a very small vocabulary that you want to do the operations like you want to say on , off , one , two , twenty three , industrial designer : but it 's quite noisy if there is the tv uh shouting . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's it 's going to be li project manager : that that that that 's mm . user interface : it 's not going to be s so easy but u usually it 's going to be more of an isolated case project manager : do you have some more important facts user interface : but it 's but i do n't know with twenty fi marketing : um project manager : or can we go to the next presentation ? industrial designer : okay . so marketing : well industrial designer : you had to to to summarise maybe the marketing : this is now talking about um who would pay for speech recognition in a remote control , who would pay more for it , um . ninety percent of the fifteen to twenty five year old market said that they would pay more , it goes down from there , seventy six percent for twenty five to thirty five , thirty five percent for thirty five to forty five , um twenty two percent for forty five to fifty five and then eight percent for fifty five to sixty five . user interface : okay it 's uh decline . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : but we sh project manager : mm-hmm . decline with age , mm . marketing : yeah , it really depends where we 're gon na be targeting this product , um , user interface : project manager : mm . marketing : which we 'll be talking about later i think . project manager : yes . we will talk about it later . marketing : did you get the email ? project manager : okay . marketing : yep , that one . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : just follow that link . industrial designer : i thi you us marketing : it 'll be in a different window , yep . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : that 's left that one . project manager : industrial designer : okay perfect . .. . marketing : mm . so that 's the figure that i was just talking about there , with the different demographics . user interface : okay . marketing : another thing it 's talking about there is the lcd screen but there 's no figures apparently on that . project manager : mm . okay . um industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : uh maybe uh mael c c can you give uh uh your presentation uh ? industrial designer : yeah . mm i okay i stay project manager : this is user interface : now you can move i think yeah . project manager : mm-hmm , y y you can move , uh . industrial designer : i can move as far as maybe i take your chair ? project manager : yes . you can you can sa take my chair . industrial designer : i okay . user interface : it 's a channel selection , a module , this and this function , marketing : sorry ? oh . user interface : go to the . yeah . industrial designer : so i think as everybody knows uh i 'm the uh industrial designer . and uh in this presentation uh this group presentation um is gon na focus on the working design of the the remote control . um i 'd like first to give a quick a very simple introduction , how does it work , so that everybody knows even if you do n't have a very uh technical background uh what is it because i think in the product it is important . marketing : mm . industrial designer : so basically um the basic function of a remote control is to send uh messages to another system that is fixed . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and so an energy source feeds an integrated circuit , the chip , that can compose messages , usually uh through a um infrared bit marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh the user interface controls the chip and accordingly the the messages , alright . so my method for um designing the yeah the work design uh yeah first the the main point is that i would wish to to make a really functional product . i would prefer to have very functional um capabilities rather than fancy stuff that in fact is not used and does n't work . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so for that yeah as it 's important to take into account the user requirements from the marketing uh expert uh anna marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and um w to to we should agree on what are the technical functions uh for this remote control and i show you the the working design . so um basically uh here is a really large view of what we want . uh we want an on off button , it can be uh it 's simple but it 's it 's important , and also uh the to both channels as well as other buttons that come after , right . so the components i quickly draw here , is that in this part you have the remote control the the sender and on the other part the receiver so that 's my method is um will be to well my aim would be to uh design the and choose the chips and the infrared um components to build the remote control marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so of course we need energy sources and uh uh the receiver a a receiver . this is very quick uh design , uh you stop me or interrupt me if uh you do n't agree on it on that . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and um so what i have found and after a lot of work actually i i draw this i draw for you this uh schema marketing : well . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : that can be maybe too technical for you but is very important for me marketing : you drew it a long time ago ? industrial designer : you know . project manager : is huh marketing : ninety one . industrial designer : and uh that 's it so i wo n't go into details about that project manager : overwhelming . marketing : industrial designer : but uh these are my preferences to use uh that kind of components . project manager : and and why do you want these kind of component ? industrial designer : so . so project manager : i mean , are they cheap , or are they uh reliable ? what were your industrial designer : found and yeah th you have always a compromise with uh reliability and uh i if it 's expensive , but uh this one was not this one also really uh reliable um so yeah that 's it for the working design , uh i hope you get clearer view on uh what what a remote control is uh in terms of uh technical components project manager : yes . it it it 's more clear now i think . industrial designer : but maybe yeah project manager : so user interface : but is it uh can you just buy it on the market and f plug it in or you want to ma industrial designer : no no no no we we will uh this is a preference but we can always change uh project manager : mm-hmm . what i w what i was thinking about uh the the the schema uh about uh the sender and the receiver , i mean can you can you get back to it ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah uh , the receiver is of course already in the television and we are not uh able to change it . so we we must adapt to the to the receiver . industrial designer : of course yeah . project manager : i i suppose there is a standard uh way of communicating to televisions uh . industrial designer : yeah . we will use uh infrared protocol uh using yeah infrared and uh and of course we need to adapt to that protocol that already exists project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and but we what we can do is uh uh adapting the the chips inside uh to the best uh chips and uh infrared bubbles . project manager : mm . mm . mm . mm . yes . okay . industrial designer : um . okay . project manager : thank you . user interface : well it to du it 's just you had to change the frequencies . industrial designer : the frequencies ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah . of course yeah user interface : but you should be careful , industrial designer : in the chip you have it yeah . user interface : people are sometime becoming problem , like a guy has recently designed a remote uh uh uh which could switch off any other tvs , so basically through all the things . industrial designer : that can control o other things . yeah . user interface : so maybe we should think of marketing : industrial designer : of course yeah we should take that into account marketing : that 's handy . project manager : yeah yes marketing : so if the b tv in the next apartment 's really loud , you can just turn it off . project manager : i i i user interface : yeah . industrial designer : in the uh user interface : yeah so you can just go on the street and then switch off everyone 's tv and you can just walk away industrial designer : user interface : you do n't have to be near the tv at all . marketing : yeah . i like that idea . project manager : i i feel i i i think m mael will will consider this uh th these things . user interface : project manager : maybe maybe we can go to to your presentation uh matthew . i i i assume you were finished here . user interface : so . project manager : uh okay . user interface : okay . so i can take i think mine now there . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay so voila . marketing : user interface : hmm i can take mine it 's okay , voila , mm so mm . okay . project manager : oh . i uh , sorry ? i know where it is . user interface : it 's on the desktop . project manager : it 's uh user interface : technical function . okay . project manager : it 's uh user interface : like so . project manager : user interface : well . so um i 'm going to talk a little bit about the technical function so wha what actually it 's about what is the user going to do , i think my last presented what is going inside , marketing : mm-hmm . yep . user interface : so what 's the user is going to see from the outside and how he is going to use it . so well the approach is that uh basically the idea is to send a message to the tv set , as mael has pointed , and it will be decoded by the tv and usually we it is easier to have uh keys or buttons with which people can uh press and then um changing a button will basically uh change the message which is being sent to the tv and uh um industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : a and basically it sends an internal signal and decoded by the receiver . so p as um anna has said that this ki people are interested in things which are you do n't need to k press the keys , people are can have a speech recognition but this is uh s a question which will we have to see later . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but in the present scenario is that you have certain keys and you press it like your mobile phone , and it sends a message to the tv . and um so generally mm i do n't have some figures sorry but um so there are two kinds of uh remote if you popularly in the household , actually so you have a standard tv remote where you have just a on , off button and play , uh volume change and uh keys for the number and more than one digit option . and if you see for example righ right now uh uh even the one uh on more than one digit option is for two digit channel which is like ninety nine , but tomorrow you might have one fifty channels you know to browse or two hundred channels to browse who knows , but uh uh . then there is uh this is the standard one with without any fancy thing you know like i it does n't have teletext option , it can without any , it 's a very simple thing , um which which you can vouch . and then you have uh what 's the v video remote file which is like usually it has almost all the keys over there and , but it then it has other options like stop uh and then you play the movie or uh or fo fast forward the movie or something like that so i it has those marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so these are the standard uh commonly found remote controls in the uh market . and then whi which is generally used by the people . and then well personal preferences i would uh basically think of having a kind of aim for the next generation thing where the we could have both the uh the f a tv and the remote video remote control because uh some of the keys in the video 's remote control and the tv they could be integrated together so that uh we could um aim for the like in the f coming future um that type of uh applications with marketing : okay . how would that work ? so you 've got say maybe a v_c_r_ and a tv which are separate , user interface : marketing : so you on my one at home i 've got a v_c_r_ remote which then changes the channel on the v_c_r_ and does n't do anything on the tv , user interface : yeah . marketing : so is it gon na be like a switch on the remote that says t use the tv or use the v_c_r_ ? user interface : yeah . marketing : or does it know which one you want to use ? user interface : um actually um you could you could think of um having s a y you can have a key which could tell y it could go to the video thing marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : but um uh yo you you you still ca n't um in that case when it you use that the function should be able to take up the v_c_r_ option marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and you could play it or you can also think about having like um i in a few days you will be ha in in few ye coming years you might even have a system where you have a separate uh sitting setup box marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh you have uh um something like uh uh you do you do you suppose you are not able to watch some programme and actually it downloading all the time for you marketing : mm-hmm . mm . user interface : and uh you can just you know uh when you come back you could just switch on that thing and uh watch a program . in that case you want to browse faster , browse slow , you want to have those kind of functionalities . project manager : mm mm mm mm mm . industrial designer : these are kind of next generation functionalities . user interface : it 's the next generation thing , project manager : mm yes , user interface : but it is going to come in couple of years . project manager : but i think it 's i i it 's already there , user interface : it 's goi project manager : i mean the hard disk uh recorders uh i i 've seen them in the shop . user interface : yeah it 's yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . so industrial designer : mm 'kay . user interface : it 's going to record your things and you and you you need basically the functionalities what you need in both uh uh video as well as in the standard tv thing . marketing : mm . yeah . that 's fair enough . mm . but i do n't think we 're trying to make a universal remote here . that 's , user interface : no no we are not making a universal remote , marketing : yeah . user interface : we are just looking at uh giving a scenario , i have a tv and tomorrow i am going to have set up box which is going to sit there and uh it 's going to do that job for me . marketing : mm . because y project manager : w w w w we need to decide on on on on in how far we go to in this . marketing : mm-hmm . mm . project manager : mean , you can go pretty far i f i think with with with functions and possible uh future p uh prospects marketing : mm . yep . user interface : yeah . so project manager : but it 's good to keep in mind . user interface : okay so that p ends my presentation . project manager : mm . very well . user interface : well . so we can always discuss about it for example uh the presently the video market actually uh this demand , video over-demand or what we call it as , it 's presently booming up actually industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : so it i like people are providing like uh things like uh uh movies , you can select actually so you want to watch a movie and uh your p your provider gives a list of movies , and then you select those list . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and it industrial designer : yeah . user interface : basically you go off , it downloads the movie , it gives for you industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then when you come you want to loo watch it on your tv . project manager : good . user interface : and thi this is going to come . industrial designer : or even you do n't need to download it , it 's streamed uh online uh yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah it can be streamed online for you and you can say what time i want to watch the movie project manager : user interface : and industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , so u um user interface : so . yeah . project manager : i have uh received some some some some well points of of thinking over of my account manager and uh i would like to share them with you . um marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : first thing is uh teletext is a well known feature of televisions marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but it 's it 's getting used less and less . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's that 's especially because of the internet of course . so we should think about it um . do we include it , and do we give it a prominent uh prominent uh place on on on the on well huh on the remote mot control itself . uh as uh a in any case it 's it 's not used , well very much , but it 's it is still used . um further yes we must think , uh do we stay uh to to television only , the television as we as we all know it with with broadcasting signals and you ca n't go back uh huh , or do we uh uh go further as matthew indicated by supporting uh uh recording uh devices ? user interface : marketing : so d_v_d_s and v_c_r_s ? project manager : uh indeed indeed . and and and the hard disk recorders . um , furthermore , uh , w we need really need to interest uh y younger customers and then with younger customers i mean people uh below the age of forty , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and our our current customers are mainly forty plus marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh which well industrial designer : fourteen project manager : forty . industrial designer : or for o okay . so project manager : that 's to that 's i mean there 's a market but uh they will grow older older marketing : project manager : and you 'll al always need to have the the future with younger people . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um therefore , younger people like trendy trendy designs , so that 's w we should make our our our r_c_ as trendy as possible but it should also be uh have a reliable image , so when it looks too too spacey or too fancy people will think well does it work at all . user interface : yeah it 's uh well you you can follow the ideas how you want to keep the keys , you know right now if you take it you have like zero , one , two , three like a keys separately , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : but suppose if you take the the present trend of mobile phones there are like big thick keys you press on the top , it takes one number , you press on the bottom it takes another number , and uh basically uh uh so the space covered so that you do n't see two separate keys there actually industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so it it is like uh um i i it is like uh project manager : ma maybe maybe you can draw it on the on the board uh marketing : mm . but i think taking the idea of getting inspiration from mobile phones is interesting , especially if we 're going after a younger market , user interface : yeah so . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : hmm . yes yes marketing : that 's the the the mm the new and the funky things , industrial designer : because they are already used to that , you know , product . marketing : that 's , project manager : yes it 's recognisable industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , there 's lot there 's lots of pretty mobile phones , not too many pretty remote controls . project manager : mm mm . marketing : that 's project manager : and and they are skilled uh by using it . user interface : so for example uh well uh industrial designer : mm-hmm . .. . user interface : okay , it works . fine . so , for example you have uh presently uh keys like one , two , three like this , actually , and uh uh four five six like that and uh you can have keys like this in form like uh keys like that project manager : mael can you hand me over this uh ? industrial designer : yes . project manager : uh thank you . marketing : mm-hmm . okay . how much longer have we got for the meeting by the way ? project manager : mm well marketing : 'cause we have n't talked about demographic at all project manager : i think fi five min user interface : forty minutes ? marketing : and it 's a very important issue . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah so you you you can have uh keys like uh which are which are like so . too sorry , so we basically do n't change the uh original order of them industrial designer : user interface : but then the keys are more spacious , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : they do n't look uh so there there is a very sligh thing , so if you press on the top it takes the one , it takes the three , uh four , sorry four here uh five and six , marketing : mm . mm . user interface : so the keys can be it looks you know not very much cluttered but it looks nice industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : for you do n't have too many keys but you can have a lot of options t if you press on the to project manager : okay . 'kay i i think now that the idea 's clear . uh we should now uh try to decide um on our target group . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . which i think is quite tricky . industrial designer : marketing : um , basically we 're trying to get people to buy a remote control user interface : yeah . marketing : would n't they already have a remote control with their television when they buy one ? user interface : project manager : of course they have already one . so our our our remote control has to be better . marketing : but it 's not going to have more functionality , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause it 's only a low market , it 's a cheap-end remote control , we ca n't beat modern functionality , we might we 'll be able to beat them on th the look of it , th the design of it but that 's not a big seller , if they 're not just going to buy a new remote control just 'cause it looks pretty , they have to actually need it as well . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i 'm not sure how we can get people to buy this thing . project manager : mm . i well i think many people said uh in your in in your research uh uh uh the appearance of the uh r_c_ is is important when they are buying one marketing : mm . yeah . but why are they buying one in the first place ? project manager : but indeed . so that will be about functionality marketing : mm . but if people are buying a new remote control for functionality they 'll buy a universal remote . i 've got friends who 've got so many things they need a universal remote , otherwise they 're using five different remotes for their all their things . project manager : mm . mm-hmm . mm . marketing : in that case they would n't buy our product , because it does n't give them what they need in terms of functionality . project manager : so your you think we should go for a more u universal high-performance marketing : well , we ca n't , with the price range . we we 're not building a universal remote , we 're not building a high end product . project manager : what do what do you think about what componen industrial designer : yeah we have yeah twelve point five euros uh per uh per r_ s r_c_ and i think uh with this now you know that chips are very uh cheaps marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh we can include it in our control some new new features . yeah . and um but yeah marketing : but yeah . if we 're getting into universal remote territory , we 're getting to lcd screens and things like that industrial designer : that 's marketing : which would drive the cost up a lot . project manager : i do n't know . i do n't know whether that 's necessary . is the lcd screen marketing : for universal remotes industrial designer : i do n't think lcd is not necessary well , th for long term . marketing : if you mm . project manager : i think thi this could be this could be a market because uh universal remote controls uh tend to be uh quite expensive . marketing : and quite complicated to use , project manager : s so we can try to go in between , and offer a product which is not as expensive and not as complicated marketing : mm-hmm . not as flexible maybe , yeah , but s industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : but but still but still people have the idea this is more functional than a normal uh uh r_c_ industrial designer : universal . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : because it has more uh it it is in some kind universal . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : marketing : but if we 're going for the say fifteen to twenty five age group then not many of them would actually own tvs to use a remote control on . project manager : mm yes but w we 're targeting i think on more on the on the twenty to forty group . marketing : okay . so they 're yeah . project manager : people yes . who just have or already have a job and have the money but may not want to spend that much money on a on a universal universal control . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yep . i do n't know really what the the price range for remote controls is . are we gon na be at the very bottom of the price range , or are we kind of middle to bottom ? i do n't know . project manager : uh well i think uh when we think it over i thi i think we are trying to offer the a kind of universal control for for less money . industrial designer : marketing : mm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so d do you agree ? user interface : well well i it 's fine with me like the price as long as it is uh not too expensive . industrial designer : yeah user interface : uh and it d uh our provin industrial designer : because we have to take into account that we are gon na b we are gon na sell uh four aro around four million so when we speak about these numbers uh the price of a chip is uh price of a chip is very cheap . so i 'm okay for designing um a ne uh less yeah a a kind of universal uh r_c_ yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . you think it 's possible for the twelve euro fifty ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . um so then we we decide on on on going to this more universal kind of control . user interface : uh yeah , that 's that 's what we needed basically . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm . mm . okay . user interface : uh that 's needed right now . and uh basically you can look to the standards of other industrial designer : yeah that 's needed , yeah . marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : and if we want to get the market , we really need that . marketing : yeah . so i guess what i 'd like from a universal remote is maybe choosing between three devices , being able to switch between them , there may be stereo , v_c_r_ and tv . industrial designer : yes . exactly . user interface : yeah . marketing : and just be able to s use them all from the same remote , but not at the same time . user interface : yeah you can also browse through all the standards you know , where are the limit of standards for all of them and you can just browse through them . industrial designer : is that okay for you ? yeah . project manager : mm mm mm mm . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : so given we are going for this uh uh universal type uh m maybe it is good when you try to find out which components you therefore need and y you will try to get more specific uh user interface content user interface : okay . okay . project manager : and uh maybe you can look on on what trends are in this uh in this type of market . marketing : mm-hmm yep . user interface : voila . hmm . project manager : so anyone uh has a point to bring in user interface : so . well . project manager : or shall we no . user interface : oh i do n't have anything right now . we can we 'll we 'll go project manager : okay . industrial designer : that 's that 's fine then . user interface : and we 'll i 'm sure we 'll up something good marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : w yes , user interface : for the project manager : we uh we can have lunch now . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so um then th th the next meeting will uh user interface : yeah so we meet in well what are our project manager : after lunch you have uh we have uh thirty minutes of work and then we have the next meeting . but you will be informed via the computer . user interface : okay . project manager : okay . user interface : cool . so see you later . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about video demand , teletext demand , and thick keys design . </s> user interface : well . so we can always discuss about it for example uh the presently the video market actually uh this demand , video over-demand or what we call it as , it 's presently booming up actually industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : so it i like people are providing like uh things like uh uh movies , you can select actually so you want to watch a movie and uh your p your provider gives a list of movies , and then you select those list . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and it industrial designer : yeah . user interface : basically you go off , it downloads the movie , it gives for you industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then when you come you want to loo watch it on your tv . project manager : good . user interface : and thi this is going to come . industrial designer : or even you do n't need to download it , it 's streamed uh online uh yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah it can be streamed online for you and you can say what time i want to watch the movie project manager : user interface : and industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um , so u um user interface : so . yeah . project manager : i have uh received some some some some well points of of thinking over of my account manager and uh i would like to share them with you . um marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : first thing is uh teletext is a well known feature of televisions marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but it 's it 's getting used less and less . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's that 's especially because of the internet of course . so we should think about it um . do we include it , and do we give it a prominent uh prominent uh place on on on the on well huh on the remote mot control itself . uh as uh a in any case it 's it 's not used , well very much , but it 's it is still used . um further yes we must think , uh do we stay uh to to television only , the television as we as we all know it with with broadcasting signals and you ca n't go back uh huh , or do we uh uh go further as matthew indicated by supporting uh uh recording uh devices ? user interface : marketing : so d_v_d_s and v_c_r_s ? project manager : uh indeed indeed . and and and the hard disk recorders . um , furthermore , uh , w we need really need to interest uh y younger customers and then with younger customers i mean people uh below the age of forty , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and our our current customers are mainly forty plus marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh which well industrial designer : fourteen project manager : forty . industrial designer : or for o okay . so project manager : that 's to that 's i mean there 's a market but uh they will grow older older marketing : project manager : and you 'll al always need to have the the future with younger people . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um therefore , younger people like trendy trendy designs , so that 's w we should make our our our r_c_ as trendy as possible but it should also be uh have a reliable image , so when it looks too too spacey or too fancy people will think well does it work at all . user interface : yeah it 's uh well you you can follow the ideas how you want to keep the keys , you know right now if you take it you have like zero , one , two , three like a keys separately , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : but suppose if you take the the present trend of mobile phones there are like big thick keys you press on the top , it takes one number , you press on the bottom it takes another number , and uh basically uh uh so the space covered so that you do n't see two separate keys there actually industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so it it is like uh um i i it is like uh project manager : ma maybe maybe you can draw it on the on the board uh marketing : mm . but i think taking the idea of getting inspiration from mobile phones is interesting , especially if we 're going after a younger market , user interface : yeah so . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : hmm . yes yes marketing : that 's the the the mm the new and the funky things , industrial designer : because they are already used to that , you know , product . marketing : that 's , project manager : yes it 's recognisable industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , there 's lot there 's lots of pretty mobile phones , not too many pretty remote controls . project manager : mm mm . marketing : that 's project manager : and and they are skilled uh by using it . user interface : so for example uh well uh industrial designer : mm-hmm . .. . user interface : okay , it works . fine . so , for example you have uh presently uh keys like one , two , three like this , actually , and uh uh four five six like that and uh you can have keys like this in form like uh keys like that project manager : mael can you hand me over this uh ? industrial designer : yes . project manager : uh thank you . marketing : mm-hmm . okay . how much longer have we got for the meeting by the way ? project manager : mm well marketing : 'cause we have n't talked about demographic at all project manager : i think fi five min user interface : forty minutes ? marketing : and it 's a very important issue . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah so you you you can have uh keys like uh which are which are like so . too sorry , so we basically do n't change the uh original order of them industrial designer : user interface : but then the keys are more spacious , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : they do n't look uh so there there is a very sligh thing , so if you press on the top it takes the one , it takes the three , uh four , sorry four here uh five and six , marketing : mm . mm . user interface : so the keys can be it looks you know not very much cluttered but it looks nice industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : for you do n't have too many keys but you can have a lot of options t if you press on the to </s>
<s> what attitudes did project manager hold towards teletext ? </s> project manager : first thing is uh teletext is a well known feature of televisions marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but it 's it 's getting used less and less . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's that 's especially because of the internet of course . so we should think about it um . do we include it , and do we give it a prominent uh prominent uh place on on on the on well huh on the remote mot control itself . uh as uh a in any case it 's it 's not used , well very much , but it 's it is still used . um further yes we must think , uh do we stay uh to to television only , the television as we as we all know it with with broadcasting signals and you ca n't go back uh huh , or do we uh uh go further as matthew indicated by supporting uh uh recording uh devices ? user interface : marketing : so d_v_d_s and v_c_r_s ? project manager : uh indeed indeed . and and and the hard disk recorders . um , furthermore , uh , w we need really need to interest uh y younger customers and then with younger customers i mean people uh below the age of forty , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and our our current customers are mainly forty plus marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh which well industrial designer : fourteen project manager : forty . industrial designer : or for o okay . so project manager : that 's to that 's i mean there 's a market but uh they will grow older older marketing : project manager : and you 'll al always need to have the the future with younger people . marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what were the advantages of big thick keys proposed by user interface ? </s> user interface : but suppose if you take the the present trend of mobile phones there are like big thick keys you press on the top , it takes one number , you press on the bottom it takes another number , and uh basically uh uh so the space covered so that you do n't see two separate keys there actually industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so it it is like uh um i i it is like uh project manager : ma maybe maybe you can draw it on the on the board uh marketing : mm . but i think taking the idea of getting inspiration from mobile phones is interesting , especially if we 're going after a younger market , user interface : yeah so . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : hmm . yes yes marketing : that 's the the the mm the new and the funky things , industrial designer : because they are already used to that , you know , product . marketing : that 's , project manager : yes it 's recognisable industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , there 's lot there 's lots of pretty mobile phones , not too many pretty remote controls . project manager : mm mm . marketing : that 's project manager : and and they are skilled uh by using it . user interface : so for example uh well uh industrial designer : mm-hmm . .. . user interface : okay , it works . fine . so , for example you have uh presently uh keys like one , two , three like this , actually , and uh uh four five six like that and uh you can have keys like this in form like uh keys like that project manager : mael can you hand me over this uh ? industrial designer : yes . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about the target group and corresponding functionalities . </s> project manager : uh we should now uh try to decide um on our target group . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . which i think is quite tricky . industrial designer : marketing : um , basically we 're trying to get people to buy a remote control user interface : yeah . marketing : would n't they already have a remote control with their television when they buy one ? user interface : project manager : of course they have already one . so our our our remote control has to be better . marketing : but it 's not going to have more functionality , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause it 's only a low market , it 's a cheap-end remote control , we ca n't beat modern functionality , we might we 'll be able to beat them on th the look of it , th the design of it but that 's not a big seller , if they 're not just going to buy a new remote control just 'cause it looks pretty , they have to actually need it as well . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i 'm not sure how we can get people to buy this thing . project manager : mm . i well i think many people said uh in your in in your research uh uh uh the appearance of the uh r_c_ is is important when they are buying one marketing : mm . yeah . but why are they buying one in the first place ? project manager : but indeed . so that will be about functionality marketing : mm . but if people are buying a new remote control for functionality they 'll buy a universal remote . i 've got friends who 've got so many things they need a universal remote , otherwise they 're using five different remotes for their all their things . project manager : mm . mm-hmm . mm . marketing : in that case they would n't buy our product , because it does n't give them what they need in terms of functionality . project manager : so your you think we should go for a more u universal high-performance marketing : well , we ca n't , with the price range . we we 're not building a universal remote , we 're not building a high end product . project manager : what do what do you think about what componen industrial designer : yeah we have yeah twelve point five euros uh per uh per r_ s r_c_ and i think uh with this now you know that chips are very uh cheaps marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh we can include it in our control some new new features . yeah . and um but yeah marketing : but yeah . if we 're getting into universal remote territory , we 're getting to lcd screens and things like that industrial designer : that 's marketing : which would drive the cost up a lot . project manager : i do n't know . i do n't know whether that 's necessary . is the lcd screen marketing : for universal remotes industrial designer : i do n't think lcd is not necessary well , th for long term . marketing : if you mm . project manager : i think thi this could be this could be a market because uh universal remote controls uh tend to be uh quite expensive . marketing : and quite complicated to use , project manager : s so we can try to go in between , and offer a product which is not as expensive and not as complicated marketing : mm-hmm . not as flexible maybe , yeah , but s industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : but but still but still people have the idea this is more functional than a normal uh uh r_c_ industrial designer : universal . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : because it has more uh it it is in some kind universal . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : marketing : but if we 're going for the say fifteen to twenty five age group then not many of them would actually own tvs to use a remote control on . project manager : mm yes but w we 're targeting i think on more on the on the twenty to forty group . marketing : okay . so they 're yeah . project manager : people yes . who just have or already have a job and have the money but may not want to spend that much money on a on a universal universal control . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yep . i do n't know really what the the price range for remote controls is . are we gon na be at the very bottom of the price range , or are we kind of middle to bottom ? i do n't know . project manager : uh well i think uh when we think it over i thi i think we are trying to offer the a kind of universal control for for less money . industrial designer : marketing : mm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so d do you agree ? user interface : well well i it 's fine with me like the price as long as it is uh not too expensive . industrial designer : yeah user interface : uh and it d uh our provin industrial designer : because we have to take into account that we are gon na b we are gon na sell uh four aro around four million so when we speak about these numbers uh the price of a chip is uh price of a chip is very cheap . so i 'm okay for designing um a ne uh less yeah a a kind of universal uh r_c_ yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . you think it 's possible for the twelve euro fifty ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . um so then we we decide on on on going to this more universal kind of control . user interface : uh yeah , that 's that 's what we needed basically . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm . mm . okay . user interface : uh that 's needed right now . and uh basically you can look to the standards of other industrial designer : yeah that 's needed , yeah . marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : and if we want to get the market , we really need that . marketing : yeah . so i guess what i 'd like from a universal remote is maybe choosing between three devices , being able to switch between them , there may be stereo , v_c_r_ and tv . industrial designer : yes . exactly . user interface : yeah . marketing : and just be able to s use them all from the same remote , but not at the same time . user interface : yeah you can also browse through all the standards you know , where are the limit of standards for all of them and you can just browse through them . industrial designer : is that okay for you ? yeah . project manager : mm mm mm mm . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : so given we are going for this uh uh universal type uh m maybe it is good when you try to find out which components you therefore need and y you will try to get more specific uh user interface content user interface : okay . okay . project manager : and uh maybe you can look on on what trends are in this uh in this type of market . marketing : mm-hmm yep . user interface : voila . hmm . project manager : so anyone uh has a point to bring in user interface : so . well . project manager : or shall we no . user interface : oh i do n't have anything right now . we can we 'll we 'll go project manager : okay . industrial designer : that 's that 's fine then . user interface : and we 'll i 'm sure we 'll up something good marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : w yes , user interface : for the project manager : we uh we can have lunch now . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so um then th th the next meeting will uh user interface : yeah so we meet in well what are our project manager : after lunch you have uh we have uh thirty minutes of work and then we have the next meeting . but you will be informed via the computer . user interface : okay . project manager : okay . user interface : cool . so see you later . </s>
<s> who did marketing think the remote control should target and why ? </s> project manager : um therefore , younger people like trendy trendy designs , so that 's w we should make our our our r_c_ as trendy as possible but it should also be uh have a reliable image , so when it looks too too spacey or too fancy people will think well does it work at all . user interface : yeah it 's uh well you you can follow the ideas how you want to keep the keys , you know right now if you take it you have like zero , one , two , three like a keys separately , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : but suppose if you take the the present trend of mobile phones there are like big thick keys you press on the top , it takes one number , you press on the bottom it takes another number , and uh basically uh uh so the space covered so that you do n't see two separate keys there actually industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so it it is like uh um i i it is like uh project manager : ma maybe maybe you can draw it on the on the board uh marketing : mm . but i think taking the idea of getting inspiration from mobile phones is interesting , especially if we 're going after a younger market , user interface : yeah so . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : hmm . yes yes marketing : that 's the the the mm the new and the funky things , industrial designer : because they are already used to that , you know , product . marketing : that 's , project manager : yes it 's recognisable industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , there 's lot there 's lots of pretty mobile phones , not too many pretty remote controls . project manager : mm mm . marketing : that 's project manager : and and they are skilled uh by using it . user interface : so for example uh well uh industrial designer : mm-hmm . .. . user interface : okay , it works . fine . so , for example you have uh presently uh keys like one , two , three like this , actually , and uh uh four five six like that and uh you can have keys like this in form like uh keys like that project manager : mael can you hand me over this uh ? industrial designer : yes . project manager : uh thank you . marketing : mm-hmm . okay . how much longer have we got for the meeting by the way ? project manager : mm well marketing : 'cause we have n't talked about demographic at all project manager : i think fi five min user interface : forty minutes ? marketing : and it 's a very important issue . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah so you you you can have uh keys like uh which are which are like so . too sorry , so we basically do n't change the uh original order of them industrial designer : user interface : but then the keys are more spacious , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : they do n't look uh so there there is a very sligh thing , so if you press on the top it takes the one , it takes the three , uh four , sorry four here uh five and six , marketing : mm . mm . user interface : so the keys can be it looks you know not very much cluttered but it looks nice industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : for you do n't have too many keys but you can have a lot of options t if you press on the to project manager : okay . 'kay i i think now that the idea 's clear . uh we should now uh try to decide um on our target group . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . which i think is quite tricky . industrial designer : marketing : um , basically we 're trying to get people to buy a remote control user interface : yeah . marketing : would n't they already have a remote control with their television when they buy one ? user interface : project manager : of course they have already one . so our our our remote control has to be better . marketing : but it 's not going to have more functionality , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause it 's only a low market , it 's a cheap-end remote control , we ca n't beat modern functionality , we might we 'll be able to beat them on th the look of it , th the design of it but that 's not a big seller , if they 're not just going to buy a new remote control just 'cause it looks pretty , they have to actually need it as well . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i 'm not sure how we can get people to buy this thing . project manager : mm . i well i think many people said uh in your in in your research uh uh uh the appearance of the uh r_c_ is is important when they are buying one marketing : mm . yeah . but why are they buying one in the first place ? </s>
<s> what decision did the group make on universal remote ? </s> marketing : mm . but if people are buying a new remote control for functionality they 'll buy a universal remote . i 've got friends who 've got so many things they need a universal remote , otherwise they 're using five different remotes for their all their things . project manager : mm . mm-hmm . mm . marketing : in that case they would n't buy our product , because it does n't give them what they need in terms of functionality . project manager : so your you think we should go for a more u universal high-performance marketing : well , we ca n't , with the price range . we we 're not building a universal remote , we 're not building a high end product . project manager : what do what do you think about what componen industrial designer : yeah we have yeah twelve point five euros uh per uh per r_ s r_c_ and i think uh with this now you know that chips are very uh cheaps marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh we can include it in our control some new new features . yeah . and um but yeah marketing : but yeah . if we 're getting into universal remote territory , we 're getting to lcd screens and things like that industrial designer : that 's marketing : which would drive the cost up a lot . project manager : i do n't know . i do n't know whether that 's necessary . is the lcd screen marketing : for universal remotes industrial designer : i do n't think lcd is not necessary well , th for long term . marketing : if you mm . project manager : i think thi this could be this could be a market because uh universal remote controls uh tend to be uh quite expensive . marketing : and quite complicated to use , project manager : s so we can try to go in between , and offer a product which is not as expensive and not as complicated marketing : mm-hmm . not as flexible maybe , yeah , but s industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : but but still but still people have the idea this is more functional than a normal uh uh r_c_ industrial designer : universal . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : because it has more uh it it is in some kind universal . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : marketing : but if we 're going for the say fifteen to twenty five age group then not many of them would actually own tvs to use a remote control on . project manager : mm yes but w we 're targeting i think on more on the on the twenty to forty group . marketing : okay . so they 're yeah . project manager : people yes . who just have or already have a job and have the money but may not want to spend that much money on a on a universal universal control . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yep . i do n't know really what the the price range for remote controls is . are we gon na be at the very bottom of the price range , or are we kind of middle to bottom ? i do n't know . project manager : uh well i think uh when we think it over i thi i think we are trying to offer the a kind of universal control for for less money . industrial designer : marketing : mm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so d do you agree ? user interface : well well i it 's fine with me like the price as long as it is uh not too expensive . industrial designer : yeah user interface : uh and it d uh our provin industrial designer : because we have to take into account that we are gon na b we are gon na sell uh four aro around four million so when we speak about these numbers uh the price of a chip is uh price of a chip is very cheap . so i 'm okay for designing um a ne uh less yeah a a kind of universal uh r_c_ yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . you think it 's possible for the twelve euro fifty ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . um so then we we decide on on on going to this more universal kind of control . user interface : uh yeah , that 's that 's what we needed basically . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm . mm . okay . user interface : uh that 's needed right now . and uh basically you can look to the standards of other industrial designer : yeah that 's needed , yeah . marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : and if we want to get the market , we really need that . marketing : yeah . so i guess what i 'd like from a universal remote is maybe choosing between three devices , being able to switch between them , there may be stereo , v_c_r_ and tv . industrial designer : yes . exactly . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : right uh . so um . so where 's the powerpoint presentation ? sorry ? microsoft powerpoint , right . right , okay . so . right . okay , so we 've got uh so we 've got new project requirements . um . so basically we 've got three things , and we 've got forty minutes in which to uh for this meeting to uh to discuss the various options . um . three presentations . industrial designer : we have a i guess we have a presentation each , 'cause i 've got one . um . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , project manager : i see , right . marketing : i 've got one too . project manager : that 's nice to know , one from each of you . um new project requirements . um so do we want to do the presentation first , or do we want to um w i i got um or or three things basically , um relating to the remote being only for tv . we discussed that last time industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and in actual fact that was pr pretty well what we came up with anyway . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so in fact it actually f we wo n't be forestalled in a sense . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : project manager : um we 've got uh teletext outdated . um did you get any information on that ? industrial designer : uh we did n't , no . project manager : right and the corporate image was the uh final thing . industrial designer : i d i did n't personally . project manager : so i i got that in email form . user interface : project manager : um . right okay . so i guess if we go ahead with the uh with the three presentations . so we 'll start with yourself on the basis that uh industrial designer : okay that 's fine . i 'll just um i 'll grab the wire out the back of this one . project manager : sorry , yep . user interface : project manager : oh . user interface : what is it ? industrial designer : i 'm not quite sure how it user interface : i think you 've got to do um control f_ eight . industrial designer : control does n't seem to be quite working at the moment . user interface : shift f_ eight . industrial designer : alt function f_ eight . again not doing anything . marketing : there 's usually a little thing in the top right for the user interface : ah there , marketing : oh hang on , user interface : it 's doing something . marketing : it 's just coming on . industrial designer : pressed about five times now . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : okay , that 's me . okay , um i have to go again . project manager : it going ? industrial designer : hopefully that should be it this time . okay , i think we 're there . that 's good . okay , um okay i 'm gon na be looking at the working design . um of the of the remote control . um i 've just got three sections , first is the research i made on the on the remote control itself um . and then that involves the components required in it and the systems uh design of the actual the actual remote . um so having researched the existing models within the market , um i found my research off the internet . um i 've established what the components required for the remote control to function , actually are . and then also the methods in which these components interact together for the remote to actually do what you want it to do and how it connects with the television . um the basic components are an energy source which i guess um in most existing models would be a battery supply . whether that 'll be sort of two batteries , four batteries , um it may vary . project manager : okay . industrial designer : we then have the user interface , which is basically the like the the buttons on the actual remote . um the various functions used for changing channel , uh channel up and down , volume , things like that . um there 's also a chip inside the remote which does all the computer type things . and then the sender , which um is usually , i 've found , an infra-red device which sends a signal to the actual television . um and the last part is receiver which is important in the system but is not actually part of the remote itself , because that 's obviously found in the television . . um i 'm gon na have to actually draw on the board because uh it was a little tricky on powerpoint to get this working , so . i 'll just go through there . s um um do we have a cloth to wipe this down with , or ? oh i 'll j project manager : uh there 's the rubber on the right , i think . user interface : i think it 's that little industrial designer : oh i see . oh okay . i 'll get rid of the bear. $ project manager : it 's magic . marketing : industrial designer : okay that 's great . okay , so we start off with a um battery suppl uh no , a power supply which we 'd probably get it 's probably gon na be the battery . um we then have a particular button , which may be that 's obviously there 's lots and lots of different buttons . um but this is how the basic system works . um that sends after you press that that sends the message to the chip , which um then sends it sort of interprets which button you 've pressed and then sends the appropriate message to the sender . um . so that 's . that 's the remote in itself , that 's the components of the remote and how they work together . so this is the uh user interface . um this is the chip itself , which then , and that 's the that 's the infra-red sender . and then on the separate thing we have on the on the television we have a a receiver . and the sender sends a message to the receiver . 'kay . project manager : so the the top bit 's the power source , yes ? . industrial designer : ah yes , that 's the power source . um . going on to personal preferences , i 've said that battery seems the best option for the actual remote , just because of the size . you do n't want a a cable attached to the remote otherwise it 's not it 's not really a remote . um and then the sender , marketing : industrial designer : and infra-red um has been used quite successfully . if the battery 's on reasonable power , they always seem to work fairly well . you do n't have to be point directly at the television itself . project manager : so the battery is the in the sender . industrial designer : um yes . 'kay and that 's it for the moment . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . so , now more design . user interface : right . thank you . mine 's not quite as complicated as all that . project manager : that 's what we like to hear . user interface : did i press function ? yeah . project manager : is it control function ei oh , th there you go . user interface : oh . um . okay so i 'm gon na talk a bit about the technical functions design . i 'm louisa , the user interface designer , as you know . um so the m basic method of this is to send a signal from the remote to the television set , so that a desired function is performed . um an example of the function could be to change the volume up or down , uh so obviously you need two different buttons for that . um to change the channel , either by pressing the number that you want or by channel up or down . um to switch the television on or off , maybe a standby button . um here are two example remotes . um by the look of it they both have um kind of play and fast forward , rewind functions , so i think they incorporate a kind of video function which we wo n't have to worry about . uh but as you can see , the left remote is quite um quite busy looking , quite complicated . um whereas the right remote is much simpler , it looks much more user friendly . um so my personal preference would be the right remote . so , it 's got nice big buttons , it 's got a very limited number of buttons . um they 're nice , kinda clearly labelled . um i like the use of the kind of um symbols like the triangles and the squares and the arrows as well as the words on the um kind of play functions and all that . so it 's very very user friendly , and it 's got a little splash of colour . could maybe do with some more colour . um . project manager : well there 's a couple of things there . um we have to remember that we have our own um logo and colour scheme . so basically we 'd have to uh we 'd have to be putting that on um the the product . user interface : hmm . do we get to see that ? project manager : i have n't as yet , no . user interface : will you be presenting that in a bit ? project manager : but uh i got uh i got an email that basically said to uh make sure that uh whatever device we come up with at the end of the day had to incorporate um the corporate colour and slogan . so uh i 'm guessing that uh uh i notice on the bottom there it 's got uh what 's that ? a_p_o_g_e_e_ that might be the corporate colour scheme , although the only the only colour i can see in that is the red . industrial designer : would you be able to get rid of the the extra buttons here , the the sort of circular section , because that seems to be for a video as well . so we could dispense with that little bit as well and just get it down to just the numbers and the volume . possibly ? user interface : what do you mean by the circular section ? industrial designer : j yeah yeah yeah j yeah user interface : like all of that bottom bit ? project manager : industrial designer : just this little bit is that i think that 's still um a video remote part , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so maybe we could get rid of that as well . user interface : yeah . and i do n't really think that you need nine numbers . project manager : well b uh w user interface : i mean how often do you use seven , eight and nine ? i think just one to six and then channel up and down should be enough . project manager : well th the on the user interface : like how often do you hit nine ? project manager : well uh for for general television purposes obviously you have channels one to five at this point in time , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and we 'd have to have some room for uh future such channels . but but industrial designer : it 's just people are used to seeing that , so if we did n't have them then they might think it 's project manager : but , well possibly but the the other thing is that with um the current expansion of uh channels uh in the process of taking place , certainly the button up and down , but uh i mean how many channels do we have to um actual television channels do we have to uh prepare for ? i would have thought that uh it 's forever expanding and at the moment we 've got although you 've onl you 've got the five standard , you 've got the b_b_c_ have come up with a further six industrial designer : project manager : and uh there 's uh i do n't know exactly how many channels there are on uh when you take into account uh sky and various other um various others . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so i would 've thought that we would n't , you know , rather okay , if the time of flicking from one to other , but presumably it 'll take a second user interface : project manager : 'cause you have to be able to stop it . maybe you could have a fast forward on the on the channels that w and then you could dispense with more otherwise . y you 'd want you 'd want to get fairly quickly to the channel that you wanted . industrial designer : user interface : um some remotes have kind of favourite options where if you always flick from channel one to channel six , um if that 's a favourite you just like by-pass two to five . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , i s i suppose in a sense you could have um if you 've got a hundred channels then if you had sort of an easy way of getting rather than having to go one to a hundred , you could go one to one to ten , ten to twenty and then have a second button to get you to the actual channel you want marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and that would cut down your time . user interface : mm . um . project manager : anyway . user interface : but i think a lot of um like cable and sky and stuff , that would be tuned to one channel , and then you 'd have another remote for all of those channels . industrial designer : okay , yeah . user interface : like to get to fifty five and the higher numbers project manager : whatever . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : okay . okay . limit the number of buttons , user friendly . user interface : but i suppose nine 's not really excessive . industrial designer : i suppose with nine you 've got the the like the last one which makes the tenth means you uh it 's like uh multiples you can put them together so you can make any number . user interface : i suppose it does make a good pattern . industrial designer : so with that we 'd kind of by-pass any problems with project manager : yeah well that 's true , yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : you could get fifty by five and a zero or whatever , that that makes sense . industrial designer : yeah . 'cause that facilitates having all the numbers you could ever need . project manager : yeah . does . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so w so what was the circular thing that you were user interface : okay . um i think that 's just for a video , so we would n't need any of that at all . industrial designer : so we could get it down to what ? project manager : if it 's just for tv , which is what it is at the moment . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so we get to how many buttons have we got ? we 've just got ten , eleven twelve th we got fourteen that we need . i guess . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um which is n't really too many . that 'll be quite easy to make a user guide for a fourteen button remote . project manager : mm-hmm . well we 've we 've got um that it 's remote for tv only otherwise project would become too complex with uh which would endanger the time to market was one of the considerations . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : i 'm i do n't know d did you have that information behind the marketing , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : or was i meant to give you that information ? marketing : um i 'm not sure . i had i 've had some market information , project manager : right . marketing : but not from the company , no . project manager : right , okay , so basically time to market seems to be important , therefore speed of delivery . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : we 've only got about another four hours left . user interface : marketing : user interface : okay , so is everyone happy with that ? industrial designer : ah yes yes , that seems good . marketing : okay . user interface : right well that 's the end of my presentation . marketing : 'kay . i 'm gon na pull this off . industrial designer : i think if you just give it a second to maybe catch up . project manager : yeah , i think she said twenty seconds to um marketing : uh-huh . industrial designer : i 'm sure we 'll have by the end of today . marketing : okay . i 'll give it another go . yeah , there we go . right , we 've done some research into the functional requirements that people want out of their remote control . and first off we should state that th the remote control 's for controlling the tv and um how do people use it ? we asked them sort of which buttons were useful for them . um how d how does a remote control look and feel for them , and what improvements would would they like to remote control . and we did that by sort of giving them a questionnaire that we 'd prepared and asking them to fill in the answers . and three quarters of them found that remote controls are ugly and that a sort of even higher proportion would spend more for a sort of s uh a fancier remote control and that of all the buttons on the remote control , the sort of setting buttons for sort of the picture picture and brightness and the audio settings , um they were n't used very often at all . people concentrated on the channel buttons and the volume buttons and the power buttons . uh we also asked them about speech recognition uh for remote control . and young people were quite receptive to this , but as soon as we got sort of over about into a thirty five to forty age forty five age group and older , people people were n't quite so keen on speech recognition . there 's a lot more th there 's a lot lot more older people who did n't know whether they wanted it or not as well . um we also asked what frustrated people about remote controls and the number one frustration was that the remote was lost somewhere else in the room and that they could n't find it . and the second second biggest frustration what that if they got a new remote control , it was difficult to learn um all the buttons and all the functions , and to find your way around it . okay , so my personal preferences from the marketing is that we need to come up with some sort of sleek sort of good looking high high-tech a design which looks high-tech , basically . um and that we should come up with fewer buttons than most of the controls on the market , and we should sort of concentrate on the channels and sort of power , and also volume and that sort of thing , as as louisa said . um we could maybe come up with a menu , a sort of a an lcd menu for other functions on the remote control . that 's worth thinking about . um and maybe we could think about speech recognition as well , because um sort of young people are perhaps the ones that are gon na buy buy our new product if we aim it at sort of you know sort of a high-tech design . that that might be the market that we 're we 're looking for . and we could maybe think about using speech recogniti recognition as a way to find the remote control if it 's lost in a room , rather than sort of um having it to speech recognition to change the channels . 'cause there 's a problem with that in that the television makes noise , so it could end up talking to itself and changing its channel . okay um , and that 's the end of the slide show . that 's it . cool . project manager : what was that last wee bit there ? user interface : do a lot of um marketing : um about speech recognition ? project manager : speech recognition , user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : but that was only for young people that preferred it , older people did n't . marketing : youn young people pref yeah , they s they said that they 'd be interested in a remote control which offered that possibility and as you go up through the age groups , people got less and less interested in sort of a a remote control that you could talk to , so . industrial designer : no what i maybe think is um it seems the technology would be quite advanced for that and they might end up costing more than our twelve fifty budget for for the speech recognition . um . project manager : well that 's right . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and possibly the thing about the about the remote being lost we could have you know with your mobile phone , you lose that and you can ring it . maybe we can have some kind of sensor which is kept somewhere where you can some kind of buzzer system between the two . so you can press a button which is always kept in one place marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and then it maybe buzzes to somewhere else , wherever the remote actually is . marketing : uh-huh . yeah . yeah , we 'd have t that would mean we 'd have to put two products together as well , industrial designer : that is true , yes . marketing : which which again would probably be a bit expensive , but user interface : there 's key rings um that you kind of whistle at or clap at , i ca n't remember , and then they whistle back , or something like that . marketing : yeah . project manager : sounds reasonable . user interface : that 'd probably be really simple , marketing : yeah . user interface : they 're cheap . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . so industrial designer : so i guess it 'd be something we could like attach to the or like the same technology could be put inside the inside the remote . project manager : well if you 're trying to avoid having a second product 'cause obviously you could have a second product that gave you the right pitch which would set the remote off to say here i am sort of thing , you know without sound recognition . but if you i know . um i was gon na say a sharp noise , you know a clapping of hand or whatever . you 'd want to try and av just have the one product that if industrial designer : yeah . yeah if we if we could have it in the actual remote like everything in one one device . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : yeah . um i dunno um talking about vo i mean obviously if you 've got voice recognition then you can do it in that way because it 'll recognise the voice and you can give it a command , a set command whatever that happened to be . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : but you 've then got the point if if you 're not going with uh voice recognition then industrial designer : you could have an option to turn it off . or marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : perhaps , um . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so that would solve the problems with the tv kind of speaking to the remote and changing its own channels . marketing : project manager : so uh any sugges well , any conclusions ? marketing : um would it take quite a while to sort of develop the speech recognition software in the remote control ? user interface : project manager : well if it does then we ca n't . marketing : considering project manager : it 's that simple , marketing : yeah . project manager : because we 've got uh th th three um primary um uh requisites from uh from and email uh that was sent to me whereby we had the design logo was one , which we 've already mentioned . we 've got um the remote was only for the television and not for because that would make it too complex and we have to get it market quickly . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and the uh third thing was that um teletext uh as far as uh the management is concerned , um is becoming dated uh due to the popularity of the internet . so that means that uh industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : okay . project manager : so these are the sort of three um extra parameters that have been put on this uh project . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so we 're being focused effectively directly at a television and it seems to me that the management is uh wanting us to go down a narrow path and not opening out . so anything that uh is to be added , such as voice recognition et cetera has to be very simple and has to be very quick industrial designer : has to be simple enough to project manager : because time to market is is critical . s industrial designer : i suppose if we could get something in which was quite quick and simple that would give us an advantage over the other remotes . um . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : it would . but probably quick and simple is primary rather than added extras . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : added extras would be nice , but the primary consideration is to get the project finished within uh this short time window , which effectively now is sort of four hours . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so and if and we 've got ta get to the end . uh d d i think i think first and foremost we 've got ta get to the end and then get to the end with um added extras if possible . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . marketing : so project manager : right okay , uh so i need to right . so i do n't know how long we have left of our uh time . but we have to make the decisions on uh the remote control functions marketing : about five minutes . project manager : and how we were planning to proceed so that at the next uh meeting each person that 's got a a a task to do is clear from this meeting what that task is . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : we 'll also know w when the next meeting is industrial designer : um . project manager : i um so we 'll know how long we 've got to complete that task . and then we can report back at the next meeting and say right okay yes , we 've achieved this or we have n't achieved this , this is how far we 've progressed . does that make reasonable sense ? user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yes that seems right . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay , yeah . project manager : so we have to come effectively to the decision on the remote functions so that you can decide what you 're gon na be doing . and if dur between the time of this meeting finishing and the next meeting starting , if you get any additional information that uh only you have at that point in time you 'd think would be relevant to other people in terms of their des decision making um process , then we should communicate that as quickly as possible and not wait until the next meeting . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : do it via the email marketing : okay . yep . project manager : so that rather than coming you know if you get the information just before the next meeting that 's fine . come along with it in the next meeting , we can discuss it then and take whatever action is appropriate . industrial designer : okay . project manager : but if you get it well before the next meeting , let everybody else know 'cause that might have an impact on their uh on what they come up with effectively at the next meeting . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : right , is there marketing : so do we need to decide on the functions now ? s project manager : i would guess so . user interface : well i think it 'd be really easy and it 'd be a big advantage if we did have some sort of um kind of whistle back kind of function . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : 'cause that 'll solve kind of the frustration of losing it . marketing : yeah and yeah and that was that was the number one sort of frustration that people said , so . user interface : marketing : i do n't think there 's anything else on the market that does that , so . user interface : yeah . i do n't really know about the voice recognition thing . project manager : i w well uh i industrial designer : maybe we should concentrate just on the whistle back function at the moment , project manager : something simple . uh if if our primary consideration is to get it there in time , time 's short , industrial designer : and if something comes back project manager : you want something to meet the major concerns of the consumer so that we can have that as a selling point for the product , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : something that 's quick and simple . so , user interface : yeah . project manager : sounds good . user interface : and that would n't put off the kind of older generation either , 'cause everyone can whistle or clap , and they would n't have to be kind of scared of this new technology . project manager : well , so maybe a clap rather than a whistle would be marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : on the basis that if we 've got if we 're catering to the whole age range , you want something that 's easy to do , now something that does n't like whis uh marketing : no not everyone can whistle , can they , though ? project manager : well i i i do n't know . well if you think that more people can whistle than clap then that 's fine , then go for that option , user interface : project manager : but if i would have thought that more people could clap rather than whistle , industrial designer : i 'd go more marketing : clapping , i think clapping , industrial designer : yeah , f more for clap . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : so uh so clap option . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : 'kay we 've already decided that we do n't need a teletext button , have n't we ? project manager : uh . ef effectively that 's what the that 's what they 're saying , user interface : is that one of the project manager : that uh if uh if people are now using the internet then you do n't need teletext , marketing : project manager : so so take out teletext . marketing : taking out teletext , okay . industrial designer : did we decide on having the ten um the ten numbers user interface : right . industrial designer : and then the the little digit next to it which kind of enabled you to put them together . user interface : yeah , i think so , so zero to nine . marketing : mm . i think nowadays you can just get ones where it gives you a sort of a second or two to press another number , project manager : yeah . marketing : so you can press any two and it 'll sort of put them together . industrial designer : okay , ten numbers user interface : industrial designer : and then some kind of device to allow uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i 'll put delay to allow um multiple numbers . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : or multiple digits . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : did we decide anything about um the other functions ? as in setting the audio and tuning it and stuff like that ? you had an had an idea about the menu ? marketing : uh we could possibly put an l_ a sort of a lcd menu in , but that again is probably an expense that industrial designer : but just thinking um people probably i mean you do n't have you only have to probably tune in the tv once , but you have to be able to tune it that once . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so and if finally the tv breaks , you get a new one , you 're gon na have to be able to tune it . you ca n't really avoid that . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : except the new digital markets which do it by themselves . project manager : but the but that 's relying on the television market changing to an automatic industrial designer : so that 'll be in marketing : yeah . project manager : and if it is at the moment , that 's fine . but at the moment it 's not , so it seems to me that you have to have a device that caters , 'cause otherwise it would make it uh your device would become inoperable , or only operable in certain circumstances industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : and the idea is to have an international market industrial designer : yeah yeah . project manager : which is marketing : yeah . project manager : and it 's also m it 's the the product we 've got is something that 's at the i would have said the lower end of the s of the cost scale , so we 're not really going for something that 's uh terribly high-tech . marketing : yeah . i s i suppose um if people are buying remotes , then they 're probably buying it to replace another remote project manager : possibly . marketing : 'cause all most tellies come with remotes , so . project manager : that 's right . marketing : i mean we 're maybe talking about replacing remotes for slightly older televisions , so we maybe need to keep the the tuning function in . industrial designer : yeah . so how would this menu function work ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : would you maybe have like one menu button , then you 'd use the other buttons , maybe the number buttons to actually do the separate functions . user interface : yeah , marketing : yeah , user interface : like the volume or something . marketing : that would be a good idea , yeah . industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah , 'cause you do need um kind of brightness and contrast and everything as well . my dad was watching a film the other week marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and it was too dark , so i had to go through it and turn the brightness up . industrial designer : we 're gon na have the the individual numbers and then a menu function and maybe sort of a slightly more advanced um instruction booklet to come with it , to guide presu uh i think it 'd be quite hard just for people to grasp um just off like the menu use different buttons you maybe have to have like some better instructions of how that would actually work . marketing : uh i 'm not sure whether the sort of having people have a booklet 'cause one the second most annoying thing that people found was having to learn the new one . project manager : industrial designer : right , okay um . marketing : so maybe next to each of the buttons , you know each of them could have a number and then also a function written next to it , so you 're basically pressing industrial designer : that also goes back to the original design when we saw those two , and there was the one on the left hand side which had all like the double functions and stuff which kind of looked too busy and had too much on it , so . marketing : right . project manager : okay , well . user interface : well , if we 're trying to keep it slee sleek and sexy as well , have you seen those remotes where kind of um the bottom bit slides down , so there 's kind of um everything else revealed ? marketing : okay . yeah . project manager : so y ah that 's a very good idea . user interface : so you do n't use it that much , you do n't have to see it all the time . but it 's all there if you need it . industrial designer : that is that is a good idea actually . marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : sor sort of a second . project manager : so you keep um user interface : like a hidden panel . project manager : right we 've got five minutes before we wind up this meeting , so i 've been told . i do n't know if you 've got the same . industrial designer : okay . uh not quite , but i guess . project manager : okay . so so keep um keep detailed functions um hidden at the back . industrial designer : keep the other buttons but hide them away . user interface : hmm . and that 'll be better for the older generation as well 'cause , well my dad does n't like anything that you 've got to kinda flick through a menu , but he can pretty much read a button if it 's displayed properly . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so um we 're gon na have to have to work out what 's gon na be on these other functions as as well . so we 're gon na have like two separate two separate lists , i guess . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's right . marketing : yeah . project manager : data functions hidden at back . can bring out when needed . marketing : so th the the detailed ones would be sort of brightness , user interface : yeah . marketing : uh sorta project manager : that 's right so we 're dis so you 've got which ones are gon na be on the front and which ones are gon na be on the back . we have to decide . industrial designer : so sh should we decide in the next couple of minutes , and then marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i guess so . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so on the project manager : so on front , industrial designer : about the number . project manager : numbers , industrial designer : um the volume up and down . user interface : and the volume ? project manager : volume . industrial designer : shall we have a mute button as well ? project manager : sorry ? industrial designer : a mute button as well . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . or user interface : yeah i think they 're handy . marketing : mm-hmm . and probably a power one as well . dunno . user interface : i know it 's probably like um not an issue to raise here , but um the whole thing about not using your standby uh because of the like waste of electricity . have you seen the adverts ? like if you boil the kettle that 's full that 's a waste . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : if you leave your telly on standby it powers blackpool for a certain amount of time . marketing : yeah . user interface : like we should maybe try to discourage people from standby . industrial designer : but then they might not buy it if they have n't got one . 'cause people might just be too fickle and not want to change . user interface : yeah , it 's maybe too much of a big issue for here . marketing : yeah . project manager : so so are you having the stand-by on the front , then ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we can send out a flier with the device saying that you should n't leave it on stand-by . user interface : uh-oh danger sign . industrial designer : i think you probably should . project manager : user interface : yeah , but a little bit smaller . marketing : okay . user interface : compromise . project manager : well . industrial designer : um are we gon na have the channel up and down as well as the number buttons ? marketing : um 'cause yeah the market research said there is quite a lot of people do just zap around and flick , so . industrial designer : okay , so we 'll have um user interface : right . industrial designer : so we 've got ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen there ? project manager : channel up and down . what else have we got ? what was that , sixteen ? marketing : numbers is ten , volume is twelve , project manager : volume button . how many volumes ? marketing : th yeah si one up , one down . project manager : right okay . user interface : on mute . marketing : and a mute , yeah . that 's sixteen is n't it , yeah . industrial designer : is there anything else ? um . marketing : i do n't think so , no . project manager : power button , stand-by , channel , up and down . so is that it ? user interface : so . project manager : okay . that 's sixteen buttons , you reckon . and then at the back ? marketing : you 've got brightness and contrast . industrial designer : maybe if we 're gon na run out of time , one of us should come up with a list of these and then get back at the next meeting just at the start and say what they 're gon na be . user interface : and then project manager : okay . so on the back it 'll have brightness , contrast , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : anything else ? you 're also gon na have the channel tuner , as it were . user interface : uh there 's audio functions . industrial designer : so tuner up and down , i guess . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : tuner , would that have up and down ? . industrial designer : um up tune one way , tune the o user interface : i think they normally do . project manager : okay . okay . industrial designer : i i dunno i dunno possibly . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and then maybe sort of an enter button for sort of s you know , saying that you want that particular thing tuned in . so you go up and down and then it pick it finds something and then you wan na press enter to select it , yeah . industrial designer : oh yeah and th and a enter button just to select . yeah , okay . um i guess we 're keeping s it simple . we do n't really need any other audio funct uh functions because it 's just volume up , volume down . project manager : um up volume , yeah , i would have thought so . marketing : yeah . user interface : so i think um there 's quite a lot of like dolby surround studio , surround sort of things . project manager : okay . industrial designer : do they have their own do they have their own controls on their actual products , then , marketing : yeah . user interface : um maybe for the younger market . industrial designer : or do you have to do it via the remote ? user interface : um i think they 've got their own controls in this kind of like hidden panel . industrial designer : yeah i suppose if we 've got their if they 've got their own controls then we can avoid it for ours just to keep it simple . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : oh no , i mean um like there 's kind of individual buttons for them , like on the tv remote . industrial designer : oh , okay . right . user interface : but i do n't really know what they 're for , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i 've never used them . i just know they 're something to do with dolby . industrial designer : maybe unless something comes up then we should i think project manager : well you might get some research . user interface : industrial designer : well shall we look into that and just get back together . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : right so i 'll do the minutes of uh this meeting . user interface : right . marketing : right . project manager : and we 'll meet back at i 'm not sure . um forty minutes , i believe is the time . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the presentation and discussion about the design of the remote . </s> project manager : okay . so , now more design . user interface : right . thank you . mine 's not quite as complicated as all that . project manager : that 's what we like to hear . user interface : did i press function ? yeah . project manager : is it control function ei oh , th there you go . user interface : oh . um . okay so i 'm gon na talk a bit about the technical functions design . i 'm louisa , the user interface designer , as you know . um so the m basic method of this is to send a signal from the remote to the television set , so that a desired function is performed . um an example of the function could be to change the volume up or down , uh so obviously you need two different buttons for that . um to change the channel , either by pressing the number that you want or by channel up or down . um to switch the television on or off , maybe a standby button . um here are two example remotes . um by the look of it they both have um kind of play and fast forward , rewind functions , so i think they incorporate a kind of video function which we wo n't have to worry about . uh but as you can see , the left remote is quite um quite busy looking , quite complicated . um whereas the right remote is much simpler , it looks much more user friendly . um so my personal preference would be the right remote . so , it 's got nice big buttons , it 's got a very limited number of buttons . um they 're nice , kinda clearly labelled . um i like the use of the kind of um symbols like the triangles and the squares and the arrows as well as the words on the um kind of play functions and all that . so it 's very very user friendly , and it 's got a little splash of colour . could maybe do with some more colour . um . project manager : well there 's a couple of things there . um we have to remember that we have our own um logo and colour scheme . so basically we 'd have to uh we 'd have to be putting that on um the the product . user interface : hmm . do we get to see that ? project manager : i have n't as yet , no . user interface : will you be presenting that in a bit ? project manager : but uh i got uh i got an email that basically said to uh make sure that uh whatever device we come up with at the end of the day had to incorporate um the corporate colour and slogan . so uh i 'm guessing that uh uh i notice on the bottom there it 's got uh what 's that ? a_p_o_g_e_e_ that might be the corporate colour scheme , although the only the only colour i can see in that is the red . industrial designer : would you be able to get rid of the the extra buttons here , the the sort of circular section , because that seems to be for a video as well . so we could dispense with that little bit as well and just get it down to just the numbers and the volume . possibly ? user interface : what do you mean by the circular section ? industrial designer : j yeah yeah yeah j yeah user interface : like all of that bottom bit ? project manager : industrial designer : just this little bit is that i think that 's still um a video remote part , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so maybe we could get rid of that as well . user interface : yeah . and i do n't really think that you need nine numbers . project manager : well b uh w user interface : i mean how often do you use seven , eight and nine ? i think just one to six and then channel up and down should be enough . project manager : well th the on the user interface : like how often do you hit nine ? project manager : well uh for for general television purposes obviously you have channels one to five at this point in time , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and we 'd have to have some room for uh future such channels . but but industrial designer : it 's just people are used to seeing that , so if we did n't have them then they might think it 's project manager : but , well possibly but the the other thing is that with um the current expansion of uh channels uh in the process of taking place , certainly the button up and down , but uh i mean how many channels do we have to um actual television channels do we have to uh prepare for ? i would have thought that uh it 's forever expanding and at the moment we 've got although you 've onl you 've got the five standard , you 've got the b_b_c_ have come up with a further six industrial designer : project manager : and uh there 's uh i do n't know exactly how many channels there are on uh when you take into account uh sky and various other um various others . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so i would 've thought that we would n't , you know , rather okay , if the time of flicking from one to other , but presumably it 'll take a second user interface : project manager : 'cause you have to be able to stop it . maybe you could have a fast forward on the on the channels that w and then you could dispense with more otherwise . y you 'd want you 'd want to get fairly quickly to the channel that you wanted . industrial designer : user interface : um some remotes have kind of favourite options where if you always flick from channel one to channel six , um if that 's a favourite you just like by-pass two to five . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , i s i suppose in a sense you could have um if you 've got a hundred channels then if you had sort of an easy way of getting rather than having to go one to a hundred , you could go one to one to ten , ten to twenty and then have a second button to get you to the actual channel you want marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and that would cut down your time . user interface : mm . um . project manager : anyway . user interface : but i think a lot of um like cable and sky and stuff , that would be tuned to one channel , and then you 'd have another remote for all of those channels . industrial designer : okay , yeah . user interface : like to get to fifty five and the higher numbers project manager : whatever . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : okay . okay . limit the number of buttons , user friendly . user interface : but i suppose nine 's not really excessive . industrial designer : i suppose with nine you 've got the the like the last one which makes the tenth means you uh it 's like uh multiples you can put them together so you can make any number . user interface : i suppose it does make a good pattern . industrial designer : so with that we 'd kind of by-pass any problems with project manager : yeah well that 's true , yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : you could get fifty by five and a zero or whatever , that that makes sense . industrial designer : yeah . 'cause that facilitates having all the numbers you could ever need . project manager : yeah . does . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so w so what was the circular thing that you were user interface : okay . um i think that 's just for a video , so we would n't need any of that at all . industrial designer : so we could get it down to what ? project manager : if it 's just for tv , which is what it is at the moment . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so we get to how many buttons have we got ? we 've just got ten , eleven twelve th we got fourteen that we need . i guess . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um which is n't really too many . that 'll be quite easy to make a user guide for a fourteen button remote . project manager : mm-hmm . well we 've we 've got um that it 's remote for tv only otherwise project would become too complex with uh which would endanger the time to market was one of the considerations . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : i 'm i do n't know d did you have that information behind the marketing , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : or was i meant to give you that information ? marketing : um i 'm not sure . i had i 've had some market information , project manager : right . marketing : but not from the company , no . project manager : right , okay , so basically time to market seems to be important , therefore speed of delivery . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : we 've only got about another four hours left . user interface : marketing : user interface : okay , so is everyone happy with that ? industrial designer : ah yes yes , that seems good . marketing : okay . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the symbol and colour of the remote when discussing the design of the remote ? </s> user interface : oh . um . okay so i 'm gon na talk a bit about the technical functions design . i 'm louisa , the user interface designer , as you know . um so the m basic method of this is to send a signal from the remote to the television set , so that a desired function is performed . um an example of the function could be to change the volume up or down , uh so obviously you need two different buttons for that . um to change the channel , either by pressing the number that you want or by channel up or down . um to switch the television on or off , maybe a standby button . um here are two example remotes . um by the look of it they both have um kind of play and fast forward , rewind functions , so i think they incorporate a kind of video function which we wo n't have to worry about . uh but as you can see , the left remote is quite um quite busy looking , quite complicated . um whereas the right remote is much simpler , it looks much more user friendly . um so my personal preference would be the right remote . so , it 's got nice big buttons , it 's got a very limited number of buttons . um they 're nice , kinda clearly labelled . um i like the use of the kind of um symbols like the triangles and the squares and the arrows as well as the words on the um kind of play functions and all that . so it 's very very user friendly , and it 's got a little splash of colour . could maybe do with some more colour . um . project manager : well there 's a couple of things there . um we have to remember that we have our own um logo and colour scheme . so basically we 'd have to uh we 'd have to be putting that on um the the product . user interface : hmm . do we get to see that ? project manager : i have n't as yet , no . user interface : will you be presenting that in a bit ? </s>
<s> what is the decision of the discussion about the number of buttons on the remote ? </s> industrial designer : would you be able to get rid of the the extra buttons here , the the sort of circular section , because that seems to be for a video as well . so we could dispense with that little bit as well and just get it down to just the numbers and the volume . possibly ? user interface : what do you mean by the circular section ? industrial designer : j yeah yeah yeah j yeah user interface : like all of that bottom bit ? project manager : industrial designer : just this little bit is that i think that 's still um a video remote part , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so maybe we could get rid of that as well . user interface : yeah . and i do n't really think that you need nine numbers . project manager : well b uh w user interface : i mean how often do you use seven , eight and nine ? i think just one to six and then channel up and down should be enough . project manager : well th the on the user interface : like how often do you hit nine ? project manager : well uh for for general television purposes obviously you have channels one to five at this point in time , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and we 'd have to have some room for uh future such channels . but but industrial designer : it 's just people are used to seeing that , so if we did n't have them then they might think it 's project manager : but , well possibly but the the other thing is that with um the current expansion of uh channels uh in the process of taking place , certainly the button up and down , but uh i mean how many channels do we have to um actual television channels do we have to uh prepare for ? i would have thought that uh it 's forever expanding and at the moment we 've got although you 've onl you 've got the five standard , you 've got the b_b_c_ have come up with a further six industrial designer : project manager : and uh there 's uh i do n't know exactly how many channels there are on uh when you take into account uh sky and various other um various others . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so i would 've thought that we would n't , you know , rather okay , if the time of flicking from one to other , but presumably it 'll take a second user interface : project manager : 'cause you have to be able to stop it . maybe you could have a fast forward on the on the channels that w and then you could dispense with more otherwise . y you 'd want you 'd want to get fairly quickly to the channel that you wanted . industrial designer : user interface : um some remotes have kind of favourite options where if you always flick from channel one to channel six , um if that 's a favourite you just like by-pass two to five . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , i s i suppose in a sense you could have um if you 've got a hundred channels then if you had sort of an easy way of getting rather than having to go one to a hundred , you could go one to one to ten , ten to twenty and then have a second button to get you to the actual channel you want marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and that would cut down your time . user interface : mm . um . project manager : anyway . user interface : but i think a lot of um like cable and sky and stuff , that would be tuned to one channel , and then you 'd have another remote for all of those channels . industrial designer : okay , yeah . user interface : like to get to fifty five and the higher numbers project manager : whatever . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : okay . okay . limit the number of buttons , user friendly . user interface : but i suppose nine 's not really excessive . industrial designer : i suppose with nine you 've got the the like the last one which makes the tenth means you uh it 's like uh multiples you can put them together so you can make any number . user interface : i suppose it does make a good pattern . industrial designer : so with that we 'd kind of by-pass any problems with project manager : yeah well that 's true , yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : you could get fifty by five and a zero or whatever , that that makes sense . industrial designer : yeah . 'cause that facilitates having all the numbers you could ever need . project manager : yeah . does . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so w so what was the circular thing that you were user interface : okay . um i think that 's just for a video , so we would n't need any of that at all . industrial designer : so we could get it down to what ? project manager : if it 's just for tv , which is what it is at the moment . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so we get to how many buttons have we got ? we 've just got ten , eleven twelve th we got fourteen that we need . i guess . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um which is n't really too many . that 'll be quite easy to make a user guide for a fourteen button remote . project manager : but the but that 's relying on the television market changing to an automatic industrial designer : so that 'll be in marketing : yeah . project manager : and if it is at the moment , that 's fine . but at the moment it 's not , so it seems to me that you have to have a device that caters , 'cause otherwise it would make it uh your device would become inoperable , or only operable in certain circumstances industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : and the idea is to have an international market industrial designer : yeah yeah . project manager : which is marketing : yeah . project manager : and it 's also m it 's the the product we 've got is something that 's at the i would have said the lower end of the s of the cost scale , so we 're not really going for something that 's uh terribly high-tech . marketing : yeah . i s i suppose um if people are buying remotes , then they 're probably buying it to replace another remote project manager : possibly . marketing : 'cause all most tellies come with remotes , so . project manager : that 's right . marketing : i mean we 're maybe talking about replacing remotes for slightly older televisions , so we maybe need to keep the the tuning function in . industrial designer : yeah . so how would this menu function work ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : would you maybe have like one menu button , then you 'd use the other buttons , maybe the number buttons to actually do the separate functions . user interface : yeah , marketing : yeah , user interface : like the volume or something . marketing : that would be a good idea , yeah . industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah , 'cause you do need um kind of brightness and contrast and everything as well . my dad was watching a film the other week marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and it was too dark , so i had to go through it and turn the brightness up . industrial designer : we 're gon na have the the individual numbers and then a menu function and maybe sort of a slightly more advanced um instruction booklet to come with it , to guide presu uh i think it 'd be quite hard just for people to grasp um just off like the menu use different buttons you maybe have to have like some better instructions of how that would actually work . marketing : uh i 'm not sure whether the sort of having people have a booklet 'cause one the second most annoying thing that people found was having to learn the new one . project manager : industrial designer : right , okay um . marketing : so maybe next to each of the buttons , you know each of them could have a number and then also a function written next to it , so you 're basically pressing industrial designer : that also goes back to the original design when we saw those two , and there was the one on the left hand side which had all like the double functions and stuff which kind of looked too busy and had too much on it , so . marketing : right . project manager : okay , well . user interface : well , if we 're trying to keep it slee sleek and sexy as well , have you seen those remotes where kind of um the bottom bit slides down , so there 's kind of um everything else revealed ? marketing : okay . yeah . project manager : so y ah that 's a very good idea . user interface : so you do n't use it that much , you do n't have to see it all the time . but it 's all there if you need it . industrial designer : that is that is a good idea actually . marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : sor sort of a second . project manager : so you keep um user interface : like a hidden panel . project manager : right we 've got five minutes before we wind up this meeting , so i 've been told . i do n't know if you 've got the same . industrial designer : okay . uh not quite , but i guess . project manager : okay . so so keep um keep detailed functions um hidden at the back . industrial designer : keep the other buttons but hide them away . user interface : hmm . and that 'll be better for the older generation as well 'cause , well my dad does n't like anything that you 've got to kinda flick through a menu , but he can pretty much read a button if it 's displayed properly . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so um we 're gon na have to have to work out what 's gon na be on these other functions as as well . so we 're gon na have like two separate two separate lists , i guess . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's right . marketing : yeah . project manager : data functions hidden at back . can bring out when needed . marketing : so th the the detailed ones would be sort of brightness , user interface : yeah . marketing : uh sorta project manager : that 's right so we 're dis so you 've got which ones are gon na be on the front and which ones are gon na be on the back . we have to decide . industrial designer : so sh should we decide in the next couple of minutes , and then marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i guess so . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so on the project manager : so on front , industrial designer : about the number . project manager : numbers , industrial designer : um the volume up and down . user interface : and the volume ? project manager : volume . industrial designer : shall we have a mute button as well ? project manager : sorry ? industrial designer : a mute button as well . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . or user interface : yeah i think they 're handy . marketing : mm-hmm . and probably a power one as well . dunno . user interface : i know it 's probably like um not an issue to raise here , but um the whole thing about not using your standby uh because of the like waste of electricity . have you seen the adverts ? like if you boil the kettle that 's full that 's a waste . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : if you leave your telly on standby it powers blackpool for a certain amount of time . marketing : yeah . user interface : like we should maybe try to discourage people from standby . industrial designer : but then they might not buy it if they have n't got one . 'cause people might just be too fickle and not want to change . user interface : yeah , it 's maybe too much of a big issue for here . marketing : yeah . project manager : so so are you having the stand-by on the front , then ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we can send out a flier with the device saying that you should n't leave it on stand-by . user interface : uh-oh danger sign . industrial designer : i think you probably should . project manager : user interface : yeah , but a little bit smaller . marketing : okay . user interface : compromise . project manager : well . industrial designer : um are we gon na have the channel up and down as well as the number buttons ? marketing : um 'cause yeah the market research said there is quite a lot of people do just zap around and flick , so . industrial designer : okay , so we 'll have um user interface : right . industrial designer : so we 've got ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen there ? project manager : channel up and down . what else have we got ? what was that , sixteen ? marketing : numbers is ten , volume is twelve , project manager : volume button . how many volumes ? marketing : th yeah si one up , one down . project manager : right okay . user interface : on mute . marketing : and a mute , yeah . that 's sixteen is n't it , yeah . industrial designer : is there anything else ? um . marketing : i do n't think so , no . project manager : power button , stand-by , channel , up and down . so is that it ? user interface : so . project manager : okay . that 's sixteen buttons , you reckon . and then at the back ? marketing : you 've got brightness and contrast . industrial designer : maybe if we 're gon na run out of time , one of us should come up with a list of these and then get back at the next meeting just at the start and say what they 're gon na be . user interface : and then project manager : okay . so on the back it 'll have brightness , contrast , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : anything else ? you 're also gon na have the channel tuner , as it were . user interface : uh there 's audio functions . industrial designer : so tuner up and down , i guess . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : tuner , would that have up and down ? . industrial designer : um up tune one way , tune the o user interface : i think they normally do . project manager : okay . okay . industrial designer : i i dunno i dunno possibly . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and then maybe sort of an enter button for sort of s you know , saying that you want that particular thing tuned in . so you go up and down and then it pick it finds something and then you wan na press enter to select it , yeah . industrial designer : oh yeah and th and a enter button just to select . yeah , okay . um i guess we 're keeping s it simple . we do n't really need any other audio funct uh functions because it 's just volume up , volume down . project manager : um up volume , yeah , i would have thought so . marketing : yeah . user interface : so i think um there 's quite a lot of like dolby surround studio , surround sort of things . project manager : okay . industrial designer : do they have their own do they have their own controls on their actual products , then , marketing : yeah . user interface : um maybe for the younger market . industrial designer : or do you have to do it via the remote ? user interface : um i think they 've got their own controls in this kind of like hidden panel . industrial designer : yeah i suppose if we 've got their if they 've got their own controls then we can avoid it for ours just to keep it simple . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : oh no , i mean um like there 's kind of individual buttons for them , like on the tv remote . industrial designer : oh , okay . right . user interface : but i do n't really know what they 're for , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i 've never used them . i just know they 're something to do with dolby . industrial designer : maybe unless something comes up then we should i think </s>
<s> summarize the presentation about the customer 's functional requirements of the remote and the team 's discussion about it . </s> marketing : right , we 've done some research into the functional requirements that people want out of their remote control . and first off we should state that th the remote control 's for controlling the tv and um how do people use it ? we asked them sort of which buttons were useful for them . um how d how does a remote control look and feel for them , and what improvements would would they like to remote control . and we did that by sort of giving them a questionnaire that we 'd prepared and asking them to fill in the answers . and three quarters of them found that remote controls are ugly and that a sort of even higher proportion would spend more for a sort of s uh a fancier remote control and that of all the buttons on the remote control , the sort of setting buttons for sort of the picture picture and brightness and the audio settings , um they were n't used very often at all . people concentrated on the channel buttons and the volume buttons and the power buttons . uh we also asked them about speech recognition uh for remote control . and young people were quite receptive to this , but as soon as we got sort of over about into a thirty five to forty age forty five age group and older , people people were n't quite so keen on speech recognition . there 's a lot more th there 's a lot lot more older people who did n't know whether they wanted it or not as well . um we also asked what frustrated people about remote controls and the number one frustration was that the remote was lost somewhere else in the room and that they could n't find it . and the second second biggest frustration what that if they got a new remote control , it was difficult to learn um all the buttons and all the functions , and to find your way around it . okay , so my personal preferences from the marketing is that we need to come up with some sort of sleek sort of good looking high high-tech a design which looks high-tech , basically . um and that we should come up with fewer buttons than most of the controls on the market , and we should sort of concentrate on the channels and sort of power , and also volume and that sort of thing , as as louisa said . um we could maybe come up with a menu , a sort of a an lcd menu for other functions on the remote control . that 's worth thinking about . um and maybe we could think about speech recognition as well , because um sort of young people are perhaps the ones that are gon na buy buy our new product if we aim it at sort of you know sort of a high-tech design . that that might be the market that we 're we 're looking for . and we could maybe think about using speech recogniti recognition as a way to find the remote control if it 's lost in a room , rather than sort of um having it to speech recognition to change the channels . 'cause there 's a problem with that in that the television makes noise , so it could end up talking to itself and changing its channel . okay um , and that 's the end of the slide show . that 's it . cool . project manager : what was that last wee bit there ? user interface : do a lot of um marketing : um about speech recognition ? project manager : speech recognition , user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : but that was only for young people that preferred it , older people did n't . marketing : youn young people pref yeah , they s they said that they 'd be interested in a remote control which offered that possibility and as you go up through the age groups , people got less and less interested in sort of a a remote control that you could talk to , so . industrial designer : no what i maybe think is um it seems the technology would be quite advanced for that and they might end up costing more than our twelve fifty budget for for the speech recognition . um . project manager : well that 's right . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and possibly the thing about the about the remote being lost we could have you know with your mobile phone , you lose that and you can ring it . maybe we can have some kind of sensor which is kept somewhere where you can some kind of buzzer system between the two . so you can press a button which is always kept in one place marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and then it maybe buzzes to somewhere else , wherever the remote actually is . marketing : uh-huh . yeah . yeah , we 'd have t that would mean we 'd have to put two products together as well , industrial designer : that is true , yes . marketing : which which again would probably be a bit expensive , but user interface : there 's key rings um that you kind of whistle at or clap at , i ca n't remember , and then they whistle back , or something like that . marketing : yeah . project manager : sounds reasonable . user interface : that 'd probably be really simple , marketing : yeah . user interface : they 're cheap . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . so industrial designer : so i guess it 'd be something we could like attach to the or like the same technology could be put inside the inside the remote . project manager : well if you 're trying to avoid having a second product 'cause obviously you could have a second product that gave you the right pitch which would set the remote off to say here i am sort of thing , you know without sound recognition . but if you i know . um i was gon na say a sharp noise , you know a clapping of hand or whatever . you 'd want to try and av just have the one product that if industrial designer : yeah . yeah if we if we could have it in the actual remote like everything in one one device . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : yeah . um i dunno um talking about vo i mean obviously if you 've got voice recognition then you can do it in that way because it 'll recognise the voice and you can give it a command , a set command whatever that happened to be . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : but you 've then got the point if if you 're not going with uh voice recognition then industrial designer : you could have an option to turn it off . or marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : perhaps , um . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so that would solve the problems with the tv kind of speaking to the remote and changing its own channels . marketing : project manager : so uh any sugges well , any conclusions ? marketing : um would it take quite a while to sort of develop the speech recognition software in the remote control ? user interface : project manager : well if it does then we ca n't . marketing : considering project manager : it 's that simple , marketing : yeah . project manager : because we 've got uh th th three um primary um uh requisites from uh from and email uh that was sent to me whereby we had the design logo was one , which we 've already mentioned . we 've got um the remote was only for the television and not for because that would make it too complex and we have to get it market quickly . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and the uh third thing was that um teletext uh as far as uh the management is concerned , um is becoming dated uh due to the popularity of the internet . so that means that uh industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : okay . project manager : so these are the sort of three um extra parameters that have been put on this uh project . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so we 're being focused effectively directly at a television and it seems to me that the management is uh wanting us to go down a narrow path and not opening out . so anything that uh is to be added , such as voice recognition et cetera has to be very simple and has to be very quick industrial designer : has to be simple enough to project manager : because time to market is is critical . s industrial designer : i suppose if we could get something in which was quite quick and simple that would give us an advantage over the other remotes . um . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : it would . but probably quick and simple is primary rather than added extras . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : added extras would be nice , but the primary consideration is to get the project finished within uh this short time window , which effectively now is sort of four hours . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so and if and we 've got ta get to the end . uh d d i think i think first and foremost we 've got ta get to the end and then get to the end with um added extras if possible . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> what did marketing suggest about the functions of the remote ? </s> marketing : right , we 've done some research into the functional requirements that people want out of their remote control . and first off we should state that th the remote control 's for controlling the tv and um how do people use it ? we asked them sort of which buttons were useful for them . um how d how does a remote control look and feel for them , and what improvements would would they like to remote control . and we did that by sort of giving them a questionnaire that we 'd prepared and asking them to fill in the answers . and three quarters of them found that remote controls are ugly and that a sort of even higher proportion would spend more for a sort of s uh a fancier remote control and that of all the buttons on the remote control , the sort of setting buttons for sort of the picture picture and brightness and the audio settings , um they were n't used very often at all . people concentrated on the channel buttons and the volume buttons and the power buttons . uh we also asked them about speech recognition uh for remote control . and young people were quite receptive to this , but as soon as we got sort of over about into a thirty five to forty age forty five age group and older , people people were n't quite so keen on speech recognition . there 's a lot more th there 's a lot lot more older people who did n't know whether they wanted it or not as well . um we also asked what frustrated people about remote controls and the number one frustration was that the remote was lost somewhere else in the room and that they could n't find it . and the second second biggest frustration what that if they got a new remote control , it was difficult to learn um all the buttons and all the functions , and to find your way around it . okay , so my personal preferences from the marketing is that we need to come up with some sort of sleek sort of good looking high high-tech a design which looks high-tech , basically . um and that we should come up with fewer buttons than most of the controls on the market , and we should sort of concentrate on the channels and sort of power , and also volume and that sort of thing , as as louisa said . um we could maybe come up with a menu , a sort of a an lcd menu for other functions on the remote control . that 's worth thinking about . um and maybe we could think about speech recognition as well , because um sort of young people are perhaps the ones that are gon na buy buy our new product if we aim it at sort of you know sort of a high-tech design . that that might be the market that we 're we 're looking for . and we could maybe think about using speech recogniti recognition as a way to find the remote control if it 's lost in a room , rather than sort of um having it to speech recognition to change the channels . 'cause there 's a problem with that in that the television makes noise , so it could end up talking to itself and changing its channel . okay um , and that 's the end of the slide show . that 's it . cool . project manager : what was that last wee bit there ? user interface : do a lot of um marketing : um about speech recognition ? project manager : speech recognition , user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : but that was only for young people that preferred it , older people did n't . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think about the idea of speech recognition when discussing the function of the remote ? </s> marketing : okay um , and that 's the end of the slide show . that 's it . cool . project manager : what was that last wee bit there ? user interface : do a lot of um marketing : um about speech recognition ? project manager : speech recognition , user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : but that was only for young people that preferred it , older people did n't . marketing : youn young people pref yeah , they s they said that they 'd be interested in a remote control which offered that possibility and as you go up through the age groups , people got less and less interested in sort of a a remote control that you could talk to , so . industrial designer : no what i maybe think is um it seems the technology would be quite advanced for that and they might end up costing more than our twelve fifty budget for for the speech recognition . um . project manager : well that 's right . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> grad g : time . grad c : thanks . grad g : are you fey ? undergrad d : i am fey , yeah . grad b : what day is today ? grad g : hi . i think we 've met before , like , i remember talking to you about aspect or something like that at some point or other . undergrad d : a couple times yeah . grad f : it 's the uh twenty nineteenth . grad b : nineteenth ? undergrad d : that 's right , yeah . and you were my gsi briefly , until i dropped the class . grad b : right , right . grad g : oh that 's right . well . grad c : ok , wh wh grad g : no offense . grad c : yeah . grad g : like . grad c : ok . some in some introductions are in order . grad g : oh , ok sorry . getting ahead of myself . grad c : so . um . for those who do n't know everyone knows me , this is great . um , apart from that , sort of the old gang , johno and bhaskara have been with us from from day one and um they 're engaged in in various activities , some of which you will hear about today . ami is um our counselor and spiritual guidance and um also interested in problems concerning reference of the more complex type , phd a : well . grad e : oh wow . grad c : and um he sits in as a interested participant and helper . is that a good characterization ? phd a : u that 's pretty good , i think . grad c : i do n't know . phd a : yeah . thanks . grad c : ok . keith is not technically one of us yet , grad e : not yet . grad c : ha - ha . but um it 's too late for him now . grad g : `` one of us . `` grad e : yeah right . i 've got the headset on after all . grad c : um . officially i guess he will be joining us in the summer . and um hopefully it is by by means of keith that we will be able to get a b a better formal and a better semantic um idea of what a construction is and um how we can make it work for us . additionally his interest um surpasses um english because it also entails german , an extra capability of speaking and writing and understanding and reading that language . and um , is there anyone who does n't know nancy ? do you do you know nancy ? grad e : i know nancy . grad g : mm - hmm . grad b : i made that joke already , nancy , sadly . grad g : what ? grad b : the `` i do n't know myself `` joke . grad g : you did ? when ? grad b : uh before you came in . grad g : about me or you ? grad b : about me . grad g : ok . ok . phd a : you could do it about you . grad b : yeah . grad g : well i did n't know . i did n't mean to be humor copying , but ok , sorry . yes , i know myself . it 's ok . it 's a grad c : and um fey is with us as of six days ago officially ? undergrad d : officially , grad c : officially , undergrad d : yeah . grad c : but in reality already um much much longer and um um next to some some more or less bureaucratic uh stuff with the the data collection she 's also the wizard in the data collection um , grad g : of oz . undergrad d : it 's very exciting . grad c : we 're sticking with the term `` wizard `` , and um grad g : not witch - like . grad b : wizardette . grad e : wizard . grad f : wizardess . grad c : sorceress , i think . undergrad d : wizard . grad c : wizard uh by by popular vote grad g : did n't take a vote ? ok . grad c : ok , um , why do n't we get started on that subject anyways . um , so we 're about to collect data and um the uh s the following things have happened since we last met . when will we three meet again ? and um grad g : more than three of us . grad c : what happened is that um , `` a `` , { comment } there was some confusion between you and jerry with the that leading to your talking to catherine snow , and he was uh he he agreed completely that some something confusing happened . um his idea was to get sort of the l the lists of mayors of the department , the students . it it 's exactly how you interpreted it , sort of s grad e : the list of majors in the department ? undergrad d : m m majors ? grad c : ma - majors , majors . undergrad d : majors ? grad c : `` mayors `` . undergrad d : ok , mayor grad c : majors . undergrad d : something i do n't know about these grad g : the department has many mayors . grad c : majors and um just sending the the little write - up that we did on to those email lists undergrad d : ok . ok . yeah , yeah , yeah . but yeah . grad c : uh undergrad d : so it was really carol snow who was confused , not me and not jerry . grad c : yep , yep , yep . ok . so . so , that is uh undergrad d : that 's good . so i should still do that . grad c : and undergrad d : and using the thing that you wrote up . grad c : wonderful . and um we have a little description of asking peop subjects to contact fey for you know recruiting them for our thing and um there was some confusion as to the consent form , which is basically that that what what you just signed grad g : right . grad c : and since we have one already um grad g : did jerry talk to you about maybe using our class ? the students in the undergrad class that he 's teaching ? grad c : um well he said um we definitely `` yes `` , however there is always more people in a in a facul uh in a department than are just taking his class or anybody else 's class at the moment grad g : yeah . grad c : and one should sort of reach out and try and get them all . grad g : ok , but th i guess it 's that um people in his class cover a different set so than the c is the cogsci department that you were talking about ? undergrad d : i guess . see grad g : uh reaching out to ? undergrad d : that 's what i suggested to him , that people like like jerry and george and et cetera just grad g : cuz we have you know people from other areas grad c : yeah . grad g : advertise in their classes as well . undergrad d : yeah or even i could you know i could do the actual grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : cuz i mean i i know how to contact our students , undergrad d : that 's generally the way it 's done . grad g : so if there 's something that you 're sending out you can also s um send me a copy , grad c : yeah . grad g : me or bhaskara could either of us could post it to uh is it undergrad d : a mailing list . grad g : if it 's a general solicitation that you know is just contact you then we can totally pro post it to the news group grad c : mm - hmm . yeah . undergrad d : yeah . grad c : do it . yeah . undergrad d : that 's grad g : ok , so you 'll send it or something so . grad c : as a matter of fact , if you undergrad d : i can send it . grad c : if undergrad d : i 'll send it , grad g : you can send it to me . grad c : now , i undergrad d : yeah . grad g : ok . do n't worry , we this does n't concern you anymore , robert . grad c : how however i suggest that if you if you look at your email carefully you may think you may find that you already have it . grad g : it 's fine . oops . already ? really ? grad c : maybe . undergrad d : probab grad g : oops . grad c : ok . w we 'll see . grad g : i do n't remember getting anything . grad c : anyhow , um the uh yeah , not only also we will talk about linguistics and of course computer science . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : um and then , secondly , we had , you may remember , um the problem with the re - phrasing , that subject always re - phrase sort of the task that uh we gave them , grad b : right . grad c : and so we had a meeting on friday talking about how to avoid that , and it proved finally fruitful in the sense that we came up with a new scenario for how to get the the subject m to really have intentions and sort of to act upon those , and um there the idea is now that next actually we we need to hire one more person to actually do that job because it it 's getting more complicated . so if you know anyone interested in in what i 'm about to describe , tell that person to to write a mail to me or jerry soon , fast . um the idea now is to sort of come up with a high level of sort of abstract tasks `` go shopping `` um `` take in uh a batch of art `` um `` visit do some sightseeing `` blah - blah - blah - blah - blah , sort of analogous to what fey has started in in in compiling compiling here and already she has already gone to the trouble of of anchoring it with specific um o { comment } um entities and real world places you will find in heidelberg . and um . so out of these f s these high level categories the subject can pick a couple , such as if if there is a cop uh a category in emptying your roll of film , the person can then decide `` ok , i wan na do that at this place `` , sort of make up their own itinerary a and and tasks and the person is not allowed to take sort of this h high level category list with them , but uh the person is able to take notes on a map that we will give him and the map will be a tourist 's sort of schematic representation with with symbols for the objects . and so , the person can maybe make a mental note that `` ah yeah i wanted to go shopping here `` and `` i wanted to maybe take a picture of that `` and `` maybe um eat here `` and then goes in and solves the task with the system , ie { comment } fey , and um and we 're gon na try out that any questions ? grad g : so um y you 'll have those say somewhere what their intention was so you still have the the nice thing about having data where you know what the actual intention was ? grad c : mm - hmm . yeah . grad g : but they will um there 's nothing that says you know `` these are the things you want to do `` so they 'll say `` well these are the things i want to do `` and right , so they 'll have a little bit more natural interaction ? grad c : hopefully . grad g : ok . mm - hmm . grad f : so they 'll be given this map , which means that they wo n't have to like ask the system for in for like high level information about where things are ? grad c : yeah it 's a schematic tourist map . so it 'll be uh i it 'll still require the that information and an grad g : it w it does n't have like streets on it that would allow them to figure out their way grad c : n not not not really the street network . nuh . grad e : so you 're just saying like what part of town the things are in or whatever ? grad c : yeah a and um the map is more a means for them to have the buildings and their names and maybe some ma ma major streets and their names grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and we want to maybe ask them , if you have get it sort of isolated street the the , whatever , `` river street `` , and they know that they have decided that , yes , that 's where they want to do this kind of action um that they have it with them and they can actually read them or sort of have the label for the object because it 's too hard to memorize all these st strange german names . and then we 're going to have another we 're gon na have w another trial run ie the first with that new setup tomorrow at two and we have a real interesting subject which is ron kay for who those who know him , he 's the founder of ici . so he 'll he 's around seven seventy years old , or something . grad g : i did n't know he was the founder . that 's ok . grad c : and he also approached me and he offered to help um our project and he was more thinking about some high level thinking tasks and i said `` sure we need help you can come in as a subject `` and he said `` ok `` . so that 's what 's gon na happen , tomorrow , data . grad g : using this new new um plan , grad c : new new set up . yeah . which i 'll hopefully sort of scrape together t but , thanks to fey , we already have sort of a nice blueprint and i can work with that . questions ? comments on that ? if not , we can move on . no ? no more questions ? grad e : i 'm not sure i totally understand this grad g : so what 's the s this is what you made , fey ? grad e : but i 'm not sure i totally understand everything that 's being talked about grad g : like so so it 's just based on like the materials you had about heidelberg . grad c : um are you familiar with with the with the very rough setup of the data ? grad e : but i i imagine i 'll c just catch on . undergrad d : based on the web site , yeah , at the grad g : oh ok there 's a web site grad c : experiment ? undergrad d : right . grad g : and then you could like um figure out what the cate undergrad d : it 's a tourist information web site , grad e : uh , this is where they 're supposed to grad c : talk to a machine and it breaks down and then the human comes on . grad e : yeah . yeah . grad c : the question is just sort of how do we get the tasks in their head that they have an intention of doing something and have a need to ask the system for something without giving them sort of a clear wording or phrasing of the task . grad e : ok . ok . ok . grad c : because what will happen then is that people repeat repeat , { comment } or as much as they can , of that phrasing . grad g : hmm . um , are you worried about being able to identify um . the the goals that we 've d you guys have been talking about are this these you know identifying which of three modes um their question uh concerns . grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : so it 's like the enter versus view grad c : yeah , we we we will sort of get a protocol of the prior interaction , grad g : uh - huh . grad c : right ? that 's where the instructor , the person we are going to hire , um and the subjects sit down together with these high level things grad g : uh - huh . mm - hmm . grad c : and so th the q first question for the subject is , `` so these are things , you know , we thought a tourist can do . is there anything that interests you ? `` grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and the person can say `` yeah , sure sh this is something i would do . i would go shopping `` . yeah ? and then we can sort of this s instructor can say `` well , uh then you you may want to find out how to get over here grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : because this is where the shopping district is `` . grad g : so the interaction beforehand will give them hints about how specific or how whatever though the kinds of questions that are going to ask during the actual session ? grad c : no . just sort of ok , what what what would you like to buy and then um ok there you wan na buy a whatever cuckoos clocks grad g : yeah . grad c : ok and the there is a store there . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : so the task then for that person is t finding out how to get there , right ? grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : that 's sort of what 's left . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and we know that the intention is to enter because we know that the person wants to buy a cuckoos clock . grad g : ok , that 's what i mean so like those tasks are all gon na be um unambiguous about which of the three modes . grad c : hopefully . grad g : right . ok . so . phd a : well , so the idea is to try to get the actual phrasing that they might use and try to interfere as little as possible with their choice of words . grad c : hopefully . grad g : t that they 'll be here ? grad c : yes . in a sense that 's exactly the the the idea , which is never possible in a in a s in a lab situation , phd a : well , u u the one experiment th that that that i 've read somewhere , it was they u used pictures . so to to uh actually um uh specify the the tasks . grad e : mm - hmm . phd a : uh , but you know i i grad c : yeah . we had exactly that on our list of possible way things so we uh i even made a sort of a silly thing how that could work , how you control you are here you you want to know how to get someplace , and this is the place and it 's a museum and you want to do some and and and there 's a person looking at pictures . so , you know , this is exactly getting someplace with the intention of entering and looking at pictures . phd a : right . grad c : however , not only was the common census were among all participants of friday 's meeting was it 's gon na be very laborious to to make these drawings for each different things , phd a : right . grad c : all the different actions , if at all possible , and also people will get caught up in the pictures . so all of a sudden we 'll get descriptions of pictures in there . phd a : right . grad c : and people talking about pictures and pictorial representations and um phd a : right . grad c : i would s i would still be willing to try it . phd a : i mean , i i 'm i 'm not saying it 's necessary but but uh i uh uh i you might be able to combine you know text uh and and some sort of picture and also uh i think it it will be a good idea to show them the text and kind of chew the task and then take the test away the the the the the text away grad c : mm - hmm . yeah . phd a : so that they are not uh guided by by by what you wrote , grad c : we will phd a : but can come up with their with their own grad c : yeah , they will have no more linguistic matter in front of them when they enter this room . phd a : right . grad c : ok . then i suggest we move on to the to we have um uh the edu project , let me make one more general remark , has sort of two two side uh um actions , its um action items that we 're do dealing with , one is modifying the smartkom parser and the other one is modifying the smartkom natural language generation module . and um this is not too complicated but i 'm just mentioning it put it in the framework because this is something we will talk about now . um , i have some news from the generation , do you have news from the parser ? grad f : um , not grad c : by that look i grad f : yes , uh , i would really p it would be better if i talked about it on friday . if that 's ok . grad c : yeah , wonderful . um , did you run into problems or did you run into not h having time ? grad f : yeah . but not not any time part . grad c : ok , so that 's good . that 's better than running into problems . and um i i do have some good news for the natural language generation however . and the good news is i guess it 's done . uh , meaning that tilman becker , who does the german one , actually took out some time and already did it in english for us . and so the version he 's sending us is already producing the english that 's needed to get by in version one point one . grad f : so i take it that was similar to the what what we did for the parsing ? grad c : yeah . i i it even though the generator is a little bit more complex and it would have been , not changing one hundred words but maybe four hundred words , but it would have been but this this is i guess good news , and the uh the time and especially bhaskara and uh and um oh do i have it here ? no . the time is now pretty much fixed . it 's the last week of april until the fourth of may so it 's twenty - sixth through fourth . that they 'll be here . so it 's it 's extremely important that the two of you are also present in this town during that time . grad b : wait , what what are the days ? april twenty - sixth to the may fourth ? grad c : yeah , something like that . grad b : i 'll probably be here . grad c : it 's grad f : yeah . grad e : you will be here . grad c : there is a d is n't finals coming up then pretty much after that ? grad f : finals was that . grad g : yeah w it does n't really have much meaning to grad students but final projects might . grad f : yeah actually , that 's true . grad g : that grad c : anyway , so this is grad b : well i 'll be here working on something . guaranteed , it 's just uh will i be here , you know , in uh i 'll be here too actually but grad c : no it 's just um you know they 're coming for us so that we can bug them and ask them more questions and sit down together and write sensible code and they can give some nice talks and stuff . but uh grad b : but it 's not like we need to be with them twenty - four hours a day s for the seven days that they 're here . grad c : just make a not not unless you really really want to . grad e : they 're very dependent grad c : not unless you really want to . and they 're both nice guys so you may may want to . ok , that much from the parser and generator side , unless there are more questions on that . grad g : so , no sample generator output yet ? grad c : no . it just a mail that , you know , he 's sending me the the the stuff soon grad g : ok . this is being sent , mm - hmm . ok . grad c : and i was completely flabbergasted here grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and i and that 's also it 's it 's going to produce the concept - to - speech uh blah - blah - blah information for necessary for one point one in english based on the english , you know , in english . so . i was like `` ok , grad e : we 're done . grad c : we 're done ! `` grad g : so that was like one of the first l you know , the first task was getting it working for english . so that 's basically over now . is that right ? grad c : yeah . grad g : so the basic requirement fulfilled . grad c : um , the basic requirement is fulfilled almost . when andreas stolcke and and his gang , grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : when they have um changed the language model of the recognizer and the dictionary , then we can actually a put it all together grad g : mm - hmm . so the speech recognizer also works . uh - huh . mm - hmm . grad c : and you can speak into it and ask for tv and movie information grad e : toll . grad c : and then when if if something actually happens and some answers come out , then we 're done . grad g : mm - hmm . if and they 're kind of correct . grad e : so it 's not done basically . grad g : and they kind of are are correct . grad e : right . perhaps if the answers have something to do with the questions for example . grad g : it 's not just like anything . and they 're mostly in english . so . grad c : then um grad g : are they is it using the database ? the german tv movie . grad c : yeah . grad g : ok . so all the actual data might be german names ? grad c : um well actually th um grad g : or are they all like american tv programs ? grad c : um well grad e : i want to see `` die dukes von hazard `` grad c : the ok , so you do n't know how the german dialogue uh the german the demo dialogue actually works . it works the first thing is what 's , you know , showing on tv , and then the person is presented with what 's running on tv in germany on that day , on that evening grad g : mm - hmm , mm - hmm . grad c : and so you take one look at it and then you say `` well that 's really nothing there 's nothing for me there `` `` what 's running in the cinemas ? `` so maybe there 's something better happening there . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and then you get you 're shown what movies play which films , and it 's gon na be of course all the heidelberg movies and what films they are actually showing . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and most of them are going to be hollywood movies . so , `` american beauty `` is `` american beauty `` , right ? yeah . grad e : mm - hmm . grad g : right . grad c : and um . grad g : but they 're shown like on a screen . it 's a i mean so would the generator , like the english language sentence of it is `` these are the follow you know the following films are being shown `` or something like that ? grad c : yeah , but it in that sense it does n't make in that case uh it does n't really make sense to read them out loud . grad g : s right . grad c : if you 're displaying them . grad g : so it 'll just display ok . grad c : but uh it 'll tell you that this is what 's showing in heidelberg and there you go . grad g : so we do n't have to worry about um yeah . grad c : and the presentation agent will go `` hhh ! `` { comment } nuh ? like that the avatar . and um . and then you pick pick a movie and and and it show shows you the times and you pick a time and you pick seats and all of this . so . pretty straightforward . but it 's so this time we we are at an advantage because it was a problem for the german system to incorporate all these english movie titles . grad g : yeah . grad c : nuh ? but in english , that 's not really a problem , grad g : right . mm - hmm . grad c : unless we get some some topical german movies that have just come out and that are in their database . so the person may select `` huehner rennen `` or whatever . grad g : right . grad e : `` chicken run `` . grad c : ok . then uh on to the modeling . right ? grad b : yeah , yeah , i guess . grad c : um then modeling , there it is . grad e : ok . what 's the next thing ? grad c : this is very rough but this is sort of what um johno and i managed to come up with . the idea here is that grad b : this is the uh s the schema of the xml here , not an example or something like that . grad c : yeah this is not an xml this is sort of towards an a schema , phd a : right . grad c : nuh ? definition . the idea is , so , imagine we have a library of schema such as the source - path - goal and then we have forced uh motion , we have cost action , grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : we have a whole library of schemas . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and they 're gon na be , you know , fleshed out in in their real ugly detail , source - path - goal , and there 's gon na be s a lot of stuff on the goal and blah - blah - blah , that a goal can be and so forth . what we think is and all the names could should be taken `` cum grano salis `` . so . this is a the fact that we 're calling this `` action schema `` right now should not entail that we are going to continue calling this `` action schema `` . but what that means is we have here first of all on the in the in the first iteration a stupid list of source - path - goal actions grad b : actions that can be categorized with or that are related to source - path - goal . grad c : wi to that schema grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and we will have you know forced motion and cost action actions . grad b : and then those actions can be in multiple categories at the same time if necessary . grad c : so a push may be in in in both you know push uh in this or this uh grad g : forced motion and caused action for instance , grad c : exactly . yeah . also , these things may or may not get their own structure in the future . so this is something that , you know , may also be a res as a result of your work in the future , we may find out that , you know , there 're really s these subtle differences between um even within the domain of entering in the light of a source - path - goal schema , that we need to put in fill in additional structure up there . but it gives us a nice handle . so with this we can basically um you know s slaughter the cow any anyway we want . uh . it it is it was sort of a it gave us some headache , how do we avoid writing down that we have sort of the enter source - path - goal that this but this sort of gets the job done in that respect and maybe it is even conceptually somewhat adequate in a sense that um we 're talking about two different things . we 're talking more on the sort of intention level , up there , and more on the this is the your basic bone um schema , down there . grad b : uh one question , robert . when you point at the screen is it your shadow that i 'm supposed to look at ? grad g : yeah . it 's the shadow . grad b : ok . whereas i keep looking where your hand is , and it does n't grad c : well , that would n't have helped you at all . grad b : yeah . grad g : right . grad b : basically , what this is is that there 's an interface between what we are doing and the action planner grad e : spit right here . grad b : and right now the way the interface is `` action go `` and then they have the what the person claimed was the source and the person claimed as the goal passed on . grad g : mm - hmm . grad b : and the problem is , is that the current system does not distinguish between goes of type `` going into `` , goes of type `` want to go to a place where i can take a picture of `` , et cetera . grad c : so this is sort of what it looks like now , some simple `` go `` action from it from an object named `` peter 's kirche `` of the type `` church `` to an object named `` powder - tower `` of the type `` tower `` . right ? grad g : this is the uh what the action planner uses ? grad b : right . currently . grad g : this is ok . grad c : currently . grad g : and is that and tha that 's changeable ? or not ? grad c : yeah , well grad g : like are we adapting to it ? or grad c : we this is the output , sort of , of the natural language understanding , grad g : oh , yeah . grad c : right ? grad g : uh - huh . grad c : the input into the action planning , as it is now . grad g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad c : and what we are going to do , we going to and you can see here , and again for johno please please focus the shadow , um we 're gon uh uh here you have the action and the domain object and w and on on grad g : what did you think he was doing ? grad b : i just grad g : ok , sorry . grad e : a laser pointer would be most appropriate here i think . grad c : yeah i i um have i have no grad b : robert likes to be abstract and that 's what i just thought he was doing . grad g : you look up here . grad c : sort of between here and here , so as you can see this is on one level and we are going to add another um `` struct `` , if you want , ie a rich action description on that level . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : so in the future grad g : so it 's just an additional information grad c : exactly . in the future though , the content of a hypothesis will not only be an object and an an action and a domain object but an action , a domain object , and a rich action description , grad g : right ? that does n't hurt the current way . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad b : which which we 're abbreviating as `` rad `` . grad c : which is grad g : good . grad f : so um you had like an action schema and a source - path - goal schema , grad g : hmm . hmm . mm - hmm . grad f : right ? so how does this source - path - goal schema fit into the uh action schema ? like is it one of the tags there ? grad g : yeah can you go back to that one ? grad b : so the source - path - goal schema in this case , i 've if i understand how we described we set this up , um cuz we 've been arguing about it all week , but uh we 'll hold the the well in this case it will hold the i mean the the features i guess . i 'm not it 's hard for me to exactly s so basically that will store the the object that is w the source will store the object that we 're going from , the goal will store the the f grad e : mm - hmm . grad g : so the fillers of the role source . grad b : we 'll fill those in fill those roles in , right ? grad c : yeah . grad b : the s action - schemas basically have extra see we so those are schemas exist because in case we need extra information instead of just making it an attribute and which which is just one thing we we decided to make it 's own entity so that we could explode it out later on in case there is some structure that that we need to exploit . grad g : ok , so th sorry i just do n't kn um um um this is just uh xml mo notational but um the fact that it 's action schema and then sort of slash action schema that 's a whole entit grad b : that 's a block , yeah . grad g : that 's a block , whereas source is just an attribute ? grad c : no , no , no . grad g : is that grad c : source is just not spelled out here . source meaning source will be uh will have a name , a type , maybe a dimensionality , grad g : oh , ok , ok . grad c : maybe canonical uh orientation grad g : uh - huh , uh - huh . ok could it it could also be blocked out then as grad b : yeah , the so yeah . grad c : s source it will be , you know we 'll f we know a lot about sources so we 'll put all of that in source . but it 's independent whether we are using the spg schema in an enter , view , or approach mode , right ? grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : this is just properties of the spg { comment } schema . we can talk about paths being the fastest , the quickest , the nicest and so forth , uh or or and the trajector should be coming in there as well . and then g the same about goals . grad g : ok . so i guess the question is when you actually fill one of these out , it 'll be under action schema ? those are it 's gon na be one y you 'll pick one of those for grad b : right . grad g : ok these are this is just a layout of the possible that could go play that role . grad b : right , so the the the roles will be filled in with the schema grad g : ok , go it . uh - huh . grad b : and then what actual a action is chosen is will be in the in the action schema section . grad g : ok . ok . s s ok , so one question . this was in this case it 's all um clear , sort of obvious , but you can think of the enter , view and approach as each having their roles , right ? the i mean it 's it 's implicit that the person that 's moving is doing entering viewing and approaching , but you know the usual thing is we have bindings between sort of they 're sort of like action specific roles and the more general source - path - goal specific roles . so are we worrying about that or not for now ? grad c : yes , yes . since you bring it up now , we will worry about it . tell us more about it . what do you what do you grad g : what 's that ? oh i guess it i i may be just um reading this and interpreting it into my head in the way that i 've always viewed things and that that may or may not be what you guys intended . but if it is , then the top block is sort of like um , you know , you have to list exactly what x - schema or in this action schema , there 'll be a certain one , that has its own s structure and maybe it has stuff about that specific to entering or viewing or approaching , but those could include roles like the thing that you 're viewing , the thing that you 're entering , the thing that you 're grad e : so very specific role names are `` viewed thing `` , `` entered thing `` grad g : whatever , you know , that which are think think of enter , view and approach as frames grad c : mm - hmm . grad e : yeah . grad g : and they have frame - specific parameters and and roles grad c : yeah . grad g : and you can also describe them in a general way as source - path - goal schema and maybe there 's other image schemas that you could you know add after this that you know , how do they work in terms of you know a force dynamics grad c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm , mm - hmm , mm - hmm . grad g : or how do they work in f terms of other things . so all of those have um basically f either specific frame specific roles or more general frame specific roles that might have binding . so the question is are um how to represent when things are linked in a certain way . so we know for enter that there 's container potentially involved grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : and it 's not uh i do n't know if you wan na have in the same level as the action schema spg schema it it 's somewhere in there that you need to represent that there is some container and the interior of it corresponds to some part of the source - path - goal um you know goal uh goal i guess in this case . grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : so uh is there an easy way in this notation to show when there 's identity basically between things grad c : yeah . grad g : and i di do n't know if that 's something we need to invent or you know just grad b : the wa was n't there supposed to be a link in the grad f : right . grad b : i do n't know if this answers your question , i was just staring at this while you were talking , sorry . grad g : it 's ok . grad b : uh a link between the action schema , a field in the s in the schema for the image schemas that would link us to which action schema we were supposed to use so we could grad c : yeah . um , well that 's that 's one one thing is that we can link up , think also that um we can have one or m as many as we want links from from the schema up to the s action um description of it . but the notion i got from nancy 's idea was that we may f find sort of concepts floating around i in the a action description of the action f `` enter `` frame up there that are , e when you talk about the real world , actually identical to the goal of the the s source - path - goal schema , grad g : exactly . right , right . grad c : and do we have means of of telling it within that a and the answer is absolutely . grad g : right . grad c : the way we absolutely have those means that are even part of the m - three - l a api , grad g : yeah . oh great . s uh - huh . grad c : meaning we can reference . so meaning grad g : great . that 's exactly what is necessary . grad b : yeah . st grad c : and um . this referencing thing however is of temporary nature because sooner or later the w - three - c will be finished with their x - path , uh , um , specification and then it 's going to be even much nicer . then we have real means of pointing at an individual instantiation of one of our elements here grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and link it to another one , and this not only within a document but also via documents , grad g : mm - hmm . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : and and all in a v very easy e homogenous framework . grad g : so you know happen to know how what what `` sooner or later `` means like in practice ? grad c : that 's but it 's soon . grad g : or estimated . ok , ok . grad c : so it 's g it 's the spec is there and it 's gon na part of the m - three - l ap api filed by the end of this year so that this means we can start using it basically now . but this is a technical detail . grad g : mm - hmm . so a pointer a way to really say pointers . grad b : basically references from the roles in the schema the bottom schemas to the action schemas is wha uh i 'm assuming . grad g : yeah . ok , yeah . grad c : yeah . yeah , i mean personally , i 'm looking even more forward to the day when we 're going to have x forms , which l is a form of notation where it allows you to say that if the spg action up there is enter , then the goal type can never be a statue . grad g : ok . uh - huh . right . grad e : mm - hmm . grad g : so you have constraints that are dependent on the c actual s specific filler , uh , of some attribute . grad c : mm - hmm , yeah . w yeah e exactly . um , you know this , of course , does not make sense in light of the statue of liberty , grad g : uh - huh . grad c : however it is uh you know sort of these sort of things are imaginable . grad e : right . grad g : tsk . yeah . grad c : yeah ? grad f : s so um , like are you gon na have similar schemas for fm grad g : or the gateway arch in st . grad c : yeah . grad g : louis . so . grad f : like forced motion and caused action and stuff like you have for spg ? grad c : yeah . grad f : and if so like can are you able to enforce that you know if if it 's if it 's spg action then you have that schema , if it 's a forced motion then you have the other schema present in the grad c : um we have absolute no . we have absolutely no means of enforcing that , so it would be considered valid if we have an spg action `` enter `` and no spg schema , but a forced action schema . could happen . grad g : whi - which is not bad , because i mean , that there 's multiple sens i mean that particular case , there 's mult there there 's a forced side of of that verb as well . grad c : hmm . it maybe it means we had nothing to say about the source - path - goal . what 's also nice , and for a i for me in my mind it 's it 's crucially necessary , is that we can have multiple schemas and multiple action schemas in parallel . grad f : right . grad c : and um we started thinking about going through our bakery questions , so when i say `` is there a bakery here ? `` you know i do ultimately want our module to be able to first of all f tell the rest of the system `` hey this person actually wants to go there `` and `` b `` , { comment } that person actually wants to buy something to eat there . nuh ? and if these are two different schemas , ie the source - path - goal schema of getting there and then the buying snacks schema , nuh ? grad g : would they both be listed here in ok . under so o under action schema there 's a list that can include both both things . grad b : right . grad c : ye yeah , they they would both schemas would appear , so what is the uh is is there a `` buying s snacks `` schema ? grad e : snack action . grad g : that 's interesting . grad c : what is the uh have grad g : what ? grad c : the buying snack schema ? undergrad d : buying buying his food grad e : i 'm sure there 's a commercial event schema in there somewhere . grad g : oop . i d f grad c : yeah , a `` commercial event `` or something . grad g : yeah i i grad c : yeah ? so uh so we would we would instantiate the spg schema with a source - path - goal blah - blah - blah grad g : i see . grad c : and the buying event you know at which however that looks like , the place f thing to buy . grad g : uh - huh . uh - huh . interesting . would you say that the like i mean you could have a flat structure and just say these are two independent things , but there 's also this sort of like causal , well , so one is really facilitating the other and it 's part of a compound action of some kind , which has structure . grad c : yeah . now it 's technically possible that you can fit schema within schema , and schema within schemata grad g : uh i i think that 's nicer for a lot of reasons but might be a pain so uh grad c : um well , for me it seems that uh r yes . grad g : i mean there are truly times when you have two totally independent goals that they might express at once , but in this case it 's really like there 's a purpo means that you know f for achieving some other purpose . grad c : well , if i 'm if i 'm recipient of such a message and i get a source - path - goal where the goal is a bakery and then i get a commercial action which takes place in a bakery , right ? and and and they they are obviously , via identifiers , identified to be the same thing here . grad g : uh - huh . yeah . see that that bothers me that they 're the same thing . grad c : no , no , just the yeah ? grad g : yeah because they 're two different things one of which is l you could think of one a sub you know pru whatever pre - condition for the second . grad c : yeah , yeah ! grad g : right . yeah , yeah . so . so . ok . so there 's like levels of granularity . so uh there 's there 's um a single event of which they are both a part . and they 're independently they they are events which have very different characters as far as source - path - goal whatever . grad c : mm - hmm , yeah . grad g : so when you identify source - path - goal and whatever , there 's gon na to be a desire , whatever , eating , hunger , whatever other frames you have involved , they have to match up in in nice ways . so it seems like each of them has its own internal structure and mapping to these schemas grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : you know from the other but you know that 's just that 's just me . grad c : well , i think we 're gon na hit a lot of interesting problems grad g : like i i grad c : and as i prefaced it this is the result of one week of arguing about it grad g : mm - hmm . between you guys grad b : yeah . grad c : and um and so grad e : yeah i mean i i still am not entirely sure that i really fully grasp the syntax of this . grad b : well it 's not it 's not actually a very actually , it does n't actually grad c : um it occur it occurs to me that i mean ne grad e : you know , like what right . or the intended interpretation of this . grad c : um well i should have we should have added an ano an xml example , grad e : yeah . grad c : or some xml examples grad e : yeah . grad g : yeah that would be that would be nice . grad c : and and this is on on a on on my list of things until next next week . it 's also a question of the recursiveness and and a hier hierarchy um in there . grad g : yeah . yeah . grad c : do we want the schemas just blump blump blump blump ? i mean it 's if we can actually you know get it so that we can , out of one utterance , activate more than one schema , i mean , then we 're already pretty good , grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : right ? phd a : well well you have to be careful with that uh uh thing because uh i mean many actions presuppose some um almost infinitely many other actions . so if you go to a bakery you have a general intention of uh not being hungry . grad g : yeah . mayb - yeah . phd a : you have a specific intentions to cross the traffic light to get there . grad e : yeah . grad g : mm - hmm . phd a : you have a further specific intentions to left to lift your right foot and so uh uh i mean y you really have to focus on on on grad g : right . phd a : and decide the level of of abstraction that that you aim at it kind of zero in on that , grad c : yeah . grad g : right . phd a : and more or less ignore the rest , unless there is some implications that that you want to constant draw from from sub - tasks um that are relevant uh i mean but very difficult . grad g : m th the other thing that i just thought of is that you could want to go to the bakery because you 're supposed to meet your friend there or som phd a : yeah . grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : you know so you like being able to infer the second thing is very useful and probably often right . grad b : well the the the utterance was `` is there a bakery around here ? `` , grad g : but having them separate grad b : not `` i want to go to a bakery . `` grad g : well maybe their friend said they were going to meet them in a bakery around the area . phd a : right . grad g : and i 'm , yeah i 'm i 'm inventing contexts which are maybe unlikely , phd a : right . grad b : sure it ok . yeah . grad g : but yeah i mean like but it 's still the case that um you could you could override that default by giving extra information grad c : mm - hmm , yeah . grad g : which is to me a reason why you would keep the inference of that separate from the knowledge of `` ok they really want to know if there 's a bakery around here `` , grad c : yeah . grad g : which is direct . grad c : well there there there should never be a hard coded uh shortcut from the bakery question to the uh double schema thing , grad g : right . grad c : how uh and , as a matter of fact , when i have traveled with my friends we make these exactly these kinds of appointments . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : we o o grad e : mm - hmm . grad g : yeah . exactly . it 's i met someone at the bakery you know in the victoria station t you know train station london before , phd a : right . grad e : mm - hmm . yep . phd a : well . i have a question about the slot of the spg action . grad g : yeah . it 's like phd a : so the enter - view - approach the the the eva um , those are fixed slots in this particular action . every action of this kind will have a choice . or or or or will it just um uh is it change grad e : every spg every spg action either is an enter or a view or an approach , phd a : right , right . grad c : mm - hmm . grad e : right ? phd a : so so i i mean for for each particular action that you may want to characterize you would have some number of slots that define uh uh uh you know in some way what this action is all about . it can be either a , b or c . um . so is it a fixed number or or do you leave it open it could be between one and fifteen uh it 's it 's it 's flexible . grad c : um , the uh well , it sort of depends on on if you actually write down the the schema then you have to say it 's either one of them or it can be none , or it can be any of them . however the uh it seems to be sensible to me to r to view them as mutually exclusive um maybe even not . grad g : j do you mean within the source - path - goal actions ? phd a : uh ye uh uh b i uh i u i understand grad c : yeah . grad g : those three ? phd a : uh but grad c : and um how how where is the end ? so that 's phd a : no , no . there a a actually by i think my question is simpler than that , um is ok , so you have an spg action and and it has three different um uh aspects um because you can either enter a building or view it or or approach it and touch it or something . um now you define uh another action , it 's it 's called um uh s s p g - one grad c : forced action or forced motion . yeah . phd a : action a different action . um and this uh action - two would have various variable possibilities of interpreting what you would like to do . and i in in a way similar to either enter - view - approach you may want to send a letter , read a letter , or dictate a letter , let 's say . so , h grad b : oh the ok uh maybe i 'd the uh these actions i do n't know if i 'm gon na answer your question or not with this , but the categories inside of action schemas , so , spg action is a category . real although i think what we 're specifying here is this is a category where the actions `` enter , view and approach `` would fall into because they have a related source - path - goal schema in our tourist domain . cuz viewing in a tourist domain is going up to it and or actually going from one place to another to take a picture , in this in a phd a : right . oh , s so it 's sort of automatic derived fr from the structure that that is built elsewhere . grad b : derived i do n't know if i u grad e : this is a cate this a category structure here , grad b : right . grad e : right ? action schema . what are some types of action schemas ? well one of the types of action schemas is source - path - goal action . and what are some types of that ? and an enter , a view , an approach . grad b : right . grad e : those are all source - path - goal actions . grad b : inside of enter there will be roles that can be filled basically . so if i want to go from outside to inside then you 'd have the roles that need to filled , where you 'd have a source - path - goal set of roles . so you 'd the source would be outside and path is to the door or whatever , right ? phd a : right . grad b : so if you wanted to have a new type of action you 'd create a new type of category . then this category would we would put it or not necessarily we would put a new action in the m uh in the categories that in which it has the um well , every action has a set of related schemas like source - path - goal or force , whatever , right ? grad e : mm - hmm . phd a : right . grad b : so we would put `` write a letter `` in the categories uh that in which it had it w had uh schemas u grad e : there could be a communication event action or something like that grad b : exactly . grad c : mm - hmm . grad b : schemas uh that of that type . grad e : and you could write it . grad b : and then later , you know , there the we have a communication event action where we 'd define it down there as grad g : hmm . so there 's a bit a redundancy , right ? in in which the things that go into a particular you have categories at the top under action schema and the things that go under a particular category are um supposed to have a corresponding schema definition for that type . so i guess what 's the function of having it up there too ? i mean i guess i 'm wondering whether you could just have under action schema you could just sort of say whatever you know it 's gon na be enter , view or approach or whatever number of things grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : and pos partly because you need to know somewhere that those things fall into some categories . and it may be multiple categories as you say which is um the reason why it gets a little messy grad c : yeah . grad g : um but if it has if it 's supposed to be categorized in category x then the corresponding schema x will be among the structures that that follow . grad b : right . well , this is one of things we were arguing about . grad c : yeah . grad g : that 's like grad c : th this is this r grad g : ok , sorry . grad c : this is this is more this is probably the way that th that 's the way that seemed more intuitive to johno i guess grad g : you did n't tell me to grad c : also for a while for grad g : uh - huh . but now you guys have seen the light . grad c : no , no , no . uh we have not we have not seen the light . grad b : the the reason one reason we 're doing it this way is in case there 's extra structure that 's in the enter action that 's not captured by the schemas , grad g : i it 's easy to go back and forth is n't it ? uh - huh . i agree . right . right . grad b : right ? grad g : which is why i would think you would say enter and then just say all the things that are relevant specifically to enter . and then the things that are abstract will be in the abstract things as well . and that 's why the bindings become useful . grad b : right , but grad e : ri - you 'd like so you 're saying you could practically turn this structure inside out ? or something , or ? grad g : um ye - i see what you mean by that , grad c : no basically w grad g : but i i do n't if i would i would need to have t have that . grad c : get get rid of the sort of spg slash something uh or the sub - actions category , grad g : right . grad c : because what does that tell us ? grad g : uh - huh . yeah . grad c : um and i agree that you know this is something we need to discuss , grad g : i in fact what you could say is for enter , grad c : yeah . grad g : you could say `` here , list all the kinds of schemas that on the category that grad e : list all the parent categories . grad g : you know i list all the parent categories `` . it 's just like a frame hierarchy , grad e : yeah . grad g : right ? grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : like you have these blended frames . so you would say enter and you 'd say my parent frames are such - and - such , h and then those are the ones that actually you then actually define and say how the roles bind to your specific roles which will probably be f richer and fuller and have other stuff in there . grad e : yeah . this sounds like a paper i 've read around here recently in terms of grad g : yeah it could be not a coincidence . like i said , i 'm sure i 'm just hitting everything with a hammer that i developed , grad e : yeah . grad g : but i mean you know uh it 's i 'm just telling you what i think , you just hit the button and it 's like grad c : and , i guess fr uh grad e : yeah i mean but there 's a good question here . like , i mean uh do you when do you need damn this headset ! when you this uh , eh grad g : metacomment . grad e : yeah . { comment } that 's all recorded . um . why do you grad g : `` damn this project . `` no just kidding . grad e : i do n't know . like how do i how do i come at this question ? um . i just do n't see why you would i mean does th who uses this uh this data structure ? you know ? like , do you say `` alright i 'm going to uh do an spg action `` . and then you know somebody ne either the computer or the user says `` alright , well , i know i want to do a source - path - goal action so what are my choices among that ? `` and `` oh , ok , so i can do an enter - view - approach `` . it 's not like that , right ? it 's more like you say `` i want to , uh i want to do an enter . `` grad b : well only one of grad e : and then you 're more interested in knowing what the parent categories are of that . right ? so that the um the uh sort of representation that you were just talking about seems more relevant to the kinds of things you would have to do ? grad b : i 'd i i think i 'd i 'm not sure if i understand your question . only one of those things are gon na be lit up when we pass this on . so only enter will be if we if our if our module decided that enter is the case , view and approach will not be there . grad e : ok . ok . grad c : well uh it 's it sort of came into my mind that sometimes even two could be on , and would be interesting . grad g : yeah . grad c : um nevertheless um grad e : mayb - well maybe i 'm not understanding where this comes from and where this goes to . grad b : well in that case , we ca n't we ca n't w if if grad c : l let 's let 's not grad b : well the thing is if that 's the case we our i do n't think our system can handle that currently . grad e : what are we doing with this ? grad c : no , not at all . but u s t so grad e : in principle . grad g : `` approach and then enter . `` grad c : the i think the in some sense we we ex get the task done extremely well grad g : run like this uh grad c : because this is exactly the discussion we need need . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : period . no more qualifiers than that . so . grad g : no , this is the useful , grad c : and um and and i th i hope grad g : you know , don do n't worry . grad c : um uh let 's make a a a a sharper claim . we will not end this discussion anytime soon . grad g : yeah , i can guarantee that . grad c : and it 's gon na get more and more complex the the l complexer and larger our domains get . grad e : sigh . grad c : and i think um we will have all of our points in writing pretty soon . so this is nice about being being recorded also . the um grad e : right . undergrad d : that 's true . grad b : the r uh the in terms of why is it 's laid out like this versus some other grad c : the people grad e : yeah . yeah . grad b : um that 's kind of a contentious point between the two of us but this is one wa so this is a way to link uh the way these roles are filled out to the action . grad e : in my view . grad b : because if we know that enter is a t is an spg action , grad e : mm - hmm . grad b : right ? grad e : mm - hmm . grad b : we know to look for an spg schema and put the appropriate fill in the appropriate roles later on . grad e : mm - hmm . yeah . grad g : and you could have also indicated that by saying `` enter , what are the kinds of action i am ? `` grad c : mm - hmm , yeah . grad b : right . grad e : yeah . grad g : right ? so there 's just like sort of reverse organization , right ? so like unless @ @ are there reasons why one is better than the other i mean that come from other sources ? grad e : again grad c : yes because nobod no the modules do n't grad g : yeah . uh grad c : this is this is a schema that defines xml messages that are passed from one module to another , grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : mainly meaning from the natural language understanding , or from the deep language understanding to the action planner . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : now the the reason for for not using this approach is because you always will have to go back , each module will try have to go back to look up which uh you know entity can have which uh , you know , entity can have which parents , and then so you always need the whole body of of y your model um to figure out what belongs to what . or you always send it along with it , grad g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad c : nuh ? so you always send up `` here i am i am this person , and i can have these parents `` in every message . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : which e grad g : ok , so it 's just like a pain to have to send it . grad c : it may or may not be a just a pain it 's it 's i 'm completely willing to to to throw all of this away grad g : ok , i understand . grad c : and completely redo it , grad e : well grad c : you know and and and it after some iterations we may just do that . grad g : mm - hmm . grad e : i i would just like to ask um like , if it could happen for next time , i mean , just beca cuz i 'm new grad c : mm - hmm . grad e : and i do n't really just i just do n't know what to make of this and what this is for , and stuff like that , you know , so if someone could make an example of what would actually be in it , grad c : yeah . grad e : like first of all what modules are talking to each other using this , grad c : yeah , we i will promise for the next time to have fleshed out n { comment } xml examples for a a run through and and see how this this then translates , grad e : right ? and ok . grad c : and how this can come about , grad g : be great . grad c : nuh ? including the sort of `` miracle occurs here `` um part . grad e : right . grad c : and um is there more to be said ? i think um in principle what i i think that this approach does , and e e whether or not we take the enter - view and we all throw up up the ladder um wha how do how does professor peter call that ? grad g : yeah . grad c : the uh hhh , { comment } silence su sublimination ? throwing somebody up the stairs ? have you never read the peter 's principle anyone here ? grad e : nope . phd a : oh , uh grad f : people reach their level of uh max their level of at which they 're incompetent or whatever . phd a : yeah . grad c : maximum incompetence phd a : yeah . right , right . grad c : and then you can throw them up the stairs grad e : alright . grad c : um . yeah . phd a : promote them , yeah . grad c : ok , so we can promote enter - view all all up a bit and and get rid of the uh blah - blah - x - blah uh asterisk sub - action item altogether . no no problem with that and we w we we will play around with all of them but the principal distinction between having the the pure schema and their instantiations on the one hand , and adding some whatever , more intention oriented specification um on parallel to that that this approach seems to be uh workable to me . i do n't know . if you all share that opinion then that made my day much happier . grad b : this is a simple way to basically link uh roles to actions . grad g : uh yeah wait r yeah , yeah . that 's fine . grad b : that 's the that was the intent of of it , basically . grad e : sure . sure . grad g : uh that 's true . grad c : yeah . grad g : although um roles grad b : so i i do i 'm i 'm not grad c : i 'm i 'm never happy when he uses the word `` roles `` , grad g : yeah i i grad c : i 'm grad g : yeah . i was going to grad b : i b i mean rolls so grad g : bread rolls ? grad e : oh you meant pastries , then ? grad b : yeah , pastries is what i 'm talking about . grad g : pastry oh ba oh the bak bakery example . undergrad d : bakery . bakery . grad e : this is the bakery example . got it . alright . grad g : i see . right . ok . grad e : help ! grad g : i guess i 'll agree to that , then . grad c : ok . that 's all i have for today . oh no , there 's one more issue . bhaskara brought that one up . meeting time rescheduling . grad g : i n did n't you say something about friday , grad c : yeah . grad g : or ? hmm . grad c : so it looks like you have not been partaking , the monday at three o ' clock time has turned out to be not good anymore . so people have been thinking about an alternative time and the one we came up with is friday two - thirty ? three ? what was it ? grad b : you have class until two , right ? so if we do n't want him if we do n't want him to run over here grad f : mm - hmm . grad c : two - th two - thirty - ish or three or friday at three or something around that time . grad g : so do i . yeah . grad b : two thirty - ish or three is grad e : mm - hmm . grad f : yeah . yeah . e grad c : um how how are your grad g : that would be good . phd a : uh friday uh yeah , that 's fine . grad c : and i know that you have until three you 're busy ? grad e : uh undergrad d : yeah . phd a : yeah . grad g : so three is sounds good ? grad e : yeah . grad g : i 'll be free by then . grad e : i could do that . yeah i mean earlier on friday is better but three you know i mean if it were a three or a three thirty time then i would take the three or whatever , grad c : mm - hmm . grad e : but yeah sure three is fine . grad c : yeah , and you can always make it shortly after three probably . grad e : i mean . undergrad d : yeah , and i do n't need to be here particularly deeply . grad c : often , no , but uh , undergrad d : yeah . grad c : whenever . undergrad d : but yeah . grad c : you are more than welcome if you think that this kind of discussion gets you anywhere in in your life then uh you 're free to c undergrad d : it 's fascinating . grad g : `` that 's the right answer . `` undergrad d : i 'm just glad that i do n't have to work it out because . grad e : yeah . undergrad d : i 'm just glad that do n't have to work it out myself , that i 'm not involved at all in the working out of it because . grad c : uh but you 're a linguist . grad e : yeah . grad c : you should undergrad d : oh yeah . that 's why i 'm glad that i 'm not involved in working it out . phd a : so it 's at friday at three ? there that 's grad c : and um grad e : so already again this week , grad c : how diligent do we feel ? yeah . do feel that we have done our chores for this week or grad f : yeah . so i mean clearly there 's i can talk about the um the parser changes on friday at least , grad c : ok , bhaskara will do the big show on friday . grad g : and you guys will argue some more ? grad b : and between now and then yeah . grad e : yeah . between now and then . grad g : and have some ? grad c : we will r grad e : promise ? grad g : probably . phd a : yeah . grad b : we will . do n't worry . grad g : yeah . phd a : yeah . grad g : and we 'll get the summary like , this the c you know , short version , like phd a : an - and i would like to second keith 's request . an example wo would be nice t to have kind of a detailed example . grad e : yeah . grad c : yes . i 've i 've i 've i guess i 'm on record for promising that now . so um grad g : like have it we 'll have it in writing . so . or , better , speech . so . grad c : this is it and um grad b : the other good thing about it is jerry can be on here on friday and he can weigh in as well . grad c : yeah . and um if you can get that binding point also maybe with a nice example that would be helpful for johno and me . grad g : oh yeah uh ok . let 's uh yeah they 're grad c : give us undergrad d : no problem , grad e : i think you 've got one on hand , undergrad d : yeah . grad g : i have several in my head , yeah . always thinking about binding . grad c : well the the the binding is technically no problem but it 's it for me it seems to be conceptually important that we find out if we can s if if there if there are things in there that are sort of a general nature , we should distill them out and put them where the schemas are . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : if there are things that you know are intention - specific , then we should put them up somewhere , a grad g : so , in general they 'll be bindings across both intentions and the actions . grad c : yep . that 's wonderful . grad g : so yeah . so it 's gen it 's general across all of these things grad c : yeah . grad g : it 's like i mean shastri would say you know binding is like an essential cognitive uh process . so . um . so i do n't think it will be isolated to one or the two , but you can definitely figure out where yeah , sometimes things belong and so actually i 'm not sure i would be curious to see how separate the intention part and the action part are in the system . like i know the whole thing is like intention lattice , or something like that , grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : right ? so is the ri right now are the ideas the rich rich the rad or whatever is one you know potential block inside intention . it 's still it 's still mainly intention hypothesis grad c : yeah . yeah . grad g : and then that 's just one way to describe the the action part of it . grad c : yeah . grad b : it 's an a attempt to refine it basically . grad c : it 's and yeah , grad g : ok , great uh - huh . grad c : it 's an an it 's it 's sort of grad g : not just that you want to go from here to here , it 's that the action is what you intend grad c : yeah . grad g : and this action consists of all com complicated modules and image schemas and whatever . grad c : yeah . and and there will be a a a relatively high level of redundancy in the sense that um ultimately one grad g : mm - hmm . which is , yeah , it 's fine grad c : so th so that if we want to get really cocky we we will say `` well if you really look at it , you just need our rad . `` you can throw the rest away , right ? grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : because you 're not gon na get anymore information out of the action a as you find it there in the domain object . grad g : right . right . mm - hmm . grad c : but then again um in this case , the domain object may contain information that we do n't really care about either . so . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : h but w we 'll see that then , and how how it sort of evolves . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : i mean if if people really like our our rad , i mean w what might happen is that they will get rid of that action thing completely , you know , and leave it up for us to get the parser input um grad g : mmm . we know the things that make use of this thing so that we can just change them so that they make use of rad . grad c : yeah . yeah . undergrad d : you do n't have to use the acronym . grad g : i ca n't believe we 're using this term . so i 'm like rad ! like every time i say it , it 's horrible . ok . grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : i see what you mean . grad b : rad 's a great term . grad g : is the but what is the `` why `` ? grad e : it 's rad , even ! it happened to c be what it stands for . grad b : it just happened to be the acronym . grad c : well grad g : yeah . that 's does n't make it a great term . it 's just like those jokes where you have to work on both levels . grad c : ye no but i undergrad d : just think of it as as `` wheel `` in german . grad c : but if you if you if you work in th in that xml community it is a great acronym grad g : do you see what i mean ? like grad c : because it e evokes whatever rdf rdf is the biggest thing right ? that 's the rich sort of `` resource description framework `` grad e : oh `` rich de `` grad c : and um and also so , description , having the word d term `` description `` in there is wonderful , grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : uh `` rich `` is also great , rwww . grad b : who does n't like to be a grad e : everybody likes action . grad b : yeah . grad g : yeah . ok . grad e : plus it 's hip . the kids 'll like it . grad g : but what if it 's not an action ? grad c : it 's it 's rad , undergrad d : yeah all the kids 'll love it . grad c : yeah . grad g : and intentions will be `` rid `` ? like , `` ok `` . um are the are the sample data that you guys showed sometime ago like the things maybe maybe you 're gon na run a trial tomorrow . i mean , i 'm just wondering whether the ac some the actual sentences from this domain will be available . cuz it 'd be nice for me to like look if i 'm thinking about examples i 'm mostly looking at child language which you know will have some overlap but not total with the kinds of things that you guys are getting . so you showed some in this here before grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : and maybe you 've posted it before but where would i look if i want to see ? grad c : oh i you want audio ? grad g : you know . grad c : or do you want transcript ? grad g : no just just transcript . grad c : yeah , well just transcript is just not available because nobody has transcribed it yet . grad g : sorry . grad c : um i can e i can uh i 'll transcribe it though . grad g : oh , ok . i take that back then . grad c : it 's no problem . grad g : ok , well do n't do n't make it a high priority grad c : yeah . grad g : i in fact if you just tell me like you know like two examples grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : i mean , y the the the representational problems are i 'm sure , will be there , like enough for me to think about . so . grad c : ok , so friday , whoever wants and comes , and can . this friday . grad g : here . ok . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about capturing the intention of subjects </s> grad c : and so we had a meeting on friday talking about how to avoid that , and it proved finally fruitful in the sense that we came up with a new scenario for how to get the the subject m to really have intentions and sort of to act upon those , and um there the idea is now that next actually we we need to hire one more person to actually do that job because it it 's getting more complicated . so if you know anyone interested in in what i 'm about to describe , tell that person to to write a mail to me or jerry soon , fast . um the idea now is to sort of come up with a high level of sort of abstract tasks `` go shopping `` um `` take in uh a batch of art `` um `` visit do some sightseeing `` blah - blah - blah - blah - blah , sort of analogous to what fey has started in in in compiling compiling here and already she has already gone to the trouble of of anchoring it with specific um o { comment } um entities and real world places you will find in heidelberg . and um . so out of these f s these high level categories the subject can pick a couple , such as if if there is a cop uh a category in emptying your roll of film , the person can then decide `` ok , i wan na do that at this place `` , sort of make up their own itinerary a and and tasks and the person is not allowed to take sort of this h high level category list with them , but uh the person is able to take notes on a map that we will give him and the map will be a tourist 's sort of schematic representation with with symbols for the objects . and so , the person can maybe make a mental note that `` ah yeah i wanted to go shopping here `` and `` i wanted to maybe take a picture of that `` and `` maybe um eat here `` and then goes in and solves the task with the system , ie { comment } fey , and um and we 're gon na try out that any questions ? grad g : so um y you 'll have those say somewhere what their intention was so you still have the the nice thing about having data where you know what the actual intention was ? grad c : mm - hmm . yeah . grad g : but they will um there 's nothing that says you know `` these are the things you want to do `` so they 'll say `` well these are the things i want to do `` and right , so they 'll have a little bit more natural interaction ? grad c : hopefully . grad g : ok . mm - hmm . grad f : so they 'll be given this map , which means that they wo n't have to like ask the system for in for like high level information about where things are ? grad c : yeah it 's a schematic tourist map . so it 'll be uh i it 'll still require the that information and an grad g : it w it does n't have like streets on it that would allow them to figure out their way grad c : n not not not really the street network . nuh . grad e : so you 're just saying like what part of town the things are in or whatever ? grad c : yeah a and um the map is more a means for them to have the buildings and their names and maybe some ma ma major streets and their names grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and we want to maybe ask them , if you have get it sort of isolated street the the , whatever , `` river street `` , and they know that they have decided that , yes , that 's where they want to do this kind of action um that they have it with them and they can actually read them or sort of have the label for the object because it 's too hard to memorize all these st strange german names . and then we 're going to have another we 're gon na have w another trial run ie the first with that new setup tomorrow at two and we have a real interesting subject which is ron kay for who those who know him , he 's the founder of ici . so he 'll he 's around seven seventy years old , or something . grad g : i did n't know he was the founder . that 's ok . grad c : and he also approached me and he offered to help um our project and he was more thinking about some high level thinking tasks and i said `` sure we need help you can come in as a subject `` and he said `` ok `` . so that 's what 's gon na happen , tomorrow , data . grad g : using this new new um plan , grad c : new new set up . yeah . which i 'll hopefully sort of scrape together t but , thanks to fey , we already have sort of a nice blueprint and i can work with that . questions ? comments on that ? if not , we can move on . no ? no more questions ? grad e : i 'm not sure i totally understand this grad g : so what 's the s this is what you made , fey ? grad e : but i 'm not sure i totally understand everything that 's being talked about grad g : like so so it 's just based on like the materials you had about heidelberg . grad c : um are you familiar with with the with the very rough setup of the data ? grad e : but i i imagine i 'll c just catch on . undergrad d : based on the web site , yeah , at the grad g : oh ok there 's a web site grad c : experiment ? undergrad d : right . grad g : and then you could like um figure out what the cate undergrad d : it 's a tourist information web site , grad e : uh , this is where they 're supposed to grad c : talk to a machine and it breaks down and then the human comes on . grad e : yeah . yeah . grad c : the question is just sort of how do we get the tasks in their head that they have an intention of doing something and have a need to ask the system for something without giving them sort of a clear wording or phrasing of the task . grad e : ok . ok . ok . grad c : because what will happen then is that people repeat repeat , { comment } or as much as they can , of that phrasing . grad g : hmm . um , are you worried about being able to identify um . the the goals that we 've d you guys have been talking about are this these you know identifying which of three modes um their question uh concerns . grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : so it 's like the enter versus view grad c : yeah , we we we will sort of get a protocol of the prior interaction , grad g : uh - huh . grad c : right ? that 's where the instructor , the person we are going to hire , um and the subjects sit down together with these high level things grad g : uh - huh . mm - hmm . grad c : and so th the q first question for the subject is , `` so these are things , you know , we thought a tourist can do . is there anything that interests you ? `` grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and the person can say `` yeah , sure sh this is something i would do . i would go shopping `` . yeah ? and then we can sort of this s instructor can say `` well , uh then you you may want to find out how to get over here grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : because this is where the shopping district is `` . grad g : so the interaction beforehand will give them hints about how specific or how whatever though the kinds of questions that are going to ask during the actual session ? grad c : no . just sort of ok , what what what would you like to buy and then um ok there you wan na buy a whatever cuckoos clocks grad g : yeah . grad c : ok and the there is a store there . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : so the task then for that person is t finding out how to get there , right ? grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : that 's sort of what 's left . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and we know that the intention is to enter because we know that the person wants to buy a cuckoos clock . grad g : ok , that 's what i mean so like those tasks are all gon na be um unambiguous about which of the three modes . grad c : hopefully . grad g : right . ok . so . phd a : well , so the idea is to try to get the actual phrasing that they might use and try to interfere as little as possible with their choice of words . grad c : hopefully . grad g : t that they 'll be here ? grad c : yes . in a sense that 's exactly the the the idea , which is never possible in a in a s in a lab situation , phd a : well , u u the one experiment th that that that i 've read somewhere , it was they u used pictures . so to to uh actually um uh specify the the tasks . grad e : mm - hmm . phd a : uh , but you know i i grad c : yeah . we had exactly that on our list of possible way things so we uh i even made a sort of a silly thing how that could work , how you control you are here you you want to know how to get someplace , and this is the place and it 's a museum and you want to do some and and and there 's a person looking at pictures . so , you know , this is exactly getting someplace with the intention of entering and looking at pictures . phd a : right . grad c : however , not only was the common census were among all participants of friday 's meeting was it 's gon na be very laborious to to make these drawings for each different things , phd a : right . grad c : all the different actions , if at all possible , and also people will get caught up in the pictures . so all of a sudden we 'll get descriptions of pictures in there . phd a : right . grad c : and people talking about pictures and pictorial representations and um phd a : right . grad c : i would s i would still be willing to try it . phd a : i mean , i i 'm i 'm not saying it 's necessary but but uh i uh uh i you might be able to combine you know text uh and and some sort of picture and also uh i think it it will be a good idea to show them the text and kind of chew the task and then take the test away the the the the the text away grad c : mm - hmm . yeah . phd a : so that they are not uh guided by by by what you wrote , grad c : we will phd a : but can come up with their with their own </s>
<s> what did grad c think about capturing subject intention ? </s> grad c : and so we had a meeting on friday talking about how to avoid that , and it proved finally fruitful in the sense that we came up with a new scenario for how to get the the subject m to really have intentions and sort of to act upon those , and um there the idea is now that next actually we we need to hire one more person to actually do that job because it it 's getting more complicated . so if you know anyone interested in in what i 'm about to describe , tell that person to to write a mail to me or jerry soon , fast . um the idea now is to sort of come up with a high level of sort of abstract tasks `` go shopping `` um `` take in uh a batch of art `` um `` visit do some sightseeing `` blah - blah - blah - blah - blah , sort of analogous to what fey has started in in in compiling compiling here and already she has already gone to the trouble of of anchoring it with specific um o { comment } um entities and real world places you will find in heidelberg . and um . so out of these f s these high level categories the subject can pick a couple , such as if if there is a cop uh a category in emptying your roll of film , the person can then decide `` ok , i wan na do that at this place `` , sort of make up their own itinerary a and and tasks and the person is not allowed to take sort of this h high level category list with them , but uh the person is able to take notes on a map that we will give him and the map will be a tourist 's sort of schematic representation with with symbols for the objects . and so , the person can maybe make a mental note that `` ah yeah i wanted to go shopping here `` and `` i wanted to maybe take a picture of that `` and `` maybe um eat here `` and then goes in and solves the task with the system , ie { comment } fey , and um and we 're gon na try out that any questions ? grad g : so um y you 'll have those say somewhere what their intention was so you still have the the nice thing about having data where you know what the actual intention was ? grad c : mm - hmm . yeah . grad g : but they will um there 's nothing that says you know `` these are the things you want to do `` so they 'll say `` well these are the things i want to do `` and right , so they 'll have a little bit more natural interaction ? grad c : hopefully . grad g : ok . mm - hmm . grad f : so they 'll be given this map , which means that they wo n't have to like ask the system for in for like high level information about where things are ? grad c : yeah it 's a schematic tourist map . so it 'll be uh i it 'll still require the that information and an right ? that 's where the instructor , the person we are going to hire , um and the subjects sit down together with these high level things grad g : uh - huh . mm - hmm . grad c : and so th the q first question for the subject is , `` so these are things , you know , we thought a tourist can do . is there anything that interests you ? `` grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and the person can say `` yeah , sure sh this is something i would do . i would go shopping `` . yeah ? and then we can sort of this s instructor can say `` well , uh then you you may want to find out how to get over here grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : because this is where the shopping district is `` . grad g : so the interaction beforehand will give them hints about how specific or how whatever though the kinds of questions that are going to ask during the actual session ? grad c : no . just sort of ok , what what what would you like to buy and then um ok there you wan na buy a whatever cuckoos clocks grad g : yeah . grad c : ok and the there is a store there . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : so the task then for that person is t finding out how to get there , right ? grad g : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did grad g think about capturing the subject intention ? </s> grad g : but they will um there 's nothing that says you know `` these are the things you want to do `` so they 'll say `` well these are the things i want to do `` and right , so they 'll have a little bit more natural interaction ? grad c : hopefully . grad g : ok . mm - hmm . grad f : so they 'll be given this map , which means that they wo n't have to like ask the system for in for like high level information about where things are ? grad c : yeah it 's a schematic tourist map . so it 'll be uh i it 'll still require the that information and an grad g : it w it does n't have like streets on it that would allow them to figure out their way grad c : n not not not really the street network . nuh . grad e : so you 're just saying like what part of town the things are in or whatever ? grad c : yeah a and um the map is more a means for them to have the buildings and their names and maybe some ma ma major streets and their names grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and we want to maybe ask them , if you have get it sort of isolated street the the , whatever , `` river street `` , and they know that they have decided that , yes , that 's where they want to do this kind of action um that they have it with them and they can actually read them or sort of have the label for the object because it 's too hard to memorize all these st strange german names . and then we 're going to have another we 're gon na have w another trial run ie the first with that new setup tomorrow at two and we have a real interesting subject which is ron kay for who those who know him , he 's the founder of ici . so he 'll he 's around seven seventy years old , or something . grad g : i did n't know he was the founder . that 's ok . grad c : and he also approached me and he offered to help um our project and he was more thinking about some high level thinking tasks and i said `` sure we need help you can come in as a subject `` and he said `` ok `` . so that 's what 's gon na happen , tomorrow , data . grad g : using this new new um plan , grad c : new new set up . yeah . which i 'll hopefully sort of scrape together t but , thanks to fey , we already have sort of a nice blueprint and i can work with that . questions ? comments on that ? if not , we can move on . no ? no more questions ? grad e : i 'm not sure i totally understand this grad g : so what 's the s this is what you made , fey ? grad e : but i 'm not sure i totally understand everything that 's being talked about grad g : like so so it 's just based on like the materials you had about heidelberg . grad c : um are you familiar with with the with the very rough setup of the data ? grad e : but i i imagine i 'll c just catch on . undergrad d : based on the web site , yeah , at the grad g : oh ok there 's a web site grad c : experiment ? undergrad d : right . grad g : and then you could like um figure out what the cate undergrad d : it 's a tourist information web site , grad e : uh , this is where they 're supposed to grad c : talk to a machine and it breaks down and then the human comes on . grad e : yeah . yeah . grad c : the question is just sort of how do we get the tasks in their head that they have an intention of doing something and have a need to ask the system for something without giving them sort of a clear wording or phrasing of the task . grad e : ok . ok . ok . grad c : because what will happen then is that people repeat repeat , { comment } or as much as they can , of that phrasing . grad g : hmm . um , are you worried about being able to identify um . the the goals that we 've d you guys have been talking about are this these you know identifying which of three modes um their question uh concerns . grad c : mm - hmm . grad g : so it 's like the enter versus view grad c : yeah , we we we will sort of get a protocol of the prior interaction , grad g : uh - huh . grad c : right ? that 's where the instructor , the person we are going to hire , um and the subjects sit down together with these high level things grad g : uh - huh . mm - hmm . grad c : and so th the q first question for the subject is , `` so these are things , you know , we thought a tourist can do . is there anything that interests you ? `` grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : and the person can say `` yeah , sure sh this is something i would do . i would go shopping `` . yeah ? and then we can sort of this s instructor can say `` well , uh then you you may want to find out how to get over here grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : because this is where the shopping district is `` . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about designing the new spg schema based on a more flexible organization </s> grad b : the r uh the in terms of why is it 's laid out like this versus some other grad c : the people grad e : yeah . yeah . grad b : um that 's kind of a contentious point between the two of us but this is one wa so this is a way to link uh the way these roles are filled out to the action . grad e : in my view . grad b : because if we know that enter is a t is an spg action , grad e : mm - hmm . grad b : right ? grad e : mm - hmm . grad b : we know to look for an spg schema and put the appropriate fill in the appropriate roles later on . grad e : mm - hmm . yeah . grad g : and you could have also indicated that by saying `` enter , what are the kinds of action i am ? `` grad c : mm - hmm , yeah . grad b : right . grad e : yeah . grad g : right ? so there 's just like sort of reverse organization , right ? so like unless @ @ are there reasons why one is better than the other i mean that come from other sources ? grad e : again grad c : yes because nobod no the modules do n't grad g : yeah . uh grad c : this is this is a schema that defines xml messages that are passed from one module to another , grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : mainly meaning from the natural language understanding , or from the deep language understanding to the action planner . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : now the the reason for for not using this approach is because you always will have to go back , each module will try have to go back to look up which uh you know entity can have which uh , you know , entity can have which parents , and then so you always need the whole body of of y your model um to figure out what belongs to what . or you always send it along with it , grad g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad c : nuh ? so you always send up `` here i am i am this person , and i can have these parents `` in every message . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : which e grad g : ok , so it 's just like a pain to have to send it . grad c : it may or may not be a just a pain it 's it 's i 'm completely willing to to to throw all of this away grad g : ok , i understand . grad c : and completely redo it , grad e : well grad c : you know and and and it after some iterations we may just do that . grad g : mm - hmm . grad e : i i would just like to ask um like , if it could happen for next time , i mean , just beca cuz i 'm new grad c : mm - hmm . grad e : and i do n't really just i just do n't know what to make of this and what this is for , and stuff like that , you know , so if someone could make an example of what would actually be in it , grad c : yeah . grad e : like first of all what modules are talking to each other using this , grad c : yeah , we i will promise for the next time to have fleshed out n { comment } xml examples for a a run through and and see how this this then translates , grad e : right ? and ok . grad c : and how this can come about , grad g : be great . grad c : nuh ? including the sort of `` miracle occurs here `` um part . grad e : right . grad c : and um is there more to be said ? i think um in principle what i i think that this approach does , and e e whether or not we take the enter - view and we all throw up up the ladder um wha how do how does professor peter call that ? grad g : yeah . grad c : the uh hhh , { comment } silence su sublimination ? throwing somebody up the stairs ? have you never read the peter 's principle anyone here ? grad e : nope . phd a : oh , uh grad f : people reach their level of uh max their level of at which they 're incompetent or whatever . phd a : yeah . grad c : maximum incompetence phd a : yeah . right , right . grad c : and then you can throw them up the stairs grad e : alright . grad c : um . yeah . phd a : promote them , yeah . grad c : ok , so we can promote enter - view all all up a bit and and get rid of the uh blah - blah - x - blah uh asterisk sub - action item altogether . no no problem with that and we w we we will play around with all of them but the principal distinction between having the the pure schema and their instantiations on the one hand , and adding some whatever , more intention oriented specification um on parallel to that that this approach seems to be uh workable to me . i do n't know . if you all share that opinion then that made my day much happier . grad b : this is a simple way to basically link uh roles to actions . grad g : uh yeah wait r yeah , yeah . that 's fine . grad b : that 's the that was the intent of of it , basically . grad e : sure . sure . grad g : uh that 's true . grad c : yeah . grad g : although um roles grad b : so i i do i 'm i 'm not grad c : i 'm i 'm never happy when he uses the word `` roles `` , grad g : yeah i i grad c : i 'm grad g : yeah . i was going to grad b : i b i mean rolls so grad g : bread rolls ? grad e : oh you meant pastries , then ? grad b : yeah , pastries is what i 'm talking about . grad g : pastry oh ba oh the bak bakery example . undergrad d : bakery . bakery . grad e : this is the bakery example . got it . alright . grad g : i see . right . ok . grad e : help ! grad g : i guess i 'll agree to that , then . </s>
<s> what did grad c think about the spg schema ? </s> grad c : now the the reason for for not using this approach is because you always will have to go back , each module will try have to go back to look up which uh you know entity can have which uh , you know , entity can have which parents , and then so you always need the whole body of of y your model um to figure out what belongs to what . or you always send it along with it , grad g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad c : nuh ? so you always send up `` here i am i am this person , and i can have these parents `` in every message . grad g : mm - hmm . grad c : which e grad g : ok , so it 's just like a pain to have to send it . grad c : it may or may not be a just a pain it 's it 's i 'm completely willing to to to throw all of this away grad g : ok , i understand . grad c : and completely redo it , grad e : well grad c : you know and and and it after some iterations we may just do that . grad g : mm - hmm . grad e : i i would just like to ask um like , if it could happen for next time , i mean , just beca cuz i 'm new grad c : mm - hmm . grad e : and i do n't really just i just do n't know what to make of this and what this is for , and stuff like that , you know , so if someone could make an example of what would actually be in it , grad c : yeah . grad e : like first of all what modules are talking to each other using this , grad c : yeah , we i will promise for the next time to have fleshed out n { comment } xml examples for a a run through and and see how this this then translates , grad e : right ? and ok . grad c : and how this can come about , grad g : be great . grad c : nuh ? including the sort of `` miracle occurs here `` um part . grad e : right . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay um , welcome to our detailed design meeting . i 'm pretty excited . let 's start it 's approximately fifteen forty or something like that . okay um the agenda we 're gon na do an opening and then um i 'll talk about the minutes from the last meeting , what we d discussed um , then we 'll have the prototype presentation and a look at the evaluation criteria . we 'll look at the finances and finally a do a production evaluation and close . so , starting off with the um last the last one , oh i do n't have it here um , but we talked about energy , we 're gon na use a kinetic battery um , we want to use a simple chip , because we 're not gon na need a a shuffle um , we 're gon na need a scroll um , we 're choosing a latex case w in fruity colours that 's curved and um we 're using push buttons uh with a supplement of an on-screen menu . and it sounded like we had set um like eight or nine buttons , including five pre-set channels . okay ? let 's do the look and feel design presentation first . user interface : right , do you wan na start ? industrial designer : right , well we made three different prototypes and i guess we 'll start with with this one . um we have our colours not are not fixed , but this is the general shape . um it 's you hold it sort of either like like this in your left hand or you switch it over and uh it 's easily adaptable to either hand . you can push the buttons with your thumb like a mobile phone , or you can push them with your index finger of your other hand , or even i mean there 's a whole variety , you can hold it like this and press it with your same index finger . uh we have the on off button at the tip , very visible , very big . we have our up and down buttons , which are also gon na be our channel selectors , and we have our little menu button here . if you push if you 're just pushing these normally , they 're the menu buttons , if uh the volume buttons rather . if you press select once , they become channel changing buttons . if we press select three times , the menu with the other features and pro possibly also with your tv channel choices shows up , and you have your five presets down here . um if people wan na grab hold of that , see how it feels in your hand . that 's our number one prototype . um do you wan na present the potato , project manager : like a little lightning in it . industrial designer : or shall i present the martian ? user interface : okay , project manager : the little lightning bolt in it , very cute . user interface : um what we call that one the rhombus , marketing : i could project manager : the v the rhombus rhombus ? user interface : uh the rhombus . industrial designer : that 's the rhombus , yep . user interface : um this one is known as the potato , uh it 's industrial designer : user interface : it 's a marketing : user interface : how can i present it ? it 's an ergonomic shape , so it it fits in your hand nicely . um it 's designed to be used either in your left hand or or in your right hand . um i 've gone here just for just for four buttons on this one . um the two blue buttons here are for adjusting the volume . so you 've got volume up and volume down on the other side here . um the red ones are for uh changing channels , channel up and channel down and that 's um moves between your favourite channels that you 've selected . uh this middle button here brings up the on-screen menu and when you 're working in the on-screen menu you use the other four buttons to navigate around the menu system and the middle button uh to select and that 's basically it , that 's the potato . project manager : um on , off ? user interface : uh that would be one of your channels , basically , project manager : okay . user interface : so like channel zero would be t to switch switch the machine off , project manager : yeah we turn it off . user interface : yeah . marketing : could the middle button of the on-screen menu function as a power button ? user interface : um not really , it would make it hard to turn the machine off , to turn your tv off . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : if you pressed and held it maybe . user interface : yeah yeah , that that 'd be one way of doing it , yeah . that 'd work , yeah . marketing : if you like held it down , that would be on off . industrial designer : yeah . on off , that 's a possibility , yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and then finally we have um the martian or the pear , either way . um it 's a bit different , just a little bit more of a creative feel . uh you have the on off toggle stem on the top . we have the five preset seeds . project manager : industrial designer : and then you have on the sides to make it a little bit more three-dimensional , you have your channel changing , volume changing buttons and your menu button right here in the middle . so , that 's for your consideration as well , plus it 's an interesting talking point to have standing up . user interface : let 's pass . industrial designer : we figured it could stand up like this on your table , if you wanted it to , if i made the bot the bottom flat . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : sorry , what 's the yellow one in the middle , industrial designer : uh the menu select button . marketing : i forgot . project manager : very interesting . i think that one 's my favourite . industrial designer : user interface : so that 's so that 's our three prototypes . um basically , in terms of making decisions , what we 'd need to do is first of all decide on a form uh which of the three different shapes we want , then decide what kind of button layout we want , how many buttons , and then to choose what colours we want to make the buttons and if we wan na put any text on the device , like label on the buttons or put a brand name or or a logo on it or whatever . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : we were we were thinking that normally we 'd go for fruity colours , but maybe we 're also thinking that your sort of middle aged man , for an example customer , might not want a fruity coloured remote , so m maybe we 'd have one version that 's a bit toned down , project manager : mm 'kay . industrial designer : maybe with with less contrasts on it . yeah , something still a little bright to make it hard to lose , but user interface : would yeah , but we do n't want it to look like a kids ' toy . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : now that was one thing that we brought up over email . i do n't know if you picked up your email , but um the f the um feature that we considered for it not getting lost . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : right . well we were we were talking about that a little bit when we got that email and we think that each of these are so distinctive , that it it 's not just like another piece of technology around your house . it 's gon na be somewhere that it can be seen . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so we 're we 're not thinking that it 's gon na be as critical to have the loss marketing : but if it 's like under covers or like in a couch you still ca n't see it . project manager : it 's really would it be very difficult to um just have an external device that like i dunno , you tape to your to your tv um that when you press it you ha a little light beep goes off ? do you think that would be conceptually possible ? industrial designer : i think user interface : i think it would be difficult technologically , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : because if your if your remote 's lost it 's probably under the settee and in that case you ca n't you ca n't send an infrared sing signal to it to find it , s so it 's i 'm not quite sure how it would work project manager : that 's true , mm 'kay . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then i wonder if it 's if it 's more just a gimmick then anything else . uh i mean ho how many times do you really , seriously lose your remote control and would would a device like that actually help you to find it ? industrial designer : there might be something that you can do in the circuit board and the chip to make it make a noise or something , but it would take a lot more development than we have this afternoon . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , that 's a fair evaluation . getting lost . um we so we do we 've decided not to worry about that for now . okay 'cause well , the designs are very bright , so you 're right , they 're gon na stick out , but um industrial designer : so d do people have a preference as far as feel and functionality ? um . marketing : i feel like this is simil or it 's sort of what already exists so if we 're trying to think of something sort of like new and fun , even though this is like what you 're init i 'm initially drawn to , just 'cause it 's like comfortable and like not different . i sort of like this one , like i i do n't know why , it just it 's like small but still sort of like cute looking , i dunno . but i also like the b the side buttons on that one , like i think that 's kind of neat . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but i dunno how much any of this has to do with the fashionable , sort of cool looking thing that we also need to focus on . project manager : could we maybe have like an extra button on the top for on off ? so then w we would n't have to have like a dual function ? industrial designer : mm yeah , user interface : yeah , it 's possible , yeah , yeah . industrial designer : that 's good , that 's good . marketing : there we go . industrial designer : here , stick it on . user interface : put an extra the button on . marketing : project manager : sure . industrial designer : project manager : um uh why do n't we do a product evaluation using your criteria , if you 've developed some ? marketing : well do we w like i think we 're supposed to have one that we do it for . project manager : oh okay . okay . marketing : that was industrial designer : so where marketing : i was a little vague on what exactly i 'm supposed to do , but let me i have to like write something on the whiteboard , so . project manager : okay . do you need this industrial designer : project manager : or just write on the white board ? marketing : no , i actually do n't have like a powerpointy thing , project manager : okay . industrial designer : right . marketing : 'cause i think it would be redundant . industrial designer : okay . marketing : i dunno . project manager : it 's kind of like uh like a joystick kind of thing , industrial designer : ooh . project manager : you know , user interface : cool . project manager : kinda push it . industrial designer : hey . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : project manager : maybe a little smaller than that . industrial designer : no , i kinda like it . user interface : industrial designer : that 's hard to miss . user interface : it makes look more fruity as well . project manager : oh it does , industrial designer : project manager : it 's kind of like industrial designer : user interface : it 's like a deformed foot , i dunno . project manager : there it could have a stem like that , 'cause i do l kind of like the stem . industrial designer : like user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . it almost helps you ge keep a grip too , 'cause it goes in between fingers . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : interesting . project manager : i like this one . industrial designer : okay , project manager : variety of colours are nice . industrial designer : is that where people are leaning then , the potato ? i like the idea of the project manager : i think i 'm leaning towards the potato . industrial designer : i mean that 's really gotten the simplicity of the buttons down , that one . project manager : mm-hmm . i am worried about like um using a menu . um in that like i withing menus there are submenus , and so how do you get back to the main menu ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : well that on the ipod , for example , you just every time you wan na go back you hit the menu button again and it brings you back one level . project manager : but that has a menu button separate from a select button , whereas if this one 's both the menu and the select button ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : good point . user interface : this is , it 's the up and down buttons are used for scrolling up and down for a list of choices . project manager : okay . user interface : you find the choice that you want and you press uh you press the right button uh . project manager : could these be used for going to submenus user interface : yeah . yeah , so they 're used for going into and out of your submenus , yeah . project manager : or industrial designer : maybe yeah , project manager : okay . industrial designer : maybe it can be one of those , if you press down and hold for two seconds , then it brings you back one level or something . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . well , as long as we have that in mind as we 're designing it still , mm 'kay . marketing : okay , so which one are we sort of roughly looking at to address whether or not it meets our s um necessities , the yellowy one is that industrial designer : the potato ? are we leaning towards the potato ? user interface : potato . project manager : i think so . marketing : okay , well we can obviously change it after we go through each different one . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so basically what we need to do is some of the things that we 've talked about before we need to make sure that that remote actually does conform to the things that we said it was going to . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so what we sort of wan na do is that we each need to separately rank each of the following things and then i 'll tabulate an average just to make sure that it does meet that . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so we 'll just go through them one at a time and we 'll just go around and each of you can tell me on a scale of one to seven with one being really extremely true and seven being not true at all , or false , if the remote that we 've created conforms to the following criteria . so we can do this one first . first we wan na know if it meets the fancy look and feel um objective . so like in my opinion the for now at least , the yellow one is probably somewhere in the middle so i 'm gon na say it 's like a three . that 's just my opinion . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : what does each of you project manager : i i kind of think it 's it 's unique enough that i 'd give it a one or a two . marketing : okay , well give it a number , project manager : okay . marketing : sorry . project manager : i will give it a one . industrial designer : um i dunno if it 's it 's creative . i dunno if fancy is the word i would use . i dunno if any of them are fancy in i 'd say two , because c unique . marketing : okay . user interface : i 'll go for two . marketing : and two , awesome . alright , and same sort of scale for functionality , is it functional ? i think it 's extremely functional , i 'm gon na give it a one . industrial designer : yeah , one . user interface : i think it 's it 's functional , it 's also pretty basic , so i 'll give it a two . marketing : okay . project manager : um functional . i think it 'll get everything done , i think it might be a little confusing at first , um , i do n't know if that 's gon na be a later one . marketing : okay . well there 's some other ones , i will address that , project manager : okay , then i 'm gon na give it a two . marketing : yeah . awesome , okay . um we wan na know next if it 's technologically innovative . project manager : did you give a functional ? marketing : yeah , she said it was one . project manager : okay . marketing : um is it technologically innovative ? mm . not really , i mean not so much , 'cause we we do n't have the lcd screen , we do n't have fancy chip . other than what it looks like , i dunno if it 's really project manager : well , the kinetic battery . industrial designer : in the battery , that 's it . marketing : i kinetic battery is a big one , so . industrial designer : how many people would notice that , though ? marketing : mm . but it project manager : but they 'll notice it after like a year , marketing : but we know it 's there . project manager : they 'll be like hey , i have never changed the battery . marketing : and if it 's made of like latex , that whole idea , that 's pretty cool . project manager : mm . just the material . marketing : i 'll give it a three . 'cause it we could 've picked a lot of features that would 've made it really industrial designer : yeah . i i would say that it 's yeah , like fancy versus creative it 's it 's different . but does that equal innovative ? i dunno . i 'll give it a three . marketing : alright . everyone else ? user interface : i 'd say it 's technologically it 's not it 's not unique , i mean it 's it 's just it is just pushbuttons um , so i i 'd give it a four . project manager : think i 'm gon na go with the four as well . marketing : mm 'kay . project manager : i really like that kinetic battery though . marketing : next , is it easy to use ? just so you know , easy to learn will be separate , project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : so do n't overlap them . industrial designer : okay . marketing : i think it 's really easy to use . i 'll give it a two . industrial designer : um i 'll give it a one . pretty hard to mess up . user interface : i 'll say one . project manager : uh let 's say two . marketing : alright . um we next wan na see if it has a spongy quality industrial designer : user interface : marketing : and if indeed it 's made of latex or rubber i it 's spongy all the way . industrial designer : project manager : give it a one . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : i wonder if it bounces when you drop it . industrial designer : ooh , that you could n't marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : industrial designer : it 'd be harder to break , harder to lose . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'cause there would be less impact maybe , . marketing : iain , what do you give it ? user interface : i 'd i 'd give it a one . marketing : alright and the next is , does it integrate some notion of fruits and vegetables ? industrial designer : user interface : uh um . marketing : well , is it gon na be yellow ? industrial designer : it it might be , 'cause that 's our corporate colour , is n't it ? project manager : that 's right , yeah , corporate colour , we did n't keep that in user interface : yeah . project manager : um well industrial designer : we might wan na keep it yellow . project manager : if we i know it would make it a little less c a little more confusing , but if we had all the buttons in black , and a design in and the outside in yellow , that 'd be our corporate one and we could also have alternative colours , one a more conservative one , one that 's more fruity . marketing : yeah , but if you had like a silvery kind of white or something . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , project manager : um and can we have like an r_r_ inscribed on the bottom or something ? industrial designer : if we had a yellow sure . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : oh , yeah . project manager : fruity , so fruity . industrial designer : so marketing : alright , so i think it it 's industrial designer : it was inspired by the potato , so i think it 's pretty fruity . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think i it 's kind of mangoey too . marketing : industrial designer : oh , mango user interface : mangoey is better , yeah . marketing : yeah . i industrial designer : that that user interface : i like mangoes . marketing : okay , i 'm giving it a one the mango put me over . industrial designer : that 's a much more trendy than a potato marketing : what are what 's everyone 's numbers ? user interface : uh two . industrial designer : marketing : alright um , and does the design match the appropriate behaviour ? remember earlier we discussed that people do n't use a lot of buttons , that they use the channel flipping and the volume the most . i think we really took that into account a lot , so i 'm gon na give it a one . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , me too . user interface : uh one . marketing : did you say one , rose ? okay um , also we talked earlier about r_s_i_ and wanting to prevent um any sort of like carpal tunnely kind of thing . do we think that the latex sort of grip appropriately takes that into account ? i think i 'll give it a two , 'cause i almost feel like no matter what you do , something is gon na happen . project manager : it 's gon na be hard . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , yeah . project manager : and if it 's repetitive movement it is gon na be only four buttons that you 're constantly pushing , but um marketing : um um worth the risk , i think . project manager : i like how it fits in the hand though so i i 'd go with a two . industrial designer : yeah . i 'll i 'll say two as well . because older people that are n't used to like texting with the thumb might find it a bit at first , marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : but user interface : yeah i 'll i 'll say two . marketing : alright , awesome . and the ease of learning it . i know you were saying that you 're a little bit nervous about that , i dunno . it sort of reminds me of the ipod . i just got mine , i still have n't read the instruction book and i 'm doing okay , so and i 'm not good at learning technology . so i 'll give it a two . industrial designer : the menu system and the the fact that multiple buttons are used for different things might be a bit confusing , but i think if it 's one it 's one of those things that it might take you five minutes to figure out , but you 'll have it afterwards . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i 'd i think i 'd give it a two i guess . user interface : i think it it 's probably a little harder then most remotes to learn , because you have to you have to use the menu system and you have to tell it what your favourite channels are industrial designer : oh , good point . user interface : and that could take a bit of learning at first , but marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : once you 've , yeah once you 'd learned how to use it , i think it is a lot easier . so i 'd i 'd give it a four . marketing : okay . project manager : i think i 'd give it a four too . it 's a pretty high learning curve , it 'll be easy once you 've done it , but industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . alright , um also earlier we had something about losing it and so now we 're not addressing that at all , so project manager : we we industrial designer : project manager : i think we can kind of say we addressed it with colour , but marketing : okay , so in terms of not losing it , do you think that on a scale of one to seven , how easy or hard is it to lose ? i 'm gon na i 'm gon na give it a four , 'cause i think that you can still if it 's in between somewhere where you ca n't see it , you 're kind of not gon na find it , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but anywhere else it 's gon na stand out . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um i 'd say i 'd give it uh a three , i guess it depends on how tidy you are normally . project manager : mm i 'd give it a four . user interface : um i 'll give it a five 'cause i it would be easy to lose something like that , yeah . project manager : small too . marketing : alright , we also said simplicity , how w how well does it address just being simple ? industrial designer : simple to use or simple in design ? do you know ? marketing : i think overall , 'cause we had said before our two main things were simplicity and fashion , industrial designer : marketing : so those are the next two things we 're gon na look at . separate from fancy , like that sort of thing . industrial designer : right . marketing : um it like wants to be simple but it 's not like totally totally simple , so i 'm gon na give it a two . industrial designer : i 'm give it a three i guess . user interface : i 'll give it a two . project manager : three . marketing : alright , and fashionable ? project manager : it 's totally fashionable . i 'd give it a one . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : it 's hot , i mean it 's a mango , come on . project manager : mango . marketing : i mean how fashionable can you make a remote ? i think it 's bringing technology and fashion together real really well . industrial designer : i dunno . user interface : industrial designer : i do n't think it 's quite as fashionable as my robot remote project manager : i do like uh the little martian one . industrial designer : or alien or whatever he was . marketing : yeah , the toggle on off switch , it 's really appealing . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : number . industrial designer : um two . user interface : three . marketing : and does it meet our like demographic need sort of for international appeal , that whole thing ? just that it would se serve our audience . i do n't see why not . project manager : mm-hmm . i think as long if we offer in a in at least three different colour arrangements . um yeah , that 's good . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so i 'll give it a a two . industrial designer : yeah , i 'll say two . marketing : alright , did anyone have any other features that they think were important that we did n't talk about ? project manager : well um we did n't we did n't address the fact that it does need to b have a corporate logo , so let 's let 's make sure we keep that in mind that we ha that one of our colours concepts is corporate and has an r_r_ on it . industrial designer : shall we uh well i think all of them should have an r_r_ . project manager : all of them should have r_r_ , yeah . marketing : and so we 're gon na do that , so it will address it , project manager : mm-hmm . mm 'kay . marketing : fine . okay . project manager : lovely . marketing : that 's me . project manager : okay , now we 're gon na look at finances . um i have an excel sheet that we 're actually gon na calculate the cost um , so let me exit out of this first . okay um industrial designer : oh my . marketing : whoa . project manager : i know . let me one more space . gon na zoom in real quick . okay . hand dynamo . we 're using kinetic battery , industrial designer : uh we 're n using kinetic , yeah . project manager : right ? um and we 're having one per one , okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um electronics . industrial designer : single . project manager : simple . industrial designer : simple , simple rather . marketing : simple . project manager : mm 'kay . um the case . industrial designer : uh uh uh double-curved . user interface : guess it 's double-curved . it is pretty curvy . project manager : it 's very curvy , marketing : yeah . project manager : so okay . industrial designer : yeah i never did get a picture of those so i do n't really know . our case material supplements oops , we just skipped by them . marketing : well do n't we need plastic , and industrial designer : no , we we the plastic is the plastic for the inside is assumed . the supplement is marketing : provided , okay . project manager : the wood ? industrial designer : oh , i guess it was rubber rather than latex . project manager : i mean the rubber . marketing : it was rubber and special colour , right ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm , okay . marketing : do we have more than one special colour ? project manager : yeah , we 're using we 're gon na need at least two special colours . industrial designer : uh well user interface : special colours , is n't it ? industrial designer : i do n't know what the se the basic colour is though . marketing : per project manager : i dunno where it yeah . marketing : well , but we know that we 're having at least three colours , project manager : so let 's y say three . marketing : so industrial designer : well , are we talking about on each colour combination or are we , you know , we 'll like we 'll have yellow and black . is that two special colours ? project manager : yeah , i dunno . that i thi industrial designer : or or is white and black , then two more or project manager : i thought that would be under yours . industrial designer : uh . i guess it 's three , project manager : we 'll just say three . industrial designer : three three . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : right . project manager : maybe the r_r_ will be in colour as well , industrial designer : alright . project manager : so yeah . interface , we 're doing push buttons . and how many buttons do we have ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we have six . user interface : we 've got five . industrial designer : six , with the power . user interface : oh marketing : no , five . project manager : anything else ? industrial designer : yeah . no . oh , we 'll do we wa are the buttons in special colour , special f i did n't get information on marketing : oh wait . project manager : buttons oh , so um . so the case material will just have one colour , right , industrial designer : well , project manager : but then the buttons will be in special colours ? industrial designer : does it marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but if we 're making multiple varieties of this is where i 'm getting confused . project manager : we 're saying per unit . industrial designer : per unit , okay , okay . marketing : yeah , per unit . project manager : okay , so each unit will only have one colour on their industrial designer : alright , and each button s project manager : but the case is could have up to thr i mean the buttons could ea could be up to three colours , 'cause that how it 's designed there . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i like it like that . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah , okay . project manager : special form ? they 're all kind of just push button , right ? industrial designer : i think they 're fine . user interface : yeah . project manager : special material ? industrial designer : material , we want them rubber as well probably , yeah . project manager : uh . oh do i have to do it per button , do i ? industrial designer : no , i do n't think so . i think they 're project manager : okay . industrial designer : if they 're all gon na be rubber then it that 's what it matters . marketing : yeah , 'cause it would n't make sense otherwise , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : 'cause for the whole mat case material it 's only one . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's i mean it 's two to make it rubber . industrial designer : okay . marketing : oh wait , so maybe . project manager : thirteen point seven . industrial designer : oh oh . project manager : yeah , what can we reduce ? industrial designer : okay , let 's have our buttons all be one colour . marketing : mm , i kind of like the buttons . project manager : let 's see what that would do . it 's only gon na bring us down to thirteen point three anyway . industrial designer : alright . project manager : okay um , are we sure this is double-curved ? maybe it 's single-curved , industrial designer : we have no idea . project manager : we have no idea . industrial designer : i dunno , i did n't get any pictures . it 's single curved . marketing : it 's single curved . industrial designer : why not ? project manager : well it 's not the yeah . okay , it 's the kinetic battery that 's kind of expensive , but we have a simple chip , single curve , marketing : project manager : case material is rubber and it 's a special colour , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but that 's important . six buttons we have to have six buttons . industrial designer : that is important . how did it get more expensive , what did you just change ? project manager : what ? industrial designer : it was it was thirteen and now it 's fifteen . project manager : no , okay , maybe not . i do n't know what just happened . now it 's twelve . industrial designer : user interface : what was our target price again ? project manager : twelve point five . industrial designer : twelve point five . hey hey . user interface : twelve point five . so we 're just just about there . project manager : so we 're okay , i think . industrial designer : we 're all set then . project manager : yeah . okay , we 're all set . industrial designer : alright . project manager : um save . i saved that to our um our big shared folder , so you know . um okay , back to agenda . um are the are the costs under twelve fifty euro ? yes . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , they are . project manager : let 's move on to the project evaluation . project process . satisfaction with for example the room for creativity , leadership , teamwork , the means , any new ideas found . so i guess what we 're gon na talk about here is just evaluating how we created this project , the information we got on the news , how we used it , if we were able to um , you know , use our creativity with the information , um how how well i guess i led it , um the how well we worked together as a team , um the digital pens , the whiteboard . marketing : project manager : okay . industrial designer : well . i felt very creative . user interface : i think we 've been successful industrial designer : i enjoyed making the prototypes . user interface : in that we 've achieved almost all of the design goals that we 've set industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and we 've come up with a finished project and we just about got cost . industrial designer : i think we could 've done even better with a little bit more information , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like what 's a single-curved case , how many colours , what do colours count project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : things , but given given what we had i think that we did we did really well . um i think we worked together pretty well . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , i mean if i 'd had more market research on the fruits and vegetables , maybe we could 've taken that into account . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : but the fruits and vegetables , they really my creativity , so . project manager : marketing : i know , i really did , the the whole mango idea was great . industrial designer : do you think we could user interface : marketing : no , i mean i thought the pen was a little distracting for me personally , like its heaviness , and like just being so conscious of like turning the pages , i dunno . that was a bit of a distraction . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that was the last one , like i chose not to do a powerpoint 'cause i did n't think it made sense to , so i liked that i had the option to do that and just to take my own notes and that whole sort of thing . project manager : mm-hmm . i think we all made um very significant contributions , user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : i do n't think anybody dominated it , which i thought was really good , like each of us was able to um like each of you had your information and i uh i tried to facilitate it without like taking over , um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i like our little finished products . industrial designer : can we market this as the mango remote ? marketing : they 're funny . project manager : really cute . user interface : marketing : i kind of want one . user interface : industrial designer : should we have that somewhere on the packaging ? i have a little r_r_ . marketing : i 'm trying to think of a good pun that i could add there . project manager : i know , industrial designer : project manager : let 's think of it like a little jingle . marketing : industrial designer : marketing : i like the r_r_ , that 's gon na be etched in . industrial designer : yes . hopefully not with just my fingernail at some point but um it 's quite a useful little gadget . all thanks to iain for the design of that one . project manager : . okay um industrial designer : mm . what did we find for new ideas ? project manager : new ideas found ? industrial designer : people should really base their remotes on fruits and vegetables . project manager : definitely . or or at least be c p creative enough to think of toggle switches mm user interface : yeah . project manager : etcetera . industrial designer : i i am really into the idea of kinetic batteries now after reading about them . project manager : oh , i 'm so excited . user interface : industrial designer : that was marketing : yeah , i did n't even know they existed . industrial designer : i i knew you can get watches that had them , like really quite expensive watches that just never need a battery , 'cause you 're always moving your wrist . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but in other things , i think it 'd be really good . project manager : i thi yeah , that 's awesome . um okay , closing . are the costs within the budget ? is the project evaluated ? now there 's the final questionnaire and meeting summary . um so , this is the great product kids , i think we 've created something really interesting and that we have a market for it , um especially if we can produce it at twelve point three industrial designer : yeah . project manager : which we hope um yeah . make sure in your questionnaire to put down criticisms of both the process and the um the final results and . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , real reaction . project manager : i do like the martian remote . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : if we could choose more than one , that would be my second choice . marketing : oh , that would definitely be my second choice . project manager : although the tog toggle industrial designer : marketing : project manager : i 'm afraid i would user interface : that 's cool . let 's all let 's all go for the yellow marketing : i would break it . i would break it . project manager : it 's cool . i think i would break it . industrial designer : it started because i wanted to have it as st as a stem user interface : break the stem off . industrial designer : and then alright , so marketing : oh that 's funny . industrial designer : is it started as a pear , but then it started looking more and more like a martian project manager : oh industrial designer : when i put the user interface : marketing : kind of looks like a penguin , like with no eye . industrial designer : take me to your leader . project manager : yeah , it 's kind of a penguin . marketing : i like that it stands up . project manager : mm-mm . industrial designer : wow , maybe i should market it to some remote control company now . user interface : industrial designer : so are are project manager : user interface : that was bound to happen. $ marketing : oh , sad . industrial designer : poor little thing . project manager : mm 'kay , congratulations . um . anything else to say ? marketing : nothing will come up until after our meeting 's supposed to be over , project manager : alright . marketing : its all timed . project manager : um anybody have marketing : oh . project manager : i got more master classes , anybody else wan na like take a master 's class ? industrial designer : it 's really funny that you got spam in your work emails . marketing : user interface : project manager : yeah , but check it out . so like there are all these like links , they do n't go anywhere . industrial designer : project manager : but all that you need to keep in mind your knowledge management . um just wan na make sure you do . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : marketing : no the first one that you sent like i did n't realise that it was a joke and i was like why did she send this to us ? project manager : oh industrial designer : marketing : it 's very it 's very work relevant , project manager : it is . marketing : 'cause people send spam a lot . project manager : yes definitely industrial designer : let 's see , project manager : i 'm very sad that i did n't get any links to the corporate website . . marketing : oh here you can you can view . industrial designer : what did i get through the corporate website ? it 's just inspiration about circuit boards . marketing : you can just see what 's up . yeah it 's it 's really deep . hold on . takes a little while to get excited to load . that the excel thing is pretty cool . industrial designer : yeah , that is pretty neat . project manager : i love excel , marketing : here , like , basically project manager : it 's one of my favourite programs . marketing : it 's like inspiration , basically i 'm gon na give you two sentences on fashion and that kind of thing , see . you did n't miss out that much . project manager : i see , mm . industrial designer : yeah , my inspiration from from last time is the in interior of a remote control being taken apart bit by bit , talking about circuit boards . project manager : spongy . industrial designer : i learned a lot actually . i could probably take apart a remote control now if i really needed to . marketing : oh wow . this one was cooler . i got a whole table and everything . industrial designer : now i have all about circuits and chips and transponders and i wrote it all down , because i thought it would be relevant , like all the different parts of the inside of a remote control , but then they 're like , you do n't actually need this you just need to talk about the case . marketing : that 's like mine it was like , would you prefer an lcd screen or a multifunction remote control ? and then it did n't have like any kind of table , like awesome , i 'm glad they asked that question and did n't report the result . project manager : i i thought it was a little tricky having to hand around this thing . industrial designer : it 's really interesting though . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : we had a lot of the um otherwise the technology today was kinda cool . user interface : i think . yeah . industrial designer : that was really neat how i got emails project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and user interface : we did n't we did n't use the whiteboard that much . project manager : although i do n't see how we could have very l at least for me user interface : industrial designer : i yeah . if i 'd gotten pictures of the different parts of the case , the different looks of the case , i would have probably drawn them up , but marketing : 'cause we were n't like voting on anything and i think usually , like whiteboards are good , you know like crossing out ideas , or like if we had had like a brainstorming period . industrial designer : yeah , we could 've put our brainstorming stuff up there rather than just talking about it , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but with only four people it does n't really make sense . marketing : but i thought we were good orally . project manager : and with and with the powerpoint that we can all look at , like you can do all those things pretty much on powerpoint industrial designer : i think if you had a larger group marketing : get crazy . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : as that 's not as necessary to have . user interface : yeah . marketing : and these might 've made us more willing to like take notes than to like write up them here , 'cause we all needed them separately , kind of on the whiteboards in this room . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : because we 're all gon na be working in different places . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we if we were all gon na stay in here all the time , then having the notes up on the whiteboard would 've been alright , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but everyone needs their own , like specific notes , i guess . project manager : now when you were um creating your um prototypes here , did you work together or did you like do separate projects ? user interface : uh we we worked together , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : um but we were making like we sort of made different shapes and then discussed how the how the buttons might work , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : um and how we could like improve on the on the design . industrial designer : so it was a bit of both really , we just kind of started out by each taking a colour of clay and just fooling around with it and i came up with that rhombus shape project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and he came up with the sort of potatoey , mangoey shape , and then just went from there really . project manager : cool . industrial designer : it was fun . so well done with the management , i felt well managed . project manager : oh thanks . user interface : i think we did well in first of all giving our meetings the time , project manager : it 's kinda fun . user interface : and second we actually we we did a good job of making firm decisions at the ends of the meetings . and i marketing : sorry . industrial designer : that happened to me all the time though . user interface : i know what happens sometimes is that you tend to sort of have meetings and then people sorta drift away without anything actually really being decided . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but i think here we got we got clear and and decisive decisive points at the end of the meetings , so that we we knew where to go on from there . industrial designer : yeah , i was quite worried at the end of the last meeting that we were n't getting we did n't really have enough information to make firm decisions , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but we were able to do it regardless , so . i 'm not usually a very decisive person , so it helped to have people say this needs to be done in five minutes . project manager : this is what we 'll do . user interface : yeah . project manager : i found that we did we could have used another five or ten minutes sometimes in the meetings . industrial designer : especially last time , user interface : yeah , for some of the meetings , yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah i think the last time we had a lot of information , but at the same time not quite enough , industrial designer : yeah , project manager : you know what i mean , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : like we we could n't answer every single question . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : um but industrial designer : right . and i i felt the first two meetings , that i was coming in with no information , and not sort of made me really like , ooh i do n't know , throwing together powerpoint out of no no information and then last time it was like the opposite . i had so much information and so much to talk about . project manager : it was interesting what came out like later , like as i was doing the when i was doing the breakdown on the agenda that they gave me um , that more points came out from your presentation even . industrial designer : yeah . mm . project manager : um . i 'm a little i am a little disappointed that we did n't do a um something for losing the remote , because that was kind of a big point . industrial designer : yeah . that was something like in order to talk about that we would 've had to have actual knowledge about circuit boards and things like project manager : about yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : well the problem was , even when we just were creating from the excel file , there was n't like a option to select to somehow have it included , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so there was no we could be like yeah , it has it included . industrial designer : i think we were project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : there was no way for us to have project manager : considered the re industrial designer : yeah . marketing : written down that it was really there . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think we were just getting overenthusiastic with the task . marketing : project manager : it 's interesting that they industrial designer : i think we really got into it , i mean i got into it as the day went on and i got really like , ooh i 'm designing a remote control , i dunno if that 's just me , project manager : mm-hmm , yeah . industrial designer : but project manager : it was interesting though that they put that fifty percent of people say they have frustration with losing their remote and yet they did n't provide us with information to um we were n't provided with information to discuss that . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : i know that like people people have like things they can put on their keys that you press it and it 'll beep , but i but i 'm sure that would require some kind of technology industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : that i just do n't know what it is , but industrial designer : i think there are some of those like infomercial remotes that have things so you wo n't lose them . i dunno . i mean we were talking about it and like i in my household at least , there 's only about two places that the remote is ever 'cause there 's only one tv and there 's only like three chairs . marketing : that 's like saying you 're never gon na lose your keys , and i always do , anyway . you 'll lose 'em in your pocket , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : like you just will forget that or you like put it down somewhere that like made sense and then not remember , there 's always ways to lose things . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it d yeah , it depends on how organised you are personally , but industrial designer : yeah , or like i guess what the setup of the house is too . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but , i mean i am notorious for losing my keys , project manager : industrial designer : i just i guess i 've just never lost the remote . i put my keys in the refrigerator the other night and could n't find them . user interface : industrial designer : 'cause i was putting groceries away . marketing : that 's funny . project manager : oh . industrial designer : you you 're taking stuff from a bag and putting them in the refrigerator and then go back to my room . project manager : ca n't get in . industrial designer : ca n't get in , look all around the kitchen . definitely in the vegetable drawer . project manager : marketing : that 's funny . industrial designer : so . marketing : i always do that , leaving it in my coat , and then like using a different coat . industrial designer : but i guess it 's 'cause we do n't carry remotes around that much . marketing : yeah . ca n't really take it into the other room . industrial designer : yeah . maybe with our little robot one we could 've had him have a robot , alien , pear , whatever he is , have a little voice like , i am located marketing : industrial designer : oh a g_p_s_ system , internal g_p_s_ . marketing : user interface : marketing : oh man . here you go . project manager : we should make one that walks by itself . industrial designer : although if it 's sitting still for too long . yes i user interface : marketing : that really could get up and walk away . project manager : or or like some crazy like electro-magnet , that you push it and it 'll go zoom to the tv and stick there . industrial designer : or little or just just a wheel , you know . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : just if you like you 'd have a remote for your remote , that 'll . user interface : yeah . project manager : well , but if you could attach them to the tv , then you can . industrial designer : zoom yeah . hmm . all kinds of possibilities . project manager : mm . okay . sorry , i 'm just um trying to update my minutes . i decided to you know how i sent you the email saying that powerpoint minutes will be complimentary , rather than like repeating them . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : just gon na make i 'm making full minutes , so that it 'll include all of the agenda and all that . 'cause that seems a little more useful . industrial designer : wow . 'cause you 've had like the most typing and organising to do . project manager : but i did n't have like information to sloth through either , so industrial designer : yeah , i guess how much of your powerpoint was already done for you , every meeting . project manager : most of it , mm-hmm . i added slides , um i added a couple slides each time , but that was about it . industrial designer : okay . yeah , i did n't even think about adding slides , 'cause i would just get slides with titles on them and fill them all in w did n't even think about adding more . project manager : well , the thing was they would provide y an agenda with s like several points , but it would n't have a slide for each point . and that 's the only way i remember that i need to go other that point . industrial designer : ah yeah . . project manager : i know personally when i do powerpoint , that 's what i do and so i had it once , even if it was just like the title of it , like the three presentations , and i would do your three . industrial designer : right . marketing : you have you have to have the slogan on it or can it just be like project manager : the slogan on it ? industrial designer : no , no , definitely not . project manager : no no no . marketing : okay good . industrial designer : we marketing : 'cause i was like , it could go around the outside . industrial designer : no , i do n't think we need to user interface : project manager : i think we just need the um the r_r_ , industrial designer : i think the r_ and r_ , especially if the yellow and black one . project manager : yeah . marketing : is it yellow and blue ? industrial designer : or yellow and blue . lem me go to the web page . project manager : yeah , i was just kinda going by the web page , 'cause they did n't give me any clear , like yellow , grey , or . marketing : oh i guess it is black , grey . grey is better than black , does n't look so bumblebeeish . project manager : i do n't really like yellow in general . marketing : hey now i understand the random like newsclippings . project manager : but it industrial designer : finish meeting now . project manager : was n't it interesting that um i thought it was interesting that our market marketing um expert did not agree with the marketing um marketing : yes . project manager : the marketing choices , industrial designer : user interface : project manager : you know , like industrial designer : marketing : i will project manager : that was a bit of a conflict . marketing : i just feel like if you 're really doing like a a really big market evaluation , you would n't just have like one set of source , industrial designer : marketing : it 's kind of an they were so not backed up , it would just be a sentence like we did a survey , this is what people said . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : s mm , i dunno . project manager : people are stupid . industrial designer : i guess it i it sort of a grey , is n't it ? yellow and grey , but then the slogan 's in blue . marketing : well we got some grey and we got some blue buttons , we 're good . industrial designer : yeah . well we do n't have the right colour clay anyway . project manager : maybe , like i do n't know . that could always be . industrial designer : well we 're not , sadly , going to actually be producing this , so . marketing : if they ever come out with potato industrial designer : potato mango shaped remotes . marketing : i 'm gon na have to project manager : i 'm claiming it intellectual property . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i ca n't believe a whole day is gone . i do n't feel like it 's been that long . marketing : i know . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about evaluation criteria . </s> marketing : okay , well we can obviously change it after we go through each different one . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so basically what we need to do is some of the things that we 've talked about before we need to make sure that that remote actually does conform to the things that we said it was going to . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so what we sort of wan na do is that we each need to separately rank each of the following things and then i 'll tabulate an average just to make sure that it does meet that . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so we 'll just go through them one at a time and we 'll just go around and each of you can tell me on a scale of one to seven with one being really extremely true and seven being not true at all , or false , if the remote that we 've created conforms to the following criteria . so we can do this one first . first we wan na know if it meets the fancy look and feel um objective . so like in my opinion the for now at least , the yellow one is probably somewhere in the middle so i 'm gon na say it 's like a three . that 's just my opinion . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : what does each of you project manager : i i kind of think it 's it 's unique enough that i 'd give it a one or a two . marketing : okay , well give it a number , project manager : okay . marketing : sorry . project manager : i will give it a one . industrial designer : um i dunno if it 's it 's creative . i dunno if fancy is the word i would use . i dunno if any of them are fancy in i 'd say two , because c unique . marketing : okay . user interface : i 'll go for two . marketing : and two , awesome . alright , and same sort of scale for functionality , is it functional ? i think it 's extremely functional , i 'm gon na give it a one . industrial designer : yeah , one . user interface : i think it 's it 's functional , it 's also pretty basic , so i 'll give it a two . marketing : okay . project manager : um functional . i think it 'll get everything done , i think it might be a little confusing at first , um , i do n't know if that 's gon na be a later one . marketing : okay . well there 's some other ones , i will address that , project manager : okay , then i 'm gon na give it a two . marketing : yeah . awesome , okay . um we wan na know next if it 's technologically innovative . project manager : did you give a functional ? marketing : yeah , she said it was one . project manager : okay . marketing : um is it technologically innovative ? mm . not really , i mean not so much , 'cause we we do n't have the lcd screen , we do n't have fancy chip . other than what it looks like , i dunno if it 's really project manager : well , the kinetic battery . industrial designer : in the battery , that 's it . marketing : i kinetic battery is a big one , so . industrial designer : how many people would notice that , though ? marketing : mm . but it project manager : but they 'll notice it after like a year , marketing : but we know it 's there . project manager : they 'll be like hey , i have never changed the battery . marketing : and if it 's made of like latex , that whole idea , that 's pretty cool . project manager : mm . just the material . marketing : i 'll give it a three . 'cause it we could 've picked a lot of features that would 've made it really industrial designer : yeah . i i would say that it 's yeah , like fancy versus creative it 's it 's different . but does that equal innovative ? i dunno . i 'll give it a three . marketing : alright . everyone else ? user interface : i 'd say it 's technologically it 's not it 's not unique , i mean it 's it 's just it is just pushbuttons um , so i i 'd give it a four . project manager : think i 'm gon na go with the four as well . marketing : mm 'kay . project manager : i really like that kinetic battery though . marketing : next , is it easy to use ? just so you know , easy to learn will be separate , project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : so do n't overlap them . industrial designer : okay . marketing : i think it 's really easy to use . i 'll give it a two . industrial designer : um i 'll give it a one . pretty hard to mess up . user interface : i 'll say one . project manager : uh let 's say two . marketing : alright . um we next wan na see if it has a spongy quality industrial designer : user interface : marketing : and if indeed it 's made of latex or rubber i it 's spongy all the way . industrial designer : project manager : give it a one . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : i wonder if it bounces when you drop it . industrial designer : ooh , that you could n't marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : industrial designer : it 'd be harder to break , harder to lose . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'cause there would be less impact maybe , . marketing : iain , what do you give it ? user interface : i 'd i 'd give it a one . marketing : alright and the next is , does it integrate some notion of fruits and vegetables ? industrial designer : user interface : uh um . marketing : well , is it gon na be yellow ? industrial designer : it it might be , 'cause that 's our corporate colour , is n't it ? project manager : that 's right , yeah , corporate colour , we did n't keep that in user interface : yeah . project manager : um well industrial designer : we might wan na keep it yellow . project manager : if we i know it would make it a little less c a little more confusing , but if we had all the buttons in black , and a design in and the outside in yellow , that 'd be our corporate one and we could also have alternative colours , one a more conservative one , one that 's more fruity . marketing : yeah , but if you had like a silvery kind of white or something . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , project manager : um and can we have like an r_r_ inscribed on the bottom or something ? industrial designer : if we had a yellow sure . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : oh , yeah . project manager : fruity , so fruity . industrial designer : so marketing : alright , so i think it it 's industrial designer : it was inspired by the potato , so i think it 's pretty fruity . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think i it 's kind of mangoey too . marketing : industrial designer : oh , mango user interface : mangoey is better , yeah . marketing : yeah . i industrial designer : that that user interface : i like mangoes . marketing : okay , i 'm giving it a one the mango put me over . industrial designer : that 's a much more trendy than a potato marketing : what are what 's everyone 's numbers ? user interface : uh two . industrial designer : marketing : alright um , and does the design match the appropriate behaviour ? remember earlier we discussed that people do n't use a lot of buttons , that they use the channel flipping and the volume the most . i think we really took that into account a lot , so i 'm gon na give it a one . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , me too . user interface : uh one . marketing : did you say one , rose ? okay um , also we talked earlier about r_s_i_ and wanting to prevent um any sort of like carpal tunnely kind of thing . do we think that the latex sort of grip appropriately takes that into account ? i think i 'll give it a two , 'cause i almost feel like no matter what you do , something is gon na happen . project manager : it 's gon na be hard . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , yeah . project manager : and if it 's repetitive movement it is gon na be only four buttons that you 're constantly pushing , but um marketing : um um worth the risk , i think . project manager : i like how it fits in the hand though so i i 'd go with a two . industrial designer : yeah . i 'll i 'll say two as well . because older people that are n't used to like texting with the thumb might find it a bit at first , marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : but user interface : yeah i 'll i 'll say two . marketing : alright , awesome . and the ease of learning it . i know you were saying that you 're a little bit nervous about that , i dunno . it sort of reminds me of the ipod . i just got mine , i still have n't read the instruction book and i 'm doing okay , so and i 'm not good at learning technology . so i 'll give it a two . industrial designer : the menu system and the the fact that multiple buttons are used for different things might be a bit confusing , but i think if it 's one it 's one of those things that it might take you five minutes to figure out , but you 'll have it afterwards . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i 'd i think i 'd give it a two i guess . user interface : i think it it 's probably a little harder then most remotes to learn , because you have to you have to use the menu system and you have to tell it what your favourite channels are industrial designer : oh , good point . user interface : and that could take a bit of learning at first , but marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : once you 've , yeah once you 'd learned how to use it , i think it is a lot easier . so i 'd i 'd give it a four . marketing : okay . project manager : i think i 'd give it a four too . it 's a pretty high learning curve , it 'll be easy once you 've done it , but industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . alright , um also earlier we had something about losing it and so now we 're not addressing that at all , so project manager : we we industrial designer : project manager : i think we can kind of say we addressed it with colour , but marketing : okay , so in terms of not losing it , do you think that on a scale of one to seven , how easy or hard is it to lose ? i 'm gon na i 'm gon na give it a four , 'cause i think that you can still if it 's in between somewhere where you ca n't see it , you 're kind of not gon na find it , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but anywhere else it 's gon na stand out . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um i 'd say i 'd give it uh a three , i guess it depends on how tidy you are normally . project manager : mm i 'd give it a four . user interface : um i 'll give it a five 'cause i it would be easy to lose something like that , yeah . project manager : small too . marketing : alright , we also said simplicity , how w how well does it address just being simple ? industrial designer : simple to use or simple in design ? do you know ? marketing : i think overall , 'cause we had said before our two main things were simplicity and fashion , industrial designer : marketing : so those are the next two things we 're gon na look at . separate from fancy , like that sort of thing . industrial designer : right . marketing : um it like wants to be simple but it 's not like totally totally simple , so i 'm gon na give it a two . industrial designer : i 'm give it a three i guess . user interface : i 'll give it a two . project manager : three . marketing : alright , and fashionable ? project manager : it 's totally fashionable . i 'd give it a one . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : it 's hot , i mean it 's a mango , come on . project manager : mango . marketing : i mean how fashionable can you make a remote ? i think it 's bringing technology and fashion together real really well . industrial designer : i dunno . user interface : industrial designer : i do n't think it 's quite as fashionable as my robot remote project manager : i do like uh the little martian one . industrial designer : or alien or whatever he was . marketing : yeah , the toggle on off switch , it 's really appealing . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : number . industrial designer : um two . user interface : three . marketing : and does it meet our like demographic need sort of for international appeal , that whole thing ? just that it would se serve our audience . i do n't see why not . project manager : mm-hmm . i think as long if we offer in a in at least three different colour arrangements . um yeah , that 's good . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so i 'll give it a a two . industrial designer : yeah , i 'll say two . marketing : alright , did anyone have any other features that they think were important that we did n't talk about ? project manager : well um we did n't we did n't address the fact that it does need to b have a corporate logo , so let 's let 's make sure we keep that in mind that we ha that one of our colours concepts is corporate and has an r_r_ on it . industrial designer : shall we uh well i think all of them should have an r_r_ . project manager : all of them should have r_r_ , yeah . marketing : and so we 're gon na do that , so it will address it , project manager : mm-hmm . mm 'kay . marketing : fine . okay . project manager : lovely . </s>
<s> why did the group think of technology innovation when discussing the evaluation criteria ? </s> marketing : um is it technologically innovative ? mm . not really , i mean not so much , 'cause we we do n't have the lcd screen , we do n't have fancy chip . other than what it looks like , i dunno if it 's really project manager : well , the kinetic battery . industrial designer : in the battery , that 's it . marketing : i kinetic battery is a big one , so . industrial designer : how many people would notice that , though ? marketing : mm . but it project manager : but they 'll notice it after like a year , marketing : but we know it 's there . project manager : they 'll be like hey , i have never changed the battery . marketing : and if it 's made of like latex , that whole idea , that 's pretty cool . project manager : mm . just the material . marketing : i 'll give it a three . 'cause it we could 've picked a lot of features that would 've made it really industrial designer : yeah . i i would say that it 's yeah , like fancy versus creative it 's it 's different . but does that equal innovative ? i dunno . i 'll give it a three . marketing : alright . everyone else ? user interface : i 'd say it 's technologically it 's not it 's not unique , i mean it 's it 's just it is just pushbuttons um , so i i 'd give it a four . project manager : think i 'm gon na go with the four as well . marketing : mm 'kay . </s>
<s> why did user interface give four in ease of learning when discussing the evaluation criteria ? </s> marketing : alright , awesome . and the ease of learning it . i know you were saying that you 're a little bit nervous about that , i dunno . it sort of reminds me of the ipod . i just got mine , i still have n't read the instruction book and i 'm doing okay , so and i 'm not good at learning technology . so i 'll give it a two . industrial designer : the menu system and the the fact that multiple buttons are used for different things might be a bit confusing , but i think if it 's one it 's one of those things that it might take you five minutes to figure out , but you 'll have it afterwards . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i 'd i think i 'd give it a two i guess . user interface : i think it it 's probably a little harder then most remotes to learn , because you have to you have to use the menu system and you have to tell it what your favourite channels are industrial designer : oh , good point . user interface : and that could take a bit of learning at first , but marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : once you 've , yeah once you 'd learned how to use it , i think it is a lot easier . so i 'd i 'd give it a four . marketing : okay . project manager : i think i 'd give it a four too . it 's a pretty high learning curve , it 'll be easy once you 've done it , but industrial designer : </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about finance . </s> project manager : okay , now we 're gon na look at finances . um i have an excel sheet that we 're actually gon na calculate the cost um , so let me exit out of this first . okay um industrial designer : oh my . marketing : whoa . project manager : i know . let me one more space . gon na zoom in real quick . okay . hand dynamo . we 're using kinetic battery , industrial designer : uh we 're n using kinetic , yeah . project manager : right ? um and we 're having one per one , okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um electronics . industrial designer : single . project manager : simple . industrial designer : simple , simple rather . marketing : simple . project manager : mm 'kay . um the case . industrial designer : uh uh uh double-curved . user interface : guess it 's double-curved . it is pretty curvy . project manager : it 's very curvy , marketing : yeah . project manager : so okay . industrial designer : yeah i never did get a picture of those so i do n't really know . our case material supplements oops , we just skipped by them . marketing : well do n't we need plastic , and industrial designer : no , we we the plastic is the plastic for the inside is assumed . the supplement is marketing : provided , okay . project manager : the wood ? industrial designer : oh , i guess it was rubber rather than latex . project manager : i mean the rubber . marketing : it was rubber and special colour , right ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm , okay . marketing : do we have more than one special colour ? project manager : yeah , we 're using we 're gon na need at least two special colours . industrial designer : uh well user interface : special colours , is n't it ? industrial designer : i do n't know what the se the basic colour is though . marketing : per project manager : i dunno where it yeah . marketing : well , but we know that we 're having at least three colours , project manager : so let 's y say three . marketing : so industrial designer : well , are we talking about on each colour combination or are we , you know , we 'll like we 'll have yellow and black . is that two special colours ? project manager : yeah , i dunno . that i thi industrial designer : or or is white and black , then two more or project manager : i thought that would be under yours . industrial designer : uh . i guess it 's three , project manager : we 'll just say three . industrial designer : three three . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : right . project manager : maybe the r_r_ will be in colour as well , industrial designer : alright . project manager : so yeah . interface , we 're doing push buttons . and how many buttons do we have ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we have six . user interface : we 've got five . industrial designer : six , with the power . user interface : oh marketing : no , five . project manager : anything else ? industrial designer : yeah . no . oh , we 'll do we wa are the buttons in special colour , special f i did n't get information on marketing : oh wait . project manager : buttons oh , so um . so the case material will just have one colour , right , industrial designer : well , project manager : but then the buttons will be in special colours ? industrial designer : does it marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but if we 're making multiple varieties of this is where i 'm getting confused . project manager : we 're saying per unit . industrial designer : per unit , okay , okay . marketing : yeah , per unit . project manager : okay , so each unit will only have one colour on their industrial designer : alright , and each button s project manager : but the case is could have up to thr i mean the buttons could ea could be up to three colours , 'cause that how it 's designed there . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i like it like that . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah , okay . project manager : special form ? they 're all kind of just push button , right ? industrial designer : i think they 're fine . user interface : yeah . project manager : special material ? industrial designer : material , we want them rubber as well probably , yeah . project manager : uh . oh do i have to do it per button , do i ? industrial designer : no , i do n't think so . i think they 're project manager : okay . industrial designer : if they 're all gon na be rubber then it that 's what it matters . marketing : yeah , 'cause it would n't make sense otherwise , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : 'cause for the whole mat case material it 's only one . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's i mean it 's two to make it rubber . industrial designer : okay . marketing : oh wait , so maybe . project manager : thirteen point seven . industrial designer : oh oh . project manager : yeah , what can we reduce ? industrial designer : okay , let 's have our buttons all be one colour . marketing : mm , i kind of like the buttons . project manager : let 's see what that would do . it 's only gon na bring us down to thirteen point three anyway . industrial designer : alright . project manager : okay um , are we sure this is double-curved ? maybe it 's single-curved , industrial designer : we have no idea . project manager : we have no idea . industrial designer : i dunno , i did n't get any pictures . it 's single curved . marketing : it 's single curved . industrial designer : why not ? project manager : well it 's not the yeah . okay , it 's the kinetic battery that 's kind of expensive , but we have a simple chip , single curve , marketing : project manager : case material is rubber and it 's a special colour , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but that 's important . six buttons we have to have six buttons . industrial designer : that is important . how did it get more expensive , what did you just change ? project manager : what ? industrial designer : it was it was thirteen and now it 's fifteen . project manager : no , okay , maybe not . i do n't know what just happened . now it 's twelve . industrial designer : user interface : what was our target price again ? project manager : twelve point five . industrial designer : twelve point five . hey hey . user interface : twelve point five . so we 're just just about there . project manager : so we 're okay , i think . industrial designer : we 're all set then . project manager : yeah . okay , we 're all set . industrial designer : alright . project manager : um save . i saved that to our um our big shared folder , so you know . um okay , back to agenda . um are the are the costs under twelve fifty euro ? yes . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group think of the buttons in special colours when discussing the finance ? </s> project manager : but then the buttons will be in special colours ? industrial designer : does it marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but if we 're making multiple varieties of this is where i 'm getting confused . project manager : we 're saying per unit . industrial designer : per unit , okay , okay . marketing : yeah , per unit . project manager : okay , so each unit will only have one colour on their industrial designer : alright , and each button s project manager : but the case is could have up to thr i mean the buttons could ea could be up to three colours , 'cause that how it 's designed there . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of whether they could reduce the buttons when discussing the finance ? </s> project manager : yeah , what can we reduce ? industrial designer : okay , let 's have our buttons all be one colour . marketing : mm , i kind of like the buttons . project manager : let 's see what that would do . it 's only gon na bring us down to thirteen point three anyway . industrial designer : alright . project manager : okay um , are we sure this is double-curved ? maybe it 's single-curved , industrial designer : we have no idea . project manager : we have no idea . industrial designer : i dunno , i did n't get any pictures . it 's single curved . marketing : it 's single curved . industrial designer : why not ? project manager : well it 's not the yeah . okay , it 's the kinetic battery that 's kind of expensive , but we have a simple chip , single curve , marketing : project manager : case material is rubber and it 's a special colour , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but that 's important . six buttons we have to have six buttons . industrial designer : that is important . how did it get more expensive , what did you just change ? project manager : what ? industrial designer : it was it was thirteen and now it 's fifteen . project manager : no , okay , maybe not . i do n't know what just happened . now it 's twelve . industrial designer : user interface : what was our target price again ? project manager : twelve point five . industrial designer : twelve point five . hey hey . user interface : twelve point five . so we 're just just about there . project manager : so we 're okay , i think . industrial designer : we 're all set then . project manager : yeah . okay , we 're all set . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . uh first of all i 'll start with the costs , marketing : . project manager : because that 's going to influence our design . user interface : oh no . marketing : oh , . project manager : if you do n't know if you al already had a look or not ? user interface : no n i i already did it . industrial designer : did you do your questionnaire already ? user interface : it 's not much . it 's just one question . project manager : because we have a problem . industrial designer : uh marketing : oh . project manager : if you look closely , you can see . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it wants project manager : um i already took the liberty to make some suggestions . . . at the moment we have fifteen buttons , one lcd screen , one advanced chip-on-print . we use a uh sensor , that 's for the speech . uh we use kinetic energy . and we wanted uh the buttons in a special colour . okay . what 's the first thing we should drop ? the special colour of the buttons ? user interface : no that 's that 's for the trendy uh feel and look . so project manager : okay . uh industrial designer : yeah but everything is . project manager : should we switch to a hand dynamo ? user interface : project manager : uh that 's the still the same idea as the kinetic energy because you have to use it and do things . user interface : yeah , b but marketing : yeah but young people like that . project manager : batteries ? marketing : so just do normal battery . project manager : batteries . user interface : i think the battery option . industrial designer : just a normal battery then , yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : . marketing : it has to be twelve and a half . project manager : yeah . marketing : or not ? user interface : oh . project manager : so industrial designer : oh my goodness . project manager : you 're going to redesign something . marketing : user interface : oh no . project manager : okay , so we 're at twenty five . marketing : uh , yeah . project manager : um do we keep the shape doubly curved or g do we go for single curved ? industrial designer : well i guess i we 'll have to go for single curve then . i mean we have to drop on everything . project manager : mm-hmm . uh marketing : but we can keep it single curved with uh top view still curved , but from the side it 's it 's flat , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and the screen screen is just well you just have to hold it like this then . so project manager : yeah . um industrial designer : how about sorry . project manager : uh another option i saw was to drop the buttons one through nine , so you ca n't directly access a channel , but instead use only the up and down arrows . that would skip nine buttons and four and a half euros . industrial designer : that 's what i was thinking . user interface : yeah . marketing : alright . project manager : yeah ? marketing : let 's do it then . yeah . project manager : uh then we have left user interface : but we do n't have any basic options any more . marketing : we project manager : uh yeah . we do . industrial designer : and uh 'cause then they do n't have to n they do n't need special colour as well . marketing : f_ eight . project manager : they do n't need special colours . fine . that 's more like it . marketing : yeah . user interface : project manager : you were saying something . industrial designer : that was exactly my point . like let 's drop all the buttons , and just make one project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i mean we 're gon na use the lcd screen anyway . so we 'll just have to use it for everything . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : and then you can make an overview of channels in the screen , and select a channel , click project manager : yeah , some more menu options . yeah . okay so maybe we can drop few more buttons . industrial designer : project manager : but um now let 's look . user interface : yeah we c could we only need the the the the the menu arrow arrow button uh thing . everything you can do with with the menu . so with the display . industrial designer : project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah we need one integrated button for everything then . user interface : yeah . marketing : the joystick . project manager : uh industrial designer : yeah . kind of . i was because marketing : project manager : yeah , scroll-wheel , push-button uh industrial designer : yeah . if you if you go to marketing : integrated scroll-wheel push-button , yeah . industrial designer : if you go to our uh view , like you if you are in the sound system there , uh and you wan na adjust the treble for instance , project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : this is just uh an example , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : y y you wan na see a bar on which you can adjust it from zero to ten for example . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : but you want a sound preview of how it 's gon na sound , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right ? so you wan na click on it , activate it , whe and when you move it , hear the difference of the treble coming out or going into the sound . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so you 'll you 'll need a a kind of a joystick uh button . marketing : yeah or or the integrated scroll-wheel push-button . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so that 's kind of on your mouse and then you can click it , adjust it , click again and then you 're out of it . industrial designer : exactly . marketing : but you still but you then still need to have well you can use the scroll-wheel as well for um maybe for the channels . but you still um industrial designer : yeah it 's r yeah . marketing : you still have to have some some button in the menu to go back . user interface : so you do one inte you can do one integrated scroll-wheel push-button . marketing : yeah . user interface : and then just drop all the other buttons . project manager : uh yeah . marketing : well not all . user interface : but but th the cost of one integrated button is far more than a few extra push-buttons . marketing : not s not sound i guess . industrial designer : no . project manager : yeah . it 's uh one integrated button is five times the cost of a normal button . marketing : user interface : yeah . project manager : so user interface : so we have to to make it s uh more uh it has to be project manager : you could also drop j three more of these , without losing much functionality . you just drop the okay and the back . marketing : yeah . wh wh what what what is the what is the uh sample sensor sample speaker ? project manager : oh , that 's for the speech . marketing : speech recognition . project manager : yeah . user interface : could drop the speech recognition . marketing : right . project manager : s s drop speech recognition ? industrial designer : no but project manager : yeah that 's possible . user interface : we we d industrial designer : yeah it 's it 's expensive , but uh we never considered the possibilities of uh speech recognition . 'cause it can take the function of a lot of uh uh buttons . project manager : buttons . marketing : buttons . project manager : that 's not very easy to use . user interface : yeah . marketing : no , it can be disturbed by by noise and project manager : industrial designer : yeah but lets just say that the speech recognition works . marketing : stuff like that . let let let me see what 's more what 's more popular . i guess the the screen was more popular than um than the speech recognition . user interface : yeah . marketing : i have to look on that . let me see . uh well no i was wrong . project manager : marketing : there are more people who like speech recognition than an lcd screen . project manager : yep . okay . because if you d lose the lcd screen , we need a lot of marketing : but if it but it it it 's a it 's a both a hypers user interface : we lose our whole concept . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh so no we just project manager : we need a lot of extra buttons . marketing : no , but user interface : we keep the lcd . marketing : well we yeah we keep the screen . i mean it 's it 's about the same . eight one to ninety one percent , uh sixty six to seventy six . industrial designer : we uh we we have n't really integrated this the speech into the system , project manager : so we drop the speech . industrial designer : so we can might as well s drop that . project manager : and drop it yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . let 's drop the speech . project manager : okay . s fo four less euros . so we still have three and a half euro to lose . user interface : marketing : sixteen euros . industrial designer : we need to lose some buttons . marketing : but y y project manager : yeah if you lose the the back , the okay button uh v let 's say we only have the four arrows , and the menu button . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : then you 're marketing : and then and then use um project manager : oh and the power button we have also . marketing : the the okay . and the menu button does also does the okay function then . project manager : yeah . marketing : and then when you in the menu project manager : so that 's one euro . marketing : s so so you activate the menu . user interface : if we do uh two integrated scroll-wheel push-buttons , we can drop all the the push-buttons . project manager : yeah . yeah ? and user interface : with with one uh integrated button we can uh do the whole menu thing . with the other , we can do the the channel , the volume , et cetera . marketing : yeah yeah . yeah . . project manager : that would save zero point two euros compared to no . user interface : no it 's three euros . no ? um project manager : yeah . to this together is more expensive than oof , it 's almost the same as t keeping this . user interface : no it 's it 's n yeah . yeah yeah yeah . project manager : and we can drop these two . marketing : well okay . user interface : it 's the marketing : for example if you have f f four buttons , channel up and down , uh volume left right project manager : volume . marketing : okay , i 've i think we have to keep that . project manager : and the power button . marketing : and then and the power button . so that 's five . project manager : that 's the basic . marketing : that 's basic . that that 's what you need anyway . and then for the menu , um you can have a button that activates menu . or d or do we just integrate an an an scroll-wheel with a push-button . and then if the moment you use the scroll-wheel , the the the menu gets activated , and then you can scroll , choose an option , click on it , it goes into an feature . click on it again , selects features , scroll , adjust it . click again , it 's okay . then you only need one button to move back . or or under each option , you set a you set an a screen thing what says back , and you select that one , click again , and you go one step back . and in that menu , scroll , click , one step back . user interface : marketing : so that then you need five buttons , and one integrated scroll-wheel push-button . project manager : yep . okay th that 's marketing : but we ca n't drop three buttons . industrial designer : which that 's even marketing : but i see that 's project manager : yeah that 's one euro more expensive . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : so that 's not a good idea . project manager : that 's not an option . marketing : because which buttons do we have now ? those five which i mentioned , and then menu , and then project manager : menu , power . marketing : yeah . f of the four things ? project manager : four arrows ? marketing : yeah , th power . project manager : power . uh industrial designer : yeah , if you if you go to eight marketing : which more ? industrial designer : i do n't know how to project manager : yeah . okay . so four arrows ? marketing : yeah . project manager : uh power i believe ? marketing : power . th yeah that 's five . project manager : uh we have a back and a okay button . marketing : yeah , okay that 's seven , project manager : and the menu . marketing : and one to activate the menu , yeah . so okay that 's eight . well we ca n't reduce that . we we keep the display . project manager : yeah , and even if we drop three buttons from here , we still have to make some adjustments around here . so marketing : oh , well okay . yeah . project manager : industrial designer : yeah , we need the chip for the for the l_c_ display . marketing : project manager : the lcd ? yeah . user interface : let 's make the let 's make the case plastic . marketing : yeah well we need the advanced project manager : then i rather make it wood . marketing : instead of r project manager : because then also it 's good in the market with the forty five plus uh people . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . true . marketing : yeah but but that 's not our market . user interface : but project manager : no that maybe not . but maybe it 's better than plastic anyway . marketing : ah no , hard plastic . user interface : plastic with a with a special colour . industrial designer : oh . user interface : a woo wood uh wood uh wood colour . marketing : yeah , plastic with special colour . project manager : yeah ? marketing : no but i i project manager : yeah okay uh user interface : that 's an option . marketing : because we have to use the special colour anyway . you forgot that . user interface : yeah . project manager : yep . yeah , yeah . user interface : so we do one one s marketing : so let 's go for the plastic . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . plastic . marketing : and since it 's not kinetic , it does n't have to flip around that much ? project manager : uh that 's easy because plastic is free . marketing : we still have problem of two euros . project manager : yeah , okay . uh if we dropped uh marketing : user interface : no the buttons , those are really needed . project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah th th it 's it 's uh marketing : yeah we ca n't drop them . user interface : an advanced chip-on-print . project manager : you still need that . industrial designer : yeah uh marketing : do we really need that advanced chip for an lcd display ? industrial designer : you uh uh yeah . so the other option would be to go for the the sample speaker , and which can use a regular chip , wh which is six euros in total . project manager : s industrial designer : that does n't matter . marketing : oh . i rather keep i rather keep the display . project manager : no , i keep the re yeah . yeah . because we already designed for it . so industrial designer : well yeah . marketing : so the only option is an hand dynamo . industrial designer : exactly . user interface : oh that project manager : yeah and something else . industrial designer : yeah but the marketing : oh no tha oh that 's one euro , right . industrial designer : uh ca n't we f uh fit all the buttons in an intreg integrated scroll push-button ? 'cause that will save us one and a half euro already . and then if w marketing : and then integrated s yeah but that would make it not so easy to use . project manager : no y you would rec marketing : i mean it 's not that important , easy to use , but project manager : then you have industrial designer : th then we have to scroll through a lot of menus to be able to get where you want , huh ? project manager : then you still need two additional buttons i believe . industrial designer : and uh marketing : yeah . project manager : for the volume . industrial designer : yeah d at l yeah . at least one for power . project manager : you can use those yeah . user interface : but the project manager : oh yeah and power . that 's three buttons and this would cost industrial designer : oh . yeah it 's just as expensive as what we have now . user interface : but the integrated uh button ? how many func functions can it uh have ? project manager : yeah . three . up , down , okay . industrial designer : yeah endlessly . i mean it can be a power button as soon as it powered on . user interface : okay . industrial designer : you can go into you in you main menu , marketing : you you press it for like three seconds . industrial designer : you can choose uh flip channel , uh you can choose sound options , any options . marketing : then then then you should do everything in the menu . on the screen . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . it would save enough industrial designer : maybe we should . 'cause we do n't have money and w we want the screen . project manager : yeah you can choose this , drop these , then we have a half euro left . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we can maybe still use power button . marketing : yeah , but we 'd alright . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i guess we have to . marketing : it s it saves us four euros and it costs us two and a half . so let 's see , we we drop the price by one and a half . project manager : yeah . you see ? industrial designer : we 'll we 'll be on marketing : but we still have thirteen left . project manager : oh still yeah ? oh then i miscalculated . oh yeah . marketing : thirteen . so still half . project manager : shit . drop the special colour . marketing : there goes the special co user interface : oh no . marketing : well that would make it less appealing . so that 's no option . project manager : 'kay . what else ? uncurved ? user interface : no no , it has to be um curved . marketing : we sure about the advanced chip we need for the display ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah it says right here . project manager : they made it very easy for us . user interface : okay . marketing : well yeah . yeah . we made it hard for ourselves with the display , but it 's a cool feature . project manager : ah , i do n't think i can s uh persuade the management to say , this is better for the market so you sell more than marketing : user interface : okay . wh what we could do is um drop the the special colour , and uh do the special colour for the buttons . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : buttons . that 's oh yeah since we only have one button . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : yeah but i mean what is meant by special colour ? project manager : i just m i do n't i think user interface : just something else than than black or white i think . project manager : uh yeah it 's i think it 's grey , regular . marketing : s yeah . alright . project manager : grey and rubber . industrial designer : but we definitely want the thing to be a special colour though . project manager : of plastic . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : damn . marketing : so i rather have an hand dynamo than than drop the colour . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : yeah and then project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah yeah . marketing : you can still play with it then i guess . i do n't know . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , but a hand dynamo costs a lot of energy to keep the screen working . so i guess that is n't an option . user interface : the display industrial designer : well , you only have to power it up when you wan na use it . marketing : yeah . user interface : the but if you have to power the for ten minutes , then the marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i do n't know . marketing : yeah . project manager : no i do n't think the current status of uh chips are pretty uh energy conserving , no . industrial designer : . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah true . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : let 's let 's go for the hand dynamo then . project manager : yeah hand dynamo ? do you want an extra button ? marketing : or or do we or do we do uncurved and flat ? instead of project manager : user interface : no no it has to be curved . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah it has to be curved and has to have that colour . user interface : yeah . just put a special special colour of the buttons , or something . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and a screen . industrial designer : yeah . that 's the most import project manager : yep ? instead of an additional power button ? user interface : yeah or spe special form ? marketing : yeah . s what what is special f oh yeah , special form . project manager : yeah ? marketing : maybe that 's nicer . project manager : it 's for scroll user interface : yeah . project manager : without marketing : but we do n't have any buttons . industrial designer : we only have marketing : so do user interface : yeah . but it 's it 's for the integrated button , i think also . or marketing : d uh make it a special colour then . industrial designer : yeah but marketing : yeah ma make it a special colour then . project manager : yeah but it 's just a scroll-wheel which you can push down . so user interface : yeah . okay . yeah . marketing : okay . make it a special colour and then it look fancy . project manager : yeah ? so woah we 're within budget . marketing : so yeah . project manager : it 's a miracle . user interface : oh just marketing : let 's let 's save it . user interface : oh ma make it two special colours , but we only have one button . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : let 's do it like this , i mean , because it does not lose our identity of the product as we project manager : yeah ? okay . um , well . 'kay , this was old . industrial designer : well we come back to the drawing board then , huh ? user interface : yeah . okay . marketing : yeah all your designs are uh pretty much project manager : yeah back to work . uh industrial designer : project manager : did i save it ? industrial designer : it 's silly 'cause we we should have had this meeting before we start drawing . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah but that but that 's the fun part of it . project manager : i i wanted to go , but i was n't allowed . so industrial designer : oh yeah ? okay . marketing : alright . project manager : uh i just forgot to save this . just a minute . . marketing : yeah what 's the next uh phase ? project manager : yeah , this the last phase of course , so marketing : uh the agenda . by your humble p_m_ . project manager : hmm . oh . marketing : oh f frustrated . alright . project manager : okay . um marketing : yeah . project manager : well we first should have had a uh prototype presentation . but well as you saw that had n't made no sense , because we had to drop it . industrial designer : drop everything . yeah . marketing : drop , yeah . project manager : uh industrial designer : we went straight into finance ? project manager : yeah . user interface : marketing : project manager : yeah it was more important , so i just marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : for yeah . project manager : pushed up the agenda . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh , evaluation criteria . you have t produced something about that ? marketing : yeah that that 's yeah . i uh i sure did . and it combines with product evaluation . uh so project manager : uh you put it in the . marketing : we all have to keep in mind what has changed now . so what we have left on the because evaluation is based on the initial uh user requirements . project manager : yeah . marketing : alright . project manager : f_ five . marketing : let 's make it big . um well we evaluate uh the design with a seven point scale , as following . well the remote controls according criteria blah blah blah . true or false , and then on a scale of seven points , a scale , as we all know it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : user interface : marketing : um well the criteria are based on the user requirements , uh the trends from the marketing research , and the marketing strategy of the company itself . um well they are in a word document , which i will open now . project manager : alt up marketing : yeah . i do n't know it 's open yet . no . and we all have to uh agree on a certain level . what 's this ? project manager : freaky . marketing : oh . i do n't know . um well the first point is the remote control matches the operating behaviour of the young user . so that means the operating behaviour was using quite a lot of functions . how do you think about that ? industrial designer : i think it does . because the operating behaviour of the young user was also defined in colour and shape and the use of lcd , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right ? project manager : uh , of course we dropped a little bit of those uh marketing : yeah the us u it it industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's it 's mainly con mainly concentrating on a lot of functions , in this question . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so do you think industrial designer : well , we have extended menus , on the on the lcd screen . so marketing : yeah . you can you can ma yeah , you can make a lot of extended menus . that 's true . i mean the the possibilities are almost unlimited , to to build in menus in the screen . industrial designer : i no . marketing : so on a scale from one to seven , what do you think ? user interface : two or three . two or three . marketing : huh ? two or three ? something like that ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well we have to choose one . so uh what do you say ? project manager : uh y we should fill this in now . marketing : i agree on two . project manager : yeah okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh marketing : i uh i say two , personally . but project manager : yeah in the new design i s would say it 's three . but now , in original design i say two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah alright . marketing : yeah well we have to evaluate i guess what we have now . project manager : okay then i say three . marketing : yeah ? you say three , industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : and you you said al also three ? user interface : yeah . marketing : three ? okay well i say still two , but it has to be three then . project manager : hey , you 're marketing , eh . user interface : marketing : yeah i know . so it 's made bold . but it 's nah , it 's not very clear on the sc project manager : hmm . m maybe underline . user interface : or give it a colour . marketing : maybe other colour , yeah . that 's better . project manager : red . marketing : uh yeah . alright . oh , it does n't have to be bold anymore . project manager : oh yeah very true . user interface : marketing : alright . yeah . user interface : yeah true one . marketing : um well the remote control has wha project manager : he types everything . industrial designer : definitely one . it has to be . user interface : yeah . marketing : the remote control has irrelevant or less used functions . for example audio settings and screen settings . user interface : it hides uh basic functions . project manager : everything . you do n't use anything else . marketing : yeah . well , yeah . so it it 's a very true point . i mean it hides all those function . industrial designer : you 're not gon na find them . project manager : yeah . yeah okay . yeah . user interface : yeah true . marketing : but , i mean uh they 're hidden in the screen . if you do n't want to use them , you do n't s you s just scroll over them . and you place them project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : f i do n't know where . so that 's very true , i guess , for our case . industrial designer : yeah the next not so much so . marketing : uh the second point . it shows the relevant and most used functions . project manager : nope . marketing : power button . do we ha still have a power button ? project manager : uh check with the excel sheet . marketing : well yeah the button 's integrated , huh ? user interface : i think we are industrial designer : yeah . yeah it 's uh it 's integrated . marketing : yeah we dropped it . you j you just push it in for user interface : it 's in oh yeah it was integrateds . yeah . project manager : yeah integrate it . marketing : yeah just just push it in for th for three seconds or something , and then project manager : yeah . industrial designer : e exactly just like a m mobile . marketing : yeah . i do n't know . project manager : just go scrolling and it will activate . user interface : marketing : yeah . um it shows the relevant and most used functions . industrial designer : . marketing : yeah uh on the other uh on one side i would say yes , and the other side i would say no . so it 's i do n't know . project manager : it shows the most used functions and they are relevant , but user interface : can you uh change channels directly with with just one button ? marketing : yeah . user interface : no , you have to scroll through the menu , before marketing : with the scroll butt yeah and then say channel . and then user interface : yeah . so it 's it 's not industrial designer : well uh we should b build it so that if you do n't kind of push into the menu or something , if when it 's on , yeah , it 's turned on , project manager : you say you double click on the industrial designer : it automatically has the the programme and the volume function , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but as soon as you click it you go into the menu or some of you marketing : yeah . industrial designer : or you double click it . marketing : but but how do you change from volume to channel ? project manager : industrial designer : no because it has four arrows , right ? project manager : no , not anymore . user interface : no . marketing : no . project manager : because he 's now have a scroll-wheel that you can push in . industrial designer : oh yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : like on the the mouse . industrial designer : yeah i was thinking still about our uh integrated joystick . marketing : no we have n we have no buttons left . so the joystick was not an option . industrial designer : yeah that is a bummer . marketing : so so you hav project manager : yeah . marketing : so you you have to double-click , i mean , for , i mean , uh volume , project manager : to get into menu . yeah . marketing : and three double click for the menu , or something . user interface : oh no . project manager : or hold it ten seconds . industrial designer : we 'll make it a morse code . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . alright . user interface : marketing : but but ease of use was not very important , may i remind you . project manager : no no no . uh it should be trendy . marketing : so that 's user interface : industrial designer : marketing : yeah but that that 's not a question . industrial designer : marketing : uh the remote control shows the relevant and most used functions . user interface : marketing : well i think it 's pretty much in the middle . project manager : yeah . four . marketing : you have to search for them in in the in the s in the screen , in the menu . so project manager : yeah , im in the menu . user interface : seven . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so maybe it 's more like a f a five . or user interface : yeah . five . industrial designer : yeah i would go for five or six , yeah . marketing : yeah . five or six ? project manager : five . user interface : five . yep . industrial designer : okay five . marketing : five ? alright . industrial designer : let 's not diss our remote . user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's the weirdest remote control i 've ever seen . so marketing : oh . yeah . industrial designer : yep . just one button . project manager : well it 's different . marketing : yeah . alright . uh the the remote control makes use of technolog technological innovation like lcd screen and speech recognition . industrial designer : but uh yep . project manager : yeah . marketing : well yeah but we dropped the speech recognition . but it has at least one innovation . project manager : yeah , it 's still yeah , i say two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we still have the fruit and vegetable print . marketing : i say two then . project manager : oh , that 's the next . marketing : yeah but that that 's not that 's not this question . uh thi uh that 's the other question . industrial designer : fr oh i mean the oh never mind . i 'm a bit lost . project manager : marketing : this one . user interface : i think a two . no . marketing : two yeah . industrial designer : . marketing : i think lcd 's more useful than speech project manager : yeah definitely . marketing : what ? oh not the bold one . industrial designer : it 's way more practical , yeah . marketing : right . okay , it has a fancy look and feel by using fruit and vegetable prints , primary colours and sponge-like material . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it should have been two questions . i realise now , because sponge-like material is dropped . project manager : marketing : but the look and feel project manager : you still have rubber d or no . industrial designer : yeah . so we still uh we still have the primary colours . but only on the on the outside , not on the button . user interface : no you got a plastic . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : the button has also colour . yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah ? project manager : the one button we have . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah . the one . industrial designer : yeah . yeah still we we dropped also on the the double uh curve . project manager : yeah you could check with the excel sheet . marketing : mm mm . user interface : yeah . you only have one yeah . marketing : yeah we have single curve now , industrial designer : and and colour . marketing : and no and no material industrial designer : yeah . s marketing : . so maybe in the middle or something . project manager : yeah . user interface : four . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , i mean it 's project manager : yeah or three . industrial designer : uh marketing : worth the yeah . project manager : we have something . industrial designer : actually we d we did n't do so well on this one . because it 's basically an old one , uh with little curve on the side , and in a different colour . still , it 's still hard . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i mean the sponge-like and the three d_ shape , that would give it something young and fresh . project manager : new . yeah . marketing : yeah . but then we would have to drop the screen . user interface : red . marketing : oh red . yeah . project manager : you like both . marketing : yeah . i like bold . project manager : marketing : uh the remote control displays the corporate logo . project manager : um oh yeah . user interface : mm yeah yeah . industrial designer : of course . project manager : i just could n't marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : you just have to draw it . project manager : um , just one minute . user interface : it 's the white part uh industrial designer : yeah but it be because uh we could n't hardly draw on the b s on the lower half of the screen , we could not make it big enough to actually draw in the project manager : . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so user interface : we have a we have a industrial designer : so i mean i wanted to put digits on the buttons as well . but marketing : but there 's uh enough space for the corporate logo . i mean , if there 's only one thing . industrial designer : hell yeah . if we have only one button . marketing : yeah . so i will say that is very true . project manager : . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and even the shape we have now uh simulates kind of an r_ and the reversed r_ , user interface : industrial designer : does n't it ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so marketing : the remote control is easy to use . well i would say skill , uh i would say six , or something . i do n't think it 's easy to use , or not so . industrial designer : the only e the only thing easy about it is that you do n't have to move your fingers . 'cause it has only one button . marketing : yeah . user interface : and that you only have to control one button . industrial designer : yeah exactly . marketing : yeah . it it it has a nice screen . but yeah . user interface : it gives visual feedback . so marketing : yeah . well i i would say a five or a six . user interface : i think a five . five . industrial designer : i would say six . marketing : what do you say ? easy to use ? five or a six ? industrial designer : it 's really not easy to use . user interface : project manager : no not anymore . user interface : industrial designer : 'cause you 're putting everything marketing : so a six , more . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , uh i would go for the six too . so user interface : okay . yeah . industrial designer : most votes count . um project manager : marketing : user interface : marketing : um well , another question , user interface : yeah that looks uh great . marketing : uh the remote control is durable . user interface : marketing : i do n't know if that 's the correct word . user interface : yeah . nah industrial designer : definitely in casing , 'cause we have a hard plastic marketing : but uh in use , both battery as casing ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah because the the batteries , those thingies last forever . marketing : yeah ? true , true . industrial designer : and the the casing , hard plastic also lasts forever . marketing : and the casing is plastic , ? yeah . if you do n't drop it too much , it 's uh should last pretty long . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i would go for one . marketing : yeah ? but uh i think rubber compared is better . so i think a two is more appropriate user interface : yeah . s project manager : industrial designer : okay yeah . marketing : than user interface : wow . marketing : yeah . logo . project manager : yeah . user interface : marketing : okay i will go go for two . uh the last one ? the remote control 's a good example for company 's motto , we put the fashion in electronics . industrial designer : oh . no m user interface : no we put the electronics into the fashion . project manager : yeah well yeah . industrial designer : i would g marketing : uh turn around . yeah . but um industrial designer : i would go for four . project manager : no marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : because we kind of tried to but we kind of failed with the budget that we have . marketing : it 's not yeah , true . project manager : yeah okay . marketing : so a four . it 's it g it g goes , it 's not the best we could do , i guess . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but it all has to do with the budget , because it 's it 's not the bad idea we had , so industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah . user interface : yeah , four is okay . marketing : alright , yeah . right . project manager : so industrial designer : that 's it . marketing : so if i understood it right , we have to count these numbers . project manager : ooh . and yeah ? what ? marketing : uh yeah . mm-hmm . oh project manager : yeah . marketing : oh alright . word document , the project manager : yeah . that marketing : yeah we have to count them . project manager : count them . add them ? or marketing : uh yeah just add them and then uh divide them . project manager : could somebody start calculator ? marketing : yeah . mm . industrial designer : ah we can do the math . uh marketing : i all made it po i i all made it user interface : marketing : i all made it possible uh for a positive questions , so we can count it . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i mean if you have reversed question , you have to reverse the scale , project manager : yeah , yeah . you have to marketing : uh yes . project manager : 'kay . so four and industrial designer : yeah . did you make this questionnaire or what ? marketing : yeah . thanks . project manager : nice work . user interface : okay . three plus ? industrial designer : i would n't be able to do it that fast . project manager : o one . user interface : plus one . project manager : plus five . user interface : plus five ? marketing : oh easy . project manager : bo marketing : question number four , yeah ? project manager : uh two . marketing : yeah . project manager : four . user interface : oh . wait a second . oh . project manager : user interface : it 's it 's gone wrong . marketing : how hard is it ? user interface : okay . it 's your turn . industrial designer : pretty difficult . marketing : yeah just use project manager : start over ? user interface : no it 's if you press twice on the plus button , then you get s s marketing : oh there tho uh there 's no n there 's no num pads . project manager : you can oh yeah . user interface : no . that 's why it 's uh marketing : it 's a it 's a bit uh industrial designer : just type in the digits . they 're all one digit numbers right ? and then you can count them together . marketing : yeah . i think you can just count them by a user interface : just count it to yeah . marketing : um let 's move over . project manager : okay . three , four , nine . marketing : three , plus one , four . nine . project manager : uh marketing : uh , yeah . are you here ? industrial designer : eleven . marketing : eleven . project manager : eleven , industrial designer : fifteen . marketing : fifteen . project manager : fifteen . user interface : sixteen . industrial designer : sixteen . marketing : sixteen , yeah . industrial designer : seventeen . project manager : seventeen . marketing : no sixteen . uh sixteen plus six . industrial designer : oh what ? user interface : twenty two . project manager : s uh industrial designer : how hard is this ? marketing : twenty two . twenty two , yeah ? user interface : twenty four . twenty six . industrial designer : never mind . twenty four . twenty eight . user interface : oh , sorry . . marketing : twenty twenty eight . project manager : that was the last one . that was that . user interface : oh my . industrial designer : twenty eight . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . twenty eight . project manager : so divided by nine . marketing : twen uh okay . by nine . that 's uh three uh or le less than a three . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah the lower the the lower the score the better , right ? project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . twenty eight industrial designer : yeah but project manager : divided by nine . marketing : di divided by nine project manager : so thr t two . marketing : makes three point one one one one one one one . project manager : so we 're better than average . industrial designer : but marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i are you sure we this number actually tells us somethings ? project manager : no . industrial designer : i do n't think so because some questions are related to positive issues and some to negative . marketing : user interface : some questions are yeah . industrial designer : so if you give a true to a positive , it actually means that the low the lower the better . but if you give true to a negative question marketing : yeah , but there are no negative questions i guess . good example . durable use . industrial designer : durable , that 's good . marketing : easy to use . this is good . industrial designer : easy to use . marketing : fancy look and feel , that 's good . industrial designer : yeah . . marketing : technology innovation was good , because of a marketing uh requirement . industrial designer : also good . yeah okay . marketing : re relevant most used function . industrial designer : i guess you did do it . marketing : and hides these functions . that was also a good thing . user interface : oh yeah . yeah . industrial designer : oh yeah yeah . no marketing : and then matches the opera of the user was also a good thing . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . okay . marketing : so it were all positive questions , by uh by purpose . so industrial designer : yeah true . marketing : yes , so the it tells us something , yes . becau but the picture would be a lot different if we did n't have to drop those uh those things , i guess . user interface : oh great . project manager : things , yeah . industrial designer : yeah definitely definitely . project manager : okay . industrial designer : because now it 's just an average it 's remote . marketing : yeah . nah it it 's it 's better than average , but industrial designer : yeah okay because of the lcd screen . but uh it looks and stuff , it still uh marketing : yeah . so th project manager : it 's still yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : has some shortcomings . industrial designer : it 's not , it 's not really eye-catching , except for the colour . project manager : marketing : the colour and the screen . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay so um this we had , this we had . we have to do a product evaluation . industrial designer : product evaluation . project manager : uh prototype presentation we dropped . so uh the finance we looked . we have redesigned . uh not on that , but marketing : yeah we we have to maybe if we have to redesign it on this project manager : so you can just make one big lcd screen . user interface : okay it 's your turn now . industrial designer : shall we try ? marketing : with some casing around it , yeah . industrial designer : black . okay uh we 're still gon na go for the fancy colours ? project manager : yeah uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but are we gon na stick with the green or are we gon na do blue ? marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah we we can just uh use this one . and then uh over-paint it with uh uh the green uh project manager : the the button has a special colour , the frame has a special colour . marketing : yeah . user interface : he only needs one button . industrial designer : one scroll button and project manager : it 's plastic . and single curved . user interface : yeah . or we have to delete this one or marketing : yeah . project manager : oh and you might want to add a uh infrared led . user interface : oh oh no . marketing : oh yeah . project manager : otherwise it uh does n't function uh so well . industrial designer : for what ? user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : so that 's marketing : do we have to do other things ? project manager : well i have to um um make an uh report of every decision we made so far . marketing : or just redesign ? alright . project manager : and i try to get chip just before uh i uh receive the excel sheet . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i marketing : so you made a start , right ? project manager : yeah i 'm i 'm somewhere , but maybe you can help me . industrial designer : should give it some time ? marketing : yeah . project manager : uh user interface : okay , but how do we make the the scroll uh button ? project manager : i was here . so user interface : it 's just one industrial designer : have to take this away also . marketing : alright . user interface : yeah . project manager : ah industrial designer : and this um user interface : uh that 's the infrared uh thing . industrial designer : oh yeah , of course . marketing : the the target group has a weak spot for fruit and vegetables , like primary colours , spongy shape . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um pen yeah ? format . current colour red . marketing : the playfulness , we decided to use kinetic energy as a power sour industrial designer : oh yeah we did our special colour for the user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : line widths , now that 's a ten . marketing : that 's conceptual , yes . project manager : that 's enough to get started with , so user interface : yeah . um , uh it 's just a scroll industrial designer : it 's gon na be one str scroll . user interface : yeah , is it 's horizontal or vertical ? marketing : how many pages ? project manager : uh , i just took one for every step and then a conclusion . user interface : i think marketing : alright . y you have you have done the first two . industrial designer : horizontal 's easier too , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause you can marketing : okay , and and the look and feel is user interface : yeah . industrial designer : is it more natural than this ? project manager : well i think i have to make a p an issue called finance . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : so let 's say whoops . 'kay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : basically . user interface : it does n't look like uh marketing : the items we had to drop . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh it it 's it 's not yeah . it 's not very fashionable anymore . but uh it 's okay . industrial designer : it 's really ugly . user interface : yeah . marketing : where did we start with price ? user interface : maybe m make it bigger ? or marketing : twenty six and a half . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : or not ? or twenty six ? something like that . user interface : yeah . that looks little bit more uh maybe that 's a s a special colour for it . so we can make it uh special ? industrial designer : oh marketing : this ? industrial designer : what do you mean ? like a other colour than this one ? user interface : or or speckles in it ? i dunno . uh marketing : speckles ? user interface : industrial designer : yeah can we do it uh uh can we do a print ? user interface : .. $ i 'm not sure . project manager : ... . i do n't think so , if you see the options . but industrial designer : i think we have to choose , yeah ? marketing : uh industrial designer : okay special colour . we do have special colour . user interface : yeah red is already a special colour , i think . so industrial designer : does it mean uh that user interface : it 's not very special , but uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : shall we just give it some dots to make it look pretty ? user interface : yeah . just uh put the purple uh purple on it . industrial designer : purdy . marketing : yeah . some some big dots . industrial designer : purple ? user interface : that 's trendy . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : oh no my remote has acne . marketing : ... . we have the original balance sheet , or project manager : yeah . user interface : marketing : yeah . user interface : woah . industrial designer : no . that 's why we have that button . project manager : user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : it 's so cute . user interface : hmm . oh what ? marketing : woah . user interface : ? marketing : just cut . control z_ . user interface : oh no . industrial designer : is that that ? project manager : marketing : yeah . user interface : no no . yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : how the we did we do that ? user interface : oh it 's it 's just one computer ? or marketing : just dual screen . project manager : user interface : no . but can we delete it , just with delete ? or industrial designer : we can try . project manager : industrial designer : that does n't respond also to the undo . it looks like it 's user interface : crashed . oh , no . industrial designer : no , marketing : very nice . user interface : okay . industrial designer : where do you want some more dots ? project manager : user interface : yeah , over here . project manager : you ca n't even draw anymore . marketing : yeah . y y you you user interface : what 's this ? project manager : even children can draw . marketing : you push the button or something . or project manager : can you just push pen and then keep on user interface : oh yeah . oh that 's the select button . it 's uh industrial designer : okay , it 's not the prettiest , i know . user interface : no , it looks industrial designer : it 's not so random huh ? marketing : lot of options . project manager : user interface : it 's okay . specially the the r_ . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , the r_ and another r_ . industrial designer : yeah okay . marketing : it 's called the real remote , right ? project manager : yeah . marketing : maybe maybe it c it can say that . the real remote . project manager : yeah just on the the m um the lcd display . marketing : yeah . welcome . project manager : this is your real remote . industrial designer : we can make a l a logo . marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : like uh put it like the shape . project manager : yeah . user interface : d designed by industrial designer : something like that . user interface : okay . industrial designer : i mean it 's not too uh that 's not their logo , is it ? user interface : no . do they have a lo oh , the here . this i this is the logo . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : two r_s and a one industrial designer : it 's a project manager : yeah . you can just reuse that , because the name is the same . initials . user interface : . industrial designer : marketing : you can copy and paste the picture if you want . industrial designer : how shall we do the logo in black or not ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . what is that ? look more looks more like a campfire . user interface : industrial designer : are you dissing my drawing ? this one ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it looks like a ribbon . marketing : . yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : so who wants to draw ? this is actually quite fun . do we need to do anything ? user interface : are we uh ready ? uh or industrial designer : i hear you people are typing . marketing : type in your report . industrial designer : oh , okay . marketing : i do n't see any new messages . so project manager : luckily . marketing : hmm ? luckily , yeah . user interface : is this uh the last assignment ? or project manager : yeah , it 's uh user interface : final project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it 's almost four . marketing : what time do we have to deliver the report ? four o'clock or industrial designer : at four , yeah , ? marketing : or before that ? project manager : okay . and copy this . marketing : just compare uh project manager : just a minute . industrial designer : this is really bizarre . project manager : it 's industrial designer : it looks like there 's a it looks like a butterfly . user interface : um bug . bug . project manager : it 's somewhere i d it is n't inside . user interface : no it 's in inside the industrial designer : project manager : yeah , and do n't know how it 's or eject it . marketing : no it 's on the on the beamer i guess . user interface : no it oh . project manager : from up there ? industrial designer : no , but it i it 's not a bu a beamer . b it 's a normal tv screen , kind of thing . project manager : yeah it 's somewhere in here . user interface : hey , you 've got it uh read only . so you have to uh project manager : save copy . marketing : yeah . strange . this something what 's projection from behind , i guess . project manager : yeah . user interface : . project manager : . user interface : it 's too uh industrial designer : oh . yeah there is some kind of projection i think . marketing : yeah it it 's a beamer , but then with a industrial designer : with a with a mirror , huh ? or something . marketing : within a mirror , yeah . project manager : . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it looks like a big screen , but in fact it is n't . industrial designer : so are we gon na change anything to this ? user interface : it is industrial designer : i mean is it gon na marketing : well it 's it 's single single curved . project manager : well user interface : it 's now single curved . so it 's flat . oh no . industrial designer : this is gon na be flat . yeah exactly . marketing : th this is flat . yeah . project manager : user interface : okay . it does n't matter . it 's it 's marketing : but it 's it 's better to have in the front , this kind of shape , because it looks nice . project manager : marketing : i mean you see more of this than of that . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , more like that . industrial designer : yeah . and this is also gon na be marketing : it 's not very uh ideal . industrial designer : nope . marketing : do like this . industrial designer : but sometimes then uh all of a sudden it does work . marketing : yeah . what 's this ? user interface : that 's the detector uh for the okay . industrial designer : maybe marketing : but i do n't see a detector over there . user interface : yeah . i do n't know . industrial designer : no it 's i think you only need two points . or not . no , you sh marketing : i thought it was a kind of thing to put it on , and then draw right lines or something . user interface : maybe that 's why it 's it 's not working , because it 's more industrial designer : slanted yeah . marketing : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . or just messed it up . user interface : industrial designer : well maybe . user interface : oh . oh yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah it it matters for the aim of this thing . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah but it was n't good . user interface : you 've to make it s uh ninety degrees . marketing : yeah it it has to touch the corners , i guess . but th this one was n't good , because if i was drawing here , i drew a line and then it came over here . project manager : um now you probably have to recalibrate . user interface : you have marketing : project manager : oh , five minutes to the end of the meeting . user interface : oh we 're always long . project manager : and the recalibration is done using this icon here . user interface : yeah , can we t can we get to that @ i project manager : user interface : oh it 's not working anymore . project manager : yeah well i just marketing : yeah yeah , it 's it 's okay . it 's working again . industrial designer : user interface : oh yeah yeah yeah yeah , it 's it 's working , it 's working . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's better than before . user interface : we 're improving uh yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : you go ahead . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's improved uh pretty much . industrial designer : yeah it 's only a bit like to that side , but that is that one by the way . marketing : yeah . yeah but it 's better , it 's better user interface : no it industrial designer : 'cause this one makes the angle either like this . so i if i change this , it will go there , if i change that , will go there . marketing : mm . no . it 's better than it was i guess . industrial designer : mm-hmm . i will take this away 'cause it looks messy . marketing : silly . yeah . works pretty well . five minutes before the meeting 's over . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : and then ? project manager : then i have to uh uh write this , marketing : we have to present project manager : and i do n't know if you have to present , because i did n't receive any information about that so far . marketing : alright . industrial designer : maybe we will . project manager : maybe we get a a final mail . marketing : so it after the after after these five minutes , you have to project manager : yeah . yeah , i have still ten minutes to finish the report . industrial designer : what 's this anyway ? user interface : so cake . marketing : alright . after after that five minutes , you have ten minutes to finish it , or industrial designer : it looks like candle wax . project manager : yeah . marketing : alright . and we uh project manager : and you can uh just uh relax and uh have cup of coffee or marketing : right . chill . project manager : oh no , they do n't have beer here so you ca n't celebrate . you can just if you ma finish my presentation please . uh over there . marketing : uh yeah ? project manager : the presentation is still open . so if you finish that then you 'll see uh yeah next . marketing : next slide . project manager : oh yeah , we have to do the project uh evaluation . just uh do that quickly . marketing : yeah ? project manager : uh marketing : how do you do it ? project manager : uh well basically what that says , we discuss it and um marketing : alright . project manager : so how were did the project process uh go ? did you , were you all pleased with the process as it was ? or are there uh industrial designer : uh th uh do you mean the the interaction between us ? or project manager : yeah the interaction and the steps we followed , and and so forth . industrial designer : yeah well at first i was really stressed . because it went a bit fast . project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but then as i knew the tempo that i had to be on , the second time i think i did a bit better . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and the third time yeah , i mean marketing : and we move more to to working together as team , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : because at first you you make your individual contribution , and then come here , and you have no idea what the others have to make . project manager : . industrial designer : yeah , yeah yeah yeah . marketing : and then finally you have some idea , okay this is gon na w this is what we gon na make together and okay i will arrange this and you will arrange that , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and you have a k a kind of idea what you can expect on the next half hour when you have to work on your own . so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah we marketing : the process , i mean , the interaction between us became better and better i guess . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . especially after the first meeting . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and marketing : yeah , especially if f f if you see uh you se you saw the largest difference from the first to the second meeting i guess . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . definitely . project manager : okay and was that due to my leadership ? user interface : yeah yeah yeah . marketing : industrial designer : well you did become more assertive the the second time round , so that project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . you were more in charge kind of thing . project manager : that okay ? marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . um was there uh enough room for creativity ? industrial designer : i guess so . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah but only the the financial parts uh industrial designer : i mean marketing : li limiteded afterwards , user interface : yeah . marketing : but if if you do n't take that into account , there 's plenty of room for creativ creativity . also not only the drawing and the the making of the thing itself , but also in explaining it to the other people , by means of uh industrial designer : we were pretty democratic . marketing : the the board and uh powerpoint and word and stuff like that . project manager : so and the uh about the board digital pen ? uh was that helpful or industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm uh i think in in essence project manager : marketing : the digital pen is better than the smartboard . because it it it just works better . project manager : yeah it works . marketing : i mean uh uh i 've made yeah , uh i 've made several notes just to test it , and and just put the pen in into it , and then it came onto my screen and it looked perfectly . user interface : yeah . marketing : so it it 's better a better device than uh project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : maybe yeah . marketing : than the screen . but the screen is useful , in essence , but it does n't work that well . industrial designer : it 's uh it 's the the pen is more intuitive , 'cause we 're all used to writing with pen . project manager : use the pen . industrial designer : and uh as i said , uh i uh have no idea how powerpoint works , so will take me half a day to be able to make a normal powerpoint presentation . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but once i get to know the program probably , i mean , it looks better , you know . or uh something like that . you can give it a kind of a home style , like we have i the the logo and everything . project manager : yeah yeah . industrial designer : and i do n't know . project manager : blink . oh . marketing : warning . finish meeting now . user interface : finish meeting . project manager : okay , are are there any new ideas about this ? all i think marketing : well , it project manager : i did n't really receive , yeah . marketing : it 's use especially useful , i guess , to to evaluate designs and graph graphical stuff . project manager : uh uh w uh marketing : and and project manager : s sorry uh marketing : the screen and stuff like that . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i think the powerpoint is is too limited . you ca n't uh draw easy in in powerpoint . it has to be uh yeah . the drawing board has to be integrated into powerpoint , so that you can just easily marketing : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : yeah the the the problem with powerpoint for me is that you have to i put in the pre-made chunks c as well . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you know , you can draw something on the sketch-board and then take it there , or whatever . marketing : yeah . yeah . but it it 's useful to to show something to to an a small audience , and then to user interface : yeah just for text , for text it 's uh it 's okay . but marketing : yeah . these these kind of screens this size are useful to discuss things . so project manager : oh . user interface : marketing : yes . check your email . project manager : uh we should uh enter our questionnaire . marketing : you also . user interface : 'kay . project manager : ah . woah . industrial designer : alright . marketing : right . project manager : okay . uh okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : alright . marketing : yes boss . industrial designer : well , s see you in a second huh ? . project manager : that 's the management . marketing : well see you soon . project manager : hope so . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : um </s>
<s> summarize the group 's attempts to redesign the conceptual remote control because of the limited budget . </s> project manager : okay . uh first of all i 'll start with the costs , marketing : . project manager : because that 's going to influence our design . user interface : oh no . marketing : oh , . project manager : if you do n't know if you al already had a look or not ? user interface : no n i i already did it . industrial designer : did you do your questionnaire already ? user interface : it 's not much . it 's just one question . project manager : because we have a problem . industrial designer : uh marketing : oh . project manager : if you look closely , you can see . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it wants project manager : um i already took the liberty to make some suggestions . . . at the moment we have fifteen buttons , one lcd screen , one advanced chip-on-print . we use a uh sensor , that 's for the speech . uh we use kinetic energy . and we wanted uh the buttons in a special colour . okay . what 's the first thing we should drop ? the special colour of the buttons ? user interface : no that 's that 's for the trendy uh feel and look . so project manager : okay . uh industrial designer : yeah but everything is . project manager : should we switch to a hand dynamo ? user interface : project manager : uh that 's the still the same idea as the kinetic energy because you have to use it and do things . user interface : yeah , b but marketing : yeah but young people like that . project manager : batteries ? marketing : so just do normal battery . project manager : batteries . user interface : i think the battery option . industrial designer : just a normal battery then , yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : . marketing : it has to be twelve and a half . project manager : yeah . marketing : or not ? user interface : oh . project manager : so industrial designer : oh my goodness . project manager : you 're going to redesign something . marketing : user interface : oh no . project manager : okay , so we 're at twenty five . marketing : uh , yeah . project manager : um do we keep the shape doubly curved or g do we go for single curved ? industrial designer : well i guess i we 'll have to go for single curve then . i mean we have to drop on everything . project manager : mm-hmm . uh marketing : but we can keep it single curved with uh top view still curved , but from the side it 's it 's flat , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and the screen screen is just well you just have to hold it like this then . so project manager : yeah . um industrial designer : how about sorry . project manager : uh another option i saw was to drop the buttons one through nine , so you ca n't directly access a channel , but instead use only the up and down arrows . that would skip nine buttons and four and a half euros . industrial designer : that 's what i was thinking . user interface : yeah . marketing : alright . project manager : yeah ? marketing : let 's do it then . yeah . project manager : uh then we have left user interface : but we do n't have any basic options any more . marketing : we project manager : uh yeah . we do . industrial designer : and uh 'cause then they do n't have to n they do n't need special colour as well . marketing : f_ eight . project manager : they do n't need special colours . fine . that 's more like it . marketing : yeah . user interface : project manager : you were saying something . industrial designer : that was exactly my point . like let 's drop all the buttons , and just make one project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i mean we 're gon na use the lcd screen anyway . so we 'll just have to use it for everything . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : and then you can make an overview of channels in the screen , and select a channel , click project manager : yeah , some more menu options . yeah . okay so maybe we can drop few more buttons . industrial designer : project manager : but um now let 's look . user interface : yeah we c could we only need the the the the the menu arrow arrow button uh thing . everything you can do with with the menu . so with the display . industrial designer : project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah we need one integrated button for everything then . user interface : yeah . marketing : the joystick . project manager : uh industrial designer : yeah . kind of . i was because marketing : project manager : yeah , scroll-wheel , push-button uh industrial designer : yeah . if you if you go to marketing : integrated scroll-wheel push-button , yeah . industrial designer : if you go to our uh view , like you if you are in the sound system there , uh and you wan na adjust the treble for instance , project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : this is just uh an example , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : y y you wan na see a bar on which you can adjust it from zero to ten for example . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : but you want a sound preview of how it 's gon na sound , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right ? so you wan na click on it , activate it , whe and when you move it , hear the difference of the treble coming out or going into the sound . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so you 'll you 'll need a a kind of a joystick uh button . marketing : yeah or or the integrated scroll-wheel push-button . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so that 's kind of on your mouse and then you can click it , adjust it , click again and then you 're out of it . industrial designer : exactly . marketing : but you still but you then still need to have well you can use the scroll-wheel as well for um maybe for the channels . but you still um industrial designer : yeah it 's r yeah . marketing : you still have to have some some button in the menu to go back . user interface : so you do one inte you can do one integrated scroll-wheel push-button . marketing : yeah . user interface : and then just drop all the other buttons . project manager : uh yeah . marketing : well not all . user interface : but but th the cost of one integrated button is far more than a few extra push-buttons . marketing : not s not sound i guess . industrial designer : no . project manager : yeah . it 's uh one integrated button is five times the cost of a normal button . marketing : user interface : yeah . project manager : so user interface : so we have to to make it s uh more uh it has to be project manager : you could also drop j three more of these , without losing much functionality . you just drop the okay and the back . marketing : yeah . wh wh what what what is the what is the uh sample sensor sample speaker ? project manager : oh , that 's for the speech . marketing : speech recognition . project manager : yeah . user interface : could drop the speech recognition . marketing : right . project manager : s s drop speech recognition ? industrial designer : no but project manager : yeah that 's possible . user interface : we we d industrial designer : yeah it 's it 's expensive , but uh we never considered the possibilities of uh speech recognition . 'cause it can take the function of a lot of uh uh buttons . project manager : buttons . marketing : buttons . project manager : that 's not very easy to use . user interface : yeah . marketing : no , it can be disturbed by by noise and project manager : industrial designer : yeah but lets just say that the speech recognition works . marketing : stuff like that . let let let me see what 's more what 's more popular . i guess the the screen was more popular than um than the speech recognition . user interface : yeah . marketing : i have to look on that . let me see . uh well no i was wrong . project manager : marketing : there are more people who like speech recognition than an lcd screen . project manager : yep . okay . because if you d lose the lcd screen , we need a lot of marketing : but if it but it it it 's a it 's a both a hypers user interface : we lose our whole concept . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh so no we just project manager : we need a lot of extra buttons . marketing : no , but user interface : we keep the lcd . marketing : well we yeah we keep the screen . i mean it 's it 's about the same . eight one to ninety one percent , uh sixty six to seventy six . industrial designer : we uh we we have n't really integrated this the speech into the system , project manager : so we drop the speech . industrial designer : so we can might as well s drop that . project manager : and drop it yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . let 's drop the speech . project manager : okay . s fo four less euros . so we still have three and a half euro to lose . user interface : marketing : sixteen euros . industrial designer : we need to lose some buttons . marketing : but y y project manager : yeah if you lose the the back , the okay button uh v let 's say we only have the four arrows , and the menu button . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : then you 're marketing : and then and then use um project manager : oh and the power button we have also . marketing : the the okay . and the menu button does also does the okay function then . project manager : yeah . marketing : and then when you in the menu project manager : so that 's one euro . marketing : s so so you activate the menu . user interface : if we do uh two integrated scroll-wheel push-buttons , we can drop all the the push-buttons . project manager : yeah . yeah ? and user interface : with with one uh integrated button we can uh do the whole menu thing . with the other , we can do the the channel , the volume , et cetera . marketing : yeah yeah . yeah . . project manager : that would save zero point two euros compared to no . user interface : no it 's three euros . no ? um project manager : yeah . to this together is more expensive than oof , it 's almost the same as t keeping this . user interface : no it 's it 's n yeah . yeah yeah yeah . project manager : and we can drop these two . marketing : well okay . user interface : it 's the marketing : for example if you have f f four buttons , channel up and down , uh volume left right project manager : volume . marketing : okay , i 've i think we have to keep that . project manager : and the power button . marketing : and then and the power button . so that 's five . project manager : that 's the basic . marketing : that 's basic . that that 's what you need anyway . and then for the menu , um you can have a button that activates menu . or d or do we just integrate an an an scroll-wheel with a push-button . and then if the moment you use the scroll-wheel , the the the menu gets activated , and then you can scroll , choose an option , click on it , it goes into an feature . click on it again , selects features , scroll , adjust it . click again , it 's okay . then you only need one button to move back . or or under each option , you set a you set an a screen thing what says back , and you select that one , click again , and you go one step back . and in that menu , scroll , click , one step back . user interface : marketing : so that then you need five buttons , and one integrated scroll-wheel push-button . project manager : yep . okay th that 's marketing : but we ca n't drop three buttons . industrial designer : which that 's even marketing : but i see that 's project manager : yeah that 's one euro more expensive . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : so that 's not a good idea . project manager : that 's not an option . marketing : because which buttons do we have now ? those five which i mentioned , and then menu , and then project manager : menu , power . marketing : yeah . f of the four things ? project manager : four arrows ? marketing : yeah , th power . project manager : power . uh industrial designer : yeah , if you if you go to eight marketing : which more ? industrial designer : i do n't know how to project manager : yeah . okay . so four arrows ? marketing : yeah . project manager : uh power i believe ? marketing : power . th yeah that 's five . project manager : uh we have a back and a okay button . marketing : yeah , okay that 's seven , project manager : and the menu . marketing : and one to activate the menu , yeah . so okay that 's eight . well we ca n't reduce that . we we keep the display . project manager : yeah , and even if we drop three buttons from here , we still have to make some adjustments around here . so marketing : oh , well okay . yeah . project manager : industrial designer : yeah , we need the chip for the for the l_c_ display . marketing : project manager : the lcd ? yeah . user interface : let 's make the let 's make the case plastic . marketing : yeah well we need the advanced project manager : then i rather make it wood . marketing : instead of r project manager : because then also it 's good in the market with the forty five plus uh people . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . true . marketing : yeah but but that 's not our market . user interface : but project manager : no that maybe not . but maybe it 's better than plastic anyway . marketing : ah no , hard plastic . user interface : plastic with a with a special colour . industrial designer : oh . user interface : a woo wood uh wood uh wood colour . marketing : yeah , plastic with special colour . project manager : yeah ? marketing : no but i i project manager : yeah okay uh user interface : that 's an option . marketing : because we have to use the special colour anyway . you forgot that . user interface : yeah . project manager : yep . yeah , yeah . user interface : so we do one one s marketing : so let 's go for the plastic . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . plastic . marketing : and since it 's not kinetic , it does n't have to flip around that much ? project manager : uh that 's easy because plastic is free . marketing : we still have problem of two euros . project manager : yeah , okay . uh if we dropped uh marketing : user interface : no the buttons , those are really needed . project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah th th it 's it 's uh marketing : yeah we ca n't drop them . user interface : an advanced chip-on-print . project manager : you still need that . industrial designer : yeah uh marketing : do we really need that advanced chip for an lcd display ? industrial designer : you uh uh yeah . so the other option would be to go for the the sample speaker , and which can use a regular chip , wh which is six euros in total . project manager : s industrial designer : that does n't matter . marketing : oh . i rather keep i rather keep the display . project manager : no , i keep the re yeah . yeah . because we already designed for it . so industrial designer : well yeah . marketing : so the only option is an hand dynamo . industrial designer : exactly . user interface : oh that project manager : yeah and something else . industrial designer : yeah but the marketing : oh no tha oh that 's one euro , right . industrial designer : uh ca n't we f uh fit all the buttons in an intreg integrated scroll push-button ? 'cause that will save us one and a half euro already . and then if w marketing : and then integrated s yeah but that would make it not so easy to use . project manager : no y you would rec marketing : i mean it 's not that important , easy to use , but project manager : then you have industrial designer : th then we have to scroll through a lot of menus to be able to get where you want , huh ? project manager : then you still need two additional buttons i believe . industrial designer : and uh marketing : yeah . project manager : for the volume . industrial designer : yeah d at l yeah . at least one for power . project manager : you can use those yeah . user interface : but the project manager : oh yeah and power . that 's three buttons and this would cost industrial designer : oh . yeah it 's just as expensive as what we have now . user interface : but the integrated uh button ? how many func functions can it uh have ? project manager : yeah . three . up , down , okay . industrial designer : yeah endlessly . i mean it can be a power button as soon as it powered on . user interface : okay . industrial designer : you can go into you in you main menu , marketing : you you press it for like three seconds . industrial designer : you can choose uh flip channel , uh you can choose sound options , any options . marketing : then then then you should do everything in the menu . on the screen . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . it would save enough industrial designer : maybe we should . 'cause we do n't have money and w we want the screen . project manager : yeah you can choose this , drop these , then we have a half euro left . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we can maybe still use power button . marketing : yeah , but we 'd alright . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i guess we have to . marketing : it s it saves us four euros and it costs us two and a half . so let 's see , we we drop the price by one and a half . project manager : yeah . you see ? industrial designer : we 'll we 'll be on marketing : but we still have thirteen left . project manager : oh still yeah ? oh then i miscalculated . oh yeah . marketing : thirteen . so still half . project manager : shit . drop the special colour . marketing : there goes the special co user interface : oh no . marketing : well that would make it less appealing . so that 's no option . project manager : 'kay . what else ? uncurved ? user interface : no no , it has to be um curved . marketing : we sure about the advanced chip we need for the display ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah it says right here . project manager : they made it very easy for us . user interface : okay . marketing : well yeah . yeah . we made it hard for ourselves with the display , but it 's a cool feature . project manager : ah , i do n't think i can s uh persuade the management to say , this is better for the market so you sell more than marketing : user interface : okay . wh what we could do is um drop the the special colour , and uh do the special colour for the buttons . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : buttons . that 's oh yeah since we only have one button . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : yeah but i mean what is meant by special colour ? project manager : i just m i do n't i think user interface : just something else than than black or white i think . project manager : uh yeah it 's i think it 's grey , regular . marketing : s yeah . alright . project manager : grey and rubber . industrial designer : but we definitely want the thing to be a special colour though . project manager : of plastic . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : damn . marketing : so i rather have an hand dynamo than than drop the colour . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : yeah and then project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah yeah . marketing : you can still play with it then i guess . i do n't know . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , but a hand dynamo costs a lot of energy to keep the screen working . so i guess that is n't an option . user interface : the display industrial designer : well , you only have to power it up when you wan na use it . marketing : yeah . user interface : the but if you have to power the for ten minutes , then the marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i do n't know . marketing : yeah . project manager : no i do n't think the current status of uh chips are pretty uh energy conserving , no . industrial designer : . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah true . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : let 's let 's go for the hand dynamo then . project manager : yeah hand dynamo ? do you want an extra button ? marketing : or or do we or do we do uncurved and flat ? instead of project manager : user interface : no no it has to be curved . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah it has to be curved and has to have that colour . user interface : yeah . just put a special special colour of the buttons , or something . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and a screen . industrial designer : yeah . that 's the most import project manager : yep ? instead of an additional power button ? user interface : yeah or spe special form ? marketing : yeah . s what what is special f oh yeah , special form . project manager : yeah ? marketing : maybe that 's nicer . project manager : it 's for scroll user interface : yeah . project manager : without marketing : but we do n't have any buttons . industrial designer : we only have marketing : so do user interface : yeah . but it 's it 's for the integrated button , i think also . or marketing : d uh make it a special colour then . industrial designer : yeah but marketing : yeah ma make it a special colour then . project manager : yeah but it 's just a scroll-wheel which you can push down . so user interface : yeah . okay . yeah . marketing : okay . make it a special colour and then it look fancy . project manager : yeah ? so woah we 're within budget . marketing : so yeah . project manager : it 's a miracle . user interface : oh just marketing : let 's let 's save it . user interface : oh ma make it two special colours , but we only have one button . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : let 's do it like this , i mean , because it does not lose our identity of the product as we project manager : yeah ? okay . um , well . 'kay , this was old . industrial designer : well we come back to the drawing board then , huh ? user interface : yeah . okay . marketing : yeah all your designs are uh pretty much project manager : yeah back to work . uh industrial designer : project manager : did i save it ? industrial designer : it 's silly 'cause we we should have had this meeting before we start drawing . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah but that but that 's the fun part of it . project manager : i i wanted to go , but i was n't allowed . so industrial designer : oh yeah ? okay . marketing : alright . </s>
<s> why did the user interface disagree with the industrial design when discussing their attempts to redesign the conceptual remote control because of the limited budget ? </s> industrial designer : yeah we need one integrated button for everything then . user interface : yeah . marketing : the joystick . project manager : uh industrial designer : yeah . kind of . i was because marketing : project manager : yeah , scroll-wheel , push-button uh industrial designer : yeah . if you if you go to marketing : integrated scroll-wheel push-button , yeah . industrial designer : if you go to our uh view , like you if you are in the sound system there , uh and you wan na adjust the treble for instance , project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : this is just uh an example , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : y y you wan na see a bar on which you can adjust it from zero to ten for example . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : but you want a sound preview of how it 's gon na sound , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right ? so you wan na click on it , activate it , whe and when you move it , hear the difference of the treble coming out or going into the sound . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so you 'll you 'll need a a kind of a joystick uh button . marketing : yeah or or the integrated scroll-wheel push-button . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so that 's kind of on your mouse and then you can click it , adjust it , click again and then you 're out of it . industrial designer : exactly . marketing : but you still but you then still need to have well you can use the scroll-wheel as well for um maybe for the channels . but you still um industrial designer : yeah it 's r yeah . marketing : you still have to have some some button in the menu to go back . user interface : so you do one inte you can do one integrated scroll-wheel push-button . marketing : yeah . user interface : and then just drop all the other buttons . project manager : uh yeah . marketing : well not all . user interface : but but th the cost of one integrated button is far more than a few extra push-buttons . marketing : not s not sound i guess . industrial designer : no . project manager : yeah . it 's uh one integrated button is five times the cost of a normal button . marketing : user interface : yeah . project manager : so user interface : so we have to to make it s uh more uh it has to be </s>
<s> what did the user interface suggest to do when discussing their attempts to redesign the conceptual remote control because of the limited budget ? </s> user interface : let 's make the let 's make the case plastic . marketing : yeah well we need the advanced project manager : then i rather make it wood . marketing : instead of r project manager : because then also it 's good in the market with the forty five plus uh people . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . true . marketing : yeah but but that 's not our market . user interface : but project manager : no that maybe not . but maybe it 's better than plastic anyway . marketing : ah no , hard plastic . user interface : plastic with a with a special colour . industrial designer : oh . user interface : a woo wood uh wood uh wood colour . marketing : yeah , plastic with special colour . project manager : yeah ? marketing : no but i i project manager : yeah okay uh user interface : that 's an option . marketing : because we have to use the special colour anyway . you forgot that . user interface : yeah . project manager : yep . yeah , yeah . user interface : so we do one one s marketing : so let 's go for the plastic . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . plastic . marketing : and since it 's not kinetic , it does n't have to flip around that much ? </s>
<s> what did the group talk about the material and function issue and a questionnaire ? </s> marketing : yeah what 's the next uh phase ? project manager : yeah , this the last phase of course , so marketing : uh the agenda . by your humble p_m_ . project manager : hmm . oh . marketing : oh f frustrated . alright . project manager : okay . um marketing : yeah . project manager : well we first should have had a uh prototype presentation . but well as you saw that had n't made no sense , because we had to drop it . industrial designer : drop everything . yeah . marketing : drop , yeah . project manager : uh industrial designer : we went straight into finance ? project manager : yeah . user interface : marketing : project manager : yeah it was more important , so i just marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : for yeah . project manager : pushed up the agenda . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh , evaluation criteria . you have t produced something about that ? marketing : yeah that that 's yeah . i uh i sure did . and it combines with product evaluation . uh so project manager : uh you put it in the . marketing : we all have to keep in mind what has changed now . so what we have left on the because evaluation is based on the initial uh user requirements . project manager : yeah . marketing : alright . project manager : f_ five . marketing : let 's make it big . um well we evaluate uh the design with a seven point scale , as following . well the remote controls according criteria blah blah blah . true or false , and then on a scale of seven points , a scale , as we all know it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : user interface : marketing : um well the criteria are based on the user requirements , uh the trends from the marketing research , and the marketing strategy of the company itself . um well they are in a word document , which i will open now . project manager : alt up marketing : yeah . i do n't know it 's open yet . no . and we all have to uh agree on a certain level . what 's this ? project manager : freaky . marketing : oh . i do n't know . um well the first point is the remote control matches the operating behaviour of the young user . so that means the operating behaviour was using quite a lot of functions . how do you think about that ? industrial designer : i think it does . because the operating behaviour of the young user was also defined in colour and shape and the use of lcd , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right ? project manager : uh , of course we dropped a little bit of those uh marketing : yeah the us u it it industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's it 's mainly con mainly concentrating on a lot of functions , in this question . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so do you think industrial designer : well , we have extended menus , on the on the lcd screen . so marketing : yeah . you can you can ma yeah , you can make a lot of extended menus . that 's true . i mean the the possibilities are almost unlimited , to to build in menus in the screen . industrial designer : i no . marketing : so on a scale from one to seven , what do you think ? user interface : two or three . two or three . marketing : huh ? two or three ? something like that ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well we have to choose one . so uh what do you say ? project manager : uh y we should fill this in now . marketing : i agree on two . project manager : yeah okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh marketing : i uh i say two , personally . but project manager : yeah in the new design i s would say it 's three . but now , in original design i say two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah alright . marketing : yeah well we have to evaluate i guess what we have now . project manager : okay then i say three . marketing : yeah ? you say three , industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : and you you said al also three ? user interface : yeah . marketing : three ? okay well i say still two , but it has to be three then . project manager : hey , you 're marketing , eh . user interface : marketing : yeah i know . so it 's made bold . but it 's nah , it 's not very clear on the sc project manager : hmm . m maybe underline . user interface : or give it a colour . marketing : maybe other colour , yeah . that 's better . project manager : red . marketing : uh yeah . alright . oh , it does n't have to be bold anymore . project manager : oh yeah very true . user interface : marketing : alright . yeah . user interface : yeah true one . marketing : um well the remote control has wha project manager : he types everything . industrial designer : definitely one . it has to be . user interface : yeah . marketing : the remote control has irrelevant or less used functions . for example audio settings and screen settings . user interface : it hides uh basic functions . project manager : everything . you do n't use anything else . marketing : yeah . well , yeah . so it it 's a very true point . i mean it hides all those function . industrial designer : you 're not gon na find them . project manager : yeah . yeah okay . yeah . user interface : yeah true . marketing : but , i mean uh they 're hidden in the screen . if you do n't want to use them , you do n't s you s just scroll over them . and you place them project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : f i do n't know where . so that 's very true , i guess , for our case . industrial designer : yeah the next not so much so . marketing : uh the second point . it shows the relevant and most used functions . project manager : nope . marketing : power button . do we ha still have a power button ? project manager : uh check with the excel sheet . marketing : well yeah the button 's integrated , huh ? user interface : i think we are industrial designer : yeah . yeah it 's uh it 's integrated . marketing : yeah we dropped it . you j you just push it in for user interface : it 's in oh yeah it was integrateds . yeah . project manager : yeah integrate it . marketing : yeah just just push it in for th for three seconds or something , and then project manager : yeah . industrial designer : e exactly just like a m mobile . marketing : yeah . i do n't know . project manager : just go scrolling and it will activate . user interface : marketing : yeah . um it shows the relevant and most used functions . industrial designer : . marketing : yeah uh on the other uh on one side i would say yes , and the other side i would say no . so it 's i do n't know . project manager : it shows the most used functions and they are relevant , but user interface : can you uh change channels directly with with just one button ? marketing : yeah . user interface : no , you have to scroll through the menu , before marketing : with the scroll butt yeah and then say channel . and then user interface : yeah . so it 's it 's not industrial designer : well uh we should b build it so that if you do n't kind of push into the menu or something , if when it 's on , yeah , it 's turned on , project manager : you say you double click on the industrial designer : it automatically has the the programme and the volume function , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but as soon as you click it you go into the menu or some of you marketing : yeah . industrial designer : or you double click it . marketing : but but how do you change from volume to channel ? project manager : industrial designer : no because it has four arrows , right ? project manager : no , not anymore . user interface : no . marketing : no . project manager : because he 's now have a scroll-wheel that you can push in . industrial designer : oh yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : like on the the mouse . industrial designer : yeah i was thinking still about our uh integrated joystick . marketing : no we have n we have no buttons left . so the joystick was not an option . industrial designer : yeah that is a bummer . marketing : so so you hav project manager : yeah . marketing : so you you have to double-click , i mean , for , i mean , uh volume , project manager : to get into menu . yeah . marketing : and three double click for the menu , or something . user interface : oh no . project manager : or hold it ten seconds . industrial designer : we 'll make it a morse code . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . alright . user interface : marketing : but but ease of use was not very important , may i remind you . project manager : no no no . uh it should be trendy . marketing : so that 's user interface : industrial designer : marketing : yeah but that that 's not a question . industrial designer : marketing : uh the remote control shows the relevant and most used functions . user interface : marketing : well i think it 's pretty much in the middle . project manager : yeah . four . marketing : you have to search for them in in the in the s in the screen , in the menu . so project manager : yeah , im in the menu . user interface : seven . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so maybe it 's more like a f a five . or user interface : yeah . five . industrial designer : yeah i would go for five or six , yeah . marketing : yeah . five or six ? project manager : five . user interface : five . yep . industrial designer : okay five . marketing : five ? alright . industrial designer : let 's not diss our remote . user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's the weirdest remote control i 've ever seen . so marketing : oh . yeah . industrial designer : yep . just one button . project manager : well it 's different . marketing : yeah . alright . uh the the remote control makes use of technolog technological innovation like lcd screen and speech recognition . industrial designer : but uh yep . project manager : yeah . marketing : well yeah but we dropped the speech recognition . but it has at least one innovation . project manager : yeah , it 's still yeah , i say two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we still have the fruit and vegetable print . marketing : i say two then . project manager : oh , that 's the next . marketing : yeah but that that 's not that 's not this question . uh thi uh that 's the other question . industrial designer : fr oh i mean the oh never mind . i 'm a bit lost . project manager : marketing : this one . user interface : i think a two . no . marketing : two yeah . industrial designer : . marketing : i think lcd 's more useful than speech project manager : yeah definitely . marketing : what ? oh not the bold one . industrial designer : it 's way more practical , yeah . marketing : right . okay , it has a fancy look and feel by using fruit and vegetable prints , primary colours and sponge-like material . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it should have been two questions . i realise now , because sponge-like material is dropped . project manager : marketing : but the look and feel project manager : you still have rubber d or no . industrial designer : yeah . so we still uh we still have the primary colours . but only on the on the outside , not on the button . user interface : no you got a plastic . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : the button has also colour . yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah ? project manager : the one button we have . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah . the one . industrial designer : yeah . yeah still we we dropped also on the the double uh curve . project manager : yeah you could check with the excel sheet . marketing : mm mm . user interface : yeah . you only have one yeah . marketing : yeah we have single curve now , industrial designer : and and colour . marketing : and no and no material industrial designer : yeah . s marketing : . so maybe in the middle or something . project manager : yeah . user interface : four . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , i mean it 's project manager : yeah or three . industrial designer : uh marketing : worth the yeah . project manager : we have something . industrial designer : actually we d we did n't do so well on this one . because it 's basically an old one , uh with little curve on the side , and in a different colour . still , it 's still hard . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i mean the sponge-like and the three d_ shape , that would give it something young and fresh . project manager : new . yeah . marketing : yeah . but then we would have to drop the screen . user interface : red . marketing : oh red . yeah . project manager : you like both . marketing : yeah . i like bold . project manager : marketing : uh the remote control displays the corporate logo . project manager : um oh yeah . user interface : mm yeah yeah . industrial designer : of course . project manager : i just could n't marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : you just have to draw it . project manager : um , just one minute . user interface : it 's the white part uh industrial designer : yeah but it be because uh we could n't hardly draw on the b s on the lower half of the screen , we could not make it big enough to actually draw in the project manager : . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so user interface : we have a we have a industrial designer : so i mean i wanted to put digits on the buttons as well . but marketing : but there 's uh enough space for the corporate logo . i mean , if there 's only one thing . industrial designer : hell yeah . if we have only one button . marketing : yeah . so i will say that is very true . project manager : . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and even the shape we have now uh simulates kind of an r_ and the reversed r_ , user interface : industrial designer : does n't it ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so marketing : the remote control is easy to use . well i would say skill , uh i would say six , or something . i do n't think it 's easy to use , or not so . industrial designer : the only e the only thing easy about it is that you do n't have to move your fingers . 'cause it has only one button . marketing : yeah . user interface : and that you only have to control one button . industrial designer : yeah exactly . marketing : yeah . it it it has a nice screen . but yeah . user interface : it gives visual feedback . so marketing : yeah . well i i would say a five or a six . user interface : i think a five . five . industrial designer : i would say six . marketing : what do you say ? easy to use ? five or a six ? industrial designer : it 's really not easy to use . user interface : project manager : no not anymore . user interface : industrial designer : 'cause you 're putting everything marketing : so a six , more . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , uh i would go for the six too . so user interface : okay . yeah . industrial designer : most votes count . um project manager : marketing : user interface : marketing : um well , another question , user interface : yeah that looks uh great . marketing : uh the remote control is durable . user interface : marketing : i do n't know if that 's the correct word . user interface : yeah . nah industrial designer : definitely in casing , 'cause we have a hard plastic marketing : but uh in use , both battery as casing ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah because the the batteries , those thingies last forever . marketing : yeah ? true , true . industrial designer : and the the casing , hard plastic also lasts forever . marketing : and the casing is plastic , ? yeah . if you do n't drop it too much , it 's uh should last pretty long . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i would go for one . marketing : yeah ? but uh i think rubber compared is better . so i think a two is more appropriate user interface : yeah . s project manager : industrial designer : okay yeah . marketing : than user interface : wow . marketing : yeah . logo . project manager : yeah . user interface : marketing : okay i will go go for two . uh the last one ? the remote control 's a good example for company 's motto , we put the fashion in electronics . industrial designer : oh . no m user interface : no we put the electronics into the fashion . project manager : yeah well yeah . industrial designer : i would g marketing : uh turn around . yeah . but um industrial designer : i would go for four . project manager : no marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : because we kind of tried to but we kind of failed with the budget that we have . marketing : it 's not yeah , true . project manager : yeah okay . marketing : so a four . it 's it g it g goes , it 's not the best we could do , i guess . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but it all has to do with the budget , because it 's it 's not the bad idea we had , so industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah . user interface : yeah , four is okay . marketing : alright , yeah . right . project manager : so industrial designer : that 's it . marketing : so if i understood it right , we have to count these numbers . project manager : ooh . and yeah ? what ? marketing : uh yeah . mm-hmm . oh project manager : yeah . marketing : oh alright . word document , the project manager : yeah . that marketing : yeah we have to count them . project manager : count them . add them ? or marketing : uh yeah just add them and then uh divide them . project manager : could somebody start calculator ? marketing : yeah . mm . industrial designer : ah we can do the math . uh marketing : i all made it po i i all made it user interface : marketing : i all made it possible uh for a positive questions , so we can count it . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i mean if you have reversed question , you have to reverse the scale , project manager : yeah , yeah . you have to marketing : uh yes . project manager : 'kay . so four and industrial designer : yeah . did you make this questionnaire or what ? marketing : yeah . thanks . project manager : nice work . user interface : okay . three plus ? industrial designer : i would n't be able to do it that fast . project manager : o one . user interface : plus one . project manager : plus five . user interface : plus five ? marketing : oh easy . project manager : bo marketing : question number four , yeah ? project manager : uh two . marketing : yeah . project manager : four . user interface : oh . wait a second . oh . project manager : user interface : it 's it 's gone wrong . marketing : how hard is it ? user interface : okay . it 's your turn . industrial designer : pretty difficult . marketing : yeah just use project manager : start over ? user interface : no it 's if you press twice on the plus button , then you get s s marketing : oh there tho uh there 's no n there 's no num pads . project manager : you can oh yeah . user interface : no . that 's why it 's uh marketing : it 's a it 's a bit uh industrial designer : just type in the digits . they 're all one digit numbers right ? and then you can count them together . marketing : yeah . i think you can just count them by a user interface : just count it to yeah . marketing : um let 's move over . project manager : okay . three , four , nine . marketing : three , plus one , four . nine . project manager : uh marketing : uh , yeah . are you here ? industrial designer : eleven . marketing : eleven . project manager : eleven , industrial designer : fifteen . marketing : fifteen . project manager : fifteen . user interface : sixteen . industrial designer : sixteen . marketing : sixteen , yeah . industrial designer : seventeen . project manager : seventeen . marketing : no sixteen . uh sixteen plus six . industrial designer : oh what ? user interface : twenty two . project manager : s uh industrial designer : how hard is this ? marketing : twenty two . twenty two , yeah ? user interface : twenty four . twenty six . industrial designer : never mind . twenty four . twenty eight . user interface : oh , sorry . . marketing : twenty twenty eight . project manager : that was the last one . that was that . user interface : oh my . industrial designer : twenty eight . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . twenty eight . project manager : so divided by nine . marketing : twen uh okay . by nine . that 's uh three uh or le less than a three . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah the lower the the lower the score the better , right ? project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . twenty eight industrial designer : yeah but project manager : divided by nine . marketing : di divided by nine project manager : so thr t two . marketing : makes three point one one one one one one one . </s>
<s> what did the marketing think of the external design of the remote control when discussing the material and function issue of it ? </s> marketing : well yeah but we dropped the speech recognition . but it has at least one innovation . project manager : yeah , it 's still yeah , i say two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we still have the fruit and vegetable print . marketing : i say two then . project manager : oh , that 's the next . marketing : yeah but that that 's not that 's not this question . uh thi uh that 's the other question . industrial designer : fr oh i mean the oh never mind . i 'm a bit lost . project manager : marketing : this one . user interface : i think a two . no . marketing : two yeah . industrial designer : . marketing : i think lcd 's more useful than speech project manager : yeah definitely . marketing : what ? oh not the bold one . industrial designer : it 's way more practical , yeah . marketing : right . okay , it has a fancy look and feel by using fruit and vegetable prints , primary colours and sponge-like material . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it should have been two questions . i realise now , because sponge-like material is dropped . project manager : marketing : but the look and feel project manager : you still have rubber d or no . industrial designer : yeah . so we still uh we still have the primary colours . but only on the on the outside , not on the button . user interface : no you got a plastic . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : the button has also colour . yeah . </s>
<s> what did the project manager think of the questionnaire when discussing it to ascertain whether they were on the right track ? </s> industrial designer : because we kind of tried to but we kind of failed with the budget that we have . marketing : it 's not yeah , true . project manager : yeah okay . marketing : so a four . it 's it g it g goes , it 's not the best we could do , i guess . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but it all has to do with the budget , because it 's it 's not the bad idea we had , so industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah . user interface : yeah , four is okay . marketing : alright , yeah . right . project manager : so industrial designer : that 's it . marketing : so if i understood it right , we have to count these numbers . project manager : ooh . and yeah ? what ? marketing : uh yeah . mm-hmm . oh project manager : yeah . marketing : oh alright . word document , the project manager : yeah . that marketing : yeah we have to count them . project manager : count them . add them ? or marketing : uh yeah just add them and then uh divide them . project manager : could somebody start calculator ? marketing : yeah . mm . industrial designer : ah we can do the math . uh marketing : i all made it po i i all made it user interface : marketing : i all made it possible uh for a positive questions , so we can count it . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i mean if you have reversed question , you have to reverse the scale , project manager : yeah , yeah . you have to marketing : uh yes . project manager : 'kay . so four and industrial designer : yeah . did you make this questionnaire or what ? marketing : yeah . thanks . project manager : nice work . user interface : okay . three plus ? industrial designer : i would n't be able to do it that fast . project manager : o one . user interface : plus one . project manager : plus five . user interface : plus five ? marketing : oh easy . project manager : bo marketing : question number four , yeah ? project manager : uh two . marketing : yeah . project manager : four . user interface : oh . wait a second . oh . project manager : user interface : it 's it 's gone wrong . marketing : how hard is it ? user interface : okay . it 's your turn . industrial designer : pretty difficult . marketing : yeah just use project manager : start over ? user interface : no it 's if you press twice on the plus button , then you get s s marketing : oh there tho uh there 's no n there 's no num pads . project manager : you can oh yeah . user interface : no . that 's why it 's uh marketing : it 's a it 's a bit uh industrial designer : just type in the digits . they 're all one digit numbers right ? and then you can count them together . marketing : yeah . i think you can just count them by a user interface : just count it to yeah . marketing : um let 's move over . project manager : okay . three , four , nine . marketing : three , plus one , four . nine . project manager : uh marketing : uh , yeah . are you here ? industrial designer : eleven . marketing : eleven . project manager : eleven , industrial designer : fifteen . marketing : fifteen . project manager : fifteen . user interface : sixteen . industrial designer : sixteen . marketing : sixteen , yeah . industrial designer : seventeen . project manager : seventeen . marketing : no sixteen . uh sixteen plus six . industrial designer : oh what ? user interface : twenty two . project manager : s uh industrial designer : how hard is this ? marketing : twenty two . twenty two , yeah ? user interface : twenty four . twenty six . industrial designer : never mind . twenty four . twenty eight . user interface : oh , sorry . . marketing : twenty twenty eight . project manager : that was the last one . that was that . user interface : oh my . industrial designer : twenty eight . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . twenty eight . project manager : so divided by nine . marketing : twen uh okay . by nine . that 's uh three uh or le less than a three . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah the lower the the lower the score the better , right ? project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . twenty eight industrial designer : yeah but project manager : divided by nine . marketing : di divided by nine project manager : so thr t two . marketing : makes three point one one one one one one one . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd b : we 're , i mean we we did n't have a house before . professor d : yeah . yeah . we 're on again ? ok . phd a : mm - hmm . that is really great . grad h : yeah , so if uh so if anyone has n't signed the consent form , please do so . phd a : that 's terrific . phd b : oh , yeah ! grad h : the new consent form . the new and improved consent form . phd a : now you wo n't be able to walk or ride your bike , huh ? phd b : right . grad h : and uh , shall i go ahead and do some digits ? professor d : uh , we were gon na do that at the end , remember ? grad h : ok , whatever you want . professor d : yeah . just just to be consistent , from here on in at least , that that we 'll do it at the end . phd b : the new consent form . grad h : it 's uh yeah , it does n't matter . ok . professor d : ok um well , it ju i mean it might be that someone here has to go , postdoc f : testing , one , two , three . professor d : and right ? that was that was sort of the point . so , uh i had asked actually anybody who had any ideas for an agenda to send it to me and no one did . so , grad h : so we all forgot . postdoc f : from last time i wanted to uh the an iss uh one topic from last time . professor d : right , s ok , so one item for an agenda is uh jane has some uh uh some research to talk about , research issues . um and uh , adam has some short research issues . grad h : and i have some short research issues . professor d : um , i have a list of things that i think were done over the last three months i was supposed to send off , uh and , um i i sent a note about it to uh to adam and jane but i think i 'll just run through it also and see if someone thinks it 's inaccurate or uh insufficient . phd a : a list that you have to send off to who ? professor d : uh , to uh uh , ibm . ok . they 're , you know so . um , so , uh so , i 'll go through that . um , and , anything else ? anyone wants to talk about ? phd a : what about the , um your trip , yesterday ? professor d : no . ok . um . sort of off - topic i guess . phd a : oh , ok . professor d : cuz that 's cuz that was all all about the , uh i i i can chat with you about that off - line . that 's another thing . um , and , anything else ? nothing else ? uh , there 's a i mean , there is a a , um uh telephone call tomorrow , which will be a conference call that some of us are involved in for uh a possible proposal . um , we 'll talk we 'll talk about it next week if if something grad h : do you want me to be there for that ? i noticed you c c ' ed me , but i was n't actually a recipient . i did n't quite know what to make of that . professor d : uh well , we 'll talk talk about that after our meeting . ok . uh , ok . so it sounds like the the three main things that we have to talk about are , uh this list , uh jane and jane and adam have some research items , and , other than that , anything , as usual , anything goes beyond that . ok , uh , jane , since since you were sort of cut off last time why do n't we start with yours , make sure we get to it . postdoc f : ok , it 's it 's very eh it 's very brief , i mean just let me just hand these out . oops . grad h : is this the same as the email or different ? phd c : thanks . postdoc f : it 's slightly different . i basically the same . phd a : same idea ? postdoc f : but , same idea . so , if you 've looked at this you 've seen it before , so basically , um as you know , uh part of the encoding includes a mark that indicates an overlap . it 's not indicated with , um uh , tight precision , it 's just indicated that ok , so , it 's indicated to to so the people know what parts of sp which which stretches of speech were in the clear , versus being overlapped by others . so , i used this mark and , um and , uh uh , divided the i wrote a script which divides things into individual minutes , of which we ended up with forty five , and a little bit . and , uh you know , minute zero , of course , is the first minute up to sixty seconds . and , um what you can see is the number of overlaps and then to the right , whether they involve two speakers , three speakers , or more than three speakers . and , um and , what i was looking for sp sp specifically was the question of whether they 're distributed evenly throughout or whether they 're bursts of them . um . and it looked to me as though uh , you know y this is just eh eh , this would this is not statistically verified , but it did look to me as though there are bursts throughout , rather than being localized to a particular region . the part down there , where there 's the maximum number of of , um overlaps is an area where we were discussing whether or not it would be useful to indi to s to code stress , uh , sentence stress as possible indication of , uh information retrieval . so it 's like , you know , rather , lively discussion there . professor d : what was what 's the the parenthesized stuff that says , like e the first one that says six overlaps and then two point eight ? postdoc f : oh , th that 's the per cent . so , six is , uh two point eight percent of the total number of overlaps in the session . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : mm - hmm . postdoc f : at the very end , this is when people were , you know , packing up to go basically , there 's this final stuff , i think we i do n't remember where the digits fell . i 'd have to look at that . but the final three there are no overlaps at all . and couple times there are not . phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc f : so , i it seems like it goes through bursts but , um that 's kind of it . phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc f : now , another question is is there are there individual differences in whether you 're likely to be overlapped with or to overlap with others . and , again i want to emphasize this is just one particular um one particular meeting , and also there 's been no statistical testing of it all , but i , um i took the coding of the i , you know , my i had this script figure out , um who was the first speaker , who was the second speaker involved in a two - person overlap , i did n't look at the ones involving three or more . and , um this is how it breaks down in the individual cells of who tended to be overlapping most often with who who else , and if you look at the marginal totals , which is the ones on the right side and across the bottom , you get the totals for an individual . so , um if you look at the bottom , those are the , um numbers of overlaps in which um adam was involved as the person doing the overlapping and if you look i 'm sorry , but you 're o alphabetical , that 's why i 'm choosing you and then if you look across the right , then that 's where he was the person who was the sp first speaker in the pair and got overlap overlapped with by somebody . phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and , then if you look down in the summary table , then you see that , um th they 're differences in whether a person got overlapped with or overlapped by . grad h : is this uh just raw counts or is it postdoc f : raw counts . grad h : so it would be interesting to see how much each person spoke . phd b : mm - hmm . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah yeah postdoc f : yes , very true very true grad h : normalized to how much postdoc f : it would be good to normalize with respect to that . now on the table i did take one step toward , uh away from the raw frequencies by putting , uh percentages . so that the percentage of time of the of the times that a person spoke , what percentage eh , w so . of the times a person spoke and furthermore was involved in a two two - person overlap , what percentage of the time were they the overlapper and what percent of the time were they th the overlappee ? and there , it looks like you see some differences , um , that some people tend to be overlapped with more often than they 're overlapped , but , of course , uh i e this is just one meeting , uh there 's no statistical testing involved , and that would be required for a for a finding of any kind of scientific reliability . professor d : s so , i it would be statistically incorrect to conclude from this that adam talked too much or something . grad h : no no actually , that would be actually statistically correct , professor d : yeah , yeah . postdoc f : no , no , no . phd e : yeah , yeah . yeah , yeah . postdoc f : yeah , that 's right . professor d : yeah . excuse me . postdoc f : that 's right . and i 'm you know , i 'm i do n't see a point of singling people out , professor d : b i i i rather enjoyed it , but but this postdoc f : now , this is a case where obviously phd a : but the numbers speak for themselves . phd e : he 's yeah , yeah , yeah . postdoc f : well , you know , it 's like i 'm not i 'm not saying on the tape who did better or worse grad h : yes , that 's right , so you do n't nee ok . professor d : sure . postdoc f : because i do n't think that it 's i you know , and and th here 's a case where of course , human subjects people would say be sure that you anonymize the results , and and , so , might as well do this . professor d : yeah . grad h : yeah , when this is what this is actually when jane sent this email first , is what caused me to start thinking about anonymizing the data . postdoc f : well , fair enough . fair enough . professor d : yeah . postdoc f : and actually , you know , the point is not about an individual , it 's the point about tendencies toward you know , different styles , different speaker styles . professor d : oh sure . postdoc f : and it would be , you know of course , there 's also the question of what type of overlap was this , and w what were they , and i and i and i know that i can distinguish at least three types and , probably more , i mean , the general cultural idea which w uh , the conversation analysts originally started with in the seventies was that we have this strict model where politeness involves that you let the person finish th before you start talking , and and you know , i mean , w we know that an and they 've loosened up on that too s in the intervening time , that that that 's that 's viewed as being a culturally - relative thing , i mean , that you have the high - involvement style from the east coast where people will overlap often as an indication of interest in what the other person is saying . and grad h : uh - huh . phd b : exactly ! postdoc f : yeah , exactly ! well , there you go . fine , that 's alright , that 's ok . and and , you know , in contrast , so deborah d and also deborah tannen 's thesis she talked about differences of these types , that they 're just different styles , and it 's um you you ca n't impose a model of there of the ideal being no overlaps , and you know , conversational analysts also agree with that , so it 's now , universally a ag agreed with . and and , als i mean , i ca n't say universally , but anyway , the people who used to say it was strict , um now , uh do n't . i mean they they also you know , uh uh , ack acknowledge the influence of sub of subcultural norms and cross - cultural norms and things . so , um then it beco though so just just superficially to give um a couple ideas of the types of overlaps involved , i have at the bottom several that i noticed . so , uh , there are backchannels , like what adam just did now and , um um , anticipating the end of a question and simply answering it earlier , and there are several of those in this in these data where phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc f : because we 're people who 've talked to each other , um we know basically what the topic is , what the possibilities are and w and we 've spoken with each other so we know basically what the other person 's style is likely to be and so and t there are a number of places where someone just answered early . no problem . and places also which i thought were interesting , where two or more people gave exactly th the same answer in unison different words of course but you know , the basically , you know everyone 's saying `` yes `` or you know , or ev even more sp specific than that . so , uh , the point is that , um overlap 's not necessarily a bad thing and that it would be im i useful to subdivide these further and see if there are individual differences in styles with respect to the types involved . and that 's all i wanted to say on that , unless people have questions . professor d : well , of course th the biggest , um result here , which is one we 've we 've talked about many times and is n't new to us , but which i think would be interesting to show someone who is n't familiar with this is just the sheer number of overlaps . that that right ? that that , um phd e : yes , yes ! postdoc f : oh , ok interesting . phd e : yeah . professor d : here 's a relatively short meeting , it 's a forty forty plus minute meeting , and not only were there two hundred and fifteen overlaps but , uh i think there 's one one minute there where there where where there was n't any overlap ? grad h : hundred ninety - seven . professor d : i mean , it 's uh throughout this thing ? phd a : it 'd be interesting professor d : it 's you have postdoc f : well , at the bottom , you have the bottom three . phd e : yeah . grad h : s n are postdoc f : so four four minutes all together with none none . phd a : but it w professor d : oh , so the bottom three did have s stuff going on ? there was speech ? postdoc f : yes , uh - huh . yeah . but just no overlaps . professor d : ok , so if the this phd a : it 'd be interesting to see what the total amount of time is in the overlaps , versus postdoc f : yes , exactly and that 's that 's where jose 's pro project comes in . phd e : yeah , yeah , i h i have this that infor i have th that information now . phd g : i was about to ask phd a : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor d : oh , about how much is it ? phd e : the the duration of eh of each of the overlaps . professor d : o oh , what 's what 's the what 's the average length ? phd e : m i i have n't averaged it now but , uh i i will , uh i will do the the study of the with the with the program with the uh , the different , uh the , nnn , distribution of the duration of the overlaps . professor d : you do n't know ? ok , you you don you do n't have a feeling for roughly how much it is ? yeah . phd e : mmm , because the the uh , @ @ is @ @ . professor d : yeah . phd e : the duration is , uh the variation the variation of the duration is uh , very big on the dat phd a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : i suspect that it will also differ , depending on the type of overlap involved . phd e : but eh professor d : oh , i 'm sure . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : so backchannels will be very brief phd e : because , on your surface eh a bit of zone of overlapping with the duration eh , overlapped and another very very short . postdoc f : and professor d : yeah . yeah . phd e : uh , i probably it 's very difficult to to because the the overlap is , uh on is only the in the final `` s `` of the of the the fin the the end the end word of the , um previous speaker with the the next word of the the new speaker . phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : um , i considered that 's an overlap but it 's very short , it 's an `` x `` with a and the idea is probably , eh when eh when eh , we studied th th that zone , eh eh , we h we have eh eh confusion with eh eh noise . phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : with eh that fricative sounds , but uh i have new information but i have to to study . professor d : yeah . yeah , but i i 'd u phd g : can i professor d : go ahead . postdoc f : yeah . phd g : you split this by minute , um so if an overlap straddles the boundary between two minutes , that counts towards both of those minutes . postdoc f : yes . mm - hmm . actually , um um actually not . uh , so le let 's think about the case where a starts speaking and then b overlaps with a , and then the minute boundary happens . and let 's say that after that minute boundary , um b is still speaking , and a overlaps with b , that would be a new overlap . but otherwise um , let 's say b comes to the conclusion of of that turn without anyone overlapping with him or her , in which case there would be no overlap counted in that second minute . phd g : no , but suppose they both talk simultaneously both a a portion of it is in minute one and another portion of minute two . postdoc f : ok . in that case , um my c the coding that i was using since we have n't , uh incorporated adam 's , uh coding of overlap yets , the coding of yeah , `` yets `` is not a word . uh since we have n't incorporated adam 's method of handling overl overlaps yet um then that would have fallen through the cra cracks . it would be an underestimate of the number of overlaps because , um i wou i would n't be able to pick it up from the way it was encoded so far . we just have n't done th the precise second to sec you know , second to second coding of when they occur . professor d : i i i 'm i 'm i 'm confused now . so l l let me restate what i thought andreas was saying and and see . postdoc f : uh - huh . professor d : let 's say that in in second fifty - seven of one minute , you start talking and i start talking and we ignore each other and keep on talking for six seconds . postdoc f : yep . ok . mm - hmm . professor d : so we go over so we were we were talking over one another , and it 's just in each case , it 's just sort of one interval . right ? postdoc f : mm - hmm ? professor d : so , um we talked over the minute boundary . is this considered as one overlap in each of the minutes , the way you have done this . postdoc f : no , it would n't . it would be considered as an overlap in the first one . professor d : ok , so that 's good , i i think , in the sense that i think andreas meant the question , phd b : that 's that 's good , yeah , cuz the overall rate is phd g : yeah . grad h : statistical . phd b : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor d : right ? postdoc f : yeah . they 're not double counted . phd g : other - otherwise you 'd get double counts , here and there . phd b : ah but , yeah . phd e : yeah . phd g : and then it would be harder professor d : yeah . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : i should also say i did a simplifying , uh count in that if a was speaking b overlapped with a and then a came back again and overlapped with b again , i i did n't count that as a three - person overlap , i counted that as a two - person overlap , and it was a being overlapped with by d . grad h : mm - hmm . postdoc f : because the idea was the first speaker had the floor and the second person started speaking and then the f the first person reasserted the floor kind of thing . phd b : yeah . postdoc f : these are simplifying assumptions , did n't happen very often , there may be like three overlaps affected that way in the whole thing . grad h : i want to go back and listen to minute forty - one . postdoc f : yeah , yeah . grad h : cuz i i i find it interesting that there were a large number of overlaps and they were all two - speaker . professor d : yeah . grad h : i mean what i thought what i would have thought in is that when there were a large number of overlaps , it was because everyone was talking at once , but uh apparently not . postdoc f : that 's interesting . that 's interesting . phd e : yeah . yeah . mmm . grad h : that 's really neat . professor d : yeah . postdoc f : yeah , there 's a lot of backchannel , a lot o a lot of grad h : this is really interesting data . postdoc f : yeah , it is . phd b : i think what 's really interesting though , it is before d saying `` yes , meetings have a lot of overlaps `` is to actually find out how many more we have than two - party . postdoc f : i think so too , i think phd b : cuz in two - party conversations , like switchboard , there 's an awful lot too if you just look at backchannels , if you consider those overlaps ? it 's also ver it 's huge . it 's just that people have n't been looking at that because they 've been doing single - channel processing for speech recognition . grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : so , the question is , you know , how many more overlaps do you have of , say the two - person type , by adding more people . to a meeting , and it may be a lot more but i it may it may not be . professor d : well , but see , i find it interesting even if it was n't any more , because since we were dealing with this full duplex sort of thing in switchboard where it was just all separated out we just everything was just nice , phd b : mm - hmm ? professor d : so that so the issue is in in a situation where th that 's phd b : well , it 's not really `` nice `` . it depends what you 're doing . so if you were actually having , uh depends what you 're doing , if right now we 're do we have individual mikes on the people in this meeting . so the question is , you know `` are there really more overlaps happening than there would be in a two - person party `` . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : and and there well may be , but professor d : let let m let me rephrase what i 'm saying cuz i do n't think i 'm getting it across . what what i what i should n't use words like `` nice `` because maybe that 's too i too imprecise . but what i mean is that , um in switchboard , despite the many many other problems that we have , one problem that we 're not considering is overlap . and what we 're doing now is , aside from the many other differences in the task , we are considering overlap and one of the reasons that we 're considering it , you know , one of them not all of them , one of them is that w uh at least , you know i 'm very interested in the scenario in which , uh both people talking are pretty much equally audible , and from a single microphone . and so , in that case , it does get mixed in , and it 's pretty hard to jus to just ignore it , to just do processing on one and not on the other . phd b : i i agree that it 's an issue here but it 's also an issue for switchboard and if you think of meetings being recorded over the telephone , which i think , you know , this whole point of studying meetings is n't just to have people in a room but to also have meetings over different phone lines . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : maybe far field mike people would n't be interested in that but all the dialogue issues still apply , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : so if each of us was calling and having a meeting that way you kn you know like a conference call . and , just the question is , y you know , in switchboard you would think that 's the simplest case of a meeting of more than one person , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : and i 'm wondering how much more overlap of the types that that jane described happen with more people present . so it may be that having three people is very different from having two people or it may not be . professor d : that 's an important question to ask . i think what i 'm all i 'm s really saying is that i do n't think we were considering that in switchboard . phd b : not you , me . but uh but but professor d : were you ? grad h : though it was n't in the design . professor d : were you were you were you were you measuring it ? i mean , w w were phd b : there there 's actually to tell you the truth , the reason why it 's hard to measure is because of so , from the point of view of studying dialogue , i mean , which dan jurafsky and andreas and i had some projects on , you want to know the sequence of turns . professor d : yeah . phd b : so what happens is if you 're talking and i have a backchannel in the middle of your turn , and then you keep going what it looks like in a dialogue model is your turn and then my backchannel , professor d : yeah . phd b : even though my backchannel occurred completely inside your turn . professor d : yeah ? phd b : so , for things like language modeling or dialogue modeling it 's we know that that 's wrong in real time . professor d : yeah ? phd b : but , because of the acoustic segmentations that were done and the fact that some of the acoustic data in switchboard were missing , people could n't study it , but that does n't mean in the real world that people do n't talk that way . so , it 's um professor d : yeah , i was n't saying that . right ? i was just saying that w now we 're looking at it . phd b : well , we 've als professor d : and and and , you you maybe wanted to look at it before but , for these various technical reasons in terms of how the data was you were n't . phd b : right . we 're looking at it here . professor d : so that 's why it 's coming to us as new even though it may well be you know , if your if your hypothes the hypothesis you were offering eh right ? if it 's the null poth { comment } hypothesis , and if actually you have as much overlap in a two - person , we do n't know the answer to that . the reason we do n't know the answer to is cuz it was n't studied and it was n't studied because it was n't set up . right ? phd b : yeah , all i meant is that if you 're asking the question from the point of view of what 's different about a meeting , studying meetings of , say , more than two people versus what kinds of questions you could ask with a two - person meeting . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : it 's important to distinguish that , you know , this project is getting a lot of overlap but other projects were too , but we just could n't study them . and and so uh professor d : may have been . may have been . right ? phd b : well , there is a high rate , professor d : we do kn we do n't know the numbers . phd b : so . it 's but i do n't know how high , in fact phd a : well , here i have a question . phd b : that would be interesting to know . professor d : see , i mean , i i le let me t i mean , my point was just if you wanted to say to somebody , `` what have we learned about overlaps here ? `` just never mind comparison with something else , phd b : mm - hmm . professor d : what we 've learned about is overlaps in this situation , is that the first the first - order thing i would say is that there 's a lot of them . right ? phd e : yeah . professor d : in in the sense that i if you said if i i i phd b : yeah , i i do n't di i agree with that . professor d : in a way , i guess what i 'm comparing to is more the common sense notion of how how much people overlap . uh you know the fact that when when when , uh , adam was looking for a stretch of of speech before , that did n't have any overlaps , and he w he was having such a hard time and now i look at this and i go , `` well , i can see why he was having such a hard time `` . phd b : right . that 's also true of switchboard . professor d : it 's happening a lot . phd b : it may not be professor d : i was n't saying it was n't . phd b : right . so it 's just , um professor d : right ? i was commenting about this . phd b : ok . all i 'm saying is that from the professor d : i 'm saying if i i 'm saying if i have this complicated thing in front of me , and we sh which , you know we 're gon na get much more sophisticated about when we get lots more data , but then , if i was gon na describe to somebody what did you learn right here , about , you know , the the modest amount of data that was analyzed i 'd say , `` well , the first - order thing was there was a lot of overlaps `` . in fact and it 's not just an overlap bunch of overlaps second - order thing is it 's not just a bunch of overlaps in one particular point , but that there 's overlaps , uh throughout the thing . grad h : right . phd b : right . no , i i agree with that . professor d : and that 's interesting . that 's all . phd b : i 'm just saying that it may the reason you get overlaps may or may not be due to sort of the number of people in the meeting . professor d : oh yeah . phd b : and that 's all . professor d : yeah . yeah , i was n't making any statement about that . phd b : and and it would actually be interesting to find out professor d : yeah . phd b : because some of the data say switchboard , which is n't exactly the same kind of context , i mean these are two people who do n't know each other and so forth , but we should still be able to somehow say what what is the added contra contribution to sort of overlap time of each additional person , or something like that . professor d : yeah , that would be good to know , phd a : what professor d : but w we postdoc f : ok , now . grad h : i could certainly see it going either way . postdoc f : wh - yeah , i i agree i agree with adam . phd b : but yeah . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : and the reason is because i think there 's a limit there 's an upper bound on how many you can have , simply from the standpoint of audibility . when we speak we we do make a judgment of `` can `` you know , as adults . phd b : right . professor d : mm - hmm . postdoc f : i mean , children do n't adjust so well , i mean , if a truck goes rolling past , adults will well , depending , but mostly , adults will will will hold off to what to finish the end of the sentence till the till the noise is past . professor d : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and i think we generally do monitor things like that , about whether we whether our utterance will be in the clear or not . phd b : right . postdoc f : and partly it 's related to rhythmic structure in conversation , so , you know , you you t yeah , this is d also um , people tend to time their their their , um when they come into the conversation based on the overall rhythmic , uh uh , ambient thing . phd a : well phd b : right . postdoc f : so you do n't want to be c cross - cutting . and and , just to finish this , that um that i think that there may be an upper bound on how many overlaps you can have , simply from the standpoint of audibility and how loud the other people are who are already in the fray . but i you know , of certain types . now if it 's just backchannels , people may be doing that with less intention of being heard , just sort of spontaneously doing backchannels , in which case that those might there may be no upper bound on those . phd g : i i have a feeling that backchannels , which are the vast majority of overlaps in switchboard , uh , do n't play as big a role here , because it 's very unnatural i think , to backchannel if in a multi - audience you know , in a multi - person audience . phd b : if you can see them , actually . it 's interesting , so if you watch people are going like { comment } { comment } right right , like this here , phd g : right . phd e : yeah . phd b : but that may not be the case if you could n't see them . phd g : but but , it 's sort of odd if one person 's speaking and everybody 's listening , and it 's unusual to have everybody going `` uh - huh , uh - huh `` professor d : actually , i think i 've done it a fair number of times today . phd b : yeah . there 's a lot of head - nodding , in this phd g : yeah . grad h : yep , we need to put trackers on it . phd a : in in the two - person phd e : yeah , yeah , yeah . postdoc f : he could , he could . phd g : plus plus plus the yeah . so so actually , um that 's in part because the nodding , if you have visual contact , the nodding has the same function , but on the phone , in switchboard you you that would n't work . so so you need to use the backchannel . grad h : yeah , you do n't have it . your mike is phd a : so , in the two - person conversations , when there 's backchannel , is there a great deal of overlap in the speech ? grad h : that is an earphone , so if you just put it so it 's on your ear . phd a : or cuz my impression is sometimes it happens when there 's a pause , grad h : there you go . phd b : yeah . postdoc f : e for example . grad h : thank you . phd a : you know , like you you get a lot of backchannel , when somebody 's pausing phd b : yes . right . postdoc f : she 's doing that . phd b : sorry , what were you saying ? phd a : it 's hard to do both , huh ? um no , when when when there 's backchannel , i mean , just i was just listening , and and when there 's two people talking and there 's backchannel it seems like , um the backchannel happens when , you know , the pitch drops and the first person and a lot of times , the first person actually stops talking and then there 's a backchannel and then they start up again , and so i 'm wondering about h i just wonder how much overlap there is . is there a lot ? phd b : i think there 's a lot of the kind that jose was talking about , where i mean , this is called `` precision timing `` in conversation analysis , where they come in overlapping , but at a point where the information is mostly complete . so all you 're missing is some last syllables or something or the last word or some highly predictable words . phd a : mmm . mm - hmm . phd b : so technically , it 's an overlap . phd a : but maybe a just a small overlap ? phd b : but you know , from information flow point of view it 's not an overlap in the predictable information . phd e : more , yeah . grad h : it 'd be interesting if we could do prediction . phd a : i was just thinking more in terms of alignment , alignment overlap . phd b : yeah . grad h : language model prediction of overlap , that would be really interesting . phd g : so so phd b : well , that 's exactly , exactly why we wanted to study the precise timing of overlaps ins in uh switchboard , professor d : yeah . phd g : right . grad h : right . phd b : say , because there 's a lot of that . phd g : so so here 's a here 's a first interesting labeling task . uh , to distinguish between , say , backchannels precision timing sort of you know , benevolent overlaps , and and and w and and sort of , um i do n't know , hostile overlaps , where someone is trying to grab the floor from someone else . grad h : mm - hmm . let 's pick a different word . phd e : yeah . phd g : uh , that that might be an interesting , um problem to look at . phd a : hostile takeovers . phd e : yeah . professor d : yeah . phd e : yeah . yeah . postdoc f : well , i mean you could do that . i ju i i think that in this meeting i really had the feeling that was n't happening , that the hostile hostile type . these were these were benevolent types , as people finishing each other 's sentences , and stuff . phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : um , i could imagine that as there 's a fair number of um cases where , and this is sort of , not really hostile , but sort of competitive , where one person is finishing something and you have , like , two or three people jumping trying to trying to trying to , uh grab the next turn . grad h : trying to get the floor . professor d : yeah . phd g : and so it 's not against the person who talks first because actually we 're all waiting for that person to finish . but they all want to be next . professor d : i have a feeling most of these things are that that are not a benevolent kind are are are , uh um are are competitive as opposed to real really really hostile . phd g : right . phd a : i wonder what determines who gets the floor ? postdoc f : yeah , i agree . i agree . phd a : i mean postdoc f : well , there are various things , you you have the professor d : uh a vote vote in florida . grad h : it 's been studied a lot . professor d : yeah . phd e : voting for professor d : um , o one thing i i wanted to or you can tell a good joke and then everybody 's laughing and you get a chance to g break in . phd g : seniority . professor d : but . but . um . you know , the other thing i was thinking was that , um these all these interesting questions are , of course , pretty hard to answer with , uh u you know , a small amount of data . so , um i wonder if what you 're saying suggests that we should make a conscious attempt to have , um a a fair number of meetings with , uh a smaller number of people . right ? i mean we most of our meetings are uh , meetings currently with say five , six , seven , eight people should we really try to have some two - person meetings , or some three - person meetings and re record them just to to to beef up the the statistics on that ? postdoc f : that 's a control . well , it seems like there are two possibilities there , i mean i it seems like if you have just two people it 's not really , y like a meeting , w is not as similar as the rest of the of the sample . it depends on what you 're after , of course , but it seems like that would be more a case of the control condition , compared to , uh an experimental condition , with more than two . grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : well , liz was raising the question of of whether i it 's the number there 's a relationship between the number of people and the number of overlaps or type of overlaps there , postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor d : and , um if you had two people meeting in this kind of circumstance then you 'd still have the visuals . you would n't have that difference also that you have in the say , in switchboard data . uh postdoc f : mm - hmm . yeah , i 'm just thinking that 'd be more like a c control condition . professor d : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . grad h : well , but from the acoustic point of view , it 's all good . phd e : is the same . professor d : yeah , acoustic is fine , but phd g : if if the goal were to just look at overlap you would you could serve yourself save yourself a lot of time but not even transcri transcribe the words . phd b : well , i was thinking you should be able to do this from the acoustics , on the close - talking mikes , professor d : yeah . grad h : well , that 's the that was my my status report , phd b : right ? postdoc f : you 've been working on that . phd b : right , i mean adam was phd e : yeah . postdoc f : yeah . grad h : so once we 're done with this stuff discussing , phd b : right . i mean , not as well as what i mean , you would n't be able to have any kind of typology , obviously , professor d : yeah . phd b : but you 'd get some rough statistics . grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : but what what do you think about that ? do you think that would be useful ? i 'm just thinking that as an action item of whether we should try to record some two - person meetings or something . phd b : i guess my my first comment was , um only that um we should n not attribute overlaps only to meetings , but maybe that 's obvious , maybe everybody knew that , professor d : yeah . phd b : but that in normal conversation with two people there 's an awful lot of the same kinds of overlap , and that it would be interesting to look at whether there are these kinds of constraints that jane mentioned , that what maybe the additional people add to this competition that happens right after a turn , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : you know , because now you can have five people trying to grab the turn , but pretty quickly there 're they back off and you go back to this sort of only one person at a time with one person interrupting at a time . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : so , i do n't know . to answer your question i it i do n't think it 's crucial to have controls but i think it 's worth recording all the meetings we can . so , um you know . professor d : well , ok . phd e : yeah . phd g : i i have an idea . phd b : d i would n't not record a two - person meeting just because it only has two people . grad h : right . phd g : could we could we , um we have have in the past and i think continue will continue to have a fair number of uh phone conference calls . professor d : uh - huh . phd g : and , uh , and as a to , um as another c c comparison condition , we could um see what what what happens in terms of overlap , when you do n't have visual contact . grad h : yeah , we talked about this repeatedly . phd g : so , um phd b : can we actually record ? grad h : it just seems like that 's a very different thing than what we 're doing . professor d : uh well , we 'll have to set up for it . phd b : i mean physically can we record the o the other professor d : yeah . well , we 're not really set up for it to do that . but . phd g : or , this is getting a little extravagant , we could put up some kind of blinds or something to to remove , uh visual contact . professor d : yeah . phd c : yeah . grad h : barriers ! phd b : that 's what they did on map task , you know , this map task corpus ? they ran exactly the same pairs of people with and without visual cues and it 's quite interesting . professor d : well , we we record this meeting so regularly it would n't be that i mean a little strange . grad h : ok , we can record , but no one can look at each other . phd b : well , we could just put b blindfolds on . phd c : yeah . phd g : well y no you f grad h : close your eyes . postdoc f : blindf phd g : yeah , yeah . grad h : turn off the lights . phd b : and we 'd take a picture of everybody sitting here with blindfolds . that would professor d : oh , th that was the other thing , were n't we gon na take a picture at the beginning of each of these meetings ? grad h : um , what i had thought we were gon na do is just take pictures of the whiteboards . rather than take pictures of the meeting . postdoc f : well , linguistic grad h : and , uh postdoc f : yeah . linguistic anthropologists would would suggest it would be useful to also take a picture of the meeting . professor d : there 's a head nodding here vigorously , yeah . phd a : why why do we want to have a picture of the meeting ? phd b : ee - you mean , transc no postdoc f : the because you get then the spatial relationship of the speakers . phd e : yeah yeah . postdoc f : and that could be phd g : well , you could do that by just noting on the enrollment sheet the the seat number . phd e : yeah . grad h : seat number , that 's a good idea . i 'll do that . phd e : yeah . grad h : i 'll do that on the next set of forms . phd e : yeah . phd g : so you 'd number them somehow . phd e : is possible to get information from the rhythmic f from the ge , eh uh , files . grad h : i finally remembered to put , uh put native language on the newer forms . phd a : we can ca n't you figure it out from the mike number ? grad h : the wireless ones . and even the jacks , i mean , i 'm sitting here and the jack is over in front of you . phd b : but probably from these you could 've { comment } infer it . phd g : yeah , but it 's it would be trivial grad h : it would be another task . phd b : it would be a research task . grad h : having having ground tu truth would be nice , so seat number would be good . phd a : you know where you could get it ? phd b : yeah , yeah . phd a : beam - forming during the digit uh stuff . phd e : yeah . grad h : so i 'm gon na put little labels on all the chairs with the seat number . phd c : mm - hmm . grad h : that 's a good idea . phd b : but you have to keep the chairs in the same pla like here . phd g : not the chairs . the chairs are chairs are movable . grad h : but , uh phd g : put them like , put them on the table where they phd e : the chair { comment } yeah . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : but you know , they the s the linguistic anthropologists would say it would be good to have a digital picture anyway , phd a : just remembered a joke . postdoc f : because you get a sense also of posture . posture , and we could like , you know , block out the person 's face or whatever phd g : what people were wearing . grad h : yeah . phd b : the fashion statement . postdoc f : but but , you know , these are important cues , phd g : oh , andreas was phd a : how big their heads are . postdoc f : i mean the the how a person is sitting is professor d : but if you just f but from one picture , i do n't know that you really get that . phd g : yeah . andreas was wearing that same old sweater again . professor d : right ? you 'd want a video for that , i think . postdoc f : it 'd be better than nothing , is is i just from a single picture i think you can tell some aspects . phd e : a video , yeah . professor d : think so ? postdoc f : i mean i i could tell you i mean , if i if i 'm in certain meetings i notice that there are certain people who really do eh the body language is very uh is very interesting in terms of the dominance aspect . phd g : and and yeah . and and morgan had that funny hair again . postdoc f : yeah . { comment } well , i mean you black out the that part . but it 's just , you know , the the body phd a : he agreed . postdoc f : you know ? grad h : of course , the where we sit at the table , i find is very interesting , that we do tend to cong to gravitate to the same place each time . postdoc f : yeah . grad h : and it 's somewhat coincidental . i 'm sitting here so that i can run into the room if the hardware starts , you know , catching fire or something . phd g : oh , no , you you just like to be in charge , that 's why you 're sitting grad h : i just want to be at the head of the table . phd g : yeah . grad h : take control . professor d : speaking of taking control , you said you had some research to talk about . postdoc f : yeah . yeah . grad h : yeah , i 've been playing with , um uh , using the close - talking mike to do to try to figure out who 's speaking . so my first attempt was just using thresholding and filtering , that we talked about about two weeks ago , and so i played with that a little bit , and it works o k , except that it 's very sensitive to your choice of your filter width and your threshold . so if you fiddle around with it a little bit and you get good numbers you can actually do a pretty good job of segmenting when someone 's talking and when they 're not . but if you try to use the same paramenters on another speaker , it does n't work anymore , even if you normalize it based on the absolute loudness . phd b : but does it work for that one speaker throughout the whole meeting ? grad h : it does work for the one speaker throughout the whole meeting . um pretty well . phd a : how did you do it adam ? grad h : pretty well . how did i do it ? phd a : yeah . grad h : what do you mean ? phd a : i mean , wh what was the grad h : the algorithm was , uh take o every frame that 's over the threshold , and then median - filter it , and then look for runs . phd a : yeah . mm - hmm . grad h : so there was a minimum run length , phd a : every frame that 's over what threshold ? grad h : so that a threshold that you pick . phd a : in terms of energy ? ah ! grad h : yeah . postdoc f : say that again ? frame over fres threshold . grad h : so you take a each frame , and you compute the energy and if it 's over the threshold you set it to one , and if it 's under the threshold you set it to zero , so now you have a bit stream of zeros and ones . postdoc f : hmm . ok . grad h : and then i median - filtered that using , um a fairly long filter length . uh well , actually i guess depends on what you mean by long , you know , tenth of a second sorts of numbers . um and that 's to average out you know , pitch , you know , the pitch contours , and things like that . and then , uh looked for long runs . and that works o k , if you fil if you tune the filter parameters , if you tune how long your median filter is and how high you 're looking for your thresholds . phd a : did you ever try running the filter before you pick a threshold ? grad h : no . i certainly could though . but this was just i had the program mostly written already so it was easy to do . ok and then the other thing i did , was i took javier 's speaker - change detector acoustic - change detector , and i implemented that with the close - talking mikes , and unfortunately that 's not working real well , and it looks like it 's the problem is he does it in two passes , the first pass is to find candidate places to do a break . and he does that using a neural net doing broad phone classification and he has the the , uh one of the phone classes is silence . and so the possible breaks are where silence starts and ends . and then he has a second pass which is a modeling a gaussian mixture model . um looking for uh whether it improves or or degrades to split at one of those particular places . and what looks like it 's happening is that the even on the close - talking mike the broad phone class classifier 's doing a really bad job . phd a : who was it trained on ? grad h : uh , i have no idea . i do n't remember . does an do you remember , morgan , was it broadcast news ? professor d : i think so , yeah . grad h : um so , at any rate , my next attempt , which i 'm in the midst of and have n't quite finished yet was actually using the uh , thresholding as the way of generating the candidates . because one of the things that definitely happens is if you put the threshold low you get lots of breaks . all of which are definitely acoustic events . they 're definitely someone talking . but , like , it could be someone who is n't the person here , but the person over there or it can be the person breathing . and then feeding that into the acoustic change detector . and so i think that might work . but , i have n't gotten very far on that . but all of this is close - talking mike , so it 's , uh just just trying to get some ground truth . phd e : only with eh uh , but eh i i i think , eh when when , y i i saw the the the the speech from pda and , eh close talker . i i think the there is a a great difference in the in the signal . grad h : oh , absolutely . phd e : um but eh i but eh i i i mean that eh eh in the in the mixed file you can find , uh zone with , eh great different , eh level of energy . grad h : so s my intention for this is is as an aide for ground truth . not phd e : um i i think for , eh algorithm based on energy , eh , that um h mmm , more or less , eh , like eh eh , mmm , first sound energy detector . grad h : say it again ? phd e : eh nnn . when y you the detect the the the first at at the end of of the detector of , ehm princ um . what is the the name in english ? the the , mmm , the de detector of , ehm of a word in the in the s in an isolated word in in the background that , uh grad h : i 'm i 'm not sure what you 're saying , can you try phd e : i mean that when when you use , eh eh any phd a : i think he 's saying the onset detector . phd e : yeah . grad h : onset detector , ok . phd e : i i think it 's probably to work well eh , because , eh you have eh , in the mixed files a great level of energy . eh and great difference between the sp speaker . and probably is not so easy when you use the the pda , eh that because the signal is , eh the in the e energy level . grad h : right . phd e : in in that , eh eh speech file is , eh more similar . between the different eh , speaker , um i i think is eh , it will i is my opinion . grad h : right . but different speakers . phd e : it will be , eh more difficult to to detect bass - tone energy . the the change . i think that , um grad h : ah , in the clo in the p d a , you mean ? phd e : in the pda . grad h : absolutely . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad h : yeah , no question . it 'll be much harder . professor d : yeah . grad h : much harder . phd e : and the the another question , that when i review the the the work of javier . i think the , nnn , the , nnn , that the idea of using a neural network to to get a broad class of phonetic , eh from , eh uh a candidate from the the the speech signal . if you have , eh uh , i 'm considering , only because javier , eh only consider , eh like candidate , the , nnn , eh the silence , because it is the the only model , eh eh , he used that , eh eh nnn , to detect the the possibility of a a change between the between the speaker , grad h : right . phd e : um another another research thing , different groups , eh working , eh on broadcast news prefer to , eh to consider hypothesis eh between each phoneme . grad h : mm - hmm . yeah , when a phone changes . phd e : because , i i i think it 's more realistic that , uh only consider the the the the silence between the speaker . eh there there exists eh silence between between , eh a speaker . is is , eh eh acoustic , eh event , important to to consider . professor d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : i i found that the , eh silence in in many occasions in the in the speech file , but , eh when you have , eh eh , two speakers together without enough silence between between them , eh i think eh is better to use the acoustic change detector basically and i i i ix or , mmm , bic criterion for consider all the frames in my opinion . professor d : mm - hmm . yeah , the you know , the reason that he , uh just used silence was not because he thought it was better , it was it was it was the place he was starting . phd e : yeah . professor d : so , he was trying to get something going , phd e : yeah . professor d : and , uh e e you know , as as as is in your case , if you 're here for only a modest number of months you try to pick a realistic goal , phd e : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . yeah . yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . grad h : do something . professor d : but his his goal was always to proceed from there to then allow broad category change also . phd e : uh - huh . but , eh do do you think that if you consider all the frames to apply the the , eh the bic criterion to detect the the the different acoustic change , eh between speaker , without , uh with , uh silence or with overlapping , uh , i think like like , eh eh a general , eh eh way of process the the acoustic change . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : in a first step , i mean . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : an - and then , eh eh without considering the you you you , um you can consider the energy like a another parameter in the in the feature vector , eh . grad h : right . absolutely . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : this this is the idea . and if , if you do that , eh eh , with a bic uh criterion for example , or with another kind of , eh of distance in a first step , and then you , eh you get the , eh the hypothesis to the this change acoustic , eh to po process grad h : right . phd e : because , eh eh , probably you you can find the the eh a small gap of silence between speaker with eh eh a ga mmm , small duration less than , eh two hundred milliseconds for example professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : and apply another another algorithm , another approach like , eh eh detector of ene , eh detector of bass - tone energy to to consider that , eh that , eh zone . of s a small silence between speaker , or another algorithm to to process , eh the the segment between marks eh founded by the the the bic criterion and applied for for each frame . professor d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : i think is , eh nnn , it will be a an an a more general approach the if we compare with use , eh a neural net or another , eh speech recognizer with a broad class or or narrow class , because , in my opinion eh it 's in my opinion , eh if you if you change the condition of the speech , i mean , if you adjust to your algorithm with a mixed speech file and to , eh to , eh adapt the neural net , eh used by javier with a mixed file . professor d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : uh with a m mixed file , grad h : with the what file ? phd a : `` mixed `` . phd e : with a the mix , mix . postdoc f : `` mixed . `` grad h : `` mixed ? `` professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : sorry . and and then you you , eh you try to to apply that , eh , eh , eh , speech recognizer to that signal , to the pda , eh speech file , i i think you will have problems , because the the the the condition you you will need t t i i suppose that you will need to to to retrain it . professor d : well , i i grad h : oh , absolutely . this is this is not what i was suggesting to do . professor d : u look , i i think this is a one once it 's a i used to work , like , on voiced on voice silence detection , you know , and this is this kind of thing . phd e : really ? yeah . professor d : um if you have somebody who has some experience with this sort of thing , and they work on it for a couple months , they can come up with something that gets most of the cases fairly easily . then you say , `` ok , i do n't just wan na get most of the cases i want it to be really accurate . `` then it gets really hard no matter what you do . so , the p the problem is is that if you say , `` well i i have these other data over here , that i learn things from , either explicit training of neural nets or of gaussian mixture models or whatever . `` phd e : yeah . professor d : uh suppose you do n't use any of those things . you say you have looked for acoustic change . well , what does that mean ? that that means you set some thresholds somewhere or something , phd e : yeah . professor d : right ? and and so where do you get your thresholds from ? phd e : yeah . professor d : from something that you looked at . so you always have this problem , you 're going to new data um h how are you going to adapt whatever you can very quickly learn about the new data ? uh , if it 's gon na be different from old data that you have ? and i think that 's a problem with this . grad h : well , also what i 'm doing right now is not intended to be an acoustic change detector for far - field mikes . what i 'm doing is trying to use the close - talking mike and just use can - and just generate candidate and just try to get a first pass at something that sort of works . phd e : yeah ! phd a : you have candidates . phd g : actually actually actually phd e : the candidate . phd g : i phd a : to make marking easier . yeah . phd g : or grad h : and i have n't spent a lot of time on it and i 'm not intending to spend a lot of time on it . phd g : ok . i um , i , unfortunately , have to run , but , um i can imagine uh building a um model of speaker change detection that takes into account both the far - field and the uh actually , not just the close - talking mike for that speaker , but actually for all of th for all of the speakers . grad h : yep . everyone else . professor d : yeah . phd g : um if you model the the effect that me speaking has on your microphone and everybody else 's microphone , as well as on that , and you build , um basically i think you 'd you would build a an hmm that has as a state space all of the possible speaker combinations grad h : all the yep . phd e : yeah . phd g : and , um you can control grad h : it 's a little big . phd g : it 's not that big actually , um grad h : two to the n . two to the number of people in the meeting . professor d : but actually , andreas may maybe maybe just something simpler but but along the lines of what you 're saying , grad h : anyway . phd e : yeah . professor d : i was just realizing , i used to know this guy who used to build , uh um , mike mixers automatic mike mixers where , you know , t in order to able to turn up the gain , you know , uh as much as you can , you you you lower the gain on on the mikes of people who are n't talking , phd e : yeah { comment } yeah . phd g : mmm . mm - hmm . professor d : right ? and then he had some sort of reasonable way of doing that , phd g : mm - hmm . professor d : but uh , what if you were just looking at very simple measures like energy measures but you do n't just compare it to some threshold overall but you compare it to the energy in the other microphones . grad h : i was thinking about doing that originally to find out who 's the loudest , and that person is certainly talking . professor d : yeah . grad h : but i also wanted to find threshold uh , excuse me , mol overlap . professor d : yeah . grad h : so , not just just the loudest . phd e : but , eh postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd e : i i sorry . i i have found that when when i i analyzed the the speech files from the , eh mike , eh from the eh close eh microphone , eh i found zones with a a different level of energy . phd g : sorry , i have to go . grad h : ok . could you fill that out anyway ? just , put your name in . are y you want me to do it ? i 'll do it . phd a : but he 's not gon na even read that . oh . grad h : i know . phd e : including overlap zone . including . because , eh eh depend on the position of the of the microph of the each speaker to , eh , to get more o or less energy i in the mixed sign in the signal . and then , if you consider energy to to detect overlapping in in , uh , and you process the the in the the the speech file from the the the mixed signals . the mixed signals , eh . i i think it 's it 's difficult , um only to en with energy to to consider that in that zone we have eh , eh , overlapping zone eh , if you process only the the energy of the , of each frame . professor d : well , it 's probably harder , but i i think what i was s nnn noting just when he when andreas raised that , was that there 's other information to be gained from looking at all of the microphones and you may not need to look at very sophisticated things , phd e : yeah . professor d : because if there 's if most of the overlaps you know , this does n't cover , say , three , but if most of the overlaps , say , are two , if the distribution looks like there 's a couple high ones and and the rest of them are low , phd e : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . grad h : and everyone else is low , yeah . professor d : you know , what i mean , phd e : yeah . professor d : there 's some information there about their distribution even with very simple measures . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor d : uh , by the way , i had an idea with while i was watching chuck nodding at a lot of these things , is that we can all wear little bells on our heads , so that then you 'd know that phd e : yeah . grad h : ding , ding , ding , ding . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : `` ding `` . that 's cute ! phd b : i think that 'd be really interesting too , with blindfolds . then grad h : nodding with blindfolds , phd b : yeah . the question is , like whether grad h : `` what are you nodding about ? `` phd b : well , trying with and with and without , yeah . grad h : `` sorry , i 'm just i 'm just going to sleep . `` phd b : but then there 's just one @ @ , like . professor d : yeah . phd a : actually , i saw a uh a woman at the bus stop the other day who , um , was talking on her cell phone speaking japanese , and was bowing . you know , profusely . phd b : oh , yeah , that 's really common . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah { comment } yeah . phd a : just , kept phd e : yeah . phd b : it 's very difficult if you try while you 're trying , say , to convince somebody on the phone it 's difficult not to move your hands . not you know , if you watch people they 'll actually do these things . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : so . i still think we should try a a meeting or two with the blindfolds , at least of this meeting that we have lots of recordings of grad h : mm - hmm . phd b : um , maybe for part of the meeting , we do n't have to do it the whole meeting . professor d : yeah , i think th i think it 's a great idea . phd b : that could be fun . it 'll be too hard to make barriers , i was thinking because they have to go all the way professor d : w yeah . phd b : you know , i can see chuck even if you put a barrier here . grad h : well , we could just turn out the lights . postdoc f : actually well also i i can say i made barr barriers for so that the stuff i was doing with collin wha which just used , um this kind of foam board . phd b : y yeah ? postdoc f : r really inexpensive . you can you can masking tape it together , these are you know , pretty l large partitions . professor d : yeah . phd b : but then we also have these mikes , is the other thing i was thinking , so we need a barrier that does n't disturb the sound , postdoc f : it 's true , it would disturb the , um the the long - range grad h : the acoustics . professor d : blindfolds would be good . postdoc f : it would grad h : i think , blindfolds . phd b : i mean , it sounds weird but but you know it 's it 's cheap and , uh be interesting to have the camera going . professor d : probably we should wait until after adam 's set up the mikes , but . postdoc f : ok . i think we 're going to have to work on the , uh on the human subjects form . phd a : i 'll be peeking . grad h : yeah , that 's right , we did n't tell them we would be blindfolding . professor d : that 's postdoc f : `` do you mind being blindfolded while you 're interviewed ? `` professor d : that 's that 's that 's the one that we videotape . so . um , i i wan na move this along . uh i did have this other agenda item which is , uh @ @ it 's uh a list which i sent to uh a couple folks , but um i wanted to get broader input on it , so this is the things that i think we did in the last three months obviously not everything we did but but sort of highlights that i can can tell s some outside person , you know , what what were you actually working on . um in no particular order uh , one , uh , ten more hours of meeting r meetings recorded , something like that , you know from from , uh three months ago . uh xml formats and other transcription aspects sorted out and uh sent to ibm . um , pilot data put together and sent to ibm for transcription , uh next batch of recorded data put together on the cd - roms for shipment to ibm , grad h : has n't been sent yet , but it 's getting ready . professor d : but yeah , that 's why i phrased it that way , yeah ok . um human subjects approval on campus , uh and release forms worked out so the meeting participants have a chance to request audio pixelization of selected parts of the spee their speech . um audio pixelization software written and tested . um preliminary analysis of overlaps in the pilot data we have transcribed , and exploratory analysis of long - distance inferences for topic coherence , that was i was was n't sure if those were the right way that was the right way to describe that because of that little exercise that that you { comment } and and lokendra did . postdoc f : what was that called ? professor d : i well , i i 'm probably saying this wrong , but what i said was exploratory analysis of long - distance inferences for topic coherence . postdoc f : the , uh say again ? professor d : something like that . um so , uh i a lot of that was from , you know , what what what you two were doing so i i sent it to you , and you know , please mail me , you know , the corrections or suggestions for changing grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : i i do n't want to make this twice it 's length but but you know , just im improve it . um is there anything anybody grad h : i i did a bunch of stuff for supporting of digits . professor d : `` bunch of stuff for s `` ok , maybe maybe send me a sentence that 's a little thought through about that . grad h : so , ok , i 'll send you a sentence that does n't just say `` a bunch of `` ? professor d : `` bunch of stuff `` , yeah , `` stuff `` is probably bad too , grad h : yep . `` stuff `` is not very technical . professor d : yeah , well . grad h : i 'll try to phrase it in passive voice . professor d : yeah . yeah , yeah , phd a : technical stuff . professor d : `` range of things `` , yeah . um and and you know , i sort of threw in what you did with what jane did on in under the , uh uh preliminary analysis of overlaps . uh uh thilo , can you tell us about all the work you 've done on this project in the last , uh last three months ? phd e : yeah . phd c : so what is what um . not really . professor d : that 's phd a : it 's too complicated . phd c : um , i did n't get it . wh - what is `` audio pixelization `` ? professor d : uh , audio pix wh he did it , so why do n't you explain it quickly ? grad h : it 's just , uh beeping out parts that you do n't want included in the meeting so , you know you can say things like , `` well , this should probably not be on the record , but beep `` phd c : ok , ok . i got that . professor d : yeah . we we we spent a a a fair amount of time early on just talk dealing with this issue about op w e e we realized , `` well , people are speaking in an impromptu way and they might say something that would embarrass them or others later `` , and , how do you get around that so in the consent form it says , well you we will look at the transcripts later and if there 's something that you 're unhappy with , yeah . phd c : ok , and you can say ok . professor d : but you do n't want to just totally excise it because um uh , well you have to be careful about excising it , how how you excise it keeping the timing right and so forth so that at the moment tho th the idea we 're running with is is h putting the beep over it . grad h : yeah , you can either beep or it can be silence . i i could n't decide . which was the right way to do it . phd e : ah , yeah . grad h : beep is good auditorily , phd c : yeah . grad h : if someone is listening to it , there 's no mistake that it 's been beeped out , phd c : yeah . grad h : but for software it 's probably better for it to be silence . phd a : no , no . you can you know , you could make a m as long as you keep using the same beep , people could make a model of that beep , and postdoc f : i like that idea . grad h : yep . and i use it 's it 's , uh it 's an a below middle c beep , phd b : i think the beep is a really good idea . phd a : yeah . postdoc f : it 's very clear . then you do n't think it 's a long pause . phd b : also phd a : yeah , it 's more obvious that there was something there than if there 's just silence . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : yeah . professor d : yeah , that i mean , he 's he 's removing the old thing and and and phd a : yea - right . right . but i mean if you just replaced it with silence , it 's not clear whether that 's really silence or grad h : yeah , it 's not phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : yeah , i agree . professor d : yeah . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : one one question . do you do it on all channels ? grad h : of course . postdoc f : interesting . i like that . professor d : yeah . postdoc f : yeah , i like that . grad h : yeah you have to do it on all channels because it 's , uh audible . postdoc f : very clear . very clear . grad h : uh , it 's it 's potentially audible , you could potentially recover it . professor d : ke - keep a back door . postdoc f : well , the other thing that you know , i mean the the alternative might be to s grad h : yeah . well , i i have n't thrown away any of the meetings that i beeped . actually yours is the only one that i beeped and then , uh the ar darpa meeting . phd b : notice how quiet i am . grad h : sorry , and then the darpa meeting i just excised completely , postdoc f : yeah . grad h : so it 's in a private directory . phd b : you have some people who only have beeps as their speech in these meetings . postdoc f : that 's great . yeah . phd a : they 're easy to find , then . professor d : alright , so , uh i think we should , uh uh , go on to the digits ? postdoc f : i have one concept a t i i want to say , which is that i think it 's nice that you 're preserving the time relations , s so you 're you 're not just cutting you 're not doing scissor snips . you 're you 're keeping the , uh the time duration of a de - deleted deleted part . grad h : right . phd b : yeah , definitely . professor d : yeah . postdoc f : ok , good , digits . grad h : yeah , since we wan na possibly synchronize these things as well . oh , i should have done that . postdoc f : it 's great . grad h : shoot . oh well . phd b : so i guess if there 's an overlap , like , if i 'm saying something that 's bleepable and somebody else overlaps during it they also get bleeped , too ? professor d : yeah . oh grad h : you 'll lose it . there 's no way around that . professor d : yeah . um i d i did before we do the digits , i did also wan na remind people , uh please do send me , you know , uh thoughts for an agenda , grad h : agenda ? professor d : yeah that that would be that 'd be good . postdoc f : good . professor d : eh so that , uh , people 's ideas do n't get grad h : thursday crept up on me this week . professor d : yeah , well it does creep up , does n't it ? phd b : and , i wanted to say , i think this is really interesting analysis . postdoc f : thank you . grad h : it 's cool stuff , definitely . phd b : i meant to say that before i started off on the switchboard stuff . postdoc f : thank you . grad h : i was gon na say `` can you do that for the other meetings , phd b : it 's neat . grad h : can you do it for them ? `` phd b : yeah . grad h : and , no actually , you ca n't . phd a : actually actually i i thought that 's what you were giving us was another meeting and i was like , `` oh , ok ! `` phd b : does it take postdoc f : thank you . yeah . grad h : `` ooo , cool ! `` postdoc f : aw , thanks . phd b : how long does it take , just briefly , like t to ok . to label the , postdoc f : no . i have the script now , so , i mean , it can work off the , uh other thing , grad h : it 's as soon as we get labels , yep . phd a : but it has to be hand - labeled first ? postdoc f : but uh , well , yeah . because , uh well , i mean once his his algorithm is up and running then we can do it that way . grad h : if it works well enough . right now it 's not . not quite to the point where it works . postdoc f : but i i just worked off of my phd b : it 's really neat . professor d : ok , go ahead postdoc f : thanks . appreciate that . i think what i what this has , uh , caused me so this discussion caused me to wan na subdivide these further . i 'm gon na take a look at the , uh backchannels , how much we have anal i hope to have that for next time . phd a : that 'd be interesting . grad h : yeah , my my algorithm worked great actually on these , but when you wear it like that or with the uh , lapel or if you have it very far from your face , that 's when it starts failing . phd a : mm - hmm . oh . phd b : well , i can wear it , i mean if you grad h : it does n't matter . i mean , we want it to work , phd a : it 's too late now . grad h : right ? i i do n't want to change the way we do the meeting . phd b : i feel like this troublemaker . grad h : it 's uh so , it was just a comment on the software , not a comment on prescriptions on how you wear microphones . professor d : ok , that 's let 's let 's let 's do digits . grad h : get the bolts , `` whh whh `` postdoc f : let 's do it . ok . phd b : i 'm sorry . grad h : ok , thank you . </s>
<s> what was said about the overlaps ? </s> postdoc f : ok , it 's it 's very eh it 's very brief , i mean just let me just hand these out . oops . grad h : is this the same as the email or different ? phd c : thanks . postdoc f : it 's slightly different . i basically the same . phd a : same idea ? postdoc f : but , same idea . so , if you 've looked at this you 've seen it before , so basically , um as you know , uh part of the encoding includes a mark that indicates an overlap . it 's not indicated with , um uh , tight precision , it 's just indicated that ok , so , it 's indicated to to so the people know what parts of sp which which stretches of speech were in the clear , versus being overlapped by others . so , i used this mark and , um and , uh uh , divided the i wrote a script which divides things into individual minutes , of which we ended up with forty five , and a little bit . and , uh you know , minute zero , of course , is the first minute up to sixty seconds . and , um what you can see is the number of overlaps and then to the right , whether they involve two speakers , three speakers , or more than three speakers . and , um and , what i was looking for sp sp specifically was the question of whether they 're distributed evenly throughout or whether they 're bursts of them . um . and it looked to me as though uh , you know y this is just eh eh , this would this is not statistically verified , but it did look to me as though there are bursts throughout , rather than being localized to a particular region . the part down there , where there 's the maximum number of of , um overlaps is an area where we were discussing whether or not it would be useful to indi to s to code stress , uh , sentence stress as possible indication of , uh information retrieval . so it 's like , you know , rather , lively discussion there . professor d : what was what 's the the parenthesized stuff that says , like e the first one that says six overlaps and then two point eight ? postdoc f : oh , th that 's the per cent . so , six is , uh two point eight percent of the total number of overlaps in the session . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : mm - hmm . postdoc f : at the very end , this is when people were , you know , packing up to go basically , there 's this final stuff , i think we i do n't remember where the digits fell . i 'd have to look at that . but the final three there are no overlaps at all . and couple times there are not . phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc f : so , i it seems like it goes through bursts but , um that 's kind of it . phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc f : now , another question is is there are there individual differences in whether you 're likely to be overlapped with or to overlap with others . and , again i want to emphasize this is just one particular um one particular meeting , and also there 's been no statistical testing of it all , but i , um i took the coding of the i , you know , my i had this script figure out , um who was the first speaker , who was the second speaker involved in a two - person overlap , i did n't look at the ones involving three or more . and , um this is how it breaks down in the individual cells of who tended to be overlapping most often with who who else , and if you look at the marginal totals , which is the ones on the right side and across the bottom , you get the totals for an individual . so , um if you look at the bottom , those are the , um numbers of overlaps in which um adam was involved as the person doing the overlapping and if you look i 'm sorry , but you 're o alphabetical , that 's why i 'm choosing you and then if you look across the right , then that 's where he was the person who was the sp first speaker in the pair and got overlap overlapped with by somebody . phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and , then if you look down in the summary table , then you see that , um th they 're differences in whether a person got overlapped with or overlapped by . grad h : is this uh just raw counts or is it postdoc f : raw counts . grad h : so it would be interesting to see how much each person spoke . phd b : mm - hmm . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah yeah postdoc f : yes , very true very true grad h : normalized to how much postdoc f : it would be good to normalize with respect to that . now on the table i did take one step toward , uh away from the raw frequencies by putting , uh percentages . so that the percentage of time of the of the times that a person spoke , what percentage eh , w so . of the times a person spoke and furthermore was involved in a two two - person overlap , what percentage of the time were they the overlapper and what percent of the time were they th the overlappee ? and there , it looks like you see some differences , um , that some people tend to be overlapped with more often than they 're overlapped , but , of course , uh i e this is just one meeting , uh there 's no statistical testing involved , and that would be required for a for a finding of any kind of scientific reliability . professor d : s so , i it would be statistically incorrect to conclude from this that adam talked too much or something . grad h : no no actually , that would be actually statistically correct , professor d : yeah , yeah . postdoc f : no , no , no . phd e : yeah , yeah . yeah , yeah . postdoc f : yeah , that 's right . professor d : yeah . excuse me . postdoc f : that 's right . and i 'm you know , i 'm i do n't see a point of singling people out , professor d : b i i i rather enjoyed it , but but this postdoc f : now , this is a case where obviously phd a : but the numbers speak for themselves . phd e : he 's yeah , yeah , yeah . postdoc f : well , you know , it 's like i 'm not i 'm not saying on the tape who did better or worse grad h : yes , that 's right , so you do n't nee ok . professor d : sure . postdoc f : because i do n't think that it 's i you know , and and th here 's a case where of course , human subjects people would say be sure that you anonymize the results , and and , so , might as well do this . professor d : yeah . grad h : yeah , when this is what this is actually when jane sent this email first , is what caused me to start thinking about anonymizing the data . postdoc f : well , fair enough . fair enough . professor d : yeah . postdoc f : and actually , you know , the point is not about an individual , it 's the point about tendencies toward you know , different styles , different speaker styles . professor d : oh sure . postdoc f : and it would be , you know of course , there 's also the question of what type of overlap was this , and w what were they , and i and i and i know that i can distinguish at least three types and , probably more , i mean , the general cultural idea which w uh , the conversation analysts originally started with in the seventies was that we have this strict model where politeness involves that you let the person finish th before you start talking , and and you know , i mean , w we know that an and they 've loosened up on that too s in the intervening time , that that that 's that 's viewed as being a culturally - relative thing , i mean , that you have the high - involvement style from the east coast where people will overlap often as an indication of interest in what the other person is saying . and grad h : uh - huh . phd b : exactly ! postdoc f : yeah , exactly ! well , there you go . fine , that 's alright , that 's ok . and and , you know , in contrast , so deborah d and also deborah tannen 's thesis she talked about differences of these types , that they 're just different styles , and it 's um you you ca n't impose a model of there of the ideal being no overlaps , and you know , conversational analysts also agree with that , so it 's now , universally a ag agreed with . and and , als i mean , i ca n't say universally , but anyway , the people who used to say it was strict , um now , uh do n't . i mean they they also you know , uh uh , ack acknowledge the influence of sub of subcultural norms and cross - cultural norms and things . so , um then it beco though so just just superficially to give um a couple ideas of the types of overlaps involved , i have at the bottom several that i noticed . so , uh , there are backchannels , like what adam just did now and , um um , anticipating the end of a question and simply answering it earlier , and there are several of those in this in these data where phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc f : because we 're people who 've talked to each other , um we know basically what the topic is , what the possibilities are and w and we 've spoken with each other so we know basically what the other person 's style is likely to be and so and t there are a number of places where someone just answered early . no problem . and places also which i thought were interesting , where two or more people gave exactly th the same answer in unison different words of course but you know , the basically , you know everyone 's saying `` yes `` or you know , or ev even more sp specific than that . so , uh , the point is that , um overlap 's not necessarily a bad thing and that it would be im i useful to subdivide these further and see if there are individual differences in styles with respect to the types involved . and that 's all i wanted to say on that , unless people have questions . professor d : well , of course th the biggest , um result here , which is one we 've we 've talked about many times and is n't new to us , but which i think would be interesting to show someone who is n't familiar with this is just the sheer number of overlaps . that that right ? that that , um phd e : yes , yes ! postdoc f : oh , ok interesting . phd e : yeah . professor d : here 's a relatively short meeting , it 's a forty forty plus minute meeting , and not only were there two hundred and fifteen overlaps but , uh i think there 's one one minute there where there where where there was n't any overlap ? grad h : hundred ninety - seven . professor d : i mean , it 's uh throughout this thing ? phd a : it 'd be interesting professor d : it 's you have postdoc f : well , at the bottom , you have the bottom three . phd e : yeah . grad h : s n are postdoc f : so four four minutes all together with none none . phd a : but it w professor d : oh , so the bottom three did have s stuff going on ? there was speech ? postdoc f : yes , uh - huh . yeah . but just no overlaps . professor d : ok , so if the this phd a : it 'd be interesting to see what the total amount of time is in the overlaps , versus postdoc f : yes , exactly and that 's that 's where jose 's pro project comes in . phd e : yeah , yeah , i h i have this that infor i have th that information now . phd g : i was about to ask phd a : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor d : oh , about how much is it ? phd e : the the duration of eh of each of the overlaps . professor d : o oh , what 's what 's the what 's the average length ? phd e : m i i have n't averaged it now but , uh i i will , uh i will do the the study of the with the with the program with the uh , the different , uh the , nnn , distribution of the duration of the overlaps . professor d : you do n't know ? ok , you you don you do n't have a feeling for roughly how much it is ? yeah . phd e : mmm , because the the uh , @ @ is @ @ . professor d : yeah . phd e : the duration is , uh the variation the variation of the duration is uh , very big on the dat phd a : mm - hmm . postdoc f : i suspect that it will also differ , depending on the type of overlap involved . phd e : but eh professor d : oh , i 'm sure . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : so backchannels will be very brief phd e : because , on your surface eh a bit of zone of overlapping with the duration eh , overlapped and another very very short . postdoc f : and professor d : yeah . yeah . phd e : uh , i probably it 's very difficult to to because the the overlap is , uh on is only the in the final `` s `` of the of the the fin the the end the end word of the , um previous speaker with the the next word of the the new speaker . phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : um , i considered that 's an overlap but it 's very short , it 's an `` x `` with a and the idea is probably , eh when eh when eh , we studied th th that zone , eh eh , we h we have eh eh confusion with eh eh noise . phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : with eh that fricative sounds , but uh i have new information but i have to to study . professor d : yeah . yeah , but i i 'd u phd g : can i professor d : go ahead . postdoc f : yeah . phd g : you split this by minute , um so if an overlap straddles the boundary between two minutes , that counts towards both of those minutes . postdoc f : yes . mm - hmm . actually , um um actually not . uh , so le let 's think about the case where a starts speaking and then b overlaps with a , and then the minute boundary happens . and let 's say that after that minute boundary , um b is still speaking , and a overlaps with b , that would be a new overlap . but otherwise um , let 's say b comes to the conclusion of of that turn without anyone overlapping with him or her , in which case there would be no overlap counted in that second minute . phd g : no , but suppose they both talk simultaneously both a a portion of it is in minute one and another portion of minute two . postdoc f : ok . in that case , um my c the coding that i was using since we have n't , uh incorporated adam 's , uh coding of overlap yets , the coding of yeah , `` yets `` is not a word . uh since we have n't incorporated adam 's method of handling overl overlaps yet um then that would have fallen through the cra cracks . it would be an underestimate of the number of overlaps because , um i wou i would n't be able to pick it up from the way it was encoded so far . we just have n't done th the precise second to sec you know , second to second coding of when they occur . professor d : i i i 'm i 'm i 'm confused now . so l l let me restate what i thought andreas was saying and and see . postdoc f : uh - huh . professor d : let 's say that in in second fifty - seven of one minute , you start talking and i start talking and we ignore each other and keep on talking for six seconds . postdoc f : yep . ok . mm - hmm . professor d : so we go over so we were we were talking over one another , and it 's just in each case , it 's just sort of one interval . right ? postdoc f : mm - hmm ? professor d : so , um we talked over the minute boundary . is this considered as one overlap in each of the minutes , the way you have done this . postdoc f : no , it would n't . it would be considered as an overlap in the first one . professor d : ok , so that 's good , i i think , in the sense that i think andreas meant the question , phd b : that 's that 's good , yeah , cuz the overall rate is phd g : yeah . grad h : statistical . phd b : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor d : right ? postdoc f : yeah . they 're not double counted . phd g : other - otherwise you 'd get double counts , here and there . phd b : ah but , yeah . phd e : yeah . phd g : and then it would be harder professor d : yeah . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : i should also say i did a simplifying , uh count in that if a was speaking b overlapped with a and then a came back again and overlapped with b again , i i did n't count that as a three - person overlap , i counted that as a two - person overlap , and it was a being overlapped with by d . grad h : mm - hmm . postdoc f : because the idea was the first speaker had the floor and the second person started speaking and then the f the first person reasserted the floor kind of thing . phd b : yeah . postdoc f : these are simplifying assumptions , did n't happen very often , there may be like three overlaps affected that way in the whole thing . grad h : i want to go back and listen to minute forty - one . postdoc f : yeah , yeah . grad h : cuz i i i find it interesting that there were a large number of overlaps and they were all two - speaker . professor d : yeah . grad h : i mean what i thought what i would have thought in is that when there were a large number of overlaps , it was because everyone was talking at once , but uh apparently not . postdoc f : that 's interesting . that 's interesting . phd e : yeah . yeah . mmm . grad h : that 's really neat . professor d : yeah . postdoc f : yeah , there 's a lot of backchannel , a lot o a lot of grad h : this is really interesting data . postdoc f : yeah , it is . phd b : i think what 's really interesting though , it is before d saying `` yes , meetings have a lot of overlaps `` is to actually find out how many more we have than two - party . postdoc f : i think so too , i think phd b : cuz in two - party conversations , like switchboard , there 's an awful lot too if you just look at backchannels , if you consider those overlaps ? it 's also ver it 's huge . it 's just that people have n't been looking at that because they 've been doing single - channel processing for speech recognition . grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : so , the question is , you know , how many more overlaps do you have of , say the two - person type , by adding more people . to a meeting , and it may be a lot more but i it may it may not be . professor d : well , but see , i find it interesting even if it was n't any more , because since we were dealing with this full duplex sort of thing in switchboard where it was just all separated out we just everything was just nice , phd b : mm - hmm ? professor d : so that so the issue is in in a situation where th that 's phd b : well , it 's not really `` nice `` . it depends what you 're doing . so if you were actually having , uh depends what you 're doing , if right now we 're do we have individual mikes on the people in this meeting . so the question is , you know `` are there really more overlaps happening than there would be in a two - person party `` . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : and and there well may be , but professor d : let let m let me rephrase what i 'm saying cuz i do n't think i 'm getting it across . what what i what i should n't use words like `` nice `` because maybe that 's too i too imprecise . but what i mean is that , um in switchboard , despite the many many other problems that we have , one problem that we 're not considering is overlap . and what we 're doing now is , aside from the many other differences in the task , we are considering overlap and one of the reasons that we 're considering it , you know , one of them not all of them , one of them is that w uh at least , you know i 'm very interested in the scenario in which , uh both people talking are pretty much equally audible , and from a single microphone . and so , in that case , it does get mixed in , and it 's pretty hard to jus to just ignore it , to just do processing on one and not on the other . phd b : i i agree that it 's an issue here but it 's also an issue for switchboard and if you think of meetings being recorded over the telephone , which i think , you know , this whole point of studying meetings is n't just to have people in a room but to also have meetings over different phone lines . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : maybe far field mike people would n't be interested in that but all the dialogue issues still apply , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : so if each of us was calling and having a meeting that way you kn you know like a conference call . and , just the question is , y you know , in switchboard you would think that 's the simplest case of a meeting of more than one person , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : and i 'm wondering how much more overlap of the types that that jane described happen with more people present . so it may be that having three people is very different from having two people or it may not be . professor d : that 's an important question to ask . i think what i 'm all i 'm s really saying is that i do n't think we were considering that in switchboard . phd b : not you , me . but uh but but professor d : were you ? grad h : though it was n't in the design . professor d : were you were you were you were you measuring it ? i mean , w w were phd b : there there 's actually to tell you the truth , the reason why it 's hard to measure is because of so , from the point of view of studying dialogue , i mean , which dan jurafsky and andreas and i had some projects on , you want to know the sequence of turns . professor d : yeah . phd b : so what happens is if you 're talking and i have a backchannel in the middle of your turn , and then you keep going what it looks like in a dialogue model is your turn and then my backchannel , professor d : yeah . phd b : even though my backchannel occurred completely inside your turn . professor d : yeah ? phd b : so , for things like language modeling or dialogue modeling it 's we know that that 's wrong in real time . professor d : yeah ? phd b : but , because of the acoustic segmentations that were done and the fact that some of the acoustic data in switchboard were missing , people could n't study it , but that does n't mean in the real world that people do n't talk that way . so , it 's um professor d : yeah , i was n't saying that . right ? i was just saying that w now we 're looking at it . phd b : well , we 've als professor d : and and and , you you maybe wanted to look at it before but , for these various technical reasons in terms of how the data was you were n't . phd b : right . we 're looking at it here . professor d : so that 's why it 's coming to us as new even though it may well be you know , if your if your hypothes the hypothesis you were offering eh right ? if it 's the null poth { comment } hypothesis , and if actually you have as much overlap in a two - person , we do n't know the answer to that . the reason we do n't know the answer to is cuz it was n't studied and it was n't studied because it was n't set up . right ? phd b : yeah , all i meant is that if you 're asking the question from the point of view of what 's different about a meeting , studying meetings of , say , more than two people versus what kinds of questions you could ask with a two - person meeting . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : it 's important to distinguish that , you know , this project is getting a lot of overlap but other projects were too , but we just could n't study them . and and so uh professor d : may have been . may have been . right ? phd b : well , there is a high rate , professor d : we do kn we do n't know the numbers . phd b : so . it 's but i do n't know how high , in fact phd a : well , here i have a question . phd b : that would be interesting to know . professor d : see , i mean , i i le let me t i mean , my point was just if you wanted to say to somebody , `` what have we learned about overlaps here ? `` just never mind comparison with something else , phd b : mm - hmm . professor d : what we 've learned about is overlaps in this situation , is that the first the first - order thing i would say is that there 's a lot of them . right ? phd e : yeah . professor d : in in the sense that i if you said if i i i phd b : yeah , i i do n't di i agree with that . professor d : in a way , i guess what i 'm comparing to is more the common sense notion of how how much people overlap . uh you know the fact that when when when , uh , adam was looking for a stretch of of speech before , that did n't have any overlaps , and he w he was having such a hard time and now i look at this and i go , `` well , i can see why he was having such a hard time `` . phd b : right . that 's also true of switchboard . professor d : it 's happening a lot . phd b : it may not be professor d : i was n't saying it was n't . phd b : right . so it 's just , um professor d : right ? i was commenting about this . phd b : ok . all i 'm saying is that from the professor d : i 'm saying if i i 'm saying if i have this complicated thing in front of me , and we sh which , you know we 're gon na get much more sophisticated about when we get lots more data , but then , if i was gon na describe to somebody what did you learn right here , about , you know , the the modest amount of data that was analyzed i 'd say , `` well , the first - order thing was there was a lot of overlaps `` . in fact and it 's not just an overlap bunch of overlaps second - order thing is it 's not just a bunch of overlaps in one particular point , but that there 's overlaps , uh throughout the thing . grad h : right . phd b : right . no , i i agree with that . professor d : and that 's interesting . that 's all . phd b : i 'm just saying that it may the reason you get overlaps may or may not be due to sort of the number of people in the meeting . professor d : oh yeah . phd b : and that 's all . professor d : yeah . yeah , i was n't making any statement about that . phd b : and and it would actually be interesting to find out professor d : yeah . </s>
<s> what was said about switchboard ? </s> phd b : cuz in two - party conversations , like switchboard , there 's an awful lot too if you just look at backchannels , if you consider those overlaps ? it 's also ver it 's huge . it 's just that people have n't been looking at that because they 've been doing single - channel processing for speech recognition . grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : so , the question is , you know , how many more overlaps do you have of , say the two - person type , by adding more people . to a meeting , and it may be a lot more but i it may it may not be . professor d : well , but see , i find it interesting even if it was n't any more , because since we were dealing with this full duplex sort of thing in switchboard where it was just all separated out we just everything was just nice , phd b : mm - hmm ? professor d : so that so the issue is in in a situation where th that 's phd b : well , it 's not really `` nice `` . it depends what you 're doing . so if you were actually having , uh depends what you 're doing , if right now we 're do we have individual mikes on the people in this meeting . so the question is , you know `` are there really more overlaps happening than there would be in a two - person party `` . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : and and there well may be , but professor d : let let m let me rephrase what i 'm saying cuz i do n't think i 'm getting it across . what what i what i should n't use words like `` nice `` because maybe that 's too i too imprecise . but what i mean is that , um in switchboard , despite the many many other problems that we have , one problem that we 're not considering is overlap . and what we 're doing now is , aside from the many other differences in the task , we are considering overlap and one of the reasons that we 're considering it , you know , one of them not all of them , one of them is that w uh at least , you know i 'm very interested in the scenario in which , uh both people talking are pretty much equally audible , and from a single microphone . and so , in that case , it does get mixed in , and it 's pretty hard to jus to just ignore it , to just do processing on one and not on the other . phd b : i i agree that it 's an issue here but it 's also an issue for switchboard and if you think of meetings being recorded over the telephone , which i think , you know , this whole point of studying meetings is n't just to have people in a room but to also have meetings over different phone lines . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : maybe far field mike people would n't be interested in that but all the dialogue issues still apply , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : so if each of us was calling and having a meeting that way you kn you know like a conference call . and , just the question is , y you know , in switchboard you would think that 's the simplest case of a meeting of more than one person , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : and i 'm wondering how much more overlap of the types that that jane described happen with more people present . so it may be that having three people is very different from having two people or it may not be . professor d : that 's an important question to ask . i think what i 'm all i 'm s really saying is that i do n't think we were considering that in switchboard . phd b : not you , me . but uh but but professor d : were you ? grad h : though it was n't in the design . professor d : were you were you were you were you measuring it ? i mean , w w were phd b : there there 's actually to tell you the truth , the reason why it 's hard to measure is because of so , from the point of view of studying dialogue , i mean , which dan jurafsky and andreas and i had some projects on , you want to know the sequence of turns . professor d : yeah . phd b : so what happens is if you 're talking and i have a backchannel in the middle of your turn , and then you keep going what it looks like in a dialogue model is your turn and then my backchannel , professor d : yeah . phd b : even though my backchannel occurred completely inside your turn . professor d : yeah ? phd b : so , for things like language modeling or dialogue modeling it 's we know that that 's wrong in real time . professor d : yeah ? phd b : but , because of the acoustic segmentations that were done and the fact that some of the acoustic data in switchboard were missing , people could n't study it , but that does n't mean in the real world that people do n't talk that way . so , it 's um professor d : yeah , i was n't saying that . right ? i was just saying that w now we 're looking at it . phd b : well , we 've als professor d : and and and , you you maybe wanted to look at it before but , for these various technical reasons in terms of how the data was you were n't . phd b : right . we 're looking at it here . professor d : so that 's why it 's coming to us as new even though it may well be you know , if your if your hypothes the hypothesis you were offering eh right ? if it 's the null poth { comment } hypothesis , and if actually you have as much overlap in a two - person , we do n't know the answer to that . the reason we do n't know the answer to is cuz it was n't studied and it was n't studied because it was n't set up . right ? phd b : yeah , all i meant is that if you 're asking the question from the point of view of what 's different about a meeting , studying meetings of , say , more than two people versus what kinds of questions you could ask with a two - person meeting . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : it 's important to distinguish that , you know , this project is getting a lot of overlap but other projects were too , but we just could n't study them . and and so uh professor d : may have been . may have been . right ? phd b : well , there is a high rate , professor d : we do kn we do n't know the numbers . phd b : so . it 's but i do n't know how high , in fact phd a : well , here i have a question . phd b : that would be interesting to know . professor d : see , i mean , i i le let me t i mean , my point was just if you wanted to say to somebody , `` what have we learned about overlaps here ? `` just never mind comparison with something else , phd b : mm - hmm . professor d : what we 've learned about is overlaps in this situation , is that the first the first - order thing i would say is that there 's a lot of them . right ? phd e : yeah . professor d : in in the sense that i if you said if i i i phd b : yeah , i i do n't di i agree with that . professor d : in a way , i guess what i 'm comparing to is more the common sense notion of how how much people overlap . uh you know the fact that when when when , uh , adam was looking for a stretch of of speech before , that did n't have any overlaps , and he w he was having such a hard time and now i look at this and i go , `` well , i can see why he was having such a hard time `` . phd b : right . that 's also true of switchboard . professor d : it 's happening a lot . phd b : it may not be professor d : i was n't saying it was n't . phd b : right . so it 's just , um professor d : right ? i was commenting about this . phd b : ok . all i 'm saying is that from the professor d : i 'm saying if i i 'm saying if i have this complicated thing in front of me , and we sh which , you know we 're gon na get much more sophisticated about when we get lots more data , but then , if i was gon na describe to somebody what did you learn right here , about , you know , the the modest amount of data that was analyzed i 'd say , `` well , the first - order thing was there was a lot of overlaps `` . in fact and it 's not just an overlap bunch of overlaps second - order thing is it 's not just a bunch of overlaps in one particular point , but that there 's overlaps , uh throughout the thing . grad h : right . phd b : right . no , i i agree with that . professor d : and that 's interesting . that 's all . phd b : i 'm just saying that it may the reason you get overlaps may or may not be due to sort of the number of people in the meeting . professor d : oh yeah . phd b : and that 's all . professor d : yeah . yeah , i was n't making any statement about that . phd b : and and it would actually be interesting to find out professor d : yeah . phd b : because some of the data say switchboard , which is n't exactly the same kind of context , i mean these are two people who do n't know each other and so forth , but we should still be able to somehow say what what is the added contra contribution to sort of overlap time of each additional person , or something like that . professor d : yeah , that would be good to know , phd a : what professor d : but w we postdoc f : ok , now . grad h : i could certainly see it going either way . postdoc f : wh - yeah , i i agree i agree with adam . phd b : but yeah . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : and the reason is because i think there 's a limit there 's an upper bound on how many you can have , simply from the standpoint of audibility . when we speak we we do make a judgment of `` can `` you know , as adults . phd b : right . professor d : mm - hmm . postdoc f : i mean , children do n't adjust so well , i mean , if a truck goes rolling past , adults will well , depending , but mostly , adults will will will hold off to what to finish the end of the sentence till the till the noise is past . professor d : mm - hmm . postdoc f : and i think we generally do monitor things like that , about whether we whether our utterance will be in the clear or not . phd b : right . postdoc f : and partly it 's related to rhythmic structure in conversation , so , you know , you you t yeah , this is d also um , people tend to time their their their , um when they come into the conversation based on the overall rhythmic , uh uh , ambient thing . phd a : well phd b : right . postdoc f : so you do n't want to be c cross - cutting . and and , just to finish this , that um that i think that there may be an upper bound on how many overlaps you can have , simply from the standpoint of audibility and how loud the other people are who are already in the fray . but i you know , of certain types . now if it 's just backchannels , people may be doing that with less intention of being heard , just sort of spontaneously doing backchannels , in which case that those might there may be no upper bound on those . phd g : i i have a feeling that backchannels , which are the vast majority of overlaps in switchboard , uh , do n't play as big a role here , because it 's very unnatural i think , to backchannel if in a multi - audience you know , in a multi - person audience . phd b : if you can see them , actually . it 's interesting , so if you watch people are going like { comment } { comment } right right , like this here , phd g : right . phd e : yeah . phd b : but that may not be the case if you could n't see them . phd g : but but , it 's sort of odd if one person 's speaking and everybody 's listening , and it 's unusual to have everybody going `` uh - huh , uh - huh `` professor d : actually , i think i 've done it a fair number of times today . phd b : yeah . there 's a lot of head - nodding , in this phd g : yeah . grad h : yep , we need to put trackers on it . phd a : in in the two - person phd e : yeah , yeah , yeah . postdoc f : he could , he could . phd g : plus plus plus the yeah . so so actually , um that 's in part because the nodding , if you have visual contact , the nodding has the same function , but on the phone , in switchboard you you that would n't work . so so you need to use the backchannel . grad h : yeah , you do n't have it . your mike is phd a : so , in the two - person conversations , when there 's backchannel , is there a great deal of overlap in the speech ? grad h : that is an earphone , so if you just put it so it 's on your ear . phd a : or cuz my impression is sometimes it happens when there 's a pause , grad h : there you go . phd b : yeah . postdoc f : e for example . grad h : thank you . phd a : you know , like you you get a lot of backchannel , when somebody 's pausing phd b : yes . right . postdoc f : she 's doing that . phd b : sorry , what were you saying ? phd a : it 's hard to do both , huh ? um no , when when when there 's backchannel , i mean , just i was just listening , and and when there 's two people talking and there 's backchannel it seems like , um the backchannel happens when , you know , the pitch drops and the first person and a lot of times , the first person actually stops talking and then there 's a backchannel and then they start up again , and so i 'm wondering about h i just wonder how much overlap there is . is there a lot ? phd b : i think there 's a lot of the kind that jose was talking about , where i mean , this is called `` precision timing `` in conversation analysis , where they come in overlapping , but at a point where the information is mostly complete . so all you 're missing is some last syllables or something or the last word or some highly predictable words . phd a : mmm . mm - hmm . phd b : so technically , it 's an overlap . phd a : but maybe a just a small overlap ? phd b : but you know , from information flow point of view it 's not an overlap in the predictable information . phd e : more , yeah . grad h : it 'd be interesting if we could do prediction . phd a : i was just thinking more in terms of alignment , alignment overlap . phd b : yeah . grad h : language model prediction of overlap , that would be really interesting . phd g : so so phd b : well , that 's exactly , exactly why we wanted to study the precise timing of overlaps ins in uh switchboard , professor d : yeah . phd g : right . grad h : right . phd b : say , because there 's a lot of that . phd g : so so here 's a here 's a first interesting labeling task . uh , to distinguish between , say , backchannels precision timing sort of you know , benevolent overlaps , and and and w and and sort of , um i do n't know , hostile overlaps , where someone is trying to grab the floor from someone else . grad h : mm - hmm . let 's pick a different word . phd e : yeah . phd g : uh , that that might be an interesting , um problem to look at . phd a : hostile takeovers . phd e : yeah . professor d : yeah . phd e : yeah . yeah . postdoc f : well , i mean you could do that . i ju i i think that in this meeting i really had the feeling that was n't happening , that the hostile hostile type . these were these were benevolent types , as people finishing each other 's sentences , and stuff . phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : um , i could imagine that as there 's a fair number of um cases where , and this is sort of , not really hostile , but sort of competitive , where one person is finishing something and you have , like , two or three people jumping trying to trying to trying to , uh grab the next turn . grad h : trying to get the floor . professor d : yeah . phd g : and so it 's not against the person who talks first because actually we 're all waiting for that person to finish . but they all want to be next . professor d : i have a feeling most of these things are that that are not a benevolent kind are are are , uh um are are competitive as opposed to real really really hostile . phd g : right . phd a : i wonder what determines who gets the floor ? postdoc f : yeah , i agree . i agree . phd a : i mean postdoc f : well , there are various things , you you have the professor d : uh a vote vote in florida . grad h : it 's been studied a lot . professor d : yeah . phd e : voting for professor d : um , o one thing i i wanted to or you can tell a good joke and then everybody 's laughing and you get a chance to g break in . phd g : seniority . professor d : but . but . um . you know , the other thing i was thinking was that , um these all these interesting questions are , of course , pretty hard to answer with , uh u you know , a small amount of data . so , um i wonder if what you 're saying suggests that we should make a conscious attempt to have , um a a fair number of meetings with , uh a smaller number of people . right ? i mean we most of our meetings are uh , meetings currently with say five , six , seven , eight people should we really try to have some two - person meetings , or some three - person meetings and re record them just to to to beef up the the statistics on that ? postdoc f : that 's a control . well , it seems like there are two possibilities there , i mean i it seems like if you have just two people it 's not really , y like a meeting , w is not as similar as the rest of the of the sample . it depends on what you 're after , of course , but it seems like that would be more a case of the control condition , compared to , uh an experimental condition , with more than two . grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : well , liz was raising the question of of whether i it 's the number there 's a relationship between the number of people and the number of overlaps or type of overlaps there , postdoc f : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> summarize what was said on control and further modifications </s> professor d : um , o one thing i i wanted to or you can tell a good joke and then everybody 's laughing and you get a chance to g break in . phd g : seniority . professor d : but . but . um . you know , the other thing i was thinking was that , um these all these interesting questions are , of course , pretty hard to answer with , uh u you know , a small amount of data . so , um i wonder if what you 're saying suggests that we should make a conscious attempt to have , um a a fair number of meetings with , uh a smaller number of people . right ? i mean we most of our meetings are uh , meetings currently with say five , six , seven , eight people should we really try to have some two - person meetings , or some three - person meetings and re record them just to to to beef up the the statistics on that ? postdoc f : that 's a control . well , it seems like there are two possibilities there , i mean i it seems like if you have just two people it 's not really , y like a meeting , w is not as similar as the rest of the of the sample . it depends on what you 're after , of course , but it seems like that would be more a case of the control condition , compared to , uh an experimental condition , with more than two . grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : well , liz was raising the question of of whether i it 's the number there 's a relationship between the number of people and the number of overlaps or type of overlaps there , postdoc f : mm - hmm . professor d : and , um if you had two people meeting in this kind of circumstance then you 'd still have the visuals . you would n't have that difference also that you have in the say , in switchboard data . uh postdoc f : mm - hmm . yeah , i 'm just thinking that 'd be more like a c control condition . professor d : yeah . postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . grad h : well , but from the acoustic point of view , it 's all good . phd e : is the same . professor d : yeah , acoustic is fine , but phd g : if if the goal were to just look at overlap you would you could serve yourself save yourself a lot of time but not even transcri transcribe the words . phd b : well , i was thinking you should be able to do this from the acoustics , on the close - talking mikes , professor d : yeah . grad h : well , that 's the that was my my status report , phd b : right ? postdoc f : you 've been working on that . phd b : right , i mean adam was phd e : yeah . postdoc f : yeah . grad h : so once we 're done with this stuff discussing , phd b : right . i mean , not as well as what i mean , you would n't be able to have any kind of typology , obviously , professor d : yeah . phd b : but you 'd get some rough statistics . grad h : mm - hmm . professor d : but what what do you think about that ? do you think that would be useful ? i 'm just thinking that as an action item of whether we should try to record some two - person meetings or something . phd b : i guess my my first comment was , um only that um we should n not attribute overlaps only to meetings , but maybe that 's obvious , maybe everybody knew that , professor d : yeah . phd b : but that in normal conversation with two people there 's an awful lot of the same kinds of overlap , and that it would be interesting to look at whether there are these kinds of constraints that jane mentioned , that what maybe the additional people add to this competition that happens right after a turn , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : you know , because now you can have five people trying to grab the turn , but pretty quickly there 're they back off and you go back to this sort of only one person at a time with one person interrupting at a time . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : so , i do n't know . to answer your question i it i do n't think it 's crucial to have controls but i think it 's worth recording all the meetings we can . so , um you know . professor d : well , ok . phd e : yeah . phd g : i i have an idea . phd b : d i would n't not record a two - person meeting just because it only has two people . grad h : right . phd g : could we could we , um we have have in the past and i think continue will continue to have a fair number of uh phone conference calls . professor d : uh - huh . phd g : and , uh , and as a to , um as another c c comparison condition , we could um see what what what happens in terms of overlap , when you do n't have visual contact . grad h : yeah , we talked about this repeatedly . phd g : so , um phd b : can we actually record ? grad h : it just seems like that 's a very different thing than what we 're doing . professor d : uh well , we 'll have to set up for it . phd b : i mean physically can we record the o the other professor d : yeah . well , we 're not really set up for it to do that . but . phd g : or , this is getting a little extravagant , we could put up some kind of blinds or something to to remove , uh visual contact . professor d : yeah . phd c : yeah . grad h : barriers ! phd b : that 's what they did on map task , you know , this map task corpus ? they ran exactly the same pairs of people with and without visual cues and it 's quite interesting . professor d : well , we we record this meeting so regularly it would n't be that i mean a little strange . grad h : ok , we can record , but no one can look at each other . phd b : well , we could just put b blindfolds on . phd c : yeah . phd g : well y no you f grad h : close your eyes . postdoc f : blindf phd g : yeah , yeah . grad h : turn off the lights . phd b : and we 'd take a picture of everybody sitting here with blindfolds . that would professor d : oh , th that was the other thing , were n't we gon na take a picture at the beginning of each of these meetings ? grad h : um , what i had thought we were gon na do is just take pictures of the whiteboards . rather than take pictures of the meeting . postdoc f : well , linguistic grad h : and , uh postdoc f : yeah . linguistic anthropologists would would suggest it would be useful to also take a picture of the meeting . professor d : there 's a head nodding here vigorously , yeah . phd a : why why do we want to have a picture of the meeting ? phd b : ee - you mean , transc no postdoc f : the because you get then the spatial relationship of the speakers . phd e : yeah yeah . postdoc f : and that could be phd g : well , you could do that by just noting on the enrollment sheet the the seat number . phd e : yeah . grad h : seat number , that 's a good idea . i 'll do that . phd e : yeah . grad h : i 'll do that on the next set of forms . phd e : yeah . phd g : so you 'd number them somehow . phd e : is possible to get information from the rhythmic f from the ge , eh uh , files . grad h : i finally remembered to put , uh put native language on the newer forms . phd a : we can ca n't you figure it out from the mike number ? grad h : the wireless ones . and even the jacks , i mean , i 'm sitting here and the jack is over in front of you . phd b : but probably from these you could 've { comment } infer it . phd g : yeah , but it 's it would be trivial grad h : it would be another task . phd b : it would be a research task . grad h : having having ground tu truth would be nice , so seat number would be good . phd a : you know where you could get it ? phd b : yeah , yeah . phd a : beam - forming during the digit uh stuff . phd e : yeah . grad h : so i 'm gon na put little labels on all the chairs with the seat number . phd c : mm - hmm . grad h : that 's a good idea . phd b : but you have to keep the chairs in the same pla like here . phd g : not the chairs . the chairs are chairs are movable . grad h : but , uh phd g : put them like , put them on the table where they phd e : the chair { comment } yeah . phd c : yeah . postdoc f : but you know , they the s the linguistic anthropologists would say it would be good to have a digital picture anyway , phd a : just remembered a joke . postdoc f : because you get a sense also of posture . posture , and we could like , you know , block out the person 's face or whatever phd g : what people were wearing . grad h : yeah . phd b : the fashion statement . postdoc f : but but , you know , these are important cues , phd g : oh , andreas was phd a : how big their heads are . postdoc f : i mean the the how a person is sitting is professor d : but if you just f but from one picture , i do n't know that you really get that . phd g : yeah . andreas was wearing that same old sweater again . professor d : right ? you 'd want a video for that , i think . postdoc f : it 'd be better than nothing , is is i just from a single picture i think you can tell some aspects . phd e : a video , yeah . professor d : think so ? postdoc f : i mean i i could tell you i mean , if i if i 'm in certain meetings i notice that there are certain people who really do eh the body language is very uh is very interesting in terms of the dominance aspect . phd g : and and yeah . and and morgan had that funny hair again . postdoc f : yeah . { comment } well , i mean you black out the that part . but it 's just , you know , the the body phd a : he agreed . postdoc f : you know ? grad h : of course , the where we sit at the table , i find is very interesting , that we do tend to cong to gravitate to the same place each time . postdoc f : yeah . grad h : and it 's somewhat coincidental . i 'm sitting here so that i can run into the room if the hardware starts , you know , catching fire or something . phd g : oh , no , you you just like to be in charge , that 's why you 're sitting grad h : i just want to be at the head of the table . phd g : yeah . grad h : take control . professor d : speaking of taking control , you said you had some research to talk about . </s>
<s> what did the team say on experiments ? </s> grad h : yeah , i 've been playing with , um uh , using the close - talking mike to do to try to figure out who 's speaking . so my first attempt was just using thresholding and filtering , that we talked about about two weeks ago , and so i played with that a little bit , and it works o k , except that it 's very sensitive to your choice of your filter width and your threshold . so if you fiddle around with it a little bit and you get good numbers you can actually do a pretty good job of segmenting when someone 's talking and when they 're not . but if you try to use the same paramenters on another speaker , it does n't work anymore , even if you normalize it based on the absolute loudness . phd b : but does it work for that one speaker throughout the whole meeting ? grad h : it does work for the one speaker throughout the whole meeting . um pretty well . phd a : how did you do it adam ? grad h : pretty well . how did i do it ? phd a : yeah . grad h : what do you mean ? phd a : i mean , wh what was the grad h : the algorithm was , uh take o every frame that 's over the threshold , and then median - filter it , and then look for runs . phd a : yeah . mm - hmm . grad h : so there was a minimum run length , phd a : every frame that 's over what threshold ? grad h : so that a threshold that you pick . phd a : in terms of energy ? ah ! grad h : yeah . postdoc f : say that again ? frame over fres threshold . grad h : so you take a each frame , and you compute the energy and if it 's over the threshold you set it to one , and if it 's under the threshold you set it to zero , so now you have a bit stream of zeros and ones . postdoc f : hmm . ok . grad h : and then i median - filtered that using , um a fairly long filter length . uh well , actually i guess depends on what you mean by long , you know , tenth of a second sorts of numbers . um and that 's to average out you know , pitch , you know , the pitch contours , and things like that . and then , uh looked for long runs . and that works o k , if you fil if you tune the filter parameters , if you tune how long your median filter is and how high you 're looking for your thresholds . phd a : did you ever try running the filter before you pick a threshold ? grad h : no . i certainly could though . but this was just i had the program mostly written already so it was easy to do . ok and then the other thing i did , was i took javier 's speaker - change detector acoustic - change detector , and i implemented that with the close - talking mikes , and unfortunately that 's not working real well , and it looks like it 's the problem is he does it in two passes , the first pass is to find candidate places to do a break . and he does that using a neural net doing broad phone classification and he has the the , uh one of the phone classes is silence . and so the possible breaks are where silence starts and ends . and then he has a second pass which is a modeling a gaussian mixture model . um looking for uh whether it improves or or degrades to split at one of those particular places . and what looks like it 's happening is that the even on the close - talking mike the broad phone class classifier 's doing a really bad job . phd a : who was it trained on ? grad h : uh , i have no idea . i do n't remember . does an do you remember , morgan , was it broadcast news ? professor d : i think so , yeah . grad h : um so , at any rate , my next attempt , which i 'm in the midst of and have n't quite finished yet was actually using the uh , thresholding as the way of generating the candidates . because one of the things that definitely happens is if you put the threshold low you get lots of breaks . all of which are definitely acoustic events . they 're definitely someone talking . but , like , it could be someone who is n't the person here , but the person over there or it can be the person breathing . and then feeding that into the acoustic change detector . and so i think that might work . but , i have n't gotten very far on that . but all of this is close - talking mike , so it 's , uh just just trying to get some ground truth . phd e : only with eh uh , but eh i i i think , eh when when , y i i saw the the the the speech from pda and , eh close talker . i i think the there is a a great difference in the in the signal . grad h : oh , absolutely . phd e : um but eh i but eh i i i mean that eh eh in the in the mixed file you can find , uh zone with , eh great different , eh level of energy . grad h : so s my intention for this is is as an aide for ground truth . not phd e : um i i think for , eh algorithm based on energy , eh , that um h mmm , more or less , eh , like eh eh , mmm , first sound energy detector . grad h : say it again ? phd e : eh nnn . when y you the detect the the the first at at the end of of the detector of , ehm princ um . what is the the name in english ? the the , mmm , the de detector of , ehm of a word in the in the s in an isolated word in in the background that , uh grad h : i 'm i 'm not sure what you 're saying , can you try phd e : i mean that when when you use , eh eh any phd a : i think he 's saying the onset detector . phd e : yeah . grad h : onset detector , ok . phd e : i i think it 's probably to work well eh , because , eh you have eh , in the mixed files a great level of energy . eh and great difference between the sp speaker . and probably is not so easy when you use the the pda , eh that because the signal is , eh the in the e energy level . grad h : right . phd e : in in that , eh eh speech file is , eh more similar . between the different eh , speaker , um i i think is eh , it will i is my opinion . grad h : right . but different speakers . phd e : it will be , eh more difficult to to detect bass - tone energy . the the change . i think that , um grad h : ah , in the clo in the p d a , you mean ? phd e : in the pda . grad h : absolutely . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad h : yeah , no question . it 'll be much harder . professor d : yeah . grad h : much harder . phd e : and the the another question , that when i review the the the work of javier . i think the , nnn , the , nnn , that the idea of using a neural network to to get a broad class of phonetic , eh from , eh uh a candidate from the the the speech signal . if you have , eh uh , i 'm considering , only because javier , eh only consider , eh like candidate , the , nnn , eh the silence , because it is the the only model , eh eh , he used that , eh eh nnn , to detect the the possibility of a a change between the between the speaker , grad h : right . phd e : um another another research thing , different groups , eh working , eh on broadcast news prefer to , eh to consider hypothesis eh between each phoneme . grad h : mm - hmm . yeah , when a phone changes . phd e : because , i i i think it 's more realistic that , uh only consider the the the the silence between the speaker . eh there there exists eh silence between between , eh a speaker . is is , eh eh acoustic , eh event , important to to consider . professor d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : i i found that the , eh silence in in many occasions in the in the speech file , but , eh when you have , eh eh , two speakers together without enough silence between between them , eh i think eh is better to use the acoustic change detector basically and i i i ix or , mmm , bic criterion for consider all the frames in my opinion . professor d : mm - hmm . yeah , the you know , the reason that he , uh just used silence was not because he thought it was better , it was it was it was the place he was starting . phd e : yeah . professor d : so , he was trying to get something going , phd e : yeah . professor d : and , uh e e you know , as as as is in your case , if you 're here for only a modest number of months you try to pick a realistic goal , phd e : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . yeah . yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . grad h : do something . professor d : but his his goal was always to proceed from there to then allow broad category change also . phd e : uh - huh . but , eh do do you think that if you consider all the frames to apply the the , eh the bic criterion to detect the the the different acoustic change , eh between speaker , without , uh with , uh silence or with overlapping , uh , i think like like , eh eh a general , eh eh way of process the the acoustic change . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : in a first step , i mean . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : an - and then , eh eh without considering the you you you , um you can consider the energy like a another parameter in the in the feature vector , eh . grad h : right . absolutely . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : this this is the idea . and if , if you do that , eh eh , with a bic uh criterion for example , or with another kind of , eh of distance in a first step , and then you , eh you get the , eh the hypothesis to the this change acoustic , eh to po process grad h : right . phd e : because , eh eh , probably you you can find the the eh a small gap of silence between speaker with eh eh a ga mmm , small duration less than , eh two hundred milliseconds for example professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : and apply another another algorithm , another approach like , eh eh detector of ene , eh detector of bass - tone energy to to consider that , eh that , eh zone . of s a small silence between speaker , or another algorithm to to process , eh the the segment between marks eh founded by the the the bic criterion and applied for for each frame . professor d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : i think is , eh nnn , it will be a an an a more general approach the if we compare with use , eh a neural net or another , eh speech recognizer with a broad class or or narrow class , because , in my opinion eh it 's in my opinion , eh if you if you change the condition of the speech , i mean , if you adjust to your algorithm with a mixed speech file and to , eh to , eh adapt the neural net , eh used by javier with a mixed file . professor d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : uh with a m mixed file , grad h : with the what file ? phd a : `` mixed `` . phd e : with a the mix , mix . postdoc f : `` mixed . `` grad h : `` mixed ? `` professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : sorry . and and then you you , eh you try to to apply that , eh , eh , eh , speech recognizer to that signal , to the pda , eh speech file , i i think you will have problems , because the the the the condition you you will need t t i i suppose that you will need to to to retrain it . professor d : well , i i grad h : oh , absolutely . this is this is not what i was suggesting to do . professor d : u look , i i think this is a one once it 's a i used to work , like , on voiced on voice silence detection , you know , and this is this kind of thing . phd e : really ? yeah . professor d : um if you have somebody who has some experience with this sort of thing , and they work on it for a couple months , they can come up with something that gets most of the cases fairly easily . then you say , `` ok , i do n't just wan na get most of the cases i want it to be really accurate . `` then it gets really hard no matter what you do . so , the p the problem is is that if you say , `` well i i have these other data over here , that i learn things from , either explicit training of neural nets or of gaussian mixture models or whatever . `` phd e : yeah . professor d : uh suppose you do n't use any of those things . you say you have looked for acoustic change . well , what does that mean ? that that means you set some thresholds somewhere or something , phd e : yeah . professor d : right ? and and so where do you get your thresholds from ? phd e : yeah . professor d : from something that you looked at . so you always have this problem , you 're going to new data um h how are you going to adapt whatever you can very quickly learn about the new data ? uh , if it 's gon na be different from old data that you have ? and i think that 's a problem with this . grad h : well , also what i 'm doing right now is not intended to be an acoustic change detector for far - field mikes . what i 'm doing is trying to use the close - talking mike and just use can - and just generate candidate and just try to get a first pass at something that sort of works . phd e : yeah ! phd a : you have candidates . phd g : actually actually actually phd e : the candidate . phd g : i phd a : to make marking easier . yeah . phd g : or grad h : and i have n't spent a lot of time on it and i 'm not intending to spend a lot of time on it . phd g : ok . i um , i , unfortunately , have to run , but , um i can imagine uh building a um model of speaker change detection that takes into account both the far - field and the uh actually , not just the close - talking mike for that speaker , but actually for all of th for all of the speakers . grad h : yep . everyone else . professor d : yeah . phd g : um if you model the the effect that me speaking has on your microphone and everybody else 's microphone , as well as on that , and you build , um basically i think you 'd you would build a an hmm that has as a state space all of the possible speaker combinations grad h : all the yep . phd e : yeah . phd g : and , um you can control grad h : it 's a little big . phd g : it 's not that big actually , um grad h : two to the n . two to the number of people in the meeting . professor d : but actually , andreas may maybe maybe just something simpler but but along the lines of what you 're saying , grad h : anyway . phd e : yeah . professor d : i was just realizing , i used to know this guy who used to build , uh um , mike mixers automatic mike mixers where , you know , t in order to able to turn up the gain , you know , uh as much as you can , you you you lower the gain on on the mikes of people who are n't talking , phd e : yeah { comment } yeah . phd g : mmm . mm - hmm . professor d : right ? and then he had some sort of reasonable way of doing that , phd g : mm - hmm . professor d : but uh , what if you were just looking at very simple measures like energy measures but you do n't just compare it to some threshold overall but you compare it to the energy in the other microphones . grad h : i was thinking about doing that originally to find out who 's the loudest , and that person is certainly talking . professor d : yeah . grad h : but i also wanted to find threshold uh , excuse me , mol overlap . professor d : yeah . grad h : so , not just just the loudest . phd e : but , eh postdoc f : mm - hmm . phd e : i i sorry . i i have found that when when i i analyzed the the speech files from the , eh mike , eh from the eh close eh microphone , eh i found zones with a a different level of energy . phd g : sorry , i have to go . grad h : ok . could you fill that out anyway ? just , put your name in . are y you want me to do it ? i 'll do it . phd a : but he 's not gon na even read that . oh . grad h : i know . phd e : including overlap zone . including . because , eh eh depend on the position of the of the microph of the each speaker to , eh , to get more o or less energy i in the mixed sign in the signal . and then , if you consider energy to to detect overlapping in in , uh , and you process the the in the the the speech file from the the the mixed signals . the mixed signals , eh . i i think it 's it 's difficult , um only to en with energy to to consider that in that zone we have eh , eh , overlapping zone eh , if you process only the the energy of the , of each frame . professor d : well , it 's probably harder , but i i think what i was s nnn noting just when he when andreas raised that , was that there 's other information to be gained from looking at all of the microphones and you may not need to look at very sophisticated things , phd e : yeah . professor d : because if there 's if most of the overlaps you know , this does n't cover , say , three , but if most of the overlaps , say , are two , if the distribution looks like there 's a couple high ones and and the rest of them are low , phd e : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . grad h : and everyone else is low , yeah . professor d : you know , what i mean , phd e : yeah . professor d : there 's some information there about their distribution even with very simple measures . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor d : uh , by the way , i had an idea with while i was watching chuck nodding at a lot of these things , is that we can all wear little bells on our heads , so that then you 'd know that phd e : yeah . grad h : ding , ding , ding , ding . phd e : yeah . postdoc f : `` ding `` . that 's cute ! phd b : i think that 'd be really interesting too , with blindfolds . then grad h : nodding with blindfolds , phd b : yeah . the question is , like whether grad h : `` what are you nodding about ? `` phd b : well , trying with and with and without , yeah . grad h : `` sorry , i 'm just i 'm just going to sleep . `` phd b : but then there 's just one @ @ , like . professor d : yeah . phd a : actually , i saw a uh a woman at the bus stop the other day who , um , was talking on her cell phone speaking japanese , and was bowing . you know , profusely . phd b : oh , yeah , that 's really common . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah { comment } yeah . phd a : just , kept phd e : yeah . phd b : it 's very difficult if you try while you 're trying , say , to convince somebody on the phone it 's difficult not to move your hands . not you know , if you watch people they 'll actually do these things . professor d : mm - hmm ? phd b : so . i still think we should try a a meeting or two with the blindfolds , at least of this meeting that we have lots of recordings of grad h : mm - hmm . phd b : um , maybe for part of the meeting , we do n't have to do it the whole meeting . professor d : yeah , i think th i think it 's a great idea . phd b : that could be fun . it 'll be too hard to make barriers , i was thinking because they have to go all the way professor d : w yeah . phd b : you know , i can see chuck even if you put a barrier here . grad h : well , we could just turn out the lights . postdoc f : actually well also i i can say i made barr barriers for so that the stuff i was doing with collin wha which just used , um this kind of foam board . phd b : y yeah ? postdoc f : r really inexpensive . you can you can masking tape it together , these are you know , pretty l large partitions . professor d : yeah . phd b : but then we also have these mikes , is the other thing i was thinking , so we need a barrier that does n't disturb the sound , postdoc f : it 's true , it would disturb the , um the the long - range grad h : the acoustics . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : good morning , again . industrial designer : one question . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : send . user interface : choose a number ? industrial designer : submit . marketing : yep yep yep yep . project manager : all set ? industrial designer : mm . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : good . okay . let 's see what we can find here . okay . a very warm welcome again to everyone . user interface : project manager : um here we are already at our uh functional design meeting . um and this is what we are going to do . the opening , which we are doing now , um and the special note , i 'm project manager but on the meetings i 'm also the secretary , which means i will make uh minutes as i did of the previous meeting . industrial designer : project manager : and uh i also put these as fast as possible in the uh project folder , so you can see them and review what we have discussed . um if i 'm right , there are three presentations , i guess each one of you has prepared one ? good . and um we will also take a look at new project requirements , um if you have n't heard about them yet . and then of course we have to take a decision on the remote control functions and we have some more time , forty minutes . but i think we will need it . um well i do n't know who wants to go first with his presentation . industrial designer : i 'll go first . okay . i 'll go first yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : you can go first , okay . user interface : well . marketing : well , shall i go first with the users ? user interface : well marketing : i think well okay no problem . project manager : is there an order ? i have n't user interface : everybody already has his presentation , marketing : ja precies , ja precies , ja precies user interface : so you can adjust it . industrial designer : so . huh ? okay , um project manager : and one question , uh your name denni , is it with a marketing : e_i_e_ . project manager : i_e_ e_i_e_ , okay . thank you . user interface : industrial designer : okay , um i wanted to explain the working design of the remote control . it 's possibly very handy if you want to uh design one of those . um well so it basically works uh as i uh uh r wrote down uh in this uh little uh summary . uh when you press a button , uh that 's when you do pr for example when you uh want to turn up the volume , um a little connection is made uh the the rubber uh button just presses on a project manager : sorry . user interface : industrial designer : on a little print plate uh which uh makes uh uh a connection that uh gives the chips , uh which is uh mounted beneath those uh that plastic of a rubber button . uh senses that a connection has been made , and know and knows what button you pressed , becau uh for example the the volume up or volume down button . um uh the the chip uh makes a morse code uh like uh signal which uh then is si uh signalled to uh several transistors which makes uh which sends the signal to a little let . you know what a let is ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . and that makes uh the the infra-red lights signal which is sent to the television set . uh which has a sensor in it to uh sense uh the signal of the infra-red . that 's basically uh how it works . um the findings uh uh that i found uh searching up some uh detailed information about the remote controls , are that uh they are very easy to produce , uh it is pis uh it 's possible to uh make them in mass production because it is as eas it is as easy as uh printing a page , uh just uh fibreglass plate um is b uh is uh covered with uh some uh coatings and uh uh and chips . user interface : industrial designer : uh and the technology 's already available , we do n't have to find out how remote controls uh have to work or uh how that how uh to make some chips that are possible to uh to to transmit those uh signals . uh i made a little uh uh animation of about how a tran our uh remote controller works . user interface : oh right . marketing : animation . user interface : industrial designer : we tel user interface : there is something turning . industrial designer : there . project manager : yeah , it 's a little bug it 's in the in the smart board . industrial designer : okay . uh well user interface : industrial designer : the sub-component , i suppose that you understand what a sub-component is , is f in this example it 's the button . uh when it is pressed down , um , the switch is ter is uh is switched on , so with uh the wire is sent to the to the chip in uh co-operation with the battery of course , because to make uh a a signal possible you have to have some sort of uh li uh a d ad uh electronic uh user interface : marketing : infrared light . industrial designer : yes , uh , okay . um w after it 's being composed by the chip uh the signal uh is transported uh to the infra-red bulb , and from there it signals a morse code-like signal to the to the b to the bulb in uh in the television set . okay . s uh i wrote down some personal preferences about uh the remote control . of course it is very handy if the remote control is hand held , so you do n't have to uh uh wind it up or something , or just is it 's it 's very light to uh to make uh to use it . uh i personally uh pref prefer that uh it would be p uh come available in the various colours , and uh easy to use buttons . but i suppose that the one of the other team members uh uh thought of that uh too . user interface : yeah , i 've got it there too . industrial designer : and it is possible for several designs and um easy to use b uh sorry , easy to use buttons . perhaps soft touch , uh touch screen uh buttons because uh the rubber buttons are always uh uh they uh slightly uh they can be slightly damaged , marketing : industrial designer : uh so the numbers on the buttons are not possible uh to read anymore . and uh well as i said uh before th uh we can uh make several designs . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay , well , that 's my contribution to this meeting , and uh marketing : to this meeting . project manager : okay , thank you . user interface : industrial designer : two of these this meeting . so . user interface : shall i go uh next ? 'kay . project manager : please . marketing : smoking . user interface : well uh , my name 's , and i looked at uh technical functions design of the remote . uh i did this by uh looking at examples of other remote controls , of how they uh they look , and information from the web that i found . um well what i found was that uh th the actual use of the remote control is to send messages to television set , how you uh d what you described uh just early . and this can be all sorts of medsa messages , turn it on , turn it off , uh change the channel , adjust volume , that kind of thing . uh play video , teletext , but also t uh play c_d_ if you use it your c_d_ player the remote control will that one . there are some uh examples of remote controls . you can see they are very different . the one has got all the functions that you could possibly need and an lot of uh buttons etcetera . and the other is uh more user friendly , little with big buttons . and uh not n all the the the the stuff you can do with it , but uh the the essential stuff is there . um i guess you could better y you should look at a a user centred uh approach , because the customers have to use them and and if they do n't think it 's usable they wo n't uh buy it . a lot of buttons they may think from i do n't need s as much as that . uh , well perf personal preferences is is uh a simple remote , with uh the basic functions that you can need that you could use . but uh keep in mind the new functions of tv what we discussed earlier , split screen and uh is that a function that you should have ? because all the tvs will have them . or because of only a few and is n't really necessary . and then uh make it i would make so that you can could uh use it on more than one appliance . if you have one that uh uh does with the vi the the video , it could also work with uh with the stereo , because play is play and stop stop and that sort of thing . the shu c you could reuse the buttons so that you do n't have to have a lot of buttons for uh anything . and it should be a user friendly , clear buttons , and not too much . and that is my presentation . project manager : okay , thank you . industrial designer : okay . marketing : 'kay . check . industrial designer : user interface : you must still have it open . marketing : kijke 'kay , so . we 're going to j discuss the functional requirements of the remote , that m that means that functions user n want to have on the remote control , or just yeah , and the users , actually . industrial designer : marketing : the methods i i prefer is we 're going to look which section of the users we are going to focus a l on more . are the younger people going to buy the remote control or the elderly people ? and then tho that section we 're going to focus and adjust the remote more to that section than the whole user section . okay . some data . younger people , from sixteen to thir forty five um years are more interested in fj features like lcd screens , speech recognition e etcetera . and we possess about two third of the market from in that range of age . the elderly people , from forty five years to sixty five years are not that much interested in features , and we possess less than two third , that 's two fifth , of the market share in that area . goed so . project manager : marketing : 'kay . findings . fifty percent of the users lose their remote often . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : so we do n't have to make it very small , like uh like a mobile phone or something , but some somewhat bi bigger than small , so you do n't lose it that much anymore . seventy five percent of the users also find it ugly , and fif seventy five of the users zap a lot , so the buttons sh should be that small , or should n't be that complex because we have to search for the buttons , which one are you going to use . next . important issues about the remote . i think it would be better with a personal reference , but okay . remote control has to have to have a low power usage , because s w seventy five percent of the users only zap one time an hour , so the power usage is also one one time an hour , or so , with a high power usage we would use a lot of but batteries . the volume button and the channel buttons are the two most important buttons on the remote control , so those they those have to h be find very easily . and have to be somewhat like bigger etcetera . it has also be have to find easily when the label is gone . my colleague also announced it that labels should be scratched off or would be s uh senden user interface : marketing : okay . so uh if that 's k uh if that 's the problem , you also have to find it easily on the remote . buttons . like what all colleagues said , have to have to be minimalized . or should be covered , or in lcd screen . lcd screen is easy because we have the lcd screen , we have the various options . put one option and then you have the all the buttons of that options , so the other options would be gone . and you do n't see the buttons . so lcd screens should be easy , but an lcd screen , the problem with the l_ sc lcd screen is that elderly people fr from forty five to for sixty five years do n't use the lcd screen a lot . so we have to that keep that in mind that if you 're going to implement lcd screen , you do n't have to make it that hard to learn or to use . industrial designer : uh lcd screen as in uh touch screen ? marketing : yeah , touch screen , yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : the last but not least , younger people are more critical about the features . because they use the remote control often more often , and are more technical than the ol older people . and the older people spend more money , and easily on a remote control . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : so we have to keep in mind to to focus not a lot not that much on the younger pep younger people , but also somewhat on the elderly people . and on my personal preferences , i do n't have any mo more time to come with that , user interface : marketing : but like i said , lcd screen is easily to use industrial designer : marketing : because you have you can implement a lot of buttons in one remote with not that much buttons . and it should be easy to use . especially the volume buttons , the channel buttes buttons and the number buttons to zap through the channels . and that is it . project manager : okay , industrial designer : okay . project manager : thank you . user interface : oh right . project manager : um , well thank you all , huh . i dunno uh did everyone receive an email with uh the new project requirements ? user interface : no . res i did not . project manager : no ? well , user interface : perhaps the rest ? project manager : then i think it 's a good thing that i made a separate slide of them marketing : ja , project manager : so you can all read them . oh , well not in this presentation . hmm user interface : project manager : should be in there . well , i can tell you them uh from my laptop . um teletext does has become outdated since the popularity of the internet . user interface : oh . mm . project manager : so that 's uh the first thing we i think we should pay less attention to uh teletext . uh the remote control should only be used for the television , otherwise the project becomes more complex , which endangers the time to market , and of course would make it more costly , i think . um our current customers are within the age group of forty plus , and new product should reach a new market with customers that are younger than forty , and you talked about that before . and uh a last point , but also very important , our corporate image should stay recognisable in our products , which means that our uh corporate colour and slogan must be implemented in the new design . so we have to keep that in mind . um well uh according to our agenda it 's then time to take a decision on the remote control functions . so , who has any idea about what should be on it , and what should n't ? user interface : well you said it should only uh work with one appliance ? marketing : be television . user interface : or with one uh d che only the tv ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . only be used for television . user interface : and the video also , or not uh ? project manager : well it says only for television here , huh . marketing : only the television . user interface : oh . alright . okay . project manager : makes it a lot easier , huh ? user interface : yeah . marketing : so yeah , then you can yeah . requirements , no ? functions . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then it should have uh on , off , industrial designer : yeah for user interface : and uh industrial designer : standby options , marketing : yeah , the basics then by a volume , channel , one till two zero numbers on it , industrial designer : yeah ? uh yeah . user interface : yeah . and per perhaps uh marketing : oh teletext does n't have to be ? um other functions . user interface : well uh uh yes yes s sh a button where you can uh change from one number to two numbers . marketing : yeah i had industrial designer : two s two two digits , marketing : yeah , yeah . user interface : can you industrial designer : oh okay . user interface : do n't know if that 's got a name , industrial designer : yeah i understand what you mean . yeah . user interface : but marketing : i think it 's i think it 's easy to implement a button with a s s what which especially do that , because some tvs , if you press the t one and then the two , it be between five secs it make twelve , industrial designer : it makes it twelve , yeah . user interface : yeah . s industrial designer : indeed . okay . marketing : and that 's that 's not relaxed industrial designer : well , not really marketing : to user . industrial designer : and and there are some models that do n't uh accommodate that function . so marketing : yeah . industrial designer : d uh wh the philip 's television makes it possible in that indeed to uh press one and then two to make uh the uh tj to reach channel twelve . marketing : so that it easy and fast . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but uh all the television makes uh use of those button where you first press that button and then press two digits to uh to get marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah , so you should have that one on . industrial designer : uh yeah , think so . marketing : our main targets ' age are ? were ? forty five plus , or ? user interface : mute misschien also . project manager : uh well new product should reach a market with customers that are younger than forty , and now we have current customers uh of forty plus . marketing : forties , okay because because younger people as uh younger people have now , sixteen till to twenty five age , are f eighty one percent interested in lcd screen . from twenty six to thirty five have sixty six percent , and thirty six to forty five , fifty five percent , so i think to um because on most recog remote controls um the print plate will be broken how much , two years . you have to press h very hard to go to the next channel . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : with the lcd screen it 's easier because you only have to wipe the screen to uh for fingerprint , industrial designer : yeah , we we could yeah . but i think that uh that collides with our mission to make it very cheap . marketing : and then you can use it again . industrial designer : because lcd screens are very expensive . marketing : yeah , okay . industrial designer : a touch screen uh probably uh even more . marketing : yeah but a you do n't know true . industrial designer : true , true . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : but uh well um is it possible to make an lcd screen uh , how was the information ? marketing : yeah , it only says that this perce percentage like lcd screen . because , yeah and it says that younger age between sixteen and forty five highly interesting features more critical . industrial designer : so perhaps we should we should focus on that lcd screen . marketing : and if the only f yeah , because our target is sixteen to forty five . user interface : but , do you industrial designer : yeah but uh will we not uh exceed our uh our uh production uh marketing : yeah you do n't know how much it costs . yeah , you do n't know how much it costs , the lcd screen . industrial designer : is it possible to find out , anyway ? marketing : no , i do n't have any costs here , industrial designer : you know ? marketing : i only have percentages . user interface : but if you would do an lcd screen do we have don do n't you have any buttons ? or because if it only directs at the tv , then you only have uh i do n't know what you want to do with the lcd screen . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : no , an lcd screen 's just like uh like a drawn here . um just uh displays several buttons , user interface : yeah ? industrial designer : for example um if you wanted the minimal uh use b uh buttons , such as channel and volume , you just h uh displays four buttons on the screen user interface : oh right , so you can industrial designer : and it 's possible to p uh press them down , just like a touch screen . user interface : oh , yeah alright . so you can adjust which buttons you want on that s screen . industrial designer : yeah , we can make it possible to do that , yeah . marketing : yeah , if you want to adjust , like for example , adjust the audio settings , you press audio on the touchscreen industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : and you get the buttons for audio settings , user interface : yeah alright , oh right . marketing : so the other buttons are gone . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : so we 're going for an lcd screen ? user interface : yeah . would be yeah . marketing : i think it 's the most easier thing , industrial designer : that 's my uh project manager : and hoping that when we produce a lot it wo n't be too expensive . marketing : yeah . user interface : well we had twelve fifty , i guess , for uh production ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no . yeah . industrial designer : twelve fifty . marketing : industrial designer : um . user interface : any guesses ? industrial designer : marketing : industrial designer : well i suppose wi if the mar if our um if the i if the young people are interested in lcd screens , we should make 'em . marketing : highly . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and if that is our d uh market share to uh and our goal to uh deliver those uh remote controls user interface : but but he also said that we should not only focus on the younger people , but also on the older , and will they use it if it only has an lcd screen ? marketing : yeah , but um , s forty six to forty five , thirty three percent , and sixty fifty six to sixty five twelve percent . user interface : oh , so still a little bit people marketing : but our our our what 's it , project requirements are the new products should be reached for new markets , to customers that are younger than forty . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah that 's right . but you do n't want to alienate the other uh marketing : no , that not now , but , so user interface : but if they also buy it then it 's alright . i guess . marketing : yeah , but market share fro for for forty years and younger is higher than that of sixty five and younger . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . alright . project manager : okay , so lcd it is ? user interface : an yes . project manager : okay . industrial designer : mm . it 's treasure . project manager : and what else ? industrial designer : i hope we uh h and let 's hope to reach those uh those sales . marketing : yeah , i i if it yeah , if it costs gets too much , too expensive , then yeah , we should be sticking to rubber buttons . project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , can you um uh s i think that that they will send you some information about uh the cost of lcd uh screens . user interface : yeah . marketing : n nothing , no costs at all . user interface : but perhaps later , industrial designer : uh so if you uh user interface : so uh industrial designer : yeah , so if you uh you receive an email about that , uh can you post it in the or should n't we post that in uh our projects mail uh folder . marketing : yeah , in user interface : yeah . marketing : i think that should yeah i think we all get the costs of everything . user interface : i do n't industrial designer : because you are the the marketing uh expert . marketing : yeah , okay , i 'll i 'll post it . industrial designer : i uh user interface : well perhaps we should have a backup plan that we would use buttons if it 's uh too expensive . industrial designer : yeah sure , sure . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . but for now it 's lcd . okay . marketing : okay , lcd , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : then you have the seventy five percent of users find it r ugly . industrial designer : user interface : the lcd ? oh that 's a bit of a problem . marketing : yeah , and eighty percent of the users would spend more money with a when a remote would look fancy . user interface : oh , that 's a bit of a problem . marketing : tha i l i it 'll look fancy with lcd screen . yeah . industrial designer : it 's looks fancy one yeah , of lcd screen . user interface : yeah , but they do n't they do n't like it . project manager : yeah . user interface : they think it 's ugly . when it has an lcd screen . marketing : yeah , just a the plain remotes , not not specific lcd remotes . user interface : oh , alright , i thought that you said that . project manager : yeah , and maybe you can make something fancy out of an lcd remote , marketing : so project manager : because it 's new , as far as i know . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : industrial designer : mm yeah . marketing : yeah , of course . industrial designer : and then not yeah . marketing : and then you have the other thing , that seventy five percent zap a lot , but that 's not a f question with the lcd screen . industrial designer : um . yeah . marketing : only thing you have to do is wipe the screen off once each time , to get all the fingerprints off it . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm . okay ? project manager : okay , what else does our remote need ? user interface : a mute button . marketing : um project manager : mute button . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i think . and marketing : the most important things on a f on an on an uh remote control are channel selection , volume con selection , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and power s power usage . user interface : yeah . marketing : and a teletext , but that is not of the question . user interface : but but should n't you put a button of for teletext on the for the people who want to use it ? marketing : other things are sorry ? user interface : remembering we have got a big remote that you have to fill . marketing : yeah , it could be . yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , and we could make an a a separate menu on the lcd uh screen for teletext . marketing : yeah , teletext . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and there 's also a marketing : and other other less important things are screen settings , audio settings , and channel settings , user interface : yeah , they are less important , but i think they should be there , marketing : less important . user interface : or not ? marketing : yeah , should be there , but not press industrial designer : but in a sub sub-menu or something like that . marketing : yeah , sub-menu , yeah . industrial designer : uh i think it 's also important to uh make it possible to um how do you call it in english , uh , to not use batteries , and use ac uh bat uh batteries to uh to be project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : like with a with a mouse , you have not , yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah sure . indeed . so uh you can mount uh the the the uh marketing : yeah , in a breath it 's industrial designer : uh the remote control to um project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : charted . user interface : we should think of the twelve fifty we have industrial designer : to refill the user interface : but marketing : yeah , user interface : i do n't know how much that 's going to uh marketing : but we do n't we do n't have any costs now , industrial designer : yeah . okay , marketing : so yeah . industrial designer : because i uh when you get an lcd screen , you run it on batteries , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the batteries will be uh empty very soon , very fast . marketing : yeah e e power supply is one of the most important things . user interface : you should perhaps you should be able to to switch the control off . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : if you have an lcd screen that 's burns all the time i dunno . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . yeah . user interface : you should n't on and off because that 's ver extra , that you have t first you have to turn the remote on , and then you can uh project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : uh marketing : yeah , i think it 's it 's not that easy because i do n't think people will like it who who uh that you have to turn it on first and then use it , user interface : nee that 's that 's uh yeah . marketing : so i think it 's better when th the tv shuts down , the remote shuts down . user interface : but then you ca n't industrial designer : and go to standby mode when you do n't use it , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so that marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah yeah au automac matically , that it yeah . industrial designer : yeah , automatically . after two minutes or three minutes , something like that . marketing : yeah . after two minutes , yeah two three minutes , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . and maybe a low battery indicator ? on the screen . industrial designer : yeah . sure . project manager : marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : and then b that uh industrial designer : marketing : before an hour when its get again gets empty . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then you have plenty of time to recharge it , of put it in a recharger . charger . project manager : so we are going for the for the recharger . user interface : project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , if it 's . uh . user interface : if it 's sensible . marketing : yeah , because when you 're watching tv , you 're zapping and you have to put it in a recharger , user interface : yeah . yeah , b when the batteries are low marketing : and i do n't think it industrial designer : when you when you 're done with s uh w uh watching your television , you have to put it marketing : yeah , okay , but then we have to be sure that the the the the batteries go hours , six hours , five , six hours , then . user interface : but you 'll also forget to put it in , industrial designer : yeah sure , of course . user interface : because you throw it on the couch industrial designer : yeah , marketing : yeah , industrial designer : but marketing : then you have a problem . user interface : and you do n't remember . industrial designer : but you also forget to buy batteries , user interface : yeah . that 's right . industrial designer : and then you can you ca n't use it , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so i marketing : or we have to be sure that the batteries last couple of days when they 're recharged . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : well i think the batteries should should w should work a lot longer than a couple of days , or not ? marketing : yeah because you have b user interface : 'cause marketing : but you have lcd screen . user interface : yeah , that 's right , but marketing : high power usage . industrial designer : high power user cell , i uh it should be uh a standard move to to put your remote control in the charger when you 're done watching television , that 's also a a a great advantage because you ca n't lose it anymore . because you are obliged to uh put it in the charger and not to uh leave it in a couch uh between some cushions . marketing : true . yeah . yeah . true . user interface : yeah . right . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah , you made a point there . user interface : but then you also have to s have somewhere where you can put a remo recharger near your couch project manager : yeah , also . user interface : because otherwise you have to walk a long way when you twoft want to turn on the tv . marketing : yeah , otherwise all your yeah . just a small device . user interface : yeah . i think everything has it for and i guess . industrial designer : yeah it has n't it does n't have to be big . marketing : plug it in , that 's it . yeah , like a like telephone charger or something . industrial designer : yeah just just a cable , or a even a a a a a charger where you can mount it on . something like that , marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : just u user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . user interface : alright . project manager : okay , well i 've marketing : it has to be easy to use also , or things . uh market share , speaker re speech recognition . project manager : yeah , you have some more user interface : project manager : points . industrial designer : functional designs uh for the elderly uh you could make it possible to enlarge the screen , marketing : i think . industrial designer : so make it possible to not uh display uh a button at ten points marketing : also . industrial designer : uh , or marketing : well i think that this should be standard . large button large buttons . industrial designer : yeah but it is uh one of the functions you have to uh specify . marketing : yeah ? okay . industrial designer : because we can look at uh uh perhaps uh forty buttons at a screen , but the elderly only look at two buttons . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : okay . marketing : . project manager : and you said something about speech recognition ? marketing : yeah , industrial designer : speech recognition ? marketing : it says also industrial designer : hello . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , industrial designer : twelve euro user interface : twelve fifty , twelve fifty . industrial designer : twelve euro fifty . marketing : twelve . that 's an also ninety one percent sixteen to twenty five , twenty six to thirty five years , seventy six percent , and thirty six to forty five , thirty five percent . user interface : so it 's pretty big . industrial designer : well , spread it by a big market . marketing : but then i i i project manager : even bigger than for lcd . user interface : yeah . w i know let 's do a speech . industrial designer : well marketing : yeah . industrial designer : let 's leave out all the remote controls and just put a microphone on top of the television to user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . ninety . twenty five . user interface : you can clap or something . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : channel . industrial designer : turn volume up . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : hey , that that 's an idea . marketing : user interface : now you should n't say the wrong thing , i dunno . industrial designer : okay , well marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that should it has to be remote control , not marketing : yeah , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : twelve . user interface : but they want to talk into the remo remote control , or something , industrial designer : sure why not why not marketing : yeah . user interface : or ? marketing : is this only would you would you pay more for speech recognition in a remote control . it 's the only thing it says . industrial designer : yeah , mm . user interface : oh , but do we want to implement that , or ? marketing : i think an lcd screen should be suf sufficient . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but when you look at the percentages marketing : yeah , it says a lot , but project manager : speech recognition scores even higher , huh ? industrial designer : perhaps the options should be uh why not ? user interface : project manager : yeah , well , industrial designer : why not ? project manager : maybe because of the cost , but uh nobody knows uh how much uh it will cost uh . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : let 's hope uh to have some uh d user interface : i know marketing : no i think i think it 's better to have l_ lcd screen , because in the area of tw thirty six to forty five , we have about thirty percent of the market share in in our hands , and fifty five of those people want lcd screen and thirty five want speech recognition . so i think it 's better to keep it with lcd screen . project manager : but would it be useful to imple implement both ? on one remote ? marketing : yeah , if the costs al allow it . project manager : or user interface : well project manager : yeah , i dunno . user interface : i do n't know if that can be done with the cost of twelve fifty . with that uh marketing : if it should be done , if it could be done , i wo n't matter . yeah . user interface : yeah , industrial designer : we should do it . yeah . sure . user interface : but how would you like to implement that , that you say volume up , and then it goes up , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : certain systems already exist , i think . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : then you also have to have different languages if we go international . then uh it 's y it 's yours to do a french and dutch and english marketing : true . industrial designer : true , yeah . marketing : yeah . true . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but that should also be with f should be also with lcd screen . industrial designer : this should be uh accommodated with some software , uh , uh . yeah . marketing : because then i think in chinese is different written , volume is different written than um swahili or something . user interface : yeah , that 's right . yeah . industrial designer : right . swahili . swahili . user interface : yeah you can use icons for the industrial designer : yeah . user interface : a speaker and uh marketing : ja , well possible . industrial designer : indeed . user interface : but if that 's better than language for the for the remote . marketing : yeah , yeah yeah yeah industrial designer : yeah . so we want to uh yeah it 's international uh okay . user interface : then it 's yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : 'kay , what else ? project manager : so , no speech recognition ? or user interface : well , if it could be done , we marketing : yeah , industrial designer : y it should be done . if it could be done , should be done . marketing : we have to keep yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , and then we have different languages . user interface : yeah , that should be uh anything matters . industrial designer : that 's not so difficult at all , project manager : okay , just make a separate remote for each uh industrial designer : because i already use on several voice operated systems , and they are all possible to uh not all , but user interface : well , you sh you should to adjust the thing . marketing : i think it 's difficult . every language of dialects user interface : yeah . marketing : i think it 's very differen difficult . user interface : and you have to speak the so that it can understand . marketing : yeah . i think it ca n't be implemented , but maybe user interface : you could use that n as an option , if you have money left , or something . marketing : yeah , 's an option , yes . industrial designer : yeah , sure , indeed . marketing : fifty euro cents . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : let 's do speech . industrial designer : for speech recognition . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , so we only do this when we have enough money left . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . well i 've written down an an on or off button , volume selection , channel selection , uh the digits from one to zero , huh . um or from zero to nine . uh a digits button to switch uh between one and two digits , mute button , a separate menu for teletext , a battery indicator . um we 're going to use a docking station and uh probably lcd and if there 's enough money , speech recognition . and uh the possibility to uh enlarge buttons or to have large buttons user interface : mm . yeah . marketing : mm , yes . project manager : in general . user interface : i with uh teletext if it was n't ver very important , it was but marketing : no , but user interface : you also now have colours . i do n't know if we should implement that . yeah , marketing : curved ? user interface : when you press the red button , you go to page one hundred two , and when you press the industrial designer : uh yeah . user interface : i do n't know if we should implement that , because it says that teletext not really important , industrial designer : s shortcuts . uh . user interface : but yeah , the shortcut , and you ca n't go to sport . marketing : i think we should we could that we could also implement a audio settings , screen settings and channel settings , but as sub-menus . user interface : yeah . marketing : d mainly if you turn the uh remote control on , you have to u you have to see from one till zero , channel and volume . and if you want to use teletext screen or audio , then you can press it . industrial designer : sh yeah , just just sub-menu . yeah . marketing : it should be available but not user interface : 'cause it should be there . industrial designer : not directly uh available . marketing : not yeah . yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay , so not too much teletext support , but in a separate menu , and marketing : yeah . user interface : so actually it is there but it 's just not r ready there . marketing : yeah , but s industrial designer : directly available . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so does it confuse uh the user ? user interface : you 'll have to search for it . marketing : they 'd have to be easy to use . industrial designer : uh . i 'll search um . user interface : industrial designer : if you want to use teletext , you can push the teletext button and then the options uh become available . user interface : yeah . yeah , that 's a marketing : the sign of it . project manager : okay , but no more buttons or functions , or ? user interface : i guess not . marketing : uh , no . what else can you do with a television ? user interface : we 've got anon project manager : are n't we forgetting something very important ? user interface : have got got two examples here , but i do n't think there 's anything we 're missing . marketing : uh play , pause , does n't n need to be there . user interface : well , we do n't have the video orders marketing : yes , so this is your presentation . we could check the other remote controls with technical functions . user interface : yeah , you could look here all the the marketing : which ones were yours ? user interface : uh th th th th i do n't know , technical functions . marketing : techni user interface : they 're a bit small , you can we should stretch them , because project manager : ping . marketing : ja ja ja ja ja . technical functions . yeah okay . user interface : i guess we 've got them all . marketing : uh i think i go to have volume , mute but i yeah . very slow . yeah , the zoom buttons . user interface : and for a tv ? can you zoom in a tv ? marketing : yeah , b wide screen , high screen , different things you have , user interface : or that you can put 'em on uh on on wide and marketing : yeah different uh user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : but that should also be a sub then , a sub uh menu thing . industrial designer : menu . marketing : yeah it should be available , but then in separate screen settings or something . user interface : yeah , so we should also implement se screen settings . marketing : yeah , screen settings , audio settings , teletext settings you have . user interface : oh right . yeah . marketing : channel settings . user interface : yeah , so you can program the marketing : so those four , and of course the main . user interface : yeah , so the first you see the main , and the other ones you can uh go to uh marketing : yeah . yeah . like tap screens or something user interface : yeah . marketing : or , i dunno . user interface : i hope we can do this . marketing : something industrial designer : there are a lot of options depending uh on what kind of television you got . marketing : yeah , if uh industrial designer : 'cause if you do n't got a wide screen television you do n't need the uh the screen settings marketing : no , you do n't yu a no you then you do n't no ni do n't industrial designer : uh for uh marketing : then you do n't use it . industrial designer : yeah and if the television does not support such uh operations marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : we do n't have to use that top . yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so you leave it alone . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . or it could be possible to have a a standard version of the remote , an expanded version . user interface : yeah . and do we want them in different colours , or marketing : yeah . user interface : and and the buttons , should they have colours ? marketing : colours . yeah . industrial designer : colours i think the main colour of the remote control is uh the colour of the lcd screen . user interface : oh but we do n't have any buttons . yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i because we do n't want a lot a devi yeah a device self s g marketing : yeah , then defines itself . because uh how many percent ? eighty percent ? user interface : they think it 's ugly , right ? marketing : would spend more money if it looks fancy . industrial designer : okay , so use uh very uh lot of peo user interface : perhaps you can uh make adjustable fronts , like with the telephones . industrial designer : adjust with phones , yes user interface : you can uh but i do n't think that uh industrial designer : okay . twelve euro fifty . well , make it available in different colours , you mean ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : sure . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : red , white , blue , black . user interface : project manager : and a see-through uh marketing : rasta colours . industrial designer : grey . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah sea view , yes , simpson 's versions and marketing : yeah , see through version . yeah . if you press a button , it turns green . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , well industrial designer : leave . project manager : that 's the user interface : a disco version . project manager : signal for las final five minutes . user interface : five minutes ? project manager : um so i have uh the things i just read . um then we have uh separate menus for teletext , screen settings , audio settings , and what else ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : channel settings ? user interface : oh yeah , right . project manager : channel settings . user interface : so you can program the tv . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : perhaps you should you 'd throw them on on in one pile . so , options , and then you sub them . marketing : yeah . could be possible . user interface : otherwise you have all those teletext , perhaps teletext not , but marketing : or like uh you have a menu button , you press project manager : no , we said teletext also a separate menu . user interface : yeah , but i marketing : yeah , or otherwise you have a menu button , press menu then you have uh main uh menu search uh all the all the settings . user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay , but we can work that out later , i guess . user interface : but marketing : yeah , no problem . yep . project manager : so we 're having a a general menu with the most used functions , uh teletext , screen settings , audio settings , channel settings , and maybe there are options for the remote itself ? like uh large icons or small icons user interface : i do n't know . project manager : and i do n't know what else , but marketing : i think b because we do n't have a lot of buttons on the one screen , user interface : or do we have any buttons ? on the remote . marketing : i think the buttons yeah , but but or like you have user interface : which one ? marketing : you only have channel button or volume button . those buttons you can you can project manager : yeah , but on the lcd , user interface : but that 's also in the lcd , right ? marketing : yeah . project manager : right , yeah , okay . user interface : so we do n't have any normal buttons marketing : yeah , th user interface : that uh marketing : no , no normal buttons , yeah . user interface : no , alright . marketing : maybe only the on and o on and off button . user interface : yet on and off is p is perhaps you kno project manager : but we do n't need a special industrial designer : uh not button marketing : but i do n't think project manager : we do n't need a special options menu for the remote itself . user interface : no , no . marketing : mm , no . project manager : okay . user interface : oh well , you should be able to set which tv you have . if you have if you have uh industrial designer : yeah sure , of course you need uh a settings button , uh or a settings option for the remote control . user interface : yeah . but is n't idea to use uh uh what you said , uh normal on and off button for the tv , that you do n't have to use a marketing : no no no , because we we discussed that you could charge it , otherwise is it it jumps to stand-by mode automatically . user interface : yeah but but not for the remote but for the tv , that you use marketing : yeah , but a tv of course , th that 's the i think that 's a best thing is that to implement that one in the menu with the volume and channel . user interface : but a not as normal button , in the lcd , project manager : well maybe there should be a separate button apart from the lcd , user interface : yeah . project manager : because you ca n't turn it on when the lcd is off . so how do you turn the thing on ? there has to be a on button on the remote , user interface : no you just tap i think . industrial designer : just tap it . marketing : yeah , you tap . project manager : tap the thing . okay . marketing : touch screen , yeah then it 's turn turn off , turn on . project manager : and then the television is on also , or just the remote ? marketing : no , just the remote . user interface : but marketing : a television do n't have to be on , that one you can press on , industrial designer : yeah , it should be in standby mode , but marketing : yeah stand-by , then press on remote , press on and then tv should be available . or not . user interface : yeah a yeah . i do n't know whether it 's handy to have a n a normal on button , a r just uh rubber uh for for tv , marketing : separate . user interface : so you can turn it on and then you can choose the channel . otherwise you i do n't know whether or not that 's industrial designer : a a a normal button on the remote control , user interface : yeah , yeah . to turn it on . industrial designer : or norm ? user interface : of or you should put it in the lcd screen . industrial designer : yeah , because uh when you touch the lcd screen when it is in standby mode , it should pop on . user interface : yeah , i have , project manager : okay , well user interface : yeah . industrial designer : wh uh why would it be a a need to have a normal button ? user interface : well i i guess if you use the lcd screen , you first have to search where is the on button , then you uh you you then turn it , and then the tv goes on . but if you have a normal on button on the on the remote , then you do the on , and then you search the channel which you want . marketing : yeah , but i think the re the remote control , if you press tap the screen , it always should jump to the screen which has the volume button , channel button , and of course of also the on and off button . user interface : oh right . industrial designer : i think it looks a lot more fancy if you use uh if you do n't have any buttons on the s on on remote control . user interface : yeah , i think so too . otherwise y wet e k yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so actually we 're going to create a a button-less uh remote . no buttons at all . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , well that 's might be a unique selling point , huh for a remote . user interface : if we can afford it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , well i guess we have to industrial designer : oh , okay marketing : yeah , if we can afford it . yeah . project manager : postpone further discussion to uh our next meeting , because we 're running out of time . um for now , we 're having a lunch break , and then there will be uh half an hour for the uh next share of individual work . i will uh write uh minutes , if i can create them out of this . and uh put them in the the project documents uh folder . user interface : project manager : and here are the individual actions for the for the other roles . and of course specific instructions will be sent to you again by your uh personal coach . user interface : alright . project manager : luckily as we are . okay , well user interface : project manager : thank you very much , for now , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and uh have a nice lunch , huh ? user interface : lunch . industrial designer : okay . user interface : industrial designer : food . user interface : should we put this back in our rooms , or uh ? industrial designer : yeah , think so . </s>
<s> summarize industrial designer 's desire about remote control working design . </s> industrial designer : okay , um i wanted to explain the working design of the remote control . it 's possibly very handy if you want to uh design one of those . um well so it basically works uh as i uh uh r wrote down uh in this uh little uh summary . uh when you press a button , uh that 's when you do pr for example when you uh want to turn up the volume , um a little connection is made uh the the rubber uh button just presses on a project manager : sorry . user interface : industrial designer : on a little print plate uh which uh makes uh uh a connection that uh gives the chips , uh which is uh mounted beneath those uh that plastic of a rubber button . uh senses that a connection has been made , and know and knows what button you pressed , becau uh for example the the volume up or volume down button . um uh the the chip uh makes a morse code uh like uh signal which uh then is si uh signalled to uh several transistors which makes uh which sends the signal to a little let . you know what a let is ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . and that makes uh the the infra-red lights signal which is sent to the television set . uh which has a sensor in it to uh sense uh the signal of the infra-red . that 's basically uh how it works . um the findings uh uh that i found uh searching up some uh detailed information about the remote controls , are that uh they are very easy to produce , uh it is pis uh it 's possible to uh make them in mass production because it is as eas it is as easy as uh printing a page , uh just uh fibreglass plate um is b uh is uh covered with uh some uh coatings and uh uh and chips . user interface : industrial designer : uh and the technology 's already available , we do n't have to find out how remote controls uh have to work or uh how that how uh to make some chips that are possible to uh to to transmit those uh signals . uh i made a little uh uh animation of about how a tran our uh remote controller works . user interface : oh right . marketing : animation . user interface : industrial designer : we tel user interface : there is something turning . industrial designer : there . project manager : yeah , it 's a little bug it 's in the in the smart board . industrial designer : okay . uh well user interface : industrial designer : the sub-component , i suppose that you understand what a sub-component is , is f in this example it 's the button . uh when it is pressed down , um , the switch is ter is uh is switched on , so with uh the wire is sent to the to the chip in uh co-operation with the battery of course , because to make uh a a signal possible you have to have some sort of uh li uh a d ad uh electronic uh user interface : marketing : infrared light . industrial designer : yes , uh , okay . um w after it 's being composed by the chip uh the signal uh is transported uh to the infra-red bulb , and from there it signals a morse code-like signal to the to the b to the bulb in uh in the television set . okay . s uh i wrote down some personal preferences about uh the remote control . of course it is very handy if the remote control is hand held , so you do n't have to uh uh wind it up or something , or just is it 's it 's very light to uh to make uh to use it . uh i personally uh pref prefer that uh it would be p uh come available in the various colours , and uh easy to use buttons . but i suppose that the one of the other team members uh uh thought of that uh too . user interface : yeah , i 've got it there too . industrial designer : and it is possible for several designs and um easy to use b uh sorry , easy to use buttons . perhaps soft touch , uh touch screen uh buttons because uh the rubber buttons are always uh uh they uh slightly uh they can be slightly damaged , marketing : industrial designer : uh so the numbers on the buttons are not possible uh to read anymore . and uh well as i said uh before th uh we can uh make several designs . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the functional remote control ? </s> industrial designer : okay , um i wanted to explain the working design of the remote control . it 's possibly very handy if you want to uh design one of those . um well so it basically works uh as i uh uh r wrote down uh in this uh little uh summary . uh when you press a button , uh that 's when you do pr for example when you uh want to turn up the volume , um a little connection is made uh the the rubber uh button just presses on a project manager : sorry . user interface : industrial designer : on a little print plate uh which uh makes uh uh a connection that uh gives the chips , uh which is uh mounted beneath those uh that plastic of a rubber button . uh senses that a connection has been made , and know and knows what button you pressed , becau uh for example the the volume up or volume down button . um uh the the chip uh makes a morse code uh like uh signal which uh then is si uh signalled to uh several transistors which makes uh which sends the signal to a little let . you know what a let is ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . and that makes uh the the infra-red lights signal which is sent to the television set . uh which has a sensor in it to uh sense uh the signal of the infra-red . that 's basically uh how it works . um the findings uh uh that i found uh searching up some uh detailed information about the remote controls , are that uh they are very easy to produce , uh it is pis uh it 's possible to uh make them in mass production because it is as eas it is as easy as uh printing a page , uh just uh fibreglass plate um is b uh is uh covered with uh some uh coatings and uh uh and chips . user interface : industrial designer : uh and the technology 's already available , we do n't have to find out how remote controls uh have to work or uh how that how uh to make some chips that are possible to uh to to transmit those uh signals . uh i made a little uh uh animation of about how a tran our uh remote controller works . user interface : oh right . marketing : animation . user interface : industrial designer : we tel user interface : there is something turning . industrial designer : there . project manager : yeah , it 's a little bug it 's in the in the smart board . industrial designer : okay . uh well user interface : industrial designer : the sub-component , i suppose that you understand what a sub-component is , is f in this example it 's the button . uh when it is pressed down , um , the switch is ter is uh is switched on , so with uh the wire is sent to the to the chip in uh co-operation with the battery of course , because to make uh a a signal possible you have to have some sort of uh li uh a d ad uh electronic uh user interface : marketing : infrared light . industrial designer : yes , uh , okay . um w after it 's being composed by the chip uh the signal uh is transported uh to the infra-red bulb , and from there it signals a morse code-like signal to the to the b to the bulb in uh in the television set . okay . s uh i wrote down some personal preferences about uh the remote control . of course it is very handy if the remote control is hand held , so you do n't have to uh uh wind it up or something , or just is it 's it 's very light to uh to make uh to use it . uh i personally uh pref prefer that uh it would be p uh come available in the various colours , and uh easy to use buttons . but i suppose that the one of the other team members uh uh thought of that uh too . user interface : yeah , i 've got it there too . industrial designer : and it is possible for several designs and um easy to use b uh sorry , easy to use buttons . perhaps soft touch , uh touch screen uh buttons because uh the rubber buttons are always uh uh they uh slightly uh they can be slightly damaged , marketing : industrial designer : uh so the numbers on the buttons are not possible uh to read anymore . and uh well as i said uh before th uh we can uh make several designs . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay , well , that 's my contribution to this meeting , and uh marketing : to this meeting . project manager : okay , thank you . user interface : industrial designer : two of these this meeting . so . user interface : shall i go uh next ? 'kay . project manager : please . marketing : smoking . user interface : well uh , my name 's , and i looked at uh technical functions design of the remote . uh i did this by uh looking at examples of other remote controls , of how they uh they look , and information from the web that i found . um well what i found was that uh th the actual use of the remote control is to send messages to television set , how you uh d what you described uh just early . and this can be all sorts of medsa messages , turn it on , turn it off , uh change the channel , adjust volume , that kind of thing . uh play video , teletext , but also t uh play c_d_ if you use it your c_d_ player the remote control will that one . there are some uh examples of remote controls . you can see they are very different . the one has got all the functions that you could possibly need and an lot of uh buttons etcetera . and the other is uh more user friendly , little with big buttons . and uh not n all the the the the stuff you can do with it , but uh the the essential stuff is there . um i guess you could better y you should look at a a user centred uh approach , because the customers have to use them and and if they do n't think it 's usable they wo n't uh buy it . a lot of buttons they may think from i do n't need s as much as that . uh , well perf personal preferences is is uh a simple remote , with uh the basic functions that you can need that you could use . but uh keep in mind the new functions of tv what we discussed earlier , split screen and uh is that a function that you should have ? because all the tvs will have them . or because of only a few and is n't really necessary . and then uh make it i would make so that you can could uh use it on more than one appliance . if you have one that uh uh does with the vi the the video , it could also work with uh with the stereo , because play is play and stop stop and that sort of thing . the shu c you could reuse the buttons so that you do n't have to have a lot of buttons for uh anything . and it should be a user friendly , clear buttons , and not too much . and that is my presentation . project manager : okay , thank you . industrial designer : okay . marketing : 'kay . check . industrial designer : user interface : you must still have it open . marketing : kijke 'kay , so . we 're going to j discuss the functional requirements of the remote , that m that means that functions user n want to have on the remote control , or just yeah , and the users , actually . industrial designer : marketing : the methods i i prefer is we 're going to look which section of the users we are going to focus a l on more . are the younger people going to buy the remote control or the elderly people ? and then tho that section we 're going to focus and adjust the remote more to that section than the whole user section . okay . some data . younger people , from sixteen to thir forty five um years are more interested in fj features like lcd screens , speech recognition e etcetera . and we possess about two third of the market from in that range of age . the elderly people , from forty five years to sixty five years are not that much interested in features , and we possess less than two third , that 's two fifth , of the market share in that area . goed so . project manager : marketing : 'kay . findings . fifty percent of the users lose their remote often . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : so we do n't have to make it very small , like uh like a mobile phone or something , but some somewhat bi bigger than small , so you do n't lose it that much anymore . seventy five percent of the users also find it ugly , and fif seventy five of the users zap a lot , so the buttons sh should be that small , or should n't be that complex because we have to search for the buttons , which one are you going to use . next . important issues about the remote . i think it would be better with a personal reference , but okay . remote control has to have to have a low power usage , because s w seventy five percent of the users only zap one time an hour , so the power usage is also one one time an hour , or so , with a high power usage we would use a lot of but batteries . the volume button and the channel buttons are the two most important buttons on the remote control , so those they those have to h be find very easily . and have to be somewhat like bigger etcetera . it has also be have to find easily when the label is gone . my colleague also announced it that labels should be scratched off or would be s uh senden user interface : marketing : okay . so uh if that 's k uh if that 's the problem , you also have to find it easily on the remote . buttons . like what all colleagues said , have to have to be minimalized . or should be covered , or in lcd screen . lcd screen is easy because we have the lcd screen , we have the various options . put one option and then you have the all the buttons of that options , so the other options would be gone . and you do n't see the buttons . so lcd screens should be easy , but an lcd screen , the problem with the l_ sc lcd screen is that elderly people fr from forty five to for sixty five years do n't use the lcd screen a lot . so we have to that keep that in mind that if you 're going to implement lcd screen , you do n't have to make it that hard to learn or to use . industrial designer : uh lcd screen as in uh touch screen ? marketing : yeah , touch screen , yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : the last but not least , younger people are more critical about the features . because they use the remote control often more often , and are more technical than the ol older people . and the older people spend more money , and easily on a remote control . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : so we have to keep in mind to to focus not a lot not that much on the younger pep younger people , but also somewhat on the elderly people . and on my personal preferences , i do n't have any mo more time to come with that , user interface : marketing : but like i said , lcd screen is easily to use industrial designer : marketing : because you have you can implement a lot of buttons in one remote with not that much buttons . and it should be easy to use . especially the volume buttons , the channel buttes buttons and the number buttons to zap through the channels . and that is it . project manager : okay , industrial designer : okay . project manager : thank you . user interface : oh right . project manager : um , well thank you all , huh . i dunno uh did everyone receive an email with uh the new project requirements ? user interface : no . res i did not . project manager : no ? well , user interface : perhaps the rest ? project manager : then i think it 's a good thing that i made a separate slide of them marketing : ja , project manager : so you can all read them . oh , well not in this presentation . hmm user interface : project manager : should be in there . well , i can tell you them uh from my laptop . um teletext does has become outdated since the popularity of the internet . </s>
<s> what did marketing think about functional requirements about remote control ? </s> marketing : kijke 'kay , so . we 're going to j discuss the functional requirements of the remote , that m that means that functions user n want to have on the remote control , or just yeah , and the users , actually . industrial designer : marketing : the methods i i prefer is we 're going to look which section of the users we are going to focus a l on more . are the younger people going to buy the remote control or the elderly people ? and then tho that section we 're going to focus and adjust the remote more to that section than the whole user section . okay . some data . younger people , from sixteen to thir forty five um years are more interested in fj features like lcd screens , speech recognition e etcetera . and we possess about two third of the market from in that range of age . the elderly people , from forty five years to sixty five years are not that much interested in features , and we possess less than two third , that 's two fifth , of the market share in that area . goed so . project manager : marketing : 'kay . findings . fifty percent of the users lose their remote often . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : so we do n't have to make it very small , like uh like a mobile phone or something , but some somewhat bi bigger than small , so you do n't lose it that much anymore . seventy five percent of the users also find it ugly , and fif seventy five of the users zap a lot , so the buttons sh should be that small , or should n't be that complex because we have to search for the buttons , which one are you going to use . next . important issues about the remote . i think it would be better with a personal reference , but okay . remote control has to have to have a low power usage , because s w seventy five percent of the users only zap one time an hour , so the power usage is also one one time an hour , or so , with a high power usage we would use a lot of but batteries . the volume button and the channel buttons are the two most important buttons on the remote control , so those they those have to h be find very easily . and have to be somewhat like bigger etcetera . it has also be have to find easily when the label is gone . my colleague also announced it that labels should be scratched off or would be s uh senden user interface : marketing : okay . so uh if that 's k uh if that 's the problem , you also have to find it easily on the remote . buttons . like what all colleagues said , have to have to be minimalized . or should be covered , or in lcd screen . lcd screen is easy because we have the lcd screen , we have the various options . put one option and then you have the all the buttons of that options , so the other options would be gone . and you do n't see the buttons . so lcd screens should be easy , but an lcd screen , the problem with the l_ sc lcd screen is that elderly people fr from forty five to for sixty five years do n't use the lcd screen a lot . so we have to that keep that in mind that if you 're going to implement lcd screen , you do n't have to make it that hard to learn or to use . industrial designer : uh lcd screen as in uh touch screen ? marketing : yeah , touch screen , yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : the last but not least , younger people are more critical about the features . because they use the remote control often more often , and are more technical than the ol older people . and the older people spend more money , and easily on a remote control . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : so we have to keep in mind to to focus not a lot not that much on the younger pep younger people , but also somewhat on the elderly people . and on my personal preferences , i do n't have any mo more time to come with that , user interface : marketing : but like i said , lcd screen is easily to use industrial designer : </s>
<s> what function did the group think should be on the remote control ? </s> project manager : so that 's uh the first thing we i think we should pay less attention to uh teletext . uh the remote control should only be used for the television , otherwise the project becomes more complex , which endangers the time to market , and of course would make it more costly , i think . um our current customers are within the age group of forty plus , and new product should reach a new market with customers that are younger than forty , and you talked about that before . and uh a last point , but also very important , our corporate image should stay recognisable in our products , which means that our uh corporate colour and slogan must be implemented in the new design . so we have to keep that in mind . um well uh according to our agenda it 's then time to take a decision on the remote control functions . so , who has any idea about what should be on it , and what should n't ? user interface : well you said it should only uh work with one appliance ? marketing : be television . user interface : or with one uh d che only the tv ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . only be used for television . user interface : and the video also , or not uh ? project manager : well it says only for television here , huh . marketing : only the television . user interface : oh . alright . okay . project manager : makes it a lot easier , huh ? user interface : yeah . marketing : so yeah , then you can yeah . requirements , no ? functions . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then it should have uh on , off , industrial designer : yeah for user interface : and uh industrial designer : standby options , marketing : yeah , the basics then by a volume , channel , one till two zero numbers on it , industrial designer : yeah ? uh yeah . user interface : yeah . and per perhaps uh marketing : oh teletext does n't have to be ? um other functions . user interface : well uh uh yes yes s sh a button where you can uh change from one number to two numbers . marketing : yeah i had industrial designer : two s two two digits , marketing : yeah , yeah . user interface : can you industrial designer : oh okay . user interface : do n't know if that 's got a name , industrial designer : yeah i understand what you mean . yeah . user interface : but marketing : i think it 's i think it 's easy to implement a button with a s s what which especially do that , because some tvs , if you press the t one and then the two , it be between five secs it make twelve , industrial designer : it makes it twelve , yeah . user interface : yeah . s industrial designer : indeed . okay . marketing : and that 's that 's not relaxed industrial designer : well , not really marketing : to user . industrial designer : and and there are some models that do n't uh accommodate that function . so marketing : yeah . industrial designer : d uh wh the philip 's television makes it possible in that indeed to uh press one and then two to make uh the uh tj to reach channel twelve . marketing : so that it easy and fast . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but uh all the television makes uh use of those button where you first press that button and then press two digits to uh to get marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah , so you should have that one on . </s>
<s> what was the main target age about remote control ? </s> marketing : our main targets ' age are ? were ? forty five plus , or ? user interface : mute misschien also . project manager : uh well new product should reach a market with customers that are younger than forty , and now we have current customers uh of forty plus . marketing : forties , okay because because younger people as uh younger people have now , sixteen till to twenty five age , are f eighty one percent interested in lcd screen . from twenty six to thirty five have sixty six percent , and thirty six to forty five , fifty five percent , so i think to um because on most recog remote controls um the print plate will be broken how much , two years . you have to press h very hard to go to the next channel . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : with the lcd screen it 's easier because you only have to wipe the screen to uh for fingerprint , industrial designer : yeah , we we could yeah . but i think that uh that collides with our mission to make it very cheap . marketing : and then you can use it again . industrial designer : because lcd screens are very expensive . marketing : yeah , okay . industrial designer : a touch screen uh probably uh even more . marketing : yeah but a you do n't know true . industrial designer : true , true . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : but uh well um is it possible to make an lcd screen uh , how was the information ? marketing : yeah , it only says that this perce percentage like lcd screen . because , yeah and it says that younger age between sixteen and forty five highly interesting features more critical . industrial designer : so perhaps we should we should focus on that lcd screen . </s>
<s> what did the group think about the lcd screen on the new remote control ? </s> project manager : so we 're going for an lcd screen ? user interface : yeah . would be yeah . marketing : i think it 's the most easier thing , industrial designer : that 's my uh project manager : and hoping that when we produce a lot it wo n't be too expensive . marketing : yeah . user interface : well we had twelve fifty , i guess , for uh production ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no . yeah . industrial designer : twelve fifty . marketing : industrial designer : um . user interface : any guesses ? industrial designer : marketing : industrial designer : well i suppose wi if the mar if our um if the i if the young people are interested in lcd screens , we should make 'em . marketing : highly . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and if that is our d uh market share to uh and our goal to uh deliver those uh remote controls user interface : but but he also said that we should not only focus on the younger people , but also on the older , and will they use it if it only has an lcd screen ? marketing : yeah , but um , s forty six to forty five , thirty three percent , and sixty fifty six to sixty five twelve percent . user interface : oh , so still a little bit people marketing : but our our our what 's it , project requirements are the new products should be reached for new markets , to customers that are younger than forty . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah that 's right . but you do n't want to alienate the other uh marketing : no , that not now , but , so user interface : but if they also buy it then it 's alright . i guess . marketing : yeah , but market share fro for for forty years and younger is higher than that of sixty five and younger . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . alright . project manager : okay , so lcd it is ? user interface : an yes . project manager : okay . industrial designer : mm . it 's treasure . project manager : and what else ? industrial designer : i hope we uh h and let 's hope to reach those uh those sales . marketing : yeah , i i if it yeah , if it costs gets too much , too expensive , then yeah , we should be sticking to rubber buttons . project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , can you um uh s i think that that they will send you some information about uh the cost of lcd uh screens . user interface : yeah . marketing : n nothing , no costs at all . user interface : but perhaps later , industrial designer : uh so if you uh user interface : so uh industrial designer : yeah , so if you uh you receive an email about that , uh can you post it in the or should n't we post that in uh our projects mail uh folder . marketing : yeah , in user interface : yeah . marketing : i think that should yeah i think we all get the costs of everything . user interface : i do n't industrial designer : because you are the the marketing uh expert . marketing : yeah , okay , i 'll i 'll post it . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay ? good afternoon . hope you have good lunch . industrial designer : afternoon . yeah , we had falafel . project manager : oh . nice . and you ? user interface : uh , yes , i had something similar but non-vegetarian . project manager : okay . so today is um our third meeting . it will be about the conceptual design uh . if i come back to uh the minutes of the last meetings um . we decided not to go for speech recognition technologies because of some reasons and we are not decided about u the use of lcd screen on on the remote control because of costs . so maybe we cou wi will be able to clarify this this question to today . uh at the end of the meeting we should take decision on that point . so i hope uh that your respective pr presentations uh will help us . so each of you have some presentatio presentation to perform um who starts ? marketing : okay , . project manager : so marketing . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : so you are you saved your y your presentation somewhere ? so you 're four ? marketing : four , yeah . project manager : which is trend watch . okay . mr marketing experts . marketing : yeah that 's me . project manager : so marketing : uh . well i investigate the preference more d i investigate deeper the preference of the users . uh so the the current investigation th uh th uh sorry the current the n current trends ? user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah ? okay . okay . well wha what i found um can you project manager : next slide ? yeah . marketing : yeah . thank you . what i found in order of importance from less to more important is that people want an easy to use device . after they they want something new technologic technologically speaking , but the most what they what they find more more interesting , more or more important it 's uh a fancy look and feel instead of uh instead of the current the current trend which was f the functional look and feel . industrial designer : marketing : so now more more cool aspect , ma more a cooler aspect uh rather than a device with many functions and many buttons with instead of i instead of ha of a device which can do many things , a device which is pleasant to to watch , to see . project manager : okay . marketing : uh also well in in euro in in paris and and milan the user interface : industrial designer : marketing : in paris and in paris and milan the the current trend of uh of clothes , furniture and all this all this fashion it 's it 's fruit and the the the theme is fruit and vegetables . user interface : marketing : and also in the in the u_s_a_ the the current the mor the most popular feeling it 's it 's a spongy . spongy means eponge ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : so maybe we should we should think in in this direction , so user interface : what what do you mean by fruit and vegetables and spongy ? marketing : user interface : what you mean clothe industrial designer : spongy means it it 's like sp marketing : fruit vegetables is the the new have you seen the last exposition of clothes in milan ? user interface : no , i missed that one . marketing : yeah , i i did n't miss an project manager : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : i did n't miss and i saw that the fruit , there are many fr pictures of fruits and vegetables in the clothes . user interface : oh , they 're okay so they 're not like dressed as a carrot they just have like pictures of fruit on , okay . marketing : no no , not not yet , not yet . project manager : marketing : yeah , yeah . user interface : so we 're not gon na have a remote control in the shape of of a banana , marketing : so te textu textures , yeah . user interface : just maybe marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : vegetable textures and all this kind . project manager : drawings of bananas . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : uh user interface : okay and project manager : uh-huh . marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : but what 's your suggestion how we can have some shape like that on the remote ? project manager : well so this is in the next slide certainly . marketing : uh no no , it 's not . project manager : it 's not ? user interface : marketing : it 's user interface : so which fruit are you thinking of ? marketing : and um . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : i ha i have n't thought of any particular fruit , but the general aspect of the of the remote control may may could remind some kind of vegetable , some kind of instead of vegetable , some natur mm uh natural object or something . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : but yeah it it depends on the project manager : so maybe you maybe you can display a banana on the lcd . user interface : oh , so you want the remote control to be the shape of a fruit , project manager : user interface : or you want just some kind of like fruit logo on the industrial designer : means buttons are in the shape of fruits , marketing : yeah maybe the shape the shape industrial designer : buttons are in the frape shape of fruits or something , apple , banana , something like that . marketing : no , not n not not too much focus , not too much focu not n not too s not too similar to a fruit because next year the ten the trend the trend will be different . project manager : apple for channel one . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : so we should n't be at re really attached to to the trend user interface : so something that looks half like a fruit and half like an elephant . marketing : but for instance , yeah . african or as an elephant ? industrial designer : that we can discuss afterwards . project manager : okay . user interface : but okay , marketing : user interface : i 'm not , i 'm not really sure if uh that would really appeal to everyone though , maybe just to fashion gurus , like maybe just like a little bit n a little fruit picture somewhere in the corner , but i do n't know about uh i dunno how ergonomic a , an orange is . marketing : well ma maybe we we should further specify what target are we focusing . i think in my opinion we should focus on on young people because they are more open to new devi new devices user interface : to fruit ? marketing : and also yeah according to the marketing report ninety p ninety five percent of young people was was was able to to buy a a n a cooler remote control . user interface : but is it uh is fruit cool ? marketing : what ? project manager : that 's a question . marketing : what ? user interface : is fruit cool ? marketing : yeah ? uh is the new trend of the user interface : well i guess , you know , apple has the ipod so , imagi marketing : user interface : just 'cause they have an apple on their on their product , does n't mean fruit is cool . marketing : no i think we we should think about a a shape with it a device with a shape of some user interface : okay , but it has to be easy to uh to use though and to hold you know , you do n't wan na pear or a watermelon . marketing : yeah . don do n't you think we can find uh the shape of a fruit which is handy to use ? user interface : well , probably the only thing is a banana that i can think of , industrial designer : banana . user interface : a cucumber . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe too long . user interface : i dunno . maybe . too green . marketing : maybe . project manager : user interface : so , but i mean you also have to you have to also have , fit r all the buttons and you know . project manager : a banana . marketing : um user interface : it 's , it marketing : yeah . user interface : the thing is you have t normally with um with buttons , they have to be at some point attached to a circuit board so if you 're gon na have things like on a cylindrical kind of device it may be difficult to kind of to build . project manager : industrial designer : i do n't th it will be rolling a lot . marketing : yeah but i li i like your idea that we should n't have a lot of buttons b buttons so project manager : okay . yeah and you you you will not have pla enough a lot of place to put a lcd on a banana also . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh do you want a an lcd with twenty five euros ? project manager : well , you 're the marketing expert you should tell us if it is too much or not . user interface : well , this is marketing : i think well , according to the to the report people are more interested in in a fa fancy look and feel and in a technological inno in innovation , project manager : marketing : so , i will give more importance to the look and feel than rather than the project manager : so so you you you suggest to go f marketing : new inputs and also it 's i 'm not convinced about this lcd because you need uh internet connection , you need more things , it 's not just buying a new control re remote , you need buying control remote , buying uh project manager : okay . s so you 're simply marketing : more things . it 's not so simple . project manager : you 're simply looking s to a remote control that looks like a banana with few buttons with only a few buttons . marketing : for instance , yeah . yeah for for for given an an example yeah . project manager : okay good . so maybe you can go ahead ? marketing : yeah no , it 's what i already said . project manager : okay . thanks . um . okay , i 'll give the floor . so you are user interface guy . so you 're three ? user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : and it 's this one . go for it . user interface : yep . okay . so . s next uh slide . okay . so i received an email um around lunchtime letting me know that the brilliant minds at our technology division had developed an integrated programmable sample sensor sample speaker unit , um which is a way for you to have a conversation with your coffee machine and or remote control . industrial designer : but it 's just a speaker right ? user interface : it 's no , what it is , it 's it 's very industrial designer : it 's not a microphone . user interface : it has a has a microphone , has a speaker , it 's got a little chip and it allows you t industrial designer : mm-hmm . actually i 'm not reading microphone there , so that 's why you can all have conversation , it just to speak to you . user interface : well , it 's a sample sensor sample speaker . sample sensor sample speaker . it means that it can recognize , it can do like a match on a on a certain phrase that you speak and then can play back a phrase in response to that . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : but uh there 's no kind of um understanding of the phrase . so , i mean , you know , industrial designer : okay . user interface : i guess you could build that in , you could you could link the the recognition of a certain phrase to some function on on the remote control . industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : but basically the thing is , we have this technology available industrial designer : in-house . user interface : in-house . so , um industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : but the thing is obviously there 's still gon na be a cost if you decided to integrate that because you still have to pay for the c production of the components , industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : so um it it but it basically means we c we can kind of consider this from uh you know uh a theoretical or usability kind of viewpoint without worrying too much about you know how to develop it because we have this already done . industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : whilst you know , some people might get annoyed if we uh if we just dump it , project manager : i there 's something that i unclear really understanding . is this a technology that recognize keywords speech keywords ? user interface : it 's it it 's no , well , it 's it 'll recognize uh i guess keywords , but you know keywords in a certain order like a phrase . you train it for a certain uh , for a certain phrase , you say the the example they said that they have uh up and running with their prototype is um well they 've actually integrated into the into the the coffee machine that uh that we 're producing is , you can say good morning to the coffee machine and it can recognize that phrase and it 'll playback good morning , how would you like your coffee ? project manager : and it 's just to , it 's just to playback something ? user interface : yeah . so actually that was a bad example , 'cause it does n't actually ask how do you want your coffee because it ca n't really understand the response , so . project manager : yeah yeah . so this is not s really to do to to do control . user interface : only , like , only in the sense that it it can recognize a set a set target kind of word an project manager : yeah . this is just more like a poi pois yeah . user interface : it 's designed it 's designed as a fun kind of thing , project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : but i guess you could use it as uh as a way to implement uh project manager : so it it 's c uh it it marketing : yeah but you can u project manager : it is a uh uh easy uh a fancy thing that you you can bring to we can bring to the remote control that will not have any uh user interface : completely pointless yeah . project manager : yeah comp completely pointless for the inter for from the interaction point of v point of view . user interface : yeah . yeah , unless you know , you like having conversation with your remote control . project manager : okay . user interface : marketing : yeah but the can we use it for saying okay , channel fifty , channel twenty ? user interface : well yeah , that 's the thing , if you can but you have to pro though i think it 's a fairly simple design so you would have to record into the device every possible combination , you have to s tr train it to l to learn channel fifteen , that whole thing , not just the word channel and the word fifteen , it does n't have that kind of logic in it . project manager : yeah yeah . so this is so this is this is much more than tak taking this technology , bringing it to the remote control and using it . user interface : so industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , that would be some development work . project manager : so this is out of discussion . so if if if it is something that you can we can bring easily and to put it into the banana remote control user interface : yeah . marketing : m mando . user interface : banana-mando . project manager : no this is mm banana-bando , yeah . user interface : banana-man marketing : banana-mando yeah . project manager : uh then it could be cool yeah . marketing : project manager : user interface : industrial designer : yeah okay , let 's go ahead . project manager : okay . user interface : i uh i i i do n't think it 's worth it though , i think it does n't really add much to the functional design and it 's it 's it 's not mature enough to use as a speech recognition engine , so project manager : okay . user interface : um , yeah . so if we can just move on to the next slide , i 've just done a quick mock-up of uh uh some of the features of our potential funky-looking uh remote control marketing : project manager : it does n't look like a banana at all . user interface : well , you see , i was i was unaware at this point of th of the fruit focus , project manager : yeah . user interface : um , so at the moment it 's more of a box focus . project manager : but you you can fit i you 're saying now you can fit it to marketing : looks like a tr look likes a a tro a tropical fruit . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , well , this is actu this could be a genetically engineered fruit that 's designed to be you know square so that it packs tighter in the boxes . marketing : yeah . user interface : but um , i 've just indicated here , we could have actually two scroll wheels , 'cause i think the scroll wheel is a fairly um key part of , you know , industrial designer : stable thing , that 's right . to have , user interface : i think everyone has has agreed that it 's that it could be quite a useful um thing , so . industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : but i think it 's important , you know , to have two scroll wheels because , you know , you want one for for the channel , but you also want one for for the volume , because it 's it 's the volume i it 's , you know it 's very handy for it to have uh instant kind of uh feedback uh and response , so . industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : but um , i 've also included this turbo button because i think , you know , every design should have a turbo button , and well marketing : what 's a turbo button ? user interface : so this is you know , a unique problem with with televisions is that if you have this scro this scroll wheel for the television , the uh the tuner on the tv is not gon na be able to to switch between stations as fast as you can scroll , so you know , the th the person might want to have a uh might want to be able to scroll past television stations without seeing what 's on them , in which case it just waits until you stop scrolling and then , you know , displays that station . or they might want to scroll and and have a quick glimpse of it , even if it lags behind what they 're doing . marketing : it con it controls the speed ? user interface : yeah , so with this turbo button you can , say , skip over t channels if uh , you know , if i 'm if i 'm going if i 'm scrolling past them and you know , it 's um , you could have a little red light that comes up when they press it so they feel you know it 's really going fast or whatever . project manager : user interface : so yeah , that 's um , those are the two important uh features i think we need on the remote , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : but i mean we can discuss about what other kind of buttons we need , um . you know , i it could be , you know , if we if we wan na have like a very cheap kind of device , i mean , we could either consider that maybe we want to sell this as a very , if it 's gon na be a banana , you know that 's a pretty gimmicky kind of thing that does n't have that much functionality , it 's just you know a couple of scroll wheels and a button cause it 's hard to get so many buttons on a banana project manager : it 's enough . user interface : and it 's still very it may even be for most for some people more functional than their current remote , but if they have these scroll wheels , so , um you know , what other buttons do we want ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean we could have well , i guess you need an on and off switch , project manager : switch on . yeah . user interface : but you could you could o you could turn it turn it on by taking the top off the banana maybe , you know , it 's kind of like a spy kind of flick thing . marketing : yeah . so sounds crazy . i like crazy ideas . user interface : that 's why you 're a marketing guru . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , of course . project manager : so i it looks like we 're going completely to forget about the lcd thing . user interface : well , that 's the thing , as have we decided that we can only spend , uh , twenty five euro ? project manager : i think that user interface : well not spend , but you know , charge twenty five euro . marketing : i i think we could use somehow the s coffee machine dialogue interface or so . project manager : no we can we ca n't use that . marketing : you we can ? we ca n't . project manager : we ca n't use that to to comman co communicate , industrial designer : communicate . project manager : it 's just a thing marketing : yeah , but we can say channel twenty five . industrial designer : it 's one way . user interface : but then you have to have a template for every channel , for a hundred channels , you have to be able to to recognize industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's not a lot one hundred templates , user interface : mm . well , i f i think it 's probably more than , than our can handle because it 's designed for a coffee machine , you know , to say hello in the morning . marketing : it 's not project manager : yeah . marketing : ah , it 's designed for a cof okay . is it design for a coffee machine ? user interface : well that 's its current application , i would presume that it 's kind of , they would n't design it to handle a hundred things th so . marketing : okay . yeah . maybe you could ask your the you could ask the engineering department if we can project manager : yeah . a good good good thing . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : you want to g to move to your slides ? user interface : but uh industrial designer : yeah , that 's right , yeah . project manager : you 're finished ? user interface : well i just i just made the point , i do n't i do n't know if that speech recognition is , you know , even if we can do it , i think it 's not really appropriate for uh television environment . project manager : yeah i think so . user interface : but um i did have one thing from a previous meeting , you were talking about um being able to find the remote control marketing : yeah . user interface : and i was talking about extendin being able to extend the remote control by having you know , a base station that can control other things as well . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : it might be useful to have some kind of base station , even if it 's just you press on a button on it and uh and the remote control starts beeping , you know , this is a way of finding the remote . y in that case maybe the maybe the speech recognition the speech thing could be useful just to say i 'm here project manager : exactly yeah . user interface : but uh it 's probably a bit of overkill if you could just have a a beeping industrial designer : so it 's a speech synthesis kind of thing , user interface : it 's speech industrial designer : something has been uh stored and it 's just uh spoken out . user interface : it 's it 's speech synthesis and s it 's speech kind of , not really speech recognition , but kind of pattern matching , yeah industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : oh , good idea . industrial designer : yeah . that 's right . project manager : very good . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , let 's move on . so you 're two ? industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so this is going to be about the component design . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so first thing is we need power source for the remote control . so i was of the idea that we can have two kind of power supplies , one is the usual batteries which are there , they could be chargeable batteries if there 's a basis station kind of thing and on top of that we can have solar cells , when the lighting conditions are good they can be used so it 'll be pretty uh innovative kind . then uh we need plastic with some elasticity so that if your if the remote control falls it 's not broken directly into pieces , there should be some flexibility in t user interface : i guess that fits in with the spongy kind of design philosophy . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so there should we should think of something like that and then it should be double curve . the s science for the ease of handling and there are some other issues why we need double curve . then controls for the traditionals u traditional users we can have the push buttons so that they do n't feel that it 's an alien thing for them . user interface : so , just one second , when you say double curve , what do you actually mean ? you reckon you could like draw us a thing on the , on the whiteboard 'cause i 'm not sure industrial designer : double curve is , you have curves on both the sides if i 'm right . so it 's symmetrical kind of thing , whatever it is . user interface : okay , but like , kind of convex or concave ? industrial designer : so , it could be curve , so it could be convex , conve concave , depending on what what we want . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : user interface : okay . industrial designer : so there are flats , there are single curve and there are double curves . user interface : okay . industrial designer : these are the three things , and there are different materials , with plastic you can have double curve but with uh certain other materials we can not have double curve . so there there was uh there were many other materials like wood , titanium and all those things , but plastic is i think is the most appropriate one , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it 'll bring the cost down user interface : although , you know , wood could be uh quite a stylish uh option , industrial designer : and anyway it 's user interface : if you take like , nice quality kind of wood that 's got a nice grain and you kind of put some , some varnish on . project manager : mm but i but there is no elasticity which could be industrial designer : wooden cases user interface : well it depends , i mean , you have the outs the wood itself is not gon na break so you do n't have to worry too much about the case being broken , project manager : yeah but the components inside . user interface : it 's the inside . yeah but inside you know you could have you can still have some kind of cushioning that 's not visible to the to the user . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : very too expensive to do . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : and also uh user interface : and i mean you could also , you can have just a very thin veneer of wood as well . project manager : yeah but it 's more easier to do a banana in plastic than uh in wood . user interface : that 's true , but are we set on the banana idea ? industrial designer : project manager : well it look like marketing : actually project manager : it looks like you are all targeting that marketing : i was thinking that the user interface : project manager : yeah ? marketing : the shape of a banana is not it 's not really handy . project manager : yes it is . marketing : uh i do n't know the name o o in english uh this industrial designer : is it an e apple which has marketing : it 's not a fruit it 's a vegetable . user interface : it 's like a pumpkin or project manager : yeah ? pumpkin . marketing : green . project manager : green . user interface : green . project manager : um um um , yes i see . user interface : what does it taste like ? marketing : and you put in the salad . project manager : pep pepperoni . user interface : ah yeah , is it what 's it in french ? project manager : poivron . marketing : oui c'est ca user interface : yeah , okay , so capsicum or pepper . yeah . project manager : uh pepper . marketing : pepper . project manager : but um they do d marketing : and it 's al it also suits with the double curve for easy of project manager : yeah . user interface : i do n't know , it seems a little bit kind of bulky to me , like project manager : yeah . marketing : no , i mean in a project manager : it 's not re it user interface : like with a banana you can have project manager : you you think it 's really fancy and fun ? you think that young people that are marketing : i 'm sure it 's fun . project manager : yeah . more than a banana ? marketing : but banana is not so handy , user interface : well industrial designer : banana is more handier as compared to this i think , and to capsicum . marketing : i think that 's handier . user interface : but like a banana you can you can be holding like this and have the scroll wheel kind of on top project manager : yeah . user interface : and just roll it back and forth like that , project manager : it 's kind it 's kind of it 's more uh user interface : but with uh i do n't know how you would hold a capsicum and project manager : it 's really ergonomic , it 's fit in the hand and you 've a lot of surface to to put the controls . marketing : user interface : project manager : okay let 's move on . marketing : yeah you 're right . project manager : so time is running , let 's move on . industrial designer : okay , so push buttons for the traditional users so that they do n't feel they are alienated , just and a scroll button with push technology for channel selection , volume control and teletext browsing . these are the three scroll buttons which are already available with us in the company and we we can go ahead with that . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , we can go to the next slide . then uh there are different kind of chips , one one is the basic chip and the regular chip and one an adva advanced chip . so we can have regular chip for control . pricing is a factor for us , that 's why we 'll go for the regular chip . and uh regular chip supports speaker support , so this functionality could be used for tracing the mobile phone which has been misplaced . user interface : so is that , when you say speaker support , you mean it just has some output pinned which which which kind of industrial designer : it could be a beep kind of thing . user interface : okay , but the speaker is actually attached to the to the chip in some way , or is just the the signal ? industrial designer : yes , yes , that 's right , it 's it 's onto the chip , user interface : okay . industrial designer : most most probably , not not hundred per cent sure about that . user interface : okay . so are there any issues where we place this this chip to make sure you can actually hear the the speaker from the outside of the banana ? industrial designer : that will be the volume control i think which which a user shou it it should be already pre-defined . it should be whatever will be the case , the chip is always going to be sitting inside . user interface : okay . yeah , but the speaker , if the speaker is actually on the chip , then if it 's too far away from the the casing , or if the casing is too thick , then you may not hear the the speaker . industrial designer : mm-hmm . uh , so we can have it at one of the boundaries so that things are slightly better . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : as or as hearing is concerned , we can have some gap at some place , user interface : yeah . so that 's something we have to keep in mind with the actual physical design is to keep the the speaker close enough to the outside . industrial designer : so that that 's right . okay . yeah . so these these were the component selection and these things . we can go to the next slide . and uh these were the findings which i i saw with the web web , that user wants to have control more than one device wants to control more than one device from the same remote control , so our tv remote can have little extra things to support additional devices like v_c_r_ d_v_d_ players which are usually attached with the tv , because users are like this and they do n't want to have one remote control for everything , so with this additional little , we might be having slightly better market for us . user interface : although , if it depends , if we like , if we are concentrating on like a fruit design , then maybe maybe we wan na sell a collection of fruit , you know , like a different fruit for each device . industrial designer : mm . of fruits . user interface : cause that , you know , that sometimes people like to collect um you know things that of a similar type . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : s objects . industrial designer : remotes objects , okay . project manager : crazy objects . marketing : i think that would be funny at the beginning but after one month you will be tired of be surrounded of fruits . user interface : well , you 're the one who wanted to do fruit in the first place . marketing : no but i think just one fruit to control everything . user interface : like a power fruit . marketing : a power fr a power m a mando , a supermando fruit . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : and uh as well as i could see on the web the scroll button is becoming really uh hot thing s project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and we should have it on the remote . project manager : okay , good . user interface : well marketing : actually i i did n't understand very well this trace speaker lost control . industrial designer : so you 're having a basis station . okay . your usually your remote sits on that . so you and it 's that 's why it can have chargeable batteries . now let 's say marketing : so you you have to buy two things , the banana and the basis station . project manager : bu it 's it 's . industrial designer : basis station is with the thing . project manager : you s you you thing . industrial designer : it 's like a telephone handset is there and the basis station for the telephone hand set is there . so now what user gets additionally he does n't have to buy batteries , they 're rechargeable batteries , so over the period of cor time he 'll recover the cost . so you 're having the basis station and there is a button , if you press that button wherever the remote it 'll start beeping so you know where the remote is . uh user interface : i think that 's a pretty handy feature . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : i think it 's kind of people would find that worth it even if it was n't uh a recharging station , even if they did n't have to buy extra batteries , you know . industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm , mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : so marketing : yeah but i 'm a bit worried about the budget . industrial designer : uh this is basis station is nothing more , just it 's a wire which is coming from the main cable and uh you 're having one socket on which the thing sits . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : although you do need to include r_f_ kind of circuitry in the remote . industrial designer : that 's right . but all these things are usually in-house so we do n't have much problems . so component cost is going to be the least . anyway , we are not using really advanced technology , lcd has already been ruled out , a_s_r_ has been ruled out . so it 's the basic thing but very trendy and very user-friendly . user interface : okay . i 'm just wondering actually , 'cause , you know , i this whole fruit thing with the banana , it 's um it seemed like it first seems a bit kind of uh niche , like only a few people would really want a banana , industrial designer : and user interface : but what if it was kind of uh a stylised banana ? you know , rather than having it kind of you know yellow and really looking exactly like a banana , you could make it kind of silver . and um , you know to give you kind of the idea of a banana but without it looking you know completely kitsch . for better want of a better word project manager : you think that yellow it 's kitsch . user interface : you know ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : well , you know , i don i do n't know how many peop industrial designer : marketing : project manager : if you make something that looks like a banana it should have the colour of a banana . marketing : yeah . no , i i industrial designer : a yeah , otherwise it 'll be mis means you do n't get b any feeling then . user interface : well they project manager : o otherwise marketing : maybe li like that . industrial designer : it 's neither a banana nor a user interface : yeah , like this colour this colour maybe , you know , maybe like still in the shape of a banana . project manager : roughly . user interface : no , exactly . project manager : marketing : user interface : exactly . um , but you know , just maybe maybe not exactly the same texture as a banana and just kind of , you know because the thing is it 's gon na be a little bit difficult to make um to give like the texture of a banana anyway and to k to have the exact shape . i think if you 're gon na not be able to do it properly you may as well do it in a stylised way that just looks a bit more kind of , you know , twenty first century rather than sixties or seventies . project manager : yeah . okay . let 's move on . industrial designer : and uh going to the last slide . project manager : uh uh yeah . before before st before ending the meeting i 'd like to to draw some sketch about the pro future prot prototype . user interface : okay . project manager : go for it . industrial designer : okay . project manager : well no , not not you , you can finish your slides before industrial designer : okay . okay , so . anyway , users 'll be so the findings is users 'll be very interested in our locator device to find their misplaced remotes . project manager : mm okay . industrial designer : so that was very i thought it 's a very good suggestion by everybody . project manager : okay . industrial designer : that 's it . project manager : that 's all ? okay , so mm so well done for the presentations . so we need to take some de decisions about um about what we 're going to do . user interface : project manager : so i i propose that you go to the whiteboard user interface : yeah . project manager : and we 're going to report all the ideas we had we had during this these presentations just to draw some sketch about what will be the prod final product user interface : okay . project manager : and uh where superman go banana and uh user interface : project manager : uh extra func functionalities such as wheels , um the speaker unit um well not in order not to lost the um the device , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : i do i do n't remember you call it ? industrial designer : that 's right . the basis station . that 's right . project manager : basis station , yeah . uh so um so we 're going for a stylish banana shape . user interface : yeah , so , i guess you wan na hold like the way the end of the banana you wan na kind of hold as ma you maybe wan na kinda hold like a gun rather than 'cause you do n't want it to point kind of towards the floor . project manager : yeah , right . user interface : so you know , so if you have like marketing : what about what about this shape ? more or less . industrial designer : there 's less space on this to put with the buttons . project manager : i if it i if it has really the model shape of a bana you could marketing : yeah , but how many buttons do we need ? project manager : the the starting is good but it could it should have more the shape of a banana if you want to point really a at the thing . if you do n't want to to to do that movement which is which is difficult if you do n't have to do it in fact , it 's better . so ti time is running , industrial designer : uh what about a project manager : we have to we have to we have to to move forward . so let 's skip to uh this uh this this this idea . yeah . user interface : okay , so project manager : so we have this . user interface : so project manager : we have a a basis um , how do you call it ? industrial designer : the base station . project manager : a base station . industrial designer : right . project manager : we 'll have a base station extra uh on the side . user interface : okay , so i guess we need , you know , something that can fit a banana shaped object . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : uh , we have a r_f_ for um for beeping for beeping . industrial designer : that 's right , yeah , we need that , yeah . project manager : we need b r_f_ to beep . user interface : okay , so it 's uh project manager : so we that means we need a button on th on the on the basis . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : basis station . project manager : basis station , thank you . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : alright , so we need uh okay . project manager : can you go quickly please ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . so we are going to add uh also um you as you suggested the whee some wheels to control the volumes and channels and your tur turbo turbo uh button . user interface : yeah . yeah , which i think it 's it 's probably best actually on the on the underneath of the the device , industrial designer : turbo button . project manager : yeah , on the th yeah , maybe here . user interface : so you have project manager : and the and the wheel a a at the level of the thumb for instance . user interface : yes . yeah , so you have the thumb kind of here . project manager : and and you have two wheels . user interface : so yeah , you need one one here and one on on the other side , so you got volume an and channel . project manager : okay right . good . so no lcd . user interface : and , uh no lcd . project manager : okay great . um . very good . user interface : oh we need a we need a power um on off switch as well . industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : uh for the remote ? user interface : yeah . project manager : oh , just the switch , industrial designer : remotes do n't have power on off switch . project manager : no f not for the tv for the tv . uh so you user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . s no , that 'll be controlled by the those buttons 'll be there already , yeah . marketing : what a user interface : where ? industrial designer : means on the remote . project manager : on the side . user interface : okay . industrial designer : because remote is going to have both the interfaces , scroll as well as buttons . they are not going to cost you much , everything is in-house and now you do n't want the traditional users to be apprehensive of this . user interface : well , i dunno if the traditional user is gon na buy a a banana remote in the first place , you know . industrial designer : oh , yeah . that 's that 's another issue which i did n't think of . user interface : y i mean you need to kind of keep it um industrial designer : but you know our targets are very high , means fifty million euros is the profit which we want make . marketing : what about user interface : yeah , how many of these did we wan na sell ? i ca n't remember , industrial designer : twenty five . project manager : twenty five . industrial designer : twelve point five is the profit on one . marketing : user interface : yeah , but how many units did we need to to sell ? industrial designer : uh forty th four . point point four million ? marketing : four millions ? user interface : four point four million . industrial designer : point four million . user interface : that 's a lot of fruit . industrial designer : in the market . user interface : marketing : what about a project manager : yeah . so . well . no . time is running , we have to close the meeting in a few minutes . user interface : okay . project manager : so , okay , the next step , you can come back to your seat . user interface : okay . project manager : the next step is to go for to f is to go to uh to building a prototype , based on this , okay ? user interface : okay . project manager : so next meeting you guys have to prepare the followi things . you have to uh work on the look and feel uh design and you have to work on the user interface , in fact you two you have to work together to model the first uh f first prototype . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : uh marketing expert uh have to go to product evaluation . user interface : project manager : okay ? marketing : i wo what about adding the this word spotting , keyword spotting recognition saying volume up volume down ? project manager : it 's too difficult . marketing : it 's too difficult but people like innovation and that 's really uh innovative and i do n't know if it would cost a lot , just a few five words . project manager : it 's not a possi it will not be possible to implement it for the next prototype , so t it 's in the next prototype so let 's skip it . marketing : okay . industrial designer : for the future prototypes . project manager : yeah , maybe , for the n if if if it it works well , we 'll go for uh an orange one . user interface : that can be the t that can be like the turbo banana plus plus commando . industrial designer : project manager : yeah yeah , honour the fruit . marketing : plus plus , okay . maybe objective banana ? project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : thanks very much . we 'll see n next meeting . bye . user interface : okay . industrial designer : so meeting 's over ? user interface : yep . we have to go design the prototype . industrial designer : okay . okay . okay . thank you . project manager : thank you . marketing : thank you . </s>
<s> ummarize the group discussion about the presentation on the preference of users . </s> project manager : okay . so today is um our third meeting . it will be about the conceptual design uh . if i come back to uh the minutes of the last meetings um . we decided not to go for speech recognition technologies because of some reasons and we are not decided about u the use of lcd screen on on the remote control because of costs . so maybe we cou wi will be able to clarify this this question to today . uh at the end of the meeting we should take decision on that point . so i hope uh that your respective pr presentations uh will help us . so each of you have some presentatio presentation to perform um who starts ? marketing : okay , . project manager : so marketing . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : so you are you saved your y your presentation somewhere ? so you 're four ? marketing : four , yeah . project manager : which is trend watch . okay . mr marketing experts . marketing : yeah that 's me . project manager : so marketing : uh . well i investigate the preference more d i investigate deeper the preference of the users . uh so the the current investigation th uh th uh sorry the current the n current trends ? user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah ? okay . okay . well wha what i found um can you project manager : next slide ? yeah . marketing : yeah . thank you . what i found in order of importance from less to more important is that people want an easy to use device . after they they want something new technologic technologically speaking , but the most what they what they find more more interesting , more or more important it 's uh a fancy look and feel instead of uh instead of the current the current trend which was f the functional look and feel . industrial designer : marketing : so now more more cool aspect , ma more a cooler aspect uh rather than a device with many functions and many buttons with instead of i instead of ha of a device which can do many things , a device which is pleasant to to watch , to see . project manager : okay . marketing : uh also well in in euro in in paris and and milan the user interface : industrial designer : marketing : in paris and in paris and milan the the current trend of uh of clothes , furniture and all this all this fashion it 's it 's fruit and the the the theme is fruit and vegetables . user interface : marketing : and also in the in the u_s_a_ the the current the mor the most popular feeling it 's it 's a spongy . spongy means eponge ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : so maybe we should we should think in in this direction , so user interface : what what do you mean by fruit and vegetables and spongy ? marketing : user interface : what you mean clothe industrial designer : spongy means it it 's like sp marketing : fruit vegetables is the the new have you seen the last exposition of clothes in milan ? user interface : no , i missed that one . marketing : yeah , i i did n't miss an project manager : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : i did n't miss and i saw that the fruit , there are many fr pictures of fruits and vegetables in the clothes . user interface : oh , they 're okay so they 're not like dressed as a carrot they just have like pictures of fruit on , okay . marketing : no no , not not yet , not yet . project manager : marketing : yeah , yeah . user interface : so we 're not gon na have a remote control in the shape of of a banana , marketing : so te textu textures , yeah . user interface : just maybe marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : vegetable textures and all this kind . project manager : drawings of bananas . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : uh user interface : okay and project manager : uh-huh . marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : but what 's your suggestion how we can have some shape like that on the remote ? project manager : well so this is in the next slide certainly . marketing : uh no no , it 's not . project manager : it 's not ? user interface : marketing : it 's user interface : so which fruit are you thinking of ? marketing : and um . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : i ha i have n't thought of any particular fruit , but the general aspect of the of the remote control may may could remind some kind of vegetable , some kind of instead of vegetable , some natur mm uh natural object or something . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : but yeah it it depends on the project manager : so maybe you maybe you can display a banana on the lcd . user interface : oh , so you want the remote control to be the shape of a fruit , project manager : user interface : or you want just some kind of like fruit logo on the industrial designer : means buttons are in the shape of fruits , marketing : yeah maybe the shape the shape industrial designer : buttons are in the frape shape of fruits or something , apple , banana , something like that . marketing : no , not n not not too much focus , not too much focu not n not too s not too similar to a fruit because next year the ten the trend the trend will be different . project manager : apple for channel one . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : so we should n't be at re really attached to to the trend user interface : so something that looks half like a fruit and half like an elephant . marketing : but for instance , yeah . african or as an elephant ? industrial designer : that we can discuss afterwards . project manager : okay . user interface : but okay , marketing : user interface : i 'm not , i 'm not really sure if uh that would really appeal to everyone though , maybe just to fashion gurus , like maybe just like a little bit n a little fruit picture somewhere in the corner , but i do n't know about uh i dunno how ergonomic a , an orange is . marketing : well ma maybe we we should further specify what target are we focusing . i think in my opinion we should focus on on young people because they are more open to new devi new devices user interface : to fruit ? marketing : and also yeah according to the marketing report ninety p ninety five percent of young people was was was able to to buy a a n a cooler remote control . user interface : but is it uh is fruit cool ? marketing : what ? project manager : that 's a question . marketing : what ? user interface : is fruit cool ? marketing : yeah ? uh is the new trend of the user interface : well i guess , you know , apple has the ipod so , imagi marketing : user interface : just 'cause they have an apple on their on their product , does n't mean fruit is cool . marketing : no i think we we should think about a a shape with it a device with a shape of some user interface : okay , but it has to be easy to uh to use though and to hold you know , you do n't wan na pear or a watermelon . marketing : yeah . don do n't you think we can find uh the shape of a fruit which is handy to use ? user interface : well , probably the only thing is a banana that i can think of , industrial designer : banana . user interface : a cucumber . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe too long . user interface : i dunno . maybe . too green . marketing : maybe . project manager : user interface : so , but i mean you also have to you have to also have , fit r all the buttons and you know . project manager : a banana . marketing : um user interface : it 's , it marketing : yeah . user interface : the thing is you have t normally with um with buttons , they have to be at some point attached to a circuit board so if you 're gon na have things like on a cylindrical kind of device it may be difficult to kind of to build . project manager : industrial designer : i do n't th it will be rolling a lot . marketing : yeah but i li i like your idea that we should n't have a lot of buttons b buttons so project manager : okay . yeah and you you you will not have pla enough a lot of place to put a lcd on a banana also . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh do you want a an lcd with twenty five euros ? project manager : well , you 're the marketing expert you should tell us if it is too much or not . user interface : well , this is marketing : i think well , according to the to the report people are more interested in in a fa fancy look and feel and in a technological inno in innovation , project manager : marketing : so , i will give more importance to the look and feel than rather than the project manager : so so you you you suggest to go f marketing : new inputs and also it 's i 'm not convinced about this lcd because you need uh internet connection , you need more things , it 's not just buying a new control re remote , you need buying control remote , buying uh project manager : okay . s so you 're simply marketing : more things . it 's not so simple . project manager : you 're simply looking s to a remote control that looks like a banana with few buttons with only a few buttons . marketing : for instance , yeah . yeah for for for given an an example yeah . project manager : okay good . so maybe you can go ahead ? </s>
<s> what did group mates think of a cool fruit when discussing the preference of users ? </s> marketing : well ma maybe we we should further specify what target are we focusing . i think in my opinion we should focus on on young people because they are more open to new devi new devices user interface : to fruit ? marketing : and also yeah according to the marketing report ninety p ninety five percent of young people was was was able to to buy a a n a cooler remote control . user interface : but is it uh is fruit cool ? marketing : what ? project manager : that 's a question . marketing : what ? user interface : is fruit cool ? marketing : yeah ? uh is the new trend of the user interface : well i guess , you know , apple has the ipod so , imagi marketing : user interface : just 'cause they have an apple on their on their product , does n't mean fruit is cool . marketing : no i think we we should think about a a shape with it a device with a shape of some user interface : okay , but it has to be easy to uh to use though and to hold you know , you do n't wan na pear or a watermelon . marketing : yeah . don do n't you think we can find uh the shape of a fruit which is handy to use ? user interface : well , probably the only thing is a banana that i can think of , industrial designer : banana . user interface : a cucumber . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe too long . user interface : i dunno . maybe . too green . marketing : maybe . project manager : user interface : so , but i mean you also have to you have to also have , fit r all the buttons and you know . project manager : a banana . marketing : um user interface : it 's , it marketing : yeah . user interface : the thing is you have t normally with um with buttons , they have to be at some point attached to a circuit board so if you 're gon na have things like on a cylindrical kind of device it may be difficult to kind of to build . project manager : industrial designer : i do n't th it will be rolling a lot . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the technology that could recognize speech keywords when discussing the sample sensor speaker ? </s> project manager : i there 's something that i unclear really understanding . is this a technology that recognize keywords speech keywords ? user interface : it 's it it 's no , well , it 's it 'll recognize uh i guess keywords , but you know keywords in a certain order like a phrase . you train it for a certain uh , for a certain phrase , you say the the example they said that they have uh up and running with their prototype is um well they 've actually integrated into the into the the coffee machine that uh that we 're producing is , you can say good morning to the coffee machine and it can recognize that phrase and it 'll playback good morning , how would you like your coffee ? project manager : and it 's just to , it 's just to playback something ? user interface : yeah . so actually that was a bad example , 'cause it does n't actually ask how do you want your coffee because it ca n't really understand the response , so . project manager : yeah yeah . so this is not s really to do to to do control . user interface : only , like , only in the sense that it it can recognize a set a set target kind of word an project manager : yeah . this is just more like a poi pois yeah . user interface : it 's designed it 's designed as a fun kind of thing , project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : but i guess you could use it as uh as a way to implement uh project manager : so it it 's c uh it it marketing : yeah but you can u project manager : it is a uh uh easy uh a fancy thing that you you can bring to we can bring to the remote control that will not have any uh user interface : completely pointless yeah . project manager : yeah comp completely pointless for the inter for from the interaction point of v point of view . user interface : yeah . yeah , unless you know , you like having conversation with your remote control . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about the turbo button when discussing the scroll wheel . </s> user interface : but um , i 've just indicated here , we could have actually two scroll wheels , 'cause i think the scroll wheel is a fairly um key part of , you know , industrial designer : stable thing , that 's right . to have , user interface : i think everyone has has agreed that it 's that it could be quite a useful um thing , so . industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : but i think it 's important , you know , to have two scroll wheels because , you know , you want one for for the channel , but you also want one for for the volume , because it 's it 's the volume i it 's , you know it 's very handy for it to have uh instant kind of uh feedback uh and response , so . industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : but um , i 've also included this turbo button because i think , you know , every design should have a turbo button , and well marketing : what 's a turbo button ? user interface : so this is you know , a unique problem with with televisions is that if you have this scro this scroll wheel for the television , the uh the tuner on the tv is not gon na be able to to switch between stations as fast as you can scroll , so you know , the th the person might want to have a uh might want to be able to scroll past television stations without seeing what 's on them , in which case it just waits until you stop scrolling and then , you know , displays that station . or they might want to scroll and and have a quick glimpse of it , even if it lags behind what they 're doing . marketing : it con it controls the speed ? user interface : yeah , so with this turbo button you can , say , skip over t channels if uh , you know , if i 'm if i 'm going if i 'm scrolling past them and you know , it 's um , you could have a little red light that comes up when they press it so they feel you know it 's really going fast or whatever . project manager : user interface : so yeah , that 's um , those are the two important uh features i think we need on the remote , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : but i mean we can discuss about what other kind of buttons we need , um . you know , i it could be , you know , if we if we wan na have like a very cheap kind of device , i mean , we could either consider that maybe we want to sell this as a very , if it 's gon na be a banana , you know that 's a pretty gimmicky kind of thing that does n't have that much functionality , it 's just you know a couple of scroll wheels and a button cause it 's hard to get so many buttons on a banana project manager : it 's enough . user interface : and it 's still very it may even be for most for some people more functional than their current remote , but if they have these scroll wheels , so , um you know , what other buttons do we want ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean we could have well , i guess you need an on and off switch , project manager : switch on . yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the conclusion on the prototype . </s> project manager : okay , so mm so well done for the presentations . so we need to take some de decisions about um about what we 're going to do . user interface : project manager : so i i propose that you go to the whiteboard user interface : yeah . project manager : and we 're going to report all the ideas we had we had during this these presentations just to draw some sketch about what will be the prod final product user interface : okay . project manager : and uh where superman go banana and uh user interface : project manager : uh extra func functionalities such as wheels , um the speaker unit um well not in order not to lost the um the device , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : i do i do n't remember you call it ? industrial designer : that 's right . the basis station . that 's right . project manager : basis station , yeah . uh so um so we 're going for a stylish banana shape . user interface : yeah , so , i guess you wan na hold like the way the end of the banana you wan na kind of hold as ma you maybe wan na kinda hold like a gun rather than 'cause you do n't want it to point kind of towards the floor . project manager : yeah , right . user interface : so you know , so if you have like marketing : what about what about this shape ? more or less . industrial designer : there 's less space on this to put with the buttons . project manager : i if it i if it has really the model shape of a bana you could marketing : yeah , but how many buttons do we need ? project manager : the the starting is good but it could it should have more the shape of a banana if you want to point really a at the thing . if you do n't want to to to do that movement which is which is difficult if you do n't have to do it in fact , it 's better . so ti time is running , industrial designer : uh what about a project manager : we have to we have to we have to to move forward . so let 's skip to uh this uh this this this idea . yeah . user interface : okay , so project manager : so we have this . user interface : so project manager : we have a a basis um , how do you call it ? industrial designer : the base station . project manager : a base station . industrial designer : right . project manager : we 'll have a base station extra uh on the side . user interface : okay , so i guess we need , you know , something that can fit a banana shaped object . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : uh , we have a r_f_ for um for beeping for beeping . industrial designer : that 's right , yeah , we need that , yeah . project manager : we need b r_f_ to beep . user interface : okay , so it 's uh project manager : so we that means we need a button on th on the on the basis . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : basis station . project manager : basis station , thank you . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : alright , so we need uh okay . project manager : can you go quickly please ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . so we are going to add uh also um you as you suggested the whee some wheels to control the volumes and channels and your tur turbo turbo uh button . user interface : yeah . yeah , which i think it 's it 's probably best actually on the on the underneath of the the device , industrial designer : turbo button . project manager : yeah , on the th yeah , maybe here . user interface : so you have project manager : and the and the wheel a a at the level of the thumb for instance . user interface : yes . yeah , so you have the thumb kind of here . project manager : and and you have two wheels . user interface : so yeah , you need one one here and one on on the other side , so you got volume an and channel . project manager : okay right . good . so no lcd . user interface : and , uh no lcd . project manager : okay great . um . very good . user interface : oh we need a we need a power um on off switch as well . industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : uh for the remote ? user interface : yeah . project manager : oh , just the switch , industrial designer : remotes do n't have power on off switch . project manager : no f not for the tv for the tv . uh so you user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . s no , that 'll be controlled by the those buttons 'll be there already , yeah . marketing : what a user interface : where ? industrial designer : means on the remote . project manager : on the side . user interface : okay . industrial designer : because remote is going to have both the interfaces , scroll as well as buttons . they are not going to cost you much , everything is in-house and now you do n't want the traditional users to be apprehensive of this . user interface : well , i dunno if the traditional user is gon na buy a a banana remote in the first place , you know . industrial designer : oh , yeah . that 's that 's another issue which i did n't think of . user interface : y i mean you need to kind of keep it um industrial designer : but you know our targets are very high , means fifty million euros is the profit which we want make . marketing : what about user interface : yeah , how many of these did we wan na sell ? i ca n't remember , industrial designer : twenty five . project manager : twenty five . industrial designer : twelve point five is the profit on one . marketing : user interface : yeah , but how many units did we need to to sell ? industrial designer : uh forty th four . point point four million ? marketing : four millions ? user interface : four point four million . industrial designer : point four million . user interface : that 's a lot of fruit . industrial designer : in the market . user interface : marketing : what about a project manager : yeah . so . well . no . time is running , we have to close the meeting in a few minutes . user interface : okay . project manager : so , okay , the next step , you can come back to your seat . user interface : okay . project manager : the next step is to go for to f is to go to uh to building a prototype , based on this , okay ? user interface : okay . project manager : so next meeting you guys have to prepare the followi things . you have to uh work on the look and feel uh design and you have to work on the user interface , in fact you two you have to work together to model the first uh f first prototype . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : uh marketing expert uh have to go to product evaluation . user interface : project manager : okay ? marketing : i wo what about adding the this word spotting , keyword spotting recognition saying volume up volume down ? project manager : it 's too difficult . marketing : it 's too difficult but people like innovation and that 's really uh innovative and i do n't know if it would cost a lot , just a few five words . project manager : it 's not a possi it will not be possible to implement it for the next prototype , so t it 's in the next prototype so let 's skip it . marketing : okay . industrial designer : for the future prototypes . project manager : yeah , maybe , for the n if if if it it works well , we 'll go for uh an orange one . user interface : that can be the t that can be like the turbo banana plus plus commando . industrial designer : project manager : yeah yeah , honour the fruit . marketing : plus plus , okay . maybe objective banana ? project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : thanks very much . we 'll see n next meeting . bye . user interface : okay . industrial designer : so meeting 's over ? user interface : yep . we have to go design the prototype . industrial designer : okay . okay . okay . thank you . project manager : thank you . marketing : thank you . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> user interface : industrial designer : okay . yeah . that 's okay . that 's okay . marketing : industrial designer : okay . project manager : am i starting now ? anytime ? oh sorry . 'kay , um . alright , welcome back fro to the second meeting . and um i hope you had a productive last thirty minutes . user interface : project manager : um , and um , i 'll be taking minutes on this one , and um being hooked up to the powerpoint for this meeting is n't very necessary for uh myself , because it 'll be more about uh , what you guys are bringing to the meeting today . um , so , the first presentation we 'll be looking at is poppy 's presentation . and , um so , sorry ? so , um , take it away poppy . industrial designer : okay . um , do i need to project manager : it 's , it 's plugged in . so , um industrial designer : plugged in . user interface : f_ eight , w . function f_ eight . industrial designer : f_ okay . function f_ eight . sorry about this guys . project manager : no problem . industrial designer : 'kay . is on . right . okay . i will take this time just to apologise . user interface : industrial designer : i , i only , uh , received my emails later on . 'cause i was too busy carried away doing my own thing , marketing : industrial designer : which is not obviously not a very good part of a team-working thing . user interface : industrial designer : but there we go . project manager : i 'm sure it 's fine . industrial designer : um , so i was looking at how we 're going to go about the working design , and what we actually need to do , and what the remote control needs to do . and it needs to um allow a person to have a portable desi device , so they can control the television from wherever they are . they do n't need to actually manually touch the television set . so , it gives them much more flexibility , and allows them to be where they want to be . um , from uh , on a functional side of things , we found out that wh from our previous meeting , we decided that there 're certain points that will make our product unique . um , one is the visibility in the dark , which was um genevieve 's idea . so we need to think about how we could bring this in um technically . and we could use illuminated buttons , which we are all familiar with when we 're using a mobile phone , or um something fam familiar . a automatically , um lights up at first touch . or we could use fluorescent materials which would just um take in the light during the day , and then as soon as they go off they would glow in the dark . um , also we could use um an alarm . so if we lost the um remote control , perhaps there could be a button on the television set itself , which you could press , and then an alarm from the handset would sound where it was , hopefully in the room . maybe behind a cushion or somewhere . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : um , so that would work . um , oop . go back there . um , another thing i think we d missed out on on the last meeting was the fact that we should consider the environmental impact of our design . um , from previous researches i 've carried out on other projects , um we 've learnt about smart materials where um um specific alloys of metals have a shape memory . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : so they can be heated and um and cooled , and they change the shape of um the metal . so , for example , a screw that 's holding something together could expand and it would force all the components apart . so um , the benefits of this for our product would be that when it came to the end of its product life , if it was heated , um everything would spring apart . so , all the um individual components could be easily separated , and then some could be reused , some could be recycled , and i think that would be very important for products now . especially 'cause there 's much uh responsibility for all the um companies who are coming up with like new designs . 'cause all , we all know that our resources are being limited , and we have to be very environmentally conscious . project manager : right , um , one question . this , um , self-destructible uh metal , it allows for recycling materials ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so that , um , someone could have this product for as long as they felt that they wanted it , and then once they contribute it , then that company can break down the part , the parts better ? industrial designer : um and then yeah . yeah they would , um you would make the , the product as you normally would , apart from the , the bits that hold it all together would be made out of this shape-memory alloy . and that 's the part that would um allow all the other parts to be separated at the end . i mean , the user would return the p product to the company , 'cause it 's the product 's responsibility to get rid of what they 've made . um , and then the company could then just use , make use of this shape-memory alloys to split up the components , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and then either reuse some bits , and other bits which are obviously gon na wear out with time , or not usable , they might be like be able to put into scrap metal . something like the case , if it 's scratched or something , you would want to reuse it , but you might be able to melt it down and reuse it again somewhere else . project manager : mm-hmm . would we be the company that would break down these , or uh metals ? or would we contribute to another group ? industrial designer : you could we could probably empl em employ a , a side company or something to do that for us . but it would be our responsibility to get that done and to dispose of the products that we made . for a certain percentage at least . project manager : alright . industrial designer : not every , not a hundred percent of everything we produce , project manager : okay . this sounds like a really great idea . industrial designer : but project manager : one thing we have to consider is our uh one hundred percent um turnover goal that we have for our financial sector . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : um , so we 'll have to investigate how much that will cost us , cost the company , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um 'cause it sounds very labour-intensive . you would have to hire a number of people , and it might be more expensive . industrial designer : well i the fact of the shape-memory alloys is that they , they do n't need to be manually de um deconstructed . like , you do n't have to individually um unscrew all the screws . because of this , their properties are smart material . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : all you need is just the heat , so they self-destruct themselves . project manager : alright . we 'll still have to investigate the financial implications . industrial designer : so i suppose it does need like high contact , yeah , you know high uh quality machinery , and very specific machinery , but project manager : alright . i like the environmental approach . um , we 'll have to see if that can meet our financial goals as well . industrial designer : yeah . okay . um also there is um components . this 'll be how it uh will actually work . but i have n't put this plan together yet . project manager : i 'm sorry , could you industrial designer : there we go project manager : those were um industrial designer : . sorry , should i go back . this would actually show the circuit diagram . although i have n't come up with the final circuit yet . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so i just put all those components in . project manager : so those are what , um , we 'll c construct the remote . those are all the industrial designer : yeah . i it just shows what sort of energy source . it could be a battery , like rechargeable probably . um , an ' yeah , well how the infrared will actually be sent through the chip to be received by the chip on the television set itself . project manager : alright . great . industrial designer : okay ? so , now is it f_ eight again to escape ? or escape ? there we go . okay . project manager : alright . thank you very much . and , um , the next presenter will be tara . industrial designer : thank you . user interface : industrial designer : there you go tara . user interface : thanks . can you see ? marketing : oh , user interface : do you think is it uh , function eight yeah ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : function f_ eight . marketing : function f_ eight . project manager : function f_ eight . sorry . industrial designer : the one at the top . user interface : oh right . okay . marketing : that looks right . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . i 'm the user um user interface designer . uh , the technical functions design of the apparatus is the effect the apparatus should have . um , in this case it 's the function of the remote control , which is to send messages to the television , television set . by taking inspiration from other similar designs , we 'll try and come up with an original trendy remote control , which is sellable international . there 're two functional design options . a multifunctional remote control , which can be used for several entertainment devices . and a single function remote control , used specifically for the television . marketing : i 'm sorry , what was that last one . multifunctional and user interface : sorry . um , a single function just for the television itself . marketing : ch oh , i see . user interface : yeah . um , multifunctional controls can be difficult to use , as the multitude of buttons can be confusing . a single function remote control is simpler to use , but it means you have to have other remote controls for your other entertainment devices . marketing : 'kay . user interface : um , i think that a single function remote control would be preferable , because it 's easier to use . it 'd be more compatible with a range of television sets , making it more internationally sellable . um , it will make an original design more obtainable , as we have less functional necessities to include in the design . and it would be more profitable as it would be more simplistic . and less functions would have to be included . so it would be cheaper to make . and probably more sellable just because it 's more compatible with a r a wider range of devices . does anyone have any questions ? marketing : so as far as we know , um , a single function television remote control is us usable internationally ? user interface : well , it 's just that , when we 're creating it , we 're , we have to make it um compatible with different brands of devices . marketing : right . user interface : and it would be easier to make it compatible with just different brands of television devices rather than other ent , marketing : d_v_d_s and v_c_r_ ? user interface : yeah , project manager : right . marketing : okay . user interface : other entertainment devices . project manager : does everyone agree with this ? does anyone object and , and find the multifunctional might be a better way to go ? industrial designer : um , i was just wondering about the , what , what genevieve said before , about having like some hidden controls like having the outer casing . and that would probably , um , i d , well well what you said before about it being a more profitable simplistic design . i suppose having that would complicate it a lot more . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and limit the design . do you think ? marketing : yeah , i think i agree with the single design thing for now , because we 're trying to do so much , that if we 're trying to make a unique , user-friendly , dadada , and it 's also multi also multifunctional , um , we 're gon na go over budget for one thing . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . that 's true . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . and with this we 'll have more room in the budget probably to make a more original design . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : we 'll have more money to go into the design side of it . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . yeah . project manager : alright . sounds great . marketing : mm , 'kay . project manager : alright , well , um , marketing : project manager : are you ready for your presentation genevieve ? marketing : yes i am . project manager : fabulous . except you 're not hooked up to the user interface : marketing : i 'm not hooked up , but other than that , completely ready . project manager : great . marketing : okay . okay . oh . i just lost my microphone . project manager : no problem , marketing : just a moment . project manager : we can marketing : okay . so i 'll be discussing the functional requirements of this remote control . um , and i 'll give you a little briefing on what that means exactly . um , if you all remember from the email we got before our very first uh kick-off meeting , with the coffee machine ? the functional requirements of that was to produce hot coffee quickly . um , so what i 'll be talking about now is the equivalent for a remote control . um , so basically what needs and desires are to be fulfilled . um , i 've done some marketing research , a lot of interviews with remote control users , um , and some internet research . and i 'll show you my findings . oh , and firstly i wanted to remind you about our company motto and purpose . so we believe in providing international market with fashionable products . um , hence our motto , we put the fashion in electronics . so i think that should be our priority here . um , and we should also be looking to trends in clothing and interior design . not just in electronic fashion . so that it 's something that fits in the household . project manager : i 'm sorry , what was that last thing that you just said ? marketing : um , we should be looking towards trends in both clothing and interior design . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : any trends that are going on in , in the public , even media , you know who 's famous , what tv shows are being watched , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um , to influence our remote control . okay , so the findings . um , seventy five percent of users of remote controls find them ugly . which is a , quite a significant number . industrial designer : marketing : um , the other twenty five percent did n't specify if they love them or found them , you know , neutral . eighty percent of users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy . current remote controls do not match well the operating behaviour of the user . project manager : i 'm sorry , that eighty percent of users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy . you mean that they would spend more money on a fancy-looking remote control ? marketing : yeah , they 're willing , they 're willing to spend money on a remote control with personality . project manager : okay . marketing : as opposed to your basic , you know , oval black , all same size button remote control . industrial designer : mm . yeah . marketing : um , so it is something that people care about . it 's not , it 's not ignored in the household . um , seventy five percent of remote control users said that they zap a lot . zapping meaning they go through channels a lot . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : they 're you know thumb-masters . um , and fifty percent of users say they only use ten percent of the buttons . that a very small amount . thought that was interesting . project manager : alright , so it might be very appealing if , um , we have very concise buttons . industrial designer : mm . the single function . project manager : and another thing with um lots of surfing , we 'd probably have to work on something that could be um a lot more durable , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : because i find with um channel-changers that , um , a lot of the numbers get rubbed down if they 're printed on the button . industrial designer : yeah that 's a good point . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : and actually to go with that , i 'm gon na give you some statistics on the uh relevancy of the buttons , how much they 're used . and uh how important the uh users find them . so the power button , obviously , in an hour is only used once . hopefully the person 's not turning on and off the tv . um , but the relevance of that button is nine out of ten . so people wan na be able to turn on the tv with the remote control . um , as opposed to standing up and turning on the television set . channel selection is used a hundred and sixty eight times on average per hour . industrial designer : marketing : that 's a huge amount . this is the most important button . um , so obviously when commercials come on they 're changing it , so as you said we want a durable button that 's not gon na run down . relevance of that button , our users found was uh ten , ten out of ten . uh , ditto for volume selection , so ten out of ten . and it 's used on average four times an hour . not as much as channel selection , but still significant . um , audio settings is used on average zero point eight times an hour . relevance is two . screen settings , which means brightness , colour etcetera , zero point five times an hour . um , and relevance of one point five . we 're getting to specific statistics here . teletext , um , now i 'm not too clear on what that is . i do n't know if you can help me . flipping pages . user interface : it 's um marketing : is that industrial designer : it 's like the news . or like information . user interface : it has tv has like information , it has information on holidays , the news , entertainment . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the project manager : it 's um industrial designer : and what 's on . marketing : so like a running banner , underneath project manager : no it 's a button that you press , and then you , uh , like a menu pops up . user interface : no , li yeah . project manager : i have n't used it before user interface : yeah . project manager : but industrial designer : it 's like user interface : and you have page numbers like for the menu , and you press the page numbers with your remote , and it , it 'll come up . industrial designer : it 's like very basic internet . sort of , marketing : okay . user interface : very basic internet , yeah . industrial designer : um user interface : but you have marketing : okay . like tells you the weather , and user interface : yeah . but you have no interaction back with it , you know . marketing : okay . user interface : like the internet you can send emails and you 've no interaction . industrial designer : yeah , it 's just information that um , like television timetables , what 's on , what 's on now , what 's on next , on every channel , and marketing : right . user interface : yeah . marketing : alright . well i guess i 'm not with it , because i was n't but it 's , it 's being used fourteen times an hour . um , and has a r a high relevance of six point five . so it looks like something that we 're gon na want to do some research on and include on our remote control . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um , channel settings . zero point zero one times an hour . relevance of three . channel settings . user interface : uh , probably just tuning in the channels , would it be ? marketing : p sorry . changing the channels ? user interface : tuning them in at the very start . you know if you get a new tv set , you tune in all the channels , industrial designer : to get the right reception and picture , i suppose . user interface : do you th do you think ? marketing : oh , okay . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . okay . um , so it 's not used very often , but people still find it relevant . okay . um , biggest frustrations of uh the people that we interviewed . remote controls are often lost somewhere . so that was already discussed by poppy . how we could have a , an alarm system so that people can find it . um , takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote control . so it should be very user-friendly , you know . people know what to do very quickly . um , remote controls are bad for r_s_i_ . industrial designer : repetitive strain injury . user interface : repeti uh . industrial designer : i think . marketing : is that what it is ? people with arthritis and such ? project manager : that 's rather sad . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um , maybe our industrial designer : oh , i 'm guessing that 's what it is . i 'm not user interface : yeah , yeah . i think it is . marketing : designers can look into that . um , buttons that do n't require , you know , very firm pushing , if they respond . industrial designer : mm . yeah . marketing : but we 'll have to also avoid , you know , buttons responding to the slightest touch as well . that 's a problem . industrial designer : yeah . it is . marketing : okay . did you guys uh get that one down ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um okay , here 's some ideas for you . a large percentage of the public would pay for voice recognition on the remote controls . so i 'll show you some numbers here . um , so the youngest age group , fifteen to twenty five . ninety one point two percent said that they would pay extra money to have voice recogni voice recognition included on their remote control . um , and you can see that number decreases a bit with ol s interestingly enough , twenty five to thirty five is the lowest amount . um , that would , are willing to pay extra . so i guess we 're gon na have to figure out what age group we 're , we 're targeting , and if and if voice recognition is something we wan na look into . and if we have the budget for it . um , if we are targeting young adults , it looks like something that would pay off . seeing as ninety percent , over ninety percent would pay for it . project manager : i agree with um if we 're targeting young adults then it would be something we should look into . um , financially and and functionally . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um , and especially if we are um trying to be trendy , go with fashions , things like that . um , ages like from thirty five to sixty five which show lower numbers probably wo n't be as concerned . marketing : so that , that 's a whole other field of research . i do n't know if it 'd be , if we 'd still have a remote , or if you 're talking to your television and saying change channel . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um and depending on how many members you have in households . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it m it may be too complicated for us , but it 's something to keep in mind anyway . project manager : yeah . and something that might further complicate it is that the tv makes noise itself . marketing : right . project manager : wonder if it would have user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and if there was conversation in the room at the same time , project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : although in theory it does n't tend to be when you 're watching television , project manager : industrial designer : but could be very difficult to get the specific uh design . project manager : yeah . if we 're looking for a simplistic design , if marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : we need to decide if that is our um intention is , is a simplistic design . industrial designer : yeah . mm . project manager : um , because if , if it is then i think voice , um voice-activated marketing : it looks like project manager : yeah , and that would sort of negate the whole remote control thing , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : because if people can activate the television with their voice then they wo n't be using a , they wo n't be talking into a remote , i 'm sure . marketing : it 'd be like the ultimate remote . um okay . and th the last thing here was a , an lcd screen . so , i mean voice recognition might be a little too extreme for us . not practical . um an lcd screen though might be something that , you know , you can shift through pages kind of li the way this powerpoint is working . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so that you do n't have so many buttons to deal with . project manager : um , i do n't know what an lcd screen is . marketing : oh sorry , just , just a screen , like a computer screen . s or like um user interface : mobile phone . yeah . marketing : yeah . or like an alarm clock . you 'd have an lcd versus just a , a normal clock . industrial designer : what , what would appear on the screen ? project manager : i have no idea still . i 'm sorry . marketing : oh just like an electronic screen . as opposed to just buttons . there would be like a little , like on project manager : oh , on the remote . okay . marketing : yeah . like on the top of a cellphone , the the little lcd screen . project manager : yeah . marketing : um , now that 's , i , i dunno exactly what exactly we 'd put on there . i guess the channel that you 're on , the v the volume setting . user interface : yeah . could it it it would be good if it had the actual programme that was on , and what was next . but that would probably be industrial designer : like linked in with the teletext , user interface : yeah . that would be good , yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or sort of like an teletext at your fingers , without having to access that through the television . user interface : yeah . might be quite expensive to do that though . industrial designer : mm , yeah . could be . user interface : marketing : well i guess that 's something we can all take back to our respective research . project manager : right . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um , and finally , whoops , my personal preferences and thoughts . um , i think our priority really should be unique design . um , we want something that people want in their home . every remote control looks the same , so uh in my opinion it should be , um , user-friendly and unique . so the other stuff might be a little too , a little too gadgety for some people . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um , i th myself , voice recognition kind of scares me off . user interface : marketing : so if we 're , if we 're aiming to make this an international university , universally accepted product project manager : marketing : um , and for all , the other thing is like age market . i mean if we wanted to concentrate on fifteen to twenty five years olds , we could go for the fancy stuff . but if we wan na make fifty million , and and have everyone want this remote control , we should maybe stick to the basics . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and we should keep in mind that fifteen to twenty five year olds might not have twenty five euros to spend on a remote control . like their priorities might not be a fancy remote control , when they 're just starting out marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and , yeah . marketing : right . and we have to keep in mind the , the reliability of our research . i mean , you know , a sixteen year old boy would say , yeah i 'd pay extra for voice recognition , until they realise that 's three months allowance . user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : yeah . marketing : um , so i i think , i think the older generations we should be catering to a bit more . user interface : early twenties , that 's the kind of age group . project manager : yeah . and if one of the largest , uh , or most complained about thing is that it takes so long to get to know how to use a remote control , user interface : twenties . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i 'm sure that something like an lcd screen or remote control would be just furthering that problem . industrial designer : yeah . complicated jus complicating things even fo mm . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : alright . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . that 's it for the market research . project manager : okay . before we go into uh more discussion on we want this design to look like , i 've received some information from the management that will affect some of our decisions . um , for one thing , because having controls with d_v_d_ , v_c_r_ , that sort of thing , would really complicate the design of the remote control . um , we 've decided not to include them and make it a specific , just a specific television um function . which is good as , as we 've sort of decided that we would like to go with that anyway . um , for many reasons . so um we have that decision sort of made for us . another thing that might um affect other decisions is that um the management feels that teletext is outdated , because more people are using the internet now . and so uh we wo n't concern ourselves with um navigating the teletext option . industrial designer : can i just interrupt ? would you like to plug in your marketing : yeah . maybe we can do the project manager : okay , sure . industrial designer : have you got a powerpoint or not ? project manager : yeah i do . i 'm looking at looking at it right now . industrial designer : okay . thanks . marketing : there you go . project manager : thank you . marketing : oh , come back screen . project manager : marketing : hmm . industrial designer : were they , was the management suggesting use of the internet rather than teletext , or just avoiding both altogether ? project manager : um , well , i mean we do n't have the resources or or possibility of using the internet with the remote control , industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : but um they were just pretty much saying that the teletext would not be used . industrial designer : okay . yeah . okay . project manager : alright , and another thing . this is for the design , the design of the product is that um we wan na create , um more of a sense that people know that this is from our company . so , um , all the remote controls must have our um we 'll incorporate our logo and colour in in some way . industrial designer : right . yeah . project manager : so , um , perhaps um our logo on the bottom , or wherever you feel like it would look good . industrial designer : yeah . okay . project manager : um , it does n't have to be the colour of our um of our company industrial designer : just project manager : but , another thing is that , um industrial designer : project manager : we need to , we probably would have to have that colour and , and logo decided upon . um , i 'm assuming that we already have one , but for the purposes of this meeting i , i was n't offered a , like a type of logo or colour , so if that could be um somewhere on the design so that we can be recognisable . industrial designer : okay . work on that . marketing : it 's probably r_ r_r_ in yellow . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : the little r_ r_ yellow thing ? okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , i think . project manager : real reaction ? okay . um , yes , those are the changes . um , so , now we need to discuss , um and come to a decision on our remote control functions , of , of how this is going to be . i 'm just going to look at my notes for a second . um , we have to decide on a target group and the functions of the remote control . so , um , we already know that it 'll just be for the television . industrial designer : okay . project manager : it 'll it wo n't have teletext . but um , you know , we could discuss um those other options that you brought up , genevieve . marketing : okay , so i are we going to write off the lcd option ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : is that how most people feel about that ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . so no lcd , no teletext , and no voice recognition . user interface : i think it would be annoying though if i do n't use teletext that much , but if it was on your tv , you 'd want to be able to use it , if project manager : yeah , but another thing is that if we 're reaching an international crowd , um , i know for one that in north america there is no such thing as teletext , so it 'd be really superfluous . user interface : you 'd yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : so is it just industrial designer : yeah . marketing : never heard of it . user interface : okay . alright . project manager : yeah . i do n't know about other countries besides the u_k_ . user interface : right . project manager : do you know if anywhere else has it ? industrial designer : i do n't know . user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : more research required , i think . user interface : i do n't know . project manager : alright . industrial designer : but if was it a management decision that we 're having project manager : it was a management decision , industrial designer : okay . project manager : so it 's , it 's pretty much out of our hands at this point . industrial designer : so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay then . project manager : 'kay . so , i guess we 're looking at something rather simple . marketing : um , well i guess , just from my findings it looks like we wan na minimise buttons . industrial designer : 'kay . minimal marketing : and the what was the word they used ? f findability is important . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : yeah . i think we should definitely go ahead with the alarm system idea that you had . industrial designer : yeah okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause i 'm sure that could be inex inexpensive because we could use the same kind of infrared user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . the same signalling . project manager : the same signal through that and it could just like make a little beeping noise . industrial designer : i mean project manager : it 's not that expensive to do . industrial designer : or vibrate just the same as a mobile phone . like you just a , a buzz or something . project manager : yeah . yeah . okay . i like that idea . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : would you be able to , um , put the little device anywhere ? 'cause uh is n't our remote control for all tvs , so industrial designer : if user interface : you 'd ha industrial designer : do you mean the the link between the user interface : yeah , with the button that you pressed . project manager : yeah . the button industrial designer : well , if the button was actually on user interface : yeah . industrial designer : oh , yeah . project manager : minor detail there . user interface : c 'cause then it would only be a applicable to one tv set , so it would need to be something that you could stick somewhere , or something . industrial designer : maybe yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah , it would have t industrial designer : maybe something adhesive that you could like stick onto the back of any set that would be um yeah not very obtrusive . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : obviously something small that 's yeah , that 's a good point . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . then it would n't , it probably would n't be able to use it would be able to use the same reception on the remote c control i guess , but the actual device would have to have its own infrared signaller . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , okay . user interface : would it need a battery then ? project manager : maybe , um industrial designer : pr probably . project manager : probably , i mean . industrial designer : unless it could be project manager : that 's your department you 'll have to sort that out . user interface : industrial designer : okay . um , unless some way , it could have some universal connection to like the socket , the same socket that the tv 's supplied from . i mean the power for the tv . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , you 'll have to industrial designer : so , mm , more research into that one . project manager : yeah , you 'll have to investi do some research on that , user interface : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : alright ? great . um , alright , and i 'm sure that , um um , the glow-in-the-dark , fluorescent , whatever , system , um is a go ahead . is everyone interested in that ? marketing : on the buttons ? user interface : i i like the light up suggestion . i think that would be better . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause you know the way fluorescent lights lose their brightness after certain time , so industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it does n't user interface : i would go for marketing : it could it could be a tactile thing as well . um right , if w if we 're minimising buttons , we might be able to make them actually larger . and there 's something on it . s you know like up arrow down arrow for , for volume . industrial designer : like a raised marketing : um , and i do n't know what we could do for , for channels . s user interface : well just the numbers could be embossed , could n't it ? like raised . marketing : the numbers themselves . user interface : yeah . could be raised . marketing : but then the like up button and down button for the channel , channel changing . user interface : just little arrows , that you could feel , maybe ? industrial designer : yeah marketing : yeah . i just thought that it , it might be sucking more battery power , if there , if it is a light up . i 'm not sure . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : that 's true . project manager : but i mean industrial designer : and also y , uh heather you mentioned before , um like how it should be accessible to everybody . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um , so like big b um buttons , for people you are visually impaired . the glow-in-the-dark or light up wo n't make any difference anyway . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so like you say tactile might be better , because it 'd be more available to everybody . user interface : that , i think that 's good , yeah . project manager : yeah . could we somehow we could , may , possibly , sorry , incorporate them both so that the buttons could maybe be in the shape of the numbers themselves and be made out of some glow-in-the-dark material . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause i d i do n't think that glow-in-the-dark material , um , like the actual soft plastic , um , costs that much more than other colours . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : no , it 's not these days . user interface : no , i would n't say so . marketing : industrial designer : i mean , it 's quite easily accessible . project manager : yeah . marketing : i guess the other option , referring to the battery thing is , you know how cellphones will t light up for fifteen seconds or something , when you 're s and then it goes , industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : that 's good yeah that a good idea . marketing : so if , if you 're like changing the volume during a movie . i know , i 'm thinking of mostly when you 're watching a movie you turn all the lights off right . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and you do n't want to turn on the lights , to turn it down , because there 's suddenly an explosion , and it 's gon na wake up the baby . user interface : yeah . marketing : um , so if you touch the button , it kind of reactivates it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it lights up for industrial designer : yeah . user interface : that , yeah , that 's a good idea . marketing : on self timer . industrial designer : so self-timed lighting . project manager : alright we have five minutes left marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um , i project manager : um , for the meeting , but i think we should discuss this light subject a little bit more before we close . um , what was i missed the last moment , reading that . what were you talking about with the lighting up buttons ? marketing : oh , just if it was kinda the same way that a cell you know how a cellphone will light up for about ten , fifteen seconds when you touch a button , after having not touched it for a while . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : um , if instead of a constant light up on the , on the remote control , if it lights up for ten seconds when it 's touched again . project manager : mm . so it could be any button that would be pressed . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , and you , you touch it and it just kind of lights up a bit , and it gives a faint glow . industrial designer : so , self-timed marketing : so if you have all the lights off in your living room , you 'll , you 'll temporarily see it . project manager : yeah . marketing : because usually you 're not fooling around for it for more than what ten seconds . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , so user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : that 's probably feasible . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so , do you think that we should do the lighting up thing , and the glow-in-the-dark thing , and the shape of the numbers ? do we have to kind of decide what we 're gon na do with this . industrial designer : i think the shape of the numbers is a really good idea . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , okay . industrial designer : and i think that 's un unique as well . user interface : yeah . for visually impaired , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i mean , i have n't seen that . and as you 're saying like numbers can wear off if they 're just sort of like painted on , you know printed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , yeah . and it could , if it 's that softer rubber material it 'll be , maybe , um , uh , better for people with um els no industrial designer : durable . project manager : what 's it called , r_s_i_ , what was it that we were talking about ? industrial designer : oh yeah . yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : oh right , the project manager : yeah instead of like hard buttons . industrial designer : repetitive strain injury . project manager : okay . um , did we want to go for the glow-in-the-dark look ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : or did we want to go for the lighting up instantly ? user interface : if project manager : like should we do both ? or we can have one or the other ? because it might , for , for our design purposes , i mean , the lighting up thing might be better because glow-in-the-dark material has a funny kinda colour . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and it might not go with different like face plates that we might come up with . marketing : i was gon na say , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : exactly . it the it might be perceived as tacky , glow-in-the-dark . project manager : yeah . marketing : it 's kind of like eighties neon-style . industrial designer : yeah , and we could marketing : um , whereas we 're trying to be trendy and fashionable . industrial designer : yeah there are now like loads , or a huge range of different colours that it could light up in as well , marketing : so industrial designer : which could like link in with the company colours . like it could be blue or green or yellow , user interface : project manager : right . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or like we 've just limited t with the , just ordinary phosphorescent so project manager : right . alright . so we 've decided on lighting up things . user interface : i was thinking though , if it was glow-in-the-dark , you could put the um real reaction symbol as glow-in-the-dark , and then it would be constantly advertised . industrial designer : yeah . every time the , that it lit up , you c that could light up as well . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or , or the , whate project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : but with the same thing , i mean . if you touch the button and then it could be , it could be lit up as well . marketing : that 's true . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . okay . project manager : is are you okay with that ? okay . cool . user interface : yeah . project manager : um alright . so i think that um that completes most of our um our more uh practical decisions . industrial designer : is project manager : and now it 's up to designing . and um making sure that this can be feasible . and do you have anything marketing : what um project manager : do you have anything to say ? marketing : oh sorry . yeah well , i was just gon na throw out there the thought about um personalising the remote control . um , it , you , 'cause you mentioned face plates . so i i dunno if there 's something that diff , you know like five different face plates . i dunno if this will start making it more complicated , but it could increase the popularity of the , of the remote . um industrial designer : okay . like you can have changeable um mobile covers or something . user interface : oh yeah . interchangeable thing ? marketing : yeah , project manager : like an ipod or something ? user interface : that would be good . industrial designer : yeah , or marketing : exactly , like an ipod . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : exactly . industrial designer : okay . marketing : or , or like mobile ph . project manager : like a cellphone ? yeah . marketing : and i dunno if we 'd want to go with like tv show themes or something . like a bart simpson faceplate . user interface : yeah , and then that would be uh more profitable like as a sideline to the remote as well . marketing : but industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : y could buy extra marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : accessories . marketing : exactly . you could start out with three , and if , if we hit it big then we can add some on . industrial designer : person user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . well , that 's great . user interface : that 's a good idea . yeah . project manager : yeah . i think that we should incorporate that . industrial designer : interchangeable . project manager : 'cause that would n't be very expensive at all . industrial designer : um , als project manager : you 'd just get one mould , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : throw some plastic in it , you know . industrial designer : interchan and also possible i mean , uh , we could gain out of that by advertising certain tv shows , or project manager : yeah . well , that might be com problematic with um copyright issues . user interface : oh yeah . marketing : right . project manager : so , if it takes off then we 'll , we 'll , we 'll try that out . industrial designer : yeah . but if we , there is yeah . we could um , the environmental factor , we did n't bring that up again . project manager : right . marketing : right . project manager : we 'll have to do more research . like as of yet , that has nothing to do with , um , the way it 'll look . um , does it need to be reached a de industrial designer : yeah . project manager : do we need to reach a decision on that right now ? industrial designer : um , i 've project manager : because we need to investigate the financial implications . industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : okay . is it industrial designer : let 's project manager : does it need to be uh decided on now ? or should we industrial designer : i think we could probably leave that 'til later on , then . project manager : okay . good . alright then . anyone else have anything more to say before we close ? alright , well . let 's have lunch and we 'll discuss this later . user interface : okay . marketing : project manager : alright ? </s>
<s> how did the group discussed about the possible environmental-friendly material ? </s> industrial designer : um , so that would work . um , oop . go back there . um , another thing i think we d missed out on on the last meeting was the fact that we should consider the environmental impact of our design . um , from previous researches i 've carried out on other projects , um we 've learnt about smart materials where um um specific alloys of metals have a shape memory . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : so they can be heated and um and cooled , and they change the shape of um the metal . so , for example , a screw that 's holding something together could expand and it would force all the components apart . so um , the benefits of this for our product would be that when it came to the end of its product life , if it was heated , um everything would spring apart . so , all the um individual components could be easily separated , and then some could be reused , some could be recycled , and i think that would be very important for products now . especially 'cause there 's much uh responsibility for all the um companies who are coming up with like new designs . 'cause all , we all know that our resources are being limited , and we have to be very environmentally conscious . project manager : right , um , one question . this , um , self-destructible uh metal , it allows for recycling materials ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so that , um , someone could have this product for as long as they felt that they wanted it , and then once they contribute it , then that company can break down the part , the parts better ? industrial designer : um and then yeah . yeah they would , um you would make the , the product as you normally would , apart from the , the bits that hold it all together would be made out of this shape-memory alloy . and that 's the part that would um allow all the other parts to be separated at the end . i mean , the user would return the p product to the company , 'cause it 's the product 's responsibility to get rid of what they 've made . um , and then the company could then just use , make use of this shape-memory alloys to split up the components , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and then either reuse some bits , and other bits which are obviously gon na wear out with time , or not usable , they might be like be able to put into scrap metal . something like the case , if it 's scratched or something , you would want to reuse it , but you might be able to melt it down and reuse it again somewhere else . project manager : mm-hmm . would we be the company that would break down these , or uh metals ? or would we contribute to another group ? industrial designer : you could we could probably empl em employ a , a side company or something to do that for us . but it would be our responsibility to get that done and to dispose of the products that we made . for a certain percentage at least . project manager : alright . industrial designer : not every , not a hundred percent of everything we produce , project manager : okay . this sounds like a really great idea . industrial designer : but project manager : one thing we have to consider is our uh one hundred percent um turnover goal that we have for our financial sector . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : um , so we 'll have to investigate how much that will cost us , cost the company , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um 'cause it sounds very labour-intensive . you would have to hire a number of people , and it might be more expensive . industrial designer : well i the fact of the shape-memory alloys is that they , they do n't need to be manually de um deconstructed . like , you do n't have to individually um unscrew all the screws . because of this , their properties are smart material . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : all you need is just the heat , so they self-destruct themselves . project manager : alright . we 'll still have to investigate the financial implications . industrial designer : so i suppose it does need like high contact , yeah , you know high uh quality machinery , and very specific machinery , but project manager : alright . i like the environmental approach . um , we 'll have to see if that can meet our financial goals as well . industrial designer : yeah . okay . um also there is um components . this 'll be how it uh will actually work . but i have n't put this plan together yet . project manager : i 'm sorry , could you industrial designer : there we go project manager : those were um industrial designer : . sorry , should i go back . this would actually show the circuit diagram . although i have n't come up with the final circuit yet . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so i just put all those components in . project manager : so those are what , um , we 'll c construct the remote . those are all the industrial designer : yeah . i it just shows what sort of energy source . it could be a battery , like rechargeable probably . um , an ' yeah , well how the infrared will actually be sent through the chip to be received by the chip on the television set itself . project manager : alright . great . </s>
<s> how did the group hold their views towards multi-functional and single-functional product ? </s> user interface : okay . i 'm the user um user interface designer . uh , the technical functions design of the apparatus is the effect the apparatus should have . um , in this case it 's the function of the remote control , which is to send messages to the television , television set . by taking inspiration from other similar designs , we 'll try and come up with an original trendy remote control , which is sellable international . there 're two functional design options . a multifunctional remote control , which can be used for several entertainment devices . and a single function remote control , used specifically for the television . marketing : i 'm sorry , what was that last one . multifunctional and user interface : sorry . um , a single function just for the television itself . marketing : ch oh , i see . user interface : yeah . um , multifunctional controls can be difficult to use , as the multitude of buttons can be confusing . a single function remote control is simpler to use , but it means you have to have other remote controls for your other entertainment devices . marketing : 'kay . user interface : um , i think that a single function remote control would be preferable , because it 's easier to use . it 'd be more compatible with a range of television sets , making it more internationally sellable . um , it will make an original design more obtainable , as we have less functional necessities to include in the design . and it would be more profitable as it would be more simplistic . and less functions would have to be included . so it would be cheaper to make . and probably more sellable just because it 's more compatible with a r a wider range of devices . does anyone have any questions ? marketing : so as far as we know , um , a single function television remote control is us usable internationally ? user interface : well , it 's just that , when we 're creating it , we 're , we have to make it um compatible with different brands of devices . marketing : right . user interface : and it would be easier to make it compatible with just different brands of television devices rather than other ent , marketing : d_v_d_s and v_c_r_ ? user interface : yeah , project manager : right . marketing : okay . user interface : other entertainment devices . project manager : does everyone agree with this ? does anyone object and , and find the multifunctional might be a better way to go ? industrial designer : um , i was just wondering about the , what , what genevieve said before , about having like some hidden controls like having the outer casing . and that would probably , um , i d , well well what you said before about it being a more profitable simplistic design . i suppose having that would complicate it a lot more . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and limit the design . do you think ? marketing : yeah , i think i agree with the single design thing for now , because we 're trying to do so much , that if we 're trying to make a unique , user-friendly , dadada , and it 's also multi also multifunctional , um , we 're gon na go over budget for one thing . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . that 's true . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . and with this we 'll have more room in the budget probably to make a more original design . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : we 'll have more money to go into the design side of it . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . yeah . project manager : alright . sounds great . marketing : mm , 'kay . </s>
<s> what was the most prioritized functional requirement of their remote control ? </s> marketing : okay . so i 'll be discussing the functional requirements of this remote control . um , and i 'll give you a little briefing on what that means exactly . um , if you all remember from the email we got before our very first uh kick-off meeting , with the coffee machine ? the functional requirements of that was to produce hot coffee quickly . um , so what i 'll be talking about now is the equivalent for a remote control . um , so basically what needs and desires are to be fulfilled . um , i 've done some marketing research , a lot of interviews with remote control users , um , and some internet research . and i 'll show you my findings . oh , and firstly i wanted to remind you about our company motto and purpose . so we believe in providing international market with fashionable products . um , hence our motto , we put the fashion in electronics . so i think that should be our priority here . um , and we should also be looking to trends in clothing and interior design . not just in electronic fashion . so that it 's something that fits in the household . project manager : i 'm sorry , what was that last thing that you just said ? marketing : um , we should be looking towards trends in both clothing and interior design . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : any trends that are going on in , in the public , even media , you know who 's famous , what tv shows are being watched , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um , to influence our remote control . okay , so the findings . um , seventy five percent of users of remote controls find them ugly . which is a , quite a significant number . industrial designer : marketing : um , the other twenty five percent did n't specify if they love them or found them , you know , neutral . eighty percent of users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy . current remote controls do not match well the operating behaviour of the user . project manager : i 'm sorry , that eighty percent of users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy . you mean that they would spend more money on a fancy-looking remote control ? marketing : yeah , they 're willing , they 're willing to spend money on a remote control with personality . </s>
<s> what did they discussed about buttons as a function ? </s> marketing : as opposed to your basic , you know , oval black , all same size button remote control . industrial designer : mm . yeah . marketing : um , so it is something that people care about . it 's not , it 's not ignored in the household . um , seventy five percent of remote control users said that they zap a lot . zapping meaning they go through channels a lot . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : they 're you know thumb-masters . um , and fifty percent of users say they only use ten percent of the buttons . that a very small amount . thought that was interesting . project manager : alright , so it might be very appealing if , um , we have very concise buttons . industrial designer : mm . the single function . project manager : and another thing with um lots of surfing , we 'd probably have to work on something that could be um a lot more durable , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : because i find with um channel-changers that , um , a lot of the numbers get rubbed down if they 're printed on the button . industrial designer : yeah that 's a good point . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : and actually to go with that , i 'm gon na give you some statistics on the uh relevancy of the buttons , how much they 're used . and uh how important the uh users find them . so the power button , obviously , in an hour is only used once . hopefully the person 's not turning on and off the tv . um , but the relevance of that button is nine out of ten . so people wan na be able to turn on the tv with the remote control . um , as opposed to standing up and turning on the television set . channel selection is used a hundred and sixty eight times on average per hour . industrial designer : marketing : that 's a huge amount . this is the most important button . um , so obviously when commercials come on they 're changing it , so as you said we want a durable button that 's not gon na run down . relevance of that button , our users found was uh ten , ten out of ten . uh , ditto for volume selection , so ten out of ten . and it 's used on average four times an hour . not as much as channel selection , but still significant . um , audio settings is used on average zero point eight times an hour . relevance is two . screen settings , which means brightness , colour etcetera , zero point five times an hour . um , and relevance of one point five . we 're getting to specific statistics here . teletext , um , now i 'm not too clear on what that is . i do n't know if you can help me . flipping pages . user interface : it 's um marketing : is that industrial designer : it 's like the news . or like information . user interface : it has tv has like information , it has information on holidays , the news , entertainment . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the project manager : it 's um industrial designer : and what 's on . marketing : so like a running banner , underneath project manager : no it 's a button that you press , and then you , uh , like a menu pops up . user interface : no , li yeah . project manager : i have n't used it before user interface : yeah . project manager : but industrial designer : it 's like user interface : and you have page numbers like for the menu , and you press the page numbers with your remote , and it , it 'll come up . industrial designer : it 's like very basic internet . sort of , marketing : okay . user interface : very basic internet , yeah . industrial designer : um user interface : but you have marketing : okay . like tells you the weather , and user interface : yeah . but you have no interaction back with it , you know . marketing : okay . user interface : like the internet you can send emails and you 've no interaction . industrial designer : yeah , it 's just information that um , like television timetables , what 's on , what 's on now , what 's on next , on every channel , and marketing : right . user interface : yeah . marketing : alright . well i guess i 'm not with it , because i was n't but it 's , it 's being used fourteen times an hour . um , and has a r a high relevance of six point five . so it looks like something that we 're gon na want to do some research on and include on our remote control . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um , channel settings . zero point zero one times an hour . relevance of three . channel settings . user interface : uh , probably just tuning in the channels , would it be ? marketing : p sorry . changing the channels ? user interface : tuning them in at the very start . you know if you get a new tv set , you tune in all the channels , industrial designer : to get the right reception and picture , i suppose . user interface : do you th do you think ? marketing : oh , okay . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . okay . um , so it 's not used very often , but people still find it relevant . okay . um , biggest frustrations of uh the people that we interviewed . remote controls are often lost somewhere . so that was already discussed by poppy . how we could have a , an alarm system so that people can find it . um , takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote control . so it should be very user-friendly , you know . people know what to do very quickly . um , remote controls are bad for r_s_i_ . industrial designer : repetitive strain injury . user interface : repeti uh . industrial designer : i think . marketing : is that what it is ? people with arthritis and such ? project manager : that 's rather sad . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um , maybe our industrial designer : oh , i 'm guessing that 's what it is . i 'm not </s>
<s> what other functions that customers would be willing to pay more for ? </s> marketing : designers can look into that . um , buttons that do n't require , you know , very firm pushing , if they respond . industrial designer : mm . yeah . marketing : but we 'll have to also avoid , you know , buttons responding to the slightest touch as well . that 's a problem . industrial designer : yeah . it is . marketing : okay . did you guys uh get that one down ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um okay , here 's some ideas for you . a large percentage of the public would pay for voice recognition on the remote controls . so i 'll show you some numbers here . um , so the youngest age group , fifteen to twenty five . ninety one point two percent said that they would pay extra money to have voice recogni voice recognition included on their remote control . um , and you can see that number decreases a bit with ol s interestingly enough , twenty five to thirty five is the lowest amount . um , that would , are willing to pay extra . so i guess we 're gon na have to figure out what age group we 're , we 're targeting , and if and if voice recognition is something we wan na look into . and if we have the budget for it . um , if we are targeting young adults , it looks like something that would pay off . seeing as ninety percent , over ninety percent would pay for it . project manager : i agree with um if we 're targeting young adults then it would be something we should look into . um , financially and and functionally . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um , and especially if we are um trying to be trendy , go with fashions , things like that . um , ages like from thirty five to sixty five which show lower numbers probably wo n't be as concerned . marketing : so that , that 's a whole other field of research . i do n't know if it 'd be , if we 'd still have a remote , or if you 're talking to your television and saying change channel . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um and depending on how many members you have in households . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it m it may be too complicated for us , but it 's something to keep in mind anyway . project manager : yeah . and something that might further complicate it is that the tv makes noise itself . marketing : right . project manager : wonder if it would have user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and if there was conversation in the room at the same time , project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : although in theory it does n't tend to be when you 're watching television , project manager : industrial designer : but could be very difficult to get the specific uh design . project manager : yeah . if we 're looking for a simplistic design , if marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : we need to decide if that is our um intention is , is a simplistic design . industrial designer : yeah . mm . project manager : um , because if , if it is then i think voice , um voice-activated marketing : it looks like project manager : yeah , and that would sort of negate the whole remote control thing , marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what other points did the product manager and the marketing specialist raise about functions of the product ? </s> marketing : it 'd be like the ultimate remote . um okay . and th the last thing here was a , an lcd screen . so , i mean voice recognition might be a little too extreme for us . not practical . um an lcd screen though might be something that , you know , you can shift through pages kind of li the way this powerpoint is working . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so that you do n't have so many buttons to deal with . project manager : um , i do n't know what an lcd screen is . marketing : oh sorry , just , just a screen , like a computer screen . s or like um user interface : mobile phone . yeah . marketing : yeah . or like an alarm clock . you 'd have an lcd versus just a , a normal clock . industrial designer : what , what would appear on the screen ? project manager : i have no idea still . i 'm sorry . marketing : oh just like an electronic screen . as opposed to just buttons . there would be like a little , like on project manager : oh , on the remote . okay . marketing : yeah . like on the top of a cellphone , the the little lcd screen . project manager : yeah . marketing : um , now that 's , i , i dunno exactly what exactly we 'd put on there . i guess the channel that you 're on , the v the volume setting . user interface : yeah . could it it it would be good if it had the actual programme that was on , and what was next . but that would probably be industrial designer : like linked in with the teletext , user interface : yeah . that would be good , yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or sort of like an teletext at your fingers , without having to access that through the television . user interface : yeah . might be quite expensive to do that though . industrial designer : mm , yeah . could be . user interface : marketing : well i guess that 's something we can all take back to our respective research . project manager : right . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um , and finally , whoops , my personal preferences and thoughts . um , i think our priority really should be unique design . um , we want something that people want in their home . every remote control looks the same , so uh in my opinion it should be , um , user-friendly and unique . so the other stuff might be a little too , a little too gadgety for some people . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um , i th myself , voice recognition kind of scares me off . user interface : marketing : so if we 're , if we 're aiming to make this an international university , universally accepted product project manager : marketing : um , and for all , the other thing is like age market . i mean if we wanted to concentrate on fifteen to twenty five years olds , we could go for the fancy stuff . but if we wan na make fifty million , and and have everyone want this remote control , we should maybe stick to the basics . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and we should keep in mind that fifteen to twenty five year olds might not have twenty five euros to spend on a remote control . like their priorities might not be a fancy remote control , when they 're just starting out marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and , yeah . marketing : right . and we have to keep in mind the , the reliability of our research . i mean , you know , a sixteen year old boy would say , yeah i 'd pay extra for voice recognition , until they realise that 's three months allowance . user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : yeah . marketing : um , so i i think , i think the older generations we should be catering to a bit more . user interface : early twenties , that 's the kind of age group . project manager : yeah . and if one of the largest , uh , or most complained about thing is that it takes so long to get to know how to use a remote control , user interface : twenties . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i 'm sure that something like an lcd screen or remote control would be just furthering that problem . industrial designer : yeah . complicated jus complicating things even fo mm . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : alright . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the group 's decision on colour and logo of the product . </s> project manager : alright , and another thing . this is for the design , the design of the product is that um we wan na create , um more of a sense that people know that this is from our company . so , um , all the remote controls must have our um we 'll incorporate our logo and colour in in some way . industrial designer : right . yeah . project manager : so , um , perhaps um our logo on the bottom , or wherever you feel like it would look good . industrial designer : yeah . okay . project manager : um , it does n't have to be the colour of our um of our company industrial designer : just project manager : but , another thing is that , um industrial designer : project manager : we need to , we probably would have to have that colour and , and logo decided upon . um , i 'm assuming that we already have one , but for the purposes of this meeting i , i was n't offered a , like a type of logo or colour , so if that could be um somewhere on the design so that we can be recognisable . industrial designer : okay . work on that . marketing : it 's probably r_ r_r_ in yellow . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : the little r_ r_ yellow thing ? okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , i think . </s>
<s> what did they finalize on the product ? </s> project manager : real reaction ? okay . um , yes , those are the changes . um , so , now we need to discuss , um and come to a decision on our remote control functions , of , of how this is going to be . i 'm just going to look at my notes for a second . um , we have to decide on a target group and the functions of the remote control . so , um , we already know that it 'll just be for the television . industrial designer : okay . project manager : it 'll it wo n't have teletext . but um , you know , we could discuss um those other options that you brought up , genevieve . marketing : okay , so i are we going to write off the lcd option ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : is that how most people feel about that ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . so no lcd , no teletext , and no voice recognition . user interface : i think it would be annoying though if i do n't use teletext that much , but if it was on your tv , you 'd want to be able to use it , if project manager : yeah , but another thing is that if we 're reaching an international crowd , um , i know for one that in north america there is no such thing as teletext , so it 'd be really superfluous . user interface : you 'd yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : so is it just industrial designer : yeah . marketing : never heard of it . user interface : okay . alright . project manager : yeah . i do n't know about other countries besides the u_k_ . user interface : right . project manager : do you know if anywhere else has it ? industrial designer : i do n't know . user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : more research required , i think . user interface : i do n't know . project manager : alright . industrial designer : but if was it a management decision that we 're having project manager : it was a management decision , industrial designer : okay . project manager : so it 's , it 's pretty much out of our hands at this point . industrial designer : so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay then . project manager : 'kay . so , i guess we 're looking at something rather simple . marketing : um , well i guess , just from my findings it looks like we wan na minimise buttons . industrial designer : 'kay . minimal marketing : and the what was the word they used ? f findability is important . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : yeah . i think we should definitely go ahead with the alarm system idea that you had . industrial designer : yeah okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause i 'm sure that could be inex inexpensive because we could use the same kind of infrared user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . the same signalling . project manager : the same signal through that and it could just like make a little beeping noise . industrial designer : i mean project manager : it 's not that expensive to do . industrial designer : or vibrate just the same as a mobile phone . like you just a , a buzz or something . project manager : yeah . yeah . okay . i like that idea . </s>
<s> what did the group discussed about the portability of the remote control ? </s> marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : would you be able to , um , put the little device anywhere ? 'cause uh is n't our remote control for all tvs , so industrial designer : if user interface : you 'd ha industrial designer : do you mean the the link between the user interface : yeah , with the button that you pressed . project manager : yeah . the button industrial designer : well , if the button was actually on user interface : yeah . industrial designer : oh , yeah . project manager : minor detail there . user interface : c 'cause then it would only be a applicable to one tv set , so it would need to be something that you could stick somewhere , or something . industrial designer : maybe yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah , it would have t industrial designer : maybe something adhesive that you could like stick onto the back of any set that would be um yeah not very obtrusive . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : obviously something small that 's yeah , that 's a good point . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . then it would n't , it probably would n't be able to use it would be able to use the same reception on the remote c control i guess , but the actual device would have to have its own infrared signaller . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , okay . user interface : would it need a battery then ? project manager : maybe , um industrial designer : pr probably . project manager : probably , i mean . industrial designer : unless it could be project manager : that 's your department you 'll have to sort that out . user interface : industrial designer : okay . um , unless some way , it could have some universal connection to like the socket , the same socket that the tv 's supplied from . i mean the power for the tv . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , you 'll have to industrial designer : so , mm , more research into that one . project manager : yeah , you 'll have to investi do some research on that , user interface : industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group discussed about the fluorescent button on the remote control ? </s> project manager : alright ? great . um , alright , and i 'm sure that , um um , the glow-in-the-dark , fluorescent , whatever , system , um is a go ahead . is everyone interested in that ? marketing : on the buttons ? user interface : i i like the light up suggestion . i think that would be better . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause you know the way fluorescent lights lose their brightness after certain time , so industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it does n't user interface : i would go for marketing : it could it could be a tactile thing as well . um right , if w if we 're minimising buttons , we might be able to make them actually larger . and there 's something on it . s you know like up arrow down arrow for , for volume . industrial designer : like a raised marketing : um , and i do n't know what we could do for , for channels . s user interface : well just the numbers could be embossed , could n't it ? like raised . marketing : the numbers themselves . user interface : yeah . could be raised . marketing : but then the like up button and down button for the channel , channel changing . user interface : just little arrows , that you could feel , maybe ? industrial designer : yeah marketing : yeah . i just thought that it , it might be sucking more battery power , if there , if it is a light up . i 'm not sure . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : that 's true . project manager : but i mean industrial designer : and also y , uh heather you mentioned before , um like how it should be accessible to everybody . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um , so like big b um buttons , for people you are visually impaired . the glow-in-the-dark or light up wo n't make any difference anyway . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so like you say tactile might be better , because it 'd be more available to everybody . user interface : that , i think that 's good , yeah . project manager : yeah . could we somehow we could , may , possibly , sorry , incorporate them both so that the buttons could maybe be in the shape of the numbers themselves and be made out of some glow-in-the-dark material . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause i d i do n't think that glow-in-the-dark material , um , like the actual soft plastic , um , costs that much more than other colours . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> how did the fluorescent buttons related to the humanitarian design of the product ? </s> user interface : no , i would n't say so . marketing : industrial designer : i mean , it 's quite easily accessible . project manager : yeah . marketing : i guess the other option , referring to the battery thing is , you know how cellphones will t light up for fifteen seconds or something , when you 're s and then it goes , industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : that 's good yeah that a good idea . marketing : so if , if you 're like changing the volume during a movie . i know , i 'm thinking of mostly when you 're watching a movie you turn all the lights off right . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and you do n't want to turn on the lights , to turn it down , because there 's suddenly an explosion , and it 's gon na wake up the baby . user interface : yeah . marketing : um , so if you touch the button , it kind of reactivates it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it lights up for industrial designer : yeah . user interface : that , yeah , that 's a good idea . marketing : on self timer . industrial designer : so self-timed lighting . project manager : alright we have five minutes left marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um , i project manager : um , for the meeting , but i think we should discuss this light subject a little bit more before we close . um , what was i missed the last moment , reading that . what were you talking about with the lighting up buttons ? marketing : oh , just if it was kinda the same way that a cell you know how a cellphone will light up for about ten , fifteen seconds when you touch a button , after having not touched it for a while . project manager : yeah . yeah . marketing : um , if instead of a constant light up on the , on the remote control , if it lights up for ten seconds when it 's touched again . project manager : mm . so it could be any button that would be pressed . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , and you , you touch it and it just kind of lights up a bit , and it gives a faint glow . industrial designer : so , self-timed marketing : so if you have all the lights off in your living room , you 'll , you 'll temporarily see it . project manager : yeah . marketing : because usually you 're not fooling around for it for more than what ten seconds . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , so user interface : yeah . marketing : so project manager : that 's probably feasible . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so , do you think that we should do the lighting up thing , and the glow-in-the-dark thing , and the shape of the numbers ? do we have to kind of decide what we 're gon na do with this . industrial designer : i think the shape of the numbers is a really good idea . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , okay . industrial designer : and i think that 's un unique as well . user interface : yeah . for visually impaired , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i mean , i have n't seen that . and as you 're saying like numbers can wear off if they 're just sort of like painted on , you know printed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , yeah . and it could , if it 's that softer rubber material it 'll be , maybe , um , uh , better for people with um els no industrial designer : durable . project manager : what 's it called , r_s_i_ , what was it that we were talking about ? industrial designer : oh yeah . yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : oh right , the project manager : yeah instead of like hard buttons . industrial designer : repetitive strain injury . project manager : okay . um , did we want to go for the glow-in-the-dark look ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : or did we want to go for the lighting up instantly ? user interface : if project manager : like should we do both ? or we can have one or the other ? because it might , for , for our design purposes , i mean , the lighting up thing might be better because glow-in-the-dark material has a funny kinda colour . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and it might not go with different like face plates that we might come up with . marketing : i was gon na say , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : exactly . it the it might be perceived as tacky , glow-in-the-dark . project manager : yeah . marketing : it 's kind of like eighties neon-style . industrial designer : yeah , and we could marketing : um , whereas we 're trying to be trendy and fashionable . industrial designer : yeah there are now like loads , or a huge range of different colours that it could light up in as well , marketing : so industrial designer : which could like link in with the company colours . like it could be blue or green or yellow , user interface : project manager : right . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or like we 've just limited t with the , just ordinary phosphorescent so project manager : right . alright . so we 've decided on lighting up things . user interface : i was thinking though , if it was glow-in-the-dark , you could put the um real reaction symbol as glow-in-the-dark , and then it would be constantly advertised . industrial designer : yeah . every time the , that it lit up , you c that could light up as well . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or , or the , whate project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : but with the same thing , i mean . if you touch the button and then it could be , it could be lit up as well . marketing : that 's true . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . okay . project manager : is are you okay with that ? okay . cool . user interface : yeah . project manager : um alright . so i think that um that completes most of our um our more uh practical decisions . </s>
<s> what was the idea of personalization and how was it not so feasible ? </s> project manager : and now it 's up to designing . and um making sure that this can be feasible . and do you have anything marketing : what um project manager : do you have anything to say ? marketing : oh sorry . yeah well , i was just gon na throw out there the thought about um personalising the remote control . um , it , you , 'cause you mentioned face plates . so i i dunno if there 's something that diff , you know like five different face plates . i dunno if this will start making it more complicated , but it could increase the popularity of the , of the remote . um industrial designer : okay . like you can have changeable um mobile covers or something . user interface : oh yeah . interchangeable thing ? marketing : yeah , project manager : like an ipod or something ? user interface : that would be good . industrial designer : yeah , or marketing : exactly , like an ipod . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : exactly . industrial designer : okay . marketing : or , or like mobile ph . project manager : like a cellphone ? yeah . marketing : and i dunno if we 'd want to go with like tv show themes or something . like a bart simpson faceplate . user interface : yeah , and then that would be uh more profitable like as a sideline to the remote as well . marketing : but industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : y could buy extra marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : accessories . marketing : exactly . you could start out with three , and if , if we hit it big then we can add some on . industrial designer : person user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . well , that 's great . user interface : that 's a good idea . yeah . project manager : yeah . i think that we should incorporate that . industrial designer : interchangeable . project manager : 'cause that would n't be very expensive at all . industrial designer : um , als project manager : you 'd just get one mould , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : throw some plastic in it , you know . industrial designer : interchan and also possible i mean , uh , we could gain out of that by advertising certain tv shows , or project manager : yeah . well , that might be com problematic with um copyright issues . user interface : oh yeah . marketing : right . project manager : so , if it takes off then we 'll , we 'll , we 'll try that out . industrial designer : yeah . but if we , there is yeah . we could um , the environmental factor , we did n't bring that up again . project manager : right . marketing : right . project manager : we 'll have to do more research . like as of yet , that has nothing to do with , um , the way it 'll look . um , does it need to be reached a de industrial designer : yeah . project manager : do we need to reach a decision on that right now ? industrial designer : um , i 've project manager : because we need to investigate the financial implications . industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : okay . is it industrial designer : let 's project manager : does it need to be uh decided on now ? or should we industrial designer : i think we could probably leave that 'til later on , then . project manager : okay . good . alright then . anyone else have anything more to say before we close ? alright , well . let 's have lunch and we 'll discuss this later . user interface : okay . marketing : project manager : alright ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee . we 've received apologies for absence from michelle brown and jack sargeant ; there are no substitutions . can i ask if members have any declarations of interest , please ? no . okay . we 'll move on , then , to item 2 , which is our scrutiny of the 'healthy weight : healthy wales ' draft strategy , and i 'm very pleased to welcome dr frank atherton , the chief medical officer for wales , and nathan cook , who is the head of the healthy and active branch at welsh government . thank you , both , for attending this morning . we 're very much looking forward to hearing what you 've got to say . if you 're happy , we 'll go straight into questions . if i can just start by asking about the fact that 'healthy weight : healthy wales ' is an all-age strategy , really , and how confident you are that it will deliver for children and young people . dr frank atherton : well , we 're very confident . i mean , it has to , quite clearly . we do need to think about the present generation , the problems faced by the current generation . we have high prevalence of overweight and obesity among adults—we know that , and we ca n't walk away from that because that 's translating into demand on health services . but we have to take a focus , a future generation 's focus , almost , on the next generation . i do n't write off the current generation , we ca n't afford to do that , but we do need to think about what can we do that would be different for the next generation so that they do n't get into the sorts of problems that we 're currently seeing with overweight and obesity . we know that the consequences of that for our young people are going to be enormous if we do n't do something and something quite soon . we know that overweight children go on to become overweight adults , unfortunately , and that brings all the consequences of multiple disease issues—diabetes is often cited—cancer risk et cetera . so , we have to focus on children , and , in fact , during the consultation , we 've been very clear that we need to engage with children and young people as well . perhaps we 'll get into that at some point , chair , but , yes , i can give you that assurance . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . what my follow-up question , really , is : can you just tell us what kind of engagement you 've had with children and young people to inform the draft strategy ? dr frank atherton : well , nathan may be able to influence some of the detail , but in broad terms , we have discussed with young people in a number of fora . in fact , i was delighted that we had a young person , evie morgan , a schoolgirl from mid wales , who came to the joint launch on the consultation . she met the minister there and gave a very good personal account of her views on obesity and overweight . we 've been visiting a number of schools during the consultation process . i 'm visiting a school , either this week or next week , at treorchy , to talk with teachers and young people there . obviously , we 're hopeful that schools and young people will contribute to the consultation as well . so , we 've had quite good input , i would say , from children and young people . there is always more we can do we and we want to hear those voices . nathan cook : i was going to say , we 've also had a session with youth ambassadors as well , and what we 've actually produced for the consultation is not just the children and young people 's version , but also a toolkit in terms of getting schools really engaged and involved in terms of the work that we want them to do to feed into this as well . so , we 've already had some really good responses from a lot of youth group and schools already . lynne neagle am : and you 've got a structured programme , have you , to roll that out ? okay . thank you . we 've got some questions now on leadership , and the first questions are from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : good morning . i 'll be speaking in welsh . the minister for health said yesterday , in answering a question from me on the chamber floor , that you gave him advice not to have a target in terms of reducing obesity among children . could you confirm that that 's what your advice was and tell us why you do n't think that a target is needed ? dr frank atherton : my advice was not that we do n't need a target—we may well need a target , and that 's one of the issues we need to consult on—but that the target that had been adopted in england and in scotland to halve the prevalence of obesity in children was more aspirational than deliverable , and that if we are to choose a target in wales , then we need to balance deliverability with challenge . we need a challenging environment . so , there is something about performance management , because i would be looking to not just the health system but the health and care system and to public services boards to think about how they 're delivering on this , and i think we can use targets to that . but they are one tool in the box that i would think we could use , and part of the consultation is to ask that question—'if we are to go down a route in wales of choosing a target , what might that look like ? ' sian gwenllian am : okay . so , to be clear , you 're not ruling out that maybe we would need a target . dr frank atherton : it 's certainly something that we could consider in terms of the final strategy . sian gwenllian am : and is that your opinion too ? okay . well , that is contrary to what i was told yesterday on the floor of the chamber by the minister , but there we go . i 'm glad to hear that you 're not ruling out having a target , because without a target , without something to aim for , how do we know that we 're getting there ? dr frank atherton : i think your point about evaluation is really important . whatever we produce at the end of this process—and we 're looking to produce a final strategy towards the autumn—we do need to have a strong evaluation . so , some metrics in there , it would seem , would be appropriate , but what those are , what the nature of those are , do we frame them as targets or ambitions—that 's the point we need to consult on . sian gwenllian am : okay . and the other point , of course , is the investment . if the government is going to be successful in terms of the aim of reducing childhood obesity , then it needs to fund and support the actions . have you made an assessment of the level of investment needed to implement this plan ? dr frank atherton : resourcing will be important . we currently do make investments in a number of areas that relate to child health generally , and , of course , obesity and overweight in particular . so , the question of resourcing is important . now , we ca n't quantify an absolute amount of resource that will be needed to deliver until we know exactly what 's going to come out of the consultation and what actions we might want to deliver to a greater degree in wales . a figure of £8 million to £10 million a year has been banded around as a broad kind of area of what we might need to invest , but that would need to be drawn from existing programmes . we need to look at existing programmes , how effective they are . can we make them more effective ? can we get better value from them ? and there may well be a case for new investment , and that 's a question , of course , that would need to be discussed with ministers when we 're producing the final strategy . nathan cook : but i think a key consideration as well is we already know there is investment across health boards in some kind of obesity-related services . so , i think what we really need to think about across wales is how we can drive greater scale , how we can look at current programmes in terms of making sure that they 're better evaluated , and how we can make sure that we 're also drawing up on the existing resources and capacity out there as well . sian gwenllian am : and does the level of investment depend on what the target is—what the goal is ? dr frank atherton : i do n't think you can necessarily just link the two . the issue of resourcing is one that 's there irrespective of whether we choose to put a target in place . sian gwenllian am : but how would we know that it 's being used effectively if there is n't something to aim for ? dr frank atherton : which brings you back to the question about evaluation . we need proper evaluation of the various programmes that we have . sian gwenllian am : yes , but without a target , how can you properly evaluate ? if you do n't know what you 're trying to do , how can you properly evaluate ? anyway , you 're open to suggestions about having a target , which is great . would you agree that government could use the revenue that 's being produced through the levy on soft drinks towards some of these efforts to— ? dr frank atherton : well , of course , there are some consequentials that are coming to the welsh government as part of the levy on sugary soft drinks . that funding , of course , is less than we had anticipated , and that reflects , actually , a success story because industry is reformulating , and so the amount of sugar in soft drinks is already starting to decrease , which is a good thing . but to your question : should we use the funding ? well , of course we should use funding . i 'm not personally in favour of hypothecation , i think i 'm more interested in the totality of resource that goes into public health programmes than into marginal resource . there are , of course , a number of initiatives that we currently fund through the general revenue . and when i think about obesity , i do n't just think about the relatively small marginal amounts of money that come in through whatever source , but i think about the totality of the £7 billion we spend in health and social care and how we can divert and channel some of that towards broad prevention initiatives in general , and towards tackling being overweight and obesity in particular . sian gwenllian am : you 're saying that it 's less than expected . could you give us any kind of figure ? dr frank atherton : i 'm sorry , could you repeat the question ? sian gwenllian am : you say that there is less money that 's come in through these consequentials from the levy , can you mention some sort of figure ? dr frank atherton : the figure that i have in mind is about £56 million that 's coming in in terms of revenue over a two-year period . but i 'd have to confirm that with the committee . what the anticipated— . when the sugar levy was first brought in , there was some modelling at uk level about what level of revenue that would bring , but it was based on the amount of sugar that was currently then in drinks and the fact that the sugar has reduced in drinks , i mean , the total amount available to the uk is less and hence our consequentials are less . nathan may have some precise figures . nathan cook : yes , i was going to say , there was a mid-year report done where the levy has raised £150 million to date since coming into force in april , and the original forecast was £520 million a year . so , i think that shows the amount of work that 's been done by industry around reformulation . sian gwenllian am : and the consequentials of that ? that is the consequential—£150 million . nathan cook : on a uk level . sian gwenllian am : yes , so what 's the welsh consequential ? lynne neagle am : fifty-six . sian gwenllian am : fifty-six ? gosh , that sounds a lot . anyway , it 's a good sum of money and you 're talking about investing £8 million to £10 million . so , obviously , you know , we can be more ambitious because there is money in that pot if that money was ring-fenced for this particular scheme . dr frank atherton : well , the resource is going to be a real issue that we need to address , and i think as nathan has said , there is funding of various initiatives currently in the system , and we need to look at that and make that as effective as possible . will there be a need for some additional resource ? there may well be , and that 's a question that we 'll have to look at in terms of the strategy when we develop it and have a discussion with ministers about the level of resourcing . lynne neagle am : can i just ask on that before siân moves on ? what assessment have you made of how that money is being spent in other uk nations ? because my understanding is that the money is being used in other uk nations to directly impact on obesity . have you given any consideration to— ? as i understand it , that money now is being dispersed around a plethora of programmes , including the transformation programme , and what i found very odd , really , was vaccination , which is surely the core business of the nhs . have you got any view on that ? dr frank atherton : i 'm not sure i understand your point , chair , in terms of the link between the consequentials from— . are you talking about the consequentials from the sugar levy or are you talking about— ? lynne neagle am : yes , because in other nations , it is being used to directly impact on initiatives to tackle obesity , whereas , we 've kind of put it here in wales into the general pot and it 's being used to fund a plethora of different things . dr frank atherton : well , that cuts to what i was talking about . my preference—it 's a personal view—is that hypothecation does n't really help us too much . i mean , what we need to look at is whether the programmes , the sorts of programmes that are being funded in england , or indeed in scotland , are working effectively , and if they are , are they being delivered here in wales ? we have looked very carefully at the plans that england and scotland have for tackling obesity and overweight , and we 've made a comparison with what we 're doing in wales , and our ambition in wales is to go further than those nations , in many ways . but i come back to the point that just linking the hypothecation of a relatively small amount of resource is likely to be less impactful than asking a question of public services boards and of the health system , indeed , about how much money , overall , are we putting into prevention . lynne neagle am : no , i recognise that , and i think we 're talking about additional resource . suzy . suzy davies am : i was just wondering whether you thought that there was a useful psychological link on the part of the public between saying , 'here 's a sugar levy ' , and 'it 's going to be used to help children and adults stay healthier . ' going into a pot , it actually makes it quite difficult to explain the purpose of the tax in the first place . so , i take your overall point , but in terms of the people who we 're trying to help in all this , actually creating a direct link might be quite helpful . dr frank atherton : you may be right . i 'm not a behavioural psychologist . we 'd have to ask— suzy davies am : neither am i. i 'm a person who eats a lot of sugar . [ laughter . ] dr frank atherton : your point 's taken . suzy davies am : thank you . lynne neagle am : thanks . siân . sian gwenllian am : the last question from me , about partnership working . you 're putting an emphasis on the whole-system approach in implementing the plan , how are you going to create a system that co-ordinates action and drives change across relevant partners , avoiding a situation where it 's everyone 's role , but nobody 's responsibility ? how are you going to avoid that ? dr frank atherton : it 's a very important question , and one of the four strands in the consultation is exactly related to that , around leadership and drive nationally . i 'm not interested in producing a strategy that sits on a shelf . if you look around the world , there are plenty of obesity strategies . you may notice , by the way , that we 've chosen not to talk about an obesity strategy but a healthy weight strategy , because i think having a positive construct is really quite important to us here in wales . but leadership will be really important , and we will need some sort of structure to lead this , to provide oversight . i 'm not a great believer in creating new structures , so we do need something that will give that drive , but the leadership comes from the top down . we need political commitment to this , and that 's why i welcome the input from this committee . so , that needs to be assured . and then we need to make sure that the public sector generally is engaged in this , but it goes way beyond the public sector , of course , because we have to work with industry , and we have to work with communities , and we have to work with the public on this . so we need to think about our governance system for this and how we drive it forward . interestingly , we had quite a large discussion two days ago between health and social care , but also involving the third sector and some members of the public , around how can we drive prevention more generally . it was n't specifically on obesity , but of course obesity came up because it 's such a pressing issue . this question of governance was discussed quite extensively , and we do have governance systems , of course , in wales . we have public services boards , we have regional partnership boards , and how we can get those aligned behind this common agenda is really important . but i 'd like to see—and i know i 'm a public health professional , so i know that only maybe 10 per cent , 15 per cent , possibly 20 per cent of what makes and keeps us healthy as individuals and as communities can be driven through the health system ; but i would like the system to step up and take these kinds of issues more seriously as well . so i 'd be looking for local leadership through directors of public health and indeed through chief executives to work with their public services boards on this . so , we 'll need some sort of national oversight , absolutely , but we need local ownership and local leadership , too . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 've got some questions now from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . delivery of the plan will be led by a national implementation board that will be accountable to ministers . which minister do you believe it should be accountable to , or , given the complexity of obesity , should the board be directly accountable to the first minister ? dr frank atherton : ultimately , the first minister will be responsible for this and will want to have a strong oversight of this . it is often framed as a health issue , and the minister , vaughan gething , has a strong personal commitment to this , i know . we 've talked extensively with him and with sports and recreation colleagues about that , so there 's a link there . it does cut across all portfolios , and so this is an issue that i have discussed with cabinet , and that collective ownership is really important , and will be , because it ca n't just sit in one domain . i think what you do need to have is you do need to have a lead organisation or a lead ministry , and i would see health as—i work within health , so i 'm perhaps biased , but i would see health as leading this , but it needs broad ownership across government . janet finch-saunders am : i know my colleague siân gwenllian mentioned earlier targets and things , but i know in wales we 're not too good at collecting data . what data is currently available on childhood obesity and what metrics will be used to measure progress against the plan 's objectives ? dr frank atherton : well , of course , our main data source is the child measurement programme , which collects information on children entering school aged four or five . that 's our main source of information . if we look at that data , it shows us— . well , i 'm sure you 're familiar with the statistics , but it 'll be just under a third of children at that age who are overweight or obese— janet finch-saunders am : could i just ask—sorry to interrupt—how up to date is that ? dr frank atherton : the last survey was just last year . nathan cook : the data was published last week . dr frank atherton : yes , the lastest data was out last week . janet finch-saunders am : it is pretty up to date . dr frank atherton : so , it 's pretty up to date , and what it shows— . it 's not getting radically worse—there 's always statistical variation in these things—but it 's not getting any better . and , for the first time last year , we did look at the question not just of children who were overweight or obese , but we actually singled out the proportion who are obese , severely obese . so we have a figure for that for the first time , which is about 12 per cent , which is quite shocking , in a way . janet finch-saunders am : it is shocking . dr frank atherton : so , that 's our main source of information . does that answer your question ? janet finch-saunders am : yes , but how will any gaps in your data be addressed ? dr frank atherton : well , one of the questions that are often asked is : could we measure more on a longitudinal basis ? by that i mean in england , for example , children are measured at school entry and then again at year 11—at age 11 or 12. , that kind of age group . and so you do have a longitudinal view over time of what 's happening to children . i think that would be helpful to us in wales , and it 's one of the questions in the consultation about whether we should expand that . obviously , that would have significant resource implications , not just for the funding , but also for schools and for the system to deliver it . but it 's something that maybe would help us in terms of better understanding and better evaluation—the point that was made earlier . nathan cook : and the other data we do have is the millennium cohort study , which has been released , for 14 and 15-year-olds . that 's going to be— . we 're starting to think about how we can utilise some of that data , looking at that longitudinal picture around children as well , which will be really helpful . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . you 've answered my next question . thank you . lynne neagle am : can i just ask about the child measurement programme ? the strategy commits to looking at whether we can have a second measurement taking place in wales . can you just tell us a bit more about your thinking on that and when you would see a second measurement taking place and how you would use that data ? dr frank atherton : i touched on that just now , but personally i do think it would be helpful to have more information . it 's always the case , there 's always a trade-off between the cost of getting that information and the value of the information . so , the question of how it would be used would be really important . there is still a lot that we do n't know . we know an awful lot about obesity and being overweight and the causes of it , but we do n't really have a very clear understanding , in wales at least , of the point at which children start to become overweight . although we know that overweight children tend to go on to become overweight adults , we do n't know what proportion of them between school entry and later teenage years—what those changes are . so , it would help us to have some better understanding , which would help to direct some of our initiatives . i 'd be generally supportive of the principle . we 'll wait and see what comes out in the consultation , and it 's something that we need to give thought to , but we do have to trade off the additionality of what the information would give us with the cost of doing that , of course . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . we 've got some questions now on healthy environments from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . in the draft plan , some of the measures in there suggest legislating for restricting price promotions and banning energy drinks , and that sort of thing . do you think that , if we go down that road , there 's going to be time within this assembly to introduce such legislation ? and , if not , what do you think might be the timescale for such legislation ? dr frank atherton : it may well be that there are things in wales that we might wish to legislate on , and you 've mentioned two of them , and they 're good examples . we would , obviously , need to undertake quite detailed consultation on those and , in a way , we need to mirror what 's happening in england and in scotland to some degree around the consultations they 're having on energy drinks . we also need to influence the issues that are not devolved to us and we seek to do that . as to your question of legislative time , i 'm not really in a position to answer that . what i could say is that legislation may well be one of the outcomes of the consultation . there may well be things that we wish to choose to legislate on . the timing of that will have to be subject to other pressures , and i come back to the point that legislation , of course , is one of the tools that we 've got—we need to deploy them all . dawn bowden am : sure , i understand that , that you could do other things . i know— . we 've heard from the government , on other calls for legislation , that the programme 's very tight , certainly for this term , so i was just wondering whether we might get that in , but okay . if i turn now to the planning system—and this might not be something that you have great deal of knowledge of ; i 'd just welcome your view on this , because , when we discussed with stakeholders , we talked about whether the planning system , for instance , could be used to , as an example , restrict hot food takeaways around schools and so on . would that be a measure that you would support , something like that ? dr frank atherton : i think it 's definitely something we want to look at and , of course , that question is asked in the consultation , so we would like to know people 's views on that . it 's an interesting one . i think there is a question—a really important question—about how we can use the planning system more effectively . i 've discussed with nathan on a number of occasions , with planning colleagues in welsh government and in local authorities , about the art of the possible , let 's say . there may be things that we could think about and we want to get those ideas through the consultation . the specific question around takeaways , particularly takeaways near schools , is often asked . i was very interested to see , up in the north-east , some time ago , that one of the local authorities up there did put a moratorium on the opening of new fast-food venues near to schools , or indeed in areas where levels of obesity and overweight were particularly high . i understand london is now—some london boroughs are now—experimenting with that as well . so , that gave me comfort , because maybe there are powers within local authorities that can be used more effectively . i think my view at the moment is that the jury 's kind of out on whether those are effective and how effective they 're going to be . but the fact that we have some initiatives around the uk does give us an opportunity to study that and to learn from experience perhaps and then , if it is shown to be beneficial , to think about that here in wales , yes . dawn bowden am : sure , because it will only be one of a suite of measures anyway . of itself , it would n't address the problem , but , added to other initiatives , i guess it would . can i just ask you briefly , then , about community sport infrastructure and , in particular , of new schools ? so , welsh government , as you know , has ploughed a huge amount of money into the twenty-first century schools programme . what we heard when we spoke to stakeholders recently , particularly headteachers , was that , in some of the new schools that have been built , we have n't had changing rooms and toilet facilities , for instance , built into the new buildings . so , if we 're going to try and utilise these buildings for general community activity to get kids and the wider public , actually , more active , do you think that 's something that we ought to be building in ? again , not your particular direct area of responsibility , but something that you might have an input into , is that , when we 're developing schools , we should be making sure that they have those kinds of facilities so that they become accessible to the wider public . is that something that you would be prepared to make a recommendation around ? dr frank atherton : well , it 's certainly a fascinating area and one that i think has a lot of potential . it goes— . you 're right to raise it in the context of schools , and i can understand why this committee would , but i think it goes beyond that , actually , into all developments in the public sector and how they 're developed and whether we 're building health into our environment , which perhaps is your starting point . one of the things that i was really pleased to see in terms of the public health ( wales ) act 2017 that was passed a couple of years ago was the use of health impact assessment as a tool , and we 're still working on how that will inform policy and how that will be applied in issues such as policy decisions through government , but also in more downstream issues about how we create the public infrastructure that the public can and should be using . and so i would like to see the use of health impact assessments to a much greater degree to inform those kinds of decisions . if you apply that kind of lens and you take the point , which is inherent in your question , i think , that schools are not just for kids , they 're for communities , then you would—it would lead you to a conclusion that you would perhaps design and build them in a different way . so , on a personal basis , i would certainly support your view that we should be looking to use the sports environment in schools in the same way as we use leisure centres . there are all kinds of barriers in there , and i understand all of that , and it 's not really my field , exactly as you say , but , as a matter of principle , i think it 's a good one to pursue . dawn bowden am : okay . thank you . and widening it out to other public services buildings as well . dr frank atherton : indeed . dawn bowden am : yes . okay . thank you . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 're going to move on now to talk about how we create healthy settings . i 've got some questions from suzy davies . suzy davies am : thank you very much . yes , perhaps if we could just stay in this area of education just for a moment , i think we all agree that healthy habits acquired early on probably tend to last quite well , so i wonder if you can tell us a little bit about the healthy and sustainable preschool scheme and whether you think some timescales should be made public about what you expect the achievements from that scheme to be . but , in particular , i was struck with what you said about local leadership , and i just want you to bear that in mind in answering the next question , which is about the foundation phase . you 're probably aware that this committee has heard from various school leaders that they 're struggling in some cases to meet the ratio of staffing for the foundation phase , which potentially compromises the purpose of it in terms of physical activity . i 'm just wondering how the strategy development board is considering that at the moment . is it something that 's come on the radar for the board ? is it something you 're thinking about ? and , if so , who do you think should be responsible for pinning that down a little bit ? because this is education , not health , and— . dr frank atherton : well , look , i 've got to confess to you , i 'm not an educationist , and so the question on staffing numbers in schools is not one that i have been asked to give a deal of consideration to , and it has n't really been discussed , i do n't believe , in the context of development of the strategy . if there is a specific point around that that the committee would like to make in terms of a response into the consultation , which i presume you 'll be making , then we 'd be happy to consider that . as to healthy preschools , i do n't know , nathan may have some view on that . i 've not been closely involved with the work . we have standards and we perhaps need to think about how we tighten those standards and how we—enforce is n't the right word , but how we implement and make sure that those standards are properly implemented , because you 're absolutely right to say that habits are developed early in life . that 's in the preschool ; it 's also in the home of course , and then later in the school . so , we do need to look at all of those as settings and are there more things we can do within those settings to drive healthier behaviours—that 's exactly why we need the consultation . nathan cook : but i would say , through that scheme as well , we 've really got a really good bank of preschools that are actually doing some really great work in this area as well . so , i think the more we can understand the successes that some of those environments are having—you know , how we can roll those out and work across other settings to create that wider impact as well is going to be really important . suzy davies am : okay . thank you . what i 'm thinking about is expectations at that level will be expectations at a slightly older level , which will be contained within the foundation phase . and while you 're quite right—obviously , parents have a role in this , or families—there will be , particularly with the introduction of the new curriculum , certain expectations on schools to provide not just healthy environments but to actively work towards well-being and healthy weight in children and things . and that 's why i asked you about local leadership , because , if it fails for reasons that have nothing to do with the plan at foundation phase , it 's going to fail further up the school years as well . i think it might be something that the board might want to consider here , because at some point there 'll be an accountability question and we will want to know how 'healthy weight : healthy wales ' fits in with the new plans for the new curriculum , and whether it 's merely persuasive and influential or whether it has the weight to place some obligations on school leaders about what they do in their schools . so , this connection , i think , is quite an important one , and , if the strategy development board could consider that , i think it would be very helpful , because this does n't exist in a vacuum . dr frank atherton : well , i 'd certainly be delighted to take that back and we can look at it in terms of how we move from the consultation into the final strategy . it 's certainly a point we can try and look at . suzy davies am : because we will want to know who to ask : 'you 're the accountable person—why has something worked , or not worked ? ' we will need to know that at some point . dr frank atherton : just building on nathan 's point , some of the schools—i know it 's schools rather than the preschools , and i take your point , but some of the schools we 've been working with have absolutely brilliant models of good practice and good local leadership . i remember the minister actually at the launch , and one of the schools was represented there , and they presented—the school came and some of the children came and presented—to the whole audience about the activities that they were undertaking in their school around physical activity and on healthy eating , and it was such a model of good behaviour the question was , 'well , why not everywhere ? ' , so that probably speaks to your question . suzy davies am : okay , well , thank you for that commitment anyway . lynne neagle am : and have you had any discussions , then , with education officials around things like teacher training and cpd , because you 'll be aware the health and social care committee has made a number of recommendations in this area ? it 's crucial that we skill up the staff to develop these things in an appropriate way , is n't it ? dr frank atherton : well , we certainly discuss with education colleagues in welsh government . there 's more we need to do in terms of that , because you 're absolutely right : there 's something about building the whole of the workforce—education is really important , but elsewhere as well ; it 's about how do we really make every contact count , you know , that construct . so , everybody who 's working in the health and social care system should have a role in this ; everybody who works in education , whether it 's the old— . do we still have dinner ladies ? or teachers , you know , they have a role to play in supporting children to be as healthy as they possibly can . and , actually , i see them , chair , as a really essential part of the public health workforce . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . suzy , are you going to do your curriculum one ? suzy davies am : well , i 've bound it in together , but that final point you make about teachers being part of the answer to this , they 're already under a range of pressures : is it fair to make them accountable for whether this works or not ? or should that local leadership lie somewhere else ? i do n't expect you to pin down a person today . dr frank atherton : i would n't like to blame a teacher or performance manage them on the proportion of their children in their class who are overweight . that would clearly be nonsense , would n't it ? but they are part of the solution , and so the accountability lies further up the chain , does n't it ? the question i think we would have , and public services boards might well ask , and the local education authorities may well ask , is : how effective is any particular school at driving forwards these healthy behaviours ? suzy davies am : okay , thank you . i 'll leave some questions for hefin . lynne neagle am : hefin . hefin david am : is that all right , chair ? lynne neagle am : you 've got the floor , hefin . hefin david am : thank you , chair . you make a commitment to embedding physical activity at an early stage in primary school education . what would that look like ? dr frank atherton : just in terms of the physical activity , i have to say it 's a really important dimension and we need to move further on . we know not enough of our children are physically active and they 're not meeting the various guidelines , so it 's really important . it does n't actually have as much of an impact on weight as the dietary issue . i 'd just say that . it 's really important for all sorts of reasons . it does have an impact on healthy weight , but it has a huge impact in terms of socialisation , in terms of mental health issues , et cetera , you know . so—i 'm sorry , i 've lost track of your question . nathan cook : i 'd just say that one thing we have got in train is , obviously , sport wales , public health wales and natural resources wales—we have them working together as a collaborative at the moment to look at how their joint delivery on physical activity can be taken forward more efficiently . so , one of the things they are looking at is obviously the schools programmes they do through eco-schools , the welsh network of healthy schools and the sports programme to really think about that physical activity and how we can have better join up in terms of the programmes that we 're already delivering as well . hefin david am : with that in mind , i 'm going to confess to you , chief medical officer , i did anything in school i could to avoid physical education lessons . i hated it . i did n't feel engaged with it . yet , two weeks ago , i played for the assembly rugby team—i wanted to get that in . the school sports survey , that would suggest that we 're still not hitting those targets with children . how can we get children more engaged with physical education in ways that— ? i felt completely alienated in school . dr frank atherton : well , you 're right , and many people go through that same journey and come to physical activity later in life , and that 's great if they do that . the sad reality is that many people do n't , and we also know that there are issues around the dropping off , particularly for girls , of physical activity towards the teenage years . so , there are specific moments that we need to understand . we do have a lot of information about these kinds of things . public health wales is very good at collating the information . we do need to turn that into programmes . i mean , at the heart of it , it 's about making sports and physical activity enjoyable and attractive to people . sometimes that 's easier , i sense , for boys than for girls , but we need to tailor things to different audiences . hefin david am : yes , that 's the trick , is n't it ? it 's about finding out what children enjoy doing . that could be quite a wide and varied range of things . is that the key ? dawn bowden am : it 's not all about organised team sports . hefin david am : yes . as dawn said , it 's not just about organised team sports . there are some very individual activities you could do . dr frank atherton : absolutely , yes . and that 's where i think— . i 'm delighted that sport wales has moved beyond . it 's not just about elite sports ; it 's about getting everybody engaged and active in sports , and that partnership with public health wales that nathan talked about is really important , because we need a population approach to driving physical activity . hefin david am : so , do you think , with that in mind , we need statutory guidance for schools on physical education ? dr frank atherton : again , i 'd look to the consultation as to whether there was an appetite for any kind of guidance . it may well be that that is something that could be considered . hefin david am : okay . and finally , with regard to free school meals to all pupils in primary and secondary schools , do you think that extending that to all pupils would be beneficial in providing a more varied diet for pupils ? dr frank atherton : i do n't have a personal view on that . i think it 's the quality of the food that kids are getting , whether that comes from home or through school , and whether it 's free or whether it 's paid for . i think it 's the quality of the food that we need to focus on . the question of children being hungry at school is a really important one and needs to be addressed at a national level . i think that 's a— hefin david am : so , you think that 's more about the provision of food for those who might not have access to it than providing a varied diet . dr frank atherton : i think it 's important that children have access to food , absolutely , if that 's your question , but we also need to look at the quality of the food and what 's in that food offer . hefin david am : but you do n't necessarily think universal provision would— . dr frank atherton : i do n't have a clear view on that . i know there 's a larger debate about that . hefin david am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : i 've got some supplementaries from janet and then suzy . janet finch-saunders am : yes . i 've been around some amazing schools in my own constituency , where they 've got proper canteen facilities for pupils and really , really good produce in the meals . however , there 's probably only a third having school meals ; the rest are packed lunches . and , to be honest , i 've been very surprised and shocked at what i 've seen of the quality of the food in the packed lunches . nobody can really police , and i would n't want to see parents being policed over what goes in a packed lunch , so if there is data out there to suggest that there 's a larger percentage of parents providing packed lunched that are really not good at all , then there is some merit to be said for what hefin is— . me , personally , i 'd love to see the introduction of universal school meals . i think it 's been a very retrograde step , going backwards . would you be willing to carry out any research ? dr frank atherton : so , i mean , your point about food that 's brought in in the packed lunches is a really important one , and i 've talked to some headteachers as well about this . we could go down a route of guidance and prohibition , but that gets you into the role of nanny in chief and i do n't really see that as my role or government 's role , and i do n't think it 's effective either . do you remember— ? you must have seen on tv—i think it was in scotland ; i do n't know if it 's happened in wales—parents pushing the fish and chip packets through the school railings . we do n't need to get into that . what i have seen , though , is some really good innovative practice in schools where , for example , they reward children for bringing the healthy options . schools can give guidance to parents about what would be a healthy lunch and what sort of things might be expected to be seen in the lunch box . and you can reward children , and children do respond to rewards . so , i 've seen some of those approaches that have transformed , actually , the offer of what comes in school boxes . but i think just banning chocolate bars and crisps in the packed lunch is unlikely to be successful . janet finch-saunders am : we ca n't do that . so , my point to the question was : is n't there some merit , perhaps , about all children being equal and eating similar good-quality food in schools ? dr frank atherton : yes . that gets you back to the question about universal school meals . janet finch-saunders am : perhaps some of that £56 million sugar tax , even . who knows ? suzy davies am : yes . mine is just a short question . the draft plan commits , does n't it , to updating the healthy eating in schools regulations—the 2013 regulations ? i appreciate this is a consultation , but what is it that needs changing in those regulations at the moment , just to give us a bit of steer ? nathan cook : it 's mainly on sugar content , so , obviously , they do n't adhere to current scientific advisory committee on nutrition guidelines around sugar levels . so , what we 'd want to consider is , you know , what we need to be careful of is unintended consequences of changing that , as well , if you see a shift to more kids bringing in school packed lunches as well . so , i think we want to consider the best way of doing that and consider through the consultation how we can go about it . suzy davies am : all right . so , it 's very pertinent to janet 's question , in that way . okay , so it 's mainly about sugar , but it could be about other things as well . okay . thanks . lynne neagle am : okay . the next questions are from janet anyway ; firstly , on the clinical obesity pathway . janet finch-saunders am : the 'healthy weight : healthy wales ' plan commits to a review of the clinical obesity pathway . what are the time frames for this review , and what do you think are the basic essentials of a clinical obesity pathway for children and young people ? dr frank atherton : we do have a pathway for managing overweight , and that 's been in place since about 2010 , i believe , and we do need to bring that up to date in terms of current knowledge and experiences . we 've challenged public health wales ; we 've asked public health wales to undertake a review of that pathway , and they are going through that process now . i 'm not sure of exactly the time frame that we have given them for that . nathan cook : we were asking them to review the pathway before we launch the final strategy in october because , obviously , what we want is for that to inform what that final strategy looks like . so , we 'll be looking probably early autumn for them to report back on that . dr frank atherton : the second point of your question about what are the essential elements , i mean , they are already there ; we need to tweak them and we need to make sure that they 're properly delivered . but it 's a tiered approach , so , having access to information through schools and through communities and into families is part of the first step of that . and then , if children are overweight , it 's a question about how they 're identified . there are questions about the ability of the public to recognise large children , so there may be an issue there . but when children are running into issues around weight , what kind of interventions can be put in , either through primary care or through communities through health visitors , et cetera ? and then of course we do have—and we 've started to shine a light on this , have n't we—the very overweight children . i do n't think we have enough in the way of targeted support to be able to support those . there are programmes available , but they 're perhaps not universally provided . so , i think there 's something about looking at our whole pathway , mapping out what the current evidence now shows us is needed , and then thinking about what is our provision in wales and what do we need to do to bring that up to the level of the places that are the best . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . the draft plan recognises the importance of the first 1,000 days , but it does n't appear to include any new proposals to help parents to enable lifestyle changes . it lists existing initiatives , such as the healthy child wales programme and breastfeeding action plan . are you satisfied that the draft plan does enough to address the influence that family and parents have on children 's healthy weight behaviours , particularly in the first 1,000 days ? dr frank atherton : well , the first 1,000 days are really critically in shaping lives , as i 'm sure you 'd agree . we are absolutely open to any other suggestions that the public or this committee have as to what more we can and should do . there are a number of things , the sorts of programmes you 've mentioned , that i think could be more effective . we 're currently looking at breastfeeding because it starts before birth , actually . we know that children who are breastfed are less likely to suffer from obesity in childhood and , indeed , to go on to be obese adults . so , we do need to go further on that . we do have some programmes—healthy working wales , et cetera—that need to be improved . if there are other interventions in other areas that we need to take , then we 'd be delighted to hear what they are , but those are the ones that have jumped out so far . nathan cook : can i just say— ? one of the proposals we 're looking for is , obviously , we know that during pregnancy it 's a really critical time when we can actually look to work with mothers . we know from looking at some of the behaviour change that it 's actually a really critical point when new mothers really start thinking about their lives , wanting the best for their child and their families . so , what we are thinking about is how we could develop some kind of approaches to that going forward . but we know our healthy start scheme is also a good lever for us , just in terms of how we can look to improve that kind of dietary offer at the earliest stage as well . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . finally , we know that for some families day-to-day challenges can make it difficult for them to make healthy choices , particularly for those on lower incomes and/or maybe using food banks . could the welsh government take bolder action to better support low-income families to eat healthily ? dr frank atherton : well , you 've touched on a really important point about inequalities because overweight and obesity is not evenly distributed across our population . it absolutely is more prevalent in more socioeconomically deprived communities , and that 's something that should really concern us all . so , it gets you to questions of availability of fresh food and produce ; it gets you to questions of formulation of products and whether value brands are less healthy than more premium brands . so , it cuts across all of those issues that we talked about in terms of settings and in terms of environment earlier . there is something about the affordability of good-quality healthy food that we need to think about . we do need to think in broad terms—broader terms than just obesity , but we do need to think in broad terms—about how we create a society where families have the wherewithal to lead healthy lives , and that gets you to really important questions about the minimum wage and income poverty . there 's no doubt in my mind—i 'm a public health professional—and there 's no doubt in my mind that economic success and health success go hand in hand . so , you speak to a very deep question there . in terms of what we can do through this particular consultation , there are some things in there about providing better access , but without tackling some of those deeper determinants of health , their impact will necessarily be limited . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . lynne neagle am : just finally from me , then , you referred earlier to the importance of making every contact count , but some stakeholders have told the committee that they struggle to do that because of difficulties in availability of people to refer to . is that a situation that you recognise and what , really , can we do to improve that situation ? dr frank atherton : well , it depends what you mean as to where to refer to . so , the health system obviously needs to respond to this issue . what we 're seeing across the nhs is a gradual transformation in primary care so that primary care is no longer about going to see your gp , it 's about going to see a practice where you have a range of health professionals . would i like to see more dietetic support , for example , in that setting ? absolutely i would . i think we need to think in terms of that pathway that we were talking about earlier , about access to that kind of advice and support , which can head off people getting into problems and kids getting into problems with weight issues . so , that question of redesign of the pathway really speaks to , i think , your point about , 'well , where do people go when they have problems with their weight ? ' that 's true for adults and it 's true for children as well . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . are there any other questions from members ? no . okay . well , can i thank you both very much for your attendance ? it 's been a really productive session . we appreciate your time . you will be sent a transcript to check for accuracy in due course , but thank you again . dr frank atherton : we 'll do that . thank you , chair , and thank you to the committee , because getting some input into the consultation from children 's perspectives , this would be one of the routes we would absolutely welcome . thank you . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you very much . item 3 , then , is papers to note . paper to note 1 is a letter from the welsh health specialised services committee on camhs tier 4 provision . paper to note 2 is a letter from the minister for health and social services also on camhs in-patient provision . paper to note 3 is a letter from the children commissioner for wales on tier 4 camhs provision . paper to note 4 is a letter from qualifications wales to the minister for education on qualifications for the new curriculum . paper to note 5 is a letter from me to the minister for education on the development of the new curriculum . paper to note 6 is a letter from me to the minister for education seeking clarification on the draft additional learning needs code . paper to note 7 is a letter from me to the minister for education seeking clarification on the response to our brexit report . paper to note 8 is a letter from the equality and human rights commission on a cumulative impact assessment briefing for committee , which has been offered . paper to note 9 is a letter from the chair of the petitions committee on a national taskforce for children ’ s mental health . paper to note 10 is a letter to the secretary of state for exiting the european union from the children ’ s commissioners for england , scotland , wales and northern ireland on the implications of brexit for children . there are a few that i 'd like to return to in private , but are members happy to note those ? thank you . okay . item 4 , then , is a motion under standing order 17.42 to resolve to exclude the public from the remainder of the meeting . are members content ? suzy davies am : yes . there 's somebody up there . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about evaluation , investment and responsibility of the draft strategy . </s> lynne neagle am : and you 've got a structured programme , have you , to roll that out ? okay . thank you . we 've got some questions now on leadership , and the first questions are from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : good morning . i 'll be speaking in welsh . the minister for health said yesterday , in answering a question from me on the chamber floor , that you gave him advice not to have a target in terms of reducing obesity among children . could you confirm that that 's what your advice was and tell us why you do n't think that a target is needed ? dr frank atherton : my advice was not that we do n't need a target—we may well need a target , and that 's one of the issues we need to consult on—but that the target that had been adopted in england and in scotland to halve the prevalence of obesity in children was more aspirational than deliverable , and that if we are to choose a target in wales , then we need to balance deliverability with challenge . we need a challenging environment . so , there is something about performance management , because i would be looking to not just the health system but the health and care system and to public services boards to think about how they 're delivering on this , and i think we can use targets to that . but they are one tool in the box that i would think we could use , and part of the consultation is to ask that question—'if we are to go down a route in wales of choosing a target , what might that look like ? ' sian gwenllian am : okay . so , to be clear , you 're not ruling out that maybe we would need a target . dr frank atherton : it 's certainly something that we could consider in terms of the final strategy . sian gwenllian am : and is that your opinion too ? okay . well , that is contrary to what i was told yesterday on the floor of the chamber by the minister , but there we go . i 'm glad to hear that you 're not ruling out having a target , because without a target , without something to aim for , how do we know that we 're getting there ? dr frank atherton : i think your point about evaluation is really important . whatever we produce at the end of this process—and we 're looking to produce a final strategy towards the autumn—we do need to have a strong evaluation . so , some metrics in there , it would seem , would be appropriate , but what those are , what the nature of those are , do we frame them as targets or ambitions—that 's the point we need to consult on . sian gwenllian am : okay . and the other point , of course , is the investment . if the government is going to be successful in terms of the aim of reducing childhood obesity , then it needs to fund and support the actions . have you made an assessment of the level of investment needed to implement this plan ? dr frank atherton : resourcing will be important . we currently do make investments in a number of areas that relate to child health generally , and , of course , obesity and overweight in particular . so , the question of resourcing is important . now , we ca n't quantify an absolute amount of resource that will be needed to deliver until we know exactly what 's going to come out of the consultation and what actions we might want to deliver to a greater degree in wales . a figure of £8 million to £10 million a year has been banded around as a broad kind of area of what we might need to invest , but that would need to be drawn from existing programmes . we need to look at existing programmes , how effective they are . can we make them more effective ? can we get better value from them ? and there may well be a case for new investment , and that 's a question , of course , that would need to be discussed with ministers when we 're producing the final strategy . nathan cook : but i think a key consideration as well is we already know there is investment across health boards in some kind of obesity-related services . so , i think what we really need to think about across wales is how we can drive greater scale , how we can look at current programmes in terms of making sure that they 're better evaluated , and how we can make sure that we 're also drawing up on the existing resources and capacity out there as well . sian gwenllian am : and does the level of investment depend on what the target is—what the goal is ? dr frank atherton : i do n't think you can necessarily just link the two . the issue of resourcing is one that 's there irrespective of whether we choose to put a target in place . sian gwenllian am : but how would we know that it 's being used effectively if there is n't something to aim for ? dr frank atherton : which brings you back to the question about evaluation . we need proper evaluation of the various programmes that we have . sian gwenllian am : yes , but without a target , how can you properly evaluate ? if you do n't know what you 're trying to do , how can you properly evaluate ? anyway , you 're open to suggestions about having a target , which is great . would you agree that government could use the revenue that 's being produced through the levy on soft drinks towards some of these efforts to— ? dr frank atherton : well , of course , there are some consequentials that are coming to the welsh government as part of the levy on sugary soft drinks . that funding , of course , is less than we had anticipated , and that reflects , actually , a success story because industry is reformulating , and so the amount of sugar in soft drinks is already starting to decrease , which is a good thing . but to your question : should we use the funding ? well , of course we should use funding . i 'm not personally in favour of hypothecation , i think i 'm more interested in the totality of resource that goes into public health programmes than into marginal resource . there are , of course , a number of initiatives that we currently fund through the general revenue . and when i think about obesity , i do n't just think about the relatively small marginal amounts of money that come in through whatever source , but i think about the totality of the £7 billion we spend in health and social care and how we can divert and channel some of that towards broad prevention initiatives in general , and towards tackling being overweight and obesity in particular . sian gwenllian am : you 're saying that it 's less than expected . could you give us any kind of figure ? dr frank atherton : i 'm sorry , could you repeat the question ? sian gwenllian am : you say that there is less money that 's come in through these consequentials from the levy , can you mention some sort of figure ? dr frank atherton : the figure that i have in mind is about £56 million that 's coming in in terms of revenue over a two-year period . but i 'd have to confirm that with the committee . what the anticipated— . when the sugar levy was first brought in , there was some modelling at uk level about what level of revenue that would bring , but it was based on the amount of sugar that was currently then in drinks and the fact that the sugar has reduced in drinks , i mean , the total amount available to the uk is less and hence our consequentials are less . nathan may have some precise figures . nathan cook : yes , i was going to say , there was a mid-year report done where the levy has raised £150 million to date since coming into force in april , and the original forecast was £520 million a year . so , i think that shows the amount of work that 's been done by industry around reformulation . sian gwenllian am : and the consequentials of that ? that is the consequential—£150 million . nathan cook : on a uk level . sian gwenllian am : yes , so what 's the welsh consequential ? lynne neagle am : fifty-six . sian gwenllian am : fifty-six ? gosh , that sounds a lot . anyway , it 's a good sum of money and you 're talking about investing £8 million to £10 million . so , obviously , you know , we can be more ambitious because there is money in that pot if that money was ring-fenced for this particular scheme . dr frank atherton : well , the resource is going to be a real issue that we need to address , and i think as nathan has said , there is funding of various initiatives currently in the system , and we need to look at that and make that as effective as possible . will there be a need for some additional resource ? there may well be , and that 's a question that we 'll have to look at in terms of the strategy when we develop it and have a discussion with ministers about the level of resourcing . lynne neagle am : thanks . siân . sian gwenllian am : the last question from me , about partnership working . you 're putting an emphasis on the whole-system approach in implementing the plan , how are you going to create a system that co-ordinates action and drives change across relevant partners , avoiding a situation where it 's everyone 's role , but nobody 's responsibility ? how are you going to avoid that ? </s>
<s> what did dr frank atherton think of having a target ? </s> lynne neagle am : and you 've got a structured programme , have you , to roll that out ? okay . thank you . we 've got some questions now on leadership , and the first questions are from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : good morning . i 'll be speaking in welsh . the minister for health said yesterday , in answering a question from me on the chamber floor , that you gave him advice not to have a target in terms of reducing obesity among children . could you confirm that that 's what your advice was and tell us why you do n't think that a target is needed ? dr frank atherton : my advice was not that we do n't need a target—we may well need a target , and that 's one of the issues we need to consult on—but that the target that had been adopted in england and in scotland to halve the prevalence of obesity in children was more aspirational than deliverable , and that if we are to choose a target in wales , then we need to balance deliverability with challenge . we need a challenging environment . so , there is something about performance management , because i would be looking to not just the health system but the health and care system and to public services boards to think about how they 're delivering on this , and i think we can use targets to that . but they are one tool in the box that i would think we could use , and part of the consultation is to ask that question—'if we are to go down a route in wales of choosing a target , what might that look like ? ' sian gwenllian am : okay . so , to be clear , you 're not ruling out that maybe we would need a target . dr frank atherton : it 's certainly something that we could consider in terms of the final strategy . sian gwenllian am : and is that your opinion too ? okay . well , that is contrary to what i was told yesterday on the floor of the chamber by the minister , but there we go . i 'm glad to hear that you 're not ruling out having a target , because without a target , without something to aim for , how do we know that we 're getting there ? </s>
<s> what did dr frank atherton say about investment ? </s> sian gwenllian am : okay . and the other point , of course , is the investment . if the government is going to be successful in terms of the aim of reducing childhood obesity , then it needs to fund and support the actions . have you made an assessment of the level of investment needed to implement this plan ? dr frank atherton : resourcing will be important . we currently do make investments in a number of areas that relate to child health generally , and , of course , obesity and overweight in particular . so , the question of resourcing is important . now , we ca n't quantify an absolute amount of resource that will be needed to deliver until we know exactly what 's going to come out of the consultation and what actions we might want to deliver to a greater degree in wales . a figure of £8 million to £10 million a year has been banded around as a broad kind of area of what we might need to invest , but that would need to be drawn from existing programmes . we need to look at existing programmes , how effective they are . can we make them more effective ? can we get better value from them ? and there may well be a case for new investment , and that 's a question , of course , that would need to be discussed with ministers when we 're producing the final strategy . nathan cook : but i think a key consideration as well is we already know there is investment across health boards in some kind of obesity-related services . so , i think what we really need to think about across wales is how we can drive greater scale , how we can look at current programmes in terms of making sure that they 're better evaluated , and how we can make sure that we 're also drawing up on the existing resources and capacity out there as well . sian gwenllian am : and does the level of investment depend on what the target is—what the goal is ? dr frank atherton : i do n't think you can necessarily just link the two . the issue of resourcing is one that 's there irrespective of whether we choose to put a target in place . sian gwenllian am : but how would we know that it 's being used effectively if there is n't something to aim for ? dr frank atherton : which brings you back to the question about evaluation . we need proper evaluation of the various programmes that we have . sian gwenllian am : yes , but without a target , how can you properly evaluate ? if you do n't know what you 're trying to do , how can you properly evaluate ? anyway , you 're open to suggestions about having a target , which is great . would you agree that government could use the revenue that 's being produced through the levy on soft drinks towards some of these efforts to— ? dr frank atherton : well , of course , there are some consequentials that are coming to the welsh government as part of the levy on sugary soft drinks . that funding , of course , is less than we had anticipated , and that reflects , actually , a success story because industry is reformulating , and so the amount of sugar in soft drinks is already starting to decrease , which is a good thing . but to your question : should we use the funding ? well , of course we should use funding . i 'm not personally in favour of hypothecation , i think i 'm more interested in the totality of resource that goes into public health programmes than into marginal resource . there are , of course , a number of initiatives that we currently fund through the general revenue . and when i think about obesity , i do n't just think about the relatively small marginal amounts of money that come in through whatever source , but i think about the totality of the £7 billion we spend in health and social care and how we can divert and channel some of that towards broad prevention initiatives in general , and towards tackling being overweight and obesity in particular . sian gwenllian am : you 're saying that it 's less than expected . could you give us any kind of figure ? dr frank atherton : i 'm sorry , could you repeat the question ? sian gwenllian am : you say that there is less money that 's come in through these consequentials from the levy , can you mention some sort of figure ? dr frank atherton : the figure that i have in mind is about £56 million that 's coming in in terms of revenue over a two-year period . but i 'd have to confirm that with the committee . what the anticipated— . when the sugar levy was first brought in , there was some modelling at uk level about what level of revenue that would bring , but it was based on the amount of sugar that was currently then in drinks and the fact that the sugar has reduced in drinks , i mean , the total amount available to the uk is less and hence our consequentials are less . nathan may have some precise figures . nathan cook : yes , i was going to say , there was a mid-year report done where the levy has raised £150 million to date since coming into force in april , and the original forecast was £520 million a year . so , i think that shows the amount of work that 's been done by industry around reformulation . sian gwenllian am : and the consequentials of that ? that is the consequential—£150 million . nathan cook : on a uk level . sian gwenllian am : yes , so what 's the welsh consequential ? lynne neagle am : fifty-six . sian gwenllian am : fifty-six ? gosh , that sounds a lot . anyway , it 's a good sum of money and you 're talking about investing £8 million to £10 million . so , obviously , you know , we can be more ambitious because there is money in that pot if that money was ring-fenced for this particular scheme . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about data on obesity in children and beyond and its use . </s> lynne neagle am : thank you . we 've got some questions now from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . delivery of the plan will be led by a national implementation board that will be accountable to ministers . which minister do you believe it should be accountable to , or , given the complexity of obesity , should the board be directly accountable to the first minister ? dr frank atherton : ultimately , the first minister will be responsible for this and will want to have a strong oversight of this . it is often framed as a health issue , and the minister , vaughan gething , has a strong personal commitment to this , i know . we 've talked extensively with him and with sports and recreation colleagues about that , so there 's a link there . it does cut across all portfolios , and so this is an issue that i have discussed with cabinet , and that collective ownership is really important , and will be , because it ca n't just sit in one domain . i think what you do need to have is you do need to have a lead organisation or a lead ministry , and i would see health as—i work within health , so i 'm perhaps biased , but i would see health as leading this , but it needs broad ownership across government . janet finch-saunders am : i know my colleague siân gwenllian mentioned earlier targets and things , but i know in wales we 're not too good at collecting data . what data is currently available on childhood obesity and what metrics will be used to measure progress against the plan 's objectives ? dr frank atherton : well , of course , our main data source is the child measurement programme , which collects information on children entering school aged four or five . that 's our main source of information . if we look at that data , it shows us— . well , i 'm sure you 're familiar with the statistics , but it 'll be just under a third of children at that age who are overweight or obese— janet finch-saunders am : could i just ask—sorry to interrupt—how up to date is that ? dr frank atherton : the last survey was just last year . nathan cook : the data was published last week . dr frank atherton : yes , the lastest data was out last week . janet finch-saunders am : it is pretty up to date . dr frank atherton : so , it 's pretty up to date , and what it shows— . it 's not getting radically worse—there 's always statistical variation in these things—but it 's not getting any better . and , for the first time last year , we did look at the question not just of children who were overweight or obese , but we actually singled out the proportion who are obese , severely obese . so we have a figure for that for the first time , which is about 12 per cent , which is quite shocking , in a way . janet finch-saunders am : it is shocking . dr frank atherton : so , that 's our main source of information . does that answer your question ? janet finch-saunders am : yes , but how will any gaps in your data be addressed ? dr frank atherton : well , one of the questions that are often asked is : could we measure more on a longitudinal basis ? by that i mean in england , for example , children are measured at school entry and then again at year 11—at age 11 or 12. , that kind of age group . and so you do have a longitudinal view over time of what 's happening to children . i think that would be helpful to us in wales , and it 's one of the questions in the consultation about whether we should expand that . obviously , that would have significant resource implications , not just for the funding , but also for schools and for the system to deliver it . but it 's something that maybe would help us in terms of better understanding and better evaluation—the point that was made earlier . nathan cook : and the other data we do have is the millennium cohort study , which has been released , for 14 and 15-year-olds . that 's going to be— . we 're starting to think about how we can utilise some of that data , looking at that longitudinal picture around children as well , which will be really helpful . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . you 've answered my next question . thank you . lynne neagle am : can i just ask about the child measurement programme ? the strategy commits to looking at whether we can have a second measurement taking place in wales . can you just tell us a bit more about your thinking on that and when you would see a second measurement taking place and how you would use that data ? </s>
<s> what did dr frank atherton say about the data ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : i know my colleague siân gwenllian mentioned earlier targets and things , but i know in wales we 're not too good at collecting data . what data is currently available on childhood obesity and what metrics will be used to measure progress against the plan 's objectives ? dr frank atherton : well , of course , our main data source is the child measurement programme , which collects information on children entering school aged four or five . that 's our main source of information . if we look at that data , it shows us— . well , i 'm sure you 're familiar with the statistics , but it 'll be just under a third of children at that age who are overweight or obese— janet finch-saunders am : could i just ask—sorry to interrupt—how up to date is that ? dr frank atherton : the last survey was just last year . nathan cook : the data was published last week . dr frank atherton : yes , the lastest data was out last week . janet finch-saunders am : it is pretty up to date . dr frank atherton : so , it 's pretty up to date , and what it shows— . it 's not getting radically worse—there 's always statistical variation in these things—but it 's not getting any better . and , for the first time last year , we did look at the question not just of children who were overweight or obese , but we actually singled out the proportion who are obese , severely obese . so we have a figure for that for the first time , which is about 12 per cent , which is quite shocking , in a way . </s>
<s> what did dr frank atherton 's answer to how would any gaps in their data be addressed ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : yes , but how will any gaps in your data be addressed ? dr frank atherton : well , one of the questions that are often asked is : could we measure more on a longitudinal basis ? by that i mean in england , for example , children are measured at school entry and then again at year 11—at age 11 or 12. , that kind of age group . and so you do have a longitudinal view over time of what 's happening to children . i think that would be helpful to us in wales , and it 's one of the questions in the consultation about whether we should expand that . obviously , that would have significant resource implications , not just for the funding , but also for schools and for the system to deliver it . but it 's something that maybe would help us in terms of better understanding and better evaluation—the point that was made earlier . nathan cook : and the other data we do have is the millennium cohort study , which has been released , for 14 and 15-year-olds . that 's going to be— . we 're starting to think about how we can utilise some of that data , looking at that longitudinal picture around children as well , which will be really helpful . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about legislation and sports infrastructural construction to make a healthy environment . </s> dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . in the draft plan , some of the measures in there suggest legislating for restricting price promotions and banning energy drinks , and that sort of thing . do you think that , if we go down that road , there 's going to be time within this assembly to introduce such legislation ? and , if not , what do you think might be the timescale for such legislation ? dr frank atherton : it may well be that there are things in wales that we might wish to legislate on , and you 've mentioned two of them , and they 're good examples . we would , obviously , need to undertake quite detailed consultation on those and , in a way , we need to mirror what 's happening in england and in scotland to some degree around the consultations they 're having on energy drinks . we also need to influence the issues that are not devolved to us and we seek to do that . as to your question of legislative time , i 'm not really in a position to answer that . what i could say is that legislation may well be one of the outcomes of the consultation . there may well be things that we wish to choose to legislate on . the timing of that will have to be subject to other pressures , and i come back to the point that legislation , of course , is one of the tools that we 've got—we need to deploy them all . dawn bowden am : sure , i understand that , that you could do other things . i know— . we 've heard from the government , on other calls for legislation , that the programme 's very tight , certainly for this term , so i was just wondering whether we might get that in , but okay . if i turn now to the planning system—and this might not be something that you have great deal of knowledge of ; i 'd just welcome your view on this , because , when we discussed with stakeholders , we talked about whether the planning system , for instance , could be used to , as an example , restrict hot food takeaways around schools and so on . would that be a measure that you would support , something like that ? dr frank atherton : i think it 's definitely something we want to look at and , of course , that question is asked in the consultation , so we would like to know people 's views on that . it 's an interesting one . i think there is a question—a really important question—about how we can use the planning system more effectively . i 've discussed with nathan on a number of occasions , with planning colleagues in welsh government and in local authorities , about the art of the possible , let 's say . there may be things that we could think about and we want to get those ideas through the consultation . the specific question around takeaways , particularly takeaways near schools , is often asked . i was very interested to see , up in the north-east , some time ago , that one of the local authorities up there did put a moratorium on the opening of new fast-food venues near to schools , or indeed in areas where levels of obesity and overweight were particularly high . i understand london is now—some london boroughs are now—experimenting with that as well . so , that gave me comfort , because maybe there are powers within local authorities that can be used more effectively . i think my view at the moment is that the jury 's kind of out on whether those are effective and how effective they 're going to be . but the fact that we have some initiatives around the uk does give us an opportunity to study that and to learn from experience perhaps and then , if it is shown to be beneficial , to think about that here in wales , yes . dawn bowden am : sure , because it will only be one of a suite of measures anyway . of itself , it would n't address the problem , but , added to other initiatives , i guess it would . can i just ask you briefly , then , about community sport infrastructure and , in particular , of new schools ? so , welsh government , as you know , has ploughed a huge amount of money into the twenty-first century schools programme . what we heard when we spoke to stakeholders recently , particularly headteachers , was that , in some of the new schools that have been built , we have n't had changing rooms and toilet facilities , for instance , built into the new buildings . so , if we 're going to try and utilise these buildings for general community activity to get kids and the wider public , actually , more active , do you think that 's something that we ought to be building in ? again , not your particular direct area of responsibility , but something that you might have an input into , is that , when we 're developing schools , we should be making sure that they have those kinds of facilities so that they become accessible to the wider public . is that something that you would be prepared to make a recommendation around ? dr frank atherton : well , it 's certainly a fascinating area and one that i think has a lot of potential . it goes— . you 're right to raise it in the context of schools , and i can understand why this committee would , but i think it goes beyond that , actually , into all developments in the public sector and how they 're developed and whether we 're building health into our environment , which perhaps is your starting point . one of the things that i was really pleased to see in terms of the public health ( wales ) act 2017 that was passed a couple of years ago was the use of health impact assessment as a tool , and we 're still working on how that will inform policy and how that will be applied in issues such as policy decisions through government , but also in more downstream issues about how we create the public infrastructure that the public can and should be using . and so i would like to see the use of health impact assessments to a much greater degree to inform those kinds of decisions . if you apply that kind of lens and you take the point , which is inherent in your question , i think , that schools are not just for kids , they 're for communities , then you would—it would lead you to a conclusion that you would perhaps design and build them in a different way . so , on a personal basis , i would certainly support your view that we should be looking to use the sports environment in schools in the same way as we use leisure centres . there are all kinds of barriers in there , and i understand all of that , and it 's not really my field , exactly as you say , but , as a matter of principle , i think it 's a good one to pursue . dawn bowden am : okay . thank you . and widening it out to other public services buildings as well . dr frank atherton : indeed . </s>
<s> what did dr frank atherton said about legislation to build a healthy environment ? </s> dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . in the draft plan , some of the measures in there suggest legislating for restricting price promotions and banning energy drinks , and that sort of thing . do you think that , if we go down that road , there 's going to be time within this assembly to introduce such legislation ? and , if not , what do you think might be the timescale for such legislation ? dr frank atherton : it may well be that there are things in wales that we might wish to legislate on , and you 've mentioned two of them , and they 're good examples . we would , obviously , need to undertake quite detailed consultation on those and , in a way , we need to mirror what 's happening in england and in scotland to some degree around the consultations they 're having on energy drinks . we also need to influence the issues that are not devolved to us and we seek to do that . as to your question of legislative time , i 'm not really in a position to answer that . what i could say is that legislation may well be one of the outcomes of the consultation . there may well be things that we wish to choose to legislate on . the timing of that will have to be subject to other pressures , and i come back to the point that legislation , of course , is one of the tools that we 've got—we need to deploy them all . dawn bowden am : sure , i understand that , that you could do other things . i know— . we 've heard from the government , on other calls for legislation , that the programme 's very tight , certainly for this term , so i was just wondering whether we might get that in , but okay . if i turn now to the planning system—and this might not be something that you have great deal of knowledge of ; i 'd just welcome your view on this , because , when we discussed with stakeholders , we talked about whether the planning system , for instance , could be used to , as an example , restrict hot food takeaways around schools and so on . would that be a measure that you would support , something like that ? </s>
<s> what did dawn bowden am mean when he talked about sports infrastructure ? </s> dawn bowden am : sure , because it will only be one of a suite of measures anyway . of itself , it would n't address the problem , but , added to other initiatives , i guess it would . can i just ask you briefly , then , about community sport infrastructure and , in particular , of new schools ? so , welsh government , as you know , has ploughed a huge amount of money into the twenty-first century schools programme . what we heard when we spoke to stakeholders recently , particularly headteachers , was that , in some of the new schools that have been built , we have n't had changing rooms and toilet facilities , for instance , built into the new buildings . so , if we 're going to try and utilise these buildings for general community activity to get kids and the wider public , actually , more active , do you think that 's something that we ought to be building in ? again , not your particular direct area of responsibility , but something that you might have an input into , is that , when we 're developing schools , we should be making sure that they have those kinds of facilities so that they become accessible to the wider public . is that something that you would be prepared to make a recommendation around ? dr frank atherton : well , it 's certainly a fascinating area and one that i think has a lot of potential . it goes— . you 're right to raise it in the context of schools , and i can understand why this committee would , but i think it goes beyond that , actually , into all developments in the public sector and how they 're developed and whether we 're building health into our environment , which perhaps is your starting point . one of the things that i was really pleased to see in terms of the public health ( wales ) act 2017 that was passed a couple of years ago was the use of health impact assessment as a tool , and we 're still working on how that will inform policy and how that will be applied in issues such as policy decisions through government , but also in more downstream issues about how we create the public infrastructure that the public can and should be using . and so i would like to see the use of health impact assessments to a much greater degree to inform those kinds of decisions . if you apply that kind of lens and you take the point , which is inherent in your question , i think , that schools are not just for kids , they 're for communities , then you would—it would lead you to a conclusion that you would perhaps design and build them in a different way . so , on a personal basis , i would certainly support your view that we should be looking to use the sports environment in schools in the same way as we use leisure centres . there are all kinds of barriers in there , and i understand all of that , and it 's not really my field , exactly as you say , but , as a matter of principle , i think it 's a good one to pursue . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about physical education and food provision for pupils in schools . </s> lynne neagle am : hefin . hefin david am : is that all right , chair ? lynne neagle am : you 've got the floor , hefin . hefin david am : thank you , chair . you make a commitment to embedding physical activity at an early stage in primary school education . what would that look like ? dr frank atherton : just in terms of the physical activity , i have to say it 's a really important dimension and we need to move further on . we know not enough of our children are physically active and they 're not meeting the various guidelines , so it 's really important . it does n't actually have as much of an impact on weight as the dietary issue . i 'd just say that . it 's really important for all sorts of reasons . it does have an impact on healthy weight , but it has a huge impact in terms of socialisation , in terms of mental health issues , et cetera , you know . so—i 'm sorry , i 've lost track of your question . nathan cook : i 'd just say that one thing we have got in train is , obviously , sport wales , public health wales and natural resources wales—we have them working together as a collaborative at the moment to look at how their joint delivery on physical activity can be taken forward more efficiently . so , one of the things they are looking at is obviously the schools programmes they do through eco-schools , the welsh network of healthy schools and the sports programme to really think about that physical activity and how we can have better join up in terms of the programmes that we 're already delivering as well . hefin david am : with that in mind , i 'm going to confess to you , chief medical officer , i did anything in school i could to avoid physical education lessons . i hated it . i did n't feel engaged with it . yet , two weeks ago , i played for the assembly rugby team—i wanted to get that in . the school sports survey , that would suggest that we 're still not hitting those targets with children . how can we get children more engaged with physical education in ways that— ? i felt completely alienated in school . dr frank atherton : well , you 're right , and many people go through that same journey and come to physical activity later in life , and that 's great if they do that . the sad reality is that many people do n't , and we also know that there are issues around the dropping off , particularly for girls , of physical activity towards the teenage years . so , there are specific moments that we need to understand . we do have a lot of information about these kinds of things . public health wales is very good at collating the information . we do need to turn that into programmes . i mean , at the heart of it , it 's about making sports and physical activity enjoyable and attractive to people . sometimes that 's easier , i sense , for boys than for girls , but we need to tailor things to different audiences . hefin david am : yes , that 's the trick , is n't it ? it 's about finding out what children enjoy doing . that could be quite a wide and varied range of things . is that the key ? dawn bowden am : it 's not all about organised team sports . hefin david am : yes . as dawn said , it 's not just about organised team sports . there are some very individual activities you could do . dr frank atherton : absolutely , yes . and that 's where i think— . i 'm delighted that sport wales has moved beyond . it 's not just about elite sports ; it 's about getting everybody engaged and active in sports , and that partnership with public health wales that nathan talked about is really important , because we need a population approach to driving physical activity . hefin david am : so , do you think , with that in mind , we need statutory guidance for schools on physical education ? dr frank atherton : again , i 'd look to the consultation as to whether there was an appetite for any kind of guidance . it may well be that that is something that could be considered . hefin david am : okay . and finally , with regard to free school meals to all pupils in primary and secondary schools , do you think that extending that to all pupils would be beneficial in providing a more varied diet for pupils ? dr frank atherton : i do n't have a personal view on that . i think it 's the quality of the food that kids are getting , whether that comes from home or through school , and whether it 's free or whether it 's paid for . i think it 's the quality of the food that we need to focus on . the question of children being hungry at school is a really important one and needs to be addressed at a national level . i think that 's a— hefin david am : so , you think that 's more about the provision of food for those who might not have access to it than providing a varied diet . dr frank atherton : i think it 's important that children have access to food , absolutely , if that 's your question , but we also need to look at the quality of the food and what 's in that food offer . hefin david am : but you do n't necessarily think universal provision would— . dr frank atherton : i do n't have a clear view on that . i know there 's a larger debate about that . </s>
<s> why did dr frank atherton make a commitment to embedding physical activity at an early stage in primary school education ? </s> hefin david am : thank you , chair . you make a commitment to embedding physical activity at an early stage in primary school education . what would that look like ? </s>
<s> what was dr frank atherton 's opinion on providing a more varied diet for pupils ? </s> hefin david am : so , do you think , with that in mind , we need statutory guidance for schools on physical education ? dr frank atherton : again , i 'd look to the consultation as to whether there was an appetite for any kind of guidance . it may well be that that is something that could be considered . hefin david am : okay . and finally , with regard to free school meals to all pupils in primary and secondary schools , do you think that extending that to all pupils would be beneficial in providing a more varied diet for pupils ? dr frank atherton : i do n't have a personal view on that . i think it 's the quality of the food that kids are getting , whether that comes from home or through school , and whether it 's free or whether it 's paid for . i think it 's the quality of the food that we need to focus on . the question of children being hungry at school is a really important one and needs to be addressed at a national level . i think that 's a— hefin david am : so , you think that 's more about the provision of food for those who might not have access to it than providing a varied diet . dr frank atherton : i think it 's important that children have access to food , absolutely , if that 's your question , but we also need to look at the quality of the food and what 's in that food offer . hefin david am : but you do n't necessarily think universal provision would— . dr frank atherton : i do n't have a clear view on that . i know there 's a larger debate about that . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> grad d : channel one . phd g : test . phd e : hello . grad d : channel three . phd g : test . phd a : uh - oh . professor f : so you think we 're going now , yes ? ok , good . alright going again uh so we 're gon na go around as before , and uh do do our digits . uh transcript one three one one dash one three three zero . { comment } three two three { comment } four seven six five { comment } five three one six two four one { comment } six seven { comment } seven { comment } eight { comment } nine zero nine four zero zero three { comment } zero one five eight { comment } one seven three five three { comment } two six eight zero { comment } three six two four three zero seven { comment } four { comment } five zero six nine four { comment } seven four { comment } eight five seven { comment } nine six one five { comment } o seven eight o two { comment } zero nine six zero four zero zero { comment } one { comment } two { comment } uh yeah , you do n't actually n need to say the name . grad c : ok , this is barry chen and i am reading transcript professor f : that 'll probably be bleeped out . so . that 's if these are anonymized , but yeah grad c : oh . { comment } ok . professor f : uh i mean not that there 's anything defamatory about uh eight five seven or or anything , but uh , anyway . uh so here 's what i have for i i was just jotting down things i think th w that we should do today . uh this is what i have for an agenda so far um , we should talk a little bit about the plans for the uh the field trip next week . uh a number of us are doing a field trip to uh uh ogi and uh mostly uh first though about the logistics for it . then maybe later on in the meeting we should talk about what we actually you know , might accomplish . uh uh , in and kind of go around see what people have been doing talk about that , a r progress report . um , essentially . um and then uh another topic i had was that uh uh uh dave here had uh said uh `` give me something to do . `` and i i have i have uh failed so far in doing that . and so maybe we can discuss that a little bit . if we find some holes in some things that that someone could use some help with , he 's he 's volunteering to help . phd a : i 've got to move a bunch of furniture . professor f : ok , always count on a serious comment from that corner . so , um , uh , and uh , then uh , talk a little bit about about disks and resource resource issues that that 's starting to get worked out . and then , anything else anybody has that is n't in that list ? uh grad d : i was just wondering , does this mean the battery 's dying and i should change it ? professor f : uh i think that means the battery 's o k . phd a : let me see . professor f : d do you grad d : oh ok , so th phd a : yeah , that 's good . you 're alright ? grad d : cuz it 's full . professor f : yeah . yeah . grad d : alright . professor f : yeah . yeah . it looks full of electrons . ok . plenty of electrons left there . ok , so , um , uh . ok , so , uh , i wanted to start this with this mundane thing . um uh i i it was it was kind of my bright idea to have us take a plane that leaves at seven twenty in the morning . grad c : oh , yeah , that 's right . professor f : um . uh this is uh the reason i did it uh was because otherwise for those of us who have to come back the same day it is really not much of a of a visit . uh so um the issue is how how how would we ever accomplish that ? uh what what what part of town do you live in ? grad c : um , i live in , um , the corner of campus . the , um , southeast corner . professor f : ok . ok , so would it be easier those of you who are not , you know , used to this area , it can be very tricky to get to the airport at at uh , you know , six thirty . um . so . would it be easier for you if you came here and i drove you ? yeah ? yeah , yeah , ok . phd g : yeah , perhaps , yeah . grad c : yeah . sure . phd e : yeah . professor f : ok , so if if everybody can get here at six . phd e : at six . professor f : yeah , i 'm afraid we need to do that to get there on time . grad c : six , ok . professor f : yeah , so . oh boy . anyway , so . phd a : will that be enough time ? professor f : yeah . yeah , so i 'll just pull up in front at six and just be out front . and , uh , and yeah , that 'll be plenty of time . it 'll take it it it wo n't be bad traffic that time of day and and uh phd a : i guess once you get past the bridge that that would be the worst . phd b : yeah , oakland . professor f : going to oakland . phd a : yeah . grad c : oakland . phd a : once you get past the turnoff to the bay bridge . professor f : bridge oh , the turnoff to the bridge phd a : yeah . professor f : wo n't even do that . phd b : yeah . professor f : i mean , just go down martin luther king . phd a : yeah . ok . mm - hmm . professor f : and then martin luther king to nine - eighty to eight - eighty , phd a : yeah . professor f : and it 's it 'd take us , tops uh thirty minutes to get there . phd a : oh , i professor f : so that leaves us fifty minutes before the plane it 'll just yeah . so great , ok so that 'll it 's i mean , it 's still not going to be really easy but well particularly for for uh for barry and me , we 're not we 're not staying overnight so we do n't need to bring anything particularly except for uh a pad of paper and so , and , uh you , two have to bring a little bit but uh you know , do n't do n't bring a footlocker and we 'll be ok so . grad c : s so just professor f : w you 're staying overnight . i figured you would n't need a great big suitcase , yeah . phd g : oh yeah . yeah . professor f : that 's sort of one night . so . anyway . ok . grad c : so , s six am , in front . professor f : six am in front . uh , i 'll be here . uh i 'll i 'll i 'll i 'll give you my phone number , if i 'm not here for a few m after a few minutes then grad c : wake you up . professor f : nah , i 'll be fine . i just , uh it for me it just means getting up a half an hour earlier than i usually do . not not not a lot , grad c : ok . wednesday . professor f : so ok , that was the real real important stuff . um , i i i figured maybe wait on the potential goals for the meeting uh until we talk about wh what 's been going on . so , uh , what 's been going on ? why do n't we start start over here . phd g : um . well , preparation of the french test data actually . so , it means that um , well , it is , uh , a digit french database of microphone speech , downsampled to eight kilohertz and i 've added noise to one part , with the actually the aurora - two noises . and , @ @ so this is a training part . and then the remaining part , i use for testing and with other kind of noises . so we can so this is almost ready . i 'm preparing the the htk baseline for this task . and , yeah . professor f : ok uh , so the htk base lines so this is using mel cepstra and so on , or ? yeah . ok . phd g : yeah . professor f : and again , i guess the p the plan is , uh , to uh then given this what 's the plan again ? phd g : the plan with these data ? professor f : with so so does i just remind me of what what you were going to do with the what what what what 's y you just described what you 've been doing . so if you could remind me of what you 're going to be doing . phd g : yeah . professor f : oh , this is yeah , yeah . phd g : uh , yeah . grad c : tell him about the cube . phd g : well . the cube ? i should tell him about the cube ? grad c : yeah . professor f : oh ! cube . yeah . phd g : yeah . phd e : fill in the cube . phd g : uh we actually we want to , mmm , uh , uh , analyze three dimensions , the feature dimension , the training data dimension , and the test data dimension . um . well , what we want to do is first we have number for each uh task . so we have the um , ti - digit task , the italian task , the french task and the finnish task . professor f : yeah ? phd g : so we have numbers with uh systems i mean i mean neural networks trained on the task data . and then to have systems with neural networks trained on , uh , data from the same language , if possible , with , well , using a more generic database , which is phonetically phonetically balanced , and . um . professor f : so - so we had talked i guess we had talked at one point about maybe , the language id corpus ? phd g : yeah . so . professor f : is that a possibility for that ? phd g : ye - uh yeah , but , uh these corpus , w w there is a callhome and a callfriend also , the callfriend is for language ind identification . well , anyway , these corpus are all telephone speech . so , um . this could be a a problem for why ? because uh , uh , the the speechdat databases are not telephone speech . they are downsampled to eight kilohertz but but they are not uh with telephone bandwidth . professor f : yeah . that 's really funny is n't it ? i mean cuz th this whole thing is for developing new standards for the telephone . grad c : telephone . professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah , but the the idea is to compute the feature before the before sending them to the well , you do n't do not send speech , you send features , computed on th the the device , professor f : mm - hmm . yeah , i know , but the reason phd g : or well . professor f : oh i see , so your point is that it 's it 's it 's uh the features are computed locally , and so they are n't necessarily telephone bandwidth , uh or telephone distortions . phd g : so you yeah . yeah . phd a : did you happen to find out anything about the ogi multilingual database ? professor f : yeah , that 's wh that 's wh that 's what i meant . phd g : yeah , it 's professor f : i said @ @ , there 's there 's there 's an ogi language id , not the not the , uh the callfriend is a is a , uh , ldc w thing , right ? phd g : yea - yeah , there are also two other databases . one they call the multi - language database , and another one is a twenty - two language , something like that . but it 's also telephone speech . phd a : oh , they are ? ok . phd g : uh . well , nnn . professor f : but i 'm not sure phd g : so professor f : i mean , we ' r e e the bandwidth should n't be such an issue right ? because e e this is downsampled and and filtered , right ? so it 's just the fact that it 's not telephone . and there are so many other differences between these different databases . i mean some of this stuff 's recorded in the car , and some of it 's i mean there 's there 's many different acoustic differences . so i 'm not sure if . i mean , unless we 're going to include a bunch of car recordings in the in the training database , i 'm not sure if it 's completely rules it out phd g : yeah . professor f : if our if we if our major goal is to have phonetic context and you figure that there 's gon na be a mismatch in acoustic conditions does it make it much worse f to sort of add another mismatch , if you will . uh , i i i i guess the question is how important is it to for us to get multiple languages uh , in there . phd g : yeah , but mm - hmm . um . yeah . well , actually , for the moment if we w do not want to use these phone databases , we we already have uh english , spanish and french uh , with microphone speech . professor f : mm - hmm . yeah . so that 's what you 're thinking of using is sort of the multi the equivalent of the multiple ? phd g : well . yeah , for the multilingual part we were thinking of using these three databases . professor f : and for the difference in phonetic context that you ? provide that . phd g : well , this uh , actually , these three databases are um generic databases . phd e : yeah . phd g : so w f for for uh italian , which is close to spanish , french and , i i uh , ti - digits we have both uh , digits training data and also more general training data . so . mmm . professor f : well , we also have this broadcast news that we were talking about taking off the disk , which is is microphone data for for english . phd g : yeah . yeah , perhaps yeah , there is also timit . professor f : yeah . phd g : we could use timit . professor f : right . yeah , so there 's plenty of stuff around . ok , so anyway , th the basic plan is to , uh , test this cube . yes . phd g : yeah . phd e : to fill in the cube . professor f : to fill i fill it in , yeah . ok . phd g : yeah , and perhaps , um we were thinking that perhaps the cross - language issue is not , uh , so big of a issue . well , w w we perhaps we should not focus too much on that cross - language stuff . i mean , uh , training training a net on a language and testing a for another language . professor f : uh - huh . but that 's phd g : mmm . perhaps the most important is to have neural networks trained on the target languages . but , uh , with a general database general databases . u so that th well , the the guy who has to develop an application with one language can use the net trained o on that language , or a generic net , professor f : uh , depen it depen it depends how you mean `` using the net `` . phd g : but not trained on a professor f : so , if you 're talking about for producing these discriminative features that we 're talking about you ca n't do that . because because the what they 're asking for is is a feature set . right ? and so , uh , we 're the ones who have been weird by by doing this training . but if we say , `` no , you have to have a different feature set for each language , `` i think this is ver gon na be very bad . phd g : yeah . you think so . grad c : that 's professor f : so oh yeah . yeah . i mean , in principle , i mean conceptually , it 's sort of like they want a re @ @ { comment } well , they want a replacement for mel cepstra . so , we say `` ok , this is the year two thousand , we 've got something much better than mel cepstra . it 's , you know , gobbledy - gook . `` ok ? and so we give them these gobbledy - gook features but these gobbledy - gook features are supposed to be good for any language . cuz you do n't know who 's gon na call , and you know , i mean so it 's it 's it 's , uh , uh how do you know what language it is ? somebody picks up the phone . so thi this is their image . someone picks up the phone , right ? phd g : well , i { comment } chh professor f : and and he he picks up the ph phd g : yeah , but the the application is there is a target language for the application . professor f : yeah . y y y phd g : so , if a professor f : well . but , no but , y you you pick up the phone , phd g : well . professor f : you talk on the phone , phd g : yeah ? professor f : and it sends features out . ok , so the phone does n't know what a what what your language is . phd g : yeah , if yeah . if it 's th in the phone , but professor f : but that 's the image that they have . phd g : well , it that that could be th at the server 's side , professor f : it could be , phd g : and , well . mmm , yeah . professor f : but that 's the image they have , right ? so that 's that 's i mean , one could argue all over the place about how things really will be in ten years . but the particular image that the cellular industry has right now is that it 's distributed speech recognition , where the , uh , uh , probabilistic part , and and s semantics and so forth are all on the servers , and you compute features of the uh , on the phone . so that 's that 's what we 're involved in . we might might or might not agree that that 's the way it will be in ten years , but that 's that 's that 's what they 're asking for . so so i think that th th it is an important issue whether it works cross - language . now , it 's the ogi , uh , folks ' perspective right now that probably that 's not the biggest deal . and that the biggest deal is the , um envir acoustic - environment mismatch . and they may very well be right , but i i was hoping we could just do a test and determine if that was true . if that 's true , we do n't need to worry so much . maybe maybe we have a couple languages in the training set and that gives us enough breadth uh , uh , that that that the rest does n't matter . um , the other thing is , uh , this notion of training to uh which i i guess they 're starting to look at up there , { comment } training to something more like articulatory features . uh , and if you have something that 's just good for distinguishing different articulatory features that should just be good across , you know , a wide range of languages . phd g : yeah . professor f : uh , but yeah , so i do n't th i know unfortunately i do n't i see what you 're comi where you 're coming from , i think , but i do n't think we can ignore it . phd g : so we we really have to do test with a real cross - language . i mean , tr for instance training on english and testing on italian , or or we can train or else , uh , can we train a net on , uh , a range of languages and which can include the test the test @ @ the target language , grad c : test on an unseen . phd g : or professor f : yeah , so , um , there 's there 's , uh this is complex . so , ultimately , uh , as i was saying , i think it does n't fit within their image that you switch nets based on language . now , can you include , uh , the the target language ? phd g : yeah . professor f : um , from a purist 's standpoint it 'd be nice not to because then you can say when because surely someone is going to say at some point , `` ok , so you put in the german and the finnish . uh , now , what do you do , uh , when somebody has portuguese ? `` you know ? um , and uh , however , you are n't it is n't actually a constraint in this evaluation . so i would say if it looks like there 's a big difference to put it in , then we 'd make note of it , and then we probably put in the other , because we have so many other problems in trying to get things to work well here that that , you know , it 's not so bad as long as we we note it and say , `` look , we did do this `` . phd a : and so , ideally , what you 'd wan na do is you 'd wan na run it with and without the target language and the training set for a wide range of languages . professor f : uh . yeah . phd g : yeah , perhaps . yeah . phd a : and that way you can say , `` well , `` you know , `` we 're gon na build it for what we think are the most common ones `` , professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah . phd a : but if that somebody uses it with a different language , you know , `` here 's what 's you 're l here 's what 's likely to happen . `` professor f : yeah , cuz the truth is , is that it 's it 's not like there are i mean , al although there are thousands of languages , uh , from uh , uh , the point of view of cellular companies , there are n't . phd a : right . professor f : there 's you know , there 's fifty or something , you know ? so , uh , an and they are n't you know , with the exception of finnish , which i guess it 's pretty different from most most things . uh , it 's it 's , uh most of them are like at least some of the others . and so , our guess that spanish is like italian , and and so on . i guess finnish is a is is a little bit like hungarian , supposedly , right ? phd a : i do n't know anything about finnish . professor f : or is i think well , i kn oh , well i know that h uh , h i mean , i 'm not a linguist , but i guess hungarian and finnish and one of the one of the languages from the former soviet union are in this sort of same family . but they 're just these , you know , uh countries that are pretty far apart from one another , have i guess , people rode in on horses and brought their phd g : the yeah . grad c : oh , my turn . professor f : your turn . grad c : oh , ok . um , let 's see , i i spent the last week , uh , looking over stephane 's shoulder . and and understanding some of the data . i re - installed , um , um , htk , the free version , so , um , everybody 's now using three point o , which is the same version that , uh , ogi is using . professor f : oh , good . grad c : yeah . so , without without any licensing big deals , or anything like that . and , um , so we 've been talking about this this , uh , cube thing , and it 's beginning more and more looking like the , uh , the borge cube thing . it 's really gargantuan . um , but i i 'm am i professor f : so are are you going to be assimilated ? phd a : resistance is futile . grad c : exactly . um , yeah , so i i 've been looking at , uh , uh , timit stuff . um , the the stuff that we 've been working on with timit , trying to get a , um a labels file so we can , uh , train up a train up a net on timit and test , um , the difference between this net trained on timit and a net trained on digits alone . um , and seeing if if it hurts or helps . professor f : mm - hmm . grad c : anyway . professor f : and again , when y just to clarify , when you 're talking about training up a net , you 're talking about training up a net for a tandem approach ? grad c : yeah , yeah . um . mm - hmm . professor f : and and the inputs are plp and delta and that sort of thing , grad c : well , the inputs are one dimension of the cube , professor f : or ? grad c : which , um , we 've talked about it being , uh , plp , um , m f c cs , um , j - jrasta , jrasta - lda professor f : yeah , but your initial things you 're making one choice there , grad c : yeah , professor f : right ? grad c : right . professor f : which is plp , or something ? grad c : um , i i have n't i have n't decided on on the initial thing . professor f : yeah . grad c : probably probably something like plp . yeah . professor f : yeah . um , so so you take plp and you you , uh , do it uh , you you , uh , use htk with it with the transformed features using a neural net that 's trained . and the training could either be from digits itself or from timit . grad c : right . professor f : and that 's the and , and th and then the testing would be these other things which which which might be foreign language . grad c : right . right . professor f : i see . i i i get in the picture about the cube . grad c : yeah . maybe ok . uh - huh . professor f : ok . um , i mean , those listening to this will not have a picture either , so , um , i guess i 'm i 'm not any worse off . but but at some point somebody should just show me the cube . it sounds s i i get i think i get the general idea of it , grad c : yeah , yeah , professor f : yeah . phd a : so , when you said that you were getting the labels for timit , { comment } um , are y what do you mean by that ? grad c : b may mm - hmm . oh , i 'm just i 'm just , uh , transforming them from the , um , the standard timit transcriptions into into a nice long huge p - file to do training . phd a : mmm . were the digits , um , hand - labeled for phones ? grad c : um , the the digits phd a : or were they those labels automatically derived ? grad c : oh yeah , those were those were automatically derived by by dan using , um , embedded embedded training and alignment . professor f : ah , but which dan ? grad c : uh , ellis . right ? professor f : ok . ok . grad c : yeah . so . phd a : i was just wondering because that test you 're t grad c : uh - huh . phd a : i i think you 're doing this test because you want to determine whether or not , uh , having s general speech performs as well as having specific speech . grad c : that 's right . professor f : well , especially when you go over the different languages again , because you 'd the different languages have different words for the different digits , phd a : mm - hmm . and i was professor f : so it 's phd a : yeah , so i was just wondering if the fact that timit you 're using the hand - labeled stuff from timit might be confuse the results that you get . professor f : i i think it would , but but on the other hand it might be better . phd a : right , but if it 's better , it may be better because it was hand - labeled . professor f : oh yeah , but still @ @ probably use it . phd a : yeah . ok . professor f : i mean , you know , i i i guess i 'm sounding cavalier , but i mean , i think the point is you have , uh , a bunch of labels and and they 're han hand uh hand - marked . uh , i guess , actually , timit was not entirely hand - marked . it was automatically first , and then hand hand - corrected . phd a : oh , ok . professor f : but but , um , uh , it it , um , it might be a better source . so , i it 's you 're right . it would be another interesting scientific question to ask , `` is it because it 's a broad source or because it was , you know , carefully ? `` phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : uh . and that 's something you could ask , but given limited time , i think the main thing is if it 's a better thing for going across languages on this training tandem system , phd a : yeah . right . professor f : then it 's probably phd a : what about the differences in the phone sets ? grad c : uh , between languages ? phd a : no , between timit and the the digits . grad c : oh , um , right . well , there 's a mapping from the sixty - one phonemes in timit to to fifty - six , the icsi fifty - six . phd e : sixty - one . phd a : oh , ok . i see . grad c : and then the digits phonemes , um , there 's about twenty twenty - two or twenty - four of them ? is that right ? phd a : out of that fifty - six ? grad c : out of that fifty - six . phd a : oh , ok . grad c : yeah . so , it 's it 's definitely broader , yeah . phd g : but , actually , the issue of phoneti phon uh phone phoneme mappings will arise when we will do severa use several languages phd e : yeah . phd g : because you well , some phonemes are not , uh , in every languages , and so we plan to develop a subset of the phonemes , uh , that includes , uh , all the phonemes of our training languages , phd a : mm - hmm . phd g : and use a network with kind of one hundred outputs or something like that . professor f : mm - hmm . you mean a superset , sort of . phd g : uh , yeah , professor f : yeah . yeah . phd g : superset , phd e : yeah . i th i looks the sampa sampa phone . phd g : yeah . phd e : sampa phone ? for english uh american english , and the the the language who have more phone are the english . phd g : yeah . phd e : of the these language . but n for example , in spain , the spanish have several phone that d does n't appear in the e english and we thought to complete . but for that , it needs we must r h do a lot of work because we need to generate new tran transcription for the database that we have . professor f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd b : other than the language , is there a reason not to use the timit phone set ? cuz it 's larger ? as opposed to the icsi phone set ? grad c : oh , you mean why map the sixty - one to the fifty - six ? phd b : yeah . grad c : i do n't know . i have professor f : um , i forget if that happened starting with you , or was it o or if it was eric , afterwards who did that . but i think , basically , there were several of the phones that were just hardly ever there . phd a : yeah , and i think some of them , they were making distinctions between silence at the end and silence at the beginning , when really they 're both silence . i th i think it was things like that that got it mapped down to fifty - six . professor f : yeah , especially in a system like ours , which is a discriminative system . you know , you 're really asking this net to learn . phd b : yeah . phd a : yeah . professor f : it 's it 's kind of hard . phd a : there 's not much difference , really . and the ones that are gone , i think are i think there was they also in timit had like a glottal stop , which was basically a short period of silence , phd b : mm - hmm . phd a : and so . phd b : well , we have that now , too , right ? phd a : i do n't know . phd b : yeah . professor f : i it 's actually pretty common that a lot of the recognition systems people use have things like like , say thirty - nine , phone symbols , right ? uh , and then they get the variety by by bringing in the context , the phonetic context . uh . so we actually have an unusually large number in in what we tend to use here . um . so , a a actually maybe now you 've got me sort of intrigued . what there 's can you describe what what 's on the cube ? grad c : yeah , w i th i think that 's a good idea professor f : i mean grad c : to to talk about the whole cube professor f : yeah , yeah . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad c : and maybe we could sections in the cube for people to work on . professor f : yeah . yeah . grad c : um , ok . uh , do you wan na do it ? professor f : ok , so even even though the meeting recorder does n't does n't , uh and since you 're not running a video camera we wo n't get this , but if you use a board it 'll help us anyway . uh , point out one of the limitations of this medium , but you 've got the wireless on , grad c : yeah , i have the wireless . professor f : right ? yeah , so you can walk around . grad c : ok . can y can you walk around too ? no . ok , well , um , professor f : uh , he ca n't , actually , but grad c : s basically , the the cube will have three dimensions . professor f : he 's tethered . grad c : the first dimension is the the features that we 're going to use . and the second dimension , um , is the training corpus . and that 's the training on the discriminant neural net . um and the last dimension happens to be professor f : yeah and again yeah . so the the training for htk is always that 's always set up for the individual test , right ? that there 's some training data and some test data . so that 's different than this . grad c : right , right . this is this is for for ann only . and , yeah , the training for the htk models is always , uh , fixed for whatever language you 're testing on . professor f : right . grad c : and then , there 's the testing corpus . so , then i think it 's probably instructive to go and and and show you the features that we were talking about . um , so , let 's see . help me out with with what ? plp ? ok . phd g : uh , jrasta . grad c : jrasta . phd g : and jrasta - lda . grad c : jrasta - lda . phd g : um , multi - band . grad c : multi - band . phd g : so there would be multi - band before , um before our network , i mean . grad c : yeah , just the multi - band features , right ? phd g : and grad c : yeah . phd g : yeah . professor f : uh - huh . ah . ah . phd g : so , something like , uh , s tct within bands and well . and then multi - band after networks . meaning that we would have , uh , neural networks , uh , discriminant neural networks for each band . uh , yeah . and using the the outputs of these networks or the linear outputs or something like that . uh , yeah . phd a : what about mel cepstrum ? or is that grad c : oh , um phd a : you do n't include that because it 's part of the base or something ? phd e : yeah databases . professor f : well , y you do have a baseline system that 's m that 's mel cepstra , phd e : yeah . professor f : right ? phd e : mm - hmm . phd g : but , uh , well , not for the the ann . i mean so , yeah , we could we could add mfcc also . grad c : we could add professor f : probably should . i mean at least at least conceptually , you know , it does n't meant you actually have to do it , phd g : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor f : but conceptually it makes sense as a as a base line . phd a : it 'd be an interesting test just to have just to do mfcc with the neural net phd e : without the phd a : and everything else the same . phd e : yeah . phd a : compare that with just m - mfcc without the the net . phd g : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : i think i think dan did some of that . um , in his previous aurora experiments . and with the net it 's it 's wonderful . without the net it 's just baseline . professor f : um , i think ogi folks have been doing that , too . d because i think that for a bunch of their experiments they used , uh , mel cepstra , actually . grad c : yeah . yeah . professor f : um , of course that 's there and this is here and so on . ok ? grad c : ok . um , for the training corpus corpus , um , we have , um , the the d digits from the various languages . um , english spanish um , french what else do we have ? phd g : and the finnish . grad c : finnish . phd a : where did th where did that come from ? phd e : and italian . phd a : digits ? phd e : uh , no , italian no . italian no . grad c : oh . italian . phd e : i italian yes . italian ? professor f : italian . phd a : is that was that distributed with aurora , or ? grad c : one l or two l 's ? phd a : where did that ? professor f : the newer one . phd g : so english , uh , finnish and italian are aurora . professor f : yeah . phd g : and spanish and french is something that we can use in addition to aurora . uh , well . professor f : yeah , so carmen brought the spanish , and stephane brought the french . grad c : ok . and , um , oh yeah , and professor f : is it french french or belgian french ? there 's a phd g : it 's , uh , french french . grad c : french french . phd e : like mexican spain and spain . professor f : yeah . phd b : or swiss . phd e : i think that is more important , phd b : swiss - german . phd e : mexican spain . because more people professor f : yeah . yeah , probably so . phd e : yeah . professor f : yeah . yeah , herve always insists that belgian is i is absolutely pure french , has nothing to do with but he says those those those parisians talk funny . phd g : yeah , yeah , yeah . they have an accent . professor f : yeah they they do , yeah . yeah . but then he likes belgian fries too , so . ok . grad c : and then we have , uh , um , broader broader corpus , um , like timit . timit so far , phd e : and spanish too . grad c : right ? spanish oh , spanish stories ? phd e : albayzin is the name . phd a : what about ti - digits ? grad c : um , ti - digits uh all these aurora f d data p data is from is derived from ti - digits . phd a : uh - huh . oh . oh ok . grad c : um , basically , they they corrupted it with , uh , different kinds of noises at different snr levels . phd a : ah . i see . grad c : yeah . professor f : y and i think stephane was saying there 's there 's some broader s material in the french also ? phd g : yeah , we cou we could use yeah . the french data . phd e : spanish stories ? grad c : sp - not spanish stories ? phd e : no . no . albayz professor f : spanish grad c : spanish something . phd e : yeah . phd b : did the aurora people actually corrupt it themselves , or just specify the signal and the signal - t grad c : they they corrupted it , um , themselves , but they also included the the noise files for us , right ? or phd g : yeah . grad c : so we can go ahead and corrupt other things . professor f : i 'm just curious , carmen i mean , i could n't tell if you were joking or i is it is it mexican spanish , phd e : no no no no . professor f : or is it phd e : no no no no . professor f : oh , no , no . it 's it 's spanish from spain , spanish . phd e : spanish from spain . professor f : yeah , ok . grad c : from spain . professor f : alright . spanish from spain . yeah , we 're really covered there now . ok . and the french from france . phd g : yeah , the no , the french is f yeah , from , uh , paris , grad c : oh , from paris , ok . professor f : yeah . grad c : and timit 's from lots of different places . professor f : from ti . from i it 's from texas . so may maybe it 's phd b : from the deep south . professor f : so - s so it 's not really from the us either . grad c : yeah . professor f : is that ? ok . grad c : yeah . ok . and , um , with within the training corporas um , we 're , uh , thinking about , um , training with noise . so , incorporating the same kinds of noises that , um , aurora is in incorporating in their , um in their training corpus . um , i do n't think we we 're given the , uh the unseen noise conditions , though , right ? professor f : i think what they were saying was that , um , for this next test there 's gon na be some of the cases where they have the same type of noise as you were given before hand and some cases where you 're not . grad c : like mm - hmm . ok . phd g : mm - hmm . professor f : so , presumably , that 'll be part of the topic of analysis of the the test results , is how well you do when it 's matching noise and how well you do where it 's not . grad c : right . professor f : i think that 's right . grad c : so , i guess we ca n't train on on the the unseen noise conditions . professor f : well , not if it 's not seen , grad c : right . if not if it 's unseen . professor f : yeah . grad c : yeah . professor f : ok . i mean , i i i i it does seem to me that a lot of times when you train with something that 's at least a little bit noisy it can it can help you out in other kinds of noise even if it 's not matching just because there 's some more variance that you 've built into things . but , but , uh , phd g : mm - hmm . professor f : uh , exactly how well it will work will depend on how near it is to what you had ahead of time . so . ok , so that 's your training corpus , phd g : mm - hmm . professor f : and then your testing corpus ? grad c : um , the testing corporas are , um , just , um , the same ones as aurora testing . and , that includes , um , the english spa - um , italian . finnish . phd e : finnish . grad c : uh , we ' r we 're gon na get german , right ? ge - { comment } at the final test will have german . professor f : well , so , yeah , the final test , on a guess , is supposed to be german and danish , phd g : uh , yeah . professor f : right ? grad c : right . phd g : the s yeah , the spanish , perhaps , grad c : spanish . oh yeah , we can we can test on s spanish . phd g : we will have . yeah . but the the aurora spanish , i mean . grad c : oh yeah . mm - hmm . professor f : oh , there 's a there 's spanish testing in the aurora ? phd g : uh , not yet , but , uh , yeah , uh , e phd e : yeah , it 's preparing . phd g : pre they are preparing it , phd e : they are preparing . phd g : and , well , according to hynek it will be we will have this at the end of november , or um . professor f : ok , so , uh , something like seven things in each , uh each column . phd g : yeah professor f : so that 's , uh , three hundred and forty - three , uh , different systems that are going to be developed . there 's three of you . grad c : yeah . one hundred each , about . professor f : uh , so that 's hundred and hundred and fourteen each . grad d : what a what about noise conditions ? professor f : what ? grad d : w do n't we need to put in the column for noise conditions ? professor f : are you just trying to be difficult ? grad d : no , i just do n't understand . grad c : well , th uh , when when i put these testings on there , i 'm assumi professor f : i 'm just kidding . yeah . grad c : there - there 's three three tests . um , type - a , type - b , and type - c . and they 're all they 're all gon na be test tested , um , with one training of the htk system . um , there 's a script that tests all three different types of noise conditions . test - a is like a matched noise . test - b is a is a slightly mismatched . and test - c is a , um , mismatched channel . grad d : and do we do all our training on clean data ? grad c : um , no , no , phd e : also , we can clean that . grad c : we 're we 're gon na be , um , training on the noise files that we do have . professor f : so , um yeah , so i guess the question is how long does it take to do a a training ? i mean , it 's not totally crazy t i mean , these are a lot of these are built - in things and we know we have programs that compute plp , we have msg , we have jra you know , a lot of these things will just kind of happen , wo n't take uh a huge amount of development , it 's just trying it out . so , we actually can do quite a few experiments . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : but how how long does it take , do we think , for one of these { comment } trainings ? grad c : that 's a good question . phd a : what about combinations of things ? professor f : oh yeah , that 's right . i mean , cuz , so , for instance , i think the major advantage of msg yeah , good point . a major advantage of msg , i see , th that we 've seen in the past is combined with plp . phd e : yeah . grad c : now , this is turning into a four - dimensional cube ? phd a : well , you just select multiple things on the one dimension . phd b : or you just add it to the features . grad c : just phd e : here . grad c : oh , yeah . ok . professor f : yeah , so , i mean , you do n't wan na , uh let 's see , seven choose two would be , uh , twenty - one different combinations . um . phd b : it 's not a complete set of combinations , though , professor f : probably phd b : right ? it 's not a complete set of combinations , though , professor f : what ? phd b : right ? professor f : yeah , i hope not . yeah , there 's grad c : that would be professor f : uh , yeah , so plp and msg i think we definitely wan na try cuz we 've had a lot of good experience with putting those together . phd e : mm - hmm . professor f : um . yeah . phd a : when you do that , you 're increasing the size of the inputs to the net . do you have to reduce the hidden layer , or something ? professor f : well , so i mean , so i it does n't increase the number of trainings . phd a : no , no , i 'm i 'm just wondering about number of parameters in the net . do you have to worry about keeping that the same , or ? professor f : uh , i do n't think so . phd b : there 's a computation limit , though , is n't there ? professor f : yeah , i mean , it 's just more compu excuse me ? phd b : is n't there like a limit on the computation load , or d latency , or something like that for aurora task ? professor f : oh yeah , we have n't talked about any of that at all , have we ? yeah , so , there 's not really a limit . what it is is that there 's there 's , uh it 's just penalty , you know ? that that if you 're using , uh , a megabyte , then they 'll say that 's very nice , but , of course , it will never go on a cheap cell phone . um . and , u uh , i think the computation is n't so much of a problem . i think it 's more the memory . uh , and , expensive cell phones , exa expensive hand - helds , and so forth , are gon na have lots of memory . so it 's just that , uh , these people see the the cheap cell phones as being still the biggest market , so . phd b : mm - hmm . professor f : um . but , yeah , i was just realizing that , actually , it does n't explode out , um it 's not really two to the seventh . but it 's but but i i it does n't really explode out the number of trainings cuz these were all trained individually . right ? so , uh , if you have all of these nets trained some place , then , uh , you can combine their outputs and do the kl transformation and so forth grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : and and , uh so , what it it blows out is the number of uh testings . and , you know and the number of times you do that last part . but that last part , i think , is so has got ta be pretty quick , so . uh . right ? i mean , it 's just running the data through phd a : but wh what about a net that 's trained on multiple languages , though ? professor f : well , you got ta do the kl transformation , phd g : eight y professor f : but phd a : is that just separate nets for each language then combined , or is that actually one net trained on ? phd e : necessary to put in . professor f : good question . phd g : uh , probably one net . well . uh . professor f : one would think one net , but we 've i do n't think we 've tested that . right ? phd g : so , in the broader training corpus we can we can use , uh , the three , or , a combination of of two two languages . phd e : database three . phd a : in one net . mm - hmm . phd g : yeah . professor f : yeah , so , i guess the first thing is if w if we know how much a how long a a training takes , if we can train up all these these combinations , uh , then we can start working on testing of them individually , and in combination . right ? grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : because the putting them in combination , i think , is not as much computationally as the r training of the nets in the first place . right ? phd g : yeah . professor f : so y you do have to compute the kl transformation . uh , which is a little bit , but it 's not too much . phd g : it 's not too much , professor f : yeah . so it 's phd g : but yeah . but there is the testing also , which implies training , uh , the htk models phd e : the the model the htk model . phd g : and , well , professor f : uh , right . phd g : it 's professor f : right . so if you do have lots of combinations , it 's phd g : yeah . but it 's it 's it 's not so long . it @ @ yeah . professor f : how long does it take for an , uh , htk training ? phd g : it 's around six hours , i think . phd e : it depends on the phd g : for training and testing , yeah . phd e : more than six hours . phd g : more . phd e : for the italian , yes . maybe one day . phd g : one day ? phd e : yeah . professor f : for htk ? phd e : well . professor f : really ? running on what ? phd e : uh , m mfcc . professor f : no , i 'm sorry , ru running on what machine ? phd e : uh , ravioli . professor f : uh , i do n't know what ravioli is . is it is it an ultra - five , or is it a ? phd e : mmm um . who is that ? phd a : i do n't know . grad c : i do n't know . phd e : i do n't know . phd b : i do n't know what a ravioli is . phd e : i do n't know . grad c : i do n't know . phd b : we can check really quickly , i guess . phd g : yeah , i i think it 's - it 's - it 's not so long because , well , the ti - digits test data is about , uh how many hours ? uh , th uh , thirty hours of speech , i think , professor f : it 's a few hours . yeah . right , phd g : something like that . and it p well . professor f : so , i mean , clearly , there there 's no way we can even begin to do an any significant amount here unless we use multiple machines . phd g : it 's six hours . professor f : right ? so so w we i mean there 's plenty of machines here and they 're n they 're often not in in a great great deal of use . so , i mean , i think it 's it 's key that that the that you look at , uh , you know , what machines are fast , what machines are used a lot uh , are we still using p - make ? is that ? grad c : oh , i do n't know how w how we would p - make this , though . um . professor f : well , you have a i mean , once you get the basic thing set up , you have just all the uh , a all these combinations , grad c : yeah . professor f : right ? grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : um . it 's it 's let 's say it 's six hours or eight hours , or something for the training of htk . how long is it for training of of , uh , the neural net ? grad c : the neural net ? um . phd g : i would say two days . phd a : depends on the corpuses , right ? phd e : it depends . phd b : it s also depends on the net . phd g : yeah . grad c : yeah . phd e : depends on the corpus . phd b : how big is the net ? phd e : for albayzin i trained on neural network , uh , was , um , one day also . professor f : uh , but on what machine ? grad c : on a spert board . phd e : uh . i i think the neural net spert . grad c : y you did a you did it on a spert board . professor f : ok , again , we do have a bunch of spert boards . grad c : yeah . professor f : and i think there there there 's i think you folks are probably go the ones using them right now . phd a : is it faster to do it on the spert , or ? professor f : uh , do n't know . grad c : it 's it 's still a little faster on the professor f : used to be . phd a : is it ? grad c : yeah , yeah . ad - adam adam did some testing . or either adam or or dan did some testing and they found that the spert board 's still still faster . phd a : mm - hmm . grad c : and the benefits is that , you know , you run out of spert and then you can do other things on your your computer , professor f : mm - hmm . phd a : mm - hmm . grad c : and you do n't professor f : yeah . so you could be we have quite a few spert boards . you could set up , uh , you know , ten different jobs , or something , to run on spert different spert boards and and have ten other jobs running on different computers . so , it 's got to take that sort of thing , or or we 're not going to get through any significant number of these . grad c : yeah . professor f : so this is yeah , i mean , i kind of like this because what it no uh , no , what i like about it is we we we do have a problem that we have very limited time . you know , so , with very limited time , we actually have really quite a quite a bit of computational resource available if you , you know , get a look across the institute and how little things are being used . and uh , on the other hand , almost anything that really i you know , is is new , where we 're saying , `` well , let 's look at , like we were talking before about , uh , uh , voiced - unvoiced - silence detection features and all those sort `` that 's phd e : yeah . professor f : i think it 's a great thing to go to . but if it 's new , then we have this development and and and learning process t to to go through on top of just the the all the all the work . so , i i i do n't see how we 'd do it . so what i like about this is you basically have listed all the things that we already know how to do . phd e : yeah . professor f : and and all the kinds of data that we , at this point , already have . and , uh , you 're just saying let 's look at the outer product of all of these things and see if we can calculate them . a a am i am i interpreting this correctly ? is this sort of what what you 're thinking of doing in the short term ? phd g : yeah . professor f : so so then i think it 's just the the missing piece is that you need to , uh , you know you know , talk to talk to , uh , chuck , talk to , uh , adam , uh , sort out about , uh , what 's the best way to really , you know , attack this as a as a as a mass problem in terms of using many machines . uh , and uh , then , you know , set it up in terms of scripts and so forth , and uh , in in kind o some kind of structured way . uh . um , and , you know , when we go to , uh , ogi next week , uh , we can then present to them , you know , what it is that we 're doing . and , uh , we can pull things out of this list that we think they are doing sufficiently , grad c : mmm . mm - hmm . professor f : that , you know , we 're not we wo n't be contributing that much . um . and , uh then , uh , like , we 're there . phd b : how big are the nets you 're using ? grad c : um , for the for nets trained on digits , { comment } um , we have been using , uh , four hundred order hidden units . and , um , for the broader class nets we 're we 're going to increase that because the , um , the digits nets only correspond to about twenty phonemes . phd b : uh - huh . professor f : broader class ? grad c : um , the broader broader training corpus nets like timit . um , w we 're gon na professor f : oh , it 's not actually broader class , it 's actually finer class , but you mean y you mean more classes . grad c : right . right . yeah . more classes . right , right . more classes . professor f : yeah . grad c : that 's what i mean . professor f : yeah . yeah . grad c : mm - hmm . and . yeah . professor f : carmen , did you do you have something else to add ? we you have n't talked too much , and phd e : d i begin to work with the italian database to nnn , to with the f front - end and with the htk program and the @ @ . and i trained eh , with the spanish two neural network with plp and with lograsta plp . i do n't know exactly what is better if if lograsta or jrasta . professor f : well , um , jrasta has the potential to do better , but it does n't always . it 's i i jrasta is more complicated . it 's it 's , uh instead of doing rasta with a log , you 're doing rasta with a log - like function that varies depending on a j parameter , uh , which is supposed to be sensitive to the amount of noise there is . so , it 's sort of like the right transformation to do the filtering in , is dependent on how much noise there is . phd e : hm - hmm . professor f : and so in jrasta you attempt to do that . it 's a little complicated because once you do that , you end up in some funny domain and you end up having to do a transformation afterwards , which requires some tables . and , uh , phd e : hm - hmm . professor f : so it 's it 's it 's a little messier , uh , there 's more ways that it can go wrong , uh , but if if if you 're careful with it , it can do better . phd e : it 's a bit i 'll do better . professor f : so , it 's so . phd e : um , and i think to to to recognize the italian digits with the neural netw spanish neural network , and also to train another neural network with the spanish digits , the database of spanish digits . and i working that . professor f : yeah . phd e : but prepa to prepare the the database are difficult . was for me , n it was a difficult work last week with the labels because the the program with the label obtained that i have , the albayzin , is different w to the label to train the neural network . and that is another work that we must to do , to to change . professor f : i i did n't understand . phd e : uh , for example albayzin database was labeled automatically with htk . it 's not hand it 's not labels by hand . professor f : oh , `` l labeled `` . phd e : labels . professor f : i 'm sorry , phd e : i 'm sorry , professor f : i have a p i had a problem with the pronunciation . phd e : i 'm sorry . the labels . i 'm sorry . the labels . professor f : yeah , ok . phd e : oh , also that professor f : so , ok , so let 's start over . so , ti timi timit 's hand - labeled , and and you 're saying about the spanish ? phd e : the spanish labels ? that was in different format , that the format for the em the program to train the neural network . professor f : oh , i see . phd e : i necessary to convert . and someti well phd a : so you 're just having a problem converting the labels . phd e : it 's it 's yeah . yeah , but n yes , because they have one program , feacalc , but no , l labecut , l labecut , but do n't does n't , eh , include the htk format to convert . professor f : mm - hmm . phd e : and , i do n't know what . i ask e even i ask to dan ellis what i can do that , and h they he say me that h he does does n't any any s any form to to do that . and at the end , i think that with labecut i can transfer to ascii format , and htk is an ascii format . and i m do another , uh , one program to put ascii format of htk to ase ay ac ascii format to exceed professor f : mm - hmm . phd e : and they used labcut to to pass . professor f : ok , yeah . phd e : actually that was complicated , professor f : so you phd e : but well , i know how we can did that do that . professor f : sure . so it 's just usual kind of uh sometimes say housekeeping , right ? to get these get these things sorted out . phd e : yeah . professor f : so it seems like there 's there 's some peculiarities of the , uh of each of these dimensions that are getting sorted out . and then , um , if if you work on getting the , uh , assembly lines together , and then the the pieces sort of get ready to go into the assembly line and gradually can start , you know , start turning the crank , more or less . and , uh , uh , we have a lot more computational capability here than they do at ogi , so i think that i if what 's what 's great about this is it sets it up in a very systematic way , so that , uh , once these all of these , you know , mundane but real problems get sorted out , we can just start turning the crank phd e : mm - hmm . professor f : and and push all of us through , and then finally figure out what 's best . grad c : yeah . um , i i was thinking two things . uh , the first thing was , um we we actually had thought of this as sort of like , um not not in stages , { comment } but more along the the time axis . just kind of like one stream at a time , professor f : mm - hmm . grad c : je - je - je - je - je { comment } check out the results and and go that way . professor f : oh , yeah , yeah , sure . no , i 'm just saying , i 'm just thinking of it like loops , grad c : uh - huh . professor f : right ? and so , y y y if you had three nested loops , that you have a choice for this , a choice for this , and a choice for that , grad c : yeah . mm - hmm . professor f : right ? and you 're going through them all . that that 's what i meant . grad c : right , right . professor f : and , uh , the thing is that once you get a better handle on how much you can realistically do , uh , um , concurrently on different machines , different sperts , and so forth , uh , and you see how long it takes on what machine and so forth , you can stand back from it and say , `` ok , if we look at all these combinations we 're talking about , and combinations of combinations , and so forth , `` you 'll probably find you ca n't do it all . grad c : mm - hmm . ok . professor f : ok , so then at that point , uh , we should sort out which ones do we throw away . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : which of the combinations across you know , what are the most likely ones , and and , uh , i still think we could do a lot of them . i mean , it would n't surprise me if we could do a hundred of them or something . but , probably when you include all the combinations , you 're actually talking about a thousand of them or something , and that 's probably more than we can do . uh , but a hundred is a lot . and and , uh , um yeah . grad c : yeah , and the the second thing was about scratch space . and i think you sent an email about , um , e scratch space for for people to work on . and i know that , uh , stephane 's working from an nt machine , so his his home directory exists somewhere else . professor f : his his stuff is somewhere else , yeah . yeah , i mean , my point i i want to yeah , thanks for bring it back to that . my th i want to clarify my point about that that that chuck repeated in his note . um . we 're over the next year or two , we 're gon na be upgrading the networks in this place , grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : but right now they 're still all te pretty much all ten megabit lines . and we have reached the this the machines are getting faster and faster . so , it actually has reached the point where it 's a significant drag on the time for something to move the data from one place to another . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : so , you you do n't w especially in something with repetitive computation where you 're going over it multiple times , you do do n't want to have the the data that you 're working on distant from where it 's being where the computation 's being done if you can help it . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : uh . now , we are getting more disk for the central file server , which , since it 's not a computational server , would seem to be a contradiction to what i just said . but the idea is that , uh , suppose you 're working with , uh , this big bunch of multi multilingual databases . um , you put them all in the central ser at the cen central file server . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : then , when you 're working with something and accessing it many times , you copy the piece of it that you 're working with over to some place that 's close to where the computation is and then do all the work there . and then that way you you wo n't have the the network you wo n't be clogging the network for yourself and others . that 's the idea . so , uh , it 's gon na take us it may be too late for this , uh , p precise crunch we 're in now , but , uh , we 're , uh it 's gon na take us a couple weeks at least to get the , uh , uh , the amount of disk we 're gon na be getting . we 're actually gon na get , uh , i think four more , uh , thirty - six gigabyte drives and , uh , put them on another another disk rack . we ran out of space on the disk rack that we had , so we 're getting another disk rack and four more drives to share between , uh primarily between this project and the meetings meetings project . um . but , uh , we 've put another i guess there 's another eighteen gigabytes that 's that 's in there now to help us with the immediate crunch . but , uh , are you saying so i do n't know where you 're stephane , where you 're doing your computations . if i so , you 're on an nt machine , so you 're using some external machine phd g : yeah , it , uh well , to it 's nutmeg and mustard , i think , professor f : do you know these yet ? phd g : i do n't know what kind . phd a : nuh - uh . professor f : yeah , ok . uh , are these are these , uh , computational servers , or something ? i 'm i 've been kind of out of it . phd g : yeah , i think , yeah . i think so . professor f : unfortunately , these days my idea of running comput of computa doing computation is running a spread sheet . uh , have n't been have n't been doing much computing personally , so . um . yeah , so those are computational servers . so i guess the other question is what disk there i space there is there on the computational servers . phd a : right . yeah , i 'm not sure what 's available on is it you said nutmeg and what was the other one ? phd g : mustard . phd a : mustard . ok . professor f : yeah , well , you 're the you 're the disk czar now . phd a : right , right . well , i 'll check on that . professor f : yeah . yeah , so basically , uh , chuck will be the one who will be sorting out what disk needs to be where , and so on , and i 'll be the one who says , `` ok , spend the money . `` so . which , i mean , n these days , uh , if you 're talking about scratch space , it does n't increase the , uh , need for backup , and , uh , i think it 's not that big a d and the the disks themselves are not that expensive . right now it 's phd a : what you can do , when you 're on that machine , is , uh , just go to the slash - scratch directory , and do a df minus k , and it 'll tell you if there 's space available . phd g : yeah . phd a : uh , and if there is then , uh professor f : but was n't it , uh i think dave was saying that he preferred that people did n't put stuff in slash - scratch . it 's more putting in d s xa or xb or , phd a : well , there 's different there , um , there 's professor f : right ? phd a : right . so there 's the slash - x - whatever disks , and then there 's slash - scratch . and both of those two kinds are not backed up . and if it 's called `` slash - scratch `` , it means it 's probably an internal disk to the machine . um . and so that 's the kind of thing where , like if um , ok , if you do n't have an nt , but you have a a a unix workstation , and they attach an external disk , { comment } it 'll be called `` slash - x - something `` uh , if it 's not backed up and it 'll be `` slash - d - something `` if it is backed up . and if it 's inside the machine on the desk , it 's called `` slash - scratch `` . but the problem is , if you ever get a new machine , they take your machine away . it 's easy to unhook the external disks , put them back on the new machine , but then your slash - scratch is gone . so , you do n't wan na put anything in slash - scratch that you wan na keep around for a long period of time . but if it 's a copy of , say , some data that 's on a server , you can put it on slash - scratch because , um , first of all it 's not backed up , and second it does n't matter if that machine disappears and you get a new machine because you just recopy it to slash - scratch . so tha that 's why i was saying you could check slash - scratch on those on on , um , mustard and and nutmeg to see if if there 's space that you could use there . professor f : i see . phd a : you could also use slash - x - whatever disks on mustard and nutmeg . phd g : yeah , yeah . phd a : um . yeah , and we do have i mean , yeah , so so you yeah , it 's better to have things local if you 're gon na run over them lots of times so you do n't have to go to the network . professor f : right , so es so especially if you 're right , if you 're if you 're taking some piece of the training corpus , which usually resides in where chuck is putting it all on the on the , uh , file server , uh , then , yeah , it 's fine if it 's not backed up because if it g g gets wiped out or something , y i mean it is backed up on the other disk . so , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : yeah , ok . phd a : yeah , so , one of the things that i need to i 've started looking at uh , is this the appropriate time to talk about the disk space stuff ? professor f : sure . phd a : i 've started looking at , um , disk space . dan david , um , put a new , um , drive onto abbott , that 's an x disk , which means it 's not backed up . so , um , i 've been going through and copying data that is , you know , some kind of corpus stuff usually , that that we 've got on a cd - rom or something , onto that new disk to free up space on other disks . and , um , so far , um , i 've copied a couple of carmen 's , um , databases over there . we have n't deleted them off of the slash - dc disk that they 're on right now in abbott , um , uh , but we i would like to go through sit down with you about some of these other ones and see if we can move them onto , um , this new disk also . there 's there 's a lot more space there , phd g : yeah , ok . phd a : and it 'll free up more space for doing the experiments and things . so , anything that that you do n't need backed up , we can put on this new disk . um , but if it 's experiments and you 're creating files and things that you 're gon na need , you probably wan na have those on a disk that 's backed up , just in case something { comment } goes wrong . so . um so far i 've i 've copied a couple of things , but i have n't deleted anything off of the old disk to make room yet . um , and i have n't looked at the any of the aurora stuff , except for the spanish . so i i guess i 'll need to get together with you and see what data we can move onto the new disk . phd g : yeah , ok . professor f : um , yeah , i i just an another question occurred to me is is what were you folks planning to do about normalization ? phd g : um . well , we were thinking about using this systematically for all the experiments . um . professor f : this being ? phd g : so , but uh . so that this could be another dimension , but we think perhaps we can use the the best , uh , um , uh , normalization scheme as ogi is using , so , with parameters that they use there , professor f : yeah , i think that 's a good idea . phd g : u u professor f : i mean it 's i i we we seem to have enough dimensions as it is . so probably if we sort of take their phd g : yeah , yeah , yeah . professor f : probably the on - line line normalization because then it { comment } it 's if we do anything else , we 're gon na end up having to do on - line normalization too , so we may as well just do on - line normalization . phd g : mm - hmm . professor f : so . um . so that it 's plausible for the final thing . good . um . so , i guess , yeah , th the other topic i maybe we 're already there , or almost there , is goals for the for next week 's meeting . uh . i i i it seems to me that we wan na do is flush out what you put on the board here . uh . you know , maybe , have it be somewhat visual , a little bit . grad c : ok . like a s like a slide ? professor f : uh , so w we can say what we 're doing , yeah . and , um , also , if you have sorted out , um , this information about how long i roughly how long it takes to do on what and , you know , what we can how many of these trainings , uh , uh , and testings and so forth that we can realistically do , uh , then one of the big goals of going there next week would be to to actually settle on which of them we 're gon na do . and , uh , when we come back we can charge in and do it . um . anything else that i a a actually started out this this field trip started off with with , uh , stephane talking to hynek , so you may have you may have had other goals , uh , for going up , and any anything else you can think of would be we should think about accomplishing ? i mean , i 'm just saying this because maybe there 's things we need to do in preparation . phd g : oh , i think basically , this is this is , uh , yeah . professor f : ok . ok . uh . alright . and uh and the other the the last topic i had here was , um , uh d dave 's fine offer to to , uh , do something on this . i mean he 's doing he 's working on other things , but to to do something on this project . so the question is , `` where where could we , uh , uh , most use dave 's help ? `` phd g : um , yeah , i was thinking perhaps if , um , additionally to all these experiments , which is not really research , well i mean it 's , uh , running programs professor f : yeah . phd g : and , um , trying to have a closer look at the perhaps the , um , speech , uh , noise detection or , uh , voiced - sound - unvoiced - sound detection and which could be important in i for noise noise phd a : i think that would be a i think that 's a big big deal . because the you know , the thing that sunil was talking about , uh , with the labels , uh , labeling the database when it got to the noisy stuff ? the that that really throws things off . you know , having the noise all of a sudden , your your , um , speech detector , i mean the the , um what was it ? what was happening with his thing ? he was running through these models very quickly . he was getting lots of , uh , uh insertions , is what it was , in his recognitions . professor f : the only problem i mean , maybe that 's the right thing the only problem i have with it is exactly the same reason why you thought it 'd be a good thing to do . um , i i think that let 's fall back to that . but i think the first responsibility is sort of to figure out if there 's something that , uh , an an additional uh , that 's a good thing you remove the mike . go ahead , good . uh , uh . what an additional clever person could help with when we 're really in a crunch for time . right ? cuz dave 's gon na be around for a long time , phd e : yeah . professor f : right ? he 's he 's gon na be here for years . and so , um , phd g : yeah . professor f : over years , if he 's if he 's interested in , you know , voiced - unvoiced - silence , he could do a lot . but if there if in fact there 's something else that he could be doing , that would help us when we 're we 're sort of uh strapped for time we have we we 've , you know , only , uh , another another month or two to you know , with the holidays in the middle of it , um , to to get a lot done . if we can think of something some piece of this that 's going to be the very fact that it is sort of just work , and i and it 's running programs and so forth , is exactly why it 's possible that it some piece of could be handed to someone to do , because it 's not uh , yeah , so that that 's the question . and we do n't have to solve it right this s second , but if we could think of some some piece that 's that 's well defined , that he could help with , he 's expressing a will willingness to do that . phd a : what about training up a , um , a multilingual net ? phd e : yes , maybe to , mmm , put together the the label the labels between timit and spanish or something like that . phd g : yeah . yeah , so defining the superset , and , uh , joining the data and mmm . phd e : yeah . phd g : yeah . professor f : uh . yeah , that 's something that needs to be done in any event . phd e : yeah . professor f : so what we were just saying is that that , um i was arguing for , if possible , coming up with something that that really was development and was n't research because we we 're we have a time crunch . and so , uh , if there 's something that would would save some time that someone else could do on some other piece , then we should think of that first . see the thing with voiced - unvoiced - silence is i really think that that it 's to do to do a a a a poor job is is pretty quick , uh , or , you know , a so - so job . you can you can you can throw in a couple fea we know what what kinds of features help with it . you can throw something in . you can do pretty well . but i remember , in fact , when you were working on that , and you worked on for few months , as i recall , and you got to , say ninety - three percent , and getting to ninety - four really really hard . phd a : mm - hmm . another year . professor f : yeah , yeah . so , um and th th the other tricky thing is , since we are , uh , even though we 're not we do n't have a strict prohibition on memory size , and and computational complexity , uh , clearly there 's some limitation to it . so if we have to if we say we have to have a pitch detector , say , if we if we 're trying to incorporate pitch information , or at least some kind of harmonic harmonicity , or something , this is another whole thing , take a while to develop . anyway , it 's a very very interesting topic . i mean , one i think one of the a lot of people would say , and i think dan would also , uh , that one of the things wrong with current speech recognition is that we we really do throw away all the harmonicity information . uh , we try to get spectral envelopes . reason for doing that is that most of the information about the phonetic identity is in the spectral envelopes are not in the harmonic detail . but the harmonic detail does tell you something . like the fact that there is harmonic detail is is real important . so . um . so , uh . so i think yeah . so wh that so the the other suggestion that just came up was , well what about having him work on the , uh , multilingual super f superset kind of thing . uh , coming up with that and then , you know , training it training a net on that , say , um , from from , uh from timit or something . is that or uh , for multiple databases . what what would you what would you think it would wh what would this task consist of ? phd g : yeah , it would consist in , uh , well , um , creating the the superset , and , uh , modifying the lab labels for matching the superset . uh . professor f : uh , creating a superset from looking at the multiple languages , phd g : well , creating the mappings , actually . professor f : and then creating i m changing labels on timit ? phd g : yeah . professor f : or on or on multiple language multiple languages ? phd e : no . the multiple language . phd g : yeah , yeah , with the @ @ three languages , phd e : maybe for the other language because timit have more phone . professor f : yeah . phd a : so you 'd have to create a mapping from each language to the superset . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . phd g : from each language to the superset , phd e : yeah . phd g : yeah . grad c : there 's , um carmen was talking about this sampa thing , and it 's , um , it 's an effort by linguists to come up with , um , a machine readable ipa , um , sort of thing , right ? and , um , they they have a web site that stephane was showing us that has , um has all the english phonemes and their sampa correspondent , um , phoneme , professor f : yeah . grad c : and then , um , they have spanish , they have german , they have all all sorts of languages , um , mapping mapping to the sampa phonemes , which phd e : yeah , the tr the transcription , though , for albayzin is n the transcription are of sampa the same , uh , how you say , symbol that sampa appear . phd b : sampa ? what does `` sampa `` mean ? professor f : mm - hmm . hmm . phd e : but i do n't know if timit o how is timit . phd b : so , i mean professor f : what phd b : i 'm sorry . professor f : go ahead . phd b : i was gon na say , does that mean ipa is not really international ? grad c : no , it 's it 's saying phd a : it uses special diacritics and stuff , which you ca n't do with ascii characters . grad c : y ca n't print on ascii . phd e : yeah . phd a : so the sampa 's just mapping those . phd b : oh , i see . got it . professor f : what , uh has ogi done anything about this issue ? do they have do they have any kind of superset that they already have ? phd g : i do n't think so . well , they they they 're going actually the the other way , defining uh , phoneme clusters , apparently . well . professor f : aha . that 's right . uh , and that 's an interesting way to go too . phd a : so they just throw the speech from all different languages together , then cluster it into sixty or fifty or whatever clusters ? phd g : i think they 've not done it , uh , doing , uh , multiple language yet , but what they did is to training , uh , english nets with all the phonemes , and then training it in english nets with , uh , kind of seventeen , i think it was seventeen , uh , broad classes . phd a : automatically derived mm - hmm . automatically derived broad classes , or ? phd g : yeah . yeah , i think so . phd a : uh - huh . phd g : uh , and , yeah . and the result was that apparently , when testing on cross - language it was better . i think so . but hynek did n't add did n't have all the results when he showed me that , so , well . professor f : so that does make an interesting question , though . phd g : but professor f : is there 's some way that we should tie into that with this . um . right ? i mean , if if in fact that is a better thing to do , should we leverage that , rather than doing , um , our own . right ? so , if i if if they s i mean , we have i we have the the trainings with our own categories . and now we 're saying , `` well , how do we handle cross - language ? `` and one way is to come up with a superset , but they are als they 're trying coming up with clustered , and do we think there 's something wrong with that ? phd g : i think that there 's something wrong professor f : ok . what w phd g : or well , because well , for the moment we are testing on digits , and e i perhaps u using broad phoneme classes , it 's it 's ok for um , uh classifying the digits , but as soon as you will have more words , well , words can differ with only a single phoneme , and which could be the same , uh , class . professor f : i see . phd g : well . so . professor f : right . although , you are not using this for the phd g : so , i 'm professor f : you 're using this for the feature generation , though , not the phd g : yeah , but you will ask the net to put one for th th the phoneme class professor f : yeah . phd g : and so . phd a : so you 're saying that there may not be enough information coming out of the net to help you discriminate the words ? professor f : yeah . phd g : well . yeah , yeah . mmm . phd b : fact , most confusions are within the phone phone classes , right ? i think , uh , larry was saying like obstruents are only confused with other obstruents , et cetera , et cetera . professor f : yeah . yeah . yeah . phd g : yeah , this is another p yeah , another point . professor f : yeah . grad c : so so , maybe we could look at articulatory type stuff , professor f : but that 's what i thought they were gon na grad c : right ? professor f : did they not do that , or ? phd g : i do n't think so . well , professor f : so phd g : they were talking about , perhaps , but they d professor f : they 're talking about it , but that 's sort of a question whether they did phd g : w yeah . professor f : because that 's that 's the other route to go . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : instead of this , you know grad c : superclass . professor f : instead of the the the the superclass thing , which is to take so suppose y you do n't really mark arti to really mark articulatory features , you really wan na look at the acoustics and and see where everything is , and we 're not gon na do that . so , uh , the second class way of doing it is to look at the , uh , phones that are labeled and translate them into acoustic uh , uh articulatory , uh , uh , features . so it wo n't really be right . you wo n't really have these overlapping things and so forth , phd a : so the targets of the net are these ? professor f : but phd a : articulatory features . professor f : articulatory feature . phd a : but that implies that you can have more than one on at a time ? professor f : right . that 's right . phd a : ah . ok . professor f : you either do that or you have multiple nets . phd a : i see . professor f : um . and , um i do n't know if our software this if the qu versions of the quicknet that we 're using allows for that . do you know ? grad c : allows for ? professor f : multiple targets being one ? grad c : oh , um , we have gotten soft targets to to work . professor f : ok . so that that 'll work , yeah . grad c : yeah . professor f : ok . so , um , that 's another thing that could be done is that we could we could , uh , just translate instead of translating to a superset , just translate to articulatory features , some set of articulatory features and train with that . now the fact even though it 's a smaller number , it 's still fine because you have the the , uh , combinations . so , in fact , it has every , you know it had has has every distinction in it that you would have the other way . phd g : yeah . professor f : but it should go across languages better . phd a : we could do an interesting cheating experiment with that too . we could i do n't know , if you had uh the phone labels , you could replace them by their articulatory features and then feed in a vector with those uh , things turned on based on what they 're supposed to be for each phone to see if it if you get a big win . do you know what i 'm saying ? so , um , i mean , if your net is gon na be outputting , uh , a vector of basically of well , it 's gon na have probabilities , but let 's say that they were ones and zeros , then y and you know for each , um , i do n't know if you know this for your testing data , but if you know for your test data , you know , what the string of phones is and and you have them aligned , then you can just instead of going through the net , just create the vector for each phone and feed that in to see if that data helps . eh , eh , what made me think about this is , i was talking with hynek and he said that there was a guy at a t - andt who spent eighteen months working on a single feature . and because they had done some cheating experiments professor f : this was the guy that we were just talking a that we saw on campus . so , this was larry saul who did this did this . phd a : oh , ok . professor f : he used sonorants . phd a : right , ok , professor f : was what he was doing . phd a : right . and they they had done a cheating experiment or something , right ? professor f : yeah . phd a : and determined that professor f : he he di he did n't mention that part . phd a : well , hynek said that that , i guess before they had him work on this , they had done some experiment where if they could get that one feature right , it dramatically improved the result . professor f : but . i see . ok . phd a : so i was thinking , you know it made me think about this , that if it 'd be an interesting experiment just to see , you know , if you did get all of those right . professor f : should be . because if you get all of them in there , that defines all of the phones . so that 's that 's equivalent to saying that you 've got got all the phones right . phd a : right . professor f : so , if that does n't help , there 's phd a : yeah . professor f : although , yeah , it would be make an interesting cheating experiment because we are using it in this funny way , phd a : yeah . professor f : where we 're converting it into features . phd a : and then you also do n't know what error they 've got on the htk side . you know ? it sort of gives you your the best you could hope for , kind of . professor f : yeah . grad c : mmm . mmm , i see . phd b : the soft training of the nets still requires the vector to sum to one , though , right ? grad c : to sum up to one . phd b : so you ca n't really feed it , like , two articulatory features that are on at the same time with ones cuz it 'll kind of normalize them down to one half or something like that , for instance . phd g : but perhaps you have the choice of the final nonl grad c : right . nonlinearity ? phd g : uh , nonlinearity , yeah . is it always softmax grad c : it 's sig no , it 's actually sigmoid - x phd g : or ? yeah . grad c : for the phd g : so if you choose sigmoid it 's o it 's ok ? grad c : you , um professor f : did we just run out of disk , grad c : i think i think apparently , the , uh professor f : or ? phd b : why do n't you just choose linear ? right ? grad c : what 's that ? phd b : linear outputs ? grad c : linear outputs ? phd b : is n't that what you 'll want ? if you 're gon na do a kl transform on it . grad c : right , right . right , but during the training , we would train on sigmoid - x phd b : oh , you yeah ? grad c : and then at the end just chop off the final nonlinearity . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about language training data for cell phones </s> phd g : um . well , preparation of the french test data actually . so , it means that um , well , it is , uh , a digit french database of microphone speech , downsampled to eight kilohertz and i 've added noise to one part , with the actually the aurora - two noises . and , @ @ so this is a training part . and then the remaining part , i use for testing and with other kind of noises . so we can so this is almost ready . i 'm preparing the the htk baseline for this task . and , yeah . professor f : ok uh , so the htk base lines so this is using mel cepstra and so on , or ? yeah . ok . phd g : yeah . professor f : and again , i guess the p the plan is , uh , to uh then given this what 's the plan again ? phd g : the plan with these data ? professor f : with so so does i just remind me of what what you were going to do with the what what what what 's y you just described what you 've been doing . so if you could remind me of what you 're going to be doing . phd g : yeah . professor f : oh , this is yeah , yeah . phd g : uh , yeah . grad c : tell him about the cube . phd g : well . the cube ? i should tell him about the cube ? grad c : yeah . professor f : oh ! cube . yeah . phd g : yeah . phd e : fill in the cube . phd g : uh we actually we want to , mmm , uh , uh , analyze three dimensions , the feature dimension , the training data dimension , and the test data dimension . um . well , what we want to do is first we have number for each uh task . so we have the um , ti - digit task , the italian task , the french task and the finnish task . professor f : yeah ? phd g : so we have numbers with uh systems i mean i mean neural networks trained on the task data . and then to have systems with neural networks trained on , uh , data from the same language , if possible , with , well , using a more generic database , which is phonetically phonetically balanced , and . um . professor f : so - so we had talked i guess we had talked at one point about maybe , the language id corpus ? phd g : yeah . so . professor f : is that a possibility for that ? phd g : ye - uh yeah , but , uh these corpus , w w there is a callhome and a callfriend also , the callfriend is for language ind identification . well , anyway , these corpus are all telephone speech . so , um . this could be a a problem for why ? because uh , uh , the the speechdat databases are not telephone speech . they are downsampled to eight kilohertz but but they are not uh with telephone bandwidth . professor f : yeah . that 's really funny is n't it ? i mean cuz th this whole thing is for developing new standards for the telephone . grad c : telephone . professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah , but the the idea is to compute the feature before the before sending them to the well , you do n't do not send speech , you send features , computed on th the the device , professor f : mm - hmm . yeah , i know , but the reason phd g : or well . professor f : oh i see , so your point is that it 's it 's it 's uh the features are computed locally , and so they are n't necessarily telephone bandwidth , uh or telephone distortions . phd g : so you yeah . yeah . phd a : did you happen to find out anything about the ogi multilingual database ? professor f : yeah , that 's wh that 's wh that 's what i meant . phd g : yeah , it 's professor f : i said @ @ , there 's there 's there 's an ogi language id , not the not the , uh the callfriend is a is a , uh , ldc w thing , right ? phd g : yea - yeah , there are also two other databases . one they call the multi - language database , and another one is a twenty - two language , something like that . but it 's also telephone speech . phd a : oh , they are ? ok . phd g : uh . well , nnn . professor f : but i 'm not sure phd g : so professor f : i mean , we ' r e e the bandwidth should n't be such an issue right ? because e e this is downsampled and and filtered , right ? so it 's just the fact that it 's not telephone . and there are so many other differences between these different databases . i mean some of this stuff 's recorded in the car , and some of it 's i mean there 's there 's many different acoustic differences . so i 'm not sure if . i mean , unless we 're going to include a bunch of car recordings in the in the training database , i 'm not sure if it 's completely rules it out phd g : yeah . professor f : if our if we if our major goal is to have phonetic context and you figure that there 's gon na be a mismatch in acoustic conditions does it make it much worse f to sort of add another mismatch , if you will . uh , i i i i guess the question is how important is it to for us to get multiple languages uh , in there . phd g : yeah , but mm - hmm . um . yeah . well , actually , for the moment if we w do not want to use these phone databases , we we already have uh english , spanish and french uh , with microphone speech . professor f : mm - hmm . yeah . so that 's what you 're thinking of using is sort of the multi the equivalent of the multiple ? phd g : well . yeah , for the multilingual part we were thinking of using these three databases . professor f : and for the difference in phonetic context that you ? provide that . phd g : well , this uh , actually , these three databases are um generic databases . phd e : yeah . phd g : so w f for for uh italian , which is close to spanish , french and , i i uh , ti - digits we have both uh , digits training data and also more general training data . so . mmm . professor f : well , we also have this broadcast news that we were talking about taking off the disk , which is is microphone data for for english . phd g : yeah . yeah , perhaps yeah , there is also timit . professor f : yeah . phd g : we could use timit . professor f : right . yeah , so there 's plenty of stuff around . ok , so anyway , th the basic plan is to , uh , test this cube . yes . phd g : yeah . phd e : to fill in the cube . professor f : to fill i fill it in , yeah . ok . phd g : yeah , and perhaps , um we were thinking that perhaps the cross - language issue is not , uh , so big of a issue . well , w w we perhaps we should not focus too much on that cross - language stuff . i mean , uh , training training a net on a language and testing a for another language . professor f : uh - huh . but that 's phd g : mmm . perhaps the most important is to have neural networks trained on the target languages . but , uh , with a general database general databases . u so that th well , the the guy who has to develop an application with one language can use the net trained o on that language , or a generic net , professor f : uh , depen it depen it depends how you mean `` using the net `` . phd g : but not trained on a professor f : so , if you 're talking about for producing these discriminative features that we 're talking about you ca n't do that . because because the what they 're asking for is is a feature set . right ? and so , uh , we 're the ones who have been weird by by doing this training . but if we say , `` no , you have to have a different feature set for each language , `` i think this is ver gon na be very bad . phd g : yeah . you think so . grad c : that 's professor f : so oh yeah . yeah . i mean , in principle , i mean conceptually , it 's sort of like they want a re @ @ { comment } well , they want a replacement for mel cepstra . so , we say `` ok , this is the year two thousand , we 've got something much better than mel cepstra . it 's , you know , gobbledy - gook . `` ok ? and so we give them these gobbledy - gook features but these gobbledy - gook features are supposed to be good for any language . cuz you do n't know who 's gon na call , and you know , i mean so it 's it 's it 's , uh , uh how do you know what language it is ? somebody picks up the phone . so thi this is their image . someone picks up the phone , right ? phd g : well , i { comment } chh professor f : and and he he picks up the ph phd g : yeah , but the the application is there is a target language for the application . professor f : yeah . y y y phd g : so , if a professor f : well . but , no but , y you you pick up the phone , phd g : well . professor f : you talk on the phone , phd g : yeah ? professor f : and it sends features out . ok , so the phone does n't know what a what what your language is . phd g : yeah , if yeah . if it 's th in the phone , but professor f : but that 's the image that they have . phd g : well , it that that could be th at the server 's side , professor f : it could be , phd g : and , well . mmm , yeah . professor f : but that 's the image they have , right ? so that 's that 's i mean , one could argue all over the place about how things really will be in ten years . but the particular image that the cellular industry has right now is that it 's distributed speech recognition , where the , uh , uh , probabilistic part , and and s semantics and so forth are all on the servers , and you compute features of the uh , on the phone . so that 's that 's what we 're involved in . we might might or might not agree that that 's the way it will be in ten years , but that 's that 's that 's what they 're asking for . so so i think that th th it is an important issue whether it works cross - language . now , it 's the ogi , uh , folks ' perspective right now that probably that 's not the biggest deal . and that the biggest deal is the , um envir acoustic - environment mismatch . and they may very well be right , but i i was hoping we could just do a test and determine if that was true . if that 's true , we do n't need to worry so much . maybe maybe we have a couple languages in the training set and that gives us enough breadth uh , uh , that that that the rest does n't matter . um , the other thing is , uh , this notion of training to uh which i i guess they 're starting to look at up there , { comment } training to something more like articulatory features . uh , and if you have something that 's just good for distinguishing different articulatory features that should just be good across , you know , a wide range of languages . phd g : yeah . professor f : uh , but yeah , so i do n't th i know unfortunately i do n't i see what you 're comi where you 're coming from , i think , but i do n't think we can ignore it . phd g : so we we really have to do test with a real cross - language . i mean , tr for instance training on english and testing on italian , or or we can train or else , uh , can we train a net on , uh , a range of languages and which can include the test the test @ @ the target language , grad c : test on an unseen . phd g : or professor f : yeah , so , um , there 's there 's , uh this is complex . so , ultimately , uh , as i was saying , i think it does n't fit within their image that you switch nets based on language . now , can you include , uh , the the target language ? phd g : yeah . professor f : um , from a purist 's standpoint it 'd be nice not to because then you can say when because surely someone is going to say at some point , `` ok , so you put in the german and the finnish . uh , now , what do you do , uh , when somebody has portuguese ? `` you know ? um , and uh , however , you are n't it is n't actually a constraint in this evaluation . so i would say if it looks like there 's a big difference to put it in , then we 'd make note of it , and then we probably put in the other , because we have so many other problems in trying to get things to work well here that that , you know , it 's not so bad as long as we we note it and say , `` look , we did do this `` . phd a : and so , ideally , what you 'd wan na do is you 'd wan na run it with and without the target language and the training set for a wide range of languages . professor f : uh . yeah . phd g : yeah , perhaps . yeah . phd a : and that way you can say , `` well , `` you know , `` we 're gon na build it for what we think are the most common ones `` , professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah . phd a : but if that somebody uses it with a different language , you know , `` here 's what 's you 're l here 's what 's likely to happen . `` professor f : yeah , cuz the truth is , is that it 's it 's not like there are i mean , al although there are thousands of languages , uh , from uh , uh , the point of view of cellular companies , there are n't . phd a : right . professor f : there 's you know , there 's fifty or something , you know ? so , uh , an and they are n't you know , with the exception of finnish , which i guess it 's pretty different from most most things . uh , it 's it 's , uh most of them are like at least some of the others . and so , our guess that spanish is like italian , and and so on . i guess finnish is a is is a little bit like hungarian , supposedly , right ? phd a : i do n't know anything about finnish . professor f : or is i think well , i kn oh , well i know that h uh , h i mean , i 'm not a linguist , but i guess hungarian and finnish and one of the one of the languages from the former soviet union are in this sort of same family . but they 're just these , you know , uh countries that are pretty far apart from one another , have i guess , people rode in on horses and brought their </s>
<s> did the professor agree with grad g on cross-lingual data ? </s> phd g : yeah , and perhaps , um we were thinking that perhaps the cross - language issue is not , uh , so big of a issue . well , w w we perhaps we should not focus too much on that cross - language stuff . i mean , uh , training training a net on a language and testing a for another language . professor f : uh - huh . but that 's phd g : mmm . perhaps the most important is to have neural networks trained on the target languages . but , uh , with a general database general databases . u so that th well , the the guy who has to develop an application with one language can use the net trained o on that language , or a generic net , professor f : uh , depen it depen it depends how you mean `` using the net `` . phd g : but not trained on a professor f : so , if you 're talking about for producing these discriminative features that we 're talking about you ca n't do that . because because the what they 're asking for is is a feature set . right ? and so , uh , we 're the ones who have been weird by by doing this training . but if we say , `` no , you have to have a different feature set for each language , `` i think this is ver gon na be very bad . phd g : yeah . you think so . grad c : that 's professor f : so oh yeah . yeah . i mean , in principle , i mean conceptually , it 's sort of like they want a re @ @ { comment } well , they want a replacement for mel cepstra . </s>
<s> what did the team think about the diversity of languages they needed ? </s> phd g : yeah , and perhaps , um we were thinking that perhaps the cross - language issue is not , uh , so big of a issue . well , w w we perhaps we should not focus too much on that cross - language stuff . i mean , uh , training training a net on a language and testing a for another language . professor f : uh - huh . but that 's phd g : mmm . perhaps the most important is to have neural networks trained on the target languages . but , uh , with a general database general databases . u so that th well , the the guy who has to develop an application with one language can use the net trained o on that language , or a generic net , professor f : uh , depen it depen it depends how you mean `` using the net `` . phd g : but not trained on a professor f : so , if you 're talking about for producing these discriminative features that we 're talking about you ca n't do that . because because the what they 're asking for is is a feature set . right ? and so , uh , we 're the ones who have been weird by by doing this training . but if we say , `` no , you have to have a different feature set for each language , `` i think this is ver gon na be very bad . phd g : yeah . you think so . grad c : that 's professor f : so oh yeah . yeah . i mean , in principle , i mean conceptually , it 's sort of like they want a re @ @ { comment } well , they want a replacement for mel cepstra . so , we say `` ok , this is the year two thousand , we 've got something much better than mel cepstra . it 's , you know , gobbledy - gook . `` ok ? and so we give them these gobbledy - gook features but these gobbledy - gook features are supposed to be good for any language . cuz you do n't know who 's gon na call , and you know , i mean so it 's it 's it 's , uh , uh how do you know what language it is ? somebody picks up the phone . so thi this is their image . someone picks up the phone , right ? phd g : well , i { comment } chh professor f : and and he he picks up the ph phd g : yeah , but the the application is there is a target language for the application . professor f : yeah . y y y phd g : so , if a professor f : well . but , no but , y you you pick up the phone , phd g : well . professor f : you talk on the phone , phd g : yeah ? professor f : and it sends features out . ok , so the phone does n't know what a what what your language is . phd g : yeah , if yeah . if it 's th in the phone , but professor f : but that 's the image that they have . phd g : well , it that that could be th at the server 's side , professor f : it could be , phd g : and , well . mmm , yeah . professor f : but that 's the image they have , right ? so that 's that 's i mean , one could argue all over the place about how things really will be in ten years . but the particular image that the cellular industry has right now is that it 's distributed speech recognition , where the , uh , uh , probabilistic part , and and s semantics and so forth are all on the servers , and you compute features of the uh , on the phone . so that 's that 's what we 're involved in . we might might or might not agree that that 's the way it will be in ten years , but that 's that 's that 's what they 're asking for . so so i think that th th it is an important issue whether it works cross - language . now , it 's the ogi , uh , folks ' perspective right now that probably that 's not the biggest deal . and that the biggest deal is the , um envir acoustic - environment mismatch . and they may very well be right , but i i was hoping we could just do a test and determine if that was true . if that 's true , we do n't need to worry so much . maybe maybe we have a couple languages in the training set and that gives us enough breadth uh , uh , that that that the rest does n't matter . um , the other thing is , uh , this notion of training to uh which i i guess they 're starting to look at up there , { comment } training to something more like articulatory features . uh , and if you have something that 's just good for distinguishing different articulatory features that should just be good across , you know , a wide range of languages . phd g : yeah . professor f : uh , but yeah , so i do n't th i know unfortunately i do n't i see what you 're comi where you 're coming from , i think , but i do n't think we can ignore it . phd g : so we we really have to do test with a real cross - language . i mean , tr for instance training on english and testing on italian , or or we can train or else , uh , can we train a net on , uh , a range of languages and which can include the test the test @ @ the target language , grad c : test on an unseen . phd g : or professor f : yeah , so , um , there 's there 's , uh this is complex . so , ultimately , uh , as i was saying , i think it does n't fit within their image that you switch nets based on language . now , can you include , uh , the the target language ? phd g : yeah . professor f : um , from a purist 's standpoint it 'd be nice not to because then you can say when because surely someone is going to say at some point , `` ok , so you put in the german and the finnish . uh , now , what do you do , uh , when somebody has portuguese ? `` you know ? um , and uh , however , you are n't it is n't actually a constraint in this evaluation . so i would say if it looks like there 's a big difference to put it in , then we 'd make note of it , and then we probably put in the other , because we have so many other problems in trying to get things to work well here that that , you know , it 's not so bad as long as we we note it and say , `` look , we did do this `` . phd a : and so , ideally , what you 'd wan na do is you 'd wan na run it with and without the target language and the training set for a wide range of languages . professor f : uh . yeah . phd g : yeah , perhaps . yeah . phd a : and that way you can say , `` well , `` you know , `` we 're gon na build it for what we think are the most common ones `` , professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah . phd a : but if that somebody uses it with a different language , you know , `` here 's what 's you 're l here 's what 's likely to happen . `` professor f : yeah , cuz the truth is , is that it 's it 's not like there are i mean , al although there are thousands of languages , uh , from uh , uh , the point of view of cellular companies , there are n't . phd a : right . professor f : there 's you know , there 's fifty or something , you know ? so , uh , an and they are n't you know , with the exception of finnish , which i guess it 's pretty different from most most things . uh , it 's it 's , uh most of them are like at least some of the others . and so , our guess that spanish is like italian , and and so on . i guess finnish is a is is a little bit like hungarian , supposedly , right ? phd a : i do n't know anything about finnish . professor f : or is i think well , i kn oh , well i know that h uh , h i mean , i 'm not a linguist , but i guess hungarian and finnish and one of the one of the languages from the former soviet union are in this sort of same family . but they 're just these , you know , uh countries that are pretty far apart from one another , have i guess , people rode in on horses and brought their </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on moving between data formats and the logistics of training models </s> phd e : d i begin to work with the italian database to nnn , to with the f front - end and with the htk program and the @ @ . and i trained eh , with the spanish two neural network with plp and with lograsta plp . i do n't know exactly what is better if if lograsta or jrasta . professor f : well , um , jrasta has the potential to do better , but it does n't always . it 's i i jrasta is more complicated . it 's it 's , uh instead of doing rasta with a log , you 're doing rasta with a log - like function that varies depending on a j parameter , uh , which is supposed to be sensitive to the amount of noise there is . so , it 's sort of like the right transformation to do the filtering in , is dependent on how much noise there is . phd e : hm - hmm . professor f : and so in jrasta you attempt to do that . it 's a little complicated because once you do that , you end up in some funny domain and you end up having to do a transformation afterwards , which requires some tables . and , uh , phd e : hm - hmm . professor f : so it 's it 's it 's a little messier , uh , there 's more ways that it can go wrong , uh , but if if if you 're careful with it , it can do better . phd e : it 's a bit i 'll do better . professor f : so , it 's so . phd e : um , and i think to to to recognize the italian digits with the neural netw spanish neural network , and also to train another neural network with the spanish digits , the database of spanish digits . and i working that . professor f : yeah . phd e : but prepa to prepare the the database are difficult . was for me , n it was a difficult work last week with the labels because the the program with the label obtained that i have , the albayzin , is different w to the label to train the neural network . and that is another work that we must to do , to to change . professor f : i i did n't understand . phd e : uh , for example albayzin database was labeled automatically with htk . it 's not hand it 's not labels by hand . professor f : oh , `` l labeled `` . phd e : labels . professor f : i 'm sorry , phd e : i 'm sorry , professor f : i have a p i had a problem with the pronunciation . phd e : i 'm sorry . the labels . i 'm sorry . the labels . professor f : yeah , ok . phd e : oh , also that professor f : so , ok , so let 's start over . so , ti timi timit 's hand - labeled , and and you 're saying about the spanish ? phd e : the spanish labels ? that was in different format , that the format for the em the program to train the neural network . professor f : oh , i see . phd e : i necessary to convert . and someti well phd a : so you 're just having a problem converting the labels . phd e : it 's it 's yeah . yeah , but n yes , because they have one program , feacalc , but no , l labecut , l labecut , but do n't does n't , eh , include the htk format to convert . professor f : mm - hmm . phd e : and , i do n't know what . i ask e even i ask to dan ellis what i can do that , and h they he say me that h he does does n't any any s any form to to do that . and at the end , i think that with labecut i can transfer to ascii format , and htk is an ascii format . and i m do another , uh , one program to put ascii format of htk to ase ay ac ascii format to exceed professor f : mm - hmm . phd e : and they used labcut to to pass . professor f : ok , yeah . phd e : actually that was complicated , professor f : so you phd e : but well , i know how we can did that do that . professor f : sure . so it 's just usual kind of uh sometimes say housekeeping , right ? to get these get these things sorted out . phd e : yeah . professor f : so it seems like there 's there 's some peculiarities of the , uh of each of these dimensions that are getting sorted out . and then , um , if if you work on getting the , uh , assembly lines together , and then the the pieces sort of get ready to go into the assembly line and gradually can start , you know , start turning the crank , more or less . and , uh , uh , we have a lot more computational capability here than they do at ogi , so i think that i if what 's what 's great about this is it sets it up in a very systematic way , so that , uh , once these all of these , you know , mundane but real problems get sorted out , we can just start turning the crank phd e : mm - hmm . professor f : and and push all of us through , and then finally figure out what 's best . grad c : yeah . um , i i was thinking two things . uh , the first thing was , um we we actually had thought of this as sort of like , um not not in stages , { comment } but more along the the time axis . just kind of like one stream at a time , professor f : mm - hmm . grad c : je - je - je - je - je { comment } check out the results and and go that way . professor f : oh , yeah , yeah , sure . no , i 'm just saying , i 'm just thinking of it like loops , grad c : uh - huh . professor f : right ? and so , y y y if you had three nested loops , that you have a choice for this , a choice for this , and a choice for that , grad c : yeah . mm - hmm . professor f : right ? and you 're going through them all . that that 's what i meant . grad c : right , right . professor f : and , uh , the thing is that once you get a better handle on how much you can realistically do , uh , um , concurrently on different machines , different sperts , and so forth , uh , and you see how long it takes on what machine and so forth , you can stand back from it and say , `` ok , if we look at all these combinations we 're talking about , and combinations of combinations , and so forth , `` you 'll probably find you ca n't do it all . grad c : mm - hmm . ok . professor f : ok , so then at that point , uh , we should sort out which ones do we throw away . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : which of the combinations across you know , what are the most likely ones , and and , uh , i still think we could do a lot of them . i mean , it would n't surprise me if we could do a hundred of them or something . but , probably when you include all the combinations , you 're actually talking about a thousand of them or something , and that 's probably more than we can do . uh , but a hundred is a lot . and and , uh , um yeah . grad c : yeah , and the the second thing was about scratch space . and i think you sent an email about , um , e scratch space for for people to work on . and i know that , uh , stephane 's working from an nt machine , so his his home directory exists somewhere else . professor f : his his stuff is somewhere else , yeah . yeah , i mean , my point i i want to yeah , thanks for bring it back to that . my th i want to clarify my point about that that that chuck repeated in his note . um . we 're over the next year or two , we 're gon na be upgrading the networks in this place , grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : but right now they 're still all te pretty much all ten megabit lines . and we have reached the this the machines are getting faster and faster . so , it actually has reached the point where it 's a significant drag on the time for something to move the data from one place to another . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : so , you you do n't w especially in something with repetitive computation where you 're going over it multiple times , you do do n't want to have the the data that you 're working on distant from where it 's being where the computation 's being done if you can help it . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : uh . now , we are getting more disk for the central file server , which , since it 's not a computational server , would seem to be a contradiction to what i just said . but the idea is that , uh , suppose you 're working with , uh , this big bunch of multi multilingual databases . um , you put them all in the central ser at the cen central file server . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : then , when you 're working with something and accessing it many times , you copy the piece of it that you 're working with over to some place that 's close to where the computation is and then do all the work there . and then that way you you wo n't have the the network you wo n't be clogging the network for yourself and others . that 's the idea . so , uh , it 's gon na take us it may be too late for this , uh , p precise crunch we 're in now , but , uh , we 're , uh it 's gon na take us a couple weeks at least to get the , uh , uh , the amount of disk we 're gon na be getting . we 're actually gon na get , uh , i think four more , uh , thirty - six gigabyte drives and , uh , put them on another another disk rack . we ran out of space on the disk rack that we had , so we 're getting another disk rack and four more drives to share between , uh primarily between this project and the meetings meetings project . um . but , uh , we 've put another i guess there 's another eighteen gigabytes that 's that 's in there now to help us with the immediate crunch . but , uh , are you saying so i do n't know where you 're stephane , where you 're doing your computations . if i so , you 're on an nt machine , so you 're using some external machine phd g : yeah , it , uh well , to it 's nutmeg and mustard , i think , professor f : do you know these yet ? phd g : i do n't know what kind . phd a : nuh - uh . professor f : yeah , ok . uh , are these are these , uh , computational servers , or something ? i 'm i 've been kind of out of it . phd g : yeah , i think , yeah . i think so . professor f : unfortunately , these days my idea of running comput of computa doing computation is running a spread sheet . uh , have n't been have n't been doing much computing personally , so . um . yeah , so those are computational servers . so i guess the other question is what disk there i space there is there on the computational servers . phd a : right . yeah , i 'm not sure what 's available on is it you said nutmeg and what was the other one ? phd g : mustard . phd a : mustard . ok . professor f : yeah , well , you 're the you 're the disk czar now . phd a : right , right . well , i 'll check on that . professor f : yeah . yeah , so basically , uh , chuck will be the one who will be sorting out what disk needs to be where , and so on , and i 'll be the one who says , `` ok , spend the money . `` so . which , i mean , n these days , uh , if you 're talking about scratch space , it does n't increase the , uh , need for backup , and , uh , i think it 's not that big a d and the the disks themselves are not that expensive . right now it 's phd a : what you can do , when you 're on that machine , is , uh , just go to the slash - scratch directory , and do a df minus k , and it 'll tell you if there 's space available . phd g : yeah . phd a : uh , and if there is then , uh professor f : but was n't it , uh i think dave was saying that he preferred that people did n't put stuff in slash - scratch . it 's more putting in d s xa or xb or , phd a : well , there 's different there , um , there 's professor f : right ? phd a : right . so there 's the slash - x - whatever disks , and then there 's slash - scratch . and both of those two kinds are not backed up . and if it 's called `` slash - scratch `` , it means it 's probably an internal disk to the machine . um . and so that 's the kind of thing where , like if um , ok , if you do n't have an nt , but you have a a a unix workstation , and they attach an external disk , { comment } it 'll be called `` slash - x - something `` uh , if it 's not backed up and it 'll be `` slash - d - something `` if it is backed up . and if it 's inside the machine on the desk , it 's called `` slash - scratch `` . but the problem is , if you ever get a new machine , they take your machine away . it 's easy to unhook the external disks , put them back on the new machine , but then your slash - scratch is gone . so , you do n't wan na put anything in slash - scratch that you wan na keep around for a long period of time . but if it 's a copy of , say , some data that 's on a server , you can put it on slash - scratch because , um , first of all it 's not backed up , and second it does n't matter if that machine disappears and you get a new machine because you just recopy it to slash - scratch . so tha that 's why i was saying you could check slash - scratch on those on on , um , mustard and and nutmeg to see if if there 's space that you could use there . professor f : i see . phd a : you could also use slash - x - whatever disks on mustard and nutmeg . phd g : yeah , yeah . phd a : um . yeah , and we do have i mean , yeah , so so you yeah , it 's better to have things local if you 're gon na run over them lots of times so you do n't have to go to the network . professor f : right , so es so especially if you 're right , if you 're if you 're taking some piece of the training corpus , which usually resides in where chuck is putting it all on the on the , uh , file server , uh , then , yeah , it 's fine if it 's not backed up because if it g g gets wiped out or something , y i mean it is backed up on the other disk . so , phd a : mm - hmm . professor f : yeah , ok . phd a : yeah , so , one of the things that i need to i 've started looking at uh , is this the appropriate time to talk about the disk space stuff ? professor f : sure . phd a : i 've started looking at , um , disk space . dan david , um , put a new , um , drive onto abbott , that 's an x disk , which means it 's not backed up . so , um , i 've been going through and copying data that is , you know , some kind of corpus stuff usually , that that we 've got on a cd - rom or something , onto that new disk to free up space on other disks . and , um , so far , um , i 've copied a couple of carmen 's , um , databases over there . we have n't deleted them off of the slash - dc disk that they 're on right now in abbott , um , uh , but we i would like to go through sit down with you about some of these other ones and see if we can move them onto , um , this new disk also . there 's there 's a lot more space there , phd g : yeah , ok . phd a : and it 'll free up more space for doing the experiments and things . so , anything that that you do n't need backed up , we can put on this new disk . um , but if it 's experiments and you 're creating files and things that you 're gon na need , you probably wan na have those on a disk that 's backed up , just in case something { comment } goes wrong . so . um so far i 've i 've copied a couple of things , but i have n't deleted anything off of the old disk to make room yet . um , and i have n't looked at the any of the aurora stuff , except for the spanish . so i i guess i 'll need to get together with you and see what data we can move onto the new disk . phd g : yeah , ok . professor f : um , yeah , i i just an another question occurred to me is is what were you folks planning to do about normalization ? phd g : um . well , we were thinking about using this systematically for all the experiments . um . professor f : this being ? phd g : so , but uh . so that this could be another dimension , but we think perhaps we can use the the best , uh , um , uh , normalization scheme as ogi is using , so , with parameters that they use there , professor f : yeah , i think that 's a good idea . phd g : u u professor f : i mean it 's i i we we seem to have enough dimensions as it is . so probably if we sort of take their phd g : yeah , yeah , yeah . professor f : probably the on - line line normalization because then it { comment } it 's if we do anything else , we 're gon na end up having to do on - line normalization too , so we may as well just do on - line normalization . phd g : mm - hmm . professor f : so . um . so that it 's plausible for the final thing . good . um . so , i guess , yeah , th the other topic i maybe we 're already there , or almost there , is goals for the for next week 's meeting . uh . i i i it seems to me that we wan na do is flush out what you put on the board here . uh . you know , maybe , have it be somewhat visual , a little bit . grad c : ok . like a s like a slide ? professor f : uh , so w we can say what we 're doing , yeah . and , um , also , if you have sorted out , um , this information about how long i roughly how long it takes to do on what and , you know , what we can how many of these trainings , uh , uh , and testings and so forth that we can realistically do , uh , then one of the big goals of going there next week would be to to actually settle on which of them we 're gon na do . and , uh , when we come back we can charge in and do it . um . anything else that i a a actually started out this this field trip started off with with , uh , stephane talking to hynek , so you may have you may have had other goals , uh , for going up , and any anything else you can think of would be we should think about accomplishing ? i mean , i 'm just saying this because maybe there 's things we need to do in preparation . phd g : oh , i think basically , this is this is , uh , yeah . professor f : ok . ok . uh . alright . and uh and the other the the last topic i had here was , um , uh d dave 's fine offer to to , uh , do something on this . i mean he 's doing he 's working on other things , but to to do something on this project . so the question is , `` where where could we , uh , uh , most use dave 's help ? `` phd g : um , yeah , i was thinking perhaps if , um , additionally to all these experiments , which is not really research , well i mean it 's , uh , running programs professor f : yeah . phd g : and , um , trying to have a closer look at the perhaps the , um , speech , uh , noise detection or , uh , voiced - sound - unvoiced - sound detection and which could be important in i for noise noise phd a : i think that would be a i think that 's a big big deal . because the you know , the thing that sunil was talking about , uh , with the labels , uh , labeling the database when it got to the noisy stuff ? the that that really throws things off . you know , having the noise all of a sudden , your your , um , speech detector , i mean the the , um what was it ? what was happening with his thing ? he was running through these models very quickly . he was getting lots of , uh , uh insertions , is what it was , in his recognitions . professor f : the only problem i mean , maybe that 's the right thing the only problem i have with it is exactly the same reason why you thought it 'd be a good thing to do . um , i i think that let 's fall back to that . but i think the first responsibility is sort of to figure out if there 's something that , uh , an an additional uh , that 's a good thing you remove the mike . go ahead , good . uh , uh . what an additional clever person could help with when we 're really in a crunch for time . right ? cuz dave 's gon na be around for a long time , phd e : yeah . professor f : right ? he 's he 's gon na be here for years . and so , um , phd g : yeah . professor f : over years , if he 's if he 's interested in , you know , voiced - unvoiced - silence , he could do a lot . but if there if in fact there 's something else that he could be doing , that would help us when we 're we 're sort of uh strapped for time we have we we 've , you know , only , uh , another another month or two to you know , with the holidays in the middle of it , um , to to get a lot done . if we can think of something some piece of this that 's going to be the very fact that it is sort of just work , and i and it 's running programs and so forth , is exactly why it 's possible that it some piece of could be handed to someone to do , because it 's not uh , yeah , so that that 's the question . and we do n't have to solve it right this s second , but if we could think of some some piece that 's that 's well defined , that he could help with , he 's expressing a will willingness to do that . phd a : what about training up a , um , a multilingual net ? phd e : yes , maybe to , mmm , put together the the label the labels between timit and spanish or something like that . phd g : yeah . yeah , so defining the superset , and , uh , joining the data and mmm . phd e : yeah . phd g : yeah . professor f : uh . yeah , that 's something that needs to be done in any event . phd e : yeah . professor f : so what we were just saying is that that , um i was arguing for , if possible , coming up with something that that really was development and was n't research because we we 're we have a time crunch . and so , uh , if there 's something that would would save some time that someone else could do on some other piece , then we should think of that first . see the thing with voiced - unvoiced - silence is i really think that that it 's to do to do a a a a poor job is is pretty quick , uh , or , you know , a so - so job . you can you can you can throw in a couple fea we know what what kinds of features help with it . you can throw something in . you can do pretty well . but i remember , in fact , when you were working on that , and you worked on for few months , as i recall , and you got to , say ninety - three percent , and getting to ninety - four really really hard . phd a : mm - hmm . another year . professor f : yeah , yeah . so , um and th th the other tricky thing is , since we are , uh , even though we 're not we do n't have a strict prohibition on memory size , and and computational complexity , uh , clearly there 's some limitation to it . so if we have to if we say we have to have a pitch detector , say , if we if we 're trying to incorporate pitch information , or at least some kind of harmonic harmonicity , or something , this is another whole thing , take a while to develop . anyway , it 's a very very interesting topic . i mean , one i think one of the a lot of people would say , and i think dan would also , uh , that one of the things wrong with current speech recognition is that we we really do throw away all the harmonicity information . uh , we try to get spectral envelopes . reason for doing that is that most of the information about the phonetic identity is in the spectral envelopes are not in the harmonic detail . but the harmonic detail does tell you something . like the fact that there is harmonic detail is is real important . so . um . so , uh . so i think yeah . so wh that so the the other suggestion that just came up was , well what about having him work on the , uh , multilingual super f superset kind of thing . uh , coming up with that and then , you know , training it training a net on that , say , um , from from , uh from timit or something . is that or uh , for multiple databases . what what would you what would you think it would wh what would this task consist of ? phd g : yeah , it would consist in , uh , well , um , creating the the superset , and , uh , modifying the lab labels for matching the superset . uh . professor f : uh , creating a superset from looking at the multiple languages , phd g : well , creating the mappings , actually . professor f : and then creating i m changing labels on timit ? phd g : yeah . professor f : or on or on multiple language multiple languages ? phd e : no . the multiple language . phd g : yeah , yeah , with the @ @ three languages , phd e : maybe for the other language because timit have more phone . professor f : yeah . phd a : so you 'd have to create a mapping from each language to the superset . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . phd g : from each language to the superset , phd e : yeah . phd g : yeah . grad c : there 's , um carmen was talking about this sampa thing , and it 's , um , it 's an effort by linguists to come up with , um , a machine readable ipa , um , sort of thing , right ? and , um , they they have a web site that stephane was showing us that has , um has all the english phonemes and their sampa correspondent , um , phoneme , professor f : yeah . grad c : and then , um , they have spanish , they have german , they have all all sorts of languages , um , mapping mapping to the sampa phonemes , which phd e : yeah , the tr the transcription , though , for albayzin is n the transcription are of sampa the same , uh , how you say , symbol that sampa appear . phd b : sampa ? what does `` sampa `` mean ? professor f : mm - hmm . hmm . phd e : but i do n't know if timit o how is timit . phd b : so , i mean professor f : what phd b : i 'm sorry . professor f : go ahead . phd b : i was gon na say , does that mean ipa is not really international ? grad c : no , it 's it 's saying phd a : it uses special diacritics and stuff , which you ca n't do with ascii characters . grad c : y ca n't print on ascii . phd e : yeah . phd a : so the sampa 's just mapping those . phd b : oh , i see . got it . professor f : what , uh has ogi done anything about this issue ? do they have do they have any kind of superset that they already have ? phd g : i do n't think so . well , they they they 're going actually the the other way , defining uh , phoneme clusters , apparently . well . professor f : aha . that 's right . uh , and that 's an interesting way to go too . phd a : so they just throw the speech from all different languages together , then cluster it into sixty or fifty or whatever clusters ? phd g : i think they 've not done it , uh , doing , uh , multiple language yet , but what they did is to training , uh , english nets with all the phonemes , and then training it in english nets with , uh , kind of seventeen , i think it was seventeen , uh , broad classes . phd a : automatically derived mm - hmm . automatically derived broad classes , or ? phd g : yeah . yeah , i think so . phd a : uh - huh . phd g : uh , and , yeah . and the result was that apparently , when testing on cross - language it was better . i think so . but hynek did n't add did n't have all the results when he showed me that , so , well . professor f : so that does make an interesting question , though . phd g : but professor f : is there 's some way that we should tie into that with this . um . right ? i mean , if if in fact that is a better thing to do , should we leverage that , rather than doing , um , our own . right ? so , if i if if they s i mean , we have i we have the the trainings with our own categories . and now we 're saying , `` well , how do we handle cross - language ? `` and one way is to come up with a superset , but they are als they 're trying coming up with clustered , and do we think there 's something wrong with that ? phd g : i think that there 's something wrong professor f : ok . what w phd g : or well , because well , for the moment we are testing on digits , and e i perhaps u using broad phoneme classes , it 's it 's ok for um , uh classifying the digits , but as soon as you will have more words , well , words can differ with only a single phoneme , and which could be the same , uh , class . professor f : i see . phd g : well . so . professor f : right . although , you are not using this for the phd g : so , i 'm professor f : you 're using this for the feature generation , though , not the phd g : yeah , but you will ask the net to put one for th th the phoneme class professor f : yeah . phd g : and so . phd a : so you 're saying that there may not be enough information coming out of the net to help you discriminate the words ? professor f : yeah . phd g : well . yeah , yeah . mmm . phd b : fact , most confusions are within the phone phone classes , right ? i think , uh , larry was saying like obstruents are only confused with other obstruents , et cetera , et cetera . professor f : yeah . yeah . yeah . phd g : yeah , this is another p yeah , another point . professor f : yeah . grad c : so so , maybe we could look at articulatory type stuff , professor f : but that 's what i thought they were gon na grad c : right ? professor f : did they not do that , or ? phd g : i do n't think so . well , professor f : so phd g : they were talking about , perhaps , but they d professor f : they 're talking about it , but that 's sort of a question whether they did phd g : w yeah . professor f : because that 's that 's the other route to go . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : instead of this , you know grad c : superclass . professor f : instead of the the the the superclass thing , which is to take so suppose y you do n't really mark arti to really mark articulatory features , you really wan na look at the acoustics and and see where everything is , and we 're not gon na do that . so , uh , the second class way of doing it is to look at the , uh , phones that are labeled and translate them into acoustic uh , uh articulatory , uh , uh , features . so it wo n't really be right . you wo n't really have these overlapping things and so forth , phd a : so the targets of the net are these ? professor f : but phd a : articulatory features . professor f : articulatory feature . phd a : but that implies that you can have more than one on at a time ? professor f : right . that 's right . phd a : ah . ok . professor f : you either do that or you have multiple nets . phd a : i see . professor f : um . and , um i do n't know if our software this if the qu versions of the quicknet that we 're using allows for that . do you know ? grad c : allows for ? professor f : multiple targets being one ? grad c : oh , um , we have gotten soft targets to to work . professor f : ok . so that that 'll work , yeah . grad c : yeah . professor f : ok . so , um , that 's another thing that could be done is that we could we could , uh , just translate instead of translating to a superset , just translate to articulatory features , some set of articulatory features and train with that . now the fact even though it 's a smaller number , it 's still fine because you have the the , uh , combinations . so , in fact , it has every , you know it had has has every distinction in it that you would have the other way . phd g : yeah . professor f : but it should go across languages better . phd a : we could do an interesting cheating experiment with that too . we could i do n't know , if you had uh the phone labels , you could replace them by their articulatory features and then feed in a vector with those uh , things turned on based on what they 're supposed to be for each phone to see if it if you get a big win . do you know what i 'm saying ? so , um , i mean , if your net is gon na be outputting , uh , a vector of basically of well , it 's gon na have probabilities , but let 's say that they were ones and zeros , then y and you know for each , um , i do n't know if you know this for your testing data , but if you know for your test data , you know , what the string of phones is and and you have them aligned , then you can just instead of going through the net , just create the vector for each phone and feed that in to see if that data helps . eh , eh , what made me think about this is , i was talking with hynek and he said that there was a guy at a t - andt who spent eighteen months working on a single feature . and because they had done some cheating experiments professor f : this was the guy that we were just talking a that we saw on campus . so , this was larry saul who did this did this . phd a : oh , ok . professor f : he used sonorants . phd a : right , ok , professor f : was what he was doing . phd a : right . and they they had done a cheating experiment or something , right ? professor f : yeah . phd a : and determined that professor f : he he di he did n't mention that part . phd a : well , hynek said that that , i guess before they had him work on this , they had done some experiment where if they could get that one feature right , it dramatically improved the result . professor f : but . i see . ok . phd a : so i was thinking , you know it made me think about this , that if it 'd be an interesting experiment just to see , you know , if you did get all of those right . professor f : should be . because if you get all of them in there , that defines all of the phones . so that 's that 's equivalent to saying that you 've got got all the phones right . phd a : right . professor f : so , if that does n't help , there 's phd a : yeah . professor f : although , yeah , it would be make an interesting cheating experiment because we are using it in this funny way , phd a : yeah . professor f : where we 're converting it into features . phd a : and then you also do n't know what error they 've got on the htk side . you know ? it sort of gives you your the best you could hope for , kind of . professor f : yeah . grad c : mmm . mmm , i see . phd b : the soft training of the nets still requires the vector to sum to one , though , right ? grad c : to sum up to one . phd b : so you ca n't really feed it , like , two articulatory features that are on at the same time with ones cuz it 'll kind of normalize them down to one half or something like that , for instance . phd g : but perhaps you have the choice of the final nonl grad c : right . nonlinearity ? phd g : uh , nonlinearity , yeah . is it always softmax grad c : it 's sig no , it 's actually sigmoid - x phd g : or ? yeah . grad c : for the phd g : so if you choose sigmoid it 's o it 's ok ? grad c : you , um professor f : did we just run out of disk , grad c : i think i think apparently , the , uh professor f : or ? phd b : why do n't you just choose linear ? right ? grad c : what 's that ? phd b : linear outputs ? grad c : linear outputs ? phd b : is n't that what you 'll want ? if you 're gon na do a kl transform on it . grad c : right , right . right , but during the training , we would train on sigmoid - x phd b : oh , you yeah ? grad c : and then at the end just chop off the final nonlinearity . </s>
<s> what concerns did the team have about disk space ? </s> grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : so , you you do n't w especially in something with repetitive computation where you 're going over it multiple times , you do do n't want to have the the data that you 're working on distant from where it 's being where the computation 's being done if you can help it . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : uh . now , we are getting more disk for the central file server , which , since it 's not a computational server , would seem to be a contradiction to what i just said . but the idea is that , uh , suppose you 're working with , uh , this big bunch of multi multilingual databases . um , you put them all in the central ser at the cen central file server . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : then , when you 're working with something and accessing it many times , you copy the piece of it that you 're working with over to some place that 's close to where the computation is and then do all the work there . and then that way you you wo n't have the the network you wo n't be clogging the network for yourself and others . that 's the idea . so , uh , it 's gon na take us it may be too late for this , uh , p precise crunch we 're in now , but , uh , we 're , uh it 's gon na take us a couple weeks at least to get the , uh , uh , the amount of disk we 're gon na be getting . we 're actually gon na get , uh , i think four more , uh , thirty - six gigabyte drives and , uh , put them on another another disk rack . we ran out of space on the disk rack that we had , so we 're getting another disk rack and four more drives to share between , uh primarily between this project and the meetings meetings project . um . but , uh , we 've put another i guess there 's another eighteen gigabytes that 's that 's in there now to help us with the immediate crunch . but , uh , are you saying so i do n't know where you 're stephane , where you 're doing your computations . if i so , you 're on an nt machine , so you 're using some external machine phd g : yeah , it , uh well , to it 's nutmeg and mustard , i think , professor f : do you know these yet ? phd g : i do n't know what kind . phd a : nuh - uh . professor f : yeah , ok . uh , are these are these , uh , computational servers , or something ? i 'm i 've been kind of out of it . phd g : yeah , i think , yeah . i think so . professor f : unfortunately , these days my idea of running comput of computa doing computation is running a spread sheet . uh , have n't been have n't been doing much computing personally , so . um . yeah , so those are computational servers . so i guess the other question is what disk there i space there is there on the computational servers . phd a : right . yeah , i 'm not sure what 's available on is it you said nutmeg and what was the other one ? phd g : mustard . phd a : mustard . ok . professor f : yeah , well , you 're the you 're the disk czar now . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the cheating experiment ? </s> phd a : so , um , i mean , if your net is gon na be outputting , uh , a vector of basically of well , it 's gon na have probabilities , but let 's say that they were ones and zeros , then y and you know for each , um , i do n't know if you know this for your testing data , but if you know for your test data , you know , what the string of phones is and and you have them aligned , then you can just instead of going through the net , just create the vector for each phone and feed that in to see if that data helps . eh , eh , what made me think about this is , i was talking with hynek and he said that there was a guy at a t - andt who spent eighteen months working on a single feature . and because they had done some cheating experiments professor f : this was the guy that we were just talking a that we saw on campus . so , this was larry saul who did this did this . phd a : oh , ok . professor f : he used sonorants . phd a : right , ok , professor f : was what he was doing . phd a : right . and they they had done a cheating experiment or something , right ? professor f : yeah . phd a : and determined that professor f : he he di he did n't mention that part . phd a : well , hynek said that that , i guess before they had him work on this , they had done some experiment where if they could get that one feature right , it dramatically improved the result . professor f : but . i see . ok . phd a : so i was thinking , you know it made me think about this , that if it 'd be an interesting experiment just to see , you know , if you did get all of those right . professor f : should be . because if you get all of them in there , that defines all of the phones . so that 's that 's equivalent to saying that you 've got got all the phones right . phd a : right . professor f : so , if that does n't help , there 's phd a : yeah . professor f : although , yeah , it would be make an interesting cheating experiment because we are using it in this funny way , phd a : yeah . professor f : where we 're converting it into features . phd a : and then you also do n't know what error they 've got on the htk side . you know ? it sort of gives you your the best you could hope for , kind of . professor f : yeah . grad c : mmm . mmm , i see . phd b : the soft training of the nets still requires the vector to sum to one , though , right ? grad c : to sum up to one . phd b : so you ca n't really feed it , like , two articulatory features that are on at the same time with ones cuz it 'll kind of normalize them down to one half or something like that , for instance . phd g : but perhaps you have the choice of the final nonl grad c : right . nonlinearity ? phd g : uh , nonlinearity , yeah . is it always softmax grad c : it 's sig no , it 's actually sigmoid - x phd g : or ? yeah . grad c : for the phd g : so if you choose sigmoid it 's o it 's ok ? grad c : you , um professor f : did we just run out of disk , grad c : i think i think apparently , the , uh professor f : or ? phd b : why do n't you just choose linear ? right ? grad c : what 's that ? phd b : linear outputs ? grad c : linear outputs ? phd b : is n't that what you 'll want ? if you 're gon na do a kl transform on it . grad c : right , right . right , but during the training , we would train on sigmoid - x </s>
<s> what was the focus of the meeting ? . </s> grad c : now can you give me the uh remote t ? professor d : ok , so eva , co uh could you read your numbers ? grad a : go ahead and read . ok . professor d : yeah . grad c : alright . professor d : yeah , let 's get started . um hopefully nancy will come , if not , she wo n't . grad b : uh , robert , do you uh have any way to turn off your uh screensaver on there so that it 's not going off every uh , it seems to have about at two minute grad c : yeah , i 've i uh it 's not that i did n't try . and um i i told it to stay on forever and ever , but if it 's not plugged in it just does n't obey my commands . it has a mind . grad b : got it . grad c : but i i just you know , sort of keep on wiggling . undergrad e : wants to conserve . grad b : yeah , ok . grad c : but uh we 'll just be m m working on it at intensity so it does n't happen . we 'll see . should we plunge right into it ? professor d : yeah . grad c : so , would you like to professor d : i think so . grad c : so what i 've tried to do here is list all the decision nodes that we have identified on this side . commented and what they 're about and sort of the properties we may um give them . and here are the uh tasks to be implemented via our data collection . so all of these tasks the reading is out of these tasks more or less imply that the user wants to go there , sometime or the other . and analogously for example , here we have our eva um intention . and these are the data tasks where w we can assume the person would like to enter , view or just approach the thing . analogously the same on the object information we can see that , you know , we have sort of created these tasks before we came up with our decision nodes so there 's a lot of things where we have no analogous tasks , and that may or may not be a problem . we can change the tasks slightly if we feel that we should have data for e sort of for every decision node so trying to im um implant the intention of going to a place now , going to a place later on the same tour , or trying to plant the intention of going sometime on the next tour , or the next day or whenever . professor d : right , right . grad c : but i think that might be overdoing it a little . professor d : so yeah . so let me pop up a level . and uh s s make sure that we 're all oriented the same . so what we 're gon na do today is two related things . uh one of them is to work on the semantics of the belief - net which is going to be the main inference engine for thi the system uh making decisions . and decisions are going to turn out to be parameter choices for calls on other modules . so f the natural language understanding thing is uh , we think gon na only have to choose parameters , but you know , a fairly large set of parameters . so to do that , we need to do two things . one of which is figure out what all the choices are , which we 've done a fair amount . then we need to figure out what influences its choices and finally we have to do some technical work on the actual belief relations and presumably estimates of the probabilities and stuff . but we are n't gon na do the probability stuff today . technical stuff we 'll do uh another day . probably next week . but we are gon na worry about all the decisions and the things that pert that contribute to them . and we 're also , sort of uh in the same process , going to work with fey on what there should be in the dialogues . so one of the s steps that 's coming up real soon is to actually get subjects uh in here , and have them actually record like this . uh record dialogues more or less . and depending on what fey sort of provokes them to say , we 'll get information on different things . grad c : well how people phrase different intentions more or less , professor d : so fo - v yeah people with the phrase them and so uh for , you know , keith and people worrying about what constructions people use , uh we have some i we have some ways to affect that by the way the dialogues go . so what robert kindly did , is to lay out a table of the kinds of uh things that that might come up , and , the kinds of decisions . so the uh uh on the left are decision nodes , and discreet values . so if if we 're right , you can get by with um just this middle column worth of decisions , and it 's not all that many , and it 's perfectly feasible technically to build belief - nets that will do that . and he has a handout . grad c : yeah . maybe it was too fast plunging in there , because j we have two updates . professor d : yeah . grad c : um you can look at this if you want , these are what our subject 's going to have to fill out . any comments i can can still be made and the changes will be put in correspondingly . undergrad e : m yes . grad c : let me summarize in two sentences , mainly for eva 's benefit , who probably has not heard about the data collection , at all . or have you heard about it ? grad a : not that much you did n't . grad c : no . ok . we were gon na put this in front of people . they give us some information on themselves . then then they will read uh a task where lots of german words are sort of thrown in between . and um and they have to read isolated proper names and these change professor d : s i do n't see a release grad c : no , this is not the release form . this is the speaker information form . professor d : got it . ok , fine . ok . grad c : the release form is over there in that box . professor d : alright , fair enough . grad c : and um and then they gon na have to f um um choose from one of these tasks , which are listed here . they they pick a couple , say three uh uh six as a matter of fact . six different things they sort of think they would do if they were in heidelberg or traveling someplace and um and they have a map . like this . very sketchy , simplified map . and they can take notes on that map . and then they call this computer system that works perfectly , and understands everything . and um grad b : this is a fictional system obviously , grad c : the comp yeah , the computer system sits right in front of you , that 's fey . undergrad e : i 've i understand everything . professor d : and she does know everything . undergrad e : yes i do . grad c : and she has a way of making this machine talk . so she can copy sentences into a window , or type really fast and this machine will use speech synthesis to produce that . so if you ask `` how do i get to the castle `` then a m s several seconds later it 'll come out of here `` in order to get to the castle you do `` grad b : yeah . grad c : ok ? and um and then after three tasks the system breaks down . and fey comes on the phone as a human operator . and says `` sorry the system broke down but let 's continue . `` and we sort of get the idea what people do when they s think they speak to a machine and what people say when they think they speak to a human , or know , or assume they speak to a human . grad a : ok . huh . grad b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad c : that 's the data collection . and um and fey has some thirty subjects lined up ? something ? undergrad e : yeah . grad c : and um and they 're r ready uh to roll . undergrad e : and more and more every day . grad c : and we 're gon na start tomorrow at three ? four ? one ? undergrad e : tomorrow , well we do n't know for sure . because we do n't know whether that person is coming or not , grad c : ok . around four - ish . undergrad e : but grad c : and um we 're still l looking for a room on the sixth floor because they stole away that conference room . um behind our backs . but professor d : well , there are these uh uh oh , i see , we have to yeah , it 's tricky . we 'll let 's let we 'll do that off - line , ok . grad c : yeah , but i i i it 's happening . david and and jane and and lila are working on that as we speak . ok . that was the uh the data collection in a nutshell . and um i can report a so i did this but i also tried to do this so if i click on here , is n't this wonderful ? we get to the uh uh belief - net just focusing on on the g go - there node . uh analogously this would be sort of the reason node and the timing node and so forth . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : and what w what happened is that um design - wise i 'd sort of n noticed that we can we still get a lot of errors from a lot of points to one of these sub go - there user go - there situation nodes . so i came up with a couple of additional nodes here where um whether the user is thrifty or not , and what his budget is currently like , is going to result in some financial state of the user . how much will he is he willing to spend ? or can spend . being the same at this just the money available , which may influence us , whether he wants to go there if it is you know charging tons of dollars for admission or its gon na g cost a lot of t e whatever . twenty - two million to fly to international space station , you know . just not all people can do that . professor d : right . grad c : so , and this actually turned out to be pretty key , because having specified sort of these uh this this intermediate level um and sort of noticing that everything that happens here let 's go to our favorite endpoint one is again more or less we have um then the situation nodes contributing to the the endpoint situation node , which contributes to the endpoint and so forth . um i can now sort of draw straight lines from these to here , meaning it g of course goes where the sub - s everything that comes from situation , everything that comes from user goes with the sub - u , and whatever we specify for the so - called `` keith node `` , or the discourse , what comes from the um parser , construction parser , um will contribute to the d and the ontology to the sub - o node . and um one just s sort of has to watch which also final decision node so it does n't make sense t to figure out whether he wants to enter , view or approach an object if he never wants to go there in the first place . but this makes the design thing fairly simple . and um now all w that 's left to do then is the cpg 's , the conditional probabilities , for the likelihood of a person having enough money , actually wanting to go a place if it costs , you know this or that . and um ok . and once um bhaskara has finished his classwork that 's where we 're gon na end up doing . you get involved in that process too . and um and for now uh the the question is `` how much of these decisions do we want to build in explicitly into our data collection ? `` so um , one could sort of think of you know we could call the z see or you know , people who visit the zoo we could s call it `` visit the zoo tomorrow `` , so we have an intention of seeing something , but not now but later . professor d : right . yeah . yeah , so let 's s uh s see i th i think that from one point of view , uh , um , all these places are the same , so that d d that , um in terms of the linguistics and stuff , there may be a few different kinds of places , so i th i it seems to me that we ought to decide you know , what things are k are actually going to matter to us . and um , so the zoo , and the university and the castle , et cetera . um are all big - ish things that um you know have different parts to them , and one of them might be fine . grad c : hmm . hmm , hmm . yeah the the reason why we did it that way , as a as a reminder , is uh no person is gon na do all of them . professor d : and grad c : they 're just gon na select u um , according to their preferences . professor d : yeah , yeah . grad c : `` ah , yeah , i usually visit zoos , or i usually visit castles , or i usually `` and then you pick that one . professor d : right , no no , but but s th point is to to y to build a system that 's got everything in it that might happen you do one thing . undergrad e : they 're redundant . professor d : t to build a system that um had the most data on a relatively confined set of things , you do something else . and the speech people , for example , are gon na do better if they if things come up uh repeatedly . now , of course , if everybody says exactly the same thing then it 's not interesting . so , all i 'm saying is i th there 's there 's a kind of question of what we 're trying t to accomplish . and i think my temptation for the data gathering would be to uh , you know and each person is only gon na do it once , so you do n't have to worry about them being bored , so if if it 's one service , one luxury item , you know , one big - ish place , and so forth and so on , um then my guess is that that the data is going to be easier to handle . now of course you have this i guess possible danger that somehow there 're certain constructions that people use uh when talking about a museum that they would n't talk about with a university and stuff , um but i guess i 'm i uh m my temptation is to go for simpler . you know , less variation . but i do n't know what other people think about this in terms of grad b : so i do n't exactly understand professor d : uh grad b : like i i i guess we 're trying to limit the detail of our ontology or types of places that someone could go , right ? but who is it that has to care about this , or what component of the system ? professor d : oh , well , uh th i think there are two places where it comes up . one is uh in the th these people who are gon na take this and and try to do speech with it . grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : uh lots of pronunciations of th of the same thing are going to give you better data than l you know , a few pronunciations of lots more things . that 's one . grad b : so we would rather just ask uh have a bunch of people talk about the zoo , uh and assume that that will that the constructions that they use there will give us everything we need to know about these sort of zoo , castle , whatever type things , these bigger places . professor d : bigger y yeah thi well this is a question for grad b : and that way you get the speech data of people saying `` zoo `` over and over again or whatever too . professor d : yeah . yeah . yeah . so this is a question for you , grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : and , you know , if we if we do , and we probably will , actually try to uh build a prototype , uh probably we could get by with the prototype only handling a few of them anyway . so , um grad c : yeah , the this was sort of these are all different sort of activities . um but i think y i i got the point and i think i like it . we can do put them in a more hierarchical fashion . so , `` go to place `` and then give them a choice , you know either they 're the symphony type or opera type or the tourist site guide type or the nightclub disco type person and they say `` yeah this is on that `` go to big - ish place `` , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : this is what i would do . `` and then we have the `` fix `` thing , and then maybe `` do something the other day `` thing , so . my question is i guess , to some extent , we should y we just have to try it out and see if it works . it would be challenging , in in a sense , to try to make it so so complex that they even really should schedule , or to plan it , uh , a more complex thing in terms of ok , you know , they should get the feeling that there are these s six things they have to do and they sh can be done maybe in two days . professor d : well yeah . grad c : so they make these decisions , professor d : well i think th th grad c : `` can i go there tomorrow ? `` professor d : yeah . grad c : or you know influences grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : yeah . well , i think it 's easy enough to set that up if that 's your expectation . so , the uh system could say , `` well , uh we 'd like to to set up your program for two days in heidelberg , you know , let 's first think about all the things you might like to do . so there th i i in i mean in i th i i 'm sure that if that 's what you did then they would start telling you about that , and then you could get into um various things about ordering , if you wanted . grad c : mm - hmm . yeah . yeah , but i think this is part of the instructor 's job . and that can be done , sort of to say , `` ok now we 've picked these six tasks . `` `` now you have you can call the system and you have two days . `` professor d : i 'm sorry . grad c : and th w professor d : no , we have to help we have to decide . fey will p carry out whatever we decide . but we have to decide you know , what is the appropriate scenario . that 's what we 're gon na talk about t yeah . grad c : yep , yep . phd f : but these are two different scenarios entirely . i mean , one is a planner the other , it kind of give you instructions on the spot grad c : yeah , but th the i do n't i 'm not really interested in sort of `` phase planning `` capabilities . but it 's more the how do people phrase these planning requests ? so are we gon na masquerade the system as this as you said simple response system , `` i have one question i get one response `` , or should we allow for a certain level of complexity . and a i w think the data would be nicer if we get temporal references . professor d : well , so keith , what do you think ? grad b : well , um it seems that yeah , i mean , off the top of my head it kinda seems like you would probably just want , you know , richer data , more complex stuff going on , people trying to do more complex sets of things . i mean you know , if our goal is to really sort of be able to handle a whole bunch of different stuff , then throwing harder situations at people will get them to do more linguistic more interesting linguistic stuff . but i mean i 'm i 'm not really sure uh , because i do n't fully understand like what our choices are of ways to do this here yet . grad c : i mean w we have tested this and a y have you heard listen to the f first two or th as a matter of fact the second person is uh is was faced with exactly this kind of setup . grad b : i started to listen to one and it was just like , um , uh , sort of depressing . grad c : and grad b : i thought i 'd just sort of listen to the beginning part and the person was just sort of reading off her script or something . and . grad c : oh , ok . that was the first subject . professor d : yeah . grad b : yeah . professor d : first one was n't very good . grad b : yeah . grad c : yeah . grad b : so um , i grad c : um , it is already with this it got pretty with this setup and that particular subject it got pretty complex . undergrad e : although grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : maybe i suggest we make some fine tuning of these , get sort of run through ten or so subjects grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : and then take a breather , and see whether we wan na make it more complex or not , depending on what what sort of results we 're getting . grad b : right . yeah . it in fact , um , i am just you know today , next couple days gon na start really diving into this data . i 've basically looked at one of the files you know one of these l y y y you gave me those dozens of files and i looked at one of them which was about ten sentences , found fifteen , twenty different construction types that we would have to look for and so on and like , `` alright , well , let 's start here . `` um . so i have n't really gone into the , you know looked at all of the stuff that 's going on . so i do n't really right , i mean , once i start doing that i 'll have more to say about this kind of thing . grad c : and y and always professor d : but well th but you did say something important , which is that um you can probably keep yourself fairly well occupied uh with the simple cases for quite a while . grad b : yeah . professor d : although , obviously th so so that sa s does suggest that uh , now , i have looked at all the data , and it 's pre it 's actually at least to an amateur , quite redundant . grad b : yeah , yeah . professor d : that that it was it was very stylized , and quite a lot of people said more or less the same thing . grad b : i um i did sort of scan it at first and noticed that , and then looked in detail at one of them . professor d : yeah . grad b : but yeah , yeah i noticed that , too . professor d : so , we we we wan na do more than that . grad c : and with this we 're getting more . no question . professor d : ok . right . so grad c : uh w do we wan na get going beyond more , which is sort of the professor d : well , ok , so let 's let 's take let 's i i think your suggestion is good , which is we 'll do a b uh a batch . ok . and , uh , fey , how long is it gon na be till you have ten subjects ? couple days ? or thr f a a week ? or i do n't i do n't have a feel for th undergrad e : um i can yeah , i mean i s i think can probably schedule ten people , uh , whenever . professor d : well , it 's it 's up to you , i mean i j i uh e we do n't have any huge time pressure . it 's just when you have t undergrad e : how long will it be ? professor d : yeah . undergrad e : um i i would say maybe two weeks . professor d : oh , ok . so let 's do this . let 's plan next monday , ok , to have a review of what we have so far . grad c : this means audio , but professor d : and huh ? grad c : no transcriptions of course , yeah . professor d : no , we wo n't have the transcriptions , but what we should be able to do and i do n't know if , fey , if you will have time to do this , but it would be great if you could , um , not transcribe it all , but pick out uh , some stuff . i mean we could lis uh just sit here and listen to it all . are you gon na have the audio on the web site ? ok . grad c : until we reach the gigabyte thing and david johnson s ki kills me . and we 're gon na put it on the web site . yeah . professor d : oh , we could get i mean , you can buy another disk for two hundred dollars , right ? i mean it 's it 's not like ok . so , we 'll take care of david johnson . grad c : no , he uh , he he has been solving all our problems or is wonderful , undergrad e : take care of him . professor d : alright . so we 'll buy a disk . but anyway , so , um , if you if you can think of a way to uh , point us to th to interesting things , sort of as you 're doing this or or something uh , make your make notes or something that that this is , you know , something worth looking at . and other than that , yeah i guess we 'll just have to uh , listen although i guess it 's only ten minutes each , right ? roughly . undergrad e : well , i guess . i 'm not sure how long it 's actually going to take . grad c : the reading task is a lot shorter . that was cut by fifty percent . and the reading , nobody 's interested in that except for the speech people . professor d : right . no , we do n't care about that at all . grad c : so . it 's actually like five minutes dialogue . professor d : i b my guess is it 's gon na be ten . grad c : ten minutes is long . professor d : people i understand , but people people you know uh undergrad e : it feels like a long time grad c : yeah . it feels like forever when you 're doing it , professor d : yeah . grad c : but then it turns out to be three minutes and forty five seconds . professor d : yeah . grad b : yeah . professor d : could be . ok . i was thinking people would , you know , hesitate and whatever . whatever it is we 'll we 'll deal with it . grad c : yeah , it 's not and it 's fun . professor d : ok , so that 'll be that 'll be um on on the web page . that 's great . um but anyway yeah , so i think it 's a good idea to start with the sort of relatively straight forward res just response system . and then if we want to uh get them to start doing uh multiple step planning with a whole bunch of things and then organize them an um tell them which things are near each other and you know , any of that stuff . uh you know , `` which things would you like to do tuesday morning ? `` grad c : yeah . professor d : so yeah i th that seems pretty straight forward . undergrad e : but were you saying that grad c : i need those back by the way . undergrad e : yeah . grad c : that 's for professor d : i 'm sorry , fey , what ? undergrad e : that w maybe one thing we should do is go through this list and sort of select things that are categories and then o offer only one member of that category ? professor d : that 's what i was suggesting for the first round , yeah . grad b : so rather than having zoo and castle . undergrad e : and then , i mean , they could be alternate versions of the same if you wanted data on different constructions . professor d : they could , but i but i uh tha eh they c yeah , but uh but undergrad e : like one person gets the version with the zoo as a choice , and the other person gets the professor d : you could , but i but i i i think in the short run , grad c : and no , th the per the person do n't get it . i mean , this is why we did it , because when we gave them just three tasks for w part - a and three tasks for part - b a professor d : right . yeah . undergrad e : well no , they could still choose . they just would n't be able to choose both zoo and say , touring the castle . grad c : exactly . this is limiting the choices , but yeah . right . ok , sorry . but um i i think this approach will very well work , but the person was able to look at it and say `` ok , this is what i would actually do . `` undergrad e : yeah . grad c : yeah . undergrad e : he was vicious . grad c : ok , we got ta we got ta disallow uh traveling to zoos and uh castles at the same time , sort of undergrad e : i mean there they are significantly different , but . grad c : but no , they 're i mean they 're sort of this is where tour becomes you know tourists maybe a bit different undergrad e : yeah , i guess so . grad c : and , um , these are just places where you you enter um , much like here . professor d : yeah . grad c : but we can uh professor d : yeah , in fact if y if y if you use the right verb for each in common , like at you know , `` attend a theater , symphony or opera `` is is a group , and `` tour the university , castle or zoo `` , grad c : mm - hmm yeah . professor d : all of these d do have this kind of `` tour `` um aspect about the way you would go to them . and uh , the movie theater is probably also uh e is a `` attend `` et cetera . grad c : attend , yeah . professor d : so it may turn out to be not so many different kinds of things , grad c : hmm , mm - hmm . professor d : and then , what one would expect is that that the sentence types would uh their responses would tend to be grouped according to the kind of activity , you would expect . grad b : mm - hmm . phd f : but i mean i it seem that um there is a difference between going to see something , and things like `` exchange money `` or `` dine out `` professor d : oh , absolutely . yeah . phd f : uh @ @ function , yeah . grad c : yeah , this is where yeah th the function stuff is definitely different and the getting information or g stuff yeah . ok . but this is open . so since people gon na still pick something , we we 're not gon na get any significant amount of redundancy . and for reasons , we do n't want it , really , in that sense . and um we would be ultimately more interested in getting all the possible ways of people asking , oh , for different things with or with a computer . and so if you can think of any other sort of high level tasks a tourist may do just always just m mail them to us and we 'll sneak them into the collection . we 're not gon na do much statistical stuff with it . professor d : we do n't have enough . grad c : no . but it seems like since we since we are getting towards uh subject uh fifty subjects and if we can keep it up um to a uh sort of five four - ish per week rate , we may even reach the one hundred before fey t takes off to chicago . undergrad e : that means that one hundred people have to be interested . grad b : good luck . undergrad e : yeah . professor d : well , um , these are all f people off campus s from campus so far , undergrad e : yeah . professor d : right ? undergrad e : yeah . professor d : so we yeah we do n't know how many we can get next door at the uh shelter for example . uh for ten bucks , probably quite a few . grad b : yeah . that 's right . professor d : yeah . so , alright , so let 's go let 's go back then , to the the chart with all the decisions and stuff , and see how we 're doing . do do people think that , you know this is is gon na um cover what we need , or should we be thinking about more ? grad c : okay , in terms of decision nodes ? i mean , go - there is is a yes or no . right ? grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : i 'm also interested in th in this `` property `` uh line here , so if you look at sorry , look at that um , timing was um i have these three . do we need a final differentiation there ? now , later on the same tour , sometimes on the next tour . grad b : what 's this idea of `` next tour `` ? i mean grad c : it 's sort of next day , so you 're doing something now and you have planned to do these three four things , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : and you can do something immediately , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : you could sort of tag it on to that tour grad b : or ok . grad c : or you can say this is something i would do s i wan na do sometime l in my life , basically . grad b : ok . ok . so so this tour is sort of just like th the idea of current s round of of touristness or whatever , professor d : right . yeah . yeah , probably between stops back at the hotel . grad b : ok . got it . professor d : i mean if you if if you wanted precise about it , uh you know , grad b : got it . professor d : uh and i think that 's the way tourists do organize their lives . grad b : sure , sure , sure . professor d : you know , `` ok , we 'll go back to the hotel and then we 'll go off and `` phd f : so all tours b a tour happens only within one day ? professor d : it phd f : so the next tour will be tomorrow ? professor d : right . for this . grad b : ok . just to be totally clear . ok . grad c : well , my visit to prague there were some nights where i never went back to the hotel , so whether that counts as a two - day tour or not we 'll have to think . grad b : you just spend the whole time at u fleku or something , phd f : yeah . professor d : i w we will we will not ask you more . undergrad e : right . phd f : right . undergrad e : that 's enough . grad c : i do n't know . what is the uh the the english co uh um cognate if you want , for `` sankt nimmerlandstag `` ? grad b : keine ahnung grad c : sort of `` we 'll do it on when you say on that d day it means it 'll never happen . professor d : yeah . right . grad c : do you have an expression ? probably you sh grad b : not that i know of actually . grad c : yeah , when hell yep , we 'll do it when hell freezes over . professor d : yeah . grad c : so maybe that should be another property in there . phd f : right . professor d : yeah . yeah . undergrad e : never . grad c : ok . um , the reason why why do we go there in the first place ie uh it 's either uh for sightseeing , for meeting people , for running errands , or doing business . entertainment is a good one in there , i think . i agree . grad b : so , business is supposed to uh , be sort of it like professional type stuff , right , or something like that ? ok . um . grad c : i mean this w this is uh an old uh johno thing . he sort of had it in there . `` who is the the tour is the person ? `` so it might be a tourist , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : it might be a business man who 's using the system , who wants to sort of go to some grad b : yeah . professor d : yeah , or or both . grad b : yeah . yeah , i mean like for example my my father is about to travel to prague . he 'll be there for two weeks . he is going to uh he 's there to teach a course at the business school but he also is touring around and so he may have some mixture of these things . professor d : sure . right . grad c : he would phd f : what ab what do you have in mind in terms of um socializing ? what kind of activities ? grad c : eh , just meeting people , basically . `` i want to meet someone somewhere `` , which be puts a very heavy constraint on the `` eva `` phd f : oh grad b : yeah . grad c : you know , because then if you 're meeting somebody at the town hall , you 're not entering it usually , you 're just want to approach it . grad b : so i mean , does this capture , like , where do you put `` exchange money `` is an errand , right ? but what about uh professor d : mm - hmm grad b : so , like `` go to a movie `` is now entertainment , `` dine out `` is phd f : socializing , i guess . professor d : no , i i well , i dunno . let let well , we 'll put it somewhere , grad b : so i mean right . professor d : but but um i would say that if `` dine out `` is a special c uh if you 're doing it for that purpose then it 's entertainment . grad b : yeah . professor d : and we 'll also as y as you 'll s further along we 'll get into business about `` well , you 're you know this is going over a meal time , do you wan na stop for a meal or pick up food or something ? `` grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : and that 's different . that 's that 's sort of part of th that 's not a destination reason , that 's sort of `` en passant , `` right . grad b : right . grad c : that goes with the `` energy depletion `` function , blech . grad b : yeah . professor d : right , yeah . grad c : ok , `` endpoint `` . grad b : `` tourist needs food , badly `` professor d : right . grad c : `` endpoint `` is pretty clear . um , `` mode `` , uh , i have found three , `` drive there `` , `` walk there `` uh or `` be driven `` , which means bus , taxi , bart . yeah . yep . professor d : obviously taxis are very different than buses , but on the other hand the system does n't have any public transport this the planner system does n't have any public transport in it yet . grad c : so this granularity would suffice , i think w if we say the person probably , based on the utterance we on the situation we can conclude wants to drive there , walk there , or use some other form of transportation . grad b : h how much of heidelberg can you get around by public transport ? i mean in terms of the interesting bits . there 's lots of bits where you do n't really i 've only ev was there ten years ago , for a day , so i do n't remember , but . i mean , like the sort of the tourist - y bits professor d : mm - well , grad c : everywhere . grad b : is it like professor d : you ca n't get to the philosophers ' way very well , grad b : yeah . professor d : but , i mean there are hikes that you ca n't get to , but grad c : yeah . professor d : but i think other things you can , if i remember right . grad a : so is like `` biking there `` part of like `` driving there `` , grad c : yeah , um we actually biking should be should be a separate point because we have a very strong bicycle planning component . grad a : or ? undergrad e : mmm g that 's good . professor d : put it in . grad c : bicycles c should be in there , but , will we have bic i mean is this realistic ? i mean grad b : yeah . professor d : ok , we can leave it out , i guess . grad b : yeah . grad c : we can we can sort of uh , drive grad b : i would i would lump it with `` walk `` because hills matter . grad c : yeah . grad b : right ? you know . things like that . grad c : yeah . professor d : ok . skateboards right , anyway . phd f : right . professor d : scooters , right ? grad c : ok , `` length `` is um , you wan na get this over with as fast as possible , professor d : alright . grad c : you wan na use some part of what of the time you have . um , they can . but we should just make a decision whether we feel that they want to use some substantial or some fraction of their time . you know , they wan na do it so badly that they are willing to spend uh you know the necessary and plus time . and um and y you know , if we feel that they wan na do nothing but that thing then , you know , we should point out that to the planner , that they probably want to use all the time they have . so , stretch out that visit for that . professor d : mm - hmm . grad b : wow it seems like this would be really hard to guess . i mean , on the part of the system . it seems like it i mean you 're you 're talking about rather than having the user decide this you 're supposed t we 're supposed to figure it out ? professor d : w well grad c : th - the user can always s say it , but it 's just sort of we we hand over these parameters if we make if we have a feeling that they are important . grad b : overrider professor d : yeah . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : and that we can actually infer them to a significant de degree , or we ask . professor d : and and par yeah , and part of the system design is that if it looks to be important and you ca n't figure it out , then you ask . grad c : yeah . professor d : but hopefully you do n't ask you know , a all these things all the time . grad b : yeah . professor d : or eh so , y but there 's th but definitely a back - off position to asking . grad b : yeah . right . yeah . grad c : and if no no part of the system ever comes up with the idea that this could be important , no planner is ever gon na ask for it . grad b : yeah . grad c : y so and i like the idea that , you know , sort of jerry pushed this idea from the very beginning , that it 's part of the understanding business to sort of make a good question of what 's s sort of important in this general picture , what you need t grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : if you wan na simulate it , for example , what parameters would you need for the simulation ? and , timing , uh , uh , length would definitely be part of it , `` costs `` , `` little money , some money , lots of money `` ? professor d : mm - hmm . grad c : actually , maybe uh f { comment } uh so , f yeah , ok . hmm ? grad b : you could say `` some `` in there . phd f : i must say that thi this one looks a bit strange to me . um maybe it seems like appropriate if i go to las vegas . well but i decide k kind of how much money uh i 'm willing to lose . but a i as a tourist , i 'll just paying what 's what 's more or less is required . professor d : well , no . i think there are there 're different things where you have a ch choice , grad b : yeah . professor d : for example , uh this t interacts with `` do am i do oh are you willing to take a taxi ? `` grad b : dinner . professor d : or uh , you know , if if you 're going to the opera are you gon na l look for the best seats or the peanut gallery phd f : the best seat or or right . professor d : or , you know , grad b : ok . so professor d : whatever ? s so i think there are a variety of things in which um tour - tourists really do have different styles eating . another one , grad b : yeah . professor d : you know . undergrad e : right . phd f : right , that 's true . grad c : the what what my sort of sentiment is they 're well , i i once had to write a a a a charter , a carter for a a student organization . and they had wanted me to define what the quorum is going to be . and i looked at the other ones and they always said ten percent of the student body has to be present at their general meeting otherwise it 's not a and i wrote in there `` en - enough `` people have to be there . and it was hotly debated , but people agreed with me that everybody probably has a good feeling whether it was a farce , a joke , or whether there were enough people . grad b : yeah . grad c : and if you go to turkey , you will find when people go shopping , they will say `` how much cheese do you want ? `` and they say `` ah , enough . `` and the and the this used all over the place . because the person selling the cheese knows , you know , that person has two kids and you know , a husband that dislikes cheese , so this is enough . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : and um so the middle part is always sort of the the golden way , right ? so you can s you can be really make it as cheap as possible , or you can say `` i want , er , you know , i do n't care `` grad b : money is no object . mm - hmm . grad c : money is no object , professor d : yeah . grad c : or you say `` i just want to spend enough `` . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : or the sufficient , or the the appropriate amount . grad b : yeah . grad c : but , then again , this may turn out to be insufficient for our purposes . but well , this is my first guess , grad b : i mean y yeah . grad c : in much the same way as how how d you know should the route be ? should it be the easiest route , even if it 's a b little bit longer ? grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : no steep inclinations ? go the normal way ? whatever that again means , er or do you does the person wan na rough it ? grad b : mm - hmm . i mean th so there 's a couple of different ways you can interpret these things right ? you know `` i want to go there and i do n't care if it 's really hard . `` or if you 're an extreme sport person , you know . `` i wan na go there and i insist on it being the hard way . `` professor d : right . grad b : right ? you know , so i assume we 're going for the first interpretation , undergrad e : right . grad b : right ? something like i 'll go th i mean i 'd li i dunno . it 's different from thing to professor d : no , i think he was going for the second one ar actually . grad b : yeah ? i i professor d : anyway , we 'll sort th yeah , we 'll sort that out . right . grad b : yeah . professor d : absolutely . grad c : well , this is all sort of um , top of my head . grad b : yeah . grad c : no no research behind that . um `` object information `` , `` do i do i wan na know anything about that object ? `` is either true or false . and . if i care about it being open , accessible or not , i do n't think there 's any middle ground there . um , either i wan na know where it is or not , i wan na know about it 's history or not , or , um i wan na know about what it 's good for or not . maybe one could put scales in there , too . so i wan na know a l lot about it . professor d : yeah , now ob ok , i 'm sorry , go ahead , what were you gon na say ? grad c : one could put scales in there . so i wan na know a lot about the history , just a bit . professor d : yeah , right well y i w if we w right . so `` object `` becomes `` entity `` , right ? grad c : yep , that 's true . professor d : yeah , but we do n't have to do it now . grad c : yep . that was the wrong shortcut anyhow . professor d : and we think that 's it , interestingly enough , that um , you know , th or or or something very close to it is going to be uh going to be enough . and undergrad e : still wrong . grad c : yeah . professor d : alright , so um so i think the order of things is that um , robert will clean this up a little bit , although it looks pretty good . and grad c : what , well this is the part that this is the part that needs the work . professor d : right . grad b : yeah . professor d : yeah , so right , so so , um in parallel , uh three things are going to happen . uh robert and eva and bhaskara are gon na actually build a belief - net that that , um , has cpt 's and , you know , tries to infer this from various kinds of information . and fey is going to start collecting data , and we 're gon na start thinking a about uh what constructions we want to elicit . and then w go it may iterate on uh , further data collection to elicit grad b : d do you mean do you mean eliciting particular constructions ? or do you mean like what kinds of things we want to get people talking about ? semantically speaking , eh ? professor d : well , yes . both . uh , and though for us , constructions are primarily semantic , right ? grad b : right . sure . professor d : and and so uh grad b : i mean from my point of view i 'm i 'm trying to care about the syntax , so you know professor d : well that too , but um you know if th if we in if we you know , make sure that we get them talking about temporal order . grad b : yeah . professor d : ok , that would be great and if th if they use prepositional phrases or subordinate clauses or whatever , grad b : mm - hmm . right . ok . professor d : um w you know , whatever form they use is fine . but i i think that probably we 're gon na try to look at it as you know , s what semantic constructions d do we do we want them to uh do direc you know , um , `` caused motion `` , i do n't know , something like that . uh but , eh - uh this is actually a conversation you and i have to have about your thesis fantasies , and how all this fits into that . grad b : got it . yeah . uh yeah . ok . professor d : but uh grad c : well , i will tell you the german tourist data . because i have not been able to dig out all the stuff out of the m ta thirty d v um if you grad b : is that roughly the equivalent of of what i 've seen in english or is it grad c : no , not at all . dialogues . smartkom smartkom human . wizard of oz . grad b : ok . same ok , that . got it . like what what have i got now ? i mean i have uh what what i 'm loo what i those files that you sent me are the user side of some interaction with fey ? grad c : a little bit of data , i grad b : is that what it is ? or ? grad c : with nothing . grad b : just talking into a box and not hearing anything back . professor d : no , no . grad c : yep . some data i collected in a couple weeks for training recognizers and email way back when . grad b : ok . ok . grad c : nothing to write home about . and um the see this this this uh ontology node is probably something that i will try to expand . once we have the full ontology api , what can we expect to get from the ontology ? and hopefully you can sort of also try to find out , you know , sooner or later in the course of the summer what we can expect to get from the discourse that might , you know or the grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : not the discourse , the utterance as it were , uh , professor d : mm - hmm . grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : right . grad c : in terms of uh professor d : right , but we 're not expecting keith to actually build a parser . grad b : right , right . grad c : no , no , no , no , no . professor d : ok . we are expecting johno to build a parser , grad c : uh , this is yes . grad b : by the end of the summer , too . professor d : but that 's a no . no . uh he 's g he 's hoping to do this for his masters ' thesis s by a year from now . grad c : but it 's sort of it 's grad b : right . hmm . still , pretty formidable actually . professor d : eh - absolutely . uh limited . i mean , you know , the idea is is , grad b : yeah . professor d : well , the hope is that the parser itself is , uh , pretty robust . but it 's not popular it 's only p only grad b : right , right . existence proof , you know . set up the infrastructure , professor d : right . it 's only popula grad b : yeah . professor d : right . grad b : um sometime , i have to talk to some subset of the people in this group , at least about um what sort of constructions i 'm looking for . i mean , you know obviously like just again , looking at this one uh thing , you know , i saw y things from sort of as general as argument structure constructions . oh , you know , i have to do verb phrase . i have to do uh uh unbounded dependencies , you know , which have a variety of constructions in uh uh instantiate that . on the other hand i have to have , you know , there 's particular uh , fixed expressions , or semi - fixed expressions like `` get `` plus path expression for , you know , `` how d ho how do i get there ? `` , professor d : mm - hmm . grad b : `` how do i get in ? `` , `` how do i get away ? `` professor d : right . grad b : and all that kind of stuff . um , so there 's a variety of sort of different sorts of constructions professor d : absolutely . grad b : and it you know it 's it 's sort of like anything goes . like professor d : ok , so this is i think we 're gon na mainly work on with george . ok , and hi let me f th say what i think is is so the idea is uh first of all i misspoke when i said we thought you should do the constructions . cause apparently for a linguist that means to do completely and perfectly . so what i yeah , ok , so what what i meant was `` do a first cut at `` . grad b : er that 's what yeah , yeah . professor d : ok , because uh we do wan na get them r u perfectly but i think we 're gon na have to do a first cut at a lot of them to see how they interact . grad b : of course . right , exactly . now it w we talked about this before , right . and i i me it would it would be completely out of the question to really do more than , say , like , oh i do n't know , ten , over the summer , professor d : yeah . grad b : but uh , but you know obviously we need to get sort of a general view of what things look like , so yeah . professor d : right . so the idea is going to be to do sort of like nancy did in some of the er these papers where you do enough of them so you can go from top to bottom so you can do f you know , f f uh have a complete story ov of s of some piece of dialogue . grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : and that 's gon na be much more useful than having all of the clausal constructions and nothing else , or or or something like that . grad b : yeah . sure . yeah . professor d : so that the the trick is going to be t to take this and pick a some sort of lattice of constructions , grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : so some lexical and some phrasal , and and , you know , grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : whatever you need in order to uh , be able to then , uh , by hand , you know , explain , some fraction of the utterances . grad b : mm - hmm . yeah . professor d : and so , exactly which ones will partly depend on your research interests and a bunch of other things . grad b : mm - hmm . sure . ok . but i mean in terms of the s th sort of level of uh of analysis , you know , these do n't necessarily have to be more complex than like the `` out of `` construction in the bcp paper where it 's just like , you know , half a page on each one or something . professor d : correct . oh yeah yeah . v a half a page is is what we 'd like . grad b : yeah . professor d : and if if there 's something that really requires a lot more than that then it does and we have to do it , grad b : yeah . professor d : but grad b : for the first cut , that should be fine , yeah . professor d : yeah . grad c : we could sit down and think of sort of the the ideal speaker utterances , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : and i mean two or three that follow each other , so , where we can also sort of , once we have everything up and running , show the tremendous , insane inferencing capabilities of our system . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : so , you know , as as the smartkom people have . this is sort of their standard demo dialogue , which is , you know , what the system survives and nothing but that . grad b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad c : um , we could also sor sort of have the analogen of o our sample sentences , the ideal sentences where we have complete construction coverage and , sort of , they match nicely . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : so the the `` how do i get to x ? `` , grad b : yeah . grad c : you know , that 's definitely gon na be uh , a major one . grad b : yeah . that 's about six times in this little one here , so uh , yeah . professor d : right . grad c : `` where is x ? `` might be another one which is not too complicated . grad b : yeah . mm - hmm . grad c : and um `` tell me something about x . `` grad b : yeah . grad c : and hey , that 's that 's already covering eighty percent of the system 's functionality . professor d : ye - right , but it 's not covering eighty percent of the intellectual interest . grad b : yeah . grad c : no , we can w throw in an `` out of film `` construction if you want to , but professor d : no , no , no . well the th the thing is there 's a lot that needs to be done to get this right . ok , i th we done ? grad c : i have one bit of news . professor d : good . grad c : um , the action planner guy has wrote has written a a p lengthy proposal on how he wants to do the action planning . professor d : good . grad c : and i responded to him , also rather lengthy , how he should do the action planning . and professor d : `` action planning `` meaning `` discourse modeling `` ? grad c : yes . and i tacked on a little paragraph about the fact that the whole world calls that module a dis disc dialogue manager , professor d : right . grad c : and would n't it make sense to do this here too ? professor d : right . grad c : and also rainer m malaka is going to be visiting us shortly , most likely in the beginning of june . professor d : uh - huh , i 'll be gone . grad c : yeah . he - he 's just in a conference somewhere and he is just swinging through town . professor d : sure , ok . grad c : and um m making me incapable of going to naacl , for which i had funding . but . no , no pittsburg this year . when is the uh santa barbara ? who is going to ? uh should a lot of people . that 's something i will would sort of enjoy . professor d : probably should go . that was that 's one you should probably go to . grad b : how much does it cost ? grad c : there 's grad b : i have n't planned to go . professor d : uh , probably we can uh pay for it . um a student rate should n't be very high . so , if we all decide it 's a good idea for you to go then you 'll we 'll pay for it . grad b : right . sure . undergrad e : then you can go . professor d : i mean i i do n't have a feeling one way or the other at the moment , but it probably is . ok , great . </s>
<s> what was the proposed structure of the belief net . </s> professor d : right . grad c : so , and this actually turned out to be pretty key , because having specified sort of these uh this this intermediate level um and sort of noticing that everything that happens here let 's go to our favorite endpoint one is again more or less we have um then the situation nodes contributing to the the endpoint situation node , which contributes to the endpoint and so forth . um i can now sort of draw straight lines from these to here , meaning it g of course goes where the sub - s everything that comes from situation , everything that comes from user goes with the sub - u , and whatever we specify for the so - called `` keith node `` , or the discourse , what comes from the um parser , construction parser , um will contribute to the d and the ontology to the sub - o node . and um one just s sort of has to watch which also final decision node so it does n't make sense t to figure out whether he wants to enter , view or approach an object if he never wants to go there in the first place . but this makes the design thing fairly simple . and um now all w that 's left to do then is the cpg 's , the conditional probabilities , for the likelihood of a person having enough money , actually wanting to go a place if it costs , you know this or that . and um ok . and once um bhaskara has finished his classwork that 's where we 're gon na end up doing . you get involved in that process too . and um and for now uh the the question is `` how much of these decisions do we want to build in explicitly into our data collection ? `` so um , one could sort of think of you know we could call the z see or you know , people who visit the zoo we could s call it `` visit the zoo tomorrow `` , so we have an intention of seeing something , but not now but later . professor d : right . yeah . yeah , so let 's s uh s see i th i think that from one point of view , uh , um , all these places are the same , so that d d that , um in terms of the linguistics and stuff , there may be a few different kinds of places , so i th i it seems to me that we ought to decide you know , what things are k are actually going to matter to us . and um , so the zoo , and the university and the castle , et cetera . um are all big - ish things that um you know have different parts to them , and one of them might be fine . grad c : hmm . hmm , hmm . yeah the the reason why we did it that way , as a as a reminder , is uh no person is gon na do all of them . professor d : and grad c : they 're just gon na select u um , according to their preferences . professor d : yeah , yeah . grad c : `` ah , yeah , i usually visit zoos , or i usually visit castles , or i usually `` and then you pick that one . professor d : right , no no , but but s th point is to to y to build a system that 's got everything in it that might happen you do one thing . undergrad e : they 're redundant . professor d : t to build a system that um had the most data on a relatively confined set of things , you do something else . and the speech people , for example , are gon na do better if they if things come up uh repeatedly . now , of course , if everybody says exactly the same thing then it 's not interesting . so , all i 'm saying is i th there 's there 's a kind of question of what we 're trying t to accomplish . and i think my temptation for the data gathering would be to uh , you know and each person is only gon na do it once , so you do n't have to worry about them being bored , so if if it 's one service , one luxury item , you know , one big - ish place , and so forth and so on , um then my guess is that that the data is going to be easier to handle . now of course you have this i guess possible danger that somehow there 're certain constructions that people use uh when talking about a museum that they would n't talk about with a university and stuff , um but i guess i 'm i uh m my temptation is to go for simpler . you know , less variation . but i do n't know what other people think about this in terms of grad b : so i do n't exactly understand professor d : uh grad b : like i i i guess we 're trying to limit the detail of our ontology or types of places that someone could go , right ? but who is it that has to care about this , or what component of the system ? professor d : oh , well , uh th i think there are two places where it comes up . one is uh in the th these people who are gon na take this and and try to do speech with it . grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : uh lots of pronunciations of th of the same thing are going to give you better data than l you know , a few pronunciations of lots more things . that 's one . grad b : so we would rather just ask uh have a bunch of people talk about the zoo , uh and assume that that will that the constructions that they use there will give us everything we need to know about these sort of zoo , castle , whatever type things , these bigger places . professor d : bigger y yeah thi well this is a question for grad b : and that way you get the speech data of people saying `` zoo `` over and over again or whatever too . professor d : yeah . yeah . yeah . so this is a question for you , grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : and , you know , if we if we do , and we probably will , actually try to uh build a prototype , uh probably we could get by with the prototype only handling a few of them anyway . so , um </s>
<s> what are the key features of the intermediate nodes ? </s> phd f : yeah . professor d : i w we will we will not ask you more . undergrad e : right . phd f : right . undergrad e : that 's enough . grad c : i do n't know . what is the uh the the english co uh um cognate if you want , for `` sankt nimmerlandstag `` ? grad b : keine ahnung grad c : sort of `` we 'll do it on when you say on that d day it means it 'll never happen . professor d : yeah . right . grad c : do you have an expression ? probably you sh grad b : not that i know of actually . grad c : yeah , when hell yep , we 'll do it when hell freezes over . professor d : yeah . grad c : so maybe that should be another property in there . phd f : right . professor d : yeah . yeah . undergrad e : never . grad c : ok . um , the reason why why do we go there in the first place ie uh it 's either uh for sightseeing , for meeting people , for running errands , or doing business . entertainment is a good one in there , i think . i agree . grad b : so , business is supposed to uh , be sort of it like professional type stuff , right , or something like that ? ok . um . grad c : i mean this w this is uh an old uh johno thing . he sort of had it in there . `` who is the the tour is the person ? `` so it might be a tourist , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : it might be a business man who 's using the system , who wants to sort of go to some grad b : yeah . professor d : yeah , or or both . grad b : yeah . yeah , i mean like for example my my father is about to travel to prague . he 'll be there for two weeks . he is going to uh he 's there to teach a course at the business school but he also is touring around and so he may have some mixture of these things . professor d : sure . right . grad c : he would phd f : what ab what do you have in mind in terms of um socializing ? what kind of activities ? grad c : eh , just meeting people , basically . `` i want to meet someone somewhere `` , which be puts a very heavy constraint on the `` eva `` phd f : oh grad b : yeah . grad c : you know , because then if you 're meeting somebody at the town hall , you 're not entering it usually , you 're just want to approach it . grad b : so i mean , does this capture , like , where do you put `` exchange money `` is an errand , right ? but what about uh professor d : mm - hmm grad b : so , like `` go to a movie `` is now entertainment , `` dine out `` is phd f : socializing , i guess . professor d : no , i i well , i dunno . let let well , we 'll put it somewhere , grad b : so i mean right . professor d : but but um i would say that if `` dine out `` is a special c uh if you 're doing it for that purpose then it 's entertainment . grad b : yeah . professor d : and we 'll also as y as you 'll s further along we 'll get into business about `` well , you 're you know this is going over a meal time , do you wan na stop for a meal or pick up food or something ? `` grad b : mm - hmm . professor d : and that 's different . that 's that 's sort of part of th that 's not a destination reason , that 's sort of `` en passant , `` right . grad b : right . grad c : that goes with the `` energy depletion `` function , blech . grad b : yeah . professor d : right , yeah . grad c : ok , `` endpoint `` . </s>
<s> what was said about the data collection participants ? </s> grad c : uh w do we wan na get going beyond more , which is sort of the professor d : well , ok , so let 's let 's take let 's i i think your suggestion is good , which is we 'll do a b uh a batch . ok . and , uh , fey , how long is it gon na be till you have ten subjects ? couple days ? or thr f a a week ? or i do n't i do n't have a feel for th undergrad e : um i can yeah , i mean i s i think can probably schedule ten people , uh , whenever . professor d : well , it 's it 's up to you , i mean i j i uh e we do n't have any huge time pressure . it 's just when you have t undergrad e : how long will it be ? professor d : yeah . undergrad e : um i i would say maybe two weeks . professor d : oh , ok . so let 's do this . let 's plan next monday , ok , to have a review of what we have so far . grad c : this means audio , but professor d : and huh ? grad c : no transcriptions of course , yeah . professor d : no , we wo n't have the transcriptions , but what we should be able to do and i do n't know if , fey , if you will have time to do this , but it would be great if you could , um , not transcribe it all , but pick out uh , some stuff . i mean we could lis uh just sit here and listen to it all . are you gon na have the audio on the web site ? ok . grad c : until we reach the gigabyte thing and david johnson s ki kills me . and we 're gon na put it on the web site . yeah . professor d : oh , we could get i mean , you can buy another disk for two hundred dollars , right ? i mean it 's it 's not like ok . so , we 'll take care of david johnson . grad c : no , he uh , he he has been solving all our problems or is wonderful , undergrad e : take care of him . professor d : alright . so we 'll buy a disk . but anyway , so , um , if you if you can think of a way to uh , point us to th to interesting things , sort of as you 're doing this or or something uh , make your make notes or something that that this is , you know , something worth looking at . and other than that , yeah i guess we 'll just have to uh , listen although i guess it 's only ten minutes each , right ? roughly . undergrad e : well , i guess . i 'm not sure how long it 's actually going to take . grad c : the reading task is a lot shorter . that was cut by fifty percent . and the reading , nobody 's interested in that except for the speech people . professor d : right . no , we do n't care about that at all . grad c : so . it 's actually like five minutes dialogue . professor d : i b my guess is it 's gon na be ten . grad c : ten minutes is long . professor d : people i understand , but people people you know uh undergrad e : it feels like a long time grad c : yeah . it feels like forever when you 're doing it , professor d : yeah . grad c : but then it turns out to be three minutes and forty five seconds . professor d : yeah . grad b : yeah . professor d : could be . ok . i was thinking people would , you know , hesitate and whatever . whatever it is we 'll we 'll deal with it . grad c : yeah , it 's not and it 's fun . professor d : ok , so that 'll be that 'll be um on on the web page . that 's great . um but anyway yeah , so i think it 's a good idea to start with the sort of relatively straight forward res just response system . and then if we want to uh get them to start doing uh multiple step planning with a whole bunch of things and then organize them an um tell them which things are near each other and you know , any of that stuff . uh you know , `` which things would you like to do tuesday morning ? `` grad c : yeah . professor d : so yeah i th that seems pretty straight forward . undergrad e : but were you saying that grad c : i need those back by the way . undergrad e : yeah . grad c : that 's for professor d : i 'm sorry , fey , what ? undergrad e : that w maybe one thing we should do is go through this list and sort of select things that are categories and then o offer only one member of that category ? professor d : that 's what i was suggesting for the first round , yeah . grad b : so rather than having zoo and castle . undergrad e : and then , i mean , they could be alternate versions of the same if you wanted data on different constructions . professor d : they could , but i but i uh tha eh they c yeah , but uh but undergrad e : like one person gets the version with the zoo as a choice , and the other person gets the professor d : you could , but i but i i i think in the short run , grad c : and no , th the per the person do n't get it . i mean , this is why we did it , because when we gave them just three tasks for w part - a and three tasks for part - b a professor d : right . yeah . undergrad e : well no , they could still choose . they just would n't be able to choose both zoo and say , touring the castle . grad c : exactly . this is limiting the choices , but yeah . right . ok , sorry . but um i i think this approach will very well work , but the person was able to look at it and say `` ok , this is what i would actually do . `` undergrad e : yeah . grad c : yeah . undergrad e : he was vicious . grad c : ok , we got ta we got ta disallow uh traveling to zoos and uh castles at the same time , sort of undergrad e : i mean there they are significantly different , but . grad c : but no , they 're i mean they 're sort of this is where tour becomes you know tourists maybe a bit different undergrad e : yeah , i guess so . grad c : and , um , these are just places where you you enter um , much like here . professor d : yeah . grad c : but we can uh professor d : yeah , in fact if y if y if you use the right verb for each in common , like at you know , `` attend a theater , symphony or opera `` is is a group , and `` tour the university , castle or zoo `` , grad c : mm - hmm yeah . professor d : all of these d do have this kind of `` tour `` um aspect about the way you would go to them . and uh , the movie theater is probably also uh e is a `` attend `` et cetera . grad c : attend , yeah . professor d : so it may turn out to be not so many different kinds of things , grad c : hmm , mm - hmm . professor d : and then , what one would expect is that that the sentence types would uh their responses would tend to be grouped according to the kind of activity , you would expect . grad b : mm - hmm . phd f : but i mean i it seem that um there is a difference between going to see something , and things like `` exchange money `` or `` dine out `` professor d : oh , absolutely . yeah . phd f : uh @ @ function , yeah . grad c : yeah , this is where yeah th the function stuff is definitely different and the getting information or g stuff yeah . ok . but this is open . so since people gon na still pick something , we we 're not gon na get any significant amount of redundancy . and for reasons , we do n't want it , really , in that sense . and um we would be ultimately more interested in getting all the possible ways of people asking , oh , for different things with or with a computer . and so if you can think of any other sort of high level tasks a tourist may do just always just m mail them to us and we 'll sneak them into the collection . we 're not gon na do much statistical stuff with it . professor d : we do n't have enough . grad c : no . but it seems like since we since we are getting towards uh subject uh fifty subjects and if we can keep it up um to a uh sort of five four - ish per week rate , we may even reach the one hundred before fey t takes off to chicago . undergrad e : that means that one hundred people have to be interested . grad b : good luck . undergrad e : yeah . professor d : well , um , these are all f people off campus s from campus so far , undergrad e : yeah . professor d : right ? undergrad e : yeah . professor d : so we yeah we do n't know how many we can get next door at the uh shelter for example . uh for ten bucks , probably quite a few . grad b : yeah . that 's right . professor d : yeah . so , alright , so let 's go let 's go back then , to the the chart with all the decisions and stuff , and see how we 're doing . do do people think that , you know this is is gon na um cover what we need , or should we be thinking about more ? grad c : okay , in terms of decision nodes ? i mean , go - there is is a yes or no . right ? grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : i 'm also interested in th in this `` property `` uh line here , so if you look at sorry , look at that um , timing was um i have these three . do we need a final differentiation there ? now , later on the same tour , sometimes on the next tour . grad b : what 's this idea of `` next tour `` ? i mean grad c : it 's sort of next day , so you 're doing something now and you have planned to do these three four things , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : and you can do something immediately , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : you could sort of tag it on to that tour grad b : or ok . grad c : or you can say this is something i would do s i wan na do sometime l in my life , basically . grad b : ok . ok . so so this tour is sort of just like th the idea of current s round of of touristness or whatever , professor d : right . yeah . yeah , probably between stops back at the hotel . grad b : ok . got it . </s>
<s> what is the routine for data collection ? </s> undergrad e : m yes . grad c : let me summarize in two sentences , mainly for eva 's benefit , who probably has not heard about the data collection , at all . or have you heard about it ? grad a : not that much you did n't . grad c : no . ok . we were gon na put this in front of people . they give us some information on themselves . then then they will read uh a task where lots of german words are sort of thrown in between . and um and they have to read isolated proper names and these change professor d : s i do n't see a release grad c : no , this is not the release form . this is the speaker information form . professor d : got it . ok , fine . ok . grad c : the release form is over there in that box . professor d : alright , fair enough . grad c : and um and then they gon na have to f um um choose from one of these tasks , which are listed here . they they pick a couple , say three uh uh six as a matter of fact . six different things they sort of think they would do if they were in heidelberg or traveling someplace and um and they have a map . like this . very sketchy , simplified map . and they can take notes on that map . and then they call this computer system that works perfectly , and understands everything . and um grad b : this is a fictional system obviously , grad c : the comp yeah , the computer system sits right in front of you , that 's fey . undergrad e : i 've i understand everything . professor d : and she does know everything . undergrad e : yes i do . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee this morning . i 've received no apologies for absence . can i ask members if there are any declarations of interest , please ? no . okay , thank you . item 2 this morning is our scrutiny session on estyn 's annual report 2018-19 . i 'm very pleased to welcome meilyr rowlands , her majesty 's chief inspector , estyn ; jassa scott , strategic director at estyn ; and claire morgan , strategic director at estyn . thank you all for attending . we 're looking forward to hearing what you 've got to say . we 'll go straight into questions from suzy davies . suzy davies am : bore da . good morning , everybody . thank you for the papers upfront , in which you say that the most striking feature of the education system , looking forward , of course is the curriculum and the change that that 's bringing . how can we be sure that , during this period of change , standards do n't slip ? and also , from the point of view of scrutiny , will we be back in a situation where we 're being told , 'you ca n't compare one set of results against the previous year 's results , because of the nature of the change ' ? meilyr rowlands : bore da , bawb . thank you for the invitation to come here . i think that 's a good question . i think any kind of major educational reform has got risks attached to it , particularly if those changes were made too quickly . i think this process of reform has been going on in the background for a few years now , so i think there is a track record of standards and provision not slipping . we 've seen small incremental improvements . so , overall , i think we can be fairly confident that standards wo n't slip during this period of preparation . suzy davies am : can i just ask : is that based on your evidence around primary schools , where the sort of ethos that we 've seen in the curriculum has been already articulated through the foundation phase ? meilyr rowlands : the track record i 'm talking about is across the board , so it 's very difficult to think of anything that 's actually got worse over the last three or four years , so it 's difficult to say that standards of provision is slipping . it might not be improving as quickly as we would like , but the purpose of major curriculum and , more generally , educational reform is to make sure that we do get a more substantial sort of improvement . i think we should congratulate the profession for the work they 've been doing . a large number of schools and teachers and leaders have been part of preparing the new curriculum and all the associated work , as well as doing the day job . i think their commitment and their engagement with curriculum reform , and engagement with wider education reform , is to be congratulated . so , i think going forward , we must make sure that that is continued ; that this process that 's called co-construction—engaging with the profession , making sure that they 're behind all the changes—continues . i think that 's what 's going to make sure that we do n't see any slippage . suzy davies am : okay , and on that point of comparing year on year , we will be able to make those comparisons legitimately then ? meilyr rowlands : yes , certainly , in terms of our inspection outcomes and our inspection work , yes . suzy davies am : okay . that 's great , thank you . can i just ask you then about the difference in preparedness between primary and secondary schools , which i 've just mentioned previously , and also what your views are on the impact of funding for schools on that as well ? because we 're in a situation where a number of primary schools have got surplus funds , sometimes that 's because of end of year additional funds just being magicked up , but there is a serious worry that so many secondary schools are in deficit and that , overall , secondary schools are in deficit . is there a correlation between those two positions , that secondary schools may be less ready for this than primary schools ? meilyr rowlands : i think it 's probably true to say that secondary schools have a greater challenge than primary schools generally in terms of preparedness for the new curriculum . i think that 's why we welcomed the phasing in of the new curriculum . with any sort of education reform , you 've got that danger of people wanting to see change as soon as possible on the one hand , and on the other hand you need time to pilot things , to make sure that people have the right professional learning and make sure that there 's opportunity for evaluation and thinking and so forth . so , we 've got to get that balance right . suzy davies am : sorry , that could be difficult to do if a school does n't have money to create that space , could n't it ? meilyr rowlands : yes . you raised two issues , i think . one , about the difference between primary and secondary : i think what i 'm saying there is i think the fact that the new curriculum is going to be brought in for all the years in primary , but it 's going to be phased in year by year for secondary is a recognition of that difference . in terms of funding , probably everyone in this room , and certainly me included , would like to see more money for the education system—any educationalist would like to see that . but , you know , that is a decision for local and central government to decide how much they can afford . i think there is an argument for saying that the funding has become more challenging for schools over time . suzy davies am : can i ask , just to keep it on track , are you finding that that 's having an impact on secondary schools particularly—their ability to make space to get their heads around the curriculum ? meilyr rowlands : i do n't think you can make that straightforward correlation . but if you do look at surpluses and reserves , they have been more or less constant for primary schools over a long period of time , but they have declined for secondary schools . so , i think there probably is an argument for saying that we need to look at the funding of secondary schools in particular because , overall , they 're in deficit now . so , i think there is an argument for looking at that . the other thing that 's worth saying about funding is that even a small decrease in real terms can be disproportionately time consuming to manage . so , you know , if you have a large school and you have to maybe make one member of staff redundant , it can have a real big effect on the morale in the school . but also the time it takes for the headteacher and the senior staff to make those decisions can take their eye off the educational ball because they 're looking at these financial and staffing issues . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . siân might develop that a little bit further on . the final question from me is : there 's a general concern about the number of teachers that we have in the system at the moment , particularly at secondary level and in particular subjects as well . how do you think we can improve that ? what impact is it likely to have on the ability of secondary schools to really get a grip on this ? meilyr rowlands : obviously , the most important resource for the education system is the teachers . so , it is a concern that recruitment is getting more and more difficult and that targets for initial teacher training are not being hit . and we 're not seeing them hit , if i remember correctly , even in primary , let alone secondary . so , there is a challenge , and i think we 've got to look at this in the round . we 've got to make sure that we have both a long-term strategy and a shorter term strategy for this . so , long term , we 've got to make sure that education is an attractive option for young people and more mature people to want to go into . so , that is partly to do with workload and staff well-being . i think there 's a general acceptance now that that needs to be higher up on the agenda , that people need to take that seriously , and there 's work going on regarding the workload issue . suzy davies am : i suppose what i 'm coming to , and i will finish with this , chair , is , we 're asking our existing workforce to undertake a fair bit of continuous professional development—let 's call it that—in order to get ready for this curriculum when they 've barely got time for lunch as it is . do you think that 's going to have an impact on the ability of secondary schools to get to grips with this , albeit that there 'll be a phasing in ? meilyr rowlands : yes . i think it will have an effect , but i think it 'll have a positive effect . i think the new curriculum , one of the things about the new curriculum is that it re-professionalises the profession . it gives back agency and ownership to teachers . i think it 's really important . and one of the reasons why teaching maybe has n't been that attractive a profession is that teachers in the past have just been delivering a set curriculum , and now they 've got a much more creative part in deciding for themselves how to teach something and what to teach . so , i think that is a very important part of attracting intelligent people into the profession . there are short-term things we need to do , of course , as well . i think we need to have a much more varied set of routes into teaching , so i welcome some of the part-time open university courses , for example . so , there are lots of ways—we were talking about maybe converting people from primary into secondary , particularly in welsh-medium , where there 's a shortage . so , all those kinds of varied routes , i think , into teaching , are important as well . suzy davies am : degree apprenticeships , potentially . meilyr rowlands : yes , i think it 's well worth exploring that . yes . suzy davies am : lovely . thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay . siân gwenllian now has some questions on secondary schools causing concern . siân . sian gwenllian am : yes . just before going on to that , just to pick up on that last point that you made about the shortage of teachers and losing teachers during the first year of their training . has estyn done any themed work on that particular issue , or do you intend to do anything on that ? also , looking at the financial incentives and how they compare with the situation in england , for example ; do we need , perhaps , to think about financial incentives , not just for specific subjects , but for going to schools where there are particular issues , perhaps ? meilyr rowlands : well , yes , there are currently discussions ongoing between us and the government about working in those early years for teachers . it 's possible that we will be undertaking work in the near future on that . i know that professor mick waters is looking at this currently , and we 've had the discussion with him . and i think we would welcome the opportunity to look at this particular period . now , we are , of course , looking at initial teacher training , but we have n't looked at the first couple of years for many a year . sian gwenllian am : right , thank you very much . and for your information , i 've commissioned a piece of work on that particular issue , and that work will be published in due course . so , i hope to have a discussion with you about that . meilyr rowlands : thank you very much . yes . sian gwenllian am : in terms of the secondary schools , that ’ s where the problem lies , isn ’ t it , rather than the primary sector . how much of a concern is it to you that children ’ s chances of going to a secondary school that is good or better appear to be 50:50 , and that , indeed , over 10 per cent of secondary schools are judged to be failing and 12 per cent are under estyn review ? how much of a concern is that to you ? meilyr rowlands : well , it is of concern to us , of course . i hope that we will have an opportunity to talk about the positive aspects of the education system in wales , because there are a number of good things we can report also . the primary sector , the special sector , post-16—there are many sectors that are doing well , and i think a story that 's particularly positive this year is that we have seen pupil referral units improving . we have seen examples of excellent practice in that sector for the first time in many a year , and we 've also seen excellent practice in independent special schools , which is also a sector— . because these are two sectors where there are very , very vulnerable children in attendance . so , i think that 's very encouraging . but , you 're right , of course , the biggest concern for the system , i would say , is secondary schools , and that is an issue of leadership , and also of the quality of the teaching and learning . those are the recommendations that we make most often in our inspection reports . so , i believe that there is a need to find a long-term solution , as i mentioned previously , and also a short-term solution to this problem . in the long term , to improve the quality of teaching and learning—well , that ’ s the main aim of the new curriculum . so , i am confident that that strategy is the right strategy . it will take time , as we mentioned previously ; it will take longer in secondary schools , and that 's for a number of reasons , and i have discussed the challenges that are additional for secondary schools in previous annual reports . so , there are many reasons why secondary schools find it more difficult , possibly , than primary schools . the children themselves are older and they have greater challenges . life is more complicated for them , possibly . it ’ s more difficult to engage with the parents of older children than younger children , and that ’ s an important factor . that ’ s one of the reasons why i believe it ’ s important that we do have community schools that ensure that the parents are part of the school ’ s life and take an interest in the education of their children . we also know that qualifications take a very prominent role in secondary schools ’ mindsets , and , in some cases , perhaps excessively so . so , we need to ensure that those qualifications are reformed as a result of the reform of the curriculum , and , of course , qualifications wales is carrying out that work currently . and also , we need to change the measures that we use to measure the schools ’ successes . now , there is work ongoing on that as well . but there are all kinds of variations and differences between the primary and secondary sectors . in primary schools , for example , the greatest and most obvious difference , i would say , is that you ’ ve got one teacher who looks after a child for a whole year , and that teacher can identify the needs of the pupil very well over a period of time , getting to know the child and , possibly , the family very well . it ’ s much more complicated for secondary school to do that ; there have to be systems put in place for that . so , there are many long-term things that we need to respond to . but in the short term , what is important is that those schools that cause concern receive much more support , and that is why i am glad and do welcome what 's being piloted currently , which is a system of supporting these schools , the multi-agency approach , that is . so , that is something that we have been calling for for quite a long period of time and piloted ourselves a few years ago . so , i 'm very glad that we are doing this in secondary schools throughout wales . i believe there are about 12 schools that are in that pilot scheme . sian gwenllian am : you said previously that it 's a cause of concern for you that these schools that are failing or underachieving are not identified early enough . are there signs that that 's improving ? meilyr rowlands : well , one of the things that 's very positive about this pilot scheme is that it 's not just the schools that are officially causing concern that are a part of the pilot scheme , that is , the schools that we have identified , through inspections , as needing to be put in a statutory category . so , there are schools involved in the pilot scheme that the authorities and the consortia have identified themselves as schools that are at risk of causing concern . i believe that it 's fair to say that we have not reached a point yet where we have a system of agreed criteria in relation to identifying these schools yet . i think that there has been initial work that has been commissioned or that is about to arrive in relation to that , and the types of measures you would expect us to take account of would be dissatisfaction from parents , staff leaving , a change in leadership . we use surveys with the children , for instance , and that gives you quite a good idea of whether a school is possibly facing difficulties . so , there 's not one single criteria alone that will tell you , 'this is a school that is at risk of causing concern ' , but taken together , having a set of criteria that everyone has agreed would be a good way of monitoring schools , i believe . sian gwenllian am : okay . well , we 'll be coming on to that middle tier later on , and perhaps that 's where the problem lies , namely that if there is n't an agreed system from consortia and yourselves , perhaps that 's where the focus needs to be . meilyr rowlands : i would say that it 's not the identification of the schools that is the greatest problem . the greatest problem is ensuring that there is support for them and that the support is multi-agency support , where all the agencies that support these schools are working together . sian gwenllian am : well , how long does it take , therefore , for a school to move from an improvement category , in terms of special measures , to be escalated then ? because one sees sometimes that there 's an excellent school , and within five years ' time , it 's in the red . so , there 's a great deal of variance in that . meilyr rowlands : well , that would be something quite unusual—to move from excellent to red . sian gwenllian am : yes , well , gradually , perhaps . meilyr rowlands : yes . perhaps claire can respond to this . claire morgan : on average , secondary schools that are in need of special measures take just over two years , on average . some are shorter ; some are quite a considerable amount longer . it 's a little less for schools that go into significant improvement . with primary schools , of course , it 's much shorter because the issues are far less complex ; it 's easier to bring about improvements in teaching . when you 've got large numbers of staff , you 've got large secondary schools , it takes time to actually bring about those improvements , but it is a long time , just over two years , when you think that some pupils , maybe in key stage 4 for the two years— . certainly , we want to see schools coming out of category much quicker , and this is where the multi-agency approach certainly is a positive step . all partners involved in supporting the school are involved in these improvement boards . they focus on bringing about improvement in the areas of the school that are weakest , and it is the responsibility of everybody involved—that is : ourselves , the regions , local authorities , the schools themselves and their governing bodies—to look at how they can best support the school to bring about that improvement . so , it 's getting an agreement on what the issues are , and then planning the support so that we avoid duplication , but that we support the school in the areas they need more support . and we hope that this then will accelerate the improvement of the schools that find themselves in category . but , as meilyr already said , there are some schools involved in that particular pilot that are at danger of causing serious concern . so , the pilot is trying out those two different approaches as well . sian gwenllian am : okay , thank you . and just finally from me , for the time being at least , the financial situation ; we 've spoken about that already this morning . if you could— . if funding was injected into the system tomorrow , say , what would you spend it on ? what aspects would benefit from that additional funding ? meilyr rowlands : were you asking about something specific there ? sian gwenllian am : in the schools themselves , if you were a school leader , what would you— meilyr rowlands : oh , if i were a school leader . sian gwenllian am : yes . how would you use any additional funding that would flow into the school ? meilyr rowlands : it 's difficult to make that decision , because every school is different . it is important , of course , that leaders do have the power and the ability to make those decisions themselves . but , certainly , in the short term , the type of thing i would have thought would be to prepare for the new curriculum . that means freeing up teachers to think about what the new curriculum means to them . the schools that have been a part of developing the curriculum have been in a fortunate position in that they 've had plenty of time to think about this . so , it 's now time—and this was the chief message of my annual report this year—for every school in wales to start to think . because i think that the new curriculum is truly an opportunity to take a forward step in terms of how we teach and learn within schools . but that means that time is needed for schools to think this through and , in that thinking , to contact the community , to talk to their children as well , to see what the community in its broader sense would like to see being in the new curriculum , because it 's up to every school . although the new curriculum sets a framework , it is up to each and every school to decide what they 're going to teach , and what they 're teaching in order to prepare their young people for this new world that we have in the twenty-first century . therefore , to give you a somewhat superficial answer , i would be setting time aside for the training of teachers . jassa scott : can i just add one thing there ? i think what we 've seen over the years recently is that local authorities , to some extent , have safeguarded the funding that goes to the schools , but the effect of that is that we 've seen less funding going into some of the local authority services ; for example , those services that support well-being , that promote attendance , and that perhaps support behaviour and assistance for schools . so , i think that all of those factors contribute to how schools can support and assist their pupils , and to improve themselves . so , i think that side of things is important as well—in the school or in the local authority , if funding is available , it should be allocated to all of those things so that those services can also support the children to succeed . sian gwenllian am : thank you . lynne neagle am : just before we move on to the middle tier , if i can just ask about the quality of teaching ? there 's been a consistent message from estyn that that is the weakest part of the system in wales . the government recognises that and has invested a very significant amount of money in that area , yet it 's still an issue again in your annual report . you have n't said whether it 's getting better or going in the right direction . what is your assessment of whether we are seeing the improvements we need to see in the quality of teaching ? meilyr rowlands : i think , in nearly all the elements of our framework , the picture is fairly similar . so , in terms of quality of teaching , we have seen gradual but quite small-scale improvements in primary . so , you can feel that that is going in the right direction . in secondary , it 's more or less level ; we have n't seen it getting particularly better or particularly worse . one of the things that 's really important to realise is that the curriculum is about the quality of teaching . it is about the teaching and learning ; those are two sides of the same coin , if you like . what 's important is the learning experience that our pupils get in school . from the perspective of the pupil , it 's the learning ; from the perspective of the teacher , it 's the teaching . they are two sides to the same coin . i think there 's no doubt and i think there 's general agreement that , in order to have a step change in the quality of teaching and learning— . i think it was einstein who said that if you keep on doing the same thing , you 'll get the same result . so , you 're going to have to change something , and what 's changing is the curriculum . i think there 's general consensus that this is the right approach to improve the quality of teaching . and that 's exactly what all schools need to do now : to think how does this new curriculum affect them in their particular school , in their particular circumstances , in the context of their particular children . how can they use this opportunity now to improve the teaching and learning in their school ? sian gwenllian am : it does cause one concern , because if the teaching and learning standards just stay the same in the secondary sector , and we know that 12 per cent of secondary schools are under estyn review and 11 per cent of them are in special measures , we 're talking about half of the schools almost , and no improvement in the teaching quality in general . so , there is a major cohort of children captured in that situation , and then there 's a new curriculum that comes in . i see the opportunities , but these schools that are doing well are going to go , 'wow , up there ' , but schools are there in the bottom layer and one is genuinely concerned about those children in those schools . is n't that where the focus should be and any additional funding that 's allocated ? you talked about releasing teachers for training , but perhaps it 's in those particular schools that we need to focus . meilyr rowlands : i do agree that the best schools will welcome the opportunities and that their standards will improve even more . but then , with regard to the other schools , in a way , there are two very broad categories , which are those that need only a little support just to help them to improve— . and i believe that the new curriculum and the general support that 's going to be surrounding that will be the solution for those schools . it 's going to be an opportunity for the quality of the teaching and the learning to improve . but you 're right to say that there is another smaller cohort that has a much greater need for support , and they 're going to find coping with the new curriculum difficult , because they 'll also have many other problems . so , i do agree— . and you 're not talking about a huge number of schools—some 200 secondary schools is what we have in wales , so that percentage is relatively small , the number is relatively small—but they need much greater support . that is why this pilot scheme of the multi-agency approach of supporting those schools is important . i do believe that you 're right to say that there are funding implications to supporting those schools . i do n't think it 's enormous , but certainly there 's a certain amount of funding that is needed to offer those schools that support . lynne neagle am : thank you . janet . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair . the minister recently told the committee that a number of recent estyn inspections of local authorities ' education services have been disappointing . do you agree ? that , of course , is based on the inspections carried out under the current cycle . meilyr rowlands : yes , indeed . i think we 've done nine inspections of local authorities ' education services so far this cycle . we 've got another two this academic year . we 'll have done half of them by the end of the academic year . we 'll then evaluate how things have gone . but of those nine we 've put three into category—we 've identified them as causing concern—and they 're pembrokeshire , powys and wrexham . so , we do have concerns about those authorities . so , we 'll be supporting those authorities , moving forward . but i think a common factor in those inspections was secondary schools . so , we 've talking quite a bit about secondary schools this morning , and i think that , again , is a factor in those local authorities . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . you say that the proportion of secondary schools causing concern is a challenge for several local authorities and for the system as a whole . which local authorities are these—you 've probably named them all—and have these been inspected yet under the current cycle ? meilyr rowlands : i think you 're taking about three secondary schools in a category in pembrokeshire , wrexham and torfaen . so , we 've inspected pembrokeshire and wrexham already , but we have n't inspected torfaen yet . and two schools in a category in powys , newport and gwynedd . and we 've inspected powys and newport , but we have n't inspected gwynedd yet . so , in answer to your question : we 've inspected most of those , but not all of them . janet finch-saunders am : okay . what is your latest assessment of how well the regional consortia are supporting and driving school improvement ? does this vary across the different regions ? meilyr rowlands : it certainly does vary , but i 'll ask jassa to go into more detail . jassa scott : we have n't directly inspected the regional consortia since—i think 2017 was the last time we did some direct monitoring with them . but i think , over the last three years , we do feel that they 've improved their knowledge . they 're still relatively new in the big scheme of things . so , they did take a little while to embed , and i think that came across when we did the work that we did with them back in 2017 . but , more recently , they 've improved their knowledge of individual schools ' strengths and areas for improvement , and they are using this knowledge better to support and challenge schools , and particularly schools causing concern . but obviously , as we 've been talking about this morning , there 's still work to do . i think they 've prioritised well the work that schools are doing around literacy and numeracy , but their support for schools to develop digital competence has been a bit weaker . even though we 've had the framework as an early part of the curriculum developments there , we have n't seen quite the focus that we 've seen on other areas . i think for schools causing concern , what we found—and we do look at their work through our local authority inspection , so we are getting some first-hand evidence of their impact through that—they 're not always focused , in those schools causing concern , on improving teaching and learning , so actually getting in and looking and working with teachers and with staff to actually make improvements there . i think , generally , their support for secondary schools has had less impact across the consortia than it has for primary schools , and i think sometimes that 's because they 're struggling to recruit appropriate specialists , to support with secondary , or perhaps they do n't have the depth of strong practice that we talked about earlier within their region . so , they 're having to work a bit harder to find effective practice , to share practice and to get the secondary expertise and knowledge to support those schools . we will be , over the next year , looking specifically at the work of consortia to support curriculum reform work . well , we think we will be—we haven ’ t had our remit letter yet . but that 's one of the areas we 've discussed , about doing some specific work on over the next year to look in a bit more depth . janet finch-saunders am : so , what is the cycle of inspections for regional consortia , and how robust are those inspections ? what areas do you cover ? jassa scott : well , regional consortia are n't actually statutory entities at the moment , and we do n't have specific inspection powers relating to regional consortia . what we have are powers to inspect school improvement . so , on each of our local authority inspections , there will be , usually , an area that we 're looking at that relates to school improvement , and that would involve us looking at the work of the consortia that the local authority has commissioned . what we 've agreed with welsh government is that , over the next few years , we will take a thematic approach . so , the first area that we 've said is that we 'll look specifically at how each of them is supporting curriculum reform , and report on that . so , that will report specifically on the different ones , but it would n't be the same as doing an inspection of their work at this time . janet finch-saunders am : should they be on a statutory footing ? jassa scott : well , i think that 's something to be discussed over the next few years . there 's , obviously , local government legislation that has been debated recently , which has the potential to create corporate joint committees , and school improvement was one of the areas that is being considered there . so , there may be an opportunity , if that 's created , to think how we then adapt inspection to look specifically at that . so , i think there is an opportunity . i think we do get a handle on their work through the local authority and , ultimately , it 's looking at what that consortia brings to that local authority and to the schools and the pupils in that area that 's the important bit , i think , ultimately , to see the impact there . so , we are looking at them in that way , and then taking that thematic approach , but we 'll keep reviewing it over the next couple of years . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . and what are estyn 's views on the latest position regarding regional working in south-west and mid wales ? would it be preferable for school improvement advisers to be based in the consortium , education through regional work , rather than each local authority employing their own , as is the case at present ? meilyr rowlands : if i can just go back to the last question as well , what we did in order to inspect regions was we paused our local authority inspection cycle back in 2014 , i think , for about three years . so , then , we spent time looking at regions , basically , because we did n't have the resource to do both at the same time . so , we 're in negotiation with welsh government currently , so that , going forward , we can look at local authorities and regions at the same time . if regions become statutory entities , that would be in legislation , and then you could have legislation that gives us directly the powers to inspect them , which we do n't currently have . so , we have to , effectively , wait for welsh government to ask us to do that work . but , as jassa said , currently , what we intend to do in the short is to do some thematic work on that . in terms of erw , they were the region that , at the end of the last cycle of regional inspections , we were still monitoring . we are concerned about their progress , particularly in the light of recent developments . so , for example , the chair of the joint committee has resigned , the managing director remains a temporary appointment and there are no clear plans for a permanent leadership . some of the leadership team have left—the capacity has gone down—and various staff that were appointed last summer have already left . the budget has not been agreed and certain key meetings—executive board and joint committee meetings—have been cancelled . so , we are particularly worried about erw , and , because of that , we will be going in to visit them in april—next month—and we 'll be visiting all of the authorities to make sure that they do have a plan for an appropriate school improvement service going forward . but , jassa , probably , can say a little bit more about our plans there . jassa scott : yes , i think you asked a specific question about , you know , which is better . i think our view has been that , generally , the local authorities are too small to deliver that whole range of school improvement services , particularly given the national reform agenda at the moment . we felt last summer , when we went to erw , that they 'd managed to reach the best possible model , given the constraint they 've placed , collectively , on themselves—that they want to deliver aspects of school improvement locally , through the local authorities , and have some central capacity . so , we felt that , given that they wanted to do some locally and some centrally , enough thought had been put into that structure last summer and that it could be workable . there were key aspects such as support for secondary schools causing concern and there was some capacity centrally that could support areas such as powys . unfortunately , as meilyr has described , some of those aspects have since been disbanded or those staff who were on secondment have gone back , so i think it is a key risk , particularly for some of those authorities you 've talked about that are causing concern , such as powys or pembrokeshire—that they have n't necessarily got that local capacity to support their schools causing concern . so , you 've got some concerns within school capacity and you 've got concerns about local authority capacity , and what you do n't have there now is that collective capacity centrally that might support them . so , that 's why we 're going to go and do a slightly more detailed link visit to try to understand how they are mitigating the risks that we see are arising as a result of some of those things that have happened recently . our understanding is that there 's a joint committee meeting of erw on 19 march , so , hopefully , after that point , we 'll have a little bit more information about how they 're planning to manage that collective set of services going forward—it 's a little bit of an unknown at the moment . meilyr rowlands : you were asking , 'would it be better for every authority to have their own team ? ' but , before regions were invented , if you like , we were saying consistently that they tended to be too small . what happened in practice was that authorities did come together voluntarily to have joint advisory services . so , you had cynnal in the north west , you had the education and school improvement service , you had gwent—so , they naturally did come together in groups , maybe a little bit smaller than the current regions , but they , of their own accord , produced something not very dissimilar to a region . lynne neagle am : siân , did you have a supplementary ? sian gwenllian am : yes , just on erw . does the fact that there is a dispute on the highest level feed down to the school and to the children ? are the children in south-west and mid wales affected by this ? are standards decreasing in that part of wales ? meilyr rowlands : well , it 's difficult to say directly , but we have inspected nine authorities and two of those are in that area , so , the lack of support at that level , as jassa was saying , may be the reason why those authorities are suffering difficulties . jassa scott : and it is clear that many people across that area are expending energy and time discussing these issues . any reorganisation does take energy out of the system , so it is clear that that time is n't then being spent , perhaps , on investment in improving schools and supporting staff in schools . so , as meilyr says , it 's not clear , but a lot of energy is being expended in that particular discussion that is ongoing . lynne neagle am : janet . janet finch-saunders am : what disadvantages could there be from neath port talbot 's intention to withdraw from regional working via erw ? and i 've got to be honest , up in the north , i know that there are concerns about regional consortia , and when local authorities are under pressure financially , it questions , sometimes , the value of regional consortia . so , what disadvantages could there be from neath port talbot 's intention to withdraw from regional working via erw ? meilyr rowlands : i think we 've talked in general terms and we feel that local authorities probably are too small on their own . in general terms , you ca n't say that any particular authority could n't , maybe , put things together in such a way that it 's effective . also , it has a knock-on effect on the rest of the consortium , if one withdraws . i do n't know whether , jassa , you 've got anything to add to the general points we 've made . jassa scott : i mean , i think , what you 've alluded to there , it has the potential to be a destabilising factor across the whole of the national model that we 've got for supporting school improvement at a time where welsh government are kind of relying heavily on that consortium model to help support curriculum reform and to drive professional learning and be the conduit for lots of the aspects of reform that we 've talked about . so , i think that potential risk of any destabilising across the system is a disadvantage generally . i think— . clearly , we 've talked about that capacity at a local level . there is that aspect of what that means in terms of the joint capacity across the other authorities there . and i think it 's just what i 've already talked about in terms of being a distraction at a crucial time for support where schools need to feel that they 're confident in where they need to go for support . i should say that we 're planning , as part of that visit that we do in april , to survey schools in that region about the support that they 're getting , be that from their authority or from the central teams in erw . that 's something we did at the time when we did the inspections previously , and we thought it would be helpful to get some first-hand views of any disadvantages or impact that they might be feeling , really . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . and then , finally , for me : what involvement has estyn had with the strategic education delivery group chaired by professor dylan jones and what are your expectations for how it will improve the work of the middle tier ? meilyr rowlands : we 've been members of that group right from the beginning . i personally am on it and colleagues are on it as well , and i 'm a member of the sub-group that does some of the background work for that group as well , and estyn has given several presentations to that group . i think the group is important . i remember commenting the first time it met that it was welcoming . the rather obvious thing is that you get all the strategic educational organisations together in one room , but it had never been done before , as far as i know . so , it was a really important step forward for that to happen . i 'm a very firm believer in making those relationships , building those relationships , so that people understand what each of us contributes to the whole of the education system . we need to have that forum to be able to make sure that we 're clear about what each of our roles is . janet finch-saunders am : okay , thanks . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've got some questions now from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . morning , all . in your report you talked about in early settings where skills development is less effective , that children begin to feel at a very early age that they ca n't do certain things . i do n't know whether that is anecdotal evidence or is that specific outcome-based evidence—whatever , it 's quite worrying . but what do you think the long-term effect on a child 's development has in that respect ? claire morgan : it 's probably worth saying that skill development is a strength in about three quarters of our schools—primary schools and early years settings . but in a minority of schools and settings , as you 've picked up , children are often introduced to things too early . so , they 're introduced to phonics , they 're introduced to learning to read , when they 're not at that developmental stage . and really , long term , it means the children lose confidence , because if they 're introduced to these things too early they do n't succeed , they tend to need additional support , and it can give them a negative impression , it can give them negative thoughts about their ability . so , we need to address that , and really it 's about— dawn bowden am : sorry , what sort of age range are we talking about here ? claire morgan : these would be children from three to five . so , this is very , very early on . dawn bowden am : and is there something , then , in that—and i do n't think there 's much we can do about that , but it may be in terms of the way that the schools or the early learning settings address this—you will have children at a very young age that have almost a year 's difference in their age group , so they 're born just before 1 september or just after 1 september ? so , that 's a huge gap , is n't it , at that point in their development ? is that not being addressed in a way that those children are being taught and approached at that age ? right , okay . that 's fine . in terms of reading and literacy skills , we still remain quite low in the programme for international student assessment ratings for reading , and i know there is a particular concern about the impact on boys in that regard . what do you think are the most pressing priorities that face them around reading and literacy ? meilyr rowlands : i think literacy has been , and still is , and still needs to be a top priority . i mean , literacy clearly is something that underpins the rest of education , so it really does need to be a top priority . i think it has been a high priority , but we need to continue prioritising it . we 've seen some improvements over the years . for example , we 've given a lot of attention to writing over the years , and making sure that children get the opportunity to write in an extended way , not just short sentences , but having the opportunity to have extended writing , and there 's some evidence that that now is beginning to have an effect . but almost ironically , the same sort of issue is true of reading . so , it 's not just reading small little snippets—we need to encourage children to have a love for reading and read whole books . so , i gave a little bit of attention to that in the annual report—that that needs attention . i think the other thing i would emphasise is that this is not just for the foundation phase , it 's not just for very young children—it 's really important at key stage 2 and in secondary school . one of the things we have been worried about , and i think there was some reflection of this in pisa , is that there are strengths in reading in wales . so , pisa , for example , said that children in wales are very good at comparing lots of little snippets , but what they 're saying , and they 're saying this themselves , is that the love of books is decreasing , and the number of children who read regularly whole books . so , i think there is something there for teachers to set and model a good example , to show their own interest in reading , to encourage children to read themselves . dawn bowden am : it 's probably a wider societal problem as well , is n't it ? i 'm thinking about gaming , electronic gaming , computers . meilyr rowlands : absolutely . i think there is some sort of link with the digital world , and the way people read—the actual technique of reading , is evolving . but i think reading is so important , and developing a complex vocabulary is so important in being able to communicate , in order to get a good job , to have enjoyment out of life—all of those things are so important . we ourselves are going to give this quite a lot of priority in future , so we 're doing a major piece of work on language acquisition , which will cover some of this next year . every year one of our thematics is the major bit of work we do , and we try to support that with a conference . so , that will be the focus that we give to our work next year—it is on language acquisition . dawn bowden am : okay , thank you for that . just one other supplementary on that , i guess , is whether you have a good idea of how many young people are coming out of school at 16—so , those that are not staying on to do a-levels—and are coming out with an inability to read or white . do we know what the figure is for that ? meilyr rowlands : i ca n't tell you that off the top of my head , but i 'm sure that there will be evidence . that 's not something we inspect as such . dawn bowden am : no , no , but there should be evidence around that . okay . jassa scott : there has been a shift in that there 's been continued emphasis in post-16 education and training around literacy and picking that up . for example , anyone who 's studying in a further education college will have to do resits . there 's an aim to try and get everyone to a basic level . in apprenticeships they 'll use essential skills and so on to try and get that basic level of literacy as well , so there is an emphasis . i think one of the worrying indications , maybe , that post-16 sectors find is that sometimes even when learners are coming out with a basic qualification in a gcse , potentially in english or a literature subject , they do n't necessarily have a really good foundation of some of the basic skills as well . so , there is a lot of work to do in this area . dawn bowden am : okay , all right . could i just move you on— ? sorry— meilyr rowlands : the only thing i would add to that is , i guess , it 's quite small , the number of people who do n't have basic reading . i think one of the things we need to emphasise is that learning reading is something you do throughout your life , and what we need to do is to develop , in particular , pupils ' higher level reading skills . the fact that they can just read is n't the end of the story ; they need to be developing those higher level reading skills and continuing to widen the range of things they read , and be able to develop their vocabulary at a higher level . dawn bowden am : and their comprehension , i guess . meilyr rowlands : sorry ? dawn bowden am : and their comprehension as well . meilyr rowlands : absolutely , yes—those higher level skills of comprehension and inference and those sorts of things . dawn bowden am : sure , okay . can i just move you on , then , to numeracy and whether you can tell us if you 're satisfied with the progress in numeracy , because i think we were doing better on the pisa results in maths in wales than we did previously ? so , what are your thoughts on that ? meilyr rowlands : i think there is a fairly clear good news story here . pisa shows improvements and a lot of that can be attributed , i think , to the new gcse mathematics numeracy . i think there 's much less predictability in that work ; you ca n't approach it in a formulaic way , either the pupils or the teachers in terms of teaching it . there 's much more problem solving . it 's about applying what you 've learnt in the core mathematics lessons to new situations in subjects across the curriculum . i think that that gcse numeracy has built on the work that 's been done lower down on the national numeracy framework , which has the same philosophy of applying that mathematics knowledge in a problem-solving situation . that has been a really good news story , really . dawn bowden am : that 's something to be positive about , anyway . that 's good . my final question , chair , is : in your view , to what extent is wales on track to meet the target of 500 points in each of the domains in the 2020-1 cycle for pisa ? meilyr rowlands : i think that that target is somewhat arbitrary , but assuming that we continue on this journey that we are on—the current change programme of the new curriculum and so forth—i think we would expect to see those improvements we 've seen in science and in mathematics to continue . we 've talked about reading and i think we will be giving more attention to reading . i think the education system more generally , hopefully , will give more attention to reading . so , i would hope to see improvements there as well . the only other thing i would add is that there is some research that indicates or suggests that the effect of schools is greater on mathematics and science than on reading , and the reason for that is you do n't do a lot mathematics or science in the home . but the attitude towards reading is very much dependent on family and community factors , more so , maybe , than mathematics and science . so , i think that 's another reason why i think a community-school approach is really important . you need to get everybody on board ; it 's not just what the teacher does in the classroom—it 's important that the whole family and the community thinks that reading is important . dawn bowden am : just on numeracy , it was interesting because one of the schools in my constituency have actually contacted my office and a number of other organisations across the constituency to ask us how we use maths in our work . so , they 're obviously trying to relate that now to everyday life and working , which i thought was quite good . meilyr rowlands : that 's good . lynne neagle am : we 've got some questions now around progress of specific groups of pupils . if i can start and ask you how concerning is it that the gap between pupils eligible for free school meals and other pupils has not narrowed in the last 10 years , especially given the £475 million pupil deprivation grant investment . meilyr rowlands : yes . i think secondary schools and the issue of poverty were the two things i 've noted in the annual report . so , i think it is a concern to us . i think it is worth also remembering that compared to other countries , for example , in pisa , we do compare quite well in terms of equity . there 's also an argument that maybe poverty and austerity have increased , so that we 're in a way running to keep still . and i think also , as i was suggesting about the reading , poverty really is a social phenomenon . schools ca n't solve that on their own . so , there are a lot of caveats to be made around the fact that that poverty gap has n't closed , but that 's not to say that schools ca n't do something about it , and i 've suggested in the annual report a sort of a two-pronged approach . one is the new curriculum . i think there is evidence in the international research that teaching and learning , better teaching and learning , helps disadvantaged poor pupils disproportionately . so , they gain more from it that their peers . so , i think improving teaching and learning , and we discussed that earlier this morning about how the new curriculum is really all about improving the quality of teaching and learning in the classroom . so , that 's one approach , and then the other approach , which i 've also mentioned earlier , is having a community-focused approach to schools . the schools that do more successfully tackle the poverty gap are the schools that take that kind of approach . it means helping the pupils . it means helping their families . it 's about making pupil well-being really high on the agenda . it 's very difficult for children to do well in school if they 've got all kinds of things happening in their background . so , it 's important that schools can maybe signpost those families to other services that can support them and help them . so , it 's quite a complex— . it 's challenging for schools to go down this route , and i think the more help we can give schools to take that approach , the better . but the schools that do do it do benefit a lot from it . they have better engagement from parents , from the families , and that then reflects back on the work of the children . jassa scott : and we 've just published a collection of good practice about how schools support vulnerable learners , and we 'll be teasing out the aspects around community-focused schools a lot more in a report that we 'll publish in the next couple of months . so , we 've kind of drilled down and looked at what some schools are doing in that area in a bit more detail . lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy , on this . suzy davies am : yes , just quickly . obviously , i think we 've all been to schools where the pdg is actually used to engage parents more for exactly the reasons you say . but i just wanted to interrogate the deprivation gap a little bit , because , of course , even though , as you say , there 's perhaps more equity in wales , one of the reasons for that is because our children from better-off backgrounds do less well , and considerably less well than their peers in the other parts of the united kingdom . so , whereas their attainment gaps are pretty dreadful , that 's one of the reasons—that our better-off children are n't doing as well as perhaps they might do . is that a concern as well ? we do n't want this rush to the middle , do we ? meilyr rowlands : i think it 's essential that all groups of pupils do as well as they possibly can , absolutely . so , it 's not quite the same issue , but we 've talked about the importance of making sure that more able and talented children do well . suzy davies am : they 're not the same . meilyr rowlands : they 're not the same , clearly , because you have more able and talented children from poor backgrounds . differentiation is a challenge for schools , but it 's absolutely essential that all groups of children do as well as they possibly can . so , in things like pisa , in terms of reading , for example , we ca n't just say it 's that group that needs to improve—all the groups need to improve . and i think that 's why something like the new curriculum gives schools more scope to tailor their teaching and learning to the particular groups that they have , whether they ’ re more able , whether they 're advantaged or whether they 're disadvantaged . suzy davies am : okay , thanks . thank you , lynne . lynne neagle am : okay . pupils ' confidence in their school 's ability to help them with their emotional and mental well-being is much less at secondary school and that 's been a consistent theme as well from your reports . why do you think that is ? jassa scott : yes , you 're right . as we mentioned earlier , we do pupil surveys before all our inspections , and across a number of those indicators , like , 'how well does the school listen ? do adults in school care about me ? how well does the school deal with bullying ? '—quite a lot those ones around well-being do tail off . nine out of 10 pupils at key stage 2 have that confidence , down to half at key stage 4 , as you say . and i think there are a number of factors that we think contribute to that : i think one of the factors is that pupils face , sometimes , more challenges as they get older in those teenage years , but they also become more reflective and perhaps more discerning . and i think what we find in secondary schools is perhaps secondary school pupils notice sometimes the differences between their everyday life that they experience in school and perhaps the messages that they 're getting about well-being in terms of their lessons , in terms of assemblies and in terms of school policies and so on . so , they are probably more discerning in noticing those differences and maybe there are some of those differences also there in primary school , but the pupils do n't notice . i think we 've already touched upon things like the differences in the way that , at primary school , you would tend to have a go-to adult , which is your teacher . the best secondary schools find ways to make sure that pupils do feel that level of support and feel there are trusted people , but it 's more of a challenge to make sure that that happens , because of the way they 're operating . we still have some concerns about personal and social education and the health and well-being support , which we 've made a recommendation about in the past in some of our thematic reports , but also recently in some of our secondary school inspection reports . and i think i already touched upon the fact that sometimes , when the budget is tight , it can be some of those—they 're not peripheral in their importance , but they 're not the teacher in the classroom : well-being support assistants and so on and family liaison workers—staff in the school who perhaps really support that pastoral care that the school as a whole can provide—it may be that those are the roles that are less prevalent at times of less funding . so , i think there are some great members of staff doing a really good job , but perhaps they 're not those members of staff who can support teachers and support pupils in creating that kind of caring environment . maybe there a fewer of them around . so , i think there 's not an obvious answer and part of it is that they do become more discerning and perhaps more vocal in those responses generally , as they get older . so , you might have a truer reflection of opinions than perhaps— . and that might explain some of the difference with primary , where , generally , they 're quite positive about everything across most of the schools that we ask . lynne neagle am : so , it 's not that secondary schools—because you 've said that in a previous inspection report—are just not as good at prioritising mental health and well-being . jassa scott : i think there 's an element that it 's more of a challenge for a secondary school to provide an effective set of support from that whole-staff awareness of some of the challenges . and one of the pieces of work we 've done recently is around adverse childhood experiences , and we have found that primary schools have taken that and embraced it . once you 've trained your staff , then they 've got that knowledge . they 're the ones who are working day to day with the schools . secondary schools have n't always taken a whole-school approach to that . they might have trained a set of staff . so , maybe not every member of staff has the same level of understanding , but also those staff are n't spending the same amount of time with pupils . so , in terms of getting to know pupils , picking up on signs that they may be struggling , or that there might be concerns—it 's much more of a challenge . you 've got to work a lot harder as a secondary school to make sure that staff have that knowledge and that you 've got the tracking systems that can put those different bits of information together to actually mean that you can target support where it 's needed . lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy . suzy davies am : i 'm just thinking again about specific groups of pupils . obviously , we 've had one case in north wales , in an independent school , where there were serious concerns . what 's that done to your desire to monitor and check what 's going on in these independent schools ? are they regulated sufficiently ? jassa scott : i 'll pick up on that as well . just to explain how we work with independent schools , initially , to give the context . so , there are different kinds of independent schools . so , some have boarding provision , and where they have boarding provision , care inspectorate wales would look at the boarding side of it , we 'd look at the educational side of it . there are others where they may have a linked children 's home , which can be another room in the same house , or it can be a number of miles away , and similarly there ciw would look at the residential aspects of the care and we 'd look at the school . so , i think , there 's a focus in the independent school standards regulations , which is a minimum that all schools have to meet to maintain a registration . there is a focus in that on how that school looks after and cares for its pupils , and there are focuses on that element of boarding provision where relevant , and the national minimum standards that the care inspectorate look at that have aspects around supporting well-being as well . what we do find in our inspections is that , overall , we generally find that pupils ' well-being develops , they make good progress , and that care , support and guidance that schools give is good . what we mean by that , really , practically , is that they are developing their resilience and their self-esteem . in special schools , this might mean particularly that those pupils learn to manage their anxieties better so that they improve their behaviour , which may be one of the reasons why they 're in that specialist setting . in mainstream independent schools , what we find is that people develop their tenacity , their curiosity for learning—their resilience in that way . but there are shortcomings sometimes . for example , there was one school where we found that they were n't making appropriate referrals to child and adolescent mental health services . so , these schools do operate independently by their nature , and their awareness , perhaps , of some of the guidance and support that is out there—sometimes , maybe , there can be more to be done , and i think we 've talked to welsh government about that . suzy davies am : what 's estyn 's role in that—to bring that level of awareness to those schools ? jassa scott : i think we do through our inspection guidance , and the independent school standards do refer to welsh government guidance—it 's something like 'keeping learners safe ' , which is a really key document , which supports safeguarding and caring across schools . that 's regularly discussed and talked about and referred to with those schools . so , i think the other area is that sometimes we do n't have the intelligence about what— . so , for example , if there 's been a safeguarding referral from a school , we do n't necessarily always get that information , which means that when we do go to inspect , we may not have the full picture to help us tailor our inspection activity . so , that 's something we 've raised— lynne neagle am : [ inaudible . ] —be brief and brief in answers . suzy davies am : al right , okay . do you mind if i move on to the next question ? lynne neagle am : we 're going to have to skip those , i 'm afraid , and talk to the last set of questions , just because of the time pressures . hefin . hefin david am : i 'd like to ask in welsh , please . what role , if any , did estyn have in the organisation for economic co-operation and development 's latest review of progress in school improvement when they visited wales in late 2019 ? meilyr rowlands : well , we were interviewed . therefore , the three of us had an interview with the oecd officials and we offered evidence to them . and i think that , when the report is published , you will see that the oecd does draw on our broader evidence and will be quoting our reports—the annual report and some of our thematic reports . that is the part that we played in that work . hefin david am : thanks . how significant a role do you believe the national evaluation and improvement resource will play in raising school standards ? meilyr rowlands : i think that it 's very important . it 's claire who has been specifically tasked with that , so i 'll ask claire to speak about it . claire morgan : i think working together with the practitioners , the regions and representatives from local authorities is a great opportunity to develop a national approach , because we know across wales there 's some excellent practice , but we know there are schools that struggle to bring about improvement . so , this national resource has the potential to provide schools with detailed guidance on how they can approach not only self-evaluation , but , more importantly , how they can bring about that improvement . so , it will be a resource that develops over time . it 's starting—we 're piloting currently with around 40 schools . half of those have been involved in developing the tools and approaches right from the start , and 22 new schools have come on board this year . but we anticipate that there will be lots of tools and approaches within that resource that schools can use to improve the quality of self-evaluation throughout the school , primaries , secondaries , prus and special schools . but it will focus on establishing a culture within the school that focuses on improvement , that establishes a reflective culture where all staff are involved in development . so , we 're hoping that this tool—it 's still currently in development , but we hope that that will support schools really well . hefin david am : so , it 's an evolving piece of work . claire morgan : yes , it is . hefin david am : okay . and , with regard to comparison of performance , does the lack of comparative attainment data raise difficulties when you 're inspecting and drawing conclusions and standards in schools ? meilyr rowlands : not really , no . i think there was a bit of a myth that a lot of this performance data was just for estyn , but actually it never has been . when we inspect , we look at a whole range of aspects of the work . we look at standards , we look at teaching and learning in the classroom , we look at well-being , we look at care support and guidance , we look at leadership , we look at all of these things , and we look at it based on first-hand evidence—what we actually see in the classroom . so , we 're quite happy to continue to inspect schools , and we in fact support having less emphasis on data because , although data is useful , and we hope that schools will continue to analyse their data and use that data to help them self-improve and self-evaluate , we do n't actually need it and it has actually created a bit of a high-stakes culture . so , i think stepping back from that culture is a good idea . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you very much . we 've come to the end of our time , so can i thank you all for your attendance ? as usual , you 'll receive a transcript to check for accuracy following the meeting . but thank you very much again for coming in this morning . meilyr rowlands : diolch yn fawr—thank you . </s>
<s> summarize the difficulties carrying out the curriculum reform faced by secondary school . </s> suzy davies am : okay . that 's great , thank you . can i just ask you then about the difference in preparedness between primary and secondary schools , which i 've just mentioned previously , and also what your views are on the impact of funding for schools on that as well ? because we 're in a situation where a number of primary schools have got surplus funds , sometimes that 's because of end of year additional funds just being magicked up , but there is a serious worry that so many secondary schools are in deficit and that , overall , secondary schools are in deficit . is there a correlation between those two positions , that secondary schools may be less ready for this than primary schools ? meilyr rowlands : i think it 's probably true to say that secondary schools have a greater challenge than primary schools generally in terms of preparedness for the new curriculum . i think that 's why we welcomed the phasing in of the new curriculum . with any sort of education reform , you 've got that danger of people wanting to see change as soon as possible on the one hand , and on the other hand you need time to pilot things , to make sure that people have the right professional learning and make sure that there 's opportunity for evaluation and thinking and so forth . so , we 've got to get that balance right . suzy davies am : sorry , that could be difficult to do if a school does n't have money to create that space , could n't it ? meilyr rowlands : yes . you raised two issues , i think . one , about the difference between primary and secondary : i think what i 'm saying there is i think the fact that the new curriculum is going to be brought in for all the years in primary , but it 's going to be phased in year by year for secondary is a recognition of that difference . in terms of funding , probably everyone in this room , and certainly me included , would like to see more money for the education system—any educationalist would like to see that . but , you know , that is a decision for local and central government to decide how much they can afford . i think there is an argument for saying that the funding has become more challenging for schools over time . suzy davies am : can i ask , just to keep it on track , are you finding that that 's having an impact on secondary schools particularly—their ability to make space to get their heads around the curriculum ? meilyr rowlands : i do n't think you can make that straightforward correlation . but if you do look at surpluses and reserves , they have been more or less constant for primary schools over a long period of time , but they have declined for secondary schools . so , i think there probably is an argument for saying that we need to look at the funding of secondary schools in particular because , overall , they 're in deficit now . so , i think there is an argument for looking at that . the other thing that 's worth saying about funding is that even a small decrease in real terms can be disproportionately time consuming to manage . so , you know , if you have a large school and you have to maybe make one member of staff redundant , it can have a real big effect on the morale in the school . but also the time it takes for the headteacher and the senior staff to make those decisions can take their eye off the educational ball because they 're looking at these financial and staffing issues . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . siân might develop that a little bit further on . the final question from me is : there 's a general concern about the number of teachers that we have in the system at the moment , particularly at secondary level and in particular subjects as well . how do you think we can improve that ? what impact is it likely to have on the ability of secondary schools to really get a grip on this ? meilyr rowlands : obviously , the most important resource for the education system is the teachers . so , it is a concern that recruitment is getting more and more difficult and that targets for initial teacher training are not being hit . and we 're not seeing them hit , if i remember correctly , even in primary , let alone secondary . so , there is a challenge , and i think we 've got to look at this in the round . we 've got to make sure that we have both a long-term strategy and a shorter term strategy for this . so , long term , we 've got to make sure that education is an attractive option for young people and more mature people to want to go into . so , that is partly to do with workload and staff well-being . i think there 's a general acceptance now that that needs to be higher up on the agenda , that people need to take that seriously , and there 's work going on regarding the workload issue . suzy davies am : i suppose what i 'm coming to , and i will finish with this , chair , is , we 're asking our existing workforce to undertake a fair bit of continuous professional development—let 's call it that—in order to get ready for this curriculum when they 've barely got time for lunch as it is . do you think that 's going to have an impact on the ability of secondary schools to get to grips with this , albeit that there 'll be a phasing in ? meilyr rowlands : yes . i think it will have an effect , but i think it 'll have a positive effect . i think the new curriculum , one of the things about the new curriculum is that it re-professionalises the profession . it gives back agency and ownership to teachers . i think it 's really important . and one of the reasons why teaching maybe has n't been that attractive a profession is that teachers in the past have just been delivering a set curriculum , and now they 've got a much more creative part in deciding for themselves how to teach something and what to teach . so , i think that is a very important part of attracting intelligent people into the profession . there are short-term things we need to do , of course , as well . i think we need to have a much more varied set of routes into teaching , so i welcome some of the part-time open university courses , for example . so , there are lots of ways—we were talking about maybe converting people from primary into secondary , particularly in welsh-medium , where there 's a shortage . so , all those kinds of varied routes , i think , into teaching , are important as well . suzy davies am : degree apprenticeships , potentially . meilyr rowlands : yes , i think it 's well worth exploring that . yes . suzy davies am : lovely . thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay . siân gwenllian now has some questions on secondary schools causing concern . siân . sian gwenllian am : yes . just before going on to that , just to pick up on that last point that you made about the shortage of teachers and losing teachers during the first year of their training . has estyn done any themed work on that particular issue , or do you intend to do anything on that ? also , looking at the financial incentives and how they compare with the situation in england , for example ; do we need , perhaps , to think about financial incentives , not just for specific subjects , but for going to schools where there are particular issues , perhaps ? meilyr rowlands : well , yes , there are currently discussions ongoing between us and the government about working in those early years for teachers . it 's possible that we will be undertaking work in the near future on that . i know that professor mick waters is looking at this currently , and we 've had the discussion with him . and i think we would welcome the opportunity to look at this particular period . now , we are , of course , looking at initial teacher training , but we have n't looked at the first couple of years for many a year . sian gwenllian am : right , thank you very much . and for your information , i 've commissioned a piece of work on that particular issue , and that work will be published in due course . so , i hope to have a discussion with you about that . meilyr rowlands : thank you very much . yes . sian gwenllian am : in terms of the secondary schools , that ’ s where the problem lies , isn ’ t it , rather than the primary sector . how much of a concern is it to you that children ’ s chances of going to a secondary school that is good or better appear to be 50:50 , and that , indeed , over 10 per cent of secondary schools are judged to be failing and 12 per cent are under estyn review ? how much of a concern is that to you ? meilyr rowlands : well , it is of concern to us , of course . i hope that we will have an opportunity to talk about the positive aspects of the education system in wales , because there are a number of good things we can report also . the primary sector , the special sector , post-16—there are many sectors that are doing well , and i think a story that 's particularly positive this year is that we have seen pupil referral units improving . we have seen examples of excellent practice in that sector for the first time in many a year , and we 've also seen excellent practice in independent special schools , which is also a sector— . because these are two sectors where there are very , very vulnerable children in attendance . so , i think that 's very encouraging . but , you 're right , of course , the biggest concern for the system , i would say , is secondary schools , and that is an issue of leadership , and also of the quality of the teaching and learning . those are the recommendations that we make most often in our inspection reports . so , i believe that there is a need to find a long-term solution , as i mentioned previously , and also a short-term solution to this problem . in the long term , to improve the quality of teaching and learning—well , that ’ s the main aim of the new curriculum . so , i am confident that that strategy is the right strategy . it will take time , as we mentioned previously ; it will take longer in secondary schools , and that 's for a number of reasons , and i have discussed the challenges that are additional for secondary schools in previous annual reports . so , there are many reasons why secondary schools find it more difficult , possibly , than primary schools . the children themselves are older and they have greater challenges . life is more complicated for them , possibly . it ’ s more difficult to engage with the parents of older children than younger children , and that ’ s an important factor . that ’ s one of the reasons why i believe it ’ s important that we do have community schools that ensure that the parents are part of the school ’ s life and take an interest in the education of their children . we also know that qualifications take a very prominent role in secondary schools ’ mindsets , and , in some cases , perhaps excessively so . so , we need to ensure that those qualifications are reformed as a result of the reform of the curriculum , and , of course , qualifications wales is carrying out that work currently . and also , we need to change the measures that we use to measure the schools ’ successes . now , there is work ongoing on that as well . but there are all kinds of variations and differences between the primary and secondary sectors . in primary schools , for example , the greatest and most obvious difference , i would say , is that you ’ ve got one teacher who looks after a child for a whole year , and that teacher can identify the needs of the pupil very well over a period of time , getting to know the child and , possibly , the family very well . it ’ s much more complicated for secondary school to do that ; there have to be systems put in place for that . so , there are many long-term things that we need to respond to . but in the short term , what is important is that those schools that cause concern receive much more support , and that is why i am glad and do welcome what 's being piloted currently , which is a system of supporting these schools , the multi-agency approach , that is . so , that is something that we have been calling for for quite a long period of time and piloted ourselves a few years ago . so , i 'm very glad that we are doing this in secondary schools throughout wales . i believe there are about 12 schools that are in that pilot scheme . sian gwenllian am : you said previously that it 's a cause of concern for you that these schools that are failing or underachieving are not identified early enough . are there signs that that 's improving ? meilyr rowlands : well , one of the things that 's very positive about this pilot scheme is that it 's not just the schools that are officially causing concern that are a part of the pilot scheme , that is , the schools that we have identified , through inspections , as needing to be put in a statutory category . so , there are schools involved in the pilot scheme that the authorities and the consortia have identified themselves as schools that are at risk of causing concern . i believe that it 's fair to say that we have not reached a point yet where we have a system of agreed criteria in relation to identifying these schools yet . i think that there has been initial work that has been commissioned or that is about to arrive in relation to that , and the types of measures you would expect us to take account of would be dissatisfaction from parents , staff leaving , a change in leadership . we use surveys with the children , for instance , and that gives you quite a good idea of whether a school is possibly facing difficulties . so , there 's not one single criteria alone that will tell you , 'this is a school that is at risk of causing concern ' , but taken together , having a set of criteria that everyone has agreed would be a good way of monitoring schools , i believe . sian gwenllian am : okay . well , we 'll be coming on to that middle tier later on , and perhaps that 's where the problem lies , namely that if there is n't an agreed system from consortia and yourselves , perhaps that 's where the focus needs to be . meilyr rowlands : i would say that it 's not the identification of the schools that is the greatest problem . the greatest problem is ensuring that there is support for them and that the support is multi-agency support , where all the agencies that support these schools are working together . sian gwenllian am : well , how long does it take , therefore , for a school to move from an improvement category , in terms of special measures , to be escalated then ? because one sees sometimes that there 's an excellent school , and within five years ' time , it 's in the red . so , there 's a great deal of variance in that . meilyr rowlands : well , that would be something quite unusual—to move from excellent to red . sian gwenllian am : yes , well , gradually , perhaps . meilyr rowlands : yes . perhaps claire can respond to this . claire morgan : on average , secondary schools that are in need of special measures take just over two years , on average . some are shorter ; some are quite a considerable amount longer . it 's a little less for schools that go into significant improvement . with primary schools , of course , it 's much shorter because the issues are far less complex ; it 's easier to bring about improvements in teaching . when you 've got large numbers of staff , you 've got large secondary schools , it takes time to actually bring about those improvements , but it is a long time , just over two years , when you think that some pupils , maybe in key stage 4 for the two years— . certainly , we want to see schools coming out of category much quicker , and this is where the multi-agency approach certainly is a positive step . all partners involved in supporting the school are involved in these improvement boards . they focus on bringing about improvement in the areas of the school that are weakest , and it is the responsibility of everybody involved—that is : ourselves , the regions , local authorities , the schools themselves and their governing bodies—to look at how they can best support the school to bring about that improvement . so , it 's getting an agreement on what the issues are , and then planning the support so that we avoid duplication , but that we support the school in the areas they need more support . and we hope that this then will accelerate the improvement of the schools that find themselves in category . but , as meilyr already said , there are some schools involved in that particular pilot that are at danger of causing serious concern . so , the pilot is trying out those two different approaches as well . sian gwenllian am : okay , thank you . and just finally from me , for the time being at least , the financial situation ; we 've spoken about that already this morning . if you could— . if funding was injected into the system tomorrow , say , what would you spend it on ? what aspects would benefit from that additional funding ? meilyr rowlands : were you asking about something specific there ? sian gwenllian am : in the schools themselves , if you were a school leader , what would you— meilyr rowlands : oh , if i were a school leader . sian gwenllian am : yes . how would you use any additional funding that would flow into the school ? meilyr rowlands : it 's difficult to make that decision , because every school is different . it is important , of course , that leaders do have the power and the ability to make those decisions themselves . but , certainly , in the short term , the type of thing i would have thought would be to prepare for the new curriculum . that means freeing up teachers to think about what the new curriculum means to them . the schools that have been a part of developing the curriculum have been in a fortunate position in that they 've had plenty of time to think about this . so , it 's now time—and this was the chief message of my annual report this year—for every school in wales to start to think . because i think that the new curriculum is truly an opportunity to take a forward step in terms of how we teach and learn within schools . but that means that time is needed for schools to think this through and , in that thinking , to contact the community , to talk to their children as well , to see what the community in its broader sense would like to see being in the new curriculum , because it 's up to every school . although the new curriculum sets a framework , it is up to each and every school to decide what they 're going to teach , and what they 're teaching in order to prepare their young people for this new world that we have in the twenty-first century . therefore , to give you a somewhat superficial answer , i would be setting time aside for the training of teachers . jassa scott : can i just add one thing there ? i think what we 've seen over the years recently is that local authorities , to some extent , have safeguarded the funding that goes to the schools , but the effect of that is that we 've seen less funding going into some of the local authority services ; for example , those services that support well-being , that promote attendance , and that perhaps support behaviour and assistance for schools . so , i think that all of those factors contribute to how schools can support and assist their pupils , and to improve themselves . so , i think that side of things is important as well—in the school or in the local authority , if funding is available , it should be allocated to all of those things so that those services can also support the children to succeed . sian gwenllian am : thank you . lynne neagle am : just before we move on to the middle tier , if i can just ask about the quality of teaching ? there 's been a consistent message from estyn that that is the weakest part of the system in wales . the government recognises that and has invested a very significant amount of money in that area , yet it 's still an issue again in your annual report . you have n't said whether it 's getting better or going in the right direction . what is your assessment of whether we are seeing the improvements we need to see in the quality of teaching ? meilyr rowlands : i think , in nearly all the elements of our framework , the picture is fairly similar . so , in terms of quality of teaching , we have seen gradual but quite small-scale improvements in primary . so , you can feel that that is going in the right direction . in secondary , it 's more or less level ; we have n't seen it getting particularly better or particularly worse . one of the things that 's really important to realise is that the curriculum is about the quality of teaching . it is about the teaching and learning ; those are two sides of the same coin , if you like . what 's important is the learning experience that our pupils get in school . from the perspective of the pupil , it 's the learning ; from the perspective of the teacher , it 's the teaching . they are two sides to the same coin . i think there 's no doubt and i think there 's general agreement that , in order to have a step change in the quality of teaching and learning— . i think it was einstein who said that if you keep on doing the same thing , you 'll get the same result . so , you 're going to have to change something , and what 's changing is the curriculum . i think there 's general consensus that this is the right approach to improve the quality of teaching . and that 's exactly what all schools need to do now : to think how does this new curriculum affect them in their particular school , in their particular circumstances , in the context of their particular children . how can they use this opportunity now to improve the teaching and learning in their school ? sian gwenllian am : it does cause one concern , because if the teaching and learning standards just stay the same in the secondary sector , and we know that 12 per cent of secondary schools are under estyn review and 11 per cent of them are in special measures , we 're talking about half of the schools almost , and no improvement in the teaching quality in general . so , there is a major cohort of children captured in that situation , and then there 's a new curriculum that comes in . i see the opportunities , but these schools that are doing well are going to go , 'wow , up there ' , but schools are there in the bottom layer and one is genuinely concerned about those children in those schools . is n't that where the focus should be and any additional funding that 's allocated ? you talked about releasing teachers for training , but perhaps it 's in those particular schools that we need to focus . meilyr rowlands : i do agree that the best schools will welcome the opportunities and that their standards will improve even more . but then , with regard to the other schools , in a way , there are two very broad categories , which are those that need only a little support just to help them to improve— . and i believe that the new curriculum and the general support that 's going to be surrounding that will be the solution for those schools . it 's going to be an opportunity for the quality of the teaching and the learning to improve . but you 're right to say that there is another smaller cohort that has a much greater need for support , and they 're going to find coping with the new curriculum difficult , because they 'll also have many other problems . so , i do agree— . and you 're not talking about a huge number of schools—some 200 secondary schools is what we have in wales , so that percentage is relatively small , the number is relatively small—but they need much greater support . that is why this pilot scheme of the multi-agency approach of supporting those schools is important . i do believe that you 're right to say that there are funding implications to supporting those schools . i do n't think it 's enormous , but certainly there 's a certain amount of funding that is needed to offer those schools that support . </s>
<s> what did meilyr rowlands think of the shortage of teachers ? </s> meilyr rowlands : obviously , the most important resource for the education system is the teachers . so , it is a concern that recruitment is getting more and more difficult and that targets for initial teacher training are not being hit . and we 're not seeing them hit , if i remember correctly , even in primary , let alone secondary . so , there is a challenge , and i think we 've got to look at this in the round . we 've got to make sure that we have both a long-term strategy and a shorter term strategy for this . so , long term , we 've got to make sure that education is an attractive option for young people and more mature people to want to go into . so , that is partly to do with workload and staff well-being . i think there 's a general acceptance now that that needs to be higher up on the agenda , that people need to take that seriously , and there 's work going on regarding the workload issue . suzy davies am : i suppose what i 'm coming to , and i will finish with this , chair , is , we 're asking our existing workforce to undertake a fair bit of continuous professional development—let 's call it that—in order to get ready for this curriculum when they 've barely got time for lunch as it is . do you think that 's going to have an impact on the ability of secondary schools to get to grips with this , albeit that there 'll be a phasing in ? meilyr rowlands : yes . i think it will have an effect , but i think it 'll have a positive effect . i think the new curriculum , one of the things about the new curriculum is that it re-professionalises the profession . it gives back agency and ownership to teachers . i think it 's really important . and one of the reasons why teaching maybe has n't been that attractive a profession is that teachers in the past have just been delivering a set curriculum , and now they 've got a much more creative part in deciding for themselves how to teach something and what to teach . so , i think that is a very important part of attracting intelligent people into the profession . there are short-term things we need to do , of course , as well . i think we need to have a much more varied set of routes into teaching , so i welcome some of the part-time open university courses , for example . so , there are lots of ways—we were talking about maybe converting people from primary into secondary , particularly in welsh-medium , where there 's a shortage . so , all those kinds of varied routes , i think , into teaching , are important as well . suzy davies am : degree apprenticeships , potentially . meilyr rowlands : yes , i think it 's well worth exploring that . yes . suzy davies am : lovely . thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : okay . siân gwenllian now has some questions on secondary schools causing concern . siân . sian gwenllian am : yes . just before going on to that , just to pick up on that last point that you made about the shortage of teachers and losing teachers during the first year of their training . has estyn done any themed work on that particular issue , or do you intend to do anything on that ? also , looking at the financial incentives and how they compare with the situation in england , for example ; do we need , perhaps , to think about financial incentives , not just for specific subjects , but for going to schools where there are particular issues , perhaps ? </s>
<s> what did meilyr rowlands say about the additional challenge for secondary schools ? </s>  </s>
<s> what was sian gwenllian 's concern about the schools in the bottom layer ? </s>  </s>
<s> what did jassa scott talk about the work of regional consortia ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : okay . what is your latest assessment of how well the regional consortia are supporting and driving school improvement ? does this vary across the different regions ? meilyr rowlands : it certainly does vary , but i 'll ask jassa to go into more detail . </s>
<s> what did jassa scott and janet finch-saunders agree on the priority of the inspections ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : so , what is the cycle of inspections for regional consortia , and how robust are those inspections ? what areas do you cover ? jassa scott : well , regional consortia are n't actually statutory entities at the moment , and we do n't have specific inspection powers relating to regional consortia . what we have are powers to inspect school improvement . so , on each of our local authority inspections , there will be , usually , an area that we 're looking at that relates to school improvement , and that would involve us looking at the work of the consortia that the local authority has commissioned . what we 've agreed with welsh government is that , over the next few years , we will take a thematic approach . so , the first area that we 've said is that we 'll look specifically at how each of them is supporting curriculum reform , and report on that . so , that will report specifically on the different ones , but it would n't be the same as doing an inspection of their work at this time . janet finch-saunders am : should they be on a statutory footing ? </s>
<s> what did claire morgan talk about the skill development in early year settings ? </s> dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . morning , all . in your report you talked about in early settings where skills development is less effective , that children begin to feel at a very early age that they ca n't do certain things . i do n't know whether that is anecdotal evidence or is that specific outcome-based evidence—whatever , it 's quite worrying . but what do you think the long-term effect on a child 's development has in that respect ? claire morgan : it 's probably worth saying that skill development is a strength in about three quarters of our schools—primary schools and early years settings . but in a minority of schools and settings , as you 've picked up , children are often introduced to things too early . so , they 're introduced to phonics , they 're introduced to learning to read , when they 're not at that developmental stage . and really , long term , it means the children lose confidence , because if they 're introduced to these things too early they do n't succeed , they tend to need additional support , and it can give them a negative impression , it can give them negative thoughts about their ability . so , we need to address that , and really it 's about— dawn bowden am : sorry , what sort of age range are we talking about here ? claire morgan : these would be children from three to five . so , this is very , very early on . </s>
<s> what was the top priority in skills developing , according to meilyr rowlands ? </s> dawn bowden am : right , okay . that 's fine . in terms of reading and literacy skills , we still remain quite low in the programme for international student assessment ratings for reading , and i know there is a particular concern about the impact on boys in that regard . what do you think are the most pressing priorities that face them around reading and literacy ? </s>
<s> what did the group talk about the progress in numeracy skills ? </s> dawn bowden am : sure , okay . can i just move you on , then , to numeracy and whether you can tell us if you 're satisfied with the progress in numeracy , because i think we were doing better on the pisa results in maths in wales than we did previously ? so , what are your thoughts on that ? meilyr rowlands : i think there is a fairly clear good news story here . pisa shows improvements and a lot of that can be attributed , i think , to the new gcse mathematics numeracy . i think there 's much less predictability in that work ; you ca n't approach it in a formulaic way , either the pupils or the teachers in terms of teaching it . there 's much more problem solving . it 's about applying what you 've learnt in the core mathematics lessons to new situations in subjects across the curriculum . i think that that gcse numeracy has built on the work that 's been done lower down on the national numeracy framework , which has the same philosophy of applying that mathematics knowledge in a problem-solving situation . that has been a really good news story , really . dawn bowden am : that 's something to be positive about , anyway . that 's good . my final question , chair , is : in your view , to what extent is wales on track to meet the target of 500 points in each of the domains in the 2020-1 cycle for pisa ? </s>
<s> what did meilyr rowlands say school could do about the poverty gap between pupils ? </s> lynne neagle am : we 've got some questions now around progress of specific groups of pupils . if i can start and ask you how concerning is it that the gap between pupils eligible for free school meals and other pupils has not narrowed in the last 10 years , especially given the £475 million pupil deprivation grant investment . </s>
<s> why did pupils from better-off backgrounds do less well , according to meilyr rowlands ? </s> suzy davies am : yes , just quickly . obviously , i think we 've all been to schools where the pdg is actually used to engage parents more for exactly the reasons you say . but i just wanted to interrogate the deprivation gap a little bit , because , of course , even though , as you say , there 's perhaps more equity in wales , one of the reasons for that is because our children from better-off backgrounds do less well , and considerably less well than their peers in the other parts of the united kingdom . so , whereas their attainment gaps are pretty dreadful , that 's one of the reasons—that our better-off children are n't doing as well as perhaps they might do . is that a concern as well ? we do n't want this rush to the middle , do we ? meilyr rowlands : i think it 's essential that all groups of pupils do as well as they possibly can , absolutely . so , it 's not quite the same issue , but we 've talked about the importance of making sure that more able and talented children do well . suzy davies am : they 're not the same . </s>
<s> why did jassa scott believe it was more difficult for secondary schools to prioritize mental health and well-being ? </s> jassa scott : yes , you 're right . as we mentioned earlier , we do pupil surveys before all our inspections , and across a number of those indicators , like , 'how well does the school listen ? do adults in school care about me ? how well does the school deal with bullying ? '—quite a lot those ones around well-being do tail off . nine out of 10 pupils at key stage 2 have that confidence , down to half at key stage 4 , as you say . and i think there are a number of factors that we think contribute to that : i think one of the factors is that pupils face , sometimes , more challenges as they get older in those teenage years , but they also become more reflective and perhaps more discerning . and i think what we find in secondary schools is perhaps secondary school pupils notice sometimes the differences between their everyday life that they experience in school and perhaps the messages that they 're getting about well-being in terms of their lessons , in terms of assemblies and in terms of school policies and so on . so , they are probably more discerning in noticing those differences and maybe there are some of those differences also there in primary school , but the pupils do n't notice . i think we 've already touched upon things like the differences in the way that , at primary school , you would tend to have a go-to adult , which is your teacher . the best secondary schools find ways to make sure that pupils do feel that level of support and feel there are trusted people , but it 's more of a challenge to make sure that that happens , because of the way they 're operating . we still have some concerns about personal and social education and the health and well-being support , which we 've made a recommendation about in the past in some of our thematic reports , but also recently in some of our secondary school inspection reports . and i think i already touched upon the fact that sometimes , when the budget is tight , it can be some of those—they 're not peripheral in their importance , but they 're not the teacher in the classroom : well-being support assistants and so on and family liaison workers—staff in the school who perhaps really support that pastoral care that the school as a whole can provide—it may be that those are the roles that are less prevalent at times of less funding . so , i think there are some great members of staff doing a really good job , but perhaps they 're not those members of staff who can support teachers and support pupils in creating that kind of caring environment . maybe there a fewer of them around . so , i think there 's not an obvious answer and part of it is that they do become more discerning and perhaps more vocal in those responses generally , as they get older . so , you might have a truer reflection of opinions than perhaps— . and that might explain some of the difference with primary , where , generally , they 're quite positive about everything across most of the schools that we ask . lynne neagle am : so , it 's not that secondary schools—because you 've said that in a previous inspection report—are just not as good at prioritising mental health and well-being . </s>
<s> summarize what was said about digits form </s> grad d : and we already got the crash out of the way . it did crash , so i feel much better , earlier . professor f : yeah . postdoc e : interesting . hmm . professor f : will you get the door , and ? grad d : ok , so um . professor f : ok . you collected an agenda , huh ? grad d : i did collect an agenda . so i 'm gon na go first . mwa - ha - ha ! it should n't take too long . postdoc e : yeah . grad d : um , so we 're pretty much out of digits . we 've gone once through the set . um , so the only thing i have to do professor f : no there 's only ten . grad d : yeah , that 's right . so i i just have to go through them professor f : well , ok . grad d : and uh pick out the ones that have problems , and either correct them or have them re - read . so we probably have like four or five more forms to be read , to be once through the set . i 've also extracted out about an hour 's worth . we have about two hours worth . i extracted out about an hour 's worth which are the f digits with for which whose speaker have speaker forms , have filled out speaker forms . not everyone 's filled out a speaker form . so i extracted one for speakers who have speaker forms and for meetings in which the `` key `` file and the transcript files are parsable . some of the early key files , it looks like , were done by hand , and so they 're not automatically parsable and i have to go back and fix those . so what that means is we have about an hour of transcribed digits that we can play with . um , liz professor f : so you think two you think two hours is the is the total that we have ? grad d : yep , yeah . professor f : and you think we th uh , i i did n't quite catch all these different things that are not quite right , but you think we 'll be able to retrieve the other hour , reasonably ? grad d : yes , absolutely . so it 's just a question of a little hand - editing of some files and then waiting for more people to turn in their speaker forms . i have this web - based speaker form , and i sent mail to everyone who had n't filled out a speaker form , and they 're slowly s trickling in . professor f : so the relevance of the speaker form here , s grad d : it 's for labeling the extracted audio files . professor f : oh , ok . grad d : by speaker id and microphone type . professor f : was n't like whether they were giving us permission to use their digits or something . grad d : no , i spoke with jane about that and we sort of decided that it 's probably not an issue that we edit out any of the errors anyway . right ? so the there are no errors in the digits , professor f : yeah . grad d : you 'll always read the string correctly . so i ca n't imagine why anyone would care . so the other topic with digits is uh , liz would like to elicit different prosodics , and so we tried last week with them written out in english . and it just did n't work at all because no one grouped them together . so it just sounded like many many more lines instead of anything else . so in conversations with liz and uh jane we decided that if you wrote them out as numbers instead of words it would elicit more phone number , social security number - like readings . the problem with that is it becomes numbers instead of digits . when i look at this , that first line is `` sixty one , sixty two , eighteen , eighty six , ten . `` um , and so the question is does anyone care ? um , i 've already spoken with liz and she feels that , correct me if i 'm wrong , that for her , connected numbers is fine , postdoc e : mm - hmm . grad d : as opposed to connected digits . um , i think two hours is probably fine for a test set , but it may be a little short if we actually wan na do training and adaptation and all that other stuff . professor f : yeah um , do um you want different prosodics , so if you always had the same groupings you would n't like that ? is that correct ? phd g : well , we actually figured out a way to grad d : yeah , the the phd g : the the groupings are randomly generated . professor f : no but , i was asking if that was something you really cared about because if it was n't , it seems to me if you made it really specifically telephone groupings that maybe people would n't , uh , go and do numbers so much . you know if it if it 's phd a : uh phd g : i think they may still do it , um , professor f : maybe some , but i probably not so much . phd b : what about putting a hyphen between the numbers in the group ? phd g : and professor f : right ? so if you if if you have uh grad d : six dash one , you mean ? professor f : if you go six six six uh dash uh two nine three one . phd g : i well ok i it might help , i would like to g get away from having only one specific grouping . professor f : that 's what i was asking , yeah . phd g : um , so if that 's your question , professor f : yeah . phd g : but i mean it seems to me that , at least for us , we can learn to read them as digits postdoc e : yeah . phd g : if that 's what people want . i i 'm postdoc e : yeah . phd g : do n't think that 'd be that hard to read them as single digits . postdoc e : i agree . phd g : um , and it seems like that might be better for you guys since then you 'll have just more digit data , grad d : right . phd g : and that 's always a good thing . it 's a little bit better for me too because the digits are easier to recognize . they 're better trained than the numbers . grad d : so we could just , uh , put in the instructions `` read them as digits `` . professor f : right . phd g : right . right , read them as single digits , so sixty - one w is read as six one , postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : and if people make a mistake we grad d : how about `` o `` versus `` zero `` ? professor f : i mean , the other thing is we could just bag it because it 's it 's it 's - i 'm not worrying about it i mean , because we do have digits training data that we have from uh from ogi . i 'm sorry , digits numbers training that we have from ogi , we 've done lots and lots of studies with that . and um . phd g : but it 's nice to get it in this room with the acous professor f : yeah . phd g : i mean for it 's professor f : no , no , i guess what i 'm saying is that grad d : just let them read it how they read it . professor f : to some extent maybe we could just read them have them read how how they read it and it just means that we have to expand our our vocabulary out to stuff that we already have . phd g : right . well that 's fine with me as long as it 's just that i did n't want to cause the people who would have been collecting digits the other way to not have the digits . professor f : yeah . we can go back to the other thing later . phd g : so professor f : i mean we s we we 've we can do this for awhile and then go back to digits for awhile , or um . do yo i mean , do you want do you want this do you need training data or adaptation data out of this ? how much of this do you need ? with uh the phd g : it 's actually unclear right now . i just thought well we 're if we 're collec collecting digits , and adam had said we were running out of the ti forms , i thought it 'd be nice to have them in groups , and probably , all else being equal , it 'd be better for me to just have single digits since it 's , you know , a recognizer 's gon na do better on those anyway , um , and it 's more predictable . so we can know from the transcript what the person said and the transcriber , in general . professor f : ok , well if you pre phd g : but if they make mistakes , it 's no big deal if the people say a hundred instead of `` one oo `` . and also w maybe we can just let them choose `` zero `` versus `` o `` as they as they like because even the same person c sometimes says `` o `` and sometimes says `` zero `` in different context , professor f : yeah . phd g : and that 's sort of interesting . so i do n't have a specific need cuz if i did i 'd probably try to collect it , you know , without bothering this group , but if we can try it grad d : ok so so i can just add to the instructions to read it as digits not as connected numbers . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : right , and you can give an example like , you know , `` six sixty - one would be read as six one `` . grad d : right . postdoc e : mm - hmm . and i actually it 's no more artificial than what we 've been doing with words . phd g : and i think people will get it . postdoc e : i 'm sure people can adapt to this , read it single . phd g : right , right . postdoc e : the spaces already bias it toward being separated . phd g : it 's just easier to read . postdoc e : and i know i 'm gon na find this easier than words . phd g : right . grad d : oh yeah , absolutely , cognitively it 's much easier . phd g : ok i also had a hard hard time with the words , professor f : yeah . phd g : but then we went back and forth on that . ok , so let 's give that a try grad d : ok . and is the spacing alright or do you think there should be more space between digits and groups ? phd g : and grad d : or is that alright ? phd g : i mean what do other people think cuz you guys are reading { comment } them . postdoc e : i think that i it 's fine . i it it to me it looks like you 've got the func the idea of grouping and you have the grou the idea of separation and , you know , it 's just a matter of u i the instructions , that 's all . phd g : great . ok . grad d : and i think there are about ten different gouping patterns professor f : let 's try it . phd g : well let 's give it a try . grad d : is n't that right , liz ? that we did . phd g : righ - right , and you just they 're randomly generated and randomly assigned to digits . postdoc e : i did mm - hmm . professor f : so we have postdoc e : go ahead . professor f : sorry , i i was just gon na say , so we have in the vicinity of forty hours of of recordings now . and you 're saying two hours , uh , is digits , so that 's roughly the ratio then , something like twenty twenty to one . which i guess makes makes sense . so if we did another forty hours of recordings then we could get another couple hours of this . grad d : right . professor f : um , yeah like you say , i think a couple hours for a for a for a test test set 's ok . it 'd be nice to get , you know , more later because we 'll we might use use this up , uh , in some sense , postdoc e : mm - hmm . grad d : right . professor f : but but uh postdoc e : yeah , i also would like to argue for that cuz it it seems to me that , um , there 's a real strength in having the same test replicated in a whole bunch of times and adding to that basic test bank . grad d : right . postdoc e : hmm ? cuz then you have , you know , more and more , u chances to get away from random errors . and i think , um , the other thing too is that right now we have sort of a stratified sample with reference to dialect groups , and it might be there might be an argument to be made for having uh f for replicating all of the digits that we 've done , which were done by non - native speakers so that we have a core that totally replicates the original data set , which is totally american speakers , and then we have these stratified additional language groups overlapping certain aspects of the database . grad d : right . i think that uh trying to duplicate , spending too much effort trying to duplicate the existing ti - digits probably is n't too worthwhile because the recording situation is so different . professor f : yeah . grad d : it 's gon na be very hard to be comparable . postdoc e : except that if you have the stimuli comparable , then it says something about the the contribution of setting professor f : no it 's it 's not the same . postdoc e : and professor f : a little bit , but the other differences are so major . grad d : yeah i mean read versus not . professor f : they 're such major sources of variance that it 's it 's it 's uh postdoc e : what 's an example of a of m some of the other differences ? any other a difference ? professor f : well i i individual human glottis is going to be different for each one , you know , it 's just there 's so many things . grad d : well , and not just that , professor f : it 's it and and enunciation . grad d : i mean the uh the corpus itself . i mean , we 're collecting it in a read digit in a particular list , and i 'm sure that they 're doing more specific stuff . i mean if i remember correctly it was like postman reading zipcodes and things like that . professor f : ti - digits was ? grad d : i thought so . professor f : i thought i thought it was read . grad d : was it read ? professor f : yeah , i think the reading zipcode stuff you 're thinking of would be ogi . grad d : oh , i may well be . professor f : yeah , no ti - digits was read in th in read in the studio i believe . grad d : i have n't ever listened to ti - digits . so i do n't really know how it compares . professor f : yeah . yeah . grad d : but but regardless it 's gon na it 's hard to compare cross - corpus . professor f : but it but it - it 's different people is the is the core thing . postdoc e : ok , fine . professor f : and they 're different circumstances with different recording environment and so forth , so it 's it 's it 's really pretty different . but i think the idea of using a set thing was just to give you some sort of framework , so that even though you could n't do exact comparisons , it would n't be s valid scientifically at least it 'd give you some kind of uh frame of reference . uh , you know it 's not phd b : hey liz , what what do the groupings represent ? you said there 's like ten different groupings ? phd g : right , just groupings in terms of number of groups in a line , and number of digits in a group , and the pattern of groupings . phd b : mm - hmm . are the patterns like are they based on anything or phd g : um , i i just roughly looked at what kinds of digit strings are out there , and they 're usually grouped into either two , three , or four , four digits at a time . and they can have , i mean , actually , things are getting longer and longer . in the old days you probably only had three sequences , and telephone numbers were less , and so forth . so , there 's between , um well if you look at it , there are between like three and five groups , and each one has between two and four groupings and i purposely did n't want them to look like they were in any kind of pattern . grad d : and which group appears is picked randomly , and what the numbers are are picked randomly . phd b : mm - hmm . grad d : so unlike the previous one , which i d simply replicated ti - digits , this is generated randomly . phd g : right . phd a : oh ok . phd b : mmm , oh , ok . phd g : but i think it 'd be great i to be able to compare digits , whether it 's these digits or ti - digits , to speakers , um , and compare that to their spontaneous speech , and then we do need you know a fair amount of of digit data because you might be wearing a different microphone grad d : mm - hmm . phd g : and , i mean so it 's it 's nice to have the digits you know , replicated many times . especially for speakers that do n't talk a lot . grad d : yeah . phd g : so um , for adaptation . no , i 'm serious , phd a : yeah . grad d : yeah all we have for some people is digits . professor f : yeah . phd g : so we have a problem with acoustic adaptation , and we 're not using the digit data now , but you know grad d : oh , you 're not . phd g : not for adaptation , nope . v w we 're not we were running adaptation only on the data that we ran recognition on and i 'd as soon as someone started to read transcript number , that 's read speech and i thought `` well , we 're gon na do better on that , grad d : oh i see . phd g : that 's not fair to use `` . grad d : oh yeah that 's true , absolutely . phd g : but , it might be fair to use the data for adaptation , so . so those speakers who are very quiet , { comment } shy grad d : that would be interesting to see whether that helps . phd g : r right phd b : like adam ? grad d : do you think that would help adapting on yeah . yeah , i have a real problem with that . professor f : yeah . phd g : well , it sh i mean it 's the same micropho see the nice thing is we have that in the in the same meeting , grad d : right . same same acoustics , professor f : yeah . phd g : and so you do n't get grad d : same microphone , phd a : yeah . grad d : same channel . phd g : right , and so i still like the idea of having some kind of digit data . grad d : ok . good . professor f : yeah i mean , for the for the um acoustic research , for the signal - processing , farfield stuff , i see it as as as the place that we start . but , th i mean , it 'd be nice to have twenty hours of digits data , but but uh the truth is i 'm hoping that we we through the the stuff that that you guys have been doing as you continue that , we get , uh , the best we can do on the spontaneous stuff uh , uh nearfield , and then um , we do a lot of the testing of the algorithms on the digits for the farfield , and at some point when we feel it 's mature and we understand what 's going on with it then we we have to move on to the spontaneous data with the farfield . so . postdoc e : great . phd g : the only thing that we do n't have , i know this sounds weird , and maybe it 's completely stupid , but we do n't have any overlapping digits . grad d : yeah , we talked about that a couple times . phd g : an - yea i know it 's weird , but um phd a : overlapping digits ! grad d : the the problem i see with trying to do overlapping digits is the cognitive load . phd g : alright everybody 's laughing . ok . grad c : dueling digits . grad d : no it 's it 's not stupid , it 's just i mean , try to do it . phd g : i 'm just talkin for the stuff that like dan ellis is gon na try , grad d : i mean , here , let 's try it . phd g : you know , cross - talk cancellation . grad d : you read the last line , i 'll read the first line . professor f : let 's try it . phd g : wait oh it these are all the same forms . professor f : sixty - one . phd g : ok { comment } so but grad d : so so you read the last line , i 'll read the first line . professor f : no , i 'll p phd g : so you plu you plug your ears . grad d : oh i guess if you plug you 're ears you could do it , but then you do n't get the the same effects . phd a : yeah . phd g : well , what i mean is actually no not the overlaps that are well - governed linguistically , but the actual fact that there is speech coming from two people grad d : yeah . phd g : and the beam - forming stuf all the acoustic stuff that like dan ellis and and company want to do . grad d : oh i see . phd g : digits are nice and well behaved , i mean grad d : i guess we could try . phd g : anyway , it 's just a thought . grad d : we could try doing some . phd g : it it would go faster . phd b : parallel . phd g : it would take one around { comment } amount of ti phd b : it 's the p - make of digit reading . grad d : well well ok . well let 's try it . phd g : that 's right . i i mea i 'm i was sort of serious , but i really , i mean , i 'm i do n't feel strongly enough that it 's a good idea , professor f : see , y grad d : you do the last line , i 'll do the first line . o . { comment } that 's not bad . professor f : no , i can do it . phd b : i could n't understand a single thing you guys were saying . phd g : a and that prosody was great , by the way . postdoc e : i think it was numbers , but i 'm not sure . phd g : it it sort of sounded like a duet , or something . phd a : yeah . phd b : performance art . professor f : alright , let 's try three at once you you pick one in the middle . phd a : the aurora theater . phd g : i 'm sorry . i 'm mean i think it 's doable , grad d : the poor transcribers phd g : i 'm just grad d : they 're gon na hate us . phd g : so , we we could have a round like where you do two at a time , and then the next person picks up when the first guy 's done , or something . phd a : so pairwise . professor f : oh like a round , yeah , like in a a phd g : like a , phd a : yeah , just pairwise , professor f : yeah . phd g : what do you call it ? phd a : or yeah . grad c : round . grad d : a round . professor f : row , row , row your boat . phd g : li - a r like grad d : mm - hmm . professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah , like that . phd b : it 's gon na require some coordination . phd g : then it would go like h twice as fast , or a third as fast . postdoc e : you have to have a similar pace . phd g : anyway , it 's just a thought . professor f : yeah . phd g : i 'm actually sort of serious if it would help people do that kind o but the people who wan na work on it we should talk to them . professor f : i do n't think we 're gon na collect vast amounts of data that way , but i think having a little bit might at least be fun for somebody like dan to play around with , grad d : i think maybe if we wanted to do that we would do it as a separate session , professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah . grad d : something like that rather than doing it during a real meeting and you know , do two people at a time then three people at a time and things like that . so . phd g : can try it out . grad d : see see what dan thinks . phd g : if we have nothing if we have no agenda we could do it some week . grad d : yeah , right . professor f : yeah , yeah . spend the whole time reading digits with different qu quantities . grad d : i thought this was gon na be fast . postdoc e : c c can i can i have an another another question w about this ? grad d : oh well . postdoc e : so , um , there are these digits , which are detached digits , but there are other words that contain the same general phon phoneme sequences . like `` wonderful `` has `` one `` in it and and victor borge had a had a piece on this where he inflated the digits . well , i wonder if there 's , um , an if there would be a value in having digits that are in essence embedded in real words to compare in terms of like the articulation of `` one `` in `` wonderful `` versus `` one `` as a digit being read . professor f : that 's `` two `` bad . yeah . phd g : i 'm all `` four `` it . postdoc e : there you go . grad d : not after i `` eight `` though . professor f : uh , they do n't all work as well , do they ? hmm . what does nine work in ? grad c : nein ! you scream it . grad d : nein ! you have to be german , professor f : oh . in german , phd a : that 's german , yeah . phd b : it 's great for the germans . professor f : yeah . grad d : yeah . phd g : oh , oh ! postdoc e : nein . professor f : that 's right ! phd a : yeah . grad c : it only sounds w good when you scream it , though . so . professor f : i think everybody 's a little punchy here today . postdoc e : well , i mean , i just wanted to offer that as a possible task because , you know , if we were to each read his embedded numbers words in sent in sentences cuz it 's like an entire sketch he does and i would n't take the inflated version . so he talks about the woman being `` two - derful `` , and and a but , you know , if it were to be deflated , just the normal word , it would be like a little story that we could read . professor f : mm - hmm . postdoc e : i do n't know if it would be useful for comparison , but it 's embedded numbers . grad d : i think for something like that we 'd be better off doing like uh timit . professor f : well i do n't know . well i think the question is what the research is , so i mean , i presume that the reason that you wanted to have these digits this way is because you wanted to actually do some research looking at the prosodic form here . yeah ok . phd g : right , yeah . professor f : so if somebody wanted to do that , if they wanted to look at the the the difference of the uh phones in the digits in the context of a word versus uh the digits a a non - digit word versus in digit word , uh that would be a good thing to do , but i think someone would have to express interest in that . postdoc e : i see . ok . professor f : i think , to i mean if you were interested in it then we could do it , for instance . postdoc e : ok , thank you . grad d : ok , are we done with digits ? um , we have asr results from liz , transcript status from jane , and disk space and storage formats from don . does do we have any prefer preference on which way we wan na we wan na go ? phd g : well i was actually gon na skip the asr results part , in favor of getting the transcription stuff talked about grad d : mm - hmm . phd g : since i think that 's more important to moving forward , but i mean morgan has this paper copy and if people have questions , um , it 's pretty preliminary in terms of asr results because we did n't do anything fancy , but i think e just having the results there , and pointing out some main conclusions like it 's not the speaking style that differs , it 's the fact that there 's overlap that causes recognition errors . and then , the fact that it 's almost all insertion errors , which you would expect but you might also think that in the overlapped regions you would get substitutions and so forth , um , leads us to believe that doing a better segmentation , like your channel - based segmentation , or some kind of uh , echo cancellation to get basically back down to the individual speaker utterances would be probably all that we would need to be able to do good recognition on the on the close - talking mikes . phd a : so these grad d : um , why do n't you , if you have a hard copy , why do n't you email it to the list . phd g : so , that 's about the summary but this is morgan has this paper . phd a : yeah , yeah . grad d : oh it 's in the paper . professor f : yeah , so it 's the same thing ? phd g : i mean he he professor f : it 's the same thing i mailed to every everybody that w where it was , phd g : it it 's that paper . yeah , yeah . grad d : ok then , it 's already been mailed . phd g : so , we basically , um , did a lot of work on that professor f : yeah . phd g : and it 's let 's see , th i guess the other neat thing is it shows for sure w that the lapel , you know within speaker is bad . grad d : horrible ? phd g : and it 's bad because it picks up the overlapping speech . phd a : so , your your asr results were run on the channels synchronized , phd g : yes , cuz that 's all that w had been transcribed at the time , phd a : ok . ok . ok . phd g : um but as we i mean i wanted to here more about the transcription . if we can get the channel asynchronous or the phd a : yeah . phd g : the closer t that would be very interesting for us phd b : so if phd g : because we professor f : yeah , that 's that 's why i only used the part from use phd a : yeah . professor f : which we had uh about uh about the alt over all the channels phd a : yeah . phd g : right . that 's phd a : yeah sure . yeah . professor f : or mixed channel phd a : yeah . professor f : rather mixed signal . phd b : so if there was a segment of speech this long phd g : cuz phd a : yeah . phd b : and oh and someone said `` oh , `` the whole thing was passed to the recognizer ? grad d : and someone said `` oh `` in the front in the middle . phd a : there were several speakers in it , yeah . phd g : that 's right . in fact i i pulled out a couple classic examples in case you wan na u use them in your talk of phd b : that 's why there 's so many insertion errors ? grad c : mm - hmm . phd g : chuck on the lapel , so chuck wore the lapel three out of four times . grad d : i noticed that chuck was wearing the lapel a lot . phd b : early on , yeah . phd g : um , yeah , and i wore the lapel once , and for me the lapel was ok . i mean i still and i do n't know why . i 'm but um , grad d : probably how you wear it wore it i would guess . phd g : for you it was or who was next to me or something like that . grad c : yeah , where you were sitting probably affected it . phd a : yeah . phd g : right , but when chuck wore the lapel and morgan was talking there 're a couple really long utterances where chuck is saying a few things inside , and it 's picking up all of morgan 's words pretty well and so the rec you know , there 're error rates because of insertion insertions are n't bounded , so with a one - word utterance and ten insertions you know you got huge error rate . grad d : uh - huh . phd a : yeah . phd g : and that 's that 's where the problems come in . so i this is sort of what we expected , but it 's nice to be able to to show it . grad d : right . phd g : and also i just wanted to mention briefly that , um , uh andreas and i called up dan ellis who 's still stuck in switzerland , and we were gon na ask him if if there 're you know , what 's out there in terms of echo cancellation and things like that . not that we were gon na do it , but we wanted to know what would need to be done . grad d : and he said , `` lots lots lots lots . `` phd g : and he we 've given him the data we have so far , so these sychronous cases where there are overlap . and he 's gon na look into trying to run some things that are out there and see how well it can do phd b : so phd g : because right now we 're not able to actually report on recognition in a real paper , like a eurospeech paper , because it would look sort of premature . phd b : so so the idea is that you would take this big hunk where somebody 's only speaking a small amount in it , and then try to figure out where they 're speaking { comment } based on the other peopl phd g : right . or who 's at any point in time who 's the foreground speaker , who 's the background speaker . phd a : so yeah phd b : i thought we were just gon na move the boundaries in . phd a : yeah , should it grad d : well that 's with the hand stuff . phd g : so there 's like grad d : but how would you do that automatically ? phd g : well ther there 's phd a : uh , i 've actually done some experiments with cross - correlation phd b : right . phd a : and it seems to work pretty well to to get rid of those those overlaps , grad d : i mean that that 's the sort of thing that you would do . professor f : mm - hmm . phd g : yeah . phd a : yeah . phd g : yeah . exactly , so it 's it 's a phd b : so why do you want to do echo cancellation ? phd g : um , it would be techniques used from adaptive adaptive echo cancellation which i do n't know enough about to talk about . phd b : uh - huh . professor f : it just it just to r to remove cross - talk . grad c : yeah . professor f : yeah . phd g : but , right , um , and that would be similar to what you 're also trying to do , but using um , you know , more than energy phd a : yeah . phd g : i i do n't know what exactly would go into it . phd a : yeah , sure . phd b : so it would be phd g : so the idea is to basically run this on the whole meeting . and get the locations , which gives you also the time boundaries of the individual speak phd b : ok . so do sort of what he 's already what he 's trying to do . phd g : right . except that there are many techniques for the kinds of cues , um , that you can use to do that . phd a : yeah , in another way , phd b : ok , i s i see . phd a : yeah . yeah . phd b : yeah . i see . professor f : yeah , dave dave uh is , um , also gon na be doin usin playing around with echo cancellation for the nearfield farfield stuff , so we 'll be phd g : and i guess espen ? this is uh is he here too ? professor f : yeah . phd g : may also be working so it would just be ver that 's really the next step because we ca n't do too much , you know , on term in terms of recognition results knowing that this is a big problem phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : um , until we can do that kind of processing . and so , once we have some some of yours , phd a : ok . yeah i 'm working on it . phd g : and @ @ we 'll move on . phd b : i think this also ties into one of the things that jane is gon na talk about too . grad d : i also wanted to say i have done all this chopping up of digits , postdoc e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad d : so i have some naming conventions that we should try to agree on . so let 's do that off - line , phd g : oh right . grad d : we do n't need to do it during the meeting . phd g : yeah . right . definitely grad d : and and i have scripts that will extract it out from `` key `` files phd g : uh , and don should grad d : and and do all the naming automatically , grad c : alright . grad d : so you do n't have to do it by hand . phd g : great . grad c : you 've compiled the list of , uh , speaker names ? phd g : so that that 's it for the grad d : mm - hmm . phd g : speakers and ok . grad c : not names , but i ds . grad d : yep . yeah , names names in the names to i ds , so you phd g : great . grad d : and it does all sorts of matches because the way people filled out names is different on every single file so it does a very fuzzy sort of match . phd g : right . grad c : cool . phd g : so at this point we can sort of finalize the naming , and so forth , grad c : mm - hmm . phd g : and we 're gon na basically re rewrite out these waveforms that we did because as you notice in the paper your `` m o in one meeting and `` m o - two `` in another meeting and it 's we just need to standardize the grad c : yeah . that was my fault . phd g : um , no it 's it 's professor f : no , i did n't notice that actually . phd g : um , that 's why those comments are s are in there . grad c : yeah . then disregard it then . grad d : yep . so th i now have a script that you can just say basically look up morgan , phd g : so professor f : yeah . phd g : right . ok . grad d : and it will give you his id . phd g : great , great . grad d : so . um , phd g : terrific . grad d : alright . do we don , you had disk space and storage formats . is that something we need to talk about at the meeting , or should you just talk with chuck at some other time ? grad c : um , i had some general questions just about the compression algorithms of shortening waveforms and i do n't know exactly who to ask . i thought that maybe you would be the the person to talk to . so , is it a lossless compression { comment } when you compress , grad d : mm - hmm . grad c : so grad d : entropy coding . grad c : it just uses entropy coding ? ok . so , i mean , i guess my question would be is i just got this new eighteen gig drive installed . um , yeah , which is grad d : and i assume half of it is scratch and half of it is ? grad c : i 'm not exactly sure how they partitioned it . grad d : probably , yeah . grad c : but um , professor f : that 's typical , huh . grad c : yeah , i do n't know what 's typical here , but um , it 's local though , so grad d : that does n't matter . grad c : but grad d : you can access it from anywhere in icsi . n grad c : ok . alright . how do you do that ? professor f : in fact , this is an eighteen gig drive , { comment } or is it a thirty six gig drive with eighteen grad d : n grad c : eighteen . phd g : eigh - eighteen . it was a spare that dave had around grad d : slash n slash machine name , slash x a in all likelihood . professor f : oh ok . grad c : oh i see . ok . alright , i did know that . grad d : um , so the the only question is how much of it the distinction between scratch and non - scratch is whether it 's backed up or not . grad c : mm - hmm . right . grad d : so what you wan na do is use the scratch for stuff that you can regenerate . so , the stuff that is n't backed up is not a big deal because disks do n't crash very frequently , grad c : right . grad d : as long as you can regenerate it . grad c : right . i mean all of this stuff can be regenerated , phd g : yeah it 's grad c : it 's just a question grad d : then put it all on scratch phd g : well the grad d : because we 're icsi is is bottlenecked by backup . postdoc e : mm - hmm , very good point . phd g : yeah . grad d : so we wan na put phd g : well i 'd leave all the all the transcript stuff should n't should be backed up , postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : but all the waveform { comment } sound files should not be backed up , grad c : yeah , i guess right . phd g : the ones that you write out . grad c : ok . so , i mean , i guess th the other question was then , should we shorten them , downsample them , or keep them in their original form ? um grad d : it just depends on your tools . i mean , because it 's not backed up and it 's just on scratch , if your sc tools ca n't take shortened format , i would leave them expanded , grad c : right . grad d : so you do n't have to unshorten them every single time you wan na do anything . phd g : we can downsample them , grad c : do you think that 'd be ok ? to downsample them ? phd g : yeah . yeah , we get the same performance . i mean the r the front - end on the sri recognizer just downsamples them on the fly , grad c : yeah , i guess the only argument against downsampling is to preserve just the original files in case we want to experiment with different filtering techniques . phd g : so so that 's professor f : i i i 'm sorry phd g : yeah , if professor f : yeah , l i mean over all our data , we we want to not downsample . phd g : fe you 'd you wan na not . ok . professor f : yeah . phd g : so we 're what we 're doing is we 're writing out i mean , this is just a question . we 're writing out these individual segments , that wherever there 's a time boundary from thilo , or or jane 's transcribers , you know , we we chop it there . professor f : yeah . mm - hmm . phd g : and the reason is so that we can feed it to the recognizer , professor f : mm - hmm . phd g : and throw out ones that we 're not using and so forth . professor f : yeah . phd g : and those are the ones that we 're storing . grad d : yeah , as i said , since that 's it 's regeneratable , what i would do is take downsample it , phd g : so yeah . grad d : and compress it however you 're e the sri recognizer wants to take it in . phd g : yeah . so we ca n't shorten them , grad c : right . phd g : but we can downsample them . professor f : yeah , i mean yeah , i 'm sorry . as yeah , as long as there is a a form that we can come from again , that is not downsampled , { comment } then , grad c : r yeah . phd g : oh yeah th grad c : yeah those are gon na be kept . phd g : yeah . yeah . that that 's why we need more disk space cuz we 're basically duplicating the originals , um professor f : yeah . grad d : right . professor f : then it 's fine . but for for fu future research we 'll be doing it with different microphone positions and so on phd g : oh yeah . grad c : right . phd g : no . we always have the original long ones . professor f : we would like to phd b : so the sri front - end wo n't take a uh an an a large audio file name and then a a list of segments to chop out { comment } from that large audio file ? professor f : yeah . phd b : they actually have to be chopped out already ? phd g : um , it 's better if they 're chopped out , phd b : uh - huh . phd g : and and it it will be yeah , y we could probably write something to do that , but it 's actually convenient to have them chopped out cuz you can run them , you know , in different orders . you c you can actually move them around . grad d : and that 's the whole point about the naming conventions phd g : uh , you can get rid of grad d : is that you could run all the english speaking , phd g : yeah , it it 's a lot faster . grad d : all the native speakers , and all the non - native speakers , phd g : right . you can grab everything with the word `` the `` in it , grad d : and all the men , and all the women . yeah . phd g : and it 's that 's a lot quicker than actually trying to access the wavefile each time , find the time boundaries and so in principle , yeah , you could do that , phd b : i do n't i do n't think that 's really right . phd g : but it 's but it 's um grad d : `` that 's just not right , man . `` the the point phd g : these are long these are long grad d : so so s for example , what if you wanted to run run all the native speakers . phd g : you know . this is an hour of speech . grad d : right , so if if you did it that way you would have to generate a program that looks in the database somewhere , extracts out the language , finds the time - marks for that particular one , do it that way . the way they 're doing it , you have that already extracted and it 's embedded in the file name . and so , you know , you just say phd g : we - yeah that 's so that 's part of it grad d : y so you just say you know `` asterisk e asterisk dot wave `` , and you get what you want . phd g : is right . and the other part is just that once they 're written out it it is a lot faster to to process them . grad d : rather than doing seeks through the file . phd g : so . otherwise , you 're just accessing grad d : this is all just temporary access , so i do n't i think it 's all just it 's fine . you know . fine to do it however is convenient . phd g : right . professor f : i mean it just depends how big the file is . if the file sits in memory you can do extremely fast seeks phd g : right . the other thing is that , believe it or not i mean , we have some grad d : yeah and they do n't . two gig ? phd g : so we 're also looking at these in waves like for the alignments and so forth . you ca n't load an hour of speech into x waves . professor f : yeah . phd g : you need to s have these small files , and in fact , even for the transcriber program um grad d : yes you can . phd b : yeah , you you can give waves a start and an end time . and middle . phd g : yeah , if you try to load s really long waveform into x waves , you 'll be waiting there for phd b : no , i i 'm not suggesting you load a long wave file , i 'm just saying you give it a start and an end time . and it 'll just go and pull out that section . grad d : i th w the transcribers did n't have any problem with that did they jane ? postdoc e : what 's th u w in what respect ? phd g : loading the long phd a : no , with the transcriber tool , it 's no problem . grad d : they loaded they loaded the long long files into x waves . phd g : it takes a very long ti phd a : yeah just to load a transcription postdoc e : in the in mm - hmm . phd g : right . phd a : takes a long time , phd g : it takes a l very long time . phd a : but not for the wavefile . the wavefile is there immediately . postdoc e : mm - hmm . yeah . grad d : are you talking about transcriber or x waves ? phd a : yeah . oh , i 'm tr talking about transcriber . phd g : actually , you 're talking about transcriber , right ? phd a : yeah . grad d : because because i we used x waves to do the digits . postdoc e : it was also true of the digits task which was x waves . grad d : and they were loading the full mixed files then , postdoc e : yeah . very quickly . grad d : and it did n't seem to be any problem . postdoc e : i agree . phd g : huh . well we we have a problem with that , you know , time - wise on a it - it 's a lot slower to load in a long file , grad d : hmm . seemed really fast . phd g : and also to check the file , so if you have a transcript , um , grad d : well regardless , it 's professor f : yeah . phd g : i mean it 's i i think overall you could get everything to work by accessing the same waveform and trying to find two you know , the begin and end times . um , but i think it 's more efficient , if we have the storage space , to have the small ones . grad d : and , it 's no problem , right ? phd g : yeah , it 's grad d : because it 's not backed up . phd g : yeah . grad d : so we just phd g : it 's it 's just grad d : if we do n't have a spare disk sitting around we go out and we buy ourselves an eighty gigabyte drive and make it all scratch space . you know , it 's not a big deal . postdoc e : you 're right about the backup being a bottleneck . phd g : right . postdoc e : it 's good to think towards scratch . phd g : yeah , so these would n't be backed up , the postdoc e : yeah . phd g : right . grad d : so remind me afterward phd g : and grad d : and i 'll and we 'll look at your disk and see where to put stuff . grad c : ok . alright . i mean , i could just u do a du on it right ? and just see which how much is on each so . grad d : yep . each partition . and you wan na use , either xa or scratch . well x question mark , anything starting with x is scratch . postdoc e : with two two digits . grad d : two digits , right , xa , xb , xc . ok ? professor f : so , @ @ . grad d : jane ? postdoc e : ok . so i got a little print - out here . so three on this side , three on this side . and i stapled them . ok . alright so , first of all , um , there was a an interest in the transcribe transcription , uh , checking procedures and and i can tell you first , uh , to go through the steps although you 've probably seen them . um , as you might imagine , when you 're dealing with , um , r really c a fair number of words , and uh , @ @ { comment } natural speech which means s self - repairs and all these other factors , that there 're lots of things to be , um , s standardized and streamlined and checked on . and , um , so , i did a bunch of checks , and the first thing i did was obviously a spell - check . and at that point i discovered certain things like , um , `` accommodate `` with one `` m `` , that kind of thing . and then , in addition to that , i did an exhaustive listing of the forms in the data file , which included n detecting things like f faulty punctuation and things phd b : i 'm i 'm sorry to interrupt postdoc e : yeah ? phd b : you could could i just back up a little bit postdoc e : sure , please , phd b : and postdoc e : yeah , please , please . phd b : so you 're doing these so the whole process is that the transcribers get the conversation postdoc e : yeah , yeah , yeah . phd b : and they do their pass over it . and then when they 're finished with it , it comes to you , postdoc e : that 's right . phd b : and you begin these sanit these quality checks . postdoc e : exactly . i do these checks . uh - huh . exactly . yeah . thank you . and so , uh , i do a an exhaustive listing of the forms actually , i will go through this in in order , so if if we could maybe wait and stick keep that for a second cuz we 're not ready for that . grad d : so on the fifth page , seven down postdoc e : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . exactly ! exactly ! alright so , a spelling check first then an exhaustive listing of the , uh all the forms in the data with the punctuation attached and at that point i pick up things like , oh , you know , word followed by two commas . and th and then another check involves , uh , being sure that every utterance has an identifiable speaker . and if not , then that gets checked . then there 's this issue of glossing s w so - called `` spoken - forms `` . so there mo for the most part , we 're keeping it standard wo word level transcription . but there 's w and that that 's done with the assumption that pronunciation variants can be handled . so for things like `` and `` , the fact that someone does n't say the `` d `` , uh that 's not important enough to capture in the transcription because a a good pronunciation , uh , you know , model would be able to handle that . however , things like `` cuz `` where you 're lacking an entire very prominent first syllable , and furthermore , it 's a form that 's specific to spoken language , those are r reasons f for those reasons i i kept that separate , and used the convention of using `` cuz `` for that form , however , glossing it so that it 's possible with the script to plug in the full orthographic form for that one , and a couple of others , not many . so `` wan na `` is another one , `` going `` uh , `` gon na `` is another one , with just the assumption , again , that this th these are things which it 's not really fair to a c consider expect that a pronunciation model , to handle . and chuck , you in you indicated that `` cuz `` is is one of those that 's handled in a different way also , did n't you ? did i phd b : i do n't remember . postdoc e : ok . so so it might not have been it might not have been you , but someone told me that in fact `` cuz `` is treated differently in , um , i u in this context because of that r reason that , um , it 's a little bit farther than a pronunciation variant . ok , so after that , let 's see , phd b : so that was part of the spell - check , { comment } or was that that was after the spell - check ? postdoc e : um . well so when i get the exhau so the spell - check picks up those words because they 're not in the dictionary . phd b : uh - huh . postdoc e : so it gets `` cuz `` and `` wan na `` and that grad d : and then you gloss them ? postdoc e : yeah , mm - hmm . run it through i have a sed you know , so i do sed script saying whenever you see `` gon na `` you know , `` convert it to gon na `` , you know , `` gloss equals quote going - to quote `` , you know . and with all these things being in curly brackets grad d : mm - hmm . postdoc e : so they 're always distinctive . ok , i also wrote a script which will , um , retrieve anything in curly brackets , or anything which i 've classified as an acronym , and a pronounced acronym . and the way i tag ac pronounced acronyms is that i have underscores between the components . so if it 's `` acl `` then it 's `` a `` underscore `` c `` underscore `` l `` . grad d : and so so your list here , are these ones that actually occurred in the meetings ? postdoc e : and the th yes . uh - huh , yeah . grad d : whew ! postdoc e : ok , so now . uh and a grad d : we are acronym - loaded . phd g : um , can i ask a question about the glossing , uh before we go on ? postdoc e : yeah . phd g : so , for a word like `` because `` is it that it 's always predictably `` because `` ? i mean , is `` cuz `` always meaning `` because `` ? postdoc e : yes , but not the reverse . so sometimes people will say `` because `` in the meeting , and if if they actually said `` because `` , then it 's written as `` because `` with no w `` cuz `` does n't even figure into the equation . professor f : but but in our meetings people do n't say `` hey cuz how you doing ? `` phd g : beca - because right . { comment } right . grad d : except right there . postdoc e : yeah . professor f : yeah . phd g : um , so , i guess so , from the point of view of postdoc e : that 's a good point . phd g : the the only problem is that with for the recognition we we map it to `` because `` , grad d : well , phd g : and so if we know that `` cuz `` postdoc e : that 's fine . grad d : but they have the gloss . postdoc e : well don has a script . grad c : yeah . phd g : but , we do n't grad d : you have the gloss form so you always replace it . postdoc e : exactly . grad d : if that 's how what you wan na do . postdoc e : uh - huh . and don knows this , grad c : yeah . postdoc e : and he 's bee he has a glo he has a script that grad c : i replace the `` cuz `` with `` because `` if it 's glossed . phd g : s right . but , if it 's ok . grad c : and phd g : but then there are other glosses that we do n't replace , right ? because postdoc e : yes . and that 's why there 're different tags on the glosses , phd g : ok . so , then it 's fine . postdoc e : on the different on the different types of comments , which we 'll which we 'll see in just a second . grad c : right . postdoc e : so the pronounceable acronyms get underscores , the things in curly brackets are viewed as comments . there 're comments of four types . so this is a good time to introduce that . the four types . w and maybe we 'll expand that grad d : um postdoc e : but the but the comments are , um , of four types mainly right now . one of them is , um , the gloss type we just mentioned . grad d : can ca postdoc e : another type is , um grad d : so a are we done with acronyms ? cuz i had a question on what what this meant . postdoc e : i 'm still doing the overview . i have n't actually gotten here yet . grad d : oh i 'm sorry . postdoc e : ok so , gloss is things like replacing the full form u with the , um , more abbreviated one to the left . uh , then you have if it 's uh , there 're a couple different types of elements that can happen that are n't really properly words , and wo some of them are laughs and breathes , so we have uh that 's prepended with a v a tag of `` voc `` . phd a : whew ! postdoc e : and the non - vocal ones are like door - slams and tappings , and that 's prepended with a no non - vocalization . phd b : so then it just an ending curly brace there , or is there something else in there . postdoc e : oh yeah , so i e this would grad d : a comment , basically . postdoc e : let 's just take one example . phd b : oh , oh , oh . postdoc e : and then the no non - vocalization would be something like a door - slam . they always end . so it 's like they 're paired curly brackets . and then the third type right now , uh , is m things that fall in the category of comments about what 's happening . so it could be something like , you know , `` referring to so - and - so `` , `` talking about such - and - such `` , uh , you know , `` looking at so - and - so `` . phd b : so on the m postdoc e : yeah . phd b : on the middle t so , in the first case that gloss applies to the word to the left . but in the middle two th - it 's not applying to anything , right ? postdoc e : yeah , and this gets substituted here . grad d : they 're impulsive . postdoc e : huh - uh . no , they 're events . grad d : well the `` qual `` can be the `` qual `` is applying to the left . postdoc e : they 're actually they have the status of events . phd b : right , i just meant the middle two ones , yeah . postdoc e : well , and actually , um , it is true that , with respect to `` laugh `` , there 's another one which is `` while laughing `` , grad d : `` while laughing `` . postdoc e : and that is , uh , i i an argument could be made for this tur turning that into a qualitative statement because it 's talking about the thing that preceded it , but at present we have n't been , um , uh , coding the exact scope of laughing , you know , and so to have `` while laughing `` , you know that it happened somewhere in there which could well mean that it occurred separately and following , or , you know , including some of the utterances to the left . have n't been awfully precise about that , but i have here , now we 're about to get to the to this now , i have frequencies . so you 'll see how often these different things occur . but , um , uh , the very front page deals with this , uh , final c pa uh , uh , aspect of the standardization which has to do with the spoken forms like `` mm - hmm `` and `` mm - hmm `` and `` ha `` and `` uh - uh `` and all these different types . and , um , uh , someone pointed out to me , this might have been chuck , { comment } about , um about how a recognizer , if it 's looking for `` mm - hmmm `` with three m 's , and it 's transcribed with two m 's , that it might uh , that it might increase the error rate which is which would really be a shame because um , i p i personally w would not be able to make a claim that those are dr dramatically different items . so , right now i 've standardized across all the existing data with these spoken forms . grad d : oh good . postdoc e : i i should say grad d : so it 's a small list . postdoc e : all existing data except thirty minutes which got found today . so , i 'm gon na i 'm gon na i 'm gon na check grad d : that that 's known as `` found data `` . postdoc e : yeah , yeah . acsu - actually yeah . i got it was stored in a place i did n't expect , grad c : it 's like the z zapruder film . postdoc e : so and and um , w we , uh , sh yea reconstructed how that happened . professor f : i wan na work with lost data . grad d : yeah . it 's much easier . postdoc e : and this is this 'll be great . so i 'll i 'll be able to get through that tonight , and then everyth i well , actually later today probably . and so then we 'll have everything following these conventions . but you notice it 's really rather a small set of these kinds of things . grad d : yeah . postdoc e : and i made it so that these are , um , with a couple exceptions but , things that you would n't find in the spell - checker so that they 'll show up really easily . and , um grad c : jane , can i ask you a question ? what 's that very last one correspond to ? postdoc e : sure . grad c : i do n't even know how to pronounce that . postdoc e : well , yeah . now that that s only occurs once , phd g : yeah . postdoc e : and i 'm thinking of changing that . phd g : right . grad c : uh , is that like someone 's like burning or some such thing ? postdoc e : so - c i have n't listened to it so i do n't know . grad c : like their hair 's on fire ? postdoc e : i have n't heard it actually . i n i need to listen to that one . phd a : it 's the castle of ah ! phd g : actually we we gave this to our pronunciation person , grad c : uh , it looks like that . phd g : she 's like , `` i do n't know what that is either `` . so . postdoc e : did she hear the th did she actually hear it ? cuz i have n't heard it . phd g : no , we just gave her a list of words that , you know , were n't in our dictionary and so of course it picked up stuff like this , and she just did n't listen so she did n't know . we just we 're waiting on that just to do the alignments . postdoc e : yeah . yeah i 'm curious to se hear what it is , but i did n't know wan na change it to something else until i knew . grad c : right . phd g : maybe it 's `` argh `` ? postdoc e : well , sss , { comment } you know grad c : but that 's not really like no one really says `` argh , `` you know , phd g : yeah . right , no one say grad c : it 's not professor f : well , you just did . phd b : except for now ! grad c : well , there 's another there 's another word error . postdoc e : yeah . that 's right . grad d : yes , that 's right . we 're gon na have a big problem when we talk about that . grad c : cha - ching . phd b : we 're gon na never recognize this meeting . grad d : in monty python you say `` argh `` a lot . grad c : oh yeah ? grad d : so . well , or if you 're a c programmer . you say arg - c and arg - v all the time . postdoc e : yeah , that 's right . professor f : yeah . postdoc e : that 's right . grad c : that 's true . postdoc e : yeah . phd g : but it has a different prosody . grad d : it does . grad c : mm - hmm . professor f : arg arg - max , arg - min , yeah . phd g : so , jane , what 's the d grad d : maybe he died while dictating . phd g : i have one question about the the `` eh `` versus like the `` ah `` and the `` uh `` . postdoc e : that 's partly a nonnative - native thing , but i have found `` eh `` in native speakers too . but it 's mostly non - native phd b : that 's `` eh `` versus `` ah `` ? phd g : s ok . `` eh , `` yeah right , cuz there were were some speakers that did definite `` eh 's `` postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : but right now we phd b : they were the canadians , right ? professor f : canadians , yeah , yeah , yeah . postdoc e : that 's right . phd g : so , it it 's actually probably good for us to know the difference between the real `` eh `` and the one that 's just like `` uh `` or transcribed `` aaa `` postdoc e : exactly . phd g : cuz in like in switchboard , you would see e all of these forms , but they all were like `` uh `` . grad d : you mean just the single letter `` a `` { comment } as in the particle ? phd a : the transcription or grad d : article . phd g : no , no , i mean like the the `` uh `` , postdoc e : `` uh `` . phd g : or the `` uh `` , `` eh `` , `` ah `` were all the same . and then , we have this additional non - native version of uh , like `` eeh `` . grad c : all the `` eh `` 's i 've seen have been like that . they 've been like `` eh `` like that have bee has been transcribed to `` eh `` . and sometimes it 's stronger , postdoc e : mm - hmm , that 's right . grad c : like `` eeh `` { comment } which is like closer to `` eh `` . phd g : right . grad d : i 'm just these poor transcribers , they 're gon na hate this meeting . postdoc e : yeah . grad c : i know . we should go off - line . postdoc e : well , we 're not doing we 're not doing length . professor f : quick thilo , do a do a filled pause for us . postdoc e : yeah , that 's right . phd a : ooo { comment } no . phd g : but you 're a native german speaker so it 's not a not a issue for phd a : yeah . phd g : it 's only grad d : them canadians . phd g : onl yeah . no , only if you do n't have lax vowels , i guess . right . postdoc e : this makes sense . phd g : so it 's like japanese and spanish postdoc e : yeah i i think you 've uh - huh , yeah . grad d : oh i see . professor f : uh - huh . phd g : and grad d : i did n't get that , postdoc e : that makes sense . yeah , and so , you know , i mean , th th i have there are some , um , americans who who are using this `` eh `` too , and i have n't listened to it systematically , maybe with some of them , uh , they 'd end up being `` uh 's `` but , uh , i my spot - checking has made me think that we do have `` eh `` in also , um , american e e data represented here . but any case , that 's the this is reduced down from really quite a long a much longer list , phd g : yeah this is great . grad c : mm - hmm . grad d : yeah , it 's good , postdoc e : and this is grad d : yeah . phd g : this is really really helpful . postdoc e : functionally pretty , you know , also it was fascinating , i was listening to some of these , uh , i guess two nights ago , and it 's just hilarious to liste to to do a search for the `` mm - hmm 's `` . and you get `` mm - hmm `` and diff everybody 's doing it . grad d : and just listen to them ? yeah . postdoc e : just i wanted to say i w think it would be fun to make a montage of it because there 's a `` mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad d : performance art , postdoc e : mm - hmm . `` grad d : just extract them all . phd g : right . postdoc e : it 's really it 's really fun to listen to . phd b : morgan can make a song out of it . postdoc e : all these different vocal tracts , you know , but it 's it 's the same item . it 's very interesting . ok . uh , then the acronyms y and the ones in parentheses are ones which the transcriber was n't sure of , grad d : oh i see . postdoc e : and i have n't been able to listen to to to clarify , but you can see that the parenthesis convention makes it very easy to find them grad d : o how about question mark ? postdoc e : cuz it 's the only place where where they 're used . phd a : the question marks , yeah . what are those ? postdoc e : question mark is punctuation . so it they said that @ @ grad c : mm - hmm . postdoc e : um , `` dc ? `` grad d : so they so it 's `` plp ? `` postdoc e : exactly . exactly . yeah , so the only well , and i do have a stress marker here . sometimes the contrastive stress is showing up , and , um professor f : i 'm sorry , i i got lost here . what - w what 's the difference between the parenthesized acronym and the non - parenthesized ? postdoc e : the parenthesized is something that the transcriber thought was ann , but was n't entirely sure . so i 'd need to go back or someone needs to go back , and say , you know , yes or no , and then get rid of the parentheses . phd g : right . postdoc e : but the parentheses are used only in that context in the transcripts , of of noti noticing that there 's something uncertain . grad d : yeah , p - make is phd g : yeah i mean cuz they they have no idea , grad d : that 's a good one . that 's correct . phd g : right . if you hear ctpd , i mean , they do pretty well professor f : yeah . grad c : mm - hmm . phd g : but it 's professor f : i i do n't recognize a lot of these . phd g : you know how are how are they gon na know ? grad c : yeah . grad d : i know ! i i was saying that i think a lot of them are the networks meeting . professor f : i postdoc e : i think that 's true . professor f : maybe . postdoc e : yeah , absolutely . grad d : i see a few . phd g : yeah . postdoc e : a lot of these are are coming from them . i listened to some of that . grad c : yeah , we do n't have that many acronyms comparatively in this meeting . grad d : although i see i see plenty of uh postdoc e : yeah . yeah . i agree . grad c : it 's not so bad . phd g : right . postdoc e : and robustness has a fair amount , phd a : yeah . postdoc e : but the nsa group is just very very many . phd g : the recognizer , it is funny . kept getting pta for pda . grad d : yeah , that 's pretty close . professor f : yeah . phd g : this is close , right , grad c : that 's not bad . phd g : and the pta was in these , uh , topics about children , postdoc e : yeah . phd g : so , anyway . postdoc e : that 's interesting . phd g : is the p - pta working ? postdoc e : right and sometimes , i mean , you see a couple of these that are actually `` ok 's `` so it 's it 's may be that they got to the point where i mean it was low enough understandable understandability that they were n't entirely sure the person said `` ok . `` you know , so it is n't really necessarily a an undecipherable acronym , grad c : there 's a lot of `` ok 's `` . postdoc e : but just n needs to be double checked . now we get to the comments . this professor f : the number to the left is the number of incidences ? grad d : count . yep . postdoc e : number of times out of the entire database , professor f : uh - huh . postdoc e : w except for that last thirty minutes i have n't checked yet . professor f : so cts is really big here , grad d : yeah , i wonder what it is . professor f : yeah . yeah . phd a : so what is the difference between `` papers rustling `` and `` rustling papers `` ? professor f : ip , i know what ip is . postdoc e : i 'd have to listen . i i i agree . i w i 'd like to standardize these down farther but , um , uh , uh , to me that sounds equivalent . phd a : yeah . postdoc e : but , i i 'm a little hesitant to to collapse across categories unless i actually listen to them . phd a : seems so . grad d : oh i 'm sure we 've said xml more than five times . postdoc e : well , then , at least now . phd a : now it 's at least six times , yeah . professor f : s s six now , yeah . postdoc e : yeah . six . ok well professor f : wh - the self - referential aspect of these these p phd g : i 'm wai grad c : yeah . grad d : yes , it 's very bad . phd g : well this is exactly how people will prove that these meetings do differ because we 're recording , right ? y no normally you do n't go around saying , `` now you 've said it six times . grad d : yeah { comment } that 's right . phd g : now you 've said `` postdoc e : but did you notice that there were seven hundred and eighty five instances of `` ok `` ? phd a : seven hundred eighty - five instances . postdoc e : and that 's just without the without punc punctuation . grad c : yeah . professor f : no , i did n't . yeah . grad d : and that 's an underestimate postdoc e : extra forty one if it 's questioned . phd b : where 's that ? grad d : cuz they 're yep . postdoc e : on the page two of acronyms . grad c : is this after like did you do some uh replacements for all the different form of `` ok `` to this ? professor f : yeah . seven hundred eighty . postdoc e : yeah . of `` ok `` , yes . mm - hmm . so that 's the single existing convention for `` ok `` . phd b : wait a minute , w s professor f : so now we 're up to seven hundred and eighty eight . postdoc e : yeah that 's grad c : although , what 's there 's one with a slash after it . that 's kind of disturbing . postdoc e : yeah . grad d : yeah , we 'll have to look at it you know . postdoc e : that 's that 's i looked for that one . phd g : yeah . grad c : anyway . postdoc e : i actually explicitly looked for that one , grad c : mm - hmm . postdoc e : and i think that , um , i i 'm not exactly sure about that . phd b : was that somewhere where they were gon na say `` new speaker `` or something ? postdoc e : no , i looked for that , but that does n't actually exist . and it may be , i do n't i ca n't explain that . grad c : that 's alright . i 'm just pointing that out . postdoc e : i i it 's the only grad c : there 's postdoc e : it 's the only pattern that has a slash after it , and i think it 's it 's an epiphenomenon . phd g : well there 's not @ @ . grad d : so i 'll just i was just looking at the bottom of page three there , is that `` to be `` or `` not to be `` . postdoc e : yeah . phd b : there 's no tilde in front of it , postdoc e : oh that 's cute . that 's funny . yeah . grad d : ok anyways , sorry . `` try to stay on topic , adam . `` postdoc e : there is th one y well , no , that 's r that 's legitimate . so now , uh , comments , you can see they 're listed again , same deal , with exhaustive listing of everything found in everything except for these final th thirty minutes . grad d : ok so , um , on some of these quals , postdoc e : yeah . grad d : are they really quals , or are they glosses ? so like there 's a `` qual tcl `` . postdoc e : `` tcl `` . where do you see that ? oh , oh . the reason is because w it was said `` tickle `` . professor f : what 's a qual ? grad d : oh i see , i see . so it 's not gloss . ok , i see . grad c : sh - should n't it be `` qual tickle `` or something ? grad d : it was n't said `` tcl `` . of course . grad c : like it 's not postdoc e : on the in the actual script in the actual transcript , i s i so this this happens in the very first one . grad c : mm - hmm . postdoc e : i actually wrote it as `` tickle `` . because we they did n't say `` tcl `` , they said `` tickle `` . grad c : yeah . postdoc e : and then , following that is `` qual tcl `` . phd g : right . grad c : oh i see . ok . professor f : i f i forget , what 's qual ? postdoc e : qual - qualifier . phd b : it 's just comment about what they said . grad c : yeah . postdoc e : comment . grad c : it 's not something you wan na replace with postdoc e : comment or contextual comment . phd b : so they did n't mean `` tickle `` as in elmo , grad c : but phd a : tickle ? professor f : yeah . phd b : they meant `` tickle `` as in grad d : yeah . professor f : right . phd g : but at some point i mean , we probably shoul grad d : we 'll probably add it to the language model . phd g : but we should add it to the dictionar grad d : yeah . phd g : no , to the pronunciation model . grad d : what did i say ? phd a : to the language model model . phd g : language , uh grad d : well both . phd b : add what , liz ? grad d : we can go on lan lan add it to both dictionary and language model . phd g : oh lan oh ok - we ok phd a : yeah . phd g : it 's in the language model , w yeah , but it so it 's the pronunciation model that has to have a pronunciation of `` tickle `` . grad d : well `` tickle `` was pronounced `` tickle `` . right ? phd a : `` tickle `` is pronounced `` tickle `` ? phd b : what are you saying ? grad d : it 's pronounced the same it 's pronounced the same as the verb . phd g : i 'm sorry ! grad d : so i think it 's the language model that makes it different . phd g : oh , sorry . what i meant is that there should be a pronunciation `` tickle `` for tcl as a word . phd a : yeah . grad d : oh i see . phd g : and that word in the in , you know , it stays in the language model wherever it was . professor f : mm - hmm . grad d : right . right . professor f : right . phd g : yeah you never would put `` tickle `` in the language model in that form , grad d : right . phd g : yeah . right . there 's actually a bunch of cases like this with people 's names and phd b : so how w there 'd be a problem for doing the language modeling then with our transcripts the way they are . phd g : yes . yeah . yeah so th th there there 's a few cases like that where the um , the word needs to be spelled out in in a consistent way as it would appear in the language , but there 's not very many of these . tcl 's one of them . grad d : and and you 'll ha you 'll have to do it sychronously . phd g : um , y yeah . grad d : right , so y so , whoever 's creating the new models , will have to also go through the transcripts and change them synchronously . grad c : it 's just disturbing . phd g : right . right . we have this there is this thing i was gon na talk to you about at some point about , you know , what do we do with the dictionary as we 're up updating the dictionary , these changes have to be consistent with what 's in the like spelling people 's names and so forth . if we make a spelling correction to their name , like someone had deborah tannen 's name mispelled , and since we know who that is , you know , we could correct it , grad d : you can correct it . yeah . phd g : but but we need to make sure we have the mispel if it does n't get corrected we have to have a pronunciation as a mispelled word in the dictionary . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : things like that . grad d : these are so funny to read . postdoc e : well , of course now the the tannen corre the spelling c change . uh , that 's what gets i i picked those up in the frequency check . phd g : right . right . so if there 's things that get corrected before we get them , it 's it 's not an issue , postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : but if there 's things that um , we change later , then we always have to keep our the dictionary up to date . and then , yeah , in the case of `` tickle `` i guess we would just have a , you know , word `` tcl `` which phd b : mm - hmm . grad d : you add it to the dictionary . phd g : which normally would be an acronym , you know , `` tcl `` grad d : right . phd g : but just has another pronunciation . postdoc e : `` icsi `` is is one of those that sometimes people pronounce and sometimes they say `` icsi . `` grad d : mm - hmm . postdoc e : so , those that are l are listed in the acronyms , i actually know phd g : oh yeah . postdoc e : they were said as letters . the others , um , e those really do need to be listened to cuz i have n't been able to go to all the ic icsi things , phd g : right , exactly . postdoc e : and { comment } and until they 've been listened to they stay as `` icsi `` . grad d : mm - hmm . phd g : right . professor f : don and i were just noticing , love this one over on page three , `` vocal vocal gesture mimicking sound of screwing something into head to hold mike in place . `` grad c : that 's great . grad d : it 's this , `` rrre - rrre - rrre `` . it was me . postdoc e : it was ! in fact , it was ! yeah ! grad d : a lot of these are me the the `` beep is said with a high pit high pitch and lengthening . `` postdoc e : he he s he said he said get phd a : to head . grad d : that was the i was imitating uh , beeping out postdoc e : yeah , that 's it . professor f : beep . postdoc e : perfect . yeah that 's it . professor f : yeah . phd g : oh there is something spelled out `` beeeeeep `` grad c : um postdoc e : that 's it . grad c : yeah . postdoc e : yeah , that 's that 's been changed . phd g : in the old thank you . because he was saying , `` how many e 's do i have to allow for ? `` grad c : you need a lot of grad d : what i meant was `` beep `` . grad c : you need a lot of qualification adam . grad d : i guess so . postdoc e : that 's been changed . so , exactly , that 's where the lengthening comment c came in . grad c : subtext . grad d : anyway . postdoc e : s chan brought it down . phd g : right , thanks , yeah . grad d : so they 're vocalization , phd g : right . postdoc e : and those of course get get picked up in the frequency check grad d : glosses . postdoc e : because you see `` beep `` phd g : right . postdoc e : and you know i mean it gets kicked out in the spelling , and it also gets kicked out in the , uh , freq frequency listing . phd g : right . right . postdoc e : i have the there 're various things like `` breathe `` versus `` breath `` versus `` inhale `` and , hhh , you know , i do n't know . i i think they do n't have any implications for anything else so it 's like i 'm tempted to leave them for now an and it 's easy enough to find them when they 're in curly brackets . we can always get an exhaustive listing of these things and find them and change them . phd g : yeah . professor f : `` sings finale - type song `` grad c : yeah , that was in the first meeting . professor f : that 's that 's good . phd g : yeah . postdoc e : yeah , but i do n't actually remember what it was . but that was eric did that . professor f : yeah . grad d : so on postdoc e : yeah . professor f : tah - dah ! i do n't know . postdoc e : i think maybe something like that . professor f : something like that maybe , yeah . postdoc e : well , that 'd qualify . grad d : on the glosses for numbers , postdoc e : yeah . grad d : it seems like there are lots of different ways it 's being done . postdoc e : ok . interesting question . grad d : there 's a postdoc e : yes . ok , now first of all ooo - ooo ! very important . grad d : `` ooo - ooo . `` postdoc e : uh chuck chuck led to a refinement here which is to add `` nums `` if these are parts of the read numbers . now you already know i that i had , uh , in places where they had n't transcribed numbers , i put `` numbers `` in place of any kind of numbers , but there are places where they , um , it th this convention came later an and at the very first digits task in some transcripts they actually transcribed numbers . and , um , d chuck pointed out that this is read speech , and it 's nice to have the option of ignoring it for certain other prob uh p uh , things . and that 's why there 's this other tag here which occurs a hundred and five or three hundred and five times right now which is just well n n `` nums `` by itself grad d : `` nums `` , yeah . postdoc e : which means this is part of the numbers task . i may change it to `` digits `` . i mean , i with the sed command you can really just change it however you want because it 's systematically encoded , you know ? have to think about what 's the best for for the overall purposes , but in any case , um , `` numbers `` and `` nums `` are a part of this digits task thing . um , now th then i have these numbers that have quotation marks around them . um , i did n't want to put them in as gloss comments because then you get the substitution . and actually , th um , the reason i b did it this way was because i initially started out with the other version , you have the numbers and you have the full form and the parentheses , however sometimes people stumble over these numbers they 're saying . so you say , `` seve - seventy eight point two `` , or whatever . and there 's no way of capturing that if you 're putting the numbers off to the side . you ca n't have the seven and grad d : so what 's to the left of these ? postdoc e : the left is i so example the very first one , grad d : mm - hmm . postdoc e : it would be , spelled out in words , `` point five `` . grad d : ok , that 's what i was asking . right . postdoc e : only it 's spelled out in words . grad d : point five , yeah . postdoc e : so i this is also spelled out in in words . `` point five . `` grad d : good . postdoc e : and then , in here , `` nums `` , so it 's not going to be mistaken as a gloss . it comes out as `` nums quote dot five `` . grad d : ok now , the other example is , in the glosses right there , postdoc e : thank you . grad d : `` gloss one one one dash one three zero `` . grad c : right . grad d : what what 's to the left of that ? postdoc e : well now in that case it 's people saying things like `` one one one dash so - and - so `` or they 're saying uh `` two i mean zero `` whatever . and in that case , it 's part of the numbers task , and it 's not gon na be included in the read digits anyway , phd b : so there will be a `` nums `` tag on those lines ? postdoc e : so i m in the uh there is . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : yeah . i 've added that all now too . grad c : there 's a `` numbers `` tag grad d : good . grad c : i 'm sorry i 'm i did n't follow that last thing . phd g : wait . postdoc e : so , so gloss in the same line that would have `` gloss quote one one one dash one thirty `` , you 'd have a gloss at the end of the line saying , uh , `` curly bracket nums curly bracket `` . grad c : right . postdoc e : so if you if you did a , uh , a `` grep minus v nums `` phd g : oh , so you could do `` grep minus v nums `` . postdoc e : and you get rid of anything that was read . phd g : so that 's the yeah . so there would n't be something like i if somebody said something like , `` boy , i 'm really tired , ok . `` and then started reading that would be on a separate line ? ok great . cuz i was doing the `` grep minus v `` quick and dirty and looked like that was working ok , postdoc e : mm - hmm . good . phd g : but great . now why do we what 's the reason for having like the point five have the `` nums `` on it ? is that just like when they 're talking about their data or something ? postdoc e : this is more because phd g : or postdoc e : yeah . oh these are all these , the `` nums point `` , this all where they 're saying `` point `` something or other . phd g : these are all like inside the spontaneous postdoc e : and the other thing too is for readability of the transcript . i mean if you 're trying to follow this while you 're reading it it 's really hard to read , you know eh , `` so in the data column five has `` , you know , `` one point five compared to seventy nine point six `` , it 's like when you see the words it 's really hard to follow the argument . and this is just really a a way of someone who would handle th the data in a more discourse - y way to be able to follow what 's being said . grad d : label it . phd g : oh ok . postdoc e : so this is where chuck 's , um , overall h architecture comes in , phd g : i see . postdoc e : where we 're gon na have a master file of the channelized data . um , there will be scripts that are written to convert it into these t these main two uses and th some scripts will take it down th e into a f a for ta take it to a format that 's usable for the recognizer an uh , other scripts will take it to a form that 's usable for the for linguistics an and discourse analysis . and , um , the implication that that i have is that th the master copy will stay unchanged . these will just be things that are generated , and e by using scripts . grad d : master copies of superset . postdoc e : when things change then the the script will cham change but the but there wo n't be stored copies of in different versions of things . grad d : good . phd g : so , i guess i 'd have one request here which is just , um , maybe to make it more robust , th that the tag , whatever you would choose for this type of `` nums `` { comment } where it 's inside the spontaneous speech , is different than the tag that you use for the read speech . phd b : right . right . that would argue for changing the other ones to be `` digits `` or something . phd g : um , that way w if we make a mistake parsing , or something , we do n't see the `` point five `` , or or it 's not there , then we phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : a just an and actually for things like `` seven eighths `` , or people do fractions too i guess , you maybe you want one overall tag for sort of that would be similar to that , postdoc e : except phd g : or as long as they 're sep as they 're different strings that we that 'll make our p sort of processing more robust . postdoc e : well phd g : cuz we really will get rid of everything that has the `` nums `` string in it . phd b : i suppose what you could do is just make sure that you get rid of everything that has `` curly brace nums curly brace `` . postdoc e : well ex - exactly . phd b : i mean that would be the postdoc e : exactly . that was that was my motivation . and i these can be changed , like i said . phd g : yeah . postdoc e : you know , i mean , as i said i was considering changing it to `` digits `` . and , it just i you know , it 's just a matter of deciding on whatever it is , and being sure the scripts know . phd b : right . phd g : it would probably be safer , if you 're willing , to have a separate tag just because um , then we know for sure . and we can also do counts on them without having to do the processing . but you 're right , we could do it this way , it it should work . um , phd b : yeah , and it makes it i guess the thing about phd g : but it it 's probably not hard for a person to tell the difference phd b : yeah . phd g : because one 's in the context of a you know , a transcribed word string , phd b : right . postdoc e : the other thing is you can get really so minute with these things phd g : and so postdoc e : and increase the size of the files and the re and decrease the readability to such an extent by simply something like `` percent `` . now i i could have adopted a similar convention for `` percent `` , but somehow percent is not so hard , you know ? i it 's just when you have these points and you 're trying to figure out where the decimal places are and we could always add it later . percent 's easy to detect . point however is is uh a word that has a couple different meanings . and you 'll find both of those in one of these meetings , where he 's saying `` well the first point i wan na make is so - and - so `` and he goes through four points , and also has all these decimals . phd b : so liz , what does the recognizer do , what does the sri recognizer output for things like that ? `` seven point five `` . does it output the word phd g : `` seven point five `` . phd b : right , the word `` seven `` ? grad d : well , the numbers ? phd b : the number `` seven `` ? phd g : the word . phd b : the word `` seven `` , ok . professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah . professor f : so i 'd so `` i 'd like i 'd like to talk about point five `` . phd g : and and actually , you know the language professor f : yeah . phd g : it 's the same point , actually , the the p you know , the word `` to `` and the word y th `` going to `` and `` to go to `` those are two different `` to 's `` and so there 's no distinction there . phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : it 's just just the word `` point `` has yeah , every word has only one , yeah e one version even if even if it 's a actually even like the word `` read `` { comment } and `` read `` those are two different words . they 're spelled the same way , right ? phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : and they 're still gon na be transcribed as read . phd b : mm - hmm . professor f : right . phd g : so , yeah , i i like the idea of having this in there , i just i was a little bit worried that , um , the tag for removing the read speech because i what if we have like `` read letters `` or , i do n't know , grad d : we might wan na just a separate tag that says it 's read . phd g : like `` read something `` like `` read `` grad c : mm - hmm . phd g : yeah , basically . but other than that i it sounds great . grad d : yeah . ok ? are we done ? postdoc e : well i wanted to say also regarding the channelized data , grad d : oh , i guess we 're not done . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : that , um , thilo requested , um , that we ge get some segments done by hand to e e s reduce the size of the time bins wh like was chuc - chuck was mentioning earlier that , um , that , um , if you if you said , `` oh `` and it was in part of a really long , s complex , overlapping segment , that the same start and end times would be held for that one grad d : well postdoc e : as for the longer utterances , grad d : we did that for one meeting , right , postdoc e : and grad d : so you have that data do n't you ? phd a : yeah , that 's the training data . postdoc e : and he requested that there be , uh , similar , uh , samples done for five minute stretches c involving a variety of speakers and overlapping secti sections . phd a : yeah . postdoc e : he gave me he did the very nice , he he did some shopping through the data and found segments that would be useful . and at this point , all four of the ones that he specified have been done . in addition the i 've i have the transcribers expanding the amount that they 're doing actually . phd a : oh great . postdoc e : so right now , um , i know that as of today we got an extra fifteen minutes of that type , and i 'm having them expand the realm on either side of these places where they 've already started . phd a : oh great . ok . postdoc e : but if if you know , and i and he 's gon na give me some more sections that that he thinks would be useful for this purpose . phd a : yeah . yeah . postdoc e : because it 's true , i mean , if we could do the the more fine grained tuning of this , uh , using an algorithm , that would be so much more efficient . and , um . so this is gon na be useful to expand this . phd a : so i i thought we we sh we sh perhaps we should try to to start with those channelized versions just to just to try it . give it give one tr transcriber the the channelized version of of my speech - nonspeech detection and look if if that 's helpful for them , or just let them try if if that 's better or if they if they can postdoc e : you mean to start from scratch f in a brand new transcript ? phd a : yeah . yeah . yeah . postdoc e : that 'd be excellent . yeah , that 'd be really great . as it stands we 're still in the phase of sort of , um , cleaning up the existing data getting things , uh , in i m more tight tightly time uh , aligned . i also wan na tell um , i also wanted to r raise the issue that ok so , there 's this idea we 're gon na have this master copy of the transcript , it 's gon na be modified by scripts t into these two different functions . and actually the master phd b : two or more . two or more different functions . postdoc e : two two or more . and that the master is gon na be the channelized version . phd b : right . postdoc e : so right now we 've taken this i initial one , it was a single channel basically the way it was input . and now , uh , thanks to the advances made in the interface , we can from now on use the channelized part , and , um , any changes that are made get made in the channelized version kind of thing . but i wanted to get all the finished all the checks phd b : yeah , so that has implications for your script . grad c : yeah . so , uh , have those e e the vis the ten hours that have been transcribed already , have those been channelized ? and i know i 've seen @ @ i 've seen they 've been channelized , postdoc e : yes , they have . grad d : all ten hours ? postdoc e : except for the missing thirty minutes . grad c : have they uh have they been has the time have the time markings been adjusted , uh , p on a per channel grad d : great . postdoc e : uh , for for a total of like twenty m f for a total of let 's see , four times total of about an thirty minutes . that 's that 's been the case . and plus the training , whatever you have . grad c : i guess , i mean , i do n't know if we should talk about this now , or not , but i grad d : well it 's just we 're missing tea . grad c : yeah , i know . no , but i mean my question is like should i wait until all of those are processed , and channelized , like the time markings are adjusted before i do all the processing , and we start like branching off into the into the our layer of uh transcripts . postdoc e : well , you know the problem the problem is that some some of the adjustments that they 're making are to bring are to combine bins that were time bins which were previously separate . and the reason they do that is sometimes there 's a word that 's cut off . grad c : right . postdoc e : and so , i i i it 's true that it 's likely to be adjusted in the way that the words are more complete . and , grad c : ok . no i know i know that adjusting those things are gon na is gon na make it better . postdoc e : so i it 's gon na be a more reliable thing and i 'm not sure grad c : i mean i 'm sure about that , postdoc e : yeah . grad c : but do you have like a time frame when you can expect like all of it to be done , or when you expect them to finish it , or postdoc e : well partly it depends on how um , how e effective it will be to apply an algorithm because i this takes time , grad c : yeah . yeah . postdoc e : you know , it takes a couple hours t to do , uh , ten minutes . grad c : yeah , i do n't doubt it . um , so . phd b : so right now the what you 're doing is you 're taking the uh , the o original version and you 're sort of channelizing yourself , right ? grad c : yeah . i 'm doing it myself . i mean i if the time markings are n't different across channels , like the channelized version really does n't have any more information . phd b : mm - hmm . grad c : so , i was just i mean , originally i had done before like the channelized versions were coming out . phd b : right . right . so i i th i think probably the way it 'll go is that , you know , when we make this first general version and then start working on the script , that script @ @ that will be ma you know primarily come from what you 've done , um , we 'll need to work on a channelized version of those originals . grad c : and so it 's a question of like what mm - hmm . mm - hmm . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd b : and so it should be pretty much identical to what you have t except for the one that they 've already tightened the boundaries on . postdoc e : yep . mm - hmm . grad c : right . phd b : um , so postdoc e : yeah , i mean phd b : uh , and then probably what will happen is as the transcribers finish tightening more and more , you know , that original version will get updated postdoc e : yeah . phd b : and then we 'll rerun the script and produce better uh versions . but the i guess the ef the effect for you guys , because you 're pulling out the little wave forms into separate ones , that would mean these boundaries are constantly changing you 'd have to constantly re rerun that , grad c : i know . phd b : so , maybe grad c : right . postdoc e : but that phd g : but that that 's not hard . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : i i think the harder part is making sure that the transc the transcription so if you b merge two things , then you know that it 's the sum of the transcripts , but if you split inside something , you do n't where the word which words moved . phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd g : and that 's wh that 's where it becomes a little bit uh , having to rerun the processing . phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : the cutting of the waveforms is pretty trivial . grad c : yeah . i mean as long as it can all be done automatically , i mean , then that 's not a concern . phd b : mm - hmm . grad c : you know , if i just have to run three scripts to extract it all and let it run on my computer for an hour and a half , or however long it takes to parse and create all the reference file , that 's not a problem . phd g : right . phd b : yeah . uh - huh . mm - hmm . grad c : um , so yeah . as long as we 're at that point . and i know exactly like what the steps will work what 's going on , in the editing process , phd b : yeah . grad c : so . ok . postdoc e : so that 's i i mean i could there were other checks that i did , but it 's i think that we 've unless you think there 's anything else , i think that i 've covered it . professor f : yeah . phd b : i ca n't think of any of the other ones . postdoc e : ok . great . </s>
<s> summarize what was said about digits form </s> grad d : no , i spoke with jane about that and we sort of decided that it 's probably not an issue that we edit out any of the errors anyway . right ? so the there are no errors in the digits , professor f : yeah . grad d : you 'll always read the string correctly . so i ca n't imagine why anyone would care . so the other topic with digits is uh , liz would like to elicit different prosodics , and so we tried last week with them written out in english . and it just did n't work at all because no one grouped them together . so it just sounded like many many more lines instead of anything else . so in conversations with liz and uh jane we decided that if you wrote them out as numbers instead of words it would elicit more phone number , social security number - like readings . the problem with that is it becomes numbers instead of digits . when i look at this , that first line is `` sixty one , sixty two , eighteen , eighty six , ten . `` um , and so the question is does anyone care ? um , i 've already spoken with liz and she feels that , correct me if i 'm wrong , that for her , connected numbers is fine , postdoc e : mm - hmm . grad d : as opposed to connected digits . um , i think two hours is probably fine for a test set , but it may be a little short if we actually wan na do training and adaptation and all that other stuff . professor f : yeah um , do um you want different prosodics , so if you always had the same groupings you would n't like that ? is that correct ? phd g : well , we actually figured out a way to grad d : yeah , the the phd g : the the groupings are randomly generated . professor f : no but , i was asking if that was something you really cared about because if it was n't , it seems to me if you made it really specifically telephone groupings that maybe people would n't , uh , go and do numbers so much . you know if it if it 's phd a : uh phd g : i think they may still do it , um , professor f : maybe some , but i probably not so much . phd b : what about putting a hyphen between the numbers in the group ? phd g : and professor f : right ? so if you if if you have uh grad d : six dash one , you mean ? professor f : if you go six six six uh dash uh two nine three one . phd g : i well ok i it might help , i would like to g get away from having only one specific grouping . professor f : that 's what i was asking , yeah . phd g : um , so if that 's your question , professor f : yeah . phd g : but i mean it seems to me that , at least for us , we can learn to read them as digits postdoc e : yeah . phd g : if that 's what people want . i i 'm postdoc e : yeah . phd g : do n't think that 'd be that hard to read them as single digits . postdoc e : i agree . phd g : um , and it seems like that might be better for you guys since then you 'll have just more digit data , grad d : right . phd g : and that 's always a good thing . it 's a little bit better for me too because the digits are easier to recognize . they 're better trained than the numbers . grad d : so we could just , uh , put in the instructions `` read them as digits `` . professor f : right . phd g : right . right , read them as single digits , so sixty - one w is read as six one , postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : and if people make a mistake we grad d : how about `` o `` versus `` zero `` ? professor f : i mean , the other thing is we could just bag it because it 's it 's it 's - i 'm not worrying about it i mean , because we do have digits training data that we have from uh from ogi . i 'm sorry , digits numbers training that we have from ogi , we 've done lots and lots of studies with that . and um . phd g : but it 's nice to get it in this room with the acous professor f : yeah . phd g : i mean for it 's professor f : no , no , i guess what i 'm saying is that grad d : just let them read it how they read it . professor f : to some extent maybe we could just read them have them read how how they read it and it just means that we have to expand our our vocabulary out to stuff that we already have . phd g : right . well that 's fine with me as long as it 's just that i did n't want to cause the people who would have been collecting digits the other way to not have the digits . professor f : yeah . we can go back to the other thing later . phd g : so professor f : i mean we s we we 've we can do this for awhile and then go back to digits for awhile , or um . do yo i mean , do you want do you want this do you need training data or adaptation data out of this ? how much of this do you need ? with uh the phd g : it 's actually unclear right now . i just thought well we 're if we 're collec collecting digits , and adam had said we were running out of the ti forms , i thought it 'd be nice to have them in groups , and probably , all else being equal , it 'd be better for me to just have single digits since it 's , you know , a recognizer 's gon na do better on those anyway , um , and it 's more predictable . so we can know from the transcript what the person said and the transcriber , in general . professor f : ok , well if you pre phd g : but if they make mistakes , it 's no big deal if the people say a hundred instead of `` one oo `` . and also w maybe we can just let them choose `` zero `` versus `` o `` as they as they like because even the same person c sometimes says `` o `` and sometimes says `` zero `` in different context , professor f : yeah . phd g : and that 's sort of interesting . so i do n't have a specific need cuz if i did i 'd probably try to collect it , you know , without bothering this group , but if we can try it grad d : ok so so i can just add to the instructions to read it as digits not as connected numbers . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd g : right , and you can give an example like , you know , `` six sixty - one would be read as six one `` . grad d : right . postdoc e : mm - hmm . and i actually it 's no more artificial than what we 've been doing with words . phd g : and i think people will get it . postdoc e : i 'm sure people can adapt to this , read it single . phd g : right , right . postdoc e : the spaces already bias it toward being separated . phd g : it 's just easier to read . postdoc e : and i know i 'm gon na find this easier than words . </s>
<s> what ’ s the status of digits data ? </s> grad d : and i think there are about ten different gouping patterns professor f : let 's try it . phd g : well let 's give it a try . grad d : is n't that right , liz ? that we did . phd g : righ - right , and you just they 're randomly generated and randomly assigned to digits . postdoc e : i did mm - hmm . professor f : so we have postdoc e : go ahead . professor f : sorry , i i was just gon na say , so we have in the vicinity of forty hours of of recordings now . and you 're saying two hours , uh , is digits , so that 's roughly the ratio then , something like twenty twenty to one . which i guess makes makes sense . so if we did another forty hours of recordings then we could get another couple hours of this . grad d : right . professor f : um , yeah like you say , i think a couple hours for a for a for a test test set 's ok . it 'd be nice to get , you know , more later because we 'll we might use use this up , uh , in some sense , postdoc e : mm - hmm . grad d : right . professor f : but but uh postdoc e : yeah , i also would like to argue for that cuz it it seems to me that , um , there 's a real strength in having the same test replicated in a whole bunch of times and adding to that basic test bank . grad d : right . postdoc e : hmm ? cuz then you have , you know , more and more , u chances to get away from random errors . and i think , um , the other thing too is that right now we have sort of a stratified sample with reference to dialect groups , and it might be there might be an argument to be made for having uh f for replicating all of the digits that we 've done , which were done by non - native speakers so that we have a core that totally replicates the original data set , which is totally american speakers , and then we have these stratified additional language groups overlapping certain aspects of the database . grad d : right . i think that uh trying to duplicate , spending too much effort trying to duplicate the existing ti - digits probably is n't too worthwhile because the recording situation is so different . professor f : yeah . grad d : it 's gon na be very hard to be comparable . postdoc e : except that if you have the stimuli comparable , then it says something about the the contribution of setting professor f : no it 's it 's not the same . postdoc e : and professor f : a little bit , but the other differences are so major . grad d : yeah i mean read versus not . professor f : they 're such major sources of variance that it 's it 's it 's uh postdoc e : what 's an example of a of m some of the other differences ? any other a difference ? professor f : well i i individual human glottis is going to be different for each one , you know , it 's just there 's so many things . grad d : well , and not just that , professor f : it 's it and and enunciation . grad d : i mean the uh the corpus itself . i mean , we 're collecting it in a read digit in a particular list , and i 'm sure that they 're doing more specific stuff . i mean if i remember correctly it was like postman reading zipcodes and things like that . professor f : ti - digits was ? grad d : i thought so . professor f : i thought i thought it was read . grad d : was it read ? professor f : yeah , i think the reading zipcode stuff you 're thinking of would be ogi . grad d : oh , i may well be . professor f : yeah , no ti - digits was read in th in read in the studio i believe . </s>
<s> what additional assignments were proposed about the digits ? </s> postdoc e : nein . professor f : that 's right ! phd a : yeah . grad c : it only sounds w good when you scream it , though . so . professor f : i think everybody 's a little punchy here today . postdoc e : well , i mean , i just wanted to offer that as a possible task because , you know , if we were to each read his embedded numbers words in sent in sentences cuz it 's like an entire sketch he does and i would n't take the inflated version . so he talks about the woman being `` two - derful `` , and and a but , you know , if it were to be deflated , just the normal word , it would be like a little story that we could read . professor f : mm - hmm . postdoc e : i do n't know if it would be useful for comparison , but it 's embedded numbers . grad d : i think for something like that we 'd be better off doing like uh timit . professor f : well i do n't know . well i think the question is what the research is , so i mean , i presume that the reason that you wanted to have these digits this way is because you wanted to actually do some research looking at the prosodic form here . yeah ok . </s>
<s> what was said on the status of transcription ? </s> postdoc e : you 're right about the backup being a bottleneck . phd g : right . postdoc e : it 's good to think towards scratch . phd g : yeah , so these would n't be backed up , the postdoc e : yeah . phd g : right . grad d : so remind me afterward phd g : and grad d : and i 'll and we 'll look at your disk and see where to put stuff . grad c : ok . alright . i mean , i could just u do a du on it right ? and just see which how much is on each so . grad d : yep . each partition . and you wan na use , either xa or scratch . well x question mark , anything starting with x is scratch . postdoc e : with two two digits . grad d : two digits , right , xa , xb , xc . ok ? professor f : so , @ @ . grad d : jane ? postdoc e : ok . so i got a little print - out here . so three on this side , three on this side . and i stapled them . ok . alright so , first of all , um , there was a an interest in the transcribe transcription , uh , checking procedures and and i can tell you first , uh , to go through the steps although you 've probably seen them . um , as you might imagine , when you 're dealing with , um , r really c a fair number of words , and uh , @ @ { comment } natural speech which means s self - repairs and all these other factors , that there 're lots of things to be , um , s standardized and streamlined and checked on . and , um , so , i did a bunch of checks , and the first thing i did was obviously a spell - check . and at that point i discovered certain things like , um , `` accommodate `` with one `` m `` , that kind of thing . and then , in addition to that , i did an exhaustive listing of the forms in the data file , which included n detecting things like f faulty punctuation and things phd b : i 'm i 'm sorry to interrupt postdoc e : yeah ? </s>
<s> what solution was proposed for the transcribers ? </s> grad d : label it . phd g : oh ok . postdoc e : so this is where chuck 's , um , overall h architecture comes in , phd g : i see . postdoc e : where we 're gon na have a master file of the channelized data . um , there will be scripts that are written to convert it into these t these main two uses and th some scripts will take it down th e into a f a for ta take it to a format that 's usable for the recognizer an uh , other scripts will take it to a form that 's usable for the for linguistics an and discourse analysis . and , um , the implication that that i have is that th the master copy will stay unchanged . these will just be things that are generated , and e by using scripts . grad d : master copies of superset . postdoc e : when things change then the the script will cham change but the but there wo n't be stored copies of in different versions of things . grad d : good . phd g : so , i guess i 'd have one request here which is just , um , maybe to make it more robust , th that the tag , whatever you would choose for this type of `` nums `` { comment } where it 's inside the spontaneous speech , is different than the tag that you use for the read speech . phd b : right . right . that would argue for changing the other ones to be `` digits `` or something . phd g : um , that way w if we make a mistake parsing , or something , we do n't see the `` point five `` , or or it 's not there , then we phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : a just an and actually for things like `` seven eighths `` , or people do fractions too i guess , you maybe you want one overall tag for sort of that would be similar to that , postdoc e : except phd g : or as long as they 're sep as they 're different strings that we that 'll make our p sort of processing more robust . postdoc e : well phd g : cuz we really will get rid of everything that has the `` nums `` string in it . phd b : i suppose what you could do is just make sure that you get rid of everything that has `` curly brace nums curly brace `` . postdoc e : well ex - exactly . phd b : i mean that would be the postdoc e : exactly . that was that was my motivation . and i these can be changed , like i said . phd g : yeah . postdoc e : you know , i mean , as i said i was considering changing it to `` digits `` . and , it just i you know , it 's just a matter of deciding on whatever it is , and being sure the scripts know . phd b : right . phd g : it would probably be safer , if you 're willing , to have a separate tag just because um , then we know for sure . and we can also do counts on them without having to do the processing . but you 're right , we could do it this way , it it should work . um , phd b : yeah , and it makes it i guess the thing about phd g : but it it 's probably not hard for a person to tell the difference phd b : yeah . phd g : because one 's in the context of a you know , a transcribed word string , phd b : right . postdoc e : the other thing is you can get really so minute with these things phd g : and so postdoc e : and increase the size of the files and the re and decrease the readability to such an extent by simply something like `` percent `` . now i i could have adopted a similar convention for `` percent `` , but somehow percent is not so hard , you know ? i it 's just when you have these points and you 're trying to figure out where the decimal places are and we could always add it later . percent 's easy to detect . point however is is uh a word that has a couple different meanings . and you 'll find both of those in one of these meetings , where he 's saying `` well the first point i wan na make is so - and - so `` and he goes through four points , and also has all these decimals . phd b : so liz , what does the recognizer do , what does the sri recognizer output for things like that ? `` seven point five `` . does it output the word phd g : `` seven point five `` . phd b : right , the word `` seven `` ? grad d : well , the numbers ? phd b : the number `` seven `` ? phd g : the word . phd b : the word `` seven `` , ok . professor f : yeah . phd g : yeah . professor f : so i 'd so `` i 'd like i 'd like to talk about point five `` . phd g : and and actually , you know the language professor f : yeah . phd g : it 's the same point , actually , the the p you know , the word `` to `` and the word y th `` going to `` and `` to go to `` those are two different `` to 's `` and so there 's no distinction there . phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : it 's just just the word `` point `` has yeah , every word has only one , yeah e one version even if even if it 's a actually even like the word `` read `` { comment } and `` read `` those are two different words . they 're spelled the same way , right ? phd b : mm - hmm . phd g : and they 're still gon na be transcribed as read . phd b : mm - hmm . professor f : right . phd g : so , yeah , i i like the idea of having this in there , i just i was a little bit worried that , um , the tag for removing the read speech because i what if we have like `` read letters `` or , i do n't know , grad d : we might wan na just a separate tag that says it 's read . phd g : like `` read something `` like `` read `` grad c : mm - hmm . phd g : yeah , basically . but other than that i it sounds great . grad d : yeah . ok ? are we done ? postdoc e : well i wanted to say also regarding the channelized data , grad d : oh , i guess we 're not done . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : that , um , thilo requested , um , that we ge get some segments done by hand to e e s reduce the size of the time bins wh like was chuc - chuck was mentioning earlier that , um , that , um , if you if you said , `` oh `` and it was in part of a really long , s complex , overlapping segment , that the same start and end times would be held for that one grad d : well postdoc e : as for the longer utterances , grad d : we did that for one meeting , right , postdoc e : and grad d : so you have that data do n't you ? phd a : yeah , that 's the training data . postdoc e : and he requested that there be , uh , similar , uh , samples done for five minute stretches c involving a variety of speakers and overlapping secti sections . phd a : yeah . postdoc e : he gave me he did the very nice , he he did some shopping through the data and found segments that would be useful . and at this point , all four of the ones that he specified have been done . in addition the i 've i have the transcribers expanding the amount that they 're doing actually . phd a : oh great . postdoc e : so right now , um , i know that as of today we got an extra fifteen minutes of that type , and i 'm having them expand the realm on either side of these places where they 've already started . phd a : oh great . ok . </s>
<s> what was included in the transcription formalization ? </s> postdoc e : exactly . yeah . thank you . and so , uh , i do a an exhaustive listing of the forms actually , i will go through this in in order , so if if we could maybe wait and stick keep that for a second cuz we 're not ready for that . grad d : so on the fifth page , seven down postdoc e : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . exactly ! exactly ! alright so , a spelling check first then an exhaustive listing of the , uh all the forms in the data with the punctuation attached and at that point i pick up things like , oh , you know , word followed by two commas . and th and then another check involves , uh , being sure that every utterance has an identifiable speaker . and if not , then that gets checked . then there 's this issue of glossing s w so - called `` spoken - forms `` . so there mo for the most part , we 're keeping it standard wo word level transcription . but there 's w and that that 's done with the assumption that pronunciation variants can be handled . so for things like `` and `` , the fact that someone does n't say the `` d `` , uh that 's not important enough to capture in the transcription because a a good pronunciation , uh , you know , model would be able to handle that . however , things like `` cuz `` where you 're lacking an entire very prominent first syllable , and furthermore , it 's a form that 's specific to spoken language , those are r reasons f for those reasons i i kept that separate , and used the convention of using `` cuz `` for that form , however , glossing it so that it 's possible with the script to plug in the full orthographic form for that one , and a couple of others , not many . so `` wan na `` is another one , `` going `` uh , `` gon na `` is another one , with just the assumption , again , that this th these are things which it 's not really fair to a c consider expect that a pronunciation model , to handle . and chuck , you in you indicated that `` cuz `` is is one of those that 's handled in a different way also , did n't you ? did i phd b : i do n't remember . postdoc e : ok . so so it might not have been it might not have been you , but someone told me that in fact `` cuz `` is treated differently in , um , i u in this context because of that r reason that , um , it 's a little bit farther than a pronunciation variant . ok , so after that , let 's see , phd b : so that was part of the spell - check , { comment } or was that that was after the spell - check ? postdoc e : um . well so when i get the exhau so the spell - check picks up those words because they 're not in the dictionary . phd b : uh - huh . postdoc e : so it gets `` cuz `` and `` wan na `` and that grad d : and then you gloss them ? postdoc e : yeah , mm - hmm . run it through i have a sed you know , so i do sed script saying whenever you see `` gon na `` you know , `` convert it to gon na `` , you know , `` gloss equals quote going - to quote `` , you know . and with all these things being in curly brackets grad d : mm - hmm . postdoc e : so they 're always distinctive . ok , i also wrote a script which will , um , retrieve anything in curly brackets , or anything which i 've classified as an acronym , and a pronounced acronym . and the way i tag ac pronounced acronyms is that i have underscores between the components . so if it 's `` acl `` then it 's `` a `` underscore `` c `` underscore `` l `` . grad d : and so so your list here , are these ones that actually occurred in the meetings ? postdoc e : and the th yes . uh - huh , yeah . grad d : whew ! postdoc e : ok , so now . uh and a grad d : we are acronym - loaded . phd g : um , can i ask a question about the glossing , uh before we go on ? postdoc e : yeah . phd g : so , for a word like `` because `` is it that it 's always predictably `` because `` ? i mean , is `` cuz `` always meaning `` because `` ? postdoc e : yes , but not the reverse . so sometimes people will say `` because `` in the meeting , and if if they actually said `` because `` , then it 's written as `` because `` with no w `` cuz `` does n't even figure into the equation . professor f : but but in our meetings people do n't say `` hey cuz how you doing ? `` phd g : beca - because right . { comment } right . grad d : except right there . postdoc e : yeah . professor f : yeah . phd g : um , so , i guess so , from the point of view of postdoc e : that 's a good point . phd g : the the only problem is that with for the recognition we we map it to `` because `` , grad d : well , phd g : and so if we know that `` cuz `` postdoc e : that 's fine . grad d : but they have the gloss . postdoc e : well don has a script . grad c : yeah . phd g : but , we do n't grad d : you have the gloss form so you always replace it . postdoc e : exactly . grad d : if that 's how what you wan na do . postdoc e : uh - huh . and don knows this , grad c : yeah . postdoc e : and he 's bee he has a glo he has a script that grad c : i replace the `` cuz `` with `` because `` if it 's glossed . phd g : s right . but , if it 's ok . grad c : and phd g : but then there are other glosses that we do n't replace , right ? because postdoc e : yes . and that 's why there 're different tags on the glosses , phd g : ok . so , then it 's fine . postdoc e : on the different on the different types of comments , which we 'll which we 'll see in just a second . grad c : right . postdoc e : so the pronounceable acronyms get underscores , the things in curly brackets are viewed as comments . there 're comments of four types . so this is a good time to introduce that . the four types . w and maybe we 'll expand that grad d : um postdoc e : but the but the comments are , um , of four types mainly right now . one of them is , um , the gloss type we just mentioned . grad d : can ca postdoc e : another type is , um grad d : so a are we done with acronyms ? cuz i had a question on what what this meant . postdoc e : i 'm still doing the overview . i have n't actually gotten here yet . grad d : oh i 'm sorry . postdoc e : ok so , gloss is things like replacing the full form u with the , um , more abbreviated one to the left . uh , then you have if it 's uh , there 're a couple different types of elements that can happen that are n't really properly words , and wo some of them are laughs and breathes , so we have uh that 's prepended with a v a tag of `` voc `` . phd a : whew ! postdoc e : and the non - vocal ones are like door - slams and tappings , and that 's prepended with a no non - vocalization . phd b : so then it just an ending curly brace there , or is there something else in there . postdoc e : oh yeah , so i e this would grad d : a comment , basically . postdoc e : let 's just take one example . phd b : oh , oh , oh . postdoc e : and then the no non - vocalization would be something like a door - slam . they always end . so it 's like they 're paired curly brackets . and then the third type right now , uh , is m things that fall in the category of comments about what 's happening . so it could be something like , you know , `` referring to so - and - so `` , `` talking about such - and - such `` , uh , you know , `` looking at so - and - so `` . phd b : so on the m postdoc e : yeah . phd b : on the middle t so , in the first case that gloss applies to the word to the left . but in the middle two th - it 's not applying to anything , right ? postdoc e : yeah , and this gets substituted here . grad d : they 're impulsive . postdoc e : huh - uh . no , they 're events . grad d : well the `` qual `` can be the `` qual `` is applying to the left . postdoc e : they 're actually they have the status of events . phd b : right , i just meant the middle two ones , yeah . postdoc e : well , and actually , um , it is true that , with respect to `` laugh `` , there 's another one which is `` while laughing `` , grad d : `` while laughing `` . postdoc e : and that is , uh , i i an argument could be made for this tur turning that into a qualitative statement because it 's talking about the thing that preceded it , but at present we have n't been , um , uh , coding the exact scope of laughing , you know , and so to have `` while laughing `` , you know that it happened somewhere in there which could well mean that it occurred separately and following , or , you know , including some of the utterances to the left . have n't been awfully precise about that , but i have here , now we 're about to get to the to this now , i have frequencies . so you 'll see how often these different things occur . but , um , uh , the very front page deals with this , uh , final c pa uh , uh , aspect of the standardization which has to do with the spoken forms like `` mm - hmm `` and `` mm - hmm `` and `` ha `` and `` uh - uh `` and all these different types . and , um , uh , someone pointed out to me , this might have been chuck , { comment } about , um about how a recognizer , if it 's looking for `` mm - hmmm `` with three m 's , and it 's transcribed with two m 's , that it might uh , that it might increase the error rate which is which would really be a shame because um , i p i personally w would not be able to make a claim that those are dr dramatically different items . so , right now i 've standardized across all the existing data with these spoken forms . grad d : oh good . </s>
<s> what were the main topics ? </s> grad a : ok , we 're recording . professor f : we can say the word `` zero `` all we want , phd g : i 'm doing some professor f : but just phd g : square brackets , coffee sipping , square brackets . phd b : that 's not allowed , i think . postdoc c : cur - curly brackets . grad e : is that voiced or unvoiced ? grad a : curly brackets . phd b : curly brackets . professor f : curly brackets . grad a : right . phd b : oops . professor f : well , correction for transcribers . phd g : mmm ! { comment } gar - darn ! professor f : yeah . postdoc c : channel two . grad a : do we use square brackets for anything ? postdoc c : yeah . uh grad e : these poor transcribers . postdoc c : not ri not right now . i mean no . phd d : there 's gon na be some zeros from this morning 's meeting because i noticed that barry , i think maybe you turned your mike off before the digits were oh , was it during digits ? oh , so it does n't matter . professor f : yeah . grad a : it 's still not a good idea . phd b : so it 's not it 's not that bad if it 's at the end , but it 's in the beginning , it 's bad . phd d : yeah . yeah . grad a : yeah , you wan na you wan na keep them on so you get good noise noise floors , through the whole meeting . postdoc c : that 's interesting . hmm . professor f : uh , i probably just should have left it on . yeah i did have to run , but grad e : is there any way to change that in the software ? grad a : change what in the software ? grad e : where like you just do n't like if you if it starts catching zeros , like in the driver or something in the card , or somewhere in the hardware where if you start seeing zeros on w across one channel , you just add some random , @ @ { comment } noise floor like a small noise floor . grad a : i mean certainly we could do that , but i do n't think that 's a good idea . we can do that in post - processing if if the application needs it . grad e : yeah . phd b : manual post - processing . professor f : well , i u i actually do n't know what the default { comment } is anymore as to how we 're using the the front - end stuff but for for when we use the icsi front - end , grad a : as an argument . professor f : but um , there is an there is an o an option in in rasta , which , um , in when i first put it in , uh , back in the days when i actually wrote things , uh , i did actually put in a random bit or so that was in it , but then i realized that putting in a random bit was equivalent to adding uh adding flat spectrum , grad e : right . professor f : and it was a lot faster to just add a constant to the to the spectrum . so then i just started doing that grad e : mmm . ok . professor f : instead of calling `` rand `` { comment } or something , grad e : right . professor f : so . so it d it does that . gee ! here we all are ! grad a : uh , so the only agenda items were jane was jane wanted to talk about some of the ibm transcription process . professor f : there 's an agenda ? grad a : i sort of condensed the three things you said into that . and then just i only have like , this afternoon and maybe tomorrow morning to get anything done before i go to japan for ten days . so if there 's anything that n absolutely , desperately needs to be done , you should let me know now . professor f : uh , and you just sent off a eurospeech paper , so . phd g : right . i hope they accept it . professor f : right . phd g : i mean , i both actu as as a submission and you know , as a paper . um but grad a : well yeah , you sent it in late . professor f : yeah , i guess you first you have to do the first one , grad a : yeah . professor f : and then yeah . phd g : we actually exceeded the delayed deadline by o another day , so . phd b : oops . professor f : oh they they had some extension that they announced or something ? phd g : well yeah . liz had sent them a note saying `` could we please have another `` { comment } i do n't know , `` three days `` or something , and they said yes . phd d : and then she said `` did i say three ? i meant four . `` grad a : that was the other thing uh , uh , dave gelbart sent me email , i think he sent it to you too , { comment } that um , there 's a special topic , section in si in eurospeech on new , corp corpors corpora . and it 's not due until like may fifteenth . professor f : oh this is n't the aurora one ? it 's another one ? grad a : it 's a different one . phd b : no it 's yeah . yeah . grad a : and uh , phd b : i got this mail from grad a : i s forwarded it to jane as i thought being the most relevant person . um so , i thought it was highly relevant postdoc c : yeah i 'm professor f : that 's grad a : have you did you look at the url ? postdoc c : yeah . i think so too . um , i have n't gotten over to there yet , grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc c : but what our discussion yesterday , i really i i wan na submit one . phd b : was this smartkom message ? i think christoph draxler sent this , postdoc c : yeah . and , you offered to to join me , if you want me to . grad a : i 'll help , phd b : yeah . grad a : but obviously i ca n't , really do , most of it , postdoc c : yeah . yeah , that 's right . phd g : i think several people sent this , phd b : yeah . postdoc c : uh - huh . phd g : yeah . grad a : but any any help you need i can certainly provide . professor f : well , phd g : yeah . professor f : that 's that 's a great idea . phd g : well there there were some interesting results in this paper , though . for instance that morgan uh , accounted for fifty - six percent of the robustness meetings in terms of number of words . postdoc c : in in terms of what ? in term phd g : number of words . postdoc c : one ? wow ! ok . grad a : that 's just cuz he talks really fast . postdoc c : do you mean , professor f : n no . grad a : i know phd b : oh . short words . postdoc c : because is it partly , eh , c correctly identified words ? or is it or just overall volume ? phd g : no . well , according to the transcripts . grad a : but re well regardless . i think it 's he 's he 's in all of them , postdoc c : oh . ok . professor f : yeah . phd g : i mean , we did n't mention morgan by name grad a : and he talks a lot . phd g : we just grad a : one participant . professor f : well we have now , but phd g : we we we something about grad a : did you identify him as a senior member ? phd g : no , we as identify him as the person dominating the conversation . professor f : well . grad a : yeah . professor f : i mean i get these aarp things , but i 'm not se really senior yet , but but uh , other than that delightful result , what was the rest of the paper about ? phd g : um , well it was about it had three sections professor f : you sent it to me but i have n't seen it yet . phd g : uh three kinds of uh results , if you will . uh , the one was that the just the the amount of overlap grad a : the good , the bad , and the ugly . phd g : um , s in terms of in terms of number of words and also we computed something called a `` spurt `` , which is essentially a stretch of speech with uh , no pauses exceeding five hundred milliseconds . um , and we computed how many overlapped i uh spurts there were and how many overlapped words there were . um , for four different corpora , the meeting recorder meetings , the robustness meetings switchboard and callhome , and , found and sort of compared the numbers . um , and found that the , uh , you know , as you might expect the meeting recorder meetings had the most overlap uh , but next were switchboard and callhome , which both had roughly the same , almost identical in fact , and the robustness meetings were had the least , so one sort of unexpected result there is that uh two - party telephone conversations have about the same amount of overlap , grad a : i 'm surprised . phd g : sort of in gen you know order of magnitude - wise as , uh as face - to - face meetings with multiple grad a : i have i had better start changing all my slides ! phd g : yeah . also , i in the levinson , the pragmatics book , { comment } in you know , uh , textbook , there 's i found this great quote where he says you know you know , how people it talks about how uh how how people are so good at turn taking , postdoc c : mm - hmm . yeah . yeah . phd g : and so they 're so good that generally , u the overlapped speech does not is less than five percent . postdoc c : oh , that 's interesting . yeah . phd g : so , this is way more than five percent . grad e : did he mean face like face - to - face ? or ? phd g : well , in real conversations , everyday conversations . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd g : it 's s what these conversation analysts have been studying for years and years there . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd b : but postdoc c : well , of course , no , it does n't necessarily go against what he said , cuz he said `` generally speaking `` . in order to to go against that kind of a claim you 'd have to big canvassing . phd b : and in f phd g : well , he he made a claim grad a : well phd g : well phd b : but professor f : yeah , we we have pretty limited sample here . phd b : five percent of time or five percent of what ? grad a : yeah , i was gon na ask that too . postdoc c : yeah . phd b : yeah . postdoc c : exactly . phd g : well it 's time . phd b : yeah , so postdoc c : it 's i it 's not against his conclusion , phd g : so but still but still u postdoc c : it just says that it 's a bi bell curve , and that , you have something that has a nice range , in your sampling . phd g : yeah . so there are slight there are differences in how you measure it , but still it 's you know , the difference between um between that number and what we have in meetings , which is more like , you know , close to in meetings like these , uh you know , close to twenty percent . postdoc c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor f : but what was it like , say , in the robustness meeting , for instance ? phd g : that grad a : but phd g : robustness meeting ? it was about half of the r so , in terms of number of words , it 's like seventeen or eigh eighteen percent for the meeting recorder meetings and about half that for , uh , the robustness . professor f : maybe ten percent ? grad a : but i do n't know if that 's really a fair way of comparing between , multi - party , conversations and two - party conversations . yeah . i i i do n't know . phd b : then then then you have to grad a : i mean that 's just something phd d : yeah , i just wonder if you have to normalize by the numbers of speakers or something . postdoc c : yeah . phd b : then yeah , then normalize by by something like that , postdoc c : yeah , that 's a good point . phd g : well , we did n't get to look at that , phd b : yeah . postdoc c : yeah . phd g : but this obvious thing to see if if there 's a dependence on the number of uh participants . postdoc c : good idea . grad a : i mean i bet there 's a weak dependence . i 'm sure it 's it 's not a real strong one . phd b : yeah . phd g : right . grad a : right ? because you phd d : cuz not everybody talks . grad a : right . phd g : right . phd d : yeah . grad a : you have a lot of a lot of two - party , subsets within the meeting . phd g : right . postdoc c : uh - huh . grad a : well regardless it 's an interesting result regardless . phd g : so right . postdoc c : yes , that 's right . phd g : and and and then and we also d computed this both with and without backchannels , postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd g : so you might think that backchannels have a special status because they 're essentially just grad a : uh - huh . so , did we all said `` uh - huh `` and nodded at the same time , phd g : r right . but , even if you take out all the backchannels so basically you treat backchannels l as nonspeech , as pauses , grad a : mm - hmm . professor f : mm - hmm . phd g : you still have significant overlap . you know , it goes down from maybe for switchboard it goes down from i do n't know f um { comment } i do n't know f fourteen percent of the words to maybe uh i do n't know , eleven percent or something it 's it 's not a dramatic change , grad a : mm - hmm . phd g : so it 's anyway , so it 's uh that was that was one set of results , and then the second one was just basically the the stuff we had in the in the hlt paper on how overlaps effect the recognition performance . grad a : nope . right . professor f : mm - hmm . phd g : and we rescored things um , a little bit more carefully . we also fixed the transcripts in in numerous ways . uh , but mostly we added one one number , which was what if you uh , basically score ignoring all so so the the conjecture from the hlt results was that most of the added recognition error is from insertions due to background speech . so , we scored all the recognition results , uh , in such a way that the uh grad a : oh by the way , who 's on channel four ? you 're getting a lot of breath . phd b : yeah . i j was just wondering . grad e : that 's phd b : yeah . grad e : that 's me . phd g : uh , well don 's been working hard . grad e : that 's right . phd g : ok , so so if you have the foreground speaker speaking here , and then there 's some background speech , may be overlapping it somehow , um , and this is the time bin that we used , then of course you 're gon na get insertion errors here and here . grad a : right . phd g : right ? so we scored everything , and i must say the nist scoring tools are pretty nice for this , where you just basically ignore everything outside of the , uh , region that was deemed to be foreground speech . and where that was we had to use the t forced alignment , uh , results from s for so that 's somewhat that 's somewhat subject to error , but still we we uh , don did some ha hand - checking and and we think that based on that , we think that the results are you know , valid , although of course , some error is gon na be in there . but basically what we found is after we take out these regions so we only score the regions that were certified as foreground speech , { comment } the recognition error went down to almost uh , the level of the non - overlapped speech . so that means that even if you do have background speech , if you can somehow separate out or find where it is , uh , the recognizer does a good job , grad a : that 's great . phd b : yeah . phd g : even though there is this back grad a : yeah , i guess that does n't surprise me , because , with the close - talking mikes , the the signal will be so much stronger . phd g : right . right . professor f : mm - hmm . phd g : mm - hmm . um , grad a : what what sort of normalization do you do ? phd g : so uh , well , we just @ @ { comment } we do u you know , vit grad a : i mean in you recognizer , in the sri recognizer . phd g : well , we do uh , vtl vocal tract length normalization , w and we uh you know , we we uh , make all the features have zero mean and unit variance . grad a : over an entire utterance ? professor f : and grad a : or windowed ? phd g : over over the entire c over the entire channel . phd b : do n't train phd g : over the but you know . um , now we did n't re - align the recognizer for this . we just took the old so this is actually a sub - optimal way of doing it , grad a : right . professor f : right . phd g : right ? so we took the old recognition output and we just scored it differently . so the recognizer did n't have the benefit of knowing where the foreground speech a start professor f : were you including the the lapel in this ? and did the did did the la did the the problems with the lapel go away also ? or phd g : um , it yeah . professor f : fray for for insertions ? phd g : it u not per i mean , not completely , but yes , professor f : less so . phd g : dramatically . so we have to um professor f : i mean , you still phd g : well i should bring the should bring the table with results . maybe we can look at it monday . professor f : i would presume that you still would have somewhat higher error with the lapel for insertions than phd g : yes . it 's it 's professor f : yeah . phd g : yes . yeah . professor f : cuz again , looking forward to the non - close miked case , i think that we s still phd g : mm - hmm . grad a : i 'm not looking forward to it . professor f : i it 's the high signal - to - noise ratio phd g : right . professor f : here that that helps you . phd g : u s right . so so that was number that was the second set of uh , the second section . and then , the third thing was , we looked at , uh , what we call `` interrupts `` , although that 's that may be a misnomer , but basically we looked at cases where uh , so we we used the punctuation from the original transcripts and we inferred the beginnings and ends of sentences . so , you know postdoc c : di - did you use upper - lower case also , or not ? phd g : um postdoc c : u upper lower case or no ? phd g : no , we only used , you know , uh periods , uh , question marks and exclamation . and we know that there 's th that 's not a very g i mean , we miss a lot of them , postdoc c : yeah . that 's ok but phd g : but but it 's f i i postdoc c : comma also or not ? phd g : no commas . no . and then we looked at locations where , uh , if you have overlapping speech and someone else starts a sentence , you know , where do these where do other people start their turns not turns really , but you know , sentences , um so we only looked at cases where there was a foreground speaker and then at the to at the so the the foreground speaker started into their sentence and then someone else started later . phd b : somewhere in between the start and the end ? phd g : ok ? and so what sorry ? phd b : somewhere in between the start and the end of the foreground ? phd g : yes . uh , so that such that there was overlap between the two sentences . phd b : yeah . phd g : so , the the question was how can we what can we say about the places where the second or or actually , several second speakers , um start their `` interrupts `` , as we call them . phd d : three words from the end . grad a : at pause boundaries . phd g : w and we looked at this in terms of um grad a : on t - closures , only . phd g : so so we had we had um u to for for the purposes of this analysis , we tagged the word sequences , and and we time - aligned them . um , and we considered it interrupt if it occurred in the middle of a word , we basically you know , considered that to be a interrupt as if it were at at the beginning of the word . so that , if any part of the word was overlapped , it was considered an interrupted word . professor f : mm - hmm . phd g : and then we looked at the the locatio the , um , you know , the features that the tags because we had tagged these word strings , { comment } um , that that occurred right before these these uh , interrupt locations . phd b : tag by uh phd g : and the tags we looked at are the spurt tag , which basically says or actually sorry . end of spurt . so whether there was a pause essentially here , because spurts are a defined as being you know , five hundred milliseconds or longer pauses , and then we had things like discourse markers , uh , backchannels , uh , disfluencies . um , uh , filled pauses so disfluen the d 's are for , um , the interruption points of a disfluency , so , where you hesitate , or where you start the repair there . uh , what else do we had . uh , repeated you know , repeated words is another of that kind of disfluencies and so forth . so we had both the beginnings and ends of these uh so , the end of a filled pause and the end of a discourse marker . and we just eyeballed i mean we did n't really hand - tag all of these things . we just looked at the distribution of words , and so every `` so yeah `` , and `` ok `` , uh , and `` uh - huh `` were were the were deemed to be backchannels and `` wow `` and `` so `` and uh `` right `` , uh were um not `` right `` . `` right `` is a backchannel . but so , we sort of just based on the lexical um , identity of the words , we we tagged them as one of these things . and of course the d the interruption points we got from the original transcripts . so , and then we looked at the disti so we looked at the distribution of these different kinds of tags , overall uh , and and and particularly at the interruption points . and uh , we found that there is a marked difference so that for instance after so at the end after a discourse marker or after backchannel or after filled pause , you 're much more likely to be interrupted than before . ok ? and also of course after spurt ends , which means basically in p inside pauses . so pauses are always an opportunity for so we have this little histogram which shows these distributions and , um , phd d : i wonder phd g : you know , it 's it 's it 's not no big surprises , but it is sort of interesting from grad a : it 's nice to actually measure it though . phd g : yeah . phd d : i wonder about the cause and effect there . in other words uh if you were n't going to pause you you will because you 're g being interrupted . phd g : well we 're ne phd d : uh phd g : right . there 's no statement about cause and effect . phd d : yeah , right . no , no , no . phd g : this is just a statistical correlation , phd d : right , i i see . yeah . phd g : yeah . professor f : but he yeah , he 's he 's right , y i mean maybe you were n't intending to pause at all , but you were intending to stop for fifty - seven milliseconds , phd g : right . professor f : but then chuck came in phd g : right . phd d : yeah . professor f : and so you paused for a second phd g : right . anyway . { comment } so , professor f : or more . phd g : uh , and that was basically it . and and we so we wrote this and then , we found we were at six pages , and then we started cutting furiously phd b : oops . phd g : and threw out half of the material again , and uh played with the latex stuff and grad a : made the font smaller and the narrows longer . phd g : uh , and until it fi phd b : font smaller , yeah . phd g : no , no . w well , d you could n't really make everything smaller phd b : put the abstract end . phd g : but we s we put oh , i i grad a : took out white space . phd g : you know the the gap between the two columns is like ten millimeters , phd b : yeah . phd g : so i d shrunk it to eight millimeters and that helped some . and stuff like that . phd d : was n't there was n't there some result , andreas professor f : yeah phd d : i i thought maybe liz presented this at some conference a while ago about uh , backchannels phd g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : uh , and that they tend to happen when uh the pitch drops . you know you get a falling pitch . and so that 's when people tend to backchannel . phd g : yeah . well phd d : uh - i i do you rem phd g : y we did n't talk about , uh , prosodic , uh , properties at all , phd d : right . right . but phd g : although that 's i i take it that 's something that uh don will will look at grad e : yeah , we 're gon na be looking at that . phd g : now that we have the data and we have the alignment , so . this is purely based on you know the words phd d : mm - hmm . phd g : and postdoc c : i have a reference for that though . uh - huh . phd d : oh you do . phd g : yeah . phd d : so am i recalling correctly ? phd g : anyway , so . postdoc c : well , i did n't know about liz 's finding on that , phd d : about postdoc c : but i know of another paper that talks about something phd d : uh - huh . postdoc c : that grad e : i 'd like to see that reference too . phd d : it made me think about a cool little device that could be built to uh to handle those people that call you on the phone and just like to talk and talk and talk . and you just have this little detector that listens for these drops in pitch and gives them the backchannel . and so then you hook that to the phone and go off grad a : yeah . uh - huh . phd d : and do the do whatever you r wan na do , phd g : oh yeah . well phd d : while that thing keeps them busy . phd g : there 's actually uh there 's this a former student of here from berkeley , nigel nigel ward . phd d : uh - huh . sure . phd g : do you know him ? phd d : yeah . phd g : he did a system uh , in he he lives in japan now , and he did this backchanneling , automatic backchanneling system . professor f : right . phd g : it 's a very so , exactly what you describe , but for japanese . and it 's apparently for japa - in japanese it 's really important that you backchannel . it 's really impolite if you do n't , and so . professor f : huh . actually for a lot of these people i think you could just sort of backchannel continuously and it would pretty much be fine . phd d : it would n't matter ? yeah . grad e : yeah . that 's w that 's what i do . phd d : random intervals . grad a : there was there was of course a monty python sketch with that . where the barber who was afraid of scissors was playing a a tape of clipping sounds , and saying `` uh - huh `` , `` yeah `` , `` how about them sports teams ? `` phd g : anyway . so the paper 's on - line and y i i think i uh i cc ' ed a message to meeting recorder with the url so you can get it . professor f : yeah . grad a : printed it out , have n't read it yet . professor f : yeah . phd g : um , uh one more thing . so i i 'm actually about to send brian kingbury an email saying where he can find the the s the m the material he wanted for the s for the speech recognition experiment , so but i have n't sent it out yet because actually my desktop locked up , like i ca n't type anything . uh b so if there 's any suggestions you have for that i was just gon na send him the phd d : is it the same directory that you had suggested ? phd g : i made a directory . i called it um postdoc c : he still has his unix account here , you know . phd g : well this is n't postdoc c : yeah . phd g : he does ? postdoc c : and he and he 's phd g : yeah but but but he has to postdoc c : i 'd hafta add him to meeting recorder , i guess , phd g : he prefe he said he would prefer ftp postdoc c : but ok . phd g : and also , um , the other person that wants it there is one person at sri who wants to look at the um , you know , the uh the data we have so far , and so i figured that ftp is the best approach . so what i did is i um @ @ { comment } i made a n new directory after chuck said that would c that was gon na be a good thing . uh , so it 's `` ftp pub grad a : pub real . phd g : real `` exactly . mtgc what is it again ? cr grad a : ask dan ellis . professor f : u r d rdr , yeah . phd g : or yeah . right ? the same the same as the mailing list , professor f : yeah , phd g : and professor f : the no vowels . phd g : yeah . um , and then under there um actually oh and this directory , is not readable . it 's only uh , accessible . so , in other words , to access anything under there , you have to be told what the name is . grad a : right . phd g : so that 's sort of a g quick and dirty way of doing access control . professor f : mm - hmm . phd g : so uh , and the directory for this i call it i `` asr zero point one `` because it 's sort of meant for recognition . professor f : so anyone who hears this meeting now knows the grad a : beta ? phd g : and then then in there i have a file that lists all the other files , so that someone can get that file and then know the file names and therefore download them . if you do n't know the file names you ca n't professor f : is that a dash or a dot in there ? phd g : i mean you can grad a : do n't do n't do n't say . phd g : dash . anyway . so all i all i was gon na do there was stick the the transcripts after we the way that we munged them for scoring , because that 's what he cares about , and um , and also and then the the waveforms that don segmented . i mean , just basically tar them all up f i mean w for each meeting i tar them all into one tar file and g - zip them and stick them there . grad a : i uh , put digits in my own home directory home ftp directory , phd g : and so . grad a : but i 'll probably move them there as well . phd g : oh , ok . phd d : so we could point mari to this also for her march o - one request ? phd g : ok . yeah . march o - one . phd d : or you n remember she was phd g : oh she wanted that also ? phd d : well she was saying that it would be nice if we had they had a or was she talking yeah . she was saying it would be nice if they had eh the same set , so that when they did experiments they could compare . phd g : right , but they do n't have a recognizer even . phd d : yeah . grad e : um i phd g : but yeah , we can send i can cc mari on this so that she knows phd d : yeah . so , for the thing that postdoc c : that 's good . phd d : we need to give brian the beeps file , phd g : right . phd d : so i was gon na probably put it grad a : we can put it in the same place . just put in another directory . phd d : yeah , it i 'll make another directory . phd g : well , make ano make another directory . phd d : yeah . exactly . phd g : you do n't n m phd d : yeah . phd g : yeah . grad e : and , andreas , um , sampled ? phd g : yeah . they are ? grad e : i think so . yeah . um , so either we should regenerate the original versions , { comment } or um , we should just make a note of it . phd g : ok . oh . beca - well ok , because in one directory there 's two versions . grad e : yeah , that 's the first meeting i cut both versions . just to check which w if there is a significant difference . phd g : ok . and so i but ok so but for the other meetings it 's the downsampled version that you have . grad e : they 're all downsampled , yeah . phd g : oh , ok . oh that 's th important to know , ok so we should probably uh give them the non - downsampled versions . grad e : yeah . so phd g : ok . alright , then i 'll hold off on that and i 'll wait for you um grad e : probably by tomorrow i can i 'll send you an email . phd g : ok . alright . ok . yeah , definitely they should have the full bandwidth version , grad e : yeah , because i mean i i think liz decided to go ahead with the downsampled versions cuz we can there was no s like , r significant difference . phd g : yeah . ok . well , it takes it takes up less disk space , for one thing . grad e : it does take up less disk space , and apparently it did even better than the original than the original versions , phd g : yeah . yeah . grad e : which you know , is just , probably random . phd g : right . yeah , it was a small difference grad e : but , um they probably w want the originals . phd g : but yeah . yeah . ok . ok , good . good that well , it 's a good thing that grad a : ok , i think we 're losing , don and andreas at three - thirty , right ? ok . grad e : hey mon hafta booga . phd g : yeah . professor f : so , that 's why it was good to have andreas , say these things but so , we should probably talk about the ibm transcription process stuff that postdoc c : ok . so , um you know that adam created um , a b a script to generate the beep file ? to then create something to send to ibm . and , um , you you should probably talk about that . but but you were gon na to use the originally transcribed file because i tightened the time bins and that 's also the one that they had already in trying to debug the first stage of this . and uh , my understanding was that , um i have n't i have n't listened to it yet , grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc c : but it sounded very good and and i understand that you guys were going to have a meeting today , before this meeting . grad a : it was just to talk about how to generate it . um , just so that while i 'm gone , you can regenerate it if you decide to do it a different way . so uh , chuck and thilo should , now more or less know how to generate the file postdoc c : excellent . ok . grad a : and , the other thing chuck pointed out is that , um , since this one is hand - marked , there are discourse boundaries . right ? so so when one person is speaking , there 's breaks . postdoc c : mm - hmm . grad a : whereas thilo 's wo n't have that . so what what we 're probably gon na do is just write a script , that if two , chunks are very close to each other on the same channel we 'll just merge them . postdoc c : oh ! ok . ah , interesting . yeah . yeah . oh , sure . yeah , sure . makes sense . grad a : so , uh , and that will get around the problem of , the , you know `` one word beep , one word beep , one word beep , one word beep `` . postdoc c : yeah . ah ! clever . yes . clever . yeah . excellent . phd d : yeah , in fact after our meeting uh , this morning thilo came in and said that um , there could be other differences between the uh already transcribed meeting with the beeps in it and one that has just r been run through his process . postdoc c : and that 's the purpose . yeah . phd d : so tomorrow , when we go to make the um uh , chunked file for ibm , we 're going to actually compare the two . so he 's gon na run his process on that same meeting , postdoc c : great idea ! phd d : and then we 're gon na do the beep - ify on both , and listen to them and see if we notice any real differences . phd g : beep - ify ! postdoc c : ok , now one thing that prevented us from apply you you from applying exactly . the training so that is the training meeting . ok . phd d : yeah , w and we know that . wel - uh we just wan na if if there 're any major differences between doing it on the hand postdoc c : uh - huh . oh , interesting . ah ! ok . interesting idea . great . phd g : so this training meeting , uh w un is that uh some data where we have uh very um , you know , accurate time marks ? for postdoc c : i went back and hand - marked the ba the bins , i ment i mentioned that last week . phd g : ok , yeah . phd d : but the but there 's yeah , but there is this one issue with them in that there 're there are time boundaries in there that occur in the middle of speech . phd g : because phd d : so like when we went t to um when i was listening to the original file that adam had , it 's like you you hear a word then you hear a beep and then you hear the continuation of what is the same sentence . grad a : that 's on the other channel . that 's because of channel overlap . phd d : well , and and so the th grad a : it 's i phd d : so there are these chunks that look like uh that have uh grad a : i mean that 's not gon na be true of the foreground speaker . that 'll only be if it 's the background speaker . phd d : right . so you 'll you 'll have a chunk of , you know , channel a which starts at zero and ends at ten , and then the same channel starting at eleven , ending at fifteen , and then again , starting at sixteen , ending at twenty . right , so that 's three chunks where actually we w can just make one chunk out of that which is a , zero , twenty . phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc c : yeah . grad a : that 's what i just said , postdoc c : sure . sure . grad a : yeah . phd d : yeah . so i just wanted to make sure that it was clear . postdoc c : yeah , i thought that was phd d : so if you were to use these , you have to be careful not to pull out these individual postdoc c : yeah . phd g : oh ! i mean it right , i mean w i mean what i would i was interested in is having a se having time marks for the beginnings and ends of speech by each speaker . grad a : well , that 's definitely a problem . phd g : uh , because we could use that to fine tune our alignment process grad a : battery . phd d : yeah . phd g : to make it more accurate . phd b : battery ? phd d : mm - hmm . phd g : so uh , it i do n't care that you know , there 's actually abutting segments that we have to join together . that 's fine . but what we do care about is that the beginnings and ends um are actually close to the speech inside of that phd d : yeah , i think jane tightened these up by hand . phd g : uh postdoc c : yeah . phd g : ok , so what is the sort of how tight are they ? professor f : uh , it looks much better . phd b : yeah . looks good . postdoc c : they were , um , reasonably tight , but not excruciatingly tight . that would 've taken more time . i just wanted to get it so tha so that if you have like `` yeah `` { comment } in a swimming in a big bin , then it 's phd g : no , no ! i don grad a : let me make a note on yours . phd g : actually i i phd b : yeah . phd g : i it 's f that 's fine because we do n't want to th that 's perfectly fine . in fact it 's good . you always want to have a little bit of pause or nonspeech around the speech , say for recognition purposes . uh , but just just u w you know get an id i just wanted to have an idea of the of how much extra you allowed um so that i can interpret the numbers if i compared that with a forced alignment segmentation . postdoc c : i ca n't answer that , but but my main goal was um , in these areas where you have a three - way overlap and one of the overlaps involves `` yeah `` , and it 's swimming in this huge bin , i wanted to get it so that it was clo more closely localized . phd g : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . right . but are we talking about , i do n't know , a tenth of a second ? a ? you know ? how how much how much extra would you allow at most postdoc c : i i wanted to i wanted it to be able to l he be heard normally , phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc c : so that if you if you play back that bin and have it in the mode where it stops at the boundary , it sounds like a normal word . it does n't sound like the person i it sounds normal . it 's as if the person could 've stopped there . phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc c : and it would n't have been an awkward place to stop . now sometimes you know , it 's these are involved in places where there was no time . and so , there would n't be a gap afterwards because i mean some cases , there 're some people um , who who have very long segments of discourse where , you know , they 'll they 'll breath and then i put a break . phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc c : but other than that , it 's really pretty continuous and this includes things like going from one sentence into the u one utterance into the next , one sentence into the next , um , w without really stopping . i mean i they , i you know in writing you have this two spaces and a big gap phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc c : you know . phd g : right . postdoc c : but but uh i some people are planning and , you know , i mean , a lot we always are planning what we 're going to say next . but uh , in which case , the gap between these two complete syntactic units , um , which of course n spoken things are not always complete syntactically , but but it would be a shorter p shorter break than maybe you might like . phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc c : but the goal there was to not have the text be so so crudely parsed in a time bin . i mean , because from a discourse m purpose it 's it 's more it 's more useful to be able to see and also you know , from a speech recognition purpose my impression is that if you have too long a unit , it 's it does n't help you very much either , cuz of the memory . phd g : well , yeah . that 's fine . postdoc c : so , that means that the amount of time after something is variable depending partly on context , but my general goal when there was sufficient space , room , pause after it to have it be kind of a natural feeling gap . which i c i do n't know what it would be quantified as . you know , wally chafe says that um , in producing narratives , the spurts that people use tend to be , uh , that the the what would be a pause might be something like two two seconds . and um , that would be , you know one speaker . the discourse the people who look at turn taking often do use phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc c : i was interested that you chose uh , you know um , { comment } the you know that you use cuz i think that 's a unit that would be more consistent with sociolinguistics . yeah . phd g : well we chose um , you know , half a second because if if you go much larger , you have a y you know , your your statement about how much overlap there is becomes less , um , precise , postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd g : because you include more of actual pause time into what you consider overlap speech . um , so , it 's sort of a compromise , phd b : yeah . { comment } yeah , i also used i think something around zero point five seconds for the speech - nonspeech detector phd g : and it 's also based i mean liz suggested that value based on the distribution of pause times that you see in switchboard and and other corpora . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd g : um so phd b : for the minimum silence length . phd g : mm - hmm . i see . yeah . postdoc c : mm - hmm . in any case , this this uh , meeting that i hand i i hand - adjusted two of them i mentioned before , phd g : mm - hmm . postdoc c : and i sent i sent email , so phd g : so so at some point we will try to fine - tune our forced alignment postdoc c : and i sent the { comment } path . phd g : maybe using those as references because you know , what you would do is you would play with different parameters . and to get an object you need an objective measure of how closely you can align the models to the actual speech . and that 's where your your data would be very important to have . so , i will um phd b : yeah and hopefully the new meetings which will start from the channelized version will will have better time boundaries and alignments . phd g : mm - hmm . right . postdoc c : but i like this idea of uh , for our purposes for the for the ibm preparation , uh , n having these joined together , phd b : yeah . yeah . postdoc c : and uh it makes a lot of sense . and in terms of transcription , it would be easy to do it that way . phd g : yeah . postdoc c : the way that they have with the longer units , phd g : yeah . postdoc c : not having to fuss with adding these units at this time . phd b : yeah . whi - which could have one drawback . if there is uh a backchannel in between those three things , phd g : right . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd b : the the n the backchannel will will occur at the end of of those three . and and in in the in the previous version where in the n which is used now , there , the backchannel would would be in - between there somewhere , so . postdoc c : i see . phd b : that would be more natural postdoc c : yeah . well , phd b : but postdoc c : that 's that 's right , but you know , thi this brings me to the other f stage of this which i discussed with you earlier today , phd b : yeah . postdoc c : which is the second stage is um , w what to do in terms of the transcribers adjustment of these data . i discussed this with you too . um , the tr so the idea initially was , we would get uh , for the new meetings , so the e edu meetings , that thilo ha has now presegmented all of them for us , on a channel by channel basis . and um , so , i 've assigned i 've i 've assigned them to our transcribers and um , so far i 've discussed it with one , with uh and i had a about an hour discussion with her about this yesterday , we went through uh edu - one , at some extent . and it occurred to me that um that basically what we have in this kind of a format is you could consider it as a staggered mixed file , we had some discussion over the weekend a about at at this other meeting that we were all a at um , about whether the tran the ibm transcribers should hear a single channel audio , or a mixed channel audio . and um , in in a way , by by having this this chunk and then the backchannel after it , it 's like a stagal staggered mixed channel . and um , it occurred to me in my discussion with her yesterday that um , um , the the the maximal gain , it 's from the ibm people , may be in long stretches of connected speech . so it 's basically a whole bunch of words which they can really do , because of the continuity within that person 's turn . so , what i 'm thinking , and it may be that not all meetings will be good for this , { comment } but but what i 'm thinking is that in the edu meetings , they tend to be driven by a couple of dominant speakers . and , if the chunked files focused on the dominant speakers , then , when when it got s patched together when it comes back from ibm , we can add the backchannels . it seems to me that um , you know , the backchannels per - se would n't be so hard , but then there 's this question of the time @ @ { comment } uh , marking , and whether the beeps would be uh y y y and i 'm not exactly sure how that how that would work with the with the backchannels . and , so um and certainly things that are intrusions of multiple words , taken out of context and displaced in time from where they occurred , that would be hard . so , m my thought is i i 'm having this transcriber go through the edu - one meeting , and indicate a start time f for each dominant speaker , endpoi end time for each dominant speaker , and the idea that these units would be generated for the dominant speakers , and maybe not for the other channels . grad a : yeah the only , um , disadvantage of that is , then it 's hard to use an automatic method to do that . the advantage is that it 's probably faster to do that than it is to use the automated method and correct it . so . postdoc c : well , it grad a : we 'll just have to see . postdoc c : ok . i think i i think um , you know , the original plan was that the transcriber would adjust the t the boundaries , and all that for all the channels but , you know , that is so time - consuming , and since we have a bottleneck here , we want to get ibm things that are usable s as soon as possible , then this seemed to me it 'd be a way of gett to get them a flood of data , which would be useful when it comes back to us . and um grad a : yeah . postdoc c : oh also , at the same time she when she goes through this , she 'll be uh if there 's anything that was encoded as a pause , but really has something transcribable in it , then she 's going to uh , make a mark w uh , so you know , so that that bin would be marked as it as double dots and she 'll just add an s . and in the other in the other case , if it 's marked as speech , and really there 's nothing transcribable in it , then she 's going to put a s dash , and i 'll go through and it and um , you know , with a with a substitution command , get it so that it 's clear that those are the other category . i 'll just , you know , recode them . but um , um , the transcribable events that um , i 'm considering in this , uh , continue to be laugh , as well as speech , and cough and things like that , so i 'm not stripping out anything , just just you know , being very lenient in what 's considered speech . yeah ? phd d : jane ? in terms of the this new procedure you 're suggesting , um , u what is the grad a : it 's not that different . phd d : so i 'm a little confused , because how do we know where to put beeps ? is it i d y is it postdoc c : oh , ok . grad a : transcriber will do it . postdoc c : so what it what it what it involves is is really a s uh , uh , the original pr procedure , but only applied to uh , a certain strategically chosen s aspect of the data . grad a : we pick the easy parts of the data basically , postdoc c : so grad a : and transcriber marks it by hand . postdoc c : you got it . grad a : and because phd d : but after we 've done thilo 's thing . grad a : oh , after . oh , ok , i did n't i did n't understand that . postdoc c : oh yeah ! phd b : so , i 'm @ @ now i 'm confused . postdoc c : ok . we start with your presegmented version phd g : ok , and i 'm leaving . grad e : yeah , i have to go as well . phd g : so , um grad a : ok , leave the mikes on , and just put them on the table . grad e : ok . thanks . postdoc c : we start with the presegmented version grad a : let me mark you as no digits . phd b : you start with the presegmentation , r yeah ? postdoc c : yeah . and then um , the transcriber , instead of going painstakingly through all the channels and moving the boundaries around , and deciding if it 's speech or not , but not transcribing anything . ok ? instead of doing that , which was our original plan , the tra they focus on the dominant speaker phd d : mm - hmm . they just do that on the main channels . postdoc c : yeah . so what they do is they identify who 's the di dominant speaker , and when the speaker starts . phd b : yeah ? ok . postdoc c : so i mean , you 're still gon na phd b : and you just postdoc c : so we 're it 's based on your se presegmentation , that 's the basic thing . phd b : and you just use the s the segments of the dominant speaker then ? for for sending to to ibm or ? postdoc c : yeah . exactly . phd d : so , now jane , my question is when they 're all done adjusting the w time boundaries for the dominant speaker , { comment } have they then also erased the time boundaries for the other ones ? postdoc c : mm - hmm . uh no . no , no . huh - uh . s phd d : so how will we know who phd b : yeah . postdoc c : that 's that 's why she 's notating the start and end points of the dominant speakers . so , on a you know , so i in edu - one , i as far as i listened to it , you start off with a a s section by jerry . so jerry starts at minute so - and - so , and goes until minute so - and - so . and then mark paskin comes in . and he starts at minute such - and - such , and goes on till minute so - and - so . ok . and then meanwhile , she 's listening to both of these guys ' channels , determining if there 're any cases of misclassification of speech as nothing , and nothing as speech , phd d : mm - hmm . ok . postdoc c : and a and adding a tag if that happens . phd d : so she does the adjustments on those guys ? postdoc c : but you know , i wanted to say , his segmentation is so good , that um , the part that i listened to with her yesterday did n't need any adjustments of the bins . phd b : on that meeting . phd d : mm - hmm . postdoc c : so far we have n't . so this is not gon na be a major part of the process , at least least not in not on ones that that really phd d : so if you do n't have to adjust the bins , why not just do what it for all the channels ? postdoc c : mm - hmm ? phd d : why not just throw all the channels to ibm ? postdoc c : well there 's the question o of whether well , ok . she i it 's a question of how much time we want our transcriber to invest here when she 's gon na have to invest that when it comes back from ibm anyway . phd d : mm - hmm . postdoc c : so if it 's only inserting `` mm - hmm `` s here and there , then , would n't that be something that would be just as efficient to do at this end , instead of having it go through i b m , then be patched together , then be double checked here . phd d : mm - hmm . right . phd b : yeah . but but then we could just use the the output of the detector , and do the beeping on it , and send it to i b phd d : without having her check anything . phd b : yeah . professor f : right . postdoc c : well , i guess grad a : i think we just we just have to listen to it and see how good they are . phd b : for some meetings , i 'm i 'm sure it i n postdoc c : i 'm i 'm open to that , it was professor f : yeah , if it 's working well , phd b : that 's and some on some meetings it 's good . professor f : that sounds like a good idea since as you say you have to do stuff with the other end anyway . phd b : yeah . postdoc c : well yea ok , good . i mean the detector , this phd d : yeah , i mean we have to fix it when it comes back anyhow . phd b : yeah . postdoc c : now , you were saying that they they differ in how well they work depending on channel s sys systems and stuff . phd b : yeah . so we should perhaps just select meetings on which the speech - nonspeech detection works well , postdoc c : but edu is great . phd b : and just use , those meetings to to to send to ibm and , do the other ones . grad a : release to begin with . postdoc c : how interesting . you know professor f : what 's the problem the l i forget . is the problem the lapel , or or phd b : uh , it really depends . um , my my my impression is that it 's better for meetings with fewer speakers , and it 's better for for meetings where nobody is breathing . yeah , professor f : the dead meetings . phd b : get that 's it . phd d : so in fact this might suggest an alternative sort of a a c a hybrid between these two things . grad a : no , the undead meeting , yeah . postdoc c : yeah . yeah ? phd d : so the the one suggestion is you know we we run thilo 's thing and then we have somebody go and adjust all the time boundaries phd b : yeah . postdoc c : yeah ? phd d : and we send it to ibm . the other one is we just run his thing and send it to ibm . phd b : yeah . phd d : there 's a a another possibility if we find that there are some problems , phd b : yeah . yeah . phd d : and that is if we go ahead and we just run his , and we generate the beeps file , then we have somebody listen beeps file . phd b : yeah . and erase phd d : and they listen to each section and say `` yes , no `` whether that section is phd b : yeah . postdoc c : is intelligible . phd d : i i intelligible or not . and it just you know , there 's a little interface which will for all the `` yes `` - es it then that will be the final beep file . phd b : yeah . grad a : blech . postdoc c : that 's interesting ! cuz that 's that 's directly related to the e end task . grad a : stress test . phd d : mm - hmm . postdoc c : how interesting ! phd d : yeah . i mean it would n't be that much fun for a transcriber to sit there , hear it , beep , yes or no . phd b : nope . professor f : i i i do n't know . phd d : but it would be quick . professor f : it would be kind of quick but they 're still listening to everything . phd d : but there 's no adjusting . and that 's what 's slow . there 's no adjusting of time boundaries . postdoc c : well , eh , listening does take time too . phd d : yeah . professor f : yeah . i do n't know , i i think i 'm i 'm really tending towards grad a : one and a half times real time . professor f : i mean , what 's the worst that happens ? do the transcribers i mean as long as th on the other end they can say there 's there 's something conventions so that they say `` huh ? `` phd d : yeah . right . they they professor f : and then we can flag those later . phd d : yeah . that 's true . professor f : i i it i phd d : we can just catch it at the catch everything at this side . professor f : yeah . phd d : well maybe that 's the best way to go , postdoc c : how interesting ! phd d : just grad a : i mean it just depends on how postdoc c : well edu phd b : yeah , grad a : sorry , go ahead . postdoc c : so i was gon na say , edu - one is good enough , phd b : yeah . postdoc c : maybe we could include it in this in this set of uh , this stuff we send . phd b : yeah there 's i i think there are some meetings where it would would it 's possible like this . grad a : yeah i i think , we wo n't know until we generate a bunch of beep files automatically , listen to them and see how bad they are . phd b : yeah . yeah . phd d : yeah . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd d : we wo n't be able to s include it with this first thing , grad a : if postdoc c : hmm . oh , ok . phd d : because there 's a part of the process of the beep file which requires knowing the normalization coefficients . postdoc c : oh , i see . phd d : and so a grad a : that 's not hard to do . just it takes you know , it just takes five minutes rather than , taking a second . phd b : yeah . grad a : so . i just hand hard - coded it . phd d : right , except i do n't think that the c the instructions for doing that was in that directory , right ? i i did n't see where you had gener grad a : no , but it 's easy enough to do . phd b : what professor f : but i but i have a phd b : doing the gain ? it 's no problem . adjusting the gain ? phd d : n doing th no , getting the coefficients , for each channel . phd b : yeah , that 's no problem . postdoc c : know what numbers . phd d : ok . so we just run that one grad a : there are lots of ways to do it . phd b : we can do that . grad a : i have one program that 'll do it . you can find other programs . phd b : yeah . i i used it , so . phd d : we just run that phd b : yeah . phd d : j - sound - stat ? ok . professor f : yeah . grad a : minus d , capital d . phd b : yeah . professor f : but but but i i i have another suggestion on that , which is , since , really what this is , is is is trying to in the large , send the right thing to them and there is gon na be this this post - processing step , um , why do n't we check through a bunch of things by sampling it ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor f : right ? in other words , rather than , um , uh , saying we 're gon na listen to everything grad a : i did n't mean listen to everything , i meant , just see if they 're any good . professor f : yeah . so y you do a bunch of meetings , you listen to to a little bit here and there , phd d : yeah . professor f : if it sounds like it 's almost always right and there 's not any big problem you send it to them . phd d : send it to them . phd b : yeah . professor f : and , you know , then they 'll send us back what we w what what they send back to us , postdoc c : oh , that 'd be great . professor f : and we 'll we 'll fix things up and some meetings will cost more time to fix up than others . grad a : we should yeah . phd b : yeah . grad a : and we should just double - check with brian on a few simple conventions on how they should mark things . phd b : sure . phd d : ok . when they when there 's either no speech in there , phd b : yeah . yeah . phd d : or something they do n't understand , postdoc c : yeah . mm - hmm . phd d : things like that . grad a : yeah , cuz @ @ uh what i had originally said to brian was well they 'll have to mark , when they ca n't distinguish between the foreground and background , professor f : yeah . grad a : because i thought that was gon na be the most prevalent . but if we send them without editing , then we 're also gon na hafta have m uh , notations for words that are cut off , phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : and other sorts of , uh , acoustic problems . phd b : yeah . postdoc c : they do already . phd d : and they may just guess at what those cut - off words are , postdoc c : yeah . phd d : but w i mean we 're gon na adjust everything when we come back grad a : but what what we would like them to do is be conservative so that they should only write down the transcript if they 're sure . phd b : yeah . grad a : and otherwise they should mark it so that we can check . phd b : mark it . sure . yeah . yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . postdoc c : well , we have the unintelligibility convention . grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc c : and actually they have one also , grad a : right . postdoc c : which professor f : i can i maybe have have an order of it 's probably in your paper that i have n't looked at lately , but postdoc c : certainty . professor f : uh , an order of magnitude notion of of how on a good meeting , how often uh , do you get segments that come in the middle of words and so forth , and uh in a bad meeting how often ? postdoc c : was is it in a in a what what is the t professor f : well he 's saying , you know , that the the edu meeting was a good good meeting , postdoc c : in a good meeting , what ? phd b : yeah . postdoc c : yeah . professor f : right ? postdoc c : oh i see , professor f : uh , and so so so it was almost it was almost always doing the right thing . postdoc c : the characteristics . professor f : so i wanted to get some sense of what what almost always meant . and then , uh in a bad meeting , or p some meetings where he said oh he 's had some problems , what does that mean ? postdoc c : uh - huh . ok . professor f : so i mean does one of the does it mean one percent and ten percent ? or does it mean five percent and fifty percent ? uh phd b : so professor f : or maybe percentage is n't the right word , phd b : yeah th professor f : but you know how many how many per minute , or you know . phd b : yeah , the the problem is that , nnn , the numbers ian gave in the paper is just uh , some frame error rate . so that 's that 's not really what will be effective for for the transcribers , is they have to yeah , in in they have to insure that that 's a real s spurt or something . and but , the numbers oops . um let me think . so the speech the amount of speech that is missed by the detector , for a good meeting , i th is around or under one percent , i would say . but there can be yeah . for yeah , but there can be more there 's there 's more amount speech uh , more amount of yeah well , the detector says there is speech , but there is none . so that that can be a lot when when it 's really a breathy channel . professor f : but i think that 's less of a problem . phd b : yeah . professor f : they 'll just listen . it 's just wasted time . phd b : yeah . professor f : and th and that 's for a good meeting . now what about in a meeting that you said we 've you 've had some more trouble with ? phd b : i ca n't { comment } really hhh , { comment } tsk . { comment } i do n't have really representative numbers , i think . that 's really i i did this on on four meetings and only five minutes of of every meet of of these meetings so , it 's not not that representative , but , it 's perhaps , fff . um yeah , it 's perhaps then it 's perhaps five percent of something , which s uh the the frames speech frames which are which are missed , but um , i ca n't ca n't really tell . professor f : right . so i so i sometime , we might wan na go back and look at it more in terms of how many times is there a spurt that 's that 's uh , interrupted ? phd b : yeah . yeah . yeah . professor f : something like that ? postdoc c : the other problem is , that when it when it uh d i on the breathy ones , where you get breathing , uh , inti indicated as speech . professor f : and phd b : so postdoc c : and i guess we could just indicate to the transcribers not to encode that if they we could still do the beep file . professor f : yeah again i i think that that is probably less of a problem because if you 're if there 's if if a if a word is is split , then they might have to listen to it a few times to really understand that they ca n't quite get it . postdoc c : ok . ok . phd b : but professor f : whereas if they listen to it and there 's do n't hear any speech i think they 'd probably just listen to it once . phd b : yeah . professor f : so there 'd you 'd think there 'd be a a factor of three or four in in , uh , cost function , you know , between them or something . phd b : yeah , so but i think that 's n that really does n't happen very often that that that a word is cut in the middle or something . that 's that 's really not not normal . professor f : so so what you 're saying is that nearly always what happens when there 's a problem is that is that uh , there 's some uh , uh nonspeech that uh that is b interpreted as speech . phd b : that is marked as speech . yeah . yeah . professor f : well then , we really should just send the stuff . postdoc c : that would be great . professor f : right ? because that does n't do any harm . phd b : yeah , it 's professor f : you know , if they they hear you know , a dog bark and they say what was the word , they { comment } you know , they phd b : yeah , i als i professor f : ruff ruff ! phd b : yeah i also thought of there there are really some channels where it is almost { comment } um , only bre breathing in it . and to to re - run 's professor f : yeah ? phd b : eh , um . yeah . i 've got a a p - a method with loops into the cross - correlation with the pzm mike , and then to reject everything which which seems to be breath . professor f : uh - huh . phd b : so , i could run this on those breathy channels , and perhaps throw out grad a : that 's a good idea . postdoc c : wow , that 's a great idea . professor f : yeah . but i think i th again , i think that sort of that that would be good , phd b : yeah . professor f : and what that 'll do is just cut the time a little further . phd b : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . professor f : but i think none of this is stuff that really needs somebody doing these these uh , uh , explicit markings . phd d : yeah . postdoc c : excellent . oh , i 'd be delighted with that , i i was very impressed with the with the result . yeah . professor f : yeah , cuz the other thing that was concerning me about it was that it seemed kind of specialized to the edu meeting , and and that then when you get a meeting like this or something , phd b : yeah . professor f : and and you have a b a bunch of different dominant speakers postdoc c : oh yeah , interesting . professor f : you know , how are you gon na handle it . postdoc c : oh yeah . professor f : whereas this sounds like a more general solution postdoc c : oh yeah , i pr i much prefer this , professor f : is postdoc c : i was just trying to find a way cuz i i do n't think the staggered mixed channel is awfully good as a way of handling overlaps . professor f : yeah . uh - huh . postdoc c : but but uh phd d : well good . that that really simplifies thing then . postdoc c : yeah . phd d : and we can just , you know , get the meeting , process it , put the beeps file , send it off to ibm . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd d : you know ? phd b : yeah . phd d : with very little work on our side . phd b : process it , hear into it . i would phd d : do what ? phd b : um , listen to it , and then grad a : or at least sample it . phd b : yeah . phd d : well , sample it . phd b : yeah . phd d : sample it . professor f : i i would just use some samples , phd b : yeah . yeah . professor f : make sure you do n't send them three hours of `` bzzz `` { comment } or something . phd d : yeah . yeah . right . phd b : that wo n't be good . postdoc c : yeah . phd d : yeah . yeah that would be very good . phd b : yeah . phd d : and then we can you know professor f : yeah . phd d : that 'll oughta be a good way to get the pipeline going . postdoc c : oh , i 'd be delighted . yeah . phd b : and there 's there 's one point which i { comment } uh yeah , which which i r we covered when i when i r listened to one of the edu meetings , professor f : great . phd b : and that 's that somebody is playing sound from his laptop . grad a : uh - huh phd b : and i the speech - nonspeech detector just assigns randomly the speech to to one of the channels , so . uh - i have n't - i did n't think of of s of this before , grad a : what can you do ? phd b : but what what shall we do about s things like this ? postdoc c : well you were suggesting you suggested maybe just not sending that part of the meeting . grad a : yep . mmm . postdoc c : but phd b : but , sometimes the the the laptop is in the background and some somebody is is talking , and , that 's really a little bit confusing , but grad a : it 's a little bit confusing . professor f : that 's life . phd b : yeah . grad a : i mean , { comment } what 're we gon na do ? phd b : yeah . grad a : even a hand - transcription would postdoc c : do you professor f : yeah . grad a : a hand - transcriber would have trouble with that . phd b : yeah , that 's that 's a second question , `` what what will different transcribers do with with the laptop sound ? `` postdoc c : would you would professor f : what was the l what was the laptop sound ? postdoc c : yeah , go ahead . professor f : i mean was it speech , phd b : yeah . professor f : or was it phd b : it 's speech . professor f : great . postdoc c : well , so i mean so my standard approach has been if it 's not someone close - miked , then , they do n't end up on one of the close - miked channels . they end up on a different channel . and we have any number of channels available , professor f : uh - huh . phd b : yeah . postdoc c : i mean it 's an infinite number of channels . so just put them on some other channel . phd b : when thi when this is sent to to the i m - eh , i b m transcribers , i do n't know if if they can tell that 's really postdoc c : yeah , that 's right . grad a : yeah cuz there will be no channel on which it is foreground . phd b : yeah . yeah . grad a : uh postdoc c : well , they have a convention , in their own procedures , which is for a background sound . grad a : right , but , uh , in general i do n't think we want them transcribing the background , cuz that would be too much work . phd b : yeah . grad a : right ? for it because in the overlap sections , then they 'll phd d : well i do n't think jane 's saying they 're gon na transcribe it , but they 'll just mark it as being there 's some background stuff there , grad a : but that 's gon na be all over the place . postdoc c : yeah . phd d : right ? grad a : how w how will they tell the difference between that sort of background and the dormal normal background of two people talking at once ? phd b : yeah . postdoc c : oh , i think i think it 'd be easy to to say `` background laptop `` . grad a : how would they know that ? phd d : but wait a minute , why would they treat them differently ? phd b : yeah . postdoc c : well because one of them grad a : because otherwise it 's gon na be too much work for them to mark it . they 'll be marking it all over the place . phd b : yeah . postdoc c : oh , i s background laptop or , background lt would n't take any time . grad a : sure , but how are they gon na tell bet the difference between that and two people just talking at the same time ? postdoc c : and phd b : yeah . postdoc c : oh , you can tell . acoustically , ca n't you tell ? phd b : it 's really good sound , so postdoc c : oh is it ? oh ! professor f : well , i mean , is n't there a category something like uh , `` sounds for someone for whom there is no i close mike `` ? phd b : yeah that would be very important , grad a : but how do we d how do we do that for the i b m folks ? postdoc c : yeah . phd b : yeah . grad a : how can they tell that ? phd d : well we may just have to do it when it gets back here . grad a : yes , that 's my opinion as well . phd b : yeah . grad a : so we do n't do anything for it with it . phd d : yeah . postdoc c : that sounds good . grad a : and they 'll just mark it however they mark it , postdoc c : that sounds good . phd d : yeah . grad a : and we 'll correct it when it comes back . professor f : yeah . phd b : there was a category for @ @ { comment } speech . grad a : yeah , the default . postdoc c : yeah , s a grad a : no , not default . postdoc c : well , as it comes back , we have a uh when we can use the channelized interface for encoding it , then it 'll be easy for us to handle . phd b : yeah . postdoc c : but but if if out of context , they ca n't tell if it 's a channeled speak uh , you know , a close - miked speaker or not , then that would be confusing to them . grad a : right . postdoc c : i do n't know , i it does n't i do n't either way would be fine with me , i do n't really care . professor f : yeah . so . shall we uh , do digits and get out of here ? postdoc c : i have o i have one question . do you think we should send the um that whole meeting to them and not worry about pre - processing it ? professor f : yes ma ' postdoc c : or uh , what i mean is we we should leave the part with the audio in the uh , beep file that we send to ibm for that one , or should we start after the that part of the meeting is over in what we send . professor f : which part ? phd b : with postdoc c : so , the part where they 're using sounds from their from their laptops . phd b : with the laptop sound , or ? just postdoc c : w if we have speech from the laptop should we just uh , excise that from what we send to ibm , or should we i give it to them and let them do with it what they can ? phd d : i think we should just it it 's gon na be too much work if we hafta worry about that i think . postdoc c : ok , that 'd be nice to have a a uniform procedure . phd d : yeah , i think if we just m send it all to them . you know . grad a : worry about it when we get back . postdoc c : good . and see how well they do . phd d : let yeah , worry about it when we get back in . postdoc c : and give them freedom to to indicate if it 's just not workable . professor f : yeah . postdoc c : yeah , phd d : yeah . professor f : yeah . postdoc c : excellent . professor f : cuz , i would n't do n't think we would mind having that transcribed , if they did it . grad a : i think phd d : yeah , e grad a : as i say , we 'll just have to listen to it and see how horrible it is . postdoc c : yeah , yeah . phd b : yeah . grad a : sample it , rather . postdoc c : ok . alright . phd b : i think that that will be a little bit of a problem phd d : yeah . postdoc c : that 's great . phd b : as it really switches around between two different channels , i think . grad a : mm - hmm , and and they 're very it 's very audible ? on the close - talking channels ? phd b : what what i would yeah . grad a : oh well . i mean , it 's the same problem as the lapel mike . professor f : yeah . phd b : yeah . grad a : but postdoc c : oh , interesting . phd b : comparable , yeah . professor f : yeah . postdoc c : ok , alright . digits . professor f : let 's do digits . postdoc c : ok , so we read the transcript number first , right ? grad a : are we gon na do it altogether or separately ? phd b : so what time is it ? professor f : uh , why do n't we do it together , postdoc c : uh , quarter to four . phd b : oh , ok . professor f : that 's that 's a nice fast way to do it . postdoc c : mm - hmm . professor f : one , two , three , go ! postdoc c : it 's kind of interesting if there 're any more errors in these , than we had the first set . grad a : nnn , yeah , i think there probably will be . phd b : yeah . phd d : do you guys plug your ears when you do it ? grad a : i do . postdoc c : i usually do . phd d : i do . phd b : i do n't . postdoc c : i did n't this time . phd d : you do n't ? professor f : i have n't been , phd d : how can you do that ? i i professor f : uh , concentration . phd b : perhaps there are lots of errors in it grad a : total concentration . are you guys ready ? phd d : you hate to have your ears plugged ? professor f : yeah . </s>
<s> what was said about the deadline ? </s> phd g : right . i hope they accept it . professor f : right . phd g : i mean , i both actu as as a submission and you know , as a paper . um but grad a : well yeah , you sent it in late . professor f : yeah , i guess you first you have to do the first one , grad a : yeah . professor f : and then yeah . phd g : we actually exceeded the delayed deadline by o another day , so . phd b : oops . professor f : oh they they had some extension that they announced or something ? phd g : well yeah . liz had sent them a note saying `` could we please have another `` { comment } i do n't know , `` three days `` or something , and they said yes . </s>
<s> what were the contents of the paper ? </s> postdoc c : yeah , that 's a good point . phd g : well , we did n't get to look at that , phd b : yeah . postdoc c : yeah . phd g : but this obvious thing to see if if there 's a dependence on the number of uh participants . postdoc c : good idea . grad a : i mean i bet there 's a weak dependence . i 'm sure it 's it 's not a real strong one . phd b : yeah . phd g : right . grad a : right ? because you phd d : cuz not everybody talks . grad a : right . phd g : right . phd d : yeah . grad a : you have a lot of a lot of two - party , subsets within the meeting . </s>
<s> what statistics were included in the paper ? </s> professor f : but uh , other than that delightful result , what was the rest of the paper about ? phd g : um , well it was about it had three sections professor f : you sent it to me but i have n't seen it yet . phd g : uh three kinds of uh results , if you will . uh , the one was that the just the the amount of overlap grad a : the good , the bad , and the ugly . phd g : um , s in terms of in terms of number of words and also we computed something called a `` spurt `` , which is essentially a stretch of speech with uh , no pauses exceeding five hundred milliseconds . um , and we computed how many overlapped i uh spurts there were and how many overlapped words there were . um , for four different corpora , the meeting recorder meetings , the robustness meetings switchboard and callhome , and , found and sort of compared the numbers . um , and found that the , uh , you know , as you might expect the meeting recorder meetings had the most overlap uh , but next were switchboard and callhome , which both had roughly the same , almost identical in fact , and the robustness meetings were had the least , so one sort of unexpected result there is that uh two - party telephone conversations have about the same amount of overlap , grad a : i 'm surprised . </s>
<s> what pre-processing was needed for the ibm transcripts ? </s> postdoc c : that 's that 's right , but you know , thi this brings me to the other f stage of this which i discussed with you earlier today , phd b : yeah . postdoc c : which is the second stage is um , w what to do in terms of the transcribers adjustment of these data . i discussed this with you too . um , the tr so the idea initially was , we would get uh , for the new meetings , so the e edu meetings , that thilo ha has now presegmented all of them for us , on a channel by channel basis . and um , so , i 've assigned i 've i 've assigned them to our transcribers and um , so far i 've discussed it with one , with uh and i had a about an hour discussion with her about this yesterday , we went through uh edu - one , at some extent . and it occurred to me that um that basically what we have in this kind of a format is you could consider it as a staggered mixed file , we had some discussion over the weekend a about at at this other meeting that we were all a at um , about whether the tran the ibm transcribers should hear a single channel audio , or a mixed channel audio . and um , in in a way , by by having this this chunk and then the backchannel after it , it 's like a stagal staggered mixed channel . and um , it occurred to me in my discussion with her yesterday that um , um , the the the maximal gain , it 's from the ibm people , may be in long stretches of connected speech . so it 's basically a whole bunch of words which they can really do , because of the continuity within that person 's turn . so , what i 'm thinking , and it may be that not all meetings will be good for this , { comment } but but what i 'm thinking is that in the edu meetings , they tend to be driven by a couple of dominant speakers . and , if the chunked files focused on the dominant speakers , then , when when it got s patched together when it comes back from ibm , we can add the backchannels . it seems to me that um , you know , the backchannels per - se would n't be so hard , but then there 's this question of the time @ @ { comment } uh , marking , and whether the beeps would be uh y y y and i 'm not exactly sure how that how that would work with the with the backchannels . and , so um and certainly things that are intrusions of multiple words , taken out of context and displaced in time from where they occurred , that would be hard . so , m my thought is i i 'm having this transcriber go through the edu - one meeting , and indicate a start time f for each dominant speaker , endpoi end time for each dominant speaker , and the idea that these units would be generated for the dominant speakers , and maybe not for the other channels . grad a : yeah the only , um , disadvantage of that is , then it 's hard to use an automatic method to do that . the advantage is that it 's probably faster to do that than it is to use the automated method and correct it . so . postdoc c : well , it grad a : we 'll just have to see . postdoc c : ok . i think i i think um , you know , the original plan was that the transcriber would adjust the t the boundaries , and all that for all the channels but , you know , that is so time - consuming , and since we have a bottleneck here , we want to get ibm things that are usable s as soon as possible , then this seemed to me it 'd be a way of gett to get them a flood of data , which would be useful when it comes back to us . and um </s>
<s> what would help the transcribers ? </s> professor f : but you know how many how many per minute , or you know . phd b : yeah , the the problem is that , nnn , the numbers ian gave in the paper is just uh , some frame error rate . so that 's that 's not really what will be effective for for the transcribers , is they have to yeah , in in they have to insure that that 's a real s spurt or something . and but , the numbers oops . um let me think . so the speech the amount of speech that is missed by the detector , for a good meeting , i th is around or under one percent , i would say . but there can be yeah . for yeah , but there can be more there 's there 's more amount speech uh , more amount of yeah well , the detector says there is speech , but there is none . so that that can be a lot when when it 's really a breathy channel . professor f : but i think that 's less of a problem . phd b : yeah . professor f : they 'll just listen . it 's just wasted time . phd b : yeah . professor f : and th and that 's for a good meeting . now what about in a meeting that you said we 've you 've had some more trouble with ? phd b : i ca n't { comment } really hhh , { comment } tsk . { comment } i do n't have really representative numbers , i think . that 's really i i did this on on four meetings and only five minutes of of every meet of of these meetings so , it 's not not that representative , but , it 's perhaps , fff . um yeah , it 's perhaps then it 's perhaps five percent of something , which s uh the the frames speech frames which are which are missed , but um , i ca n't ca n't really tell . professor f : right . so i so i sometime , we might wan na go back and look at it more in terms of how many times is there a spurt that 's that 's uh , interrupted ? phd b : yeah . yeah . yeah . professor f : something like that ? postdoc c : the other problem is , that when it when it uh d i on the breathy ones , where you get breathing , uh , inti indicated as speech . </s>
<s> what difficulties were faced ? </s> postdoc c : how interesting . you know professor f : what 's the problem the l i forget . is the problem the lapel , or or phd b : uh , it really depends . um , my my my impression is that it 's better for meetings with fewer speakers , and it 's better for for meetings where nobody is breathing . yeah , professor f : the dead meetings . phd b : get that 's it . phd d : so in fact this might suggest an alternative sort of a a c a hybrid between these two things . grad a : no , the undead meeting , yeah . postdoc c : yeah . yeah ? phd d : so the the one suggestion is you know we we run thilo 's thing and then we have somebody go and adjust all the time boundaries phd b : yeah . postdoc c : yeah ? </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd a : ok , we 're going . phd d : damn . professor c : and uh hans - uh , hans - guenter will be here , um , i think by next next tuesday or so . phd b : oh , ok . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so he 's he 's going to be here for about three weeks , phd b : oh ! that 's nice . phd a : just for a visit ? professor c : and , uh uh , we 'll see . we might might end up with some longer collaboration or something . phd a : cool . professor c : so he 's gon na look in on everything we 're doing phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : and give us his his thoughts . and so it 'll be another another good person looking at things . phd b : oh . hmm . grad e : th - that 's his spectral subtraction group ? professor c : yeah , grad e : is that right ? professor c : yeah . grad e : oh , ok . so i guess i should probably talk to him a bit too ? professor c : oh , yeah . yeah . yeah . no , he 'll be around for three weeks . he 's , uh , um , very , very , easygoing , easy to talk to , and , uh , very interested in everything . phd a : really nice guy . professor c : yeah , yeah . phd b : yeah , we met him in amsterdam . professor c : yeah , yeah , he 's been here before . phd b : oh , ok . professor c : i mean , he 's he 's he 's he 's phd a : wh - back when i was a grad student he was here for a , uh , uh a year or { comment } n six months . phd b : i have n't noticed him . professor c : n nine months . phd a : something like that . professor c : something like that . phd a : yeah . professor c : yeah . yeah . he 's he 's done a couple stays here . yeah . phd a : so , um , { comment } i guess we got lots to catch up on . and we have n't met for a couple of weeks . we did n't meet last week , morgan . um , i went around and talked to everybody , and it seemed like they they had some new results but rather than them coming up and telling me i figured we should just wait a week and they can tell both you know , all of us . so , um , why do n't we why do n't we start with you , dave , and then , um , we can go on . grad e : oh , ok . so , um , since we 're looking at putting this , um mean log m magnitude spectral subtraction , um , into the smartkom system , i i did a test seeing if , um , it would work using past only { comment } and plus the present to calculate the mean . so , i did a test , um , where i used twelve seconds from the past and the present frame to , um , calculate the mean . and phd a : twelve seconds twelve twelve seconds back from the current frame , is that what you mean ? grad e : uh twelve seconds , um , counting back from the end of the current frame , phd a : ok , ok . grad e : yeah . so it was , um , twen i think it was twenty - one frames and that worked out to about twelve seconds . phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and compared to , um , do using a twelve second centered window , i think there was a drop in performance but it was just a slight drop . professor c : mm - hmm . grad e : is is that right ? professor c : um , yeah , i mean , it was pretty it was pretty tiny . yeah . grad e : uh - huh . so that was encouraging . and , um , that that um , that 's encouraging for for the idea of using it in an interactive system like and , um , another issue i 'm i 'm thinking about is in the smartkom system . so say twe twelve seconds in the earlier test seemed like a good length of time , but what happens if you have less than twelve seconds ? and , um so i w bef before , um back in may , i did some experiments using , say , two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . in those i trained the models using mean subtraction with the means calculated over two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . and , um , here , i was curious , what if i trained the models using twelve seconds but i f i gave it a situation where the test set i was subtracted using two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . and , um so i did that for about three different conditions . and , um i mean , i th i think it was , um , four se i think i think it was , um , something like four seconds and , um , six seconds , and eight seconds . something like that . and it seems like it it it hurts compared to if you actually train the models { comment } using th that same length of time but it it does n't hurt that much . um , u usually less than point five percent , although i think i did see one where it was a point eight percent or so rise in word error rate . but this is , um , w where , um , even if i train on the , uh , model , and mean subtracted it with the same length of time as in the test , it the word error rate is around , um , ten percent or nine percent . so it does n't seem like that big a d a difference . professor c : but it but looking at it the other way , is n't it what you 're saying that it did n't help you to have the longer time for training , if you were going to have a short time for grad e : that that 's true . um , professor c : i mean , why would you do it , if you knew that you were going to have short windows in testing . phd a : yeah , it seems like for your i mean , in normal situations you would never get twelve seconds of speech , right ? i 'm not e u phd b : you need twelve seconds in the past to estimate , right ? or l or you 're looking at six sec seconds in future and six in professor c : yeah . grad e : um , t twelve s professor c : no , total . grad e : n n uh for the test it 's just twelve seconds in the past . phd b : no , it 's all oh , ok . phd a : is this twelve seconds of uh , regardless of speech or silence ? or twelve seconds of speech ? grad e : of of speech . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : the other thing , um , which maybe relates a little bit to something else we 've talked about in terms of windowing and so on is , that , um , i wonder if you trained with twelve seconds , and then when you were two seconds in you used two seconds , and when you were four seconds in , you used four seconds , and when you were six and you basically build up to the twelve seconds . so that if you have very long utterances you have the best , grad e : yeah . professor c : but if you have shorter utterances you use what you can . grad e : right . and that 's actually what we 're planning to do in professor c : ok . yeah . grad e : but s so i g so i guess the que the question i was trying to get at with those experiments is , `` does it matter what models you use ? does it matter how much time y you use to calculate the mean when you were , um , tra doing the training data ? `` professor c : right . but i mean the other thing is that that 's i mean , the other way of looking at this , going back to , uh , mean cepstral subtraction versus rasta kind of things , is that you could look at mean cepstral subtraction , especially the way you 're doing it , uh , as being a kind of filter . and so , the other thing is just to design a filter . you know , basically you 're you 're you 're doing a high - pass filter or a band - pass filter of some sort and and just design a filter . and then , you know , a filter will have a certain behavior and you loo can look at the start up behavior when you start up with nothing . grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : and and , you know , it will , uh , if you have an iir filter for instance , it will , um , uh , not behave in the steady - state way that you would like it to behave until you get a long enough period , but , um , uh , by just constraining yourself to have your filter be only a subtraction of the mean , you 're kind of , you know , tying your hands behind your back because there 's filters have all sorts of be temporal and spectral behaviors . grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : and the only thing , you know , consistent that we know about is that you want to get rid of the very low frequency component . phd b : but do you really want to calculate the mean ? and you neglect all the silence regions { comment } or you just use everything that 's twelve seconds , and grad e : um , you do you mean in my tests so far ? phd b : ye - yeah . grad e : most of the silence has been cut out . just there 's just inter - word silences . phd b : mm - hmm . and they are , like , pretty short . shor grad e : pretty short . phd b : yeah , ok . grad e : yeah . phd b : yeah . mm - hmm . so you really need a lot of speech to estimate the mean of it . grad e : well , if i only use six seconds , it still works pretty well . phd b : yeah . yeah . uh - huh . grad e : i saw in my test before . i was trying twelve seconds cuz that was the best in my test before and that increasing past twelve seconds did n't seem to help . phd b : hmm . huh . grad e : th um , yeah , i guess it 's something i need to play with more to decide how to set that up for the smartkom system . like , may maybe if i trained on six seconds it would work better when i only had two seconds or four seconds , and professor c : yeah . yeah . and , um yeah , and again , if you take this filtering perspective and if you essentially have it build up over time . i mean , if you computed means over two and then over four , and over six , essentially what you 're getting at is a kind of , uh , ramp up of a filter anyway . and so you may may just want to think of it as a filter . but , uh , if you do that , then , um , in practice somebody using the smartkom system , one would think { comment } if they 're using it for a while , it means that their first utterance , instead of , you know , getting , uh , a forty percent error rate reduction , they 'll get a uh , over what , uh , you 'd get without this , uh , um , policy , uh , you get thirty percent . and then the second utterance that you give , they get the full you know , uh , full benefit of it if it 's this ongoing thing . phd a : oh , so you you cache the utterances ? that 's how you get your , uh professor c : well , i 'm saying in practice , yeah , phd a : ah . ok . professor c : that 's if somebody 's using a system to ask for directions or something , you know , they 'll say something first . and and to begin with if it does n't get them quite right , ma m maybe they 'll come back and say , `` excuse me ? `` phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , or some i mean it should have some policy like that anyway . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : and and , uh , uh , in any event they might ask a second question . and it 's not like what he 's doing does n't , uh , improve things . it does improve things , just not as much as he would like . and so , uh , there 's a higher probability of it making an error , uh , in the first utterance . phd a : what would be really cool is if you could have uh , this probably users would never like this but if you had could have a system where , before they began to use it they had to introduce themselves , verbally . professor c : mm - hmm . phd a : you know . `` hi , my name is so - and - so , professor c : yeah . phd a : i 'm from blah - blah - blah . `` and you could use that initial speech to do all these adaptations and professor c : right . grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : oh , the other thing i guess which which , uh , i do n't know much about as much as i should about the rest of the system but but , um , could n't you , uh , if you if you sort of did a first pass i do n't know what kind of , uh , uh , capability we have at the moment for for doing second passes on on , uh , uh , some kind of little small lattice , or a graph , or confusion network , or something . but if you did first pass with , um , the with either without the mean sub subtraction or with a a very short time one , and then , um , once you , uh , actually had the whole utterance in , if you did , um , the , uh , uh , longer time version then , based on everything that you had , um , and then at that point only used it to distinguish between , you know , top n , um , possible utterances or something , you you might it might not take very much time . i mean , i know in the large vocabulary stu uh , uh , systems , people were evaluating on in the past , some people really pushed everything in to make it in one pass but other people did n't and had multiple passes . and , um , the argument , um , against multiple passes was u u has often been `` but we want to this to be r you know have a nice interactive response `` . and the counterargument to that which , say , uh , bbn i think had , { comment } was `` yeah , but our second responses are second , uh , passes and third passes are really , really fast `` . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : so , um , if if your second pass takes a millisecond who cares ? um . grad e : s so , um , the the idea of the second pass would be waiting till you have more recorded speech ? or ? professor c : yeah , so if it turned out to be a problem , that you did n't have enough speech because you need a longer longer window to do this processing , then , uh , one tactic is you know , looking at the larger system and not just at the front - end stuff { comment } is to take in , um , the speech with some simpler mechanism or shorter time mechanism , grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : um , do the best you can , and come up with some al possible alternates of what might have been said . and , uh , either in the form of an n - best list or in the form of a lattice , or or confusion network , or whatever . grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : and then the decoding of that is much , much faster or can be much , much faster if it is n't a big bushy network . and you can decode that now with speech that you 've actually processed using this longer time , uh , subtraction . so i mean , it 's it 's common that people do this sort of thing where they do more things that are more complex or require looking over more time , whatever , in some kind of second pass . grad e : mm - hmm . ok . professor c : um , and again , if the second pass is really , really fast uh , another one i 've heard of is is in in connected digit stuff , um , going back and l and through backtrace and finding regions that are considered to be a d a digit , but , uh , which have very low energy . grad e : mm - hmm . ok . professor c : so , uh i mean , there 's lots of things you can do in second passes , at all sorts of levels . anyway , i 'm throwing too many things out . but . phd a : so is that , uh that it ? grad e : i guess that 's it . phd a : ok , uh , do you wan na go , sunil ? phd b : yep . um , so , the last two weeks was , like so i 've been working on that wiener filtering . and , uh , found that , uh , s single like , i just do a s normal wiener filtering , like the standard method of wiener filtering . and that does n't actually give me any improvement over like i mean , uh , b it actually improves over the baseline but it 's not like it does n't meet something like fifty percent or something . so , i 've been playing with the v phd a : improves over the base line mfcc system ? yeah . phd b : yeah . yeah . yeah . so , um so that 's the improvement is somewhere around , like , thirty percent over the baseline . professor c : is that using in combination with something else ? phd b : no , just just one stage wiener filter professor c : with with a phd b : which is a standard wiener filter . professor c : no , no , but i mean in combination with our on - line normalization or with the lda ? phd b : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . so i just plug in the wiener filtering . professor c : oh , ok . phd b : i mean , in the s in our system , where phd a : oh , ok . phd b : so , i di i di professor c : so , does it g does that mean it gets worse ? or ? phd b : no . it actually improves over the baseline of not having a wiener filter in the whole system . like i have an lda f lda plus on - line normalization , and then i plug in the wiener filter in that , professor c : yeah ? phd b : so it improves over not having the wiener filter . so it improves but it it does n't take it like be beyond like thirty percent over the baseline . so professor c : but that 's what i 'm confused about , cuz i think i thought that our system was more like forty percent without the wiener filtering . phd b : no , it 's like , uh , phd a : is this with the v new vad ? phd b : well , these are not no , it 's the old vad . so my baseline was , uh , nine this is like w the baseline is ninety - five point six eight , and eighty - nine , and professor c : so i mean , if you can do all these in word errors it 's a lot a lot easier actually . phd b : what was that ? sorry ? professor c : if you do all these in word error rates it 's a lot easier , right ? phd b : oh , ok , ok , ok . errors , right , i do n't have . professor c : ok , cuz then you can figure out the percentages . phd b : it 's all accuracies . professor c : yeah . phd d : the baseline is something similar to a w i mean , the t the the baseline that you are talking about is the mfcc baseline , right ? phd b : the t yeah , there are two baselines . phd d : or ? phd b : ok . so the baseline one baseline is mfcc baseline that when i said thirty percent improvement it 's like mfcc baseline . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so so so what 's it start on ? the mfcc baseline is is what ? is at what level ? phd b : it 's the it 's just the mel frequency and that 's it . professor c : no , what 's what 's the number ? phd b : uh , so i i do n't have that number here . ok , ok , ok , i have it here . uh , it 's the vad plus the baseline actually . i 'm talking about the the mfcc plus i do a frame dropping on it . so that 's like the word error rate is like four point three . like ten point seven . professor c : four point three . what 's ten point seven ? phd b : it 's a medium misma ok , sorry . there 's a well ma well matched , medium mismatched , and a high matched . so i do n't have the like the professor c : yeah . phd b : so professor c : ok , four point three , ten point seven , phd b : and forty forty . professor c : and phd b : forty percent is the high mismatch . and that becomes like four point three professor c : not changed . phd b : yeah , it 's like ten point one . still the same . and the high mismatch is like eighteen point five . professor c : eighteen point five . phd b : five . professor c : and what were you just describing ? phd b : oh , the one is this one is just the baseline plus the , uh , wiener filter plugged into it . professor c : but where 's the , uh , on - line normalization and so on ? phd b : oh , ok . so sorry . so , with the with the on - line normalization , the performance was , um , ten ok , so it 's like four point three . uh , and again , that 's the ba the ten point , uh , four and twenty point one . that was with on - line normalization and lda . so the h well matched has like literally not changed by adding on - line or lda on it . but the i mean , even the medium mismatch is pretty much the same . and the high mismatch was improved by twenty percent absolute . professor c : ok , and what kind of number an and what are we talking about here ? phd b : it 's the it - it 's italian . professor c : is this ti - digits phd b : i 'm talking about italian , professor c : or italian ? phd b : yeah . professor c : and what did so , what was the , um , uh , corresponding number , say , for , um , uh , the alcatel system for instance ? phd b : mmm . professor c : do you know ? phd d : yeah , so it looks to be , um phd b : you have it ? phd d : yep , it 's three point four , uh , eight point , uh , seven , and , uh , thirteen point seven . phd b : so thanks . phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : so , uh , this is the single stage wiener filter , with the noise estimation was based on first ten frames . professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : actually i started with using the vad to estimate the noise and then i found that it works it does n't work for finnish and spanish because the vad endpoints are not good to estimate the noise because it cuts into the speech sometimes , so i end up overestimating the noise and getting a worse result . so it works only for italian by u for using a vad to estimate noise . professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : it works for italian because the vad was trained on italian . professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : so , uh so this was , uh and so this was giving um , this this was like not improving a lot on this baseline of not having the wiener filter on it . and , so , uh , i ran this stuff with one more stage of wiener filtering on it but the second time , what i did was i estimated the new wiener filter based on the cleaned up speech , and did , uh , smoothing in the frequency to to reduce the variance professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : i mean , i have i 've i 've observed there are , like , a lot of bumps in the frequency when i do this wiener filtering which is more like a musical noise or something . and so by adding another stage of wiener filtering , the results on the speechdat - car was like , um so , i still do n't have the word error rate . i 'm sorry about it . but the overall improvement was like fifty - six point four six . this was again using ten frames of noise estimate and two stage of wiener filtering . and the rest is like the lda plu and the on - line normalization all remaining the same . uh , so this was , like , compared to , uh , uh fifty - seven is what you got by using the french telecom system , right ? phd d : no , i do n't think so . is it on italian ? phd b : no , this is over the whole speechdat - car . so phd d : oh , yeah , fifty - seven phd b : point phd d : right . phd b : yeah , so the new the new wiener filtering schema is like some fifty - six point four six which is like one percent still less than what you got using the french telecom system . phd d : uh - huh . mm - hmm . professor c : but it 's a pretty similar number in any event . phd b : it 's very similar . professor c : yeah . but again , you 're you 're more or less doing what they were doing , right ? phd b : it 's it 's different in a sense like i 'm actually cleaning up the cleaned up spectrum which they 're not doing . they 're d what they 're doing is , they have two stage stages of estimating the wiener filter , but the final filter , what they do is they they take it to their time domain by doing an inverse fourier transform . professor c : yeah . phd b : and they filter the original signal using that fil filter , professor c : uh - huh . phd b : which is like final filter is acting on the input noisy speech rather than on the cleaned up . so this is more like i 'm doing wiener filter twice , but the only thing is that the second time i 'm actually smoothing the filter and then cleaning up the cleaned up spectrum first level . and so that that 's that 's what the difference is . and actually i tried it on s the original clean i mean , the original spectrum where , like , i the second time i estimate the filter but actually clean up the noisy speech rather the c s first output of the first stage and that does n't seems to be a giving , i mean , that much improvement . i i didn did n't run it for the whole case . and and what i t what i tried was , by using the same thing but uh , so we actually found that the vad is very , like , crucial . i mean , just by changing the vad itself gives you the a lot of improvement professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : by instead of using the current vad , if you just take up the vad output from the channel zero , { comment } when instead of using channel zero and channel one , because that was the p that was the reason why i was not getting a lot of improvement for estimating { comment } the noise . so i just used the channel zero vad to estimate the noise so that it gives me some reliable mar markers for this noise estimation . professor c : what 's a channel zero vad ? i 'm i 'm confused about that . phd b : so , it 's like phd d : so it 's the close - talking microphone . phd b : yeah , the close - talking without professor c : oh , oh , oh , oh . phd b : so because the channel zero and channel one are like the same speech , but only w i mean , the same endpoints . but the only thing is that the speech is very noisy for channel one , so you can actually use the output of the channel zero for channel one for the vad . i mean , that 's like a cheating method . professor c : right . i mean , so a are they going to pro what are they doing to do , do we know yet ? about as far as what they 're what the rules are going to be and what we can use ? phd d : yeah , so actually i received a a new document , describing this . phd b : yeah , that 's phd d : and what they did finally is to , mmm , uh , not to align the utterances but to perform recognition , um , only on the close - talking microphone , phd b : which is the channel zero . phd d : and to take the result of the recognition to get the boundaries uh , of speech . professor c : so it 's not like that 's being done in one place or one time . phd d : and professor c : that 's that 's just a rule and we 'd you you were permitted to do that . is is that it ? phd d : uh , i think they will send , um , files but we we do n't well , apparently professor c : oh , so they will send files so everybody will have the same boundaries to work with ? phd d : yeah . yeah . phd b : but actually their alignment actually is not seems to be improving in like on all cases . phd d : oh , i yeah , so what happened here is that , um , the overall improvement that they have with this method so well , to be more precise , what they have is , they have these alignments and then they drop the beginning silence and and the end silence but they keep , uh , two hundred milliseconds before speech and two hundred after speech . and they keep the speech pauses also . um , and the overall improvement over the mfcc baseline so , when they just , uh , add this frame dropping in addition it 's r uh , forty percent , right ? professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : fourteen percent , i mean . professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah , which is phd d : um , which is , um , t which is the overall improvement . but in some cases it does n't improve at all . like , uh , y do you remember which case ? professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : it gives like negative well , in in like some italian and ti - digits , phd d : yeah , some @ @ . phd b : right ? phd d : right . phd b : yeah . so by using the endpointed speech , actually it 's worse than the baseline in some instances , which could be due to the word pattern . phd d : mmm . yeah . professor c : yeah , phd d : and yeah , the other thing also is that fourteen percent is less than what you obtain using a real vad . phd b : yeah , our neural net phd d : so with without cheating like this . phd b : yeah , yeah . phd d : so uh so i think this shows that there is still work uh , well , working on the vad is still still important i think . professor c : yeah , c phd d : uh phd a : can i ask just a a high level question ? can you just say like one or two sentences about wiener filtering and why why are people doing that ? what 's what 's the deal with that ? phd b : ok , so the wiener filter , it 's it 's like it 's like you try to minimize i mean , so the basic principle of wiener filter is like you try to minimize the , uh , d uh , difference between the noisy signal and the clean signal if you have two channels . like let 's say you have a clean t signal and you have an additional channel where you know what is the noisy signal . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : and then you try to minimize the error between these two . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : so that 's the basic principle . and you get you can do that i mean , if if you have only a c noisy signal , at a level which you , you w try to estimate the noise from the w assuming that the first few frames are noise or if you have a w voice activity detector , uh , you estimate the noise spectrum . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : and then you phd a : do you assume the noise is the same ? phd b : yeah . in yeah , after the speech starts . phd a : uh - huh . phd b : so but that 's not the case in , uh , many many of our cases but it works reasonably well . phd a : i see . phd b : and and then you what you do is you , uh b fff . so again , i can write down some of these eq oh , ok . yeah . and then you do this uh , this is the transfer function of the wiener filter , so `` sf `` is a clean speech spectrum , power spectrum phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : and `` n `` is the noisy power spectrum . and so this is the transfer function . professor c : actually , i guess phd b : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd b : and then you multiply your noisy power spectrum with this . you get an estimate of the clean power spectrum . phd a : i see . ok . phd b : so but the thing is that you have to estimate the sf from the noisy spectrum , what you have . so you estimate the nf from the initial noise portions and then you subtract that from the current noisy spectrum to get an estimate of the sf . so sometimes that becomes zero because you do you do n't have a true estimate of the noise . so the f filter will have like sometimes zeros in it phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : because some frequency values will be zeroed out because of that . and that creates a lot of discontinuities across the spectrum because @ @ the filter . so , uh , so that 's what that was just the first stage of wiener filtering that i tried . phd a : so is this , um , basically s uh , similar to just regular spectral subtraction ? phd b : it professor c : it 's all pretty related , phd b : yeah . professor c : yeah . it 's it 's there 's a di there 's a whole class of techniques where you try in some sense to minimize the noise . phd a : uh - huh . professor c : and it 's typically a mean square sense , uh uh uh , i in in in some way . and , uh uh , spectral subtraction is is , uh uh , one approach to it . phd a : do people use the wiener filtering in combination with the spectral subtraction typically , or is i are they sort of competing techniques ? phd b : not seen . they are very s similar techniques . phd a : yeah . o oh , ok . phd b : so it 's like i have n't seen anybody using s wiener filter with spectral subtraction . phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : i see , i see . professor c : i mean , in the long run you 're doing the same thing phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . professor c : but y but there you make different approximations , and in spectral subtraction , for instance , there 's a a an estimation factor . you sometimes will figure out what the noise is and you 'll multiply that noise spectrum times some constant and subtract that rather than and sometimes people even though this really should be in the power domain , sometimes people s work in the magnitude domain because it it it works better . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : and , uh , uh , you know . phd a : so why did you choose , uh , wiener filtering over some other one of these other techniques ? phd b : uh , the reason was , like , we had this choice of using spectral subtraction , wiener filtering , and there was one more thing which i which i 'm trying , is this sub space approach . so , stephane is working on spectral subtraction . phd a : oh , ok . phd b : so i picked up phd a : so you 're sort of trying @ @ them all . phd b : y yeah , we just wanted to have a few noise production compensation techniques phd a : i see . oh , ok . phd b : and then pick some from that phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : pick one . professor c : i m i mean yeah , i mean , there 's car - carmen 's working on another , on the vector taylor series . phd b : va yeah , vad . w yeah . professor c : so they were just kind of trying to cover a bunch of different things with this task and see , you know , what are what are the issues for each of them . phd a : ah , ok . that makes sense . phd b : yeah . phd a : yeah . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . cool , thanks . phd b : so so one of one of the things that i tried , like i said , was to remove those zeros in the fri filter by doing some smoothing of the filter . professor c : yeah . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : like , you estimate the edge of square and then you do a f smoothing across the frequency so that those zeros get , like , flattened out . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : and that does n't seems to be improving by trying it on the first time . so what i did was like i p did this and then you i plugged in the one more the same thing but with the smoothed filter the second time . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : and that seems to be working . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : so that 's where i got like fifty - six point five percent improvement on speechdat - car with that . and so the other thing what i tried was i used still the ten frames of noise estimate but i used this channel zero vad to drop the frames . so i 'm not still not estimating . and that has taken the performance to like sixty - seven percent in speechdat - car , which is which which like sort of shows that by using a proper vad you can just take it to further , better levels . and so . phd a : so that 's sort of like , you know , best - case performance ? phd b : yeah , so far i 've seen sixty - seven i mean , no , i have n't seen s like sixty - seven percent . and , uh , using the channel zero vad to estimate the noise also seems to be improving but i do n't have the results for all the cases with that . so i used channel zero vad to estimate noise as a lesser 2 x frame , which is like , everywhere i use the channel zero vad . and that seems to be the best combination , uh , rather than using a few frames to estimate and then drop a channel . professor c : so i 'm i 'm still a little confused . is that channel zero information going to be accessible during this test . phd b : nnn , no . this is just to test whether we can really improve by using a better vad . professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd b : i mean so this is like the noise compensation f is fixed phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : but you make a better decision on the endpoints . that 's , like seems to be professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : so we c so i mean , which which means , like , by using this technique what we improve just the vad we can just take the performance by another ten percent or better . so , that that was just the , uh , reason for doing that experiment . and , w um yeah , but this all these things , i have to still try it on the ti - digits , which is like i 'm just running . and there seems to be not improving a a lot on the ti - digits , so i 'm like investigating that , why it 's not . and , um , um well after that . so , uh so the other the other thing is like i 've been i 'm doing all this stuff on the power spectrum . so tried this stuff on the mel as well mel and the magnitude , and mel magnitude , and all those things . but it seems to be the power spectrum seems to be getting the best result . so , one of one of reasons i thought like doing the averaging , after the filtering using the mel filter bank , that seems to be maybe helping rather than trying it on the mel filter ba filtered outputs . professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd b : so just th professor c : ma makes sense . phd b : yeah , th that 's that 's the only thing that i could think of why why it 's giving improvement on the mel . and , yep . so that 's it . professor c : uh , how about the subspace stuff ? phd b : subspace , { comment } i 'm i 'm like that 's still in a little bit in the back burner because i 've been p putting a lot effort on this to make it work , on tuning things and other stuff . so i was like going parallely but not much of improvement . i 'm just have some skeletons ready , need some more time for it . phd a : tha - that it ? phd b : yep . yep . phd a : cool . do you wan na go , stephane ? phd d : uh , yeah . so , i 've been , uh , working still on the spectral subtraction . um , so to r to remind you a little bit of of what i did before , is just to apply some spectral subtraction with an overestimation factor also to get , um , an estimate of the noise , uh , spectrum , and subtract this estimation of the noise spectrum from the , uh , signal spectrum , { comment } but subtracting more when the snr is is , uh , low , which is a technique that it 's often used . phd a : `` subtracting more `` , meaning ? phd d : so you overestimate the noise spectrum . you multiply the noise spectrum by a factor , uh , which depends on the snr . phd a : oh , ok . i see . phd d : so , above twenty db , it 's one , so you just subtract the noise . phd a : mm - hmm . phd d : and then it 's b generally well , i use , actually , a linear , uh , function of the snr , phd a : mm - hmm . phd d : which is bounded to , like , two or three , { comment } when the snr is below zero db . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : um , doing just this , uh , either on the fft bins or on the mel bands , um , t does n't yield any improvement professor c : oh ! um , uh , what are you doing with negative , uh , powers ? phd d : o yeah . so there is also a threshold , of course , because after subtraction you can have negative energies , phd a : mm - hmm . phd d : and so what i i just do is to put , uh to to add to put the threshold first and then to add a small amount of noise , which right now is speech - shaped . um phd a : speech - shaped ? phd d : yeah , so it 's a it has the overall overall energy , uh pow it has the overall power spectrum of speech . so with a bump around one kilohertz . phd a : so when y when you talk about there being something less than zero after subtracting the noise , is that at a particular frequency bin ? phd d : i uh - huh . yeah . there can be frequency bins with negative values . phd a : and so when you say you 're adding something that has the overall shape of speech , is that in a in a particular frequency bin ? or you 're adding something across all the frequencies when you get these negatives ? phd d : for each frequencies i a i 'm adding some , uh , noise , but the a the amount of the amount of noise i add is not the same for all the frequency bins . phd a : ah ! ok . i gotcha . right . phd d : uh . right now i do n't think if it makes sense to add something that 's speech - shaped , because then you have silence portion that have some spectra similar to the sp the overall speech spectra . phd a : mm - hmm . phd d : but yeah . so this is something i can still work on , phd a : so what does that mean ? phd d : but hmm . phd a : i 'm trying to understand what it means when you do the spectral subtraction and you get a negative . it means that at that particular frequency range you subtracted more energy than there was actually phd d : that means that mm - hmm . yeah . so so yeah , you have an an estimation of the noise spectrum , but sometimes , of course , it 's as the noise is not perfectly stationary , sometimes this estimation can be , uh , too small , so you do n't subtract enough . but sometimes it can be too large also . if if the noise , uh , energy in this particular frequency band drops for some reason . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . so in in an ideal word i world { comment } if the noise were always the same , then , when you subtracted it the worst that i you would get would be a zero . i mean , the lowest you would get would be a zero , cuz i if there was no other energy there you 're just subtracting exactly the noise . professor c : right . phd d : mm - hmm , professor c : yep , there 's all there 's all sorts of , uh , deviations from the ideal here . phd d : yeah . professor c : i mean , for instance , you 're you 're talking about the signal and noise , um , at a particular point . and even if something is sort of stationary in ster terms of statistics , there 's no guarantee that any particular instantiation or piece of it is exactly a particular number or bounded by a particular range . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so , you 're figuring out from some chunk of of of the signal what you think the noise is . then you 're subtracting that from another chunk , phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : and there 's absolutely no reason to think that you 'd know that it would n't , uh , be negative in some places . phd d : mm - hmm . hmm . professor c : uh , on the other hand that just means that in some sense you 've made a mistake because you certainly have stra subtracted a bigger number than is due to the noise . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : um also , we speak the whole where all this stuff comes from is from an assumption that signal and noise are uncorrelated . and that certainly makes sense in s in in a statistical interpretation , that , you know , over , um , all possible realizations that they 're uncorrelated phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : or assuming , uh , ergodicity that i that i um , across time , uh , it 's uncorrelated . but if you just look at a quarter second , uh , and you cross - multiply the two things , uh , you could very well , uh , end up with something that sums to something that 's not zero . so in fact , the two signals could have some relation to one another . and so there 's all sorts of deviations from ideal in this . and and given all that , you could definitely end up with something that 's negative . but if down the road you 're making use of something as if it is a power spectrum , um , then it can be bad to have something negative . now , the other thing i wonder about actually is , what if you left it negative ? what happens ? phd b : is that the log ? professor c : i mean , because um , are you taking the log before you add them up to the mel ? phd b : after that . no , after . professor c : right . so the thing is , i wonder how if you put your thresholds after that , i wonder how often you would end up with , uh with negative values . phd b : but you will but you end up reducing some neighboring frequency bins @ @ in the average , right ? when you add the negative to the positive value which is the true estimate . professor c : yeah . but nonetheless , uh , you know , these are it 's another f kind of smoothing , right ? that you 're doing . phd b : yeah . professor c : right . so , you 've done your best shot at figuring out what the noise should be , and now i then you 've subtracted it off . and then after that , instead of instead of , uh , uh , leaving it as is and adding things adding up some neighbors , you artificially push it up . which is , you know , it 's there 's no particular reason that that 's the right thing to do either , right ? phd b : yeah , yeah . professor c : so , um , uh , i in fact , what you 'd be doing is saying , `` well , we 're d we 're we 're going to definitely diminish the effect of this frequency in this little frequency bin in the in the overall mel summation `` . it 's just a thought . i d i do n't know if it would be phd a : sort of the opposite of that would be if if you find out you 're going to get a negative number , you do n't do the subtraction for that bin . phd b : yeah . uh - huh . that is true . professor c : nnn , yeah , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : although phd a : that would be almost the opposite , right ? instead of leaving it negative , you do n't do it . if your if your subtraction 's going to result in a negative number , you you do n't do subtraction in that . professor c : yeah , but that means that in a situation where you thought that that the bin was almost entirely noise , you left it . phd a : yeah . yeah , i 'm just saying that 's like the opposite . phd b : we just yeah . professor c : yeah . phd a : yeah . professor c : well , yeah that 's that 's the opposite , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . phd d : and , yeah , some people also if it 's a negative value they , uh , re - compute it using inter interpolation from the edges and bins . phd b : for frames , frequency bins . professor c : yeah . phd d : well , there are different things that you can do . professor c : people can also , uh , reflect it back up and essentially do a full wave rectification instead of a instead of half wave . but it was just a thought that that it might be something to try . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yep . well , actually i tried , something else based on this , um , is to to put some smoothing , um , because it seems to to help or it seems to help the wiener filtering professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and , mmm so what i did is , uh , some kind of nonlinear smoothing . actually i have a recursion that computes yeah , let me go back a little bit . actually , when you do spectral subtraction you can , uh , find this this equivalent in the s in the spectral domain . you can uh compute , y you can say that d your spectral subtraction is a filter , um , and the gain of this filter is the , um , signal energy minus what you subtract , divided by the signal energy . and this is a gain that varies over time , and , you know , of course , uh , depending on the s on the noise spectrum and on the speech spectrum . and what happen actually is that during low snr values , the gain is close to zero but it varies a lot . mmm , and this this is the cause of musical noise and all these the { comment } the fact you we go below zero one frame and then you can have an energy that 's above zero . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and mmm . so the smoothing is i did a smoothing actually on this gain , uh , trajectory . but it 's the smoothing is nonlinear in the sense that i tried to not smooth if the gain is high , because in this case we know that , uh , the estimate of the gain is correct because we we are not close to to to zero , um , and to do more smoothing if the gain is low . mmm . um . yeah . so , well , basically that 's this idea , and it seems to give pretty good results , uh , although i 've just just tested on italian and finnish . and on italian it seems my result seems to be a little bit better than the wiener filtering , phd b : mm - hmm . yeah , the one you showed yesterday . phd d : right ? phd b : right ? professor c : yeah . phd d : uh , i do n't know if you have these improvement the detailed improvements for italian , finnish , and spanish there phd b : fff . no , i do n't have , for each , phd d : or you have just have your own . phd b : i i just just have the final number here . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so these numbers he was giving before with the four point three , and the ten point one , and so forth , those were italian , right ? phd b : yeah , yeah , yeah . so so , no , professor c : yeah . phd d : uh phd b : i actually did n't give you the number which is the final one , phd d : uh , no , we 've phd b : which is , after two stages of wiener filtering . i mean , that was i just well , like the overall improvement is like fifty - six point five . so , professor c : right . phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : i mean , his number is still better than what i got in the two stages of wiener filtering . phd d : yeah . professor c : right . phd d : on italian . but on finnish it 's a little bit worse , apparently . phd b : mm - hmm . phd d : um professor c : but do you have numbers in terms of word error rates on on italian ? so just so you have some sense of reference ? phd d : yeah . uh , so , it 's , uh , three point , uh , eight . professor c : uh - huh . phd d : am i right ? phd b : oh , ok . yeah , right , ok . phd d : and then , uh , d uh , nine point , uh , one . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and finally , uh , sixteen point five . professor c : and this is , um , spectral subtraction plus what ? phd d : plus plus nonlinear smoothing . well , it 's the system it 's exactly the sys the same system as sunil tried , professor c : on - line normalization and lda ? phd d : but professor c : yeah . yeah . phd d : yeah . but instead of double stage wiener filtering , it 's it 's this smoothed spectral subtraction . um , yeah . phd a : what is it the , um , france telecom system uses professor c : right . phd a : for do they use spectral subtraction , or wiener filtering , or ? phd b : they use spectral subtraction , right . phd d : for what ? phd b : french telecom . phd d : it it 's wiener filtering , phd b : oh , it 's it 's wiener filtering . phd d : am i right ? phd b : sorry . phd d : well , it 's some kind of wiener filtering phd b : yeah , filtering . yeah , it 's not exactly wiener filtering but some variant of wiener filtering . phd d : yeah . phd a : i see . phd b : yeah . professor c : yeah , plus , uh , i guess they have some sort of cepstral normalization , as well . phd b : s they have like yeah , th the just noise compensation technique is a variant of wiener filtering , phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : plus they do some some smoothing techniques on the final filter . the th they actually do the filtering in the time domain . phd d : yeah . phd b : so they would take this hf squared back , taking inverse fourier transform . and they convolve the time domain signal with that . phd a : oh , i see . phd b : and they do some smoothing on that final filter , impulse response . phd d : but they also have two two different smoothing @ @ . phd b : i mean , i 'm i 'm @ @ . phd d : one in the time domain and one in the frequency domain by just taking the first , um , coefficients of the impulse response . so , basically it 's similar . i mean , what you did , it 's similar phd b : it 's similar in the smoothing and phd d : because you have also two two kind of smoothing . phd b : yeah . phd d : one in the time domain , and one in the frequency domain , phd b : yeah . the frequency domain . phd d : yeah . phd a : does the smoothing in the time domain help phd d : um phd a : well , do you get this musical noise stuff with wiener filtering or is that only with , uh , spectral subtraction ? phd b : no , you get it with wiener filtering also . phd d : yeah . phd a : does the smoothing in the time domain help with that ? or some other smoothing ? phd b : oh , no , you still end up with zeros in the s spectrum . sometimes . phd d : yeah . professor c : i mean , it 's not clear that these musical noises hurt us in recognition . we do n't know if they do . phd b : yeah . professor c : i mean , they they sound bad . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah , i know . professor c : but we 're not listening to it , usually . phd d : mm - hmm . uh , actually the the smoothing that i did do here reduced the musical noise . well , it phd b : mm - hmm . yeah , yeah , the phd d : well , i can not you can not hear beca well , actually what i d did not say is that this is not in the fft bins . this is in the mel frequency bands . um so , it could be seen as a f a a smoothing in the frequency domain because i used , in ad mel bands in addition and then the other phase of smoothing in the time domain . mmm . but , when you look at the spectrogram , if you do n't have an any smoothing , you clearly see , like in silence portions , and at the beginning and end of speech , you see spots of high energy randomly distributed over the the spectrogram . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : um phd a : that 's the musical noise ? phd d : which is musical noise , phd a : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah , if if it if you listen to it uh , if you do this in the fft bins , then you have spots of energy randomly distributing . and if you f if you re - synthesize these spot sounds as , like , sounds , phd a : mm - hmm . phd d : uh professor c : well , none of these systems , by the way , have i mean , y you both are are working with , um , our system that does not have the neural net , phd d : and professor c : right ? phd b : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : ok . so one would hope , presumably , that the neural net part of it would would improve things further as as they did before . phd d : yeah . yeah . um yeah , although if if we , um , look at the result from the proposals , { comment } one of the reason , uh , the n system with the neural net was , um , more than well , around five percent better , is that it was much better on highly mismatched condition . i 'm thinking , for instance , on the ti - digits trained on clean speech and tested on noisy speech . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : uh , for this case , the system with the neural net was much better . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : but not much on the in the other cases . professor c : yeah . phd d : and if we have no , uh , spectral subtraction or wiener filtering , um , i the system is uh , we thought the neural neural network is much better than before , even in these cases of high mismatch . so , maybe the neural net will help less but , um professor c : maybe . phd a : could you train a neural net to do spectral subtraction ? professor c : yeah , it could do a nonlinear spectral subtraction phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : but i do n't know if it i mean , you have to figure out what your targets are . phd a : yeah , i was thinking if you had a clean version of the signal and and a noisy version , and your targets were the m f - uh , you know , whatever , frequency bins phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : right . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah , well , that 's not so much spectral subtraction then , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : but but but it 's but at any rate , yeah , people , uh phd a : people do that ? professor c : y yeah , in fact , we had visitors here who did that i think when you were here ba way back when . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , people d done lots of experimentation over the years with training neural nets . and it 's not a bad thing to do . it 's another approach . m i mean , it 's it , um phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : the objection everyone always raises , which has some truth to it is that , um , it 's good for mapping from a particular noise to clean but then you get a different noise . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : and the experiments we saw that visitors did here showed that it there was at least some , um , { comment } gentleness to the degradation when you switched to different noises . it did seem to help . so that you 're right , that 's another another way to go . phd a : how did it compare on i mean , for for good cases where it it uh , stuff that it was trained on ? did it do pretty well ? professor c : oh , yeah , it did very well . yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : but to some extent that 's kind of what we 're doing . i mean , we 're not doing exactly that , we 're not trying to generate good examples but by trying to do the best classifier you possibly can , for these little phonetic categories , phd a : mm - hmm . you could say it 's sort of built in . professor c : it 's yeah , it 's kind of built into that . and and that 's why we have found that it it does help . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : um so , um , yeah , i mean , we 'll just have to try it . but i i would i would i would imagine that it will help some . i mean , it we 'll just have to see whether it helps more or less the same , but i would imagine it would help some . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so in any event , all of this i was just confirming that all of this was with a simpler system . phd d : yeah , yeah . um , yeah , so this is th the , um well , actually , this was kind of the first try with this spectral subtraction plus smoothing , professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and i was kind of excited by the result . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : um , then i started to optimize the different parameters . and , uh , the first thing i tried to optimize is the , um , time constant of the smoothing . and it seems that the one that i chose for the first experiment was the optimal one , so uh , professor c : it 's amazing how often that happens . phd d : um , so this is the first thing . um yeah , another thing that i it 's important to mention is , um , that this has a this has some additional latency . um . because when i do the smoothing , uh , it 's a recursion that estimated the means , so of the g of the gain curve . and this is a filter that has some latency . and i noticed that it 's better if we take into account this latency . so , instead o of using the current estimated mean to , uh , subtract the current frame , it 's better to use an estimate that 's some somewhere in the future . um phd a : and that 's what causes the latency ? ok . phd b : you mean , the m the mean is computed o based on some frames in the future also ? professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . phd b : or or no ? phd d : it 's the recursion , so it 's it 's the center recursion , right ? phd b : mm - hmm . phd d : um and the latency of this recursion is around fifty milliseconds . professor c : one five ? one five ? five zero ? phd d : five zero , professor c : five zero . phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd b : i 'm sorry , why why is that delay coming ? like , you estimate the mean ? phd d : yeah , the mean estimation has some delay , right ? phd b : oh , yeah . phd d : i mean , the the filter that that estimates the mean has a time constant . phd b : it is n't ok , so it 's like it looks into the future also . ok . phd d : yeah . professor c : what if you just look into the past ? phd d : it 's , uh , not as good . it 's not bad . professor c : how m by how much ? phd d : um , it helps a lot over the ba the baseline but , mmm professor c : by how much ? phd d : it it 's around three percent , um , relative . professor c : worse . phd d : yeah . yeah . um , mmm so , uh professor c : it 's depending on how all this stuff comes out we may or may not be able to add any latency . phd d : yeah , but yeah . so , yeah , it depends . uh , y actually , it 's it 's l it 's three percent . right . mmm . yeah , b but i do n't think we have to worry too much on that right now while you kno . mm - hmm . professor c : um , s yeah , i mean , i think the only thing is that phd d : so professor c : i would worry about it a little . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : because if we completely ignore latency , and then we discover that we really have to do something about it , we 're going to be find ourselves in a bind . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so , um , you know , maybe you could make it twenty - five . you know what i mean ? phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah , just , you know , just be be a little conservative phd d : oh yes . professor c : because we may end up with this crunch where all of a sudden we have to cut the latency in half or something . phd d : s mm - hmm . yeah . um . so , yeah , there are other things in the , um , algorithm that i did n't , uh , @ @ a lot yet , which phd a : sorry . a quick question just about the latency thing . if if there 's another part of the system that causes a latency of a hundred milliseconds , is this an additive thing ? or c or is yours hidden in that ? phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : uh phd d : no , it 's it 's added . phd a : it 's additive . ok . phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : we can ok . we can do something in parallel also , in some like some cases like , if you wanted to do voice activity detection . phd a : uh - huh . phd b : and we can do that in parallel with some other filtering you can do . so you can make a decision on that voice activity detection and then you decide whether you want to filter or not . phd d : yeah . phd b : but by then you already have the sufficient samples to do the filtering . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : so so , sometimes you can do it anyway . phd a : i mean , could n't , uh i could n't you just also i mean , i if you know that the l the largest latency in the system is two hundred milliseconds , do n't you could n't you just buffer up that number of frames and then everything uses that buffer ? phd b : yeah . phd a : and that way it 's not additive ? professor c : well , in fact , everything is sent over in buffers cuz of is n't it the tcp buffer some ? phd b : you mean , the the data , the super frame or something ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah , yeah . phd d : yeah . phd b : yeah , but that has a variable latency because the last frame does n't have any latency phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : and first frame has a twenty framed latency . so you ca n't r rely on that latency all the time . professor c : yeah . phd b : because i mean the transmission over over the air interface is like a buffer . phd d : yeah . phd b : twenty frame phd a : yeah . phd b : twenty four frames . phd a : yeah . phd b : so but the only thing is that the first frame in that twenty - four frame buffer has a twenty - four frame latency . and the last frame does n't have any latency . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : because it just goes as phd a : yeah , i was n't thinking of that one in particular phd b : yeah . phd a : but more of , you know , if if there is some part of your system that has to buffer twenty frames , uh , ca n't the other parts of the system draw out of that buffer and therefore not add to the latency ? professor c : yeah . yeah . and and that 's sort of one of the all of that sort of stuff is things that they 're debating in their standards committee . phd a : oh ! hmm . phd d : mm - hmm . yeah . so , um , there is uh , { comment } these parameters that i still have to to look at . like , i played a little bit with this overestimation factor , uh , but i still have to to look more at this , um , at the level of noise i add after . uh , i know that adding noise helped , um , the system just using spectral subtraction without smoothing , but i do n't know right now if it 's still important or not , and if the level i choose before is still the right one . same thing for the shape of the the noise . maybe it would be better to add just white noise instead of speech shaped noise . professor c : that 'd be more like the jrasta thing in a sense . yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . um , yep . uh , and another thing is to yeah , for this i just use as noise estimate the mean , uh , spectrum of the first twenty frames of each utterance . i do n't remember for this experiment what did you use for these two stage phd b : i used ten just ten frames . yeah , because phd d : the ten frames ? phd b : i mean , the reason was like in ti - digits i do n't have a lot . i had twenty frames most of the time . phd d : mm - hmm . um . but , so what 's this result you told me about , the fact that if you use more than ten frames you can improve by t phd b : well , that 's that 's using the channel zero . if i use a channel zero vad to estimate the noise . phd d : oh , ok . phd b : which phd d : but this is ten frames plus plus phd b : channel zero dropping . phd d : channel uh , no , these results with two stage wiener filtering is ten frames phd b : t oh , this phd d : but possibly more . i mean , if channel one vad gives you phd b : f yeah . mm - hmm . yeah . phd d : yeah . ok . yeah , but in this experiment i did i did n't use any vad . i just used the twenty first frame to estimate the noise . and so i expected it to be a little bit better , if , uh , i use more more frames . um . ok , that 's it for spectral subtraction . the second thing i was working on is to , um , try to look at noise estimation , { comment } mmm , and using some technique that does n't need voice activity detection . um , and for this i u simply used some code that , uh , i had from from belgium , which is technique that , um , takes a bunch of frame , um , and for each frequency bands of this frame , takes a look at the minima of the energy . and then average these minima and take this as an an energy estimate of the noise for this particular frequency band . and there is something more to this actually . what is done is that , uh , these minima are computed , um , based on , um , high resolution spectra . so , i compute an fft based on the long , uh , signal frame which is sixty - four millisecond phd a : so you have one minimum for each frequency ? phd d : what what i what i d uh , i do actually , is to take a bunch of to take a tile on the spectrogram and this tile is five hundred milliseconds long and two hundred hertz wide . and this tile uh , in this tile appears , like , the harmonics if you have a voiced sound , because it 's it 's the ftt bins . and when you take the m the minima of of these this tile , when you do n't have speech , these minima will give you some noise level estimate , if you have voiced speech , these minima will still give you some noise estimate because the minima are between the harmonics . and if you have other other kind of speech sounds then it 's not the case , but if the time frame is long enough , uh , like s five hundred milliseconds seems to be long enough , { comment } you still have portions which , uh , are very close whi which minima are very close to the noise energy . professor c : i 'm confused . you said five hundred milliseconds but you said sixty - four milliseconds . which is which ? what ? phd d : sixty - four milliseconds is to compute the fft , uh , bins . professor c : yeah , phd d : the the fft . professor c : yeah . phd d : um , actually it 's better to use sixty - four milliseconds because , um , if you use thirty milliseconds , then , uh , because of the this short windowing and at low pitch , uh , sounds , the harmonics are not , wha uh , correctly separated . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : so if you take these minima , it b they will overestimate the noise a lot . professor c : so you take sixty - four millisecond f f ts and then you average them { comment } over five hundred ? or ? uh , what do you do over five hundred ? phd d : so i take to i take a bunch of these sixty - four millisecond frame to cover five hundred milliseconds , professor c : ah . ok . phd d : and then i look for the minima , professor c : i see . phd d : on the on on the bunch of uh fifty frames , right ? professor c : i see . phd d : mmm . so the interest of this is that , as y with this technique you can estimate u some reasonable noise spectra with only five hundred milliseconds of of signal , so if the the n the noise varies a lot , uh , you can track better track the noise , professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : which is not the case if you rely on the voice activity detector . so even if there are no no speech pauses , you can track the noise level . the only requirement is that you must have , in these five hundred milliseconds segment , { comment } you must have voiced sound at least . cuz this these will help you to to track the the noise level . um . so what i did is just to simply replace the vad - based , uh , noise estimate by this estimate , first on speechdat - car well , only on speechdat - car actually . and it 's , uh , slightly worse , like one percent relative compared to the vad - based estimates . um , i think the reason why it 's not better , is that the speechdat - car noises are all stationary . um . so , u y y there really is no need to have something that 's adaptive professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and uh , well , they are mainly stationary . um . but , i expect s maybe some improvement on ti - digits because , nnn , in this case the noises are all sometimes very variable . uh , so i have to test it . mmm . professor c : but are you comparing with something e i 'm i 'm p s a little confused again , i it uh , when you compare it with the v a d - based , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : vad - is this is this the ? phd d : it 's it 's the france - telecom - based spectra , s uh , wiener filtering and vad . so it 's their system but just i replace their noise estimate by this one . professor c : oh , you 're not doing this with our system ? phd d : in i i 'm not no , no . yeah , it 's our system but with just the wiener filtering from their system . right ? mmm . yeah . actually , th the best system that we still have is , uh , our system but with their noise compensation scheme , right ? professor c : right . but phd d : so i 'm trying to improve on this , and by by replacing their noise estimate by , uh , something that might be better . professor c : ok . but the spectral subtraction scheme that you reported on also re requires a a noise estimate . phd d : yeah . yeah . professor c : could n't you try this for that ? phd d : but i di professor c : do you think it might help ? phd d : not yet , because i did this in parallel , professor c : i see , phd d : and i was working on one and the other . professor c : i see . yeah . phd b : yeah . phd d : yeah , for for sure i will . i can try also , mmm , the spectral subtraction . phd b : so i 'm also using that n new noise estimate technique on this wiener filtering what i 'm trying . so i i have , like , some experiments running , i do n't have the results . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . yeah . phd b : i do n't estimate the f noise on the ten frames but use his estimate . professor c : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . um . yeah . i , um , also implemented a sp um spectral whitening idea which is in the , um , ericsson proposal . uh , the idea is just to um , flatten the log , uh , spectrum , um , and to flatten it more if the the probability of silence is higher . so in this way , you can also reduce somewhat reduce the musical noise and you reduce the variability if you have different noise shapes , because the the spectrum becomes more flat in the silence portions . um . yeah . with this , no improvement , uh , but there are a lot of parameters that we can play with and , um actually , this this could be seen as a soft version of the frame dropping because , um , you could just put the threshold and say that `` below the threshold , i will flatten comp completely flatten the the spectrum `` . and above this threshold , uh , keep the same spectrum . so it would be like frame dropping , because during the silence portions which are below the threshold of voice activity probability , { comment } uh , w you would have some kind of dummy frame which is a perfectly flat spectrum . and this , uh , whitening is something that 's more soft because , um , you whiten you just , uh , have a function the whitening is a function of the speech probability , so it 's not a hard decision . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : um , so i think maybe it can be used together with frame dropping and when we are not sure about if it 's speech or silence , well , maybe it has something do with this . professor c : it 's interesting . i mean , um , you know , in in jrasta we were essentially adding in , uh , white uh , white noise dependent on our estimate of the noise . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : on the overall estimate of the noise . uh , i think it never occurred to us to use a probability in there . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : you could imagine one that that that made use of where where the amount that you added in was , uh , a function of the probability of it being s speech or noise . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yeah , w yeah , right now it 's a constant that just depending on the the noise spectrum . phd b : there 's professor c : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor c : cuz that that brings in sort of powers of classifiers that we do n't really have in , uh , this other estimate . so it could be it could be interesting . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor c : what what what point does the , uh , system stop recording ? how much phd a : it 'll keep going till i guess when they run out of disk space , professor c : it went a little long ? i mean , disk phd a : but i think we 're ok . phd d : yeah . uh yeah , so there are with this technique there are some i just did something exactly the same as as the ericsson proposal but , um , the probability of speech is not computed the same way . and i think , i for yeah , for a lot of things , actually a g a good speech probability is important . like for frame dropping you improve , like you can improve from ten percent as sunil showed , if you use the channel zero speech probabilities . professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : for this it might help , um professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : s so , yeah . uh , so yeah , the next thing i started to do is to , uh , try to develop a better voice activity detector . and , um i d um yeah , for this i think we can maybe try to train the neural network for voice activity detection on all the data that we have , including all the speechdat - car data . um and so i 'm starting to obtain alignments on these databases . um , and the way i mi i do that is that i just use the htk system but i train it only on the close - talking microphone . and then i aligned i obtained the viterbi alignment of the training utterances . um it seems to be , uh i actually what i observed is that for italian it does n't seem th - there seems to be a problem . phd b : no . so , it does n't seems to help by their use of channel zero or channel one . phd d : well . because what ? phd b : uh , you mean their d the frame dropping , right ? yeah , it does n't phd d : yeah . yeah . so , u but actually the vad was trained on italian also , phd b : italian . phd d : so um , the c the current vad that we have was trained on , uh , t spine , right ? phd b : ti - digits . phd d : italian , and ti - digits with noise and uh , yeah . and it seems to work on italian but not on the finnish and spanish data . so , maybe one reason is that s s finnish and spanish noise are different . and actually we observed we listened to some of the utterances and sometimes for finnish there is music in the recordings and strange things , right ? phd b : yeah . phd d : um yeah , so the idea was to train all the databases and obtain an alignment to train on these databases , and , um , also to , um , try different kind of features , uh , as input to the vad network . and we came up with a bunch of features that we want to try like , um , the spectral slope , the , um , the degree o degree of voicing with the features that , uh , we started to develop with carmen , um , e with , uh , the correlation between bands and different kind of features , phd b : yeah . mm - hmm . phd d : and yeah . phd b : the energy also . phd d : the energy . phd b : yeah . professor c : yeah , right . phd d : yeah . of course . yeah . professor c : ok . well , hans - guenter will be here next week so i think he 'll be interested in all all of these things . and , so . phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : ok , shall we , uh , do digits ? professor c : yeah . phd a : want to go ahead , morgan ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on the mean log magnitude spectral subtraction </s> grad e : uh - huh . so that was encouraging . and , um , that that um , that 's encouraging for for the idea of using it in an interactive system like and , um , another issue i 'm i 'm thinking about is in the smartkom system . so say twe twelve seconds in the earlier test seemed like a good length of time , but what happens if you have less than twelve seconds ? and , um so i w bef before , um back in may , i did some experiments using , say , two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . in those i trained the models using mean subtraction with the means calculated over two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . and , um , here , i was curious , what if i trained the models using twelve seconds but i f i gave it a situation where the test set i was subtracted using two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . and , um so i did that for about three different conditions . and , um i mean , i th i think it was , um , four se i think i think it was , um , something like four seconds and , um , six seconds , and eight seconds . something like that . and it seems like it it it hurts compared to if you actually train the models { comment } using th that same length of time but it it does n't hurt that much . um , u usually less than point five percent , although i think i did see one where it was a point eight percent or so rise in word error rate . but this is , um , w where , um , even if i train on the , uh , model , and mean subtracted it with the same length of time as in the test , it the word error rate is around , um , ten percent or nine percent . so it does n't seem like that big a d a difference . professor c : but it but looking at it the other way , is n't it what you 're saying that it did n't help you to have the longer time for training , if you were going to have a short time for grad e : that that 's true . um , professor c : i mean , why would you do it , if you knew that you were going to have short windows in testing . phd a : yeah , it seems like for your i mean , in normal situations you would never get twelve seconds of speech , right ? i 'm not e u phd b : you need twelve seconds in the past to estimate , right ? or l or you 're looking at six sec seconds in future and six in professor c : yeah . grad e : um , t twelve s professor c : no , total . grad e : n n uh for the test it 's just twelve seconds in the past . phd b : no , it 's all oh , ok . phd a : is this twelve seconds of uh , regardless of speech or silence ? or twelve seconds of speech ? grad e : of of speech . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : the other thing , um , which maybe relates a little bit to something else we 've talked about in terms of windowing and so on is , that , um , i wonder if you trained with twelve seconds , and then when you were two seconds in you used two seconds , and when you were four seconds in , you used four seconds , and when you were six and you basically build up to the twelve seconds . so that if you have very long utterances you have the best , grad e : yeah . professor c : but if you have shorter utterances you use what you can . grad e : right . and that 's actually what we 're planning to do in professor c : ok . yeah . grad e : but s so i g so i guess the que the question i was trying to get at with those experiments is , `` does it matter what models you use ? does it matter how much time y you use to calculate the mean when you were , um , tra doing the training data ? `` professor c : right . but i mean the other thing is that that 's i mean , the other way of looking at this , going back to , uh , mean cepstral subtraction versus rasta kind of things , is that you could look at mean cepstral subtraction , especially the way you 're doing it , uh , as being a kind of filter . and so , the other thing is just to design a filter . you know , basically you 're you 're you 're doing a high - pass filter or a band - pass filter of some sort and and just design a filter . and then , you know , a filter will have a certain behavior and you loo can look at the start up behavior when you start up with nothing . grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : and and , you know , it will , uh , if you have an iir filter for instance , it will , um , uh , not behave in the steady - state way that you would like it to behave until you get a long enough period , but , um , uh , by just constraining yourself to have your filter be only a subtraction of the mean , you 're kind of , you know , tying your hands behind your back because there 's filters have all sorts of be temporal and spectral behaviors . grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : and the only thing , you know , consistent that we know about is that you want to get rid of the very low frequency component . phd b : but do you really want to calculate the mean ? and you neglect all the silence regions { comment } or you just use everything that 's twelve seconds , and grad e : um , you do you mean in my tests so far ? phd b : ye - yeah . grad e : most of the silence has been cut out . just there 's just inter - word silences . phd b : mm - hmm . and they are , like , pretty short . shor grad e : pretty short . phd b : yeah , ok . grad e : yeah . phd b : yeah . mm - hmm . so you really need a lot of speech to estimate the mean of it . grad e : well , if i only use six seconds , it still works pretty well . phd b : yeah . yeah . uh - huh . grad e : i saw in my test before . i was trying twelve seconds cuz that was the best in my test before and that increasing past twelve seconds did n't seem to help . phd b : hmm . huh . grad e : th um , yeah , i guess it 's something i need to play with more to decide how to set that up for the smartkom system . like , may maybe if i trained on six seconds it would work better when i only had two seconds or four seconds , and professor c : yeah . yeah . and , um yeah , and again , if you take this filtering perspective and if you essentially have it build up over time . i mean , if you computed means over two and then over four , and over six , essentially what you 're getting at is a kind of , uh , ramp up of a filter anyway . and so you may may just want to think of it as a filter . but , uh , if you do that , then , um , in practice somebody using the smartkom system , one would think { comment } if they 're using it for a while , it means that their first utterance , instead of , you know , getting , uh , a forty percent error rate reduction , they 'll get a uh , over what , uh , you 'd get without this , uh , um , policy , uh , you get thirty percent . and then the second utterance that you give , they get the full you know , uh , full benefit of it if it 's this ongoing thing . phd a : oh , so you you cache the utterances ? that 's how you get your , uh </s>
<s> what was the professor 's take on the 12 second mean ? </s> professor c : yeah , and again , if you take this filtering perspective and if you essentially have it build up over time . i mean , if you computed means over two and then over four , and over six , essentially what you 're getting at is a kind of , uh , ramp up of a filter anyway . and so you may may just want to think of it as a filter . but , uh , if you do that , then , um , in practice somebody using the smartkom system , one would think { comment } if they 're using it for a while , it means that their first utterance , instead of , you know , getting , uh , a forty percent error rate reduction , they 'll get a uh , over what , uh , you 'd get without this , uh , um , policy , uh , you get thirty percent . and then the second utterance that you give , they get the full you know , uh , full benefit of it if it 's this ongoing thing . phd a : oh , so you you cache the utterances ? that 's how you get your , uh professor c : well , i 'm saying in practice , yeah , phd a : ah . ok . professor c : that 's if somebody 's using a system to ask for directions or something , you know , they 'll say something first . and and to begin with if it does n't get them quite right , ma m maybe they 'll come back and say , `` excuse me ? `` phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , or some i mean it should have some policy like that anyway . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : and and , uh , uh , in any event they might ask a second question . and it 's not like what he 's doing does n't , uh , improve things . it does improve things , just not as much as he would like . and so , uh , there 's a higher probability of it making an error , uh , in the first utterance . phd a : what would be really cool is if you could have uh , this probably users would never like this but if you had could have a system where , before they began to use it they had to introduce themselves , verbally . professor c : mm - hmm . phd a : you know . `` hi , my name is so - and - so , professor c : yeah . phd a : i 'm from blah - blah - blah . `` and you could use that initial speech to do all these adaptations and professor c : right . grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : oh , the other thing i guess which which , uh , i do n't know much about as much as i should about the rest of the system but but , um , could n't you , uh , if you if you sort of did a first pass i do n't know what kind of , uh , uh , capability we have at the moment for for doing second passes on on , uh , uh , some kind of little small lattice , or a graph , or confusion network , or something . but if you did first pass with , um , the with either without the mean sub subtraction or with a a very short time one , and then , um , once you , uh , actually had the whole utterance in , if you did , um , the , uh , uh , longer time version then , based on everything that you had , um , and then at that point only used it to distinguish between , you know , top n , um , possible utterances or something , you you might it might not take very much time . i mean , i know in the large vocabulary stu uh , uh , systems , people were evaluating on in the past , some people really pushed everything in to make it in one pass but other people did n't and had multiple passes . and , um , the argument , um , against multiple passes was u u has often been `` but we want to this to be r you know have a nice interactive response `` . and the counterargument to that which , say , uh , bbn i think had , { comment } was `` yeah , but our second responses are second , uh , passes and third passes are really , really fast `` . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : so , um , if if your second pass takes a millisecond who cares ? um . grad e : s so , um , the the idea of the second pass would be waiting till you have more recorded speech ? or ? professor c : yeah , so if it turned out to be a problem , that you did n't have enough speech because you need a longer longer window to do this processing , then , uh , one tactic is you know , looking at the larger system and not just at the front - end stuff { comment } is to take in , um , the speech with some simpler mechanism or shorter time mechanism , grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : um , do the best you can , and come up with some al possible alternates of what might have been said . and , uh , either in the form of an n - best list or in the form of a lattice , or or confusion network , or whatever . grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : and then the decoding of that is much , much faster or can be much , much faster if it is n't a big bushy network . and you can decode that now with speech that you 've actually processed using this longer time , uh , subtraction . so i mean , it 's it 's common that people do this sort of thing where they do more things that are more complex or require looking over more time , whatever , in some kind of second pass . grad e : mm - hmm . ok . </s>
<s> what did grad e think about the goal of his experiment ? </s> grad e : uh - huh . so that was encouraging . and , um , that that um , that 's encouraging for for the idea of using it in an interactive system like and , um , another issue i 'm i 'm thinking about is in the smartkom system . so say twe twelve seconds in the earlier test seemed like a good length of time , but what happens if you have less than twelve seconds ? and , um so i w bef before , um back in may , i did some experiments using , say , two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . in those i trained the models using mean subtraction with the means calculated over two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . and , um , here , i was curious , what if i trained the models using twelve seconds but i f i gave it a situation where the test set i was subtracted using two seconds , or four seconds , or six seconds . and , um so i did that for about three different conditions . and , um i mean , i th i think it was , um , four se i think i think it was , um , something like four seconds and , um , six seconds , and eight seconds . something like that . and it seems like it it it hurts compared to if you actually train the models { comment } using th that same length of time but it it does n't hurt that much . um , u usually less than point five percent , although i think i did see one where it was a point eight percent or so rise in word error rate . but this is , um , w where , um , even if i train on the , uh , model , and mean subtracted it with the same length of time as in the test , it the word error rate is around , um , ten percent or nine percent . so it does n't seem like that big a d a difference . professor c : but it but looking at it the other way , is n't it what you 're saying that it did n't help you to have the longer time for training , if you were going to have a short time for grad e : that that 's true . um , professor c : i mean , why would you do it , if you knew that you were going to have short windows in testing . phd a : yeah , it seems like for your i mean , in normal situations you would never get twelve seconds of speech , right ? i 'm not e u phd b : you need twelve seconds in the past to estimate , right ? or l or you 're looking at six sec seconds in future and six in professor c : yeah . grad e : um , t twelve s professor c : no , total . grad e : n n uh for the test it 's just twelve seconds in the past . phd b : no , it 's all oh , ok . phd a : is this twelve seconds of uh , regardless of speech or silence ? or twelve seconds of speech ? grad e : of of speech . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : the other thing , um , which maybe relates a little bit to something else we 've talked about in terms of windowing and so on is , that , um , i wonder if you trained with twelve seconds , and then when you were two seconds in you used two seconds , and when you were four seconds in , you used four seconds , and when you were six and you basically build up to the twelve seconds . so that if you have very long utterances you have the best , grad e : yeah . professor c : but if you have shorter utterances you use what you can . grad e : right . and that 's actually what we 're planning to do in professor c : ok . yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on latency in the system </s> phd d : um , so this is the first thing . um yeah , another thing that i it 's important to mention is , um , that this has a this has some additional latency . um . because when i do the smoothing , uh , it 's a recursion that estimated the means , so of the g of the gain curve . and this is a filter that has some latency . and i noticed that it 's better if we take into account this latency . so , instead o of using the current estimated mean to , uh , subtract the current frame , it 's better to use an estimate that 's some somewhere in the future . um phd a : and that 's what causes the latency ? ok . phd b : you mean , the m the mean is computed o based on some frames in the future also ? professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . phd b : or or no ? phd d : it 's the recursion , so it 's it 's the center recursion , right ? phd b : mm - hmm . phd d : um and the latency of this recursion is around fifty milliseconds . professor c : one five ? one five ? five zero ? phd d : five zero , professor c : five zero . phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd b : i 'm sorry , why why is that delay coming ? like , you estimate the mean ? phd d : yeah , the mean estimation has some delay , right ? phd b : oh , yeah . phd d : i mean , the the filter that that estimates the mean has a time constant . phd b : it is n't ok , so it 's like it looks into the future also . ok . phd d : yeah . professor c : what if you just look into the past ? phd d : it 's , uh , not as good . it 's not bad . professor c : how m by how much ? phd d : um , it helps a lot over the ba the baseline but , mmm professor c : by how much ? phd d : it it 's around three percent , um , relative . professor c : worse . phd d : yeah . yeah . um , mmm so , uh professor c : it 's depending on how all this stuff comes out we may or may not be able to add any latency . phd d : yeah , but yeah . so , yeah , it depends . uh , y actually , it 's it 's l it 's three percent . right . mmm . yeah , b but i do n't think we have to worry too much on that right now while you kno . mm - hmm . professor c : um , s yeah , i mean , i think the only thing is that phd d : so professor c : i would worry about it a little . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : because if we completely ignore latency , and then we discover that we really have to do something about it , we 're going to be find ourselves in a bind . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so , um , you know , maybe you could make it twenty - five . you know what i mean ? phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah , just , you know , just be be a little conservative phd d : oh yes . professor c : because we may end up with this crunch where all of a sudden we have to cut the latency in half or something . phd d : s mm - hmm . yeah . um . so , yeah , there are other things in the , um , algorithm that i did n't , uh , @ @ a lot yet , which phd a : sorry . a quick question just about the latency thing . if if there 's another part of the system that causes a latency of a hundred milliseconds , is this an additive thing ? or c or is yours hidden in that ? phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : uh phd d : no , it 's it 's added . phd a : it 's additive . ok . phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : we can ok . we can do something in parallel also , in some like some cases like , if you wanted to do voice activity detection . phd a : uh - huh . phd b : and we can do that in parallel with some other filtering you can do . so you can make a decision on that voice activity detection and then you decide whether you want to filter or not . phd d : yeah . phd b : but by then you already have the sufficient samples to do the filtering . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : so so , sometimes you can do it anyway . phd a : i mean , could n't , uh i could n't you just also i mean , i if you know that the l the largest latency in the system is two hundred milliseconds , do n't you could n't you just buffer up that number of frames and then everything uses that buffer ? phd b : yeah . phd a : and that way it 's not additive ? professor c : well , in fact , everything is sent over in buffers cuz of is n't it the tcp buffer some ? phd b : you mean , the the data , the super frame or something ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah , yeah . phd d : yeah . phd b : yeah , but that has a variable latency because the last frame does n't have any latency phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : and first frame has a twenty framed latency . so you ca n't r rely on that latency all the time . professor c : yeah . phd b : because i mean the transmission over over the air interface is like a buffer . phd d : yeah . phd b : twenty frame phd a : yeah . phd b : twenty four frames . phd a : yeah . phd b : so but the only thing is that the first frame in that twenty - four frame buffer has a twenty - four frame latency . and the last frame does n't have any latency . phd a : mm - hmm . phd b : because it just goes as phd a : yeah , i was n't thinking of that one in particular phd b : yeah . phd a : but more of , you know , if if there is some part of your system that has to buffer twenty frames , uh , ca n't the other parts of the system draw out of that buffer and therefore not add to the latency ? professor c : yeah . yeah . and and that 's sort of one of the all of that sort of stuff is things that they 're debating in their standards committee . phd a : oh ! hmm . phd d : mm - hmm . yeah . so , um , there is uh , { comment } these parameters that i still have to to look at . like , i played a little bit with this overestimation factor , uh , but i still have to to look more at this , um , at the level of noise i add after . uh , i know that adding noise helped , um , the system just using spectral subtraction without smoothing , but i do n't know right now if it 's still important or not , and if the level i choose before is still the right one . same thing for the shape of the the noise . maybe it would be better to add just white noise instead of speech shaped noise . professor c : that 'd be more like the jrasta thing in a sense . yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . um , yep . uh , and another thing is to yeah , for this i just use as noise estimate the mean , uh , spectrum of the first twenty frames of each utterance . i do n't remember for this experiment what did you use for these two stage phd b : i used ten just ten frames . yeah , because phd d : the ten frames ? phd b : i mean , the reason was like in ti - digits i do n't have a lot . i had twenty frames most of the time . phd d : mm - hmm . um . but , so what 's this result you told me about , the fact that if you use more than ten frames you can improve by t phd b : well , that 's that 's using the channel zero . if i use a channel zero vad to estimate the noise . phd d : oh , ok . phd b : which phd d : but this is ten frames plus plus phd b : channel zero dropping . phd d : channel uh , no , these results with two stage wiener filtering is ten frames phd b : t oh , this phd d : but possibly more . i mean , if channel one vad gives you phd b : f yeah . mm - hmm . yeah . phd d : yeah . ok . yeah , but in this experiment i did i did n't use any vad . i just used the twenty first frame to estimate the noise . and so i expected it to be a little bit better , if , uh , i use more more frames . um . ok , that 's it for spectral subtraction . the second thing i was working on is to , um , try to look at noise estimation , { comment } mmm , and using some technique that does n't need voice activity detection . um , and for this i u simply used some code that , uh , i had from from belgium , which is technique that , um , takes a bunch of frame , um , and for each frequency bands of this frame , takes a look at the minima of the energy . and then average these minima and take this as an an energy estimate of the noise for this particular frequency band . and there is something more to this actually . what is done is that , uh , these minima are computed , um , based on , um , high resolution spectra . so , i compute an fft based on the long , uh , signal frame which is sixty - four millisecond phd a : so you have one minimum for each frequency ? phd d : what what i what i d uh , i do actually , is to take a bunch of to take a tile on the spectrogram and this tile is five hundred milliseconds long and two hundred hertz wide . and this tile uh , in this tile appears , like , the harmonics if you have a voiced sound , because it 's it 's the ftt bins . and when you take the m the minima of of these this tile , when you do n't have speech , these minima will give you some noise level estimate , if you have voiced speech , these minima will still give you some noise estimate because the minima are between the harmonics . and if you have other other kind of speech sounds then it 's not the case , but if the time frame is long enough , uh , like s five hundred milliseconds seems to be long enough , { comment } you still have portions which , uh , are very close whi which minima are very close to the noise energy . professor c : i 'm confused . you said five hundred milliseconds but you said sixty - four milliseconds . which is which ? what ? phd d : sixty - four milliseconds is to compute the fft , uh , bins . professor c : yeah , phd d : the the fft . professor c : yeah . phd d : um , actually it 's better to use sixty - four milliseconds because , um , if you use thirty milliseconds , then , uh , because of the this short windowing and at low pitch , uh , sounds , the harmonics are not , wha uh , correctly separated . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : so if you take these minima , it b they will overestimate the noise a lot . professor c : so you take sixty - four millisecond f f ts and then you average them { comment } over five hundred ? or ? uh , what do you do over five hundred ? phd d : so i take to i take a bunch of these sixty - four millisecond frame to cover five hundred milliseconds , professor c : ah . ok . phd d : and then i look for the minima , professor c : i see . phd d : on the on on the bunch of uh fifty frames , right ? professor c : i see . phd d : mmm . so the interest of this is that , as y with this technique you can estimate u some reasonable noise spectra with only five hundred milliseconds of of signal , so if the the n the noise varies a lot , uh , you can track better track the noise , professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : which is not the case if you rely on the voice activity detector . so even if there are no no speech pauses , you can track the noise level . the only requirement is that you must have , in these five hundred milliseconds segment , { comment } you must have voiced sound at least . cuz this these will help you to to track the the noise level . um . so what i did is just to simply replace the vad - based , uh , noise estimate by this estimate , first on speechdat - car well , only on speechdat - car actually . and it 's , uh , slightly worse , like one percent relative compared to the vad - based estimates . um , i think the reason why it 's not better , is that the speechdat - car noises are all stationary . um . so , u y y there really is no need to have something that 's adaptive professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and uh , well , they are mainly stationary . um . but , i expect s maybe some improvement on ti - digits because , nnn , in this case the noises are all sometimes very variable . uh , so i have to test it . mmm . professor c : but are you comparing with something e i 'm i 'm p s a little confused again , i it uh , when you compare it with the v a d - based , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : vad - is this is this the ? phd d : it 's it 's the france - telecom - based spectra , s uh , wiener filtering and vad . so it 's their system but just i replace their noise estimate by this one . professor c : oh , you 're not doing this with our system ? phd d : in i i 'm not no , no . yeah , it 's our system but with just the wiener filtering from their system . right ? mmm . yeah . actually , th the best system that we still have is , uh , our system but with their noise compensation scheme , right ? professor c : right . but phd d : so i 'm trying to improve on this , and by by replacing their noise estimate by , uh , something that might be better . professor c : ok . but the spectral subtraction scheme that you reported on also re requires a a noise estimate . phd d : yeah . yeah . professor c : could n't you try this for that ? phd d : but i di professor c : do you think it might help ? phd d : not yet , because i did this in parallel , professor c : i see , phd d : and i was working on one and the other . professor c : i see . yeah . phd b : yeah . phd d : yeah , for for sure i will . i can try also , mmm , the spectral subtraction . phd b : so i 'm also using that n new noise estimate technique on this wiener filtering what i 'm trying . so i i have , like , some experiments running , i do n't have the results . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . yeah . phd b : i do n't estimate the f noise on the ten frames but use his estimate . professor c : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . um . yeah . i , um , also implemented a sp um spectral whitening idea which is in the , um , ericsson proposal . uh , the idea is just to um , flatten the log , uh , spectrum , um , and to flatten it more if the the probability of silence is higher . so in this way , you can also reduce somewhat reduce the musical noise and you reduce the variability if you have different noise shapes , because the the spectrum becomes more flat in the silence portions . um . yeah . with this , no improvement , uh , but there are a lot of parameters that we can play with and , um actually , this this could be seen as a soft version of the frame dropping because , um , you could just put the threshold and say that `` below the threshold , i will flatten comp completely flatten the the spectrum `` . and above this threshold , uh , keep the same spectrum . so it would be like frame dropping , because during the silence portions which are below the threshold of voice activity probability , { comment } uh , w you would have some kind of dummy frame which is a perfectly flat spectrum . and this , uh , whitening is something that 's more soft because , um , you whiten you just , uh , have a function the whitening is a function of the speech probability , so it 's not a hard decision . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : um , so i think maybe it can be used together with frame dropping and when we are not sure about if it 's speech or silence , well , maybe it has something do with this . professor c : it 's interesting . i mean , um , you know , in in jrasta we were essentially adding in , uh , white uh , white noise dependent on our estimate of the noise . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : on the overall estimate of the noise . uh , i think it never occurred to us to use a probability in there . phd d : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> why did the professor not like latency ? </s> professor c : it 's depending on how all this stuff comes out we may or may not be able to add any latency . phd d : yeah , but yeah . so , yeah , it depends . uh , y actually , it 's it 's l it 's three percent . right . mmm . yeah , b but i do n't think we have to worry too much on that right now while you kno . mm - hmm . professor c : um , s yeah , i mean , i think the only thing is that phd d : so professor c : i would worry about it a little . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : because if we completely ignore latency , and then we discover that we really have to do something about it , we 're going to be find ourselves in a bind . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so , um , you know , maybe you could make it twenty - five . you know what i mean ? phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah , just , you know , just be be a little conservative </s>
<s> how long was the latency ? </s> phd d : it 's the recursion , so it 's it 's the center recursion , right ? phd b : mm - hmm . phd d : um and the latency of this recursion is around fifty milliseconds . professor c : one five ? one five ? five zero ? phd d : five zero , professor c : five zero . phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd b : i 'm sorry , why why is that delay coming ? like , you estimate the mean ? phd d : yeah , the mean estimation has some delay , right ? phd b : oh , yeah . phd d : i mean , the the filter that that estimates the mean has a time constant . phd b : it is n't ok , so it 's like it looks into the future also . ok . phd d : yeah . professor c : what if you just look into the past ? phd d : it 's , uh , not as good . it 's not bad . professor c : how m by how much ? phd d : um , it helps a lot over the ba the baseline but , mmm professor c : by how much ? phd d : it it 's around three percent , um , relative . professor c : worse . phd d : yeah . yeah . um , mmm so , uh professor c : it 's depending on how all this stuff comes out we may or may not be able to add any latency . phd d : yeah , but yeah . so , yeah , it depends . uh , y actually , it 's it 's l it 's three percent . right . mmm . yeah , b but i do n't think we have to worry too much on that right now while you kno . mm - hmm . professor c : um , s yeah , i mean , i think the only thing is that phd d : so professor c : i would worry about it a little . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : because if we completely ignore latency , and then we discover that we really have to do something about it , we 're going to be find ourselves in a bind . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : so , um , you know , maybe you could make it twenty - five . you know what i mean ? phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah , just , you know , just be be a little conservative phd d : oh yes . professor c : because we may end up with this crunch where all of a sudden we have to cut the latency in half or something . phd d : s mm - hmm . yeah . um . so , yeah , there are other things in the , um , algorithm that i did n't , uh , @ @ a lot yet , which phd a : sorry . a quick question just about the latency thing . if if there 's another part of the system that causes a latency of a hundred milliseconds , is this an additive thing ? or c or is yours hidden in that ? phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : uh phd d : no , it 's it 's added . phd a : it 's additive . ok . phd d : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : project manager : okay . marketing : . project manager : right . okay . alright . is everyone here ? marketing : yep . project manager : okay . this is our conceptual design meeting . and i 'll just take a few minutes and uh go through the previous minutes . um then each of you will have your presentation , um and then we will need to make a decision on the concept for the remote control . and then we 'll have uh forty minutes for finishing up . um i 'll go through the mee through the minutes first . um , we just refreshed our our uh goal of making the finest remote control available . industrial designer : project manager : um we decided that , or we know that we need to use company colours , company logo . um and our marketing expert uh gave us some i uh information from interviews with a hundred different remote users . um with some statistics that backed basically what we were thinking before . people thought their remotes were ugly , um um that remotes zap a lot . um they only use uh a finite amount of buttons . industrial designer : project manager : um and that they often lose the it 's easy to lose a remote . um which were all things we were thinking we would wan na make it simple . um and uh some sort of locator . either a button or tracking device . um and that it should look different than what 's out there . um kind of mixed mixed response on the speech recognition . the younger people said they wanted it , older people did not . um uh i think we decided that um the expense was not necessarily worth it , and that it was probably a gimmick , that um would increasingly wear on the consumers ' nerves . um then the user interface designer um explored some of the technical functions of the remote . um the simple versus the um the complex . the simple one being better for a user , the complex better for an engineer . um um and some personal preferences that were found in that would be that it should be a user-oriented remote , something simple . um and that we did n't wan na go with a universal remote , because uh increasing cost and increasing complexity . um we would just have a tv remote . um and that we should also focus on the appearance of the remote . have it s be something that looks different . and finally our um industrial designer uh gave us a rundown of how the remote will work . um from energy source , um uh what we would use . batteries because we do n't wan na have a a cable . um how that would power the remote and the lamp . if we were to to have one . uh um the user interface then would connect to a chip , which would work with the infrared controls uh to send the signal to the tv . um i believe then we came up with a couple of ideas for what we think the design of the remote will be . um um something that will fit into uh easily into someone 's hand . and with a , just a few buttons . just the basics . and with a scrolling um function also . okay and i will leave that , leave it at that . so marketing ? marketing : okay . project manager : we 're watching trends . marketing : yep . can i have your cable please ? project manager : i suppose that you can have this . industrial designer : marketing : thanks . okay so i was looking at trend-watching . um unfortunately i was n't given too much information . i was given a brief executive summary , and then an update on some recent fashion trends that we might like to look at . and then i 'll just tell you some personal preferences that i got from that . um okay the most important finding was that the fancy look-and-feel seems to be twice as important to the users as the current functional look-and-feel design , which i think we 've kind of already discussed before . um the second most important finding was that the remote should be technologically innovative . and again these are all things we 've kind of already come up with on our own , but this just backs it up . and thirdly the remote would be easy to use . as far as fashion update , we 've learned that fruits and vegetables will be the most important theme for cloths , shoes and furniture . industrial designer : marketing : so that might be a bit of a challenge to incorporate this into our remote , but we can try . um and also , as opposed to last year , this year the material is expected to be spongy in feel . okay so from that um , as we 've already said , we need to focus on a fancy look-and-feel . um i think we 've already discovered that it 's kind of hard to go away from the traditional rectangular design . but i think that , even if it 's very subtle , we need to kind of trick our consumers , so they at least get the idea that they 're getting something that 's new and modern and sleek and whether it 's through the shape or the colours or all of that . um for technologically innovative , we 've talked about the tracking device . we brought up the idea of having two pieces , which we could discuss further . and manuel had suggested um the energy source and the user interface , discussing some of those , um that we could change a little bit . we need to keep it simple , have limited buttons , which i think the two piece idea might be really beneficial for . um we need to incorporate this fashion trend of fruits and vegetables . i do n't know , i mean i guess the two options are if we had our remote in the shape of a fruit or vegetable . project manager : a banana shape ? user interface : oh it was sort of banana shaped . marketing : yeah . yeah . right . or with exterior designs . but my question is , i mean the stereotypically speaking , you kind of picture males with their remote controls , and i 'm not sure how they 'd feel about having fruity logos on the outside . project manager : marketing : so maybe we could have something that 's somewhat removable , or i do n't know , different options for female , male target groups . and then the spongy feel . i guess we could look at mobile phones and other technology that 's out there . c and look at different types of material that might please our users who want spongy-feeling remote controls . so that 's that . project manager : so possibly like a uh , industrial designer : alright . marketing : project manager : sorry , just to butt in for a second . possibly uh like a cover like they have for mobile phones ? marketing : that 's what i was thinking yeah . user interface : those like , yeah , sort of spongy ones . project manager : you have one with a flag , and one with a banana and one that 's a spongy user interface : marketing : yeah . so when you buy your remote you can buy project manager : feel to it . you can marketing : various coverings . project manager : mm various covers . user interface : what 's it called ? cust you personalised , yeah . marketing : personalise your remote . project manager : we could leave that to the cover department . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : we all know they 've got nothing to do all day . industrial designer : marketing : industrial designer : user interface : okay . why ca n't i see the crazy . um yeah i talking about the interface concept and how the customer relates to , will use the , consumer will use the actual device . um so i 've looked at some of the stuff i was sent , um , try and get some inspiration . but keep in mind that our own ideas that we had . um i was sent some information from the company saying that they , the technology department have devised a new speech recognition technology , where you can program questions into such devices . they gave an example of a coffee machine where you program a question , you program the answer , and the machine responds accordingly . um okay . there 's different ways of a user can use products l like a remote . um there 's a graphical use , where you you look at pictures and well on a screen . a command line where you obviously type things in , and you get a response . um and then it ju that 's just to point out the sort of inconsistent u sort of use of interface in remotes . you ca n't really see that picture well , but there 's various different remotes , once again with lots of different buttons on , making it more complicated . industrial designer : user interface : so , then i had a look at new products that are on the market . not necessarily remote controls but ones that you 'll recognise . um this is the voice , there is a voice recognition remote control , which can control mus multiple devices . i have a there is a picture . you surf your favourite channels uh with your voice . store up to eighty speech samples , controls four devices , tv , cable , satellite , v_c_r_ , d_v_d_ and audio . and you can record your own v verbal labels , that are connected to remote control functions . so the technology is there . um the one on the left is very similar to what we drew up on the board in the previous meeting , where there has scroll down functions on the side . you can sort of just make those out . and then on the right is obviously an ipod , which is you know possibly one of the simplest things to use out there , and really is , and all that is is just a a nice big scroll menu that y you sort of go through . that is a possibility . and nothing 's simpler really . um then there 's things like this , which is a a a kid 's remote , where the the parents have the facility to control and program what children can watch before . so the remote control it o only allows them to access the channels that their parents want them to watch . and um it means that th children have a novelty of having their own remote control . so i do n't know if there 's a possibility of having one remote contr you know like we just had two components , maybe it can have more components you know , different remotes . um the point made at the end there here is that you have to be sort of be need to be clear on your um devices , as to what , you know , things you use . sometimes an arrow pointing down , which may suggest volume down , could become confused just as a v_ for volume . just little things like that , which would need to be made clear in the design . um i think , d carrying on from what i 've already said , a user friendly remote with minimum buttons . maybe we 've so suggested this two-part thing , where if it was to have a speech recognition thing , you could maybe control that on the do it or program all that on the control bit . and then just have the simple sort of hand-held thing that we sort of devised earlier , as the actual remote . um i do n't it could be a graphical display , the actual remote contr the actual control port maybe could have like an ipod where you just sort of control through the menus . stuff like gets more and more compli complicated . and then the the hand-held bit should be ergonomically designed . and that is it . why am i oh yeah . just . where are we ? uh . just to sort of show you . m they 've even got things like that . project manager : user interface : huge things . which is just for your gr ninety year old grandma yeah ? project manager : marketing : industrial designer : that 's industrial design for cranes , stuff like that . user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : notice the giant dog bone shape ? marketing : dunno . industrial designer : makes sense , makes sense . user interface : and that yeah . industrial designer : project manager : also good for animals . user interface : yeah . see . things . . why 's my screen crazy ? industrial designer : uh well let 's see . i 'm going to bore you with a couple of descriptions of the interior . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : just to to make it more obvious what we have to fit in there , and that we do have to fit the stuff in there . i 've more information on possible materials um as well . what we can and can not do . um but let 's just wait for this to load up and i 'll show you what we 're talking about here . okay . the details of the components ' design , as you can see there , what we have is the board , main board of the remote control . the underside , that 's pretty cheap piece of of technology really top left side you can see the chip , which is the , what we were talking about , this was is the device to recognise the signals the input , and it passes it on to a row of um further transistors and stuff like that on the right side that actually amplify the signal , which later on is being , is being transferred to a infrared lamp which then um of course shines infrared light onto the television which then will recognise what signal um it 's getting and will do what you tell it . um so much for the the workings of the of the uh remote control itself . its job is to wait for you to press a key , then to translate that key press into infrared light signals , um that are received by the television . when you press a key um you complete a specific connection . the chip senses the connection and knows what button you pressed . it produces a morse code line signal specific to that button . right . pretty clear . transistor amplifies the signal and then sends the m sends the signal to the l_e_d_ which translates the signal into infrared light . the sensor in the tv can see the infrared light , and seeing the signal reacts appropriately . this is the circuit board from the other side . um the lower part of it , i do n't know if you can see that properly , with the green greenish board is is what we what we saw in the first the first slide just flipped over . um you can see the circuit board itself . that 's the cheapest uh way to make electronic connections basically on the market . um what you do is you have , do n't have cables , but you have the connections actually in these in these lines on the on the board . these are the actual keys that are being pressed . they close the electric circuit . that then sends the signal to the chip on the other side . that would be behind here . um which uh sends it over to the transistors and all that stuff that marketing : industrial designer : amplify the signal and all that is being sent to the infrared lamp up there . now as you can see this is the the rubber button version of it . um the way it works is that you have the keys here . the rubber button has a little metal uh plate on the other side , which closes the circuit here . and thus gives on the signal . now this is the simple version . um we are talking um this this the simple and cheapest version at the same time . we are talking something more complicated of course , it 's going to be more expensive as well . and not only that . um we are also restricted in the use of our outer shell , or in the material that we could use for our outer shell . um i 've gotten some information that we could use for the case material plastic , rubber , as well . um rubber that is used in these anti-stress balls . so it 's pretty squishy . that would that would serve that purpose . marketing : spongy ? industrial designer : um we could also use wood , or titanium . project manager : what 's the approximate per hundred thousand for the titanium ? user interface : marketing : user interface : industrial designer : oh fya marketing : industrial designer : i do n't have an information on that . however our company obviously can provide us with uh with the titanium , so i assume , i 'm , i was given an okay to use it . project manager : industrial designer : it certainly is an expensive material , project manager : industrial designer : i 'm aware of that , but i was given an okay . marketing : industrial designer : but there are certain restrictions to certain materials . now let 's first go through the list with the materials . so we what we can use is plastic , rubber , wood and titanium . can also mix these . um as for the energy source , um we were talking about that shortly in the other meeting . um what we could use is , or what i was offered , or what we could use , is a basic bateer battery . right ? uh a dynamo . interestingly enough . marketing : industrial designer : um we could use solar cells . or a device that was not n not further specified that provides kinetic energy . such as like watches you know . where you just move them m move the the actual device and this pr uh provides it with with uh some energy . so um obviously i personally have to say that dynamo is out of the question really . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : you do n't wan na wind up your remote control before you can use it right ? um solar cell is interesting . may fail though , every here and there . user interface : would you have to leave it by the window ? industrial designer : mm . yeah user interface : yeah . industrial designer : . or you know you lose it , it lies behind the couch for a week user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and yeah mm . project manager : works well in arizona but in edinburgh not so industrial designer : always the you but marketing : y probably not yeah . industrial designer : exactly . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um the kinetic energy thing um might work , um but the same problem . you leave it lying around and you first have to shake it before it it starts to work . marketing : industrial designer : so i 'd say what we 're stuck with really is um the basic battery . which also makes a base station basically obsolete . we do n't need that then . um however our interface options are push-buttons . in which uh in the production of which or in manufacture of which um our company is expert . um however we 've discussed that scroll wheels are a better option . and they are possible . we have an okay for scroll wheels . okay . um however when it comes to the scroll wheel of the ipod i 've one big objection and that is that we have to fit an lcd into the remote control as well . this however may exclude certain um materials . if you have a squishy uh kind of remote control , then an lcd screen may be affected by the movement . hence we might not be able to put it in there . so um there 's also restrictions to , when it comes to the chip . if we have a more sophistic uh sophisticated scroll wheel rather than this very basic uh set-up that we that i 've just presented , um the chip has to be more s more sophisticated and thus more expensive as well . i do n't have any details to , when it comes to the cost but um it will be a significant difference . i 'd rather say drop the titanium and therefore let 's have a more sophisticated chip , but that 's not up to me to decide really . so that 's for the for the scroll wheel . um it limits our choice and squishy is hip , so i 'd say rather not go for for that . let 's see now . um um solar cells can not be used on a curved or latex um surface or um remote control . but obviously that 's not our problem um since we have decided or against solar cells , i assume right ? or is anybody still user interface : yeah . project manager : no i think i think batteries are probably the way to go . industrial designer : alright . marketing : no . hmm . industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh which makes it very conventional but therefore traditional i assume . um um with the titanium um we can not make it a curved design . we would just be able to make it flat and and um yeah a straight design pretty much . which i assume would exclude uh some of the more sophisticated versions . user interface : would the sort of spongy and the the plasticky thing y you can get those mobile phones that initially have a it is plastic but then they have sort of a a s a cover on it which is just sort of soft and stuff . marketing : mm . like a covering . yeah . user interface : so i do n't know if that would still be possible to have you know in plastic . but then where do people hold it ? project manager : yeah . user interface : just all be sort of spongy . marketing : the we can have the fruits and vegetables on the spongy parts , so they can remove it . user interface : so you as the the possibility of having a a graphical display on it , like a screen ? like the ipod ? industrial designer : you can have an lcd screen . um but therefore no rubber will be used . user interface : right . industrial designer : alright ? so plastic yes , titanium yes , but this will of course influence the form . with plastic , as i understand it , you can use any form . um latex is tricky . or rubber and um and titanium also seems to be tricky when it comes to the form . so the way to go is if you want a scroll wheel you either make it flat and angular , uh add an lcd screen , and um then you can basically choose either plastic or titanium . or wood even . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um if you wan na make it a particular shape , use plastic . add an lcd screen , add a scroll wheel , that 'll be fine . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or make it just push-buttons . basically plastic gives you the b biggest variety of of options . maybe not the nicest feel . or not much originality really . project manager : so the ru wait the rubbery we can shape it however we want ? or the rubbery we can not ? industrial designer : with rubber we could uh sh pretty much shape it the way we wanted it , project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : but we can not add scroll wheels , and we can not add an lcd screen . project manager : mm . industrial designer : that 's the tricky thing . user interface : could we not you know have a shape with a scroll and the screen , and then j just sort of that initial shape we had , just which is uh sort of banana-esque . so that 's thing if we did it yellow . project manager : yeah . user interface : and um you know you just p stick on just sort of rubber things that that sort of grip the thumb bit . they would n't have any they 're just on the exterior . they would n't be necessary to the actual shape of the thing . project manager : is that an option , a plastic shell with a rubbery coating on at certain spots ? industrial designer : s certainly can be done yes . um yeah . if that does n't affect the functional side of it all . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : like say just the underside or so then it can be done . i assume . yeah . so the fruit design um how about um affecting the surface of the actual um remote control ? say we do n't make it p a particular fruit shape obviously , but uh give it like the surface of an orange , banana , whatever . you name it . project manager : what about a smell ? industrial designer : just design-wise . user interface : marketing : project manager : t to the remote ? industrial designer : mm . nice one . user interface : you could just sell it in different colours as well i suppose . in different ye yellows . marketing : bright citrus colours yeah . user interface : i do n't suppose we have to stick to co industrial designer : well we we 're supposed to stick to the company colours though , user interface : stick to the colours yeah . marketing : oh yeah . industrial designer : that 's yellow and grey . marketing : yellow and grey . project manager : yellow and grey . industrial designer : so what have we , lemon , banana , is user interface : mm grapefruit . project manager : grapefruit . industrial designer : grapefruit marketing : industrial designer : is what we 'd go for , when it comes to the outer appearance perhaps . but mm . project manager : i would say , if i were to make a decision , i would probably put the fruit aspect at the lower lower end of the spectrum of of importance . user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : . project manager : um marketing : i think having a shape could be a little ridiculous , project manager : marketing : like user interface : yeah . industrial designer : well we have it banana-shaped already , kind of . marketing : well we kinda do yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so project manager : well perhaps the implied shape will be enough to lure that fruit-minded remote buyer . user interface : yeah . and if it if it was done yellow , which is a company colour . marketing : and if it 's yellow ? industrial designer : right . project manager : it 's it 's yellow . it 's curved . industrial designer : i it 's yellow . marketing : grey buttons yeah . project manager : it 's sort of industrial designer : well so why not add a couple of grey stripes and make it look like a banana ? project manager : couple of couple of grey stripes . marketing : user interface : yeah . project manager : we could put the grey stripes on the bottom so that that person could turn it over . user interface : on the the gr the rubbery grips could be grey . project manager : it would look like a banana just sitting on their table . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : there you go . project manager : rather than rather th industrial designer : marketing : user interface : it could and then you could actually h put the banana-shaped thing on the fruit bowl , on the coffee table , and then people would always know where it was . project manager : maybe the holder , if we were to have a holder , it could be shaped like a fruit . marketing : nice . could look like a fruit bowl . industrial designer : it could be an ape . project manager : could be , marketing : user interface : yeah . project manager : it could be an ape or a fruit bowl . we could have a variety of options here . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : do you have more to your presentation ? industrial designer : that 's pretty much it . i informed you about the materials , what the interior has to look like , and what the limitations to certain materials are on there you go . project manager : okay . i 'm gon na plug in here real quick . if i could . industrial designer : sure . hang on . there you go . project manager : like i said we have to make a decision on a couple of these items here . um ow . ow . marketing : so is the two piece idea out ? or have we not decided ? user interface : well we sort of rid of that because gon na use a battery . and the base station might not be necessary . marketing : oh right okay . industrial designer : well we can still design a two-piece uh remote um without having a base , having one of them be a base station , user interface : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : but just have it be an optional either big remote with lots of functions , or you take out the smaller piece . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we can still do that . however of course this would be like designing two remotes pretty much . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so um which then , as i understand it , would probably limit the , limit again the the the use of certain materials , because they would be too expensive . say like have a scroll wheel and uh on both of them , or have an lcd screen and so on so on . you 'd probably have to stick rather with a just traditional rubber button design which we saw there . marketing : mm . industrial designer : but could be done , of course . project manager : okay . uh so these are the decisions that we do need to make by the end of this meeting . um for our components concept we need to come up with the energy source , um the chip-on-print , and the case . probably case um material . and probably a shape also . um and then for the user interface concept we need to decide what the tape , what , what the type is . and what kind of supplements we 'll have . um energy source i think we 've , i think we 've decided batteries , although not exciting , are probably our best bet . industrial designer : right . project manager : and we have five minutes . industrial designer : okay when it comes to the chip-on-print , as i said , the the more advanced features you want , um the fancier the chip has to be and the more expensive . uh if you want just a normal button version , the chip-on-print is gon na be a cheap one . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : right ? project manager : so um i guess we should pick the case then . if we go with the plasticky case , or the the plastic case , um then the chip-on-print is still kind of , we could have either or . we could have a complex one or a a non-complex . but did we decide that the rubbery feel was important enough to us ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well what about what you said , like putting the user interface : just project manager : . user interface : just maybe marketing : finger grips just on top of the plastic ? user interface : yeah . just a little bit of . project manager : okay . so we would , we would have the lcd screen ? industrial designer : as long as the pla uh the rubber is nowhere near the controls , yes . project manager : 'kay . so i guess the case would be plastic , with perhaps that 's not even enough rubber to qualify as being part of it . it 's more of a su it 's more of a supplement maybe . industrial designer : . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : m more of a l lamination perhaps . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so then for the scroll , are we going for the ipod type ? user interface : yeah i think so . i think marketing : yeah ? okay . project manager : which will require a more expensive chip-on-print right ? industrial designer : yes . it does . project manager : 'kay . so i guess that , is that , is that about it ? so we have a good idea of what we 're gon na need to to do on this ? industrial designer : right . project manager : um okay so we will have another meeting in thirty minutes . um here 's what 's gon na be going on . um um ryan you 'll be working on the user interface design . um manuel you 'll be working on the look-and-feel design . industrial designer : right . project manager : corrine we 'll want a product evaluation . and the two of you get to play with the uh modelling components and uh user interface : marketing : project manager : maybe and and get us a prototype . which should go along well with your look-and-feel design and your interface . user interface : project manager : so that basically just be working on the prototype , uh we 'll accomplish your other two actions . industrial designer : project manager : alright . okay . let 's do it . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about merits of speech recognition inclusion ? </s> industrial designer : um we could also use wood , or titanium . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and yeah mm . project manager : works well in arizona but in edinburgh not so industrial designer : always the you but marketing : y probably not yeah . industrial designer : exactly . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um the kinetic energy thing um might work , um but the same problem . you leave it lying around and you first have to shake it before it it starts to work . marketing : industrial designer : so i 'd say what we 're stuck with really is um the basic battery . which also makes a base station basically obsolete . we do n't need that then . um however our interface options are push-buttons . in which uh in the production of which or in manufacture of which um our company is expert . um however we 've discussed that scroll wheels are a better option . and they are possible . we have an okay for scroll wheels . okay . um however when it comes to the scroll wheel of the ipod i 've one big objection and that is that we have to fit an lcd into the remote control as well . this however may exclude certain um materials . if you have a squishy uh kind of remote control , then an lcd screen may be affected by the movement . hence we might not be able to put it in there . so um there 's also restrictions to , when it comes to the chip . if we have a more sophistic uh sophisticated scroll wheel rather than this very basic uh set-up that we that i 've just presented , um the chip has to be more s more sophisticated and thus more expensive as well . i do n't have any details to , when it comes to the cost but um it will be a significant difference . i 'd rather say drop the titanium and therefore let 's have a more sophisticated chip , but that 's not up to me to decide really . so that 's for the for the scroll wheel . um it limits our choice and squishy is hip , so i 'd say rather not go for for that . let 's see now . um um solar cells can not be used on a curved or latex um surface or um remote control . but obviously that 's not our problem um since we have decided or against solar cells , i assume right ? or is anybody still user interface : yeah . project manager : no i think i think batteries are probably the way to go . industrial designer : alright . marketing : no . hmm . industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh which makes it very conventional but therefore traditional i assume . um um with the titanium um we can not make it a curved design . we would just be able to make it flat and and um yeah a straight design pretty much . which i assume would exclude uh some of the more sophisticated versions . user interface : would the sort of spongy and the the plasticky thing y you can get those mobile phones that initially have a it is plastic but then they have sort of a a s a cover on it which is just sort of soft and stuff . marketing : mm . like a covering . yeah . user interface : so i do n't know if that would still be possible to have you know in plastic . but then where do people hold it ? project manager : yeah . user interface : just all be sort of spongy . marketing : the we can have the fruits and vegetables on the spongy parts , so they can remove it . user interface : so you as the the possibility of having a a graphical display on it , like a screen ? like the ipod ? industrial designer : you can have an lcd screen . um but therefore no rubber will be used . user interface : right . industrial designer : alright ? so plastic yes , titanium yes , but this will of course influence the form . with plastic , as i understand it , you can use any form . um latex is tricky . or rubber and um and titanium also seems to be tricky when it comes to the form . so the way to go is if you want a scroll wheel you either make it flat and angular , uh add an lcd screen , and um then you can basically choose either plastic or titanium . or wood even . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um if you wan na make it a particular shape , use plastic . add an lcd screen , add a scroll wheel , that 'll be fine . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or make it just push-buttons . basically plastic gives you the b biggest variety of of options . maybe not the nicest feel . or not much originality really . project manager : so the ru wait the rubbery we can shape it however we want ? or the rubbery we can not ? industrial designer : with rubber we could uh sh pretty much shape it the way we wanted it , project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : but we can not add scroll wheels , and we can not add an lcd screen . </s>
<s> what did marketing think about the merits of speech recognition inclusion ? </s> user interface : so i do n't know if that would still be possible to have you know in plastic . but then where do people hold it ? project manager : yeah . user interface : just all be sort of spongy . marketing : the we can have the fruits and vegetables on the spongy parts , so they can remove it . user interface : so you as the the possibility of having a a graphical display on it , like a screen ? like the ipod ? industrial designer : you can have an lcd screen . um but therefore no rubber will be used . user interface : right . </s>
<s> what are the benefits of the speech recognition feature ? </s> industrial designer : um we could also use wood , or titanium . </s>
<s> summarize the group 's discussion of market research on remote control users ' desired features . </s> marketing : dunno . industrial designer : makes sense , makes sense . user interface : and that yeah . industrial designer : project manager : also good for animals . user interface : yeah . see . things . . why 's my screen crazy ? industrial designer : uh well let 's see . i 'm going to bore you with a couple of descriptions of the interior . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : just to to make it more obvious what we have to fit in there , and that we do have to fit the stuff in there . i 've more information on possible materials um as well . what we can and can not do . um but let 's just wait for this to load up and i 'll show you what we 're talking about here . okay . the details of the components ' design , as you can see there , what we have is the board , main board of the remote control . the underside , that 's pretty cheap piece of of technology really top left side you can see the chip , which is the , what we were talking about , this was is the device to recognise the signals the input , and it passes it on to a row of um further transistors and stuff like that on the right side that actually amplify the signal , which later on is being , is being transferred to a infrared lamp which then um of course shines infrared light onto the television which then will recognise what signal um it 's getting and will do what you tell it . um so much for the the workings of the of the uh remote control itself . its job is to wait for you to press a key , then to translate that key press into infrared light signals , um that are received by the television . when you press a key um you complete a specific connection . the chip senses the connection and knows what button you pressed . it produces a morse code line signal specific to that button . right . pretty clear . transistor amplifies the signal and then sends the m sends the signal to the l_e_d_ which translates the signal into infrared light . the sensor in the tv can see the infrared light , and seeing the signal reacts appropriately . this is the circuit board from the other side . um the lower part of it , i do n't know if you can see that properly , with the green greenish board is is what we what we saw in the first the first slide just flipped over . um you can see the circuit board itself . that 's the cheapest uh way to make electronic connections basically on the market . um what you do is you have , do n't have cables , but you have the connections actually in these in these lines on the on the board . these are the actual keys that are being pressed . they close the electric circuit . that then sends the signal to the chip on the other side . that would be behind here . um which uh sends it over to the transistors and all that stuff that marketing : industrial designer : amplify the signal and all that is being sent to the infrared lamp up there . now as you can see this is the the rubber button version of it . um the way it works is that you have the keys here . the rubber button has a little metal uh plate on the other side , which closes the circuit here . and thus gives on the signal . now this is the simple version . um we are talking um this this the simple and cheapest version at the same time . we are talking something more complicated of course , it 's going to be more expensive as well . and not only that . um we are also restricted in the use of our outer shell , or in the material that we could use for our outer shell . um i 've gotten some information that we could use for the case material plastic , rubber , as well . um rubber that is used in these anti-stress balls . so it 's pretty squishy . that would that would serve that purpose . marketing : spongy ? industrial designer : um we could also use wood , or titanium . project manager : what 's the approximate per hundred thousand for the titanium ? user interface : marketing : user interface : industrial designer : oh fya marketing : industrial designer : i do n't have an information on that . however our company obviously can provide us with uh with the titanium , so i assume , i 'm , i was given an okay to use it . project manager : </s>
<s> what features of the remote control did marketing think were important ? </s> user interface : and that yeah . industrial designer : project manager : also good for animals . user interface : yeah . see . things . . why 's my screen crazy ? industrial designer : uh well let 's see . i 'm going to bore you with a couple of descriptions of the interior . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : just to to make it more obvious what we have to fit in there , and that we do have to fit the stuff in there . i 've more information on possible materials um as well . what we can and can not do . um but let 's just wait for this to load up and i 'll show you what we 're talking about here . okay . the details of the components ' design , as you can see there , what we have is the board , main board of the remote control . the underside , that 's pretty cheap piece of of technology really top left side you can see the chip , which is the , what we were talking about , this was is the device to recognise the signals the input , and it passes it on to a row of um further transistors and stuff like that on the right side that actually amplify the signal , which later on is being , is being transferred to a infrared lamp which then um of course shines infrared light onto the television which then will recognise what signal um it 's getting and will do what you tell it . um so much for the the workings of the of the uh remote control itself . its job is to wait for you to press a key , then to translate that key press into infrared light signals , um that are received by the television . when you press a key um you complete a specific connection . the chip senses the connection and knows what button you pressed . it produces a morse code line signal specific to that button . right . pretty clear . transistor amplifies the signal and then sends the m sends the signal to the l_e_d_ which translates the signal into infrared light . the sensor in the tv can see the infrared light , and seeing the signal reacts appropriately . this is the circuit board from the other side . um the lower part of it , i do n't know if you can see that properly , with the green greenish board is is what we what we saw in the first the first slide just flipped over . um you can see the circuit board itself . that 's the cheapest uh way to make electronic connections basically on the market . um what you do is you have , do n't have cables , but you have the connections actually in these in these lines on the on the board . these are the actual keys that are being pressed . they close the electric circuit . that then sends the signal to the chip on the other side . that would be behind here . um which uh sends it over to the transistors and all that stuff that marketing : industrial designer : amplify the signal and all that is being sent to the infrared lamp up there . now as you can see this is the the rubber button version of it . um the way it works is that you have the keys here . the rubber button has a little metal uh plate on the other side , which closes the circuit here . and thus gives on the signal . now this is the simple version . um we are talking um this this the simple and cheapest version at the same time . we are talking something more complicated of course , it 's going to be more expensive as well . and not only that . um we are also restricted in the use of our outer shell , or in the material that we could use for our outer shell . um i 've gotten some information that we could use for the case material plastic , rubber , as well . um rubber that is used in these anti-stress balls . so it 's pretty squishy . that would that would serve that purpose . marketing : spongy ? </s>
<s> did marketing and user interface agree on desired features ? </s> user interface : and that yeah . industrial designer : project manager : also good for animals . user interface : yeah . see . things . . why 's my screen crazy ? industrial designer : uh well let 's see . i 'm going to bore you with a couple of descriptions of the interior . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : just to to make it more obvious what we have to fit in there , and that we do have to fit the stuff in there . i 've more information on possible materials um as well . what we can and can not do . um but let 's just wait for this to load up and i 'll show you what we 're talking about here . okay . the details of the components ' design , as you can see there , what we have is the board , main board of the remote control . the underside , that 's pretty cheap piece of of technology really top left side you can see the chip , which is the , what we were talking about , this was is the device to recognise the signals the input , and it passes it on to a row of um further transistors and stuff like that on the right side that actually amplify the signal , which later on is being , is being transferred to a infrared lamp which then um of course shines infrared light onto the television which then will recognise what signal um it 's getting and will do what you tell it . um so much for the the workings of the of the uh remote control itself . its job is to wait for you to press a key , then to translate that key press into infrared light signals , um that are received by the television . when you press a key um you complete a specific connection . the chip senses the connection and knows what button you pressed . it produces a morse code line signal specific to that button . right . pretty clear . transistor amplifies the signal and then sends the m sends the signal to the l_e_d_ which translates the signal into infrared light . the sensor in the tv can see the infrared light , and seeing the signal reacts appropriately . this is the circuit board from the other side . um the lower part of it , i do n't know if you can see that properly , with the green greenish board is is what we what we saw in the first the first slide just flipped over . um you can see the circuit board itself . that 's the cheapest uh way to make electronic connections basically on the market . um what you do is you have , do n't have cables , but you have the connections actually in these in these lines on the on the board . these are the actual keys that are being pressed . they close the electric circuit . that then sends the signal to the chip on the other side . that would be behind here . um which uh sends it over to the transistors and all that stuff that marketing : industrial designer : amplify the signal and all that is being sent to the infrared lamp up there . now as you can see this is the the rubber button version of it . um the way it works is that you have the keys here . the rubber button has a little metal uh plate on the other side , which closes the circuit here . and thus gives on the signal . now this is the simple version . um we are talking um this this the simple and cheapest version at the same time . we are talking something more complicated of course , it 's going to be more expensive as well . and not only that . um we are also restricted in the use of our outer shell , or in the material that we could use for our outer shell . um i 've gotten some information that we could use for the case material plastic , rubber , as well . um rubber that is used in these anti-stress balls . so it 's pretty squishy . that would that would serve that purpose . marketing : spongy ? industrial designer : um we could also use wood , or titanium . it certainly is an expensive material , </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone , and welcome to this morning 's children , young people and education committee . we 've received no apologies for absence . can i ask members who are present if they wish to declare any interests ? okay , thank you . item 2 this morning is our final evidence session for our inquiry into targeted funding to improve educational outcomes . i 'm very pleased to welcome kirsty williams am , cabinet secretary for education ; steve davies , director of the education directorate ; and ruth conway , deputy director , support for learners division . welcome to all of you , and thank you for your attendance and also for the paper that you 've provided in advance . if you 're happy , we 'll go straight into questions , and the first questions are from llyr gruffydd . llyr gruffydd am : bore da . i just want to start by asking some questions around the targeting of the pupil development grant because , clearly , we 've had a lot of evidence around this apparent blurring of eligibility to an extent . i 'm just wondering how comfortable you are that the money is being targeted appropriately because , clearly , it 's being targeted more widely than just those eligible for free school meals , from some of the evidence we 've had , but also that it seems to be predominantly focused on low-attaining frees—pupils who are eligible for free school meals . kirsty williams am : thank you , llyr . i think it 's important to be absolutely clear that when it comes to individual interventions , those individual interventions should only be targeted at those children who are eligible for free school meals . but in some cases , schools may use their pdg funding to provide a universal intervention , but we would want to—in challenge advisers ' discussions in schools—we 'd want to have evidence that that universal intervention would have a disproportionate effect on the outcomes for children on free school meals . so , for instance , if i give you an example in your own region , llyr : at brynteg county primary school in wrexham , if you look at that primary school in wrexham , their results for free-school-meal children at the end of their primary school period in school are equivalent to their non-free-school-meal counterparts . so , there is no differentiation in those results . one of the things that they 've used their pdg for is to really focus on the concept of growth mindset in school . so , that 's a universal thing that they 've trained all the teachers in , but what we know is that that has a disproportionate effect on those children who are on free school meals . so , if you 're familiar with the concept of a growth mindset , it 's about really challenging learners to think that , ' i can do things . if sometimes i fail , i pick myself up , i 'm more resilient . ' now , that has been , as i said , trained to all the teachers in the school—it 's an ethos for the whole school—but we have seen that the impact on the free-school-meal children has been even greater , and now they 're at the same level . so , that 's the important distinction . individual intervention per child has to be targeted at those children who are eligible for free school meals , but sometimes a school will employ a whole-school approach to train their staff , for instance , and that , then , has to demonstrate it has a disproportionate effect on free school meals . so , growth mindset ; it may be attachment disorder training for staff , for instance , where we know it 's of benefit to everybody , but will have particular benefits for that cohort of students . with regard to more able and talented , you know , llyr , that this is an area of concern for me , generally , within the welsh education system ; that we 've not been particularly good at identifying , supporting and driving attainment for those children . i 'm absolutely clear that pdg needs to be used for those children who are eligible to drive potential , whatever the potential of that child is , including more able and talented . and again , i 'll give you an example that has been seen as good practice in pembrokeshire : a window on the world bus , again paid for by schools . i do n't know if you 're aware of it . llyr gruffydd am : we 've heard about that . kirsty williams am : oh , you 've heard about it ; well , it 's a really good example the window on the world . and , again , that 's very much targeted at raising aspirations and giving children who are more able and talented , who are eligible for pdg , those experiences , and to really push them . so , yes , i 'm absolutely clear that pdg should n't just be seen to be getting individuals to the average . for those children who are more able and talented , it should be used to support them— llyr gruffydd am : and we all share those aspirations , i 'm sure , and you pointed to examples of good practice , but of course , it 's not universal , is it , so what i 'm asking is : do you think that the guidance is sufficient as it is ? do you think that there 's a great enough awareness of how the pdg should be used at the coalface ? and also , are you confident that consortia and others have the measures in place to be able to demonstrate that it is being used properly ? kirsty williams am : i think , if we look at what estyn has said about pdg , it does actually recognise that the pdg is being used to push more able and talented children , but as always with the system , llyr , it 's whether we can be sure that that is strategic and that it 's happening across all of our schools . so , you're— llyr gruffydd am : but not just in relation to more able and talented , i 'm referring to the eligibility and the targeting . kirsty williams am : oh , the eligibility . you 'll be aware that , on the advice of sir alasdair , we have employed and appointed new pdg regional advisers , and i think their role is going to be absolutely crucial in spreading that good practice across the region , whether that 's use of pdg for more able and talented , or ensuring that pdg is used in the appropriate way . so , that 's there to provide strategic overall advice . and obviously , we have been very clear with regional challenge advisers , in the relationship and the conversations they 're having with individual schools , that they 're really challenging their schools about the use of pdg , not just in terms of targeting , but the programmes , what the money is being spent on , whether there is an evidence base for that and whether we are clear on impact . so , i think the new regional advisers are going to be crucial in enabling us to ensure more consistent practice across the regions . llyr gruffydd am : so , are you content that eligibility for free school meals is the best measure , really , of identifying which pupils to target ? kirsty williams am : llyr , in the absence of anything better . i 'll be the first person to say that maybe it 's not as absolutely focused , but in the absence of anything different to identify a proxy for need , i think it 's probably the best that we 've got at present . and we will continue to have discussions with local government about whether there are different ways . we have to be mindful . some of the policy levers in this area are out of my hands , so if we look at the roll-out of universal credit , for instance , we 've got officials working very hard at the moment to try and understand what universal credit is going to mean and where we are going to be able to identify relative need , going forward . we have n't had any additional resource as a result of this , but we 're very mindful that , potentially , this has an impact , going forward . and , officials are working all of the time , i must say , in conjunction with the department in england , to understand their thinking in this area so that we are in a position to make some decisions about what a notional eligibility for free school meals will look like going forward , but before i make any decisions , i want to assure everybody that there will be a full public consultation on that . llyr gruffydd am : okay . finally for now , on this issue of once a year , in january , if you 're eligible for free school meals , then you 're in that group for that year . we 've had some quite strong evidence about how difficult that makes longer term planning for a number of schools and we 've also been pointed in the direction of what 's happened in england with the ever 6 , and i 'm just wondering whether you 're giving any thought to maybe changing that a little bit . kirsty williams am : well , we 're certainly giving thought to flexibility . in conversations with alasdair , who is our independent adviser on this agenda , and individual schools , we 're actively giving thought to greater flexibility and maybe longer term projections , so that schools know , for a number of years ahead , what their allocation will be . there are advantages to that system , because you could give that flexibility , you could give that long-term approach , but then , how do you make that responsive if a school suddenly has more children ? we do know that , actually , the number of free-school-meal pupils is dropping . but there can be changes , you know , regional working in areas of north wales in tourism , or maybe in other areas at christmas time , parents are able to get a period of work . so , how can we create a more flexible system ? we 're actively looking at that at the moment . i would n't use it as an ever 6 concept , but as an 'ever 2 ' concept . we have looked at ever 6 , and i 'm going to be absolutely blunt with you : to introduce an ever 6 concept for wales would mean in the region of identifying an additional £40 million . i 'm going to be absolutely straight and blunt with you : we 're not in a position at the moment to be able to identify an additional £40 million to introduce an ever 6 . but issues around flexibility , certainly , are actively under consideration . in fact , we 'll be having a discussion later on today about decisions , going forward , for the next two years . llyr gruffydd am : thank you . lynne neagle am : darren on this . darren millar am : it 's just a very brief point in response to the £40 million price ticket that you just put on that . that 's , of course , assuming that you maintain the current level of pdg , yes ? so , if you reduced the level of pdg slightly , but made it available to more individuals , if you like , via allocating it in a different way , then that £40 million price ticket would n't be there , would it ? kirsty williams am : i was asked a question about had i ever considered an ever 6 . we have looked at that , we 've priced that up . i have to make decisions in the envelope of resources that are available to me . we could , indeed , change the way in which we allocate pdg money , but we have to do it within the envelope that is available to me , over £90 million . that 's a significant level of investment , but , of course , as always , darren , we could cut the amount per pupil , but that might have quite challenging swings in allocations . what we have done—because what i am clear on is that there was evidence to suggest that in the secondary sector , a great deal of pdg was being focused on years 10 and 11 , especially year 11 , in catch-up provision , and you 'll be aware , because we 've said this in evidence to the committee in the papers , we 've set a challenge to secondary schools to say , 'actually , the majority of your pdg allocation has to be used in key stage 3 . ' now , we have to balance the needs , the moral hazard of turning round to children in years 10 and 11 and saying , 'we're not going to provide catch-up opportunities for you , ' because , clearly , those children need that support . but the evidence and the advice that we 're receiving is : actually , strong focus on early years , primary and key stage 3 , if we get that right , should negate the need for spending money on catch-up at years 10 and 11 . that 's why we , in our advice to local authorities and schools , say that we want to see evidence that they 're spending this money earlier on in a child 's career , rather than just a scramble at year 11 to say , 'right , we 've got to get you through your exams . ' darren millar am : okay , but have you actively considered , then , reducing the level you have ? kirsty williams am : we've— ruth conway : sorry—i was just going to say that one of the things is looking at the scope of the definition , and i think it 's about being more flexible with the definition , rather than reducing the amount per head . darren millar am : okay . thank you . lynne neagle am : thank you . if we can go on , then , to talk about some of the practical uses of the pdg , you write in your written paper that 'the majority of schools are making well thought out and appropriate decisions ' on how to use it . but estyn reported that only two thirds of primary and secondary schools make effective use of the pdg . given that we 've had it now for six years , would you not have expected there to be a higher level of schools actually making good use of that funding ? kirsty williams am : well , to flip it on its head , the vast majority of schools , as identified by estyn , are using this money to good effect . so , that 's the way i like to see it—that the vast majority of schools are doing well . what estyn has also indicated is the intrinsic link here to leadership within individual schools , and as you 'll be aware , leadership , improving capacity in leadership and developing leadership talent in the welsh education system is a key priority for me in our national mission . of course , that 's being developed in a different work stream . i think what 's fair to say is that the use of pdg is evolving over time . i think we are seeing , increasingly , more and more schools understanding how best to deploy that money for best effect for students . so , if we 're honest , when pdg first started , i think , in some schools it was spent on investing in tracking of children , because they 'd never thought about tracking these children , they did n't have systems in place to look at the performance of these children , and to have a system in place . so we 've moved now from spending money on the infrastructure around support for fsm children into actual inputs in terms of teaching and learning . we 're also seeing from estyn that , actually , in terms of money following the evidence of what we know works , estyn says that pdg is probably the best example of schools following tried and tested and evidence-based interventions to deploy the money . but clearly we want all of this money to be deployed as well as it can be , and again we come back to the decision i 've made to appoint regional pdg advisers so that we can get that better consistency of approach . we are , in the discussions that i have with the regional consortia about how they challenge individual schools on usage , looking for very clear evidence of schools using the sutton trust toolkit , and we could have a discussion about whether that 's the right thing , because that 's on my mind too . but we want to see schools demonstrating their evidence base , and if they 're not , if a school is n't doing that , okay , so demonstrate to us why you 've made those decisions and , crucially , what are you doing as the school to judge whether that decision is actually making a difference for your individual pupils . so , if you 're moving away from tried and tested interventions , what we know works , if you 're doing something different with your money , okay , you need to justify that and you need to explain how you 're going to demonstrate impact . but i think what we 're seeing is increasing good practice in this area as the pdg develops and as our understanding of our school-to-school working in our self-improving school system also develops . i think we 're seeing better usage of the money year on year . lynne neagle am : thank you . llyr on this . llyr gruffydd am : you mentioned some schools will be moving from the tried-and-tested interventions , really , and i 'm just wondering to what extent that evolution of use of pdg is being driven by cuts to core funding . kirsty williams am : no , i do n't think it 's being driven by cuts to core funding . i think there has been— . one of the biggest impacts of pdg has not been—well , i suppose it is the money in itself , because the money has concentrated the minds , has n't it ? so , one of the most important things that pdg has done is highlight the importance of this agenda within schools , and really raise this up in the thinking of leadership and senior management teams in our schools , and has driven a focus on scrutiny and accountability in the systems that are working with our schools . i think the changing use of pdg reflects the journeys that schools have been on , some of them from a very low base where this was not a priority for them , to better understanding , and as research and as intelligence grows over time in this area , both in wales and outside of wales , schools are increasingly learning to use that evidence to tailor approaches in their schools . llyr gruffydd am : so you would n't accept at all that some of this money 's being used to paper over some funding cracks from elsewhere . because the unions and some others have told us that , whether we like it or not , there is some of that going on . kirsty williams am : as i said , llyr , we 're very clear about the usage that this money can be spent on in terms of individuals or universal application within schools , and that forms an important part of the checks and balances that we have in our system . can we continue to improve , and ensure that more and more of our schools are employing best practice ? yes , we can , and as i 've said , we 've taken steps to put in place the infrastructure to support that . lynne neagle am : thank you . mark 's questions are next . mark reckless am : cabinet secretary , how would you assess the impact of pdg on attendance and hopefully subsequent engagement with education from children who have free school meals ? kirsty williams am : i think what 's important to note is that , as estyn have themselves said , over the period of the last inspection report , we have seen improvements in attendance , but i do think we need to , again , look at how pdg can support this particular agenda . and as always in the welsh education system , there are some excellent examples of how schools use the money to address this . ysgol y preseli in pembrokeshire is a very good example of how they 've deployed their money . forgive me ; i ca n't off the top of my head remember the name of the primary school i visited , again in north wales , where the school has proactively used this money , and they actually send teaching assistants out of school in the morning before the start of the school day , and they actually have a walking bus . they call at homes for children , and they walk the children to the breakfast club . so , they 're proactively going out into the community and making sure that those children are in the classrooms , because the teacher said , 'we recognised we had a problem with attendance . we tried a variety of means of improving that , but in the end we have taken this quite bold step—we actually send the staff out and they create that walking bus , and they walk the children into school ' . they say that they know that , for some of those children , because of the difficult circumstances they and their families are living in , they probably would n't be in school if it was n't for that proactive approach . so , we 're looking again at what more we can do to support this particular agenda in terms of improving attendance , because although , again , there are examples of good practice , there is still a gap between the attendance of free-school-meal pupils and non-free-school-meal pupils . and , of course , we can have the best curriculum in the world with really high-quality teaching , but unless the children are in the classes then we 're not going to make the difference for them . whilst that differential exists , then it 's going to be hard to close the attainment gap for those children . mark reckless am : i was actually quite shocked just reading in advance of this meeting that the proportion attending 95 per cent or more , who have pretty full attendance , was only 35 per cent for free-school-meal children at level 4 , compared to 60 per cent for non-free-school-meal pupils . it still is an extraordinary difference . my colleague here showed me , i think , last week , a graph showing the link between attendance and attainment , in particular . when people were absent , a lot of the— . as i 'm sure you 're aware , there 's a huge connection . what more can pdg do to deal with it ? in the example you give i can see how a school with an awful lot of free-school-meal children could do that , but a lot of the free-school-meal children are actually in schools that do n't have that high a proportion of free school meals , where it would be much more challenging to bring in that type of initiative . kirsty williams am : yes , indeed , and i think it gets more challenging the older the children get . i think it 's more difficult to find interventions that are successful higher up , so key stage 4 . so , you can do a walking bus with little ones , ca n't you , but i do n't suppose your average 15 or 16-year-old is going to take very kindly to that . so , you do need a different approach to that . but again , we see in ysgol y preseli the employment of staff to directly work with families of older children to reinforce the messages around , as you quite rightly say , the linkage between attendance and attainment , and really work with individual families to understand the barriers to attendance : what 's going on in the family that is preventing that child from going to school , and what more can the school do to address those situations . but you 're absolutely right ; there is more that we need to do to address this particular agenda of attainment . i do n't know if there 's anything extra you wanted to add , steve . steve davies : there is also another very good example—and i take what you say about where there are small numbers—but in our secondary schools where there are significant numbers , they 're investing pdg in resources like a school nurse and a school counsellor , not just to work with the children but link to other agencies on whom the children and the families are dependent to support them in terms of working with schools . so , it 's something , particularly in our most challenging areas , where it can not just be delivered within the school . so , good use of that resource is being made to employ people to support them in those wider areas . mark reckless am : thank you . to what extent is pdg also used to seek to reduce the higher rates of exclusion for children entitled to free school meals ? kirsty williams am : so , if we looked at permanent exclusions , there is n't a differential , but if we look at temporary exclusions , there we see there is a disproportionate number of children on free school meals that are subject to those exclusions . again , i think what schools employing best practice understand is that you need a multi-agency approach to supporting that particular child . some of those exclusions can be as a result of the need to address other issues going on in a child 's life . so , this is where we come back to the committee 's work , for instance , on mental health and support for children , support for behaviour in school . so , again , it 's a multi-agency approach that i think we need , and , in our good schools , our really , really good schools , there 's a recognition of that need to have a whole team around a child to support that child in education . with eotas , we made some changes last year regarding pdg for eotas . so , for those children who do find themselves in education other than at school , we are providing additional support that previously was not available . mark reckless am : thank you . lynne neagle am : okay . we 're going to move on now to talk about the impact of pdg on attainment . hefin david has got some questions . hefin david am : it appears that the attainment gap at 2017 has actually widened , in spite of pdg levels . is that correct ? kirsty williams am : yes . so , if you look at it—with the usual caveats about whether you can make direct comparisons on level 2 plus between the exams the year before and the exams that we had last summer—on the face of it , the gap has increased . i think what 's important to recognise , hefin , is a direction of travel . i 'm sure we all want to , because i want to , have a discussion about why children on free school meals were less resilient in the exam system last year . but , if we look at the period that we have been employing pdg , over that period , we have seen a narrowing of the gap . i think what 's quite stark , if we think about it— . so , if we look at where we started from : in 2009 , one in five children on free school meals got level 2 plus—one in five—by 2016 , we had got that down to one in three . obviously , there 's still a way to go , but , sir alasdair , who knows about these things , says that that is a significant improvement . last year , we got some challenges . we need to understand why that happened , but i do think it's— hefin david am : why , do you think ? kirsty williams am : why , do i think ? what i do think is there is no one answer . there is no one answer to this . i think we could look at and we can have discussions around the move from btec to science gcses . i think we have supplied figures to the committee about the significant change in the number of children on free school meals who were n't doing a single science gcse and are now doing science gcses . we can look at the unintended consequences of literature . again , we 've supplied figures . where children have done language and literature , whether that be through the medium of english or through the medium of welsh , there is more resilience . so , it 's that exposure to literacy in all its forms that i think could potentially make a difference . so , i think there 's no one answer to why free-school-meal children were not so resilient last year . we continue to have discussions with qualifications wales to get a better understanding of this . at my next ministerial policy board , in may , we 'll be doing a deep dive into this particular subject . hefin david am : so , to what extent would exam boards be responsible for lack of grade stability ? kirsty williams am : it could be one of the contributory factors . what i think is important is that there is no one , single reason why there seems to be less resilience in this cohort of children . hefin david am : will you be speaking to the exam boards about this and raising concerns ? kirsty williams am : i have written to qualifications wales , we 've had discussions about it , but i 've asked them to formally submit evidence ahead of my policy board for may , where , as i said , we will be doing a formal , deep-dive discussion across the department about these issues . but , again , hefin , what we 've got to be clear on is—while we look at overall factors , you know , our overall national statistic—we did see some schools last year whose fsm performance was better than it had been the year before . so , what was it in those schools that enabled those children to do really well , whereas , in other schools , the performance was different ? even in individual cities , you can see a huge variety of performance . so , take cardiff and swansea , our two biggest cities . you 've got schools in those cities with comparative levels of free school meals . so , you could have really high-performing schools with a very small number of the cohort on free school meals . the difference between those performances in a single city—so , that 's the same local education authority and the same regional consortium—you can see a massive change . there 's one school i can talk to : their free-school-meal performance is 88 per cent . a similar school in the same city with the same proportion of children on free school meals , their performance is down in the 20 per cents . so , i think what 's important is that we ca n't draw broad-brush conclusions . for me , the challenge is to go into individual schools and understand what was happening in that particular school that ensured that their children did really well . we 've got one school in swansea , their fsm performance at gcse level 2 outperforms non-fsm pupils . hefin david am : but we still need to rely on the trends from a distance . if we take your argument that 2017 was an unusual year and the trends up to 2016 were positive , in a few years ' time , when we will be looking back in two years ' time , how are we going to measure this progress , say , in 2019 ? what are we likely to see and what methods are you going to use to measure progress that way ? kirsty williams am : well , you 'll be aware that we are moving away from level 2 plus as a performance measure anyway because of the— hefin david am : so , what performance measures will you use ? kirsty williams am : so , for the lack of sophistication around the level 2 plus , and for the unintended behaviours that that particular performance measure has driven within our schools . i 'll be making a statement shortly to the assembly around a new performance measure for schools . we were , at our most recent secondary heads conference , working with schools to develop that . what 's important to me is that we have a more sophisticated model that looks at school performance for all children . what level 2 plus does is narrow , very much , the focus of schools on an individual part of the cohort , usually the c/d borderline , which is why then we have problems with the number of students getting a b grade or above . we have marked success in our schools by saying to schools that a c is good enough . well , if a child gets a c but came to you in year 7 and they were destined to get an e , yes , indeed , a c is a success , because you 've moved that child on ; but , if that child came to you destined to get an a* and gets a c , then we have n't done a good job by that particular child . so , we need a performance measure that is much more sophisticated , looks at each individual child , tracks that progress , and measures the value added by that school in performance . hefin david am : last question : therefore , should we have confidence in the data up to 2016 ? is there a lack of confidence in that data ? kirsty williams am : no , it 's not a lack of confidence in the data . the data is the data . what i 'm saying is , using that as a performance measure and an accountability measure within our school system may have been right for the time . i think it is now right to have a different way of measuring success in schools . i think that particular set of performance measures has driven certain behaviours—not because ministers wanted that to happen , but as an unintended consequence . i think we can work together with our school system , learning the lessons of international best practice , to develop much more sophisticated accountability and performance measures for individual schools , and , i should say , for the government . so , you will be aware of my intention to issue the first national report card on government performance later on this year . so , this is not about trying to avoid scrutiny . it 's about trying to develop a more sophisticated way , which is in line with our national mission , where every child 's education is valued , and where the impact of the school can be tracked more effectively . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . can i just ask , cabinet secretary , are you still holding on to your target of 37 per cent of free-school-meal pupils achieving the level 2 threshold ? kirsty williams am : well , we 're moving away from the level 2 threshold . so , that 's the first thing to say . so , we will want to develop a new suite , in line with our new accountability measures , as we go forward . so , we will be absolutely continuing to track and evaluate the performance of free-school-meal pupils . when we announce our new accountability measures , i will be in a position to address how we 'll measure the government's performance , and national performance , going forward . but , given the fact that we 're moving away from level 2 plus , then we will need a different set of performance indicators . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . the next questions are on looked-after children and adopted children , and i 've got questions from michelle then mark . michelle brown am : thank you . good morning— mark reckless am : i was to come in first , i think . i was about to ask about icf consulting . lynne neagle am : go on then . mark reckless am : i think my questions are first , but , michelle , please do correct me if you were planning to come in before . the pdg for looked-after children does n't quite seem to have the degree of visibility as the pdg for the free-school-meals . i think we had the mori/wiserd survey—only 15 per cent of primary schools and 23 per cent of secondary schools were aware that pdg was targeted at looked-after children . i just wonder—can you clarify on the record here what is the role of schools with pdg for looked-after children as compared to the regional consortia in this field ? kirsty williams am : okay . i think it is absolutely fair to say that most awareness around pdg is around free school meals . there is less awareness around the availability of pdg to support looked-after children . i think that 's probably in the nature of the cohort , so , there are more children subject to free school meals than are subject to being looked after . so , i think that 's part of the explanation . a decision was taken in 2015 to regionalise pdg for looked-after children . my understanding was that the thinking behind that at the time was around a greater strategic deployment of that resource and to try and drive a greater impact than how it was being used previously . so , looked-after pdg is held at a regional level . we have looked-after children pdg co-ordinators—they 're in their second year this year—to look at a regional deployment of that resource . and that resource can be done in a variety of ways , through individual allocation to a school to support an individual child , through to capacity building for the whole system . so , for instance , if i give you an example , in carmarthenshire , there 's been a big emphasis on attachment disorder and training teachers with regard to the impact of attachment disorder . carmarthenshire happens to be one of those local authorities that does quite well in terms of attainment for looked-after children . but , clearly , i have—not concerns . 'concerns ' is n't the right word . but i have asked officials to give greater scrutiny to how that resource has been used in the last year . steve , on my behalf , wrote out to the system , setting out our expectations , but also advising them of the fact we will be asking very detailed questions of accountability for that money . so , what has that money been used on and how can you account for the effect ? but , steve , maybe you can give some greater detail . steve davies : i think the challenge that— . one of the rationales for shifting—not that all the money stays in the region , but having a regional strategic support—was that , historically , the money was going directly with that child to the school . given the quite often rapid turnover of children in schools—the very nature of looked-after children is they do sometimes move through foster parents—historically , what happened , the money lands in the school , because , at that time in the year , when it 's measured , the school gets the money and can spend it on some additional support for staff , but quite often that child moves on to another school and the money does n't transfer . some schools will go through quite a number of years without having a looked-after child and will not think strategically , 'how do i need to support them ? ' so , that was the rationale of the shift . in terms of the implementation of the regional allocation , as of this financial year finishing , we are going into local authorities and regions to evaluate where they 've located the resource , what the impact of that resource has been , so that is reinforced and shared more widely . kirsty williams am : and then , to reassure , it 's not just internally that we 're looking at this . we have a contract with an external agency to do an evaluation— mark reckless am : that 's icf consulting . kirsty williams am : yes . yes , so that was done in the autumn of last year , because , as i said , we had concerns about whether this was really having the effect that was intended . so , my expectation is that we will be in a position to receive that report later on this spring , and of course it would be my intention that that report would be made public for people to have a look at what— mark reckless am : that was commissioned last autumn— kirsty williams am : yes , in november 2017 . mark reckless am : november 2017 . kirsty williams am : so , i 'm hoping to have that published before the summer recess . i 'm very reluctant to say months ; i 've learnt not to say months , because they move . lynne neagle am : i 'm going to go to michelle now , mark , because— mark reckless am : sure . i will come back in if i have anything further to ask here after michelle . lynne neagle am : —both of you asked for these questions , and that 's what the pre-meeting is for . mark reckless am : michelle , i defer to you . lynne neagle am : michelle . michelle brown am : okay , thank you . would you be open , cabinet secretary , to the idea of adjusting the eligibility of the pdg so that pupils who have been looked after or adopted at any point within a previous given period of time would attract the pdg , rather than only if they 're looked-after on a one-off date ? kirsty williams am : as i said earlier , in questions from , i think it was , llyr , who was talking about concepts of concepts of ever 6 , we are constantly looking at how we can get that balance between focus and flexibility for this resource . llyr opened with the question of , 'how can you absolutely ensure that these children are getting the money ? ' , but then there 's also a tension about how can you create some flexibility around the school 's usage of the grant . so , we will look at that . i think there is the issue of where a school would know of a child that was looked after . issues around adoption are slightly more sensitive , because we could n't force a family to tell a school that their child was an adopted child . so , a family may be very open and very keen to explain that to a school , but we ca n't necessarily track as closely children who have been adopted , especially if that adoption happens before the child goes to school . we ca n't be in a position of forcing families to disclose this information if they do n't want to , but we certainly can , as i say , look to strengthen our monitoring arrangements around pdg support for looked-after children and the impact that that 's having . i just think we need to be a bit mindful of people 's privacy in some instances . if they do n't want to divulge that , it would n't be my job to tell a family , 'you have to let us know if your child is adopted . ' lynne neagle am : michelle . michelle brown am : fair enough ; thank you for that answer . the eas consortium 's approach to using the looked-after and adopted pdg is to use it as part of a broader approach targeted at vulnerable learners in general . what are your views on that approach ? kirsty williams am : i 'm a great believer in if we can get it right for our most vulnerable learners , we 'll be getting it right for all of our learners . i gave the example earlier , for instance , of attachment disorder , and , chair , you will know that i have had conversations . one of the emerging themes for me , as i go around visiting schools , is the impact and the growing awareness and the growing numbers of children who have attachment disorder , and how schools are best able to respond to that in their children . so , for instance , as i said about carmarthenshire , there 's been a huge effort to address that in the school sector in carmarthenshire . now , that has a disproportionate benefit for those children , because you 're more likely to see attachment disorder in children who are care experienced , because of the nature of the lives that those children have lived , but that does n't necessarily mean that attachment disorder is exclusively found in those children that are looked after . it can be found in other families as well . so , that vulnerable learner , regardless of their background , will benefit from having teachers who are better trained , understanding and have intervention strategies in place to be able to address that need . steve davies : i think it 's also important to add that this is not one region 's approach ; this is across four regions , so the others— . for example , erw have run a significant programme looking at the impact of adverse childhood experiences on pupils , which has enabled teachers to detect some of the impact of some of those and then considers some of the work they need to do within the school but also with other agencies . so , it is something that's applied consistently across the four regions . kirsty williams am : i was in pil primary school recently where they use their pdg , both fsm pdg , and no doubt an element of pdg for looked-after , for nurture groups . so , for those children who really , really find it very difficult to be in the main classroom , they can have that nurture group experience to address issues around emotional behaviour , feelings , and it gets them in a position where they are able then to join the main classroom because issues around behaviour have been addressed and they 're in a better position to learn . so , again , this is an example of how vulnerable learners in the wider sense can benefit . lynne neagle am : okay . mark , did you have anything you wanted to ask ? mark reckless am : yes . can i follow up on tracking adopted children ? i entirely understand that you ca n't force parents to disclose that their child is adopted . however , my understanding was that , in england , there was a dataset with social services that was shared with schools in a way that i 'm not clear is happening in wales and how , if at all , that links to the pupil level annual school census data . perhaps sort of linked to that , is n't there an argument for making the parents of adopted children in the schools , potentially , with adopted children more aware that adopted children who were previously looked after have this potential grant , and would they not be more willing to disclose this , at least confidentially to the school and government , if they knew there was this upside of doing so ? kirsty williams am : we 're actively looking at whether we should try and find a way of collecting this data , with the caveats that i just gave earlier . we ca n't force parents to divulge information that is a matter for them , nor would i want to . but there is an active discussion going on at the moment about whether we could create a dataset where people divulge this information and we can then track the children through . you 're absolutely right . one of the ways in which we can often encourage take-up , for instance , of free school meals , especially in those communities where there is a sense of reluctance to apply for support—even though people are entitled to it , there 's a reluctance to do it ; sometimes we see this in rural areas— . actually , appealing to the parents by saying , 'actually , this will mean more money for your child 's school budget' is a much more compelling reason why people will apply for it then saying , 'actually , it 's going to help you ' , because they do n't want to be seen being dependent , they do n't want to be seen being helped . but , if you say to them , 'actually , do you know that this means more money for your child 's school ? ' , they go , 'oh , all right then , i 'll fill in the forms now . ' so , you 're right , i think there is something that we could do to make parents understand , in the round , that this has an impact . but we are actively looking at and discussing whether we could create a dataset around adopted children and how we can do that in line with data protection and data sharing . one of the things i am concerned about in the performance of looked-after children generally is how we can , across government , work more closely together . we ca n't see the educational attainment of looked-after children just being a job of education . it 's got to be a job of social services and the health service as well . there 's got to be a joined-up approach to doing that . now , officials were at the ministerial advisory group that 's chaired by david melding on prospects for looked-after children . they were there at the group last week . david tells me that the paper was very positively received by the group . i will be sitting down with david melding to talk through what more we can do on the education side . i think there 's really an appetite between me and the minister for children to get a closer working relationship on this . we ca n't expect schools to do it on their own and alone . and there are things that we can do out there in local authorities to help improve outcomes . it 's not just about the pdg ; it is about , when social services are thinking about a placement , where does the discussion about where children are going to go to school—when does that take place ? do we talk about the placement , move a child and then think , 'oh my goodness me , what are we going to do about the schooling ? ' if you can imagine , the school could have been working really , really hard with a pupil to get them in a good place , to get them being able to access the curriculum , and then social services decide that the placement is being changed . so , we potentially lose all of that . so , a greater involvement in education and better linked-up working in local authorities will help us with this . it ca n't be just the job of the pdg . if we think we can crack this with just pdg , then we 're being delusional . it has to be a cross-government approach at a national level , and at a local government level as well , to get this right . sometimes , data protection—how can we break down some of these barriers between , you know , the school does n't need to , schools should n't see , the entire social services report ? well , maybe the school does need to see some of that background information if they 're going to have an impact for that child . so , there 's more work to do , but it can not be just the job of education on its own if we 're going to make a difference , nor can it just be the job of the pdg to make a difference for those children . lynne neagle am : thank you . julie 's got some more questions on the impact on adopted and looked-after children . julie morgan am : yes , before i go on to those , i just wanted to support , really , what mark was saying about adopted children and how important it is , i think , that the adoptive parents feel able to speak to the school and to give information . because certainly any evidence we 've had from adoptive parents , and generally knowing about what adoptive parents do feel , is that they often feel that there 's a degree of a lack of sensitivity in the school about the issues of adoption . i would certainly support some move towards ensuring that the atmosphere was open in a way that would encourage them to realise that it would be a help for the children if there was an awareness in the school . so , i just wanted to really reinforce that . kirsty williams am : yes , and that would chime with what i hear from many adoptive parents . i 'm just trying to be sensitive by saying we ca n't force people to divulge this information if they do n't want to . julie morgan am : no , but they need to be given the opportunity . kirsty williams am : yes , you 're right . we need to make sure that those parents feel that they can discuss this with school leaders and classroom teachers and explore how best those individual children can be supported , and how best we can support parents . because , again—and i 've said this a lot—after the quality of teaching , the second biggest impact on a child 's educational outcome will be parental engagement . so , being able to create an environment where adoptive parents feel very confident and able to talk about their children 's education is absolutely crucial if we 're going to get that parental engagement that we need for all of our children . julie morgan am : yes . thank you . going on to looked-after children , you say that the latest data on looked-after children 's attainment is extremely disappointing . can you expand on that and what effect the pdg has had in this result , or not had ? kirsty williams am : well , there 's no getting away from it : the way in which we currently measure outcomes for looked-after children , the results are not good enough . it 's a source of huge concern to me that we need to do better for those children . that 's why officials are engaging with the group that david melding is chairing , to make sure that education is integral to that group and it 's not lost sight of . there 's a discussion to be had about the cohort , whether it 's right and correct to compare looked-after children to the main cohort , or whether these statistics are useful in any way . sometimes as well—this is not to make an excuse because , as i 've said in my paper , it 's extremely disappointing , but sometimes it can be really difficult . because the cohort sometimes can be very , very small , it can swing the statistics to look perhaps more dramatic . julie morgan am : i think , generally , when you look at how looked-after children do— kirsty williams am : it 's not good . julie morgan am : —in a much wider evaluation , they 're not doing well , are they ? kirsty williams am : they 're not doing well . so , that 's why we 've got the review , the independent review , into the impact of the pdg in this area . this is why steve is doing the work that he is doing with the regional consortia because , clearly , at the moment , we are not doing what we need to do for that particular cohort of children . i would not make any bones about that at all . steve davies : i think we will not move away from the fact that these children need good gcses to gain employment , so we 'll continue to measure that . i think we need to look at more nuanced evaluations of the data at a lower level . so , for example , there were significant improvements in terms of pdg pupils who got three and four good gcses but did n't get past the threshold . that 's not to cover anything that is not working in terms of improvement , but we will look at the full range and still hold on to the fact that we have to look at a measure that relates to the likelihood of these children going on to further education and training . julie morgan am : and then just one more question about the exclusion rates amongst looked-after children . they are , i understand , over six times more likely to be given a fixed-term exclusion . so , is there any way of trying to address this ? is the pdg used for anything to do with exclusions ? kirsty williams am : we can look at exclusions . we also have to read across about how the whole system works , not just the pdg element of the system . so , we know , for example , that 66 per cent of looked-after learners have some additional learning need , so we ca n't just look at it in terms of this particular source of funding ; we have to look at it at a wider level of support . so , given that the majority of those children will have an aln , how can we make sure that our new aln legislation and our new aln regime meets the needs of these children ? so , i think what we 're looking at , again , is to say that it ca n't be just the job of the pdg . that 's there as an additional level of support , but actually , we 've got to get our aln right . unless we get our aln right , lots and lots of these children are not going to get the support that they need day in , day out via that system . we do know that sometimes , if we 're not addressing aln , then we 're not addressing behaviour issues that then potentially lead to an expulsion or potentially lead to non-attendance . so , we 've got to look at it in the round and recognise the connections between the sometimes quite complex needs that these children have within the school setting , that are not just as a result of the fact that they 're looked after ; they have other needs as well . steve davies : and investment in well-being— kirsty williams am : absolutely . steve is reminding me that that 's why well-being is part of the national mission—to address issues around supporting children with their well-being , which is a way of keeping them in school . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 're going to move on to schools challenge cymru now . llyr . llyr gruffydd am : thank you , chair . i was just wondering what your assessment is as to why some schools made progress and others did n't . kirsty williams am : i think we have to recognise that the 39 schools that were part of the programme were in very , very different places . so , i think one of the reasons why some schools did well was because their needs were not so complex , not so deep-seated and a certain level of intervention was enough to get them moving forward . some schools had very , very different needs . i think , talking to those involved in the programme , as always , we had some support advisers , challenge advisers working with those schools as part of the programme who were really , really excellent and really good , and were the right fit for the school and really drove the school onwards . we had other people employed in the programme who , perhaps , were less effective at driving change within those individual schools . so , what we have is a mixed bag of performance , again reflecting the very different challenges that those schools were facing , which led them to be chosen for the programme in the first place . llyr gruffydd am : yes , okay— steve davies : sorry . one of the other key additional factors was the extent to which there had been recent appointment of a new headteacher to that school just before the programme had started , because— kirsty williams am : leadership is all . llyr gruffydd am : and that was seen as a positive . steve davies : a positive , yes . i think one of the challenges is that sometimes the time it takes to make changes in leadership can be protracted and can be a barrier , sometimes , to the speed with which you can move . but , for a significant minority of the schools , there had been recent new appointments of headteachers , which was seen to be contributing , when you looked at the evaluation , to the speed with which they were able to engage . llyr gruffydd am : the reason i was asking was i wanted to understand what lessons the government is taking from that three-year investment , really , and how , maybe , you 're applying some of those lessons to your wider school improvement programme . i know professor mel ainscow identified six interconnected lessons , although i also note that the cabinet secretary did n't actually meet him for about six or seven months after coming into post . so , i 'm just wondering , can you give us confidence that , actually , you are serious about taking lessons from schools challenge cymru and applying them to the wider school improvement agenda ? kirsty williams am : well , absolutely , llyr . i do n't think anything should be read into when i met the individual concerned , because officials were meeting the individual concerned . individual challenge advisers were meeting with the regions , there was crossover work with the fsm agenda as well , and we are absolutely determined that best practice and those interventions that drove school improvement are embedded in the new support that we have via the regional consortia . it 's no coincidence that some of the best people that were employed by schools challenge cymru are now in the employment of our regional consortia . so , those people that were really good and really made a difference do n't work for the schools challenge cymru scheme any more , they work for our regional school improvement services . so , we 're absolutely determined . the things that we have learned , as always , are around leadership . it is absolutely key and crucial to have strong , capable school leadership as a driver for change within the system . we 're looking at systems and processes , so , actually , has a school got in place comprehensive systems of tracking and processes within the school ? we 're looking at the teacher quality—how can we ensure that we have got consistent strategies in place to drive up pedagogy and teacher quality in the classroom ? collaborative activity—again , absolutely key . a school can not see itself in isolation , and one of the key themes of the national mission is a self-improving system , so , collaborative working where schools are looking outside of each other , learning from best practice from other schools . so , there are lots of things that we 've drawn from the evaluation that you will see as key themes running through the national mission , and , as i said , it 's no coincidence that our really good people that were working in schools challenge cymru are now working for the regional consortia , being able to use that expertise not just for a very small proportion of our schools—but that expertise is available to all our schools . llyr gruffydd am : although estyn has told us , of course , that you ca n't expect the consortia to really carry on with that level of intervention and the same kind of intensity as was provided previously , so i 'm just wondering— kirsty williams am : in what way ? llyr gruffydd am : well , we were told by estyn in evidence that they did n't necessarily think that we could expect the consortia to provide the same type of tailored support , and certainly the level of intensity with the improvement boards and everything— kirsty williams am : well , the improvement boards are carrying on , so the improvement boards still exist , and i would—not that i want to argue with estyn— llyr gruffydd am : well , feel free ; this is your opportunity to do so if you— kirsty williams am : what i would say is that those improvement boards are staying on , and our schools categorisation system is used to identify the level of support . now , if you 're a red school , that gives you the entitlement to 25 days of support . that is more than you would have got under the schools challenge cymru programme , which would 've been 20 days . so , actually , moving to this system allows us to really focus in on those schools that need that intensive level of support . and what 's important for me , llyr , in this , okay , is that those schools are not necessarily just the schools that were in the programme . our system now of challenge , advice and support allows us to target resources across all of our schools and across all of our sectors , because you 'll be aware that schools challenge was only available to secondary schools , not available to primary schools . what our system now allows us to do , via the schools categorisation , is to identify schools , wherever they are in wales and whatever sector they 're in , to have that intensive level of support that they need to make improvements . llyr gruffydd am : so , you 're confident that that level of momentum is continuing through the consortia that was previously enjoyed by those particular schools , and you 're also confident that there is minimal risk that they 'll slip back to where they were , potentially , or at least part of the way back . kirsty williams am : well , actually , there are some really good examples of some of the schools challenge cymru schools making that sustained improvement now that the programme has come to an end . you only have to look at tredegar , where we have seen continual improvement and moving up through the categorisation system . that school is now a green school , so they 've been able to sustain their progress at the end of the programme . if we look at armando in eastern high school , again—gosh , my goodness me , we had lots of debates in a previous chamber about the future of eastern . there was one person that said that eastern had to be closed and that the only way forward for that particular school was for it to be shut down , but what we have seen is investment via schools challenge cymru , but ongoing , continual support from the regional consortium , and that school has come out of special measures . i pay absolute tribute to the staff of that school and that community that have done such a good job . so , i 'm absolutely convinced that where we 've got good leadership and good support , some of those schools are making continued , sustained progress even after the end of the programme . the challenge for me is for those schools that schools challenge cymru did n't work for , and we have n't seen that progress—how we can use our school improvement system now to continue to work with those schools to give them the level of support that they need to make a difference . so that 's what my focus is on now : a whole-system approach , rather than choosing 39 schools to get that level of support , when we recognise that there are schools everywhere , potentially , that need intervention , support and challenge , and in the primary sector as well . llyr gruffydd am : okay . so , you would n't agree with a number of—well , the near-unanimous evidence that we 've had from academics , some of whom are government advisers from consortia et cetera , that this kind of programme such as schools challenge cymru would probably need about five years to really have the impact that it was intended to have . kirsty williams am : what i would say is that , from my understanding , from the outset , it was a time-limited programme . the schools were aware of that . there were no surprises that it was supposed to be a time-limited programme . evidence from across the uk showed that school challenge programmes have differed in time . so , for instance , manchester 's challenge was a three-year programme . so , there 's no consensus about how many years you need to run a programme for . the previous minister was quite clear about the time-limited nature of the programme . that 's not to say it was the wrong decision , because what 's important , and an ongoing legacy of the programme , was the investment in regional school improvement capacity , because at the time our school improvement services and the regions were young , in their infancy . the ability of individual local authorities to make a difference , with so many local authorities in an estyn categorisation , was limited , so one of the ongoing legacies of the programme is that significant investment of over £10 million in the capacity of the regions to be able to continue this support and the school improvement work . llyr gruffydd am : so , how disappointed were you that the money for schools challenge cymru went back into reserves and did n't stay in your envelope , as you described it earlier ? i presume you made a pitch for it . did you make a case for that money to stay within your department ? kirsty williams am : llyr , we are constantly having discussions with the minister for finance around support for the education budget . the minister for finance was quite clear that it was a time-limited programme . we were able to secure investment from the finance minister to be able to secure the programme and run it and phase it out to make sure there was transition support , so as we moved from the schools challenge programme into the regional consortia , there were resources to do that . llyr gruffydd am : did you feel there was a case to be made to add to the consortia 's resources and be able to continue that level of support that schools had previously had ? kirsty williams am : well , we did make resources available to the regional consortia to do that . as i say , from the outset , the previous minister was very clear it was a time-limited programme . certainly the schools that i talk to— . and i want to be absolutely clear : i have visited many , many schools challenge cymru schools . i have used that opportunity to talk to them about—heolddu being one of them , hefin , which we went to visit , and willows , for instance . i 'm going to one this afternoon—i 'm going to st illtyd 's this afternoon , and i always take— . i 've been to caergybi in anglesey . i always take the opportunity to speak to those teachers about their experience of the programme and to understand and assure myself that they are getting ongoing support that they see as an appropriate level for them . i think i 've done 19 of the schools . lynne neagle am : hefin on this . hefin david am : with regard to it being a time-limited programme , the previous minister was clear that it was a time-limited programme , but it was n't quite as time-limited as you 've decided to be . is that fair to say ? kirsty williams am : no , it was supposed to be a three-year programme at the most . so , there 's no differential between when i decided it was time-limited and the expectations— hefin david am : so the time limit was the same that the previous minister put on it . kirsty williams am : yes . no change . llyr gruffydd am : but mel ainscow did tell us that there was a fade out in that third year—not that people were giving up , do n't get me wrong , but clearly there was n't that commitment coming from government because the decision had been made , and people felt that it was just fizzling out a little bit , and that impacted on the momentum . kirsty williams am : i would n't characterise it as that . i think there certainly was a transition phase when we knew that the programme was moving and schools were moving into a different level of support , but i certainly would n't describe it as a fading out—not at all . as i said , we were aware that the programme was transitioning and we were determined to get that right for those individual schools , and to learn the lessons and , crucially , to be able to apply those lessons right across the board . steve davies : i can see where the perception would come if a programme director like mel was managing the programme right to the end of the three years exactly the same , and it falls off—not a cliff , but it falls off , then the readiness for schools and the readiness in the system to hand over—so part of the shift of focus was that working as a government with the programme in those schools to working with the programme , those schools and the region . so , i think , inevitably , one party might see it as a decrease in terms of emphasis on their work , but it was necessary for the transition . llyr gruffydd am : but does that cast a bit of a shadow over the transition , then—that one key player within that process felt as such , or are you confident that that was managed well and effectively ? kirsty williams am : i think it was managed well , and we were very clear to recognise success where success has been achieved , but not to gloss over where the programme had not made an impact , because that would n't be good for anybody . there was a formal event to close the programme , which gave everybody an opportunity to get together , to be formally thanked , and for , as i said , congratulations to be given to those people who had really made a difference and , crucially , key staff transferred over into the regional consortia . so , for those individuals , they were able to continue their work , but just be able to apply that work on a regional basis rather than just in an individual school . so , i do n't see that there was any fading out , but there was a transition into a new system , and many of those key personnel transitioned into the system with us . lynne neagle am : have you got any figures for the numbers of staff who went from the programme into the consortia ? kirsty williams am : not off the top of my head , but i can let you know . lynne neagle am : okay . i 've got darren first , then mark . kirsty williams am : and can i just say , i met with some of them ? i met with a selection of those people who had been involved in the programme to get their feedback on what they felt had gone right , and what they did n't feel had gone right in the programme . so , i took the time not just to meet the figurehead of the programme , but actually to meet the people who were doing the work in the individual schools . sorry . darren millar am : yes , i just wanted to ask you , you mentioned the figurehead there , i assume by 'the figurehead ' you mean professor ainscow . and you 've mentioned as well that you said you wanted to learn lessons from schools challenge cymru , but he told us that nobody had been in touch with him since march of last year in order to have any sort of follow-up engagement , or to have a dialogue about his perspective on what worked , what did n't work , why there were failures in some areas and why there were successes in others . why have n't you sought that level of engagement with the person who was responsible for running the programme ? kirsty williams am : i 've had that conversation with mr ainscow . we had the evaluation of the programme . we 've spoken to the people who were actually involved in running the programme on a daily basis in individual schools . we 've spoken to the regional consortia . we 've spoken to local education authorities . we 've spoken to a wide variety of people to get their insight into the lessons learned , what was valuable and what was not valuable . so , a wide variety of people have been involved in those conversations . darren millar am : but you 've hardly engaged with mr ainscow—with professor ainscow himself . steve davies : i would actually say that i have had meetings— darren millar am : since march of last year . steve davies : yes , since march of last year . i have n't got the exact dates for you . i 've had discussions with mel ainscow , and my line manager at the time , owen evans , also had meetings and discussions . darren millar am : so , when he told us , 'since last march , i literally have had no contact at all with anybody from welsh government ' , he was telling porky pies , was he ? steve davies : that 's not my recollection . i 'll go back and check for you . lynne neagle am : if you could check and let us know , that would be good . mark . kirsty williams am : yes , well , i just talked about the celebration event to formally mark the end of the programme . my understanding was that it was july of last year , so people were engaged in that . and this idea that somebody has been ignored or frozen out is not how i see or how i regard that situation . mark reckless am : i have to say , with professor ainscow my impression was he took great , great pride in the work that he 'd done with schools challenge cymru , and i think he really enjoyed the engagement , the work and the positive relations with the welsh government . but i think there was just a degree of disappointment , perhaps , that at least he did n't feel that he 'd been interrogated as much as he might have been about the lessons learned from the programme , and how perhaps to entrench those as well as possible with the regional consortia . i just wonder , cabinet secretary , if you could invite the professor in , perhaps to have a further debrief with you and take account of some of his thoughts and suggestions for what might help in this area . kirsty williams am : well , mark , as i said , i just do n't think it should be right to characterise this as a failure to engage with a single individual . mark reckless am : i 'm not characterising it that way , cabinet secretary . kirsty williams am : as i said , i met with him , steve has met with him , owen evans has met with him , my special policy adviser has met with him and had discussions . so , there has been an ongoing dialogue . but , mark , i hope that i have demonstrated since i took on this job that i am willing to work with a wide variety of people and to tap into their expertise if it can help me to deliver on the national mission . and if the advice to me is that we have n't sufficiently learnt the lessons , then i 'll gladly have another conversation . what i 'm saying to you—and i 'm absolutely confident—is that we have learnt the lessons , we are taking that work and the good practice forward , and we have done that with conversations with a wide variety of people who had a view on this , from individual schools that were involved in the programme , individual people who were working in those schools , local education authorities , some of which have been very scathing about the programme , i should say , regional consortia— . so , the lessons , i am confident , have been learnt . mark reckless am : i 'm glad to hear that , cabinet secretary , but i still say that , listening to professor ainscow 's evidence , there was a perception , at least from him individually , that the programme should not be seen to be a failure , but a desire that the lessons should be learnt and a feeling or exception , at least on his part , that there was more that he still had to contribute to the process . and just to take one particular example , i think he referred to the schools challenge cymru advisers being very successful in bringing in people who might not otherwise have contributed to this , and the regional consortia have had greater challenges in recruiting people , perhaps in some areas , of the same high standard of some particular individuals , but also from a wide range of different areas that the schools challenge cymru do , and that there could be more to learn in that area as to how to support real excellence and a greater diversity of recruitment for those people . is that something you could perhaps draw on his thoughts further about ? because i think he does feel that he has more to say to welsh government to help in this area . kirsty williams am : firstly , can i say that i have never described the programme as a failure ? i would understand , as someone who has put so much personal investment into the brand of schools challenges , that he would not want anybody to characterise that particular approach to school improvement as a failure . and i want to be absolutely clear that i have never described the programme as a failure , and i want to reassure mr ainscow of that . as i 've said , gosh , my goodness me , if you saw my e-mail inbox and you saw the letters that come in , people are never shy in coming forward to give me advice on what i need to do , what i need to do next , what i 'm doing right , what i 'm doing wrong , and , you know , our doors are always open to listen to people who have interesting things to say about how we can deliver our educational mission . so , people are n't slow in coming forward , i can assure you , with advice . lynne neagle am : julie . julie morgan am : just very quickly . i 'm sure the minister is aware that cardiff put extra funds of its own in to continue schools challenge cymru advisers . so , obviously , they appreciated the value of the scheme , but it does query whether it should have gone on longer . kirsty williams am : julie , i think , to be fair , there are some people who think the scheme was absolutely fantastic . i 've had feedback from people who did n't think the scheme was helpful at all—in fact , they felt it was a hindrance . i 'm very much of the view that the scheme worked really well for some schools in some areas and had less impact in some areas . there is a mixed picture . what 's important to me is that we understand what it was that led those schools to make those big changes , how we can—like mark talked about , the expertise—how we can keep that expertise in the system , and how we can apply the lessons to all schools . lynne neagle am : the next questions , and the final questions , are from john . so , we 're going to need succinct questions and succinct answers . john griffiths am : some questions on regional consortia , cabinet secretary , and , first of all , the role that you believe they should play and how schools use pdg . kirsty williams am : well , it 's an absolute— . it 's one of the things that i have been very clear to the regional consortia that i expect their challenge and support advisers to be asking schools about . so , one of the conversations that they need to have when they are in schools is exploring , with that school , how they are using their pdg , and how they 're demonstrating an impact for those resources . so , it 's a fundamental role for the challenge and support advisers in the regional consortia in their school improvement work . it 's crucial . john griffiths am : that sort of brings to mind some of the research that 's been done on the role of the challenge advisers , cabinet secretary , which suggested that they 're not actually challenging schools in that way , and that there 's very little evidence of schools changing their decisions on the use of pdg as a result of any challenge from those challenge advisers . so , how would you respond to those findings ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , in my scrutiny of the role and success of our regional consortia , i specifically asked them about free-school-meal performance and the use of pdg within their particular region . i think there is increasing evidence to suggest that good use is being made of that resource , and i think that is being fed back into us . estyn tell us that it 's one of the areas of school expenditure that is closely linked to research and an evidence base . but , clearly , there is more to do , and that 's why we have appointed the new regional advisers for pdg going forward , because we think there can be improvements in how this agenda can be supported at a regional level . john griffiths am : okay . so , you would recognise the findings from that research . kirsty williams am : yes . there 's always more that we can do , and we are strengthening that role by the appointment of the new regional pdg advisers , so that individual school challenge advisers know what they should be looking for , know what they should be doing , and there is a regional approach to good practice . john griffiths am : okay . could you tell the committee , cabinet secretary , how effective you believe the relationship was between the schools challenge cymru programme and the regional consortia 's school improvement functions , and to what extent it varied by region ? kirsty williams am : i think it 's fair to say that , on occasion , i have received feedback that there was a conflict between what was going on at an individual school under the school improvement programme and whether , then , they welcomed support from the regional consortia as part of that . so , in some cases , if we 're being absolutely honest , there could sometimes be tensions between the two , but in most cases , the relationship was very , very positive and there was continuous feedback between the work going on in the schools under the programme and the regional consortia challenge advisers . but i 'm going to be blunt and honest with people—in some cases , it has been reported to me—it 's only anecdotal evidence ; i have n't got hard and fast evidence—that there sometimes was a conflict : 'we 're a school challenge school so we do n't need to participate or listen to any advice that 's coming from the regional consortia . ' or , a local education authority said to me , 'we felt that we could n't get involved in that school anymore because it was part of a different programme . ' those were isolated incidents , and , as i said , it 's only anecdotal feedback . in most cases , the relationship was a very positive one . steve davies : just very quickly , i think that , across the board , it was more complex in the beginning , getting— [ inaudible. ] . but when the programme itself recognised that they needed to work with the regions , and the regions needed to work with them—and i think mel ainscow in his evidence referred to this—it strengthened after some early challenges . i think mel ainscow was working in a number of regions—i ca n't remember which ones—so he 's established relationships— [ interruption . ] sorry ? kirsty williams am : central south . steve davies : central south . he has already been working in that , so i think it possibly had a stronger springboard in terms of the early working . kirsty williams am : because he already had relationships that he had already developed in that particular region . as always , with many of these things , it 's about individuals and relationships . john griffiths am : okay . finally from me , cabinet secretary : in 2015-16 , estyn reported on regional consortia not sufficiently focusing on particular groups of pupils and tracking their outcomes—for example , vulnerable pupils . i just wonder what you are able to tell us in terms of to what extent there has been necessary progress since 2015-16 . kirsty williams am : okay . well , i think it 's important to recognise that all four consortia underwent monitoring visits in the autumn of last year , of 2017 , which were n't reflected in the estyn annual report for 2015-16 . estyn , through these 2017 inspections , have said that three out of the four regional consortia are making strong progress in their particular work , and we are continuing , as welsh government , to work with the other regional consortia to address the findings of the estyn report . john griffiths am : and that would include these particular issues . kirsty williams am : yes , absolutely . the committee probably has n't had an opportunity to see , but , only this morning , estyn has released a report on more able and talented , and has positive things to say in the field of more able and talented , which was being asked about earlier by members—you know , evidence of improved working and support in that particular arena . but , again , we need to ensure a consistency across all the regions , and that the findings of estyn 's most recent reports into regional performance are followed through . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . as we 've got a couple of minutes left , if i can just jump back to the issue of practical uses of the pdg—because it 's the only thing we have n't really covered and it would be good to get on the record—can i ask to what extent you 'd like to see the pdg used to track the progress of eligible pupils ? and the committee 's heard that there are several different tracking systems and tools used by schools . to what extent is that an issue to do with what the welsh government is promoting ? or is it down to consortia or individual schools ? and do you think there needs to be a more centralised push on how the tracking is undertaken ? kirsty williams am : firstly , can i say it 's absolutely crucial that we track performance , absolutely crucial ? that 's the bedrock . we do n't dictate to individual schools the nature of the system that they should employ in their school . there are a number of different programmes that allow schools to do this , but we are absolutely clear , and best practice and evidence shows us , that individual pupil tracking is key and crucial . and , as i said in the beginning , where we were n't tracking pupils at all , initial investment in pdg was used to establish these systems within schools . again , one of the outcomes from the schools challenge review , and one of the lessons learnt , was , again , the importance of individual tracking of pupils throughout their school career . but we do n't dictate a single system . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . kirsty williams am : but the principle is a really important one . lynne neagle am : okay , and you do n't think there 's more scope to look at what the best system is that can be recommended to schools . kirsty williams am : that 's not something we 're actively looking at . i am actively looking at developing a welsh toolkit around good practice , evidence base and research . at the moment we use the sutton trust toolkit , which is fine and excellent , but we are having active discussions about whether we 're in a position , now , to look at developing a suite of a welsh toolkit to support this agenda , and that 's under active consideration . lynne neagle am : okay . well , we 've reached the end of our session . can i thank the cabinet secretary and the officials for attending and for answering such a wide range of questions ? as usual , you 'll be sent a transcript to check for accuracy following the meeting , but thank you again for coming . kirsty williams am : thank you very much . </s>
<s> summarize the extent that the experts consider that the money is being targeted appropriately . </s> kirsty williams am : thank you , llyr . i think it 's important to be absolutely clear that when it comes to individual interventions , those individual interventions should only be targeted at those children who are eligible for free school meals . but in some cases , schools may use their pdg funding to provide a universal intervention , but we would want to—in challenge advisers ' discussions in schools—we 'd want to have evidence that that universal intervention would have a disproportionate effect on the outcomes for children on free school meals . so , for instance , if i give you an example in your own region , llyr : at brynteg county primary school in wrexham , if you look at that primary school in wrexham , their results for free-school-meal children at the end of their primary school period in school are equivalent to their non-free-school-meal counterparts . so , there is no differentiation in those results . one of the things that they 've used their pdg for is to really focus on the concept of growth mindset in school . so , that 's a universal thing that they 've trained all the teachers in , but what we know is that that has a disproportionate effect on those children who are on free school meals . so , if you 're familiar with the concept of a growth mindset , it 's about really challenging learners to think that , ' i can do things . if sometimes i fail , i pick myself up , i 'm more resilient . ' now , that has been , as i said , trained to all the teachers in the school—it 's an ethos for the whole school—but we have seen that the impact on the free-school-meal children has been even greater , and now they 're at the same level . so , that 's the important distinction . individual intervention per child has to be targeted at those children who are eligible for free school meals , but sometimes a school will employ a whole-school approach to train their staff , for instance , and that , then , has to demonstrate it has a disproportionate effect on free school meals . so , growth mindset ; it may be attachment disorder training for staff , for instance , where we know it 's of benefit to everybody , but will have particular benefits for that cohort of students . with regard to more able and talented , you know , llyr , that this is an area of concern for me , generally , within the welsh education system ; that we 've not been particularly good at identifying , supporting and driving attainment for those children . i 'm absolutely clear that pdg needs to be used for those children who are eligible to drive potential , whatever the potential of that child is , including more able and talented . and again , i 'll give you an example that has been seen as good practice in pembrokeshire : a window on the world bus , again paid for by schools . i do n't know if you 're aware of it . llyr gruffydd am : we 've heard about that . </s>
<s> what do the group think of the question whether the eligibility for free school meals is the best measure ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : so , are you content that eligibility for free school meals is the best measure , really , of identifying which pupils to target ? </s>
<s> how do the group think of the extent and condition that schools actually make good use of that funding of pdg ? </s> lynne neagle am : thank you . if we can go on , then , to talk about some of the practical uses of the pdg , you write in your written paper that 'the majority of schools are making well thought out and appropriate decisions ' on how to use it . but estyn reported that only two thirds of primary and secondary schools make effective use of the pdg . given that we 've had it now for six years , would you not have expected there to be a higher level of schools actually making good use of that funding ? kirsty williams am : well , to flip it on its head , the vast majority of schools , as identified by estyn , are using this money to good effect . so , that 's the way i like to see it—that the vast majority of schools are doing well . what estyn has also indicated is the intrinsic link here to leadership within individual schools , and as you 'll be aware , leadership , improving capacity in leadership and developing leadership talent in the welsh education system is a key priority for me in our national mission . of course , that 's being developed in a different work stream . i think what 's fair to say is that the use of pdg is evolving over time . i think we are seeing , increasingly , more and more schools understanding how best to deploy that money for best effect for students . so , if we 're honest , when pdg first started , i think , in some schools it was spent on investing in tracking of children , because they 'd never thought about tracking these children , they did n't have systems in place to look at the performance of these children , and to have a system in place . so we 've moved now from spending money on the infrastructure around support for fsm children into actual inputs in terms of teaching and learning . we 're also seeing from estyn that , actually , in terms of money following the evidence of what we know works , estyn says that pdg is probably the best example of schools following tried and tested and evidence-based interventions to deploy the money . but clearly we want all of this money to be deployed as well as it can be , and again we come back to the decision i 've made to appoint regional pdg advisers so that we can get that better consistency of approach . we are , in the discussions that i have with the regional consortia about how they challenge individual schools on usage , looking for very clear evidence of schools using the sutton trust toolkit , and we could have a discussion about whether that 's the right thing , because that 's on my mind too . but we want to see schools demonstrating their evidence base , and if they 're not , if a school is n't doing that , okay , so demonstrate to us why you 've made those decisions and , crucially , what are you doing as the school to judge whether that decision is actually making a difference for your individual pupils . so , if you 're moving away from tried and tested interventions , what we know works , if you 're doing something different with your money , okay , you need to justify that and you need to explain how you 're going to demonstrate impact . but i think what we 're seeing is increasing good practice in this area as the pdg develops and as our understanding of our school-to-school working in our self-improving school system also develops . i think we 're seeing better usage of the money year on year . </s>
<s> how would the group assess the impact of pdg on attendance and subsequent engagement with education from children having free school meals ? </s> mark reckless am : cabinet secretary , how would you assess the impact of pdg on attendance and hopefully subsequent engagement with education from children who have free school meals ? kirsty williams am : i think what 's important to note is that , as estyn have themselves said , over the period of the last inspection report , we have seen improvements in attendance , but i do think we need to , again , look at how pdg can support this particular agenda . and as always in the welsh education system , there are some excellent examples of how schools use the money to address this . ysgol y preseli in pembrokeshire is a very good example of how they 've deployed their money . forgive me ; i ca n't off the top of my head remember the name of the primary school i visited , again in north wales , where the school has proactively used this money , and they actually send teaching assistants out of school in the morning before the start of the school day , and they actually have a walking bus . they call at homes for children , and they walk the children to the breakfast club . so , they 're proactively going out into the community and making sure that those children are in the classrooms , because the teacher said , 'we recognised we had a problem with attendance . we tried a variety of means of improving that , but in the end we have taken this quite bold step—we actually send the staff out and they create that walking bus , and they walk the children into school ' . they say that they know that , for some of those children , because of the difficult circumstances they and their families are living in , they probably would n't be in school if it was n't for that proactive approach . so , we 're looking again at what more we can do to support this particular agenda in terms of improving attendance , because although , again , there are examples of good practice , there is still a gap between the attendance of free-school-meal pupils and non-free-school-meal pupils . and , of course , we can have the best curriculum in the world with really high-quality teaching , but unless the children are in the classes then we 're not going to make the difference for them . whilst that differential exists , then it 's going to be hard to close the attainment gap for those children . mark reckless am : i was actually quite shocked just reading in advance of this meeting that the proportion attending 95 per cent or more , who have pretty full attendance , was only 35 per cent for free-school-meal children at level 4 , compared to 60 per cent for non-free-school-meal pupils . it still is an extraordinary difference . my colleague here showed me , i think , last week , a graph showing the link between attendance and attainment , in particular . when people were absent , a lot of the— . as i 'm sure you 're aware , there 's a huge connection . what more can pdg do to deal with it ? in the example you give i can see how a school with an awful lot of free-school-meal children could do that , but a lot of the free-school-meal children are actually in schools that do n't have that high a proportion of free school meals , where it would be much more challenging to bring in that type of initiative . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about why children on free school meals were less resilient in the exam system last year . </s> kirsty williams am : yes . so , if you look at it—with the usual caveats about whether you can make direct comparisons on level 2 plus between the exams the year before and the exams that we had last summer—on the face of it , the gap has increased . i think what 's important to recognise , hefin , is a direction of travel . i 'm sure we all want to , because i want to , have a discussion about why children on free school meals were less resilient in the exam system last year . but , if we look at the period that we have been employing pdg , over that period , we have seen a narrowing of the gap . i think what 's quite stark , if we think about it— . so , if we look at where we started from : in 2009 , one in five children on free school meals got level 2 plus—one in five—by 2016 , we had got that down to one in three . obviously , there 's still a way to go , but , sir alasdair , who knows about these things , says that that is a significant improvement . last year , we got some challenges . we need to understand why that happened , but i do think it's— hefin david am : why , do you think ? kirsty williams am : why , do i think ? what i do think is there is no one answer . there is no one answer to this . i think we could look at and we can have discussions around the move from btec to science gcses . i think we have supplied figures to the committee about the significant change in the number of children on free school meals who were n't doing a single science gcse and are now doing science gcses . we can look at the unintended consequences of literature . again , we 've supplied figures . where children have done language and literature , whether that be through the medium of english or through the medium of welsh , there is more resilience . so , it 's that exposure to literacy in all its forms that i think could potentially make a difference . so , i think there 's no one answer to why free-school-meal children were not so resilient last year . we continue to have discussions with qualifications wales to get a better understanding of this . at my next ministerial policy board , in may , we 'll be doing a deep dive into this particular subject . hefin david am : so , to what extent would exam boards be responsible for lack of grade stability ? kirsty williams am : it could be one of the contributory factors . what i think is important is that there is no one , single reason why there seems to be less resilience in this cohort of children . hefin david am : will you be speaking to the exam boards about this and raising concerns ? </s>
<s> what is the role of schools with pdg for looked-after children as compared to the regional consortia in this field ? </s> mark reckless am : i think my questions are first , but , michelle , please do correct me if you were planning to come in before . the pdg for looked-after children does n't quite seem to have the degree of visibility as the pdg for the free-school-meals . i think we had the mori/wiserd survey—only 15 per cent of primary schools and 23 per cent of secondary schools were aware that pdg was targeted at looked-after children . i just wonder—can you clarify on the record here what is the role of schools with pdg for looked-after children as compared to the regional consortia in this field ? kirsty williams am : okay . i think it is absolutely fair to say that most awareness around pdg is around free school meals . there is less awareness around the availability of pdg to support looked-after children . i think that 's probably in the nature of the cohort , so , there are more children subject to free school meals than are subject to being looked after . so , i think that 's part of the explanation . a decision was taken in 2015 to regionalise pdg for looked-after children . my understanding was that the thinking behind that at the time was around a greater strategic deployment of that resource and to try and drive a greater impact than how it was being used previously . so , looked-after pdg is held at a regional level . we have looked-after children pdg co-ordinators—they 're in their second year this year—to look at a regional deployment of that resource . and that resource can be done in a variety of ways , through individual allocation to a school to support an individual child , through to capacity building for the whole system . so , for instance , if i give you an example , in carmarthenshire , there 's been a big emphasis on attachment disorder and training teachers with regard to the impact of attachment disorder . carmarthenshire happens to be one of those local authorities that does quite well in terms of attainment for looked-after children . but , clearly , i have—not concerns . 'concerns ' is n't the right word . but i have asked officials to give greater scrutiny to how that resource has been used in the last year . steve , on my behalf , wrote out to the system , setting out our expectations , but also advising them of the fact we will be asking very detailed questions of accountability for that money . so , what has that money been used on and how can you account for the effect ? but , steve , maybe you can give some greater detail . </s>
<s> what does the group think of the eas consortium 's approach to using the looked-after and adopted pdg as part of a broader approach targeted at vulnerable learners ? </s> kirsty williams am : i 'm a great believer in if we can get it right for our most vulnerable learners , we 'll be getting it right for all of our learners . i gave the example earlier , for instance , of attachment disorder , and , chair , you will know that i have had conversations . one of the emerging themes for me , as i go around visiting schools , is the impact and the growing awareness and the growing numbers of children who have attachment disorder , and how schools are best able to respond to that in their children . so , for instance , as i said about carmarthenshire , there 's been a huge effort to address that in the school sector in carmarthenshire . now , that has a disproportionate benefit for those children , because you 're more likely to see attachment disorder in children who are care experienced , because of the nature of the lives that those children have lived , but that does n't necessarily mean that attachment disorder is exclusively found in those children that are looked after . it can be found in other families as well . so , that vulnerable learner , regardless of their background , will benefit from having teachers who are better trained , understanding and have intervention strategies in place to be able to address that need . steve davies : i think it 's also important to add that this is not one region 's approach ; this is across four regions , so the others— . for example , erw have run a significant programme looking at the impact of adverse childhood experiences on pupils , which has enabled teachers to detect some of the impact of some of those and then considers some of the work they need to do within the school but also with other agencies . so , it is something that's applied consistently across the four regions . kirsty williams am : i was in pil primary school recently where they use their pdg , both fsm pdg , and no doubt an element of pdg for looked-after , for nurture groups . so , for those children who really , really find it very difficult to be in the main classroom , they can have that nurture group experience to address issues around emotional behaviour , feelings , and it gets them in a position where they are able then to join the main classroom because issues around behaviour have been addressed and they 're in a better position to learn . so , again , this is an example of how vulnerable learners in the wider sense can benefit . </s>
<s> what does the group discuss about the dataset on tracking adopted children ? </s> mark reckless am : yes . can i follow up on tracking adopted children ? i entirely understand that you ca n't force parents to disclose that their child is adopted . however , my understanding was that , in england , there was a dataset with social services that was shared with schools in a way that i 'm not clear is happening in wales and how , if at all , that links to the pupil level annual school census data . perhaps sort of linked to that , is n't there an argument for making the parents of adopted children in the schools , potentially , with adopted children more aware that adopted children who were previously looked after have this potential grant , and would they not be more willing to disclose this , at least confidentially to the school and government , if they knew there was this upside of doing so ? </s>
<s> what does the group think of the exclusion rates amongst looked-after children ( over six times more likely to be given a fixed-term exclusion ) ? </s> julie morgan am : and then just one more question about the exclusion rates amongst looked-after children . they are , i understand , over six times more likely to be given a fixed-term exclusion . so , is there any way of trying to address this ? is the pdg used for anything to do with exclusions ? </s>
<s> what lessons the government is taking from that three-year investment of schools challenge cymru into the school improvement agenda ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : the reason i was asking was i wanted to understand what lessons the government is taking from that three-year investment , really , and how , maybe , you 're applying some of those lessons to your wider school improvement programme . i know professor mel ainscow identified six interconnected lessons , although i also note that the cabinet secretary did n't actually meet him for about six or seven months after coming into post . so , i 'm just wondering , can you give us confidence that , actually , you are serious about taking lessons from schools challenge cymru and applying them to the wider school improvement agenda ? </s>
<s> what is the progressing condition of the schools challenge cymru ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : so , you 're confident that that level of momentum is continuing through the consortia that was previously enjoyed by those particular schools , and you 're also confident that there is minimal risk that they 'll slip back to where they were , potentially , or at least part of the way back . kirsty williams am : well , actually , there are some really good examples of some of the schools challenge cymru schools making that sustained improvement now that the programme has come to an end . you only have to look at tredegar , where we have seen continual improvement and moving up through the categorisation system . that school is now a green school , so they 've been able to sustain their progress at the end of the programme . if we look at armando in eastern high school , again—gosh , my goodness me , we had lots of debates in a previous chamber about the future of eastern . there was one person that said that eastern had to be closed and that the only way forward for that particular school was for it to be shut down , but what we have seen is investment via schools challenge cymru , but ongoing , continual support from the regional consortium , and that school has come out of special measures . i pay absolute tribute to the staff of that school and that community that have done such a good job . so , i 'm absolutely convinced that where we 've got good leadership and good support , some of those schools are making continued , sustained progress even after the end of the programme . the challenge for me is for those schools that schools challenge cymru did n't work for , and we have n't seen that progress—how we can use our school improvement system now to continue to work with those schools to give them the level of support that they need to make a difference . so that 's what my focus is on now : a whole-system approach , rather than choosing 39 schools to get that level of support , when we recognise that there are schools everywhere , potentially , that need intervention , support and challenge , and in the primary sector as well . llyr gruffydd am : okay . so , you would n't agree with a number of—well , the near-unanimous evidence that we 've had from academics , some of whom are government advisers from consortia et cetera , that this kind of programme such as schools challenge cymru would probably need about five years to really have the impact that it was intended to have . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on the roles regional consortia and cabinet secretary should play . </s> john griffiths am : some questions on regional consortia , cabinet secretary , and , first of all , the role that you believe they should play and how schools use pdg . kirsty williams am : well , it 's an absolute— . it 's one of the things that i have been very clear to the regional consortia that i expect their challenge and support advisers to be asking schools about . so , one of the conversations that they need to have when they are in schools is exploring , with that school , how they are using their pdg , and how they 're demonstrating an impact for those resources . so , it 's a fundamental role for the challenge and support advisers in the regional consortia in their school improvement work . it 's crucial . john griffiths am : that sort of brings to mind some of the research that 's been done on the role of the challenge advisers , cabinet secretary , which suggested that they 're not actually challenging schools in that way , and that there 's very little evidence of schools changing their decisions on the use of pdg as a result of any challenge from those challenge advisers . so , how would you respond to those findings ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , in my scrutiny of the role and success of our regional consortia , i specifically asked them about free-school-meal performance and the use of pdg within their particular region . i think there is increasing evidence to suggest that good use is being made of that resource , and i think that is being fed back into us . estyn tell us that it 's one of the areas of school expenditure that is closely linked to research and an evidence base . but , clearly , there is more to do , and that 's why we have appointed the new regional advisers for pdg going forward , because we think there can be improvements in how this agenda can be supported at a regional level . john griffiths am : okay . so , you would recognise the findings from that research . kirsty williams am : yes . there 's always more that we can do , and we are strengthening that role by the appointment of the new regional pdg advisers , so that individual school challenge advisers know what they should be looking for , know what they should be doing , and there is a regional approach to good practice . </s>
<s> what does the group think of the extent they 'd like to see the pdg used to track the progress of eligible pupils ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . as we 've got a couple of minutes left , if i can just jump back to the issue of practical uses of the pdg—because it 's the only thing we have n't really covered and it would be good to get on the record—can i ask to what extent you 'd like to see the pdg used to track the progress of eligible pupils ? and the committee 's heard that there are several different tracking systems and tools used by schools . to what extent is that an issue to do with what the welsh government is promoting ? or is it down to consortia or individual schools ? and do you think there needs to be a more centralised push on how the tracking is undertaken ? kirsty williams am : firstly , can i say it 's absolutely crucial that we track performance , absolutely crucial ? that 's the bedrock . we do n't dictate to individual schools the nature of the system that they should employ in their school . there are a number of different programmes that allow schools to do this , but we are absolutely clear , and best practice and evidence shows us , that individual pupil tracking is key and crucial . and , as i said in the beginning , where we were n't tracking pupils at all , initial investment in pdg was used to establish these systems within schools . again , one of the outcomes from the schools challenge review , and one of the lessons learnt , was , again , the importance of individual tracking of pupils throughout their school career . but we do n't dictate a single system . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . kirsty williams am : but the principle is a really important one . lynne neagle am : okay , and you do n't think there 's more scope to look at what the best system is that can be recommended to schools . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : hello again . user interface : hello . industrial designer : hi . marketing : hey , project manager . project manager : user interface : um , project manager , i have something to tell you . project manager : mm yeah . user interface : i have a little problems with my laptop . project manager : okay . user interface : and uh s s s so i had a little less time to complete . project manager : okay . user interface : no , a little problem , uh big problem . i just thought marketing : what was it , problem ? user interface : um , it did n't work anymore . marketing : the laptop ? user interface : the entire windows uh marketing : it hang hung . user interface : it it hung . project manager : marketing : ha-ha . oh . project manager . project manager : yes . yes . industrial designer : marketing : you 're our project manager . project manager : your project manager . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : welcome to the conceptual design meeting industrial designer : marketing : project manager : for real reaction . marketing : project manager : uh , hello again . uh it 's uh the same as the last time . uh uh , also this time there will be uh three presentations . industrial designer : project manager : and we um must uh reach a decision on uh the remote control concepts . um uh , and at the end , uh i uh , when i finish it off i have some uh input from uh a master class i uh visited . information . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : during lunch , yeah . marketing : master . user interface : he 's the master , yeah . project manager : industrial designer : project manager : the the the the the concepts on uh we uh where we uh must reach a decision on . um uh , our from uh are of two sorts . marketing : master of project manager : components concepts and user interface concepts . uh , the first one is uh really about the the the the the total package uh with uh well , we have decided to do a do the uh with a touch-screen that must be a case around it so uh it wo n't be uh uh as breakable . uh how how about the energy ? can you uh can you reload it or uh just have batteries which you must exchange ? uh , the user interface concept . uh , with the type and uh the the supplements . so uh where to put what button . and uh uh i would say uh jans , can you begin ? industrial designer : yeah , sure . project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : at the end , uh i will take notes uh and at the end of the minutes uh will uh be at the shared folder . industrial designer : okay . uh , let me see . i think it 's this one . ha . right . uh , well , i 'll be talking about the components . marketing : industrial designer : uh , what i did was i reviewed previously used items uh by uh two two uh different uh age groups . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh below forty five and above . and uh i just uh watch what the differences are and i checked uh , well , what what d do we want , and how can we uh d aim a at uh the target group . well uh what i found was that a senior um project manager : industrial designer : senior citizens uh marketing : i 'm sorry . industrial designer : ye ah , it 's it 's okay . marketing : okay . go on . industrial designer : uh they , well , they like more the they like the traditional materials , like wood and and such more . marketing : industrial designer : wood and chrome . project manager : industrial designer : and uh uh they like uh straightforward shapes . um , uh they they they they like luxurious uh styles , where whereas the young and dynamic , they like a more uh soft materials . think of the teletubbies , for instance . project manager : industrial designer : uh uh , soft and fluffy and colourful and marketing : industrial designer : well uh , shapes are curved and round . marketing : industrial designer : y y you get the picture . and uh they like sports and gaming , and that gives them uh the vitality . uh , so w well uh , firs project manager : one one little question . um about the the material . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh a soft material for a remote control ? industrial designer : no , i 'll i 'll get to that . project manager : okay . yeah . industrial designer : you you 'll see . yeah . project manager : thank you . industrial designer : uh , well f first off , let 's start start with the energy . w i uh i had a choice between uh a few different uh sources . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but uh the two basic sources that i found were the best possible were the battery uh versus kinetic . uh kinetic , that 's when you move something , then uh it gets energy . i figured , well that 's ki kinda high-tech , when when you have a remote control that well , when you pick it up , it has power . that would be actually very nice , uh i figured . well , we could also use a battery , that 's a bit marketing : yeah but when the power gets low , you have to shake it or something ? project manager : user interface : industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah , you c just you have to shake it around a little bit . marketing : uh , and uh uh industrial designer : and then then it d then it has some more uh energy . project manager : industrial designer : well , y you could just go for a battery . or you can go for both ? user interface : oh , have you considered the option of using a solar panel ? industrial designer : yeah , i actually did . but uh the thing is about solar panel is you have to have l uh light . well , sunlight preferably . user interface : w nah . industrial designer : uh , and you you could you could use normal light , but uh you would n't get the same amount of energy that you would from a battery or something . user interface : mm . yeah . industrial designer : uh for uh ultimate b uh n uh use of uh solar panels , you could actually use uh you could use uh solar panels , but uh you ha you 'd have to implement them into uh the remote control , leaving you uh a bit less space for the interface . marketing : mm yeah . it 's too less space . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so uh so i i it it wo what 's actually i i c just in f i 've figured it out that well , uh seeing that you 'll always be uh within the l uh distance of tv , and the from tv there comes a a a whole bunch of light . so it would actually power itself uh from a tv . marketing : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but , well you just take up all the space , and you would n't uh have the full amount of power actually used . user interface : okay . project manager : but you prefer kinetic ? industrial designer : so i i prefer kinetic because it 's uh well , the costs are n't that much higher , and um , ju just a bit more high-tech than than a normal battery . project manager : okay . yeah , but you do n't move a a remote control too much . industrial designer : i mean , if no , but uh d well , you pick it up and you press buttons and y well , you project manager : and that 's enough to to keep the energy level uh industrial designer : yeah , well uh actually it is . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it it if it is n't , you just shake it a bit and and add add with power up again . marketing : project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but , what l what jarek said , you could you could use a battery that you 'd just keep it on the recharging whenever it moves . and for rest , you 'd just add juice on the battery . project manager : okay . marketing : and when the battery does n't work , i usually shake it too . so project manager : thank you , tim . user interface : industrial designer : exactly . marketing : like slamming on it . it 's exactly the same . industrial designer : and so that uh uh well , user interface : industrial designer : f furthermore , you you we uh checked uh the cases . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : we have uh different options uh concerning the cases . you ha i you sim uh you simply add a basic uh standard uh model uh it was kind of square and uh i figured that 's a bit boring . so you you we could go for uh the single curved or the double curved . um , single curve , it 's just a well , uh , you know , it 's just uh a nice curve . or but but you could go in a in an double curves . and that 's like several different dimensions . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : that gives you an whole new uh effec project manager : dynamic dynamic look ? industrial designer : yeah , that gives you a younger and uh more high-tech look , i f i figured . but , that uh we 'll discuss later . marketing : but , are you going to draw it ? industrial designer : what ? user interface : th th yeah . yeah . industrial designer : you want me to draw in three-d_ ? marketing : the yeah . yeah . project manager : marketing : uh , i c i ca n't imagine . industrial designer : uh , yeah , i ca i ca i could i could show you . i could show you . marketing : i ca n't imagine how how how it looks like . user interface : industrial designer : well uh let 's say y uh you uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : let 's say that 's your standard uh marketing : design . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that 's a bit your d standard design . but you could actually go like uh something like this . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and then uh in three-d_ effect you could go user interface : um marketing : uh project manager : industrial designer : so y you you just yeah , this is a this bit uh difficulty in marketing : user interface : industrial designer : i did n't take a major in art . so but but you could have uh uh a whole new uh the back back the the the depth , you could you could uh just play around a bit with . marketing : oh , okay . okay . industrial designer : you you do n't have to use standard uh marketing : oh , okay . project manager : a little artistic . industrial designer : yeah you could y it leaves more space for creativity . project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh that might be an idea , marketing : okay . industrial designer : but just a well , furthermore , uh well , uh plastic versus rubber ? you we could choose uh what uh what 's better , plastic um or rubber . i i ch prefer rubber because it feels uh yeah . project manager : it 's soft . industrial designer : yeah , it 's soft and it 's that i like soft . project manager : that 's the material the younger people want uh , ai n't it ? user interface : industrial designer : yeah , yeah i mean uh plastic uh is plastic also has that cheap feeling to it , like plastic uh your your i usually associate plastic with uh something that 's cheap . uh that 's maybe just me , but uh , we could uh uh , oh , talk about it later . uh furthermore , buttons . uh traditional uh or a touch screen . well , we discussed it in a previous meeting , so i figured i 'll just leave it at the lcd . and uh chip set , well uh if we are going to use traditional buttons , we could go uh with a simple chip set . but uh if we decide to go on a n uh um lcd screen , we would use an uh we have to use an a advanced chip set . and that would bring uh the necessary costs with with it . so that 's something we th have to keep in mind . if it is n't uh manageable uh budget-wise , we 'd have to go over to uh to sim to simple buttons . marketing : well , i think uh we 're going to sell tell ten millions of them . so uh i bet a big company in uh korea or taiwan , like uh samsung , can give us uh a big discount on the chips , so industrial designer : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , probably . marketing : u usually , chips are uh are n't more expensive than one dollar . industrial designer : yeah , probably , but but uh yeah , that 's that 's marketing : so that that should n't be a real issue , i think . industrial designer : that should n't should n't be uh that big a issue . i 'll i 'll i 'll just add , uh uh i put a big summary here , so we could discuss it a bit . uh what i what are your ideas concerning battery versus kinetic ? marketing : user interface : um , i think you should use kinetic as a back-up . industrial designer : yeah , you you you should we should marketing : yeah , a combination . user interface : a combination , yeah . industrial designer : a combination . uh , you use the battery and w charge it up with kinetic . when you pick it up , it charges up . marketing : yeah . like an uh aku uh industrial designer : yeah . marketing : acu uh , yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah , i know . user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : just like the watch from seiko . marketing : well , . yeah . user interface : psycho-kinetic . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i con exactly . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : what uh what do you think ? project manager : i i uh i would prefer uh both uh too . industrial designer : you agree ? project manager : yeah . combine them . industrial designer : yeah ? both ? marketing : combine them . industrial designer : okay . uh , well that would bring the m m some more costs , but i mean the marketing : okay . industrial designer : who cares , right . project manager : industrial designer : that 's the project manager 's problem . user interface : buy a fifty cents battery and uh marketing : of course . fifty cent . project manager : industrial designer : yeah , well fifty cent uh user interface : industrial designer : uh , why does n't and then we have single-curved versus double-curved . user interface : well maybe i have something in my presentation to uh to cope with that . industrial designer : that okay . no , we 'll we 'll just wait and uh uh , plastic versus rubber . any ideas ? marketing : rubber . project manager : rubber . yeah . industrial designer : uh , rubber ? user interface : um , is n't possible to make combination with kind of rubber is or bendable remotes where you 've got a . industrial designer : you user interface : or do you think it industrial designer : uh , i figured it will be m rather than hard user interface : rubber casing , yeah . industrial designer : nah , rubber c uh this is a casing , yeah . rubber casing , marketing : rather hard . industrial designer : because well if you use an uh d a touch-screen , uh it 's just a casing uh around it . so um , you could go for plastic , but i figured user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : um , well d maybe i can ask it right now the question that i have . industrial designer : i i i would choose rubber . user interface : uh , is it possible uh of is it necessary to make a touch-screen square ? it is n't , i think , yeah ? industrial designer : well , m i do n't know . no . marketing : well , i think that touch-screens are generally square . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but it 's the case you put around it that makes the shape . user interface : we 're we put fashion in electronics , industrial designer : that is n't user interface : so maybe we can uh marketing : hmm ? yeah okay , but if you have a square uh lcd screen , and you put a case around it that has uh like bulbs or that that covers part of the lcd screen . user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , that would cover it . marketing : that industrial designer : that that would solve the problem . user interface : oh , yeah . okay , i i get it . marketing : that 's it 's custom customisable and project manager : mm yeah . industrial designer : so mm uh uh so uh so what are the opinions ? uh rubber or plastic ? i i i prefer rubber . marketing : yeah , me too . project manager : me too . user interface : okay . project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : yeah , you too ? user interface : that 's good . industrial designer : you sure ? you you you seemed to hesitate a bit . user interface : well , as long a as long as it 's it 's uh it 's firm , and you do n't uh it 's not bendable or something , project manager : marketing : mm yeah . user interface : i th i think that goes too far . industrial designer : yeah , it it should n't it should n't flop over when you hold it in your hand uh project manager : okay . user interface : oh . industrial designer : no , that that that that 's gon na the the chip set will hold it firm in place , marketing : user interface : okay . industrial designer : and uh and and uh and a lcd screen also user interface : it might even bounce back when you drop it on the floor . industrial designer : yeah it m might it might . project manager : user interface : okay . marketing : industrial designer : uh , tra uh traditional versus lcd , well i figured we we all set on that . marketing : industrial designer : and uh , then also the simple versus advanced . well i figure if we go for l_ lcd , we we should have the advanced . project manager : mm yeah . industrial designer : so that should n't be a problem . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay , well that 's my uh project manager : thank you . industrial designer : uh , you 're welcome . marketing : can i uh do my thing ? project manager : yeah . do your thing , tim . marketing : it uh user interface : do your thing . industrial designer : project manager : bring it on . marketing : expert map . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay uh last week project manager : marketing : i went to uh paris and milan for some trend-watching . industrial designer : marketing : for marketing . our research and development department and i went to paris and milan . in paris and milan , we uh asked different people , uh differing in age and in income , uh the amount of money to spend , um what they like in design uh and material nowadays . findings . our main audience , uh so that 's people below forty , uh prefer the following . at first , the colours of fruit . project manager : marketing : very basic colours , like janus explained . um , fresh colours , uh green , red , uh strawberry red , uh yellow , banana yellow . project manager : marketing : um , considering material , um yeah . they like spongy material , industrial designer : user interface : spongeball . marketing : like yeah a sponge-ball . user interface : marketing : like a s soft material . project manager : yeah . marketing : janus m uh mentioned it also . i think he did some uh some findings himself . industrial designer : well , the teletubbies sh project manager : marketing : you wer you were n't in paris ? okay . like this . like big uh g flashy colours . fresh . project manager : flashy . yeah . marketing : it 's nice , i think . okay , our secondary audience , uh people above forty a forty years in age , they like the dark traditional colours . uh yeah , uh materials like wood that project manager : yeah , but wood is not a not a material you which you build a a remote control of . industrial designer : well , you could . you you could . marketing : no n j just j just a w project manager : yeah but never seen one . user interface : it 'll float . marketing : no , okay , but just just a wooden uh look . project manager : case . oh , a wooden look , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like uh you have those fake uh fake panels on the floor . user interface : tables . project manager : okay . industrial designer : marketing : the that is n't wood anyway , but okay ? but , that 's our secondary audience . project manager : yeah . marketing : so , uh we decided to take mm yeah the people below forty . project manager : yeah . marketing : so , that this does n't apply . 'kay , the third . uh , there 're some overall thoughts about new remote controls . they have to look fancy . um , they should be technological in innovative . that means uh there have to be fancy things in . uh , and easy to use . but that 's common . my personal preferences . we have to aim at a mu at the main audience . and uh , therefore use fresh colours . project manager : would you prefer uh uh that you can choose the colour of your uh remote control or marketing : uh , i 'll i 'll come to that in a second point . project manager : okay . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : here , think about removable covers , as seen in mobile telephon telephone market . to customise your own remote control . project manager : okay . industrial designer : marketing : like the nokia uh the removable covers , uh just put a red on it and go to the shop and buy a green one . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : uh , a third , material being used uh could well be stuff like rubber . um , two advantages . uh , it fits within the current market trends . and uh it adds safety to your remote uh when you drop it . so uh to come back to your question , i think uh and the people in milan and paris also think that uh the rubber should be pretty hard . like uh seen on regular mobile phones . actually , they have a lot in common . the phones and the project manager : industrial designer : well , i actually saw a phone that you could use as a remote , so yeah . marketing : yeah . yeah . okay . project manager : maybe you could use your remote as a phone . user interface : hey . project manager : there are numbers on it , so uh industrial designer : that might be a next step . marketing : yeah , exactly . project manager : marketing : uh , in my second sheet of personal preferences , uh we have to reconsider the speech function uh recognition . user interface : marketing : uh , it 's very innovative . innovative . project manager : so that you say um s_p_s_s_ , and it goes to uh marketing : yeah , like something . project manager : okay . marketing : you you can see that the market is just screaming for new technologies , like speak uh speech recognition and stuff . but , we have to keep the cost in uh in mind , but it user interface : twelve fifty uh marketing : yeah , it it can be uh very expensive . project manager : marketing : 'kay , second . project manager : marketing : uh , building games like snake or tetris to amuse the younger users . industrial designer : marketing : uh , also the link with uh mobile phones . uh project manager : yeah , but you do n't use that th games when you watching television , i think . industrial designer : well , yeah . marketing : no , but no , okay . but you do n't use games when you 're d when you 're making a telephone call . it 's just the same . user interface : when your parents are watching some boring program , you can take the remote and do something else . project manager : marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . marketing : when you 're at college . project manager : you take your remote control with you . user interface : take it . industrial designer : you take your uh remote with you to school . marketing : uh no . you al you also take uh t industrial designer : yeah . marketing : you take your ipac and go uh play games . yeah . yeah . well , i do that , but okay , and um project manager : industrial designer : marketing : and third , i stick with it , the log-in functionality uh with the slogan , take parental control to a new dimension . user interface : ooh . s industrial designer : very nice . marketing : that 's it . project manager : uh great . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : marketing : project manager : user interface : in okay . um the interface contents . well that 's a just simple powerpoint mock-up i want to m make it more as dynamic for you so i 'll draw there . but , the main concept is um take one big touch screen . um , always display the primary buttons clear and visible . maybe even li like this with uh u uses of a lot of space . and uh make the menu structure changeable . so if you press um system , that 's marketing : user interface : yeah , well m multiple system options can , maybe five or ten or or one , can fit in . or maybe even a step further when you want to um t um have some other options that are not programmable with one horizontal button . and um other buttons can may be displayed here if that 's necessary . and um well , how do uh do we want to look at uh uh f um yeah does a remote look well , it 's you 've got ta hold it in one hand . so um the middle like all remotes have to be in a little bit small , so you can put it in inside your hands . and some remotes you can use with your thumb . but i think that 's too difficult for this one . so you can make it s a little broader . yeah . and here ? and maybe use your thumb on the on the main buttons . and use your other hands on the menu structure . so here are gon na be the program buttons . one , two , three , four , et cetera . and the the volume control and program control maybe . and , down here , um , i added , this could be one uh big lcd . um , the menu structure . so you can use it in uh in this way . um one thing you 've got ta keep in mind , keep the remote clear of too much functions at the same time . project manager : user interface : um , know that if you are changing the menu structure here , um and well , i still believe you should keep displaying the buttons . but if you 're programming the colour of the tv , do not display twenty other options that are possible . just keep it as simple as uh as possible . and do not use too many levels . do not have to select a screen first and then brightness and then colour and un-plus , and um push plus twenty times . project manager : user interface : but just the um uh just in one button if possible . and um , well , you kn you all know the tv levels . um , channel one , two . and when you get to n to uh to ten , ye and want to go back , uh well you have a problem . just m most most modern tvs , you you press one zero , and it goes to ten . and else , to one and through after that . so the s a button less . and um , things like teletext , put them in the menu . things like um um yeah . marketing : yeah . uh , what do you think about a back-and-forth come-up uh button ? project manager : user interface : yeah , yeah w yeah , i i find i must trying to uh tell it . marketing : l like in uh internet explorer . user interface : is uh volume plus and minus ? and this is program uh plus and minus . uh marketing : yeah okay , but does it that is for uh going from four to five . but if you go from two to eight , and you want user interface : or if you 're watching studio sports on uh on seventeen , and your wife is watching some soap on two marketing : yeah , and on two . that you can switch switch easy . user interface : well yes , i think that 's a good idea . but um , well m my preference would to be put it in the menu structure . marketing : yeah it is . yeah . user interface : and if you 're using that button a lot of times , well of course the menu will still be displayed on the screen . you just do n't have to play games uh in-between . but if you 're really switching between two channels , you wo n't have time uh to d use the other options . marketing : mm no . user interface : um , yeah already already told that . marketing : that 's it . user interface : yeah . that 's my conclusion . project manager : oh , okay . marketing : okay . project manager : uh i think we can discuss a little about the the three uh kind of revolutionary things uh tim uh came with . the parental control , the games , and the voice recognition . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : uh industrial designer : project manager : there 's n not uh too much decision on uh that one so uh i think that parental control is a good function to uh to put in the remote . i do n't know how you think about it . marketing : yeah . user interface : well , i agree , just put it in the menu structure somewhere . project manager : yeah . user interface : um , yeah um system properties , um parental control . marketing : yeah but what i see uh how i see it is you put it on the the remote and then you have like a windows log-on screen with parents , children . user interface : yeah . mm . project manager : yeah . marketing : something like that . user interface : um , w well , yeah . marketing : and w when you want to use the parents uh option , you have to user interface : it it has to be fast . you do n't want to to go down and watch the news at eight o'clock and turn it on and wait twenty seconds for for uh the log-on screen and then remember your code and all kinds of settings . marketing : yeah , ok project manager : no but i think most people uh find it uh much more important that their children do n't watch uh sex or violence uh on the television , and uh wait uh ten or fifteen seconds longer , so they can uh finally watch it uh because of that . user interface : mm-hmm . why mm-hmm . you c may use like when there 's uh x_p_ , uh a simple log-on , d you just push uh one or two or three . project manager : uh marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . pu push parents . user interface : and if you push parents , then marketing : that then then then you have to uh go to three-digit uh log-in . user interface : yeah . to log in . yeah . and if you puts a ye marketing : like two one three . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : and it 's in . user interface : and if you w you push p children , uh you do n't have to uh log in , but you can only watch uh children 's channels or uh marketing : it automatically goes yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : okay . well industrial designer : i do n't know if it 's worth uh the time and effort we are going to spend on it . because well it 's a simple function , but it 's gon na take a lot of resources and a lot of time um to programming it . because you 'll have to start working with the profiles and such . and i 'm not sure if it 's actually worth uh investing that much time and effort into it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well i think that 's a b there 's a big market for it , industrial designer : i do n't know what project manager : because uh you yeah , you read many times in magazines same kind of stuff , and you heard on the news that uh that he yeah , they believe that children uh are influenced by the television , industrial designer : marketing : mm yeah . v violent tv . project manager : and uh well , we 're we 're aiming uh to uh below uh forty uh years . but there are a lot of uh people will below forty who have uh children in young age uh who who want um to uh not watch uh violent or uh user interface : yeah . well , maybe um some idea on that . project manager : yeah . user interface : just make through a remote as it is , but make an option to insert profiles , project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause if my grandad would buy this remote , he would n't want to bother with all all the all the uh things to do . marketing : yeah , of course . project manager : yeah . user interface : just make it an option in menu , ins install powerful profiles or something . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's a that 's a better idea ? marketing : yeah , w it just has to be w when it 's deliver out of the store , it has to be just simple and plain . project manager : yeah . yeah , okay . marketing : but if you want to install it personally uh if i got kids , and i could choose between uh two remote controls . one uh w with parent control and one without , and i would would buy the one with . project manager : yeah , with and one without . yeah . user interface : um , b well , still some question i have about how to incorporate those ones . marketing : i th yeah . user interface : you 're thinking about some channels they uh can not see , but well , i i when i think , oh yeah , for the f for all the standard channels , and only for maybe after ten o'clock uh in the evening violent films and movies uh will come industrial designer : marketing : user interface : and uh maybe maybe some some timing uh will be uh needed instead of uh of channels , marketing : yeah . user interface : because if you 're watching uh , i do n't know , you 're in the at day uh , cartoons will come up m on maybe friday night . i do n't know . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : yeah , maybe it can work with show view . uh , you you can control your video recorder with show view . user interface : project manager : uh , when you tick in a number , it will uh start and end uh recording . but maybe there 's some option that uh that t uh the kind of show view numbers are violent , and that they are blocked out . user interface : yeah , the disadvantage vantage is that someone will has to send all the show-view numbers of the programs that they remotes and edit it all , project manager : yeah . that 's true . yeah . user interface : will have to decide uh marketing : yeah but yeah but that is n't possible . user interface : that is n't possible . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but , well , if you want to i i i if we in incorporate uh the parental control , uh let 's say we do , and and well whatever , cho uh child just goes up to the tv and presses up for instance . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well uh , nob nobody 's stopping the child from uh well checking uh the channel . user interface : well , yeah you could say if parental control is only it it 'll go from fourteen to sixteen with the page-up then , but industrial designer : but that well , i 'm not sure because um for that to happen , you d you will have to receive a signal from the uh remote control , so it would , yeah , have to be constant uh constant signalling . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : what m what may be better is to incorporate an uh a separate device that uh that you can program with the remote control . and that uh provides parental control , for instance . and that 's just an optional uh device . so there 's n that 's there 's uh besides uh the remote control , you 'll have a separate uh project manager : i would n't put it in an optional device . that that then then then it becomes too much , i think . industrial designer : yeah ? project manager : if we do it , we we must do it in a kind of ways that like a profile , a parent profile , and a family profile , and otherwise . marketing : yeah , and user interface : yeah , on a separate menu uh option . marketing : and and you know w uh when you install another device , uh children can still go up to the tv , p pop open uh the thing and and and g project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's true . that 's true , marketing : go to a channel . industrial designer : but uh at same instant , same happens when uh you have remote control . so marketing : yeah , yeah of course . but industrial designer : but , only difference is uh the uh the people buying the remote control will now get the f added feature of parental control , project manager : industrial designer : and those people would n't uh necessary want it . marketing : yeah . ah it 's industrial designer : so , you you 'd be marketing : yeah . yeah , okay . but it 's just an an added feature feature . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . and what do you uh guys think of the games in the voice recognition ? i personally think that that becomes too much . user interface : yeah , well yeah , i project manager : it 's more like it gets you to the functionality , but user interface : a mail too from management that it 's very popular to use voice recon recognition . project manager : yeah . user interface : but i do n't think when you 're watching tv uh , hearing loud noises from the tv , someone screaming one , and you f the channel switches , uh yeah . marketing : mm yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , like f voice recognition is too much , i think . but project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : and games ? marketing : games . it does n't industrial designer : yeah . i can see games happening . yeah . user interface : w you can put it on chip anyway , so uh marketing : yeah . project manager : that would user interface : as long as it 's is n't a primary feature of the remote , marketing : that that does n't c that does n't co user interface : but uh marketing : yeah , that that does n't cost a lot of extra resources , i think . project manager : okay . so that will uh that that that must be in it , you think ? industrial designer : yeah , that will be nice . project manager : okay . so the games uh are in it . the voice recognition are not . and the parental control are user interface : optional in project manager : optional ? marketing : yeah , it 's it 's in it . but too ma i i think so , but user interface : but how we do it ? project manager : yeah . user interface : well , i think also it 's a good idea , buts very difficult to incorporate . so we should make it too complex . project manager : okay . user interface : is t some menu uh function , you choose parental control , and maybe four files will emerge from menu where put it on . marketing : yeah . user interface : but uh how how it 's gon na work uh uh will f be a problem . project manager : yeah , okay . uh , but uh will there uh uh like the first idea uh from uh you can buy it without and uh with parental contr control ? or are we going to put it in and uh just uh user interface : mm-hmm . well ye i i think best would be uh to put it in and make it an menu option . marketing : to put user interface : you can put on marketing : yeah , to put it in always . project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah . and you can just uh s when you buy it , you can select um personal preference , parental control on , and the password or something . project manager : mm yeah . industrial designer : well , i do n't know . i i figure if you had two different remotes , you could bo choose one with uh well uh uh a receiver in it . so you could actually easily uh build in uh parental control . but it would would be uh more expensive . so , a and that that way uh you could make cheap model and a expensive model . could ma make the uh simple model and the deluxe model , uh for instance . user interface : oh , it 's a p yeah . marketing : yeah , but tvs are n't capable of sending . industrial designer : yes they are . yeah . marketing : yeah ? i thought they were just project manager : yeah , you yo industrial designer : yeah , you you have some tvs any marketing : a able to receive . yeah , some . but project manager : yeah , but most often not . industrial designer : yeah . that is true , that is true . user interface : well , maybe you just have to restrict it to what programs , where the parent says , you can not watch channel seven , nine , and ten , and you can not watch all channels after ten o'clock . marketing : yeah . user interface : and there 's just some little uh clock in the remote . industrial designer : well yeah , you could you could easily you could easily you could easily to the mote control . marketing : yeah , j just some rules . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but you still have the problem about uh the television itself . user interface : no , no , it 's very simple . there uh th i h i 've seen some of remotes who have a clock in it . industrial designer : yeah , yeah yeah . user interface : so , the remote does does n't transmit when it 's after twelve clock . marketing : yeah , okay . but , on the tv user interface : yeah ? marketing : at least my tv , is a is a compartment which you can press . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and there are buttons uh behind it which you can use , if you d if you do n't if you do n't have a industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . well , that 's to put it very blunt , that 's not our problem . just have um the parents buy uh some glue and uh it 's not not a part of the remote . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah , of course . industrial designer : yeah , that is true . yeah , that is true . user interface : you have to f yeah . industrial designer : yeah , you could you could you could go like user interface : uh , or make it ourselves very diffic industrial designer : uh that that would actually make uh things a lot more easy . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you could just blame it on television and uh make it their problem . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i figured i figure we could do that . yeah , yeah , sure . project manager : user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh , i 'm not sure what marketing thinks about it , but marketing : or j yeah . user interface : marketing : ah project manager : marketing : i have to uh consult my legal advisor about it . project manager : okay . so uh i think we have decided on the things that uh from janus , the energy , the combination between battery and kinetic . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : the case will be double-curved and uh rubber , in a fr flashy fruity colour uh that with cover is removable . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : the buttons will be uh touch-screen . uh but there may not be too many buttons . and in the the menu structure , uh there must not to be uh five minutes to go . uh , too uh too many levels . and uh it must be easy to use . the parental control will be incorporated , but it must be not too complex . and the games are in it . so marketing : project manager : i think we have uh we have decided uh , okay . user interface : okay . marketing : consensus . project manager : uh , little more . marketing : oh . oh . i i have one thing left . project manager : yeah . marketing : maybe for uh jerome . user interface : yeah ? i 'm listening . marketing : um , the views . maybe it 's uh handy to build in an expert view and a simple view . project manager : like a like a moat or s or something . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : um , well industrial designer : user profile . marketing : like at in the experts view , you have a lot of more buttons . project manager : yeah , but you have that in the user interface : what i was thinking about is just a menu structure , when you do n't use it is simple . project manager : yeah . you use the user interface : and when you push uh system properties , uh entire list pops up with e ev all kind of f stuff you can program . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . it 's already incorporated a little in that concept . marketing : mm yeah , okay . fairly enough . yeah . industrial designer : well yeah , you you could actually build in a function that you can program it yourself , for the more advanced users . marketing : yeah , wh which buttons you like or not . industrial designer : yeah , which buttons do you want to in it . because you can you can like build in a back-forward button , and uh some po somebody would just want to watch two channels . marketing : yeah . yeah . just leave the other numbers away . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , you could you could m have people want uh want that . project manager : we take it to the other meeting , okay ? i have a little w uh little chat to do marketing : okay . go on . industrial designer : ah , yeah , sure . project manager : and uh then we uh finish . marketing : a little chat . project manager : i went to uh a master class and uh uh two things uh are uh are uh can come in handy uh for us . industrial designer : project manager : first thing uh is uh we talked about knowledge uh management . knowledge engineering and uh uh the fact that uh that uh that the idea of knowledge , uh sharing and learning knowledge from other companies is uh like that . marketing : project manager : it 's it 's uh very hot at the moment , marketing : project manager : so it 's it 's mostly for the management expert to to look what other uh marketing : marketing . project manager : marketing or did i said management ? marketing : management . project manager : oh . just talking about myself . marketing : yeah , that 's my function , to industrial designer : project manager : uh w user interface : marketing : okay . go on . project manager : what other companies uh had to uh also with the the the the marketing campaign when they put on a newer remote , just some uh yeah . import export . marketing : project manager : and uh another one . industrial designer : user interface : som some bench-marker . project manager : uh , they 're a ha they 're at yeah , benchmarking , that 's the word i saw . marketing : project manager : i uh could n't uh okay , uh another uh thing is uh there were there there was a survey , and um uh it came out that um people like to buy things from a single large provider , instead of those who uh are partnering uh with us . so , we must uh we must bring it as if uh real reaction is uh is big company , uh a trustful company , and uh it has m marketing : how i know a marketing name for our product . project manager : okay . marketing : r_ th r_ to the third power . project manager : marketing : r_ three . real reaction remote . project manager : i had a i had another idea to put uh uh the whole the whole idea of uh real reaction and uh uh uh a single brand and uh uh that kind of thing . marketing : mm-hmm ? project manager : when you uh put on remote , you see a kind of a just like when you telephone , you see a little uh animation . user interface : uh , logo . yeah ? marketing : bling . project manager : real reaction remote . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : and uh with the with the with the motto , we put fashion in electronics . and then you go uh marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : yeah , okay , but it has to be like a split second , because you have to put in a code also and project manager : the user interface : yeah . well , you can show somebody a logo for point five seconds , they 'll still remember it . project manager : yeah . but w th the idea from this uh thing is that we must present it as a as we are a a single large provider who will stand on our own . marketing : yeah . user interface : and it it l linger on every time you see it . industrial designer : well , if you if you have the l lcd screen , you can you can uh have a small logo i uh at the bottom . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and it could just stay there . marketing : that spins around like all the time . project manager : mm yep , yeah . user interface : very annoying . industrial designer : yeah , that spins around or something . project manager : also also . but we we are uh marketing : it it 's just like a uh globe in internet explorer . project manager : yeah yeah y yeah yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , something like that . a small icon . project manager : okay , but uh think about that kind of things . user interface : yeah , i it 's ok for f project manager : that 's what they said in the master class . . marketing : okay . user interface : oh , for the next meeting , right ? industrial designer : marketing : project manager : n uh , next meeting starts in thirty minutes . marketing : who uh project manager : so uh maybe you can go to paris and milan uh once again . marketing : who who gave you the master class ? project manager : the master class ? marketing : ronald betenberg ? project manager : franz mehler 's . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay , thanks . project manager : uh , very special , uh next uh session . industrial designer : project manager : uh idea that you uh the the industrial uh development uh centre and uh user interface uh will work together on a prototype . marketing : user interface : project manager : and uh will drawing it on the smartboard . so that 's a kinda new uh thing . and um , the marketing expert will uh will uh ke he will be keeping busy with the product uh evaluation . but the most uh specific instructions will be sent to you by email . user interface : um industrial designer : so we 're going to work together right now ? user interface : stay here and project manager : yeah , the well , uh dids this what i uh what i heard . i marketing : in the master class . project manager : not in the master class . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : so you uh just wait for the specific instructions and uh user interface : p_ . project manager : but i think it was a very uh very good uh session , uh gentlemen . user interface : ah , no new email . industrial designer : definitely . marketing : me too . project manager : i will thank you all . user interface : okay . industrial designer : well thank you too . user interface : thank you . thank you very much . project manager : and uh marketing : thank you too , lord . project manager : give me a good evaluation . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : uh-huh . marketing : 'kay guys , lot of success . project manager : industrial designer : you wish . user interface : see you . industrial designer : m aye ? cheers . project manager : cheers . see you in a half hour . but keep an eye on your uh laptops for a real uh industrial designer : yeah , uh i 'm not sure if we uh we because i saw something about individual actions . project manager : yeah , but th there 's there 's still the my uh instructions that you will work together . user interface : yeah . here ? or uh project manager : that 's not my problem . user interface : yeah . if you got a project manager : bye-bye . user interface : no . so industrial designer : well , yeah . user interface : stupid manager . project manager : the project manager always works alone . industrial designer : right . uh do you have new email ? </s>
<s> summarize the presentations on components , trend watching , and interface contents . </s> project manager : hello again . user interface : hello . industrial designer : hi . marketing : hey , project manager . project manager : user interface : um , project manager , i have something to tell you . project manager : mm yeah . user interface : i have a little problems with my laptop . project manager : okay . user interface : and uh s s s so i had a little less time to complete . project manager : okay . user interface : no , a little problem , uh big problem . i just thought marketing : what was it , problem ? user interface : um , it did n't work anymore . marketing : the laptop ? user interface : the entire windows uh marketing : it hang hung . user interface : it it hung . project manager : marketing : ha-ha . oh . project manager . project manager : yes . yes . industrial designer : marketing : you 're our project manager . project manager : your project manager . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : welcome to the conceptual design meeting industrial designer : marketing : project manager : for real reaction . marketing : project manager : uh , hello again . uh it 's uh the same as the last time . uh uh , also this time there will be uh three presentations . industrial designer : project manager : and we um must uh reach a decision on uh the remote control concepts . um uh , and at the end , uh i uh , when i finish it off i have some uh input from uh a master class i uh visited . information . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : during lunch , yeah . marketing : master . user interface : he 's the master , yeah . project manager : industrial designer : project manager : the the the the the concepts on uh we uh where we uh must reach a decision on . um uh , our from uh are of two sorts . marketing : master of project manager : components concepts and user interface concepts . uh , the first one is uh really about the the the the the total package uh with uh well , we have decided to do a do the uh with a touch-screen that must be a case around it so uh it wo n't be uh uh as breakable . uh how how about the energy ? can you uh can you reload it or uh just have batteries which you must exchange ? uh , the user interface concept . uh , with the type and uh the the supplements . so uh where to put what button . and uh uh i would say uh jans , can you begin ? industrial designer : yeah , sure . project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : at the end , uh i will take notes uh and at the end of the minutes uh will uh be at the shared folder . industrial designer : okay . uh , let me see . i think it 's this one . ha . right . uh , well , i 'll be talking about the components . marketing : industrial designer : uh , what i did was i reviewed previously used items uh by uh two two uh different uh age groups . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh below forty five and above . and uh i just uh watch what the differences are and i checked uh , well , what what d do we want , and how can we uh d aim a at uh the target group . well uh what i found was that a senior um project manager : industrial designer : senior citizens uh marketing : i 'm sorry . industrial designer : ye ah , it 's it 's okay . marketing : okay . go on . industrial designer : uh they , well , they like more the they like the traditional materials , like wood and and such more . marketing : industrial designer : wood and chrome . project manager : industrial designer : and uh uh they like uh straightforward shapes . um , uh they they they they like luxurious uh styles , where whereas the young and dynamic , they like a more uh soft materials . think of the teletubbies , for instance . project manager : industrial designer : uh uh , soft and fluffy and colourful and marketing : industrial designer : well uh , shapes are curved and round . marketing : industrial designer : y y you get the picture . and uh they like sports and gaming , and that gives them uh the vitality . uh , so w well uh , firs project manager : one one little question . um about the the material . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh a soft material for a remote control ? industrial designer : no , i 'll i 'll get to that . project manager : okay . yeah . industrial designer : you you 'll see . yeah . project manager : thank you . industrial designer : uh , well f first off , let 's start start with the energy . w i uh i had a choice between uh a few different uh sources . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but uh the two basic sources that i found were the best possible were the battery uh versus kinetic . uh kinetic , that 's when you move something , then uh it gets energy . i figured , well that 's ki kinda high-tech , when when you have a remote control that well , when you pick it up , it has power . that would be actually very nice , uh i figured . well , we could also use a battery , that 's a bit marketing : yeah but when the power gets low , you have to shake it or something ? project manager : user interface : industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah , you c just you have to shake it around a little bit . marketing : uh , and uh uh industrial designer : and then then it d then it has some more uh energy . project manager : industrial designer : well , y you could just go for a battery . or you can go for both ? user interface : oh , have you considered the option of using a solar panel ? industrial designer : yeah , i actually did . but uh the thing is about solar panel is you have to have l uh light . well , sunlight preferably . user interface : w nah . industrial designer : uh , and you you could you could use normal light , but uh you would n't get the same amount of energy that you would from a battery or something . user interface : mm . yeah . industrial designer : uh for uh ultimate b uh n uh use of uh solar panels , you could actually use uh you could use uh solar panels , but uh you ha you 'd have to implement them into uh the remote control , leaving you uh a bit less space for the interface . marketing : mm yeah . it 's too less space . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so uh so i i it it wo what 's actually i i c just in f i 've figured it out that well , uh seeing that you 'll always be uh within the l uh distance of tv , and the from tv there comes a a a whole bunch of light . so it would actually power itself uh from a tv . marketing : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but , well you just take up all the space , and you would n't uh have the full amount of power actually used . user interface : okay . project manager : but you prefer kinetic ? industrial designer : so i i prefer kinetic because it 's uh well , the costs are n't that much higher , and um , ju just a bit more high-tech than than a normal battery . project manager : okay . yeah , but you do n't move a a remote control too much . industrial designer : i mean , if no , but uh d well , you pick it up and you press buttons and y well , you project manager : and that 's enough to to keep the energy level uh industrial designer : yeah , well uh actually it is . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it it if it is n't , you just shake it a bit and and add add with power up again . marketing : project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but , what l what jarek said , you could you could use a battery that you 'd just keep it on the recharging whenever it moves . and for rest , you 'd just add juice on the battery . project manager : okay . marketing : and when the battery does n't work , i usually shake it too . so project manager : thank you , tim . user interface : industrial designer : exactly . marketing : like slamming on it . it 's exactly the same . industrial designer : and so that uh uh well , user interface : industrial designer : f furthermore , you you we uh checked uh the cases . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : we have uh different options uh concerning the cases . you ha i you sim uh you simply add a basic uh standard uh model uh it was kind of square and uh i figured that 's a bit boring . so you you we could go for uh the single curved or the double curved . um , single curve , it 's just a well , uh , you know , it 's just uh a nice curve . or but but you could go in a in an double curves . and that 's like several different dimensions . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : that gives you an whole new uh effec project manager : dynamic dynamic look ? industrial designer : yeah , that gives you a younger and uh more high-tech look , i f i figured . but , that uh we 'll discuss later . marketing : but , are you going to draw it ? industrial designer : what ? user interface : th th yeah . yeah . industrial designer : you want me to draw in three-d_ ? marketing : the yeah . yeah . project manager : marketing : uh , i c i ca n't imagine . industrial designer : uh , yeah , i ca i ca i could i could show you . i could show you . marketing : i ca n't imagine how how how it looks like . user interface : industrial designer : well uh let 's say y uh you uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : let 's say that 's your standard uh marketing : design . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that 's a bit your d standard design . but you could actually go like uh something like this . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and then uh in three-d_ effect you could go user interface : um marketing : uh project manager : industrial designer : so y you you just yeah , this is a this bit uh difficulty in marketing : user interface : industrial designer : i did n't take a major in art . so but but you could have uh uh a whole new uh the back back the the the depth , you could you could uh just play around a bit with . marketing : oh , okay . okay . industrial designer : you you do n't have to use standard uh marketing : oh , okay . project manager : a little artistic . industrial designer : yeah you could y it leaves more space for creativity . project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh that might be an idea , marketing : okay . industrial designer : but just a well , furthermore , uh well , uh plastic versus rubber ? you we could choose uh what uh what 's better , plastic um or rubber . i i ch prefer rubber because it feels uh yeah . project manager : it 's soft . industrial designer : yeah , it 's soft and it 's that i like soft . project manager : that 's the material the younger people want uh , ai n't it ? user interface : industrial designer : yeah , yeah i mean uh plastic uh is plastic also has that cheap feeling to it , like plastic uh your your i usually associate plastic with uh something that 's cheap . uh that 's maybe just me , but uh , we could uh uh , oh , talk about it later . uh furthermore , buttons . uh traditional uh or a touch screen . well , we discussed it in a previous meeting , so i figured i 'll just leave it at the lcd . and uh chip set , well uh if we are going to use traditional buttons , we could go uh with a simple chip set . but uh if we decide to go on a n uh um lcd screen , we would use an uh we have to use an a advanced chip set . and that would bring uh the necessary costs with with it . so that 's something we th have to keep in mind . if it is n't uh manageable uh budget-wise , we 'd have to go over to uh to sim to simple buttons . marketing : well , i think uh we 're going to sell tell ten millions of them . so uh i bet a big company in uh korea or taiwan , like uh samsung , can give us uh a big discount on the chips , so industrial designer : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , probably . marketing : u usually , chips are uh are n't more expensive than one dollar . industrial designer : yeah , probably , but but uh yeah , that 's that 's marketing : so that that should n't be a real issue , i think . industrial designer : that should n't should n't be uh that big a issue . i 'll i 'll i 'll just add , uh uh i put a big summary here , so we could discuss it a bit . uh what i what are your ideas concerning battery versus kinetic ? marketing : user interface : um , i think you should use kinetic as a back-up . industrial designer : yeah , you you you should we should marketing : yeah , a combination . user interface : a combination , yeah . industrial designer : a combination . uh , you use the battery and w charge it up with kinetic . when you pick it up , it charges up . marketing : yeah . like an uh aku uh industrial designer : yeah . marketing : acu uh , yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah , i know . user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : just like the watch from seiko . marketing : well , . yeah . user interface : psycho-kinetic . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i con exactly . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : what uh what do you think ? project manager : i i uh i would prefer uh both uh too . industrial designer : you agree ? project manager : yeah . combine them . industrial designer : yeah ? both ? marketing : combine them . industrial designer : okay . uh , well that would bring the m m some more costs , but i mean the marketing : okay . industrial designer : who cares , right . project manager : industrial designer : that 's the project manager 's problem . user interface : buy a fifty cents battery and uh marketing : of course . fifty cent . project manager : industrial designer : yeah , well fifty cent uh user interface : industrial designer : uh , why does n't and then we have single-curved versus double-curved . user interface : well maybe i have something in my presentation to uh to cope with that . industrial designer : that okay . no , we 'll we 'll just wait and uh uh , plastic versus rubber . any ideas ? marketing : rubber . project manager : rubber . yeah . industrial designer : uh , rubber ? user interface : um , is n't possible to make combination with kind of rubber is or bendable remotes where you 've got a . industrial designer : you user interface : or do you think it industrial designer : uh , i figured it will be m rather than hard user interface : rubber casing , yeah . industrial designer : nah , rubber c uh this is a casing , yeah . rubber casing , marketing : rather hard . industrial designer : because well if you use an uh d a touch-screen , uh it 's just a casing uh around it . so um , you could go for plastic , but i figured user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : um , well d maybe i can ask it right now the question that i have . industrial designer : i i i would choose rubber . user interface : uh , is it possible uh of is it necessary to make a touch-screen square ? it is n't , i think , yeah ? industrial designer : well , m i do n't know . no . marketing : well , i think that touch-screens are generally square . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but it 's the case you put around it that makes the shape . user interface : we 're we put fashion in electronics , industrial designer : that is n't user interface : so maybe we can uh marketing : hmm ? yeah okay , but if you have a square uh lcd screen , and you put a case around it that has uh like bulbs or that that covers part of the lcd screen . user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , that would cover it . marketing : that industrial designer : that that would solve the problem . user interface : oh , yeah . okay , i i get it . marketing : that 's it 's custom customisable and project manager : mm yeah . industrial designer : so mm uh uh so uh so what are the opinions ? uh rubber or plastic ? i i i prefer rubber . marketing : yeah , me too . project manager : me too . user interface : okay . project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : yeah , you too ? user interface : that 's good . industrial designer : you sure ? you you you seemed to hesitate a bit . user interface : well , as long a as long as it 's it 's uh it 's firm , and you do n't uh it 's not bendable or something , project manager : marketing : mm yeah . user interface : i th i think that goes too far . industrial designer : yeah , it it should n't it should n't flop over when you hold it in your hand uh project manager : okay . user interface : oh . industrial designer : no , that that that that 's gon na the the chip set will hold it firm in place , marketing : user interface : okay . industrial designer : and uh and and uh and a lcd screen also user interface : it might even bounce back when you drop it on the floor . industrial designer : yeah it m might it might . project manager : user interface : okay . marketing : industrial designer : uh , tra uh traditional versus lcd , well i figured we we all set on that . marketing : industrial designer : and uh , then also the simple versus advanced . well i figure if we go for l_ lcd , we we should have the advanced . project manager : mm yeah . industrial designer : so that should n't be a problem . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay , well that 's my uh project manager : thank you . industrial designer : uh , you 're welcome . marketing : can i uh do my thing ? project manager : yeah . do your thing , tim . marketing : it uh user interface : do your thing . industrial designer : project manager : bring it on . marketing : expert map . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay uh last week project manager : marketing : i went to uh paris and milan for some trend-watching . industrial designer : marketing : for marketing . our research and development department and i went to paris and milan . in paris and milan , we uh asked different people , uh differing in age and in income , uh the amount of money to spend , um what they like in design uh and material nowadays . findings . our main audience , uh so that 's people below forty , uh prefer the following . at first , the colours of fruit . project manager : marketing : very basic colours , like janus explained . um , fresh colours , uh green , red , uh strawberry red , uh yellow , banana yellow . project manager : marketing : um , considering material , um yeah . they like spongy material , industrial designer : user interface : spongeball . marketing : like yeah a sponge-ball . user interface : marketing : like a s soft material . project manager : yeah . marketing : janus m uh mentioned it also . i think he did some uh some findings himself . industrial designer : well , the teletubbies sh project manager : marketing : you wer you were n't in paris ? okay . like this . like big uh g flashy colours . fresh . project manager : flashy . yeah . marketing : it 's nice , i think . okay , our secondary audience , uh people above forty a forty years in age , they like the dark traditional colours . uh yeah , uh materials like wood that project manager : yeah , but wood is not a not a material you which you build a a remote control of . industrial designer : well , you could . you you could . marketing : no n j just j just a w project manager : yeah but never seen one . user interface : it 'll float . marketing : no , okay , but just just a wooden uh look . project manager : case . oh , a wooden look , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like uh you have those fake uh fake panels on the floor . user interface : tables . project manager : okay . industrial designer : marketing : the that is n't wood anyway , but okay ? but , that 's our secondary audience . project manager : yeah . marketing : so , uh we decided to take mm yeah the people below forty . project manager : yeah . marketing : so , that this does n't apply . 'kay , the third . uh , there 're some overall thoughts about new remote controls . they have to look fancy . um , they should be technological in innovative . that means uh there have to be fancy things in . uh , and easy to use . but that 's common . my personal preferences . we have to aim at a mu at the main audience . and uh , therefore use fresh colours . project manager : would you prefer uh uh that you can choose the colour of your uh remote control or marketing : uh , i 'll i 'll come to that in a second point . project manager : okay . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : here , think about removable covers , as seen in mobile telephon telephone market . to customise your own remote control . project manager : okay . industrial designer : marketing : like the nokia uh the removable covers , uh just put a red on it and go to the shop and buy a green one . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : uh , a third , material being used uh could well be stuff like rubber . um , two advantages . uh , it fits within the current market trends . and uh it adds safety to your remote uh when you drop it . so uh to come back to your question , i think uh and the people in milan and paris also think that uh the rubber should be pretty hard . like uh seen on regular mobile phones . actually , they have a lot in common . the phones and the project manager : industrial designer : well , i actually saw a phone that you could use as a remote , so yeah . marketing : yeah . yeah . okay . project manager : maybe you could use your remote as a phone . user interface : hey . project manager : there are numbers on it , so uh industrial designer : that might be a next step . marketing : yeah , exactly . project manager : marketing : uh , in my second sheet of personal preferences , uh we have to reconsider the speech function uh recognition . user interface : marketing : uh , it 's very innovative . innovative . project manager : so that you say um s_p_s_s_ , and it goes to uh marketing : yeah , like something . project manager : okay . marketing : you you can see that the market is just screaming for new technologies , like speak uh speech recognition and stuff . but , we have to keep the cost in uh in mind , but it user interface : twelve fifty uh marketing : yeah , it it can be uh very expensive . project manager : marketing : 'kay , second . project manager : marketing : uh , building games like snake or tetris to amuse the younger users . industrial designer : marketing : uh , also the link with uh mobile phones . uh project manager : yeah , but you do n't use that th games when you watching television , i think . industrial designer : well , yeah . marketing : no , but no , okay . but you do n't use games when you 're d when you 're making a telephone call . it 's just the same . user interface : when your parents are watching some boring program , you can take the remote and do something else . project manager : marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . marketing : when you 're at college . project manager : you take your remote control with you . user interface : take it . industrial designer : you take your uh remote with you to school . marketing : uh no . you al you also take uh t industrial designer : yeah . marketing : you take your ipac and go uh play games . yeah . yeah . well , i do that , but okay , and um project manager : industrial designer : marketing : and third , i stick with it , the log-in functionality uh with the slogan , take parental control to a new dimension . user interface : ooh . s industrial designer : very nice . marketing : that 's it . project manager : uh great . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : marketing : project manager : user interface : in okay . um the interface contents . well that 's a just simple powerpoint mock-up i want to m make it more as dynamic for you so i 'll draw there . but , the main concept is um take one big touch screen . um , always display the primary buttons clear and visible . maybe even li like this with uh u uses of a lot of space . and uh make the menu structure changeable . so if you press um system , that 's marketing : user interface : yeah , well m multiple system options can , maybe five or ten or or one , can fit in . or maybe even a step further when you want to um t um have some other options that are not programmable with one horizontal button . and um other buttons can may be displayed here if that 's necessary . and um well , how do uh do we want to look at uh uh f um yeah does a remote look well , it 's you 've got ta hold it in one hand . so um the middle like all remotes have to be in a little bit small , so you can put it in inside your hands . and some remotes you can use with your thumb . but i think that 's too difficult for this one . so you can make it s a little broader . yeah . and here ? and maybe use your thumb on the on the main buttons . and use your other hands on the menu structure . so here are gon na be the program buttons . one , two , three , four , et cetera . and the the volume control and program control maybe . and , down here , um , i added , this could be one uh big lcd . um , the menu structure . so you can use it in uh in this way . um one thing you 've got ta keep in mind , keep the remote clear of too much functions at the same time . project manager : user interface : um , know that if you are changing the menu structure here , um and well , i still believe you should keep displaying the buttons . but if you 're programming the colour of the tv , do not display twenty other options that are possible . just keep it as simple as uh as possible . and do not use too many levels . do not have to select a screen first and then brightness and then colour and un-plus , and um push plus twenty times . project manager : user interface : but just the um uh just in one button if possible . and um , well , you kn you all know the tv levels . um , channel one , two . and when you get to n to uh to ten , ye and want to go back , uh well you have a problem . just m most most modern tvs , you you press one zero , and it goes to ten . and else , to one and through after that . so the s a button less . and um , things like teletext , put them in the menu . things like um um yeah . marketing : yeah . uh , what do you think about a back-and-forth come-up uh button ? project manager : user interface : yeah , yeah w yeah , i i find i must trying to uh tell it . marketing : l like in uh internet explorer . user interface : is uh volume plus and minus ? and this is program uh plus and minus . uh marketing : yeah okay , but does it that is for uh going from four to five . but if you go from two to eight , and you want user interface : or if you 're watching studio sports on uh on seventeen , and your wife is watching some soap on two marketing : yeah , and on two . that you can switch switch easy . user interface : well yes , i think that 's a good idea . but um , well m my preference would to be put it in the menu structure . marketing : yeah it is . yeah . user interface : and if you 're using that button a lot of times , well of course the menu will still be displayed on the screen . you just do n't have to play games uh in-between . but if you 're really switching between two channels , you wo n't have time uh to d use the other options . marketing : mm no . user interface : um , yeah already already told that . marketing : that 's it . user interface : yeah . that 's my conclusion . project manager : oh , okay . </s>
<s> what 's the advantage of technology innovation when marketing presenting the trend-watching ? </s> marketing : uh , in my second sheet of personal preferences , uh we have to reconsider the speech function uh recognition . user interface : marketing : uh , it 's very innovative . innovative . project manager : so that you say um s_p_s_s_ , and it goes to uh marketing : yeah , like something . project manager : okay . marketing : you you can see that the market is just screaming for new technologies , like speak uh speech recognition and stuff . but , we have to keep the cost in uh in mind , but it user interface : twelve fifty uh marketing : yeah , it it can be uh very expensive . project manager : marketing : 'kay , second . project manager : marketing : uh , building games like snake or tetris to amuse the younger users . industrial designer : marketing : uh , also the link with uh mobile phones . uh project manager : yeah , but you do n't use that th games when you watching television , i think . industrial designer : well , yeah . marketing : no , but no , okay . but you do n't use games when you 're d when you 're making a telephone call . it 's just the same . user interface : when your parents are watching some boring program , you can take the remote and do something else . project manager : marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . marketing : when you 're at college . project manager : you take your remote control with you . user interface : take it . industrial designer : you take your uh remote with you to school . marketing : uh no . you al you also take uh t industrial designer : yeah . marketing : you take your ipac and go uh play games . yeah . yeah . well , i do that , but okay , and um project manager : </s>
<s> what 's the conclusion of the discussion about battery versus kinetic when presenting on components ? </s> industrial designer : that should n't should n't be uh that big a issue . i 'll i 'll i 'll just add , uh uh i put a big summary here , so we could discuss it a bit . uh what i what are your ideas concerning battery versus kinetic ? marketing : user interface : um , i think you should use kinetic as a back-up . industrial designer : yeah , you you you should we should marketing : yeah , a combination . user interface : a combination , yeah . industrial designer : a combination . uh , you use the battery and w charge it up with kinetic . when you pick it up , it charges up . marketing : yeah . like an uh aku uh industrial designer : yeah . marketing : acu uh , yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah , i know . user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : just like the watch from seiko . marketing : well , . yeah . user interface : psycho-kinetic . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i con exactly . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : what uh what do you think ? project manager : i i uh i would prefer uh both uh too . industrial designer : you agree ? project manager : yeah . combine them . industrial designer : yeah ? both ? marketing : combine them . industrial designer : okay . uh , well that would bring the m m some more costs , but i mean the marketing : okay . industrial designer : who cares , right . project manager : industrial designer : that 's the project manager 's problem . user interface : buy a fifty cents battery and uh marketing : of course . fifty cent . project manager : </s>
<s> summarize the decision discussion about parental control , the games , and voice recognition . </s> project manager : uh i think we can discuss a little about the the three uh kind of revolutionary things uh tim uh came with . the parental control , the games , and the voice recognition . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : uh industrial designer : project manager : there 's n not uh too much decision on uh that one so uh i think that parental control is a good function to uh to put in the remote . i do n't know how you think about it . marketing : yeah . user interface : well , i agree , just put it in the menu structure somewhere . project manager : yeah . user interface : um , yeah um system properties , um parental control . marketing : yeah but what i see uh how i see it is you put it on the the remote and then you have like a windows log-on screen with parents , children . user interface : yeah . mm . project manager : yeah . marketing : something like that . user interface : um , w well , yeah . marketing : and w when you want to use the parents uh option , you have to user interface : it it has to be fast . you do n't want to to go down and watch the news at eight o'clock and turn it on and wait twenty seconds for for uh the log-on screen and then remember your code and all kinds of settings . marketing : yeah , ok project manager : no but i think most people uh find it uh much more important that their children do n't watch uh sex or violence uh on the television , and uh wait uh ten or fifteen seconds longer , so they can uh finally watch it uh because of that . user interface : mm-hmm . why mm-hmm . you c may use like when there 's uh x_p_ , uh a simple log-on , d you just push uh one or two or three . project manager : uh marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . pu push parents . user interface : and if you push parents , then marketing : that then then then you have to uh go to three-digit uh log-in . user interface : yeah . to log in . yeah . and if you puts a ye marketing : like two one three . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : and it 's in . user interface : and if you w you push p children , uh you do n't have to uh log in , but you can only watch uh children 's channels or uh marketing : it automatically goes yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : okay . well industrial designer : i do n't know if it 's worth uh the time and effort we are going to spend on it . because well it 's a simple function , but it 's gon na take a lot of resources and a lot of time um to programming it . because you 'll have to start working with the profiles and such . and i 'm not sure if it 's actually worth uh investing that much time and effort into it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well i think that 's a b there 's a big market for it , industrial designer : i do n't know what project manager : because uh you yeah , you read many times in magazines same kind of stuff , and you heard on the news that uh that he yeah , they believe that children uh are influenced by the television , industrial designer : marketing : mm yeah . v violent tv . project manager : and uh well , we 're we 're aiming uh to uh below uh forty uh years . but there are a lot of uh people will below forty who have uh children in young age uh who who want um to uh not watch uh violent or uh user interface : yeah . well , maybe um some idea on that . project manager : yeah . user interface : just make through a remote as it is , but make an option to insert profiles , project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause if my grandad would buy this remote , he would n't want to bother with all all the all the uh things to do . marketing : yeah , of course . project manager : yeah . user interface : just make it an option in menu , ins install powerful profiles or something . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's a that 's a better idea ? marketing : yeah , w it just has to be w when it 's deliver out of the store , it has to be just simple and plain . project manager : yeah . yeah , okay . marketing : but if you want to install it personally uh if i got kids , and i could choose between uh two remote controls . one uh w with parent control and one without , and i would would buy the one with . project manager : yeah , with and one without . yeah . user interface : um , b well , still some question i have about how to incorporate those ones . marketing : i th yeah . user interface : you 're thinking about some channels they uh can not see , but well , i i when i think , oh yeah , for the f for all the standard channels , and only for maybe after ten o'clock uh in the evening violent films and movies uh will come industrial designer : marketing : user interface : and uh maybe maybe some some timing uh will be uh needed instead of uh of channels , marketing : yeah . user interface : because if you 're watching uh , i do n't know , you 're in the at day uh , cartoons will come up m on maybe friday night . i do n't know . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : yeah , maybe it can work with show view . uh , you you can control your video recorder with show view . user interface : project manager : uh , when you tick in a number , it will uh start and end uh recording . but maybe there 's some option that uh that t uh the kind of show view numbers are violent , and that they are blocked out . user interface : yeah , the disadvantage vantage is that someone will has to send all the show-view numbers of the programs that they remotes and edit it all , project manager : yeah . that 's true . yeah . user interface : will have to decide uh marketing : yeah but yeah but that is n't possible . user interface : that is n't possible . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but , well , if you want to i i i if we in incorporate uh the parental control , uh let 's say we do , and and well whatever , cho uh child just goes up to the tv and presses up for instance . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well uh , nob nobody 's stopping the child from uh well checking uh the channel . user interface : well , yeah you could say if parental control is only it it 'll go from fourteen to sixteen with the page-up then , but industrial designer : but that well , i 'm not sure because um for that to happen , you d you will have to receive a signal from the uh remote control , so it would , yeah , have to be constant uh constant signalling . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : what m what may be better is to incorporate an uh a separate device that uh that you can program with the remote control . and that uh provides parental control , for instance . and that 's just an optional uh device . so there 's n that 's there 's uh besides uh the remote control , you 'll have a separate uh project manager : i would n't put it in an optional device . that that then then then it becomes too much , i think . industrial designer : yeah ? project manager : if we do it , we we must do it in a kind of ways that like a profile , a parent profile , and a family profile , and otherwise . marketing : yeah , and user interface : yeah , on a separate menu uh option . marketing : and and you know w uh when you install another device , uh children can still go up to the tv , p pop open uh the thing and and and g project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's true . that 's true , marketing : go to a channel . industrial designer : but uh at same instant , same happens when uh you have remote control . so marketing : yeah , yeah of course . but industrial designer : but , only difference is uh the uh the people buying the remote control will now get the f added feature of parental control , project manager : industrial designer : and those people would n't uh necessary want it . marketing : yeah . ah it 's industrial designer : so , you you 'd be marketing : yeah . yeah , okay . but it 's just an an added feature feature . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . and what do you uh guys think of the games in the voice recognition ? i personally think that that becomes too much . user interface : yeah , well yeah , i project manager : it 's more like it gets you to the functionality , but user interface : a mail too from management that it 's very popular to use voice recon recognition . project manager : yeah . user interface : but i do n't think when you 're watching tv uh , hearing loud noises from the tv , someone screaming one , and you f the channel switches , uh yeah . marketing : mm yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , like f voice recognition is too much , i think . but project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : and games ? marketing : games . it does n't industrial designer : yeah . i can see games happening . yeah . user interface : w you can put it on chip anyway , so uh marketing : yeah . project manager : that would user interface : as long as it 's is n't a primary feature of the remote , marketing : that that does n't c that does n't co user interface : but uh marketing : yeah , that that does n't cost a lot of extra resources , i think . project manager : okay . so that will uh that that that must be in it , you think ? industrial designer : yeah , that will be nice . project manager : okay . so the games uh are in it . the voice recognition are not . and the parental control are user interface : optional in project manager : optional ? marketing : yeah , it 's it 's in it . but too ma i i think so , but user interface : but how we do it ? project manager : yeah . user interface : well , i think also it 's a good idea , buts very difficult to incorporate . so we should make it too complex . project manager : okay . user interface : is t some menu uh function , you choose parental control , and maybe four files will emerge from menu where put it on . marketing : yeah . user interface : but uh how how it 's gon na work uh uh will f be a problem . project manager : yeah , okay . uh , but uh will there uh uh like the first idea uh from uh you can buy it without and uh with parental contr control ? or are we going to put it in and uh just uh user interface : mm-hmm . well ye i i think best would be uh to put it in and make it an menu option . marketing : to put user interface : you can put on marketing : yeah , to put it in always . project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah . and you can just uh s when you buy it , you can select um personal preference , parental control on , and the password or something . project manager : mm yeah . industrial designer : well , i do n't know . i i figure if you had two different remotes , you could bo choose one with uh well uh uh a receiver in it . so you could actually easily uh build in uh parental control . but it would would be uh more expensive . so , a and that that way uh you could make cheap model and a expensive model . could ma make the uh simple model and the deluxe model , uh for instance . user interface : oh , it 's a p yeah . marketing : yeah , but tvs are n't capable of sending . industrial designer : yes they are . yeah . marketing : yeah ? i thought they were just project manager : yeah , you yo industrial designer : yeah , you you have some tvs any marketing : a able to receive . yeah , some . but project manager : yeah , but most often not . industrial designer : yeah . that is true , that is true . user interface : well , maybe you just have to restrict it to what programs , where the parent says , you can not watch channel seven , nine , and ten , and you can not watch all channels after ten o'clock . marketing : yeah . user interface : and there 's just some little uh clock in the remote . industrial designer : well yeah , you could you could easily you could easily you could easily to the mote control . marketing : yeah , j just some rules . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but you still have the problem about uh the television itself . user interface : no , no , it 's very simple . there uh th i h i 've seen some of remotes who have a clock in it . industrial designer : yeah , yeah yeah . user interface : so , the remote does does n't transmit when it 's after twelve clock . marketing : yeah , okay . but , on the tv user interface : yeah ? marketing : at least my tv , is a is a compartment which you can press . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and there are buttons uh behind it which you can use , if you d if you do n't if you do n't have a industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . well , that 's to put it very blunt , that 's not our problem . just have um the parents buy uh some glue and uh it 's not not a part of the remote . marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah , of course . industrial designer : yeah , that is true . yeah , that is true . user interface : you have to f yeah . industrial designer : yeah , you could you could you could go like user interface : uh , or make it ourselves very diffic industrial designer : uh that that would actually make uh things a lot more easy . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you could just blame it on television and uh make it their problem . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i figured i figure we could do that . yeah , yeah , sure . project manager : user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh , i 'm not sure what marketing thinks about it , but marketing : or j yeah . user interface : marketing : ah project manager : marketing : i have to uh consult my legal advisor about it . project manager : okay . so uh i think we have decided on the things that uh from janus , the energy , the combination between battery and kinetic . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : the case will be double-curved and uh rubber , in a fr flashy fruity colour uh that with cover is removable . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : the buttons will be uh touch-screen . uh but there may not be too many buttons . and in the the menu structure , uh there must not to be uh five minutes to go . uh , too uh too many levels . and uh it must be easy to use . the parental control will be incorporated , but it must be not too complex . and the games are in it . so marketing : project manager : i think we have uh we have decided uh , okay . user interface : okay . marketing : consensus . project manager : uh , little more . marketing : oh . oh . i i have one thing left . project manager : yeah . marketing : maybe for uh jerome . user interface : yeah ? i 'm listening . marketing : um , the views . maybe it 's uh handy to build in an expert view and a simple view . project manager : like a like a moat or s or something . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : um , well industrial designer : user profile . marketing : like at in the experts view , you have a lot of more buttons . project manager : yeah , but you have that in the user interface : what i was thinking about is just a menu structure , when you do n't use it is simple . project manager : yeah . you use the user interface : and when you push uh system properties , uh entire list pops up with e ev all kind of f stuff you can program . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . it 's already incorporated a little in that concept . marketing : mm yeah , okay . fairly enough . yeah . industrial designer : well yeah , you you could actually build in a function that you can program it yourself , for the more advanced users . marketing : yeah , wh which buttons you like or not . industrial designer : yeah , which buttons do you want to in it . because you can you can like build in a back-forward button , and uh some po somebody would just want to watch two channels . marketing : yeah . yeah . just leave the other numbers away . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , you could you could m have people want uh want that . project manager : we take it to the other meeting , okay ? i have a little w uh little chat to do marketing : okay . go on . industrial designer : ah , yeah , sure . project manager : and uh then we uh finish . </s>
<s> why did project manager disagree with industrial designer when discussing parental control ? </s> project manager : there 's n not uh too much decision on uh that one so uh i think that parental control is a good function to uh to put in the remote . i do n't know how you think about it . marketing : yeah . user interface : well , i agree , just put it in the menu structure somewhere . project manager : yeah . user interface : um , yeah um system properties , um parental control . marketing : yeah but what i see uh how i see it is you put it on the the remote and then you have like a windows log-on screen with parents , children . user interface : yeah . mm . project manager : yeah . marketing : something like that . user interface : um , w well , yeah . marketing : and w when you want to use the parents uh option , you have to user interface : it it has to be fast . you do n't want to to go down and watch the news at eight o'clock and turn it on and wait twenty seconds for for uh the log-on screen and then remember your code and all kinds of settings . marketing : yeah , ok project manager : no but i think most people uh find it uh much more important that their children do n't watch uh sex or violence uh on the television , and uh wait uh ten or fifteen seconds longer , so they can uh finally watch it uh because of that . user interface : mm-hmm . why mm-hmm . you c may use like when there 's uh x_p_ , uh a simple log-on , d you just push uh one or two or three . project manager : uh marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . pu push parents . user interface : and if you push parents , then marketing : that then then then you have to uh go to three-digit uh log-in . user interface : yeah . to log in . yeah . and if you puts a ye marketing : like two one three . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : and it 's in . user interface : and if you w you push p children , uh you do n't have to uh log in , but you can only watch uh children 's channels or uh marketing : it automatically goes yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : okay . well industrial designer : i do n't know if it 's worth uh the time and effort we are going to spend on it . because well it 's a simple function , but it 's gon na take a lot of resources and a lot of time um to programming it . because you 'll have to start working with the profiles and such . and i 'm not sure if it 's actually worth uh investing that much time and effort into it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well i think that 's a b there 's a big market for it , industrial designer : i do n't know what project manager : because uh you yeah , you read many times in magazines same kind of stuff , and you heard on the news that uh that he yeah , they believe that children uh are influenced by the television , industrial designer : marketing : mm yeah . v violent tv . project manager : and uh well , we 're we 're aiming uh to uh below uh forty uh years . but there are a lot of uh people will below forty who have uh children in young age uh who who want um to uh not watch uh violent or uh user interface : yeah . well , maybe um some idea on that . project manager : yeah . user interface : just make through a remote as it is , but make an option to insert profiles , project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause if my grandad would buy this remote , he would n't want to bother with all all the all the uh things to do . marketing : yeah , of course . project manager : yeah . user interface : just make it an option in menu , ins install powerful profiles or something . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's a that 's a better idea ? marketing : yeah , w it just has to be w when it 's deliver out of the store , it has to be just simple and plain . </s>
<s> what did group mates discuss the expert view when discussing the system properties ? </s> marketing : um , the views . maybe it 's uh handy to build in an expert view and a simple view . project manager : like a like a moat or s or something . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : um , well industrial designer : user profile . marketing : like at in the experts view , you have a lot of more buttons . project manager : yeah , but you have that in the user interface : what i was thinking about is just a menu structure , when you do n't use it is simple . project manager : yeah . you use the user interface : and when you push uh system properties , uh entire list pops up with e ev all kind of f stuff you can program . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . it 's already incorporated a little in that concept . marketing : mm yeah , okay . fairly enough . yeah . industrial designer : well yeah , you you could actually build in a function that you can program it yourself , for the more advanced users . marketing : yeah , wh which buttons you like or not . industrial designer : yeah , which buttons do you want to in it . because you can you can like build in a back-forward button , and uh some po somebody would just want to watch two channels . marketing : yeah . yeah . just leave the other numbers away . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , you could you could m have people want uh want that . project manager : we take it to the other meeting , okay ? i have a little w uh little chat to do marketing : okay . go on . industrial designer : ah , yeah , sure . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> grad g : headphones that are n't so uncomfortable . phd b : i think well , this should be off the record , but i think professor d : uh , ok . professor a : we 're not recording yet , are we ? grad g : well , i do n't think phd f : no , uh , that that was n't recorded . grad g : no . um , i do n't think they 're designed to be over your ears . phd b : yeah , i know . it just it really hurts . it gives you a headache , like if you on your temple phd f : temple squeezers . phd b : yeah . yeah . professor d : mm - hmm . grad g : but i definitely have n't figured it out . professor a : um , meeting recorder meeting . phd f : i guess i have to d stop doing this sigh of contentment , you know , after sipping cappuccino or something . phd b : yeah , with the we kno i know . grad g : `` sip , sigh . `` phd b : we know exactly how much you have left in your cup . phd f : i was just noticing a big s professor d : so are we recording now ? is this phd e : yeah . professor d : oh ! we 're we 're we 're live . ok . phd e : yeah . professor d : so , uh , what were we gon na talk about again ? so we said we said data collection , which we 're doing . phd b : were we gon na do digits ? professor a : ok . do we do th do you go around the room and do names or anything ? grad g : i think that phd e : it 's a good idea . grad g : u usually we 've done that and also we 've s done digits as well , but i forgot to print any out . so . besides with this big a group , phd b : you can write them on the board , if you want . professor d : no . i it 'd be even better with this big grad g : it would take too much time . phd e : which way is grad g : yeah , but it takes too much time . phd e : mari ? postdoc h : what professor a : what ? professor d : it 's not that long . phd e : y i think your your your thing may be pointing in a funny direction . sort of it 's it helps if it points sort of upwards . professor a : whoops . phd e : sort of it you know . professor a : would it m phd e : yeah . so that thing the little th that part should be pointing upwards . professor a : so oh , this thing . phd e : that 's it . yeah . professor a : yeah . postdoc h : otherwise you just get a heartbeats . professor a : it 's kind of professor d : oh , yeah , the element , yeah , n should be as close to you your mouth as possible . professor a : yeah . ok . phd e : that 's good . that kind of thing is good . postdoc h : it 's a professor a : this w alright . phd e : yeah . professor a : how 's that working ? professor d : yeah . phd e : oh , yeah . it 's a it 's working . professor d : alright . so what we had was that we were gon na talk about data collection , and , um , uh , you you put up there data format , and other tasks during data collection , professor a : so , i think the goal the goal was what can we do how can you do the data collection differently to get professor d : and professor a : what can you add to it to get , um , some information that would be helpful for the user - interface design ? like grad g : uh , especially for querying . professor a : especially for querying . so , getting people to do queries afterwards , getting people to do summaries afterwards . um . postdoc h : well , one thing that came up in the morning in the morning was the , um , i uh , if he i , um if he has s i i do n't remember , mister lan - doctor landry ? grad g : landay . james . postdoc h : la - landay ? so he has , um , these , uh , um , tsk { comment } note - taking things , professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc h : then that would sort of be a summary which you would n't have to solicit . y if if we were able to to do that . professor a : well , if if you actually take notes as a summary as opposed to n take notes in the sense of taking advantage of the time - stamps . so action item or uh , reminder to send this to so - and - so , blah - blah - blah . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor a : so that would n't be a summary . that would just be that would b relate to the query side . grad g : but if we had the crosspads , we could ask people , you know , if if something comes up write it down and mark it somehow , postdoc h : mm - hmm . phd e : right . i mean , we because you 'd have several people with these pads , you could collect different things . grad g : you know . professor a : right . phd e : i mean , cuz i tend to take notes which are summaries . and so , you know phd f : i mean , the down - side to that is that he sort of indicated that the , uh , quality of the handwriting recognition was quite poor . professor a : well grad g : but that 's alright . i do n't think there 'd be so many that you could n't have someone clean it up professor a : so grad g : pretty easily . professor a : yeah . we also could come up with some code for things that people want to do so that for frequent things . phd f : yeah . professor a : and the other things , people can write whatever they want . i mean , it 's to some extent , uh , for his benefit . so , if that you know , if if we just keep it simple then maybe it 's still useful . phd f : right . grad g : yeah . professor d : i just realized we skipped the part that we were saying we were gon na do at the front where we each said who we were . postdoc h : the roll call . professor a : right . i thought you did that on purpose . professor d : roll call . professor a : but anyway , shall we do the roll call ? professor d : no , not a no , i just my mind went elsewhere . so , uh , yeah , i 'm morgan , and where am i ? i 'm on channel three . grad g : and i 'm adam janin on channel a . postdoc h : i 'm jane edwards , i think on channel b . phd e : i 'm dan ellis . phd f : eric on channel nine . phd b : liz , on channel one . professor a : mari on channel zero . professor c : katrin on channel two . postdoc h : should we have used pseudo - names ? should we do it a second time with pseudo no . no . professor d : i 'm rocky raccoon on channel phd e : let me , uh , turn that off . grad g : and , uh , do you want to do the p d as and the p z phd e : oh . pzm nearest , nearest , next nearest . next one . postdoc h : next nearest . phd e : furthest . pdm - right , pza - right pda - right , pda - left . thanks . grad g : yeah , and eventually once this room gets a little more organized , the jimlets { comment } will be mounted under the table , and these guys will be permanently mounted somehow . you know , probably with double - sided tape , but so . you so we wo n't have to go through that . postdoc h : i have a question on protocol in these meetings , which is when you say `` jimlet `` and the person listening wo n't know what that is , sh shou how how do we get is that important information ? you know , the jimlet i mean , the box that contains the professor d : well , i mean , suppose we broaden out and go to a range of meetings besides just these internal ones . there 's gon na be lots of things that any group of people who know each other have in column common { comment } that we will not know . professor a : right . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor a : right . so the there will be jargon that we he there 'll be transcription errors . postdoc h : good . professor d : yeah . i mean , we we were originally gon na do this with vlsi design , and and and the reason we did n't go straight to that was because immediately ninety percent of what we heard would be jargon to to us . so . grad g : well , that was just one of the reasons . but , yeah , definitely . professor d : yeah . postdoc h : ok . good . professor d : that that 's right . there were others of course . yeah . postdoc h : ok , so we were on the data collection { comment } and the summary issue . professor d : right . we can go back . professor a : so , uh , u u so , actually there 's kind of three issues . there 's the crosspad issue . should we do it and , if so , what 'll we have them do ? um , do we have s people write summaries ? everybody or one person ? and then , do we ask people for how they would query things ? is that phd f : there 's there 're sub - problems in that , in that where or when do you actually ask them about that ? professor a : right . phd f : i mean , that was one thing i was thinking about was is that dan said earlier that , you know , maybe two weeks later , which is when you would want to query these things , you might ask them then . professor a : right . phd f : but there 's a problem with that in that if you 're not if you do n't have an interactive system , it 's gon na be hard to go beyond sort of the first level of question . professor a : right . phd f : right . and furth id explore the data further . professor a : right . professor d : there 's there 's another problem grad g : and professor d : which is , um , we certainly do want to branch out beyond , uh , uh , recording meetings about meeting recorder . and , uh , once we get out beyond our little group , the people 's motivation factor , uh , reduces enormously . and if we start giving them a bunch of other things to do , how you know , we we did n you know another meeting here for another group and and , uh , they were fine with it . but if we 'd said , `` ok , now all eight of you have to have to come up with , uh , the summar `` grad g : well , i asked them to and none of them did . professor d : t see ? there we go . grad g : so , i i asked them to send me ideas for queries after the meeting postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor a : they grad g : and no one ever did . phd e : mm - hmm . grad g : i did n't follow up either . professor a : yeah . grad g : so i did n't track them down and say `` please do th do it now `` . but , uh , no one spontaneously provided anything . professor d : i i 'm worried that if you did even if you did push them into it , it it it might be semi - random , professor a : right . professor d : uh , as opposed to what you 'd really want to know if you were gon na use this thing . phd e : right . grad g : i just do n't know how else to generate the queries other than getting an expert to actually listen to the meeting and say `` that 's important , that might be a query `` . postdoc h : tsk . well , there is this other thing which y which you were alluding to earlier , which is , um , there are certain key words like , you know , `` action item `` and things like that , which could be used in , uh , t to some degree finding the structure . professor a : yeah . phd e : although postdoc h : and and i also , um , was thinking , with reference to the n uh , note - taking , the advantage there is that you get structure without the person having to do something artificial later . and the fir third thing i wanted to say is the summaries afterwards , um , i think they should be recorded instead of written because i think that , um , it would take so long for people to write that i think you would n't get as good a summary . professor a : how about this idea ? that normally at most meetings somebody is delegated to be a note - taker . postdoc h : yeah , good . good point . professor a : and so why do n't we just use the notes that somebody takes ? postdoc h : yeah . grad g : i mean , that gives you a summary but it does n't really how do you generate queries from that ? phd e : well . but , i mean , maybe a summary is one of the things we 'd want from the output of the system . postdoc h : yeah . professor a : right . phd e : right ? i mean , they 're something . it 's a a kind of output you 'd like . phd b : actually and so grad g : uh , james and i were talking about this during one of the breaks . and the problem with that is , i 'm definitely going to do something with information retrieval even if it 's sort of not full full - bore what i 'm gon na do for my thesis . professor a : right . grad g : i 'm gon na do something . i 'm not gon na do anything with summarization . and so if someone wants to do that , that 's fine , but it 's not gon na be me . professor d : well , i think that we i mean , the the f the core thing is that you know once we get some of these issues nailed down , we need to do a bunch of recordings professor a : well professor d : and send them off to ibm and get a bunch of transcriptions even if they 're slightly flawed or need some other and then we 'll have some data there . professor a : yeah . professor d : and then , i i we can start l looking and thinking , what do we want to know about these things and at the very least . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : yeah phd b : i actually want to say something about the note pad . so , if you could sense just when people are writing , and you tell them not to doodle , or try not to be using that for other purposes , { comment } and each person has a note pad . they just get it when they come in the room . then you c you can just have a fff { comment } plot of wh you know , who 's writing when . that 's all you phd e : activity . yeah . phd b : and , you can also have notes of the meeting . but i bet that 's that will allow you to go into the sort of the hot places where people are writing things down . professor d : mm - hmm . grad g : oh , i see . phd b : i mean , you can tell when you 're in a meeting when everybody stops to write something down that something was just said . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : it may not be kept in the later summary , but at that point in time is was something that was important . postdoc h : mm - hmm . phd b : and that would n't take any extra postdoc h : that 's a nice idea . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : or someone could just pu you could just put your hand on the pad professor d : it professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : and go like that if you want to . it 's professor d : that 's a good idea but that does n't maybe i 'm missing something , but that does n't get to the question of how we come up with queries , right ? professor a : well , what it does phd b : well , then you can go to the points where the you could actually go to those points in time and find out what they were talking about . and you r professor a : well , what it does is provide a different professor d : yeah . phd b : and grad g : uh , y professor a : i i think it 's an interesting thing . i do n't think it gets at the the queries per - se , but it does give us an information fusion sort of thing that , you know , you wan na i say `` what were the hot - points of the meeting ? `` phd b : yeah . professor d : that that 's what i mean , is that i think it gets at something interesting but if we were asking the question , which i thought we were , of of of , um , `` how do we figure out what 's the nature of the queries that people are gon na want to ask of such a system ? `` , knowing what 's important does n't tell you what people are going to be asking . phd b : but i bet it 's a good superset of it . professor d : does it ? professor a : well , yeah . phd e : well , see , there are th professor a : i think you could say they 're gon na ask about , uh , when uh , when did so - and - so s talk about blah . and at least that gives you the word that they might run a query on . phd b : at least you can find the locations where there are maybe keywords professor d : maybe . grad g : i mean , i this would tell you what the hit is , phd b : and grad g : not what the query is . professor a : right . phd b : right , right . grad g : what professor a : it 'll tell you the hit but not the query . phd b : but i think i think thinking about queries is a little bit dangerous right now . grad g : and so you could you can generate a query from the hits , professor a : right . grad g : but phd b : we do n't even know what i mean , if you want to find out what any user will use , that might be true for one domain and one user , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : but i mean a different domain and a different user postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor d : yeah , but we 're just looking for a place to start with that because , you know , th what what what james is gon na be doing is looking at the user - interface and he 's looking at the query in in i we we have five hours of pilot data of the other stuff but we have zero hours of of of queries . so he 's just sort of going `` where where do i where do i start ? `` professor a : w well , th you could do i think the summaries actually may help get us there , for a couple reasons . one , if you have a summary if you have a bunch of summaries , you can do a word frequency count and see what words come up in different types of meetings . professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : so `` action item `` is gon na come up whether it 's a vlsi meeting , or speech meeting , or whatever . so words that come up in different types of meetings may be something that you would want to query about . grad g : mm - hmm . professor a : um , the second thing you could possibly do with it is just run a little pilot experiment with somebody saying `` here 's a summary of a meeting , what questions might you want to ask about it to go back ? `` grad g : yeah , i think that 's difficult because then they 're not gon na ask the questions that are in the summary . professor a : well grad g : but , i think it would give professor a : that 's one possi one possible scenario , though , is you have the summary , grad g : mm - hmm . professor a : and you want to ask questions to get more detail . grad g : th yeah , i think it has to be a participant . well , it does n't have to be . ok . so that that is another use of meeting recorder that we have n't really talked about , which is for someone else , as opposed to as a remembrance agent , which is what had been my primary thought in the information retrieval part of it would be . but , uh , i guess if you had a meeting participant , they could use the summary to refresh themselves about the meeting and then make up queries . but it 's not professor d : mm - hmm . grad g : i do n't know how to do it if until you have a system . phd b : the summary is actually gon na drive the queries then . phd e : yeah . phd b : i mean , your research is going to be very circular . professor a : yeah . grad g : yeah , that that 's what i was saying . phd e : but th there is this , um there is this class of queries , which are the things that you did n't realize were important at the time but some in retrospect you think `` oh , hang on , did n't we talk about that ? `` and it 's something that did n't appear in the summary but you professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : and that 's kind of what this kind of , uh , complete data capture is kind of nicest for . professor a : right . right . phd b : right . phd e : cuz it 's the things that you would n't have bothered to make an effort to record but they get recorded . so , i mean and th there 's no way of generating those , u u until we just until they actually occur . phd b : but you could always post - hoc label them . phd e : you know , it 's like right , right . exactly . phd b : yeah . yeah . phd e : but i mean , it 's difficult to sort of say `` and if i was gon na ask four questions about this , what would they be ? `` those are n't the kind of things that come up . grad g : but at least it would get us started . phd e : oh , yeah . yeah , sure . postdoc h : i also think that w if if you can use the summaries as an indication of the important points of the of the meeting , then you might get something like y so if th if the obscure item you want to know more about was some form of data collection , you know , maybe the summary would say , you know , `` we discussed types of na data collection `` . and , you know and and maybe you could get to it by that . if you if you had the the larger structure of the of the discourse , then if you can categorize what it is that you 're looking for with reference to those l those larger headings , then you can find it even if you do n't have a direct route to that . grad g : mmm . although it seems like that 's , um , a high burden on the note - taker . postdoc h : i think that grad g : that 's a pretty fine grain that the note - taker will have to take . phd b : maybe landay can put a student in to be a note - taker . professor a : i th no . i think you got to have somebody who knows the pro knows the topic or you know , whose job it is delegated to be the note - taker . professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : somebody who 's part of the meeting . phd b : no , i mean , but someone who can come sit in on the meetings and then takes the notes with them that the real note - taker grad g : but they phd b : and that way that one student has , you know , a rough idea of what was going on , and they can use it for their research . i mean , this is n't really necessarily what you would do in a real system , grad g : mm - hmm . phd b : because that that 's a lot of trouble professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : and maybe it 's not the best way to do it . but if he has some students that want to study that then they should sort of get to know the people and attend those meetings , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : and get the notes from the note - taker or something . grad g : right . well , i think that 's a little bit of a problem . their sort of note - taking application stuff they 've been doing for the last couple of years , and i do n't think anyone is still working on it . professor d : yeah . grad g : i think they 're done . um , so i 'm not sure that they have anyone currently working on notes . so what we 'd have to interest someone in is the combination of note and speech . phd b : mm - hmm . grad g : and so the question is `` is there such a person ? `` and i think right now , the answer is `` no `` . professor d : i 've b been thinking grad g : we 'll just have to see . professor d : i 've been thinking about it a little bit here about the uh , th this , e um i think that the now i 'm thinking that the summary a summary , uh , is actually a reasonable , uh , bootstrap into this into what we 'd like to get at . it 's it 's not ideal , but we you know , we we have to get started someplace . so i was i was just thinking about , um , suppose we wanted to get w we have this collection of meeting . we have five hours of stuff . uh , we get that transcribed . so now we have five hours of meetings and , uh , you ask me , uh , uh , `` morgan , what d you know , what kind of questions do you want to ask ? `` uh , i would n't have any idea what kind of questions i want to ask . i 'd have to get started someplace . so in fact if i looked at summary of it , i 'd go `` oh , yeah , i was in that meeting , i remember that , um , what was the part that `` and and th i think that might then help me to think of things even things that are n't listed in the summary , but just as a as a as a refresh of what the general thing was going on in the meeting . grad g : mm - hmm . professor a : i think it serves two purpo purposes . one , as sort of a refresh to help bootstrap queries , professor d : mm - hmm . yeah . professor a : but also , i mean , maybe we do want to generate summaries . and then it 's you know , it 's kind of a key . professor d : well , yeah . that 's true too . grad g : yeah , absolutely . then you want to have it . professor a : uh phd b : so how does the summary get generated ? professor a : well , i i ? phd b : i 'm not against the idea of a summary , grad g : by hand . phd b : but i wanted to think carefully about who 's generating it professor a : or , d o phd b : and how because the summary will drive the queries . professor a : what i i think , you know , in most meetings , phd b : so professor a : this one being different , but in most meetings that i attend , there 's somebody t explicitly taking notes , frequently on a laptop um , you can just make it be on a laptop , phd b : mm - hmm . professor a : so then yo you 're dealing with ascii and not somebody you do n't have to go through handwriting recognition . um , and then they post - edit it into , uh , a summary and they email it out for minutes . i mean , that happens in most meetings . postdoc h : i i i think that , um , there 's we 're using `` summary `` in two different ways . so what you just described i would describe as `` minutes `` . grad g : minutes . professor a : right . phd b : yeah . phd e : yeah . postdoc h : and what i originally thought was , um , if you asked someone `` what was the meeting about ? `` and then they would say `` well , we talked about this and then we talked about that , and so - and - so talked about `` and then you 'd have , like i e my thought was to have multiple people summarize it , on recording rather than writing because writing takes time and you get irrelevant other things that u take time , that professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc h : whereas if you just say it immediately after the meeting , you know , a two - minute summary of what the meeting was about , i think you would get , uh , with mult see , i i also worry about having a single note - taker because that 's just one person 's perception . and , um , you know , it it 's releva it 's relative to what you 're focus was on that meeting , professor d : mm - hmm . postdoc h : and and people have different { comment } major topics that they 're interested in . so , my proposal would be that it may be worth considering both of those types , you know , the note - taking and a spontaneous oral summary afterwards , phd e : yeah . postdoc h : no longer than two minutes , professor d : adam , you can postdoc h : from multiple people . professor d : you can correct me on this , postdoc h : yeah . professor d : but but , uh , my impression was that , uh , pretty much , uh , true that the meetings here , nobody sits with a w uh , with a laptop grad g : never . professor d : and grad g : never . i 've never seen it at icsi . does anyone ? i mean , dan is the one who who most frequently would take notes , phd e : yeah . grad g : and phd e : i 've d when we when we have other meetings . when i have meetings on the european projects , we have someone taking notes . grad g : oh , really ? professor d : yeah , but those are bigger deal things . phd e : in fact , i often do it . professor d : right ? where you 've got fifteen peo phd e : yeah . professor d : i mean , most th this is one of the larger meetings . most of the meetings we have are four or five people grad g : that 's true are four or five people . professor a : yeah . professor d : and you 're not you do n't have somebody sitting and taking minutes for it . professor a : right . professor d : you just get together and talk about where you are . professor a : so , i think it depends on whether it 's a business meeting or a technical discussion . grad g : culture . professor d : yeah . professor a : and i agree , professor d : yeah . professor a : technical discussions you do n't usually have somebody taking notes . professor d : yeah . yeah . grad g : the iram meeting , they they take notes every professor d : do they ? grad g : there 's uh a person with a laptop at each meeting . phd e : how many people are those meetings ? grad g : there are more . i mean , there are ten - ish . phd e : yeah . phd b : y you should also have a record of what 's on the board . professor d : yeah . grad g : they 're very sparse . phd b : i mean , i find it very hard to reconstruct what 's going on . i i do n't know how grad g : yeah . this is something early in the project we talked a lot about . phd b : i do n't know how , but for instance , i mean , the outline is sort of up here and that 's what people are seeing . and if you have a or you shou could tell people not to to use the boards . but there 's sort of this missing information otherwise . phd e : we sh we should grad g : i agree , but but you you just you g end up with video , postdoc h : i agree . phd e : well , i do n't know . grad g : and and instrumented rooms . and that 's a different project , i think . phd e : f u i think for this data capture , it would be nice to have a digital camera grad g : yeah , different phd b : uh , y phd e : just to take pictures of who 's there , where the microphones are , and then we could also put in what 's on the board . you know , like three or four snaps for every phd b : right . postdoc h : i agree . phd b : yeah . people who were never at the meeting will have a very hard time understanding it otherwise . phd e : for every meeting . postdoc h : that 's wonderful . professor c : mm - hmm . grad g : but do n't you think that 's do n't you think that but postdoc h : i agree . professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : even people who were at the meeting . phd e : well , no . i mean , i i just think i mean , i think that right now we do n't make a record of where people are sitting on the tables . professor a : right . phd e : and that the at some point that might be awfully useful . grad g : right . but i think adding photographs adds a whole nother level of problems . postdoc h : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . we n uh , postdoc h : it 's just a digital record . phd e : not not as part of the not as a part of the data that you have to recover . phd b : i do n't mean that you model it . phd e : just just in terms of phd b : we should just like archiving it or storing it . phd e : yeah . postdoc h : yes , i agree . i agree . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc h : it 's i because discourse is about things , phd b : because someone postdoc h : and then you have the things that are about , and it 's recoverable . phd b : someone later might be able to take these and say `` ok , they , you know at least these are the people who were there phd e : so phd b : and here 's sort of what they started talking about , and `` and just postdoc h : yes . and it 's so simple . like you said , three snapshots professor d : uh , l l l postdoc h : and professor d : liz , you postdoc h : just to archive . professor d : u uh , liz , you sa you sat in on the , uh , subcommittee meeting or whatever phd e : actually professor d : uh , on you on the subcommittee meeting for for at the , uh that workshop we were at that , uh , uh , mark liberman was was having . so i i was n't there . they they they they h must have had some discussion about video and the visual aspect , and all that . phd b : big , big interest . huge . professor d : yeah . phd b : i mean , it personally , i do n't i would never want to deal with it . but i 'm just saying first of all there 's a whole bunch of fusion issues that darpa 's interested in . professor d : yeah . yeah . phd b : you know , fusing gesture and face recognition , professor d : yeah . phd b : even lip movement and things like that , for this kind of task . and there 's also i think a personal interest on the part of mark liberman in this kind of in storing these images in any data we collect professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : so that later we can do other things with it . professor d : yeah . so so to address what what adam 's saying , postdoc h : mmm . mm - hmm . phd b : and professor d : i mean , i think you uh , that the key thing there is that this is a description of database collection effort that they 're talking about doing . grad g : mm - hmm . professor d : and if the database exists and includes some visual information that does n't mean that an individual researcher is going to make any use of it . right ? postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor d : so , uh grad g : but that it 's gon na be a lot of effort on our part to create it , and store it , and get all the standards , and to do anything with it . professor d : right . so we 're gon na so we 're gon na do what we 're gon na do , whatever 's reasonable for us . grad g : yeah . phd b : i think even doing something very crude professor d : but having phd b : like i know with atis , we just had a tape recorder running all the time . grad g : mm - hmm . phd b : and later on it turned out it was really good that you had a tape recorder of what was happening , even though you w you just got the speech from the machine . so if you can find some really , you know , low , uh , perplexity , grad g : low fidelity . phd b : yeah , { comment } way of of doing that , i think it would be worthwhile . grad g : yeah . postdoc h : i agree . and if it 's simple as i mean , as simple as just the digital phd b : otherwise you 'd you lose it . professor d : well , minimally , i mean , what what dan is referring to at least having some representation of the p the spatial position of the people , postdoc h : yeah . professor d : cuz we are interested in some spatial processing . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor a : mm - hmm . professor d : and so grad g : right . professor d : so , um grad g : well , once the room is a little more fixed that 's a little easier professor d : yeah . grad g : cuz you 'll professor d : yeah . grad g : well , the wireless . professor d : yeah . grad g : but phd b : also cmu has been doing this and they were the most vocal at this meeting , alex waibel 's group . and they have said , i talked to the student who had done this , { comment } that with two fairly inexpensive cameras they they just recorded all the time professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : and were able to get all the information from or maybe it was three from all the parts of the room . so i think we would be we might lose the chance to use this data for somebody later who wants to do some kind of processing on it if we do n't collect it { comment } at all . grad g : yeah . i i i do n't disagree . i think that if you have that , then people who are interested in vision can use this database . the problem with it is you 'll have more people who do n't want to be filmed than who do n't want to be recorded . so that there 's going to be another group of people who are gon na say `` i wo n't participate `` . postdoc h : well , she 's not making professor c : that 's true . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : or you could put a paper bag over everybody 's head grad g : um phd b : and not look at each other and not look at boards , and just all be sitting talking . professor d : uh - huh . phd b : that would be an interes bu postdoc h : well professor d : great idea . postdoc h : well , there 's that 'd be the the parallel , yeah . but i think y she 's we 're just proposing a minimal preservation of things on boards , phd b : yeah . i definitely wo n't participate if there 's a camera . postdoc h : sp spatial organization and you could anonymize the faces for that matter . you know , i mean , this is grad g : but , you know , that 's a lot of infrastructure and work . postdoc h : we can talk about the grad g : to set it up and then anonymize it ? postdoc h : it 's just one snapshot . phd b : no , it wa n not , um professor a : no , no , no , no . postdoc h : we 're not talking about a movie . professor a : so phd b : not for not for cmu . postdoc h : we 're talking about a snapshot . grad g : mm - hmm . phd b : they have a pretty crude set - up . and they had grad g : mm - hmm . postdoc h : yeah . phd b : they just turn on these cameras . they were they were not moving or anything . grad g : could n't find it ? phd b : and stored it on analog media . and they they did n't actually align it or anything . they just they have it , though . postdoc h : yeah . well , it 's worth considering . maybe we do n't want to spend that much more time discussing it , phd f : did they store it digitally , or ? postdoc h : but phd b : hmm - mm . i think they just phd f : or just put it on videotape ? phd b : i think they just had the videotapes with a c you know , a counter or something . um , professor d : mm - hmm . well , i think for i mean , for our purposes we probably will d phd b : i 'm not sure . professor d : we we might try that some and and we certainly already have some recordings that do n't have that , uh , which , you know , we we 'll we 'll get other value out of , i think . postdoc h : yeah . phd b : yeah . postdoc h : th the thing is , if it 's easy to collect it it th then i think it 's a wise thing to do because once it 's gone it 's gone . and phd b : i 'm just the community if ldc collects this data u i mean , and l - if mark liberman is a strong proponent of how they collect it and what they collect , there will probably be some video data in there . professor d : there you go . phd b : and so that could argue for us not doing it or it could argue for us doing it . the only place where it sort of overlaps is when some of the summarization issues are actually could be , um , easier made easier if you had the video . professor d : i think at the moment we should be determining this on the basis of our own , uh , interests and needs rather than hypothetical ones from a community thing . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor d : as you say , if they if they decide it 's really critical then they will collect a lot more data than we can afford to , uh , and and will include all that . i i i 'm not worried about the cost of setting it up . i 'm worried about the cost of people looking at it . in other words , it 's it it 'd be kind of silly to collect it all and not look at it at all . and so i i i think that we do have to do some picking and choosing of the stuff that we 're doing . but i i am int i do think that we m minimally want something we might want to look at at some some , uh , subsets of that . like for a meeting like this , at least , uh , take a polaroid of the of the of the boards , phd b : of the board . postdoc h : yeah . phd b : or at least make sure that the note - taker takes a sh you know , a snapshot of the board . professor d : and postdoc h : exactly . professor d : a and know the position of the people phd b : that 'll make it a lot easier for meetings that are structured . postdoc h : exactly . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : i mean , otherwise later on if nobody wrote this stuff on the board down we 'd have a harder time summarizing it or agreeing on a summary . postdoc h : we and it especially since this is common knowledge . i mean , this is shared knowledge among all the participants , and it 's a shame to keep it off the recording . grad g : uh , except in er , if we were n't recording this , this this would get lost . right ? professor d : yeah . postdoc h : well , i do n't understand that point . i mean , i just think that the grad g : the point is that we 're not saving it anyway . right ? in in our real - life setting . postdoc h : well professor a : what do you mean we 're not saving it anyway ? i 've written all of this down and it 's getting emailed to you . professor c : and you 're gon na send it out by email , too . grad g : well , uh , in that case we do n't need to take pictures of it . phd b : right . that would be the other alternative , to make sure that anything that was on the board , um , is in the record . professor a : yeah . professor c : yeah . postdoc h : well professor a : well , that 's why that 's why i 'm saying that i think the note - taking would be i think in many for many meetings there will be some sort of note - taking , in which case , that 's a useful thing to have uh , i mean , we uh , we do n't need to require it . just like the grad g : mm - hmm . professor a : i mean , i think it would be great if we try to get a picture with every meeting . um , postdoc h : i agree . professor a : so so we wo n't worry about requiring these things , but the more things that we can get it for , the more useful it will be for various applications . so . professor d : so so , i mean , departing for the moment from the data collection question but actually talking about , you know , this group and what we actually want to do , uh , so i guess that 's th the way what you were figuring on doing was was was , uh , putting together some notes and sending them to to everybody from from today ? ok . so . um postdoc h : that 's great . professor d : so so the question { comment } that that we started with was whether there was anything else we should do during during th during the collection . and i guess the crosspads was certainly one idea , uh , and we 'll get them from him and we 'll just do that . right ? and then the next thing we talked about was the was the summaries and are we gon na do anything about that . professor a : well , before we leave the crosspads and and call it done . professor d : oh , ok . professor a : so , if i 'm collecting data then there is this question of do i use crosspads ? professor d : yeah . professor a : so , i think that if we really seriously have me collect data and i ca n't use crosspads , it 's probably less useful for you guys to go to the trouble of using it , um , unless you think that the crosspads are gon na n i 'm not i 'm not sure what they 're gon na do . but but having a small percentage of the data with it , i 'm not sure whether that 's useful or not . maybe maybe it 's no big deal . professor d : what professor a : maybe we just do it and see what happens . professor d : i guess the point was to try again , to try to collect more information that could be useful later for for the ui stuff . professor a : mm - hmm . professor d : so it 's sort of landay supplying it so that landay 's stuff can be easier to do . professor a : right . professor d : so it it right now he 's g operating from zero , professor a : nothing . professor d : and so even if we did n't get it done from uw , it seems like that would could still you shou i mean , at least try it . phd b : i think it 'd be useful to have a small amount of it just as a proof of concept . professor d : yeah . phd b : it will professor a : right . ok . phd b : you know , what you can do with things . grad g : and and they seem to not be able to give enough of them away , so we could probably get more as well . phd b : yeah . but not not to rely on them for basic modeling . professor a : that 's true . so if it if it seems to be really useful to you guys , we could probably get a donation to me . grad g : yeah , i 'm not sure . i think it it it will again depend on landay , and if he has a student who 's interested , and how much infrastructure we 'll need . i mean , if it 's easy , we can just do it . professor d : yeah . grad g : um , but if it requires a lot of our time , we probably wo n't do it . professor a : right . professor d : i guess a lot of the stuff we 're doing now really is pilot in one sense or another . grad g : yeah . yeah , we have to sort of figure out what we 're gon na do . professor d : and so we try it out and see how it works . grad g : right . professor a : yeah . phd b : i just would n't base any of the modeling on having those . professor a : right . phd b : yeah . grad g : right . i ag i think i agree with that . phd b : it 's just professor a : right . ok . grad g : i think , though , the importance marking is a good idea , though . that if if people have something in front of them phd b : i 'd be sort of cool . i mean , it would yeah . that w should n't be hard for grad g : yeah . do it on pilots or laptops or something . ok , if something 's important everyone clap . professor a : ok . so crosspads , we 're just gon na try it and see what happens . grad g : yeah . um , i think that 's right . professor a : the note - taking so , i i think that this is gon na be useful . so if we record data i will definitely ask for it . so , i j i think we should just say this is not we do n't want to put any extra burden on people , but if they happen to generate minutes , could could they send it to us ? grad g : yeah . oh , ok . that 's fine . absolutely . professor c : mm - hmm . professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : and then grad g : yeah . what i was gon na say is that i do n't want to ask people to do something they would n't normally do in a meeting . it 's ver i just want to keep away from the artificiality . professor d : mm - hmm . grad g : but i think it definitely if they exist . and then jane 's idea of summarization afterward i think is not a bad one . um , picking out basically to let you pick out keywords , um , and , uh , construct queries . professor d : so who who does this summarization ? postdoc h : yeah , i 'm thinking that grad g : people in the meeting . postdoc h : yeah . grad g : you know , just at at the end of the meeting , before you go , postdoc h : uh - huh . phd b : without hearing each other though , probably . grad g : go around the table . professor d : yeah . phd e : yeah . phd f : or even just have one or two people stay behind . grad g : yeah . ugh . yeah . professor d : yeah . phd e : people with radio mikes can go into separate rooms and continue recording without hearing each other . that 's the nice thing . phd b : well , then you should try them a few weeks later postdoc h : how fascinating . phd b : and they have all these memory experiments about how little you actually retain grad g : and see score them ? phd e : that 's right . well , that 's the interesting thing , though . phd b : and was n't phd e : if we do if we collect four different summaries , you know , we 're gon na get all this weird data about how people perceive things differently . it 's like { comment } this is not what we meant to research . phd b : right , right . professor d : oh . yeah . postdoc h : that could be very interesting . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc h : yeah . professor a : but but again , like the crosspads , i do n't think i would base a lot of stuff on it , grad g : i d yeah , i do n't know how you would do it , though . professor a : because i think i know when i see the the clock coming near the end of the meeting , i 'm like inching towards the door . grad g : mm - hmm . running to yeah , professor a : you 're probably not gon na get a lot of people wanting to do this . grad g : maybe e is email easier ? postdoc h : well , i think if grad g : i mean , i when you first said do do it , um , spoken , what i was thinking is , oh then people have to come up postdoc h : mm - hmm . grad g : and you have to hook them up to the recorder . so , if they 're already here i think that 's good , professor a : right . grad g : but if they 're not already here for i 'd rather do email . i 'm much faster typing than anything else . postdoc h : yeah , i 'd just try well , however the least intrusive and and quickest way is , and th and closest to the meeting time too , cuz people will start to forget it as soon as they l leave . grad g : yeah . professor a : yeah . i think that i think doing it orally at the end of the meeting is the best time . grad g : i do n't know . at professor a : i just do n't postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor a : because they 're kind of a captive audience . once they leave , grad g : mm - hmm . professor a : you know , forget it . but but i grad g : yeah , read the digits , do the summary . professor a : right . but , uh , i do n't think that they 'll necessarily you 'll you 'll get many people willing to stay . but , you know , if you get even one professor d : well , i think it 's like the note - taking thing , postdoc h : i would s yeah . professor d : that that y that you ca n't certainly ca n't require it or people are n't gon na want to do this . but but if there 's some cases where they will , then it would be helpful . postdoc h : and i 'm also wondering , could n't that be included in the data sample so that you could increase the num you know , the words that are , uh , recognized by a particular individual ? if you could include the person 's meeting stuff and also the person 's summary stuff , maybe that would be uh , phd e : yeah . it 's kind of nice . postdoc h : an ad addition to their database . phd e : yeah . postdoc h : under the same acoustic circumstance , cuz if they just walk next door with their set - up , nothing 's changed , phd e : right . postdoc h : just phd f : so i have a question about queries , grad g : god , that 's bugging me . phd f : which is , um , grad g : can we turn that light off ? postdoc h : you turn phd f : uh grad g : if can we turn that just that that let professor d : the fl the fluorescent light is flickering . postdoc h : uh , let the record show the light is flickering . phd f : i do n't know . professor a : yeah . grad g : yeah , there 's a phd b : oh , it is it is like ok . professor d : yeah . professor a : yeah . grad g : very annoying . phd f : there you go . ok . grad g : oh , much better . professor a : for a little while i thought it was just that i was really tired . professor c : oh , yeah . professor d : yeah . professor c : that 's better . phd f : good . professor a : that and y { comment } too much caffeine and really tired , grad g : too much caffeine . professor a : but then i thought `` no , maybe that 's real `` . grad g : i thought it was the projector for a moment . it was like , `` what 's going on ? `` professor d : yeah . phd f : the question i had about queries was , um , so what we 're planning to do is have people look at the summaries and then generate queries ? are are we gon na try and o grad g : we we 've just been talking , how do we generate queries ? phd f : yeah . well , i mean , grad g : and so that was one suggestion . phd f : so , the question i had is is have we given any thought to how we would generate queries automatically given a summary ? i mean , i think that 's a whole research topic un unto itself , so that it may not be a feasible thing . but phd e : hello . dan here . phd b : should n't landay and his group be in charge of figuring out how to do this ? professor d : yeah . phd b : i mean , this is an issue that goes a little bit beyond where we are right now . they 're the expert phd e : mari ? professor a : yeah ? phd e : someone wants to know when you 're getting picked up . is someone picking you up ? professor a : um , what 's our schedule ? professor d : well , you still wanted to talk with liz . professor a : let 's see , you and i need dis uh , no , we did the liz talk . professor d : and you and i need to oh , oh . you already did the liz talk . professor a : yeah . so so that was the prosody thing . phd b : we - i do n't remember it . professor a : um , we need to finish the professor d : oh , ok . professor a : it 's already four - fifteen . phd b : i have like no recall memory . professor a : uh , after . professor d : yeah . professor a : we need to finish this discussion , and you and i need a little time for wrap - up and quad chart . so , grad g : and what ? professor a : um professor d : i 'm at your disposal . so , up to you . professor a : um , what what 's the plan for this discussion ? we should professor d : um , i think we should be able to wind up in another half - hour or something , you think ? grad g : at least . yeah . professor a : uh , less . grad g : m i even if that much ? professor a : yeah . professor d : less ? grad g : less . professor a : so , i think phd b : it 's interesting that he 's got , like , this discussion free professor d : well , i mean , we still have n't talked about the action items from here and so on . professor a : action yeah . so , phd b : yet it 's separate . professor d : and professor a : e e why do n't you say five - thirty ? i do n't phd e : ok , five - thirty . professor a : is that ok ? we 'll probably hit horrible traffic . phd e : sounds ok . h thanks , bye . professor a : that 's not a lot of time , phd e : that 's that . professor a : but professor d : yeah . grad g : well , in answer to `` is it landay 's problem ? `` , um , he does n't have a student who 's interested right now in doing anything . so he has very little manpower . um , there 's very little allocated for him and also he 's pretty focused on user interface . so i do n't think he wants to do information retrieval , query generation , that sort of stuff . professor d : yeah , well there 's gon na be these student projects that can do some things but it ca n't be , yeah , very deep . u i i actually think that that , uh , again , just as a bootstrap , { comment } if we do have something like summaries , then having the people who are involved in the meetings themselves , who are cooperative and willing to do yet more , come up with with with queries , uh , could at least give give landay an idea of the kind of things that people might want to know . i mean , ye right ? if he does n't know anything about the area , and the people are talking about and and , uh phd b : but the people will just look at the summaries or the minutes and re and sort of back - generate the queries . that 's what i 'm worried about . so you might as well just give him the summaries . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : and professor d : maybe . phd f : well , i 'm not sure i 'm not sure that 's a solved problem . grad g : y well , but i think phd b : oh , ok . phd f : right ? of how to how to generate queries from a phd b : how to do this from the summary . professor d : yeah . grad g : i , uh phd f : that was sort of what my question was aimed towards . phd b : so what you want to h to do is , people who were there , who later see , uh , minutes and s put in summary form , which is not gon na be at the same time as the meeting . there 's no way that can happen . are we gon na later go over it professor d : right . grad g : right . phd b : and , like , make up some stuff to which these notes would be an answer , or or a deeper yeah . i mean grad g : or or just a memory refresher . phd b : but that 's done off they have to do that off - line . grad g : yep . i agree . postdoc h : i 'm also wondering if we could ask the the people a a question which would be `` what was the most interesting thing you got out of this meeting ? `` becau - in terms of like informativeness , phd b : that 's a good one . postdoc h : it might be , you know , that the summary would would not in even include what the person thought was the most interesting fact . professor d : i would think that would be the most likely thing . phd b : dan does n't know what sex he is . phd e : yeah , really . professor a : but actually i would say that 's a better thing to ask than have them summarize the meeting . postdoc h : i think you get two different types of information . professor a : you get two yeah , that 's true . phd e : yeah . postdoc h : because you get , like , the general structure of important points and what the what the meeting was about . professor d : yeah . grad g : we 're still here . postdoc h : so you get the general structure , the important points of what the meeting was about with the summary . but with the `` what 's the most interesting thing you learned ? `` uh , so the fact that , uh , i know that transcriber uses snack is something that i thought was interesting phd b : going to see the kids . phd e : you you can keep it on . postdoc h : and that and that dan worked on on that . so i thought that was really you know . so , i mean , you could ge pick up some of the micro items that would n't even occur as major headings professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc h : but could be very informative . professor a : yeah , that 's actually a really good idea . postdoc h : i think it would n't be too , uh , uh , cost - intensive either . you know , i mean , it 's like something someone can do pretty easily on the spur of the moment . professor c : are you thinking about just asking one participant or all of them ? grad g : as many are willing to do it . professor c : make it a voluntary thing , phd e : yeah . cuz you 'll get cuz you 'll get very different answers from everybody , right ? professor c : and then yeah . that 's why i was wondering . phd e : so grad g : well , maybe one thing we could do is for the meetings we 've already done i mean , i we did n't take minutes and we do n't have summaries . but , uh , people could , like , listen to them a little bit and generate some queries . postdoc h : yeah . grad g : of course jane does n't need to . i 'm sure you have that meeting memorized by now . phd e : yeah . professor a : but actually it would be an easy thing to just go around the room and say what was the most interesting thing you learned , postdoc h : yeah . yeah . professor a : for those pe people willing to stay . postdoc h : and that i think it would pick up the micro - structure , the some some of the little things that would be hidden . professor a : and and that might be something people are willing to stay for . professor d : boy , i i do n't know how we get at this postdoc h : that would be interesting . professor c : yeah , but when you go around the room you might just get the effect that somebody says something grad g : or want to get up and leave . professor c : and then you go around the room and they say `` yeah , me too , i agree . `` grad g : me too , me too , me too . professor d : yeah . professor a : that 's fine . professor c : so phd e : on the other hand people might try and come up with different ones , right ? professor d : well phd e : they might say `` oh , i was gon na say that one but now i have to think of something else `` . grad g : well , you have the other thing , that that they know why we 're doing it . we 'll i mean , we 'll we 'll be telling them that the reason we 're trying to do this is is to d generate queries in the future , so try to pick things that other people did n't say . professor d : it 's gon na take some thought . i mean , it seemed the kind of , uh , interest that i had in this thing initially was , uh , that i basically the form that you 're doing something else later , professor a : mm - hmm . professor d : and you want to pick up something from this meeting related to the something else . so it 's really the imp the the list of what 's important 's in the something else professor a : right . professor d : rather than the and it might be something minor of minor importance to the meeting . professor c : mm - hmm . grad g : right . professor d : uh , in fact if if it was really major , if it 's the thing that really stuck in your head , then you might not need to go back and and and check on it even . so it 's it 's that you 're trying to find { comment } you 're you 've now you were n't interested say i i said `` well , i was n't that much interested in dialogue , i 'm more of an acoustics person `` . phd e : right . professor d : but but thr three months from now if for some reason i get really interested in dialogue , and i 'm `` well what is what was that part that that that , uh , mari was saying ? `` grad g : yeah , like jim bass says `` add a few lines on dialogue in your next perf `` professor a : uh professor d : yeah . yeah . professor a : yeah . professor d : and then i 'm trying to fi i mean , that 's that 's when i look in general when i look things up most , is when it 's something that did n't really stick in my head the first time around and but for some { comment } new reason i 'm i 'm i 'm interested in in in the old stuff . grad g : but that that 's gon na be very hard to generate . professor a : well , i that 's hard to generate professor d : so , i do n't i do n't know . professor c : mm - hmm . phd f : do we professor a : and and i think that 's half of what i i would use it for . but i also a lot of times um , make you know , think to myself `` this is interesting , professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : i 've got ta come back and follow up on it `` . professor d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : so , things that i think are interesting , um , i would be , uh , wanting to do a query about . and also , i like the idea of going around the room , because if somebody else thought something was interesting , i 'd kind of want to know about it and then i 'd want to follow up on it . professor d : yeah . that that might get at some of what i was i was concerned about , uh , being interested in something later that w uh , i did n't consider to be important the first time , which for me is actually the dominant thing , because if i thought it was really important it tends to stick more than if i did n't , but some new task comes along that makes me want to look up . grad g : but but what 's interesting to me may not b have been interesting to you . professor d : yeah . so having multiple people might get at some of that . grad g : by so by going around yeah . professor d : yeah . grad g : yeah , i i think you ca n't get at all of it , professor d : yeah . grad g : right ? w we just need to start somewhere . professor d : yeah , and this is a starting point . postdoc h : uh - huh . phd f : the question the question then is h h how much bias do we introduce by you know , introduce by saying , you know , this was important now and , you know , maybe tha something else is important later ? professor d : mm - hmm . phd f : i mean , does it does the bias matter ? i i do n't know . i mean , uh , that 's , i guess , a question for you guys . but postdoc h : well , and and one thing , we we 're saying `` important `` and we 're saying `` interesting `` . phd f : uh , yeah , yeah . postdoc h : and and those those can be two different things . professor a : mm - hmm . phd f : sure , sure . but i i i guess that 's the question , really , is that i mean , postdoc h : mm - hmm . phd f : does building queries based on what 's important now introduce an irreversible bias on being able to do what morgan wants to do later ? professor d : well , irreversible . postdoc h : ok , good . phd f : that 's that 's professor d : i i i mean , i guess what i what i i keep coming back to in my own mind is that , um , the soonest we can do it , we need to get up some kind of system postdoc h : yeah . phd f : right . professor d : so that people who 've been involved in the meeting can go back later , even if it 's a poor system in some ways , and , uh and ask the questions that they actually want to know . if you know , if uh , as soon as we can get that going at any kind of level , then i think we 'll have a much better handle on what kind of questions people want to ask than in any anything we do before that . but obviously we have to bootstrap somehow , professor a : right . professor d : and phd f : sure . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor a : right . phd f : i agree . postdoc h : i will say that that i i chose `` interesting `` because i think it includes also `` important `` in some cases . but , um , i i i feel like the summary gets at a different type of information . phd f : i think `` important `` can often be uninteresting . phd e : mmm . and `` interesting `` is more interesting than `` important `` . postdoc h : well , and and also i it puts a lot of burden on the person to to evaluate . you know , i think inter `` interesting `` is is non - threatening in professor a : ok - ok . postdoc h : yeah . professor a : in the interest of , um , grad g : importance ? postdoc h : yeah . professor a : generati { comment } generating an interesting summary , { comment } um postdoc h : mm - hmm . yeah . professor a : no , i in the interest of generating some minutes here , uh , and also moving on to action items and other things , let me just go through the things that i wrote down as being important , um , that we at least decided on . crosspads we were going to try , um , if landay can get the , uh get them to to you guys , um , and see if they 're interesting . and if they are , then we 'll try to get m do it more . um , getting electronic summary from a note - taking person if they happen to do it anyway . professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : um , getting just , uh , digital pictures a couple digital pictures of the the table and boards to set the context of the meeting . uh , and then going around the room at the end to just say qu ask people to mention something interesting that they learned . so rather than say the most interesting thing , something interesting , and that way you 'll get more variety . postdoc h : sure . professor d : mm - hmm . grad g : i would n't even say that `` that they learned `` . postdoc h : that 's good . i like that . i like that . phd e : yeah . grad g : uh , you might want to mention something that that you brought up . professor a : `` thing that was discussed . `` and then the last thing c would be for those people who are willing to stay afterwards and give an oral summary . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor a : ok ? does that pretty much cover everything we talked about ? that well , that we want to do ? postdoc h : mm - hmm . a and one and one qualification on on the oral summaries . they 'd be s they 'd be separate . they would n't be hearing each other 's summaries . grad g : yeah , that 's like n i think that 's gon na predominantly end up being whoever takes down the equipment then . postdoc h : and and that would also be that the data would be included in the database . grad g : yeah , that would be , let 's see , me . professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc h : mm - hmm . phd e : i mean , there is still this hope that people might actually think of real queries they really want to ask at some point . and that if if that ever should happen , then we should try and write them down . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor d : right . professor c : mm - hmm . grad g : give them a reward , a dollar a query ? phd e : yeah , really . professor d : yeah . phd e : if they 're real queries . professor a : ok . so professor d : well , and again , if we can figure out a way to jimmy a a a a very rough system , say in a year , then uh , so that in the second and third years we we actually have something to postdoc h : yeah . grad g : yeah . professor a : play with and generate real queries from . professor d : ask queries . professor a : right . ok . phd e : yeah . grad g : yeah . professor a : so . yeah . professor d : uh phd b : i think i just wanted to say one thing about queries . i mean , the level of the query could be , you know , very low - level or very high - level . and it gets fuzzier and fuzzier as you go up , right ? grad g : well , we 're gon na phd b : so you need to have some sort of if you start working with queries , some way of identifying what the you know , if this is something that requires a a one - word answer or it 's one place in the recording versus was there general agreement on this issue of all the people who ha you know , you can gen you can ask queries that are meaningful for people . in fact , they 're very meaningful cuz they 're very high - level . but they wo n't exist anywhere in the a you know grad g : absolutely . so i think we 're gon na have to start with keywords postdoc h : mm - hmm . grad g : and and if someone becomes more interested we could work our way up . professor d : i i 'm i i 'm not so sure i agree with that . phd b : it but it may well grad g : but professor d : because uh , b because it depends on , uh , what our goal is . grad g : really ? professor d : if our goal is wizard of oz - ish , we might want to know what is it that people would really like to know about this data . grad g : oh , that 's true . professor d : and if it 's if if it 's something that we do n't know how to do yet , th great , phd e : yeah . professor a : right . phd e : yeah . professor d : that 's , you know , research project for year four or something . professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : research , yeah . professor d : you know ? professor a : mm - hmm . grad g : yeah , i was thinking about wizard of oz , but it requires the wizard to know all about the meetings . phd e : we 'd have to listen to all the data . professor d : um , well , not maybe not true wizard of oz because people are too grad g : oh , yeah . i i understand . professor d : uh , aware of what 's going on . phd e : well just imagine if professor d : but but just phd e : get people to ask questions that they def the machine definitely ca n't answer at the moment , professor d : yeah . w just `` what would you like to know ? `` phd e : but yeah . grad g : but that neither could anyone else , though , is what , uh , my point is . postdoc h : i i was wondering if if there might be one s more source of queries which is indicator phrases like `` action item `` , which could be obtained from the text from the transcript . grad g : right . since we have the transcript . postdoc h : yeah . grad g : dates maybe . i do n't know . that 's something i always forget . postdoc h : yeah , that 's something to be determined , something to be specified , phd b : well , probably if you have to sit there at the end of a meeting and say one thing you remember , it 's probably whatever action item was assigned to you . postdoc h : but text - oriented . phd b : i mean , in gen that 's all i remember from most meetings . grad g : that that 's all i wrote down . postdoc h : i think you 'd remember that , yeah . phd b : so , in general , i mean , that could be something you could say , right ? i 'm supposed to do this . it it does n't postdoc h : yeah , that 's true . well , but then you could you could prompt them to say , you know , `` other than your action item `` , you know , whatever . phd e : well postdoc h : but but the action item would be a way to get , uh , maybe an additional query . phd b : i mean , that 's realistically what people might well be remembering . postdoc h : yeah . well , but you know , but you could get again @ @ professor a : well , we 're piloting . we 'll just do it and see what happens . phd b : yeah . yeah . professor d : yeah . postdoc h : yeah . professor d : i usually do n't remember my action items . but i 'd i professor a : ok - ok . speaking of action items , can we move on to action items ? professor d : yeah . mm - hmm . grad g : sure . can you hand me my note pad ? postdoc h : yeah . yeah . professor a : um , or maybe we should wait until the summary of this until this meeting is transcribed and then we will hav professor d : we we had i mean , phd e : yeah . then we 'll know . grad g : thanks . professor d : somewhere up there we had milestones , but i guess did y did you get enough milestone , uh , from the description things ? professor a : i got yeah . in fact , why do n't you hand me those transparencies so that i remember to take them . eee , professor d : and , you know , there 's obviously detail behind each of those , as much as is needed . so , you just have to let us know . professor a : ok . what i have down for action items is we 're supposed to find out about our human subject , um , requirements . postdoc h : good . professor a : people are supposed to send me u r for their for web pages , to c and i 'll put together an overall cover . and you 're s phd e : right . we we need to look at our web page professor a : and and you also need to look at your web page phd e : and make one that 's that 's p professor a : and clean it up by mid - july . phd e : pda - free . grad g : right . phd e : yeah . professor d : right . professor a : let 's see . choo - choo - choo . we grad g : mailing lists . professor a : mailing list ? uh , you need to put together a mailing list . professor d : three of them . professor a : uh , i think w professor d : well i mean , professor a : yeah . professor d : mostly together . professor a : uh , i need to email adam or jane , um , about getting the data . who should i email ? grad g : uh , how quickly do you want it ? my july is really very crowded . and so , uh professor a : how about if i just c uh , right now all i want i personally only want text data . i think the only thing jeff would do anything with right now but i 'm just speaking fr based on a conversation with him two weeks ago i had in turkey . but i think all he would want is the digits . um , but i 'll just speak for myself . i 'm interested in getting the language model data . eh , so i 'm just interested in getting transcriptions . grad g : mm - hmm . professor a : so then just email you ? postdoc h : ok . so y sure , sure , sure . you could email to both of us , uh , just i mean , if you wanted to . professor d : mm - hmm . postdoc h : i mean , i do n't think either of us would mind recei grad g : that 's right . postdoc h : but but in any case i 'd be happy to send you the professor a : and your email is ? postdoc h : edwards at icsi . grad g : dot berkeley dot edu , of course . professor a : and then professor d : in in our phone call , uh , before , we we , uh it turns out the way we 're gon na send the data is by , uh , and , uh and then what they 're gon na do is take the cd - rom and transfer it to analog tape and give it to a transcription service , uh , that will grad g : oh , is this ibm ? professor d : yeah . postdoc h : yeah , using foot pedals professor d : yeah , foot foot pedals postdoc h : and professor d : and grad g : uh , so do they how are they gon na do the multi - channel ? professor d : see , that 's a good question . postdoc h : yeah . they they do n't have a way . grad g : i thought so . professor d : no , i mean , it 'll be postdoc h : but they have a verification . professor d : probably about like you did , and then there will be some things you know , many things that do n't work out well . and that 'll go back to ibm and they 'll they 'll , uh they run their aligner on it and it kicks out things that do n't work well , which you know , the overlaps will certainly be examples of that . and , uh i mean , what w we will give them all of it . right ? grad g : ok . that 's , uh , my question . professor d : we 'll give them all the the multi - channel stuff grad g : so we 'll give them all sixteen channels professor d : and grad g : and they 'll do whatever they want with it . professor d : yeah . phd b : but you also should probably give them the mixed you know , equal sound - level professor d : yeah . good idea . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : i mean , they 're not gon na easily be able to do that , probably . grad g : it 's not hard . professor d : well phd b : ah , yeah . mm - hmm . professor d : it 's also wo n't be adding much to the data to give them the mixed . phd f : it 's not professor a : right . phd f : right . it does n't it is n't difficult for us to do , grad g : yep . absolutely . phd b : i you should yeah . phd f : so we might as well just do it . phd b : you should that may be all that they want to send off to their transcribers . grad g : absolutely . so , sure . professor a : ok . related to to the conversation with picheny , i need to email him , uh , my shipping address and you need to email them something which you already did . postdoc h : i did . i i m emailed them the transcriber url , um , the on - line , uh , data that adam set up , the url so they can click on an utterance and hear it . and i emailed them the str streamlined conventions which you got a copy of today . professor d : right . and i was gon na m email them the which i have n't yet , a pointer to to the web pages that we that we currently have , cuz in particular they want to see the one with the the way the recording room is set up postdoc h : good . professor d : and so on , your your page on that . postdoc h : oh , excellent . good . grad g : and then p possibly postdoc h : i c - i cc ' ed morgan . i should have sent i should have cc ' ed you as well . grad g : not an immediate action item but something we do have to worry about is data formats for for higher - level information . professor d : oh , yeah . we were gon na grad g : well , or d or not even higher level , different level , prosody and all that sort of stuff . we 're gon na have to figure out how we 're gon na annotate that . professor a : yeah . we never had our data format discussion . professor d : yeah , we w right . postdoc h : oh , i thought we did . we discussed , uh , musi musical score notation professor a : oh , ok . grad g : but that 's not that 's display . postdoc h : and and its xml grad g : that 's different than format . professor a : that 's postdoc h : well , um professor a : w my my u feeling right now on format is you guys have been doing all the work phd e : well uh , yeah . professor a : and whatever you want , we 're happy to live with . postdoc h : yeah . ok , excellent . professor a : other people may not agree with that , professor d : ok . so , what n important thing professor a : but cuz i 'm not actually touching the data , postdoc h : well , it c phd e : right . professor a : so i should n't be the one to talk . but professor c : no , i think that 's fine . professor d : so a key thing will be that you we tell you postdoc h : great . professor a : yeah . professor d : what it is . uh , we also had phd f : `` here 's a mysterious file phd e : yeah . phd f : and `` professor d : we also had the , uh , uh that we were s uh , that you were gon na get us the eight - hundred number professor a : oh , yeah . professor d : and we 're all gon na we 're gon na call up your communicator thing and and we 're gon na be good slash bad , depending on how you define it , uh , users . professor c : now , something that i mentioned earlier to mari and liz is that it 's probably important to get as many non - technical and non - speech people as possible in order to get some realistic users . so if you could ask other people to call and use our system , that 'd be good . cuz we do n't want people who already know how to deal with dialogue systems , professor a : yeah . or , like if you have a professor c : who know that you should n't hyper - articulate , for instance , and things like that . professor a : or , like if you have somebody who makes your your plane reservations for you , professor d : yeah . professor a : um , which is professor d : yeah , we can do that . grad g : get my parents to do it . professor a : yeah . yeah . seriously . professor c : yeah , for instance . professor d : yeah . professor c : your grandmother . professor a : yeah . e you know , it could result in some good bloopers , which is always good for presentations . so um , anyway professor d : yeah . grad g : i think my father would last through the second prompt before he hang hung up . professor d : my mother would have a very interesting conversation with it grad g : he would never use it . professor d : but it would n't have anything to do with the travel . professor a : ok . um , other let 's see , other action items . so i have the professor d : we talked about that we 're getting the recording equipment running at uw . and so it depends , w e e e they 're you know , they 're p m if that comes together within the next month , there at least will be , uh , uh , major communications between dan and uw folks phd e : yeah . i mean , professor a : i 'm i 'm shooting to try to get it done get it put together by the beginning of august . professor d : as to phd e : we should talk about it , but professor a : so , um , you know , if professor d : but we have it it 's it 's pretty we do n't know . i mean , he he s uh , he said that it was sitting in some room collecting dust professor a : we do n't know . professor d : and and so we do n't know , professor a : i it 's probably unlikely that we 'll pull this off , but a at least it 's worth trying . grad g : mm - hmm . what is it ? professor d : we do n't know . grad g : oh , ok . professor d : `` recording equipment . `` phd e : yeah . grad g : it 's a tape recorder . professor d : w we know it 's eight channels . uh , we know it 's digital . grad g : it 's eight tape recorders . professor d : we do n't even know if there 're microphones . so , we 'll find out . professor a : ok . um , and i will email these notes um , i 'm not sure what to do about action items for the data stuff , although , then somebody i guess somebody needs to tell landay that you want the pads . professor d : yeah , ok . i 'll do that . um , and he also said something about outside there that came up about the outside text sources , that he he may have grad g : mm - hmm . professor d : some text sources that are close enough to the sort of thing that we can play with them for a language model . phd e : yeah , that was uh , that was what he was saying was this he this thing that , uh , jason had been working on finds web pages that are thematically related to what you 're talking about . well , that 's the idea . so that that that would be a source of text which is supposedly got the right vocabulary . professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : right . phd e : but it 's obviously very different material . it 's not spoken material , for instance , professor d : yeah . but it 's p it might be phd e : so professor a : but but that 's actually what i wan na do . that 's that 's what i wan na work with , is is things that s the wrong material but the right da the right source . phd e : yeah . grad g : yeah . phd e : yeah . grad g : un - unfortunately landay told me that jason is not gon na be working on that anymore . professor a : yeah . grad g : he 's switching to other stuff again . professor a : yeah . he seemed when i asked him if he could actually supply data , he seemed a little bit more reluctant . so , i 'll i 'll send him email . i 'll put it in an action item that i send him email about it . and if i get something , great . if i do n't get something grad g : who ? landay or jason ? professor a : landay . and , uh , um , you know , otherwise , if you guys have any papers or i could i could use , uh i could use your web pages . that 's what we could do . you 've got all the web pages on the meeting recor professor d : yeah , why search for them ? professor a : yeah ! professor d : they 're we know where they are . grad g : true . professor d : yeah , that 's true . grad g : absolutely . professor a : oh , forget this ! phd e : sure . grad g : well , but that 's not very much . professor a : i one less action item . i can use what web pages there are out there on meeting recorders . phd e : right . grad g : i mean , that that 's yeah . basically what his software does is h it picks out keywords and does a google - like search . professor a : yeah . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor d : yeah . so we can we can we can do better than that . phd e : we can do that . yeah . grad g : so you could professor d : yeah . grad g : yeah . professor c : mm - hmm . professor d : there 's there 's some , uh , carnegie mellon stuff , right ? on on meeting recording , phd b : and xerox . professor a : so , there 's there 's icsi , xerox , professor d : and phd b : and there 's you should l look under , like , intelligent environments , professor d : and xerox . yeah . phd b : smart rooms , grad g : um , the `` georgia tech classroom two thousand `` is a good one . phd b : um right . and then right . j there 's th that 's where i thought you would want to eventually be able to have a board or a camera , professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : because of all these classroom grad g : well , georgia tech did a very elaborate instrumented room . professor a : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . grad g : and i want to try to stay away from that . so professor a : ok . great . that solves that problem . one less action item . um ok . i think that 's good enou that 's that 's pretty much all i can think of . postdoc h : can i ask , uh , one thing ? it relates to data data collection and i and i 'd and we mentioned earlier today , this question of um , so , um , i s i know that from with the near - field mikes some of the problems that come with overlapping speech , uh , are lessened . but i wonder if uh , is that sufficient or should we consider maybe getting some data gathered in such a way that , um , u w we would c uh , p have a meeting with less overlap than would otherwise be the case ? so either by rules of participation , or whatever . professor a : oh , yeah . postdoc h : now , i mean , you know , it 's true , i mean , we were discussing this earlier , that depending on the task so if you 've got someone giving a report you 're not gon na have as much overlap . phd f : adam ! postdoc h : but , um , i i uh , so we 're gon na have s you know , non - overlapping samples anyway . but , um , in a meeting which would otherwise be highly overlapping , is the near - field mike enough or should we have some rules of participation for some of our samples to lessen the overlap ? phd e : turn off professor a : i do n't think we should have rules of participation , but i think we should try to get a variety of meetings . that 's something that if we get the the meeting stuff going at uw , that i probably can do more than you guys , cuz you guys are probably mostly going to get icsi people here . but we can get anybody in ee , uh , over professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : and and possibly also some cs people , uh , over at uw . so , i think that that there 's a good chance we could get more variety . postdoc h : ok . just want to be sure there 's enough data to phd b : they 're still gon na overlap , postdoc h : ok , good . phd b : but mark and others have said that there 's quite a lot of found data { comment } from the discourse community that has this characteristic and also the political y you know , anything that was televised for a third party has the characteristic of not very much overlap . professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : mm - hmm . professor d : wasn - but w i think we were saying before also that the natural language group here had less overlap . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor d : so it also depends on the style of the group of people . professor a : right . phd b : like the , um , dominance relations of the people in the meeting . postdoc h : mm - hmm . on the task , and the task . grad g : mm - hmm . postdoc h : it 's just i just wanted to uh , professor d : yeah . postdoc h : because you know , it is true people can modify the amount of overlap that they do if if they 're asked to . professor d : yeah . postdoc h : not not entirely modify it , but lessen it if if it 's desired . but if if that 's sufficient data i just wanted to be sure that we will not be having a lot of data which ca n't be processed . professor a : ok . so i 'm just writing here , we 're not gon na try to specify rules of interaction but we 're gon na try to get more variety by i using different groups of people postdoc h : time . professor a : and different sizes . postdoc h : fine . and i you know , i i know that the near f near - field mikes will take care of also the problems to s to a certain degree . professor a : e e yeah . and then the other thing might be , um , uh , technical versus administrative . postdoc h : i just wanted to be sure . professor a : cuz if i recorded some administrative meetings then that may have less overlap , because you might have more overlap when you 're doing something technical and disagreeing or whatever . postdoc h : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . well , i just as as as a contributary eh , so i i know that in l in legal depositions people are pr are prevented from overlapping . they 'll just say , you know you know , `` wait till each person is finished before you say something `` . so it is possible to lessen if we wanted to . but but these other factors are fine . i just wanted to raise the issue . professor a : well , the reason why i did n't want to is be why i personally did n't want to { comment } is because i wanted it to be as , uh , unintrusive as possi postdoc h : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : as you could be with these things hanging on you . postdoc h : oh , yeah . yeah , i think that 's always desired . i just want to be sure we do n't that we 're able to process , i u uh , you know , as much data as we can . yeah . professor d : yeah . did they discuss any of that in the the meeting they had with l liberman ? phd b : mm - hmm . professor d : what phd b : and there was a big division , professor d : what what do they phd b : so liberman and others were interested in a lot of found data . professor d : yeah . phd b : so there 's lots of recordings that they 're not close - talk mike , professor d : yeah . phd b : but and and there 's lots of television , you know , stuff on , um , political debates and things like that , congre congressional hearings . boring stuff like that . um , and then the cmu folks and i were sort of on the other side in cuz they had collected a lot of meetings that were sort of like this and said that those are nothing like these meetings . um , so there 're really two different kinds of data . and , i guess we just left it as @ @ { comment } that if there 's found data that can be transformed for use in speech recognition easily , then of course we would do it , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : but newly collected data would would be natural meetings . so . professor d : actually , th @ @ { comment } the cmu folk have collected a lot of data . is that is that going to be publicly available , phd b : as far as i know , they h have not . professor d : or ? phd b : um , but e grad g : it 's also it 's not it 's not near - far , right ? phd b : i 'm not sure . um , if people were interested they could talk to them , but i i got the feeling there was some politics involved . grad g : i think @ @ gon na add that to one of my action items . professor d : just to check . phd b : i i do n't know . professor d : yeah . w we should know what 's out there certainly . grad g : yeah . phd b : i mean , the professor d : yeah . grad g : cuz i had thought they 'd only done far - field , phd b : i think you need to talk to waibel and grad g : intelligent - room sorts of things . phd e : oh , really ? it 's those guys . grad g : i had n't known that then they 'd done any more than that . professor d : oh , they only did the far - field ? i see . grad g : yeah . phd b : but they had multiple mikes and they did do recognition , and they did do real conversations . but as far as i know they did n't offer that data to the community at this meeting . grad g : mm - hmm . phd b : but that could change cuz mark you know , mark 's really into this . we should keep in touch with him . professor d : yeah . well , once we send out postdoc h : yeah , i think professor d : i mean , we still have n't sent out the first note saying `` hey , this list exists `` . but but , uh , once we do that professor a : is that an action item ? professor d : yeah . it 's on i already added that one on my board to do that . so , uh uh , hopefully everybody here is on that list . we should at least check that everybody here ? grad g : i think everyone here is on the list . professor d : yeah . phd f : i 'm not . grad g : i think you are . professor d : we have n't sent anything to the list yet . phd f : oh ! ok . postdoc h : yeah . professor d : we 're just compiling the list . phd f : i see . grad g : i i added a few people who did n't who i knew had to be on it even though they did n't tell me . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : who specifically ask not to be . grad g : like jane , for example . professor d : yeah . grad g : you are on it , are n't you ? postdoc h : yeah , i am . professor d : yeah . postdoc h : so , i w uh , just just for clarification . so `` found data `` , they mean like established corpora of linguistics and and other fields , right ? phd b : what they mean is stuff they do n't have to fund to collect , postdoc h : it sounds like such a t phd b : and especially good postdoc h : yeah , ok . phd b : well , i mean , `` found `` has , uh , also the meaning that 's it very natural . it 's things occur without any you know , the pe these people were n't wearing close - talking mikes , but they were recorded anyway , like the congressional hearings and , you know , for legal purposes or whatever . postdoc h : ok . but it includes like standard corpora that have been used for years in linguistics and other fields . phd b : mark 's aware of those , too . phd e : `` hey , look what we found ! `` phd b : that would be found data because they found it and it exists . postdoc h : exactly . phd e : `` i found this great corpora . `` yeah . phd b : they did n't have to collect it . of course it 's not `` found `` in the sense that at the time it was collected for the purpose . grad g : `` psst . { comment } want to buy a corpora ? `` postdoc h : yeah . ok , ok . phd b : but what he means is that you know , mark was really a fan of getting as much data as possible from you know , reams and reams of stuff , of broadcast stuff , postdoc h : that 's interesting . phd b : web stuff , postdoc h : mm - hmm . phd b : tv stuff , radio stuff . but he well understands that that 's very different than these this type of meeting . grad g : it 's not the same . phd b : but , so what ? it 's still it 's interesting for other reasons . postdoc h : ok . yeah . just wanted to know . professor d : so , seems like we 're winding down . professor a : mm - hmm . professor d : right ? many ways . phd b : you can tell by the prosody . phd e : so we should go go around and s professor a : yeah . phd e : we should go around and say something interesting that happened at the meeting ? professor a : oh . yes , we should do that . phd b : rrrh ! grad g : now , i was already thinking about it , so professor d : oh ! good man . phd b : this is painful task . i grad g : so , um , i really liked the idea of what i thought was interesting was the combination of the crosspad and the speech . especially , um , the interaction of them rather than just note - taking . so , can you determine the interesting points by who 's writing ? can you do special gestures and so on that that have , uh , special meaning to the corpora ? i really liked that . postdoc h : well , i i just realized there 's another category of interesting things which is that , um , i i found this discussion very , uh , i this this question of how you get at queries really interesting . and and the and i and the fact that it 's sort of , uh , nebulous , what what that what kind of query it would be because it depends on what your purpose is . so i actually found that whole process of of trying to think of what that would involve to be interesting . but that 's not really a specific fact . i just sort of thought we we went around a nice discussion of the factors involved there , which i thought was worthwhile . phd e : i had a real revelation about taking pictures . i do n't know why i did n't do this before and i regret it . so that was very interesting for me . postdoc h : mm - hmm . grad g : did you take pictures of the boards ? phd e : not that i postdoc h : yeah . phd e : the boards are n't really related to this meeting . i mean , i will take pictures of them , but postdoc h : that 's a good point . professor a : they 're related to this morning 's meeting . phd e : but postdoc h : yeah . grad g : to the pre previous meeting . that 's right . phd e : ok . well , that 's why i 'll take pictures of them , then . phd f : i 'm gon na pass because i ca n't i mean , of the jane took my answer . um , so i 'm gon na pass for the moment but y come come back to me . phd e : for the moment . phd b : pass . professor a : i think i think `` pass `` is socially acceptable . but i will say uh , i will actually uh , a spin on different slightly different spin on what you said , this issue of , uh , realizing that we could take minutes , and that actually may be a goal . so that that may be kind of the test in a sense , test data , uh , the the template of what we want to test against , generating a summary . so that 's an interesting new twist on what we can do with this data . professor c : i agree with jane and eric . i think the question of how to generate queries automatically was the most interesting question that came up , and it 's something that , as you said , is a whole research topic in itself , so i do n't think we 'll be able to do anything on it because we do n't have funding on it , uh , in this project . but , um , it 's definitely something i would want to do something on . grad g : i wonder if work 's already been done on it . postdoc h : like e expert systems and stuff , or ? uh - huh . professor d : well , being more management lately than than research , i think the thing that impressed me most was the people dynamics and not any of the facts . that is , i i really enjoyed hanging out with this group of people today . so that 's what really impressed me . phd e : how are we gon na find that in the data ? grad g : well , if we had people wearing the wireless mikes all the time phd e : oh , yeah . grad g : yeah , i think phd f : well , i mean , one thing you could search for is were people laughing a lot . phd e : right . phd f : right ? so . professor d : yeah . phd e : how happy were they ? professor d : i 'd probably search for something like that . grad g : that actually has come up a couple times in queries . i was talking to landay professor d : yeah . grad g : and that was one of his examples . professor d : yeah . grad g : when when did people laugh ? phd e : that 's great . professor d : find me a funny thing that jeff said . yeah . grad g : so we need a laugh detector . phd e : yeah . professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : perfect . postdoc h : yeah . grad g : cuz that seems to be pretty common . not in the congressional hearings . quiet sobbing . professor d : so i think we 're done . professor a : great . phd e : great . grad g : i think we 're done . professor d : great . postdoc h : h do we need do i need to turn something off here , or i do unplug this , or ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about generating queries </s> phd f : the question i had about queries was , um , so what we 're planning to do is have people look at the summaries and then generate queries ? are are we gon na try and o grad g : we we 've just been talking , how do we generate queries ? phd f : yeah . well , i mean , grad g : and so that was one suggestion . phd f : so , the question i had is is have we given any thought to how we would generate queries automatically given a summary ? i mean , i think that 's a whole research topic un unto itself , so that it may not be a feasible thing . but phd e : hello . dan here . phd b : should n't landay and his group be in charge of figuring out how to do this ? professor d : yeah . phd b : i mean , this is an issue that goes a little bit beyond where we are right now . they 're the expert phd e : mari ? professor a : yeah ? phd e : someone wants to know when you 're getting picked up . is someone picking you up ? professor a : um , what 's our schedule ? professor d : well , you still wanted to talk with liz . professor a : let 's see , you and i need dis uh , no , we did the liz talk . professor d : and you and i need to oh , oh . you already did the liz talk . professor a : yeah . so so that was the prosody thing . phd b : we - i do n't remember it . professor a : um , we need to finish the professor d : oh , ok . professor a : it 's already four - fifteen . phd b : i have like no recall memory . professor a : uh , after . professor d : yeah . professor a : we need to finish this discussion , and you and i need a little time for wrap - up and quad chart . so , grad g : and what ? professor a : um professor d : i 'm at your disposal . so , up to you . professor a : um , what what 's the plan for this discussion ? we should professor d : um , i think we should be able to wind up in another half - hour or something , you think ? grad g : at least . yeah . professor a : uh , less . grad g : m i even if that much ? professor a : yeah . professor d : less ? grad g : less . professor a : so , i think phd b : it 's interesting that he 's got , like , this discussion free professor d : well , i mean , we still have n't talked about the action items from here and so on . professor a : action yeah . so , phd b : yet it 's separate . professor d : and professor a : e e why do n't you say five - thirty ? i do n't phd e : ok , five - thirty . professor a : is that ok ? we 'll probably hit horrible traffic . phd e : sounds ok . h thanks , bye . professor a : that 's not a lot of time , phd e : that 's that . professor a : but professor d : yeah . grad g : well , in answer to `` is it landay 's problem ? `` , um , he does n't have a student who 's interested right now in doing anything . so he has very little manpower . um , there 's very little allocated for him and also he 's pretty focused on user interface . so i do n't think he wants to do information retrieval , query generation , that sort of stuff . professor d : yeah , well there 's gon na be these student projects that can do some things but it ca n't be , yeah , very deep . u i i actually think that that , uh , again , just as a bootstrap , { comment } if we do have something like summaries , then having the people who are involved in the meetings themselves , who are cooperative and willing to do yet more , come up with with with queries , uh , could at least give give landay an idea of the kind of things that people might want to know . i mean , ye right ? if he does n't know anything about the area , and the people are talking about and and , uh phd b : but the people will just look at the summaries or the minutes and re and sort of back - generate the queries . that 's what i 'm worried about . so you might as well just give him the summaries . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : and professor d : maybe . phd f : well , i 'm not sure i 'm not sure that 's a solved problem . grad g : y well , but i think phd b : oh , ok . phd f : right ? of how to how to generate queries from a phd b : how to do this from the summary . professor d : yeah . grad g : i , uh phd f : that was sort of what my question was aimed towards . phd b : so what you want to h to do is , people who were there , who later see , uh , minutes and s put in summary form , which is not gon na be at the same time as the meeting . there 's no way that can happen . are we gon na later go over it professor d : right . grad g : right . phd b : and , like , make up some stuff to which these notes would be an answer , or or a deeper yeah . i mean grad g : or or just a memory refresher . phd b : but that 's done off they have to do that off - line . grad g : yep . i agree . postdoc h : i 'm also wondering if we could ask the the people a a question which would be `` what was the most interesting thing you got out of this meeting ? `` becau - in terms of like informativeness , phd b : that 's a good one . postdoc h : it might be , you know , that the summary would would not in even include what the person thought was the most interesting fact . professor d : i would think that would be the most likely thing . phd b : dan does n't know what sex he is . phd e : yeah , really . professor a : but actually i would say that 's a better thing to ask than have them summarize the meeting . postdoc h : i think you get two different types of information . professor a : you get two yeah , that 's true . phd e : yeah . postdoc h : because you get , like , the general structure of important points and what the what the meeting was about . professor d : yeah . grad g : we 're still here . postdoc h : so you get the general structure , the important points of what the meeting was about with the summary . but with the `` what 's the most interesting thing you learned ? `` uh , so the fact that , uh , i know that transcriber uses snack is something that i thought was interesting phd b : going to see the kids . phd e : you you can keep it on . postdoc h : and that and that dan worked on on that . so i thought that was really you know . so , i mean , you could ge pick up some of the micro items that would n't even occur as major headings professor a : mm - hmm . postdoc h : but could be very informative . professor a : yeah , that 's actually a really good idea . postdoc h : i think it would n't be too , uh , uh , cost - intensive either . you know , i mean , it 's like something someone can do pretty easily on the spur of the moment . professor c : are you thinking about just asking one participant or all of them ? grad g : as many are willing to do it . professor c : make it a voluntary thing , phd e : yeah . cuz you 'll get cuz you 'll get very different answers from everybody , right ? professor c : and then yeah . that 's why i was wondering . phd e : so grad g : well , maybe one thing we could do is for the meetings we 've already done i mean , i we did n't take minutes and we do n't have summaries . but , uh , people could , like , listen to them a little bit and generate some queries . postdoc h : yeah . grad g : of course jane does n't need to . i 'm sure you have that meeting memorized by now . phd e : yeah . professor a : but actually it would be an easy thing to just go around the room and say what was the most interesting thing you learned , postdoc h : yeah . yeah . professor a : for those pe people willing to stay . postdoc h : and that i think it would pick up the micro - structure , the some some of the little things that would be hidden . professor a : and and that might be something people are willing to stay for . professor d : boy , i i do n't know how we get at this postdoc h : that would be interesting . professor c : yeah , but when you go around the room you might just get the effect that somebody says something grad g : or want to get up and leave . professor c : and then you go around the room and they say `` yeah , me too , i agree . `` grad g : me too , me too , me too . professor d : yeah . professor a : that 's fine . professor c : so phd e : on the other hand people might try and come up with different ones , right ? professor d : well phd e : they might say `` oh , i was gon na say that one but now i have to think of something else `` . grad g : well , you have the other thing , that that they know why we 're doing it . we 'll i mean , we 'll we 'll be telling them that the reason we 're trying to do this is is to d generate queries in the future , so try to pick things that other people did n't say . professor d : it 's gon na take some thought . i mean , it seemed the kind of , uh , interest that i had in this thing initially was , uh , that i basically the form that you 're doing something else later , professor a : mm - hmm . professor d : and you want to pick up something from this meeting related to the something else . so it 's really the imp the the list of what 's important 's in the something else professor a : right . professor d : rather than the and it might be something minor of minor importance to the meeting . professor c : mm - hmm . grad g : right . professor d : uh , in fact if if it was really major , if it 's the thing that really stuck in your head , then you might not need to go back and and and check on it even . so it 's it 's that you 're trying to find { comment } you 're you 've now you were n't interested say i i said `` well , i was n't that much interested in dialogue , i 'm more of an acoustics person `` . phd e : right . professor d : but but thr three months from now if for some reason i get really interested in dialogue , and i 'm `` well what is what was that part that that that , uh , mari was saying ? `` grad g : yeah , like jim bass says `` add a few lines on dialogue in your next perf `` professor a : uh professor d : yeah . yeah . professor a : yeah . professor d : and then i 'm trying to fi i mean , that 's that 's when i look in general when i look things up most , is when it 's something that did n't really stick in my head the first time around and but for some { comment } new reason i 'm i 'm i 'm interested in in in the old stuff . grad g : but that that 's gon na be very hard to generate . professor a : well , i that 's hard to generate professor d : so , i do n't i do n't know . professor c : mm - hmm . phd f : do we professor a : and and i think that 's half of what i i would use it for . but i also a lot of times um , make you know , think to myself `` this is interesting , professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : i 've got ta come back and follow up on it `` . professor d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : so , things that i think are interesting , um , i would be , uh , wanting to do a query about . and also , i like the idea of going around the room , because if somebody else thought something was interesting , i 'd kind of want to know about it and then i 'd want to follow up on it . professor d : yeah . that that might get at some of what i was i was concerned about , uh , being interested in something later that w uh , i did n't consider to be important the first time , which for me is actually the dominant thing , because if i thought it was really important it tends to stick more than if i did n't , but some new task comes along that makes me want to look up . grad g : but but what 's interesting to me may not b have been interesting to you . professor d : yeah . so having multiple people might get at some of that . grad g : by so by going around yeah . professor d : yeah . grad g : yeah , i i think you ca n't get at all of it , professor d : yeah . </s>
<s> what did phd f think about generating queries ? </s> phd f : the question i had about queries was , um , so what we 're planning to do is have people look at the summaries and then generate queries ? are are we gon na try and o grad g : we we 've just been talking , how do we generate queries ? phd f : yeah . well , i mean , grad g : and so that was one suggestion . phd f : so , the question i had is is have we given any thought to how we would generate queries automatically given a summary ? i mean , i think that 's a whole research topic un unto itself , so that it may not be a feasible thing . but </s>
<s> what did phd b think about automatically generating queries ? </s> phd f : the question i had about queries was , um , so what we 're planning to do is have people look at the summaries and then generate queries ? are are we gon na try and o grad g : we we 've just been talking , how do we generate queries ? phd f : yeah . well , i mean , grad g : and so that was one suggestion . phd f : so , the question i had is is have we given any thought to how we would generate queries automatically given a summary ? i mean , i think that 's a whole research topic un unto itself , so that it may not be a feasible thing . but phd e : hello . dan here . phd b : should n't landay and his group be in charge of figuring out how to do this ? professor d : yeah . phd b : i mean , this is an issue that goes a little bit beyond where we are right now . they 're the expert phd e : mari ? professor a : yeah ? phd e : someone wants to know when you 're getting picked up . is someone picking you up ? professor a : um , what 's our schedule ? professor d : well , you still wanted to talk with liz . professor a : let 's see , you and i need dis uh , no , we did the liz talk . professor d : and you and i need to oh , oh . you already did the liz talk . professor a : yeah . so so that was the prosody thing . phd b : we - i do n't remember it . professor a : um , we need to finish the professor d : oh , ok . professor a : it 's already four - fifteen . phd b : i have like no recall memory . professor a : uh , after . professor d : yeah . professor a : we need to finish this discussion , and you and i need a little time for wrap - up and quad chart . so , grad g : and what ? professor a : um professor d : i 'm at your disposal . so , up to you . professor a : um , what what 's the plan for this discussion ? we should professor d : um , i think we should be able to wind up in another half - hour or something , you think ? grad g : at least . yeah . professor a : uh , less . grad g : m i even if that much ? professor a : yeah . professor d : less ? grad g : less . professor a : so , i think phd b : it 's interesting that he 's got , like , this discussion free professor d : well , i mean , we still have n't talked about the action items from here and so on . professor a : action yeah . so , phd b : yet it 's separate . professor d : and professor a : e e why do n't you say five - thirty ? i do n't phd e : ok , five - thirty . professor a : is that ok ? we 'll probably hit horrible traffic . phd e : sounds ok . h thanks , bye . professor a : that 's not a lot of time , phd e : that 's that . professor a : but professor d : yeah . grad g : well , in answer to `` is it landay 's problem ? `` , um , he does n't have a student who 's interested right now in doing anything . so he has very little manpower . um , there 's very little allocated for him and also he 's pretty focused on user interface . so i do n't think he wants to do information retrieval , query generation , that sort of stuff . professor d : yeah , well there 's gon na be these student projects that can do some things but it ca n't be , yeah , very deep . u i i actually think that that , uh , again , just as a bootstrap , { comment } if we do have something like summaries , then having the people who are involved in the meetings themselves , who are cooperative and willing to do yet more , come up with with with queries , uh , could at least give give landay an idea of the kind of things that people might want to know . i mean , ye right ? if he does n't know anything about the area , and the people are talking about and and , uh </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on diversity in speech data </s> postdoc h : now , i mean , you know , it 's true , i mean , we were discussing this earlier , that depending on the task so if you 've got someone giving a report you 're not gon na have as much overlap . phd f : adam ! postdoc h : but , um , i i uh , so we 're gon na have s you know , non - overlapping samples anyway . but , um , in a meeting which would otherwise be highly overlapping , is the near - field mike enough or should we have some rules of participation for some of our samples to lessen the overlap ? phd e : turn off professor a : i do n't think we should have rules of participation , but i think we should try to get a variety of meetings . that 's something that if we get the the meeting stuff going at uw , that i probably can do more than you guys , cuz you guys are probably mostly going to get icsi people here . but we can get anybody in ee , uh , over professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : and and possibly also some cs people , uh , over at uw . so , i think that that there 's a good chance we could get more variety . postdoc h : ok . just want to be sure there 's enough data to phd b : they 're still gon na overlap , postdoc h : ok , good . phd b : but mark and others have said that there 's quite a lot of found data { comment } from the discourse community that has this characteristic and also the political y you know , anything that was televised for a third party has the characteristic of not very much overlap . professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : mm - hmm . professor d : wasn - but w i think we were saying before also that the natural language group here had less overlap . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor d : so it also depends on the style of the group of people . professor a : right . phd b : like the , um , dominance relations of the people in the meeting . postdoc h : mm - hmm . on the task , and the task . grad g : mm - hmm . postdoc h : it 's just i just wanted to uh , professor d : yeah . postdoc h : because you know , it is true people can modify the amount of overlap that they do if if they 're asked to . professor d : yeah . postdoc h : not not entirely modify it , but lessen it if if it 's desired . but if if that 's sufficient data i just wanted to be sure that we will not be having a lot of data which ca n't be processed . professor a : ok . so i 'm just writing here , we 're not gon na try to specify rules of interaction but we 're gon na try to get more variety by i using different groups of people postdoc h : time . professor a : and different sizes . postdoc h : fine . and i you know , i i know that the near f near - field mikes will take care of also the problems to s to a certain degree . professor a : e e yeah . and then the other thing might be , um , uh , technical versus administrative . postdoc h : i just wanted to be sure . professor a : cuz if i recorded some administrative meetings then that may have less overlap , because you might have more overlap when you 're doing something technical and disagreeing or whatever . postdoc h : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . well , i just as as as a contributary eh , so i i know that in l in legal depositions people are pr are prevented from overlapping . they 'll just say , you know you know , `` wait till each person is finished before you say something `` . so it is possible to lessen if we wanted to . but but these other factors are fine . i just wanted to raise the issue . professor a : well , the reason why i did n't want to is be why i personally did n't want to { comment } is because i wanted it to be as , uh , unintrusive as possi postdoc h : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : as you could be with these things hanging on you . postdoc h : oh , yeah . yeah , i think that 's always desired . i just want to be sure we do n't that we 're able to process , i u uh , you know , as much data as we can . yeah . professor d : yeah . did they discuss any of that in the the meeting they had with l liberman ? phd b : mm - hmm . professor d : what phd b : and there was a big division , professor d : what what do they phd b : so liberman and others were interested in a lot of found data . professor d : yeah . phd b : so there 's lots of recordings that they 're not close - talk mike , professor d : yeah . phd b : but and and there 's lots of television , you know , stuff on , um , political debates and things like that , congre congressional hearings . boring stuff like that . um , and then the cmu folks and i were sort of on the other side in cuz they had collected a lot of meetings that were sort of like this and said that those are nothing like these meetings . um , so there 're really two different kinds of data . and , i guess we just left it as @ @ { comment } that if there 's found data that can be transformed for use in speech recognition easily , then of course we would do it , professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : but newly collected data would would be natural meetings . so . professor d : actually , th @ @ { comment } the cmu folk have collected a lot of data . is that is that going to be publicly available , phd b : as far as i know , they h have not . professor d : or ? phd b : um , but e grad g : it 's also it 's not it 's not near - far , right ? phd b : i 'm not sure . um , if people were interested they could talk to them , but i i got the feeling there was some politics involved . grad g : i think @ @ gon na add that to one of my action items . professor d : just to check . phd b : i i do n't know . professor d : yeah . w we should know what 's out there certainly . grad g : yeah . phd b : i mean , the professor d : yeah . grad g : cuz i had thought they 'd only done far - field , phd b : i think you need to talk to waibel and grad g : intelligent - room sorts of things . phd e : oh , really ? it 's those guys . grad g : i had n't known that then they 'd done any more than that . professor d : oh , they only did the far - field ? i see . grad g : yeah . phd b : but they had multiple mikes and they did do recognition , and they did do real conversations . but as far as i know they did n't offer that data to the community at this meeting . grad g : mm - hmm . phd b : but that could change cuz mark you know , mark 's really into this . we should keep in touch with him . professor d : yeah . well , once we send out postdoc h : yeah , i think professor d : i mean , we still have n't sent out the first note saying `` hey , this list exists `` . but but , uh , once we do that professor a : is that an action item ? professor d : yeah . it 's on i already added that one on my board to do that . so , uh uh , hopefully everybody here is on that list . we should at least check that everybody here ? grad g : i think everyone here is on the list . professor d : yeah . phd f : i 'm not . grad g : i think you are . professor d : we have n't sent anything to the list yet . phd f : oh ! ok . postdoc h : yeah . professor d : we 're just compiling the list . phd f : i see . grad g : i i added a few people who did n't who i knew had to be on it even though they did n't tell me . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : who specifically ask not to be . grad g : like jane , for example . professor d : yeah . grad g : you are on it , are n't you ? postdoc h : yeah , i am . professor d : yeah . postdoc h : so , i w uh , just just for clarification . so `` found data `` , they mean like established corpora of linguistics and and other fields , right ? phd b : what they mean is stuff they do n't have to fund to collect , postdoc h : it sounds like such a t phd b : and especially good postdoc h : yeah , ok . phd b : well , i mean , `` found `` has , uh , also the meaning that 's it very natural . it 's things occur without any you know , the pe these people were n't wearing close - talking mikes , but they were recorded anyway , like the congressional hearings and , you know , for legal purposes or whatever . postdoc h : ok . but it includes like standard corpora that have been used for years in linguistics and other fields . phd b : mark 's aware of those , too . phd e : `` hey , look what we found ! `` phd b : that would be found data because they found it and it exists . postdoc h : exactly . phd e : `` i found this great corpora . `` yeah . phd b : they did n't have to collect it . of course it 's not `` found `` in the sense that at the time it was collected for the purpose . grad g : `` psst . { comment } want to buy a corpora ? `` postdoc h : yeah . ok , ok . phd b : but what he means is that you know , mark was really a fan of getting as much data as possible from you know , reams and reams of stuff , of broadcast stuff , postdoc h : that 's interesting . phd b : web stuff , postdoc h : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did phd b think about meeting diversity ? </s> phd b : they 're still gon na overlap , postdoc h : ok , good . phd b : but mark and others have said that there 's quite a lot of found data { comment } from the discourse community that has this characteristic and also the political y you know , anything that was televised for a third party has the characteristic of not very much overlap . professor d : mm - hmm . professor a : mm - hmm . professor d : wasn - but w i think we were saying before also that the natural language group here had less overlap . postdoc h : mm - hmm . professor d : so it also depends on the style of the group of people . professor a : right . phd b : like the , um , dominance relations of the people in the meeting . postdoc h : mm - hmm . on the task , and the task . grad g : mm - hmm . postdoc h : it 's just i just wanted to uh , professor d : yeah . postdoc h : because you know , it is true people can modify the amount of overlap that they do if if they 're asked to . professor d : yeah . postdoc h : not not entirely modify it , but lessen it if if it 's desired . but if if that 's sufficient data i just wanted to be sure that we will not be having a lot of data which ca n't be processed . professor a : ok . so i 'm just writing here , we 're not gon na try to specify rules of interaction but we 're gon na try to get more variety by i using different groups of people postdoc h : time . professor a : and different sizes . postdoc h : fine . and i you know , i i know that the near f near - field mikes will take care of also the problems to s to a certain degree . professor a : e e yeah . and then the other thing might be , um , uh , technical versus administrative . postdoc h : i just wanted to be sure . professor a : cuz if i recorded some administrative meetings then that may have less overlap , because you might have more overlap when you 're doing something technical and disagreeing or whatever . postdoc h : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . well , i just as as as a contributary eh , so i i know that in l in legal depositions people are pr are prevented from overlapping . they 'll just say , you know you know , `` wait till each person is finished before you say something `` . so it is possible to lessen if we wanted to . but but these other factors are fine . i just wanted to raise the issue . professor a : well , the reason why i did n't want to is be why i personally did n't want to { comment } is because i wanted it to be as , uh , unintrusive as possi postdoc h : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : as you could be with these things hanging on you . postdoc h : oh , yeah . yeah , i think that 's always desired . i just want to be sure we do n't that we 're able to process , i u uh , you know , as much data as we can . yeah . professor d : yeah . did they discuss any of that in the the meeting they had with l liberman ? phd b : mm - hmm . professor d : what phd b : and there was a big division , professor d : what what do they phd b : so liberman and others were interested in a lot of found data . professor d : yeah . phd b : so there 's lots of recordings that they 're not close - talk mike , professor d : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about politics around collected data ? </s> professor d : actually , th @ @ { comment } the cmu folk have collected a lot of data . is that is that going to be publicly available , phd b : as far as i know , they h have not . professor d : or ? phd b : um , but e grad g : it 's also it 's not it 's not near - far , right ? phd b : i 'm not sure . um , if people were interested they could talk to them , but i i got the feeling there was some politics involved . grad g : i think @ @ gon na add that to one of my action items . professor d : just to check . phd b : i i do n't know . professor d : yeah . w we should know what 's out there certainly . grad g : yeah . phd b : i mean , the professor d : yeah . grad g : cuz i had thought they 'd only done far - field , phd b : i think you need to talk to waibel and grad g : intelligent - room sorts of things . phd e : oh , really ? it 's those guys . grad g : i had n't known that then they 'd done any more than that . professor d : oh , they only did the far - field ? i see . grad g : yeah . phd b : but they had multiple mikes and they did do recognition , and they did do real conversations . but as far as i know they did n't offer that data to the community at this meeting . grad g : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay , all set ? welcome to the conceptual design meeting . user interface : uh , okay . project manager : the agenda . the opening . i 'll again be the secretary and make minutes , take minutes , uh and it will be three presentations , just like the last meeting . so um , who wants to start off ? technical uh designer again ? user interface : again . project manager : okay . uh , yeah . uh , before we begin it , i want to say i 've i 've put the minutes of the uh second meeting in the shared folder , but they 're still not uh quite okay . it uh it uh still some technical difficulties so the the first part of the minutes are very hard to read , because there are two documents that uh were layered over each other . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : project manager : so marketing : okay . project manager : but uh , from now on i wo n't use my pen anymore , so will be p just ordinary keyboard . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : uh , may be better , yeah . marketing : keyboard work . yeah . project manager : i think it will will be more uh easy for you to read the minutes . user interface : yeah . marketing : alright . industrial designer : okay , when we talk about uh components design , um it 's really about the material and the and uh uh really the stuff we build uh the remote controls of . um , a remote control consist of uh components and the components of a remote control consist of uh properties and material . we have to choose th uh these uh wisely and it could affect uh uh a kind of grow of in uh in buying uh the remote controls . um , the components of a remote control are of course uh the case . uh the properties of the case , um it has to be solid uh in hard material like uh hard plastic uh with soft rubber for uh falling and and uh uh yeah , it feels uh good in your hand . marketing : industrial designer : mm the buttons has to be uh solid too , and the material is soft rubber . uh i 've got a uh email from the possibilities of real reaction . um uh they 're telling me that um when we build uh a remote control of um of plastic or rubber , the uh buttons have to be uh rubber too . mm it 's okay . yeah . i when we use a rubbled a doubled curved case , we must use a rubber push-buttons to uh the the rubber double-curved case is a is a t uh three-dimensional uh curve in the in the design , which is uh necessary when we want to be trendy . uh um the energy source , uh i 've got a lot of possibilities for that too . um , uh the basic battery , which i thi prefer because of its uh its non uh non-depending of of of uh um uh here you have to have a hand uh yeah , kinetic uh energy . also in uh this one , like in the watches , but a remote control can lie on a table for a day , and then you push uh a button and so you do n't have to uh walk with it all the all the time . mm , solar cells are also uh a bit weird for uh remote controls . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : um uh also the case material , uh i think that plastic is the is the best with rubber , because uh wood or titanium would also be a bit weird . user interface : oh titanium is probably trendy , i think . . marketing : that 's true , i guess . yeah . user interface : well , maybe a little bit expensive . marketing : user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : uh , they do n't tell anything about the cost of uh titanium . um the chip uh the chip set uh and the board is uh all off the shelf . also , the speaker in the remote control , when we want to retrieve it . um , the base station is also off the shelf , all the materials and the components are uh just available in uh in our uh factory . mm , i 've told about uh the three first points . mm , the simple electronical chip uh is is available uh with the led transmitter uh transmitter . uh , it 's all uh off the shelf and even the speaker and the wireless retriever are all uh available in our company . um , another possibility . i uh yeah , i looked up on was uh the lcd displays . could be uh something special to our uh remote control , and it 's possible , but it only cost a bit more , but maybe it can be uh within the limits of twenty five euros . project manager : twelve and a half . actually industrial designer : ah yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , production cost . industrial designer : i th i got an email with uh some examples and it these were were the most trendiest one . user interface : industrial designer : you see uh a covers , which can be project manager : what are those , t tooth uh brushes , or so user interface : industrial designer : um , i do n't know . um marketing : project manager : but it 's actually kind of uh user interface : i project manager : well , it resembles the design i had in mind for this proj you know the the cartoonish alessi kind of design . industrial designer : yes , maybe we can uh bri uh bring a couple of uh couple of types of uh project manager : and we can we can steal their ideas . marketing : industrial designer : maybe a kind of uh whole uh um a whole set of uh different uh remote controls . maybe we can bring a whole line uh with uh with a huge variety of uh project manager : well , it 's a possibility , too . industrial designer : uh house uh stuff . user interface : different colours also . industrial designer : like uh maybe radios and uh television also uh in this in this in the same style , but project manager : uh-uh . marketing : yeah , that 'll be for the future , i guess . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : next time we 're here . industrial designer : yes , because we have to uh we have to we have to bring the logo and all the stuff uh back into it . marketing : yeah . project manager : oh , okay . marketing : yeah . definitely . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . marketing : alright . user interface : uh marketing : yeah . that 's okay . user interface : well , i shall go to the next slide . um marketing : user interface : um , i still do n't have any information about user requirements . marketing : user interface : i was thinking about just uh the basic functions and i got uh project manager : oh , we decided upon that in the last meeting . did n't we ? user interface : yeah , but but then wh i do n't know when there are new user requirements . project manager : oh , okay . well , tha i did n't receive any new requirements or somethi user interface : i ha i ha i have the i have project manager : just user interface : nothing . project manager : no , but we decided to use only b basic functions only . user interface : well , i have here a couple of basic functions i could think of . project manager : okay . user interface : i dunno if they 're maybe a little bit more , but project manager : well we maybe we can think of that later . w just user interface : yeah . project manager : these are the ones you already summed up in the user interface : yeah , i i uh well , i pointed them out here , just to make it a little bit easier . project manager : okay . user interface : um another function uh is of course we already discuss it on the side . um , i do n't know what costs of it . uh , i 've no idea about it . uh , i was also looking for what you said , for i got an email uh uh about uh lcd in in in front of the remote control . i do n't know if that 's a good idea , or maybe it 's a little bit too much for twelve and a half . production . project manager : yeah . user interface : if we got already uh something like a base . industrial designer : uh-huh . project manager : that might get redundant also maybe . i do n't know what kind of information it would user interface : yeah , i do n't know . i d i uh ju i was just thinking about it . then i got a pop-ups to go to the meeting . but marketing : mm yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah , it 's okay . industrial designer : maybe we can bring t uh uh teletext to the t to the remote control . user interface : the remote control . marketing : then you project manager : user interface : a little uh too a little bit marketing : and then you 've got a flag s very big r_c_ . yeah . project manager : okay . that 's not it was not a good idea . user interface : a little bit too big , i think . exactly . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : okay . user interface : um , yeah . well , the functions are are not more to discuss , i think . project manager : no . no . user interface : it 's it 's just the base things we already discussed that the no v_c_r_ or that kind of uh , so that 's very easy . um project manager : but you do mention the next and previous uh button . user interface : mm-hmm . well , that 's next channel . i mean next channel . marketing : next channel , previous channel . project manager : oh , okay , o okay okay . user interface : uh um oh , i i got an email with with an uh a remote control with a base . so , it 's uh just an idea . and i um uh thinked of the button sizes and i 'm not sure uh if they have to be big or uh just small industrial designer : but you 're the expert . marketing : i think it depends on the function . user interface : well , i 'm not a e i 'm the expert for user-friendly , but not for trendiness . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : maybe it marketing : well , if you save uh perhaps uh s tiny buttons are n't user-friendly , then we would n't im implement that of course . project manager : user interface : well uh industrial designer : marketing : user interface : okay , that 's your point . um , yeah . yeah , okay . marketing : user interface : yeah , i 've nothing to s industrial designer : project manager : well , w when we only use basic functions , we have the possibility to make the buttons larger . marketing : oh , that 's right . user interface : uh , with a little bit larger , yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : i thought so , but maybe with the project manager : well , i think we already agreed upon the fact that the the the skip buttons and the cha and the volume buttons , th th those two have yeah , they have to be large . user interface : yeah , that groups . project manager : uh , i mean th th the the two two basic buttons , you know , the to skip channels and to uh user interface : large ? yeah . project manager : i think yeah , i do n't know why , but i think that is that 's t trendy too , user interface : most the most used uh buttons . marketing : those are probably the the th project manager : because that 's the mo it it you know , it 's uh acc acc um accentu uh , how do you say it ? it puts an extra accent on the the on the simplicity of our remotes to j to make these two most basic functions extra big , like t user interface : true . yeah . marketing : those are probably the b four most most used buttons on the th in the remote control . project manager : yeah . and you want to acc accentuate that , you know . industrial designer : you did the research . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it 's from your research . marketing : sorry ? yeah , sure . project manager : so user interface : okay . uh , that was all y industrial designer : user interface : uh personal preference i did n't have . project manager : okay . user interface : i did n't had any time left . project manager : no uh , that 's coo it 's cool . industrial designer : marketing : you do n't care . no , sorry . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : oh . go away . user interface : it 's there . marketing : come on . user interface : yeah , click on it . marketing : . user interface : couple time . marketing : oh , great . well , i 've done some research again about trends on the internet . um i 've done some investigation , and uh well i uh got some information from fashion watchers from paris and uh milan . some uh some findings the most important thing is fancy look and feel of the remote control . uh , well , we were going to imply that , so that 's nice . the second important thing is uh innovative technology in the r_c_ . uh , our market really likes really likes that . and uh the third point there in this uh order if of importance , the third point , is a high ease of use . and uh , well , for the idea , i 've put some trends uh for the market of elderly people . industrial designer : marketing : dark colours , simple recognisable shapes . so we probably wo n't do that . user interface : marketing : the younger market likes uh well , the themes of of this year are uh surprisingly fruits and vegetables and spongy material . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : i found this image , which is uh well , it symbolises the idea of fruits and vegetables . i do n't see the spongy part in it . but with a little bit of fancy project manager : well maybe c then we have to do something with sponge bob then . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : exactly . i got some ideas user interface : marketing : uh well , yeah , pictures is n't really good word , but um industrial designer : marketing : some symbols of fruits or vegetables maybe . uh , catchy colours . industrial designer : marketing : fruit is uh yellow , green , red , whatever . user interface : marketing : so , remote controls in in catchy colours . project manager : it does n't stroke with the with the dark colours . marketing : uh , no , we do n't want dark colours . project manager : not the dark colours ? okay . marketing : no , i just put them there to uh , yeah , uh for general idea . project manager : okay . marketing : and uh , the docking st industrial designer : marketing : uh i think the spongy material is is very irritating for the uh remote control itself . but to industrial designer : marketing : yeah , the to implement some spongy thing , maybe we can do it in the in the docking station . at the bottom of the docking station or whatever . and uh , we could bring one line with a dark colour uh to um uh p uh yeah industrial designer : marketing : uh uh v how do you say ? project manager : for diversity or something . uh marketing : yeah , also a bit for elderly people who are a little bit crazy and want maybe want a little younger design but still the dark colour . user interface : well , how uh industrial designer : marketing : i mean it it it reaches a different market uh , but it it it does n't cost really much effort to b to uh bring uh like a black r_c_ on the market or whatever . yes . user interface : but how do we use uh fruits and vegetables in christ 's sake with remote control ? industrial designer : project manager : no , but i i i think that uh our design already resembles so a piece of fruit . marketing : yeah , there 's there 's always a user interface : uh , make it a banana ? project manager : it 's like a pear or something . user interface : marketing : well there there 's always empty space of course on a remote control . i mean i think this part of the r_c_ uh well the upper the upper part or whatever is uh is not not used with buttons , i guess . project manager : no , i do n't think you have to do it like industrial designer : user interface : marketing : so you you can put some fruity things project manager : yeah , but it that does n't have to remind you , you know , like explicitly of s our f of a of a specific piece of fruit , but just , you know , like the the the the round curves . industrial designer : marketing : no , of course not . project manager : and so y i i think this y it already sem resembles uh something like a pear to me or something . marketing : especially i user interface : yeah , but th yeah , but that marketing : yeah , yeah . yeah , exactly . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , but that 's marketing : if we make it little bit greenish . project manager : you do get the idea , eh ? the fruity kind of round user interface : yeah uh uh project manager : 'kay . marketing : a and we could use one of these for the uh w what is it ? project manager : yeah , uh yeah , i do n't know . industrial designer : grapes . marketing : uh industrial designer : project manager : uh , this is a b yeah . marketing : is n't wha whatever . user interface : but d do n't we need a creative artist or something like that to m make it to feel like a a a a vegetable or fruit ? industrial designer : project manager : yeah , yeah . of course we have uh marketing : yeah , sure . project manager : we have a very big uh the s marketing : yeah . well , w we can uh w we can we can produce multiple uh multiple things . industrial designer : for a big team of artists . project manager : of d design team , yeah . user interface : marketing : this is then the uh pear . i do n't know the english word , so forget it . project manager : yeah , but it 's pear , i guess . marketing : and um , maybe , yeah , a b a banana is uh is n not easy for a remote control , but m yeah . industrial designer : but uh but i think we do n't have to make project manager : no . industrial designer : we ca n't make all uh ten designs . we have to make one design i th i i think . project manager : no , but i think it 's it 's already what we were were up to . marketing : mayb maybe two or three . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh , it 's it does n't have to resemble uh what i already said , a specific piece of fruit , but just , you know , like a fruity thing going on . marketing : yeah . no sure , but but project manager : and it 's it looks fruity to me . user interface : marketing : b but that 's great , and and and what i was project manager : and uh , but i do like the marketing : what what i was saying , the catchy colours project manager : yeah , i do like uh the f uh to the idea of making a a y uh , a catchy colour design and a d because i do i think a dark colour would be nice too . industrial designer : but pictures of fruit , vegetables vegetables marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe it 's too much , you know . user interface : but , we we have to um there have to be the the the the firm colours , our own uh colours has to be in it . marketing : yeah , uh not really . pictures was a was a bad word , but project manager : okay , but what are the this is yellow . marketing : well we c yeah . user interface : yellow , a real reaction . industrial designer : yes , you can put a logo on top of it . project manager : but i do n't think our our company colours are this fashionable . marketing : yeah , sure . user interface : uh , yeah . marketing : maybe we can if if we got our docking station over here . user interface : we uh f industrial designer : yes , it 's really fruity . marketing : i ca n't draw with this thing , but i 'll try . user interface : a yellow do marketing : if this is our docking station , we can make our logo over here . user interface : uh , yeah . marketing : it does n't work . and then user interface : yeah , and the button then . industrial designer : with a strawberry on top . project manager : yeah , on uh n uh on the bottom of the remote you can do marketing : well , the button button over here or whatever , user interface : okay , yeah . marketing : i do n't know . on the front , of course , because else you ca n't find it . user interface : okay . marketing : well , that were my ideas a little bit . project manager : okay . marketing : i 'll close 'em down . um , go away . project manager : okay , you can you open the conceptual design presentation ? marketing : conceptual design , yes . project manager : see what was on the agenda . user interface : lazy . marketing : the agenda . project manager : this is his own remote . because um , maybe we can start with the technical uh functions , user interface : yeah . project manager : but i do n't think it 's there uh , yeah um , do we want to um use an lcd display , for example ? marketing : well , it 's nice , of course . but i do n't i do n't know what to display on it . industrial designer : only if we project manager : me neither . industrial designer : maybe maybe we can make a tv guide on it , for the channel you 're on . marketing : i mean project manager : yeah , but it 's so marketing : yeah , but it should be li like this big , and i do n't think industrial designer : no , no , only the tv channel with the with uh with uh four programmes . project manager : i do n't think we should do it . industrial designer : you can uh zap through them with the page up page down button . marketing : yes sure , but it it has to to show an entire title of a programme or at least a q a quite quite large part of it and then you get a very large lcd screen , because industrial designer : yes , it can on your no , on your mobile phone you can y you can read text also . so why not on your remote ? project manager : yeah , but no . i do i think it 's a bit redundant , actually . marketing : yeah , i do n't know . project manager : and it 's also not i do n't th even think it it looks s like sexy or something , user interface : well well what would you display on it then ? project manager : it 's industrial designer : uh , programme uh information or or or or g or a guide marketing : programme information . user interface : but is it is n't that a already on tv , a lot of new tvs ? marketing : but industrial designer : on t on teletext , yes . also on the internet . marketing : well a lot a lot of tvs indeed show uh when you uh zap to a industrial designer : but project manager : but you 're already watching the tv , you 're not gon na watch your remote control . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yes , but you also want to know what 's next . marketing : but then we also uh w need to bring out a line of tvs which we were planning to , user interface : yeah , project manager : user interface : and we also have to yeah . marketing : but whatever . because the tv has to send information back to the r_c_ , and i do n't know if that 's possible . industrial designer : yes , that 's uh really possible . project manager : marketing : yes , yes , o of course it 's possible , user interface : marketing : but you got ta uh implement it in the tvs , and i do n't think everyone 's gon na buy a real reaction tv within a month after the release of our uh remote control . industrial designer : project manager : i really understand you want to make your job more exciting by putting an lcd in it , user interface : and i also industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : but i i really do n't think it 's a good n goo because it also does n't stroke with we wanted uh c when we talk about the materials , uh it 's a good idea to use these plastic materials with soft rubber stuff on it . it was our idea , you know , to give it a more sturdy look and that you ca like you can throw with it . marketing : yeah . project manager : but i do n't think a lcd display fits in that image . you know , it 's like more vulnerable , and it adds nothing really , you know . marketing : that 's true , that 's true , it breaks f yeah , it it it 's not very solid , it 's uh frag fragile . project manager : yeah , yeah . you could make it , but it 's just it it does n't i do n't think it it 's coherent with the design we 're after . marketing : no . no . i do n't think so ei either . project manager : but that 's my opinion . well , you you y okay , we can vote for it . you want the lcd display . i do n't want to and he does n't , so it 's up to him . industrial designer : no . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : if we wan na user interface : yeah , i dunno . marketing : . ah . industrial designer : project manager : and i 've read somewhere that i 've got some kind of veto veto uh rights . user interface : . oh , okay . industrial designer : marketing : bastard . project manager : so i can also say user interface : we can you away . project manager : but did we skip the yeah , you could do marketing : project manager : m but what what i so what i but do you think we should user interface : yeah , i do n't know . uh , uh i i if it 's it 's a simple p project manager : we 're not even sure what what information we want to display on it . so user interface : no , that that 's right , industrial designer : no uh um user interface : and uh i also have to think about new functions , maybe buttons or something like that to control it . kind of lcd or something or industrial designer : y yes , you can use uh buttons uh uh w that are already uh on the remote control for double functions . marketing : yeah , i guess . user interface : but how does it display then ? w when i go to the second channel , what what does it show me ? industrial designer : uh , then you push a button . the title and the information about the programme . user interface : about that programme ? industrial designer : but but uh yeah , what he said was right , about the televisions , they have to be uh customised to the project manager : nah , that 's not gon na work . industrial designer : but maybe in future it will be a giant hit , and when you are the first project manager : yeah . oh , well uh i 've seen it done before . industrial designer : you have the biggest uh project manager : do you know th like the the bigger rem uh universal remotes , they have d lcd displays , user interface : yeah . project manager : but then it 's very functional to indicate which what uh uh device you are controlling . so it 's that that 's what i 've seen . industrial designer : yes , you can put uh a little lcd display on it with uh with lots of information . marketing : yeah , that 's true , if you uh yeah . project manager : but it just it j it does n't does n't match with the our whole basic concept . industrial designer : but uh i have n't thought about it . but whe but when you put a a a transparent uh plastic uh uh screen on top of it , it i it is n't vulnerable . project manager : well yeah , yeah , okay . that 's maybe not the most important , industrial designer : you can throw with it and project manager : but it 's just user interface : is it fashion ? project manager : i do n't think so . industrial designer : when when you put uh maybe a colour lcd t uh screen on it , it 's very special and very trendy to have uh a remote control from user interface : i do n't know . that 's not up to you . that 's up to market if i if it 's trendy . project manager : yeah , well do you ha do you have to you have n't looked after the trendiness of lcd displays , have you ? marketing : no . industrial designer : user interface : because our our motto is we put fashion marketing : well , i think it 's uh i think it 's pretty trendy , to be honest , uh but um i do n't know if if if well , i 'm coming back to the costs again , but i think uh we got ta build a b pretty cheap design to to stay within our limits . and i think uh especially colour lcd , which is indeed pretty trendy . but i do n't think uh , i think it will be too expensive . industrial designer : but uh i 've got a the email with uh with the possibilities . and lcd was a possibility for the remote control . project manager : user interface : project manager : yeah yeah yeah . industrial designer : so why do n't we use it . project manager : yeah , but we 're gon na if it marketing : uh , did it say a price also uh for for uh monogramme uh lcd or uh coloured lcd ? user interface : yeah , if you want to be trendy you have to be coloured . coloured marketing : yeah really , user interface : if you have black and white or something , or grey , that 's marketing : if y if you c i project manager : then uh then you better do n't yeah , d marketing : i in in two thousand and four you ca n't uh put something on the market which is a monogramme . project manager : user interface : marketing : really . industrial designer : no , but it does n't sa say anything about a colour or but , mm , i alf i also got a possibility to put uh a scroll button on it . but project manager : uh uh i really do n't feel the whole idea of an lcd display . industrial designer : i did n't think that project manager : i 'm sorry . it ca n't co you can not convince me . i do n't know how well how to with you guys , but i do n't really feel it . we already we 're uh user interface : it 's too much uh maybe uh with with the lcd and the docking station and project manager : yeah , we already have the the th th th base station gadgets , marketing : yeah . project manager : and want and it uh uh , do it has to be a simple design , which sturdy , which soft industrial designer : yes , but o on the marketing : w we 've we 've got ta find a balance , of course . user interface : with one thing special . marketing : and i think user interface : not a whole package of specialty . project manager : i do n't think i j uh , and really , i do n't see how the the lcd display is gon na add anything , you know , on a design level . uh , i think it 's slicker to have no l_ ceds . industrial designer : no , when y project manager : y we want to it 's simplicity , w you have two big buttons and you can do whatever you want with these two buttons , so you do n't need an lcd . industrial designer : but it look yes , but that remote controls are already on the market . the simple project manager : it does n't fit in our philosophy uh behind the whole remote . industrial designer : yes , but but when you want to have something special project manager : yeah , but we already have the docking station , which is industrial designer : yes , but you had a picture of it from another company . user interface : and uh the marketing : we have a pear . project manager : it has to be developed , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : but no , but it that 's industrial designer : project manager : that 's our that 's our killer feature . user interface : it 's just an it 's just an idea . marketing : project manager : that 's our what makes it special . user interface : it 's a it 's industrial designer : yes , it was already made . tha the remote control on the docking station . project manager : yeah , we 're gon na develop our own r n docking station . user interface : true . marketing : is that so ? was it it was n't just a prototype ? user interface : well uh i uh industrial designer : yes , he have a picture of it . project manager : user interface : yeah , i dunno . industrial designer : marketing : exactly , i 've never seen it in a store . project manager : uh , but re we really have to cut this off , user interface : project manager : i re i know you i i i i i get the idea you really like it , you know , the the lcd thing , but i i think it 's it 's not a good idea , and we have already mentioned all the arguments . i do n't uh , do you guys agre how do you guys think ? i d user interface : no , it 's too much . marketing : i think it 's a little too much , yeah . user interface : it 's overdone . project manager : okay , we s skip the lcd display . user interface : industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : i 'm sorry , maybe you can do something if we are at your own place , or make it make it make it happen in your basement or something . user interface : democratically . industrial designer : marketing : no . user interface : industrial designer : mayb marketing : . project manager : but industrial designer : i will rule the world with it . project manager : probably so . marketing : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . but for the technical part . the m material , i think uh it was a good idea to use the plastic and uh the rubber . uh industrial designer : yes , maybe a bit of a cushion is project manager : yeah yeah yeah , p exactly . this is what it w yeah , but it it was already what we 're uh we 're after , you know , to give it uh , you know , the soft touch in your hands marketing : yeah , for the spongy uh feel . yeah . user interface : with a spongy bob feel . project manager : and also to , know , like user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , that is y the b airbag kind of thing . industrial designer : like a b yes . project manager : you can st throw it at your little brother 's head . user interface : yeah , you just can drop it . yeah . marketing : yeah , airbag . if you drop it if you drop it the airbag comes out , yeah . project manager : yeah . no no no , not that comfy . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : maybe it marketing : industrial designer : but then we have to look that it uh w uh will not um be too childish to see . project manager : yeah yeah . yeah . okay , that 's a that 's a good point . and that 's why i like the dark t col dark colour bit , you know , because it may be the design uh , it 's uh maybe it is a bit of the marketing : yeah . user interface : but not black i think . project manager : it 's a bit nineties maybe , what we 're what we 're up to rat fun to this point . user interface : well if if it 's fruit and vegetables , it have to be colourful . project manager : yeah , that 's that 's true , but but it has to be a little big solid . marketing : yeah , b yeah , that 's what w i i was pointing at . user interface : but can we ge uh uh project manager : it must n't be too , n you know , th too overwhelming , then when you put it on your just user interface : can we combine it or something ? uh with uh yellow and black ? project manager : yeah . yeah , maybe so . user interface : make it a bee ? a bee . marketing : what ? oh , a bee . oh . project manager : no , uh i do n't like the yellow and black combination . but it is our company colours . apparently . user interface : yeah , it 's our yeah . we we have to use yellow . industrial designer : yes , real real good colours . project manager : marketing : yeah . hmm . project manager : i do n't like yellow , and uh maybe i do n't know . marketing : well , we can as as i industrial designer : but that 's not really fruity . marketing : draw really nicely over there . we can put the logo on our uh on our base station . uh , yeah . and maybe very very tiny on the remote control itself . project manager : but marketing : but , i project manager : okay , but what uh , what are other tef technical things we have to discuss ? user interface : project manager : industrial designer : uh fronts of the we can have uh different uh uh fronts of the project manager : should we do that ? industrial designer : telephone . project manager : i do n't think you we should do that . maybe just bring it out in different colours , user interface : different fronts . project manager : but not af that you can switch fronts afterwards , that 's also too much . marketing : yeah . i guess that 's that 's enough . project manager : people do n't wan na spend more money on their remote control , i guess . marketing : that 's way too nokia . user interface : yeah . uh , you can you can l uh let choose the customer which colour he wants , yeah . industrial designer : are these designs ? project manager : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah , definitely . just bring more designs on the market . user interface : yeah , three three or four uh four uh colours , or something like that . project manager : but uh , without gon uh marketing : why not , yeah . project manager : okay . so , are we through the technical part then ? okay . so we uh agreed upon uh n uh well , not u unanimously or how you call it , but yeah . user interface : well , yeah , industrial designer : it this a real uh young young and dynamic uh uh styles . user interface : the three to one . that 's project manager : the materials you uh mentioned in your your personal preferences were all were quite okay . industrial designer : yes . project manager : o o only only the last point your user interface : and tita uh titanium , is uh is is it a no ? industrial designer : yes , project manager : no titanium 's not not out of question , i guess . user interface : is it 's just like that , th this titanium . industrial designer : but also w yes , b bu but when we use s soft project manager : but is it possible to use both the the plastic and so uh soft things and t p titanium , as well ? industrial designer : mm marketing : sure . project manager : makes it in a homogeneous uh design . user interface : no , not all , not all of them . industrial designer : but it it then it uh you ca n't throw it it . it will uh make a huge noise or break other stuff project manager : it will it will break other stuff w when it 's plastic , as well . industrial designer : when you throw with uh titanium with your remote control . user interface : industrial designer : no uh , marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : titanium is a bit uh it 's a bit harder . marketing : yeah , that 's true . project manager : no , but uh uh , you should ma yeah . industrial designer : but also on the colours , the young project manager : okay , think of the possibilities and make it in completely titanium . well would it be more trendy ? more chic ? marketing : yeah , i think it i think it does . user interface : uh , i think titanium nowadays is way more often used than plastic . industrial designer : yes , but a titanium remote control , when you 're uh watching tv uh or your hands are a little bit sweaty , and the user interface : in trendy things . marketing : yeah , o on the other hand , if you want to make fruit fruity stuff with uh user interface : yeah . it 's cold in the winter . project manager : yeah , but i i really like the idea of the the the plastic and the big kind of thing . industrial designer : yes . project manager : but the question is i then it 's , you know , is is it fits in our s philosophy to make it uh sturdy and simple and uh , know , like uh user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , that 's true , that 's true . industrial designer : sports and gaming . define project manager : when you make it titanium , it becomes more like some kind of gadget you actually do n't need . and when it 's big and plastic , it 's like some fun stuff you can always have around . it 's always fun to have something big and plastic around . user interface : you have that uh m_p_ three player of nike , i saw . marketing : yes . yeah . user interface : is n't that titanium with a little bit of rubber ? industrial designer : yes , it 's w but it is uh plastic . user interface : is n't it is plastic ? well , it 's titanium looking . industrial designer : yes , w we can do that on the on the marketing : what ? user interface : yeah , he is . here he is . uh , the i do n't know if you know the m_p_ three player of nike . 'kay , uh that that 's very uh with rubber , so it 's very marketing : oh , yeah . okay , yeah . project manager : yeah , that 's beautiful . marketing : yeah , i see . industrial designer : we can make this as a style too . marketing : yeah , but but but user interface : rough . industrial designer : uh , this is uh just a project manager : oh , maybe th maybe this is an marketing : yeah , i th i think that 's difficult , because uh that 's different material , and then you got ta have like uh uh uh two material lines of of of industrial designer : no , we c we can make it from the same kind of plastic . marketing : yeah , if it 's just a colour uh which you uh which you change then , i guess it 's it 's nice to have one of these . project manager : no , i do like the idea of maybe a t titanium kind type of body w and then with s plastic colouration around it . industrial designer : uh marketing : uh project manager : you know , like the the soft stuff , marketing : yeah . project manager : but i do n't know if it 's possible . industrial designer : i do n't have the information . uh , i i did n't got it project manager : but you ca n't make the plastic give uh the ti titanium look . user interface : true . project manager : but make it just like shiny . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah yeah , true . project manager : maybe we should uh shou industrial designer : like the m_p_ three player . user interface : yeah , maybe that 's good idea , yeah . but if you want to la uh yeah , last longer than two weeks or something like that , you can maybe marketing : yeah . project manager : and uh and marketing : project manager : maybe we sh should we t i do n't know if we should talk about uh , how how much time have we got left ? industrial designer : uh , in a lot of other uh user interface : i do n't know . project manager : forty minutes . user interface : what time does industrial designer : in a lot of other product uh categories like uh even in b in bags industry . uh , they began with uh t typical uh leather bags , but then they became stylish , with all all si all sort of colours , and w kind of fon of uh of fronts , like we can use on the telephone and it marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : like eastpack uh began a revolution with it with all this uh kind of bags and and colours and and project manager : you putting in different colours . industrial designer : yes , and and styles . project manager : okay . industrial designer : they have uh also uh a kind of uh um uh roses on it , a and uh marketing : uh yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . yeah , but w yeah . user interface : project manager : well , it is . it 's a possibility . but , let 's think about the bas industrial designer : then we can always uh use the same design for a greater resemblance , but with new uh with new colours , new marketing : yes . new prints on it . yep . project manager : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . but wha th our basic idea y i mean , you gon na we 're probably gon na have like two type of materials , like the d d b the plastic uh enclosure and then the the pads that surround it . and and pro and lights . we have to incorporate the lights too . but , uh do w gon na gon na are we going to give it a two-tone colour look , like the the plastic mould is in in one colour and the s the cushion pads around it are in another colour ? is that the idea ? is that a good idea ? marketing : how do you mean ? th th the uh base in a in another project manager : how many colours are we how many colours are we gon na we 're uh uh f uh f user interface : the rubber . project manager : only five minutes left , by the way . how many colours are we gon na give it ? like two-tone colour ? t industrial designer : there there are three uh components three components type . user interface : yeah . uh no , not too much i think . industrial designer : you have the buttons , the the case uh itself , and the rubber and th marketing : how the buttons yeah . project manager : i think maybe the case itself should be in one colour and then the rubber of the buttons , and the cushions as well should be in another colour . user interface : or you just make uh one colour , uh maybe with a a z a kind of like a big wave or something like uh marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , but not more than user interface : in in another colour . project manager : well , yeah , it 's user interface : not more than two colours i think . it 's a g a little bit too flashy . marketing : no , definitely not . project manager : maybe we should talk about it on a l in a later meeting . industrial designer : yeah , or or when you use the buttons as black , it you can use two colours as well uh marketing : yes , definitely . project manager : okay . but we have to uh think of some other uh important things . industrial designer : project manager : uh oh yeah , the the functionalities of the the buttons . user interface : the funct yeah , i was i was thinking about th the st do we still want a joystick idea . project manager : no . marketing : no , i think that 's too vulnerable . project manager : i think this is okay , user interface : yeah . project manager : the so we have the basic . then we have the numbers . we have the power button . we have we have a teletext button . user interface : the volume , teletext and project manager : and maybe want to access a a menu or something . most tvs have a menu . marketing : yeah , but that 's that 's i was thinking that 's got ta be on the television . user interface : project manager : yeah , but i think you ha i really need a menu button . user interface : yeah yeah yeah yeah , b project manager : that 's just i the only button only user interface : yeah , but wha what kind of menu ? project manager : you know , i user interface : is uh is n't that different from every television ? project manager : no , i think most tvs have an uh a menu nowadays to access the uh uh screen settings . and so marketing : mm . yeah , if it 's c if yeah , i think it 's okay to to add a menu button for uh user interface : project manager : but that that covers all the all the other settings . it covers everything then . marketing : and if the tv does n't have a menu , then industrial designer : but then you have to put uh up and down and uh left and right marketing : yeah . project manager : no , you can use the marketing : yeah , you can put that on the two eight four and six or whatever . project manager : and you al can also use the normal skip buttons for that . industrial designer : okay . project manager : th in that way we have like only the numbers , the power button , skip and volume , and then uh uh ten uh rem marketing : mm , yeah . a mute and a teletext and a menu . project manager : uh yeah , mute . a teletext and a menu , and then then i that 's it . user interface : mute . project manager : it 's all we need . marketing : that 's all . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , uh another stuf some stuff about the the the design of the docking station . marketing : great . yeah . user interface : okay , that 's not mu not much functions . so project manager : something important about a s uh , no , uh which sh uh should remind us of the remote itself , i guess . marketing : yeah , definitely . project manager : uh , in one colour . marketing : are we gon na do something with the uh spongy thing there ? project manager : just use i think the spongy thing already um comes forward in the in the in the cushions , pads and things on the s uh side . industrial designer : uh marketing : yeah , that 's true , that 's true . project manager : and we will make it spongy and and uh and uh well , the fruity thing is just the shape should be fru i did i think this is kind of fruity , you know . just round shapes with uh user interface : marketing : yeah , it 's kinda fruity , and with th with catchy colours uh uh w project manager : yeah , but we 're gon na have to we really have to think i think colours is very important , because it has to be flashy , but and but it d it does n't have to be annoying , that when you uh , know , some things is just over the top , and when you have it on your table for more than two weeks , you it just gets annoying , because it 's so big and flashy . marketing : yeah , definitely . project manager : uh , it has to be some level of subtlety , but we have to still have to think of how we manage to uh to get to that . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . guess we 're through then . marketing : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : i guess so . project manager : but we i think also we just so we have to do something with colour but also , i i think we have to keep the dark colour thing in mind . i think that 's uh adds to the user interface : yeah . project manager : too much colour maybe m um user interface : too much colour , i it uh when you got it in a living room , it 's too much maybe project manager : but our des design experts will uh work that out . marketing : yea yeah . user interface : . it has to be project manager : okay , well i think the meeting will be over within a minute . user interface : yeah . project manager : so we will wrap up . marketing : something like that . project manager : or is there anything we 'd like to discuss ? that 's right . marketing : i guess not . project manager : okay . marketing : do you , guys ? project manager : okay . well , you will read the minutes uh in the you can find them in the user interface : oh , okay , yeah . marketing : in the shared folder . project manager : pro probably . yeah uh no , for su for sure because i 'm will now type them out . industrial designer : what are we going to do now ? project manager : uh , y yeah . marketing : you 'll see in you email , i guess . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think uh industrial designer : marketing : yeah , i do n't know . i do n't know . user interface : i hope so . and the other thing is that you do n't have kind of prototype or something like that . you see a kinda prototype you can a little bit more uh industrial designer : i will make one in the next uh twenty minutes . user interface : yeah . marketing : construct one , yeah . project manager : but toilet paper roll and uh user interface : with you laptop ? yeah . marketing : project manager : okay . user interface : oh my god . marketing : alright , shall we get back to work ? project manager : yep . i was waiting for the l last message , but marketing : great . user interface : well you are . we 're not . marketing : yeah . bastard . user interface : industrial designer : back to the pen . project manager : mm yeah . marketing : you lazy </s>
<s> summarize the presentation on components design . </s> industrial designer : okay , when we talk about uh components design , um it 's really about the material and the and uh uh really the stuff we build uh the remote controls of . um , a remote control consist of uh components and the components of a remote control consist of uh properties and material . we have to choose th uh these uh wisely and it could affect uh uh a kind of grow of in uh in buying uh the remote controls . um , the components of a remote control are of course uh the case . uh the properties of the case , um it has to be solid uh in hard material like uh hard plastic uh with soft rubber for uh falling and and uh uh yeah , it feels uh good in your hand . marketing : industrial designer : mm the buttons has to be uh solid too , and the material is soft rubber . uh i 've got a uh email from the possibilities of real reaction . um uh they 're telling me that um when we build uh a remote control of um of plastic or rubber , the uh buttons have to be uh rubber too . mm it 's okay . yeah . i when we use a rubbled a doubled curved case , we must use a rubber push-buttons to uh the the rubber double-curved case is a is a t uh three-dimensional uh curve in the in the design , which is uh necessary when we want to be trendy . uh um the energy source , uh i 've got a lot of possibilities for that too . um , uh the basic battery , which i thi prefer because of its uh its non uh non-depending of of of uh um uh here you have to have a hand uh yeah , kinetic uh energy . also in uh this one , like in the watches , but a remote control can lie on a table for a day , and then you push uh a button and so you do n't have to uh walk with it all the all the time . mm , solar cells are also uh a bit weird for uh remote controls . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : um uh also the case material , uh i think that plastic is the is the best with rubber , because uh wood or titanium would also be a bit weird . user interface : oh titanium is probably trendy , i think . . marketing : that 's true , i guess . yeah . user interface : well , maybe a little bit expensive . marketing : user interface : i do n't know . industrial designer : uh , they do n't tell anything about the cost of uh titanium . um the chip uh the chip set uh and the board is uh all off the shelf . also , the speaker in the remote control , when we want to retrieve it . um , the base station is also off the shelf , all the materials and the components are uh just available in uh in our uh factory . mm , i 've told about uh the three first points . mm , the simple electronical chip uh is is available uh with the led transmitter uh transmitter . uh , it 's all uh off the shelf and even the speaker and the wireless retriever are all uh available in our company . um , another possibility . i uh yeah , i looked up on was uh the lcd displays . could be uh something special to our uh remote control , and it 's possible , but it only cost a bit more , but maybe it can be uh within the limits of twenty five euros . project manager : twelve and a half . actually industrial designer : ah yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , production cost . industrial designer : i th i got an email with uh some examples and it these were were the most trendiest one . user interface : industrial designer : you see uh a covers , which can be project manager : what are those , t tooth uh brushes , or so user interface : industrial designer : um , i do n't know . um marketing : project manager : but it 's actually kind of uh user interface : i project manager : well , it resembles the design i had in mind for this proj you know the the cartoonish alessi kind of design . industrial designer : yes , maybe we can uh bri uh bring a couple of uh couple of types of uh project manager : and we can we can steal their ideas . marketing : industrial designer : maybe a kind of uh whole uh um a whole set of uh different uh remote controls . maybe we can bring a whole line uh with uh with a huge variety of uh project manager : well , it 's a possibility , too . industrial designer : uh house uh stuff . user interface : different colours also . industrial designer : like uh maybe radios and uh television also uh in this in this in the same style , but project manager : uh-uh . marketing : yeah , that 'll be for the future , i guess . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : next time we 're here . industrial designer : yes , because we have to uh we have to we have to bring the logo and all the stuff uh back into it . marketing : yeah . project manager : oh , okay . marketing : yeah . definitely . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . marketing : alright . user interface : uh marketing : yeah . that 's okay . </s>
<s> what did the project manager think about button sizes when talking about basic functions ? </s> user interface : so , it 's uh just an idea . and i um uh thinked of the button sizes and i 'm not sure uh if they have to be big or uh just small industrial designer : but you 're the expert . marketing : i think it depends on the function . user interface : well , i 'm not a e i 'm the expert for user-friendly , but not for trendiness . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : maybe it marketing : well , if you save uh perhaps uh s tiny buttons are n't user-friendly , then we would n't im implement that of course . project manager : user interface : well uh industrial designer : marketing : user interface : okay , that 's your point . um , yeah . yeah , okay . marketing : user interface : yeah , i 've nothing to s industrial designer : project manager : well , w when we only use basic functions , we have the possibility to make the buttons larger . marketing : oh , that 's right . user interface : uh , with a little bit larger , yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : i thought so , but maybe with the project manager : well , i think we already agreed upon the fact that the the the skip buttons and the cha and the volume buttons , th th those two have yeah , they have to be large . user interface : yeah , that groups . project manager : uh , i mean th th the the two two basic buttons , you know , the to skip channels and to uh user interface : large ? yeah . project manager : i think yeah , i do n't know why , but i think that is that 's t trendy too , user interface : most the most used uh buttons . marketing : those are probably the the th project manager : because that 's the mo it it you know , it 's uh acc acc um accentu uh , how do you say it ? it puts an extra accent on the the on the simplicity of our remotes to j to make these two most basic functions extra big , like t user interface : true . yeah . marketing : those are probably the b four most most used buttons on the th in the remote control . project manager : yeah . and you want to acc accentuate that , you know . industrial designer : you did the research . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it 's from your research . marketing : sorry ? yeah , sure . project manager : so user interface : okay . uh , that was all y industrial designer : user interface : uh personal preference i did n't have . project manager : okay . user interface : i did n't had any time left . </s>
<s> summarize the presentation on trend-watching . </s> marketing : oh , great . well , i 've done some research again about trends on the internet . um i 've done some investigation , and uh well i uh got some information from fashion watchers from paris and uh milan . some uh some findings the most important thing is fancy look and feel of the remote control . uh , well , we were going to imply that , so that 's nice . the second important thing is uh innovative technology in the r_c_ . uh , our market really likes really likes that . and uh the third point there in this uh order if of importance , the third point , is a high ease of use . and uh , well , for the idea , i 've put some trends uh for the market of elderly people . industrial designer : marketing : dark colours , simple recognisable shapes . so we probably wo n't do that . user interface : marketing : the younger market likes uh well , the themes of of this year are uh surprisingly fruits and vegetables and spongy material . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : i found this image , which is uh well , it symbolises the idea of fruits and vegetables . i do n't see the spongy part in it . but with a little bit of fancy project manager : well maybe c then we have to do something with sponge bob then . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : exactly . i got some ideas user interface : marketing : uh well , yeah , pictures is n't really good word , but um industrial designer : marketing : some symbols of fruits or vegetables maybe . uh , catchy colours . industrial designer : marketing : fruit is uh yellow , green , red , whatever . user interface : marketing : so , remote controls in in catchy colours . project manager : it does n't stroke with the with the dark colours . marketing : uh , no , we do n't want dark colours . project manager : not the dark colours ? okay . marketing : no , i just put them there to uh , yeah , uh for general idea . project manager : okay . marketing : and uh , the docking st industrial designer : marketing : uh i think the spongy material is is very irritating for the uh remote control itself . but to industrial designer : marketing : yeah , the to implement some spongy thing , maybe we can do it in the in the docking station . at the bottom of the docking station or whatever . and uh , we could bring one line with a dark colour uh to um uh p uh yeah industrial designer : marketing : uh uh v how do you say ? project manager : for diversity or something . uh marketing : yeah , also a bit for elderly people who are a little bit crazy and want maybe want a little younger design but still the dark colour . user interface : well , how uh industrial designer : marketing : i mean it it it reaches a different market uh , but it it it does n't cost really much effort to b to uh bring uh like a black r_c_ on the market or whatever . yes . user interface : but how do we use uh fruits and vegetables in christ 's sake with remote control ? industrial designer : project manager : no , but i i i think that uh our design already resembles so a piece of fruit . marketing : yeah , there 's there 's always a user interface : uh , make it a banana ? project manager : it 's like a pear or something . user interface : marketing : well there there 's always empty space of course on a remote control . i mean i think this part of the r_c_ uh well the upper the upper part or whatever is uh is not not used with buttons , i guess . project manager : no , i do n't think you have to do it like industrial designer : user interface : marketing : so you you can put some fruity things project manager : yeah , but it that does n't have to remind you , you know , like explicitly of s our f of a of a specific piece of fruit , but just , you know , like the the the the round curves . industrial designer : marketing : no , of course not . project manager : and so y i i think this y it already sem resembles uh something like a pear to me or something . marketing : especially i user interface : yeah , but th yeah , but that marketing : yeah , yeah . yeah , exactly . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , but that 's marketing : if we make it little bit greenish . project manager : you do get the idea , eh ? the fruity kind of round user interface : yeah uh uh project manager : 'kay . marketing : a and we could use one of these for the uh w what is it ? project manager : yeah , uh yeah , i do n't know . industrial designer : grapes . marketing : uh industrial designer : project manager : uh , this is a b yeah . marketing : is n't wha whatever . user interface : but d do n't we need a creative artist or something like that to m make it to feel like a a a a vegetable or fruit ? industrial designer : project manager : yeah , yeah . of course we have uh marketing : yeah , sure . project manager : we have a very big uh the s marketing : yeah . well , w we can uh w we can we can produce multiple uh multiple things . industrial designer : for a big team of artists . project manager : of d design team , yeah . user interface : marketing : this is then the uh pear . i do n't know the english word , so forget it . project manager : yeah , but it 's pear , i guess . marketing : and um , maybe , yeah , a b a banana is uh is n not easy for a remote control , but m yeah . industrial designer : but uh but i think we do n't have to make project manager : no . industrial designer : we ca n't make all uh ten designs . we have to make one design i th i i think . project manager : no , but i think it 's it 's already what we were were up to . marketing : mayb maybe two or three . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh , it 's it does n't have to resemble uh what i already said , a specific piece of fruit , but just , you know , like a fruity thing going on . marketing : yeah . no sure , but but project manager : and it 's it looks fruity to me . user interface : marketing : b but that 's great , and and and what i was project manager : and uh , but i do like the marketing : what what i was saying , the catchy colours project manager : yeah , i do like uh the f uh to the idea of making a a y uh , a catchy colour design and a d because i do i think a dark colour would be nice too . industrial designer : but pictures of fruit , vegetables vegetables marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe it 's too much , you know . user interface : but , we we have to um there have to be the the the the firm colours , our own uh colours has to be in it . marketing : yeah , uh not really . pictures was a was a bad word , but project manager : okay , but what are the this is yellow . marketing : well we c yeah . user interface : yellow , a real reaction . industrial designer : yes , you can put a logo on top of it . project manager : but i do n't think our our company colours are this fashionable . marketing : yeah , sure . user interface : uh , yeah . marketing : maybe we can if if we got our docking station over here . user interface : we uh f industrial designer : yes , it 's really fruity . marketing : i ca n't draw with this thing , but i 'll try . user interface : a yellow do marketing : if this is our docking station , we can make our logo over here . user interface : uh , yeah . marketing : it does n't work . and then user interface : yeah , and the button then . industrial designer : with a strawberry on top . project manager : yeah , on uh n uh on the bottom of the remote you can do marketing : well , the button button over here or whatever , user interface : okay , yeah . marketing : i do n't know . on the front , of course , because else you ca n't find it . user interface : okay . marketing : well , that were my ideas a little bit . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> why did the other group members disagree with industrial designer when talking about the lcd display ? </s> industrial designer : maybe maybe we can make a tv guide on it , for the channel you 're on . marketing : i mean project manager : yeah , but it 's so marketing : yeah , but it should be li like this big , and i do n't think industrial designer : no , no , only the tv channel with the with uh with uh four programmes . project manager : i do n't think we should do it . industrial designer : you can uh zap through them with the page up page down button . marketing : yes sure , but it it has to to show an entire title of a programme or at least a q a quite quite large part of it and then you get a very large lcd screen , because industrial designer : yes , it can on your no , on your mobile phone you can y you can read text also . so why not on your remote ? project manager : yeah , but no . i do i think it 's a bit redundant , actually . marketing : yeah , i do n't know . project manager : and it 's also not i do n't th even think it it looks s like sexy or something , user interface : well well what would you display on it then ? project manager : it 's industrial designer : uh , programme uh information or or or or g or a guide marketing : programme information . user interface : but is it is n't that a already on tv , a lot of new tvs ? marketing : but industrial designer : on t on teletext , yes . also on the internet . marketing : well a lot a lot of tvs indeed show uh when you uh zap to a industrial designer : but project manager : but you 're already watching the tv , you 're not gon na watch your remote control . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yes , but you also want to know what 's next . marketing : but then we also uh w need to bring out a line of tvs which we were planning to , user interface : yeah , project manager : user interface : and we also have to yeah . marketing : but whatever . because the tv has to send information back to the r_c_ , and i do n't know if that 's possible . industrial designer : yes , that 's uh really possible . project manager : marketing : yes , yes , o of course it 's possible , user interface : marketing : but you got ta uh implement it in the tvs , and i do n't think everyone 's gon na buy a real reaction tv within a month after the release of our uh remote control . industrial designer : project manager : i really understand you want to make your job more exciting by putting an lcd in it , user interface : and i also industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : but i i really do n't think it 's a good n goo because it also does n't stroke with we wanted uh c when we talk about the materials , uh it 's a good idea to use these plastic materials with soft rubber stuff on it . it was our idea , you know , to give it a more sturdy look and that you ca like you can throw with it . marketing : yeah . project manager : but i do n't think a lcd display fits in that image . you know , it 's like more vulnerable , and it adds nothing really , you know . marketing : that 's true , that 's true , it breaks f yeah , it it it 's not very solid , it 's uh frag fragile . project manager : yeah , yeah . you could make it , but it 's just it it does n't i do n't think it it 's coherent with the design we 're after . marketing : no . no . i do n't think so ei either . project manager : but that 's my opinion . well , you you y okay , we can vote for it . you want the lcd display . i do n't want to and he does n't , so it 's up to him . industrial designer : no . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : if we wan na user interface : yeah , i dunno . marketing : . ah . industrial designer : project manager : and i 've read somewhere that i 've got some kind of veto veto uh rights . user interface : . oh , okay . industrial designer : marketing : bastard . project manager : so i can also say user interface : we can you away . project manager : but did we skip the yeah , you could do marketing : project manager : m but what what i so what i but do you think we should user interface : yeah , i do n't know . uh , uh i i if it 's it 's a simple p project manager : we 're not even sure what what information we want to display on it . so user interface : no , that that 's right , industrial designer : no uh um user interface : and uh i also have to think about new functions , maybe buttons or something like that to control it . kind of lcd or something or industrial designer : y yes , you can use uh buttons uh uh w that are already uh on the remote control for double functions . marketing : yeah , i guess . user interface : but how does it display then ? w when i go to the second channel , what what does it show me ? industrial designer : uh , then you push a button . the title and the information about the programme . user interface : about that programme ? industrial designer : but but uh yeah , what he said was right , about the televisions , they have to be uh customised to the project manager : nah , that 's not gon na work . industrial designer : but maybe in future it will be a giant hit , and when you are the first project manager : yeah . oh , well uh i 've seen it done before . industrial designer : you have the biggest uh project manager : do you know th like the the bigger rem uh universal remotes , they have d lcd displays , user interface : yeah . project manager : but then it 's very functional to indicate which what uh uh device you are controlling . so it 's that that 's what i 've seen . industrial designer : yes , you can put uh a little lcd display on it with uh with lots of information . marketing : yeah , that 's true , if you uh yeah . project manager : but it just it j it does n't does n't match with the our whole basic concept . industrial designer : but uh i have n't thought about it . but whe but when you put a a a transparent uh plastic uh uh screen on top of it , it i it is n't vulnerable . project manager : well yeah , yeah , okay . that 's maybe not the most important , industrial designer : you can throw with it and project manager : but it 's just user interface : is it fashion ? project manager : i do n't think so . industrial designer : when when you put uh maybe a colour lcd t uh screen on it , it 's very special and very trendy to have uh a remote control from user interface : i do n't know . that 's not up to you . that 's up to market if i if it 's trendy . project manager : yeah , well do you ha do you have to you have n't looked after the trendiness of lcd displays , have you ? marketing : no . industrial designer : user interface : because our our motto is we put fashion marketing : well , i think it 's uh i think it 's pretty trendy , to be honest , uh but um i do n't know if if if well , i 'm coming back to the costs again , but i think uh we got ta build a b pretty cheap design to to stay within our limits . and i think uh especially colour lcd , which is indeed pretty trendy . but i do n't think uh , i think it will be too expensive . industrial designer : but uh i 've got a the email with uh with the possibilities . and lcd was a possibility for the remote control . project manager : user interface : project manager : yeah yeah yeah . industrial designer : so why do n't we use it . project manager : yeah , but we 're gon na if it marketing : uh , did it say a price also uh for for uh monogramme uh lcd or uh coloured lcd ? user interface : yeah , if you want to be trendy you have to be coloured . coloured marketing : yeah really , user interface : if you have black and white or something , or grey , that 's marketing : if y if you c i project manager : then uh then you better do n't yeah , d marketing : i in in two thousand and four you ca n't uh put something on the market which is a monogramme . project manager : user interface : marketing : really . industrial designer : no , but it does n't sa say anything about a colour or but , mm , i alf i also got a possibility to put uh a scroll button on it . but project manager : uh uh i really do n't feel the whole idea of an lcd display . industrial designer : i did n't think that project manager : i 'm sorry . it ca n't co you can not convince me . i do n't know how well how to with you guys , but i do n't really feel it . we already we 're uh user interface : it 's too much uh maybe uh with with the lcd and the docking station and project manager : yeah , we already have the the th th th base station gadgets , marketing : yeah . project manager : and want and it uh uh , do it has to be a simple design , which sturdy , which soft industrial designer : yes , but o on the marketing : w we 've we 've got ta find a balance , of course . user interface : with one thing special . marketing : and i think user interface : not a whole package of specialty . project manager : i do n't think i j uh , and really , i do n't see how the the lcd display is gon na add anything , you know , on a design level . uh , i think it 's slicker to have no l_ ceds . industrial designer : no , when y project manager : y we want to it 's simplicity , w you have two big buttons and you can do whatever you want with these two buttons , so you do n't need an lcd . industrial designer : but it look yes , but that remote controls are already on the market . the simple project manager : it does n't fit in our philosophy uh behind the whole remote . industrial designer : yes , but but when you want to have something special project manager : yeah , but we already have the docking station , which is industrial designer : yes , but you had a picture of it from another company . user interface : and uh the marketing : we have a pear . project manager : it has to be developed , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : but no , but it that 's industrial designer : project manager : that 's our that 's our killer feature . user interface : it 's just an it 's just an idea . marketing : project manager : that 's our what makes it special . user interface : it 's a it 's industrial designer : yes , it was already made . tha the remote control on the docking station . project manager : yeah , we 're gon na develop our own r n docking station . user interface : true . marketing : is that so ? was it it was n't just a prototype ? user interface : well uh i uh industrial designer : yes , he have a picture of it . project manager : user interface : yeah , i dunno . industrial designer : marketing : exactly , i 've never seen it in a store . project manager : uh , but re we really have to cut this off , user interface : project manager : i re i know you i i i i i get the idea you really like it , you know , the the lcd thing , but i i think it 's it 's not a good idea , and we have already mentioned all the arguments . i do n't uh , do you guys agre how do you guys think ? i d user interface : no , it 's too much . marketing : i think it 's a little too much , yeah . user interface : it 's overdone . project manager : okay , we s skip the lcd display . user interface : industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : i 'm sorry , maybe you can do something if we are at your own place , or make it make it make it happen in your basement or something . user interface : democratically . industrial designer : marketing : no . user interface : industrial designer : mayb marketing : . project manager : but industrial designer : i will rule the world with it . project manager : probably so . </s>
<s> what was the discussion about completely titanium design when talking about materials ? </s> project manager : the materials you uh mentioned in your your personal preferences were all were quite okay . industrial designer : yes . project manager : o o only only the last point your user interface : and tita uh titanium , is uh is is it a no ? industrial designer : yes , project manager : no titanium 's not not out of question , i guess . okay , think of the possibilities and make it in completely titanium . well would it be more trendy ? more chic ? marketing : yeah , i think it i think it does . user interface : uh , i think titanium nowadays is way more often used than plastic . industrial designer : yes , but a titanium remote control , when you 're uh watching tv uh or your hands are a little bit sweaty , and the user interface : in trendy things . marketing : yeah , o on the other hand , if you want to make fruit fruity stuff with uh </s>
<s> what was the decision of the functionalities of buttons ? </s> project manager : okay . but we have to uh think of some other uh important things . industrial designer : project manager : uh oh yeah , the the functionalities of the the buttons . user interface : the funct yeah , i was i was thinking about th the st do we still want a joystick idea . project manager : no . marketing : no , i think that 's too vulnerable . project manager : i think this is okay , user interface : yeah . project manager : the so we have the basic . then we have the numbers . we have the power button . we have we have a teletext button . user interface : the volume , teletext and project manager : and maybe want to access a a menu or something . most tvs have a menu . marketing : yeah , but that 's that 's i was thinking that 's got ta be on the television . user interface : project manager : yeah , but i think you ha i really need a menu button . user interface : yeah yeah yeah yeah , b project manager : that 's just i the only button only user interface : yeah , but wha what kind of menu ? project manager : you know , i user interface : is uh is n't that different from every television ? project manager : no , i think most tvs have an uh a menu nowadays to access the uh uh screen settings . and so marketing : mm . yeah , if it 's c if yeah , i think it 's okay to to add a menu button for uh user interface : project manager : but that that covers all the all the other settings . it covers everything then . marketing : and if the tv does n't have a menu , then industrial designer : but then you have to put uh up and down and uh left and right marketing : yeah . project manager : no , you can use the marketing : yeah , you can put that on the two eight four and six or whatever . project manager : and you al can also use the normal skip buttons for that . industrial designer : okay . project manager : th in that way we have like only the numbers , the power button , skip and volume , and then uh uh ten uh rem marketing : mm , yeah . a mute and a teletext and a menu . project manager : uh yeah , mute . a teletext and a menu , and then then i that 's it . user interface : mute . project manager : it 's all we need . marketing : that 's all . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : i call the meeting to order . welcome to the third meeting of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . pursuant to the order of reference of monday , april20 , the committee is meeting for the purposes of considering ministerial announcements , allowing members to present petitions , and questioning ministers of the crown , including the prime minister , in respect of the covid-19 pandemic . i understand there 's an agreement to observe a moment of silence in memory of the six members of the canadian armed forces who lost their lives last wednesday in a helicopter crash off the coast of greece . we 'll return to order . colleagues , we meet today to continue our discussion about how our country is dealing with the covid-19 pandemic . as we do , canadians , like everyone around the world , are doing their best to live their lives until things improve . meanwhile , as we look towards the future , i believe that it is also important to remember our past and to continue to mark the important moments in our shared history . at this very moment , the dominion carillonneur , dr. andrea mccrady , is performing a special recital to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the netherlands by the canadian forces . in may 1945 , canadian forces played a major role in liberating the dutch people from nazi occupation . may 5 is now a national holiday in the netherlands that commemorates the event and the great friendship that now exists between our two countries . today 's meeting is taking place by video conference . the proceedings will be made available via the house of commons website . please be aware that the webcast will always show the person speaking rather than the entire committee . let me remind you that , as in the house or in committee , members may not take photographs of their colleagues or film the proceedings . in order to facilitate the work of our interpreters and ensure orderly meetings , i will outline a few rules . interpretation of this video conference will be done as it is at normal committee meetings and in the house . at the bottom of your screen , you can choose floor , english or french . as you have seen , i change as i am speaking . i have now switched over to english in order to speak english . if you look at the bottom , you have a little flag that indicates whether it 's english or french , and that 's how we will be speaking . it makes it easier . that was where we had a little bit of a glitch in the last session . i understand that there are no statements by ministers . we can now proceed to presenting petitions for a period not exceeding 15 minutes . i would like to remind members that petitions presented during a meeting of the special committee must already have been certified by the clerk of petitions . in addition , to ensure that the petition is considered to have been properly presented , the certificate of the petition and each page of the petition for petitions certified in a previous parliament should be emailed to the committee no later than 6 p.m. on the day before the committee . i thank all the members for their usual co-operation . thank you all . now we 'll proceed to presenting petitions . our first petition comes from the honourable member for sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis ( sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , cpc ) : mr . chair , i 'm pleased to be presenting two petitions today . the first petition is with respect to government bill c-7 . petitioners raised concerns that this bill removes safeguards from the current euthanasia regime . it includes removing the mandatory 10-day reflection period and the number of required witnesses who will witness a person 's consent . the petitioners urge the house of commons to immediately discontinue the removal of safeguards for people requesting euthanasia , and to put in place additional measures to protect vulnerable people . this would require that bill to be amended or not passed . the second petition is with respect to senate public bill s-204 . this is on organ harvesting and trafficking . petitioners call on members of the house , and hopefully the senate as well , to support bill s-204 , which would make it a criminal offence for a person to go abroad and receive an organ for which there has not been consent . it would also create provisions under which a person could be made inadmissible to canada if they had been involved in organ harvesting or trafficking . thank you very much . the chair : thank you . i want to remind all the members that there are specific headsets that have been mandated to all of us . if you do n't have one , please talk to your it ambassador and they will get one to you as quickly as possible . the reason for them is not so much for what you hear , but that our interpreters are working and there are work conditions that really make it difficult . part of that is not having the appropriate boom on your headset , which will make it very difficult for them to hear and interpret for our members . now we go to the member for beacheseast york , mr. erskine-smith . mr. nathaniel erskine-smith ( beacheseast york , lib . ) : mr . chair , i had to learn how to tie my tie all over again . it 's been so long . i want to thank jenna robar , who 's led this petition e-2453 . the petitioners have noted that there are approximately 60 indigenous languages in canada and that 2019 , last year , was declared by the un to be the year of indigenous languages . they draw attention to article 13 of the undrip and to the trc 's calls to action numbers 13 to 16 . fundamentally , they call upon the government of canada to recognize indigenous languages as being official languages of canada and to have each language recognized nationally , with implementations on regional and provincial levels , acknowledging that many regions have different languages . mr. eric duncan ( stormontdundassouth glengarry , cpc ) : mr . chair , i am proud to present a petition on behalf of one of my constituents , myles lynch of st. andrews west in my riding . myles made history as the first canadian ever to survive three double-lung transplants . myles lives with cystic fibrosis and has had three lung transplants in the last five years , and he 's only 22 years old . myles created a documentary called 8 thousand myles , which had a few showings in my riding . it documented his journey across canada . one thing myles has been advocating for is the creation of a national opt-out program for organ donation . myles asked me how he could help raise awareness of that issue . i mentioned to him e-petitions online and getting people across the country to sign them . i am proud to have this certified today , with 1,318 signatures , asking the standing committee on health to launch a study into the feasibility of the creation of a national opt-out program . i give kudos to myles not only for his strength personally but also for his advocacy for others and for saving lives in our country by advocating for a better and an improved organ donation system . kudos to myles . i 'm proud to present this petition today . mr. peter julian ( new westminsterburnaby , ndp ) : mr . chair , i 'm very pleased to present this certified petition on behalf of several dozen residents of toronto , mississauga and brampton , ontario , who add their voices to those of the thousands upon thousands of canadians who have signed similar petitions . given that canadians are living through unprecedented , catastrophic climate events , and at the same time our society , as you know , is suffering from worsening social and economic inequalitieshalf of canadian families are only $ 200 away from insolvency in any given monthand particularly given the pandemic that we are currently experiencing , these petitioners are calling on the government of canada to support motion m-1 , a made-in-canada green new deal that i am presenting in front of the house of commons . it calls on canada to take bold and rapid action to tackle the climate emergency , and to put in place a shift to a clean and renewable energy economy . mr. gord johns ( courtenayalberni , ndp ) : mr . chair , it 's an honour to table a petition on behalf of constituents from courtenayalberni . they are concerned , obviously , about fentanyl-related deaths . over 12,000 canadians have died over the last four years due to fentanyl-poisoned sources . they cite that the current war on drugs has been costly and grossly ineffective ; that it has resulted in widespread stigma towards addiction and against those who use illicit drugs ; and that criminalization of particular substances has resulted in the establishment of a drug trade that now trafficks dangerous and lethal products such as fentanyl . they are citing that regulating to ensure safe sources , with proper measures and bylaws , will reduce the criminal element associated with street drugs . problematic substance use is a health issue and is not resolved through criminalization of personal possession and consumption . they are calling on the government of canada to declare the current opioid overdose and fenanyl poisoning crisis a national public health emergency under the emergencies act . they are calling for the government to reform current drug policy to decriminalize personal possession , as has been done in portugal and other countries , and to create with urgency and immediacy a system to provide safe and unadulterated access to substances so that people who use substances experimentally , recreationally or chronically are not at imminent risk of overdose due to a contaminated source . mr. brad vis ( missionmatsquifraser canyon , cpc ) : mr . chair , i 'm presenting a petition today that contains the concerns of canadians in my riding with the government 's approach to firearms legislation and regulation . the petition highlights that the liberal government 's december 5 , 2019 , speech from the throne contains numerous inaccuracies about current firearms legislation and regulation ; that the term military-style assault rifles is a political phrase undefined in canadian law ; that municipalities are constitutionally unable to enact criminal law to ban handguns in their jurisdictions ; that the experts , including chiefs of police , agree that banning firearms and requiring law-abiding gun owners to follow more unnecessary red tape will not increase public safety ; that the majority of guns used in violent crimes are smuggled into canada from the united states ; and that the liberal government continues to target law-abiding firearms owners instead of the gangs , drug traffickers and illegal gun traffickers responsible for violence in our communities . the petitioners in missionmatsquifraser canyon are calling on the government to stop targeting law-abiding firearms owners ; to cancel all plans to confiscate firearms legally owned by federally licensed , rcmp-vetted canadians ; and to focus our limited resources on anti-gang enforcement , on reducing the involvement of at-risk youth and gangs , on mental health and on providing the canada border services agency with the tools they need to do their job effectively . the chair : very good . that 's all for petitions today . we will now proceed to the questioning of ministers . i would like to remind honourable members that no member shall be recognized for more than five minutes at a time and that members may split their time with one or more members by so indicating to the chair . ministers responding to the question should do so by simply turning on their mike and speaking . i want to again remind honourable members to use the boom on the official headsets so that everything runs smoothly , not only for ourselves but also for the interpreters . we start the question period with mr.paul-hus . mr. pierre paul-hus ( charlesbourghaute-saint-charles , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . although we are right in the middle of a pandemic and the government has agreed to set aside all parliamentary business in order to concentrate solely on eliminating the virus in canada and its impacts , the prime minister is deceiving canadians by introducing measures to punish law-abiding firearm owners . why ? right hon . justin trudeau ( prime minister ) : mr.chair , i feel that all canadians were affected by the massacre in nova scotia . once again , too many families are facing tragedy and tremendous grief . during the last election campaign , we promised to ban military-style assault weapons , and that is exactly what we have done . we will be working with members from all parties in order to continue strengthening gun control . it is a shame that , once more , the conservatives do not want to strengthen gun control in the country . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , i understand the prime minister 's reply . however , i would like to know whether he considers that , with this order in council , organized crime , street gangs and other criminals are simply going to turn in their weapons . right hon . justin trudeau : this is indeed only a first step , but it is an important one . we are doing other things to eliminate or restrict handguns in our municipalities , to strengthen the control at our borders , and to implement other measures . i am pleased to hear the hon . member speak of those measures , because we are going to work together in the house to strengthen gun control . i hope that the conservative party will be part of that discussion in a positive way , in order to keep canadians safe . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , i can simply say to the prime minister that the conservative party has always been committed to battling criminals , not law-abiding citizens . speaking of criminals , we know that , even before the pandemic , the prime minister had asked the parole board of canada to release prisoners more easily and more quickly . now we are learning that , because of the pandemic , some releases are happening very quickly . the minister of public safety told us that the people were approaching the end of their sentences or were older , but we are learning in the media that some dangerous criminals are being released . can the prime minister give us an explanation ? right hon . justin trudeau : the protection , the safety and the health of all canadians are important for the government . this is why we have taken additional measures in our correctional services to ensure that guards and inmates are protected . we have indeed opened the doors to some more speedy releases , but only in very specific cases that present little or no danger for canadians . we have managed to find the right balance . we must protect canadians and we must also ensure that they are safe . those two things go hand-in-hand . mr. pierre paul-hus : so is the prime minister confirming to us that no dangerous criminals have been precipitously released so that they do not have to experience covid-19 within the walls ? right hon . justin trudeau : there are very strict rules and principles to ensure that people posing a threat to society are not released . the chair : mr.paul-hus , you have one minute left . mr. pierre paul-hus : thank you , mr.chair . the chinese government has not been transparent with the rest of the world about the coronavirus . australia asked for an in-depth investigation , but has received threats from the communist regime . is canada going to stand by its allies in the five eyes and demand that the chinese government be completely transparent ? right hon . justin trudeau : we continue to stand in solidarity with our allies , including the five eyes , as they have stood in solidarity with canada in terms of the two canadians who have been unjustly detained for a long time in china . in the coming months and years , we expect to obtain answers to all our questions about the origin of this pandemic , including questions that are important for china . at the same time , we are going to work hard to ensure that all canadians have the equipment and the protection they need to get through this pandemic . the chair : we now move to mr.blanchet . mr. yves-franois blanchet ( beloeilchambly , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . i am sorry that i do not have my official headset . i was elsewhere , and i did not bring it with me . i hope that you can still hear me properly . for some days , discussions have been going on between people from the bloc qubcois and people from the government with a view to collaboratively coming up with a proposal for seniors in quebec and canada . the gist of our proposal is to temporarily increase the old age security by about $ 25per week , or $ 110per month . by the way , i hate the term `` old age security . i prefer `` senior security . the discussion has been going on for some time and it 's a proposal that we made in the election campaign . we are asking for it to be done at this point , at least temporarily . parliament stopped sitting in the middle of march . we are now in may , and seniors still have nothing . they are impatient themselves , and we spend a good part of our days answering them . given that impatience , i realized i should not be the one answering them , it should be the prime minister . so here is my question for the prime minister : what are you doing to seek a solution that will increase the purchasing power of seniors in quebec and canada in the very short term ? right hon . justin trudeau : clearly , seniors need support and significant services from us because of covid-19 . our priority was to implement income replacement benefits for workers who have lost their jobs because of covid-19 . then we announced different measures , including measures for seniors . the most vulnerable seniors are going to receive reimbursement of the gst , which will help them very quickly . we have also reduced by 25 % the minimum amount that must be withdrawn from registered retirement income funds . we have also channelled $ 9million through the united way , to help the most vulnerable seniors . absolutely , i recognize that more must be done . i am very pleased that we have been able to work with other parliamentarians , including those in the bloc qubcois , to hear these concerns and to find the best way to help seniors in the short term . in terms of the pandemic , they have concerns about their physical security , but also about their financial security . we will have more to say about this soon . mr. yves-franois blanchet : in the last few hours , the prime minister has indicated that he could need the cooperation of other parties , including the bloc qubcois , on a completely different matter . we are very open to that discussion , but we want the same openness when we are asking for something to serve the people of quebec . the cost of a basket of groceries has increased for seniors , as it has for everyone else . it 's true for all seniors over 65years old , of course . the current old age pension represents less than half of the canada emergency student benefit . it represents less than one third of the basic canada emergency response benefit . seniors in my constituency , as in any other of the 338constituencies , are asking what we are doing . they are asking how there can be nothing for them . when will there be something for them ? i want to be able to give them an answer of some kind . what is the prime minister 's answer ? i will repeat it to them . right hon . justin trudeau : there will be announcements in the coming days on the way in which we will be able to help seniors , particularly the most vulnerable seniors . we recognize that the cost of a basket of groceries is increasing for everyone . that is why we have to do better for our seniors . there are horror stories , whether about the chslds , or about our most vulnerable seniors across the country . far too many families are experiencing tremendous grief . there are seniors who are alone , seniors who are afraid of falling ill without ever seeing their grandchildren or their children again . we have to be there for those who belong to that great generation that fought for us during the second world war . now we have to fight for them in their homes . that is exactly what we are going to do . the chair : we 'll go to the next question . ms. collins . ms. laurel collins ( victoria , ndp ) : mr . chair , every day i hear from people who are struggling to pay their bills and to keep a roof over their head . instead of making sure that canadians get the help they need , the government has created complicated programs that are still letting people fall through the cracks . if the prime minister wo n't commit to a universal benefit , will he at least commit to removing the restrictive eligibility criteria that are leaving the most vulnerable people behind ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , we knew , when this pandemic hit , that we needed to help canadians who were suffering from coast to coast to coast , particularly the most vulnerable . that is why we moved forward rapidly with the canada emergency response benefit , which has helped over seven million individual canadians and has made a huge difference . we had to move very quickly to get this money out to people , and that is exactly what we did . we also recognized that there would be a need to do more . that is why since that moment , we have continually worked on reaching out to the most vulnerable and supporting them as well . we have more to do , but we knew that targeted approaches were what was most needed . ms. laurel collins : mr . chair , the government continues to leave people behind . i spoke to a woman in my riding who was homeless last year . she recently found a job and a place to live . however , because she did n't make $ 5,000 last year , when the pandemic hit she did n't qualify for any benefits . she did n't qualify , but she is one of the people who need it the most . i 'm wondering why the prime minister does n't think she deserves our support . right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , our focus throughout this crisis has been on helping the most vulnerable with targeted measures that will lift canadians out of poverty and will support them . over the past five years , we 've lifted over a million people out of poverty in this country , and we 've continued to put the most vulnerable at the heart of everything we 're doing . we will continue to . we 've put significant investments forward to charitable organizations and foundations that are helping the most vulnerable . at the same time , we will continue to look for more ways to help even more than the seven million canadians who successfully receive the cerb . we recognize there 's more to do , and we will continue trying to do everything we can in this unprecedented situation . ms. laurel collins : mr . chair , the government is weirdly committed to eligibility criteria that result in regular people not getting the support they need , but not so committed to criteria for corporations and billionaires who get our help . if a company is cheating the public , using offshore tax havens not to pay its fair share , it should not be eligible for government bailouts or benefits . other countries , like poland , denmark and france , have made this commitment , and if they can do it , so can we . the prime minister said one thing one day and another the next . will he commit now that if a company has money in offshore tax havens , it will not receive public funds ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , the measures we 've put forward are focused on helping workers who lose their jobs , regardless of the companies they work for . it is a shame to hear the ndp , which used to be the party of workers , choosing to judge workers by which multinational they work for . we have moved forward with a wage subsidy such that the employers are obliged to pass every single penny on to the workers . that is not help for the companies . that is help for the workers , and that has been our focus all the way through : ordinary canadians who need support because they are unable to work because of covid-19 . that has been our priority , and that is what canadians need right now . of course , we continue to have very strong measures to fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion . we spent a billion dollars to strengthen our ms. laurel collins : mr . chair , can i ask my last question ? right hon . justin trudeau : we will continue to do that . the chair : i 'm just going to pause the time for a moment . i want to remind honourable members that we 're trying to stay within committee rules , which state that the length of a question and the length of an answer should be approximately the same amount of time . i just want to remind our members of that . i 'll go back to ms. collins . she has about 45 seconds left , and hopefully that 's about half and half for the question and the answer . ms. collins . ms. laurel collins : thanks so much , mr . chair . my last question is about housing and homelessness . my community was facing a crisis long before the pandemic hit , and now people who are living on the streets or in parks do n't have the luxury of following public health advice and just staying home . in victoria , the province and the municipality have stepped up with solutions to house people , at least for the short term , in local hotels . will the federal government respond to this immediate crisis and provide the needed investments in long-term , stable housing ? the chair : the right honourable prime minister , in 25 seconds or less , please . right hon . justin trudeau : yes , mr . chair , we have moved forward with a historic national housing strategy that puts $ 40 billion toward housing . working with partners , we have reduced poverty by over a million people in this country , but there is more to do . we are reducing homelessness by half with historic investments . we recognize that during this pandemic there 's even more to do for vulnerable canadians , and we are partnering with orders of government to make sure that happens . mr. jol godin ( portneufjacques-cartier , cpc ) : a point of order , mr.chair . the chair : order . mr.godin has a point of order . mr. jol godin : mr.chair , i can not hear the french interpretation . could we please check so that i can hear in french what the prime minister is saying ? the chair : okay . can we check that ? mr. jol godin : thank you . right hon . justin trudeau : i can try speaking english . i believe i was on the english tab , as is important . are you hearing the translation now ? the chair : that is exactly what the issue was . i just want to point that out to all the members . i 'm speaking english right now and i 'm on the english toggle at the bottom of the screen . it does create a bit of a disjoint when we 're speaking , but it 's the way to get around that so we have interpretation that works for everyone . the next question will go to the leader of the opposition , mr. scheer . hon . andrew scheer ( leader of the opposition ) : mr . chair , as this is our first opportunity to meet in any forum , i want to take this opportunity to express my condolences to the families of the brave men and women who lost their lives in the helicopter crash . i know that i speak for all parliamentarians when i extend our sympathy to their families and loved ones . mr . chair , i want to raise with the prime minister an issue that i 've raised several times before , and that is a gap in the wage subsidy program . there is a company in my riding that employs thousands of people across the country . last year , they acquired another company . those companies separately would qualify for the wage subsidy , but because of rules that the government designed , together they do not . even though collectively they have experienced a massive drop in revenue and would otherwise be eligible , so far they 've been unable to get confirmation that they will be able to access the program . as a result , thousands of jobs are threatened . will the prime minister be able to deliver some good news to people who work for brandt tractor all across the country ? right hon . justin trudeau : i thank the honourable member for his question and for his advocacy for his community and businesses in his riding . as i told him when we spoke directly , finance officials have been directly in contact with the company in his riding . we recognize that there are particular elements in regard to this company that are challenging around application for the wage subsidy , but i know that finance officials are working very hard to try to make sure that everyone who needs the subsidy gets it , so that the workers in his community can get the support they need . hon . andrew scheer : the prime minister knows that there are many companies across the country that fall into this category as well , so we 're hoping for some good news . just flagging the time and date , it is well into may now and important decisions have to be made in very short order . there are other aspects of the government 's plans to help get people through this crisis that are also causing people to fall through the cracks . the plan to help businesses with rent applies only after a business has lost 70 % of their revenue . as provinces start to open up , many companies are going to be faced with a very difficult decision of operating at perhaps 35 % or 45 % of regular revenues . they will not be able to access these programs and , in many cases , there is going to be a disincentive to reopen and put people back to work . will the prime minister amend these programs to provide for more flexibility so that more and more canadians can start to return to work in the weeks ahead ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , we are in an unprecedented crisis and we had to move quickly to support workers and to support families across the country , and that 's exactly what we did . we 're going to continue to work to try to respond to the reality that people and businesses are facing right across the country . i am eager to be faced with the challenge of how to ease off in these measures so that people can get back to work . we are getting closer to that point , but we are not there yet . we are still focused very much on giving the supports to workers and families that are so necessary in this time of crisis . as different provinces move forward towards reopening , as we look at different paths forward , i know that i will be able to count on all members in the house and , indeed , on canadians from coast to coast to coast to figure out together what the best way will be to move forward on keeping us safe and restoring economic activity in the right way . that will be good to work on together once we get there . the chair : we have about a minute left for maybe a 30-second question and a 30-second answer . mr. scheer . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , no one is disputing the need to move quickly . we are now in may , though , and these programs have been announced for weeks . canadians have been accessing them . the problems with them have been flagged for the government for weeks as well , but we 're also going to see an additional challenge , where people who are receiving the emergency response benefit , who may have the option to go back to work and work some hours , are faced with a hard cap of $ 1,000 a month before they lose the cerb . conservatives are proposing a progressive system , a more flexible system , where people will be able to earn more without losing their benefits as businesses ramp up but before normal working hours are restored . again , will the prime minister build in some flexibility to lift the restrictive ceiling on what people can earn before losing benefits so that it always pays more to work ? the chair : i believe the timer is telling all of us that the time is up , but i 'll give the right honourable prime minister about 30 seconds to answer that , please . right hon . justin trudeau : thank you , mr . chair . our priority was getting support for canadians right across the country with the cerb , with the wage subsidy and with other measures for students , for seniors , for farmers and for agricultural producers . that has been our priority , and that 's what we have worked on . i hear the concerns that the conservative party has around disincentives . we are going to work with communities and with industry as we look to reopen , to make sure that people have opportunities to work and are not penalized for it . however , our overarching priority was allowing canadians to be confident in their ability to stay home , care for their loved ones , buy groceries and pay their rent so that we could keep safe during this pandemic . that 's exactly what we did . the chair : we 'll go to ms. gladu now . ms. marilyn gladu ( sarnialambton , cpc ) : mr . chair , seniors in my riding are struggling . we 've heard the prime minister admit that fixed incomes for some of them are down , rent is increasing and the price of groceries is increasing . he 's been saying for weeks that in the coming days , something would be announced for seniors . the fact is that the liberals ran on an election promise to increase the old age security . which of the days in the coming weeks will they keep their promise to seniors ? hon . deb schulte ( minister of seniors ) : mr . chair , after a lifetime of hard work , of course canadians deserve peace of mind when it comes to their retirement security . covid-19 is definitely having a disproportionate impact on seniors . they have a greater need for services and supports . happily , their pensions and their benefits are still flowing , unlike for so many of those who have lost their jobs , but it 's still tough . we introduced measures ms. marilyn gladu : which day ? hon . deb schulte : at the beginning of april . people received a gst credit , a supplementary payment that was $ 400 on average for single seniors and $ 600 for couples . that was of significant help to low- and moderate-income seniors . the chair : we have a point of order from ms. gladu . ms. marilyn gladu : yes , mr . chair . i think you had reminded us as members that the amount of time for the answer should be similar to the amount of time for the question . i would just ask the minister to keep to that . i would like to go to my second question . the chair : i want to remind all honourable members to keep their answers as well as their questions as concise as possible . ms. gladu . ms. marilyn gladu : very good , mr . chair . my riding is on the border of canada and the u.s. we see a number of inconsistencies in what is considered essential travel with regard to the u.s. and actually in the interpretation of different cbsa agents . while we have americans coming over to buy cheaper prescription medications and to fish , individuals in my riding who are trying to get auditors over so that they can be approved for export businesses are being declined . we have people who have purchased masts from canadian producers for their boats , and who want to come and pick them up , who are not being allowed to do that . people trying to sell plasma into the u.s. are being denied . when will they clarify the rules to the cbsa agents so that essential travel and trade and commerce , including individual commerce , is understood ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : mr . chair , we have implemented very rigorous rules that have been well documented and understood by cbsa to stop all non-essential travel . those measures have been very successful . we 've seen a 99 % reduction in international travel coming into canada . at the same time , we recognize the importance of maintaining essential supply routes so that goods and services could reach canada and we could put groceries on our shelves . we also recognize the important work that essential workers do on both sides of the border . we have provided cbsa with clarification . their interpretation of those rules has been broadly consistent . i 've heard from a number of our colleagues in caucus with concerns about individual cases . when we receive those inquiries , we follow up immediately . i want to assure the member that we 'll continue to do that . the work we are doing to stop non-essential travel has been important for the health and safety of canadians , and we will continue with that work . ms. marilyn gladu : mr . chair , my next question has to do with sole proprietor businesses . we see that many of them are not eligible for any of the benefit packages that have been rolled outei , cerb , the wage subsidy , etc . what is the government going to do to address sole proprietors who are currently falling through the cracks ? hon . bill morneau ( minister of finance ) : mr . chair , first , let me say that we absolutely recognize there are businesses across the country of all sizes that are finding this to be extremely difficult . the intent of the measures we put forward is obviously not only to give individuals a bridge but to give businesses a bridge . we are looking at ways that we can ensure that the canada emergency business account has the broadest possible application . more than 500,000 businesses have already been approved for these loans , representing over $ 20 billion . we are looking at ways we can consider that eligibility process , recognizing that we need to make sure that the program continues to have its desired impact , and we will have more to say on that . the chair : the next question will go to mr. arnold . mr. mel arnold ( north okanaganshuswap , cpc ) : mr . chair , this is my first appearance , so i hope you can hear me okay . the chair : we can hear you fine . please proceed . mr. mel arnold : thank you , mr . chair . it 's good to see everyone 's faces . on april 3 , the fisheries minister said opening dates would be determined by harvesters . since then the minister has overruled the will of harvesters in prince edward island and in the gulf who voted to start their seasons on time , but she has allowed harvesters from her own riding to proceed with their seasons as scheduled , giving them access to markets weeks before their competitors . this double standard is severely unfair and atlantic harvesters are furious , as demonstrated during the protests on the canso causeway yesterday . when will the minister stop abusing her position and start respecting fish harvesters by opening up lobster fishing areas 23 , 24 and 26 ? hon . bernadette jordan ( minister of fisheries , oceans and the canadian coast guard ) : mr . chair , when making decisions with regard to when seasons open , a number of factors are taken into account . they are complex decisions that take into account what is necessary for processors to be ready for the season , what is necessary for harvesters to be ready for the season , as well socio-economic impacts on the area . we 're looking at all of those measures when we make these decisions . we do not make them lightly . they are difficult decisions to make . in the decisions we 've made around the gulf , one of the main things we heard from all of those areas is that it was very important for them to start on the same date . that is why the decision was made to start on the 15th of may . we 're looking forward to seeing the harvesters out on the water . we 're looking forward to the product that they bring in . we 'll continue do everything we can to support the industry . mr. mel arnold : thank you , minister . i believe the time the chair : excuse me . no , the hon . minister had another 15 seconds coming to her . i 'd like to remind hon . members not to interrupt a person while they are speaking . i 'll do my best to try to keep it about level . maybe i 'll start muting if it 's necessary , but interrupting is not going to solve anything . mr. arnold , i 'll let you continue . you have three minutes and nine seconds left . mr. mel arnold : thank you , mr . chair . west coast fishing tourism is a key economic driver in british columbia , especially in coastal communities , and yet the public fishery gets no respect from the government . last year , the public fishery was weakened by restrictions based on ideology and not science . a year later , the fisheries minister refuses even to discuss viable , science-based solutions to conserve b.c . 's public fisheries . does the minister and her government have a will and a plan to support canada 's west coast fisheries and the communities they sustain ? the chair : the hon . minister in 30 seconds , please . hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , the fishery is important in every coastal community . i recognize its value for our economy , as well as what it means to our coastal communities . that 's why we continue to work with those communities and with the fisheries to make sure that we 're doing everything we possibly can to support them . during these extremely difficult times , we 're working on measures with the fishery in b.c. , as well as on the atlantic coast and eastern quebec , to make sure that we 're delivering for them and that all of the issues they 're having are being addressed . the chair : mr. arnold . mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , canada 's seniors , especially those on basic incomes , are being hard hit by the covid-19 crisis as they face new rising costs and scarcity of services . seniors require adequate caregiver supports , physical safety and freedom to access their savings to reinforce their financial security . why has the government failed to recognize the increasing challenges that seniors are facing ? will the government support canada 's senior citizens ? the chair : the hon . minister in 30 seconds or less , please . hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , i want to assure my hon . colleague that the government has been focused on seniors during this challenging time . we have provided a gst credit supplement of $ 400 for single seniors and $ 600 for couples , for low- and modest-income seniors . we have also ensured that the canada emergency response benefit is there for seniors who have lost income due to covid-19 . we 've made them eligible . the chair : we 'll go back to mr. arnold . mr. arnold , you have a minutehopefully a 30-second question and a 30-second answer . mr. mel arnold : thank you , mr . chair . on april 23 , my colleagues and i called on the government to create a program that would match students seeking employment with employers in canada 's essential food supply chains . what has the government done to match students and other canadians seeking employment with employers in the agriculture and agri-food sectors , including those in the fish and seafood sector ? hon . carla qualtrough ( minister of employment , workforce development and disability inclusion ) : mr . chair , we 're doing all we can to make sure , using our existing employment programs , that we create opportunities for students to work and get work experience this summer . we know that this is going to be really tough , especially in areas like agriculture , so we have dedicated streams for agriculture sector employers to access students with help from the government , and a number of different initiatives including canada summer jobs , which i 'm really excited to see the results of in the coming days . the chair : now we 'll go on to the next question from ms . harder . ms. rempel , do you have a point of order ? hon . michelle rempel garner ( calgary nose hill , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . with my colleague , mr. arnold , it 's the second time that i note you 've threatened to cut off a conservative microphone . i 'm just wondering , given that this is n't the house of commons and it 's structured as a committee , what standing order would give you the right to cut off a member of parliament using a mute button . it seems a little dictatorial , and i was just wondering whether you could clarify that , based on the standing orders . the chair : i do n't think i threatened to use mute , but thank you for bringing that up . i am trying to keep the rules where the questions and the answers are equal , so that there are no interruptions on either side . that 's how we 're going to continue . i did n't use the mute . i did it verbally and i think that 's a little more civil way of doing it . i hope you approve . i 'm not asking you to comment on that . we 'll go over to ms . harder . thank you . hon . michelle rempel garner : but , on the point of order , mr . chair , you actually , to me , last week , and to mr. arnold , did suggest that you were going to use the mute button . the chair : i believe that if we take everything out and go over it ... . bring the papers with the actual verbiage on it where i threatened , and we 'll go over it , but i do n't think this is the venue to do that . if you want to bring forward a point of order , i 'm all in favour of it . hon . michelle rempel garner : well , i am bringing forward a point of order . i 've asked you to clarify the chair : very good . we 'll look into it and get back to you . thank you . we 'll go on to ms . harder . ms. rachael harder ( lethbridge , cpc ) : canadians have outrightly expressed outrage and disappointment with the government 's initiative to put a gun ban in place . does the minister stand by his comment that these changes would have prevented the tragedy in nova scotia ? the chair : the honourable minister in 15 seconds or less , please . hon . bill blair : we have heard from health professionals , women 's rights organizations , victims groups and the police and our unions . they 're all very supportive of the government 's measure to ban weapons that have no place in a civil society and were designed to kill people . ms. rachael harder : it 's interesting that the minister is misleading canadians in that comment because the canadian association of chiefs of police has actually said that a gun ban will do nothing of the sort , that it actually will not protect canadians . so i 'd be curious . how many criminals will see guns seized because of the changes that have been implemented by the liberal government ? hon . bill blair : yes , let 's actually quote what the police have said . the ontario association of chiefs of police said that they support a prohibition on all military-designed assault rifles . the chief in toronto said that taking those assault rifles off the streets contributes to public safety , and the canadian association of police chiefs has declared that military assault rifles are produced for the sole purpose of killing people in large numbers and they urged successive governments to enact legislation to ban all military assault rifles . ms. rachael harder : the answer to that question is zero . absolutely no criminals will see their guns seized based on the liberals ' legislation that 's coming forward because it actually goes after those who legally own and use their firearms . can the prime minister please tell us why he decided to go after law-abiding citizens instead of actually going after criminals who have gotten their firearms in an illegal manner and then used them to commit crimes ? the chair : the honourable minister in 25 seconds or less , please . hon . bill blair : yes , to be very clear , the order in council actually is targeted at weapons , weapons that were designed for military use , and in their design and in their intent , to kill people , they 've actually been used in this country , at cole polytechnique ; in moncton ; at a quebec city mosque ; in fredericton ; at mayerthorpe and most recently in nova scotia . these are weapons that really have no place ... . they are being used and have been used in canada and around the world to commit mass murder , and in the interest of public safety and at the urging the chair : we 'll go on to ms . harder . ms. rachael harder : thank you . now i understand the prime minister has his food prepared for him at 24 sussex drive and then it 's delivered to him at the cottage where he lives . contrary to his privileged understanding , food actually originates with farmers . now , they 're in a crisis right now , which means that regular canadians are actually at risk of not having food available for them at the grocery stores where they purchase theirs . the canadian federation of agriculture requested $ 2.6 billion to help them out . today , the government announced one-tenth of this amount . why does n't the prime minister care about the women and the men who work incredibly hard to keep canada fed ? hon . chrystia freeland ( deputy prime minister and minister of intergovernmental affairs ) : mr . chair , let me assure the hon . member that our government cares very , very much about the women and men who work so hard to feed our country . let me just say i am grateful to all the farmers , like my dad , who are out in their fields right now getting ready for seeding . we , as canadians , are lucky to be citizens of an agricultural superpower , and our government believes in supporting our farmers and ranchers . ms. rachael harder : i 'm confused as to why the prime minister did n't take my question , and at a bare minimum as to why the agriculture minister does n't feel it 's important enough for her to be a part of this discussion today . when we have farmers who produce for canadians on a daily basis and they 're asking some serious and some very important questions , and we do n't even have a minister who 's willing to come to the table and engage in this conversation , that 's shameful . several meat-packing plants have been forced to shut down because of covid-19 and , as a result , farmers are forced to hold stock longer than expected . cattle producers in my region are spending more than $ 60,000 a day to keep their livestock fed while they wait for processing plants to reopen . the amount that was announced today by the federal government is a drop in the bucket . it 's a crumb . when will the government take this seriously and at least implement a set-aside program for those who are beef producers in canada ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , let me just say that i feel there is nothing shameful at all in having me , the deputy prime minister , answer questions about agriculture . i am actually very proud to speak up for canada 's amazing farmers , for our country 's amazing ranchers , for our amazing pork producers and our poultry producers . i feel so close to our farmers . i love them and our government supports them . today , we announced $ 252 million of support for our producers . they need it . they deserve it . we 're here for them . the chair : now we 'll go on to mr. bezan . mr. james bezan ( selkirkinterlakeeastman , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . i too would like to express my sincere condolences to the families and friends of the six military heroes who lost their lives at sea last week . i 'm sure that all members of the house stand shoulder to shoulder with the families , with the crew of the hmcs fredericton and , indeed , with the entire canadian armed forces community during this time of grief . can the minister of national defence give us an update as to the cyclone helicopter crash off the coast of greece last week ? hon . harjit s. sajjan ( minister of national defence ) : mr . chair , the deaths of the canadian armed forces members are felt by all , and especially the families . our condolences go out to them . our number one priority is to make sure that we look after them , and that 's exactly what we are doing . currently , the investigation is ongoing . our investigative team is currently on the ground . i actually spoke with the italian minister of defence and he promised full support for this investigation and any support that 's required . the chair : i 'm afraid i 'm going to have to cut you off there , if we 're going by the rules that were pointed out by the house . mr. bezan . mr. james bezan : thank you , mr . chair . through you to minister sajjan again , i 'm going to change gears a bit . i know that back in early january , military intelligence through cf intelligence command was reporting , through the chain of command , the novel coronavirus and the outbreak in wuhan . on what date was he , as minister of national defence , given his first intelligence briefing on the outbreak and the pandemic in china ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : mr . chair , we have been following this crisis from day one . we work with our five eyes intelligence sources and this has been a whole-of-government effort , right from the beginning . i can assure you that our response to this pandemic has been with all the necessary information . obviously , i ca n't discuss the intelligence in this forum , but i can assure you that our response has been well informed with the correct information . mr. james bezan : minister sajjan , we know that intelligence was going up the chain of command in national defence . it was reported in the media that in early january the hierarchy within the canadian armed forces was being made aware of the coronavirus outbreak . i asked you , minister , when you became aware of it and what you did with that intelligence . hon . harjit s. sajjan : mr . chair , i get regular briefings on intelligence . yes , i was made aware of this in january . as with all our intelligence , we work together from a whole-of-government perspective with all of our intelligence agencies . one thing i can assure you is that our response has been well informed with all the correct information that is provided to me and other members of cabinet . mr. james bezan : what was that timeline ? from the time you were first told , minister sajjan , about the coronavirus outbreak in wuhan , what did you do with that intelligence ? when did you give it to the prime minister or to minister hajdu as the minister of health ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , let me say that our government 's response to this global pandemic has of course been informed by the excellent work of canadian intelligence agencies throughout . we have been working on this from very early on . on january 2 , phac first spoke with provincial health authorities to alert them to the situation . on january 14 , it convened a meeting of all provincial health authorities . in january , the prime minister convened a meeting of the incident response group , and in january we increased screening at all major airports . all of these actions were informed by the work of our excellent intelligence community , and of course our work with our five eyes , nato and norad allies . mr. james bezan : i want to come back the chair : we now move to mr.ste-marie . mr. james bezan : i still have 30 seconds left . mr. gabriel ste-marie ( joliette , bq ) : can i go ahead , mr.chair ? the chair : yes , go ahead . mr. gabriel ste-marie : thank you , mr.chair . in an interview with grald fillion , tax expert andr lareau , who specializes in tax havens , pointed out that $ 350billion canadian is parked in just 12tax havens . companies are using tax havens for financing , operations and intellectual property activities . mr.lareau also notes that the government is aware that all of this canadian money is stashed in tax havens but is doing nothing about it . he said that it 's time for canada to tackle the problem given that it has a $ 250-billion deficit , and that if it does n't act now to change things , it never will . is the government going to seize this opportunity to outlaw the corporate use of tax havens ? hon . diane lebouthillier ( minister of national revenue ) : mr.chair , as soon as we took office , in 2015 , our government made cracking down on tax evaders in canada and abroad a priority . that 's precisely why we put nearly a billion dollars towards that effort . i realize that my fellow member is impatient , but he has to understand that this is a very complex issue . under our leadership , in three years , the canada revenue agency has undertaken twice as many audits related to offshore tax evasion as it did in the 10years the conservatives were in power . as we speak , the agency is conducting more than 50criminal investigations tied to international tax evasion . i repeat , this is a top priority for our government . mr. gabriel ste-marie : you 're right , i am very impatient , because whenever i bring up the fact that companies are using tax havens legally , the minister misses the point and tells me that she is going after fraudsters . i am talking about the legal use of tax havens by companies . since parliament began sitting virtually , it 's been mentioned a few times that denmark and poland have decided to deal with the issue . even france 's finance minister , bruno lemaire , said that companies with subsidiaries in tax havens would not be eligible for public assistance . we hear theprime minister and other government officials say all the time that the wage subsidies are going to workers , so i 'd like to cite another examplebanks . the government is injecting huge amounts of cash into the financial system and repurchasing troubled assets in massive quantities , and yet , the five major banks in toronto , alone , are continuing to save billions of dollars every year by artificially redirecting their profits to tax havens . this is unacceptable . this has nothing to do with wages for workers , and everything to do with the repurchase of troubled assets , cash flow and billions of dollars that the government could be going after . is the government going to seize this opportunity to make the corporate use of tax havens illegal ? hon . diane lebouthillier : mr.chair , our government is taking unprecedented steps through the canada emergency wage subsidy measure to support businesses and workers affected by covid-19 . this is largely a trust-based program , and we will not tolerate abuse . anyone who tries to bypass the rules will face serious consequences . applicants have to designate an individual to attest to the truth of their claim . what 's more , any employer receiving the subsidy who is deemed ineligible will have to repay the full amount . anyone who abuses the program could face a fine of up to 225 % of the wage subsidy amount and up to five years in prison . the canada revenue agency also has a myriad of tools at its disposal to detect a fraudulent claim . as i mentioned , cracking down on tax evasion is a priority for our government . the chair : mr.ste-marie , you have about 30seconds to ask your question , and about the same for the answer . mr. gabriel ste-marie : thank you , mr.chair . that 's an excellent answer , but it has nothing to do with my question . the minister of finance has the power to fix the problem now . although completely immoral , the use of tax havens by companies is legal under section5907 of the income tax regulations . through simple regulatory amendments , the finance minister could put an end to this kind of abuse . we are going to have a $ 250-billion deficit to pay off , and everyone is going to have to chip in , including the rich who are currently taking advantage of the system . hon . diane lebouthillier : mr.chair , thanks to a historic billion-dollar investment , our government has given the agency the resources it needs to do the job , and we are starting to see results . i set up an expert advisory committee to provide us with guidance and recommendations . we tightened the rules for the voluntary disclosures program . we signed tax information exchange agreements with a number of countries . we audit four jurisdictions a year . we also work closely with the oecd . the chair : we now move on to another member . the next questioner is mr. rogers . mr. churence rogers ( bonavistaburintrinity , lib . ) : mr . chair , i 'm sharing my time slot with the member for surreynewton . in the wake of covid-19 , so many canadians have been affected in so many ways . financial loss and other burdens are having a huge impact on families across our country . i 'm proud of how the government of canada has been beside canadians through every step of this pandemic and has supported canadians when they needed it most . in bonavistaburintrinity and across our country , our commercial fishery has seen many challenges and impacts . last week , my colleague , the minister of fisheries and oceans , announced an investment that will ensure resilience of the food system by allowing canada 's fish and seafood processing sector to safely and efficiently process , store , package and distribute healthy , high-quality products on to the plates of canadians . the fish harvesters in my riding are fearful of what will happen within this industry and their immediate futures . they are facing a reduction in available markets and market prices . they are asking what our government is putting in place to assist in these extremely challenging times . when can we expect to hear an answer to our harvesters ' requests for assistance ? hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , i want to thank my colleague from bonavistaburintrinity for keeping us well aware of what 's happening in his riding with harvesters and with processors . we know how important the fish and seafood sector is to our rural communities , our coastal communities . it 's the backbone and the lifeblood of our communities and that 's why we want to be there to support them . we 've already taken steps by making sure that the cerb is now able to be accessed by people who are seasonal workers . as well , we are making sure that people who are running out of fishers ei are also able to qualify for it . we also have made an investment of $ 62.5 million to support our processors to make sure they are able to be ready for the challenges that they are going to face because of covid-19 . we know there is more to do . we know that the harvesters need support . we are working with our partners across industry to make sure we 're hearing what their major concerns are . we know they are going to have some very challenging times this season . we will have more to say about that and what we will be able to do in the coming days . the chair : the next questioner is mr. dhaliwal . mr. sukh dhaliwal ( surreynewton , lib . ) : mr . chair , in my riding of surreynewton , i 'm in close contact with businesses that represent all the chair : we have a point of order . mr. kurek . mr. damien kurek ( battle rivercrowfoot , cpc ) : sorry , but there seems to be an issue with the audio . i 'm unable to hear the honourable member . the chair : it is very faint . mr. dhaliwal , can you check your audio to make sure everything 's working well ? mr. sukh dhaliwal : it was the chair : there we go . it 's fine now . i think what happened was the boom had fallen down and it was n't being picked up . there you go . very good . mr. sukh dhaliwal : mr . chair , in my riding of surreynewton , i 'm in close contact with businesses that represent all vantage points in the supply chainfrom manufacturers to retailers , transport companies to warehousing . with provinces and territories moving at different speeds and implementing different protocols for reopening the economy , there is a lot of confusion in my local business community on the timing and logistics of how this will happen . with so many different parts of the supply chain operating in different jurisdictions , and with each business serving unique roles on this spectrum , how can the federal government serve to best coordinate with the provinces and territories so that the supply chain can be implemented smoothly as we embark on our economic recovery ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i 'd like to thank my colleague for his question and for his hard work . one of the most important things the federal government can do when it comes to the reopening of the canadian economy is to work in close collaboration with the premiers of the provinces and territories . that 's why i was so pleased that last week the prime minister , together with all the first ministers of the country , was able to issue a statement around the principles that will be guiding our entire country as we move towards a restart . this is so important because , as my colleague has pointed out , all of our business , our economic activity , happens across the country . it happens across provincial and territorial boundaries . i would really also like to take this opportunity to thank the first ministers across the country . they belong to different parties , but everyone has really been able to put partisanship aside . we have been able to work together in fighting coronavirus , and we are going to work together in the future to keep on fighting coronavirus and to reopen canada . thank you . the chair : the next question goes to ms. mcpherson . ms. heather mcpherson ( edmonton strathcona , ndp ) : thank you , mr . chair , for the opportunity to represent my constituents virtually during this challenging period of physical distancing . i 'd like to start by asking about supports for workers . in alberta , meat-packing plants are directly responsible for nearly a quarter of all covid-19 cases . the government and management ignored the pleas of workers and did not put effective safety protocols in place to deal with covid-19 . now , two workers are dead , at least six more are in intensive care and covid-19 is spreading like wildfire through these communities . there are over 1,400 cases . yesterday , employees were forced back to work even though their concerns had not been addressed . on march 27 , regarding the cerb , the minister of finance said that if workers do n't feel comfortable in their work , if they decide to stay home , they can apply for the benefit , yet the website says differently . will the minister guarantee that every canadian receiving cerb , ei or the cesb will not lose their benefits if they refuse to return to work or to accept work that is unsafe due to covid-19 ? hon . chrystia freeland : let me thank the member , first of all , for her really very important question . i think all of us share the concern for canada 's essential workers who are keeping us safe , putting food on our tables and often working in difficult conditions . when it comes to the cargill plant , this is an issue that our government has been very closely engaged in . my colleague , the minister of agriculture , has spoken with her provincial counterpart and the head of the plant . the decisions about suspending and reopening are taken by local and provincial health authorities . to the question my colleague asked about workers , it is absolutely the case that no canadian should feel they need to work in an environment that is unsafe , and it is also very much the case that any canadian who is feeling unwell should stay at home . this is the way that collectively we take care of ourselves and we take care the chair : we will go on to ms. mcpherson for the next question . ms. heather mcpherson : i just want to be clear , because i 'm not a hundred per cent sure that i got an answer in that response , so i 'll try one more time . knowing that workers have a fundamental right to refuse unsafe work , can the minister confirm one hundred per cent that if workers refuse unsafe work , they will be able to access the cerb , or was the minister of finance incorrect when he spoke on march 27 ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . chrystia freeland : i 'm sorry , but i was struggling with my mute button . i apologize . let me just be very clear . no canadian worker at any time should feel obliged to go to work in unsafe conditions . ms. heather mcpherson : but then could they access the cerb ? hon . chrystia freeland : in a time of coronavirus that is even more the case , and the government of course should not penalize workers for doing the right thing and declining to go to work in unsafe conditions . the chair : i want to remind the honourable members to place their questions through the chair to avoid back and forth , just to try to keep some order in the meeting . ms. mcpherson , please continue . ms. heather mcpherson : i 'm sorry , chair . i have another question on the protection for workers . at the meat-packing plant , workers are calling for the plant to be shut down . in fact , we know that 85 % of workers are afraid for their safety . if the provincial government wo n't shut down the plant , will the federal government shut down unsafe plants through the canadian food inspection agency ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , on the canadian food inspection agency , let me be very clear that my colleague , the minister of agriculture , has been in touch with provincial authorities . she has been in touch with the plant . the duties of the food inspection agency , of course , are to ensure that the food produced at the plant is safe . that is what inspectors are trained to do and what they are focused on . we are working closely with provincial authorities and with health authorities to ensure that the chair : we will go back to ms. mcpherson . ms. heather mcpherson : mr . chair , this will be one of my final questions on the meat-packing plant in alberta . can the finance minister please let us know if cargill , a company that is owned by billionaires , with business in luxembourg , a known tax haven , has received any federal funding this year for covid-related support ? hon . diane lebouthillier : this is a tough time for canadians , and our government is doing everything it can to support them . more than 7million canadians have applied for the canada emergency response benefit , which the canada revenue agency and service canada administer . i want to say how proud i am of the work the agency is doing ; staff worked tirelessly to get the program up and running in record time . ministerqualtrough is responsible for developing the eligibility criteria and processing the claims . the chair : we are moving on to the next question . we 'll continue now with mr. bragdon . mr. richard bragdon ( tobiquemactaquac , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . my question today is for the prime minister . potato farmers in new brunswick and across canada are sitting on massive stores of potatoes that were destined for the restaurant industry , but due to the pandemic , they now have no customers . it 's estimated that there is $ 300 million worth of potatoes still sitting in storage . what is the prime minister 's plan for the helping farmers offload these potatoes so that they are ready for the 2020 season ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i think all of us as canadians are proud of the great potato farmers across the country . we are aware that the coronavirus , by keeping us away from restaurants where we eat french fries , has had a profound effect on the market for potatoes . the program announced today by the prime minister and my colleague , the minister of agriculture , will be very helpful for potato farmers , including with the surplus food program that starts with a $ 50 million fund , and that the chair : we 'll go back to mr. bragdon now . mr. richard bragdon : mr . chair , thank you . with an estimated $ 300 million worth of potatoes in storage , the announced funding from the government today simply does n't go far enough . in 2018 the new brunswick potato industry lost over $ 20 million . it is estimated this year that the financial loss will exceed $ 40 million . for many producers still recovering from the hit they took in 2018 , another major loss is totally unacceptable . how does the prime minister plan to mitigate these shortfalls and allow farmers to continue to grow the food we so desperately need ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the honourable member spoke about farmers generally . the program today is $ 252 million , which comes on top of the broad range of other programs that farmers , of course , have access to . on potato farmers , in particular , i agree with the honourable member that this is a specific area of concern . i think all canadians would like to see those potatoes not be wasted but be used , and that 's why the $ 50 million for surplus food purchase is going to be so helpful . mr. richard bragdon : mr . chair , farmers across all agricultural sectors are hurting during this pandemic . the $ 16-billion beef industry is expected to take a massive hit due to the closures and reduced production of the meat-packing plants . does the government truly believe that the announced $ 125 million that is shared between beef , poultry and pork producers will be enough to support these multi-billion dollar industries so they can put food on the tables of canadians ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i absolutely agree with the honourable member that our beef , pork and poultry producers are absolutely essential for our country . i am very pleased as a canadian that we have security that comes from being a country that produces not only enough food for ourselves , but also enough food to feed the world . that is why the $ 125 million specifically to support our beef , pork and poultry producers is going to be so helpful . mr. richard bragdon : mr . chair , the government 's announcement of $ 252 million for the agriculture sector falls well short of the canadian federation of agriculture 's request for immediate government relief for farmers . the president of the canadian federation of agriculture , mary robinson , put it today something like this : that if the farmhouse is on fire , the government has offered the equivalent of a bucket of water . this will not go nearly far enough to help those in a desperate situation . does the government have a plan to offer more than just crumbs to keep the vital agriculture sector operating and providing the food we so desperately need ? when will the government finally make those who literally keep our land and grow our food a priority in this time of crisis ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i do n't know about the honourable member , but where i come from , $ 252 million is not just crumbs . i know that canadian farmers do n't feel that $ 252 million is nothing , either . i would like to take this opportunity to highlight two other aspects of the essential support for farmers that we announced today : the $ 77 million to support food processors , which will not only be important for the processors , but helpful for the farmers who produce products that go to them ; and the $ 250 million that we would like to add to the canadian dairy commission 's line of credit to raise it to half a billion dollars , which will be very helpful to our essential dairy farmers . the chair : now we 'll go to the next question . go ahead , mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall ( yorktonmelville , cpc ) : mr . chair , a couple in my riding has had to shut down their business , and they are on cerb . they were shocked when their 16-year-old son also qualified , and he is receiving $ 8,000 on the basis of part-time work throughout the school year . why is the government handing out a windfall to teenagers who are living at home while denying university students and ignoring seniors on fixed incomes ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , any individual who has lost work for covid reasons is eligible for the cerb , regardless of their personal circumstances . if you made $ 5,000 in the past year and are a resident of canada , you qualify for the cerb . this is not a matter of differentiating between the personal circumstances of individuals but of acknowledging that many workers in different situations have lost their work or have had their work significantly reduced because of covid . mrs. cathay wagantall : clearly , high school students would not have the same needs as university students and our seniors who are suffering at this time . the government 's own findings on banning handguns and assault firearms state , in all cases the data does not conclusively demonstrate that these handgun or assault weapon bans have led to reductions in gun violence . why is the prime minister so bent on penalizing law-abiding firearms owners when he should be focusing on funding our cbsa officers first , giving them the resources they need to seize smuggled firearms at our borders ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , i note with some interest that when we brought forward legislation in a budget in the last two years to increase the number of officers at the border , the member opposite voted against it . i 'm very pleased to hear that she now supports it . let us be very clear . the evidence is overwhelming that these weapons are designed to be used , and have been used , to kill innocent people . countries that adopt sensible gun policiesplaces like new zealand , australia , the united kingdomhave all recognized that there 's no place for these weapons in a civil society . we promised canadians that we would act on that concern . there have been far too many people killed with these weapons , and even most recently , to honour and respect the terrible tragedy in nova scotia , the time to act is now , and we 've acted . mrs. cathay wagantall : last week the minister of agriculture said , step by step we are giving our farmers ... the tools they need to continue their ... work . on april 30 , the canadian federation of agriculture called on the minister to create a $ 2.6-billion fund to maintain food security in canada . this morning , the prime minister announced $ 252 million , hit-and-miss , across the agriculture sector . with all due respect , this is a slap in the face to our farmers and the agri-food sector . instead of being here to speak to this announcement , the minister has chosen to do a press conference . this certainly reveals how seriously the minister takes this virtual sitting and parliamentary accountability . if the deputy minister is going to answer the question in her place , how does she see it is right to be providing $ 9 billion to students and only crumbs to our agriculture sector ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , first of all , let me say i do not , as has now been suggested by two members opposite , consider it in any way shameful that i should be answering questions about our support for the agricultural sector . our government strongly supports our farmers . i have to say i personally very strongly support our farmers and have a strong personal connection to them . the $ 252 million of support is real and meaningful , and it is directed exactly where it is needed . it is directed at food processors , beef and pork producers and the dairy sector . as to the question about students , let me just point out that farm kids are students too , and farm kids will be benefiting from the support for students . i know they , their parents and grandparents are very mrs. cathay wagantall : time is up . the chair : mr.lehoux , the next question goes to you . mr. richard lehoux ( beauce , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . meat packing plants like quebec-based olymel are extremely worried that they wo n't be able to stay open throughout the pandemic . in the summer , these plants rely on students to do overtime and fill in for full-time employees on vacation . however , the canada emergency student benefit makes it possible for these much-needed workers to stay home while still collecting the same amount of money . that 's why the government must adjust its current summer job program for students in the agriculture and agri-food sectors . when is the government going to make these critical changes ? hon . carla qualtrough : i can assure you that we are doing our best efforts to not disincentivize work . we know we need to support students with income support , but we also need to create jobs . we are looking at ways we can create additional jobs through canada summer jobs , through the the chair : there is a point of order . mrs. claude debellefeuille ( salaberrysurot , bq ) : mr.chair , what the minister is saying is not being interpreted . the chair : we 'll just check to see how the technology is going . is everything okay now ? mrs. claude debellefeuille : yes , it 's working . the chair : let 's try that again , minister . hon . carla qualtrough : last week , as part of the measures announced around supporting our students , we announced the creation of 76,000 additional jobs , including jobs in the agriculture and processing sectors . we know we need to work directly with employers to ensure they have the people they need . this is exactly what we 're doing through our youth employment and skills strategy , and that 's what we 'll continue to do . we wo n't apologize for supporting students with income support in these difficult times . mr. richard lehoux : i 'm not sure the minister understood my question about the canada emergency student benefit . i am very concerned about the agricultural sector , but the tourist and horticultural sectors are also on my mind . a number of business owners in my riding have reached out to me because the shortage of student workers is forcing them to shut down for the summer . this government has pulled the rug out from under them with the benefit it introduced for students . minister , what do you have to say to those business owners in the tourist and horticultural sectors whom you are not helping ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , with all due respect , i believe we are helping students . we 've heard very clearly from the students that they want to work and want to serve in their communities in this time of crisis . that 's why we 're creating additional employment opportunities and an income support mechanism that allows them to work . we 're going to continue to look at ways we can support them through additional opportunities this summer . we know they want to work and they want to serve . mr. richard lehoux : i hope that we 'll see some concrete results . pork and beef producers are feeling the impact of the country 's shutdown triggered by the pandemic . processing plants are suspending operations and buyers are tearing up their contracts . for the past five years , the government has been saying that the programs to help producers will be improved . now more than ever , producers need these programs . however , the programs have n't been reviewed yet . when will the government make these changes , including the changes to agristability , and when can producers access them ? hon . chrystia freeland : we announced over $ 77 million in assistance for food processors to help them protect their workers and deal with the costs associated with the coronavirus . to help livestock and pork producers , we established agrirecovery , a national initiative that will provide $ 125million to help producers adapt to market changes . we 're launching the chair : mr.lehoux has the floor . mr. richard lehoux : thank you , mr.chair . i understand some of what the minister is saying . the measures announced at noon today received a very cold reception from the entire agriculture and agri-food sector , since the sector had asked for about $ 2.6billion . i think that it 's important to support our agri-food industry and our farms , given the significant need for sovereignty . many canadians in the agriculture and agri-food sector have made this clear , as i was saying earlier . something must be done quickly , before our country becomes completely dependent on its neighbours . has the government considered making significant changes to the various programs currently in place ? hon . chrystia freeland : our country , canada , will never depend on its neighbours or any other country for food . canada is a major beef , pork and grain producer . canada is an agricultural superpower and we should all take pride in that . i want to mention another significant part of our announcement today , which is the $ 50million surplus food purchase program . this is very significant . i think that all canadians must support this initiative . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ( brossardsaint-lambert , lib . ) ) : we 'll now move on to the next question . mr.calkins , the member for reddeerlacombe , has the floor . mr. blaine calkins ( red deerlacombe , cpc ) : madam chair , how will the government 's forced confiscation of law-abiding firearms owners ' property prevent criminals from illegally acquiring firearms from the united states ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , in response to that , i would simply remind the member that we have made it very clear that these weapons have no place in civil society , so we have prohibited military-style assault weapons that have been designed to be used to kill people and have been used to kill people . i would also advise the member we will bring forward legislation to deal more effectively at the border . we 'll make significant new investments in border services officers and in police . we 'll bring forward new authorities , new offences , new penalties to deal with people who smuggle weapons across the border . we 're also bringing in new regulations for the storage of weapons to make it more difficult for people to steal these guns . to deal with people who purchase them illegally and sell them illegally , there will be new offences and penalties to make ensure that they face the consequences . mr. blaine calkins : the government previously has said that decisions like classifying firearms should be left to experts . the recent decision was purely political and it flies in the face of evidence-based policy . a legal opinion that 's already been obtained says that the bore of a 12-gauge shotgun with the choke removed is in excess of 20 millimetres . that means every 12-gauge shotgun with a choke in it with that choke removed is now prohibited . that is the same firearm that olympic trap shooters , olympic skeet shooters , duck hunters and geese hunters all across our country use on a very regular basis . why did the government abandon an evidence-based policy ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , i 'm pleased to have the opportunity to correct the member . first of all , we have prohibited large-bore weapons , such as grenade launchers , but with reference to the 10-gauge shotgun and the 12-gauge shotgun , i would simply remind the member that the bore of a 10-gauge shotgun is 19.69 millimetres in width and the bore of a 12-gauge shotgun is 18.53 millimetres in width , both of them under the size for prohibition and therefore not covered in the new prohibitions that the government introduced on friday . i 'm afraid his expert opinion is wrong . mr. blaine calkins : madam chair , the opinion is that of one of the foremost experts we have in canada when it comes to firearms legislation . if the entirety of the barrel length is considered , then the removal of the choke makes that barrel in excess of 20 millimetres . i would appreciate the minister clarifying that for law-abiding firearms owners . there is no plan for a buyback program in this policy , and law-abiding firearms owners are not able currently to surrender their firearms . given this , and the fact that law-abiding firearms owners are n't committing any gun violence , what was the government 's immediate benefit of making this announcement on may 1 ? hon . bill blair : thank you , and i 'm very grateful for the opportunity to clarify . along with the prohibition that we have put in place , we have also , using the order in council , established an amnesty period , but the amnesty period is non-permissive grandfathering of those weapons . they can not be used , they ca n't be taken to the range for shooting , they ca n't be used for hunting , they ca n't be sold and they ca n't be transferred , so we have put in strong measures to ensure that these weapons will not be available for use . we have also put in an amnesty period that will allow us to bring forward the legislation and a budget in order to effect a responsible , safe and effective buyback program to remove these weapons from society . i look forward to the member 's support for those measures as we go forward . mr. blaine calkins : madam chair , since january 1 , 2002 , any law-abiding citizen who was issued with a firearms licence by the government would have been cross-referenced with a continuous eligibility check 6,695 times up until may 1 of this year . how many times was this most recent mass murderer here in canada checked against a criminal database since january 2002 ? hon . bill blair : as the member is probably aware , there is a very extensive investigation currently being conducted into that individual and how he acquired his firearms , and it 's not appropriate to discuss that . however , i think what is appropriate is to recognize that the weapons that this individual had available to him are weapons that were not designed for target shooting or hunting purposes or any sporting purposes . they were designed for soldiers to kill soldiers . in the hands of someone who is intent on mass murder , they represent an unacceptable and deadly risk to canadians , and that 's why we have prohibited them . i 'd also remind the member that other countries that have adopted sensible gun control laws , such as new zealand , australia and the united kingdom , have also implemented very similar bans . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : now we will go to the hon . member for nanaimoladysmith , mr. manly . mr. paul manly ( nanaimoladysmith , gp ) : thank you , madam chair . i 'd like to start by giving my condolences for the crew from the hmcs fredericton who died , and in particular to the family of captain kevin hagen . he was originally a constituent from nanaimoladysmith . other countries are strongly recommending that all citizens wear masks wherever people gather indoors , including in schools , on public transit and in stores . taiwan has effectively stopped the spread of the coronavirus by supplying people with masks and installing dispensers of hand sanitizer throughout public spaces . the taiwanese do not do a lot of testing or contact tracing . they do not have a lockdown . taiwan started in the top 10 countries affected by covid-19 , and today it is number 119 . will canada follow taiwan 's example so we can lift the lockdown safely and get canadians back to work ? hon . patty hajdu ( minister of health ) : thank you very much , madam chair , and i thank the member for his question . there 's no doubt that masks can play a role in a layered approach to protecting canadians ' health and safety , but as the member has mentioned , there are many other aspects to ensuring that canadians are safe no matter where they go . for example , it is of utmost importance that canadians practise social distancing . social distancing can provide the most protection , in fact , when you 're out in public or you 're in another place where there are other people . wearing a non-medical mask can add a layer of protection , and certainly dr. tam has said that when physical distancing is not an option , canadians should consider wearing a mask . mr. paul manly : thank you . i 'd like to give a shout-out to martha and her team , who are doing a fundraiser for the spca by making masks for citizens in my riding . madam chair , many people are falling through the cracks in the pandemic relief plan , including seniors who face an increase in the cost of living and a loss of retirement investment income . will the government make the cerb a universal benefit to ensure that all canadians who need help get help ? if not , will the government increase old age security and allow seniors to withdraw funds from their rrsp without penalties so that they can pay their bills ? hon . deb schulte : thank you very much , and i really appreciate the question . we do recognize that oas and gis are very important parts of the retirement income of canadians , particularly lower-income seniors . we 've already introduced measures like the gst credit supplement to help seniors . the cerb is there for working seniors who have lost income as a result of covid-19 . we 've also reduced the mandatory retirement withdrawals by 25 % , and we 've also spent half a billion dollars to support organizations that assist vulnerable canadians , including seniors the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : we are going back to mr. manly . thank you . hon . deb schulte : i do recognize that there 's more to be done . thank you . mr. paul manly : many small businesses do not meet the eligibility requirements for the various relief programs on offer , particularly sole proprietorships . i have a long list of businesses in my riding that are missing out . at the same time , we have large companies in this country that use tax havens and loopholes to avoid paying their fair share of public services . will the government ensure that the needs of small businesses are met and withhold relief from corporations that use tax havens to avoid paying taxes in canada ? hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : i want to thank the hon . member for the question . small businesses are indeed incredibly important to all of our communities across the country . that is why we have implemented many measures to help them weather this difficult period in covid-19 . whether it is a small business loan , a wage subsidy or commercial rent assistance , or just lowering the cost by deferring gst or hst or customs duties , many measures have been put forward to help our small businesses through this very difficult time . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : mr. manly , you may have a very short question . mr. paul manly : thank you , madam chair . as we navigate this pandemic crisis , we are also in the middle of another major crisis : the climate emergency . will this government develop its economic recovery plan for the pandemic with the climate emergency at the forefront of its planning ? the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : the hon . minister has 15 seconds . hon . jonathan wilkinson ( minister of environment and climate change ) : thank you for the question . the focus of the government at the present time is on combatting the virus and on steps to start to relax some of the measures that have been taken . as we look forward , we need to learn from the experiences of this crisis as well as look forward to some of the looming crises on the horizon . climate change is one of those , and we certainly intend to reflect on resilience for the economy as we move forward . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : now we will go to ms. ashton . ms. niki ashton ( churchillkeewatinook aski , ndp ) : thank you , madam chair . my question is to the minister of indigenous services . first nations across northern manitoba and many others across the country have been doing everything possible to keep covid-19 out of their communities . many here have implemented strict lockdowns or travel restrictions , but the federal government has done virtually nothing to deal with the chronic issues that have made them vulnerable in the first place , such as overcrowded housing and the lack of hospitals . we have to be very concerned about a possible second deadly wave of covid-19 . what is your government doing to support communities in the face of that possibility ? why is n't the government supporting the call for a ventilation centre in berens river , a hospital in cross lake , a hospital in the island lake region ? if the government could n't act in time for this first wave of the pandemic , can it at least act in time for a potential second wave ? hon . marc miller ( minister of indigenous services ) : indeed , madam chair , one of the reflections we have in coming out of this global pandemic is that we do n't want to go into the next one with the same social determinants of health that have made indigenous communities more vulnerable and more susceptible to contracting and then spreading covid-19 . a lot of the historic housing funds that we have mobilized in order to address overcrowding in particular are cold comfort to those communities that are still finding themselves in overcrowded situations . in the staged approach to the epidemic and the onset of covid-19 , there are many measures that indigenous services canada and as a whole of government we will deploy , including surge capacity , increased ppe , and nurses and doctors . obviously , we are looking for a medical solution to a medical problem , and that is what we will spare no expense or resource to address as indigenous communities continue to face the looming threat of a second wave of covid-19 as they start to relax some of their confinement procedures . ms. niki ashton : again , madam chair , to the minister of indigenous services , many of us across northern canada are deeply concerned by the outbreak taking place in northern saskatchewan , centred in la loche . the outbreak started from a worker who came back from a work camp in fort mcmurray . these camps are making workers sick , and they are proving deadly for first nations and northern communities . these work camps put public health at risk during a pandemic . your government says it 's committed to doing everything it can to keep first nations safe , yet nothing has been done to support calls for pandemic shutdowns . will you support first nations in their call for shutdowns during this pandemic to save lives now ? hon . marc miller : madam chair , the situation in la loche is a very pressing concern . members wo n't be surprised to know that that number will only increase as the days go on and as we implement aggressive testing and contact tracing . we are working with surrounding first nations and communities and with the mtis and dene communities in la loche to ensure that medical precautions are being put into place and that strict social distancing is being put into effect . this is a situation that is very much evolving minute by minute , and it is something for which we have deployed additional resources , along with meadow lake and the northern inter-tribal health authority to ensure that there is a health response to a health problem . clearly , we need coordination with the provinces to ensure that we have a seamless approach ms. niki ashton : my question referred to la loche , but this is a broader issue . there are many work camps , including here in our north , that first nations are extremely concerned about . will your government step in to support their calls for temporary shutdowns at this time ? hon . marc miller : one of the things we see as we see the evolving dynamic and the potential spreads , particularly the fear of clusters as communities , provinces , territories may choose to relax certain measures , is the need to have a more targeted approach as to how the economy reacts and deals with it , particularly in northern and vulnerable communities . this is something for which we will need to have a serious approach , with both the minister of natural resources and also our provincial counterparts , to make sure that we are n't taking hasty measures to reopen the economy while we 're trying to protectand this is our most important goalindigenous communities from getting exposed and spreading covid-19 . ms. niki ashton : madam chair , my question is for the minister of fisheries . hundreds of fishers and their families here in manitoba who work with the freshwater fish marketing corporation are desperately calling for emergency support . many are calling on the federal government to also work with them and the ffmc to redirect their product to domestic markets and communities here at home to address the growing food insecurity people are facing . when will your government announce support for inland fishers , including here in manitoba , and will you work to ensure that their product , healthy fish , can be provided here at home for people who need it ? hon . bernadette jordan : madam chair , we know that covid-19 is having extreme impacts on northern first nations communities , especially with regard to fisheries in areas that rely on it for not only their livelihoods but also for the cultural importance . indigenous harvesters are able to access through the aboriginal financial institutions the $ 306 million we 've put in for support for indigenous small and medium-sized businesses . the funding allows for short-term interest-free loans as well as for non-repayable contributions . we also announced earlier that the canadian northern economic development agency has made available $ 15 million in non-repayable support for businesses . we know that there 's more that needs to be done to support our first nations communities as well as our harvesters . we 're doing everything we can and we will continue to make sure that we address those needs . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : i need to interrupt you . we 'll now hear from claudedebellefeuille . mrs. claude debellefeuille : thank you , madamchair . i do n't want to talk about tax cheats . i do n't want to talk about the $ 1billion that the government used to track down tax cheats . i want to ask the minister why she is n't taking this opportunity to learn from countries that are putting an end to tax avoidance in tax havens , a legal but immoral practice in this day and age . can she explain why she is n't showing leadership by convincing cabinet to change course and eliminate the legal measure known as tax avoidance , which enables companies to avoid paying taxes and put money in tax havens ? hon . diane lebouthillier : madamchair , as soon as our government took office in 2015 , we made it a priority to crack down on tax cheats . our government 's historic investments of almost $ 1 billion have ensured that the agency can access the necessary resources for its work . we 're already starting to see the results . as i was saying , i established an expert advisory committee to advise us . we 've also been working on tightening the rules of the voluntary disclosures program . we 've entered into country-by-country agreements that make it possible to share information . we 're auditing four countries a year . we 're working with the oecd . currently , over 50 criminal investigations are related to international tax evasion . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : ms.debellefeuille has the floor . mrs. claude debellefeuille : madamchair , does the minister realize that she 's being filmed and recorded and that she is n't answering my question ? i do n't want to talk about cheats . i want to talk about companies that use a legal mechanism to avoid paying taxes and to put their money in tax havens . i can see that she does n't want to answer my question . i 'll ask her another question . can she tell me how many companies legally take advantage of tax avoidance in tax havens ? how much money escapes taxation through this legal mechanism ? the government could invest this money in its economic recovery post-covid-19 . hon . diane lebouthillier : madamchair , i completely understand my colleague 's impatience . however , she must understand that this type of issue is very complex . under the former conservative government , the issue was n't a priority at all . regarding tax evasion abroad , our leadership made it possible for the agency to conduct twice as many audits in three years as it conducted in 10 years under the conservatives . over 50criminal investigations related to international tax evasion are ongoing . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : go ahead , madame debellefeuille . mrs. claude debellefeuille : madamchair , i 'm not impatient . however , i do n't understand the government 's lack of willingness to eliminate this mechanism , which is legal but completely immoral . our questions remain unanswered . my next question is for the minister of finance . the fdration de la relve agricole du qubec and the upa approached the minister of finance two weeks ago and still have n't received a response regarding the following issue . we know that many farms do n't pay wages . as a result , these farms are being penalized because they are n't eligible for the $ 40,000 in loans available through the canada emergency business account . to qualify for these loans , the farms needed a payroll of $ 20,000 to $ 1.5million in 2019 . does the minister of finance plan to respond to the farmers who want to access the $ 40,000 in loans ? hon . bill morneau : thank you , ms.debellefeuille . we know that the canada emergency response benefit must be made available to the people who need it . mr. damien kurek : on a point of order hon . bill morneau : that 's why we 're considering our approach . of course mr. damien kurek : i have a point of order . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : ministermorneau , please wait a moment . a member is raising a point of order . mr. kurek , do you have a point of order ? you have to unmute yourself . mr. damien kurek : yes . it 's that the translation is at the same volume as the minister . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : you 'll have to put yourself on english . rather , the minister has to put himself on french . hon . bill morneau : sorry . i was on the english channel . we know that the people who need the canada emergency response benefit must have access to it . that 's why we 're considering the challenges each time . if i receive a letter , i 'll look at it . once we have a response , we 'll pass it directly on to the member . the chair : the next question will go to mr. richards . mr. blake richards ( banffairdrie , cpc ) : this question is for the tourism minister . the tourism ministry was one of the first and hardest-hit industries during this crisis , yet despite the prime minister 's announcement over three weeks ago now of a plan to bring forward a tourism-specific aid package to help the businesses who employ millions of unemployed canadians who work in tourism , there 's still been nothing from this government . when will the government finally act to provide help to this nearly crippled industry ? hon . mlanie joly ( minister of economic development and official languages ) : mr . chair , obviously we know that the tourism sector has been deeply impacted . i had the chance to talk to many of the leaders in the sector , and clearly there 's a lot of anxiety . we also had the chance to work with all the g20 ministers of tourism all together , and we know we have to act the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. richards . mr. blake richards : i did n't really get much of an answer there . i hear a lot about talking and not much on action . tourism-based communities like the ones in banff and canmore , which i represent , are tourism-based economies and have unemployment rates of 85 % or higher . they also do n't qualify for a lot of the programs because they 're seasonal businesses and make most or all of their revenues for the year from may to october , so they 're at risk of losing their entire season . i have a couple of very specific questions . will the government consider making changes to the programs to make sure that seasonal businesses can get help ? what does the government plan to do to help the tourism industry recover after the pandemic ? hon . mlanie joly : thank you . obviously , the tourism sector has access to many measures , including the ceba account , the $ 40,000 account . they also have access to the wage subsidy . they have access to rent relief . they will be having access also to funding through the regional development agencies , and we 'll be coming up with the details soon . of course , in my colleague 's riding of banff , which is a fantastic place and a tourism gem , they will have access to the support through wd , western economic diversification . if there are particular cases you would like to raise with me , i would be more than happy to talk to you to see how , on the ground , we can help the tourism operators . mr. blake richards : mr . chair , clearly the tourism minister has n't been listening . she says she 's talking to the industry . she 's not hearing their concerns . what she just said does not address many of the concerns they have about being seasonal industries . it does n't address anything about their concerns about the hard economic recovery they 'll have after the pandemic . let 's try another minister and see if we can get some answers . another industry that 's very hard hit in my province and my riding is the oil and gas industry . it 's another industry the prime minister has promised to help , but there has n't been anything . clearly there 's a pattern here . the only so-called assistance there 's been to help hurting albertans in the oil patch has been measures to speed up the death of the industry that they work in . will the liberal government ever show any concern for albertans ? will they bring forward a plan to preserve canadian jobs ? will they put forward a plan to ensure the use of canadian oil before oil coming in from places like saudi arabia ? hon . seamus o'regan ( minister of natural resources ) : in fact , mr . chair , the federal government has taken several steps in recent weeks that will meaningfully support workers and communities that depend on this industry . we have the canada emergency wage subsidy , which covers 75 % of an employee 's wages for the employer . we have more liquidity for oil and gas companies through new loans of $ 15 million to $ 60 million from the business development bank of canada . we continue to step forward in our response to the impacts of covid-19 on my province here in newfoundland and labrador and on alberta and saskatchewan . these three provinces are being hit by two crises at the same time , a crisis of demand for oil and gas on the world markets and of course a crisis of public health with covid-19 . mr. blake richards : mr . chair , a lot of these things we 're hearing about are n't going to actually help the industry to recover . what we need to see is the government give the industry and the private sector the opportunity to succeed . maybe what they could do is consider expediting the approval of billions of dollars of private sector projects that would put thousands and thousands of canadians back to work . will the government consider looking at ways that we can expedite projects ? will they look at ways that we can encourage the use of canadian oil before the use of oil coming in from places like saudi arabia ? hon . seamus o'regan : mr . chair , we have been working with our provincial partners . we have been working with businesses of all sizes in the oil and gas industry . we have been working with labour , concentrating on workers and concentrating on the companies that support those jobs to make sure that they remain whole and those jobs will be there for those workers . we 're particularly proud of our orphan wells program , which was launched by the alberta government in conjunction with us . it was launched last week . i am pleased to inform this house that the uptake on applications for that program is significantly higher than even we expected . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about introduction of petitions and prioritization of government matters . </s> the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : i call the meeting to order . welcome to the third meeting of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . pursuant to the order of reference of monday , april20 , the committee is meeting for the purposes of considering ministerial announcements , allowing members to present petitions , and questioning ministers of the crown , including the prime minister , in respect of the covid-19 pandemic . i understand there 's an agreement to observe a moment of silence in memory of the six members of the canadian armed forces who lost their lives last wednesday in a helicopter crash off the coast of greece . we 'll return to order . colleagues , we meet today to continue our discussion about how our country is dealing with the covid-19 pandemic . as we do , canadians , like everyone around the world , are doing their best to live their lives until things improve . meanwhile , as we look towards the future , i believe that it is also important to remember our past and to continue to mark the important moments in our shared history . at this very moment , the dominion carillonneur , dr. andrea mccrady , is performing a special recital to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the netherlands by the canadian forces . in may 1945 , canadian forces played a major role in liberating the dutch people from nazi occupation . may 5 is now a national holiday in the netherlands that commemorates the event and the great friendship that now exists between our two countries . today 's meeting is taking place by video conference . the proceedings will be made available via the house of commons website . please be aware that the webcast will always show the person speaking rather than the entire committee . let me remind you that , as in the house or in committee , members may not take photographs of their colleagues or film the proceedings . in order to facilitate the work of our interpreters and ensure orderly meetings , i will outline a few rules . interpretation of this video conference will be done as it is at normal committee meetings and in the house . at the bottom of your screen , you can choose floor , english or french . as you have seen , i change as i am speaking . i have now switched over to english in order to speak english . if you look at the bottom , you have a little flag that indicates whether it 's english or french , and that 's how we will be speaking . it makes it easier . that was where we had a little bit of a glitch in the last session . i understand that there are no statements by ministers . we can now proceed to presenting petitions for a period not exceeding 15 minutes . i would like to remind members that petitions presented during a meeting of the special committee must already have been certified by the clerk of petitions . in addition , to ensure that the petition is considered to have been properly presented , the certificate of the petition and each page of the petition for petitions certified in a previous parliament should be emailed to the committee no later than 6 p.m. on the day before the committee . i thank all the members for their usual co-operation . thank you all . now we 'll proceed to presenting petitions . our first petition comes from the honourable member for sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis ( sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , cpc ) : mr . chair , i 'm pleased to be presenting two petitions today . the first petition is with respect to government bill c-7 . petitioners raised concerns that this bill removes safeguards from the current euthanasia regime . it includes removing the mandatory 10-day reflection period and the number of required witnesses who will witness a person 's consent . the petitioners urge the house of commons to immediately discontinue the removal of safeguards for people requesting euthanasia , and to put in place additional measures to protect vulnerable people . this would require that bill to be amended or not passed . the second petition is with respect to senate public bill s-204 . this is on organ harvesting and trafficking . petitioners call on members of the house , and hopefully the senate as well , to support bill s-204 , which would make it a criminal offence for a person to go abroad and receive an organ for which there has not been consent . it would also create provisions under which a person could be made inadmissible to canada if they had been involved in organ harvesting or trafficking . thank you very much . the chair : thank you . i want to remind all the members that there are specific headsets that have been mandated to all of us . if you do n't have one , please talk to your it ambassador and they will get one to you as quickly as possible . the reason for them is not so much for what you hear , but that our interpreters are working and there are work conditions that really make it difficult . part of that is not having the appropriate boom on your headset , which will make it very difficult for them to hear and interpret for our members . now we go to the member for beacheseast york , mr. erskine-smith . mr. nathaniel erskine-smith ( beacheseast york , lib . ) : mr . chair , i had to learn how to tie my tie all over again . it 's been so long . i want to thank jenna robar , who 's led this petition e-2453 . the petitioners have noted that there are approximately 60 indigenous languages in canada and that 2019 , last year , was declared by the un to be the year of indigenous languages . they draw attention to article 13 of the undrip and to the trc 's calls to action numbers 13 to 16 . fundamentally , they call upon the government of canada to recognize indigenous languages as being official languages of canada and to have each language recognized nationally , with implementations on regional and provincial levels , acknowledging that many regions have different languages . mr. eric duncan ( stormontdundassouth glengarry , cpc ) : mr . chair , i am proud to present a petition on behalf of one of my constituents , myles lynch of st. andrews west in my riding . myles made history as the first canadian ever to survive three double-lung transplants . myles lives with cystic fibrosis and has had three lung transplants in the last five years , and he 's only 22 years old . myles created a documentary called 8 thousand myles , which had a few showings in my riding . it documented his journey across canada . one thing myles has been advocating for is the creation of a national opt-out program for organ donation . myles asked me how he could help raise awareness of that issue . i mentioned to him e-petitions online and getting people across the country to sign them . i am proud to have this certified today , with 1,318 signatures , asking the standing committee on health to launch a study into the feasibility of the creation of a national opt-out program . i give kudos to myles not only for his strength personally but also for his advocacy for others and for saving lives in our country by advocating for a better and an improved organ donation system . kudos to myles . i 'm proud to present this petition today . mr. peter julian ( new westminsterburnaby , ndp ) : mr . chair , i 'm very pleased to present this certified petition on behalf of several dozen residents of toronto , mississauga and brampton , ontario , who add their voices to those of the thousands upon thousands of canadians who have signed similar petitions . given that canadians are living through unprecedented , catastrophic climate events , and at the same time our society , as you know , is suffering from worsening social and economic inequalitieshalf of canadian families are only $ 200 away from insolvency in any given monthand particularly given the pandemic that we are currently experiencing , these petitioners are calling on the government of canada to support motion m-1 , a made-in-canada green new deal that i am presenting in front of the house of commons . it calls on canada to take bold and rapid action to tackle the climate emergency , and to put in place a shift to a clean and renewable energy economy . mr. gord johns ( courtenayalberni , ndp ) : mr . chair , it 's an honour to table a petition on behalf of constituents from courtenayalberni . they are concerned , obviously , about fentanyl-related deaths . over 12,000 canadians have died over the last four years due to fentanyl-poisoned sources . they cite that the current war on drugs has been costly and grossly ineffective ; that it has resulted in widespread stigma towards addiction and against those who use illicit drugs ; and that criminalization of particular substances has resulted in the establishment of a drug trade that now trafficks dangerous and lethal products such as fentanyl . they are citing that regulating to ensure safe sources , with proper measures and bylaws , will reduce the criminal element associated with street drugs . problematic substance use is a health issue and is not resolved through criminalization of personal possession and consumption . they are calling on the government of canada to declare the current opioid overdose and fenanyl poisoning crisis a national public health emergency under the emergencies act . they are calling for the government to reform current drug policy to decriminalize personal possession , as has been done in portugal and other countries , and to create with urgency and immediacy a system to provide safe and unadulterated access to substances so that people who use substances experimentally , recreationally or chronically are not at imminent risk of overdose due to a contaminated source . mr. brad vis ( missionmatsquifraser canyon , cpc ) : mr . chair , i 'm presenting a petition today that contains the concerns of canadians in my riding with the government 's approach to firearms legislation and regulation . the petition highlights that the liberal government 's december 5 , 2019 , speech from the throne contains numerous inaccuracies about current firearms legislation and regulation ; that the term military-style assault rifles is a political phrase undefined in canadian law ; that municipalities are constitutionally unable to enact criminal law to ban handguns in their jurisdictions ; that the experts , including chiefs of police , agree that banning firearms and requiring law-abiding gun owners to follow more unnecessary red tape will not increase public safety ; that the majority of guns used in violent crimes are smuggled into canada from the united states ; and that the liberal government continues to target law-abiding firearms owners instead of the gangs , drug traffickers and illegal gun traffickers responsible for violence in our communities . the petitioners in missionmatsquifraser canyon are calling on the government to stop targeting law-abiding firearms owners ; to cancel all plans to confiscate firearms legally owned by federally licensed , rcmp-vetted canadians ; and to focus our limited resources on anti-gang enforcement , on reducing the involvement of at-risk youth and gangs , on mental health and on providing the canada border services agency with the tools they need to do their job effectively . the chair : very good . that 's all for petitions today . we will now proceed to the questioning of ministers . i would like to remind honourable members that no member shall be recognized for more than five minutes at a time and that members may split their time with one or more members by so indicating to the chair . ministers responding to the question should do so by simply turning on their mike and speaking . i want to again remind honourable members to use the boom on the official headsets so that everything runs smoothly , not only for ourselves but also for the interpreters . we start the question period with mr.paul-hus . mr. pierre paul-hus ( charlesbourghaute-saint-charles , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . although we are right in the middle of a pandemic and the government has agreed to set aside all parliamentary business in order to concentrate solely on eliminating the virus in canada and its impacts , the prime minister is deceiving canadians by introducing measures to punish law-abiding firearm owners . why ? right hon . justin trudeau ( prime minister ) : mr.chair , i feel that all canadians were affected by the massacre in nova scotia . once again , too many families are facing tragedy and tremendous grief . during the last election campaign , we promised to ban military-style assault weapons , and that is exactly what we have done . we will be working with members from all parties in order to continue strengthening gun control . it is a shame that , once more , the conservatives do not want to strengthen gun control in the country . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , i understand the prime minister 's reply . however , i would like to know whether he considers that , with this order in council , organized crime , street gangs and other criminals are simply going to turn in their weapons . right hon . justin trudeau : this is indeed only a first step , but it is an important one . we are doing other things to eliminate or restrict handguns in our municipalities , to strengthen the control at our borders , and to implement other measures . i am pleased to hear the hon . member speak of those measures , because we are going to work together in the house to strengthen gun control . i hope that the conservative party will be part of that discussion in a positive way , in order to keep canadians safe . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , i can simply say to the prime minister that the conservative party has always been committed to battling criminals , not law-abiding citizens . speaking of criminals , we know that , even before the pandemic , the prime minister had asked the parole board of canada to release prisoners more easily and more quickly . now we are learning that , because of the pandemic , some releases are happening very quickly . the minister of public safety told us that the people were approaching the end of their sentences or were older , but we are learning in the media that some dangerous criminals are being released . can the prime minister give us an explanation ? right hon . justin trudeau : the protection , the safety and the health of all canadians are important for the government . this is why we have taken additional measures in our correctional services to ensure that guards and inmates are protected . we have indeed opened the doors to some more speedy releases , but only in very specific cases that present little or no danger for canadians . we have managed to find the right balance . we must protect canadians and we must also ensure that they are safe . those two things go hand-in-hand . mr. pierre paul-hus : so is the prime minister confirming to us that no dangerous criminals have been precipitously released so that they do not have to experience covid-19 within the walls ? right hon . justin trudeau : there are very strict rules and principles to ensure that people posing a threat to society are not released . the chair : mr.paul-hus , you have one minute left . mr. pierre paul-hus : thank you , mr.chair . the chinese government has not been transparent with the rest of the world about the coronavirus . australia asked for an in-depth investigation , but has received threats from the communist regime . is canada going to stand by its allies in the five eyes and demand that the chinese government be completely transparent ? </s>
<s> what did paul-hus think about the introduction of petitions and prioritization of government matters ? </s> mr. pierre paul-hus ( charlesbourghaute-saint-charles , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . although we are right in the middle of a pandemic and the government has agreed to set aside all parliamentary business in order to concentrate solely on eliminating the virus in canada and its impacts , the prime minister is deceiving canadians by introducing measures to punish law-abiding firearm owners . why ? right hon . justin trudeau ( prime minister ) : mr.chair , i feel that all canadians were affected by the massacre in nova scotia . once again , too many families are facing tragedy and tremendous grief . during the last election campaign , we promised to ban military-style assault weapons , and that is exactly what we have done . we will be working with members from all parties in order to continue strengthening gun control . it is a shame that , once more , the conservatives do not want to strengthen gun control in the country . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , i understand the prime minister 's reply . however , i would like to know whether he considers that , with this order in council , organized crime , street gangs and other criminals are simply going to turn in their weapons . right hon . justin trudeau : this is indeed only a first step , but it is an important one . we are doing other things to eliminate or restrict handguns in our municipalities , to strengthen the control at our borders , and to implement other measures . i am pleased to hear the hon . member speak of those measures , because we are going to work together in the house to strengthen gun control . i hope that the conservative party will be part of that discussion in a positive way , in order to keep canadians safe . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , i can simply say to the prime minister that the conservative party has always been committed to battling criminals , not law-abiding citizens . speaking of criminals , we know that , even before the pandemic , the prime minister had asked the parole board of canada to release prisoners more easily and more quickly . now we are learning that , because of the pandemic , some releases are happening very quickly . the minister of public safety told us that the people were approaching the end of their sentences or were older , but we are learning in the media that some dangerous criminals are being released . can the prime minister give us an explanation ? right hon . justin trudeau : the protection , the safety and the health of all canadians are important for the government . this is why we have taken additional measures in our correctional services to ensure that guards and inmates are protected . we have indeed opened the doors to some more speedy releases , but only in very specific cases that present little or no danger for canadians . we have managed to find the right balance . we must protect canadians and we must also ensure that they are safe . those two things go hand-in-hand . mr. pierre paul-hus : so is the prime minister confirming to us that no dangerous criminals have been precipitously released so that they do not have to experience covid-19 within the walls ? right hon . justin trudeau : there are very strict rules and principles to ensure that people posing a threat to society are not released . the chair : mr.paul-hus , you have one minute left . </s>
<s> did the prime minister agree with mr. pierre paul-hus when talking about introduction of petitions and prioritization of government matters ? </s> mr. pierre paul-hus ( charlesbourghaute-saint-charles , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . although we are right in the middle of a pandemic and the government has agreed to set aside all parliamentary business in order to concentrate solely on eliminating the virus in canada and its impacts , the prime minister is deceiving canadians by introducing measures to punish law-abiding firearm owners . why ? right hon . justin trudeau ( prime minister ) : mr.chair , i feel that all canadians were affected by the massacre in nova scotia . once again , too many families are facing tragedy and tremendous grief . during the last election campaign , we promised to ban military-style assault weapons , and that is exactly what we have done . we will be working with members from all parties in order to continue strengthening gun control . it is a shame that , once more , the conservatives do not want to strengthen gun control in the country . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , i understand the prime minister 's reply . however , i would like to know whether he considers that , with this order in council , organized crime , street gangs and other criminals are simply going to turn in their weapons . right hon . justin trudeau : this is indeed only a first step , but it is an important one . we are doing other things to eliminate or restrict handguns in our municipalities , to strengthen the control at our borders , and to implement other measures . i am pleased to hear the hon . member speak of those measures , because we are going to work together in the house to strengthen gun control . i hope that the conservative party will be part of that discussion in a positive way , in order to keep canadians safe . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , i can simply say to the prime minister that the conservative party has always been committed to battling criminals , not law-abiding citizens . speaking of criminals , we know that , even before the pandemic , the prime minister had asked the parole board of canada to release prisoners more easily and more quickly . now we are learning that , because of the pandemic , some releases are happening very quickly . the minister of public safety told us that the people were approaching the end of their sentences or were older , but we are learning in the media that some dangerous criminals are being released . can the prime minister give us an explanation ? right hon . justin trudeau : the protection , the safety and the health of all canadians are important for the government . this is why we have taken additional measures in our correctional services to ensure that guards and inmates are protected . we have indeed opened the doors to some more speedy releases , but only in very specific cases that present little or no danger for canadians . we have managed to find the right balance . we must protect canadians and we must also ensure that they are safe . those two things go hand-in-hand . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about restoring canadian businesses during the pandemic . </s> ms. marilyn gladu : very good , mr . chair . my riding is on the border of canada and the u.s. we see a number of inconsistencies in what is considered essential travel with regard to the u.s. and actually in the interpretation of different cbsa agents . while we have americans coming over to buy cheaper prescription medications and to fish , individuals in my riding who are trying to get auditors over so that they can be approved for export businesses are being declined . we have people who have purchased masts from canadian producers for their boats , and who want to come and pick them up , who are not being allowed to do that . people trying to sell plasma into the u.s. are being denied . when will they clarify the rules to the cbsa agents so that essential travel and trade and commerce , including individual commerce , is understood ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : mr . chair , we have implemented very rigorous rules that have been well documented and understood by cbsa to stop all non-essential travel . those measures have been very successful . we 've seen a 99 % reduction in international travel coming into canada . at the same time , we recognize the importance of maintaining essential supply routes so that goods and services could reach canada and we could put groceries on our shelves . we also recognize the important work that essential workers do on both sides of the border . we have provided cbsa with clarification . their interpretation of those rules has been broadly consistent . i 've heard from a number of our colleagues in caucus with concerns about individual cases . when we receive those inquiries , we follow up immediately . i want to assure the member that we 'll continue to do that . the work we are doing to stop non-essential travel has been important for the health and safety of canadians , and we will continue with that work . ms. marilyn gladu : mr . chair , my next question has to do with sole proprietor businesses . we see that many of them are not eligible for any of the benefit packages that have been rolled outei , cerb , the wage subsidy , etc . what is the government going to do to address sole proprietors who are currently falling through the cracks ? hon . bill morneau ( minister of finance ) : mr . chair , first , let me say that we absolutely recognize there are businesses across the country of all sizes that are finding this to be extremely difficult . the intent of the measures we put forward is obviously not only to give individuals a bridge but to give businesses a bridge . we are looking at ways that we can ensure that the canada emergency business account has the broadest possible application . more than 500,000 businesses have already been approved for these loans , representing over $ 20 billion . we are looking at ways we can consider that eligibility process , recognizing that we need to make sure that the program continues to have its desired impact , and we will have more to say on that . the chair : the next question will go to mr. arnold . mr. mel arnold ( north okanaganshuswap , cpc ) : mr . chair , this is my first appearance , so i hope you can hear me okay . the chair : we can hear you fine . please proceed . mr. mel arnold : thank you , mr . chair . it 's good to see everyone 's faces . on april 3 , the fisheries minister said opening dates would be determined by harvesters . since then the minister has overruled the will of harvesters in prince edward island and in the gulf who voted to start their seasons on time , but she has allowed harvesters from her own riding to proceed with their seasons as scheduled , giving them access to markets weeks before their competitors . this double standard is severely unfair and atlantic harvesters are furious , as demonstrated during the protests on the canso causeway yesterday . when will the minister stop abusing her position and start respecting fish harvesters by opening up lobster fishing areas 23 , 24 and 26 ? hon . bernadette jordan ( minister of fisheries , oceans and the canadian coast guard ) : mr . chair , when making decisions with regard to when seasons open , a number of factors are taken into account . they are complex decisions that take into account what is necessary for processors to be ready for the season , what is necessary for harvesters to be ready for the season , as well socio-economic impacts on the area . we 're looking at all of those measures when we make these decisions . we do not make them lightly . they are difficult decisions to make . in the decisions we 've made around the gulf , one of the main things we heard from all of those areas is that it was very important for them to start on the same date . that is why the decision was made to start on the 15th of may . we 're looking forward to seeing the harvesters out on the water . we 're looking forward to the product that they bring in . we 'll continue do everything we can to support the industry . mr. mel arnold : thank you , minister . i believe the time the chair : excuse me . no , the hon . minister had another 15 seconds coming to her . i 'd like to remind hon . members not to interrupt a person while they are speaking . i 'll do my best to try to keep it about level . maybe i 'll start muting if it 's necessary , but interrupting is not going to solve anything . mr. arnold , i 'll let you continue . you have three minutes and nine seconds left . mr. mel arnold : thank you , mr . chair . west coast fishing tourism is a key economic driver in british columbia , especially in coastal communities , and yet the public fishery gets no respect from the government . last year , the public fishery was weakened by restrictions based on ideology and not science . a year later , the fisheries minister refuses even to discuss viable , science-based solutions to conserve b.c . 's public fisheries . does the minister and her government have a will and a plan to support canada 's west coast fisheries and the communities they sustain ? the chair : the hon . minister in 30 seconds , please . hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , the fishery is important in every coastal community . i recognize its value for our economy , as well as what it means to our coastal communities . that 's why we continue to work with those communities and with the fisheries to make sure that we 're doing everything we possibly can to support them . during these extremely difficult times , we 're working on measures with the fishery in b.c. , as well as on the atlantic coast and eastern quebec , to make sure that we 're delivering for them and that all of the issues they 're having are being addressed . the chair : mr. arnold . mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , canada 's seniors , especially those on basic incomes , are being hard hit by the covid-19 crisis as they face new rising costs and scarcity of services . seniors require adequate caregiver supports , physical safety and freedom to access their savings to reinforce their financial security . why has the government failed to recognize the increasing challenges that seniors are facing ? will the government support canada 's senior citizens ? the chair : the hon . minister in 30 seconds or less , please . hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , i want to assure my hon . colleague that the government has been focused on seniors during this challenging time . we have provided a gst credit supplement of $ 400 for single seniors and $ 600 for couples , for low- and modest-income seniors . we have also ensured that the canada emergency response benefit is there for seniors who have lost income due to covid-19 . we 've made them eligible . the chair : we 'll go back to mr. arnold . mr. arnold , you have a minutehopefully a 30-second question and a 30-second answer . mr. mel arnold : thank you , mr . chair . on april 23 , my colleagues and i called on the government to create a program that would match students seeking employment with employers in canada 's essential food supply chains . what has the government done to match students and other canadians seeking employment with employers in the agriculture and agri-food sectors , including those in the fish and seafood sector ? hon . carla qualtrough ( minister of employment , workforce development and disability inclusion ) : mr . chair , we 're doing all we can to make sure , using our existing employment programs , that we create opportunities for students to work and get work experience this summer . we know that this is going to be really tough , especially in areas like agriculture , so we have dedicated streams for agriculture sector employers to access students with help from the government , and a number of different initiatives including canada summer jobs , which i 'm really excited to see the results of in the coming days . ms. rachael harder : thank you . now i understand the prime minister has his food prepared for him at 24 sussex drive and then it 's delivered to him at the cottage where he lives . contrary to his privileged understanding , food actually originates with farmers . now , they 're in a crisis right now , which means that regular canadians are actually at risk of not having food available for them at the grocery stores where they purchase theirs . the canadian federation of agriculture requested $ 2.6 billion to help them out . today , the government announced one-tenth of this amount . why does n't the prime minister care about the women and the men who work incredibly hard to keep canada fed ? hon . chrystia freeland ( deputy prime minister and minister of intergovernmental affairs ) : mr . chair , let me assure the hon . member that our government cares very , very much about the women and men who work so hard to feed our country . let me just say i am grateful to all the farmers , like my dad , who are out in their fields right now getting ready for seeding . we , as canadians , are lucky to be citizens of an agricultural superpower , and our government believes in supporting our farmers and ranchers . ms. rachael harder : i 'm confused as to why the prime minister did n't take my question , and at a bare minimum as to why the agriculture minister does n't feel it 's important enough for her to be a part of this discussion today . when we have farmers who produce for canadians on a daily basis and they 're asking some serious and some very important questions , and we do n't even have a minister who 's willing to come to the table and engage in this conversation , that 's shameful . several meat-packing plants have been forced to shut down because of covid-19 and , as a result , farmers are forced to hold stock longer than expected . cattle producers in my region are spending more than $ 60,000 a day to keep their livestock fed while they wait for processing plants to reopen . the amount that was announced today by the federal government is a drop in the bucket . it 's a crumb . when will the government take this seriously and at least implement a set-aside program for those who are beef producers in canada ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , let me just say that i feel there is nothing shameful at all in having me , the deputy prime minister , answer questions about agriculture . i am actually very proud to speak up for canada 's amazing farmers , for our country 's amazing ranchers , for our amazing pork producers and our poultry producers . i feel so close to our farmers . i love them and our government supports them . today , we announced $ 252 million of support for our producers . they need it . they deserve it . we 're here for them . mr. churence rogers ( bonavistaburintrinity , lib . ) : mr . chair , i 'm sharing my time slot with the member for surreynewton . in the wake of covid-19 , so many canadians have been affected in so many ways . financial loss and other burdens are having a huge impact on families across our country . i 'm proud of how the government of canada has been beside canadians through every step of this pandemic and has supported canadians when they needed it most . in bonavistaburintrinity and across our country , our commercial fishery has seen many challenges and impacts . last week , my colleague , the minister of fisheries and oceans , announced an investment that will ensure resilience of the food system by allowing canada 's fish and seafood processing sector to safely and efficiently process , store , package and distribute healthy , high-quality products on to the plates of canadians . the fish harvesters in my riding are fearful of what will happen within this industry and their immediate futures . they are facing a reduction in available markets and market prices . they are asking what our government is putting in place to assist in these extremely challenging times . when can we expect to hear an answer to our harvesters ' requests for assistance ? hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , i want to thank my colleague from bonavistaburintrinity for keeping us well aware of what 's happening in his riding with harvesters and with processors . we know how important the fish and seafood sector is to our rural communities , our coastal communities . it 's the backbone and the lifeblood of our communities and that 's why we want to be there to support them . we 've already taken steps by making sure that the cerb is now able to be accessed by people who are seasonal workers . as well , we are making sure that people who are running out of fishers ei are also able to qualify for it . we also have made an investment of $ 62.5 million to support our processors to make sure they are able to be ready for the challenges that they are going to face because of covid-19 . we know there is more to do . we know that the harvesters need support . we are working with our partners across industry to make sure we 're hearing what their major concerns are . we know they are going to have some very challenging times this season . we will have more to say about that and what we will be able to do in the coming days . the chair : the next questioner is mr. dhaliwal . mr. sukh dhaliwal ( surreynewton , lib . ) : mr . chair , in my riding of surreynewton , i 'm in close contact with businesses that represent all the chair : we have a point of order . mr. kurek . mr. damien kurek ( battle rivercrowfoot , cpc ) : sorry , but there seems to be an issue with the audio . i 'm unable to hear the honourable member . the chair : it is very faint . mr. dhaliwal , can you check your audio to make sure everything 's working well ? mr. sukh dhaliwal : it was the chair : there we go . it 's fine now . i think what happened was the boom had fallen down and it was n't being picked up . there you go . very good . mr. sukh dhaliwal : mr . chair , in my riding of surreynewton , i 'm in close contact with businesses that represent all vantage points in the supply chainfrom manufacturers to retailers , transport companies to warehousing . with provinces and territories moving at different speeds and implementing different protocols for reopening the economy , there is a lot of confusion in my local business community on the timing and logistics of how this will happen . with so many different parts of the supply chain operating in different jurisdictions , and with each business serving unique roles on this spectrum , how can the federal government serve to best coordinate with the provinces and territories so that the supply chain can be implemented smoothly as we embark on our economic recovery ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i 'd like to thank my colleague for his question and for his hard work . one of the most important things the federal government can do when it comes to the reopening of the canadian economy is to work in close collaboration with the premiers of the provinces and territories . that 's why i was so pleased that last week the prime minister , together with all the first ministers of the country , was able to issue a statement around the principles that will be guiding our entire country as we move towards a restart . this is so important because , as my colleague has pointed out , all of our business , our economic activity , happens across the country . it happens across provincial and territorial boundaries . i would really also like to take this opportunity to thank the first ministers across the country . they belong to different parties , but everyone has really been able to put partisanship aside . we have been able to work together in fighting coronavirus , and we are going to work together in the future to keep on fighting coronavirus and to reopen canada . thank you . the chair : the next question goes to ms. mcpherson . ms. heather mcpherson ( edmonton strathcona , ndp ) : thank you , mr . chair , for the opportunity to represent my constituents virtually during this challenging period of physical distancing . i 'd like to start by asking about supports for workers . in alberta , meat-packing plants are directly responsible for nearly a quarter of all covid-19 cases . the government and management ignored the pleas of workers and did not put effective safety protocols in place to deal with covid-19 . now , two workers are dead , at least six more are in intensive care and covid-19 is spreading like wildfire through these communities . there are over 1,400 cases . yesterday , employees were forced back to work even though their concerns had not been addressed . on march 27 , regarding the cerb , the minister of finance said that if workers do n't feel comfortable in their work , if they decide to stay home , they can apply for the benefit , yet the website says differently . will the minister guarantee that every canadian receiving cerb , ei or the cesb will not lose their benefits if they refuse to return to work or to accept work that is unsafe due to covid-19 ? hon . chrystia freeland : let me thank the member , first of all , for her really very important question . i think all of us share the concern for canada 's essential workers who are keeping us safe , putting food on our tables and often working in difficult conditions . when it comes to the cargill plant , this is an issue that our government has been very closely engaged in . my colleague , the minister of agriculture , has spoken with her provincial counterpart and the head of the plant . the decisions about suspending and reopening are taken by local and provincial health authorities . to the question my colleague asked about workers , it is absolutely the case that no canadian should feel they need to work in an environment that is unsafe , and it is also very much the case that any canadian who is feeling unwell should stay at home . this is the way that collectively we take care of ourselves and we take care the chair : we will go on to ms. mcpherson for the next question . ms. heather mcpherson : i just want to be clear , because i 'm not a hundred per cent sure that i got an answer in that response , so i 'll try one more time . knowing that workers have a fundamental right to refuse unsafe work , can the minister confirm one hundred per cent that if workers refuse unsafe work , they will be able to access the cerb , or was the minister of finance incorrect when he spoke on march 27 ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . chrystia freeland : i 'm sorry , but i was struggling with my mute button . i apologize . let me just be very clear . no canadian worker at any time should feel obliged to go to work in unsafe conditions . ms. heather mcpherson : but then could they access the cerb ? hon . chrystia freeland : in a time of coronavirus that is even more the case , and the government of course should not penalize workers for doing the right thing and declining to go to work in unsafe conditions . the chair : i want to remind the honourable members to place their questions through the chair to avoid back and forth , just to try to keep some order in the meeting . ms. mcpherson , please continue . ms. heather mcpherson : i 'm sorry , chair . i have another question on the protection for workers . at the meat-packing plant , workers are calling for the plant to be shut down . in fact , we know that 85 % of workers are afraid for their safety . if the provincial government wo n't shut down the plant , will the federal government shut down unsafe plants through the canadian food inspection agency ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , on the canadian food inspection agency , let me be very clear that my colleague , the minister of agriculture , has been in touch with provincial authorities . she has been in touch with the plant . the duties of the food inspection agency , of course , are to ensure that the food produced at the plant is safe . that is what inspectors are trained to do and what they are focused on . we are working closely with provincial authorities and with health authorities to ensure that the chair : we will go back to ms. mcpherson . ms. heather mcpherson : mr . chair , this will be one of my final questions on the meat-packing plant in alberta . can the finance minister please let us know if cargill , a company that is owned by billionaires , with business in luxembourg , a known tax haven , has received any federal funding this year for covid-related support ? hon . diane lebouthillier : this is a tough time for canadians , and our government is doing everything it can to support them . more than 7million canadians have applied for the canada emergency response benefit , which the canada revenue agency and service canada administer . i want to say how proud i am of the work the agency is doing ; staff worked tirelessly to get the program up and running in record time . ministerqualtrough is responsible for developing the eligibility criteria and processing the claims . the chair : we are moving on to the next question . we 'll continue now with mr. bragdon . mr. richard bragdon ( tobiquemactaquac , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . my question today is for the prime minister . potato farmers in new brunswick and across canada are sitting on massive stores of potatoes that were destined for the restaurant industry , but due to the pandemic , they now have no customers . it 's estimated that there is $ 300 million worth of potatoes still sitting in storage . what is the prime minister 's plan for the helping farmers offload these potatoes so that they are ready for the 2020 season ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i think all of us as canadians are proud of the great potato farmers across the country . we are aware that the coronavirus , by keeping us away from restaurants where we eat french fries , has had a profound effect on the market for potatoes . the program announced today by the prime minister and my colleague , the minister of agriculture , will be very helpful for potato farmers , including with the surplus food program that starts with a $ 50 million fund , and that the chair : we 'll go back to mr. bragdon now . mr. richard bragdon : mr . chair , thank you . with an estimated $ 300 million worth of potatoes in storage , the announced funding from the government today simply does n't go far enough . in 2018 the new brunswick potato industry lost over $ 20 million . it is estimated this year that the financial loss will exceed $ 40 million . for many producers still recovering from the hit they took in 2018 , another major loss is totally unacceptable . how does the prime minister plan to mitigate these shortfalls and allow farmers to continue to grow the food we so desperately need ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the honourable member spoke about farmers generally . the program today is $ 252 million , which comes on top of the broad range of other programs that farmers , of course , have access to . on potato farmers , in particular , i agree with the honourable member that this is a specific area of concern . i think all canadians would like to see those potatoes not be wasted but be used , and that 's why the $ 50 million for surplus food purchase is going to be so helpful . mr. richard bragdon : mr . chair , farmers across all agricultural sectors are hurting during this pandemic . the $ 16-billion beef industry is expected to take a massive hit due to the closures and reduced production of the meat-packing plants . does the government truly believe that the announced $ 125 million that is shared between beef , poultry and pork producers will be enough to support these multi-billion dollar industries so they can put food on the tables of canadians ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i absolutely agree with the honourable member that our beef , pork and poultry producers are absolutely essential for our country . i am very pleased as a canadian that we have security that comes from being a country that produces not only enough food for ourselves , but also enough food to feed the world . that is why the $ 125 million specifically to support our beef , pork and poultry producers is going to be so helpful . mr. richard bragdon : mr . chair , the government 's announcement of $ 252 million for the agriculture sector falls well short of the canadian federation of agriculture 's request for immediate government relief for farmers . the president of the canadian federation of agriculture , mary robinson , put it today something like this : that if the farmhouse is on fire , the government has offered the equivalent of a bucket of water . this will not go nearly far enough to help those in a desperate situation . does the government have a plan to offer more than just crumbs to keep the vital agriculture sector operating and providing the food we so desperately need ? when will the government finally make those who literally keep our land and grow our food a priority in this time of crisis ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i do n't know about the honourable member , but where i come from , $ 252 million is not just crumbs . i know that canadian farmers do n't feel that $ 252 million is nothing , either . i would like to take this opportunity to highlight two other aspects of the essential support for farmers that we announced today : the $ 77 million to support food processors , which will not only be important for the processors , but helpful for the farmers who produce products that go to them ; and the $ 250 million that we would like to add to the canadian dairy commission 's line of credit to raise it to half a billion dollars , which will be very helpful to our essential dairy farmers . the chair : now we 'll go to the next question . go ahead , mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall ( yorktonmelville , cpc ) : mr . chair , a couple in my riding has had to shut down their business , and they are on cerb . they were shocked when their 16-year-old son also qualified , and he is receiving $ 8,000 on the basis of part-time work throughout the school year . why is the government handing out a windfall to teenagers who are living at home while denying university students and ignoring seniors on fixed incomes ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , any individual who has lost work for covid reasons is eligible for the cerb , regardless of their personal circumstances . if you made $ 5,000 in the past year and are a resident of canada , you qualify for the cerb . this is not a matter of differentiating between the personal circumstances of individuals but of acknowledging that many workers in different situations have lost their work or have had their work significantly reduced because of covid . mrs. cathay wagantall : clearly , high school students would not have the same needs as university students and our seniors who are suffering at this time . the government 's own findings on banning handguns and assault firearms state , in all cases the data does not conclusively demonstrate that these handgun or assault weapon bans have led to reductions in gun violence . why is the prime minister so bent on penalizing law-abiding firearms owners when he should be focusing on funding our cbsa officers first , giving them the resources they need to seize smuggled firearms at our borders ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , i note with some interest that when we brought forward legislation in a budget in the last two years to increase the number of officers at the border , the member opposite voted against it . i 'm very pleased to hear that she now supports it . let us be very clear . the evidence is overwhelming that these weapons are designed to be used , and have been used , to kill innocent people . countries that adopt sensible gun policiesplaces like new zealand , australia , the united kingdomhave all recognized that there 's no place for these weapons in a civil society . we promised canadians that we would act on that concern . there have been far too many people killed with these weapons , and even most recently , to honour and respect the terrible tragedy in nova scotia , the time to act is now , and we 've acted . mrs. cathay wagantall : last week the minister of agriculture said , step by step we are giving our farmers ... the tools they need to continue their ... work . on april 30 , the canadian federation of agriculture called on the minister to create a $ 2.6-billion fund to maintain food security in canada . this morning , the prime minister announced $ 252 million , hit-and-miss , across the agriculture sector . with all due respect , this is a slap in the face to our farmers and the agri-food sector . instead of being here to speak to this announcement , the minister has chosen to do a press conference . this certainly reveals how seriously the minister takes this virtual sitting and parliamentary accountability . if the deputy minister is going to answer the question in her place , how does she see it is right to be providing $ 9 billion to students and only crumbs to our agriculture sector ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , first of all , let me say i do not , as has now been suggested by two members opposite , consider it in any way shameful that i should be answering questions about our support for the agricultural sector . our government strongly supports our farmers . i have to say i personally very strongly support our farmers and have a strong personal connection to them . the $ 252 million of support is real and meaningful , and it is directed exactly where it is needed . it is directed at food processors , beef and pork producers and the dairy sector . as to the question about students , let me just point out that farm kids are students too , and farm kids will be benefiting from the support for students . i know they , their parents and grandparents are very mrs. cathay wagantall : time is up . the chair : mr.lehoux , the next question goes to you . mr. richard lehoux ( beauce , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . meat packing plants like quebec-based olymel are extremely worried that they wo n't be able to stay open throughout the pandemic . in the summer , these plants rely on students to do overtime and fill in for full-time employees on vacation . however , the canada emergency student benefit makes it possible for these much-needed workers to stay home while still collecting the same amount of money . that 's why the government must adjust its current summer job program for students in the agriculture and agri-food sectors . when is the government going to make these critical changes ? hon . carla qualtrough : i can assure you that we are doing our best efforts to not disincentivize work . we know we need to support students with income support , but we also need to create jobs . we are looking at ways we can create additional jobs through canada summer jobs , through the the chair : there is a point of order . mrs. claude debellefeuille ( salaberrysurot , bq ) : mr.chair , what the minister is saying is not being interpreted . the chair : we 'll just check to see how the technology is going . is everything okay now ? mrs. claude debellefeuille : yes , it 's working . the chair : let 's try that again , minister . hon . carla qualtrough : last week , as part of the measures announced around supporting our students , we announced the creation of 76,000 additional jobs , including jobs in the agriculture and processing sectors . we know we need to work directly with employers to ensure they have the people they need . this is exactly what we 're doing through our youth employment and skills strategy , and that 's what we 'll continue to do . we wo n't apologize for supporting students with income support in these difficult times . mr. richard lehoux : i 'm not sure the minister understood my question about the canada emergency student benefit . i am very concerned about the agricultural sector , but the tourist and horticultural sectors are also on my mind . a number of business owners in my riding have reached out to me because the shortage of student workers is forcing them to shut down for the summer . this government has pulled the rug out from under them with the benefit it introduced for students . minister , what do you have to say to those business owners in the tourist and horticultural sectors whom you are not helping ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , with all due respect , i believe we are helping students . we 've heard very clearly from the students that they want to work and want to serve in their communities in this time of crisis . that 's why we 're creating additional employment opportunities and an income support mechanism that allows them to work . we 're going to continue to look at ways we can support them through additional opportunities this summer . we know they want to work and they want to serve . mr. richard lehoux : i hope that we 'll see some concrete results . pork and beef producers are feeling the impact of the country 's shutdown triggered by the pandemic . processing plants are suspending operations and buyers are tearing up their contracts . for the past five years , the government has been saying that the programs to help producers will be improved . now more than ever , producers need these programs . however , the programs have n't been reviewed yet . when will the government make these changes , including the changes to agristability , and when can producers access them ? hon . chrystia freeland : we announced over $ 77 million in assistance for food processors to help them protect their workers and deal with the costs associated with the coronavirus . to help livestock and pork producers , we established agrirecovery , a national initiative that will provide $ 125million to help producers adapt to market changes . we 're launching the chair : mr.lehoux has the floor . mr. richard lehoux : thank you , mr.chair . i understand some of what the minister is saying . the measures announced at noon today received a very cold reception from the entire agriculture and agri-food sector , since the sector had asked for about $ 2.6billion . i think that it 's important to support our agri-food industry and our farms , given the significant need for sovereignty . many canadians in the agriculture and agri-food sector have made this clear , as i was saying earlier . something must be done quickly , before our country becomes completely dependent on its neighbours . has the government considered making significant changes to the various programs currently in place ? hon . chrystia freeland : our country , canada , will never depend on its neighbours or any other country for food . canada is a major beef , pork and grain producer . canada is an agricultural superpower and we should all take pride in that . i want to mention another significant part of our announcement today , which is the $ 50million surplus food purchase program . this is very significant . i think that all canadians must support this initiative . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ( brossardsaint-lambert , lib . ) ) : we 'll now move on to the next question . mr.calkins , the member for reddeerlacombe , has the floor . mrs. claude debellefeuille : madamchair , i 'm not impatient . however , i do n't understand the government 's lack of willingness to eliminate this mechanism , which is legal but completely immoral . our questions remain unanswered . my next question is for the minister of finance . the fdration de la relve agricole du qubec and the upa approached the minister of finance two weeks ago and still have n't received a response regarding the following issue . we know that many farms do n't pay wages . as a result , these farms are being penalized because they are n't eligible for the $ 40,000 in loans available through the canada emergency business account . to qualify for these loans , the farms needed a payroll of $ 20,000 to $ 1.5million in 2019 . does the minister of finance plan to respond to the farmers who want to access the $ 40,000 in loans ? hon . bill morneau : thank you , ms.debellefeuille . we know that the canada emergency response benefit must be made available to the people who need it . mr. damien kurek : on a point of order hon . bill morneau : that 's why we 're considering our approach . of course mr. damien kurek : i have a point of order . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : ministermorneau , please wait a moment . a member is raising a point of order . mr. kurek , do you have a point of order ? you have to unmute yourself . mr. damien kurek : yes . it 's that the translation is at the same volume as the minister . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : you 'll have to put yourself on english . rather , the minister has to put himself on french . hon . bill morneau : sorry . i was on the english channel . we know that the people who need the canada emergency response benefit must have access to it . that 's why we 're considering the challenges each time . if i receive a letter , i 'll look at it . once we have a response , we 'll pass it directly on to the member . the chair : the next question will go to mr. richards . mr. blake richards ( banffairdrie , cpc ) : this question is for the tourism minister . the tourism ministry was one of the first and hardest-hit industries during this crisis , yet despite the prime minister 's announcement over three weeks ago now of a plan to bring forward a tourism-specific aid package to help the businesses who employ millions of unemployed canadians who work in tourism , there 's still been nothing from this government . when will the government finally act to provide help to this nearly crippled industry ? hon . mlanie joly ( minister of economic development and official languages ) : mr . chair , obviously we know that the tourism sector has been deeply impacted . i had the chance to talk to many of the leaders in the sector , and clearly there 's a lot of anxiety . we also had the chance to work with all the g20 ministers of tourism all together , and we know we have to act the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. richards . mr. blake richards : i did n't really get much of an answer there . i hear a lot about talking and not much on action . tourism-based communities like the ones in banff and canmore , which i represent , are tourism-based economies and have unemployment rates of 85 % or higher . they also do n't qualify for a lot of the programs because they 're seasonal businesses and make most or all of their revenues for the year from may to october , so they 're at risk of losing their entire season . i have a couple of very specific questions . will the government consider making changes to the programs to make sure that seasonal businesses can get help ? what does the government plan to do to help the tourism industry recover after the pandemic ? hon . mlanie joly : thank you . obviously , the tourism sector has access to many measures , including the ceba account , the $ 40,000 account . they also have access to the wage subsidy . they have access to rent relief . they will be having access also to funding through the regional development agencies , and we 'll be coming up with the details soon . of course , in my colleague 's riding of banff , which is a fantastic place and a tourism gem , they will have access to the support through wd , western economic diversification . if there are particular cases you would like to raise with me , i would be more than happy to talk to you to see how , on the ground , we can help the tourism operators . mr. blake richards : mr . chair , clearly the tourism minister has n't been listening . she says she 's talking to the industry . she 's not hearing their concerns . what she just said does not address many of the concerns they have about being seasonal industries . it does n't address anything about their concerns about the hard economic recovery they 'll have after the pandemic . let 's try another minister and see if we can get some answers . another industry that 's very hard hit in my province and my riding is the oil and gas industry . it 's another industry the prime minister has promised to help , but there has n't been anything . clearly there 's a pattern here . the only so-called assistance there 's been to help hurting albertans in the oil patch has been measures to speed up the death of the industry that they work in . will the liberal government ever show any concern for albertans ? will they bring forward a plan to preserve canadian jobs ? will they put forward a plan to ensure the use of canadian oil before oil coming in from places like saudi arabia ? hon . seamus o'regan ( minister of natural resources ) : in fact , mr . chair , the federal government has taken several steps in recent weeks that will meaningfully support workers and communities that depend on this industry . we have the canada emergency wage subsidy , which covers 75 % of an employee 's wages for the employer . we have more liquidity for oil and gas companies through new loans of $ 15 million to $ 60 million from the business development bank of canada . we continue to step forward in our response to the impacts of covid-19 on my province here in newfoundland and labrador and on alberta and saskatchewan . these three provinces are being hit by two crises at the same time , a crisis of demand for oil and gas on the world markets and of course a crisis of public health with covid-19 . mr. blake richards : mr . chair , a lot of these things we 're hearing about are n't going to actually help the industry to recover . what we need to see is the government give the industry and the private sector the opportunity to succeed . maybe what they could do is consider expediting the approval of billions of dollars of private sector projects that would put thousands and thousands of canadians back to work . will the government consider looking at ways that we can expedite projects ? will they look at ways that we can encourage the use of canadian oil before the use of oil coming in from places like saudi arabia ? </s>
<s> what did heather mcpherson think about restoring canadian businesses during the pandemic ? </s> the chair : i want to remind the honourable members to place their questions through the chair to avoid back and forth , just to try to keep some order in the meeting . ms. mcpherson , please continue . ms. heather mcpherson : i 'm sorry , chair . i have another question on the protection for workers . at the meat-packing plant , workers are calling for the plant to be shut down . in fact , we know that 85 % of workers are afraid for their safety . if the provincial government wo n't shut down the plant , will the federal government shut down unsafe plants through the canadian food inspection agency ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , on the canadian food inspection agency , let me be very clear that my colleague , the minister of agriculture , has been in touch with provincial authorities . she has been in touch with the plant . the duties of the food inspection agency , of course , are to ensure that the food produced at the plant is safe . that is what inspectors are trained to do and what they are focused on . we are working closely with provincial authorities and with health authorities to ensure that </s>
<s> what did chrystia freeland think about restoring canadian businesses during the pandemic ? </s> ms. heather mcpherson ( edmonton strathcona , ndp ) : thank you , mr . chair , for the opportunity to represent my constituents virtually during this challenging period of physical distancing . i 'd like to start by asking about supports for workers . in alberta , meat-packing plants are directly responsible for nearly a quarter of all covid-19 cases . the government and management ignored the pleas of workers and did not put effective safety protocols in place to deal with covid-19 . now , two workers are dead , at least six more are in intensive care and covid-19 is spreading like wildfire through these communities . there are over 1,400 cases . yesterday , employees were forced back to work even though their concerns had not been addressed . on march 27 , regarding the cerb , the minister of finance said that if workers do n't feel comfortable in their work , if they decide to stay home , they can apply for the benefit , yet the website says differently . will the minister guarantee that every canadian receiving cerb , ei or the cesb will not lose their benefits if they refuse to return to work or to accept work that is unsafe due to covid-19 ? hon . chrystia freeland : let me thank the member , first of all , for her really very important question . i think all of us share the concern for canada 's essential workers who are keeping us safe , putting food on our tables and often working in difficult conditions . when it comes to the cargill plant , this is an issue that our government has been very closely engaged in . my colleague , the minister of agriculture , has spoken with her provincial counterpart and the head of the plant . the decisions about suspending and reopening are taken by local and provincial health authorities . to the question my colleague asked about workers , it is absolutely the case that no canadian should feel they need to work in an environment that is unsafe , and it is also very much the case that any canadian who is feeling unwell should stay at home . this is the way that collectively we take care of ourselves and we take care the chair : we will go on to ms. mcpherson for the next question . ms. heather mcpherson : i just want to be clear , because i 'm not a hundred per cent sure that i got an answer in that response , so i 'll try one more time . knowing that workers have a fundamental right to refuse unsafe work , can the minister confirm one hundred per cent that if workers refuse unsafe work , they will be able to access the cerb , or was the minister of finance incorrect when he spoke on march 27 ? the chair : the honourable minister . hon . chrystia freeland : i 'm sorry , but i was struggling with my mute button . i apologize . let me just be very clear . no canadian worker at any time should feel obliged to go to work in unsafe conditions . ms. heather mcpherson : but then could they access the cerb ? hon . chrystia freeland : in a time of coronavirus that is even more the case , and the government of course should not penalize workers for doing the right thing and declining to go to work in unsafe conditions . the chair : i want to remind the honourable members to place their questions through the chair to avoid back and forth , just to try to keep some order in the meeting . ms. mcpherson , please continue . ms. heather mcpherson : i 'm sorry , chair . i have another question on the protection for workers . at the meat-packing plant , workers are calling for the plant to be shut down . in fact , we know that 85 % of workers are afraid for their safety . if the provincial government wo n't shut down the plant , will the federal government shut down unsafe plants through the canadian food inspection agency ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : good to see you all again . let 's see if that comes up . this is our functional design meeting . um . just a sec while my powerpoint comes up . et voila . okay . mm um we put the fashion in electronics . let 's start . okay , our agenda today um just check the time , it 's twelve thirteen . um . i 'm gon na do an opening , talk about um did you all get the minutes ? i e-mailed them to you . i 'm also putting 'em them in the shared folder . so um then i we 'll talk about our general objectives industrial designer : right . project manager : and have your three presentations . um i 'll talk about the new project requirements i 've just received , and then we have to make a decision on our remote control functions . finally we 'll just close . we 're starting this meeting at approximately twelve thirteen and we have forty minutes . so first of all the functional design objectives . uh we need to keep in mind the user requirement specification , what needs and desires are to be fulfilled , the functions design , what effects the apparatus should have , and the working design , how the apparatus actually works to fulfil its function . okay , three presentations , um you can go in any order you choose um . marketing : mm shall we go in the order that you just did it ? project manager : sure , please do . marketing : i dunno . how do i hook my screen up ? industrial designer : i think , you might have to disconnect rose . project manager : yes i do . yeah . user interface : well there 's a wee a wee plug just just that one there marketing : where does it go ? mm-hmm . hmm , i 'm not supposed to move this , user interface : marketing : but user interface : ah that 's it , yep . and then you have to press function f_ eight project manager : function , f_ eight , yeah . user interface : i think it is on your laptop . project manager : the blue one , f_n_ . marketing : where 's function ? no signal . project manager : is it plugged in all the way and you screwed it in and industrial designer : yeah . marketing : ah , wait , 's screw in . industrial designer : i i think you just have to push it in really hard . marketing : push the screw . user interface : that 's it . industrial designer : oh , got it . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : mm alright project manager : it 's taking it a little bit marketing : i 've never attached to anything . industrial designer : mm , neither have i . project manager : 'kay there you go . marketing : alright , so , industrial designer : alright . marketing : i do n't know if you guys are able to get access to um the report that was online or if i 'm the only one who is . but , i do n't even know how to play this . no . project manager : press the little presentation . it 's the um it looks like a y_ kind of over there above draw . there , that one , there you go . marketing : alright . so we 're just gon na talk a little bit about the functional requirements that people specified when they were asked . um i guess real reaction did some market research . they had a hundred subjects and their usability lab and they watched them watch tv and recorded the frequency that they used particular buttons and the relevance that those buttons had . what they found was they analysed people 's desires and needs . focusing on their desires , um people specifically said that they thought remotes were ugly , seventy five per cent of the a hundred subjects noted that and that they more importantly though , eighty per cent said that they would be willing to pay more for a fancier looking remote . i do n't know anything beyond what fancy means , but that 's particularly of use to us , i think . um also they did some questions on voice recognition and found that the desire for voice recognition was inversely related to age , so younger people were more inclined to want something with voice recognition , whereas the older people in the like sixty and above segment or so did not really think that they would pay more money for voice recognitions . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : um people also had certain frustrations , that i think that we could try to take into consideration with our design . that being people k um frustrated with losing their remotes . i think , over fifty percent of the people mentioned that that was their biggest frustration . people are also frustrated with the difficulty it is to learn how to use a remote and i think that ties back to what you were saying before just that there 's too many buttons , it just needs to be easy to use . it also mentioned something called r_s_i_ and i was hoping someone might be able to inform me as to what r_s_i_ is , user interface : repetitive strain injury . marketing : because i do n't know . user interface : repetitive strain injury . marketing : what ? ah . there we go . user interface : so if you marketing : wow . people do not like that . so i guess sort of the carpal tunnel type thing , people do not like that , um the repetitive use , i guess , caused a strain . um looking at the needs people specified , the problem right now is that people 's remotes are not matching their operating behaviour . people are only using ten per cent of the buttons that they have offered to them on their remote . and what people do most often is changing the channel and changing the volume . people also zap like to change the channel , about um sixty five per cent during an hour of use . so we really just need to focus in on those volumes and channel changers rather than things like the audio settings , the screen settings and the channel settings , because they 're used much more infrequently and probably just complicate what 's going on . so i think that some things that we might wan na think about , the idea of an lcd screen was brought up although they did n't have any details on what people 's preferences on that were , so i dunno know if that 's coming to me later , or something like that . but something for us to consider also just the phenomenon that less is more when it comes to the buttons on the remote or what we wan na make easiest to use , make sure that , you know , something like an audio setting is n't given as much importance and visibility on the remote as something like channel changing that 's used a lot more often . and basically in order for us to win over to the consumer we just need to focus on what it looks like , that it has a fancy appeal and that it 's not ugly and that it feels like the way they 're gon na use it , so it does n't give them any hand injuries or things like that . project manager : thank you very much . that was that was great . industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : um 's move on to the next presentation um on effects . was that you ? great . marketing : yeah , have i unscrewed it ? project manager : push . user interface , right . interface . marketing : here we go . user interface : cheers . marketing : mm-hmm . and i think that 's in the shared , if i did it right , if anyone wants to look at it . project manager : mm 'kay , thank you . industrial designer : okay , great . marketing : project manager : okay . user interface : here we go . right so i 'm gon na talk about the technical technical functions design of the remote control um . we need to start by considering what a remote control actually is . it 's a device that allows us to produce certain effects on our television , so i it 's basically a communication device . we we tell the remote control what we want to do , it sends a message to the television saying change the channel , change the volume , uh yeah , adjust these settings , adjust the brightness . um how do we actually go about designing a new television remote control ? first thing to do is to come up with the design specifications . we need to know what our final product is gon na be like , so we need a a clear idea of exactly what this product does , uh how it works , and what the end-user is gon na want from this product . um . oh , a way i 'd suggest that we could go about this is by designing uh several different prototypes of user interfaces for this product , um and then uh trying to get some feedback uh about marketing : user interface : h how well these particular prototypes work , uh sorta find out what people think of 'em . um using a remote control is is quite a subjective experience . um , and different different people sort of prefer different things . um we should remember that remote controls are a a fairly standard piece of equipment . when a users using a remote control , he or she expects the buttons to be in certain places . so in some sense we 're gon na we 're gon na have to aim for a device which is fairly conventional in design uh so that we 're not completely shocking people . but i think within that there is also room for us to introduce novel ideas uh and to make something that 's that 's perhaps a little bit different , something that stands out . um also in in designing the user interface we need to consider practicalities . uh the first of these is is technological ye uh what can we do with the current state of technology as it is . the second is is economic , uh we need to find a balance between features and price . so as you mentioned things like voice recognition would would add to the price uh but it would also im improve the design of the product . so i had a look on the on the web uh to see if i could find a few examples of existing television remote controls . in analysing these we can consider what what things what 's good about them , uh what things do they get right , what 's bad about them , what 's wrong with 'em , um how we can improve on the designs that that that i found and what can we do to make our product stand out from from the large majority of remote controls . here 's two examples uh probably at the extreme ends of the spectrum . project manager : user interface : um on the left here we 've got uh an engineering-based design for a remote control , industrial designer : user interface : so it 's one that 's got lots of buttons , it 's it 's fully featured , everything you might possibly want to do is there , you know , it 's got forward , backwards , up , down , channel numbers , volume , uh freeze frame . yeah , it 's it 's fully featured and it might take a while to get to learn to use it , but once you 've learned it you can you can do whatever you want with your tv . the one on the right is a lot more basic . it 's just got the essential functions of the tv changing the channel , play , stop , volume . it would be a lot quicker to learn to use it , but again th it 's it 's swings and roundabouts . there are disadvantages , you ca n't use it say to to freeze the television picture . uh there 's a lot of features that are missing from that remote control . so we 've got to to find our find a way of striking a balance between the two . um as i said before , remote controls are subjective , different people want want different things . um personally wa what i want from a remote control is a device that 's simple , it it 's easy to use , uh it 's got big buttons for doing the things i do most often , changing the volume , changing the channel . it it does everything that i need it to uh , as i said before , i 'm quite lazy , i do n't wan na walk across the room just to adjust my television . i also want something that that looks cool , um and that that feels good , that 's ergonomically designed . project manager : mm 'kay . thank you very much . that was very useful . it 's funny to see the drastic difference between those two remotes . um . and neither of them were very pretty , you know ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : i think that could be our selling point . marketing : a fashion fashion remote . industrial designer : right . user interface : i think there 's there 's certainly a market for technology that looks cool . and i think that 's that 's why companies like apple 've 've 've made a lot of progress . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : right , i really ca n't see what i 'm doing , so does anyone have a project manager : you there it is . industrial designer : ah-ha , look at that , showing up already . project manager : lovely . marketing : so wait , did it let you go on the internet or was that just what it let you see ? user interface : uh that was just on the d on the company web site , yeah . marketing : okay . 'cause i was like googling industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then i 'm like wait it wo n't let me google . user interface : industrial designer : alright um no , how do i play again ? project manager : um the it 's right above draw . there are three thingy if it 's way at the bottom . under three icons and it 's the one that looks like a desk . yeah , that one . there are y_s . industrial designer : okay . so this is our working design presentation . um i had a bit of some issues with this , because i was n't able to find everything i needed , but i guess that 's we 're still in early stages . um so , yeah , this is this . though th the thing about working design is the what we 're trying to do as a working design is figure out how the aparata apparatus can fulfil its function . um one of the examples that kept coming up for me is that a coffee grinder . it works because it converts electrical energy to grinding the beans and then you put the bean through a filter and that filters out , and then you get coffee at the end that 's nice and hot because of the combination of electrical energy and then the other things that are brought in to make it work . do n't know if i 'm explaining that very well , but how do i get to the next s ah . so h the method as um working designers figure out what you need to make it fulfil this practical function , what what needs to be done and how do we convert all the elements to make that done . marketing : industrial designer : so wha the easiest thing to do is to break down all the points at which you need something to happen . so you make a schematic of the way that the the energy is converted tsh towards this practical function . and then i think the easiest thing to do is gon na be work on each task separately . so um project manager : you just press industrial designer : uh . uh . project manager : yeah , just click . that 'll be fine . industrial designer : so the findings that i got uh very just very briefly is that you have a choice of the way that the information is projected to the receiver and in my opinion infra-red is the best way to do that 'cause you do n't need a sight line . so that 's one thing we 're gon na work on . um the user interface is critical here , because a lot of the things that happen in a remote control happen through the chip that controls that converts the electrical energy into data , which then goes through the infra-red , so the the chip that uh i think ian is designing , is gon na be crucial . and really it all comes down to the to the user , because they 're the one that 's controlling most of the working design . so the components that we find here are the energy source , you know the battery or whatever that 's gon na m make it work , then the chip , which converts the data , the user that 's controlling the chip , and the infra-red bulb that 's gon na let us move the data to the receiver . so you have four main components and they are designed sort of like this . you have your energy source right there which then um brings uh energy or information to the chip , which is also controlled by the users . you have energy going to the user who 's controlling the chip ooh 's not what i wanted to do uh uh . project manager : um yeah use that thing you can go back , previous . industrial designer : previous . sorry about that , guys . project manager : pardon . oh , well . industrial designer : no , no , no , no , no . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay , let 's just get back to my schematic here . project manager : ye double click on it . with the right with the left hand one . industrial designer : w yeah , yeah . i think it 's frozen . here . do n't show me that tip again . project manager : there we are . industrial designer : there we are . sorry about this , guys . marketing : industrial designer : i 'm kind of pathetic with things like this . um alright . so you have your energy source , your user interface who 's controlling the chip , the chip also uses the energy , and the chip through the use of the user interface is gon na control the switch which will work your infra-red bulb , which will then bring the data to the receiver . so hopefully that makes sense for everyone in my kind of garbled way . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : this is the the parts of the working design that need to be figured out . and personal preferences , besides the fact that i ca n't spell , we need a long-lasting energy source , people do n't wan na be changing it a lot . we need a chip that works well with the user interface , that is n't too complicated . we need a straightforward interface , like ian was saying , simple , not overwhelming it with information and we need a reliable and clear infra-red signal , so that you 're not waving your remote around project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and having to get frustrated and go do it by hands . so that 's pretty much it for the working design . project manager : excellent . so , um . industrial designer : rose , do you think you can give me a hand with this ? project manager : yes , absolutely . ah i can never tell which way to turn these things . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : lefty loosey , righty tighty , right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : user interface : what 's up ? industrial designer : project manager : lefty loosey , righty tighty . user interface : lefty loosey . uh . industrial designer : user interface : never heard that before , project manager : oh yes . user interface : that 's good . marketing : user interface : i 'll think of that every time now . project manager : industrial designer : it 's gon na stick in your head . user interface : marketing : yeah , that 's a good one it 'll stick with you . project manager : mm 'kay . um i have nothing on my screen . just a sec . here we are . industrial designer : mm . ooh , project manager : okay , yeah , it 's fine . industrial designer : no signal . project manager : okay , requirements . we have a couple new requirements that i was just e-mailed right before the meeting and that we have to keep in in um in mind as we 're creating this . industrial designer : okay . project manager : we did n't bring it up yet , or at all in the meetings so far , but we 're not gon na work with teletext because um well it that 's been taken over by the internet , so we 're not gon na worry about um we 're not gon na worry about that . marketing : what 's teletext ? industrial designer : uh , it 's a british thing . marketing : oh . oh , user interface : you do n't have it in the states ? marketing : so project manager : it industrial designer : no . project manager : no . w d could would you care to explain it ? user interface : oh , i did n't realise . um yeah , it 's like a i suppose it 's kind of similar to a very very basic web browser . um you have like you have uh numbers on your remote control , uh y and you type in the page number you want , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so like you type a hundred on your remote control and this this kind of index appears on the television screen with just some some text and some very blocky looking graphics on it . and you just type numbers to go to different pages and it gives you information , mostly rather boring stuff like what 's on tv next and share prices and that kind of thing . industrial designer : s lottery numbers and sport scores . user interface : yep , news headlines . industrial designer : but if you ever see the tv saying like go to page one sixty on ceefax now , that 's what they 're talking about . user interface : it 's earl it 's pretty old technology . it 's like nineteen eighties . project manager : okay . marketing : that explains a lot . industrial designer : i have no idea why we do n't have it , but user interface : marketing : that 's good . project manager : interesting . okay um , well , we 're not gon na the management has decided we 're not gon na work with that . um marketing : project manager : okay um and we 're also gon na w like your question earlier um whether this is going to be t for television , video , or etcetera . just for television . that 's what we 're focused on . user interface : right . project manager : um otherwise becomes to complex , we wan na get this out um very quickly . we only have a a short amount of time . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : um and finally there 's more marketing , i think , um , our corporate image has to be recognisable . so while we 're gon na make it look pretty we need to use our colour and our slogan i in the new design . user interface : so what 's our corporate image like ? it 's it 's kind of yellow colour with uh we put fashion in electronics . project manager : looks like , yeah , kind of a yellow and black and we have that the emphasis on the r_s in um user interface : it 's like double r_ . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : but it 's , yeah , we put the um fashion in electronics . so we got ta keep that in that in mind . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : okay , so we want something that looks good project manager : yep . yep . industrial designer : and is yellow . project manager : yeah , or ha maybe some buttons could be yellow . like , we can we can play around with it a little bit . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um . okay , we need to talk about our functions and our target group . we need to decide who our target group is . you um in your analysis of different market um of the marketing , you identified that different groups wanted different things marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : or had certain preferences , for example that um that older people did n't really care for um voice recognition , but younger people did . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um and so who are we aiming this at ? industrial designer : well if we 're gon na say that function um fashion we put the fashion in in electronics then you automatically , i think , a sort of younger group that that 's who 's gon na be attracted to this . marketing : yes , i do think , who 's gon na have the money to buy that also , that one ? project manager : mm-hmm . it 's gon na be twenty five euro remember , so um it has to be avai marketable to um whomever it is . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : is it is it something that 's gon na be sold separately from the television or is it something that comes w with a television ? 'cause that would affect the way that we market it . project manager : well at least right now what we 're doing is um deciding on just the remote itself , so it will probably be sold separately , twenty five euro by itself . user interface : right . right , okay . marketing : the only break-down that i was given in terms of age was the voice activation and basically there 's a big jump , after thirty five people do n't really care if it has voice , so it 's like basically fifteen to thirty five that think that that 's a good idea . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : i dunno i 'm gon na be given any other numbers broken down in terms of age later , but if that 's sort of the only quality that we have that is divided into age then we would wan na stick between the fifteen and thirty five range . industrial designer : yeah , that 's probably uh a population w quite a little bit of disposable income for use on technology anyway , so that might be a fairly good target group for us . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : now , those are that 's all specific for speech recognition . are we gon na use that as one of our functions ? user interface : i i would say no , because it 's gon na add too much to the price . especially if we are marketing it as a separate product , people are gon na be paying project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : uh , well , uh we 've got a price limit of was it twelve twelve and a half euros for to produce it ? industrial designer : to produce it , yeah . project manager : to produce it , yes . user interface : and i wonder if we can get voice recognition into that twelve and a half euros without having to make too many other compromises . marketing : but what else are we gon na put , i mean not that i 'm really gung-ho about it , i do n't know what else you can put in a remote to make it technologically advanced though . so like other than just making it look good , how is it user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean it can look really great and still have the same up-n-down buttons industrial designer : but right . marketing : and why 's anyone gon na buy a new remote ? industrial designer : well but why are we why are we aiming for a technological advancement ? everything we 're talking about is ease of use and simple and that does n't necessarily mean more technology , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's a good thing to keep in mind . industrial designer : in fact it could use it could mean , not . if they might be overwhelmed with with remotes that have too many buttons and too much technology . marketing : if someone 's looking to buy a new remote , do n't they want like an upgrade ? i dunno . project manager : upgrade ? well , we can look for we can look at upgrade or we can look at um user-friendly . industrial designer : yeah , simplification . project manager : simplification , industrial designer : they could have a crap remote user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so industrial designer : that came with their tv that 's just impossible to use , or maybe it broke , or maybe they 're just missing it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh-huh , mm . and we also need to talk about if we 're only gon na have the very simple ones or also have the other ones just separate somehow or user interface : yeah . marketing : can you like i mean this may be too complicated , but , i wish i had something to explain it , like if it was just a simple , either this way or this way , that had like the main buttons and then you could like pull something out , kind of and like you got the rest the buttons , but the rest of them like went in . user interface : the remote marketing : do you know what i 'm saying ? project manager : kind of pull out of the side . user interface : there are remote controls like that , yeah . like some tvs they have a sort of uh a sliding screen on the remote control of it that hides all the complicated buttons . so if you wan na do something complicated like programme your television or re-tune it , then you you open up this little hatch or or slide the screen down marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and there 's all the all the special buttons . marketing : 'cause then 's like people who do n't wan na ever look at them , never even have to see them project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and if you like get the instruction manual that comes with it and you just do n't even read it then you 'll never even know that those things can pull out . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and you 're a happy person and everyone else does n't have to have like two remotes , one that has the easy ones and one that has project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , that 's a good idea . user interface : yeah . marketing : more complicated ones , user interface : i think that 's a good idea , yeah . marketing : but 's all still in one . project manager : um we have to be careful that that that does n't impede um the chip transmitting information , but um that 's gon na be mostly technological thing . um . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : good point . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay um , so what are we emphasising ? i what in this project ? user interface : si simplicity and fashion . project manager : simplicity and fashion . marketing : i think simplicity , fashion . industrial designer : yeah mm . project manager : okay , those are very good goals , i think , um that we have to keep in mind in with everything we do . simplicity and fashion and , yeah , or usability speci however you wan na say that , which includes um an emphasis on making the infra-red very functional , so that you do n't have to travel around a lot . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : what can you do to like make the infra-red more functional , like why would it not be ? i 'm just wondering . project manager : i think it 's a lot to do with battery , but that 's just my marketing : okay . industrial designer : the battery and that i think that the chip takes the data and presents it well , without sort of scattering . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so 's just the quality of the chip . industrial designer : yeah . i think so . marketing : okay . industrial designer : the quality uh quality of all the components really , i mean , we ca n't really do anything shoddy work , 'cause it 's user interface : yeah . industrial designer : gon na be visible down the line . project manager : so our target group , we 're saying , fifteen to thirty five ? marketing : well , i dunno how useful that number is if we 're not doing project manager : s voice recognition , which i kind of i kind of feel like voice recognition is not necessary in a remote control , marketing : yeah . yeah . i do n't . project manager : like it might be necessary for a tv but not for the remote c , you know . user interface : it 's , yeah , it 's pretty it 's pretty high-tech . industrial designer : mm-mm . project manager : seems a little bit mm-hmm . yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and it might be too expensive . marketing : and if the whole idea is you 're using a remote then why would you have voice , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : like you know what i mean and then it 's like you would n't need a remote you 'd just talk to your tv . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : ooh . user interface : it 's for , like , the ultimately lazy people , project manager : user interface : who ca n't even be bothered to pick up the remote . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm yeah . maybe i mean if i get m more numbers , i 'll e-mail you before the next meeting in terms of ages . but this does n't divide up anything and there was only a hundred subjects also , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : which is n't , i mean , really is n't that representative , especially if it 's a hundred subjects that th they then can subdivide into age groups that means there 's very few in each age group , so industrial designer : yeah , but i th i think regardless we 're we 're aiming for the under sixty five or something . project manager : under sixty five , okay , that 's a good start . um . i 'd say we 're uh can we narrow it down to maybe um teenagers and families ? 'cause that would go up to like fifty ? industrial designer : or like single professionals or something . project manager : okay , single marketing : twenty to like fifty five . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i dunno . project manager : it 's it 's hard to narrow it down . industrial designer : it 's really hard to figure out right now . user interface : i think the product appeals across a quite a broad range of ages . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean , we we said simplicity is is one of the features , so it 's going to appeal to people , maybe people who have problems with technology , you know , people who get scared by having lots of buttons , project manager : okay . user interface : and that might be older people , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but then we 've also got fashion , which is something that definitely appeals to younger people . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well maybe we do n't have to defi define the target group by the demographic of age , project manager : right . marketing : maybe we can define it by like the demographic of like h t how much money they have to spend or something like that , user interface : yeah . yeah aim for a an income group . industrial designer : that 's a good point . marketing : like , well project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : obviously it has to be someone who owns a television , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and like how recently have they bought their television like that sort of thing . project manager : so maybe it 's more useful to d d to define objectives like fashion and simplicity than to find specific target group as far as age is industrial designer : yeah , t probably . user interface : yeah . project manager : because , yeah , things so different will appeal to different people , but okay . um oh , there 're a couple functions do we want something so that do we want some kind of thing to find it if it 's lost ? like a button on a tv you can press marketing : yeah . project manager : and it 'll ring or something , i do n't know like or beep ? marketing : h i mean , like i said before , fifty per cent of of the fru f like frustration someone can have that was the biggest one and half the people said that happened and we all mentioned it before we knew about it . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : and if we 're talking about making something easy that sort of goes along with it so it would n't be like a random thing to sort of add in . it would be relevant to like the overall goal i think , industrial designer : yeah , that 'll probably be good . marketing : so project manager : okay , we have to we have about four minutes left to define our functions . so let 's do that quickly . um so we want something to keep it from getting lost . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and we want um we want large buttons for the essential things . large , accessible buttons for the essentials . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : we want a possibility to um to get um a possibility to get the extra functions . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : which are kind of hidden away in some way or well not hidden but they 're uh they 're not as prominent as the main features . project manager : mm-hmm . um , yeah , hidden way . and we also want it to be fashionable , which i 'm not sure if that 's a function so much as a um yeah marketing : on your coffee table , it 's not like an eye sore , that kind of thing . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . alright . project manager : okay , do it . any other essential functions that we need ? battery ? do we need a long-life battery ? industrial designer : battery battery use . yeah , but i think that goes in with simplicity and ease of use really . marketing : yeah . project manager : but we might as well . marketing : so you never have to change the battery . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : we should maybe investigate whether it needs a battery at all . i suspect the remote control does need a battery , project manager : yeah , i would imagine . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but i dunno if you can project manager : just 'cause it is an electronic device , the user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it i think it does . i do n't i do n't think of a way you can operate a chip and convert that much data without without one . user interface : yeah , without the energy , yeah . industrial designer : but you could maybe have it in a little charging station like a mobile phone , or like a little cradle for your ipod . user interface : yeah , that 's that 's possible . yeah . industrial designer : you could we could maybe do that instead . project manager : charging . industrial designer : so you do n't ha you got like a rechargeable battery . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno , that might contribute to less people losing it too if it it stays in one place . project manager : mm-hmm . we have to think about um space in living-rooms , too , like 'cause they 're i mean , would you put it on top of the tv ? i do n't know , just think okay , that 's that 's a good idea , we 'll keep it . think it 's industrial designer : yeah . that 's just off the top of my head . project manager : and maybe fun . okay . um 'kay we 're gon na conclude now , has everyone said their functions and 'kay . um after the meeting we 're gon na each complete a sks um a questionnaire and a summaries summary . i do n't know what summarisation . um and then we 'll have our lunch break . after that we have thirty minutes of individual work . um i 'll make sure to put up um the minutes and the project documentation and including these powerpoint slides . if everyone could do that as well , that 'd be great . um you each have individual actions , i_ um i_d_ industrial design you 've your components concept , user interface , the user interface concept , market trend wa watching . marketing : project manager : and as as per last time you 'll get specific incrat instructions from your personal coach e-mailed to you . and hopefully , i hope , next time you 'll be able to access more of the web site that they they seem to tell you that you could . it 's kinda frustrating , industrial designer : yeah , who knows . project manager : but um be sure to note any frustrations or any um issues that come up in your um in your um summary . mm 'kay ? industrial designer : sounds good . project manager : great seeing y'all . marketing : it 's good . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : did you um were you able to like put yours in the group folder ? industrial designer : yes , i just did that . marketing : okay . industrial designer : hopefully it is there for people . yeah ? project manager : looks like there are um looks like there 's a second one kind of of mine that 's that i did n't do , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's from like an earlier project , i think so um industrial designer : okay . marketing : where is that ? yours is project manager : under the shared folder , i do n't know it might not even be under yours as well . industrial designer : technical . so project manager : projects . industrial designer : in there we have technical functions presentation , working design presentation and the functional requirements . at least that 's what i have in . marketing : i only have three , i just have like our three . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's what i have as well , r rose project manager : okay . you do n't have mine ? marketing : no , but that 's 'cause i think yours is in the e-mail separate , like it 's not on the server . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but if i open it and then save it , probably will be there . oh wait , never mind you ca n't save it to the project manager : okay . well i 'll figure that out in the meantime . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> summarize presentations on working design , technical functions and functional requirements . </s> project manager : good to see you all again . let 's see if that comes up . this is our functional design meeting . um . just a sec while my powerpoint comes up . et voila . okay . mm um we put the fashion in electronics . let 's start . okay , our agenda today um just check the time , it 's twelve thirteen . um . i 'm gon na do an opening , talk about um did you all get the minutes ? i e-mailed them to you . i 'm also putting 'em them in the shared folder . so um then i we 'll talk about our general objectives industrial designer : right . project manager : and have your three presentations . um i 'll talk about the new project requirements i 've just received , and then we have to make a decision on our remote control functions . finally we 'll just close . we 're starting this meeting at approximately twelve thirteen and we have forty minutes . so first of all the functional design objectives . uh we need to keep in mind the user requirement specification , what needs and desires are to be fulfilled , the functions design , what effects the apparatus should have , and the working design , how the apparatus actually works to fulfil its function . okay , three presentations , um you can go in any order you choose um . marketing : mm shall we go in the order that you just did it ? project manager : sure , please do . marketing : i dunno . how do i hook my screen up ? industrial designer : i think , you might have to disconnect rose . project manager : yes i do . yeah . user interface : well there 's a wee a wee plug just just that one there marketing : where does it go ? mm-hmm . hmm , i 'm not supposed to move this , user interface : marketing : but user interface : ah that 's it , yep . and then you have to press function f_ eight project manager : function , f_ eight , yeah . user interface : i think it is on your laptop . project manager : the blue one , f_n_ . marketing : where 's function ? no signal . project manager : is it plugged in all the way and you screwed it in and industrial designer : yeah . marketing : ah , wait , 's screw in . industrial designer : i i think you just have to push it in really hard . marketing : push the screw . user interface : that 's it . industrial designer : oh , got it . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : mm alright project manager : it 's taking it a little bit marketing : i 've never attached to anything . industrial designer : mm , neither have i . project manager : 'kay there you go . marketing : alright , so , industrial designer : alright . marketing : i do n't know if you guys are able to get access to um the report that was online or if i 'm the only one who is . but , i do n't even know how to play this . no . project manager : press the little presentation . it 's the um it looks like a y_ kind of over there above draw . there , that one , there you go . marketing : alright . so we 're just gon na talk a little bit about the functional requirements that people specified when they were asked . um i guess real reaction did some market research . they had a hundred subjects and their usability lab and they watched them watch tv and recorded the frequency that they used particular buttons and the relevance that those buttons had . what they found was they analysed people 's desires and needs . focusing on their desires , um people specifically said that they thought remotes were ugly , seventy five per cent of the a hundred subjects noted that and that they more importantly though , eighty per cent said that they would be willing to pay more for a fancier looking remote . i do n't know anything beyond what fancy means , but that 's particularly of use to us , i think . um also they did some questions on voice recognition and found that the desire for voice recognition was inversely related to age , so younger people were more inclined to want something with voice recognition , whereas the older people in the like sixty and above segment or so did not really think that they would pay more money for voice recognitions . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : um people also had certain frustrations , that i think that we could try to take into consideration with our design . that being people k um frustrated with losing their remotes . i think , over fifty percent of the people mentioned that that was their biggest frustration . people are also frustrated with the difficulty it is to learn how to use a remote and i think that ties back to what you were saying before just that there 's too many buttons , it just needs to be easy to use . it also mentioned something called r_s_i_ and i was hoping someone might be able to inform me as to what r_s_i_ is , user interface : repetitive strain injury . marketing : because i do n't know . user interface : repetitive strain injury . marketing : what ? ah . there we go . user interface : so if you marketing : wow . people do not like that . so i guess sort of the carpal tunnel type thing , people do not like that , um the repetitive use , i guess , caused a strain . um looking at the needs people specified , the problem right now is that people 's remotes are not matching their operating behaviour . people are only using ten per cent of the buttons that they have offered to them on their remote . and what people do most often is changing the channel and changing the volume . people also zap like to change the channel , about um sixty five per cent during an hour of use . so we really just need to focus in on those volumes and channel changers rather than things like the audio settings , the screen settings and the channel settings , because they 're used much more infrequently and probably just complicate what 's going on . so i think that some things that we might wan na think about , the idea of an lcd screen was brought up although they did n't have any details on what people 's preferences on that were , so i dunno know if that 's coming to me later , or something like that . but something for us to consider also just the phenomenon that less is more when it comes to the buttons on the remote or what we wan na make easiest to use , make sure that , you know , something like an audio setting is n't given as much importance and visibility on the remote as something like channel changing that 's used a lot more often . and basically in order for us to win over to the consumer we just need to focus on what it looks like , that it has a fancy appeal and that it 's not ugly and that it feels like the way they 're gon na use it , so it does n't give them any hand injuries or things like that . project manager : thank you very much . that was that was great . industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : um 's move on to the next presentation um on effects . was that you ? great . marketing : yeah , have i unscrewed it ? project manager : push . user interface , right . interface . marketing : here we go . user interface : cheers . marketing : mm-hmm . and i think that 's in the shared , if i did it right , if anyone wants to look at it . project manager : mm 'kay , thank you . industrial designer : okay , great . marketing : project manager : okay . user interface : here we go . right so i 'm gon na talk about the technical technical functions design of the remote control um . we need to start by considering what a remote control actually is . it 's a device that allows us to produce certain effects on our television , so i it 's basically a communication device . we we tell the remote control what we want to do , it sends a message to the television saying change the channel , change the volume , uh yeah , adjust these settings , adjust the brightness . um how do we actually go about designing a new television remote control ? first thing to do is to come up with the design specifications . we need to know what our final product is gon na be like , so we need a a clear idea of exactly what this product does , uh how it works , and what the end-user is gon na want from this product . um . oh , a way i 'd suggest that we could go about this is by designing uh several different prototypes of user interfaces for this product , um and then uh trying to get some feedback uh about marketing : user interface : h how well these particular prototypes work , uh sorta find out what people think of 'em . um using a remote control is is quite a subjective experience . um , and different different people sort of prefer different things . um we should remember that remote controls are a a fairly standard piece of equipment . when a users using a remote control , he or she expects the buttons to be in certain places . so in some sense we 're gon na we 're gon na have to aim for a device which is fairly conventional in design uh so that we 're not completely shocking people . but i think within that there is also room for us to introduce novel ideas uh and to make something that 's that 's perhaps a little bit different , something that stands out . um also in in designing the user interface we need to consider practicalities . uh the first of these is is technological ye uh what can we do with the current state of technology as it is . the second is is economic , uh we need to find a balance between features and price . so as you mentioned things like voice recognition would would add to the price uh but it would also im improve the design of the product . so i had a look on the on the web uh to see if i could find a few examples of existing television remote controls . in analysing these we can consider what what things what 's good about them , uh what things do they get right , what 's bad about them , what 's wrong with 'em , um how we can improve on the designs that that that i found and what can we do to make our product stand out from from the large majority of remote controls . here 's two examples uh probably at the extreme ends of the spectrum . project manager : user interface : um on the left here we 've got uh an engineering-based design for a remote control , industrial designer : user interface : so it 's one that 's got lots of buttons , it 's it 's fully featured , everything you might possibly want to do is there , you know , it 's got forward , backwards , up , down , channel numbers , volume , uh freeze frame . yeah , it 's it 's fully featured and it might take a while to get to learn to use it , but once you 've learned it you can you can do whatever you want with your tv . the one on the right is a lot more basic . it 's just got the essential functions of the tv changing the channel , play , stop , volume . it would be a lot quicker to learn to use it , but again th it 's it 's swings and roundabouts . there are disadvantages , you ca n't use it say to to freeze the television picture . uh there 's a lot of features that are missing from that remote control . so we 've got to to find our find a way of striking a balance between the two . um as i said before , remote controls are subjective , different people want want different things . um personally wa what i want from a remote control is a device that 's simple , it it 's easy to use , uh it 's got big buttons for doing the things i do most often , changing the volume , changing the channel . it it does everything that i need it to uh , as i said before , i 'm quite lazy , i do n't wan na walk across the room just to adjust my television . i also want something that that looks cool , um and that that feels good , that 's ergonomically designed . project manager : mm 'kay . thank you very much . that was very useful . it 's funny to see the drastic difference between those two remotes . um . and neither of them were very pretty , you know ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : i think that could be our selling point . marketing : a fashion fashion remote . industrial designer : right . user interface : i think there 's there 's certainly a market for technology that looks cool . and i think that 's that 's why companies like apple 've 've 've made a lot of progress . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : right , i really ca n't see what i 'm doing , so does anyone have a project manager : you there it is . industrial designer : ah-ha , look at that , showing up already . project manager : lovely . marketing : so wait , did it let you go on the internet or was that just what it let you see ? user interface : uh that was just on the d on the company web site , yeah . marketing : okay . 'cause i was like googling industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then i 'm like wait it wo n't let me google . user interface : industrial designer : alright um no , how do i play again ? project manager : um the it 's right above draw . there are three thingy if it 's way at the bottom . under three icons and it 's the one that looks like a desk . yeah , that one . there are y_s . industrial designer : okay . so this is our working design presentation . um i had a bit of some issues with this , because i was n't able to find everything i needed , but i guess that 's we 're still in early stages . um so , yeah , this is this . though th the thing about working design is the what we 're trying to do as a working design is figure out how the aparata apparatus can fulfil its function . um one of the examples that kept coming up for me is that a coffee grinder . it works because it converts electrical energy to grinding the beans and then you put the bean through a filter and that filters out , and then you get coffee at the end that 's nice and hot because of the combination of electrical energy and then the other things that are brought in to make it work . do n't know if i 'm explaining that very well , but how do i get to the next s ah . so h the method as um working designers figure out what you need to make it fulfil this practical function , what what needs to be done and how do we convert all the elements to make that done . marketing : industrial designer : so wha the easiest thing to do is to break down all the points at which you need something to happen . so you make a schematic of the way that the the energy is converted tsh towards this practical function . and then i think the easiest thing to do is gon na be work on each task separately . so um project manager : you just press industrial designer : uh . uh . project manager : yeah , just click . that 'll be fine . industrial designer : so the findings that i got uh very just very briefly is that you have a choice of the way that the information is projected to the receiver and in my opinion infra-red is the best way to do that 'cause you do n't need a sight line . so that 's one thing we 're gon na work on . um the user interface is critical here , because a lot of the things that happen in a remote control happen through the chip that controls that converts the electrical energy into data , which then goes through the infra-red , so the the chip that uh i think ian is designing , is gon na be crucial . and really it all comes down to the to the user , because they 're the one that 's controlling most of the working design . so the components that we find here are the energy source , you know the battery or whatever that 's gon na m make it work , then the chip , which converts the data , the user that 's controlling the chip , and the infra-red bulb that 's gon na let us move the data to the receiver . so you have four main components and they are designed sort of like this . you have your energy source right there which then um brings uh energy or information to the chip , which is also controlled by the users . you have energy going to the user who 's controlling the chip ooh 's not what i wanted to do uh uh . project manager : um yeah use that thing you can go back , previous . industrial designer : previous . sorry about that , guys . project manager : pardon . oh , well . industrial designer : no , no , no , no , no . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay , let 's just get back to my schematic here . project manager : ye double click on it . with the right with the left hand one . industrial designer : w yeah , yeah . i think it 's frozen . here . do n't show me that tip again . project manager : there we are . industrial designer : there we are . sorry about this , guys . marketing : industrial designer : i 'm kind of pathetic with things like this . um alright . so you have your energy source , your user interface who 's controlling the chip , the chip also uses the energy , and the chip through the use of the user interface is gon na control the switch which will work your infra-red bulb , which will then bring the data to the receiver . so hopefully that makes sense for everyone in my kind of garbled way . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : this is the the parts of the working design that need to be figured out . and personal preferences , besides the fact that i ca n't spell , we need a long-lasting energy source , people do n't wan na be changing it a lot . we need a chip that works well with the user interface , that is n't too complicated . we need a straightforward interface , like ian was saying , simple , not overwhelming it with information and we need a reliable and clear infra-red signal , so that you 're not waving your remote around project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and having to get frustrated and go do it by hands . so that 's pretty much it for the working design . project manager : excellent . so , um . industrial designer : rose , do you think you can give me a hand with this ? project manager : yes , absolutely . ah i can never tell which way to turn these things . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : lefty loosey , righty tighty , right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : user interface : what 's up ? industrial designer : project manager : lefty loosey , righty tighty . user interface : lefty loosey . uh . industrial designer : user interface : never heard that before , project manager : oh yes . user interface : that 's good . marketing : user interface : i 'll think of that every time now . project manager : industrial designer : it 's gon na stick in your head . user interface : marketing : yeah , that 's a good one it 'll stick with you . project manager : mm 'kay . um i have nothing on my screen . just a sec . here we are . industrial designer : mm . ooh , project manager : okay , yeah , it 's fine . industrial designer : no signal . project manager : okay , requirements . we have a couple new requirements that i was just e-mailed right before the meeting and that we have to keep in in um in mind as we 're creating this . industrial designer : okay . project manager : we did n't bring it up yet , or at all in the meetings so far , but we 're not gon na work with teletext because um well it that 's been taken over by the internet , so we 're not gon na worry about um we 're not gon na worry about that . marketing : what 's teletext ? industrial designer : uh , it 's a british thing . marketing : oh . oh , user interface : you do n't have it in the states ? marketing : so project manager : it industrial designer : no . project manager : no . w d could would you care to explain it ? user interface : oh , i did n't realise . um yeah , it 's like a i suppose it 's kind of similar to a very very basic web browser . um you have like you have uh numbers on your remote control , uh y and you type in the page number you want , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so like you type a hundred on your remote control and this this kind of index appears on the television screen with just some some text and some very blocky looking graphics on it . and you just type numbers to go to different pages and it gives you information , mostly rather boring stuff like what 's on tv next and share prices and that kind of thing . industrial designer : s lottery numbers and sport scores . user interface : yep , news headlines . industrial designer : but if you ever see the tv saying like go to page one sixty on ceefax now , that 's what they 're talking about . user interface : it 's earl it 's pretty old technology . it 's like nineteen eighties . project manager : okay . marketing : that explains a lot . industrial designer : i have no idea why we do n't have it , but user interface : marketing : that 's good . project manager : interesting . okay um , well , we 're not gon na the management has decided we 're not gon na work with that . um marketing : project manager : okay um and we 're also gon na w like your question earlier um whether this is going to be t for television , video , or etcetera . just for television . that 's what we 're focused on . user interface : right . project manager : um otherwise becomes to complex , we wan na get this out um very quickly . we only have a a short amount of time . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : um and finally there 's more marketing , i think , um , our corporate image has to be recognisable . so while we 're gon na make it look pretty we need to use our colour and our slogan i in the new design . user interface : so what 's our corporate image like ? it 's it 's kind of yellow colour with uh we put fashion in electronics . project manager : looks like , yeah , kind of a yellow and black and we have that the emphasis on the r_s in um user interface : it 's like double r_ . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : but it 's , yeah , we put the um fashion in electronics . so we got ta keep that in that in mind . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : okay , so we want something that looks good project manager : yep . yep . industrial designer : and is yellow . project manager : yeah , or ha maybe some buttons could be yellow . like , we can we can play around with it a little bit . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um . okay , we need to talk about our functions and our target group . we need to decide who our target group is . you um in your analysis of different market um of the marketing , you identified that different groups wanted different things marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : or had certain preferences , for example that um that older people did n't really care for um voice recognition , but younger people did . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um and so who are we aiming this at ? industrial designer : well if we 're gon na say that function um fashion we put the fashion in in electronics then you automatically , i think , a sort of younger group that that 's who 's gon na be attracted to this . marketing : yes , i do think , who 's gon na have the money to buy that also , that one ? project manager : mm-hmm . it 's gon na be twenty five euro remember , so um it has to be avai marketable to um whomever it is . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : is it is it something that 's gon na be sold separately from the television or is it something that comes w with a television ? 'cause that would affect the way that we market it . project manager : well at least right now what we 're doing is um deciding on just the remote itself , so it will probably be sold separately , twenty five euro by itself . user interface : right . right , okay . marketing : the only break-down that i was given in terms of age was the voice activation and basically there 's a big jump , after thirty five people do n't really care if it has voice , so it 's like basically fifteen to thirty five that think that that 's a good idea . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : i dunno i 'm gon na be given any other numbers broken down in terms of age later , but if that 's sort of the only quality that we have that is divided into age then we would wan na stick between the fifteen and thirty five range . industrial designer : yeah , that 's probably uh a population w quite a little bit of disposable income for use on technology anyway , so that might be a fairly good target group for us . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : now , those are that 's all specific for speech recognition . are we gon na use that as one of our functions ? user interface : i i would say no , because it 's gon na add too much to the price . especially if we are marketing it as a separate product , people are gon na be paying project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : uh , well , uh we 've got a price limit of was it twelve twelve and a half euros for to produce it ? industrial designer : to produce it , yeah . project manager : to produce it , yes . user interface : and i wonder if we can get voice recognition into that twelve and a half euros without having to make too many other compromises . marketing : but what else are we gon na put , i mean not that i 'm really gung-ho about it , i do n't know what else you can put in a remote to make it technologically advanced though . so like other than just making it look good , how is it user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean it can look really great and still have the same up-n-down buttons industrial designer : but right . marketing : and why 's anyone gon na buy a new remote ? industrial designer : well but why are we why are we aiming for a technological advancement ? everything we 're talking about is ease of use and simple and that does n't necessarily mean more technology , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's a good thing to keep in mind . industrial designer : in fact it could use it could mean , not . if they might be overwhelmed with with remotes that have too many buttons and too much technology . marketing : if someone 's looking to buy a new remote , do n't they want like an upgrade ? i dunno . project manager : upgrade ? well , we can look for we can look at upgrade or we can look at um user-friendly . industrial designer : yeah , simplification . project manager : simplification , industrial designer : they could have a crap remote user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so industrial designer : that came with their tv that 's just impossible to use , or maybe it broke , or maybe they 're just missing it . marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did marketing think of repetitive strain injury when discussing functional requirements ? </s> marketing : um people also had certain frustrations , that i think that we could try to take into consideration with our design . that being people k um frustrated with losing their remotes . i think , over fifty percent of the people mentioned that that was their biggest frustration . people are also frustrated with the difficulty it is to learn how to use a remote and i think that ties back to what you were saying before just that there 's too many buttons , it just needs to be easy to use . it also mentioned something called r_s_i_ and i was hoping someone might be able to inform me as to what r_s_i_ is , user interface : repetitive strain injury . marketing : because i do n't know . user interface : repetitive strain injury . marketing : what ? ah . there we go . user interface : so if you marketing : wow . people do not like that . so i guess sort of the carpal tunnel type thing , people do not like that , um the repetitive use , i guess , caused a strain . um looking at the needs people specified , the problem right now is that people 's remotes are not matching their operating behaviour . people are only using ten per cent of the buttons that they have offered to them on their remote . and what people do most often is changing the channel and changing the volume . people also zap like to change the channel , about um sixty five per cent during an hour of use . so we really just need to focus in on those volumes and channel changers rather than things like the audio settings , the screen settings and the channel settings , because they 're used much more infrequently and probably just complicate what 's going on . so i think that some things that we might wan na think about , the idea of an lcd screen was brought up although they did n't have any details on what people 's preferences on that were , so i dunno know if that 's coming to me later , or something like that . but something for us to consider also just the phenomenon that less is more when it comes to the buttons on the remote or what we wan na make easiest to use , make sure that , you know , something like an audio setting is n't given as much importance and visibility on the remote as something like channel changing that 's used a lot more often . and basically in order for us to win over to the consumer we just need to focus on what it looks like , that it has a fancy appeal and that it 's not ugly and that it feels like the way they 're gon na use it , so it does n't give them any hand injuries or things like that . project manager : thank you very much . that was that was great . </s>
<s> why did industrial designer think of it could be their selling point when discussing technical functions design ? </s> user interface : so it 's one that 's got lots of buttons , it 's it 's fully featured , everything you might possibly want to do is there , you know , it 's got forward , backwards , up , down , channel numbers , volume , uh freeze frame . yeah , it 's it 's fully featured and it might take a while to get to learn to use it , but once you 've learned it you can you can do whatever you want with your tv . the one on the right is a lot more basic . it 's just got the essential functions of the tv changing the channel , play , stop , volume . it would be a lot quicker to learn to use it , but again th it 's it 's swings and roundabouts . there are disadvantages , you ca n't use it say to to freeze the television picture . uh there 's a lot of features that are missing from that remote control . so we 've got to to find our find a way of striking a balance between the two . um as i said before , remote controls are subjective , different people want want different things . um personally wa what i want from a remote control is a device that 's simple , it it 's easy to use , uh it 's got big buttons for doing the things i do most often , changing the volume , changing the channel . it it does everything that i need it to uh , as i said before , i 'm quite lazy , i do n't wan na walk across the room just to adjust my television . i also want something that that looks cool , um and that that feels good , that 's ergonomically designed . project manager : mm 'kay . thank you very much . that was very useful . it 's funny to see the drastic difference between those two remotes . um . and neither of them were very pretty , you know ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : i think that could be our selling point . marketing : a fashion fashion remote . industrial designer : right . user interface : i think there 's there 's certainly a market for technology that looks cool . and i think that 's that 's why companies like apple 've 've 've made a lot of progress . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about the general specification . </s> user interface : yeah . marketing : can you like i mean this may be too complicated , but , i wish i had something to explain it , like if it was just a simple , either this way or this way , that had like the main buttons and then you could like pull something out , kind of and like you got the rest the buttons , but the rest of them like went in . user interface : the remote marketing : do you know what i 'm saying ? project manager : kind of pull out of the side . user interface : there are remote controls like that , yeah . like some tvs they have a sort of uh a sliding screen on the remote control of it that hides all the complicated buttons . so if you wan na do something complicated like programme your television or re-tune it , then you you open up this little hatch or or slide the screen down marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and there 's all the all the special buttons . marketing : 'cause then 's like people who do n't wan na ever look at them , never even have to see them project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and if you like get the instruction manual that comes with it and you just do n't even read it then you 'll never even know that those things can pull out . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and you 're a happy person and everyone else does n't have to have like two remotes , one that has the easy ones and one that has project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , that 's a good idea . user interface : yeah . marketing : more complicated ones , user interface : i think that 's a good idea , yeah . marketing : but 's all still in one . project manager : um we have to be careful that that that does n't impede um the chip transmitting information , but um that 's gon na be mostly technological thing . um . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : good point . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay um , so what are we emphasising ? i what in this project ? user interface : si simplicity and fashion . project manager : simplicity and fashion . marketing : i think simplicity , fashion . industrial designer : yeah mm . project manager : okay , those are very good goals , i think , um that we have to keep in mind in with everything we do . simplicity and fashion and , yeah , or usability speci however you wan na say that , which includes um an emphasis on making the infra-red very functional , so that you do n't have to travel around a lot . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : what can you do to like make the infra-red more functional , like why would it not be ? i 'm just wondering . project manager : i think it 's a lot to do with battery , but that 's just my marketing : okay . industrial designer : the battery and that i think that the chip takes the data and presents it well , without sort of scattering . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so 's just the quality of the chip . industrial designer : yeah . i think so . marketing : okay . industrial designer : the quality uh quality of all the components really , i mean , we ca n't really do anything shoddy work , 'cause it 's user interface : yeah . industrial designer : gon na be visible down the line . project manager : so our target group , we 're saying , fifteen to thirty five ? marketing : well , i dunno how useful that number is if we 're not doing project manager : s voice recognition , which i kind of i kind of feel like voice recognition is not necessary in a remote control , marketing : yeah . yeah . i do n't . project manager : like it might be necessary for a tv but not for the remote c , you know . user interface : it 's , yeah , it 's pretty it 's pretty high-tech . industrial designer : mm-mm . project manager : seems a little bit mm-hmm . yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and it might be too expensive . marketing : and if the whole idea is you 're using a remote then why would you have voice , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : like you know what i mean and then it 's like you would n't need a remote you 'd just talk to your tv . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : ooh . user interface : it 's for , like , the ultimately lazy people , project manager : user interface : who ca n't even be bothered to pick up the remote . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm yeah . maybe i mean if i get m more numbers , i 'll e-mail you before the next meeting in terms of ages . but this does n't divide up anything and there was only a hundred subjects also , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : which is n't , i mean , really is n't that representative , especially if it 's a hundred subjects that th they then can subdivide into age groups that means there 's very few in each age group , so industrial designer : yeah , but i th i think regardless we 're we 're aiming for the under sixty five or something . project manager : under sixty five , okay , that 's a good start . um . i 'd say we 're uh can we narrow it down to maybe um teenagers and families ? 'cause that would go up to like fifty ? industrial designer : or like single professionals or something . project manager : okay , single marketing : twenty to like fifty five . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i dunno . project manager : it 's it 's hard to narrow it down . industrial designer : it 's really hard to figure out right now . user interface : i think the product appeals across a quite a broad range of ages . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean , we we said simplicity is is one of the features , so it 's going to appeal to people , maybe people who have problems with technology , you know , people who get scared by having lots of buttons , project manager : okay . user interface : and that might be older people , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but then we 've also got fashion , which is something that definitely appeals to younger people . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well maybe we do n't have to defi define the target group by the demographic of age , project manager : right . marketing : maybe we can define it by like the demographic of like h t how much money they have to spend or something like that , user interface : yeah . yeah aim for a an income group . industrial designer : that 's a good point . marketing : like , well project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : obviously it has to be someone who owns a television , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and like how recently have they bought their television like that sort of thing . project manager : so maybe it 's more useful to d d to define objectives like fashion and simplicity than to find specific target group as far as age is industrial designer : yeah , t probably . user interface : yeah . project manager : because , yeah , things so different will appeal to different people , but okay . um oh , there 're a couple functions do we want something so that do we want some kind of thing to find it if it 's lost ? like a button on a tv you can press marketing : yeah . project manager : and it 'll ring or something , i do n't know like or beep ? marketing : h i mean , like i said before , fifty per cent of of the fru f like frustration someone can have that was the biggest one and half the people said that happened and we all mentioned it before we knew about it . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : and if we 're talking about making something easy that sort of goes along with it so it would n't be like a random thing to sort of add in . it would be relevant to like the overall goal i think , industrial designer : yeah , that 'll probably be good . marketing : so project manager : okay , we have to we have about four minutes left to define our functions . so let 's do that quickly . um so we want something to keep it from getting lost . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and we want um we want large buttons for the essential things . large , accessible buttons for the essentials . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : we want a possibility to um to get um a possibility to get the extra functions . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : which are kind of hidden away in some way or well not hidden but they 're uh they 're not as prominent as the main features . project manager : mm-hmm . um , yeah , hidden way . and we also want it to be fashionable , which i 'm not sure if that 's a function so much as a um yeah marketing : on your coffee table , it 's not like an eye sore , that kind of thing . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . alright . project manager : okay , do it . any other essential functions that we need ? battery ? do we need a long-life battery ? industrial designer : battery battery use . yeah , but i think that goes in with simplicity and ease of use really . marketing : yeah . project manager : but we might as well . marketing : so you never have to change the battery . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : we should maybe investigate whether it needs a battery at all . i suspect the remote control does need a battery , project manager : yeah , i would imagine . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but i dunno if you can project manager : just 'cause it is an electronic device , the user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it i think it does . i do n't i do n't think of a way you can operate a chip and convert that much data without without one . user interface : yeah , without the energy , yeah . industrial designer : but you could maybe have it in a little charging station like a mobile phone , or like a little cradle for your ipod . user interface : yeah , that 's that 's possible . yeah . industrial designer : you could we could maybe do that instead . project manager : charging . industrial designer : so you do n't ha you got like a rechargeable battery . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno , that might contribute to less people losing it too if it it stays in one place . project manager : mm-hmm . we have to think about um space in living-rooms , too , like 'cause they 're i mean , would you put it on top of the tv ? i do n't know , just think okay , that 's that 's a good idea , we 'll keep it . think it 's industrial designer : yeah . that 's just off the top of my head . project manager : and maybe fun . okay . um 'kay we 're gon na conclude now , has everyone said their functions and 'kay . um after the meeting we 're gon na each complete a sks um a questionnaire and a summaries summary . i do n't know what summarisation . um and then we 'll have our lunch break . after that we have thirty minutes of individual work . um i 'll make sure to put up um the minutes and the project documentation and including these powerpoint slides . if everyone could do that as well , that 'd be great . um you each have individual actions , i_ um i_d_ industrial design you 've your components concept , user interface , the user interface concept , market trend wa watching . marketing : project manager : and as as per last time you 'll get specific incrat instructions from your personal coach e-mailed to you . and hopefully , i hope , next time you 'll be able to access more of the web site that they they seem to tell you that you could . it 's kinda frustrating , industrial designer : yeah , who knows . project manager : but um be sure to note any frustrations or any um issues that come up in your um in your um summary . mm 'kay ? industrial designer : sounds good . project manager : great seeing y'all . marketing : it 's good . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : did you um were you able to like put yours in the group folder ? industrial designer : yes , i just did that . marketing : okay . industrial designer : hopefully it is there for people . yeah ? project manager : looks like there are um looks like there 's a second one kind of of mine that 's that i did n't do , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's from like an earlier project , i think so um industrial designer : okay . marketing : where is that ? yours is project manager : under the shared folder , i do n't know it might not even be under yours as well . industrial designer : technical . so project manager : projects . industrial designer : in there we have technical functions presentation , working design presentation and the functional requirements . at least that 's what i have in . marketing : i only have three , i just have like our three . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that 's what i have as well , r rose project manager : okay . you do n't have mine ? marketing : no , but that 's 'cause i think yours is in the e-mail separate , like it 's not on the server . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but if i open it and then save it , probably will be there . oh wait , never mind you ca n't save it to the project manager : okay . well i 'll figure that out in the meantime . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> what did the group think of the infra-red functionality when discussing general requirements ? </s> project manager : okay , those are very good goals , i think , um that we have to keep in mind in with everything we do . simplicity and fashion and , yeah , or usability speci however you wan na say that , which includes um an emphasis on making the infra-red very functional , so that you do n't have to travel around a lot . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : what can you do to like make the infra-red more functional , like why would it not be ? i 'm just wondering . project manager : i think it 's a lot to do with battery , but that 's just my marketing : okay . industrial designer : the battery and that i think that the chip takes the data and presents it well , without sort of scattering . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so 's just the quality of the chip . industrial designer : yeah . i think so . marketing : okay . industrial designer : the quality uh quality of all the components really , i mean , we ca n't really do anything shoddy work , 'cause it 's user interface : yeah . industrial designer : gon na be visible down the line . project manager : so our target group , we 're saying , fifteen to thirty five ? marketing : well , i dunno how useful that number is if we 're not doing project manager : s voice recognition , which i kind of i kind of feel like voice recognition is not necessary in a remote control , marketing : yeah . yeah . i do n't . project manager : like it might be necessary for a tv but not for the remote c , you know . user interface : it 's , yeah , it 's pretty it 's pretty high-tech . industrial designer : mm-mm . project manager : seems a little bit mm-hmm . yeah , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and it might be too expensive . marketing : and if the whole idea is you 're using a remote then why would you have voice , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : like you know what i mean and then it 's like you would n't need a remote you 'd just talk to your tv . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : ooh . user interface : it 's for , like , the ultimately lazy people , project manager : user interface : who ca n't even be bothered to pick up the remote . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm yeah . maybe i mean if i get m more numbers , i 'll e-mail you before the next meeting in terms of ages . but this does n't divide up anything and there was only a hundred subjects also , </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think of the battery when discussing general requirements ? </s> project manager : okay , do it . any other essential functions that we need ? battery ? do we need a long-life battery ? industrial designer : battery battery use . yeah , but i think that goes in with simplicity and ease of use really . marketing : yeah . project manager : but we might as well . marketing : so you never have to change the battery . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : we should maybe investigate whether it needs a battery at all . i suspect the remote control does need a battery , project manager : yeah , i would imagine . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but i dunno if you can project manager : just 'cause it is an electronic device , the user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it i think it does . i do n't i do n't think of a way you can operate a chip and convert that much data without without one . user interface : yeah , without the energy , yeah . industrial designer : but you could maybe have it in a little charging station like a mobile phone , or like a little cradle for your ipod . user interface : yeah , that 's that 's possible . yeah . industrial designer : you could we could maybe do that instead . project manager : charging . industrial designer : so you do n't ha you got like a rechargeable battery . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno , that might contribute to less people losing it too if it it stays in one place . project manager : mm-hmm . we have to think about um space in living-rooms , too , like 'cause they 're i mean , would you put it on top of the tv ? i do n't know , just think okay , that 's that 's a good idea , we 'll keep it . think it 's </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : yep . soon as i get this . okay . this is our last meeting . um i 'll go ahead and go through the minutes from the previous meeting . uh and then we 'll have a , the prototype presentation . um then we will um do an evaluation . uh or we 'll see what , what we need to have under the criteria for the evaluation . then we 'll go through the finance and see if we fall within the budget . um then we 'll do the evaluation , and then we can finish up after that with um any changes that we 'll need to make , or hopefully everything will fall right in line . um let 's see , minutes from the last meeting . um we looked at uh the the trends . we had uh the fashion trends that people want a fancy look-and-feel . it was twice as important as anything else . um they liked fruit and vegetables in the new styles . um and a spongy feel . so we were talking about trying to incorporate those into our prototype . um they wanted limited buttons and simplicity . um then we looked at the uh the method for coming up with our own remote . um looking at other other devices . um the ipod , we really liked the look of that . um we also had uh the kid 's remote for a simple idea . um a two part remote , which was what were were originally looking at . uh and then um there was talk of spee uh speech recognition um becoming more uh predominant and easier to use . but i think we 've still decided not to go with that . then we looked at the components um the materials for the case , the different energy sources , the different types of chips , um and made a decision on what we were going to use to make our remote . um and basically how , what were making for the prototype . so i 'm going to leave it at that and let you guys take over . user interface : the prototype discussion . project manager : the prototype yeah . do you need a this ? user interface : no . project manager : okay . industrial designer : can try to plug that in there user interface : there is our remo the banana . marketing : industrial designer : but user interface : um yeah basically we we st went with the colour yellow . um working on the principle of a fruit which was mentioned , it 's basically designed around a banana . project manager : user interface : um but it would be held in such a fashion , marketing : user interface : where it is , obviously it would n't be that floppy 'cause this would be hard plastic . these would be like the rubber , the rubber grips . so that 's so that would hopefully help with grip , or like the ergonomics of it . um but all the controlling would be done with this scroll wheel . you have to use your imagination a little bit . and this here represents the screen , where you , where you 'd go through . project manager : very nice . user interface : and the the simplest functions would be um almost identical to an ipod , where that one way ch through channels , that way th other way through channels . volume up and down . and then to access the more complicated functions you 'd you sorta go , you press that and go through the menus . it 's that that simple . that just represents the infrared uh beam . that 's a simple on and off switch . um i do n't know , we could use the voice . t that blue bits should be yellow , that that 'd be where the batteries would be i suppose . and um that 's about it . it 's as simple as you , we could make it really . industrial designer : right . user interface : is there anything you want to add ? industrial designer : that 's what we have there . that 's plastic . plastic covered with rubber . we might uh add some more underneath here . maybe give it , give it a form . i mean you 're supposed to hold it like that , but um just if you grab it , take it from somewhere , user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so yeah , user interface : does n't make much make much difference . industrial designer : you have some rub yeah . user interface : you could work left-handed or right-handed i suppose . industrial designer : exactly , use both . might as well think about user interface : t the actual thing might be smaller . industrial designer : th think about the button as well . like either put either one one on either side or user interface : yeah . project manager : what but what 's that button ? industrial designer : not do it at all . it 's a quick on-off button . user interface : just the on and off . project manager : uh , 'kay . industrial designer : that 's um marketing : industrial designer : yeah i think it 's pretty important . so you do n't have to fiddle with that . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : right ? um that 's not um project manager : industrial designer : i 'd say a bit smaller would probably be nice . you wan na play with that over there . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : there you go . user interface : it 's you know it 's flimsy 'cause it 's made out of heavy play-doh , marketing : project manager : would you like to uh industrial designer : right . user interface : but marketing : pretty impressive . project manager : well done . user interface : marketing : kind of a banana . user interface : and whether or not it would fall into the cost everything i suppose . with the scroll and the lcd . project manager : well luckily we are going to find out . or not luckily . um do you have a marketing presentation for us . industrial designer : marketing : i do . okay . you guys are gon na help me do an evaluation of the criteria . um . okay . so first i 'll just discuss some of the criteria that i found . just based on the past trend reports that i was looking at earlier . and then we 'll do a group evaluation of the prototype . and then we will calculate the average score to see how we did . um so the criteria we 're gon na be looking at are the complaints um that we heard from the users who were interviewed earlier . so we 're gon na be doing it based on a seven point scale . and one is going to mean true , that we did actually achieve that . with seven being false , we did not achieve that . . okay . so for the first one , we need to decide , did we solved the problem of the users who complained about an ugly remote ? industrial designer : . user interface : project manager : i think it 's definitely different than anything else out there . user interface : yeah . project manager : so if they think that what is out there is ugly , then yes i would say , i would say most definitely . marketing : user interface : i would . project manager : it 's bright . user interface : it 's bright . it 's project manager : it still has your traditional black . user interface : it 's curved . it 's not there 's no sharp industrial designer : user interface : angles to it . project manager : yep , not angular . industrial designer : i 'd say , when it comes to the ergonomics , the form and stuff , yes that 's definitely more beautiful than your average . marketing : industrial designer : however the colour , we do n't have a say in that . marketing : yeah i think the colours detract a little bit . user interface : some people might say it . yeah . industrial designer : that has been , that has been dictated pretty much by the company . so uh to answer that honestly i would rather say like uh , we have not solved the problem completely with the ugly remote because the colour is ugly , definitely . project manager : yep . marketing : that 's true . yeah . project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : 's nothing you can say about that . i mean i much prefer something like brushed chrome with that form . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but project manager : yeah something more modern to go a a modern colour to go with the modern form . industrial designer : right . right . it 's different . you do n't want your uh three feet huge lcd dis display in your living room that 's hanging from the wall to be controlled with something like that . marketing : um okay so , do you think , since we this was a a sign criteria , do you think maybe we should put it somewhere in the middle then ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : does that sound good ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : what do you think ? three ? four ? project manager : i would say marketing : five ? project manager : four . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : four is fair . okay . project manager : very non-committal , four . marketing : okay , the second one . did we make it simple for new users ? industrial designer : it 's very intuitive , i think yeah . user interface : yeah . i think that was the main aim , one of the main aims that we had . industrial designer : s give it a one . project manager : yeah . marketing : 'kay . okay . um , do the controls now match the operating behaviour of the users ? user interface : uh yeah . 'cause we 've we 've brought it down to basically four controls most common , which are channel and volume . marketing : i 'd say that project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . user interface : and then the other ones are just a matter of just going , just scrolling further . project manager : s scrolling through and selecting a few . industrial designer : right . so that 's a one . marketing : so one ? project manager : i think that 's a one . marketing : yeah ? okay . okay um the fourth one . how about the problem of a remote being easily lost ? one of the number one complaints . industrial designer : something that big and that yellow you just do n't lose anymore . project manager : user interface : yeah . marketing : whether you want to or not , you 're not gon na lose it . user interface : it 's bright yellow . industrial designer : user interface : bright yellow 's hard to lose . but um if we were to , if we were , that , the speech recognition . that , we could maybe just use that solely for the the finding thing . that was what we 'd we 'd mentioned . project manager : so if we incorporate speech recognition into it then it could user interface : just just to use , to find it when it was lost . but like i said , like i do n't think you 'd lose something so yellow so easily . industrial designer : oops . hmm . user interface : and it 's not gon na fall , like a rectangle would slip down behind things . that 's gon na be a difficult shape to industrial designer : well what project manager : and it is quite bright and user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : maybe in the middle again , three or four or something ? project manager : uh marketing : okay . user interface : i mean you know loo losing things is one of those things that people can lose , i mean a million ways . project manager : yeah . user interface : you can pick it up and walk away with it and then you 've lost it . marketing : that 's true . project manager : but if we do go with the , with the speech recognition , then it , then our scale goes up quite a bit i think . industrial designer : oh yeah . you probably user interface : yeah . project manager : probably two . you know . if we eliminate the fact that you know it 's impossible to guarantee that it 's not gon na be lost then user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'd say two . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : with the speech recognition , which of course may be changed depending on budget . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : y you could add an extra feature actually . which makes this thing raise hell when you remove it too far from the television . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we could add that but that 's nothing we have thought of so far . project manager : which , which may be cheaper than speech recognition if it were just a user interface : yeah true . but i mean d just those whistling , clapping key rings you have . they 're cheap . marketing : annoying alarm or something ? project manager : industrial designer : it 's it 's marketing : yeah . user interface : so it ca n't be that industrial designer : um the it 's based on this anti anti-theft technology for suitcases and stuff , user interface : expensive . project manager : some sort of proximity user interface : yeah . industrial designer : where you have one piece that 's attached to your luggage , another piece that starts beeping . that ca n't cost much . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so that can also easily be integrated because these things are small enough to to hide , so you have one piece , you have to glue somewhere behind your stick it behind your tv and the other user interface : stick it on the tv . project manager : pray that you do n't accidentally lose that piece . industrial designer : right . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : that 'd be tough then . well also your remote would uh alarm you if somebody stole you t your television , yeah . ran off with it without taking the beautiful remote control . project manager : user interface : yeah . marketing : so . are we adding one of these two features ? industrial designer : let 's add one of those features and say yes . marketing : gon na say okay . project manager : okay . marketing : so we 're back to a one ? or a two ? two , 'kay . okay . are we technologically innovative ? industrial designer : uh user interface : i 'd say so . industrial designer : user interface : uh do n't get many mo remote controls with industrial designer : it 's all just user interface : screens on . industrial designer : it 's all just stolen technology when it comes down to user interface : yeah it 's stolen technology . marketing : from ipod yeah . project manager : it 's user interface : but we have . project manager : but there 's not a lot of yellow , there 's not a lotta yellow . marketing : but for remotes yeah . project manager : course that was n't really industrial designer : right right . project manager : we were kinda forced to take that colour . marketing : two ? three ? user interface : 'cause it 's stolen . project manager : i do n't know that we are that innovative , to tell you the truth . user interface : no maybe not . industrial designer : yeah not really . marketing : but how many remotes do you see like this ? user interface : project manager : if we added the screaming factor then we go up . industrial designer : marketing : not so many . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : um i would say we 're probably at four . industrial designer : right . marketing : really ? okay . that 's gon na hurt us . user interface : marketing : okay . um spongy material ? industrial designer : yeah well you have that , kind of , sort of . project manager : we have some spongy , yeah . user interface : yeah as much as as needed , i think . marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : it 's not a one though . one would be the whole thing project manager : yeah . because it 's only got what , these parts are the grips and perhaps the back side the bottom the underneath on the back . industrial designer : to fold and stuff . yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so that 's a four at most . project manager : probably a four at most . possibly even a five . marketing : and lastly , did we put the fashion in electronics ? project manager : industrial designer : y yes . user interface : yeah . marketing : i 'd say we did . project manager : if your fashion is b is carmen miranda , you betcha . industrial designer : more user interface : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : well the recent fashion is rather displayed in the in the lcd and the way you operate it than the form and the colour , user interface : on the project manager : it 's true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but it definitely is user interface : be what we were told , and they 'd say yeah , definitely . industrial designer : . marketing : 'kay . alright . now we just got ta calculate . six eight twelve sixteen . seventeen divided by s user interface : . project manager : seven is marketing : eight . project manager : two point marketing : project manager : two point four ? user interface : is that some long division ? no . project manager : something . marketing : well i have n't done math in years . industrial designer : marketing : what two user interface : marketing : i dunno . user interface : just , i 'm sure there 's a . marketing : okay we 'll say two point four two . right ? how does that look ? industrial designer : i 'm impressed . i ca n't do that without a calculator . user interface : no i ca n't do long marketing : it 's been a while . user interface : very impressive . project manager : and what what is the acceptable criteria ? is there like a scale that we have to hit ? marketing : oh no . they just told me to industrial designer : marketing : pick my own criteria and have you guys evaluate it basically . project manager : alright then . marketing : so that 's that . project manager : okay . well , let 's see . marketing : project manager : now we get to do the budget numbers . you did n't know that you were gon na have a budget . but we do . okay . user interface : yeah . yeah so . you 'd been going a long time dividing that . it 's two point four two eight five se it just keeps going on . marketing : oh my god . user interface : two point four two basically . marketing : okay . yeah we 'll go with that . project manager : so i have here an industrial designer : fifty percent , you 're kidding . marketing : not too shabby . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : p project manager : we want a fifty percent profit on this . oh you ca n't really see that very well . user interface : charge about three hundred quid for it . project manager : twelve and a half euros is what supposed to cost us . okay , so industrial designer : it 's too much . project manager : well let 's see . industrial designer : um project manager : the f the wonder if i can make this industrial designer : uh project manager : what the oh it wo n't let me do that . okay . alright so at top , i do n't know if you guys can read that or not . i ca n't 'cause i do n't have my glasses on , industrial designer : project manager : but so we 've got the energy source . there 's uh four , five , six categories . industrial designer : battery . project manager : we have energy source , electronics , case . then we have case material supplements , interface type , and then button supplements . okay so uh first of all energy source , we picked battery . um and how many batteries do we think this will probably take ? user interface : project manager : probably some e either two or four . two ? like it . industrial designer : at four it 's gon na be too heavy , so that that 's not our problem . people can change it every month . project manager : excellent . industrial designer : they wo n't know until after they bought it . user interface : marketing : project manager : this is consumerism . industrial designer : project manager : alright so for the electronics our choices are simpl simple chip-on-print , regular chip-on-print , advanced chip-on-print , sample sensor , sample speaker . industrial designer : . user interface : we 're advanced chip are we ? industrial designer : that 's the advanced chip-on-print , yeah . project manager : 'kay , we have one of those . 'kay then the case is a probably it 's double curved . industrial designer : double curved , yes . project manager : case materials are industrial designer : plastic . project manager : plastic . um i guess it 's two , since one for the top , one for the bottom . industrial designer : n no . project manager : is that right or is it just one ? industrial designer : no that 's just one . project manager : maybe it 's one because of the industrial designer : it 's just one mo single mould , we can do that . project manager : 'kay . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : right . project manager : i guess it does n't matter 'cause the price on that one is zero , which is nice . industrial designer : exactly , right . project manager : special colour ? industrial designer : that 's not a special colour . it 's a specially ugly colour , but it 's not special . marketing : bright yellow . project manager : interface type . we have pushbutton , scroll-wheel interface , integrated scroll-wheel pushbutton , and an lcd display . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : s user interface : that 's yeah . project manager : so we actually have the lcd display marketing : user interface : and then project manager : and then is it the integrated or is it user interface : i 'd say the integrated . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yes unfortunately . project manager : 'kay . button supplement ? special colour ? um special form ? special material . industrial designer : we could of course make the buttons wood . project manager : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : say mahogany or so marketing : it 'd look really lovely . project manager : or titanium . industrial designer : mm-hmm or titanium . project manager : they cost us all the same . marketing : yeah . user interface : remote control . project manager : well we only have one button so really we should n't be charged , industrial designer : uh just marketing : industrial designer : project manager : we should n't be charged anything for the the button supplements . user interface : no that 's getting a bit tiny . project manager : um user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : i 'd ignore that . marketing : leave it blank . project manager : okay . we 're gon na leave that one blank because we run on a lcd and scroll . so our total is fifteen point five . which i believe is industrial designer : yeah that 's too much . project manager : by three euros over . industrial designer : it 's hard to believe . so we 'll go for the hand dynamo huh ? project manager : user interface : marketing : project manager : so the only thing better than um a banana-shaped remote is one that you shake . user interface : if it w what if we completely took out the the one single button we 've got on . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : and just had a scroll wheel interface . and the lcd display . i suppose the lcd c_ display 's the one that 's pushing it up a bit though . project manager : yeah 'cause the marketing : project manager : well 'cause we have to have both right ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i mean let 's let 's face it , it also depends on the software on the on the television . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you can have the the information that this thing transmits be being displayed on the on the screen . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so s yeah let 's take away the user interface : yeah you could maybe take out the lcd dis display even , industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : if it if it comes up on the computer itsel on the tv itself . industrial designer : right . project manager : so we may not need the lcd display ? user interface : uh that is possible yeah . industrial designer : right . we may not need it . there you go . project manager : well there we go . industrial designer : perfect . project manager : twelve point five . user interface : there we go . marketing : perfect . project manager : okay . so we just remove our marketing : industrial designer : user interface : screen . marketing : project manager : screen here . user interface : make it a bigger dial . industrial designer : user interface : easier to use . even easier to use then . project manager : industrial designer : okay , the user interface : marketing : project manager : besides look at what the lcd does to our lovely remote . user interface : marketing : project manager : back to the design room boys . industrial designer : so we can just take away a heck of a lot of the marketing : user interface : marketing : . industrial designer : there you go . central ? marketing : what 's the blue part ? user interface : that was just industrial designer : oh that 's just user interface : we ran out of yellow . marketing : oh that 's the batteries . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : there you go user interface : there you go . industrial designer : . oops . user interface : even simpler . marketing : looks more like a banana . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : there you go . user interface : for all those fruit lovers out there . industrial designer : one more criteria . project manager : marketing : project manager : okay so the costs under twelve point five euro . was no . we redesigned it . now it 's yes . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : next slide . project evaluation . uh project process , satisfaction with , for example , room for creativity , leadership , teamwork , means , new ideas found . um so i guess that let 's see here . i think that perhaps the project evaluation 's just supposed to be completed by me . but i 'd like to hear your thoughts . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : fair enough . user interface : marketing : trying to fill in some time there . project manager : uh h what did you think of our project process ? industrial designer : great . user interface : i think we did yeah i think we did quite well . um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : good . marketing : good teamwork . industrial designer : just half a day , you have a remote . there you go . user interface : yeah . right from the start of the day . project manager : yeah i think user interface : we sort of knew where we were going straight away i thought . project manager : we st we started off a little little weak . our leadership was quite weak in the beginning . marketing : project manager : um um marketing : project manager : but as the day went along we had more idea of what we were doing . um room for creativity ? there was that . um i think we tried a lotta different things and um i think it was um interesting as you guys brought up more um information and studies that we were right on with a lot of those things . um you guys worked together well as a team . and um the means ? which was the whiteboard and the pens . user interface : yeah . we 've used the whiteboard . industrial designer : super super . project manager : i had some problem with the pen i think , but minus your p marketing : minus your powerpoint fiasco . industrial designer : well that 's not my fault . that 's obviously the people i work for uh that work for me , marketing : no i know . i 'm project manager : well marketing : yeah . incom industrial designer : uh they 've just you know user interface : project manager : have a industrial designer : heads are gon na roll , believe me . project manager : we have a list of employees that you would like fired . user interface : marketing : user interface : industrial designer : yes yes . project manager : okay . n new ideas found ? um industrial designer : marketing : mm . kinda . project manager : yes for the remote . maybe no not f for user interface : technology used . project manager : technology . alright . closing . costs are within the budget . project is evaluated . um complete the final questionnaire and meeting summary . that 's it . user interface : excellent . project manager : and i still have to do my minutes for the last meeting . marketing : project manager : actually . um so there will probably be another questionnaire coming up . and then we 'll have to check with the main boss whether we can , what goes on after that . marketing : we might have a while though . industrial designer : . </s>
<s> how did project manager and user interface introduce the prototype of the remote control ? </s> project manager : yep . soon as i get this . okay . this is our last meeting . um i 'll go ahead and go through the minutes from the previous meeting . uh and then we 'll have a , the prototype presentation . um then we will um do an evaluation . uh or we 'll see what , what we need to have under the criteria for the evaluation . then we 'll go through the finance and see if we fall within the budget . um then we 'll do the evaluation , and then we can finish up after that with um any changes that we 'll need to make , or hopefully everything will fall right in line . um let 's see , minutes from the last meeting . um we looked at uh the the trends . we had uh the fashion trends that people want a fancy look-and-feel . it was twice as important as anything else . um they liked fruit and vegetables in the new styles . um and a spongy feel . so we were talking about trying to incorporate those into our prototype . um they wanted limited buttons and simplicity . um then we looked at the uh the method for coming up with our own remote . um looking at other other devices . um the ipod , we really liked the look of that . um we also had uh the kid 's remote for a simple idea . um a two part remote , which was what were were originally looking at . uh and then um there was talk of spee uh speech recognition um becoming more uh predominant and easier to use . but i think we 've still decided not to go with that . then we looked at the components um the materials for the case , the different energy sources , the different types of chips , um and made a decision on what we were going to use to make our remote . um and basically how , what were making for the prototype . so i 'm going to leave it at that and let you guys take over . user interface : the prototype discussion . project manager : the prototype yeah . do you need a this ? user interface : no . project manager : okay . industrial designer : can try to plug that in there user interface : there is our remo the banana . marketing : industrial designer : but user interface : um yeah basically we we st went with the colour yellow . um working on the principle of a fruit which was mentioned , it 's basically designed around a banana . project manager : user interface : um but it would be held in such a fashion , marketing : user interface : where it is , obviously it would n't be that floppy 'cause this would be hard plastic . these would be like the rubber , the rubber grips . so that 's so that would hopefully help with grip , or like the ergonomics of it . um but all the controlling would be done with this scroll wheel . you have to use your imagination a little bit . and this here represents the screen , where you , where you 'd go through . project manager : very nice . user interface : and the the simplest functions would be um almost identical to an ipod , where that one way ch through channels , that way th other way through channels . volume up and down . and then to access the more complicated functions you 'd you sorta go , you press that and go through the menus . it 's that that simple . that just represents the infrared uh beam . that 's a simple on and off switch . um i do n't know , we could use the voice . t that blue bits should be yellow , that that 'd be where the batteries would be i suppose . and um that 's about it . it 's as simple as you , we could make it really . industrial designer : right . user interface : is there anything you want to add ? industrial designer : that 's what we have there . that 's plastic . plastic covered with rubber . we might uh add some more underneath here . maybe give it , give it a form . i mean you 're supposed to hold it like that , but um just if you grab it , take it from somewhere , user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so yeah , user interface : does n't make much make much difference . industrial designer : you have some rub yeah . user interface : you could work left-handed or right-handed i suppose . industrial designer : exactly , use both . might as well think about user interface : t the actual thing might be smaller . industrial designer : th think about the button as well . like either put either one one on either side or user interface : yeah . project manager : what but what 's that button ? industrial designer : not do it at all . it 's a quick on-off button . user interface : just the on and off . project manager : uh , 'kay . industrial designer : that 's um marketing : industrial designer : yeah i think it 's pretty important . so you do n't have to fiddle with that . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : right ? um that 's not um project manager : </s>
<s> how did marketing design the product evaluation ? </s> marketing : i do . okay . you guys are gon na help me do an evaluation of the criteria . um . okay . so first i 'll just discuss some of the criteria that i found . just based on the past trend reports that i was looking at earlier . and then we 'll do a group evaluation of the prototype . and then we will calculate the average score to see how we did . um so the criteria we 're gon na be looking at are the complaints um that we heard from the users who were interviewed earlier . so we 're gon na be doing it based on a seven point scale . and one is going to mean true , that we did actually achieve that . with seven being false , we did not achieve that . . okay . so for the first one , we need to decide , did we solved the problem of the users who complained about an ugly remote ? industrial designer : . user interface : project manager : i think it 's definitely different than anything else out there . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss during the product evaluation about its feature to solve customers ' concerns ? </s> project manager : it 's bright . user interface : it 's bright . it 's project manager : it still has your traditional black . user interface : it 's curved . it 's not there 's no sharp industrial designer : user interface : angles to it . project manager : yep , not angular . industrial designer : i 'd say , when it comes to the ergonomics , the form and stuff , yes that 's definitely more beautiful than your average . marketing : industrial designer : however the colour , we do n't have a say in that . marketing : yeah i think the colours detract a little bit . user interface : some people might say it . yeah . industrial designer : that has been , that has been dictated pretty much by the company . so uh to answer that honestly i would rather say like uh , we have not solved the problem completely with the ugly remote because the colour is ugly , definitely . project manager : yep . marketing : that 's true . yeah . project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : 's nothing you can say about that . i mean i much prefer something like brushed chrome with that form . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but project manager : yeah something more modern to go a a modern colour to go with the modern form . industrial designer : right . right . it 's different . you do n't want your uh three feet huge lcd dis display in your living room that 's hanging from the wall to be controlled with something like that . marketing : um okay so , do you think , since we this was a a sign criteria , do you think maybe we should put it somewhere in the middle then ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : does that sound good ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : what do you think ? three ? four ? project manager : i would say marketing : five ? project manager : four . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : four is fair . okay . project manager : very non-committal , four . marketing : okay , the second one . did we make it simple for new users ? industrial designer : it 's very intuitive , i think yeah . user interface : yeah . i think that was the main aim , one of the main aims that we had . industrial designer : s give it a one . project manager : yeah . marketing : 'kay . okay . um , do the controls now match the operating behaviour of the users ? user interface : uh yeah . 'cause we 've we 've brought it down to basically four controls most common , which are channel and volume . marketing : i 'd say that project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . user interface : and then the other ones are just a matter of just going , just scrolling further . project manager : s scrolling through and selecting a few . industrial designer : right . so that 's a one . marketing : so one ? project manager : i think that 's a one . marketing : yeah ? okay . okay um the fourth one . how about the problem of a remote being easily lost ? one of the number one complaints . industrial designer : something that big and that yellow you just do n't lose anymore . project manager : user interface : yeah . marketing : whether you want to or not , you 're not gon na lose it . user interface : it 's bright yellow . industrial designer : user interface : bright yellow 's hard to lose . but um if we were to , if we were , that , the speech recognition . that , we could maybe just use that solely for the the finding thing . that was what we 'd we 'd mentioned . project manager : so if we incorporate speech recognition into it then it could user interface : just just to use , to find it when it was lost . but like i said , like i do n't think you 'd lose something so yellow so easily . industrial designer : oops . hmm . user interface : and it 's not gon na fall , like a rectangle would slip down behind things . that 's gon na be a difficult shape to industrial designer : well what project manager : and it is quite bright and user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : maybe in the middle again , three or four or something ? project manager : uh marketing : okay . user interface : i mean you know loo losing things is one of those things that people can lose , i mean a million ways . project manager : yeah . user interface : you can pick it up and walk away with it and then you 've lost it . marketing : that 's true . project manager : but if we do go with the , with the speech recognition , then it , then our scale goes up quite a bit i think . industrial designer : oh yeah . you probably user interface : yeah . project manager : probably two . you know . if we eliminate the fact that you know it 's impossible to guarantee that it 's not gon na be lost then user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'd say two . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : with the speech recognition , which of course may be changed depending on budget . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : y you could add an extra feature actually . which makes this thing raise hell when you remove it too far from the television . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we could add that but that 's nothing we have thought of so far . project manager : which , which may be cheaper than speech recognition if it were just a user interface : yeah true . but i mean d just those whistling , clapping key rings you have . they 're cheap . marketing : annoying alarm or something ? project manager : industrial designer : it 's it 's marketing : yeah . user interface : so it ca n't be that industrial designer : um the it 's based on this anti anti-theft technology for suitcases and stuff , user interface : expensive . project manager : some sort of proximity user interface : yeah . industrial designer : where you have one piece that 's attached to your luggage , another piece that starts beeping . that ca n't cost much . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so that can also easily be integrated because these things are small enough to to hide , so you have one piece , you have to glue somewhere behind your stick it behind your tv and the other user interface : stick it on the tv . project manager : pray that you do n't accidentally lose that piece . industrial designer : right . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : that 'd be tough then . well also your remote would uh alarm you if somebody stole you t your television , yeah . ran off with it without taking the beautiful remote control . project manager : user interface : yeah . marketing : so . are we adding one of these two features ? industrial designer : let 's add one of those features and say yes . marketing : gon na say okay . project manager : okay . marketing : so we 're back to a one ? or a two ? </s>
<s> how did the team evaluate the product about its technologically innovative features ? </s> marketing : two , 'kay . okay . are we technologically innovative ? industrial designer : uh user interface : i 'd say so . industrial designer : user interface : uh do n't get many mo remote controls with industrial designer : it 's all just user interface : screens on . industrial designer : it 's all just stolen technology when it comes down to user interface : yeah it 's stolen technology . marketing : from ipod yeah . project manager : it 's user interface : but we have . project manager : but there 's not a lot of yellow , there 's not a lotta yellow . marketing : but for remotes yeah . project manager : course that was n't really industrial designer : right right . project manager : we were kinda forced to take that colour . marketing : two ? three ? user interface : 'cause it 's stolen . project manager : i do n't know that we are that innovative , to tell you the truth . user interface : no maybe not . industrial designer : yeah not really . marketing : but how many remotes do you see like this ? user interface : project manager : if we added the screaming factor then we go up . industrial designer : marketing : not so many . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : um i would say we 're probably at four . industrial designer : right . marketing : really ? okay . that 's gon na hurt us . user interface : marketing : okay . um spongy material ? industrial designer : yeah well you have that , kind of , sort of . project manager : we have some spongy , yeah . user interface : yeah as much as as needed , i think . marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : it 's not a one though . one would be the whole thing project manager : yeah . because it 's only got what , these parts are the grips and perhaps the back side the bottom the underneath on the back . industrial designer : to fold and stuff . yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so that 's a four at most . project manager : probably a four at most . possibly even a five . marketing : and lastly , did we put the fashion in electronics ? project manager : industrial designer : y yes . user interface : yeah . marketing : i 'd say we did . project manager : if your fashion is b is carmen miranda , you betcha . industrial designer : more user interface : yeah . marketing : </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the product cost ? </s> project manager : we have energy source , electronics , case . then we have case material supplements , interface type , and then button supplements . okay so uh first of all energy source , we picked battery . um and how many batteries do we think this will probably take ? user interface : project manager : probably some e either two or four . two ? like it . industrial designer : at four it 's gon na be too heavy , so that that 's not our problem . people can change it every month . project manager : excellent . industrial designer : they wo n't know until after they bought it . user interface : marketing : project manager : this is consumerism . industrial designer : project manager : alright so for the electronics our choices are simpl simple chip-on-print , regular chip-on-print , advanced chip-on-print , sample sensor , sample speaker . industrial designer : . user interface : we 're advanced chip are we ? industrial designer : that 's the advanced chip-on-print , yeah . project manager : 'kay , we have one of those . 'kay then the case is a probably it 's double curved . industrial designer : double curved , yes . project manager : case materials are industrial designer : plastic . project manager : plastic . um i guess it 's two , since one for the top , one for the bottom . industrial designer : n no . project manager : is that right or is it just one ? industrial designer : no that 's just one . project manager : maybe it 's one because of the industrial designer : it 's just one mo single mould , we can do that . project manager : 'kay . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : right . project manager : i guess it does n't matter 'cause the price on that one is zero , which is nice . industrial designer : exactly , right . project manager : special colour ? industrial designer : that 's not a special colour . it 's a specially ugly colour , but it 's not special . marketing : bright yellow . project manager : interface type . we have pushbutton , scroll-wheel interface , integrated scroll-wheel pushbutton , and an lcd display . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : s user interface : that 's yeah . project manager : so we actually have the lcd display marketing : user interface : and then project manager : and then is it the integrated or is it user interface : i 'd say the integrated . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yes unfortunately . project manager : 'kay . button supplement ? special colour ? um special form ? special material . industrial designer : we could of course make the buttons wood . project manager : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : say mahogany or so marketing : it 'd look really lovely . project manager : or titanium . industrial designer : mm-hmm or titanium . project manager : they cost us all the same . marketing : yeah . user interface : remote control . project manager : well we only have one button so really we should n't be charged , industrial designer : uh just marketing : industrial designer : project manager : we should n't be charged anything for the the button supplements . user interface : no that 's getting a bit tiny . project manager : um user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : i 'd ignore that . marketing : leave it blank . project manager : okay . we 're gon na leave that one blank because we run on a lcd and scroll . so our total is fifteen point five . which i believe is industrial designer : yeah that 's too much . project manager : by three euros over . industrial designer : it 's hard to believe . so we 'll go for the hand dynamo huh ? project manager : user interface : marketing : project manager : so the only thing better than um a banana-shaped remote is one that you shake . user interface : if it w what if we completely took out the the one single button we 've got on . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : and just had a scroll wheel interface . and the lcd display . i suppose the lcd c_ display 's the one that 's pushing it up a bit though . project manager : yeah 'cause the marketing : project manager : well 'cause we have to have both right ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i mean let 's let 's face it , it also depends on the software on the on the television . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you can have the the information that this thing transmits be being displayed on the on the screen . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so s yeah let 's take away the user interface : yeah you could maybe take out the lcd dis display even , industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : if it if it comes up on the computer itsel on the tv itself . industrial designer : right . project manager : so we may not need the lcd display ? user interface : uh that is possible yeah . industrial designer : right . we may not need it . there you go . project manager : well there we go . industrial designer : perfect . project manager : twelve point five . user interface : there we go . marketing : perfect . project manager : okay . so we just remove our marketing : industrial designer : user interface : screen . marketing : project manager : screen here . user interface : make it a bigger dial . industrial designer : user interface : easier to use . even easier to use then . project manager : industrial designer : okay , the user interface : marketing : project manager : besides look at what the lcd does to our lovely remote . user interface : marketing : project manager : back to the design room boys . industrial designer : so we can just take away a heck of a lot of the marketing : user interface : marketing : . industrial designer : there you go . central ? marketing : what 's the blue part ? user interface : that was just industrial designer : oh that 's just user interface : we ran out of yellow . marketing : oh that 's the batteries . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : there you go user interface : there you go . industrial designer : . oops . user interface : even simpler . marketing : looks more like a banana . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : there you go . user interface : for all those fruit lovers out there . </s>
<s> what did the team say about the project and overall process ? </s> project manager : uh h what did you think of our project process ? industrial designer : great . user interface : i think we did yeah i think we did quite well . um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : good . marketing : good teamwork . industrial designer : just half a day , you have a remote . there you go . user interface : yeah . right from the start of the day . project manager : yeah i think user interface : we sort of knew where we were going straight away i thought . project manager : we st we started off a little little weak . our leadership was quite weak in the beginning . marketing : project manager : um um marketing : project manager : but as the day went along we had more idea of what we were doing . um room for creativity ? there was that . um i think we tried a lotta different things and um i think it was um interesting as you guys brought up more um information and studies that we were right on with a lot of those things . um you guys worked together well as a team . and um the means ? which was the whiteboard and the pens . user interface : yeah . we 've used the whiteboard . industrial designer : super super . project manager : i had some problem with the pen i think , but minus your p marketing : minus your powerpoint fiasco . industrial designer : well that 's not my fault . that 's obviously the people i work for uh that work for me , marketing : no i know . i 'm project manager : well marketing : yeah . incom industrial designer : uh they 've just you know user interface : project manager : have a industrial designer : heads are gon na roll , believe me . project manager : we have a list of employees that you would like fired . user interface : marketing : user interface : industrial designer : yes yes . project manager : okay . n new ideas found ? um industrial designer : marketing : mm . kinda . project manager : yes for the remote . maybe no not f for user interface : technology used . project manager : technology . alright . closing . costs are within the budget . project is evaluated . um complete the final questionnaire and meeting summary . that 's it . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : can i close this ? user interface : uh we do n't have any changes , do we ? project manager : oh , okay . user interface : so no . project manager : there we go . okay , here we are again . detailed design oh , come on . well ah s forgot to insert the minutes , but it 's about the same thing we discussed before . uh could open that anyway , think . other design anyway , we took as we took w we took rubber as as the material last time . we also that you 're just busy with it . took the advanced chip to t uh implement the advanced features . well , we discussed the design , no sharp corners , we rounded it off , like you see on the other screen , which is fine . um we agreed that the colour should be b uh yellow and black . yellow in the back because it 's m trendy , more trendy than black anyway . so then we ca yeah . we agreed that we would implement both the lcd and speech recognition , but i 'll get to that in a moment . 'cause some changes in the finances have left us implications anyway . so so , like i said , we had no insight in finances , no prices , but we have 'em now , and it 's bad . anyway . we are oh . prototype presentation , well first you guys built the prototype . so you could could present that . but um let 's see what be handy to do . nee no , you just go ahead and present the w we 'll scrap it later because what ? industrial designer : i think it 's more or less the same as we had . user interface : it 's basically what we agreed upon , project manager : oh that 's user interface : but just a little bit more specified . industrial designer : no much s project manager : has n't changed that much , huh ? industrial designer : no no no , not at all . project manager : i did n't expect anyway . you just coloured it . user interface : uh s final design . basically in what we discussed , cover and buttons will be made of rubber , yellow colour , black components , as you can see right over here . project manager : mm-hmm . i like the menu . user interface : we chose a different type of colour for the menu . a bit darker yellow so that it com really shows in this keypad . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : if you put them all black , it 's not really that good a contrast . project manager : and i suppose the the the yellow is not printed on the on the rubber . it 's it 's part of the rubber , i suppose . user interface : so probab project manager : i think that 's more i think that 's more durable anyway than printed on to user interface : yeah . that 's the be and it i guess it 's more easier to just paint it on the rubber industrial designer : yeah , of course . user interface : than to uh industrial designer : that 's uh the integration story again . marketing : mm yeah . okay . user interface : so we have it 's a bit round shaped , project manager : oh yeah . user interface : that 's what we had uh we chose the buttons to be uh teletext , okay button , favourite channel and the mute . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so that 's basically what we chose there . project manager : okay . user interface : if you have anything to add , please interrupt me . industrial designer : no , uh this is just a description of what we see there . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so user interface : oh . industrial designer : speaks for itself . marketing : yeah . user interface : that 's pretty much it . project manager : okay . now it 's my time to ruin everything . well , not ruin everything , but no , nah . user interface : oh sorry . project manager : finances , that 's what we have here , what you drew . we have battery power , we have advanced chips and the sam the sensor . the sample sensor and uh for speak recognition anyway . so which you see the which is de o one of the most expensive parts . so well , we have sin one curve , a design . rubber design . and we had a special colour . suppose yellow is a special colour . so just half a euro for you have pushbuttons and an lcd display . you have the total of seventeen euros in production cost , which is higher than the twelve and a half that we are permitted to use . so , easy . what do we scrap . well think i had the best solution that i came up with is just to s take out the speech recognition . user interface : i 'd say that too . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : because the lcd has more support on customer side . there are ninety one percent of uh the people , or something like that . but ninety percent who favour an lcd display , and only sixty percent that favour speech recognition . i think it 's also harder to user interface : uh we do n't really have a extra function with the speech sample , marketing : yeah . user interface : which you ca n't do with a normal remote control , project manager : . so i ju user interface : which people already do . so project manager : i took that out . so and so it 's still stuck with thirteen , so i had to take out the special colour i suppose . and , yeah , i did n't see anything else i could take out . yeah , i could take out the push-buttons , marketing : pushbut project manager : but we need those . so , generally what i came up with , in order to be cou to to have production cost of twelve and a half euros , spe scrap speech recognition industrial designer : huh . marketing : special colour , yeah . project manager : and the separate covers can account for the if people want it , we 'll just then we 'll do it in black . we 'll just deliver it in black , have the it has all the function that it 's supposed to have , and if you want it if you want the custom design , then you can buy the separate covers . user interface : well , project manager : you make it d orange or whatever you want . user interface : i 'd i tend to disagree with you on that , because the trend issue was a big issue when we started designing this . project manager : it was a big issue , but user interface : so ca n't we just basically extend it to thirteen ? project manager : i 'll just go back . uh let 's just let 's see what okay , let 's just see what we no , we we have to be under twelve and a half . marketing : yeah , it project manager : it it 's not uh the project is a no-go if we go over twelve and a half , industrial designer : okay , but there 's another problem . marketing : and the p user interface : okay . industrial designer : but there 's another problem . marketing : what industrial designer : if we take another cover , for instance black , then we also need another button frame , 'cause black and black does n't work obviously . project manager : i think you that 's what you were ass assigned to do really , to to see how b th both those work together . industrial designer : huh . huh . yeah . project manager : so i think yeah , it 's i think it 's y one of the it 's a good way to um to help people uh to make to keep the product trendy too . just keep you just make new covers for the for it , like we agreed before . industrial designer : right . i agree . project manager : and everything that 's left is is the basic function that uh that we want our product to have . because the expensive parts are in either the advanced chip . but we need that for the lcd display . user interface : yeah . we do . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : then again , we have the lcd display , which is also expensive . b yeah , but those go together . and yeah , we could take out the curve . industrial designer : or say let 's lose rubber , take plastic . user interface : we could take out a curve indeed . project manager : could we could take out the curve . is that an option ? marketing : . project manager : for you ? industrial designer : although we are demolishing a little bit the style . marketing : but uh the and user interface : i think the colour is more important than the really the curve , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but project manager : user interface : because if you just end up with an entirely black remote control project manager : i think it 's it it does ruin it , marketing : yeah . the people project manager : but the fact that i t took that decision or t industrial designer : yeah . project manager : took this example actually , not really decision , but the example is because we do offer the um the possibility of adding your own custom covers . so you can change any colour you want . so it 's just you deliver a basic remote control with a possibility to change you into whatever you want . industrial designer : can we then not also uh change the material ? we take plastic for the basic cover project manager : you can take plastic , industrial designer : and project manager : but i d it 's something that 's stuck into my mind is that something that really came forward from the marketing research is that people like the the the the squishy feeling of the spongy feeling of the marketing : spongy , yeah . industrial designer : we can put those to the to the other covers . project manager : and it really makes it also makes it different from the existing remote controls , marketing : yeah . project manager : because they 're all plastic . marketing : and project manager : so which in in turn industrial designer : that 's true . project manager : rubber would increase durability industrial designer : but project manager : because it does n't break . industrial designer : okay . but what do you then suggest we 'd lose ? because we have to lose two things and i guess . project manager : i al like i said , i lost the speech recognition and i lost the special colour , marketing : but project manager : which would make this black a black and grey . industrial designer : okay , and that 's enough ? project manager : yeah , that 's that that that 's enough , because user interface : so black and grey is okay . project manager : i guess those are the basic colours . marketing : but project manager : so oh . user interface : which we can fabricate , project manager : i think those are basic col they want to user interface : okay . marketing : the people want to pay for for it , so why why uh do we have to keep us uh uh um on the twelve and a half ? project manager : to ensure the profit . that that 's th that 's the order . we 're just uh we 're the project team and we got our our orders from the pro from the boss of our company marketing : yeah . project manager : which say we do n't wan na spend more than twelve fifty for this . marketing : but we can take a risk . project manager : but that 's not for our that 's not our decision to take . we have a budget of twelve fifty per product . user interface : no , we basically marketing : okay , yeah . project manager : so user interface : we need to stick to that . project manager : stick that . i do n't think it 's really bad either . i mean if we we have the the backup of or the backup design thing marketing : i hope the people will like it , project manager : to have marketing : but project manager : i think they would do . th i think they do like because yo we you we agree upon that the that the the the cover thing was a nice idea , marketing : project manager : because p you could have all sort of designs while at the same time just manufacturing one product , one basic product which you could turn into any any taste you want . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i think it 's the best solution to make those cu custom covers for the design aspect industrial designer : perhaps we should make m marketing : yeah . project manager : and keep the functionality between of within the th the boundaries of the your f uh your budget . marketing : the first sheet . project manager : so industrial designer : perhaps we should make clear to our customer that we had to do this to stay under the cost . and that 's uh they know that this is an option and that we had to drop the option to stay under the cost , that they know that . project manager : well i do n't think yeah . is it worth is it is it industrial designer : perhaps they decide tha user interface : but they do n't project manager : does it mean anything to the customer ? like , it like , we do n't care we do n't care that you had to industrial designer : of course . perhaps they uh no , but perhaps they think uh okay , the cover is such a nice idea , uh let 's that that then they uh that allow us to make some more costs . project manager : true , industrial designer : we ca we uh we can at least tell them that project manager : but we did we did n't get that . so i think it 's industrial designer : you do n't know that . project manager : it should either be a pack , maybe we sh that should be sold in in the s in stores with with a standard cover or something . user interface : well project manager : but industrial designer : no , i 'm not uh talking about that cost but the one that g has given us the order to design this . we could at least m uh make it like this , like you said , project manager : they could , but uh industrial designer : and then tell them okay , we had to drop this and that , just that you know . it is an still an option , but not for this price . project manager : it 's an option , but yeah , it 's true . so actually uh it 's not that much of an increase , but yeah . we can not contact them . user interface : and if we project manager : it 's just the order that we got . industrial designer : exactly , project manager : so that 's what we got ta go with . industrial designer : but marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's either one fi just just to get it f just to get it through final , it 's either turned into plastic , drop the squishy feel , make it make it more breakable , marketing : yeah . project manager : um or turn it yellow . so it 's uh something we have to decide on . industrial designer : i 'd say lose the curve and the colour project manager : i say lose the curve . oh that 's true , industrial designer : and project manager : we could lose the c i forgot that , yeah , sorry . uh the curve . so user interface : so which curve is that ba project manager : that 's just this one just d this is the banana curve . user interface : that 's basically that curve . project manager : so this would this would be straight . user interface : so we could u still have the comfort . marketing : yeah , that 's better . project manager : no , uh no , that would be a curve inside the thing , i guess . no , would ju then it would just be a straight remote . just like like that . which would , yeah , turn it into something far more ordinary . we could make it yellow then , user interface : i second that . project manager : but you second that , you second that we lose the curve . user interface : no , that it would turn out to be a pretty straight-forward remote control . project manager : okay , yeah . user interface : so that 's not really that marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : so i think it would be a good idea to keep the curve to separate it from the rest of the remote control world , so to speak . so we keep the curve . so the only only solution is either to use the l y lose the yellow or lose the rubber . user interface : i would project manager : and i 'm in favour of keeping the rubber , because it has more more advantages than the colour yellow has . industrial designer : oh . i agree . user interface : yeah . i would say i would agree with you on the colour , because that 's an extra option , an extra service we can deliver for a little bit of more money . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , um user interface : so we can always do that . project manager : i guess people are willing to pay for that . so i think we can take that option and just with uh with the idea in the back of our head that you can customise your remote control . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i think that would still make it a nice product . okay , we 're final on that . so it 's too bad we ca n't make the whole super thing . but anyways we 're here . um yeah . user interface : which is basically what we discussed . project manager : this we discussed just now . that 's just now just we could just discuss how the project went . i mean , was kind of marketing : and i want to do that . project manager : i sort of expected that everything would turn out this way , but because you yeah , everything can not be for free . we did n't i think it was too bad we did n't have the financial info the last time . because that was i th it was really essential really user interface : we could have project manager : to ma because we spent uh uh entire stage designing a product of which we had no idea what it would cost . so we just put something marketing : yeah . project manager : i think it 's really nor not in stroke with reality actually . marketing : project manager : so industrial designer : me too , i felt a bit blind throughout the project , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : because in the beginning i had no list of available materials , project manager : yeah , i think would have been . marketing : yeah . project manager : materials would be ok industrial designer : and then i d had not list of available c finances . marketing : but project manager : at least the last meeting i would have expected had to have that . industrial designer : so project manager : so i suppose marketing : let 's um see um project manager : yeah , let 's see if it sells . i mean i suppose this sells , because it 's very very extended . marketing : um project manager : but user interface : well i hope it sells . marketing : let 's uh project manager : i suppose it sells , because it 's good . i mean it 's got everything for the for the reasonable price , because we did n't know what it 's gon na cost anyway . marketing : hmm . okay , let 's eval evaluate uh the product of us , our design . um i have some uh a method , a requirements and scale of . i uh will pre present uh some statements and we will decided together wha what if it 's true or false project manager : okay . marketing : and uh then we see uh if the requirements of the user are fulfilled or not . project manager : have been met , okay . marketing : and i will uh make a new blank sheet project manager : yeah . marketing : so so the buttons , the look and feel . i thought it was okay , but the advanced uh settings , um screen , audio and channel project manager : they 're stuck under menu . user interface : which are basically accessible through the menu button . marketing : we are not project manager : for the menu . i think those are totally met , because we we really took them for the they have the feel they want , marketing : oh the menu button is it . user interface : yeah . marketing : hi oh , okay . project manager : they have the simplicity they want . marketing : then it 's all uh s project manager : i think it 's very uh very well met . either two or one maybe . marketing : it 's true . project manager : i think we took that everything they wanted into consideration . marketing : yeah . project manager : so it could either be a two or a one . marketing : so d oh wait . uh pen . project manager : one and a half . user interface : which is not an option . marketing : the p oh yeah , project manager : just create our own option . marketing : it 's red , okay , but look and feel is everybo it 's true . project manager : yeah . marketing : so anyone ? and the next one uh yeah , when it 's lost uh you can find it . project manager : it 's perfect . even for deaf people , yeah . marketing : it 's project manager : it 's i do n't think it 's perfect , but we did everything possible to to get it back . user interface : to make it that way , yeah . project manager : because if it 's stuck in you couch , you can see the light . maybe you can hear it . but i mean we tried , marketing : yeah . project manager : so i think it that 's that deserves a one . definitely . marketing : and it 's and it 's yeah . to . that 's okay then . and the next one . how is that ? uh w we had we do n't have an uh manual , industrial designer : manual . project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think the lcd display could be a little bit more difficult then a normal remote control , marketing : but i think that 's a part of it . but project manager : i 'd use an remote control . user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : but then again , it 's for young people . so marketing : yeah , an lcd , it tells a lot about uh user interface : and it 's pretty straight-forward , industrial designer : yeah , i th project manager : it 's pretty straight-forward , uh-huh . user interface : you have a navigation no keys to navigate through the lcd menus . industrial designer : exactly . no , that 's true . i think it wo n't be a big problem . marketing : yeah . user interface : so marketing : so it 's a one user interface : one i d no , marketing : or a i do n't know . project manager : i think but we did n't even marketing : for the advanced uh settings . project manager : there was no issue on making a manual actually . we did n't really discuss it , marketing : no okay , that uh that 's true . project manager : but i do n't think it takes no , it really does does n't take time to learn , i think . we took it s it 's so easy , user interface : no , it it is pretty straight-forward . marketing : oh , so it project manager : we have so little button , everything speaks for itself really . so i think that 's industrial designer : ah . um project manager : yeah , we did n't it 's either two or one , i guess . marketing : takes no ti project manager : maybe it 's a two , because d uh the lcd is a little is a little new and there is there are some option hidden under the menu button . industrial designer : with the more important functions on . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i might make this a two instead of a one , i guess . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : and the lcd , you have to see it . project manager : so just make that a two . marketing : um mm oh , it 's a little bit learning . okay . uh yeah it 's uh a little bit same . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : but it tells you or not ? project manager : you can use the lcd in a good way . i think so . i think it 's perfect , the w where it is , what it can do , if it useful . i think so . marketing : but wha w industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : oh , yeah . what are we uh displaying on the lcd screen ? just uh only the channels and or industrial designer : the menus uh things like brightness and uh those kind of things we 've put in the menu , marketing : what uh ? industrial designer : because we have no buttons for those . user interface : well , basically the menu options indeed . but marketing : oh , in the lcd screen . project manager : no , y i mean in the lcd screen , the small screen . what does it display ? marketing : and for a channel selection , uh or that 's not project manager : well i thought it was i thought it was i thought that people wanted previews on their i 'm not sure if that even possible , marketing : yeah , i thought i thought too project manager : but marketing : but project manager : 'cause it 's this requires a quite quite a bit of band-width . marketing : yeah . project manager : i do n't think it 's possible really . but the they did n't really define in what should be used for . marketing : maybe a tv guide or something in your lcd uh project manager : but i think in for example like tv guides , i think that 's that th that you can transmit through it and everything . just for extra information on your programmes . marketing : yeah . yeah , it must be clear then what what what for we use it . project manager : but also things like like like menus or p how about preferences of your uh with configuring your remote control for favourite your favourite channel for example , how do you configure that . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so that could be done by lcd display . i think it 's good . no , maybe it 's not a one because it 's we 're not using it perfectly . we did n't give it i do n't thing over-discussing . now we gave it enough thought though . i think we d should just lower this . marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe maybe it 's a three though . we could 've used it more effectively probably . marketing : yeah , indeed . project manager : marketing : so everybody 's agree with an uh three on it , project manager : yeah , we are using it , user interface : yeah . two or three . marketing : it 's project manager : but it 's not it 's not poorly used , but it 's not efficiently used , i think . user interface : so marketing : yeah . project manager : we could have ev even lost the selection button and uh done everything via lcd selection . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's now it 's just extra to illustrate im uh extra features , marketing : yeah , i project manager : but okay . marketing : a three . industrial designer : nah , it 's not really only an extra . user interface : you can seven . industrial designer : no menus . marketing : ah , nothing , that 's a seven . uh that 's uh industrial designer : think about project manager : can you talk to remote control ? user interface : or we could say it project manager : well , it ca n't talk anymore . so we scrap that . marketing : yeah . user interface : or we could say neutral , project manager : oh yeah user interface : we 'cause we scratched the project manager : just to be a prick , but of course you can talk to your remote control , it does n't do anything . marketing : yeah yeah yeah yeah . project manager : but you c you can talk to it . marketing : not with the speech recognition . uh yeah , all the trends and no colours uh anymore . so project manager : well , we did take everything into consideration of course . uh the shape i shape is i marketing : yeah , uh um only in the curves . project manager : i think we yeah , i think that 's okay . marketing : but the colours , we do n't have special colours on it . user interface : no , we do n't have the colour . project manager : yeah , special co but we took into consideration the fact that it 's customisable user interface : so i marketing : yeah , project manager : to the fashi marketing : but we user interface : yes , but the end product so marketing : yeah , we do n't have it , so d project manager : we do n't have it we do have it , marketing : in the end product . project manager : it 's just sold as a package . industrial designer : but m project manager : it does it 's not part of the basic product . industrial designer : changing covers is also trend that we followed . project manager : it that that 's what i call trendy . i mean the shape is trendy . user interface : project manager : the the sh the the functions are trendy . it 's just the colours that are not supporting the basic model . because you ha marketing : now project manager : it 's just not affordable at the moment . user interface : maybe we should go with a two then , marketing : but it 's not a one . user interface : because it 's not perfect , because we ca n't do it initially , marketing : yeah . user interface : but we project manager : it 's possible , industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : oh . project manager : but you have to pay extra for the for the possibility of having it in a f a different colour . marketing : oh well oops . project manager : marketing : oh it 's a two , user interface : yeah . marketing : right ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : on the last one . uh that n that 's all . project manager : overall score . user interface : overall score . marketing : overall . it 's um project manager : one two three . sixteen . marketing : ten , sixteen three uh two project manager : two two point some two point something . marketing : two point seven or something like that . i do n't know why . user interface : ten , sixteen , divided by project manager : . user interface : is two two third . project manager : two and two thirds . marketing : um so project manager : marketing : we can say it 's it 's the product is it 's okay . project manager : it 's okay , but that 's yo m marketing : y not industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : mostly it 's it 's influenced by the fact that we did n't have enough resources to implement speech recognition . user interface : there 's industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause yeah , that gives you a seven , which ruins your your average . marketing : yeah . project manager : without that it would be like under it would n't yeah , it would be under two . so i think we have even with this it 's reasonable . marketing : woah . user interface : yeah , if we make it into a four , as in neutral , because we did n't implement it , so we ca n't say that we that it 's really not well implemented . we come out on a average of two one eighth . marketing : yeah . project manager : well i think it 's two is okay . user interface : so which is pretty w good . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , two is pretty good . user interface : it 's at least on the positive side . project manager : definitely . user interface : so we could definitely have done better if we 've had more resources , industrial designer : hmm , of course . marketing : yeah . user interface : but project manager : yeah , i think it 's probably i industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : i do admit that we d did miss a little or did n't sp did n't talk talk enough about the possibility of the lcd display . we could have used it more efficiently , marketing : yeah . project manager : we just did n't think of it that way . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , with . .. # user interface : true . project manager : so like i said , changing channels , everything hidden in your lcd display , so you just need the navigation buttons to do everything . marketing : the scale . industrial designer : but i think for this price , this is it 's really a reasonable product . project manager : i think we div i think we did very well , industrial designer : it 's a good product . project manager : uh ev even if you look at this score , we did quite well . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : oh . oh . yeah . marketing : with an lcd screen . project manager : it just looking for improvements what what you could have improved . so . industrial designer : but if pep people really want speech recognition , then they must be prepared to pu to pay more , because it 's can not be done for this . project manager : they sh they should get kids , and just stick 'em in tv and say change the channel . marketing : yeah , user interface : marketing : you can make 'em another one . industrial designer : hmm yeah . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : ah but for this price uh you can not ask that . project manager : i don ' think so . uh it 's just not it it 's not affordable . industrial designer : you can not th think of that project manager : or your sh you should lose the lcd screen probably , industrial designer : no , it 's not . project manager : but i think that 's i think the lcd screen is more worth than speech recognition . industrial designer : mm-hmm . oh it 's also more attractive . project manager : definitely . okay , that was that . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : so that 's the final product without the speakers , i guess . user interface : so did you project manager : let 's see , what was left in the the another one . hmm . yeah , marketing : project manager : we evaluate the product . general project , what 's i in for example , i thou i thought we were pretty creative in what we created . we took the whole new approach of making exchangeable cover for example , which i thought was pretty creative , because it was never never ever listed somewhere . marketing : favourite channel . project manager : well anyways . yeah , leadership is up to you . i mean perhaps i screwed up because i d put a put a speech recognition into it . but that 's not for me to decide . marketing : yeah , i know . yeah . project manager : i think we did pretty well as team-work though . because , yeah was very hard to work with one another if you can not communicate in the meantime , industrial designer : yes . hmm . project manager : because when i got the when i got the input for the financial results , initially of course i wanted to contact you . marketing : yeah , you 're working separate . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : say , look , this is you 're doing the wrong thing , marketing : yeah . project manager : you 're s you 're wasting your time now , because we 're implementing stuff that we can not afford . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , yeah yeah . project manager : so it would be better if y if there was more communication between uh marketing : yeah yeah yeah . direct uh communication with yeah . project manager : because that 's that 's what would w you what you would normally do , either call or email someone . user interface : and we could share information which we received . project manager : so that was too bad con was impossible here anyways . . industrial designer : that 's the same thing that i had in the beginning . everybody was using materials that s i did n't have . project manager : it did n't have industrial designer : so project manager : or did n't knew what they costs or whatever . marketing : yeah . project manager : there was just too little information about what things actually cost and if you could use them . user interface : yeah . project manager : so that was a little unclear i suppose . i think a smartboard smartboard is pretty cool . i think uh s especially for design issues , it 's very easy just to give your give your thoughts a little it 's easier to share them . marketing : my handwriting is little bit yeah . yeah . user interface : although for actual design i 'd say the response time should be a little bit higher , project manager : it 's a little less it the response time is le it 's very bad . user interface : because project manager : it 's good to visualise everything , but i think the response time should could be a lot better . user interface : the digital pen was definitely better to draw my ideas and to further elaborate on that . marketing : but th that 's project manager : definitely . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , it 's true . marketing : yeah , okay . user interface : so industrial designer : but there 's uh also one problem with this i noticed . uh you have to finish a page before going to a n project manager : no , you do n't have to . no , you do n't . i jin i did n't check the finish button . marketing : you can project manager : i just you just ditch it and you can copy it or whatever . marketing : done and then it 's okay . industrial designer : okay , i saw that uh project manager : uh only if you uh check the notes or press done . then it um then you can then it exports to word automatically . but it 's not necessary to check either one of those two . industrial designer : yeah , project manager : you can just preview your p you can just preview your page in the in the programme . industrial designer : but i made marketing : oh , okay . industrial designer : okay , but i made three pages marketing : okay , yeah . industrial designer : and they were not finished . and when the third one was finished , i wanted to download it and then it was not possible anymore , because you have to close all the pinnits uh the pages before going further . project manager : okay , before starting a ne a new page . marketing : okay . project manager : okay , that could be b . industrial designer : exactly . so we can not work on more than one page at same time . that 's not possible . project manager : okay . industrial designer : you have to finish it completely , user interface : oh can you ? okay . industrial designer : then download it , it 's then start a new one . project manager : yeah , okay . industrial designer : that 's not very uh handy , project manager : that 's industrial designer : but if you know that , then it 's not a problem . project manager : yeah , it 's understandable , okay . any new ideas ? yeah , more communication between between uh that 's the thing i noticed , that communication is very um very important , industrial designer : marketing : important to mm project manager : because if you get new information , it 's essential f for the other team-mates to know that as soon as possible , because you would avoid making doing extra work , because you were doing extra work now uh m working on the on the speech recognition , you have limitation both on the technical on the d on the design side . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i think that could have been better . but that 's i think it 's more of a a setting here that you can not communicate than uh than somewhere else . so user interface : yeah , well it could also possibly be well , is it a more real-time information base , so we can all see which information is available to one another . project manager : yeah , i think so . and l less p less spam probably . i 'm not sure i i 'm not sure you got spammed as well , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : but i get spammed like every t every two minutes there was a there was another email about master classes or something . industrial designer : ah . well project manager : so which were totally useless actually . i thought i should probably look into them , but they were all useless . so i just user interface : well , i personally did not have that , marketing : mm project manager : oh okay . user interface : but that 's probably your l description . project manager : user interface : but i also did n't not really . but still , you had that as well . is that we finished up the design and then we checked the website , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then there was just extra information . marketing : yeah , after after five minutes , uh industrial designer : . user interface : there was a little delay in the bit of a c crucial delay . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : yeah . project manager : i did n't have any uh more information , it 's just always the same here . so that 's that 's kind of a marketing : email uh project manager : it would change , but not for me . so i 'd i had no extra information to go on that one than what you give me actually . i could n't do any research myself or i see , that 's yeah , w i could have done a little extra work probably , then marketing : it 's project manager : but i was busy enough anyway . so marketing : yeah . project manager : any new ideas found ? or is that a 'cause uh yeah , it 's well , probably is . user interface : how much time do we have for this anyway ? project manager : i have no clue . that 's like oh , but it should i industrial designer : . project manager : if the project is evaluated and it was it was in b within budget , we should celebrate . so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay , marketing : industrial designer : bring out the beer . user interface : champagne . project manager : uh okay , think that 's about it . uh marketing : i want one for my own . project manager : i 'm not sure what we should still do though uh t let 's see what all your tasks were finished , right ? what you ha from your assistant . so let 's marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i have no more email . my coach is uh being very silent now . project manager : okay , marketing : yeah , project manager : i should i think i sh marketing : my personal coach i project manager : i still have the the total report to finish up . i think we took very little time now , because yeah , we 're in agreement , everything the design is okay . the one thing we missed though , we do n't have a product name . marketing : what project manager : how about you cook a how about you cook up a product name ? user interface : product name . industrial designer : we have n't think above about that . marketing : yeah , name . industrial designer : huh . it 's better than thi i think than a serial number . sony uh t_r_ something uh f means nothing to me . uh project manager : just marketing : or fruit name . project manager : oh , think of a catchy name . i 'll be working on this until the beep until it beeps . so industrial designer : like fruit names . marketing : fruit name or something like that . project manager : what ? fruit ? marketing : the banana remote or something . project manager : you do n't want it to resemble a banana . marketing : i do n't know . yeah , it 's the form of it . project manager : it 's not yellow anyway . user interface : the bana 'cause it 's not yellow anymore . project manager : it 's not yellow anymore . marketing : yeah oh , yeah . project manager : it is curved , but marketing : uh yeah . uh user interface : well , uh i was going for the r_c_ deluxe , but it 's not really a catchy name or anything , it 's more project manager : it 's industrial designer : uh at least it 's not something with numbers . numbers are so meaningless to the people . i mean marketing : yeah . user interface : something with our company name , marketing : that 's true . user interface : can we do anything with that ? industrial designer : . user interface : maybe there 's something on the website which will help us out . marketing : reaction , real reaction . project manager : industrial designer : real reaction . user interface : the reaction deluxe . project manager : real reaction future r_c_ . step into the future of of remote controlling your tv . user interface : is that a name or a c campaign ? marketing : project manager : no that 's a that 's a catchy slogan . user interface : yeah . project manager : control your remote control . user interface : or the the real reactor . industrial designer : real react . project manager : i go for future r_c_ probably . something like it 's short f industrial designer : the real reactor , i do n't find that uh that bad at all . marketing : . project manager : real reactor ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh that that 's user interface : you should write it down as a an option . industrial designer : because our name is real reaction . project manager : that makes me think of different products than a remote control really . marketing : . user interface : project manager : i 'm not sure . real reaction in a real marketing : zapping . the user interface : so that 's one option . project manager : real reactor . did n't notice . industrial designer : i 'm looking for things in the name . so that the first three letters are s the same . r_e_a_ r_e_a_ . user interface : should i write the banana down or project manager : i take f marketing : yeah , sure . project manager : yeah , take a banana . user interface : sure ? marketing : the banana . remote . banana recei r_c_ . industrial designer : the triple r_ . real reaction remotes control . triple r_ . marketing : remote . user interface : well i marketing : r_ three c_ . user interface : uh do you mean it like industrial designer : ? marketing : r_ three c_ . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you mean it like this ? industrial designer : yeah , that marketing : real reaction remote control . r_ three c_ . oh yeah . industrial designer : . . project manager : no , not like that . it should be it should be longer , because it 's not a product name that you f print on a box . industrial designer : i think triple r_ . project manager : just write out triple , like a word triple r_c_ , triple stripe oh . triple dash r_ dash s s c_ . industrial designer : does n't sound ? marketing : yeah , triple r_ . industrial designer : yeah . ah . marketing : triple r_c_ . the triple r_c_ , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : r_ s r_ three c_ . . project manager : r_ dash c_ . user interface : dash c_ ? industrial designer : i think i like it like this more . project manager : dash . triple r_ or triple r_c_ ? user interface : like a c_ right now or a dash in a c_ ? marketing : triple r_ dash . project manager : how about do both ? user interface : project manager : sure if it looks stupid . uh i think that the the r_c_ together takes away the the the image of it 's a triple uh the first the first one looks like it 's a triple remote control , marketing : that project manager : but it 's only a single remote control . and it 's especially on the triple r_ that 's important . the real reaction remote . industrial designer : i would huh . i would lose the c_ marketing : yeah , this yeah . industrial designer : and just name it triple r_ . user interface : is it triple r_c_s ? no . project manager : industrial designer : it sounds like uh thinking about two different things and combining it . marketing : triple remote . industrial designer : i would just say triple r_s triple r_ marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , triple r_ yeah , you can user interface : well , that 's another option . industrial designer : that 's also short , catchy . marketing : it 's okay . project manager : yeah , triple r_ . user interface : okay , so which ones are we going to scratch definitely ? marketing : the banana . banana . project manager : banana remote . industrial designer : banana . user interface : i say this one as well . marketing : yeah , the deluxe . project manager : i think we 're all in agreement about the triple r_ . industrial designer : . project manager : i think triple r_ is cool . user interface : triple r_ ? marketing : the r triple r_ . project manager : and it looks cool when you print it in font , looks pretty cool . user interface : triple r_ it is . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : did you do now ? project manager : just like this just and you just print triple r_ , it looks does n't look bad , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's short , it 's okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so have to write my report now , i guess . um um yeah , so we have everything . we have the product , we have the costs , we have the possibility of everything . marketing : it ca n't work . that will not project manager : okay . i think it 's adjourned . retire to my lair and finish the report . that was a short meeting . but efficient though . industrial designer : mm-hmm . the boss is always the last one to go home . so project manager : probably . see . okay , user interface : project manager : goodbye . marketing : okay . industrial designer : see you in a minute . marketing : damn . i will write that one in a word uh document . industrial designer : okay . project manager : could you guys draw me a picture of the final design to put on the cover of the report ? user interface : yeah , sure . marketing : industrial designer : ca n't we take this one ? otherwise we have to do it all over again . marketing : um user interface : i do n't really know whether we can save it as a picture or no . industrial designer : is it okay if i try ? is that okay with you ? user interface : sure . marketing : yeah , okay , i will ask you when uh i need the information . industrial designer : i 'll put it back in a minute . marketing : so it 's oh . industrial designer : okay , it has been saving something , but where to i do n't know . marketing : uh oh . merge . industrial designer : oh , can i say exp yes , i can . marketing : sucks . industrial designer : export as j_ peg . . okay , can i not put this wherever i wants . my document is the wrong one , huh . marketing : yeah , but user interface : network places . marketing : i do n't know . smart no . industrial designer : . marketing : ma it 's maybe it 's not on the network of uh the rest . user interface : industrial designer : i do n't think so . marketing : that one is . . user interface : i would n't pick that one , no . industrial designer : document and settings . marketing : industrial designer : that 's a pity . that means that we have to gon na draw it again . are you gon na do that ? user interface : sure . industrial designer : okay . that yes . okay . okay . okay . yes , that 's correct . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : no . oh , it 's export . marketing : oh yeah , . industrial designer : okay . marketing : can i see scores ? industrial designer : oh , of course . marketing : uh , one one , two threes , two industrial designer : sorry . marketing : okay , then we 'll overall , two points . yes . user interface : i see you later . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the cost reduction and abandonment of certain features ? </s> project manager : finances , that 's what we have here , what you drew . we have battery power , we have advanced chips and the sam the sensor . the sample sensor and uh for speak recognition anyway . so which you see the which is de o one of the most expensive parts . so well , we have sin one curve , a design . rubber design . and we had a special colour . suppose yellow is a special colour . so just half a euro for you have pushbuttons and an lcd display . you have the total of seventeen euros in production cost , which is higher than the twelve and a half that we are permitted to use . so , easy . what do we scrap . well think i had the best solution that i came up with is just to s take out the speech recognition . user interface : i 'd say that too . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : because the lcd has more support on customer side . there are ninety one percent of uh the people , or something like that . but ninety percent who favour an lcd display , and only sixty percent that favour speech recognition . i think it 's also harder to user interface : uh we do n't really have a extra function with the speech sample , marketing : yeah . user interface : which you ca n't do with a normal remote control , project manager : . so i ju user interface : which people already do . so project manager : i took that out . so and so it 's still stuck with thirteen , so i had to take out the special colour i suppose . and , yeah , i did n't see anything else i could take out . yeah , i could take out the push-buttons , marketing : pushbut project manager : but we need those . so , generally what i came up with , in order to be cou to to have production cost of twelve and a half euros , spe scrap speech recognition industrial designer : huh . marketing : special colour , yeah . project manager : and the separate covers can account for the if people want it , we 'll just then we 'll do it in black . we 'll just deliver it in black , have the it has all the function that it 's supposed to have , and if you want it if you want the custom design , then you can buy the separate covers . user interface : well , project manager : you make it d orange or whatever you want . user interface : i 'd i tend to disagree with you on that , because the trend issue was a big issue when we started designing this . project manager : it was a big issue , but user interface : so ca n't we just basically extend it to thirteen ? project manager : i 'll just go back . uh let 's just let 's see what okay , let 's just see what we no , we we have to be under twelve and a half . marketing : yeah , it project manager : it it 's not uh the project is a no-go if we go over twelve and a half , industrial designer : okay , but there 's another problem . marketing : and the p user interface : okay . industrial designer : but there 's another problem . marketing : what industrial designer : if we take another cover , for instance black , then we also need another button frame , 'cause black and black does n't work obviously . project manager : i think you that 's what you were ass assigned to do really , to to see how b th both those work together . industrial designer : huh . huh . yeah . project manager : so i think yeah , it 's i think it 's y one of the it 's a good way to um to help people uh to make to keep the product trendy too . just keep you just make new covers for the for it , like we agreed before . industrial designer : right . i agree . project manager : and everything that 's left is is the basic function that uh that we want our product to have . because the expensive parts are in either the advanced chip . but we need that for the lcd display . user interface : yeah . we do . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : then again , we have the lcd display , which is also expensive . b yeah , but those go together . and yeah , we could take out the curve . industrial designer : or say let 's lose rubber , take plastic . user interface : we could take out a curve indeed . project manager : could we could take out the curve . is that an option ? marketing : . project manager : for you ? industrial designer : although we are demolishing a little bit the style . marketing : but uh the and user interface : i think the colour is more important than the really the curve , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but project manager : user interface : because if you just end up with an entirely black remote control project manager : i think it 's it it does ruin it , marketing : yeah . the people project manager : but the fact that i t took that decision or t industrial designer : yeah . project manager : took this example actually , not really decision , but the example is because we do offer the um the possibility of adding your own custom covers . so you can change any colour you want . so it 's just you deliver a basic remote control with a possibility to change you into whatever you want . industrial designer : can we then not also uh change the material ? we take plastic for the basic cover project manager : you can take plastic , industrial designer : and project manager : but i d it 's something that 's stuck into my mind is that something that really came forward from the marketing research is that people like the the the the squishy feeling of the spongy feeling of the marketing : spongy , yeah . industrial designer : we can put those to the to the other covers . project manager : and it really makes it also makes it different from the existing remote controls , marketing : yeah . project manager : because they 're all plastic . marketing : and project manager : so which in in turn industrial designer : that 's true . project manager : rubber would increase durability industrial designer : but project manager : because it does n't break . industrial designer : okay . but what do you then suggest we 'd lose ? because we have to lose two things and i guess . project manager : i al like i said , i lost the speech recognition and i lost the special colour , marketing : but project manager : which would make this black a black and grey . industrial designer : okay , and that 's enough ? project manager : yeah , that 's that that that 's enough , because user interface : so black and grey is okay . project manager : i guess those are the basic colours . marketing : but project manager : so oh . user interface : which we can fabricate , project manager : i think those are basic col they want to user interface : okay . marketing : the people want to pay for for it , so why why uh do we have to keep us uh uh um on the twelve and a half ? project manager : to ensure the profit . that that 's th that 's the order . we 're just uh we 're the project team and we got our our orders from the pro from the boss of our company marketing : yeah . project manager : which say we do n't wan na spend more than twelve fifty for this . marketing : but we can take a risk . project manager : but that 's not for our that 's not our decision to take . we have a budget of twelve fifty per product . user interface : no , we basically marketing : okay , yeah . project manager : so user interface : we need to stick to that . project manager : stick that . i do n't think it 's really bad either . i mean if we we have the the backup of or the backup design thing marketing : i hope the people will like it , project manager : to have marketing : but project manager : i think they would do . th i think they do like because yo we you we agree upon that the that the the the cover thing was a nice idea , marketing : project manager : because p you could have all sort of designs while at the same time just manufacturing one product , one basic product which you could turn into any any taste you want . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i think it 's the best solution to make those cu custom covers for the design aspect industrial designer : perhaps we should make m marketing : yeah . project manager : and keep the functionality between of within the th the boundaries of the your f uh your budget . marketing : the first sheet . project manager : so industrial designer : perhaps we should make clear to our customer that we had to do this to stay under the cost . and that 's uh they know that this is an option and that we had to drop the option to stay under the cost , that they know that . project manager : well i do n't think yeah . is it worth is it is it industrial designer : perhaps they decide tha user interface : but they do n't project manager : does it mean anything to the customer ? like , it like , we do n't care we do n't care that you had to industrial designer : of course . perhaps they uh no , but perhaps they think uh okay , the cover is such a nice idea , uh let 's that that then they uh that allow us to make some more costs . project manager : true , industrial designer : we ca we uh we can at least tell them that project manager : but we did we did n't get that . so i think it 's industrial designer : you do n't know that . project manager : it should either be a pack , maybe we sh that should be sold in in the s in stores with with a standard cover or something . user interface : well project manager : but industrial designer : no , i 'm not uh talking about that cost but the one that g has given us the order to design this . we could at least m uh make it like this , like you said , project manager : they could , but uh industrial designer : and then tell them okay , we had to drop this and that , just that you know . it is an still an option , but not for this price . project manager : it 's an option , but yeah , it 's true . so actually uh it 's not that much of an increase , but yeah . we can not contact them . user interface : and if we project manager : it 's just the order that we got . industrial designer : exactly , project manager : so that 's what we got ta go with . industrial designer : but marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's either one fi just just to get it f just to get it through final , it 's either turned into plastic , drop the squishy feel , make it make it more breakable , marketing : yeah . project manager : um or turn it yellow . so it 's uh something we have to decide on . industrial designer : i 'd say lose the curve and the colour project manager : i say lose the curve . oh that 's true , industrial designer : and project manager : we could lose the c i forgot that , yeah , sorry . uh the curve . so user interface : so which curve is that ba project manager : that 's just this one just d this is the banana curve . user interface : that 's basically that curve . project manager : so this would this would be straight . user interface : so we could u still have the comfort . marketing : yeah , that 's better . project manager : no , uh no , that would be a curve inside the thing , i guess . no , would ju then it would just be a straight remote . just like like that . which would , yeah , turn it into something far more ordinary . we could make it yellow then , user interface : i second that . project manager : but you second that , you second that we lose the curve . user interface : no , that it would turn out to be a pretty straight-forward remote control . project manager : okay , yeah . user interface : so that 's not really that marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : so i think it would be a good idea to keep the curve to separate it from the rest of the remote control world , so to speak . so we keep the curve . so the only only solution is either to use the l y lose the yellow or lose the rubber . user interface : i would project manager : and i 'm in favour of keeping the rubber , because it has more more advantages than the colour yellow has . industrial designer : oh . i agree . user interface : yeah . i would say i would agree with you on the colour , because that 's an extra option , an extra service we can deliver for a little bit of more money . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah , um user interface : so we can always do that . project manager : i guess people are willing to pay for that . so i think we can take that option and just with uh with the idea in the back of our head that you can customise your remote control . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i think that would still make it a nice product . okay , we 're final on that . so it 's too bad we ca n't make the whole super thing . but anyways we 're here . um yeah . </s>
<s> what did the project manager think of the speech recognition when discussing abandonment of certain features ? </s> project manager : easy . what do we scrap . well think i had the best solution that i came up with is just to s take out the speech recognition . user interface : i 'd say that too . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : because the lcd has more support on customer side . there are ninety one percent of uh the people , or something like that . but ninety percent who favour an lcd display , and only sixty percent that favour speech recognition . i think it 's also harder to user interface : uh we do n't really have a extra function with the speech sample , marketing : yeah . user interface : which you ca n't do with a normal remote control , project manager : . so i ju user interface : which people already do . so project manager : i took that out . so and so it 's still stuck with thirteen , so i had to take out the special colour i suppose . and , yeah , i did n't see anything else i could take out . yeah , i could take out the push-buttons , marketing : pushbut </s>
<s> summarize the decision of removing the curve when discussing abandonment of certain features . </s> industrial designer : i 'd say lose the curve and the colour project manager : i say lose the curve . oh that 's true , industrial designer : and project manager : we could lose the c i forgot that , yeah , sorry . uh the curve . so user interface : so which curve is that ba project manager : that 's just this one just d this is the banana curve . user interface : that 's basically that curve . project manager : so this would this would be straight . user interface : so we could u still have the comfort . marketing : yeah , that 's better . project manager : no , uh no , that would be a curve inside the thing , i guess . no , would ju then it would just be a straight remote . just like like that . which would , yeah , turn it into something far more ordinary . we could make it yellow then , user interface : i second that . project manager : but you second that , you second that we lose the curve . user interface : no , that it would turn out to be a pretty straight-forward remote control . project manager : okay , yeah . user interface : so that 's not really that marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : so i think it would be a good idea to keep the curve to separate it from the rest of the remote control world , so to speak . so we keep the curve . so the only only solution is either to use the l y lose the yellow or lose the rubber . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the name chosen of the product . </s> project manager : i still have the the total report to finish up . i think we took very little time now , because yeah , we 're in agreement , everything the design is okay . the one thing we missed though , we do n't have a product name . marketing : what project manager : how about you cook a how about you cook up a product name ? user interface : product name . industrial designer : we have n't think above about that . marketing : yeah , name . industrial designer : huh . it 's better than thi i think than a serial number . sony uh t_r_ something uh f means nothing to me . uh project manager : just marketing : or fruit name . project manager : oh , think of a catchy name . i 'll be working on this until the beep until it beeps . so industrial designer : like fruit names . marketing : fruit name or something like that . project manager : what ? fruit ? marketing : the banana remote or something . project manager : you do n't want it to resemble a banana . marketing : i do n't know . yeah , it 's the form of it . project manager : it 's not yellow anyway . user interface : the bana 'cause it 's not yellow anymore . project manager : it 's not yellow anymore . marketing : yeah oh , yeah . project manager : it is curved , but marketing : uh yeah . uh user interface : well , uh i was going for the r_c_ deluxe , but it 's not really a catchy name or anything , it 's more project manager : it 's industrial designer : uh at least it 's not something with numbers . numbers are so meaningless to the people . i mean marketing : yeah . user interface : something with our company name , marketing : that 's true . user interface : can we do anything with that ? industrial designer : . user interface : maybe there 's something on the website which will help us out . marketing : reaction , real reaction . project manager : industrial designer : real reaction . user interface : the reaction deluxe . project manager : real reaction future r_c_ . step into the future of of remote controlling your tv . user interface : is that a name or a c campaign ? marketing : project manager : no that 's a that 's a catchy slogan . user interface : yeah . project manager : control your remote control . user interface : or the the real reactor . industrial designer : real react . project manager : i go for future r_c_ probably . something like it 's short f industrial designer : the real reactor , i do n't find that uh that bad at all . marketing : . project manager : real reactor ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh that that 's user interface : you should write it down as a an option . industrial designer : because our name is real reaction . project manager : that makes me think of different products than a remote control really . marketing : . user interface : project manager : i 'm not sure . real reaction in a real marketing : zapping . the user interface : so that 's one option . project manager : real reactor . did n't notice . industrial designer : i 'm looking for things in the name . so that the first three letters are s the same . r_e_a_ r_e_a_ . user interface : should i write the banana down or project manager : i take f marketing : yeah , sure . project manager : yeah , take a banana . user interface : sure ? marketing : the banana . remote . banana recei r_c_ . industrial designer : the triple r_ . real reaction remotes control . triple r_ . marketing : remote . user interface : well i marketing : r_ three c_ . user interface : uh do you mean it like industrial designer : ? marketing : r_ three c_ . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you mean it like this ? industrial designer : yeah , that marketing : real reaction remote control . r_ three c_ . oh yeah . industrial designer : . . project manager : no , not like that . it should be it should be longer , because it 's not a product name that you f print on a box . industrial designer : i think triple r_ . project manager : just write out triple , like a word triple r_c_ , triple stripe oh . triple dash r_ dash s s c_ . industrial designer : does n't sound ? marketing : yeah , triple r_ . industrial designer : yeah . ah . marketing : triple r_c_ . the triple r_c_ , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : r_ s r_ three c_ . . project manager : r_ dash c_ . user interface : dash c_ ? industrial designer : i think i like it like this more . project manager : dash . triple r_ or triple r_c_ ? user interface : like a c_ right now or a dash in a c_ ? marketing : triple r_ dash . project manager : how about do both ? user interface : project manager : sure if it looks stupid . uh i think that the the r_c_ together takes away the the the image of it 's a triple uh the first the first one looks like it 's a triple remote control , marketing : that project manager : but it 's only a single remote control . and it 's especially on the triple r_ that 's important . the real reaction remote . industrial designer : i would huh . i would lose the c_ marketing : yeah , this yeah . industrial designer : and just name it triple r_ . user interface : is it triple r_c_s ? no . project manager : industrial designer : it sounds like uh thinking about two different things and combining it . marketing : triple remote . industrial designer : i would just say triple r_s triple r_ marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , triple r_ yeah , you can user interface : well , that 's another option . industrial designer : that 's also short , catchy . marketing : it 's okay . project manager : yeah , triple r_ . user interface : okay , so which ones are we going to scratch definitely ? marketing : the banana . banana . project manager : banana remote . industrial designer : banana . user interface : i say this one as well . marketing : yeah , the deluxe . project manager : i think we 're all in agreement about the triple r_ . industrial designer : . project manager : i think triple r_ is cool . user interface : triple r_ ? marketing : the r triple r_ . project manager : and it looks cool when you print it in font , looks pretty cool . user interface : triple r_ it is . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : did you do now ? </s>
<s> what was the advantage of `` triple r '' compared to `` triple rc '' when discussing the name chosen of the product ? </s> marketing : remote . banana recei r_c_ . industrial designer : the triple r_ . real reaction remotes control . triple r_ . marketing : remote . user interface : well i marketing : r_ three c_ . user interface : uh do you mean it like industrial designer : ? marketing : r_ three c_ . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you mean it like this ? industrial designer : yeah , that marketing : real reaction remote control . r_ three c_ . oh yeah . industrial designer : . . project manager : no , not like that . it should be it should be longer , because it 's not a product name that you f print on a box . industrial designer : i think triple r_ . project manager : just write out triple , like a word triple r_c_ , triple stripe oh . triple dash r_ dash s s c_ . industrial designer : does n't sound ? marketing : yeah , triple r_ . industrial designer : yeah . ah . marketing : triple r_c_ . the triple r_c_ , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : r_ s r_ three c_ . . project manager : r_ dash c_ . user interface : dash c_ ? industrial designer : i think i like it like this more . project manager : dash . triple r_ or triple r_c_ ? user interface : like a c_ right now or a dash in a c_ ? marketing : triple r_ dash . project manager : how about do both ? user interface : project manager : sure if it looks stupid . uh i think that the the r_c_ together takes away the the the image of it 's a triple uh the first the first one looks like it 's a triple remote control , marketing : that project manager : but it 's only a single remote control . and it 's especially on the triple r_ that 's important . the real reaction remote . industrial designer : i would huh . i would lose the c_ marketing : yeah , this yeah . industrial designer : and just name it triple r_ . user interface : is it triple r_c_s ? no . project manager : industrial designer : it sounds like uh thinking about two different things and combining it . marketing : triple remote . industrial designer : i would just say triple r_s triple r_ marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , triple r_ yeah , you can user interface : well , that 's another option . industrial designer : that 's also short , catchy . marketing : it 's okay . project manager : yeah , triple r_ . user interface : okay , so which ones are we going to scratch definitely ? marketing : the banana . banana . project manager : banana remote . industrial designer : banana . user interface : i say this one as well . marketing : yeah , the deluxe . project manager : i think we 're all in agreement about the triple r_ . industrial designer : . project manager : i think triple r_ is cool . user interface : triple r_ ? marketing : the r triple r_ . project manager : and it looks cool when you print it in font , looks pretty cool . </s>
<s> summarize the decision of the discussion on the name chosen of the product . </s> user interface : okay , so which ones are we going to scratch definitely ? marketing : the banana . banana . project manager : banana remote . industrial designer : banana . user interface : i say this one as well . marketing : yeah , the deluxe . project manager : i think we 're all in agreement about the triple r_ . industrial designer : . project manager : i think triple r_ is cool . user interface : triple r_ ? marketing : the r triple r_ . project manager : and it looks cool when you print it in font , looks pretty cool . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : marketing : project manager : okay . good afternoon again . user interface : project manager : so we should have our final meeting about the detail designed of detail design of the product of the remote control . um so here is the agenda for today . uh uh just going to go quickly through the minutes of the last last uh meeting then we have a p presentation of prototype of you two , sounds interesting . and we 'll have um presentation of evaluation crit criteria by ou our marketing experts . then we 'll have to go through finance evaluation of the of the cost of the thing and um hopefully uh we should fit the target o tw of twelve point five uh uh euro . okay . so let 's go . uh if i go quickly through the minutes of the last meeting . so we went through th uh w we took this following decisions . no lcd , no speech recognition technology , okay , we went through a b to a banana look and feel for the remote control . we went through the use of wheels and but buttons . and also the use of a basis station for battery ch charging and uh also to um call the to call the mot mote remote control when it is lost . okay . um . good . so guys let this uh wonderful thing . industrial designer : okay so we can go to the slides . project manager : oh yeah . sorry . um . industrial designer : yeah . number three . oh number two sorry . project manager : which is industrial designer : so final design . final design . okay so michael you can go ahead . user interface : yeah so uh following our decision to uh make a yellow well to make a banana project manager : yeah can you show it to the the camera maybe . user interface : remote okay so we actually have a industrial designer : you can pull it out first , maybe . user interface : we 've well first first of all we made a an attractive base station uh with a banana leaf uh look and feel um and uh project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : bana sit the banana sits in there k you know nicely weighted so that it 's not gon na tip over and um this is the remote itself , it 's kind of it 's it 's ergonomic , it fits in the hand uh rather well . we 've got the two uh uh scroll wheels here which you know one on the the left for the uh volume and the one on the right for for the channel and uh underneath we have the uh the turbo button which is in like a nice uh trigger position for you know for pressing quite naturally . project manager : what 's the use uh of the t turbo button already ? user interface : this is when you when you uh are scrolling the uh through the channels you can tell it to to skip th past channels that you quickly rather th project manager : ah yeah yeah an then you stop when you stop it stops . user interface : yeah . well when you stop scrolling the wheel it stops . but normally with uh it will just uh s stay on each station briefly so you can see the the picture . industrial designer : uh project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : and we we do have one more functionality . if you take the banana as such and uh you press the turbo button , so it switch ons the switch ons the tv . user interface : the tv yeah . project manager : which one ? user interface : the s the turbo button . industrial designer : the turbo button . project manager : okay . user interface : so rather than having uh an extra button for um for the on off switch you just use the turbo button . industrial designer : additional button . marketing : what this button for ? user interface : this is a teletext button . so once you press that then you get teletext marketing : okay . user interface : and you can use the the channel selector scroll wheel as uh project manager : to navigate it through th through teletext . user interface : to navigate yeah . marketing : but if you want to go to page seven hundred ? industrial designer : that 's right , that 's right . user interface : yeah . project manager : with the wheel it 's easy . marketing : how man user interface : well then you can you you have like a little uh number selection thing , you press the the the teletext button uh to move between uh the fields and then you can just scroll the number back and forth so you have s you go you scroll to seven and then zero zero and then you can uh marketing : i do n't understand it . can you repeat it ? user interface : well you can you can press press the teletext button industrial designer : user interface : and then you then you can you can f industrial designer : so then then both the scroll buttons they are for teletext browsing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and you can tele marketing : ah okay okay . okay . okay okay . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : mm uh industrial designer : once you press the teletext button then the scroll buttons they are more for teletext , they are no more for channel or vol volume . marketing : okay . i see . i see . okay . okay . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and this is the uh the infrared uh port . industrial designer : that 's right . user interface : also the top of the banana . project manager : excellent . user interface : so . and then we have industrial designer : yeah . user interface : in the uh in the base station we have the the button at the front for uh for calling the uh the banana . project manager : calling . excellent . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and the the leaves plays the roles of of antennas ? user interface : actually they do . that 's that 's yeah that 's uh that 's form and function in the one in the one uh object . industrial designer : yeah . so it always means , whatever the rays goes by they they get reflected and then you are having a better coverage . user interface : industrial designer : it 's like antennas . user interface : yeah . so . but yeah that 's um that 's just like that 's an attractive um base station . project manager : great . user interface : so . project manager : so , what else ? user interface : okay . industrial designer : and for the power source we are having solar cells and rechargeable batteries and this and uh the basis station is going to have the input from the mm power line for for charging the batteries . marketing : is it really weight ? is it light or industrial designer : it is very light . project manager : yeah , they 're light . user interface : it 's it 's uh it 's about the weight of a banana . marketing : okay . project manager : marketing : okay . user interface : you know , to give you the correct look and feel . industrial designer : yeah . and we have put these different colours so that people do n't mistake them mistake it as a banana . user interface : industrial designer : otherwise it 's you know a child comes and so marketing : okay . yeah yeah yeah , i see . i under i understand . user interface : i think a child would try to eat it anyway , so maybe we should industrial designer : yeah . user interface : consider that . maybe health and safety aspects . project manager : ah yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . oh we did n't think of that yet . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so for the power source , apparently you still you you want to use both solar cells and batteries . industrial designer : oh yeah that 's right . project manager : uh you mean okay . so user interface : i do n't really know if the solar cells are actually necessary any more if you have a recharging base station . project manager : yeah , where are going to where are you are you going to place them ? industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm . it 'll it 'll be always at top somewhere at there . user interface : if i was gon na place them i 'd put them on the on the top here since that 's like uh the black bit project manager : you have enough surface ? you user interface : but yeah i do n't i really do n't think it 's necessary to have the solar cells anymore . industrial designer : yeah because now we are having rechargeable batteries project manager : okay . industrial designer : so that that is . project manager : what will be the autonomy ? roughly ? user interface : the what sorry ? project manager : the autonomy . autonomy . user interface : what do you mean ? project manager : uh i mean how long does i how how how long can it be held off a station ? marketing : how long the how long the bit the batteries long . user interface : ah . ah . a long time . project manager : yeah . a long user interface : no no no , industrial designer : eight to ten eight to ten hours . marketing : user interface : it can it should be weeks . industrial designer : n most no most of the time it 's not being used . project manager : yeah , so it 's user interface : yeah but y people do n't like to put it back in the base station all the time people leave wan na leave it on the couch so industrial designer : so when when you are making it on project manager : it 's used only when you industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . no eight or eight or ten hours of working . user interface : ah , okay . industrial designer : if you are just leaving like that it 'll be much longer . user interface : okay . project manager : yeah . f weeks . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . that 's right . project manager : right . next slide ? industrial designer : yeah . and we are having the speakers regular chip for control . pricing is was a factor so that 's why we have gone for a regular chip only not the advanced chip . and uh that 's it . project manager : okay . okay . those really sounds very good . industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : nothing else to add ? user interface : it seems to be falling over . marketing : i l yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : i like i like it . maybe the the thing that convince me the less is the the multifunctional buttons . looks a bit industrial designer : you want to have more functional buttons ? marketing : looks a bit puzzled uh i dunno how to say that . industrial designer : you are not convinced . marketing : you the the b the buttons change h h their function depending if y it 's teletext or not industrial designer : not not many , we we want to keep it simple . so that this button fo is for teletext which is usually also the case , that usually there is a teletext button and once you press that , the channel buttons , they baco become the scrolling buttons . marketing : and the volume button will will become industrial designer : it 's up to you , means . project manager : well in fact b both will be could be useful , navigating through teletext . industrial designer : now that means let 's say this this can move the the larger digits and this can move the smaller digits . user interface : or can move between positions in the in the number . industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : yeah . marketing : and what about people who want to use digits ? butto real buttons ? industrial designer : yeah . so there was there was a constraint that the surface area which we have on this banana on one side because of the shape . marketing : industrial designer : so we are targeting a segment which is which is just very trendy kind of thing , they they do n't care about the buttons any more . and anyway marketing : okay . because have you thought about configuration and all this kind of uh stuff ? user interface : it 's all automatic . marketing : it 's all automatic . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay . okay yeah it 's fine . project manager : very good uh yeah marketing : w we are living in a wonderful world . project manager : you th yeah . user interface : uh . industrial designer : project manager : bananas everywhere . industrial designer : project manager : okay , so marketing : automatically configure . project manager : marketing : project manager : so we have to go through now evaluations . industrial designer : evalua yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so your slides are ready ? uh you 're four i think . marketing : yeah . project manager : so this is one , which one is this one ? marketing : yeah . project manager : marketing : okay . i i const i constructed a a list of criteria based on the on the general user requirements . and each criteria is will be evaluated it 's uh logical criteria so we must users must say i if it 's true or is or if it 's false in a in a scale ranging from zero to seven . industrial designer : why this strange factor of seven ? marketing : because i i 'm sorry . sorry . industrial designer : usually i have seen that scales are from one to ten . marketing : ah yeah . it 's from sorry , it 's from one to seven . it 's from from one to seven sorry . because it should be an even it should be an even uh scale , industrial designer : okay . project manager : num number industrial designer : okay . mm-hmm . marketing : and five is too short and nine is too long . industrial designer : okay . marketing : i 'm a i i 'm industrial designer : okay fine , got the idea . project manager : so to have in order to have enough granularity marketing : sorry ? project manager : it 's in order to have enough granularity in the evaluation . marketing : yeah yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : the variance is mi it 's is minimal . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay , okay , great . marketing : i 'm um answering your question . industrial designer : okay . yeah yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : go ahead . marketing : and that 's the criteria i i found more useful . i think i sh i i could write the criteria in the on the whiteboard ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . sure . marketing : and we all four could range industrial designer : okay . yeah yeah . yeah . marketing : could evaluate the project manager : okay . industrial designer : so you can say fancy , handy . handy . marketing : okay let 's let 's evaluate if it 's fancy or industrial designer : yeah , it 's fancy , according to me . marketing : seven but user interface : project manager : yeah , six . industrial designer : project manager : s seven . industrial designer : seven . seven by me . marketing : i would say seven . industrial designer : okay . marketing : it 's quite fancy . industrial designer : so you can add seven plus six plus seven plus user interface : project manager : no , wait . user interface : yeah uh five . project manager : what do you say seven ? five ? industrial designer : five . user interface : five , maybe maybe maybe six it 's it 's i guess it 's project manager : okay , six point five . user interface : yeah . project manager : handy ? user interface : industrial designer : again i 'll give seven . project manager : seven . user interface : i 'd give it a six like i 'd i think it 's probably more handy than my current remote , 'cause of the scroll wheels but maybe loses the point for not having you know the extra buttons when you reall if you do need them for some reason but you know you can always use your other remote . project manager : so seven , seven , industrial designer : seven for me . user interface : yeah . project manager : six point five . functional . user interface : industrial designer : i 'll give five . project manager : four . marketing : i would say project manager : user interface : well it depends when you say functional , do you mean it does what we want it to do , or d does what it does , you know , can it make you coffee ? marketing : everything ar project manager : uh for a remote control , does he have all the user interface : you know . marketing : mm everything user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : you could expect . marketing : it 's compared to the all industrial designer : that 's right . marketing : remote controls . user interface : that 's before industrial designer : that 's right . the standards . what is available in the market off the shelf . user interface : yeah . i have to say four . marketing : actually i do n't know what are the r the real specification of a of a universal remote contro user interface : well it 's not a universal remote . remember we 're focus we 're supposed to focus just on tvs . industrial designer : we marketing : ah it 's not an univer but it 's for all kind of tvs ? project manager : yeah . user interface : well all tvs but only t_ only tvs i guess . project manager : so it 's universal but for tvs . so s uh four ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : five . project manager : five ? user interface : four . project manager : four . marketing : four . four . industrial designer : so four point two ? user interface : just four . project manager : four . industrial designer : four . user interface : obviously there are some outliers so marketing : so four ? project manager : okay cool ? cool device . industrial designer : marketing : industrial designer : there i 'll give it seven . project manager : marketing : it means cool features , like new features actually . industrial designer : that 's right . user interface : which industrial designer : for a tv the most important feature which i felt was the locator which is a cool feature . and then the scroll buttons are again cool features . we do n't have lcd for it but that we decided we do n't want to have . project manager : yeah . seven . marketing : i would say five . user interface : i 'll say five . industrial designer : mm-hmm . seven . project manager : plus six , i say i said seven . user interface : yeah . project manager : so it 's six . user interface : s yeah . marketing : you said seven ? project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause it 's five five seven seven so industrial designer : okay . user interface : uh , okay , definitely easy to use . industrial designer : definitely seven . user interface : seven . project manager : seven . seven . and you ? outl you are not lik outlier . marketing : five . user interface : project manager : seven industrial designer : project manager : okay okay okay okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : sorry , i have them user interface : alright , now here 's the sixty million dollar question , project manager : user interface : well , twenty five twenty five euro question . project manager : of course i 'll buy the banana . user interface : what do you what do you guys reckon ? marketing : of cour of course the most difficult question for the end . project manager : well industrial designer : i 'll say five . i 'll say five . project manager : twenty five euros . cheap . industrial designer : marketing : i find it quite cheap actually . user interface : marketing : i dunno . if i i it depends , if you live in in switzerland or you live in project manager : yeah , so the target price is for all europe , or only for rich countries ? it 's more targeting u_k_ or marketing : i do n't know . wha the initial specifications were for the whole all europe or user interface : uh project manager : so this is selling costs , not production costs . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah this is the the initial specifications . project manager : yeah yeah sure . um five . marketing : i would say six . it 's quite cheap actually . user interface : i 'd say two . project manager : aw , should be nice in your user interface : i do n't want a banana on my living room table , a banana remote . industrial designer : no but it 's really handy actually if you see . user interface : it is handy , it 's handy , but it it 's terrible . industrial designer : it 's it 's so handy . and then project manager : it 's kitsch . industrial designer : anyb anybody who comes here anybody who comes to your home he 'll at least ask once what is this . user interface : yeah . yeah , but it 's not a positive thing . industrial designer : it 's a very positive thing if you see like that . user interface : well , you know , it 's it 's handy , it 's ergonomic , but it 's a banana . project manager : well , do n't forget well , do n't for do n't forget who we 're targeting also who are f f who are wh industrial designer : youngsters . project manager : yeah , youngst youngst user interface : yeah but it says i , i would buy this , so . marketing : actually maybe project manager : no well yeah i if you would be young . marketing : yeah project manager : not telling that you are young . li li like a teenager for instance . user interface : no , it 's i . i would buy industrial designer : project manager : okay you 're you 're crazy teenager and you like fun things . industrial designer : you want to flaunt . project manager : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : you with your girlfriend or something . project manager : yeah , you want to show the beautiful banana you have . industrial designer : or might be it does some other kind of thing but user interface : still i i 'd say two . i do n't think i at any stage in my life i would want a banana remote control , really . industrial designer : uh yeah , crazy . project manager : okay so you s you give user interface : i can say , maybe there is a market for it , i dunno . project manager : oh yeah yeah i know i know . industrial designer : project manager : so you say two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i say five . project manager : f i d i say five . you say ? marketing : i change the question . project manager : so what 's the new question ? industrial designer : and you have saved it ? marketing : so yeah upload the industrial designer : you 'll have to reload . project manager : uh yeah , i think so . user interface : okay , so , it depends if uh marketing : yeah it 's two different situations . if you really need an universal remote control or if you would change your remote control for a n for a new one . project manager : yeah that 's two different question . user interface : if i had t if i had to spend twenty five euro , if that was like my limit , maybe i would buy it . because the other twenty five euro remote controls are probably gon na look project manager : ugly . user interface : worse than a banana . industrial designer : they 're not going to be as and they they might not be a as easy as this marketing : user interface : and it yeah this is gon na f you know handy to use . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : so ? what now ? what range ? project manager : i stick to five . user interface : although it still has it still has the word of course at the beginning industrial designer : i go slightly up . six . user interface : so i dunno . um . project manager : w we have six , five user interface : i 'd give it i 'd give it a project manager : three user interface : i give it a four now . industrial designer : marketing : six ? six ? project manager : so we are six , five , four industrial designer : six , five , four . marketing : six , so it 's uh five point five , or less . project manager : yeah . so industrial designer : okay . project manager : so and last question , will i change my rem change my remote control from mando banana . um , zero . no uh we ca n't . marketing : project manager : so one . user interface : marketing : actually yeah , i we project manager : well if . user interface : yeah . project manager : no uh let 's say i 'll put two . user interface : i 'd say three , i mean my remote control is kinda at home is pretty terrible . if it was change my remote control of my d_v_d_ player for a mando banana then i would be more inclined to project manager : it 's for the tv . user interface : but uh 'cause it 's really bad but uh marketing : user interface : i 'd say a three . industrial designer : i 'll still give it five . yeah . marketing : five ? project manager : two three five two three fi and two . marketing : you are romantic , really . industrial designer : so it 's somewhere three point five i think . marketing : i would say two . project manager : so it 's r yeah , three point five . marketing : who is the outlier ? user interface : marketing : wh wh you said five ? project manager : no no you say five , he is the outlier . industrial designer : no i said five . project manager : okay just just do a sum . marketing : i do n't know if it 's a user interface : it 's not very promising but you know we 're not young trendsetters . marketing : no because there are more yeah , we should n't sum like that . project manager : well maybe we should we should uh have a look globally glob marketing : because the the last two questions is much more important than the rest actually . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : otherwise we would n't we will not sell . user interface : is there some some formula you 're using that says you have to sum them up ? marketing : uh no i did n't anything . user interface : well just leave it at that then . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : oops . project manager : so maybe maybe w we can we should stick to general feeling . we can had uh have a out of these numbers , which which is that well we should go for it . marketing : yeah , the uh yeah . project manager : problem with connectors ? marketing : do you want me to sum industrial designer : yeah it 's it 's funny . marketing : o i think it 's not user interface : i think it it kind of you just lose information if you sum it , so . project manager : okay . so let 's move uh let 's move on . industrial designer : yeah , sure . project manager : okay , now now we have to mm to estimate uh the cost okay . so i prepare an excel sh uh an excel sheet . um well we are going to calculate the production costs . we should we should be below twelve point five . so i already uh put some pu some numbers here , okay . we are going to go through so this is the number the mm number of components we need for this thing . so it appears that there were things that we did n't thought about . uh and also things that i uh i d i forget to uh to put like solar cells . user interface : well we decided against the solar cells so industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : oh yeah finally we say no . industrial designer : solar cells , yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah , we said no to that . project manager : okay so let 's let 's go let 's go let go through all the lines . so hand dynamo . this something we did n't thought about . but user interface : you mean , charging it by shaking the banana . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think rechargeable batteries will take care of the power thing . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay so we we stick to battery , one . industrial designer : to bring the cost yeah . project manager : no kinetic also . i do n't i do n't see the difference between kinetic and dynamo . user interface : well maybe dynamo is like you have to actually project manager : ah you have to ah okay i see so kinetic is really uh shaking the banana . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : crazy . okay . so those banana is falling . let 's go ahead . so we we st only have one for battery . uh then for electronics um so i did n't put anything for the . industrial designer : so we have the regular chip on the print , which is one . project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and that 's it . project manager : okay . no so we hin industrial designer : and we have sample speaker . project manager : yeah so one . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . the cost of that is very high . project manager : ooh ye ye ye the cost is increasing . so we are user interface : well actually that that no that sample speaker is not we we 're not using that , we 're just using the the very beep simple beep , project manager : the beep . user interface : that s that sample thing is like the voice recording and everything . industrial designer : uh-huh . project manager : that 's what industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : okay so i 'll remove it . user interface : so yeah . i say that yeah . project manager : so do n't we need a industrial designer : and we have sev project manager : oh there is no listing for r radio frequency thing . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so industrial designer : so we we 'll put some extras , if there is something . project manager : yeah maybe . we 'll see later . okay so in for the case um i put single curved . industrial designer : okay . to reduce the cost , it 's okay . user interface : well , wait a second , project manager : because we have two things . user interface : no , it 's it 's double curved , it 's got a c , it 's uh industrial designer : oh it 's got all the directions so do n't worry . user interface : well d yeah it 's monotonic but marketing : industrial designer : it 's got a direction . user interface : it 's got but if you hold it if you hold it that way that 's two curved , one on this side , one on that side , but they 're opposite sides . project manager : well . what a what i if i put one here . user interface : this is actually i mean this probably marketing : actually what 's the differen user interface : this probably actually costs more than three project manager : yeah so let 's put one here in the then instead of single user interface : if you industrial designer : okay . okay . project manager : oka all right . user interface : yeah . project manager : so we stick to plastic , it cost nothing . industrial designer : yeah . that 's right . user interface : well no did n't we say we wanted to do a rubber project manager : no , it 's too no . user interface : if you drop it ? marketing : too expensive . project manager : it 's too expensive . we 're already at eleven . user interface : well when okay . well we we 'll come back we 'll come back and see if we can fit it in . project manager : okay so i put rubber one . okay so special colour , yellow . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh for the interface we have industrial designer : we do n't have any push buttons . user interface : no , we have two push buttons . project manager : we have three . industrial designer : no that is a scroll wheel itself , it 'll be put in that . project manager : no no . we have two scroll , and we have three push buttons . industrial designer : ah okay , okay . okay , okay . project manager : and user interface : okay it 's gon na have to be plastic . marketing : actually whe whe when you wrote regular chip you should put two , because there is another chip here . project manager : no it 's no chip . this is just radio frequency . th this is no chip . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah but industrial designer : no . there 's no chip there . marketing : you need industrial designer : it just emits the signal . project manager : it 's just industrial designer : and the receiver accepts it and that 's it . project manager : yeah . marketing : fo i it does nothing actually ? project manager : no . just only . industrial designer : just se sends the signal , that 's it . user interface : it 's a recharger thing and uh project manager : okay w we did n't think a thought about uh integrated scroll wheel push buttons . user interface : well i actually did um think about it myself but i thought you know because you could potentially you know you could be pushing it down as you scroll it for a instead of a turbo button project manager : yeah , user interface : but you know the turbo button does add that extra class . project manager : so yeah . user interface : you know . so i mean if we 're if we 're over budget then maybe we could we could rethink that . project manager : okay . so no lcd , so for we have no button supplements , right ? industrial designer : yep . no . project manager : uh well in fact could we could not we consider this button as a button supplement because oh no , these are these are for colours , co and special forms , special colours and special materials . user interface : yeah . no we 're not project manager : so user interface : we do n't need anything special for the buttons . project manager : okay so we are over budget . industrial designer : yeah . so first thing which we should take care of is , user interface : make it plastic instead of rubber . industrial designer : instead of rubber , let it be plastic . project manager : yeah . user interface : and then we 're basically o on budget except for you know ten cents . industrial designer : and uh that much money will be required for the base station , which is not there . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so mayb in fact n we have to put two here because it cost nothing . user interface : yeah well pl the base station is made out of m many units of plastic . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : industrial designer : so might be ninety centimes for the the remaining things which the cord and everything which 'll go project manager : exactly exactly so we have margin for that stuff . user interface : does that include charging circuitry and everything ? industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : yeah maybe . okay good . wha industrial designer : yeah . project manager : excellent . user interface : so what do we do with the extra profits ? project manager : um we 'll invest in r_ and d_ . user interface : okay . marketing : user interface : the next fruit . project manager : yeah . so well we 're under the the the cost . so we can go to through to project evaluation . marketing : okay so now we have a product which nobody would would buy . would yeah , would buy . project manager : sorry ? user interface : no we have a product which none of us would buy . marketing : yeah because th th the evaluation project project manager : which is different . which is different . none of us will buy it . user interface : no it 's people in in in milan and uh in paris that are gon na buy it . marketing : ah would buy , yeah . user interface : we 're n marketing : massively , yeah . user interface : yeah . we 're not in milan or paris . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . okay . uh you have been in milan a couple of times , so . project manager : this is a battery . user interface : actually there were a lot of industrial designer : marketing : and you said the lowest . user interface : project manager : this is what we which you can mm industrial designer : s detachable battery . project manager : it did yeah . user interface : that 's 'cause i 'm sick of milan . marketing : yeah , for the batteries project manager : extra battery , yeah . industrial designer : user interface : okay so um project process . project manager : exac well in fact i i did not know i did n't know really what to say here . marketing : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : if uh if you have any ideas of what we can we can say . so i do n't i do n't i do n't understand what what they mean by satisfaction um and for and for example . user interface : project manager : should it be more like um like a status of of the these meetings in fact . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah well in fact uh we we use a little bit the white board and the digital pen , not that much . user interface : i dunno i think we had a fair bit of creativity . project manager : oh yeah it 's really creative . user interface : and uh but i think one thing we m missed out of this whole process was a um like a focus group with the actual people we 're targeting . industrial designer : user interface : we needed some of these kind of young trendsetters to come in and play with the banana and you know see if they project manager : yeah . industrial designer : they like that . user interface : see if they like it . project manager : yeah maybe we should go through , yeah an uh evaluation . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : because yeah the evaluation for us is is kind of pointless . industrial designer : biased . project manager : so maybe you should we should do a kinda evaluation in the streets like asking to young peoples well , do you like to have a banana as a remote control . user interface : yeah . because it it would also be interesting to uh you to know find out if we have a market in really young children as well , to see you know how to how to market this thing . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : 'cause you know if well i mean maybe you do n't wan na give all your kids their own remote because they 'll be changing the channel all the time but you know maybe in some households where there is you know a tv for each kid , then you know , banana remote control could be fun for them as well . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : might have to draw a face on it . so but i think that 's something we need to to work on next time is really finding out more about the target market . project manager : yep . any any new ideas we could uh we could investigate next time ? dunno , oranges ? industrial designer : yeah . the cost of the thing can be made more than might be . because i think it 's just the optimal , what we have done for the cost which we are looking forward to . user interface : yeah . i think there are ways we could maybe simplify the industrial designer : interface . user interface : well just the the the circuit board that we 're using inside , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i 'm not sure really how complicated our um industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : our needs are . i mean all we have is two push buttons and two scrollers , do we really need an integrated circuit to you know to process that . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : so more general remote control instead of just focusing on uh on tv . industrial designer : that 's right . marketing : the complexity should n't be much higher . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : for you said if it good for d_v_d_ then i would user interface : and also fo you know for mood lighting and and stuff , that would be rather cool . i think that 's actually something that should be in version two , is the ability to you know to control things other than the tv industrial designer : integrate . user interface : and not just electronic equipment but you know the whole environment of the room . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . very good . so industrial designer : so what else ? project manager : well done . i think we we can go industrial designer : okay . home ? project manager : home . industrial designer : happily satisfied . marketing : project manager : yeah . maybe maybe we can hassle the the production department to to make a a real prototype that we can use at home to to evaluate . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay so thanks very much . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about the presentation on the prototype . </s> project manager : so we should have our final meeting about the detail designed of detail design of the product of the remote control . um so here is the agenda for today . uh uh just going to go quickly through the minutes of the last last uh meeting then we have a p presentation of prototype of you two , sounds interesting . and we 'll have um presentation of evaluation crit criteria by ou our marketing experts . then we 'll have to go through finance evaluation of the of the cost of the thing and um hopefully uh we should fit the target o tw of twelve point five uh uh euro . okay . so let 's go . uh if i go quickly through the minutes of the last meeting . so we went through th uh w we took this following decisions . no lcd , no speech recognition technology , okay , we went through a b to a banana look and feel for the remote control . we went through the use of wheels and but buttons . and also the use of a basis station for battery ch charging and uh also to um call the to call the mot mote remote control when it is lost . okay . um . good . so guys let this uh wonderful thing . industrial designer : okay so we can go to the slides . project manager : oh yeah . sorry . um . industrial designer : yeah . number three . oh number two sorry . project manager : which is industrial designer : so final design . final design . okay so michael you can go ahead . user interface : yeah so uh following our decision to uh make a yellow well to make a banana project manager : yeah can you show it to the the camera maybe . user interface : remote okay so we actually have a industrial designer : you can pull it out first , maybe . user interface : we 've well first first of all we made a an attractive base station uh with a banana leaf uh look and feel um and uh project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : bana sit the banana sits in there k you know nicely weighted so that it 's not gon na tip over and um this is the remote itself , it 's kind of it 's it 's ergonomic , it fits in the hand uh rather well . we 've got the two uh uh scroll wheels here which you know one on the the left for the uh volume and the one on the right for for the channel and uh underneath we have the uh the turbo button which is in like a nice uh trigger position for you know for pressing quite naturally . project manager : what 's the use uh of the t turbo button already ? user interface : this is when you when you uh are scrolling the uh through the channels you can tell it to to skip th past channels that you quickly rather th project manager : ah yeah yeah an then you stop when you stop it stops . user interface : yeah . well when you stop scrolling the wheel it stops . but normally with uh it will just uh s stay on each station briefly so you can see the the picture . industrial designer : uh project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : and we we do have one more functionality . if you take the banana as such and uh you press the turbo button , so it switch ons the switch ons the tv . user interface : the tv yeah . project manager : which one ? user interface : the s the turbo button . industrial designer : the turbo button . project manager : okay . user interface : so rather than having uh an extra button for um for the on off switch you just use the turbo button . industrial designer : additional button . marketing : what this button for ? user interface : this is a teletext button . so once you press that then you get teletext marketing : okay . user interface : and you can use the the channel selector scroll wheel as uh project manager : to navigate it through th through teletext . user interface : to navigate yeah . marketing : but if you want to go to page seven hundred ? industrial designer : that 's right , that 's right . user interface : yeah . project manager : with the wheel it 's easy . marketing : how man user interface : well then you can you you have like a little uh number selection thing , you press the the the teletext button uh to move between uh the fields and then you can just scroll the number back and forth so you have s you go you scroll to seven and then zero zero and then you can uh marketing : i do n't understand it . can you repeat it ? user interface : well you can you can press press the teletext button industrial designer : user interface : and then you then you can you can f industrial designer : so then then both the scroll buttons they are for teletext browsing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and you can tele marketing : ah okay okay . okay . okay okay . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : mm uh industrial designer : once you press the teletext button then the scroll buttons they are more for teletext , they are no more for channel or vol volume . marketing : okay . i see . i see . okay . okay . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and this is the uh the infrared uh port . industrial designer : that 's right . user interface : also the top of the banana . project manager : excellent . user interface : so . and then we have industrial designer : yeah . user interface : in the uh in the base station we have the the button at the front for uh for calling the uh the banana . project manager : calling . excellent . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and the the leaves plays the roles of of antennas ? user interface : actually they do . that 's that 's yeah that 's uh that 's form and function in the one in the one uh object . industrial designer : yeah . so it always means , whatever the rays goes by they they get reflected and then you are having a better coverage . user interface : industrial designer : it 's like antennas . user interface : yeah . so . but yeah that 's um that 's just like that 's an attractive um base station . project manager : great . user interface : so . project manager : so , what else ? user interface : okay . industrial designer : and for the power source we are having solar cells and rechargeable batteries and this and uh the basis station is going to have the input from the mm power line for for charging the batteries . marketing : is it really weight ? is it light or industrial designer : it is very light . project manager : yeah , they 're light . user interface : it 's it 's uh it 's about the weight of a banana . marketing : okay . project manager : marketing : okay . user interface : you know , to give you the correct look and feel . industrial designer : yeah . and we have put these different colours so that people do n't mistake them mistake it as a banana . user interface : industrial designer : otherwise it 's you know a child comes and so marketing : okay . yeah yeah yeah , i see . i under i understand . user interface : i think a child would try to eat it anyway , so maybe we should industrial designer : yeah . user interface : consider that . maybe health and safety aspects . project manager : ah yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . oh we did n't think of that yet . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so for the power source , apparently you still you you want to use both solar cells and batteries . industrial designer : oh yeah that 's right . project manager : uh you mean okay . so user interface : i do n't really know if the solar cells are actually necessary any more if you have a recharging base station . project manager : yeah , where are going to where are you are you going to place them ? industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm . it 'll it 'll be always at top somewhere at there . user interface : if i was gon na place them i 'd put them on the on the top here since that 's like uh the black bit project manager : you have enough surface ? you user interface : but yeah i do n't i really do n't think it 's necessary to have the solar cells anymore . industrial designer : yeah because now we are having rechargeable batteries project manager : okay . industrial designer : so that that is . project manager : what will be the autonomy ? roughly ? user interface : the what sorry ? project manager : the autonomy . autonomy . user interface : what do you mean ? project manager : uh i mean how long does i how how how long can it be held off a station ? marketing : how long the how long the bit the batteries long . user interface : ah . ah . a long time . project manager : yeah . a long user interface : no no no , industrial designer : eight to ten eight to ten hours . marketing : user interface : it can it should be weeks . industrial designer : n most no most of the time it 's not being used . project manager : yeah , so it 's user interface : yeah but y people do n't like to put it back in the base station all the time people leave wan na leave it on the couch so industrial designer : so when when you are making it on project manager : it 's used only when you industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . no eight or eight or ten hours of working . user interface : ah , okay . industrial designer : if you are just leaving like that it 'll be much longer . user interface : okay . project manager : yeah . f weeks . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . that 's right . project manager : right . next slide ? industrial designer : yeah . and we are having the speakers regular chip for control . pricing is was a factor so that 's why we have gone for a regular chip only not the advanced chip . and uh that 's it . project manager : okay . okay . those really sounds very good . industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : nothing else to add ? user interface : it seems to be falling over . marketing : i l yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : i like i like it . maybe the the thing that convince me the less is the the multifunctional buttons . looks a bit industrial designer : you want to have more functional buttons ? marketing : looks a bit puzzled uh i dunno how to say that . industrial designer : you are not convinced . marketing : you the the b the buttons change h h their function depending if y it 's teletext or not industrial designer : not not many , we we want to keep it simple . so that this button fo is for teletext which is usually also the case , that usually there is a teletext button and once you press that , the channel buttons , they baco become the scrolling buttons . marketing : and the volume button will will become industrial designer : it 's up to you , means . project manager : well in fact b both will be could be useful , navigating through teletext . industrial designer : now that means let 's say this this can move the the larger digits and this can move the smaller digits . user interface : or can move between positions in the in the number . industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : yeah . marketing : and what about people who want to use digits ? butto real buttons ? industrial designer : yeah . so there was there was a constraint that the surface area which we have on this banana on one side because of the shape . marketing : industrial designer : so we are targeting a segment which is which is just very trendy kind of thing , they they do n't care about the buttons any more . and anyway marketing : okay . because have you thought about configuration and all this kind of uh stuff ? user interface : it 's all automatic . marketing : it 's all automatic . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay . okay yeah it 's fine . project manager : very good uh yeah marketing : w we are living in a wonderful world . project manager : you th yeah . user interface : uh . industrial designer : project manager : bananas everywhere . industrial designer : project manager : okay , so marketing : automatically configure . project manager : </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about the evaluation criteria . </s> project manager : so we have to go through now evaluations . industrial designer : evalua yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so your slides are ready ? uh you 're four i think . marketing : yeah . project manager : so this is one , which one is this one ? marketing : yeah . project manager : marketing : okay . i i const i constructed a a list of criteria based on the on the general user requirements . and each criteria is will be evaluated it 's uh logical criteria so we must users must say i if it 's true or is or if it 's false in a in a scale ranging from zero to seven . industrial designer : why this strange factor of seven ? marketing : because i i 'm sorry . sorry . industrial designer : usually i have seen that scales are from one to ten . marketing : ah yeah . it 's from sorry , it 's from one to seven . it 's from from one to seven sorry . because it should be an even it should be an even uh scale , industrial designer : okay . project manager : num number industrial designer : okay . mm-hmm . marketing : and five is too short and nine is too long . industrial designer : okay . marketing : i 'm a i i 'm industrial designer : okay fine , got the idea . project manager : so to have in order to have enough granularity marketing : sorry ? project manager : it 's in order to have enough granularity in the evaluation . marketing : yeah yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : the variance is mi it 's is minimal . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay , okay , great . marketing : i 'm um answering your question . industrial designer : okay . yeah yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : go ahead . marketing : and that 's the criteria i i found more useful . i think i sh i i could write the criteria in the on the whiteboard ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . sure . marketing : and we all four could range industrial designer : okay . yeah yeah . yeah . marketing : could evaluate the project manager : okay . industrial designer : so you can say fancy , handy . handy . marketing : okay let 's let 's evaluate if it 's fancy or industrial designer : yeah , it 's fancy , according to me . marketing : seven but user interface : project manager : yeah , six . industrial designer : project manager : s seven . industrial designer : seven . seven by me . marketing : i would say seven . industrial designer : okay . marketing : it 's quite fancy . industrial designer : so you can add seven plus six plus seven plus user interface : project manager : no , wait . user interface : yeah uh five . project manager : what do you say seven ? five ? industrial designer : five . user interface : five , maybe maybe maybe six it 's it 's i guess it 's project manager : okay , six point five . user interface : yeah . project manager : handy ? user interface : industrial designer : again i 'll give seven . project manager : seven . user interface : i 'd give it a six like i 'd i think it 's probably more handy than my current remote , 'cause of the scroll wheels but maybe loses the point for not having you know the extra buttons when you reall if you do need them for some reason but you know you can always use your other remote . project manager : so seven , seven , industrial designer : seven for me . user interface : yeah . project manager : six point five . functional . user interface : industrial designer : i 'll give five . project manager : four . marketing : i would say project manager : user interface : well it depends when you say functional , do you mean it does what we want it to do , or d does what it does , you know , can it make you coffee ? marketing : everything ar project manager : uh for a remote control , does he have all the user interface : you know . marketing : mm everything user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : you could expect . marketing : it 's compared to the all industrial designer : that 's right . marketing : remote controls . user interface : that 's before industrial designer : that 's right . the standards . what is available in the market off the shelf . user interface : yeah . i have to say four . marketing : actually i do n't know what are the r the real specification of a of a universal remote contro user interface : well it 's not a universal remote . remember we 're focus we 're supposed to focus just on tvs . industrial designer : we marketing : ah it 's not an univer but it 's for all kind of tvs ? project manager : yeah . user interface : well all tvs but only t_ only tvs i guess . project manager : so it 's universal but for tvs . so s uh four ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : five . project manager : five ? user interface : four . project manager : four . marketing : four . four . industrial designer : so four point two ? user interface : just four . project manager : four . industrial designer : four . user interface : obviously there are some outliers so marketing : so four ? project manager : okay cool ? cool device . industrial designer : marketing : industrial designer : there i 'll give it seven . project manager : marketing : it means cool features , like new features actually . industrial designer : that 's right . user interface : which industrial designer : for a tv the most important feature which i felt was the locator which is a cool feature . and then the scroll buttons are again cool features . we do n't have lcd for it but that we decided we do n't want to have . project manager : yeah . seven . marketing : i would say five . user interface : i 'll say five . industrial designer : mm-hmm . seven . project manager : plus six , i say i said seven . user interface : yeah . project manager : so it 's six . user interface : s yeah . marketing : you said seven ? project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause it 's five five seven seven so industrial designer : okay . user interface : uh , okay , definitely easy to use . industrial designer : definitely seven . user interface : seven . project manager : seven . seven . and you ? outl you are not lik outlier . marketing : five . user interface : project manager : seven industrial designer : project manager : okay okay okay okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : sorry , i have them user interface : alright , now here 's the sixty million dollar question , project manager : user interface : well , twenty five twenty five euro question . project manager : of course i 'll buy the banana . user interface : what do you what do you guys reckon ? marketing : of cour of course the most difficult question for the end . project manager : well industrial designer : i 'll say five . i 'll say five . project manager : twenty five euros . cheap . industrial designer : marketing : i find it quite cheap actually . user interface : marketing : i dunno . if i i it depends , if you live in in switzerland or you live in project manager : yeah , so the target price is for all europe , or only for rich countries ? it 's more targeting u_k_ or marketing : i do n't know . wha the initial specifications were for the whole all europe or user interface : uh project manager : so this is selling costs , not production costs . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah this is the the initial specifications . project manager : yeah yeah sure . um five . marketing : i would say six . it 's quite cheap actually . user interface : i 'd say two . project manager : aw , should be nice in your user interface : i do n't want a banana on my living room table , a banana remote . industrial designer : no but it 's really handy actually if you see . user interface : it is handy , it 's handy , but it it 's terrible . industrial designer : it 's it 's so handy . and then project manager : it 's kitsch . industrial designer : anyb anybody who comes here anybody who comes to your home he 'll at least ask once what is this . user interface : yeah . yeah , but it 's not a positive thing . industrial designer : it 's a very positive thing if you see like that . user interface : well , you know , it 's it 's handy , it 's ergonomic , but it 's a banana . project manager : well , do n't forget well , do n't for do n't forget who we 're targeting also who are f f who are wh industrial designer : youngsters . project manager : yeah , youngst youngst user interface : yeah but it says i , i would buy this , so . marketing : actually maybe project manager : no well yeah i if you would be young . marketing : yeah project manager : not telling that you are young . li li like a teenager for instance . user interface : no , it 's i . i would buy industrial designer : project manager : okay you 're you 're crazy teenager and you like fun things . industrial designer : you want to flaunt . project manager : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : you with your girlfriend or something . project manager : yeah , you want to show the beautiful banana you have . industrial designer : or might be it does some other kind of thing but user interface : still i i 'd say two . i do n't think i at any stage in my life i would want a banana remote control , really . industrial designer : uh yeah , crazy . project manager : okay so you s you give user interface : i can say , maybe there is a market for it , i dunno . project manager : oh yeah yeah i know i know . industrial designer : project manager : so you say two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i say five . project manager : f i d i say five . you say ? marketing : i change the question . project manager : so what 's the new question ? industrial designer : and you have saved it ? marketing : so yeah upload the industrial designer : you 'll have to reload . project manager : uh yeah , i think so . user interface : okay , so , it depends if uh marketing : yeah it 's two different situations . if you really need an universal remote control or if you would change your remote control for a n for a new one . project manager : yeah that 's two different question . user interface : if i had t if i had to spend twenty five euro , if that was like my limit , maybe i would buy it . because the other twenty five euro remote controls are probably gon na look project manager : ugly . user interface : worse than a banana . industrial designer : they 're not going to be as and they they might not be a as easy as this marketing : user interface : and it yeah this is gon na f you know handy to use . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : so ? what now ? what range ? project manager : i stick to five . user interface : although it still has it still has the word of course at the beginning industrial designer : i go slightly up . six . user interface : so i dunno . um . project manager : w we have six , five user interface : i 'd give it i 'd give it a project manager : three user interface : i give it a four now . industrial designer : marketing : six ? six ? project manager : so we are six , five , four industrial designer : six , five , four . marketing : six , so it 's uh five point five , or less . project manager : yeah . so industrial designer : okay . project manager : so and last question , will i change my rem change my remote control from mando banana . um , zero . no uh we ca n't . marketing : project manager : so one . user interface : marketing : actually yeah , i we project manager : well if . user interface : yeah . project manager : no uh let 's say i 'll put two . user interface : i 'd say three , i mean my remote control is kinda at home is pretty terrible . if it was change my remote control of my d_v_d_ player for a mando banana then i would be more inclined to project manager : it 's for the tv . user interface : but uh 'cause it 's really bad but uh marketing : user interface : i 'd say a three . industrial designer : i 'll still give it five . yeah . marketing : five ? project manager : two three five two three fi and two . marketing : you are romantic , really . industrial designer : so it 's somewhere three point five i think . marketing : i would say two . project manager : so it 's r yeah , three point five . marketing : who is the outlier ? user interface : marketing : wh wh you said five ? project manager : no no you say five , he is the outlier . industrial designer : no i said five . project manager : okay just just do a sum . marketing : i do n't know if it 's a user interface : it 's not very promising but you know we 're not young trendsetters . marketing : no because there are more yeah , we should n't sum like that . project manager : well maybe we should we should uh have a look globally glob marketing : because the the last two questions is much more important than the rest actually . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : otherwise we would n't we will not sell . user interface : is there some some formula you 're using that says you have to sum them up ? marketing : uh no i did n't anything . user interface : well just leave it at that then . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : oops . project manager : so maybe maybe w we can we should stick to general feeling . we can had uh have a out of these numbers , which which is that well we should go for it . marketing : yeah , the uh yeah . project manager : problem with connectors ? marketing : do you want me to sum industrial designer : yeah it 's it 's funny . marketing : o i think it 's not user interface : i think it it kind of you just lose information if you sum it , so . project manager : okay . so let 's move uh let 's move on . </s>
<s> why did user interface change from giving two out of seven to giving four when discussing evaluation criteria on whether people would buy the remote control ? </s> user interface : alright , now here 's the sixty million dollar question , project manager : user interface : well , twenty five twenty five euro question . project manager : of course i 'll buy the banana . user interface : what do you what do you guys reckon ? marketing : of cour of course the most difficult question for the end . project manager : well industrial designer : i 'll say five . i 'll say five . project manager : twenty five euros . cheap . industrial designer : marketing : i find it quite cheap actually . user interface : marketing : i dunno . if i i it depends , if you live in in switzerland or you live in project manager : yeah , so the target price is for all europe , or only for rich countries ? it 's more targeting u_k_ or marketing : i do n't know . wha the initial specifications were for the whole all europe or user interface : uh project manager : so this is selling costs , not production costs . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah this is the the initial specifications . project manager : yeah yeah sure . um five . marketing : i would say six . it 's quite cheap actually . user interface : i 'd say two . project manager : aw , should be nice in your user interface : i do n't want a banana on my living room table , a banana remote . industrial designer : no but it 's really handy actually if you see . user interface : it is handy , it 's handy , but it it 's terrible . industrial designer : it 's it 's so handy . and then project manager : it 's kitsch . industrial designer : anyb anybody who comes here anybody who comes to your home he 'll at least ask once what is this . user interface : yeah . yeah , but it 's not a positive thing . industrial designer : it 's a very positive thing if you see like that . user interface : well , you know , it 's it 's handy , it 's ergonomic , but it 's a banana . project manager : well , do n't forget well , do n't for do n't forget who we 're targeting also who are f f who are wh industrial designer : youngsters . project manager : yeah , youngst youngst user interface : yeah but it says i , i would buy this , so . marketing : actually maybe project manager : no well yeah i if you would be young . marketing : yeah project manager : not telling that you are young . li li like a teenager for instance . user interface : no , it 's i . i would buy industrial designer : project manager : okay you 're you 're crazy teenager and you like fun things . industrial designer : you want to flaunt . project manager : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : you with your girlfriend or something . project manager : yeah , you want to show the beautiful banana you have . industrial designer : or might be it does some other kind of thing but user interface : still i i 'd say two . i do n't think i at any stage in my life i would want a banana remote control , really . industrial designer : uh yeah , crazy . project manager : okay so you s you give user interface : i can say , maybe there is a market for it , i dunno . project manager : oh yeah yeah i know i know . industrial designer : project manager : so you say two . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i say five . project manager : f i d i say five . you say ? marketing : i change the question . project manager : so what 's the new question ? industrial designer : and you have saved it ? marketing : so yeah upload the industrial designer : you 'll have to reload . project manager : uh yeah , i think so . user interface : okay , so , it depends if uh marketing : yeah it 's two different situations . if you really need an universal remote control or if you would change your remote control for a n for a new one . project manager : yeah that 's two different question . user interface : if i had t if i had to spend twenty five euro , if that was like my limit , maybe i would buy it . because the other twenty five euro remote controls are probably gon na look project manager : ugly . user interface : worse than a banana . industrial designer : they 're not going to be as and they they might not be a as easy as this marketing : user interface : and it yeah this is gon na f you know handy to use . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : so ? what now ? what range ? project manager : i stick to five . user interface : although it still has it still has the word of course at the beginning industrial designer : i go slightly up . six . user interface : so i dunno . um . project manager : w we have six , five user interface : i 'd give it i 'd give it a project manager : three </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about the cost estimation . </s> project manager : okay , now now we have to mm to estimate uh the cost okay . so i prepare an excel sh uh an excel sheet . um well we are going to calculate the production costs . we should we should be below twelve point five . so i already uh put some pu some numbers here , okay . we are going to go through so this is the number the mm number of components we need for this thing . so it appears that there were things that we did n't thought about . uh and also things that i uh i d i forget to uh to put like solar cells . user interface : well we decided against the solar cells so industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : oh yeah finally we say no . industrial designer : solar cells , yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah , we said no to that . project manager : okay so let 's let 's go let 's go let go through all the lines . so hand dynamo . this something we did n't thought about . but user interface : you mean , charging it by shaking the banana . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think rechargeable batteries will take care of the power thing . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay so we we stick to battery , one . industrial designer : to bring the cost yeah . project manager : no kinetic also . i do n't i do n't see the difference between kinetic and dynamo . user interface : well maybe dynamo is like you have to actually project manager : ah you have to ah okay i see so kinetic is really uh shaking the banana . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : crazy . okay . so those banana is falling . let 's go ahead . so we we st only have one for battery . uh then for electronics um so i did n't put anything for the . industrial designer : so we have the regular chip on the print , which is one . project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and that 's it . project manager : okay . no so we hin industrial designer : and we have sample speaker . project manager : yeah so one . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . the cost of that is very high . project manager : ooh ye ye ye the cost is increasing . so we are user interface : well actually that that no that sample speaker is not we we 're not using that , we 're just using the the very beep simple beep , project manager : the beep . user interface : that s that sample thing is like the voice recording and everything . industrial designer : uh-huh . project manager : that 's what industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : okay so i 'll remove it . user interface : so yeah . i say that yeah . project manager : so do n't we need a industrial designer : and we have sev project manager : oh there is no listing for r radio frequency thing . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so industrial designer : so we we 'll put some extras , if there is something . project manager : yeah maybe . we 'll see later . okay so in for the case um i put single curved . industrial designer : okay . to reduce the cost , it 's okay . user interface : well , wait a second , project manager : because we have two things . user interface : no , it 's it 's double curved , it 's got a c , it 's uh industrial designer : oh it 's got all the directions so do n't worry . user interface : well d yeah it 's monotonic but marketing : industrial designer : it 's got a direction . user interface : it 's got but if you hold it if you hold it that way that 's two curved , one on this side , one on that side , but they 're opposite sides . project manager : well . what a what i if i put one here . user interface : this is actually i mean this probably marketing : actually what 's the differen user interface : this probably actually costs more than three project manager : yeah so let 's put one here in the then instead of single user interface : if you industrial designer : okay . okay . project manager : oka all right . user interface : yeah . project manager : so we stick to plastic , it cost nothing . industrial designer : yeah . that 's right . user interface : well no did n't we say we wanted to do a rubber project manager : no , it 's too no . user interface : if you drop it ? marketing : too expensive . project manager : it 's too expensive . we 're already at eleven . user interface : well when okay . well we we 'll come back we 'll come back and see if we can fit it in . project manager : okay so i put rubber one . okay so special colour , yellow . user interface : yeah . project manager : uh for the interface we have industrial designer : we do n't have any push buttons . user interface : no , we have two push buttons . project manager : we have three . industrial designer : no that is a scroll wheel itself , it 'll be put in that . project manager : no no . we have two scroll , and we have three push buttons . industrial designer : ah okay , okay . okay , okay . project manager : and user interface : okay it 's gon na have to be plastic . marketing : actually whe whe when you wrote regular chip you should put two , because there is another chip here . project manager : no it 's no chip . this is just radio frequency . th this is no chip . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah but industrial designer : no . there 's no chip there . marketing : you need industrial designer : it just emits the signal . project manager : it 's just industrial designer : and the receiver accepts it and that 's it . project manager : yeah . marketing : fo i it does nothing actually ? project manager : no . just only . industrial designer : just se sends the signal , that 's it . user interface : it 's a recharger thing and uh project manager : okay w we did n't think a thought about uh integrated scroll wheel push buttons . user interface : well i actually did um think about it myself but i thought you know because you could potentially you know you could be pushing it down as you scroll it for a instead of a turbo button project manager : yeah , user interface : but you know the turbo button does add that extra class . project manager : so yeah . user interface : you know . so i mean if we 're if we 're over budget then maybe we could we could rethink that . project manager : okay . so no lcd , so for we have no button supplements , right ? industrial designer : yep . no . project manager : uh well in fact could we could not we consider this button as a button supplement because oh no , these are these are for colours , co and special forms , special colours and special materials . user interface : yeah . no we 're not project manager : so user interface : we do n't need anything special for the buttons . project manager : okay so we are over budget . industrial designer : yeah . so first thing which we should take care of is , user interface : make it plastic instead of rubber . industrial designer : instead of rubber , let it be plastic . project manager : yeah . user interface : and then we 're basically o on budget except for you know ten cents . industrial designer : and uh that much money will be required for the base station , which is not there . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so mayb in fact n we have to put two here because it cost nothing . user interface : yeah well pl the base station is made out of m many units of plastic . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : industrial designer : so might be ninety centimes for the the remaining things which the cord and everything which 'll go project manager : exactly exactly so we have margin for that stuff . user interface : does that include charging circuitry and everything ? industrial designer : that 's right . project manager : yeah maybe . okay good . wha industrial designer : yeah . project manager : excellent . user interface : so what do we do with the extra profits ? project manager : um we 'll invest in r_ and d_ . user interface : okay . marketing : user interface : the next fruit . project manager : yeah . so well we 're under the the the cost . so we can go to through to project evaluation . marketing : okay so now we have a product which nobody would would buy . would yeah , would buy . project manager : sorry ? user interface : no we have a product which none of us would buy . marketing : yeah because th th the evaluation project project manager : which is different . which is different . none of us will buy it . user interface : no it 's people in in in milan and uh in paris that are gon na buy it . marketing : ah would buy , yeah . user interface : we 're n marketing : massively , yeah . user interface : yeah . we 're not in milan or paris . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . okay . uh you have been in milan a couple of times , so . project manager : this is a battery . user interface : actually there were a lot of industrial designer : marketing : and you said the lowest . user interface : project manager : this is what we which you can mm industrial designer : s detachable battery . project manager : it did yeah . user interface : that 's 'cause i 'm sick of milan . marketing : yeah , for the batteries project manager : extra battery , yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about the project process . </s> user interface : okay so um project process . project manager : exac well in fact i i did not know i did n't know really what to say here . marketing : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : if uh if you have any ideas of what we can we can say . so i do n't i do n't i do n't understand what what they mean by satisfaction um and for and for example . user interface : project manager : should it be more like um like a status of of the these meetings in fact . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah well in fact uh we we use a little bit the white board and the digital pen , not that much . user interface : i dunno i think we had a fair bit of creativity . project manager : oh yeah it 's really creative . user interface : and uh but i think one thing we m missed out of this whole process was a um like a focus group with the actual people we 're targeting . industrial designer : user interface : we needed some of these kind of young trendsetters to come in and play with the banana and you know see if they project manager : yeah . industrial designer : they like that . user interface : see if they like it . project manager : yeah maybe we should go through , yeah an uh evaluation . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : because yeah the evaluation for us is is kind of pointless . industrial designer : biased . project manager : so maybe you should we should do a kinda evaluation in the streets like asking to young peoples well , do you like to have a banana as a remote control . user interface : yeah . because it it would also be interesting to uh you to know find out if we have a market in really young children as well , to see you know how to how to market this thing . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : 'cause you know if well i mean maybe you do n't wan na give all your kids their own remote because they 'll be changing the channel all the time but you know maybe in some households where there is you know a tv for each kid , then you know , banana remote control could be fun for them as well . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : might have to draw a face on it . so but i think that 's something we need to to work on next time is really finding out more about the target market . project manager : yep . any any new ideas we could uh we could investigate next time ? dunno , oranges ? industrial designer : yeah . the cost of the thing can be made more than might be . because i think it 's just the optimal , what we have done for the cost which we are looking forward to . user interface : yeah . i think there are ways we could maybe simplify the industrial designer : interface . user interface : well just the the the circuit board that we 're using inside , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i 'm not sure really how complicated our um industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : our needs are . i mean all we have is two push buttons and two scrollers , do we really need an integrated circuit to you know to process that . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : so more general remote control instead of just focusing on uh on tv . industrial designer : that 's right . marketing : the complexity should n't be much higher . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : for you said if it good for d_v_d_ then i would user interface : and also fo you know for mood lighting and and stuff , that would be rather cool . i think that 's actually something that should be in version two , is the ability to you know to control things other than the tv industrial designer : integrate . user interface : and not just electronic equipment but you know the whole environment of the room . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . very good . so industrial designer : so what else ? project manager : well done . i think we we can go industrial designer : okay . home ? project manager : home . industrial designer : happily satisfied . marketing : project manager : yeah . maybe maybe we can hassle the the production department to to make a a real prototype that we can use at home to to evaluate . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay so thanks very much . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . </s>
<s> what did user interface think of the new investigation next time when discussing the project process ? </s> project manager : yep . any any new ideas we could uh we could investigate next time ? dunno , oranges ? industrial designer : yeah . the cost of the thing can be made more than might be . because i think it 's just the optimal , what we have done for the cost which we are looking forward to . user interface : yeah . i think there are ways we could maybe simplify the industrial designer : interface . user interface : well just the the the circuit board that we 're using inside , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i 'm not sure really how complicated our um industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : our needs are . i mean all we have is two push buttons and two scrollers , do we really need an integrated circuit to you know to process that . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : so more general remote control instead of just focusing on uh on tv . industrial designer : that 's right . marketing : the complexity should n't be much higher . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : for you said if it good for d_v_d_ then i would user interface : and also fo you know for mood lighting and and stuff , that would be rather cool . i think that 's actually something that should be in version two , is the ability to you know to control things other than the tv industrial designer : integrate . user interface : and not just electronic equipment but you know the whole environment of the room . industrial designer : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : so we come to the third meetings . i have good . industrial designer : project manager : um so in the last meeting we have discussed the functional design and now we will talk about the conceptual design . so we will talk about some specific details . industrial designer : okay so i think i will do my presentation on the components concept so can you please uh open uh i 'm participant two . project manager : this industrial designer : components design . okay so uh the first thing uh i have done is to to made a review together with the uh manufactural uh department and have which components was uh available to build a remote control . so for energy sources we have we have to choose between the solar energy , hand dynamo and uh kinetic um well uh kinetic uh technique to to store the energy . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : we also um we also can put a regular battery in the in the remote control . now project manager : uh this is what we have decided in the last meeting . but if we use battery industrial designer : yeah b uh f well uh i meant uh by by battery i meant uh i will not have a uh a wire between the remote control and the energy source but uh i did n't fou we did n't decide yet which kind of battery we will put inside the the remote . so uh it 's a point to discuss . then uh the case material we have uh uh also several choices , like wood , rubber , titanium or latex . but uh well it 's not a a re uh well a real issue for the from the technical uh point of view . concerning the interface uh we can we can put mm just simple buttons or scrolls or buttons uh much more complicated , but it also requires that the chip to process the button is more complicated so . and uh this is the last point , the choice of chips . so what i have f found is that i think basic battery or kinetic uh energy uh collection is the is the better way to provide energy because i think solar energy wi wo n't work in a cluttered uh uh environment . so um so i think we can start with these two main things . for the case uh well uh i think that uh titanium is um is a good choice because it 's trendy and it 's uh it 's uh well it 's modern and uh user are are are mm will be uh very happy to have a a a nice remote . for the interface uh i think that we can ach achieve uh all the desired functionalities by s just uh using uh rubber buttons , simple buttons and th thus this allow to use a regular chip that are uh well cheaper . and s so uh we can move to the next slide . user interface : sorry . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : what is this single curved what does it mean ? industrial designer : well uh uh i i it 's uh it 's the the shape of the um of the remote . user interface : so it 's it 's not industrial designer : you you will have the well um the the curve will fit into your hand when you grab the user interface : yo l yeah . when you hold on it , it is comfortable to hold . industrial designer : yeah . it 's more confog f comfortable that if these uh it 's completely flat . user interface : okay . yeah . and the battery , is it kind of a rechargeable or it does n't matter ? industrial designer : yeah the um that 's the point . the kinetic one is uh y you can recharge uh by the um user interface : that that 's what it means by kinetic . industrial designer : yeah and by well by just by moving the ar uh your arm the mm well the remote will uh accumulate energy . user interface : okay . mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : but i d i do n't know it 's if it is feasible because i do n't know if yet if if the user will move enough to provide the remote um all the necessary energy . user interface : mm . mm . okay . yeah . yeah . we we might check with our r_ and d_ department to see if they have this product ready for market . industrial designer : yeah . and yeah and so can you go to the next slide please . so and uh that 's uh that summarize well what i have said . user interface : mm mm . wha industrial designer : so uh you 're right we can uh see in our uh r_ and d_ uh if the kinetic metal is sufficient to provide enough energy . user interface : ah the department . mm . industrial designer : that 's it . user interface : uh so i um keep in touch with the r_ and d_ department . industrial designer : oh yeah user interface : industrial designer : i take care , it 's all right . user interface : so the titanium case is the normal case that i 'll show you some pictures that i have and you tell me whether they are titanium case or not . industrial designer : all right . yeah . user interface : 'cause i am not very sure , plastic , titanium or whatever . there 's another point i want to make , is that the uh well you 've seen them i le na my presentation that um i point out some why buttons are not the mm not the only ways you can use yeah . yeah , maybe n industrial designer : project manager : we will , okay . user interface : project manager : three . user interface : yeah . so the user interface is uh i it uses the aspect uh of a computer system , a programme which can be seen or heard or otherwise perceived by the human user and the commands and mechanism the user uses to control its operation and input data . so you s this gives you the ways to input data and we have uh we are more we emphasise more on the graphical user interface here . the idea is to represent buttons as figures , diagrams , symbols and on so you you can easily when you look at the symbols you understand what it is doing . project manager : what 's the function of this button . user interface : yeah . yeah . so . project manager : i think it makes the the interface really user interface : ea easy to use . so next one . project manager : graphical user interface . user interface : function five . so i can use the button , the mouse maybe . project manager : a graphical user interface emphasise the use of pictures . user interface : yeah . so next line . so the here are some examples . so they cluster the buttons together . they group them into col they colour them and uh they have different forms as well . mm but this interface are kind of confusing . uh basically there are too many buttons . right . next one . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so some people are propose voice recognition and so ah by the way i receive an email from the from one our departments saying that the voice recognition has been used in the coffee machine for this by a company industrial designer : user interface : when you tell the you say good morning coffee machine and the machine are reply to you . so i just got an email saying that . industrial designer : mm-hmm mm mm . user interface : and it seems like this voice recognition technology is ready to be used so we might consider that , supposedly . industrial designer : yeah fine . user interface : the next one . mm so somebody some people use uh some people use a spinning wheel th with the l_c_ display so instead of using the mm buttons you have a lcd screen and then there you can u you can use that as buttons , you can use that as real so so that could be an option as well . touch screen , i mean . project manager : yeah . user interface : next one . and some people propose a scroll button . integrated with push buttons or you may have scroll button instead of p just the push button . like the one we have here . uh , next one . so mm project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so there are a few aspects that i collected here . so s basically this deals with special users , children , handicapped people , old people , and uh mm and prog basically they are programmable , specially for children . and uh mm yeah yeah . and then they also secure uh covers , to protect uh secure and hidden programming and battery covers that will protect your settings . so but we do n't have to integrate all these complicated features . i 'm just saying that the currently in the market there are there are control there are remote controllers f customisable for different people . yeah , so that 's the point . the next one . and uh you see this is the one where you have the protection cover . mm maybe useful for children , they migh you you they only see the buttons outside . and for adults wh where you have more control you can see the one inside . so the adults might wan na have a key to lock that to pr so children will not touch the button inside . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : s a good idea . user interface : the next one . industrial designer : user interface : so this guy this is another company that provides big buttons . at i see that that is useful for old people and then you do n't get it lost . but for our product we do n't need a big one because you have voice recognition e eventually with use . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and you can call your remote controller if you do n't know where it is . industrial designer : user interface : tv remote controller where are you ? project manager : user interface : and then , he will beeps and to say that i am here , for example . industrial designer : project manager : we should include speech synthesis in this case , no ? user interface : is it possible ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh ? industrial designer : yeah but uh as norman say if uh there is uh already a commercial product available who t who do this we we can check uh to integrate it i into our uh new remote control . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . and uh , this is another one where you can uh the the the part that 's a v_ standing for the volume . so there 's a up arrow and a down arrow . but you the see that in the v_ , the v_ appears to be the down arrow on the top on the top up arrow if you project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : up arrow there 's a v_ like as as if it 's turning down so it 's confusing interface , so i wan na avoid this kind of thing in the design . industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : and here are is uh here is a s short summary that i summary that i compiled after the findings i found . big buttons are convenient , voice recognition helps , push buttons , scroll buttons , spinning wheels can be used as navigation tools . and uh user customisable is important and finally simplicity simplicity is the key . yeah . so we have many concepts there industrial designer : hmm . user interface : but we have to choose later on which ones are important to be used . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and basically uh industrial designer : well i i think you it 's it 's it 's fine you have uh reviewed all all the possibilities user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but uh uh well uh i if we consider that uh the user interface is displayed on the tv screen i do n't think we nee uh we need much buttons in the remote user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : since we we just have to navigate and to have a okay or enter key or things like that , user interface : yeah . mm . industrial designer : because uh adding wheels or scrolls uh makes the thing more complicated and more expensive also , so . user interface : mm . okay . project manager : or maybe we can include the user manual in the in the remote control and we should have just a button like help and you say uh and you ik you press the button help and maybe you see the the user m might in the in the tv . industrial designer : yeah . that 's a good idea . marketing : industrial designer : to have a help button . user interface : a help button . project manager : yeah . user interface : so you are display on the screen . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : on tv tv screen . user interface : so on the tv screen . industrial designer : on the tv screen . on the tv screen the uh how to use your remote . project manager : so just you push the button user interface : okay . okay . okay . project manager : and we will user interface : so that eliminates all the complicated documentation , project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . so wi marketing : but people are often enough looking at the help , project manager : if the if marketing : once they see the help button they say oh this is a complicated stuff . project manager : no in the case where they need help , in the case where they need help . industrial designer : uh yeah . marketing : it 's a psychology . industrial designer : in a marketing point of view . marketing : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : and let us see what the market demands . project manager : yeah . marketing : we could just go to my presentation . industrial designer : but uh wel well i think project manager : it 's just for user customizable , for kids or old people . marketing : yeah that 's right . project manager : so marketing : i mean it just showed us the remote with an cap which could be used for kids and if you remove the project manager : so it 's the same marketing : same remote with some project manager : can be used by both kids and old people . marketing : both yeah . user interface : mm . well uh what i s propose is that uh you know a remote controller , i it could be a cube , industrial designer : user interface : is uh a small device that uh looks like a cube and maybe you can just change the um the buttons , if you ch turn one side you get one one buttons , you turn the other side you get the other buttons , so for maybe new generation people who get used to the computer they want lots of controls . project manager : maybe for kids , kids they like uh t no l they like to user interface : small industrial designer : uh well . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so le le let 's see what uh what people want . user interface : let 's see the market demand . project manager : marketing : and then we can decide what what we can yeah . user interface : what what market yes yes . marketing : so we just made an marketing survey of what people need from our remotes and how it could be special from the other remotes . and we got the best on the responses from the questionnaires . uh we also have some prizes for the most creative solutions . and we found the following solutions which we could which would be helpful for our design . so seventy percent of the users , they find their remote controls very ugly , they do n't find it pleasant to use in the size or usage or anything . and eighty percent of the people they are always l i mean they are willing to spend more money if the remote control would look fancy . and the current remote controls do not match well the operating behaviour of the user . and seventy five percent of the users said they zap a lot . project manager : yeah . marketing : and fifty percent say they use only ten percent of the buttons , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so the rest of the ninety percent of the buttons they 're not used most of the times . user interface : yeah . yes . marketing : so this were the findings which we found . and also they cited frustrations with the present remote controls . most of fifty percent of the time the remote controls are lost somewhere in the room and people are always searching for them rather than watching the tv . user interface : yeah . marketing : and by the time they found the remote control the program is finished . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so they 're frustrated a lot user interface : marketing : and um if the remote control is too complicated it takes much time to learn the functionality of it . industrial designer : mm , the functionalities yeah . marketing : so you can just see the percentage , fifty percent people they responded that they always lose their remotes and thirty four percent they say that it 's quite difficult to learn if it 's too complex . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so keeping in view all these findings and the frustrations i think this should be the solution for them . we should have an lcd on the rem remote control . industrial designer : well mm w well i i i do n't really see the advantage of having uh lcd on the on the remote control if we have a a a big screen and uh display on the screen . user interface : big screen . industrial designer : it 's marketing : mm-hmm ? industrial designer : yeah of course it 's fancy trendy and so on but it 's it 's expensive to produce and it 's not really marketing : i mean as our survey says that people are willing to pay more if their remotes are fancy . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so if we have a lcd on the remote , rather than looking onto the tv you just look into a remote and navigate it . it 's the same menu as we have saw that ipod remote control . user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : mm . the thing marketing : we just play around industrial designer : yeah but when you play with the ipod you do n't have a big screen in front of you , s project manager : you can use this screen instead of the big se screen , user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : instead of use the yeah . user interface : if you re-use the existing screen , we element eliminate the lcd , after all the lcd just to display and if you have the colourful screen you can make the display colourful , fancy , as fancy as the one on the lcd , marketing : yeah . user interface : maybe even better . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so marketing : i mean this were the points which we got from the market demands . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so i th i i well i think we we can focus on the uh on the fancy look on the uh user interface : yeah . more on a fancy design . marketing : yeah that 's fine . industrial designer : on the speech recognition if the technology is available marketing : yeah . i mean that 's user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but well i think lcd will uh will uh make us spend a lot of money for not so big results . user interface : mm . remember we have a s budget for the cost of producing the remote controller . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but yeah . user interface : yeah . so i is marketing : uh yeah we have uh user interface : so the thing is you can find out how much an lcd will cost and then we 'll decide again . marketing : i mean that should be found out by the industrial designers . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : uh maybe you can find out the price and tell us next time . is i if i industrial designer : so price of uh lcd display . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and marketing : and it 's always good to have an voice recognition for the remote controls . user interface : yeah . and also the cost for the speech recognition . project manager : mm . it 's for user interface : ask our r_ and d_ department . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's just for small vocabulary . we it 's not user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah it 's o only for a limited vocabulary , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . and ho marketing : say eighty commands or so . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah okay . user interface : and also the scroller button , how much will it cost . industrial designer : and well uh compared to the to s the simpl simpler simplest button . project manager : yeah . push push . marketing : mm , the scroll button , from the survey we never see that people would like to have some scrolling button . industrial designer : yeah . yeah i think that marketing : because they they just they 're just frightened to use the scrollings or help button . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah i i i think that uh well uh as we have seen in the in the presentation uh well uh about uh uh fifty percent of the of the percent n choose the button user interface : do n't use the buttons . industrial designer : so uh i think to have uh five uh simple button is sufficient for our functionality . user interface : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . project manager : it does n't mean that the other buttons are not necessary or important . marketing : yeah . user interface : important . industrial designer : yeah . but project manager : but they are just less used compar marketing : they 're not used much . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but the uh the thing is is i is that we can add a functionality on the on the tv screen user interface : yeah . industrial designer : like uh a a list of function user interface : yeah . mm . industrial designer : and then you choose with the with the button to well you navigate user interface : yeah , yeah . so so the at most more power uh . industrial designer : and you project manager : or maybe we can u uh or maybe we can uh make this the ten percent of button more bigger than the others . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : but if i i if we if we could have a a a display uh g a user interface that is very complete on the tv screen i think that just five buttons are sufficient , one to go up left right down and uh enter user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and you you you just select the functionality you want to access or things like that . user interface : mm . mm . yeah . industrial designer : you do n't have to to switch to a channel to another uh user interface : yeah . marketing : or it could be like this , as the people say , if they have a lcd on the remote not on the television . because when you have the lcd onto the television screen you miss the picture in the background , we are most focused on the commands . industrial designer : yeah but marketing : so if you have then lcd in the remote , you just have a menu , and increasing and lower these signs here to change the programs and this menu when you press the menu , in the lcd displays as you go on pressing the menu it faster displays volume , then the program , then the brightness , contrast and all the stuff . industrial designer : yeah but if you look at the lcd you you do n't look at the tv screen marketing : and accordingly you can just increase or decrease . project manager : it 's user interface : mm . mm . industrial designer : so i i it 's not really worth to get to have the image if you do n't look at , so . user interface : i if mm . mm . project manager : and i think it 's increases the cost of the the remote control if you use lcd . i user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah that has to be checked out . user interface : i think that there 's no contradiction here , because if there are few buttons , you do n't have to look at your your controller any more because you know where the buttons are , so if you wan na control the screen d sh sharpness you just say sharpness industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then you t turn you just press lef increase or decrease button industrial designer : user interface : and the same for the volume and the channel , marketing : yeah . user interface : if you had the speech recognition there you just shout your channel , just tell your channel and then you do n't even have to look at the butto at the controller so finally that wil eliminates the the need for lcd , marketing : okay . user interface : with the help of speech recogniser you can marketing : i mean , better if we could just check all the cost with lcd user interface : yeah . marketing : and also with the speech recognition . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then we could find which would would be a more suitable in this case . user interface : mm . mm . yeah . a and marketing : and the third problem was to find the remote control . always , so fifty percent of the people say they lose the remotes . industrial designer : well so we we can think about a well a a vocal command like uh find and when the remote control uh hears fine well yeah just uh to make him beep or t project manager : you will listen to a peep , special peep . user interface : where , yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right , that 's exactly what i mean by voice commander . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : or it could be also something like this , user interface : yeah . marketing : uh it 's always boring to change the batteries of the remotes control , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we have some one charger there and whenever we do n't use the remote control we put it in the charger . user interface : put it back at the charge . industrial designer : put user interface : yeah . marketing : and when we 're using that t remote and if we misplace somewhere , in the charger we have a small button , and just by pressing the button in the charger the uh remote control beeps , wherever it is . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . and that 's a good idea , that 's simple , like in phones . project manager : yeah . marketing : i mean it doe it also does n't require a voice command , project manager : but you do n't you do n't have to move the the charger . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : because there are problems with a voice command . user interface : hmm . mm . th yeah . mm yeah . yeah . mm . marketing : yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager : you have to keep it . marketing : i mean charger would be fixed industrial designer : yeah . marketing : because it 's always with electricity plugged . industrial designer : yeah if there if there uh there is nuff not enough battery . also and uh uh the remote is lost . project manager : okay . user interface : mm . there 's mm . mm . marketing : user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : that we can what we can do is we can program a function whereby when you press the switch off tv button , the off button , the remote there be s uh instruction on the screen , please charge charge me . you never get it lost industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because uh every time you 're off the computer the tv you are asked the the command the tv com remote controller would tell you to put it back to where to the charger . marketing : it 's an good reminder , user interface : yeah . so you will never get lost yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . industrial designer : okay . project manager : maybe for some people lazy people . user interface : yeah . yeah because everything is programmed inside . project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : so it 's it 's uh it 's all about strategy , y marketing : and of course the final point is a fancy look . as we have seen earlier the remotes which were displayed by norman they were n't fancy , industrial designer : they were ugly . user interface : yeah , yeah . marketing : i mean mm very big or something with lot of buttons . industrial designer : they marketing : i think we should have something it industrial designer : well the last one with the um yeah with the two parts was uh original , so user interface : with uh two two two parts controller . marketing : i mean uh i mean uh i mean uh you see if it 's like that even a kid who wants to have a control he could just plug it and use it , you ca n't avoid him . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but you can have an button for child lock . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so just by pressing the button with some code , you t you put a lock onto the remote , so that he ca n't use even user interface : mm . mm . mm . mm . industrial designer : well we can think about uh having uh on the on the on the user interface when you switch on the tv you can uh well write a code or choose a category , if it is kids , uh things like that . marketing : mm uh project manager : or user interface : mm . yeah . mm . marketing : that 's right . project manager : or maybe you have to to show some specific programmes for kids and then just just yeah just push uh kids button so it 's automatically user interface : mm . these are probl yeah . mm . mm . mm . project manager : . so if he . marketing : i think these other four points they 're the market demands and so it 's for the user interface design and industrial design to just think industrial designer : so for mm project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so for my part i will check the prices the um the prices difference uh of what to use , where to use , and s uh and so on . marketing : yeah i think it should be clearer for us in the next meeting that th uh these could be included . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm . i think we need to define also a s the set of vocabularies for the speech recogniser industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because uh if you want uh say we can sort by channels or sort by tv programs , you have to decide a category of vocabularies for them . if numbers , they 're easy , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but if name the channel by by name industrial designer : well i think we can we can have just numbers for channels and you can say to your remote control like uh sports and then on the tv you have a list with with uh uh well with sports program playing now and and uh marketing : no , we have a problem there . you see uh if you have a voice commands and you are s you are watching a score on uh basketball score or something , and if the score comes twenty four thirty five , you 've just say twenty five project manager : yeah it 's yeah . marketing : and suddenly the screen the channel goes to twenty five . industrial designer : that 's right , yeah , yeah . marketing : so i think there should be a prefix to some numbers industrial designer : well but well e every possible word uh has a probability to come about of the tv so . user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean the the you just check all the probability that saying tv twenty five and just ordinary twenty five . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : ordinary twenty five you almost there 's a probability of being said around sixty seventy percent industrial designer : yeah but well okay . marketing : and tv twenty five i dunno it will be round about one or two percent . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's better to have some prefix before the number . user interface : but i i i think that the user would like wou would like to associate the channel or call the channel rather than than the numbers . marketing : yeah something , some code . user interface : you say numbe channel number five of the tv correspond to something else in the channel . industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : so some people may want to say , i want to see this channel . industrial designer : mm mm . well i marketing : that will be too big . project manager : or just marketing : and it will be difficult for the vocabulary also . user interface : yeah . check with the v r_ and d_ department the capability of recogniser . project manager : it 's difficult to to just say the the name of the channel . it will be difficult to say just the name of the channel . user interface : uh ? project manager : because you have to s t uh a ch user interface : well , it 's convenient for the user . project manager : yeah but you have to to have all the name of the channel in your vocabulary . marketing : als might be you just forgot the channel name , you kno only know the number . project manager : or maybe industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then project manager : or maybe the user can create his own vocabulary , user interface : the uh uh mm . mm . project manager : just pronouncing the the name of channels and include in the vocabulary . user interface : i i think that i have mm mm i think there 's another way you can do is that uh you can uh if when the user ch press a button to choose the channel for example , then what you can do is that the you can make the tv screen to split them into small little little squares of images where you you you have a snapshot of every channel , so let 's say it 's a four by four matrix of the images , so now what you do is f looking at the all the sixteen channels available at one time , you just use the control button uh , you just you you just choose the the option you want marketing : yeah , the . user interface : and then you just hit the button and then you go to that channel . so project manager : or lets the user create his own vocabulary of channel . user interface : mm . so you you do n't use the speech recogniser in that way . project manager : no . just you have uh in the beginning you have uh t you have to train you have to create the vocabulary by yourself . user interface : oh , okay . yeah . industrial designer : well i uh i also project manager : by associating each channel with the name or industrial designer : i i also think about uh another problem , if if there is uh more than one person who is watching tv project manager : and for each one has his own . user interface : industrial designer : the s well the the speech uh r recogniser should be able to distinguish between the two . marketing : yeah yeah , . industrial designer : because uh i remember when i was a young child with my sister we yeah we always want to w to watch different emission at the at the same time project manager : or you have to s user interface : yeah , i wan na watch this , i wan na watch that . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's a pr it could be a problem if uh if well if someone passes by when you are watching tv and say oh tv thirty and just run , s marketing : a and in the same lines we would have a one more problem . if we are using the television in the different environments , say in the factories or in the shops where there is a lot of noise and this voice commands if they fail to work , that would bring a bad name bad uh reputation for our company . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so i think we should specify some pre-requirements if we want to use a voice commands , say that it should be used in an silent homely environment or s something . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or we can switch on or switch off the the special , yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right that should be an option . industrial designer : yeah that 's well i think that 's a good uh a good option because it 's simple and uh simple to implement also , so . marketing : i think these are the practical problems . so we need to take care of them in the design . project manager : maybe we 'll discuss them in next meeting . industrial designer : project manager : it 's time to close this meeting . user interface : well , you you stay a five minutes . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : marketing : oh it came there on three minutes back so we are i think we can just press the okay . industrial designer : okay . project manager : thanks for your collaborations . industrial designer : so i see ya . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the components concept of industrial design . </s> industrial designer : okay so i think i will do my presentation on the components concept so can you please uh open uh i 'm participant two . project manager : this industrial designer : components design . okay so uh the first thing uh i have done is to to made a review together with the uh manufactural uh department and have which components was uh available to build a remote control . so for energy sources we have we have to choose between the solar energy , hand dynamo and uh kinetic um well uh kinetic uh technique to to store the energy . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : we also um we also can put a regular battery in the in the remote control . now project manager : uh this is what we have decided in the last meeting . but if we use battery industrial designer : yeah b uh f well uh i meant uh by by battery i meant uh i will not have a uh a wire between the remote control and the energy source but uh i did n't fou we did n't decide yet which kind of battery we will put inside the the remote . so uh it 's a point to discuss . then uh the case material we have uh uh also several choices , like wood , rubber , titanium or latex . but uh well it 's not a a re uh well a real issue for the from the technical uh point of view . concerning the interface uh we can we can put mm just simple buttons or scrolls or buttons uh much more complicated , but it also requires that the chip to process the button is more complicated so . and uh this is the last point , the choice of chips . so what i have f found is that i think basic battery or kinetic uh energy uh collection is the is the better way to provide energy because i think solar energy wi wo n't work in a cluttered uh uh environment . so um so i think we can start with these two main things . for the case uh well uh i think that uh titanium is um is a good choice because it 's trendy and it 's uh it 's uh well it 's modern and uh user are are are mm will be uh very happy to have a a a nice remote . for the interface uh i think that we can ach achieve uh all the desired functionalities by s just uh using uh rubber buttons , simple buttons and th thus this allow to use a regular chip that are uh well cheaper . and s so uh we can move to the next slide . user interface : sorry . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : what is this single curved what does it mean ? industrial designer : well uh uh i i it 's uh it 's the the shape of the um of the remote . user interface : so it 's it 's not industrial designer : you you will have the well um the the curve will fit into your hand when you grab the user interface : yo l yeah . when you hold on it , it is comfortable to hold . industrial designer : yeah . it 's more confog f comfortable that if these uh it 's completely flat . user interface : okay . yeah . and the battery , is it kind of a rechargeable or it does n't matter ? industrial designer : yeah the um that 's the point . the kinetic one is uh y you can recharge uh by the um user interface : that that 's what it means by kinetic . industrial designer : yeah and by well by just by moving the ar uh your arm the mm well the remote will uh accumulate energy . user interface : okay . mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : but i d i do n't know it 's if it is feasible because i do n't know if yet if if the user will move enough to provide the remote um all the necessary energy . user interface : mm . mm . okay . yeah . yeah . we we might check with our r_ and d_ department to see if they have this product ready for market . industrial designer : yeah . and yeah and so can you go to the next slide please . so and uh that 's uh that summarize well what i have said . user interface : mm mm . wha industrial designer : so uh you 're right we can uh see in our uh r_ and d_ uh if the kinetic metal is sufficient to provide enough energy . user interface : ah the department . mm . industrial designer : that 's it . user interface : uh so i um keep in touch with the r_ and d_ department . industrial designer : oh yeah user interface : industrial designer : i take care , it 's all right . user interface : so the titanium case is the normal case that i 'll show you some pictures that i have and you tell me whether they are titanium case or not . industrial designer : all right . yeah . user interface : 'cause i am not very sure , plastic , titanium or whatever . there 's another point i want to make , is that the uh well you 've seen them i le na my presentation that um i point out some why buttons are not the mm not the only ways you can use yeah . yeah , maybe n industrial designer : project manager : we will , okay . </s>
<s> what did the team agree about kinetic battery when talking about the components concept of industrial design ? </s> industrial designer : okay so uh the first thing uh i have done is to to made a review together with the uh manufactural uh department and have which components was uh available to build a remote control . so for energy sources we have we have to choose between the solar energy , hand dynamo and uh kinetic um well uh kinetic uh technique to to store the energy . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : we also um we also can put a regular battery in the in the remote control . now project manager : uh this is what we have decided in the last meeting . but if we use battery industrial designer : yeah b uh f well uh i meant uh by by battery i meant uh i will not have a uh a wire between the remote control and the energy source but uh i did n't fou we did n't decide yet which kind of battery we will put inside the the remote . so uh it 's a point to discuss . then uh the case material we have uh uh also several choices , like wood , rubber , titanium or latex . but uh well it 's not a a re uh well a real issue for the from the technical uh point of view . concerning the interface uh we can we can put mm just simple buttons or scrolls or buttons uh much more complicated , but it also requires that the chip to process the button is more complicated so . and uh this is the last point , the choice of chips . so what i have f found is that i think basic battery or kinetic uh energy uh collection is the is the better way to provide energy because i think solar energy wi wo n't work in a cluttered uh uh environment . so um so i think we can start with these two main things . for the case uh well uh i think that uh titanium is um is a good choice because it 's trendy and it 's uh it 's uh well it 's modern and uh user are are are mm will be uh very happy to have a a a nice remote . for the interface uh i think that we can ach achieve uh all the desired functionalities by s just uh using uh rubber buttons , simple buttons and th thus this allow to use a regular chip that are uh well cheaper . and s so uh we can move to the next slide . user interface : sorry . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : what is this single curved what does it mean ? industrial designer : well uh uh i i it 's uh it 's the the shape of the um of the remote . user interface : so it 's it 's not industrial designer : you you will have the well um the the curve will fit into your hand when you grab the user interface : yo l yeah . when you hold on it , it is comfortable to hold . industrial designer : yeah . it 's more confog f comfortable that if these uh it 's completely flat . user interface : okay . yeah . and the battery , is it kind of a rechargeable or it does n't matter ? industrial designer : yeah the um that 's the point . the kinetic one is uh y you can recharge uh by the um user interface : that that 's what it means by kinetic . industrial designer : yeah and by well by just by moving the ar uh your arm the mm well the remote will uh accumulate energy . user interface : okay . mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : but i d i do n't know it 's if it is feasible because i do n't know if yet if if the user will move enough to provide the remote um all the necessary energy . user interface : mm . mm . okay . yeah . yeah . we we might check with our r_ and d_ department to see if they have this product ready for market . industrial designer : yeah . and yeah and so can you go to the next slide please . so and uh that 's uh that summarize well what i have said . user interface : mm mm . wha industrial designer : so uh you 're right we can uh see in our uh r_ and d_ uh if the kinetic metal is sufficient to provide enough energy . user interface : ah the department . mm . industrial designer : that 's it . user interface : uh so i um keep in touch with the r_ and d_ department . industrial designer : oh yeah user interface : </s>
<s> what did team members say about the titanium case when talking about the components concept of industrial design ? </s> industrial designer : so um so i think we can start with these two main things . for the case uh well uh i think that uh titanium is um is a good choice because it 's trendy and it 's uh it 's uh well it 's modern and uh user are are are mm will be uh very happy to have a a a nice remote . for the interface uh i think that we can ach achieve uh all the desired functionalities by s just uh using uh rubber buttons , simple buttons and th thus this allow to use a regular chip that are uh well cheaper . user interface : so the titanium case is the normal case that i 'll show you some pictures that i have and you tell me whether they are titanium case or not . industrial designer : all right . yeah . user interface : 'cause i am not very sure , plastic , titanium or whatever . there 's another point i want to make , is that the uh well you 've seen them i le na my presentation that um i point out some why buttons are not the mm not the only ways you can use yeah . yeah , maybe n industrial designer : project manager : we will , okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about specific details connected with market interests . </s> marketing : so we just made an marketing survey of what people need from our remotes and how it could be special from the other remotes . and we got the best on the responses from the questionnaires . uh we also have some prizes for the most creative solutions . and we found the following solutions which we could which would be helpful for our design . so seventy percent of the users , they find their remote controls very ugly , they do n't find it pleasant to use in the size or usage or anything . and eighty percent of the people they are always l i mean they are willing to spend more money if the remote control would look fancy . and the current remote controls do not match well the operating behaviour of the user . and seventy five percent of the users said they zap a lot . project manager : yeah . marketing : and fifty percent say they use only ten percent of the buttons , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so the rest of the ninety percent of the buttons they 're not used most of the times . user interface : yeah . yes . marketing : so this were the findings which we found . and also they cited frustrations with the present remote controls . most of fifty percent of the time the remote controls are lost somewhere in the room and people are always searching for them rather than watching the tv . user interface : yeah . marketing : and by the time they found the remote control the program is finished . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so they 're frustrated a lot user interface : marketing : and um if the remote control is too complicated it takes much time to learn the functionality of it . industrial designer : mm , the functionalities yeah . marketing : so you can just see the percentage , fifty percent people they responded that they always lose their remotes and thirty four percent they say that it 's quite difficult to learn if it 's too complex . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so keeping in view all these findings and the frustrations i think this should be the solution for them . we should have an lcd on the rem remote control . industrial designer : well mm w well i i i do n't really see the advantage of having uh lcd on the on the remote control if we have a a a big screen and uh display on the screen . user interface : big screen . industrial designer : it 's marketing : mm-hmm ? industrial designer : yeah of course it 's fancy trendy and so on but it 's it 's expensive to produce and it 's not really marketing : i mean as our survey says that people are willing to pay more if their remotes are fancy . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so if we have a lcd on the remote , rather than looking onto the tv you just look into a remote and navigate it . it 's the same menu as we have saw that ipod remote control . user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : mm . the thing marketing : we just play around industrial designer : yeah but when you play with the ipod you do n't have a big screen in front of you , s project manager : you can use this screen instead of the big se screen , user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : instead of use the yeah . user interface : if you re-use the existing screen , we element eliminate the lcd , after all the lcd just to display and if you have the colourful screen you can make the display colourful , fancy , as fancy as the one on the lcd , marketing : yeah . user interface : maybe even better . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so marketing : i mean this were the points which we got from the market demands . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so i th i i well i think we we can focus on the uh on the fancy look on the uh user interface : yeah . more on a fancy design . marketing : yeah that 's fine . industrial designer : on the speech recognition if the technology is available marketing : yeah . i mean that 's user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but well i think lcd will uh will uh make us spend a lot of money for not so big results . user interface : mm . remember we have a s budget for the cost of producing the remote controller . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but yeah . user interface : yeah . so i is marketing : uh yeah we have uh user interface : so the thing is you can find out how much an lcd will cost and then we 'll decide again . marketing : i mean that should be found out by the industrial designers . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : uh maybe you can find out the price and tell us next time . is i if i industrial designer : so price of uh lcd display . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and marketing : and it 's always good to have an voice recognition for the remote controls . user interface : yeah . and also the cost for the speech recognition . project manager : mm . it 's for user interface : ask our r_ and d_ department . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's just for small vocabulary . we it 's not user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah it 's o only for a limited vocabulary , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . and ho marketing : say eighty commands or so . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah okay . user interface : and also the scroller button , how much will it cost . industrial designer : and well uh compared to the to s the simpl simpler simplest button . project manager : yeah . push push . marketing : mm , the scroll button , from the survey we never see that people would like to have some scrolling button . industrial designer : yeah . yeah i think that marketing : because they they just they 're just frightened to use the scrollings or help button . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah i i i think that uh well uh as we have seen in the in the presentation uh well uh about uh uh fifty percent of the of the percent n choose the button user interface : do n't use the buttons . industrial designer : so uh i think to have uh five uh simple button is sufficient for our functionality . user interface : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . project manager : it does n't mean that the other buttons are not necessary or important . marketing : yeah . user interface : important . industrial designer : yeah . but project manager : but they are just less used compar marketing : they 're not used much . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but the uh the thing is is i is that we can add a functionality on the on the tv screen user interface : yeah . industrial designer : like uh a a list of function user interface : yeah . mm . industrial designer : and then you choose with the with the button to well you navigate user interface : yeah , yeah . so so the at most more power uh . industrial designer : and you project manager : or maybe we can u uh or maybe we can uh make this the ten percent of button more bigger than the others . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : but if i i if we if we could have a a a display uh g a user interface that is very complete on the tv screen i think that just five buttons are sufficient , one to go up left right down and uh enter user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and you you you just select the functionality you want to access or things like that . user interface : mm . mm . yeah . industrial designer : you do n't have to to switch to a channel to another uh user interface : yeah . marketing : or it could be like this , as the people say , if they have a lcd on the remote not on the television . because when you have the lcd onto the television screen you miss the picture in the background , we are most focused on the commands . industrial designer : yeah but marketing : so if you have then lcd in the remote , you just have a menu , and increasing and lower these signs here to change the programs and this menu when you press the menu , in the lcd displays as you go on pressing the menu it faster displays volume , then the program , then the brightness , contrast and all the stuff . industrial designer : yeah but if you look at the lcd you you do n't look at the tv screen marketing : and accordingly you can just increase or decrease . project manager : it 's user interface : mm . mm . industrial designer : so i i it 's not really worth to get to have the image if you do n't look at , so . user interface : i if mm . mm . project manager : and i think it 's increases the cost of the the remote control if you use lcd . i user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah that has to be checked out . user interface : i think that there 's no contradiction here , because if there are few buttons , you do n't have to look at your your controller any more because you know where the buttons are , so if you wan na control the screen d sh sharpness you just say sharpness industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then you t turn you just press lef increase or decrease button industrial designer : user interface : and the same for the volume and the channel , marketing : yeah . user interface : if you had the speech recognition there you just shout your channel , just tell your channel and then you do n't even have to look at the butto at the controller so finally that wil eliminates the the need for lcd , marketing : okay . user interface : with the help of speech recogniser you can marketing : i mean , better if we could just check all the cost with lcd user interface : yeah . marketing : and also with the speech recognition . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then we could find which would would be a more suitable in this case . user interface : mm . mm . yeah . a and marketing : and the third problem was to find the remote control . always , so fifty percent of the people say they lose the remotes . industrial designer : well so we we can think about a well a a vocal command like uh find and when the remote control uh hears fine well yeah just uh to make him beep or t project manager : you will listen to a peep , special peep . user interface : where , yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right , that 's exactly what i mean by voice commander . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : or it could be also something like this , user interface : yeah . marketing : uh it 's always boring to change the batteries of the remotes control , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we have some one charger there and whenever we do n't use the remote control we put it in the charger . user interface : put it back at the charge . industrial designer : put user interface : yeah . marketing : and when we 're using that t remote and if we misplace somewhere , in the charger we have a small button , and just by pressing the button in the charger the uh remote control beeps , wherever it is . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . and that 's a good idea , that 's simple , like in phones . project manager : yeah . marketing : i mean it doe it also does n't require a voice command , project manager : but you do n't you do n't have to move the the charger . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : because there are problems with a voice command . user interface : hmm . mm . th yeah . mm yeah . yeah . mm . marketing : yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager : you have to keep it . marketing : i mean charger would be fixed industrial designer : yeah . marketing : because it 's always with electricity plugged . industrial designer : yeah if there if there uh there is nuff not enough battery . also and uh uh the remote is lost . project manager : okay . user interface : mm . there 's mm . mm . marketing : user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : that we can what we can do is we can program a function whereby when you press the switch off tv button , the off button , the remote there be s uh instruction on the screen , please charge charge me . you never get it lost industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because uh every time you 're off the computer the tv you are asked the the command the tv com remote controller would tell you to put it back to where to the charger . marketing : it 's an good reminder , user interface : yeah . so you will never get lost yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . industrial designer : okay . project manager : maybe for some people lazy people . user interface : yeah . yeah because everything is programmed inside . project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : so it 's it 's uh it 's all about strategy , y marketing : and of course the final point is a fancy look . as we have seen earlier the remotes which were displayed by norman they were n't fancy , industrial designer : they were ugly . user interface : yeah , yeah . marketing : i mean mm very big or something with lot of buttons . industrial designer : they marketing : i think we should have something it industrial designer : well the last one with the um yeah with the two parts was uh original , so user interface : with uh two two two parts controller . marketing : i mean uh i mean uh i mean uh you see if it 's like that even a kid who wants to have a control he could just plug it and use it , you ca n't avoid him . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but you can have an button for child lock . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so just by pressing the button with some code , you t you put a lock onto the remote , so that he ca n't use even user interface : mm . mm . mm . mm . industrial designer : well we can think about uh having uh on the on the on the user interface when you switch on the tv you can uh well write a code or choose a category , if it is kids , uh things like that . marketing : mm uh project manager : or user interface : mm . yeah . mm . marketing : that 's right . project manager : or maybe you have to to show some specific programmes for kids and then just just yeah just push uh kids button so it 's automatically user interface : mm . these are probl yeah . mm . mm . mm . project manager : . so if he . marketing : i think these other four points they 're the market demands and so it 's for the user interface design and industrial design to just think industrial designer : so for mm project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so for my part i will check the prices the um the prices difference uh of what to use , where to use , and s uh and so on . marketing : yeah i think it should be clearer for us in the next meeting that th uh these could be included . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm . i think we need to define also a s the set of vocabularies for the speech recogniser industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because uh if you want uh say we can sort by channels or sort by tv programs , you have to decide a category of vocabularies for them . if numbers , they 're easy , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but if name the channel by by name industrial designer : well i think we can we can have just numbers for channels and you can say to your remote control like uh sports and then on the tv you have a list with with uh uh well with sports program playing now and and uh marketing : no , we have a problem there . you see uh if you have a voice commands and you are s you are watching a score on uh basketball score or something , and if the score comes twenty four thirty five , you 've just say twenty five project manager : yeah it 's yeah . marketing : and suddenly the screen the channel goes to twenty five . industrial designer : that 's right , yeah , yeah . marketing : so i think there should be a prefix to some numbers industrial designer : well but well e every possible word uh has a probability to come about of the tv so . user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean the the you just check all the probability that saying tv twenty five and just ordinary twenty five . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : ordinary twenty five you almost there 's a probability of being said around sixty seventy percent industrial designer : yeah but well okay . marketing : and tv twenty five i dunno it will be round about one or two percent . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's better to have some prefix before the number . user interface : but i i i think that the user would like wou would like to associate the channel or call the channel rather than than the numbers . marketing : yeah something , some code . user interface : you say numbe channel number five of the tv correspond to something else in the channel . industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : so some people may want to say , i want to see this channel . industrial designer : mm mm . well i marketing : that will be too big . project manager : or just marketing : and it will be difficult for the vocabulary also . user interface : yeah . check with the v r_ and d_ department the capability of recogniser . project manager : it 's difficult to to just say the the name of the channel . it will be difficult to say just the name of the channel . user interface : uh ? project manager : because you have to s t uh a ch user interface : well , it 's convenient for the user . project manager : yeah but you have to to have all the name of the channel in your vocabulary . marketing : als might be you just forgot the channel name , you kno only know the number . project manager : or maybe industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then project manager : or maybe the user can create his own vocabulary , user interface : the uh uh mm . mm . project manager : just pronouncing the the name of channels and include in the vocabulary . user interface : i i think that i have mm mm i think there 's another way you can do is that uh you can uh if when the user ch press a button to choose the channel for example , then what you can do is that the you can make the tv screen to split them into small little little squares of images where you you you have a snapshot of every channel , so let 's say it 's a four by four matrix of the images , so now what you do is f looking at the all the sixteen channels available at one time , you just use the control button uh , you just you you just choose the the option you want marketing : yeah , the . user interface : and then you just hit the button and then you go to that channel . so project manager : or lets the user create his own vocabulary of channel . user interface : mm . so you you do n't use the speech recogniser in that way . project manager : no . just you have uh in the beginning you have uh t you have to train you have to create the vocabulary by yourself . user interface : oh , okay . yeah . industrial designer : well i uh i also project manager : by associating each channel with the name or industrial designer : i i also think about uh another problem , if if there is uh more than one person who is watching tv project manager : and for each one has his own . user interface : industrial designer : the s well the the speech uh r recogniser should be able to distinguish between the two . marketing : yeah yeah , . industrial designer : because uh i remember when i was a young child with my sister we yeah we always want to w to watch different emission at the at the same time project manager : or you have to s user interface : yeah , i wan na watch this , i wan na watch that . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's a pr it could be a problem if uh if well if someone passes by when you are watching tv and say oh tv thirty and just run , s marketing : a and in the same lines we would have a one more problem . if we are using the television in the different environments , say in the factories or in the shops where there is a lot of noise and this voice commands if they fail to work , that would bring a bad name bad uh reputation for our company . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so i think we should specify some pre-requirements if we want to use a voice commands , say that it should be used in an silent homely environment or s something . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or we can switch on or switch off the the special , yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right that should be an option . industrial designer : yeah that 's well i think that 's a good uh a good option because it 's simple and uh simple to implement also , so . marketing : i think these are the practical problems . so we need to take care of them in the design . project manager : maybe we 'll discuss them in next meeting . </s>
<s> what did the team decide on how to make the remote control easier to find when discussing specific details connected with market interests ? </s> marketing : and the third problem was to find the remote control . always , so fifty percent of the people say they lose the remotes . industrial designer : well so we we can think about a well a a vocal command like uh find and when the remote control uh hears fine well yeah just uh to make him beep or t project manager : you will listen to a peep , special peep . user interface : where , yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right , that 's exactly what i mean by voice commander . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : or it could be also something like this , user interface : yeah . marketing : uh it 's always boring to change the batteries of the remotes control , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we have some one charger there and whenever we do n't use the remote control we put it in the charger . user interface : put it back at the charge . industrial designer : put user interface : yeah . marketing : and when we 're using that t remote and if we misplace somewhere , in the charger we have a small button , and just by pressing the button in the charger the uh remote control beeps , wherever it is . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . and that 's a good idea , that 's simple , like in phones . project manager : yeah . marketing : i mean it doe it also does n't require a voice command , project manager : but you do n't you do n't have to move the the charger . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : because there are problems with a voice command . user interface : hmm . mm . th yeah . mm yeah . yeah . mm . marketing : yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager : you have to keep it . marketing : i mean charger would be fixed industrial designer : yeah . marketing : because it 's always with electricity plugged . industrial designer : yeah if there if there uh there is nuff not enough battery . also and uh uh the remote is lost . project manager : okay . user interface : mm . there 's mm . mm . marketing : user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : that we can what we can do is we can program a function whereby when you press the switch off tv button , the off button , the remote there be s uh instruction on the screen , please charge charge me . you never get it lost industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because uh every time you 're off the computer the tv you are asked the the command the tv com remote controller would tell you to put it back to where to the charger . marketing : it 's an good reminder , user interface : yeah . so you will never get lost yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . industrial designer : okay . project manager : maybe for some people lazy people . user interface : yeah . yeah because everything is programmed inside . project manager : yeah yeah . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer propose when discussing the set of vocabularies for the speech recogniser when discussing specific details connected with market interests ? </s> user interface : mm . i think we need to define also a s the set of vocabularies for the speech recogniser industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because uh if you want uh say we can sort by channels or sort by tv programs , you have to decide a category of vocabularies for them . if numbers , they 're easy , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but if name the channel by by name industrial designer : well i think we can we can have just numbers for channels and you can say to your remote control like uh sports and then on the tv you have a list with with uh uh well with sports program playing now and and uh marketing : no , we have a problem there . you see uh if you have a voice commands and you are s you are watching a score on uh basketball score or something , and if the score comes twenty four thirty five , you 've just say twenty five project manager : yeah it 's yeah . marketing : and suddenly the screen the channel goes to twenty five . industrial designer : that 's right , yeah , yeah . marketing : so i think there should be a prefix to some numbers industrial designer : well but well e every possible word uh has a probability to come about of the tv so . user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean the the you just check all the probability that saying tv twenty five and just ordinary twenty five . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : ordinary twenty five you almost there 's a probability of being said around sixty seventy percent industrial designer : yeah but well okay . marketing : and tv twenty five i dunno it will be round about one or two percent . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's better to have some prefix before the number . user interface : but i i i think that the user would like wou would like to associate the channel or call the channel rather than than the numbers . marketing : yeah something , some code . user interface : you say numbe channel number five of the tv correspond to something else in the channel . industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : so some people may want to say , i want to see this channel . industrial designer : mm mm . well i marketing : that will be too big . project manager : or just marketing : and it will be difficult for the vocabulary also . user interface : yeah . check with the v r_ and d_ department the capability of recogniser . project manager : it 's difficult to to just say the the name of the channel . it will be difficult to say just the name of the channel . user interface : uh ? project manager : because you have to s t uh a ch user interface : well , it 's convenient for the user . project manager : yeah but you have to to have all the name of the channel in your vocabulary . marketing : als might be you just forgot the channel name , you kno only know the number . project manager : or maybe industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then project manager : or maybe the user can create his own vocabulary , user interface : the uh uh mm . mm . project manager : just pronouncing the the name of channels and include in the vocabulary . user interface : i i think that i have mm mm i think there 's another way you can do is that uh you can uh if when the user ch press a button to choose the channel for example , then what you can do is that the you can make the tv screen to split them into small little little squares of images where you you you have a snapshot of every channel , so let 's say it 's a four by four matrix of the images , so now what you do is f looking at the all the sixteen channels available at one time , you just use the control button uh , you just you you just choose the the option you want marketing : yeah , the . user interface : and then you just hit the button and then you go to that channel . so project manager : or lets the user create his own vocabulary of channel . user interface : mm . so you you do n't use the speech recogniser in that way . project manager : no . just you have uh in the beginning you have uh t you have to train you have to create the vocabulary by yourself . user interface : oh , okay . yeah . industrial designer : well i uh i also project manager : by associating each channel with the name or industrial designer : i i also think about uh another problem , if if there is uh more than one person who is watching tv project manager : and for each one has his own . user interface : industrial designer : the s well the the speech uh r recogniser should be able to distinguish between the two . marketing : yeah yeah , . industrial designer : because uh i remember when i was a young child with my sister we yeah we always want to w to watch different emission at the at the same time project manager : or you have to s user interface : yeah , i wan na watch this , i wan na watch that . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's a pr it could be a problem if uh if well if someone passes by when you are watching tv and say oh tv thirty and just run , s marketing : a and in the same lines we would have a one more problem . if we are using the television in the different environments , say in the factories or in the shops where there is a lot of noise and this voice commands if they fail to work , that would bring a bad name bad uh reputation for our company . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : so i think we should specify some pre-requirements if we want to use a voice commands , say that it should be used in an silent homely environment or s something . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or we can switch on or switch off the the special , yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right that should be an option . industrial designer : yeah that 's well i think that 's a good uh a good option because it 's simple and uh simple to implement also , so . marketing : i think these are the practical problems . so we need to take care of them in the design . project manager : maybe we 'll discuss them in next meeting . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . good morning everybody . industrial designer : good morning . project manager : oh , everybody is not ready . user interface : uh almost . project manager : alright . user interface : ready . project manager : okay , let 's go . so , we 're here today to to have our first kick-off meeting about uh this new project we 're going to tak to talk about in a few minutes . um so i will be uh sebastian the project manager . um you are the user interface : i 'm uh michael . i 'm the user interface designer . project manager : okay . marketing : hi i 'm guillermo . i 'm the marketing expert . industrial designer : and i am hemant , the industrial designer . project manager : okay , very good . thanks for being here . um so let 's have a look to the the agenda . so , we are going to go through this agenda uh and mainly first to uh to make to to be used to the tools uh available in this nice and smart meeting room we have here . um then we 'll go to uh the plans for project and have general discussions about it . so , the goal of this project is to uh developed a new remote control . um it should be original , trendy , and also user friendly . as usual we will follow the the project method um that we are using in the in our company . it is in three step as you know . first the functional design . the second 's a conceptual design , and then the detailed design . during each step uh of each design we wi you will work uh s separately , individually on uh your specific tasks and will m we will meet to um to discuss and take decisions about uh what you 've you 've you did and what uh we will do next . so first , we have to to train ourself with all the um the tools availables in the in this nice meeting room and uh particularly the the white board so uh we are going to go through the white board and take some um s some notes or do some drawings . so who want to start ? mister . user interface : ah well if no one else wants to , yeah . okay so , want me to draw my favourite animal . project manager : user interface : let 's see . well , i do n't really have a favourite animal , but um project manager : you have one in mind ? user interface : uh i think i have one in mind , so uh i 'm gon na about the uh spider because you can actually draw it pretty well in the corner of a white board . the spider has a spider lives in a web and uh it has eight legs , and uh it can move all about the web in two dimensions . unless it 's a three dimensional web which y they have sometimes . there are some spiders that live in like that have like uh kind of a a big ball of a of a web . and uh the other thing is some spiders can actually uh fly like uh they have uh they let out like uh a stream of like the web building material but it 's it acts like a parachute so they can actually kind of go and find new uh build a new web somewhere else . so i think they did this in uh in charlotte 's web that movie that little uh well it 's actually a book first but uh um at the end all the the spiders kinda flew away . project manager : okay . user interface : so , that 's my animal . project manager : th thank you . very interesting . guillermo you want to ? marketing : 'kay i dunno why , but when i was a child i i wanted to be a a panther project manager : marketing : not a pink panther , industrial designer : but do n't you think it 's very difficult to draw a panther ? marketing : or maybe yes . project manager : it would be very funny for us . marketing : uh yeah yeah . industrial designer : so bad i do n't like it . marketing : okay it 's a friendly panther . user interface : industrial designer : user interface : maybe it 's happy 'cause it just ate someone . marketing : yeah maybe . user interface : marketing : um . actually , honestly i i i dunno what 's what 's his it 's be behaviour , i dunno if if it 's the male who who hunts or it 's the female uh , i i i have watched that lions di did n't hunt it 's the the female lions who who hunt , so but i like it because it 's fast , and it 's black as well , so it can he it can hide itself very easily and it 's it 's it looks like um powerful , strong , uh i dunno . i i watch a a film about a black panther when i was a child and i was in that age when everything was shocking me a lot . user interface : project manager : okay . thank you . marketing : okay . project manager : hemant . industrial designer : um sure . project manager : user interface : so you do n't like pink panthers ? marketing : i like it . project manager : industrial designer : oh yeah . thanks . this lapel is coming out once in a while . it 's not very strong . okay . so , not the favourite animal , but i think i 'll draw elephant . project manager : industrial designer : i 'll try to draw elephant . it 's a problem . okay , thanks . okay so , elephant goes like this , and then it has four feet . i do n't know whether there 's any dist there should be any distance or not , but i think this is the easiest . and then we have it 's trunk . and yep something like this . project manager : industrial designer : an eye , cute . marketing : industrial designer : yeah , so project manager : poor elephant . industrial designer : and sometimes they have a hump . it seems that uh elephants are pretty friendly and they they have one very important way a different way of walking . so when they walk , wherever they are going to put their first feet , the second feet will always be . when they 'll come to that position the second , the third feet will be there . that 's the way they walk . and that 's very peculiar about them . none of the other animals walk like this . and they are very useful to human beings . at least few few hundred years ago when there was no means of transportations or something , or when they had to carry huge um loads from one place to another , elephants were very useful . and they are found in um usually the warm countries . and um they are the biggest terrestrial animal . that 's what i know about them . so , that 's what i wanted to tell about elephants . user interface : so is this uh an indian or an african elephant , 'cause you have n't drawn the ears ? industrial designer : there are two kind of uh yeah , they are very different , indian and african elephants . so indian elephant is having one bump , i think , and the african have two . and then there 's a difference in the trunk of the animals , these elephants who are indian and so at some for some elephants it 's the trunk is having one do we have some message there ? project manager : yes . we have to i have to catch you , industrial designer : wind up project manager : sorry . we have to to go through the meeting . industrial designer : ? okay , some other time . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . project manager : thank you . user interface : we can discuss that off-line . project manager : yeah we 'll discuss a f a fly or do we 'll do another meeting abo on elephants . industrial designer : thanks . project manager : so user interface : project manager : so another important part of the project is about money , uh and about so about finances . so we should target selling price of twenty-five euro for this remote control and uh we have um which which would generate a profit of of um fifty million euros , okay . and we should target the inter an international market . user interface : so could i just ask one question , um is this a stand-alone unit that we 're gon na be selling ? so it 's gon na be you already have a tv but you 're buying an extra remote control for it or something ? project manager : o this is the next topic we have to discuss exactly , user interface : okay , alright . project manager : so let 's go to it . so um we should decide which kind of remote control we want to uh we want to uh we want to go . should be should should it be um specific remote control to some specific device ? should it be a universal one ? and uh etcetera . so um so i 'm waiting for your for your inputs very quickly because we have only three three minutes to go . user interface : okay well , so , it seems the the first thing that they 've kinda specified is the price like based on how much profit we wan na make , which seems to a kind of a little strange if we do n't know what the the product is yet , but i guess if that 's if that 's the requirement that we need to to design the the product to actually fit that that price bracket so , i guess we 're gon na need to find out what 's actually you know , what people ar are willing to pay for um what kind of product they 're expecting for twenty-five euro project manager : okay . user interface : because it seems quite a lot for a remote control , project manager : okay i think this is more a job to our user interface : so it 's project manager : market person yeah . industrial designer : marketing person . user interface : yeah . project manager : so it should be the topic of maybe of the next meeting just to to have an overview of this and uh in which direction we should go . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so we need to close the meeting . uh we 'll have a new meeting soon and uh so the work every every of you ha have t d to do . so um you have to work on the on the working design , you have to uh work on the technical functions , and uh you have to work on us user requirements specs , alright ? marketing : yeah . project manager : um you will receive some information by emails , i as usual . thanks for coming today . user interface : okay . project manager : thanks . industrial designer : thanks . </s>
<s> summarize the project plan . </s> industrial designer : good morning . project manager : oh , everybody is not ready . user interface : uh almost . project manager : alright . user interface : ready . project manager : okay , let 's go . so , we 're here today to to have our first kick-off meeting about uh this new project we 're going to tak to talk about in a few minutes . um so i will be uh sebastian the project manager . um you are the user interface : i 'm uh michael . i 'm the user interface designer . project manager : okay . marketing : hi i 'm guillermo . i 'm the marketing expert . industrial designer : and i am hemant , the industrial designer . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on favourite animals . </s> user interface : ah well if no one else wants to , yeah . okay so , want me to draw my favourite animal . project manager : user interface : let 's see . well , i do n't really have a favourite animal , but um project manager : you have one in mind ? user interface : uh i think i have one in mind , so uh i 'm gon na about the uh spider because you can actually draw it pretty well in the corner of a white board . the spider has a spider lives in a web and uh it has eight legs , and uh it can move all about the web in two dimensions . unless it 's a three dimensional web which y they have sometimes . there are some spiders that live in like that have like uh kind of a a big ball of a of a web . and uh the other thing is some spiders can actually uh fly like uh they have uh they let out like uh a stream of like the web building material but it 's it acts like a parachute so they can actually kind of go and find new uh build a new web somewhere else . so i think they did this in uh in charlotte 's web that movie that little uh well it 's actually a book first but uh um at the end all the the spiders kinda flew away . project manager : okay . user interface : so , that 's my animal . project manager : th thank you . very interesting . guillermo you want to ? marketing : 'kay i dunno why , but when i was a child i i wanted to be a a panther project manager : marketing : not a pink panther , industrial designer : but do n't you think it 's very difficult to draw a panther ? marketing : or maybe yes . project manager : it would be very funny for us . marketing : uh yeah yeah . industrial designer : so bad i do n't like it . marketing : okay it 's a friendly panther . user interface : industrial designer : user interface : maybe it 's happy 'cause it just ate someone . marketing : yeah maybe . user interface : marketing : um . actually , honestly i i i dunno what 's what 's his it 's be behaviour , i dunno if if it 's the male who who hunts or it 's the female uh , i i i have watched that lions di did n't hunt it 's the the female lions who who hunt , so but i like it because it 's fast , and it 's black as well , so it can he it can hide itself very easily and it 's it 's it looks like um powerful , strong , uh i dunno . i i watch a a film about a black panther when i was a child and i was in that age when everything was shocking me a lot . user interface : project manager : okay . thank you . marketing : okay . project manager : hemant . industrial designer : um sure . project manager : user interface : so you do n't like pink panthers ? marketing : i like it . project manager : industrial designer : oh yeah . thanks . this lapel is coming out once in a while . it 's not very strong . okay . so , not the favourite animal , but i think i 'll draw elephant . project manager : industrial designer : i 'll try to draw elephant . it 's a problem . okay , thanks . okay so , elephant goes like this , and then it has four feet . i do n't know whether there 's any dist there should be any distance or not , but i think this is the easiest . and then we have it 's trunk . and yep something like this . project manager : industrial designer : an eye , cute . marketing : industrial designer : yeah , so project manager : poor elephant . industrial designer : and sometimes they have a hump . it seems that uh elephants are pretty friendly and they they have one very important way a different way of walking . so when they walk , wherever they are going to put their first feet , the second feet will always be . when they 'll come to that position the second , the third feet will be there . that 's the way they walk . and that 's very peculiar about them . none of the other animals walk like this . and they are very useful to human beings . at least few few hundred years ago when there was no means of transportations or something , or when they had to carry huge um loads from one place to another , elephants were very useful . and they are found in um usually the warm countries . and um they are the biggest terrestrial animal . that 's what i know about them . so , that 's what i wanted to tell about elephants . user interface : so is this uh an indian or an african elephant , 'cause you have n't drawn the ears ? industrial designer : there are two kind of uh yeah , they are very different , indian and african elephants . so indian elephant is having one bump , i think , and the african have two . and then there 's a difference in the trunk of the animals , these elephants who are indian and so at some for some elephants it 's the trunk is having one do we have some message there ? project manager : yes . we have to i have to catch you , industrial designer : wind up project manager : sorry . we have to to go through the meeting . industrial designer : ? okay , some other time . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . project manager : thank you . user interface : we can discuss that off-line . project manager : yeah we 'll discuss a f a fly or do we 'll do another meeting abo on elephants . industrial designer : thanks . project manager : so </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about project finance . </s> project manager : so another important part of the project is about money , uh and about so about finances . so we should target selling price of twenty-five euro for this remote control and uh we have um which which would generate a profit of of um fifty million euros , okay . and we should target the inter an international market . user interface : so could i just ask one question , um is this a stand-alone unit that we 're gon na be selling ? so it 's gon na be you already have a tv but you 're buying an extra remote control for it or something ? project manager : o this is the next topic we have to discuss exactly , user interface : okay , alright . project manager : so let 's go to it . so um we should decide which kind of remote control we want to uh we want to uh we want to go . should be should should it be um specific remote control to some specific device ? should it be a universal one ? and uh etcetera . so um so i 'm waiting for your for your inputs very quickly because we have only three three minutes to go . user interface : okay well , so , it seems the the first thing that they 've kinda specified is the price like based on how much profit we wan na make , which seems to a kind of a little strange if we do n't know what the the product is yet , but i guess if that 's if that 's the requirement that we need to to design the the product to actually fit that that price bracket so , i guess we 're gon na need to find out what 's actually you know , what people ar are willing to pay for um what kind of product they 're expecting for twenty-five euro project manager : okay . user interface : because it seems quite a lot for a remote control , project manager : okay i think this is more a job to our user interface : so it 's project manager : market person yeah . industrial designer : marketing person . user interface : yeah . project manager : so it should be the topic of maybe of the next meeting just to to have an overview of this and uh in which direction we should go . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so we need to close the meeting . uh we 'll have a new meeting soon and uh so the work every every of you ha have t d to do . so um you have to work on the on the working design , you have to uh work on the technical functions , and uh you have to work on us user requirements specs , alright ? marketing : yeah . project manager : um you will receive some information by emails , i as usual . thanks for coming today . user interface : okay . project manager : thanks . industrial designer : thanks . </s>
<s> what did the group think of drawing a panther ? </s> project manager : th thank you . very interesting . guillermo you want to ? marketing : 'kay i dunno why , but when i was a child i i wanted to be a a panther project manager : marketing : not a pink panther , industrial designer : but do n't you think it 's very difficult to draw a panther ? marketing : or maybe yes . project manager : it would be very funny for us . marketing : uh yeah yeah . industrial designer : so bad i do n't like it . marketing : okay it 's a friendly panther . user interface : industrial designer : user interface : maybe it 's happy 'cause it just ate someone . marketing : yeah maybe . </s>
<s> why did industrial designer think that there were some messages when industrial designer was drawing the elephant ? </s> industrial designer : i 'll try to draw elephant . it 's a problem . okay , thanks . okay so , elephant goes like this , and then it has four feet . i do n't know whether there 's any dist there should be any distance or not , but i think this is the easiest . and then we have it 's trunk . and yep something like this . project manager : industrial designer : an eye , cute . marketing : industrial designer : yeah , so project manager : poor elephant . industrial designer : and sometimes they have a hump . it seems that uh elephants are pretty friendly and they they have one very important way a different way of walking . so when they walk , wherever they are going to put their first feet , the second feet will always be . when they 'll come to that position the second , the third feet will be there . that 's the way they walk . and that 's very peculiar about them . none of the other animals walk like this . and they are very useful to human beings . at least few few hundred years ago when there was no means of transportations or something , or when they had to carry huge um loads from one place to another , elephants were very useful . and they are found in um usually the warm countries . and um they are the biggest terrestrial animal . that 's what i know about them . so , that 's what i wanted to tell about elephants . user interface : so is this uh an indian or an african elephant , 'cause you have n't drawn the ears ? industrial designer : there are two kind of uh yeah , they are very different , indian and african elephants . so indian elephant is having one bump , i think , and the african have two . and then there 's a difference in the trunk of the animals , these elephants who are indian and so at some for some elephants it 's the trunk is having one do we have some message there ? project manager : yes . we have to i have to catch you , industrial designer : wind up project manager : sorry . we have to to go through the meeting . industrial designer : ? okay , some other time . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . project manager : thank you . user interface : we can discuss that off-line . project manager : yeah we 'll discuss a f a fly or do we 'll do another meeting abo on elephants . </s>
<s> why did project manager say that money was an important part of the project ? </s> project manager : so another important part of the project is about money , uh and about so about finances . so we should target selling price of twenty-five euro for this remote control and uh we have um which which would generate a profit of of um fifty million euros , okay . and we should target the inter an international market . user interface : so could i just ask one question , um is this a stand-alone unit that we 're gon na be selling ? so it 's gon na be you already have a tv but you 're buying an extra remote control for it or something ? project manager : o this is the next topic we have to discuss exactly , user interface : okay , alright . project manager : so let 's go to it . so um we should decide which kind of remote control we want to uh we want to uh we want to go . should be should should it be um specific remote control to some specific device ? should it be a universal one ? and uh etcetera . so um so i 'm waiting for your for your inputs very quickly because we have only three three minutes to go . user interface : okay well , so , it seems the the first thing that they 've kinda specified is the price like based on how much profit we wan na make , which seems to a kind of a little strange if we do n't know what the the product is yet , but i guess if that 's if that 's the requirement that we need to to design the the product to actually fit that that price bracket so , i guess we 're gon na need to find out what 's actually you know , what people ar are willing to pay for um what kind of product they 're expecting for twenty-five euro project manager : okay . user interface : because it seems quite a lot for a remote control , project manager : okay i think this is more a job to our user interface : so it 's project manager : market person yeah . industrial designer : marketing person . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : is that alright now ? okay . sorry ? okay , everybody all set to start the meeting ? okay , we 've got half an hour for this one um to uh discuss the um functional design . marketing : could you plug me in ? user interface : marketing : okay . thanks . project manager : all ready to go ? okay . marketing : okay . project manager : um so hopefully you 've all been working away , and i 've put the minutes of the last meeting in the project folder . um so i guess just to to recap on uh what we did last time . um kind of uh got to know each other a little bit and uh got familiar with all the equipment and started to discuss um a bit about the project , you know , cost-wise how much how much money we had to s um just want to tell you that you have three new requirements , which is the the first one is that um uh the company 's decided that teletext is outdated uh because of how popular the internet is . nobody uses teletext very much anymore , so we do n't really need to consider that in the functionality of the of the remote control . marketing : 'kay . project manager : um they 've also suggested that we um we only use the remote control to control the television , not the v_c_r_ , d_v_d_ or anything else . i think the worry is that if the project becomes too complex then it 'll affect um how long it takes us to get it into into production , the time to market . so um , we 're just gon na keep it simple and it 'll just control the tv . marketing : okay . project manager : and the other thing was that the company want the corporate colour and slogan to be implemented in the new design . um i 'm not entirely sure what the corporate colour is . it might be yellow , because there seems to be a lot of yellow everywhere . marketing : and the slogan , like the actual written slogan , or just to embody the idea of the slogan ? project manager : well that 's the thing , i 'm i 'm not sure um uh th because on the the company website , uh what does it say uh something marketing : 'bout putting the fashion in electronics . industrial designer : mm yeah . project manager : yeah , i mean do they is that something they want actually written on it , 'cause it 's quite long . um or yeah , just the idea , but i 'm not sure . so that 's something we can discuss as well . so those are the three things , just not to worry about teletext , uh only control the tv , and um and uh incorporate the uh colour and slogan of the company . um so is everybody okay with any of that , or do you want me to recap at all ? industrial designer : nope , we 're all set . project manager : right um , time for presentations then . who would like to go first ? user interface : i 'll go first . project manager : okay , cool . marketing : sure . user interface : alright um , can i st steal this from the back of your laptop ? uh project manager : oh yeah , of course , yeah . g go on ahead . marketing : user interface : so this is the technical functions design . um right to do the um the design i have i 've had a look online , i 've had a look at the homepage , which has given us um some insp inspiration from previous products . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um i 've had a look at the previous products to see what they offer and um i would like to ask you guys for um your ideas about the design at the end of the meeting . um unfortunately we 're not allowed to talk outside the meeting room , so project manager : okay . marketing : right . user interface : um , having a look at the existing products , i found out that um it tends to come in sort of two extremes , there 's either um a very complicated one that 's got lots of buttons , lots of colours , very confusing , you do n't know what you 're doing . um in that case the the labelling tends to be very bad . um there 's an example i 'll show you at the end , um sh show you now . uh project manager : alright . user interface : here um the button there and there . this one 's prog . sorry . that one 's perg and that one 's prog , and it does n't really tell you what it does . um , not sure if you had a a look at the other um control in that example . um it 's a very simple one . it 's got only the basic functions mm but um it 's the same size as the the hard to use one . uh it looked a bit clunky . they 're very big and not very much use for buttons . um , and it 's just very hard to access the advanced functions . there 's there 's nothing for instance for a slow motion button . um , my own preferences , i prefer the the clunky one . um it 's very easy to use . um but unfortunately it does lack the advanced functions which i i quite like having on the controls . um so i believe the the advanced functions should maybe be hidden in a drawer , or something like tha from the bottom of it . so , now i 'd like to ask for your preferences . um not sure of how long we 've got , uh project manager : um . well we can chat away for uh for five minutes or so i think at at most . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : just a couple of minutes anyway . marketing : m yeah , like a lot of a lot of what i 've um read and prepared for this meeting fits in really closely with what with what craig 's just gone over . so in part i could i could give you some of my personal preferences but i could also th add some to this which is just about sort of um sort of market research . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but anyway , project manager : shall we sh well we 'll stick to kind of your area for now . marketing : um we might come to that later . industrial designer : which which is the clunky one , the one on left or on the right ? . . user interface : um , the clunky one is the one on the right . industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah . marketing : um clunky in what sense , like um h heavier ? larger ? user interface : um i think it 's supposed to be the same size , but um it 's got much fewer buttons . it 's , you know , it 's very spread out marketing : i see , so it 's more just basic . project manager : looks kind of yeah . user interface : and kind of you know marketing : right , okay . user interface : , i get the idea it 'd be sort of about this size . got very few buttons on it and marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . sure . project manager : well i think it 's a valid point . i mean like the one on the left looks quite um quite complicated , and that p_r_t_ p p_r_o_t_ thing is incredibly confusing . um so i see i see why yo you know you might prefer the simpler design , but yeah you do n't want to lose out on , you know , what it does , so maybe you know marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : you know you get a lot of remote controls where you kind of flip the thing open , industrial designer : project manager : i think that 's a good idea . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think it 's a good idea . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : um , do we have any functions that um we 'd want on it ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean so far i 've got um on and off , um switch the channel up and down , and put the volume up and down . project manager : mm-hmm . uh-huh . user interface : um they 're just the the very basics you could use for a tv . project manager : uh-huh , and then actual numbers for channels as well , yeah . user interface : okay . um , you say that 's a h a required one or a requested one ? would you like marketing : which was that ? user interface : um the channels like the the numbers on thing , um marketing : up the numbers , or the up down ? project manager : god , i wou i would say that 's required , marketing : project manager : i mean there 's no way anybody 's gon na buy a remote control these days when if you ca n't actually individually select channels , marketing : yeah . project manager : i mean would anybody disagree with that ? marketing : yeah . project manager : um , what else , uh so do n't need to worry about teletext , marketing : project manager : do n't need to worry about v_c_r_ , uh any kind of like display controls at all do you think we need to worry about , marketing : we do n't ? no ? project manager : you know like brightness and contrast ? marketing : yeah . well i think i think es essentially what we 're doing right now is we 're categorising . we 're saying well we want this to be a product that offers all the sort of more tricky features but we want them to be in another area ? is that right ? project manager : yeah . marketing : is that what we 're we 're doing ? user interface : um , yeah . marketing : we 're kind of like sorting them an or are we actually eliminating things we just do n't want the product to have ? user interface : um project manager : i think are you are you maybe kind of thinking what we absolutely have to have and what would be nice ? user interface : uh , to start with um sort of a bit both , um we need to find out exactly what we have to have project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um and after that we can add things if they 're possible . project manager : okay , right . well , do you wan na maybe just , at this point decide on what we absolutely must have as a p as a function of this . marketing : yeah . project manager : um , so so far , just to recap you 've got volume and channel control and user interface : there 's um on and off , um volume and channel , and skip to certain channels with the numbers . project manager : right okay . um marketing : well , one one way i would look at this um would be that we a approach the different controls in terms of um like control types , so that for the user it 's very clear what they want to do where they go . project manager : mm-hmm yeah . marketing : uh and also think maybe a little bit about sorta w w what would just wan na be acc easily accessible . for example if we had audio controls , those could be something people set up very rarely . maybe they 're un they 're they 're they 're in a little area but covered up um , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : things like channel and volume um are used all the time , so we just have them right out on top , um very just very sort of self-explanatory . um so maybe we need to think about having three or more groupings of controls , you know like one which are just the the habitual ones that should be right within your natural grip . and others that are uh also available industrial designer : marketing : and then others that are concealed . project manager : okay . marketing : something like that . project manager : uh well , just to to wrap up quickly on this this little section have i just lost oh no . um , uh do you think maybe that 's the only kind of uh essential requirements , and then maybe just things that would be nice if it could do would be things like audio set up and display set up and things like that , maybe like a mute button , that sort of thing . any of you anything to add to that at all ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i 'll add it later , i guess the presentation . project manager : okay , right . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : um okay , industrial designer : project manager : if we can move on to next presentation then please . um marketing : sure . project manager : do you wan na user interface : do you want to switch places ? marketing : can this can this pl reach ? can this plug come across ? industrial designer : no . no . project manager : probably not , actually . marketing : so why do n't i just pick up and move then . project manager : yeah . marketing : here , i 'll just why do n't i just user interface : just just switch them . marketing : mm er , can you go up behind me ? kinda this is so this project manager : bit complicated . it 'd be nice if everything was wireless , would n't it ? marketing : i 'm all in a knot now . industrial designer : marketing : okay . project manager : right . industrial designer : marketing : um . so i can i can say already , i dunno whether this is for good or for bad but there 'll be a lot of kind of uh redundancy in the in the the issues and the the uh the things . project manager : oh , like overlap between what you said ? marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : oh well , for all you know that that 'll happen . marketing : which is ma not necessarily a bad thing , but may what i 've already started doing is cr i created a slide in in my presentation here so um so that we kind of think well what 's the cumulative effect of what we 've taken from your ideas and and mine , because certainly i i have a hard time separating separating things completely . project manager : mm hard to know what where your role ends , yeah . marketing : obviously obviously what you 've just told me what you 've just told me impacts a lot on what um like market research mm that that i 've been project manager : okay . marketing : so how do i how do i get this up ? industrial designer : um function f_ eight . project manager : uh pr yeah , press function and f_ eight , yeah . marketing : okay . okay . alright . so f_ eight ? industrial designer : function , the blue button . next to the control on the left . yeah . marketing : oh , and f_ eight . okay . industrial designer : you have to push it together . marketing : mm-hmm . okay , i think that that 's doing it now . industrial designer : nope . try that again . marketing : uh , again ? industrial designer : wait . user interface : think maybe the the wire in the back might be loose . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah , you wan na oh oh here we go . industrial designer : yep , there we go . project manager : there you go . marketing : okay great . okay . just um before i bring this up what i 'll just say is um what i 've what i 've done is tried to collect some information so that i can then relay this to to you guys so that it 's now becomes a collective thing . and then kind of lead us in the direction of deciding , 'kay what what are our options , what should we decide and do you know what i mean , so . industrial designer : increase that 'cause we ca n't see the project manager : um marketing : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : that 's much better . project manager : right . can you um industrial designer : there you go . project manager : right , okay . marketing : okay . alright . that would be okay . so um does that make sense ? so what i basically got is i just looked into some information and sort of th tried to think about how how we could review it and how we could and what kind of decisions we could take away from it and then maybe by the end of just looking at some of these things we can think about what are our priorities . 'cause certainly there 's lots of different information to go through . so um i 'm thinking here about uh primarily about customer needs , that we start with the customer , and w you know , what they want and what are issues with with um existing products . uh to think about trends and also about try and connect that as you see with the company vision which is about fashion in electronics . um and then , as i say uh w we 'd like to prioritise our design features from this and um project manager : industrial designer : bouncing on top . marketing : dunno . okay . um . project manager : yeah . marketing : so this is what i 've found here , um a lot of this is new to me , so we 'll just read through together . um , users dislike the look and feel of current remote controls . so they find them ugly . most people find them ugly . um the vast majority would spend more money for it to look fancy as well , we 'll see later , the vast majority would spend more money for um slightly more intuitive control , such as voice recognition . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay i 'm gon na we 'll look at that in a second . um most people use only a f a very slim portion of all the controls . so i guess what we 're looking at here is people want this h technology , they tend to use the most simple controls and overall they find remote controls to be something they do n't does n't really appeal to them . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i think what we 're doing is we 're trying to take like if for me this is sorta like three different different um inspirations , you know , one is that we want uh something that 's high-tech but we want it to seem easy . and in spite of the primitive side of it and the very high-tech side , we want it to just be an appealing piece of equipment in people 's hands . um , frustrations . they get lost a lot , s as it came up in our last meeting . um , takes time to learn how to use them . this is uh why i mention when craig was uh showing us some ideas that we actually try and group controls , so d it does n't just look like a big panel , kinda like when you you look at , you know , a new computer keyboard , or something that is quite explanatory . if you want audio , if you want visual , then you have those . um and i will admit i do n't know what r_s_i_ stands for . project manager : repetitive strain injury . industrial designer : is installing a new remote control something that people marketing : uh , no , that did not come up at all . um so here here is another um sort of a a review here of the main things . i also found that most people would uh adults at least would pay more for voice recognition . now apparently we do have access to all the tech cutting edge technology in remote control . so i dunno if that 's possible we might consider getting into it . um . and and again here as we sort of move m sort of thin start thinking about how we wan na sell and market this , i think a recurring theme here is the company wants it to be wants us to make something that 's fashionable and sleek and trendy . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um people uh additionally are n't are n't liking the appearance of their products , so we wan na think about as we take all the sort of the techie features how we can um put that into a unit which is which people like . project manager : okay . marketing : you know , they like the aesthetics and the ergonomics . project manager : so want something that looks good and is easy to use , big priorities . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , so you know just c looking at what what craig um craig 's i uh ideas are s sorta tell me that maybe what we wan na do is try and um separate the different things that we wan na include in this . so if we do say well we want there to be all the technology will we try and make that almost be like optional technology . you know , it 's like like i find a lot of tvs these days , something really like about 'em is if you wan na just turn 'em on and off you can , but they have little panels where you click and there 's just like tons of features you go through . project manager : mm . so it you wan na group all the different kind of types of functions together , you know . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . that 's s that 's sort of the um but i i 'm my hope here is that i 'm putting out this information so that we can then say okay , well how do we collectively move on with it . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . marketing : um i i have n't brought out one specific marketing idea , although my sense is that what we should try and think about is what are the current trends in materials and shapes and styles , and then use that . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but not let that confine us technologically . project manager : okay . right . marketing : so alright ? any um comments on all of that ? project manager : well , um one of the things that we have to decide on by the end of the meeting is who we 're gon na be um who 's our our target audience , our target market . marketing : that 's uh project manager : um , so if we want something that that looks good and is easy to use , but has y is fairly powerful product , whatever , who do we really want to aim that at ? marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : i mean marketing : where 's the money , maybe . project manager : yeah , who wou who would have the money to spend . well i if if like twenty five euro is our is our selling price then you can imagine , marketing : yeah . and who watches tv . mm-hmm . project manager : well i do n't i 'm not really sure how much that will retail at . but you want it 's somebody who 's not gon na just use the remote that comes with their telly , i suppose , they 're gon na actually go out and buy one . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so , who do you think we 're aiming this at ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um , i think it 'll be the mid range to the high end market , in terms of people . 'cause twenty five euros for a remote , how much is that lo locally in pounds ? project manager : it 's about sixteen , seventeen pounds , i think . industrial designer : is that too is that a lot of money to buy an extra remote or a replacement remote ? project manager : yeah , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um so maybe not the high end range , but maybe middle , middle up-ish . kind of . project manager : okay . industrial designer : you know how much ? i dunno i guess you pay , what , ten ten quid for a remote ? project manager : okay . industrial designer : like a simple replacement , right . i mean if you lost your remote and the first thing you just wan na go out and get , project manager : yeah . yeah , marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : would you how much would you pay ? marketing : this this kinda touches on your comments there , david . these are the age groups which we have information on industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and these are this is a table of h what people would pay more for a certain feature . project manager : okay marketing : just gives us a rough idea of where the w the will to spend money on tv equipment is . project manager : okay . marketing : mostly focused around the twenty five age group . project manager : yeah , so do you think we 're we 're aiming at a fairly young market then ? marketing : sort of young professional , kind of . mm-hmm project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : um project manager : um do you think then uh voice recognition is something we should really seriously consider ? what what do you think , craig ? user interface : well , did you not say it was the the adults that were going for the the voice recognition ? sort of the the older group . marketing : uh , yeah , it 's the yep . it does it does fit with the market that we 're sort of identifying , project manager : n yeah . marketing : in terms of project manager : i think we are gon na have to narrow it down , to say let 's target these people and give them what they want marketing : okay . project manager : and 'cause you know , there needs to be some kind of selling point to it . marketing : yeah . sure . sure . project manager : so um anybody anything there to add marketing : yeah . project manager : just kind of young professionals , uh th like if we are going to include speech recognition , it 's kind of between fifteen and thirty five seems to be like a really high response to that . so we could say that was our target . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i i think twenty five to thirty five is is is fair to add that in as a group as well project manager : yeah . industrial designer : because that 's more than half your group of people who are willing to at least try and use your technology . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , so fifteen to thirty five , look fairly young . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : you know , they have bit of expendable income to spend on this sort of thing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think perhaps that age group is significant as well because those are people who use the computer , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : who are familiar with their with computers in in their everyday work . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think people who are maybe about i would n't say thirty five , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : but people who are about forty-ish and above now would not be so dependent and reliant on a computer or a mobile phone or something like that . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . but yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , sure . industrial designer : so these are people who are gadgety , right ? project manager : so marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : people who are u growing up used to , you know in schools and in universities , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : when you go on to their working lives , people who would you know regular project manager : yeah . so they 'll not sh not shy away from something quite high-tech . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . mm . project manager : that that 's that 's a good point . marketing : yeah . project manager : um okay , so um industrial designer : project manager : so shall we make the decision uh to include speech recognition marketing : if we can . industrial designer : i i think one thing we should try not to avoid is not to say we have to use speech recognition right now , project manager : if we can . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because um , based on what you 've go y everybody 's saying , right , you want something simple . project manager : okay . why is that ? industrial designer : you want basic stuff and you want something that 's easy to use . speech recognition might not be the simplest thing for somebody to use . marketing : right . project manager : okay . marketing : could it be an on off thing ? like if you want it on industrial designer : but what i 'm saying is that we 're we 're trying to lock ourselves into a s particular kind of technology , project manager : where you can activate it and deactivate it ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : rather than focusing on on exactly what are the features that we 're gon na say , and then , you know , say speech recognition is good for this , speech recognition is not good for this . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . sure . industrial designer : so maybe we should marketing : sure . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i suggest that we think about speech recognition , marketing : yeah . sure . industrial designer : anyway it 's a it 's something that can be used to fulfil a function , but at end of the day we do n't look at the technology , but we look at the function first . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : sure . yep . project manager : uh okay , well do you wan na um give us your presentation industrial designer : okay , sure . project manager : and then then we can i do n't know um might have been a good idea to all deliver our presentations and then discuss , but this is this is how we 're marketing : yeah , it 's good well it 's good to get ideas out while they 're fresh in mind . project manager : yeah , exactly , yeah . marketing : um project manager : oh it 's something that 's just occurred to me as well is if we make it um speech reco if we incorporate speech recognition , that 's appealing to people um maybe with a physical disability as well . marketing : not yeah . and not losing . and also it helps in terms of people not losing this , project manager : yeah . marketing : you know they they 're saying oh it 's i lose it in the couch . project manager : yeah . marketing : like we 're kind of what we 're b sort of getting in into here is mating different uh design features together project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : that they user interface : i reckon one problem with speech recognition is um i 've actually seen one of them used and uh the technology that was in that one was n't particularly amazing , so you end up yelling at the control for hours . industrial designer : project manager : really ? user interface : channel up . marketing : right . user interface : marketing : oh really , you 've seen one before . project manager : do you think maybe we need like further advances in that kind of area until it 's worthwhile incorporating it though ? user interface : um i think it 'd probably quite expensive to put in . industrial designer : sorry , do you mind passing me my notepad . project manager : mm . course not . industrial designer : thanks . cool , project manager : there you go . industrial designer : um . okay . um . project manager : right . industrial designer : well this is just the working design um . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well this is just what how i would go about it . um i guess i try to define like what we 're doing now , try to define what we 're trying to get done . um i think in a practical way , we kind of know what it is . marketing : right . industrial designer : we 've used it , we 're familiar with it , but we 're we ca n't n we have n't narrowed down um exactly what the things we 're trying to fulfil , like besides the basics , i think back in the back of our minds we know what the basics are . has to change channels , has to change volume , but in like specifics , right , which one of the basics are you trying to target . um are there certain parts of the basics that are more important or less important than the basics ? marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and i just the idea is just to get everybody to um i usually have a have have a design that 's there as a basic , so , you know , things that to start everything going . but i guess everybody does have some idea , so i do n't think um there 's a need for that . um okay this finding things is a little bit confusing , so i 'll go into the diagram first . it just explains how the process goes through , from a project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : from the basic technology point of view , the basic steps that you need um in the diagram and in this slide probably works better . um okay , you need some power source . 'kay , a battery or something , to keep it going . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and that power source is important because it ties you down to um how long the device will last . um it ties you down perhaps a bit later on in terms of the technologies project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : um how far you can transmit the signal or the complexity of the functions that you want . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like for example , voice recognition , right . that might be constrained because that you might need to power a microphone , you might need to power other things , so that 's one perhaps constraint there . um th okay , the basic thing is there 's a user interface where people punch a button or talk into it or smile to it or blink their eyes , whatever . you know , and that um picks up an input from a user , um uh a logic a series of logic has to decide what the user is telling the device , and the device has to r you know , based on you push button a_ , so i will do something with button a_ . so maybe button a_ is the power button , okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and then it needs to be able to send the signal out to the device itself which is the receiver here . um and i think that 's about it in terms of my design um . it 's fairly general , um and i guess the purpose of this is also not to restrict you in in the way you 're thinking , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like um voice recognition , right , um , if it 's something which is important then we just add more power rather than having a thing that we do n't have enough power . so it 's not really a constraint in that sense , project manager : okay . industrial designer : but i mean these are functionally , you know , the base , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : what the technology has to do . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um so i guess the rest of it marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i think we should maybe you you wan na go back to what the functions are ? i think that 's more relevant to a discussion ? marketing : 'kay . project manager : well , do you wan do you wan na finish up your your whole presentation then ? marketing : sure . sure . industrial designer : yeah , w i 'm done . project manager : are you are you all done ? industrial designer : more or less . yeah . ps oh , it 's just putting the rest of it into words , but it 's essentially the same thing . um you have a transmitter , an input device , logic chip , project manager : okay . industrial designer : you know , stuff like that . project manager : okay . marketing : right . industrial designer : um project manager : right . marketing : and like on the means b industrial designer : i guess this would be marketing : since we 're on the topic of the technology , uh are there any like what are our options ? alright , what 's what i in is this the only way that we go about it , or are there other thin industrial designer : um , these these are n't technology options in that sense . this is just um marketing : right . industrial designer : a basic principles and basic components that are needed . marketing : the basic principle of project manager : okay . marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : for example , if you needed um if you needed to add uh a voice recognition , right , then your user interface would be split , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : right . industrial designer : broken down into more components , right , marketing : okay . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : which you have a microphone , the v_r_ and stuff like that . project manager : oh . so this just show how we 're kind of modularising the whole thing . marketing : okay . industrial designer : uh yep . yep . so each component represents one function , project manager : okay . industrial designer : but i think the basic functions are the logic , the transmitter , um and the receiver , okay , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and the power are things that you wo n't have to care about . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and those are things that based on what your user interface requires then we 'll add more functionality to it . project manager : yeah . mm-hmm . industrial designer : um there might be one other consideration which would be that the the transmission between the remote control and the tv for example . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay , um are we gon na restrict ourselves to using the traditional technologies of infra-red thing ? project manager : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : because that 's something you need to actually be physically be pointing to . right . project manager : okay . marketing : right . project manager : well well a worry that was was expressed in the new requirements was that if we made this too complex it would e it would effect um how long how long it took us to get this to market , so i th suspect it might be a good idea just to restrict our kind of our creative influence on this on the user interface and not worry so much about uh how we transmit it um because i mean it it 's tried and tested intra-red , so we could stay with tha industrial designer : there might be one other problem with the transmission , um in particular right now , since we 're talking about voice recognition . um if somebody 's gon na h talk to the device , you ideally want them to hold it to them . project manager : mm-hmm industrial designer : i it project manager : oh , yeah . industrial designer : you may not require that , marketing : right . industrial designer : but you know , um it 's it 's marketing : right . industrial designer : it 's something very natural , i guess , you know , to hold it , to signal to the user , project manager : yeah , mm-hmm . industrial designer : and push a button maybe to start s talking about it . project manager : okay . industrial designer : then you need to send the signal out , so because if you 're using infra-red , the line of sight um say the tv 's at that chair , and i 'm standing in front of here and the transmitter is here , it blocks it . project manager : mm . mm . yeah . industrial designer : so in that sense , there 's not really a restriction project manager : okay . industrial designer : but it 's something which you may have to think about later on in the process . marketing : right . industrial designer : not so much further down . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . marketing : and um just a clarification before we finish this . uh does c is our controller is it have the option of being um on a standard uh frequency as all of the other equipment , so that the one controller can control several pieces of equipment ? industrial designer : there 's there 's not much specific specific information , but i think that um one indication of infra-red mean that you 're just targeting traditional devices . because infra-red is something which everybody has . project manager : yeah . w well well we 've um marketing : okay . project manager : in the new requirement spec they said just to focus on the tv , industrial designer : marketing : just to tv , okay . project manager : so that 's what we should do for now i think . something i was wondering about was the power . marketing : okay . project manager : um , is it worth considering like having like a charging unit as opposed to just regular batteries ? i mean is that something we really want to go into , do you think , industrial designer : there 's a there 's project manager : or should we just consider running on regular batteries ? industrial designer : okay , from from a from a component point of view there 's added complexity , and you add cost to it , project manager : uh-huh . uh-huh . industrial designer : um and then there 's probably the fact that you need another physical component . you need a docking cradle , for example , for you to put it in to charge . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : or you need to get the user to plug it in . project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : okay , industrial designer : um and most users are very f use already used to the idea of buying batteries and putting it into the controller . project manager : so yeah . industrial designer : but unless the controller 's gon na consume a lot of batteries , like he 's gon na run through like twenty batteries a month , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : then i do n't think rechargeable is something we should you know , we really need to care about . project manager : okay , so just stick to to regular marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . um , right . so basically the um i 'm just gon na just recap uh what i said at the start , was that um the the whole point of this meeting was to f absolutely finalise who we 're gon na aim this at , industrial designer : project manager : and what exactly the product 's gon na do . marketing : okay . project manager : so um just to recap on marketing : okay . project manager : are we all happy about the idea of um aiming the product at um the fifteen to thirty five bracket ? um and also the funct the the actual functions of what it 's gon na do . marketing : yeah , that 's good . project manager : do you wan na recap on that , craig ? user interface : i think we just say that it was gon na be the the most basic stuff possible . um on off , up and down channels , up and down volume and uh skip to a channel . project manager : okay , right . marketing : and is it going to include any of the uh the more advanced features , or are we gon na eliminate those ? user interface : um i think we include mute , but apart from that um i think we just we 'll go for the simpleness . industrial designer : okay , i think project manager : okay . marketing : okay . r is it is it is it s is it not an option still that we include some things just as a sort of under like sort of under a door or some project manager : yeah , it 's as optional functions . user interface : yeah . marketing : 'cause what what i 'm i 'd be a bit worried about is if someone was h had previously developed habits of expecting to control surround sound or this and that with their controller and then and then they , you know , w they get ours and w it 's does n't have that . project manager : okay . marketing : i dunno if that 'd be a problem . industrial designer : another thing that you were saying about categorising the controls ? um maybe i could suggest we we break them down into three simple categories . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : one would be audio controls , marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : one would be video controls , and the other one would be a device . marketing : okay . industrial designer : um this may not map very well to advanced functionality especially , but i think that um from a manufacturer 's point of view , from a person designing the device , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but i think from a point of view of a person using the device , you know a tv is something they see and something they hear , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um it 's something they do other things to like turn it on and turn it off . i mean like so what we could have is like three buckets , right , where we could throw things into , project manager : yeah . marketing : right . project manager : industrial designer : like if we want this feature , let 's throw it into there , and then from there decide whether it 's basic , or it 's non-basic . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i mean it might help with the visualisation . marketing : 'kay , okay . like that . okay . industrial designer : and it would actually help with the component build as well . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , right . marketing : mm okay , great . project manager : um , okay well i got ta kind of got five minutes to wrap up now . um next thing we 're doing is having lunch . whoohoo . um and then we 're gon na have thirty minutes of working on the next stage . um so i 'll be putting the minutes of this uh this meeting into the project documents folder . um so uh i guess just to just to confirm that we know what we 're doing in the next well in the thirty minutes after lunch anyway , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : um for uh our industrial designer , you 're gon na be thinking about the components concept . um user interface designer gon na be thinking about our user interface , and marketing you 're gon na be thinking about trend watching . um and you 'll all get specific instructions as well . so um i dunno , just just to to ask now if you 've got anything else you 've thought about while we 've been talking . marketing : project manager : um , do you wan na start with david . anything else to say at all ? industrial designer : mm no , not really . project manager : no , okay . andrew ? marketing : um yeah , just i just wanted to ask then before we wrap up , shall we agree for sake of um sort of clarity and when we when we r resume that we 'll u use this idea david 's proposed , where we think of these three sort of buckets and anything anything we discuss about them is sort of , okay , we 're talking about this . project manager : yeah , yeah i think that 's definitely a good idea . uh-huh . marketing : shall we do that , then ? project manager : yeah . marketing : okay , great . user interface : um just about the three buckets , um what would go in the the device functions one ? industrial designer : um things like on off . because they do n't have anything to do with what you see . i me mean in terms of picture and the entertainment value , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : you know , um so um project manager : okay . user interface : um marketing : and and channel . industrial designer : and channel . because the on off also goes , you know , like on off like power , not on off sound . marketing : right . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : not on off video . although you do n't turn off the video on your tv , but um you might wan na you know turn off the sound , project manager : okay . industrial designer : say you wan na pick up the phone , there 's a mute button , right , so you you have you have a choice of putting it on to um others or a device . project manager : okay . industrial designer : device is basically anything which we ca n't categorise , right . we put it out . project manager : okay , so you 're gon na have um audio which is gon na be like you know your bass settings and actual volume hi marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , anything to do with what you hear , right . you you put that into audio . project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and then video is anything that you can see . project manager : okay , and then visual marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , so brightness , contrast , things like that , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um . yep . project manager : and then just actual device things , marketing : colour , yeah . project manager : like what channel you 're watching , turning on an off , marketing : sure . sure . project manager : stuff like that . marketing : okay . project manager : okay , um marketing : and then k i suppose quite likely what would happen is in the d device category there might be some which are just like the habitual standard and then others which are maybe a bit more industrial designer : like random which we have no other place to put , but we need it somewhere there . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . sure , okay . okay . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um even even if it does n't map very clearly what happens is that people at least have some in their mind . project manager : okay . industrial designer : it 's easy to use , i think that 's one thing that um and i guess from the component point of view it 's easy to build as well project manager : okay . industrial designer : 'cause things are like fixed . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : um so yeah , i guess just things to think about are you know like the fact it 's got ta look good , industrial designer : project manager : because of who we 're we 're , you know , targeting this at . um something maybe kind of quirky in design maybe . make it kind of ergonomic kind of to hold , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : you know , things like that . um , so i guess i guess that 's it . that 's the meeting over . marketing : great . project manager : whoohoo . marketing : then we get to go find out what was picked up for lunch for us . </s>
<s> summarize the presentation on market inspirations . </s> project manager : if we can move on to next presentation then please . um marketing : sure . project manager : do you wan na user interface : do you want to switch places ? marketing : can this can this pl reach ? can this plug come across ? industrial designer : no . no . project manager : probably not , actually . marketing : so why do n't i just pick up and move then . project manager : yeah . marketing : here , i 'll just why do n't i just user interface : just just switch them . marketing : mm er , can you go up behind me ? kinda this is so this project manager : bit complicated . it 'd be nice if everything was wireless , would n't it ? marketing : i 'm all in a knot now . industrial designer : marketing : okay . project manager : right . industrial designer : marketing : um . so i can i can say already , i dunno whether this is for good or for bad but there 'll be a lot of kind of uh redundancy in the in the the issues and the the uh the things . project manager : oh , like overlap between what you said ? marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : oh well , for all you know that that 'll happen . marketing : which is ma not necessarily a bad thing , but may what i 've already started doing is cr i created a slide in in my presentation here so um so that we kind of think well what 's the cumulative effect of what we 've taken from your ideas and and mine , because certainly i i have a hard time separating separating things completely . project manager : mm hard to know what where your role ends , yeah . marketing : obviously obviously what you 've just told me what you 've just told me impacts a lot on what um like market research mm that that i 've been project manager : okay . marketing : so how do i how do i get this up ? industrial designer : um function f_ eight . project manager : uh pr yeah , press function and f_ eight , yeah . marketing : okay . okay . alright . so f_ eight ? industrial designer : function , the blue button . next to the control on the left . yeah . marketing : oh , and f_ eight . okay . industrial designer : you have to push it together . marketing : mm-hmm . okay , i think that that 's doing it now . industrial designer : nope . try that again . marketing : uh , again ? industrial designer : wait . user interface : think maybe the the wire in the back might be loose . marketing : okay . project manager : yeah , you wan na oh oh here we go . industrial designer : yep , there we go . project manager : there you go . marketing : okay great . okay . just um before i bring this up what i 'll just say is um what i 've what i 've done is tried to collect some information so that i can then relay this to to you guys so that it 's now becomes a collective thing . and then kind of lead us in the direction of deciding , 'kay what what are our options , what should we decide and do you know what i mean , so . industrial designer : increase that 'cause we ca n't see the project manager : um marketing : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : that 's much better . project manager : right . can you um industrial designer : there you go . project manager : right , okay . marketing : okay . alright . that would be okay . so um does that make sense ? so what i basically got is i just looked into some information and sort of th tried to think about how how we could review it and how we could and what kind of decisions we could take away from it and then maybe by the end of just looking at some of these things we can think about what are our priorities . 'cause certainly there 's lots of different information to go through . so um i 'm thinking here about uh primarily about customer needs , that we start with the customer , and w you know , what they want and what are issues with with um existing products . uh to think about trends and also about try and connect that as you see with the company vision which is about fashion in electronics . um and then , as i say uh w we 'd like to prioritise our design features from this and um project manager : industrial designer : bouncing on top . marketing : dunno . okay . um . project manager : yeah . marketing : so this is what i 've found here , um a lot of this is new to me , so we 'll just read through together . um , users dislike the look and feel of current remote controls . so they find them ugly . most people find them ugly . um the vast majority would spend more money for it to look fancy as well , we 'll see later , the vast majority would spend more money for um slightly more intuitive control , such as voice recognition . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay i 'm gon na we 'll look at that in a second . um most people use only a f a very slim portion of all the controls . so i guess what we 're looking at here is people want this h technology , they tend to use the most simple controls and overall they find remote controls to be something they do n't does n't really appeal to them . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i think what we 're doing is we 're trying to take like if for me this is sorta like three different different um inspirations , you know , one is that we want uh something that 's high-tech but we want it to seem easy . and in spite of the primitive side of it and the very high-tech side , we want it to just be an appealing piece of equipment in people 's hands . um , frustrations . they get lost a lot , s as it came up in our last meeting . um , takes time to learn how to use them . this is uh why i mention when craig was uh showing us some ideas that we actually try and group controls , so d it does n't just look like a big panel , kinda like when you you look at , you know , a new computer keyboard , or something that is quite explanatory . if you want audio , if you want visual , then you have those . um and i will admit i do n't know what r_s_i_ stands for . project manager : repetitive strain injury . industrial designer : is installing a new remote control something that people marketing : uh , no , that did not come up at all . um so here here is another um sort of a a review here of the main things . i also found that most people would uh adults at least would pay more for voice recognition . now apparently we do have access to all the tech cutting edge technology in remote control . so i dunno if that 's possible we might consider getting into it . um . and and again here as we sort of move m sort of thin start thinking about how we wan na sell and market this , i think a recurring theme here is the company wants it to be wants us to make something that 's fashionable and sleek and trendy . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um people uh additionally are n't are n't liking the appearance of their products , so we wan na think about as we take all the sort of the techie features how we can um put that into a unit which is which people like . project manager : okay . marketing : you know , they like the aesthetics and the ergonomics . project manager : so want something that looks good and is easy to use , big priorities . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , so you know just c looking at what what craig um craig 's i uh ideas are s sorta tell me that maybe what we wan na do is try and um separate the different things that we wan na include in this . so if we do say well we want there to be all the technology will we try and make that almost be like optional technology . you know , it 's like like i find a lot of tvs these days , something really like about 'em is if you wan na just turn 'em on and off you can , but they have little panels where you click and there 's just like tons of features you go through . project manager : mm . so it you wan na group all the different kind of types of functions together , you know . marketing : yeah . project manager : that 's i think it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah . that 's s that 's sort of the um but i i 'm my hope here is that i 'm putting out this information so that we can then say okay , well how do we collectively move on with it . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . marketing : um i i have n't brought out one specific marketing idea , although my sense is that what we should try and think about is what are the current trends in materials and shapes and styles , and then use that . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but not let that confine us technologically . project manager : okay . right . marketing : so alright ? any um comments on all of that ? project manager : well , um one of the things that we have to decide on by the end of the meeting is who we 're gon na be um who 's our our target audience , our target market . marketing : that 's uh project manager : um , so if we want something that that looks good and is easy to use , but has y is fairly powerful product , whatever , who do we really want to aim that at ? marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : i mean marketing : where 's the money , maybe . project manager : yeah , who wou who would have the money to spend . well i if if like twenty five euro is our is our selling price then you can imagine , marketing : yeah . and who watches tv . mm-hmm . project manager : well i do n't i 'm not really sure how much that will retail at . but you want it 's somebody who 's not gon na just use the remote that comes with their telly , i suppose , they 're gon na actually go out and buy one . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so , who do you think we 're aiming this at ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um , i think it 'll be the mid range to the high end market , in terms of people . 'cause twenty five euros for a remote , how much is that lo locally in pounds ? project manager : it 's about sixteen , seventeen pounds , i think . industrial designer : is that too is that a lot of money to buy an extra remote or a replacement remote ? project manager : yeah , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um so maybe not the high end range , but maybe middle , middle up-ish . kind of . project manager : okay . industrial designer : you know how much ? i dunno i guess you pay , what , ten ten quid for a remote ? project manager : okay . industrial designer : like a simple replacement , right . i mean if you lost your remote and the first thing you just wan na go out and get , project manager : yeah . yeah , marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : would you how much would you pay ? marketing : this this kinda touches on your comments there , david . these are the age groups which we have information on industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and these are this is a table of h what people would pay more for a certain feature . project manager : okay marketing : just gives us a rough idea of where the w the will to spend money on tv equipment is . project manager : okay . marketing : mostly focused around the twenty five age group . project manager : yeah , so do you think we 're we 're aiming at a fairly young market then ? marketing : sort of young professional , kind of . mm-hmm project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : um project manager : um do you think then uh voice recognition is something we should really seriously consider ? what what do you think , craig ? user interface : well , did you not say it was the the adults that were going for the the voice recognition ? sort of the the older group . marketing : uh , yeah , it 's the yep . it does it does fit with the market that we 're sort of identifying , project manager : n yeah . marketing : in terms of project manager : i think we are gon na have to narrow it down , to say let 's target these people and give them what they want marketing : okay . project manager : and 'cause you know , there needs to be some kind of selling point to it . marketing : yeah . sure . sure . project manager : so um anybody anything there to add marketing : yeah . project manager : just kind of young professionals , uh th like if we are going to include speech recognition , it 's kind of between fifteen and thirty five seems to be like a really high response to that . so we could say that was our target . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i i think twenty five to thirty five is is is fair to add that in as a group as well project manager : yeah . industrial designer : because that 's more than half your group of people who are willing to at least try and use your technology . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , so fifteen to thirty five , look fairly young . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : you know , they have bit of expendable income to spend on this sort of thing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think perhaps that age group is significant as well because those are people who use the computer , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : who are familiar with their with computers in in their everyday work . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think people who are maybe about i would n't say thirty five , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : but people who are about forty-ish and above now would not be so dependent and reliant on a computer or a mobile phone or something like that . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . but yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , sure . industrial designer : so these are people who are gadgety , right ? project manager : so marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : people who are u growing up used to , you know in schools and in universities , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : when you go on to their working lives , people who would you know regular project manager : yeah . so they 'll not sh not shy away from something quite high-tech . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . mm . project manager : that that 's that 's a good point . marketing : yeah . project manager : um okay , so um industrial designer : project manager : so shall we make the decision uh to include speech recognition marketing : if we can . industrial designer : i i think one thing we should try not to avoid is not to say we have to use speech recognition right now , project manager : if we can . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because um , based on what you 've go y everybody 's saying , right , you want something simple . project manager : okay . why is that ? industrial designer : you want basic stuff and you want something that 's easy to use . speech recognition might not be the simplest thing for somebody to use . marketing : right . project manager : okay . marketing : could it be an on off thing ? like if you want it on industrial designer : but what i 'm saying is that we 're we 're trying to lock ourselves into a s particular kind of technology , project manager : where you can activate it and deactivate it ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : rather than focusing on on exactly what are the features that we 're gon na say , and then , you know , say speech recognition is good for this , speech recognition is not good for this . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . sure . industrial designer : so maybe we should marketing : sure . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i suggest that we think about speech recognition , marketing : yeah . sure . industrial designer : anyway it 's a it 's something that can be used to fulfil a function , but at end of the day we do n't look at the technology , but we look at the function first . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> what did marketing think of installing a new remote control when presenting the second inspiration on technology simplicity ? </s> marketing : so this is what i 've found here , um a lot of this is new to me , so we 'll just read through together . um , users dislike the look and feel of current remote controls . so they find them ugly . most people find them ugly . um the vast majority would spend more money for it to look fancy as well , we 'll see later , the vast majority would spend more money for um slightly more intuitive control , such as voice recognition . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay i 'm gon na we 'll look at that in a second . um most people use only a f a very slim portion of all the controls . so i guess what we 're looking at here is people want this h technology , they tend to use the most simple controls and overall they find remote controls to be something they do n't does n't really appeal to them . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i think what we 're doing is we 're trying to take like if for me this is sorta like three different different um inspirations , you know , one is that we want uh something that 's high-tech but we want it to seem easy . and in spite of the primitive side of it and the very high-tech side , we want it to just be an appealing piece of equipment in people 's hands . um , frustrations . they get lost a lot , s as it came up in our last meeting . um , takes time to learn how to use them . this is uh why i mention when craig was uh showing us some ideas that we actually try and group controls , so d it does n't just look like a big panel , kinda like when you you look at , you know , a new computer keyboard , or something that is quite explanatory . if you want audio , if you want visual , then you have those . um and i will admit i do n't know what r_s_i_ stands for . project manager : repetitive strain injury . industrial designer : is installing a new remote control something that people marketing : uh , no , that did not come up at all . um so here here is another um sort of a a review here of the main things . i also found that most people would uh adults at least would pay more for voice recognition . now apparently we do have access to all the tech cutting edge technology in remote control . so i dunno if that 's possible we might consider getting into it . um . and and again here as we sort of move m sort of thin start thinking about how we wan na sell and market this , i think a recurring theme here is the company wants it to be wants us to make something that 's fashionable and sleek and trendy . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um people uh additionally are n't are n't liking the appearance of their products , so we wan na think about as we take all the sort of the techie features how we can um put that into a unit which is which people like . </s>
<s> what 's the conclusion on the age group when discussing the target group and why ? </s> project manager : just kind of young professionals , uh th like if we are going to include speech recognition , it 's kind of between fifteen and thirty five seems to be like a really high response to that . so we could say that was our target . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i i think twenty five to thirty five is is is fair to add that in as a group as well project manager : yeah . industrial designer : because that 's more than half your group of people who are willing to at least try and use your technology . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , so fifteen to thirty five , look fairly young . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : you know , they have bit of expendable income to spend on this sort of thing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think perhaps that age group is significant as well because those are people who use the computer , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : who are familiar with their with computers in in their everyday work . </s>
<s> summarize the presentation on the working design . </s> project manager : uh okay , well do you wan na um give us your presentation industrial designer : okay , sure . project manager : and then then we can i do n't know um might have been a good idea to all deliver our presentations and then discuss , but this is this is how we 're marketing : yeah , it 's good well it 's good to get ideas out while they 're fresh in mind . project manager : yeah , exactly , yeah . marketing : um project manager : oh it 's something that 's just occurred to me as well is if we make it um speech reco if we incorporate speech recognition , that 's appealing to people um maybe with a physical disability as well . marketing : not yeah . and not losing . and also it helps in terms of people not losing this , project manager : yeah . marketing : you know they they 're saying oh it 's i lose it in the couch . project manager : yeah . marketing : like we 're kind of what we 're b sort of getting in into here is mating different uh design features together project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : that they user interface : i reckon one problem with speech recognition is um i 've actually seen one of them used and uh the technology that was in that one was n't particularly amazing , so you end up yelling at the control for hours . industrial designer : project manager : really ? user interface : channel up . marketing : right . user interface : marketing : oh really , you 've seen one before . project manager : do you think maybe we need like further advances in that kind of area until it 's worthwhile incorporating it though ? user interface : um i think it 'd probably quite expensive to put in . industrial designer : sorry , do you mind passing me my notepad . project manager : mm . course not . industrial designer : thanks . cool , project manager : there you go . industrial designer : um . okay . um . project manager : right . industrial designer : well this is just the working design um . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well this is just what how i would go about it . um i guess i try to define like what we 're doing now , try to define what we 're trying to get done . um i think in a practical way , we kind of know what it is . marketing : right . industrial designer : we 've used it , we 're familiar with it , but we 're we ca n't n we have n't narrowed down um exactly what the things we 're trying to fulfil , like besides the basics , i think back in the back of our minds we know what the basics are . has to change channels , has to change volume , but in like specifics , right , which one of the basics are you trying to target . um are there certain parts of the basics that are more important or less important than the basics ? marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and i just the idea is just to get everybody to um i usually have a have have a design that 's there as a basic , so , you know , things that to start everything going . but i guess everybody does have some idea , so i do n't think um there 's a need for that . um okay this finding things is a little bit confusing , so i 'll go into the diagram first . it just explains how the process goes through , from a project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : from the basic technology point of view , the basic steps that you need um in the diagram and in this slide probably works better . um okay , you need some power source . 'kay , a battery or something , to keep it going . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and that power source is important because it ties you down to um how long the device will last . um it ties you down perhaps a bit later on in terms of the technologies project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : um how far you can transmit the signal or the complexity of the functions that you want . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like for example , voice recognition , right . that might be constrained because that you might need to power a microphone , you might need to power other things , so that 's one perhaps constraint there . um th okay , the basic thing is there 's a user interface where people punch a button or talk into it or smile to it or blink their eyes , whatever . you know , and that um picks up an input from a user , um uh a logic a series of logic has to decide what the user is telling the device , and the device has to r you know , based on you push button a_ , so i will do something with button a_ . so maybe button a_ is the power button , okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and then it needs to be able to send the signal out to the device itself which is the receiver here . um and i think that 's about it in terms of my design um . it 's fairly general , um and i guess the purpose of this is also not to restrict you in in the way you 're thinking , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like um voice recognition , right , um , if it 's something which is important then we just add more power rather than having a thing that we do n't have enough power . so it 's not really a constraint in that sense , project manager : okay . industrial designer : but i mean these are functionally , you know , the base , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : what the technology has to do . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um so i guess the rest of it marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i think we should maybe you you wan na go back to what the functions are ? i think that 's more relevant to a discussion ? marketing : 'kay . project manager : well , do you wan do you wan na finish up your your whole presentation then ? marketing : sure . sure . industrial designer : yeah , w i 'm done . project manager : are you are you all done ? industrial designer : more or less . yeah . ps oh , it 's just putting the rest of it into words , but it 's essentially the same thing . um you have a transmitter , an input device , logic chip , project manager : okay . industrial designer : you know , stuff like that . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> what are the advantages and the disadvantages of voice recognition from group discussion ? </s> industrial designer : okay , sure . project manager : and then then we can i do n't know um might have been a good idea to all deliver our presentations and then discuss , but this is this is how we 're marketing : yeah , it 's good well it 's good to get ideas out while they 're fresh in mind . project manager : yeah , exactly , yeah . marketing : um project manager : oh it 's something that 's just occurred to me as well is if we make it um speech reco if we incorporate speech recognition , that 's appealing to people um maybe with a physical disability as well . marketing : not yeah . and not losing . and also it helps in terms of people not losing this , project manager : yeah . marketing : you know they they 're saying oh it 's i lose it in the couch . project manager : yeah . marketing : like we 're kind of what we 're b sort of getting in into here is mating different uh design features together project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : that they user interface : i reckon one problem with speech recognition is um i 've actually seen one of them used and uh the technology that was in that one was n't particularly amazing , so you end up yelling at the control for hours . industrial designer : project manager : really ? user interface : channel up . marketing : right . user interface : marketing : oh really , you 've seen one before . project manager : do you think maybe we need like further advances in that kind of area until it 's worthwhile incorporating it though ? </s>
<s> why did industrial designer think that the power source was important when presenting the working design ? </s> industrial designer : um and that power source is important because it ties you down to um how long the device will last . um it ties you down perhaps a bit later on in terms of the technologies project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : um how far you can transmit the signal or the complexity of the functions that you want . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like for example , voice recognition , right . that might be constrained because that you might need to power a microphone , you might need to power other things , so that 's one perhaps constraint there . um th okay , the basic thing is there 's a user interface where people punch a button or talk into it or smile to it or blink their eyes , whatever . you know , and that um picks up an input from a user , um uh a logic a series of logic has to decide what the user is telling the device , and the device has to r you know , based on you push button a_ , so i will do something with button a_ . so maybe button a_ is the power button , okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and then it needs to be able to send the signal out to the device itself which is the receiver here . um and i think that 's about it in terms of my design um . it 's fairly general , um and i guess the purpose of this is also not to restrict you in in the way you 're thinking , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like um voice recognition , right , um , if it 's something which is important then we just add more power rather than having a thing that we do n't have enough power . so it 's not really a constraint in that sense , project manager : okay . industrial designer : but i mean these are functionally , you know , the base , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . hello everyone . um how uh how we doing ? industrial designer : yeah , good . project manager : uh first we going uh over the minutes of the last meeting , more or less . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um in the last meeting uh the marketing manager had presented uh her method of working , meaning gathering i suggestions from everyone to see how she best could market uh this this product at the within the budget uh that was given . uh in general the idea is that it should be something that is not difficult to use . um it 's also an item that people lose a lot . so we should address that . and , of course , it should be something s s that is very simple to use . in addition to that to make it sell , of course , uh the marketing manager w wishes that it be very attractive , marketing : project manager : or like she says put some sizzle into it in one way or another so that the people are buying it now because , in particular with smaller items , that 's a very important fact , 'cause um if they say , well , i go home and think about it , that wo n't work . um also mentioned was it should be uh it should have a very short learning curve . and maybe it could be sold by using a slogan . our technical manager has then said that she feels it should have a chip marketing : project manager : that has infra-red bits and it has an interface controls w interface that controls the chip . therefore , messages uh will be controlled in the same manner . there should be extra features like lid buttons , maybe a beep . if too many buttons are pressed , mm uh uh child lock um and uh maybe a display clock so that people could um you could see the time , you know , what show they want to watch . also mentioned was uh maybe different shapes . so the components of the thing should be button , bulbs , infra infra-red bulbs , battery , chips , wires , and maybe some kind of a holder uh for the for the uh item . francino who is our um user interface : interface designer . project manager : interface designer um uh has mentioned that the that it , of course , should have an on-off button , and also has mentioned an interesting feature that it should have maybe a channel lock . particularly with maybe small children that they could n't uh watch a channel that is undesirable . it should be compact . her personal favourite was it should be t-shaped . and maybe have an anar alarm-clock . and the material should possibly be not of non-allergic nature . uh the different systems uh that exist are infra-red or radio-waves . uh maybe it should have uh electri electrici electricity saving feature . marketing : project manager : and even possibly a timer to so that people can program their favourite uh uh program on th right from the remote . uh are we all in agreement that that 's about what we discussed last time ? okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , i think that pretty much is it . yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : okay , then we i 'm looking for three presentations . and uh i do n't know whether the order matters much uh , i do n't i do n't think so , so whoever w wants user interface : okay , i can start first . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : okay . now my slide , please . project manager : okay , your slides . okay . oh , come on , close already . marketing : project manager : and that 's number two , right ? user interface : three . project manager : three . user interface : participant three . yes . okay . project manager : okay . user interface : now as an interface designer , i would give more emphasis on the interface , how the remote looks like so that it is sellable , it is attractive to customers . next , please . okay . now the function of a remote is to send messages to the television . this messages could be uh switch on-off message or switch to next channel message or swapping the channels or switching onto a particular channel , like you can have the numbers one , two , three , four , up to nine . project manager : nine what ? nine channel uh switches ? user interface : pardon me ? project manager : nine channel switches ? is yeah . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : yes , nine numbers . and then you have swapping of uh button project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : by which using which you can swap the channels if you do n't want to see the third channel you can swap it to the fourth channel or vice versa . then it should have a next button , and next button channel by which you can keep on uh v uh mm eh scrolling the channels one by one . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : going to the nex next . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : next slide , please . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then you should have a button which should which ca which can be used for increasing or decreasing the volume . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then , there should be a button which can give subtitles for a particular program which is going on a television . for example , if you are watching a french program and you would like to have a subtitles in english , then there should be a channel which can trigger this mechanism in the television so that the user can see uh the the subtitles on the screen . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then there should d uh there should be some buttons which can control features like the colour , colour of the picture , the contrast , sharpness , brightness of the picture . now there should be a memory switch . there should be a mute button . suddenly if if if uh uh viewer he gets a telephone call , and if he want he does n't want to switch off the uh tv , but he he can reduce the sound , he can bring the volume down and he can watch he can uh while talking he can watch the tv . now the most important feature i would like to have in my remote would be the speech recognition feature . it 's an integrated progra programmable sample sensor speaker unit . so a remote can be th can be uh designed which can have the voice recognisers , you can record your own voice project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : which can be recognised by as voice recogniser in the television , for example , if you want to see we if you want to see the ninth channel if you say just say ninth channel , uh th now the the uh yeah , the remote will automatically it will switch to the ninth channel . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : so the tv will have some recogniser which will recognise the user 's voice and accordingly it will change its functionalities . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : so this is one of the very important feature a remote control can have . so this is one one of the interface which can be created . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : a very simple interface which has all the t uh uh important features . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then , please , next slide . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then , these are some of the remotes which are different in shape and colour , but they have many buttons . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so uh sometimes the user finds it very difficult to recognise which button is for what function and all that . so you can you can design an interface which is very simple , and which is user-friendly . even a kid can use that . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so can you go on t t uh to the next slide . yeah , so this is one of the interface or one of the remote which has this vi voice recogniser . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : user interface : and this has multi-purpose use , it can be used for tv , it can be used for cable-satellite , it can be used for v_c_r_ , d_v_d_s and audio . and this has in-built voice recogniser . project manager : user interface : can you go on to the next slide ? yeah , now this is an interface for a chil uh for a remote uh uh which a child can use . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : uh this is user-friendly , it 's very attractive and uh children can use it as well as they can play with it . and this comes with different colours , different shapes . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and this this uh child uh interface has minimum buttons marketing : user interface : and all the important uh buttons are there in this small , compact , attractive child interface . next slide , please . now this is a big over-sized remote which can not be misplaced or it 's impossible to misplace . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : marketing : you do n't know me . user interface : this . marketing : i could lose that in a minute . user interface : project manager : user interface : so this is no this is a very big , you can not misplace it anywhere . marketing : user interface : so this is a jumbo universal remote control and it 's impossible to im misplace or lose . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : this i this is one such interface which can be created . and the personal preference uh would be a spe uh uh to incorporate speech recognisers uh which will respond to user 's voice for a particular uh function . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . right . user interface : thank you , that 's project manager : mm-hmm . okay , thank you very much . uh any comments on uh her presentation ? marketing : well , um looks like we still have quite a choice of things out there . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um what uh i 'm no suggestion 's bad . user interface : mm yes . marketing : but uh we 're gon na have to narrow it down a little more . i do n't think that we can get uh the t-shape is good , the child one is good , the too big to misplace , i think it 's just funny . user interface : okay . marketing : um i do n't think that 's gon na be our impulse purchase at the checkout counter . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , i i th i think user interface : okay . marketing : it 's it 's gon na be a little bit too unwieldy . user interface : project manager : no , i think the these are her presentations , but uh as far as the decision making we getting to that after after marketing : yeah mm . mm-hmm . have to come back to that later . okay . user interface : we can . project manager : but if i just wanted to know whether anybody had any any anything to add to her presentation . marketing : no , i think her presentation was good , and she really explored all the options . yeah . project manager : mm right . mm-hmm . ho who wants to go next um ? mm-hmm . okay , industrial designer : yeah , maybe . project manager : and you industrial designer : participant two . marketing : project manager : uh okay . industrial designer : uh the next one , sorry . project manager : oops . industrial designer : it 's it was the old one . project manager : the components design . industrial designer : components . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : um this time i 'm i 'm going to um concentrate more on the components and the technical side of the remote controller design . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh , can you go on to the next slide , please . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i have just brief uh down few uh components which we require for the remote control uh construction . marketing : industrial designer : uh the first one is case to keep all the components like integrated circuit , battery , etcetera , etcetera , it 's like uh it can be a plastic one , hard plastic , so that it can be strong , even if you just uh uh , you know , if you if it falls down , then it does n't break . so it should be strong . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh uh there are no harmful materials used in that . and it should be recyclable . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh and uh , marketing : mm-hmm . good point . industrial designer : yeah , and also uh using of colouring compon components like uh if we want to have different colours , blue , red , green , so uh uh we have to use uh some colouring compone compone components . and uh the second important thing is uh uh uh integrated circuit . marketing : industrial designer : uh which uh we can use a highly sophisticated one because it 's like the it 's like the heart of the remote controller . if it is not efficient then everything wi is going to be uh like um the lef ess less efficient so it you should we should have a highly sophisticated one . and it should be resistant to high as well as uh low temperatures . suppose if it is thirty-eight degrees outside forty degrees outside , it should it should uh be able to re uh resist the uh temperature uh uh highs and uh high temperatures and low temperatures . and uh it should be with uh um equipped with timer and alarm facility . and the uh other component we should uh we have in the remote controller is a resistor uh which is like uh uh i it is very very much important for the electricity uh flow through through through the uh remote controller and uh also a capacitor which is a b which is a m i think it 's it 's like a battery , capacitor . can you go on to the next slide , please ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh a diode , a transistor , a resonator , these are all this uh technical uh electri electronic compons uh components which are which we have to use in a remote controller . a battery uh , i would like to suggest one thing uh if we uh if we will be able to make a res rechargeable battery then we sh we need not go for a high performance battery , even if it is a low performance battery it ca it ca n't l it ca n't charge much . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it it it 's not a high voltage battery . then also we can if it is a rechargeable one , then uh people can use it for a long time , so in that way we can cut cut the cost , but w uh uh that we have to make the battery as rechargeable one . and we we have a circuit board uh in a remote controller . can you go to the next slide , please . and how it works , how the remote controller works . project manager : go away . industrial designer : thank you . uh when you press a button , when you do that , you complete a specific connection that means when you when you press a button there will be a s a small circuit underneath the button , and it will send some signals through the wires , marketing : industrial designer : and then uh the chip will send start connection and knows that which button is pressed . suppose you have pressed channel one button , number one you have pressed , then the uh chip will know that the number one button was pressed . marketing : industrial designer : it pros produces a mors morse code line signal specific to that button . every button , every individual button , has its own morse code . suppose uh the uh user has pressed butto button one , then it will have a spe the circuit will generate a specific morse code to b that that button , and the transistor will amplify the signal and send then to the l_e_d_ which translates the signal into infrared light . like you have got a signal by pressing a button . that 's a d a morse code has been generated by the integrated circuit . now , that signal , that morse code , has to be amplified by the transistor . that is the use of transist transistor we which we use in the remote controller . it will amplify the signal and it will send it to the l_e_d_ and which translates the signal into an infra infrared bits . the sensor on the tv can see the infrared light , and seeing the signal seeing the signal re it reacts appropriately , that when it sees the amplified mo morse code signal , then it will uh it will uh know which uh what what action it has to uh do . then it will do the appropriate action . so uh this is how the remote controller works . user interface : it works . industrial designer : can you go to the next slide , please . yeah , i have few pictures . when you look at the uh um remote controller uh it 's it 's it this is a normal remote controller . and to the next slide , please . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and where we had a a few buttons and all . and uh if you open the remote controller you have this circui circuit board and few electronic components , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like you can see a chip there which is having eighteen pins , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and also a capac uh a capacitor , three resistors and also a resonator uh um mm yeah , and di and a diode transistor . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : the electronic components uh all of the electronic components have all those uh things like a chip and d diode transistors an yeah , di um can y uh you can see the t_a_ double one eight three five labelled uh chip um . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm yes . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh you can also see the uh uh the green two green things are uh these are they are they are resistors , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh just beside that you can see a transistor , and a uh uh cylinder shape , uh that one is a capacitor . uh and also there are uh um resistors uh sorry , ther there is a diode . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : can you go go on to the next slide . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so uh this is the circuit board . the green one is a circuit board . actually , uh building a circuit bo board is pretty pretty uh easy and also it 's a it 's a l l inexpensive . uh it 's it costs less than what you print on a paper , because uh uh when you when you are building uh some circuits some um uh circuits and also wires , it 's it 's better to go for printing , because uh you can build these kind of k circuit boards on a on a bulk and it 's just printing , nothing like uh , you know , you do n't need to use wires and all . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's not exactly wires we are using . it 's just printing something on a board . marketing : industrial designer : tha tho those prints will acti act as wires and ci uh circuits . so th that green uh thing is a circuit board , and also you can see uh there are b s like uh um access for buttons , like when you press a button , the circuit under the button will be activated uh th it will it will he get some signals from it and it will uh it will ch its ch se send a signal signals to the , yeah , um integrated circuit . user interface : transmit . industrial designer : can you go to the next slide , please . uh so this is these are the circuits un underneath the buttons . uh can you see the black uh , round marks ? project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : they they are the circuits . next , please . and um like uh we have uh designed uh before we have seen some uh few things like instead off buttons we have some scrolls . uh b but a b a push-button requires a simple chip underneath it , but whereas a scroll wheel requires normally a regular chip which is a higher price range . like for s scrolls we have to go for a sophisticated and and k uh uh uh full a complete chip . marketing : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh and a as energy source we offer a basic battery , a more ingenious uh hard dynamo , um a kinetic provision of energy , more than what is that you shake casually to provide energy . so that also we can have in a battery , uh or we can use solar sells . uh . marketing : hmm , that 's interesting . industrial designer : yeah . uh yeah uh the product can be de delivered into different cases . uh usually , the cases and card flat that w we see usually uh d uh a normal remote controller . user interface : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and you have more pictures . uh we have five minutes to the end of the meeting . industrial designer : yeah , maybe d uh i have just one more slide , i think . um . like we can have a ma material such as plastic , rubber , wood , titanium , but titanium we ca n't use . um and also for electronics we can use a simple and regular um re or an advanced chip on the print , um also infra it includes the infrared se sender . um yeah the uh for the movie just to j develop uh samples and so spe sample speaker . an yeah , that 's it . it 's all for me now , project manager : okay , well thank you . industrial designer : thank you . project manager : any particular comments by anybody ? marketing : uh yeah , on the scroll and the push-button , um ca you can achieve scrolling by repeatedly pushing a button ? industrial designer : no , no , no , th the the the scrolling wheels are different , like you can go for a sw switches like buttons or scrolls , uh which which we used to do before ten ten years before , i think . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : now , nobody uses that because you need you need a a k sophisticated chip and all . marketing : industrial designer : so i think it 's better we go for uh um ordinary buttons . marketing : um . we 'll just go for push buttons industrial designer : yeah uh yeah , push-buttons . yeah . user interface : push-buttons . marketing : for in the interest of cost . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : we do n't have a lot of time left and we will still have to make a decision , and the marketing expert has to present her her thing . marketing : okay . go right to my first my next slide . project manager : uh okay . marketing : um alright , my method is uh i 'm interested in what the competition is doing , and wan na see how we can make ourselves different from the competition , so i 've really been looking at the press and the ads that are out there for other remote controllers . i s i spend a lot of time on the internet um surfing around doing the same thing . and then when i 'm out um in people 's houses or at meetings or anything like that , i try to notice what kind of remote controls people have , and if it 's convenient in the conversation i ask about it . and i would encourage you all to do the same . um and my findings from this is that , you know , small is beautiful . um people like something that really fits in their hand . user interface : 'kay . marketing : simple is beautiful . they do n't want to have to squint at small print um , they want buttons whose functions are obvious , and they want um as few buttons as possible , and they do n't care for the mode thing . they want each button to do something . and eye-catching is important . it 's got ta look cute , it 's got ta look appealing . go ahead , i 'm trying to finish fast for you . um and our preference is , as far as i 'm concerned , are we got to get to the market before the competition . ours has to be look really great and it has to come out before the others , so that we have a leg up on time to sell it and push it before other people get out their christmas item . and we should develop one or two features we can really dwell on in our ad campaign . if we try to tell people it has too many great features , um the consumer just gets confused and we do n't get anywhere . so we 've got ta narrow our selection down to li two things , i think , that we gon na say are really great about our our our new product . and i 've been looking around um at what designs every year different things are popular . and in my research this year i found out that fruit and vegetable shapes are really popular . and people are tired of hard plastic and hard metal . they are more back into soft feel , spongy feeling things , things with maybe a little cloth on them . so those are things maybe we wan na look at as far as saleability of the item . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : uh that concludes the presentation of everyone . and what we really have to decide in this meeting is um the concept of the remote . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and uh so what do we think on the concept marketing : project manager : of the remote ? marketing : you wan na try to come back to yours , and limit yours a bit ? project manager : y user interface : uh yes , i would like to include this feature which is called as voice recogniser . project manager : okay . mm-hmm . marketing : okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : so speech recognition is most important as far as you 're concerned ? user interface : this could be uh one feature which could be sellable . industrial designer : yeah , but w marketing : yeah h that could that could that could be our star feature . project manager : i think that 's industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that that be really good , yeah , i agree with that . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , but but i what i 'm uh very very much doubtful how how uh far it will work , because a speech recogniser like i it it has its own uh uh problems , issues . marketing : distance problem ? industrial designer : yeah , it 's not distance problem it it 's recognising a person 's voice , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like maybe different people will be having different voices , so it like it 's uh everything so i project manager : well , you you teach you have to teach uh industrial designer : so to get a good recogni recognising system , it 's a costly thing , i think . marketing : user interface : no , it 's it 's , uh yeah , it it 's like your recording of uh all uh um a question already , and then you 're expecting an answer from th for example , you have a tv system , i 'm the user and my family members are the user , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i will already record uh a question like , uh good morning , industrial designer : yeah , but yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : like around eight o'clock i want to see the news in the television . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so i 'll say just good morning and the tv will switch on . it will recognise my voice and will switch on . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : okay , before we get too far off here um , the components of the concept is the energy . what kind of energy do we foresee ? battery . marketing : i think i think battery , project manager : battery . user interface : battery . marketing : and i think we all agreed on that . that that 's that 's gon na be most cost-effective and the best thing . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay then chip on print . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . and the case . and i think we all agree on the case , we wan na have something uh maybe bright , colourful . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : bright , colourful , trendy trendy design , and strong . user interface : and compact . industrial designer : and also strong . user interface : trendy design and compact . industrial designer : trendy , yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . trendy design , compact and strong . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : user interface concept , uh interface type , supplements marketing : project manager : that will be your area i think , right , jana . industrial designer : uh . um like the switches , like we use buttons for user interface . user interface : push-buttons . project manager : put uh k i guess uh for industrial designer : push-buttons . project manager : yeah . and not sure what they mean by supplements . user interface : and industrial designer : yeah . user interface : supplements like different types of features buttons , like can have a f mute button or a swapping button . marketing : well , i think that yeah , project manager : oh , like marketing : or or like her speech recognition would also be a supplement . project manager : oh . a what ? marketing : her speech recognition feature would be a supplement . project manager : right , right , right , mm-hmm . user interface : recogniser . yes . industrial designer : mm yeah . marketing : okay , so why do n't we put down speech recognition if possible pending some more research from our industrial engineer on how expensive that is . industrial designer : hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : right . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . uh our next meeting will be in thirty minutes , and the uh i_d_ is to this is the individual actions to be taken until then , to have the look and feel design , and uh the u_i_d_ is supposed to uh come up with the user interface design , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and the marketing expert with the product evaluation . marketing : okay . project manager : in this phase , the two of you , jana and francine , have to work together on a prototype using modelling clay , it says here . user interface : okay . marketing : project manager : you will receive specific instructions will be sent to you by your coaches . user interface : industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . project manager : um if you have any questions , you know , you you can always uh contact me um or uh or your coach , i suppose . user interface : marketing : wherever they 're hiding ? industrial designer : project manager : user interface : project manager : um so um i think we conclude the meeting here and we come back in uh uh thirty minutes , according to our timetable here . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : thank you very much . </s>
<s> summarize the recap of the last meeting . </s> project manager : uh first we going uh over the minutes of the last meeting , more or less . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um in the last meeting uh the marketing manager had presented uh her method of working , meaning gathering i suggestions from everyone to see how she best could market uh this this product at the within the budget uh that was given . uh in general the idea is that it should be something that is not difficult to use . um it 's also an item that people lose a lot . so we should address that . and , of course , it should be something s s that is very simple to use . in addition to that to make it sell , of course , uh the marketing manager w wishes that it be very attractive , marketing : project manager : or like she says put some sizzle into it in one way or another so that the people are buying it now because , in particular with smaller items , that 's a very important fact , 'cause um if they say , well , i go home and think about it , that wo n't work . um also mentioned was it should be uh it should have a very short learning curve . and maybe it could be sold by using a slogan . our technical manager has then said that she feels it should have a chip marketing : project manager : that has infra-red bits and it has an interface controls w interface that controls the chip . therefore , messages uh will be controlled in the same manner . there should be extra features like lid buttons , maybe a beep . if too many buttons are pressed , mm uh uh child lock um and uh maybe a display clock so that people could um you could see the time , you know , what show they want to watch . also mentioned was uh maybe different shapes . so the components of the thing should be button , bulbs , infra infra-red bulbs , battery , chips , wires , and maybe some kind of a holder uh for the for the uh item . francino who is our um user interface : interface designer . project manager : interface designer um uh has mentioned that the that it , of course , should have an on-off button , and also has mentioned an interesting feature that it should have maybe a channel lock . particularly with maybe small children that they could n't uh watch a channel that is undesirable . it should be compact . her personal favourite was it should be t-shaped . and maybe have an anar alarm-clock . and the material should possibly be not of non-allergic nature . uh the different systems uh that exist are infra-red or radio-waves . uh maybe it should have uh electri electrici electricity saving feature . marketing : </s>
<s> what would be the interface design of the remote ? </s> user interface : now as an interface designer , i would give more emphasis on the interface , how the remote looks like so that it is sellable , it is attractive to customers . next , please . okay . now the function of a remote is to send messages to the television . this messages could be uh switch on-off message or switch to next channel message or swapping the channels or switching onto a particular channel , like you can have the numbers one , two , three , four , up to nine . project manager : nine what ? nine channel uh switches ? user interface : pardon me ? project manager : nine channel switches ? is yeah . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : yes , nine numbers . and then you have swapping of uh button project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : by which using which you can swap the channels if you do n't want to see the third channel you can swap it to the fourth channel or vice versa . then it should have a next button , and next button channel by which you can keep on uh v uh mm eh scrolling the channels one by one . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : going to the nex next . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : next slide , please . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then you should have a button which should which ca which can be used for increasing or decreasing the volume . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then , there should be a button which can give subtitles for a particular program which is going on a television . for example , if you are watching a french program and you would like to have a subtitles in english , then there should be a channel which can trigger this mechanism in the television so that the user can see uh the the subtitles on the screen . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : then there should d uh there should be some buttons which can control features like the colour , colour of the picture , the contrast , sharpness , brightness of the picture . now there should be a memory switch . there should be a mute button . suddenly if if if uh uh viewer he gets a telephone call , and if he want he does n't want to switch off the uh tv , but he he can reduce the sound , he can bring the volume down and he can watch he can uh while talking he can watch the tv . now the most important feature i would like to have in my remote would be the speech recognition feature . it 's an integrated progra programmable sample sensor speaker unit . so a remote can be th can be uh designed which can have the voice recognisers , you can record your own voice project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : which can be recognised by as voice recogniser in the television , for example , if you want to see we if you want to see the ninth channel if you say just say ninth channel , uh th now the the uh yeah , the remote will automatically it will switch to the ninth channel . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : so the tv will have some recogniser which will recognise the user 's voice and accordingly it will change its functionalities . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : so this is one of the very important feature a remote control can have . so this is one one of the interface which can be created . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : a very simple interface which has all the t uh uh important features . </s>
<s> what did the team think about the slides with different types of the interface during the discussion of the interface design ? </s> user interface : then , these are some of the remotes which are different in shape and colour , but they have many buttons . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so uh sometimes the user finds it very difficult to recognise which button is for what function and all that . so you can you can design an interface which is very simple , and which is user-friendly . even a kid can use that . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so can you go on t t uh to the next slide . yeah , so this is one of the interface or one of the remote which has this vi voice recogniser . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : user interface : and this has multi-purpose use , it can be used for tv , it can be used for cable-satellite , it can be used for v_c_r_ , d_v_d_s and audio . and this has in-built voice recogniser . project manager : user interface : can you go on to the next slide ? yeah , now this is an interface for a chil uh for a remote uh uh which a child can use . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : uh this is user-friendly , it 's very attractive and uh children can use it as well as they can play with it . and this comes with different colours , different shapes . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and this this uh child uh interface has minimum buttons marketing : user interface : and all the important uh buttons are there in this small , compact , attractive child interface . next slide , please . now this is a big over-sized remote which can not be misplaced or it 's impossible to misplace . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : marketing : you do n't know me . user interface : this . marketing : i could lose that in a minute . user interface : project manager : user interface : so this is no this is a very big , you can not misplace it anywhere . marketing : user interface : so this is a jumbo universal remote control and it 's impossible to im misplace or lose . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : this i this is one such interface which can be created . and the personal preference uh would be a spe uh uh to incorporate speech recognisers uh which will respond to user 's voice for a particular uh function . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . right . user interface : thank you , that 's project manager : mm-hmm . okay , thank you very much . uh any comments on uh her presentation ? marketing : well , um looks like we still have quite a choice of things out there . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um what uh i 'm no suggestion 's bad . user interface : mm yes . marketing : but uh we 're gon na have to narrow it down a little more . i do n't think that we can get uh the t-shape is good , the child one is good , the too big to misplace , i think it 's just funny . user interface : okay . marketing : um i do n't think that 's gon na be our impulse purchase at the checkout counter . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , i i th i think user interface : okay . marketing : it 's it 's gon na be a little bit too unwieldy . user interface : project manager : no , i think the these are her presentations , but uh as far as the decision making we getting to that after after </s>
<s> what were the components discussed during the presentation of the component design that were required for the construction of the remote control ? </s> industrial designer : i have just brief uh down few uh components which we require for the remote control uh construction . marketing : industrial designer : uh the first one is case to keep all the components like integrated circuit , battery , etcetera , etcetera , it 's like uh it can be a plastic one , hard plastic , so that it can be strong , even if you just uh uh , you know , if you if it falls down , then it does n't break . so it should be strong . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh uh there are no harmful materials used in that . and it should be recyclable . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh and uh , marketing : mm-hmm . good point . industrial designer : yeah , and also uh using of colouring compon components like uh if we want to have different colours , blue , red , green , so uh uh we have to use uh some colouring compone compone components . and uh the second important thing is uh uh uh integrated circuit . marketing : industrial designer : uh which uh we can use a highly sophisticated one because it 's like the it 's like the heart of the remote controller . if it is not efficient then everything wi is going to be uh like um the lef ess less efficient so it you should we should have a highly sophisticated one . and it should be resistant to high as well as uh low temperatures . suppose if it is thirty-eight degrees outside forty degrees outside , it should it should uh be able to re uh resist the uh temperature uh uh highs and uh high temperatures and low temperatures . and uh it should be with uh um equipped with timer and alarm facility . and the uh other component we should uh we have in the remote controller is a resistor uh which is like uh uh i it is very very much important for the electricity uh flow through through through the uh remote controller and uh also a capacitor which is a b which is a m i think it 's it 's like a battery , capacitor . can you go on to the next slide , please ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh a diode , a transistor , a resonator , these are all this uh technical uh electri electronic compons uh components which are which we have to use in a remote controller . a battery uh , i would like to suggest one thing uh if we uh if we will be able to make a res rechargeable battery then we sh we need not go for a high performance battery , even if it is a low performance battery it ca it ca n't l it ca n't charge much . marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer say about the working design of the remote during the discussion of the component design ? </s> project manager : go away . industrial designer : thank you . uh when you press a button , when you do that , you complete a specific connection that means when you when you press a button there will be a s a small circuit underneath the button , and it will send some signals through the wires , marketing : industrial designer : and then uh the chip will send start connection and knows that which button is pressed . suppose you have pressed channel one button , number one you have pressed , then the uh chip will know that the number one button was pressed . marketing : industrial designer : it pros produces a mors morse code line signal specific to that button . every button , every individual button , has its own morse code . suppose uh the uh user has pressed butto button one , then it will have a spe the circuit will generate a specific morse code to b that that button , and the transistor will amplify the signal and send then to the l_e_d_ which translates the signal into infrared light . like you have got a signal by pressing a button . that 's a d a morse code has been generated by the integrated circuit . now , that signal , that morse code , has to be amplified by the transistor . that is the use of transist transistor we which we use in the remote controller . it will amplify the signal and it will send it to the l_e_d_ and which translates the signal into an infra infrared bits . the sensor on the tv can see the infrared light , and seeing the signal seeing the signal re it reacts appropriately , that when it sees the amplified mo morse code signal , then it will uh it will uh know which uh what what action it has to uh do . then it will do the appropriate action . so uh this is how the remote controller works . </s>
<s> what was agreed by the team about the component design ? </s> industrial designer : can you go to the next slide , please . yeah , i have few pictures . when you look at the uh um remote controller uh it 's it 's it this is a normal remote controller . and to the next slide , please . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and where we had a a few buttons and all . and uh if you open the remote controller you have this circui circuit board and few electronic components , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like you can see a chip there which is having eighteen pins , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and also a capac uh a capacitor , three resistors and also a resonator uh um mm yeah , and di and a diode transistor . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : the electronic components uh all of the electronic components have all those uh things like a chip and d diode transistors an yeah , di um can y uh you can see the t_a_ double one eight three five labelled uh chip um . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm yes . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh you can also see the uh uh the green two green things are uh these are they are they are resistors , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh just beside that you can see a transistor , and a uh uh cylinder shape , uh that one is a capacitor . uh and also there are uh um resistors uh sorry , ther there is a diode . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : can you go go on to the next slide . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so uh this is the circuit board . the green one is a circuit board . actually , uh building a circuit bo board is pretty pretty uh easy and also it 's a it 's a l l inexpensive . uh it 's it costs less than what you print on a paper , because uh uh when you when you are building uh some circuits some um uh circuits and also wires , it 's it 's better to go for printing , because uh you can build these kind of k circuit boards on a on a bulk and it 's just printing , nothing like uh , you know , you do n't need to use wires and all . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's not exactly wires we are using . it 's just printing something on a board . marketing : industrial designer : tha tho those prints will acti act as wires and ci uh circuits . so th that green uh thing is a circuit board , and also you can see uh there are b s like uh um access for buttons , like when you press a button , the circuit under the button will be activated uh th it will it will he get some signals from it and it will uh it will ch its ch se send a signal signals to the , yeah , um integrated circuit . user interface : transmit . industrial designer : can you go to the next slide , please . uh so this is these are the circuits un underneath the buttons . uh can you see the black uh , round marks ? project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : they they are the circuits . next , please . and um like uh we have uh designed uh before we have seen some uh few things like instead off buttons we have some scrolls . uh b but a b a push-button requires a simple chip underneath it , but whereas a scroll wheel requires normally a regular chip which is a higher price range . like for s scrolls we have to go for a sophisticated and and k uh uh uh full a complete chip . marketing : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh and a as energy source we offer a basic battery , a more ingenious uh hard dynamo , um a kinetic provision of energy , more than what is that you shake casually to provide energy . so that also we can have in a battery , uh or we can use solar sells . uh . marketing : hmm , that 's interesting . industrial designer : yeah . uh yeah uh the product can be de delivered into different cases . uh usually , the cases and card flat that w we see usually uh d uh a normal remote controller . user interface : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and you have more pictures . uh we have five minutes to the end of the meeting . industrial designer : yeah , maybe d uh i have just one more slide , i think . um . like we can have a ma material such as plastic , rubber , wood , titanium , but titanium we ca n't use . um and also for electronics we can use a simple and regular um re or an advanced chip on the print , um also infra it includes the infrared se sender . um yeah the uh for the movie just to j develop uh samples and so spe sample speaker . an yeah , that 's it . it 's all for me now , project manager : okay , well thank you . industrial designer : thank you . project manager : any particular comments by anybody ? marketing : uh yeah , on the scroll and the push-button , um ca you can achieve scrolling by repeatedly pushing a button ? industrial designer : no , no , no , th the the the scrolling wheels are different , like you can go for a sw switches like buttons or scrolls , uh which which we used to do before ten ten years before , i think . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : now , nobody uses that because you need you need a a k sophisticated chip and all . marketing : industrial designer : so i think it 's better we go for uh um ordinary buttons . marketing : um . we 'll just go for push buttons industrial designer : yeah uh yeah , push-buttons . yeah . user interface : push-buttons . marketing : for in the interest of cost . project manager : okay , before we get too far off here um , the components of the concept is the energy . what kind of energy do we foresee ? battery . marketing : i think i think battery , project manager : battery . user interface : battery . marketing : and i think we all agreed on that . that that 's that 's gon na be most cost-effective and the best thing . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay then chip on print . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . and the case . and i think we all agree on the case , we wan na have something uh maybe bright , colourful . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : bright , colourful , trendy trendy design , and strong . user interface : and compact . industrial designer : and also strong . user interface : trendy design and compact . industrial designer : trendy , yeah . </s>
<s> what was left open to discuss about the component design ? </s> industrial designer : yeah . uh yeah uh the product can be de delivered into different cases . uh usually , the cases and card flat that w we see usually uh d uh a normal remote controller . yeah , maybe d uh i have just one more slide , i think . um . like we can have a ma material such as plastic , rubber , wood , titanium , but titanium we ca n't use . um and also for electronics we can use a simple and regular um re or an advanced chip on the print , um also infra it includes the infrared se sender . um yeah the uh for the movie just to j develop uh samples and so spe sample speaker . an yeah , that 's it . it 's all for me now , yeah , but but i what i 'm uh very very much doubtful how how uh far it will work , because a speech recogniser like i it it has its own uh uh problems , issues . marketing : distance problem ? industrial designer : yeah , it 's not distance problem it it 's recognising a person 's voice , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : like maybe different people will be having different voices , so it like it 's uh everything so i project manager : well , you you teach you have to teach uh industrial designer : so to get a good recogni recognising system , it 's a costly thing , i think . marketing : user interface : no , it 's it 's , uh yeah , it it 's like your recording of uh all uh um a question already , and then you 're expecting an answer from th for example , you have a tv system , i 'm the user and my family members are the user , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i will already record uh a question like , uh good morning , industrial designer : yeah , but yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : like around eight o'clock i want to see the news in the television . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so i 'll say just good morning and the tv will switch on . it will recognise my voice and will switch on . </s>
<s> summarize the presentation about findings for marketing . </s> marketing : okay . go right to my first my next slide . project manager : uh okay . marketing : um alright , my method is uh i 'm interested in what the competition is doing , and wan na see how we can make ourselves different from the competition , so i 've really been looking at the press and the ads that are out there for other remote controllers . i s i spend a lot of time on the internet um surfing around doing the same thing . and then when i 'm out um in people 's houses or at meetings or anything like that , i try to notice what kind of remote controls people have , and if it 's convenient in the conversation i ask about it . and i would encourage you all to do the same . um and my findings from this is that , you know , small is beautiful . um people like something that really fits in their hand . user interface : 'kay . marketing : simple is beautiful . they do n't want to have to squint at small print um , they want buttons whose functions are obvious , and they want um as few buttons as possible , and they do n't care for the mode thing . they want each button to do something . and eye-catching is important . it 's got ta look cute , it 's got ta look appealing . go ahead , i 'm trying to finish fast for you . um and our preference is , as far as i 'm concerned , are we got to get to the market before the competition . ours has to be look really great and it has to come out before the others , so that we have a leg up on time to sell it and push it before other people get out their christmas item . and we should develop one or two features we can really dwell on in our ad campaign . if we try to tell people it has too many great features , um the consumer just gets confused and we do n't get anywhere . so we 've got ta narrow our selection down to li two things , i think , that we gon na say are really great about our our our new product . and i 've been looking around um at what designs every year different things are popular . and in my research this year i found out that fruit and vegetable shapes are really popular . and people are tired of hard plastic and hard metal . they are more back into soft feel , spongy feeling things , things with maybe a little cloth on them . so those are things maybe we wan na look at as far as saleability of the item . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the wrap up of the meeting . </s> project manager : okay . uh our next meeting will be in thirty minutes , and the uh i_d_ is to this is the individual actions to be taken until then , to have the look and feel design , and uh the u_i_d_ is supposed to uh come up with the user interface design , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and the marketing expert with the product evaluation . marketing : okay . project manager : in this phase , the two of you , jana and francine , have to work together on a prototype using modelling clay , it says here . user interface : okay . marketing : project manager : you will receive specific instructions will be sent to you by your coaches . user interface : industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . project manager : um if you have any questions , you know , you you can always uh contact me um or uh or your coach , i suppose . user interface : marketing : wherever they 're hiding ? industrial designer : project manager : user interface : project manager : um so um i think we conclude the meeting here and we come back in uh uh thirty minutes , according to our timetable here . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : thank you very much . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . um welcome to our second meeting . this is the functional design meeting . and i hope you all had a good individual working time . okay , let 's get started . okay , here 's the agenda for the meeting . after the opening um i am going to fulfil the role of secretary , take the meeting minutes . and we 're gon na have three presentations , one from each of you . then we 're gon na discuss some new project requirements . um gon na come to a decision on the functions of the remote control . and then we 're gon na close up the meeting . and we 're gon na do this all in about forty minutes . okay . first i want to discuss the goals of this meeting . first we need to determine the user requirements and the question that we can ask ourselves is what needs and desires are to be fulfilled by this remote control . and then we 're going to determine the technical functions , what is the effect of the apparatus , what actually is it supposed to do , what do people pick up the remote and use it for . and then lastly we 're going to determine its working design , how exactly will it perform its functions , that 's the whole technical side of 'kay i 'll just give you a minute , 'cause it looks like you 're making some notes . user interface : project manager : 'kay . oh , well let 's go ahead and , user interface : project manager : back , previous . user interface : project manager : so what i wan na do right now is hear from all three of you , on your research that you just did . who would like to start us off ? 'kay . user interface : i do n't mind going first . project manager : okay . um do you have a powerpoint or no ? user interface : yeah , it 's in the should be in the m project . project manager : okay . marketing : do you want us to do our powerpoints now or user interface : you know you could you could do it yourself actually . industrial designer : did you send it ? project manager : save it in the project documents . user interface : put it in project documents , project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-mm-mm . this one ? user interface : sure . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . great . user interface : okay . um well , the function of a remote control , as what uh we 've been informed , is basically to send messages to the television set , for example , switch it on , switch it off , go to this channel , go to channel nine , turn the volume up , etcetera . um some of the considerations is just um for example the what it needs to include it 's the numbers , you know , zero to nine , so you can move to a channel , the power button on slash off , the channel going up and down , volume going up and down , and then mute , a mute function . and then functions for v_h_s_ , d_v_d_ , for example , play , rewind , fast-forward , stop , pause , enter . and enter would be for like , you know , the menus . and then other menus for d_v_ as well as tv , whether that means like um we can go and decide the brightness of the screen , things like that , all the more complicated functions of menus . and we can decide if that 's what we want , , um if we want to include that on the remote , if that 's something that would stay on the tv itself , for example . project manager : okay . okay . user interface : these are two examples . um and you can see on the left , it 's got a lot more buttons , project manager : user interface : and i do n't know if you can read it , but it says , step , go to , freeze , um slow , repeat , program , mute , and so those are some of the buttons and so it gives you an idea of s one example . and then on the right , it 's a lot more simpler , it 's got volume , it 's got the play the like circle set , which is play , rewind , but it 's also what is fast-forward is also like next on a menu . so you have functions that are d uh duplicating . project manager : right . user interface : and you have a mute button and then the numbers and the eject , and the power button . so that gives you two different kinds , a more complex and more simple version . okay . project manager : ready . user interface : and then lastly , it 's just the questions that we want to consider like what functions do we want it to include , and how simple , complex it should be ? and what functions it needs to complete . uh , what are needed to complete insulation process , 'cause , you know , that 's something that also has to be considered and it 's gon na be hopefully a one-time thing , when you set it up it should be set to go , but we have to include the functions that can allow it to set up i in the first place . so that 's it . project manager : alright . very good presentation . thank you . you speak with such authority on the matter . user interface : mm . left . project manager : okay . who would like to um follow that one up ? now , that we 've discussed marketing : i can go . project manager : okay . do you want me to run it or you wan na marketing : yeah , you should run it . project manager : okay . functional requirements . marketing : mm yes . project manager : 'kay . alright . now we have courtney with the functional requirements . marketing : yes , okay so we tested a hundred subjects in our lab , and we just we watched them and we also made them fill out a questionnaire , and we found that the users are not typically happy with current remote controls . seventy five percent think they 're ugly . eighty percent want they 've are willing to spend more , which is good news for us um if we make it look fancier , and basically w we just need something that really i mean there 's some other points up there , but they it needs to be snazzy and it but yet simple . user interface : wait . marketing : so that 's really what we need to do . and we need we need it to be simple , yet it needs to be high-tech looking . so user interface : and that meaning what ? marketing : like they like i guess use the buttons a lot . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . i do n't know . it 's from my uh research . project manager : okay , what do you m user interface : right . marketing : my team was n't very clear . project manager : oh , i 'm sorry . user interface : only use ten percent of the buttons . project manager : what do you mean by um the current remote controls do not match well with the operating behaviour of the user , like they have to press the buttons . marketing : that 's okay . i i think it 's like the engineering versus user , project manager : okay . marketing : whereas like the engineering she showed that the engineering ones are more complex project manager : oh , right . marketing : and users do n't really need all of the buttons that are contained on there , because they only use ten percent of the buttons really . project manager : the buttons . okay . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : we only use ten per cent of our brains . user interface : marketing : good point . project manager : it works . marketing : it 's a necessary evil . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : ready for the next slide ? marketing : mm-hmm . and so people say that they typically lose it , as you yourself know , because you probably lose your remote control all the time , much like any small appliance like a cellphone , user interface : lost . marketing : and they we need something simple , because most people , well thirty four percent say that it 's just too much time to learn how to use a new one , and we do n't want to go we do n't want to vary too far from the normal standard remote , but i mean they do need to be able to identify it , and r_s_i_ , i 'm not very sure what that is . project manager : it 's okay . it 's very important . marketing : yes , it is important for the remote control world . project manager : user interface : wait , is that like your ergonomics like your hand movements or something ? project manager : could be , yeah . marketing : uh possibly . industrial designer : do we really need t to provide more information on what r_s_i_ is ? user interface : like marketing : uh yeah , that 's what my web site said , i user interface : channel , volume , power . project manager : i think that 's a pretty good guess though . marketing : do n't know . user interface : marketing : yeah , i would assume so . user interface : it 's like if you 're holding it marketing : i think we 're supposed to know it as remote control experts . project manager : yeah . it 's okay . marketing : but also s so the channel , the volume and the power buttons are the most important on our company website you can find like the specific statistics concerning to how much each button is used , but those are the definitely the top ones . project manager : okay . next slide ? marketing : yes . and so personally i think that we need a modern eye-catching design , but it it really needs to be simple . so saying from y your slide , your presentation , the engineering versus the user-specified remotes , i think that we should go with something that 's more user-friendly . project manager : user-friendly . marketing : where the engineering ones , the boxes , tend to make it look more complicated than it really is . um the functionality of the product really needs to be considered as to like what type of buttons do we really need on it . and it needs to be open to a wide range of consumers , so even though we need a small number of buttons , we also need to take in like are most people going to be using it for a d_v_d_ player , a tivo , what what exactly are we using it for , as well as the age range . so we need a hip , but not a corny marketing scheme for promoting our product . and also we found our team found that speech recognition is it 's like an up-and-coming thing they really consumers are really interested in it , and since our findings found that people are willing to pay more money for a remote for it to be more high-class we could consider it . project manager : and so just to just to clarify by speech recognition you mean they would say , channel five , and the thing would go to channel five ? marketing : i guess so , yeah . user interface : project manager : okay . user interface : to just say , where are you , and thing beeps , you know . project manager : oh , that 'd be lovely . marketing : yeah , i guess we can interpret it like , we can just try out different types of speech recognition within our remote programme . user interface : yeah . project manager : did n't they um did n't our rival companies manufacture a remote that you would press the button on the tv and it would the remote would beep so if you have lost it user interface : it 's kinda like what the remote phone used to do . project manager : mm . oh , yeah , that 's true . user interface : you know like go to the base . project manager : we could definitely include that if we wanted to . user interface : yeah . project manager : if it 's within our price . okay . are we ready for our last presentation , amber ? industrial designer : yeah , i 'm just trying to move it . project manager : okay . industrial designer : 'kay . i think it should be there , working design . user interface : working design . project manager : there we go . user interface : project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : 'kay . uh i did n't get a chance to complete this one , 'cause some of the tools that i was given were frustrating . project manager : oh my bad . marketing : oh that 's fine . industrial designer : uh okay , so method method of our design , i think i just start listing th some of the things that we actually need to put into this . user interface : help me . industrial designer : we need a power source , we 're gon na need a smart chip if we 're gon na make it multi-functional . um extra functions will probably need an additional chip . either that or the smart chip will have to be extremely smart . user interface : marketing : what exactly is a smart chip ? industrial designer : usually a smart chip is just a chip that 's been programmed and designed so that it can complete a fair range of functions . user interface : well , how much extra would the additional chip be ? is that gon na push us over our production costs ? industrial designer : i would n't think so , 'cause we could probably get it from like , in bulk , from a a newer company . and they tend to sell their chips pretty cheap . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . ready ? industrial designer : um yep , nothing here . project manager : that 's okay . user interface : industrial designer : um power source , i figured , batteries , 'cause they 're easily available . typically a remote has either two double a_s or four triple a_s , sometimes three . uh it really kinda depends on the size of the actual remote itself . um a large on-off button , demographically we 're moving towards an older generation of people , so a large on-off button would probably be good . user interface : industrial designer : selection button for various entertainment devices , so you want something that will permit you to select the d_v_d_ player or the tv or the stereo system . um smart chip that perverts uh that permits , sorry , universal application again , something that 'll allow us to skip over between devices , and that 's kinda it . uh this is my fifty second design . user interface : industrial designer : power source over here . we 're gon na have a switch obviously between the power source and the rest of it , and you 're gon na need the switch . um extra bulb could just be for flashiness , um subcomponent which would be like a way of diverting the power to different parts of the the device . um the chip and of course the infra-red bulb , so it can communicate with the various devices that it needs to talk to . marketing : so what exactly we are looking at , is this like the front of the remote ? industrial designer : this is just like a rough schematic . project manager : so this would be the front ? industrial designer : so this is the internal workings . project manager : so the red would be the front of the remote though , right ? marketing : oh okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah , that 's gon na be what 's communicating with the tv , but the other bulb , i think , is good to just to indicate , i 'm doing something , it 's sort of like a reassurance . project manager : the l the light up kind of industrial designer : yeah , so you do n't have to stare at that infra-red , marketing : like that we know the battery 's working . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause you know when the battery starts dying in your remote currently , you have to actually stare at that bulb and go , okay , when i push this button , is it working ? project manager : hmm . it 'd probably be lighting up the key too , marketing : okay . industrial designer : we can skip that whole thing . project manager : right ? 'kay . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so you can put it in the dark . project manager : the buttons . marketing : yeah , and that 's good . project manager : okay . marketing : we should make it glow in the dark . project manager : yeah , definitely . 'kay nex r ready ? industrial designer : yeah , that 's it . project manager : 'kay , any p 'kay ? user interface : marketing : mm 'kay . project manager : anything you wan na add for personal preferences though , you f you said already that we needed a large on-off button , you think . anything else ? industrial designer : i think that that 's a good idea , because you know that 's one of the most important buttons . user interface : just project manager : okay . user interface : well , should it be larger buttons in general , you know like uh the examples that i had , they were swi quite small . so should we try and go for something that has l larger buttons ? marketing : i think we should . like i think that would be in a as in like in for the design , sorry , um . i think we should definitely go with buttons that do n't look like a normal remote , 'cause most remotes have small square buttons , i think we should do something like maybe bigger and round like bubbles . user interface : ovals . yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . okay , let 's talk about all of our we 'll come to decision later about all the components that we need to include , let 's um wrap up this one , and i 'm gon na go back to my powerpoint , 'cause we need to discuss the new project requirements which you might 've already seen flashed up on the screen a bit earlier . wait , come back . alright . sorry , let 's go through this . alright . here we go . new product requirements . first it 's only going to be a tv remote . we 're trying not to over-complicate things . so no d_v_d_ , no tivo , no stereo . industrial designer : okay . project manager : it 's not gon na be multi-functional . hey . and we th need to promote our company more , so we need to somehow include our colour and our company slogan on the remote . we 're trying to get our name out there in the world . okay . and you know what teletext is ? user interface : yeah . project manager : in states we do n't have it , but um it 's like they just have this channel where just has news and weather , kind of sports , user interface : i know . marketing : what is it ? user interface : project manager : it 's very um bland looking , it 's just text on the screen , user interface : yeah , project manager : not even user interface : it 's like black , black and white kind of project manager : yeah , just black with just text . marketing : like running along the bottom ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : you can also get the kind of the tv guide so user interface : it 'll give you the sports . marketing : wait , is it like the weather channel where it 's got like the ticker running on the bottom or something ? project manager : kind of . user interface : except the entire screen . project manager : yeah it 's the whole screen . industrial designer : it 's the entire screen is just running information at random . project manager : so anyway user interface : you can pick sports , you can pick the news , you entertainment , industrial designer : seemingly . user interface : you know it 's like project manager : right . marketing : so it 's like a separate channel from like what you 're watching ? project manager : right . but it 's becoming out-dated now , because of the internet . user interface : yeah . project manager : nobody needs to go to the teletext channel to check the news , and we have twenty four hour news channels now too , so those are our new product requirements . alright . mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so , do we have to include the company colour within that ? project manager : yes . it 's part of the logo . okay . user interface : company colour being yellow . project manager : what we 're going to do right now is come to some decisions , definitive that we can all agree on , about um the target group and the functions and just definite things that we need to do and then we 'll close up the meeting . so . alright . whatever . okay . so our target group is you mentioned um older people ? would it just be universal for everyone , you think ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : because i think even if something has large buttons , as long as they are not childishly large , like even technically user interface : it 's gon na make it nicer . yeah . project manager : non-technically challenged people are gon na use it . i mean they want something user-friendly , so industrial designer : mm well , even if we kept the regular standard size of remote , if we reduced the buttons down to the ones that people are saying that they use the most often and a couple extra , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause they 're saying they only use ten per cent of them , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : then we should be able to accommodate fairly decent sized buttons . project manager : okay , so we want um for our target group would we say , i mean , young and old , all age ranges , all um , not kids obviously , right ? or kids ? marketing : no , kids need to know how to use a remote , i would think . industrial designer : most of them will intuitively pick it up though . marketing : they got ta change between disney channel , cartoon network . project manager : okay , so we 're going to go anywhere from kids to adult in the age range marketing : yeah , i think we need it all . project manager : um what about technic technical um specifications , like how how technically literate are these people who are going to be using our remote ? marketing : um i would say we should say dumber than the average person . project manager : okay . user interface : we should go for the lowest denominator . marketing : yeah . project manager : right , okay . so so they need no technical experience to operate user interface : high school educated . industrial designer : how 'bout little to no , because there is no way that you are gon na be able to make it no . project manager : okay . and we also need to determine the specific functions of this , just to get it all out on paper . so we said it needs to send messages to the tv , needs to change the channel , turn on and off , just basic simple stuff like this . so if you have something just say it and we 'll add it to my meeting minutes . user interface : well it 's channel , on-off button , volume , mute . project manager : mm-hmm , volume . marketing : and channel . yeah . those are the most important ones . project manager : right . and we wan na keep um i 'll make a note here that we wan na keep the number of buttons down . correct , because people only use ten percent . marketing : yeah . project manager : 'kay . hey , what else ? industrial designer : do we want this thing to be able to be found easily ? user interface : project manager : i think so . what do you marketing : sure , yeah . project manager : a finding kind of device or marketing : i need we we need a like homing device . project manager : yeah , ho homing device . industrial designer : like if this is gon na get lost underneath the coach , how are we going to accommodate the quick ability to find it ? user interface : oh right yeah okay . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : tracking . project manager : okay . marketing : because people really are looking for a remote that 's more high-tech . project manager : right . industrial designer : what if we gave it a charger ? and on the charger , just like a phone , like you get a portable phone and it 's got a charger , and if you d leave your phone somewhere , you push the button to find it , and it finds th the phone beeps for you . user interface : but you got a base . marketing : do you think people 'll really go for that though ? industrial designer : it 's useful for the remote phone . marketing : because yeah . project manager : would that add to our costs at all , i wonder ? marketing : i would think so , because you 'd have to develop a base . project manager : right . user interface : well , if you have the base , you could start putting in a charger and then you have a different kind of battery . industrial designer : yeah . rechargeable batteries are cheaper usually . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . i i think we can make a decision about that later . uh we 'll still put that as a point that we need to discuss . so that would include battery source power source rather . is it going to have a charger , or is it going to be run strictly off batteries ? and we also need to deal with the issue you mentioned of speech recognition , if we want that . marketing : right . user interface : well , then we could if we have the speech recognition then we can start aiming at a like another kind of more handicapped disabled uh demo demographic . marketing : well , th there 's the people who desire speech recognition , there 's the different demog demographics have different desires , i do n't know if you guys ge project manager : you could um we could hook it up . marketing : it would n't copy onto the the thing 'cause it 's black , but all the different age groups have different desires for speech recognition . so basically older people do n't really care . it 's really the people twenty five to thirty five . i feel those are the people that really watch a lot of tv though . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : they 're the ones that get addicted to soap operas and industrial designer : project manager : and if and if we introduced it when they 're this age , they 're going to probably always buy a remote that has user interface : well marketing : just sitcoms and stuff . right . user interface : well , then then do you put the voice recognition do you put the r like receiver on the actual television , in the base , or in the actual remote , marketing : so user interface : 'cause then you 've already got remote in your hand , why you just gon na speak to the remote , project manager : right . user interface : whereas if you just speak in general and you do n't have to have the remote in your hand and like talk at it . project manager : yeah . and the speech recognition could be part of the lost and found device , too . if we said , find remote , locate remote , or something . marketing : right . project manager : a certain phrase then it could beep . i dunno . just throwing it out there . marketing : yeah . project manager : well marketing : user interface : still fifteen minutes . project manager : okay , anything else we wan na discuss ? user interface : um . well , do we wan na include the numbers like zero through nine ? can we conceive of leaving them out ? marketing : wait , on the remote itself ? user interface : yeah , like you have one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine , zero . project manager : how how , marketing : well , we definitely need those . project manager : yeah , how would you leave those out ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : well , i do n't know , i mean , if you can like well project manager : unless you could say the channel . user interface : i do n't know , if there 's just a way of leaving them out ? industrial designer : i think people would find that too foreign . project manager : yeah , that 's true . marketing : yeah . project manager : and also remember that in this day in age we need , you know , like a hundred button , too . marketing : you definitely need project manager : i used to have a remote that did not even go up past like fifty . so i could n't whenever i got cable , i had to get a new tv . industrial designer : it 's when we get satellite . project manager : mm . get your own remote , or digital cable . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : 'kay . um . i guess , we 're gon na discuss the project financing later , making sure that we can fit all of the stuff that we want to on our budget . um . industrial designer : yeah , 'cause i do n't have any material pricing information available to me at the moment , so project manager : 'kay . and do n't forget we need to include the colour of our company and the logo . user interface : the colour being yellow ? marketing : wait . project manager : i 'm guessing . and the r_r_ . user interface : and how do we marketing : i feel like a ye i feel like a yellow one would be too garish . industrial designer : r_ the double r_ . project manager : we could just have the logo in yellow , user interface : ca n't make it entirely project manager : or maybe a yellow light for the keys . industrial designer : or is the l marketing : or put like stripes , oh yeah , yellow lights . industrial designer : yeah , yellow could be and it could does n't have to be huge . user interface : well if you have like a marketing : yeah . user interface : hang on . if you have this sort of strip kind of down at the bottom the base of it , just like yellow with the r_r_ . project manager : right . so we 've simplified , we do n't need all those um play , fast-forward , rewind , user interface : right , yeah . project manager : or no menu buttons . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we 've pretty much pared it down to on-off , volume , mute , channel up and down , um the numbers yeah . user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : um can we go back to i 'm gon na look really quickly back at those user interface : two examples . project manager : examples and see if there is anything . user interface : yeah . project manager : which one is yours , technical functions or functional requirement ? user interface : oh , it 's a yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , audi audio settings and screen settings , we need those like audio settings mono , stereo , pitch , screen settings like brightness , colour , or do we just want that accessed accessed from the television itself ? project manager : the tv . i think that that 's fine just for the tv . i mean how often does the average user need to do that kind of stuff ? user interface : well , the other option is sort of like down at the bottom , like farther away , you just have this sort of box inset where it 's like the buttons that you do n't use as much , but occasionally you will use . and so it 's like marketing : yeah , 'cause we need to we definitely need to have buttons for like sub-titles and things like that . it 's 'cause the foreign film market is expanding and stuff , and like on television like i know f k living in los angeles it 's tons of spanish network television if it has english sub-titles it 's definitely helpful . project manager : could n't we do that all through one button , something , a menu button , that pops up with a menu on the tv that says , you know , audio , video , whatever , language , user interface : i do n't well , i do n't know . project manager : you know ? user interface : right . marketing : so we need up , down , and side-to-side buttons . project manager : for the menus . user interface : well , that could be no you could just double up with like the channel or the volume buttons . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's true . user interface : channel is just up and down . marketing : yeah , okay . okay , yeah . user interface : and then add a project manager : something that looks mayb you know . marketing : such as , yeah , the one the one over there on the left the engineering centred one . project manager : y right , right right right . user interface : yeah . project manager : that one ? user interface : so we just have it like add a menu button then for the various things needed , project manager : right . user interface : including v voice recognition if we have any like settings for voice recognition now project manager : in the middle perhaps . user interface : included in the menu . marketing : ooh , i just got an idea for a design . project manager : good . anybody have anything else they 'd like to bring up in this meeting ? industrial designer : i had something , but i forgot . </s>
<s> summarize marketing 's presentation on functional requirements . </s> project manager : 'kay . alright . now we have courtney with the functional requirements . marketing : yes , okay so we tested a hundred subjects in our lab , and we just we watched them and we also made them fill out a questionnaire , and we found that the users are not typically happy with current remote controls . seventy five percent think they 're ugly . eighty percent want they 've are willing to spend more , which is good news for us um if we make it look fancier , and basically w we just need something that really i mean there 's some other points up there , but they it needs to be snazzy and it but yet simple . user interface : wait . marketing : so that 's really what we need to do . and we need we need it to be simple , yet it needs to be high-tech looking . so user interface : and that meaning what ? marketing : like they like i guess use the buttons a lot . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . i do n't know . it 's from my uh research . project manager : okay , what do you m user interface : right . marketing : my team was n't very clear . project manager : oh , i 'm sorry . user interface : only use ten percent of the buttons . project manager : what do you mean by um the current remote controls do not match well with the operating behaviour of the user , like they have to press the buttons . marketing : that 's okay . i i think it 's like the engineering versus user , project manager : okay . marketing : whereas like the engineering she showed that the engineering ones are more complex project manager : oh , right . marketing : and users do n't really need all of the buttons that are contained on there , because they only use ten percent of the buttons really . project manager : the buttons . okay . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : we only use ten per cent of our brains . user interface : marketing : good point . project manager : it works . marketing : it 's a necessary evil . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : ready for the next slide ? marketing : mm-hmm . and so people say that they typically lose it , as you yourself know , because you probably lose your remote control all the time , much like any small appliance like a cellphone , user interface : lost . marketing : and they we need something simple , because most people , well thirty four percent say that it 's just too much time to learn how to use a new one , and we do n't want to go we do n't want to vary too far from the normal standard remote , but i mean they do need to be able to identify it , and r_s_i_ , i 'm not very sure what that is . project manager : it 's okay . it 's very important . marketing : yes , it is important for the remote control world . project manager : user interface : wait , is that like your ergonomics like your hand movements or something ? project manager : could be , yeah . marketing : uh possibly . industrial designer : do we really need t to provide more information on what r_s_i_ is ? user interface : like marketing : uh yeah , that 's what my web site said , i user interface : channel , volume , power . project manager : i think that 's a pretty good guess though . marketing : do n't know . user interface : marketing : yeah , i would assume so . user interface : it 's like if you 're holding it marketing : i think we 're supposed to know it as remote control experts . project manager : yeah . it 's okay . marketing : but also s so the channel , the volume and the power buttons are the most important on our company website you can find like the specific statistics concerning to how much each button is used , but those are the definitely the top ones . project manager : okay . next slide ? marketing : yes . and so personally i think that we need a modern eye-catching design , but it it really needs to be simple . so saying from y your slide , your presentation , the engineering versus the user-specified remotes , i think that we should go with something that 's more user-friendly . project manager : user-friendly . marketing : where the engineering ones , the boxes , tend to make it look more complicated than it really is . um the functionality of the product really needs to be considered as to like what type of buttons do we really need on it . and it needs to be open to a wide range of consumers , so even though we need a small number of buttons , we also need to take in like are most people going to be using it for a d_v_d_ player , a tivo , what what exactly are we using it for , as well as the age range . so we need a hip , but not a corny marketing scheme for promoting our product . and also we found our team found that speech recognition is it 's like an up-and-coming thing they really consumers are really interested in it , and since our findings found that people are willing to pay more money for a remote for it to be more high-class we could consider it . project manager : and so just to just to clarify by speech recognition you mean they would say , channel five , and the thing would go to channel five ? marketing : i guess so , yeah . user interface : project manager : okay . user interface : to just say , where are you , and thing beeps , you know . project manager : oh , that 'd be lovely . marketing : yeah , i guess we can interpret it like , we can just try out different types of speech recognition within our remote programme . user interface : yeah . project manager : did n't they um did n't our rival companies manufacture a remote that you would press the button on the tv and it would the remote would beep so if you have lost it user interface : it 's kinda like what the remote phone used to do . project manager : mm . oh , yeah , that 's true . user interface : you know like go to the base . project manager : we could definitely include that if we wanted to . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the lab tests tell them about the design of buttons ? </s> marketing : like they like i guess use the buttons a lot . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . i do n't know . it 's from my uh research . project manager : okay , what do you m user interface : right . marketing : my team was n't very clear . project manager : oh , i 'm sorry . user interface : only use ten percent of the buttons . project manager : what do you mean by um the current remote controls do not match well with the operating behaviour of the user , like they have to press the buttons . marketing : that 's okay . i i think it 's like the engineering versus user , project manager : okay . marketing : whereas like the engineering she showed that the engineering ones are more complex project manager : oh , right . marketing : and users do n't really need all of the buttons that are contained on there , because they only use ten percent of the buttons really . project manager : the buttons . okay . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . okay . industrial designer : we only use ten per cent of our brains . user interface : marketing : good point . project manager : it works . marketing : it 's a necessary evil . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> what could they do to make the remote more modern and high-class in regard to its function design ? </s> marketing : mm-hmm . and so people say that they typically lose it , as you yourself know , because you probably lose your remote control all the time , much like any small appliance like a cellphone , user interface : lost . marketing : and they we need something simple , because most people , well thirty four percent say that it 's just too much time to learn how to use a new one , and we do n't want to go we do n't want to vary too far from the normal standard remote , yes . and so personally i think that we need a modern eye-catching design , but it it really needs to be simple . so saying from y your slide , your presentation , the engineering versus the user-specified remotes , i think that we should go with something that 's more user-friendly . and also we found our team found that speech recognition is it 's like an up-and-coming thing they really consumers are really interested in it , and since our findings found that people are willing to pay more money for a remote for it to be more high-class we could consider it . project manager : and so just to just to clarify by speech recognition you mean they would say , channel five , and the thing would go to channel five ? marketing : i guess so , yeah . user interface : project manager : okay . user interface : to just say , where are you , and thing beeps , you know . project manager : oh , that 'd be lovely . marketing : yeah , i guess we can interpret it like , we can just try out different types of speech recognition within our remote programme . user interface : yeah . project manager : did n't they um did n't our rival companies manufacture a remote that you would press the button on the tv and it would the remote would beep so if you have lost it user interface : it 's kinda like what the remote phone used to do . project manager : mm . oh , yeah , that 's true . user interface : you know like go to the base . </s>
<s> summarize the additional ideas on function design which the team brought up based on previous presentations . </s> project manager : okay . okay , let 's talk about all of our we 'll come to decision later about all the components that we need to include , let 's um wrap up this one , and i 'm gon na go back to my powerpoint , 'cause we need to discuss the new project requirements which you might 've already seen flashed up on the screen a bit earlier . wait , come back . alright . sorry , let 's go through this . alright . here we go . new product requirements . first it 's only going to be a tv remote . we 're trying not to over-complicate things . so no d_v_d_ , no tivo , no stereo . industrial designer : okay . project manager : it 's not gon na be multi-functional . hey . and we th need to promote our company more , so we need to somehow include our colour and our company slogan on the remote . we 're trying to get our name out there in the world . okay . and you know what teletext is ? user interface : yeah . project manager : in states we do n't have it , but um it 's like they just have this channel where just has news and weather , kind of sports , user interface : i know . marketing : what is it ? user interface : project manager : it 's very um bland looking , it 's just text on the screen , user interface : yeah , project manager : not even user interface : it 's like black , black and white kind of project manager : yeah , just black with just text . marketing : like running along the bottom ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : you can also get the kind of the tv guide so user interface : it 'll give you the sports . marketing : wait , is it like the weather channel where it 's got like the ticker running on the bottom or something ? project manager : kind of . user interface : except the entire screen . project manager : yeah it 's the whole screen . industrial designer : it 's the entire screen is just running information at random . project manager : so anyway user interface : you can pick sports , you can pick the news , you entertainment , industrial designer : seemingly . user interface : you know it 's like project manager : right . marketing : so it 's like a separate channel from like what you 're watching ? project manager : right . but it 's becoming out-dated now , because of the internet . user interface : yeah . project manager : nobody needs to go to the teletext channel to check the news , and we have twenty four hour news channels now too , so those are our new product requirements . alright . mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so , do we have to include the company colour within that ? project manager : yes . it 's part of the logo . okay . user interface : company colour being yellow . project manager : what we 're going to do right now is come to some decisions , definitive that we can all agree on , about um the target group and the functions and just definite things that we need to do and then we 'll close up the meeting . so . alright . whatever . okay . so our target group is you mentioned um older people ? would it just be universal for everyone , you think ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : because i think even if something has large buttons , as long as they are not childishly large , like even technically user interface : it 's gon na make it nicer . yeah . project manager : non-technically challenged people are gon na use it . i mean they want something user-friendly , so industrial designer : mm well , even if we kept the regular standard size of remote , if we reduced the buttons down to the ones that people are saying that they use the most often and a couple extra , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause they 're saying they only use ten per cent of them , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : then we should be able to accommodate fairly decent sized buttons . project manager : okay , so we want um for our target group would we say , i mean , young and old , all age ranges , all um , not kids obviously , right ? or kids ? marketing : no , kids need to know how to use a remote , i would think . industrial designer : most of them will intuitively pick it up though . marketing : they got ta change between disney channel , cartoon network . project manager : okay , so we 're going to go anywhere from kids to adult in the age range marketing : yeah , i think we need it all . project manager : um what about technic technical um specifications , like how how technically literate are these people who are going to be using our remote ? marketing : um i would say we should say dumber than the average person . project manager : okay . user interface : we should go for the lowest denominator . marketing : yeah . project manager : right , okay . so so they need no technical experience to operate user interface : high school educated . industrial designer : how 'bout little to no , because there is no way that you are gon na be able to make it no . project manager : okay . and we also need to determine the specific functions of this , just to get it all out on paper . so we said it needs to send messages to the tv , needs to change the channel , turn on and off , just basic simple stuff like this . so if you have something just say it and we 'll add it to my meeting minutes . user interface : well it 's channel , on-off button , volume , mute . project manager : mm-hmm , volume . marketing : and channel . yeah . those are the most important ones . project manager : right . and we wan na keep um i 'll make a note here that we wan na keep the number of buttons down . correct , because people only use ten percent . marketing : yeah . project manager : 'kay . hey , what else ? industrial designer : do we want this thing to be able to be found easily ? user interface : project manager : i think so . what do you marketing : sure , yeah . project manager : a finding kind of device or marketing : i need we we need a like homing device . project manager : yeah , ho homing device . industrial designer : like if this is gon na get lost underneath the coach , how are we going to accommodate the quick ability to find it ? user interface : oh right yeah okay . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : tracking . project manager : okay . marketing : because people really are looking for a remote that 's more high-tech . project manager : right . industrial designer : what if we gave it a charger ? and on the charger , just like a phone , like you get a portable phone and it 's got a charger , and if you d leave your phone somewhere , you push the button to find it , and it finds th the phone beeps for you . user interface : but you got a base . marketing : do you think people 'll really go for that though ? industrial designer : it 's useful for the remote phone . marketing : because yeah . project manager : would that add to our costs at all , i wonder ? marketing : i would think so , because you 'd have to develop a base . project manager : right . user interface : well , if you have the base , you could start putting in a charger and then you have a different kind of battery . industrial designer : yeah . rechargeable batteries are cheaper usually . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . i i think we can make a decision about that later . uh we 'll still put that as a point that we need to discuss . so that would include battery source power source rather . is it going to have a charger , or is it going to be run strictly off batteries ? and we also need to deal with the issue you mentioned of speech recognition , if we want that . marketing : right . user interface : well , then we could if we have the speech recognition then we can start aiming at a like another kind of more handicapped disabled uh demo demographic . marketing : well , th there 's the people who desire speech recognition , there 's the different demog demographics have different desires , i do n't know if you guys ge project manager : you could um we could hook it up . marketing : it would n't copy onto the the thing 'cause it 's black , but all the different age groups have different desires for speech recognition . so basically older people do n't really care . it 's really the people twenty five to thirty five . i feel those are the people that really watch a lot of tv though . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : they 're the ones that get addicted to soap operas and industrial designer : project manager : and if and if we introduced it when they 're this age , they 're going to probably always buy a remote that has user interface : well marketing : just sitcoms and stuff . right . user interface : well , then then do you put the voice recognition do you put the r like receiver on the actual television , in the base , or in the actual remote , marketing : so user interface : 'cause then you 've already got remote in your hand , why you just gon na speak to the remote , project manager : right . user interface : whereas if you just speak in general and you do n't have to have the remote in your hand and like talk at it . project manager : yeah . and the speech recognition could be part of the lost and found device , too . if we said , find remote , locate remote , or something . marketing : right . project manager : a certain phrase then it could beep . i dunno . just throwing it out there . marketing : yeah . project manager : well marketing : user interface : still fifteen minutes . project manager : okay , anything else we wan na discuss ? user interface : um . well , do we wan na include the numbers like zero through nine ? can we conceive of leaving them out ? marketing : wait , on the remote itself ? user interface : yeah , like you have one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine , zero . project manager : how how , marketing : well , we definitely need those . project manager : yeah , how would you leave those out ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : well , i do n't know , i mean , if you can like well project manager : unless you could say the channel . user interface : i do n't know , if there 's just a way of leaving them out ? industrial designer : i think people would find that too foreign . project manager : yeah , that 's true . marketing : yeah . project manager : and also remember that in this day in age we need , you know , like a hundred button , too . marketing : you definitely need project manager : i used to have a remote that did not even go up past like fifty . so i could n't whenever i got cable , i had to get a new tv . industrial designer : it 's when we get satellite . project manager : mm . get your own remote , or digital cable . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : 'kay . um . i guess , we 're gon na discuss the project financing later , making sure that we can fit all of the stuff that we want to on our budget . um . industrial designer : yeah , 'cause i do n't have any material pricing information available to me at the moment , so project manager : 'kay . and do n't forget we need to include the colour of our company and the logo . user interface : the colour being yellow ? marketing : wait . project manager : i 'm guessing . and the r_r_ . user interface : and how do we marketing : i feel like a ye i feel like a yellow one would be too garish . industrial designer : r_ the double r_ . project manager : we could just have the logo in yellow , user interface : ca n't make it entirely project manager : or maybe a yellow light for the keys . industrial designer : or is the l marketing : or put like stripes , oh yeah , yellow lights . industrial designer : yeah , yellow could be and it could does n't have to be huge . user interface : well if you have like a marketing : yeah . user interface : hang on . if you have this sort of strip kind of down at the bottom the base of it , just like yellow with the r_r_ . project manager : right . so we 've simplified , we do n't need all those um play , fast-forward , rewind , user interface : right , yeah . project manager : or no menu buttons . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we 've pretty much pared it down to on-off , volume , mute , channel up and down , um the numbers yeah . user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : um can we go back to i 'm gon na look really quickly back at those user interface : two examples . project manager : examples and see if there is anything . user interface : yeah . project manager : which one is yours , technical functions or functional requirement ? user interface : oh , it 's a yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , audi audio settings and screen settings , we need those like audio settings mono , stereo , pitch , screen settings like brightness , colour , or do we just want that accessed accessed from the television itself ? project manager : the tv . i think that that 's fine just for the tv . i mean how often does the average user need to do that kind of stuff ? user interface : well , the other option is sort of like down at the bottom , like farther away , you just have this sort of box inset where it 's like the buttons that you do n't use as much , but occasionally you will use . and so it 's like marketing : yeah , 'cause we need to we definitely need to have buttons for like sub-titles and things like that . it 's 'cause the foreign film market is expanding and stuff , and like on television like i know f k living in los angeles it 's tons of spanish network television if it has english sub-titles it 's definitely helpful . project manager : could n't we do that all through one button , something , a menu button , that pops up with a menu on the tv that says , you know , audio , video , whatever , language , user interface : i do n't well , i do n't know . project manager : you know ? user interface : right . marketing : so we need up , down , and side-to-side buttons . project manager : for the menus . user interface : well , that could be no you could just double up with like the channel or the volume buttons . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's true . user interface : channel is just up and down . marketing : yeah , okay . okay , yeah . user interface : and then add a project manager : something that looks mayb you know . marketing : such as , yeah , the one the one over there on the left the engineering centred one . project manager : y right , right right right . user interface : yeah . project manager : that one ? user interface : so we just have it like add a menu button then for the various things needed , project manager : right . user interface : including v voice recognition if we have any like settings for voice recognition now project manager : in the middle perhaps . user interface : included in the menu . marketing : ooh , i just got an idea for a design . project manager : good . anybody have anything else they 'd like to bring up in this meeting ? </s>
<s> in the discussion of function design , how could the team realize the lost-and-found function of their remote ? </s> industrial designer : what if we gave it a charger ? and on the charger , just like a phone , like you get a portable phone and it 's got a charger , and if you d leave your phone somewhere , you push the button to find it , and it finds th the phone beeps for you . user interface : but you got a base . marketing : do you think people 'll really go for that though ? industrial designer : it 's useful for the remote phone . marketing : because yeah . project manager : would that add to our costs at all , i wonder ? marketing : i would think so , because you 'd have to develop a base . project manager : right . user interface : well , if you have the base , you could start putting in a charger and then you have a different kind of battery . industrial designer : yeah . rechargeable batteries are cheaper usually . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . and the speech recognition could be part of the lost and found device , too . if we said , find remote , locate remote , or something . marketing : right . project manager : a certain phrase then it could beep . i dunno . just throwing it out there . marketing : yeah . project manager : well </s>
<s> what did the team decide on designing buttons for the remote ? </s> user interface : um . well , do we wan na include the numbers like zero through nine ? can we conceive of leaving them out ? marketing : wait , on the remote itself ? user interface : yeah , like you have one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine , zero . project manager : how how , marketing : well , we definitely need those . project manager : yeah , how would you leave those out ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : well , i do n't know , i mean , if you can like well project manager : unless you could say the channel . user interface : i do n't know , if there 's just a way of leaving them out ? industrial designer : i think people would find that too foreign . project manager : yeah , that 's true . marketing : yeah . project manager : and also remember that in this day in age we need , you know , like a hundred button , too . marketing : you definitely need project manager : i used to have a remote that did not even go up past like fifty . so i could n't whenever i got cable , i had to get a new tv . industrial designer : it 's when we get satellite . project manager : mm . get your own remote , or digital cable . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , audi audio settings and screen settings , we need those like audio settings mono , stereo , pitch , screen settings like brightness , colour , or do we just want that accessed accessed from the television itself ? project manager : the tv . i think that that 's fine just for the tv . i mean how often does the average user need to do that kind of stuff ? user interface : well , the other option is sort of like down at the bottom , like farther away , you just have this sort of box inset where it 's like the buttons that you do n't use as much , but occasionally you will use . and so it 's like marketing : yeah , 'cause we need to we definitely need to have buttons for like sub-titles and things like that . it 's 'cause the foreign film market is expanding and stuff , and like on television like i know f k living in los angeles it 's tons of spanish network television if it has english sub-titles it 's definitely helpful . project manager : could n't we do that all through one button , something , a menu button , that pops up with a menu on the tv that says , you know , audio , video , whatever , language , user interface : i do n't well , i do n't know . project manager : you know ? user interface : right . marketing : so we need up , down , and side-to-side buttons . project manager : for the menus . user interface : well , that could be no you could just double up with like the channel or the volume buttons . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's true . user interface : channel is just up and down . marketing : yeah , okay . okay , yeah . user interface : and then add a project manager : something that looks mayb you know . marketing : such as , yeah , the one the one over there on the left the engineering centred one . project manager : y right , right right right . user interface : yeah . project manager : that one ? user interface : so we just have it like add a menu button then for the various things needed , project manager : right . user interface : including v voice recognition if we have any like settings for voice recognition now project manager : in the middle perhaps . user interface : included in the menu . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : project manager : okay , welcome to the second meeting of this uh design group . um i 'll briefly go through the uh notes of the of the last meeting uh just done in in note form and i have n't attributed anything to individuals , because we 're working strictly as a team here and uh n nobody 's working equally , user interface : sorry . project manager : so uh . um we we s we saw that the the problems with existing remote controls were the uh b a boring shape and boring colour . um and and we s we saw that the um what we needed to do was to to make sure the device um controls several items , that switching was easy , that you should n't need to point the thing at uh anything in particular , um that it need to be contoured to make it interesting , that the keys might be concave , simply because that has n't been done before that we know of . um should have interchangeable fascias so people can personalise it , um illuminated so that people can see it in dark rooms . um and that people might want it as as in addition to their existing remote controls . um and that it sh it should just always work , whenever you uh um mm uh use it . and that it should n't be too small , mm that it it gets lost . um . now uh uh i 'll shortly ask for for three three presentations . uh before i do that , however , i will go through some new project requirements that um the the management have placed on us and uh will be challenging in terms of what we discussed at the first meeting . um the uh the ma the management has had it 's own thoughts on this and uh the they do n't necessarily agree with with what we uh we thought . um and and then we 'll as a result of that we will then talk through the the functions that we see the the device um actually b carrying out , and we have uh forty minutes to do this in and i uh anyway . okay . now , the n the new requirements are um the the management team see that um teletext is no longer of any importance given the uh the rise of the internet . um and and they want it only to cover televisions . um now , what is not q quite clear from their directive is whether they mean th they do n't want it to cover teletext or whether they do n't want it to cover , you know , videos , d_v_d_s , um satellite boxes , which uh i mean we saw as being fundamental to the uh to the exercise . the um the actual wording of the directive is that it should cover television only . um and on that basis um i i think we we need to bear that in mind , um but possibly uh keep at the backs of our minds that the reality that people even when they uh no longer they do n't look at teletext anymore , they certainly do look at other things . um the device has to incorporate the company logo and colours . um the the logo uh being at b the bottom of the screen there , the the the two r_s in grey against uh a yellow background . um now this does n't necessarily mean that we have to give up some of our ideas about making it attractive to the t to the market . but uh do do introduce some some constraints as to how we might do that . um it also has to be simple , which to some extent goes along w with the first one , and that we 've already said that it must be simple 'cause that 's what people want anyway . um but they also want it to be simple to get it to the market quickly , which um mm uh is is is their choice , but uh um we we need to talk that through . um okay , so uh after the meeting it 'll be summarised and uh industrial designer : user interface : project manager : um notes sent out and uh etcetera . okay , so we 'll first of all mm have individual reports from everybody . um again i there is no order of precedence here um so i i i 'll leave it up to you to who who who thinks they would like to go go first ? marketing : uh i do n't mind . project manager : p fine . marketing : uh can i steal the cable ? project manager : oh sorry , you can indeed . marketing : cheers . project manager : marketing : i got a how do i start there ? project manager : oh , if you click on the um uh the one that that looks like a projection screen , no the one to the right of that . that one . marketing : that one . cool . well these are functionality requirements from the our our guys down in the the research lab . took hundred people and covered all the aspects of what um is needed by people and what they want to see . um everything kinda from functionality and how individual functions are how mu how how often they 're used and how much their necessary and stuff . and general opinions about current current remotes . see that , as we kinda noticed , seventy five percent of people find their remote controls ugly . so some kind of a new style should be incorporated that 's less ugly . uh along with um looking less ugly , if it looks better , eighty percent of people said they 'd spend more money on it . which is a a plus for us , if we can make it look better , it 'd be uh more cost effective and we can put the price up . current remote controls do not match the operating behaviour of the user . i can empl i kinda take that to mean as um they they do n't uh they , yeah , they only use they only work for the television or yeah like as in in my flat i 've got six remote controls for a stereo system , a digital box , a d_v_d_ player , a video player and tv . if it was uh i mean th my behaviour is to use multiple things at the same time and multiple remotes are n't really matched well to my behaviour . uh again , seventy five percent is seventy five percent of users say they zap a lot . i took to mean that they just they use it a lot , they use it regularly rather than standing up and manually change channels or volume . and uh yeah , uh i think the big issue is fifty percent users only use ten percent of the buttons , 'cause uh wh if we got a remote that like well we 'll have some buttons taken off by the lack of teletext , but uh oh and we 're going to see uh on the uh that some of the functions like audio settings are n't h hardly ever used and used very are n't considered relevant by the user . so i think maybe fewer buttons , which also make the design look sleeker , i dunno . uh um yeah and uh frustrations of like people losing remote control . i dunno maybe some kind of system of you press a button on the tv or maybe that 's b it would have to incorporate , but like some kind of system where you can f use something else to find the remote control . maybe like it 'll beep or something . and um , yep , the uh time taken to learn new remote controls is uh do n't want to make it too complicated , easy to use for uh new like first time users and stuff . and uh repetitive strain injury , i suppose we should make it more comfortable and make ma possibly even use have to make it , yeah , fewer buttons , like i was saying about the whole mice the mouse idea of it feels more comfortable . maybe do n't even have to hold it as such . project manager : gosh , must be some telly addicts out there if they get r_s_i_ from their television remote , is all i can say . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : marketing : but uh yeah . it also asked um if we would if people would pay more for speech recognition project manager : marketing : and younger people say they would . and uh there was another section on our on the report for uh lcd displays , but the data was n't there , so . i do n't actually know what the results for that were , project manager : mm . right . mm . marketing : so . may be incrementally emitting , but yeah . project manager : yeah , i must say that um the uh i c ca n't remember what um f you know phone service i was using the other day , but that had sorta speech recognition which worked uh remarkably well , so that is indeed a uh um a thought marketing : and uh it would cut out the r_s_i_ as well if you project manager : and it it cuts out uh i was was gon na say , you ca n't get a lot of r_s_i_ , industrial designer : project manager : j just get jaw ache . okay , sorry . marketing : yeah , um oh yeah , so possibly the speech recognition is possibly something could add into the design . oh , i 've got some other things i could n't fit onto this presentation . um . you see this okay ? almost no ? it 's sorry it 's a bit . i 'll read out to you . uh functionality , uh like people 's opinions on functionality , the relevance to the remote and how often they 're used . so um like the power . using the using the d swi the power switch to switch on tv is a high relevance of nine , but it 's not frequently used . you see what i mean ? project manager : yeah . marketing : whereas channel selection , which is very high relevance project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : is used the most . so m we can maybe even start to cut down on or i was possibly even thinking of a design that maybe some of the buttons are hidden from everyday use . maybe like uh a folding ledge or something . so that we can maybe go into the channel settings and the audio settings , which are low relevance project manager : mm-hmm . i mean marketing : and rarely used . and keep the v volume selection and channel selection very easily user interface : it could be oh uh i was just gon na say uh maybe like the flip phones that they use ? have you seen the new mo mobile phones project manager : yeah . user interface : that flip out and they have the like texting , and then the numbers on one side , marketing : oh yeah . user interface : you could have the most used buttons on top and flip it out or something . project manager : hmm , hmm . marketing : yeah , like the one that like slides back project manager : uh . should we actually bite the bullet here ? marketing : and the buttons are concealed underneath . user interface : yeah . project manager : if people really do n't use those buttons to any extent at all um remove them altogether . marketing : just remove them completely ? project manager : we we could actually have we could actually have a remote control with um user interface : that might be the project manager : i wonder whether we could get the remote control with no buttons at all if we went for voice recognition , given that um the um now the the age structure we were looking at um i mean w we had usage by age structure , what we did n't have was what proportion of people using remotes were in those particular age groups . now do we know whether they marketing : uh yeah . project manager : forty no sorry for forty five to fifty five age group , uh to put myself right in the middle of it , um u use remote controls to a great extent . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : yes we marketing : um no this is for pay more for speech recognition . project manager : that would 've speech recogn right . so , we 're looking at um well again , we do n't know the relative proportion the relative numbers in the age groups . marketing : yeah , that 's true . project manager : if we wanted something different , truly different , then the buttonless remote control w would be it . industrial designer : p well the only problem i can think of with that is if you 've got a lot of people that do n't wan na be bothered learning how to use new rem remote controls . if you just kind of take away everything that they 're used to knowing , that 's gon na be quite a change . project manager : but if you just lift it up and say , channel one or b_b_c_ industrial designer : it might marketing : or even i mean you could even just have it left on . user interface : maybe i marketing : you could just put it down once on top your tv and never have to user interface : yeah , have a big kind of like the satellite box or the cable box project manager : user interface : and have it just go on the tv and then it does n't matter where in the room you are , you wo n't lose it . marketing : yeah . project manager : it c well it i can i can see technical problems with that in terms of the , you know , the sound from the television , because if somebody actually on the television says uh uh , you know , i_tv and you 're watching b_b_c_ then then it might um change itself , marketing : b_b_c_ one . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : oh . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : project manager : so it probably needs to be um possibly actually need a button on it user interface : yeah , that 's true . project manager : just to activate it . marketing : oh yeah . project manager : or or something just to identify that you 've lifted it up and it 's use . and and then just say , oh i do n't know , a thought and and then user interface : yeah . project manager : uh i mean that that would certainly be uh truly different . um 'cause uh you know audio settings , nought point eight percent . i mean if they were n't there , would people miss them ? marketing : mm-mm . industrial designer : but look at the importance of them . the volume settings . project manager : marketing : relevance of two out of ten , project manager : vol volume , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yes um industrial designer : they 're not used often project manager : th industrial designer : but they are quite important when they 're used . project manager : w we need to s identify things that people actually need industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and and it 's a function of frequency and relevance . and um i would say ignoring ig ignoring power for the moment , um the channel and volume and th w w given given that we 've been told to ignore teletext . uh channel and volume are the only ones that marketing : yeah . project manager : uh would appear to be essential . marketing : stand out . project manager : um . so if we can design something that that looks interesting , know , or looks different , um incorporates the the logo and and the colours and um we can still have our interchangeable fascias even if it 's the yellow and grey , um and uh i dunno , buttons or or buttons as an option . marketing : uh i just had a thought actually , sorry to interrupt . project manager : do , please . marketing : uh you were saying about um it could technical problems of like uh someone on the television saying a channel number and it changed project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : we could maybe have like an activation word . project manager : you cer certainly could . marketing : 'cause i 've seen i 've seen this used on computers before , where you just you address the remote , project manager : depe uh i depends whether um marketing : you address the computer , and then give it a command . project manager : if we want to make this so simple that anybody can walk into the room and lift it up and say marketing : oh i see . oh yeah , i see . project manager : b_b_c_ one . um okay , i mean you could print actually print it on the uh marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . project manager : device itself . um . marketing : i mean i 'm just thinking of the point of view of peop you could still like lose this remote . project manager : s th this i th that 's always gon na be a problem i think . industrial designer : project manager : um and i i i s so i suppose one um could make it so desirable that if people lose it they immediately go out and buy another one . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : anyway , sorry , carry on . do you want to just carry on with or marketing : i i interrupted you , project manager : no no , no uh b i was in the middle of in the middle of your report there . marketing : sorry . oh okay . um well , i was just kinda wrapping up there . yeah , project manager : mm okay . marketing : i was thinking um , yeah , maybe such things are relevant . we could make things much more f i think the the eighty percent of people would spend more on uh a remote uh that looks better , combined with uh decrease the or take out the limited functio functions that we do n't really use much . alright take out teletext , but as for channel settings and stuff it might it might um turn people somewhe peop some people that want the whole functionality away . but , since if we 're marketing a more kind of fashionable approach then it 'd it would be fashion and fashion over practicality . project manager : mm-hmm . s s we could we could make it dual function voice recognition and still have buttons on it um marketing : oh , we could , yeah . we c yeah , project manager : 'cause we 're marketing : we could even have it as like a yeah the buttons control this and the voice functions control the f things that you would do all the time , so . project manager : certainly could . yeah , yeah . marketing : so uh yeah , if we could uh power on and channel selection and and volume selection , would n't have to really project manager : the i mean the the advantage of doing away the buttons altogether is it makes the thing cheaper . marketing : yeah and probably it would look better as well . project manager : no , it cou certainly opens up the possibility for making it uh , you know , visually very distinctive . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : um 'cause you know , it does not have to be a oblong box . marketing : lined with numbered buttons and project manager : mm , yeah . okay , who sorry , have you have you finished there andy ? marketing : uh yeah , yeah , that 's everything . project manager : yep , yep . um given that we 've already had a extensive discussion uh . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : user interface : okay well , i can do mine . marketing : do you want the cable ? user interface : yeah , let 's see if i can make this work . um . industrial designer : oh , you have to hit like function and f_ something . marketing : f_ eight . industrial designer : f_ eight . user interface : is it doing industrial designer : dunno . marketing : uh , give it about twenty seconds , or so . user interface : okay . project manager : ah , there we go . industrial designer : oh yeah , it 's going . user interface : oh okay . okay , so this is just about the technical functions . project manager : alright . user interface : so the method , i looked online for examples of other similar products and then just kind of was trying to brainstorm some possible design ideas and um identify what the necessary things are , what people are what you really wan na have a remote control do . um and then there are two different kinds that i found . there 's a user centred one and an engineering centred one which i will have pictures of and then we kinda have to decide which one this should be . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so these are the two different ones . this one um this is the user centred , it has uh quite a few mm uh um fewer buttons marketing : user interface : and then this is the engineering centred , which has a lot more buttons , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and probably this is one that people complain about , about having too many buttons that you do n't use . so basically , what a remote control is is you it 's to send messages to the television set , you know , turn on , off , switch the channels and the volume and things such as that . and so for this product it 's gon na be television only , and then it has to have the uh logos for the company and the colours . and so , for my personal preferences , i think this one is easier to use and has quite a you know , fewer buttons . um we want something that sends messages easily to the television and i was kind of wondering about this example that they have . it looks kind of narrow at the top , and i was thinking maybe if it were wider at the top , project manager : mm , yeah . user interface : then that would be easier . um and so we have to decide what 's gon na make our product different . e the unique style , maybe have it light up so it 's visible in the dark , um the changeable face-plates , and the lighting up and visible i was when we were talking about havi losing it , maybe to have a button on the television that you press and it maybe if it makes a noise or lights up or something like that , so it 's easier to find if someone has hidden under the couch or something like that . so that 's my presentation . yeah . project manager : okay , can i um i 'm actually gon na use the um it 's gon na cause great technical problems over here . i 'm actually gon na use the user interface : f they probably clip to you . industrial designer : oh yeah , they might be movable . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : oh yeah , they 're all they 're not connected to anything on the table , you just leave 'em on and walk around with 'em . project manager : yes , rather than the uh the the traditional in fact , um i wo n't even go that far . um something like this shape , you know , sort of something that you can that 's sort of a more vertical shape , um that you you sort of hold in your hand , um , well i 'm trying to think uh uh uh l uh l such as i mean um something you hold up like that , possibly with a couple of buttons like that , but with the the entire top with the , you know , the uh the infrared or whatever source . uh so that you know , it 's flying off in all directions , so that uh um uh again the n need to look at the the the technicalities of um actually achieving that in terms of whether the , you know , the power requirements of the uh such a source , um you know , compromise the our our need for uh you know , it it being um mm permanently uh you know , available . industrial designer : project manager : uh whether whether different technology um i mean th all all these remotes are presumably infrared , and like they have been for a long time . uh we we possibly need to be looking at at at something different , um you know , short range , not like the old uh radio remote controls where you 'd change next door 's telly when you change yours . um industrial designer : user interface : project manager : but uh uh i think basically i if we 're going for i if minimum number of buttons is our priority , then we should , as i say , r know , really bite the bullets and and reduce the buttons to absolute minimum , you know , possibly with backup channel and volume buttons and on off . um and nothing else . um so that it can al it could uh almost end up like that , but again , except that um you know the risk of losing it . um anyway okay um so kate , wh what are your uh your thoughts on this ? industrial designer : yes , mm . which one does this plug into ? user interface : hmm i think it 's all there . industrial designer : that one . i ca n't did you could you see it on you screen when it user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : that 's not cool . user interface : that 's kind of strange . industrial designer : oh well . anyways . um alright , yeah , so um i 'll just do my presentation on the working design uh . oh there we go . okay um just at the m yeah the whole sort of method of how the remote control works . uh the basic function of the remote control is to send messages to another sh system , the the tv or the d_v_d_ player or whatever . marketing : industrial designer : um and it does this uh by well , you need to start off you need an energy source and this energy source will feed into an integrated circuit chip and the circuit chip is the part that actually composes the different messages uh within the remote um which will then be sent to the uh the television , the d_v_d_ to tell that what to do . um and you need a user interface , which controls the chip and thus the messages and uh the user interface is that 's basically just you kn the s sorta design of the actual remote which you hold in your hands and what buttons will be on it . um oh shoot . okay . uh just general findings . uh what we need uh technically speaking for the remote control is some sort of energy source , uh some sort of user interface , which i think we 've mostly been talking about the user interface and the design of that . um a circuit chip within that to uh control and send the messages and um a sender and receiver . and um oops . uh-huh . this is just sort of a little schematic diagram of what we 're looking for . uh this just kinda represents the energy source which feeds into the circuit chip uh which maybe then we could have that feed into a switch which would send signals f to um a subcomponent and on to a light bulb between so it 'll light up once we start once you start pressing buttons . um also send signals to the um infrared bulb , which will be the part that actually what ? sends signals to the the television . and then you 've got your happy little tv watcher there . user interface : industrial designer : and so my personal preferences i i just think we need sorta big uh energy source that wo n't die out , uh perhaps some sort of rechargeable battery or a battery dock you could place it in , so it 'd constantly be charged , so you would n't have to uh be worrying about it running out of batteries and not changing channels for you . uh a wide range uh sender-receiver , so that you can hit the buttons from basically anywhere in the room , and the channel 'll still be changed . uh also definitely a user-friendly interface um and i think we 've all sort of mentioned adding a a locating device on it , so when it does get stuck under the couch cushions , as they inevitably do , you can find them easily . and that 's pretty much it . project manager : okay . uh it seems seems to me there are a number of fundamental decisions to make before we um industrial designer : mm . project manager : i think your point about the the big energy source is uh a very valid one . um i do n't suppose we 've got any statistics on the the life expectancy of uh remote controls , particularly sort of independent ones . um given you know , the number of things you buy these days , which you know , have a a a lithium whatever battery in , that 's uh , you know never needs replacing . industrial designer : project manager : um perhaps we should have the the disposable remote control , uh um you know , one some sort of typical usage . you know , the the the battery will last know , five , ten years . by which time i mean when all 's said and done , the digital television will be taking over in that time scale . um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh uh p perhaps we should , know , reduce the uh , you know , the sort of moving parts even more by not even having a battery compartment and uh industrial designer : just having one that 's guaranteed to last five to ten years ? project manager : yeah , and if if anybody manages to run it down , we 'll we 'll give 'em a new one . industrial designer : oh , cool . yeah , fair enough . user interface : project manager : um it 's , you know , it 's what it saves in cost and you know there there 's a well , it 's actually a marketing gimmick . i mean it 's hardly a gimmick , it 's uh it 's totally practical . uh so i th think you know the idea of a rechargeable one is um uh unless you 're really high tech and it sort of just recharges itself if it 's n by , you know , magnetic waves or whatever , if if it marketing : it could have like uh know like a cordless phone in your house it s got like a base that sits there all the time . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm . project manager : are are people really gon na use it though ? um . user interface : yeah , people are pro marketing : i suppose , yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah user interface : i would think that people might forget project manager : i i th i think user interface : i mean people forget to put their cordless phones back on there , industrial designer : mm-mm . project manager : yeah , it 's marketing : yeah . project manager : um i mean i know that somei times my my wife goes out in the morning and says oh i should have put the phone on to charge and then then she 's had those for so long that if she has n't worked that out by now . um . industrial designer : 'cause i only remember to charge my cell phone uh when battery dies . and that 's pretty much user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : when it yeah , wh when it 's died is a problem . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , when it turns itself off , that 's when i plug it in , project manager : yeah , yeah , yeah , so uh um industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : what so wh what what do we think about the um the the permanent mm battery ? industrial designer : yeah , think that 's a good idea . marketing : uh . that sounds pretty good , yeah . project manager : is the uh you know , we we we are really going for the ultimate in ex uh external simplicity here . um you know , cut cost within the manufacturing and uh you know , if we have a high tech interior , then then that that sh may well be cost effective . user interface : do they make batteries that last that long ? project manager : i mean th th certainly . um i ca n't think of anything off the s top of my head , industrial designer : they usually have the little light uh source , project manager : but there are certainly things that you buy . i mean calculators for example . industrial designer : i dunno what the heck they 're called , user interface : yeah , they have that little solar industrial designer : the but project manager : som well some do , industrial designer : yeah , the little cells that project manager : i mean th th but there are battery ones industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that um are you know , sort of permanently sealed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : in in fact i 'd user interface : yeah . industrial designer : most of them , do n't they have sort of a combination of the two , like when there is light , they 'll work off the light , project manager : yeah , industrial designer : and if there is n't , they 'll kick into this battery , project manager : uh uh industrial designer : so we can maybe do something like that whereas there is a battery , but if there 's enough light , then it 's using the light , so that it 's not actually draining the battery all the time , but you will have the battery there for when you need it . project manager : yeah , i i mean th th this needs going t into the technology a bit . i mean the the actual time that a remote control is actually operating i would think is i is is probably , you know , no more than minutes in its entire life . um . industrial designer : oh , it depend if it 's uh depends who who 's using it , who 's just sitting there clicking clicking clicking clicking , user interface : yeah , some people are project manager : if , but i say if if people are getting r_s_i_ from it then uh then uh then then perhaps we 're looking at the wrong market industrial designer : yeah . yeah , then they 're clicking a lot , yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : w like like this um this uh market research thing says number of times per hour that it 's used , channel selection a hundred and sixty eight user interface : per hour ? project manager : right . marketing : times per hour . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : wow . that 's a lot . project manager : oh , i must admit i had n't um i 'd i 'd missed that . that does sound excessive . marketing : but then again , if you think it of the amount of , you know amount of use it 's like project manager : yeah . marketing : that 's it 's less than a second , um . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : well that 's right , and and i i do n't i do n't even know whether the i do n't even know whether the s the signal lasts as long as you actually keep the button pressed , or whether it 's just a marketing : yeah . project manager : sorta tenth of a second , no matter how long you press it for , i do n't know i do n't actually know . um . user interface : though i think with digital tv , like i know on my cable box , you 're not supposed to do that because the channel ca n't keep up with it if you just press it like that , project manager : yeah . user interface : so you 're supposed to use the menu and go through the different project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : channels that way instead of project manager : mm . industrial designer : project manager : right , so i 've got a message to say five minutes , i dunno how long ago that appeared . um 'cause we 're we 're getting user interface : uh-oh . project manager : um right , so i 'd i need to sum up very quickly here um . we 're looking at extreme simplicity . we 're looking at a radically different shape . possibly no buttons at all um , but if you can incorporate um channel change and volume buttons um in into the design , then then that 's fine . um in the i mean the the role of the of the um the user interface des designer becomes b you know more important here , because , you know , shape is no longer an a uh um a serious constraint . but we clearly only need th the main buttons , although , uh if clearly only need the main functions . um i do n't see why we should n't go for voice recognition um and the the only buttons that i think we need are channel control , volume control and on off . um it needs to incorporate the corporate logo , uh the the grey and yellow colour scheme and there 's no reason why we ca n't introduce um interchangeable uh covers . um uh d so does that accurately summarise what we 've discussed ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yep . hmm . project manager : right . user interface : um project manager : so uh yeah . we are doing just the television . user interface : oh i just have one question . so are we doing just the television or are we doing so not d_v_d_ players , we okay , okay . project manager : i think that 's quite clear from the the information that we 've been given , user interface : okay . marketing : yeah , like in the email of television only . in fact they 're in the constraints email that i got . project manager : right . marketing : did n't you mention the teletext , just television only ? project manager : oh yeah well th that 's one i s that 's one i sent you , user interface : yeah . project manager : which which was my interpretation of uh of the uh what came down from from head office . um marketing : oh okay . oh yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : oh okay . industrial designer : okay . project manager : that 's that that that that 's their uh their view . industrial designer : project manager : okay , so uh we can all give some thought to that uh for for the next meeting , thank you very much indeed . user interface : okay . industrial designer : cool . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the reduction of buttons and application of speech recognition . </s> marketing : uh i do n't mind . project manager : p fine . marketing : uh can i steal the cable ? project manager : oh sorry , you can indeed . marketing : cheers . project manager : marketing : i got a how do i start there ? project manager : oh , if you click on the um uh the one that that looks like a projection screen , no the one to the right of that . that one . marketing : that one . cool . well these are functionality requirements from the our our guys down in the the research lab . took hundred people and covered all the aspects of what um is needed by people and what they want to see . um everything kinda from functionality and how individual functions are how mu how how often they 're used and how much their necessary and stuff . and general opinions about current current remotes . see that , as we kinda noticed , seventy five percent of people find their remote controls ugly . so some kind of a new style should be incorporated that 's less ugly . uh along with um looking less ugly , if it looks better , eighty percent of people said they 'd spend more money on it . which is a a plus for us , if we can make it look better , it 'd be uh more cost effective and we can put the price up . current remote controls do not match the operating behaviour of the user . i can empl i kinda take that to mean as um they they do n't uh they , yeah , they only use they only work for the television or yeah like as in in my flat i 've got six remote controls for a stereo system , a digital box , a d_v_d_ player , a video player and tv . if it was uh i mean th my behaviour is to use multiple things at the same time and multiple remotes are n't really matched well to my behaviour . uh again , seventy five percent is seventy five percent of users say they zap a lot . i took to mean that they just they use it a lot , they use it regularly rather than standing up and manually change channels or volume . and uh yeah , uh i think the big issue is fifty percent users only use ten percent of the buttons , 'cause uh wh if we got a remote that like well we 'll have some buttons taken off by the lack of teletext , but uh oh and we 're going to see uh on the uh that some of the functions like audio settings are n't h hardly ever used and used very are n't considered relevant by the user . so i think maybe fewer buttons , which also make the design look sleeker , i dunno . uh um yeah and uh frustrations of like people losing remote control . i dunno maybe some kind of system of you press a button on the tv or maybe that 's b it would have to incorporate , but like some kind of system where you can f use something else to find the remote control . maybe like it 'll beep or something . and um , yep , the uh time taken to learn new remote controls is uh do n't want to make it too complicated , easy to use for uh new like first time users and stuff . and uh repetitive strain injury , i suppose we should make it more comfortable and make ma possibly even use have to make it , yeah , fewer buttons , like i was saying about the whole mice the mouse idea of it feels more comfortable . maybe do n't even have to hold it as such . project manager : gosh , must be some telly addicts out there if they get r_s_i_ from their television remote , is all i can say . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : marketing : but uh yeah . it also asked um if we would if people would pay more for speech recognition project manager : marketing : and younger people say they would . and uh there was another section on our on the report for uh lcd displays , but the data was n't there , so . i do n't actually know what the results for that were , project manager : mm . right . mm . marketing : so . may be incrementally emitting , but yeah . project manager : yeah , i must say that um the uh i c ca n't remember what um f you know phone service i was using the other day , but that had sorta speech recognition which worked uh remarkably well , so that is indeed a uh um a thought marketing : and uh it would cut out the r_s_i_ as well if you project manager : and it it cuts out uh i was was gon na say , you ca n't get a lot of r_s_i_ , industrial designer : project manager : j just get jaw ache . okay , sorry . marketing : yeah , um oh yeah , so possibly the speech recognition is possibly something could add into the design . oh , i 've got some other things i could n't fit onto this presentation . um . you see this okay ? almost no ? it 's sorry it 's a bit . i 'll read out to you . uh functionality , uh like people 's opinions on functionality , the relevance to the remote and how often they 're used . so um like the power . using the using the d swi the power switch to switch on tv is a high relevance of nine , but it 's not frequently used . you see what i mean ? project manager : yeah . marketing : whereas channel selection , which is very high relevance project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : is used the most . so m we can maybe even start to cut down on or i was possibly even thinking of a design that maybe some of the buttons are hidden from everyday use . maybe like uh a folding ledge or something . so that we can maybe go into the channel settings and the audio settings , which are low relevance project manager : mm-hmm . i mean marketing : and rarely used . and keep the v volume selection and channel selection very easily user interface : it could be oh uh i was just gon na say uh maybe like the flip phones that they use ? have you seen the new mo mobile phones project manager : yeah . user interface : that flip out and they have the like texting , and then the numbers on one side , marketing : oh yeah . user interface : you could have the most used buttons on top and flip it out or something . project manager : hmm , hmm . marketing : yeah , like the one that like slides back project manager : uh . should we actually bite the bullet here ? marketing : and the buttons are concealed underneath . user interface : yeah . project manager : if people really do n't use those buttons to any extent at all um remove them altogether . marketing : just remove them completely ? project manager : we we could actually have we could actually have a remote control with um user interface : that might be the project manager : i wonder whether we could get the remote control with no buttons at all if we went for voice recognition , given that um the um now the the age structure we were looking at um i mean w we had usage by age structure , what we did n't have was what proportion of people using remotes were in those particular age groups . now do we know whether they marketing : uh yeah . project manager : forty no sorry for forty five to fifty five age group , uh to put myself right in the middle of it , um u use remote controls to a great extent . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : yes we marketing : um no this is for pay more for speech recognition . project manager : that would 've speech recogn right . so , we 're looking at um well again , we do n't know the relative proportion the relative numbers in the age groups . marketing : yeah , that 's true . project manager : if we wanted something different , truly different , then the buttonless remote control w would be it . industrial designer : p well the only problem i can think of with that is if you 've got a lot of people that do n't wan na be bothered learning how to use new rem remote controls . if you just kind of take away everything that they 're used to knowing , that 's gon na be quite a change . project manager : but if you just lift it up and say , channel one or b_b_c_ industrial designer : it might marketing : or even i mean you could even just have it left on . user interface : maybe i marketing : you could just put it down once on top your tv and never have to user interface : yeah , have a big kind of like the satellite box or the cable box project manager : user interface : and have it just go on the tv and then it does n't matter where in the room you are , you wo n't lose it . marketing : yeah . project manager : it c well it i can i can see technical problems with that in terms of the , you know , the sound from the television , because if somebody actually on the television says uh uh , you know , i_tv and you 're watching b_b_c_ then then it might um change itself , marketing : b_b_c_ one . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : oh . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : project manager : so it probably needs to be um possibly actually need a button on it user interface : yeah , that 's true . project manager : just to activate it . marketing : oh yeah . project manager : or or something just to identify that you 've lifted it up and it 's use . and and then just say , oh i do n't know , a thought and and then user interface : yeah . project manager : uh i mean that that would certainly be uh truly different . um 'cause uh you know audio settings , nought point eight percent . i mean if they were n't there , would people miss them ? marketing : mm-mm . industrial designer : but look at the importance of them . the volume settings . project manager : marketing : relevance of two out of ten , project manager : vol volume , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yes um industrial designer : they 're not used often project manager : th industrial designer : but they are quite important when they 're used . project manager : w we need to s identify things that people actually need industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and and it 's a function of frequency and relevance . and um i would say ignoring ig ignoring power for the moment , um the channel and volume and th w w given given that we 've been told to ignore teletext . uh channel and volume are the only ones that marketing : yeah . project manager : uh would appear to be essential . marketing : stand out . project manager : um . so if we can design something that that looks interesting , know , or looks different , um incorporates the the logo and and the colours and um we can still have our interchangeable fascias even if it 's the yellow and grey , um and uh i dunno , buttons or or buttons as an option . marketing : uh i just had a thought actually , sorry to interrupt . project manager : do , please . marketing : uh you were saying about um it could technical problems of like uh someone on the television saying a channel number and it changed project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : we could maybe have like an activation word . project manager : you cer certainly could . marketing : 'cause i 've seen i 've seen this used on computers before , where you just you address the remote , project manager : depe uh i depends whether um marketing : you address the computer , and then give it a command . project manager : if we want to make this so simple that anybody can walk into the room and lift it up and say marketing : oh i see . oh yeah , i see . project manager : b_b_c_ one . um okay , i mean you could print actually print it on the uh marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . project manager : device itself . um . marketing : i mean i 'm just thinking of the point of view of peop you could still like lose this remote . project manager : s th this i th that 's always gon na be a problem i think . industrial designer : project manager : um and i i i s so i suppose one um could make it so desirable that if people lose it they immediately go out and buy another one . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : anyway , sorry , carry on . do you want to just carry on with or marketing : i i interrupted you , project manager : no no , no uh b i was in the middle of in the middle of your report there . marketing : sorry . oh okay . um well , i was just kinda wrapping up there . yeah , project manager : mm okay . marketing : i was thinking um , yeah , maybe such things are relevant . we could make things much more f i think the the eighty percent of people would spend more on uh a remote uh that looks better , combined with uh decrease the or take out the limited functio functions that we do n't really use much . alright take out teletext , but as for channel settings and stuff it might it might um turn people somewhe peop some people that want the whole functionality away . but , since if we 're marketing a more kind of fashionable approach then it 'd it would be fashion and fashion over practicality . project manager : mm-hmm . s s we could we could make it dual function voice recognition and still have buttons on it um marketing : oh , we could , yeah . we c yeah , project manager : 'cause we 're marketing : we could even have it as like a yeah the buttons control this and the voice functions control the f things that you would do all the time , so . project manager : certainly could . yeah , yeah . marketing : so uh yeah , if we could uh power on and channel selection and and volume selection , would n't have to really project manager : the i mean the the advantage of doing away the buttons altogether is it makes the thing cheaper . marketing : yeah and probably it would look better as well . project manager : no , it cou certainly opens up the possibility for making it uh , you know , visually very distinctive . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : um 'cause you know , it does not have to be a oblong box . marketing : lined with numbered buttons and project manager : mm , yeah . okay , who sorry , have you have you finished there andy ? marketing : uh yeah , yeah , that 's everything . project manager : yep , yep . um given that we 've already had a extensive discussion uh . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : user interface : okay well , i can do mine . marketing : do you want the cable ? user interface : yeah , let 's see if i can make this work . um . industrial designer : oh , you have to hit like function and f_ something . marketing : f_ eight . industrial designer : f_ eight . user interface : is it doing industrial designer : dunno . marketing : uh , give it about twenty seconds , or so . user interface : okay . project manager : ah , there we go . industrial designer : oh yeah , it 's going . user interface : oh okay . okay , so this is just about the technical functions . project manager : alright . user interface : so the method , i looked online for examples of other similar products and then just kind of was trying to brainstorm some possible design ideas and um identify what the necessary things are , what people are what you really wan na have a remote control do . um and then there are two different kinds that i found . there 's a user centred one and an engineering centred one which i will have pictures of and then we kinda have to decide which one this should be . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so these are the two different ones . this one um this is the user centred , it has uh quite a few mm uh um fewer buttons marketing : user interface : and then this is the engineering centred , which has a lot more buttons , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and probably this is one that people complain about , about having too many buttons that you do n't use . so basically , what a remote control is is you it 's to send messages to the television set , you know , turn on , off , switch the channels and the volume and things such as that . and so for this product it 's gon na be television only , and then it has to have the uh logos for the company and the colours . and so , for my personal preferences , i think this one is easier to use and has quite a you know , fewer buttons . um we want something that sends messages easily to the television and i was kind of wondering about this example that they have . it looks kind of narrow at the top , and i was thinking maybe if it were wider at the top , project manager : mm , yeah . </s>
<s> what did marketing and project manager come up with when it came to reducing buttons ? </s> marketing : but uh yeah . it also asked um if we would if people would pay more for speech recognition project manager : marketing : and younger people say they would . and uh there was another section on our on the report for uh lcd displays , but the data was n't there , so . i do n't actually know what the results for that were , project manager : mm . right . mm . marketing : so . may be incrementally emitting , but yeah . project manager : yeah , i must say that um the uh i c ca n't remember what um f you know phone service i was using the other day , but that had sorta speech recognition which worked uh remarkably well , so that is indeed a uh um a thought marketing : and uh it would cut out the r_s_i_ as well if you project manager : and it it cuts out uh i was was gon na say , you ca n't get a lot of r_s_i_ , industrial designer : project manager : j just get jaw ache . okay , sorry . marketing : yeah , um oh yeah , so possibly the speech recognition is possibly something could add into the design . oh , i 've got some other things i could n't fit onto this presentation . um . you see this okay ? almost no ? it 's sorry it 's a bit . i 'll read out to you . uh functionality , uh like people 's opinions on functionality , the relevance to the remote and how often they 're used . so um like the power . using the using the d swi the power switch to switch on tv is a high relevance of nine , but it 's not frequently used . you see what i mean ? project manager : yeah . marketing : whereas channel selection , which is very high relevance project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : is used the most . so m we can maybe even start to cut down on or i was possibly even thinking of a design that maybe some of the buttons are hidden from everyday use . maybe like uh a folding ledge or something . so that we can maybe go into the channel settings and the audio settings , which are low relevance project manager : mm-hmm . i mean marketing : and rarely used . and keep the v volume selection and channel selection very easily user interface : it could be oh uh i was just gon na say uh maybe like the flip phones that they use ? have you seen the new mo mobile phones project manager : yeah . user interface : that flip out and they have the like texting , and then the numbers on one side , marketing : oh yeah . user interface : you could have the most used buttons on top and flip it out or something . project manager : hmm , hmm . marketing : yeah , like the one that like slides back project manager : uh . should we actually bite the bullet here ? marketing : and the buttons are concealed underneath . user interface : yeah . project manager : if people really do n't use those buttons to any extent at all um remove them altogether . marketing : just remove them completely ? project manager : we we could actually have we could actually have a remote control with um user interface : that might be the project manager : i wonder whether we could get the remote control with no buttons at all if we went for voice recognition , given that um the um now the the age structure we were looking at um i mean w we had usage by age structure , what we did n't have was what proportion of people using remotes were in those particular age groups . now do we know whether they marketing : uh yeah . project manager : forty no sorry for forty five to fifty five age group , uh to put myself right in the middle of it , um u use remote controls to a great extent . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : yes we marketing : um no this is for pay more for speech recognition . project manager : that would 've speech recogn right . so , we 're looking at um well again , we do n't know the relative proportion the relative numbers in the age groups . marketing : yeah , that 's true . project manager : if we wanted something different , truly different , then the buttonless remote control w would be it . industrial designer : p well the only problem i can think of with that is if you 've got a lot of people that do n't wan na be bothered learning how to use new rem remote controls . if you just kind of take away everything that they 're used to knowing , that 's gon na be quite a change . project manager : but if you just lift it up and say , channel one or b_b_c_ industrial designer : it might marketing : or even i mean you could even just have it left on . user interface : maybe i marketing : you could just put it down once on top your tv and never have to user interface : yeah , have a big kind of like the satellite box or the cable box project manager : user interface : and have it just go on the tv and then it does n't matter where in the room you are , you wo n't lose it . marketing : yeah . project manager : it c well it i can i can see technical problems with that in terms of the , you know , the sound from the television , because if somebody actually on the television says uh uh , you know , i_tv and you 're watching b_b_c_ then then it might um change itself , marketing : b_b_c_ one . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : oh . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : project manager : so it probably needs to be um possibly actually need a button on it user interface : yeah , that 's true . project manager : just to activate it . marketing : oh yeah . project manager : or or something just to identify that you 've lifted it up and it 's use . and and then just say , oh i do n't know , a thought and and then user interface : yeah . project manager : uh i mean that that would certainly be uh truly different . um 'cause uh you know audio settings , nought point eight percent . i mean if they were n't there , would people miss them ? marketing : mm-mm . industrial designer : but look at the importance of them . the volume settings . project manager : marketing : relevance of two out of ten , project manager : vol volume , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yes um industrial designer : they 're not used often project manager : th industrial designer : but they are quite important when they 're used . project manager : w we need to s identify things that people actually need industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and and it 's a function of frequency and relevance . and um i would say ignoring ig ignoring power for the moment , um the channel and volume and th w w given given that we 've been told to ignore teletext . uh channel and volume are the only ones that marketing : yeah . project manager : uh would appear to be essential . marketing : stand out . project manager : um . so if we can design something that that looks interesting , know , or looks different , um incorporates the the logo and and the colours and um we can still have our interchangeable fascias even if it 's the yellow and grey , um and uh i dunno , buttons or or buttons as an option . marketing : uh i just had a thought actually , sorry to interrupt . project manager : do , please . marketing : uh you were saying about um it could technical problems of like uh someone on the television saying a channel number and it changed project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : we could maybe have like an activation word . project manager : you cer certainly could . marketing : 'cause i 've seen i 've seen this used on computers before , where you just you address the remote , project manager : depe uh i depends whether um marketing : you address the computer , and then give it a command . project manager : if we want to make this so simple that anybody can walk into the room and lift it up and say marketing : oh i see . oh yeah , i see . project manager : b_b_c_ one . um okay , i mean you could print actually print it on the uh marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . project manager : device itself . um . marketing : i mean i 'm just thinking of the point of view of peop you could still like lose this remote . project manager : s th this i th that 's always gon na be a problem i think . industrial designer : project manager : um and i i i s so i suppose one um could make it so desirable that if people lose it they immediately go out and buy another one . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : anyway , sorry , carry on . do you want to just carry on with or marketing : i i interrupted you , project manager : no no , no uh b i was in the middle of in the middle of your report there . marketing : sorry . oh okay . um well , i was just kinda wrapping up there . yeah , project manager : mm okay . marketing : i was thinking um , yeah , maybe such things are relevant . we could make things much more f i think the the eighty percent of people would spend more on uh a remote uh that looks better , combined with uh decrease the or take out the limited functio functions that we do n't really use much . alright take out teletext , but as for channel settings and stuff it might it might um turn people somewhe peop some people that want the whole functionality away . but , since if we 're marketing a more kind of fashionable approach then it 'd it would be fashion and fashion over practicality . </s>
<s> why did n't the team believe that the remote control could fully depend on speech recognition and have no buttons ? </s> project manager : if people really do n't use those buttons to any extent at all um remove them altogether . marketing : just remove them completely ? project manager : we we could actually have we could actually have a remote control with um user interface : that might be the project manager : i wonder whether we could get the remote control with no buttons at all if we went for voice recognition , given that um the um now the the age structure we were looking at um i mean w we had usage by age structure , what we did n't have was what proportion of people using remotes were in those particular age groups . now do we know whether they marketing : uh yeah . project manager : forty no sorry for forty five to fifty five age group , uh to put myself right in the middle of it , um u use remote controls to a great extent . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : yes we marketing : um no this is for pay more for speech recognition . project manager : that would 've speech recogn right . so , we 're looking at um well again , we do n't know the relative proportion the relative numbers in the age groups . marketing : yeah , that 's true . project manager : if we wanted something different , truly different , then the buttonless remote control w would be it . industrial designer : p well the only problem i can think of with that is if you 've got a lot of people that do n't wan na be bothered learning how to use new rem remote controls . if you just kind of take away everything that they 're used to knowing , that 's gon na be quite a change . project manager : but if you just lift it up and say , channel one or b_b_c_ industrial designer : it might marketing : or even i mean you could even just have it left on . user interface : maybe i marketing : you could just put it down once on top your tv and never have to user interface : yeah , have a big kind of like the satellite box or the cable box project manager : user interface : and have it just go on the tv and then it does n't matter where in the room you are , you wo n't lose it . marketing : yeah . project manager : it c well it i can i can see technical problems with that in terms of the , you know , the sound from the television , because if somebody actually on the television says uh uh , you know , i_tv and you 're watching b_b_c_ then then it might um change itself , marketing : b_b_c_ one . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : oh . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : project manager : so it probably needs to be um possibly actually need a button on it user interface : yeah , that 's true . project manager : just to activate it . marketing : oh yeah . project manager : or or something just to identify that you 've lifted it up and it 's use . and and then just say , oh i do n't know , a thought and and then user interface : yeah . project manager : uh i mean that that would certainly be uh truly different . um 'cause uh you know audio settings , nought point eight percent . i mean if they were n't there , would people miss them ? marketing : mm-mm . industrial designer : but look at the importance of them . the volume settings . project manager : marketing : relevance of two out of ten , project manager : vol volume , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yes um industrial designer : they 're not used often project manager : th industrial designer : but they are quite important when they 're used . project manager : w we need to s identify things that people actually need industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and and it 's a function of frequency and relevance . and um i would say ignoring ig ignoring power for the moment , um the channel and volume and th w w given given that we 've been told to ignore teletext . uh channel and volume are the only ones that marketing : yeah . project manager : uh would appear to be essential . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about energy sources ? </s> project manager : okay , can i um i 'm actually gon na use the um it 's gon na cause great technical problems over here . i 'm actually gon na use the user interface : f they probably clip to you . industrial designer : oh yeah , they might be movable . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : oh yeah , they 're all they 're not connected to anything on the table , you just leave 'em on and walk around with 'em . project manager : yes , rather than the uh the the traditional in fact , um i wo n't even go that far . um something like this shape , you know , sort of something that you can that 's sort of a more vertical shape , um that you you sort of hold in your hand , um , well i 'm trying to think uh uh uh l uh l such as i mean um something you hold up like that , possibly with a couple of buttons like that , but with the the entire top with the , you know , the uh the infrared or whatever source . uh so that you know , it 's flying off in all directions , so that uh um uh again the n need to look at the the the technicalities of um actually achieving that in terms of whether the , you know , the power requirements of the uh such a source , um you know , compromise the our our need for uh you know , it it being um mm permanently uh you know , available . industrial designer : project manager : uh whether whether different technology um i mean th all all these remotes are presumably infrared , and like they have been for a long time . uh we we possibly need to be looking at at at something different , um you know , short range , not like the old uh radio remote controls where you 'd change next door 's telly when you change yours . um industrial designer : user interface : project manager : but uh uh i think basically i if we 're going for i if minimum number of buttons is our priority , then we should , as i say , r know , really bite the bullets and and reduce the buttons to absolute minimum , you know , possibly with backup channel and volume buttons and on off . um and nothing else . um so that it can al it could uh almost end up like that , but again , except that um you know the risk of losing it . um anyway okay um so kate , wh what are your uh your thoughts on this ? industrial designer : yes , mm . which one does this plug into ? user interface : hmm i think it 's all there . industrial designer : that one . i ca n't did you could you see it on you screen when it user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : that 's not cool . user interface : that 's kind of strange . industrial designer : oh well . anyways . um alright , yeah , so um i 'll just do my presentation on the working design uh . oh there we go . okay um just at the m yeah the whole sort of method of how the remote control works . uh the basic function of the remote control is to send messages to another sh system , the the tv or the d_v_d_ player or whatever . marketing : industrial designer : um and it does this uh by well , you need to start off you need an energy source and this energy source will feed into an integrated circuit chip and the circuit chip is the part that actually composes the different messages uh within the remote um which will then be sent to the uh the television , the d_v_d_ to tell that what to do . um and you need a user interface , which controls the chip and thus the messages and uh the user interface is that 's basically just you kn the s sorta design of the actual remote which you hold in your hands and what buttons will be on it . um oh shoot . okay . uh just general findings . uh what we need uh technically speaking for the remote control is some sort of energy source , uh some sort of user interface , which i think we 've mostly been talking about the user interface and the design of that . um a circuit chip within that to uh control and send the messages and um a sender and receiver . and um oops . uh-huh . this is just sort of a little schematic diagram of what we 're looking for . uh this just kinda represents the energy source which feeds into the circuit chip uh which maybe then we could have that feed into a switch which would send signals f to um a subcomponent and on to a light bulb between so it 'll light up once we start once you start pressing buttons . um also send signals to the um infrared bulb , which will be the part that actually what ? sends signals to the the television . and then you 've got your happy little tv watcher there . user interface : industrial designer : and so my personal preferences i i just think we need sorta big uh energy source that wo n't die out , uh perhaps some sort of rechargeable battery or a battery dock you could place it in , so it 'd constantly be charged , so you would n't have to uh be worrying about it running out of batteries and not changing channels for you . uh a wide range uh sender-receiver , so that you can hit the buttons from basically anywhere in the room , and the channel 'll still be changed . uh also definitely a user-friendly interface um and i think we 've all sort of mentioned adding a a locating device on it , so when it does get stuck under the couch cushions , as they inevitably do , you can find them easily . and that 's pretty much it . project manager : okay . uh it seems seems to me there are a number of fundamental decisions to make before we um industrial designer : mm . project manager : i think your point about the the big energy source is uh a very valid one . um i do n't suppose we 've got any statistics on the the life expectancy of uh remote controls , particularly sort of independent ones . um given you know , the number of things you buy these days , which you know , have a a a lithium whatever battery in , that 's uh , you know never needs replacing . industrial designer : project manager : um perhaps we should have the the disposable remote control , uh um you know , one some sort of typical usage . you know , the the the battery will last know , five , ten years . by which time i mean when all 's said and done , the digital television will be taking over in that time scale . um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh uh p perhaps we should , know , reduce the uh , you know , the sort of moving parts even more by not even having a battery compartment and uh industrial designer : just having one that 's guaranteed to last five to ten years ? project manager : yeah , and if if anybody manages to run it down , we 'll we 'll give 'em a new one . industrial designer : oh , cool . yeah , fair enough . user interface : project manager : um it 's , you know , it 's what it saves in cost and you know there there 's a well , it 's actually a marketing gimmick . i mean it 's hardly a gimmick , it 's uh it 's totally practical . uh so i th think you know the idea of a rechargeable one is um uh unless you 're really high tech and it sort of just recharges itself if it 's n by , you know , magnetic waves or whatever , if if it marketing : it could have like uh know like a cordless phone in your house it s got like a base that sits there all the time . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm . project manager : are are people really gon na use it though ? um . user interface : yeah , people are pro marketing : i suppose , yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah user interface : i would think that people might forget project manager : i i th i think user interface : i mean people forget to put their cordless phones back on there , industrial designer : mm-mm . project manager : yeah , it 's marketing : yeah . project manager : um i mean i know that somei times my my wife goes out in the morning and says oh i should have put the phone on to charge and then then she 's had those for so long that if she has n't worked that out by now . um . industrial designer : 'cause i only remember to charge my cell phone uh when battery dies . and that 's pretty much user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : when it yeah , wh when it 's died is a problem . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , when it turns itself off , that 's when i plug it in , project manager : yeah , yeah , yeah , so uh um industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : what so wh what what do we think about the um the the permanent mm battery ? industrial designer : yeah , think that 's a good idea . marketing : uh . that sounds pretty good , yeah . project manager : is the uh you know , we we we are really going for the ultimate in ex uh external simplicity here . um you know , cut cost within the manufacturing and uh you know , if we have a high tech interior , then then that that sh may well be cost effective . user interface : do they make batteries that last that long ? project manager : i mean th th certainly . um i ca n't think of anything off the s top of my head , industrial designer : they usually have the little light uh source , project manager : but there are certainly things that you buy . i mean calculators for example . industrial designer : i dunno what the heck they 're called , user interface : yeah , they have that little solar industrial designer : the but project manager : som well some do , industrial designer : yeah , the little cells that project manager : i mean th th but there are battery ones industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that um are you know , sort of permanently sealed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : in in fact i 'd user interface : yeah . industrial designer : most of them , do n't they have sort of a combination of the two , like when there is light , they 'll work off the light , project manager : yeah , industrial designer : and if there is n't , they 'll kick into this battery , project manager : uh uh industrial designer : so we can maybe do something like that whereas there is a battery , but if there 's enough light , then it 's using the light , so that it 's not actually draining the battery all the time , but you will have the battery there for when you need it . project manager : yeah , i i mean th th this needs going t into the technology a bit . i mean the the actual time that a remote control is actually operating i would think is i is is probably , you know , no more than minutes in its entire life . um . industrial designer : oh , it depend if it 's uh depends who who 's using it , who 's just sitting there clicking clicking clicking clicking , user interface : yeah , some people are project manager : if , but i say if if people are getting r_s_i_ from it then uh then uh then then perhaps we 're looking at the wrong market industrial designer : yeah . yeah , then they 're clicking a lot , yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : w like like this um this uh market research thing says number of times per hour that it 's used , channel selection a hundred and sixty eight user interface : per hour ? project manager : right . marketing : times per hour . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : wow . that 's a lot . project manager : oh , i must admit i had n't um i 'd i 'd missed that . that does sound excessive . marketing : but then again , if you think it of the amount of , you know amount of use it 's like project manager : yeah . marketing : that 's it 's less than a second , um . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : well that 's right , and and i i do n't i do n't even know whether the i do n't even know whether the s the signal lasts as long as you actually keep the button pressed , or whether it 's just a marketing : yeah . project manager : sorta tenth of a second , no matter how long you press it for , i do n't know i do n't actually know . um . user interface : though i think with digital tv , like i know on my cable box , you 're not supposed to do that because the channel ca n't keep up with it if you just press it like that , project manager : yeah . user interface : so you 're supposed to use the menu and go through the different project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : channels that way instead of project manager : mm . industrial designer : project manager : right , so i 've got a message to say five minutes , i dunno how long ago that appeared . um 'cause we 're we 're getting </s>
<s> what did project manager think about energy source ? </s> project manager : i think your point about the the big energy source is uh a very valid one . um i do n't suppose we 've got any statistics on the the life expectancy of uh remote controls , particularly sort of independent ones . um given you know , the number of things you buy these days , which you know , have a a a lithium whatever battery in , that 's uh , you know never needs replacing . industrial designer : project manager : um perhaps we should have the the disposable remote control , uh um you know , one some sort of typical usage . you know , the the the battery will last know , five , ten years . by which time i mean when all 's said and done , the digital television will be taking over in that time scale . um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh uh p perhaps we should , know , reduce the uh , you know , the sort of moving parts even more by not even having a battery compartment and uh industrial designer : just having one that 's guaranteed to last five to ten years ? project manager : yeah , and if if anybody manages to run it down , we 'll we 'll give 'em a new one . industrial designer : oh , cool . yeah , fair enough . user interface : project manager : um it 's , you know , it 's what it saves in cost and you know there there 's a well , it 's actually a marketing gimmick . i mean it 's hardly a gimmick , it 's uh it 's totally practical . uh so i th think you know the idea of a rechargeable one is um uh unless you 're really high tech and it sort of just recharges itself if it 's n by , you know , magnetic waves or whatever , if if it marketing : it could have like uh know like a cordless phone in your house it s got like a base that sits there all the time . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm . project manager : are are people really gon na use it though ? um . user interface : yeah , people are pro marketing : i suppose , yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah user interface : i would think that people might forget project manager : i i th i think user interface : i mean people forget to put their cordless phones back on there , industrial designer : mm-mm . project manager : yeah , it 's marketing : yeah . project manager : um i mean i know that somei times my my wife goes out in the morning and says oh i should have put the phone on to charge and then then she 's had those for so long that if she has n't worked that out by now . um . industrial designer : 'cause i only remember to charge my cell phone uh when battery dies . and that 's pretty much user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : when it yeah , wh when it 's died is a problem . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , when it turns itself off , that 's when i plug it in , project manager : yeah , yeah , yeah , so uh um industrial designer : yeah . user interface : </s>
<s> what did industrial designer propose when discussing energy sources ? </s> industrial designer : and so my personal preferences i i just think we need sorta big uh energy source that wo n't die out , uh perhaps some sort of rechargeable battery or a battery dock you could place it in , so it 'd constantly be charged , so you would n't have to uh be worrying about it running out of batteries and not changing channels for you . uh a wide range uh sender-receiver , so that you can hit the buttons from basically anywhere in the room , and the channel 'll still be changed . uh also definitely a user-friendly interface um and i think we 've all sort of mentioned adding a a locating device on it , so when it does get stuck under the couch cushions , as they inevitably do , you can find them easily . and that 's pretty much it . project manager : okay . uh it seems seems to me there are a number of fundamental decisions to make before we um industrial designer : mm . project manager : i think your point about the the big energy source is uh a very valid one . um i do n't suppose we 've got any statistics on the the life expectancy of uh remote controls , particularly sort of independent ones . um given you know , the number of things you buy these days , which you know , have a a a lithium whatever battery in , that 's uh , you know never needs replacing . industrial designer : project manager : um perhaps we should have the the disposable remote control , uh um you know , one some sort of typical usage . you know , the the the battery will last know , five , ten years . by which time i mean when all 's said and done , the digital television will be taking over in that time scale . um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh uh p perhaps we should , know , reduce the uh , you know , the sort of moving parts even more by not even having a battery compartment and uh industrial designer : just having one that 's guaranteed to last five to ten years ? project manager : yeah , and if if anybody manages to run it down , we 'll we 'll give 'em a new one . industrial designer : oh , cool . yeah , fair enough . user interface : project manager : um it 's , you know , it 's what it saves in cost and you know there there 's a well , it 's actually a marketing gimmick . i mean it 's hardly a gimmick , it 's uh it 's totally practical . uh so i th think you know the idea of a rechargeable one is um uh unless you 're really high tech and it sort of just recharges itself if it 's n by , you know , magnetic waves or whatever , if if it marketing : it could have like uh know like a cordless phone in your house it s got like a base that sits there all the time . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm . project manager : are are people really gon na use it though ? um . user interface : yeah , people are pro marketing : i suppose , yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah user interface : i would think that people might forget project manager : i i th i think user interface : i mean people forget to put their cordless phones back on there , industrial designer : mm-mm . project manager : yeah , it 's marketing : yeah . project manager : um i mean i know that somei times my my wife goes out in the morning and says oh i should have put the phone on to charge and then then she 's had those for so long that if she has n't worked that out by now . um . industrial designer : 'cause i only remember to charge my cell phone uh when battery dies . and that 's pretty much user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : when it yeah , wh when it 's died is a problem . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , when it turns itself off , that 's when i plug it in , project manager : yeah , yeah , yeah , so uh um industrial designer : yeah . user interface : project manager : what so wh what what do we think about the um the the permanent mm battery ? industrial designer : yeah , think that 's a good idea . marketing : uh . that sounds pretty good , yeah . project manager : is the uh you know , we we we are really going for the ultimate in ex uh external simplicity here . um you know , cut cost within the manufacturing and uh you know , if we have a high tech interior , then then that that sh may well be cost effective . user interface : do they make batteries that last that long ? project manager : i mean th th certainly . um i ca n't think of anything off the s top of my head , industrial designer : they usually have the little light uh source , project manager : but there are certainly things that you buy . i mean calculators for example . industrial designer : i dunno what the heck they 're called , user interface : yeah , they have that little solar industrial designer : the but project manager : som well some do , industrial designer : yeah , the little cells that project manager : i mean th th but there are battery ones industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that um are you know , sort of permanently sealed . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : in in fact i 'd user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting . </s> grad a : yeah , i think i got my mike on . ok . let 's see . professor b : ok . ami , do yours then we 'll open it and i think it 'll be enough . grad a : mmm does n't , uh it should be the other way . yeah , now it 's on . phd f : right . ok . professor b : ok . so , we all switched on ? grad a : we are all switched on , yeah . professor b : alright . anyway . so , uh , before we get started with the , uh , technical part , i just want to review what i think is happening with the our data collection . phd f : we are all switched on . professor b : so uh , probably after today , that should n't come up in this meeting . th - this this is s should be im it is n't there 's another thing going on of gathering data , and that 's pretty much independent of this . but , uh , i just want to make sure we 're all together on this . what we think is gon na happen is that , uh , in parallel starting about now we 're gon na get fey to , where you 're working with me and robert , draft a note that we 're gon na send out to various cogsci c and other classes saying , `` here 's an opportunity to be a subject . contact fey . `` and then there 'll be a certain number of um , hours during the week which she will be available and we 'll bring in people . uh , roughly how many , robert ? we d do we know ? grad c : um , fifty was our sort of our first professor b : ok . so , we 're looking for a total of fifty people , not necessarily by any means all students but we 'll s we 'll start with with that . in parallel with that , we 're gon na need to actually do the script . and , so , i guess there 's a plan to have a meeting friday afternoon uh , with uh , jane , and maybe liz and whoever , on actually getting the script worked out . but what i 'd like to do , if it 's o k , is to s to , as i say , start the recruiting in parallel and possibly start running subjects next week . the week after that 's spring break , and maybe we 'll look for them some subjects next door grad c : yeah . professor b : or i grad c : yeah . also , fey will not be here during spring break . professor b : oh , ok , then we wo n't do it . ok . so that 's easy . um . so , is is that make sense to everybody ? grad c : yeah . also , um , f both fey and i will , um , do something of which i may , eh kindly ask you to to do the same thing , which is we gon na check out our social infrastructures for possible subjects . meaning , um , kid children 's gymnastic classes , pre - school parents and so forth . they also sometimes have flexible schedules . so , if you happen to be sort of in a non - student social setting , and you know people who may be interested in being subjects we also considered using the berkeley high school and their teachers , maybe , and get them interested in stuff . professor b : that 's a good idea . grad c : and , um . so that 's as far as our brainstorming was concerned . professor b : oh , yeah . the high school 's a great idea . grad c : so . but i i will just make a first draft of the , uh , note , the `` write - up `` note , send it to you and fey and then professor b : and why do n't you also copy jane on it ? grad c : and , um , are we have we concurred that , uh , these these forms are sufficient for us , and necessary ? professor b : uh , th i think they 're necessary . this the permission form . uh , there has to be one , grad c : nuh . n . professor b : and i think we 're just gon na use it as it is , and um grad c : n . you happy with that ? professor b : well , yeah . there 's one tricky part about , um , they have the right um i the last paragraph { comment } `` if you agree to participate you have the opportunity to have anything excised which you would prefer not to have included in the data set . `` ok ? now that , we had to be included for this other one which might have , uh , meetings , you know , about something . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : in this case , it does n't really make sense . um , so what i 'd like to do is also have our subjects sign a waiver saying `` i do n't want to see the final transcript `` . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : and if they do n't if they say `` no , i 'm not willing to sign that `` , then we 'll show them the final transcript . but , um . grad c : yep . makes sense . professor b : that , uh yeah , so we might actually , um s i jane may say that , `` you know , you ca n't do this `` , uh , `` on the same form , we need a separate form . `` but anyway . i 'd i 'd i 'd like to , e e um , add an a little thi eh a thing for them to initial , saying `` nah , do i do n't want to see the final transcript . `` grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : but other than that , that 's one 's been approved , this really is the same project , uh , rec you know . and so forth . so i think we just go with it . grad c : yeah . yeah . ok . so much for the data , except that with munich everything is fine now . they 're gon na transcribe . they 're also gon na translate the , uh , german data from the tv and cinema stuff for andreas . so . they 're they all seem to be happy now , with that . so . w c sh should we move on to the technical sides ? well i guess the good good news of last week was the parser . so , um bhaskara and i started working on the the parser . then bhaskara went to class and once he came back , um , it was finished . so . it , uh i did n't measure it , but it was about an hour and ten minutes . and , um and now it 's we have a complete english parser that does everything the german parser does . grad d : something like that . professor b : which is not a lot . but grad d : that 's the , uh , point . grad c : the uh , that 's not a lot . professor b : right . grad c : and um . grad e : what did you end up having to do ? i mean , wha was there anything interesting about it at all ? grad c : well , if you , eh grad d : we 'll show you . professor b : yeah , we can show us , grad e : or are we gon na see that ? professor b : right ? grad c : well , w w we d the first we did is we we tried to to do change the the `` laufen `` into `` run `` , or `` running `` , or `` runs `` . and we noticed that whatever we tried to do , it no effect . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : and we were puzzled . and , uh , the reason was that the parser i c completely ignores the verb . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : so this sentence sentence is parses the p the same output , grad e : hmm . interesting parser property . grad c : um , even if you leave out , um , all all of this . grad e : i see . yeah . grad c : so it 's basically feature film and tv . that 's what you need . if if you 'd add add today and evening , it 'll add time or not . grad e : and the t and the time , right ? grad c : so it i it does look at that . but all the rest is p simply frosting on the cake , and it 's optional for that parser . grad e : true . professor b : so , you can sho you you are are you gon na show us the little templates ? grad c : and yeah . we ar we can sh er i can show you the templates . i i also have it running here , grad e : the former end g `` oh , i see . uh - huh . grad c : so if i do this now , um , you can see that it parsed the wonderful english sentence , `` which films are on the cinema today evening ? `` but , um . professor b : well , that sounds grad c : uh do do n't worry about it . it could be `` this evening , which which films are on the cinema `` , or `` running in the cinema , which `` uh , `` today evening `` , uh i `` is anything happening in the cinema this evening ? `` grad e : ok . ok . key words , e basically . grad c : ge - elaborate , or , more or less , uh professor b : actually , it 's a little tricky , in that there 's some allowable german orders which are n't allowable english orders and so forth . and it is order - based . so it it is n't it ? oh . so it it doe i it these u these optional elements , grad c : it is not professor b : it 's it 's actually a set , not a sequence ? grad c : yeah . we were i was afraid that , um grad e : so it really is key word matching , basically . professor b : really a se phd f : e yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : oh , wow . grad c : um , i mean , these sentences are just silly . i mean , uh , d these were not the ones we we actually did it . um . what 's an idiomatic of phrasing this ? which films are showing ? grad d : are pl playing at the cinema ? grad c : playing ? grad d : yeah . grad e : tonight ? grad d : i changed that file , actually , where it 's on my account . grad e : this this evening ? phd f : actually , you would say , `` which films are on tonight ? `` grad d : you want to get it ? or is di was it easy to get it ? grad c : um . i have no net here . grad d : oh , ok . professor b : do i ? grad c : ok . so . wonderful parse , same thing . um . professor b : right . grad c : except that we d w we do n't have this , uh , time information here now , which is , um oh . this are the reserve . anyways . so . um . these are the sort of the ten different sentence types that the uh the parser was able to do . and it still is , now in english . professor b : yeah . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : and , um sorry . and , um you have already to make it a little bit more elaborate , right ? grad d : yeah , i mean i changed those sentences to make it , uh , more , uh , idiomatic . and , of course , you can have i many variations in those sentences , they will still parse fine . so , in a sense it 's pretty broad . grad c : ok . so , if you want to look at the templates , they 're conveniently located in a file , `` template `` . um , and this is what i had to do . i had to change , @ @ { comment } `` spielfilm `` to `` film `` , uh , `` film `` to `` movie `` , cinem `` kino `` to `` cinema `` to `` today `` heu `` heute `` to `` today `` , evening `` abend `` to `` evening `` professor b : capitalized as well grad c : and , um . grad d : one thing i was wondering , was , those functions there , are those things that modify the m - three - l basically ? grad c : and that 's that 's the next step , but we 'll get to that in a second . and so this means , um , `` this `` and `` see `` are not optional . `` want i like `` is all maybe in there , but may also not be in there . professor b : so so , the point is , if it says `` this `` and `` see `` , it also will work in `` see `` and `` this `` ? in the other order ? grad c : yeah . professor b : with those two key words ? grad c : should we try it ? professor b : `` this is the one i want to see `` or whatever . grad c : ok . `` action watch `` , whatever . nothing was specialfi specified . except that it has some references to audio - visual media here . grad d : av medium . grad c : where it gets that from grad d : yeah . grad c : it 's correct , but i do n't know where it gets it from . grad d : `` see `` . grad c : oh , `` see `` . yeah . yeah . yep . ok . grad d : i mean it 's sort of grad c : and `` see this `` { comment } is exactly the same thing . professor b : ok , so it is set - based . alright . grad d : one thing i was wondering was , those percentage signs , right ? so , i mean , why do we even have them ? because if you did n't have them grad c : uh , i 'll tell you why . because it gives a you a score . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : and the value of the score is , v i assume , i guess , the more of these optional things that are actually in there , the higher the r score it is . grad d : oh . ok . so that 's the main purpose . alright . grad e : it 's a match . phd f : right . grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : so we we should n't belittle it too much . it 's doing something , some things , and it 's very flexible . i 've just tried to grad e : mm - hmm . grad c : be nice . phd f : right . professor b : no , no . fine . grad e : right yeah . professor b : yeah , yeah , yeah , flexible it is . phd f : but grad c : ok . um , let 's hope that the generation will not be more difficult , even though the generator is a little bit more complex . uh but we 'll mmm , that means we may need two hours and twenty minutes rather than an hour ten minutes , professor b : alright . grad c : i hope . grad d : right . grad c : and the next thing i would like to be able to do , and it seems like this would not be too difficult either , is to say , `` ok let 's now pretend we actually wanted to not only change the the mapping of of , uh , words to the m - three - l but we also wanted to change add a new sentence type and and make up some some new m - three - l s `` professor b : yep . so that 'd be great . it would be a good exercise to just see whether one can get that to run . grad c : see th mm - hmm . yep . and , um , grad d : so , that 's grad c : that 's should n't be too tough . grad d : fine , yeah . yeah , so where are those those functions `` action `` , `` goodbye `` , and so on , right ? are they actually , um , are they going to be called ? um , are they present in the code for the parser ? grad c : yeah . i think what it does , it i i it does something sort of fancy . it loads um it has these style sheets and also the , um , schemata . so what it probably does , is it takes the , uh , um is this where it is ? this is already the xml stuff ? this is where it takes its own , um , syntax , and converts it somehow . um . where is the uh grad d : what are you looking for ? grad c : um , where it actually produces the the xml out of the , uh , parsed stuff . grad d : oh , ok . grad c : no , this is not it . uh . i ca n't find it now . you mean , where the where the act how the action `` goodbye `` maps into something grad d : yeah . grad a : yeah , where are those constructors defined ? grad c : nope . grad d : no , that 's not it . grad c : yeah . this is sort of what happens . this is what you would need to to change to get the , uh , xml changed . so when it encounts encounters `` day `` , it will , uh , activate those h classes in the in the xml stuff but , um i saw those actions uh , the `` goodbye `` stuff somewhere . hmm , hmm , hmm , hmm , hmm . grad a : grep for it ? grad c : yeah . let 's do that . oh . grad d : mmm . m - three - l dot dtd ? that 's just a specification for the xml format . grad c : yep . well , we 'll find that out . so whatever n this does i mean this is , basically , looks l to me like a function call , right ? professor b : hmm ? oh , yeah . grad c : and , um so , whenever it it encounters `` goodbye `` , which we can make it do in a second , here grad a : that function automatically generates an initialized xml structure ? grad d : i think each of those functions act on the current xml structure , and change it in some way , for example , by adding a a l a field to it , or something . professor b : y yeah . they also seem to affect state , grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : cause some of them there were other actions uh , that that s seemed to step state variables somewhere , grad d : right . professor b : like the n s `` discourse status confirm `` . ok . so that 's going to be a call on the discourse and confirm that it 's grad c : w we mm - hmm grad d : oh , you mean that 's not going to actually modify the tree , professor b : i think that 's right . grad d : but it 's going to change the event . professor b : i think it 's actually that looks like it 's state modification . grad d : oh . oh . grad c : e mmm um , well i there is a feature called `` discourse - status `` , grad d : when there 's a feature . professor b : yeah . grad c : and so whenever i just say , `` write `` , it will it will put this in here . professor b : oh , so it always just is it so it well , go back , then , cuz it may be that all those th things , while they look like function calls , are just a way of adding exactly that to the xml . grad c : h yep . professor b : uh - huh ! i 'm not i 'm not sure . grad c : so , this professor b : e i 'm not sure e that grad c : um well , we we 'll see , when we say , let 's test something , `` goodbye `` , causes it to c to create basically an `` action goodbye - end - action `` . professor b : right . grad c : which is a means of telling the system to shut down . professor b : right . grad c : now , if we know that `` write `` produces a `` feature discourse - status confirm discourse - status `` . so if i now say `` write , goodbye , `` it should do that . it sho it creates this , grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : right . grad c : `` confirm goodbye `` . grad d : right there . but there is some kind of function call , because how does it know to put goodbye in content , but , uh , confirm in features ? grad c : oh . it d it n that 's because grad d : so so , it 's not just that it 's adding that field . professor b : right . absolutely . good point . it 's it 's the it 's under what sub - type you 're doing it . yeah . grad c : mm - hmm . yeah . grad a : it 's mystery functions . grad c : well , sometimes it m sometimes , i grad d : well , they 're defined somewhere , presumably . professor b : yeah , each is s so that 's funny . grad c : when it professor b : you bury the s the state in the function alright . grad c : it grad a : well , it just automatically initializes things that are common , right ? so it 's just a shorthand . professor b : yeah . grad c : for example oh , this is german . sorry . e so , now , this , it can not do anymore . nothing comes out of here . grad a : a `` not a number `` is a value . awesome . grad c : so , it does n't speak german anymore , but it does speak english . and there is , here , a reference so , this tells us that whatever is has the id `` zero `` is referenced here by @ @ { comment } the restriction seed and this is exa `` i want `` what was the sentence ? professor b : `` i want two seats here . `` grad c : `` need two seats here . `` nuh . `` and where is it playing ? `` there should also be a reference to something , maybe . our d this is re um mmm . here , we change and so , we here we add something to the discourse - status , that the user wants to change something that was sort of done before and , uh and that , whatever is being changed has something to do with the cinema . grad a : so then , whatever takes this m - three - l is what actually changes the state , not the yeah , ok . professor b : no , right , the discourse maintainer , grad a : yeah . professor b : yeah . i see . and it and it runs around looking for discourse status tags , and doing whatever it does with them . and other people ignore those tags . alright . so , yeah . i definitely think it 's it 's worth the exercise of trying to actually add something that is n't there . uh disc grad c : sort of get a complete understanding of the whole thing . professor b : yeah , a kid understanding what 's going on . then the next thing we talked about is actually , um , figuring out how to add our own tags , and stuff like that . grad c : ok . point number two . i got the , uh , m - three - l for the routes today . uh , so i got some more . this is sort of the uh , um , hmm . interesting . it 's just going up , it 's not going back down . so , this is um , what i got today is the the new um m - three - l for um , the maps , uh , and with some examples so , this is the xml and this is sort of what it will look like later on , even though it you ca n't see it on on this resolution . and this is what it sort of is the the structure of map requests , um also not very interesting , and here is the more interesting stuff for us , is the routes , route elements , and , again , as we thought it 's really simple . this is sort of the , uh , um , parameters . we have @ @ { comment } simple `` from objects `` and `` to objects `` and so forth , points of interest along the way and , um , i asked them whether or not we could , um first of all , i was little bit it seemed to me that this m way of doing it is sort of a stack a step backwards from the way we 've done it before . t it seems to me that some notions were missing . so these are these are professor b : so these are these are your friends back at eml . grad c : yep . who are doing this . professor b : so this is not a complicated negotiation . there 's there 's not seven committees , or anything , right ? grad c : no . no , this is very straightforward . professor b : great . so this is just trying to it 's a design thing , not a political thing . once we 've eh we can just sort of agree on what oughta be done . grad c : yeah . professor b : good . grad c : exactly . and , um and , uh however , the , uh e so that you understand , it is really simple . uh you you have a route , and you cut it up in different pieces . and every every element of that e r r f of that every segment we call a `` route element `` . and so , from a to b we cut up in three different steps , and every step has a `` from object `` where you start , a `` to object `` where y where you sort of end , and some points of interest along the way . what w i was sort of missing here , and uh , maybe it was just me being too stupid , is , i did n't sort of get the the notion of the global goal of the whole route . really , s was not straightforward visibly for me . and some other stuff . and i suggested that they should n be k uh , kind enough to do s two things for us , is one , um , also allocating , uh , some tags for our action schema enter - vista - approach , and and also , um , since you had suggested that that , um , we figure out if we ever , for a demo reason , wanted to shortcut directly to the g gis and the planner , of how we can do it . now , what 's the state of the art of getting to entrances , um , what 's the syntax for that , how get getting to vista points and calculating those on the spot . and the approach mode , anyhow , is the default . that 's all they do it these days . wherever you 'll find a route planner it n does nothing but get to the closest point where the street network is at minimal distance to the geometric center . professor b : mm - hmm . so , well , let now , this is important . let , uh i want a a again , outside of m almost managerial point , um you 're in the midst of this , so you know better . but it seems to me it 's probably a good idea to li uh minimize the number of uh , change requests we make of them . so it seemed to me , what we ought to do is get our story together . ok ? and think about it some , internally , before asking them to make changes . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : oh . does this does this make sense to you guys ? it i mean you 're you 're doing the the interaction but it seemed to me that what we ought to do is come up with a uh , something where you , um and i i do n't know who 's mok working most closely on it . probably johno . ok . uh , take what they have , send it to everybody saying `` this is what they have , this is what we think we should add `` , ok ? and then have a d a an iteration within our group saying `` hmm , well `` ok ? and get our best idea of what we should add . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : and then go back to them . is i or , i do n't know does this make sense to you ? or grad c : yeah . especially if we want sort of , what i my feeling was eh we we sort of reserved something that has a r eh an ok label . that 's th that was my th first sort of step . professor b : mm - hmm . grad c : i w no matter how we want to call it , this is sort of our playground . professor b : right . grad c : and if we get something in there that is a structure elaborate and and and and and complex enough to to to maybe enable a whole simulation , one of these days , that would be u the the perfect goal . professor b : right . that 's right . so . so , yeah . the problem is n't the short ra range optimization . it 's the sort of o one or two year kind of thing . ok . what are the thl class of things we think we might try to do in a year or two ? how how would we try to characterize those and what do we want to request now that 's leave enough space to do all that stuff ? grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : right . and that re that requires some thought . and so that sounds like a great thing to do as the priority item um , as soon as we can do it . so y so you guys will send to the rest of us um a version of um , this , and the uh , description grad a : with sugge yeah , suggested improvements and professor b : well b yeah . so , the the uh not everyone uh , reads german , so if you 'd um tu uh , tur change the description to , uh , english and , um , then then , yeah . then , with some sug s suggestions about where where do we go from here ? uh , this and this , of course , was just the action end . uh , at some point we 're going to have to worry about the language end . but for the moment just uh , t for this class of of things , we might want to try to encompass . and grad a : then the scope of this is beyond approach and vis - or vista . yeah , yeah . professor b : oh , yeah , yeah yeah yeah . this is this is everything that that , um , you know , um we might want to do in the next couple years . grad a : yeah , yeah . so what would professor b : we do n't i mean , that 's an issue . we do n't know what , entirely . grad a : uh , yeah . but i 'm just but the yeah , ok . so i just this xml stuff here just has to do with source - path - goal type stuff , in terms of traveling through heidelberg . or travel , specifically . professor b : right . grad a : so , but this o is the domain greater than that ? professor b : i think i think the i the idea is that oh . it 's beyond source - path - goal , but i think we do n't need to get beyond it @ @ { comment } tourists in heidelberg . it seems to me we can get all the complexity we want in actions and in language without going outside of tourists in heidelberg . ok ? but you know , i depending on what people are interested in , one could have , uh , tours , one could have um , explanations of why something is is , you know , why why was this done , or i mean , no there 's no end to the complexity you can build into the uh , what a tourist in heidelberg might ask . so , at least unless somebody else wants t to suggest otherwise i think the general domain we do n't have t to uh , broaden . that is , tourists in heidelberg . and if there 's something somebody comes up with that ca n't be done that way , then , sure . w we 'll we 'll look at that , but uh i 'd be s i i 'd be surprised at if there 's any important issue that that and , um i mean if if you want to uh , push us into reference problems , that would be great . ok , so this is his specialty is reference , grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : and you know , what what are these things referring to ? not only anaphora , but , uh , more generally the , uh this whole issue of , uh , referring expressions , and , what is it that they 're actually dealing with in the world ? grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : and , again , this is li in the databa this is also pretty well formed because there is an ontology , and the database , and stuff . so it is n't like , um , you know , the evening star or stuff like that . phd f : right . professor b : i i it all the entities do have concrete reference . although th the to get at them from a language may not be trivial . phd f : right . professor b : there are n't really deep mysteries about um , what w what things the system knows about . phd f : right . right . and you have both proper names and descriptions professor b : all those things . phd f : and y and you can ask for it . professor b : yeah . you have proper names , and descriptions . grad c : mm - hmm . phd f : right . professor b : and a l and a lot and and anaphora , and pronouns , phd f : ok . right . professor b : and all those things . phd f : right . grad c : now , we hav the the whole unfortunately , the whole database is , uh , in german . we have just commissioned someone to translate some bits of it , ie the e the shortest k the the more general descriptions of all the objects and , um , persons and events . so , it 's a relational database with persons , events , and , um , objects . and it 's it 's quite , um , there . but did y i uh i think there will be great because the reference problem really is not trivial , even if you have such a g well - defined world . professor b : he knows . grad c : ah - he you are not , uh , throwing uh , uh , carrying owls to athens . grad a : could you give me an example of a reference problem ? so so l i can make it more concrete ? grad c : well how do i get to the powder - tower ? we sort of t think that our bit in this problem is interesting , but , just to get from powder - tower to an object i id in a database is also not really trivial . phd f : or or if you take something even more scary , um , `` how do i get to the third building after the tower ? the ple - powder - tower ? `` uh , you need some mechanism for professor b : yeah . or , you know , the church across from city hall , or grad a : or the re the restaurant where they wear lederhosen ? grad c : or the phd f : right . grad a : or is that professor b : yeah , that would be fine . phd f : right . professor b : yeah . grad c : o or or tower , or this tower , or that building , or phd f : right . grad e : uniquely . grad a : ok . trying to professor b : or you can say `` how `` you know , `` how do i get back ? `` grad a : yeah , yeah . professor b : ok . and , again , it 's just a question of which of these things , uh , people want to dive into . what , uh , i think i 'm gon na try to do , and i guess , pwww ! let 's say that by the end of spring break , i 'll try to come up with some general story about , um , construction grammar , and what constructions we 'd use and how all this might fit together . there 's this whole framework problem that i 'm feeling really uncomfortable about . and i have n't had a chance to think about it seriously . but i i want to i want to do that early , rather than late . and you and i will probably have to talk about this some . grad c : u u u u that 's what strikes me , that we sort of the de g uh , small something , uh , maybe we should address one of these days , is to that most of the work people actually always do is look at some statements , and and analyze those . whether it 's abstracts or newspapers and stuff like this . but the whole i is it is it really relevant that we are dealing mostly with , sort of , questions ? professor b : oh , yeah ? grad c : uh , you know professor b : well , i mean yeah , i d grad c : and this is it seems to me that we should maybe at least spend a session or or brainstorm a little bit about whether that l this is special case in that sense . grad d : mm - hmm . grad c : um , i do n't know . you know did we ever find m metaphorical use in in questions in in that sense , really ? professor b : yeah . you will . grad c : and how soon , professor b : oh , yeah . grad c : i do n't know . professor b : i mean , uh , we could take all the standard metaphor examples and make question versions of them . ok . grad c : `` who got kicked out of france ? `` professor b : yeah , or , you know . `` wh - why is he why is he pushing for promotion ? `` phd f : right . professor b : or , `` who 's pushing proof `` er , just pick pick any of them and just do the eh grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : so i do n't i do n't think , uh , it 's at all difficult uh , to convert them to question forms that really exist and people say all the time , um and sort of we do n't know how to handle them , too . right ? i mean , it 's i d it we do n't know how to handle the declarative forms , @ @ { comment } really , and , then , the interrogative forms , ah - oh . uh . yeah . nancy , it looked like you were s grad e : oh . it 's just that that the goals are g very different to cases so we had this problem last year when we first thought about this domain , actually , was that most of the things we talked about are our story understanding . professor b : right . grad e : uh , we 're gon na have a short discourse and the person talking is trying to , i do n't know , give you a statement and tell you something . and here , it 's th grad c : help you create a mental model , blah - blah - blah . yeah . grad e : yea - eh y yeah , i guess so . and then here , y you are j uh , the person is getting information and they or may not be following some larger plan , you know , that we have to recognize or , you know , infer . and th th the their discourse patterns probably do n't follo follow quite as many logical connec professor b : right . no , i think that 's one of things that 's interesting , is is in this sort of over - arching story we we worked it out for th as you say , this the storytelling scenario . grad e : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : and i think it 's really worth thinking through what it looks like . grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : what is the simspec mean , et cetera . grad e : mm - hmm . m right . cuz for a while we were thinking , `` well , how can we change the , um , data to sort of illicit tha illicit , um , actions that are more like what we are used to ? `` but obviously we would rather , you know , try to figure out what 's what 's , you know professor b : well , i do n't know . i mean , maybe maybe that 's what we 'll do is is s u e we can do anything we want with it . i mean , once we have fulfilled these requirements , grad e : yep . mmm mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : ok , and the one for next uh , summer is just half done and then the other half is this , um , `` generation thing `` which we think is n't much different . grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : so once that 's done , then all the rest of it is , uh , sort of , you know , what we want to do for the research . and we can w we can do all sorts of things that do n't fit into their framework at all . th - there 's no reason why we 're c we 're constrained to do that . grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : if we can use all the , uh , execution engines , then we can , you know , really try things that would be too too much pain to do ourselves . grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : but there 's no obligation on any of this . so , if we want to turn it into u understan standing stories about heidelberg , we can do that . i mean , that would just be a t a um grad c : or , as a matter of fact , we need and if we if we ' r eh take a ten year perspective , we need to do that , because w e w a assuming we have this , um , we we ta in that case we actually do have these wonderful stories , and historical anecdotes , professor b : yeah . grad c : and knights jumping out of windows , and - and - and { comment } { comment } tons of stuff . so , th the database is huge , and if we want to answer a question on that , we actually have to go one step before that , and understand that . in order to e do sensible information extraction . grad e : mm - hmm . yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : you might , yeah . grad c : and so , um , this has been a a a deep map research issue that was is is part of the unresolved , and to - do 's , and something for the future , is how can we sort of run our our text , our content , through a machine that will enable us , later , to retrieve or answer e questions more sensibly ? phd f : mwa mm - hmm . grad e : mm - hmm . mmm . professor b : right . anyway . s who 's going ? phd f : so , uh so , uh , i was just going to ask , um , so , what is the the basic thing that that you are , um , obligated to do , um , uh , by the summer before w uh y c we can move professor b : ah ! ok . so eh yeah . so , what happened is , there 's this , eh , uh robert was describing the there 's two packages there 's a , uh , quote parser , there 's a particular piece of this big system , which , in german , uh , takes these t sentence templates and produces xml structures . and one of our jobs was to make the english equivalent of that . phd f : right . professor b : that , these guys did in a in a day . phd f : right . right . professor b : the other thing is , at the other end , roughly at the same level , there 's something that takes , uh , x m l structures , produces an output xml structure which is instructions for the generator . phd f : right . professor b : ok ? and then there 's a language generator , and then after that a s a synthesizer that goes from an xml structure to , uh , language generation , to actual specifications for a synthesizer . eh , but again , there 's one module in which there 's one piece that we have to convert to english . phd f : right . right . got it . professor b : is that ok . and that but as i say , this is all along was viewed as a kind of a m a minor thing , necessary , but but not phd f : right . right . professor b : and much more interesting is the fact that , as part of doing this , we we are , you know , inheriting this system that does all sort of these other things . phd f : that 's great ! right . professor b : not precisely what we want , and that 's that 's wh where it it gets difficult . and i i do n't pretend to understand yet what i think we really ought to do . grad c : ok . so , e enough of that , but i , uh , um , mmm , the e sort of , johno and i will take up that responsibility , and , um , get a first draft of that . now , we have um just , i think two more short things . um , y you guys sort of started fighting , uh , on the bayes - net `` noisy - or `` front ? grad d : hmm . yeah , i thought i should , um , talk a little bit about that , because that might be a good , uh , sort of architecture to have , in general for , uh , problems with , you know , multiple inputs to a node . professor b : good ! ok . good . and what 's the other one ? so that just we know what the d agenda is ? grad c : um , the wu paper , i think maybe professor b : oh , yeah . i 've got a couple new wu papers as well . uh , so i i 've been in contact with wu , so , probably let 's put that off till i i till i understand better , uh , what he 's doing . it 's just a little embarrassing cause all this was in his thesis and i was on his thesis committee , and , so , i r really knew this at one time . but , i i it 's not only uh is part of what i have n't figured out yet is is how all this goes together . so i 'll dig up some more stuff from dekai . and so why do n't we just do the , uh grad d : ok . so should i is there a white board here that i can use ? professor b : yeah . you could grad d : uh grad e : yeah . professor b : squealing sound ? grad d : or shall i just use this ? professor b : it 's probably just as easy . i phd f : yeah . grad d : yeah . grad a : you can put the microphone in your pocket . i was envying you and your pocket cause i do n't have one . grad e : it was a quick one , huh ? professor b : that 's why they invented `` pocket t 's `` . grad a : exactly grad e : they have clips ! grad d : yeah . so , um recall that , uh , we want to have this kind of structure in our bayes - nets . namely , that , um you have these nodes that have several bands , right ? so does i mean , they sort of the typical example is that , um , these are all a bunch of cues for something , and this is a certain effect that we 'd like to conclude . so , uh like , let 's just look at the case when , um , this is actually the the final action , right ? so this is like , uh , you know , touch , or grad c : e - eva grad d : sorry . uh yeah , e - eva , right ? grad c : yeah . grad d : enter , v view , approach , right ? phd f : w what was this ? it i i i ehhh , { comment } i ehhh . professor b : wri - write it out for for grad d : so , this is yeah . enter , phd f : i mean grad d : view , approach . phd f : ok . right . grad d : right . so , i mean , we 'd like to take all these various cues , right ? phd f : like the army . grad d : so this one might be , say , uh grad e : new terminology ? phd f : yeah . grad d : well , let me pick a random one grad e : i have n't heard that before . grad d : and say , uh i do n't know , it could be , like this is n't the way it really is , but let me say that , suppose someone mentioned , uh , admission fees ah , it takes too long . try let me just say `` landmark `` . if the thing is a landmark , you know , um then there 's another thing that says if um if it 's closed or not , at the moment . alright , so you have nodes . right ? and the , uh , problem that we were having was that , you know , given n - nodes , there 's `` two to the n `` given n - nodes , and furthermore , the fact that there 's three things here , we need to specify `` three times `` , uh , `` two to the n `` probabilities . right ? that 's assuming these are all binary , which f they may not be . for example , they could be `` time of day `` , in which case we could , uh , say , you know , `` morning , afternoon , evening , night `` . so , this could be more so , it 's a lot , anyway . and , that 's a lot of probabilities to put here , which is kind of a pain . so noisy - ors are a way to , uh , sort of deal with this . um where should i put this ? so , the idea is that , um , let 's call these , uh , c - one , c - two , c - three , and c - four , and e , for cause and effect , i guess . the idea is to have these intermediate nodes . right . well , actually , the idea , first of all , is that each of these things has a quote - unquote distinguished state , which means that this is the state in which we do n't really know anything about it . so right ? so , for example , if we do n't really know if the thing is a landmark or not , or , i if that just does n't seem relevant , then that would be th sort of the disting - the distinguish state . it 's a really , you know , if there is something for the person talking about the admission fee , you know , if they did n't talk about it , that would be the distinguish state . grad c : s so , this is a fanciful way of saying `` default `` ? grad d : so yeah , yeah . that 's just what they the word they used in that paper . grad c : mm - hmm . grad d : so , the idea is that , um , you have these intermediate nodes , right ? e - one , e - two , e - three and e - four ? professor b : so , this is the heckerman paper you 're working with ? good . grad d : yeah . so the idea is that , each of these ei is represents what this would be if all the other ones were in the distinguish state . right ? so , for example , suppose that the person i mean , suppose the thing that they talked about is a landmark . but none of the other sort of cues really apply . then , this would be w the this would just represent the probability distribution of this , assuming that this cue is turned on and the other ones just did n't apply ? so , you know , if it is a landmark , and no none of the other things really ap applicable , then this would represent the probability distribution . so maybe in this case maybe we just t k maybe we decide that , if the thing 's a landmark and we do n't know anything else , then we 're gon na conclude that , um they want to view it with probability , you know , point four . they want to enter it with probability , uh with probability point five and they want to approach it probability point one , say right ? so we come up with these l little tables for each of those ok . and the final thing is that , um this is a deterministic function of these , so we do n't need to specify any probabilities . we just have to , um , say what function this is , right ? so we can let this be , um g of e - one comma e - two . e - three , e - four . right ? and our example g would be , um , a majority vote ? right ? professor b : well . ok , so th so the important point is w not what the g function is . the important point is that um there is a a a general kind of idea of shortcutting the full cpt . th - c the full conditional probability table with some function . ok ? which y w you choose appropriately for each case . so , depending on what your situation is , there are different functions which are most appropriate . and so i gave eh bhaskara a copy of this , eh sort of `` ninety - two `` { comment } paper . d and you got one , robert . grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : i do n't know who else has seen it . grad d : there 's i mean yeah . it 's heckerman and breese . professor b : it 's short . it 's short . grad d : yeah . professor b : so , i u w um , yo uh you have you read it yet ? grad d : uh , you can yeah , you should take a look at it , i guess . professor b : ok , so you should take a look . nancy , i 'm sure you read it at some point in life . grad e : i yeah . i i think so , yeah . professor b : ok . and so , you other guys can decide how interested grad e : yeah , @ @ . professor b : anyway . so the paper is n't th is n't real hard . and uh one of the questions just come at bhaskara is , `` how much of this does javabayes support ? `` grad d : yeah , it 's a good question . um the so what we want , is basically javabayes to support deterministic , uh , functions . professor b : right . grad d : and , um in a sense it sup we can make it supported by , um , manually , uh , entering , you know , probabilities that are one and zeros , right ? professor b : right . so the little handout that the little thing that i sent i sent a message saying , uh , here is a way to take one thing you could do , which is kind of s in a way , stupid , is take this deterministic function , and use it to build the cpt . so , if ba - javabayes wo n't do it for you , that you can convert all that into what the cpt would be . um and , what i sent out about a week ago , was an idea of how to do that , for , um , evidence combination . so one of one function that you could use as your `` g function `` is an e e evidence - combining . so you just take the uh , if each of th if each of the ones has its own little table like that , then you could take the , uh , strength of each of those , times its little table , and you 'd add up the total evidence for `` v `` , `` e `` , and `` a `` . grad d : mmm . i do n't think you can do this , because g is a function from that to that . grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : yep . right . grad d : right ? so there 's no numbers . there 's just quadruplets of well , n - duplets of , uh , e vs . professor b : i i i no , no but i 'm saying is there there is a w i mean , if y if if you decide what 's what is appropriate , is probablistic evidence combination , you can write a function that does it . it 's a pui it 's actually one of the examples he 's got in there . but , anyway , s skipping skipping the question of exactly which functions now is it clear that you might like to be able to shortcut the whole conditional probability table . grad c : i mean , in some it seems very plausible in some sense , where we will be likely to not be observe some of the stuff . cuz we do n't have the a access to the information . grad d : oops , { comment } sorry . professor b : right . that 's one of the problems , is , w is is , where would th where would it all come from ? grad c : yeah . so . grad d : is oh , right . w would not be ab able to observe what ? grad c : i if it 's a a a discar discourse initial phrase , we will have nothing in the discourse history . so , if if we ever want to wonder what was mention grad d : oh oh . a are you saying that we 'll not be able to observe certain nodes ? that 's fine . that is sort of orthogonal thing . professor b : yeah , so there 's there 's two separate things , robert . the f the the the bayes - nets in general are quite good at saying , `` if you have no current information about this variable just take the prior for that . `` ok ? th - that 's what they 're real good at . so , if you do n't have any information about the discourse , you just use your priors of of whatever eh the discourse uh , eh , basically whatever w it 's probabilistically , whatever it would be . and it 's it 's sort of not a great estimate , grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : but it 's the best one you have , and , so forth . so that , they 're good at . but the other problem is , how do you fill in all these numbers ? and i think that 's the one he was getting at . grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : yeah . so , specifically in this case you have to f have this many numbers , grad e : yeah . grad d : whereas in this case you just have to have three for this , three for this , three for this . right ? grad c : mm - hmm . grad d : so you have to have just three n ? so , this is much smaller than that . grad a : asymptotically . grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : well , pretty quickly . grad d : yeah . right . grad a : u yeah , yeah . professor b : i mean grad e : so , you do n't need da data enough to cover uh , nearly as much stuff . grad d : i do n't know . grad a : so , really , i what a a noisy - or seems to kind of `` neural - net - acize `` these bayes - nets ? professor b : eh well to some no , no . so , `` noisy - or `` is a funny way of referring to this , because the noisy - or is only one instance . grad d : yeah . this is n't a noisy - or anymore . professor b : that one actually is n't a noisy - or . so we 'll have to think of of a way t t grad a : yeah . grad d : it 's a noisy - arg - max or a noisy - whatever . professor b : yeah , whatever . yeah . so eh { comment } um grad a : well , my point was more that we just eh with the neural net , right , eh , things come in , you have a function that combines them and professor b : yeah , it it tha - that 's true . it is a is also more neural - net - like , although uh , it is n't necessarily sum uh , s you know , sum of weights or anything like that . grad a : right . professor b : i mean i you could have , uh , like the noisy - or function , really is one that 's essentially says , uh , take the max . grad d : well , the `` or `` . professor b : same . grad d : right . i guess you 're right . yeah . professor b : uh but anyway . so and , i thi i think that 's the standard way people get around the uh there are a couple other ones . there are ways of breaking this up into s to to subnets and stuff like that . but , um the i think we definitely i think it 's a great idea tha to to pursue that . grad d : yep . so grad c : wha - still sort of leaves one question . it i mean you you can always uh see easily that that i 'm not grasping everything correctly , but what seemed attractive to me in im uh in the last discussion we had , was that we find out a means of of getting these point four , point five , point one , of c - four , not because , you know , a is a landmark or not , but we we we label this whatever object type , and if it 's a garden , it 's point three , point four , point two . if it 's a castle , it 's point eight , point one , point one . if it 's , uh , a town hall , it 's point two , point three , point five . professor b : right . grad c : and so forth . and we do n't want to write this down necessarily every time for something but , uh let 's see . grad d : it 'll be students where else would it be stored ? that 's the question . grad c : well , in the beginning , we 'll write up a flat file . we know we have twenty object types professor b : yeah . grad c : and we 'll write it down in a flat file . professor b : no . so , i is well , let me say something , guys , cuz there 's not there 's a pretty point about this we might as well get in right now . which is the hierarchy that s comes with the ontology is just what you want for this . grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : so that uh , if you know about it let 's say , a particular town hall that , it 's one that is a monument , then , that would be stored there . if you do n't , you look up the hierarchy , eh so , you you you may or so , then you 'd have this little vector of , um , you know , approach mode or eva mode . let 's ok , so we have the eva vector for for various kinds of landmarks . if you know it for a specific landmark you put it there . if you do n't , you just go up the hierarchy to the first place you find one . grad d : ok . so , is the idea to put it in the ontology ? professor b : absolutely . uh , or , link to or but but in any case i view it logically as being in the ontology . it 's part of what you know about a an object , is its eva vector . and , if yo as i say , if you know about a specific object , you put it there . grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : this is part of what dekai was doing . so , when we get to wu , the - e we 'll see w what he says about that . grad d : right . professor b : and , then if you if it is n't there , it 's higher , and if you do n't know anything except that it 's a b it 's it 's a building , then up at the highest thing , you have the pr what amounts to a prior . if you do n't know anything else about a building , uh , you just take whatever your crude approximation is up at that level , grad d : right . professor b : which might be equal , or whatever it is . grad d : yeah . professor b : so , that 's a very pretty relationship between these local vectors and the ontology . and it seems to me the obvious thing to do , unless we find a reason to do something different . grad d : yeah . professor b : does this make sense to you ? grad d : so professor b : bhask - ? grad d : yeah . so , we are but we we 're not doing the ontology , so we have to get to whoever is doing the u ultimately , professor b : indeed . so , that 's another thing we 're gon na need to do , is is , to , either grad d : we have to get them to professor b : we 're gon na need some way to either get a p tag in the ontology , or add fields , or { comment } { comment } some way to associate or , w it may be that all we can do is , um , some of our own hash tables that it th - the th you know , there 's always a way to do that . it 's a just a question of grad a : yeah , hash on object name to , you know , uh , the probabilities or whatever . professor b : i th yeah . e right . and , so , i uh grad c : but it 's , uh well , it strikes me as a what for if we get the mechanism , that will be sort of the wonderful part . and then , how to make it work is is the second part , in the sense that i mean , m the guy who was doing the ontology eh , eh , s ap apologized that i it will take him another through two to three days because they 're having really trouble getting the upper level straight , and right now . the reason is , given the craw bet uh , the the the projects that all carry their own taxonomy and , on all history , they 're really trying to build one top level ontology ft that covers all the eml projects , and that 's , uh , uh , sort of a tough cookie , a little bit tougher than they figured . i could have told them s so . professor b : right . yeah . grad c : uh . but , nevertheless , it 's going to be there by n by , uh , next monday and i will show you what 's what some examples from that for towers , and stuff . and , um , what i do n't think is ever going to be in the ontology , is sort of , you know , the likelihood of , eh , people entering r town halls , and looking at town halls , and approaching town halls , especially since we are b dealing with a case - based , not an instance - based ontology . so , there will be nothing on on that town hall , or on the berkeley town hall , or on the heidelberg town hall , it 'll just be information on town halls . professor b : well , they they they how ar what are they gon na do with instances ? grad c : but what professor b : i mean , you y grad c : well , that 's hhh . that 's that 's al different question . i mean , th the first , they had to make a design question , `` do we take ontologies that have instances ? or just one that does not , that just has the types ? `` and , so , since the d decision was on types , on a d simply type - based , we now have to hook it up to instances . i mean this is professor b : but what i what is smartkom gon na do about that ? grad c : one professor b : cuz , they have instances all the time . grad c : yeah , but the ontology is really not a smartkom thing , in in and of itself . that 's more something that i kicked loose in in eml . so it 's a completely eml thing . professor b : but uh uh smartkom 's gon na need an ontology . grad c : yes , u a w a lot of people are aware of that . professor b : i understand , but is anybody doing anything about it ? grad c : um professor b : ok . it 's a political problem . we wo n't worry about it . grad c : no , but th the r eh i th i still think that there is enough information in there . for example , whether ok . so , th it will know about the twenty object types there are in the world . let 's assume there are only twenty object types in this world . and it will know if any of those have institutional meanings . so , in a sense , `` i `` used as institutions for some s in some sense or the other . which makes them enterable . right ? in a sense . professor b : yeah . anyway . so we may have to grad c : you know . professor b : this is with the whole thing , we may have to build another data stru conceptually , we know what should be done . when we see what people have done , it may turn out that the easiest thing to do is to build a a separate thing that that just pools i i like , i i it it may be , that , the the instance w that we have to build our own instance , uh , things , that , with their types , grad d : yeah , it 's right , we can just assume professor b : and then it goes off to the ontology once you have its type . so we build a little data structure and so what we would do in that case , is , in our instance gadget have our e v and if we d there is n't one we 'd get the type and then have the e v as for the type . so we 'd have our own little , uh , eva tree . and then , for other , uh , vectors that we need . grad d : yeah . right . professor b : so , we 'd have our own little things so that whenever we needed one , we 'd just use the ontology to get the type , grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : and then would hash or whatever we do to say , `` ah ! grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : if it 's that type of thing , and we want its eva vector , pppt - pppt ! { comment } it 's that . `` so , i i think we can handle that . and then but , the combination functions , and whether we can put those in java bayes , and all that sort of stuff , is , uh is the bigger deal . grad d : yeah . professor b : i think that 's where we have to get technically clever . grad a : we could just steal the classes in javabayes and then interface to them with our own code . grad d : um professor b : well , i me ye eh , yeah , the grad d : that requires understanding the classes in javabayes , i guess . @ @ . professor b : yeah , i mean , it 's , uh , e e e e e cute . i mean , you 've been around enough to i mean just ? grad a : well , it depends on professor b : i mean , there 's this huge package which which may or may not be consistent and you know . but , yeah , we could look at it . grad a : well , i was j ok . yeah . professor b : yeah . it 's b it it 's an inter sort of a kind of a it the thing is , it 's kind of an interpreter and i i it expects its data structures to be in a given form , and if you say , `` hey , we 're gon na make a different kind of data structure to stick in there `` grad a : well , no , but that just means there 's a protocol , right ? that you could professor b : it may or may not . i do n't know . that 's the question is `` to what extent does it allow us to put in these g functions ? `` and i do n't know . grad a : well , no , but i mean what i uh the so you could have four different bayes - nets that you 're running , and then run your own write your own function that would take the output of those four , and make your own `` g function `` , is what i was saying . professor b : yeah , that 's fine if it 's if it comes only at the end . but suppose you want it embedded ? grad a : well , then you 'd have to break all of your bayes - nets into smaller bayes - nets , with all the professor b : oh , that yeah , that 's a truly horrible way to do d it . one would hope grad a : yeah , but i 'm just grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , you bet . but , at that point you may say , `` hey , java bayes is n't the only package in town . let 's see if there 's another package that 's , eh , more civilized about this . `` now , srini is worth talking to on this , cuz he said that he actually did hack some combining functions into but he does n't remember at least when i talked to him , he did n't remember whether it was an e an easy thing , a natural thing , or whether he had to do some violence to it to make it work . uh . but he did do it . grad d : yeah . i do n't see why the , uh , combining f functions have to be directly hacked into i mean , they 're used to create tables so we can just make our own little functions that create tables in xml . professor b : well , i say that 's one way to do it , is is to just convert it int into a into a c p t that you zip it 's blown up , and is a it 's , uh it 's huge , but it does n't require any data fitting or complication . grad d : mm - hmm . yeah . i do n't think i mean , the fact that it blown u blows up is a huge issue in the sense that i mean , ok . so say it blows up , right ? so there 's , like , the you know , ten , f ten , fifteen , uh , things . it 's gon na be like , two to the that , which is n't so bad . professor b : i i understand . i 'm just saying tha that w that was wi that was my note . the little note i sent said that . it said , `` here 's the way you 'd take the logical f g function and turn it into a cpt . `` grad d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : i mean that the max - the evidence - combining function . so we could do that . and maybe that 's what we 'll do . but , um do n't know . so , i will , e e before next week , uh , @ @ { comment } p push push some more on on this stuff that dekai wu did , and try to understand it . uh , you 'll make a couple of more copies of the heckerman paper to give to people ? grad d : p sure . phd f : yeah , i i would like a copy , y y yeah . professor b : and , um i think grad c : ok . and i i 'll i 'll think s through this , uh , eh getting eva vectors dynamically out of ontologies one more time because i s i i i 'm not quite sure whether we all think of the same thing or not , here . professor b : well , you and i should talk about it . grad c : yeah , uh - huh . ok . professor b : alright , great ! and , robert , thank you for coming in under he he 's been sick , robert . grad a : i was thinking maybe we should just cough into the microphone and see if they ca n't th see if they can handle it . grad e : mm - hmm . sure . </s>
<s> what was the advantage of using noisy-ors ? </s> phd f : ok . right . grad d : right . so , i mean , we 'd like to take all these various cues , right ? phd f : like the army . grad d : so this one might be , say , uh grad e : new terminology ? phd f : yeah . grad d : well , let me pick a random one grad e : i have n't heard that before . grad d : and say , uh i do n't know , it could be , like this is n't the way it really is , but let me say that , suppose someone mentioned , uh , admission fees ah , it takes too long . try let me just say `` landmark `` . if the thing is a landmark , you know , um then there 's another thing that says if um if it 's closed or not , at the moment . alright , so you have nodes . right ? and the , uh , problem that we were having was that , you know , given n - nodes , there 's `` two to the n `` given n - nodes , and furthermore , the fact that there 's three things here , we need to specify `` three times `` , uh , `` two to the n `` probabilities . right ? that 's assuming these are all binary , which f they may not be . for example , they could be `` time of day `` , in which case we could , uh , say , you know , `` morning , afternoon , evening , night `` . so , this could be more so , it 's a lot , anyway . and , that 's a lot of probabilities to put here , which is kind of a pain . so noisy - ors are a way to , uh , sort of deal with this . um where should i put this ? so , the idea is that , um , let 's call these , uh , c - one , c - two , c - three , and c - four , and e , for cause and effect , i guess . the idea is to have these intermediate nodes . right . well , actually , the idea , first of all , is that each of these things has a quote - unquote distinguished state , which means that this is the state in which we do n't really know anything about it . so right ? so , for example , if we do n't really know if the thing is a landmark or not , or , i if that just does n't seem relevant , then that would be th sort of the disting - the distinguish state . it 's a really , you know , if there is something for the person talking about the admission fee , you know , if they did n't talk about it , that would be the distinguish state . grad c : s so , this is a fanciful way of saying `` default `` ? grad d : so yeah , yeah . that 's just what they the word they used in that paper . grad c : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what was suggested to incorporate the eva into the bayes-net ? </s> professor b : so that uh , if you know about it let 's say , a particular town hall that , it 's one that is a monument , then , that would be stored there . if you do n't , you look up the hierarchy , eh so , you you you may or so , then you 'd have this little vector of , um , you know , approach mode or eva mode . let 's ok , so we have the eva vector for for various kinds of landmarks . if you know it for a specific landmark you put it there . if you do n't , you just go up the hierarchy to the first place you find one . grad d : ok . so , is the idea to put it in the ontology ? professor b : absolutely . uh , or , link to or but but in any case i view it logically as being in the ontology . it 's part of what you know about a an object , is its eva vector . and , if yo as i say , if you know about a specific object , you put it there . grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : this is part of what dekai was doing . so , when we get to wu , the - e we 'll see w what he says about that . grad d : right . professor b : and , then if you if it is n't there , it 's higher , and if you do n't know anything except that it 's a b it 's it 's a building , then up at the highest thing , you have the pr what amounts to a prior . if you do n't know anything else about a building , uh , you just take whatever your crude approximation is up at that level , grad d : right . professor b : which might be equal , or whatever it is . grad d : yeah . professor b : so , that 's a very pretty relationship between these local vectors and the ontology . and it seems to me the obvious thing to do , unless we find a reason to do something different . grad d : yeah . professor b : does this make sense to you ? grad d : so professor b : bhask - ? grad d : yeah . so , we are but we we 're not doing the ontology , so we have to get to whoever is doing the u ultimately , professor b : indeed . so , that 's another thing we 're gon na need to do , is is , to , either grad d : we have to get them to professor b : we 're gon na need some way to either get a p tag in the ontology , or add fields , or { comment } { comment } some way to associate or , w it may be that all we can do is , um , some of our own hash tables that it th - the th you know , there 's always a way to do that . it 's a just a question of grad a : yeah , hash on object name to , you know , uh , the probabilities or whatever . professor b : i th yeah . e right . and , so , i uh grad c : but it 's , uh well , it strikes me as a what for if we get the mechanism , that will be sort of the wonderful part . and then , how to make it work is is the second part , in the sense that i mean , m the guy who was doing the ontology eh , eh , s ap apologized that i it will take him another through two to three days because they 're having really trouble getting the upper level straight , and right now . the reason is , given the craw bet uh , the the the projects that all carry their own taxonomy and , on all history , they 're really trying to build one top level ontology ft that covers all the eml projects , and that 's , uh , uh , sort of a tough cookie , a little bit tougher than they figured . i could have told them s so . professor b : right . yeah . grad c : uh . but , nevertheless , it 's going to be there by n by , uh , next monday and i will show you what 's what some examples from that for towers , and stuff . and , um , what i do n't think is ever going to be in the ontology , is sort of , you know , the likelihood of , eh , people entering r town halls , and looking at town halls , and approaching town halls , especially since we are b dealing with a case - based , not an instance - based ontology . so , there will be nothing on on that town hall , or on the berkeley town hall , or on the heidelberg town hall , it 'll just be information on town halls . professor b : well , they they they how ar what are they gon na do with instances ? grad c : but what professor b : i mean , you y grad c : well , that 's hhh . that 's that 's al different question . i mean , th the first , they had to make a design question , `` do we take ontologies that have instances ? or just one that does not , that just has the types ? `` and , so , since the d decision was on types , on a d simply type - based , we now have to hook it up to instances . i mean this is professor b : but what i what is smartkom gon na do about that ? grad c : one professor b : cuz , they have instances all the time . grad c : yeah , but the ontology is really not a smartkom thing , in in and of itself . that 's more something that i kicked loose in in eml . so it 's a completely eml thing . professor b : but uh uh smartkom 's gon na need an ontology . grad c : yes , u a w a lot of people are aware of that . professor b : i understand , but is anybody doing anything about it ? grad c : um professor b : ok . it 's a political problem . we wo n't worry about it . grad c : no , but th the r eh i th i still think that there is enough information in there . for example , whether ok . so , th it will know about the twenty object types there are in the world . let 's assume there are only twenty object types in this world . and it will know if any of those have institutional meanings . so , in a sense , `` i `` used as institutions for some s in some sense or the other . which makes them enterable . right ? in a sense . professor b : yeah . anyway . so we may have to grad c : you know . professor b : this is with the whole thing , we may have to build another data stru conceptually , we know what should be done . when we see what people have done , it may turn out that the easiest thing to do is to build a a separate thing that that just pools i i like , i i it it may be , that , the the instance w that we have to build our own instance , uh , things , that , with their types , grad d : yeah , it 's right , we can just assume professor b : and then it goes off to the ontology once you have its type . so we build a little data structure and so what we would do in that case , is , in our instance gadget have our e v and if we d there is n't one we 'd get the type and then have the e v as for the type . so we 'd have our own little , uh , eva tree . and then , for other , uh , vectors that we need . grad d : yeah . right . professor b : so , we 'd have our own little things so that whenever we needed one , we 'd just use the ontology to get the type , grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : and then would hash or whatever we do to say , `` ah ! grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : if it 's that type of thing , and we want its eva vector , pppt - pppt ! { comment } it 's that . `` so , i i think we can handle that . and then but , the combination functions , and whether we can put those in java bayes , and all that sort of stuff , is , uh is the bigger deal . grad d : yeah . professor b : i think that 's where we have to get technically clever . grad a : we could just steal the classes in javabayes and then interface to them with our own code . grad d : um professor b : well , i me ye eh , yeah , the grad d : that requires understanding the classes in javabayes , i guess . @ @ . professor b : yeah , i mean , it 's , uh , e e e e e cute . i mean , you 've been around enough to i mean just ? grad a : well , it depends on professor b : i mean , there 's this huge package which which may or may not be consistent and you know . but , yeah , we could look at it . grad a : well , i was j ok . yeah . professor b : yeah . it 's b it it 's an inter sort of a kind of a it the thing is , it 's kind of an interpreter and i i it expects its data structures to be in a given form , and if you say , `` hey , we 're gon na make a different kind of data structure to stick in there `` grad a : well , no , but that just means there 's a protocol , right ? that you could professor b : it may or may not . i do n't know . that 's the question is `` to what extent does it allow us to put in these g functions ? `` and i do n't know . grad a : well , no , but i mean what i uh the so you could have four different bayes - nets that you 're running , and then run your own write your own function that would take the output of those four , and make your own `` g function `` , is what i was saying . professor b : yeah , that 's fine if it 's if it comes only at the end . but suppose you want it embedded ? grad a : well , then you 'd have to break all of your bayes - nets into smaller bayes - nets , with all the professor b : oh , that yeah , that 's a truly horrible way to do d it . one would hope grad a : yeah , but i 'm just grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , you bet . but , at that point you may say , `` hey , java bayes is n't the only package in town . let 's see if there 's another package that 's , eh , more civilized about this . `` now , srini is worth talking to on this , </s>
<s> what was said about data collection ? </s> professor b : alright . anyway . so , uh , before we get started with the , uh , technical part , i just want to review what i think is happening with the our data collection . phd f : we are all switched on . professor b : so uh , probably after today , that should n't come up in this meeting . th - this this is s should be im it is n't there 's another thing going on of gathering data , and that 's pretty much independent of this . but , uh , i just want to make sure we 're all together on this . what we think is gon na happen is that , uh , in parallel starting about now we 're gon na get fey to , where you 're working with me and robert , draft a note that we 're gon na send out to various cogsci c and other classes saying , `` here 's an opportunity to be a subject . contact fey . `` and then there 'll be a certain number of um , hours during the week which she will be available and we 'll bring in people . uh , roughly how many , robert ? we d do we know ? grad c : um , fifty was our sort of our first professor b : ok . so , we 're looking for a total of fifty people , not necessarily by any means all students but we 'll s we 'll start with with that . in parallel with that , we 're gon na need to actually do the script . and , so , i guess there 's a plan to have a meeting friday afternoon uh , with uh , jane , and maybe liz and whoever , on actually getting the script worked out . but what i 'd like to do , if it 's o k , is to s to , as i say , start the recruiting in parallel and possibly start running subjects next week . the week after that 's spring break , and maybe we 'll look for them some subjects next door grad c : yeah . professor b : or i grad c : yeah . also , fey will not be here during spring break . professor b : oh , ok , then we wo n't do it . ok . so that 's easy . um . so , is is that make sense to everybody ? </s>
<s> what did the team say about interaction of data participants with their data ? </s> professor b : oh , yeah . the high school 's a great idea . grad c : so . but i i will just make a first draft of the , uh , note , the `` write - up `` note , send it to you and fey and then professor b : and why do n't you also copy jane on it ? grad c : and , um , are we have we concurred that , uh , these these forms are sufficient for us , and necessary ? professor b : uh , th i think they 're necessary . this the permission form . uh , there has to be one , grad c : nuh . n . professor b : and i think we 're just gon na use it as it is , and um grad c : n . you happy with that ? professor b : well , yeah . there 's one tricky part about , um , they have the right um i the last paragraph { comment } `` if you agree to participate you have the opportunity to have anything excised which you would prefer not to have included in the data set . `` ok ? now that , we had to be included for this other one which might have , uh , meetings , you know , about something . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : in this case , it does n't really make sense . um , so what i 'd like to do is also have our subjects sign a waiver saying `` i do n't want to see the final transcript `` . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : and if they do n't if they say `` no , i 'm not willing to sign that `` , then we 'll show them the final transcript . but , um . grad c : yep . makes sense . professor b : that , uh yeah , so we might actually , um s i jane may say that , `` you know , you ca n't do this `` , uh , `` on the same form , we need a separate form . `` but anyway . i 'd i 'd i 'd like to , e e um , add an a little thi eh a thing for them to initial , saying `` nah , do i do n't want to see the final transcript . `` grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : but other than that , that 's one 's been approved , this really is the same project , uh , rec you know . and so forth . so i think we just go with it . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good afternoon , everyone . welcome to the first virtual meeting of the children , young people and education committee . in accordance with standing order 34.19 , i determine that the public are excluded from the committee 's meeting , in order to protect public health . in accordance with standing order 34.21 , notice of this decision was included in the agenda for this meeting , which was published last friday . this meeting is , however , being broadcast live on senedd.tv , with all participants joining via video conference . a record of the proceedings will be published as usual . aside from the procedural adaptation relating to conducting proceedings remotely , all other standing order requirements for committees remain in place . the meeting is bilingual , and simultaneous translation from welsh to english is available . can i remind all participants that the microphones will be controlled centrally , so there 's no need to turn them on and off individually ? can i ask whether there are any declarations of interest , please ? no . okay . thank you . can i just then , again , note for the record that , if , for any reason , i drop out of the meeting , the committee has agreed that dawn bowden am will temporarily chair while i try to rejoin ? item 2 , then , this afternoon is an evidence session with the welsh government on the impact of the coronavirus epidemic on education in wales . i 'm very pleased to welcome kirsty williams am , minister for education , steve davies , director of the education directorate , and huw morris , who is group director , skills , higher education and lifelong learning . can i welcome you all and thank you for attending ? minister , i understand you 'd like to make a short opening statement . kirsty williams am : thank you very much , lynne . and indeed , if i could just begin by , once again , putting on the record my gratitude to everyone who is helping us get through this pandemic . there are a vast number of people who are keeping our school hubs open , looking after vulnerable children , and the children of key workers . because of them , and their efforts , those key workers are able to carry on their critical roles in responding to covid-19 . i am extremely proud of the way that members of the school community have gone above and beyond . they have kept their schools open out of hours , over the weekends , on bank holidays , and easter . and it is really heartening and humbling to see the way that they have responded to this crisis . and there are teachers , teaching assistants , and many others , who are helping our children and their parents to keep learning at home . i know that home schooling is n't easy , so i want to say also thank you to parents and carers for their efforts at this time . by keeping their children at home , they are helping us to keep people safe , and reducing pressure on our education system , and on our nhs . be in no doubt , we are facing many challenges because of this pandemic . my primary concern is , and always will be , the health and well-being of our children , of our young people , and of all the staff in our education settings . and i am very grateful to everyone who is supporting us in these endeavours . thank you very much—diolch yn fawr . and i 'm now happy to answer questions that members of the committee may have this afternoon . lynne neagle am : thank you very much , minister . i 'm sure that the committee echoes the heartfelt thanks you have just given then . the first questions we 've got this afternoon are from hefin david . hefin david am : good afternoon , minister . with regard to your five principles , which you 've set out today , regarding when schools will reopen , they 're very clear that they require a judgment from you . so could you outline when you think that schools might reopen ? kirsty williams am : thank you , hefin . i am very clear that schools will move to a new phase—because , already , schools are open in many settings ; we will move to a new phase when it is safe to do so and when i have advice from the chief medical officer and the chief scientific officer that it is safe to do so . i have made very clear in my statement that that is not imminent . i know that in some cases there has been speculation that a return to normal could be with us quite shortly . i 'm clear that a return to normal is not imminent , and therefore i 'm not in a position to give a date as to when we will see more schools opening up to more children . hefin david am : have you been given any indication at all by the chief medical officer as to when , in the longer term , it might be ? kirsty williams am : no , i have not been given a date . what i have done today is publish the principles that will aid me in , as you said , me making a decision . so , clearly , we will be relying on the advice of our medical and scientific advisers , but the principles are very clear . firstly , we will need to consider any decision to have more children returning to school in the context of the safety and the physical and the emotional well-being of children and young people and the staff . obviously , i ca n't make a decision regarding education in isolation . it will have to be taken in the context of the wider welsh government response to dealing with this pandemic . thirdly , it is absolutely crucial in making any decisions that we have clearly communicated that to parents and to staff , on the information that we have used to reach any decisions , to build confidence for parents and professionals , but also to give them time to plan . it will be impossible to move quickly to new ways of working . and we also have to look at—and it 's been paraphrased quite a lot today—if we are looking at certain groups of children accessing more education within a school setting , which groups they should be . and , finally , how do we operationalise that ? how do we make those settings as safe as they possibly can be , and how do we tackle some of the difficult challenges of everything from ensuring that we have adequate numbers of workforce available , to the very real questions about how you would do social distancing in the context of education , school transport issues , how you would avoid people gathering at the school gate , for instance ? so , there are very practical issues that would need to be considered and thought through very , very carefully before we could return , before what we could see is a move from where we are now to the next phase of education , and new approaches to what schooling may look like . but , again , i must be absolutely clear to you , members of the committee , and to people watching : it is not feasible , in this sense , that we would move from where we are now to what all of us would regard as normal education and what the operation of schools looked like before the start of this pandemic . hefin david am : so , what is clear from what you 've said is that it 's going to be phased return . i would assume that would be the most vulnerable—perhaps additional learning needs pupils would return first . just reading some of the things that you 've said today , can you answer that question ? and can i also ask : you said that guiding principle no . 3 will be having the confidence of parents , staff and students , based on evidence and information , so they can plan ahead . what will that evidence and information be , and how will you know that you 've got the confidence of parents to return ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , primarily , we will need to take a lead from our scientific and medical advisers . i want to also say that we are obviously working on a four-nation basis and keeping in very close contact with my counterparts in northern ireland , scotland and england . but we 're also looking beyond the united kingdom to approaches to education in the face of this pandemic . members are aware that we as a nation are a member of the atlantic rim collaboratory . so , recently i was able to talk to educationalists and ministers in iceland , other parts of europe , north america , south america and australia . so , we 're also looking at best international evidence in this regard . and , clearly , we will need to be very clear , as today is an attempt to be very clear with parents and our teaching professionals , and the unions that represent them , about the basis of that evidence . hefin david am : and could i just ask , with regard to the principles , do they then apply to further education and universities ? kirsty williams am : well , of course , when we are discussing these challenges , we are doing that with our colleagues in both the school sector but also our colleagues in the fe sector , and we 're in close contact with colleagues in higher education to share thinking on these matters . hefin david am : but these principles do n't apply in those circumstances ; these are principles for schools only . kirsty williams am : these principles are applying to both , and our work in this area is applying to both schools and fe colleges . clearly , universities , as independent institutions , we would n't be able to dictate to . but i want to be absolutely clear : we are working with representatives of the he sector to include them in this work . and i have received , not assurances , but from discussions that i 've had with universities wales and vice-chancellors , they are very keen to be kept apprised of these approaches , because they may well wish to implement something similar within their own institutions . lynne neagle am : okay . i 've got a couple of supplementaries now ; firstly , from suzy davies , and then i 'm going to go to siân gwenllian . suzy . no , we ca n't hear suzy . suzy ? no . i 'll go to siân , then , and then i 'll come back to suzy . siân . hefin david am : chair , i do n't think my microphone is muted . sian gwenllian am : okay . i 'll move on to my question to kirsty williams . now , it is clear that any decisions that need to be taken on reopening schools would have to be made in the context of all of the other issues that the welsh government has to take into account . and it is entirely clear that the approach of government towards testing has n't been sufficiently developed for us to even start to think about removing restrictions . so , would n't it be dangerous , if truth be told , to start to discuss reopening schools when we have n't had the necessary testing in place for the majority of the population ? and does n't it convey a mixed message that we 're starting to relax some of these restrictions when , in reality , the restrictions are still in place and still need to be in place robustly ? kirsty williams am : first of all , thank you very much , siân , for that important question . can i be absolutely clear , and i thought i had been pretty clear in answering hefin david , that we are not relaxing any of the restrictions with regard to education ? as i said to hefin , it is not imminent that we would see a further phase in the next stage of education here in wales . what i have done today is to provide clarity on the nature of the principles that i would use when coming to any discussion . it is the responsibility of me , as the minister , and indeed of the wider government , to begin to think about planning for the future . but i have been absolutely clear : we are not moving to an imminent change in how education is operating at the moment . and i 'm also very , very clear that should we be given the opportunity to see more children in our schools , i will only do that when it is safe for me to do so , when i 've been advised by the cmo that i am able to do that , and we have given sufficient time and planning to the sector to respond . it is not going to be easy , and we will need to give them , as a sector , time to be able to address . but if i have not been clear enough , let me say it again : we are not relaxing any issues around schools at present , nor is that imminent . lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy , i think we can try going to you again now . suzy davies am : thank you . minister , in your consideration of introducing a phased return to school , in due course , have you taken into consideration how things like school absences are going to be managed ? because , regardless of the amount of good work you do on messaging , there will still be some families that do n't realise that going back to school is for their particular family . will there be a relaxation of , effectively , what we would call truancy rules ? or is that something that schools will be getting guidance on much up-front ? kirsty williams am : thank you , suzy . as i said in my statement earlier today , returning to school will not be a return to normal , and in recognition of this , i 've already made it clear that i will seek , in all opportunities , to reduce the burdens on school . that includes various data collection , the suspension of performance measures and removing the requirement to undertake literacy and numeracy testing , and , clearly , school attendance will want to be an important factor of that . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . i 'm keen to go on now to talk about the current situation as being faced by our children and young people in schools with some questions from siân gwenllian . siân . sian gwenllian am : since yesterday , the welsh government has started publishing data on the number of schools that are open , the number of children attending those schools , and the number of staff involved , and they have been making this information available as per capita of the population . on average , i think it 's 1 per cent of the children of wales that actually attend these locations , and some 5 per cent of the staff . so , can you analyse those figures a little further ? can you tell us how many children , according to this data , are children of key workers , and how many are vulnerable children ? kirsty williams am : thank you very much , siân . as you quite rightly say , on average , we have 518 school hubs open each day , with up to 4,200 children attending . we have seen an increase in the number of attendances since the start of what would have been the traditional summer term . we have approximately 5.6 per cent of the teaching population working in those hubs , and at present , 85 per cent of the children who are attending are the children of key workers , the remainder being vulnerable children . so , we are now averaging 600 vulnerable children per day . these are small numbers , but we have seen an increase in those numbers since the start of what would have been the traditional summer term . sian gwenllian am : okay . i 'm sure we 'll return to that point a little later on . how much confidence do you therefore have that the arrangements are effective in terms of the safety of staff and children at these locations ? kirsty williams am : thank you once again for that . the smooth operation of the hubs , with regard to health and safety , is , of course , of paramount importance . what we have seen since schools closed for traditional statutory purposes and moving to their repurposed function—we have seen a change of pattern over time . so , following my announcement on , i believe , 18 march , the week after , we saw a large number of settings open and operating . as local authorities have been able to understand the demand for those places—from critical workers and vulnerable children—we have seen more local authorities move to a hub model , and we have been able to publish guidance to local authorities on how issues around safe working in those hubs should be followed , and we 've been able to give guidance in that regard . local authorities are asked by us to report any incidents where they are concerned about operation issues on the ground . sian gwenllian am : as i mentioned earlier , testing is crucially important in dealing with this crisis . so , how many school staff have been tested for covid because they may have experienced symptoms and so on ? and how many of those have tested positive ? kirsty williams am : my understanding from public health wales is that 15 teachers have been tested for covid-19 , and i believe two of those results have come back as positive . can i make it absolutely clear , the week before last , welsh government issued new guidance around who should be tested ? i want to make it absolutely clear to those professionals working in our hubs , if they or a member of their family are exhibiting any of the symptoms , however mild , of covid-19 , they can and they should be tested . sian gwenllian am : okay . and the final question from me on this : how important is testing going to be in this next phase , as you start to think about relaxing restrictions ? kirsty williams am : obviously , the ability to be able to test , to trace and to quarantine will be critical to the next phase and will be a very , very important and significant building block in all aspects of the government 's work to respond to this pandemic . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you , minister , and thank you , siân . we 've got some questions now on the impact on particular groups of children , from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . just following on from your answer to siân gwenllian earlier about the number of vulnerable children in school , what 's being done specifically to facilitate more of those children coming into a school setting or hub at the moment ? i 'm thinking about the 600 you 've talked about , and i know , in one of my local authority areas of merthyr , which is a very small authority , we 're talking about the number of children identified as vulnerable running into thousands , not hundreds , and that 's just in one authority . so , this is a particularly difficult issue to address , i appreciate , but how are we going to get more of these children into the hubs ? kirsty williams am : okay , dawn . the first thing to say is that the issue of vulnerable children attending settings is one that is a challenge to not just wales , but also to my colleagues in northern ireland , scotland and england . i 'm pleased to say that we are working across government departments—myself , obviously , and colleagues in education—with colleagues in social services to have a cross-government approach to these issues . i think the first thing to say is that these are complex messages , because the overriding public health message from our government has been to stay at home and children should be kept at home as much as possible , and to make sure that our hubs run smoothly , safely and effectively , we do need to limit the number of children who are attending those hubs . so , firstly , the fact that numbers are small is in some ways a success of our public health messages , because parents have been heeding those messages , but , of course , all of us will have concerns for some children who remain at home . so , i 'm pleased to say that we have seen a doubling in the last week of the number of children . so , although numbers are small , they have doubled over the course of the last week . we 're working with local authorities and they have assured us that children and young people with a social worker have been risk assessed on a multi-agency basis and are receiving support in a number of ways , and that includes having conversations about some of those children attending the hubs . they 're also looking to support in other ways . of course , some of our children who would be classed as vulnerable—and our definition of 'vulnerable ' is one that is shared between the systems in england and wales—could be children with a statement of special educational needs . for some of those children who , perhaps , have very intense health needs , actually , staying at home is the appropriate thing for that child and that family to do , and we 're looking to support families , and local authorities and local education systems are looking to support families , in a number of ways . we also know that just because you do n't have a social worker or a statement of special educational needs does not mean that a child may not be vulnerable , and schools are very aware of the needs of those children and have been carrying out regular telephone check-ins where they can—if the age of the child is appropriate—just to keep in touch with those families and those individual children . but we will continue to work across government to encourage , where it is appropriate , children to attend settings , and , if it is not appropriate for children to be in a setting , that there is contact with those children and young people to ensure that they remain , and their families remain , supported . dawn bowden am : thank you , minister . it 's encouraging to hear you talk about the ongoing safeguarding of children that are at home and i assume , within that , appropriate referral mechanisms are still in place if teachers or anybody has any particular concern about a child . similarly , with special educational needs , whereas some of those children benefit clearly from a one-to-one provision in a school , and they may not respond as well to remote working , or remote contact , with an sen advisor , are you considering in any way any relaxation of the lockdown rule in particular for those children in terms of them being able to access the support that they need for their particular educational needs ? kirsty williams am : well , first of all , dawn , you 're absolutely right : my expectation is that schools should remain in contact with children and continue to identify vulnerable children , and schools should continue to refer children to children 's services if they have any concerns , and that would also , of course , be the case for youth workers who may be keeping in contact with children . so , there is a professional expectation on all those that are working with our children and young people that , despite the circumstances they find themselves in , they should continue to report and refer cases if they see anything or hear or are told anything that makes them concerned about a child 's welfare and safety . with regard to children with additional learning needs , i am aware that that can present a number of challenges to families and children , and perhaps steve davies could give some further details . we have been keen to work with local authorities to ensure specialist provision , where that is appropriate—so , if i could give you an example of my own local authority in powys , they have two specialist centres available for children with more profound additional learning needs , and those centres are available—recognising , however , that , even with the provision of specialist hubs , it can be a challenge for some children with additional learning needs to find themselves outside of a routine . hubs are often staffed on a rota basis and therefore children could be faced with staff that they are unfamiliar with . so , even when local authorities—and the vast , vast majority of them do—have specialist services in place , sometimes that might not be the best thing for a child 's health and well-being . but perhaps steve can give us further details of the conversations that have been taking place with directors of education to ensure that children with additional learning needs have access to the hubs and specialist support . steve . steve davies : yes , myself and colleague albert heaney—colleague-director—have been in regular touch with directors of education and directors of social services to make sure that these children and young people 's needs are catered for . we are very aware of all of the special schools—profound and multiple learning difficulties , ebd schools and pupil referral units—that have been kept open in their own way , but also , in some cases , as hubs , to deliver those services for those children 's needs , and we 're pleased that the directors and the local authorities have responded so constructively . so , we have the details of every school that 's open , the pupils who are attending , and we are clear that the risk assessments that the minister referred to for children with special needs , as well as wider vulnerable groups—they are having risk assessments to make sure that , where there is a need identified for a pupil that is not currently attending a hub , then the local authority can be working with that child and with the parents . lynne neagle am : thank you , steve . dawn . dawn bowden am : thank you . just two more questions . one is around emotional and mental health difficulties being experienced by children and young people at the moment . now , there was a very welcome announcement of £1.25 million pounds for school counselling . how is that , in practical terms , being applied if those children are not actually in school ? kirsty williams am : you 're right , dawn : we have to consider how we can support children not only in their learning during this time , but also to recognise the very real impact that the pandemic will have on all of our mental health and well-being—recognising , of course , it is absolutely natural for all of us , including children and young people , to have fears and anxieties at this time . that 's a natural reaction to the situation that we find ourselves in . but , of course , there are issues around those children that would have currently been receiving school counselling , and also being able to be in a position to respond to a potential growth in the number of children that are receiving support . so , the additional money will be made available to local authorities to be able to increase and ramp up services to support children and families . in the immediacy , of course , that will have to be done in different ways than perhaps we 've traditionally delivered services in the past , because of social distancing and lockdown rules , but we want to get some of these systems in place now , rather than waiting for everything to go back to normal . we need to be able to plan to offer services in the here and now , but also be able to plan for what potentially could be an increase in the demand of those services . so , we 've been in close touch with local authorities , asking them what they believe that they will need and how they can use additional financial resources , and we 've been very pleased to be able to secure that for them . dawn bowden am : so , that would include things like telephone and video support as well , i guess , then . kirsty williams am : yes , absolutely . so , that would include remote counselling as in a fashion that we 're doing now , but also , as and when some of the restrictions are perhaps removed , looking at an enhanced family therapy , or a therapy approach . so , when we talk about counselling , i think it 's important to recognise that there will be some flexibility around this money and it does not necessarily mean that local authorities have to use it on a one-to-one basis . that might not be appropriate for some children , especially our younger children and their families , and they can use that money to provide counselling or therapy—in the widest possible terms—that is the best method to support individual children and their families . but , clearly , we 're having to do that in the confines of lockdown and social distancing at the moment . some of that money can also be used to support the professional learning and the professional development of counsellors , because , of course , they may be being asked to work in a different way and we need to make sure that they have the appropriate skills and abilities to do that . dawn bowden am : thank you . thank you , minister . lynne neagle am : dawn , before you ask your final question , i 've got a couple of supplementaries—firstly from suzy , and then from hefin . suzy davies am : oh , thank you . my question goes back to the comment you made earlier , minister , about the number of children doubling—sorry , vulnerable children doubling—after the easter break , if we can call it that . so , what i 'm after is a sense of churn in these establishments . so , was that figure a recovery of a number of children that had been there before the easter break , and are the people who are there still the same people as were there right at the beginning of the crisis and the lockdown ? kirsty williams am : suzy , what i believe that we 're seeing in our schools is new pupils coming into school . so , there has been , i know , a real effort on behalf of educationalists and social services staff to really reach out to families and to make sure that they 're aware of the support that is available out there for them and their children , and to be able to give them the confidence that there are—that the hubs are available for them . so , we have seen an increase in children . those numbers are still small and , i believe , potentially , there is an opportunity to build on that and to have further conversations with families about the support that is available for vulnerable children , whether that— . that vulnerability , of course , can cover a whole range of issues . as i said when we last met , this is a constantly evolving situation . the initial response—local authorities and schools worked incredibly fast and incredibly quickly to set up these hubs . we 've seen an evolution in the weeks since that time and i am sure that we will continue to see some evolution in approaches . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . hefin , you had a supplementary—briefly , please . hefin david am : yes , very quickly . i 've been listening to the answers with regard to vulnerable children , following on from that answer . i 'm at home with a vulnerable child—a child who has got additional learning needs . she 's got autism ; she 's four . i imagine there are many , many parents in exactly the same position—i 've heard from them . i have n't heard anything from the school or from the local authority . should i have heard something or should i be proactive in pursuing it ? kirsty williams am : i do n't want to comment on personal cases— hefin david am : but there are many others in this position . kirsty williams am : —but what i would say is that if parents have concerns and want to have a conversation about what support is available to them and their children , they should contact their local education authority to have a conversation as to what support is available . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . dawn , final question , please . dawn bowden am : yes , my last question is really about the potential for the attainment gap between disadvantaged pupils and their more affluent peers . is that a concern for you ? i 'm thinking particularly in relation to those less affluent families in having access to technology and so on . what kind of concerns do you have about that and what are we looking to do to try to ensure that that does n't actually play out ? kirsty williams am : thank you , dawn . all of the statistics would tell us that learning loss and the gap , potentially , will affect those more vulnerable children the most . clearly , we will want to consider that as we think about what the new normal for education may look like , or as we develop into future phases . depending on where that child is in their educational journey , of course , the needs and the potential for loss are slightly different . so , for instance , when we 're thinking about very young children , we could be thinking about a lack of social interaction and the development of oracy skills . of course , that , potentially , then will have a knock-on to their ability to learn to read and then to write , for instance . for other children who are , perhaps , older and heading towards formal examinations , the challenge when they return to school will be a slightly different one . i 'm not sure , chair , whether you want me to give some further details about our continuity-of-learning plan and how we are looking to address digital disadvantage now , or whether there are questions later . lynne neagle am : well , i 've got a question on that coming up , so , if it 's okay , dawn , we 'll go on to that now . before we do that , i was just going to ask how the welsh government is paying due regard to the united nations convention on the rights of the child and , obviously , the right children and young people have to an education . i was going to ask you about the risk of inequality due to varying access to digital resources , which are so important in ensuring continuity of learning . kirsty williams am : you 're absolutely correct , chair . officials are very aware of our responsibilities towards children 's rights in this regard and we are doing whatever we can to ensure that children have an equal opportunity and have equal access to learning at this time . we are fortunate in the regard that , because of previous decisions and investments , we have a strong base on which to build because we have our hwb digital learning platform and because we have invested heavily in the national purchasing of microsoft office and google for education tools , which are available to all families . we have become the first , i think—we 're certainly the first in the uk , and i 'm not sure whether we 're the first across the world , but i think we probably are—to deploy , for instance , adobe spark nationally . but , obviously , access to hardware and connectivity is crucial at this time . officials are working with local authorities to ensure that all children have access to both the hardware and the connectivity they need to be able to participate in digital learning at this particular time . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . just a final question from me : how exactly are we communicating to parents what the expectations are of them in terms of delivering this education at home now ? are there , for example , guidelines on recommended hours of home learning per day of the week or volume of work to be completed ? how are we ensuring that parents know how best to lead their children through this at the moment ? kirsty williams am : firstly , can i recognise what a challenge this is ? we 've just heard from hefin who is carrying on his day job as the assembly member , but is obviously trying to do that as well as care for and provide learning for his children , and i know , chair , that you 're doing the same , and i 'm certainly trying to do the same , and it 's a real challenge , it 's not easy . as part of our 'stay safe . stay learning ' policy statement , advice is available to parents and carers on the hwb platform as to what they best can do to support their children . i think the really important message that i 've been trying to give to parents is not to be too hard on ourselves . i know that everybody is doing the best that they can in really challenging circumstances . and if they have concerns , they should be in contact with their child 's school , but we do have specific advice and guidance to parents on the hwb platform . lynne neagle am : thank you . we 're going to move on now to some questions on examinations from janet finch-saunders . janet , we ca n't hear you . i tell you what , we'll— . janet , do you want to try again ? no . okay , we 'll go on then to questions on higher education and post 16 , and we 'll come back to examinations , if that 's okay . suzy . suzy davies am : yes , thank you , chair . before we leave continuity of learning , do you mind if i just ask this one question ? lynne neagle am : no , that 's fine . yes , go on . suzy davies am : your comment , minister , on working with local authorities to make sure that individuals have hardware : can you just give us a bit of detail on what working with local authorities actually means ? in the process of that , is there any data gathering going on for those pupils who are being educated at home and the levels at which they 're engaging ? you know , are they sticking with it , or how many are dropping out ? because i think the two of those perhaps go together . kirsty williams am : yes , absolutely . so , i 'm hoping to make an announcement tomorrow , if not later on this week , about some specific details around support for hardware and connectivity . we 're working closely with local authorities to understand just that : to understand from the schools the number of schools that—and a number of them have already done this—have been lending chromebooks , ipads and laptops to children , and also identifying children who are not perhaps engaging in the activities that have been made available . and we 'll be doing two things to support local authorities . the first is to use the stock of equipment that they already have to be able to provide hardware to students . so , we have purchased on a national basis software that , when applied to an old piece of kit , essentially turns it into an out-of-the-box chromebook . because , as you can imagine , just like other things during a pandemic , there has been a rush to buy new stuff on the market and then there is a scramble and nobody can get what they need . so , we 're utilisng kit that is already available in schools and local authorities , and we will look to backfill that to schools at a later point out of our edtech investment programme . the other issue is , once a child has a chromebook or a laptop or a device , issues around connectivity . so , we 're also looking to purchase on a national level and distribute mi-fi connectivity , so students will be able to have access to wi-fi where they do n't have that already . that 's why we need to work closely with local authorities and schools to identify the level of that need and to make sure the stuff gets to the right children . one of the ways in which we are able to do that is to look at engagement in education . so , if a child has n't been engaging , is that because they just do n't want to and they 're voting with their feet—but clearly teachers need to have a conversation about that—or is that because the child simply does not have the ability to do that , and therefore we need to get that stuff out to those children ? so , rather than just simply leaving it to local authorities to scramble around in a very crowded market to get the stuff that they will need , we 're trying to do that on a national basis and deploy that to local authorities . so , our officials have been having conversations with each of our local authorities to ascertain what 's already happened , and there is very good practice out there—schools have been proactive—but where there are gaps , what can we do as a national government to be able to assist them to do that ? we are repurposing some of the resources that we had previously identified for our edtech investment , using those resources to fill this particular gap . suzy davies am : thank you . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . we 're going to go back to janet now . i believe we 've got sound again , so janet can ask her questions on examinations . janet . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . i thought it was something at this end ; i 'm glad to hear it was n't . when will vocational learners know what is happening with their assessments , and how will those who have no choice but to wait for a vocational assessment be supported ? kirsty williams am : okay . that 's a very good question , janet , because i know that there has been some concern and anxiety around vocational qualification students and how quickly we 've been able to provide certainty for them . you 'll be aware that qualifications wales have been able , in the last week , to be able to give that greater clarity . so , they have announced that learners due to complete their essential skills wales qualifications will receive results . they have also published their approach to how health and social care qualifications will be managed , because , of course , those are part of the first set of reformed quals that we have done on a wales basis . you are right , there are a group of students who fall into the category where there are technical qualifications that require a certificate of competency to be industry ready—i hope i 've explained that correctly—and , therefore , we are working to understand how we can accommodate those students in these particular circumstances . but , at this stage , there may be some delay for that element of their qualification being delayed to a further date . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . lynne neagle am : janet . janet finch-saunders am : yes . what are your expectations for how a-level and gcse qualifications will be awarded this summer , following the ministerial direction that you have issued to qualifications wales ? for example , how is an appropriate balance being taken between recognising the progress of pupils in their coursework , mock examinations , and other work to date , and also , the potential of pupils who might have performed particularly well in their examinations this summer ? kirsty williams am : well , janet , i understand—and today is a day where some students would have been undertaking practical examinations—i understand how devastating it has been to both students and teachers alike for the decision i had to take to cancel this summer 's exam series . but i 'm absolutely clear that was the only decision that could have been reached . qualifications wales has made it very clear—and for people who would like more information , i would urge them to look at qualifications wales 's website—how they will go about giving , allocating , and awarding a grade to our a-level and gcse students . firstly , teachers will be asked to submit a grade they believe that student would have obtained , should they have taken an exam . and , of course , teachers will have a range of data and their own professional judgment that they will use in awarding that grade . teachers will also be asked to rank students in order . once that information has been submitted to qualifications wales , there will be a process by which that data will be moderated ; moderated from centre to centre and across the nation , thus giving us the chance to award a student a fair grade whilst being , and remaining , true to ensuring that we have a robust qualifications system , and allowing those students who find themselves at a critical stage of their education , where they are looking to move on to the next stages—that they will have the grades that will allow them to make decisions about their future . janet finch-saunders am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : thank you , janet . we 're going to go on now , then , to the questions on higher and further education from suzy davies . suzy . suzy davies am : thank you , chair . i suppose my first question just goes back to the 16-year-olds at the moment and those who are looking forward to either going to college , the older ones going to university , there 'll be apprenticeships , all kinds of future pathways for post 16 . what 's happening at school level , or even at college level , to get those students ready for the next steps , because , obviously , they 're not in their usual environments and getting their usual programme of teaching ? kirsty williams am : no , that 's quite right , suzy , and i should have said in answer to janet 's question , as well—i 'm sure people already know , but just to get the point across—that a-level results day and gcse day will run as normal across not just wales , but england , wales and northern ireland , which is really important . you 're right , suzy—for those people that are coming to the end of one part of their education this is a particularly challenging time . you 'll be aware that , last week , on hwb , we were able to launch a programme for year 13 students to help them get ready for university . i 'm very grateful to the he sector in wales , who 've worked really hard with us on that . so , for instance , if you were a year 13 student or even a year 12 student that was thinking about or interested in areas around social policy , you could have tuned into a social policy lecturer at swansea university . if you go to the hwb website , you will be able to see that there are subject listings , everything from animal science through to law , politics , history and science , with links through to higher education and further education courses that students can avail themselves of . there 's also a section on preparation for essential study skills , whether that is report writing or academic writing . so , there is a range of activities and courses available for year 13 , so that children—'children ' ; they 're all children to me—young people can get themselves— . they do n't have to stop learning , and they can get themselves ready for the next stage of their education . again , for those children , perhaps , who are coming to the end of their gcses , there is a range of information , either within their own schools or within their local colleges about things that can keep them learning . so , for instance , i 'm aware of one school where you can go onto the website and there are recommendations of , for instance , what you could be reading over the summer if you 're interested in doing this particular a-level in september . i know that there are also moves in schools and in colleges to be able to make sure that those children do n't miss out on really important careers advice at this time , as well , and information , so they can make informed decisions . i know that people are working hard to link up children to advice services that are available so that they can make those really important future decisions with the advice of either a teacher or other professional so that they 've got those options . so , there is material out there and it 's growing all the time . this week , we were able to launch our virtual seren network . you 'll be aware that , for the last couple of years , we 've been able to send welsh children to the yale global summer school . clearly , that ca n't happen this year . that 's devastating for those year 12s who had worked so hard and had won a place on that programme . they will now be able to attend the yale global scholars programme virtually and remotely , because yale have moved that programme online . so , we 're developing materials and resources all of the time . suzy davies am : thank you for that answer . before i move on to my next question , can you give me some sort of sense of how that hwb domain is being populated ? where is all this information being sourced from ? presumably , they 'll be working with partners , but what does that look like ? kirsty williams am : oh , my goodness . yes , absolutely— suzy davies am : [ inaudible . ] kirsty williams am : yes , we 're working very hard . so , everything from our work with the bbc , for instance , and bbc bitesize through to our fe colleges and our he institutions , as well as other organisations in the third sector who are looking to provide those opportunities . can i just say that , last week , we were looking at , every day , in the region of well over 150,000 logins a day into hwb ? suzy davies am : well , that 's great . so there 's proactive populating of hwb . that 's what i was after . that 's great . just going back to some of janet 's questions and the assessed grades , i want to talk to you about the unconditional offers and where we are with that at the moment for entry to universities , because there 's going to be a scramble now of the available students for further education , but primarily higher education institutions , across the uk . is the moratorium on unconditional offers still standing ? are there conversations going on to extend that moratorium ? otherwise , this scramble is going to potentially negatively affect our universities quite considerably . kirsty williams am : yes , you 'll be aware that a moratorium does exist . it exists in this current context to 1 may . we continue to keep in close touch with colleagues in northern ireland , scotland and in the westminster government around these issues . officials are also in touch with ucas , and in the last couple of days i 've had at least three meetings with representatives of the welsh higher education sector to discuss these matters . suzy davies am : i just want to ask you now about students and their maintenance loan grants . i think they 're getting , around now , the money going into their bank account that they would normally have expected at this time of year . that 's right , yes ? kirsty williams am : that 's correct , yes . suzy davies am : what 's happening to those students who would normally be living in digs somewhere but are now living at home ? are they likely to be asked to reimburse part of the cost , because obviously it 's not as expensive to live at home as away , and what 's likely to be happening with the maintenance loans over the summer holiday period , potentially ? because we 've had a period now where students ca n't top up their maintenance loans by going out and working on weekends or working in the evenings , or whatever , so their income has been impacted . just in the round , what kind of conversations are happening around that ? again , it 's probably a four-nation approach , i would imagine . kirsty williams am : thank you , suzy . you are correct to say that our student support regime does allow for a lower payment to be made to those students that stay at home during their studies , but i want to reassure students that there will be no change to their student support payments just because they have left their universities and have decided to go home . there should be no change . also , we are continuing , it should be important to say , to pay education maintenance allowance at this time for our fe students that are eligible for that , even though , obviously , for ema there is an attendance requirement , but clearly that is not appropriate to enforce at the moment . you are correct—this is a worrying time for many students in higher education , especially for those who are looking to graduate at this time and are going out into an economy that has been tremendously badly hit by the pandemic . at this time , we continue to have conversations with nus wales about what can be done within a welsh context , but , as you quite rightly say , also within a uk context , to support students who may have been affected . we are continuing—on our webpage we have a frequently asked questions section that advises students in the first instance , especially when it comes , for instance , to the cost of accommodation—to have those discussions , and i 'm very grateful that , in some cases , some of our institutions have been able to waive or partially waive accommodation fees where students have vacated their accommodation and have returned to their usual home address . but we will continue to have dialogue with nus wales and with our counterparts across the country to look to see what more we can do to support students at this time . suzy davies am : thank you for that answer , and , yes , i was pleased to see that announcement through the nus as well , so well done to those accommodation providers who have a heart . i think we 'll all have seen the universities uk document that explains some of the difficulties that they 're going to be running into if this proceeds much further . my understanding is that the main emphasis at the moment is to try and get all the universities across the uk through this initial period of difficulty by releasing as much money as possible . i can see that your figure to the higher education funding council for wales was a little bit down on last year 's letter—not that there 's been a remit letter yet , but an indication . are you releasing that money earlier so that they can use it more swiftly , or does that not matter ? lynne neagle am : before you come in , minister , that is going to have to be the last question , just to make you aware of that , because we are coming up to the end of our time . suzy davies am : okay . that 's fine . kirsty williams am : of course , suzy , we are working closely with universities wales and have a lot of sympathy for the proposals that have come forward from universities uk , which wales 's universities have been a part of forming . stability in the first instance is really important to us , which is why we 've been able to give an indication to hefcw about resources that are available , and we 've been very clear to hefcw that we want to be as flexible as possible in how they use those resources to support institutions . that potentially would mean reprofiling the way in which money gets out to institutions , but clearly we will need to have an ongoing discussion about how we respond to the immediacy of the issues facing he , how we can get stability for the next academic year , and how we then can support the sector through what is a really challenging time for them . we will do that in a welsh context and we will continue to do that also in a uk context , because you will have seen the scale of some of the figures that have been talked about in terms of the impact on the he sector at this time . clearly , a four-nation approach to that will be crucial . suzy davies am : thank you . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . well , we have come to the end of our time , and , as to anything that we did n't ask , we will have to write to the minister . can i just thank the minister and her officials for your attendance today ? we know how busy you are dealing with the pandemic and we very much welcome this opportunity to have this discussion with you . so , thank you , minister and officials for your time . as usual , you will be sent a transcript to check for accuracy following the meeting . diolch yn fawr . kirsty williams am : diolch yn fawr , chair . </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the school reopening date ? </s> hefin david am : good afternoon , minister . with regard to your five principles , which you 've set out today , regarding when schools will reopen , they 're very clear that they require a judgment from you . so could you outline when you think that schools might reopen ? kirsty williams am : thank you , hefin . i am very clear that schools will move to a new phase—because , already , schools are open in many settings ; we will move to a new phase when it is safe to do so and when i have advice from the chief medical officer and the chief scientific officer that it is safe to do so . i have made very clear in my statement that that is not imminent . i know that in some cases there has been speculation that a return to normal could be with us quite shortly . i 'm clear that a return to normal is not imminent , and therefore i 'm not in a position to give a date as to when we will see more schools opening up to more children . hefin david am : have you been given any indication at all by the chief medical officer as to when , in the longer term , it might be ? </s>
<s> what was included in kirsty williams am 's explanation about five principles ? </s>  </s>
<s> what did the meeting talk about the current education situation ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . i 'm keen to go on now to talk about the current situation as being faced by our children and young people in schools with some questions from siân gwenllian . siân . sian gwenllian am : since yesterday , the welsh government has started publishing data on the number of schools that are open , the number of children attending those schools , and the number of staff involved , and they have been making this information available as per capita of the population . on average , i think it 's 1 per cent of the children of wales that actually attend these locations , and some 5 per cent of the staff . so , can you analyse those figures a little further ? can you tell us how many children , according to this data , are children of key workers , and how many are vulnerable children ? </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams am say about the education challenges as being faced by schools and the related methods to assure safety ? </s> kirsty williams am : thank you once again for that . the smooth operation of the hubs , with regard to health and safety , is , of course , of paramount importance . what we have seen since schools closed for traditional statutory purposes and moving to their repurposed function—we have seen a change of pattern over time . so , following my announcement on , i believe , 18 march , the week after , we saw a large number of settings open and operating . as local authorities have been able to understand the demand for those places—from critical workers and vulnerable children—we have seen more local authorities move to a hub model , and we have been able to publish guidance to local authorities on how issues around safe working in those hubs should be followed , and we 've been able to give guidance in that regard . local authorities are asked by us to report any incidents where they are concerned about operation issues on the ground . sian gwenllian am : as i mentioned earlier , testing is crucially important in dealing with this crisis . so , how many school staff have been tested for covid because they may have experienced symptoms and so on ? and how many of those have tested positive ? kirsty williams am : my understanding from public health wales is that 15 teachers have been tested for covid-19 , and i believe two of those results have come back as positive . can i make it absolutely clear , the week before last , welsh government issued new guidance around who should be tested ? i want to make it absolutely clear to those professionals working in our hubs , if they or a member of their family are exhibiting any of the symptoms , however mild , of covid-19 , they can and they should be tested . sian gwenllian am : okay . and the final question from me on this : how important is testing going to be in this next phase , as you start to think about relaxing restrictions ? </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the impact on particular children with intense need ? </s> dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . just following on from your answer to siân gwenllian earlier about the number of vulnerable children in school , what 's being done specifically to facilitate more of those children coming into a school setting or hub at the moment ? i 'm thinking about the 600 you 've talked about , and i know , in one of my local authority areas of merthyr , which is a very small authority , we 're talking about the number of children identified as vulnerable running into thousands , not hundreds , and that 's just in one authority . so , this is a particularly difficult issue to address , i appreciate , but how are we going to get more of these children into the hubs ? kirsty williams am : okay , dawn . the first thing to say is that the issue of vulnerable children attending settings is one that is a challenge to not just wales , but also to my colleagues in northern ireland , scotland and england . i 'm pleased to say that we are working across government departments—myself , obviously , and colleagues in education—with colleagues in social services to have a cross-government approach to these issues . i think the first thing to say is that these are complex messages , because the overriding public health message from our government has been to stay at home and children should be kept at home as much as possible , and to make sure that our hubs run smoothly , safely and effectively , we do need to limit the number of children who are attending those hubs . so , firstly , the fact that numbers are small is in some ways a success of our public health messages , because parents have been heeding those messages , but , of course , all of us will have concerns for some children who remain at home . so , i 'm pleased to say that we have seen a doubling in the last week of the number of children . so , although numbers are small , they have doubled over the course of the last week . we 're working with local authorities and they have assured us that children and young people with a social worker have been risk assessed on a multi-agency basis and are receiving support in a number of ways , and that includes having conversations about some of those children attending the hubs . they 're also looking to support in other ways . of course , some of our children who would be classed as vulnerable—and our definition of 'vulnerable ' is one that is shared between the systems in england and wales—could be children with a statement of special educational needs . for some of those children who , perhaps , have very intense health needs , actually , staying at home is the appropriate thing for that child and that family to do , and we 're looking to support families , and local authorities and local education systems are looking to support families , in a number of ways . we also know that just because you do n't have a social worker or a statement of special educational needs does not mean that a child may not be vulnerable , and schools are very aware of the needs of those children and have been carrying out regular telephone check-ins where they can—if the age of the child is appropriate—just to keep in touch with those families and those individual children . but we will continue to work across government to encourage , where it is appropriate , children to attend settings , and , if it is not appropriate for children to be in a setting , that there is contact with those children and young people to ensure that they remain , and their families remain , supported . dawn bowden am : thank you , minister . it 's encouraging to hear you talk about the ongoing safeguarding of children that are at home and i assume , within that , appropriate referral mechanisms are still in place if teachers or anybody has any particular concern about a child . similarly , with special educational needs , whereas some of those children benefit clearly from a one-to-one provision in a school , and they may not respond as well to remote working , or remote contact , with an sen advisor , are you considering in any way any relaxation of the lockdown rule in particular for those children in terms of them being able to access the support that they need for their particular educational needs ? kirsty williams am : well , first of all , dawn , you 're absolutely right : my expectation is that schools should remain in contact with children and continue to identify vulnerable children , and schools should continue to refer children to children 's services if they have any concerns , and that would also , of course , be the case for youth workers who may be keeping in contact with children . so , there is a professional expectation on all those that are working with our children and young people that , despite the circumstances they find themselves in , they should continue to report and refer cases if they see anything or hear or are told anything that makes them concerned about a child 's welfare and safety . with regard to children with additional learning needs , i am aware that that can present a number of challenges to families and children , and perhaps steve davies could give some further details . we have been keen to work with local authorities to ensure specialist provision , where that is appropriate—so , if i could give you an example of my own local authority in powys , they have two specialist centres available for children with more profound additional learning needs , and those centres are available—recognising , however , that , even with the provision of specialist hubs , it can be a challenge for some children with additional learning needs to find themselves outside of a routine . hubs are often staffed on a rota basis and therefore children could be faced with staff that they are unfamiliar with . so , even when local authorities—and the vast , vast majority of them do—have specialist services in place , sometimes that might not be the best thing for a child 's health and well-being . but perhaps steve can give us further details of the conversations that have been taking place with directors of education to ensure that children with additional learning needs have access to the hubs and specialist support . steve . </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams am react in response to help students with emotional and mental health difficulties ? </s> dawn bowden am : thank you . just two more questions . one is around emotional and mental health difficulties being experienced by children and young people at the moment . now , there was a very welcome announcement of £1.25 million pounds for school counselling . how is that , in practical terms , being applied if those children are not actually in school ? kirsty williams am : you 're right , dawn : we have to consider how we can support children not only in their learning during this time , but also to recognise the very real impact that the pandemic will have on all of our mental health and well-being—recognising , of course , it is absolutely natural for all of us , including children and young people , to have fears and anxieties at this time . that 's a natural reaction to the situation that we find ourselves in . but , of course , there are issues around those children that would have currently been receiving school counselling , and also being able to be in a position to respond to a potential growth in the number of children that are receiving support . so , the additional money will be made available to local authorities to be able to increase and ramp up services to support children and families . in the immediacy , of course , that will have to be done in different ways than perhaps we 've traditionally delivered services in the past , because of social distancing and lockdown rules , but we want to get some of these systems in place now , rather than waiting for everything to go back to normal . we need to be able to plan to offer services in the here and now , but also be able to plan for what potentially could be an increase in the demand of those services . so , we 've been in close touch with local authorities , asking them what they believe that they will need and how they can use additional financial resources , and we 've been very pleased to be able to secure that for them . dawn bowden am : so , that would include things like telephone and video support as well , i guess , then . </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams am suggest about keeping students studying at home ? </s> suzy davies am : oh , thank you . my question goes back to the comment you made earlier , minister , about the number of children doubling—sorry , vulnerable children doubling—after the easter break , if we can call it that . so , what i 'm after is a sense of churn in these establishments . so , was that figure a recovery of a number of children that had been there before the easter break , and are the people who are there still the same people as were there right at the beginning of the crisis and the lockdown ? kirsty williams am : suzy , what i believe that we 're seeing in our schools is new pupils coming into school . so , there has been , i know , a real effort on behalf of educationalists and social services staff to really reach out to families and to make sure that they 're aware of the support that is available out there for them and their children , and to be able to give them the confidence that there are—that the hubs are available for them . so , we have seen an increase in children . those numbers are still small and , i believe , potentially , there is an opportunity to build on that and to have further conversations with families about the support that is available for vulnerable children , whether that— . that vulnerability , of course , can cover a whole range of issues . as i said when we last met , this is a constantly evolving situation . the initial response—local authorities and schools worked incredibly fast and incredibly quickly to set up these hubs . we 've seen an evolution in the weeks since that time and i am sure that we will continue to see some evolution in approaches . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . hefin , you had a supplementary—briefly , please . hefin david am : yes , very quickly . i 've been listening to the answers with regard to vulnerable children , following on from that answer . i 'm at home with a vulnerable child—a child who has got additional learning needs . she 's got autism ; she 's four . i imagine there are many , many parents in exactly the same position—i 've heard from them . i have n't heard anything from the school or from the local authority . should i have heard something or should i be proactive in pursuing it ? kirsty williams am : i do n't want to comment on personal cases— hefin david am : but there are many others in this position . </s>
<s> how did kirsty williams am plan to narrow the attainment gap between disadvantaged pupils and their more affluent peers ? </s> dawn bowden am : yes , my last question is really about the potential for the attainment gap between disadvantaged pupils and their more affluent peers . is that a concern for you ? i 'm thinking particularly in relation to those less affluent families in having access to technology and so on . what kind of concerns do you have about that and what are we looking to do to try to ensure that that does n't actually play out ? kirsty williams am : thank you , dawn . all of the statistics would tell us that learning loss and the gap , potentially , will affect those more vulnerable children the most . clearly , we will want to consider that as we think about what the new normal for education may look like , or as we develop into future phases . depending on where that child is in their educational journey , of course , the needs and the potential for loss are slightly different . so , for instance , when we 're thinking about very young children , we could be thinking about a lack of social interaction and the development of oracy skills . of course , that , potentially , then will have a knock-on to their ability to learn to read and then to write , for instance . for other children who are , perhaps , older and heading towards formal examinations , the challenge when they return to school will be a slightly different one . i 'm not sure , chair , whether you want me to give some further details about our continuity-of-learning plan and how we are looking to address digital disadvantage now , or whether there are questions later . lynne neagle am : well , i 've got a question on that coming up , so , if it 's okay , dawn , we 'll go on to that now . before we do that , i was just going to ask how the welsh government is paying due regard to the united nations convention on the rights of the child and , obviously , the right children and young people have to an education . i was going to ask you about the risk of inequality due to varying access to digital resources , which are so important in ensuring continuity of learning . </s>
<s> what did working with local authorities actually mean ? </s> kirsty williams am : yes , absolutely . so , i 'm hoping to make an announcement tomorrow , if not later on this week , about some specific details around support for hardware and connectivity . we 're working closely with local authorities to understand just that : to understand from the schools the number of schools that—and a number of them have already done this—have been lending chromebooks , ipads and laptops to children , and also identifying children who are not perhaps engaging in the activities that have been made available . and we 'll be doing two things to support local authorities . the first is to use the stock of equipment that they already have to be able to provide hardware to students . so , we have purchased on a national basis software that , when applied to an old piece of kit , essentially turns it into an out-of-the-box chromebook . because , as you can imagine , just like other things during a pandemic , there has been a rush to buy new stuff on the market and then there is a scramble and nobody can get what they need . so , we 're utilisng kit that is already available in schools and local authorities , and we will look to backfill that to schools at a later point out of our edtech investment programme . the other issue is , once a child has a chromebook or a laptop or a device , issues around connectivity . so , we 're also looking to purchase on a national level and distribute mi-fi connectivity , so students will be able to have access to wi-fi where they do n't have that already . that 's why we need to work closely with local authorities and schools to identify the level of that need and to make sure the stuff gets to the right children . one of the ways in which we are able to do that is to look at engagement in education . so , if a child has n't been engaging , is that because they just do n't want to and they 're voting with their feet—but clearly teachers need to have a conversation about that—or is that because the child simply does not have the ability to do that , and therefore we need to get that stuff out to those children ? so , rather than just simply leaving it to local authorities to scramble around in a very crowded market to get the stuff that they will need , we 're trying to do that on a national basis and deploy that to local authorities . so , our officials have been having conversations with each of our local authorities to ascertain what 's already happened , and there is very good practice out there—schools have been proactive—but where there are gaps , what can we do as a national government to be able to assist them to do that ? we are repurposing some of the resources that we had previously identified for our edtech investment , using those resources to fill this particular gap . </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams am expect for new examinations and school qualifications ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : yes . what are your expectations for how a-level and gcse qualifications will be awarded this summer , following the ministerial direction that you have issued to qualifications wales ? for example , how is an appropriate balance being taken between recognising the progress of pupils in their coursework , mock examinations , and other work to date , and also , the potential of pupils who might have performed particularly well in their examinations this summer ? kirsty williams am : well , janet , i understand—and today is a day where some students would have been undertaking practical examinations—i understand how devastating it has been to both students and teachers alike for the decision i had to take to cancel this summer 's exam series . but i 'm absolutely clear that was the only decision that could have been reached . qualifications wales has made it very clear—and for people who would like more information , i would urge them to look at qualifications wales 's website—how they will go about giving , allocating , and awarding a grade to our a-level and gcse students . firstly , teachers will be asked to submit a grade they believe that student would have obtained , should they have taken an exam . and , of course , teachers will have a range of data and their own professional judgment that they will use in awarding that grade . teachers will also be asked to rank students in order . once that information has been submitted to qualifications wales , there will be a process by which that data will be moderated ; moderated from centre to centre and across the nation , thus giving us the chance to award a student a fair grade whilst being , and remaining , true to ensuring that we have a robust qualifications system , and allowing those students who find themselves at a critical stage of their education , where they are looking to move on to the next stages—that they will have the grades that will allow them to make decisions about their future . </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss to assure higher and further education ? </s> suzy davies am : thank you , chair . i suppose my first question just goes back to the 16-year-olds at the moment and those who are looking forward to either going to college , the older ones going to university , there 'll be apprenticeships , all kinds of future pathways for post 16 . what 's happening at school level , or even at college level , to get those students ready for the next steps , because , obviously , they 're not in their usual environments and getting their usual programme of teaching ? </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the student support regime ? </s> suzy davies am : i just want to ask you now about students and their maintenance loan grants . i think they 're getting , around now , the money going into their bank account that they would normally have expected at this time of year . that 's right , yes ? kirsty williams am : that 's correct , yes . suzy davies am : what 's happening to those students who would normally be living in digs somewhere but are now living at home ? are they likely to be asked to reimburse part of the cost , because obviously it 's not as expensive to live at home as away , and what 's likely to be happening with the maintenance loans over the summer holiday period , potentially ? because we 've had a period now where students ca n't top up their maintenance loans by going out and working on weekends or working in the evenings , or whatever , so their income has been impacted . just in the round , what kind of conversations are happening around that ? again , it 's probably a four-nation approach , i would imagine . kirsty williams am : thank you , suzy . you are correct to say that our student support regime does allow for a lower payment to be made to those students that stay at home during their studies , but i want to reassure students that there will be no change to their student support payments just because they have left their universities and have decided to go home . there should be no change . also , we are continuing , it should be important to say , to pay education maintenance allowance at this time for our fe students that are eligible for that , even though , obviously , for ema there is an attendance requirement , but clearly that is not appropriate to enforce at the moment . you are correct—this is a worrying time for many students in higher education , especially for those who are looking to graduate at this time and are going out into an economy that has been tremendously badly hit by the pandemic . at this time , we continue to have conversations with nus wales about what can be done within a welsh context , but , as you quite rightly say , also within a uk context , to support students who may have been affected . we are continuing—on our webpage we have a frequently asked questions section that advises students in the first instance , especially when it comes , for instance , to the cost of accommodation—to have those discussions , and i 'm very grateful that , in some cases , some of our institutions have been able to waive or partially waive accommodation fees where students have vacated their accommodation and have returned to their usual home address . but we will continue to have dialogue with nus wales and with our counterparts across the country to look to see what more we can do to support students at this time . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting . </s> postdoc b : alright . professor c : so , uh grad f : um , so i wanted to discuss digits briefly , but that wo n't take too long . professor c : oh good . right . ok , agenda items , uh , we have digits , what else we got ? phd a : new version of the presegmentation . professor c : new version of presegmentation . postdoc b : um , do we wan na say something about the , an update of the , uh , transcript ? phd g : yeah , why do n't you summarize the professor c : update on transcripts . phd g : and i guess that includes some the filtering for the , the asi refs , too . professor c : filtering for what ? phd g : for the references that we need to go from the the fancy transcripts to the sort of brain - dead . postdoc b : it 'll it 'll be basically it 'll be a re - cap of a meeting that we had jointly this morning . professor c : uh - huh . phd g : with don , as well . postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : got it . anything else more pressing than those things ? so so , why do n't we just do those . you said yours was brief , so grad f : ok . ok well , the , w uh as you can see from the numbers on the digits we 're almost done . the digits goes up to about four thousand . um , and so , uh , we probably will be done with the ti - digits in , um , another couple weeks . um , depending on how many we read each time . so there were a bunch that we skipped . you know , someone fills out the form and then they 're not at the meeting and so it 's blank . um , but those are almost all filled in as well . and so , once we 're it 's done it would be very nice to train up a recognizer and actually start working with this data . phd d : so we 'll have a corpus that 's the size of ti - digits ? grad f : and so one particular test set of ti - digits . phd d : test set , ok . grad f : so , i i extracted , ther - there was a file sitting around which people have used here as a test set . it had been randomized and so on and that 's just what i used to generate the order . of these particular ones . phd d : oh ! great . great . professor c : so , i 'm impressed by what we could do , is take the standard training set for ti - digits , train up with whatever , you know , great features we think we have , uh for instance , and then test on uh this test set . grad f : um professor c : and presumably uh it should do reasonably well on that , and then , presumably , we should go to the distant mike , and it should do poorly . phd d : yeah . professor c : and then we should get really smart over the next year or two , and it that should get better . grad f : right . and inc increase it by one or two percent , yeah . professor c : yeah , yeah . grad f : um , but , in order to do that we need to extract out the actual digits . professor c : right . grad f : um , so that the reason it 's not just a transcript is that there 're false starts , and misreads , and miscues and things like that . and so i have a set of scripts and x waves where you just select the portion , hit r , um , it tells you what the next one should be , and you just look for that . you know , so it it 'll put on the screen , `` the next set is six nine , nine two two `` . and you find that , and , hit the key and it records it in a file in a particular format . professor c : so is this grad f : and so the the question is , should we have the transcribers do that or should we just do it ? well , some of us . i 've been do i 've done , eight meetings , something like that , just by hand . just myself , rather . so it will not take long . um professor c : uh , what what do you think ? postdoc b : my feeling is that we discussed this right before coffee and i think it 's a it 's a fine idea partly because , um , it 's not un unrelated to their present skill set , but it will add , for them , an extra dimension , it might be an interesting break for them . and also it is contributing to the , uh , c composition of the transcript cuz we can incorporate those numbers directly and it 'll be a more complete transcript . so i 'm i think it 's fine , that part . grad f : there is there is professor c : so you think it 's fine to have the transcribers do it ? postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah , ok . grad f : there 's one other small bit , which is just entering the information which at s which is at the top of this form , onto the computer , to go along with the where the digits are recorded automatically . phd d : good . professor c : yeah . grad f : and so it 's just , you know , typing in name , times time , date , and so on . um , which again either they can do , but it is , you know , firing up an editor , or , again , i can do . or someone else can do . postdoc b : and , that , you know , i 'm not , that that one i 'm not so sure if it 's into the the , things that , i , wanted to use the hours for , because the , the time that they 'd be spending doing that they would n't be able to be putting more words on . but that 's really your choice , it 's your phd d : so are these two separate tasks that can happen ? or do they have to happen at the same time before grad f : no they do n't have this you have to enter the data before , you do the second task , but they do n't have to happen at the same time . so it 's it 's just i have a file whi which has this information on it , and then when you start using my scripts , for extracting the times , it adds the times at the bottom of the file . and so , um , i mean , it 's easy to create the files and leave them blank , and so actually we could do it in either order . phd d : oh , ok . grad f : um , it 's it 's sort of nice to have the same person do it just as a double - check , to make sure you 're entering for the right person . but , either way . professor c : yeah . yeah just by way of uh , uh , a uh , order of magnitude , uh , um , we 've been working with this aurora , uh data set . and , uh , the best score , on the , nicest part of the data , that is , where you 've got training and test set that are basically the same kinds of noise and so forth , uh , is about , uh i think the best score was something like five percent , uh , error , per digit . phd a : per digit . professor c : so , that grad f : per digit . professor c : you 're right . so if you were doing ten digit , uh , recognition , you would really be in trouble . so so the the point there , and this is uh car noise uh , uh things , but but real real situation , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : well , `` real `` , um , the uh there 's one microphone that 's close , that they have as as this sort of thing , close versus distant . uh but in a car , instead of instead of having a projector noise it 's it 's car noise . uh but it was n't artificially added to get some some artificial signal - to - noise ratio . it was just people driving around in a car . so , that 's that 's an indication , uh that was with , many sites competing , and this was the very best score and so forth , so . more typical numbers like phd d : although the models were n't , that good , right ? i mean , the models are pretty crappy ? professor c : you 're right . i think that we could have done better on the models , but the thing is that we got this this is the kind of typical number , for all of the , uh , uh , things in this task , all of the , um , languages . and so i i think we 'd probably the models would be better in some than in others . um , so , uh . anyway , just an indication once you get into this kind of realm even if you 're looking at connected digits it can be pretty hard . postdoc b : hmm . it 's gon na be fun to see how we , compare at this . very exciting . s @ @ . professor c : yeah . phd d : how did we do on the ti - digits ? grad f : well the prosodics are so much different s it 's gon na be , strange . i mean the prosodics are not the same as ti - digits , for example . professor c : yeah . grad f : so i 'm i 'm not sure how much of effect that will have . phd d : h how do phd g : what do you mean , the prosodics ? grad f : um , just what we were talking about with grouping . that with these , the grouping , there 's no grouping at all , and so it 's just the only sort of discontinuity you have is at the beginning and the end . phd g : so what are they doing in aurora , are they reading actual phone numbers , grad f : aurora i do n't know . i do n't know what they do in aurora . phd g : or , a a digit at a time , or ? professor c : uh , i 'm not sure how phd g : cuz it 's professor c : no , no i mean it 's connected it 's connected , uh , digits , phd g : connected . professor c : yeah . but . grad f : but right . phd g : so there 's also the not just the prosody but the cross the cross - word modeling is probably quite different . grad f : but in ti - digits , they 're reading things like zip codes and phone numbers and things like that , phd g : right . phd d : do we do on ti - digits ? grad f : so it 's gon na be different . i do n't remember . i mean , very good , right ? professor c : yeah , i mean we were in the . grad f : one and a half percent , two percent , something like that ? professor c : uh , i th no i think we got under a percent , but it was but it 's but i mean . the very best system that i saw in the literature was a point two five percent or something that somebody had at at bell labs , or . uh , but . but , uh , sort of pulling out all the stops . grad f : oh really ? postdoc b : s @ @ . it s strikes me that there are more each of them is more informative because it 's so , random , grad f : ok . alright . professor c : but i think a lot of systems sort of get half a percent , or three - quarters a percent , grad f : right . professor c : and we 're we 're in there somewhere . grad f : but that i mean it 's really it 's it 's close - talking mikes , no noise , clean signal , just digits , i mean , every everything is good . professor c : yeah . phd g : it 's the beginning of time in speech recognition . grad f : yes , exactly . professor c : yeah . grad f : and we 've only recently got it to anywhere near human . phd g : it 's like the , single cell , you know , it 's the beginning of life , phd d : pre - prehistory . phd g : yeah . grad f : and it 's still like an order of magnitude worse than what humans do . phd g : right . professor c : yeah . when when they 're wide awake , yeah . um , grad f : yeah . after coffee . professor c : after coffee , you 're right . not after lunch . grad f : ok , so , um , what i 'll do then is i 'll go ahead and enter , this data . and then , hand off to jane , and the transcribers to do the actual extraction of the digits . professor c : yeah . yeah . one question i have that that i mean , we would n't know the answer to now but might , do some guessing , but i was talking before about doing some model modeling of arti uh , uh , marking of articulatory , features , with overlap and so on . and , and , um , on some subset . one thought might be to do this uh , on on the digits , or some piece of the digits . uh , it 'd be easier , uh , and so forth . the only thing is i 'm a little concerned that maybe the kind of phenomena , in w i i the reason for doing it is because the the argument is that certainly with conversational speech , the stuff that we 've looked at here before , um , just doing the simple mapping , from , um , the phone , to the corresponding features that you could look up in a book , uh , is n't right . it is n't actually right . in fact there 's these overlapping processes where some voicing some up and then some , you know , some nasality is comes in here , and so forth . and you do this gross thing saying `` well i guess it 's this phone starting there `` . so , uh , that 's the reasoning . but , it could be that when we 're reading digits , because it 's it 's for such a limited set , that maybe maybe that phenomenon does n't occur as much . i do n't know . di - an anybody ? do you have any ? anybody have any opinion about that , postdoc b : and that people might articulate more , and you that might end up with more a closer correspondence . professor c : mm - hmm . yeah . grad f : yeah that 's i i agree . phd d : sort of less predictability , grad f : that it 's just postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . phd d : and you hafta grad f : it 's a well would , this corpus really be the right one to even try that on ? phd g : well it 's definitely true that , when people are , reading , even if they 're re - reading what , they had said spontaneously , that they have very different patterns . mitch showed that , and some , dissertations have shown that . professor c : right . phd g : so the fact that they 're reading , first of all , whether they 're reading in a room of , people , or rea you know , just the fact that they 're reading will make a difference . professor c : yeah . phd g : and , depends what you 're interested in . professor c : see , i do n't know . so , may maybe the thing will be do to take some very small subset , i mean not have a big , program , but take a small set , uh , subset of the conversational speech and a small subset of the digits , and look and and just get a feeling for it . um , just take a look . really . postdoc b : h that could could be an interesting design , too , cuz then you 'd have the com the comparison of the , uh , predictable speech versus the less predictable speech professor c : cuz i do n't think anybody is , i at least , i do n't know , of anybody , uh , well , i do n't know , the answers . yeah . postdoc b : and maybe you 'd find that it worked in , in the , case of the pr of the , uh , non - predictable . professor c : yeah . phd d : hafta think about , the particular acoustic features to mark , too , because , i mean , some things , they would n't be able to mark , like , uh , you know , uh , tense lax . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : some things are really difficult . you know , postdoc b : well . phd d : just listening . grad f : m i think we can get ohala in to , give us some advice on that . phd d : yeah . postdoc b : also i thought you were thinking of a much more restricted set of features , that professor c : yeah , but i i i i was , like he said , i was gon na bring john in and ask john what he thought . postdoc b : yeah , sure . sure . yeah . professor c : right . but i mean you want you want it be restrictive but you also want it to to to have coverage . grad f : right . professor c : you know i you should . it should be such that if you , if you , uh , if you had o um , all of the features , determined that you that you were uh ch have chosen , that that would tell you , uh , in the steady - state case , uh , the phone . so , um . grad f : even , i guess with vowels that would be pretty hard , would n't it ? to identify actually , you know , which one it is ? postdoc b : it would seem to me that the points of articulation would be m more , g uh , i mean that 's i think about articulatory features , i think about , points of articulation , which means , uh , rather than vowels . grad f : yeah . phd d : points of articulation ? what do you mean ? postdoc b : so , is it , uh , bilabial or dental or is it , you know , palatal . professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : which which are all like where where your tongue comes to rest . professor c : place , place . phd d : place of ar place of articulation . grad f : uvular . phd a : place . postdoc b : place . thank you , what whatev whatever i s said , that 's professor c : yeah . postdoc b : i really meant place . professor c : yeah . phd d : ok , i see . professor c : yeah . ok we got our jargon then , ok . postdoc b : yeah . phd g : well it 's also , there 's , really a difference between , the pronunciation models in the dictionary , and , the pronunciations that people produce . and , so , you get , some of that information from steve 's work on the on the labeling professor c : right . grad f : right . phd g : and it really , i actually think that data should be used more . that maybe , although i think the meeting context is great , that he has transcriptions that give you the actual phone sequence . and you can go from not from that to the articulatory features , but that would be a better starting point for marking , the gestural features , then , data where you do n't have that , because , we you wan na know , both about the way that they 're producing a certain sound , and what kinds of , you know what kinds of , phonemic , differences you get between these , transcribed , sequences and the dictionary ones . professor c : well you might be right that mi might be the way at getting at , what i was talking about , but the particular reason why i was interested in doing that was because i remember , when that happened , and , john ohala was over here and he was looking at the spectrograms of the more difficult ones . uh , he did n't know what to say , about , what is the sequence of phones there . they came up with some compromise . because that really was n't what it look like . it did n't look like a sequence of phones grad f : right . phd g : right . professor c : it look like this blending thing happening here and here and here . grad f : yeah , so you have this feature here , and , overlap , yeah . phd g : right . professor c : yeah . phd d : there was no name for that . phd g : but right . professor c : yeah . phd g : but it still is there 's a there are two steps . one you know , one is going from a dictionary pronunciation of something , like , `` gon na see you tomorrow `` , grad f : and or `` gonta `` . professor c : right . yeah . phd g : it could be `` going to `` or `` gon na `` or `` gonta s `` you know . professor c : right . phd g : and , yeah . `` gon na see you tomorrow `` , uh , `` guh see you tomorrow `` . and , that it would be nice to have these , intermediate , or these some these reduced pronunciations that those transcribers had marked or to have people mark those as well . professor c : mm - hmm . phd g : because , it 's not , um , that easy to go from the , dictionary , word pronuncia the dictionary phone pronunciation , to the gestural one without this intermediate or a syllable level kind of , representation . grad f : well i do n't think morgan 's suggesting that we do that , though . professor c : do you mean , phd a : yeah . professor c : yeah , i mean , i i i 'm jus at the moment of course we 're just talking about what , to provide as a tool for people to do research who have different ideas about how to do it . so for instance , you might have someone who just has a wor has words with states , and has uh uh , comes from articulatory gestures to that . and someone else , might actually want some phonetic uh intermediate thing . so i think it would be be best to have all of it if we could . but um , grad f : but what i 'm imagining is a score - like notation , where each line is a particular feature . professor c : yeah . grad f : right , professor c : yeah . grad f : so you would say , you know , it 's voiced through here , and so you have label here , and you have nas nasal here , and , they they could be overlapping in all sorts of bizarre ways that do n't correspond to the timing on phones . professor c : i mean this is the kind of reason why i remember when at one of the switchboard , workshops , that uh when we talked about doing the transcription project , dave talkin said , `` ca n't be done `` . grad f : right . professor c : he was he was , what what he meant was that this is n't , you know , a sequence of phones , and when you actually look at switchboard that 's , not what you see , and , you know . and . it , grad f : and in in fact the inter - annotator agreement was not that good , right ? on the harder ones ? professor c : yeah i mean it was phd g : it depends how you look at it , and i i understand what you 're saying about this , kind of transcription exactly , professor c : yeah . phd g : because i 've seen you know , where does the voicing bar start and so forth . professor c : yeah . phd g : all i 'm saying is that , it is useful to have that the transcription of what was really said , and which syllables were reduced . uh , if you 're gon na add the features it 's also useful to have some level of representation which is , is a reduced it 's a pronunciation variant , that currently the dictionaries do n't give you professor c : mm - hmm . phd g : because if you add them to the dictionary and you run recognition , you , you add confusion . professor c : right . right . phd g : so people purposely do n't add them . so it 's useful to know which variant was was produced , at least at the phone level . phd d : so it would be it would be great if we had , either these kind of , labelings on , the same portion of switchboard that steve marked , or , steve 's type markings on this data , with these . phd g : right . that 's all , i mean . exactly . professor c : yeah . phd g : exactly . professor c : yeah , no i i do n't disagree with that . phd g : and steve 's type is fairly it 's not that slow , uh , uh , i dunno exactly what the , timing was , but . professor c : yeah u i do n't disagree with it the on the only thing is that , what you actually will end en end up with is something , i it 's all compromised , right , so , the string that you end up with is n't , actually , what happened . but it 's it 's the best compromise that a group of people scratching their heads could come up with to describe what happened . phd d : and it 's more accurate than , phone labels . phd g : mm - hmm . professor c : but . and it 's more accurate than the than the dictionary or , if you 've got a pronunciation uh lexicon that has three or four , grad f : the word . phd d : yeah . professor c : this might be have been the fifth one that you tr that you pruned or whatever , phd d : so it 's like a continuum . phd g : right . professor c : so sure . phd d : it 's you 're going all the way down , phd g : right . right . professor c : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd g : that 's what i meant is professor c : yeah . phd g : an and in some places it would fill in , so the kinds of gestural features are not everywhere . grad f : well phd d : right . phd g : so there are some things that you do n't have access to either from your ear or the spectrogram , phd d : mm - hmm . phd g : but you know what phone it was and that 's about all you can all you can say . phd d : right . phd g : and then there are other cases where , nasality , voicing phd d : it 's basically just having , multiple levels of of , information and marking , on the signal . phd g : right . right . professor c : yeah . grad f : well the other difference is that the the features , are not synchronous , phd g : right . grad f : right . they overlap each other in weird ways . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad f : so it 's not a strictly one - dimensional signal . professor c : right . grad f : so i think that 's sorta qualitatively different . phd g : right . you can add the features in , uh , but it 'll be underspecified . th - there 'll be no way for you to actually mark what was said completely by features . grad f : well not with our current system but you could imagine designing a system , that the states were features , rather than phones . phd g : and i if you 're well , we we 've probably have a separate , um , discussion of , uh of whether you can do that . postdoc b : that 's well , is n't that i thought that was , well but that was n't that kinda the direction ? grad f : yeah . postdoc b : i thought professor c : yeah , so i mean , what , what where this is , i mean , i i want would like to have something that 's useful to people other than those who are doing the specific kind of research i have in mind , so it should be something broader . but , the but uh where i 'm coming from is , uh , we 're coming off of stuff that larry saul did with with , um , uh , john dalan and muzim rahim in which , uh , they , uh , have , um , a m a multi - band system that is , uh , trained through a combination of gradient learning an and em , to um , estimate , uh , the , uh , value for m for for a particular feature . ok . and this is part of a larger , image that john dalan has about how the human brain does it in which he 's sort of imagining that , individual frequency channels are coming up with their own estimate , of of these , these kinds of something like this . might not be , you know , exact features that , jakobson thought of or something . but i mean you know some , something like that . some kind of low - level features , which are not , fully , you know , phone classification . and the the th this particular image , of how thi how it 's done , is that , then given all of these estimates at that level , there 's a level above it , then which is is making , some kind of sound unit classification such as , you know , phone and and , you know . you could argue what , what a sound unit should be , and and so forth . but that that 's sort of what i was imagining doing , um , and but it 's still open within that whether you would have an intermediate level in which it was actually phones , or not . you would n't necessarily have to . um , but , again , i would n't wan na , would n't want what we we produced to be so , know , local in perspective that it it was matched , what we were thinking of doing one week , and and , and , you know , what you 're saying is absolutely right . that , that if we , can we should put in , uh , another level of , of description there if we 're gon na get into some of this low - level stuff . phd d : well , you know , um i mean if we 're talking about , having the , annotators annotate these kinds of features , it seems like , you know , you the the question is , do they do that on , meeting data ? or do they do that on , switchboard ? grad f : that 's what i was saying , postdoc b : w well it seems like you could do both . grad f : maybe meeting data is n't the right corpus . postdoc b : i mean , i was thinking that it would be interesting , to do it with respect to , parts of switchboard anyway , in terms of , professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : uh partly to see , if you could , generate first guesses at what the articulatory feature would be , based on the phone representation at that lower level . professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : it might be a time gain . but also in terms of comparability of , um , professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : well cuz the yeah , and then also , if you did it on switchboard , you would have , the full continuum of transcriptions . postdoc b : what you gain yep . phd d : you 'd have it , from the lowest level , the ac acoustic features , then you 'd have the , you know , the phonetic level that steve did , postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd g : yeah that that 's all i was thinking about . postdoc b : and you could tell that phd d : and , yeah . phd g : it is telephone band , so , the bandwidth might be phd d : it 'd be a complete , set then . postdoc b : and you get the relative gain up ahead . professor c : it 's so it 's a little different . so i mean i we 'll see wha how much we can , uh , get the people to do , and how much money we 'll have and all this sort of thing , phd g : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : but it it might be good to do what jane was saying uh , you know , seed it , with , guesses about what we think the features are , based on , you know , the phone or steve 's transcriptions or something . to make it quicker . professor c : but , might be do both . grad f : alright , so based on the phone transcripts they would all be synchronous , but then you could imagine , nudging them here and there . phd d : adjusting ? yeah , exactly . postdoc b : yeah . phd d : scoot the voicing over a little , because grad f : right . professor c : well i think what i mean i 'm i 'm a l little behind in what they 're doing , now , and , uh , the stuff they 're doing on switchboard now . but i think that , steve and the gang are doing , something with an automatic system first and then doing some adjustment . as i re as i recall . so i mean that 's probably the right way to go anyway , is to is to start off with an automatic system with a pretty rich pronunciation dictionary that , that , um , you know , tries , to label it all . and then , people go through and fix it . postdoc b : so in in our case you 'd think about us s starting with maybe the regular dictionary entry , and then ? or would we professor c : well , regular dictionary , i mean , this is a pretty rich dictionary . it 's got , got a fair number of pronunciations in it postdoc b : but phd d : or you could start from the if we were gon na , do the same set , of sentences that steve had , done , we could start with those transcriptions . postdoc b : mm - hmm . so i was thinking professor c : yeah . phd g : that 's actually what i was thinking , is tha phd d : yeah . grad f : right . phd g : the problem is when you run , uh , if you run a regular dictionary , um , even if you have variants , in there , which most people do n't , you do n't always get , out , the actual pronunciations , phd d : yeah . phd g : so that 's why the human transcriber 's giving you the that pronunciation , postdoc b : yeah . oh . professor c : actually maybe they 're using phone recognizers . phd g : and so y they they i thought that they were professor c : is that what they 're doing ? grad f : they are . professor c : oh , ok . phd g : we should catch up on what steve is , professor c : yeah . phd g : uh i think that would be a good i good idea . professor c : yeah , so i think that i i we also do n't have , i mean , we 've got a good start on it , but we do n't have a really good , meeting , recorder or recognizer or transcriber or anything yet , so . so , i mean another way to look at this is to , is to , uh , do some stuff on switchboard which has all this other , stuff to it . phd g : yeah . professor c : and then , um , as we get , further down the road and we can do more things ahead of time , we can , do some of the same things to the meeting data . phd d : mm - hmm . yeah . postdoc b : and i 'm and these people might they they are , s most of them are trained with ipa . they 'd be able to do phonetic - level coding , or articulatory . phd d : are they busy for the next couple years , or ? postdoc b : well , you know , i mean they , they they 're interested in continuing working with us , so i mean i , and this would be up their alley , so , we could when the when you d meet with , with john ohala and find , you know what taxonomy you want to apply , then , they 'd be , good to train onto it . professor c : yeah . yeah . anyway , this is , not an urgent thing at all , postdoc b : yeah . professor c : just it came up . phd d : it 'd be very interesting though , to have that data . postdoc b : i think so , too . grad f : i wonder , how would you do a forced alignment ? phd g : yeah . might postdoc b : interesting idea . grad f : to to i mean , you 'd wan na iterate , somehow . yeah . it 's interesting thing to think about . phd g : it might be grad f : i mean you 'd you 'd want models for spreading . phd g : i was thinking it might be n phd d : of the f acoustic features ? grad f : yeah . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . phd g : well it might be neat to do some , phonetic , features on these , nonword words . are are these kinds of words that people never the `` huh `` s and the `` hmm `` s and the `` huh `` and the uh these k no , i 'm serious . there are all these kinds of functional , uh , elements . i do n't know what you call them . but not just fill pauses but all kinds of ways of interrupting { comment } and so forth . grad f : uh - huh . phd g : and some of them are , yeah , `` uh - huh `` s , and `` hmm `` s , and , `` hmm ! `` `` hmm `` { comment } `` ok `` , `` uh `` { comment } grunts , uh , that might be interesting . postdoc b : he 's got lip lipsmacks . phd g : in the meetings . professor c : we should move on . postdoc b : yeah . professor c : uh , new version of , uh , presegmentation ? phd a : uh , oh yeah , um , i worked a little bit on the on the presegmentation to to get another version which does channel - specific , uh , speech - nonspeech detection . and , what i did is i used some normalized features which , uh , look in into the which is normalized energy , uh , energy normalized by the mean over the channels and by the , minimum over the , other . within each channel . and to to , mm , to , yeah , to normalize also loudness and and modified loudness and things and that those special features actually are in my feature vector . and , and , therefore to be able to , uh , somewhat distinguish between foreground and background speech in in the different in each channel . and , eh , i tested it on on three or four meetings and it seems to work , well yeah , fairly well , i i would say . there are some problems with the lapel mike . grad f : of course . phd a : yeah . uh , yeah . grad f : wow that 's great . so i i understand that 's what you were saying about your problem with , minimum . phd a : yeah . and . yeah , and and i had i had , uh , specific problems with . grad f : i get it . so new use ninetieth quartile , rather than , minimum . phd a : yeah . yeah . yeah yeah , then i i did some some some things like that , postdoc b : interesting . phd a : as there there are some some problems in , when , in the channel , there they the the speaker does n't does n't talk much or does n't talk at all . then , the , yeah , there are there are some problems with with with n with normalization , and , then , uh , there the system does n't work at all . so , i 'm i 'm glad that there is the the digit part , where everybody is forced to say something , professor c : right . phd a : so , that 's that 's great for for my purpose . and , the thing is i i , then the evaluation of of the system is a little bit hard , as i do n't have any references . grad f : well we did the hand the one by hand . phd a : yeah , that 's the one one wh where i do the training on so i ca n't do the evaluation on so the thing is , can the transcribers perhaps do some , some some meetings in in terms of speech - nonspeech in in the specific channels ? postdoc b : well , i have phd d : well wo n't you have that from their transcriptions ? postdoc b : well , ok , so , now we need grad f : no , cuz we need is really tight . phd a : yeah . postdoc b : so , um , i think i might have done what you 're requesting , though i did it in the service of a different thing . phd a : oh , great . postdoc b : i have thirty minutes that i 've more tightly transcribed with reference to individual channels . phd a : ok . ok , that 's great . that 's great for me . yeah , so . postdoc b : and i could and and grad f : hopefully that 's not the same meeting that we did . postdoc b : no , actually it 's a different meeting . grad f : good . postdoc b : so , um , e so the , you know , we have the , th they transcribe as if it 's one channel with these with the slashes to separate the overlapping parts . phd a : yeah . postdoc b : and then we run it through then it then i 'm gon na edit it and i 'm gon na run it through channelize which takes it into dave gelbart 's form format . phd a : yeah . postdoc b : and then you have , all these things split across according to channel , and then that means that , if a person contributed more than once in a given , overlap during that time bend that that two parts of the utterance end up together , it 's the same channel , and then i took his tool , and last night for the first thirty minutes of one of these transcripts , i , tightened up the , um , boundaries on individual speakers ' channels , phd a : ok . yeah . postdoc b : cuz his his interface allows me to have total flexibility in the time tags across the channels . phd a : yeah . postdoc b : and um , so . phd a : so , yeah yeah , that that that 's great , but what would be nice to have some more meetings , not just one meeting to to be sure that that , there is a system , phd d : so , current this week . postdoc b : yes . might not be what you need . grad f : yeah , so if we could get a couple meetings done with that level of precision i think that would be a good idea . phd a : ok . yeah . postdoc b : oh , ok . uh , how how m much time so the meetings vary in length , what are we talking about in terms of the number of minutes you 'd like to have as your as your training set ? phd a : it seems to me that it would be good to have , a few minutes from from different meetings , so . but i 'm not sure about how much . postdoc b : ok , now you 're saying different meetings because of different speakers or because of different audio quality or both or ? phd a : both both . different different number of speakers , different speakers , different conditions . professor c : yeah , we do n't have that much variety in meetings yet , uh , i mean we have this meeting and the feature meeting and we have a couple others that we have uh , couple examples of . but but , uh , phd a : yeah , m yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . grad e : even probably with the gains differently will affect it , you mean phd a : uh , not really as professor c : poten - potentially . phd a : uh , because of the normalization , yeah . grad e : oh , cuz you use the normalization ? ok . phd a : yeah . professor c : oh , ok . phd g : we can try running we have n't done this yet because , um , uh , andreas an is is gon na move over the sri recognizer . i basically i ran out of machines at sri , cuz we 're running the evals and i just do n't have machine time there . but , once that 's moved over , uh , hopefully in a a couple days , then , we can take , um , what jane just told us about as , the presegmented , the the segmentations that you did , at level eight or som { comment } at some , threshold that jane , tha right , and try doing , forced alignment . um , on the word strings . grad f : oh , shoot ! phd a : yeah . yeah . postdoc b : the pre presegment phd a : yeah . postdoc b : yeah . phd a : with the recognizer ? yeah . phd g : and if it 's good , then that will that may give you a good boundary . of course if it 's good , we do n't then we 're we 're fine , phd a : yeah . m phd g : but , i do n't know yet whether these , segments that contain a lot of pauses around the words , will work or not . phd a : i i would quite like to have some manually transcribed references for for the system , as i 'm not sure if if it 's really good to compare with with some other automatic , found boundaries . phd g : yeah . right . postdoc b : well , no , if we were to start with this and then tweak it h manually , would that that would be ok ? phd a : yeah . phd g : right . phd a : yeah sure . phd g : they might be ok . it you know it really depends on a lot of things , phd a : yeah . phd g : but , i would have maybe a transciber , uh , look at the result of a forced alignment and then adjust those . phd a : yeah . to a adjust them , or , yeah . yeah , yeah . phd g : that might save some time . phd a : yeah , great . phd g : if they 're horrible it wo n't help at all , but they might not be horrible . phd a : yeah . phd g : so but i 'll let you know when we , uh , have that . phd a : ok , great . postdoc b : how many minutes would you want from i mean , we could easily , get a section , you know , like say a minute or so , from every meeting that we have so f from the newer ones that we 're working on , everyone that we have . and then , should provide this . phd a : if it 's not the first minute of of the meeting , that that 's ok with me , but , in in the first minute , uh , often there are some some strange things going on which which are n't really , well , for , which which are n't re re really good . so . what what i 'd quite like , perhaps , is , to have , some five minutes of of of different meetings , so . postdoc b : somewhere not in the very beginning , five minutes , ok . phd a : yeah . postdoc b : and , then i wanted to ask you just for my inter information , then , would you , be trai cuz i do n't quite unders so , would you be training then , um , the segmenter so that , it could , on the basis of that , segment the rest of the meeting ? so , if i give you like five minutes is the idea that this would then be applied to , uh , to , providing tighter time bands ? phd a : i i could do a a retraining with that , yeah . postdoc b : wow , interesting . phd a : that 's but but i hope that i i do n't need to do it . so , uh it c can be do in an unsupervised way . postdoc b : uh - huh . excellent . excellent , ok . phd a : i 'm i 'm not sure , but , for for for those three meetings whi which i which i did , it seems to be , quite well , but , there are some some as i said some problems with the lapel mike , but , perhaps we can do something with with cross - correlations to , to get rid of the of those . and . yeah . that 's that 's what i that 's my future work . well well what i want to do is to to look into cross - correlations for for removing those , false overlaps . postdoc b : wonderful . phd g : are the , um , wireless , different than the wired , mikes , at all ? i mean , have you noticed any difference ? phd a : i 'm i 'm not sure , um , if if there are any wired mikes in those meetings , or , uh , i have have to loo have a look at them but , i 'm i 'm i think there 's no difference between , phd g : so it 's just the lapel versus everything else ? phd a : yeah . yeah . postdoc b : ok , so then , if that 's five minutes per meeting we 've got like twelve minutes , twelve meetings , roughly , that i 'm that i 've been working with , then professor c : of of of the meetings that you 're working with , how many of them are different , tha are there any of them that are different than , these two meetings ? postdoc b : well oh wa in terms of the speakers or the conditions or the ? professor c : yeah , speakers . sorry . phd a : yeah , that postdoc b : um , we have different combinations of speakers . i mean , just from what i 've seen , uh , there are some where , um , you 're present or not present , and , then then you have the difference between the networks group and this group phd a : yeah , i know , some of the nsa meetings , yeah . professor c : yeah . so i did n't know in the group you had if you had phd a : yeah . professor c : so you have the networks meeting ? phd a : yeah . postdoc b : yep , we do . professor c : do you have any of jerry 's meetings in your , pack , er , postdoc b : um , no . we could , i mean you you recorded one last week or so . i could get that new one in this week i get that new one in . grad f : yep . u phd g : we 're gon na be recording them every monday , professor c : yeah . cuz i think he really needs variety , phd g : so phd a : yeah . postdoc b : great . professor c : and and having as much variety for speaker certainly would be a big part of that i think . phd a : yeah . postdoc b : ok , so if i , ok , included include , ok , then , uh , if i were to include all together samples from twelve meetings that would only take an hour and i could get the transcribers to do that right i mean , what i mean is , that would be an hour sampled , and then they 'd transcribe those that hour , right ? that 's what i should do ? professor c : yeah . and . phd a : that 's that 's . postdoc b : i do n't mean transcribe professor c : right . ye - but you 're y postdoc b : i mean i mean adjust . so they get it into the multi - channel format and then adjust the timebands so it 's precise . professor c : so that should be faster than the ten times kind of thing , postdoc b : absolutely . i did i did , um , uh , so , last night i did , uh , professor c : yeah . postdoc b : oh gosh , well , last night , i did about half an hour in , three hours , which is not , terrific , professor c : yeah . postdoc b : but , um , anyway , it 's an hour and a half per professor c : yeah . well , that 's probably . postdoc b : well , i ca n't calculate on my , on my feet . phd a : do the transcribers actually start wi with , uh , transcribing new meetings , or are they ? postdoc b : well , um they 're still working they still have enough to finish that i have n't assigned a new meeting , but the next , m m i was about to need to assign a new meeting and i was going to take it from one of the new ones , and i could easily give them jerry feldman 's meeting , no problem . and , then phd g : so they 're really running out of , data , prett i mean that 's good . postdoc b : mm - hmm . uh , that first set . phd g : um , ok . professor c : they 're running out of data unless we s make the decision that we should go over and start , uh , transcribing the other set . phd g : so professor c : there the first the first half . phd a : yeah . postdoc b : and so i was in the process of like editing them but this is wonderful news . professor c : alright . postdoc b : we funded the experiment with , uh also we were thinking maybe applying that that to getting the , yeah , that 'll be , very useful to getting the overlaps to be more precise all the way through . professor c : so this , blends nicely into the update on transcripts . postdoc b : yes , it does . so , um , { comment } um , liz , and and don , and i met this morning , in the barco room , with the lecture hall , phd g : yeah , please . go ahead . and this afternoon . postdoc b : and this afternoon , it drifted into the afternoon , { comment } uh , concerning this issue of , um , the , well there 's basically the issue of the interplay between the transcript format and the processing that , they need to do for , the sri recognizer . and , um , well , so , i mentioned the process that i 'm going through with the data , so , you know , i get the data back from the transcri well , s uh , metaphorically , get the data back from the transcriber , and then i , check for simple things like spelling errors and things like that . and , um , i 'm going to be doing a more thorough editing , with respect to consistency of the conventions . but they 're they 're generally very good . and , then , i run it through , uh , the channelize program to get it into the multi - channel format , ok . and the , what we discussed this morning , i would summarize as saying that , um , these units that result , in a a particular channel and a particular timeband , at at that level , um , vary in length . and , um , their recognizer would prefer that the units not be overly long . but it 's really an empirical question , whether the units we get at this point through , just that process i described might be sufficient for them . so , as a first pass through , a first chance without having to do a lot of hand - editing , what we 're gon na do , is , i 'll run it through channelize , give them those data after i 've done the editing process and be sure it 's clean . and i can do that , pretty quickly , with just , that minimal editing , without having to hand - break things . professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : and then we 'll see if the units that we 're getting , uh , with the at that level , are sufficient . and maybe they do n't need to be further broken down . and if they do need to be further broken down then maybe it just be piece - wise , maybe it wo n't be the whole thing . so , that 's that 's what we were discussing , this morning as far as i among phd g : right . postdoc b : also we discussed some adaptational things , phd g : then lots of postdoc b : so it 's like , phd g : right . postdoc b : uh you know i had n't , uh , incorporated , a convention explicitly to handle acronyms , for example , but if someone says , pzm it would be nice to have that be directly interpretable from , the transcript what they said , professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : or pi - uh tcl tcl i mean . it 's like y it 's and so , um , i 've i 've incorporated also convention , with that but that 's easy to handle at the post editing phase , and i 'll mention it to , transcribers for the next phase but that 's ok . and then , a similar conv uh , convention for numbers . so if they say one - eighty - three versus one eight three . um , and also i 'll be , um , encoding , as i do my post - editing , the , things that are in curly brackets , which are clarificational material . and eh to incorporate , uh , keyword , at the beginning . so , it 's gon na be either a gloss or it 's gon na be a vocal sound like a , laugh or a cough , or , so forth . or a non - vocal sound like a doors door - slam , and that can be easily done with a , you know , just a one little additional thing in the , in the general format . phd g : yeah we j we just needed a way to , strip , you know , all the comments , all the things th the that linguist wants but the recognizer ca n't do anything with . um , but to keep things that we mapped to like reject models , or , you know , uh , mouth noise , or , cough . and then there 's this interesting issue jane brought up which i had n't thought about before but i was , realizing as i went through the transcripts , that there are some noises like , um , well the good example was an inbreath , where a transcriber working from , the mixed , signal , does n't know whose breath it is , grad f : right . phd g : and they 've been assigning it to someone that may or may not be correct . and what we do is , if it 's a breath sound , you know , a sound from the speaker , we map it , to , a noise model , like a mouth - noise model in the recognizer , and , yeah , it probably does n't hurt that much once in a while to have these , but , if they 're in the wrong channel , that 's , not a good idea . and then there 's also , things like door - slams that 's really in no one 's channel , they 're like it 's in the room . phd a : yeah . grad f : right . phd g : and uh , jane had this nice , uh , idea of having , like an extra , uh couple tiers , grad f : an extra channel . postdoc b : yeah . i 've been i 've been adding that to the ones i 've been editing . phd g : yeah . and we were thinking , that is useful also when there 's uncertainties . so if they hear a breath and they do n't know who breath it is it 's better to put it in that channel than to put it in the speaker 's channel because maybe it was someone else 's breath , or uh , so i think that 's a good you can always clean that up , post - processing . postdoc b : yeah . phd g : so a lot of little details , but i think we 're , coming to some kinda closure , on that . so the idea is then , uh , don can take , uh , jane 's post - processed channelized version , and , with some scripts , you know , convert that to to a reference for the recognizer and we can , can run these . so when that 's , ready you know , as soon as that 's ready , and as soon as the recognizer is here we can get , twelve hours of force - aligned and recognized data . and , you know , start , working on it , postdoc b : and phd g : so we 're , i dunno a coup a week or two away i would say from , uh , if if that process is automatic once we get your post - process , transcript . postdoc b : mm - hmm . and that does n't the amount of editing that it would require is not very much either . i 'm just hoping that the units that are provided in that way , will be sufficient cuz i would save a lot of , uh , time , dividing things . phd g : yeah , some of them are quite long . just from i dunno how long were you did one ? grad e : i saw a couple , around twenty seconds , and that was just without looking too hard for it , so , i would imagine that there might be some that are longer . phd g : right . postdoc b : well n one question , e w would that be a single speaker or is that multiple speakers overlapping ? grad e : no . no , but if we 're gon na segment it , like if there 's one speaker in there , that says `` ok `` or something , right in the middle , it 's gon na have a lot of dead time around it , phd g : right . it 's not the it 's not the fact that we ca n't process a twenty second segment , it 's the fact that , there 's twenty seconds in which to place one word in the wrong place grad e : so it 's not postdoc b : yeah . grad e : yeah . phd g : you know , if if someone has a very short utterance there , and that 's where , we , might wan na have this individual , you know , ha have your pre pre - process input . phd a : yep . yeah . sure . postdoc b : that 's very important . phd a : i i i thought that perhaps the transcribers could start then from the those mult multi - channel , uh , speech - nonspeech detections , if they would like to . phd g : and i just do n't know , i have to run it . postdoc b : in in doing the hand - marking ? phd g : right . phd a : yeah . postdoc b : yeah that 's what i was thinking , too . phd g : right . postdoc b : yeah . phd g : so that 's probably what will happen , but we 'll try it this way and see . phd a : yeah . phd g : i mean it 's probably good enough for force - alignment . if it 's not then we 're really then we def definitely phd a : yeah . phd g : uh , but for free recognition i 'm it 'll probably not be good enough . we 'll probably get lots of errors because of the cross - talk , and , noises and things . professor c : good s i think that 's probably our agenda , or starting up there . postdoc b : oh i wanted to ask one thing , the microphones the new microphones , professor c : yeah ? k . postdoc b : when do we get , uh ? grad f : uh , they said it would take about a week . postdoc b : oh , exciting . k . k . phd d : you ordered them already ? grad f : mm - hmm . phd d : great . phd g : so what happens to our old microphones ? professor c : they go where old microphones go . grad f : um phd g : do we give them to someone , or ? grad f : well the only thing we 're gon na have extra , for now , phd g : we do n't have more receivers , we just have grad f : right , we don so the only thing we 'll have extra now is just the lapel . phd g : right . grad f : not not the , bodypack , just the lapel . phd g : just the lapel itself . grad f : um , and then one of the one of those . since , what i decided to do , on morgan 's suggestion , was just get two , new microphones , um , and try them out . and then , if we like them we 'll get more . phd g : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . grad f : since they 're they 're like two hundred bucks a piece , we wo n't , uh , at least try them out . phd d : so it 's a replacement for this headset mike ? grad f : yep . yep . professor c : yeah . grad f : and they 're gon na do the wiring for us . phd d : what 's the , um , style of the headset ? grad f : it 's , um , it 's by crown , and it 's one of these sort of mount around the ear thingies , and , uh , when i s when i mentioned that we thought it was uncomfortable he said it was a common problem with the sony . and this is how apparently a lot of people are getting around it . and i checked on the web , and every site i went to , raved about this particular mike . it 's apparently comfortable and stays on the head well , so we 'll see if it 's any good . but , uh , i think it 's promising . postdoc b : you said it was used by aerobics instructors ? grad f : yep . yep , so it was it was advertised for performers postdoc b : that says a lot . professor c : for the recor for the record adam is not a paid employee or a consultant of crown . grad f : and excuse me ? professor c : i said `` for the record adam is is not a paid consultant or employee of crown `` . grad f : excuse me ? phd g : right . grad f : that 's right . phd g : however , he may be solicited after these meetings are distributed . grad f : well we 're using the crown p z professor c : yeah . phd g : do n't worry about finishing your dissertation . grad f : these are crown are n't they ? professor c : right . grad f : the p z ms are crown , are n't they ? professor c : yeah . grad f : yeah , i thought they were . professor c : you bet . you bet . grad f : and they work very well . professor c : so if we go to a workshop about all this this it 's gon na be a meeting about meetings about meetings . ok . so . grad f : and then it we have to go to the planning session for that workshop . professor c : oh , yeah , what which 'll be the meeting about the meeting about the meeting . phd d : oh , god . grad f : cuz then it would be a meeting about the meeting about the meeting about meetings . professor c : yeah ? just start saying `` m four `` . yeah , ok . grad f : yeah . m to the fourth . professor c : should we do the digits ? grad f : yep , go for it . phd a : s s grad f : pause between the lines , remember ? </s>
<s> summarize what was said about the digits recordings </s> grad f : and that 's just what i used to generate the order . of these particular ones . phd d : oh ! great . great . professor c : so , i 'm impressed by what we could do , is take the standard training set for ti - digits , train up with whatever , you know , great features we think we have , uh for instance , and then test on uh this test set . grad f : um professor c : and presumably uh it should do reasonably well on that , and then , presumably , we should go to the distant mike , and it should do poorly . phd d : yeah . professor c : and then we should get really smart over the next year or two , and it that should get better . grad f : right . and inc increase it by one or two percent , yeah . professor c : yeah , yeah . grad f : um , but , in order to do that we need to extract out the actual digits . professor c : right . grad f : um , so that the reason it 's not just a transcript is that there 're false starts , and misreads , and miscues and things like that . and so i have a set of scripts and x waves where you just select the portion , hit r , um , it tells you what the next one should be , and you just look for that . you know , so it it 'll put on the screen , `` the next set is six nine , nine two two `` . and you find that , and , hit the key and it records it in a file in a particular format . professor c : so is this grad f : and so the the question is , should we have the transcribers do that or should we just do it ? well , some of us . i 've been do i 've done , eight meetings , something like that , just by hand . just myself , rather . so it will not take long . um professor c : uh , what what do you think ? postdoc b : my feeling is that we discussed this right before coffee and i think it 's a it 's a fine idea partly because , um , it 's not un unrelated to their present skill set , but it will add , for them , an extra dimension , it might be an interesting break for them . and also it is contributing to the , uh , c composition of the transcript cuz we can incorporate those numbers directly and it 'll be a more complete transcript . so i 'm i think it 's fine , that part . grad f : there is there is professor c : so you think it 's fine to have the transcribers do it ? postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah , ok . grad f : there 's one other small bit , which is just entering the information which at s which is at the top of this form , onto the computer , to go along with the where the digits are recorded automatically . phd d : good . professor c : yeah . grad f : and so it 's just , you know , typing in name , times time , date , and so on . um , which again either they can do , but it is , you know , firing up an editor , or , again , i can do . or someone else can do . postdoc b : and , that , you know , i 'm not , that that one i 'm not so sure if it 's into the the , things that , i , wanted to use the hours for , because the , the time that they 'd be spending doing that they would n't be able to be putting more words on . but that 's really your choice , it 's your phd d : so are these two separate tasks that can happen ? or do they have to happen at the same time before grad f : no they do n't have this you have to enter the data before , you do the second task , but they do n't have to happen at the same time . so it 's it 's just i have a file whi which has this information on it , and then when you start using my scripts , for extracting the times , it adds the times at the bottom of the file . and so , um , i mean , it 's easy to create the files and leave them blank , and so actually we could do it in either order . phd d : oh , ok . grad f : um , it 's it 's sort of nice to have the same person do it just as a double - check , to make sure you 're entering for the right person . but , either way . professor c : yeah . yeah just by way of uh , uh , a uh , order of magnitude , uh , um , we 've been working with this aurora , uh data set . and , uh , the best score , on the , nicest part of the data , that is , where you 've got training and test set that are basically the same kinds of noise and so forth , uh , is about , uh i think the best score was something like five percent , uh , error , per digit . phd a : per digit . professor c : so , that grad f : per digit . professor c : you 're right . so if you were doing ten digit , uh , recognition , you would really be in trouble . so so the the point there , and this is uh car noise uh , uh things , but but real real situation , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : well , `` real `` , um , the uh there 's one microphone that 's close , that they have as as this sort of thing , close versus distant . uh but in a car , instead of instead of having a projector noise it 's it 's car noise . uh but it was n't artificially added to get some some artificial signal - to - noise ratio . it was just people driving around in a car . so , that 's that 's an indication , uh that was with , many sites competing , and this was the very best score and so forth , so . more typical numbers like phd d : although the models were n't , that good , right ? i mean , the models are pretty crappy ? professor c : you 're right . i think that we could have done better on the models , but the thing is that we got this this is the kind of typical number , for all of the , uh , uh , things in this task , all of the , um , languages . and so i i think we 'd probably the models would be better in some than in others . um , so , uh . anyway , just an indication once you get into this kind of realm even if you 're looking at connected digits it can be pretty hard . postdoc b : hmm . it 's gon na be fun to see how we , compare at this . very exciting . s @ @ . professor c : yeah . phd d : how did we do on the ti - digits ? grad f : well the prosodics are so much different s it 's gon na be , strange . i mean the prosodics are not the same as ti - digits , for example . professor c : yeah . grad f : so i 'm i 'm not sure how much of effect that will have . phd d : h how do phd g : what do you mean , the prosodics ? grad f : um , just what we were talking about with grouping . that with these , the grouping , there 's no grouping at all , and so it 's just the only sort of discontinuity you have is at the beginning and the end . phd g : so what are they doing in aurora , are they reading actual phone numbers , grad f : aurora i do n't know . i do n't know what they do in aurora . phd g : or , a a digit at a time , or ? professor c : uh , i 'm not sure how phd g : cuz it 's professor c : no , no i mean it 's connected it 's connected , uh , digits , phd g : connected . professor c : yeah . but . grad f : but right . phd g : so there 's also the not just the prosody but the cross the cross - word modeling is probably quite different . grad f : but in ti - digits , they 're reading things like zip codes and phone numbers and things like that , phd g : right . phd d : do we do on ti - digits ? grad f : so it 's gon na be different . i do n't remember . i mean , very good , right ? professor c : yeah , i mean we were in the . grad f : one and a half percent , two percent , something like that ? professor c : uh , i th no i think we got under a percent , but it was but it 's but i mean . the very best system that i saw in the literature was a point two five percent or something that somebody had at at bell labs , or . uh , but . but , uh , sort of pulling out all the stops . grad f : oh really ? postdoc b : s @ @ . it s strikes me that there are more each of them is more informative because it 's so , random , grad f : ok . alright . professor c : but i think a lot of systems sort of get half a percent , or three - quarters a percent , grad f : right . professor c : and we 're we 're in there somewhere . grad f : but that i mean it 's really it 's it 's close - talking mikes , no noise , clean signal , just digits , i mean , every everything is good . professor c : yeah . phd g : it 's the beginning of time in speech recognition . grad f : yes , exactly . professor c : yeah . grad f : and we 've only recently got it to anywhere near human . phd g : it 's like the , single cell , you know , it 's the beginning of life , phd d : pre - prehistory . phd g : yeah . grad f : and it 's still like an order of magnitude worse than what humans do . phd g : right . professor c : yeah . when when they 're wide awake , yeah . um , grad f : yeah . after coffee . professor c : after coffee , you 're right . not after lunch . grad f : ok , so , um , what i 'll do then is i 'll go ahead and enter , this data . and then , hand off to jane , and the transcribers to do the actual extraction of the digits . professor c : yeah . yeah . one question i have that that i mean , we would n't know the answer to now but might , do some guessing , but i was talking before about doing some model modeling of arti uh , uh , marking of articulatory , features , with overlap and so on . and , and , um , on some subset . one thought might be to do this uh , on on the digits , or some piece of the digits . uh , it 'd be easier , uh , and so forth . the only thing is i 'm a little concerned that maybe the kind of phenomena , in w i i the reason for doing it is because the the argument is that certainly with conversational speech , the stuff that we 've looked at here before , um , just doing the simple mapping , from , um , the phone , to the corresponding features that you could look up in a book , uh , is n't right . it is n't actually right . in fact there 's these overlapping processes where some voicing some up and then some , you know , some nasality is comes in here , and so forth . and you do this gross thing saying `` well i guess it 's this phone starting there `` . so , uh , that 's the reasoning . but , it could be that when we 're reading digits , because it 's it 's for such a limited set , that maybe maybe that phenomenon does n't occur as much . i do n't know . di - an anybody ? do you have any ? anybody have any opinion about that , postdoc b : and that people might articulate more , and you that might end up with more a closer correspondence . professor c : mm - hmm . yeah . grad f : yeah that 's i i agree . phd d : sort of less predictability , grad f : that it 's just postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . phd d : and you hafta grad f : it 's a well would , this corpus really be the right one to even try that on ? </s>
<s> what was said about the transcriber pool ? </s> grad f : um , so that the reason it 's not just a transcript is that there 're false starts , and misreads , and miscues and things like that . and so i have a set of scripts and x waves where you just select the portion , hit r , um , it tells you what the next one should be , and you just look for that . you know , so it it 'll put on the screen , `` the next set is six nine , nine two two `` . and you find that , and , hit the key and it records it in a file in a particular format . professor c : so is this grad f : and so the the question is , should we have the transcribers do that or should we just do it ? well , some of us . i 've been do i 've done , eight meetings , something like that , just by hand . just myself , rather . so it will not take long . um professor c : uh , what what do you think ? postdoc b : my feeling is that we discussed this right before coffee and i think it 's a it 's a fine idea partly because , um , it 's not un unrelated to their present skill set , but it will add , for them , an extra dimension , it might be an interesting break for them . and also it is contributing to the , uh , c composition of the transcript cuz we can incorporate those numbers directly and it 'll be a more complete transcript . so i 'm i think it 's fine , that part . grad f : there is there is professor c : so you think it 's fine to have the transcribers do it ? postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah , ok . grad f : there 's one other small bit , which is just entering the information which at s which is at the top of this form , onto the computer , to go along with the where the digits are recorded automatically . phd d : good . professor c : yeah . grad f : and so it 's just , you know , typing in name , times time , date , and so on . um , which again either they can do , but it is , you know , firing up an editor , or , again , i can do . or someone else can do . postdoc b : and , that , you know , i 'm not , that that one i 'm not so sure if it 's into the the , things that , i , wanted to use the hours for , because the , the time that they 'd be spending doing that they would n't be able to be putting more words on . but that 's really your choice , it 's your phd d : so are these two separate tasks that can happen ? or do they have to happen at the same time before grad f : no they do n't have this you have to enter the data before , you do the second task , but they do n't have to happen at the same time . so it 's it 's just i have a file whi which has this information on it , and then when you start using my scripts , for extracting the times , it adds the times at the bottom of the file . and so , um , i mean , it 's easy to create the files and leave them blank , and so actually we could do it in either order . phd d : oh , ok . grad f : um , it 's it 's sort of nice to have the same person do it just as a double - check , to make sure you 're entering for the right person . but , either way . professor c : yeah . yeah just by way of uh , uh , a uh , order of magnitude , uh , um , we 've been working with this aurora , uh data set . and , uh , the best score , on the , nicest part of the data , that is , where you 've got training and test set that are basically the same kinds of noise and so forth , uh , is about , uh i think the best score was something like five percent , uh , error , per digit . phd a : per digit . professor c : so , that grad f : per digit . professor c : you 're right . so if you were doing ten digit , uh , recognition , you would really be in trouble . so so the the point there , and this is uh car noise uh , uh things , but but real real situation , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : well , `` real `` , um , the uh there 's one microphone that 's close , that they have as as this sort of thing , close versus distant . uh but in a car , instead of instead of having a projector noise it 's it 's car noise . uh but it was n't artificially added to get some some artificial signal - to - noise ratio . it was just people driving around in a car . so , that 's that 's an indication , uh that was with , many sites competing , and this was the very best score and so forth , so . more typical numbers like phd d : although the models were n't , that good , right ? i mean , the models are pretty crappy ? professor c : you 're right . i think that we could have done better on the models , but the thing is that we got this this is the kind of typical number , for all of the , uh , uh , things in this task , all of the , um , languages . and so i i think we 'd probably the models would be better in some than in others . um , so , uh . anyway , just an indication once you get into this kind of realm even if you 're looking at connected digits it can be pretty hard . postdoc b : hmm . it 's gon na be fun to see how we , compare at this . very exciting . s @ @ . professor c : yeah . phd d : how did we do on the ti - digits ? grad f : well the prosodics are so much different s it 's gon na be , strange . i mean the prosodics are not the same as ti - digits , for example . </s>
<s> what did the group say about acoustic-phonetic analyses ? </s> professor c : i mean this is the kind of reason why i remember when at one of the switchboard , workshops , that uh when we talked about doing the transcription project , dave talkin said , `` ca n't be done `` . grad f : right . professor c : he was he was , what what he meant was that this is n't , you know , a sequence of phones , and when you actually look at switchboard that 's , not what you see , and , you know . and . it , grad f : and in in fact the inter - annotator agreement was not that good , right ? on the harder ones ? professor c : yeah i mean it was phd g : it depends how you look at it , and i i understand what you 're saying about this , kind of transcription exactly , professor c : yeah . phd g : because i 've seen you know , where does the voicing bar start and so forth . professor c : yeah . phd g : all i 'm saying is that , it is useful to have that the transcription of what was really said , and which syllables were reduced . uh , if you 're gon na add the features it 's also useful to have some level of representation which is , is a reduced it 's a pronunciation variant , that currently the dictionaries do n't give you professor c : mm - hmm . phd g : because if you add them to the dictionary and you run recognition , you , you add confusion . professor c : right . right . phd g : so people purposely do n't add them . so it 's useful to know which variant was was produced , at least at the phone level . phd d : so it would be it would be great if we had , either these kind of , labelings on , the same portion of switchboard that steve marked , or , steve 's type markings on this data , with these . phd g : right . that 's all , i mean . exactly . professor c : yeah . phd g : exactly . professor c : yeah , no i i do n't disagree with that . phd g : and steve 's type is fairly it 's not that slow , uh , uh , i dunno exactly what the , timing was , but . professor c : yeah u i do n't disagree with it the on the only thing is that , what you actually will end en end up with is something , i it 's all compromised , right , so , the string that you end up with is n't , actually , what happened . but it 's it 's the best compromise that a group of people scratching their heads could come up with to describe what happened . phd d : and it 's more accurate than , phone labels . phd g : mm - hmm . professor c : but . and it 's more accurate than the than the dictionary or , if you 've got a pronunciation uh lexicon that has three or four , grad f : the word . phd d : yeah . professor c : this might be have been the fifth one that you tr that you pruned or whatever , phd d : so it 's like a continuum . phd g : right . professor c : so sure . phd d : it 's you 're going all the way down , phd g : right . right . professor c : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd g : that 's what i meant is professor c : yeah . phd g : an and in some places it would fill in , so the kinds of gestural features are not everywhere . grad f : well phd d : right . phd g : so there are some things that you do n't have access to either from your ear or the spectrogram , phd d : mm - hmm . phd g : but you know what phone it was and that 's about all you can all you can say . phd d : right . phd g : and then there are other cases where , nasality , voicing phd d : it 's basically just having , multiple levels of of , information and marking , on the signal . phd g : right . right . professor c : yeah . grad f : well the other difference is that the the features , are not synchronous , phd g : right . grad f : right . they overlap each other in weird ways . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad f : so it 's not a strictly one - dimensional signal . professor c : right . grad f : so i think that 's sorta qualitatively different . phd g : right . you can add the features in , uh , but it 'll be underspecified . th - there 'll be no way for you to actually mark what was said completely by features . grad f : well not with our current system but you could imagine designing a system , that the states were features , rather than phones . phd g : and i if you 're well , we we 've probably have a separate , um , discussion of , uh of whether you can do that . postdoc b : that 's well , is n't that i thought that was , well but that was n't that kinda the direction ? grad f : yeah . postdoc b : i thought professor c : yeah , so i mean , what , what where this is , i mean , i i want would like to have something that 's useful to people other than those who are doing the specific kind of research i have in mind , so it should be something broader . but , the but uh where i 'm coming from is , uh , we 're coming off of stuff that larry saul did with with , um , uh , john dalan and muzim rahim in which , uh , they , uh , have , um , a m a multi - band system that is , uh , trained through a combination of gradient learning an and em , to um , estimate , uh , the , uh , value for m for for a particular feature . ok . and this is part of a larger , image that john dalan has about how the human brain does it in which he 's sort of imagining that , individual frequency channels are coming up with their own estimate , of of these , these kinds of something like this . might not be , you know , exact features that , jakobson thought of or something . but i mean you know some , something like that . some kind of low - level features , which are not , fully , you know , phone classification . and the the th this particular image , of how thi how it 's done , is that , then given all of these estimates at that level , there 's a level above it , then which is is making , some kind of sound unit classification such as , you know , phone and and , you know . you could argue what , what a sound unit should be , and and so forth . but that that 's sort of what i was imagining doing , um , and but it 's still open within that whether you would have an intermediate level in which it was actually phones , or not . you would n't necessarily have to . um , but , again , i would n't wan na , would n't want what we we produced to be so , know , local in perspective that it it was matched , what we were thinking of doing one week , and and , and , you know , what you 're saying is absolutely right . that , that if we , can we should put in , uh , another level of , of description there if we 're gon na get into some of this low - level stuff . phd d : well , you know , um i mean if we 're talking about , having the , annotators annotate these kinds of features , it seems like , you know , you the the question is , do they do that on , meeting data ? or do they do that on , switchboard ? grad f : that 's what i was saying , postdoc b : w well it seems like you could do both . grad f : maybe meeting data is n't the right corpus . postdoc b : i mean , i was thinking that it would be interesting , to do it with respect to , parts of switchboard anyway , in terms of , professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : uh partly to see , if you could , generate first guesses at what the articulatory feature would be , based on the phone representation at that lower level . professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : it might be a time gain . but also in terms of comparability of , um , professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : well cuz the yeah , and then also , if you did it on switchboard , you would have , the full continuum of transcriptions . postdoc b : what you gain yep . phd d : you 'd have it , from the lowest level , the ac acoustic features , then you 'd have the , you know , the phonetic level that steve did , postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd g : yeah that that 's all i was thinking about . postdoc b : and you could tell that phd d : and , yeah . phd g : it is telephone band , so , the bandwidth might be phd d : it 'd be a complete , set then . postdoc b : and you get the relative gain up ahead . professor c : it 's so it 's a little different . so i mean i we 'll see wha how much we can , uh , get the people to do , and how much money we 'll have and all this sort of thing , phd g : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : but it it might be good to do what jane was saying uh , you know , seed it , with , guesses about what we think the features are , based on , you know , the phone or steve 's transcriptions or something . to make it quicker . professor c : but , might be do both . grad f : alright , so based on the phone transcripts they would all be synchronous , but then you could imagine , nudging them here and there . phd d : adjusting ? yeah , exactly . </s>
<s> what approaches were considered for the analysis ? </s> professor c : yeah . phd g : exactly . professor c : yeah , no i i do n't disagree with that . phd g : and steve 's type is fairly it 's not that slow , uh , uh , i dunno exactly what the , timing was , but . professor c : yeah u i do n't disagree with it the on the only thing is that , what you actually will end en end up with is something , i it 's all compromised , right , so , the string that you end up with is n't , actually , what happened . but it 's it 's the best compromise that a group of people scratching their heads could come up with to describe what happened . phd d : and it 's more accurate than , phone labels . phd g : mm - hmm . professor c : but . and it 's more accurate than the than the dictionary or , if you 've got a pronunciation uh lexicon that has three or four , grad f : the word . phd d : yeah . professor c : this might be have been the fifth one that you tr that you pruned or whatever , phd d : so it 's like a continuum . phd g : right . professor c : so sure . phd d : it 's you 're going all the way down , phd g : right . right . professor c : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd g : that 's what i meant is professor c : yeah . phd g : an and in some places it would fill in , so the kinds of gestural features are not everywhere . grad f : well phd d : right . phd g : so there are some things that you do n't have access to either from your ear or the spectrogram , phd d : mm - hmm . phd g : but you know what phone it was and that 's about all you can all you can say . phd d : right . phd g : and then there are other cases where , nasality , voicing phd d : it 's basically just having , multiple levels of of , information and marking , on the signal . phd g : right . right . professor c : yeah . grad f : well the other difference is that the the features , are not synchronous , phd g : right . grad f : right . they overlap each other in weird ways . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad f : so it 's not a strictly one - dimensional signal . professor c : right . grad f : so i think that 's sorta qualitatively different . phd g : right . you can add the features in , uh , but it 'll be underspecified . th - there 'll be no way for you to actually mark what was said completely by features . grad f : well not with our current system but you could imagine designing a system , that the states were features , rather than phones . phd g : and i if you 're well , we we 've probably have a separate , um , discussion of , uh of whether you can do that . postdoc b : that 's well , is n't that i thought that was , well but that was n't that kinda the direction ? grad f : yeah . postdoc b : i thought professor c : yeah , so i mean , what , what where this is , i mean , i i want would like to have something that 's useful to people other than those who are doing the specific kind of research i have in mind , so it should be something broader . but , the but uh where i 'm coming from is , uh , we 're coming off of stuff that larry saul did with with , um , uh , john dalan and muzim rahim in which , uh , they , uh , have , um , a m a multi - band system that is , uh , trained through a combination of gradient learning an and em , to um , estimate , uh , the , uh , value for m for for a particular feature . ok . and this is part of a larger , image that john dalan has about how the human brain does it in which he 's sort of imagining that , individual frequency channels are coming up with their own estimate , of of these , these kinds of something like this . might not be , you know , exact features that , jakobson thought of or something . but i mean you know some , something like that . some kind of low - level features , which are not , fully , you know , phone classification . and the the th this particular image , of how thi how it 's done , is that , then given all of these estimates at that level , there 's a level above it , then which is is making , some kind of sound unit classification such as , you know , phone and and , you know . you could argue what , what a sound unit should be , and and so forth . but that that 's sort of what i was imagining doing , um , and but it 's still open within that whether you would have an intermediate level in which it was actually phones , or not . you would n't necessarily have to . um , but , again , i would n't wan na , would n't want what we we produced to be so , know , local in perspective that it it was matched , what we were thinking of doing one week , and and , and , you know , what you 're saying is absolutely right . that , that if we , can we should put in , uh , another level of , of description there if we 're gon na get into some of this low - level stuff . phd d : well , you know , um i mean if we 're talking about , having the , annotators annotate these kinds of features , it seems like , you know , you the the question is , do they do that on , meeting data ? or do they do that on , switchboard ? grad f : that 's what i was saying , postdoc b : w well it seems like you could do both . grad f : maybe meeting data is n't the right corpus . postdoc b : i mean , i was thinking that it would be interesting , to do it with respect to , parts of switchboard anyway , in terms of , professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : uh partly to see , if you could , generate first guesses at what the articulatory feature would be , based on the phone representation at that lower level . professor c : mm - hmm . postdoc b : it might be a time gain . but also in terms of comparability of , um , professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : well cuz the yeah , and then also , if you did it on switchboard , you would have , the full continuum of transcriptions . postdoc b : what you gain yep . phd d : you 'd have it , from the lowest level , the ac acoustic features , then you 'd have the , you know , the phonetic level that steve did , postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd g : yeah that that 's all i was thinking about . postdoc b : and you could tell that phd d : and , yeah . phd g : it is telephone band , so , the bandwidth might be phd d : it 'd be a complete , set then . postdoc b : and you get the relative gain up ahead . professor c : it 's so it 's a little different . so i mean i we 'll see wha how much we can , uh , get the people to do , and how much money we 'll have and all this sort of thing , phd g : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : but it it might be good to do what jane was saying uh , you know , seed it , with , guesses about what we think the features are , based on , you know , the phone or steve 's transcriptions or something . to make it quicker . professor c : but , might be do both . grad f : alright , so based on the phone transcripts they would all be synchronous , but then you could imagine , nudging them here and there . phd d : adjusting ? yeah , exactly . postdoc b : yeah . phd d : scoot the voicing over a little , because grad f : right . professor c : well i think what i mean i 'm i 'm a l little behind in what they 're doing , now , and , uh , the stuff they 're doing on switchboard now . but i think that , steve and the gang are doing , something with an automatic system first and then doing some adjustment . as i re as i recall . so i mean that 's probably the right way to go anyway , is to is to start off with an automatic system with a pretty rich pronunciation dictionary that , that , um , you know , tries , to label it all . and then , people go through and fix it . postdoc b : so in in our case you 'd think about us s starting with maybe the regular dictionary entry , and then ? or would we professor c : well , regular dictionary , i mean , this is a pretty rich dictionary . it 's got , got a fair number of pronunciations in it postdoc b : but phd d : or you could start from the if we were gon na , do the same set , of sentences that steve had , done , we could start with those transcriptions . postdoc b : mm - hmm . so i was thinking professor c : yeah . phd g : that 's actually what i was thinking , is tha phd d : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . everybody found his place again ? yeah ? that 's nice . okay so this is our second meeting . and uh still failing ? marketing : yeah . project manager : uh now we 're going um into the functional design . um important thing of this phase is that we 're going to uh try to get an agreement about the user requirements , technical function design , and the working design . so that we can move onto the second uh phase . but first this phase . um first an announcement . there 's a little adaptation in the air conditioning system . so marketing : project manager : there 's our ghost mouse again . that that means that you can have a little trouble with , little trouble with the air conditioning , that 's because of this uh user interface : okay . project manager : it 's in wing c_ and e_ . marketing : okay . project manager : so it should be over in a in a while , couple of days . but it 's going to be cold anyway , so i do n't think you 're gon na need it . user interface : project manager : then our agenda . now first the opening . uh this time i will take the minutes . uh you 're going to have a presentation . all of you . um and we 've got forty minutes for the whole uh prese for the whole uh presentations . so uh i suggest we take about seven minutes per presentation , and then we can have a little discussion about the new project requirements uh which have been sent to me . and then the decision on the control functions uh which we wan na include and those which we do n't wan na include . so we 've got forty minutes for all of it . so i suggest um let 's start with the first presentation . um who wants to be first ? marketing : think i 'll go first . project manager : okay . so marketing : project manager : just maybe it 's easier if you um yeah i think you will tell your presentation as well . just which function you have and what you 're gon na talk about . marketing : 'kay . my name is freek van ponnen . i 'm the market expert . but you already knew that . um i 've done some research . we have we uh have been doing research in a usability lab where we observed um users operating remote controls . uh we let them fill out a questionnaire . we had one hundred of these uh test subjects . uh in addition we did some market research . uh see what the market consists of . what ages are involved . well these are three quite astonishing results , i thought . um remotes are being considered ugly . f uh seventy five percent of the um people questioned uh indicated that they thought their remote were was ugly . um and an additional eighty percent indicated that they would spend more money on a fancy-looking remote control . so um in addition remotes were not very functional . fifty percent of the people indicated they only loo used about ten percent of the buttons on a remote control . and fifty percent of the people indicated that their remote tended to get lost in their room . so some things . then we did some research to the most relevant functions . channel selection and volume selection um both got a ten on a scale of one to ten for relevancy . the power button got a nine . and teletext got a six and a half . so these are the most most uh important functions on a remote control . then there are some one-time use function . that 's what i like to call them . that uh audio settings , video settings , and channel settings buttons . which are not really used very frequently , but are still considered to be of some importance . um channel selection was also indicated to be used very frequently . one hundred and sixty eight times per hour . then these are the this is the market . um sixty percent of the market consists of users between the ages sixteen and forty f six . um main characteristic of this group is that they 're very critical on the remote control . um they like to use new f new functions . but they also are very critical . they wo n't spend their money very easily . so um the users of forty six to sixty five years cons the make up forty percent of the market . they are not really very interested in features . but they do tend to spend their money a lot easier . what i think this indicates for our um design . i think we should make a remote for the future . and this means we would um have to focus on the age ages sixteen to forty five . uh this also makes up most the biggest part of the market , so that will also be where our main profit would be gettable . um this would mean we would have to make a fancy design . um the results also indicated that um about one quarter of the people questioned thought that the remote control caused r_s_ r_s_i_ . um this is certainly something to take into account . and thirty four percent thought that it was hard to learn a n how to operate a new control , remote control . so these are two factors that i think should be included in the design . besides of course that the remote must look very nice . and the functionality as a lot of people indicated , they only use about ten percent of the buttons , i think we should make very few buttons . uh this will also be uh beneficial to the design of the remote . uh i think the most frequently used buttons should be emphasised . especially the channel selection and audio uh selection buttons . 'cause they 're used most and so they should be robust . they should n't break down easily . um then as mo as a lot of people indicated that their um remote got lost in the room , it might be and i say might be because it would um certainly boost the uh production costs a lot . but it might be a good idea to make a docking station . and this would , could get a button in it which would send a signal to the remote which would then beep . so you 'd know where it is in the room . and in addition to this it could um recharge the batteries in the remote if you put it in . then um a surprisingly great deal of people w indicated that um an lcd screen in the remote control would be preferred . this was um mostly people in the age of sixteen to twenty five . but up till forty five it remains feasible . this would also greatly increase the production costs but i think these are just some small factors we could consider . project manager : okay . marketing : that would be all . project manager : thank you . so anybody have um any questions until now ? marketing : any questions ? project manager : about functional requirements ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's clear . now to the second . marketing : 'kay . project manager : user interface : uh okay . um i 've been looking at uh the user interface of it . um f for the techno f functions uh of of it . um project manager : yeah . yeah you can take your time . user interface : okay . project manager : we 've got uh plenty of time , so marketing : you should go to the top thingy . slide show . project manager : yeah . there it is . yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : oh yeah . user interface : um yeah . i think uh we uh must use the general functions uh of the uh remote control . uh uh i 've do i 've uh done a little uh research on the internet and not much information about it , um about uh interface but uh uh yeah i i 've been thinking about a simple manner uh to put a lot of functions uh uh in one um in one uh remote control . uh so uh you 've got a lot of devi uh devices like uh d_v_d_ uh uh television , uh stereo . so um but uh it must be uh user-friendly . so um uh you c you ca n't put a a lot of uh functions uh in one uh yeah . uh uh uh yeah . in one um remote control . project manager : one remote . user interface : but um yeah . um yeah . got uh many functions in one uh remote control , um but um yeah you can see , this is uh quite simple uh remote control . project manager : user interface : um few uh buttons but uh this uh re uh remote control got a a lot of uh buttons . um uh people uh do n't like it , uh so um well what uh i was uh thinking about was um uh keep the general functions uh like they are . so uh like uh the on-off uh button . uh keep it uh yeah l like a red button . uh everybody everybody knows it so uh uh you do n't have to change that . um my personal uh preferences um . use a display for uh specific uh functions of the different uh device . so um wh what i was th uh thinking about was um you 've got um uh this the remote control uh project manager : industrial designer : user interface : and uh you got here the general functions , uh like uh the on-off button uh sound uh i dunno um and um here you 've got a s kind of a display . it 's a touchscreen . so um yeah you got a general f uh f the functions of the device uh for a d_v_d_ player or uh so um the pl yeah um f for uh playing uh reverse uh . and um you got here uh real buttons for uh selecting uh a device . so um this button is for a d_v_d_ or so um for every um device you 've got a uh a f a b a part uh display of a part buttons . so uh you you never got uh all the buttons uh on w one device . project manager : hmm . user interface : so uh that 's uh my uh idea about it . project manager : 'kay . user interface : um yeah and uh let 's see . uh yeah . so a touchscreen . uh and um th the buttons uh the real buttons uh we have to use um . we better c um uh use uh quite uh large buttons uh for um yeah . everybody uh have to use it so uh ol even even old people um young people . so uh we must keep uh buttons uh quite s uh simple and quite large . so uh um project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . uh yeah . that was uh my uh part of it . project manager : okay . user interface : so project manager : anybody has questions about the technical functions ? industrial designer : i think if we are gon na use a touchscreen uh we 're gon na go way above the twelve and a half euros . project manager : yeah . user interface : n i i do n't think so . uh you got uh quite a cheap uh touchscreen . s um it 's uh not uh in colour or something . project manager : touchscreen . user interface : uh it 's just uh um one colo uh yeah . uh i seen uh w uh something on the internet uh not today but uh a few uh weeks ago . uh you got uh yeah quite an uh a kind of uh touchscreen um and it 's uh for uh twenty uh euros or uh less uh . so it 's possible . project manager : 'kay . that 's nice . uh marketing : well it would certainly make a fancy design . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but the it would n't be very robust . marketing : so industrial designer : it 's very fragile and you can get scratches on it . marketing : that is true . project manager : that 's right . user interface : yeah that 's true . project manager : uh maybe we can first um listen to your presentation ? marketing : we would have to look into that . project manager : uh and then we have a little discussion about the requirements and uh design . industrial designer : that 's . okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : marketing : project manager : i think it 's going to uh it 's not too much . okay . industrial designer : okay i 've got a presentation about the working design . um first about how it works . it 's really simple of course . everybody knows how a remote works . the user presses a button . the remote determines what button it is , uses the infrared to send a signal to the tv . the tv switches to the frequency , or what function it is . so we 've got um the the plate . it gots conductive disks for every button . when the user presses a button , a signal got sent , goes to the led and transmits tranmi transmits its to the tv . it 's a very simple device , technically speaking . so this is a schematic overview . you 've got the buttons . the power source . and uh when a button gets pressed , its goes to the chip . the chip uh controls the infrared bulb and perf perhaps a normal bulb . when you press a button you can actually see your pressed button . well um i think we should use default materials , simple plastics . keep the inner workings simple , so it 's robust . uh i think we should focus on aesthetics , the design and the user interface , because if you 're going to use high-tech materials the price is going to go sky-high . and uh you only have to design a remote once , and if you use high-tech materials it come back in every product . so it 's , in my idea , it 's uh it 's gon na be smart to invest in di in design and not in uh in the product itself . that 's it . project manager : okay . thank you . okay . marketing : project manager : uh okay now i hope everybody has a little bit more insight in the functions we all have and what we are doing right now . um i 'm the project manager so i 'm here to mess things up and uh tell you some new uh requirements . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : um that 's , we 've uh got to design a um remote which is only suitable for tv . um that 's because uh it will be too complex user interface : okay . project manager : and the time to market will be too big , if we wan na have it uh for more functions . so it has to be simple . uh another point is we have to skip the teletext , because in the world of uh upcoming internet uh we think teletext is going to be uh a thing of the past . and uh it 's a function we do n't need in our remote control . marketing : project manager : um internet is also mentioned in a function we can use . uh maybe also on televisions it will be available as well . another one is uh the customer is uh forty plus . uh that 's the the market we have to to to target , because we are going to develop a new product which is specially designed for the younger customers . um this is uh a bit pity for the marketing uh expert . marketing : user interface : project manager : because he was uh aiming on the the younger persons . so we have to find a market which is above forty plus uh but which will suit our uh remote control , and the other way round . and we have to be very uh attent in uh putting the corporate image uh in our product . so it has to be visible in our design , in the way our device works . and uh we have to be uh very clear on this point as well . so i suggest let 's have a discussion on the control functions . yeah . marketing : so is there any discussion possible about the new product requirement ? project manager : uh we can see if we can find a way uh between the functions we wan na use and the market we wan na reach with our product . um user interface : mm . marketing : yeah 'cause you 're you 're saying that teletext is gon na be an old feature and it 's not gon na be used anymore anyway pretty soon . and new tvs will have internet access on them . project manager : marketing : but i think if you 're targeting people of forty plus , the chance that they will have a tv with internet access within the next like twenty years is very slim . user interface : yeah . marketing : in addition people indicated that teletext simply was an important feature for the remote control . so i think it 's pretty dumb to put no teletext feature on it . i 'm pretty much against it . project manager : against the no teletext ? marketing : yes . project manager : um marketing : besides that , i think the market for forty plus is like pretty small . but i mean if i s if i see this , it 's i think we 're just gon na go for another project manager : yeah it 's it is user interface : forty project manager : standard remote . marketing : pretty project manager : no i think we can marketing : and not innovative project manager : i think we can do a lot with the design and the simple buttons marketing : remote control . project manager : which were also mentioned . uh if we put a lot of effort in those , we can make a remote control with uh just two or three buttons . or just a remote which is suitable for the market we wan na reach because it is forty percent of the market . user interface : yeah . project manager : and um if you look in holland at the whole generation of forty plus , fifty plus , it it 's the the biggest share of the of the whole population now . marketing : yes but it 's not the biggest part of the market . and besides that , they 're not very critical so i mean they do n't really care what the remote control is like . they 'll just pretty much take the first thing they see and which looks acceptable . project manager : but do n't you think that if we make a remote which is uh typically made for this market , that people think the people think that 's the the device i 've looked for although i did n't realise it . user interface : project manager : so let 's try it . marketing : no . i think that would be the case in the sixteen to forty five age category . because they are critical and they they want to have a fancy remote control . user interface : yeah . marketing : people of forty plus , i mean they want it to work , but as soo as soon as it works it 's okay with them . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think that if we 're if we put our marketing right um we can sell this just like um i do n't know if you 've heard about it in the news , the the elderly mobile phone ? marketing : so project manager : yeah . it 's a big success . industrial designer : yeah if we if we make a remote control just l with that idea in mind , we could make tons of money , i think . project manager : very big success . marketing : i have n't heard of it . project manager : yeah . uh . i think so as well . industrial designer : we do n't have to focus on on on the on the design then but on functionality . we just change our focus on the project , and i think we can uh we can sell this . project manager : uh i simply think um uh that the new products we are gon na make , uh spef specifically design , are designed for uh younger people , uh so maybe we can focus ourself on the elderly people . and i think we have to um see what requirements we need for those um remote controls . 'cause what you told is the channel selection is important . volume selection , power and teletext . marketing : yes . project manager : okay . um user interface : yeah . marketing : yes . but obviously the board tends to disagree . project manager : no we we have n't voted yet , so user interface : project manager : uh i think teletext can be uh um can be a function as well . but only if uh if it wo n't higher the the cost , because i do n't know if it will be a lot more money to implement teletext as well , but i do n't think it will be a problem . or is teletext a user interface : but um deaf people need uh teletext for uh for subtitles . project manager : yeah . user interface : so it 's marketing : yeah , also . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . so i suggest uh marketing : i think it 'd definitely be a bad idea not to include teletext . user interface : it 's project manager : yeah . is anybody um really against teletext ? no ? just that , that we just keep the teletext . i think that 's a good idea as well , especially for the subtitles . maybe we can make that um another point of advantage in our remote control , if we uh make a k a button ex for example for big subtitles , which is instantly on the remote control . for elderly people they can think , oh i wan na have subtitles , user interface : yeah yeah . project manager : and they push the button and they get the big subtitles . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : uh that 's a good idea . project manager : um so i think teletext can v can be very useful in our advantage . um functionality should be few buttons , you said . i think uh that 's very important we have a few buttons . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so to keep it simple . marketing : but i do n't think that 's really an issue any more 'cause well might be . user interface : if it 's only for televi marketing : but i mean it , if it 's only for tv you 're not gon na need a lot of buttons anyway . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : you need a one to zero button , next channel , previous channel , user interface : yeah . marketing : volume up , volume down , and some teletext buttons but project manager : yeah . but do you need user interface : so we can s we can skip the display , marketing : i think if you if you only l user interface : so uh we do n't need it . project manager : but do you need the buttons for one to zero . maybe c we can user interface : uh marketing : think if you 're gon na include teletext you do . i think many people like to use that . project manager : maybe we can use uh user interface : yeah . marketing : 'cause if you should , if you want to switch from channel one to like thirty five , you do n't wan na push the next channel button thirty five times . user interface : yeah . project manager : no , maybe we can implement the scroll button ? or a joystick like ? there are other ways too . just look if you look at telephones . the sony telephone has a scroll button which is very useful in searching names or user interface : yeah . mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : that 's true but um i do n't think there are many tvs that can switch channels that fast . and so you would need like the tv would need an a function where you can actually view all channels and scroll through it . and i dunno if many channels would do have that . if many tvs have that . industrial designer : yeah . and besides that it 's um if we 're gon na focus on elderly people they 'll have to adapt . they 're not used to using scroll buttons . project manager : that 's right . industrial designer : so perhaps we should s stick to the basic layout . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : the numbers yeah . yeah they can see how much buttons there are going to be on on the display , and if it 's too much we can uh reconsider it . but i think there wo n't be very much buttons . user interface : yeah . project manager : or there do n't have to be a lot . marketing : but i do n't think i think if you 're gon na make a remote control only to operate a tv , you there 's not much you can gain on um having as few buttons as possible . 'cause i think there are pretty many remote controls that can only operate a tv , which already only have the minimum number of buttons . i do n't think there 's much to be gained in that area . project manager : the number of buttons ? i think it 's very important in the in the design . marketing : yeah . project manager : you can make a very fancy design uh with putting the buttons on the right places . and if you have less buttons you can do a lot more with marketing : that is true but i think there 's simply not much to gain on the competition when you when you 're making a remote control only for to operate only the tv . project manager : to operate only the tv yeah . marketing : 'cause if you have a a remote control only to operate a tv there 's simply not a lot of buttons required . there 's not a lot of functions required so most existing remote controls simply do n't have a lot of buttons either . so i think it would be very hard to actually gain on the competition here . project manager : 'kay . so we can marketing : that would that would cost a a big marketing expedition project manager : yeah . that 's right . marketing : which was one of the arguments to make it only for the tv because we did n't have the time to market a lot . project manager : yeah . so you suggest we could better um focus on for example the docking station . user interface : project manager : uh uh like other functions . instead of f of less buttons . marketing : maybe . well yeah i think , mean we obviously need a good way to position all the buttons and but i do n't think we should spend very much time in that . project manager : mm . no . do you think the docking station will uh is allowed in the budget we have ? industrial designer : it should be possible yes . if it 's not too fancy . project manager : 'cause it can be industrial designer : and if the remote stays rather small , it should be possible project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : because i think that 's uh that 's a good advantage point as well . if we have a fancy-looking docking station or very that 's a nice requirement . docking station . marketing : industrial designer : so we 're just gon na focus on the extras ? project manager : i think so . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah i think maybe we should do some research into what elderly people like to have in a project manager : yeah . marketing : like to have extra in a new remote control . project manager : that 's a good point . um you said they easily get lost as well . marketing : yes well fifty percent of the people indicated that remote control tended to get lost . project manager : yeah . so maybe we should implement the audio sign , or something . marketing : yeah that was what i suggested . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like with your key-chain , if you whistle it goes uh it makes a sound . marketing : you have it on project manager : yeah . marketing : you have it 's on some phones too , which have a docking station . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and you just press a button and the phone goes ringing . project manager : yeah . so marketing : so you know where it is . project manager : audio signal should be possible as well . i think it 's not too expensive . uh another point is the lcd screen . um i do n't know if that will rise the cost too much , because industrial designer : y i um i think we 'll have to choose between the docking station or the screen , 'cause project manager : yeah . it will be too much as well . industrial designer : it 's uh marketing : i think since a lot of people indicated that a new remote control is hard to learn , and we 're focusing on elderly people here which tend to have a hard time understanding new devices , it might be a good idea to have just a little screen on it , which would explain a button if you press it . which would tell you what it does . project manager : yeah . marketing : and it would n't have to be touchscreen or a very expensive screen , project manager : based . user interface : okay . yeah . marketing : but project manager : just the lcd . oh just the normal screen . marketing : just a small screen project manager : that 's a good idea . so marketing : with two project manager : some extra info . feedback . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . i think that 's a good idea as well . user interface : yeah . marketing : but i dunno if that would project manager : as the small screen . marketing : that would fit into the costs . project manager : extra button info . i think that should be possible as well . um let 's see what did we say . mm . more . should be fancy to , fancy design , easy to learn . few buttons , we talked about that . docking station , lcd . um general functions yeah . 'kay . and default materials . i think that 's a good idea as well , because um elderly people do n't mind if it 's a titanium cover or just a plastic one . user interface : project manager : so that does n't really matter . so i think we nee marketing : i think probably elderly people would be a little bit more careful with their remote controls than youngsters . project manager : uh let 's um specify the target group . because are we talking about elderly elderly people or people from forty to eighty . because i think what we 're going to design now is for people above sixty , maybe . user interface : mm . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh what do we want ? if we want um a with uh for example the the telephone for elderly people , we can marketing : i think project manager : target the real elderly people . marketing : i think that would be a if we should do something like that it would be a , i think it would be really good for uh for the image of the company . project manager : yeah . marketing : and i think , i think there would be a good market for it . project manager : so that 's the marketing : if we 're able to really bring an innovative product . project manager : now you 're talking about sixty to eighty for example . marketing : yeah the really project manager : yeah . sixty . marketing : but i 'd have to look into that a little more . project manager : okay . and different cultures . are we industrial designer : well i do n't think they have different television sets uh project manager : okay . industrial designer : in uh every country . 'cause project manager : we 've got five minutes left just now . user interface : so 'kay . project manager : small warning . marketing : 'kay . and with uh the little screen in it , which explains the buttons . you could i think we n it would be a lot easier to project manager : should marketing : adapt it to different cultures . project manager : yeah . in different languages , you know . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : or you have to put a language button in it , user interface : right . project manager : but that will be a bit unnecessary i think . user interface : no . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's better to put it on different markets with it all . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . so industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's the the target . uh then a few small things . marketing : project manager : uh okay . i will put the minutes in the project uh project document folder . um what we 're going to do for the next meeting is the industrial designer will do the components concept , user interface designer the user interface concept , and the trend-watching . so just keep in mind the things we 've said about the target group , uh requirements , and the trends which are uh going on . and uh specific instructions will be sent to you by uh the personal coach . so um marketing : 'kay . project manager : i thank you for this meeting . and i think we have a lunch-break now . marketing : that 's good . project manager : so that 's a good thing . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the amendments to project requirements and the following discussion . </s> project manager : uh okay now i hope everybody has a little bit more insight in the functions we all have and what we are doing right now . um i 'm the project manager so i 'm here to mess things up and uh tell you some new uh requirements . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : um that 's , we 've uh got to design a um remote which is only suitable for tv . um that 's because uh it will be too complex user interface : okay . project manager : and the time to market will be too big , if we wan na have it uh for more functions . so it has to be simple . uh another point is we have to skip the teletext , because in the world of uh upcoming internet uh we think teletext is going to be uh a thing of the past . and uh it 's a function we do n't need in our remote control . marketing : project manager : um internet is also mentioned in a function we can use . uh maybe also on televisions it will be available as well . another one is uh the customer is uh forty plus . uh that 's the the market we have to to to target , because we are going to develop a new product which is specially designed for the younger customers . um this is uh a bit pity for the marketing uh expert . marketing : user interface : project manager : because he was uh aiming on the the younger persons . so we have to find a market which is above forty plus uh but which will suit our uh remote control , and the other way round . and we have to be very uh attent in uh putting the corporate image uh in our product . so it has to be visible in our design , in the way our device works . and uh we have to be uh very clear on this point as well . so i suggest let 's have a discussion on the control functions . yeah . marketing : so is there any discussion possible about the new product requirement ? project manager : uh we can see if we can find a way uh between the functions we wan na use and the market we wan na reach with our product . um user interface : mm . marketing : yeah 'cause you 're you 're saying that teletext is gon na be an old feature and it 's not gon na be used anymore anyway pretty soon . and new tvs will have internet access on them . project manager : marketing : but i think if you 're targeting people of forty plus , the chance that they will have a tv with internet access within the next like twenty years is very slim . user interface : yeah . marketing : in addition people indicated that teletext simply was an important feature for the remote control . so i think it 's pretty dumb to put no teletext feature on it . i 'm pretty much against it . project manager : against the no teletext ? marketing : yes . project manager : um marketing : besides that , i think the market for forty plus is like pretty small . but i mean if i s if i see this , it 's i think we 're just gon na go for another project manager : yeah it 's it is user interface : forty project manager : standard remote . marketing : pretty project manager : no i think we can marketing : and not innovative project manager : i think we can do a lot with the design and the simple buttons marketing : remote control . project manager : which were also mentioned . uh if we put a lot of effort in those , we can make a remote control with uh just two or three buttons . or just a remote which is suitable for the market we wan na reach because it is forty percent of the market . user interface : yeah . project manager : and um if you look in holland at the whole generation of forty plus , fifty plus , it it 's the the biggest share of the of the whole population now . marketing : yes but it 's not the biggest part of the market . and besides that , they 're not very critical so i mean they do n't really care what the remote control is like . they 'll just pretty much take the first thing they see and which looks acceptable . project manager : but do n't you think that if we make a remote which is uh typically made for this market , that people think the people think that 's the the device i 've looked for although i did n't realise it . user interface : project manager : so let 's try it . marketing : no . i think that would be the case in the sixteen to forty five age category . because they are critical and they they want to have a fancy remote control . user interface : yeah . marketing : people of forty plus , i mean they want it to work , but as soo as soon as it works it 's okay with them . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think that if we 're if we put our marketing right um we can sell this just like um i do n't know if you 've heard about it in the news , the the elderly mobile phone ? marketing : so project manager : yeah . it 's a big success . industrial designer : yeah if we if we make a remote control just l with that idea in mind , we could make tons of money , i think . project manager : very big success . marketing : i have n't heard of it . project manager : yeah . uh . i think so as well . industrial designer : we do n't have to focus on on on the on the design then but on functionality . we just change our focus on the project , and i think we can uh we can sell this . </s>
<s> what attitude did marketing hold towards the `` no teletext but internet '' requirement when commenting on new project requirements and why ? </s> marketing : so is there any discussion possible about the new product requirement ? project manager : uh we can see if we can find a way uh between the functions we wan na use and the market we wan na reach with our product . um user interface : mm . marketing : yeah 'cause you 're you 're saying that teletext is gon na be an old feature and it 's not gon na be used anymore anyway pretty soon . and new tvs will have internet access on them . project manager : marketing : but i think if you 're targeting people of forty plus , the chance that they will have a tv with internet access within the next like twenty years is very slim . user interface : yeah . marketing : in addition people indicated that teletext simply was an important feature for the remote control . so i think it 's pretty dumb to put no teletext feature on it . i 'm pretty much against it . project manager : against the no teletext ? marketing : yes . project manager : um marketing : besides that , i think the market for forty plus is like pretty small . but i mean if i s if i see this , it 's i think we 're just gon na go for another project manager : yeah it 's it is user interface : forty project manager : standard remote . marketing : pretty project manager : no i think we can </s>
<s> why did marketing disagree with the fancy design requirement proposed by project manager ? </s> project manager : i think we can do a lot with the design and the simple buttons marketing : remote control . project manager : which were also mentioned . uh if we put a lot of effort in those , we can make a remote control with uh just two or three buttons . or just a remote which is suitable for the market we wan na reach because it is forty percent of the market . user interface : yeah . project manager : and um if you look in holland at the whole generation of forty plus , fifty plus , it it 's the the biggest share of the of the whole population now . marketing : yes but it 's not the biggest part of the market . and besides that , they 're not very critical so i mean they do n't really care what the remote control is like . they 'll just pretty much take the first thing they see and which looks acceptable . project manager : but do n't you think that if we make a remote which is uh typically made for this market , that people think the people think that 's the the device i 've looked for although i did n't realise it . user interface : project manager : so let 's try it . marketing : no . i think that would be the case in the sixteen to forty five age category . because they are critical and they they want to have a fancy remote control . user interface : yeah . marketing : people of forty plus , i mean they want it to work , but as soo as soon as it works it 's okay with them . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i think that if we 're if we put our marketing right um we can sell this just like um i do n't know if you 've heard about it in the news , the the elderly mobile phone ? marketing : so project manager : yeah . it 's a big success . industrial designer : yeah if we if we make a remote control just l with that idea in mind , we could make tons of money , i think . project manager : very big success . marketing : i have n't heard of it . project manager : yeah . uh . i think so as well . industrial designer : we do n't have to focus on on on the on the design then but on functionality . we just change our focus on the project , and i think we can uh we can sell this . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about functionality with the elderly as target customers . </s> project manager : uh that the new products we are gon na make , uh spef specifically design , are designed for uh younger people , uh so maybe we can focus ourself on the elderly people . and i think we have to um see what requirements we need for those um remote controls . 'cause what you told is the channel selection is important . volume selection , power and teletext . marketing : yes . project manager : okay . um user interface : yeah . marketing : yes . but obviously the board tends to disagree . project manager : no we we have n't voted yet , so user interface : project manager : uh i think teletext can be uh um can be a function as well . but only if uh if it wo n't higher the the cost , because i do n't know if it will be a lot more money to implement teletext as well , but i do n't think it will be a problem . or is teletext a user interface : but um deaf people need uh teletext for uh for subtitles . project manager : yeah . user interface : so it 's marketing : yeah , also . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . so i suggest uh marketing : i think it 'd definitely be a bad idea not to include teletext . user interface : it 's project manager : yeah . is anybody um really against teletext ? no ? just that , that we just keep the teletext . i think that 's a good idea as well , especially for the subtitles . maybe we can make that um another point of advantage in our remote control , if we uh make a k a button ex for example for big subtitles , which is instantly on the remote control . for elderly people they can think , oh i wan na have subtitles , user interface : yeah yeah . project manager : and they push the button and they get the big subtitles . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : uh that 's a good idea . project manager : um so i think teletext can v can be very useful in our advantage . um functionality should be few buttons , you said . i think uh that 's very important we have a few buttons . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so to keep it simple . marketing : but i do n't think that 's really an issue any more 'cause well might be . user interface : if it 's only for televi marketing : but i mean it , if it 's only for tv you 're not gon na need a lot of buttons anyway . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : you need a one to zero button , next channel , previous channel , user interface : yeah . marketing : volume up , volume down , and some teletext buttons but project manager : yeah . but do you need user interface : so we can s we can skip the display , marketing : i think if you if you only l user interface : so uh we do n't need it . project manager : but do you need the buttons for one to zero . maybe c we can user interface : uh marketing : think if you 're gon na include teletext you do . i think many people like to use that . project manager : maybe we can use uh user interface : yeah . marketing : 'cause if you should , if you want to switch from channel one to like thirty five , you do n't wan na push the next channel button thirty five times . user interface : yeah . project manager : no , maybe we can implement the scroll button ? or a joystick like ? there are other ways too . just look if you look at telephones . the sony telephone has a scroll button which is very useful in searching names or user interface : yeah . mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : that 's true but um i do n't think there are many tvs that can switch channels that fast . and so you would need like the tv would need an a function where you can actually view all channels and scroll through it . and i dunno if many channels would do have that . if many tvs have that . industrial designer : yeah . and besides that it 's um if we 're gon na focus on elderly people they 'll have to adapt . they 're not used to using scroll buttons . project manager : that 's right . industrial designer : so perhaps we should s stick to the basic layout . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : the numbers yeah . yeah they can see how much buttons there are going to be on on the display , and if it 's too much we can uh reconsider it . but i think there wo n't be very much buttons . user interface : yeah . project manager : or there do n't have to be a lot . marketing : but i do n't think i think if you 're gon na make a remote control only to operate a tv , you there 's not much you can gain on um having as few buttons as possible . 'cause i think there are pretty many remote controls that can only operate a tv , which already only have the minimum number of buttons . i do n't think there 's much to be gained in that area . project manager : the number of buttons ? i think it 's very important in the in the design . marketing : yeah . project manager : you can make a very fancy design uh with putting the buttons on the right places . and if you have less buttons you can do a lot more with marketing : that is true but i think there 's simply not much to gain on the competition when you when you 're making a remote control only for to operate only the tv . project manager : to operate only the tv yeah . marketing : 'cause if you have a a remote control only to operate a tv there 's simply not a lot of buttons required . there 's not a lot of functions required so most existing remote controls simply do n't have a lot of buttons either . so i think it would be very hard to actually gain on the competition here . project manager : 'kay . so we can marketing : that would that would cost a a big marketing expedition project manager : yeah . that 's right . marketing : which was one of the arguments to make it only for the tv because we did n't have the time to market a lot . project manager : yeah . so you suggest we could better um focus on for example the docking station . user interface : project manager : uh uh like other functions . instead of f of less buttons . marketing : maybe . well yeah i think , mean we obviously need a good way to position all the buttons and but i do n't think we should spend very much time in that . project manager : mm . no . do you think the docking station will uh is allowed in the budget we have ? industrial designer : it should be possible yes . if it 's not too fancy . project manager : 'cause it can be industrial designer : and if the remote stays rather small , it should be possible project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : because i think that 's uh that 's a good advantage point as well . if we have a fancy-looking docking station or very that 's a nice requirement . docking station . marketing : industrial designer : so we 're just gon na focus on the extras ? project manager : i think so . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah i think maybe we should do some research into what elderly people like to have in a project manager : yeah . marketing : like to have extra in a new remote control . project manager : that 's a good point . um you said they easily get lost as well . marketing : yes well fifty percent of the people indicated that remote control tended to get lost . project manager : yeah . so maybe we should implement the audio sign , or something . marketing : yeah that was what i suggested . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like with your key-chain , if you whistle it goes uh it makes a sound . marketing : you have it on project manager : yeah . marketing : you have it 's on some phones too , which have a docking station . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and you just press a button and the phone goes ringing . project manager : yeah . so marketing : so you know where it is . project manager : audio signal should be possible as well . i think it 's not too expensive . uh another point is the lcd screen . um i do n't know if that will rise the cost too much , because industrial designer : y i um i think we 'll have to choose between the docking station or the screen , 'cause project manager : yeah . it will be too much as well . industrial designer : it 's uh marketing : i think since a lot of people indicated that a new remote control is hard to learn , and we 're focusing on elderly people here which tend to have a hard time understanding new devices , it might be a good idea to have just a little screen on it , which would explain a button if you press it . which would tell you what it does . project manager : yeah . marketing : and it would n't have to be touchscreen or a very expensive screen , project manager : based . user interface : okay . yeah . marketing : but project manager : just the lcd . oh just the normal screen . marketing : just a small screen project manager : that 's a good idea . so marketing : with two project manager : some extra info . feedback . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . i think that 's a good idea as well . user interface : yeah . marketing : but i dunno if that would project manager : as the small screen . marketing : that would fit into the costs . project manager : extra button info . i think that should be possible as well . um let 's see what did we say . mm . more . should be fancy to , fancy design , easy to learn . few buttons , we talked about that . docking station , lcd . um general functions yeah . 'kay . and default materials . i think that 's a good idea as well , because um elderly people do n't mind if it 's a titanium cover or just a plastic one . user interface : project manager : so that does n't really matter . so i think we nee marketing : i think probably elderly people would be a little bit more careful with their remote controls than youngsters . project manager : uh let 's um specify the target group . because are we talking about elderly elderly people or people from forty to eighty . because i think what we 're going to design now is for people above sixty , maybe . user interface : mm . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh what do we want ? if we want um a with uh for example the the telephone for elderly people , we can marketing : i think project manager : target the real elderly people . marketing : i think that would be a if we should do something like that it would be a , i think it would be really good for uh for the image of the company . project manager : yeah . marketing : and i think , i think there would be a good market for it . project manager : so that 's the marketing : if we 're able to really bring an innovative product . project manager : now you 're talking about sixty to eighty for example . marketing : yeah the really project manager : yeah . sixty . marketing : but i 'd have to look into that a little more . project manager : okay . and different cultures . are we industrial designer : well i do n't think they have different television sets uh project manager : okay . industrial designer : in uh every country . 'cause project manager : we 've got five minutes left just now . user interface : so 'kay . project manager : small warning . marketing : 'kay . and with uh the little screen in it , which explains the buttons . you could i think we n it would be a lot easier to project manager : should marketing : adapt it to different cultures . project manager : yeah . in different languages , you know . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : or you have to put a language button in it , user interface : right . project manager : but that will be a bit unnecessary i think . user interface : no . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's better to put it on different markets with it all . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . so industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's the the target . uh then a few small things . </s>
<s> what was the decision of the discussion about button design ? </s> project manager : no , maybe we can implement the scroll button ? or a joystick like ? there are other ways too . just look if you look at telephones . the sony telephone has a scroll button which is very useful in searching names or user interface : yeah . mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : that 's true but um i do n't think there are many tvs that can switch channels that fast . and so you would need like the tv would need an a function where you can actually view all channels and scroll through it . and i dunno if many channels would do have that . if many tvs have that . industrial designer : yeah . and besides that it 's um if we 're gon na focus on elderly people they 'll have to adapt . they 're not used to using scroll buttons . project manager : that 's right . industrial designer : so perhaps we should s stick to the basic layout . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : the numbers yeah . yeah they can see how much buttons there are going to be on on the display , and if it 's too much we can uh reconsider it . but i think there wo n't be very much buttons . user interface : yeah . project manager : or there do n't have to be a lot . marketing : but i do n't think i think if you 're gon na make a remote control only to operate a tv , you there 's not much you can gain on um having as few buttons as possible . 'cause i think there are pretty many remote controls that can only operate a tv , which already only have the minimum number of buttons . i do n't think there 's much to be gained in that area . project manager : the number of buttons ? i think it 's very important in the in the design . marketing : yeah . project manager : you can make a very fancy design uh with putting the buttons on the right places . and if you have less buttons you can do a lot more with marketing : that is true but i think there 's simply not much to gain on the competition when you when you 're making a remote control only for to operate only the tv . project manager : to operate only the tv yeah . marketing : 'cause if you have a a remote control only to operate a tv there 's simply not a lot of buttons required . there 's not a lot of functions required so most existing remote controls simply do n't have a lot of buttons either . so i think it would be very hard to actually gain on the competition here . project manager : 'kay . so we can marketing : that would that would cost a a big marketing expedition project manager : yeah . that 's right . marketing : which was one of the arguments to make it only for the tv because we did n't have the time to market a lot . project manager : yeah . so you suggest we could better um focus on for example the docking station . user interface : project manager : uh uh like other functions . instead of f of less buttons . </s>
<s> why was the docking station taken into consideration and how was its function achieved ? </s> project manager : mm . no . do you think the docking station will uh is allowed in the budget we have ? industrial designer : it should be possible yes . if it 's not too fancy . project manager : 'cause it can be industrial designer : and if the remote stays rather small , it should be possible project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : because i think that 's uh that 's a good advantage point as well . if we have a fancy-looking docking station or very that 's a nice requirement . docking station . marketing : industrial designer : so we 're just gon na focus on the extras ? project manager : i think so . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah i think maybe we should do some research into what elderly people like to have in a project manager : yeah . marketing : like to have extra in a new remote control . project manager : that 's a good point . um you said they easily get lost as well . marketing : yes well fifty percent of the people indicated that remote control tended to get lost . project manager : yeah . so maybe we should implement the audio sign , or something . marketing : yeah that was what i suggested . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like with your key-chain , if you whistle it goes uh it makes a sound . marketing : you have it on project manager : yeah . marketing : you have it 's on some phones too , which have a docking station . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and you just press a button and the phone goes ringing . project manager : yeah . so marketing : so you know where it is . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor b : uh . somebody else should run this . i 'm sick of being the one to sort of go through and say , `` well , what do you think about this ? `` you wan na ? phd d : yeah . phd f : should we take turns ? you want me to run it today ? professor b : yeah . why do n't you run it today ? ok . phd f : ok . ok . um . let 's see , maybe we should just get a list of items things that we should talk about . um , i guess there 's the usual updates , everybody going around and saying , uh , you know , what they 're working on , the things that happened the last week . but aside from that is there anything in particular that anybody wants to bring up for today ? no ? ok . so why do n't we just around and people can give updates . uh , do you want to start , stephane ? phd c : alright . um . well , the first thing maybe is that the p eurospeech paper is , uh , accepted . um . yeah . phd f : this is what what do you , uh what 's in the paper there ? phd c : so it 's the paper that describe basically the , um , system that were proposed for the aurora . phd f : the one that we s we submitted the last round ? phd c : right , yeah . phd d : yeah . phd f : uh - huh . phd c : um yeah . so and the , fff { comment } comments seems from the reviewer are good . so . mmm yeah . phd f : where where 's it gon na be this year ? phd c : it 's , uh , aalborg in denmark . and it 's , phd f : oh , ok . phd c : yeah , september . mmm yeah . then , uh , whhh well , i 've been working on on t mainly on on - line normalization this week . uh , i 've been trying different slightly slightly different approaches . um , the first thing is trying to play a little bit again with the , um , time constant . uh , second thing is , uh , the training of , uh , on - line normalization with two different means , one mean for the silence and one for the speech . um , and so i have two recursions which are controlled by the , um , probability of the voice activity detector . mmm . this actually do n't s does n't seem to help , although it does n't hurt . so . but well , both on - line normalization approach seems equivalent . well , they phd f : are the means pretty different for the two ? phd c : yeah . they can be very different . yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : so do you maybe make errors in different places ? different kinds of errors ? phd c : i did n't look , uh , more closely . um . it might be , yeah . mm - hmm . um . well , eh , there is one thing that we can observe , is that the mean are more different for for c - zero and c - one than for the other coefficients . and yeah . and yeah , it the c - one is there are strange strange thing happening with c - one , is that when you have different kind of noises , the mean for the the silence portion is can be different . and so when you look at the trajectory of c - one , it 's has a strange shape and i was expecting th the s that these two mean helps , especially because of the the strange c - ze c - one shape , uh , which can like , yo you can have , um , a trajectory for the speech and then when you are in the silence it goes somewhere , but if the noise is different it goes somewhere else . so which would mean that if we estimate the mean based on all the signal , even though we have frame dropping , but we do n't frame ev uh , drop everything , but uh , this can hurts the estimation of the mean for speech , and mmm . { comment } but i still have to investigate further , i think . um , a third thing is , um , that instead of t having a fixed time constant , i try to have a time constant that 's smaller at the beginning of the utterances to adapt more quickly to the r something that 's closer to the right mean . t t um yeah . and then this time constant increases and i have a threshold that professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : well , if it 's higher than a certain threshold , i keep it to this threshold to still , uh , adapt , um , the mean when if the utterance is , uh , long enough to to continue to adapt after , like , one second professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd c : or mmm . uh , well , this does n't help neither , but this does n't hurt . so , well . it seems pretty phd f : was n't there some experiment you were gon na try where you did something differently for each , um , uh i do n't know whether it was each mel band or each , uh , um , fft bin or someth there was something you were gon na uh , { comment } some parameter you were gon na vary depending on the frequency . i do n't know if that was phd c : i guess it was i do n't know . no . u maybe it 's this this idea of having different on - line normalization , um , tunings for the different mfcc 's . phd f : for each , uh professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : but mm - hmm . phd f : yeah . i i thought , morgan , you brought it up a couple meetings ago . and then it was something about , uh , some and then somebody said `` yeah , it does seem like , you know , c - zero is the one that 's , you know , the major one `` or , uh , s i ca n't remember exactly what it was now . phd c : mmm . yeah . there uh , actually , yeah . s um , it 's very important to normalize c - zero and much less to normalize the other coefficients . and , um , actu uh , well , at least with the current on - line normalization scheme . and we i think , we kind of know that normalizing c - one does n't help with the current scheme . and and yeah . in my idea , i i was thinking that the the the reason is maybe because of these funny things that happen between speech and silence which have different means . um yeah . but maybe it 's not so so easy to professor b : um , i i really would like to suggest looking , um , a little bit at the kinds of errors . i know you can get lost in that and go forever and not see too much , but sometimes , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but but , um , just seeing that each of these things did n't make things better may not be enough . it may be that they 're making them better in some ways and worse in others , phd c : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : or increasing insertions and decreasing deletions , or or , um , um , you know , helping with noisy case but hurting in quiet case . and if you saw that then maybe you it would something would occur to you of how to deal with that . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . alright . mmm . yeah . w um , so that 's it , i think , for the on - line normalization . um yeah . i 've been playing a little bit with some kind of thresholding , and , mmm , as a first experiment , i think i yeah . well , what i did is t is to take , um to measure the average no , the maximum energy of s each utterance and then put a threshold well , this for each mel band . then put a threshold that 's fifteen db below well , uh , a couple of db below this maximum , professor b : mm - hmm . mmm . phd c : and actually it was not a threshold , it was just adding noise . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : so i was adding a white noise energy , uh , that 's fifteen db below the maximum energy of the utterance . and yeah . when we look at at the , um , mfcc that result from this , they are a lot more smoother . um , when we compare , like , a channel zero and channel one utterance um , so a clean and , uh , the same noisy utterance well , there is almost no difference between the cepstral coefficients of the two . um . and yeah . and the result that we have in term of speech recognition , actually it 's not it 's not worse , it 's not better neither , but it 's , um , kind of surprising that it 's not worse because basically you add noise that 's fifteen db just fifteen db below the maximum energy . grad a : sorry . phd c : and at least phd f : so why does that m smooth things out ? i do n't i do n't understand that . professor b : well , there 's less difference . right ? phd c : it 's i think , it 's whitening this the portion that are more silent , professor b : cuz it 's phd c : as you add a white noise that are has a very high energy , it whitens everything phd f : huh . oh , ok . phd c : and and the high - energy portion of the speech do n't get much affected anyway by the other noise . and as the noise you add is the same is the shape , it 's also the same . professor b : yeah . phd c : so they have the trajectory are very , very similar . and and professor b : so , i mean , again , if you trained in one kind of noise and tested in the same kind of noise , you 'd you know , given enough training data you do n't do b do badly . the reason that we d that we have the problems we have is because it 's different in training and test . even if the general kind is the same , the exact instances are different . and and phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so when you whiten it , then it 's like you the the only noise to to first order , the only th noise that you have is white noise and you 've added the same thing to training and test . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so it 's , uh phd f : so would that be similar to , like , doing the smoothing , then , over time or ? phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : well , it 's a kind of smoothing , phd c : i think it 's i think it 's different . professor b : but phd c : it 's it 's something that yeah , that affects more or less the silence portions because phd f : mm - hmm . phd c : well , anyway , the sp the portion of speech that ha have high energy are not ch a lot affected by the noises in the aurora database . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : if if you compare th the two shut channels of speechdat - car during speech portion , it 's n n n the mfcc are not very different . they are very different when energy 's lower , like during fricatives or during speech pauses . and , professor b : yeah , but you 're still getting more recognition errors , phd c : uh professor b : which means that the differences , even though they look like they 're not so big , are are hurting your recognition . right ? phd c : yeah . so it distort the speech . right . professor b : yeah . phd f : so performance went down ? phd c : no . it did n't . but yeah . so , but in this case i i really expect that maybe the the two these two stream of features , they are very different . i mean , and maybe we could gain something by combining them professor b : well , the other thing is that you just picked one particular way of doing it . phd c : or professor b : uh , i mean , first place it 's fifteen db , uh , down across the utterance . and maybe you 'd want to have something that was a little more adaptive . secondly , you happened to pick fifteen db and maybe twenty 'd be better , phd c : yeah . professor b : or or twelve . phd c : yeah . right . phd f : so what was the what was the threshold part of it ? was the threshold , uh , how far down ? professor b : yeah . well , he yeah , he had to figure out how much to add . so he was looking he was looking at the peak value . phd f : uh - huh . professor b : right ? and then phd c : uh - huh . phd f : and and so what 's ho i do n't understand . how does it go ? if it if if the peak value 's above some threshold , then you add the noise ? or if it 's below s phd c : i systematically { comment } add the noise , but the , um , noise level is just some kind of threshold below the peak . phd f : oh , oh . i see . i see . professor b : yeah . phd c : um . yeah . which is not really noise , actually . it 's just adding a constant to each of the mel , uh , energy . phd f : mm - hmm . phd c : to each of the mel filter bank . yeah . phd f : i see . phd c : so , yeah , it 's really , uh , white noise . i th professor b : yeah . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so then afterwards a log is taken , and that 's so sort of why the the little variation tends to go away . phd c : mm - hmm . um . yeah . so may well , the this threshold is still a factor that we have to look at . and i do n't know , maybe a constant noise addition would would be fine also , or um professor b : or or not constant but but , uh , varying over time in fact is another way to go . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yeah . um professor b : were you using the the normalization in addition to this ? i mean , what was the rest of the system ? phd c : um yeah . it was it was , uh , the same system . mm - hmm . it was the same system . mmm . oh , yeah . a third thing is that , um , i play a little bit with the , um finding what was different between , um , and there were a couple of differences , like the lda filters were not the same . um , he had the france telecom blind equalization in the system . um , the number o of mfcc that was were used was different . you used thirteen and we used fifteen . well , a bunch of differences . and , um , actually the result that he he got were much better on ti - digits especially . so i 'm kind of investigated to see what was the main factor for this difference . and it seems that the lda filter is is was hurting . um , so when we put s some noise compensation the , um , lda filter that that 's derived from noisy speech is not more anymore optimal . and it makes a big difference , um , on ti - digits trained on clean . uh , if we use the the old lda filter , i mean the lda filter that was in the proposal , we have , like , eighty - two point seven percent recognition rate , um , on noisy speech when the system is trained on clean speech . but and when we use the filter that 's derived from clean speech we jumped so from eighty - two point seven to eighty - five point one , which is a huge leap . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : um . yeah . so now the results are more similar , and i do n't i will not , i think , investigate on the other differences , which is like the number of mfcc that we keep and other small things that we can i think optimize later on anyway . professor b : sure . but on the other hand if everybody is trying different kinds of noise suppression things and so forth , it might be good to standardize on the piece that we 're not changing . right ? so if there 's any particular reason to ha pick one or the other , i mean which which one is closer to what the proposal was that was submitted to aurora ? are they they both ? well , i mean phd c : i think yeah . i think th th uh , the new system that i tested is , i guess , closer because it does n't have it have less of of france telecom stuff , phd d : you mean the phd c : i phd d : the whatever you , uh , tested with recently . right ? phd c : mmm ? yeah . phd d : yeah ? professor b : well , no , i i 'm i yeah , you 're trying to add in france telecom . phd c : but , we professor b : tell them about the rest of it . like you said the number of filters might be different or something . right ? or phd d : the number of cepstral coefficients is what ? phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . so , i mean , i think we 'd wan na standardize there , would n't we ? phd c : yeah , yeah . professor b : so , sh you guys should pick something phd d : yeah . professor b : and well , all th all three of you . phd d : yeah . phd c : i think we were gon na work with with this or this new system , or with phd d : uh , so the the right now , the the system that is there in the what we have in the repositories , with uses fifteen . phd c : so right . yeah . phd d : yeah , so yeah , so yep . phd c : but we will use the the lda filters f derived from clean speech . well , yeah , actually it 's it 's not the the lda filter . phd d : yeah , yeah . so phd c : it 's something that 's also short enough in in latency . phd d : yeah . well . yeah . so , we have n't w we have been always using , uh , fifteen coefficients , phd c : yeah . phd d : not thirteen ? phd c : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . well , uh , that 's something 's um . yeah . then professor b : i think as long as you guys agree on it , it does n't matter . phd d : mmm professor b : i think we have a maximum of sixty , uh , features that we 're allowed . so . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . ma - maybe we can i mean , at least , um , i 'll t s run some experiments to see whether once i have this { comment } noise compensation to see whether thirteen and fifteen really matters or not . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : never tested it with the compensation , but without , uh , compensation it was like fifteen was s slightly better than thirteen , phd c : yeah . phd d : so that 's why we stuck to thirteen . phd c : yeah . and there is there is also this log energy versus c - zero . phd d : sorry , fifteen . yeah , the log energy versus c - zero . phd c : well . w w if if phd d : uh , that 's that 's the other thing . i mean , without noise compensation certainly c - zero is better than log energy . be - i mean , because the there are more , uh , mismatched conditions than the matching conditions for testing . phd c : mm - hmm . phd d : you know , always for the matched condition , you always get a slightly better performance for log energy than c - zero . phd c : mm - hmm . phd d : but not for i mean , for matched and the clean condition both , you get log energy i mean you get a better performance with log energy . phd c : mm - hmm . phd d : well , um , maybe once we have this noise compensation , i do n't know , we have to try that also , whether we want to go for c - zero or log energy . phd c : mm - hmm . phd d : we can see that . phd c : yeah . phd f : so do you have more , stephane , or ? phd c : uh , that 's it , i think . mmm . phd f : do you have anything , morgan , or ? professor b : uh , no . i 'm just , you know , being a manager this week . so . phd f : how about you , barry ? grad a : um , still working on my my quals preparation stuff . um , so i 'm i 'm thinking about , um , starting some , uh , cheating experiments to , uh , determine the , um the relative effectiveness of , um , some intermediate categories that i want to classify . so , for example , um , if i know where voicing occurs and everything , um , i would do a phone um , phone recognition experiment , um , somehow putting in the the , uh the perfect knowledge that i have about voicing . so , um , in particular i was thinking , um , in in the hybrid framework , just taking those lna files , and , um , setting to zero those probabilities that , um that these phones are not voicing . so say , like , i know this particular segment is voicing , um , i would say , uh , go into the corresponding lna file and zonk out the the posteriors for , um , those phonemes that , um , are not voiced , phd f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : and then see what kinds of improvements i get . and so this would be a useful thing , um , to know in terms of , like , which which , um which of these categories are are good for , um , speech recognition . phd f : hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : so , that 's i hope to get those , uh those experiments done by by the time quals come come around in july . phd f : so do you just take the probabilities of the other ones and spread them out evenly among the the remaining ones ? grad a : yeah . i i i was thinking ok , so just set to set to some really low number , the the non - voiced , um , phones . phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : right ? and then renormalize . right . yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . phd f : cool . that will be really interesting to see , you know . so then you 're gon na feed the those into some standard recognizer . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : uh , wh are you gon na do digits grad a : yeah , m um , well , i 'm gon na f work with timit phd f : or ? with timit . ok . grad a : timit uh , phone recognition with timit . phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : and , um phd f : oh , so then you 'll feed those sorry . so where do the outputs of the net go into if you 're doing phone recognition ? grad a : oh . um , the outputs of the net go into the standard , h um , icsi hybrid , um , recognizer . so maybe , um , chronos phd f : an - and you 're gon na the you 're gon na do phone recognition with that ? grad a : or phone recognition . right , right . phd f : ok , ok . i see . grad a : so . and , uh , another thing would be to extend this to , uh , digits or something where i can look at whole words . phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : and i would be able to see , uh , not just , like , phoneme events , but , um , inter - phoneme events . so , like , this is from a stop to to a vo a vocalic phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : segment . you know , so something that is transitional in nature . phd f : right . grad a : yeah . phd f : cool . great . grad a : so that 's that 's it . phd f : uh ok . grad a : yeah . phd f : um let 's see , i have n't done a whole lot on anything related to this this week . i 've been focusing mainly on meeting recorder stuff . so , um , i guess i 'll just pass it on to dave . grad g : uh , ok . well , in my lunch talk last week i i said i 'd tried phase normalization and gotten garbage results using that l um , long - term mean subtraction approach . it turned out there was a bug in my matlab code . so i tried it again , um , and , um , the results were were better . i got intelligible speech back . but they still were n't as good as just subtracting the magnitude the log magnitude means . and also i 've been talking to , um , andreas and thilo about the , um , smartkom language model and about coming up with a good model for , um , far mike use of the smartkom system . so i 'm gon na be working on , um , implementing this mean subtraction approach in the far - mike system for the smartkom system , i mean . and , um , one of the experiments we 're gon na do is , um , we 're gon na , um , train the a broadcast news net , which is because that 's what we 've been using so far , and , um , adapt it on some other data . um , an - andreas wants to use , um , data that resembles read speech , like these digit readings , because he feels that the smartkom system interaction is not gon na be exactly conversational . phd f : mm - hmm . grad g : s so actually i was wondering , how long does it take to train that broadcast news net ? professor b : the big one takes a while . yeah . that takes two , three weeks . grad g : two , three weeks . professor b : so but , you know , uh , you can get i do n't know if you even want to run the big one , uh , um , in the in the final system , cuz , you know , it takes a little while to run it . so , um , you can scale it down by i 'm sorry , it was two , three weeks for training up for the large broadcast news test set training set . i do n't know how much you 'd be training on . the full ? uh , i so if you trained on half as much and made the net , uh , uh , half as big , then it would be one fourth the amount of time and it 'd be nearly as good . so . yeah . also , i guess we had we 've had these , uh , little di discussions i guess you ha have n't had a chance to work with it too much about about , uh uh , uh m other ways of taking care of the phase . so , i mean , i i guess that was something i could say would be that we 've talked a little bit about grad g : mm - hmm . professor b : you just doing it all with complex arithmetic and , uh and not not , uh , doing the polar representation with magnitude and phase . but it looks like there 's ways that one could potentially just work with the complex numbers and and and in principle get rid of the effects of the average complex spectrum . but grad g : and , um , actually , regarding the phase normalization so i did two experiments , and one is so , phases get added , modulo two pi , and because you only know the phase of the complex number t t to a value modulo two pi . and so i thought at first , um , that , uh , what i should do is unwrap the phase because that will undo that . um , but i actually got worse results doing that unwrapping using the simple phase unwrapper that 's in matlab than i did not unwrapping at all . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . p so . grad g : and that 's all i have to say . professor b : yeah . so i 'm i 'm still hopeful that that i mean , we we do n't even know if the phase is something the average phase is something that we do want to remove . i mean , maybe there 's some deeper reason why it is n't the right thing to do . but , um , at least in principle it looks like there 's there 's , uh , a couple potential ways to do it . one one being to just work with the complex numbers , um , and , uh in rectangular kind of coordinates . and the other is to , uh , do a taylor series well . so you work with the complex numbers and then when you get the spectrum the average complex spectrum um , actually divide it out , um , as opposed to taking the log and subtracting . so then , um , um , you know , there might be some numerical issues . we do n't really know that . the other thing we talked a little bit about was taylor series expansion . and , um , uh , actually i was talking to dick karp about it a little bit , and and and , since i got thinking about it , and and , uh , so one thing is that y you 'd have to do , i think , uh we may have to do this on a whiteboard , but i think you have to be a little careful about scaling the numbers that you 're taking the complex numbers that you 're taking the log of because the taylor expansion for it has , you know , a square and a cube , and and so forth . and and so if if you have a a number that is modulus , you know , uh , very different from one it should be right around one , if it 's cuz it 's a expansion of log one one minus epsilon or o is is one plus epsilon , or is it one plus ? well , there 's an epsilon squared over two and an epsilon cubed over three , and so forth . so if epsilon is bigger than one , then it diverges . so you have to do some scaling . but that 's not a big deal cuz it 's the log of of k times a complex number , then you can just that 's the same as log of k plus log of the complex number . uh , so there 's converges . but . phd f : hmm . ok . how about you , sunil ? phd d : so , um , i 've been , uh , implementing this , uh , wiener filtering for this aurora task . and , uh , i i actually thought it was it was doing fine when i tested it once . i it 's , like , using a small section of the code . and then i ran the whole recognition experiment with italian and i got , like , worse results than not using it . then i so , i 've been trying to find where the problem came from . and then it looks like i have some problem in the way there is some some very silly bug somewhere . and , ugh ! i i mean , i uh , it actually i it actually made the whole thing worse . i was looking at the spectrograms that i got and it 's , like w it 's it 's very horrible . like , when i professor b : i i missed the v i 'm sorry , i was i was distracted . i missed the very first sentence . so then , i 'm a little lost on the rest . phd d : oh , i mean professor b : what what what ? phd d : oh , yeah . i actually implemented the wiener f f fil filtering as a module and then tested it out separately . professor b : yeah , i see . oh , ok . phd d : and it it it gave , like i just got the signal out and it it was ok . so , i plugged it in somewhere and then i mean , it 's like i had to remove some part and then plugging it in somewhere . and then i in that process i messed it up somewhere . so . so , it was real i mean , i thought it was all fine and then i ran it , and i got something worse than not using it . so , i was like i 'm trying to find where the m m problem came , professor b : uh - huh . phd d : and it seems to be , like , somewhere some silly stuff . and , um , the other thing , uh , was , uh , uh well , hynek showed up one suddenly on one day and then i was t talking wi professor b : right . yeah . as as he is wont to do . yeah . phd d : uh , yeah . so i was actually that day i was thinking about d doing something about the wiener filtering , and then carlos matter of stuff . and then he showed up and then i told him . and then he gave me a whole bunch of filters what carlos used for his , uh , uh , thesis and then that was something which came up . and then , um so , uh , i 'm actually , uh , thinking of using that also in this , uh , w wiener filtering because that is a m modified wiener filtering approach , where instead of using the current frame , it uses adjacent frames also in designing the wiener filter . so instead of designing our own new wiener filters , i may just use one of those carlos filters in in this implementation professor b : mm - hmm . phd d : and see whether it it actually gives me something better than using just the current f current frame , which is in a way , uh , something like the smoothing the wiener filter professor b : mm - hmm . phd d : but @ @ s so , i do n't know , i was h i 'm i 'm i 'm , like that so that is the next thing . once this i once i sort this pro uh , problem out maybe i 'll just go into that also . and the the other thing was about the subspace approach . so , um , i , like , plugged some groupings for computing this eigen uh , uh , uh , s values and eigenvectors . so just i just @ @ some small block of things which i needed to put together for the subspace approach . and i 'm in the process of , like , building up that stuff . and , um , uh yeah . i guess yep . i guess that 's it . and , uh , th th that 's where i am right now . so . phd f : oh . how about you , carmen ? phd e : mmm . i 'm working with vts . um , i do several experiment with the spanish database first , only with vts and nothing more . not vad , no lda , nothing more . phd f : what what is vts again ? phd d : new phd e : eh , vectorial taylor series . phd f : oh , yes . phd e : to remove the noise too . phd f : right , right . i think i ask you that every single meeting , do n't i ? phd e : what ? phd f : i ask you that question every meeting . phd e : yeah . professor b : so , that 'd be good from for analysis . phd e : if well professor b : it 's good to have some , uh , cases of the same utterance at different different times . phd f : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd f : `` what is vts ? `` phd e : vts . i 'm sor well , um , the question is that well . remove some noise but not too much . and when we put the m m the , em , vad , the result is better . and we put everything , the result is better , but it 's not better than the result that we have without vts . no , no . professor b : i see . so that @ @ { comment } given that you 're using the vad also , the effect of the vts is not so far phd e : is not . professor b : do you how much of that do you think is due to just the particular implementation and how much you 're adjusting it ? or how much do you think is intrinsic to ? phd e : pfft . i do n't know because phd c : are you still using only the ten first frame for noise estimation or ? or i ? phd e : uh , i do the experiment using only the f onl eh , to use on only one fair estimation of the noise . phd c : yeah . hmm . phd e : and also i did some experiment , uh , doing , um , a lying estimation of the noise . and , well , it 's a little bit better but not n phd c : maybe you have to standardize this thing also , noise estimation , because all the thing that you are testing use a different they all need some some noise noise spectra phd e : mmm . no , i do that two t did two time . phd c : but they use every all use a different one . professor b : i have an idea . if if , uh , uh , y you 're right . i mean , each of these require this . um , given that we 're going to have for this test at least of uh , boundaries , what if initially we start off by using known sections of nonspeech for the estimation ? phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : right ? s so , e um , phd c : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : first place , i mean even if ultimately we would n't be given the boundaries , uh , this would be a good initial experiment to separate out the effects of things . i mean , how much is the poor you know , relatively , uh , unhelpful result that you 're getting in this or this or this is due to some inherent limitation to the method for these tasks and how much of it is just due to the fact that you 're not accurately finding enough regions that that are really n noise ? phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : um . so maybe if you tested it using that , you 'd have more reliable stretches of nonspeech to do the estimation from and see if that helps . phd e : yeah . another thing is the , em the codebook , the initial codebook . that maybe , well , it 's too clean and professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : cuz it 's a i do n't know . the methods if you want , you c i can say something about the method . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . in the because it 's a little bit different of the other method . well , we have if this if this is the noise signal , uh , in the log domain , we have something like this . now , we have something like this . and the idea of these methods is to n given a , um how do you say ? i will read because it 's better for my english . i i given is the estimate of the pdf of the noise signal when we have a , um , a statistic of the clean speech and an statistic of the noisy speech . and the clean speech the statistic of the clean speech is from a codebook . mmm ? this is the idea . well , like , this relation is not linear . the methods propose to develop this in a vectorial taylor series approximation . professor b : i i 'm actually just confused about the equations you have up there . so , uh , the top equation is is is phd e : no , this in the it 's this is the log domain . i i must to say that . professor b : which is which is the log domain ? phd e : is the t is egual { comment } is equal to , uh , log of professor b : and but y is what ? y of the spectrum phd e : uh , this this is this professor b : or ? phd e : and this is this . professor b : no , no . the top y is what ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : is that power spectrum ? phd e : uh , this is the noisy speech . phd c : p s this professor b : no , is that power spectrum ? is it ? phd c : yeah . i guess it 's the power spectrum of noisy speech . phd e : yeah . it 's the power spectrum . professor b : oh , ok . phd c : yeah . and professor b : so that 's uh phd e : this is the noisy yeah , it 's of the value professor b : yeah , ok . so this it 's the magnitude squared or something . phd e : yeah . professor b : ok , so you have power spectrum added there and down here you have you you put the depends on t , but b all of this is just you just mean phd e : w o yeah . it 's the same . professor b : you just mean the log of the of the one up above . phd e : yeah . professor b : and , uh , so that is x times , phd c : mm - hmm . phd d : one one plus n by x . phd e : yeah , maybe but , n well , y we can expre we can put this expression professor b : x times one plus , uh , n uh , n n n minus x ? phd e : the yeah . professor b : and then , uh so that 's log of x plus log of one plus , uh phd e : and the noise signal . professor b : well . is that right ? log of phd d : one plus n by x . phd e : well , mmm professor b : i actually do n't see how you get that . uh . phd e : well , if we apply the log , we have e is n phd d : uh , and phd e : uh , log e is equal , oh , to log of x plus n . professor b : yeah . phd e : and , well , phd d : and , log of phd e : uh , we can say that e is equal to log of , um , exponential of x plus exponential of n . professor b : uh phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : that does n't follow . phd d : well , if e restricts it is y phd e : well , this is this is in the ti the time domain . well , we have that , um we have first that , for example , x is equal , uh well . this is the frequency domain professor b : yeah . phd e : and we can put u that n the log domain log of x omega , but , well , in the time domain we have an exponential . no ? no ? oh , maybe it 's i am i 'm problem . professor b : yeah . i mean , just never mind what they are . uh , it 's just if x and n are variables right ? phd d : what is , uh ? professor b : the the the log of x plus n is not the same as the log of e to the x plus e to the n . phd e : yeah . but this i well , i do n't well , uh , professor b : maybe we can take it off - line , phd e : maybe professor b : but i i do n't know . phd e : i i can do this incorrectly . well , the expression that appear in the in the paper , is , uh phd d : the log the taylor series expansion for log one plus n by x is phd c : is it the first - order expansion ? phd e : is x phd d : yeah , the first one . phd c : yeah , i guess . phd d : yeah . professor b : ok . yeah . cuz it does n't just follow what 's there . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd c : uh - huh . professor b : it has to be some , uh , taylor series phd d : y yeah . if if you take log x into log one plus n by x , and then expand the log one plus n by x into taylor series phd c : yeah . phd e : now , this is the and then phd c : yeah , but the the second expression that you put is the first - order expansion of the nonlinear relation between phd e : not exactly . no , no , no . it 's not the first space . well , we have pfft , uh , em well , we can put that x is equal i is equal to log of , uh , mmm professor b : that does n't follow . phd e : well , we can put , uh , this ? professor b : that i mean , that the f top one does not imply the second one . because cuz the log of a sum is not the same as th phd e : the top ? professor b : i mean , as phd e : yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . professor b : yeah . phd e : but we can uh , we we know that , for example , the log of e plus b is equal to log of e plus log to b . professor b : right . phd e : and we can say here , it i professor b : right . so you could s phd c : what is that ? phd e : and we can , uh , put this inside . professor b : yeah . phd e : and then we can , uh , professor b : n no , phd e : you know professor b : but phd e : yeah . professor b : i do n't see how you get the second expression from the top one . the i mean , just more generally here , if you say `` log of , um , a plus b `` , the log of log of a plus b is not or a plus b is not the , um , log of e to the a plus e to the b . phd e : no , no , no , no , no , no , no . this not . professor b : right ? and that 's what you seem to be saying . phd e : no . no . it 's not . but this is the same oh . professor b : right ? cuz you cuz you up here you have the a plus b phd e : no . i say if i apply log , i have , uh , log of e is equal to log of , uh in this side , is equal to log of x professor b : plus n . phd e : plus n . professor b : right . right . phd e : right . professor b : and then how do you go from there to the ? phd e : this is right . and then if i apply exponential , to have here e professor b : look . ok , so let 's i mean , c equals a plus b , phd c : it 's log o of capital y . yeah , right . professor b : and then phd c : capital y . phd e : yeah . phd d : x . x . this is x , inside . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : right . phd e : we have this , no ? professor b : yeah . that one 's right . phd e : mm - hmm . phd d : one and phd e : s uh , i th we can put here the set transformation . professor b : oh . i see . i see . ok , i understand now . alright , thanks . phd e : yeah . in this case , well , we can put here a y . professor b : ok . so , yeah . it 's just by definition that the individual that the , uh so , capital x is by definition the same as e to the little x because she 's saying that the little x is is the , uh is the log . alright . phd e : now we can put this . professor b : yeah . alright . phd e : and here we can multiply by x . professor b : i think these things are a lot clearer when you can use fonts different fonts there phd e : oh , yes . professor b : so you know which is which . but i i under i understand what you mean now . phd e : yeah , yeah . that 's true . that 's true . but this this is correct ? professor b : sure . phd e : and now i can do it , uh pfff ! i can put log of ex plus log professor b : oh . yes . i understand now . and that 's where it comes from . phd e : and this is professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . right . professor b : right . phd e : now it 's correct . professor b : right . ok . thanks . phd e : well . the idea well , we have fixed this equa professor b : ok . so now once you get that that one , then you then you do a first or second - order , or something , taylor series expansion of this . phd e : yeah . this is another linear relation that this to develop this in vector s taylor series . phd c : yeah , sure . professor b : right . phd e : mm - hmm . and for that , well , the goal is to obtain , um est estimate a pdf for the noisy speech when we have a a statistic for clean speech and for the noisy speech . mmm ? and when w the way to obtain the pdf for the noisy speech is well , we know this statistic and we know the noisy st well , we can apply first order of the vector st taylor series of the of the of well , the order that we want , increase the complexity of the problem . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and then when we have a expression , uh , for the mean and variance of the noisy speech , we apply a technique of minimum mean - square estimation professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : to obtain the expected value of the clean speech given the this statistic for the noisy speech professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : the statistic for clean speech and the statistic of the noisy speech . this only that . but the idea is that phd c : and the the model of clean speech is a codebook . right ? phd e : u yeah . we have our codebook with different density gaussian . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : we can expre we can put that the pdf { comment } for the clean test , probability of the clean speech is equal to professor b : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so , um , how h how much in in the work they reported , how much noisy speech did you need to get , uh , good enough statistics for the to get this mapping ? phd e : i do n't know exactly . professor b : yeah . phd e : i i need to s professor b : yeah . phd e : i do n't know exactly . professor b : cuz i think what 's certainly characteristic of a lot of the data in this test is that , um , you do n't have the the training set may not be a a great estimator for the noise in the test set . sometimes it is and sometimes it 's not . phd e : yeah . i the clean speech the codebook for clean speech , i am using timit . and i have now , uh , sixty - four gaus - gaussian . professor b : uh - huh . and what are you using for the noisy ? y y doing that strictly phd e : of the noise i estimate the noises wi professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : well , for the noises i only use one gaussian . professor b : and and you and you train it up entirely from , uh , nonspeech sections in the test ? phd e : uh , yes . the first experiment that i do it is solely to calculate the , mmm well , this value professor b : yeah . phd e : uh , the compensation of the dictionary o one time using the the noise at the f beginning of the sentence . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : this is the first experiment . professor b : yeah . phd e : and i fix this for all the all the sentences . uh , because well , the vts methods in fact the first thing that i do is to to obtain , uh , an expression for e probability e expression of of e . that mean that the vts mmm , with the vts we obtain , uh well , we we obtain the means for each gaussian { comment } and the variance . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : this is one . eh , this is the composition of the dictionary . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : this one thing . and the other thing that this with these methods is to , uh , obtain to calculate this value . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : because we can write uh , we can write that the estimation of the clean speech is equal at an expected value of the clean speech conditional to , uh , the noise signal the probability f of the the statistic of the clean speech and the statistic of the noise . professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : this is the methods that say that we 're going obtain this . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and we can put that this is equal to the estimated value of e minus a function that conditional to e to the t to the noise signal . well , this is this function is the the term after develop this , the term that we we take . give px and , uh , p the noise . phd d : x k c noise . phd e : and i can put that this is equal to the noise signal minus well , i put before this name , uh and i can calculate this . professor b : what is the first variable in that probability ? phd e : uh , this is the gaussian . professor b : no , no . i 'm sorry . in in the one you pointed at . what 's that variable ? phd e : v uh , this is the phd d : weak . so probably it it would do that . phd e : like this , phd c : it 's one mixture of the model . right ? phd e : but conditional . no , it 's condition it 's not exactly this . it 's modify . uh , if we have clean speech we have the dictionary for the clean speech , we have a probability f of our our weight for each gaussian . no . and now , this weight is different now because it 's conditional . and this i need to to calcu i know this professor b : uh - huh . phd e : and i know this because this is from the dictionary that you have . professor b : uh - huh . phd e : i need to calculate this . and for calculate this , i have an i i can develop an expression that is phd d : it 's overlapping . phd e : that . i can calculate i can i calculated this value , uh , with the statistic of the noisy speech that i calculated before with the vts approximation . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and well , normalizing . and i know everything . uh , with the , nnn when i develop this in s taylor taylor series , i ca n't , um , calculate the mean and the variance of the for each of the gaussian of the dictionary for the noisy speech . now . and this is fixed . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : if i never do an estimat a newer estimation of the noise , this mean as mean and the variance are fixed . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and for each s uh , frame of the speech the only thing that i need to do is to calculate this in order to calculate the estimation of the clean speech given our noisy speech . professor b : so , i 'm i 'm not following this perfectly but , um , i are you saying that all of these estimates are done using , um , estimates of the probability density for the noise that are calculated only from the first ten frames ? and never change throughout anything else ? phd e : yeah . never cha this is one of the approximations that i am doing . professor b : per per per utterance , or per ? phd e : per utterance . yes . professor b : per utterance . ok . phd e : per utterance . yes . professor b : so it 's done it 's done new for each new utterance . phd e : and th professor b : so this changes the whole mapping for every utterance . phd e : yeah . it 's not yeah . yeah . it 's fixed , the dictionary . and the other estimation is when i do the uh on - line estimation , i change the means and variance of th for the noisy speech professor b : yeah ? phd e : each time that i detect noise . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : i do it uh again this develop . estimate the new mean and the variance of the noisy speech . and with th with this new s new mean and variance i estimate again this . professor b : so you estimated , uh , f completely forgetting what you had before ? uh , or is there some adaptation ? phd e : um , no , no , no . it 's not completely no , it 's i am doing something like an adaptation of the noise . professor b : ok . now do we know , either from their experience or from yours , that , uh , just having , uh , two parameters , the the mean and variance , is enough ? yeah . i mean , i know you do n't have a lot of data to estimate with , but but , uh , um phd e : i estimate mean and variance for each one of the gaussian of the codebook . professor b : no , i 'm talking about the noise . there 's only one gaussian . phd e : um . well , only one i am only using only one . professor b : right . phd e : i do n't know i professor b : and you and and it 's , uh , uh right , it 's only it 's only one wait a minute . this is what 's the dimensionality of the gaussian ? this is phd e : uh , it 's in after the mel filter bank . professor b : so this is twenty or something ? phd e : twenty - three . professor b : twenty ? so it 's yeah . so it 's actually forty numbers that you 're getting . yeah , maybe maybe you do n't have a phd e : uh , the original paper say that only one gaussian for the noise . professor b : well , yeah . but , i mean , no no paper is is a bible , phd e : yeah , maybe is n't the right thing . professor b : you know . this is this is , uh phd e : yeah , yeah , yeah . professor b : the question is , um , whether it would be helpful , i particularly if you used if you had more so , suppose you did this is almost cheating . it certainly is n't real - time . but if y suppose you use the real boundaries that that you were in fact were given by the vad and so forth or i i guess we 're gon na be given even better boundaries than that . and you look you take all o all of the nonspeech components in an utterance , so you have a fair amount . do you benefit from having a better model for the noise ? that would be another question . phd e : maybe . professor b : so first question would be to what extent i are the errors that you 're still seeing based on the fact that you have poor boundaries for the , uh , uh , nonspeech ? and the second question might be , given that you have good boundaries , could you do better if you used more parameters to characterize the noise ? um . also another question might be um , they are doing they 're using first term only of the vector taylor series ? phd e : yeah . professor b : um , if you do a second term does it get too complicated cuz of the nonlinearity ? phd e : yeah . it 's quite complicated . professor b : yeah , ok . no , i wo n't ask the next question then . phd e : oh , it 's it 's the for me it 's the first time that i am working with vts . professor b : yeah . no , it 's interesting . phd e : uh professor b : uh , w we have n't had anybody work with it before , so it 's interesting to get your get your feedback about it . phd e : it 's another type of approximation because i because it 's a statistic statistic approximation to remove the noise . i do n't know . professor b : right . phd f : great . ok . well , i guess we 're about done . um , so some of the digit forms do n't have digits . uh , we ran out there were some blanks in there , so not everybody will be reading digits . but , um , i guess you 've got some . right , morgan ? professor b : i have some . phd f : so , why do n't you go ahead and start . and i think it 's just us down here at this end that have them . professor b : uh , ok . phd d : s so , we switch off with this phd f : whenever you 're ready . phd d : or n ? phd f : uh , leave it on , phd d : no . ok . professor b : they prefer to have them on phd f : and the professor b : just so that they 're continuing to get the distant , uh , information . phd f : yeah . phd d : ok . ok . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on the eurospeech paper and on-line normalization </s> professor b : uh . somebody else should run this . i 'm sick of being the one to sort of go through and say , `` well , what do you think about this ? `` you wan na ? phd d : yeah . phd f : should we take turns ? you want me to run it today ? professor b : yeah . why do n't you run it today ? ok . phd f : ok . ok . um . let 's see , maybe we should just get a list of items things that we should talk about . um , i guess there 's the usual updates , everybody going around and saying , uh , you know , what they 're working on , the things that happened the last week . but aside from that is there anything in particular that anybody wants to bring up for today ? no ? ok . so why do n't we just around and people can give updates . uh , do you want to start , stephane ? phd c : alright . um . well , the first thing maybe is that the p eurospeech paper is , uh , accepted . um . yeah . phd f : this is what what do you , uh what 's in the paper there ? phd c : so it 's the paper that describe basically the , um , system that were proposed for the aurora . phd f : the one that we s we submitted the last round ? phd c : right , yeah . phd d : yeah . phd f : uh - huh . phd c : um yeah . so and the , fff { comment } comments seems from the reviewer are good . so . mmm yeah . phd f : where where 's it gon na be this year ? phd c : it 's , uh , aalborg in denmark . and it 's , phd f : oh , ok . phd c : yeah , september . mmm yeah . then , uh , whhh well , i 've been working on on t mainly on on - line normalization this week . uh , i 've been trying different slightly slightly different approaches . um , the first thing is trying to play a little bit again with the , um , time constant . uh , second thing is , uh , the training of , uh , on - line normalization with two different means , one mean for the silence and one for the speech . um , and so i have two recursions which are controlled by the , um , probability of the voice activity detector . mmm . this actually do n't s does n't seem to help , although it does n't hurt . so . but well , both on - line normalization approach seems equivalent . well , they phd f : are the means pretty different for the two ? </s>
<s> what did phd c think about on-line normalization ? </s> phd c : mmm yeah . then , uh , whhh well , i 've been working on on t mainly on on - line normalization this week . uh , i 've been trying different slightly slightly different approaches . um , the first thing is trying to play a little bit again with the , um , time constant . uh , second thing is , uh , the training of , uh , on - line normalization with two different means , one mean for the silence and one for the speech . um , and so i have two recursions which are controlled by the , um , probability of the voice activity detector . mmm . this actually do n't s does n't seem to help , although it does n't hurt . so . but well , both on - line normalization approach seems equivalent . well , they phd f : are the means pretty different for the two ? phd c : yeah . they can be very different . yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : so do you maybe make errors in different places ? different kinds of errors ? phd c : i did n't look , uh , more closely . um . it might be , yeah . mm - hmm . um . well , eh , there is one thing that we can observe , is that the mean are more different for for c - zero and c - one than for the other coefficients . and yeah . and yeah , it the c - one is there are strange strange thing happening with c - one , is that when you have different kind of noises , the mean for the the silence portion is can be different . and so when you look at the trajectory of c - one , it 's has a strange shape and i was expecting th the s that these two mean helps , especially because of the the strange c - ze c - one shape , uh , which can like , yo you can have , um , a trajectory for the speech and then when you are in the silence it goes somewhere , but if the noise is different it goes somewhere else . so which would mean that if we estimate the mean based on all the signal , even though we have frame dropping , but we do n't frame ev uh , drop everything , but uh , this can hurts the estimation of the mean for speech , and mmm . { comment } but i still have to investigate further , i think . um , a third thing is , um , that instead of t having a fixed time constant , i try to have a time constant that 's smaller at the beginning of the utterances to adapt more quickly to the r something that 's closer to the right mean . t t um yeah . and then this time constant increases and i have a threshold that professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : well , if it 's higher than a certain threshold , i keep it to this threshold to still , uh , adapt , um , the mean when if the utterance is , uh , long enough to to continue to adapt after , like , one second professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd c : or mmm . uh , well , this does n't help neither , but this does n't hurt . so , well . it seems pretty phd f : was n't there some experiment you were gon na try where you did something differently for each , um , uh i do n't know whether it was each mel band or each , uh , um , fft bin or someth there was something you were gon na uh , { comment } some parameter you were gon na vary depending on the frequency . i do n't know if that was phd c : i guess it was i do n't know . no . u maybe it 's this this idea of having different on - line normalization , um , tunings for the different mfcc 's . phd f : for each , uh professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : but mm - hmm . phd f : yeah . i i thought , morgan , you brought it up a couple meetings ago . and then it was something about , uh , some and then somebody said `` yeah , it does seem like , you know , c - zero is the one that 's , you know , the major one `` or , uh , s i ca n't remember exactly what it was now . phd c : mmm . yeah . there uh , actually , yeah . s um , it 's very important to normalize c - zero and much less to normalize the other coefficients . and , um , actu uh , well , at least with the current on - line normalization scheme . and we i think , we kind of know that normalizing c - one does n't help with the current scheme . and and yeah . in my idea , i i was thinking that the the the reason is maybe because of these funny things that happen between speech and silence which have different means . um yeah . but maybe it 's not so so easy to professor b : um , i i really would like to suggest looking , um , a little bit at the kinds of errors . i know you can get lost in that and go forever and not see too much , but sometimes , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but but , um , just seeing that each of these things did n't make things better may not be enough . it may be that they 're making them better in some ways and worse in others , phd c : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : or increasing insertions and decreasing deletions , or or , um , um , you know , helping with noisy case but hurting in quiet case . and if you saw that then maybe you it would something would occur to you of how to deal with that . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . alright . mmm . yeah . w um , so that 's it , i think , for the on - line normalization . um yeah . i 've been playing a little bit with some kind of thresholding , and , mmm , as a first experiment , i think i yeah . well , what i did is t is to take , um to measure the average no , the maximum energy of s each utterance and then put a threshold well , this for each mel band . then put a threshold that 's fifteen db below well , uh , a couple of db below this maximum , professor b : mm - hmm . mmm . phd c : and actually it was not a threshold , it was just adding noise . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : so i was adding a white noise energy , uh , that 's fifteen db below the maximum energy of the utterance . and yeah . when we look at at the , um , mfcc that result from this , they are a lot more smoother . um , when we compare , like , a channel zero and channel one utterance um , so a clean and , uh , the same noisy utterance well , there is almost no difference between the cepstral coefficients of the two . um . and yeah . and the result that we have in term of speech recognition , actually it 's not it 's not worse , it 's not better neither , but it 's , um , kind of surprising that it 's not worse because basically you add noise that 's fifteen db just fifteen db below the maximum energy . grad a : sorry . phd c : and at least phd f : so why does that m smooth things out ? i do n't i do n't understand that . professor b : well , there 's less difference . right ? phd c : it 's i think , it 's whitening this the portion that are more silent , professor b : cuz it 's phd c : as you add a white noise that are has a very high energy , it whitens everything phd f : huh . oh , ok . phd c : and and the high - energy portion of the speech do n't get much affected anyway by the other noise . and as the noise you add is the same is the shape , it 's also the same . professor b : yeah . phd c : so they have the trajectory are very , very similar . and and professor b : so , i mean , again , if you trained in one kind of noise and tested in the same kind of noise , you 'd you know , given enough training data you do n't do b do badly . the reason that we d that we have the problems we have is because it 's different in training and test . even if the general kind is the same , the exact instances are different . and and phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so when you whiten it , then it 's like you the the only noise to to first order , the only th noise that you have is white noise and you 've added the same thing to training and test . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so it 's , uh phd f : so would that be similar to , like , doing the smoothing , then , over time or ? phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : well , it 's a kind of smoothing , phd c : i think it 's i think it 's different . professor b : but phd c : it 's it 's something that yeah , that affects more or less the silence portions because phd f : mm - hmm . phd c : well , anyway , the sp the portion of speech that ha have high energy are not ch a lot affected by the noises in the aurora database . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : if if you compare th the two shut channels of speechdat - car during speech portion , it 's n n n the mfcc are not very different . they are very different when energy 's lower , like during fricatives or during speech pauses . and , professor b : yeah , but you 're still getting more recognition errors , phd c : uh </s>
<s> what did the professor think about the difference between means of silence and speech ? </s> professor b : um , i i really would like to suggest looking , um , a little bit at the kinds of errors . i know you can get lost in that and go forever and not see too much , but sometimes , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but but , um , just seeing that each of these things did n't make things better may not be enough . it may be that they 're making them better in some ways and worse in others , phd c : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : or increasing insertions and decreasing deletions , or or , um , um , you know , helping with noisy case but hurting in quiet case . and if you saw that then maybe you it would something would occur to you of how to deal with that . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . alright . mmm . yeah . w um , so that 's it , i think , for the on - line normalization . um yeah . i 've been playing a little bit with some kind of thresholding , and , mmm , as a first experiment , i think i yeah . well , what i did is t is to take , um to measure the average no , the maximum energy of s each utterance and then put a threshold well , this for each mel band . then put a threshold that 's fifteen db below well , uh , a couple of db below this maximum , professor b : mm - hmm . mmm . phd c : and actually it was not a threshold , it was just adding noise . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : so i was adding a white noise energy , uh , that 's fifteen db below the maximum energy of the utterance . and yeah . when we look at at the , um , mfcc that result from this , they are a lot more smoother . um , when we compare , like , a channel zero and channel one utterance um , so a clean and , uh , the same noisy utterance well , there is almost no difference between the cepstral coefficients of the two . um . and yeah . and the result that we have in term of speech recognition , actually it 's not it 's not worse , it 's not better neither , but it 's , um , kind of surprising that it 's not worse because basically you add noise that 's fifteen db just fifteen db below the maximum energy . grad a : sorry . phd c : and at least phd f : so why does that m smooth things out ? i do n't i do n't understand that . professor b : well , there 's less difference . right ? phd c : it 's i think , it 's whitening this the portion that are more silent , professor b : cuz it 's phd c : as you add a white noise that are has a very high energy , it whitens everything phd f : huh . oh , ok . phd c : and and the high - energy portion of the speech do n't get much affected anyway by the other noise . and as the noise you add is the same is the shape , it 's also the same . professor b : yeah . phd c : so they have the trajectory are very , very similar . and and professor b : so , i mean , again , if you trained in one kind of noise and tested in the same kind of noise , you 'd you know , given enough training data you do n't do b do badly . the reason that we d that we have the problems we have is because it 's different in training and test . even if the general kind is the same , the exact instances are different . and and phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so when you whiten it , then it 's like you the the only noise to to first order , the only th noise that you have is white noise and you 've added the same thing to training and test . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so it 's , uh phd f : so would that be similar to , like , doing the smoothing , then , over time or ? phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : well , it 's a kind of smoothing , phd c : i think it 's i think it 's different . professor b : but phd c : it 's it 's something that yeah , that affects more or less the silence portions because phd f : mm - hmm . phd c : well , anyway , the sp the portion of speech that ha have high energy are not ch a lot affected by the noises in the aurora database . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : if if you compare th the two shut channels of speechdat - car during speech portion , it 's n n n the mfcc are not very different . they are very different when energy 's lower , like during fricatives or during speech pauses . and , professor b : yeah , but you 're still getting more recognition errors , phd c : uh </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on quals and phase normalization </s> phd f : how about you , barry ? grad a : um , still working on my my quals preparation stuff . um , so i 'm i 'm thinking about , um , starting some , uh , cheating experiments to , uh , determine the , um the relative effectiveness of , um , some intermediate categories that i want to classify . so , for example , um , if i know where voicing occurs and everything , um , i would do a phone um , phone recognition experiment , um , somehow putting in the the , uh the perfect knowledge that i have about voicing . so , um , in particular i was thinking , um , in in the hybrid framework , just taking those lna files , and , um , setting to zero those probabilities that , um that these phones are not voicing . so say , like , i know this particular segment is voicing , um , i would say , uh , go into the corresponding lna file and zonk out the the posteriors for , um , those phonemes that , um , are not voiced , phd f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : and then see what kinds of improvements i get . and so this would be a useful thing , um , to know in terms of , like , which which , um which of these categories are are good for , um , speech recognition . phd f : hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : so , that 's i hope to get those , uh those experiments done by by the time quals come come around in july . phd f : so do you just take the probabilities of the other ones and spread them out evenly among the the remaining ones ? grad a : yeah . i i i was thinking ok , so just set to set to some really low number , the the non - voiced , um , phones . phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : right ? and then renormalize . right . yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . phd f : cool . that will be really interesting to see , you know . so then you 're gon na feed the those into some standard recognizer . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : uh , wh are you gon na do digits grad a : yeah , m um , well , i 'm gon na f work with timit phd f : or ? with timit . ok . grad a : timit uh , phone recognition with timit . phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : and , um phd f : oh , so then you 'll feed those sorry . so where do the outputs of the net go into if you 're doing phone recognition ? grad a : oh . um , the outputs of the net go into the standard , h um , icsi hybrid , um , recognizer . so maybe , um , chronos phd f : an - and you 're gon na the you 're gon na do phone recognition with that ? grad a : or phone recognition . right , right . phd f : ok , ok . i see . grad a : so . and , uh , another thing would be to extend this to , uh , digits or something where i can look at whole words . phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : and i would be able to see , uh , not just , like , phoneme events , but , um , inter - phoneme events . so , like , this is from a stop to to a vo a vocalic phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : segment . you know , so something that is transitional in nature . phd f : right . grad a : yeah . phd f : cool . great . grad a : so that 's that 's it . phd f : uh ok . grad a : yeah . phd f : um let 's see , i have n't done a whole lot on anything related to this this week . i 've been focusing mainly on meeting recorder stuff . so , um , i guess i 'll just pass it on to dave . grad g : uh , ok . well , in my lunch talk last week i i said i 'd tried phase normalization and gotten garbage results using that l um , long - term mean subtraction approach . it turned out there was a bug in my matlab code . so i tried it again , um , and , um , the results were were better . i got intelligible speech back . but they still were n't as good as just subtracting the magnitude the log magnitude means . and also i 've been talking to , um , andreas and thilo about the , um , smartkom language model and about coming up with a good model for , um , far mike use of the smartkom system . so i 'm gon na be working on , um , implementing this mean subtraction approach in the far - mike system for the smartkom system , i mean . and , um , one of the experiments we 're gon na do is , um , we 're gon na , um , train the a broadcast news net , which is because that 's what we 've been using so far , and , um , adapt it on some other data . um , an - andreas wants to use , um , data that resembles read speech , like these digit readings , because he feels that the smartkom system interaction is not gon na be exactly conversational . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about phase normalization ? </s> professor b : the big one takes a while . yeah . that takes two , three weeks . grad g : two , three weeks . professor b : so but , you know , uh , you can get i do n't know if you even want to run the big one , uh , um , in the in the final system , cuz , you know , it takes a little while to run it . so , um , you can scale it down by i 'm sorry , it was two , three weeks for training up for the large broadcast news test set training set . i do n't know how much you 'd be training on . the full ? uh , i so if you trained on half as much and made the net , uh , uh , half as big , then it would be one fourth the amount of time and it 'd be nearly as good . so . yeah . also , i guess we had we 've had these , uh , little di discussions i guess you ha have n't had a chance to work with it too much about about , uh uh , uh m other ways of taking care of the phase . so , i mean , i i guess that was something i could say would be that we 've talked a little bit about grad g : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did grad a think about the experiments grad a was running ? </s> grad a : and then see what kinds of improvements i get . and so this would be a useful thing , um , to know in terms of , like , which which , um which of these categories are are good for , um , speech recognition . phd f : hmm . mm - hmm . grad a : so , that 's i hope to get those , uh those experiments done by by the time quals come come around in july . phd f : so do you just take the probabilities of the other ones and spread them out evenly among the the remaining ones ? grad a : yeah . i i i was thinking ok , so just set to set to some really low number , the the non - voiced , um , phones . phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : right ? and then renormalize . right . yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . phd f : cool . that will be really interesting to see , you know . so then you 're gon na feed the those into some standard recognizer . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : uh , wh are you gon na do digits grad a : yeah , m um , well , i 'm gon na f work with timit phd f : or ? with timit . ok . grad a : timit uh , phone recognition with timit . phd f : mm - hmm . grad a : and , um phd f : oh , so then you 'll feed those sorry . so where do the outputs of the net go into if you 're doing phone recognition ? grad a : oh . um , the outputs of the net go into the standard , h um , icsi hybrid , um , recognizer . so maybe , um , chronos </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : i call this meeting to order . welcome to meeting number 22 of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . a reminder to all members that in order to avoid issues with sound , members participating in person should not also be connected to the video conference . for those joining via video conference , i would like to remind you that , when speaking , you should be on the same channel as the language you are speaking . as usual , please direct your remarks through the chair . i understand we do n't have any ministerial announcements today , so we 'll proceed to presenting petitions . i would like to remind members that any petition presented during a meeting of the special committee must have already been certified by the clerk of petitions . for members participating in person , we ask that they please come and drop the signed certificate off at the table once the petition is presented . the first petition will be presented by ms.may . ms. elizabeth may ( saanichgulf islands , gp ) : mr . chair , it 's an honour to rise in meeting number 22 of the covid-19 committee , otherwise known as something like the house of commons . i 'm here to present two petitions containing hundreds of signatures on the issue of the treatment of falun gong practitioners by the people 's republic of china , particularly the practice that 's alleged of involuntary organ harvesting . the petitioners ask the government of canada to condemn this practice and to publicly call for an end to the persecution of falun gong in the people 's republic of china . the second petition is from residents throughout saanichgulf islands concerned about what was , at the time this petition was submitted , a future problem . it remains an issue , and i present it on behalf of petitioners who wish the government of canada not to put public funds into purchasing or maintaining the trans mountain pipeline or towards any expansion of the pipeline . the chair : next we 'll go to ms. kwan . ms. jenny kwan ( vancouver east , ndp ) : mr . chair , i rise to table two petitions . the first petition deals with the covid-19 situation . the petitioners note the pandemic is having a devastating impact on many canadians nationwide , especially those who have low to modest income , small business gig workers , freelancers , artists , film industry workers , non-salaried workers and individuals on fixed incomes such as seniors and those on disability . it further notes that rent , mortgage and utility payments are due at the end of each month , putting countless canadians at risk of losing their housing . it is paramount there be safe self-isolation opportunities for all individuals in this country . to that end , the petitioners are calling for the government to immediately enact a nationwide rent freeze , eviction freeze , mortgage freeze and utility freeze , enforce mortgage deferrals for homeowners without penalty or interest charges from financial institutions and provide direct assistance in the form of a monthly , universal , direct payment of $ 2,000 per month for all , with an additional $ 250 per child immediately . the second petition deals with the trans mountain pipeline expansion . these petitioners join the hundreds of thousands of people who are opposed to the expansion . trans mountain , in building the pipeline , brings massive environmental and economic risk with no substantial benefit to british columbia or to local residents . approximately 40,000 barrels of oil have already leaked from existing kinder morgan pipelines , including two major spills in burnaby since 2007 . i might note , mr . chair , that just this past weekend there was yet another spill to the tune of 1,195 barrels here in british columbia . there is no known scientific technology to clean up the bitumen when there is a spill , and the number of tankers would go from eight to 34 per month into the burrard inlet . it puts at risk many residential neighbourhoods and the traditional territories of at least 15 first nations . the chair : may i interrupt for a moment , ms. kwan . i want to remind all members in the house that when presenting a petition , the idea is to be as concise as possible . ms. kwan , i 'll let you wrap up , please . ms. jenny kwan : thank you , mr . chair . the petitioners are calling for the government to immediately act to prevent this new oil pipeline from proceeding through british columbia . the chair : thank you . we 'll now go to mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis ( sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , cpc ) : mr . chair , i have four petitions to present today . the first petition reflects the outrage of my constituents at the ever-expanding order in council from the government banning more and more firearms . in particular , the petitioners highlight the failure of the government to act on the issue of illegal guns . the petitioners note that virtually all violent crimes committed in canada , including the recent shooting in nova scotia , involve illegal firearms in the hands of those who are already not permitted to possess them . the petition has two asks . first of all , it asks that we reverse the order in council banning certain firearms , but also that we propose measures that will effectively address the illegal use of firearms by criminals while respecting the rights of law-abiding citizens . it also asks that we ensure that substantial changes to firearms laws in future actually be made by parliament , not by the government acting in an unaccountable manner . the second petition deals with bill c-8 , which is the government 's bill around conversion therapy . the petitioners support efforts to ban conversion therapy . they express concern about problems in the wording of the definition used in the legislation . they 're asking the government to support amendments to fix the definition to address the issue of conversion therapy and ensure that the definition is correct and does n't criminalize certain forms of counselling that individuals may voluntarily enter into . the third petition is regarding bill s-204 , a bill in the senate that seeks to make it a criminal offence for a person to go abroad to receive an organ without consent , dealing especially with the horrific practice of forced organ harvesting and trafficking in china . the petitioners are supportive of bill s-204 and want to see it move forward . the final petition is with respect to bill c-7 . there 's been much discussion in this house about the need to do better in terms of long-term care . rather than working to do better in long-term care , unfortunately we 've seen the government removing vital safeguards in the area of euthanasia . i think our focus should be on assisting life rather than removing safeguards that are required in association with the euthanasia regime . the petitioners are particularly concerned about the government 's plan to remove a 10-day reflection period that normally takes place . that period can already be waived under certain circumstances , but bill c-7 proposes to remove it entirely as well as reduce the number of witnesses involved . the petitioners are quite concerned about what 's going on in bill c-7 and call for it to be stopped or amended . the chair : presenting petitions . we 'll proceed to statements by members . we 'll start off with mr. manly . mr. paul manly ( nanaimoladysmith , gp ) : mr . chair , we are in the midst of a global pandemic and an economic shock . recent events have ripped open the wound of systemic racism in our country . racialized and marginalized communities have been disproportionally affected by the pandemic . thousands of seniors in long-term care facilities have died . it is clear that we need system change . in the past , governments have bailed out banks and corporations because they were too big to fail . it is time to bail out humanity and the planet . no one will be immune from the threat of climate change and mass extinction . both are the result of the exploitation of the natural world in the name of the economy . humans created the economy . we can choose to change it . we must protect our environment or perish . covid-19 has demonstrated that together we can take courageous action for the common good . we need to do the same for the climate crisis , because humanity and our planet are too big to fail . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. spengemann . mr. sven spengemann ( mississaugalakeshore , lib . ) : mr. speaker , today marks world elder abuse awareness day . underestimated and under-reported , elder abuse exists across the world . at risk of neglect and assault , many of the most vulnerable older persons reside in our long-term care facilities . they are the seniors who have built our country and shaped our communities , who have shown us resilience , courage and selflessness , who have made us stronger , and whose work and teachings continue to inspire us . they are parents and grandparents , brothers and sisters , friends and mentors . we have not been there for them in the same way they 've been there for us throughout their lives . the canadian forces report , alongside the climbing disproportionate death toll in our long-term care facilities , has reconfirmed the ugly , indefensible reality of elder abuse and neglect in canada . in my community , we mourn the deaths of 68 seniors from one long-term care facility alone , camilla care . we must make the same unwavering commitment to older persons as they have shown to us . we must protect and uphold their human rights . we must do better . the chair : before proceeding , i just want to bring up to the members in the background that we want to keep it as simple and as parliamentary as possible in keeping it neutral . we 'll now move to mr. barrett . mr. michael barrett ( leedsgrenvillethousand islands and rideau lakes , cpc ) : during these trying times , the residents of leedsgrenvillethousand islands and rideau lakes have risen to the challenge . they 've made sacrifices and gone above and beyond to make the lives of their neighbours better and to keep our communities safe . it would be impossible to list everyone who has emerged as a community hero , but i 'd like to highlight a few , like lily , an eight-year-old from elgin who raised funds for her local food bank by building and selling squirrel picnic tables , and louise boardman from spencerville who 's making masks for long-term care facilities and selling others in support of the breast cancer action centre . the knights of columbus in prescott raised funds and are distributing some $ 27,000 in support of charitable groups throughout the region . the knights of columbus in kemptville are working overtime operating the local food bank . who can forget our top-notch health care workers like hannah and mary at the brockville covid-19 testing centre ? it is the people of leedsgrenvillethousand islands and rideau lakes that make it so great . to everyone working to make a difference and to all of our essential workers , thank you . the chair : next is mr. anandasangaree . mr. gary anandasangaree ( scarboroughrouge park , lib . ) : mr . chair , the indian act enshrined racism into canadian law in 1876 , and , through residential schools , the child welfare system , our legal system and our police , we criminalized and tore apart indigenous peoples . the deaths of chantel moore and rodney levi and the assault on chief allan adam are recent examples of systemic racism within the rcmp . sadly , the rcmp leadership has failed to acknowledge this reality and its root causes . these same systems negatively impact black canadians . anti-black racism has resulted in more young black men being jailed , children being streamed or excluded from schools and negative police interaction due to profiling . black lives matter . no single canadian is responsible for the prevalence of systemic racism ; we all are . collectively we build institutions that discriminate based on race . it is now time to reimagine and rework our institutions , starting with our police , to ensure that all canadians can achieve their truest potential . the chair : ms.larouche , you have the floor . ms. andranne larouche ( shefford , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . june15 is world elder abuse awareness day . i want to remind members of the link between abuse and the problems of economic dependency among seniors . improving their purchasing power means reducing the risk of them falling victim to abusive people . that 's why the increase in the old age security benefit and the guaranteed income supplement must be extended beyond the pandemic . in three weeks , our seniors will receive their first cheque , when they should be receiving their second . a date must also be announced for the new horizons for seniors program , which helps several groups develop projects to break the isolation of seniors . in closing , i would like to mention the organization justice alternative et mdiation that during the pandemic , along with other organizations in shefford , has set up the project une histoire pour la tienne , which also serves to mark this day . it 's a virtual meeting between young people and seniors , allowing them to exchange some inspiring life experiences . since age prejudice is very much present , i applaud this project , which aims to make us understand each other better and judge each other less . the chair : we 'll now continue with mr. sangha . mr. ramesh sangha ( brampton centre , lib . ) : mr . chair , in the time of this terrible crisis affecting all canadians , when we are all thinking about how best to deal with it , let 's all think about the people around us . let 's show our representation not only to those in the sector of sanctioned workers , but also to all those canadians who day by day stand up and make a difference . every day i am proud of the reactions of canadians to this crisis . i want to acknowledge and celebrate all the contributions made by the people of brampton centre , all religious institutions , civil society and community organizations like knights table in my riding . we are all standing together to fight covid-19 . let 's continue working hard with that same spirit to get positive results out . thank you very much . the chair : i will proceed to mr. ruff . mr. alex ruff ( brucegreyowen sound , cpc ) : mr . chair , whether graduating from elementary school , high school , georgian college or graduating from colleges or universities across the country , i am proud of the accomplishments of all the graduates across brucegreyowen sound . i would also like to congratulate and thank all the teachers and parents who have adapted to teaching online or from home and who have supported these graduates over the course of their academic careers . i 'd like to extend special congratulations to cameron lovell , who just graduated from grade eight , as well as to neebeesh and neebin elliott , originally from the nawash unceded first nation on the bruce peninsula , who will be headed to michigan state university , and to jared lumley from owen sound , who just graduated from my alma mater , the royal military college of canada . the college motto of truth , duty , valour is something all canadians should aspire to live by . i wish all the best to these graduates on their next adventures . i and canada can not wait to see how their dreams and goals impact and change the world . i congratulate brucegreyowen sound graduates . the chair : we 'll now go to mr.cormier . mr. serge cormier ( acadiebathurst , lib . ) : today i pay tribute to richardlosier , an entrepreneur , visionary and builder who died on june9 , 2020 , surrounded by his family . mr.losier is a giant in the acadian peninsula business community . in1968 , he co-founded st.isidore asphalte , a company that now has more than 200employees . he also launched many other businesses over the years . he was unifying and generous , a philanthropist who cared about young people and never missed an opportunity to improve their lives . i met mr.losier when i was 14years old , and i can say that he has been a positive influence in my life . every time i met him , he gave me a lot of advice and encouragement , which i 've never forgotten . mr.losier 's legacy to his community is invaluable . his commitment remains an example for all of us to follow . mr.losier now joins his wife , nolla . i offer my most sincere condolences to his children , richard jr. , ronald , nathalie , caroline and stphane , and to his family and friends . rest in peace , mr.losier . you will be greatly missed . thank you for everything you 've done for our region . the chair : we will now go to ms. dabrusin . ms. julie dabrusin ( torontodanforth , lib . ) : hello from my community in east end toronto . people talk about how a city the size of toronto can be cold , but that 's far from the truth in my community . i want to give a shout-out to our teachers , like mr. wong of earl grey senior public school , who delivered home-baked cookies and handwritten notes to all of his students , or monsieur steve , who 's offering online french classes , or the teachers of riverdale collegiate , who paraded through our streets to celebrate our graduates . our local michael garron hospital put out a call for community members to sew masks and received over 60,000 masks , including those made by lisa tancre of chartwell avondale retirement residence . michelle beaton organized a front window scavenger hunt to entertain children and their families . restaurants , even while facing adversity , have been generously donating food , like the members of the leslieville bia or mezes . there are so many more stories of generosity that i could share , but i 'm out of time . i thank everyone who has stepped up . we all appreciate all of their hard work . the chair : we will now go to ms. sahota . ms. jag sahota ( calgary skyview , cpc ) : mr . chair , on saturday night , calgarians , particularly those in the northeast , in my riding of calgary skyview , witnessed a devastating storm , the likes of which i have not seen in my lifetime . homes , vehicles , community buildings and structures suffered significant damage due to large hail , floods and high winds . people acted quickly to seek shelter . i 'm so grateful that there have been no reports of personal injury or loss of life . i went around the community yesterday to survey the damage . it is extensive . my heart aches for those who have been impacted by the storm in an already incredibly difficult time , but we are resilient . we know that in the coming weeks there will be a lot of cleanup required , both to personal property and in the community . i know my constituents , and we will help one another get through this together . i will work hard to do everything i can to help rebuild this community . the chair : mr.serr , you have the floor . mr. marc serr ( nickel belt , lib . ) : thank you , mr.chair . i 'd like to express my sincere gratitude to the people of west nippissing who organized pride activities to celebrate the lgbtq community in june . this week , we are also celebrating national public service week . i thank the public servants for their dedication to the nickel belt community and the valley east and rayside-balfour areas . the chair : next is mr. saroya . mr. bob saroya ( markhamunionville , cpc ) : mr . chair , when covid-19 began spreading across ontario , markham , like many other communities , was unprepared . our front-line health care workers did not have enough personal protective equipment to do their jobs safely . when markham residents heard about these shortages , my office was flooded with calls from people who had ppe and wanted to donate . since then my office has been able to deliver tens of thousands of ppe supplies to front-line health care workers and five masks to each family in need . this pandemic has shown that no matter what the challenge is , the markham community will overcome it . today , i would like to thank the front-line health care workers who are doing incredible work . i would also like to thank all those who have helped in markham 's hour of need . the chair : i understand we had a bit of a glitch there . i 'm sorry . with the pause , we thought that was the end of it . mr.serr , i would ask you to continue . i understand you started to switch languages . please continue . you have 30seconds . mr. marc serr : thank you . i 'm switching to english now . thank you to our nurses , doctors , pharmacists , cashiers , janitors . thank you to various retail workers and first responders dealing with covid-19 . you keep our communities safe and healthy , and you feed us . your dedication and sacrifice are greatly appreciated . as we start to see local businesses reopen , it is important for all of us to remember to follow best practices outlined by local public health . our front-line workers deserve our respect . it is important for all of us to respect social distancing , to protect all workers and their families . together we can remain strong and united as we continue to face this challenge together . the chair : again , my apologies for skipping over there , but now we 'll to to ms. mcleod . mrs. cathy mcleod ( kamloopsthompsoncariboo , cpc ) : mr . chair , in commemoration of italian heritage month , i would like to pay tribute to the colombo lodge and italian cultural centre in kamloops , british columbia . the colombo lodge was founded in 1914 and is an integral part of our community . recently they began colombo cares take-home dinners with proceeds distributed to different non-profit organizations throughout the region . last month they very generously gave away hundreds of dinners to royal inland hospital staff and paramedics for their tireless work throughout the pandemic . in their own words they say , colombo lodge is very proud of the italians that have made kamloops their home . community members of italian ancestrypast and presenthave helped and continue to help kamloops prosper as a giving , welcoming and inclusive community . personally , i want to thank all members for their friendship and generosity over the years . our community is forever grateful for their kindness . the chair : we 'll now proceed to mr. harris . mr. jack harris ( st. john 's east , ndp ) : mr . chair , many newfoundlanders and labradorians are facing a serious financial crisis . most people with disabilities are waiting to be included in the liberals ' promised program . fish plant workers will need support to avoid a disastrous year . many small businesses do n't qualify for programs . municipalities need emergency help to meet the crisis . people are worried about what will happen when the cerb runs out in two weeks ' time , and the coming tourism season looks very grim . the province itself is in serious financial crisis due to the pandemic and the decline in oil prices . the federal government must overhaul and enhance the fiscal stabilization program to help newfoundlanders and labradorians and other oil-producing provinces through this crisis . both the province and the oil and gas industry players have committed to net zero emissions by 2050 . this is a challenge and an opportunity to transition to a sustainable energy future , but it will require significant investment and support by government to keep the industry strong and make this a just transition for workers . much has been done . much more needs to be done . the chair : ms.gaudreau , you have the floor . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau ( laurentideslabelle , bq ) : mr.chair , all 44elected municipal officials in the riding of laurentideslabelle and i have sent a letter to the government asking that cellular and high-speed internet networks be made available to all . the crisis has accelerated the demonstration of the need for these networks in daily life . the territorial complexity of the laurentians means that there are areas where the signal is weak , unstable or non-existent . there is an urgent and essential need to change the infrastructure of the current networks . also , because of the lockdown , internet failures are being felt , and they prevent distance learning , telemedicine and teleworking , among other things . how can our municipalities develop economically if they ca n't provide their community with adequate communication tools ? we are therefore calling on the government to put the interests of its people first by investing massively right now in the construction of high-speed internet and cellular infrastructure . the chair : mr. waugh . mr. kevin waugh ( saskatoongrasswood , cpc ) : i rise today to pay tribute to sir winston churchill , the former prime minister of great britain and one of the greatest leaders history has ever known . in what can only be called a lifetime of service , churchill 's contributions to the commonwealth and to the world are without equal . during the second world war he led the allied forces in europe against the tyranny and fascism of adolph hitler and his nazi regime . when our world was in its darkest hour , churchill 's leadership was a beacon of hope and freedom . i am reminded of something he once said , all the greatest things are simple , and many can be expressed in a single word : freedom , justice , honour , duty , mercy , hope . sir winston churchill himself embodied all of these great things and will forever be a symbol of freedom , democracy and hope . the chair : mr. gerretsen . mr. mark gerretsen ( kingston and the islands , lib . ) : mr . chair , i would like to add my voice to the recognition and celebration of pride month , which is celebrated annually during june . pride month is important for canadians because we can be proud of who we are and celebrate our diversity . this june is different from previous years as we can not celebrate in person all together . however , i know the ongoing pandemic will not stop us from showing our love and support for the lgbtq+ community . to celebrate pride month this year , my office distributed 3,000 pride maple leaf pins across the country ; whoever asked received one . although the majority was sent to constituents in my riding , over 500 pins were sent to the neighbouring ridings of lanarkfrontenackingston , leedsgrenvillethousand islands and rideau lakes , and hastingslennox and addington . it warms my heart to see so many canadians showing their support . happy pride , everyone . the chair : we will now proceed to the questioning of ministers . please note that we will suspend the proceedings twice to allow employees who provide support for the sitting to substitute for each other safely . mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell ( louis-saint-laurent , cpc ) : mr.chair , i am very pleased to take part in today 's meeting of this parliamentary committee . canada has been dealing with the covid-19 pandemic for three months now . the situation now seems to be improving , although we must remain vigilant . economically , business people and the entire canadian economy depend on government decisions . my question is very simple : when will the economic update take place ? hon . chrystia freeland ( deputy prime minister and minister of intergovernmental affairs ) : mr.chair , i thank the hon . member for his question . i agree with him that canada and canadians are doing an excellent and difficult job in the fight against coronavirus . as for the economy , our government is there for canadians , for workers and for businesses , and it will continue to be . mr. grard deltell : canadians , business people and businesses want to know where the government is headed . when will the economic update take place ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , canadians know that the government is there to support them . eight the chair : we return to mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : canadians and quebeckers also know that the government of quebec will table its economic update this week . why is n't the federal government doing the same ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i 'm pleased to explain to hon . members and to canadians what the government is doing for the economy the chair : we return to mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr . chair , it is a real pleasure for me to explain to the minister and everybody in the house of commons that today the saskatchewan government will table its economic update . why ca n't ottawa do that ? the chair : the honourable deputy prime minister . hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i 'm delighted to have the opportunity to share with canadians what our government is doing to support workers , businesses and the economy . eight million canadians have received the cerb , essential support for canadian workers and their families . the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr . chair , 11 days ago the newfoundland government tabled its own economic update . we see governments acting correctly for their people , except for the liberal government , which can not table an economic update . when will the liberal government table an economic update , which canadians would like to see ? the chair : the honourable deputy prime minister . hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i am delighted to share with the member opposite and with canadians what we are doing practically that has meaning for canadians . let me talk about what we are doing for canadian businesses . nearly 670,000 canadian businesses have received support the chair : we 'll go back to mr. deltell . mr. grard deltell : in canada , the quebec government will table its economic update this week . the saskatchewan government tabled its economic update today . the newfoundland government has tabled its economic update . everybody is working hard in canada , and the business community would like to know where the liberal government is going . the question is crystal clear . when will the liberal government table an economic update ? the chair : the honourable deputy prime minister . hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , canadian workers and canadian businesses want to know that our government is here to support them . i have shared with this house our support for canadian workers through the cerb . i 've spoken about the ceba , and let me point out that more than $ 26 billion of support has been given through that essential program . let me talk about the wage subsidy . more than 2.6 million the chair : we 'll return to mr. deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , this is starting to get interesting ; the minister is revealing some of these expenses . could the minister tell us how much the government has spent in the last three months ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i will continue in french by explaining what our government is doing for canadians and workers the chair : mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr . chair , this is a little bit concerning for all canadians , because this government can not say when they will table the economic update , can not identify how much money they have spent in the last three months and can not say what is the deficit of canada . is somebody in this government running this country correctly ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , absolutely we are running this country , and we are supporting our economy . in fact , we appreciate that canada currently is experiencing its greatest economic crisis since the great depression . that is why we have devoted nearly 11 % of gdp to support canadian workers and canadian businesses . i want to assure canadians the chair : we 'll now continue with ms.normandin . ms.normandin , you have the floor . ms. christine normandin ( saint-jean , bq ) : mr.chair , there are times when quebec and the provinces are not just two solitudes , but they get along and speak as one , such as when the time comes to tell the government to mind its own business . on reading section91 of the constitution act , 1982 , which sets out the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal government , nowhere do i find that the federal government must meddle by attaching conditions to health transfers . it is quebec and the provinces that hire the medical personnel , doctors , nurses and caretakers . it is quebec and the provinces that are responsible for purchasing the necessary equipment . it is quebec and the provinces that know what is happening on the ground and what their needs are . will the government do the only thing within its authority , which is to take the cheque , sign it and put it in the mail ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i thank the hon . member for her question . we fully understand the importance of federal support for the provinces , especially in our national fight against the coronavirus . i agree with the hon . member that we must give financial support to the provinces , including quebec absolutely . i would also like to point out the importance of the support of the canadian armed forces , who are doing an important and excellent job in quebec and ontario today , right now . ms. christine normandin : mr.chair , i am glad to see that there is recognition of the importance of transferring this money . my question is whether it can be transferred unconditionally ; that 's what i 'm asking . there 's a state of emergency . in the past , we have seen that it takes a long time to negotiate conditions with the federal government . we saw it in the case of the quebec city tramway , and we are still seeing it now in the case of transfers for housing in quebec , for which there is no agreement and , therefore , no transfer of money . will the federal government send the money free of conditions ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , the hon . member said in her first question that the only thing the federal government had to do on health care was to sign the cheques . i ca n't agree because , today , at this time , at the request of the premier of quebec , the men and women of the canadian armed forces are in quebec today ; they 're there to save the lives of seniors the chair : we now return to ms.normandin . ms. christine normandin : it was indeed at quebec 's request . what i 'm saying is that , at present , the provinces are unanimously asking that there be no conditions . it 's urgent that the money be transferred . the federal government 's job here is to sign the cheque and send it to the provinces . the government 's job is also to make parliament work . this is where there should be negotiations so that we can work , among other things , to send money to people living with disabilities , to make sure we fight cerb fraud and to make sure that court time limits are effective in the current crisis . can the government focus on the issue in order to respect the provinces and transfer money for health care ? hon . chrystia freeland : i thank the hon . member for her question , mr.chair . i agree with the hon . member that the women and men of the canadian armed forces are in quebec today at the request of the province of quebec . that said , i hope that the hon . member will agree with me that being there for quebec 's seniors , that saving the lives of quebec 's seniors , is much more than simply signing cheques . i am very proud of the work the women and men of the canadian armed forces are doing . i think we all should thank these people who are working for canada , for quebec , and who are doing an important and excellent job . ms. christine normandin : mr.chair , i think the deputy prime minister misunderstood me when i was talking about the importance of acting quickly . negotiations between the government and the provinces take an awfully long time because the federal government decides to place conditions where there should n't be any . right now , the only important thing is to transfer the money quickly so that it can be used in our hospitals and our long-term care facilities , where the need is desperate . quebec and the provinces know exactly what their needs are . hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i would like to point out the extent to which the federal government is there to support the provinces , including quebec . we have increased funding to the provinces and territories by $ 500million to help them prepare for covid-19 outbreaks . this funding is in addition to the $ 40billion that we already provide annually to the provinces and territories . that 's a lot of money . it is strong endorsement the chair : we 'll now go to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : mr . chair , systemic racism is killing people . it 's killing black people and it 's killing indigenous people . recently , rodney levi was another victim of systemic racism . he was killed in new brunswick by the rcmp . to deal with systemic racism , we need systemic change . will the liberal government commit to systemic change so that not another life is ever taken again ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i thank the member opposite for the extremely important question , and i 'll take this opportunity to acknowledge the work that he has done for many years fighting racism in canada . our government absolutely acknowledges that systemic racism exists in canada . it exists in all of our institutions , including the police and the rcmp . i agree with the member opposite that now is the moment to fight this the chair : mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , i thank the deputy prime minister very much for the response , but there are some specific actions we need to take . there are movements . black lives matter , as a movement , is calling for the defunding of police . what they 're saying is we need to make better choices with how money is being spent . when someone is in need of a wellness check or a mental health check , money , financing and support should go to mental health workers and health care workers , not the police . is the government prepared to fund and prioritize health care workers over the police ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the member quite rightly began his questions by speaking about systemic racism against indigenous people in canada , and i would like to speak about that for a moment . i spoke to perry bellegarde this morning , because it is such a crucial issue . we can describe it as the original sin of our country . i absolutely agree that we need root and branch reform , including in how policing is done in canada . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , will the liberal government commit to a review of the use of force as outlined for the rcmp ? will the liberals commit to that change ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the prime minister and the minister of public safety had many conversations last week with the rcmp . we all accept that the chair : we 'll go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , will the government commit to ensuring that de-escalation receives priority ? hon . chrystia freeland : let me continue , mr . chair . systemic racism exists in all of our federal institutions , including the rcmp . it 's time to put an end to it . let me just say the chair : we 'll go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , i 'm not getting an answer . will the prime minister or the liberal government commit to something simple and ensure that at the federal level , racial profiling , street checks and carding are expressly prohibited ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , sadly , i ca n't agree that rooting out systemic racism is going to be simple , but i can agree that racial profiling is absolutely inappropriate . it is not something that we should the chair : we 'll go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : well , i 'm going to try to get another commitment from the government , because they do n't seem able to commit to something as clear as ending racial profiling . we know that millions of canadians in a couple of weeks are going to be faced with the reality of their cerb ending . these families are worried about how they 're going to put food on the table , because they ca n't return to a job . will the liberal government commit today so that those families will have some concrete support , yes or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , let me be clear , as i was in my previous answer , that our government clearly is opposed to racial profiling . this is a wrong practice and we 're very clear about our position there . now when it comes to the cerb , i absolutely share the concern of the member opposite . the canadian economy is in its direst state since the great depression . we know that all the jobs have not yet come back . we know that canadian workers , canadian families , continue to need the chair : we 'll now pause for a short time to allow staff to change within the safety parameters for the covid-19 virus , and as we resume , we will go to ms . harder . ms. rachael harder ( lethbridge , cpc ) : mr . chair , the prime minister has mandated his ministers , and i quote , to govern in a positive , open and collaborative way . ironically , as it stands , parliament is currently closed for business . opposition parties have little opportunity to hold the ruling party to account , private members ' bills can not be tabled and legislation can not be debated . can the prime minister , mr. trudeau himself , help us understand how all of this fits into his definition of so-called open government ? the honourable pablo rodriguez ( leader of the government in the house of commons ) : well , mr . chair , we 're here , right ? we 're here , and the opposition is asking questions . they have the equivalent of eight question periods instead of five to ask questions . they have more time than before , so i do n't know why they 're not happy about it . ms. rachael harder : that 's like when i 'm asking for a full meal and your handing me a few jellybeans and saying , why are n't you happy with that ? mr . chair , here 's the thing . it 's like switching a light on and off when it 's convenient for the prime minister and for the liberal party . that 's what they want to do here . that 's not parliament . that 's not democracy . when will mr. trudeau do the right thing , turn the lights on and get back to work for canadians ? hon . pablo rodriguez : i 'm really sorry to hear that my colleague 's not working . i can assure you , mr . chair , on this side of the house , we 're all actually working very hard and we 're answering the questions from the opposition . why ? it 's because it 's extremely important . i sat there for seven years asking questions . i understand important ms. rachael harder : the member opposite knows very well that he is misleading the canadian public . this is not true parliament . this is simply a special committee . here 's the thing . on the liberal party website , under the platform commitment , it says that parliament works best when its members are free to do what they have been elected to do , and that is be the voice for their communities and hold the government to account . this is a liberal document . did the prime minister forget that strengthening parliament was part of his 2019 platform commitment ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , i thank my colleague for quoting our excellent platform . that was a very very good document . the thing is , i think we 've reached a balance whereby mps can come from different places , mostly around ottawa , and ask questions ; but also we can have colleagues from across the country asking questions . why does my colleague think it is better to have only 35 mps participating instead of 338 ? ms. rachael harder : does the prime minister value democracy , or does he still look up to china 's basic dictatorship ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , we 're answering all the questions from the opposition , not only from the people in this room , but we 're answering the chair : it 's back to ms . harder now . ms. rachael harder : i 'll ask the question again . does the prime minister still value the basic dictatorship of china over canada 's democracy ? hon . pablo rodriguez : i do n't know where the colleague wants to go from here , mr . chair . i 'd like to know from her why it is not important to her that her colleagues participate directly . ms. rachael harder : mr. trudeau wrote to his ministers and said to them that they continue to raise the bar on openness , effectiveness and transparency . he went on to explain that this means ... government that is open by default . we now have a parliament that is currently shut down . mr. trudeau has shut it down and has prevented us from being able to do to the good work that canadians expect us to do . is this mr. trudeau 's idea of open by default ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , do they want to talk about shutting down parliament ? how about the time they prorogued parliament twicenot only once , but twice ? the conservative government shut down parliament twice . i was here . i was sitting on the other side of the aisle . it 's quite the opposite now . we 're taking all the questions . this place is open , and we 're answering questions . the chair : one moment , please . i have n't acknowledged you yet , ms . harder . we 've stopped the time there . i want to remind honourable members that questions and answers are being given , and we want to hear both sides . please keep the heckling down . ms . harder , please proceed . ms. rachael harder : in 2014 , the leader of the liberal party developed a policy resolution entitled restoring trust in canada 's democracy . that 's ironic , because right now , again , parliament is currently shut down . we are prevented from being able to do the good work that we are expected to do . at the time , the prime minister said , canadians want their members of parliament to be effective voices for their communities in ottawa , and not merely mouthpieces in their communities for an all-too-powerful prime minister . sadly , mr. trudeau has become the all-too-powerful prime minister that he once believed should not exist . why did he change his mind ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , i 'd like to know why my colleague wants to shut down the voices of her colleagues who could not speak and could not participate in this room . mr . chair , how would we vote on private members ' bills , for example ? as you know , it is not a government vote or a party vote ; it 's per row . you want to come back ? are you going to acceptmr . chair , through youthat we have electronic voting , yes or no ? the chair : we 'll go on to mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis : mr . chair , we know that the minister of foreign affairs has champagne tastes and london flats , but it 's his champagne mortgages that canadians are concerned about . specifically , why did the minister only disclose the complete extent of his personal debt to the chinese government on june 4 of this year ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , as you know , since the minister entered politics , his two mortgages and other liabilities and assets have been fully disclosed to the ethics commissioner and placed on the online public registry . it 's public , mr . chair . it 's public . mr. garnett genuis : now it 's public and it 's terrible . when will the foreign affairs minister be here to answer these questions himself ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , it 's always been public . we 're in the middle of a pandemic here , trying to help canadians , and the best they can do is ask questions about the chair : we will go back to mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis : when the minister owes over a million dollars to the chinese government , people have a right to ask him questions . when will the minister of foreign affairs show up ? hon . pablo rodriguez : the minister shows up every day , mr . chair . he shows up and works for canadians . once again , those are public documents . everything the minister did is public . i still do n't know why they ask the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis : mr . chair , he does n't even have to come to the house . all he has to do is appear on the screen . where is the minister ? why is he hiding ? why wo n't he answer questions about his personal debt to the chinese government ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , if he goes online he 's going to get the information . mr. garnett genuis : mr . chair , the minister is hiding . let 's ask some specific questions about their china policy . what is the impact on the decision-making ? three-quarters of canadians do n't want huawei involved in our 5g network . will the minister put the interests of canadians ahead of the interests of his creditors and say no to huawei ? hon . navdeep bains ( minister of innovation , science and industry ) : mr . chair , when it comes to 5g deployment , we are right now currently undergoing a comprehensive review . we have been absolutely clear with allies and with canadians that we never have and never will compromise canadians ' national interests . mr. garnett genuis : mr . chair , that is not an answer , and it is completely out of step with what our allies have already recognized . reports are emerging of multiple deadly viruses exported from winnipeg 's microbiology laboratory to the wuhan institute of virology right before scientists were expelled for policy breaches . in spite of that , scientific co-operation between canadian institutions and the military-affiliated wuhan institute of virology is continuing . why has n't the government put in place new guidelines to prevent the export of sensitive pathogens and information to china ? hon . patty hajdu ( minister of health ) : mr . chair , he 's right that in 2019 the national microbiology laboratory shared lab samples with the wuhan institute of virology . the national microbiology laboratory routinely shares samples with other labs to help advance the international community 's understanding of viruses and the research that is ongoing around those viruses . there are strict protocols in place for these transfers , and these samples were transported according to canadian laws and regulations . mr. garnett genuis : mr . chair , i think canadians would be concerned to hear that it 's routine to transport viruses to chinese military-affiliated labs . when champagne was the parliamentary secretary for finance , the government decided to give hundreds of millions of dollars to the asian infrastructure investment bank , bankrolling chinese state-controlled development projects in asia with weak standards in labour , human rights and environment . will the minister put canadian taxpayers ahead of his personal creditors and support a pullout from the communist party-controlled development bank ? hon . pablo rodriguez : once again , mr . chair , my colleague is trying to connect the dots , and i do n't know exactly where he is going from here , but everything is public . there 's a thing called google . he can go on it and check the information . mr. garnett genuis : mr . chair , the public can listen to this . i 'm sure this exchange will also be available on google , and the public can draw their own conclusions . we have failures on 5g , failures when it comes to the transport of deadly viruses and failures when it comes to giving over $ 400 million to the asian infrastructure investment bank . it 's clear that the bank of china 's investment in minister champagne is paying off . it 's time for the minister to settle his debt with the communist government and not settle it on the backs of canadians . when will the minister be here in the house and answer questions about this mortgage ? hon . pablo rodriguez : my colleague should be cautious with what he is saying in the house , mr . chair . this is serious stuff . he should be careful about what he says . the minister is actually working extremely hard for all canadians and is doing his job correctly , mr . chair . we 're talking about public information . once again , let him go to google and google it . that 's it . the chair : now we 'll go to mr. barrett . mr. michael barrett : canada 's ambassador to the united nations sent a letter last week to all member states of the un promising that canada would consider providing more funding for unrra , the same unrra that is a front for hamas , which allows weapons of terror to be stored in schools and provides textbooks that call for the destruction of israel . do these liberals have no shame when it comes to their quest for a seat on the un security council ? hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : thank you , mr . chair . i want to thank the honourable member for that question . we know that at this time canada must show leadership in the face of global challenges . more than ever , canada is playing a positive role by being a champion in diversity and inclusion , supporting the global fight against covid-19 , addressing climate change , leading peace and security efforts and helping the most vulnerable . a seat on the security council will allow canada to be a strong voice for a fairer , more inclusive and prosperous the chair : we 'll go back to mr. barrett . mr. michael barrett : mr . chair , i received a letter from bob anderson this week , who 's advocating for his neighbours like jean grevelding , who owns a cottage at butternut bay . like many people , jean is an american who owns a property on our side of the border . these people are taxpaying members of our communities . these folks have plans in place to follow all canadian quarantine rules . they 're concerned about leaving their properties uncared for over the summer . will folks like jean be allowed to cross the border to check on their properties this summer ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . of course , our priority is and always has been and always must be the protection of the health and safety of canadians . that 's why we put in place these restrictions for non-essential travel and have required , through the public health agency of canada , a 14-day quarantine . i do n't know the specifics of the person for whom you advocate , but we want to make sure that if they come into canada , it is for an essential purpose and that they do it safely and respect the quarantine that has been put in place . mr. michael barrett : with nine branches throughout my riding , the royal canadian legion offers a great deal to veterans and rural communities alike . they have been experiencing hardship and a loss of revenue , to the point where they may be forced to shut their doors . the zone g2 commander and local mayors such as roger haley have reached out to me expressing their dire need . will the government offer support to legions across the country so they can continue to carry out their vital work for our veterans ? hon . lawrence macaulay ( minister of veterans affairs ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . yes , we have done a lot to help support groups like the legions . there is a $ 350-million emergency community support fund . if they 're supplying any help to people regarding covid , this fund is there . indeed , we 're doing everything we can to make sure that we help the legions and other groups that do so much to help veterans right across the country . mr. michael barrett : on may 21 , the minister stated that her team was working as quickly as it could to fill the gaps in ceba . it has now been three weeks , and many business owners , such as mortgage broker corinna smith-gatcke , are still left in the lurch amid the delays , which are pushing businesses closer to shutting their doors for good . will these businesses have access to ceba before it 's too late for them ? hon . mary ng : thank you , mr . chair , and i thank the honourable member for that really important question on our canadian small businesses . those businesses can absolutely have access to the loan at their financial institution this friday , and i would encourage them to go and see their bank or credit union . i want businesses to know that nothing is more important for us than making sure they get the support they need during this difficult time . mr. michael barrett : the county road 43 expansion project is critical for my riding and the region as a whole . this project will widen the road , increasing safety for the 18,000 motorists who travel the road every day . it 's been 334 days since the provincial and local governments announced funding , but there has been nothing from this liberal government . it 's been 181 days since minister mckenna told me her staff were reviewing the project . today , there is still nothing , and for the last month the minister 's team has not even found the time to respond to my request for an update . will minister mckenna finally stop with the delays and commit to funding this project today ? hon . catherine mckenna ( minister of infrastructure and communities ) : mr . chair , as the member opposite knows , we work with provinces and territories to advance our infrastructure investments . we 're making investments across the country . they are making a real difference in people 's lives . we 're always happy to work with members of parliament , but they must also work with provinces and territories so that projects are advanced by them to our office . the chair : we 'll now continue with mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall ( yorktonmelville , cpc ) : thank you , chair . through you , has mr. macaulay read ombudsman dalton 's may 2020 report , financial compensation for canadian veterans : a comparative analysis of benefit regimes ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i apologize , but i 'll have to ask my honourable colleague to repeat the question . the chair : mrs. wagantall , we 'll freeze the time so that there 's no extra time taken . mrs. cathay wagantall : thank you , chair . my question was whether mr. macaulay has read ombudsman dalton 's may 2020 report , financial compensation for canadian veterans : a comparative analysis of benefit regimes . hon . lawrence macaulay : thank you very much , mr . chair . i appreciate my honourable colleague 's question . of course , i appreciate mr. dalton 's input and all that he has done for veterans . we 've discussed it many times . i 've done everything and worked with him in order to make sure that we bring the proper compensation to veterans the chair : we 'll go back to mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : as a result of that study , are the financial outcomes canada seeks to provide for ill and injured veterans now clearly defined within the department of veterans affairs ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , as the member would know , i am to bring a report to the veterans affairs committee , and there are a number of things done in order to make sure that report is the chair : we 'll go back to mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : then i would suggest that we get our committee up and going as it should be . where are these financial directions published ? hon . lawrence macaulay : well , of course , lockdown , but just under $ 90 million that the government put in supplementary estimates to make sure we address the backlog for veterans affairs . it 's a major help the chair : we 'll go back to mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : minister , are canadian armed forces members provided with a copy of this document ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , my honourable colleague would have to ask the canadian armed forces that question . mrs. cathay wagantall : there are three different providing lifetime benefits for ill and injured veterans . in ombudsman dalton 's recent report , did any one of these three provide the best compensation in all nine scenarios that were studied ? hon . lawrence macaulay : of course , as she knows , there 's been a lot of work done in order to make sure that we provide the proper compensation to veterans . we 're working very hard , with a lot of help from mr. dalton , to make sure that the appropriate the chair : we 'll now continue with mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : in the undisclosed settlement of sean bruyea 's legal case against seamus o'regan and the liberal government , a joint statement says ... canadians , especially all veterans and their families , are encouraged to enter the public debate about policies and programs that affect our veterans and their families . does mr. macaulay agree with this statement ? hon . lawrence macaulay : i can assure you that anybody is welcome to enter any discussion on compensation of veterans . we 're always open to what we can do in order to make sure that we provide appropriate compensation . i do n't think the term would be appropriate , but it would provide some compensation to veterans who truly deserve it . they defend our democracy the chair : we 'll go back to ms. wagantall . oh , i 'm sorry ms. andranne larouche : mr.chair , i have a point of order . the interpretation has n't worked for a few interventions . it 's difficult to follow the exchange between the hon . member and the minister . the chair : we 're having a problem with the interpretation . minister and ms. wagantall , you are joining us virtually . i 'm wondering if you have the right language on at the bottom of your screen . we 'll start with that for troubleshooting . mrs. cathay wagantall : i have english . the chair : very good . minister macaulay , what do you have ? hon . lawrence macaulay : i have english , mr . chair . the chair : very good . then we 'll check on our side . ms.larouche , did i understand correctly that the interpretation did n't work for both speakers ? ms. andranne larouche : the sound did n't allow the interpreters to do their job . it seemed to be a problem with the sound . the chair : in that case , i would ask both members to maybe put their mike a little bit close to their mouth . we 'll see how that works . i 'm looking at the screen , and i notice the mike is a little bit far . could we bend it in a little bit more ? i appreciate that . thank you for your patience . we 'll give it another try . ms. wagantall , please go ahead . mrs. cathay wagantall : on a point of order , quite often while i 'm trying to speak , there are lots of other voices in the background . the chair : i would ask everyone to please be on mute , as well as for anyone in the chamber to please refrain from speaking loudly . just whisper among yourselves if you have something to say . we 'll take this one from the top . we have a minute and 45 seconds left . ms. wagantall , please proceed with your next question . mrs. cathay wagantall : you said next question , so we 're not going backwards , chair ? the chair : did we have an answer from minister macaulay ? no ? we 'll go to minister macaulay to finish up the answer . we 'll start at 27 seconds , freeze the clock and hear his answer . then , because of all of the confusion , we 'll start at one minute and 45 seconds when we get going again . mrs. cathay wagantall : should i repeat the question , sir ? the chair : please do . the clock is frozen . after we go through the question and the answer , we 'll start the clock again . mr. wagantall , please repeat the question . mrs. cathay wagantall : thank you , chair . in the undisclosed settlement to sean bruyea 's legal case against seamus o'regan and the liberal government , a joint statement says , canadians , especially all veterans and their families , are encouraged to enter the public debate about policies and programs that affect our veterans and their families . does mr. macaulay agree with this statement ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i appreciate my honourable colleague 's question and concern . of course i agree . anybody is quite open to indicate whatever they wish in order to make sure we provide as appropriate a compensation as possible . you can never totally compensate veterans truly for what they deserve , but we want to make sure we provide the best compensation possible . that 's what we will do and want to do . the chair : ms. wagantall , we will start the clock again . you have one minute and 45 seconds remaining . please proceed . mrs. cathay wagantall : if that 's the case , is minister macaulay aware of the practice of red-flagging veterans ' files ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i 'm not aware . mrs. cathay wagantall : since the deputy minister has indicated that he runs the department , will the minister ask him for the names of veterans and the dates and the reasons that they are , or have been , red-flagged by vac ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i would certainly ask any veteran or anybody who has a concern to contact my office . i will do anything i can to make sure that the veterans the chair : we 'll go back to ms. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : do the most ill and injured still receive from the pension up to $ 300,000 less for life ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , as you know and as the prime minister indicated when the pension for life was put in place , it was stated that if anybody receives lessthe prime minister himself indicated it quite clearlythat must be adjusted . mrs. cathay wagantall : for veterans in similar circumstances , should the date of their application for compensation be a factor in determining whether they 're treated equitably ? hon . lawrence macaulay : yes , of course , the date is when the compensation would start . of course , it 's very important and very appropriate . the chair : now we will proceed to mr. lloyd . mr. dane lloyd ( sturgeon riverparkland , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . retired major mark campbell in my riding of sturgeon riverparkland lost both legs in the line of duty in afghanistan . he is an avid sport shooter , but understandably , due to his disability , he is very limited in the kinds of firearms he can use , and all of these firearms have now been banned under the liberal oic . my question to the minister of public safety is this : did their department do a legal analysis and consider the section 15 charter rights of disabled canadians not to be discriminated against when they passed their oic ? hon . bill blair : yes , there was a very thorough analysis done by the justice department to ensure that the prohibitions we put in place were , in fact , charter compliant . let me also say , mr . chair , how important it was that we prohibited weapons that were not designed for sporting purposes at all . in fact , they were designed for soldiers to use in combat . they have no place in a civil society . we have prohibited them , and we believeand this has been echoed by many people across the countrythat this will make canadians safer . mr. dane lloyd : mr . chair , is the minister aware that the ar-15 is the most popular sporting rifle in canada , and is he aware that disabled veterans like major mark campbell are unable to participate in the sport of sport shooting because of his oic ? hon . bill blair : i can assure the member that what i am aware of is that the ar-15 and other weapons like them have been used in mass killings in canada on many occasions , such as at cole polytechnique , at dawson college , again at the quebec mosque and in moncton . the ar-15s in particular were also used at the terrible tragedy in places like sandy hook , where a bunch of kids were killed , so there is no place for the chair : we will go to mr. lloyd . mr. dane lloyd : mr . chair , it has been months since the liberals shut down this parliament and months since the minister of finance should have presented a budget or at least an economic update to canadians . since then we have seen billions spent with little oversight and no plan . the minister says that he needs certainty before he can table a budget . well , that did n't stop stephen harper and the conservatives from tabling a budget in the depth of the last great recession . when are these liberals finally going to take their job seriously and table an economic update ? hon . mona fortier ( minister of middle class prosperity and associate minister of finance ) : mr . chair , we 're taking this very seriously . we 're working for canadians and bringing forward supports to make sure that businesses , workers and canadians can put food on the table and pay their rent . we will continue to support canadians , and when we have a clear projection to present , we will do that . mr. dane lloyd : mr . chair , the results are in , and businesses are n't happy with the so-called support programs from these liberals . in fact , the oil and gas industry has been shut out of many of these economic programs . when is the government going to recognize that their business support plans have been an absolute failure with only a fraction of the billions promised being accessible to businesses ? hon . seamus o'regan ( minister of natural resources ) : mr . chair , our government has taken swift and immediate action to support our sector throughout this challenging time . we had the bcap , which is critically important to providing liquidity to support the smes that make up 85 % of the jobs in our sector . it has taken an enormous team effort . people are working around the clock to get money where it needs to be . we are helping hard-working canadians , small businesses and large businesses right across the country , but in particular in our energy sector . mr. dane lloyd : mr . chair , i 'm pleased to see the minister of natural resources online . he tweeted recently to praise the alberta carbon trunk line and the north west redwater partnership refinery in my riding . can the minister tell us what , if any , support they have given to the innovative carbon capture and sequestration technology in this country ? hon . seamus o'regan : mr . chair , we see carbon capture and sequestration as an integral part of lowering emissions , making emissions more competitive and making our oil and gas industry more competitive . we 're seeing where the investment dollars are going . they are going to jurisdictions that are committed to lowering emissions . obviously , this government is committing to net zero . mr. dane lloyd : i note that the minister could n't name a single example of government support for carbon capture , utilization and sequestration technology . we have spent a lot of time talking about the covid-19 pandemic , but canadians are living with another horrific reality , that being the intensifying opioid overdose epidemic . reports indicate that in the past four years , 14,000 canadians have died , and the numbers during covid-19 have been skyrocketing , with british columbia seeing a 39 % increase this year alone . i know this because i 've lost a family member to a fentanyl overdose . when is the government going to take this scourge seriously and take action to save the lives of canadians ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , i share the member 's deep sadness about the number of lives we 've lost to opioid overdose . our government has been steadily making it easier for people who live with substance use to access medications to treat substance use , such as prescription suboxone and methadone . we have made it easier to rapidly establish safe injection sites in communities and have supported community-based projects that work with people who are using substances . we need to understand that this is a complex issue , and we need to support people to get the help they need . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ( algomamanitoulinkapuskasing , ndp ) ) : the hon . member for thrse-deblainville . ms. louise chabot ( thrse-de blainville , bq ) : madamchair , i will come back to the bill introduced last week . as parliamentarians , we felt like we were watching a very bad play , as i imagine the public did . i say that it was theatre , even though it should n't be in this place . the government decided to stage a play and act alone and , unfortunately , there were several acts missing . a very important part of this bill was about supporting people with disabilities in this time of crisis . however , the government did not see fit to negotiate with the opposition parties , even though it is in a minority position . despite this arrogance , the bloc qubcois proposed solutions . one of the things we proposed was to split the bill so that we could give this support to people with disabilities , but the conservatives did not want to do that . we came back and asked for time to negotiate and give support to people with disabilities , but the government defeated the motion . we asked that the house be recalled today so that we could pass this part of the bill concerning support for people with disabilities , but we are still in the dark . why are we abandoning people with disabilities ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : i thank the hon . member for her question . we know this pandemic has deeply affected the lives and health of all canadians and has disproportionately affected canadians with disabilities in particular . from the very beginning , we 've taken a disability-inclusive approach to our emergency response to ensure that canadians with disabilities get the support they need . that is why we announced a one-time payment of $ 600 for persons with disabilities to address these expenses . this will go a long way toward helping canadians with disabilities . we encourage and urge all parties in the opposition to support this measure . we 're confident that this measure , along with other investments , will benefit canadians with disabilities , and we hope to get the support of the other parties very soon . ms. louise chabot : madamchair , i remind you that this measure was n't passed because we were n't allowed to do so . a measure to help people with disabilities has been put in an omnibus bill . we 've tried here , in the house , to provide the means to give that support , so i ask again , can the government be counted on to give a response to people with disabilities ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , it was absolutely not an omnibus bill . it contained assistance for the disabled , of course , but it also contained assistance for our seasonal workers , as well as a number of other measures that the bloc qubcois opposed . they refused to debate and , when the question of splitting the bill came up , the conservatives refused to do that . that is why there is no bill at the moment , and that is very unfortunate . ms. louise chabot : it was a bloc qubcois proposal to split the bill . the government had not thought of it , but they found that it was a good idea . let me return to the attack . this bill proposed changes to the wage subsidy program , it was supposed to make the cerb more flexible , it proposed fines for fraudsters and , since there was a little section about a benefit for the disabled , the government took it for granted that we would support it without any negotiations with the parties . however , we set one very important condition : that the liberal party must get its hands out of taxpayers ' pockets in terms of the wage subsidy . hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , as we listen to the bloc qubcois members , we might think that they invented peanut butter and apple pie . this bill contained a number of measures that all quebeckers and all canadians needed , but the bloc qubcois refused to debate it . no , we did not follow the bloc qubcois ' example in splitting the bill ; we had thought of it a long time previously . we have not been able to do that because of the conservatives . because of them , we can not help those living with disabilities . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : ms.chabot , you have 45seconds left . ms. louise chabot : we asked on a number of occasions for the house to be able to sit starting today to pass the part of the bill dealing with those with disabilities . what is the status of that , madamchair ? we have not heard about it since . hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , my colleague knows very well that things are not as simple as that . there are procedural mechanisms unique to the house . i hope that , one day , we will be able to pass this bill and be able to provide assistance for those living with disabilities . i hope that the conservatives will change their minds and give us their support . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go now to the honourable member for don valley east , ms. ratansi . ms. yasmin ratansi ( don valley east , lib . ) : thank you , madam chair . i 'll be sharing my time with the member for surrey centre . since 2015 our government has been focused on ensuring its policies mitigate the effects of climate change . several measures have been implemented for phasing out coal , making polluters pay , providing climate incentives , investing in green technologies and much more , which all together have created a climate plan that is doing more to cut pollution than any other in canada 's history . in my riding of don valley east , many innovative businesses have benefited from these investments and initiatives . one area of particular interest is our government 's work to protect 25 % of canada 's land and 25 % of its oceans by 2025 . our natural environment is something that canadians and my constituents care about deeply . could the minister update this house on the new conservation projects announced on june 5 , world environment day , and on how our government is protecting our environment ? hon . seamus o'regan : madam chair , protecting nature is an important part of how we will address climate change and the very real challenges it presents . that 's why on june 5 , world environment day , our government announced over 60 conservation projects under development across canada . these projects are funded through the canada nature fund 's target 1 challenge initiative . they 'll conserve canadian nature and biodiversity and protect species at risk , enhance ecological integrity and connectivity , and enhance the size of canada 's vast network of protected areas . nearly half of these projects are indigenous-led , with the aim of creating indigenous-protected conserved areas . madam chair , projects like these move us closer to our goal of protecting 25 % of canada 's lands and oceans by 2025 . by working together in partnership with the provinces , territories , municipalities , indigenous peoples and canadians , together we can protect our natural environment for generations to come . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : ms. ratansi , since you have 25 seconds left , we will go to the honourable member for surrey centre . mr. randeep sarai ( surrey centre , lib . ) : madam chair , there are many small and medium-sized businesses in my riding of surrey centre . many have been impacted by covid-19 . they saw a decrease in business or needed to close their doors completely in order to adhere to public safety measures to manage the spread of covid-19 . these measures helped keep our most vulnerable citizens safe and ensured that our hospital and health care providers did not become overwhelmed with a sharp spike in cases . thanks to our government 's covid-19 emergency response , many of these businesses have been able to keep their employees and access important liquidity through the canada emergency business account , which provides loans to small businesses and non-profits , and the canada emergency wage subsidy , which is helping businesses to keep and rehire their employees while their revenues are down by providing up to 75 % of wages for up to 24 weeks . as we begin to reopen the economy and canadians across the country return to the job market , those benefits will be even more important to help businesses and industries rehire their staff and make important adjustments to align with public health guidelines to gradually increase their operations . can the minister please update the committee on how many canadian businesses have taken advantage of ceba and cews since applications for each have been opened ? hon . mary ng : madam chair , i want to begin by thanking the member for surrey centre for all the work he does to support his constituents and small businesses . canadians across the country need to know our government has been working tirelessly and will continue to work tirelessly on their behalf . this is why we put in place the important programs to help them get through this crisis during this difficult time , programs such as the wage subsidy program . we know that in so many businesses the employees are often like extended family members . the wage subsidy has helped these businesses keep their employees on the payroll and are now helping in their rehiring as they slowly and safely restart . there are 348,000 businesses being helped with the wage subsidy program , and this means that 2.6 million workers are being helped . businesses are also being helped through the interest-free $ 40,000 loan they can access through ceba to help stay afloat and pay their expenses during this crisis . i 'm pleased to inform this house that to date more than 669,000 the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable member for st. john 's east . mr. jack harris : thank you , madam chair . i 'll be splitting my time with my colleague , the member for londonfanshawe . madam chair , with so many recent reports and videos of police using force , sometimes deadly force , and violence against indigenous and black people in canada , i 've called for the public safety committee to reconvene . if the members agree , will the minister come to the committee and provide concrete answers as to how the government intends to address racism inherent in canada 's law enforcement , and in particular the rcmp ? hon . bill blair : thank you very much , madam chair . i thank my colleague for the question . it 's perhaps the most important one facing canada today . madam chair , indigenous people , black canadians and other racialized people are far too often experiencing systemic racism and disparate outcomes within the entire criminal justice system . in order to respond appropriately , i think it 's necessary to begin by acknowledging the lived experience of people who 've known bias and discrimination at the hands of the police and our courts and within our prisons . we remain committed to working with all racialized people and all of the members of this house to ensure that we work toward social justice for all canadians , and i look forward to discussing the member 's motion further with him . mr. jack harris : will the minister and the government commit to facilitating such a meeting of this committee virtually ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , the decisions of the committee are the committee 's , so i 'm sure that this will be a discussion within the committee , but if called , i will certainly be pleased to come with my officials to provide the committee with whatever support and information it needs to contribute to this very important discussion . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr. harris , you have 40 seconds . mr. jack harris : in light of what we 've seen with chief adam in fort mcmurray and the rcmp accepting that the actions were reasonable , will the minister commit to a full review of the use of force by the rcmp , in particular the philosophy , tactics and training that is given to rcmp officers in dealing with the public ? hon . bill blair : i thank the member and i want to assure him , first of all , that this is work that is ongoing , not just in the rcmp but throughout the police community . may i also take this opportunity , madam chair , to say that i think all police training has to begin with one very important principle , and that 's the preservation of all life and the respect for all canadians . we also know the importance of de-escalation training . we 're committed to continuing to work with indigenous communities , racialized communities and with police services and all participants in the criminal justice system to make sure that it is fair for all canadians . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable member for londonfanshawe , ms. mathyssen . ms. lindsay mathyssen ( londonfanshawe , ndp ) : madam chair , we need more justice for black , indigenous and racialized people in canada . they ca n't be asked to keep waiting . this government recognizes that systemic racism exists but refuses to collect race-based data that would allow us to quantify and truly address this injustice . we need data to protect canadians . when will this government do the right thing and start collecting race-based data ? hon . bardish chagger ( minister of diversity and inclusion and youth ) : madam chair , our government agrees that it 's important that we collect data , and that 's exactly why , in the anti-racism secretariat and the anti-racism strategy , there is a commitment to have money go to statistics canada to collect race-based data . we look forward to working with all members to ensure it happens . ms. lindsay mathyssen : madam chair , we know that statistics canada will start to collect job numbers based on race . this will allow us to identify systemic racism where it is and where we need to ensure a fair and more equal job market for black , indigenous and racialized people in canada . why is this government refusing to follow suit so we can tackle systemic racism everywhere , in every sector ? hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , i 'd like to thank my honourable colleague for her question . she 's absolutely correct in her assessment that we need to collect more data , reliable data , data that will help us deal with some of the challenges we 're seeing with systemic discrimination , but , more broadly , we want to make sure that we continue to engage with an anti-racism strategy that will allow us to collect that disaggregated data . that is why we allocated $ 6.2 million to that initiative through statistics canada , but we know we must do more and we will do more . ms. lindsay mathyssen : we know that all people are susceptible to catching covid-19 , but health authorities are clear that parts of cities like montreal and toronto have been more impacted than others . for black and racialized people living in these cities , this data is a matter of life and death . will the government collect and share disaggregated data so we can identify and erase systemic racism , yes or no ? hon . bardish chagger : madam chair , making decisions based on science and evidence is essential for our government . we took that practice from day one . it is exactly the step we will take moving forward and that 's why we are making those investments to ensure that data exists . we are working across all departments . my mandate letter is public . i look forward to continuing to work not only with all ministers , departments and agencies , but all allies and all parties to get this work done . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr.blaney , the honourable member for bellechasseles etcheminslvis , has the floor . hon . steven blaney ( bellechasseles etcheminslvis , cpc ) : thank you , madamchair . last week , my plumber told me that , each time justin trudeau comes down the steps to make announcements totalling several billion dollars , he feels like someone is rifling through his pockets . my question is simple and goes to the minister of finance : where is this money coming from ? hon . mona fortier : madamchair , i would like to thank my honourable colleague for his question . currently , the health and safety of canadians are our top priorities . we have implemented an emergency economic plan to support canadians , workers and companies . we will continue to support them during this crisis . hon . steven blaney : the answer i would have liked is simple : we are borrowing the money and we are going to have to pay it back one day . that is another liberal craze : they borrow money , they make campaign promises , and off they go . under the conservative government , the chantier davie in lvis had 1,700workers for the supply ship asterix . in the election campaign , the liberals promised icebreakers . when are the liberals going to award the icebreaker contracts to the chantier davie ? hon . david lametti ( minister of justice and attorney general of canada ) : madamchair , we are very proud of the chantier davie and we completely understand its role in the system . we are currently assessing those requests . we are going to establish the process for the polar ice-breaker , which is essential for the work of the coast guard in northern communities , and we are going to make sure that the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr.blaney has the floor . hon . steven blaney : the workers do not need words ; they need contracts and jobs . the same is true for young people who want to work . there is money in the canada summer jobs program : in my constituency alone , $ 150,000has been approved . companies want young people to work and want to hire them . what is the minister waiting for in order to confirm those positions ? in my constituency , and everywhere else in the country , our young people want to work . what is the government waiting for in order to send some cash to the canada summer jobs program ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , we are proud of the canada summer jobs program . we are introducing flexibilities into the system to enable employers to be able to hire summer students . we recognize the importance of this program to provide both financial resources and necessary experience for young people . we believe in continuing to invest in the canada summer jobs program . hon . steven blaney : the workers , the young people and the employers have been waiting for weeks . the money is available ; where is the announcement ? madamchair , our young people are not the only ones who want to work . there are also the temporary foreign workers . let me use jessie gito as an example ; he has been working at plate2000 in saint-anselme for years . when the time came to renew his work permit , he found out that he has to have some biometric tests . but he can not get them because the offices are closed . is the minister going to allow jessie gito and the thousands of other temporary foreign workers who want to work to be able to do so until the government biometric testing centres reopen ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , it is important for the honourable member to recognize that we are in the early recovery stage of the pandemic . employers are slowly reopening businesses . we will ensure that we support both our students and our temporary foreign workers to make sure we get the recovery right . we will continue to invest in the canada summer jobs program . we 've introduced flexibilities into the program to ensure that employers are able to take advantage of the program and give opportunities to young people . hon . steven blaney : it is very simple . jessie gito is a foreign worker , who is in a company that provides an essential service . he needs a decision that will let him go to work , rather than staying home and doing nothing . then , when the government 's biometric testing centres are open again , he will gladly go to one . young people want to work in agriculture as well , and the minister has told us that the government wants young people working and that their files will be processed as quickly as possible . she wants to create 700positions and she knows that people can fill in an application on a first-come first-served basis . of those 700positions , how many have been confirmed to date ? the good weather has arrived , the corn is starting to grow , and this is the time when farmers need the young workers . hon . marie-claude bibeau ( minister of agriculture and agri-food ) : madamchair , the program for young workers in agriculture is open . i also encourage agricultural producers to register for it . this is a program that is not only intended to provide summer jobs , but also to interest young people in making a career in agriculture . as i have said before , the department is processing files as quickly as possible . each employer will have an answer very shortly . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will now take a short break . okay , we are ready to start again . we will go to the honourable member for barriespringwateroro-medonte . mr. doug shipley ( barriespringwateroro-medonte , cpc ) : thank you , chair . over the course of the pandemic , has the government been using all avenues possible to source much-needed ppe in canada ? hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , we have been very clear that we have a made-in-canada initiative that has engaged companies across the country . over 700 companies have retooled and scaled up their operations for personal protective equipment to help front-line health care workers . mr. doug shipley : madam chair , i need to ask very quickly which ministry and minister are responsible for the sourcing of ppe in canada . hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , this is a collective effort . i work with the minister of health and the minister for procurement , and we coordinate with the provinces and territories to make sure there are appropriate levels of ppe to help front-line health care workers and essential workers across the country . mr. doug shipley : thank you for that clarification . that will make this question all the more pertinent . my riding of barriespringwateroro-medonte is the home of southmedic inc. southmedic is a renowned medical supply business . for over 37 years , it has provided front-line health care workers with an extensive line of ppe and other essential products required when dealing with respiratory illnesses . this company specializes in respiratory illness equipment . southmedic currently employs over 700 people , and it has been recognized as one of canada 's best-managed companies by deloitte on numerous occasions . since the beginning of the pandemic , both i and the member for barrieinnisfil have been attempting to obtain some assistance for southmedic from the federal government . calls and emails were falling on deaf ears . in early may , i wrote a letter to minister anand outlining the situation . i received a letter back from the minister dated may 27 indicating that this issue of southmedic falls under the mandate of the minister of innovation , science and economic development canada . i have heard nothing more . when will the federal government reach out and help this great canadian company and therefore ensure that all front-line workers will have the proper ppe they require ? hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , i 'd like to thank my honourable colleague for his question . he knows full well that this is a very challenging time . that is why we had a call to action to engage canadians right across the country . since then , we 've seen over 6,000 companies step up to offer solutions and ideas , and over 700 companies have retooled their efforts . i acknowledge that some companies are still engaging with the government , and we 'll continue to explore all possible options to make sure we continue to procure the necessary levels of personal protective equipment to protect canadians and to protect front-line health care workers . that has always been our priority . i want to thank the outstanding canadian companies that have come forward and have helped us in this endeavour . we continue to look forward to working with them . mr. doug shipley : thank you for that answer . just to follow up , there 's no retooling required at this company . they could have been up and going very quickly . they just needed a little assistance at the beginning . moving on to a different issue , while walking to my office this morning , i stopped at my local small family-run coffee shop and was discussing the current economic situation with the two owners of the establishment . they indicated they are having a very tough time surviving this economic downturn . the only thing keeping them hopeful is that soon the public service will start returning to work , and therefore their business will begin to return . could the government please give us some indication as to what the plans are for returning the civil service back to work safely , and when ? hon . jean-yves duclos ( president of the treasury board ) : thank you , madam chair . i 'm delighted to answer this question . this is a very important topic , but i 'd like to take the opportunity first to thank our public servants , who have worked very hard in the last few weeks , both personally and professionally . in fact , today is a wonderful day to say that , because today is the start of national public service week . that 's one more reason to thank them for their dedicated work . they are not going to go back to work . they 've been at work for the last few monthsin different circumstances , but they have been working very hard to deliver the services and the support canadians need and deserve . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : next we 'll go to the honourable member for selkirkinterlakeeastman , mr. bezan . mr. james bezan ( selkirkinterlakeeastman , cpc ) : thank you , madam chair . my questions are for the minister of national defence . first of all , i want to thank the great men and women of the canadian armed forces for the fantastic job they 're doing in operation laser , serving on the front lines battling covid-19 . can the minister of national defence give the house an update on exactly where we are at with the number of canadian armed forces members who have been infected with covid-19 ? hon . harjit s. sajjan ( minister of national defence ) : madam chair , i want to echo the member opposite 's comments in thanking our canadian armed forces members . currently , we have 13 active cases in the canadian armed forces , but in the long-term care facilities we currently have 50 cases . no member has been currently hospitalized . we have also conducted very thorough reviews of our protection protocols as well . mr. james bezan : through you , chair , minister sajjan , does that number of active cases include the active cases that are in long-term care facilities right now in operation laser ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : madam chair , as i stated , the 50 cases are strictly from the long-term care facilities . the 13 cases i mentioned are not in the long-term care facilities . just to give the actual clarification , no member has been currently hospitalized . mr. james bezan : in those numbers , madam chair , can mr. sajjan say how many of those cases in long-term care facilities are active and how many are recovered ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : madam chair , i do n't have the exact number . what i can say to break it down further is that in quebec we currently have 36 and in ontario we have 14 . as well , 36 of the members have been out of isolation . i 'll get more details and pass them on directly to the member , madam chair . mr. james bezan : thank you , minister . madam chair , i have a quick question while we 're still talking about operation laser . the president of the treasury board has said , the canadian armed forces will be present as long as their presence is needed in quebec . this contradicts what prime minister trudeau is saying , which is that we have a hard deadline of june 26 for the withdrawal of our troops for operation laser . that means taking our troops out of our long-term care facilities . minister , is june 26 the hard date for the winding down of operation laser ? hon . bill blair : thank you very much , madam chair . i 'm delighted to have the opportunity to clarify for the house . we 've been in very extensive discussions with the province of quebec , with my counterpart minister guilbault , and we are working very diligently to ensure we have a sustained , appropriate response to the request from quebec for assistance . that response will result in a transition from the currently deployed canadian armed forces to the deployment of paid volunteers , trained personnel who will take on the important role of providing services to those canadians who need our help in quebec . mr. james bezan : i 'll go back to the minister of national defence . the department of national defence auditors have called out the liberal government for mismanagement over the $ 553-billion investment in our canadian military through the defence policy . only three people have been assigned to oversee the rollout of this money . this is a $ 553-billion investment in our armed forces , and only three people are managing it . could the minister tell us how that is even possible ? is this the reason that over 100 projects are currently behind schedule ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : madam chair , first of all , i want to highlight the unprecedented investment that we 're making in defence . we have conducted internal reviews of our procurement . the report the member opposite is talking about is from the previous year . this is the ongoing work we 're doing to make sure that we make procurement better . when it comes to the management of this , it 's conducted by me and the minister of procurement . we are working toward making our procurement even better . we have already streamlined some aspects of our procurement and we 'll continue to do more as well . mr. james bezan : minister sajjan , you 've had this report since november of 2019 . you 've been rolling out this plan since 2017 . only three people are overseeing an expenditure of $ 553 billion . this is taxpayers ' money . are we going to see more cuts because you have been unable to actually roll out these dollars ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : madam chair , i can assure you we 're not going to be cutting . we 'll be investing in our defence . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : before i go to the next speaker , i want to remind members that they are to address their questions and comments directly through the chair . we will go now to the honourable member for fort mcmurraycold lake , mr. yurdiga . mr. david yurdiga ( fort mcmurraycold lake , cpc ) : madam chair , the canada summer jobs program has many challenges . i 've seen many indigenous communities in my riding rejected for funding even though they had received funding in previous years . here are a few examples of communities that were rejected : beaver lake cree nation , buffalo lake mtis settlement and the mtis nation of alberta , region 1 . the list goes on . could the prime minister explain why so many indigenous communities have been denied funding from the canada summer jobs program ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , we recognize the important role that the canada summer jobs program plays in supporting employers and young workers in our community across the country every year . we 're working very hard to help employers adapt to the realities of the covid-19 pandemic and are supporting young canadians as they begin to look for summer employment . we are introducing increased flexibilities into the canada summer jobs program to hire youth , while also providing more supports to employers that deliver essential services to canadians . mr. david yurdiga : madam chair , that did n't really answer my question . why are so many indigenous communities left out of the canada summer jobs program ? this is very important to my community and to communities throughout the province . will the government investigate why these communities were rejected ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , i want to assure the honourable member that we , of course , value the important role that the canada summer jobs program plays in all communities , including indigenous communities in canada . i will certainly have an off-line conversation with the honourable member , if he so wishes , about a particular issue , but i can assure him that in the context of the covid-19 pandemic , we have had to assist employers to introduce flexibilities the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go back to mr. yurdiga . mr. david yurdiga : madam chair , in my riding , the city of cold lake has been in dispute with the federal government for many years over payment in lieu of taxes . my office has sent many letters over the years regarding the pilt dispute . could the minister of public services and procurement give me a rough estimate of when i will receive a response from the minister 's office to my first letter , from 2017 , and my letters from 2018 , 2019 and 2020 ? hon . david lametti : madam chair , i can assure the honourable member that i will go to the minister , and we will come back with an answer to his question . mr. david yurdiga : how much longer does the minister intend to perpetuate the ongoing pilt dispute , which is in excess of $ 11 million , with the city of cold lake ? hon . david lametti : madam chair , once again , i can assure the honourable member that i will speak with the minister and get an answer to his question . mr. david yurdiga : well , do you know what ? i 've been writing letters to the department for many years . when you say you 're going to get back to me , i really have a hard time believing that . will the minister agree to follow the prior recommendations of the dispute advisory panel that were accepted by the minister ? hon . david lametti : madam chair , i can assure the honourable member that i will check with the minister and that she will return to the member in due course . mr. david yurdiga : madam chair , the drug trikafta has been proven to increase the quality of life for 90 % of cystic fibrosis patients . two weeks ago , my office sent a letter to the minister of health about the boy in my riding named cael , who through the special access program is able to get trikafta in canada . i requested that the minister use her powers to fast-track trikafta for commercial use , but i have yet to receive a response back . when will the minister make a decision on trikafta ? hon . patty hajdu : madam chair , i 'm glad to hear that cael was able to access trikafta through the special access program . in fact , that program is very helpful for people who are seeking access to medication that 's not currently marketed in canada . as the member opposite knows , vertex has not applied to market trikafta in canada , but we look forward to their application , and i encourage him to write a letter to the manufacturer to also encourage them . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go now to the honourable member for vancouver granville , ms. wilson-raybould . hon . jody wilson-raybould ( vancouver granville , ind . ) : thank you , chair . i was very troubled to hear that a cbc radio host in the yukon felt compelled to resign because , as an indigenous person , she could not speak her truth . while we know the broadcasting act states that the canadian broadcasting system should reflect the linguistic duality and multicultural and multiracial nature of canadian society and the special place of indigenous peoples , it would seem there are some challenges . therefore , does the minister of heritage share the concern of some journalists that problems of systemic racism in canada are still existing within the institution of the cbc , and will the government now acknowledge the need to recognize the jurisdiction of indigenous governments ? hon . steven guilbeault ( minister of canadian heritage ) : thank you , madame chair ; and i thank the member for this important question . as stated by the prime minister on numerous occasions , our government recognizes that systemic racism exists in canada , and we have made a commitment to do everything we can to combat it in whichever organization of the canadian government . hon . jody wilson-raybould : thank you . when i was in the government , and as a minister , i learned the term red meat issues . i understand these issues to be ones that challenge societal norms , that are not politically expedient to address because they can lose you votes , even though addressing them is morally right and a smart thing to do . mostly these are issues addressing inequality and the most marginalized in our society . in the justice system , examples include mandatory minimum penalties , defunding police , and even investing in restorative justice . red-meat issues often become defining issues for society and for governments as the world changes . surely now these issues are politically less of a consideration than the tragic reality of even more slain indigenous canadians at the hands of police , or thousands of indigenous people still incarcerated or living in poverty . will this government please finally commit to the necessary work originally promised in 2015 and repeal in the justice system the vast majority of mandatory minimum penalties , assuring the necessary discretion for judges , and meaningfully invest in restorative justice measures ? hon . david lametti : madame chair , i thank the honourable member for her question , as well as for her work as minister of justice , and indeed my predecessor . this is an important time . this is a time when we recognize systemic racism . this is a time when we recognize systemic over-incarceration of indigenous peoples , of black peoples , in our criminal justice system . this is a time when we need to look at all potential options to reduce what is a shameful overrepresentation in our criminal justice system . too often racialized peoples and indigenous peoples have experienced prejudice and systemic discrimination in our justice system , and that has to change . hon . jody wilson-raybould : i 'll go on to another red meat issue . in british columbia we are in the fifth year of the opioid overdose public health emergency crisis . sadly , may marks the deadliest month of overdose-related deaths . we are halfway into the year and have currently passed 500 deaths caused by overdose . many of the deaths are related to covid-19 measures that have prevented people from accessing supervised consumption sites , so they are overdosing alone . while the provinces welcomed the federal backing of safe supply exemption back in march , it is to expire in september of 2020 . echoing the call of the chief coroner of b.c . and dr. henry , more is needed from the federal government , more action . will the government provide the necessary supports to the province and help support safe supply initiatives in the provinces ? hon . patty hajdu : it 's been a pleasure to work with the province of british columbia on innovative ways to work on the tragic situation of opioid overdose . i remain committed to working with the province and in fact any province that wants to work towards solutions that treat people who use substances with the dignity they deserve . madam chair , this is a complex issue . we 're working closely with our partners to make sure that we can prevent more lives from being lost . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable member for south okanaganwest kootenay , mr. cannings . mr. richard cannings ( south okanaganwest kootenay , ndp ) : thank you , madam chair . i 'll be splitting my time with the member for skeenabulkley valley . in my riding , theo 's in penticton is a beloved restaurant . they 've been serving great food for 40 years , but now they 're struggling , because they do n't qualify for the emergency wage subsidy . why is that ? the original owners retired last year and sold it to another operator . the new owner ca n't use a year-to-year comparison to apply for the wage subsidy because he did n't own the restaurant last spring . he is forced to use receipts from january and february , the darkest doldrums of the restaurant year , to compare with the results from may , traditionally one of their best months . now he has to compete with other local restaurants that can access the subsidy . when will the government fix this inequity and let theo 's compete and survive ? hon . mona fortier : madam chair , the canada emergency wage subsidy is supporting over 2.5 million workers across the country . to help even more businesses support their workers and rehire people as they reopen , our government is extending the cews , and we will continue to extend the cews for an additional 12 weeks to august 29 to ensure that canadian workers continue to have the support they need during these very difficult times . by extending eligibility , our government is ensuring that more canadian workers in more sectors have the support they need . mr. richard cannings : the owner just wants to be able to apply for the wage subsidy , and right now he can not , and he will not be able to . thousands of other businesses are hit that way as well . i 'd like to move on to forestry . canada 's forest sector has been declared essential during this pandemic , but it 's been hit hard after a very difficult 2019 . despite soft markets and thousands out of work , government support programs have left many canadian forest product companies behind . in my riding , the pulp mill in castlegar is closing for the month of july because local sawmills are n't producing enough wood chips . what is the government going to do to finally support canadian forestry workers and communities ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the time is almost up , but i will allow for the answer from the honourable minister . hon . seamus o'regan : thank you , madam chair . we have supported and we will continue to support the forestry sector , including through regional development programs . in fact , in quebec , partnering with les bois francs dv inc. , we have widened market access to our products and updated technology systems . in north bay we 've partnered with the canadian wood council to promote the sector . in vancouver we 're working with fpinnovations to create the indigenous forest sector technical support program . we are supporting the forestry sector and its different needs region by region . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : now we go to the honourable member for skeenabulkley valley , mr. bachrach . mr. taylor bachrach ( skeenabulkley valley , ndp ) : thank you , madam chair . i 'm going to pick up where my colleague left off , with b.c . 's forest industry . what we 've seen in b.c . are multiple rounds of mill shutdowns and start-ups , and in some cases this has made it difficult for forestry workers to qualify for ei . my question to the minister is this : will the minister work to make the ei program more flexible for forestry workers , similar to what this government has done for oil and gas workers ? hon . seamus o'regan : madam chair , in the oil and gas sector we have focused on workers . that has been key in the inactive and orphan well program , which we are working on with the provincial governments of saskatchewan , british columbia and alberta . the focus on workers has assured that success , and we will continue to focus on workers in all the industries , particularly our natural resource industry , as they go through this extraordinarily difficult time . mr. taylor bachrach : madam chair , reforestation is a very important part of the forest industry in the riding i represent , and people were keenly interested to hear this government 's plan to plant two billion trees in the next 10 years . that 's a lot of trees . i 'm wondering if the minister could tell us how many trees are going to be planted under this program by the end of this season . hon . seamus o'regan : madam chair , this government is committed to two billion trees . we are working with forestry associations , the industry and with individual companies to ensure this tree-planting season will be one of the largest the country has ever seen . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the floor goes to the honourable member for rivire-du-nord . mr. rhal fortin ( rivire-du-nord , bq ) : madamchair , last week , the government introduced billc-17 and the minister of justice sent us briefing notes in which he said that it was important to suspend a number of time limits and to extend others , and that the failure to do so could have important repercussions on canadians , their families , their situations , their finances and their ability to exercise their rights . we in the bloc qubcois agree with that . when are we going to talk about it ? hon . david lametti : madamchair , the contents of billc-17 are clearly very important . we have addressed the mandatory time limits in federal legislation as well as certain time limits that courts may not be able to handle . it is very important that we address this issue . that is why the law the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr.fortin , you have the floor . mr. rhal fortin : madamchair , we agree that it is important . i concur . the minister 's briefing notes say that , among other things , when it comes to divorcewhich means children are involved people are waiting on custody rights , child support and visitation rights . the minister pointed out that the national security review would require consultations if no decision is made in the prescribed time frame . it could pose a national security risk . it is really a big deal . when are we going to debate it ? hon . david lametti : madamchair , i completely agree with my honourable colleague . the issue needs to be addressed . that is why it is in the bill . that is another reason to debate the bill . i beseech my colleagues opposite to debate it with us . mr. rhal fortin : madamchair , what a coincidence , because i beseech my colleague opposite to debate it with us . that is what we are asking . last week , the leader of the bloc qubcois asked the liberal government to debate billc-17 today . he did not get an answer . it does not seem to matter . richard wagner , the chief justice of the supreme court , who is hardly a dimwit or greenhorn , told us that the justice system needs to be modernized . as recently as this past saturday in lapresse , justice wagner said that it is essential that the criminal code be amended to address the backlog of court proceedings . when will the liberal government opposite pull up its socks , do its job , govern the federation , sit down with the opposition and discuss the vital matters in billc-17 ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , if i were my colleague , i would be a little embarrassed , because the bill was sent to the bloc qubcois several days in advance . they received a technical note several days in advance . we were all available to take questions . when we asked for the support of the bloc qubcois and the other parties to debate itwe were not even asking them to vote in favour of the billthey refused . mr. rhal fortin : madamchair , we never refused to debate it . actually , we were the ones who asked to debate it . what exactly does debate it mean ? we set some conditions . for example , we asked the liberals to put the money back into the wage subsidy fund and to commit to dip into it no longer . are we asking too much of our colleagues opposite ? hon . pablo rodriguez : can my colleague explain to me what the emergency wage subsidy has to do with a bill about justice ? this is an absolutely fundamental piece of legislation . we wanted to debate it , but they refused to do so . mr. rhal fortin : madamchair , i would like nothing better than to explain it to him , but i must remind him that he is the leader of the party in power , the party that is supposed to govern the country . so i do not know why he is asking me that . my party proposed that we debate this today but we did not get an answer . meanwhile , court time limits are running out and people are losing rights . i am thinking of families , child support , child custody , labour law disputes in federal court , marine transportation , interprovincial transportation , aviation , banks , and those with grievances waiting for a federal court ruling . the whole system , the supreme court and the court of appeal , everything is on hold because nobody in the government wants to do their job . we want to discuss billc-17 . when can we talk about it ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , we have done our job . we have introduced the bill . we informed them in advance . we told them they could ask us any questions they wanted . we asked for a debate in the house . however , when we asked the bloc qubcois if they wanted to debate the bill , they said no , instead of doing what they usually do and saying yes . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable member for essex , mr. lewis . mr. chris lewis ( essex , cpc ) : thank you , madam chair . when the cerb runs out , many workers in my riding of essex will not have sufficient hours to collect their ei benefits . in early july , the midnight shift at chrysler will be eliminated . because of the shutdown , a mom-to-be who had just returned to work in january , and several hundred of her fellow employees , may not have the 600 hours required for regular or ei parental benefits . immediate action is needed . what is the government doing now to backstop these workers ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , the canada emergency response benefit has been providing much-needed help to canadian workers across the country who have stopped working due to covid-19 . we know that there is still a lot of uncertainty for many canadian workers , and we know that many will be exhausting their benefits in the weeks to come . we will have more to share soon , as early as this week , on our continuing efforts to support canadian workers and make sure that help is available during this the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : go ahead , mr. lewis . mr. chris lewis : thank you , minister , for the answer . the ei system needs to be fixed . even before the shutdown , the system was deeply flawed . will this government commit to a complete review and overhaul of the ei system ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , we have been there for canadian workers . we will continue to make sure that we make the necessary investments in the ei delivery system and modernize it to continue to meet the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go back to mr. lewis . mr. chris lewis : thank you , madam chair . small businesses have been hit extremely hard by the covid-19 shutdown . many have already been forced into bankruptcy . much uncertainty lies ahead . as the economy reopens , what is the government doing to help small businesses recover ? hon . mary ng : madam chair , today we are seeing small businesses that have been helped , whether it is getting access to the small business loan , which some are also using in the restart as they are safely restarting , or getting help with their payroll , helping them keep their employees the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go back to mr. lewis . mr. chris lewis : thank you , madam chair . employees are key to a small business 's success . how will the government incentivize workers to return to their jobs when recalled ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable minister can give a brief answer . hon . mary ng : the canada emergency wage subsidy is an excellent program to help those employees stay employed and for those employers who are looking at rehiring them right now during this restart process . mr. chris lewis : madam chair , many of my constituents are in a committed cross-border relationship and have not been able to see their partners in quite some time . the current restrictions are arbitrary . denmark has found a fair resolution . will canada adopt the danish model , and if not , why not ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , as we said from the outset , we 've implemented restrictions at the u.s. border on non-essential travel with a single purpose in mind : to protect the health and safety of canadians . as the member is aware , just last week we introduced new measures that allow people in family relationships to stay together as long as they commit to the necessary 14-day period of quarantine . we 'll continue to work with families . our intention is to keep people together , but mostly to keep people safe . mr. chris lewis : madam chair , with regard to child care , as our economy continues to open , parents are facing a stark choice : who will care for their children ? what 's the plan to provide access to child care so parents can confidently return to work ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , we are of course committed to continuing to make the record investments that we 've been making in child care . since 2015 we 've created over 40,000 affordable child care spaces . we 're committed to creating an additional 250,000 before-school and after-school child care spaces . we will continue to invest in this sector because we understand that without investment the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go back to mr. lewis . mr. chris lewis : thank you , madam chair . it sounds as though this government has a desire to force parents to choose between their job and care for their child . can the government please respond to that quote ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , nothing could be further from the truth . we are committed to the child care sector . our investments and our results prove the opposite of what the member is asserting . mr. chris lewis : madam chair </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the economic update and systemic racism . </s> the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : i call this meeting to order . welcome to meeting number 22 of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . a reminder to all members that in order to avoid issues with sound , members participating in person should not also be connected to the video conference . for those joining via video conference , i would like to remind you that , when speaking , you should be on the same channel as the language you are speaking . as usual , please direct your remarks through the chair . i understand we do n't have any ministerial announcements today , so we 'll proceed to presenting petitions . i would like to remind members that any petition presented during a meeting of the special committee must have already been certified by the clerk of petitions . for members participating in person , we ask that they please come and drop the signed certificate off at the table once the petition is presented . the first petition will be presented by ms.may . ms. elizabeth may ( saanichgulf islands , gp ) : mr . chair , it 's an honour to rise in meeting number 22 of the covid-19 committee , otherwise known as something like the house of commons . i 'm here to present two petitions containing hundreds of signatures on the issue of the treatment of falun gong practitioners by the people 's republic of china , particularly the practice that 's alleged of involuntary organ harvesting . the petitioners ask the government of canada to condemn this practice and to publicly call for an end to the persecution of falun gong in the people 's republic of china . the second petition is from residents throughout saanichgulf islands concerned about what was , at the time this petition was submitted , a future problem . it remains an issue , and i present it on behalf of petitioners who wish the government of canada not to put public funds into purchasing or maintaining the trans mountain pipeline or towards any expansion of the pipeline . the chair : next we 'll go to ms. kwan . ms. jenny kwan ( vancouver east , ndp ) : mr . chair , i rise to table two petitions . the first petition deals with the covid-19 situation . the petitioners note the pandemic is having a devastating impact on many canadians nationwide , especially those who have low to modest income , small business gig workers , freelancers , artists , film industry workers , non-salaried workers and individuals on fixed incomes such as seniors and those on disability . it further notes that rent , mortgage and utility payments are due at the end of each month , putting countless canadians at risk of losing their housing . it is paramount there be safe self-isolation opportunities for all individuals in this country . to that end , the petitioners are calling for the government to immediately enact a nationwide rent freeze , eviction freeze , mortgage freeze and utility freeze , enforce mortgage deferrals for homeowners without penalty or interest charges from financial institutions and provide direct assistance in the form of a monthly , universal , direct payment of $ 2,000 per month for all , with an additional $ 250 per child immediately . the second petition deals with the trans mountain pipeline expansion . these petitioners join the hundreds of thousands of people who are opposed to the expansion . trans mountain , in building the pipeline , brings massive environmental and economic risk with no substantial benefit to british columbia or to local residents . approximately 40,000 barrels of oil have already leaked from existing kinder morgan pipelines , including two major spills in burnaby since 2007 . i might note , mr . chair , that just this past weekend there was yet another spill to the tune of 1,195 barrels here in british columbia . there is no known scientific technology to clean up the bitumen when there is a spill , and the number of tankers would go from eight to 34 per month into the burrard inlet . it puts at risk many residential neighbourhoods and the traditional territories of at least 15 first nations . the chair : may i interrupt for a moment , ms. kwan . i want to remind all members in the house that when presenting a petition , the idea is to be as concise as possible . ms. kwan , i 'll let you wrap up , please . ms. jenny kwan : thank you , mr . chair . the petitioners are calling for the government to immediately act to prevent this new oil pipeline from proceeding through british columbia . the chair : thank you . we 'll now go to mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis ( sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , cpc ) : mr . chair , i have four petitions to present today . the first petition reflects the outrage of my constituents at the ever-expanding order in council from the government banning more and more firearms . in particular , the petitioners highlight the failure of the government to act on the issue of illegal guns . the petitioners note that virtually all violent crimes committed in canada , including the recent shooting in nova scotia , involve illegal firearms in the hands of those who are already not permitted to possess them . the petition has two asks . first of all , it asks that we reverse the order in council banning certain firearms , but also that we propose measures that will effectively address the illegal use of firearms by criminals while respecting the rights of law-abiding citizens . it also asks that we ensure that substantial changes to firearms laws in future actually be made by parliament , not by the government acting in an unaccountable manner . the second petition deals with bill c-8 , which is the government 's bill around conversion therapy . the petitioners support efforts to ban conversion therapy . they express concern about problems in the wording of the definition used in the legislation . they 're asking the government to support amendments to fix the definition to address the issue of conversion therapy and ensure that the definition is correct and does n't criminalize certain forms of counselling that individuals may voluntarily enter into . the third petition is regarding bill s-204 , a bill in the senate that seeks to make it a criminal offence for a person to go abroad to receive an organ without consent , dealing especially with the horrific practice of forced organ harvesting and trafficking in china . the petitioners are supportive of bill s-204 and want to see it move forward . the final petition is with respect to bill c-7 . there 's been much discussion in this house about the need to do better in terms of long-term care . rather than working to do better in long-term care , unfortunately we 've seen the government removing vital safeguards in the area of euthanasia . i think our focus should be on assisting life rather than removing safeguards that are required in association with the euthanasia regime . the petitioners are particularly concerned about the government 's plan to remove a 10-day reflection period that normally takes place . that period can already be waived under certain circumstances , but bill c-7 proposes to remove it entirely as well as reduce the number of witnesses involved . the petitioners are quite concerned about what 's going on in bill c-7 and call for it to be stopped or amended . the chair : presenting petitions . we 'll proceed to statements by members . we 'll start off with mr. manly . mr. paul manly ( nanaimoladysmith , gp ) : mr . chair , we are in the midst of a global pandemic and an economic shock . recent events have ripped open the wound of systemic racism in our country . racialized and marginalized communities have been disproportionally affected by the pandemic . thousands of seniors in long-term care facilities have died . it is clear that we need system change . in the past , governments have bailed out banks and corporations because they were too big to fail . it is time to bail out humanity and the planet . no one will be immune from the threat of climate change and mass extinction . both are the result of the exploitation of the natural world in the name of the economy . humans created the economy . we can choose to change it . we must protect our environment or perish . covid-19 has demonstrated that together we can take courageous action for the common good . we need to do the same for the climate crisis , because humanity and our planet are too big to fail . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. spengemann . mr. sven spengemann ( mississaugalakeshore , lib . ) : mr. speaker , today marks world elder abuse awareness day . underestimated and under-reported , elder abuse exists across the world . at risk of neglect and assault , many of the most vulnerable older persons reside in our long-term care facilities . they are the seniors who have built our country and shaped our communities , who have shown us resilience , courage and selflessness , who have made us stronger , and whose work and teachings continue to inspire us . they are parents and grandparents , brothers and sisters , friends and mentors . we have not been there for them in the same way they 've been there for us throughout their lives . the canadian forces report , alongside the climbing disproportionate death toll in our long-term care facilities , has reconfirmed the ugly , indefensible reality of elder abuse and neglect in canada . in my community , we mourn the deaths of 68 seniors from one long-term care facility alone , camilla care . we must make the same unwavering commitment to older persons as they have shown to us . we must protect and uphold their human rights . we must do better . the chair : before proceeding , i just want to bring up to the members in the background that we want to keep it as simple and as parliamentary as possible in keeping it neutral . we 'll now move to mr. barrett . mr. michael barrett ( leedsgrenvillethousand islands and rideau lakes , cpc ) : during these trying times , the residents of leedsgrenvillethousand islands and rideau lakes have risen to the challenge . they 've made sacrifices and gone above and beyond to make the lives of their neighbours better and to keep our communities safe . it would be impossible to list everyone who has emerged as a community hero , but i 'd like to highlight a few , like lily , an eight-year-old from elgin who raised funds for her local food bank by building and selling squirrel picnic tables , and louise boardman from spencerville who 's making masks for long-term care facilities and selling others in support of the breast cancer action centre . the knights of columbus in prescott raised funds and are distributing some $ 27,000 in support of charitable groups throughout the region . the knights of columbus in kemptville are working overtime operating the local food bank . who can forget our top-notch health care workers like hannah and mary at the brockville covid-19 testing centre ? it is the people of leedsgrenvillethousand islands and rideau lakes that make it so great . to everyone working to make a difference and to all of our essential workers , thank you . the chair : next is mr. anandasangaree . mr. gary anandasangaree ( scarboroughrouge park , lib . ) : mr . chair , the indian act enshrined racism into canadian law in 1876 , and , through residential schools , the child welfare system , our legal system and our police , we criminalized and tore apart indigenous peoples . the deaths of chantel moore and rodney levi and the assault on chief allan adam are recent examples of systemic racism within the rcmp . sadly , the rcmp leadership has failed to acknowledge this reality and its root causes . these same systems negatively impact black canadians . anti-black racism has resulted in more young black men being jailed , children being streamed or excluded from schools and negative police interaction due to profiling . black lives matter . no single canadian is responsible for the prevalence of systemic racism ; we all are . collectively we build institutions that discriminate based on race . it is now time to reimagine and rework our institutions , starting with our police , to ensure that all canadians can achieve their truest potential . the chair : ms.larouche , you have the floor . ms. andranne larouche ( shefford , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . june15 is world elder abuse awareness day . i want to remind members of the link between abuse and the problems of economic dependency among seniors . improving their purchasing power means reducing the risk of them falling victim to abusive people . that 's why the increase in the old age security benefit and the guaranteed income supplement must be extended beyond the pandemic . in three weeks , our seniors will receive their first cheque , when they should be receiving their second . a date must also be announced for the new horizons for seniors program , which helps several groups develop projects to break the isolation of seniors . in closing , i would like to mention the organization justice alternative et mdiation that during the pandemic , along with other organizations in shefford , has set up the project une histoire pour la tienne , which also serves to mark this day . it 's a virtual meeting between young people and seniors , allowing them to exchange some inspiring life experiences . since age prejudice is very much present , i applaud this project , which aims to make us understand each other better and judge each other less . the chair : we 'll now continue with mr. sangha . mr. ramesh sangha ( brampton centre , lib . ) : mr . chair , in the time of this terrible crisis affecting all canadians , when we are all thinking about how best to deal with it , let 's all think about the people around us . let 's show our representation not only to those in the sector of sanctioned workers , but also to all those canadians who day by day stand up and make a difference . every day i am proud of the reactions of canadians to this crisis . i want to acknowledge and celebrate all the contributions made by the people of brampton centre , all religious institutions , civil society and community organizations like knights table in my riding . we are all standing together to fight covid-19 . let 's continue working hard with that same spirit to get positive results out . thank you very much . the chair : i will proceed to mr. ruff . mr. alex ruff ( brucegreyowen sound , cpc ) : mr . chair , whether graduating from elementary school , high school , georgian college or graduating from colleges or universities across the country , i am proud of the accomplishments of all the graduates across brucegreyowen sound . i would also like to congratulate and thank all the teachers and parents who have adapted to teaching online or from home and who have supported these graduates over the course of their academic careers . i 'd like to extend special congratulations to cameron lovell , who just graduated from grade eight , as well as to neebeesh and neebin elliott , originally from the nawash unceded first nation on the bruce peninsula , who will be headed to michigan state university , and to jared lumley from owen sound , who just graduated from my alma mater , the royal military college of canada . the college motto of truth , duty , valour is something all canadians should aspire to live by . i wish all the best to these graduates on their next adventures . i and canada can not wait to see how their dreams and goals impact and change the world . i congratulate brucegreyowen sound graduates . the chair : we 'll now go to mr.cormier . mr. serge cormier ( acadiebathurst , lib . ) : today i pay tribute to richardlosier , an entrepreneur , visionary and builder who died on june9 , 2020 , surrounded by his family . mr.losier is a giant in the acadian peninsula business community . in1968 , he co-founded st.isidore asphalte , a company that now has more than 200employees . he also launched many other businesses over the years . he was unifying and generous , a philanthropist who cared about young people and never missed an opportunity to improve their lives . i met mr.losier when i was 14years old , and i can say that he has been a positive influence in my life . every time i met him , he gave me a lot of advice and encouragement , which i 've never forgotten . mr.losier 's legacy to his community is invaluable . his commitment remains an example for all of us to follow . mr.losier now joins his wife , nolla . i offer my most sincere condolences to his children , richard jr. , ronald , nathalie , caroline and stphane , and to his family and friends . rest in peace , mr.losier . you will be greatly missed . thank you for everything you 've done for our region . the chair : we will now go to ms. dabrusin . ms. julie dabrusin ( torontodanforth , lib . ) : hello from my community in east end toronto . people talk about how a city the size of toronto can be cold , but that 's far from the truth in my community . i want to give a shout-out to our teachers , like mr. wong of earl grey senior public school , who delivered home-baked cookies and handwritten notes to all of his students , or monsieur steve , who 's offering online french classes , or the teachers of riverdale collegiate , who paraded through our streets to celebrate our graduates . our local michael garron hospital put out a call for community members to sew masks and received over 60,000 masks , including those made by lisa tancre of chartwell avondale retirement residence . michelle beaton organized a front window scavenger hunt to entertain children and their families . restaurants , even while facing adversity , have been generously donating food , like the members of the leslieville bia or mezes . there are so many more stories of generosity that i could share , but i 'm out of time . i thank everyone who has stepped up . we all appreciate all of their hard work . the chair : we will now go to ms. sahota . ms. jag sahota ( calgary skyview , cpc ) : mr . chair , on saturday night , calgarians , particularly those in the northeast , in my riding of calgary skyview , witnessed a devastating storm , the likes of which i have not seen in my lifetime . homes , vehicles , community buildings and structures suffered significant damage due to large hail , floods and high winds . people acted quickly to seek shelter . i 'm so grateful that there have been no reports of personal injury or loss of life . i went around the community yesterday to survey the damage . it is extensive . my heart aches for those who have been impacted by the storm in an already incredibly difficult time , but we are resilient . we know that in the coming weeks there will be a lot of cleanup required , both to personal property and in the community . i know my constituents , and we will help one another get through this together . i will work hard to do everything i can to help rebuild this community . the chair : mr.serr , you have the floor . mr. marc serr ( nickel belt , lib . ) : thank you , mr.chair . i 'd like to express my sincere gratitude to the people of west nippissing who organized pride activities to celebrate the lgbtq community in june . this week , we are also celebrating national public service week . i thank the public servants for their dedication to the nickel belt community and the valley east and rayside-balfour areas . the chair : next is mr. saroya . mr. bob saroya ( markhamunionville , cpc ) : mr . chair , when covid-19 began spreading across ontario , markham , like many other communities , was unprepared . our front-line health care workers did not have enough personal protective equipment to do their jobs safely . when markham residents heard about these shortages , my office was flooded with calls from people who had ppe and wanted to donate . since then my office has been able to deliver tens of thousands of ppe supplies to front-line health care workers and five masks to each family in need . this pandemic has shown that no matter what the challenge is , the markham community will overcome it . today , i would like to thank the front-line health care workers who are doing incredible work . i would also like to thank all those who have helped in markham 's hour of need . the chair : i understand we had a bit of a glitch there . i 'm sorry . with the pause , we thought that was the end of it . mr.serr , i would ask you to continue . i understand you started to switch languages . please continue . you have 30seconds . mr. marc serr : thank you . i 'm switching to english now . thank you to our nurses , doctors , pharmacists , cashiers , janitors . thank you to various retail workers and first responders dealing with covid-19 . you keep our communities safe and healthy , and you feed us . your dedication and sacrifice are greatly appreciated . as we start to see local businesses reopen , it is important for all of us to remember to follow best practices outlined by local public health . our front-line workers deserve our respect . it is important for all of us to respect social distancing , to protect all workers and their families . together we can remain strong and united as we continue to face this challenge together . the chair : again , my apologies for skipping over there , but now we 'll to to ms. mcleod . mrs. cathy mcleod ( kamloopsthompsoncariboo , cpc ) : mr . chair , in commemoration of italian heritage month , i would like to pay tribute to the colombo lodge and italian cultural centre in kamloops , british columbia . the colombo lodge was founded in 1914 and is an integral part of our community . recently they began colombo cares take-home dinners with proceeds distributed to different non-profit organizations throughout the region . last month they very generously gave away hundreds of dinners to royal inland hospital staff and paramedics for their tireless work throughout the pandemic . in their own words they say , colombo lodge is very proud of the italians that have made kamloops their home . community members of italian ancestrypast and presenthave helped and continue to help kamloops prosper as a giving , welcoming and inclusive community . personally , i want to thank all members for their friendship and generosity over the years . our community is forever grateful for their kindness . the chair : we 'll now proceed to mr. harris . mr. jack harris ( st. john 's east , ndp ) : mr . chair , many newfoundlanders and labradorians are facing a serious financial crisis . most people with disabilities are waiting to be included in the liberals ' promised program . fish plant workers will need support to avoid a disastrous year . many small businesses do n't qualify for programs . municipalities need emergency help to meet the crisis . people are worried about what will happen when the cerb runs out in two weeks ' time , and the coming tourism season looks very grim . the province itself is in serious financial crisis due to the pandemic and the decline in oil prices . the federal government must overhaul and enhance the fiscal stabilization program to help newfoundlanders and labradorians and other oil-producing provinces through this crisis . both the province and the oil and gas industry players have committed to net zero emissions by 2050 . this is a challenge and an opportunity to transition to a sustainable energy future , but it will require significant investment and support by government to keep the industry strong and make this a just transition for workers . much has been done . much more needs to be done . the chair : ms.gaudreau , you have the floor . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau ( laurentideslabelle , bq ) : mr.chair , all 44elected municipal officials in the riding of laurentideslabelle and i have sent a letter to the government asking that cellular and high-speed internet networks be made available to all . the crisis has accelerated the demonstration of the need for these networks in daily life . the territorial complexity of the laurentians means that there are areas where the signal is weak , unstable or non-existent . there is an urgent and essential need to change the infrastructure of the current networks . also , because of the lockdown , internet failures are being felt , and they prevent distance learning , telemedicine and teleworking , among other things . how can our municipalities develop economically if they ca n't provide their community with adequate communication tools ? we are therefore calling on the government to put the interests of its people first by investing massively right now in the construction of high-speed internet and cellular infrastructure . the chair : mr. waugh . mr. kevin waugh ( saskatoongrasswood , cpc ) : i rise today to pay tribute to sir winston churchill , the former prime minister of great britain and one of the greatest leaders history has ever known . in what can only be called a lifetime of service , churchill 's contributions to the commonwealth and to the world are without equal . during the second world war he led the allied forces in europe against the tyranny and fascism of adolph hitler and his nazi regime . when our world was in its darkest hour , churchill 's leadership was a beacon of hope and freedom . i am reminded of something he once said , all the greatest things are simple , and many can be expressed in a single word : freedom , justice , honour , duty , mercy , hope . sir winston churchill himself embodied all of these great things and will forever be a symbol of freedom , democracy and hope . the chair : mr. gerretsen . mr. mark gerretsen ( kingston and the islands , lib . ) : mr . chair , i would like to add my voice to the recognition and celebration of pride month , which is celebrated annually during june . pride month is important for canadians because we can be proud of who we are and celebrate our diversity . this june is different from previous years as we can not celebrate in person all together . however , i know the ongoing pandemic will not stop us from showing our love and support for the lgbtq+ community . to celebrate pride month this year , my office distributed 3,000 pride maple leaf pins across the country ; whoever asked received one . although the majority was sent to constituents in my riding , over 500 pins were sent to the neighbouring ridings of lanarkfrontenackingston , leedsgrenvillethousand islands and rideau lakes , and hastingslennox and addington . it warms my heart to see so many canadians showing their support . happy pride , everyone . the chair : we will now proceed to the questioning of ministers . please note that we will suspend the proceedings twice to allow employees who provide support for the sitting to substitute for each other safely . mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell ( louis-saint-laurent , cpc ) : mr.chair , i am very pleased to take part in today 's meeting of this parliamentary committee . canada has been dealing with the covid-19 pandemic for three months now . the situation now seems to be improving , although we must remain vigilant . economically , business people and the entire canadian economy depend on government decisions . my question is very simple : when will the economic update take place ? hon . chrystia freeland ( deputy prime minister and minister of intergovernmental affairs ) : mr.chair , i thank the hon . member for his question . i agree with him that canada and canadians are doing an excellent and difficult job in the fight against coronavirus . as for the economy , our government is there for canadians , for workers and for businesses , and it will continue to be . mr. grard deltell : canadians , business people and businesses want to know where the government is headed . when will the economic update take place ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , canadians know that the government is there to support them . eight the chair : we return to mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : canadians and quebeckers also know that the government of quebec will table its economic update this week . why is n't the federal government doing the same ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i 'm pleased to explain to hon . members and to canadians what the government is doing for the economy the chair : we return to mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr . chair , it is a real pleasure for me to explain to the minister and everybody in the house of commons that today the saskatchewan government will table its economic update . why ca n't ottawa do that ? the chair : the honourable deputy prime minister . hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i 'm delighted to have the opportunity to share with canadians what our government is doing to support workers , businesses and the economy . eight million canadians have received the cerb , essential support for canadian workers and their families . the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr . chair , 11 days ago the newfoundland government tabled its own economic update . we see governments acting correctly for their people , except for the liberal government , which can not table an economic update . when will the liberal government table an economic update , which canadians would like to see ? the chair : the honourable deputy prime minister . hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i am delighted to share with the member opposite and with canadians what we are doing practically that has meaning for canadians . let me talk about what we are doing for canadian businesses . nearly 670,000 canadian businesses have received support the chair : we 'll go back to mr. deltell . mr. grard deltell : in canada , the quebec government will table its economic update this week . the saskatchewan government tabled its economic update today . the newfoundland government has tabled its economic update . everybody is working hard in canada , and the business community would like to know where the liberal government is going . the question is crystal clear . when will the liberal government table an economic update ? the chair : the honourable deputy prime minister . hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , canadian workers and canadian businesses want to know that our government is here to support them . i have shared with this house our support for canadian workers through the cerb . i 've spoken about the ceba , and let me point out that more than $ 26 billion of support has been given through that essential program . let me talk about the wage subsidy . more than 2.6 million the chair : we 'll return to mr. deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , this is starting to get interesting ; the minister is revealing some of these expenses . could the minister tell us how much the government has spent in the last three months ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i will continue in french by explaining what our government is doing for canadians and workers the chair : mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr . chair , this is a little bit concerning for all canadians , because this government can not say when they will table the economic update , can not identify how much money they have spent in the last three months and can not say what is the deficit of canada . is somebody in this government running this country correctly ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , absolutely we are running this country , and we are supporting our economy . in fact , we appreciate that canada currently is experiencing its greatest economic crisis since the great depression . that is why we have devoted nearly 11 % of gdp to support canadian workers and canadian businesses . i want to assure canadians the chair : we 'll now continue with ms.normandin . ms.normandin , you have the floor . ms. christine normandin ( saint-jean , bq ) : mr.chair , there are times when quebec and the provinces are not just two solitudes , but they get along and speak as one , such as when the time comes to tell the government to mind its own business . on reading section91 of the constitution act , 1982 , which sets out the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal government , nowhere do i find that the federal government must meddle by attaching conditions to health transfers . it is quebec and the provinces that hire the medical personnel , doctors , nurses and caretakers . it is quebec and the provinces that are responsible for purchasing the necessary equipment . it is quebec and the provinces that know what is happening on the ground and what their needs are . will the government do the only thing within its authority , which is to take the cheque , sign it and put it in the mail ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i thank the hon . member for her question . we fully understand the importance of federal support for the provinces , especially in our national fight against the coronavirus . i agree with the hon . member that we must give financial support to the provinces , including quebec absolutely . i would also like to point out the importance of the support of the canadian armed forces , who are doing an important and excellent job in quebec and ontario today , right now . ms. christine normandin : mr.chair , i am glad to see that there is recognition of the importance of transferring this money . my question is whether it can be transferred unconditionally ; that 's what i 'm asking . there 's a state of emergency . in the past , we have seen that it takes a long time to negotiate conditions with the federal government . we saw it in the case of the quebec city tramway , and we are still seeing it now in the case of transfers for housing in quebec , for which there is no agreement and , therefore , no transfer of money . will the federal government send the money free of conditions ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , the hon . member said in her first question that the only thing the federal government had to do on health care was to sign the cheques . i ca n't agree because , today , at this time , at the request of the premier of quebec , the men and women of the canadian armed forces are in quebec today ; they 're there to save the lives of seniors the chair : we now return to ms.normandin . ms. christine normandin : it was indeed at quebec 's request . what i 'm saying is that , at present , the provinces are unanimously asking that there be no conditions . it 's urgent that the money be transferred . the federal government 's job here is to sign the cheque and send it to the provinces . the government 's job is also to make parliament work . this is where there should be negotiations so that we can work , among other things , to send money to people living with disabilities , to make sure we fight cerb fraud and to make sure that court time limits are effective in the current crisis . can the government focus on the issue in order to respect the provinces and transfer money for health care ? hon . chrystia freeland : i thank the hon . member for her question , mr.chair . i agree with the hon . member that the women and men of the canadian armed forces are in quebec today at the request of the province of quebec . that said , i hope that the hon . member will agree with me that being there for quebec 's seniors , that saving the lives of quebec 's seniors , is much more than simply signing cheques . i am very proud of the work the women and men of the canadian armed forces are doing . i think we all should thank these people who are working for canada , for quebec , and who are doing an important and excellent job . ms. christine normandin : mr.chair , i think the deputy prime minister misunderstood me when i was talking about the importance of acting quickly . negotiations between the government and the provinces take an awfully long time because the federal government decides to place conditions where there should n't be any . right now , the only important thing is to transfer the money quickly so that it can be used in our hospitals and our long-term care facilities , where the need is desperate . quebec and the provinces know exactly what their needs are . hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i would like to point out the extent to which the federal government is there to support the provinces , including quebec . we have increased funding to the provinces and territories by $ 500million to help them prepare for covid-19 outbreaks . this funding is in addition to the $ 40billion that we already provide annually to the provinces and territories . that 's a lot of money . it is strong endorsement the chair : we 'll now go to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : mr . chair , systemic racism is killing people . it 's killing black people and it 's killing indigenous people . recently , rodney levi was another victim of systemic racism . he was killed in new brunswick by the rcmp . to deal with systemic racism , we need systemic change . will the liberal government commit to systemic change so that not another life is ever taken again ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i thank the member opposite for the extremely important question , and i 'll take this opportunity to acknowledge the work that he has done for many years fighting racism in canada . our government absolutely acknowledges that systemic racism exists in canada . it exists in all of our institutions , including the police and the rcmp . i agree with the member opposite that now is the moment to fight this the chair : mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , i thank the deputy prime minister very much for the response , but there are some specific actions we need to take . there are movements . black lives matter , as a movement , is calling for the defunding of police . what they 're saying is we need to make better choices with how money is being spent . when someone is in need of a wellness check or a mental health check , money , financing and support should go to mental health workers and health care workers , not the police . is the government prepared to fund and prioritize health care workers over the police ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the member quite rightly began his questions by speaking about systemic racism against indigenous people in canada , and i would like to speak about that for a moment . i spoke to perry bellegarde this morning , because it is such a crucial issue . we can describe it as the original sin of our country . i absolutely agree that we need root and branch reform , including in how policing is done in canada . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , will the liberal government commit to a review of the use of force as outlined for the rcmp ? will the liberals commit to that change ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the prime minister and the minister of public safety had many conversations last week with the rcmp . we all accept that the chair : we 'll go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , will the government commit to ensuring that de-escalation receives priority ? hon . chrystia freeland : let me continue , mr . chair . systemic racism exists in all of our federal institutions , including the rcmp . it 's time to put an end to it . let me just say the chair : we 'll go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , i 'm not getting an answer . will the prime minister or the liberal government commit to something simple and ensure that at the federal level , racial profiling , street checks and carding are expressly prohibited ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , sadly , i ca n't agree that rooting out systemic racism is going to be simple , but i can agree that racial profiling is absolutely inappropriate . it is not something that we should the chair : we 'll go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : well , i 'm going to try to get another commitment from the government , because they do n't seem able to commit to something as clear as ending racial profiling . we know that millions of canadians in a couple of weeks are going to be faced with the reality of their cerb ending . these families are worried about how they 're going to put food on the table , because they ca n't return to a job . will the liberal government commit today so that those families will have some concrete support , yes or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , let me be clear , as i was in my previous answer , that our government clearly is opposed to racial profiling . this is a wrong practice and we 're very clear about our position there . now when it comes to the cerb , i absolutely share the concern of the member opposite . the canadian economy is in its direst state since the great depression . we know that all the jobs have not yet come back . we know that canadian workers , canadian families , continue to need </s>
<s> what did christine normandin think about federal support for the provinces ? </s> ms. christine normandin ( saint-jean , bq ) : mr.chair , there are times when quebec and the provinces are not just two solitudes , but they get along and speak as one , such as when the time comes to tell the government to mind its own business . on reading section91 of the constitution act , 1982 , which sets out the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal government , nowhere do i find that the federal government must meddle by attaching conditions to health transfers . it is quebec and the provinces that hire the medical personnel , doctors , nurses and caretakers . it is quebec and the provinces that are responsible for purchasing the necessary equipment . it is quebec and the provinces that know what is happening on the ground and what their needs are . will the government do the only thing within its authority , which is to take the cheque , sign it and put it in the mail ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i thank the hon . member for her question . we fully understand the importance of federal support for the provinces , especially in our national fight against the coronavirus . i agree with the hon . member that we must give financial support to the provinces , including quebec absolutely . i would also like to point out the importance of the support of the canadian armed forces , who are doing an important and excellent job in quebec and ontario today , right now . ms. christine normandin : mr.chair , i am glad to see that there is recognition of the importance of transferring this money . my question is whether it can be transferred unconditionally ; that 's what i 'm asking . there 's a state of emergency . in the past , we have seen that it takes a long time to negotiate conditions with the federal government . we saw it in the case of the quebec city tramway , and we are still seeing it now in the case of transfers for housing in quebec , for which there is no agreement and , therefore , no transfer of money . will the federal government send the money free of conditions ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , the hon . member said in her first question that the only thing the federal government had to do on health care was to sign the cheques . i ca n't agree because , today , at this time , at the request of the premier of quebec , the men and women of the canadian armed forces are in quebec today ; they 're there to save the lives of seniors the chair : we now return to ms.normandin . ms. christine normandin : it was indeed at quebec 's request . what i 'm saying is that , at present , the provinces are unanimously asking that there be no conditions . it 's urgent that the money be transferred . the federal government 's job here is to sign the cheque and send it to the provinces . the government 's job is also to make parliament work . this is where there should be negotiations so that we can work , among other things , to send money to people living with disabilities , to make sure we fight cerb fraud and to make sure that court time limits are effective in the current crisis . can the government focus on the issue in order to respect the provinces and transfer money for health care ? hon . chrystia freeland : i thank the hon . member for her question , mr.chair . i agree with the hon . member that the women and men of the canadian armed forces are in quebec today at the request of the province of quebec . that said , i hope that the hon . member will agree with me that being there for quebec 's seniors , that saving the lives of quebec 's seniors , is much more than simply signing cheques . i am very proud of the work the women and men of the canadian armed forces are doing . i think we all should thank these people who are working for canada , for quebec , and who are doing an important and excellent job . ms. christine normandin : mr.chair , i think the deputy prime minister misunderstood me when i was talking about the importance of acting quickly . negotiations between the government and the provinces take an awfully long time because the federal government decides to place conditions where there should n't be any . right now , the only important thing is to transfer the money quickly so that it can be used in our hospitals and our long-term care facilities , where the need is desperate . quebec and the provinces know exactly what their needs are . </s>
<s> what did hon . chrystia freeland think about systemic racism ? </s> mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : mr . chair , systemic racism is killing people . it 's killing black people and it 's killing indigenous people . recently , rodney levi was another victim of systemic racism . he was killed in new brunswick by the rcmp . to deal with systemic racism , we need systemic change . will the liberal government commit to systemic change so that not another life is ever taken again ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i thank the member opposite for the extremely important question , and i 'll take this opportunity to acknowledge the work that he has done for many years fighting racism in canada . our government absolutely acknowledges that systemic racism exists in canada . it exists in all of our institutions , including the police and the rcmp . i agree with the member opposite that now is the moment to fight this the chair : mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , i thank the deputy prime minister very much for the response , but there are some specific actions we need to take . there are movements . black lives matter , as a movement , is calling for the defunding of police . what they 're saying is we need to make better choices with how money is being spent . when someone is in need of a wellness check or a mental health check , money , financing and support should go to mental health workers and health care workers , not the police . is the government prepared to fund and prioritize health care workers over the police ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the member quite rightly began his questions by speaking about systemic racism against indigenous people in canada , and i would like to speak about that for a moment . i spoke to perry bellegarde this morning , because it is such a crucial issue . we can describe it as the original sin of our country . i absolutely agree that we need root and branch reform , including in how policing is done in canada . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , will the liberal government commit to a review of the use of force as outlined for the rcmp ? will the liberals commit to that change ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the prime minister and the minister of public safety had many conversations last week with the rcmp . we all accept that the chair : we 'll go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , will the government commit to ensuring that de-escalation receives priority ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about finance and veterans . </s> hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : thank you , mr . chair . i want to thank the honourable member for that question . we know that at this time canada must show leadership in the face of global challenges . more than ever , canada is playing a positive role by being a champion in diversity and inclusion , supporting the global fight against covid-19 , addressing climate change , leading peace and security efforts and helping the most vulnerable . a seat on the security council will allow canada to be a strong voice for a fairer , more inclusive and prosperous the chair : we 'll go back to mr. barrett . mr. michael barrett : mr . chair , i received a letter from bob anderson this week , who 's advocating for his neighbours like jean grevelding , who owns a cottage at butternut bay . like many people , jean is an american who owns a property on our side of the border . these people are taxpaying members of our communities . these folks have plans in place to follow all canadian quarantine rules . they 're concerned about leaving their properties uncared for over the summer . will folks like jean be allowed to cross the border to check on their properties this summer ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . of course , our priority is and always has been and always must be the protection of the health and safety of canadians . that 's why we put in place these restrictions for non-essential travel and have required , through the public health agency of canada , a 14-day quarantine . i do n't know the specifics of the person for whom you advocate , but we want to make sure that if they come into canada , it is for an essential purpose and that they do it safely and respect the quarantine that has been put in place . mr. michael barrett : with nine branches throughout my riding , the royal canadian legion offers a great deal to veterans and rural communities alike . they have been experiencing hardship and a loss of revenue , to the point where they may be forced to shut their doors . the zone g2 commander and local mayors such as roger haley have reached out to me expressing their dire need . will the government offer support to legions across the country so they can continue to carry out their vital work for our veterans ? hon . lawrence macaulay ( minister of veterans affairs ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . yes , we have done a lot to help support groups like the legions . there is a $ 350-million emergency community support fund . if they 're supplying any help to people regarding covid , this fund is there . indeed , we 're doing everything we can to make sure that we help the legions and other groups that do so much to help veterans right across the country . mr. michael barrett : on may 21 , the minister stated that her team was working as quickly as it could to fill the gaps in ceba . it has now been three weeks , and many business owners , such as mortgage broker corinna smith-gatcke , are still left in the lurch amid the delays , which are pushing businesses closer to shutting their doors for good . will these businesses have access to ceba before it 's too late for them ? hon . mary ng : thank you , mr . chair , and i thank the honourable member for that really important question on our canadian small businesses . those businesses can absolutely have access to the loan at their financial institution this friday , and i would encourage them to go and see their bank or credit union . i want businesses to know that nothing is more important for us than making sure they get the support they need during this difficult time . mr. michael barrett : the county road 43 expansion project is critical for my riding and the region as a whole . this project will widen the road , increasing safety for the 18,000 motorists who travel the road every day . it 's been 334 days since the provincial and local governments announced funding , but there has been nothing from this liberal government . it 's been 181 days since minister mckenna told me her staff were reviewing the project . today , there is still nothing , and for the last month the minister 's team has not even found the time to respond to my request for an update . will minister mckenna finally stop with the delays and commit to funding this project today ? hon . catherine mckenna ( minister of infrastructure and communities ) : mr . chair , as the member opposite knows , we work with provinces and territories to advance our infrastructure investments . we 're making investments across the country . they are making a real difference in people 's lives . we 're always happy to work with members of parliament , but they must also work with provinces and territories so that projects are advanced by them to our office . the chair : we 'll now continue with mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall ( yorktonmelville , cpc ) : thank you , chair . through you , has mr. macaulay read ombudsman dalton 's may 2020 report , financial compensation for canadian veterans : a comparative analysis of benefit regimes ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i apologize , but i 'll have to ask my honourable colleague to repeat the question . the chair : mrs. wagantall , we 'll freeze the time so that there 's no extra time taken . mrs. cathay wagantall : thank you , chair . my question was whether mr. macaulay has read ombudsman dalton 's may 2020 report , financial compensation for canadian veterans : a comparative analysis of benefit regimes . hon . lawrence macaulay : thank you very much , mr . chair . i appreciate my honourable colleague 's question . of course , i appreciate mr. dalton 's input and all that he has done for veterans . we 've discussed it many times . i 've done everything and worked with him in order to make sure that we bring the proper compensation to veterans the chair : we 'll go back to mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : as a result of that study , are the financial outcomes canada seeks to provide for ill and injured veterans now clearly defined within the department of veterans affairs ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , as the member would know , i am to bring a report to the veterans affairs committee , and there are a number of things done in order to make sure that report is the chair : we 'll go back to mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : then i would suggest that we get our committee up and going as it should be . where are these financial directions published ? hon . lawrence macaulay : well , of course , lockdown , but just under $ 90 million that the government put in supplementary estimates to make sure we address the backlog for veterans affairs . it 's a major help the chair : we 'll go back to mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : minister , are canadian armed forces members provided with a copy of this document ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , my honourable colleague would have to ask the canadian armed forces that question . mrs. cathay wagantall : there are three different providing lifetime benefits for ill and injured veterans . in ombudsman dalton 's recent report , did any one of these three provide the best compensation in all nine scenarios that were studied ? hon . lawrence macaulay : of course , as she knows , there 's been a lot of work done in order to make sure that we provide the proper compensation to veterans . we 're working very hard , with a lot of help from mr. dalton , to make sure that the appropriate the chair : we 'll now continue with mrs. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : in the undisclosed settlement of sean bruyea 's legal case against seamus o'regan and the liberal government , a joint statement says ... canadians , especially all veterans and their families , are encouraged to enter the public debate about policies and programs that affect our veterans and their families . does mr. macaulay agree with this statement ? hon . lawrence macaulay : i can assure you that anybody is welcome to enter any discussion on compensation of veterans . we 're always open to what we can do in order to make sure that we provide appropriate compensation . i do n't think the term would be appropriate , but it would provide some compensation to veterans who truly deserve it . they defend our democracy the chair : we 'll go back to ms. wagantall . oh , i 'm sorry ms. andranne larouche : mr.chair , i have a point of order . the interpretation has n't worked for a few interventions . it 's difficult to follow the exchange between the hon . member and the minister . the chair : we 're having a problem with the interpretation . minister and ms. wagantall , you are joining us virtually . i 'm wondering if you have the right language on at the bottom of your screen . we 'll start with that for troubleshooting . mrs. cathay wagantall : i have english . the chair : very good . minister macaulay , what do you have ? hon . lawrence macaulay : i have english , mr . chair . the chair : very good . then we 'll check on our side . ms.larouche , did i understand correctly that the interpretation did n't work for both speakers ? ms. andranne larouche : the sound did n't allow the interpreters to do their job . it seemed to be a problem with the sound . the chair : in that case , i would ask both members to maybe put their mike a little bit close to their mouth . we 'll see how that works . i 'm looking at the screen , and i notice the mike is a little bit far . could we bend it in a little bit more ? i appreciate that . thank you for your patience . we 'll give it another try . ms. wagantall , please go ahead . mrs. cathay wagantall : on a point of order , quite often while i 'm trying to speak , there are lots of other voices in the background . the chair : i would ask everyone to please be on mute , as well as for anyone in the chamber to please refrain from speaking loudly . just whisper among yourselves if you have something to say . we 'll take this one from the top . we have a minute and 45 seconds left . ms. wagantall , please proceed with your next question . mrs. cathay wagantall : you said next question , so we 're not going backwards , chair ? the chair : did we have an answer from minister macaulay ? no ? we 'll go to minister macaulay to finish up the answer . we 'll start at 27 seconds , freeze the clock and hear his answer . then , because of all of the confusion , we 'll start at one minute and 45 seconds when we get going again . mrs. cathay wagantall : should i repeat the question , sir ? the chair : please do . the clock is frozen . after we go through the question and the answer , we 'll start the clock again . mr. wagantall , please repeat the question . mrs. cathay wagantall : thank you , chair . in the undisclosed settlement to sean bruyea 's legal case against seamus o'regan and the liberal government , a joint statement says , canadians , especially all veterans and their families , are encouraged to enter the public debate about policies and programs that affect our veterans and their families . does mr. macaulay agree with this statement ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i appreciate my honourable colleague 's question and concern . of course i agree . anybody is quite open to indicate whatever they wish in order to make sure we provide as appropriate a compensation as possible . you can never totally compensate veterans truly for what they deserve , but we want to make sure we provide the best compensation possible . that 's what we will do and want to do . the chair : ms. wagantall , we will start the clock again . you have one minute and 45 seconds remaining . please proceed . mrs. cathay wagantall : if that 's the case , is minister macaulay aware of the practice of red-flagging veterans ' files ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i 'm not aware . mrs. cathay wagantall : since the deputy minister has indicated that he runs the department , will the minister ask him for the names of veterans and the dates and the reasons that they are , or have been , red-flagged by vac ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i would certainly ask any veteran or anybody who has a concern to contact my office . i will do anything i can to make sure that the veterans the chair : we 'll go back to ms. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : do the most ill and injured still receive from the pension up to $ 300,000 less for life ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , as you know and as the prime minister indicated when the pension for life was put in place , it was stated that if anybody receives lessthe prime minister himself indicated it quite clearlythat must be adjusted . mrs. cathay wagantall : for veterans in similar circumstances , should the date of their application for compensation be a factor in determining whether they 're treated equitably ? hon . lawrence macaulay : yes , of course , the date is when the compensation would start . of course , it 's very important and very appropriate . the chair : now we will proceed to mr. lloyd . mr. dane lloyd ( sturgeon riverparkland , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . retired major mark campbell in my riding of sturgeon riverparkland lost both legs in the line of duty in afghanistan . he is an avid sport shooter , but understandably , due to his disability , he is very limited in the kinds of firearms he can use , and all of these firearms have now been banned under the liberal oic . my question to the minister of public safety is this : did their department do a legal analysis and consider the section 15 charter rights of disabled canadians not to be discriminated against when they passed their oic ? hon . bill blair : yes , there was a very thorough analysis done by the justice department to ensure that the prohibitions we put in place were , in fact , charter compliant . let me also say , mr . chair , how important it was that we prohibited weapons that were not designed for sporting purposes at all . in fact , they were designed for soldiers to use in combat . they have no place in a civil society . we have prohibited them , and we believeand this has been echoed by many people across the countrythat this will make canadians safer . mr. dane lloyd : mr . chair , is the minister aware that the ar-15 is the most popular sporting rifle in canada , and is he aware that disabled veterans like major mark campbell are unable to participate in the sport of sport shooting because of his oic ? </s>
<s> what did the minister think about foreign businessmen in canada when talking about finance and security ? </s> hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : thank you , mr . chair . i want to thank the honourable member for that question . we know that at this time canada must show leadership in the face of global challenges . more than ever , canada is playing a positive role by being a champion in diversity and inclusion , supporting the global fight against covid-19 , addressing climate change , leading peace and security efforts and helping the most vulnerable . a seat on the security council will allow canada to be a strong voice for a fairer , more inclusive and prosperous the chair : we 'll go back to mr. barrett . mr. michael barrett : mr . chair , i received a letter from bob anderson this week , who 's advocating for his neighbours like jean grevelding , who owns a cottage at butternut bay . like many people , jean is an american who owns a property on our side of the border . these people are taxpaying members of our communities . these folks have plans in place to follow all canadian quarantine rules . they 're concerned about leaving their properties uncared for over the summer . will folks like jean be allowed to cross the border to check on their properties this summer ? </s>
<s> what did hon . lawrence macaulay think about the public debate about policies and programs that affect veterans and their families ? </s> mrs. cathay wagantall : in the undisclosed settlement of sean bruyea 's legal case against seamus o'regan and the liberal government , a joint statement says ... canadians , especially all veterans and their families , are encouraged to enter the public debate about policies and programs that affect our veterans and their families . does mr. macaulay agree with this statement ? hon . lawrence macaulay : i can assure you that anybody is welcome to enter any discussion on compensation of veterans . we 're always open to what we can do in order to make sure that we provide appropriate compensation . i do n't think the term would be appropriate , but it would provide some compensation to veterans who truly deserve it . they defend our democracy the chair : we 'll go back to ms. wagantall . oh , i 'm sorry ms. andranne larouche : mr.chair , i have a point of order . the interpretation has n't worked for a few interventions . it 's difficult to follow the exchange between the hon . member and the minister . the chair : we 're having a problem with the interpretation . minister and ms. wagantall , you are joining us virtually . i 'm wondering if you have the right language on at the bottom of your screen . we 'll start with that for troubleshooting . mrs. cathay wagantall : i have english . the chair : very good . minister macaulay , what do you have ? hon . lawrence macaulay : i have english , mr . chair . the chair : very good . then we 'll check on our side . ms.larouche , did i understand correctly that the interpretation did n't work for both speakers ? ms. andranne larouche : the sound did n't allow the interpreters to do their job . it seemed to be a problem with the sound . the chair : in that case , i would ask both members to maybe put their mike a little bit close to their mouth . we 'll see how that works . i 'm looking at the screen , and i notice the mike is a little bit far . could we bend it in a little bit more ? i appreciate that . thank you for your patience . we 'll give it another try . ms. wagantall , please go ahead . mrs. cathay wagantall : on a point of order , quite often while i 'm trying to speak , there are lots of other voices in the background . the chair : i would ask everyone to please be on mute , as well as for anyone in the chamber to please refrain from speaking loudly . just whisper among yourselves if you have something to say . we 'll take this one from the top . we have a minute and 45 seconds left . ms. wagantall , please proceed with your next question . mrs. cathay wagantall : you said next question , so we 're not going backwards , chair ? the chair : did we have an answer from minister macaulay ? no ? we 'll go to minister macaulay to finish up the answer . we 'll start at 27 seconds , freeze the clock and hear his answer . then , because of all of the confusion , we 'll start at one minute and 45 seconds when we get going again . mrs. cathay wagantall : should i repeat the question , sir ? the chair : please do . the clock is frozen . after we go through the question and the answer , we 'll start the clock again . mr. wagantall , please repeat the question . mrs. cathay wagantall : thank you , chair . in the undisclosed settlement to sean bruyea 's legal case against seamus o'regan and the liberal government , a joint statement says , canadians , especially all veterans and their families , are encouraged to enter the public debate about policies and programs that affect our veterans and their families . does mr. macaulay agree with this statement ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the budget and the disabilities . </s> the chair : we will go to mr. lloyd . mr. dane lloyd : mr . chair , it has been months since the liberals shut down this parliament and months since the minister of finance should have presented a budget or at least an economic update to canadians . since then we have seen billions spent with little oversight and no plan . the minister says that he needs certainty before he can table a budget . well , that did n't stop stephen harper and the conservatives from tabling a budget in the depth of the last great recession . when are these liberals finally going to take their job seriously and table an economic update ? hon . mona fortier ( minister of middle class prosperity and associate minister of finance ) : mr . chair , we 're taking this very seriously . we 're working for canadians and bringing forward supports to make sure that businesses , workers and canadians can put food on the table and pay their rent . we will continue to support canadians , and when we have a clear projection to present , we will do that . mr. dane lloyd : mr . chair , the results are in , and businesses are n't happy with the so-called support programs from these liberals . in fact , the oil and gas industry has been shut out of many of these economic programs . when is the government going to recognize that their business support plans have been an absolute failure with only a fraction of the billions promised being accessible to businesses ? hon . seamus o'regan ( minister of natural resources ) : mr . chair , our government has taken swift and immediate action to support our sector throughout this challenging time . we had the bcap , which is critically important to providing liquidity to support the smes that make up 85 % of the jobs in our sector . it has taken an enormous team effort . people are working around the clock to get money where it needs to be . we are helping hard-working canadians , small businesses and large businesses right across the country , but in particular in our energy sector . mr. dane lloyd : mr . chair , i 'm pleased to see the minister of natural resources online . he tweeted recently to praise the alberta carbon trunk line and the north west redwater partnership refinery in my riding . can the minister tell us what , if any , support they have given to the innovative carbon capture and sequestration technology in this country ? hon . seamus o'regan : mr . chair , we see carbon capture and sequestration as an integral part of lowering emissions , making emissions more competitive and making our oil and gas industry more competitive . we 're seeing where the investment dollars are going . they are going to jurisdictions that are committed to lowering emissions . obviously , this government is committing to net zero . mr. dane lloyd : i note that the minister could n't name a single example of government support for carbon capture , utilization and sequestration technology . we have spent a lot of time talking about the covid-19 pandemic , but canadians are living with another horrific reality , that being the intensifying opioid overdose epidemic . reports indicate that in the past four years , 14,000 canadians have died , and the numbers during covid-19 have been skyrocketing , with british columbia seeing a 39 % increase this year alone . i know this because i 've lost a family member to a fentanyl overdose . when is the government going to take this scourge seriously and take action to save the lives of canadians ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , i share the member 's deep sadness about the number of lives we 've lost to opioid overdose . our government has been steadily making it easier for people who live with substance use to access medications to treat substance use , such as prescription suboxone and methadone . we have made it easier to rapidly establish safe injection sites in communities and have supported community-based projects that work with people who are using substances . we need to understand that this is a complex issue , and we need to support people to get the help they need . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ( algomamanitoulinkapuskasing , ndp ) ) : the hon . member for thrse-deblainville . ms. louise chabot ( thrse-de blainville , bq ) : madamchair , i will come back to the bill introduced last week . as parliamentarians , we felt like we were watching a very bad play , as i imagine the public did . i say that it was theatre , even though it should n't be in this place . the government decided to stage a play and act alone and , unfortunately , there were several acts missing . a very important part of this bill was about supporting people with disabilities in this time of crisis . however , the government did not see fit to negotiate with the opposition parties , even though it is in a minority position . despite this arrogance , the bloc qubcois proposed solutions . one of the things we proposed was to split the bill so that we could give this support to people with disabilities , but the conservatives did not want to do that . we came back and asked for time to negotiate and give support to people with disabilities , but the government defeated the motion . we asked that the house be recalled today so that we could pass this part of the bill concerning support for people with disabilities , but we are still in the dark . why are we abandoning people with disabilities ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : i thank the hon . member for her question . we know this pandemic has deeply affected the lives and health of all canadians and has disproportionately affected canadians with disabilities in particular . from the very beginning , we 've taken a disability-inclusive approach to our emergency response to ensure that canadians with disabilities get the support they need . that is why we announced a one-time payment of $ 600 for persons with disabilities to address these expenses . this will go a long way toward helping canadians with disabilities . we encourage and urge all parties in the opposition to support this measure . we 're confident that this measure , along with other investments , will benefit canadians with disabilities , and we hope to get the support of the other parties very soon . ms. louise chabot : madamchair , i remind you that this measure was n't passed because we were n't allowed to do so . a measure to help people with disabilities has been put in an omnibus bill . we 've tried here , in the house , to provide the means to give that support , so i ask again , can the government be counted on to give a response to people with disabilities ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , it was absolutely not an omnibus bill . it contained assistance for the disabled , of course , but it also contained assistance for our seasonal workers , as well as a number of other measures that the bloc qubcois opposed . they refused to debate and , when the question of splitting the bill came up , the conservatives refused to do that . that is why there is no bill at the moment , and that is very unfortunate . ms. louise chabot : it was a bloc qubcois proposal to split the bill . the government had not thought of it , but they found that it was a good idea . let me return to the attack . this bill proposed changes to the wage subsidy program , it was supposed to make the cerb more flexible , it proposed fines for fraudsters and , since there was a little section about a benefit for the disabled , the government took it for granted that we would support it without any negotiations with the parties . however , we set one very important condition : that the liberal party must get its hands out of taxpayers ' pockets in terms of the wage subsidy . hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , as we listen to the bloc qubcois members , we might think that they invented peanut butter and apple pie . this bill contained a number of measures that all quebeckers and all canadians needed , but the bloc qubcois refused to debate it . no , we did not follow the bloc qubcois ' example in splitting the bill ; we had thought of it a long time previously . we have not been able to do that because of the conservatives . because of them , we can not help those living with disabilities . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : ms.chabot , you have 45seconds left . ms. louise chabot : we asked on a number of occasions for the house to be able to sit starting today to pass the part of the bill dealing with those with disabilities . what is the status of that , madamchair ? we have not heard about it since . hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , my colleague knows very well that things are not as simple as that . there are procedural mechanisms unique to the house . i hope that , one day , we will be able to pass this bill and be able to provide assistance for those living with disabilities . i hope that the conservatives will change their minds and give us their support . </s>
<s> what would canadian government do to save the lives of canadians when talking about the budget and the disabilities ? </s> mr. dane lloyd : i note that the minister could n't name a single example of government support for carbon capture , utilization and sequestration technology . we have spent a lot of time talking about the covid-19 pandemic , but canadians are living with another horrific reality , that being the intensifying opioid overdose epidemic . reports indicate that in the past four years , 14,000 canadians have died , and the numbers during covid-19 have been skyrocketing , with british columbia seeing a 39 % increase this year alone . i know this because i 've lost a family member to a fentanyl overdose . when is the government going to take this scourge seriously and take action to save the lives of canadians ? </s>
<s> what did hon . ahmed hussen think about the bill for the disabilities ? </s> ms. louise chabot ( thrse-de blainville , bq ) : madamchair , i will come back to the bill introduced last week . as parliamentarians , we felt like we were watching a very bad play , as i imagine the public did . i say that it was theatre , even though it should n't be in this place . the government decided to stage a play and act alone and , unfortunately , there were several acts missing . a very important part of this bill was about supporting people with disabilities in this time of crisis . however , the government did not see fit to negotiate with the opposition parties , even though it is in a minority position . despite this arrogance , the bloc qubcois proposed solutions . one of the things we proposed was to split the bill so that we could give this support to people with disabilities , but the conservatives did not want to do that . we came back and asked for time to negotiate and give support to people with disabilities , but the government defeated the motion . we asked that the house be recalled today so that we could pass this part of the bill concerning support for people with disabilities , but we are still in the dark . why are we abandoning people with disabilities ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : i thank the hon . member for her question . we know this pandemic has deeply affected the lives and health of all canadians and has disproportionately affected canadians with disabilities in particular . from the very beginning , we 've taken a disability-inclusive approach to our emergency response to ensure that canadians with disabilities get the support they need . that is why we announced a one-time payment of $ 600 for persons with disabilities to address these expenses . this will go a long way toward helping canadians with disabilities . we encourage and urge all parties in the opposition to support this measure . we 're confident that this measure , along with other investments , will benefit canadians with disabilities , and we hope to get the support of the other parties very soon . ms. louise chabot : madamchair , i remind you that this measure was n't passed because we were n't allowed to do so . a measure to help people with disabilities has been put in an omnibus bill . we 've tried here , in the house , to provide the means to give that support , so i ask again , can the government be counted on to give a response to people with disabilities ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , it was absolutely not an omnibus bill . it contained assistance for the disabled , of course , but it also contained assistance for our seasonal workers , as well as a number of other measures that the bloc qubcois opposed . they refused to debate and , when the question of splitting the bill came up , the conservatives refused to do that . that is why there is no bill at the moment , and that is very unfortunate . ms. louise chabot : it was a bloc qubcois proposal to split the bill . the government had not thought of it , but they found that it was a good idea . let me return to the attack . this bill proposed changes to the wage subsidy program , it was supposed to make the cerb more flexible , it proposed fines for fraudsters and , since there was a little section about a benefit for the disabled , the government took it for granted that we would support it without any negotiations with the parties . however , we set one very important condition : that the liberal party must get its hands out of taxpayers ' pockets in terms of the wage subsidy . hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , as we listen to the bloc qubcois members , we might think that they invented peanut butter and apple pie . this bill contained a number of measures that all quebeckers and all canadians needed , but the bloc qubcois refused to debate it . no , we did not follow the bloc qubcois ' example in splitting the bill ; we had thought of it a long time previously . we have not been able to do that because of the conservatives . because of them , we can not help those living with disabilities . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : ms.chabot , you have 45seconds left . ms. louise chabot : we asked on a number of occasions for the house to be able to sit starting today to pass the part of the bill dealing with those with disabilities . what is the status of that , madamchair ? we have not heard about it since . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about employment and workers ' safety . </s> the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr.blaney , the honourable member for bellechasseles etcheminslvis , has the floor . hon . steven blaney ( bellechasseles etcheminslvis , cpc ) : thank you , madamchair . last week , my plumber told me that , each time justin trudeau comes down the steps to make announcements totalling several billion dollars , he feels like someone is rifling through his pockets . my question is simple and goes to the minister of finance : where is this money coming from ? hon . mona fortier : madamchair , i would like to thank my honourable colleague for his question . currently , the health and safety of canadians are our top priorities . we have implemented an emergency economic plan to support canadians , workers and companies . we will continue to support them during this crisis . hon . steven blaney : the answer i would have liked is simple : we are borrowing the money and we are going to have to pay it back one day . that is another liberal craze : they borrow money , they make campaign promises , and off they go . under the conservative government , the chantier davie in lvis had 1,700workers for the supply ship asterix . in the election campaign , the liberals promised icebreakers . when are the liberals going to award the icebreaker contracts to the chantier davie ? hon . david lametti ( minister of justice and attorney general of canada ) : madamchair , we are very proud of the chantier davie and we completely understand its role in the system . we are currently assessing those requests . we are going to establish the process for the polar ice-breaker , which is essential for the work of the coast guard in northern communities , and we are going to make sure that the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr.blaney has the floor . hon . steven blaney : the workers do not need words ; they need contracts and jobs . the same is true for young people who want to work . there is money in the canada summer jobs program : in my constituency alone , $ 150,000has been approved . companies want young people to work and want to hire them . what is the minister waiting for in order to confirm those positions ? in my constituency , and everywhere else in the country , our young people want to work . what is the government waiting for in order to send some cash to the canada summer jobs program ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , we are proud of the canada summer jobs program . we are introducing flexibilities into the system to enable employers to be able to hire summer students . we recognize the importance of this program to provide both financial resources and necessary experience for young people . we believe in continuing to invest in the canada summer jobs program . hon . steven blaney : the workers , the young people and the employers have been waiting for weeks . the money is available ; where is the announcement ? madamchair , our young people are not the only ones who want to work . there are also the temporary foreign workers . let me use jessie gito as an example ; he has been working at plate2000 in saint-anselme for years . when the time came to renew his work permit , he found out that he has to have some biometric tests . but he can not get them because the offices are closed . is the minister going to allow jessie gito and the thousands of other temporary foreign workers who want to work to be able to do so until the government biometric testing centres reopen ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , it is important for the honourable member to recognize that we are in the early recovery stage of the pandemic . employers are slowly reopening businesses . we will ensure that we support both our students and our temporary foreign workers to make sure we get the recovery right . we will continue to invest in the canada summer jobs program . we 've introduced flexibilities into the program to ensure that employers are able to take advantage of the program and give opportunities to young people . hon . steven blaney : it is very simple . jessie gito is a foreign worker , who is in a company that provides an essential service . he needs a decision that will let him go to work , rather than staying home and doing nothing . then , when the government 's biometric testing centres are open again , he will gladly go to one . young people want to work in agriculture as well , and the minister has told us that the government wants young people working and that their files will be processed as quickly as possible . she wants to create 700positions and she knows that people can fill in an application on a first-come first-served basis . of those 700positions , how many have been confirmed to date ? the good weather has arrived , the corn is starting to grow , and this is the time when farmers need the young workers . hon . marie-claude bibeau ( minister of agriculture and agri-food ) : madamchair , the program for young workers in agriculture is open . i also encourage agricultural producers to register for it . this is a program that is not only intended to provide summer jobs , but also to interest young people in making a career in agriculture . as i have said before , the department is processing files as quickly as possible . each employer will have an answer very shortly . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will now take a short break . okay , we are ready to start again . we will go to the honourable member for barriespringwateroro-medonte . mr. doug shipley ( barriespringwateroro-medonte , cpc ) : thank you , chair . over the course of the pandemic , has the government been using all avenues possible to source much-needed ppe in canada ? hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , we have been very clear that we have a made-in-canada initiative that has engaged companies across the country . over 700 companies have retooled and scaled up their operations for personal protective equipment to help front-line health care workers . mr. doug shipley : madam chair , i need to ask very quickly which ministry and minister are responsible for the sourcing of ppe in canada . hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , this is a collective effort . i work with the minister of health and the minister for procurement , and we coordinate with the provinces and territories to make sure there are appropriate levels of ppe to help front-line health care workers and essential workers across the country . mr. doug shipley : thank you for that clarification . that will make this question all the more pertinent . my riding of barriespringwateroro-medonte is the home of southmedic inc. southmedic is a renowned medical supply business . for over 37 years , it has provided front-line health care workers with an extensive line of ppe and other essential products required when dealing with respiratory illnesses . this company specializes in respiratory illness equipment . southmedic currently employs over 700 people , and it has been recognized as one of canada 's best-managed companies by deloitte on numerous occasions . since the beginning of the pandemic , both i and the member for barrieinnisfil have been attempting to obtain some assistance for southmedic from the federal government . calls and emails were falling on deaf ears . in early may , i wrote a letter to minister anand outlining the situation . i received a letter back from the minister dated may 27 indicating that this issue of southmedic falls under the mandate of the minister of innovation , science and economic development canada . i have heard nothing more . when will the federal government reach out and help this great canadian company and therefore ensure that all front-line workers will have the proper ppe they require ? hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , i 'd like to thank my honourable colleague for his question . he knows full well that this is a very challenging time . that is why we had a call to action to engage canadians right across the country . since then , we 've seen over 6,000 companies step up to offer solutions and ideas , and over 700 companies have retooled their efforts . i acknowledge that some companies are still engaging with the government , and we 'll continue to explore all possible options to make sure we continue to procure the necessary levels of personal protective equipment to protect canadians and to protect front-line health care workers . that has always been our priority . i want to thank the outstanding canadian companies that have come forward and have helped us in this endeavour . we continue to look forward to working with them . mr. doug shipley : thank you for that answer . just to follow up , there 's no retooling required at this company . they could have been up and going very quickly . they just needed a little assistance at the beginning . moving on to a different issue , while walking to my office this morning , i stopped at my local small family-run coffee shop and was discussing the current economic situation with the two owners of the establishment . they indicated they are having a very tough time surviving this economic downturn . the only thing keeping them hopeful is that soon the public service will start returning to work , and therefore their business will begin to return . could the government please give us some indication as to what the plans are for returning the civil service back to work safely , and when ? hon . jean-yves duclos ( president of the treasury board ) : thank you , madam chair . i 'm delighted to answer this question . this is a very important topic , but i 'd like to take the opportunity first to thank our public servants , who have worked very hard in the last few weeks , both personally and professionally . in fact , today is a wonderful day to say that , because today is the start of national public service week . that 's one more reason to thank them for their dedicated work . they are not going to go back to work . they 've been at work for the last few monthsin different circumstances , but they have been working very hard to deliver the services and the support canadians need and deserve . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : next we 'll go to the honourable member for selkirkinterlakeeastman , mr. bezan . mr. james bezan ( selkirkinterlakeeastman , cpc ) : thank you , madam chair . my questions are for the minister of national defence . first of all , i want to thank the great men and women of the canadian armed forces for the fantastic job they 're doing in operation laser , serving on the front lines battling covid-19 . can the minister of national defence give the house an update on exactly where we are at with the number of canadian armed forces members who have been infected with covid-19 ? hon . harjit s. sajjan ( minister of national defence ) : madam chair , i want to echo the member opposite 's comments in thanking our canadian armed forces members . currently , we have 13 active cases in the canadian armed forces , but in the long-term care facilities we currently have 50 cases . no member has been currently hospitalized . we have also conducted very thorough reviews of our protection protocols as well . mr. james bezan : through you , chair , minister sajjan , does that number of active cases include the active cases that are in long-term care facilities right now in operation laser ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : madam chair , as i stated , the 50 cases are strictly from the long-term care facilities . the 13 cases i mentioned are not in the long-term care facilities . just to give the actual clarification , no member has been currently hospitalized . mr. james bezan : in those numbers , madam chair , can mr. sajjan say how many of those cases in long-term care facilities are active and how many are recovered ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : madam chair , i do n't have the exact number . what i can say to break it down further is that in quebec we currently have 36 and in ontario we have 14 . as well , 36 of the members have been out of isolation . i 'll get more details and pass them on directly to the member , madam chair . mr. james bezan : thank you , minister . madam chair , i have a quick question while we 're still talking about operation laser . the president of the treasury board has said , the canadian armed forces will be present as long as their presence is needed in quebec . this contradicts what prime minister trudeau is saying , which is that we have a hard deadline of june 26 for the withdrawal of our troops for operation laser . that means taking our troops out of our long-term care facilities . minister , is june 26 the hard date for the winding down of operation laser ? hon . bill blair : thank you very much , madam chair . i 'm delighted to have the opportunity to clarify for the house . we 've been in very extensive discussions with the province of quebec , with my counterpart minister guilbault , and we are working very diligently to ensure we have a sustained , appropriate response to the request from quebec for assistance . that response will result in a transition from the currently deployed canadian armed forces to the deployment of paid volunteers , trained personnel who will take on the important role of providing services to those canadians who need our help in quebec . mr. james bezan : i 'll go back to the minister of national defence . the department of national defence auditors have called out the liberal government for mismanagement over the $ 553-billion investment in our canadian military through the defence policy . only three people have been assigned to oversee the rollout of this money . this is a $ 553-billion investment in our armed forces , and only three people are managing it . could the minister tell us how that is even possible ? is this the reason that over 100 projects are currently behind schedule ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : madam chair , first of all , i want to highlight the unprecedented investment that we 're making in defence . we have conducted internal reviews of our procurement . the report the member opposite is talking about is from the previous year . this is the ongoing work we 're doing to make sure that we make procurement better . when it comes to the management of this , it 's conducted by me and the minister of procurement . we are working toward making our procurement even better . we have already streamlined some aspects of our procurement and we 'll continue to do more as well . mr. james bezan : minister sajjan , you 've had this report since november of 2019 . you 've been rolling out this plan since 2017 . only three people are overseeing an expenditure of $ 553 billion . this is taxpayers ' money . are we going to see more cuts because you have been unable to actually roll out these dollars ? hon . harjit s. sajjan : madam chair , i can assure you we 're not going to be cutting . we 'll be investing in our defence . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : before i go to the next speaker , i want to remind members that they are to address their questions and comments directly through the chair . we will go now to the honourable member for fort mcmurraycold lake , mr. yurdiga . mr. david yurdiga ( fort mcmurraycold lake , cpc ) : madam chair , the canada summer jobs program has many challenges . i 've seen many indigenous communities in my riding rejected for funding even though they had received funding in previous years . here are a few examples of communities that were rejected : beaver lake cree nation , buffalo lake mtis settlement and the mtis nation of alberta , region 1 . the list goes on . could the prime minister explain why so many indigenous communities have been denied funding from the canada summer jobs program ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , we recognize the important role that the canada summer jobs program plays in supporting employers and young workers in our community across the country every year . we 're working very hard to help employers adapt to the realities of the covid-19 pandemic and are supporting young canadians as they begin to look for summer employment . we are introducing increased flexibilities into the canada summer jobs program to hire youth , while also providing more supports to employers that deliver essential services to canadians . mr. david yurdiga : madam chair , that did n't really answer my question . why are so many indigenous communities left out of the canada summer jobs program ? this is very important to my community and to communities throughout the province . will the government investigate why these communities were rejected ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , i want to assure the honourable member that we , of course , value the important role that the canada summer jobs program plays in all communities , including indigenous communities in canada . i will certainly have an off-line conversation with the honourable member , if he so wishes , about a particular issue , but i can assure him that in the context of the covid-19 pandemic , we have had to assist employers to introduce flexibilities the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go back to mr. yurdiga . mr. david yurdiga : madam chair , in my riding , the city of cold lake has been in dispute with the federal government for many years over payment in lieu of taxes . my office has sent many letters over the years regarding the pilt dispute . could the minister of public services and procurement give me a rough estimate of when i will receive a response from the minister 's office to my first letter , from 2017 , and my letters from 2018 , 2019 and 2020 ? hon . david lametti : madam chair , i can assure the honourable member that i will go to the minister , and we will come back with an answer to his question . mr. david yurdiga : how much longer does the minister intend to perpetuate the ongoing pilt dispute , which is in excess of $ 11 million , with the city of cold lake ? hon . david lametti : madam chair , once again , i can assure the honourable member that i will speak with the minister and get an answer to his question . mr. david yurdiga : well , do you know what ? i 've been writing letters to the department for many years . when you say you 're going to get back to me , i really have a hard time believing that . will the minister agree to follow the prior recommendations of the dispute advisory panel that were accepted by the minister ? hon . david lametti : madam chair , i can assure the honourable member that i will check with the minister and that she will return to the member in due course . mr. david yurdiga : madam chair , the drug trikafta has been proven to increase the quality of life for 90 % of cystic fibrosis patients . two weeks ago , my office sent a letter to the minister of health about the boy in my riding named cael , who through the special access program is able to get trikafta in canada . i requested that the minister use her powers to fast-track trikafta for commercial use , but i have yet to receive a response back . when will the minister make a decision on trikafta ? hon . patty hajdu : madam chair , i 'm glad to hear that cael was able to access trikafta through the special access program . in fact , that program is very helpful for people who are seeking access to medication that 's not currently marketed in canada . as the member opposite knows , vertex has not applied to market trikafta in canada , but we look forward to their application , and i encourage him to write a letter to the manufacturer to also encourage them . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go now to the honourable member for vancouver granville , ms. wilson-raybould . hon . jody wilson-raybould ( vancouver granville , ind . ) : thank you , chair . i was very troubled to hear that a cbc radio host in the yukon felt compelled to resign because , as an indigenous person , she could not speak her truth . while we know the broadcasting act states that the canadian broadcasting system should reflect the linguistic duality and multicultural and multiracial nature of canadian society and the special place of indigenous peoples , it would seem there are some challenges . therefore , does the minister of heritage share the concern of some journalists that problems of systemic racism in canada are still existing within the institution of the cbc , and will the government now acknowledge the need to recognize the jurisdiction of indigenous governments ? hon . steven guilbeault ( minister of canadian heritage ) : thank you , madame chair ; and i thank the member for this important question . as stated by the prime minister on numerous occasions , our government recognizes that systemic racism exists in canada , and we have made a commitment to do everything we can to combat it in whichever organization of the canadian government . hon . jody wilson-raybould : thank you . when i was in the government , and as a minister , i learned the term red meat issues . i understand these issues to be ones that challenge societal norms , that are not politically expedient to address because they can lose you votes , even though addressing them is morally right and a smart thing to do . mostly these are issues addressing inequality and the most marginalized in our society . in the justice system , examples include mandatory minimum penalties , defunding police , and even investing in restorative justice . red-meat issues often become defining issues for society and for governments as the world changes . surely now these issues are politically less of a consideration than the tragic reality of even more slain indigenous canadians at the hands of police , or thousands of indigenous people still incarcerated or living in poverty . will this government please finally commit to the necessary work originally promised in 2015 and repeal in the justice system the vast majority of mandatory minimum penalties , assuring the necessary discretion for judges , and meaningfully invest in restorative justice measures ? hon . david lametti : madame chair , i thank the honourable member for her question , as well as for her work as minister of justice , and indeed my predecessor . this is an important time . this is a time when we recognize systemic racism . this is a time when we recognize systemic over-incarceration of indigenous peoples , of black peoples , in our criminal justice system . this is a time when we need to look at all potential options to reduce what is a shameful overrepresentation in our criminal justice system . too often racialized peoples and indigenous peoples have experienced prejudice and systemic discrimination in our justice system , and that has to change . hon . jody wilson-raybould : i 'll go on to another red meat issue . in british columbia we are in the fifth year of the opioid overdose public health emergency crisis . sadly , may marks the deadliest month of overdose-related deaths . we are halfway into the year and have currently passed 500 deaths caused by overdose . many of the deaths are related to covid-19 measures that have prevented people from accessing supervised consumption sites , so they are overdosing alone . while the provinces welcomed the federal backing of safe supply exemption back in march , it is to expire in september of 2020 . echoing the call of the chief coroner of b.c . and dr. henry , more is needed from the federal government , more action . will the government provide the necessary supports to the province and help support safe supply initiatives in the provinces ? hon . patty hajdu : it 's been a pleasure to work with the province of british columbia on innovative ways to work on the tragic situation of opioid overdose . i remain committed to working with the province and in fact any province that wants to work towards solutions that treat people who use substances with the dignity they deserve . madam chair , this is a complex issue . we 're working closely with our partners to make sure that we can prevent more lives from being lost . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable member for south okanaganwest kootenay , mr. cannings . mr. richard cannings ( south okanaganwest kootenay , ndp ) : thank you , madam chair . i 'll be splitting my time with the member for skeenabulkley valley . in my riding , theo 's in penticton is a beloved restaurant . they 've been serving great food for 40 years , but now they 're struggling , because they do n't qualify for the emergency wage subsidy . why is that ? the original owners retired last year and sold it to another operator . the new owner ca n't use a year-to-year comparison to apply for the wage subsidy because he did n't own the restaurant last spring . he is forced to use receipts from january and february , the darkest doldrums of the restaurant year , to compare with the results from may , traditionally one of their best months . now he has to compete with other local restaurants that can access the subsidy . when will the government fix this inequity and let theo 's compete and survive ? hon . mona fortier : madam chair , the canada emergency wage subsidy is supporting over 2.5 million workers across the country . to help even more businesses support their workers and rehire people as they reopen , our government is extending the cews , and we will continue to extend the cews for an additional 12 weeks to august 29 to ensure that canadian workers continue to have the support they need during these very difficult times . by extending eligibility , our government is ensuring that more canadian workers in more sectors have the support they need . mr. richard cannings : the owner just wants to be able to apply for the wage subsidy , and right now he can not , and he will not be able to . thousands of other businesses are hit that way as well . i 'd like to move on to forestry . canada 's forest sector has been declared essential during this pandemic , but it 's been hit hard after a very difficult 2019 . despite soft markets and thousands out of work , government support programs have left many canadian forest product companies behind . in my riding , the pulp mill in castlegar is closing for the month of july because local sawmills are n't producing enough wood chips . what is the government going to do to finally support canadian forestry workers and communities ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the time is almost up , but i will allow for the answer from the honourable minister . hon . seamus o'regan : thank you , madam chair . we have supported and we will continue to support the forestry sector , including through regional development programs . in fact , in quebec , partnering with les bois francs dv inc. , we have widened market access to our products and updated technology systems . in north bay we 've partnered with the canadian wood council to promote the sector . in vancouver we 're working with fpinnovations to create the indigenous forest sector technical support program . we are supporting the forestry sector and its different needs region by region . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : now we go to the honourable member for skeenabulkley valley , mr. bachrach . mr. taylor bachrach ( skeenabulkley valley , ndp ) : thank you , madam chair . i 'm going to pick up where my colleague left off , with b.c . 's forest industry . what we 've seen in b.c . are multiple rounds of mill shutdowns and start-ups , and in some cases this has made it difficult for forestry workers to qualify for ei . my question to the minister is this : will the minister work to make the ei program more flexible for forestry workers , similar to what this government has done for oil and gas workers ? hon . seamus o'regan : madam chair , in the oil and gas sector we have focused on workers . that has been key in the inactive and orphan well program , which we are working on with the provincial governments of saskatchewan , british columbia and alberta . the focus on workers has assured that success , and we will continue to focus on workers in all the industries , particularly our natural resource industry , as they go through this extraordinarily difficult time . mr. taylor bachrach : madam chair , reforestation is a very important part of the forest industry in the riding i represent , and people were keenly interested to hear this government 's plan to plant two billion trees in the next 10 years . that 's a lot of trees . i 'm wondering if the minister could tell us how many trees are going to be planted under this program by the end of this season . hon . seamus o'regan : madam chair , this government is committed to two billion trees . we are working with forestry associations , the industry and with individual companies to ensure this tree-planting season will be one of the largest the country has ever seen . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the floor goes to the honourable member for rivire-du-nord . mr. rhal fortin ( rivire-du-nord , bq ) : madamchair , last week , the government introduced billc-17 and the minister of justice sent us briefing notes in which he said that it was important to suspend a number of time limits and to extend others , and that the failure to do so could have important repercussions on canadians , their families , their situations , their finances and their ability to exercise their rights . we in the bloc qubcois agree with that . when are we going to talk about it ? hon . david lametti : madamchair , the contents of billc-17 are clearly very important . we have addressed the mandatory time limits in federal legislation as well as certain time limits that courts may not be able to handle . it is very important that we address this issue . that is why the law the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr.fortin , you have the floor . mr. rhal fortin : madamchair , we agree that it is important . i concur . the minister 's briefing notes say that , among other things , when it comes to divorcewhich means children are involved people are waiting on custody rights , child support and visitation rights . the minister pointed out that the national security review would require consultations if no decision is made in the prescribed time frame . it could pose a national security risk . it is really a big deal . when are we going to debate it ? hon . david lametti : madamchair , i completely agree with my honourable colleague . the issue needs to be addressed . that is why it is in the bill . that is another reason to debate the bill . i beseech my colleagues opposite to debate it with us . mr. rhal fortin : madamchair , what a coincidence , because i beseech my colleague opposite to debate it with us . that is what we are asking . last week , the leader of the bloc qubcois asked the liberal government to debate billc-17 today . he did not get an answer . it does not seem to matter . richard wagner , the chief justice of the supreme court , who is hardly a dimwit or greenhorn , told us that the justice system needs to be modernized . as recently as this past saturday in lapresse , justice wagner said that it is essential that the criminal code be amended to address the backlog of court proceedings . when will the liberal government opposite pull up its socks , do its job , govern the federation , sit down with the opposition and discuss the vital matters in billc-17 ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , if i were my colleague , i would be a little embarrassed , because the bill was sent to the bloc qubcois several days in advance . they received a technical note several days in advance . we were all available to take questions . when we asked for the support of the bloc qubcois and the other parties to debate itwe were not even asking them to vote in favour of the billthey refused . mr. rhal fortin : madamchair , we never refused to debate it . actually , we were the ones who asked to debate it . what exactly does debate it mean ? we set some conditions . for example , we asked the liberals to put the money back into the wage subsidy fund and to commit to dip into it no longer . are we asking too much of our colleagues opposite ? hon . pablo rodriguez : can my colleague explain to me what the emergency wage subsidy has to do with a bill about justice ? this is an absolutely fundamental piece of legislation . we wanted to debate it , but they refused to do so . mr. rhal fortin : madamchair , i would like nothing better than to explain it to him , but i must remind him that he is the leader of the party in power , the party that is supposed to govern the country . so i do not know why he is asking me that . my party proposed that we debate this today but we did not get an answer . meanwhile , court time limits are running out and people are losing rights . i am thinking of families , child support , child custody , labour law disputes in federal court , marine transportation , interprovincial transportation , aviation , banks , and those with grievances waiting for a federal court ruling . the whole system , the supreme court and the court of appeal , everything is on hold because nobody in the government wants to do their job . we want to discuss billc-17 . when can we talk about it ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madamchair , we have done our job . we have introduced the bill . we informed them in advance . we told them they could ask us any questions they wanted . we asked for a debate in the house . however , when we asked the bloc qubcois if they wanted to debate the bill , they said no , instead of doing what they usually do and saying yes . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable member for essex , mr. lewis . mr. chris lewis ( essex , cpc ) : thank you , madam chair . when the cerb runs out , many workers in my riding of essex will not have sufficient hours to collect their ei benefits . in early july , the midnight shift at chrysler will be eliminated . because of the shutdown , a mom-to-be who had just returned to work in january , and several hundred of her fellow employees , may not have the 600 hours required for regular or ei parental benefits . immediate action is needed . what is the government doing now to backstop these workers ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , the canada emergency response benefit has been providing much-needed help to canadian workers across the country who have stopped working due to covid-19 . we know that there is still a lot of uncertainty for many canadian workers , and we know that many will be exhausting their benefits in the weeks to come . we will have more to share soon , as early as this week , on our continuing efforts to support canadian workers and make sure that help is available during this the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : go ahead , mr. lewis . mr. chris lewis : thank you , minister , for the answer . the ei system needs to be fixed . even before the shutdown , the system was deeply flawed . will this government commit to a complete review and overhaul of the ei system ? </s>
<s> what did hon . ahmed hussen think about the summer jobs program when talking about employment and workers ' safety ? </s> hon . steven blaney : the workers do not need words ; they need contracts and jobs . the same is true for young people who want to work . there is money in the canada summer jobs program : in my constituency alone , $ 150,000has been approved . companies want young people to work and want to hire them . what is the minister waiting for in order to confirm those positions ? in my constituency , and everywhere else in the country , our young people want to work . what is the government waiting for in order to send some cash to the canada summer jobs program ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , we are proud of the canada summer jobs program . we are introducing flexibilities into the system to enable employers to be able to hire summer students . we recognize the importance of this program to provide both financial resources and necessary experience for young people . we believe in continuing to invest in the canada summer jobs program . hon . steven blaney : the workers , the young people and the employers have been waiting for weeks . the money is available ; where is the announcement ? madamchair , our young people are not the only ones who want to work . there are also the temporary foreign workers . let me use jessie gito as an example ; he has been working at plate2000 in saint-anselme for years . when the time came to renew his work permit , he found out that he has to have some biometric tests . but he can not get them because the offices are closed . is the minister going to allow jessie gito and the thousands of other temporary foreign workers who want to work to be able to do so until the government biometric testing centres reopen ? </s>
<s> how did the canadian government source much-needed ppe ? </s> mr. doug shipley ( barriespringwateroro-medonte , cpc ) : thank you , chair . over the course of the pandemic , has the government been using all avenues possible to source much-needed ppe in canada ? hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , we have been very clear that we have a made-in-canada initiative that has engaged companies across the country . over 700 companies have retooled and scaled up their operations for personal protective equipment to help front-line health care workers . mr. doug shipley : madam chair , i need to ask very quickly which ministry and minister are responsible for the sourcing of ppe in canada . hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , this is a collective effort . i work with the minister of health and the minister for procurement , and we coordinate with the provinces and territories to make sure there are appropriate levels of ppe to help front-line health care workers and essential workers across the country . mr. doug shipley : thank you for that clarification . that will make this question all the more pertinent . my riding of barriespringwateroro-medonte is the home of southmedic inc. southmedic is a renowned medical supply business . for over 37 years , it has provided front-line health care workers with an extensive line of ppe and other essential products required when dealing with respiratory illnesses . this company specializes in respiratory illness equipment . southmedic currently employs over 700 people , and it has been recognized as one of canada 's best-managed companies by deloitte on numerous occasions . since the beginning of the pandemic , both i and the member for barrieinnisfil have been attempting to obtain some assistance for southmedic from the federal government . calls and emails were falling on deaf ears . in early may , i wrote a letter to minister anand outlining the situation . i received a letter back from the minister dated may 27 indicating that this issue of southmedic falls under the mandate of the minister of innovation , science and economic development canada . i have heard nothing more . when will the federal government reach out and help this great canadian company and therefore ensure that all front-line workers will have the proper ppe they require ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : project manager : good morning everybody . industrial designer : good morning . project manager : user interface : good morning . marketing : good morning . project manager : so , we are asked to to make uh uh a new remote control for television . and the characteristics of this new remote control should be original and trendy and of course user user friendly . so people can can use it without any any problem . user interface : project manager : . industrial designer : project manager : i do n't know . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : industrial designer : well , i think we should set the the points to to drive the project and uh user interface : mm . b did you send us an email about this ? project manager : uh , not yet , user interface : industrial designer : project manager : but if you want user interface : yeah , we we received an email about this uh d designs . project manager : do you want do you want me to send you a mail ? industrial designer : user interface : ah it 's okay . project manager : or industrial designer : marketing : or you can put it in the shared folder . user interface : yeah , you see the email ? you email . the v very no , no the first one . marketing : no , i did n't get it . user interface : it 's inside . project manager : uh marketing : this one . user interface : no , no . the third one . oh , you did n't get anything . marketing : no , . user interface : it 's strange . mm . project manager : . user interface : i got an email about the dis about the discussion . yeah . project manager : you get email , . user interface : i dunno from who . industrial designer : yeah , from the account manager . marketing : user interface : from the account manager . you have received the same email , right ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i think it 's for your guys to how to design it all the aspects so you need that information . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i think so . user interface : yeah , so each of us has a role to do . marketing : i think assign your uh roles . user interface : in each project manager : for each for each one . user interface : we already have our role . marketing : for each person , yeah . user interface : 'kay , we can project manager : so there are so we have three user interface : so there are three kinds of designs , that 's all . project manager : f yeah . we have functional design , conceptual design , and detail design . user interface : okay , alright . project manager : so , who will be the the responsible for the functional design ? any any volunteer ? industrial designer : i think our uh responsibilities will be assigned when we in our mail we received from the account manager . user interface : yeah , yeah . i 'm doing the interface . project manager : you are doing th industrial designer : no , i 'm doing the interface . project manager : . user interface : are you using the you are doing the in industrial designer : yeah i i 'm i 'm well , maybe we have okay so i industrial design . it was a little confusion about my uh project manager : user interface : ah industrial designer : but it 's alright . project manager : okay , i 'll for industrial design . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . and and you norman ? user interface : mm ? um working on i . user interface . industrial designer : user . project manager : and and marketing : uh , i 'm into marketing . project manager : doing the marketing . marketing : yeah nothing much in the project . project manager : nothing related here to the marketing : marketing in this design . a design is basically for industrial design and the user interface . project manager : user interface : you see the second mail ? yeah , it 's inside . go down . appendix . marketing : yeah , this is . user interface : see there 's a role for everybody . marketing : yeah , that 's right , user interface : even for the marketing . marketing : first . us user define . project manager : next . user interface : but look at your role , your marketing role . marketing : there 's a trend watching . project manager : i do n't know . user interface : yeah , that 's your role . project manager : i . industrial designer : well , i think we can have a little discussion about what has to be done project manager : industrial designer : and what are your ideas about the project manager : about the design or maybe we 'll discuss this later , no ? industrial designer : well , w we want to have a new re remote control for for tv distribution i guess . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so we have to plan how how it would be developed and uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : how we can make it work . marketing : i mean working remotes we already have . this will be something different from the other remotes remote controls . industrial designer : project manager : what we we have to keep in mind the these characteristics . industrial designer : yeah , i dunno i project manager : and of course it should not be very costly . marketing : yeah , that 's right . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well i i think that norman and i would think about um the technical points and um we should discuss it in the next meeting , or user interface : need to collect information . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : about the about what ? user interface : um . i i 'm part of design , perhaps . uh , what is most important in a in a remote control ? what is the most important function aspect ? uh . project manager : you mean the external or industrial designer : well , you have to make it work . project manager : yeah of g of course . user interface : that 's alright . industrial designer : that 's the that 's the big thing . project manager : user interface : yeah , it should be easy to work with . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we can think about an interface with uh well user interface : uh . we maybe you can have a speech uh recognition interface . you just tell the television i want which channel . project manager : you wo n't user interface : or or you can say for example , um i want uh to list all the programme tonight . y you know , instead of uh remote control it 's doing the some searching for you , so you do n't have to look for the channel you want . just say maybe i just want to press i wan na have a button for all the movies tonight . or a button for all the magazines , all the information documentary tonight . and then you list a few , and i will choose from the list . so instead of pressing the channel number , i am choosing the programmes directly . yeah , that 's one way of uh making it useful . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : i i think if we include a lot of technology on the remote control it will be very costly . user interface : no , because no , project manager : s user interface : it 's not very a lot . th this information exists . for example you can get um project manager : like s uh you you you say we can use speech . user interface : you can use uh well for example anything . the the idea of using speech to reduce the button , but uh and it 's more natural . yeah . industrial designer : i i think if you want t to choose uh from a list of programme or or something like that you you may have to to use uh w uh i dunno marketing : i 'm a okay . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : i mean the main uh function of remote control is to have something in the hand project manager : in the hand . marketing : and we should be very careful about the size of the remote control . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : if we are going to add a speech interface , i 'm not sure with trendy slim size of the remote control it would be able to put a speech recog user interface : yeah . yes , possible . marketing : if you want to put a speech recognition system f interface for that i think the tv itself could have it . user interface : yeah . but industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and i could talk to the tv television itself . project manager : except if if you are far from the tv . marketing : i need not have an user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i mean we have some or something , different technology but project manager : this is it 's user interface : yeah , yeah . but th the main idea i wanted to s i wanted to say is that um there should be a function , instead of choosing the ch tv channel , there 's a option you can choose , either tv channels or or pr or the or the contain or the contents of the programme . industrial designer : on the content . marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah it 's it 's a good idea it 's a good idea project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so it 's more powerful . yeah . industrial designer : but i i think that technically it would be um a little bit uh uh more tricky to to achieve this than just to user interface : no . no , because you see now all the tv programmes are available on the webs . they they are they are they are available in x_m_l_ format or whatever the format . we do n't care . we just say that this are some content . we just want to retrieve the content and then classi sort them by the types of programmes . some of the websites they already provide this service , industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : so we can just use the service available . download it uh to the to this remote control . and then there 's there are only six buttons for six categories , or sev seven . the most there are only seven buttons . so i just choose the category one and you reuse the same button , for example to to choose among the the sorted list the programme you want , so you do n't have to choose among hundred channels , if you have hundred channels , you just have six buttons , seven buttons . project manager : yeah we should also optimise the the number of buttons . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : well i i i i think that j just by using navigation buttons and the user interface on the screen we are able to uh navigate uh through the well channel programme or contents or in an easy way , so project manager : this is good idea . user interface : yeah . ah , yes . so . yeah . yeah , so you do n't have to display here , just display on the tv screen , right ? industrial designer : yeah in the dis display on the tv screen user interface : good idea . okay . industrial designer : and just uh with the with your remote control would just navigate through the f user interface : i think i think that will be revol revolutionary . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : because all the tv uh the the remote control have all numbers , lots of buttons and then you dunno what to choose in the end . yeah . alright . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . so i think for for the technical points we have to to to check how to gather the data from programme or contents and all this stuff user interface : okay . project manager : so we have five minutes to user interface : ah w w we have sometimes to use the white-board . project manager : ah you can y you can you can use it if you so , can we industrial designer : user interface : five minutes . marketing : and another interesting idea for this would be to have an light adaptation system depending upon the picture of user interface : okay . okay . marketing : so , i mean , if you 're watching a movie and suddenly there is a dark uh some dark scene , the lights adapt themself . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : the lighting in the room changes . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , but we are designing just remote control . project manager : you it . marketing : i mean , we have a option in the remote control . if we want to have that option , you press that button in the remote . user interface : okay . industrial designer : oh right so user interface : okay , do you want to have a conceptual remote control there , or you just want to put the function in ? project manager : yeah . if if you you you can if you want you can use th the . industrial designer : please , norman , draw uh user interface : go on , draw something . mm . marketing : oh , i 'm afraid you forgot to put your lapel . user interface : where is it ? marketing : the lapel . project manager : or before the before the the design that says . user interface : ah , okay . industrial designer : user interface : where where is it ? here . marketing : yeah , that one . project manager : norman . marketing : just plug it . yeah , that 's right . project manager : be before before writing you can uh sit and that says what we what we said then after that you can you can use the . yeah . user interface : okay , alright . so so the most functional des mm the most important function is to ch choo buttons to choose the content . right ? we agree on that , right ? industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay . user interface : uh , uh first one is to uh buttons i or it could be anything with buttons . uh to choose uh content s or channels . project manager : yeah . user interface : so we have both . the user can choose w which one they want , right ? industrial designer : yeah , by content or by channel , user interface : by content or by channel . industrial designer : it 's a good idea . user interface : choose by contents or by channels . and then what did we say just now ? other than this . industrial designer : and uh we we have to find a way how to gather information about the contents . user interface : okay , so technically how the problems that how to do it is to how to get the content . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : challenge . industrial designer : i think i it 's not very difficult to to browse by channel but it 's a little bit tricky to browse by contents so user interface : okay . content . okay , so these we have to work it out . so this one of the problem . and uh industrial designer : i think that 's the the things to do user interface : the main thing . industrial designer : and uh to uh reflect about it user interface : okay . alright . alright , okay . industrial designer : and uh discuss it in the next meeting . user interface : so we are we 'll discuss it we will get some information in the next meeting , so for now we get uh the funct this is the functional designer ? that 's the first aspect . right . we will get information and then we 'll come back in . . industrial designer : okay . thank you everybody . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah , we 'll come . project manager : so maybe we 'll meet in maybe five minutes ? and we 'll discuss the other other aspects . user interface : alright . alright , okay . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay . well thank you all . </s>
<s> what was the main idea of user interface when talking about the functions and why ? </s> user interface : uh . we maybe you can have a speech uh recognition interface . you just tell the television i want which channel . project manager : you wo n't user interface : or or you can say for example , um i want uh to list all the programme tonight . y you know , instead of uh remote control it 's doing the some searching for you , so you do n't have to look for the channel you want . just say maybe i just want to press i wan na have a button for all the movies tonight . or a button for all the magazines , all the information documentary tonight . and then you list a few , and i will choose from the list . so instead of pressing the channel number , i am choosing the programmes directly . yeah , that 's one way of uh making it useful . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : i i think if we include a lot of technology on the remote control it will be very costly . user interface : no , because no , project manager : s user interface : it 's not very a lot . th this information exists . for example you can get um project manager : like s uh you you you say we can use speech . user interface : you can use uh well for example anything . the the idea of using speech to reduce the button , but uh and it 's more natural . yeah . industrial designer : i i think if you want t to choose uh from a list of programme or or something like that you you may have to to use uh w uh i dunno marketing : i 'm a okay . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : i mean the main uh function of remote control is to have something in the hand project manager : in the hand . marketing : and we should be very careful about the size of the remote control . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : if we are going to add a speech interface , i 'm not sure with trendy slim size of the remote control it would be able to put a speech recog user interface : yeah . yes , possible . marketing : if you want to put a speech recognition system f interface for that i think the tv itself could have it . user interface : yeah . but industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and i could talk to the tv television itself . project manager : except if if you are far from the tv . marketing : i need not have an user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i mean we have some or something , different technology but project manager : this is it 's user interface : yeah , yeah . but th the main idea i wanted to s i wanted to say is that um there should be a function , instead of choosing the ch tv channel , there 's a option you can choose , either tv channels or or pr or the or the contain or the contents of the programme . industrial designer : on the content . marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah it 's it 's a good idea it 's a good idea project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so it 's more powerful . yeah . industrial designer : but i i think that technically it would be um a little bit uh uh more tricky to to achieve this than just to user interface : no . no , because you see now all the tv programmes are available on the webs . they they are they are they are available in x_m_l_ format or whatever the format . we do n't care . we just say that this are some content . we just want to retrieve the content and then classi sort them by the types of programmes . some of the websites they already provide this service , industrial designer : yeah yeah . </s>
<s> why did user interface recommend a speech recognition interface when discussing the functions ? </s> user interface : uh . we maybe you can have a speech uh recognition interface . you just tell the television i want which channel . project manager : you wo n't user interface : or or you can say for example , um i want uh to list all the programme tonight . y you know , instead of uh remote control it 's doing the some searching for you , so you do n't have to look for the channel you want . just say maybe i just want to press i wan na have a button for all the movies tonight . or a button for all the magazines , all the information documentary tonight . and then you list a few , and i will choose from the list . so instead of pressing the channel number , i am choosing the programmes directly . yeah , that 's one way of uh making it useful . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : i i think if we include a lot of technology on the remote control it will be very costly . user interface : no , because no , project manager : s user interface : it 's not very a lot . th this information exists . for example you can get um project manager : like s uh you you you say we can use speech . user interface : you can use uh well for example anything . the the idea of using speech to reduce the button , but uh and it 's more natural . yeah . industrial designer : i i think if you want t to choose uh from a list of programme or or something like that you you may have to to use uh w uh i dunno marketing : i 'm a okay . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : i mean the main uh function of remote control is to have something in the hand project manager : in the hand . marketing : and we should be very careful about the size of the remote control . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : if we are going to add a speech interface , i 'm not sure with trendy slim size of the remote control it would be able to put a speech recog user interface : yeah . yes , possible . marketing : if you want to put a speech recognition system f interface for that i think the tv itself could have it . user interface : yeah . but industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and i could talk to the tv television itself . project manager : except if if you are far from the tv . marketing : i need not have an user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i mean we have some or something , different technology but project manager : this is it 's user interface : yeah , yeah . but th the main idea i wanted to s i wanted to say is that um there should be a function , instead of choosing the ch tv channel , there 's a option you can choose , either tv channels or or pr or the or the contain or the contents of the programme . industrial designer : on the content . marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah it 's it 's a good idea it 's a good idea project manager : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did marketing say about the size of the remote control and why he/she brought up the topic when discussing the functions ? </s> marketing : and we should be very careful about the size of the remote control . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : if we are going to add a speech interface , i 'm not sure with trendy slim size of the remote control it would be able to put a speech recog user interface : yeah . yes , possible . marketing : if you want to put a speech recognition system f interface for that i think the tv itself could have it . user interface : yeah . but industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and i could talk to the tv television itself . project manager : except if if you are far from the tv . marketing : i need not have an user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did user interface propose in the discussion about buttons when discussing the functions ? </s> user interface : and then there 's there are only six buttons for six categories , or sev seven . the most there are only seven buttons . so i just choose the category one and you reuse the same button , for example to to choose among the the sorted list the programme you want , so you do n't have to choose among hundred channels , if you have hundred channels , you just have six buttons , seven buttons . project manager : yeah we should also optimise the the number of buttons . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : well i i i i think that j just by using navigation buttons and the user interface on the screen we are able to uh navigate uh through the well channel programme or contents or in an easy way , so project manager : this is good idea . user interface : yeah . ah , yes . so . yeah . yeah , so you do n't have to display here , just display on the tv screen , right ? industrial designer : yeah in the dis display on the tv screen user interface : good idea . okay . industrial designer : and just uh with the with your remote control would just navigate through the f user interface : i think i think that will be revol revolutionary . project manager : industrial designer : </s>
<s> what would the team talk about in the next meeting ? </s> user interface : okay , alright . so so the most functional des mm the most important function is to ch choo buttons to choose the content . right ? we agree on that , right ? industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay . user interface : uh , uh first one is to uh buttons i or it could be anything with buttons . uh to choose uh content s or channels . project manager : yeah . user interface : so we have both . the user can choose w which one they want , right ? industrial designer : yeah , by content or by channel , user interface : by content or by channel . industrial designer : it 's a good idea . user interface : choose by contents or by channels . and then what did we say just now ? other than this . industrial designer : and uh we we have to find a way how to gather information about the contents . user interface : okay , so technically how the problems that how to do it is to how to get the content . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : challenge . industrial designer : i think i it 's not very difficult to to browse by channel but it 's a little bit tricky to browse by contents so user interface : okay . content . okay , so these we have to work it out . so this one of the problem . and uh industrial designer : i think that 's the the things to do user interface : the main thing . industrial designer : and uh to uh reflect about it user interface : okay . alright . alright , okay . industrial designer : and uh discuss it in the next meeting . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay , well i think we 're ready to begin . right , my name 's adam duguid , we 're here because of real reaction , um , we have in the group marketing : oh , ebenezer ademesoye . would you like me to spell that ? project manager : um , yeah , go for it mate . marketing : um , n_e_z_ project manager : n_ e_ z_ . marketing : e_r_ . project manager : ebenezer . and your role is ? marketing : i 'm the marketing expert . project manager : you 're the marketing expert , okay . next we have ? industrial designer : tarik rahman . t_a_r_i_k_ . project manager : t_ r_ i_ k_ . and your role in this is ? industrial designer : industrial designer . project manager : industrial designer . and , lastly we have ? user interface : uh , dave cochrane . project manager : and you 're going to be the user interface , user interface : user interface defin designer , yes . project manager : is it ? designer . okay . right . this is the agenda for today 's meeting . as you can see , w opening , acquaintance , tool training , project plan discussion , and closing . um , we already got n through opening , and partially through acquaintance . so , the reason we 're here , we 're gon na design a new remote control , as you probably all know . the very broad overview is original , trendy , and user-friendly . course , we 'll have to go into a bit more um detail than that , but uh personally i think that the original is gon na be a very key aspect to this design . um , there 's a lot of remote controls out there anyway , so we 're gon na need something that 's really gon na set it apart . this is how today seems to be going to work . we 're gon na have the three kay phases , as you 've probably already been told , the functional , architectural , and the detailed design . um first one 's gon na be covering the user requirement spec , technical functions , working design . second seems to be conceptual components , properties , materials , and the last one is a detailed analysis of our design so far . of course , you 've all got the similar emails , i believe , right . what can i say ? ebenezer , you wan na have a you wan na draw your favourite animal ? industrial designer : marketing : sure . whiteboard . 'kay . s okay . i will make this quick , since we do n't have much time . um . 'kay , so it 's not the best picture in the world . project manager : marketing : here we have an elephant . first point , begins with an e_ , same like ebenezer . also , elephants have a very good memory , much like myself , industrial designer : marketing : and i ca n't remember back when i used to live back in nigeria , but i think i used to have a pet elephant . so elephants are big , strong and gentle , and they have great memories , and they begin with the letter e_ , just like ebenezer . project manager : brilliantly done . thank you . marketing : thank you . project manager : tarik , would you like to have a shot at a bit of artistry ? industrial designer : . project manager : oh , um , marketing : oh . oh oh project manager : you can clip them to your belt . industrial designer : do we take them off ? marketing : i think you ga industrial designer : oh right , project manager : you should also l um have your the lapel mic on as well . industrial designer : okay . marketing : the little the the industrial designer : ah-ha . marketing : oh that 's good , we can clip them on . okay . yeah , industrial designer : now where do i put the marketing : just um somewhere project manager : yep , the , it 's just across there , that 's it . yep . industrial designer : is this supposed to be clipped as well ? project manager : yeah . marketing : i think so . project manager : it 'll follow you if you marketing : yeah . there you go . project manager : you can probably just stick it in your pocket for now , i would n't worry too much . should have good range . industrial designer : uh , destroying your elephant here . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : uh , here we have a tiger . uh i 've always loved tigers . they 're just they 're big , they 're biggest cats , uh i did a project on cats in the wild when i was a kid and uh it was my favourite cat , just 'cause it was looks the best , the stripes , orange . my dad used to talk about he 's from bangladesh so he used to tell me all about them when he was when i was a kid . and uh they 're just the most feared of of uh animals in the wild . so uh that 's why i like them . did n't say an anything about me really but project manager : excellent , thank you very much . dave , if you 'd like to uh have a dash . user interface : um um , the monkey , um . the one f uh in fact this is a somewhat oblique reference in fact to uh well my i have a three uh three y year old daughter who h who who who is affectionately known as miss monkey . um , monkeys have attitude . which i think is a good thing . and i mean fr and from uh from the point of view of sort of the study of human evolution they and other primates are terribly interesting . um , so i like monkeys . and and th th th th thi thi this one seems to have perhaps more attitude than most . industrial designer : project manager : cheers . hardly what i 'd call the best drawing in the world but it 'll do for now . also not quite as feared as your average tiger , but uh cats are one of my favourite animals , they 're very independent , they 're snotty as hell at the best of times , and uh , what can you say , you got to love those qualities in an animal . right . i think we 've all managed to master the whiteboard there by looks of it , so , on to it . project finance . as you can see , twelve point five euros per unit . that 's not a terrible lot as far as i 'm aware , and we 're hoping to sell them for twenty five . if we 're aiming for fifty million euros we 're gon na have to be selling an awful lot of them . marketing : oh , that was profiting , that was an amount , so that 's the amount made , okay . project manager : well , fifty million , and if you 're making twelve point five euros on each one , then , awful lot need to be sold . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . now we better actually just get on with the uh the meat of the project . so i 'm gon na guess that we 've all used remote controls . any ideas of where you think a new remote control could go into this market ? user interface : well , one thing i 'm aware of is , th there uh um at the sort of v very high price end of the market there 's there 's a em emerging market for sort of touch screen lcd remotes that can be uh programmed in m much more sophisticated ways than sort of conventional models , so you get the sort of you get um you you can redesign the interface to your own needs , you can programme in macros , and you get a much greater degree um um i mean you get in these sort of three in one , five in one , whatevers , but you can get integration between the different uh the the the diff the different things that it 's designed to control , to a much greater extent , and you can have one uh you know one macro to turn the uh you know turn the tv to the right channel , get the uh re uh rewind the tape in the v_c_r_ and get it to play once it 's rewound , for instance . project manager : okay . user interface : um b it occurs to me there might be a niche for uh for a remote that aimed towards some of that sort of functionality but using a just conventional push button design . and therefore putting it into a um well much lower price bracket . project manager : okay , yeah , tha that 's true , with the price range we 're looking at , going for a touch screen would probably be possibly out of our user interface : absolutely prohibitive , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : but you think uh again something to control multiple units in uh a simple fashion . user interface : yeah , i mean i would n't like to say you g i mean you get ones that you can switch between multiple units , but something that could um operate between multiple units in a more integrated fashion . some and ideally something into which it would have some at least limited facility for um running macros . project manager : would the the idea something along the lines of , one on button would turn on say the video recorder , the tv , maybe the sound system as well , all in one go , is that kind of user interface : for instance , um let 's say oh oh um , or um you know you pr uh you press uh say the play button for the d_v_d_ player and it turns the tv on and onto the right channel as well , um project manager : okay , that sounds like a a good strong idea . um any takes on this ? marketing : well um i 've noticed that uh gaming c is becoming quite popular with television , um when i was younger we used to e play games using our cable , using the cable subscribed the cable providers , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but our remote controls would get worn out really easily , and the remote control was not a great kind of keyboar , um keypad , for playing games . project manager : okay . marketing : so perhaps one that was more um specialised for game playing or interactive television . they they 've recently brought out this new remote control , for people to set their favourite channels , or um to record things . instead of people entering in what time things start , you simply stri slide a bar to say what time it begins , project manager : okay . marketing : and slide another bar to say what time it ends , you know that 's project manager : yeah i 've heard i 've seen the bar-code design before , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , it 's it 's taken out the y you do n't have to be uh really clever to use a remote control . i think for gaming , you know you want you want some big buttons for up , down , left and right , shoot . project manager : marketing : uh , you wan na be able to change angles in interactive television , so you need buttons to change the television angle , the camera angles and stuff like that . project manager : okay , well industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : we 're beginning to run out of time now , so , we 've got a couple of ideas , marketing : yeah . project manager : we can we 'll have to work fast , um , alright as you can see we 've got thirty minutes until the next meeting , so we 'll have to try and decide on some of the basic functionality , um , how the user interface might work , that 'll be a key aspect especially if the idea of um some kind of macros facility because you have to program it , you have to have a lot of response back , or at least some kind . um user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : and we 're gon na maybe n try and have to figure out marketing : what the user wants uh . project manager : what the user wants , yes . marketing : okay . project manager : um , right . has anybody got anything they 'd like to add at this stage , anything they think that might have been missed so far ? industrial designer : well when you 're talking about gaming and stuff , do you think they should have some sort of stick on it , rather than buttons ? marketing : oh . okay , . industrial designer : like uh control pads , you know of games , but marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or is that a bit ridiculous ? project manager : i i do n't see why not , almost everybody is probably used to a console by now , and all of them incorporate small keypads on them , in fact even the mobile phones these days are beginning to use them as well , so it 's probably an interface that most people are used to . um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and that could allow n easy navigation , used as a joystick as well . user interface : mm-hmm . the other key feature that uh that would be a good idea built into it is t is is to make something you know fairly sort of ergonomic , something that just fits fits as comfortably as possible into the hand . but of course , uh al al also allows for the possibility of a more sort of slightly unconventional or attractive uh sha shape for it overall , . project manager : okay . so , user interface : a curve , project manager : small , stylish , and something that 's just a little different . user interface : mm-hmm . something sort of sort of sl slightly sort of biomorphic in form , uh which it would need to be to sort of conform to the shape of the hand more efficiently anyway . project manager : okay . that 's definitely something that we should be able to do quite easily . i would i would have hoped so anyway . um , right . i 'd say we finish this one up , we get started , i 'll get in , i 'll write up what we 've um kind of quickly done , and i 'll get that out to everybody . yeah ? marketing : 'kay . so . project manager : okay . marketing : . industrial designer : . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about project finance and the new remote control design ? </s> project manager : cheers . hardly what i 'd call the best drawing in the world but it 'll do for now . also not quite as feared as your average tiger , but uh cats are one of my favourite animals , they 're very independent , they 're snotty as hell at the best of times , and uh , what can you say , you got to love those qualities in an animal . right . i think we 've all managed to master the whiteboard there by looks of it , so , on to it . project finance . as you can see , twelve point five euros per unit . that 's not a terrible lot as far as i 'm aware , and we 're hoping to sell them for twenty five . if we 're aiming for fifty million euros we 're gon na have to be selling an awful lot of them . marketing : oh , that was profiting , that was an amount , so that 's the amount made , okay . project manager : well , fifty million , and if you 're making twelve point five euros on each one , then , awful lot need to be sold . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . now we better actually just get on with the uh the meat of the project . so i 'm gon na guess that we 've all used remote controls . any ideas of where you think a new remote control could go into this market ? user interface : well , one thing i 'm aware of is , th there uh um at the sort of v very high price end of the market there 's there 's a em emerging market for sort of touch screen lcd remotes that can be uh programmed in m much more sophisticated ways than sort of conventional models , so you get the sort of you get um you you can redesign the interface to your own needs , you can programme in macros , and you get a much greater degree um um i mean you get in these sort of three in one , five in one , whatevers , but you can get integration between the different uh the the the diff the different things that it 's designed to control , to a much greater extent , and you can have one uh you know one macro to turn the uh you know turn the tv to the right channel , get the uh re uh rewind the tape in the v_c_r_ and get it to play once it 's rewound , for instance . project manager : okay . user interface : um b it occurs to me there might be a niche for uh for a remote that aimed towards some of that sort of functionality but using a just conventional push button design . and therefore putting it into a um well much lower price bracket . project manager : okay , yeah , tha that 's true , with the price range we 're looking at , going for a touch screen would probably be possibly out of our user interface : absolutely prohibitive , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : but you think uh again something to control multiple units in uh a simple fashion . user interface : yeah , i mean i would n't like to say you g i mean you get ones that you can switch between multiple units , but something that could um operate between multiple units in a more integrated fashion . some and ideally something into which it would have some at least limited facility for um running macros . project manager : would the the idea something along the lines of , one on button would turn on say the video recorder , the tv , maybe the sound system as well , all in one go , is that kind of user interface : for instance , um let 's say oh oh um , or um you know you pr uh you press uh say the play button for the d_v_d_ player and it turns the tv on and onto the right channel as well , um project manager : okay , that sounds like a a good strong idea . um any takes on this ? marketing : well um i 've noticed that uh gaming c is becoming quite popular with television , um when i was younger we used to e play games using our cable , using the cable subscribed the cable providers , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but our remote controls would get worn out really easily , and the remote control was not a great kind of keyboar , um keypad , for playing games . project manager : okay . marketing : so perhaps one that was more um specialised for game playing or interactive television . they they 've recently brought out this new remote control , for people to set their favourite channels , or um to record things . instead of people entering in what time things start , you simply stri slide a bar to say what time it begins , project manager : okay . marketing : and slide another bar to say what time it ends , you know that 's project manager : yeah i 've heard i 've seen the bar-code design before , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , it 's it 's taken out the y you do n't have to be uh really clever to use a remote control . i think for gaming , you know you want you want some big buttons for up , down , left and right , shoot . project manager : marketing : uh , you wan na be able to change angles in interactive television , so you need buttons to change the television angle , the camera angles and stuff like that . project manager : okay , well </s>
<s> summarize user interface 's opinions towards the new remote control design . </s> project manager : okay . now we better actually just get on with the uh the meat of the project . so i 'm gon na guess that we 've all used remote controls . any ideas of where you think a new remote control could go into this market ? user interface : well , one thing i 'm aware of is , th there uh um at the sort of v very high price end of the market there 's there 's a em emerging market for sort of touch screen lcd remotes that can be uh programmed in m much more sophisticated ways than sort of conventional models , so you get the sort of you get um you you can redesign the interface to your own needs , you can programme in macros , and you get a much greater degree um um i mean you get in these sort of three in one , five in one , whatevers , but you can get integration between the different uh the the the diff the different things that it 's designed to control , to a much greater extent , and you can have one uh you know one macro to turn the uh you know turn the tv to the right channel , get the uh re uh rewind the tape in the v_c_r_ and get it to play once it 's rewound , for instance . project manager : okay . user interface : um b it occurs to me there might be a niche for uh for a remote that aimed towards some of that sort of functionality but using a just conventional push button design . and therefore putting it into a um well much lower price bracket . project manager : okay , yeah , tha that 's true , with the price range we 're looking at , going for a touch screen would probably be possibly out of our user interface : absolutely prohibitive , project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : but you think uh again something to control multiple units in uh a simple fashion . user interface : yeah , i mean i would n't like to say you g i mean you get ones that you can switch between multiple units , but something that could um operate between multiple units in a more integrated fashion . some and ideally something into which it would have some at least limited facility for um running macros . project manager : would the the idea something along the lines of , one on button would turn on say the video recorder , the tv , maybe the sound system as well , all in one go , is that kind of user interface : for instance , um let 's say oh oh um , or um you know you pr uh you press uh say the play button for the d_v_d_ player and it turns the tv on and onto the right channel as well , um project manager : okay , that sounds like a a good strong idea . um any takes on this ? </s>
<s> summarize marketing 's opinions towards the new remote control design . </s> marketing : well um i 've noticed that uh gaming c is becoming quite popular with television , um when i was younger we used to e play games using our cable , using the cable subscribed the cable providers , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but our remote controls would get worn out really easily , and the remote control was not a great kind of keyboar , um keypad , for playing games . project manager : okay . marketing : so perhaps one that was more um specialised for game playing or interactive television . they they 've recently brought out this new remote control , for people to set their favourite channels , or um to record things . instead of people entering in what time things start , you simply stri slide a bar to say what time it begins , project manager : okay . marketing : and slide another bar to say what time it ends , you know that 's project manager : yeah i 've heard i 've seen the bar-code design before , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , it 's it 's taken out the y you do n't have to be uh really clever to use a remote control . i think for gaming , you know you want you want some big buttons for up , down , left and right , shoot . project manager : marketing : uh , you wan na be able to change angles in interactive television , so you need buttons to change the television angle , the camera angles and stuff like that . project manager : okay , well </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the keypad and ergonomic design of the new remote control ? </s> project manager : we 're beginning to run out of time now , so , we 've got a couple of ideas , marketing : yeah . project manager : we can we 'll have to work fast , um , alright as you can see we 've got thirty minutes until the next meeting , so we 'll have to try and decide on some of the basic functionality , um , how the user interface might work , that 'll be a key aspect especially if the idea of um some kind of macros facility because you have to program it , you have to have a lot of response back , or at least some kind . um user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : and we 're gon na maybe n try and have to figure out marketing : what the user wants uh . project manager : what the user wants , yes . marketing : okay . project manager : um , right . has anybody got anything they 'd like to add at this stage , anything they think that might have been missed so far ? industrial designer : well when you 're talking about gaming and stuff , do you think they should have some sort of stick on it , rather than buttons ? marketing : oh . okay , . industrial designer : like uh control pads , you know of games , but marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or is that a bit ridiculous ? project manager : i i do n't see why not , almost everybody is probably used to a console by now , and all of them incorporate small keypads on them , in fact even the mobile phones these days are beginning to use them as well , so it 's probably an interface that most people are used to . um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and that could allow n easy navigation , used as a joystick as well . user interface : mm-hmm . the other key feature that uh that would be a good idea built into it is t is is to make something you know fairly sort of ergonomic , something that just fits fits as comfortably as possible into the hand . but of course , uh al al also allows for the possibility of a more sort of slightly unconventional or attractive uh sha shape for it overall , . project manager : okay . so , user interface : a curve , project manager : small , stylish , and something that 's just a little different . user interface : mm-hmm . something sort of sort of sl slightly sort of biomorphic in form , uh which it would need to be to sort of conform to the shape of the hand more efficiently anyway . project manager : okay . that 's definitely something that we should be able to do quite easily . i would i would have hoped so anyway . um , right . i 'd say we finish this one up , we get started , i 'll get in , i 'll write up what we 've um kind of quickly done , and i 'll get that out to everybody . yeah ? marketing : 'kay . so . project manager : okay . marketing : . industrial designer : . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the special button design for game players when discussing keypad and ergonomic design of the new remote control ? </s> marketing : well um i 've noticed that uh gaming c is becoming quite popular with television , um when i was younger we used to e play games using our cable , using the cable subscribed the cable providers , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but our remote controls would get worn out really easily , and the remote control was not a great kind of keyboar , um keypad , for playing games . project manager : okay . marketing : so perhaps one that was more um specialised for game playing or interactive television . they they 've recently brought out this new remote control , for people to set their favourite channels , or um to record things . instead of people entering in what time things start , you simply stri slide a bar to say what time it begins , project manager : okay . marketing : and slide another bar to say what time it ends , you know that 's project manager : yeah i 've heard i 've seen the bar-code design before , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , it 's it 's taken out the y you do n't have to be uh really clever to use a remote control . i think for gaming , you know you want you want some big buttons for up , down , left and right , shoot . project manager : marketing : uh , you wan na be able to change angles in interactive television , so you need buttons to change the television angle , the camera angles and stuff like that . project manager : okay , well industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : um , right . has anybody got anything they 'd like to add at this stage , anything they think that might have been missed so far ? industrial designer : well when you 're talking about gaming and stuff , do you think they should have some sort of stick on it , rather than buttons ? marketing : oh . okay , . industrial designer : like uh control pads , you know of games , but marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or is that a bit ridiculous ? project manager : i i do n't see why not , almost everybody is probably used to a console by now , and all of them incorporate small keypads on them , in fact even the mobile phones these days are beginning to use them as well , so it 's probably an interface that most people are used to . um industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> why did user interface think of a curve design when discussing keypad and ergonomic design of the new remote control ? </s> user interface : mm-hmm . the other key feature that uh that would be a good idea built into it is t is is to make something you know fairly sort of ergonomic , something that just fits fits as comfortably as possible into the hand . but of course , uh al al also allows for the possibility of a more sort of slightly unconventional or attractive uh sha shape for it overall , . project manager : okay . so , user interface : a curve , project manager : small , stylish , and something that 's just a little different . user interface : mm-hmm . something sort of sort of sl slightly sort of biomorphic in form , uh which it would need to be to sort of conform to the shape of the hand more efficiently anyway . project manager : okay . that 's definitely something that we should be able to do quite easily . i would i would have hoped so anyway . um , right . i 'd say we finish this one up , we get started , i 'll get in , i 'll write up what we 've um kind of quickly done , and i 'll get that out to everybody . yeah ? marketing : 'kay . so . project manager : okay . marketing : . industrial designer : . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone , and welcome to today 's meeting of the children , young people and education committee . we 've received no apologies for absence . can i ask members whether there are any declarations of interest , please ? darren millar am : yes , i have a declaration of interest , chair . i understand that my daughter features in one of the videos that is going to be used to contribute evidence to this inquiry . and , in addition , i 'm a governor of one of the schools that features in the video . lynne neagle am : thank you , darren . so , item 2 , then , today is our first session on the provision of textbooks and learning resources for pupils , which is a video of interviews with young people and teachers . the committee team has been out to take video evidence around wales , and we 're now going to watch the results of that on the screen . okay . well , i 'm sure that the committee would want me to place on record our thanks to the young people and the teachers who took part in that very helpful and informative video . we 'll move on now then to our evidence session , and i 'm very pleased to welcome gareth pierce , chief executive of the wjec , mike ebbsworth , assistant director educational support , wjec , philip blaker , chief executive of qualifications wales , and emyr george , associate director general qualifications at qualifications wales . so , thank you all of you for attending and thank you for the papers that you provided in advance as well . if you 're happy , we 'll go straight into questions now , and if i can just start by asking you to outline what you see as your role in ensuring that students and teachers in wales have the resources that they need to pass general qualifications and what you think the role of commercial publishers and welsh government is . philip blaker : shall i start ? so , qualifications wales is the regulator of the awarding bodies , so we regulate awarding bodies . our powers are structured around the regulating of awarding bodies . we do n't regulate commercial publishers nor the provision of textbooks within that . in regulating the awarding body , our primary focus is also on the design of the qualifications and then the delivery of the assessment . so , it 's much more around the assessment side than teaching resources . that said , when we are going through the design of the qualifications , we go through an approval process , so we develop approval criteria and we ask wjec to submit their specifications against those approval criteria and sample assessment materials as well . so , our focus is very much on making sure that teachers are able , through the sample assessment materials and the specifications , to have a good understanding of what is going to be expected of them in the examinations and of their pupils in the examinations . so , that 's setting out the knowledge , skills and understandings that will be assessed by wjec when those exams are sat . we have in the past pulled together groups of people to look at issues like resources . so , during the last round of approvals , we pulled together interested parties in welsh government , regional consortia and wjec to look at resources that would be available with a view to facilitating the discussion about who would be best placed to fill the gaps where there may be perceived to be gaps in resources . our other primary role is in maintaining standards . so , as the regulator of qualifications , what we want to do is we want to make that the awards of qualifications—so , the grades that people get—are fair . one of the things we do is set out the way in which the awarding bodies will set grades—so , the awarding process , the methods that will be used—and then we monitor wjec's award of grades against those processes . during a period of change , we prescribe the use of comparable outcomes as the primary approach , largely because comparable outcomes are designed for circumstances like this , where there 's a change in a specification particularly , because there are any number of reasons , including resources , why performance may be different from one year to the next , but comparable outcomes is there to ensure that , all things being equal , if the cohorts have the same ability , the same grade should be awarded from one year to the next . we do recognise that there have been delays in textbooks . much of that has been related to the timelines that we 've all had to deliver new specifications against , which have been far from ideal for everybody involved . we think that particularly our role moving forward will be looking at the timelines for reforms that will be necessary for the new curriculum to make sure that this situation is n't repeated and that there is sufficient time in future reforms to allow for greater system readiness . in terms of the roles of others , welsh government have a role at the moment in terms of grant funding of translation of materials into welsh medium . and there is , through the common model at the moment—and this is a model that is common between england and wales—a reliance on commercial publishers to provide textbooks . now , that 's something that probably needs to be looked at in the future in terms of potential different models for how that might be achieved and also , potentially , around a paradigm shift in what 's expected of those materials . so , i think that sets out qualification wales 's position in particular . lynne neagle am : thank you . gareth . gareth pierce : thank you very much . the wjec does provide what 's required in a regulatory sense , and there are two things there—the specification , which tends to be very comprehensive in providing guidance in terms of drawing up a programme of teaching , and also exemplar assessments , which include marking , and those go to the regulator before they are published . so , those samples go to the regulator . the wjec also do invest a great deal in resources that we produce digitally in both languages simultaneously . each new course has substantial teaching guidance , which includes a great deal of useful information for teachers and pupils . and we run a professional development programme for teachers that is free of charge when courses are new , and then annually there is some charge for those events . they are face-to-face events , or , increasingly , they are webinars . the wjec also encourages publishers to take an interest in providing textbooks . we do n't have a commercial agreement with publishers . indeed , the regulations as they stand in wales , northern ireland and england preclude examination bodies from having commercial links with providers of textbooks , but that is something that emerges from the three-nation regime that existed in terms of qualifications . so , that is one point that we noted as something that needs to be considered for wales as we move forward , whether it would be possible— . as we are not talking about examination boards competing with each other in wales for gcse and a-levels , in passing , that is something that i would want to suggest may deserve review . we encourage publishers to take an interest . at the moment , these tend to be england-based—hodder education and illuminate education , for example—and then the welsh government does provide funding to the wjec to support the process of providing welsh-language versions for those textbooks . so , we use that funding to provide editorial support to the process , and also to pay for translation costs , and we give significant guidance in terms of terminology . we have a language services team including excellent editors and translators within the wjec , and we work closely with external translators too , and we use translation technology increasingly , which facilitates a great many things . beyond that , i think the wjec does see the need for flexibility , particularly when difficulties arise , and you heard there of some of the methods used by mike and others to get digital resources available earlier than the print versions . and i should also note perhaps that , as the wjec is very much involved with stakeholders , we feel that we do have a contribution to make in terms of ideas for the future . lynne neagle am : thank you . we heard in the video that teachers are spending a lot of their time actually translating materials . what is your view on that as a good use of teachers ' time in wales ? gareth pierce : i think the question of translation is an interesting one . there was talk about pupils translating and teachers translating . i think perhaps we need to understand what causes the need for that because , as i mentioned earlier , there are so many resources available digitally in both languages at the same time . perhaps an interesting question is : is that source useful for teachers , being able to draw resources from two sources ? another interesting question , i think , is— . the welsh language , of course , is a language that is used in an educational context , but we are in a big world that 's an english language world . i 'm very aware that many of the websites we refer to in our resources and many of the case studies , as was mentioned in that video—they are available in english only . therefore , i think another interesting question is : can we discover what those additional resources are that are worth translating ? and , certainly , it would be very unfortunate if there were a dozen welsh-medium schools , for example , translating material from the same website independently of each other . if there are a few websites , or a few case studies , in this big external digital world that are worth translating , should n't we able to source those early ? because i do n't think it 's a good use of teachers ' time . but i also think that the use of both languages is an interesting one . what is the vision in terms of teaching in a welsh-medium class , in particular , perhaps , in the a-level classes ? i 'm sure that some teachers feel that there is a way of enriching the teaching by referring to terms in both languages , as well as explaining those terms in their own language . but the impression i got from the video was that there was quite a lot of mechanical translating happening , and perhaps there is a need to understand more of the context . lynne neagle am : llyr on this . llyr gruffydd am : just to pick up on your point on the additional materials , whose role would it be to asses this or to take that overview , and then to respond to the demand ? gareth pierce : mike , in the wjec , has conversations about resources in the team he 's part of . mike ebbsworth : yes . that is extremely important—to identify , as gareth has just said , those materials that need to be translated , and not everything needs to . we 've made a lot of use recently of speaking with teachers and the consortia , and ensuring then that we are focusing on those things that need that attention . llyr gruffydd am : but would you— ? the question i 'm asking is : would you still see that as a core part of your work , although it 's not necessarily essential in terms of the provision that you 're required to provide ? gareth pierce : yes , we invest substantially from the wjec budget into digital resources . so , through the types of conversations that mike mentioned , in terms of identifying needs , deciding on priorities with teachers in individual subject areas , that can provide very useful information for us in terms of prioritisation . of course , the digital packages that we create are already based on conversations with teachers . llyr gruffydd am : so , it 's already happening to a certain extent . gareth pierce : well , yes , but we could always go a step further . llyr gruffydd am : and do we need further resources for that ? gareth pierce : well , it 's an interesting question . the wjec is doing as much as we can— llyr gruffydd am : why is n't it happening to the extent that it needs to happen , then ? gareth pierce : one can always do more , of course . the wjec is trying to use its budget prudently , and most of our funding comes from payments made by schools and colleges in terms of taking assessments . so , we do have a budget , but it 's not a bottomless pit . so , we do need to make choices within the substantial budget we have in terms of the work that mike is undertaking . mike ebbsworth : there is a need to be careful as well in identifying resources and needs , and that those are suited towards the requirements . quite often a teacher—and i 've been a teacher myself—has this idea that there is a need to have everything . but , certainly , that 's not always the case . quite often , the focus is on different things . there has been a move towards different means of assessment over recent years , and we 've moved our resources towards that to meet the needs of teachers on how to undertake that sort of assessment . llyr gruffydd am : okay . thank you . lynne neagle am : did you want to come in on any of this ? philip blaker : i 'm just going to say one thing . teachers will want to be creative in the use of resources , and , in doing that , they 'll potentially want to adapt resources from either language . i think one of the things that we would be quite keen to try and establish moving forward is what is the common core that should by default be available bilingually , and then what sits around that that would be for schools to use creatively and adapt . and what i would n't want to see is a default position where all materials were bilingual—a wide range of resources that might be created from all sorts of diverse , different channels—because that may inhibit the creation of some of those materials that may be more creative , which could then be used by teachers as they see appropriate . but i think it is reasonable to expect for that core , common body of knowledge to be available bilingually by default , and for teachers not to have to spend time translating that . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . a final question from me , then . the £500,000 funding for welsh-medium educational resource that 's in the budget for 2018-19—are you able to share any information with the committee as to how that 's going to be spent ? gareth pierce : tthe wjec has some information in terms of that budget . it is a welsh government budget , and they have annual discussions with us as to what resources we are likely to be working on along with publishers , and where we would like to make a claim against that grant to pay for the editorial and translation costs that we will have incurred . now , there have been conversations recently about possible support from that grant for some research work into the use of various materials and resources , and also , although this would be a very small part , a contribution towards seminars for publishers . but that is n't a full picture of the £500,000 ; i think you would have to ask the welsh government about the exact allocation of that total fund . but there may be some flexibility . we 've just started this financial year ; i 'm sure there is some flexibility in their thinking in terms of the use of some of this resource . do you want to add anything , mike ? mike ebbsworth : certainly . we have contributed a list of publications , for example , that are ongoing , and they 're aware of that , and a percentage of that funding then will go towards ensuring that those are there through the medium of welsh . lynne neagle am : thank you . darren millar . darren millar am : this is a huge mess , is n't it ? it 's a huge mess , which is causing lots of pressure and extra work for teachers , lots of pressure and extra work for learners , and is affecting the well-being of students , at a time when they need to be mentally fit , in order to go through the general stress that learners face when they have exams coming up . we know that the problems are not confined to welsh-medium resources ; they 're also being experienced in english language resources as well , particularly in terms of the availability of textbooks . you 've both mentioned—both of your organisations have mentioned that there needs to be some sort of common core of resources available for learners and teachers , and i would agree with you on that front . but is n't a textbook a pretty basic element of anybody 's toolkit for supporting a child getting through the information that they need to learn , and swot up on , in advance of exams ? gareth pierce : i think that the evidence is that different learners see their requirements differently . and i agree that a textbook is part of the picture that should be available . but i think the evidence also shows that not every young person will use them ; perhaps the teacher uses them . there is an emphasis , for example , from one pupil there , on that traditional model of revision , namely class notes and his own revision notes , but that he personally also wanted a textbook . so , certainly , the content of a textbook is going to be important , and that that 's available in some form or other . it was very interesting to know , for example , that when he was describing the traditional model of revision , he felt that he 'd had quite a lot of the content of the textbook through the classroom notes . much of that digital content , of course , corresponds to the content areas of a textbook , but it 's just in a different form . but , in general , there should be a textbook . and some of our frustration as well is that the timetables of some individual publishers do n't always get us to the point where there is a textbook available in time . that does n't happen so often in english medium , but we know about that gap in time in the welsh provision . darren millar am : well , it 's happened fairly regularly in the english-medium textbook world , has n't it ? my daughter—she featured in that video—has got her rs qualifications coming up , and she only had a textbook over the easter period . i mean , it's completely unacceptable . and many others in that video are also being affected . you mentioned digital resources ; not everybody 's got access to digital resources in their own homes , even , in wales . so , are n't we giving a significant disadvantage to those learners who might need the traditional 'swotting up from a textbook ' method of revision and benefit from that ? mike ebbsworth : we do ensure that those digital resources include things that the teachers can also print . most of these are resources for teachers so that the teachers can adapt them for their own use , to suit the learners who are in front of them at any given time . but certainly there are materials there . if there are activities , then those activities can be printed off and handed to pupils so that they can take them home . so , i would be sceptical about that comment . we are thinking of the totality , ultimately . gareth pierce : i think you 're right that the availability of technology is an important part of this big picture . the young people talk about websites and blogs , and we 're talking about digital resources , so being able to reach those resources , i think , is vital in wales . it 's interesting to note two contradictory remarks from the teaching associations in the letters . one praises what 's available digitally , whereas another teaching organisation sees this as more work for teachers . as mike said , we've created those resources that can be adapted . one teaching organisation says that it just creates more work , while another organisation says that the digital resource is something that's very valuable . of course , the headteacher at the end was praising the fact that , in a situation of crisis or unacceptable timetables , we have succeeded in creating some resources that will be in the textbook later , but available digitally at an early stage . but i agree with your core comment that technology is vital , and access to that , and also the content of a textbook in some form is vital as well . darren millar am : mr blaker , you would agree that a textbook should be an essential core piece of the resource pack available for each qualification . philip blaker : i think we would n't want to underplay the desirability of textbooks , recognising that different learners have different learning styles and may look to different resources . i think what i 'd like to raise is a wider concern about textbooks in their current model , which is very much around the fact that every time there 's a change in a specification , there 's a new textbook , which is designed around that specification and is endorsed by an awarding body , which is a nice model for a publisher , because every time there 's a change , there 's an opportunity for a new textbook . there are two concerns that i 'd like to raise on that . first , the focus on teaching and learning . ofsted and also estyn have raised concerns about the focus in teaching on teaching to the test as a common concern in both nations . i have a concern that having a textbook that is endorsed by the awarding body and is designed specifically around that specification may lead to some of that tendency . and also , there 's the sustainability of the model . we know that we 're about to go into another round of reforms associated with the curriculum change . that 's going to lead to another round of textbooks that may need to be focused on qualifications . i think i 'd much rather see that textbooks are seen as a curriculum resource that are broader than , perhaps , the model of endorsement and the current model of publication suggest . darren millar am : so , you do n't think that a textbook for each subject should be a core resource for pupils who are learning in advance of examinations . emyr george : i 'd just like to pick you up on that . i think a textbook for each subject is absolutely an essential part of the broad range of resources that you 'd want to see available for people to choose what they prefer , but on a subject , perhaps , rather than a specific specification , because i think there 's a tendency to conflate the two , and much of the underlying content that is assessed in one specification , or a new updated specification , will remain unchanged . it is true that there may be a different focus or emphasis , or a different style of questioning , but that can be picked up more nimbly through supplementary digital resources , for example , which can highlight that change , particularly to a teacher , so that they can shape their lesson planning around that . what we are looking at here are reformed gcses and reformed a-levels in subjects that are well-established , traditional subjects , and so whilst it is not necessarily the ideal , i think it's important to remember that there is already a good deal of pre-existing resources , including textbooks , out there in schools already . we 're not for a moment saying that that is the situation that we would want everybody to be in . i think it might be preferable if the textbook was perfectly bespoke to the course and did n't contain any extraneous material , but that perhaps is an ideal picture and i think we do need to remember that there are already many resources out there that are available to teachers and to students . darren millar am : but of course , unlike their peers in perhaps other parts of the uk , we have teachers who are having to go meticulously through some of these other resources that might be available to determine whether they 're appropriate for use in the classroom , given that the specification is different in terms of the new qualifications . can i just ask you about the disadvantage that some learners might face as a result of the lack of textbooks ? mr blaker , i note that you sought to reassure the committee in some of your opening remarks about the fact that equivalent outcomes are what you aim to achieve in discussion with the wjec in terms of the outcome of assessments , and i think that that 's a very positive thing . but , how do you differentiate between the different learning styles of individual students who are in that cohort to ensure that the disadvantage that one faces because they 're somebody who relies particularly heavily on textbook-type learning , traditional sort of swotting up for examinations , versus someone who is much more digitally aware and able to use digital resources— ? how do you make sure that it 's fair to the cohort as a whole , while still enabling some of these individuals for whom textbooks are important not to face disadvantage within that cohort ? philip blaker : the systems that are in place are very much around making sure that awarding is fair across the whole cohort . it 's very difficult—in fact , it would be impossible—to unpick all of the different factors that might affect performance , because you could well have a textbook that 's been available for some time , it may be somebody 's preferred leaning style to use a textbook , but did they use that textbook effectively ? you know , did they open it in revision or did they not open it in revision ? so , there are so many different factors that can affect individual performance . i think it 's impossible to unpick a particular aspect like the availability of resources . motivation would be one thing , an individual learner 's motivation in the subject . the biggest input would be the quality of teaching . i think evidence has been provided to you by the regional consortia , which we saw yesterday . they particularly wanted to stress this point i think ; that the quality of teaching is probably the most dominant and the most important factor in relation to a learner 's ultimate performance in the examination . darren millar am : i understand that , but you also understand that someone who does n't have the resources that they feel are best suited to them face some element of a greater disadvantage than others for whom , perhaps , textbooks are less important . gareth pierce : i think also , perhaps , related to that , it is important to mention digital literacy here . every young person in wales , i would hope , taking gcse or a-level , should have that digital literacy in order to source the valuable materials available—that they should have those skills . then , they have the choice whether they go down the digital route , or do they do as mike suggested—much of the digital material can be printed—or do they then turn to textbooks , in the hope that those would be available ? that would then allow for a pupil 's personal learning choice to be reflected . it 's also important for teachers to confirm that their ways of teaching do support these alternative approaches taken by pupils . not every pupil will choose to learn or revise in exactly the same way . so , the flexibility for the pupil is very important , i think . darren millar am : i understand that , but i 've got people in my constituency who have n't even got a broadband link at home , so there 's a digital disadvantage as well . can i just ask you about the reason why this has taking so long to sort out ? it was back in 2015 that concerns were first raised about the availability of textbooks in both english and welsh for the new qualifications . we 're three years on , what on earth has been happening in the interim and why is it taking so long ? if you 've got these resources digitally , why ca n't they just be compounded into textbooks pretty straightforwardly ? gareth pierce : i think the main reason for that is that there are three series of reforms of qualifications that have happened . there were some in 2015 , other subjects in 2016 , and other subjects in 2017 . those three cycles of reform have all suffered from the short timetable that was between approving a qualification and publishers being able to start the work . perhaps an interesting comparison would be a subject being taught for the first time in 2015—where that subject has reached now in terms of resources . i would hope that each one of those subjects have more available now in terms of resources , and therefore we are adding each year—not textbooks but digital resources . there are more past papers available , of course . we are working on sample work at the request of teachers . so , every subject is moving on over a period of time of five to six years while that specification is being studied . but those same difficulties have , unfortunately , affected 2015 subjects and 2017 subjects , and that 's why we 're discussing the same thing in 2018 . darren millar am : so , it 's the scale of the challenge and the volume of the work ? philip blaker : i think gareth , in the evidence that he has provided to the committee previously , has said about the timeline , the schedule , for reforms . now , that 's a schedule that we inherited and was largely dominated by the schedule for reforms in england . now that we 've reached a point of divergence in gcses and a-levels , between england and wales , it gives us much more agency in the future to establish a timeline that does n't place the pressures on the system . so , gareth has quite rightly pointed out that there are three waves of reforms , but the pressures that build up in the first wave are consequential onto the next wave and the wave after that . so , the whole system has been pressured both from a regulatory perspective of the approval process , the awarding body preparing its submissions to use , and then system readiness thereafter . darren millar am : that timeline was obviously set by the welsh government . i assume that advice was given by wjec and qualifications wales and your predecessor organisation to the welsh government at that time protesting about the timescale that you were being expected to abide by . gareth pierce : yes , and similarly in england , the examination boards working in england would have provided the same advice to the government there . and , of course , the welsh government programme was associated with the reform programme in england , in particularly for those a-level subjects , where there was a strong influence from the universities across the uk in terms of what they wanted to see differently in the a-level subjects . so , england and wales have run on a very short timetable common to both countries , and i would say that every exam board and every publisher has seen this very challenging in wales and england . but our advice is that there is a real need for between 18 months and two years from completing a specification that has been approved , then being able to work with teachers on what their needs and requirements will be , thinking about what the teaching programme will be , and then starting to work with publishers and get resources available—ideally , with a year of preparation then for the teacher before they start teaching . so , as they will know what resources will be available , we 'll be able to discuss the use of those resources in our professional development programmes , and then that timeline is convenient for everybody . lynne neagle am : okay . darren , i 've got to bring llyr in now . llyr gruffydd am : estyn , naht , ucac , nasuwt , wjec and qualifications wales have pointed to the way in which the government has managed the reforms that have been happening over the past few years as one of the things that has led to some of these difficulties . you mentioned the fact that they come wave upon wave . well , what about the tsunami of curriculum reform that we 're currently facing ? that is , how confident can we be that the situation wo n't deteriorate as the new curriculum is introduced—rather than improve ? gareth pierce : that is a very key question , is n't it ? we have started to discuss this , specifically in particular in a forum that includes publishers in wales , with the welsh government around the table and qualifications wales around the table . i think one of the very interesting questions and important questions is : what will the nature of the information available in april 2019 be in terms of the new curriculum ? at what level of detail will it be ? to what extent will it be adapted again after april 2019 ? is it detailed enough , really , for teachers to start discussing their programmes of teaching , and that we then still have a role with publishers , even though this is for this curriculum and not for qualifications ? wjec has a tradition of publishing resources over the key stages and other key stages as well . i think there is a need to discuss the implications of the timetable as it starts to appear , because there is a need to start teaching the new curriculum in september 2022 . if we 're talking about a year of preparation , that brings us back to september 2021 . if we 're talking about working on resources available for that preparation year , we 're talking about september 2020 . so , the timetable does appear already tight , particularly if there 's something that 's not quite certain about that curriculum statement in 2019 , and that there is a lot of work to turn that into teaching programmes . so , i think it is a key question , and i ca n't be confident at the moment that this is going to work . lynne neagle am : did you want to come in , philip ? philip blaker : i think one of the big differences is it 's a tsunami we can see coming . so , young people will be assessed for the first time , assuming linear exams , in the summer 2027 , which is some way away , and , actually , given the reform process historically , this is probably the most foresight we 've seen of a big change like this . there is a big dependency on the curriculum and the curriculum being described in such a way that we can relate qualifications to that curriculum , because qualifications should relate to the curriculum rather than drive the curriculum , so we do need to see something coming out of that . i think , for us , once we 've seen the curriculum , and we 've got better sight of it , we 'll be able to plan things out . we 've already started engagement with awarding bodies over the possible supply chain for these new qualifications , and , ultimately , there 'll be a go/no-go decision that would need to be made , probably in 2023 , which would be that if the conditions do n't appear right for safe implementation , then we would make a recommendation to welsh government that these reforms are delayed in terms of the qualification , not in terms of the curriculum , for a year to allow the system to be able to catch up . so , we 're starting to plan out not only the whole of the process , but also thinking about where we might have to make key decisions . gareth pierce : just one very brief comment in that context : i think that the comment of the consortia jointly is important there . they emphasise , in the context of the curriculum , the importance of the autonomy of teachers in interpreting and providing , therefore i think we truly need to discuss that . does that suggest that there wo n't be so much need for national resources , or are those resources required to support that autonomy in any case ? we need to discuss that at an early stage and in detail , i think . llyr gruffydd am : yes , certainly , and one is concerned that that conversation is n't already happening , but , yes , okay , you 've made that point clearly . if i could return , therefore , to the commercial issue—clearly , there is a shortage of providers in wales , and we are reliant on others . you suggested that the wjec may be interested in stepping up and taking some sort of role if regulations were changed . i assume that that would be something that you would be eager to see happening in terms of the change to regulation in that context . gareth pierce : yes , and we 've been part of starting that discussion amongst publishers in wales . certainly , there is interest . i think that i have n't described correctly the purpose of a seminar to encourage interest : the interest is there , but there needs to be an understanding of what the implications are of working towards that kind of timetable , what the implications are of working in two languages , what kind of business model , perhaps , would be suitable for the publishers in wales , how much certainty could be given to them that there is a period of work , because they would want to build their teams , and develop skills within those teams , and to have enough certainty that this is worth doing . and therefore , those are the sort of issues that we 're starting a discussion on , in the hope of having a discussion in june to move that forward . of course , welsh government , qualifications wales and other stakeholders are part of this discussion , not only wjec , but we 've been part of initiating that discussion . llyr gruffydd am : is this developing at the pace that you would like to see it developing ? gareth pierce : yes , i think , and there is some enthusiasm . for example , a number of publishers in wales are within an association describing itself as cwlwm cyhoeddwyr cymru . myrddin ap dafydd is chair of cwlwm at the moment , and there is enthusiasm and vision , certainly . so , there 's a wonderful opportunity , i think , for wales to interpret these possibilities swiftly and then hopefully take action on them . llyr gruffydd am : and we 're talking here not just about translating but developing resources , and the point , i think , is an important one around some of the evidence that we 've received about the importance of developing resources naturally bilingually from the very beginning , rather than having to translate something . because there have been comments that translations are clunky , difficult to follow and not—i 'm not saying that they 're not fit for purpose , but certainly do n't facilitate teaching , perhaps , as easily as one would wish . gareth pierce : yes , i would agee , and that begins with the authors , does n't it ? we must have the authors— llyr gruffydd am : so , the expertise , and the same capacty with the publishers as well . gareth pierce : yes , and we do want to nurture authors within wales , particularly given that the new curriculum has to do justice to a welsh dimension within the curriculum in so many different subjects . so , we need authors who can be developed , and authors who would be willing to work with the publishers . that 's a very specific theme within one of the ideas of the seminars with publishers . llyr gruffydd am : would that market be viable without any sort of subsidy , if it were to develop bilingually ? or do we have to accept that they have to have an element of public subsidy ? gareth pierce : our view in the wjec is that subsidy will be necessary . but we could rethink the model for the subsidy , perhaps . at the moment , the subsidy is described as a subsidy for the welsh-medium version . why not rethink that and think of a subsidy for producing resources in two languages for the welsh curriculum ? and perhaps we would need a little more funding for that . but there will be organisations such as the wjec who will still be interested in contributing , because we are a charity , and within our mission is investment in various things that supports education in wales . llyr gruffydd am : but in terms of where we are now , resources have to be translated . i struggle at times to understand why it takes so much time to translate a resource . i would like to know better , perhaps , what the main barriers are in that sense . but also , how long is acceptable to wait for a translation , in your view ? mike ebbsworth : we 've done a great deal of work recently , over recent years , to ensure that that delay between having an english version and a welsh version is reduced . we are highly aware of the fact that the best-case scenario is that the welsh and the english are available simultaneously . in those terms , we 've taken huge steps forward with the publishers that we 've named this morning , so that we have discussed translation as the textbook is being produced . there is a risk there , of course . the nature of books is that the author may change his or her mind , or edit as he or she is writing . well , with that model , we would have to ensure that we approved as we moved forward , chapter by chapter perhaps , so that there would be no changes to be made from then on . at the end of the process , then , the publishers in england have agreed to hold the english version back for a period of time until the welsh version is available , and then to publish both simultaneously . unless that timetable is followed throughout the process , there are inherent risks in that process , of course , as i 've mentioned in terms of translation as we author materials , and in ensuring that that timetable is stuck to . gareth pierce : and perhaps there is a need to emphasise that the process is translation and editing as a package , and that sometimes the same amount of time goes on the editing , how the welsh works in terms of diagrams and things that are n't text necessarily—pictures and so forth . so , eight weeks , i think , is the time that we 've succeeded in agreeing with the publishers so that we can turn around the welsh version in that period of time . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . darren . darren millar am : i just want to ask about this eight-week delay . so , you ’ re telling us , mr ebbsworth , that the wjec has agreed with hodder and illuminate that , in future , even if an english textbook is available for publication , and it ’ s already late , you will further delay the availability of that textbook so that it can be published on the same day as the welsh-medium textbook ? mike ebbsworth : we can only work on those books that are in the process of being developed . naturally , if something is late in english , then that timetable would be affected in terms of a decision that will ultimately have to be taken . but that 's the hope : that when new textbooks are produced in english and authored in english , we would look at that eight-week period as a turnaround . darren millar am : i understand the point that you made earlier about the chapter-by-chapter approach , which seems much more equitable . but to suggest that you will delay books that could be available for students and could be available for teachers to be able to access by two months because you have n't got the systems in place to be able to produce them on the same day , seems to be wholly inappropriate . can i ask , also , why on earth it is n't possible to produce welsh-medium textbooks first and then translate them to english on occasions ? mike ebbsworth : we 're entirely open to that and to that sort of model . darren millar am : so , why has that never ever been done ? gareth pierce : well , of course , it would happen with subjects that stem from wales , but i think the problem is that we work with publishers and those publishers and their authors , therefore , tend to work through the medium of english . but , just to be clear , this idea of delaying an english version is something that the welsh government is eager for us to experiment with , but not with textbooks that are already late . they are within the new programme of textbooks that are contained within the grant that you mentioned of £500,000 . so , in a way , this is an experiment and the welsh government wants to look at this as one way of responding to the complaint that there are different timetables available . darren millar am : so , you 're being forced to do this by the welsh government , rather than— gareth pierce : well , we 've agreed to do it in discussion with them . darren millar am : so , are you happy with that approach ? gareth pierce : well , as long as the textbook is n't late in the first place , then yes ; it 's worth trying . there is a challenge on the eight weeks , there is a challenge in the publisher sticking to the timetable in terms of the english version first of all , but we are willing to use this as a test bed , and we 're working on two specific textbooks on this . lynne neagle am : i think the committee is struggling with this idea , so what do you understand to be the rationale behind that , then ? is it that both sets of pupils should be equally disadvantaged ? gareth pierce : well , no , in a way , it uses the same principle as we have regarding our use of digital resources . with the digital materials , the intention is that things are available in time and that they 're available in both languages at the same time . so , trying to imitate that with printed text is what we 're trying to do , but not with texts that are already late . so , if these books keep to the timetable , then they will be available in time in both languages , but that the english version has stayed before going out on the shelves . llyr gruffydd am : so , that 's to say that the english version will be completed eight weeks beforehand so that you have eight weeks for translation . mike ebbsworth : well , ultimately , i may have used the wrong words in saying that we 're holding the english back . the english version would still be in the process , just as the welsh version would be , and then they would catch up as they approach the date for publication and printing . there is an element of editing the english as well as the welsh and that would happen in that eight-week period . so , a draft form might be available , and we do ensure that our draft versions are available on our secure website as soon as possible , but then that has to be held up before publication . lynne neagle am : thank you . john . john griffiths am : just on that , chair , it 's nonetheless the case , as we 've heard , i think , and as the letter to the committee from kirsty williams has made clear , that there might be a situation where the english-language version of a textbook could be made available , but it is n't made available because there is n't a welsh-language version . and , as the chair said , is that about putting those students in wales on the same footing , and if so , how does that relate to the fact that these students , including those who could have had earlier access to the english-language version , are competing with students over the border , as we heard on the video earlier , for those precious university places ? does n't it place the english-language student using the english-language version at a potential disadvantage , compared to students over the border ? gareth pierce : i think this is a point for qualifications wales to a certain extent , but applicants for qualifications in wales are assessed as a national cohort , if truth be told , so , each piece of information we have on the standards is evaluated for that national cohort . the standards stem from the three-nation system . so , in discussion with qualifications wales , we ensure that there is no disadvantage to any cohort in wales in any subject , be that because of a textbook being unavailable or for any other reason . philip blaker : certainly , from a comparable outcomes perspective , the fewer differences that there are that are differential— . so , the idea of textbooks being available in english and welsh at different times could potentially create another dimension in terms of disparity . so , if we 're looking at it strictly speaking from a comparable outcomes perspective , it makes the awarding easier if everybody 's on a common playing field . it 's worth remembering—we provided some evidence in our original letter particularly looking at religious studies on the basis that religious studies was a subject that had been mentioned . this subject has already been awarded at as-level last year , so it has gone through an award and will go through the full a-level award this year . the comparable outcomes approach did protect those learners last year , in the absence of a textbook , and we saw stability in the results that came out of the cohort level . similarly , with other subjects that have gone through reforms , we 've seen it with the gcses that were awarded last year , ass that were awarded last year and a-levels that were awarded last year : we saw good comparability year on year . lynne neagle am : go on then , darren . is that okay , john ? darren millar am : just a very brief follow-up on that , at the cohort level , yes , you suggest that there is some evidence that students were protected , but what you do n't know and ca n't tell , because you 're not able to drill down to the individual student level , is whether children , young people , were disadvantaged as a result of their learning style being more textbook orientated than that of their peers . philip blaker : i guess we 're in a situation where there 's no evidence either way that that— darren millar am : the absence of evidence does n't mean that it did n't happen . philip blaker : no , but there is no evidence to suggest that . we have no positive evidence to suggest that . darren millar am : well , i think you 've seen plenty of evidence about the stress that it 's causing , and the concern that learners have about their outcomes . i think it would be very interesting , actually , to take some teacher assessments and expected grades and compare those to the actual grade outcomes . is that something that qualifications wales could do on a sample basis ? philip blaker : historically , that sort of evidence has been very unreliable . gareth would probably have a stronger view on that than me . predicted grades used to be provided . certainly , back in my day at an awarding body they were provided , and there tended to be a very low correlation between the predicted grade and the actual achieved grade . i do n't know if you 've got anything on that , gareth . gareth pierce : no , we agree with you that the comparisons are not that reliable , because there are so many factors . but i think , at the end of the day , what we see is , yes , i agree there is evidence of stress , but i think there 's also evidence of young people and their teachers really using the available resources and the available skills in approaching revision and preparation , and tending to do that very well . that 's the evidence that we 've got , for example , in the as religious studies last year , that the cohort did extremely well in fact . we ca n't disagree that there 's evidence of stress , but i think we can also point towards resilience and excellent approaches to drawing together the various sources that they 've got : classroom notes , revision notes , as they mentioned , and the various other materials that they referred to . lynne neagle am : okay . john . john griffiths am : coming back to the effect of the lack of resources , we heard on the video , as you 've just mentioned , gareth , that pupils were experiencing a lot of stress and anxiety , and it affected their well-being in terms of their perception that they might be disadvantaged by the lack of resources , as we discussed . we know exam time is very , very stressful—i 'm sure all of us would agree with that—in general , without any additional problems or perceptions of problems . so , with that sort of background , would you accept then that some students have been negatively affected by the lack of suitable support materials for general qualifications ? i know we 've discussed this in terms of it being difficult , perhaps , to show cause and effect , but i think most people watching that video would clearly come to the view that some students have been negatively impacted . would you accept that ? gareth pierce : i 'd have to agree . there is evidence of their concern , is n't there ? but as philip said , what we do n't have is evidence that that anxiety then has an impact on their attainment , because there are so many factors , there are so many different kinds of resources that they 've referred to—even those who want to see textbooks , they 're also talking about so many other materials that are available to them . of course , it 's also clear that they are conscientious young people who have worked hard , so you have a picture there of young people who are concerned , yes , and as you 've said , examinations are a stressful time in general , but they are also young people who are doing their level best , and usually do get the results that they have worked for . that 's the evidence that we have : the results tend to be achieved . john griffiths am : okay . coming back again to matters that we 've already discussed , but just to put to you in a fairly focused way , would you accept that it is n't fair that some pupils are not having the support material that others are having , depending on whether their particular subject is involved and the language that they 're studying through ? would you accept that that is a basic unfairness in the system as it currently exists ? gareth pierce : ideally , resources , digital accessibility and digital literacy should be available for every pupil on an equal basis . but i think perhaps if we analysed this in much detail , different individuals would be able to say , 'there are different types of unfairness . ' you referred earlier to the digital inequalities . is there an economic inequality ? there is some evidence from the teaching unions that suggests that not every school is in the same situation as each other in terms of buying the resources that are available . so , i think your question drives at a very important point : what sort of inequality could be having an impact on young people in terms of their achievement during their school time ? ideally , each one of those elements of potential inequality should be levelled . so , i do n't think i can go any further than acknowledging that any inequality is unfair , but there are so many different kinds and the textbook is not the only one , and therefore we 're not going to be able to analyse the impact of that on its own . john griffiths am : could i put to you , finally then , what estyn have said about reported delays in the production and distribution of educational resources such as textbooks , marking criteria and specimen papers , that that delay has impeded the ability of teachers to plan adequately , and that this effect on their ability to plan adequately is very likely to have had an impact on pupils ' achievement ? would you accept that ? gareth pierce : it 's interesting—they link three quite different things there , do n't they ? we 've discussed the textbooks in some detail . when they refer to sample assessments , we have to provide those within the regulatory time frame , and they have to be approved . so , in every subject there are sample assessments and marking schemes , and they are statutorily available , in a way . when they talk about exemplars , there are different interpretations of that . one request that we receive often from schools is for exemplars in terms of the work of pupils that has been assessed and marked by us . of course , they 're not available until the young people have taken those exams for the very first time . we can make them available digitally , and through various other methods . but in some subjects the demand has been so strong that we have worked with schools in order to ensure that work is produced by pupils before that first examination , is marked by us , and is then made available . so , we can respond to that demand when it arises . i would like to have a conversation with estyn , indeed , to interpret on a more detailed level some of the things that they refer to . emyr george : may i offer a comment on that quote from estyn ? they talk about a reduction in attainment and that , to some extent , brings us back to the point in terms of the comparable outcomes method that we 're talking about . that method is based on research and evidence that says that in a period of change to an exam or qualification , we know that performance in an exam can fall , and that is due to a number of different factors . teachers are n't as familiar with the specification and the requirements of the exam . there are fewer past assessment resources available ; there are n't any past papers , for example . certainly , knowing that you 're the first to sit that exam perhaps raises your concerns about that examination , and examinations are a matter of concern already . it 's very difficult , if not impossible , to differentiate between those factors , but what we know on the whole is that they come together to have an impact on pupils ' performance in an exam , and that 's why , when it comes to awarding qualifications for the first time and looking at the grades , we look very carefully at what that the mark means in terms of the grade in order to try as best as we can , on the level of the whole national cohort , to eliminate as much unfairness as possible because they are the first cohort to sit the exam . gareth pierce : could i just make a brief comment on the sample assessments ? now , interestingly , when the english , welsh , maths , and maths and numeracy gcses were new , the welsh government were very eager that we invest in more sample assessment materials . we had to produce one for the regulator , but they wanted to see us produce far more , and we did that . but there are risks inherent in that , too . if we create more and more sample assessments , then does that create more risk of teaching to the test ? and every time we produce one of these , of course , we are using robust assessment ideas , and they 're out there to be used for test purposes . so , we need to be careful that we do n't weaken the real assessment by providing too many of the examiners ' good ideas in the sample material . so , it 's an interesting theme , but it would be interesting to have a further conversation with estyn on that . philip blaker : i just wanted to say , looking towards— . reforms always throw up issues like this . it 's almost an inevitability of any change that there will be impact . i think what we need to do is we need to think about the future reforms , particularly knowing that we 've got some on the radar already , and to think about what this paradigm is and how we can isolate some of these factors in the future . so , if we look at resources and if we look particularly at textbooks as being a curriculum resource , rather than a qualification resource , i think we can change the timeline to which some of those materials are produced . so , going back to when i studied my a-levels in the 1980s , there was this common body of knowledge that was an a-level textbook in biology that was n't focused around an individual awarding body . when we talked to unions about this on monday , they said , 'yes , when we used to teach many years ago , there were curriculum resources like that , and then when a particular topic or a particular area of content dropped out of the qualification , we either did or did n't teach it according to whether it was in the curriculum ' . that 's a little bit worrying by virtue of the fact there might have been a component of that subject that did n't get taught because it was no longer in the text , despite the fact that it was in the common body of knowledge . but i think if we can shift this paradigm—and i would really like to a shift in the paradigm for resources particularly , away from the focus on the qualification and into more of a focus on the curriculum—then that provides an opportunity for , i would suggest , a much healthier model in the future . there are various ways of doing that . in the united states , for example , there are some states within the united states that produce a state textbook . now , that can have issues , particularly if it 's politically orientated—so , if politicians are seen to have a strong influence in the content that 's taught . but if there is independence in that state model , then i think that can be quite strong model . equally , if you look at somewhere like hong kong , they 've actually tried to de-emphasise textbooks . so , hong kong , which is a very high-performing jurisdiction , is trying to move away from that model in the future . gareth pierce : could i just add very , very briefly— lynne neagle am : very briefly , because i want to bring hefin in . gareth pierce : i know that , in our letter to you , we emphasised that this is not just to do with the body of knowledge . the assessment objectives have shifted in many subjects towards analysis and evaluation . so , therefore , we really do need resources that support that way of working , and i 'm sure that lots of the young people we 've heard from—what they 're really doing in their revision is actually not just studying the content , but thinking about how they respond analytically and evaluatively . in fact , an interesting question for us as an awarding body to debate with the qualifications regulator , maybe , is whether some of the content should actually be able to be taken into the assessment hall . do young people need to remember all these terms and their precise definitions , sometimes in both languages if they 've learnt it in that way ? should n't some of the reference material be more and more available in the assessment arena ? and then you are really getting towards analysis and interpretation and evaluation . lynne neagle am : thank you . hefin . hefin david am : i want to welcome these particular comments , because having come from a higher education background , what i 've tried to deliver in my courses are textbook-free modules , where you 're relying on academic journal articles and you 're piecing together the story yourself , based on the curriculum you develop yourself . so , curriculum-focused resources are very welcome . i fear that students who are nurtured on a textbook diet , when they go to university , they are not expected to repeat what 's in the textbook ; they 're expected to do exactly as gareth says and analyse and combine information into a discursive argument . so , therefore , i 'm interested to know how you 've worked with higher education to develop that approach . i also welcome what you 've just said too . lynne neagle am : can i ask for brief answers , please ? gareth pierce : yes , well some of the people who provide ideas into our digital resources certainly are either teachers who are very well aware of that progression to he and therefore what their learners want or , in some cases , they are he people themselves . we do draw on a body of expertise , and we are more than willing to emphasise the importance of that approach to the support resources we provide . hefin david am : i think the difficulty and the difference is that , at he level , the kind of journal articles that are available are probably not consumable at gcse level . that 's part of the problem you have with that approach . gareth pierce : yes . and i think , interestingly—i know we 've pointed towards some of our religious studies resources as examples—i think some of the websites we point to are quite ambitious . they would be described as scholarly , and i think some of the young people on the video made that point , did n't they—that they need to engage with that material to understand some themes ? but we need to assist them in doing so . we need to almost make those scholarly items that are worth including in their curriculum accessible and user friendly for them at their point of learning . lynne neagle am : philip . philip blaker : it was just one point . we recently published a report on the welsh baccalaureate and skills challenge certificate , and i think it 's relevant to pull in at this point that the independent study that pupils would be expected to do through the skills challenge certificate in doing their project work is really designed to try and draw out some of those skills that would be relevant in higher education . through the reforms that we are starting to think about for the skills challenge certificate , there 's a real opportunity to start honing some of those skills , particularly at the advanced level bacc , to make people really he-ready so that they 're better able to engage with that different style of learning . so , i think there 's a huge opportunity that should n't be diminished within the advanced welsh bacc . lynne neagle am : thank you . last questions from mark then . mark reckless am : gareth , can i just put to you— ? on the estyn criticism , i think you 've answered one aspect of their criticism that wjec did not make as many sample assessment materials available as schools would have liked early on in the reform process , and i understand your position there , but they went on and said , 'at times the sample assessment materials were provided with incorrect mark schemes ' and also , 'it would be helpful if the wjec ensure that all necessary resources were made available before the start date of each qualification . ' do you have a response to those points ? gareth pierce : again , probably , i 'd like a conversation with them about any problems with the specimen assessments and their mark schemes , because if they are the statutory regulatory ones they would have gone through philip 's team as well or his welsh government predecessors as regulators , depending on which qualifications they were . obviously , we need to be spot-on with those . very occasionally , somebody will identify an error , and obviously we then correct them , because these are available digitally online . so , if there is a problem , we want to hear about it and then we can correct it . but , yes , i agree with their fundamental premise , that ideally the whole package of resources should be available before teaching starts , including , as we mentioned earlier , so we can draw on that set of resources in the events we run as wjec free of charge for teachers leading up to the first teaching . we need that information ourselves as well so we can talk about the use of these valuable resources in an appropriate pedagogical context in that preparatory year . so , the ideal is that everything is there 12 months ahead . mark reckless am : so , what mechanism do you have for picking up on this type of criticisms from estyn and having that conversation with them ? has that not happened ? gareth pierce : we have met with estyn a couple of times recently , actually—once when they were beginning their review of the key stage 4 qualifications that had been in place for two years and a bit , and also when they were planning a review of some of the a-level work . because we do have regular meetings with them , we will have an opportunity to explore their comments here i 'm sure . mark reckless am : looking at the structure and the relationship between qualifications wales and the wjec— . i understand in the model in england—you 've got ofqual , the regulator , and you have various competing exam boards , some i think with for-profit motivation . we do n't have that in wales ; there is a sole regulator and a single , dominant examination board . does that mean that there 's significant overlap and potentially cost duplication between the work of the two bodies , particularly given wjec is a charity and seems to have many of the same objectives as you in qualifications wales have ? philip blaker : the roles are very distinct , so i 'd tell you there's no overlap . what we try and do is try and make sure that there 's a good connection between the work that we do . wjec has very clear responsibilities around the delivery of qualifications . we have a role in monitoring to ensure that those qualifications are delivered securely and fairly . i would say a strength of the welsh model is that there is an independent regulator and a single awarding body largely , because much of the work that ofqual would need to do in terms of its maintenance of standards is about ensuring that the competition between awarding bodies does n't lead to what 's been termed in the past as a race to the bottom in terms of standards . now , the opportunity that we have in wales is , where we have a single awarding body , we can have a close and good working relationship with wjec , but guarding very strongly to make sure that we keep that regulatory distance to make sure that we preserve our role as the regulator and look at wjec as one of our regulated bodies . gareth pierce : can i make a general point ? perhaps the important opportunity in wales is to look anew at how national and regional organisations , such as the consortia , can collaborate to make a success of the broad range of resources and cpd that will be required to support the new curriculum , and also the next set of qualifications that will be reformed . we 've referred to many organisations today , but there are others . the welsh books council , for example , is part of this discussion . the learned society of wales is a player that wants to introduce ideas into the welsh dimension of the curriculum . there was mention of the he sector earlier . teachers ' associations have very specific comments to make on some of these areas . there is a great opportunity for us to come together and to have a national approach . there will be a need for some financial resource from the welsh government—yes , certainly—and the wjec can provide some resources , but i think we all want to collaborate in order to ensure the success of the next round of resources . mark reckless am : but does n't that national approach and collaboration preclude the model that philip was talking about earlier , where we had textbooks based on the curriculum , and there 's that core , but that was separate from what the exam body decided to do and the textbook was n't there for the particular exam approach ? if you have a single , dominant exam board , and you have a welsh curriculum that 's developed with that board , how do you then have this separation between textbook and exam ? philip blaker : so , if we look at qualification , a qualification should be based on the curriculum that 's being offered , because learning should be based around the curriculum , and the role of the qualification is to measure attainment against knowledge of that curriculum—knowledge , skills and understanding , the dispositions that that curriculum is trying to develop . so , i think there are two very distinct things . now , of course , what will inevitably happen is once the curriculum is known and developed , there will be a level of detail that comes across from what the qualification is looking for . i think what we 're trying to say is , from an educational perspective , what we 'd like to see is a broader focus on the curriculum and less of a narrow focus on the qualification and some of the problems that that can drive , so that , if a learner is well-versed in the curriculum and has been taught well and has acquired the knowledge , skills and dispositions that the curriculum is trying to create , they should succeed in the qualification . mark reckless am : and you suggested earlier that , if need be , the qualification could be pushed back a year , but not the curriculum . does that mean that it would be possible to teach the new curriculum while keeping the old qualification ? philip blaker : it would be possible . mark reckless am : but satisfactory ? philip blaker : because , if we 're looking at qualifications predominantly being 14 to 16 , what professor donaldson said at the very beginning , with 'successful futures ' , was , actually , if the curriculum is preparing people better for that qualification stage , so that they 're better versed as learners and better able to perform in those qualifications and we see a rise of attainment— . ideally , you 'd be in a position where you 've got gcses that have been reformed to marry up to any change , but i do n't see there being a huge problem in itself of a delay if we think that is the right thing to do . clearly , we consider that to be a sub-optimal thing . we would much rather be in a position of having reforms , but , equally , i 'd want to see any reforms delivered safely , and i would n't want to compromise fairness and safety of delivery of those qualifications on the basis of a timeline . but i think all too often the case is that a timeline dominates over doing what is the right thing and i think as we get further into this we 'll have to really assess and keep a grip of what 's the right thing to do . mark reckless am : thank you . lynne neagle am : very briefly , darren . darren millar am : just on this issue of shaping the curriculum and making sure that we 've got textbooks that can be used to support the delivery of the curriculum— . so , obviously , the wjec 's interested in the examinations and the qualifications . that 's your role as well in terms of qualifications wales . so , who should be responsible for developing these curriculum resources ? philip blaker : i think , for a new model , that needs to be determined . welsh government has a role in curriculum at the moment . they have responsibility for curriclum and they 've already started work with the seminar last year , and then drawing people together now to look at a new model for the future . i think we need to evolve that approach , and i think welsh government taking a lead on some of this thinking about how things might be prepared for the future is probably a good position to be in at the moment . darren millar am : are there any other models that you can point us to in terms of how these things are done elsewhere ? philip blaker : yes , there are models where you can have— . for example , in northern ireland , you have the regulator , the awarding body and the curriculum body all under one roof . so , you can have a position where everything is tied together as it is in northern ireland with the council for the curriculum , examinations and assessment . equally , if you look at somewhere like hong kong , you have very distinct bodies that are looking after each individual component . so , there are lots of different models that can be developed . but , of course , in wales , and also previously in england , the qualifications regulator has also had a responsibility for curriculum . so , there has been that model in the past in wales . gareth pierce : just very briefly . lynne neagle am : really quickly , please . gareth pierce : just one thing very briefly , in terms of the wjec . i mentioned earlier that , in the past , the wjec has produced a fair few resources in collaboration with publishers in key stage 3 and even at primary stages . certainly , key stage 3 is closely linked to gcse , and , therefore , if the wjec continues to be a player—as i hope it will—in the area of resources for gcse and a-level , then the wjec is also well positioned in terms of our investment in editing , translating and the use of technology to contribute to key stage 3 most certainly and perhaps even the primary stages . so , i 'm sure that the wjec would want to offer itself as a national organisation that wants to contribute as best we can in this area . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you very much . well , we 're out of time , so can i thank you very much for attending this morning and for answering all our questions ? i think it 's been a very useful and informative session . as usual , you 'll be sent a transcript to check for accuracy , following the meeting . but thank you very much , again , for your attendance . gareth pierce : thank you very much . </s>
<s> summarize the role of qualification wales , according to philip blaker . </s> lynne neagle am : thank you , darren . so , item 2 , then , today is our first session on the provision of textbooks and learning resources for pupils , which is a video of interviews with young people and teachers . the committee team has been out to take video evidence around wales , and we 're now going to watch the results of that on the screen . okay . well , i 'm sure that the committee would want me to place on record our thanks to the young people and the teachers who took part in that very helpful and informative video . we 'll move on now then to our evidence session , and i 'm very pleased to welcome gareth pierce , chief executive of the wjec , mike ebbsworth , assistant director educational support , wjec , philip blaker , chief executive of qualifications wales , and emyr george , associate director general qualifications at qualifications wales . so , thank you all of you for attending and thank you for the papers that you provided in advance as well . if you 're happy , we 'll go straight into questions now , and if i can just start by asking you to outline what you see as your role in ensuring that students and teachers in wales have the resources that they need to pass general qualifications and what you think the role of commercial publishers and welsh government is . philip blaker : shall i start ? so , qualifications wales is the regulator of the awarding bodies , so we regulate awarding bodies . our powers are structured around the regulating of awarding bodies . we do n't regulate commercial publishers nor the provision of textbooks within that . in regulating the awarding body , our primary focus is also on the design of the qualifications and then the delivery of the assessment . so , it 's much more around the assessment side than teaching resources . that said , when we are going through the design of the qualifications , we go through an approval process , so we develop approval criteria and we ask wjec to submit their specifications against those approval criteria and sample assessment materials as well . so , our focus is very much on making sure that teachers are able , through the sample assessment materials and the specifications , to have a good understanding of what is going to be expected of them in the examinations and of their pupils in the examinations . so , that 's setting out the knowledge , skills and understandings that will be assessed by wjec when those exams are sat . we have in the past pulled together groups of people to look at issues like resources . so , during the last round of approvals , we pulled together interested parties in welsh government , regional consortia and wjec to look at resources that would be available with a view to facilitating the discussion about who would be best placed to fill the gaps where there may be perceived to be gaps in resources . our other primary role is in maintaining standards . so , as the regulator of qualifications , what we want to do is we want to make that the awards of qualifications—so , the grades that people get—are fair . one of the things we do is set out the way in which the awarding bodies will set grades—so , the awarding process , the methods that will be used—and then we monitor wjec's award of grades against those processes . during a period of change , we prescribe the use of comparable outcomes as the primary approach , largely because comparable outcomes are designed for circumstances like this , where there 's a change in a specification particularly , because there are any number of reasons , including resources , why performance may be different from one year to the next , but comparable outcomes is there to ensure that , all things being equal , if the cohorts have the same ability , the same grade should be awarded from one year to the next . we do recognise that there have been delays in textbooks . much of that has been related to the timelines that we 've all had to deliver new specifications against , which have been far from ideal for everybody involved . we think that particularly our role moving forward will be looking at the timelines for reforms that will be necessary for the new curriculum to make sure that this situation is n't repeated and that there is sufficient time in future reforms to allow for greater system readiness . in terms of the roles of others , welsh government have a role at the moment in terms of grant funding of translation of materials into welsh medium . and there is , through the common model at the moment—and this is a model that is common between england and wales—a reliance on commercial publishers to provide textbooks . now , that 's something that probably needs to be looked at in the future in terms of potential different models for how that might be achieved and also , potentially , around a paradigm shift in what 's expected of those materials . so , i think that sets out qualification wales 's position in particular . lynne neagle am : thank you . gareth . </s>
<s> what did gareth pierce think of the translation of materials between the two languages ? </s> lynne neagle am : thank you . we heard in the video that teachers are spending a lot of their time actually translating materials . what is your view on that as a good use of teachers ' time in wales ? gareth pierce : i think the question of translation is an interesting one . there was talk about pupils translating and teachers translating . i think perhaps we need to understand what causes the need for that because , as i mentioned earlier , there are so many resources available digitally in both languages at the same time . perhaps an interesting question is : is that source useful for teachers , being able to draw resources from two sources ? another interesting question , i think , is— . the welsh language , of course , is a language that is used in an educational context , but we are in a big world that 's an english language world . i 'm very aware that many of the websites we refer to in our resources and many of the case studies , as was mentioned in that video—they are available in english only . therefore , i think another interesting question is : can we discover what those additional resources are that are worth translating ? and , certainly , it would be very unfortunate if there were a dozen welsh-medium schools , for example , translating material from the same website independently of each other . if there are a few websites , or a few case studies , in this big external digital world that are worth translating , should n't we able to source those early ? because i do n't think it 's a good use of teachers ' time . but i also think that the use of both languages is an interesting one . what is the vision in terms of teaching in a welsh-medium class , in particular , perhaps , in the a-level classes ? i 'm sure that some teachers feel that there is a way of enriching the teaching by referring to terms in both languages , as well as explaining those terms in their own language . but the impression i got from the video was that there was quite a lot of mechanical translating happening , and perhaps there is a need to understand more of the context . lynne neagle am : llyr on this . llyr gruffydd am : just to pick up on your point on the additional materials , whose role would it be to asses this or to take that overview , and then to respond to the demand ? gareth pierce : mike , in the wjec , has conversations about resources in the team he 's part of . </s>
<s> why did darren millar am disagree about wjec 's approaches to textbooks ? </s> darren millar am : this is a huge mess , is n't it ? it 's a huge mess , which is causing lots of pressure and extra work for teachers , lots of pressure and extra work for learners , and is affecting the well-being of students , at a time when they need to be mentally fit , in order to go through the general stress that learners face when they have exams coming up . we know that the problems are not confined to welsh-medium resources ; they 're also being experienced in english language resources as well , particularly in terms of the availability of textbooks . you 've both mentioned—both of your organisations have mentioned that there needs to be some sort of common core of resources available for learners and teachers , and i would agree with you on that front . but is n't a textbook a pretty basic element of anybody 's toolkit for supporting a child getting through the information that they need to learn , and swot up on , in advance of exams ? gareth pierce : i think that the evidence is that different learners see their requirements differently . and i agree that a textbook is part of the picture that should be available . but i think the evidence also shows that not every young person will use them ; perhaps the teacher uses them . there is an emphasis , for example , from one pupil there , on that traditional model of revision , namely class notes and his own revision notes , but that he personally also wanted a textbook . so , certainly , the content of a textbook is going to be important , and that that 's available in some form or other . it was very interesting to know , for example , that when he was describing the traditional model of revision , he felt that he 'd had quite a lot of the content of the textbook through the classroom notes . much of that digital content , of course , corresponds to the content areas of a textbook , but it 's just in a different form . but , in general , there should be a textbook . and some of our frustration as well is that the timetables of some individual publishers do n't always get us to the point where there is a textbook available in time . that does n't happen so often in english medium , but we know about that gap in time in the welsh provision . darren millar am : well , it 's happened fairly regularly in the english-medium textbook world , has n't it ? my daughter—she featured in that video—has got her rs qualifications coming up , and she only had a textbook over the easter period . i mean , it's completely unacceptable . and many others in that video are also being affected . you mentioned digital resources ; not everybody 's got access to digital resources in their own homes , even , in wales . so , are n't we giving a significant disadvantage to those learners who might need the traditional 'swotting up from a textbook ' method of revision and benefit from that ? mike ebbsworth : we do ensure that those digital resources include things that the teachers can also print . most of these are resources for teachers so that the teachers can adapt them for their own use , to suit the learners who are in front of them at any given time . but certainly there are materials there . if there are activities , then those activities can be printed off and handed to pupils so that they can take them home . so , i would be sceptical about that comment . we are thinking of the totality , ultimately . gareth pierce : i think you 're right that the availability of technology is an important part of this big picture . the young people talk about websites and blogs , and we 're talking about digital resources , so being able to reach those resources , i think , is vital in wales . it 's interesting to note two contradictory remarks from the teaching associations in the letters . one praises what 's available digitally , whereas another teaching organisation sees this as more work for teachers . as mike said , we've created those resources that can be adapted . one teaching organisation says that it just creates more work , while another organisation says that the digital resource is something that's very valuable . of course , the headteacher at the end was praising the fact that , in a situation of crisis or unacceptable timetables , we have succeeded in creating some resources that will be in the textbook later , but available digitally at an early stage . but i agree with your core comment that technology is vital , and access to that , and also the content of a textbook in some form is vital as well . darren millar am : mr blaker , you would agree that a textbook should be an essential core piece of the resource pack available for each qualification . philip blaker : i think we would n't want to underplay the desirability of textbooks , recognising that different learners have different learning styles and may look to different resources . i think what i 'd like to raise is a wider concern about textbooks in their current model , which is very much around the fact that every time there 's a change in a specification , there 's a new textbook , which is designed around that specification and is endorsed by an awarding body , which is a nice model for a publisher , because every time there 's a change , there 's an opportunity for a new textbook . there are two concerns that i 'd like to raise on that . first , the focus on teaching and learning . ofsted and also estyn have raised concerns about the focus in teaching on teaching to the test as a common concern in both nations . i have a concern that having a textbook that is endorsed by the awarding body and is designed specifically around that specification may lead to some of that tendency . and also , there 's the sustainability of the model . we know that we 're about to go into another round of reforms associated with the curriculum change . that 's going to lead to another round of textbooks that may need to be focused on qualifications . i think i 'd much rather see that textbooks are seen as a curriculum resource that are broader than , perhaps , the model of endorsement and the current model of publication suggest . darren millar am : so , you do n't think that a textbook for each subject should be a core resource for pupils who are learning in advance of examinations . emyr george : i 'd just like to pick you up on that . i think a textbook for each subject is absolutely an essential part of the broad range of resources that you 'd want to see available for people to choose what they prefer , but on a subject , perhaps , rather than a specific specification , because i think there 's a tendency to conflate the two , and much of the underlying content that is assessed in one specification , or a new updated specification , will remain unchanged . it is true that there may be a different focus or emphasis , or a different style of questioning , but that can be picked up more nimbly through supplementary digital resources , for example , which can highlight that change , particularly to a teacher , so that they can shape their lesson planning around that . what we are looking at here are reformed gcses and reformed a-levels in subjects that are well-established , traditional subjects , and so whilst it is not necessarily the ideal , i think it's important to remember that there is already a good deal of pre-existing resources , including textbooks , out there in schools already . we 're not for a moment saying that that is the situation that we would want everybody to be in . i think it might be preferable if the textbook was perfectly bespoke to the course and did n't contain any extraneous material , but that perhaps is an ideal picture and i think we do need to remember that there are already many resources out there that are available to teachers and to students . darren millar am : but of course , unlike their peers in perhaps other parts of the uk , we have teachers who are having to go meticulously through some of these other resources that might be available to determine whether they 're appropriate for use in the classroom , given that the specification is different in terms of the new qualifications . can i just ask you about the disadvantage that some learners might face as a result of the lack of textbooks ? mr blaker , i note that you sought to reassure the committee in some of your opening remarks about the fact that equivalent outcomes are what you aim to achieve in discussion with the wjec in terms of the outcome of assessments , and i think that that 's a very positive thing . but , how do you differentiate between the different learning styles of individual students who are in that cohort to ensure that the disadvantage that one faces because they 're somebody who relies particularly heavily on textbook-type learning , traditional sort of swotting up for examinations , versus someone who is much more digitally aware and able to use digital resources— ? how do you make sure that it 's fair to the cohort as a whole , while still enabling some of these individuals for whom textbooks are important not to face disadvantage within that cohort ? philip blaker : the systems that are in place are very much around making sure that awarding is fair across the whole cohort . it 's very difficult—in fact , it would be impossible—to unpick all of the different factors that might affect performance , because you could well have a textbook that 's been available for some time , it may be somebody 's preferred leaning style to use a textbook , but did they use that textbook effectively ? you know , did they open it in revision or did they not open it in revision ? so , there are so many different factors that can affect individual performance . i think it 's impossible to unpick a particular aspect like the availability of resources . motivation would be one thing , an individual learner 's motivation in the subject . the biggest input would be the quality of teaching . i think evidence has been provided to you by the regional consortia , which we saw yesterday . they particularly wanted to stress this point i think ; that the quality of teaching is probably the most dominant and the most important factor in relation to a learner 's ultimate performance in the examination . darren millar am : i understand that , but you also understand that someone who does n't have the resources that they feel are best suited to them face some element of a greater disadvantage than others for whom , perhaps , textbooks are less important . gareth pierce : i think also , perhaps , related to that , it is important to mention digital literacy here . every young person in wales , i would hope , taking gcse or a-level , should have that digital literacy in order to source the valuable materials available—that they should have those skills . then , they have the choice whether they go down the digital route , or do they do as mike suggested—much of the digital material can be printed—or do they then turn to textbooks , in the hope that those would be available ? that would then allow for a pupil 's personal learning choice to be reflected . it 's also important for teachers to confirm that their ways of teaching do support these alternative approaches taken by pupils . not every pupil will choose to learn or revise in exactly the same way . so , the flexibility for the pupil is very important , i think . darren millar am : i understand that , but i 've got people in my constituency who have n't even got a broadband link at home , so there 's a digital disadvantage as well . can i just ask you about the reason why this has taking so long to sort out ? it was back in 2015 that concerns were first raised about the availability of textbooks in both english and welsh for the new qualifications . we 're three years on , what on earth has been happening in the interim and why is it taking so long ? if you 've got these resources digitally , why ca n't they just be compounded into textbooks pretty straightforwardly ? gareth pierce : i think the main reason for that is that there are three series of reforms of qualifications that have happened . there were some in 2015 , other subjects in 2016 , and other subjects in 2017 . those three cycles of reform have all suffered from the short timetable that was between approving a qualification and publishers being able to start the work . perhaps an interesting comparison would be a subject being taught for the first time in 2015—where that subject has reached now in terms of resources . i would hope that each one of those subjects have more available now in terms of resources , and therefore we are adding each year—not textbooks but digital resources . there are more past papers available , of course . we are working on sample work at the request of teachers . so , every subject is moving on over a period of time of five to six years while that specification is being studied . but those same difficulties have , unfortunately , affected 2015 subjects and 2017 subjects , and that 's why we 're discussing the same thing in 2018 . </s>
<s> how did the wjec tackle the concerns raised by darren millar am ? </s> gareth pierce : i think that the evidence is that different learners see their requirements differently . and i agree that a textbook is part of the picture that should be available . but i think the evidence also shows that not every young person will use them ; perhaps the teacher uses them . there is an emphasis , for example , from one pupil there , on that traditional model of revision , namely class notes and his own revision notes , but that he personally also wanted a textbook . so , certainly , the content of a textbook is going to be important , and that that 's available in some form or other . it was very interesting to know , for example , that when he was describing the traditional model of revision , he felt that he 'd had quite a lot of the content of the textbook through the classroom notes . much of that digital content , of course , corresponds to the content areas of a textbook , but it 's just in a different form . but , in general , there should be a textbook . and some of our frustration as well is that the timetables of some individual publishers do n't always get us to the point where there is a textbook available in time . that does n't happen so often in english medium , but we know about that gap in time in the welsh provision . darren millar am : well , it 's happened fairly regularly in the english-medium textbook world , has n't it ? my daughter—she featured in that video—has got her rs qualifications coming up , and she only had a textbook over the easter period . i mean , it's completely unacceptable . and many others in that video are also being affected . you mentioned digital resources ; not everybody 's got access to digital resources in their own homes , even , in wales . so , are n't we giving a significant disadvantage to those learners who might need the traditional 'swotting up from a textbook ' method of revision and benefit from that ? mike ebbsworth : we do ensure that those digital resources include things that the teachers can also print . most of these are resources for teachers so that the teachers can adapt them for their own use , to suit the learners who are in front of them at any given time . but certainly there are materials there . if there are activities , then those activities can be printed off and handed to pupils so that they can take them home . so , i would be sceptical about that comment . we are thinking of the totality , ultimately . gareth pierce : i think you 're right that the availability of technology is an important part of this big picture . the young people talk about websites and blogs , and we 're talking about digital resources , so being able to reach those resources , i think , is vital in wales . it 's interesting to note two contradictory remarks from the teaching associations in the letters . one praises what 's available digitally , whereas another teaching organisation sees this as more work for teachers . as mike said , we've created those resources that can be adapted . one teaching organisation says that it just creates more work , while another organisation says that the digital resource is something that's very valuable . of course , the headteacher at the end was praising the fact that , in a situation of crisis or unacceptable timetables , we have succeeded in creating some resources that will be in the textbook later , but available digitally at an early stage . but i agree with your core comment that technology is vital , and access to that , and also the content of a textbook in some form is vital as well . darren millar am : mr blaker , you would agree that a textbook should be an essential core piece of the resource pack available for each qualification . philip blaker : i think we would n't want to underplay the desirability of textbooks , recognising that different learners have different learning styles and may look to different resources . i think what i 'd like to raise is a wider concern about textbooks in their current model , which is very much around the fact that every time there 's a change in a specification , there 's a new textbook , which is designed around that specification and is endorsed by an awarding body , which is a nice model for a publisher , because every time there 's a change , there 's an opportunity for a new textbook . there are two concerns that i 'd like to raise on that . first , the focus on teaching and learning . ofsted and also estyn have raised concerns about the focus in teaching on teaching to the test as a common concern in both nations . i have a concern that having a textbook that is endorsed by the awarding body and is designed specifically around that specification may lead to some of that tendency . and also , there 's the sustainability of the model . we know that we 're about to go into another round of reforms associated with the curriculum change . that 's going to lead to another round of textbooks that may need to be focused on qualifications . i think i 'd much rather see that textbooks are seen as a curriculum resource that are broader than , perhaps , the model of endorsement and the current model of publication suggest . darren millar am : so , you do n't think that a textbook for each subject should be a core resource for pupils who are learning in advance of examinations . emyr george : i 'd just like to pick you up on that . i think a textbook for each subject is absolutely an essential part of the broad range of resources that you 'd want to see available for people to choose what they prefer , but on a subject , perhaps , rather than a specific specification , because i think there 's a tendency to conflate the two , and much of the underlying content that is assessed in one specification , or a new updated specification , will remain unchanged . it is true that there may be a different focus or emphasis , or a different style of questioning , but that can be picked up more nimbly through supplementary digital resources , for example , which can highlight that change , particularly to a teacher , so that they can shape their lesson planning around that . what we are looking at here are reformed gcses and reformed a-levels in subjects that are well-established , traditional subjects , and so whilst it is not necessarily the ideal , i think it's important to remember that there is already a good deal of pre-existing resources , including textbooks , out there in schools already . we 're not for a moment saying that that is the situation that we would want everybody to be in . i think it might be preferable if the textbook was perfectly bespoke to the course and did n't contain any extraneous material , but that perhaps is an ideal picture and i think we do need to remember that there are already many resources out there that are available to teachers and to students . darren millar am : but of course , unlike their peers in perhaps other parts of the uk , we have teachers who are having to go meticulously through some of these other resources that might be available to determine whether they 're appropriate for use in the classroom , given that the specification is different in terms of the new qualifications . can i just ask you about the disadvantage that some learners might face as a result of the lack of textbooks ? mr blaker , i note that you sought to reassure the committee in some of your opening remarks about the fact that equivalent outcomes are what you aim to achieve in discussion with the wjec in terms of the outcome of assessments , and i think that that 's a very positive thing . but , how do you differentiate between the different learning styles of individual students who are in that cohort to ensure that the disadvantage that one faces because they 're somebody who relies particularly heavily on textbook-type learning , traditional sort of swotting up for examinations , versus someone who is much more digitally aware and able to use digital resources— ? how do you make sure that it 's fair to the cohort as a whole , while still enabling some of these individuals for whom textbooks are important not to face disadvantage within that cohort ? philip blaker : the systems that are in place are very much around making sure that awarding is fair across the whole cohort . it 's very difficult—in fact , it would be impossible—to unpick all of the different factors that might affect performance , because you could well have a textbook that 's been available for some time , it may be somebody 's preferred leaning style to use a textbook , but did they use that textbook effectively ? you know , did they open it in revision or did they not open it in revision ? so , there are so many different factors that can affect individual performance . i think it 's impossible to unpick a particular aspect like the availability of resources . motivation would be one thing , an individual learner 's motivation in the subject . the biggest input would be the quality of teaching . i think evidence has been provided to you by the regional consortia , which we saw yesterday . they particularly wanted to stress this point i think ; that the quality of teaching is probably the most dominant and the most important factor in relation to a learner 's ultimate performance in the examination . darren millar am : i understand that , but you also understand that someone who does n't have the resources that they feel are best suited to them face some element of a greater disadvantage than others for whom , perhaps , textbooks are less important . gareth pierce : i think also , perhaps , related to that , it is important to mention digital literacy here . every young person in wales , i would hope , taking gcse or a-level , should have that digital literacy in order to source the valuable materials available—that they should have those skills . then , they have the choice whether they go down the digital route , or do they do as mike suggested—much of the digital material can be printed—or do they then turn to textbooks , in the hope that those would be available ? that would then allow for a pupil 's personal learning choice to be reflected . it 's also important for teachers to confirm that their ways of teaching do support these alternative approaches taken by pupils . not every pupil will choose to learn or revise in exactly the same way . so , the flexibility for the pupil is very important , i think . darren millar am : i understand that , but i 've got people in my constituency who have n't even got a broadband link at home , so there 's a digital disadvantage as well . can i just ask you about the reason why this has taking so long to sort out ? it was back in 2015 that concerns were first raised about the availability of textbooks in both english and welsh for the new qualifications . we 're three years on , what on earth has been happening in the interim and why is it taking so long ? if you 've got these resources digitally , why ca n't they just be compounded into textbooks pretty straightforwardly ? gareth pierce : i think the main reason for that is that there are three series of reforms of qualifications that have happened . there were some in 2015 , other subjects in 2016 , and other subjects in 2017 . those three cycles of reform have all suffered from the short timetable that was between approving a qualification and publishers being able to start the work . perhaps an interesting comparison would be a subject being taught for the first time in 2015—where that subject has reached now in terms of resources . i would hope that each one of those subjects have more available now in terms of resources , and therefore we are adding each year—not textbooks but digital resources . there are more past papers available , of course . we are working on sample work at the request of teachers . so , every subject is moving on over a period of time of five to six years while that specification is being studied . but those same difficulties have , unfortunately , affected 2015 subjects and 2017 subjects , and that 's why we 're discussing the same thing in 2018 . </s>
<s> what did gareth pierce talk about the subsidy in developing materials bilingually ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : would that market be viable without any sort of subsidy , if it were to develop bilingually ? or do we have to accept that they have to have an element of public subsidy ? </s>
<s> what was the decision of wjec to reduce the delay between materials having an english version and a welsh version ? </s>  </s>
<s> why was the council disagree about wjec 's decision to delay the welsh/english version ? </s> darren millar am : i just want to ask about this eight-week delay . so , you ’ re telling us , mr ebbsworth , that the wjec has agreed with hodder and illuminate that , in future , even if an english textbook is available for publication , and it ’ s already late , you will further delay the availability of that textbook so that it can be published on the same day as the welsh-medium textbook ? mike ebbsworth : we can only work on those books that are in the process of being developed . naturally , if something is late in english , then that timetable would be affected in terms of a decision that will ultimately have to be taken . but that 's the hope : that when new textbooks are produced in english and authored in english , we would look at that eight-week period as a turnaround . darren millar am : i understand the point that you made earlier about the chapter-by-chapter approach , which seems much more equitable . but to suggest that you will delay books that could be available for students and could be available for teachers to be able to access by two months because you have n't got the systems in place to be able to produce them on the same day , seems to be wholly inappropriate . can i ask , also , why on earth it is n't possible to produce welsh-medium textbooks first and then translate them to english on occasions ? mike ebbsworth : we 're entirely open to that and to that sort of model . darren millar am : so , why has that never ever been done ? gareth pierce : well , of course , it would happen with subjects that stem from wales , but i think the problem is that we work with publishers and those publishers and their authors , therefore , tend to work through the medium of english . but , just to be clear , this idea of delaying an english version is something that the welsh government is eager for us to experiment with , but not with textbooks that are already late . they are within the new programme of textbooks that are contained within the grant that you mentioned of £500,000 . so , in a way , this is an experiment and the welsh government wants to look at this as one way of responding to the complaint that there are different timetables available . darren millar am : so , you 're being forced to do this by the welsh government , rather than— gareth pierce : well , we 've agreed to do it in discussion with them . darren millar am : so , are you happy with that approach ? gareth pierce : well , as long as the textbook is n't late in the first place , then yes ; it 's worth trying . there is a challenge on the eight weeks , there is a challenge in the publisher sticking to the timetable in terms of the english version first of all , but we are willing to use this as a test bed , and we 're working on two specific textbooks on this . lynne neagle am : i think the committee is struggling with this idea , so what do you understand to be the rationale behind that , then ? is it that both sets of pupils should be equally disadvantaged ? gareth pierce : well , no , in a way , it uses the same principle as we have regarding our use of digital resources . with the digital materials , the intention is that things are available in time and that they 're available in both languages at the same time . so , trying to imitate that with printed text is what we 're trying to do , but not with texts that are already late . so , if these books keep to the timetable , then they will be available in time in both languages , but that the english version has stayed before going out on the shelves . llyr gruffydd am : so , that 's to say that the english version will be completed eight weeks beforehand so that you have eight weeks for translation . mike ebbsworth : well , ultimately , i may have used the wrong words in saying that we 're holding the english back . the english version would still be in the process , just as the welsh version would be , and then they would catch up as they approach the date for publication and printing . there is an element of editing the english as well as the welsh and that would happen in that eight-week period . so , a draft form might be available , and we do ensure that our draft versions are available on our secure website as soon as possible , but then that has to be held up before publication . lynne neagle am : thank you . john . </s>
<s> what did gareth pierce think of the digital inequalities as a kind of unfairness ? </s> john griffiths am : okay . coming back again to matters that we 've already discussed , but just to put to you in a fairly focused way , would you accept that it is n't fair that some pupils are not having the support material that others are having , depending on whether their particular subject is involved and the language that they 're studying through ? would you accept that that is a basic unfairness in the system as it currently exists ? </s>
<s> according to gareth pierce , how did they develop the pupils ' skills to analyse and combine information into a discursive argument ? </s> lynne neagle am : can i ask for brief answers , please ? gareth pierce : yes , well some of the people who provide ideas into our digital resources certainly are either teachers who are very well aware of that progression to he and therefore what their learners want or , in some cases , they are he people themselves . we do draw on a body of expertise , and we are more than willing to emphasise the importance of that approach to the support resources we provide . hefin david am : i think the difficulty and the difference is that , at he level , the kind of journal articles that are available are probably not consumable at gcse level . that 's part of the problem you have with that approach . </s>
<s> how did wjec respond to the criticisms from estyn about the materials ? </s> mark reckless am : gareth , can i just put to you— ? on the estyn criticism , i think you 've answered one aspect of their criticism that wjec did not make as many sample assessment materials available as schools would have liked early on in the reform process , and i understand your position there , but they went on and said , 'at times the sample assessment materials were provided with incorrect mark schemes ' and also , 'it would be helpful if the wjec ensure that all necessary resources were made available before the start date of each qualification . ' do you have a response to those points ? gareth pierce : again , probably , i 'd like a conversation with them about any problems with the specimen assessments and their mark schemes , because if they are the statutory regulatory ones they would have gone through philip 's team as well or his welsh government predecessors as regulators , depending on which qualifications they were . obviously , we need to be spot-on with those . very occasionally , somebody will identify an error , and obviously we then correct them , because these are available digitally online . so , if there is a problem , we want to hear about it and then we can correct it . but , yes , i agree with their fundamental premise , that ideally the whole package of resources should be available before teaching starts , including , as we mentioned earlier , so we can draw on that set of resources in the events we run as wjec free of charge for teachers leading up to the first teaching . we need that information ourselves as well so we can talk about the use of these valuable resources in an appropriate pedagogical context in that preparatory year . so , the ideal is that everything is there 12 months ahead . mark reckless am : so , what mechanism do you have for picking up on this type of criticisms from estyn and having that conversation with them ? has that not happened ? </s>
<s> according to philip blaker , who should be responsible for developing the curriculum resources ? </s> darren millar am : just on this issue of shaping the curriculum and making sure that we 've got textbooks that can be used to support the delivery of the curriculum— . so , obviously , the wjec 's interested in the examinations and the qualifications . that 's your role as well in terms of qualifications wales . so , who should be responsible for developing these curriculum resources ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ( simcoe north , cpc ) ) : honourable members , i call this meeting to order . welcome to the 15thmeeting of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . this will be a hybrid meeting . members will be participating via video conference or in person . i will remind you that in order to avoid issues with sound , members participating in person should not also be connecting by video conference . in order to ensure that those joining the meeting via video conference can be seen and heard by those in the chamber , two screens have been set up here on either side of the speaker 's chair , and members in the chamber can listen to the floor audio or to interpretation using the earpieces on their desks . before speaking , please wait until i recognize you by name and please direct your remarks through the chair . for those joining by video conference , i 'd like to remind you to leave your microphones on mute when you are not speaking . also , please note that if you want to speak in english , you need to be on the english channel for interpretation , and if you want to speak french , you should do so on the french channel . should you wish to alternate between the two languages , please change to the channel for the language that you happen to be using at the time . should members participating by video conference need to request the floor outside their designated speaking times , they should activate their mic and state that they have a point of order . those in the chamber can rise in the usual way . please note that today 's proceedings will be televised in the same way as a typical sitting of the house . we will now proceed to ministerial announcements . i invite the right hon . prime minister to take the floor . right hon . justin trudeau ( papineau , lib . ) : thank you , mr.chair . i rise today to address what so many people of colour live with every day . over the past few days , we 've seen horrific reports of police violence against black men and women south of the border , but these are not isolated incidents or elsewhere problems . prejudice , discrimination and violence are a lived reality for far too many people . they are a result of systems that far too often condone , normalize , perpetrate and perpetuate inequality and injustice against people of colour . as a country , we are not concerned bystanders simply watching what is happening next door . we are part of it . the calls for justice , for equality and for peace are found echoed in our communities , because anti-black racism is happening here , everywhere in canada , every single day . this is something that our own staff , cabinet ministers and colleagues face even in these halls . over the past few days , i 've heard many of these personal stories directly from them . i 'm not just talking about acts of violence . i 'm also talking about microaggressions , which many of us may not even see . that is the daily reality of far too many racialized canadians , and it needs to stop . when it comes to being an ally , i have made serious mistakes in the past , mistakes that i deeply regret and continue to learn from . i want to thank my colleagues , community leaders and fellow canadians for opening my eyes to what is really going on in our communities and for helping me better understand both privilege and power . i 'm not perfect , but not being perfect is not a free pass to not do the right thing . it 's not an excuse to not step up , stand up for each other , be an ally . i know that for so many people listening right now , the last thing you want to hear is another speech on racism from a white politician . i 'm not here today to describe a reality i do not know or to speak to a pain i have not felt . i 'm here because i want you to know that our government is listening . we hear your calls for justice , equality and accountability . we acknowledge your frustration , your anger , your heartbreak . we see you . since coming to office , our government has taken many concrete steps to fight anti-black racism , systemic discrimination and injustice across the country . we are working directly with the communities and their leaders to close the gaps that persist in canada . for example , we have provided $ 9million to support programs for black canadian youth . we have made significant investments to enable the public health agency of canada to provide more mental health services to people who have experienced racism or intergenerational trauma . we are helping community organizations to obtain funding to purchase equipment or lease space . we have also created the anti-racism secretariat , which has an envelope of $ 4.6million , to address systemic barriers , such as employment , justice and social participation , that perpetuate injustice . we have made progress , but we know the work is far from being done . over the past five years , our government has worked with communities to recognize and address injustices . we 've taken action to support community organizations , invest in better data and fight racism . while we 've made some progress , there is still so much more to do , because here are the facts in canada : anti-black racism is real . unconscious bias is real . systemic discrimination is real . for millions of canadians , it is their daily , lived reality . the pain and damage it causes are real too . mr . chair , every canadian who has felt the weight of oppression , every student who has the courage to demand a better future , every person who marches and posts and reads and fights , from vancouver to montreal to halifax , expects more than the status quo . they expect more and deserve better . the government of canada has a lot of work to do , but we 're ready . we 're ready to work with our opposition colleagues , community leaders and canadians to make our country a more just and fair place . racism never has a place in this country , and we will do everything we can to eradicate it from coast to coast to coast . thank you , mr.chair . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable leader of the opposition . hon . andrew scheer ( leader of the opposition ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . over the past week , we have all been affected by the heartbreaking killing of george floyd in the united states . the video is painful to watch . no one should ever have to plead for help while a crime is being committed , ignored by other members of law enforcement . the tragedy triggered marches , occupations , protests and , unfortunately , riots . however , i hope it has mostly sparked conversations . racism is real , painful and unacceptable . no one should ever feel unsafe because of the colour of their skin , especially around police officers who have a duty and a responsibility to uphold the law for all . here in canada , we are fortunate to live in a country that is welcoming , tolerant and inclusive . canada was a beacon of freedom to so many escaping slavery during the u.s. civil war . our nation has benefited immensely from great canadians who overcame prejudices and discrimination to serve their communities and make canada a better country : lincoln alexander , elected as a conservative in 1968 , was the first black member of parliament and went on to become the first black cabinet minister ; john ware was born into slavery in south carolina but , following the american civil war , was a leading figure in bringing the first cattle to alberta and spearheading the ranching industry that would become the backbone of the province ; josiah henson escaped slavery to become a thriving businessman in ontario ; and of course , viola desmond challenged segregation in nova scotia . black canadians throughout history have not just built this nation with their contributions ; they have also represented canada with excellence and pride on the world stage , like harry jerome , who represented canada in three olympic games and won a bronze medal in 1964 . he would go on to become a teacher in british columbia , once again serving with excellence to try to make a better world for the next generation . throughout our history , black canadians have put their lives on the line for their fellow canadians , bravely serving around the world in our armed forces . while there are many things we can point to in our history with pride , that is not to say that we have a perfect record , nor that we are immune to the threat of racism or that anti-black racism is just an american problem . canada has had its own dark episodes of racism that can not be ignoredsadly , not just in our past . every day , there are people who experience discrimination or racism in some form . throughout this pandemic , we have seen a troubling spike in anti-asian racism . no one should be attacked in their community or targeted on the bus because of the colour of their skin . nor should places of worship be broken into and desecrated , like the synagogue in montreal . the conservatives condemn all acts of anti-semitism , racism and discrimination . in a peaceful and free country like canada , there is absolutely no room for intolerance , racism or extremism of any kind . but the violence and destruction we have seen in response are not the answer . millions of people are protesting peacefully across the united states and in canada , and we must always protect the rights of people who are protesting peacefully and within the law for a just cause and separate them from those who exploit tragedies to commit acts of violence . mr. floyd 's brother , terrence , said that violence will not bring his brother back . instead , he has called for peace and justice and urged the crowds to educate themselves and to vote . out of such tragedy , mr . chair , that is a powerful message about how each one of us can use our democratic rights to effect change . in a peaceful and free country like canada , there is absolutely no room for intolerance , racism and extremism of any kind . we are not born believing we are better than one another . we are all created in the image and likeness of god , and because of that , we are all equal . an infinite value exists in each one of us . canada is an incredibly diverse country . canada is a nation of immigrants that stands on the traditional territories of first nations , inuit and mtis people . waves of newcomers have come to canada for a better life because our country is built on a rock-solid foundation of enduring values , democratic institutions , the rule of law and fundamental and universal human rights . everyone comes here because canada is built on solid values , democratic institutions , and respect for the rule of law , as well as for fundamental , universal human rights . we must absolutely protect these values , because they are what sets us apart . they allow canada to offer what so many other countries simply can not . there are those who say that diversity is our strength , and that is true , but it does n't quite capture the full picture . diversity is the result of our strength , and our strength is and always has been our freedom . it is the freedom for people to preserve and pass on their cultural traditions and the opportunity to live in peace with those around them ; the freedom to live your life with equality under the law , regardless of your race or ethnic background ; and the economic freedom that so many governments around the world deny their people . it is that economic freedom that ensures that hard work pays off . it gives people the ability to work towards their dreams and choose their own path in life . together , generations of canadians who trace their roots back to countries around the world have built canada to truly the greatest country on earth , the true north strong and free . to ensure that our people remain free , we must continue to fight attacks on our freedoms , including racism and all forms of brutality and injustice in canada and around the world . minority rights must be protected . freedom of religion must be protected . freedom of expression and the right to peaceful protest must be protected . as john diefenbaker said , i am a canadian ... free to speak without fear , free to worship ... in my own way , free to stand for what i think right , free to oppose what i believe wrong , free to choose those who shall govern my country . this heritage of freedom i pledge to uphold for myself and all mankind . thank you very much , mr . chair . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for beloeilchambly . mr. yves-franois blanchet ( beloeilchambly , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . george floyd is not a victim of racism ; he is another victim of racism . at a time of crisis when outrage is overwhelming the caution and fear of disease among thousands of people who , despite everything , take to the streets to express that outrage , we here in politics will have to be careful , once again , about the words we use . indeed we are particularly inclined to give other people 's words a meaning other than the one they would have liked to give them . today , our dutyand i would say almost our only dutyis to express our solidarity , our sadness , our indignation and our anger , but above alland in saying this , i 'm thinking of all my friends and acquaintances in the wonderful black community in quebec and the unitedstatesour friendship . we must try to be heard by all humans . every time we talk about this , a small part of me surfaces , that of the non-practising but unrepentant anthropologist who wants to remind us that races do not exist . it is the frequency of manifestations of certain genetic traits favoured by geography and history , which in turn shape cultures . racism expresses itself first and foremost through aggression against what is presumed to be the culture of others , difference . each time difference instills fear , it is , of course , one time too many . we must learn to live equality in diversity , in itself an extraordinary thing . governments in the u.s. have all been racist . their racism has necessarily been expressed , at some point in their history , in their institutions . it has left its mark . it is the only thing that we have the right to call systemic racism or systemic discrimination . i am concerned when anyone suggests that we are all and collectively inclined to engage in systemic discrimination or when anyone claims to be a bulwark of virtue between us and the victims . i believe that the canadian government is not racist , that the quebec government is not racist , and that the governments of our municipalities are not racist either . i believe , however , that there may be traces of horrible things left in our institutions that colour our relationships with people of different origins or with people who were here long before us . so systemic racism probably exists . it should not denounce individuals , but it should encourage us to reread our rules to get rid of what might still be discriminatory in them . this day belongs to georgefloyd . this day belongs to the black people of the unitedstates . this day belongs to the black people of quebec and canada . we do n't play politics at the funeral doors : we gather our thoughts , and let indignation and sadness be expressed . we leave the streets to those who need to speak with one voice , in peace . all that is peaceful is legitimate . nothing that is violent is legitimate . the prime minister expressed the desire to implement concrete measures to fight racism . the first must be to show our solidarity and friendship . i 'm proposing a very concrete measure , which is to give priority and expedited processing to the files of refugee claimantsespecially haitian , especially black , but also of other originswho have expressed their desire to be part of the quebec nation by putting themselves on the front line . he has the power and the duty to do so , and if he needs parliament , let 's do it tomorrow or right now . that way , words will become actions , and the next step will be all the more credible . in the meantime , our duty is to stand up for those who are afraid and against those who frighten them . thank you , mr.chair . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable member for burnaby south . mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : thank you , mr.chair . many , many canadians were shocked to see the violence surrounding the murder of georgefloyd . georgefloyd 's murder is a grim reminder that anti-black racism still exists and that it hits hard . anti-black racism is n't only in the unitedstates ; it 's here in canada , too . systemic racism against blacks , indigenous people and many other visible minorities is alive and well : racial profiling , economic inequality , social inequality , discriminatory hiring , trivialization of violence , excess incarceration , and so on . things are n't moving forward because one government after another prefers pretty words to concrete action . when the time comes to act , they do n't have the courage , they do n't have the will to act . people are feeling a lot of grief and frustration , but we can turn that into action and justice . we must not just call for peace . i believe that we have to call for justice . justice is the only way to create a better world . when people around the world saw the killing of george floyd , it left all of us shaken to our core . it was chilling , the casual violence of anti-black racism , the callous taking of another human being 's life . it hurt to the core . there was pain . there was sadness . there is anger , and rightly so . there is frustration . this is n't just an american problem . this is just as much a canadian problem as well , and something that continues to exist across our country . anti-black racism and anti-indigenous racism are real . people have suffered violence . indigenous people and black people have suffered violence and have been killed at the hands of police here in canada . i think about regis korchinski-paquet in toronto and the calls for justice for regis . a black trans woman was killed in suspicious circumstances in an interaction with the police . i think about stewart kevin andrews , a young indigenous man killed in an interaction with the police in winnipeg . the anger and frustration are about this : how many more people need to die before there 's action ? how many more speeches will be made ? how many more protests need to happen before something is done ? how many more times will people plead to breathe ? how many more times will they plead to live ? what we 're talking about is basic human dignity . how many more voices have to ask , demand , plead , beg for basic human dignity ? people are angry . they 're feeling like enough is enough . why do they need to keep on asking ? why do black people , why do indigenous people need to keep on asking to be treated like humans ? why ? you know , people are done with pretty speeches , particularly pretty speeches from people in power who could do something about it right now if they wanted to . i 'm standing in a hall of power , the chamber of the commons , with a prime minister who has the power not just to say pretty words but to actually do something about this . the prime minister of this country has the power to go beyond pretty words and pretty speeches and do something . i do n't have all the answers . i do n't think any one person does . we 're going to have to come up with those solutions together , but there are certainly some things we do know . martin luther king said , true peace is not merely the absence of tension ; it is the presence of justice . that 's what we need . we need justice . killer mike extolled that people should plan , plot , strategize , organize and then mobilize . cardi b put it this way : another way for the people to take poweri do n't want to make everything political but it is what it isis by voting . so what do we vote for ? we vote for a government to take action . i call on the prime minister , in this hall of power : if the prime minister believes that black lives matter , will the prime minister commit to ending racial profiling in our country ? if the prime minister believes that black lives matter , will the prime minister commit to ending the over-policing of black bodies ? if the prime minister believes , truly believes , that black lives matter , will the prime minister commit to ending the over-incarceration of black people in this country ? if the prime minister truly believes that black lives matter , will he commit to ensuring that there are race-based data to make better decisions ? will he commit to ensuring that there 's access to education and to health resources ? the prime minister has the power to do all these things right now . the prime minister simply needs to get it done . if the prime minister truly believes that indigenous lives matter , then similarly the prime minister must commit today to ending the racial profiling of indigenous people , the over-policing of indigenous people and the over-incarceration of indigenous people . if the prime minister truly believes that indigenous lives matter , the prime minister could stop taking indigenous kids to court ; the prime minister could stop delaying the action on the calls for justice for the murdered and missing indigenous women and girls . if the prime minister believes that indigenous lives matter , he could ensure that there 's clean drinking water and access to justice and to education and housing right now . people are angry because they are frustrated and done with pretty words . people are angry because they 're done with pretty speeches from people in power who could do something about it right now . people do n't want peace . they do n't want an absence of tension . people want the presence of justice . people want justice . people deserve justice . people need justice , and justice is what people will get . nothing less will do . thank you . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable member for saanichgulf islands ms. elizabeth may ( saanichgulf islands , gp ) : thank you , mr . chair . this is indeed a difficult day . it 's a difficult week . these have been difficult weeks . i stand here and want to begin by acknowledging that we are all on the traditional territory of the algonquin peoples , and again to say meegwetch , on a day like this when we 're focusing on something so painful that really is beyond partisanship and that should bind us together as people who say we can not tolerate racism , not in this country . but we know it 's here . as the prime minister just said , racism never has a place in this country . but we know it 's here and we know it 's living with us . we are facing , in this pandemic , two dangerous , invisible viruses . one is covid-19 and the other one we 've tolerated far too long , which is race-based hatred , hate speech and anti-black racism . yes , black lives matter . i want to do nothing but just chant it in this place until we all stand together and say , black lives matter . what we are seeing in the murder of george floyd is exactly as my colleague from the bloc qubcois said : george floyd is not a victim of racism ; he is another victim of racism . there is victim upon victim upon victim . these victims have names . we must not forget their names . the first time a black man was killed when his last words were i ca n't breathe was in 2014 , with eric garner . his mother did interviews this week . imagine what she 's going through , because george floyd died on video also saying , i ca n't breathe , and the people who were stopping him from breathing , his killers , are the police . in the case of eric garner , the policemen were fired but never charged . in george floyd 's murder , at least one killer has been charged , but it does n't do anything to ease the pain , nor , as my friend from the ndp said , does it quench the thirst for justice , because that 's what people are crying out for . they 're crying out for justice . the names just keep cascading . i had to look it up because i thought , when was it that the poor young man who was jogging was murdered by the father and son in the pickup truck ? he was murdered by a retired policeman and his son in their pickup truck , in february . breonna taylor of louisville was murdered in her own home by cops who thought she might have drugs there . they searched , and she did n't . what on earth allows this to keep happening over and over again ? i looked at a site called just security and i thought these words from reporter mia bloom , who happens to be canadian , were pretty clear on what puts you at risk of death in the united states of america , but also in canada : driving while black , jogging while black , reporting while black , bird watching while black , selling lemonade while black can get you killed . the killers far too often are wearing a uniform . i want to go back to the words reporting while black , because this is something else we 've seen in the last four days that we 've never seen before , which is the deliberate targeting of reporters by police . over 100 reporters have been injured in the united states in the last four days . one woman lost her eye . these are serious injuries . sometimes reporters get in the way of riots and whatnot , but this is different . this is another element altogether . it seems that , in this place , when we have speeches and pretty words to denounce racism , we do it in a kind of cycle . after colten boushie 's murder , we talked about anti-indigenous racism . we talked about the threat to our indigenous brothers and sisters across this country who also face racism on a daily basis . we talked about the fact that they are disproportionately in our prisons . just within the last day , the report came down on the killing of dale culver in prince george at the hands of the prince george rcmp . this indigenous young man was 35 years old , and he was pepper-sprayed until he could n't breathe . there will be charges in this case . that 's the recommendation that just came down . we go through sequential moments where we can say islamophobia is not okay . six muslims at prayer in quebec city were murdered . we can all stand up and say we denounce islamophobia . or we can denounce anti-trans violence against individual trans people who are murdered . we denounce anti-semitism when we see anti-semitic graffiti scrawled on the door of an ottawa rabbi 's home . we denounce it , but can we get to the root of it ? as the honourable leader of the conservative party mentioned , in recent days we 're seeing anti-asian racism on the increase . we 're seeing all this happen and we want to be good allies . we want to be a good ally to the family of regis korchinski-paquet . we want to be a good ally . i am a woman of privilege . i got it by mere random accident of birth . i was born to white parents . privilege is being white . we have to study our privilege . we have to acknowledge our privilege and we have to know , as the prime minister said , we 're not perfect , but it does n't give us a free pass to ignore that we have to stand up and we have to speak out . i am sitting so close to my friend here , our minister , ahmed husseni say your name out loud , but your tweets brought me to tearsthat this fine man faces racism in his own riding , that his three beautiful black boys have people turn away or clutch their purse or they 're a little worried when the kids are around . it sounds exactly like what the prime minister just called the microaggressions that many of us might not even see . we can look at our own conduct and our own behaviour . in looking at these things , there is something i want to say , when we look at all these things that are happening and we wonder , what we can do about it . when we see a bully , when we hear hate speech , we have to speak up . we have to speak out and we have to say that the president of the united states is fomenting hatred and violence and it 's shameful and shocking that he would grab a bible , then use tear gas to clear peaceful protestors on a washington street so that donald trump could pose with a bible in front of an episcopal church . the episcopal bishop of washington had this to say , because she is a good ally : in no way do we support the president 's incendiary response to a wounded , grieving nation . in faithfulness to our saviour who lived a life of non-violence and sacrificial love , we align ourselves with those seeking justice for the death of george floyd . that 's what we must do in this place . we must acknowledge and speak up for justice for the missing and murdered indigenous women and girls , the report on which languishes a year later . we must stand up for justice and we must examine something very worrying . in 2006 , the u.s. fbi warned that white supremacist groups were targeting police forces and joining them . if we 're looking for real action , things we can do in this place , i call on us to have an inquiry and an examination to root out white supremacist groups in canada and identify them for what they are , a terrorist threat in our midst . we must make sure they 're not in our police forces , because if there is one thing scarier than a white supremacist with a gun , it 's a white supremacist with a gun in uniform . please , god , there are things we can do . please , god , we love each other , take care of each other regardless of the colour of our skin , and pray for the united states of america . it 's a country being ripped apart , and the ripping and the tearing is being done by people who should at this very time be consoling and leading and inspiring . pray . pray for canada . pray for each and every one of our beautiful black baby girls and boys , the indigenous baby girls and boys , the asian kids . wherever you look , reach out and be a good ally . stand up and say , with my body i get between you and the cops . we have to be good allies . right now , they 're just pretty words . thank you for listening . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will now proceed to presenting petitions for a period not exceeding 15minutes . i 'd like to remind honourable members that any petition presented during the meeting of this special committee must have already been certified by the clerk of petitions . for members participating in person , we ask that they please come and drop the signed certificate off at the table once the petition is presented . the honourable member for nanaimoladysmith , mr. manly . mr. paul manly ( nanaimoladysmith , gp ) : mr . chair , it 's difficult to follow that set of speeches . i have a petition on a serious issue dealing with plastic pollution . it creates a major impact on aquatic life but also on human health . it 's estimated that 74,000 to 121,000 microplastic particles are ingested per person every year . a recent study shows that each washing cycle 120,000 to 730,000 microfibres are shed from clothes and go directly into waste water . many of these microfibres are synthetic and therefore are microplastics . washing machine discharge filters are currently available on the market and greatly reduce the amount of microfibres being released into waste water and thus the environment . this petition is calling on the government to legislate the requirement for all new washing machines to have discharge filters as of 2021 and to provide incentives to all residents of canada to install discharge filters on current washing machines . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : presenting petitions , the hon . member for peace riverwestlock . mr. arnold viersen ( peace riverwestlock , cpc ) : mr . chair , i rise to table a petition signed by canadians who are concerned about bill c-7 . given what we 've seen in assisted living homes in this country and the devastation particularly in ontario and quebec , the petitioners are asking for the government to look into assisted living , not assisted dying . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : presenting petitions , the hon . member for saanichgulf islands . ms. elizabeth may : mr . chair , it 's an honour to rise to present a petition today from a number of constituents calling for the government to act to uphold the united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and the truth and reconciliation commission 's calls to action . there is a call to respect the wet'suwet'en territory and to dismantle rcmp exclusion zones . this petition came some time ago . some of these issues have been dealt with . i am particularly pleased to note that the nation-to-nation talks called for by petitioners between the wet'suwet'en and the federal and provincial governments have taken place . i will take this moment if i may to thank the honourable ministers involved in that effort . thank you . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : that will conclude the presenting of petitions . i would ask members who have presented petitions here in person in the house if they would be so kind as to bring their petitions to the table . that would be most appreciated . we 'll now go to statements by members for a period not exceeding 15 minutes . i would remind members to do their best to keep their member statement to a maximum of one minute . we 'll start statements by members with mr. weiler , the member for west vancouversunshine coastsea to sky country . mr. patrick weiler ( west vancouversunshine coastsea to sky country , lib . ) : mr . chair , i continue to be amazed by how the communities throughout my riding have stepped up to support our most vulnerable at our time of crisis . in many ways it has brought our communities closer together even while we stay physically distant . nowhere is this more true than on the sunshine coast . dedicated individuals immediately and organically mobilized the sunshine coast community task force to coordinate local government , non-profit and business efforts to provide critical services to the community . social enterprises banded together to form the sunshine coast food service response , which provides ready-made meals and donates to food banks . persephone brewing and others deliver groceries to at-risk customers both on the coast and on isolated islands . the 101 brewhouse + distillery and bruinwood distillery quickly retooled their business to supply much-needed hand sanitizer to local hospitals and other front-line workers . covid-19 , like all crises , has highlighted true leadership in our society , and i am grateful for what they and all of our health care workers do every day to get us through this . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for medicine hatcardstonwarner , mr. motz . mr. glen motz ( medicine hatcardstonwarner , cpc ) : mr . chair , the prime minister and his cabinet have shown they 're unwilling to put the protection and safety of canadians ahead of political interests . they themselves are the greatest source of disinformation in this country . the prime minister told canadians that they can buy a gun without a licence . either purposely or because of ignorance , he left out the fact that doing so is a criminal offence with a five-year prison sentence . the minister of public safety said he would n't target hunters , but then he went ahead and banned numerous bolt-action hunting rifles and made owning a shotgun a criminal offence . they have weakened the ability to protect our borders . they have ignored our rampant drug crisis , and they have weakened sentences for serious crimes , all while saying they take these issues very seriously . today they tell us they are banning a new liberal-invented type of firearm , a military-style assault rifle . it 's time to be honest with canadians . the liberals would rather make people afraid of hunters , farmers and sport shooters than deal with the real issues like drugs , gangs , illegal smuggling and crime . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to ms. sgro , the hon . member for humber riverblack creek . hon . judy a. sgro ( humber riverblack creek , lib . ) : mr . chair , it is in our most difficult moments when we truly see stunning displays of human spirit and generosity . on that note , today i wish to recognize the work of the humber river hospital in my riding of humber riverblack creek and to congratulate them on the success of their humber front-line support fund and ppe drive . not only have they been on the front lines of the covid-19 pandemic keeping our residents safe and healthy , but thanks to the generosity of those both in my riding and beyond , the humber river hospital has raised over $ 1 million and received over 400,000 pieces of personal protective equipment . this will be invaluable to the hospital as they continue to work with us and fight the good fight to keep us all healthy . i thank all those brave workers at the hospital , and i thank those generous individuals who have donated to this important cause . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : i now invite the hon . member for abitibitmiscamingue , mr.lemire , to take the floor . mr. sbastien lemire ( abitibitmiscamingue , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . i am honoured to speak to you about a proud warrior . stephanlavoie had made the choice to say thank you to life . for several years , he had been using his fight against cancer , which he led with the help of natural products only , to ensure cancer services and care were improved , particularly in regions far from major centres . mayor of preissac , in the rcm of abitibi , stephanlavoie passed away yesterday . i would like to extend my condolences to his wife , anabelle , to his entire family and especially to his daughter , astrid , who is only 20months old . through his humanism , stephanlavoie was a warrior , a visionary and a great source of inspiration for all of us . to me , he was above all the perfect model of a committed and loving father . my thoughts also go out to the citizens of preissac , to whom he leaves a dynamic legacy , and to the leaders of the abitibi community . in our first conversation , he said to me , and i hope the house will echo it forever , that all of our decisions must be made with our children in mind . stephan , rest in peace , dear friend . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for montroyal , mr.housefather , has the floor . mr. anthony housefather ( mount royal , lib . ) : it is with great sadness that i rise today to pay tribute to tristan roy , after his tragic passing exactly two weeks ago . born in saint-fabien-sur-mer , tristan became a pillar of the montroyal community in1997 when he bought the old montroyal newspaper . when the city 's oldest newspaper , the tmr weekly post ceased operations , tristan registered the name and renamed his newspaper the tmr poste de mont-royal . he created a truly bilingual newspaper , ensuring that tmr residents could receive their news in both french and english . his editorials and views on local issues carried enormous weight . i join mayor philippe roy and the members of the town council in offering our sincere condolences to tristan 's wife , anne-marie , his daughter , aril , and his son , lancelot . we all considered tristan to be a friend , an example of what a good journalist and editor should be and could be . he will be sorely missed . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for beauce , mr.lehoux , has the floor . mr. richard lehoux ( beauce , cpc ) : mr.chair , if you did n't already know , people from beauce are proud . there is marie-philippoulin of beauceville , who was named the best female hockey player in the world earlier this year , or antonyauclair of notre-dame-des-pins . antonyauclair said , in a cbc article , that beauce had prepared him for his arrival in the nfl . there is also guillaumecouture , from sainte-marie , who made his mother very proud , and everyone from beauce indirectly , on the program les chefs again last night . it is this same pride that i see throughout the region , with companies like revtech systmes , in saint-joseph-de-beauce , or purihaze , in sainte-marie , which have invented robots to decontaminate spaces . there are also local purchasing initiatives such as the # onlaici campaign by the nouvelle-beauce chamber of commerce and industry or achetons beauceron , by the saint-georges chamber of commerce . today i have but two words for my constituents : thank you . i thank them for continuing to encourage local businesses that greatly need it . i thank them for being loyal to their habits and to rolling up their sleeves to help their neighbours . i thank them for being proud and being residents of beauce . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go now to the member for don valley east , ms. ratansi . ms. yasmin ratansi ( don valley east , lib . ) : mr . chair , our government has shown leadership during the covid-19 pandemic by ensuring that canadians remain safe and get the financial assistance they need . eight million canadians are receiving the canada emergency response benefit . the canada emergency business account and the canada emergency wage subsidy ensure that the economy is ready to start up post-pandemic . seniors received top-ups to the oas and gis , and families , the child care benefit . all of these measures are helping thousands of seniors and low-income families in my riding of don valley east . the feedback from my regular virtual town halls has also helped to fine-tune many of the programs . many canadians have shown generosity during this crisis . i want to particularly thank saravanaa bhavan and happy pops for donating food and frozen treats to our superhero front-line workers at local hospitals . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for vaughanwoodbridge , mr. sorbara . mr. francesco sorbara ( vaughanwoodbridge , lib . ) : mr . chair , even though this year 's festivities for italian heritage month will be done differently , the same spirit and vitality exists throughout virtual events happening across the country . virtual events have seen italian canadians , through their generosity , raise over $ 1 million to help italy during covid-19 . today , june 2 , italian citizens celebrate the founding of the modern day italian republic . the italian canadian story remains one of passion , an adopted homeland filled with hard work , sacrifice and optimism . generations of italian canadians have contributed much to shaping the inclusive and generous canada that we know today . our diversity is our strength , and i 'm proud to be italian canadian . let 's all join together in proudly celebrating italian heritage month . thank you , mr . chair . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for calgary skyview , ms. sahota . ms. jag sahota ( calgary skyview , cpc ) : mr . chair , as communities begin to ease restrictions , i remain mystified that , according to this government , parliament is not an essential service . if it were up to the prime minister , he would not have to answer to anyone . that is not how democracy works . we in the opposition have been long calling for the return of parliament , which would be possible while still maintaining public health guidelines . canadians deserve to be represented in the house of commons by the elected member of parliament . while the work we do in our constituencies is incredibly important , it is equally important to bring those voices back to ottawa to debate , to question and to hold the government to account . this is fundamental to the role of an elected representative . the role of the opposition is crucial now more than ever when billions of dollars are being spent with little oversight . our role as members of parliament is to uphold our democracy and to be present . this is the greatest pandemic in our lifetime . now is not the time to hide behind a podium . if this government were doing the best job for canadians , they would not need to hide . thank you . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for brampton east , mr. sidhu . mr. maninder sidhu ( brampton east , lib . ) : mr . chair , i would like to take a moment to highlight displays of generosity in my riding of brampton east . this is just a small sample of the many individuals and organizations that have stepped up across canada . khalsa aid has been providing food supplies with the help of sperenza banquet hall , which has graciously provided the space to run a province-wide campaign out of brampton east . care4cause has sent hundreds of prepared meals on a weekly basis to good shepherd ministries to lessen their load . navraj brar at pharmasave has offered free care packages to health care workers and hand sanitizer to the peel regional police . aujla salon and spa has partnered with globalmedic to help deliver over 10,000 pounds of food to local food banks . i would also like to point out the heroic efforts of our truck drivers , taxi drivers , grocery store clerks , nurses , doctors , paramedics and countless other front-line heroes . we see you and we are immensely grateful for the bravery you display each and every day . thank you to everyone in brampton east who has stepped up for their neighbour in their time of need . you are setting a great example of the kind of progress we can make as canadians when we come together and support each other . i am truly honoured to represent you in ottawa . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for wellingtonhalton hills , mr. chong . hon . michael chong ( wellingtonhalton hills , cpc ) : mr . chair , the house of commons is shut down . let 's be clear . this is not the house of commons . it 's a committee where only statements , petitions and questions are allowed . there is no power to introduce motions , to test confidence or to vote . the government came to office promising greater democracy but they broke their promise on electoral reform . they tried to give the pmo the control over this house in motion 6 , and yesterday 's report confirms that they rigged the leaders debate in their favour in the last election . now they 've shuttered parliament . parliament sat through two world wars , the october crisis and previous pandemics and it survived the test , but not now . the people 's representatives need to sit . people need their representation . parliament and this house of commons with its full powers needs to reopen and it needs to reopen now . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable member for reginaqu'appelle . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , these past few months have been tremendously difficult for so many canadians : sickness , losing loved ones , job losses , economic hardships , loneliness and isolation . the pandemic has taken its toll on so many . it is in these times of suffering and adversity that we have seen canadians coming together to support each other and that brings us hope . mosques , churches , synagogues and gurdwaras have all answered the call to help their communities . whether it 's providing meals to the hungry , clothing for the cold , or technology for those who need it most , these actions are true reflections of the kindness and generosity that canadians are known for . while there are too many groups to mention them all , i want to thank vikas sharma and care4cause out of brampton for the meals that they have been providing their community in that area and across the gta . this group and thousands of others like it across the country are working tirelessly to ease the suffering of others and help those in need . thank you , and god bless all the volunteers . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : now we will go to the honourable member for winnipeg centre . ms. gazan , go ahead . ms. leah gazan ( winnipeg centre , ndp ) : mr . chair , i rise today in honour of national indigenous history month to speak truth about a history of racism in canada that was built on the wrongful dispossession of lands from indigenous people and controlled through the use of police-state violence that has resulted in a loss of life , freedom , respect and dignity . even today we continue to observe this reality in my very own city where we witnessed the killing of three indigenous youth by police in a span of 10 days this past april . this is not a coincidence . we have statistics . we have research , and we have stories of loved ones lost . we know it , and we see it in our lives every day . we need to address police violence throughout this country . canadians are rising from coast to coast demanding this of all of us and sending a clear message that we must address systemic racism in all of its forms to ensure justice for all . there will never be reconciliation in the absence of justice . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for beauportlimoilou , mrs.vignola , has the floor . mrs. julie vignola ( beauportlimoilou , bq ) : mr.chair , canada post is literally not delivering the goods . but the postal service is an essential service , and even more so today because everything is done online , even local shopping . the current crisis partly explains the congestion , but it is mainly due to the fact that canada post forgot to join the 21stcentury . it has been left behind where others have made millions of dollars . its platform is n't effective . it 's now delivering more parcels , but it 's losing money . there 's a statement to make here , right now . in the immediate term , canada post must deal with the delays , and to do so , it needs the help of the government of canada . canada post needs to hire staff . if a collective agreement had finally been signed , it would make it easier to hire staff . we have been waiting for two and a half years . a premium for essential workers might also be appropriate . as i said , the postal service is an essential service , and it 's time to give it the importance this status imposes . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will now go to the honourable member for calgary centre . mr. mclean , go ahead . mr. greg mclean ( calgary centre , cpc ) : mr . chair , the prospects in canada 's oil fields are bleak in the near term . capital spending forecasts and drilling activities sank to a 49-year low . this is a result of the temporary collapse in demand for our most valuable commodity and the one that contributes the most to our gdp , our balance of trade , and whose taxes support the social programs canadians enjoy , $ 108 billion in gdp , $ 8 billion per year in government revenues , $ 77 billion in trade surplus . it is a rude blow to hard-working professionals who soldier past negligent government policies that have left a stain on another generation of western canadians . we 're talking about an industry here that directly employs over 200,000 , including 11,000 indigenous canadians . we 're talking about an industry that contributes 75 % of canada 's investment in clean technology . however , canada 's resource industry will still be resilient . bad policy can not permanently erase the work , the hope and the pride of forward thinkers and doers , and their efforts to continue building a great country . thank you . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will now go to the honourable member for winnipeg south . mr. duguid , go ahead . mr. terry duguid ( winnipeg south , lib . ) : mr . chair , today i want to give a special thank you to the health care workers at victoria general hospital , who are serving patients in our community here in winnipeg south . every day , doctors , nurses and staff work selflessly to take care of those in our community who need it most . whether it 's by keeping seniors connected with their families by using ipads or making sure that patients go home with a special care package , staff at the vic are doing extraordinary work to make this difficult time just a little bit easier . i would also like to give a big shout-out to our wonderful small businesses in winnipeg south that continue to show their appreciation by preparing meals for the hard-working staff at the vic . folks in our community continue to show what it means to be exemplary canadians , and it is a great honour to represent them . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : this concludes the period for statements by members . we will now proceed to the questioning of ministers . the honourable leader of the opposition . hon . andrew scheer : mr.chair , the staff of long-term care facilities for seniors are showing exceptional courage and dedication . franoislegault asked that the military personnel currently helping in facilities in quebec stay until the fall . the prime minister said no . i 'd like to hear the prime minister tell us why they ca n't stay . right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , like all canadians , i am deeply grateful for the extraordinary work that the canadian armed forces are doing in long-term care facilities in quebec and ontario . thanks to their reports , we 've seen that the situation was even worse than we feared . the work our military is doing is extraordinary . we will continue to support them , but we know that having military personnel in our long-term care facilities is n't a long-term solution . therefore , we are going to work with quebec to find better long-term solutions . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , now that bell canada has decided to partner with ericsson to deliver its 5g network , the liberals will undoubtedly ban huawei , but the liberal inaction on huawei is just another example of this government 's weak leadership . instead of deciding for himself a year ago , the prime minister is forcing the business community to make the decision for him . why could n't the prime minister have shown some backbone and banned huawei a year ago ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , our approach every step of the way has been to listen to experts , to work with allies and to listen to the counsel of our security and intelligence community , which has been looking into this issue . we know we need to make sure that canadian businesses , canadians and canadian infrastructure are protected at the same time as we remain competitive in the world . that has guided our approach on this from the beginning . hon . andrew scheer : the fact of the matter , mr chair , is that it has n't . the former public safety minister , ralph goodale , promised in this house over a year ago that an answer on huawei would be coming . here we are , it 's june 2 , 2020 , and they still have n't made a decision . on another topic , mr . chair , the president of the treasury board wrote to cabinet last week and said that transparency is important even in a time of crisis . i guess the minister of infrastructure did n't get that letter . she 's refusing to tell us how much of a bonus she gave to the departing head of the canada infrastructure bank . at a time when canadians are struggling , it is disgusting that the liberals are paying out bonuses to someone who accomplished nothing . will the prime minister have a little respect for taxpayers and tell us exactly how much of a bonus the ceo of the canada infrastructure bank received ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , the mandate of the canada infrastructure bank is to find innovative ways to finance some of canada 's biggest infrastructure projects by leveraging private capital . the remuneration range of the former ceo has been in the public domain for more than two years . the opposition is looking backward . we 're moving forward . the bank is moving into its next phase of development , now under the leadership of the new board chair , michael sabia , and will play an important role in the recovery when the time comes . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , only to a liberal would an innovative approach to building infrastructure mean building absolutely nothing . the ceo of an infrastructure bank who accomplished zero completed infrastructure projects should not be receiving a bonus . i did n't ask a question about the remuneration . i did n't ask a question about the salary . this individual received a bonus . how much was that bonus ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , as i said , the remuneration range of this former ceo has been in the public domain for more than two years . in regard to further payments , we do not comment on personal hr and financial information of individuals in government . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , again , i did not ask about the remuneration . i asked about the bonus . the canada infrastructure bank was a liberal scheme designed to protect the investments of private investors and put all the risk onto taxpayers . even with that model , do you know how many projects they completed ? zero . yet , the individual in charge of that received a bonus from the prime minister . apparently , to the liberals , he was doing a good job . they might try to claim that it 's arm 's length and that they ca n't divulge this information , but we know that minister champagne personally intervened in the decision regarding the bonus of the canada infrastructure bank 's ceo . it 's a simple question . how much did that individual receive ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , five years ago , when we first got elected , we had to turn around the underinvestment that stephen harper 's conservatives had made in infrastructure across the country . even during the depths of the 2008 recession , the investments they made were for things like doorknobs and signs . they went into debt and did n't have anything to show for it . we 're going to continue to move forward on historic investments in infrastructure to build up this country . we 're using innovative means like the infrastructure bank to do that . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable member for beloeilchambly has the floor . mr. yves-franois blanchet : mr.chair , well before 1867 , in what became quebec , in new brunswick , in acadia , in ontario and in the west , lay the seeds of what later became the provinces of canada and quebec . it can therefore be inferred that canada is a creature of the provinces and that the provinces are not creatures of canada . could the prime minister read his answer to this question : who pays for the health transfers to the provinces ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , we have a country with a number of levels of government working together to serve canadians . in times of crisis , but also in good times , canadians expect that their governments will work together to provide the services and the care that they need . that is exactly what we are doing . mr. yves-franois blanchet : let me remind the prime minister that all the provinces and quebec are asking for increased and recurring health transfers that are unconditional and sustainable . who pays for the all-too-meagre benefits made available to the seniors of quebec and canada ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , we have worked with quebec and the other provinces to make sure that we invest in health transfers . we have made transfers of $ 500million , that 's halfabillion dollars , because of the recent covid-19 crisis . we will continue to work with the provinces in the long term . but , for the moment , we are working on the emergency situation in which we find ourselves . mr. yves-franois blanchet : mr.chair , the conservatives have backtracked on the wage subsidy , and i congratulate them for that . who pays for the part of the wage subsidy program that will be going into the coffers of the liberal party of canada ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , since this crisis began , we have made investments to protect jobs and workers , including accountants , human resources managers and receptionists . we are in the process of ensuring that people with all kinds of jobs in all kinds of organizations will be able to keep those jobs . mr. yves-franois blanchet : mr.chair , it is comforting to know that they are a little richer now , but some companies are under threat because the liberal party is a little richer . who is going to pay for the fact that one company has been chosen by a closed call for tender ? one company has been awarded a private contract , probably a foreign multinational , probably for 2021 , while we are perfectly capable of doing the work in quebec and in canada . who is going to pay for this gift to a private company that will be doing the government of canada 's work ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , we are in a crisis . we are in the process of helping workers and helping canadians by means of measures like the canada emergency response benefit , the canada emergency wage subsidy and with the assistance to companies , we will continue to do what we must do to help workers all across the country so that we can come out of this crisis together . mr. yves-franois blanchet : fundamentally , my impression was that , in a crisis , civil society turns to the state to find and implement solutions . i see that , in this case , and in all its operations , the government of canada takes money , about 20 % of which comes from quebec , and gives it to a private company , possibly a foreign company , so that it can tell us what will happen , although the first wave will have come and gone for a year already . is the prime minister telling us that he is incapable of doing his job ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , canadians expect their government to look after their health and the health of the economy . that is exactly what we are doing . we are here for workers , we are here for families , we are here for our seniors and for our students . we will continue to be here throughout this pandemic and as the economy reopens . that is what canadians expect of us and we will meet their expectations . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr.blanchet , you have about 40seconds left . mr. yves-franois blanchet : mr.chair , as i see it , the prime minister is contracting out his job with taxpayers ' money , a part of which is going into his party 's bank account for the next election . is that the only explanation of his role he has for the residents of quebec , a role that is currently protected by a crisis ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , all across the country , including in quebec , people are worried about their jobs because of the crisis that the pandemic is causing . we are providing a wage subsidy to organizations and to companies to ensure that people will receive their paycheques in order to support their families and pay their rent . that is what people expected from this government as a priority . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will now go to the honourable member for burnaby south , mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , people are fed up with pretty words from people in power . the prime minister has the power to do something about the anti-black racism that canada is faced with . will the prime minister end racial profiling in canada against black people once and for all ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , this government was the first government to recognize anti-black racism , systemic discrimination and unconscious bias and to take concrete actions against them in the context of the un international decade for people of african descent but also in the context of a country that stands up for human rights and protects everyone . we have made significant steps forward , but there is so much to do , and i look forward to working with all members in this house to do just that . mr. jagmeet singh : i did not hear an answer . will the prime minister end the racial profiling of black people in canada ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , our justice system unfairly targets in many situations racialized canadians , including indigenous canadians and black canadians . we know we need to improve our justice system and rates of incarceration and we will work on it . mr. jagmeet singh : will the prime minister end the over-policing and over-incarceration of black and indigenous people ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , systemic discrimination means that people of colour are at greater risk of being incarcerated than others when facing negative outcomes in the justice system . we know we need to work on all the determinants of that . we will work as a country together . mr. jagmeet singh : will the prime minister make sure canada is collecting disaggregated data on the impacts of covid-19 on racialized people , particularly indigenous and black people ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , not just on covid-19 but on all ranges of data , we 've made investments over the past years to statistics canada so that they are better able to collect data in a disaggregated fashion . we need to know what is happening within vulnerable communities . disaggregated data will help , and we 're working with provinces on the covid-19 data . mr. jagmeet singh : we know people are frustrated with anti-black racism . people are also incredibly frustrated with anti-indigenous racism . will the prime minister commit to ending the over-incarceration , over-policing and racial profiling of indigenous people ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , i referred to that in an earlier answer . yes , we need to work to ensure that the rates of incarceration for indigenous people and for racialized canadians are reduced . there are many measures we 're working on to move forward to make our justice system fairer , to reduce systemic discrimination and eventually to eliminate it . mr. jagmeet singh : here are two specific things we can do . i asked the prime minister if he will commit to stop taking indigenous kids to court , and if he will stop delaying the response to the murdered and missing indigenous women and girls calls for justice . right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , tomorrow is the anniversary of the end of the missing and murdered indigenous women and girls inquiry . we have been working over the past year with partners on the ground to formulate the measures and the response that needs to move forward . many of those partners over the past months have been engaged in keeping their communities safe and working hard on that , and that has delayed the putting out of the report . mr. jagmeet singh : will the prime minister stop taking indigenous kids to court when it comes to indigenous child welfare ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , we agree that we need to compensate kids and indigenous peoples who have suffered harm at the hands of our child and family services over the past decades and we will do that . mr. jagmeet singh : will the prime minister commit to not just pretty words but real action ensuring that all indigenous communities have access to clean drinking water ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , the ndp needs to know that we have eliminated over 80 long-term boil water advisories through our work over the past years , and we are on track to eliminating all of them on time by next spring . this is something we committed to canadians and we are doing . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : you have 30 seconds left , mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , the prime minister needs to speak to indigenous communities who talk of a completely different reality . they do not have access to clean drinking water , and communities are going off the list only to return back on to the list of boil water advisories . will the prime minister commit to ensuring all indigenous communities have clean drinking water ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , that was a commitment we made to canadians and a commitment we are keeping . the member opposite continues to talk as if there has been no progress made . there has been significant progress made . we are on track to eliminating those boil water advisories . it would be great if the members opposite talked about some good news instead of just highlighting the very real problems that are there . there is good news and there is challenging news . we are working on those together . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for carleton , mr. poilievre . hon . pierre poilievre ( carleton , cpc ) : mr . chair , what share of canada 's national debt is owed to foreign lenders ? hon . bill morneau ( minister of finance ) : mr . chair , we continue to manage our fiscal situation in a responsible manner , and we 'll continue to do that . hon . pierre poilievre : how much does the government of canada owe to the people 's republic of china ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we would be happy to provide information . if the member would like to send my office questions directly , i 'd be happy to provide this information . hon . pierre poilievre : it turns out i did a week ago . they still have n't provided answers to the questions , in particular the question regarding who owns canada 's foreign-held debt . we know that roughly a third of our debt is owned by foreigners . how much of that debt is owned by lenders from the people 's republic of china ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , as i said , we 'd be happy to reply to these questions directly . we 'll do so . we 'll get to it in order , as we work through this crisis , making sure we focus on canadians first . hon . pierre poilievre : how much is owned by lenders from saudi arabia ? hon . bill morneau : again , mr . chair , we 'd be happy to provide information in this regard should the member wish to send a request directly to my office . hon . pierre poilievre : which i have . mr . chair , moving along to the impacts of the debt on our people , how much would a 1 % increase in the effective interest rate on canada 's national debt cost canadian taxpayers ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we continue to manage our treasury function responsibly . i 'd be happy to get financial calculations to the member if he 'd like to send those directly to my office . hon . pierre poilievre : all right , mr . chair , we 'll try a different question , then , as we 're not getting any answers . we have lower interest rates than ever before . normally , it means you lock in those rates for the long run . anybody who has a mortgage knows you lock in for the long run when rates are low . what percentage of canada 's national debt is locked in for more than five years ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , i 'd be happy to get this information to the member , but i would acknowledge that as we manage the treasury function for the government of canada , we look at the short term , the medium term and the long term . we think we have come up with a responsible approach to managing the ongoing debt that we have as a country . hon . pierre poilievre : mr . chair , it turns out , according to department of finance officials , that less than 3 % of canada 's recently added debt since march is for terms of more than five years . why has this minister made canada so susceptible to future interest rate hikes by failing to lock in the $ 371.5 billion of new debt he 's added in the last two and a half months ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we continue to manage the treasury function of the government of canada in a responsible way , making sure we consider what debt should be issued in a short term , a medium term and a long term , which we 've been doing as the government of canada during our entire term and as previous governments have done as well . hon . pierre poilievre : canadians would be wise not to hire this minister as their mortgage broker if they 're looking to get the best rate . let 's move on to the canadian household . the average household was $ 200 away from insolvency before this crisis began . how many canadians would experience bankruptcy in the next 12 months if interest rates were to rise by an effective one percentage point ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , again , we 'd be happy to get calculations to the member . i would make the observation that what we 've been working to do during the course of this pandemic is to support canadians and support canadian families by providing them income during a time when they do n't have access to income because they 're actually at home . we think that has supported them in a very , very positive way that allows us to ensure that we will have a continuing economy when we get through this crisis . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : you have 30 seconds left , mr. poilievre . go ahead . hon . pierre poilievre : unfortunately , we will have a $ 1-trillion debt when this fiscal year comes to an end . how much will the finance minister try to raise taxes if interest rates on that debt rise by , say , 1 % ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , as i 've said to the house previously , we do not intend to raise taxes . what the member opposite is suggesting is that we should n't be investing to support canadians . i think the approach we 've taken , with the emergency response benefit and the wage subsidy , has been particularly critical for enabling canadians to get through a very challenging time . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the floor goes to the honourable member for beauce , mr.lehoux . mr. richard lehoux : mr.chair , my question goes to the minister of agriculture and agri-food . day after day , i speak with those involved in the world of agriculture and with witnesses appearing before the standing committee on agriculture and agri-food . the consensus is very clear : the business risk management programs are not working . when will the minister become involved and make major changes to those programs ? hon . marie-claude bibeau ( minister of agriculture and agri-food ) : mr.chair , we have made commitments to producers all across the country . some programs are already provided , including the risk management programs . i am working regularly with my colleagues in the provinces in order to improve them . we have also increased our contribution to various other programs , specifically in the meat sector , for pork or beef producers , and food processors . mr. richard lehoux : mr.chair , i have been hearing the same answers for several weeks now . could the minister simply give us a date ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : i repeat that we are working regularly with producers and their representatives . in addition , i am working together with my provincial colleagues . we are going to determine where the gaps are and we will identify the sectors that most need our assistance . then , we will determine the best way to provide them with the assistance they need . mr. richard lehoux : mr.chair , the government promised to set its share of the business risk management programs at 60 % , even if a province or territory does not participate . have the provinces received the money , yes or no ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : here is how it works . through the agrirecovery program , we have provided $ 50million for pork producers and $ 50million for beef producers . the program is available everywhere , but the provinces are responsible for implementing it . mr. richard lehoux : mr.chair , when will that transfer be made ? can the minister simply give us a date ? that is all we are asking . hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , i would really like to be able to give a date , but the answer depends on each of the provinces . the provinces have to implement the program . mr. richard lehoux : however , mr.chair , the minister has told us that she is ready to transfer the funds , whether or not the provinces add any to the program . to date , we still have no answer in that regard . how does the minister of agriculture intend to make major changes to the various risk management programs by july , when the government has itself pushed back the federal-provincial-territorial meeting of ministers of agriculture to october ? we have been meeting by zoom for some time now . why was that not able to be an option ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , i meet with my provincial colleagues every week , either by conference call or by zoom . i can assure my colleague about our ongoing collaboration with the provinces . as for the agrirecovery program , once again , the provinces have to implement it and it is their choice to contribute their share of 40 % or not , in whole or in part . however , our federal commitment on the 60 % share is firm . mr. richard lehoux : mr.chair , if i understand correctly , there will be no changes to the various programs before november . the sectors of agriculture under supply management , like eggs and poultry producers in my constituency , who have been promised compensation for a long time , want to know when the money will be transferred to the producers who are working tirelessly to feed our country . hon . marie-claude bibeau : i know that poultry , egg and milk producers work extremely hard . our commitment to them in terms of compensation in response to the three free-trade agreements is still firm . at the moment , we are concentrating on emergency programs . we will then proceed with that compensation . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr.lehoux , you have about 30seconds left . mr. richard lehoux : thank you , mr.chair . as i see it , i still have not had an answer . the country is moving towards more automation . i am thinking , for example , about the advances that many smes and farmers in my constituency could implement in their companies . unfortunately , in the regions , the internet is far from adequate . when will i be able to tell my constituents that reliable internet service will be available in their homes ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : i assure you that we recognize the importance of the internet in rural regions . i myself represent a rural constituency and it is a challenge every day . we are working with our colleagues , the minister of innovation , science and industry and the minister of rural economic development to speed up the implementation of programs along those lines . the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : we 'll now proceed to mr. motz . mr. glen motz : mr . chair , for the minister of public safety , minister blair , how many times has the list of banned firearms changed since may 1 ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : my understanding is that an order in council was made on may 1 , and we have not made any changes to that order in council . mr. glen motz : that 's untrue . how many more firearms have been added to the original prohibited list since that date ? hon . bill blair : i suspect the member may be referring to the work that the rcmp has been doing through the canadian firearms program in order to apply the order in council that was passed . the chair : before we go to mr. motz , i want to ask all honourable members to ensure that they are on mute . we are getting some voices in the background . mr. motz , please continue . mr. glen motz : how many .22 calibre rifles , firearms , are on that banned list ? hon . bill blair : to be very clear , mr . chair , the banned list includes a number of assault-style rifles , including the ar-15 . the member may be referring to a weapon that the rcmp has identified as using an ar-15 frame , which of course mr. glen motz : again , that is a wrong answer , mr . chair . how many shotguns are now on that banned list ? hon . bill blair : that is a bit of confusion put out by the gun lobby to frighten hunters . in fact , we did not prohibit any shotguns . mr. glen motz : again , that is another untruth , mr . chair . are there any airsoft guns on the prohibited list ? hon . bill blair : that 's another bit of mistruth and deception put out by the gun lobby . in fact , there was a weapon called the blackwater ar-15 , which was a real gun that was prohibited , but the toy gun , the airsoft one , was not . mr. glen motz : that 's untrue . i know some of those exact firearms that are on that list . why is the rcmp continuing to add firearms to the prohibited list after the list was published ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , it is a very important that the rcmp , as the agency responsible for administering the canadian firearms program , continues to do its diligence to keep canadians safe . mr. glen motz : why has there been no notice given to firearms owners , retailers or the police of the many changes to the banned firearms list ? hon . bill blair : again , mr . chair , it is very important that the canadian firearms program and the rcmp continue to do the important work of ensuring that canadians are kept safe . mr. glen motz : how many firearms have been transferred between licensed gun owners and/or retailers since may 1 ? hon . bill blair : again , i do not have that information and , as the member probably knows , records are not kept by the government or by law enforcement about the transfer of firearms that are not restricted . mr. glen motz : how many firearms have been retroactively changed to prohibited since may 1 ? of the firearms that have been transferred , how many now are retroactively prohibited since may 1 ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , to be very clear , on may 1 , by order in council , we prohibited 1,500 somewhat different types of firearms , all based upon a military design . those are the weapons that are prohibited . mr. glen motz : since that time you have added almost 700 more , and none of those meet that category you are trying to establish . if a firearm that was not on the original prohibited list was transferred since may 1 and now that firearm appears on that prohibited list , are those transfers subject to a criminal prosecution ? hon . bill blair : again , the member is asking me a question that is solely the responsibility of the law enforcement agency of jurisdiction , and that is their decision , not ours . mr. glen motz : the minister has said that the issuance of firearm licences and transfers was stopped recently due to a printer failure . we now know that to be completely false . there was no such failure , but an ordered shutdown . who ordered the rcmp to withhold these services from law-abiding canadians ? hon . bill blair : i have absolutely no knowledge of the allegation the member has just made , mr . chair , and so i can not really confirm or deny that it actually ever happened . mr. glen motz : maybe the minister needs to check with his officials and find out who actually did the ordering . what does the minister believe to be the estimated cost of the firearms confiscation plan ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , there was no firearms confiscation plan . we will , however , be bringing legislation forward at the very first opportunity to facilitate a buyback program that will treat canadians who purchased these firearms fairly . mr. glen motz : you ca n't buy back something that you never owned in the first place , mr . chair . these costs must include administration , price per firearm , as well as the industry costs . we know that industry costs are over $ 1 billion . if this minister does n't know the cost , maybe he 's as incompetent as our minister of finance . i am wondering , chair , through you , why the law enforcement notes were removed from the firearms reference table ? the chair : i want to remind the honourable members that parliamentary language is something we need to respect in the house . we should be careful what we say . the honourable minister may reply . hon . bill blair : thank you very much , mr . chair . i 'd just like to advise you and this house that our purpose is to protect the lives of canadians , and we are taking strong action to strengthen gun control . we are not influenced by the gun lobby or by gun manufacturers , only by our interest in keeping canadians safe . the chair : we will now continue to mr. duncan . mr. eric duncan ( stormontdundassouth glengarry , cpc ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . i want to start by thanking the government for listening to my proposals a couple of weeks ago regarding the extension of benefits for vulnerable canadians who may not have been able to file their income tax by this week 's deadline . there are millions of relieved seniors with gis and parents with the child tax benefit and gst who now know they have a bit of time and protection and are n't to be cut off from their benefits . i 'm hoping to go two for two here today , so there 's no pressure to the minister of public safety . i want to build on the comments last week from ms. gladu , my colleague from sarnialambton , about family reunification between canadians and americans . many constituents in my riding are concerned and are caught in this situation . i certainly support , and i think we support in this chamber , the idea of the extension for travel . however , it 's now been three months since many spouses have seen each other , and there are canadian and american children in custody arrangements who have seen their parent only on one side of the border or the other . after stating for months that reunifying families was n't considered essential travel , i am thankful that he and the prime minister have now said that it is . will the minister agree to the safe and fair proposal we outlined in our letter last week , which would exempt spouses , children and those with medical needs travelling back and forth with accompanying documentation , so that we can get people and their families back together ? hon . bill blair : i 'd like to thank the member for what i think is a very important question and i want to assure him that i have had similar conversations with members of this house from all parties and representing all parts of the country . we recognize the challenge that this particular policy of restricting non-essential travel has meant for families . it is not our intention and never will be our intention to separate families . we are working very closely with the cbsa to ensure that individuals are treated fairly . i want to share this with the member and honourable members of this house . any change we make to our arrangement at the border will require a change by an order in council . because there is a great deal of concern in our communities and from our provincial and territorial partners about the movement of people across our border , any change has to be discussed and negotiated with our provincial partners . some of them , you may be aware , have expressed some concern , and we 're addressing those concerns because we respect their concerns . at the same time we are working very hard , and i am very hopeful that we 'll be able to resolve this challenge to the satisfaction of the many canadians you and everyone else represents . the chair : i want to remind the honourable members that when they are asking or answering a question , they should speak through the chair and not directly to the other member . we will go back to mr. duncan . mr. eric duncan : we were looking at each other . it 's a bad habit . to the minister , i appreciate the comments . i will just note that the canadian and american governments have worked with provinces , as we have with the minister of foreign affairs , to repatriate canadians from around the world . there have been quarantine protocols put in place to allow that . there are protocols and there is a precedence . i am just wondering why there is a delay in acknowledging the families part . i believe there is a precedent and i believe there is a background there , and i think we can , through an order in council or whatever measure , get people back with their families . can the minister explain why reunifying families needs to be any different from repatriating canadians from other countries ? hon . bill blair : again i thank the member , because this is a very important issue and it 's important to us as well . we have been working over the past couple of weeks very diligently on trying to find a resolution of this problem , because it is never our intention to separate families and we have all heard some very heart-wrenching concerns that have been raised . at the same time , i think it 's important to work very closely , as we have done , with our provincial and territorial partners to ensure that we address the concerns they have raised . we are prepared to move forward and we are working very hard to resolve the concerns that were raised so that we can have a positive answer to those many families , and we the chair : we will go back to mr. duncan . mr. eric duncan : i appreciate that comment from the minister . i want to share the story of a constituent of mine , mr. david lee , from cornwall . he and his wife maria have been married for a couple of years now . she is an american citizen . they spend about five months of the year in texas and five months in cornwall and would generally travel about two months of the year . however , she could n't come up to canada because of the restrictions that have been put in place , and it 's certainly putting a strain on them . can the minister confirm that the three concerns we outlined in our letter are being discussed as part of reaching a solution or a resolution as soon as possible ? the three concerns are that spouses and long-term partners can be reunited , that children with child custody arrangements can see both of their parents , and that if somebody needs to travel back or forth over the border for medical appointments , they can do that and can stay with their spouse . can you confirm that all three are on the table and will be addressed ? hon . bill blair : what i can confirm is that we 're working hard to make sure we keep families together . i want to reiterate , because you raise a very important point , that when people cross the border they 're still subject to the quarantine orders of public health . that 's for the protection of all canadians . you mentioned travelling back and forth across the border . if the travel is deemed essential , that is an exception , but if it is not deemed essential , then a person must go into quarantine for 14 days . that 's one of the concerns the provinces have raised with us and one of the assurances they have sought . we 're working to provide those assurances . the chair : before we go to the next line of questioning , i want to remind the honourable members that we have interpreters who are working very hard to translate from one language to the other . i therefore ask you to speak a little more slowly out of consideration for the interpreters , who are doing a really good job . we 'll now go to mr. kram . mr. michael kram ( reginawascana , cpc ) : mr . chair , i 've had the opportunity to talk with mr. james bogusz , ceo of the regina airport authority , and he paints a grim picture . he expects the airport to be out of money by the end of the summer . the loss of the regina international airport would be devastating , not only to the city of regina but also to southern saskatchewan . the liberal government has made a great show out of allegedly providing $ 330 million in assistance to airports through lease deferrals , but here is what it 's not telling people : airport lease payments are already tied to revenue and have been for many years , so when an airport 's revenue goes down to zero , its lease payments to the federal government go down to zero , pandemic or no pandemic . that means the government has done absolutely nothing to help canada 's airports . will the government commit today to providing real assistance to canada 's struggling airports ? hon . bill blair : the minister of transport has been working very closely with airports , large and small , right across the country . we have continued to update our responses in this rapidly evolving situation . we 've been in touch with each of the airports , and we 've been working very hard to help them manage through these difficult times . we know that in some circumstances , continued operations at smaller airports have not been possible , but wherever possible we have done our very best to try to accommodate the very real financial challenges these airports are experiencing . mr. michael kram : mr . chair , canada 's airports are teetering on the brink of bankruptcy and the liberal government 's response has been to defer their lease payments . these were already based on revenue , so these deferrals are effectively meaningless . in the meantime , the u.s. government 's cares program is providing $ 10 billion in grants and low-interest forgivable loans to support american airports . will the government commit today to saving canada 's airports with a similar program of grants and forgivable loans ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , we have worked very hard , and continue to do so , to make sure we provide supports to regional airports right across this country . we know how important air transport is to such a vast country and we know the tremendous work they do . they support communities and the canadian economy . we 're going to work very closely with them to make sure we provide the right supports to help them get through this difficult time , because we know how important they will be to the eventual restart of our economy . their continued existence and success are important to that restart , and we 'll work with them . mr. michael kram : mr . chair , the airport crisis goes far beyond my home city of regina . airports are vital to canada 's economy , providing over 200,000 jobs nationwide and paying $ 13 billion in wages and $ 7 billion in taxes . however , now canada 's airports are on the brink of collapse , and the government has stood idly by as airports have lost over 90 % of their revenue . last month joyce carter , chair of the canadian airports council , called on the government for a three-point plan for airport recovery . it includes the permanent elimination of ground leases , substantive loan and bond guarantees and a special plan to support smaller airports that provide vital supplies to rural and remote communities . could the minister inform the committee if the government has done anything in response to the canadian airports council 's request ? hon . bill blair : i would make the observation that all of our smaller regional airports are vital to the communities they serve . that 's why it 's important that we work with them all . the minister of transport is in regular communication and in ongoing discussions with airport authorities , large and small , right across this country on how we can continue to support them . there have been a number of proposals made by the industry itself and by some of the regional airports on what form that help can take . that 's all part of a very important ongoing discussion . i believe it is clear that canadians need our help , and we are there for canadians to help them get back on their feet when we get through this pandemic . the chair : mr. kram , we have time for a 15-second question and a 15-second answer . mr. michael kram : mr . chair , the united states , australia , new zealand and japan have all started free trade negotiations with the united kingdom . why has n't canada ? hon . mary ng ( markhamthornhill , lib . ) : mr . chair , i want to thank the honourable member for the question . we , of course , are going to make sure that we will always act in the interests of canadian businesses , and i want to assure canadians that ceta continues to apply to our trade with the united kingdom . we will make sure that our further work will always take into account the interests of canadian businesses . the chair : we now move to mr.therrien . mr. alain therrien ( la prairie , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . i would like to know how many full-time and part-time employees are currently working for the liberal party of canada . hon . pablo rodriguez ( leader of the government in the house of commons ) : on a point of order , mr.chair . i am not sure that the number of employees at the liberal party , the bloc qubcois , or the conservative party is relevant to government management . the chair : i am not sure whether that is a point of order , but i will let mr.therrien continue . mr. alain therrien : if he stays with me , he will understand . he can trust me . i would like to know how many people work full time and part time for the liberal party of canada . it is a simple question . hon . pablo rodriguez : a number of people do . some hon . members : oh , oh ! mr. alain therrien : mr.chair , i know that they think its funny to pilfer taxpayers money from government coffers . but that is not our style . the liberal party took money through the emergency wage subsidy program . i would just like to know how many people work for the liberal party of canada . hon . bill morneau : i do not know how many people work for the liberal party , but i can say that the emergency wage subsidy is for all sectors of the economy . that is how we can protect employees across the country who are working for businesses facing a reduction in revenue of 30 % or more . mr. alain therrien : they have 157mps and they have known for two weeks that we are working on the wage subsidy . not one member wondered how many people work for them . they are too busy helping themselves to the cookie jar . in an article in la presse on may25 , liberal party spokesman braeden caley said that between 75and 100employees were receiving wages subsidized through this program . is that correct ? hon . bill morneau : i am very focused on our concern , which is to protect canadians across the country who are working for businesses facing a reduction in revenue of 30 % or more . it is very important for them and for our economy . mr. alain therrien : let 's use a round number . let 's say 100employees . how many employees in the liberal party of canada are threatened by the pandemic ? you should know ; it 's your party . the chair : i would like to remind honourable members to direct their questions through the chair . the honourable minister has the floor . hon . bill morneau : thank you , mr.chair . we stand by our approach of protecting employees across the country . we want to make sure that they have enough money to meet the challenges that they are facing during the pandemic . mr. alain therrien : i would actually say that they want to have enough money for their next election campaign . i would like to know how much taxpayers ' money has been taken from the emergency wage subsidy program and will be used as election loot for the liberal party of canada . how much money have you taken from the program ? hon . bill morneau : the emergency wage subsidy program allows us to protect 75 % of the income that employees were earning before the crisis , to a maximum of $ 847 . this is important for them and , of course , very important for our economy . mr. alain therrien : mr.chair , since i am not getting an answer , let me share with you the very simple calculation i cobbled together . one hundred employees at $ 847 a week is $ 340,000a month . that is the amount of taxpayers ' money that the liberal party is putting into its pockets . if we multiply that amount by threethat 's three months , since it started on march15we get over $ 1million . that is the amount they will have put in their pockets , to be used as election loot for the liberal party . given that the liberals are extending the emergency wage subsidy , will their party continue to help itself to the money ? hon . bill morneau : the purpose of the emergency wage subsidy is to protect employees . so every business must ensure that the money goes to the employees . that is very important . it is how employees and their incomes are protected . it will help millions of families across the country to be in a better situation . the chair : mr.therrien , you can ask a question of no more than 15seconds . mr. alain therrien : they have already taken $ 1million out of the register , so that is settled . my question is twofold . first , are they going to pay back that $ 1million ? second , i hope they will not be taking another $ 1million by september . can i at least be reassured of that ? hon . bill morneau : we will continue with our approach to protect employees and businesses needing it during the crisis . the chair : we will take a short break so that our employees can safely change places . we can now continue . we 'll go now to mr. van bynen . mr. tony van bynen ( newmarketaurora , lib . ) : mr . chair , i will be splitting my time with the member for scarborough centre . mr . chair , as parliamentarians , our greatest responsibility is to keep canadians safe . during the previous parliament , our government made significant investments in the cbsa and the rcmp , and provided funds to provinces and territories to invest in programs that combat gun and gang violence and support our communities in providing positive alternatives for youth engagement and activities . on may 1 , our government banned assault-style weapons . this is something that we pledged to do during the last federal election and something that victims ' groups , law enforcement and everyday canadians called on for decades , but we must know that we need to take more action to keep our communities safe . mr . chair , i 'm sure that this continues to be an important issue for many communities . can the minister tell the house and the constituents of newmarketaurora what further steps our government will take to keep canadians safe ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , i 'd like to begin by thanking the honourable member for newmarketaurora for his question and for his advocacy on behalf of the safety of his community . mr . chair , building upon historic investments that we made in the last parliament in law enforcement dealing with guns and gangs , we took the important next step in our promise to strengthen canada 's gun control by prohibiting weapons that many in the law enforcement community , including the ontario association of chiefs of police , have said have no place in our communities . there is much more to do . we will build on these early steps by strengthening our work and our laws at the border , by taking steps to prevent the theft and criminal diversion of guns and also by making significant investments in kids , families and communities where the conditions give rise to gun violence right across canada . mr . chair , we have much work to do , and we are committed to keeping canadians safe . the chair : the next question goes to ms. zahid . mrs. salma zahid ( scarborough centre , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . mr . chair , in cities and towns across canada , small businesses are the backbones of our local economies . they are also pillars of our communities . even during these challenging times , we have seen restaurants and other businesses step up to deliver meals to front-line workers and make donations to our local food banks . so many have supported scarborough health network 's meals on wheels program . their leadership has been inspiring . i have heard from many small business owners in scarborough , from dentists to small manufacturers , who are having trouble paying their commercial rents due to the sharp downturn in business caused by covid-19 . they are interested in how programs like the canada emergency commercial rent assistance program would help them to stay in business , but they worry that these programs may not be able to help if their landlords do n't participate . these small businesses are crucial to our community . could the minister of small business , export promotion and international trade please explain why it is so important that the landlords participate to help small businesses make it through the pandemic and how we are working to make this program a success , not just here in scarborough but across canada ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , i want to thank the member of parliament for her advocacy for the people of scarborough centre on this really important question . while rent is an area of provincial responsibility , helping businesses across the country is all of our responsibility . this is why we have stepped up to provide rent relief to businesses while , at the same time , helping property owners maintain the rental income through this crisis . we are asking property owners to do their part in keeping small businesses and their employees to get through these challenging times , and to take advantage of our forgivable loans in order to help small businesses that are the hardest hit by reducing their rent by 75 % . this is a win-win situation . many landlords have already stepped up , and we salute their efforts . we will continue to do what we can to help protect and help our small businesses across canada from coast to coast to coast . the chair : the next question goes to ms. kwan . ms. jenny kwan ( vancouver east , ndp ) : the $ 4-billion canada housing benefit agreement was announced in 2017 . it 's supposed to provide up to $ 2,500 per year to help families in need with their rent . we know that poverty and inadequate housing are barriers felt even more by black , indigenous and racialized people . can the minister tell us how many families have actually received this housing support ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : mr . chair , i want to thank the honourable member for asking about this really special and unique housing benefit . we introduced the canada housing benefit as part of the national housing strategy to help people as a bridge to permanent housing , people who are in core housing need , are homeless or at risk of homelessness . we have signed agreements with provinces . we hope all of them come to the table to sign this really important cost-sharing the chair : we will go back to ms. kwan . ms. jenny kwan : it has been two and a half years , and families in need are still waiting . only one province has signed on , and there has been no national consultation on how such a benefit program would even be implemented . with so little federal leadership , the canadian alliance of non-profit housing associations has stepped up and done the work for the government . they have outlined five key principles to guide the implementation of the canada housing benefit . will the minister adopt those principles and get on with ensuring vulnerable families get the rental assistance they need ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , it is really unfortunate that the honourable member thinks that an investment of $ 55 billion and the commitment of a 10-year federal plan of leadership in affordable housing and community housing is a lack of leadership . it is quite the opposite . the canada housing benefit is yet another important segment of the national housing strategy , which will ensure people have access to a safe , affordable place to call home . it is being signed by a number of provinces , not just one as the honourable member suggests . there are up to five provinces that have moved on signing on to the canada housing benefit . ms. jenny kwan : then surely the minister can actually tell us how many families benefited from that program . the fact is that two and a half million families are paying more than 30 % of their income on rent , and they have been hit hard by this pandemic . reciting the same message box over and over again will not get them the help they need . aside from going forward with a housing benefit program , will the government prioritize affordable housing stimulus spending as a key component of any post-covid stimulus policy ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , joining with provinces and territories and providing real help to members of the community who are experiencing homelessness so they can have a permanent roof over their heads is real action . it 's real leadership by our government as part of the canada housing benefit . this is a real benefit that is going to households in core housing need , people who experience a core housing need and who need a permanent place to call home . the canada housing benefit is providing real help to thousands and thousands of canadian households . we will continue to provide that leadership in concert with provinces and territories . ms. jenny kwan : well , minister , i would say that b.c . is still looking for the government to step up . we bought our first hotel to house the homeless in permanent housing , and the government has yet to provide any funding to them . the next question is for the minister of immigration . the first migrant worker died yesterday due to covid-19 . migrant workers are warehoused in a space with no barriers between each sleeping cot . others are housed in crowded communal bunkhouses . what action will the minister take to address this alarming situation ? hon . marco mendicino ( minister of immigration , refugees and citizenship ) : i thank my colleague for the question , and i want to extend our sympathies regarding the temporary worker who passed away from covid-19 . of course , we continue to support workers by ensuring that they have the accommodations and the spacing necessary to work when they are here providing food security for all canadians . we 're also providing support to farmers to ensure that those accommodations are made . we put in place the regulations and the rules that are necessary , and we continue to work very closely with our provincial partners as well as leaders in this sector so that we can protect workers and ensure that canadians have access to safe and affordable food . ms. jenny kwan : no one should have to endure such inhumane housing conditions and risk their lives to support their families . we rely on them to put food on the table for our families . they do n't have access to health care and they do n't have a pathway to permanent residence . will the minister do the right thing and grant migrant workers health care coverage and ensure the government follows up on the principle that if you 're good enough to work , you 're good enough to stay ? hon . marco mendicino : in fact , mr . chair , i would clarify that temporary foreign workers do have a pathway to permanent residence . of course , that is an opportunity we will continue to offer those who are ensuring that canadians have access to healthy , safe and affordable food . we will continue to make the investments that are necessary to maintain a high standard of professionalism and workplace safety . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. arnold . mr. mel arnold ( north okanaganshuswap , cpc ) : mr . chair , fisheries and oceans stakeholders and coastal communities face unprecedented threats from the covid-19 crisis , and they deserve the support of all levels of government , including their own mps . yesterday the liberal and ndp mps banded together to restrict the standing committee on fisheries and oceans to just four hours of sitting in the summer months . conservatives are ready to put in the hours to support canadians , while the liberals and ndp refuse to do the work . when will the prime minister tell his mps to get back to work for the canadians who need their support ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , we all agree that committees are doing extremely important work , and that 's why committees are meeting regularly . i would like to remind my colleague that the committees are masters of their own destiny and make their own decisions , not the government . mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , it took months for dfo to realize that fish passage on the fraser river was blocked at big bar . then it took them seven more months to tender a contract to clear the blockage . now that contract has tripled from $ 17.6 million to over $ 52.5 million without a single communications post from the minister 's office . the original contract amount was clearly inadequate , so who ordered it ? hon . bernadette jordan ( south shorest . margarets , lib . ) : mr . chair , since we found out about the landslide at big bar , our government has been extremely active in making sure that the salmon have a passage through . we know how critically important the salmon are to the fraser river , as well as to the indigenous communities along the fraser . we 're working diligently to make sure that we get that passage cleared . so far , we 've made significant progress , but we know there 's more work that needs to be done . that 's why we 'll continue to work with indigenous communities and the province to make sure that these mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , the fisheries minister 's mandate letter from november of last year directed her to make new investments in fighting invasive species . half a year later , the minister has failed to deliver . canadians on the front line of prevention wrote the minister , and when they got a response five months later , it was devoid of any help . this government 's delays are hurting canada 's fight against invasive species . when will the minister follow her prime minister 's directive and make new investments in the fight against invasive species ? hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , i want to thank my hon . colleague for the question . invasive species are a real challenge for our waterways . we know that a lot more has to be done . we 're working diligently to find the answers to deal with some of the problems we are seeing from invasive species . we are continuing to monitor situations in waterways . i am committed to making sure that i meet my commitments within my mandate letter , and i will have more to say on that soon . mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , the list of hunting and sport shooting firearms banned by minister blair 's order in council continues to grow . what other hunting firearms does he plan to ban ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , to be very clear , the weapons we have prohibited are weapons that were not designed for hunting or sport shooting but for soldiers to use in combat . as law enforcement leaders right across the country have said many times , they have no place in our community , and we agree . mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , i continue to hear from constituents in the north okanaganshuswap who are unable to access supports under the canada emergency business account or the emergency commercial rent assistance program . business owners have also lost employees and ca n't get them to come back to work because of the lack of flexibility in the emergency response benefit and the emergency student benefit . when the liberals shut down parliament , they removed our ability to amend legislation and fix their failures . when will the government fix these problems and the programs ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we continue to look at the programs we 've put out to support canadians to make sure that they are actually having the desired impact . as we 've moved along , we have said that we need to make amendments . we 've committed to extending the wage subsidy , and of course we 're looking at all the measures we 've put out so we can ensure that people have the support they need during this crisis . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. viersen . mr. arnold viersen : thank you , mr . chair . mr . chair , an april 1 letter confirms that deloitte canada has been contracted to help supply ppe . was this a sole-source contract ? hon . anita anand ( minister of public services and procurement ) : mr . chair , the honourable member is correct that we have contracted with deloitte to assist us with our operations on the ground in china in order to have an a-to-z procurement approach to delivering goods the chair : we will go back to mr. viersen . mr. arnold viersen : can the minister confirm that this was , indeed , a sole-source contract ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , there are a number of goods that need to be procured for canadian health care professionals to be safe , and that 's exactly the chair : we 'll go to mr. viersen . mr. arnold viersen : yes or no , was this a sole-source contract ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , i will take that question back to my department and come back to the member with a further , fuller response . mr. arnold viersen : mr . chair , is deloitte of canada able to speak on behalf of pspc ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , not at all . the contracts that we are entering into are made by us the chair : we will go back to mr. viersen . mr. arnold viersen : what is the value of the contract with deloitte ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , again , that is information that we are not going to release at this time . when the time is right , we will do so . mr. arnold viersen : many of the suppliers that are in contact with deloitte of canada are indigenous contractors . has the government secured any contracts with indigenous suppliers ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , we are in touch with indigenous suppliers , as we are with many suppliers across canada and internationally . we are working hard to make sure that we have diverse supply chains across the board , and that means including indigenous suppliers in that mix . mr. arnold viersen : many of these indigenous suppliers have previously been vetted by the federal government and are certified vendors . is it appropriate for deloitte to be recertifying these vendors ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , the honourable member appears to have information regarding deloitte 's certification processes , which would not be outside what the government itself is doing . i encourage him to come forward with a question that actually responds to fact before the chair : go ahead , mr. viersen . mr. arnold viersen : does the minister think that re-vetting suppliers is a good use of resources ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , i 'll tell you what i think . i believe that canada is in a crisis , and i am making every effort to order ppe as canadian health care workers require . some hon . members : hear , hear ! mr. arnold viersen : mr . chair , indigenous suppliers stand at the ready to supply ppe to canada . has the minister contracted with any indigenous suppliers ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , we are in touch with indigenous suppliers and will continue to ensure that canada has a diverse supply chain in terms of manufacturers , in terms of products and in terms of countries . that is our commitment to canadian health care workers the chair : now we go back to mr. viersen . mr. arnold viersen : has the government signed a contract with a single indigenous supplier ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , i would like to say that we are continuing to make sure that our supplier list is confidential , because we are in a crisis and we do not want to jeopardize the chair : we go back to mr. viersen . mr. arnold viersen : mr . chair , on friday the association for indigenous business could not name a single indigenous company that had been contracted . have any of the contracts signed with the federal government between deloitte canada and ppe suppliers been filled ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , the member is mistaken . deloitte is not signing contracts on behalf of the government of canada . deloitte is assisting with and sourcing manufacturers , and all contracts are signed by the government with manufacturers . the chair : we will now proceed with mr.paul-hus . mr. pierre paul-hus ( charlesbourghaute-saint-charles , cpc ) : mr.chair , we have difficulty understanding the government 's management of the border . the order between canada and the united states has an exception allowing refugee claimants to submit their claims in canada if they have family here and we accept them . however , hundreds of canadian-american couples can not be reunited , which is a problem . i find it hard to believe that the minister can not quickly instruct border services officers to allow spouses to enter the country right now . hon . bill blair : mr . chair , i appreciate very much the member 's intervention and the long list of people he sent to me . i 'm also working with a number of different families . we remain committed to keeping families together . as i advised this house earlier , mr . chair , we 're working diligently with our provincial and territorial partners to take the steps necessary to enable people to stay united as they cross the borders and enter into canada , but to do so safely and not put other canadians at risk . mr. pierre paul-hus : mr.chair , letting a spouse come home will not put canadians at risk . a survey conducted in canada reveals that a large majority of canadians do not trust the chinese communist regime at all and do not want huawei in canada . the good news today is that bce and telus have decided not to do business with huawei . now that the government no longer has to worry about bce and telus , can they say today that no other company is going to use huawei and that huawei will be banned from canada for 5g ? hon . steven guilbeault : mr.chair , i thank my colleague for his question . our government will always protect our networks and ensure that canadians have access to the latest innovations in telecommunications . a review of 5g technologies and their economic and security considerations is currently under way . we will ensure that canadians ' security and personal information will never be compromised . mr. pierre paul-hus : let me remind the minister that we have been working on this for years and that csis has confirmed that huawei is unreliable as far as canada 's security is concerned . right now , two canadians are being unjustly detained by the chinese communist regime . the same regime continues to lie to the world about covid-19 , block our exports , and terrorize the citizens of hong kong . when will the prime minister confirm that he is going to ban huawei from developing 5g in canada ? it is a simple question . hon . bill blair : mr . chair , let 's be very clear . canadians deserve to have access to the most beneficial 5g technology . at the same time , the safety and security of canada 's digital environment will be of paramount consideration . we 're doing the work required and we 're not basing that agenda on some media report , but instead ensuring that all scientific and security factors are taken into account . we are engaged in robust discussions with our five eyes partners , including the united states , and all our security agencies . mr . chair , we 'll do the work necessary to the chair : mr.paul-hus has the floor . mr. pierre paul-hus : the minister does not need a sheet of paper , this matter has been clear for a long time . everyone is saying that we need to ban huawei from canada . i have a quick question for the minister of finance . bell and telus had each estimated that removing huawei from their development would cost $ 1billion . today we have learned that these companies have decided not to use huawei . did the government decide to pay for this under wraps to get out of it ? having said that , my next question is more about the theft on may27 . about 90,000surgical masks bound for the quebec city uhc were stolen from the toronto airport . as we all know , these masks are critical in the fight against covid-19 . has the minister called for an investigation ? when are we going to find out what happened to those stolen masks that were bound for quebec ? hon . anita anand : mr . chair , i will gladly look into this issue and get back to my colleague . our procurements have reached 101 million surgical masks at this time , and they 're being distributed to provinces , including quebec . the chair : mr.paul-hus , you have time to ask a 15-second question . mr. pierre paul-hus : it is a little strange . the masks were stolen in toronto on may27 . so they have been gone a long time . i just want to know if there is an investigation and if they will ever be found . i want to address another complex and important issue . a police officer from the montreal area called me and told me about a current fraud . some social assistance recipients learned about the cerb and applied for it . building managers have received a lot of cheques addressed to social assistance recipients . they know it is not legal and it constitutes fraud . the police officer is asking me what to do with the cheques and to whom they should be sent . should he give them to the fraudsters ? how does that work ? hon . carla qualtrough ( minister of employment , workforce development and disability inclusion ) : mr . chair , i can assure the member that we have robust mechanisms in place to address cerb fraud . we understand that in delivering this benefit to a million canadians to date , we had to put more of our integrity measures at the back , but make no mistake : canadians who behave fraudulently will be held to account , and we will ensure that the money is either repaid or the cheques not cashed . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. moore . hon . rob moore ( fundy royal , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . mr . chair , there remains a concern across canada that delays in the criminal courts could result in criminals walking free . the chief justice of the supreme court recently said in an interview that amendments to the criminal code could allow this backlog to be addressed . can the minister outline what work has been done to address the backlog , and when we can expect to see it addressed ? hon . david lametti ( minister of justice and attorney general of canada ) : mr . chair , i thank the honourable member for his question . i can assure him that we are working closely with our provincial and territorial counterparts , who have the primary responsible for the superior courts of justice and therefore the criminal law in their various jurisdictions for the administration of justice in criminal law . i can also say that we have formed an action committee co-chaired by me and the chief justice of canada , again with a variety of different kinds of representation on that committee , to look at the restart of the justice system the chair : we 'll go back to mr. moore . hon . rob moore : mr . chair , weeks ago i raised these concerns with the minister over backlogs in the criminal courts and the risk they present to our justice system . the provinces have significant insight into how this can be addressed , and many provinces have been proactive with their court backlogs . can the minister outline what work has been done with the provinces on this important issue ? hon . david lametti : we are working with the provinces . there are different practices in each province . we 're working to serve in a coordinating role as a repository of information for best practices so that they can be shared across provinces . we 're also looking at specific suggestions that provinces have made with respect to reforming the criminal law . hon . rob moore : many owners of small businesses in my riding , and indeed in all of our ridings , are suffering right now and have received absolutely no help from this government because of technicalities . two weeks ago , the prime minister indicated the government was looking to expand access to the canada emergency business account to include to those who operate their businesses out of a personal bank account . this is something that we 've been calling for over the past several weeks , and businesses can not wait any longer . can the minister tell me what we should be telling our constituents about those who are caught up based on a technicality and are not able to access this important measure ? hon . mary ng : thank you , mr . chair . i want to thank the honourable member for that really important question . i want to assure the small business owners in his community and all across the country just how important they are and how difficult a time this is for them . we absolutely understand . we are hearing you and we are working as hard and as fast as we can to make sure that those business owners get access to this very important support . i would like to highlight , though , that owners of 650,000 small businesses across the country are getting the loan support . of course , there is more to do , and we will keep working hard for those business owners . hon . rob moore : the lack of access to high-speed internet remains a major issue across my home province of new brunswick . this is a significant barrier to rural economic development . it impacts the quality of life of rural constituents . the lack of progress and transparency on rural internet is frustrating for residents , for municipal leaders and for small business owners who are already suffering due to covid . when will a new plan for rural internet be introduced , and how quickly can we expect it to be deployed ? hon . maryam monsef : mr . chair , our government has a plan to connect canadians to high-speed internet . to date , we 've set aside investments to connect a million households , and there 's more work to be done . we will be announcing our next steps to connect more canadians through the universal broadband funds in the days to come . i look forward to communities across the country benefiting from federal investments and the private investments that our investments will bring . hon . rob moore : on the issue of commercial rent , how is the government going to ensure that business owners whose landlords still refuse to participate in the government 's program receive the support that they need to stay open at this time ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , as the member knows and would understand , rent between small business owners and landlords is a provincial jurisdiction . that said , we 've moved forward to try to ensure that there 's a process so that those landlords and the commercial tenants can work together to come up with a solution that will work for both . we 're seeing landlords the chair : we 'll now go to ms. atwin . mrs. jenica atwin ( fredericton , gp ) : thank you , mr . chair . george floyd , ahmaud arbery , nicholas gibbs , colten boushie , tina fontaine , alain magloire and breonna taylor were not all born on the same side of the border , but they all lost their lives at the hand of the same cruel enemy : racism . we can not , here in canada , think higher of ourselves when we are reading the headlines of our neighbour . we can not ignore our history , past or present . the final report from the national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls stated that indigenous women and girls have faced a canadian genocide . in 2018 a report revealed that a black person was almost 20 times more likely than a white person to be fatally shot by the toronto police , and a 2019 report exposed systemic bias among the montreal police force against black and indigenous people . black lives matter . indigenous lives matter . i am asking the minister of diversity and inclusion and youth , as per her mandate , what exactly our government intends to do now to fight racism among its institutions . if the anti-racism secretariat has in fact been established , what priorities have been actioned ? hon . bardish chagger ( minister of diversity and inclusion and youth ) : i would like to thank the member for that very important question . i will state that it is essential that we all work together , not only during this challenging time but during the times that come out of it . on the comments that were shared earlier , this is another life lost that should not have been lost . yes , the anti-racism secretariat has been established . this is a resource not only for canadians but also for government agencies to better the way in which we do work internally as well , including advancement opportunities . we know that the decision-making table does not reflect the diversity of our country . that 's exactly why we came out with an open , transparent , merit-based appointment process : so that we can see the country 's diversity reflected at the decision-making table . there is a lot more work to do . i can assure the member and all canadians that my eyes are open , my ears are open and i am an ally . i will work as hard as possible to be that voice at the cabinet table . i can not experience what it is to be a black canadian , but i can tell you that your voices will be represented and they will be heard . i see you . mrs. jenica atwin : mr . chair , it has been four years since the settlement payment for sixties scoop survivors was approved . that resolution has n't taken place . the pain continues . why is it that the 12,500 class members who have been determined eligible still have n't received the payments they are owed ? these people deserve justice without any delay , especially in light of covid-19 and the added pressures facing communities . can the minister confirm exactly when these survivors will receive the interim payment ? hon . carolyn bennett : thank you very much . thank you for your advocacy on all these truly important things . as you know , because of the exceptional circumstance of covid-19 , the class counsel , with the support of canada , was seeking direction from the courts to issue partial payments to the class members with a valid claim . on june 1 the federal court granted that order . a similar motion is before the ontario superior court . once granted , eligible class members can expect to receive partial payments of $ 21,000 over the coming weeks . canada welcomes the federal court 's the chair : we 'll now go back to ms. atwin . mrs. jenica atwin : thank you , mr . chair . eighty per cent of people who are diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , or als , will die within two to five years of receiving the diagnosis . the pandemic has made it more difficult than ever for these people to access medical appointments and treatment . they do not have the luxury of time . they want to live and to share moments with their families and their loved ones . the lack of urgency to approve new trials and therapies in canada directly impacts the life expectancy of people with als . can the minister of health commit to taking leadership on this file , removing the barriers to accessing these promising treatments and therapies , and ensuring that the costs of these treatments will be covered ? hon . patty hajdu : thank you very much for the very important question . we know that people living with als and their families struggle immensely every single day . of course the member opposite has my commitment to work with the community and with manufacturers of drugs that are promising for als to expedite approval in a safe way that protects the health of canadians but also provides treatment in an affordable way for all canadians . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. green . mr. matthew green ( hamilton centre , ndp ) : mr . chair , i ca n't breathe and i 'm tired , and today we 've heard a lot of progressive words from the prime minister , but he has n't really said anything . if the prime minister will not provide leadership in this house , will anybody from his cabinet here today commit to taking concrete steps to address anti-black racism ? hon . bardish chagger : mr . chair , yes , we do commit . that 's exactly why we will listen more . we will acknowledge that racism is alive in canada . we know we must do better . however , i also need the member to recognize that this work has started . the open , transparent , merit-based appointment process is resulting in the decision-making table better reflecting canadians . we recognize the un international the chair : we will go back to mr. green . mr. matthew green : mr . chair , will the member then commit today to make it a legal requirement to collect race-based data across all the ministries ? hon . bardish chagger : mr . chair , the recently announced immunity task force is providing disaggregated data to decision-makers , because decisions need to be based on science and evidence . yes , i will work across all departments to ensure that data is better collected . mr. matthew green : mr . chair , that 's not a legal requirement . it is also not lost on the black community that the former toronto chief of police , the architect of this country 's largest profiling program under the guise of street checks or carding , was made this country 's minister of public safety by this prime minister . as the tragic consequence of the unlawful , unconstitutional and racist practices in toronto , black people are 20 times more likely than non-black people to be murdered by police . does the minister of public safety now admit that the police practice of street checks and carding is in fact a significant factor in canada 's systemic anti-black and anti-indigenous racism , and will he act to immediately end it today ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , let me be very clear . first of all , every canadian is entitled to bias-free and culturally competent policing . i know from experience that there is nothing more corrosive to the relationship of trust that must exist between the police and racialized communities than the issue of racism or the biased influences of those decisions . mr . chair , racial profiling is not only abhorrent and unacceptable , it 's in fact unlawful . it 's contrary to the charter of rights and freedoms and it 's contrary to the canadian human rights act . we are working diligently within all of the federal agencies under my purview to ensure that all officers receive training on culturally competent and bias-free delivery of service . we remain committed to creating a diverse workforce that truly reflects and respects the diverse people of this country . mr. matthew green : nobody knows better through experience about the corrosive practice of street checks than i do . will the minister now apologize to the black community for the harm caused under his tenure as chief of police ? hon . bill blair : just to be very clear , mr . chair , i actually worked with the diverse communities of toronto for nearly four decades . i worked with extraordinary leaders from the black community and i learned extensively from their lived experience . we worked tirelessly to ensure the safety of all of the people in all of our diverse communities . mr. matthew green : bill c-51 was introduced by the conservatives and supported by the liberals , including this prime minister . it declared indigenous , racial , economic justice , and environmental activists as domestic terrorists . each province was mandated to enact anti-terrorism protocols , which became a direction for the local police to engage in the practice of street checks or racial profiling . given what he has said today in the house , will this minister of public safety work to repeal the changes made under bill c-51 ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , i will repeat for the member opposite that racial profiling and bias in the delivery of policing service is not only unacceptable and abhorrent but unlawful . it 's contrary to the charter of rights and freedoms ; it is contrary to the canadian human rights act . it can not ever be tolerated in policing in any place in canada , but we learned from the lived experience of black and indigenous communities , who tell us that this is still their lived experience , so there is a great deal of work left to do . the chair : it is now mr.champoux 's turn . mr.champoux , you have the floor . mr. martin champoux ( drummond , bq ) : mr.chair , i will be sharing my time with the honourable member for joliette . supplementary unemployment benefits , or subs , give employers the opportunity to enhance their employees ' employment insurance benefits when they need to temporarily lay them off . a number of companies , including soprema in drummond , have done so with the guarantee that the government would maintain the sub terms when employment insurance is converted to the cerb . however , surprise , surprise , when the employees applied for the cerb in may , they found that they did not meet the criteria because the amount of subs they have received exceeded $ 1,000 , the cerb income limit . in addition , they must reimburse the cerb because they found that they were not eligible for it . so , what does the minister of finance intend to do to correct his error ? the chair : we will pause for a second . we have a point of order on the floor . go ahead , mr. green . mr. matthew green : i posed the most important question . i had 10 seconds left by my count on my time before i was cut off , and i would appreciate , given the seriousness of the conversation here today , if the honourable minister of public safety will please answer the question : will he apologize to the black community for the irreparable harm that was caused by the racist process of street checks and carding ? the chair : the way i work it is that if there are 15 seconds or less , we go on to the next one , because it 's not really enough time to ask a question and get an answer . i will move on to mr. champoux . he did ask a question , and we 'll let ms. qualtrough , the honourable minister , answer . hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , sub plans that existed prior to march 15 are very much alive and in place for companies , employers and their employees . the cerb allows employers to top up an employee 's wages to the maximum of a $ 1,000 . as was said , mr . chair , in order to deliver this important critical benefit to canadians , we had to go outside of the ei system . that decision was made , and as a result , eight million canadians are being helped . mr. martin champoux : mr.chair , subs do not have an employment insurance cap . employers can contribute as much as they want , and they were assured that this would be the case with the cerb . otherwise , they would have opted for another program . let me put my question to the minister of finance again , in the hope that he will be the one to answer it . when does he intend to fix this error ? hon . carla qualtrough : i thank the member for his question , mr . chair . as we can all appreciate , delivering a benefit of this magnitude as quickly as possible to as many canadians as possible , both those who were ei eligible and those who were outside of ei , resulted in our having to take some decisions to streamline processes and the system . sub plans are available for employers the chair : mr.ste-marie , you have the floor . mr. gabriel ste-marie ( joliette , bq ) : mr.chair , i will continue on the subject of supplementary unemployment benefits . let me remind everyone that service canada has entered into agreements with companies and is not honouring them . the victims are thousands and thousands of workers who have to reimburse the canada emergency response benefit , as my colleague just explained . i also have the question my colleague from drummond asked : why is the government not doing the same thing it does with employment insurance and not counting the benefits paid out as part of earned income ? it is simple . hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , as legislated , we needed to set up a straightforward , simple benefit to deliver to as many people as possible . the nuance and sophistication of the ei system was not available to us . as a result , as i said , eight million canadians are getting the cerb . service canada is working with each and every employee who is in a repayment situation . we do not want to put anybody in a more difficult situation . mr. gabriel ste-marie : mr.chair , the truth is that the government has forgotten the thousands of workers covered under a supplementary unemployment benefit agreement . we are talking about mothers and fathers . when the government rolled out its canada emergency response benefit , it was overwhelmed and it forgot about them . the government can fix it right here , right now . does it want to do that ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , let me clarify that employees who were covered by a sub plan prior to march 15 are indeed covered by that plan . we 're working with employers to make sure that their workers have this benefit , regardless of whether or not the cerb is in place . those who accessed ei after march 15 have been streamlined into the cerb process , and their employers can help them with up to $ 1,000 a month . mr. gabriel ste-marie : mr.chair , we really do not have the same information . agreements were signed before march15 for subsequent periods , but there was an agreement with service canada . companies have tried to contact service canada by telephone , but no one is answering . they have tried by email , but no one is replying either . the companies have decided to honour their part of the contract and pay out the sub . however , the government says that , after the fact , it changed the rules that had previously applied , and it is no longer honouring its agreement . as i understand it , the government does not want to straighten out the situation , and that is unacceptable . hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , i want to reassure the honourable member that we have moved quickly to deal with the unprecedented volumes at service canada . we have set up a 1,500-agent call centre to help people through the cerb , as well as redeploying 3,000 additional staff to make sure that people are helped through the ei process . the chair : now we 'll go to the next question , which is from mr. redekopp . mr. brad redekopp ( saskatoon west , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . as of december 31 , 2019 , the total number of pending veterans ' disability benefits applications had already grown to over 46,000 . these are the most recent public figures . what is the current total number of pending veterans ' disability benefits applications before veterans affairs ? hon . lawrence macaulay ( minister of veterans affairs ) : i am sorry , mr . chair . mr . chair , i thank my honourable colleague for the question and for giving me the opportunity to respond to the parliament of canada from my home in midgell . as i indicated earlier in the house of commons , i can assure the member that one of my major priorities is to make sure that we deal with the backlog and that the veterans of canada receive the benefits they truly deserve and need . mr. brad redekopp : those 46,000 applications from december of 2019 represent over 30,000 individual veterans . these are men and women who are suffering . how many individual veterans are currently caught in the backlog ? hon . lawrence macaulay : i again thank my colleague . the fact is that service delivery and providing support to our veterans are of course my top priorities . as you understand , with this pandemic there are some difficulties , but we are processing the same number of decisions daily . our the chair : we will go back to mr. redekopp . mr. brad redekopp : on march 10 , we learned that the average time that a veteran was waiting to have their disability benefit application processed had grown to 32 weeks . what is the current average time a veteran is waiting to have their disability benefit application processed ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , as i indicated , what we 're doing is working to make sure that we streamline the process , make sure that some of the applications can be done automatically . some can not , because we have to make sure that what 's provided to the veteran is adequate for the disability they the chair : we will go back to mr. redekopp . mr. brad redekopp : it seems as though having numbers is a difficult challenge for this government . on march 10 , the deputy minister of veterans affairs committed to providing the veterans affairs committee with an updated , written plan on how the department will resolve this backlog . this plan was to include timelines . when will the veterans affairs committee be provided with this plan ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i can assure my honourable colleague that of course the veterans affairs committee does vitally important work . i know how important this piece of information is for them . my department is now working to make sure that the report itself reflects the reality we now face with the situation in the country . i can assure my honourable colleague the chair : we 'll go to mr. redekopp . mr. brad redekopp : mr . chair , i 'm sure that the department had a draft plan prior to covid-19 , so i wonder if mr. macaulay can provide the committee with that plan right now , rather than wait . hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , i can assure my honourable colleague that we are working diligently to make sure that this report is prepared , and prepared properly , for the committee . as i said before , i fully understand the importance of the committee and the great work it does the chair : we 'll go back to mr. redekopp . mr. brad redekopp : can the minister give us a timeline of when this report will be given to the committee ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , it 's difficult to give a timeline . i want to make sure that the report itself reflects the reality of the situation to make sure that the committee the chair : we 'll go back to mr. redekopp . mr. brad redekopp : the minister 's mandate letter instructed mr. macaulay to implement a system of automatic approval for the most common disability applications . when will this system be implemented ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , of course this all ties in to the report that the veterans affairs committee is waiting for and to make sure that we 're in place in order to make sure that the automatic approval can work and to make sure that veterans receive the proper the chair : we 'll go back to mr. redekopp . mr. brad redekopp : if automatic approval is implemented , does the minister know how many applications this measure will remove from the backlog ? hon . lawrence macaulay : mr . chair , it will remove a number from the backlog , because quite simply , if you 're skydiving out of a plane , you 're going to have knee problems , and if you 're a gunner , you 're going to have ear problems . these things should be done automatically , and that 's exactly what we 're working on . as i said before , other things are complicated . to make sure that the veteran receives the appropriate remuneration </s>
<s> which condolences were shared ? </s> mr. patrick weiler ( west vancouversunshine coastsea to sky country , lib . ) : mr . chair , i continue to be amazed by how the communities throughout my riding have stepped up to support our most vulnerable at our time of crisis . in many ways it has brought our communities closer together even while we stay physically distant . nowhere is this more true than on the sunshine coast . dedicated individuals immediately and organically mobilized the sunshine coast community task force to coordinate local government , non-profit and business efforts to provide critical services to the community . social enterprises banded together to form the sunshine coast food service response , which provides ready-made meals and donates to food banks . persephone brewing and others deliver groceries to at-risk customers both on the coast and on isolated islands . the 101 brewhouse + distillery and bruinwood distillery quickly retooled their business to supply much-needed hand sanitizer to local hospitals and other front-line workers . covid-19 , like all crises , has highlighted true leadership in our society , and i am grateful for what they and all of our health care workers do every day to get us through this . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for medicine hatcardstonwarner , mr. motz . mr. glen motz ( medicine hatcardstonwarner , cpc ) : mr . chair , the prime minister and his cabinet have shown they 're unwilling to put the protection and safety of canadians ahead of political interests . they themselves are the greatest source of disinformation in this country . the prime minister told canadians that they can buy a gun without a licence . either purposely or because of ignorance , he left out the fact that doing so is a criminal offence with a five-year prison sentence . the minister of public safety said he would n't target hunters , but then he went ahead and banned numerous bolt-action hunting rifles and made owning a shotgun a criminal offence . they have weakened the ability to protect our borders . they have ignored our rampant drug crisis , and they have weakened sentences for serious crimes , all while saying they take these issues very seriously . today they tell us they are banning a new liberal-invented type of firearm , a military-style assault rifle . it 's time to be honest with canadians . the liberals would rather make people afraid of hunters , farmers and sport shooters than deal with the real issues like drugs , gangs , illegal smuggling and crime . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to ms. sgro , the hon . member for humber riverblack creek . hon . judy a. sgro ( humber riverblack creek , lib . ) : mr . chair , it is in our most difficult moments when we truly see stunning displays of human spirit and generosity . on that note , today i wish to recognize the work of the humber river hospital in my riding of humber riverblack creek and to congratulate them on the success of their humber front-line support fund and ppe drive . not only have they been on the front lines of the covid-19 pandemic keeping our residents safe and healthy , but thanks to the generosity of those both in my riding and beyond , the humber river hospital has raised over $ 1 million and received over 400,000 pieces of personal protective equipment . this will be invaluable to the hospital as they continue to work with us and fight the good fight to keep us all healthy . i thank all those brave workers at the hospital , and i thank those generous individuals who have donated to this important cause . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : i now invite the hon . member for abitibitmiscamingue , mr.lemire , to take the floor . mr. sbastien lemire ( abitibitmiscamingue , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . i am honoured to speak to you about a proud warrior . stephanlavoie had made the choice to say thank you to life . for several years , he had been using his fight against cancer , which he led with the help of natural products only , to ensure cancer services and care were improved , particularly in regions far from major centres . mayor of preissac , in the rcm of abitibi , stephanlavoie passed away yesterday . i would like to extend my condolences to his wife , anabelle , to his entire family and especially to his daughter , astrid , who is only 20months old . through his humanism , stephanlavoie was a warrior , a visionary and a great source of inspiration for all of us . to me , he was above all the perfect model of a committed and loving father . my thoughts also go out to the citizens of preissac , to whom he leaves a dynamic legacy , and to the leaders of the abitibi community . in our first conversation , he said to me , and i hope the house will echo it forever , that all of our decisions must be made with our children in mind . stephan , rest in peace , dear friend . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for montroyal , mr.housefather , has the floor . mr. anthony housefather ( mount royal , lib . ) : it is with great sadness that i rise today to pay tribute to tristan roy , after his tragic passing exactly two weeks ago . born in saint-fabien-sur-mer , tristan became a pillar of the montroyal community in1997 when he bought the old montroyal newspaper . when the city 's oldest newspaper , the tmr weekly post ceased operations , tristan registered the name and renamed his newspaper the tmr poste de mont-royal . he created a truly bilingual newspaper , ensuring that tmr residents could receive their news in both french and english . his editorials and views on local issues carried enormous weight . i join mayor philippe roy and the members of the town council in offering our sincere condolences to tristan 's wife , anne-marie , his daughter , aril , and his son , lancelot . we all considered tristan to be a friend , an example of what a good journalist and editor should be and could be . he will be sorely missed . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the hon . member for beauce , mr.lehoux , has the floor . </s>
<s> what were the accusations levied against the liberals ? </s> the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for wellingtonhalton hills , mr. chong . hon . michael chong ( wellingtonhalton hills , cpc ) : mr . chair , the house of commons is shut down . let 's be clear . this is not the house of commons . it 's a committee where only statements , petitions and questions are allowed . there is no power to introduce motions , to test confidence or to vote . the government came to office promising greater democracy but they broke their promise on electoral reform . they tried to give the pmo the control over this house in motion 6 , and yesterday 's report confirms that they rigged the leaders debate in their favour in the last election . now they 've shuttered parliament . parliament sat through two world wars , the october crisis and previous pandemics and it survived the test , but not now . the people 's representatives need to sit . people need their representation . parliament and this house of commons with its full powers needs to reopen and it needs to reopen now . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable member for reginaqu'appelle . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , these past few months have been tremendously difficult for so many canadians : sickness , losing loved ones , job losses , economic hardships , loneliness and isolation . the pandemic has taken its toll on so many . it is in these times of suffering and adversity that we have seen canadians coming together to support each other and that brings us hope . mosques , churches , synagogues and gurdwaras have all answered the call to help their communities . whether it 's providing meals to the hungry , clothing for the cold , or technology for those who need it most , these actions are true reflections of the kindness and generosity that canadians are known for . while there are too many groups to mention them all , i want to thank vikas sharma and care4cause out of brampton for the meals that they have been providing their community in that area and across the gta . this group and thousands of others like it across the country are working tirelessly to ease the suffering of others and help those in need . thank you , and god bless all the volunteers . </s>
<s> which groups were thanked for their efforts ? </s> ms. yasmin ratansi ( don valley east , lib . ) : mr . chair , our government has shown leadership during the covid-19 pandemic by ensuring that canadians remain safe and get the financial assistance they need . eight million canadians are receiving the canada emergency response benefit . the canada emergency business account and the canada emergency wage subsidy ensure that the economy is ready to start up post-pandemic . seniors received top-ups to the oas and gis , and families , the child care benefit . all of these measures are helping thousands of seniors and low-income families in my riding of don valley east . the feedback from my regular virtual town halls has also helped to fine-tune many of the programs . many canadians have shown generosity during this crisis . i want to particularly thank saravanaa bhavan and happy pops for donating food and frozen treats to our superhero front-line workers at local hospitals . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for vaughanwoodbridge , mr. sorbara . mr. francesco sorbara ( vaughanwoodbridge , lib . ) : mr . chair , even though this year 's festivities for italian heritage month will be done differently , the same spirit and vitality exists throughout virtual events happening across the country . virtual events have seen italian canadians , through their generosity , raise over $ 1 million to help italy during covid-19 . today , june 2 , italian citizens celebrate the founding of the modern day italian republic . the italian canadian story remains one of passion , an adopted homeland filled with hard work , sacrifice and optimism . generations of italian canadians have contributed much to shaping the inclusive and generous canada that we know today . our diversity is our strength , and i 'm proud to be italian canadian . let 's all join together in proudly celebrating italian heritage month . thank you , mr . chair . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for calgary skyview , ms. sahota . ms. jag sahota ( calgary skyview , cpc ) : mr . chair , as communities begin to ease restrictions , i remain mystified that , according to this government , parliament is not an essential service . if it were up to the prime minister , he would not have to answer to anyone . that is not how democracy works . we in the opposition have been long calling for the return of parliament , which would be possible while still maintaining public health guidelines . canadians deserve to be represented in the house of commons by the elected member of parliament . while the work we do in our constituencies is incredibly important , it is equally important to bring those voices back to ottawa to debate , to question and to hold the government to account . this is fundamental to the role of an elected representative . the role of the opposition is crucial now more than ever when billions of dollars are being spent with little oversight . our role as members of parliament is to uphold our democracy and to be present . this is the greatest pandemic in our lifetime . now is not the time to hide behind a podium . if this government were doing the best job for canadians , they would not need to hide . thank you . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for brampton east , mr. sidhu . mr. maninder sidhu ( brampton east , lib . ) : mr . chair , i would like to take a moment to highlight displays of generosity in my riding of brampton east . this is just a small sample of the many individuals and organizations that have stepped up across canada . khalsa aid has been providing food supplies with the help of sperenza banquet hall , which has graciously provided the space to run a province-wide campaign out of brampton east . care4cause has sent hundreds of prepared meals on a weekly basis to good shepherd ministries to lessen their load . navraj brar at pharmasave has offered free care packages to health care workers and hand sanitizer to the peel regional police . aujla salon and spa has partnered with globalmedic to help deliver over 10,000 pounds of food to local food banks . i would also like to point out the heroic efforts of our truck drivers , taxi drivers , grocery store clerks , nurses , doctors , paramedics and countless other front-line heroes . we see you and we are immensely grateful for the bravery you display each and every day . thank you to everyone in brampton east who has stepped up for their neighbour in their time of need . you are setting a great example of the kind of progress we can make as canadians when we come together and support each other . i am truly honoured to represent you in ottawa . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to the honourable member for wellingtonhalton hills , mr. chong . hon . michael chong ( wellingtonhalton hills , cpc ) : mr . chair , the house of commons is shut down . let 's be clear . this is not the house of commons . it 's a committee where only statements , petitions and questions are allowed . there is no power to introduce motions , to test confidence or to vote . the government came to office promising greater democracy but they broke their promise on electoral reform . they tried to give the pmo the control over this house in motion 6 , and yesterday 's report confirms that they rigged the leaders debate in their favour in the last election . now they 've shuttered parliament . parliament sat through two world wars , the october crisis and previous pandemics and it survived the test , but not now . the people 's representatives need to sit . people need their representation . parliament and this house of commons with its full powers needs to reopen and it needs to reopen now . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable member for reginaqu'appelle . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , these past few months have been tremendously difficult for so many canadians : sickness , losing loved ones , job losses , economic hardships , loneliness and isolation . the pandemic has taken its toll on so many . it is in these times of suffering and adversity that we have seen canadians coming together to support each other and that brings us hope . mosques , churches , synagogues and gurdwaras have all answered the call to help their communities . whether it 's providing meals to the hungry , clothing for the cold , or technology for those who need it most , these actions are true reflections of the kindness and generosity that canadians are known for . while there are too many groups to mention them all , i want to thank vikas sharma and care4cause out of brampton for the meals that they have been providing their community in that area and across the gta . this group and thousands of others like it across the country are working tirelessly to ease the suffering of others and help those in need . thank you , and god bless all the volunteers . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : now we will go to the honourable member for winnipeg centre . ms. gazan , go ahead . </s>
<s> what issues did canadian farmers face ? </s> mr. terry duguid ( winnipeg south , lib . ) : mr . chair , today i want to give a special thank you to the health care workers at victoria general hospital , who are serving patients in our community here in winnipeg south . every day , doctors , nurses and staff work selflessly to take care of those in our community who need it most . whether it 's by keeping seniors connected with their families by using ipads or making sure that patients go home with a special care package , staff at the vic are doing extraordinary work to make this difficult time just a little bit easier . i would also like to give a big shout-out to our wonderful small businesses in winnipeg south that continue to show their appreciation by preparing meals for the hard-working staff at the vic . folks in our community continue to show what it means to be exemplary canadians , and it is a great honour to represent them . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : this concludes the period for statements by members . we will now proceed to the questioning of ministers . the honourable leader of the opposition . hon . andrew scheer : mr.chair , the staff of long-term care facilities for seniors are showing exceptional courage and dedication . franoislegault asked that the military personnel currently helping in facilities in quebec stay until the fall . the prime minister said no . i 'd like to hear the prime minister tell us why they ca n't stay . right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , like all canadians , i am deeply grateful for the extraordinary work that the canadian armed forces are doing in long-term care facilities in quebec and ontario . thanks to their reports , we 've seen that the situation was even worse than we feared . the work our military is doing is extraordinary . we will continue to support them , but we know that having military personnel in our long-term care facilities is n't a long-term solution . therefore , we are going to work with quebec to find better long-term solutions . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , now that bell canada has decided to partner with ericsson to deliver its 5g network , the liberals will undoubtedly ban huawei , but the liberal inaction on huawei is just another example of this government 's weak leadership . instead of deciding for himself a year ago , the prime minister is forcing the business community to make the decision for him . why could n't the prime minister have shown some backbone and banned huawei a year ago ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , our approach every step of the way has been to listen to experts , to work with allies and to listen to the counsel of our security and intelligence community , which has been looking into this issue . we know we need to make sure that canadian businesses , canadians and canadian infrastructure are protected at the same time as we remain competitive in the world . that has guided our approach on this from the beginning . hon . andrew scheer : the fact of the matter , mr chair , is that it has n't . the former public safety minister , ralph goodale , promised in this house over a year ago that an answer on huawei would be coming . here we are , it 's june 2 , 2020 , and they still have n't made a decision . on another topic , mr . chair , the president of the treasury board wrote to cabinet last week and said that transparency is important even in a time of crisis . i guess the minister of infrastructure did n't get that letter . she 's refusing to tell us how much of a bonus she gave to the departing head of the canada infrastructure bank . at a time when canadians are struggling , it is disgusting that the liberals are paying out bonuses to someone who accomplished nothing . will the prime minister have a little respect for taxpayers and tell us exactly how much of a bonus the ceo of the canada infrastructure bank received ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , the mandate of the canada infrastructure bank is to find innovative ways to finance some of canada 's biggest infrastructure projects by leveraging private capital . the remuneration range of the former ceo has been in the public domain for more than two years . the opposition is looking backward . we 're moving forward . the bank is moving into its next phase of development , now under the leadership of the new board chair , michael sabia , and will play an important role in the recovery when the time comes . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , only to a liberal would an innovative approach to building infrastructure mean building absolutely nothing . the ceo of an infrastructure bank who accomplished zero completed infrastructure projects should not be receiving a bonus . i did n't ask a question about the remuneration . i did n't ask a question about the salary . this individual received a bonus . how much was that bonus ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , as i said , the remuneration range of this former ceo has been in the public domain for more than two years . in regard to further payments , we do not comment on personal hr and financial information of individuals in government . </s>
<s> what was said on women issues ? </s> hon . bill morneau ( minister of finance ) : mr . chair , we continue to manage our fiscal situation in a responsible manner , and we 'll continue to do that . hon . pierre poilievre : how much does the government of canada owe to the people 's republic of china ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we would be happy to provide information . if the member would like to send my office questions directly , i 'd be happy to provide this information . hon . pierre poilievre : it turns out i did a week ago . they still have n't provided answers to the questions , in particular the question regarding who owns canada 's foreign-held debt . we know that roughly a third of our debt is owned by foreigners . how much of that debt is owned by lenders from the people 's republic of china ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , as i said , we 'd be happy to reply to these questions directly . we 'll do so . we 'll get to it in order , as we work through this crisis , making sure we focus on canadians first . hon . pierre poilievre : how much is owned by lenders from saudi arabia ? hon . bill morneau : again , mr . chair , we 'd be happy to provide information in this regard should the member wish to send a request directly to my office . hon . pierre poilievre : which i have . mr . chair , moving along to the impacts of the debt on our people , how much would a 1 % increase in the effective interest rate on canada 's national debt cost canadian taxpayers ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we continue to manage our treasury function responsibly . i 'd be happy to get financial calculations to the member if he 'd like to send those directly to my office . hon . pierre poilievre : all right , mr . chair , we 'll try a different question , then , as we 're not getting any answers . we have lower interest rates than ever before . normally , it means you lock in those rates for the long run . anybody who has a mortgage knows you lock in for the long run when rates are low . what percentage of canada 's national debt is locked in for more than five years ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , i 'd be happy to get this information to the member , but i would acknowledge that as we manage the treasury function for the government of canada , we look at the short term , the medium term and the long term . we think we have come up with a responsible approach to managing the ongoing debt that we have as a country . hon . pierre poilievre : mr . chair , it turns out , according to department of finance officials , that less than 3 % of canada 's recently added debt since march is for terms of more than five years . why has this minister made canada so susceptible to future interest rate hikes by failing to lock in the $ 371.5 billion of new debt he 's added in the last two and a half months ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we continue to manage the treasury function of the government of canada in a responsible way , making sure we consider what debt should be issued in a short term , a medium term and a long term , which we 've been doing as the government of canada during our entire term and as previous governments have done as well . hon . pierre poilievre : canadians would be wise not to hire this minister as their mortgage broker if they 're looking to get the best rate . let 's move on to the canadian household . the average household was $ 200 away from insolvency before this crisis began . how many canadians would experience bankruptcy in the next 12 months if interest rates were to rise by an effective one percentage point ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , again , we 'd be happy to get calculations to the member . i would make the observation that what we 've been working to do during the course of this pandemic is to support canadians and support canadian families by providing them income during a time when they do n't have access to income because they 're actually at home . we think that has supported them in a very , very positive way that allows us to ensure that we will have a continuing economy when we get through this crisis . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : you have 30 seconds left , mr. poilievre . go ahead . hon . pierre poilievre : unfortunately , we will have a $ 1-trillion debt when this fiscal year comes to an end . how much will the finance minister try to raise taxes if interest rates on that debt rise by , say , 1 % ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , as i 've said to the house previously , we do not intend to raise taxes . what the member opposite is suggesting is that we should n't be investing to support canadians . i think the approach we 've taken , with the emergency response benefit and the wage subsidy , has been particularly critical for enabling canadians to get through a very challenging time . </s>
<s> what did the committee say on housing ? </s> mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , it took months for dfo to realize that fish passage on the fraser river was blocked at big bar . then it took them seven more months to tender a contract to clear the blockage . now that contract has tripled from $ 17.6 million to over $ 52.5 million without a single communications post from the minister 's office . the original contract amount was clearly inadequate , so who ordered it ? hon . bernadette jordan ( south shorest . margarets , lib . ) : mr . chair , since we found out about the landslide at big bar , our government has been extremely active in making sure that the salmon have a passage through . we know how critically important the salmon are to the fraser river , as well as to the indigenous communities along the fraser . we 're working diligently to make sure that we get that passage cleared . so far , we 've made significant progress , but we know there 's more work that needs to be done . that 's why we 'll continue to work with indigenous communities and the province to make sure that these mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , the fisheries minister 's mandate letter from november of last year directed her to make new investments in fighting invasive species . half a year later , the minister has failed to deliver . canadians on the front line of prevention wrote the minister , and when they got a response five months later , it was devoid of any help . this government 's delays are hurting canada 's fight against invasive species . when will the minister follow her prime minister 's directive and make new investments in the fight against invasive species ? hon . bernadette jordan : mr . chair , i want to thank my hon . colleague for the question . invasive species are a real challenge for our waterways . we know that a lot more has to be done . we 're working diligently to find the answers to deal with some of the problems we are seeing from invasive species . we are continuing to monitor situations in waterways . i am committed to making sure that i meet my commitments within my mandate letter , and i will have more to say on that soon . mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , the list of hunting and sport shooting firearms banned by minister blair 's order in council continues to grow . what other hunting firearms does he plan to ban ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , to be very clear , the weapons we have prohibited are weapons that were not designed for hunting or sport shooting but for soldiers to use in combat . as law enforcement leaders right across the country have said many times , they have no place in our community , and we agree . mr. mel arnold : mr . chair , i continue to hear from constituents in the north okanaganshuswap who are unable to access supports under the canada emergency business account or the emergency commercial rent assistance program . business owners have also lost employees and ca n't get them to come back to work because of the lack of flexibility in the emergency response benefit and the emergency student benefit . when the liberals shut down parliament , they removed our ability to amend legislation and fix their failures . when will the government fix these problems and the programs ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : alright , yeah . crack on . okay so we 'll start off with a quick overview of the minutes . i think to sum up the last meeting , would be to say um the requirements that we 've um set out . those are we were going to go for what seemed to be a fairly minimal design based on uh a small joystick , lcd and a couple of other buttons for navigation um with power being i suppose one of the main single purpose buttons . um we were also going to use novelty of being able to locate the remote control again via a small transmitter with any luck , the idea to try and separate us and also because of the minimal design um looks like we 'll be able to be fairly adventurous in the actual physical shape of our remote control with any luck . um that pretty much sums up the last one . so we 'll just crack on , um like to maybe start with the industrial designer if it 's possible . industrial designer : uh uh okay . project manager : um uh the con today is the concep today . industrial designer : i 'll just project manager : this uh meeting is the conceptual design phase and is um sorry about this . . and is to cover things like um what the parts might be made of , um , can we uh outsource these from elsewhere , um will we have to construct any items ourselves ? industrial designer : uh i have a presentation i just saved it in the uh the folder . project manager : yeah , okay well i 'll just uh i 'll load it up then . um . which one do y oh , interface concept ? user interface : yeah , that 's me . project manager : that 's you . we 've got trend watching , that 's you . industrial designer : it 's uh components design . project manager : components design . industrial designer : . project manager : okay . industrial designer : alright . so uh . the case uh le that 's what i wrote first of all , could be plastic our plastic . uh but later on we found out that um it can be rubber as well , or titanium or even wood . so uh we decide what it 's gon na be . probably plastic . uh we need the infra-red transmitter . get that off the shelf . uh joystick we 'll probably if we 're gon na use it , um could be plastic w or rubber even as well . um if you go on to the next slide . uh if you go on to f uh findings , it 's like two or three slides down . project manager : okay . industrial designer : right . so , this is what i found we can use . uh three different types of batteries . um can either use a hand dynamo , or the kinetic type ones , you know that they use in watches , or else uh a solar powered one . project manager : okay . now , the kinetic one , we 've 'cause that 's the ones where like you the movement causes it . marketing : cost is yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um the bat uh the battery for a a watch would n't require a lot of power , would be my one query . is a kinetic one going to be able to supply enough power ? user interface : there 's also a watch moves around a great deal more . project manager : do you think ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i do n't think it would . um . and solar cells , i dunno about that . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh . we should probably just use conventional batteries . um , just like in usual remote controls . project manager : which i suppose as well would allow us to go off the shelf again , you 'd say ? industrial designer : um . yeah . um . and these are three different types of or two different types three different types of shapes you can have . uh one is a flat one , and then more original ones are single curved one or one with a double curved . um the materials are tha there as you can see , but uh you ca n't have a titanium one for a double curved , project manager : marketing : titanium , the really strong metal , titanium ? industrial designer : uh which would be yeah , marketing : is it not also it 's expensive ? industrial designer : and light . uh , i think so as well , yeah . project manager : um . um . industrial designer : they make mountain bikes out of that , do n't they . so it 's really light as well . project manager : curious . um , i do n't know if you 'd be able to off the top of your head or not , the single curved and double curved , would you be able to give an example ? industrial designer : um . t yeah . project manager : um could you maybe draw something ? i you do n't does n't have to be perfect , it 's just 'cause i 'm not quite sure if i understand the difference between the two . industrial designer : uh . well for a curved , well i was thinking to f for to sit in your the palm of your hand . uh maybe like this , with the uh joy pad here . joystick here . and maybe um an okay button around here , so that the thumb can uh use it quite easily . um i do n't exactly double curved . it probably means this is probably double curved . uh whereas a single curved would be like that . i guess . or not necessarily . project manager : so it might literally just be marketing : two curves . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah like that . whereas this is two curves . um so i guess that 's what they mean by uh double curve . project manager : alright . industrial designer : um which obviously it looks better than the single curve , but uh you ca n't have it in titanium , which is uh a nice material . uh and for the buttons , um it can have the scroll wheel which they use in mouses for com p_c_s . uh but um it requires a more expensive chip to use , and if you wan na use lcd it 's even more expensive . so you have to decide , there 's trade-offs there . um if you want the buttons to be oh yeah , if you have a double curve uh control and it 's rubber , then you have these rubber buttons as well . but you 're gon na ha i reckon you 're gon na have to have uh key a number keypad anyway for the amount of channels these days . you would n't want to just have to scroll through all the channels to get to the one you want . you wan na enter just the number of it , if you know it . so um i reckon we 're gon na have to have a number keypad anyway . do you think ? project manager : okay , that was definitely something we can talk about . um so you 've got a little bit about the the chip that we might require as well ? industrial designer : yeah . so , depends where gon na spend the money if you want the f fancy lcd display . project manager : um , do you have any idea so far , like when we 're saying that we 'd need an advanced chip for an lcd , does that in shoot the cost up by a drastic amount ? or ? marketing : need an advanced chip for the lcd . is that did i project manager : well i think compared to say just pressing buttons . marketing : advanced , like three eight six advance . project manager : if you press a button that sends a certain transmission through the infra-red , whereas i think if we 're controlling the lcd we definitely require a much more powerful chip . just compared to the chip you would use for pushing buttons i think is the the point being made . marketing : okay . okay , sure . project manager : if i 've not over-stepped . yeah ? industrial designer : yeah i project manager : okay , um should i go on , or go back ? industrial designer : um marketing : mm , if we only have twelve pounds fifty , twelve euros , not even twelve pounds . twelve euros , what 's that , like eight pounds or something like that , nine pounds ? project manager : well we 'd also be relying on the um the bulk buying in producement and such . i assume . marketing : okay , that 's good point . project manager : we have to look into the costs of those . so , sorry . industrial designer : uh the previous slides just explain what 's in the internal components of the uh remote control . if you go to the one before that uh so it just says what it does , translate the key press into an infra-red signal and this is received by the tv . uh the chip just needs to detect the signal or detect the key press and then uh it 'll send it to the tr the amplifier . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and uh then the next slide just shows how the uh copper wires uh interact with the buttons , the rubber buttons , uh to uh get sent to the chip . so that 's just how the control works inside . um we have to decide on what buttons we 're gon na use . project manager : okay . industrial designer : . project manager : um . . so in the information that you 've been supplied , how feasible would you say that the idea of using an lcd looks ? industrial designer : um i think we can do it if uh we use conventional batteries and not have solar cells or kinetic . um and then maybe use single curved uh case . because we might need it to be curved for the uh thumb to use the joyst joystick easily . um and then you 'll need the advanced chip obviously for the lcd . project manager : um i mean that sounds like quite a good requirement to me . um conventional battery would seem to make sense . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um i 'm not sure if there 's any cost differences between single and double curved and i 'm i do n't know about anybody else , but plastic or rubber as a traditional form of casing would seem to be a good way forward ? . user interface : mm . um i 'm actually gon na be bold and go oo go straight for rubber um for reasons i 'll go into uh in more detail . project manager : okay . marketing : i also have a preference for rubber . project manager : okay , well um marketing : based on my research . project manager : yeah , well will we move on to user interface , and user interface : . project manager : yeah ? um sorry , as long as were you ? yeah . okay . industrial designer : yep i 'm finished . project manager : um and d d d interface concept . user interface : yep . now i 'm gon na have to work between the uh the slides and the uh and the white board project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause i actually i have some fairly concrete things this time . uh um i was given a an h_t_m_l_ file giving um various ideas from uh from other previous remote control designs , and pretty much decided to just dump them all . i was n't very impressed by them and they did n't seem to re uh nothing i saw seemed to meet the sorts of design specifications that we 're going for today . um so what i ra rather than looking at other remotes , uh ra oomp be better to simply look at the human hand . um and try and f um and try and figure out a way of laying out the elements we 've already decided on , um so that if r a if so that the finger is e each finger or thumb is wherever it needs to be already . um so uh next slide , if you please . um and what we 've basically decided on was the the um the joy uh the joystick , two function buttons and the lcd , just keep it paired down to the absolute minimum . i do n't actually think we need the um the numeric keypad because if you m because one of the menus that we could have available um v via via the lcd is one where you scroll through channels , so if there 's something f and be bear in mind since this is n't meant to work for um marketing : digital . user interface : f f f for di for digital or um or for or for cable , whatever , industrial designer : ah , okay . user interface : you 're basically looking at four or five terrestrial channels , and then um your v_c_ uh and then the channel through your v_c_r_ and or d_v_d_ player . and or um box . so it 's not i 'm not really excessively concerned about that . you must have two two modes , basic mode , where um the joystick 's uh left right left right for channels , up down for volume , um and the uh uh and the menu mode for uh further functions . um now the reason i was particularly interested in using rubber for this is that if we 're going to have a highly ergonomic design , um it needs to be ergonomic for left or right handed people . um , so you project manager : can i just jump in slightly there ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : that would suggest the double curved design 's probably going to be most appropriate , then . user interface : yes , absolutely . project manager : okay . user interface : um , basi basically what i basically what the what be having um , i would say , the the whole thing articulated at two points , so that if you if you 're handing it from a lef uh left or right handed user you can adjust it so that the um the l_c_ the lcd and the uh the joystick would be in the right place . and also this is a rather nicer de uh design gimmick that the the um you know the whole thing you know it should have sort of organic feel to it that it should be , you know , soft to touch and can be moved around all nice . um okay project manager : okay . user interface : on to on to the next uh to the next slide . project manager : um , yeah . just to let you know we 'll probably be quite tight for time as well , user interface : okay . project manager : because i think you 've probably got a lot you 'd like to say , i guess . user interface : yeah , 'kay basically um i can add pretty pictures to this . the um assuming the hand the hand to be in about sort of this position , um hol uh holding the remote , the um the joystick unit should rest over the uh the joint of the f of the uh four finger so that it 's directly accessible for the thumb . um and it would need t there would need to be a it would need to be articulated just below that so that it could be switched around for uh left or right handed users . so . you then have a grip section that can be more or less the same irrespective of handedness . you just have big two big buttons that cover most of the area so it can in the upper part , one for the four finger , one for the middle finger . um , and that marketing : is this the joystick ? user interface : th this part here is the joystick . this would be the actual grip . probably where you 'd want to have the battery as well . marketing : okay . user interface : that would be probably the bulkiest part . and you then have , at the uh at the bottom , the lcd , and this would need to be articulated as well . and basically i 'd want this to rest here , right at the base of the wrist . so it would fit just nicely in the hand . and again , this part could be rotated , so it can so so so that it can be adjusted to either left or right handed user . um so the t uh the top function button in basic mode would be the on off switch and menu mode would be the enter button . and then the bottom function buttons switches between between modes . um now programming it actually thi this is one thing i 've found with um the replacement remote control . programming them can be a right pain . so i thought th the simplest way around that would be to have um a cable to connect it to the computer some some fair iv fairly fairly simple software on the computer just so that you on your computer just so that you could um pr program it at a rather in a rather more comfortable interface . and you could download programs for it from uh for uh tvs from all sort of main manufacturers . um though you i it would be necessary to have uh have a m uh have a ha have a mode for programming it without the computer , uh just in case there are there are still people left out there who do n't have them yet . um . but uh . yeah . that 's that 's my idea . project manager : okay . excellent , right . um uh . marketing : mm . 'kay . project manager : file open . marketing : we go . project manager : trend watching . marketing : okay . so uh to gather my research , two basic methods . we compared uh whether people want the remote control to do a lot of stuff or they want it to look cool . and then we we research uh fashion trends in europe , what 's what 's the new black , project manager : okay . marketing : you know , as it goes . next slide please . uh we found , in order of importance , people want the remote control to look cool more than they want it to to be cool . as in they want it to do a lot of good s they want it to look like it does a lot , and if it does do a lot that 's a bonus , but they do n't care so much , you know . they want it to be that 's sounds a bit like a contradiction . technology technical technologically innovative . people want it to be that , but s still they care more about the way it looks than what it does . so like the interface is really important . and easy to use , it it just so happens that uh from the second point to the third point is twice as important i mean the second point is twice as important as the third point . people want it i is it has to be cooler than easy to use , you know , if it has the newest features , even if it 's difficult to use , prefer it to have the newest features . and if it 's easy to use that 's a bonus . the fashion , now this is seems a bit odd to me , but fruit and veg is the new is the new black for furniture , for clothes , for shoes . how that relates to a remote control i do n't know . project manager : marketing : but i i see i come on to that in the next in the next slide . spongy . i 've als i 've been saying everything 's the new black . well spongy 's the new black as well . so we have the choice between rubber and plastic . if it 's the type of rubber that you can squeeze , you know , it 's spongy , then can i skip the rest ? industrial designer : oh yeah , i forgot to mention that . the uh rubber material is the type of stress ball material , not just normal rubber . marketing : okay . okay , so industrial designer : forgot to say that . marketing : kinda spongy material . project manager : okay . marketing : so um so my personal opinion ? um we want something fancy and techni technologically innovative , obviously . but what we what we need is something that looks like it 's from the future that looks cool , that 's that 's different , you know , that 's everyone has a white remote control , black remote control , you need something cool . like , titanium is cool but it 's expensive . and maybe it 's a bit of overkill for a remote control . um now the fruit and veg options , either we we go in that direction or we stay totally away from it . um i mean the research did come up with fruit and veg , so maybe it is important for it 's the up to the interface guy . so if we stay away from it , s you know stay away from it , but if we 're gon na go along with it then it does n't necessarily have to be like an apple or something like that , or a kiwi fruit . it could be something like , i say potato peeler but i 'm sure you guys have a have a much cooler idea than i do . so i think cool is the key . few questions about a spongy remote control . i 've never seen one before . i 've seen plastic remote controls . i think maybe they were i do n't know , back in the day when they first came up with remote controls , they had a reason for it being project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : sturdy , you know . for being strong and sturdy . so um if we want something strong and sturdy , i say stay with plastic or titanium , but if we go with spongy , we can stress that you can drop this as many times as you want , it does n't matter , it 's spongy material , it 's not gon na break , you know . i just do n't know how the l_e_d_ and the lights are gon na fit into a spongy material because it 's not gon na be completely squeezable . so how do things fit it ? and if we are gon na use spongy , we can say it 's long lasting , you know it 's damage resistant and stuff like that , so . so just to summarise , people want stuff that 's cool , that 's that looks like it 's cool , and if it is cool then that 's a bonus does n't have to be um people like fruit and veg . we can either go down that alley or stay totally away from it . people like spongy material . if we 're gon na use spongy material we have to think of how practical it is , and how we can further promote that idea . and also , this was this year . so , things change all the time , every year you know they they always talk about this year , this is the new black . well next year something else is gon na be the new black project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and we 're stuck with last year 's fruit and veg type stuff . project manager : okay . marketing : 'kay . that 's me . project manager : well , um i would say that the most you could probably hope for is gaining a year 's lead on most people anyway . you always have to bring out new designs , so if we can get next year then that 's possibly a good place to start anyway . um . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : seems like a a lot of the components could be off the shelf , so i do n't exactly what cost would be incurred . um i can see your point about the number keypad , but i 've i would say that we can probably incorporate it into the menu system if you need to do traversal of a large number of channels . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : my feeling would be that even if at a later date this was to be taking control of um boxes as well um having the use of the lcd and the joystick would probably allow you to manipulate enough channel numbers for you to be user interface : yeah , actually if you 've got a lot of channels , the number keypad can be quite annoying as well , becau it 's you know if you 're trying to remember what uh , you know , what number 's the discovery channel or whatever . it 's just irritating . marketing : that 's a good point . user interface : but if you h but but but if you have a me but if you have a menu structure , then you can sub-group them . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : you can incorporate names into the menu . okay . user interface : so you project manager : okay . marketing : even news , music . like they do on uh sky digital kinda . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so what it looks like to me is we 'll use a large number of standard components , um , say something like um lithium ion battery , the kind that you find in most um small hand held devices now . um looks like we going for a double curved design . um i do n't know what cost implications there are in that . um , looks like we 're pretty much decided on some kind of flexible rubber . though i 'd have to say depending on how flexible it is , we might need to have some kind of inner frame . user interface : yeah , i i would say definitely , i mean i mean i mean the the idea of having it sort of articulated i th there would be basically two points of articulation . w um one below and one above the m the uh the main sort of grip . so project manager : do you think there 's any way we could maybe remove the articulation ? i can see why it looks appealing , but it could be a weak point in um the structure , do you think ? user interface : mm . project manager : that would be a worry of mine . industrial designer : if you 're going with the fruit and veg thing , looks like a banana . user interface : i d i do n't thi i do n't think that it would be a a structural weakness , marketing : . industrial designer : f if you wan na design it that way . marketing : user interface : i mean if you have a firm s sub-structure , you can then incorporate articulation into that . if you then have a sort of outer skin of mm flexible , spongy rubber then you have something that is you know very much you know organic , and i think would look rather co i mean mi rather cool . i mean my drawing there does n't does n't do it justice , it makes it makes it look more a little bit more like a vibrator than a than a uh than a remote control , project manager : user interface : but uh . project manager : yeah , we wo n't add that functionality . user interface : marketing : okay . course not . industrial designer : project manager : however , one interesting point is , i do n't know how serious you were there , but we if we take some of the ideas why do n't we make the damn thing yellow to incorporate the des the colour of the logo ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : sure , yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : i dunno . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : it 's an certainly a different colour from your average um user interface : make it harder to lose , as well . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's true . marketing : sure . project manager : was there anything in your research marketing : the noise for when you lose the banana , um f yeah , for when you lose the remote control , it could be like a a monkey noise or something like that , rather than a standard beep beep . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : y you know , you lose the monkey the banana , industrial designer : monkey . project manager : marketing : y you lose the banana , you press a button , and you hear like monkey screams or something like that to direct you towards the banana . user interface : i th uh i mean if it i think that 's something that could perhaps be programmable , though maybe have monkey as default . um . marketing : s oh , i was gon na talk about the programmable remote control . now i think it 'd be cool if you had one remote control that could work with all tvs , you know you s you click a button and it finds the frequency that works with your particular television . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but why you 'd need to program it like as as a standard feature , i i do n't know . user interface : well basi basically the um for f for uh i mean e each manufacturer will have a partic will have a particular command set that uh the tv responds to . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : it 's not simply a matter of frequency . marketing : yeah . user interface : so um usually what 's done is you have this big booklet full of different possi you 'll have all of them sort of programmed in to the uh remote , and you 'll have this little booklet of codes you then find your um ma uh find your manufacturer marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and try the different codes that marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : come under that manufacturer 's name 'til you find the right one . marketing : that 's because televisions , they do n't give the remote control any type of feedback when you send it . user interface : yeah , that 's right . marketing : okay . user interface : so that 's that 's quite annoying and we probably would still have to do that . but if we had um some sort of hook-up to your computer as an option , then if you 've got a computer you can avoid that rather irritating thing . project manager : an interesting point is that if the person does n't have the computer , we can still make the process easier because instead of having to look up codes , maybe we can have it that one of the options they have is that they look up the name of the company on the lcd user interface : yeah . project manager : and then they maybe look up different names of um different actual units that have been produced . user interface : yeah . project manager : or we have the remote control just go through them until it 's like does this do the correct function , and such . marketing : is it is it actually a book of names to digits , or is it like a few pages ? user interface : um booklet . some pages . marketing : i was just thinking , if we were to store this information , some type of mapping . this person probably need to use this feature like once , you know , when you first buy the remote control , or whenever they buy a new television , so user interface : yeah . project manager : does n't have to be used very often marketing : once every s project manager : that 's right , yeah . marketing : yeah , user interface : yeah . but it 's a but it 's a nuisance . marketing : and it 's user interface : and it 's a nuisance very close to the to um to actually purchasing it , so it 's something that you 're likely to be thinking about . if you if there 's w i if there 's one in the shop that 's that says it can avoid much of that nuisance , you might be favourably inclined towards it . um mm . project manager : okay , this just to give us a rough idea of what we 're meant to be doing for the next stage . i 'm pretty sure that you got that anyway . this is the conceptual one . um . i think we 've come up i think we 've covered everything we need to here . um i think we 've decided on what , you know , decided on standard items for most of um rubber and such , so we 're now looking at the detailed design and what we need to be doing for the next meeting . um so for example , um i 'll just start at the top , you 've got yourself and the industrial designer gon na be working quite closely at this stage 'cause it 'll be hard not to , obviously . um looking from prototyping of some des description using clay . um i suppose you 'll be told a lot more about that as uh progress . um the user interface design , they 're kind of it looks they 're the idea i 've pushed forward so far is maybe more of a physical one there , whereas possibly be more interested in maybe how the lcd 's going to incorporate , do you think ? or do you s perceive that most the design design decisions still need to be based on the physical layout ? user interface : um well i i think other than ge getting a sort of more aesthetically pleasing form for it , um mo most of the sort of layout design decisions are are made , i would say . um but then again , the um the menu structure to to a considerable extent that 's gon na vary according to the model of television , and also any customisations that the user might wish to incorporate . so um and one of the nice things about having an lcd and a menu structure is that there is that flexibility to it . project manager : mm-hmm , that 's very true . um . okay . um got product evaluation as well . um . marketing : yeah , you see i do n't some of these things kinda logically follow the others . how can t product evaluation , does n't that come after actually seen a product prototype . project manager : i i think we 'd be yeah , no , it 'd be more a case of how do we envisage us performing the product evaluation once we have a model to test with . marketing : oh , that 's the okay , sure sure sure . project manager : um so it 'd be a case of do you think that just bringing users in to have them test it out , uh maybe putting a certain number of products into the field in certain places which i suppose is quite similar . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : or just kind of hitting the streets and you know saying this is a new remote control , what do you think of the look of it ? um marketing : okay , sure . at this stage we still have no no target audience or project manager : i think the target audience is pretty much anybody under the age of say maybe sixty or something ludicrous . marketing : 'kay . project manager : um the reason i 'm saying that is we 're just looking at a a replacement remote control , something that 's stylish , so maybe you 're even just maybe you 're narrowing down your target audience simply by saying marketing : and it 's stylish . project manager : if they 're buying it that often or they 're maybe looking to replace something then , they 've got a bit of free cash , so that puts them potentially in the younger age bracket . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe even single , just for the reasons of um uh excess cash flow . although of course i mean at twenty five euros , i do n't think we 're looking at charging the earth for the uh device . marketing : yep . okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : think that 's well within the normal bracket . um your idea of the u_s_b_ would i think would largely depend on the cost . u_s_b_ 's definitely one of the cheapest interfaces out there , but it might push the cost of the overall unit up 'cause it would require not just the connection but the chip for communicating with the rest of the system . that one might have to be based on marketing : programmable memory as well . industrial designer : the u_s_b_ for which ? marketing : for the remote control . project manager : the the idea was that maybe it could connect up for um allowing a software interface on the p_c_ for a larger programming industrial designer : oh right , okay . project manager : due to the fact that we 've gone for such a nice , easy minimal design , normally . um . marketing : we 've w definitely talking some type of industrial designer : but did n't they just say it 's just for tv , or are we gon na project manager : it 's just for tv , but for marketing : different . project manager : programming it to use your tv , you might hook it up to the p_c_ . industrial designer : okay , yeah . project manager : i 'm not sure , but i 'm thinking maybe that the additional cost of the u_s_b_ might be prohibitive . we do n't know unless it would make sense to . user interface : yeah , marketing : but you 're gon na need some type of flash memory or something . user interface : i mean it 's marketing : well something that does n't user interface : yeah . marketing : you would n't have to redo the whole thing once the batteries are changed , you know , once you turn off the power . user interface : yeah . the other thing i mean it i mean it would need to ha it would need to have um some sort of on board memory anyway . marketing : yeah . user interface : um f for one for one thing because i do think that the menu system should be um uh i mean although you know , it 's not going to be terribly complicated if it 's just controlling one device , the menu system ought to be um o ought to be customisable and uh marketing : different languages , uh different skins and stuff like that . project manager : mm-hmm . w user interface : mm-hmm . how uh how uh how you want say the um the the menu structure for flicking through channels if you 've got lots of channels . that sort of thing . marketing : sure . i if it was customisable as in different languages and stuff , that does open it is supposed to be international , right ? so . project manager : it would make sense to . i would say to . marketing : it would make sense if you could project manager : um and we 'd better be careful about the time as well . we 've already had the five minute warning , marketing : okay . project manager : so . um . i would say yeah . international would make sense . um you 're gon na look at product evaluation . i 'm i 'd better start writing up a hell of a lot of crap . um you 're gon na look a bit more at the kind of the physical make up you say . user interface : yeah . project manager : um looks like we 're gon na need a maybe a kind of prototype in clay . uh we 'll see how that goes . um . user interface : are we going to be supplied with the clay is what i want to know . project manager : so um user interface : where is the clay ? marketing : project manager : do i think we 've got an idea of where we need to go for the next meeting , would you say ? marketing : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : they 're going with the fashion thing , like the design , spongy rubber . marketing : the fruit and veg . this one . user interface : mm . i th i think i would largely want to actually steer clear of the whole sort of fruit and veg thing . project manager : yeah , i would s that would be my my feeling . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : user interface : bu but um but the spongy idea i like . i like it a lot . project manager : we seem to have quite a general consensus that the idea of the the r rubber could be quite marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : yeah . user interface : i having it i having it sort of br bright yellow i think that 's quite a good idea , though maybe we could have options for colours as well . marketing : yeah . user interface : and again this has the advantage of being harder to lose . marketing : sure . i mean we are trying to promote a remote control , but we wan na keep the company brand as well , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . so we always need to remember that somewhere we 're meant to be getting the slogan on . possibly i 'm think i 'm not sure but i 'm seeing a little bit of space around maybe the joystick area which could be used . um . user interface : mm . yeah . i was like like i said before i i think we should have the r_r_ on the uh on the top function button . project manager : okay . and i think that says it all really . marketing : i think so too . project manager : right . see everybody in a half hour . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about user requirements of the new remote control ? </s> marketing : mm . 'kay . project manager : file open . marketing : we go . project manager : trend watching . marketing : okay . so uh to gather my research , two basic methods . we compared uh whether people want the remote control to do a lot of stuff or they want it to look cool . and then we we research uh fashion trends in europe , what 's what 's the new black , project manager : okay . marketing : you know , as it goes . next slide please . uh we found , in order of importance , people want the remote control to look cool more than they want it to to be cool . as in they want it to do a lot of good s they want it to look like it does a lot , and if it does do a lot that 's a bonus , but they do n't care so much , you know . they want it to be that 's sounds a bit like a contradiction . technology technical technologically innovative . people want it to be that , but s still they care more about the way it looks than what it does . so like the interface is really important . and easy to use , it it just so happens that uh from the second point to the third point is twice as important i mean the second point is twice as important as the third point . people want it i is it has to be cooler than easy to use , you know , if it has the newest features , even if it 's difficult to use , prefer it to have the newest features . and if it 's easy to use that 's a bonus . the fashion , now this is seems a bit odd to me , but fruit and veg is the new is the new black for furniture , for clothes , for shoes . how that relates to a remote control i do n't know . project manager : marketing : but i i see i come on to that in the next in the next slide . spongy . i 've als i 've been saying everything 's the new black . well spongy 's the new black as well . so we have the choice between rubber and plastic . if it 's the type of rubber that you can squeeze , you know , it 's spongy , then can i skip the rest ? industrial designer : oh yeah , i forgot to mention that . the uh rubber material is the type of stress ball material , not just normal rubber . marketing : okay . okay , so industrial designer : forgot to say that . marketing : kinda spongy material . project manager : okay . marketing : so um so my personal opinion ? um we want something fancy and techni technologically innovative , obviously . but what we what we need is something that looks like it 's from the future that looks cool , that 's that 's different , you know , that 's everyone has a white remote control , black remote control , you need something cool . like , titanium is cool but it 's expensive . and maybe it 's a bit of overkill for a remote control . um now the fruit and veg options , either we we go in that direction or we stay totally away from it . um i mean the research did come up with fruit and veg , so maybe it is important for it 's the up to the interface guy . so if we stay away from it , s you know stay away from it , but if we 're gon na go along with it then it does n't necessarily have to be like an apple or something like that , or a kiwi fruit . it could be something like , i say potato peeler but i 'm sure you guys have a have a much cooler idea than i do . so i think cool is the key . few questions about a spongy remote control . i 've never seen one before . i 've seen plastic remote controls . i think maybe they were i do n't know , back in the day when they first came up with remote controls , they had a reason for it being project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : sturdy , you know . for being strong and sturdy . so um if we want something strong and sturdy , i say stay with plastic or titanium , but if we go with spongy , we can stress that you can drop this as many times as you want , it does n't matter , it 's spongy material , it 's not gon na break , you know . i just do n't know how the l_e_d_ and the lights are gon na fit into a spongy material because it 's not gon na be completely squeezable . so how do things fit it ? and if we are gon na use spongy , we can say it 's long lasting , you know it 's damage resistant and stuff like that , so . so just to summarise , people want stuff that 's cool , that 's that looks like it 's cool , and if it is cool then that 's a bonus does n't have to be um people like fruit and veg . we can either go down that alley or stay totally away from it . people like spongy material . if we 're gon na use spongy material we have to think of how practical it is , and how we can further promote that idea . and also , this was this year . so , things change all the time , every year you know they they always talk about this year , this is the new black . well next year something else is gon na be the new black project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and we 're stuck with last year 's fruit and veg type stuff . project manager : okay . marketing : 'kay . that 's me . project manager : well , um i would say that the most you could probably hope for is gaining a year 's lead on most people anyway . you always have to bring out new designs , so if we can get next year then that 's possibly a good place to start anyway . um . </s>
<s> what did marketing think of rubber material when discussing user requirements of the new remote control ? </s> marketing : but i i see i come on to that in the next in the next slide . spongy . i 've als i 've been saying everything 's the new black . well spongy 's the new black as well . so we have the choice between rubber and plastic . if it 's the type of rubber that you can squeeze , you know , it 's spongy , then can i skip the rest ? industrial designer : oh yeah , i forgot to mention that . the uh rubber material is the type of stress ball material , not just normal rubber . marketing : okay . okay , so industrial designer : forgot to say that . marketing : kinda spongy material . project manager : okay . marketing : so um so my personal opinion ? um we want something fancy and techni technologically innovative , obviously . but what we what we need is something that looks like it 's from the future that looks cool , that 's that 's different , you know , that 's everyone has a white remote control , black remote control , you need something cool . like , titanium is cool but it 's expensive . and maybe it 's a bit of overkill for a remote control . um now the fruit and veg options , either we we go in that direction or we stay totally away from it . um i mean the research did come up with fruit and veg , so maybe it is important for it 's the up to the interface guy . so if we stay away from it , s you know stay away from it , but if we 're gon na go along with it then it does n't necessarily have to be like an apple or something like that , or a kiwi fruit . it could be something like , i say potato peeler but i 'm sure you guys have a have a much cooler idea than i do . so i think cool is the key . few questions about a spongy remote control . i 've never seen one before . i 've seen plastic remote controls . i think maybe they were i do n't know , back in the day when they first came up with remote controls , they had a reason for it being project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : sturdy , you know . for being strong and sturdy . so um if we want something strong and sturdy , i say stay with plastic or titanium , but if we go with spongy , we can stress that you can drop this as many times as you want , it does n't matter , it 's spongy material , it 's not gon na break , you know . i just do n't know how the l_e_d_ and the lights are gon na fit into a spongy material because it 's not gon na be completely squeezable . so how do things fit it ? and if we are gon na use spongy , we can say it 's long lasting , you know it 's damage resistant and stuff like that , so . so just to summarise , people want stuff that 's cool , that 's that looks like it 's cool , and if it is cool then that 's a bonus does n't have to be um people like fruit and veg . we can either go down that alley or stay totally away from it . people like spongy material . if we 're gon na use spongy material we have to think of how practical it is , and how we can further promote that idea . and also , this was this year . so , things change all the time , every year you know they they always talk about this year , this is the new black . well next year something else is gon na be the new black </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about details on the new remote control style and the plan for the next meeting ? </s> project manager : seems like a a lot of the components could be off the shelf , so i do n't exactly what cost would be incurred . um i can see your point about the number keypad , but i 've i would say that we can probably incorporate it into the menu system if you need to do traversal of a large number of channels . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : my feeling would be that even if at a later date this was to be taking control of um boxes as well um having the use of the lcd and the joystick would probably allow you to manipulate enough channel numbers for you to be user interface : yeah , actually if you 've got a lot of channels , the number keypad can be quite annoying as well , becau it 's you know if you 're trying to remember what uh , you know , what number 's the discovery channel or whatever . it 's just irritating . marketing : that 's a good point . user interface : but if you h but but but if you have a me but if you have a menu structure , then you can sub-group them . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : you can incorporate names into the menu . okay . user interface : so you project manager : okay . marketing : even news , music . like they do on uh sky digital kinda . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so what it looks like to me is we 'll use a large number of standard components , um , say something like um lithium ion battery , the kind that you find in most um small hand held devices now . um looks like we going for a double curved design . um i do n't know what cost implications there are in that . um , looks like we 're pretty much decided on some kind of flexible rubber . though i 'd have to say depending on how flexible it is , we might need to have some kind of inner frame . user interface : yeah , i i would say definitely , i mean i mean i mean the the idea of having it sort of articulated i th there would be basically two points of articulation . w um one below and one above the m the uh the main sort of grip . so project manager : do you think there 's any way we could maybe remove the articulation ? i can see why it looks appealing , but it could be a weak point in um the structure , do you think ? user interface : mm . project manager : that would be a worry of mine . industrial designer : if you 're going with the fruit and veg thing , looks like a banana . user interface : i d i do n't thi i do n't think that it would be a a structural weakness , marketing : . industrial designer : f if you wan na design it that way . marketing : user interface : i mean if you have a firm s sub-structure , you can then incorporate articulation into that . if you then have a sort of outer skin of mm flexible , spongy rubber then you have something that is you know very much you know organic , and i think would look rather co i mean mi rather cool . i mean my drawing there does n't does n't do it justice , it makes it makes it look more a little bit more like a vibrator than a than a uh than a remote control , project manager : user interface : but uh . project manager : yeah , we wo n't add that functionality . user interface : marketing : okay . course not . industrial designer : project manager : however , one interesting point is , i do n't know how serious you were there , but we if we take some of the ideas why do n't we make the damn thing yellow to incorporate the des the colour of the logo ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : sure , yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : i dunno . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : it 's an certainly a different colour from your average um user interface : make it harder to lose , as well . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's true . marketing : sure . project manager : was there anything in your research marketing : the noise for when you lose the banana , um f yeah , for when you lose the remote control , it could be like a a monkey noise or something like that , rather than a standard beep beep . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : y you know , you lose the monkey the banana , industrial designer : monkey . project manager : marketing : y you lose the banana , you press a button , and you hear like monkey screams or something like that to direct you towards the banana . user interface : i th uh i mean if it i think that 's something that could perhaps be programmable , though maybe have monkey as default . um . marketing : s oh , i was gon na talk about the programmable remote control . now i think it 'd be cool if you had one remote control that could work with all tvs , you know you s you click a button and it finds the frequency that works with your particular television . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but why you 'd need to program it like as as a standard feature , i i do n't know . user interface : well basi basically the um for f for uh i mean e each manufacturer will have a partic will have a particular command set that uh the tv responds to . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : it 's not simply a matter of frequency . marketing : yeah . user interface : so um usually what 's done is you have this big booklet full of different possi you 'll have all of them sort of programmed in to the uh remote , and you 'll have this little booklet of codes you then find your um ma uh find your manufacturer marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and try the different codes that marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : come under that manufacturer 's name 'til you find the right one . marketing : that 's because televisions , they do n't give the remote control any type of feedback when you send it . user interface : yeah , that 's right . marketing : okay . user interface : so that 's that 's quite annoying and we probably would still have to do that . but if we had um some sort of hook-up to your computer as an option , then if you 've got a computer you can avoid that rather irritating thing . project manager : an interesting point is that if the person does n't have the computer , we can still make the process easier because instead of having to look up codes , maybe we can have it that one of the options they have is that they look up the name of the company on the lcd user interface : yeah . project manager : and then they maybe look up different names of um different actual units that have been produced . user interface : yeah . project manager : or we have the remote control just go through them until it 's like does this do the correct function , and such . marketing : is it is it actually a book of names to digits , or is it like a few pages ? user interface : um booklet . some pages . marketing : i was just thinking , if we were to store this information , some type of mapping . this person probably need to use this feature like once , you know , when you first buy the remote control , or whenever they buy a new television , so user interface : yeah . project manager : does n't have to be used very often marketing : once every s project manager : that 's right , yeah . marketing : yeah , user interface : yeah . but it 's a but it 's a nuisance . marketing : and it 's user interface : and it 's a nuisance very close to the to um to actually purchasing it , so it 's something that you 're likely to be thinking about . if you if there 's w i if there 's one in the shop that 's that says it can avoid much of that nuisance , you might be favourably inclined towards it . um mm . project manager : okay , this just to give us a rough idea of what we 're meant to be doing for the next stage . i 'm pretty sure that you got that anyway . this is the conceptual one . um . i think we 've come up i think we 've covered everything we need to here . um i think we 've decided on what , you know , decided on standard items for most of um rubber and such , so we 're now looking at the detailed design and what we need to be doing for the next meeting . um so for example , um i 'll just start at the top , you 've got yourself and the industrial designer gon na be working quite closely at this stage 'cause it 'll be hard not to , obviously . um looking from prototyping of some des description using clay . um i suppose you 'll be told a lot more about that as uh progress . um the user interface design , they 're kind of it looks they 're the idea i 've pushed forward so far is maybe more of a physical one there , whereas possibly be more interested in maybe how the lcd 's going to incorporate , do you think ? or do you s perceive that most the design design decisions still need to be based on the physical layout ? user interface : um well i i think other than ge getting a sort of more aesthetically pleasing form for it , um mo most of the sort of layout design decisions are are made , i would say . um but then again , the um the menu structure to to a considerable extent that 's gon na vary according to the model of television , and also any customisations that the user might wish to incorporate . so um and one of the nice things about having an lcd and a menu structure is that there is that flexibility to it . project manager : mm-hmm , that 's very true . um . okay . um got product evaluation as well . um . marketing : yeah , you see i do n't some of these things kinda logically follow the others . how can t product evaluation , does n't that come after actually seen a product prototype . project manager : i i think we 'd be yeah , no , it 'd be more a case of how do we envisage us performing the product evaluation once we have a model to test with . marketing : oh , that 's the okay , sure sure sure . project manager : um so it 'd be a case of do you think that just bringing users in to have them test it out , uh maybe putting a certain number of products into the field in certain places which i suppose is quite similar . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : or just kind of hitting the streets and you know saying this is a new remote control , what do you think of the look of it ? um marketing : okay , sure . at this stage we still have no no target audience or project manager : i think the target audience is pretty much anybody under the age of say maybe sixty or something ludicrous . marketing : 'kay . project manager : um the reason i 'm saying that is we 're just looking at a a replacement remote control , something that 's stylish , so maybe you 're even just maybe you 're narrowing down your target audience simply by saying marketing : and it 's stylish . project manager : if they 're buying it that often or they 're maybe looking to replace something then , they 've got a bit of free cash , so that puts them potentially in the younger age bracket . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe even single , just for the reasons of um uh excess cash flow . although of course i mean at twenty five euros , i do n't think we 're looking at charging the earth for the uh device . marketing : yep . okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : think that 's well within the normal bracket . um your idea of the u_s_b_ would i think would largely depend on the cost . u_s_b_ 's definitely one of the cheapest interfaces out there , but it might push the cost of the overall unit up 'cause it would require not just the connection but the chip for communicating with the rest of the system . that one might have to be based on marketing : programmable memory as well . industrial designer : the u_s_b_ for which ? marketing : for the remote control . project manager : the the idea was that maybe it could connect up for um allowing a software interface on the p_c_ for a larger programming industrial designer : oh right , okay . project manager : due to the fact that we 've gone for such a nice , easy minimal design , normally . um . marketing : we 've w definitely talking some type of industrial designer : but did n't they just say it 's just for tv , or are we gon na project manager : it 's just for tv , but for marketing : different . project manager : programming it to use your tv , you might hook it up to the p_c_ . industrial designer : okay , yeah . project manager : i 'm not sure , but i 'm thinking maybe that the additional cost of the u_s_b_ might be prohibitive . we do n't know unless it would make sense to . user interface : yeah , marketing : but you 're gon na need some type of flash memory or something . user interface : i mean it 's marketing : well something that does n't user interface : yeah . marketing : you would n't have to redo the whole thing once the batteries are changed , you know , once you turn off the power . user interface : yeah . the other thing i mean it i mean it would need to ha it would need to have um some sort of on board memory anyway . marketing : yeah . user interface : um f for one for one thing because i do think that the menu system should be um uh i mean although you know , it 's not going to be terribly complicated if it 's just controlling one device , the menu system ought to be um o ought to be customisable and uh marketing : different languages , uh different skins and stuff like that . project manager : mm-hmm . w user interface : mm-hmm . how uh how uh how you want say the um the the menu structure for flicking through channels if you 've got lots of channels . that sort of thing . marketing : sure . i if it was customisable as in different languages and stuff , that does open it is supposed to be international , right ? so . project manager : it would make sense to . i would say to . marketing : it would make sense if you could project manager : um and we 'd better be careful about the time as well . we 've already had the five minute warning , marketing : okay . project manager : so . um . i would say yeah . international would make sense . um you 're gon na look at product evaluation . i 'm i 'd better start writing up a hell of a lot of crap . um you 're gon na look a bit more at the kind of the physical make up you say . user interface : yeah . project manager : um looks like we 're gon na need a maybe a kind of prototype in clay . uh we 'll see how that goes . um . user interface : are we going to be supplied with the clay is what i want to know . project manager : so um user interface : where is the clay ? marketing : project manager : do i think we 've got an idea of where we need to go for the next meeting , would you say ? marketing : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : they 're going with the fashion thing , like the design , spongy rubber . marketing : the fruit and veg . this one . user interface : mm . i th i think i would largely want to actually steer clear of the whole sort of fruit and veg thing . project manager : yeah , i would s that would be my my feeling . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : user interface : bu but um but the spongy idea i like . i like it a lot . project manager : we seem to have quite a general consensus that the idea of the the r rubber could be quite marketing : yeah . user interface : marketing : yeah . user interface : i having it i having it sort of br bright yellow i think that 's quite a good idea , though maybe we could have options for colours as well . marketing : yeah . user interface : and again this has the advantage of being harder to lose . marketing : sure . i mean we are trying to promote a remote control , but we wan na keep the company brand as well , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . so we always need to remember that somewhere we 're meant to be getting the slogan on . possibly i 'm think i 'm not sure but i 'm seeing a little bit of space around maybe the joystick area which could be used . um . user interface : mm . yeah . i was like like i said before i i think we should have the r_r_ on the uh on the top function button . project manager : okay . and i think that says it all really . marketing : i think so too . project manager : right . see everybody in a half hour . </s>
<s> what did user interface think of the incorporation of a keypad when discussing details on the new remote control style and a plan for the next meeting ? </s> project manager : seems like a a lot of the components could be off the shelf , so i do n't exactly what cost would be incurred . um i can see your point about the number keypad , but i 've i would say that we can probably incorporate it into the menu system if you need to do traversal of a large number of channels . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : my feeling would be that even if at a later date this was to be taking control of um boxes as well um having the use of the lcd and the joystick would probably allow you to manipulate enough channel numbers for you to be user interface : yeah , actually if you 've got a lot of channels , the number keypad can be quite annoying as well , becau it 's you know if you 're trying to remember what uh , you know , what number 's the discovery channel or whatever . it 's just irritating . marketing : that 's a good point . user interface : but if you h but but but if you have a me but if you have a menu structure , then you can sub-group them . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : you can incorporate names into the menu . okay . user interface : so you project manager : okay . marketing : even news , music . like they do on uh sky digital kinda . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize project manager 's opinions towards the idea of a programmable remote control when discussing details on the new remote control style and the plan for the next meeting . </s> marketing : but why you 'd need to program it like as as a standard feature , i i do n't know . user interface : well basi basically the um for f for uh i mean e each manufacturer will have a partic will have a particular command set that uh the tv responds to . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : it 's not simply a matter of frequency . marketing : yeah . user interface : so um usually what 's done is you have this big booklet full of different possi you 'll have all of them sort of programmed in to the uh remote , and you 'll have this little booklet of codes you then find your um ma uh find your manufacturer marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and try the different codes that marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : come under that manufacturer 's name 'til you find the right one . marketing : that 's because televisions , they do n't give the remote control any type of feedback when you send it . user interface : yeah , that 's right . marketing : okay . user interface : so that 's that 's quite annoying and we probably would still have to do that . but if we had um some sort of hook-up to your computer as an option , then if you 've got a computer you can avoid that rather irritating thing . project manager : an interesting point is that if the person does n't have the computer , we can still make the process easier because instead of having to look up codes , maybe we can have it that one of the options they have is that they look up the name of the company on the lcd user interface : yeah . project manager : and then they maybe look up different names of um different actual units that have been produced . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the target market group when discussing details on the new remote control style and the plan for the next meeting ? </s> project manager : i think the target audience is pretty much anybody under the age of say maybe sixty or something ludicrous . marketing : 'kay . project manager : um the reason i 'm saying that is we 're just looking at a a replacement remote control , something that 's stylish , so maybe you 're even just maybe you 're narrowing down your target audience simply by saying marketing : and it 's stylish . project manager : if they 're buying it that often or they 're maybe looking to replace something then , they 've got a bit of free cash , so that puts them potentially in the younger age bracket . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe even single , just for the reasons of um uh excess cash flow . although of course i mean at twenty five euros , i do n't think we 're looking at charging the earth for the uh device . marketing : yep . okay . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor b : are we on ? we 're on . ok . phd e : is it on ? phd d : yeah . professor b : yeah . ok , phd d : one , two u ok . phd a : why is it so cold in here ? professor b : so , uh , we have n't sent around the agenda . so , i uh , any agenda items anybody has , wants to talk about , what 's going on ? postdoc g : i c i could talk about the meeting . grad h : does everyone has everyone met don ? postdoc g : yeah . professor b : it 's on ? phd c : now , yeah . phd d : yeah . grad h : yeah ? ok . phd d : yeah . grad f : hello . professor b : ok , agenda item one , phd d : we went grad f : yeah . professor b : introduce don . ok , we did that . uh phd a : well , i had a just a quick question but i know there was discussion of it at a previous meeting that i missed , but just about the the wish list item of getting good quality close - talking mikes on every speaker . professor b : ok , so let 's let 's so let 's just do agenda building right now . ok , so let 's talk about that a bit . phd a : i mean , that was professor b : uh , @ @ tuss close talking mikes , better quality . ok , uh , we can talk about that . you were gon na starting to say something ? postdoc g : well , you you , um , already know about the meeting { comment } that 's coming up and i do n't know if if this is appropriate for this . i do n't know . i mean , maybe maybe it 's something we should handle outside of the meeting . professor b : no , no , that 's ok . phd e : what meeting ? professor b : we can so we can ta so n nist is nist folks are coming by next week and so we can talk about that . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : i think phd e : who 's coming ? professor b : uh , uh , john fiscus postdoc g : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh , i think george doddington will be around as well . uh , ok , so we can talk about that . uh , i guess just hear about how things are going with , uh , uh , the transcriptions . that 's right . postdoc g : sure . mm - hmm . professor b : that would sorta be an obvious thing to discuss . um , an - anything else , uh , strike anybody ? phd a : uh , we started running recognition on one conversation but it 's the r is n't working yet . so , but if anyone has uh , the main thing would be if anyone has , um , knowledge about ways to , uh , post - process the wave forms that would give us better recognition , that would be helpful to know about . grad h : dome yeah , it sounds like a topic of conversation . professor b : yeah , so , uh phd e : what about , uh , is there anything new with the speech , nonspeech stuff ? phd c : yeah , we 're working more on it but , it 's not finished . professor b : ok . alright , that seems like a a good collection of things . and we 'll undoubtedly think of other things . postdoc g : i had thought under my topic that i would mention the , uh , four items that i i , uh , put out for being on the agenda f on that meeting , which includes like the pre - segmentation and the and the developments in multitrans . professor b : oh , under the nist meeting . postdoc g : yeah , under the nist thing . yeah . professor b : alright , why do n't we start off with this , u u i guess the order we brought them up seems fine . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : um , so , better quality close talking mikes . so the one issue was that the the , uh , lapel mike , uh , is n't as good as you would like . and so , uh , it it 'd be better if we had close talking mikes for everybody . right ? phd a : ri - um , professor b : is that is that basically the point ? phd a : yeah , the and actually in addition to that , that the the close talking mikes are worn in such a way as to best capture the signal . and the reason here is just that for the people doing work not on microphones but on sort of like dialogue and so forth , uh or and even on prosody , which don is gon na be working on soon , it adds this extra , you know , vari variable for each speaker to to deal with when the microphones are n't similar . professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : right . phd a : so and i also talked to mari this morning and she also had a strong preference for doing that . and in fact she said that that 's useful for them to know in starting to collect their data too . professor b : mm - hmm . right , so one th grad h : well , so professor b : uh , well one thing i was gon na say was that , um , i we could get more , uh , of the head mounted microphones even beyond the number of radio channels we have because i think whether it 's radio or wire is probably second - order . and the main thing is having the microphone close to you , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : u although , not too close . grad h : right , so , uh , actually the way jose is wearing his is is c correct . phd d : yeah . is grad h : the good way . so you want to professor b : yeah . phd d : i it 's not cor it 's correct ? grad h : yeah , th that 's good . phd d : yeah . grad h : so it 's towards the corner of your mouth so that breath sounds do n't get on it . phd d : yeah . yeah . grad h : and then just sort of about , uh , a thumb or a thumb and a half away from your from your mouth . phd d : yeah . yeah . uh , yeah . professor b : right . phd a : but we have more than one type of professor b : how am i d phd a : i mean , for instance , you 're phd c : yeah . grad h : and this one is n't very adjustable , phd d : yeah . grad h : so this about as good as i can get phd a : right . phd d : yeah . grad h : cuz it 's a fixed boom . phd d : is fixed . yeah . phd a : but if we could actually standardize , you know , the the microphones , uh , as much as possible that would be really helpful . professor b : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . grad h : mm - hmm . professor b : well , i mean it does n't hurt to have a few extra microphones around , phd d : yeah . professor b : so why do n't we just go out and and get an order of of if this microphone seems ok to people , uh , i 'd just get a half dozen of these things . grad h : well the onl the only problem with that is right now , um , some of the jimlets are n't working . the little the boxes under the table . professor b : yeah . grad h : and so , w uh , i 've only been able to find three jacks that are working . professor b : yeah . phd e : can we get these , wireless ? grad h : so professor b : no , but my point is phd a : but y we could just record these signals separately and time align them with the start of the meeting . professor b : r r right grad h : i i 'm not sure i 'm follow . say that again ? professor b : right now , we 've got , uh , two microphones in the room , that are not quote - unquote standard . so why do n't we replace those grad h : ok , just two . professor b : well , however many we can plug in . you know , if we can plug in three , let 's plug in three . phd d : mm - yeah . professor b : also what we 've talked before about getting another , uh , radio , grad h : right . professor b : and so then that would be , you know , three more . grad h : right . ok . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : so , uh so we should go out to our full complement of whatever we can do , but have them all be the same mike . i think the original reason that it was done the other way was because , it w it was sort of an experimental thing and i do n't think anybody knew whether people would rather have more variety or or , uh , more uniformity , phd a : right . professor b : but @ @ { comment } but uh , sounds sounds fine . grad h : sounds like uniformity wins . phd d : right . phd a : well , for short term research it 's just there 's just so much effort that would have to be done up front n uh , professor b : yeah . grad h : well phd a : so yeah , uniformity would be great . grad h : yeah . phd e : is it because you you 're saying the for dialogue purposes , so that means that the transcribers are having trouble with those mikes ? is that what you mean ? phd a : well jane would know more about the transcribers . phd e : or ? postdoc g : and that 's true . i mean , i we did discuss this . uh , and and grad h : yep . couple times . postdoc g : a couple times , so , um , yeah , the transcribers notice and in fact there 're some where , um ugh well , i mean there 's it 's the double thing . it 's the equipment and also how it 's worn . phd a : right . postdoc g : and he 's always they always they just rave about how wonderful adam 's adam 's channel is . grad h : what can i say . postdoc g : and then , phd a : so does the recognizer . professor b : yeah . postdoc g : yeah . grad h : oh , really ? yeah , i 'm not surprised . i mean , `` baaah ! `` phd a : even if if you 're talking on someone else 's mike it 's still you w postdoc g : yeah , but i mean it 's not just that , it 's also you know you professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . postdoc g : it 's also like n no breathing , no you know , it 's like it 's it 's um , professor b : yeah . postdoc g : it 's really it makes a big difference from the transcribers ' point of view grad h : yeah , it 's an advantage when you do n't breath . postdoc g : and also from the research s point of view . phd a : right . professor b : when we 're doing grad h : yeah , i think that the point of doing the close talking mike is to get a good quality signal . we 're not doing research on close talking mikes . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : yeah . grad h : so we might as well get it as uniform as we can . phd a : right . professor b : now , this is locking the barn door after the horse was stolen . we do have thirty hours , of of speech , which is done this way . grad h : yeah . phd a : that 's ok . professor b : but but , uh , yeah , for future ones we can get it a bit more uniform . phd a : great , great . grad h : so i think just do a field trip at some point . professor b : yeah , probably yeah , to the store we talked about and that postdoc g : and there was some talk about , uh , maybe the h headphones that are uncomfortable for people , to grad h : yep . so , as as i said , we 'll do a field trip and see if we can get all of the same mike that 's more comfortable than than these things , which i think are horrible . postdoc g : ok . good . phd a : great , thank you very much . phd e : especially for people with big heads . phd a : it 's makes our job a lot easier . professor b : ok . ok . grad h : and , you know , we 're researchers , so we all have big heads . phd e : yeah . professor b : yeah . uh , ok , second item was the , uh , nist visit , and what 's going on there . postdoc g : yeah . ok , so , um , uh , jonathan fiscus is coming on the second of february and i 've spoken with , uh , u u a lot of people here , not everyone . um , and , um , he expressed an interest in seeing the room and in , um , seeing a demonstration of the modified multitrans , which i 'll mention in a second , and also , um , he was interested in the pre - segmentation and then he 's also interested in the transcription conventions . grad h : mm - hmm . postdoc g : and , um so , um , it seems to me in terms of like , um , i i it wou you know , ok . so the room , it 's things like the audio and c and audi audio and acoustic acoustic properties of the room and how it how the recordings are done , and that kind of thing . and , um . ok , in terms of the multi - trans , well that that 's being modified by dave gelbart to , uh , handle multi - channel recording . grad h : oh , i should 've i was just thinking i should have invited him to this meeting . i forgot to do it . postdoc g : yeah , ok . phd c : yeah . postdoc g : yeah . well that 's ok , i mean we 'll grad h : sorry . postdoc g : yeah , and it 's t and it looks really great . he he has a prototype . i i , uh , @ @ { comment } did n't did n't see it , uh , yesterday but i 'm going to see it today . and , uh , that 's that will enable us to do nice um , tight time marking of the beginning and ending of overlapping segments . at present it 's not possible with limitations of of the , uh , original design of the software . and um . so , i do n't know . in terms of , like , pre - segmentation , that that continues to be , um , a terrific asset to the to the transcribers . do you i know that you 're al also supplementing it further . do you want to mention something about that c thilo , or ? phd c : um , yeah . what what i 'm doing right now is i 'm trying to include some information about which channel , uh , there 's some speech in . but that 's not working at the moment . i 'm just trying to do this by comparing energies , uh normalizing energies and comparing energies of the different channels . and so to to give the transcribers some information in which channel there 's there 's speech in addition to to the thing we we did now which is just , uh , speech - nonspeech detection on the mixed file . so i 'm i 'm relying on on the segmentation of the mixed file postdoc g : this is good . mm - hmm . phd c : but i 'm i 'm trying to subdivide the speech portions into different portions if there is some activity in in different channels . postdoc g : excellent , so this 'd be like w e providing also speaker id potentially . phd c : but yeah . yeah . postdoc g : wonderful . wonderful . professor b : um , something i guess i did n't put in the list but , uh , on that , uh , same day later on in or maybe it 's no , actually it 's this week , uh , dave gelbart and i will be , uh , visiting with john canny who i you know , is a cs professor , who 's interested in ar in array microphones . grad h : hcc . oh , he 's doing array mikes . professor b : yeah . and so we wan na see what commonality there is here . you know , maybe they 'd wan na stick an array mike here when we 're doing things phd e : that would be cool . grad h : yeah , that would be neat . professor b : or or maybe it 's it 's not a specific array microphone they want phd d : yeah . phd e : that would be really neat . professor b : but they might wan na just , uh , you know , you could imagine them taking the four signals from these these table mikes and trying to do something with them um , i also had a discussion so , w uh , we 'll be over over there talking with him , um , after class on friday . um , we 'll let you know what what goes with that . also had a completely unrelated thing . i had a , uh , discussion today with , uh , birger kollmeier who 's a , uh , a german , uh , scientist who 's got a fair sized group doing a range of things . it 's sort of auditory related , largely for hearing aids and so on . but but , uh , he does stuff with auditory models and he 's very interested in directionality , and location , and and , uh , head models and microphone things . and so , uh , he 's he and possibly a student , there w there 's , uh , a student of his who gave a talk here last year , uh , may come here , uh , in the fall for , uh , sort of a five month , uh , sabbatical . so he might be around . get him to give some talks and so on . but anyway , he might be interested in this stuff . phd d : mm - hmm . phd e : that that reminds me , i had a a thought of an interesting project that somebody could try to do with the data from here , either using , you know , the the mikes on the table or using signal energies from the head worn mikes , phd d : mm - hmm . phd e : and that is to try to construct a map of where people were sitting , professor b : right . phd d : uh - huh . phd e : uh , based on grad h : well dan dan had worked on that . dan ellis , phd d : uh - huh . phd e : oh , did he ? oh , that 's interesting . grad h : yeah . so that that 's the cross - correlation stuff , was was doing b beam - forming . phd d : yeah . phd e : and so you could plot out who was sitting next to who professor b : a little bit , phd e : and professor b : i mean , he did n't do a very extreme thing but just it was just sort of phd d : yeah , yeah . grad h : no , he did start on it . professor b : e e given that , the the the block of wood with the the the two mikes { comment } on either side , grad h : mm - hmm . professor b : if i 'm speaking , or if you 're speaking , or someone over there is speaking , it if you look at cross - correlation functions , you end up with a phd d : yeah . professor b : if if someone who was on the axis between the two is talking , then you you get a big peak there . and if if someone 's talking on on on , uh , one side or the other , it goes the other way . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and then , uh , it it it even looks different if th t if the two two people on either side are talking than if one in the middle . it it actually looks somewhat different , so . phd e : hmm . well i was just thinking , you know , as i was sitting here next to thilo that um , when he 's talking , my mike probably picks it up better than your guys 's mikes . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd e : so if you just looked at grad h : oh , that 's another cl cue , phd d : yeah . phd e : yeah , { comment } looked at { comment } the energy on my mike and you could get an idea about who 's closest to who . grad h : that 's true . phd d : yeah . professor b : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . professor b : right . phd d : yeah . phd e : and grad h : or who talks the loudest . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor b : yeah , well you have to the appropriate normalizations are tricky , and and and are probably the key . grad h : yeah . phd c : yeah . phd a : you just search for adam 's voice on each individual microphone , you pretty much know where everybody 's sitting . phd c : yeah . professor b : yeah . we 've switched positions recently so you ca n't anyway . ok . so those are just a little couple of news items . postdoc g : can i ask one thing ? uh , so , um , jonathan fiscus expressed an interest in , uh , microphone arrays . um , is there i mean b and i also want to say , his he ca n't stay all day . he needs to uh , leave for uh , from here to make a two forty - five flight grad h : oh , so just morning . postdoc g : from from oakland . professor b : right . postdoc g : so it makes the scheduling a little bit tight but do you think that , um that , uh , i john canny should be involved in this somehow or not . i have no idea . professor b : probably not but i i 'll i 'll i 'll know better after i see him this friday what what kind of level he wants to get involved . postdoc g : it 's premature . fine . good . professor b : uh , he might be excited to and it might be very appropriate for him to , uh , or he might have no interest whatsoever . i i just really do n't know . grad h : is he involved in ach ! { comment } i 'm blanking on the name of the project . nist has has done a big meeting room instrumented meeting room with video and microphone arrays , and very elaborate software . is is he the one working on that ? professor b : well that 's what they 're starting up . yeah . no , i mean , that 's what all this is about . they they have n't done it yet . they wanted to do it grad h : ok . i had read some papers that looked like they had already done some work . professor b : uh , well i think they 've instrumented a room but i do n't think they they have n't started recordings yet . they do n't have the t the transcription standards . they do n't have the phd e : are they going to do video as well ? professor b : yeah . i think . i think they are . grad h : oh , cuz what what i had read was , uh , they had a uh very large amount of software infrastructure for coordinating all this , both in terms of recording and also live room where you 're interacting the participants are interacting with the computer , and with the video , and lots of other stuff . professor b : well , i 'm i 'm i 'm not sure . all all i know is that they 've been talking to me about a project that they 're going to start up recording people meet in meetings . grad h : ok . well professor b : and , uh , it is related to ours . they were interested in ours . they wanted to get some uniformity with us , uh , about the transcriptions and so on . grad h : alright . professor b : and one one notable difference u u actually i ca n't remember whether they were going to routinely collect video or not , but one one , uh , difference from the audio side was that they are interested in using array mikes . so , um , i mean , i 'll just tell you the party line on that . the reason i did n't go for that here was because , uh , the focus , uh , both of my interest and of adam 's interest was uh , in impromptu situations . and we 're not recording a bunch of impromptu situations but that 's because it 's different to get data for research than to actually apply it . and so , uh , for scientific reasons we thought it was good to instrument this room as we wanted it . but the thing we ultimately wanted to aim at was a situation where you were talking with , uh , one or more other people i uh , in in an p impromptu way , where you did n't did n't actually know what the situation was going to be . and therefore it would not it 'd be highly unlikely that room would be outfitted with with some very carefully designed array of microphones . um , so it was only for that reason . it was just , you know , yet another piece of research and it seemed like we had enough troubles just phd e : so there 's no like portable array of mikes ? professor b : no . so there 's there 's uh , there 's a whole range of things there 's a whole array of things , that people do on this . so , um , the , uh the big arrays , uh , places , uh , like uh , rutgers , and brown , and other other places , uh , they have , uh , big arrays with , i do n't know , a hundred hundred mikes or something . grad h : xerox . professor b : and so there 's a wall of mikes . and you get really , really good beam - forming { comment } with that sort of thing . and it 's and , um , in fact at one point we had a a proposal in with rutgers where we were gon na do some of the sort of per channel signal - processing and they were gon na do the multi - channel stuff , but it d it d we ended up not doing it . but phd e : i 've seen demonstrations of the microphone arrays . it 's amazing how how they can cut out noise . professor b : yeah , it 's r it 's really neat stuff . grad h : and then they have little ones too professor b : and then they had the little ones , yeah . grad h : but i mean but they do n't have our block of wood , right ? professor b : yeah , our block of wood is unique . phd d : yeah . professor b : but the but the no , there are these commercial things now you can buy that have four mikes or something phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and and , uh , um so , yeah , there 's there 's there 's a range of things that people do . um , so if we connected up with somebody who was interested in doing that sort of thing that 's that 's a good thing to do . i mean , whenever i 've described this to other people who are interested on the with the acoustic side that 's invariably the question they ask . just like someone who is interested in the general dialogue thing will always ask `` um , are you recording video ? `` phd a : right , professor b : um , right ? phd a : right . professor b : and and the acoustic people will always say , `` well are you doing , uh , uh , array microphones ? `` so it 's it 's a good thing to do , but it does n't solve the problem of how do you solve things when there 's one mike or at best two mikes in in this imagined pda that we have . so maybe maybe we 'll do some more of it . postdoc g : well one thing i i mean , i do n't know . i mean , i know that having an array of i mean , i would imagine it would be more expensive to have a an array of microphones . but could n't you kind of approximate the natural sis situation by just shutting off uh , channels when you 're later on ? i mean , it seems like if the microphones do n't effect each other then could n't you just , you know , record them with an array and then just not use all the data ? grad h : it 's it 's just a lot of infrastructure that for our particular purpose we felt we did n't need to set up . postdoc g : i see . phd a : yeah . postdoc g : fine . professor b : yeah , if ninety - nine percent of what you 're doing is c is shutting off most of the mikes , then going through the but if you get somebody who 's who who has that as a primary interest then that put then that drives it in that direction . grad h : that 's right , i mean if someone if someone came in and said we really want to do it , phd a : right . grad h : i mean , we do n't care . that would be fine , phd e : so to save that data you you have to have one channel recording per mike in the array ? grad h : buy more disk space . professor b : well , uh , at some level at some level . phd e : is that grad h : i usually do a mix . professor b : but then , you know , there 's it there 's phd e : what you save , i mean , if you 're going to do research with it . yeah professor b : there 's i i do n't know what they 're going to do and i do n't know how big their array is . obviously if you were gon na save all of those channels for later research you 'd use up a lot of space . phd e : yeah . professor b : and , th grad h : well their software infrastructure had a very elaborate design for plugging in filters , and mixers , and all sorts of processing . so that they can do stuff in real time and not save out each channel individually . professor b : yeah . yeah . grad h : so it was , uh phd d : yeah . professor b : but i mean , uh , for optimum flexibility later you 'd want to save each channel . but i think in practical situations you would have some engine of some sort doing some processing to reduce this to some to the equivalent of a single microphone that was very directional . phd e : uh , oh , ok , i see . professor b : right ? phd a : i mean , it seems professor b : so phd e : sort of saving the result of the beam - forming . phd d : yeah . phd a : it seems to me that there 's you know , there are good political reasons for for doing this , just getting the data , because there 's a number of sites like right now sri is probably gon na invest a lot of internal funding into recording meetings also , which is good , um , but they 'll be recording with video and they 'll be you know , it 'd be nice if we can have at least , uh , make use of the data that we 're recording as we go since it 's sort of this is the first site that has really collected these really impromptu meetings , um , and just have this other information available . so , if we can get the investment in just for the infra infrastructure and then , i do n't know , save it out or have whoever 's interested save that data out , transfer it there , it 'd be g it 'd be good to have have the recording . i think . grad h : you mean to to actually get a microphone array and do that ? phd a : well , if even if we 're not grad h : and video and phd a : i 'm not sure about video . that 's sort of an video has a little different nature since right n right now we 're all being recorded but we 're not being taped . um , but it definitely in the case of microphone arrays , since if there was a community interested in this , then grad h : well , but i think we need a researcher here who 's interested in it . to push it along . professor b : see the problem is it it took , uh , uh , it took at least six months for dan to get together the hardware and the software , and debug stuff in in the microphones , and in the boxes . and it was a really big deal . and so i think we could get a microphone array in here pretty easily and , uh , have it mixed to to one channel of some sort . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but , e i think for i mean , how we 're gon na decide for for maximum flexibility later you really do n't want to end up with just one channel that 's pointed in the direction of the the the p the person with the maximum energy or something like that . i mean , you you want actually to you want actually to have multiple channels being recorded so that you can and to do that , it we 're going to end up greatly increasing the disk space that we use up , we also only have boards that will take up to sixteen channels and in this meeting , we 've got eight people and and six mikes . and there we 're already using fourteen . grad h : and we actually only have fifteen . one of them 's phd d : yeah . grad h : details . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . grad h : but fifteen , not sixteen . phd a : well if there 's a way to say time to sort of solve each of these f those professor b : yeah . phd a : so suppose you can get an array in because there 's some person at berkeley who 's interested and has some equipment , uh , and suppose we can as we save it we can , you know , transfer it off to some other place that that holds this this data , who 's interested , and even if icsi it itself is n't . um , and it it seems like as long as we can time align the beginning , do we need to mix it with the rest ? i do n't know . you know ? the professor b : yeah . so i think you 'd need a separate a separate set up phd a : so yeah . professor b : and the assumption that you could time align the two . phd a : i mean it 's just it 's worth considering as sort of grad h : and y it 'd certainly gets skew . phd a : once you make the up front investment { comment } and can sort of save it out each time , and and not have to worry about the disk space factor , then it mi it might be worth having the data . professor b : i 'm not so much worried about disk space actually . i mentioned that , b as a practical matter , grad h : just professor b : but the real issue is that , uh , there is no way to do a recording extended to what we have now with low skew . so you would have a t completely separate set up , phd a : right . professor b : which would mean that the sampling times and so forth would be all over the place compared to this . so it would depend on the level of pr processing you were doing later , but if you 're d i the kind of person who 's doing array processing you actually care about funny little times . and and so you actually wou would want to have a completely different set up than we have , phd a : i see . professor b : one that would go up to thirty - two channels or something . so basically grad h : or a hundred thirty - two . professor b : or a hun yeah . so , i 'm kinda skeptical , but um i think that so , uh , i do n't think we can share the resource in that way . but what we could do is if there was someone else who 's interested they could have a separate set up which they would n't be trying to synch with ours which might be useful for for them . phd a : right , i mean at least they 'd have the data and the transcripts , professor b : and then we can offer up the room , phd a : and right . professor b : yeah , we can o offer the meetings , and the physical space , and and yeah , the transcripts , and so on . phd a : ok . right , i mean , just it 'd be nice if we have more information on the same data . you know , and professor b : yeah . phd a : but it 's if it 's impossible or if it 's a lot of effort then you have to just balance the two , professor b : well i thi phd a : so professor b : yeah , the thing will be , u u in in again , in talking to these other people to see what you know , what what we can do . phd a : right . professor b : uh , we 'll see . phd e : is there an interest in getting video recordings for these meetings ? professor b : right , so we have we phd e : i mean grad h : yes , absolutely . but it 's exactly the same problem , that you have an infrastructure problem , you have a problem with people not wanting to be video taped , and you have the problem that no one who 's currently involved in the project is really hot to do it . phd e : hmm . so there 's not enough interest to overcome all of grad h : mm - hmm . phd a : right . internally , but i know there is interest from other places that are interested in looking at meeting data and having the video . so it 's just postdoc g : yeah , w although i m i i have to u u mention the human subjects problems , that i increase with video . phd a : right , that 's true . professor b : yeah , so it 's , uh , people people getting shy about it . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : there 's this human subjects problem . there 's the fact that then um , if i i i 've heard comments about this before , `` why do n't you just put on a video camera ? `` but you know , it 's sort of like saying , `` uh , well we 're primarily interested in in some dialogue things , uh , but , uh , why do n't we just throw a microphone out there . `` i mean , the thing is , once you actually have serious interest in any of these things then you actually have to put a lot of effort in . and , uh , you really want to do it right . grad h : i know . yep . professor b : so i think nist or ldc , or somebody like that i think is much better shape to do all that . we there will be other meeting recordings . we wo n't be the only place doing meeting recordings . we are doing what we 're doing . postdoc g : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh , hopefully it 'll be useful . postdoc g : i it it occurred to me , has don signed a human subject 's form ? grad h : oh ! probably not . postdoc g : a permission form ? grad h : has don have you s did you si i thought you did actually . grad f : i was yeah , i was i was here i was here before once . grad h : did n't you read a digit string ? phd e : you were here at a meeting before . postdoc g : you were here at a meeting before . phd e : yeah . grad h : yeah , and you and you signed a form . grad f : oh , i think so . postdoc g : did you sign a form ? grad f : did i ? i do n't know . grad h : i 'm pretty sure . well i 'll i 'll get another one before the end of the meeting . professor b : yeah . grad h : thank you . grad f : yeah . professor b : yeah . postdoc g : you do n't you do n't have to leave for it . professor b : yeah , we we postdoc g : but i just grad f : can i verbally consent ? postdoc g : you know . grad h : well i ca n't , i 'm wired in . professor b : we we we we do n't , uh phd a : yeah . you 're on recor you 're being recorded grad f : yeah . phd a : and professor b : we do n't we do n't perform electro - shock during these meetings , grad f : i do n't care . you can do whatever you want with it . professor b : and phd e : usually . grad f : that 's fine . professor b : yeah . ok . uh , transcriptions . postdoc g : transcriptions , ok . um , i thought about there are maybe three aspects of this . so first of all , um , i 've got eight transcribers . uh , seven of them are linguists . one of them is a graduate student in psychology . um , each i gave each of them , uh , their own data set . two of them have already finished the data sets . and the meetings run , you know , let 's say an hour . sometimes as man much as an hour and a half . phd e : how big is the data set ? postdoc g : oh , it 's what i mean is one meeting . phd e : ah , ok . postdoc g : each each person got their own meeting . i did n't want to have any conflicts of , you know , of of when to stop transcribing this one or so i wanted to keep it clear whose data were whose , and and and so phd e : uh - huh . postdoc g : and , uh , meetings , you know , i think that they 're they go as long as a almost two hours in some in some cases . so , you know , that means you know , if we 've got two already finished and they 're working on uh , right now all eight of them have differe uh , uh , additional data sets . that means potentially as many as ten might be finished by the end of the month . hope so . but the pre - segmentation really helps a huge amount . and , uh , also dan ellis 's innovation of the , uh the multi - channel to here really helped a r a lot in terms of clearing clearing up h hearings that involve overlaps . but , um , just out of curiosity i asked one of them how long it was taking her , one of these two who has already finished her data set . she said it takes about , uh , sixty minutes transcription for every five minutes of real time . so it 's about twelve to one , which is what we were thinking . grad h : or yep . postdoc g : it 's well in the range . grad h : it 's pretty good . postdoc g : ok . uh , these still , when they 're finished , um , that means that they 're finished with their pass through . they still need to be edited and all but but it 's word level , speaker change , the things that were mentioned . ok , now i wanted to mention the , um , teleconference i had with , uh , jonathan fiscus . we spoke for an hour and a half and , um , had an awful lot of things in common . he , um , um , he in indicated to me that they 've that he 's been , uh , looking , uh , uh , spending a lot of time with i 'm not quite sure the connection , but spending a lot of time with the atlas system . and i guess that i mean , i i need to read up on that . and there 's a web site that has lots of papers . but it looks to me like that 's the name that has developed for the system that bird and liberman developed { comment } for the annotated graphs approach . grad h : mm - hmm . postdoc g : so what he wants me to do and what we what we will do and uh , is to provide them with the u already transcribed meeting for him to be able to experiment with in this atlas system . and they do have some sort of software , at least that 's my impression , related to atlas and that he wants to experiment with taking our data and putting them in that format , and see how that works out . i i i explained to him in in detail the , uh , conventions that we 're using here in this in this word level transcript . and , um , you know , i i explained , you know , the reasons that that we were not coding more elaborately and and the focus on reliability . he expressed a lot of interest in reliability . it 's like he 's he 's really up on these things . he 's he 's very um , independently he asked , `` well what about reliability ? `` so , he 's interested in the consistency of the encoding and that sort of thing . ok , um phd a : sorry , can you explain what the atlas i 'm not familiar with this atlas system . postdoc g : well , you know , at this point i think uh , well adam 's read more in more detail than i have on this . i need to acquaint myself more with it . but , um , there there is a way of viewing uh , whenever you have coding categories , um , and you 're dealing with uh , a taxonomy , then you can have branches that that have alternative , uh , choices that you could use for each each of them . and it just ends up looking like a graphical representation . grad h : is is is atlas the his annotated transcription graph stuff ? i do n't remember the acronym . the the one the what i think you 're referring to , they they have this concept of an an annotated transcription graph representation . phd a : oh . oh . postdoc g : yeah . grad h : and that 's basically what i based the format that i did i based it on their work almost directly , in combination with the tei stuff . and so it 's very , very similar . and so it 's it 's a data representation and a set of tools for manipulating transcription graphs of various types . phd e : is this the project that 's sort of , uh , between , uh , nist and and , uh , a couple of other places ? postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd e : the the postdoc g : including ldc . phd e : yeah , postdoc g : i think so . phd e : y right , ok . postdoc g : mm - hmm . then there 's their web site that has lots of papers . and i looked through them and they mainly had to do with this , um , this , uh , tree structure , uh , annotated tree diagram thing . so , um , um and , you know , in terms of like the conventions that i 'm a that i 've adopted , it there there 's no conflict at all . grad h : right . postdoc g : and he was , you know , very interested . and , `` oh , and how 'd you handle this ? `` and i said , `` well , you know , this way `` and and and we had a really nice conversation . um , ok , now i also wanted to say in a different a different direction is , brian kingsbury . so , um , i corresponded briefly with him . i , uh , c i he still has an account here . i told him he could ssh on and use multi - trans , and have a look at the already done , uh , transcription . and he and he did . and what he said was that , um , what they 'll be providing is will not be as fine grained in terms of the time information . and , um , that 's , uh you know , i need to get back to him and and , uh , you know , explore that a little bit more and see what they 'll be giving us in specific , phd e : the p the people postdoc g : but i just have n't had time yet . phd e : the the folks that they 're , uh , subcontracting out the transcription to , are they like court reporters postdoc g : sorry , what ? yes . phd e : or postdoc g : apparently well , i get the sense they 're kind of like that . like it 's like a pool of of somewhat uh , secretarial i do n't think that they 're court reporters . i do n't think they have the special keyboards and that and that type of training . phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc g : i i get the sense they 're more secretarial . and that , um , uh , what they 're doing is giving them phd e : hmm . like medical transcriptionist type people grad h : nu - it 's mostly it 's for their speech recognition products , phd e : but are n't they 're grad h : that they 've hired these people to do . phd e : oh , so they 're hiring them , they 're coming . it 's not a service they send the tapes out to . grad h : well they they do send it out but my understanding is that that 's all this company does is transcriptions for ibm for their speech product . phd e : ah ! oh . ok . i gotcha . grad h : so most of it 's viavoice , people reading their training material for that . phd e : i see . postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd e : i see . postdoc g : up to now it 's been monologues , uh , as far my understood . grad h : yep , exactly . postdoc g : and and what they 're doing is phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc g : brian himself downloaded so so , um , adam sent them a cd and brian himself downloaded uh , cuz , you know , i mean , we wanted to have it so that they were in familiar f terms with what they wanted to do . he downloaded from the cd onto audio tapes . and apparently he did it one channel per audio tape . so each of these people is transcribing from one channel . grad h : right . postdoc g : and then what he 's going to do is check it , a before they go be beyond the first one . check it and , you know , adjust it , and all that . phd e : so each person gets one of these channels grad h : right . professor b : so if they hear something off in the distance they do n't they just go postdoc g : i i do n't know . grad h : well , but that 's ok , because , you know , you 'll do all them and then combine them . phd e : but there could be problems , right ? with that . postdoc g : i have t i , you know i i think it would be difficult to do it that way . i really phd a : yeah . phd e : well if you 're tran if you got that channel right there postdoc g : d uh , in my case phd c : yeah . grad h : no , no . we 're talking about close talking , not the not the desktop . phd d : no , close talk . professor b : are you ? postdoc g : yes . well i th i think so . grad h : i sure hope so . it 'd be really foolish to do otherwise . postdoc g : yeah , i i would think that it would be kind of hard to come out with yeah . phd a : i i think it 's sort of hard just playing the you know , just having played the individual files . and i i mean , i know you . i know what your voice sounds like . i 'm sort of familiar with phd c : yeah . phd a : uh , it 's pretty hard to follow , especially grad h : one side . phd a : there are a lot of words that are so reduced phonetically that make sense when you know what the person was saying before . postdoc g : i agree . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah , that 's phd a : uh , it sort of depends where you are in postdoc g : and especially since a lot of these phd d : yeah . grad h : but i mean we had this we 've had this discussion many times . postdoc g : yeah , we have . grad h : and the answer is we do n't actually know the answer because we have n't tried both ways . postdoc g : well , except i can say that my transcribers use the mixed signal mostly grad h : so . mm - hmm . phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : right . postdoc g : unless there 's a huge disparity in terms of the volume on on the mix . in which case , you know , they they would n't be able to catch anything except the prominent { comment } channel , grad h : right . phd c : yeah . postdoc g : then they 'll switch between . grad h : well i think that that might change if you wanted really fine time markings . postdoc g : but but really well , ok . professor b : but they 're not giving f really fine time markings . postdoc g : yeah , well phd a : actually , are th so are they giving any time markings ? grad h : right . phd a : in other words , if postdoc g : well , i have to ask him . phd a : yeah . postdoc g : and that 's that 's my email to him . that needs to be forthcoming . phd a : cuz ok . postdoc g : but but the , uh i did want to say that it 's hard to follow one channel of a conversation even if you know the people , and if you 're dealing furthermore with highly abstract network concepts you 've never heard of so , you know , one of these people was was transcribing the , uh , networks group talk and she said , `` i do n't really know what a lot of these abbreviations are , `` `` but i just put them in parentheses cuz that 's the that 's the convention and i just `` cuz you know , if you do n't know grad h : oh , i 'd be curious to to look at that . phd e : just out of curiosity , i mean grad h : they also all have h heavy accents . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . postdoc g : yeah . grad h : the networks group meetings are all phd e : given all of the effort that is going on here in transcribing why do we have i b m doing it ? why not just do it all ourselves ? professor b : um , it 's historical . i mean , uh , some point ago we thought that uh , it `` boy , we 'd really have to ramp up to do that `` , phd c : uh - huh . phd d : no , just professor b : you know , like we just did , and , um , here 's , uh , a a , uh , collaborating institution that 's volunteered to do it . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : so , that was a contribution they could make . uh in terms of time , money , you know ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and it still might be a good thing phd e : i 'm just wondering now phd a : actu yeah , mar - mari asked me the same question as sort of professor b : but phd e : well , i 'm i 'm wondering now if it 's grad h : well we can talk about more details later . phd a : um , you know , yeah , whether to professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah , so . we 'll see . i mean , i think , th you know , they they they 've proceeded along a bit . let 's see what comes out of it , and and , uh , you know , have some more discussions with them . postdoc g : mm - hmm . it 's very a real benefit having brian involved because of his knowledge of what the how the data need to be used and so what 's useful to have in the format . grad h : yeah . professor b : mm - hmm . yeah . grad h : so , um , liz , with with the sri recognizer , { comment } can it make use of some time marks ? phd a : ok , so this is a , um , grad h : i i guess i do n't know what that means . phd a : and actually i should say this is what don has b uh , he 's already been really helpful in , uh , chopping up these so so first of all you um , i mean , for the sri front - end , we really need to chop things up into pieces that are f not too huge . um , but second of all , uh in general because some of these channels , i 'd say , like , i do n't know , at least half of them probably { comment } on average are g are ha are have a lot of cross - ta sorry , some of the segments have a lot of cross - talk . um , it 's good to get sort of short segments if you 're gon na do recognition , especially forced alignment . so , uh , don has been taking a first stab actually using jane 's first the fir the meeting that jane transcribed which we did have some problems with , and thilo , uh , i think told me why this was , but that people were switching microphones around { comment } in the very beginning , so the sri re phd c : no , th yeah . no . they they were not switching them but what they were they were adjusting them , phd a : and they they were not grad h : adjusting . oh . phd a : yeah . phd c : and aft after a minute or so it 's it 's way better . phd a : so we have to sort of normalize { comment } the front - end and so forth , and have these small segments . phd c : so yep . phd a : so we 've taken that and chopped it into pieces based always on your your , um , cuts that you made on the mixed signal . and so that every every speaker has the same cuts . and if they have speech in it we run it through . and if they do n't have speech in it we do n't run it through . and we base that knowledge on the transcription . grad h : on just on the marks . right ? phd a : um , the problem is if we have no time marks , then for forced alignment we actually do n't know where you know , in the signal the transcriber heard that word . and so grad h : oh , i see , phd a : i mean , if if it 's a whole conversation and we get a long , uh , you know , par paragraph of of talk , grad h : it 's for the length . i see . phd a : uh , i do n't know how they do this . um , we actually do n't know which piece goes where . grad h : i understand . phd a : and , um , i think with phd e : well you would need to like a forced alignment before you did the chopping , right ? phd a : no , we used the fact that so when jane transcribes them the way she has transcribers doing this , whether it 's with the pre - segmentation or not , grad h : it 's already chunked . phd a : they have a chunk and then they transcribes { comment } the words in the chunk . and maybe they choose the chunk or now they use a pre - segmentation and then correct it if necessary . but there 's first a chunk and then a transcription . postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : then a chunk , then a transcription . that 's great , cuz the recognizer can grad h : uh , it 's all pretty good sized for the recognizer also . phd a : right , and it it helps that it 's made based on sort of heuristics and human ear i think . postdoc g : good . oh good . phd a : th - but there 's going to be a real problem , uh , even if we chop up based on speech silence these , uh , the transcripts from i b m , we do n't actually know where the words were , which segment they belonged to . grad h : right . phd a : so that 's sort of what i 'm worried about right now . phd e : why not do a a a forced alignment ? grad h : that 's what she 's saying , is that you ca n't . phd a : if you do a forced alignment on something really grad h : got uh six sixty minutes of phd a : well even if you do it on something really long you need to know you can always chop it up but you need to have a reference of which words went with which , uh , chop . postdoc g : now was n't i thought that one of the proposals was that ibm was going to do an initial forced alignment , phd a : so postdoc g : after they grad h : yeah , but professor b : i i think that they are , grad h : we 'll have to talk to brian . professor b : um , yeah , i 'm sure they will and so we we have to have a dialogue with them about it . phd a : yeah . professor b : i mean , it sounds like liz has some concerns phd a : maybe they have some you know , maybe actually there is some , even if they 're not fine grained , maybe the transcribers professor b : and phd a : uh , i do n't know , maybe it 's saved out in pieces or or something . that would help . postdoc g : yeah . phd a : but , uh , it 's just an unknown right now . postdoc g : yeah . i i need to to write to him . i just you know , it 's like i got over - taxed with the timing . phd a : right . but the it is true that the segments i have n't tried the segments that thilo gave you but the segments that in your first meeting are great . postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : i mean , that 's that 's a good length . postdoc g : a good size . good . phd a : right , cuz postdoc g : well , i i was thinking it would be fun to to uh , uh , if if you would n't mind , { comment } to give us a pre - segmentation . phd a : y yeah . phd c : yeah . postdoc g : uh , maybe you have one already of that first m of the meeting that uh , the first transcribed meeting , the one that i transcribed . phd c : um , i 'm sure i have some postdoc g : do you have a could you generate a pre - segmentation ? grad h : february sixteenth i think . phd c : but but that 's the one where we 're , um , trai training on , so that 's a little bit postdoc g : oh , i see . phd c : it 's a little bit at odd to postdoc g : oh , darn . of course , of course , of course . yeah , ok . phd c : yeah . phd a : and actually as you get transcripts just , um , for new meetings , { comment } um , we can try postdoc g : uh - huh . phd a : i mean , the the more data we have to try the the alignments on , um , the better . so it 'd be good for just to know as transcriptions are coming through the pipeline from the transcribers , just to sort of we 're playing around with sort of uh , parameters f on the recognizer , postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : cuz that would be helpful . especially as you get , en more voices . postdoc g : excellent , good . phd a : the first meeting had i think just four people , phd c : four speakers , yeah . postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : yeah . postdoc g : yeah , liz and i spoke d w at some length on tuesday and and i and i was planning to do just a a preliminary look over of the two that are finished and then give them to you . phd a : oh , great , great . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : that 's great . i guess the other thing , i i ca n't remember if we discussed this in the meeting but , uh , i know you and i talked about this a little bit , there was an issue of , uh , suppose we get in the , uh , i guess it 's enviable position although maybe it 's just saying where the weak link is in the chain , uh , where we we , uh uh , we have all the data transcribed and we have these transcribers and we were we 're the we 're still a bit slow on feeding at that point we 've caught up and the the the , uh , the weak link is is recording meetings . ok , um , two questions come , is you know what how how do we uh , it 's not really a problem at the moment cuz we have n't reached that point but how do we step out the recorded meetings ? and the other one is , um , uh , is there some good use that we can make of the transcribers to do other things ? so , um , i i ca n't remember how much we talked about this in this meeting but there was grad h : we had spoken with them about it . postdoc g : and there is one use that that also we discussed which was when , uh , dave finishes the and maybe it 's already finished the the modification to multi - trans which will allow fine grained encoding of overlaps . uh , then it would be very these people would be very good to shift over to finer grain encoding of overlaps . it 's just a matter of , you know , providing so if right now you have two overlapping segments in the same time bin , well with with the improvement in the database in in the , uh , sorry , in the interface , it 'd be possible to , um , you know , just do a click and drag thing , and get the uh , the specific place of each of those , the time tag associated with the beginning and end of of each segment . professor b : right , so i think we talking about three level three things . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : one one was uh , we had s had some discussion in the past about some very high level labelings , postdoc g : yeah . the types of overlaps professor b : types of overlaps , and so forth that that someone could do . second was , uh , somewhat lower level postdoc g : mm - hmm . professor b : just doing these more precise timings . and the third one is is , uh , just a completely wild hair brained idea that i have which is that , um , if , uh if we have time and people are able to do it , to take some subset of the data and do some very fine grained analysis of the speech . for instance , uh , marking in some overlapping potentially overlapping fashion , uh , the value of , uh , ar articulatory features . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : you know , just sort of say , ok , it 's voiced from here to here , there 's it 's nasal from here to here , and so forth . um , as opposed to doing phonetic uh , you know , phonemic and the phonetic analysis , and , uh , assuming , uh , articulatory feature values for those those things . um , obviously that 's extremely time - consuming . uh phd e : that would be really valuable i think . professor b : but , uh , we could do it on some small subset . postdoc g : also if you 're dealing with consonants that would be easier than vowels , would n't it ? i mean , i would think that that , uh , being able to code that there 's a a fricative extending from here to here would be a lot easier than classifying precisely which vowel that was . grad h : which one . professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc g : i think vowels vowels are i think harder . professor b : well , yeah , phd c : yeah . professor b : but i think also it 's just the issue that that when you look at the u w u u when you look at switchboard for instance very close up there are places where whether it 's a consonant or a vowel you still have trouble calling it a particular phone postdoc g : mm - hmm . professor b : at that point postdoc g : mm - hmm , ok . grad h : yeah , but but just saying what the professor b : because it 's you know , there 's this movement from here to here postdoc g : yeah , i 'm sure . uh , yeah , i i know . phd a : right . professor b : and and and it 's so i phd e : you 're saying r sort of remove the high level constraints and go bottom - up . professor b : yeah , describe describe it . phd e : then just say grad h : yep , just features . professor b : now i 'm suggesting articulatory features . maybe there 's there 's even a better way to do it but it but but that 's , you know , sort of a traditional way of describing these things , phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : um , and uh , i mean , actually this might be a g neat thing to talk to postdoc g : that 's nice . phd e : acoustic features versus psychological categories . professor b : sort of . i mean , it 's still phd e : yeah . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : some sort of categories but but something that allows for overlapping change of these things and then this would give some more ground work for people who were building statistical models that allowed for overlapping changes , different timing changes as opposed to just `` click , you 're now in this state , which corresponds to this speech sound `` and so on . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd a : so this is like gestural uh , these g professor b : yeah , something like that . phd a : right . ok . professor b : i mean , actually if we get into that it might be good to , uh , uh , haul john ohala into this phd a : right . professor b : and ask his his views on it i think . grad h : yeah . phd a : but is is the goal there to have this on meeting data , postdoc g : excellent . phd a : like so that you can do far field studies { comment } of those gestures or um , or is it because you think there 's a different kind of actual production in meetings { comment } that people use ? or ? professor b : no , i think i think it 's for for for that purpose i 'm just viewing meetings as being a a neat way to get people talking naturally . and then you have i and then and then it 's natural in all senses , phd e : just a source of data ? phd a : i see . professor b : in the sense that you have microphones that are at a distance that you know , one might have , and you have the close mikes , and you have people talking naturally . and the overlap is just indicative of the fact that people are talking naturally , phd a : uh - huh . phd d : yeah . phd a : right . professor b : right ? so so i think that given that it 's that kind of corpus , phd d : yeah . professor b : if it 's gon na be a very useful corpus um , if you say w ok , we 've limited the use by some of our , uh , uh , censored choices , we do n't have the video , we do n't and so forth , but there 's a lot of use that we could make of it by expanding the annotation choices . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh , most of the things we 've talked about have been fairly high level , and being kind of a bottom - up person i thought maybe we 'd , do some of the others . phd a : right . yeah , that would be good . postdoc g : it 's a nice balance . professor b : yeah . postdoc g : that would be really nice to offer those things with that wide range . phd a : right . professor b : yeah and hopefully someone would make use of it . postdoc g : really nice . professor b : i mean , people did n't postdoc g : yeah . professor b : uh , i mean , people have made a lot of use of of timit and , uh w due to its markings , and then the switchboard transcription thing , well i think has been very useful for a lot of people . grad h : right . phd a : that 's true . professor b : so phd a : i guess i wanted to , um , sort of make a pitch for trying to collect more meetings . postdoc g : cool . professor b : yeah . phd a : i actually i talked to chuck fillmore and i think they 've what , vehemently said no before but this time he was n't vehement and he said you know , `` well , liz , come to the meeting tomorrow professor b : yeah . phd a : and try to convince people `` . so i 'm gon na try . go to their meeting tomorrow and see if we can try , uh , to convince them postdoc g : mm - hmm . good . professor b : cuz they have something like three or four different meetings , phd a : because they have and they have very interesting meetings from the point of view of a very different type of of talk than we have here professor b : right ? postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd d : talk phd a : and definitely than the front end meeting , probably . um phd e : you mean in terms of the topic topics ? phd a : well , yes and in terms of the the fact that they 're describing abstract things and , uh , just dialogue - wise , professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : right . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : um , so i 'll try . and then the other thing is , i do n't know if this is at all useful , but i asked lila if i can maybe go around and talk to the different departments in this building to see if there 's any groups that , for a free lunch , if we can still offer that , might be willing professor b : great . grad h : you mean non - icsi ? phd a : non - icsi , non - academic , grad h : yeah , i guess you you can try phd a : you know , like government people , grad h : but phd a : i do n't know . grad h : the problem is so much of their stuff is confidential . phd d : yeah . postdoc g : yeah . grad h : it would be very hard for them . phd a : is is it in these departments ? phd d : yeah . postdoc g : also it does seem like it takes us way out of the demographic . i mean , it seems like we we had this idea before of having like linguistics students brought down for free lunches grad h : well , tha i think that 's her point . postdoc g : and that 's a nice idea . phd a : right , and then we could also we might try advertising again because i think it 'd be good if if we can get a few different sort of non - internal types of meetings postdoc g : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd a : and just also more data . so . phd e : does does john ohala have weekly phonetics lab meetings ? postdoc g : mm - hmm . grad h : and i think , uh , if we could get phd a : so i actually wrote to him and he answered , `` great , that sounds really interesting `` . but i never heard back because we did n't actually advertise openly . we a i mean w i told i d asked him privately . um , and it is a little bit of a trek for campus folks . postdoc g : mm - hmm . grad h : yeah . you might give them a free lunch . phd a : um , so it 's still worthwhile . grad h : but , um , it would be nice if we got someone other than me who knew how to set it up and could do the recording phd a : so grad h : so u i did n't have to do it each time . phd a : exactly , and and postdoc g : yeah . that 's right . phd a : and i was thinking professor b : he - he 's supposed he 's supposed to be trained to do it . phd a : yeah . plus we could also get you know , a s a student . grad h : ok , next week you 're going to do it all . phd d : yeah . phd a : and i 'm willing to try to learn . i mean , i 'm i would do my best . um , the other thing is that there was a number of things at the transcription side that , um , transcribers can do , like dialogue act tagging , grad h : it 's not that hard . phd a : disfluency tagging , um , things that are in the speech that are actually something we 're y { comment } working on for language modeling . and mari 's also interested in it , andreas as well . so if you wan na process a utterance and the first thing they say is , `` well `` , and that `` well `` is coded as some kind of interrupt u tag . uh , and things like that , um , th postdoc g : of course some of that can be li done lexically . phd a : a lot of it can be done postdoc g : and i also they are doing disfluency tagging to some degree already . phd a : great . so a a lot of this kind of postdoc g : yeah . phd a : i think there 's a second pass and i do n't really know what would exist in it . but there 's definitely a second pass worth doing to maybe encode some kinds of , you know , is it a question or not , postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : or um , that maybe these transcribers could do . so yeah . postdoc g : they 'd be really good . they 're they 're very they 're very consistent . phd a : that 'd be great . professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc g : uh , i wanted to whi while we 're uh , so , to return just briefly to this question of more meeting data , um i have two questions . one of them is , um , jerry feldman 's group , they they , uh , are they i know that they recorded one meeting . are they willing ? professor b : i think they 're open to it . i think , you know , all these things are phd a : oh , yeah . professor b : i think there 's we should go beyond , uh , icsi but , i mean , there 's a lot of stuff happening at icsi that we 're not getting now that we could . phd a : oh , that we could . professor b : so it 's just postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : ok . i thought that all these people had sort of said `` no `` twice already . professor b : yeah . so the phd a : if that 's not the case then professor b : no , no . no . so th there was the thing in fillmore 's group but even there he had n't what he 'd said `` no `` to was for the main meeting . but they have several smaller meetings a week , and , uh , the notion was raised before that that could happen . and it just , you know it just did n't come together phd a : just ok . phd e : well , and and the other thing too is when they originally said `` no `` they did n't know about this post - editing capability thing . professor b : but phd a : right . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd a : right . that was a big fear . postdoc g : that 's important . professor b : yeah , so i mean there 's possibilities there . i think jerry 's group , yes . uh , there 's there 's , uh , the networks group , uh , i do n't do they still meeting regularly or ? grad h : well , i do n't know if they meet regularly or not but they are no longer recording . professor b : but i mean , ha ha have they said they do n't want to anymore or ? grad h : um , ugh , what was his name ? professor b : uh , i i postdoc g : joe sokol ? grad h : yeah . professor b : yeah . grad h : when with him gone , it sorta trickled off . professor b : ok , so they 're down to three or four people grad h : they and they stopped yeah . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but the thing is three or four people is ok . postdoc g : we might be able to get the administration grad h : well he was sort of my contact , so i just need to find out who 's running it now . postdoc g : i see that lila has a luncheon meeting in here periodically . phd a : yeah , i mean , it one thing that would be nice postdoc g : i do n't know phd a : and this it sounds bizarre but , i 'd really like to look at to get some meetings where there 's a little bit of heated discussion , like ar arguments and or emotion , and things like that . and so i was thinking if there 's any like berkeley political groups or something . i mean , that 'd be perfect . some group , `` yes , we must `` grad h : who 's willing to get recorded and distributed ? phd a : well , you know , something phd c : yeah . grad f : yeah , i do n't think the more political argumentative ones would be willing to phd a : um professor b : yeah , with with with potential use from the defense department . phd d : yeah . phd a : well , ok . professor b : yeah . phd a : no , but maybe stu student , uh , groups or , um , film - makers , or som something a little bit colorful . phd c : yeah . grad f : yeah . exactly . postdoc g : yeah . grad h : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor b : yeah . yeah , th there 's a problem there in terms of , uh , the um commercial value of of st uh , postdoc g : yeah , of course there is this problem though , that if we give them the chance to excise later we e might end up with like five minutes out of a f { comment } of m one hour phd d : film - maker . grad h : of beeps , phd c : yeah . yeah . grad h : yeah . phd a : and i do n't mean that they 're angry phd d : is postdoc g : of { comment } yes . really . phd a : but just something with some more variation in prosodic contours and so forth would be neat . so if anyone has ideas , i 'm willing to do the leg work to go try to talk to people but i do n't really know which groups are worth pursuing . postdoc g : well there was this k p f a grad h : no that 's postdoc g : but ok . grad h : legal . postdoc g : ok , ok . professor b : it it it it turned out to be a bit of a problem . phd a : or postdoc g : and i had one other one other aspect of this which is , um , uh , uh , jonathan fiscus expressed primar uh y a major interest in having meetings which were all english speakers . now he was n't trying to shape us in terms of what we gather professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc g : but that 's what he wanted me to show him . so i 'm giving him our , um our initial meeting because he asked for all english . and i think we do n't have a lot of all english meetings right now . professor b : of all all nat all native speakers . phd e : did he mean , uh did he mean and non - british ? grad h : well phd c : the all native . postdoc g : that 's what i mean , yeah . grad h : well if he meant and non - british i think we have zero . postdoc g : he does n't care . no . eh , well , british is ok . phd e : he said british was ok ? postdoc g : but but sure , sure , sure . grad h : british is english ? postdoc g : yeah . different varieties of english . phd c : ooo , ooo . professor b : well , i do n't i do n't i do n't think if he did n't say that postdoc g : native speaking . native speaking english . grad h : i bet he meant native speaking american . professor b : i bet he did . phd c : american english ? postdoc g : oh , really . grad h : so , why would he care ? phd e : knowing the application phd a : that 's professor b : i remember wh i i remember a study phd a : i was thinking , knowing the , uh , n national institute of standards , it is all professor b : i remember a study that bbn did where they trained on this was in wall street journal days or something , they trained on american english and then they tested on , uh , different native speakers from different areas . and , uh , uh , the worst match was people whose native tongue was mandarin chinese . the second worst was british english . postdoc g : that 's funny . professor b : so h it 's , you know , t postdoc g : alright . and so that would make sense . professor b : the the the german was much better , phd c : ooo , ooo . postdoc g : i did n't have the context of that . professor b : it was swiss w yeah , so it 's so i think , you know , if he 's if he 's thinking in terms of recognition kind of technology i i i think he would probably want , uh american english , postdoc g : all america , ok . grad h : i wonder if we have any . professor b : yeah . it it yeah , unless we 're gon na train with a whole bunch of postdoc g : i think that the feldman 's meetings tend to be more that way , are n't they ? i mean , i sort of feel like they have professor b : i think so , grad h : maybe . phd a : yeah , professor b : yeah . grad h : maybe . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . grad h : and maybe there are a few of with us where it was professor b : yeah . grad h : you know , dan was n't there and before jose started coming , professor b : yeah . phd d : yeah . grad h : and professor b : it 's pretty tough , uh , this group . yeah . grad h : yeah . professor b : so , uh , what about what about people who involved in some artistic endeavor ? phd d : yeah . professor b : i mean , film - making or something like that . phd a : exactly , that 's what i was professor b : you 'd think like they would be phd d : a film - maker . phd a : something where there there is actually discussion where there 's no right or wrong answer but but it 's a matter of opinion kind of thing . uh , anyway , if you if you have ideas postdoc g : it 's be fun . grad h : rasta . plp . rasta . plp . grad f : we can just discu we can just have a political discussion one day . phd a : yeah , we could phd e : a any department that calls itself science phd d : department . grad f : uh , i could make that pretty phd d : yeah . grad h : well , like computer science . phd d : computer sci grad h : that postdoc g : we could get julia child . i know . phd a : i 'm i 'm actually serious grad h : that 's phd a : because , uh , you know , we have the set up here grad h : got a ticket . professor b : yeah , i know you are . phd a : and and that that has a chance to give us some very interesting fun data . so if anyone has ideas , phd d : yeah . phd a : if you know any groups that are m you know , professor b : yeah . phd d : yeah . grad h : well i had asked some some of the students at the business school . phd a : student groups c like clubs , things like that . grad f : i know grad h : i could phd a : not not professor b : put a little ad up saying , `` come here and argue `` . phd a : yeah . `` if you 're really angry at someone use our conference room . `` grad h : the business school . uh , the business school might be good . i actually spoke with some students up there phd a : oh , ok . grad h : and they they they expressed willingness back when they thought they would be doing more stuff with speech . phd a : really . grad h : but when they lost interest in speech they also stopped answering my email about other stuff , so . phd a : or people who are really h professor b : they could have a discussion about te grad f : i grad h : we should probably bleep that out . professor b : about about tax cuts or something . grad f : i heard that at cal tech they have a special room someone said that they had a special room to get all your frustrations out that you can go to and like throw things and break things . professor b : yeah , now that is not actually what we grad f : so we can like post a grad h : th - that 's not what we want . grad f : no , not to that extent phd a : well , far field mikes can pick up where they threw stuff on the wall . grad f : but , um . yeah . professor b : yeah , but we do n't want them to throw the far field mikes is the thing . phd a : oh . yeah , right . grad h : that 's right . phd d : the fa grad f : yeah . grad h : `` please throw everything in that direction . `` professor b : yeah . anyway . grad h : padded cell . postdoc g : it 'd be fun to get like a a p visit from the grad h : there was a dorm room at tech that , uh , someone had coated the walls and the ceiling , and , uh , the floor with mattresses . the entire room . professor b : i had as my fourth thing here processing of wave forms . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : what did we mean by that ? remember @ @ ? grad h : uh , liz wanted to talk about methods of improving accuracy by doing pre - processing . postdoc g : pre - processing . phd a : well i think that that was just sort of i i already asked thilo professor b : oh , you already did that . phd a : but that , um , it would be helpful if i can stay in the loop somehow with , um , people who are doing any kind of post - processing , whether it 's to separate speakers or to improve the signal - to - noise ratio , or both , um , that we can sort of try out as we 're running recognition . um , so , i is that who else is work i guess dan ellis and you phd c : dan , yeah . professor b : yeah , and dave uh gel - gelbart again , phd a : and dave . phd d : yeah . professor b : he 's he 's interested in in fact we 're look starting to look at some echo cancellation kind of things . which uh grad h : i am not sure how much that 's an issue with the close talking mikes , but who knows ? professor b : well , let 's w i is n't that what what you want phd a : i do n't know . i 'm bad professor b : t no , so no , i w wha what you what you want when you 're saying improving the wave form you want the close talking microphone to be better . phd a : it 's like { comment } like professor b : right ? grad h : right . professor b : and the question is to w to what extent is it getting hurt by , uh by any room acoustics or is it just uh , given that it 's close it 's not a problem ? phd a : it does n't seem like big room acoustics problems to my ear professor b : uh phd a : but i 'm not an expert . it seems like a problem with cross - talk . professor b : ok , so it 's phd c : yeah . grad h : e i bet with the lapel mike there 's plenty , uh , room acoustic phd a : that that may be true . grad h : but i i think the rest is cross - talk . phd a : but i do n't know how good it can get either by those the those methods grad h : yeah . phd a : that 's true . grad h : so i i think it 's just , phd a : oh , i do n't know . grad h : yeah , what you said , cross - talk . phd a : all i meant is just that as sort of as this pipeline of research is going on we 're also experimenting with different asr , uh , techniques . grad h : mm - hmm . phd a : and so it 'd be w good to know about it . phd e : so the problem is like , uh , on the microphone of somebody who 's not talking they 're picking up signals from other people { comment } and that 's causing problems ? phd a : r right , although if they 're not talking , using the the inhouse transcriptions , were sort of o k because the t no one transcribed any words there and we throw it out . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : but if they 're talking at all and they 're not talking the whole time , so you get some speech and then a `` mm - hmm `` , and some more speech , so that whole thing is one chunk . and the person in the middle who said only a little bit is picking up the speech around it , that 's where it 's a big problem . postdoc g : you know , this does like seem like it would relate to some of what jose 's been working on as well , the encoding of the phd d : yeah . postdoc g : and and he also , he was phd a : the energy , phd d : yeah , phd a : right . exactly . phd d : energy . postdoc g : i was t i was trying to remember , you have this interface where you i you ha you showed us one time on your laptop that you you had different visual displays as speech and nonspeech events . phd d : yeah , c yeah . may i i only display the different colors for the different situation . but , eh , for me and for my problems , is uh is enough . because , eh , it 's possible , eh , eh , in a simp sample view , uh , to , nnn , to compare with c with the segment , the the kind of assessment what happened with the the different parameters . and only with a different bands of color for the , uh , few situation , eh , i consider for acoustic event is enough to @ @ . postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd d : i i i see that , eh , you are considering now , eh , a very sophisticated , eh , ehm , eh , @ @ { comment } set of , eh , graphic s eh , eh , ehm , si symbols to to transcribe . no ? because , uh , before , you you are talking about the the possibility to include in the transcriber program eh , um , a set of symbols , of graphic symbol to t to mark the different situations during the transcription postdoc g : oh , i w uh - huh . phd d : during the transcription . no ? postdoc g : well , you 're saying so , uh , symbols for differences between laugh , and sigh , and and and slam the door and stuff ? phd d : yeah . yeah , yeah . the s the symbols , you you talk of before . postdoc g : or some other kind of thing ? phd d : no ? to to mark postdoc g : well , i would n't say symbols so much . the the main change that i that i see in the interface is is just that we 'll be able to more finely c uh , time things . phd d : yeah . yeah . postdoc g : but i i also st there was another aspect of your work that i was thinking about when i was talking to you which is that it sounded to me , liz , as though you and , uh , maybe i did n't q understand this , but it sounded to me as though part of the analysis that you 're doing involves taking segments which are of a particular type and putting them together . phd d : yeah . postdoc g : and th so if you have like a p a s you know , speech from one speaker , then you cut out the part that 's not that speaker , phd a : mm - hmm . postdoc g : and you combine segments from that same speaker to { comment } and run them through the recognizer . is that right ? phd a : well we try to find as close of start and end time of as we can to the speech from an individual speaker , postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : because then we we 're more guaranteed that the recognizer will for the forced alignment which is just to give us the time boundaries , because from those time boundaries then the plan is to compute prosodic features . postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : and the sort of more space you have that is n't the thing you 're trying to align the more errors we have . um , so , you know , that that it would help to have either pre - processing of a signal that creates very good signal - to - noise ratio , postdoc g : mm - hmm . cuz i ok . phd a : which i do n't know how possible this is for the lapel , um , or to have very to have closer , um , time you know , synch times , basically , around the speech that gets transcribed in it , or both . and it 's just sort of a open world right now of exploring that . so i just wanted to see , you know , on the transcribing end from here things look good . uh , the ibm one is more it 's an open question right now . and then the issue of like global processing of some signal and then , you know , before we chop it up is is yet another way we can improve things in that . phd e : what about increasing the flexibility of the alignment ? do you remember that thing that michael finka did ? phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : that experiment he did a while back ? phd a : right . you can , um the problem is just that the acoustic when the signal - to - noise ratio is too low , um , you you 'll get , a uh an alignment with the wrong duration pattern or it phd e : oh , so that 's the problem , is the the signal - to - noise ratio . phd a : yeah . it 's not the fact that you have like i mean , what he did is allow you to have , uh , words that were in another segment move over to the at the edges of of segmentations . phd e : mm - hmm . or even words inserted that were n't were n't there . phd a : right , things things near the boundaries where if you got your alignment wrong phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : cuz what they had done there is align and then chop . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : um , and this problem is a little bit j more global . it 's that there are problems even in inside the alignments , uh , because of the fact that there 's enough acoustic signal there t for the recognizer to to eat , as part of a word . and it tends to do that . s so , uh , phd d : yeah . phd a : but we probably will have to do something like that in addition . anyway . so , yeah , bottom bottom line is just i wanted to make sure i can be aware of whoever 's working on these signal - processing techniques for , uh , detecting energies , phd d : yeah . phd a : because that that 'll really help us . professor b : o k , uh tea has started out there i suggest we c run through our digits and , uh , so , ok , we 're done . </s>
<s> what did phd a say about microphones ? </s> postdoc g : i had thought under my topic that i would mention the , uh , four items that i i , uh , put out for being on the agenda f on that meeting , which includes like the pre - segmentation and the and the developments in multitrans . professor b : oh , under the nist meeting . postdoc g : yeah , under the nist thing . yeah . professor b : alright , why do n't we start off with this , u u i guess the order we brought them up seems fine . postdoc g : yeah . professor b : um , so , better quality close talking mikes . so the one issue was that the the , uh , lapel mike , uh , is n't as good as you would like . and so , uh , it it 'd be better if we had close talking mikes for everybody . right ? phd a : ri - um , professor b : is that is that basically the point ? phd a : yeah , the and actually in addition to that , that the the close talking mikes are worn in such a way as to best capture the signal . and the reason here is just that for the people doing work not on microphones but on sort of like dialogue and so forth , uh or and even on prosody , which don is gon na be working on soon , it adds this extra , you know , vari variable for each speaker to to deal with when the microphones are n't similar . professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : right . phd a : so and i also talked to mari this morning and she also had a strong preference for doing that . and in fact she said that that 's useful for them to know in starting to collect their data too . </s>
<s> what did the team say about incorporating video recordings </s> grad h : is he involved in ach ! { comment } i 'm blanking on the name of the project . nist has has done a big meeting room instrumented meeting room with video and microphone arrays , and very elaborate software . is is he the one working on that ? professor b : well that 's what they 're starting up . yeah . no , i mean , that 's what all this is about . they they have n't done it yet . they wanted to do it grad h : ok . i had read some papers that looked like they had already done some work . professor b : uh , well i think they 've instrumented a room but i do n't think they they have n't started recordings yet . they do n't have the t the transcription standards . they do n't have the phd e : are they going to do video as well ? professor b : yeah . i think . i think they are . grad h : oh , cuz what what i had read was , uh , they had a uh very large amount of software infrastructure for coordinating all this , both in terms of recording and also live room where you 're interacting the participants are interacting with the computer , and with the video , and lots of other stuff . professor b : well , i 'm i 'm i 'm not sure . all all i know is that they 've been talking to me about a project that they 're going to start up recording people meet in meetings . grad h : ok . well professor b : and , uh , it is related to ours . they were interested in ours . they wanted to get some uniformity with us , uh , about the transcriptions and so on . </s>
<s> what decision was reached about microphones nonuniformity ? </s> phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : so , uh so we should go out to our full complement of whatever we can do , but have them all be the same mike . i think the original reason that it was done the other way was because , it w it was sort of an experimental thing and i do n't think anybody knew whether people would rather have more variety or or , uh , more uniformity , phd a : right . professor b : but @ @ { comment } but uh , sounds sounds fine . grad h : sounds like uniformity wins . phd d : right . phd a : well , for short term research it 's just there 's just so much effort that would have to be done up front n uh , professor b : yeah . grad h : well phd a : so yeah , uniformity would be great . grad h : yeah . phd e : is it because you you 're saying the for dialogue purposes , so that means that the transcribers are having trouble with those mikes ? is that what you mean ? phd a : well jane would know more about the transcribers . phd e : or ? postdoc g : and that 's true . i mean , i we did discuss this . uh , and and grad h : yep . couple times . postdoc g : a couple times , so , um , yeah , the transcribers notice and in fact there 're some where , um ugh well , i mean there 's it 's the double thing . it 's the equipment and also how it 's worn . </s>
<s> what was said about ibm transcription ? </s> grad h : nu - it 's mostly it 's for their speech recognition products , phd e : but are n't they 're grad h : that they 've hired these people to do . phd e : oh , so they 're hiring them , they 're coming . it 's not a service they send the tapes out to . grad h : well they they do send it out but my understanding is that that 's all this company does is transcriptions for ibm for their speech product . phd e : ah ! oh . ok . i gotcha . grad h : so most of it 's viavoice , people reading their training material for that . phd e : i see . postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd e : i see . postdoc g : up to now it 's been monologues , uh , as far my understood . grad h : yep , exactly . postdoc g : and and what they 're doing is phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc g : brian himself downloaded so so , um , adam sent them a cd and brian himself downloaded uh , cuz , you know , i mean , we wanted to have it so that they were in familiar f terms with what they wanted to do . he downloaded from the cd onto audio tapes . and apparently he did it one channel per audio tape . so each of these people is transcribing from one channel . grad h : right . postdoc g : and then what he 's going to do is check it , a before they go be beyond the first one . check it and , you know , adjust it , and all that . phd e : so each person gets one of these channels grad h : right . </s>
<s> what was suggested for the transcribers ? </s> postdoc g : they 'd be really good . they 're they 're very they 're very consistent . phd a : that 'd be great . professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc g : uh , i wanted to whi while we 're uh , so , to return just briefly to this question of more meeting data , um i have two questions . one of them is , um , jerry feldman 's group , they they , uh , are they i know that they recorded one meeting . are they willing ? professor b : i think they 're open to it . i think , you know , all these things are phd a : oh , yeah . professor b : i think there 's we should go beyond , uh , icsi but , i mean , there 's a lot of stuff happening at icsi that we 're not getting now that we could . phd a : oh , that we could . professor b : so it 's just postdoc g : mm - hmm . phd a : ok . i thought that all these people had sort of said `` no `` twice already . professor b : yeah . so the phd a : if that 's not the case then professor b : no , no . no . so th there was the thing in fillmore 's group but even there he had n't what he 'd said `` no `` to was for the main meeting . but they have several smaller meetings a week , and , uh , the notion was raised before that that could happen . and it just , you know it just did n't come together phd a : just ok . phd e : well , and and the other thing too is when they originally said `` no `` they did n't know about this post - editing capability thing . professor b : but phd a : right . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd a : right . that was a big fear . postdoc g : that 's important . professor b : yeah , so i mean there 's possibilities there . i think jerry 's group , yes . uh , there 's there 's , uh , the networks group , uh , i do n't do they still meeting regularly or ? grad h : well , i do n't know if they meet regularly or not but they are no longer recording . professor b : but i mean , ha ha have they said they do n't want to anymore or ? grad h : um , ugh , what was his name ? professor b : uh , i i postdoc g : joe sokol ? grad h : yeah . professor b : yeah . grad h : when with him gone , it sorta trickled off . </s>
<s> what ’ s the current status of transcription ? </s> postdoc g : hope so . but the pre - segmentation really helps a huge amount . and , uh , also dan ellis 's innovation of the , uh the multi - channel to here really helped a r a lot in terms of clearing clearing up h hearings that involve overlaps . but , um , just out of curiosity i asked one of them how long it was taking her , one of these two who has already finished her data set . she said it takes about , uh , sixty minutes transcription for every five minutes of real time . so it 's about twelve to one , which is what we were thinking . grad h : or yep . postdoc g : it 's well in the range . grad h : it 's pretty good . postdoc g : ok . uh , these still , when they 're finished , um , that means that they 're finished with their pass through . they still need to be edited and all but but it 's word level , speaker change , the things that were mentioned . ok , now i wanted to mention the , um , teleconference i had with , uh , jonathan fiscus . we spoke for an hour and a half and , um , had an awful lot of things in common . he , um , um , he in indicated to me that they 've that he 's been , uh , looking , uh , uh , spending a lot of time with i 'm not quite sure the connection , but spending a lot of time with the atlas system . and i guess that i mean , i i need to read up on that . and there 's a web site that has lots of papers . but it looks to me like that 's the name that has developed for the system that bird and liberman developed { comment } for the annotated graphs approach . grad h : mm - hmm . postdoc g : so what he wants me to do and what we what we will do and uh , is to provide them with the u already transcribed meeting for him to be able to experiment with in this atlas system . and they do have some sort of software , at least that 's my impression , related to atlas and that he wants to experiment with taking our data and putting them in that format , and see how that works out . i i i explained to him in in detail the , uh , conventions that we 're using here in this in this word level transcript . and , um , you know , i i explained , you know , the reasons that that we were not coding more elaborately and and the focus on reliability . he expressed a lot of interest in reliability . it 's like he 's he 's really up on these things . he 's he 's very um , independently he asked , `` well what about reliability ? `` so , he 's interested in the consistency of the encoding and that sort of thing . ok , um </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd c : adam , what is the mike that , uh , jeremy 's wearing ? grad f : it 's the ear - plug mike . postdoc a : ear - plug . phd e : that 's good . phd c : is that a wireless , or ? oh . grad g : it 's wired . postdoc a : is that does that mean you ca n't hear anything during the meeting ? grad d : it 's old - school . grad f : huh ? what ? huh ? professor b : should we , uh , close the door , maybe ? grad f : it it 's a fairly good mike , actually . professor b : so it 's yeah . huh . grad f : well , i should n't say it 's a good mike . all i really know is that the signal level is ok . i do n't know if it 's a the quality . professor b : well , that 's a grad f : ugh ! so i did n't send out agenda items because until five minutes ago we only had one agenda item and now we have two . so . and , uh . professor b : ok . so , just to repeat the thing bef that we said last week , it was there 's this suggestion of alternating weeks on more , uh , automatic speech recognition related or not ? was that sort of the division ? grad f : right . professor b : so which week are we in ? grad f : well we have n't really started , but i thought we more we more or less did meeting recorder stuff last week , so i thought we could do , uh professor b : i thought we had a thing about speech recognition last week too . phd c : yeah . grad f : but i figure also if they 're short agenda items , we could also do a little bit of each . professor b : yeah . grad f : so . i seem to be having difficulty getting this adjusted . here we go . so , uh , as most of you should know , i did send out the consent form thingies and , uh , so far no one has made any ach ! { comment } { comment } any comments on them . so , no on no one has bleeped out anything . professor b : um . yeah . grad f : so . i do n't expect anyone to . but . professor b : um . so , w what follows ? at some point y you go around and get people to sign something ? grad f : no . we had spoken w about this before professor b : yeah , but i 've forgotten . grad f : and we had decided that they have they only needed to sign once . and the agreement that they already signed simply said that we would give them an opportunity . so as long as we do that , we 're covered . professor b : and how long of an opportunity did you tell them ? grad f : uh , july fifteenth . professor b : july fifteenth . oh , so they have a plenty of time , and y given that it 's that long , um , um why was that date chosen ? you just felt you wanted to ? grad f : jane told me july fifteenth . so , that 's what i set it . postdoc a : oh . i just meant that that was the release date that you had on the data . professor b : oh , ok . grad f : oh . i i did n't understand that there was something specific . postdoc a : i , uh i thought grad f : you y you had professor b : i do n't grad f : i had heard july fifteenth , so that 's what i put . postdoc a : mm - hmm . professor b : no , the only th the only mention i recall about that was just that july fifteenth or so is when this meeting starts . postdoc a : that 's right . that 's why . professor b : oh , i see . postdoc a : you said you wanted it to be available then . i did n't mean it to be the hard deadline . professor b : right . postdoc a : it 's fine with me if it is , or we cou but i thought it might be good to remind people two weeks prior to that in case , uh you know , `` by the way this is your last `` professor b : right . postdoc a : uh . yeah . professor b : we probably should have talked about it , cuz i because if we wan na be able to give it to people july fifteenth , if somebody 's gon na come back and say `` ok , i do n't want this and this and this used `` , uh , clearly we need some time to respond to that . right ? grad f : yeah . as i said , we i just got one date professor b : yeah . phd h : damn ! grad f : and that 's the one i used . professor b : yeah . grad f : so . but i can send a follow - up . i mean , it 's almost all us . i mean the people who are in the meeti this meeting was , uh , these the meetings that in are in set one . phd c : was my was my response ok ? postdoc a : that 's right . phd c : i just wrote you replied to the email saying they 're all fine . grad f : right . i mean , that 's fine . phd c : ok , good . grad f : i we do n't my understanding of what we had agreed upon when we had spoken about this months ago was that , uh , we do n't actually need a reply . phd c : that makes it easy . grad f : we just need to tell them that they can do it if they want . professor b : ok . i just did n't remember , but grad f : and so no reply is no changes . postdoc a : and he 's got it so that the default thing you see when you look at the page is `` ok `` . so that 's very clear all the way down the page , `` ok `` . and they have two options they can change it to . one of them is `` censor `` , and the other one is `` incorrect `` . is it is your word is `` incorrect `` ? grad f : right . postdoc a : which means also we get feedback on if um , there 's something that they w that needs to be adjusted , because , i mean , these are very highly technical things . i mean , it 's an added , uh , level of checking on the accuracy of the transcription , as i see it . but in any case , people can agree to things that are wrong . grad f : well yeah . the reason i did that it was just so that people would not censor not ask to have stuff removed because it was transcribed incorrectly , postdoc a : and the reason i liked it was because grad f : as opposed to , uh postdoc a : was because it , um it gives them the option of , uh , being able to correct it . grad f : right . postdoc a : approve it and correct it . and um . so , you have it nicely set up so they email you and , uh grad f : when they submit the form , it gets processed and emailed to me . postdoc a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . and i wanted to say the meetings that are involved in that set are robustness and meeting recorder . the german ones will be ready for next week . those are three three of those . a different set of people . and we can impose phd c : the german ones ? postdoc a : uh , well . phd h : yeah . those uh postdoc a : ok . i spoke loosely . the the german , french sorry , the german , dutch , and spanish ones . phd e : spanish . yeah . grad f : mm - hmm . phd c : oh , those are the nsa meetings ? phd e : the non - native phd h : those are postdoc a : yeah . uh - huh . professor b : german , dutch , swiss and spanish . phd c : oh , oh ! ok . phd e : the all non - native postdoc a : that 's that 's that 's r grad f : mm - hmm . phd h : uh - huh . phd c : ok . i 'd i d postdoc a : yeah . it 's the other group . professor b : i it was the network network services group . postdoc a : uh - huh . yeah , exactly . yeah . professor b : yeah . postdoc a : i did n't mean to isolate them . professor b : otherwise known as the german , dutch , and spanish . postdoc a : yeah . sorry . it was it was not the best characterization . grad f : mm - hmm . postdoc a : but what what i meant to say was that it 's the other group that 's not n no m no overlap with our present members . and then maybe it 'd be good to set an explicit deadline , something like a week before that , uh , j july fifteenth date , or two weeks before . professor b : i mean , i would suggest we discuss i mean , if we 're going to have a policy on it , that we discuss the length of time that we want to give people , grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : so that we have a uniform thing . so , tha that 's a month , which is fine . i mean , it seems phd c : twelve hours . grad f : well , the only thing i said in the email is that the data is going to be released on the fifteenth . i did n't give any other deadline . postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad f : so my feeling is if someone after the fifteenth says , `` wow i suddenly found something `` , we 'll delete it from our record . we just wo n't delete it from whatever 's already been released . postdoc a : hmm . that 's a little bit difficult . grad f : what else can we do ? postdoc a : yeah . grad f : if someone says `` hey , look , i found something in this meeting and it 's libelous and i want it removed `` . what can we do ? postdoc a : well . that 's true . grad f : we have to remove it . postdoc a : i i agree with that part , but i think that it would it , uh we need to have , uh , a a a message to them very clearly that beyond this date , you ca n't make additional changes . professor b : i mean , um , i i i i think that somebody might request something even though we say that . but i think it 's good to at least start some place like that . postdoc a : mm - hmm . good . professor b : so if we agreed , ok , how long is a reasonable amount of time for people to have if we say two weeks , or if we say a month , i think we should just say that say that , you know , i a as um , `` per the the the , uh , page you signed , you have the ability to look over this stuff `` and so forth `` and , uh , because we w `` these , uh i would i would imagine some sort of generic thing that would say `` because we , uh , will continually be making these things available to other researchers , uh , this ca n't be open - ended and so , uh , uh , please give us back your response within this am you know , within this amount of time `` , whatever time we agree upon . grad f : well , did you read the email and look at the pages i sent ? professor b : did i ? no , i have n't yet . no , just grad f : no . ok , well why do n't you do that and then make comments on what you want me to change ? professor b : no , no . i 'm not saying that you should change anything . i i 'm what i 'm what i 'm i 'm trying to spark a discussion hopefully among people who have read it so that that you can you can , uh , decide on something . postdoc a : mm - hmm . professor b : so i 'm not telling you what to decide . postdoc a : mm - hmm . professor b : i 'm just saying you should decide something , and then grad f : i already did decide something , and that 's what 's in the email . postdoc a : yeah , yeah . ok , so grad f : and if you disagree with it , why do n't you read it and give me comments on it ? postdoc a : yeah . well i i think that there 's one missing line . professor b : well , the one thing that i did read and that you just repeated to me was that you gave the specific date of july fifteenth . grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : and you also just said that the reason you said that was because someone said it to you . so what i 'm telling you is that what you should do is come up with a length of time that you guys think is enough grad f : right . professor b : and you should use that rather than this date that you just got from somewhere . that 's all i 'm saying . postdoc a : i ha i have one question . this is in the summer period and presumably people may be out of town . but we can make the assumption , ca n't we ? that , um , they will be receiving email , uh , most of the month . right ? because if someone professor b : it well , it well , you 're right . sometimes somebody will be away and , uh , you know , there 's , uh for any length of time that you uh , choose there is some person sometime who will not end up reading it . that 's it 's , you know , just a certain risk to take . phd h : s so maybe when am i on , by the way ? grad f : i do n't know . you should be . phd h : oh . hello ? hello ? grad f : you should be channel b . phd h : oh , ok . alright . so . the , um maybe we should say in w you know , when the whole thing starts , when they sign the the agreement that you know , specify exactly uh , what , you know , how how they will be contacted and they can , you know they can be asked to give a phone number and an email address , or both . and , um , then postdoc a : we did that , i i believe . phd h : right . phd e : yeah . phd h : so . a and , then , you know , say very clearly that if they do n't if we do n't hear from them , you know , as morgan suggested , by a certain time or after a certain period after we contact them that is implicitly giving their agreement . grad f : well , they 've already signed a form . postdoc a : and the form says phd e : and nobody nobody really reads it anyway . phd h : right . grad f : so . and the s and the form was approved by human subjects , phd h : says that . right . postdoc a : uh , the f phd h : well , if that 's i tha if that 's already if grad f : so , eh , that 's gon na be a little hard to modify . postdoc a : well , the form well , the form does n't say , if uh , you know , `` if you do n't respond by x number of days or x number of weeks `` phd h : i see . uh oh , ok . so what does it say about the the the process of of , uh y the review process ? postdoc a : it does n't have a time limit . that you 'll be provided access to the transcripts and then , uh , allowed to remove things that you 'd like to remove , before it goes to the general uh , larger audience . phd h : oh , ok . hmm . right . grad f : here . postdoc a : there you go . grad f : you can read what you already signed . phd e : i guess when i read it , um i 'm not as diligent as chuck , but i had the feeling i should probably respond and tell adam , like , `` i got this and i will do it by this date , and if you do n't hear from me by then `` you know , in other words responding to your email once , right away , saying `` as soon as you get this could you please respond . `` grad f : right . phd e : and then if you if the person thinks they 'll need more time because they 're out of town or whatever , they can tell you at that point ? because grad f : oh , i just i did n't wan na do that , because i do n't wan na have a discussion with every person if i can avoid it . phd e : well , it 's grad f : so what i wanted to do was just send it out and say `` on the fifteenth , the data is released , postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad f : if you wan na do something about it , do something about it , but that 's it `` . postdoc a : i i kind of like this . phd e : well postdoc a : yeah . phd e : ok . so , we 're assuming that phd h : well , that 's that would be great if but you should probably have a legal person look at this and make sure it 's ok . because if you if you , uh , do this and you then there 's a dispute later and , uh , some you know , someone who understands these matters concludes that they did n't have , uh , you know , enough opportunity to actually exercise their their right phd e : or they they might never have gotten the email , because although they signed this , they do n't know by which date to expect your email . and so someone whose machine is down or whatever i mean , we have no professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : in internally we know that people are there , grad f : well , ok . l let me let me reverse this . phd e : but we have no confirmation that they got the mail . grad f : so let 's say someone i send this out , and someone does n't respond . do we delete every meeting that they were in ? phd e : well , then grad f : i do n't think so . phd e : it we 're hoping that does n't happen , but that 's why there 's such a thing as registered mail grad f : that will happen . phd e : or phd h : that will happen . phd e : right . grad f : that will absolutely happen . because people do n't read their email , or they 'll read and say `` i do n't care about that , i 'm not gon na delete anything `` and they don just wo n't reply to it . phd h : maybe uh , do we have mailing addresses for these people ? grad f : no . we have what they put on the speaker form , postdoc a : well { comment } most grad f : which was just generic contact information . postdoc a : but the ones that we 're dealing with now are all local , phd h : well , then postdoc a : except the ones who i mean , we we 're totally in contact with all the ones in those two groups . phd h : mmm . ok . postdoc a : so maybe , uh , i you know , that 's not that many people and if i if , uh i i there is an advantage to having them admit and if i can help with with processing that , i will . it 's it 's there is an advantage to having them be on record as having received the mail and indicating grad f : yeah . i mean i thought we had discussed this , like , a year ago . postdoc a : yes , we did . grad f : and so it seems like this is a little odd for it to be coming up yet again . postdoc a : you 're right . well , i you know . but sometimes professor b : well , we we have n't experienced it before . postdoc a : that 's right . professor b : right ? so phd e : you 'll either wonder at the beginning or you 'll wonder at the end . postdoc a : need to get it right . phd e : i mean , there 's no way to get around i it 's pretty much the same am amount of work except for an additional email just saying they got the email . postdoc a : yeah . phd e : and maybe it 's better legally to wonder before you know , a little bit earlier than grad f : well postdoc a : it 's much easier to explain this way . grad f : ok . well , why do n't you talk t postdoc a : t t to have it on record . grad f : morgan , can you talk to our lawyer about it , and find out what the status is on this ? cuz i do n't wan na do something that we do n't need to . postdoc a : yeah , but w mmm . grad f : because what i 'm telling you , people wo n't respond to the email . no matter what you do , you there 're gon na be people who you 're gon na have to make a lot of effort to get in contact with . postdoc a : well , then we make the effort . grad d : i mean , i it 's k grad f : and do we want to spend that effort ? postdoc a : we make the effort . grad d : it 's kind of like signing up for a mailing list . they have opt in and opt out . and there are two different ways . i mean , and either way works probably , i mean . postdoc a : except i really think in this case i i 'm agr i agree with liz , that we need to be in the clear and not have to after the fact say `` oh , but i assumed `` , and `` oh , i 'm sorry that your email address was just accumulating mail without notifying you `` , you know . professor b : if this is a purely administrative task , we can actually have administration do it . postdoc a : oh , excellent . professor b : but the thing is that , you know , i i i think , without going through a whole expensive thing with our lawyers , from my previous conversations with them , my my sense very much is that we would want something on record as indicating that they actually were aware of this . grad f : well , we had talked about this before professor b : mm - hmm . grad f : and i thought that we had even gone by the lawyers asking about that and they said you have to s they 've already signed away the f with that form that they 've already signed once . postdoc a : i do n't remember that this issue of the time period allowed for response was ever covered . grad f : yeah . professor b : yeah . we never really talked about that . phd e : or the date at which they would be receiving the email from you . postdoc a : or or how they would indicate professor b : yeah . phd e : they probably forgot all about it . professor b : we certainly did n't talk , uh , about with them at all about , uh , the manner of them being made the , uh , uh , materials available . phd e : yeah . phd h : we do it like with these professor b : that was something that was sort of just within our implementation . phd h : we can use it we can use a a ploy like they use to , um you know , that when they serve , like uh , uh , uh { comment } uh , you know , like dead - beat dads , they they they make it look like they won something in the lottery and then they open the envelope grad d : and they 're served . phd h : and that right ? because and then the the the the thing is served . so you just make it , you know , `` oh , you won you know , go to this web site and you 've , uh you 're `` phd e : that 's why you never open these things that come in the mail . postdoc a : that one . professor b : yeah . grad f : well , it 's just , we 've gone from one extreme to the other , where at one point , a few months ago , morgan was you were saying let 's not do anything , phd h : right . right . no , it i it might postdoc a : well , it does n't matter . phd h : i i it it might well be the case grad f : and now we 're we 're saying we have to follow up each person and get a signature ? phd h : it might right . grad f : i mean , what are we gon na doing here ? phd h : it might well be the case that that this is perfectly you know , this is enough to give us a basis t to just , eh , assume their consent if they do n't reply . professor b : well . grad f : mm - hmm . phd h : but , i 'm not you know , me not being a lawyer , i would n't just wan na do that without having the the expert , uh , opinion on that . postdoc a : and how many people ? al - altogether we 've got twenty people . these people are people who read their email almost all the time . grad f : then i think we had better find out , so that we can find a phd h : yeah . professor b : let me look at this again . grad f : right . postdoc a : i i really do n't see that it 's a problem . i i think that it 's a common courtesy to ask them uh , to expect for them to , uh , be able to have @ @ { comment } us try to contact them , grad f : for for th postdoc a : u just in case they had n't gotten their email . i think they 'd appreciate it . professor b : yeah . my adam , my my view before was about the nature of what was of the presentation , grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : of of how my my the things that we 're questioning were along the lines of how easy uh , h how m how much implication would there be that it 's likely you 're going to be changing something , as opposed to grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : that was the kind of dispute i was making before . postdoc a : mm - hmm . i remember that . professor b : but , um , the attorneys , i uh , i can guarantee you , the attorneys will always come back with and we have to decide how stringent we want to be in these things , but they will always come back with saying that , um , you need to you want to have someth some paper trail or which includes electronic trail that they have , uh , in fact o k 'd it . grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : so , um , i think that if you f i if we send the email as you have and if there 's half the people , say , who do n't respond at all by , you know , some period of time , we can just make a list of these people and hand it to , uh you know , just give it to me and i 'll hand it to administrative staff or whatever , grad f : right . professor b : and they 'll just call them up and say , you know , `` have you is is this ok ? and would you please mail you know , mail adam that it is , if i if it , you know , is or not . `` so , you know , we can we can do that . phd e : the other thing that there 's a psychological effect that at least for most people , that if they 've responded to your email saying `` yes , i will do it `` or `` yes , i got your email `` , they 're more likely to actually do it { comment } later than to just ignore it . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and of course we do n't want them to bleep things out , but it it 's a little bit better if we 're getting the their , uh , final response , once they 've answered you once than if they never answer you 'd { comment } at al at all . that 's how these mailing houses work . so , i mean , it 's not completely lost work because it might benefit us in terms of getting responses . postdoc a : mm - hmm . phd e : you know , an official ok from somebody is better than no answer , even if they responded that they got your email . and they 're probably more likely to do that once they 've responded that they got the email . postdoc a : i also think they 'd just simply appreciate it . i think it 's a good a good way of of fostering goodwill among our subjects . well , our participants . professor b : i think the main thing is i mean , what lawyers do is they always look at worst cases . grad f : sending lots of spam . professor b : so they s so so tha - that 's what they 're paid to do . and so , it is certainly possible that , uh , somebody 's server would be down or something and they would n't actually hear from us , and then they find this thing is in there and we 've already distributed it to someone . so , what it says in there , in fact , is that they will be given an opportunity to blah - blah - blah , postdoc a : mm - hmm . professor b : but if in fact if we sent them something or we thought we sent them something but they did n't actually receive it for some reason , um , then we have n't given them that . grad f : well , so how far do we have to go ? do we need to get someone 's signature ? or , is email enough ? professor b : i i i em email is enough . grad f : do we have to have it notarized ? i mean ok . professor b : yeah . i mean , i 've been through this i mean , i 'm not a lawyer , but i 've been through these things a f things f like this a few times with lawyers now grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : so i i i i 'm pretty comfortable with that . phd c : do you track , um , when people log in to look at the ? grad f : uh . if they submit the form , i get it . phd c : uh - huh . grad f : if they do n't submit the form , it goes in the general web log . but that 's not sufficient . right ? cuz if someone just visits the web site that does n't imply anything in particular . phd c : except that you know they got the mail . postdoc a : mm - hmm . that 's right . grad f : right . postdoc a : i i could get you on the notify list if you want me to . grad f : i 'm already on it . postdoc a : for that directory ? ok , great . grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : so again , hopefully , um , this should n't be quite as odious a problem either way , uh , in any of the extremes we 've talked about because uh , we 're talking a pretty small number of people . grad f : w for this set , i 'm not worried , because we basically know everyone on it . professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad f : you know , they 're all more or less here or it 's it 's eric and dan and so on . but for some of the others , you 're talking about visitors who are gone from icsi , whose email addresses may or may not work , professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad f : and so what are we gon na do when we run into someone that we ca n't get in touch with ? postdoc a : i do n't think , uh they 're so recent , these visitors . grad f : mm - hmm . postdoc a : i and and i they 're also so professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc a : they 're prominent enough that they 're easy to find through i i mean , i i w i 'll be able to if you have any trouble finding them , i really think i could find them . grad f : other methods ? ok . professor b : yeah . cuz it what it what it really does promise here is that we will ask their permission . um , and i think , you know , if you go into a room and close the door and and ask their permission and they 're not there , it does n't seem { comment } that that 's the intent of , uh , meaning here . so . grad f : well , the qu the question is just whether how active it has to be . i mean , because they they filled out a contact information and that 's where i 'm sending the information . professor b : right . grad f : and so far everyone has done email . there is n't anyone who did , uh , any other contact method . professor b : well , the way icsi goes , people , uh , who , uh , were here ten years ago still have acc have forwards to other accounts and so on . grad f : yeah . professor b : so it 's unusual that that they , uh grad f : so my original impression was that that was sufficient , that if they give us contact information and that contact information is n't accurate that we fulfilled our burden . professor b : yeah . phd e : then they just come back . phd c : all my files were still here . phd e : same as us . postdoc a : i just professor b : so if we get to a boundary case like that then maybe i will call the attorney about it . phd c : yeah . professor b : but , you know , hopefully we wo n't need to . postdoc a : i d i just do n't think we will . for all the reasons that we 've discussed . grad f : alright . professor b : so we 'll we 'll see if we do or not . grad f : yep . and we 'll see how many people respond to that email . postdoc a : yeah . grad f : so far , two people have . professor b : yeah . i think very few people will and and and , you know , people people see long emails about things that they do n't think is gon na be high priority , they typically , uh , do n't do n't read it , or half read it . grad f : right . professor b : cuz people are swamped . postdoc a : and actually , professor b : but postdoc a : um , i i did n't anticipate this so i that 's why i did n't give this comment , and it i this discussion has made me think it might be nice to have a follow - up email within the next couple of days saying `` by the way , you know , we wan na hear back from you by x date and please `` , and then add what liz said `` please , uh , respond to please indicate you received this mail . `` professor b : uh , or e well , maybe even additionally , uh , um , `` even if you 've decided you have no changes you 'd like to make , if you could tell us that `` . grad f : respond to the email . { comment } yep . postdoc a : mm - hmm . it is the first time through the cycle . professor b : yeah . phd e : right . that would that would definitely work on me . you know , it makes you feel m like , um , if you were gon na p if you 're predicting that you might not answer , you have a chance now to say that . whereas , i i mean , i would be much more likely myself , phd c : and the other th phd e : given all my email , t to respond at that point , saying `` you know what , i 'm probably not gon na get to it `` or whatever , rather than just having seen the email , thinking i might get to it , and never really , uh , pushing myself to actually do it until it 's too late . phd c : yeah . i was i was thinking that it also lets them know that they do n't have to go to the page to accept this . phd e : right . r right . that 's true . professor b : right . phd c : i mean , i i yeah . so that way they could they can see from that email that if they just write back and say `` i got it , no changes `` , they 're off the hook . professor b : yeah . phd c : they do n't have to go to the web page professor b : i mean , the other thing i 've learned from dealing with dealing with people sending in reviews and so forth , uh , is , um , if you say `` you 've got three months to do this review `` , um , people do it , you know , two and seven eighths months from now . phd c : and phd e : yeah . that 's true . professor b : if you say `` you 've got three weeks to do this review `` , they do do it , you know , two and seven eighths weeks from now they do the review . grad f : right . professor b : and , um so , if we make it a little less time , i do n't think it 'll be that much grad f : well , and also if we want it ready by the fifteenth , that means we better give them deadline of the first , if we have any prayer of actually getting everyone to respond in time . professor b : there 's the responding part and there 's also what if , uh , i mean , i hope this does n't happen , what if there are a bunch of deletions that have to get put in and changes ? grad f : right . professor b : then we actually have to deal with that postdoc a : mm - hmm . some lead time . professor b : if we want it to grad f : ugh ! disk space , postdoc a : by the way , has has jeremy signed the form ? grad f : oh my god ! i had n't thought about that . that for every meeting any meeting which has any bleeps in it we need yet another copy of . phd c : just that channel . grad d : ca n't you just do that channel ? phd c : oh , no . we have to do grad f : no , of course not . phd e : yeah . you have to do all of them , grad f : you need all the channels . phd c : do you have to do the other close - talking ? phd e : as well as all of these . grad d : yeah . phd e : you have to do all you could just do it in that time period , though , grad f : yes . absolutely . there 's a lot of cross - talk . postdoc a : well phd e : but i guess it 's a pain . grad f : well , but you have to copy the whole file . phd e : yeah . grad f : right ? because we 're gon na be releasing the whole file . phd e : yeah . you 're right . postdoc a : well i you know , i think at a certain point , that copy that has the deletions will become the master copy . grad f : yeah . it 's just i hate deleting any data . so i i do n't want i really would rather make a copy of it , rather than bleep it out professor b : are you del are you bleeping it by adding ? grad f : and then overlapping . so , it 's it 's exactly a censor bleep . so what i really think is `` bleep `` professor b : i i i i understand , but is is it summing signals grad f : and then i want to professor b : or do you delete the old one and put the new one in ? grad f : i delete the old one , put the new one in . professor b : oh , ok . cuz grad f : there 's nothing left of the original signal . professor b : oh . cuz if you were summing , you could no . but anyway grad f : yeah . it would be qui quite easy to get it back again . postdoc a : but and then w i was gon na say also that the they do n't have to stay on the system , as you know , professor b : yeah . phd e : then someday we can sell the unedited versions . postdoc a : cuz cuz the the ones grad f : say again ? postdoc a : once it 's been successfully bleeped , ca n't you rely on the ? phd c : or we 'll tell people the frequency of the beep professor b : encrypt it . phd c : and then they could subtract the beep out . grad d : you can hide it . yeah . postdoc a : ca n't you rely on the archiving to preserve the older version ? phd h : oh , yeah . grad d : it would n't be that hard to hide it . phd e : right . exactly . i see . grad f : yeah , that 's true . yeah . yep , that 's true . phd e : see , this is good . i wanted to create some side conversations in these meetings . professor b : yeah . you could encrypt it , you know , with a with a two hundred bit thousand bit , uh grad d : you can use spread spectrum . phd c : uh - huh . grad d : hide it . phd e : so phd c : here we go . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad d : yeah , there you go . phd e : cuz we do n't have enough asides . phd h : i have an idea . you reverse the signal , grad d : there you go . phd h : so it it lets people say what they said backwards . grad f : backwards . grad d : then you have , like , subliminal , uh , messages , grad f : but , ha you 've seen the this the speech recognition system that reversed very short segments . phd h : yeah . grad d : like . grad f : did you read that paper ? it would n't work . the speech recognizer still works . phd e : yeah . and if you do it backward then professor b : yeah . phd c : that 's cuz they use forward - backward . phd e : h - good old hmm . grad f : forward but backward . that 's right . phd e : no , it 's backward - forward . grad f : good point . a point . well , i 'm sorry if i sound a little peeved about this whole thing . it 's just we 've had meeting after meeting after meeting a on this and it seems like we 've never gotten it resolved . professor b : well , but we never also we 've also never done it . postdoc a : this is the first cycle . phd e : if it makes grad f : yeah . postdoc a : there 're bound to be some glitches the first time through . professor b : so . and , uh and i 'm sorry responding without , uh , having much knowledge , but the thing is , uh , i am , like , one of these people who gets a gazillion mails and and stuff comes in as grad f : well , and that 's exactly why i did it the way i did it , which is the default is if you do nothing we 're gon na release it . professor b : yeah . grad f : because , you know , i have my stack of emails of to d to be done , that , you know , fifty or sixty long , and the ones at the top i 'm never gon na get to . professor b : right . grad f : and , uh so so phd c : move them to the bottom . professor b : so so the only thing we 're missing is is some way to respond to easily to say , uh , `` ok , go ahead `` or something . grad f : yeah , right . so , i this is gon na mean phd c : just re - mail them to yourself and then they 're at the bottom . professor b : yeah . grad f : yeah . postdoc a : yeah . grad f : yeah . that 's actually definitely a good point . the m email does n't specify that you can just reply to the email , as op as opposed to going to the form postdoc a : mm - hmm . phd h : in postdoc a : and it also does n't give a a specific i did n't think of it . phd e : right . grad f : and postdoc a : s i think it 's a good idea an ex explicit time by which this will be considered definite . grad f : yeah , release . postdoc a : and and it has to be a time earlier than that endpoint . professor b : yeah . it 's converging . postdoc a : yeah . that 's right . phd h : this um , i 've seen this recently . uh , i got email , and it i if i use a mime - capable mail reader , it actually says , you know , click on this button to confirm receipt of the of the mail . postdoc a : oh , that 's interesting . phd h : so grad f : you you can grad d : it 's like certified mail . grad f : a lot of mailers support return receipt . postdoc a : could do that . phd h : right . grad f : but it does n't confirm that they 've read it . phd h : no , no , no . this is different . this is not so , i i know , you can tell , you know , the , uh , mail delivery agent to to confirm that the mail was delivered to your mailbox . grad f : right . phd h : but but , no . this was different . ins - in the mail , there was a grad f : oh , just a button . phd h : uh , th there was a button that when you clicked on it , it would send , uh , you know , a actual acknowledgement to the sender that you had actually looked at the mail . grad f : oh , yeah . yeah . unfor - yeah , we could do that . but i hate that . phd h : but it o but it only works for , you know , mime - capable you know , if you use netscape or something like that for your n grad f : yeah . professor b : and phd e : you might as well just respond to the mail . professor b : and we actually need a third thing . phd e : i mean phd h : right . professor b : it 's not that you 've looked at it , it 's that you 've looked at it and and and agree with one of the possible actions . phd h : no , no . you can do that . professor b : right ? phd h : you know , you can put this button anywhere you want , professor b : oh ? oh , i see . phd h : and you can put it the bottom of the message and say `` here , by you know , by clicking on this , i i agree uh , you know , i acknowledge `` professor b : that i i my first - born children are yours , and yeah . yeah . phd e : quick question . are , um grad f : well , i could put a url in there without any difficulty and even pretty simple mime readers can do that . so . postdoc a : but why should n't they just email back ? i do n't see there 's a problem . professor b : yeah . grad f : yeah . reply . phd h : right . postdoc a : it 's very nice . i i like the high - tech aspect of it , professor b : yeah . postdoc a : but i think phd h : no , no , no . i actually do n't . postdoc a : i appreciate it . phd h : i 'm just saying that grad f : well , i cuz i use a text mail reader . phd h : if ev but i 'm phd e : do n't you use vi for your mai ? phd h : yeah . professor b : wow . that 's that 's my guy . alright . grad f : you you read email in vi ? phd h : yeah . postdoc a : yeah . i like vi . phd h : so i i there 's these logos that you can put at the bottom of your web page , like `` powered by vi `` . grad d : yeah . i see . phd e : anyway , quick question . grad f : you could put wed bugs in the email . phd h : yeah . phd e : like , there were three meetings this time , or so or how many ? six ? but , no of different people . so i guess if you 're in both these types of meetings , you 'd have a lot . but how i mean , it also depends on how many like , if we release this time it 's a fairly small number of meetings , but what if we release , like , twenty - five meetings to people ? in th grad f : well , what my s expectation is , is that we 'll send out one of these emails every time a meeting has been checked and is ready . phd e : i do n't know . oh . oh , ok . so this time was just the first chunk . ok . grad f : so . tha - that was my intention . it 's just yeah that we just happened to have a bunch all at once . phd e : well , that 's a good idea . grad f : i mean , maybe is that the way it 's gon na be , you think , jane ? postdoc a : i agree with you . it 's we could do it , uh i i could i 'd be happy with either way , batch - wise what i was thinking uh , so this one that was exactly right , that we had a uh , uh i i had wanted to get the entire set of twelve hours ready . do n't have it . but , uh , this was the biggest clump i could do by a time where i thought it was reasonable . professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc a : people would be able to check it and still have it ready by then . my , um i was thinking that with the nsa meetings , i 'd like there are three of them , and they 're uh , i i will have them done by monday . uh , unfortunately the time is later and i do n't know how that 's gon na work out , but i thought it 'd be good to have that released as a clump , too , because then , you know , they 're they they have a it it 's in a category , it 's not quite so distracting to them , is what i was thinking , and it 's all in one chu but after that , when we 're caught up a bit on this process , then , um , i could imagine sending them out periodically as they become available . i could do it either way . i mean , it 's a question of how distracting it is to the people who have to do the checking . professor b : we heard anything from ibm ? at all ? phd c : uh . let 's see . we yeah , right . so we got the transcript back from that one meeting . everything seemed fine . adam had a script that will put everything back together and there was well , there was one small problem but it was a simple thing to fix . and then , um , we , uh i sent him a pointer to three more . and so he 's off and working on those . grad f : yeah . now we have n't actually had anyone go through that meeting , to see whether the transcript is correct and to see how much was missed and all that sort of stuff . postdoc a : that 's on my list . grad f : so at some point we need to do that . phd c : yeah . postdoc a : well , that 's on my list . phd c : yeah . it 's gon na have to go through our regular process . grad f : i mean , the one thing i noticed is it did miss a lot of backchannels . there are a fair number of `` yeahs `` and `` uh - huhs `` that it 's just that are n't in there . so . professor b : but i think yeah . like you said , i mean , that 's that 's gon na be our standard proc that 's what the transcribers are gon na be spending most of their time doing , i would imagine , postdoc a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm , mm - hmm . professor b : once once we grad f : yes , absolutely . yeah . postdoc a : one question about the backchannels . professor b : it 's gon na postdoc a : do you suppose that was because they were n't caught by the pre - segmenter ? grad f : yes , absolutely . absolutely . postdoc a : oh , interesting . oh , interesting . ok . grad f : yeah . they 're they 're not in the segmented . it 's not that the ibm people did n't do it . just they did n't get marked . postdoc a : ok . so maybe when the detector for that gets better or something i w i there 's another issue which is this we 've been , uh , contacted by university of washington now , of course , to , um we sent them the transcripts that correspond to those six meetings and they 're downloading the audio files . so they 'll be doing that . chuck 's chuck 's , uh , put that in . phd c : mm - hmm . yeah , i pointed them to the set that andreas put , uh , on the web so th if they want to compare directly with his results they can . and , um , then once , uh , th we can also point them at the , um , uh , the original meetings and they can grab those , too , with scp . phd e : wait . so you put the reference files ? phd c : no , no . they d they wanted the audio . phd e : or the ? phd c : jane sent them the , uh , transcripts . phd e : no , i mean of the transcripts . um . well , we can talk about it off - line . phd c : mm - hmm . grad f : there 's another meeting in here , what , at four ? right ? yeah , so we have to finish by three forty - five . phd h : d d so , does washi - does does uw wan na u do this wan na use this data for recognition or for something else ? phd c : uh , for recognition . phd e : i think they 're doing w did n't they want to do language modeling on , you know , recognition - compatible transcripts phd h : oh . i see . postdoc a : this is to show you , uh , some of the things that turn up during the checking procedure . professor b : yeah . phd e : or ? postdoc a : um @ @ { comment } so , this is from one of the nsa meetings and , uh , i if you 're familiar with the diff format , the arrow to the left is what it was , and the arrow to the right is what it was changed to . so , um . and now the first one . `` ok . so , then we started a weekly meeting . the last time , uh `` and the transcriber thought `` little too much `` but , uh , really , um , it was `` we learned too much `` , which makes more sense syntactically as well . phd h : and these the parentheses were f from postdoc a : then oh , this that 's the convention for indicating uncertain . grad f : u uncertains . postdoc a : so the transcriber was right . you know , she was uncertain about that . so she 's right to be uncertain . and it 's also a g a good indication of the of that . phd h : oh . { comment } ok . postdoc a : the next one . this was about , uh , claudia and she 'd been really b busy with stuff , such as waivers . uh , ok . um , next one . um . this was an interesting one . so the original was `` so that 's not so claudia 's not the bad master here `` , and then he laughs , but it really `` web master `` . grad f : web master . grad d : oh . { comment } uh - oh . postdoc a : and then you see another type of uncertainty which is , you know , they just did n't know what to make out of that . so instead of `` split upon unknown `` , { comment } it 's `` split in principle `` . grad d : jane , these are from ibm ? grad f : spit upon ? grad d : the top lines ? postdoc a : no , no . these are these are our local transcriptions of the nsa meetings . grad f : no , these are ours . postdoc a : the transcribers transcriber 's version ver versus the checked version . grad d : oh . oh , i see . postdoc a : my my checked version , after i go through it . um , then you get down here . um . sometimes some speakers will insert foreign language terms . that 's the next example , the next one . the , uh , version beyond this is so instead of saying `` or `` , especially those words , `` also `` and `` oder `` and some other ones . those sneak in . um , the next one grad f : that 's cool . phd h : discourse markers . discourse markers . postdoc a : sorry , what ? discourse markers ? sure . sure , sure , sure . phd h : discourse markers . postdoc a : and it 's and it makes sense phd h : yeah . yeah . postdoc a : cuz it 's , like , below this it 's a little subliminal there . phd h : yeah . yeah , yeah . postdoc a : um . ok , the next one , uh , this is a term . the problem with terminology . description with th the transcriber has `` x as an advance `` . but really it 's `` qs in advance `` . i mean , i i 've benefited from some of these , uh , cross - group meetings . ok , then you got , um , uh , instead of `` from something - or - other cards `` , { comment } it 's `` for multicast `` . and instead of `` ann system related `` , it 's `` end system related `` . this was changed to an acronym initially and it should should n't have been . and then , you can see here `` gps `` was misinterpreted . it 's just totally understanda this is this is a lot of jargon . um , and the final one , the transcriber had th `` in the core network itself or the exit unknown , not the internet unknown `` . and it it comes through as `` in the core network itself of the access provider , not the internet backbone core `` . now this is a lot of terminology . and they 're generally extremely good , but , you know in this this area it really does pay to , um to double check and i 'm hoping that when the checked versions are run through the recognizer that you 'll see s substantial improvements in performance cuz the you know , there 're a lot of these in there . phd h : yeah . so how often ? grad f : yeah , but i bet i bet they 're acoustically challenging parts anyway , though . postdoc a : no , actually no . huh - uh . grad f : oh , really ? uh , it 's oh , so it 's just jargon . postdoc a : it 's jargon . yeah . i mean this is cuz , you know you do n't realize in daily life how much you have top - down influences in what you 're hearing . phd h : well , but postdoc a : and it 's jar it 's jargon coupled with a foreign accent . phd h : but but but we do n't i mean , our language model right now does n't know about these words anyhow . so , professor b : yeah . phd h : you know , un until you actually get a decent language model , @ @ { comment } adam 's right . grad f : it probably wo n't do any better . phd h : you probably wo n't notice a difference . but it 's i mean , it 's definitely good that these are fixed . i mean , obviously . postdoc a : well , also from the standpoint of getting people 's approval , professor b : yeah . postdoc a : cuz if someone sees a page full of uh , um , barely decipherable w you know , sentences , and then is asked to approve of it or not , it 's , uh , uh grad f : did i say that ? professor b : yeah . yeah . that would be a shame if people said `` well , i do n't approve it because the it 's not what i said `` . grad f : well , that 's exactly why i put the extra option in , professor b : yeah . postdoc a : exactly . that 's why we discussed that . professor b : yeah . grad f : is that i was afraid people would say , `` let 's censor that because it 's wrong `` , professor b : yeah . grad f : and i do n't want them to do that . postdoc a : and then i also the final thing i have for transcription is that i made a purchase of some other headphones because of the problem of low gain in the originals . and and they very much appro they mu much prefer the new ones , and actually i i mean , i i think that there will be fewer things to correct because of the the choice . we 'd originally chosen , uh , very expensive head headsets grad f : yeah . ugh ! postdoc a : but , um , they 're just not as good as these , um , in this with this respect to this particular task . phd h : well , return the old ones . grad f : it 's probably impedance matching problems . postdoc a : i do n't know exactly , grad f : but postdoc a : but we chose them because that 's what 's been used here by prominent projects in transcription . professor b : could be . postdoc a : so it i we had every reason to think they would work . grad f : mm - hmm . phd h : so you have spare headsets ? postdoc a : sorry , what ? phd h : you have spare headsets ? grad f : they 're just earphones . they 're not headsets . they 're not microphones . phd e : right . phd h : no , no . i mean , just earphones ? um , because i , uh , i could use one on my workstation , just to t because sometimes i have to listen to audio files and i do n't have to b go borrow it from someone and postdoc a : we have actua actually i have w well , the thing is , that if we have four people come to work for a day , i was i was hanging on to the others for , eh for spares , phd h : oh , ok . postdoc a : but i can tell you what i recommend . professor b : no , but you 'd if you yeah , w we should get it . phd h : sure . no problem . grad f : but if you need it , just get it . phd h : i just grad f : come on . phd h : right . professor b : yeah . if you need it . phd h : yeah . professor b : yeah . postdoc a : it 'd just have to be a s a separate order an added order . grad d : yeah , i still i still need to get a pair , too . professor b : they 're they 're they 're they 're pretty inexpensive . phd e : yeah , that we should order a cou uh , t two or three or four , actually . professor b : yeah . grad d : i 'm using one of these . yeah . phd e : we have phd h : i think i have a pair that i brought from home , but it 's f just for music listening professor b : no . just just just just buy them . phd e : sh - just get the model number phd h : and it 's not nnn . yeah . professor b : just buy them . phd e : and where do you buy these from ? phd h : yeah . postdoc a : cambridge soundworks , just down the street . phd e : like ? you just b go and b postdoc a : yeah . they always have them in stock . professor b : yeah . phd e : that 'd be a good idea . phd h : anyway . professor b : yeah . grad f : w uh , could you email out the brand ? postdoc a : oh , sure . yeah . ok . grad f : cuz i think sounds like people are interested . grad d : yeah . professor b : yeah . grad d : definitely . postdoc a : it 's made a difference in in how easy . yeah . professor b : i realized something i should talk about . so what 's the other thing on the agenda actually ? grad f : uh , the only one was don wanted to , uh , talk about disk space yet again . grad d : yeah . u it 's short . i mean , if you wan na go , we can just throw it in at the end . professor b : no , no . why do n't you why do n't you go ahead since it 's short . grad d : um , well , uh . grad f : oh , i thought you meant the disk space . yeah , we know disk space is short . phd h : the disk space was short . yeah . that 's what i thought too . phd e : that 's a great ambiguity . professor b : yeah . phd e : it 's one of these it 's it 's social professor b : it 's i i i it i phd e : and , uh , discourse level grad d : yeah . phd e : and professor b : yeah , it 's great . yeah , phd e : sorry . professor b : double double grad f : yeah , it was really goo phd e : see , if i had that little scratch - pad , i would have made an x there . grad d : thank you , thank you . grad f : uh , well , we 'll give you one then . professor b : yeah . grad d : um . so , um , without thinking about it , when i offered up my hard drive last week grad f : oh , no . grad d : um , this is always a suspect phrase . phd e : it was while i was out of town . grad d : but , um , no . i , uh i realized that we 're going to be doing a lot of experiments , um , o for this , uh , paper we 're writing , so we 're probably gon na need a lot more we 're probably gon na need that disk space that we had on that eighteen gig hard drive . but , um , we also have someone else coming in that 's gon na help us out with some stuff . professor b : we 've just ordered a hundred gigabytes . grad d : so ok . we just need to phd e : i think we need , like , another eighteen gig disk to be safe . professor b : well , we 're getting three thirty thirty - sixes . right ? that are going into the main f file server . phd c : markham 's ordering and they should be coming in soon . grad d : w well . so so grad f : soon ? grad d : yeah . i mean , i guess the thing is is , all i need is to hang it off , like , the person who 's coming in , sonali 's , computer . phd h : oh , so so , you mean the d the internal the disks on the machines that we just got ? grad d : whew . or we can move them . phd c : these are gon na go onto abbott . grad f : ne - new disks . phd h : or extra disk ? professor b : onto abbott , the file server . grad d : so are we gon na move the stuff off of my hard drive onto that when those come in ? grad f : on phd h : oh , oh . ok . grad f : yeah . phd e : uh , i grad f : once they come in . sure . grad d : ok . that 's fine . phd e : do when when is this planned for roughly ? phd c : they should be i i imagine next week or something . phd e : ok . so grad f : if you 're if you 're desperate , i have some space on my drive . grad d : i think if i 'm grad f : but i i vacillate between no space free and a few gig free . grad d : yeah . i think i can find something if i 'm desperate phd e : yeah . grad d : and , um , in the meantime i 'll just hold out . that was the only thing i wanted to bring up . phd c : it should be soon . we we should professor b : so there 's another hundred gig . so . grad d : alright . great . phd h : mm - hmm . professor b : ok . it 's great to be able to do it , grad d : that 's it . professor b : just say `` oh yeah , a hundred gig , phd e : good . professor b : no big deal `` . grad d : yeah . grad f : yeah . a hundred gig here , a hundred gig there . phd e : well , each meeting is like a gig or something , grad f : it 's eventually real disk space . professor b : yeah . phd e : so it 's really professor b : yeah . um . yeah . i was just going to comment that i i 'm going to , uh , be on the phone with mari tomorrow , late afternoon . grad f : oh , yeah . professor b : we 're supposed to get together and talk about , uh , where we are on things . uh , there 's this meeting coming up , uh , and there 's also an annual report . now , i never actually i i was asking about this . i do n't really quite understand this . she was re she was referring to it as i think this actually did n't just come from her , but this is what , uh , darpa had asked for . um , she 's referring to it as the an annual report for the fiscal year . but of course the fiscal year starts in october , so i do n't quite understand w w why we do an annual report that we 're writing in july . phd c : she 's either really late or really early . grad f : huh . or she 's getting a good early start . professor b : uh , i think basically it it 's none of those . it 's that the meeting is in july so they so darpa just said do an annual report . so . so . so anyway , i 'll be putting together stuff . i 'll do it , uh , you know , as much as i can without bothering people , just by looking at at papers and status reports . i mean , the status reports you do are very helpful . uh , so i can grab stuff there . and if , uh if i have some questions i 'll grad f : when we remember to fill them out . professor b : yeah . if people could do it as soon as as you can , if you have n't done one si recently . uh . uh , but , you know , i 'm i 'm sure before it 's all done , i 'll end up bugging people for for more clarification about stuff . um . but , um , i do n't know , i guess i guess i know pretty much what people have been doing . we have these meetings and and there 's the status reports . uh . but , um . um . yeah . so that was n't a long one . just to tell you that . and if something has n't , uh i 'll be talking to her late tomorrow afternoon , and if something has n't been in a status report and you think it 's important thing to mention on this kind of thing , uh , uh , just pop me a one - liner and and and i 'll i 'll have it in front of me for the phone conversation . uh . i guess , uh , you you 're still pecking away at the demos and all that , probably . grad f : yep . and don is gon na be helping out with that . professor b : oh , that 's right . grad f : did you wan na talk about that this afternoon ? not here , but later today ? grad d : we should probably talk off - line about when we 're gon na talk off - line . grad f : ok . ok . professor b : ok . yeah , i might want to get updated about it in about a week cuz , um , i 'm actually gon na have a a few days off the following week , a after the after the picnic . so . grad f : oh , ok . professor b : that 's all i had . grad f : so we were gon na do sort of status of speech transcription automatic transcription , but we 're kind of running late . so . phd e : how long does it take you to save the data ? grad f : fifteen minutes . phd e : yeah . grad f : so . if you wan na do a quick phd e : yeah . grad f : ten minute phd e : guess we should stop , like , twenty of at the latest . professor b : uh phd e : we we have another meeting coming in that they wan na record . professor b : and there 's the digits to do . so maybe may maybe maybe grad f : yeah . well , we can skip the digits . professor b : we could . fi - five minute report or something . phd e : it 's up to you . i do n't professor b : yeah , yeah . grad f : whatever you want . professor b : well , i would love to hear about it , grad f : what do you have to say ? professor b : especially since grad f : i 'm interested , so professor b : yeah . well , i 'm gon na be on the phone tomorrow , so this is just a good example of the sort of thing i 'd like to hear about . phd e : wait . why is everybody looking at me ? phd c : i do n't know . grad f : sorry . professor b : cuz he looked at you phd h : what ? professor b : and says you 're sketching . phd e : uh . i 'm not sure what you were referring to . phd h : i i i i 'm not actually , i 'm not sure what ? are we supposed to have done something ? grad f : no . we were just talking before about alternating the subject of the meeting . phd e : uh - huh . grad f : and this week we were gon na try to do t automatic transcription status . phd h : alternating . phd e : i was n't here last week . sorry . grad f : but we sort of failed . phd h : we did that last week . right ? professor b : i thought we did . grad f : did we ? ok . phd h : yeah . we did . grad f : ok . so now now we have the schedule . so next week we 'll do automatic transcription status , plus anything that 's real timely . phd e : oh . ok . professor b : ok . whew ! phd c : good update . grad f : whew ! professor b : that was grad f : dodged that bullet . professor b : yeah . nicely done , liz . postdoc a : a woman of few words . professor b : but but lots of prosody . ok . ok . phd h : uh , i mean , we we really have n't done anything . grad f : excuse me ? phd h : sorry . postdoc a : well , since last week . phd e : yeah , we 're phd h : i mean , the the next thing on our agenda is to go back and look at the , um the automatic alignments because , uh , i got some i i i learned from thilo what data we can use as a benchmark to see how well we 're doing on automatic alignments of the background speech or , of the foreground speech with background speech . grad f : yeah . phd e : and then , uh , i guess , the new data that don will start to process phd h : but , we have n't actually phd e : the , um when he can get these you know , before we were working with these segments that were all synchronous and that caused a lot of problems because you have timed sp at on either side . grad f : oh . right , right . mm - hmm . phd e : and so that 's sort of a stage - two of trying the same kinds of alignments with the tighter boundaries with them is really the next step . grad f : right . postdoc a : i 'll be interested . phd e : we did get our , um i guess , good news . we got our abstract accepted for this conference , um workshop , isca workshop , in , um , uh , new jersey . and we sent in a very poor abstract , but they very poor , very quick . um , but we 're hoping to have a paper for that as well , which should be an interesting grad f : when 's it due ? phd e : the t paper is n't due until august . the abstracts were already due . so it 's that kind of workshop . grad f : mm - hmm . phd e : but , i mean , the good news is that that will have sort of the european experts in prosody sort of a different crowd , and i think we 're the only people working on prosody in meetings so far , so that should be interesting . postdoc a : what 's the name of the meeting ? phd e : uh , it 's isca workshop on prosody in speech recognition and understanding , or something like that phd h : it 's called prosody to grad f : mm - hmm . postdoc a : good . phd e : some generic uh , so it 's focused on using prosody in automatic systems and there 's a um , a web page for it . professor b : y you going to , uh , eurospeech ? yeah . grad f : i do n't have a paper phd h : yeah . grad f : but i 'd kinda like to go , if i could . is that alright ? professor b : we 'll discuss it . grad f : ok . i guess that 's `` no `` . professor b : my my my car my car needs a good wash , by the way . grad f : ok . well , that th hey , if that 's what it takes , that 's fine with me . i 'll pick up your dry - cleaning , too . should we do digits ? professor b : yeah . phd h : can i go next ? because i have to leave , actually . grad f : yep . go for it . hmm ! thanks . thank you . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about releasing meeting data and allowing people to cut things out </s> professor b : well , but we never also we 've also never done it . postdoc a : this is the first cycle . phd e : if it makes grad f : yeah . postdoc a : there 're bound to be some glitches the first time through . professor b : so . and , uh and i 'm sorry responding without , uh , having much knowledge , but the thing is , uh , i am , like , one of these people who gets a gazillion mails and and stuff comes in as grad f : well , and that 's exactly why i did it the way i did it , which is the default is if you do nothing we 're gon na release it . professor b : yeah . grad f : because , you know , i have my stack of emails of to d to be done , that , you know , fifty or sixty long , and the ones at the top i 'm never gon na get to . professor b : right . grad f : and , uh so so phd c : move them to the bottom . professor b : so so the only thing we 're missing is is some way to respond to easily to say , uh , `` ok , go ahead `` or something . grad f : yeah , right . so , i this is gon na mean phd c : just re - mail them to yourself and then they 're at the bottom . professor b : yeah . grad f : yeah . postdoc a : yeah . grad f : yeah . that 's actually definitely a good point . the m email does n't specify that you can just reply to the email , as op as opposed to going to the form postdoc a : mm - hmm . phd h : in postdoc a : and it also does n't give a a specific i did n't think of it . phd e : right . grad f : and postdoc a : s i think it 's a good idea an ex explicit time by which this will be considered definite . grad f : yeah , release . postdoc a : and and it has to be a time earlier than that endpoint . professor b : yeah . it 's converging . postdoc a : yeah . that 's right . phd h : this um , i 've seen this recently . uh , i got email , and it i if i use a mime - capable mail reader , it actually says , you know , click on this button to confirm receipt of the of the mail . postdoc a : oh , that 's interesting . phd h : so grad f : you you can grad d : it 's like certified mail . grad f : a lot of mailers support return receipt . postdoc a : could do that . phd h : right . grad f : but it does n't confirm that they 've read it . phd h : no , no , no . this is different . this is not so , i i know , you can tell , you know , the , uh , mail delivery agent to to confirm that the mail was delivered to your mailbox . grad f : right . phd h : but but , no . this was different . ins - in the mail , there was a grad f : oh , just a button . phd h : uh , th there was a button that when you clicked on it , it would send , uh , you know , a actual acknowledgement to the sender that you had actually looked at the mail . grad f : oh , yeah . yeah . unfor - yeah , we could do that . but i hate that . phd h : but it o but it only works for , you know , mime - capable you know , if you use netscape or something like that for your n grad f : yeah . professor b : and phd e : you might as well just respond to the mail . professor b : and we actually need a third thing . phd e : i mean phd h : right . professor b : it 's not that you 've looked at it , it 's that you 've looked at it and and and agree with one of the possible actions . phd h : no , no . you can do that . professor b : right ? phd h : you know , you can put this button anywhere you want , professor b : oh ? oh , i see . phd h : and you can put it the bottom of the message and say `` here , by you know , by clicking on this , i i agree uh , you know , i acknowledge `` professor b : that i i my first - born children are yours , and yeah . yeah . phd e : quick question . are , um grad f : well , i could put a url in there without any difficulty and even pretty simple mime readers can do that . so . postdoc a : but why should n't they just email back ? i do n't see there 's a problem . professor b : yeah . grad f : yeah . reply . phd h : right . postdoc a : it 's very nice . i i like the high - tech aspect of it , professor b : yeah . postdoc a : but i think phd h : no , no , no . i actually do n't . postdoc a : i appreciate it . phd h : i 'm just saying that grad f : well , i cuz i use a text mail reader . phd h : if ev but i 'm phd e : do n't you use vi for your mai ? phd h : yeah . professor b : wow . that 's that 's my guy . alright . grad f : you you read email in vi ? phd h : yeah . postdoc a : yeah . i like vi . phd h : so i i there 's these logos that you can put at the bottom of your web page , like `` powered by vi `` . grad d : yeah . i see . phd e : anyway , quick question . grad f : you could put wed bugs in the email . phd h : yeah . phd e : like , there were three meetings this time , or so or how many ? six ? but , no of different people . so i guess if you 're in both these types of meetings , you 'd have a lot . but how i mean , it also depends on how many like , if we release this time it 's a fairly small number of meetings , but what if we release , like , twenty - five meetings to people ? in th grad f : well , what my s expectation is , is that we 'll send out one of these emails every time a meeting has been checked and is ready . phd e : i do n't know . oh . oh , ok . so this time was just the first chunk . ok . grad f : so . tha - that was my intention . it 's just yeah that we just happened to have a bunch all at once . phd e : well , that 's a good idea . </s>
<s> what did the team think about sending an email to ask for changes ? </s> professor b : it well , it well , you 're right . sometimes somebody will be away and , uh , you know , there 's , uh for any length of time that you uh , choose there is some person sometime who will not end up reading it . that 's it 's , you know , just a certain risk to take . phd h : s so maybe when am i on , by the way ? grad f : i do n't know . you should be . phd h : oh . hello ? hello ? grad f : you should be channel b . phd h : oh , ok . alright . so . the , um maybe we should say in w you know , when the whole thing starts , when they sign the the agreement that you know , specify exactly uh , what , you know , how how they will be contacted and they can , you know they can be asked to give a phone number and an email address , or both . and , um , then postdoc a : we did that , i i believe . phd h : right . phd e : yeah . phd h : so . a and , then , you know , say very clearly that if they do n't if we do n't hear from them , you know , as morgan suggested , by a certain time or after a certain period after we contact them that is implicitly giving their agreement . grad f : well , they 've already signed a form . postdoc a : and the form says phd e : and nobody nobody really reads it anyway . phd h : right . grad f : so . and the s and the form was approved by human subjects , phd h : says that . right . postdoc a : uh , the f phd h : well , if that 's i tha if that 's already if grad f : so , eh , that 's gon na be a little hard to modify . postdoc a : well , the form well , the form does n't say , if uh , you know , `` if you do n't respond by x number of days or x number of weeks `` phd h : i see . uh oh , ok . so what does it say about the the the process of of , uh y the review process ? postdoc a : it does n't have a time limit . that you 'll be provided access to the transcripts and then , uh , allowed to remove things that you 'd like to remove , before it goes to the general uh , larger audience . phd h : oh , ok . hmm . right . grad f : here . postdoc a : there you go . grad f : you can read what you already signed . phd e : i guess when i read it , um i 'm not as diligent as chuck , but i had the feeling i should probably respond and tell adam , like , `` i got this and i will do it by this date , and if you do n't hear from me by then `` you know , in other words responding to your email once , right away , saying `` as soon as you get this could you please respond . `` grad f : right . phd e : and then if you if the person thinks they 'll need more time because they 're out of town or whatever , they can tell you at that point ? because grad f : oh , i just i did n't wan na do that , because i do n't wan na have a discussion with every person if i can avoid it . phd e : well , it 's grad f : so what i wanted to do was just send it out and say `` on the fifteenth , the data is released , postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad f : if you wan na do something about it , do something about it , but that 's it `` . postdoc a : i i kind of like this . phd e : well postdoc a : yeah . phd e : ok . so , we 're assuming that phd h : well , that 's that would be great if but you should probably have a legal person look at this and make sure it 's ok . because if you if you , uh , do this and you then there 's a dispute later and , uh , some you know , someone who understands these matters concludes that they did n't have , uh , you know , enough opportunity to actually exercise their their right phd e : or they they might never have gotten the email , because although they signed this , they do n't know by which date to expect your email . and so someone whose machine is down or whatever i mean , we have no professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : in internally we know that people are there , grad f : well , ok . l let me let me reverse this . phd e : but we have no confirmation that they got the mail . grad f : so let 's say someone i send this out , and someone does n't respond . do we delete every meeting that they were in ? phd e : well , then grad f : i do n't think so . phd e : it we 're hoping that does n't happen , but that 's why there 's such a thing as registered mail grad f : that will happen . phd e : or phd h : that will happen . phd e : right . grad f : that will absolutely happen . because people do n't read their email , or they 'll read and say `` i do n't care about that , i 'm not gon na delete anything `` and they don just wo n't reply to it . phd h : maybe uh , do we have mailing addresses for these people ? grad f : no . we have what they put on the speaker form , postdoc a : well { comment } most grad f : which was just generic contact information . postdoc a : but the ones that we 're dealing with now are all local , phd h : well , then postdoc a : except the ones who i mean , we we 're totally in contact with all the ones in those two groups . phd h : mmm . ok . postdoc a : so maybe , uh , i you know , that 's not that many people and if i if , uh i i there is an advantage to having them admit and if i can help with with processing that , i will . it 's it 's there is an advantage to having them be on record as having received the mail and indicating grad f : yeah . i mean i thought we had discussed this , like , a year ago . postdoc a : yes , we did . grad f : and so it seems like this is a little odd for it to be coming up yet again . postdoc a : you 're right . well , i you know . but sometimes professor b : well , we we have n't experienced it before . postdoc a : that 's right . professor b : right ? so phd e : you 'll either wonder at the beginning or you 'll wonder at the end . postdoc a : need to get it right . phd e : i mean , there 's no way to get around i it 's pretty much the same am amount of work except for an additional email just saying they got the email . postdoc a : yeah . phd e : and maybe it 's better legally to wonder before you know , a little bit earlier than grad f : well postdoc a : it 's much easier to explain this way . grad f : ok . well , why do n't you talk t postdoc a : t t to have it on record . grad f : morgan , can you talk to our lawyer about it , and find out what the status is on this ? cuz i do n't wan na do something that we do n't need to . postdoc a : yeah , but w mmm . grad f : because what i 'm telling you , people wo n't respond to the email . no matter what you do , you there 're gon na be people who you 're gon na have to make a lot of effort to get in contact with . postdoc a : well , then we make the effort . grad d : i mean , i it 's k grad f : and do we want to spend that effort ? postdoc a : we make the effort . grad d : it 's kind of like signing up for a mailing list . they have opt in and opt out . and there are two different ways . i mean , and either way works probably , i mean . postdoc a : except i really think in this case i i 'm agr i agree with liz , that we need to be in the clear and not have to after the fact say `` oh , but i assumed `` , and `` oh , i 'm sorry that your email address was just accumulating mail without notifying you `` , you know . professor b : if this is a purely administrative task , we can actually have administration do it . postdoc a : oh , excellent . professor b : but the thing is that , you know , i i i think , without going through a whole expensive thing with our lawyers , from my previous conversations with them , my my sense very much is that we would want something on record as indicating that they actually were aware of this . grad f : well , we had talked about this before professor b : mm - hmm . grad f : and i thought that we had even gone by the lawyers asking about that and they said you have to s they 've already signed away the f with that form that they 've already signed once . postdoc a : i do n't remember that this issue of the time period allowed for response was ever covered . grad f : yeah . professor b : yeah . we never really talked about that . phd e : or the date at which they would be receiving the email from you . postdoc a : or or how they would indicate professor b : yeah . phd e : they probably forgot all about it . professor b : we certainly did n't talk , uh , about with them at all about , uh , the manner of them being made the , uh , uh , materials available . phd e : yeah . phd h : we do it like with these professor b : that was something that was sort of just within our implementation . phd h : we can use it we can use a a ploy like they use to , um you know , that when they serve , like uh , uh , uh { comment } uh , you know , like dead - beat dads , they they they make it look like they won something in the lottery and then they open the envelope grad d : and they 're served . phd h : and that right ? because and then the the the the thing is served . so you just make it , you know , `` oh , you won you know , go to this web site and you 've , uh you 're `` phd e : that 's why you never open these things that come in the mail . postdoc a : that one . professor b : yeah . grad f : well , it 's just , we 've gone from one extreme to the other , where at one point , a few months ago , morgan was you were saying let 's not do anything , phd h : right . right . no , it i it might postdoc a : well , it does n't matter . phd h : i i it it might well be the case grad f : and now we 're we 're saying we have to follow up each person and get a signature ? phd h : it might right . grad f : i mean , what are we gon na doing here ? phd h : it might well be the case that that this is perfectly you know , this is enough to give us a basis t to just , eh , assume their consent if they do n't reply . professor b : well . grad f : mm - hmm . phd h : but , i 'm not you know , me not being a lawyer , i would n't just wan na do that without having the the expert , uh , opinion on that . postdoc a : and how many people ? al - altogether we 've got twenty people . these people are people who read their email almost all the time . grad f : then i think we had better find out , so that we can find a phd h : yeah . professor b : let me look at this again . grad f : right . postdoc a : i i really do n't see that it 's a problem . i i think that it 's a common courtesy to ask them uh , to expect for them to , uh , be able to have @ @ { comment } us try to contact them , grad f : for for th postdoc a : u just in case they had n't gotten their email . i think they 'd appreciate it . professor b : yeah . my adam , my my view before was about the nature of what was of the presentation , grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : of of how my my the things that we 're questioning were along the lines of how easy uh , h how m how much implication would there be that it 's likely you 're going to be changing something , as opposed to grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : that was the kind of dispute i was making before . postdoc a : mm - hmm . i remember that . professor b : but , um , the attorneys , i uh , i can guarantee you , the attorneys will always come back with and we have to decide how stringent we want to be in these things , but they will always come back with saying that , um , you need to you want to have someth some paper trail or which includes electronic trail that they have , uh , in fact o k 'd it . grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : so , um , i think that if you f i if we send the email as you have and if there 's half the people , say , who do n't respond at all by , you know , some period of time , we can just make a list of these people and hand it to , uh you know , just give it to me and i 'll hand it to administrative staff or whatever , grad f : right . professor b : and they 'll just call them up and say , you know , `` have you is is this ok ? and would you please mail you know , mail adam that it is , if i if it , you know , is or not . `` so , you know , we can we can do that . phd e : the other thing that there 's a psychological effect that at least for most people , that if they 've responded to your email saying `` yes , i will do it `` or `` yes , i got your email `` , they 're more likely to actually do it { comment } later than to just ignore it . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and of course we do n't want them to bleep things out , but it it 's a little bit better if we 're getting the their , uh , final response , once they 've answered you once than if they never answer you 'd { comment } at al at all . that 's how these mailing houses work . so , i mean , it 's not completely lost work because it might benefit us in terms of getting responses . postdoc a : mm - hmm . phd e : you know , an official ok from somebody is better than no answer , even if they responded that they got your email . and they 're probably more likely to do that once they 've responded that they got the email . postdoc a : i also think they 'd just simply appreciate it . i think it 's a good a good way of of fostering goodwill among our subjects . well , our participants . professor b : i think the main thing is i mean , what lawyers do is they always look at worst cases . grad f : sending lots of spam . professor b : so they s so so tha - that 's what they 're paid to do . and so , it is certainly possible that , uh , somebody 's server would be down or something and they would n't actually hear from us , and then they find this thing is in there and we 've already distributed it to someone . so , what it says in there , in fact , is that they will be given an opportunity to blah - blah - blah , postdoc a : mm - hmm . professor b : but if in fact if we sent them something or we thought we sent them something but they did n't actually receive it for some reason , um , then we have n't given them that . grad f : well , so how far do we have to go ? do we need to get someone 's signature ? or , is email enough ? professor b : i i i em email is enough . grad f : do we have to have it notarized ? i mean ok . professor b : yeah . i mean , i 've been through this i mean , i 'm not a lawyer , but i 've been through these things a f things f like this a few times with lawyers now grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : so i i i i 'm pretty comfortable with that . phd c : do you track , um , when people log in to look at the ? grad f : uh . if they submit the form , i get it . phd c : uh - huh . grad f : if they do n't submit the form , it goes in the general web log . but that 's not sufficient . right ? cuz if someone just visits the web site that does n't imply anything in particular . phd c : except that you know they got the mail . postdoc a : mm - hmm . that 's right . grad f : right . postdoc a : i i could get you on the notify list if you want me to . grad f : i 'm already on it . postdoc a : for that directory ? ok , great . grad f : mm - hmm . professor b : so again , hopefully , um , this should n't be quite as odious a problem either way , uh , in any of the extremes we 've talked about because uh , we 're talking a pretty small number of people . grad f : w for this set , i 'm not worried , because we basically know everyone on it . professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad f : you know , they 're all more or less here or it 's it 's eric and dan and so on . but for some of the others , you 're talking about visitors who are gone from icsi , whose email addresses may or may not work , professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad f : and so what are we gon na do when we run into someone that we ca n't get in touch with ? postdoc a : i do n't think , uh they 're so recent , these visitors . grad f : mm - hmm . postdoc a : i and and i they 're also so professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc a : they 're prominent enough that they 're easy to find through i i mean , i i w i 'll be able to if you have any trouble finding them , i really think i could find them . grad f : other methods ? ok . professor b : yeah . cuz it what it what it really does promise here is that we will ask their permission . um , and i think , you know , if you go into a room and close the door and and ask their permission and they 're not there , it does n't seem { comment } that that 's the intent of , uh , meaning here . so . grad f : well , the qu the question is just whether how active it has to be . i mean , because they they filled out a contact information and that 's where i 'm sending the information . professor b : right . grad f : and so far everyone has done email . there is n't anyone who did , uh , any other contact method . professor b : well , the way icsi goes , people , uh , who , uh , were here ten years ago still have acc have forwards to other accounts and so on . grad f : yeah . professor b : so it 's unusual that that they , uh grad f : so my original impression was that that was sufficient , that if they give us contact information and that contact information is n't accurate that we fulfilled our burden . professor b : yeah . phd e : then they just come back . phd c : all my files were still here . phd e : same as us . postdoc a : i just professor b : so if we get to a boundary case like that then maybe i will call the attorney about it . phd c : yeah . professor b : but , you know , hopefully we wo n't need to . postdoc a : i d i just do n't think we will . for all the reasons that we 've discussed . grad f : alright . professor b : so we 'll we 'll see if we do or not . grad f : yep . and we 'll see how many people respond to that email . postdoc a : yeah . grad f : so far , two people have . professor b : yeah . i think very few people will and and and , you know , people people see long emails about things that they do n't think is gon na be high priority , they typically , uh , do n't do n't read it , or half read it . grad f : right . professor b : cuz people are swamped . postdoc a : and actually , professor b : but postdoc a : um , i i did n't anticipate this so i that 's why i did n't give this comment , and it i this discussion has made me think it might be nice to have a follow - up email within the next couple of days saying `` by the way , you know , we wan na hear back from you by x date and please `` , and then add what liz said `` please , uh , respond to please indicate you received this mail . `` professor b : uh , or e well , maybe even additionally , uh , um , `` even if you 've decided you have no changes you 'd like to make , if you could tell us that `` . grad f : respond to the email . { comment } yep . postdoc a : mm - hmm . it is the first time through the cycle . professor b : yeah . phd e : right . that would that would definitely work on me . you know , it makes you feel m like , um , if you were gon na p if you 're predicting that you might not answer , you have a chance now to say that . whereas , i i mean , i would be much more likely myself , phd c : and the other th phd e : given all my email , t to respond at that point , saying `` you know what , i 'm probably not gon na get to it `` or whatever , rather than just having seen the email , thinking i might get to it , and never really , uh , pushing myself to actually do it until it 's too late . phd c : yeah . i was i was thinking that it also lets them know that they do n't have to go to the page to accept this . phd e : right . r right . that 's true . professor b : right . phd c : i mean , i i yeah . so that way they could they can see from that email that if they just write back and say `` i got it , no changes `` , they 're off the hook . professor b : yeah . phd c : they do n't have to go to the web page professor b : i mean , the other thing i 've learned from dealing with dealing with people sending in reviews and so forth , uh , is , um , if you say `` you 've got three months to do this review `` , um , people do it , you know , two and seven eighths months from now . phd c : and phd e : yeah . that 's true . professor b : if you say `` you 've got three weeks to do this review `` , they do do it , you know , two and seven eighths weeks from now they do the review . grad f : right . professor b : and , um so , if we make it a little less time , i do n't think it 'll be that much grad f : well , and also if we want it ready by the fifteenth , that means we better give them deadline of the first , if we have any prayer of actually getting everyone to respond in time . professor b : there 's the responding part and there 's also what if , uh , i mean , i hope this does n't happen , what if there are a bunch of deletions that have to get put in and changes ? grad f : right . professor b : then we actually have to deal with that postdoc a : mm - hmm . some lead time . professor b : if we want it to grad f : ugh ! disk space , postdoc a : by the way , has has jeremy signed the form ? grad f : oh my god ! i had n't thought about that . that for every meeting any meeting which has any bleeps in it we need yet another copy of . phd c : just that channel . grad d : ca n't you just do that channel ? phd c : oh , no . we have to do grad f : no , of course not . phd e : yeah . you have to do all of them , grad f : you need all the channels . phd c : do you have to do the other close - talking ? phd e : as well as all of these . grad d : yeah . phd e : you have to do all you could just do it in that time period , though , grad f : yes . absolutely . there 's a lot of cross - talk . postdoc a : well phd e : but i guess it 's a pain . grad f : well , but you have to copy the whole file . phd e : yeah . grad f : right ? because we 're gon na be releasing the whole file . phd e : yeah . you 're right . postdoc a : well i you know , i think at a certain point , that copy that has the deletions will become the master copy . grad f : yeah . it 's just i hate deleting any data . so i i do n't want i really would rather make a copy of it , rather than bleep it out professor b : are you del are you bleeping it by adding ? grad f : and then overlapping . so , it 's it 's exactly a censor bleep . so what i really think is `` bleep `` professor b : i i i i understand , but is is it summing signals grad f : and then i want to professor b : or do you delete the old one and put the new one in ? grad f : i delete the old one , put the new one in . professor b : oh , ok . cuz grad f : there 's nothing left of the original signal . professor b : oh . cuz if you were summing , you could no . but anyway grad f : yeah . it would be qui quite easy to get it back again . postdoc a : but and then w i was gon na say also that the they do n't have to stay on the system , as you know , professor b : yeah . phd e : then someday we can sell the unedited versions . postdoc a : cuz cuz the the ones grad f : say again ? postdoc a : once it 's been successfully bleeped , ca n't you rely on the ? phd c : or we 'll tell people the frequency of the beep professor b : encrypt it . phd c : and then they could subtract the beep out . grad d : you can hide it . yeah . postdoc a : ca n't you rely on the archiving to preserve the older version ? phd h : oh , yeah . grad d : it would n't be that hard to hide it . phd e : right . exactly . i see . grad f : yeah , that 's true . yeah . yep , that 's true . phd e : see , this is good . i wanted to create some side conversations in these meetings . professor b : yeah . you could encrypt it , you know , with a with a two hundred bit thousand bit , uh grad d : you can use spread spectrum . phd c : uh - huh . grad d : hide it . phd e : so phd c : here we go . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad d : yeah , there you go . phd e : cuz we do n't have enough asides . phd h : i have an idea . you reverse the signal , grad d : there you go . phd h : so it it lets people say what they said backwards . grad f : backwards . grad d : then you have , like , subliminal , uh , messages , grad f : but , ha you 've seen the this the speech recognition system that reversed very short segments . phd h : yeah . grad d : like . grad f : did you read that paper ? it would n't work . the speech recognizer still works . phd e : yeah . and if you do it backward then professor b : yeah . phd c : that 's cuz they use forward - backward . phd e : h - good old hmm . grad f : forward but backward . that 's right . phd e : no , it 's backward - forward . grad f : good point . a point . well , i 'm sorry if i sound a little peeved about this whole thing . it 's just we 've had meeting after meeting after meeting a on this and it seems like we 've never gotten it resolved . professor b : well , but we never also we 've also never done it . postdoc a : this is the first cycle . phd e : if it makes grad f : yeah . postdoc a : there 're bound to be some glitches the first time through . professor b : so . and , uh and i 'm sorry responding without , uh , having much knowledge , but the thing is , uh , i am , like , one of these people who gets a gazillion mails and and stuff comes in as grad f : well , and that 's exactly why i did it the way i did it , which is the default is if you do nothing we 're gon na release it . professor b : yeah . grad f : because , you know , i have my stack of emails of to d to be done , that , you know , fifty or sixty long , and the ones at the top i 'm never gon na get to . </s>
<s> what did grad f think about getting consent ? </s> professor b : um . yeah . grad f : so . i do n't expect anyone to . but . professor b : um . so , w what follows ? at some point y you go around and get people to sign something ? grad f : no . we had spoken w about this before professor b : yeah , but i 've forgotten . grad f : and we had decided that they have they only needed to sign once . and the agreement that they already signed simply said that we would give them an opportunity . so as long as we do that , we 're covered . professor b : and how long of an opportunity did you tell them ? phd e : well , then grad f : i do n't think so . phd e : it we 're hoping that does n't happen , but that 's why there 's such a thing as registered mail grad f : that will happen . phd e : or phd h : that will happen . phd e : right . grad f : that will absolutely happen . because people do n't read their email , or they 'll read and say `` i do n't care about that , i 'm not gon na delete anything `` and they don just wo n't reply to it . phd h : maybe uh , do we have mailing addresses for these people ? grad f : no . we have what they put on the speaker form , postdoc a : well { comment } most grad f : which was just generic contact information . postdoc a : but the ones that we 're dealing with now are all local , phd h : well , then postdoc a : except the ones who i mean , we we 're totally in contact with all the ones in those two groups . phd h : mmm . ok . postdoc a : so maybe , uh , i you know , that 's not that many people and if i if , uh i i there is an advantage to having them admit and if i can help with with processing that , i will . it 's it 's there is an advantage to having them be on record as having received the mail and indicating grad f : yeah . i mean i thought we had discussed this , like , a year ago . postdoc a : yes , we did . grad f : and so it seems like this is a little odd for it to be coming up yet again . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about new headphones and disk space </s> postdoc a : and then i also the final thing i have for transcription is that i made a purchase of some other headphones because of the problem of low gain in the originals . and and they very much appro they mu much prefer the new ones , and actually i i mean , i i think that there will be fewer things to correct because of the the choice . we 'd originally chosen , uh , very expensive head headsets grad f : yeah . ugh ! postdoc a : but , um , they 're just not as good as these , um , in this with this respect to this particular task . phd h : well , return the old ones . grad f : it 's probably impedance matching problems . postdoc a : i do n't know exactly , grad f : but postdoc a : but we chose them because that 's what 's been used here by prominent projects in transcription . professor b : could be . postdoc a : so it i we had every reason to think they would work . grad f : mm - hmm . phd h : so you have spare headsets ? postdoc a : sorry , what ? phd h : you have spare headsets ? grad f : they 're just earphones . they 're not headsets . they 're not microphones . phd e : right . phd h : no , no . i mean , just earphones ? um , because i , uh , i could use one on my workstation , just to t because sometimes i have to listen to audio files and i do n't have to b go borrow it from someone and postdoc a : we have actua actually i have w well , the thing is , that if we have four people come to work for a day , i was i was hanging on to the others for , eh for spares , phd h : oh , ok . postdoc a : but i can tell you what i recommend . professor b : no , but you 'd if you yeah , w we should get it . phd h : sure . no problem . grad f : but if you need it , just get it . phd h : i just grad f : come on . phd h : right . professor b : yeah . if you need it . phd h : yeah . professor b : yeah . postdoc a : it 'd just have to be a s a separate order an added order . grad d : yeah , i still i still need to get a pair , too . professor b : they 're they 're they 're they 're pretty inexpensive . phd e : yeah , that we should order a cou uh , t two or three or four , actually . professor b : yeah . grad d : i 'm using one of these . yeah . phd e : we have phd h : i think i have a pair that i brought from home , but it 's f just for music listening professor b : no . just just just just buy them . phd e : sh - just get the model number phd h : and it 's not nnn . yeah . professor b : just buy them . phd e : and where do you buy these from ? phd h : yeah . postdoc a : cambridge soundworks , just down the street . phd e : like ? you just b go and b postdoc a : yeah . they always have them in stock . professor b : yeah . phd e : that 'd be a good idea . phd h : anyway . professor b : yeah . grad f : w uh , could you email out the brand ? postdoc a : oh , sure . yeah . ok . grad f : cuz i think sounds like people are interested . grad d : yeah . professor b : yeah . grad d : definitely . postdoc a : it 's made a difference in in how easy . yeah . professor b : i realized something i should talk about . so what 's the other thing on the agenda actually ? grad f : uh , the only one was don wanted to , uh , talk about disk space yet again . grad d : yeah . u it 's short . i mean , if you wan na go , we can just throw it in at the end . professor b : no , no . why do n't you why do n't you go ahead since it 's short . grad d : um , well , uh . grad f : oh , i thought you meant the disk space . yeah , we know disk space is short . phd h : the disk space was short . yeah . that 's what i thought too . phd e : that 's a great ambiguity . professor b : yeah . phd e : it 's one of these it 's it 's social professor b : it 's i i i it i phd e : and , uh , discourse level grad d : yeah . phd e : and professor b : yeah , it 's great . yeah , phd e : sorry . professor b : double double grad f : yeah , it was really goo phd e : see , if i had that little scratch - pad , i would have made an x there . grad d : thank you , thank you . grad f : uh , well , we 'll give you one then . professor b : yeah . grad d : um . so , um , without thinking about it , when i offered up my hard drive last week grad f : oh , no . grad d : um , this is always a suspect phrase . phd e : it was while i was out of town . grad d : but , um , no . i , uh i realized that we 're going to be doing a lot of experiments , um , o for this , uh , paper we 're writing , so we 're probably gon na need a lot more we 're probably gon na need that disk space that we had on that eighteen gig hard drive . but , um , we also have someone else coming in that 's gon na help us out with some stuff . professor b : we 've just ordered a hundred gigabytes . grad d : so ok . we just need to phd e : i think we need , like , another eighteen gig disk to be safe . professor b : well , we 're getting three thirty thirty - sixes . right ? that are going into the main f file server . phd c : markham 's ordering and they should be coming in soon . grad d : w well . so so grad f : soon ? grad d : yeah . i mean , i guess the thing is is , all i need is to hang it off , like , the person who 's coming in , sonali 's , computer . phd h : oh , so so , you mean the d the internal the disks on the machines that we just got ? grad d : whew . or we can move them . phd c : these are gon na go onto abbott . grad f : ne - new disks . phd h : or extra disk ? professor b : onto abbott , the file server . grad d : so are we gon na move the stuff off of my hard drive onto that when those come in ? grad f : on phd h : oh , oh . ok . grad f : yeah . phd e : uh , i grad f : once they come in . sure . grad d : ok . that 's fine . phd e : do when when is this planned for roughly ? phd c : they should be i i imagine next week or something . phd e : ok . so grad f : if you 're if you 're desperate , i have some space on my drive . grad d : i think if i 'm grad f : but i i vacillate between no space free and a few gig free . grad d : yeah . i think i can find something if i 'm desperate phd e : yeah . grad d : and , um , in the meantime i 'll just hold out . that was the only thing i wanted to bring up . phd c : it should be soon . we we should professor b : so there 's another hundred gig . so . grad d : alright . great . phd h : mm - hmm . professor b : ok . it 's great to be able to do it , grad d : that 's it . professor b : just say `` oh yeah , a hundred gig , phd e : good . professor b : no big deal `` . grad d : yeah . grad f : yeah . a hundred gig here , a hundred gig there . phd e : well , each meeting is like a gig or something , grad f : it 's eventually real disk space . professor b : yeah . </s>
<s> what did postdoc a think about new headphones ? </s> grad f : yeah . ugh ! postdoc a : but , um , they 're just not as good as these , um , in this with this respect to this particular task . phd h : well , return the old ones . grad f : it 's probably impedance matching problems . postdoc a : i do n't know exactly , grad f : but postdoc a : but we chose them because that 's what 's been used here by prominent projects in transcription . professor b : could be . postdoc a : so it i we had every reason to think they would work . grad f : mm - hmm . phd h : so you have spare headsets ? postdoc a : sorry , what ? phd h : you have spare headsets ? grad f : they 're just earphones . they 're not headsets . they 're not microphones . phd e : right . phd h : no , no . i mean , just earphones ? um , because i , uh , i could use one on my workstation , just to t because sometimes i have to listen to audio files and i do n't have to b go borrow it from someone and postdoc a : we have actua actually i have w well , the thing is , that if we have four people come to work for a day , i was i was hanging on to the others for , eh for spares , phd h : oh , ok . postdoc a : but i can tell you what i recommend . professor b : no , but you 'd if you yeah , w we should get it . phd h : sure . no problem . grad f : but if you need it , just get it . phd h : i just grad f : come on . phd h : right . professor b : yeah . if you need it . phd h : yeah . professor b : yeah . postdoc a : it 'd just have to be a s a separate order an added order . grad d : yeah , i still i still need to get a pair , too . professor b : they 're they 're they 're they 're pretty inexpensive . phd e : yeah , that we should order a cou uh , t two or three or four , actually . professor b : yeah . grad d : i 'm using one of these . yeah . phd e : we have phd h : i think i have a pair that i brought from home , but it 's f just for music listening professor b : no . just just just just buy them . phd e : sh - just get the model number phd h : and it 's not nnn . yeah . professor b : just buy them . phd e : and where do you buy these from ? phd h : yeah . postdoc a : cambridge soundworks , just down the street . phd e : like ? you just b go and b </s>
<s> what did the professor think about headphones and disk space ? </s> professor b : no , but you 'd if you yeah , w we should get it . phd h : sure . no problem . grad f : but if you need it , just get it . phd h : i just grad f : come on . phd h : right . professor b : yeah . if you need it . phd h : yeah . professor b : yeah . postdoc a : it 'd just have to be a s a separate order an added order . grad d : yeah , i still i still need to get a pair , too . professor b : they 're they 're they 're they 're pretty inexpensive . phd e : yeah , that we should order a cou uh , t two or three or four , actually . professor b : yeah . grad d : i 'm using one of these . yeah . phd e : we have phd h : i think i have a pair that i brought from home , but it 's f just for music listening professor b : no . just just just just buy them . phd e : sh - just get the model number phd h : and it 's not nnn . yeah . professor b : just buy them . phd e : and where do you buy these from ? phd h : yeah . postdoc a : cambridge soundworks , just down the street . phd e : like ? you just b go and b postdoc a : yeah . they always have them in stock . professor b : yeah . phd e : that 'd be a good idea . phd h : anyway . professor b : yeah . grad f : w uh , could you email out the brand ? postdoc a : oh , sure . yeah . ok . grad f : cuz i think sounds like people are interested . grad d : yeah . professor b : yeah . grad d : definitely . postdoc a : it 's made a difference in in how easy . yeah . professor b : i realized something i should talk about . so what 's the other thing on the agenda actually ? grad f : uh , the only one was don wanted to , uh , talk about disk space yet again . grad d : yeah . u it 's short . i mean , if you wan na go , we can just throw it in at the end . professor b : no , no . why do n't you why do n't you go ahead since it 's short . grad d : um , well , uh . grad f : oh , i thought you meant the disk space . yeah , we know disk space is short . phd h : the disk space was short . yeah . that 's what i thought too . phd e : that 's a great ambiguity . professor b : yeah . phd e : it 's one of these it 's it 's social professor b : it 's i i i it i phd e : and , uh , discourse level grad d : yeah . phd e : and professor b : yeah , it 's great . yeah , phd e : sorry . professor b : double double grad f : yeah , it was really goo phd e : see , if i had that little scratch - pad , i would have made an x there . grad d : thank you , thank you . grad f : uh , well , we 'll give you one then . professor b : yeah . grad d : um . so , um , without thinking about it , when i offered up my hard drive last week grad f : oh , no . grad d : um , this is always a suspect phrase . phd e : it was while i was out of town . grad d : but , um , no . i , uh i realized that we 're going to be doing a lot of experiments , um , o for this , uh , paper we 're writing , so we 're probably gon na need a lot more we 're probably gon na need that disk space that we had on that eighteen gig hard drive . but , um , we also have someone else coming in that 's gon na help us out with some stuff . professor b : we 've just ordered a hundred gigabytes . grad d : so ok . we just need to phd e : i think we need , like , another eighteen gig disk to be safe . professor b : well , we 're getting three thirty thirty - sixes . right ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : hi kate . okay , carry on . industrial designer : just just carry on . project manager : alright um this is the beginning of the third meeting , the conceptual design meeting . um our agenda should be um that we 're opening the meeting , i have the minutes from the previous meeting are on the shared f drive at this point . um and we should each have a presentation to make . um we have certain decisions to make and we have forty minutes total . it 's twenty five after two at the moment , so forty minutes is five after three , um which i 'll be keeping an eye on the clock for us . okay . um there are the decisions we have to turn to , but we 'll come back to them in a minute after i take us to the minutes of the previous meeting . right um as we remember , i opened the meeting , the four of us were present , the meeting the first meeting 's minutes were reviewed and approved . um sarah , you presented a marketing research report um which pretty much rep represented that fifteen to thirty five year olds uh it has to be hand-held , power , channel , volume , number keys , possibly a speech recognition . and then steph did a second presentation um that those functions plus streamlining them with big user-friendly keys that were easy to use . i think all of us agreed with those things . kate presented a working design of going after going over the basics on the whiteboard um that it should be a simple mass-produced device , because of the twelve and a half pence cost . um but we did talk about possibly using rechargeable batteries and having a docking place as a selling point . um and the new requirements that it for be for tv only um and that it include the l so slogan and colour of the uh corporate design be included . um the corporate image . so we agreed that the target market would be fifteen to thirty five with more money than sense , that were decision makers . alternatively it would be a manufacturer to enclose it with the tv , but it still should meet those parameters . um and that the function we agreed was volume , power , numbers , enter , channels , a way to move between channels , easy to use and hand-held . um at that point we agreed that sarah would look at the current cost of competition , what what do the current ones sell for . um and steph was gon na look at ec ergonomics . kate was gon na look at cost and feasibility of the various possibilities that we discussed . and i was to type up these minutes and work on the final report . is this a fair presentation of what our last meeting was ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . right . so we 're ready to close that and go back to our that one . right . we 're up to the point of the go back . um the three presentations . so we 're going to pull the plug on me and turn to sarah . is that okay ? is that alright with everybody else ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : especially since kate asked to be last . sarah , i 'm sorry if i misspelled your name , i did n't know whether it was s_a_r_a_ or s_a_r_h_ . marketing : i respond to either . project manager : you respond to whatever you get , huh ? marketing : no worries . project manager : okay . um , did you do your hit user interface : yeah , project manager : ah , there it is . ta-da . marketing : okay , first thing i want to address is um one of the points that florence brought up , which was uh current cost of the competition devices , similar to the ones that stephanie uh showed us and and they 're uh twenty to sixty euros , depending on uh branding . user interface : right . marketing : some of them that have a higher brand recognition are on the more expensive end . but i think that with the current um price that we 're searching for , we 're well within , even on the lower end , of the uh of the market . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : but i 'm going to move on to more interesting um more vibrant things . so , i investigated the remote control market in greater detail , and my uh the theme of what i was to work on was uh trend watch . user interface : marketing : and project manager : 'kay . user interface : industrial designer : sorry . user interface : marketing : project manager : user interface : industrial designer : i 'm glad to see the marketing budget is being so well spent on . marketing : project manager : marketing : i know that you all are a distance from cutting edge marketing research , industrial designer : marketing : so you know , i 'm just gon na try to cloak it in really professional terms here . what 's hot , fruit and veg . spongy . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : and this is all over the catwalks , paris , milan , and i 'm talking about clothing , furniture , shoes . industrial designer : marketing : this is really interesting change from past years , user interface : marketing : because it is much more organic , um some would say approachable . and i think if we 're to refashion our view of what we want in a remote control , we should perhaps think about incorporating technologically interesting fabrics and some of the bold colours into a simple handset . so . i also did a little research on um what again are the most important priorities in uh decision making about uh purchasing . fancy . functional is out . and f the fancy , and that 's exactly the term , i 'm i 'm thinking polished , elegant , you know , kind of innovative , but a cut above . this is twice as important as the next finding , which is technologically innovative . this is interesting , 'cause i think in the last meeting we were talking about technology as being so important , but maybe what 's innovative is having it simple with um with uh technologically superior fabrics or uh , you know , designed in interesting substances . ease of use . again , pretty low , i mean it 's the top three , but each of the uh fancy and technologically innovative are far more important . so i think we should cloak the streamlined remote control device in a series of fruit fruit themed sleeves . user interface : industrial designer : i think that 's a good idea . do n't you ? marketing : y yeah , you know project manager : it sounds like the the uh covers that they use for the remote , you know , your t your cell phone . marketing : exactly . exactly . i was thinking though that instead of having something uh like patterned , you know , so , you know , something similar to a summer dress . you know , it would have like fruit and veg , is that we actually make these spongy . they could be ini initially i thought we could start with kind of um fruit that would suit kind of uh a long uh hand-held , so banana , pineapple and pear . um it could actually the sleeve could take up a lot of the development and the remote control , we 'd just need to get reductionist on it . user interface : marketing : they could be interchangeable , they 're spongy , that goes back to ergonomic , and the youngsters love 'em , fun for the whole family , everyone can have their own . so what we 're talking about is changing . this concept . everyone has a tv remote , but then we add in the fact that they could each have their own individual fruit . user interface : marketing : that 's what 's hot on the catwalks . so , this is my this is what i 'm thinking . user interface : project manager : uh-huh mm . in most families , do n't is n't the remote is a remote . marketing : y yeah , but i think i think what this would allow is perhaps a person in the family who had the most opinion about it we all need a remote , but the person who is really perhaps active in personalising , i 'm thinking the teenager , the someone fifteen to thirty five would go out and get this additional thing the same way as you mentioned that people would get the cell phone covers . user interface : so when your dad 's sitting there , overriding your decision , going no we 're gon na watch this , you can bring out your own remote and be like zap , no we 're gon na watch this . marketing : yeah . w and plus i think project manager : mm . well actually some households do have three and four tvs marketing : uh yeah . project manager : and they would have a remote for each one , marketing : yeah . yeah . so this is an idea and i i you know , this is exactly what the research has uh has shown . so i really open this up to uh any other feedback . this spongy fruit and veg . industrial designer : yeah , i i think we 're gon na have some trouble when we get down to the component design on this . marketing : thanks . alright . industrial designer : spongy is gon na be difficult , i 'm afraid . user interface : yep . and as for as for um well budgeting as well , if we 're gon na have lots of different interchangeable components . project manager : hmm . marketing : i i just have my ear to the market , guys . user interface : is this to the market ? industrial designer : yeah , i mean basically we can make these things out of wood , titanium , plastic or rubber . i suppose rubber is the closest to spongy , marketing : is spongiest , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that would add industrial designer : i was thinking titanium myself . user interface : i was thinking titanium , i was thinking it 's just i have been influenced by pictures of ipods , and they 're also minimalist and shiny . marketing : mm-hmm . they are and they they would fulfil the uh first um priority , which is fancy . i think many of us would associate those with fancy . something else we could do is uh call it something that 's fruit and veg oriented . we could call it uh the name . project manager : are we talking about the device itself or the c or a cover for the device that would be an interchangeable cov cover as a separate product ? marketing : well it would be uh a a very simple product that would have a spongy sleeve that would be interchangeable . so project manager : perhaps perhaps that desi that particular suggestion needs to go back to management user interface : yeah , but it 's kind of pointless , is n't it ? project manager : and perhaps go to another group to actually design as a separate product . user interface : yeah . marketing : that , you know , that might be user interface : let 's delegate . project manager : wo would that be agreeable ? marketing : and then we could keep it titanium . industrial designer : yeah . w w would it be helpful if um i described the components a bit , because i think it would give you um maybe bring this discussion back to earth of what we can actually physically do . user interface : yeah , maybe . or project manager : do you wan na be next or you want kate to go next ? user interface : i think possibly it might be more useful if kate went next . project manager : okay , we 'll move the user interface : um industrial designer : user interface : you can even have them in different flavours as well . so that if you just wan na sit there and chew on the remote , it could be like pear flavour , marketing : yeah . or s or smelly . scratchy user interface : yeah . scratch and sniff . marketing : uh well i was really thinking a lot about the i_ uh the imac kind of gel gem tone . industrial designer : right , well marketing : it 's hot on the streets , guys . industrial designer : i i i think some of this um user interface : industrial designer : you 're gon na be a little disappointed with some of the things i have to tell you , but i 'm afraid this is the real world . so um i 've been looking at the the basics of how these devices actually have to work in order to operate , and i 've had some discussions with the ma manufacturing division , who have told me what 's actually available , you know , what the current state of the art in components is , and some of the exciting new things they 've got , but i 'm not sure that it 's quite what you want um . now this is n't a very good overhead , but this is just to show you , this is the innards of a remote control um . i really need a pen or something but uh does my mouse work ? no . um oh yeah , can you see my little mouse pointer ? right . this is this is the a a a remote that 's been opened up and that 's the the back of the interface . and this is a push-button one , so you see these little little buttons here , they 're little rubber rubber buttons that go through onto the the board at the back and they push these buttons here . um and we that 's the basic construction that we 've got to got to accommodate . we got to have something that pushes the little buttons that um talk to the chip that encodes the message that sends the the message to the receiver . so um i wan i wan na go through not not just addressing the um uh the the points that you made , sarah , but um doing my presentation in the order i wrote it . so first of all um i wan na talk about what possibilities we 've got for the energy source . marketing : industrial designer : um we can have your bog standard double double a_ batteries in a replaceable um little compartment . we can have a hand sorry user interface : a wind-up . marketing : industrial designer : a wind-up , yeah , which i think is quite an interesting concept for a sorry for a remote control , marketing : project manager : industrial designer : but i it maybe is does n't quite go with the um the fruit and veg . marketing : project manager : alright . industrial designer : um one that one that i think is quite interesting is the kinetic energy source , marketing : project manager : remember , we only have forty minutes industrial designer : where um you you actually get the energy by moving the device , which is quite a ni a nice and neat one . you have to it means that if it 's sitting there for a long time it probably wo n't work , but you have to sort of throw it between your hands every now and then , it 'll work . user interface : industrial designer : or we we had talked about solar power , but i thing that we agreed that that 's not so good in the dark . now i 'm afraid this is the options we 've got on on the case . it can be made of plastic , rubber , wood o if you like , or titanium . marketing : hmm . user interface : industrial designer : um and the nearest we 've got to st to spongy there i guess is rubber , but um i 'm gon na come back to the advantages of titanium , and basically it can have a flat surface , a curved surface or a double curved surface , but i think if we wan na use standard components , we 're gon na have difficulty with anything much beyond that . okay , what does the interface look like ? um well push button , that 's that 's the one we 're all familiar with . um we can have scroll buttons and the the scroll button can incorporate a push , so you can have it like on a mouse where you can use it to go up and down , change volume or channel or something like that and push to select something . um you can have multiple scroll buttons , um this is maybe getting a little bit complicated , but um it 's it the technology is there . and we can also incorporate an lcd display in the remote , but this will increase the cost . um the electronics that actually makes the device work , we 've basically got three , simple , regular , advanced , and the price goes up as we choose each of this . if we want the nice cheap one , the simple , then we can only have push buttons . all the other fancy interface designs go out the window , i 'm afraid . um pay a little bit more for a regular chip and you can have scroll buttons . if you want the advanced chip it obviously costs more , but it that 's what you need if you want the lcd display . and the manufacturing devision tell me that they have recently developed um sample sensor sample speaker devices . now i do n't know what that is , but i think they think it 's quite important and we might want to incorporate it somewhere . um ou our real expertise is in push buttons , i have to say , but maybe you think that 's old technology . and well i i think we 've got two options . we can either go for a really cheap model , keep all of the costs down , um which means a flat plastic case with an ordinary battery and simple push buttons . or we can have something that looks a bit nicer , i think it , um wo n't necessarily l uh look like a pineapple , but um that may or may not be a good thing . marketing : user interface : industrial designer : sorry . um but it could have an lcd screen and it could have multiple scroll buttons , and it could have the the company 's new development of the um sample sensor and speaker . so , thank you . marketing : that sounds good . any idea you you mentioned that there would be a cost difference . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : um do you have any idea if if this could if the fancy model could be done in twelve euros fifty ? industrial designer : i 'm afraid i do n't have that information available . um manufacturing did n't actually give attach any prices to any of this , i 'm afraid . marketing : hmm . because , you know what , i 'm being quite serious when i say that that um the things i mentioned are hot . but i think the important thing might be to choose one . industrial designer : yeah mm-hmm . marketing : you know , if if what you 're telling me is is um some of these things are n't just f are n't feasible , maybe we could something about naming , we could call it , you know , blackberry . user interface : bear bear in mind it has to be the colours and styles of the company , marketing : that 's uh user interface : so what i had been thinking was something chunky and yellow and plastic with black buttons with a logo on it . industrial designer : banana ? marketing : alright , well let 's see then . user interface : but um i i do n't know how important that is to keep it exactly the colours of the real reaction company . marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's just what i 'd understood we 'd be doing . that 's before i heard about all this hot tips about the future , fruit-wise . marketing : yeah . but yeah , industrial designer : we we could we could do um a double curved rubber one , marketing : i 'm trying to streamline mine a little bit . industrial designer : which would allow um say a banana , but um unfortunately i see from my notes that if we do that , we have to have a push button as the interface , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we ca n't do anything fancier . user interface : shall we wait 'til i 've 'til i 've showed you what well , my extensive presentation on what sort of interfaces are available . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . mm . thank you , kate . project manager : thank you , kate . user interface : you did seem to include just in more detail what i 've got though . so so mine 's a bit pointless . right . industrial designer : user interface : f_n_ and f_ eight , did you say ? project manager : yes . there we go . industrial designer : user interface : i do n't have it on mine though . marketing : oh i think um florence resolved it by industrial designer : i if you do f_ uh f_n_ f_ eight again , it 's it 'll project manager : do it again . marketing : f_ eight again . project manager : keep doing it until you get it in both you get it there , you get it yours without that one , industrial designer : i think it yeah , you you will do an project manager : and then you get it with both . user interface : should i do it again ? project manager : yeah . marketing : maybe . industrial designer : project manager : this time it should come up both . user interface : right then . i do n't actually have a huge amount of different information then what kate says , project manager : okay . user interface : just that my method was to look at the , well , my my inspirations , which was a big collection of lots of different models of remote controls and other things that use a similar sort of thing , including m_p_ three players , uh like you know , hi-fi remotes , not just television and these things . project manager : mm-hmm . mm . user interface : uh having a think about the feature of ea the features of each ones , um what functions we actually need , and then how to group and arrange these on the actual the actual plastic or rubber hand-held piece . uh i 've been especially interested in the ipod style scroll wheel , which well , i could n't find a the picture of the ipod w only linked to a web browser , so i could n't copy and paste it , but it had a similar thing to this thing on the right . it has uh scroll wheels without without a display , but they they scroll like a computer mouse . so i was thinking that uh um a really simple a really simple interface with just a couple of scroll things on it um and then instead of a display the display could appear on the television screen . like i guess an existing sky or cable one does . like , you know , you press enter and it comes up with what 's showing on that channel at the moment , and you can do you can scroll along and it 'll show you what 's on in the next half hour , and you scroll up marketing : user interface : and you can see what 's on the other channels while you 're watching the same channel on the screen . uh but i 'm also equally taken with this chunky plastic kiddie remote , um which is really nice and fun and good to hold and nice , big , easy buttons to press , but still quite simple and quite cost effective . so project manager : user interface : what seems kind of ideal for me would be to just have a fairly simple , uh not fancy but not totally minimalist , i mean just pretty simple plastic , probably , i was thinking , yellow and black , just because that 's the company 's colours , with very very few buttons , but that would correspond to a screen that would appear on the television screen , like , you know , just small along the bottom instead of instead of having the ipod style display screen on the actual remotes , which is far too expensive . and when you 've got a screen sitting there in front of you , you might as well have it appearing uh on the screen in front of you , it does n't obscure much of the actual picture you 're watching . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and so on that you can , just much in the same way as an existing sky remote , scroll along , scroll up and down . industrial designer : yeah , i 'd i 'd certainly support that idea . user interface : and uh and i definitely support uh the use of plastic and or rubber . i mean titanium would be great , but i think it might be a bit too expensive and too kinda spacey . if we 're k trying to keep it colourful and slightly organic , then i think titanium 's too futuristic . industrial designer : it 's difficult to make fancy shapes in it as well , we ca n't for example have a double curved case in titanium unfortunately . user interface : yeah . whereas a plastic 's so cheap and easy and mouldable and everything else . industrial designer : user interface : uh then industrial designer : and the the having the the the screen on the television screen i think is a good idea , 'cause um otherwise we 're we 're putting up the price not only for putting building the lcd in , but for the electronics as well . user interface : and it 's a little bit pointless as well i think . industrial designer : there is that . user interface : like when when when you 've got when you 've got the screen there , it does n't have to be anything fancy , marketing : it 's a duplication . user interface : just a little menu showing yeah , a menu , you go into one menu and then it can have your different options , whether you wan na change the settings or the you know , your information about programme that 's on at the moment . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i do n't think that 's to taxing to uh s engineer . um . but as for actually arranging them let me go back to the to the picture of the kiddie one . and i quite like it , 'cause it 's just smooth and hand-held and it 's got these easily reachable buttons that quite nicely uh spaced out , so something a bit like that with buttons arranged in a kind of circle . up , down , left , right . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : do you want scroll buttons in that as well ? user interface : i i was thinking not actually scroll , like a like mouse scroll , but you know , a i ca n't quite d uh describe it . you see on the one on the right , down at the bottom , is the mouse . yeah , see where the mouse is , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : like this s style thing where you c have up , down , left and right . and enter in the middle , industrial designer : right . user interface : so you pick your menu and then your different options and when when you click on each one , it you can go into a new menu for that . i 'm getting a bit uh specific here . really we 'd have to use something to show you , industrial designer : yeah . i think i think that 's a g nice clean design , user interface : but industrial designer : it 's playing to our strengths which are in push button technology . marketing : to uh m make it . user interface : if i do n't think i can get it up on the screen . ah here we go . right . marketing : oh nice . user interface : well , marketing : um hmm . user interface : the ipod spinning wheel is uh really complicated . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it does scroll , but it is hugely complicated . what else have we got ? marketing : mm . wow . user interface : them , they 're terrible . but they all have this this feature of this uh it 's not quite a scroll wheel , but it 's a kind of selection in this circle , project manager : it 's a selection wheel . user interface : which i think is a really good idea . industrial designer : but we can implement it with simple push buttons , which is much cheaper . user interface : yeah , like up , down , left and right . which is good . and then and then yeah , so i mean either a channel up and down , volume up and down , next appearing programmes up and down , uh and then also when you get into the different menus on the screen , it 's got your things like settings and contrast up and down . project manager : okay . user interface : so all you really need is these four buttons with the enter in the middle . project manager : okay . user interface : and that 's it . industrial designer : in fact user interface : look at look at this one . industrial designer : oh that 's really nice . user interface : almost impossible to misplace or l or lose . project manager : marketing : do you think with um project manager : user interface : might take up your whole living room . marketing : it seems that that uh you guys are quite keen on the plastic , perhaps the something reminiscent of the child 's remote . do you think we could put it in a in a fruit colour ? and have it abstract . you know , user interface : possibly . marketing : we could call like a fruit name , user interface : yeah . marketing : but it would be a little more abstract . industrial designer : mm . we we could actually do it in rubber instead of plastic if you 'd rather if you feel if you like the spongy user interface : that also is possible . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : just marketing : i 'm just just throwing out ideas . project manager : or call it a or call it a banana and have it in yellow . marketing : yeah . i 'm thinking maybe we need to be a little bit more abstract if the design constraints are so project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh just something else i need to bring to your attention is have you have you seen these on a remote ? this is actually the volume up and down , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : but they both say v_ on them , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : which , when you first look at it , you expect that to be the down , because it looks like a downward pointing arrow , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but it 's actually the v_ to indicate that it 's the volume , so uh we do need to avoid little ambiguities like these . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : nice . good point . user interface : but we would n't have a specific volume up and down . if we 're having the scroll wheel , then it 's gon na double up as all the other up and down functions . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : but then , that 's complicated . project manager : i wan na thank you all for all your presentations . we have about ten minutes left , in which time we have to make some decisions on the remote control concepts . um and i think you all have been self-stimulating of working together . um we need to come up with some specifics of the components , um the materials , things like making the decision on the energy um and the case and the interface type things . so let 's mm . right . they want us to decide what form of energy are we going to use , which the choices that we 've discussed were pretty much battery , kinetic or solar . um this is where kate 's expertise comes in , and our decision making will be a little bit guided by kate at this point . industrial designer : project manager : the you were saying that the kinetic would be useful , that is you just have to move it some and you 'd be able to use it um as opposed to a battery that you have to either put it in a recharger or um keep replacing the batteries . um or solar that you 'd have difficulty with it if it 's a dark day , that it 'll die on you , and no way to do it . that 's the day you wan na use the tv . um so what 's our pleasure here , what would be the cost consequences of each of the three ? industrial designer : oh unfortunately i do n't have costing information . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i i in terms of workability , i i think the the two front-runners are the standard battery or the kinetic , project manager : mm 'kay . industrial designer : but i 'm sorry i do n't figures on the difference in cost . project manager : what 's the uh feelings of the group on the kinetic ? marketing : i 've used kinetic in terms of watches and it 's very very uh handy , you do n't even notice um that it 's there . user interface : it sounds great . i 've never come across it before , but it sounds fantastic . sounds like it could be g a really good economical marketing : it 's user interface : it would make the whole thing a lot lighter , more convenient . marketing : mm-hmm . it could tie in with the fanciful design user interface : yeah . marketing : as uh , you know , user interface : 'cause it 's really a quite attractive thought , marketing : throw the banana , you know , just got ta keep it moving . user interface : is n't it ? it 's like yeah , project manager : so the consensus seems to be use the kinetic if it 's at all possible . user interface : a good selling point . but it does depend how much i mean how much it costs and how much more development and research it needs . project manager : it costs . mm . industrial designer : and and how much you do have to keep it moving , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause i 'm conscious that watching tv can be quite a sed sedentary activity . marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . but i could market that as a um as a a i was thinking actually a a cost saver down the road , in terms of battery , you know . user interface : do your exercises while you 're watching the tv . industrial designer : yeah . true , yeah , m more more environmentally friendly . user interface : yeah , that 's what i was thinking as well . marketing : mm-hmm . you know , project manager : yeah . marketing : kind of the project manager : thanks for the reminder for five minutes to finish , thanks . industrial designer : oh right , okay , project manager : um the next thing that they wanted us to do was look at chip on print as a decision . industrial designer : i 'd that that 's something i maybe should have covered . um chip on print is just a manufacturing technique um and i would certainly recommend it , i think , because i 'm not sure i have an alternative . project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : what about the ca industrial designer : i i it it 's just the way that the the the uh th the way it 's ac it 's actually built project manager : yeah . oh , the way we uh-huh . industrial designer : and you you print onto the circuit board like you might print onto paper . project manager : oh , okay . um what about the case ? i think they 're talking there about do we want wood , plastic , titanium or rubber , industrial designer : project manager : and i think we 've discussed not having titanium . one , it 's too expensive , um and second , it wo n't do this double um curves . um we 've sort of eliminated wood . we said plastic or rubber . what 's the pleasure ? industrial designer : well if if sarah 's keen on a spongy feel , the the rubber that we 're talking about is the same as you have in those little stress balls , so it 's marketing : that 's exactly what i was thinking . i 'm sold . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : what about you ? user interface : do you not think it might need like a kind of a hard plastic inner shell with the actual delicate workings inside , and then a kind of spongy yeah , s thick spongy cover , marketing : mm . kind of like an internal egg . project manager : cover . user interface : so it feels like the whole thing 's spongy , but actually you 're not damaging anything by squeezing it . project manager : plastic inside . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because i mean you could just get carried away with the with the tac industrial designer : i 'd i 'd need to talk to manufacturing again about whether that 's actually possible , but i agree , it 's uh sounds like a nice idea if it is . user interface : yeah . well you do get a bit carried away with things that are tactile , you just wan na stroke them and squeeze them , industrial designer : marketing : and with sports on television . project manager : okay . user interface : and marketing : you know . project manager : um the next part they want is the user interface concept . industrial designer : i should i should r project manager : i 'm sorry to push you , but we only have a couple minutes to finish with . marketing : then i 'll just say i support either from a marketing point of view i support either decision that the designers make on that . project manager : okay , and it says interface . what type and what supplements ? user interface : just copy the one on the left . no um a scroll well , like four buttons , up , down , left and right with enter in the middle , that will correspond to a menu on the screen . industrial designer : which i think technically is just push button and uh i 'd certainly support that that user interface : yeah , industrial designer : that brings the cost down quite a lot user interface : i 'd like push buttons with industrial designer : and it 's something that we 're an ex the company 's an expert on . user interface : so push buttons project manager : okay , um that 's that . um this is gon na sound weird , but the next meeting starts in thirty minutes . whew . industrial designer : project manager : and they actually want a look and feel design , user interface design , you can look and see this as well as i can . marketing they want product evaluation . user interface : no , it 's still it 's still plugged in on mine actually . marketing : no we ca n't , actually . project manager : oh . oh my , i 'm sorry . marketing : that 's why i was looking over your shoulder project manager : oh , okay . sorry about that . missed that one . this ought to be fun trying to get this thing to work . ah , ta-da . industrial designer : user interface : now it 's gone again . industrial designer : you know , i think the the company 's s next project should to design a better overhead device that switches immediately . project manager : yes , because i ca n't even see mine . next meeting starts in thirty minutes , user interface : oh yes . project manager : these are the individual actions . yeah , right . um the look and feel design is for kate , uh steph gets the user interface design , you get product evaluation . um the two of you get to play with a pla modelling clay um to do a prototype . user interface : great . project manager : uh and everybody gets individual instructions in the usual way . marketing : sounds good . project manager : anything else we need to do ? user interface : i do n't think so . project manager : go to it . user interface : play-doh . project manager : and that 's the end of this meeting . that 's for her benefit . marketing : that 's really all i got , guys . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the user interfaceof the remote control . </s> industrial designer : okay , what does the interface look like ? um well push button , that 's that 's the one we 're all familiar with . um we can have scroll buttons and the the scroll button can incorporate a push , so you can have it like on a mouse where you can use it to go up and down , change volume or channel or something like that and push to select something . um you can have multiple scroll buttons , um this is maybe getting a little bit complicated , but um it 's it the technology is there . and we can also incorporate an lcd display in the remote , but this will increase the cost . um the electronics that actually makes the device work , we 've basically got three , simple , regular , advanced , and the price goes up as we choose each of this . if we want the nice cheap one , the simple , then we can only have push buttons . all the other fancy interface designs go out the window , i 'm afraid . um pay a little bit more for a regular chip and you can have scroll buttons . if you want the advanced chip it obviously costs more , but it that 's what you need if you want the lcd display . and the manufacturing devision tell me that they have recently developed um sample sensor sample speaker devices . now i do n't know what that is , but i think they think it 's quite important and we might want to incorporate it somewhere . um ou our real expertise is in push buttons , i have to say , but maybe you think that 's old technology . and well i i think we 've got two options . we can either go for a really cheap model , keep all of the costs down , um which means a flat plastic case with an ordinary battery and simple push buttons . or we can have something that looks a bit nicer , i think it , um wo n't necessarily l uh look like a pineapple , but um that may or may not be a good thing . marketing : user interface : industrial designer : sorry . um but it could have an lcd screen and it could have multiple scroll buttons , and it could have the the company 's new development of the um sample sensor and speaker . so , thank you . marketing : that sounds good . any idea you you mentioned that there would be a cost difference . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : um do you have any idea if if this could if the fancy model could be done in twelve euros fifty ? industrial designer : i 'm afraid i do n't have that information available . um manufacturing did n't actually give attach any prices to any of this , i 'm afraid . marketing : hmm . because , you know what , i 'm being quite serious when i say that that um the things i mentioned are hot . but i think the important thing might be to choose one . industrial designer : yeah mm-hmm . marketing : you know , if if what you 're telling me is is um some of these things are n't just f are n't feasible , maybe we could something about naming , we could call it , you know , blackberry . user interface : bear bear in mind it has to be the colours and styles of the company , marketing : that 's uh user interface : so what i had been thinking was something chunky and yellow and plastic with black buttons with a logo on it . industrial designer : banana ? marketing : alright , well let 's see then . user interface : but um i i do n't know how important that is to keep it exactly the colours of the real reaction company . marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's just what i 'd understood we 'd be doing . that 's before i heard about all this hot tips about the future , fruit-wise . marketing : yeah . but yeah , industrial designer : we we could we could do um a double curved rubber one , marketing : i 'm trying to streamline mine a little bit . industrial designer : which would allow um say a banana , but um unfortunately i see from my notes that if we do that , we have to have a push button as the interface , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we ca n't do anything fancier . user interface : shall we wait 'til i 've 'til i 've showed you what well , my extensive presentation on what sort of interfaces are available . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . mm . thank you , kate . project manager : thank you , kate . user interface : you did seem to include just in more detail what i 've got though . so so mine 's a bit pointless . right . industrial designer : user interface : f_n_ and f_ eight , did you say ? project manager : yes . there we go . industrial designer : user interface : i do n't have it on mine though . marketing : oh i think um florence resolved it by industrial designer : i if you do f_ uh f_n_ f_ eight again , it 's it 'll project manager : do it again . marketing : f_ eight again . project manager : keep doing it until you get it in both you get it there , you get it yours without that one , industrial designer : i think it yeah , you you will do an project manager : and then you get it with both . user interface : should i do it again ? project manager : yeah . marketing : maybe . industrial designer : project manager : this time it should come up both . user interface : right then . i do n't actually have a huge amount of different information then what kate says , project manager : okay . user interface : just that my method was to look at the , well , my my inspirations , which was a big collection of lots of different models of remote controls and other things that use a similar sort of thing , including m_p_ three players , uh like you know , hi-fi remotes , not just television and these things . project manager : mm-hmm . mm . user interface : uh having a think about the feature of ea the features of each ones , um what functions we actually need , and then how to group and arrange these on the actual the actual plastic or rubber hand-held piece . uh i 've been especially interested in the ipod style scroll wheel , which well , i could n't find a the picture of the ipod w only linked to a web browser , so i could n't copy and paste it , but it had a similar thing to this thing on the right . it has uh scroll wheels without without a display , but they they scroll like a computer mouse . so i was thinking that uh um a really simple a really simple interface with just a couple of scroll things on it um and then instead of a display the display could appear on the television screen . like i guess an existing sky or cable one does . like , you know , you press enter and it comes up with what 's showing on that channel at the moment , and you can do you can scroll along and it 'll show you what 's on in the next half hour , and you scroll up marketing : user interface : and you can see what 's on the other channels while you 're watching the same channel on the screen . uh but i 'm also equally taken with this chunky plastic kiddie remote , um which is really nice and fun and good to hold and nice , big , easy buttons to press , but still quite simple and quite cost effective . so project manager : user interface : what seems kind of ideal for me would be to just have a fairly simple , uh not fancy but not totally minimalist , i mean just pretty simple plastic , probably , i was thinking , yellow and black , just because that 's the company 's colours , with very very few buttons , but that would correspond to a screen that would appear on the television screen , like , you know , just small along the bottom instead of instead of having the ipod style display screen on the actual remotes , which is far too expensive . and when you 've got a screen sitting there in front of you , you might as well have it appearing uh on the screen in front of you , it does n't obscure much of the actual picture you 're watching . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and so on that you can , just much in the same way as an existing sky remote , scroll along , scroll up and down . industrial designer : yeah , i 'd i 'd certainly support that idea . and the the having the the the screen on the television screen i think is a good idea , 'cause um otherwise we 're we 're putting up the price not only for putting building the lcd in , but for the electronics as well . user interface : and it 's a little bit pointless as well i think . industrial designer : there is that . user interface : like when when when you 've got when you 've got the screen there , it does n't have to be anything fancy , marketing : it 's a duplication . user interface : just a little menu showing yeah , a menu , you go into one menu and then it can have your different options , whether you wan na change the settings or the you know , your information about programme that 's on at the moment . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i do n't think that 's to taxing to uh s engineer . um . but as for actually arranging them let me go back to the to the picture of the kiddie one . and i quite like it , 'cause it 's just smooth and hand-held and it 's got these easily reachable buttons that quite nicely uh spaced out , so something a bit like that with buttons arranged in a kind of circle . up , down , left , right . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : do you want scroll buttons in that as well ? user interface : i i was thinking not actually scroll , like a like mouse scroll , but you know , a i ca n't quite d uh describe it . you see on the one on the right , down at the bottom , is the mouse . yeah , see where the mouse is , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : like this s style thing where you c have up , down , left and right . and enter in the middle , industrial designer : right . user interface : so you pick your menu and then your different options and when when you click on each one , it you can go into a new menu for that . i 'm getting a bit uh specific here . really we 'd have to use something to show you , industrial designer : yeah . i think i think that 's a g nice clean design , user interface : but industrial designer : it 's playing to our strengths which are in push button technology . marketing : to uh m make it . user interface : if i do n't think i can get it up on the screen . ah here we go . right . marketing : oh nice . user interface : well , marketing : um hmm . user interface : the ipod spinning wheel is uh really complicated . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it does scroll , but it is hugely complicated . what else have we got ? marketing : mm . wow . user interface : them , they 're terrible . but they all have this this feature of this uh it 's not quite a scroll wheel , but it 's a kind of selection in this circle , project manager : it 's a selection wheel . user interface : which i think is a really good idea . industrial designer : but we can implement it with simple push buttons , which is much cheaper . user interface : yeah , like up , down , left and right . which is good . and then and then yeah , so i mean either a channel up and down , volume up and down , next appearing programmes up and down , uh and then also when you get into the different menus on the screen , it 's got your things like settings and contrast up and down . project manager : okay . user interface : so all you really need is these four buttons with the enter in the middle . project manager : okay . user interface : and that 's it . industrial designer : in fact user interface : look at look at this one . industrial designer : oh that 's really nice . user interface : almost impossible to misplace or l or lose . project manager : marketing : do you think with um project manager : user interface : might take up your whole living room . project manager : um the next part they want is the user interface concept . industrial designer : i should i should r project manager : i 'm sorry to push you , but we only have a couple minutes to finish with . marketing : then i 'll just say i support either from a marketing point of view i support either decision that the designers make on that . project manager : okay , and it says interface . what type and what supplements ? user interface : just copy the one on the left . no um a scroll well , like four buttons , up , down , left and right with enter in the middle , that will correspond to a menu on the screen . industrial designer : which i think technically is just push button and uh i 'd certainly support that that user interface : yeah , industrial designer : that brings the cost down quite a lot user interface : i 'd like push buttons with industrial designer : and it 's something that we 're an ex the company 's an expert on . </s>
<s> why did user interface disagree with industrial designer when talking about having the screen on the television screen ? </s> user interface : and it 's a little bit pointless as well i think . industrial designer : there is that . user interface : like when when when you 've got when you 've got the screen there , it does n't have to be anything fancy , marketing : it 's a duplication . user interface : just a little menu showing yeah , a menu , you go into one menu and then it can have your different options , whether you wan na change the settings or the you know , your information about programme that 's on at the moment . marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about the design of the remote control when discussing the user interface concept ? </s> user interface : uh having a think about the feature of ea the features of each ones , um what functions we actually need , and then how to group and arrange these on the actual the actual plastic or rubber hand-held piece . uh i 've been especially interested in the ipod style scroll wheel , which well , i could n't find a the picture of the ipod w only linked to a web browser , so i could n't copy and paste it , but it had a similar thing to this thing on the right . it has uh scroll wheels without without a display , but they they scroll like a computer mouse . so i was thinking that uh um a really simple a really simple interface with just a couple of scroll things on it um and then instead of a display the display could appear on the television screen . like i guess an existing sky or cable one does . like , you know , you press enter and it comes up with what 's showing on that channel at the moment , and you can do you can scroll along and it 'll show you what 's on in the next half hour , and you scroll up marketing : user interface : and you can see what 's on the other channels while you 're watching the same channel on the screen . uh but i 'm also equally taken with this chunky plastic kiddie remote , um which is really nice and fun and good to hold and nice , big , easy buttons to press , but still quite simple and quite cost effective . so project manager : user interface : what seems kind of ideal for me would be to just have a fairly simple , uh not fancy but not totally minimalist , i mean just pretty simple plastic , probably , i was thinking , yellow and black , just because that 's the company 's colours , with very very few buttons , but that would correspond to a screen that would appear on the television screen , like , you know , just small along the bottom instead of instead of having the ipod style display screen on the actual remotes , which is far too expensive . and when you 've got a screen sitting there in front of you , you might as well have it appearing uh on the screen in front of you , it does n't obscure much of the actual picture you 're watching . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and so on that you can , just much in the same way as an existing sky remote , scroll along , scroll up and down . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the energy source . </s> industrial designer : you 're gon na be a little disappointed with some of the things i have to tell you , but i 'm afraid this is the real world . so um i 've been looking at the the basics of how these devices actually have to work in order to operate , and i 've had some discussions with the ma manufacturing division , who have told me what 's actually available , you know , what the current state of the art in components is , and some of the exciting new things they 've got , but i 'm not sure that it 's quite what you want um . now this is n't a very good overhead , but this is just to show you , this is the innards of a remote control um . i really need a pen or something but uh does my mouse work ? no . um oh yeah , can you see my little mouse pointer ? right . this is this is the a a a remote that 's been opened up and that 's the the back of the interface . and this is a push-button one , so you see these little little buttons here , they 're little rubber rubber buttons that go through onto the the board at the back and they push these buttons here . um and we that 's the basic construction that we 've got to got to accommodate . we got to have something that pushes the little buttons that um talk to the chip that encodes the message that sends the the message to the receiver . so um i wan i wan na go through not not just addressing the um uh the the points that you made , sarah , but um doing my presentation in the order i wrote it . so first of all um i wan na talk about what possibilities we 've got for the energy source . marketing : industrial designer : um we can have your bog standard double double a_ batteries in a replaceable um little compartment . we can have a hand sorry user interface : a wind-up . marketing : industrial designer : a wind-up , yeah , which i think is quite an interesting concept for a sorry for a remote control , marketing : project manager : industrial designer : but i it maybe is does n't quite go with the um the fruit and veg . marketing : project manager : alright . industrial designer : um one that one that i think is quite interesting is the kinetic energy source , marketing : project manager : remember , we only have forty minutes industrial designer : where um you you actually get the energy by moving the device , which is quite a ni a nice and neat one . you have to it means that if it 's sitting there for a long time it probably wo n't work , but you have to sort of throw it between your hands every now and then , it 'll work . user interface : industrial designer : or we we had talked about solar power , but i thing that we agreed that that 's not so good in the dark . project manager : i wan na thank you all for all your presentations . we have about ten minutes left , in which time we have to make some decisions on the remote control concepts . um and i think you all have been self-stimulating of working together . um we need to come up with some specifics of the components , um the materials , things like making the decision on the energy um and the case and the interface type things . so let 's mm . right . they want us to decide what form of energy are we going to use , which the choices that we 've discussed were pretty much battery , kinetic or solar . um this is where kate 's expertise comes in , and our decision making will be a little bit guided by kate at this point . industrial designer : project manager : the you were saying that the kinetic would be useful , that is you just have to move it some and you 'd be able to use it um as opposed to a battery that you have to either put it in a recharger or um keep replacing the batteries . um or solar that you 'd have difficulty with it if it 's a dark day , that it 'll die on you , and no way to do it . that 's the day you wan na use the tv . um so what 's our pleasure here , what would be the cost consequences of each of the three ? industrial designer : oh unfortunately i do n't have costing information . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i i in terms of workability , i i think the the two front-runners are the standard battery or the kinetic , project manager : mm 'kay . industrial designer : but i 'm sorry i do n't figures on the difference in cost . project manager : what 's the uh feelings of the group on the kinetic ? marketing : i 've used kinetic in terms of watches and it 's very very uh handy , you do n't even notice um that it 's there . user interface : it sounds great . i 've never come across it before , but it sounds fantastic . sounds like it could be g a really good economical marketing : it 's user interface : it would make the whole thing a lot lighter , more convenient . marketing : mm-hmm . it could tie in with the fanciful design user interface : yeah . marketing : as uh , you know , user interface : 'cause it 's really a quite attractive thought , marketing : throw the banana , you know , just got ta keep it moving . user interface : is n't it ? it 's like yeah , project manager : so the consensus seems to be use the kinetic if it 's at all possible . user interface : a good selling point . but it does depend how much i mean how much it costs and how much more development and research it needs . project manager : it costs . mm . industrial designer : and and how much you do have to keep it moving , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause i 'm conscious that watching tv can be quite a sed sedentary activity . marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . but i could market that as a um as a a i was thinking actually a a cost saver down the road , in terms of battery , you know . user interface : do your exercises while you 're watching the tv . industrial designer : yeah . true , yeah , m more more environmentally friendly . user interface : yeah , that 's what i was thinking as well . marketing : mm-hmm . you know , project manager : yeah . marketing : kind of the project manager : thanks for the reminder for five minutes to finish , thanks . industrial designer : oh right , okay , project manager : um the next thing that they wanted us to do was look at chip on print as a decision . industrial designer : i 'd that that 's something i maybe should have covered . um chip on print is just a manufacturing technique um and i would certainly recommend it , i think , because i 'm not sure i have an alternative . project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : what about the ca industrial designer : i i it it 's just the way that the the the uh th the way it 's ac it 's actually built project manager : yeah . oh , the way we uh-huh . </s>
<s> why did the group suggest using the kinetic as the energy power ? </s> project manager : the you were saying that the kinetic would be useful , that is you just have to move it some and you 'd be able to use it um as opposed to a battery that you have to either put it in a recharger or um keep replacing the batteries . um or solar that you 'd have difficulty with it if it 's a dark day , that it 'll die on you , and no way to do it . that 's the day you wan na use the tv . um so what 's our pleasure here , what would be the cost consequences of each of the three ? industrial designer : oh unfortunately i do n't have costing information . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i i in terms of workability , i i think the the two front-runners are the standard battery or the kinetic , project manager : mm 'kay . industrial designer : but i 'm sorry i do n't figures on the difference in cost . project manager : what 's the uh feelings of the group on the kinetic ? marketing : i 've used kinetic in terms of watches and it 's very very uh handy , you do n't even notice um that it 's there . user interface : it sounds great . i 've never come across it before , but it sounds fantastic . sounds like it could be g a really good economical marketing : it 's user interface : it would make the whole thing a lot lighter , more convenient . marketing : mm-hmm . it could tie in with the fanciful design user interface : yeah . marketing : as uh , you know , user interface : 'cause it 's really a quite attractive thought , marketing : throw the banana , you know , just got ta keep it moving . user interface : is n't it ? it 's like yeah , project manager : so the consensus seems to be use the kinetic if it 's at all possible . user interface : a good selling point . but it does depend how much i mean how much it costs and how much more development and research it needs . project manager : it costs . mm . industrial designer : and and how much you do have to keep it moving , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause i 'm conscious that watching tv can be quite a sed sedentary activity . marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . but i could market that as a um as a a i was thinking actually a a cost saver down the road , in terms of battery , you know . user interface : do your exercises while you 're watching the tv . industrial designer : yeah . true , yeah , m more more environmentally friendly . user interface : yeah , that 's what i was thinking as well . marketing : mm-hmm . you know , project manager : yeah . marketing : kind of the project manager : thanks for the reminder for five minutes to finish , thanks . industrial designer : oh right , okay , project manager : um the next thing that they wanted us to do was look at chip on print as a decision . industrial designer : i 'd that that 's something i maybe should have covered . um chip on print is just a manufacturing technique um and i would certainly recommend it , i think , because i 'm not sure i have an alternative . project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : what about the ca industrial designer : i i it it 's just the way that the the the uh th the way it 's ac it 's actually built project manager : yeah . oh , the way we uh-huh . industrial designer : and you you print onto the circuit board like you might print onto paper . project manager : oh , okay . um what about the case ? i think they 're talking there about do we want wood , plastic , titanium or rubber , industrial designer : </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think about the wind-up when discussing the energy source ? </s> industrial designer : and that 's the the back of the interface . and this is a push-button one , so you see these little little buttons here , they 're little rubber rubber buttons that go through onto the the board at the back and they push these buttons here . um and we that 's the basic construction that we 've got to got to accommodate . we got to have something that pushes the little buttons that um talk to the chip that encodes the message that sends the the message to the receiver . so um i wan i wan na go through not not just addressing the um uh the the points that you made , sarah , but um doing my presentation in the order i wrote it . so first of all um i wan na talk about what possibilities we 've got for the energy source . marketing : industrial designer : um we can have your bog standard double double a_ batteries in a replaceable um little compartment . we can have a hand sorry user interface : a wind-up . marketing : industrial designer : a wind-up , yeah , which i think is quite an interesting concept for a sorry for a remote control , marketing : project manager : industrial designer : but i it maybe is does n't quite go with the um the fruit and veg . marketing : </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor d : ok . so , uh you can fill those out , uh after , actually , so so , i got , uh these results from , uh , stephane . also , um , i think that , uh um we might hear later today , about other results . i think s that , uh , there were some other very good results that we 're gon na wan na compare to . but , r our results from other other places , yeah . phd a : i i 'm sorry ? i did n't professor d : um , i got this from you phd a : yeah . professor d : and then i sent a note to sunil about the cuz he has been running some other systems phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : other than the the icsi ogi one . phd a : oh yeah . professor d : so um , i wan wan na wan na see what that is . but , uh , you know , so we 'll see what it is comparatively later . but it looks like , um phd a : m yeah . professor d : you know most of the time , even i mean even though it 's true that the overall number for danish we did n't improve it if you look at it individually , what it really says is that there 's , um , uh looks like out of the six cases , between the different kinds of , uh , matching conditions out of the six cases , there 's basically , um , a couple where it stays about the same , uh , three where it gets better , and one where it gets worse . phd a : yeah . professor d : uh , go ahead . phd a : y actually , uh , um , for the danish , there 's still some kind of mystery because , um , um , when we use the straight features , we are not able to get these nice number with the icsi ogi one , i mean . we do n't have this ninety - three seventy - eight , we have eight phd e : eighty - nine forty - four . phd a : yeah . uh , so , uh , that 's probably something wrong with the features that we get from ogi . uh , and sunil is working on on trying to to check everything . professor d : oh , and and we have a little time on that and actually so we have a little bit of time on that , actually . phd a : yeah . professor d : we have a day or so , so when when when do you folks leave ? phd a : uh , sunday . professor d : sunday ? so so , uh yeah , until saturday midnight , or something , we have w we we have time , yeah . well , that would be good . that 'd be good . phd a : yeah . professor d : yeah . uh , and , you know , i u when whenever anybody figures it out they should also , for sure , email hynek because hynek will be over there telling people what we did , so he should know . phd a : mmm . yeah . professor d : good , ok . so , um so , we 'll we 'll hold off on that a little bit . i mean , even with these results as they are , it 's it 's it 's really not that bad . but but , uh , um and it looks like the overall result as they are now , even without , you know , any any bugs being fixed is that , uh , on the the other tasks , we had this average of , uh , forty uh nine percent , or so , improvement . and here we have somewhat better than that than the danish , and somewhat worse than that on the german , but i mean , it sounds like , uh , one way or another , the methods that we 're doing can reduce the error rate from from mel ceptrum down by , you know a fourth of them to , uh , a half of them . somewhere in there , depending on the exact case . so so that 's good . i mean , i think that , uh , one of the things that hynek was talking about was understanding what was in the other really good proposals and and trying to see if what should ultimately be proposed is some , uh , combination of things . um , if , uh cuz there 's things that they are doing there that we certainly are not doing . and there 's things that we 're doing that they 're not doing . and and they all seem like good things . phd a : yeah . phd e : mmm , yeah . phd c : how much how much better was the best system than ours ? professor d : so well , we do n't know yet . uh , i mean , first place , there 's still this thing to to work out , and second place second thing is that the only results that we have so far from before were really development set results . phd c : oh , ok . professor d : so , i think in this community that 's of interest . it 's not like everything is being pinned on the evaluation set . but , um , for the development set , our best result was a little bit short of fifty percent . and the best result of any system was about fifty - four , where these numbers are the , uh , relative , uh , reduction in , uh , word error rate . phd c : oh , ok . professor d : and , um , the other systems were , uh , somewhat lower than that . there was actually there was much less of a huge range than there was in aurora one . in aurora one there were there were systems that ba basically did n't improve things . and here the the worst system still reduced the error rate by thirty - three percent , or something , in development set . phd c : oh , wow . professor d : so so , you know , sort of everybody is doing things between , well , roughly a third of the errors , and half the errors being eliminated , uh , and varying on different test sets and so forth . phd c : mm - hmm . professor d : so i think um it 's probably a good time to look at what 's really going on and seeing if there 's a there 's a way to combine the best ideas while at the same time not blowing up the amount of , uh , resources used , cuz that 's that 's critical for this this test . phd c : do we know anything about who who 's was it that had the lowest on the dev set ? professor d : um , uh , the , uh , the there were two systems that were put forth by a combination of of , uh , french telecom and alcatel . and , um they they differed in some respects , but they e em one was called the french telecom alcatel system the other was called the alcatel french telecom system , uh , which is the biggest difference , i think . but but there 're there 're there 're some other differences , too . uh , and and , uh , they both did very well , phd c : uh - huh . professor d : you know ? so , um , my impression is they also did very well on on the the , uh , evaluation set , but , um , i i we have n't seen you 've - you have n't seen any final results for that phd c : and they used the main thing that that they used was spectral subtraction ? professor d : yeah . there is a couple pieces to it . there 's a spectral subtraction style piece it was basically , you know , wiener filtering . and then then there was some p some modification of the cepstral parameters , where they phd a : yeah , actually , something that 's close to cepstral mean subtraction . but , uh , the way the mean is adapted um , it 's signal dependent . i 'm i 'm , uh so , basically , the mean is adapted during speech and not during silence . professor d : yeah . phd a : but it 's very close to to cepstral mean subtraction . professor d : but some people have done exactly that sort of thing , of of and the i mean it 's not to to look in speech only , to try to m to measure these things during speech , phd a : yeah , yeah . professor d : that 's p that 's not that uncommon . but i it it so it looks like they did some some , uh , reasonable things , uh , and they 're not things that we did , precisely . we did unreasonable things , which because we like to try strange things , and and , uh , and our things worked too . and so , um , uh , it 's possible that some combination of these different things that were done would be the best thing to do . but the only caveat to that is that everybody 's being real conscious of how much memory and how much cpu they 're using phd c : mm - hmm . professor d : because these , uh , standards are supposed to go on cell phones with m moderate resources in both respects . phd c : did anybody , uh , do anything with the models as a an experiment ? or professor d : uh , they did n't report it , if they did . phd c : n nobody reported it ? professor d : yeah . i think everybody was focused elsewhere . um , now , one of the things that 's nice about what we did is , we do have a a , uh a filtering , which leads to a a , uh a reduction in the bandwidth in the modulation spectrum , which allows us to downsample . so , uh , as a result of that we have a reduced , um , transmission rate for the bits . phd c : mm - hmm . professor d : that was misreported the first time out . it it said the same amount because for convenience sake in the particular way that this is being tested , uh , they were repeating the packets . so it was they were s they they had twenty - four hundred bits per second , but they were literally creating forty - eight hundred bits per second , um , even though y it was just repeated . phd c : oh . mm - hmm . right . professor d : so , uh , in practice phd c : so you could 've had a repeat count in there or something . professor d : well , n i mean , this was just a ph phoney thing just to to fit into the the software that was testing the errors channel errors and so on . phd c : oh . oh . professor d : so so in reality , if you put this this system in into , uh , the field , it would be twenty - four hundred bits per second , not forty - eight hundred . so , um , so that 's a nice feature of what what we did . um , but , um , well , we still have to see how it all comes out . um , and then there 's the whole standards process , which is another thing altogether . phd c : when is the development set i mean , the , uh , uh , test set results due ? like the day before you leave or something ? professor d : uh , probably the day after they leave , but we 'll have to we 'll have to stop it the day before { comment } we leave . phd a : yeah , yeah . so professor d : i think tha i think the the meeting is on the thirteenth or something . phd a : yeah , this tuesday , yeah . professor d : and , uh , they , uh right . and the the , uh , results are due like the day before the meeting or something . so phd a : yeah , probably , well professor d : i th i think i i think they are , phd a : yeah , well professor d : yeah . so um , since we have a bit farther to travel than some of the others , uh , we 'll have to get done a little quicker . but , um , i mean , it 's just tracing down these bugs . i mean , just exactly this sort of thing of , you know , why why these features seem to be behaving differently , uh , in california than in oregon . phd c : hmm . professor d : might have something to do with electricity shortage . uh , we did n't we did n't have enough electrons here and uh , but , um uh , i think , you know , the main reason for having i mean , it only takes w to run the the two test sets in just in computer time is just a day or so , right ? phd a : yeah , it 's very short interval . professor d : yeah . so , i think the who the whole reason for having as long as we have , which was like a week and a half , is is because of bugs like that . so huh so , we 're gon na end up with these same kind of sheets that have the the percentages and so on just for the phd a : yeah , so there are two more columns in the sheets , professor d : oh , i guess it 's the same sheets , phd a : two . yeah , it 's the same sheets , professor d : yeah , yeah phd a : yeah . professor d : just with the missing columns filled in . phd a : yeah . professor d : yeah . well , that 'll be good . so , i 'll dis i 'll disregard these numbers . that 's that 's that 's good . phd a : so , hynek will try to push for trying to combine , uh , different things ? or hmm ? professor d : uh , well that 's um yeah i mean , i think the question is `` is there is there some advantage ? `` i mean , you could just take the best system and say that 's the standard . but the thing is that if different systems are getting at good things , um , a again within the constraint of the resources , if there 's something simple that you can do now for instance , uh , it 's , i think , very reasonable to have a standard for the terminal 's side and then for the server 's side say , `` here 's a number of things that could be done . `` so , um , everything that we did could probably just be added on to what alcatel did , and i it 'd probably work pretty well with them , too . so , um , uh , that 's one one aspect of it . and then on the terminal 's side , i do n't know how much , um , memory and and cpu it takes , but it seems like the filtering uh , i mean , the vad stuff they both had , right ? and , um , so and they both had some kind of on - line normalization , right ? phd a : uh , yeah . professor d : of sorts , yeah ? so so , it seems like the main different there is the is the , uh , filtering . and the filtering i think if you can should n't take a lot of memory to do that uh , and i also would n't think the cpu , uh , would be much either for that part . so , if you can if you can add those in um then , uh , you can cut the data rate in half . phd a : yeah . professor d : so it seems like the right thing to do is to on the on the terminal 's side , take what they did , if it if it does seem to generalize well to german and danish , uh , take what they did add in a filter , and add in some stuff on the server 's side and and and that 's probably a reasonable standard . um uh phd a : they are working on this already ? because yeah , su - sunil told me that he was trying already to put some kind of , uh , filtering in the france telecom . professor d : yeah , so that 's that 's that 's what that would be ideal would be is that they could , you know , they could actually show that , in fact , a combination of some sort , uh , would work even better than what what any of the systems had . and , um , then it would it would , uh be something to to discuss in the meeting . but , uh , not clear what will go on . um , i mean , on the one hand , um , sometimes people are just anxious to get a standard out there . i mean , you can always have another standard after that , but this process has gone on for a while on already and and people might just wan na pick something and say , `` ok , this is it . `` and then , that 's a standard . uh , standards are always optional . it 's just that , uh , if you disobey them , then you risk not being able to sell your product , or uh um and people often work on new standards while an old standard is in place and so on . so it 's not final even if they declared a standard . the other hand , they might just say they just do n't know enough yet to to declare a standard . so you you you will be you will become experts on this and know more far more than me about the tha this particular standards process once you you go to this meeting . so , be interested in hearing . so , uh , i 'd be , uh , interested in hearing , uh , your thoughts now i mean you 're almost done . i mean , you 're done in the sense that , um , you may be able to get some new features from sunil , and we 'll re - run it . uh , but other than that , you 're you 're basically done , right ? so , uh , i 'm interested in hearing hearing your thoughts about where you think we should go from this . phd a : yeah . professor d : i mean , we tried a lot of things in a hurry , and , uh , if we can back off from this now and sort of take our time with something , and not have doing things quickly be quite so much the constraint , what what you think would be the best thing to do . phd a : uh , well hmm well , first , uh , to really have a look at at the speech from these databases because , well , we tried several thing , but we did not really look at what what 's happening , and where is the noise , and professor d : it 's a novel idea . look at the data . ok . phd a : yeah . professor d : or more generally , i guess , what what is causing the degradation . phd a : yeah , yeah . actually , there is one thing that well um , generally we we think that most of the errors are within phoneme classes , and so i think it could be interesting to to see if it i do n't think it 's still true when we add noise , and so we have i i guess the confusion ma the confusion matrices are very different when when we have noise , and when it 's clean speech . and probably , there is much more between classes errors for noisy speech . professor d : mm - hmm . phd a : and so , um yeah , so perhaps we could have a a large gain , eh , just by looking at improving the , uh , recognition , not of phonemes , but of phoneme classes , simply . professor d : mm - hmm . phd a : and which is a s a s a simpler problem , perhaps , but which is perhaps important for noisy speech . professor d : the other thing that strikes me , just looking at these numbers is , just taking the best cases , i mean , some of these , of course , even with all of our our wonderful processing , still are horrible kinds of numbers . but just take the best case , the well - matched uh , german case after er well - matched danish after we phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : the kind of numbers we 're getting are about eight or nine uh p percent error per digit . phd a : mm - hmm . yeah . professor d : this is obviously not usable , right ? phd a : sure . professor d : i mean , if you have ten digits for a phone number { comment } i mean , every now and then you 'll get it right . i mean , it 's it 's , uh , um so , i mean , the other thing is that , uh and and a and and also , um part of what 's nice about this is that this is , uh , um a realistic almost realistic database . i mean , it 's still not people who are really trying to accomplish something , but but , uh , within the artificial setup , it is n't noise artificially added , you know , simulated , uh , additive noise . phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : it 's real noise condition . and , um , the the training the training , i guess , is always done on the close talking phd a : no , actually actually the well - matched condition is still quite di still quite difficult . i mean , it 's they have all these data from the close mike and from the distant mike , from different driving condition , open window , closed window , professor d : yeah . phd a : and they take all of this and they take seventy percent , i think , for training and thirty percent for testing . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : so , training is done on different conditions and different microphones , and testing also is done on different microphone and conditions . so , probably if we only take the close microphones , i guess the results should be much much better than this . professor d : i see . oh , ok , that explains it partially . wha - what about i in so the the phd a : yeah , so there is this , the mismatched is , um the same kind of thing , professor d : go ahead . phd a : but the driving conditions , i mean the speed and the kind of road , is different for training and testing , is that right ? phd e : yeah . phd a : and the last condition is close microphone for training and distant for testing . yeah . professor d : uh , ok , phd a : so s so professor d : so i see . so , yeah , so the high so the right so the highly mismatched case is in some sense a good model for what we 've been , you know , typically talking about when we talk about additive noise in and so and i i k it does correspond to a realistic situation in the sense that , um , people might really be trying to , uh , call out telephone numbers or some or something like that , in in their cars phd a : yeah . professor d : and they 're trying to connect to something . phd a : actually , yeah , it 's very close to clean speech training because , well , because the close microphone and noisy speech testing , professor d : yeah . yeah . phd a : yeah . mmm . professor d : yeah . and the well - matched condition is what you might imagine that you might be able to approach , if you know that this is the application . you 're gon na record a bunch on people in cars and so forth , and do these training . and then , uh , when y you sell it to somebody , they will be a different person with a different car , and so on . so it 's this is a an optim somewhat optimistic view on it , uh , so , you know , the real thing is somewhere in between the two . phd a : yeah . professor d : uh , uh , but phd a : but the i mean , the th th professor d : even the optimistic one is phd a : it does n't work . professor d : yeah , phd a : it professor d : right . right , it does n't work . so , in a way , that 's , you know , that 's sort of the dominant thing is that even , say on the development set stuff that we saw , the , uh , the numbers that , uh , that alcatel was getting when choosing out the best single numbers , it was just you know , it was n't good enough for for a a for a real system . phd a : mmm . mm - hmm . professor d : you you you , um so , uh , we still have stuff to do . phd a : yeah . professor d : uh , and , uh i do n't know so , looking at the data , where , you know what 's the what 's what 's th what 's characteristic i e yeah , i think that 's that 's a good thing . does a any you have any thoughts about what else y you 're thinking that you did n't get to that you would like to do if you had more time ? uh phd e : oh , f a lot of thing . because we trying a lot of s thing , and we does n't work , we remove these . maybe we trying again with the articulatory feature . i do n't know exactly because we tried we some one experiment that does n't work . um , forgot it , something i do n't know exactly professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : because , tsk { comment } maybe do better some step the general , eh , diagram . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : i do n't know exactly s to think what we can improve . professor d : yeah , cuz a lot of time it 's true , there were a lot of times when we 've tried something and it did n't work right away , even though we had an intuition that there should be something there . and so then we would just stop it . um and , uh , one of the things i do n't remember the details on , but i remember at some point , when you were working with a second stream , and you tried a low - pass filtering to cepstrum , in some case you got phd e : msg yeah . professor d : well , but it was { comment } an msg - like thing , but it was n't msg , right ? uh , you y i think in some case you got some little improvement , but it was , you know , sort of a small improvement , and it was a a big added complication , so you dropped it . but , um , that was just sort of one try , right ? you just took one filter , threw it there , phd a : yeah , professor d : right ? and it seems to me that , um , if that is an important idea , which , you know , might be , that one could work at it for a while , as you 're saying . and , uh uh , and you had , you know , you had the multi - band things also , and , you know , there was issue of that . phd a : yeah , professor d : um , barry 's going to be , uh , continuing working on multi - band things as well . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : we were just talking about , um , some , uh , some work that we 're interested in . kind of inspired by the stuff by larry saul with the , uh uh , learning articulatory feature in i think , in the case of his paper with sonorance based on , uh , multi - band information where you have a a combination of gradient learning an and , uh , em . phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : um , and um , so , i think that , you know , this is a , uh this is a neat data set . um , and then , uh , as we mentioned before , we also have the the new , uh , digit set coming up from recordings in this room . so , there 's a lot of things to work with . um and , uh what i like about it , in a way , is that , uh , the results are still so terrible . uh uh i mean , they 're much better than they were , you know . we 're talking about thirty to sixty percent , uh , error rate reduction . that 's that 's really great stuff to to do that in relatively short time . but even after that it 's still , you know , so poor that that , uh , no one could really use it . so , um i think that 's great that because and y also because again , it 's not something sometimes we 've gotten terrible results by taking some data , and artificially , you know , convolving it with some room response , or something we take a very uh , at one point , uh , brian and i went downstairs into the the basement where it was it was in a hallway where it was very reverberant and we we made some recordings there . and then we we , uh uh , made a simulation of the of the room acoustics there and and applied it to other things , phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : and uh but it was all pretty artificial , and and , you know , how often would you really try to have your most crucial conversations in this very reverberant hallway ? um so , uh this is what 's nice about the aurora data and the data here , is that is that it 's sort of a realistic room situation uh , acoustics acoustic situation , both terms in noise and reflections , and so on and n n and , uh , uh , with something that 's still relatively realistic , it 's still very very hard to do very well . so yeah . phd a : yeah , so d well actually , this is tha that 's why we well , it 's a different kind of data . we 're not we 're not used to work with this kind of data . that 's why we should have a loo more closer look at what 's going on . professor d : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : um yeah . so this would be the first thing , and then , of course , try to well , kind of debug what was wrong , eh , when we do aurora test on the msg particularly , and on the multi - band . professor d : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . no , i i think there 's lots of lots of good things to do with this . so um so let 's i guess you were gon na say something else ? oh , ok . what do you think ? anything phd c : about other experiments ? uh , now , i 'm interested in , um , uh looking at the experiments where you use , um uh , data from multiple languages to train the neural net . and i do n't know how far , or if you guys even had a chance to try that , but that would be some it 'd be interesting to me . phd a : yeah , but again , it 's the kind of of thing that , uh , we were thin thinking thinking that it would work , but it did n't work . and , eh , so there is kind of of not a bug , but something wrong in what we are doing , perhaps . professor d : yeah . phd c : right . right . phd a : uh , something wrong , perhaps in the just in the the fact that the labels are phd c : right . mm - hmm . phd a : what worked best is the hand - labeled data . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : um uh , so , yeah . i do n't know if we can get some hand - labeled data from other languages . phd c : yeah . phd a : it 's not so easy to find . phd c : right . phd a : but that would be something interesting t to to see . phd c : yeah , yeah . professor d : yeah . also , uh , i mean , there was just the whole notion of having multiple nets that were trained on different data . so one form of different data was is from different languages , but the other well , i in fact , uh , m in those experiments it was n't so much combining multiple nets , it was a single net that had different phd a : yeah . professor d : so , first thing is would it be better if they were multiple nets , for some reason ? second thing is , never mind the different languages , just having acoustic conditions rather than training them all up in one , would it be helpful to have different ones ? so , um that was a question that was kind of raised by mike shire 's thesis , and on in that case in terms of reverberation . right ? that that sometimes it might be better to do that . but , um , i do n't think we know for sure . so , um right . so , next week , we , uh , wo n't meet because you 'll be in europe . whe - when are you two getting back ? phd e : um , i 'm phd a : you on friday or s on saturday or ? phd e : sunday phd a : s oh yeah , sunday , yeah . phd e : because it 's it 's less expensive , the price the price the ticket . professor d : yeah , that 's right . you 've got ta s have a saturday overnight , right ? phd a : i 'll be back on tuesday . professor d : tuesday . phd c : where where 's the meeting ? professor d : uh , amsterdam , i think , yeah ? phd a : yeah , amsterdam . phd c : uh - huh . professor d : yeah . yeah , yeah . yep . um so , we 'll skip next week , and we 'll meet two weeks from now . and , uh , i guess the main topic will be , uh , you telling us what happened . phd a : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor d : uh , so yeah , well , if we do n't have an anything else to discuss , we should , uh , turn off the machine and then say the real nasty things . phd c : should we do digits first ? phd a : yeah . grad b : oh , yeah , digits . professor d : oh yeah , digits ! yeah . good point . yeah , good thinking . why do n't you go ahead . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on the performance of the deployed model </s> professor d : ok . so , uh you can fill those out , uh after , actually , so so , i got , uh these results from , uh , stephane . also , um , i think that , uh um we might hear later today , about other results . i think s that , uh , there were some other very good results that we 're gon na wan na compare to . but , r our results from other other places , yeah . phd a : i i 'm sorry ? i did n't professor d : um , i got this from you phd a : yeah . professor d : and then i sent a note to sunil about the cuz he has been running some other systems phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : other than the the icsi ogi one . phd a : oh yeah . professor d : so um , i wan wan na wan na see what that is . but , uh , you know , so we 'll see what it is comparatively later . but it looks like , um phd a : m yeah . professor d : you know most of the time , even i mean even though it 's true that the overall number for danish we did n't improve it if you look at it individually , what it really says is that there 's , um , uh looks like out of the six cases , between the different kinds of , uh , matching conditions out of the six cases , there 's basically , um , a couple where it stays about the same , uh , three where it gets better , and one where it gets worse . phd a : yeah . professor d : uh , go ahead . phd a : y actually , uh , um , for the danish , there 's still some kind of mystery because , um , um , when we use the straight features , we are not able to get these nice number with the icsi ogi one , i mean . we do n't have this ninety - three seventy - eight , we have eight phd e : eighty - nine forty - four . phd a : yeah . uh , so , uh , that 's probably something wrong with the features that we get from ogi . uh , and sunil is working on on trying to to check everything . professor d : oh , and and we have a little time on that and actually so we have a little bit of time on that , actually . phd a : yeah . professor d : we have a day or so , so when when when do you folks leave ? phd a : uh , sunday . professor d : sunday ? so so , uh yeah , until saturday midnight , or something , we have w we we have time , yeah . well , that would be good . that 'd be good . phd a : yeah . professor d : yeah . uh , and , you know , i u when whenever anybody figures it out they should also , for sure , email hynek because hynek will be over there telling people what we did , so he should know . phd a : mmm . yeah . professor d : good , ok . so , um so , we 'll we 'll hold off on that a little bit . i mean , even with these results as they are , it 's it 's it 's really not that bad . but but , uh , um and it looks like the overall result as they are now , even without , you know , any any bugs being fixed is that , uh , on the the other tasks , we had this average of , uh , forty uh nine percent , or so , improvement . and here we have somewhat better than that than the danish , and somewhat worse than that on the german , but i mean , it sounds like , uh , one way or another , the methods that we 're doing can reduce the error rate from from mel ceptrum down by , you know a fourth of them to , uh , a half of them . somewhere in there , depending on the exact case . so so that 's good . i mean , i think that , uh , one of the things that hynek was talking about was understanding what was in the other really good proposals and and trying to see if what should ultimately be proposed is some , uh , combination of things . um , if , uh cuz there 's things that they are doing there that we certainly are not doing . and there 's things that we 're doing that they 're not doing . and and they all seem like good things . phd a : yeah . phd e : mmm , yeah . phd c : how much how much better was the best system than ours ? professor d : so well , we do n't know yet . uh , i mean , first place , there 's still this thing to to work out , and second place second thing is that the only results that we have so far from before were really development set results . phd c : oh , ok . professor d : so , i think in this community that 's of interest . it 's not like everything is being pinned on the evaluation set . but , um , for the development set , our best result was a little bit short of fifty percent . and the best result of any system was about fifty - four , where these numbers are the , uh , relative , uh , reduction in , uh , word error rate . phd c : oh , ok . professor d : and , um , the other systems were , uh , somewhat lower than that . there was actually there was much less of a huge range than there was in aurora one . in aurora one there were there were systems that ba basically did n't improve things . and here the the worst system still reduced the error rate by thirty - three percent , or something , in development set . phd c : oh , wow . professor d : so so , you know , sort of everybody is doing things between , well , roughly a third of the errors , and half the errors being eliminated , uh , and varying on different test sets and so forth . phd c : mm - hmm . professor d : so i think um it 's probably a good time to look at what 's really going on and seeing if there 's a there 's a way to combine the best ideas while at the same time not blowing up the amount of , uh , resources used , cuz that 's that 's critical for this this test . phd c : do we know anything about who who 's was it that had the lowest on the dev set ? professor d : um , uh , the , uh , the there were two systems that were put forth by a combination of of , uh , french telecom and alcatel . and , um they they differed in some respects , but they e em one was called the french telecom alcatel system the other was called the alcatel french telecom system , uh , which is the biggest difference , i think . but but there 're there 're there 're some other differences , too . uh , and and , uh , they both did very well , phd c : uh - huh . professor d : you know ? so , um , my impression is they also did very well on on the the , uh , evaluation set , but , um , i i we have n't seen you 've - you have n't seen any final results for that phd c : and they used the main thing that that they used was spectral subtraction ? professor d : yeah . there is a couple pieces to it . there 's a spectral subtraction style piece it was basically , you know , wiener filtering . and then then there was some p some modification of the cepstral parameters , where they phd a : yeah , actually , something that 's close to cepstral mean subtraction . but , uh , the way the mean is adapted um , it 's signal dependent . i 'm i 'm , uh so , basically , the mean is adapted during speech and not during silence . professor d : yeah . phd a : but it 's very close to to cepstral mean subtraction . professor d : but some people have done exactly that sort of thing , of of and the i mean it 's not to to look in speech only , to try to m to measure these things during speech , phd a : yeah , yeah . professor d : that 's p that 's not that uncommon . but i it it so it looks like they did some some , uh , reasonable things , uh , and they 're not things that we did , precisely . we did unreasonable things , which because we like to try strange things , and and , uh , and our things worked too . and so , um , uh , it 's possible that some combination of these different things that were done would be the best thing to do . but the only caveat to that is that everybody 's being real conscious of how much memory and how much cpu they 're using phd c : mm - hmm . professor d : because these , uh , standards are supposed to go on cell phones with m moderate resources in both respects . phd c : did anybody , uh , do anything with the models as a an experiment ? or professor d : uh , they did n't report it , if they did . phd c : n nobody reported it ? professor d : yeah . i think everybody was focused elsewhere . um , now , one of the things that 's nice about what we did is , we do have a a , uh a filtering , which leads to a a , uh a reduction in the bandwidth in the modulation spectrum , which allows us to downsample . so , uh , as a result of that we have a reduced , um , transmission rate for the bits . phd c : mm - hmm . professor d : that was misreported the first time out . it it said the same amount because for convenience sake in the particular way that this is being tested , uh , they were repeating the packets . so it was they were s they they had twenty - four hundred bits per second , but they were literally creating forty - eight hundred bits per second , um , even though y it was just repeated . phd c : oh . mm - hmm . right . professor d : so , uh , in practice phd c : so you could 've had a repeat count in there or something . professor d : well , n i mean , this was just a ph phoney thing just to to fit into the the software that was testing the errors channel errors and so on . phd c : oh . oh . professor d : so so in reality , if you put this this system in into , uh , the field , it would be twenty - four hundred bits per second , not forty - eight hundred . so , um , so that 's a nice feature of what what we did . um , but , um , well , we still have to see how it all comes out . um , and then there 's the whole standards process , which is another thing altogether . </s>
<s> what was the range of errors in the models ? </s> phd c : oh , ok . professor d : and , um , the other systems were , uh , somewhat lower than that . there was actually there was much less of a huge range than there was in aurora one . in aurora one there were there were systems that ba basically did n't improve things . and here the the worst system still reduced the error rate by thirty - three percent , or something , in development set . phd c : oh , wow . professor d : so so , you know , sort of everybody is doing things between , well , roughly a third of the errors , and half the errors being eliminated , uh , and varying on different test sets and so forth . phd c : mm - hmm . professor d : so i think um it 's probably a good time to look at what 's really going on and seeing if there 's a there 's a way to combine the best ideas while at the same time not blowing up the amount of , uh , resources used , cuz that 's that 's critical for this this test . phd c : do we know anything about who who 's was it that had the lowest on the dev set ? professor d : um , uh , the , uh , the there were two systems that were put forth by a combination of of , uh , french telecom and alcatel . and , um they they differed in some respects , but they e em one was called the french telecom alcatel system the other was called the alcatel french telecom system , uh , which is the biggest difference , i think . but but there 're there 're there 're some other differences , too . uh , and and , uh , they both did very well , </s>
<s> what did the professor think about danish and german models ? </s> professor d : you know most of the time , even i mean even though it 's true that the overall number for danish we did n't improve it if you look at it individually , what it really says is that there 's , um , uh looks like out of the six cases , between the different kinds of , uh , matching conditions out of the six cases , there 's basically , um , a couple where it stays about the same , uh , three where it gets better , and one where it gets worse . phd a : yeah . professor d : uh , go ahead . phd a : y actually , uh , um , for the danish , there 's still some kind of mystery because , um , um , when we use the straight features , we are not able to get these nice number with the icsi ogi one , i mean . we do n't have this ninety - three seventy - eight , we have eight phd e : eighty - nine forty - four . phd a : yeah . uh , so , uh , that 's probably something wrong with the features that we get from ogi . uh , and sunil is working on on trying to to check everything . professor d : oh , and and we have a little time on that and actually so we have a little bit of time on that , actually . phd a : yeah . professor d : we have a day or so , so when when when do you folks leave ? phd a : uh , sunday . professor d : sunday ? so so , uh yeah , until saturday midnight , or something , we have w we we have time , yeah . well , that would be good . that 'd be good . phd a : yeah . professor d : yeah . uh , and , you know , i u when whenever anybody figures it out they should also , for sure , email hynek because hynek will be over there telling people what we did , so he should know . phd a : mmm . yeah . professor d : good , ok . so , um so , we 'll we 'll hold off on that a little bit . i mean , even with these results as they are , it 's it 's it 's really not that bad . but but , uh , um and it looks like the overall result as they are now , even without , you know , any any bugs being fixed is that , uh , on the the other tasks , we had this average of , uh , forty uh nine percent , or so , improvement . and here we have somewhat better than that than the danish , and somewhat worse than that on the german , but i mean , it sounds like , uh , one way or another , the methods that we 're doing can reduce the error rate from from mel ceptrum down by , you know a fourth of them to , uh , a half of them . somewhere in there , depending on the exact case . so so that 's good . i mean , i think that , uh , one of the things that hynek was talking about was understanding what was in the other really good proposals and and trying to see if what should ultimately be proposed is some , uh , combination of things . um , if , uh cuz there 's things that they are doing there that we certainly are not doing . and there 's things that we 're doing that they 're not doing . and and they all seem like good things . </s>
<s> summarize discussion on the pragmatic overview of the project </s> phd a : it professor d : right . right , it does n't work . so , in a way , that 's , you know , that 's sort of the dominant thing is that even , say on the development set stuff that we saw , the , uh , the numbers that , uh , that alcatel was getting when choosing out the best single numbers , it was just you know , it was n't good enough for for a a for a real system . phd a : mmm . mm - hmm . professor d : you you you , um so , uh , we still have stuff to do . phd a : yeah . professor d : uh , and , uh i do n't know so , looking at the data , where , you know what 's the what 's what 's th what 's characteristic i e yeah , i think that 's that 's a good thing . does a any you have any thoughts about what else y you 're thinking that you did n't get to that you would like to do if you had more time ? uh phd e : oh , f a lot of thing . because we trying a lot of s thing , and we does n't work , we remove these . maybe we trying again with the articulatory feature . i do n't know exactly because we tried we some one experiment that does n't work . um , forgot it , something i do n't know exactly professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : because , tsk { comment } maybe do better some step the general , eh , diagram . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : i do n't know exactly s to think what we can improve . professor d : yeah , cuz a lot of time it 's true , there were a lot of times when we 've tried something and it did n't work right away , even though we had an intuition that there should be something there . and so then we would just stop it . um and , uh , one of the things i do n't remember the details on , but i remember at some point , when you were working with a second stream , and you tried a low - pass filtering to cepstrum , in some case you got phd e : msg yeah . professor d : well , but it was { comment } an msg - like thing , but it was n't msg , right ? uh , you y i think in some case you got some little improvement , but it was , you know , sort of a small improvement , and it was a a big added complication , so you dropped it . but , um , that was just sort of one try , right ? you just took one filter , threw it there , phd a : yeah , professor d : right ? and it seems to me that , um , if that is an important idea , which , you know , might be , that one could work at it for a while , as you 're saying . and , uh uh , and you had , you know , you had the multi - band things also , and , you know , there was issue of that . phd a : yeah , professor d : um , barry 's going to be , uh , continuing working on multi - band things as well . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : we were just talking about , um , some , uh , some work that we 're interested in . kind of inspired by the stuff by larry saul with the , uh uh , learning articulatory feature in i think , in the case of his paper with sonorance based on , uh , multi - band information where you have a a combination of gradient learning an and , uh , em . phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : um , and um , so , i think that , you know , this is a , uh this is a neat data set . um , and then , uh , as we mentioned before , we also have the the new , uh , digit set coming up from recordings in this room . so , there 's a lot of things to work with . um and , uh what i like about it , in a way , is that , uh , the results are still so terrible . uh uh i mean , they 're much better than they were , you know . we 're talking about thirty to sixty percent , uh , error rate reduction . that 's that 's really great stuff to to do that in relatively short time . but even after that it 's still , you know , so poor that that , uh , no one could really use it . so , um i think that 's great that because and y also because again , it 's not something sometimes we 've gotten terrible results by taking some data , and artificially , you know , convolving it with some room response , or something we take a very uh , at one point , uh , brian and i went downstairs into the the basement where it was it was in a hallway where it was very reverberant and we we made some recordings there . and then we we , uh uh , made a simulation of the of the room acoustics there and and applied it to other things , phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : and uh but it was all pretty artificial , and and , you know , how often would you really try to have your most crucial conversations in this very reverberant hallway ? um so , uh this is what 's nice about the aurora data and the data here , is that is that it 's sort of a realistic room situation uh , acoustics acoustic situation , both terms in noise and reflections , and so on and n n and , uh , uh , with something that 's still relatively realistic , it 's still very very hard to do very well . so yeah . phd a : yeah , so d well actually , this is tha that 's why we well , it 's a different kind of data . we 're not we 're not used to work with this kind of data . that 's why we should have a loo more closer look at what 's going on . professor d : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : um yeah . so this would be the first thing , and then , of course , try to well , kind of debug what was wrong , eh , when we do aurora test on the msg particularly , and on the multi - band . professor d : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . no , i i think there 's lots of lots of good things to do with this . so um so let 's i guess you were gon na say something else ? oh , ok . what do you think ? anything phd c : about other experiments ? uh , now , i 'm interested in , um , uh looking at the experiments where you use , um uh , data from multiple languages to train the neural net . and i do n't know how far , or if you guys even had a chance to try that , but that would be some it 'd be interesting to me . phd a : yeah , but again , it 's the kind of of thing that , uh , we were thin thinking thinking that it would work , but it did n't work . and , eh , so there is kind of of not a bug , but something wrong in what we are doing , perhaps . professor d : yeah . phd c : right . right . phd a : uh , something wrong , perhaps in the just in the the fact that the labels are phd c : right . mm - hmm . phd a : what worked best is the hand - labeled data . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : um uh , so , yeah . i do n't know if we can get some hand - labeled data from other languages . phd c : yeah . phd a : it 's not so easy to find . phd c : right . phd a : but that would be something interesting t to to see . phd c : yeah , yeah . professor d : yeah . also , uh , i mean , there was just the whole notion of having multiple nets that were trained on different data . so one form of different data was is from different languages , but the other well , i in fact , uh , m in those experiments it was n't so much combining multiple nets , it was a single net that had different phd a : yeah . professor d : so , first thing is would it be better if they were multiple nets , for some reason ? second thing is , never mind the different languages , just having acoustic conditions rather than training them all up in one , would it be helpful to have different ones ? so , um that was a question that was kind of raised by mike shire 's thesis , and on in that case in terms of reverberation . right ? that that sometimes it might be better to do that . but , um , i do n't think we know for sure . so , um right . so , next week , we , uh , wo n't meet because you 'll be in europe . whe - when are you two getting back ? phd e : um , i 'm phd a : you on friday or s on saturday or ? phd e : sunday phd a : s oh yeah , sunday , yeah . phd e : because it 's it 's less expensive , the price the price the ticket . professor d : yeah , that 's right . you 've got ta s have a saturday overnight , right ? phd a : i 'll be back on tuesday . professor d : tuesday . phd c : where where 's the meeting ? professor d : uh , amsterdam , i think , yeah ? phd a : yeah , amsterdam . phd c : uh - huh . professor d : yeah . yeah , yeah . yep . um so , we 'll skip next week , and we 'll meet two weeks from now . and , uh , i guess the main topic will be , uh , you telling us what happened . phd a : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor d : uh , so yeah , well , if we do n't have an anything else to discuss , we should , uh , turn off the machine and then say the real nasty things . phd c : should we do digits first ? phd a : yeah . grad b : oh , yeah , digits . professor d : oh yeah , digits ! yeah . good point . yeah , good thinking . why do n't you go ahead . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about the pragmatic overview of the project ? </s> professor d : right . right , it does n't work . so , in a way , that 's , you know , that 's sort of the dominant thing is that even , say on the development set stuff that we saw , the , uh , the numbers that , uh , that alcatel was getting when choosing out the best single numbers , it was just you know , it was n't good enough for for a a for a real system . phd a : mmm . mm - hmm . professor d : you you you , um so , uh , we still have stuff to do . phd a : yeah . professor d : uh , and , uh i do n't know so , looking at the data , where , you know what 's the what 's what 's th what 's characteristic i e yeah , i think that 's that 's a good thing . does a any you have any thoughts about what else y you 're thinking that you did n't get to that you would like to do if you had more time ? uh phd e : oh , f a lot of thing . because we trying a lot of s thing , and we does n't work , we remove these . maybe we trying again with the articulatory feature . i do n't know exactly because we tried we some one experiment that does n't work . um , forgot it , something i do n't know exactly professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : because , tsk { comment } maybe do better some step the general , eh , diagram . professor d : mm - hmm . phd e : i do n't know exactly s to think what we can improve . professor d : yeah , cuz a lot of time it 's true , there were a lot of times when we 've tried something and it did n't work right away , even though we had an intuition that there should be something there . and so then we would just stop it . um and , uh , one of the things i do n't remember the details on , but i remember at some point , when you were working with a second stream , and you tried a low - pass filtering to cepstrum , in some case you got phd e : msg yeah . professor d : well , but it was { comment } an msg - like thing , but it was n't msg , right ? uh , you y i think in some case you got some little improvement , but it was , you know , sort of a small improvement , and it was a a big added complication , so you dropped it . but , um , that was just sort of one try , right ? you just took one filter , threw it there , phd a : yeah , professor d : right ? and it seems to me that , um , if that is an important idea , which , you know , might be , that one could work at it for a while , as you 're saying . and , uh uh , and you had , you know , you had the multi - band things also , and , you know , there was issue of that . phd a : yeah , professor d : um , barry 's going to be , uh , continuing working on multi - band things as well . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : we were just talking about , um , some , uh , some work that we 're interested in . kind of inspired by the stuff by larry saul with the , uh uh , learning articulatory feature in i think , in the case of his paper with sonorance based on , uh , multi - band information where you have a a combination of gradient learning an and , uh , em . phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : um , and um , so , i think that , you know , this is a , uh this is a neat data set . um , and then , uh , as we mentioned before , we also have the the new , uh , digit set coming up from recordings in this room . so , there 's a lot of things to work with . um and , uh what i like about it , in a way , is that , uh , the results are still so terrible . uh uh i mean , they 're much better than they were , you know . we 're talking about thirty to sixty percent , uh , error rate reduction . that 's that 's really great stuff to to do that in relatively short time . but even after that it 's still , you know , so poor that that , uh , no one could really use it . so , um i think that 's great that because and y also because again , it 's not something sometimes we 've gotten terrible results by taking some data , and artificially , you know , convolving it with some room response , or something we take a very uh , at one point , uh , brian and i went downstairs into the the basement where it was it was in a hallway where it was very reverberant and we we made some recordings there . and then we we , uh uh , made a simulation of the of the room acoustics there and and applied it to other things , phd a : mm - hmm . professor d : and uh but it was all pretty artificial , and and , you know , how often would you really try to have your most crucial conversations in this very reverberant hallway ? um so , uh this is what 's nice about the aurora data and the data here , is that is that it 's sort of a realistic room situation uh , acoustics acoustic situation , both terms in noise and reflections , and so on and n n and , uh , uh , with something that 's still relatively realistic , it 's still very very hard to do very well . so yeah . phd a : yeah , so d well actually , this is tha that 's why we well , it 's a different kind of data . we 're not we 're not used to work with this kind of data . that 's why we should have a loo more closer look at what 's going on . </s>
<s> what did phd c and the professor discuss about multiple languages ? </s> phd c : about other experiments ? uh , now , i 'm interested in , um , uh looking at the experiments where you use , um uh , data from multiple languages to train the neural net . and i do n't know how far , or if you guys even had a chance to try that , but that would be some it 'd be interesting to me . phd a : yeah , but again , it 's the kind of of thing that , uh , we were thin thinking thinking that it would work , but it did n't work . and , eh , so there is kind of of not a bug , but something wrong in what we are doing , perhaps . professor d : yeah . phd c : right . right . phd a : uh , something wrong , perhaps in the just in the the fact that the labels are phd c : right . mm - hmm . phd a : what worked best is the hand - labeled data . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : um uh , so , yeah . i do n't know if we can get some hand - labeled data from other languages . phd c : yeah . phd a : it 's not so easy to find . phd c : right . phd a : but that would be something interesting t to to see . phd c : yeah , yeah . professor d : yeah . also , uh , i mean , there was just the whole notion of having multiple nets that were trained on different data . so one form of different data was is from different languages , but the other well , i in fact , uh , m in those experiments it was n't so much combining multiple nets , it was a single net that had different phd a : yeah . professor d : so , first thing is would it be better if they were multiple nets , for some reason ? second thing is , never mind the different languages , just having acoustic conditions rather than training them all up in one , would it be helpful to have different ones ? so , um that was a question that was kind of raised by mike shire 's thesis , and on in that case in terms of reverberation . right ? that that sometimes it might be better to do that . but , um , i do n't think we know for sure . so , um right . so , next week , we , uh , wo n't meet because you 'll be in europe . whe - when are you two getting back ? </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd f : and we 're on . professor d : ok . might wan na close the door so that uh , stephane will phd f : i 'll get it . hey dave ? could you go ahead and turn on , uh , stephane 's grad c : mm - hmm . professor d : so that 's the virtual stephane over there . professor g : do you use a pc for recording ? or phd f : uh , yeah , a linux box . yeah . it 's got , uh , like sixteen channels going into it . professor g : uh - huh . uh - huh . the quality is quite good ? or ? phd f : mm - hmm . yeah , so far , it 's been pretty good . professor g : mm - hmm . professor d : yeah . so , uh , yeah the suggestion was to have these guys start to phd f : ok . why do n't you go ahead , dave ? grad c : ok . um , so , yeah , the this past week i 've been main mainly occupied with , um , getting some results , u from the sri system trained on this short hub - five training set for the mean subtraction method . and , um , i ran some tests last night . but , um , c the results are suspicious . um , it 's , um , cuz they 're the baseline results are worse than , um , andreas than results andreas got previously . and it could have something to do with , um phd f : that 's on digits ? grad c : that 's on digits . it c it it could h it could have something to do with , um , downsampling . that 's that 's worth looking into . um , d and , um , ap ap apart from that , i guess the the main thing i have t ta i have to talk is , um , where i 'm planning to go over the next week . um . so i 've been working on integrating this mean subtraction approach into the smartkom system . and there 's this question of , well , so , um , in my tests before with htk i found it worked it worked the best with about twelve seconds of data used to estimate the mean , but , we 'll often have less { comment } in the smartkom system . um . so i think we 'll use as much data as we have at a particular time , and we 'll we 'll concatenate utterances together , um , to get as much data as we possibly can from the user . but , um , there 's a question of how to set up the models . so um , we could train the models . if we think twelve seconds is ideal we could train the models using twelve seconds to calculate the mean , to mean subtract the training data . or we could , um , use some other amount . so like i did an experiment where i , um , was using six seconds in test , um , but , for i tried twelve seconds in train . and i tried , um , um , the same in train i 'm a i tried six seconds in train . and six seconds in train was about point three percent better . um , and um , it 's not clear to me yet whether that 's something significant . so i wan na do some tests and , um , actually make some plots of , um for a particular amount of data and test what happens if you vary the amount of data in train . phd f : mm - hmm . professor d : uh , guenter , i do n't know if you t followed this stuff but this is , uh , a uh , uh , long - term long - term window f f yeah . yeah , he you talked about it . professor g : yeah , we we spoke about it already , professor d : oh , ok . so you know what he 's doing . professor g : yeah . professor d : alright . grad c : y s so i was i actually ran the experiments mostly and i i was i was hoping to have the plots with me today . i just did n't get to it . but , um yeah , i wou i would be curious about people 's feedback on this cuz i 'm @ @ { comment } i p i think there are some i think it 's it 's kind of like a a bit of a tricky engineering problem . i 'm trying to figure out what 's the optimal way to set this up . so , um , i 'll try to make the plots and then put some postscript up on my on my web page . and i 'll mention it in my status report if people wan na take a look . professor d : you could clarify something for me . you 're saying point three percent , you take a point three percent hit , when the training and testing links are do n't match or something ? phd e : hello . professor d : is that what it is ? grad c : w well , it c professor d : or ? grad c : i i do n't think it it 's just for any mismatch you take a hit . professor d : yeah . grad c : i in some cases it might be u better to have a mismatch . like i think i saw something like like if you only have two seconds in test , or , um , maybe it was something like four seconds , you actually do a little better if you , um , train on six seconds than if you train on four seconds . professor d : yeah . right . grad c : um , but the case , uh with the point three percent hit was using six seconds in test , um , comparing train on twelve seconds { comment } versus train on six seconds . professor d : and which was worse ? grad c : the train on twelve seconds . professor d : ok . but point three percent , uh , w from what to what ? that 's point three percent grad c : on the the the accuracies w went from it was something vaguely like ninety - five point six accuracy , um , improved to ninety - five point nine wh when i professor d : so four point four to four point one . so yeah . so about a about an eight percent , uh , seven or eight percent relative ? uh , yeah . well , i think in a p you know , if if you were going for an evaluation system you 'd care . but if you were doing a live system that people were actually using nobody would notice . it 's uh , i think the thing is to get something that 's practical , that that you could really use . grad c : huh . that 's that 's interesting . alright , the e uh , i see your point . i guess i was thinking of it as , um , an interesting research problem . the how to g i was thinking that for the asru paper we could have a section saying , `` for smartkom , we we d in we tried this approach in , uh , interactive system `` , which i do n't think has been done before . professor d : yeah . mm - hmm . grad c : and and then there was two research questions from that . professor d : mm - hmm . grad c : and one is the k does it still work if you just use the past history ? professor d : mm - hmm . grad c : alright , and the other was this question of , um what i was just talking about now . so i guess that 's why i thought it was interesting . professor d : i mean , a short - time fft short - time cepstrum calculation , uh , mean u mean calculation work that people have in commercial systems , they do this all the time . they the they calculate it from previous utterances and then use it , you know . grad c : yeah , um . professor d : but but , uh , as you say , there has n't been that much with this long long - time , uh , spectra work . grad c : oh , o oh , ok . so that 's that 's that 's standard . um professor d : yeah . pretty common . yeah . um , but , u uh , yes . no , it is interesting . and the other thing is , i mean , there 's two sides to these really small , uh , gradations in performance . um , i mean , on the one hand in a practical system if something is , uh , four point four percent error , four point one percent error , people wo n't really tell be able to tell the difference . on the other hand , when you 're doing , uh , research , you may , eh you might find that the way that you build up a change from a ninety - five percent accurate system to a ninety - eight percent accurate system is through ten or twelve little things that you do that each are point three percent . so so the they they it 's i do n't mean to say that they 're they 're irrelevant . uh , they are relevant . but , um , i for a demo , you wo n't see it . grad c : mm - hmm . right . ok . professor d : yeah . grad c : and , um , let 's l let 's see . um , ok . and then there 's um , another thing i wan na start looking at , um , wi is , um , the choice of the analysis window length . so i 've just been using two seconds just because that 's what carlos did before . uh , i wrote to him asking about he chose the two seconds . and it seemed like he chose it a bit informally . so , um , with the with the htk set - up i should be able to do some experiments , on just varying that length , say between one and three seconds , in a few different reverberation conditions , um , say this room and also a few of the artificial impulse responses we have for reverberation , just , um , making some plots and seeing how they look . and , um , so , with the the sampling rate i was using , one second or two seconds or four seconds is at a power of two um , number of samples and , um , i 'll i 'll jus f for the ones in between i guess i 'll just zero - pad . professor d : mm - hmm . i guess one thing that might also be an issue , uh , cuz part of what you 're doing is you 're getting a a spectrum over a bunch of different kinds of speech sounds . um , and so it might matter how fast someone was talking for instance . you know , if you if if if there 's a lot of phones in one second maybe you 'll get a a really good sampling of all these different things , and and , uh , on the other hand if someone 's talking slowly maybe you 'd need more . so i do n't know if you have some samples of faster or slower speech but it might make a difference . i do n't know . grad c : uh , yeah , i do n't i do n't think the ti - digits data that i have , um , i is would be appropriate for that . professor d : yeah , probably not . yeah . grad c : but what do you what about if i w i fed it through some kind of , um , speech processing algorithm that changed the speech rate ? professor d : yeah , but then you 'll have the degradation of of , uh , whatever you do uh , added onto that . but maybe . yeah , maybe if you get something that sounds that that 's does a pretty job at that . grad c : yeah . well , uh , just if you think it 's worth looking into . professor d : you could imagine that . grad c : i mean , it it is getting a little away from reverberation . professor d : um , yeah . it 's just that you 're making a choice uh , i was thinking more from the system aspect , if you 're making a choice for smartkom , that that that it might be that it 's it c the optimal number could be different , depending on grad c : yeah . right . professor d : could be . i do n't know . grad c : and and th the third thing , um , uh , is , um , barry explained lda filtering to me yesterday . and so , um , mike shire in his thesis um , did a a series of experiments , um , training lda filters in d on different conditions . and you were interested in having me repeat this for for this mean subtraction approach ? is is that right ? or for these long analysis windows , i guess , is the right way to put it . professor d : i guess , the the the issue i was the general issue i was bringing up was that if you 're have a moving moving window , uh , a wa a a set of weights times things that , uh , move along , shift along in time , that you have in fact a linear time invariant filter . and you just happened to have picked a particular one by setting all the weights to be equal . and so the issue is what are some other filters that you could use , uh , in that sense of `` filter `` ? grad c : mm - hmm . professor d : and , um , as i was saying , i think the simplest thing to do is not to train anything , but just to do some sort of , uh , uh , hamming or hanning , uh , kind of window , kind of thing , grad c : right . mm - hmm . professor d : just sort of to de - emphasize the jarring . so i think that would sort of be the first thing to do . but then , yeah , the lda i uh , is interesting because it would sort of say well , suppose you actually trained this up to do the best you could by some criterion , what would the filter look like then ? grad c : uh - huh . professor d : uh , and , um , that 's sort of what we 're doing in this aur - aurora stuff . and , uh , it 's still not clear to me in the long run whether the best thing to do would be to do that or to have some stylized version of the filter that looks like these things you 've trained up , because you always have the problem that it 's trained up for one condition and it is n't quite right for another . so . uh that 's that 's why that 's why rasta filter has actually ended up lasting a long time , people still using it quite a bit , because y you do n't change it . so does n't get any worse . uh , anyway . grad c : o ok . so , um , a actually i was just thinking about what i was asking about earlier , wi which is about having less than say twelve seconds in the smartkom system to do the mean subtraction . you said in systems where you use cepstral mean subtraction , they concatenate utterances and , do you know how they address this issue of , um , testing versus training ? can professor d : go ahead . professor g : i think what they do is they do it always on - line , i mean , that you just take what you have from the past , that you calculate the mean of this and subtract the mean . grad c : ok . um professor g : and then you can yeah , you you can increase your window whi while you get while you are getting more samples . grad c : ok , um , and , um , so so in tha in that case , wh what do they do when they 're t um , performing the cepstral mean subtraction on the training data ? so because you 'd have hours and hours of training data . so do they cut it off and start over ? at intervals ? or ? professor g : so do you have uh , you you mean you have files which are hours of hours long ? or ? grad c : oh , well , no . i guess not . but professor g : yeah . i mean , usually you have in the training set you have similar conditions , i mean , file lengths are , i guess the same order or in the same size as for test data , or are n't they ? grad c : ok . but it 's ok . so if someone 's interacting with the system , though , uh , morgan uh , morgan said that you would tend to , um , chain utterances together um , r professor d : well , i think what i was s i thought what i was saying was that , um , at any given point you are gon na start off with what you had from before . from and so if you 're splitting things up into utterances so , for instance , in a dialogue system , { comment } where you 're gon na be asking , uh , you know , th for some information , there 's some initial th something . and , you know , the first time out you you might have some general average . but you you d you do n't have very much information yet . but at after they 've given one utterance you 've got something . you can compute your mean cepstra from that , grad c : mm - hmm . professor d : and then can use it for the next thing that they say , uh , so that , you know , the performance should be better that second time . um , and i think the heuristics of exactly how people handle that and how they handle their training i 'm sure vary from place to place . but i think the ideally , it seems to me anyway , that you you would wan na do the same thing in training as you do in test . but that 's that 's just , uh , a prejudice . and i think anybody working on this with some particular task would experiment . grad c : right . i g i guess the question i had was , um , amount of data e u was the amount of data that you 'd give it to , um update this estimate . because say you if you have say five thousand utterances in your training set , um , and you you keep the mean from the last utterance , by the time it gets to the five thousandth utterance professor d : no , but those are all different people with different i mean , i in y so for instance , in in the in a telephone task , these are different phone calls . so you do n't wan na @ @ { comment } chain it together from a from a different phone call . grad c : ok , so so so they would g s professor d : so it 's within speaker , within phone call , professor g : yeah . professor d : if it 's a dialogue system , it 's within whatever this characteristic you 're trying to get rid of is expected to be consistent over , grad c : r and it professor d : right ? grad c : right . ok , so you 'd you and so in training you would start over at at every new phone call or at every new speaker . yeah , professor d : yeah . yeah . now , you know , maybe you 'd use something from the others just because at the beginning of a call you do n't know anything , and so you might have some kind of general thing that 's your best guess to start with . but so , s i i you know , a lot of these things are proprietary so we 're doing a little bit of guesswork here . i mean , what do comp what do people do who really face these problems in the field ? well , they have companies and they do n't tell other people exactly what they do . grad c : r right . professor d : but but i mean , when you the the hints that you get from what they when they talk about it are that they do they all do something like this . grad c : right , ok . i see . bec - because i so this smartkom task first off , it 's this tv and movie information system . professor d : yeah , but you might have somebody who 's using it grad c : and yeah . professor d : and then later you might have somebody else who 's using it . grad c : yeah . right . right . i i see . professor d : and so you 'd wan na set some grad c : i was i was about to say . so if if you ask it `` what what movies are on tv tonight ? `` , professor d : yeah . yeah . grad c : if i look at my wristwatch when i say that it 's about two seconds . the way i currently have the mean subtraction , um , set up , the the analysis window is two seconds . professor d : yeah . grad c : so what you just said , about what do you start with , raises a question of what do i start with then ? professor d : mm - hmm . grad c : i guess it because professor d : well , w ok , so in that situation , though , th maybe what 's a little different there , is i think you 're talking about there 's only one it it it also depends we 're getting a little off track here . grad c : oh , right . professor d : r but but but uh , there 's been some discussion about whether the work we 're doing in that project is gon na be for the kiosk or for the mobile or for both . and i think for this kind of discussion it matters . if it 's in the kiosk , then the physical situation is the same . it 's gon na you know , the exact interaction of the microphone 's gon na differ depending on the person and so forth . but at least the basic acoustics are gon na be the same . so f if it 's really in one kiosk , then i think that you could just chain together and and you know , as much as much speech as possible to because what you 're really trying to get at is the is the reverberation characteristic . grad c : yeah . professor d : but in in the case of the mobile , uh , { comment } presumably the acoustic 's changing all over the place . grad c : right . professor d : and in that case you probably do n't wan na have it be endless because you wan na have some sort of it 's it 's not a question of how long do you think it 's you can get an approximation to a stationary something , given that it 's not really stationary . grad c : right . right . and i i g i guess i s just started thinking of another question , which is , for for the very first frame , w what what do i do if i 'm if i take if i use that frame to calculate the mean , then i 'm just gon na get n nothing . professor d : mm - hmm . right . grad c : so i should probably have some kind of default mean for the first f couple of frames ? professor d : yeah . yeah . yeah . or subtract nothing . i mean , it 's grad c : or subtract nothing . and and that 's that 's i guess that 's something that 's p people have figured out how to deal with in cepstral mean subtraction as well ? professor d : yeah , yeah . yeah , people do something . they they , uh , they have some , um , uh , in in cepstral mean subtraction , for short - term window analysis windows , as is usually done , you 're trying to get rid of some very general characteristic . and so , uh , if you have any other information about what a general kind of characteristic would be , then you you can do it there . phd f : you can also you can also reflect the data . so you take , uh you know , i 'm not sure how many frames you need . grad c : uh - huh . phd f : but you take that many from the front and flip it around to a as the negative value . professor d : yeah , that 's yeah . phd f : so you can always professor d : the other thing is that and and i i remember b b n doing this , is that if you have a multi - pass system , um , if the first pass ta it takes most of the computation , the second and the third pass could be very , very quick , just looking at a relatively small n small , uh , space of hypotheses . grad c : uh - huh . professor d : then you can do your first pass without any subtraction at all . and then your second pass , uh , uh , eliminates those most of those hypotheses by , uh by having an improved improved version o of the analysis . grad c : ok . ok . ok . so that was all i had , for now . professor d : yeah . phd f : do you wan na go , barry ? grad a : yeah , ok . um , so for the past , uh , week an or two , i 've been just writing my , uh , formal thesis proposal . um , so i 'm taking this qualifier exam that 's coming up in two weeks . and i i finish writing a proposal and submit it to the committee . um . and uh , should i should i explain , uh , more about what what i 'm proposing to do , and s and stuff ? professor d : yes , briefly . phd f : yeah briefly . grad a : ok . um , so briefly , i 'm proposing to do a n a new p approach to speech recognition using um , a combination of , uh , multi - band ideas and ideas , um , { comment } about the uh , acoustic phonec phonetic approach to speech recognition . um , so i will be using these graphical models that um , that implement the multi - band approach to recognize a set of intermediate categories that might involve , uh , things like phonetic features or other other f feature things that are more closely related to the acoustic signal itself . um , and the hope in all of this is that by going multi - band and by going into these , um intermediate classifications , that we can get a system that 's more robust to to unseen noises , and situations like that . um , and so , some of the research issues involved in this are , um , { comment } one , what kind of intermediate categories do we need to classify ? um , another one is um , what what other types of structures in these multi - band graphical models should we consider in order to um , combine evidence from the sub - bands ? and , uh , the third one is how do we how do we merge all the , uh , information from the individual uh , multi - band classifiers to come up with word word recognition or or phone recognition things . um , so basically that 's that 's what i 've been doing . and , phd f : so you 've got two weeks , huh ? grad a : i got two weeks to brush up on d um , presentation stuff and , um , professor d : oh , i thought you were finishing your thesis in two weeks . grad a : but . oh , that too . professor d : yeah . grad a : yeah . phd f : are you gon na do any dry runs for your thing , or are you just gon na grad a : yes . i , um i 'm i 'm gon na do some . would you be interested ? to help out ? phd f : sure . sure . grad a : thanks . yeah . phd f : is that it ? grad a : that 's it . phd f : hhh . ok . uh . hhh . let 's see . so we 've got forty minutes left , and it seems like there 's a lot of material . an - any suggestions about where we where we should go next ? phd b : mmm , @ @ . phd f : uh . do you wan na go , sunil ? maybe we 'll just start with you . phd b : yeah . but i actually stuck most of this in our m last meeting with guenter . um , but i 'll just um , so the last week , uh , i showed some results with only speechdat - car which was like some fifty - six percent . and , uh , i did n't h i mean , i i found that the results i mean , i was n't getting that r results on the ti - digit . so i was like looking into `` why , what is wrong with the ti - digits ? `` . why why i was not getting it . and i found that , the noise estimation is a reason for the ti - digits to perform worse than the baseline . so , uh , i actually , picked th i mean , the first thing i did was i just scaled the noise estimate by a factor which is less than one to see if that because i found there are a lot of zeros in the spectrogram for the ti - digits when i used this approach . so the first thing i did was i just scaled the noise estimate . and i found so the the results that i 've shown here are the complete results using the new well , the n the new technique is nothing but the noise estimate scaled by a factor of point five . so it 's just an ad - hoc i mean , some intermediate result , because it 's not optimized for anything . so the results the trend the only trend i could see from those results was like the the p the current noise estimation or the , uh , noise composition scheme is working good for like the car noise type of thing . because i 've the only only p very good result in the ti - digits is the noise car noise condition for their test - a , which is like the best i could see that uh , for any non - stationary noise like `` babble `` or `` subway `` or any `` street `` , some `` restaurant `` noise , it 's like it 's not performing w very well . so , the so that that 's the first thing i c uh , i could make out from this stuff . and professor g : yeah , i think what is important to see is that there is a big difference between the training modes . phd b : yeah . professor g : uh - huh . if you have clean training , you get also a fifty percent improvement . phd b : yeah . professor g : but if you have muddy condition training you get only twenty percent . phd b : yeah . yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : uh , and in that twenty percent @ @ it 's very inconsistent across different noise conditions . professor g : mm - hmm . mmm . phd b : so i have like a forty - five percent for `` car noise `` and then there 's a minus five percent for the `` babble `` , and there 's this thirty - three for the `` station `` . and so it 's it 's not it 's not actually very consistent across . so . the only correlation between the speechdat - car and this performance is the c stationarity of the noise that is there in these conditions and the speechdat - car . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : and , uh so so the overall result is like in the last page , which is like forty - seven , which is still very imbalanced because there are like fifty - six percent on the speechdat - car and thirty - five percent on the ti - digits . and uh , ps the fifty - six percent is like comparable to what the french telecom gets , but the thirty - five percent is way off . professor d : i 'm sort of confused but this i 'm looking on the second page , phd b : oh , yep . professor d : and it says `` fifty percent `` looking in the lower right - hand corner , `` fifty percent relative performance `` . professor g : for the clean training . professor d : is that professor g : u and if you if you look professor d : is that fifty percent improvement ? phd b : yeah . for that 's for the clean training and the noisy testing for the ti - digits . professor g : yeah . professor d : so it 's improvement over the baseline mel cepstrum ? phd b : yeah . yeah . professor d : but the baseline mel cepstrum under those training does n't do as well i i 'm i 'm trying to understand why it 's it 's eighty percent that 's an accuracy number , i guess , phd b : yeah , yeah , yeah . professor d : right ? so that 's not as good as the one up above . but the fifty is better than the one up above , phd b : yeah . professor d : so i 'm confused . phd b : uh , actually the noise compensation whatever , uh , we are put in it works very well for the high mismatch condition . i mean , it 's consistent in the speechdat - car and in the clean training also it gives it but this fifty percent is is that the the high mismatch performance equivalent to the high mismatch performance in the speech . phd f : so n s so since the high mismatch performance is much worse to begin with , it 's easier to get a better relative improvement . phd b : yeah . yeah . i do . yeah , yeah . so by putting this noise phd e : yeah . yeah , if we look at the figures on the right , we see that the reference system is very bad . phd b : yeah . the reference drops like a very fast professor d : oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh . phd e : like for clean clean training condition . professor d : i see . phd b : yeah . professor d : i see . this is this is ti digits { comment } we 're looking at ? phd b : yeah . yeah . oh professor d : this whole page is ti - digits phd b : oh . yeah . professor d : or this is ? phd b : it 's not written anywhere . yeah , it 's ti - digits . the first r spreadsheet is ti - digits . professor d : mmm . how does clean training do for the , uh , `` car `` phd b : the `` car `` ? professor d : stuff ? phd b : oh . still it still , uh that that 's still consistent . i mean , i get the best performance in the case of `` car `` , which is the third column in the a condition . professor d : no . i mean , this is added noise . i mean , this is ti - digits . i 'm sorry . i meant in in the in the , uh , multi - language , uh , uh , finnish and phd b : uh professor g : this is next next page . phd b : that 's the next next spreadsheet , is so that is the performance for italian , finnish and spanish . professor d : `` training condition `` oh , right . so `` clean `` corresponds to `` high mismatch `` . phd b : yeah . professor d : and `` increase `` , that 's increase e professor g : improvement . phd b : improvement . that 's `` percentage increase `` is the percentage improvement over the baseline . professor g : yeah . it 's it 's a phd b : so that 's professor d : which means decrease in word error rate ? phd b : yeah . professor d : ok , so `` percentage increase `` means decrease ? phd b : yeah , yeah . professor g : yeah . the the w there was a very long discussion about this on on the on the , uh , amsterdam meeting . professor d : yeah . professor g : how to how to calculate it then . phd b : yeah . there 's there 's a professor g : i i i guess you are using finally this the scheme which they phd b : which is there in the spreadsheet . i 'm not changing anything in there . professor d : alright . phd b : so . uh , yeah . so all the hi h m numbers are w very good , in the sense , they are better than what the french telecom gets . so . but the the only number that 's still i mean , which stephane also got in his result was that medium mismatch of the finnish , which is very which is a very strange situation where we used the we changed the proto for initializing the hmm i mean , this this is basically because it gets stuck in some local minimum in the training . that seventy - five point seven nine in the finnish mismatch which is that the eleven point nine six what we see . professor d : uh - huh . phd b : yeah . professor d : so we have to jiggle it somehow ? phd b : yeah so we start with that different proto and it becomes eighty - eight , which is like some fifty percent improvement . professor d : s wait a minute . start with a different what ? phd b : different prototype , which is like a different initialization for the , uh , s transition probabilities . it 's just that right now , the initialization is to stay more in the current state , which is point four point six , right ? yeah . phd e : yeah . phd b : and if it changes to point five point five , which is equal @ @ for transition and self loop where it becomes eighty - eight percent . phd f : well , but that involves mucking with the back - end , phd b : yeah . we ca n't do it . phd f : which is not allowed . phd b : yeah . phd f : yeah . professor g : i mean , it uh , like , i i i it is well known , this this medium match condition of the finnish data has some strange effects . phd b : very s phd e : yeah . phd b : it has a very few at uh , actually , c uh , tran i mean , words also . professor g : i mean , that is yeah , phd b : it 's a very , very small set , actually . professor g : that too . yeah . uh - huh . phd b : so there is professor g : there is a l a there is a lot of uh , there are a lot of utterances with music in with music in the background . phd b : yeah . yeah , yeah , yeah . yeah . professor d : uh - huh . phd b : yeah . it has some music also . i mean , very horrible music like like i know . professor d : so maybe for that one you need a much smarter vad ? mmm , phd b : uh professor d : if it 's music . phd b : so , that that 's the that 's about the results . and , uh , the summary is like ok . so there are the other thing what i tried was , which i explained in the last meeting , is using the channel zero for , uh , for both dropping and estimating the noise . and that 's like just to f n get a feel of how good it is . i guess the fifty - six percent improvement in the speechdat - car becomes like sixty - seven percent . like ten percent better . but that 's that 's not a that 's a cheating experiment . so . that 's just so , m w professor g : but the but the , uh , forty - seven point nine percent which you have now , that 's already a remarkable improvement in comparison to the first proposal . phd b : yeah . so we had forty - four percent in the first proposal . yeah . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : we have f a big im so the major improvement that we got was in all the high mismatch cases , because all those numbers were in sixties and seventies because we never had any noise compensations . so that 's where the biggest improvement came up . not much in the well match and the medium match and ti - digits also right now . so this is still at three or four percent improvement over the first proposal . professor g : mmm . mmm . professor d : yeah , so that 's good . phd b : yeah . so . professor d : then if we can improve the noise estimation , then it should get better . professor g : yeah , i i started thinking about also i mean yeah , uh , i discovered the same problem when i started working on uh , on this aurora task almost two years ago , that you have the problem with this mulit a at the beginning we had only this multi condition training of the ti - digits . phd b : yeah . professor g : and , uh , i i found the same problem . just taking um , what we were used to u use , i mean , uh , some type of spectral subtraction , { comment } y you get even worse results than the basis phd b : yeah . yeah , professor g : and uh phd b : yeah . professor g : i i tried to find an explanation for it , so phd b : so . yes . stephane also has the same experience of using the spectral subtraction right ? phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . so here here i mean , i found that it 's if i changed the noise estimate i could get an improvement . phd e : yeah . phd b : so that 's so it 's something which i can actually pursue , is the noise estimate . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : and professor g : yeah , i think what you do is in when when you have the the this multi - condition training mode , um then you have then you can train models for the speech , for the words , as well as for the pauses where you really have all information about the noise available . phd b : yeah . professor g : and it was surprising at the beginning it was not surprising to me that you get really the best results on doing it this way , i mean , in comparison to any type of training on clean data and any type of processing . but it was so , u u it it seems to be the best what wh wh what what we can do in this moment is multi - condition training . and every when we now start introducing some some noise reduction technique we we introduce also somehow artificial distortions . phd b : yeah . professor g : and these artificial distortions uh , i have the feeling that they are the reason why why we have the problems in this multi - condition training . that means the h m ms we trained , they are they are based on gaussians , phd b : yeah . professor g : and on modeling gaussians . and if you can i move a little bit with this ? yeah . and if we introduce now this this u spectral subtraction , or wiener filtering stuff so , usually what you have is maybe , um i 'm i 'm showing now an envelope um maybe you 'll f for this time . so usually you have maybe in clean condition you have something which looks like this . and if it is noisy it is somewhere here . and then you try to subtract it or wiener filter or whatever . and what you get is you have always these problems , that you have this these these these zeros in there . phd b : yeah . professor g : and you have to do something if you get these negative values . i mean , this is your noise estimate and you somehow subtract it or do whatever . uh , and then you have and then i think what you do is you introduce some some artificial distribution in this uh in in the models . i mean , i you you train it also this way but , i somehow there is u u there is no longer a a gaussian distribution . it is somehow a strange distribution which we introduce with these artificial distortions . and and i was thinking that that might be the reason why you get these problems in the especially in the multi - condition training mode . phd b : yeah , yeah . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : th - that 's true . yeah the c the models are not complex enough to absorb that additional variability that you 're introducing . phd f : thanks adam . professor g : yeah . yes . phd b : well , that 's yeah . so phd e : i also have the feeling that um , the reason ye why it does n't work is yeah , that the models are much are t um , not complex enough . because i actually i als always had a good experience with spectral subtraction , just a straight spectral subtraction algorithm when i was using neural networks , big neural networks , which maybe are more able to model strange distributions and professor g : mm - hmm . phd e : but yeah . then i tried the same exactly the same spectral subtraction algorithm on these aurora tasks and it simply does n't work . it 's even it , uh , hurts even . professor d : we probably should at some point here try the tandem the the the system - two kind of stuff with this , with the spectral subtraction for that reason . cuz again , it should do a transformation to a domain where it maybe looks more gaussian . professor g : mm - hmm . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : hmm . yeah , y i i was whe w w just yesterday when i was thinking about it um w what what we could try to do , or do about it i mean , if you if you get at this in this situation that you get this this negative values and you simply set it to zero or to a constant or whatever if we if we would use there a somehow , um a random generator which which has a certain distribution , u not a certain { comment } yeah , a special distribution we should see we we have to think about it . phd b : it 's professor g : and that we , so , introduce again some natural behavior in this trajectory . professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : mm - hmm . very different from speech . still , i mean , it should n't confuse the professor g : yeah , i mean , similar to what what you see really u in in the real um noisy situation . phd b : ok . mm - hmm . professor g : or i in the clean situation . but but somehow a a natural distribution . professor d : but is n't that s again sort of the idea of the additive thing , if it as as we had in the j stuff ? i mean , basically if if you have random data , um , in in the time domain , then when you look at the s spectrum it 's gon na be pretty flat . and and , professor g : mm - hmm . professor d : uh , so just add something everywhere rather than just in those places . it 's just a constant , right ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah . i think e yeah . it 's it 's just especially in these segments , i mean , you introduce , um , very artificial behavior . professor d : yeah . yeah . professor g : and professor d : well , see if you add something everywhere , it has almost no effect up up up on on top . and it and it and it has significant effect down there . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : that was , sort of the idea . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : hmm . yeah the that 's true . that those those regions are the cause for this @ @ those negative values or whatever you get . professor g : i mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . so . professor g : i mean , we we could trit uh , we we could think how w what what we could try . phd b : yeah . yeah , yeah . professor g : i mean , it it was just an idea . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : i mean , we professor d : i think when it 's noisy people should just speak up . professor g : to mmm . phd b : so phd e : if we look at the france telecom proposal , they use some kind of noise addition . they have a random number generator , right ? and they add noise on the trajectory of , uh , the log energy only , right ? professor d : oh , they do ! phd b : c - z c - zero and log energy also , yeah . phd e : yeah . um , but i do n't know how much effect it this have , but they do that . yeah . professor g : uh - huh . so it it it it it is l somehow similar to what phd e : i think because they have th log energy , yeah , and then just generate random number . they have some kind of mean and variance , and they add this number to to the log energy simply . um phd b : yeah the the log energy , the after the clean cleaning up . professor d : to the l phd b : so they add a random random noise to it . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : to the just the energy , or to the mel uh , to the mel filter ? phd b : no . on - only to the log energy . phd e : only yeah . professor g : uh - huh . professor d : so it cuz i mean , i think this is most interesting for the mel filters . right ? professor g : uh - huh . professor d : or or f f one or the other . professor g : but but they do not apply filtering of the log energy or what phd b : like , uh i mean professor g : like like a spectral subtraction or phd b : no their filter is not m domain . s so they did filter their time signal professor g : yeah . i kn phd b : and then what @ @ u professor g : and then they calculate from this , the log energy phd b : yeah then after that it is s almost the same as the baseline prop system . professor g : or ? mm - hmm . phd b : and then the final log energy that they that they get , that to the to that they add some random noise . professor d : yeah , but again , that 's just log energy as opposed to filter bank energy . phd b : yeah . so it 's not the mel . you know , it 's not the mel filter bank output . professor d : yeah . phd b : these are log energy computed from the time s domain signal , professor g : mm - hmm . phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : not from the mel filter banks . so did phd e : maybe it 's just a way to decrease the importance of this particular parameter in the in the world feature vector cu if you add noise to one of the parameters , you widen the distributions phd b : becomes flat . the variance , yeah , reduces , phd e : and phd b : so . hmm , yeah . phd e : eee - sss - uh . professor d : so it could reduce the dependence on the amplitude and so on . yeah . phd e : yeah . phd b : yeah . although professor d : maybe . phd e : mm - hmm . phd f : so is , uh is that about it ? phd b : uh , so the phd f : or ? phd b : ok . so the other thing is the i 'm just looking at a little bit on the delay issue where the delay of the system is like a hundred and eighty millisecond . so i just just tried another sk system i mean , another filter which i 've like shown at the end . which is very similar to the existing uh , filter . only uh , only thing is that the phase is is like a totally nonlinear phase because it 's a it 's not a symmetric filter anymore . phd f : this is for the lda ? phd b : yeah so so this this is like so this makes the delay like zero for lda because it 's completely causal . so so i got actually just the results for the italian for that and that 's like so the fifty - one point o nine has become forty - eight point o six , which is like three percent relative degradation . so i have like the fifty - one point o nine phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : and so . i do n't know it f fares for the other conditions . so it 's just like it 's like a three percent relative degradation , with the professor g : but but is there is there a problem with the one hundred eighty milliseconds ? or ? phd b : u uh , may professor d : th - well , this is professor g : yeah , i mean , i talked to to uh , i ta uh , i talked , uh , about it with with hynek . i mean , there is professor d : this is so so , basically our our position is that , um , we should n't be unduly constraining the latency at this point because we 're all still experimenting with trying to make the performance better in the presence of noise . uh , there is a minority in that group who is a arguing who are arguing for um , uh , having a further constraining of the latency . so we 're s just continuing to keep aware of what the trade - offs are and , you know , what what do we gain from having longer or shorter latencies ? but since we always seem to at least get something out of longer latencies not being so constrained , we 're tending to go with that if we 're not told we ca n't do it . phd f : what where was the , um the smallest latency of all the systems last time ? professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : the french telecom . professor d : well , france telecom was was was very short latency professor g : it 's professor d : and they had a very good result . phd f : what what was it ? professor d : it was thirty - five . professor g : it was in the order of thirty milliseconds professor d : yeah . professor g : or phd f : thirteen ? professor g : thirty . phd f : thirty . phd b : thirty - four . professor d : yeah . professor g : yeah . professor d : yeah , so it 's possible to get very short latency . but , again , we 're the the approaches that we 're using are ones that take advantage of phd f : yeah . i was just curious about where we are compared to , you know , the shortest that people have done . professor g : but but i think this thirty milliseconds they they did it did not include the the delta calculation . phd b : yeah . yeah . yeah . professor g : and this is included now , phd b : yeah . yeah . professor g : you know ? phd b : so if they include the delta , it will be an additional forty millisecond . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : yeah . professor g : yeah . i i do n't remember the i th they were not using the htk delta ? phd b : no , they 're using a nine - point window , which is like a four on either side , professor g : nine - point . phd b : which is like f so they did n't include that . professor d : yeah . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : so phd e : where does the comprish compression in decoding delay comes from ? phd b : that 's the way the the the frames are packed , like you have to wait for one more frame to pack . because it 's the crc is computed for two frames always . professor d : well , that the they would need that forty milliseconds also . phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : no . they actually changed the compression scheme altogether . professor d : right ? phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : so they have their own compression and decoding scheme and they i do n't know what they have . but they have coded zero delay for that . because they ch i know they changed it , their compression . they have their own crc , their their own error correction mechanism . so they do n't have to wait more than one more frame to know whether the current frame is in error . professor d : oh , ok . phd b : so they changed the whole thing so that there 's no delay for that compression and part also . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : even you have reported actually zero delay for the compression . i thought maybe you also have some different professor g : mmm . mmm . no , i think i i used this scheme as it was before . phd b : ok . ah . mm - hmm . phd f : ok , we 've got twenty minutes so we should probably try to move along . uh , did you wan na go next , stephane ? phd e : i can go next . yeah . mmm . professor d : oh . wait a minute . it 's phd e : it 's yeah , we have to take professor d : wait a minute . i think i 'm confused . phd e : well ok . professor d : alright . phd e : so you have w w one sheet ? this one is you do n't need it , alright . professor d : uh phd e : so you have to take the whole the five . there should be five sheets . professor d : i have four now because i left one with dave because i thought i was dropping one off and passing the others on . so , no , we 're not . ok . phd b : thanks . phd h : please give me one . professor d : ah , we need one more over here . phd e : ok , maybe there 's not enough for everybody . phd f : i can share with barry . grad a : yeah . professor d : oh , ok . phd e : but can we look at this ? grad c : yeah . phd e : so , yeah , there are two figures showing actually the , mmm , um , performance of the current vad . so it 's a n neural network based on plp parameters , uh , which estimate silence probabilities , and then i just put a median filtering on this to smooth the probabilities , right ? um i did n't use the the scheme that 's currently in the proposal because i do n't want to in the proposal well , in in the system we want to add like speech frame before every word and a little bit of of , uh , s a couple of frames after also . uh , but to estimate the performance of the vad , we do n't want to do that , because it would artificially increase the um the false alarm rate of speech detection . right ? um , so , there is u normally a figure for the finnish and one for italian . and maybe someone has two for the italian because i 'm missing one figure here . well well , whatever . uh yeah , so one surprising thing that we can notice first is that apparently the speech miss rate is uh , higher than the false alarm rate . so . it means professor g : so so what is the lower curve and the upper curve ? phd e : mm - hmm . yeah , there are two curves . one curve 's for the close - talking microphone , which is the lower curve . professor g : yeah . phd e : and the other one is for the distant microphone professor g : ah , ok . phd e : which has more noise so , it 's logical that it performs worse . so as i was saying , the miss rate is quite important uh , which means that we tend to label speech as as a silence . and , uh , i did n't analyze further yet , but i think it 's it may be due to the fricative sounds which may be in noisy condition maybe label labelled as silence . and it may also be due to the alignment because well , the reference alignment . because right now i just use an alignment obtained from from a system trained on channel zero . and i checked it a little bit but there might be alignment errors . um , yeah , e like the fact that the the models tend to align their first state on silence and their last state o on silence also . so the reference reference alignment would label as speech some silence frame before speech and after speech . this is something that we already noticed before when mmm , so this cus this could also explain , uh , the high miss rate maybe . uh professor g : and and this this curves are the average over the whole database , so . phd e : yeah . right . um yeah , and the different points of the curves are for five uh , thresholds on the probability { comment } uh from point three to point seven . phd b : so that threshold phd e : mm - hmm . yeah . phd b : ok . s ok so d the detection threshold is very phd e : so the v phd b : yeah , yeah . phd e : the vad ? yeah . there first , a threshold on the probability { comment } @ @ { comment } that puts all the values to zero or one . and then the median filtering . phd b : yeah , so the median filtering is fixed . you just change the threshold ? phd e : yeah . it 's fixed , phd b : yeah . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . so , going from channel zero to channel one , uh , almost double the error rate . um , yeah . well , so it 's a reference performance that we can you know , if we want to to work on the vad , { comment } we can work on this basis phd b : mm - hmm . phd e : and grad a : is this is this vad a mlp ? phd e : yeah . grad a : ok . how how big is it ? phd e : it 's a very big one . i do n't remember . phd b : so three three hundred and fifty inputs , uh , six thousand hidden nodes and two outputs . t t yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : middle - sized one . phd b : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . yeah . uh , ppp . i do n't know , you have questions about that , or suggestions ? phd b : mmm . s so phd e : it seems the performance seems worse in finnish , which phd b : well , it 's not trained on finnish . phd e : uh phd h : it 's worse . phd e : it 's not trained on finnish , yeah . professor d : what 's it trained on ? phd b : i mean , the mlp 's not trained on finnish . professor d : right , what 's it trained on ? phd b : oh oh . sorry . uh , it 's italian ti - digits . professor d : yeah . oh , it 's trained on italian ? phd b : yeah . professor d : yeah , ok . phd e : mm - hmm . and phd b : that 's right . phd e : and also there are like funny noises on finnish more than on italian . i mean , like music professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . yeah , the yeah , it 's true . phd e : and um so , yeah , we were looking at this . but for most of the noises , noises are um , i do n't know if we want to talk about that . but , well , the the `` car `` noises are below like five hundred hertz . and we were looking at the `` music `` utterances and in this case the noise is more about two thousand hertz . phd b : yeah . phd e : well , the music energy 's very low apparently . uh , uh , from zero to two two thousand hertz . so maybe just looking at this frequency range for from five hundred to two thousand would improve somewhat the vad and phd b : yeah . phd e : mmm phd b : so there are like some some s some parameters you wanted to use or something ? phd e : yeah , but yes . phd b : or yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . uh , the next , um oh , it 's there . professor g : so is the is the is the training is the training based on these labels files which you take as reference here ? phd e : yeah . professor g : wh - when you train the neural net y y you phd e : no . it 's not . it 's it was trained on some alignment obtained um , uh for the italian data , i think we trained the neural network on with embedded training . so re - estimation of the alignment using the neural network , i guess . that 's right ? phd b : yeah . we actually trained , uh , the on the italian training part . phd e : yeah . phd b : we we had another system with u phd e : so it was a f f a phonetic classification system for the italian aurora data . phd b : yeah . it must be somewhere . yeah . phd e : for the aurora data that it was trained on , it was different . like , for ti - digits you used a a previous system that you had , i guess . phd b : what no it yeah , yeah . that 's true . phd e : so the alignments from the different database that are used for training came from different system . phd b : syste yeah . phd e : then we put them tog together . well , you put them together and trained the vad on them . phd b : yeah . yeah . phd e : uh , but did you use channel did you align channel one also ? or phd b : i just took their entire italian training part . phd e : yeah . phd b : so it was both channel zero plus channel one . phd e : so di yeah . so the alignments might be wrong then on channel one , right ? phd b : on one . possible . phd e : so we might , phd b : we can do a realignment . phd e : yeah , phd b : that 's true . phd e : at least want to retrain on these alignments , which should be better because they come from close - talking microphone . professor g : yeah , the that was my idea . i mean , if if it ha if it is not the same labeling which is taking the spaces . phd b : yeah . yeah , possible . phd e : yeah . phd b : i mean , it so the system phd e : yeah . phd b : so the vad was trained on maybe different set of labels for channel zero and channel one phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : and professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : was the alignments were w were different for s certainly different because they were independently trained . phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : we did n't copy the channel zero alignments to channel one . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . phd e : yeah . phd b : but for the new alignments what you generated , you just copied the channel zero to channel one , right ? yeah . phd e : right . yeah . um . and eh , hhh actually when we look at at the vad , for some utterances it 's almost perfect , i mean , it just dropped one frame , the first frame of speech or so there are some utterances where it 's almost one hundred percent vad performance . uh , but yeah . mmm yep . so the next thing is um , i have the spreadsheet for three different system . but for this you only have to look right now on the speechdat - car performance uh , because i did n't test so i did n't test the spectral subtraction on ti - digits yet . uh , so you have three she sheets . one is the um proposal - one system . actually , it 's not exe exactly proposal - one . it 's the system that sunil just described . um , but with uh , wiener filtering from um , france telecom included . um , so this gives like fifty - seven point seven percent , uh , s uh , error rate reduction on the speechdat - car data . mmm , and then i have two sheets where it 's for a system where uh , so it 's again the same system . but in this case we have spectral subtraction with a maximum overestimation factor of two point five . uh , there is smoothing of the gain trajectory with some kind of uh , low - pass filter , which has forty milliseconds latency . and then , after subtraction um , i add a constant to the energies and i have two cases d where the first case is where the constant is twenty - five db below the mean speech energy and the other is thirty db below . um , and for these s two system we have like fifty - five point , uh , five - percent improvement , and fifty - eight point one . so again , it 's around fifty - six , fifty - seven . uh professor d : cuz i notice the ti - digits number is exactly the same for these last two ? phd e : yeah , because i did n't for the france telecom uh , spectral subtraction included in the our system , the ti - digits number are the right one , but not for the other system because i did n't test it yet this system , including with spectral subtraction on the ti - digits data . i just tested it on speechdat - car . professor d : ah ! so so that means the only thing professor g : mm - hmm . so so so these numbers are simply phd e : this , we have to yeah . phd b : but this number . professor d : yeah . professor g : yeah . professor d : so you so you just should look at that fifty - eight perc point o nine percent and so on . phd e : right . right . professor d : ok . good . phd e : mm - hmm . um , yeah . phd b : so this so by uh , by by reducing the noise a a decent threshold like minus thirty db , it 's like uh , you are like r r reducing the floor of the noisy regions , right ? phd e : yeah . yeah . the floor is lower . um , phd b : uh - huh . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : i 'm sorry . so when you say minus twenty - five or minus thirty db , with respect to what ? phd e : to the average um , speech energy which is estimated on the world database . professor d : ok , so basically you 're creating a signal - to - noise ratio of twenty - five or thirty db ? phd e : yeah . but it 's not professor g : i i i think what you do is this . phd e : it it 's professor g : i when when you have this , after you subtracted it , i mean , then you get something w w with this , uh , where you set the values to zero and then you simply add an additive constant again . phd e : yeah . professor g : so you shift it somehow . this this whole curve is shifted again . professor d : but did you do that before the thresholding to zero , phd e : right . it 's professor d : or ? phd e : but , it 's after the thresholding . professor d : so you 'd really want to do it before , phd e : maybe professor d : right ? phd e : maybe we might do it before , professor d : yeah , because then the then you would have less of that phenomenon . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor d : i think . phd e : uh professor g : e hhh . phd e : yeah . but still , when you do this and you take the log after that , it it reduce the the variance . professor d : yeah , it it right . phd e : but mmm , professor d : yeah , that will reduce the variance . that 'll help . but maybe if you does do it before you get less of these funny - looking things he 's drawing . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : so before it 's like adding this , col to the to the o exi original professor g : but but phd e : we would professor d : right at the point where you 've done the subtraction . um , essentially you 're adding a constant into everything . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : but the way stephane did it , it is exactly the way i have implemented in the phone , so . professor d : oh , yeah , better do it different , then . yeah . just you you just ta you just set it for a particular signal - to - noise ratio that you want ? phd e : yeah . professor g : yeah i i made s similar investigations like stephane did here , just uh , adding this constant and and looking how dependent is it on the value of the constant professor d : yeah . yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : and then , must choose them somehow to give on average the best results for a certain range of the signal - to - noise ratios . professor d : uh - huh . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . professor g : so phd e : oh , it 's clear . i should have gi given other results . also it 's clear when you do n't add noise , it 's much worse . like , around five percent worse i guess . professor d : uh - huh . phd e : and if you add too much noise it get worse also . and it seems that right now this this is c a constant that does not depend on { comment } on anything that you can learn from the utterance . it 's just a constant noise addition . um . and i i think w w professor d : i i 'm sorry . then then i 'm confused . phd e : i think professor d : i thought you 're saying it does n't depend on the utterance but i thought you were adding an amount that was twenty - five db down from the signal energy . phd e : yeah , so the way i did that , { comment } i i just measured the average speech energy of the all the italian data . and then i i have i used this as mean speech energy . mm - hmm . professor d : oh , it 's just a constant amount over all . phd e : yeah . and wha what i observed is that for italian and spanish , { comment } when you go to thirty and twenty - five db , { comment } uh it it 's good . it stays in this range , it 's , uh , the p u well , the performance of the this algorithm is quite good . but for finnish , you have a degradation already when you go from thirty - five to thirty and then from thirty to twenty - five . and i have the feeling that maybe it 's because just finnish has a mean energy that 's lower than than the other databases . and due to this the thresholds should be professor d : yeah . phd e : the the a the noise addition should be lower professor d : but in i mean , in the real thing you 're not gon na be able to measure what people are doing over half an hour or an hour , or anything , right ? phd e : and professor d : so you have to come up with this number from something else . phd e : yeah . so professor g : uh , but you are not doing it now language dependent ? or ? phd e : it 's not . it 's just something that 's fixed . professor g : no . it 's overall . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . um professor d : but what he is doing language dependent is measuring what that number i reference is that he comes down twenty - five down from . phd e : yeah , so i g no . it no . because i did it i started working on italian . i obtained this average energy professor d : yeah . phd e : and then i used this one . phd b : for all the languages . ok . phd e : yeah . professor d : so it 's sort of arbitrary . phd b : yeah . professor d : i mean , so if y if yeah . yeah . phd e : um , yeah , so the next thing is to use this as as maybe initialization professor d : uh - huh . phd e : and then use something on - line . professor d : something more adaptive , phd e : but and i expect improvement at least in finnish because eh the way professor d : yeah . ok . phd e : well , um , for italian and spanish it 's th this value works good but not necessarily for finnish . mmm . but unfortunately there is , like , this forty millisecond latency and , um yeah , so i would try to somewhat reduce this @ @ . i already know that if i completely remove this latency , so . um , { comment } it um there is a three percent hit on italian . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : d does latency sorry . go ahead . professor g : yeah . your your smoothing was @ @ { comment } uh , over this s so to say , the the factor of the wiener . and then it 's , uh what was it ? this phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : this smoothing , it was over the subtraction factor , so to say . phd e : it 's a smoothing over the the gain of the subtraction algorithm . professor g : was this done mm - hmm . and and you are looking into the future , into the past . phd e : right . professor g : and smoothing . phd e : so , to smooth this thing . professor g : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . um professor g : and did did you try simply to smooth um to smooth the the t to to smooth stronger the the envelope ? phd e : um , no , i did not . professor g : because i mean , it should have a similar effect if you phd e : yeah . professor g : i mean , you you have now several stages of smoothing , so to say . you start up . as far as i remember you you smooth somehow the envelope , you smooth somehow the noise estimate , phd e : mm - hmm . mmm professor g : and and later on you smooth also this subtraction factor . phd e : uh , no , it 's it 's just the gain that 's smoothed actually phd b : uh , actually i d i do all the smoothing . phd e : but it 's smoothed professor g : ah . oh , it w it was you . phd b : yeah , yeah . phd e : uh yeah . professor g : yeah . phd e : yeah . no , in this case it 's just the gain . professor g : yeah . phd e : and professor g : uh - huh . phd e : but the way it 's done is that um , for low gain , there is this non nonlinear smoothing actually . for low gains um , i use the smoothed sm uh , smoothed version but for high gain @ @ { comment } it 's i do n't smooth . professor g : uh . mm - hmm . i just , uh it experience shows you , if if you do the the best is to do the smoo smoothing as early as possible . phd e : uh - huh . professor g : so w when you start up . i mean , you start up with the with the somehow with the noisy envelope . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : and , best is to smooth this somehow . phd e : mm - hmm . uh , yeah , i could try this . um . professor g : and phd b : so , before estimating the snr , @ @ smooth the envelope . professor g : yeah . yeah . uh - huh . phd e : mm - hmm . but yeah . then i i would need to find a way to like smooth less also when there is high energy . cuz i noticed that it it helps a little bit to s like smooth more during low energy portions and less during speech , professor g : yes , y phd e : because if you smooth then y you kind of distort the speech . professor g : yeah . yeah . right . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah , i think when w you you could do it in this way that you say , if you if i 'm you have somehow a noise estimate , phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : and , if you say i 'm i 'm with my envelope i 'm close to this noise estimate , phd e : yeah . professor g : then you have a bad signal - to - noise ratio and then you you would like to have a stronger smoothing . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : so you could you could base it on your estimation of the signal - to - noise ratio on your actual phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mmm . phd b : yeah , or some silence probability from the vad if you have phd e : um , yeah , but i do n't trust the current vad . so . phd b : yeah , uh , so not not right now maybe . phd e : well , maybe . professor d : the vad later will be much better . phd e : maybe . professor d : yeah . so . i see . phd f : so is that it ? phd e : uh , fff { comment } i think that 's it . yeah . uh . professor g : s so to summarize the performance of these , speechdat - car results is similar than than yours so to say . phd b : yeah , so the fifty - eight is like the be some fifty - six point phd e : yeah . professor g : y you have you have fifty - six point four phd b : yeah , that 's true . professor g : and and and dependent on this additive constant , it is s better or or worse . phd e : yeah . phd b : slightly better . phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah . phd e : and , yeah , i i i the condition where it 's better than your approach , it 's it just because maybe it 's better on well matched and that the weight on well matched is is bigger , phd b : yeah . yeah , you you caught up . phd e : because phd b : yep , that 's true . phd e : if you do n't weigh differently the different condition , you can see that your well , the win the two - stage wiener filtering is maybe better or phd b : yeah . phd e : it 's better for high mismatch , right ? phd b : yeah , it 's better for high mismatch . phd e : mm - hmm . but a little bit worse for well matched . phd b : so over all it gets , yeah , worse for the well matched condition , so y phd e : uh - huh . phd f : so we need to combine these two . phd b : uh , that 's that 's the best thing , is like the french telecom system is optimized for the well matched condition . they c phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . so they know that the weighting is good for the well matched , and so there 's everywhere the well matched 's s s performance is very good for the french telecom . phd e : yeah . professor g : mm - hmm . phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : t we are we may also have to do something similar @ @ . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : well , our tradition here has always been to focus on the mismatched . phd b : um the professor d : cuz it 's more interesting . professor g : mu - my mine was it too , i mean . professor d : yeah . professor g : before i started working on this aurora . professor d : yeah . yeah . yeah . ok . phd f : carmen ? do you , uh phd h : well , i only say that the this is , a summary of the of all the vts experiments and say that the result in the last { comment } um , for italian the last experiment for italian , are bad . i make a mistake when i write . up at d i copy one of the bad result . phd b : so you phd h : and there . you know , this . um , well . if we put everything , we improve a lot u the spectral use of the vts but the final result are not still mmm , good like the wiener filter for example . i do n't know . maybe it 's @ @ { comment } it 's possible to to have the same result . phd b : that 's somewhere phd h : i do n't know exactly . mmm . because i have , mmm , { comment } worse result in medium mismatch and high mismatch . phd b : you s you have a better r yeah . you have some results that are good for the high mismatch . phd h : and yeah . i someti are more or less similar but but are worse . and still i do n't have the result for ti - digits . the program is training . maybe for this weekend i will have result ti - digits and i can complete that s like this . well . professor d : uh . right . phd h : one thing that i { comment } note are not here in this result but are speak are spoken before with sunil i i improve my result using clean lda filter . phd b : mm - hmm . professor d : mm - hmm . phd h : if i use , eh , the lda filter that are training with the noisy speech , that hurts the res my results . professor d : so what are these numbers here ? are these with the clean or with the noisy ? phd h : this is with the clean . with the noise i have worse result , that if i does n't use it . professor d : uh - huh . phd h : but m that may be because with this technique we are using really really clean speech . the speech the { comment } representation that go to the htk is really clean speech because it 's from the dictionary , the code book and maybe from that . i do n't know . phd e : mm - hmm . phd h : because i think that you did some experiments using the two the two lda filter , clean and noi and noise , phd e : it 's phd h : and it does n't matter too much . phd e : um , yeah , i did that but it does n't matter on speechdat - car , but , it matters , uh , a lot on ti - digits . phd b : using the clean filter . phd h : it 's better to use clean . phd e : yeah , d uh , it 's much better when you we used the clean derived lda filter . phd h : mm - hmm . maybe you can do d also this . phd b : yeah . phd h : to use clean speech . phd b : yeah , i 'll try . phd e : uh , but , yeah , sunil in in your result it 's phd b : i i 'll try the cle no , i i my result is with the noisy noisy lda . phd e : it 's with the noisy one . yeah . phd b : yeah . it 's with the noisy . yeah . it 's it 's not the clean lda . phd e : so professor d : um phd b : it 's in in the front sheet , i have like like the summary . yeah . professor d : and and your result { comment } is with the phd e : it 's with the clean lda . phd b : oh . this is your results are all with the clean lda result ? phd h : yeah , with the clean lda . phd b : ok . @ @ . phd e : yeah . and in your case it 's all all noisy , phd h : is that the reason ? phd b : all noisy , yeah . phd e : yeah . but phd h : and phd b : uh phd e : yeah . phd b : uh phd e : but i observe my case it 's in , uh , uh , at least on speechdat - car it does n't matter but ti - digits it 's like two or three percent absolute , uh , { comment } better . phd b : on ti - digits this matters . absolute . uh professor d : so you really might wan na try the clean i think . phd e : so if phd b : yeah , i i i will have to look at it . yeah , that 's true . professor d : yeah . yeah , that could be sizeable right there . phd h : and this is everything . professor g : yeah . maybe you you are leaving in in about two weeks carmen . no ? phd h : yeah . professor g : yeah . so i mean , if if if i would put it put on the head of a project mana manager i i i i would say , uh , um i mean there is not so much time left now . professor d : be my guest . professor g : i mean , if um , what what i would do is i i i would pick @ @ { comment } the best consolation , which you think , and c create create all the results for the whole database that you get to the final number as as sunil did it phd h : and prepare at the s professor g : and um and maybe also to to write somehow a document where you describe your approach , and what you have done . phd h : yeah , i was thinking to do that next week . professor d : yeah . professor g : yeah . professor d : yeah , i 'll i 'll borrow the head back and and agree . yeah , phd h : yeah , i wi i i will do that next week . professor d : that 's that 's right . in fact , actually i g i guess the , uh the spanish government , uh , requires that anyway . they want some kind of report from everybody who 's in the program . phd h : mm - hmm . professor d : so . and of course i 'd we 'd we 'd like to see it too . so , yeah . phd f : so , um , what 's do you think we , uh , should do the digits or skip it ? or what are what do you think ? professor d : uh , we have them now ? phd f : yeah , got them . professor d : uh , why don why do n't we do it ? just { comment } just take a minute . phd h : i can send yet . phd f : would you pass those down ? professor d : oh ! sorry . phd f : ok , um , so i guess i 'll go ahead . um , professor d : seat ? phd e : dave ? is it the channel , or the mike ? i do n't remember . it 's the mike ? professor d : mike ? phd e : it 's not four . phd h : this is date and time . no . on the channel , channel . professor g : what is this ? phd f : ok , if you could just leave , um , your mike on top of your , uh , digit form i can fill in any information that 's missing . that 's uh i did n't get a chance to fill them out ahead of time . yeah , we 're gon na have to fix that . uh , let 's see , it starts with one here , and then goes around and ends with nine here . grad a : seven . so i i 'm eight , phd f : so he 's eight , grad a : you 're seven . phd f : you 're seven , </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on sri experiments and mean subtraction </s> grad c : ok . um , so , yeah , the this past week i 've been main mainly occupied with , um , getting some results , u from the sri system trained on this short hub - five training set for the mean subtraction method . and , um , i ran some tests last night . but , um , c the results are suspicious . um , it 's , um , cuz they 're the baseline results are worse than , um , andreas than results andreas got previously . and it could have something to do with , um phd f : that 's on digits ? grad c : that 's on digits . it c it it could h it could have something to do with , um , downsampling . that 's that 's worth looking into . um , d and , um , ap ap apart from that , i guess the the main thing i have t ta i have to talk is , um , where i 'm planning to go over the next week . um . so i 've been working on integrating this mean subtraction approach into the smartkom system . and there 's this question of , well , so , um , in my tests before with htk i found it worked it worked the best with about twelve seconds of data used to estimate the mean , but , we 'll often have less { comment } in the smartkom system . um . so i think we 'll use as much data as we have at a particular time , and we 'll we 'll concatenate utterances together , um , to get as much data as we possibly can from the user . but , um , there 's a question of how to set up the models . so um , we could train the models . if we think twelve seconds is ideal we could train the models using twelve seconds to calculate the mean , to mean subtract the training data . or we could , um , use some other amount . so like i did an experiment where i , um , was using six seconds in test , um , but , for i tried twelve seconds in train . and i tried , um , um , the same in train i 'm a i tried six seconds in train . and six seconds in train was about point three percent better . um , and um , it 's not clear to me yet whether that 's something significant . so i wan na do some tests and , um , actually make some plots of , um for a particular amount of data and test what happens if you vary the amount of data in train . phd f : mm - hmm . professor d : uh , guenter , i do n't know if you t followed this stuff but this is , uh , a uh , uh , long - term long - term window f f yeah . yeah , he you talked about it . professor g : yeah , we we spoke about it already , professor d : oh , ok . so you know what he 's doing . professor g : yeah . professor d : alright . grad c : y s so i was i actually ran the experiments mostly and i i was i was hoping to have the plots with me today . i just did n't get to it . but , um yeah , i wou i would be curious about people 's feedback on this cuz i 'm @ @ { comment } i p i think there are some i think it 's it 's kind of like a a bit of a tricky engineering problem . i 'm trying to figure out what 's the optimal way to set this up . so , um , i 'll try to make the plots and then put some postscript up on my on my web page . and i 'll mention it in my status report if people wan na take a look . professor d : you could clarify something for me . you 're saying point three percent , you take a point three percent hit , when the training and testing links are do n't match or something ? phd e : hello . professor d : is that what it is ? grad c : w well , it c professor d : or ? grad c : i i do n't think it it 's just for any mismatch you take a hit . professor d : yeah . grad c : i in some cases it might be u better to have a mismatch . like i think i saw something like like if you only have two seconds in test , or , um , maybe it was something like four seconds , you actually do a little better if you , um , train on six seconds than if you train on four seconds . professor d : yeah . right . grad c : um , but the case , uh with the point three percent hit was using six seconds in test , um , comparing train on twelve seconds { comment } versus train on six seconds . professor d : and which was worse ? grad c : the train on twelve seconds . professor d : ok . but point three percent , uh , w from what to what ? that 's point three percent grad c : on the the the accuracies w went from it was something vaguely like ninety - five point six accuracy , um , improved to ninety - five point nine wh when i professor d : so four point four to four point one . so yeah . so about a about an eight percent , uh , seven or eight percent relative ? uh , yeah . well , i think in a p you know , if if you were going for an evaluation system you 'd care . but if you were doing a live system that people were actually using nobody would notice . it 's uh , i think the thing is to get something that 's practical , that that you could really use . grad c : huh . that 's that 's interesting . alright , the e uh , i see your point . i guess i was thinking of it as , um , an interesting research problem . the how to g i was thinking that for the asru paper we could have a section saying , `` for smartkom , we we d in we tried this approach in , uh , interactive system `` , which i do n't think has been done before . professor d : yeah . mm - hmm . grad c : and and then there was two research questions from that . professor d : mm - hmm . grad c : and one is the k does it still work if you just use the past history ? professor d : mm - hmm . grad c : alright , and the other was this question of , um what i was just talking about now . so i guess that 's why i thought it was interesting . professor d : i mean , a short - time fft short - time cepstrum calculation , uh , mean u mean calculation work that people have in commercial systems , they do this all the time . they the they calculate it from previous utterances and then use it , you know . grad c : yeah , um . professor d : but but , uh , as you say , there has n't been that much with this long long - time , uh , spectra work . grad c : oh , o oh , ok . so that 's that 's that 's standard . um professor d : yeah . pretty common . yeah . um , but , u uh , yes . no , it is interesting . and the other thing is , i mean , there 's two sides to these really small , uh , gradations in performance . um , i mean , on the one hand in a practical system if something is , uh , four point four percent error , four point one percent error , people wo n't really tell be able to tell the difference . on the other hand , when you 're doing , uh , research , you may , eh you might find that the way that you build up a change from a ninety - five percent accurate system to a ninety - eight percent accurate system is through ten or twelve little things that you do that each are point three percent . so so the they they it 's i do n't mean to say that they 're they 're irrelevant . uh , they are relevant . but , um , i for a demo , you wo n't see it . grad c : mm - hmm . right . ok . professor d : yeah . grad c : and , um , let 's l let 's see . um , ok . and then there 's um , another thing i wan na start looking at , um , wi is , um , the choice of the analysis window length . so i 've just been using two seconds just because that 's what carlos did before . uh , i wrote to him asking about he chose the two seconds . and it seemed like he chose it a bit informally . so , um , with the with the htk set - up i should be able to do some experiments , on just varying that length , say between one and three seconds , in a few different reverberation conditions , um , say this room and also a few of the artificial impulse responses we have for reverberation , just , um , making some plots and seeing how they look . and , um , so , with the the sampling rate i was using , one second or two seconds or four seconds is at a power of two um , number of samples and , um , i 'll i 'll jus f for the ones in between i guess i 'll just zero - pad . professor d : mm - hmm . i guess one thing that might also be an issue , uh , cuz part of what you 're doing is you 're getting a a spectrum over a bunch of different kinds of speech sounds . um , and so it might matter how fast someone was talking for instance . you know , if you if if if there 's a lot of phones in one second maybe you 'll get a a really good sampling of all these different things , and and , uh , on the other hand if someone 's talking slowly maybe you 'd need more . so i do n't know if you have some samples of faster or slower speech but it might make a difference . i do n't know . grad c : uh , yeah , i do n't i do n't think the ti - digits data that i have , um , i is would be appropriate for that . professor d : yeah , probably not . yeah . grad c : but what do you what about if i w i fed it through some kind of , um , speech processing algorithm that changed the speech rate ? </s>
<s> what did the professor think about speech rate algorithms ? </s> professor d : mm - hmm . i guess one thing that might also be an issue , uh , cuz part of what you 're doing is you 're getting a a spectrum over a bunch of different kinds of speech sounds . um , and so it might matter how fast someone was talking for instance . you know , if you if if if there 's a lot of phones in one second maybe you 'll get a a really good sampling of all these different things , and and , uh , on the other hand if someone 's talking slowly maybe you 'd need more . so i do n't know if you have some samples of faster or slower speech but it might make a difference . i do n't know . grad c : uh , yeah , i do n't i do n't think the ti - digits data that i have , um , i is would be appropriate for that . professor d : yeah , probably not . yeah . grad c : but what do you what about if i w i fed it through some kind of , um , speech processing algorithm that changed the speech rate ? professor d : yeah , but then you 'll have the degradation of of , uh , whatever you do uh , added onto that . but maybe . yeah , maybe if you get something that sounds that that 's does a pretty job at that . grad c : yeah . well , uh , just if you think it 's worth looking into . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about lda filters ? </s> grad c : and and th the third thing , um , uh , is , um , barry explained lda filtering to me yesterday . and so , um , mike shire in his thesis um , did a a series of experiments , um , training lda filters in d on different conditions . and you were interested in having me repeat this for for this mean subtraction approach ? is is that right ? or for these long analysis windows , i guess , is the right way to put it . professor d : i guess , the the the issue i was the general issue i was bringing up was that if you 're have a moving moving window , uh , a wa a a set of weights times things that , uh , move along , shift along in time , that you have in fact a linear time invariant filter . and you just happened to have picked a particular one by setting all the weights to be equal . and so the issue is what are some other filters that you could use , uh , in that sense of `` filter `` ? grad c : mm - hmm . professor d : and , um , as i was saying , i think the simplest thing to do is not to train anything , but just to do some sort of , uh , uh , hamming or hanning , uh , kind of window , kind of thing , grad c : right . mm - hmm . professor d : just sort of to de - emphasize the jarring . so i think that would sort of be the first thing to do . but then , yeah , the lda i uh , is interesting because it would sort of say well , suppose you actually trained this up to do the best you could by some criterion , what would the filter look like then ? grad c : uh - huh . professor d : uh , and , um , that 's sort of what we 're doing in this aur - aurora stuff . and , uh , it 's still not clear to me in the long run whether the best thing to do would be to do that or to have some stylized version of the filter that looks like these things you 've trained up , because you always have the problem that it 's trained up for one condition and it is n't quite right for another . so . uh that 's that 's why that 's why rasta filter has actually ended up lasting a long time , people still using it quite a bit , because y you do n't change it . so does n't get any worse . uh , anyway . grad c : o ok . so , um , a actually i was just thinking about what i was asking about earlier , wi which is about having less than say twelve seconds in the smartkom system to do the mean subtraction . you said in systems where you use cepstral mean subtraction , they concatenate utterances and , do you know how they address this issue of , um , testing versus training ? can professor d : go ahead . professor g : i think what they do is they do it always on - line , i mean , that you just take what you have from the past , that you calculate the mean of this and subtract the mean . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on noise addition </s> phd e : and if you add too much noise it get worse also . and it seems that right now this this is c a constant that does not depend on { comment } on anything that you can learn from the utterance . it 's just a constant noise addition . um . and i i think w w professor d : i i 'm sorry . then then i 'm confused . phd e : i think professor d : i thought you 're saying it does n't depend on the utterance but i thought you were adding an amount that was twenty - five db down from the signal energy . phd e : yeah , so the way i did that , { comment } i i just measured the average speech energy of the all the italian data . and then i i have i used this as mean speech energy . mm - hmm . professor d : oh , it 's just a constant amount over all . phd e : yeah . and wha what i observed is that for italian and spanish , { comment } when you go to thirty and twenty - five db , { comment } uh it it 's good . it stays in this range , it 's , uh , the p u well , the performance of the this algorithm is quite good . but for finnish , you have a degradation already when you go from thirty - five to thirty and then from thirty to twenty - five . and i have the feeling that maybe it 's because just finnish has a mean energy that 's lower than than the other databases . and due to this the thresholds should be professor d : yeah . phd e : the the a the noise addition should be lower professor d : but in i mean , in the real thing you 're not gon na be able to measure what people are doing over half an hour or an hour , or anything , right ? phd e : and professor d : so you have to come up with this number from something else . phd e : yeah . so professor g : uh , but you are not doing it now language dependent ? or ? phd e : it 's not . it 's just something that 's fixed . professor g : no . it 's overall . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . um professor d : but what he is doing language dependent is measuring what that number i reference is that he comes down twenty - five down from . phd e : yeah , so i g no . it no . because i did it i started working on italian . i obtained this average energy professor d : yeah . phd e : and then i used this one . phd b : for all the languages . ok . phd e : yeah . professor d : so it 's sort of arbitrary . phd b : yeah . professor d : i mean , so if y if yeah . yeah . phd e : um , yeah , so the next thing is to use this as as maybe initialization professor d : uh - huh . phd e : and then use something on - line . professor d : something more adaptive , phd e : but and i expect improvement at least in finnish because eh the way professor d : yeah . ok . phd e : well , um , for italian and spanish it 's th this value works good but not necessarily for finnish . mmm . but unfortunately there is , like , this forty millisecond latency and , um yeah , so i would try to somewhat reduce this @ @ . i already know that if i completely remove this latency , so . um , { comment } it um there is a three percent hit on italian . professor g : mm - hmm . phd b : d does latency sorry . go ahead . professor g : yeah . your your smoothing was @ @ { comment } uh , over this s so to say , the the factor of the wiener . and then it 's , uh what was it ? this phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : this smoothing , it was over the subtraction factor , so to say . phd e : it 's a smoothing over the the gain of the subtraction algorithm . professor g : was this done mm - hmm . and and you are looking into the future , into the past . phd e : right . professor g : and smoothing . phd e : so , to smooth this thing . professor g : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . um professor g : and did did you try simply to smooth um to smooth the the t to to smooth stronger the the envelope ? phd e : um , no , i did not . professor g : because i mean , it should have a similar effect if you phd e : yeah . professor g : i mean , you you have now several stages of smoothing , so to say . you start up . as far as i remember you you smooth somehow the envelope , you smooth somehow the noise estimate , phd e : mm - hmm . mmm professor g : and and later on you smooth also this subtraction factor . phd e : uh , no , it 's it 's just the gain that 's smoothed actually phd b : uh , actually i d i do all the smoothing . phd e : but it 's smoothed professor g : ah . oh , it w it was you . phd b : yeah , yeah . phd e : uh yeah . professor g : yeah . phd e : yeah . no , in this case it 's just the gain . professor g : yeah . phd e : and professor g : uh - huh . phd e : but the way it 's done is that um , for low gain , there is this non nonlinear smoothing actually . for low gains um , i use the smoothed sm uh , smoothed version but for high gain @ @ { comment } it 's i do n't smooth . professor g : uh . mm - hmm . i just , uh it experience shows you , if if you do the the best is to do the smoo smoothing as early as possible . phd e : uh - huh . professor g : so w when you start up . i mean , you start up with the with the somehow with the noisy envelope . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : and , best is to smooth this somehow . phd e : mm - hmm . uh , yeah , i could try this . um . professor g : and phd b : so , before estimating the snr , @ @ smooth the envelope . professor g : yeah . yeah . uh - huh . phd e : mm - hmm . but yeah . then i i would need to find a way to like smooth less also when there is high energy . cuz i noticed that it it helps a little bit to s like smooth more during low energy portions and less during speech , professor g : yes , y phd e : because if you smooth then y you kind of distort the speech . professor g : yeah . yeah . right . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah , i think when w you you could do it in this way that you say , if you if i 'm you have somehow a noise estimate , phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : and , if you say i 'm i 'm with my envelope i 'm close to this noise estimate , phd e : yeah . professor g : then you have a bad signal - to - noise ratio and then you you would like to have a stronger smoothing . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : so you could you could base it on your estimation of the signal - to - noise ratio on your actual phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mmm . phd b : yeah , or some silence probability from the vad if you have phd e : um , yeah , but i do n't trust the current vad . so . phd b : yeah , uh , so not not right now maybe . phd e : well , maybe . professor d : the vad later will be much better . phd e : maybe . professor d : yeah . so . i see . phd f : so is that it ? phd e : uh , fff { comment } i think that 's it . yeah . uh . professor g : s so to summarize the performance of these , speechdat - car results is similar than than yours so to say . phd b : yeah , so the fifty - eight is like the be some fifty - six point phd e : yeah . professor g : y you have you have fifty - six point four phd b : yeah , that 's true . professor g : and and and dependent on this additive constant , it is s better or or worse . phd e : yeah . phd b : slightly better . phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor g : yeah . phd e : and , yeah , i i i the condition where it 's better than your approach , it 's it just because maybe it 's better on well matched and that the weight on well matched is is bigger , phd b : yeah . yeah , you you caught up . phd e : because phd b : yep , that 's true . phd e : if you do n't weigh differently the different condition , you can see that your well , the win the two - stage wiener filtering is maybe better or phd b : yeah . phd e : it 's better for high mismatch , right ? phd b : yeah , it 's better for high mismatch . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about high mismatch ? </s> phd e : it 's better for high mismatch , right ? phd b : yeah , it 's better for high mismatch . phd e : mm - hmm . but a little bit worse for well matched . phd b : so over all it gets , yeah , worse for the well matched condition , so y phd e : uh - huh . phd f : so we need to combine these two . phd b : uh , that 's that 's the best thing , is like the french telecom system is optimized for the well matched condition . they c phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . so they know that the weighting is good for the well matched , and so there 's everywhere the well matched 's s s performance is very good for the french telecom . phd e : yeah . professor g : mm - hmm . phd e : mm - hmm . phd b : t we are we may also have to do something similar @ @ . phd e : mm - hmm . professor d : well , our tradition here has always been to focus on the mismatched . phd b : um the professor d : cuz it 's more interesting . professor g : mu - my mine was it too , i mean . professor d : yeah . professor g : before i started working on this aurora . professor d : yeah . yeah . yeah . ok . phd f : carmen ? do you , uh phd h : well , i only say that the this is , a summary of the of all the vts experiments and say that the result in the last { comment } um , for italian the last experiment for italian , are bad . i make a mistake when i write . up at d i copy one of the bad result . phd b : so you phd h : and there . you know , this . um , well . if we put everything , we improve a lot u the spectral use of the vts but the final result are not still mmm , good like the wiener filter for example . i do n't know . maybe it 's @ @ { comment } it 's possible to to have the same result . phd b : that 's somewhere phd h : i do n't know exactly . mmm . because i have , mmm , { comment } worse result in medium mismatch and high mismatch . phd b : you s you have a better r yeah . you have some results that are good for the high mismatch . phd h : and yeah . i someti are more or less similar but but are worse . and still i do n't have the result for ti - digits . the program is training . maybe for this weekend i will have result ti - digits and i can complete that s like this . well . professor d : uh . right . phd h : one thing that i { comment } note are not here in this result but are speak are spoken before with sunil i i improve my result using clean lda filter . phd b : mm - hmm . professor d : mm - hmm . phd h : if i use , eh , the lda filter that are training with the noisy speech , that hurts the res my results . </s>
<s> what did professor g say about smoothing ? </s> professor g : and did did you try simply to smooth um to smooth the the t to to smooth stronger the the envelope ? phd e : um , no , i did not . professor g : because i mean , it should have a similar effect if you phd e : yeah . professor g : i mean , you you have now several stages of smoothing , so to say . you start up . as far as i remember you you smooth somehow the envelope , you smooth somehow the noise estimate , phd e : mm - hmm . mmm professor g : and and later on you smooth also this subtraction factor . phd e : uh , no , it 's it 's just the gain that 's smoothed actually phd b : uh , actually i d i do all the smoothing . phd e : but it 's smoothed professor g : ah . oh , it w it was you . phd b : yeah , yeah . phd e : uh yeah . professor g : yeah . phd e : yeah . no , in this case it 's just the gain . professor g : yeah . phd e : and professor g : uh - huh . phd e : but the way it 's done is that um , for low gain , there is this non nonlinear smoothing actually . for low gains um , i use the smoothed sm uh , smoothed version but for high gain @ @ { comment } it 's i do n't smooth . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor a : we 're going ? ok . sh - close your door on door on the way out ? grad b : ok . thanks . professor a : thanks . yeah . probably wan na get this other door , too . ok . so . um . what are we talking about today ? phd e : uh , well , first there are perhaps these uh meeting recorder digits that we tested . professor a : oh , yeah . that was kind of uh interesting . the both the uh the sri system and the oth and for one thing that that sure shows the difference between having a lot of uh training data or not , phd e : of data ? yeah . professor a : uh , the uh the best kind of number we have on the english uh on near microphone only is is uh three or four percent . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : and uh it 's significantly better than that , using fairly simple front - ends on on the uh uh , with the sri system . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : so i th i think that the uh but that 's that 's using uh a a pretty huge amount of data , mostly not digits , of course , but but then again well , yeah . in fact , mostly not digits for the actual training the h m ms whereas uh in this case we 're just using digits for training the h m phd e : yeah . right . professor a : did anybody mention about whether the the sri system is a is is doing the digits um the wor as a word model or as uh a sub s sub - phone states ? phd e : i guess it 's it 's uh allophone models , professor a : yeah . probably . phd e : so , well yeah . i think so , because it 's their very d huge , their huge system . professor a : yeah . phd e : and . but . so . there is one difference well , the sri system the result for the sri system that are represented here are with adaptation . so there is it 's their complete system and including on - line uh unsupervised adaptation . professor a : that 's true . phd e : and if you do n't use adaptation , the error rate is around fifty percent worse , i think , if i remember . yeah . professor a : it 's tha it 's that much , huh ? phd e : nnn . it 's yeah . it 's quite significant . professor a : oh . ok . phd e : yeah . professor a : still . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but but uh what what i think i 'd be interested to do given that , is that we we should uh take i guess that somebody 's gon na do this , right ? is to take some of these tandem things and feed it into the sri system , right ? phd e : yeah . professor a : yeah . phd e : we can do something like that . professor a : yeah . because phd e : yeah . but but i guess the main point is the data because uh i am not sure . our back - end is is fairly simple but until now , well , the attempts to improve it or have fail ah , well , i mean uh what chuck tried to to to do professor a : yeah , but he 's doing it with the same data , right ? i mean so to so there 's there 's there 's two things being affected . phd e : yeah . so it 's yeah . professor a : i mean . one is that that , you know , there 's something simple that 's wrong with the back - end . we 've been playing a number of states phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : uh i i do n't know if he got to the point of playing with the uh number of gaussians yet phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but but uh , uh , you know . but , yeah , so far he had n't gotten any big improvement , phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but that 's all with the same amount of data which is pretty small . phd e : yeah . professor a : and um . phd e : mmm . so , yeah , we could retrain some of these tandem on on huge professor a : well , you could do that , but i 'm saying even with it not with that part not retrained , just just using having the h m ms much better h m phd e : ah , yeah . just f for the hmm models . professor a : yeah . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : um . but just train those h m ms using different features , the features coming from our aurora stuff . phd e : yeah . yeah . but what would be interesting to see also is what what perhaps it 's not related , the amount of data but the um recording conditions . i do n't know . because it 's probably not a problem of noise , because our features are supposed to be robust to noise . professor a : well , yeah . phd e : it 's not a problem of channel , because there is um normalization with respect to the channel . so professor a : i i i 'm sorry . what what is the problem that you 're trying to explain ? phd e : the the fact that the result with the tandem and aurora system are uh so much worse . professor a : that the oh . so much worse ? oh . phd e : yeah . professor a : i uh but i 'm i 'm almost certain that it it i mean , that it has to do with the um amount of training data . phd e : it professor a : it it 's it 's orders of magnitude off . phd e : yeah but yeah . yeah but we train only on digits and it 's it 's a digit task , so . well . professor a : but but having a huge if if you look at what commercial places do , they use a huge amount of data . phd e : it mm - hmm . professor a : this is a modest amount of data . phd e : alright . yeah . professor a : so . i mean , ordinarily you would say `` well , given that you have enough occurrences of the digits , you can just train with digits rather than with , you know `` phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : but the thing is , if you have a huge in other words , do word models but if you have a huge amount of data then you 're going to have many occurrences of similar uh allophones . phd e : right . mmm . professor a : and that 's just a huge amount of training for it . phd e : yeah . professor a : so it 's um i i think it has to be that , because , as you say , this is , you know , this is near - microphone , phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : it 's really pretty clean data . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : um . now , some of it could be the fact that uh let 's see , in the in these multi - train things did we include noisy data in the training ? phd e : yeah . professor a : i mean , that could be hurting us actually , for the clean case . phd e : yeah . well , actually we see that the clean train for the aurora proposals are are better than the multi - train , professor a : it is if yeah . phd e : yeah . professor a : yeah . cuz this is clean data , and so that 's not too surprising . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but um . uh . so . phd e : well , o i guess what i meant is that well , let 's say if we if we add enough data to train on the um on the meeting recorder digits , i guess we could have better results than this . professor a : uh - huh . mm - hmm . phd e : and . what i meant is that perhaps we can learn something uh from this , what 's what 's wrong uh what what is different between ti - digits and these digits and professor a : what kind of numbers are we getting on ti - digits ? phd e : it 's point eight percent , so . professor a : oh . i see . phd e : four - fourier . professor a : so in the actual ti - digits database we 're getting point eight percent , phd e : yeah . yeah . professor a : and here we 're getting three or four three , let 's see , three for this ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : yeah . sure , but i mean , um point eight percent is something like double uh or triple what people have gotten who 've worked very hard at doing that . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : and and also , as you point out , there 's adaptation in these numbers also . so if you , you know , put the ad adap take the adaptation off , then it for the english - near you get something like two percent . and here you had , you know , something like three point four . and i could easily see that difference coming from this huge amount of data that it was trained on . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : so it 's phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : you know , i do n't think there 's anything magical here . phd e : yeah . professor a : it 's , you know , we used a simple htk system with a modest amount of data . and this is a a , you know , modern uh system uh has has a lot of nice points to it . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . professor a : um . so . i mean , the htk is an older htk , even . so . yeah it it 's not that surprising . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but to me it just it just meant a practical point that um if we want to publish results on digits that that people pay attention to we probably should uh cuz we 've had the problem before that you get show some nice improvement on something that 's that 's uh , uh it seems like too large a number , and uh uh people do n't necessarily take it so seriously . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : um . yeah . yeah . so the three point four percent for this uh is is uh so why is it it 's an interesting question though , still . why is why is it three point four percent for the d the digits recorded in this environment as opposed to the uh point eight percent for for for the original ti - digits database ? um . phd e : yeah . th that 's th that 's my point professor a : given given the same yeah . so ignore ignoring the the the sri system for a moment , phd e : i i i do n't i mm - hmm . professor a : just looking at the ti - di the uh tandem system , if we 're getting point eight percent , which , yes , it 's high . it 's , you know , it it 's not awfully high , phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but it 's , you know it 's it 's high . um . why is it uh four times as high , or more ? phd e : yeah , i guess . professor a : right ? i mean , there 's even though it 's close - miked there 's still there really is background noise . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : um . and uh i suspect when the ti - digits were recorded if somebody fumbled or said something wrong or something that they probably made them take it over . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : it was not i mean there was no attempt to have it be realistic in any in any sense at all . phd e : well . yeah . and acoustically , it 's q it 's i listened . it 's quite different . ti - digit is it 's very , very clean and it 's like studio recording professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : whereas these meeting recorder digits sometimes you have breath noise and mmm . professor a : right . yeah . so i think they were phd e : it 's not controlled at all , i mean . professor a : bless you . grad b : thanks . professor a : i yeah . i think it 's it 's so . yes . phd e : mm - hmm . but professor a : it 's i think it 's it 's the indication it 's harder . phd e : yeah . professor a : uh . yeah and again , you know , i that 's true either way . i mean so take a look at the uh um , the sri results . i mean , they 're much much better , but still you 're getting something like one point three percent for uh things that are same data as in t ti - digits the same same text . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : uh . and uh , i 'm sure the same same system would would get , you know , point point three or point four or something on the actual ti - digits . so this i think , on both systems the these digits are showing up as harder . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : which i find sort of interesting cause i think this is closer to uh i mean it 's still read . but i still think it 's much closer to to what what people actually face , um when they 're they 're dealing with people saying digits over the telephone . i mean . i do n't think uh i mean , i 'm sure they would n't release the numbers , but i do n't think that uh the uh the the companies that that do telephone speech get anything like point four percent on their digits . i 'm i 'm i 'm sure they get uh , i mean , for one thing people do phone up who do n't have uh uh middle america accents and it 's a we we it 's it 's it 's us . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : it has has many people who sound in many different ways . so . um . i mean . ok . that was that topic . what else we got ? did we end up giving up on on , any eurospeech submissions , phd e : but professor a : or ? i know thilo and dan ellis are are submitting something , but uh . phd e : yeah . i i guess e the only thing with these the meeting recorder and , well , so , i think , yeah i think we basically gave up . professor a : um . now , actually for the for the aur - uh phd e : but professor a : we do have stuff for aurora , right ? because because we have ano an extra month or something . phd e : yeah . yeah . yeah . so . yeah , for sure we will do something for the special session . professor a : yeah . well , that 's fine . so th so so we have a couple a couple little things on meeting recorder phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . professor a : and we have we do n't we do n't have to flood it with papers . we 're not trying to prove anything to anybody . so . that 's fine . um . anything else ? phd e : yeah . well . so . perhaps the point is that we 've been working on is , yeah , we have put the um the good vad in the system and it really makes a huge difference . um . so , yeah . i think , yeah , this is perhaps one of the reason why our system was not not the best , because with the new vad , it 's very the results are similar to the france telecom results and perhaps even better sometimes . um . so there is this point . uh . the problem is that it 's very big and we still have to think how to where to put it and um , professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : because it it well , this vad uh either some delay and we if we put it on the server side , it does n't work , because on the server side features you already have lda applied from the f from the terminal side and so you accumulate the delay so the vad should be before the lda which means perhaps on the terminal side and then smaller and professor a : so wha where did this good vad come from ? phd e : so . it 's um from ogi . so it 's the network trained it 's the network with the huge amounts on hidden of hidden units , and um nine input frames compared to the vad that was in the proposal which has a very small amount of hidden units and fewer inputs . professor a : this is the one they had originally ? phd e : yeah . professor a : oh . yeah , but they had to get rid of it because of the space , did n't they ? phd e : yeah . so . yeah . but the abso assumption is that we will be able to make a vad that 's small and that works fine . and . so we can professor a : well . so that 's a problem . yeah . phd e : yeah but nnn . professor a : but the other thing is uh to use a different vad entirely . i mean , uh i if if there 's a if if i i do n't know what the thinking was amongst the the the the etsi folk but um if everybody agreed sure let 's use this vad and take that out of there phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . they just want , apparently they do n't want to fix the vad because they think there is some interaction between feature extraction and and vad or frame dropping but they still want to just to give some um requirement for this vad because it 's it will not be part of they do n't want it to be part of the standard . so . so it must be at least uh somewhat fixed but not completely . so there just will be some requirements that are still not uh not yet uh ready i think . professor a : determined . i see . but i was thinking that that uh s `` sure , there may be some interaction , but i do n't think we need to be stuck on using our or ogi 's vad . we could use somebody else 's if it 's smaller or phd e : yeah . professor a : you know , as long as it did the job . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : so that 's good . phd e : uh . so there is this thing . there is um yeah . uh i designed a new a new filter because when i designed other filters with shorter delay from the lda filters , there was one filter with fif sixty millisecond delay and the other with ten milliseconds professor a : right . phd e : and uh hynek suggested that both could have sixty - five sixty - s i think it 's sixty - five . professor a : yeah . phd e : yeah . both should have sixty - five because professor a : you did n't gain anything , right ? phd e : yeah . and . so i did that and uh it 's running . so , let 's see what will happen . uh but the filter is of course closer to the reference filter . professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : mmm . um . yeah . i think professor a : so that means logically , in principle , it should be better . so probably it 'll be worse . or in the basic perverse nature uh of reality . yeah . ok . phd e : yeah . sure . grad c : yeah . phd e : yeah , and then we 've started to work with this of um voiced - unvoiced stuff . professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : and next week i think we will perhaps try to have um a new system with uh uh msg stream also see what what happens . so , something that 's similar to the proposal too , but with msg stream . professor a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : no , i w i begin to play with matlab and to found some parameter robust for voiced - unvoiced decision . but only to play . and we they we found that maybe w is a classical parameter , the sq the variance between the um fft of the signal and the small spectrum of time we after the um mel filter bank . professor a : uh - huh . phd d : and , well , is more or less robust . is good for clean speech . is quite good for noisy speech . professor a : huh ? mm - hmm . phd d : but um we must to have bigger statistic with timit , professor a : mm - hmm . phd d : and is not ready yet to use on , professor a : yeah . phd d : well , i do n't know . professor a : yeah . phd e : yeah . so , basically we wa want to look at something like the ex the ex excitation signal and professor a : right . phd d : mm - hmm . phd e : which are the variance of it and phd d : i have here . i have here for one signal , for one frame . professor a : yeah . uh - huh . phd d : the the mix of the two , noise and unnoise , and the signal is this . clean , and this noise . these are the two the mixed , the big signal is for clean . professor a : well , i 'm s uh there 's none of these axes are labeled , so i do n't know what this what 's this axis ? phd d : uh this is uh this axis is nnn , `` frame `` . professor a : frame . phd d : mm - hmm . professor a : and what 's th what this ? phd d : uh , this is uh energy , log - energy of the spectrum . of the this is the variance , the difference between the spectrum of the signal and fft of each frame of the signal and this mouth spectrum of time after the f may fit for the two , professor a : for this one . for the noi phd d : this big , to here , they are to signal . this is for clean and this is for noise . professor a : oh . there 's two things on the same graph . phd d : yeah . i do n't know . i i think that i have d another graph , but i 'm not sure . professor a : so w which is clean and which is noise ? phd e : yeah . i think the lower one is noise . phd d : the lower is noise and the height is clean . professor a : ok . so it 's harder to distinguish phd d : it 's height . professor a : but it but it g phd e : yeah . professor a : with noise of course but but phd d : oh . i must to have . pity , but i do n't have two different professor a : and presumably when there 's a a phd e : so this should the the the t voiced portions . professor a : uh - huh . phd d : yeah , it is the height is voiced portion . phd e : the p the peaks should be voiced portion . phd d : and this is the noise portion . professor a : uh - huh . phd d : and this is more or less like this . but i meant to have see @ @ two two the picture . professor a : yeah . yeah . phd d : this is , for example , for one frame . the the spectrum of the signal . and this is the small version of the spectrum after ml mel filter bank . professor a : yeah . and this is the difference ? phd d : and this is i do n't know . this is not the different . this is trying to obtain with lpc model the spectrum but using matlab without going factor and s professor a : no pre - emphasis ? yeah . phd d : not pre - emphasis . nothing . professor a : yeah so it 's does n't do too well there . phd d : and the i think that this is good . this is quite similar . this is this is another frame . ho how i obtained the envelope , this envelope , with the mel filter bank . professor a : right . so now i wonder i mean , do you want to i know you want to get at something orthogonal from what you get with the smooth spectrum um . but if you were to really try and get a voiced - unvoiced , do you do you want to totally ignore that ? i mean , do you do you i mean , clearly a a very big very big cues for voiced - unvoiced come from uh spectral slope and so on , right ? phd e : mm - hmm . yeah . well , this would be this would be perhaps an additional parameter , professor a : yeah . phd e : simply is n't professor a : i see . phd e : yeah . phd d : yeah because when did noise clear in these section is clear professor a : mm - hmm . phd d : if s @ @ val value is indicative that is a voice frame and it 's low values professor a : yeah . yeah . well , you probably want i mean , certainly if you want to do good voiced - unvoiced detection , you need a few features . each each feature is by itself not enough . but , you know , people look at at slope and uh first auto - correlation coefficient , divided by power . or or uh um there 's uh i guess we prob probably do n't have enough computation to do a simple pitch detector or something ? i mean with a pitch detector you could have a have a an estimate of of what the uh . or maybe you could you just do it going through the p fft 's figuring out some um probable um harmonic structure . right . and and uh . phd d : you have read up and you have a paper , the paper that you s give me yesterday . they say that yesterday they are some problem phd e : oh , yeah . but yeah , but it 's not it 's , yeah , it 's it 's another problem . phd d : and the is another problem . phd e : yeah um . yeah , there is th this fact actually . if you look at this um spectrum , professor a : yeah . phd e : what 's this again ? is it the mel - filters ? phd d : yeah like this . of kind like this . phd e : yeah . ok . so the envelope here is the output of the mel - filters professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : and what we clearly see is that in some cases , and it clearly appears here , and the the harmonics are resolved by the f well , there are still appear after mel - filtering , professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : and it happens for high pitched voice because the width of the lower frequency mel - filters is sometimes even smaller than the pitch . professor a : yeah . phd e : it 's around one hundred , one hundred and fifty hertz nnn . professor a : right . phd e : and so what happens is that this uh , add additional variability to this envelope and um professor a : yeah . phd e : so we were thinking to modify the mel - spectrum to have something that that 's smoother on low frequencies . professor a : that 's as as a separate thing . yeah . phd e : yeah . this is a separate thing . professor a : separate thing ? phd d : yeah . professor a : yeah . yeah . maybe so . um . yeah . so , what yeah . what i was talking about was just , starting with the fft you could you could uh do a very rough thing to estimate estimate uh pitch . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . professor a : and uh uh , given you know , given that , uh you could uh uh come up with some kind of estimate of how much of the low frequency energy was was explained by by uh uh those harmonics . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : uh . it 's uh a variant on what you 're s what you 're doing . the i mean , the the the mel does give a smooth thing . but as you say it 's not that smooth here . and and so if you if you just you know subtracted off uh your guess of the harmonics then something like this would end up with quite a bit lower energy in the first fifteen hundred hertz or so and and our first kilohertz , even . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : and um if was uh noisy , the proportion that it would go down would be if it was if it was unvoiced or something . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : so you oughta be able to pick out voiced segments . at least it should be another another cue . so . anyway . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : ok ? that 's what 's going on . uh . what 's up with you ? grad b : um our t i went to talk with uh mike jordan this this week professor a : mm - hmm . grad b : um and uh shared with him the ideas about um extending the larry saul work and um i asked him some questions about factorial h m so like later down the line when we 've come up with these these feature detectors , how do we how do we uh you know , uh model the time series that that happens um and and we talked a little bit about factorial h m ms and how um when you 're doing inference or w when you 're doing recognition , there 's like simple viterbi stuff that you can do for for these h m and the uh the great advantages that um a lot of times the factorial h m ms do n't um do n't over - alert the problem there they have a limited number of parameters and they focus directly on on uh the sub - problems at hand so you can imagine um five or so parallel um features um transitioning independently and then at the end you you uh couple these factorial h m ms with uh with uh undirected links um based on based on some more data . so he he seemed he seemed like really interested in in um in this and said said this is this is something very do - able and can learn a lot and um yeah , i 've just been continue reading um about certain things . professor a : mm - hmm . grad b : um thinking of maybe using um um m modulation spectrum stuff to um as features um also in the in the sub - bands professor a : mm - hmm . grad b : because it seems like the modulation um spectrum tells you a lot about the intelligibility of of certain um words and stuff so , um . yeah . just that 's about it . grad c : ok . and um so i 've been looking at avendano 's work and um uh i 'll try to write up in my next stat status report a nice description of what he 's doing , but it 's it 's an approach to deal with reverberation or that the aspect of his work that i 'm interested in the idea is that um normally an analysis frames are um too short to encompass reverberation effects um in full . you miss most of the reverberation tail in a ten millisecond window and so you you 'd like it to be that um the reverberation responses um simply convolved um in , but it 's not really with these ten millisecond frames cuz you j but if you take , say , a two millisecond um window i 'm sorry a two second window then in a room like this , most of the reverberation response is included in the window and the then it um then things are l more linear . it is it is more like the reverberation response is simply c convolved and um and you can use channel normalization techniques like uh in his thesis he 's assuming that the reverberation response is fixed . he just does um mean subtraction , which is like removing the dc component of the modulation spectrum and that 's supposed to d um deal uh deal pretty well with the um reverberation and um the neat thing is you ca n't take these two second frames and feed them to a speech recognizer um so he does this um method training trading the um the spectral resolution for time resolution and um come ca uh synthesizes a new representation which is with say ten second frames but a lower s um frequency resolution . so i do n't really know the theory . i guess it 's these are called `` time frequency representations `` and h he 's making the the time sh um finer grained and the frequency resolution um less fine grained . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : s so i 'm i guess my first stab actually in continuing his work is to um re - implement this this thing which um changes the time and frequency resolutions cuz he does n't have code for me . so that that 'll take some reading about the theory . i do n't really know the theory . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : oh , and um , another f first step is um , so the the way i want to extend his work is make it able to deal with a time varying reverberation response um and um we do n't really know how fast the um the reverberation response is varying the meeting recorder data um so um we we have this um block least squares um imp echo canceller implementation and um i want to try finding the the response , say , between a near mike and the table mike for someone using the echo canceller and looking at the echo canceller taps and then see how fast that varies from block to block . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : that should give an idea of how fast the reverberation response is changing . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : ok . um . i think we 're sort of done . phd e : yeah . professor a : so let 's read our digits and go home . grad c : um . s so um y you do i think you read some of the the zeros as o 's and some as zeros . professor a : yeah . grad c : is there a particular way we 're supposed to read them ? phd e : there are only zeros here . well . professor a : no . `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` and `` zero `` are two ways that we say that digit . phd e : eee . yeah . professor a : so it 's phd e : but professor a : so it 's i phd e : perhaps in the sheets there should be another sign for the if we want to the the guy to say `` o `` or professor a : no . i mean . i think people will do what they say . phd e : it 's professor a : it 's ok . phd e : yeah . professor a : i mean in digit recognition we 've done before , you have you have two pronunciations for that value , `` o `` and `` zero `` . grad c : alright . phd e : but it 's perhaps more difficult for the people to prepare the database then , if because here you only have zeros professor a : no , they just write phd e : and and people pronounce `` o `` or zero professor a : they they write down oh . or they write down zero a and they and they each have their own pronunciation . phd e : yeah but if the sh the sheet was prepared with a different sign for the `` o `` . professor a : but people would n't know what that wa i mean there is no convention for it . phd e : ok . yeah . professor a : see . i mean , you 'd have to tell them `` ok when we write this , say it tha `` , you know , and you just they just want people to read the digits as you ordinarily would phd e : mm - hmm . yeah . professor a : and and people say it different ways . grad c : ok . is this a change from the last batch of of um forms ? because in the last batch it was spelled out which one you should read . phd e : yeah , it was orthographic , so . professor a : yes . that 's right . it was it was spelled out , and they decided they wanted to get at more the way people would really say things . grad c : oh . ok . professor a : that 's also why they 're they 're bunched together in these different groups . so so it 's yeah . so it 's it 's everything 's fine . ok . actually , let me just s since since you brought it up , i was just it was hard not to be self - conscious about that when it after we since we just discussed it . but i realized that that um when i 'm talking on the phone , certainly , and and saying these numbers , i almost always say zero . and uh cuz because uh i it 's two syllables . it 's it 's more likely they 'll understand what i said . so that that that 's the habit i 'm in , but some people say `` o `` and grad b : yeah i normally say `` o `` cuz it 's easier to say . professor a : yeah it 's shorter . yeah . so it 's so . so uh . now , do n't think about it . grad b : oh , no ! </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about meeting recorder digits </s> professor a : we 're going ? ok . sh - close your door on door on the way out ? grad b : ok . thanks . professor a : thanks . yeah . probably wan na get this other door , too . ok . so . um . what are we talking about today ? phd e : uh , well , first there are perhaps these uh meeting recorder digits that we tested . professor a : oh , yeah . that was kind of uh interesting . the both the uh the sri system and the oth and for one thing that that sure shows the difference between having a lot of uh training data or not , phd e : of data ? yeah . professor a : uh , the uh the best kind of number we have on the english uh on near microphone only is is uh three or four percent . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : and uh it 's significantly better than that , using fairly simple front - ends on on the uh uh , with the sri system . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : so i th i think that the uh but that 's that 's using uh a a pretty huge amount of data , mostly not digits , of course , but but then again well , yeah . in fact , mostly not digits for the actual training the h m ms whereas uh in this case we 're just using digits for training the h m phd e : yeah . right . professor a : did anybody mention about whether the the sri system is a is is doing the digits um the wor as a word model or as uh a sub s sub - phone states ? phd e : i guess it 's it 's uh allophone models , professor a : yeah . probably . phd e : so , well yeah . i think so , because it 's their very d huge , their huge system . professor a : yeah . phd e : and . but . so . there is one difference well , the sri system the result for the sri system that are represented here are with adaptation . so there is it 's their complete system and including on - line uh unsupervised adaptation . professor a : that 's true . phd e : and if you do n't use adaptation , the error rate is around fifty percent worse , i think , if i remember . yeah . professor a : it 's tha it 's that much , huh ? phd e : nnn . it 's yeah . it 's quite significant . professor a : oh . ok . phd e : yeah . professor a : still . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but but uh what what i think i 'd be interested to do given that , is that we we should uh take i guess that somebody 's gon na do this , right ? is to take some of these tandem things and feed it into the sri system , right ? phd e : yeah . professor a : yeah . phd e : we can do something like that . professor a : yeah . because phd e : yeah . but but i guess the main point is the data because uh i am not sure . our back - end is is fairly simple but until now , well , the attempts to improve it or have fail ah , well , i mean uh what chuck tried to to to do professor a : yeah , but he 's doing it with the same data , right ? i mean so to so there 's there 's there 's two things being affected . phd e : yeah . so it 's yeah . professor a : i mean . one is that that , you know , there 's something simple that 's wrong with the back - end . we 've been playing a number of states phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : uh i i do n't know if he got to the point of playing with the uh number of gaussians yet phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but but uh , uh , you know . but , yeah , so far he had n't gotten any big improvement , phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but that 's all with the same amount of data which is pretty small . phd e : yeah . professor a : and um . phd e : mmm . so , yeah , we could retrain some of these tandem on on huge professor a : well , you could do that , but i 'm saying even with it not with that part not retrained , just just using having the h m ms much better h m phd e : ah , yeah . just f for the hmm models . professor a : yeah . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : um . but just train those h m ms using different features , the features coming from our aurora stuff . phd e : yeah . yeah . but what would be interesting to see also is what what perhaps it 's not related , the amount of data but the um recording conditions . i do n't know . because it 's probably not a problem of noise , because our features are supposed to be robust to noise . professor a : well , yeah . phd e : it 's not a problem of channel , because there is um normalization with respect to the channel . so professor a : i i i 'm sorry . what what is the problem that you 're trying to explain ? phd e : the the fact that the result with the tandem and aurora system are uh so much worse . professor a : that the oh . so much worse ? oh . phd e : yeah . professor a : i uh but i 'm i 'm almost certain that it it i mean , that it has to do with the um amount of training data . phd e : it professor a : it it 's it 's orders of magnitude off . phd e : yeah but yeah . yeah but we train only on digits and it 's it 's a digit task , so . well . professor a : but but having a huge if if you look at what commercial places do , they use a huge amount of data . phd e : it mm - hmm . professor a : this is a modest amount of data . phd e : alright . yeah . professor a : so . i mean , ordinarily you would say `` well , given that you have enough occurrences of the digits , you can just train with digits rather than with , you know `` phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : but the thing is , if you have a huge in other words , do word models but if you have a huge amount of data then you 're going to have many occurrences of similar uh allophones . phd e : right . mmm . professor a : and that 's just a huge amount of training for it . phd e : yeah . professor a : so it 's um i i think it has to be that , because , as you say , this is , you know , this is near - microphone , phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : it 's really pretty clean data . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : um . now , some of it could be the fact that uh let 's see , in the in these multi - train things did we include noisy data in the training ? phd e : yeah . professor a : i mean , that could be hurting us actually , for the clean case . phd e : yeah . well , actually we see that the clean train for the aurora proposals are are better than the multi - train , professor a : it is if yeah . phd e : yeah . professor a : yeah . cuz this is clean data , and so that 's not too surprising . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but um . uh . so . phd e : well , o i guess what i meant is that well , let 's say if we if we add enough data to train on the um on the meeting recorder digits , i guess we could have better results than this . professor a : uh - huh . mm - hmm . phd e : and . what i meant is that perhaps we can learn something uh from this , what 's what 's wrong uh what what is different between ti - digits and these digits and professor a : what kind of numbers are we getting on ti - digits ? phd e : it 's point eight percent , so . professor a : oh . i see . phd e : four - fourier . professor a : so in the actual ti - digits database we 're getting point eight percent , phd e : yeah . yeah . professor a : and here we 're getting three or four three , let 's see , three for this ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : yeah . sure , but i mean , um point eight percent is something like double uh or triple what people have gotten who 've worked very hard at doing that . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : and and also , as you point out , there 's adaptation in these numbers also . so if you , you know , put the ad adap take the adaptation off , then it for the english - near you get something like two percent . and here you had , you know , something like three point four . and i could easily see that difference coming from this huge amount of data that it was trained on . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : so it 's phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : you know , i do n't think there 's anything magical here . phd e : yeah . professor a : it 's , you know , we used a simple htk system with a modest amount of data . and this is a a , you know , modern uh system uh has has a lot of nice points to it . phd e : yeah . mm - hmm . professor a : um . so . i mean , the htk is an older htk , even . so . yeah it it 's not that surprising . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but to me it just it just meant a practical point that um if we want to publish results on digits that that people pay attention to we probably should uh cuz we 've had the problem before that you get show some nice improvement on something that 's that 's uh , uh it seems like too large a number , and uh uh people do n't necessarily take it so seriously . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : um . yeah . yeah . so the three point four percent for this uh is is uh so why is it it 's an interesting question though , still . why is why is it three point four percent for the d the digits recorded in this environment as opposed to the uh point eight percent for for for the original ti - digits database ? um . phd e : yeah . th that 's th that 's my point professor a : given given the same yeah . so ignore ignoring the the the sri system for a moment , phd e : i i i do n't i mm - hmm . professor a : just looking at the ti - di the uh tandem system , if we 're getting point eight percent , which , yes , it 's high . it 's , you know , it it 's not awfully high , phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but it 's , you know it 's it 's high . um . why is it uh four times as high , or more ? phd e : yeah , i guess . professor a : right ? i mean , there 's even though it 's close - miked there 's still there really is background noise . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : um . and uh i suspect when the ti - digits were recorded if somebody fumbled or said something wrong or something that they probably made them take it over . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : it was not i mean there was no attempt to have it be realistic in any in any sense at all . phd e : well . yeah . and acoustically , it 's q it 's i listened . it 's quite different . ti - digit is it 's very , very clean and it 's like studio recording professor a : mm - hmm . phd e : whereas these meeting recorder digits sometimes you have breath noise and mmm . professor a : right . yeah . so i think they were phd e : it 's not controlled at all , i mean . professor a : bless you . grad b : thanks . professor a : i yeah . i think it 's it 's so . yes . phd e : mm - hmm . but professor a : it 's i think it 's it 's the indication it 's harder . phd e : yeah . professor a : uh . yeah and again , you know , i that 's true either way . i mean so take a look at the uh um , the sri results . i mean , they 're much much better , but still you 're getting something like one point three percent for uh things that are same data as in t ti - digits the same same text . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : uh . and uh , i 'm sure the same same system would would get , you know , point point three or point four or something on the actual ti - digits . so this i think , on both systems the these digits are showing up as harder . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : which i find sort of interesting cause i think this is closer to uh i mean it 's still read . but i still think it 's much closer to to what what people actually face , um when they 're they 're dealing with people saying digits over the telephone . i mean . i do n't think uh i mean , i 'm sure they would n't release the numbers , but i do n't think that uh the uh the the companies that that do telephone speech get anything like point four percent on their digits . i 'm i 'm i 'm sure they get uh , i mean , for one thing people do phone up who do n't have uh uh middle america accents and it 's a we we it 's it 's it 's us . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about the back-end ? </s> professor a : so i th i think that the uh but that 's that 's using uh a a pretty huge amount of data , mostly not digits , of course , but but then again well , yeah . in fact , mostly not digits for the actual training the h m ms whereas uh in this case we 're just using digits for training the h m phd e : yeah . right . professor a : did anybody mention about whether the the sri system is a is is doing the digits um the wor as a word model or as uh a sub s sub - phone states ? phd e : i guess it 's it 's uh allophone models , professor a : yeah . probably . phd e : so , well yeah . i think so , because it 's their very d huge , their huge system . professor a : yeah . phd e : and . but . so . there is one difference well , the sri system the result for the sri system that are represented here are with adaptation . so there is it 's their complete system and including on - line uh unsupervised adaptation . professor a : that 's true . phd e : and if you do n't use adaptation , the error rate is around fifty percent worse , i think , if i remember . yeah . professor a : it 's tha it 's that much , huh ? phd e : nnn . it 's yeah . it 's quite significant . professor a : oh . ok . phd e : yeah . professor a : still . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but but uh what what i think i 'd be interested to do given that , is that we we should uh take i guess that somebody 's gon na do this , right ? is to take some of these tandem things and feed it into the sri system , right ? phd e : yeah . professor a : yeah . phd e : we can do something like that . professor a : yeah . because phd e : yeah . but but i guess the main point is the data because uh i am not sure . our back - end is is fairly simple but until now , well , the attempts to improve it or have fail ah , well , i mean uh what chuck tried to to to do professor a : yeah , but he 's doing it with the same data , right ? i mean so to so there 's there 's there 's two things being affected . phd e : yeah . so it 's yeah . professor a : i mean . one is that that , you know , there 's something simple that 's wrong with the back - end . we 've been playing a number of states phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : uh i i do n't know if he got to the point of playing with the uh number of gaussians yet phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but but uh , uh , you know . but , yeah , so far he had n't gotten any big improvement , phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but that 's all with the same amount of data which is pretty small . phd e : yeah . professor a : and um . phd e : mmm . so , yeah , we could retrain some of these tandem on on huge professor a : well , you could do that , but i 'm saying even with it not with that part not retrained , just just using having the h m ms much better h m phd e : ah , yeah . just f for the hmm models . </s>
<s> what did phd e think about the noise ? </s> phd e : yeah . but what would be interesting to see also is what what perhaps it 's not related , the amount of data but the um recording conditions . i do n't know . because it 's probably not a problem of noise , because our features are supposed to be robust to noise . professor a : well , yeah . phd e : it 's not a problem of channel , because there is um normalization with respect to the channel . so professor a : i i i 'm sorry . what what is the problem that you 're trying to explain ? phd e : the the fact that the result with the tandem and aurora system are uh so much worse . professor a : that the oh . so much worse ? oh . phd e : yeah . professor a : i uh but i 'm i 'm almost certain that it it i mean , that it has to do with the um amount of training data . phd e : it professor a : it it 's it 's orders of magnitude off . phd e : yeah but yeah . yeah but we train only on digits and it 's it 's a digit task , so . well . professor a : but but having a huge if if you look at what commercial places do , they use a huge amount of data . phd e : it mm - hmm . professor a : this is a modest amount of data . phd e : alright . yeah . professor a : so . i mean , ordinarily you would say `` well , given that you have enough occurrences of the digits , you can just train with digits rather than with , you know `` phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor a : but the thing is , if you have a huge in other words , do word models but if you have a huge amount of data then you 're going to have many occurrences of similar uh allophones . phd e : right . mmm . professor a : and that 's just a huge amount of training for it . phd e : yeah . professor a : so it 's um i i think it has to be that , because , as you say , this is , you know , this is near - microphone , phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : it 's really pretty clean data . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : um . now , some of it could be the fact that uh let 's see , in the in these multi - train things did we include noisy data in the training ? phd e : yeah . professor a : i mean , that could be hurting us actually , for the clean case . phd e : yeah . well , actually we see that the clean train for the aurora proposals are are better than the multi - train , professor a : it is if yeah . phd e : yeah . professor a : yeah . cuz this is clean data , and so that 's not too surprising . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : but um . uh . so . phd e : well , o i guess what i meant is that well , let 's say if we if we add enough data to train on the um on the meeting recorder digits , i guess we could have better results than this . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on time series , reverberation and pronouncing zero </s> professor a : ok ? that 's what 's going on . uh . what 's up with you ? grad b : um our t i went to talk with uh mike jordan this this week professor a : mm - hmm . grad b : um and uh shared with him the ideas about um extending the larry saul work and um i asked him some questions about factorial h m so like later down the line when we 've come up with these these feature detectors , how do we how do we uh you know , uh model the time series that that happens um and and we talked a little bit about factorial h m ms and how um when you 're doing inference or w when you 're doing recognition , there 's like simple viterbi stuff that you can do for for these h m and the uh the great advantages that um a lot of times the factorial h m ms do n't um do n't over - alert the problem there they have a limited number of parameters and they focus directly on on uh the sub - problems at hand so you can imagine um five or so parallel um features um transitioning independently and then at the end you you uh couple these factorial h m ms with uh with uh undirected links um based on based on some more data . so he he seemed he seemed like really interested in in um in this and said said this is this is something very do - able and can learn a lot and um yeah , i 've just been continue reading um about certain things . professor a : mm - hmm . grad b : um thinking of maybe using um um m modulation spectrum stuff to um as features um also in the in the sub - bands professor a : mm - hmm . grad b : because it seems like the modulation um spectrum tells you a lot about the intelligibility of of certain um words and stuff so , um . yeah . just that 's about it . grad c : ok . and um so i 've been looking at avendano 's work and um uh i 'll try to write up in my next stat status report a nice description of what he 's doing , but it 's it 's an approach to deal with reverberation or that the aspect of his work that i 'm interested in the idea is that um normally an analysis frames are um too short to encompass reverberation effects um in full . you miss most of the reverberation tail in a ten millisecond window and so you you 'd like it to be that um the reverberation responses um simply convolved um in , but it 's not really with these ten millisecond frames cuz you j but if you take , say , a two millisecond um window i 'm sorry a two second window then in a room like this , most of the reverberation response is included in the window and the then it um then things are l more linear . it is it is more like the reverberation response is simply c convolved and um and you can use channel normalization techniques like uh in his thesis he 's assuming that the reverberation response is fixed . he just does um mean subtraction , which is like removing the dc component of the modulation spectrum and that 's supposed to d um deal uh deal pretty well with the um reverberation and um the neat thing is you ca n't take these two second frames and feed them to a speech recognizer um so he does this um method training trading the um the spectral resolution for time resolution and um come ca uh synthesizes a new representation which is with say ten second frames but a lower s um frequency resolution . so i do n't really know the theory . i guess it 's these are called `` time frequency representations `` and h he 's making the the time sh um finer grained and the frequency resolution um less fine grained . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : s so i 'm i guess my first stab actually in continuing his work is to um re - implement this this thing which um changes the time and frequency resolutions cuz he does n't have code for me . so that that 'll take some reading about the theory . i do n't really know the theory . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : oh , and um , another f first step is um , so the the way i want to extend his work is make it able to deal with a time varying reverberation response um and um we do n't really know how fast the um the reverberation response is varying the meeting recorder data um so um we we have this um block least squares um imp echo canceller implementation and um i want to try finding the the response , say , between a near mike and the table mike for someone using the echo canceller and looking at the echo canceller taps and then see how fast that varies from block to block . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : that should give an idea of how fast the reverberation response is changing . phd e : mm - hmm . professor a : ok . um . i think we 're sort of done . phd e : yeah . professor a : so let 's read our digits and go home . grad c : um . s so um y you do i think you read some of the the zeros as o 's and some as zeros . professor a : yeah . grad c : is there a particular way we 're supposed to read them ? phd e : there are only zeros here . well . professor a : no . `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` and `` zero `` are two ways that we say that digit . phd e : eee . yeah . professor a : so it 's phd e : but professor a : so it 's i phd e : perhaps in the sheets there should be another sign for the if we want to the the guy to say `` o `` or professor a : no . i mean . i think people will do what they say . phd e : it 's professor a : it 's ok . phd e : yeah . professor a : i mean in digit recognition we 've done before , you have you have two pronunciations for that value , `` o `` and `` zero `` . grad c : alright . phd e : but it 's perhaps more difficult for the people to prepare the database then , if because here you only have zeros professor a : no , they just write phd e : and and people pronounce `` o `` or zero professor a : they they write down oh . or they write down zero a and they and they each have their own pronunciation . phd e : yeah but if the sh the sheet was prepared with a different sign for the `` o `` . professor a : but people would n't know what that wa i mean there is no convention for it . phd e : ok . yeah . professor a : see . i mean , you 'd have to tell them `` ok when we write this , say it tha `` , you know , and you just they just want people to read the digits as you ordinarily would phd e : mm - hmm . yeah . professor a : and and people say it different ways . grad c : ok . is this a change from the last batch of of um forms ? because in the last batch it was spelled out which one you should read . phd e : yeah , it was orthographic , so . professor a : yes . that 's right . it was it was spelled out , and they decided they wanted to get at more the way people would really say things . grad c : oh . ok . professor a : that 's also why they 're they 're bunched together in these different groups . so so it 's yeah . so it 's it 's everything 's fine . ok . actually , let me just s since since you brought it up , i was just it was hard not to be self - conscious about that when it after we since we just discussed it . but i realized that that um when i 'm talking on the phone , certainly , and and saying these numbers , i almost always say zero . and uh cuz because uh i it 's two syllables . it 's it 's more likely they 'll understand what i said . so that that that 's the habit i 'm in , but some people say `` o `` and grad b : yeah i normally say `` o `` cuz it 's easier to say . professor a : yeah it 's shorter . yeah . so it 's so . so uh . now , do n't think about it . grad b : oh , no ! </s>
<s> what did grad b think about time series ? </s> grad b : um and uh shared with him the ideas about um extending the larry saul work and um i asked him some questions about factorial h m so like later down the line when we 've come up with these these feature detectors , how do we how do we uh you know , uh model the time series that that happens um and and we talked a little bit about factorial h m ms and how um when you 're doing inference or w when you 're doing recognition , there 's like simple viterbi stuff that you can do for for these h m and the uh the great advantages that um a lot of times the factorial h m ms do n't um do n't over - alert the problem there they have a limited number of parameters and they focus directly on on uh the sub - problems at hand so you can imagine um five or so parallel um features um transitioning independently and then at the end you you uh couple these factorial h m ms with uh with uh undirected links um based on based on some more data . so he he seemed he seemed like really interested in in um in this and said said this is this is something very do - able and can learn a lot and um yeah , i 've just been continue reading um about certain things . professor a : mm - hmm . grad b : um thinking of maybe using um um m modulation spectrum stuff to um as features um also in the in the sub - bands professor a : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about pronouncing zero ? </s> phd e : there are only zeros here . well . professor a : no . `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` `` o `` and `` zero `` are two ways that we say that digit . phd e : eee . yeah . professor a : so it 's phd e : but professor a : so it 's i phd e : perhaps in the sheets there should be another sign for the if we want to the the guy to say `` o `` or professor a : no . i mean . i think people will do what they say . phd e : it 's professor a : it 's ok . phd e : yeah . professor a : i mean in digit recognition we 've done before , you have you have two pronunciations for that value , `` o `` and `` zero `` . grad c : alright . phd e : but it 's perhaps more difficult for the people to prepare the database then , if because here you only have zeros professor a : no , they just write phd e : and and people pronounce `` o `` or zero professor a : they they write down oh . or they write down zero a and they and they each have their own pronunciation . phd e : yeah but if the sh the sheet was prepared with a different sign for the `` o `` . professor a : but people would n't know what that wa i mean there is no convention for it . phd e : ok . yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd a : it 's not very significant . professor b : uh , channel one . yes . grad d : channel three . phd f : mm - hmm . grad d : channel three . channel three . alright . professor b : ok , did you solve speech recognition last week ? grad e : almost . professor b : alright ! let 's do image processing . phd c : yes , again . phd a : great . phd c : we did it again , morgan . professor b : alright ! grad e : doo - doop , doo - doo . phd a : what 's wrong with ? professor b : ok . it 's april fifth . actually , hynek should be getting back in town shortly if he is n't already . phd c : is he gon na come here ? professor b : uh . well , we 'll drag him here . i know where he is . phd c : so when you said `` in town `` , you mean oregon . professor b : u u u u uh , i meant , you know , this end of the world , yeah , is really what i meant , grad e : doo , doo - doo . professor b : uh , cuz he 's been in europe . grad e : doo - doo . phd c : i have something just fairly brief to report on . um , i did some experim uh , uh , just a few more experiments before i had to , uh , go away for the w well , that week . professor b : great ! phd c : was it last week or whenever ? um , so what i was started playing with was the th again , this is the htk back - end . and , um , i was curious because the way that they train up the models , they go through about four sort of rounds of of training . and in the first round they do uh , i think it 's three iterations , and for the last three rounds e e they do seven iterations of re - estimation in each of those three . and so , you know , that 's part of what takes so long to train the the the back - end for this . professor b : i 'm sorry , i did n't quite get that . there 's there 's four and there 's seven and i i 'm sorry . phd c : yeah . uh , maybe i should write it on the board . so , there 's four rounds of training . um , i g i g i guess you could say iterations . the first one is three , then seven , seven , and seven . and what these numbers refer to is the number of times that the , uh , hmm re - estimation is run . it 's this program called h e professor b : but in htk , what 's the difference between , uh , a an inner loop and an outer loop in these iterations ? phd c : ok . so what happens is , um , at each one of these points , you increase the number of gaussians in the model . professor b : yeah . oh , right ! this was the mix up stuff . phd c : yeah . the mix up . professor b : that 's right . phd c : right . professor b : i remember now . phd c : and so , in the final one here , you end up with , uh for all of the the digit words , you end up with , uh , three mixtures per state , professor b : yeah . phd c : eh , in the final thing . so i had done some experiments where i was i i want to play with the number of mixtures . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : but , um , uh , i wanted to first test to see if we actually need to do this many iterations early on . grad e : uh , one , two , professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : and so , um , i i ran a couple of experiments where i reduced that to l to be three , two , two , uh , five , i think , and i got almost the exact same results . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : and but it runs much much faster . so , um , i i think m it only took something like , uh , three or four hours to do the full training , professor b : as opposed to ? phd f : good . phd c : as opposed to wh what , sixteen hours or something like that ? i mean , it takes you have to do an overnight basically , the way it is set up now . phd f : yeah . it depends . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : so , uh , even we do n't do anything else , doing something like this could allow us to turn experiments around a lot faster . professor b : and then when you have your final thing , do a full one , so it 's phd c : and when you have your final thing , we go back to this . phd f : yeah . phd c : so , um , and it 's a real simple change to make . i mean , it 's like one little text file you edit and change those numbers , and you do n't do anything else . phd f : oh , this is a phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : and then you just run . so it 's a very simple change to make and it does n't seem to hurt all that much . phd a : so you you run with three , two , two , five ? that 's a phd c : so i uh , i i have to look to see what the exact numbers were . phd a : yeah . phd c : i i thought was , like , three , two , two , five , phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : but i i 'll i 'll double check . it was over a week ago that i did it , phd a : ok . mm - hmm . phd c : so i ca n't remember exactly . but , uh professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : um , but it 's so much faster . i it makes a big difference . so we could do a lot more experiments and throw a lot more stuff in there . phd f : yeah . professor b : that 's great . phd c : um . oh , the other thing that i did was , um , i compiled the htk stuff for the linux boxes . so we have this big thing that we got from ibm , which is a five - processor machine . really fast , but it 's running linux . so , you can now run your experiments on that machine and you can run five at a time and it runs , uh , as fast as , you know , uh , five different machines . phd a : mm - hmm . phd f : mm - hmm . phd c : so , um , i 've forgotten now what the name of that machine is but i can i can send email around about it . phd a : yeah . phd c : and so we 've got it now htk 's compiled for both the linux and for , um , the sparcs . um , you have to make you have to make sure that in your dot cshrc , um , it detects whether you 're running on the linux or a a sparc and points to the right executables . uh , and you may not have had that in your dot cshrc before , if you were always just running the sparc . so , um , phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : uh , i can i can tell you exactly what you need to do to get all of that to work . but it 'll it really increases what we can run on . grad e : hmm . cool . phd c : so , together with the fact that we 've got these faster linux boxes and that it takes less time to do these , um , we should be able to crank through a lot more experiments . phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : so after i did that , then what i wanted to do { comment } was try increasing the number of mixtures , just to see , um see how how that affects performance . phd a : yeah . professor b : yeah . in fact , you could do something like keep exactly the same procedure and then add a fifth thing onto it phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : that had more . phd c : exactly . professor b : yeah . phd c : right . right . grad e : so at at the middle o where the arrows are showing , that 's you 're adding one more mixture per state , phd c : uh - huh . uh , grad e : or ? phd c : let 's see , uh . it goes from this uh , try to go it backwards this at this point it 's two mixtures per state . so this just adds one . except that , uh , actually for the silence model , it 's six mixtures per state . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : uh , so it goes to two . um . and i think what happens here is professor b : might be between , uh , shared , uh shared variances or something , phd c : yeah . i think that 's what it is . professor b : or phd c : uh , yeah . it 's , uh shoot . i i i ca n't remember now what happens at that first one . uh , i have to look it up and see . grad e : oh , ok . phd c : um , there because they start off with , uh , an initial model which is just this global model , and then they split it to the individuals . and so , it may be that that 's what 's happening here . i i i have to look it up and see . i i do n't exactly remember . so . that 's it . professor b : alright . so what else ? phd a : um . yeah . there was a conference call this tuesday . um . i do n't know yet the what happened tuesday , but the points that they were supposed to discuss is still , uh , things like the weights , uh professor b : oh , this is a conference call for , uh , uh , aurora participant sort of thing . grad e : for phd a : yeah . yeah . professor b : i see . do you know who was who was since we were n't in on it , uh , do you know who was in from ogi ? was was was hynek involved or was it sunil phd a : i have no idea . professor b : or ? phd a : mmm , i just professor b : oh , you do n't know . ok . phd a : yeah . professor b : alright . phd a : um , yeah . so the points were the the weights how to weight the different error rates that are obtained from different language and and conditions . um , it 's not clear that they will keep the same kind of weighting . right now it 's a weighting on on improvement . professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : some people are arguing that it would be better to have weights on uh well , to to combine error rates before computing improvement . uh , and the fact is that for right now for the english , they have weights they they combine error rates , but for the other languages they combine improvement . so it 's not very consistent . um professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : yeah . the , um yeah . and so well , this is a point . and right now actually there is a thing also , uh , that happens with the current weight is that a very non - significant improvement on the well - matched case result in huge differences in in the final number . professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : and so , perhaps they will change the weights to yeah . phd c : how should that be done ? i mean , it it seems like there 's a simple way phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : uh , this seems like an obvious mistake or something . professor b : well , i mean , the fact that it 's inconsistent is an obvious mistake . phd c : th - they 're professor b : but the but , um , the other thing i do n't know i have n't thought it through , but one one would think that each it it 's like if you say what 's the what 's the best way to do an average , an arithmetic average or a geometric average ? phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : it depends what you wan na show . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : each each one is gon na have a different characteristic . phd a : yeah . professor b : so phd c : well , it seems like they should do , like , the percentage improvement or something , rather than the absolute improvement . phd a : tha - that 's what they do . professor b : well , they are doing that . phd a : yeah . professor b : no , that is relative . but the question is , do you average the relative improvements or do you average the error rates and take the relative improvement maybe of that ? phd a : yeah . yeah . professor b : and the thing is it 's not just a pure average because there are these weightings . it 's a weighted average . um . phd a : yeah . and so when you average the the relative improvement it tends to to give a lot of of , um , importance to the well - matched case because the baseline is already very good and , um , i it 's phd c : why do n't they not look at improvements but just look at your av your scores ? you know , figure out how to combine the scores phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : with a weight or whatever , and then give you a score here 's your score . and then they can do the same thing for the baseline system and here 's its score . and then you can look at phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : well , that 's what he 's seeing as one of the things they could do . phd a : yeah . professor b : it 's just when you when you get all done , i think that they pro i m i i was n't there but i think they started off this process with the notion that you should be significantly better than the previous standard . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and , um , so they said `` how much is significantly better ? what do you ? `` and and so they said `` well , you know , you should have half the errors , `` or something , `` that you had before `` . phd a : mm - hmm . hmm . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : yeah . professor b : so it 's , uh , but it does seem like i i it does seem like it 's more logical to combine them first and then do the phd a : combine error rates and then professor b : yeah . phd a : yeah . well professor b : yeah . phd a : but there is this this is this still this problem of weights . when when you combine error rate it tends to give more importance to the difficult cases , and some people think that professor b : oh , yeah ? phd a : well , they have different , um , opinions about this . some people think that it 's more important to look at to have ten percent imp relative improvement on well - matched case than to have fifty percent on the m mismatched , and other people think that it 's more important to improve a lot on the mismatch and so , bu phd c : it sounds like they do n't really have a good idea about what the final application is gon na be . phd a : l de fff ! mmm . professor b : well , you know , the the thing is that if you look at the numbers on the on the more difficult cases , um , if you really believe that was gon na be the predominant use , none of this would be good enough . phd a : yeah . mmm . yeah . professor b : nothing anybody 's phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : whereas you sort of with some reasonable error recovery could imagine in the better cases that these these systems working . so , um , i think the hope would be that it would uh , it would work well for the good cases and , uh , it would have reasonable reas soft degradation as you got to worse and worse conditions . um . phd c : yeah . i i guess what i 'm i mean , i i was thinking about it in terms of , if i were building the final product and i was gon na test to see which front - end i 'd i wanted to use , i would try to weight things depending on the exact environment that i was gon na be using the system in . professor b : but but no . phd c : if i professor b : well , no well , no . i mean , it is n't the operating theater . i mean , they don they they do n't they do n't really know , i think . phd c : yeah . professor b : i mean , i th phd c : so if if they do n't know , does n't that suggest the way for them to go ? uh , you assume everything 's equal . i mean , y y i mean , you professor b : well , i mean , i i think one thing to do is to just not rely on a single number to maybe have two or three numbers , phd c : yeah . professor b : you know , phd c : right . professor b : and and and say here 's how much you , uh you improve the , uh the the relatively clean case and here 's or or well - matched case , and here 's how here 's how much you , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : uh phd c : so not so not try to combine them . professor b : yeah . uh , actually it 's true . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh , i had forgotten this , uh , but , uh , well - matched is not actually clean . what it is is just that , u uh , the training and testing are similar . phd c : the training and testing . professor b : so , i guess what you would do in practice is you 'd try to get as many , uh , examples of similar sort of stuff as you could , and then , phd c : yeah . professor b : uh so the argument for that being the the the more important thing , is that you 're gon na try and do that , but you wan na see how badly it deviates from that when when when the , uh it 's a little different . phd c : so so you should weight those other conditions v very you know , really small . professor b : but no . that 's a that 's a that 's an arg phd c : i mean , that 's more of an information kind of thing . professor b : that 's an ar well , that 's an argument for it , but let me give you the opposite argument . the opposite argument is you 're never really gon na have a good sample of all these different things . phd c : uh - huh . professor b : i mean , are you gon na have w uh , uh , examples with the windows open , half open , full open ? going seventy , sixty , fifty , forty miles an hour ? on what kind of roads ? phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : with what passing you ? with uh , i mean , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : i i i think that you could make the opposite argument that the well - matched case is a fantasy . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : you know , so , grad e : uh - huh . professor b : i think the thing is is that if you look at the well - matched case versus the po you know , the the medium and the and the fo and then the mismatched case , um , we 're seeing really , really big differences in performance . right ? and and y you would n't like that to be the case . you would n't like that as soon as you step outside you know , a lot of the the cases it 's is phd c : well , that 'll teach them to roll their window up . professor b : i mean , in these cases , if you go from the the , uh i mean , i do n't remember the numbers right off , but if you if you go from the well - matched case to the medium , it 's not an enormous difference in the in the the training - testing situation , and and and it 's a really big performance drop . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : you know , so , um yeah , i mean the reference one , for instance this is back old on , uh on italian uh , was like six percent error for the well - matched and eighteen for the medium - matched and sixty for the for highly - mismatched . uh , and , you know , with these other systems we we helped it out quite a bit , but still there 's there 's something like a factor of two or something between well - matched and medium - matched . and so i think that if what you 're if the goal of this is to come up with robust features , it does mean so you could argue , in fact , that the well - matched is something you should n't be looking at at all , that that the goal is to come up with features that will still give you reasonable performance , you know , with again gentle degregra degradation , um , even though the the testing condition is not the same as the training . so , you know , i i could argue strongly that something like the medium mismatch , which is you know not compl pathological but i mean , what was the the medium - mismatch condition again ? phd a : um , it 's yeah . medium mismatch is everything with the far microphone , but trained on , like , low noisy condition , like low speed and or stopped car and tested on high - speed conditions , i think , like on a highway and professor b : right . phd a : so professor b : so it 's still the same same microphone in both cases , phd a : same microphone but yeah . professor b : but , uh , it 's there 's a mismatch between the car conditions . and that 's uh , you could argue that 's a pretty realistic situation phd c : yeah . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh , i 'd almost argue for weighting that highest . but the way they have it now , it 's i guess it 's it 's they they compute the relative improvement first and then average that with a weighting ? phd a : yeah . professor b : and so then the that that makes the highly - matched the really big thing . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : um , so , u i since they have these three categories , it seems like the reasonable thing to do is to go across the languages and to come up with an improvement for each of those . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : just say `` ok , in the in the highly - matched case this is what happens , in the m the , uh this other m medium if this happens , in the highly - mismatched that happens `` . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh , you should see , uh , a gentle degradation through that . um . but i do n't know . phd a : yeah . professor b : i think that that i i i gather that in these meetings it 's it 's really tricky to make anything ac make any { comment } policy change because everybody has has , uh , their own opinion phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and i do n't know . phd a : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd a : uh , so yeah . yeah , but there is probably a a big change that will be made is that the the baseline th they want to have a new baseline , perhaps , which is , um , mfcc but with a voice activity detector . and apparently , uh , some people are pushing to still keep this fifty percent number . so they want to have at least fifty percent improvement on the baseline , but w which would be a much better baseline . professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd a : and if we look at the result that sunil sent , just putting the vad in the baseline improved , like , more than twenty percent , professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : which would mean then then mean that fifty percent on this new baseline is like , well , more than sixty percent improvement on on o e e uh professor b : so nobody would be there , probably . right ? phd a : right now , nobody would be there , but yeah . professor b : good . work to do . phd a : uh - huh . professor b : so whose vad is is is this a ? phd a : uh , they did n't decide yet . i guess i this was one point of the conference call also , but mmm , so i do n't know . um , but yeah . professor b : oh , i i think th that would be good . i mean , it 's not that the design of the vad is n't important , but it 's just that it it it does seem to be i uh , a lot of work to do a good job on on that and as well as being a lot of work to do a good job on the feature design , phd a : yeah . yeah . professor b : if we can cut down on that maybe we can make some progress . phd a : m yeah . but i guess perhaps i do n't know w yeah . uh , yeah . per - e s s someone told that perhaps it 's not fair to do that because the , um to make a good vad you do n't have enough to with the the features that are the baseline features . so mmm , you need more features . so you really need to put more more in the in in the front - end . professor b : yeah . sure . but i bu phd c : wait a minute . i i 'm confused . phd a : yeah . phd c : wha - what do you mean ? phd a : yeah , if i professor b : so y so you m s yeah , but well , let 's say for ins see , mfcc for instance does n't have anything in it , uh , related to the pitch . so just just for example . so suppose you 've that what you really wan na do is put a good pitch detector on there and if it gets an unambiguous phd c : oh , oh . i see . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : if it gets an unambiguous result then you 're definitely in a in a in a voice in a , uh , s region with speech . uh . phd c : so there 's this assumption that the v the voice activity detector can only use the mfcc ? phd a : that 's not clear , but this e professor b : well , for the baseline . phd c : yeah . professor b : so so if you use other features then y but it 's just a question of what is your baseline . right ? what is it that you 're supposed to do better than ? phd c : i g yeah . professor b : and so having the baseline be the mfcc 's means that people could choose to pour their ener their effort into trying to do a really good vad phd c : i do n't s but they seem like two separate issues . professor b : or tryi they 're sort of separate . phd c : right ? i mean professor b : unfortunately there 's coupling between them , which is part of what i think stephane is getting to , is that you can choose your features in such a way as to improve the vad . phd a : yeah . professor b : and you also can choose your features in such a way as to prove improve recognition . they may not be the same thing . phd c : but it seems like you should do both . professor b : you should do both phd c : right ? professor b : and and i i think that this still makes i still think this makes sense as a baseline . it 's just saying , as a baseline , we know you know , we had the mfcc 's before , lots of people have done voice activity detectors , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : you might as well pick some voice activity detector and make that the baseline , just like you picked some version of htk and made that the baseline . phd a : yeah . right . professor b : and then let 's try and make everything better . um , and if one of the ways you make it better is by having your features be better features for the vad then that 's so be it . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but , uh , uh , uh , at least you have a starting point that 's um , cuz i i some of the some of the people did n't have a vad at all , i guess . right ? and and phd a : yeah . professor b : then they they looked pretty bad and and in fact what they were doing was n't so bad at all . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : but , um . phd c : yeah . it seems like you should try to make your baseline as good as possible . and if it turns out that you ca n't improve on that , well , i mean , then , you know , nobody wins and you just use mfcc . right ? professor b : yeah . i mean , it seems like , uh , it should include sort of the current state of the art that you want are trying to improve , and mfcc 's , you know , or plp or something it seems like reasonable baseline for the features , and anybody doing this task , uh , is gon na have some sort of voice activity detection at some level , in some way . they might use the whole recognizer to do it but rather than a separate thing , but but they 'll have it on some level . so , um . phd c : it seems like whatever they choose they should n't , you know , purposefully brain - damage a part of the system to make a worse baseline , or professor b : well , i think people just had phd c : you know ? professor b : it was n't that they purposely brain - damaged it . i think people had n't really thought through about the , uh the vad issue . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and and then when the the the proposals actually came in and half of them had v a ds and half of them did n't , and the half that did did well and the half that did n't did poorly . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so it 's phd a : mm - hmm . um . yeah . so we 'll see what happen with this . and yeah . so what happened since , um , last week is well , from ogi , these experiments on putting vad on the baseline . and these experiments also are using , uh , some kind of noise compensation , so spectral subtraction , and putting on - line normalization , um , just after this . so i think spectral subtraction , lda filtering , and on - line normalization , so which is similar to the pro proposal - one , but with spectral subtraction in addition , and it seems that on - line normalization does n't help further when you have spectral subtraction . phd c : is this related to the issue that you brought up a couple of meetings ago with the the musical tones phd a : i phd c : and ? phd a : i have no idea , because the issue i brought up was with a very simple spectral subtraction approach , and the one that they use at ogi is one from from the proposed the the the aurora prop uh , proposals , which might be much better . so , yeah . i asked sunil for more information about that , but , uh , i do n't know yet . um . and what 's happened here is that we so we have this kind of new , um , reference system which use a nice a a clean downsampling - upsampling , which use a new filter that 's much shorter and which also cuts the frequency below sixty - four hertz , professor b : right . phd a : which was not done on our first proposal . professor b : when you say `` we have that `` , does sunil have it now , too , phd a : i no . professor b : or ? phd a : because we 're still testing . so we have the result for , uh , just the features and we are currently testing with putting the neural network in the klt . um , it seems to improve on the well - matched case , um , but it 's a little bit worse on the mismatch and highly - mismatched i mean when we put the neural network . and with the current weighting i think it 's sh it will be better because the well - matched case is better . mmm . professor b : but how much worse since the weighting might change how how much worse is it on the other conditions , when you say it 's a little worse ? phd a : it 's like , uh , fff , fff { comment } um , { comment } ten percent relative . yeah . professor b : ok . um . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but it has the , uh the latencies are much shorter . that 's phd a : uh - y w when i say it 's worse , it 's not it 's when i i uh , compare proposal - two to proposal - one , so , r uh , y putting neural network compared to n not having any neural network . i mean , this new system is is is better , professor b : uh - huh . phd a : because it has um , this sixty - four hertz cut - off , uh , clean downsampling , and , um what else ? uh , yeah , a good vad . we put the good vad . so . yeah , i do n't know . i i j uh , uh pr professor b : but the latencies but you 've got the latency shorter now . phd a : latency is short is yeah . professor b : yeah . phd f : is n't it phd a : and so professor b : so it 's better than the system that we had before . phd a : yeah . mainly because of the sixty - four hertz and the good vad . and then i took this system and , mmm , w uh , i p we put the old filters also . so we have this good system , with good vad , with the short filter and with the long filter , and , um , with the short filter it 's not worse . so well , is it it 's in professor b : so that 's that 's all fine . phd a : yes . uh professor b : but what you 're saying is that when you do these so let me try to understand . when when you do these same improvements to proposal - one , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : that , uh , on the i things are somewhat better , uh , in proposal - two for the well - matched case and somewhat worse for the other two cases . phd a : yeah . professor b : so does , uh when you say , uh so the th now that these other things are in there , is it the case maybe that the additions of proposal - two over proposal - one are less im important ? phd a : yeah . probably , yeah . professor b : i get it . phd a : um so , yeah . uh . yeah , but it 's a good thing anyway to have shorter delay . then we tried , um , to do something like proposal - two but having , um , e using also msg features . so there is this klt part , which use just the standard features , professor b : mm - hmm . right . phd a : and then two neura two neural networks . professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : mmm , and it does n't seem to help . um , however , we just have one result , which is the italian mismatch , so . uh . we have to wait for that to fill the whole table , but professor b : ok . there was a start of some effort on something related to voicing or something . is that ? phd a : yeah . um , yeah . so basically we try to , uh , find good features that could be used for voicing detection , uh , but it 's still , uh on the , um t phd f : oh , well , i have the picture . phd a : we w basically we are still playing with matlab to to look at at what happened , phd c : what sorts of phd f : yeah . phd a : and phd c : what sorts of features are you looking at ? phd f : we have some phd a : so we would be looking at , um , the variance of the spectrum of the excitation , phd f : uh , um , this , this , and this . phd a : something like this , which is should be high for voiced sounds . uh , we phd c : wait a minute . i what does that mean ? the variance of the spectrum of excitation . phd a : yeah . so the so basically the spectrum of the excitation for a purely periodic sig signal shou sh professor b : ok . yeah , w what yo what you 're calling the excitation , as i recall , is you 're subtracting the the , um the mel mel mel filter , uh , spectrum from the fft spectrum . phd a : e that 's right . yeah . so professor b : right . phd a : yeah . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : so we have the mel f filter bank , we have the fft , so we just professor b : so it 's it 's not really an excitation , but it 's something that hopefully tells you something about the excitation . phd a : yeah , that 's right . professor b : yeah , yeah . phd a : um yeah . phd f : we have here some histogram , phd a : e yeah , phd f : but they have a lot of overlap . phd a : but it 's it 's still yeah . so , well , for unvoiced portion we have something tha that has a mean around o point three , and for voiced portion the mean is o point fifty - nine . but the variance seem quite high . phd c : how do you know ? phd a : so mmm . phd c : how did you get your voiced and unvoiced truth data ? phd a : we used , uh , timit and we used canonical mappings between the phones phd f : yeah . we , uh , use timit on this , for phd a : th yeah . phd f : but if we look at it in one sentence , it apparently it 's good , i think . phd a : yeah , but yeah . uh , so it 's noisy timit . that 's right . yeah . grad e : it 's noisy timit . phd f : yeah . phd a : it seems quite robust to noise , so when we take we draw its parameters across time for a clean sentence and then nois the same noisy sentence , it 's very close . professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : yeah . so there are there is this . there could be also the , um something like the maximum of the auto - correlation function or which phd c : is this a a s a trained system ? or is it a system where you just pick some thresholds ? ho - how does it work ? phd a : right now we just are trying to find some features . and , phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : uh yeah . hopefully , i think what we want to have is to put these features in s some kind of , um well , to to obtain a statistical model on these features and to or just to use a neural network and hopefully these features w would help phd c : because it seems like what you said about the mean of the the voiced and the unvoiced { comment } that seemed pretty encouraging . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : well , yeah , except the variance was big . phd c : right ? phd a : yeah . except the variance is quite high . professor b : right ? phd c : well , y phd a : yeah . phd c : well , y i i do n't know that i would trust that so much because you 're doing these canonical mappings from timit labellings . phd a : uh - huh . phd c : right ? so , really that 's sort of a cartoon picture about what 's voiced and unvoiced . so that could be giving you a lot of variance . phd a : yeah . phd c : i mean , i it it may be that that you 're finding something good and that the variance is sort of artificial because of how you 're getting your truth . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . but another way of looking at it might be that i mean , what w we we are coming up with feature sets after all . so another way of looking at it is that um , the mel cepstru mel spectrum , mel cepstrum , any of these variants , um , give you the smooth spectrum . it 's the spectral envelope . by going back to the fft , you 're getting something that is more like the raw data . so the question is , what characterization and you 're playing around with this another way of looking at it is what characterization of the difference between the raw data and this smooth version is something that you 're missing that could help ? so , i mean , looking at different statistical measures of that difference , coming up with some things and just trying them out and seeing if you add them onto the feature vector does that make things better or worse in noise , where you 're really just i i the way i 'm looking at it is not so much you 're trying to f find the best the world 's best voiced - unvoiced , uh , uh , classifier , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but it 's more that , you know , uh , uh , try some different statistical characterizations of that difference back to the raw data phd c : right . professor b : and and m maybe there 's something there that the system can use . phd c : right . phd a : yeah . yeah , but ther more obvious is that yeah . the the more obvious is that that well , using the th the fft , um , you just it gives you just information about if it 's voiced or not voiced , ma mainly , i mean . but so , professor b : yeah . phd a : this is why we we started to look by having sort of voiced phonemes professor b : well , that 's the rea w w what i 'm arguing is that 's yeah . i mean , uh , what i 'm arguing is that that that 's givi you gives you your intuition . phd a : and mm - hmm . professor b : but in in reality , it 's you know , there 's all of this this overlap and so forth , grad e : oh , sorry . professor b : and but what i 'm saying is that may be ok , because what you 're really getting is not actually voiced versus unvoiced , both for the fac the reason of the overlap and and then , uh , th you know , structural reasons , uh , uh , like the one that chuck said , that that in fact , well , the data itself is that you 're working with is not perfect . phd a : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : so , what i 'm saying is maybe that 's not a killer because you 're just getting some characterization , one that 's driven by your intuition about voiced - unvoiced certainly , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but it 's just some characterization of something back in the in the in the almost raw data , rather than the smooth version . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and your intuition is driving you towards particular kinds of , uh , statistical characterizations of , um , what 's missing from the spectral envelope . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : um , obviously you have something about the excitation , um , and what is it about the excitation , and , you know and you 're not getting the excitation anyway , you know . so so i i would almost take a uh , especially if if these trainings and so forth are faster , i would almost just take a uh , a scattershot at a few different ways of look of characterizing that difference and , uh , you could have one of them but and and see , you know , which of them helps . phd a : mm - hmm . ok . phd c : so i is the idea that you 're going to take whatever features you develop and and just add them onto the future vector ? or , what 's the use of the the voiced - unvoiced detector ? phd a : uh , i guess we do n't know exactly yet . but , um yeah . th phd c : it 's not part of a vad system that you 're doing ? phd a : uh , no . no . phd c : oh , ok . phd a : no , the idea was , i guess , to to use them as as features . phd c : features . i see . phd a : uh yeah , it could be , uh it could be a neural network that does voiced and unvoiced detection , phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : but it could be in the also the big neural network that does phoneme classification . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : mmm . yeah . professor b : but each one of the mixture components i mean , you have , uh , uh , variance only , so it 's kind of like you 're just multiplying together these , um , probabilities from the individual features within each mixture . so it 's so , uh , it seems l you know phd c : i think it 's a neat thing . uh , it seems like a good idea . professor b : yeah . um . yeah . i mean , i know that , um , people doing some robustness things a ways back were were just doing just being gross and just throwing in the fft and actually it was n't was n't was n't so bad . uh , so it would s and and you know that i it 's got ta hurt you a little bit to not have a a spectral , uh a s a smooth spectral envelope , so there must be something else that you get in return for that phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : that , uh uh so . phd c : so how does uh , maybe i 'm going in too much detail , but how exactly do you make the difference between the fft and the smoothed spectral envelope ? wha - wh i i uh , how is that , uh ? phd a : um , we just how did we do it up again ? phd f : uh , we distend the we have the twenty - three coefficient af after the mel f filter , phd a : mm - hmm . phd f : and we extend these coefficient between the all the frequency range . phd c : mm - hmm . phd f : and i the interpolation i between the point is give for the triang triangular filter , the value of the triangular filter and of this way we obtained this mode this model speech . professor b : so you essentially take the values that th that you get from the triangular filter and extend them to sor sort of like a rectangle , that 's at that m value . phd f : yeah . phd a : yeah . i think we have linear interpolation . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : so we have we have one point for one energy for each filter bank , phd f : mmm yeah , it 's linear . phd a : which is the energy that 's centered on on on the triangle phd f : yeah . at the n at the center of the filter phd c : so you you end up with a vector that 's the same length as the fft vector ? phd a : yeah . that 's right . phd f : yeah . phd c : and then you just , uh , compute differences phd f : yeah . i have here one example if you if you want see something like that . phd a : then we compute the difference . yeah . uh - huh . phd c : uh , sum the differences ? phd a : so . and i think the variance is computed only from , like , two hundred hertz to one to fifteen hundred . phd c : oh ! ok . professor b : mm - hmm . phd f : two thou two { comment } fifteen hundred ? professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : because professor b : right . phd f : two hundred and fifty thousand . phd a : fifteen hundred . because yeah . phd f : yeah . two thousand and fifteen hundred . phd a : above , um it seems that well , some voiced sound can have also , like , a noisy part on high frequencies , and but professor b : yeah . phd a : well , it 's just professor b : no , it 's makes sense to look at low frequencies . phd c : so this is uh , basically this is comparing an original version of the signal to a smoothed version of the same signal ? phd f : yeah . professor b : right . so i so i i this is i mean , i you could argue about whether it should be linear interpolation or or or or zeroeth order , but but phd c : uh - huh . professor b : at any rate something like this is what you 're feeding your recognizer , typically . phd c : like which of the ? professor b : no . uh , so the mel cepstrum is the is the is the cepstrum of this this , uh , spectrum or log spectrum , phd a : so this is yeah . phd c : yeah . right , right . professor b : whatever it you - you 're subtracting in in in power domain or log domain ? phd a : in log domain . yeah . phd f : log domain . professor b : ok . so it 's sort of like division , when you do the yeah , the spectra . phd f : yeah . phd a : uh , yeah . phd c : it 's the ratio . professor b : um . yeah . but , anyway , um and that 's phd c : so what 's th uh , what 's the intuition behind this kind of a thing ? i i do n't know really know the signal - processing well enough to understand what what is that doing . phd a : so . yeah . what happen if what we have have what we would like to have is some spectrum of the excitation signal , professor b : yeah . i guess that makes sense . yeah . phd a : which is for voiced sound ideally a a pulse train phd c : uh - huh . phd a : and for unvoiced it 's something that 's more flat . phd c : uh - huh . right . phd a : and the way to do this is that well , we have the we have the fft because it 's computed in in the in the system , and we have the mel filter banks , phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd a : and so if we if we , like , remove the mel filter bank from the fft , we have something that 's close to the excitation signal . it 's something that 's like a a a train of p a pulse train for voiced sound professor b : yeah . phd c : oh ! ok . yeah . phd a : and that 's that should be flat for professor b : yeah . phd c : i see . so do you have a picture that sh ? phd a : so - it 's y phd c : is this for a voiced segment , phd a : yeah . phd c : this picture ? what does it look like for unvoiced ? phd f : yeah . phd a : you have several some unvoiced ? phd f : the dif no . unvoiced , i do n't have for unvoiced . professor b : yeah . so , you know , all phd f : i 'm sorry . phd a : but yeah . professor b : yeah . phd f : yeah . this is the between phd a : this is another voiced example . yeah . phd f : no . but it 's this , phd a : oh , yeah . this is phd f : but between the frequency that we are considered for the excitation phd a : right . mm - hmm . phd f : for the difference and this is the difference . phd a : yeah . phd c : this is the difference . ok . phd a : so , of course , it 's around zero , professor b : yeah . grad e : sure looks phd a : but well , no . it is phd f : yeah . because we begin , uh , in fifteen point the fifteen point . phd c : so , does does the periodicity of this signal say something about the the phd f : fifteen p phd a : so it 's yeah . professor b : pitch . phd a : it 's the pitch . phd c : the pitch ? phd a : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . that 's like fundamental frequency . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : so , i mean , i t t phd c : ok . i see . professor b : i mean , to first order what you 'd what you 're doing i mean , ignore all the details and all the ways which is that these are complete lies . uh , the the you know , what you 're doing in feature extraction for speech recognition is you have , uh , in your head a a a a simplified production model for speech , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : in which you have a periodic or aperiodic source that 's driving some filters . phd c : mm - hmm . phd f : yeah . this is the the auto - correlation the r - zero energy . phd a : do you have the mean do you have the mean for the auto - correlation ? professor b : uh , first order for speech recognition , you say `` i do n't care about the source `` . phd f : for yeah . phd a : well , i mean for the the energy . phd f : i have the mean . professor b : right ? phd c : right . professor b : and so you just want to find out what the filters are . phd c : right . phd f : yeah . professor b : the filters roughly act like a , um a , uh a an overall resonant you know , f some resonances and so forth that th that 's processing excitation . phd f : here . phd a : they should be more close . phd f : ah , no . this is this ? more close . is this ? and this . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : so they are this is there is less difference . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so if you look at the spectral envelope , just the very smooth properties of it , you get something closer to that . phd a : this is less it 's less robust . phd f : less robust . yeah . phd a : oh , yeah . professor b : and the notion is if you have the full spectrum , with all the little nitty - gritty details , that that has the effect of both , phd c : yeah . professor b : and it would be a multiplication in in frequency domain phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so that would be like an addition in log power spectrum domain . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : and so this is saying , well , if you really do have that sort of vocal tract envelope , and you subtract that off , what you get is the excitation . and i call that lies because you do n't really have that , you just have some kind of signal - processing trickery to get something that 's kind of smooth . it 's not really what 's happening in the vocal tract phd c : yeah . professor b : so you 're not really getting the vocal excitation . phd c : right . professor b : that 's why i was going to the why i was referring to it in a more a more , uh , uh , conservative way , when i was saying `` well , it 's yeah , it 's the excitation `` . but it 's not really the excitation . it 's whatever it is that 's different between phd c : oh . this moved in the professor b : so so , stand standing back from that , you sort of say there 's this very detailed representation . phd c : yeah . professor b : you go to a smooth representation . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : you go to a smooth representation cuz this typically generalizes better . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : um , but whenever you smooth you lose something , so the question is have you lost something you can you use ? phd c : right . professor b : um , probably you would n't want to go to the extreme of just ta saying `` ok , our feature set will be the fft `` , cuz we really think we do gain something in robustness from going to something smoother , but maybe there 's something that we missed . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so what is it ? phd c : yeah . professor b : and then you go back to the intuition that , well , you do n't really get the excitation , but you get something related to it . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and it and as you can see from those pictures , you do get something that shows some periodicity , uh , in frequency , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : you know , and and and also in time . so phd c : that 's that 's really neat . so you do n't have one for unvoiced picture ? phd f : uh , not here . no , i have s phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . phd f : but not here . professor b : but presumably you 'll see something that wo n't have this kind of , uh , uh , uh , regularity in frequency , uh , in the phd a : but yeah . well . phd f : not here . phd c : i would li i would like to see those pictures . phd f : well , so . professor b : yeah . phd f : i ca n't see you { comment } now . professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd a : mm - hmm . phd f : i do n't have . phd c : and so you said this is pretty doing this kind of thing is pretty robust to noise ? phd a : it seems , yeah . um , phd f : pfft . oops . the mean is different with it , because the the histogram for the the classifica phd a : no , no , no . but th the kind of robustness to noise so if if you take this frame , uh , from the noisy utterance and the same frame from the clean utterance phd c : you end up with a similar difference phd a : y y y yeah . we end up with phd c : over here ? phd a : yeah . phd c : ok . cool ! phd f : i have here the same frame for the clean speech phd c : oh , that 's clean . phd f : the same cle phd c : oh , ok phd f : but they are a difference . phd a : yeah , that 's phd f : because here the fft is only with two hundred fifty - six point and this is with five hundred twelve . phd a : yeah . this is kind of inter interesting also because if we use the standard , uh , frame length of of , like , twenty - five milliseconds , um , what happens is that for low - pitched voiced , because of the frame length , y you do n't really have you do n't clearly see this periodic structure , professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : because of the first lobe of of each each of the harmonics . phd c : so this one inclu is a longer ah . phd a : so , this is like yeah , fifty milliseconds or something like that . phd f : fifty millis yeah . phd a : yeah , but it 's the same frame and phd c : oh , it 's that time - frequency trade - off thing . phd a : yeah . phd c : right ? i see . yeah . phd a : so , yeah . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : oh . oh , so this i is this the difference here , for that ? phd f : no . this is the signal . this is the signal . phd a : i see that . oh , yeah . phd f : the frame . phd c : oh , that 's the f the original . phd a : yeah . phd f : this is the fra the original frame . phd a : so with a short frame basically you have only two periods phd c : yeah . phd a : and it 's not not enough to to have this kind of neat things . phd c : mm - hmm . phd f : mm - hmm . phd c : yeah . phd a : but phd f : and here no , well . phd a : yeah . so probably we 'll have to use , like , long f long frames . mm - hmm . phd c : mm - hmm . that 's interesting . professor b : yeah , maybe . well , i mean it looks better , but , i mean , the thing is if if , uh if you 're actually asking you know , if you actually j uh , need to do place along an fft , it may be it may be pushing things . phd a : yeah . professor b : and and , uh phd c : would you would you wan na do this kind of , uh , difference thing after you do spectral subtraction ? phd a : uh , maybe . phd f : no . maybe we can do that . professor b : hmm . the spectral subtraction is being done at what level ? is it being done at the level of fft bins or at the level of , uh , mel spectrum or something ? phd a : um , i guess it depends . professor b : i mean , how are they doing it ? phd a : how they 're doing it ? yeah . um , i guess ericsson is on the , um , filter bank , phd f : fft . filter bank , phd a : no ? it 's on the filter bank , phd f : yeah . phd a : so . so , yeah , probably i i it yeah . professor b : so in that case , it might not make much difference at all . phd c : seems like you 'd wan na do it on the fft bins . professor b : maybe . i mean , certainly it 'd be better . phd c : i i mean , if you were gon na uh , for for this purpose , that is . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . ok . what else ? phd a : uh . yeah , that 's all . so we 'll perhaps try to convince ogi people to use the new the new filters and yeah . professor b : ok . uh , has has anything happened yet on this business of having some sort of standard , uh , source , phd a : uh , not yet professor b : or ? phd a : but i wi i will call them and now they are i think they have more time because they have this well , eurospeech deadline is over phd c : when is the next , um , aurora deadline ? phd a : and it 's , um , in june . yeah . phd c : june . professor b : early june , late june , middle june ? phd a : i do n't know w professor b : ok . um , and he 's been doing all the talking but but these he 's he 's , uh phd f : yeah . professor b : this is this by the way a bad thing . we 're trying to get , um , m more female voices in this record as well . so . make sur make sure carmen talks as well . uh , but has he pretty much been talking about what you 're doing also , and ? phd f : oh , i i am doing this . yeah , yeah . i do n't know . i 'm sorry , but i think that for the recognizer for the meeting recorder that it 's better that i do n't speak . professor b : yeah , well . phd f : because professor b : you know , uh , we 'll get we 'll get to , uh , spanish voices sometime , and we do we want to recognize , uh , you too . phd f : after the after , uh , the result for the ti - digits on the meeting record there will be foreigns people . phd a : yeah , but professor b : oh , no . we like we we 're we 're w we are we 're in the , uh , bourlard - hermansky - morgan , uh , frame of mind . yeah , we like high error rates . it 's phd a : yeah . professor b : that way there 's lots of work to do . so it 's uh , anything to talk about ? grad d : n um , not not not much is new . so when i talked about what i 'm planning to do last time , i said i was , um , going to use avendano 's method of , um , using a transformation , um , to map from long analysis frames which are used for removing reverberation to short analysis frames for feature calculation . he has a trick for doing that involving viewing the dft as a matrix . um , but , uh , um , i decided not to do that after all because i i realized to use it i 'd need to have these short analysis frames get plugged directly into the feature computation somehow professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : and right now i think our feature computation is set to up to , um , take , um , audio as input , in general . so i decided that i i 'll do the reverberation removal on the long analysis windows and then just re - synthesize audio and then send that . professor b : this is in order to use the sri system or something . right ? grad d : um , or or even if i 'm using our system , i was thinking it might be easier to just re - synthesize the audio , professor b : yeah ? grad d : because then i could just feacalc as is and i would n't have to change the code . professor b : oh , ok . yeah . i mean , it 's um , certainly in a short short - term this just sounds easier . grad d : uh - huh . professor b : yeah . i mean , longer - term if it 's if it turns out to be useful , one one might want to do something else , grad d : right . that 's true . professor b : but uh , uh , i mean , in in other words , you you may be putting other kinds of errors in from the re - synthesis process . grad d : but e u from the re - synthesis ? um , professor b : yeah . grad d : o - ok . i do n't know anything about re - synthesis . uh , how likely do you think that is ? professor b : uh , it depends what you what you do . i mean , it 's it 's it 's , uh , um do n't know . but anyway it sounds like a reasonable way to go for a for an initial thing , and we can look at at exactly what you end up doing and and then figure out if there 's some something that could be be hurt by the end part of the process . ok . so that 's that was it , huh ? grad d : that yeah , e that 's it , that 's it . professor b : ok . ok . grad d : uh - huh . professor b : um , anything to add ? grad e : um . well , i 've been continuing reading . i went off on a little tangent this past week , um , looking at , uh , uh , modulation s spectrum stuff , um , and and learning a bit about what what , um what it is , and , uh , the importance of it in speech recognition . and i found some some , uh , neat papers , um , historical papers from , um , kanedera , hermansky , and arai . professor b : yeah . grad e : and they they did a lot of experiments where th where , um , they take speech and , um , e they modify the , uh they they they measure the relative importance of having different , um , portions of the modulation spectrum intact . professor b : yeah . grad e : and they find that the the spectrum between one and sixteen hertz in the modulation is , uh is im important for speech recognition . professor b : sure . i mean , this sort of goes back to earlier stuff by drullman . and and , uh , the the msg features were sort of built up with this notion grad e : yeah . right . professor b : but , i guess , i thought you had brought this up in the context of , um , targets somehow . grad e : right . professor b : but i m grad e : um professor b : i it 's not i mean , they 're sort of not in the same kind of category as , say , a phonetic target or a syllabic target grad e : mmm . mm - hmm . professor b : or a grad e : um , i was thinking more like using them as as the inputs to to the detectors . professor b : or a feature or something . oh , i see . well , that 's sort of what msg does . grad e : yeah . yeah . professor b : right ? so it 's grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : but but , uh yeah . grad e : yeah . professor b : anyway , we 'll talk more about it later . yeah . grad e : we can talk more about it later . professor b : yeah . yeah . grad e : yeah . professor b : so maybe , le phd c : should we do digits ? professor b : let 's do digits . let you you start . grad d : oh , ok . grad e : l fifty . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on feature classification </s> phd a : yeah . um , yeah . so basically we try to , uh , find good features that could be used for voicing detection , uh , but it 's still , uh on the , um t phd f : oh , well , i have the picture . phd a : we w basically we are still playing with matlab to to look at at what happened , phd c : what sorts of phd f : yeah . phd a : and phd c : what sorts of features are you looking at ? phd f : we have some phd a : so we would be looking at , um , the variance of the spectrum of the excitation , phd f : uh , um , this , this , and this . phd a : something like this , which is should be high for voiced sounds . uh , we phd c : wait a minute . i what does that mean ? the variance of the spectrum of excitation . phd a : yeah . so the so basically the spectrum of the excitation for a purely periodic sig signal shou sh professor b : ok . yeah , w what yo what you 're calling the excitation , as i recall , is you 're subtracting the the , um the mel mel mel filter , uh , spectrum from the fft spectrum . phd a : e that 's right . yeah . so professor b : right . phd a : yeah . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : so we have the mel f filter bank , we have the fft , so we just professor b : so it 's it 's not really an excitation , but it 's something that hopefully tells you something about the excitation . phd a : yeah , that 's right . professor b : yeah , yeah . phd a : um yeah . phd f : we have here some histogram , phd a : e yeah , phd f : but they have a lot of overlap . phd a : but it 's it 's still yeah . so , well , for unvoiced portion we have something tha that has a mean around o point three , and for voiced portion the mean is o point fifty - nine . but the variance seem quite high . phd c : how do you know ? phd a : so mmm . phd c : how did you get your voiced and unvoiced truth data ? phd a : we used , uh , timit and we used canonical mappings between the phones phd f : yeah . we , uh , use timit on this , for phd a : th yeah . phd f : but if we look at it in one sentence , it apparently it 's good , i think . phd a : yeah , but yeah . uh , so it 's noisy timit . that 's right . yeah . grad e : it 's noisy timit . phd f : yeah . phd a : it seems quite robust to noise , so when we take we draw its parameters across time for a clean sentence and then nois the same noisy sentence , it 's very close . professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : yeah . so there are there is this . there could be also the , um something like the maximum of the auto - correlation function or which phd c : is this a a s a trained system ? or is it a system where you just pick some thresholds ? ho - how does it work ? phd a : right now we just are trying to find some features . and , phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : uh yeah . hopefully , i think what we want to have is to put these features in s some kind of , um well , to to obtain a statistical model on these features and to or just to use a neural network and hopefully these features w would help phd c : because it seems like what you said about the mean of the the voiced and the unvoiced { comment } that seemed pretty encouraging . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : well , yeah , except the variance was big . phd c : right ? phd a : yeah . except the variance is quite high . professor b : right ? phd c : well , y phd a : yeah . phd c : well , y i i do n't know that i would trust that so much because you 're doing these canonical mappings from timit labellings . phd a : uh - huh . phd c : right ? so , really that 's sort of a cartoon picture about what 's voiced and unvoiced . so that could be giving you a lot of variance . phd a : yeah . phd c : i mean , i it it may be that that you 're finding something good and that the variance is sort of artificial because of how you 're getting your truth . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . but another way of looking at it might be that i mean , what w we we are coming up with feature sets after all . so another way of looking at it is that um , the mel cepstru mel spectrum , mel cepstrum , any of these variants , um , give you the smooth spectrum . it 's the spectral envelope . by going back to the fft , you 're getting something that is more like the raw data . so the question is , what characterization and you 're playing around with this another way of looking at it is what characterization of the difference between the raw data and this smooth version is something that you 're missing that could help ? so , i mean , looking at different statistical measures of that difference , coming up with some things and just trying them out and seeing if you add them onto the feature vector does that make things better or worse in noise , where you 're really just i i the way i 'm looking at it is not so much you 're trying to f find the best the world 's best voiced - unvoiced , uh , uh , classifier , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but it 's more that , you know , uh , uh , try some different statistical characterizations of that difference back to the raw data phd c : right . professor b : and and m maybe there 's something there that the system can use . phd c : right . phd a : yeah . yeah , but ther more obvious is that yeah . the the more obvious is that that well , using the th the fft , um , you just it gives you just information about if it 's voiced or not voiced , ma mainly , i mean . but so , professor b : yeah . phd a : this is why we we started to look by having sort of voiced phonemes professor b : well , that 's the rea w w what i 'm arguing is that 's yeah . i mean , uh , what i 'm arguing is that that that 's givi you gives you your intuition . phd a : and mm - hmm . professor b : but in in reality , it 's you know , there 's all of this this overlap and so forth , grad e : oh , sorry . professor b : and but what i 'm saying is that may be ok , because what you 're really getting is not actually voiced versus unvoiced , both for the fac the reason of the overlap and and then , uh , th you know , structural reasons , uh , uh , like the one that chuck said , that that in fact , well , the data itself is that you 're working with is not perfect . phd a : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : so , what i 'm saying is maybe that 's not a killer because you 're just getting some characterization , one that 's driven by your intuition about voiced - unvoiced certainly , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but it 's just some characterization of something back in the in the in the almost raw data , rather than the smooth version . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and your intuition is driving you towards particular kinds of , uh , statistical characterizations of , um , what 's missing from the spectral envelope . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : um , obviously you have something about the excitation , um , and what is it about the excitation , and , you know and you 're not getting the excitation anyway , you know . so so i i would almost take a uh , especially if if these trainings and so forth are faster , i would almost just take a uh , a scattershot at a few different ways of look of characterizing that difference and , uh , you could have one of them but and and see , you know , which of them helps . phd a : mm - hmm . ok . phd c : so i is the idea that you 're going to take whatever features you develop and and just add them onto the future vector ? or , what 's the use of the the voiced - unvoiced detector ? phd a : uh , i guess we do n't know exactly yet . but , um yeah . th phd c : it 's not part of a vad system that you 're doing ? phd a : uh , no . no . phd c : oh , ok . phd a : no , the idea was , i guess , to to use them as as features . phd c : features . i see . phd a : uh yeah , it could be , uh it could be a neural network that does voiced and unvoiced detection , phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : but it could be in the also the big neural network that does phoneme classification . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : mmm . yeah . professor b : but each one of the mixture components i mean , you have , uh , uh , variance only , so it 's kind of like you 're just multiplying together these , um , probabilities from the individual features within each mixture . so it 's so , uh , it seems l you know phd c : i think it 's a neat thing . uh , it seems like a good idea . professor b : yeah . um . yeah . i mean , i know that , um , people doing some robustness things a ways back were were just doing just being gross and just throwing in the fft and actually it was n't was n't was n't so bad . uh , so it would s and and you know that i it 's got ta hurt you a little bit to not have a a spectral , uh a s a smooth spectral envelope , so there must be something else that you get in return for that </s>
<s> what did the professor think about the voice-unvoice characterization ? </s> professor b : yeah . but another way of looking at it might be that i mean , what w we we are coming up with feature sets after all . so another way of looking at it is that um , the mel cepstru mel spectrum , mel cepstrum , any of these variants , um , give you the smooth spectrum . it 's the spectral envelope . by going back to the fft , you 're getting something that is more like the raw data . so the question is , what characterization and you 're playing around with this another way of looking at it is what characterization of the difference between the raw data and this smooth version is something that you 're missing that could help ? so , i mean , looking at different statistical measures of that difference , coming up with some things and just trying them out and seeing if you add them onto the feature vector does that make things better or worse in noise , where you 're really just i i the way i 'm looking at it is not so much you 're trying to f find the best the world 's best voiced - unvoiced , uh , uh , classifier , phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but it 's more that , you know , uh , uh , try some different statistical characterizations of that difference back to the raw data phd c : right . professor b : and and m maybe there 's something there that the system can use . phd c : right . phd a : yeah . yeah , but ther more obvious is that yeah . the the more obvious is that that well , using the th the fft , um , you just it gives you just information about if it 's voiced or not voiced , ma mainly , i mean . but so , professor b : yeah . phd a : this is why we we started to look by having sort of voiced phonemes professor b : well , that 's the rea w w what i 'm arguing is that 's yeah . i mean , uh , what i 'm arguing is that that that 's givi you gives you your intuition . phd a : and mm - hmm . professor b : but in in reality , it 's you know , there 's all of this this overlap and so forth , grad e : oh , sorry . professor b : and but what i 'm saying is that may be ok , because what you 're really getting is not actually voiced versus unvoiced , both for the fac the reason of the overlap and and then , uh , th you know , structural reasons , uh , uh , like the one that chuck said , that that in fact , well , the data itself is that you 're working with is not perfect . phd a : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : so , what i 'm saying is maybe that 's not a killer because you 're just getting some characterization , one that 's driven by your intuition about voiced - unvoiced certainly , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but it 's just some characterization of something back in the in the in the almost raw data , rather than the smooth version . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and your intuition is driving you towards particular kinds of , uh , statistical characterizations of , um , what 's missing from the spectral envelope . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : um , obviously you have something about the excitation , um , and what is it about the excitation , and , you know and you 're not getting the excitation anyway , you know . so so i i would almost take a uh , especially if if these trainings and so forth are faster , i would almost just take a uh , a scattershot at a few different ways of look of characterizing that difference and , uh , you could have one of them but and and see , you know , which of them helps . phd a : mm - hmm . ok . phd c : so i is the idea that you 're going to take whatever features you develop and and just add them onto the future vector ? or , what 's the use of the the voiced - unvoiced detector ? phd a : uh , i guess we do n't know exactly yet . but , um yeah . th phd c : it 's not part of a vad system that you 're doing ? phd a : uh , no . no . phd c : oh , ok . phd a : no , the idea was , i guess , to to use them as as features . phd c : features . i see . phd a : uh yeah , it could be , uh it could be a neural network that does voiced and unvoiced detection , phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : but it could be in the also the big neural network that does phoneme classification . phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : mmm . yeah . professor b : but each one of the mixture components i mean , you have , uh , uh , variance only , so it 's kind of like you 're just multiplying together these , um , probabilities from the individual features within each mixture . so it 's so , uh , it seems l you know phd c : i think it 's a neat thing . uh , it seems like a good idea . </s>
<s> did phd a and phd c agree about the variance ? </s> phd a : so we would be looking at , um , the variance of the spectrum of the excitation , phd f : uh , um , this , this , and this . phd a : something like this , which is should be high for voiced sounds . uh , we phd c : wait a minute . i what does that mean ? the variance of the spectrum of excitation . phd a : yeah . so the so basically the spectrum of the excitation for a purely periodic sig signal shou sh professor b : ok . yeah , w what yo what you 're calling the excitation , as i recall , is you 're subtracting the the , um the mel mel mel filter , uh , spectrum from the fft spectrum . phd a : e that 's right . yeah . so professor b : right . phd a : yeah . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : so we have the mel f filter bank , we have the fft , so we just professor b : so it 's it 's not really an excitation , but it 's something that hopefully tells you something about the excitation . phd a : yeah , that 's right . professor b : yeah , yeah . phd a : um yeah . phd f : we have here some histogram , phd a : e yeah , phd f : but they have a lot of overlap . phd a : but it 's it 's still yeah . so , well , for unvoiced portion we have something tha that has a mean around o point three , and for voiced portion the mean is o point fifty - nine . but the variance seem quite high . phd c : how do you know ? phd a : so mmm . phd c : how did you get your voiced and unvoiced truth data ? phd a : we used , uh , timit and we used canonical mappings between the phones phd f : yeah . we , uh , use timit on this , for phd a : th yeah . phd f : but if we look at it in one sentence , it apparently it 's good , i think . phd a : yeah , but yeah . uh , so it 's noisy timit . that 's right . yeah . grad e : it 's noisy timit . phd f : yeah . phd a : it seems quite robust to noise , so when we take we draw its parameters across time for a clean sentence and then nois the same noisy sentence , it 's very close . professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : yeah . so there are there is this . there could be also the , um something like the maximum of the auto - correlation function or which phd c : is this a a s a trained system ? or is it a system where you just pick some thresholds ? ho - how does it work ? phd a : right now we just are trying to find some features . and , phd c : mm - hmm . phd a : uh yeah . hopefully , i think what we want to have is to put these features in s some kind of , um well , to to obtain a statistical model on these features and to or just to use a neural network and hopefully these features w would help phd c : because it seems like what you said about the mean of the the voiced and the unvoiced { comment } that seemed pretty encouraging . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : well , yeah , except the variance was big . phd c : right ? phd a : yeah . except the variance is quite high . professor b : right ? phd c : well , y phd a : yeah . phd c : well , y i i do n't know that i would trust that so much because you 're doing these canonical mappings from timit labellings . phd a : uh - huh . phd c : right ? so , really that 's sort of a cartoon picture about what 's voiced and unvoiced . so that could be giving you a lot of variance . phd a : yeah . phd c : i mean , i it it may be that that you 're finding something good and that the variance is sort of artificial because of how you 're getting your truth . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about vad improvements </s> phd a : but i guess perhaps i do n't know w yeah . uh , yeah . per - e s s someone told that perhaps it 's not fair to do that because the , um to make a good vad you do n't have enough to with the the features that are the baseline features . so mmm , you need more features . so you really need to put more more in the in in the front - end . professor b : yeah . sure . but i bu phd c : wait a minute . i i 'm confused . phd a : yeah . phd c : wha - what do you mean ? phd a : yeah , if i professor b : so y so you m s yeah , but well , let 's say for ins see , mfcc for instance does n't have anything in it , uh , related to the pitch . so just just for example . so suppose you 've that what you really wan na do is put a good pitch detector on there and if it gets an unambiguous phd c : oh , oh . i see . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : if it gets an unambiguous result then you 're definitely in a in a in a voice in a , uh , s region with speech . uh . phd c : so there 's this assumption that the v the voice activity detector can only use the mfcc ? phd a : that 's not clear , but this e professor b : well , for the baseline . phd c : yeah . professor b : so so if you use other features then y but it 's just a question of what is your baseline . right ? what is it that you 're supposed to do better than ? phd c : i g yeah . professor b : and so having the baseline be the mfcc 's means that people could choose to pour their ener their effort into trying to do a really good vad phd c : i do n't s but they seem like two separate issues . professor b : or tryi they 're sort of separate . phd c : right ? i mean professor b : unfortunately there 's coupling between them , which is part of what i think stephane is getting to , is that you can choose your features in such a way as to improve the vad . phd a : yeah . professor b : and you also can choose your features in such a way as to prove improve recognition . they may not be the same thing . phd c : but it seems like you should do both . professor b : you should do both phd c : right ? professor b : and and i i think that this still makes i still think this makes sense as a baseline . it 's just saying , as a baseline , we know you know , we had the mfcc 's before , lots of people have done voice activity detectors , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : you might as well pick some voice activity detector and make that the baseline , just like you picked some version of htk and made that the baseline . phd a : yeah . right . professor b : and then let 's try and make everything better . um , and if one of the ways you make it better is by having your features be better features for the vad then that 's so be it . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but , uh , uh , uh , at least you have a starting point that 's um , cuz i i some of the some of the people did n't have a vad at all , i guess . right ? and and phd a : yeah . professor b : then they they looked pretty bad and and in fact what they were doing was n't so bad at all . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : but , um . phd c : yeah . it seems like you should try to make your baseline as good as possible . and if it turns out that you ca n't improve on that , well , i mean , then , you know , nobody wins and you just use mfcc . right ? professor b : yeah . i mean , it seems like , uh , it should include sort of the current state of the art that you want are trying to improve , and mfcc 's , you know , or plp or something it seems like reasonable baseline for the features , and anybody doing this task , uh , is gon na have some sort of voice activity detection at some level , in some way . they might use the whole recognizer to do it but rather than a separate thing , but but they 'll have it on some level . so , um . phd c : it seems like whatever they choose they should n't , you know , purposefully brain - damage a part of the system to make a worse baseline , or professor b : well , i think people just had phd c : you know ? professor b : it was n't that they purposely brain - damaged it . i think people had n't really thought through about the , uh the vad issue . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and and then when the the the proposals actually came in and half of them had v a ds and half of them did n't , and the half that did did well and the half that did n't did poorly . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so it 's phd a : mm - hmm . um . yeah . so we 'll see what happen with this . and yeah . so what happened since , um , last week is well , from ogi , these experiments on putting vad on the baseline . and these experiments also are using , uh , some kind of noise compensation , so spectral subtraction , and putting on - line normalization , um , just after this . so i think spectral subtraction , lda filtering , and on - line normalization , so which is similar to the pro proposal - one , but with spectral subtraction in addition , and it seems that on - line normalization does n't help further when you have spectral subtraction . phd c : is this related to the issue that you brought up a couple of meetings ago with the the musical tones phd a : i phd c : and ? phd a : i have no idea , because the issue i brought up was with a very simple spectral subtraction approach , and the one that they use at ogi is one from from the proposed the the the aurora prop uh , proposals , which might be much better . so , yeah . i asked sunil for more information about that , but , uh , i do n't know yet . um . and what 's happened here is that we so we have this kind of new , um , reference system which use a nice a a clean downsampling - upsampling , which use a new filter that 's much shorter and which also cuts the frequency below sixty - four hertz , professor b : right . phd a : which was not done on our first proposal . professor b : when you say `` we have that `` , does sunil have it now , too , phd a : i no . professor b : or ? phd a : because we 're still testing . so we have the result for , uh , just the features and we are currently testing with putting the neural network in the klt . um , it seems to improve on the well - matched case , um , but it 's a little bit worse on the mismatch and highly - mismatched i mean when we put the neural network . and with the current weighting i think it 's sh it will be better because the well - matched case is better . mmm . professor b : but how much worse since the weighting might change how how much worse is it on the other conditions , when you say it 's a little worse ? phd a : it 's like , uh , fff , fff { comment } um , { comment } ten percent relative . yeah . professor b : ok . um . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but it has the , uh the latencies are much shorter . that 's phd a : uh - y w when i say it 's worse , it 's not it 's when i i uh , compare proposal - two to proposal - one , so , r uh , y putting neural network compared to n not having any neural network . i mean , this new system is is is better , professor b : uh - huh . phd a : because it has um , this sixty - four hertz cut - off , uh , clean downsampling , and , um what else ? uh , yeah , a good vad . we put the good vad . so . yeah , i do n't know . i i j uh , uh pr professor b : but the latencies but you 've got the latency shorter now . phd a : latency is short is yeah . professor b : yeah . phd f : is n't it phd a : and so professor b : so it 's better than the system that we had before . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about latencies ? </s> phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but it has the , uh the latencies are much shorter . that 's phd a : uh - y w when i say it 's worse , it 's not it 's when i i uh , compare proposal - two to proposal - one , so , r uh , y putting neural network compared to n not having any neural network . i mean , this new system is is is better , professor b : uh - huh . phd a : because it has um , this sixty - four hertz cut - off , uh , clean downsampling , and , um what else ? uh , yeah , a good vad . we put the good vad . so . yeah , i do n't know . i i j uh , uh pr professor b : but the latencies but you 've got the latency shorter now . phd a : latency is short is yeah . professor b : yeah . phd f : is n't it phd a : and so professor b : so it 's better than the system that we had before . </s>
<s> what did phd a think about vad ? </s> phd a : but i guess perhaps i do n't know w yeah . uh , yeah . per - e s s someone told that perhaps it 's not fair to do that because the , um to make a good vad you do n't have enough to with the the features that are the baseline features . so mmm , you need more features . so you really need to put more more in the in in the front - end . professor b : yeah . sure . but i bu phd c : wait a minute . i i 'm confused . phd a : yeah . phd c : wha - what do you mean ? phd a : yeah , if i professor b : so y so you m s yeah , but well , let 's say for ins see , mfcc for instance does n't have anything in it , uh , related to the pitch . so just just for example . so suppose you 've that what you really wan na do is put a good pitch detector on there and if it gets an unambiguous phd c : oh , oh . i see . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : if it gets an unambiguous result then you 're definitely in a in a in a voice in a , uh , s region with speech . uh . phd c : so there 's this assumption that the v the voice activity detector can only use the mfcc ? phd a : that 's not clear , but this e professor b : well , for the baseline . phd c : yeah . professor b : so so if you use other features then y but it 's just a question of what is your baseline . right ? what is it that you 're supposed to do better than ? phd c : i g yeah . professor b : and so having the baseline be the mfcc 's means that people could choose to pour their ener their effort into trying to do a really good vad phd c : i do n't s but they seem like two separate issues . professor b : or tryi they 're sort of separate . phd c : right ? i mean professor b : unfortunately there 's coupling between them , which is part of what i think stephane is getting to , is that you can choose your features in such a way as to improve the vad . phd a : yeah . professor b : and you also can choose your features in such a way as to prove improve recognition . they may not be the same thing . phd c : but it seems like you should do both . professor b : you should do both phd c : right ? professor b : and and i i think that this still makes i still think this makes sense as a baseline . it 's just saying , as a baseline , we know you know , we had the mfcc 's before , lots of people have done voice activity detectors , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : you might as well pick some voice activity detector and make that the baseline , just like you picked some version of htk and made that the baseline . phd a : yeah . right . professor b : and then let 's try and make everything better . um , and if one of the ways you make it better is by having your features be better features for the vad then that 's so be it . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but , uh , uh , uh , at least you have a starting point that 's um , cuz i i some of the some of the people did n't have a vad at all , i guess . right ? and and phd a : yeah . professor b : then they they looked pretty bad and and in fact what they were doing was n't so bad at all . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : but , um . phd c : yeah . it seems like you should try to make your baseline as good as possible . and if it turns out that you ca n't improve on that , well , i mean , then , you know , nobody wins and you just use mfcc . right ? professor b : yeah . i mean , it seems like , uh , it should include sort of the current state of the art that you want are trying to improve , and mfcc 's , you know , or plp or something it seems like reasonable baseline for the features , and anybody doing this task , uh , is gon na have some sort of voice activity detection at some level , in some way . they might use the whole recognizer to do it but rather than a separate thing , but but they 'll have it on some level . so , um . phd c : it seems like whatever they choose they should n't , you know , purposefully brain - damage a part of the system to make a worse baseline , or professor b : well , i think people just had phd c : you know ? professor b : it was n't that they purposely brain - damaged it . i think people had n't really thought through about the , uh the vad issue . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and and then when the the the proposals actually came in and half of them had v a ds and half of them did n't , and the half that did did well and the half that did n't did poorly . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so it 's phd a : mm - hmm . um . yeah . so we 'll see what happen with this . and yeah . so what happened since , um , last week is well , from ogi , these experiments on putting vad on the baseline . and these experiments also are using , uh , some kind of noise compensation , so spectral subtraction , and putting on - line normalization , um , just after this . so i think spectral subtraction , lda filtering , and on - line normalization , so which is similar to the pro proposal - one , but with spectral subtraction in addition , and it seems that on - line normalization does n't help further when you have spectral subtraction . phd c : is this related to the issue that you brought up a couple of meetings ago with the the musical tones phd a : i phd c : and ? phd a : i have no idea , because the issue i brought up was with a very simple spectral subtraction approach , and the one that they use at ogi is one from from the proposed the the the aurora prop uh , proposals , which might be much better . so , yeah . i asked sunil for more information about that , but , uh , i do n't know yet . um . and what 's happened here is that we so we have this kind of new , um , reference system which use a nice a a clean downsampling - upsampling , which use a new filter that 's much shorter and which also cuts the frequency below sixty - four hertz , professor b : right . phd a : which was not done on our first proposal . professor b : when you say `` we have that `` , does sunil have it now , too , phd a : i no . professor b : or ? phd a : because we 're still testing . so we have the result for , uh , just the features and we are currently testing with putting the neural network in the klt . um , it seems to improve on the well - matched case , um , but it 's a little bit worse on the mismatch and highly - mismatched i mean when we put the neural network . and with the current weighting i think it 's sh it will be better because the well - matched case is better . mmm . professor b : but how much worse since the weighting might change how how much worse is it on the other conditions , when you say it 's a little worse ? phd a : it 's like , uh , fff , fff { comment } um , { comment } ten percent relative . yeah . professor b : ok . um . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but it has the , uh the latencies are much shorter . that 's phd a : uh - y w when i say it 's worse , it 's not it 's when i i uh , compare proposal - two to proposal - one , so , r uh , y putting neural network compared to n not having any neural network . i mean , this new system is is is better , professor b : uh - huh . phd a : because it has um , this sixty - four hertz cut - off , uh , clean downsampling , and , um what else ? uh , yeah , a good vad . we put the good vad . so . yeah , i do n't know . i i j uh , uh pr professor b : but the latencies but you 've got the latency shorter now . phd a : latency is short is yeah . professor b : yeah . phd f : is n't it phd a : and so professor b : so it 's better than the system that we had before . phd a : yeah . mainly because of the sixty - four hertz and the good vad . and then i took this system and , mmm , w uh , i p we put the old filters also . so we have this good system , with good vad , with the short filter and with the long filter , and , um , with the short filter it 's not worse . so well , is it it 's in professor b : so that 's that 's all fine . phd a : yes . uh professor b : but what you 're saying is that when you do these so let me try to understand . when when you do these same improvements to proposal - one , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : that , uh , on the i things are somewhat better , uh , in proposal - two for the well - matched case and somewhat worse for the other two cases . phd a : yeah . professor b : so does , uh when you say , uh so the th now that these other things are in there , is it the case maybe that the additions of proposal - two over proposal - one are less im important ? phd a : yeah . probably , yeah . professor b : i get it . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . everybody ready ? marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh i think the first thing we do is introduce ourselves marketing : i think so . project manager : and everybody 's name and what your function is ? marketing : yeah , that 's a good plan . project manager : so maybe we start with you ? user interface : okay . yeah , my name is francina . and i 'm uh an user interface my role is uh the main responsibility is user interface . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and my role is to design uh a television remote control . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . marketing : and i 'm a marketing person . i wan na figure out how to sell them . project manager : mm-hmm . and your name is ? marketing : my name is eileen . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah . uh i 'm jeanne-oui . um uh my role is industrial designer and my responsibilities are uh uh um deal with the technical-functional designs and specifications of user interface and dealing with user interface design . project manager : very good . and as you already know i am betty . i am the project manager for today . so why do n't we look at the presentation to see what we really are supposed to do . um . marketing : okay . project manager : yes y opening , acquaintance , tool training well , the tools are , i think , we already i guess the tool is really our the computer , as far as i can see . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh we get ins each of us will get instructions and we 'll take it from there . project plan , that falls under the same heading pretty much . um , i do n't think we have any great discussion at this point . um . here is what this thing should be . this thing we are gon na um uh design is a new remote control . uh should be original , trendy , and , of course , user friendly . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so maybe you wan na make some notes of that . marketing : okay . project manager : okay ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : all right . here is what the functional design is supposed to achieve . um . that is it 's gon na be individual work and then at the meeting we 'll discuss what uh we have come up with . the same goes for the conceptual design , there will be individual work whic and then discussion afterwards . detailed design , same thing basically . marketing : mm 'kay so three different types of design that we 're gon na be concerned with okay . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : functional , conception and detailed . project manager : i ca n't write with this thing . marketing : maybe we should redesign it . project manager : yes . industrial designer : marketing : after we 've finished the remote control we 'll get to that . project manager : yeah , okay . all right ? then , tool training try out the white board , participant can draw their favourite animal . does anybody want to go and see how the white board works ? so that in case we have to , in the next meeting , present something on the white board . you wan na go eileen and marketing : okay , i 'll see what i can do . project manager : whether you without hanging yourself . marketing : see if i r see if i remember how to draw a kitty cat or a rabbit or something . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : and remember you have to press so it works . marketing : so that it will record okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um uh um traditional kitty cat . project manager : fat , a fat cat . user interface : marketing : i 've a very fat cat . industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : marketing : and it likes to sit like that . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : and you 're francine , right ? would you like s like just to see um how it feels , so that you have a little idea ? user interface : yes , i 'm francina . yes , sure . project manager : in marketing : am i supposed to wipe off that or project manager : no , no . no , that 's okay . user interface : no , okay . marketing : okay . project manager : i do n't know , we 'll get to that later . marketing : okay . user interface : what should i draw ? industrial designer : snake . user interface : i 'm going to draw a snake . industrial designer : project manager : okay . user interface : how does it look like ? industrial designer : marketing : uh , okay . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : i hope the kitty cat is hungry 'cause i do n't like snakes . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : here 's the project finance uh which , of course , we all have to think about when we design this thing . um selling price is supposed to be twenty five euro . uh profit aim for the company is fifty million euro , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : the market range unlimited meaning international marketing : okay . project manager : and the production cost should not exceed hopefully should be less than twelve fifty euro . marketing : mm 'kay that should keep everybody on their toes and challenged . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : profit . um is fifty mm . project manager : so these are all things , of course , to remember with the budget and when you design to materials , cost , etcetera . now , uh the discussion i guess is um does anyone of you have experience with remote control ? marketing : oops . project manager : i exp i s 'cause we we use 'em we use 'em , right , everyday . industrial designer : yeah , of course , using remote control . yeah . project manager : and um now having used a remote control for years does anybody already have like an idea like things you did n't like with it , things you would like to change , things you would like to improve with this thing ye any first ideas ? would you like it to be smaller , bigger , have more have more buttons on it or maybe clearly better marked buttons , you know , things like that ? user interface : yeah , i industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yes , i i feel that all the remote should be very compact . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : small , right . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , those which we get here nowadays it 's very long . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and um and it should have multi-purpose . like uh the remote control which we use for tv , it shou uh it should be used f uh for some other purpose also , like controlling the uh temperature inside the house or for air-conditioners , or for heating system . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : audio player . oh . okay . project manager : so it should be a multi-functional uh gadget that would um control all your household uh uh machines basically . user interface : yes , exactly yes . industrial designer : divides us user interface : yeah . exactly . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : at um twelve fifty euros per user interface : industrial designer : project manager : well . marketing : well who knows if we get a really good designer maybe we can do that . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we certainly can try to i agree with her that to market something successfully it should do some more things . project manager : it should be something new it should be s it it should do something different than than just what we have . marketing : that 's right . project manager : now , of course , the other thing to think there is maybe the design . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , of course . user interface : yeah , design should be , yeah it should be different . all the almost all the remotes project manager : like trendy no like f for earlier we saw maybe it should be something trendy you know . maybe it should different colours or materials or you know . user interface : yes , exactly . industrial designer : yeah , maybe ten i do yeah , colours user interface : are different shapes . industrial designer : and al shapes also . yeah . project manager : um so yeah shapes right , you know , like kidney shape feels better in your hand or something , you know . industrial designer : yeah of course yeah . marketing : yeah okay , friendly shape , that would help . project manager : yeah . marketing : i think another thing that would help is um if it beeps when you clap , because i think one of the big things that happens is people lose them . they ca n't find it . project manager : that is true , user interface : project manager : because they put a newspaper or they put it behind a plant or , we you know , whatever . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and and they suddenly the phone rings and they want to turn the tv off and they say , where the hell is my my remote control yeah ? marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : well or yeah or if it 's really , if it 's really in a dark spot that it gives out a a sound or a signal . marketing : so some industrial designer : yeah , some beep or something like that , project manager : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : or a b marketing : uh so , so it 's really the beep or , or a light should blink . industrial designer : so that we can go project manager : so if lost if lost uh signal with b throw signal , you know . user interface : should ha industrial designer : yeah . user interface : a fluorescent signal , yeah . marketing : mm 'kay . industrial designer : yeah , maybe it should have a light so that we can , we can just recognise where it is . project manager : exactly , i mean just that 's what i 'm saying . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . may not be beep . project manager : i 'm just saying throw signal meaning just whether it 's a beep or whether a light or industrial designer : beep or uh it 's a light , maybe it 's a light . marketing : and do you think a good c c um clue for that is that it would respond to a clap or it would respond to your voice or it would respond what what should you have to do to make it beep or blink ? project manager : okay , my my idea is maybe that the minute it 's really hidden , in in other words if it 's like in a dark spot , uh meaning you know like a newspaper is on top , a sweater is on top or it it 's behind a plant , at that moment it 's it 's like , it 's like um , what you call it a light s sensors , you know ? marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : in in that moment it has a sensor , i it it gets a certain darkness , it ge has a sensor and it gives out a signal whether that be a light signal or a beep , marketing : okay so okay . project manager : i mean , that we can discuss that later , you know . industrial designer : yeah , probably yeah , probably it 's a yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . and uh marketing : so the light sensor would activate the signal . project manager : that 's right . you know there would be industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : right you have to have some kind of sensor and i i think uh voice or clapping it 's not specific enough . uh i know there are the lamps and stuff , you know , you can clap on and off , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but i think they only work to certain degree and marketing : but it could be someplace really obvious and you still would n't be able to find it . project manager : what with industrial designer : yeah , of course , that did n't user interface : then , in that case marketing : well , because you 're s because you 're silly . because people are silly . industrial designer : i i we ca n't do it . project manager : oh yeah well , but then those people we ca n't help everybody . marketing : i mean it could be on well , i if it were like on top of your bookcase and you usually kept it on the coffee table industrial designer : marketing : um , project manager : okay we have uh marketing : you know , well maybe we have to move along , okay . project manager : yeah , we have to move along , but i think we have some good good points to start with here . industrial designer : yeah , good point . project manager : okay , the next meeting will be in thirty minutes . i think you all did you get uh notices on your computer for this ? okay so well , you got the notice um industrial designer : me yeah . project manager : uh . the working design , i guess that 's the function i_d_ uh who is this ? the industrial designer that 's you . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , it 's functional de yeah , exactly , technical . project manager : okay . so , we looking for a working design when we come back . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : uh working design , yeah , it 's it 's uh mainly technical-functional design . project manager : then and then the technical funct you are the technical function , industrial designer : yeah , functional design , project manager : so so you are the working design . industrial designer : and you project manager : so you have a working design and then a functional design . user interface : okay . project manager : and the marketing manager is coming up with some user requirement specification , like friendliness , and what we just discussed in general . that would be your idea . and , of course , price . that it , that it , that the price is a good price . i mean , the price is given , but , that was marketing : mm-hmm . we have to justify that price by having sufficient features to make it sell at that price . project manager : that 's right . that 's right . user interface : project manager : and , you know , specifi you you will get specific um instructions for that . i think that 's the end of the show . yeah . so um we have well , we have a twen two two two three minutes . um any questions at this point ? or uh suggestions ? i think basically basically you will get instructions to work with and if you have any questions uh , uh i guess , you can uh user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay , i think i have enough to think about 'til our next meeting . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , even i have . marketing : how about you people ? project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , even i have , i think , yeah . marketing : really ? okay . 'kay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , so let 's see . marketing : alright , well uh project manager : then uh we see you in about thirty minutes . and see what we can come up with . user interface : okay . marketing : okay , very good . project manager : okay ? </s>
<s> what were the participants of this meeting responsible for ? </s> project manager : okay . everybody ready ? marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh i think the first thing we do is introduce ourselves marketing : i think so . project manager : and everybody 's name and what your function is ? marketing : yeah , that 's a good plan . project manager : so maybe we start with you ? user interface : okay . yeah , my name is francina . and i 'm uh an user interface my role is uh the main responsibility is user interface . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and my role is to design uh a television remote control . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . marketing : and i 'm a marketing person . i wan na figure out how to sell them . project manager : mm-hmm . and your name is ? marketing : my name is eileen . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah . uh i 'm jeanne-oui . um uh my role is industrial designer and my responsibilities are uh uh um deal with the technical-functional designs and specifications of user interface and dealing with user interface design . project manager : very good . and as you already know i am betty . i am the project manager for today . so why do n't we look at the presentation to see what we really are supposed to do . um . </s>
<s> what is the scope of the project ? </s> project manager : uh we get ins each of us will get instructions and we 'll take it from there . project plan , that falls under the same heading pretty much . um , i do n't think we have any great discussion at this point . um . here is what this thing should be . this thing we are gon na um uh design is a new remote control . uh should be original , trendy , and , of course , user friendly . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so maybe you wan na make some notes of that . marketing : okay . project manager : okay ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : all right . here is what the functional design is supposed to achieve . um . that is it 's gon na be individual work and then at the meeting we 'll discuss what uh we have come up with . the same goes for the conceptual design , there will be individual work whic and then discussion afterwards . detailed design , same thing basically . marketing : mm 'kay so three different types of design that we 're gon na be concerned with okay . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : functional , conception and detailed . project manager : here 's the project finance uh which , of course , we all have to think about when we design this thing . um selling price is supposed to be twenty five euro . uh profit aim for the company is fifty million euro , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : the market range unlimited meaning international marketing : okay . project manager : and the production cost should not exceed hopefully should be less than twelve fifty euro . marketing : mm 'kay that should keep everybody on their toes and challenged . project manager : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did the team think of user interface 's idea regarding a compact and multi-purpose remote ? </s> user interface : yes , i i feel that all the remote should be very compact . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : small , right . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , those which we get here nowadays it 's very long . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and um and it should have multi-purpose . like uh the remote control which we use for tv , it shou uh it should be used f uh for some other purpose also , like controlling the uh temperature inside the house or for air-conditioners , or for heating system . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : audio player . oh . okay . project manager : so it should be a multi-functional uh gadget that would um control all your household uh uh machines basically . user interface : yes , exactly yes . industrial designer : divides us user interface : yeah . exactly . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : at um twelve fifty euros per user interface : industrial designer : project manager : well . marketing : well who knows if we get a really good designer maybe we can do that . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the appearance of the remote . </s> project manager : and um now having used a remote control for years does anybody already have like an idea like things you did n't like with it , things you would like to change , things you would like to improve with this thing ye any first ideas ? would you like it to be smaller , bigger , have more have more buttons on it or maybe clearly better marked buttons , you know , things like that ? user interface : yeah , i industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yes , i i feel that all the remote should be very compact . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : small , right . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , those which we get here nowadays it 's very long . project manager : mm-hmm . it should be something new it should be s it it should do something different than than just what we have . marketing : that 's right . project manager : now , of course , the other thing to think there is maybe the design . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , of course . user interface : yeah , design should be , yeah it should be different . all the almost all the remotes project manager : like trendy no like f for earlier we saw maybe it should be something trendy you know . maybe it should different colours or materials or you know . user interface : yes , exactly . industrial designer : yeah , maybe ten i do yeah , colours user interface : are different shapes . industrial designer : and al shapes also . yeah . project manager : um so yeah shapes right , you know , like kidney shape feels better in your hand or something , you know . industrial designer : yeah of course yeah . marketing : yeah okay , friendly shape , that would help . </s>
<s> what solutions did the team come up with to help people better locate the remote ? </s> marketing : i think another thing that would help is um if it beeps when you clap , because i think one of the big things that happens is people lose them . they ca n't find it . project manager : that is true , user interface : project manager : because they put a newspaper or they put it behind a plant or , we you know , whatever . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and and they suddenly the phone rings and they want to turn the tv off and they say , where the hell is my my remote control yeah ? marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : well or yeah or if it 's really , if it 's really in a dark spot that it gives out a a sound or a signal . marketing : so some industrial designer : yeah , some beep or something like that , project manager : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : or a b marketing : uh so , so it 's really the beep or , or a light should blink . industrial designer : so that we can go project manager : so if lost if lost uh signal with b throw signal , you know . user interface : should ha industrial designer : yeah . user interface : a fluorescent signal , yeah . marketing : mm 'kay . industrial designer : yeah , maybe it should have a light so that we can , we can just recognise where it is . project manager : exactly , i mean just that 's what i 'm saying . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . may not be beep . project manager : i 'm just saying throw signal meaning just whether it 's a beep or whether a light or industrial designer : beep or uh it 's a light , maybe it 's a light . marketing : and do you think a good c c um clue for that is that it would respond to a clap or it would respond to your voice or it would respond what what should you have to do to make it beep or blink ? project manager : okay , my my idea is maybe that the minute it 's really hidden , in in other words if it 's like in a dark spot , uh meaning you know like a newspaper is on top , a sweater is on top or it it 's behind a plant , at that moment it 's it 's like , it 's like um , what you call it a light s sensors , you know ? marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : in in that moment it has a sensor , i it it gets a certain darkness , it ge has a sensor and it gives out a signal whether that be a light signal or a beep , marketing : okay so okay . project manager : i mean , that we can discuss that later , you know . industrial designer : yeah , probably yeah , probably it 's a yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . and uh marketing : so the light sensor would activate the signal . project manager : that 's right . you know there would be industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : right you have to have some kind of sensor and i i think uh voice or clapping it 's not specific enough . uh i know there are the lamps and stuff , you know , you can clap on and off , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but i think they only work to certain degree and marketing : but it could be someplace really obvious and you still would n't be able to find it . project manager : what with industrial designer : yeah , of course , that did n't user interface : then , in that case marketing : well , because you 're s because you 're silly . because people are silly . industrial designer : i i we ca n't do it . project manager : oh yeah well , but then those people we ca n't help everybody . marketing : i mean it could be on well , i if it were like on top of your bookcase and you usually kept it on the coffee table industrial designer : marketing : um , project manager : okay we have uh </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the functions of the remote ? </s> user interface : yes , i i feel that all the remote should be very compact . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : small , right . mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , those which we get here nowadays it 's very long . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and um and it should have multi-purpose . like uh the remote control which we use for tv , it shou uh it should be used f uh for some other purpose also , like controlling the uh temperature inside the house or for air-conditioners , or for heating system . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : audio player . oh . okay . project manager : so it should be a multi-functional uh gadget that would um control all your household uh uh machines basically . user interface : yes , exactly yes . industrial designer : divides us user interface : yeah . exactly . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . marketing : at um twelve fifty euros per user interface : industrial designer : project manager : well . marketing : well who knows if we get a really good designer maybe we can do that . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we certainly can try to i agree with her that to market something successfully it should do some more things . project manager : it should be something new it should be s it it should do something different than than just what we have . marketing : that 's right . i think another thing that would help is um if it beeps when you clap , because i think one of the big things that happens is people lose them . they ca n't find it . project manager : that is true , user interface : project manager : because they put a newspaper or they put it behind a plant or , we you know , whatever . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and and they suddenly the phone rings and they want to turn the tv off and they say , where the hell is my my remote control yeah ? marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : well or yeah or if it 's really , if it 's really in a dark spot that it gives out a a sound or a signal . marketing : so some industrial designer : yeah , some beep or something like that , project manager : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : or a b marketing : uh so , so it 's really the beep or , or a light should blink . industrial designer : so that we can go project manager : so if lost if lost uh signal with b throw signal , you know . user interface : should ha industrial designer : yeah . user interface : a fluorescent signal , yeah . marketing : mm 'kay . industrial designer : yeah , maybe it should have a light so that we can , we can just recognise where it is . project manager : exactly , i mean just that 's what i 'm saying . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . may not be beep . project manager : i 'm just saying throw signal meaning just whether it 's a beep or whether a light or industrial designer : beep or uh it 's a light , maybe it 's a light . marketing : and do you think a good c c um clue for that is that it would respond to a clap or it would respond to your voice or it would respond what what should you have to do to make it beep or blink ? project manager : okay , my my idea is maybe that the minute it 's really hidden , in in other words if it 's like in a dark spot , uh meaning you know like a newspaper is on top , a sweater is on top or it it 's behind a plant , at that moment it 's it 's like , it 's like um , what you call it a light s sensors , you know ? marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : in in that moment it has a sensor , i it it gets a certain darkness , it ge has a sensor and it gives out a signal whether that be a light signal or a beep , marketing : okay so okay . project manager : i mean , that we can discuss that later , you know . industrial designer : yeah , probably yeah , probably it 's a yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . and uh marketing : so the light sensor would activate the signal . project manager : that 's right . you know there would be industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : right you have to have some kind of sensor and i i think uh voice or clapping it 's not specific enough . uh i know there are the lamps and stuff , you know , you can clap on and off , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but i think they only work to certain degree and marketing : but it could be someplace really obvious and you still would n't be able to find it . project manager : what with industrial designer : yeah , of course , that did n't user interface : then , in that case marketing : well , because you 're s because you 're silly . because people are silly . industrial designer : i i we ca n't do it . project manager : oh yeah well , but then those people we ca n't help everybody . marketing : i mean it could be on well , i if it were like on top of your bookcase and you usually kept it on the coffee table industrial designer : marketing : um , project manager : okay we have uh </s>
<s> summarize the wrap up of the meeting . </s> marketing : you know , well maybe we have to move along , okay . project manager : yeah , we have to move along , but i think we have some good good points to start with here . industrial designer : yeah , good point . project manager : okay , the next meeting will be in thirty minutes . i think you all did you get uh notices on your computer for this ? okay so well , you got the notice um industrial designer : me yeah . project manager : uh . the working design , i guess that 's the function i_d_ uh who is this ? the industrial designer that 's you . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , it 's functional de yeah , exactly , technical . project manager : okay . so , we looking for a working design when we come back . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : uh working design , yeah , it 's it 's uh mainly technical-functional design . project manager : then and then the technical funct you are the technical function , industrial designer : yeah , functional design , project manager : so so you are the working design . industrial designer : and you project manager : so you have a working design and then a functional design . user interface : okay . project manager : and the marketing manager is coming up with some user requirement specification , like friendliness , and what we just discussed in general . that would be your idea . and , of course , price . that it , that it , that the price is a good price . i mean , the price is given , but , that was marketing : mm-hmm . we have to justify that price by having sufficient features to make it sell at that price . project manager : that 's right . that 's right . user interface : </s>
<s> what was the meeting about ? </s> grad e : as usual . grad b : yes . whew ! i almost forgot about the meeting . i woke up twenty minutes ago , thinking , what did i forget ? grad d : it 's great how the br brain sort of does that . grad e : something 's not right here . grad b : internal alarms . grad d : ok . so the news for me is a , my forthcoming travel plans in two weeks from today ? yeah ? more or less ? i 'll be off to sicily and germany for a couple , three days . grad b : now what are y what are you doing there ? i forgot ? grad d : ok , i 'm flying to sicily basically to drop off simon there with his grandparents . and then i 'm flying to germany t to go to a moku - treffen which is the meeting of all the module - responsible people in smartkom , and , represent ici and myself i guess there . and um . that 's the mmm actual reason . and then i 'm also going up to eml for a day , and then i 'm going to meet the very big boss , wolfgang walster , in saarbruecken and the system system integration people in kaiserslautern and then i 'm flying back via sicily pick up my son come back here on the fourth of july . and uh . grad e : what a great time to be coming back to the grad b : god bless america . grad e : you 'll see maybe see the fireworks from your plane coming in . grad d : and i 'm sure all the the people at the airport will be happy to work on that day . grad e : yeah . you 'll get even better service than usual . grad b : wait , are n't you flying on lufthansa though ? grad d : mm - hmm . alitalia . grad b : oh . well then the you know , it 's not a big deal . once you get to the united states it 'll be a problem , but grad d : yeah . and um , that 's that bit of news , and the other bit of news is we had you know , uh , i was visited by my german project manager who a , did like what we did what we 're doing here , and b , is planning to come here either three weeks in july or three weeks in august , to actually work . grad b : on ? grad d : with us . and we sat around and we talked and he came up we came up with a pretty strange idea . and that 's what i 'm gon na lay on you now . and um , maybe it might be ultimately the most interesting thing for eva because she has been known to complain about the fact that the stuff we do here is not weird enough . so this is so weird it should even make you happy . grad c : uh . { comment } ok . grad e : oh great . grad d : imagine if you will , that we have a system that does all that understanding that we want it to do based on utterances . grad b : mm - hmm . grad d : it should be possible to make that system produce questions . so if you have the knowledge of how to interpret `` where is x ? `` under given conditions , situational , user , discourse and ontological conditions , you should also be able to make that same system ask `` where is x ? `` grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : in a sper certain way , based on certain intentions . so in instead of just being able to observe phenomenon , um , and , guess the intention we might be able just to sort of give it an intention , and make it produce an utterance . grad b : well , like in ai they generally do the take in , and then they also do the generation phase , like nancy 's thing . or uh , you remember , in the the hand thing in one - eighty - two , like not only was it able to recognize but it was also to generate based upon situations . you mean that sort of thing ? grad d : absolutely . and once you 've done that what we can do is have the system ask itself . and answer , understand the answer , ask something else , and enter a dialogue with itself . so the the ba basic the same idea as having two chess computers play against each other . grad e : except this smacks a little bit more of a schizophrenic computer than ai . grad d : yeah you c if you want , you can have two parallel machines um , asking each other . what would that give us ? would a be something completely weird and strange , and b , i if you look at all the factors , we will never observe people let 's say , in wheelchairs under you know , in under all conditions , grad e : that 's good . grad d : you know , when they say `` x `` , and there is a ride at the goal , and the parking is good , we can never collect enough data . it 's it 's it 's not possible . grad e : mm - hmm . right , right . grad d : but maybe one could do some learning . if you get the system to speak to itself , you may find n break downs and errors and you may be able to learn . and make it more robust , maybe learn new things . and um , so there 's no no end of potential things one could get out of it , if that works . and he would like to actually work on that with us . grad b : well then , he probably should be coming back a year from now . grad d : so yeah , i w see the the generation bit , making the system generate generate something , { comment } is should n't be too hard . grad b : well , once the system understands things . grad e : yeah . no problem . grad b : i just do n't think i think we 're probably a year away from getting the system to understand things . grad d : yeah . well , if we can get it to understand one thing , like our `` where is `` run through we can also , maybe , e make it say , or ask `` where is x ? `` or not . grad e : mmm , i do n't know . e i 'm sort of have the impression that getting it to say the right thing in the right circumstances is much more difficult than getting it to understand something given the circumstances and so on , you know , i mean just cuz it 's sort of harder to learn to speak correctly in a foreign language , rather than learning to understand it . right ? i mean just the fact that we 'll get the point is that getting it to understand one construction does n't mean that it will n always know exactly when it 's correct to use that construction . right ? grad d : it 's it 's uh well , i 've i 've done generation and language production research for fo four four and a half years . and so it 's it 's you 're right , it 's not the same as the understanding . it 's in some ways easier and some ways harder . nuh ? grad e : yeah . grad d : but , um , i think it 'd be fun to look at it , or into that question . grad e : nnn , yeah . grad d : it 's a pretty strange idea . and so that 's that 's but grad b : the basic idea i guess would be to give allow the system to have intentions , basically ? cuz that 's basically what needs to be added to the system for it . grad d : well , look at th eee , i think even think even what it would be the the prior intention . so let 's uh uh , let 's say we have this grad b : well we 'd have to seed that , i mean . grad d : no . let 's we have to we have some some top - down processing , given certain setting . ok , now we change nothing , and just say ask something . right ? what would it ask ? grad b : it would n't know what to ask . i mean . grad d : it shur grad b : unless it was in a situation . we 'd have to set up a situation where , it did n't know where something was and it wanted to go there . grad d : yeah ! grad c : mm - hmm . grad d : yeah . grad b : which means that we 'd need to set up an intention inside of the system . right ? which is basically , `` i do n't know where something is and i need to go there `` . grad d : eh , n grad e : yeah . grad d : ooh , do we really need to do that ? because , grad b : well , no i guess not . excel grad d : s it 's i i know it 's it 's strange , but look at it look at our bayes - net . if we do n't have let 's assume we do n't have any input from the language . right ? so there 's also nothing we could query the ontology , but we have a certain user setting . if you just ask , what is the likelihood of that person wanting to enter some something , it 'll give you an answer . grad b : sure . grad d : right ? that 's just how they are . and so , @ @ whatever that is , it 's the generic default intention . that it would find out . which is , wanting to know where something is , maybe nnn and wanting i do n't know what it 's gon na be , but there 's gon na be something that grad e : well you 're not gon na are you gon na get a variety of intentions out of that then ? i mean , you 're just talking about like given this user , what 's the th what is it what is that user most likely to want to do ? grad d : well you can observe some user and context stuff and ask , what 's the posterior probabilities of all of our decision nodes . grad e : and , have it talk about ok . grad d : you could even say , `` let 's take all the priors , let 's observe nothing `` , and query all the posterior probabilities . it - it 's gon na tell us something . right ? grad b : well , it will d r assign values to all the nodes . yes . grad d : and yes . and come up with posterior probabilities for all the values of the decision nodes . which , if we have an algorithm that filters out whatever the the best or the most consistent answer out of that , will give us the intention ex nihilo . and that is exactly what would happen if we ask it to produce an utterance , it would be b based on that extension , ex nihilo , which we do n't know what it is , but it 's there . so we would n't even have to t to kick start it by giving it a certain intention or observing anything on the decision node . and whatever that maybe that would lead to `` what is the castle ? `` , grad b : i 'm just grad d : or `` what is that whatever `` . grad b : i guess what i 'm afraid of is if we do n't , you know , set up a situation , { comment } we 'll just get a bunch of garbage out , like you know , everything 's exactly thirty percent . grad d : no yeah . so what we actually then need to do is is write a little script that changes all the settings , you know , go goes through all the permutations , which is we did a did n't we calculate that once ? grad b : well that was that was absurdly low , in the last meeting , grad d : it 's a grad b : cuz i went and looked at it cuz i was thinking , that could not be right , and it would it was on the order of twenty output nodes and something like twenty grad c : and like thirty input nodes grad b : thirty input nodes . grad c : or some grad b : so to test every output node , uh , would at least let 's see , so it would be two to the thirty for every output node ? which is very th very large . grad d : oh ! that 's n that 's that 's nothing for those neural guys . i mean , they train for millions and millions of epochs . grad b : well , i 'm talking about oh , i was gon na take a drink of my water . i 'm talking about billions and billions and billions and a number two to the thirty is like a bhaskara said , we had calculated out and bhaskara believes that it 's larger than the number of particles in the universe . and if i grad e : i do n't know if that 's right or not . th - that 's big . that 's just that 's uh it 's a billion , right ? grad b : two to the thirty ? well , two to the thirty is a billion , but if we have to do it two to the twenty times , then that 's a very very large number . grad e : right . argh . oh , ok . yeah . yeah , that 's big . grad b : cuz you have to query the node , for every a uh , or query the net two to the twenty times . grad e : sure . alright . grad b : or not two to th excuse me , twenty times . grad e : ok . so , is it t comes to twenty billion or something ? grad b : yes . as far as grad e : that 's pretty big , though . grad b : that 's @ @ that 's big . actually oh ! we calculated a different number before . how did we do that ? grad e : i remember there being some other one floating around . but anyway , uh . grad c : i do n't really know . grad e : yeah , it 's g anyway , the point is that given all of these different factors , it 's uh e it 's it 's still going to be impossible to run through all of the possible situations or whatever . grad c : ooo , it 's just big . grad e : but i mean , this 'll get us a bit closer at least , right ? i mean . grad b : if it takes us a second to do , for each one , and let 's say it 's twenty billion , { comment } then that 's twenty billion seconds , which is grad e : yeah . grad b : eva , do the math . grad c : ca n't . grad e : long ! grad b : hours and hours and hours and hours . but we can do randomized testing . grad e : tah - dah ! grad b : which probabilistically will be good enough . grad d : mm - hmm . yeah . so , it be it it 's an idea that one could n for for example run run past , um , what 's that guy 's name ? you know ? he - he 's usually here . tsk . j j jer - jerj grad e : here in the group ? jerry feldman . grad d : oh , yeah . that 's the guy . we we we we g grad b : wait , who ? grad e : yeah , i that would the g the bald guy . grad b : oh ! my advisor ! grad d : and um . so this is just an idea that 's floating around and we 'll see what happens . and um , hmm , what other news do i have ? well we fixed some more things from the smartkom system , but that 's not really of general interest , um , oh ! questions , yeah . i 'll ask eva about the e bayes and she 's working on that . how is the generation xml thing ? grad b : i 'm gon na work on that today and tomorrow . grad d : ok . no need to do it today or tomorrow even . do it next week or grad b : i 'm gon na finish it today , uh hopefully . i wan na do one of those things where i stay here . cuz uh , if i go home , i ca n't finish it . i 've tried about five times so far , where i work for a while and then i 'm like , i 'm hungry . so i go home , and then i think grad e : i 'm not going back . grad b : yeah . either that or i think to myself , i can work at home . and then i try to work at home , but i fail miserably . grad e : yeah . grad b : like i ended up at blakes last night . grad e : non - conducive . grad b : no . i almost got into a brawl . but i did not finish the uh , but i 've been looking into it . i th @ @ it 's not like it 's a blank slate . i found everything that i need and stu and uh , grad d : but st grad b : at the b uh furthermore , i told jerry that i was gon na finish it before he got back . so . grad e : that 's approaching . he 's coming back when ? uh next grad b : well , i think we think we 'll see him definitely on tuesday for the next or , no , wait . the meetings are on thursday . grad d : maybe . grad b : maybe . grad d : who knows . grad b : well , we 'll see him next week . grad e : alright . grad d : that 's good . yeah . the paper . grad b : i was thinking about that . i think i will try to work on the smartkom stuff and i 'll if i can finish it today , i 'll help you with that tomorrow , if you work on it ? i do n't have a problem with us working on it though ? so . and it grad d : so you would say it 's funky cool . grad b : i mean we just i mean it would n't hurt to write up a paper , cuz then , i mean , yeah i was talking with nancy and nancy said , you do n't know whether you have a paper to write up until you write it up . so . grad e : yeah . grad b : and since jerry 's coming back , we can run it by him too . so . grad d : yep . um , what 's your input ? grad e : well , um , i do n't have much experience with uh , conference papers for compu in the computer science realm , and so when i looked at what you had , which was apparently a complete submission , i just sort of said what just i i did n't really know what to do with it , like , this is the sort of the basic outline of the system or whatever , or or `` here 's an idea `` , right ? that 's what that paper was , `` here 's here 's one possible thing you could do `` , grad d : mm - hmm . grad e : short , eight pages , and i just do n't know what you have in mind for expanding . like i 'd i what i did n't do is go to the web site of the conference and look at what they 're looking for or whatever . grad d : mm - hmm . well , it seems to me that um grad b : wait , is this a computer science conference or is it a grad d : um , well it 's more it 's both , right ? it 's it 's sort of t cognitive , neural , psycho , linguistic , but all for the sake of doing computer science . so it 's sort of cognitive , psycho , neural , plausibly motivated , architectures of natural language processing . so it seems pretty interdisciplinary , and i mean , w w the keynote speaker is tomasello and blah - blah - blah , grad e : right . oh , yeah . grad d : so , w the the question is what could we actually do and and and keep a straight face while doing it . grad b : well , i really ca n't keep a straight face doing anything . grad d : and i my idea is , grad e : setting that aside . grad d : well , you can say we have done a little bit and that 's this , and uh sort of the rest is position paper , `` we wan na also do that `` . which is not too good . might be more interesting to do something like let 's assume um , we 're right , we have as jerry calls it , a delusion of adequacy , and take a `` where is x `` sentence , grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : and say , `` we will just talk about this , and how we cognitively , neurally , psycho - linguistically , construction grammar - ally , motivated , envision uh , understanding that `` . so we can actually show how we parse it . that should be able to we should be able to come up with , you know , a sort of a a parse . grad e : right . grad d : it 's on , just just put it on . grad a : i 'm ok . grad b : did ben harass you ? good . grad a : was he supposed to harass me ? well , he just told me that you came looking for me . grad d : you don grad a : figure this out . grad d : you will suffer in hell , you know that . grad e : backwards . there 's a s diagram somewhere which tells you how to put that grad a : i know , i did n't understand that either ! grad b : no wait . you have to put it on exactly like that , grad d : this is it . yeah . grad b : so put that those things over your ears like that . see the p how the plastic things ar arch out like that ? there we go . grad a : ok . it hurts . grad b : it hurts . it hurts real bad . grad a : it does ! i 'm sorry i did n't mean to grad e : but that 's what you get for coming late to the meeting . grad a : i 'm sorry . i 'm sorry , oh these are all the same . ok ! th this is not very on target . grad b : is your mike on ? grad a : shoot . grad d : yeah , it is . grad a : alright , you guys can continue talking about whatever you were talking about before . grad d : we 're talking about this um , alleged paper that we may , just , sort of w grad a : oh ! which johno mentioned to me . uh - huh . grad d : yeah . and i just sort of brought forth the idea that we take a sentence , `` where is the powder - tower `` , grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : and we we p pretend to parse it , we pretend to understand it , and we write about it . grad e : hmm . about how all of these things grad a : what 's the part that 's not pretend ? the writing ? grad d : ok , then we pretend to write about . grad e : the submitting to a major international conference . { comment } { comment } yeah . grad a : tha - which conference is it for ? grad d : it 's the whatever , architectures , eh you know , where there is this conference , it 's the seventh already international conference , on neu neurally , cognitively , motivated , architectures of natural language processing . grad a : oh . wow . interesting . grad d : and the keynote speakers are tomasello , macwhinney ? grad a : whinney . { comment } macwhinney . uh - huh . grad d : we - macwhinney , i think . grad a : so , interesting , both , like , child language people . grad d : yeah . yep . so maybe you wan na write something too . grad a : yeah , maybe i wan na go . um , why are they speaking at it if it grad e : mmm . mmm . grad a : is is it normally like like , dialogue systems , or , you know , other nlp - ish things ? grad d : no no no no no no no no . it 's it 's like a grad a : oh , it 's cognitive . ok . grad d : yeah . yeah . even neuro . grad a : and uh , both learning and like , comprehension , production , that kinda stuff . grad d : psycho . you could look at the web site . i 'll grad a : ok . i do n't know about it . grad d : and the ad and and the deadline is the fifteenth of june . grad a : yeah that 's pretty soon . grad d : hey . plenty of time . grad e : why , we 've got over a week ! grad d : it would be nice to go write two papers actually . yeah . and one one from your perspective , and one from our peve per per grad a : mm - hmm . i mean , th that 's the kinda thing that maybe like , um , the general uh con sort of like ntl - ish like , whatever , the previous simulation based pers { comment } maybe you 're talking about the same kind of thing . a general paper about the approach here would probably be appropriate . and good to do at some point anyway . grad d : yeah . yeah . well , i i also think that if we sort of write about what we have done in the past six months , we we we could sort of craft a nice little paper that if it gets rejected , which could happen , does n't hurt grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : because it 's something we eh grad a : having it is still a good thing . grad d : having it is a good good thing . grad a : yeah . grad d : it 's a nice exercise , it 's i usually enjoy writing papers . it 's not i do n't re regard it as a painful thing . grad a : mm - hmm . it 's fun . grad d : and um , we should all do more for our publication lists . and . it just never hurts . and keith and - or johno will go , probably . grad b : will i ? grad a : when is it and where ? grad d : in case of it 's on the twenty second of september , in saarbruecken germany . grad a : ah , it 's in germany . ah , ok . i s i see . tomasello 's already in germany anyway , so makes sense . ok . grad e : just grad a : um . ok . so , is the what are you just talking about you know , the details of how to do it , or whether to do it , or what it would be ? grad e : what would one possibly put in such a paper ? grad d : what to write about . grad a : or what to write about ? grad d : what is our what 's our take home message . what what do we actually because i mean , it i do n't like papers where you just talk about what you plan to do . i mean , it 's obvious that we ca n't do any kind of evaluation , and have no you know , we ca n't write an acl type paper where we say , `` ok , we 've done this grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : and now we 're whatever percentage better than everybody else `` . you know . grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : it 's far too early for that . but uh , we we can tell them what we think . i mean that 's never hurts to try . and um , maybe even that 's maybe the time to introduce the the new formalism that you guys have cooked up . grad a : mm - hmm . grad b : but that grad e : are in the process of grad a : how many pages ? grad b : do n't they need to finish the formalism ? grad d : it 's just like four pages . grad a : four pages ? grad d : i mean it 's it 's not even a h grad e : yeah . grad a : ok , so it 's a little thing . grad d : mm - hmm . grad b : well , you said it was four thousand lines ? is that what you s grad a : ok . four pages is , like , really not very much space . grad d : i do n't know w did you look at it ? yeah , it depends on the format . grad e : oh my gosh . oh , i thought you were i thought we were talking about something which was much more like ten or something . grad d : no that 's i mean that 's actually a problem . it 's difficu it 's more difficult to write on four pages than on eight . grad a : it 's yeah . grad e : yeah . grad a : and it 's also difficult to even if you had a lot of substance , it 's hard to demonstrate that in four pages , basically . grad e : yeah . that would be hard . grad a : i mean it 's still it 's still grad d : well i uh maybe it 's just four thousand lines . i do i do n't they do n't want any they do n't have a tex f style @ @ guide . grad a : uh - huh , uh - huh . grad d : they just want ascii . pure ascii lines , whatever . why , for whatever reason , grad a : not including figures and such ? grad d : i do n't know . i do n't know . very unspecific unfortunately . grad a : ok . well , grad d : we 'll just uh grad b : i would say that 's closer to six pages actually . four thousand lines of ascii ? grad d : ok then . it 's grad e : four thousand lines . i mean . is n't a is n't it about fifty s fifty five , sixty lines to a page ? grad d : i d do n't quote me on this . this is numbers i i have from looking o grad b : how many characters are on a line ? grad a : ascii ? grad d : let 's let 's wh wh what should we should should we uh , um , discuss this over tea and all of us look at the web ? oh , i ca n't . i 'm wizarding today . grad a : ok , look at the web page ? wha - w grad d : look at the web page and let 's talk about it maybe tomorrow afternoon ? grad a : more cues for us to find it are like , neural cons grad d : johno will send you a link . grad a : oh , you have a link . ok . ok . grad b : i got an email . by the way , keith is comfortable with us calling him `` cool keith `` . grad a : oh . cool . keith . grad e : he he decided i 'm chilling in the five - one - o . grad a : cool , `` cool keith `` . grad e : yeah . grad a : excellent . that 's a very cool t - shirt . grad e : thank you . grad d : and i 'm also flying grad e : i got this from the two one two . grad a : new york ? excellent . grad e : yeah . grad a : sorry . yes ? grad d : i 'm flying to sicily next in a w two weeks from now , grad a : oh , lucky you . grad d : w and a week of business in germany . i should mention that for you . and otherwise you have n't missed much , except for a really weird idea , but you 'll hear about that soon enough . grad a : the idea that you and i already know about ? that you already told me ? not that ok . grad d : no , no , no . yeah , that is something for the rest of the gang to to g grad e : the thing with the goats and the helicopters ? grad d : change the watchband . it 's time to walk the sheep . um . did you catch that allusion ? it 's time to walk the sheep ? it 's a a uh presumably one of the watergate codes they uh anyways , th um , um , do n't make any plans for spring break next year . that 's grad e : oh , shoot . grad d : that 's the other thing . we 're gon na do an int edu internal workshop in sicily . grad a : that 's what that 's what he says . grad d : i 've already got the funding . grad a : i kn that 's great ! grad d : so , i mean . grad a : does that mean does that mean you 'll get you 'll fly us there ? grad e : we 'll see . grad d : no , that 's yeah , that 's what it means . grad a : hhh ! ok , cool . uh - a a grad b : and he 'll put us up , too . grad a : i know i know about that part . i know about the the almond trees and stuff . not joking . name a vegetable , ok . oh , um , kiwi ? grad e : yeah . grad d : mmm , too easy . grad a : coconut . pineapple . see ? mango ? ok . ok . too easy ? grad d : too easy . yeah , mangos go everywhere . grad a : really ? grad d : so do kiwi . grad a : oh . ok , but i was trying to find something that he did n't grow on his farm . grad d : but coconut anana pineapple , that 's that 's tricky , yeah . grad a : sorry . anyway . cantaloupe . grad e : so , but we have to decide what , like , sort of the general idea of grad b : potatoes . so . sorry ! grad e : um , i mean , we 're gon na have an example case um , right ? i m the the point is to like this `` where is `` case , or something . grad d : yeah , maybe you have it would be kind of the paper ha would have , in my vision , a nice flow if we could say , well here is th the th here is parsing if you wan na do it c right , here is understanding if you wan na do it right , and you know without going into technical grad e : mm - hmm . grad a : but then in the end we 're not doing like those things right yet , right ? would that be clear in the paper or not ? grad d : that would be clear , we would i i mailed around a little paper that i have grad a : it would be like , this is the idea . oh , i did n't get that , grad d : w we could sort of say , this is grad a : did i ? oops . did i ? oops . { comment } sorry . grad b : no , y i do n't think you got it . grad d : see this , if you if you 're not around , and do n't partake in the discussions , and you do n't get any email , grad a : i 'm sorry . i 'm sorry , i 'm sorry . sorry . ok , go on . so parsing done right is like chicken done right . grad d : su so we could we could say this is what what 's sort of state of the art today . nuh ? and say , this is bad . nuh ? grad a : yeah . grad d : and then we can say , uh well what we do is this . yeah . grad a : parsing done right , interpretation done right , example . grad d : mm - hmm . yeah . and grad a : and how much to get into the cognitive neural part ? grad b : that 's the only that 's the question mark . do n't you need to reduce it if it 's a or reduce it , if it 's a cognitive neuro grad a : well , you do n't have t i mean the conference may be cognitive neural , does n't mean that every paper has to be both . like , nlp cognitive neural . grad d : yeah , and you can you can just point to the to the literature , you can say that construction - based you know grad a : so i so this paper would n't particularly deal with that side although it could reference the ntl - ish sort of , like , um , approach . grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : yeah . grad d : yeah . grad a : the fact that the methods here are all compatible with or designed to be compatible with whatever , neurological neuro neuro - biol su stuff . grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : yeah , i guess four pages you could i mean you could definitely it 's definitely possible to do it . it 's just it 'd just be small . like introducing the formalism might be not really possible in detail , but you can use an example of it . grad e : well , l looking at yeah , looking at that paper that that you had , i mean you know , like , you did n't really explain in detail what was going on in the xml cases or whatever you just sorta said well , you know , here 's the general idea , some stuff gets put in there . you know , hopefully you can you can say something like constituents tells you what the construction is made out of , you know , without going into this intense detail . grad a : yeah , yeah . so it be like using the formalism rather than you know , introducing it per se . grad e : yeah . give them the one paragraph whirlwind tour of w w what this is for , grad a : yeah . grad e : and yeah . grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : and people will sort of figure out or ask about the bits that are implicit . grad d : yeah . so this will be sort of documenting what we think , and documenting what we have in terms of the bayes - net stuff . grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : and since there 's never a bad idea to document things , no ? grad a : that 's th that 's definitely a good idea . grad d : that would be my , uh we we should sketch out the details maybe tomorrow afternoon - ish , if everyone is around . i do n't know . you probably would n't be part of it . grad e : i think so . grad d : maybe you want ? think about it . um , you may may ruin your career forever , if you appear . grad b : yeah , you might get blacklisted . grad d : and um , the uh , other thing , yeah we actually have we made any progress on what we decided , uh , last week ? i 'm sure you read the transcript of last week 's meeting in red so sh so you 're up to dated caught up . grad a : no . sorry . grad d : we decided t that we 're gon na take a `` where is something `` question , and pretend we have parsed it , and see what we could possibly hope to observe on the discourse side . grad b : remember i came in and i started asking you about how we were sor going to sort out the uh , decision nodes ? grad a : yes ! what 'd you say ? grad b : i remember you talking to me , just not what you said . grad a : i do remember you talking to me . um , a few more bits . grad b : well , there was like we needed to or uh , in my opinion we need to design a bayes another sub - bayes - net you know , it was whether it was whether we would have a bayes - net on the output and on the input , or whether the construction was gon na be in the bayes - net , grad a : oh , yeah . ok . grad b : a and outside of it , and grad a : so that was was that the question ? was that what grad b : well that was related to what we were talking about . grad d : should i introduce it as sudo - square ? grad b : yeah sure . grad d : we have to put this in the paper . if we write it . this is this is my only constraint . the th so . the sudo - square is , `` situation `` , `` user `` , `` discourse `` , right ? `` ontology `` . grad e : oh i saw the diagram in the office , grad a : oh my god , that 's amazing ! grad d : mmm . yeah . whatever . grad a : no way . grad d : is it ? grad a : someone 's gon na start making phil collins jokes . grad d : yeah . hmm ? grad a : sorry . grad b : what ? grad e : oh , god , i hope not . grad a : you guys are too young . grad e : you know like `` sussudio `` , grad a : yeah , come on . grad e : that horrible , horrible song that should never have been created . grad b : oh , oh , oh , oh . grad a : i know , that was horrible . sussudio . grad b : i 've blocked every aspect of phil collins out of my mind . grad c : what ? grad a : i 'm sorry , i have n't . not on purpose . grad e : in here grad d : oh well , also he 's talking about suicide , and that 's that 's not a notion i wan na have evoked . grad a : no , he 's not . really ? grad d : he is . grad a : oops . { comment } i did n't really listen to it , grad d : the grad a : i was too young . anyway . grad e : it sounds too rocking for that . grad a : yeah . grad e : anyway . so , what 's going on here ? so what are what was wollte der kuenstler uns damit sagen ? grad a : stop excluding me . grad d : ok , so we have tons of little things here , grad a : i ca n't believe that that 's never been thought of before . grad d : and we 've grad b : wait , what are the dots ? i do n't remember what the dots were . grad e : those are little bugs . grad a : cool keith . grad d : you know , these are our , whatever , belief - net decision nodes , and they all contribute to these things down here . grad b : oh , oh . grad a : wait , wait , what 's the middle thing ? grad d : that 's edu . grad e : that 's a c grad d : e e our e e e grad a : but wh i mean grad e : that 's grad d : you . we . us . grad a : but what is it ? grad d : well , in the moment it 's a bayes - net . and it has sort of fifty not - yet - specified interfaces . ok . eh i have taken care that we actually can build little interfaces , to other modules that will tell us whether the user likes these things and , n the or these things , and he whether he 's in a wheelchair or not , grad a : ok . is that supposed to be the international sign for interface ? grad d : i think so , yeah . grad a : mmm . ok . grad b : i 'd i 'd never seen it before either . grad a : ok . just t cool . grad d : mmm . so . grad a : yeah . grad e : cuz things fit onto that , see ? grad a : cool . grad e : in a vaguely obscene fashion . grad d : no , this is a rme core by agent design , i do n't know . grad a : that 's so great . grad d : there 's maybe a different grad e : so wait , what a what are these letters again , situr - { comment } situation , user , discourse and grad d : situation , user , d ontology . grad a : user ? grad e : ontology . grad a : what about the utterance ? grad c : discourse . grad d : that 's here . grad e : it 's grad a : oh , discourse . so that 's not like context , ok . grad d : yeah . grad e : discourse is all things linguistic , yeah . grad d : so this this includes the the current utterance plus all the previous utterances . grad a : interesting , uh - huh . user . grad d : and for example w i s i irena gurevich is going to be here eh , end of july . grad a : user . grad d : she 's a new linguist working for eml . and what she would like to do for example is great for us . she would like to take the ent ontolog grad c : ouch . grad d : so , we have discussed in terms of the eva grad a : grateful for us ? grad d : uh grad a : did you just say grateful for us ? ok , sorry . anyway . grad d : think of back at the eva vector , and johno coming up with the idea that if the person discussed the discussed the admission fee , in eh previously , that might be a good indication that , `` how do i get to the castle ? `` , actually he wants to enter . grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : or , you know , `` how do i get to x ? `` discussing the admission fee in the previous utterance , is a good indication . grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : so we do n't want a hard code , a set of lexemes , or things , that person 's you know , sort of filter , or uh search the discourse history . grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : so what would be kind of cool is that if we encounter concepts that are castle , tower , bank , hotel , we run it through the ontology , and the ontology tells us it has um , admission , opening times , it has admission fees , it has this , it has that , and then we we we make a thesaurus lexicon , look up , and then search dynamically through the uh , discourse history for occurrences of these things in a given window of utterances . grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : and that might , you know , give us additional input to belief a versus b . or e versus a . grad a : so it 's not just a particular word 's ok , so the you 're looking for a few keys that you know are cues to sorry , a few specific cues to some intention . grad b : you can dynamically look up keys , yeah . grad d : yeah . grad e : uh , so , wait so um , since this since this sort of technical stuff is going over my head , grad b : and then grep , basically . grad e : the the point is that you uh that when someone 's talking about a castle , you know that it 's the sort of thing that people are likely to wan na go into ? or , is it the fact that if there 's an admission fee , then one of the things we know about admission fees is that you pay them in order to go in ? and then the idea of entering is active in the discourse or something ? and then blah - blah - blah ? grad d : the the idea is even more general . grad e : i mean . grad d : the idea is to say , we encounter a certain entity in a in a in a utterance . so le let 's look up everything we the ontology gives us about that entity , what stuff it does , what roles it has , what parts , whatever it has . functions . and , then we look in the discourse , whether any of that , or any surface structure corresponding to these roles , functions aaa { comment } has ever occurred . grad e : oh , ok . grad d : and then , the discourse history can t tell us , `` yeah `` , or `` no `` . and then it 's up for us to decide what to do with it . t so i grad e : ok . so no , go ahead . grad d : so , we may think that if you say um , `` where is the theater `` , um , whether or not he has talked about tickets before , then we he 's probably wan na go there to see something . grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : or `` where is the opera in par - paris ? , yeah ? lots of people go to the opera to take pictures of it and to look at it , grad e : mm - hmm . ok . grad d : and lots of people go to attend a performance . grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : and , the discourse can maybe tell us w what 's more likely if we know what to look for in previous statements . and so we can hard code `` for opera , look for tickets , look for this , look for that , grad e : ok . ok . grad d : or look for mozart , look for thi `` but the smarter way is to go via the ontology and dynamically , then look up u stuff . grad e : ok . but you 're still doing look up so that when the person so the point is that when the person says , `` where is it ? `` then you sort of say , let 's go back and look at other things and then decide , rather than the other possibility which is that all through discourse as they talk about different things you know like w prior to the `` where is it `` question they say , you know , `` how much does it cost to get in , you know , to to see a movie around here `` , um , `` where is the closest theater `` the the the point is that by mentioning admission fees , that just sort of stays active now . grad d : yeah . grad e : you know . that becomes part of like , their sort of current ongoing active conceptual structure . grad d : mm - hmm . grad e : and then , um , over in your bayes - net or whatever , when when the person says `` where is it `` , you 've already got , you know since they were talking about admission , and that evokes the idea of entering , um , then when they go and ask `` where is it `` , then you 're enter node is already active grad d : mm - hmm . grad e : because that 's what the person is thinking about . grad d : yeah . grad e : i mean that 's the sort of cognitive linguistic - y way , grad d : yeah , e ultimately that 's also what we wan na get at . grad e : and probably not practical . grad d : i think that 's that 's the correct way . so , of course we have to keep memory of what was the last intention , and how does it fit to this , and what does it tell us , in terms of of the the what we 're examining . grad e : mm - hmm . mmm , yeah . grad d : and furthermore , i mean we can idealize that , you know , people do n't change topics , grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : but they do . but , even th for that , there is a student of ours who 's doing a dialogue act um , recognition module . grad e : right . mm - hmm . grad d : so , maybe , we 're even in a position where we can take your approach , which is of course much better , as to say how how do these pieces grad e : mmm . and much harder to r program . and much harder to p to program . grad d : yeah . how how do these pieces fit together ? uh - huh . and um . but , ok , nevertheless . so these are issues but we what we actually decided last week , is to , and this is , again , for your benefit is to um , pretend we have observed and parsed an utterance such as `` where is the powder - tower `` , or `` where is the zoo `` , and specify um , what what we think the the output uh , observe , out i input nodes for our bayes - nets for the sub sub - d , for the discourse bit , should be . so that and i will i will then { comment } come up with the ontology side uh , bits and pieces , so that we can say , ok we we always just look at this utterance . that 's the only utterance we can do , it 's hard coded , like srini , sort of hand parsed , hand crafted , but this is what we hope to be able to observe in general from utterances , and from ontologies , and then we can sort of fiddle with these things to see what it actually produces , in terms of output . so we need to find out what the `` where is x `` construction will give us in terms of semantics and simspec type things . grad a : just ok . just `` where is x `` ? grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : or any variants of that . grad d : yeah . no ! um , look at it this way , i yeah . what did we decide . we decided sort of the the prototypical `` where is x `` , where you know , we do n't really know , does he wan na go there , or just wan na know where it is . grad e : well we were grad d : so the difference of `` where is the railway station `` , versus where where `` where is greenland `` . nuh ? grad e : mm - hmm . grad b : uh s i was just dancing , sorry . grad d : we 're not videotaping any of this . so . grad b : uh ah grad e : so , um , we 're supposed to i mean we 're talking about sort of anything that has the semantics of request for location , right ? actually ? or , i mean , anyway , the node in the uh the ultimate , uh , in in the bayes - net thing when you 're done , the the node that we 're talking about um , is one that says `` request for location , true `` , or something like that , right ? um , and and exactly how that gets activated , you know , like whether we want the sentence `` how do i get there ? `` to activate that node or not , you know , that 's that 's sort of the issue that sort of the linguistic - y side has to deal with , right ? grad d : yeah , but it yea - nnn well actually more m more the other way around . we wanted something that represents uncertainty uh we in terms of going there or just wanting to know where it is , for example . some generic information . and so this is prototypically @ @ found in the `` where is something `` question , surface structure , which can be p you know , should be maps to something that activates both . i mean the idea is to grad b : i do n't grad e : alright , ok . grad b : hhh . i guess . i do n't grad d : let 's have it fit nicely with the paper . grad b : i do n't see unde how we would be able to distinguish between the two intentions just from the g utterance , though . grad d : the grad b : i mean , uh bef or , before we do n't before we cranked it through the bayes - net . i mean . grad d : yeah , we we would n't . that 's exactly what we want . grad b : we would ? grad d : we want to get no . we would n't . grad b : ok , but then so basically it 's just a for every construction we have a node in the net , right ? and we turn on that node . grad d : yeah . what what is this gon na exactly . what is the uh well grad b : and then given that we know that the construction has these two things , we can set up probabilities we can s basically define all the tables for ev for those grad d : yeah , it should be so we have um , i let 's assume we we call something like a loc - x node and a path - x node . and what we actually get if we just look at the discourse , `` where is x `` should activate or should hmm . should be both , whereas maybe `` where is x located `` , we find from the data , is always just asked when the person wants to know where it is , and `` how do i get to `` is always asked when the person just wants to know how to get there . right ? so we want to sort of come up with what gets uh , input , and how inter in case of a `` where is `` question . so what what would the outcome of of your parser look like ? and , what other discourse information from the discourse history could we hope to get , squeeze out of that utterance ? so define the the input into the bayes - net based on what the utterance , `` where is x `` , gives us . so definitely have an entity node here which is activated via the ontology , so `` where is x `` produces something that is s stands for x , whether it 's castle , bank , restroom , toilet , whatever . and then the ontology will tell us grad a : that it has a location or something like that ? or th the ontology will tell us where actually it is located ? grad d : no . not at all . where it is located , we have , a user proximity node here somewhere , grad a : ok . ok . grad d : e which tells us how far the user how far away the user is in respect to that uh entity . grad a : ok . so you 're talking about , for instance , the construction obviously involves this entity or refers refers to this entity , grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : and from the construction also you know that it is a location is or a thing thing that can be located . right ? ontology says this thing has a location slot . sh - and that 's the thing that is being that is the content of the question that 's being queried by one interpretation of `` where is x `` . and another one is , um , path from current user current location to { comment } that location . grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : so . so is the question i mean it 's just that i 'm not sure what the is the question , for this particular construction how we specify that that 's the information it provides ? or or asked for ? b both sides , right ? grad d : yeah , you do n't need to even do that . it 's just sort of what what would be @ @ { comment } observed in uh in that case . grad a : observed when you heard the speaker say `` where is x `` , or when when that 's been parsed ? grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : so these little circles you have by the d ? is that ? ok . ok . grad d : that 's exactly what we 're looking for . grad b : i d i just i do n't like having characterizing the constructions with location and path , or li characterizing them like that . cuz you do n't it seems like in the general case you would n't know how how to characterize them . grad d : you would n't . grad b : i mean or , for when . there could be an interpretation that we do n't have a node for in the i mean it just seems like @ @ has to have uh a node for the construction and then let the chips fall where they may . versus uh , saying , this construction either can mean location or path . and , in this cas and since since it can mean either of those things , it would light both of those up . grad d : it 's the same . grad b : thoughts ? questions ? grad e : i 'm thinking about it . grad d : it will be the same . grad e : um grad d : so i think r in here we have `` i 'll go there `` , right ? grad b : answers ? grad d : and we have our info - on . so in my c my case , this would sort of make this happy , and this would make the go - there happy . what you 're saying is we have a where - x question , where - x node , that makes both happy . right ? that 's what you 're proposing , which is , in my mind just as fine . so w if we have a construction node , `` where is x `` , it 's gon na both get the po posterior probability that it 's info - on up , grad b : mmm , yeah . grad d : info - on is true - up , and that go - there is true - up , as well . which would be exactly analogous to what i 'm proposing is , this makes uh makes something here true , and this makes something also something here true , and this makes this true - up , and this makes this true - up as well . grad e : i kinda like it better without that extra level of indirection too . you know with with this points to this points to that , and so on because i do n't know , it grad a : is - uh , grad d : yeah , because we get we get tons of constructions i think . because , you know , mmm people have many ways of asking for the same thing , grad e : yeah . grad b : yeah , sure . grad a : yeah . grad d : and grad b : i change i changed my mind actually . grad a : so i agree with that . i have a different kinda question , might be related , which is , ok so implicitly everything in edu , we 're always inferring the speaker intent , right ? like , what they want either , the information that they want , or it 's always information that they want probably , of some kind . right ? or i i do n't know , or what 's something that they grad d : the system does n't massage you , no . no . grad a : i i i do n't ok . so , um , let 's see . so i do n't know if the i mean i if th just there 's more s here that 's not shown that you it 's already like part of the system whatever , but , `` where is x `` , like , the fact that it is , you know , a speech - act , whatever , it is a question . it 's a question that , um , queries on some particular thing x , and x is that location . there 's , like , a lot of structure in representing that . grad d : yep . yeah . grad a : so that seems different from just having the node `` location - x `` and that goes into edu , right ? grad d : yeah . precisely . that 's that 's grad a : so tha is that what you 're t talking about ? grad d : so , w exactly . we have su we have specified two . grad a : wh what kinds of structure we want . grad d : ok , the next one would be here , just for mood . grad e : mm - hmm . grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : the next one would be what we can squeeze out of the uh i do n't know , maybe we wan na observe the uh , um , uh the length of of the words used , and , or the prosody and g a and t make conclusions about the user 's intelligence . grad a : ok . so in some ways grad d : i do n't know , grad a : um , so in some ways in the other sort of parallel set of mo more linguistic meetings we 've been talking about possible semantics of some construction . grad d : yeah . grad e : mm - hmm . grad a : right ? where it was the simulation that 's , according to it you know , that that corresponds to it , and as well the as discourse , whatever , conte infor in discourse information , grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : such as the mood , and , you know , other stuff . so , are we looking for a sort of abbreviation of that , that 's tailored to this problem ? cuz that that has , you know , basically , you know , s it 's in progress still it 's in development still , but it definitely has various feature slots , attributes , um , bindings between things grad d : mm - hmm . yeah . u that 's exactly r um , why i 'm proposing it 's too early to have to think of them of all of these discourse things that one could possibly observe , grad a : uh - huh . mm - hmm . grad d : so let 's just assume grad a : for the subset of grad d : human beings are not allowed to ask anything but `` where is x `` . this is the only utterance in the world . what could we observe from that ? grad a : ok . that exactly `` where is x `` , grad d : in ter grad a : not the the choices of `` where is x `` or `` how do i get to x `` . just `` where is x `` . grad d : just just `` where is x `` . grad e : yeah . grad d : and , but you know , do it do it in such a way that we know that people can also say , `` is the town hall in front of the bank `` , so that we need something like a w wh focus . nuh ? should be should be there , that , you know , this the whatever we get from the grad a : wait , so do , or do not take other kinds of constructions into account ? grad d : well , if you if you can , oh definitely do , grad a : ok . where possible . ok . grad d : where possible . right ? if i if if it 's not at all triggered by our thing , then it 's irrelevant , grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : and it does n't hurt to leave it out for the moment . um , but grad a : ok . um , it seems like for instance , `` where is x `` , the fact that it might mean um , `` tell me how to get to x `` , like do y so , would you wan na say that those two are both , like those are the two interpretations , right ? the the ones that are location or path . so , you could say that the s construction is a question asking about this location , and then you can additionally infer , if they 're asking about the location , it 's because they wan na go to that place , in which case , the you 're jumping a step step and saying , `` oh , i know where it is grad d : mm - hmm . grad e : yeah . grad a : but i also know how to get they wan na seem they seem to wan na get there so i 'm gon na tell them `` . so there 's like structure grad e : right , th this it 's not it 's not that this is sort of like semantically ambiguous between these two . grad a : i do you kn sort of uh , that grad d : mm - hmm . grad e : it 's really about this but why would you care about this ? well , it 's because you also want to know this , or something like that right ? grad a : so it 's like you infer the speaker intent , grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : and then infer a plan , a larger plan from that , for which you have the additional information , grad e : yeah . grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : you 're just being extra helpful . grad d : think uh , well this is just a mental exercise . grad a : yeah . grad d : if you think about , focus on this question , how would you design that ? grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : is it do you feel confident about saying this is part of the language already to to detect those plans , and why would anyone care about location , if not , you know and so forth . or do you actually , i mean this is perfectly legitimate , and i i would not have any problems with erasing this and say , that 's all we can activate , based on the utterance out of context . grad a : mm - hmm . and just by an additional link oh . grad d : what ? grad a : right , grad e : right . grad a : like , grad d : and then the the the miracle that we get out the intention , go - there , happens , based on what we know about that entity , about the user , about his various beliefs , goals , desires , blah - blah - blah . grad a : with context and enough user information , yeah . grad e : yeah . grad d : absolutely fine . but this is the sort of thing , i i propose that we think about , so that we actually end up with um , um , nodes for the discourse and ontology so that we can put them into our bayes - net , never change them , so we all there is is `` where is x `` , and , eva can play around with the observed things , and we can run our better javabayes , and have it produce some output . and for the first time in th in in the world , we look at our output , and um and see uh whether it it 's any good . you know ? i mean , grad e : here 's hoping . here 's hoping . right ? now cross your fingers . grad d : yeah , i i mean , for me this is just a ba matter of curiosity , i wan na would like to look at uh , what this ad - hoc process of designing a belief - net would actually produce . grad e : yeah . { comment } yeah . grad d : if if we ask it where is something . and , maybe it also h enables you to think about certain things more specifically , um , come up with interesting questions , to which you can find interesting answers . and , additionally it might fit in really nicely with the paper . because if if if we want an example for the paper , i suggest there it is . grad e : um - hmm . yeah . grad d : so th this might be a nice opening paragraph for the paper as saying , `` you know people look at kinds of at ambiguities `` , and um , in the literature there 's `` bank `` and whatever kinds of garden path phenomenon . grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : and we can say , well , that 's all nonsense . a , a , uh these things are never really ambiguous in discourse , b , b , do n't ever occur really in discourse , but normal statements that seem completely unambiguous , such as `` where is the blah - blah `` , actually are terribly complex , and completely ambiguous . grad e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad d : and so , what every everybody else has been doing so far in in in you know , has been completely nonsensical , and can all go into the wastepaper bin , and the only grad e : that 's always a good way to begin . yeah . yeah . grad d : yeah . and the the the only grad b : i am great . grad d : yeah . grad e : all others are useless . grad d : yeah . grad e : that 's good . grad d : nice overture , but , you know , just not really ok , i 'm eja exaggerating , but that might be , you know , saying `` hey `` , you know , some stuff is is actually complex , if you look at it in in in the vacuum grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : and and ceases to be complex in reality . and some stuff that 's as that 's absolutely straightforward in the vacuum , is actually terribly complex in reality . would be nice sort of , uh , also , nice , um bottom - up linguistics , um , type message . grad e : mm - hmm . true . grad d : versus the old top - down school . i 'm running out of time . ok . grad b : when do you need to start wizarding ? grad d : at four ten . ok , this is the other bit of news . the subjects today know fey , so she ca n't be here , and do the wizarding . so i 'm gon na do the wizarding and thilo 's gon na do the instructing . also we 're getting a a person who just got fired uh , from her job . uh a person from oakland who is interested in maybe continuing the wizard bit once fey leaves in august . and um , she 's gon na look at it today . which is good news in the sense that if we want to continue , after the thir thir after july , we can . we could . and , um and that 's also maybe interesting for keith and whoever , if you wan na get some more stuff into the data collection . remember this , we can completely change the set - up any time we want . grad e : mm - hmm . ok . grad d : look at the results we 've gotten so far for the first , whatever , fifty some subjects ? grad a : fifty ? you 've had fifty so far , or ? grad d : no , we 're approaching twenty now . but , until fey is leaving , we surely will hit the some of the higher numbers . grad a : yeah . hmm . grad d : and um , so that 's cool . can a do more funky stuff . grad e : sure . yeah , i 'll have to look more into that data . is that around ? like , cuz that 's pretty much getting posted or something right away when you get it ? or ? i guess it has to be transcribed , huh ? grad d : we have uh , eh found someone here who 's hand st hand transcribing the first twelve . first dozen subjects grad e : uh - huh . grad d : just so we can build a a language model for the recognizer . but , um so those should be available soon . the first twelve . and i can ch ch st e grad e : you know i mean you know that i that i looked at the first the first one and got enough data to keep me going for , you know , probably most of july . so . but , um . yeah , a probably not the right way to do it actually . grad d : but you can listen to a y y y you can listen to all of them from your solaris box . if you want . grad e : right . </s>
<s> what was said in future work ? </s> grad b : well , like in ai they generally do the take in , and then they also do the generation phase , like nancy 's thing . or uh , you remember , in the the hand thing in one - eighty - two , like not only was it able to recognize but it was also to generate based upon situations . you mean that sort of thing ? grad d : absolutely . and once you 've done that what we can do is have the system ask itself . and answer , understand the answer , ask something else , and enter a dialogue with itself . so the the ba basic the same idea as having two chess computers play against each other . grad e : except this smacks a little bit more of a schizophrenic computer than ai . grad d : yeah you c if you want , you can have two parallel machines um , asking each other . what would that give us ? would a be something completely weird and strange , and b , i if you look at all the factors , we will never observe people let 's say , in wheelchairs under you know , in under all conditions , grad e : that 's good . grad d : you know , when they say `` x `` , and there is a ride at the goal , and the parking is good , we can never collect enough data . it 's it 's it 's not possible . grad e : mm - hmm . right , right . grad d : but maybe one could do some learning . if you get the system to speak to itself , you may find n break downs and errors and you may be able to learn . and make it more robust , maybe learn new things . and um , so there 's no no end of potential things one could get out of it , if that works . and he would like to actually work on that with us . grad b : well then , he probably should be coming back a year from now . grad d : so yeah , i w see the the generation bit , making the system generate generate something , { comment } is should n't be too hard . grad b : well , once the system understands things . grad e : yeah . no problem . grad b : i just do n't think i think we 're probably a year away from getting the system to understand things . grad d : yeah . well , if we can get it to understand one thing , like our `` where is `` run through we can also , maybe , e make it say , or ask `` where is x ? `` or not . grad e : mmm , i do n't know . e i 'm sort of have the impression that getting it to say the right thing in the right circumstances is much more difficult than getting it to understand something given the circumstances and so on , you know , i mean just cuz it 's sort of harder to learn to speak correctly in a foreign language , rather than learning to understand it . right ? i mean just the fact that we 'll get the point is that getting it to understand one construction does n't mean that it will n always know exactly when it 's correct to use that construction . right ? grad d : it 's it 's uh well , i 've i 've done generation and language production research for fo four four and a half years . and so it 's it 's you 're right , it 's not the same as the understanding . it 's in some ways easier and some ways harder . nuh ? grad e : yeah . grad d : but , um , i think it 'd be fun to look at it , or into that question . grad e : nnn , yeah . grad d : it 's a pretty strange idea . and so that 's that 's but grad b : the basic idea i guess would be to give allow the system to have intentions , basically ? cuz that 's basically what needs to be added to the system for it . grad d : well , look at th eee , i think even think even what it would be the the prior intention . so let 's uh uh , let 's say we have this grad b : well we 'd have to seed that , i mean . grad d : no . let 's we have to we have some some top - down processing , given certain setting . ok , now we change nothing , and just say ask something . right ? what would it ask ? grad b : it would n't know what to ask . i mean . grad d : it shur grad b : unless it was in a situation . we 'd have to set up a situation where , it did n't know where something was and it wanted to go there . grad d : yeah ! grad c : mm - hmm . grad d : yeah . grad b : which means that we 'd need to set up an intention inside of the system . right ? which is basically , `` i do n't know where something is and i need to go there `` . grad d : eh , n grad e : yeah . grad d : ooh , do we really need to do that ? because , grad b : well , no i guess not . excel grad d : s it 's i i know it 's it 's strange , but look at it look at our bayes - net . if we do n't have let 's assume we do n't have any input from the language . right ? so there 's also nothing we could query the ontology , but we have a certain user setting . if you just ask , what is the likelihood of that person wanting to enter some something , it 'll give you an answer . </s>
<s> why was the project fit to be included in a conference paper ? </s> grad b : good . grad a : was he supposed to harass me ? well , he just told me that you came looking for me . grad d : you don grad a : figure this out . grad d : you will suffer in hell , you know that . grad e : backwards . there 's a s diagram somewhere which tells you how to put that grad a : i know , i did n't understand that either ! grad b : no wait . you have to put it on exactly like that , grad d : this is it . yeah . grad b : so put that those things over your ears like that . see the p how the plastic things ar arch out like that ? there we go . grad a : ok . it hurts . grad b : it hurts . it hurts real bad . grad a : it does ! i 'm sorry i did n't mean to grad e : but that 's what you get for coming late to the meeting . grad a : i 'm sorry . i 'm sorry , oh these are all the same . ok ! th this is not very on target . grad b : is your mike on ? grad a : shoot . grad d : yeah , it is . grad a : alright , you guys can continue talking about whatever you were talking about before . grad d : we 're talking about this um , alleged paper that we may , just , sort of w grad a : oh ! which johno mentioned to me . uh - huh . grad d : yeah . and i just sort of brought forth the idea that we take a sentence , `` where is the powder - tower `` , grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : and we we p pretend to parse it , we pretend to understand it , and we write about it . grad e : hmm . about how all of these things grad a : what 's the part that 's not pretend ? the writing ? </s>
<s> what was said about the bayes-net ? </s> grad a : so these little circles you have by the d ? is that ? ok . ok . grad d : that 's exactly what we 're looking for . grad b : i d i just i do n't like having characterizing the constructions with location and path , or li characterizing them like that . cuz you do n't it seems like in the general case you would n't know how how to characterize them . grad d : you would n't . grad b : i mean or , for when . there could be an interpretation that we do n't have a node for in the i mean it just seems like @ @ has to have uh a node for the construction and then let the chips fall where they may . versus uh , saying , this construction either can mean location or path . and , in this cas and since since it can mean either of those things , it would light both of those up . grad d : it 's the same . grad b : thoughts ? questions ? grad e : i 'm thinking about it . grad d : it will be the same . grad e : um grad d : so i think r in here we have `` i 'll go there `` , right ? grad b : answers ? grad d : and we have our info - on . so in my c my case , this would sort of make this happy , and this would make the go - there happy . what you 're saying is we have a where - x question , where - x node , that makes both happy . right ? that 's what you 're proposing , which is , in my mind just as fine . so w if we have a construction node , `` where is x `` , it 's gon na both get the po posterior probability that it 's info - on up , grad b : mmm , yeah . grad d : info - on is true - up , and that go - there is true - up , as well . which would be exactly analogous to what i 'm proposing is , this makes uh makes something here true , and this makes something also something here true , and this makes this true - up , and this makes this true - up as well . grad e : i kinda like it better without that extra level of indirection too . you know with with this points to this points to that , and so on because i do n't know , it grad a : is - uh , grad d : yeah , because we get we get tons of constructions i think . because , you know , mmm people have many ways of asking for the same thing , grad e : yeah . grad b : yeah , sure . grad a : yeah . grad d : and grad b : i change i changed my mind actually . grad a : so i agree with that . i have a different kinda question , might be related , which is , ok so implicitly everything in edu , we 're always inferring the speaker intent , right ? like , what they want either , the information that they want , or it 's always information that they want probably , of some kind . right ? or i i do n't know , or what 's something that they grad d : the system does n't massage you , no . no . grad a : i i i do n't ok . so , um , let 's see . so i do n't know if the i mean i if th just there 's more s here that 's not shown that you it 's already like part of the system whatever , but , `` where is x `` , like , the fact that it is , you know , a speech - act , whatever , it is a question . it 's a question that , um , queries on some particular thing x , and x is that location . there 's , like , a lot of structure in representing that . grad d : yep . yeah . grad a : so that seems different from just having the node `` location - x `` and that goes into edu , right ? grad d : yeah . precisely . that 's that 's grad a : so tha is that what you 're t talking about ? grad d : so , w exactly . we have su we have specified two . grad a : wh what kinds of structure we want . grad d : ok , the next one would be here , just for mood . grad e : mm - hmm . grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : the next one would be what we can squeeze out of the uh i do n't know , maybe we wan na observe the uh , um , uh the length of of the words used , and , or the prosody and g a and t make conclusions about the user 's intelligence . grad a : ok . so in some ways grad d : i do n't know , grad a : um , so in some ways in the other sort of parallel set of mo more linguistic meetings we 've been talking about possible semantics of some construction . grad d : yeah . grad e : mm - hmm . grad a : right ? where it was the simulation that 's , according to it you know , that that corresponds to it , and as well the as discourse , whatever , conte infor in discourse information , grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : such as the mood , and , you know , other stuff . so , are we looking for a sort of abbreviation of that , that 's tailored to this problem ? cuz that that has , you know , basically , you know , s it 's in progress still it 's in development still , but it definitely has various feature slots , attributes , um , bindings between things grad d : mm - hmm . yeah . u that 's exactly r um , why i 'm proposing it 's too early to have to think of them of all of these discourse things that one could possibly observe , grad a : uh - huh . mm - hmm . grad d : so let 's just assume grad a : for the subset of grad d : human beings are not allowed to ask anything but `` where is x `` . this is the only utterance in the world . what could we observe from that ? grad a : ok . that exactly `` where is x `` , grad d : in ter grad a : not the the choices of `` where is x `` or `` how do i get to x `` . just `` where is x `` . grad d : just just `` where is x `` . grad e : yeah . grad d : and , but you know , do it do it in such a way that we know that people can also say , `` is the town hall in front of the bank `` , so that we need something like a w wh focus . nuh ? should be should be there , that , you know , this the whatever we get from the grad a : wait , so do , or do not take other kinds of constructions into account ? grad d : well , if you if you can , oh definitely do , grad a : ok . where possible . ok . grad d : where possible . right ? if i if if it 's not at all triggered by our thing , then it 's irrelevant , grad a : mm - hmm . grad d : and it does n't hurt to leave it out for the moment . um , but grad a : ok . um , it seems like for instance , `` where is x `` , the fact that it might mean um , `` tell me how to get to x `` , like do y so , would you wan na say that those two are both , like those are the two interpretations , right ? the the ones that are location or path . so , you could say that the s construction is a question asking about this location , and then you can additionally infer , if they 're asking about the location , it 's because they wan na go to that place , in which case , the you 're jumping a step step and saying , `` oh , i know where it is grad d : mm - hmm . grad e : yeah . grad a : but i also know how to get they wan na seem they seem to wan na get there so i 'm gon na tell them `` . so there 's like structure grad e : right , th this it 's not it 's not that this is sort of like semantically ambiguous between these two . grad a : i do you kn sort of uh , that grad d : mm - hmm . grad e : it 's really about this but why would you care about this ? well , it 's because you also want to know this , or something like that right ? grad a : so it 's like you infer the speaker intent , grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : and then infer a plan , a larger plan from that , for which you have the additional information , grad e : yeah . grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : you 're just being extra helpful . grad d : think uh , well this is just a mental exercise . grad a : yeah . grad d : if you think about , focus on this question , how would you design that ? grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : is it do you feel confident about saying this is part of the language already to to detect those plans , and why would anyone care about location , if not , you know and so forth . or do you actually , i mean this is perfectly legitimate , and i i would not have any problems with erasing this and say , that 's all we can activate , based on the utterance out of context . grad a : mm - hmm . and just by an additional link oh . grad d : what ? grad a : right , grad e : right . grad a : like , grad d : and then the the the miracle that we get out the intention , go - there , happens , based on what we know about that entity , about the user , about his various beliefs , goals , desires , blah - blah - blah . grad a : with context and enough user information , yeah . grad e : yeah . grad d : absolutely fine . but this is the sort of thing , i i propose that we think about , so that we actually end up with um , um , nodes for the discourse and ontology so that we can put them into our bayes - net , never change them , so we all there is is `` where is x `` , and , eva can play around with the observed things , and we can run our better javabayes , and have it produce some output . and for the first time in th in in the world , we look at our output , and um and see uh whether it it 's any good . you know ? i mean , grad e : here 's hoping . here 's hoping . right ? now cross your fingers . grad d : yeah , i i mean , for me this is just a ba matter of curiosity , i wan na would like to look at uh , what this ad - hoc process of designing a belief - net would actually produce . grad e : yeah . { comment } yeah . grad d : if if we ask it where is something . and , maybe it also h enables you to think about certain things more specifically , um , come up with interesting questions , to which you can find interesting answers . and , additionally it might fit in really nicely with the paper . because if if if we want an example for the paper , i suggest there it is . grad e : um - hmm . yeah . grad d : so th this might be a nice opening paragraph for the paper as saying , `` you know people look at kinds of at ambiguities `` , and um , in the literature there 's `` bank `` and whatever kinds of garden path phenomenon . grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : and we can say , well , that 's all nonsense . a , a , uh these things are never really ambiguous in discourse , b , b , do n't ever occur really in discourse , but normal statements that seem completely unambiguous , such as `` where is the blah - blah `` , actually are terribly complex , and completely ambiguous . grad e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad d : and so , what every everybody else has been doing so far in in in you know , has been completely nonsensical , and can all go into the wastepaper bin , and the only grad e : that 's always a good way to begin . yeah . yeah . grad d : yeah . and the the the only grad b : i am great . grad d : yeah . grad e : all others are useless . grad d : yeah . grad e : that 's good . grad d : nice overture , but , you know , just not really ok , i 'm eja exaggerating , but that might be , you know , saying `` hey `` , you know , some stuff is is actually complex , if you look at it in in in the vacuum grad e : mm - hmm . grad d : and and ceases to be complex in reality . and some stuff that 's as that 's absolutely straightforward in the vacuum , is actually terribly complex in reality . would be nice sort of , uh , also , nice , um bottom - up linguistics , um , type message . grad e : mm - hmm . true . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . oh , that 's not gon na work . oh , alright . okay . okay . um alright . marketing : uh , uh , um . project manager : i 'll just put that there . uh as you all know we 're here to create a brand new fantastic remote . uh i 'm nick debusk , i 'm the project manager . uh we 'll just get started with everyone kind of letting each other know who they are and what you 're doing , what your what your role is um . go ahead . marketing : okay . i am corinne whiting and i will be the marketing expert and in each of the three phases i will have a different role . in the function design phase i will be talking about user requirement specification , and this means what needs and desires are to be fulfilled , and i 'll be doing research to figure this out . in the conceptual design phase i will be dealing with trend watching and i 'll be doing marketing research on the web . and then finally in the um detailed design phase i will be doing product evaluation and so i will be collecting the requirements and ranking all the requirements to see how we did . project manager : 'kay . user interface : hiya , i 'm ryan . um i 'm the user interface designer . um likewise i 've three different roles for each stage of design . um the functional design is looking at the tex technical functions of a remote control . um in the concept design , the user interface , how the user reacts with the the product . and the detailed design um sort of like the user interface design , what they might be looking for , uh things like fashions , what makes wha how we 're gon na make it special . that 's about it . industrial designer : right . i 'm manuel and i 'm the industrial designer in in this project um . in the functional design phase i 'm i 'll be dealing mostly with the requirements , um we 'll discuss what the prog what functions the the product has to fulfil and so and so on . um i suppose we 'll work pretty much together on that one . um um in the conceptual design um i 'll be pro mostly dealing with properties and materials um of our product . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and uh the detailed design in the detailed design i 'll be concerned with the look and feel of the product itself , um so we 're pretty much working together obviously on the design front here . okay . project manager : okay . um so we 've got our opening , our our agenda is the opening , uh acquaintance which we 've kinda done . uh tool training , project plan discussion and then closing . user interface : marketing : project manager : uh grand total of twenty five minutes we have here . um so we are putting together a new remote control . um we want it to be something original . um of course we 're a not only a electronics company but a fashion um conscious electronics company , so we want it to be trendy um and we want it to be easy to use . um we 've got the functional design , conceptual design and detailed design um which basically is is the three of you um . and w uh well um functional design um . um do we have um any ideas of of maybe d let 's just throw out some ideas of what kind of remote control we want to have , and then we can go into how we 're gon na design it and and how we 're gon na do the detailing on it . user interface : yeah . well uh s function of remote control is just just you know , change channels is its main function . project manager : so we want it to be um a tv remote or i i mean do we want it to to do other things besides just be a a television remote ? user interface : oh right . i suppose you c try make it a universal remote project manager : 'kay . user interface : for could work on all sort of electrical products in in one person 's house . but , you know , they all sorta have the same role changing channels , volumes and then programming . industrial designer : project manager : mm-hmm . 'kay . user interface : i think they all work on the same prin principle as well sorta like i do n't actually know . but is it just infra-red ? is that standard ? project manager : i i think yeah , yeah , r universal remote . user interface : ye yeah . project manager : um this is my first uh go-round with creating a remote control , marketing : huh . project manager : so marketing : ours too . user interface : project manager : i think we 're all in the same boat here . um user interface : um one thing i thought of with the remote control is you always lose 'em . project manager : okay . user interface : so if there 's a g a way of finding it quite easily , i thought that 'd be quite good quite a good feature . marketing : mm . ch project manager : so we should we should set our remote control up to where it has a uh marketing : like a tracking device ? project manager : like a tracking device or or like a a user interface : oh you can get those key well you could whistle or make a noise project manager : it makes a noise , user interface : and it 'd beep . project manager : there 's a button on the tv that you press industrial designer : mm , mm . project manager : and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : right . project manager : 'kay . marketing : be good . industrial designer : so user interface : generally , all remotes are sort of quite similar in their appearance . project manager : yeah . do we want user interface : just long . project manager : so they 're kinda like long and rectangular . user interface : yeah . project manager : do we want something crazy ? user interface : black usually . project manager : you know , we want something new that 's gon na stand out . user interface : yeah . marketing : lot more modern . project manager : a m a modern so our remote should be user interface : i think so . maybe sorta spherical or something . a ball . industrial designer : marketing : maybe like user-friendly , like a little user interface : yeah . marketing : you know , where you can use both hands , like a little keyboard type thing . user interface : people i thought maybe , because people always tend to throw a remote control about the place to one another if it was in a ball , project manager : 'kay . user interface : and maybe the actual controls are inside or something . industrial designer : well there are of course certain restrictions , you ca n't have it be any form and fulfil all functions at the same time , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so there are always the some restrictions we have to apply here . um however um one question is how stable is that thing supposed to be , that refers to the material , pretty much um . what are we gon na build that thing out of ? how sturdy is it gon na be ? do we want it to last longer or rather have people whatever , have to buy one every half a year ? project manager : okay so yeah , so we want it to be sturdy , user interface : yeah . project manager : we want it to to hold up to somebody 's child , you know , throwing it across the room or , as you said , people kinda throw it , so ball-shaped , uh you know , if it were ball-shaped maybe , user interface : yeah . project manager : then it user interface : it could be cased on the outside and t everything could be inside . project manager : 'kay . um so we want it to be modern , fun , sturdy , um so our form and our function . um we want it to be um easy to find . um what else it what else do we want it to to do ? so we want it to be universal . it 's something that we 're supposed to sell for about twenty five euros um and you know , goals for profits are i think somewhere around uh fifty million euros , what they wan na make on it , so . marketing : mm . also since we 're partners of the international remote control association , maybe we wan na make it something that would globally appeal . project manager : 'kay . marketing : that 's more on the research end , but the marketing . project manager : so marketing , you know , how maybe uh marketing , you could s find out what is the most universally um appealing remote control out there . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : and maybe as far as design goes , maybe we could have different ones for different target audiences , project manager : 'kay . marketing : 'cause maybe one wo n't apply to all of the countries we 're targeting . user interface : ye small . industrial designer : right . project manager : um do you guys have any ideas for what it should look like ? maybe we could draw it up on the on the board over there . some ideas ? we want it to be a b a ball , user interface : i 'd i could draw sorta the ball idea . project manager : you know , we 'll draw up we 'll draw up the ball and maybe th um where the buttons are located . user interface : my original idea was just simply sort of a sphere , where maybe you this is where it 's connected together , and then when you open it out , it could fol it could be maybe flip , like a flip phone , and then when you fold it out the middle maybe a hinge that 'll have to be the strongest part of it . if that if we did use a hinge , or if it was just two parts , industrial designer : user interface : and then you 'd have just sorta you you you know , your buttons . thing is inside i think , sometimes remotes have too many buttons , so maybe as simple as possible , um as few buttons inside as possible . um , i dunno , what 's the idea for . just something maybe if you ha if it had like if some kind of like light or something or lights around it . it 's looking a bit like something out of star wars at the moment though , to be fair . marketing : project manager : user interface : but yeah . marketing : futuristic . industrial designer : user interface : that was that was a sorta simple idea i had project manager : uh-huh . user interface : and then you know you could about right , it would almost be like a ball . so that was just just an idea i had . i do n't know whether anybody else has other ideas ? industrial designer : right . one problem you 'd get with this design is um the ball is a nice idea because of it 's stability really , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but of course , since it 's a ball , it 'll roll , so we 'd have to have it flat on one side at least , down here somewhere , user interface : yeah . maybe f yeah . industrial designer : take away that part . that 's one of the big issues . also also you risk the hinges here . that 's that 's um a problem . user interface : yeah , that 's g that 's a good idea . yeah . the idea it did n't have to necessarily be f a hinge , industrial designer : that 's that 's interesting of course , user interface : that was just one idea though . industrial designer : but that 's of course a weak point , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : how would we go about um making you know getting rid of our weak points ? what i mean would we just have a flat spot on the bottom of the ball ? user interface : marketing : project manager : not to put you on the spot , industrial designer : e no no , project manager : but industrial designer : uh uh . project manager : what did you say your title was again ? marketing : project manager : you 're the the industrial designer . industrial designer : uh , i 'm your industrial designer , marketing : industrial designer : so i b well , project manager : industrial designer : the point is that well maybe i dunno . the shape is perhaps not the most ideal . project manager : okay . industrial designer : as as stable as it is , there must be a compromise between um stability and design here , so . user interface : well i i suppose that things become design . but i mean i marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i was trying to think of like the design of others . i ca n't think of anything other than a long rectangle for remote , project manager : yeah . user interface : maybe small , sort of fatter ones , but there 's nothing being done sort of out of left field , yeah . project manager : it 's not new , it 's not innovative , it 's you know , everybody does long remote because it 's easy , user interface : yeah . project manager : it 's it 's stable um . marketing : 'kay , i 'll draw something . project manager : so if marketing : what ? project manager : no , go ahead . marketing : my idea was just to have it be kind of like a keyboard type shape , you know , like video games user interface : yeah . marketing : l so . but maybe i mean that would be kinda big and bulky . we could also try to do the hinge thing , so it could like flip out that way . i do n't know . that 's my idea . user interface : i think definitely doing something different marketing : yeah . user interface : is a good idea . i mean maybe design something , that 's sort of like suppose not everybody 's everybody 's hand 's the same , but something that would maybe fit in the hand easier . project manager : something with a grip . marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : yeah , with a grip . project manager : yeah . because even i suppose even with the ball user interface : it still might be hard to project manager : it 's user interface : it still not the ho easiest thing to hold , yeah . project manager : it might not be the easiest to hold onto um . so perhaps the the joystick the the keyboard idea might work better . user interface : like yeah . project manager : but then again , people like to use one hand to flip and one hand to hold their soda , so maybe maybe we user interface : yeah . marketing : true . user interface : it 's d yeah . i think it 's definitely got to be a a one-handed a one-handed job . project manager : i feel like i 'm just shooting everything down here . user interface : marketing : that 's fine . project manager : uh um marketing : you 're the boss , you 're allowed to . industrial designer : well with the one-handed design you also have the the problem of the size w 'cause you know from cell phones , they can be too small . so if the remote is too small it marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : if it 's small it probably looks better , but may not be th as functional . so for that there 's project manager : okay , so industrial designer : so project manager : unfortunately we 've got about five minutes here to come up with our um remote control idea and start rolling with it . um we 've talked about our experiences with remote control and um we 've got a couple ideas um . let 's see here . what if we had what if we had not only um say we went with the ball the ball function um , but maybe we give it sort of grips along the side s um to make it easier to hold on to . so you know um s so it 's easier to hold onto that way . user interface : yeah . project manager : course that 'll then remove some of our our ball . unless this unless this part were raised , so say the cover flips over and covers that part . so the grip is no , that would n't work either um . but if we 're gon na make it flat on the bottom , then that eliminates our ball anyways . so if it were flat on the bottom and then had the sorta grips on the side here i guess , um and then flat uh and then we have the problem with the hinge . so if we 're flat on the bottom , it 's not gon na roll away , it 'll stay where we want . industrial designer : the question is also , i dunno , d do you really always want to open that thing when you have to use it ? project manager : mm , that 's true . industrial designer : it 's probably going to lie around opened all the time anyway , so i do n't know if a lid is a good idea . from stabil stability point of view uh it certainly is , but also you have to face it and take into account the more of these things break by accident , uh the more we sell . so it 's do n't make it too stable uh . project manager : so we do n't have it flip open . we just have a ball user interface : but then maybe to go back to the to th s something along those things then . industrial designer : to the other design . project manager : okay , so then we forget the ball . industrial designer : it looks cool . marketing : looks cool though . project manager : it looks cool , but it 's really not it 's not functional um . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh functional . project manager : so we 've got our sort of keyboard kind . what if we flipped it around here , so that it were um sorry , that does n't look anything like what you had there . um so it 's up and down , you hold it this way . user interface : yeah . project manager : course then it 's it 's like the rectangular again , only with a couple of jutting out points . marketing : industrial designer : right . right . project manager : but it 's one-handed um . industrial designer : question is what makes those game pads functional ? w i think that 's pretty much the form for full hand . so it 's a round shape underneath that makes it comfy , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right , makes it nice , so that 's the essential part . except for that i think we 'll not probably not get a get away from some longer design . project manager : yeah . marketing : right . industrial designer : 'cause you also have to know which way around to point this thing . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : you know , all project manager : because it does n't have a cord , like joysticks do . industrial designer : that dif batteries right , and batteries go weak as well , so um after a while you have to point it towards the uh towards the equipment you wan na control with it , right ? so , have to m show which is the front , which is the back . project manager : is it possible to have it to where it would work with a like a sensor on either side ? so that either way you 're pointing it it would work . industrial designer : i suppose you could do that . o of course the more technology you stick in that , the more it 'll cost , so . project manager : more expensive and yeah . industrial designer : course you can do that . project manager : 'kay . um industrial designer : i mean of course it 'll be evident after a while or if you look at it , it 'll it 'll be evident which way around to point it , since you have the the numbers and the and the the buttons and stuff , project manager : true . industrial designer : but um it 's rather about an instinctual thing , user interface : put it industrial designer : like you just grab it , you do n't have to s look at it , you know , which way around to point it . otherwise the design of or the the point of putting two sensors on both sides um would probably work . user interface : even if you designed it in some in a way that you know , is n't a rectangle , but still pointed in a direction that had definite points . so if that 's your thing and you got something like that instead , marketing : yeah . user interface : and there 's your s you kn you know which way you 're gon na pointing it . project manager : 'kay . user interface : um marketing : sorry to interrupt , but we have a warning to finish . project manager : are we out of time ? marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , well , just to finish up , should we s go with this plan , start making some are good ideas , what are not . industrial designer : let 's . user interface : does it say what does it say for n industrial designer : obviously user interface : it says on there what we need to do for the next meeting , i think . project manager : uh . must finish now , so . and then marketing will look and see what uh what people want . industrial designer : alright . marketing : great . project manager : okay . and project manager will design a better meeting for next time around , be a little bit more prepared . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : and uh alright , good meeting . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about remote control functional design ? </s> user interface : yeah . well uh s function of remote control is just just you know , change channels is its main function . project manager : so we want it to be um a tv remote or i i mean do we want it to to do other things besides just be a a television remote ? user interface : oh right . i suppose you c try make it a universal remote project manager : 'kay . user interface : for could work on all sort of electrical products in in one person 's house . but , you know , they all sorta have the same role changing channels , volumes and then programming . industrial designer : project manager : mm-hmm . 'kay . user interface : i think they all work on the same prin principle as well sorta like i do n't actually know . but is it just infra-red ? is that standard ? project manager : i i think yeah , yeah , r universal remote . user interface : ye yeah . project manager : um this is my first uh go-round with creating a remote control , marketing : huh . project manager : so marketing : ours too . user interface : project manager : i think we 're all in the same boat here . um user interface : um one thing i thought of with the remote control is you always lose 'em . project manager : okay . user interface : so if there 's a g a way of finding it quite easily , i thought that 'd be quite good quite a good feature . marketing : mm . ch project manager : so we should we should set our remote control up to where it has a uh marketing : like a tracking device ? project manager : like a tracking device or or like a a user interface : oh you can get those key well you could whistle or make a noise project manager : it makes a noise , user interface : and it 'd beep . project manager : there 's a button on the tv that you press industrial designer : mm , mm . project manager : and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : right . project manager : 'kay . marketing : be good . industrial designer : so user interface : generally , all remotes are sort of quite similar in their appearance . project manager : yeah . do we want user interface : just long . project manager : so they 're kinda like long and rectangular . user interface : yeah . project manager : do we want something crazy ? user interface : black usually . project manager : you know , we want something new that 's gon na stand out . user interface : yeah . marketing : lot more modern . project manager : a m a modern so our remote should be user interface : i think so . maybe sorta spherical or something . a ball . industrial designer : marketing : maybe like user-friendly , like a little user interface : yeah . marketing : you know , where you can use both hands , like a little keyboard type thing . user interface : people i thought maybe , because people always tend to throw a remote control about the place to one another if it was in a ball , project manager : 'kay . user interface : and maybe the actual controls are inside or something . industrial designer : well there are of course certain restrictions , you ca n't have it be any form and fulfil all functions at the same time , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so there are always the some restrictions we have to apply here . um however um one question is how stable is that thing supposed to be , that refers to the material , pretty much um . what are we gon na build that thing out of ? how sturdy is it gon na be ? do we want it to last longer or rather have people whatever , have to buy one every half a year ? project manager : okay so yeah , so we want it to be sturdy , user interface : yeah . project manager : we want it to to hold up to somebody 's child , you know , throwing it across the room or , as you said , people kinda throw it , so ball-shaped , uh you know , if it were ball-shaped maybe , user interface : yeah . project manager : then it user interface : it could be cased on the outside and t everything could be inside . </s>
<s> summarize group discussion on remote control appearance and function design ? </s> user interface : i think so . maybe sorta spherical or something . a ball . industrial designer : marketing : maybe like user-friendly , like a little user interface : yeah . marketing : you know , where you can use both hands , like a little keyboard type thing . 'kay , i 'll draw something . project manager : so if marketing : what ? project manager : no , go ahead . marketing : my idea was just to have it be kind of like a keyboard type shape , you know , like video games user interface : yeah . marketing : l so . but maybe i mean that would be kinda big and bulky . we could also try to do the hinge thing , so it could like flip out that way . i do n't know . that 's my idea . user interface : i think definitely doing something different marketing : yeah . user interface : is a good idea . i mean maybe design something , that 's sort of like suppose not everybody 's everybody 's hand 's the same , but something that would maybe fit in the hand easier . project manager : something with a grip . marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : yeah , with a grip . project manager : yeah . because even i suppose even with the ball user interface : it still might be hard to project manager : it 's user interface : it still not the ho easiest thing to hold , yeah . project manager : it might not be the easiest to hold onto um . so perhaps the the joystick the the keyboard idea might work better . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about possible detailed designings of remote control ? </s> user interface : my original idea was just simply sort of a sphere , where maybe you this is where it 's connected together , and then when you open it out , it could fol it could be maybe flip , like a flip phone , and then when you fold it out the middle maybe a hinge that 'll have to be the strongest part of it . if that if we did use a hinge , or if it was just two parts , industrial designer : user interface : and then you 'd have just sorta you you you know , your buttons . thing is inside i think , sometimes remotes have too many buttons , so maybe as simple as possible , um as few buttons inside as possible . um , i dunno , what 's the idea for . just something maybe if you ha if it had like if some kind of like light or something or lights around it . it 's looking a bit like something out of star wars at the moment though , to be fair . marketing : project manager : user interface : but yeah . marketing : futuristic . industrial designer : user interface : that was that was a sorta simple idea i had project manager : uh-huh . user interface : and then you know you could about right , it would almost be like a ball . so that was just just an idea i had . i do n't know whether anybody else has other ideas ? industrial designer : right . one problem you 'd get with this design is um the ball is a nice idea because of it 's stability really , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but of course , since it 's a ball , it 'll roll , so we 'd have to have it flat on one side at least , down here somewhere , user interface : yeah . maybe f yeah . industrial designer : take away that part . that 's one of the big issues . also also you risk the hinges here . that 's that 's um a problem . user interface : yeah , that 's g that 's a good idea . yeah . the idea it did n't have to necessarily be f a hinge , industrial designer : that 's that 's interesting of course , user interface : that was just one idea though . industrial designer : but that 's of course a weak point , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : how would we go about um making you know getting rid of our weak points ? what i mean would we just have a flat spot on the bottom of the ball ? user interface : marketing : project manager : not to put you on the spot , industrial designer : e no no , project manager : but industrial designer : uh uh . project manager : what did you say your title was again ? marketing : project manager : you 're the the industrial designer . industrial designer : uh , i 'm your industrial designer , marketing : industrial designer : so i b well , project manager : industrial designer : the point is that well maybe i dunno . the shape is perhaps not the most ideal . project manager : okay . industrial designer : as as stable as it is , there must be a compromise between um stability and design here , so . user interface : well i i suppose that things become design . but i mean i marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i was trying to think of like the design of others . i ca n't think of anything other than a long rectangle for remote , project manager : yeah . user interface : maybe small , sort of fatter ones , but there 's nothing being done sort of out of left field , yeah . project manager : it 's not new , it 's not innovative , it 's you know , everybody does long remote because it 's easy , user interface : yeah . project manager : it 's it 's stable um . marketing : 'kay , i 'll draw something . project manager : so if marketing : what ? project manager : no , go ahead . marketing : my idea was just to have it be kind of like a keyboard type shape , you know , like video games user interface : yeah . marketing : l so . but maybe i mean that would be kinda big and bulky . we could also try to do the hinge thing , so it could like flip out that way . i do n't know . that 's my idea . user interface : i think definitely doing something different marketing : yeah . user interface : is a good idea . i mean maybe design something , that 's sort of like suppose not everybody 's everybody 's hand 's the same , but something that would maybe fit in the hand easier . project manager : something with a grip . marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : yeah , with a grip . project manager : yeah . because even i suppose even with the ball user interface : it still might be hard to project manager : it 's user interface : it still not the ho easiest thing to hold , yeah . project manager : it might not be the easiest to hold onto um . so perhaps the the joystick the the keyboard idea might work better . user interface : like yeah . project manager : but then again , people like to use one hand to flip and one hand to hold their soda , so maybe maybe we user interface : yeah . marketing : true . user interface : it 's d yeah . i think it 's definitely got to be a a one-handed a one-handed job . project manager : i feel like i 'm just shooting everything down here . user interface : marketing : that 's fine . project manager : uh um marketing : you 're the boss , you 're allowed to . industrial designer : well with the one-handed design you also have the the problem of the size w 'cause you know from cell phones , they can be too small . so if the remote is too small it marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : if it 's small it probably looks better , but may not be th as functional . so for that there 's project manager : okay , so industrial designer : so project manager : unfortunately we 've got about five minutes here to come up with our um remote control idea and start rolling with it . um we 've talked about our experiences with remote control and um we 've got a couple ideas um . let 's see here . what if we had what if we had not only um say we went with the ball the ball function um , but maybe we give it sort of grips along the side s um to make it easier to hold on to . so you know um s so it 's easier to hold onto that way . user interface : yeah . project manager : course that 'll then remove some of our our ball . unless this unless this part were raised , so say the cover flips over and covers that part . so the grip is no , that would n't work either um . but if we 're gon na make it flat on the bottom , then that eliminates our ball anyways . so if it were flat on the bottom and then had the sorta grips on the side here i guess , um and then flat uh and then we have the problem with the hinge . so if we 're flat on the bottom , it 's not gon na roll away , it 'll stay where we want . industrial designer : the question is also , i dunno , d do you really always want to open that thing when you have to use it ? project manager : mm , that 's true . industrial designer : it 's probably going to lie around opened all the time anyway , so i do n't know if a lid is a good idea . from stabil stability point of view uh it certainly is , but also you have to face it and take into account the more of these things break by accident , uh the more we sell . so it 's do n't make it too stable uh . project manager : so we do n't have it flip open . we just have a ball user interface : but then maybe to go back to the to th s something along those things then . industrial designer : to the other design . project manager : okay , so then we forget the ball . industrial designer : it looks cool . marketing : looks cool though . project manager : it looks cool , but it 's really not it 's not functional um . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh functional . project manager : so we 've got our sort of keyboard kind . what if we flipped it around here , so that it were um sorry , that does n't look anything like what you had there . um so it 's up and down , you hold it this way . user interface : yeah . project manager : course then it 's it 's like the rectangular again , only with a couple of jutting out points . marketing : industrial designer : right . right . project manager : but it 's one-handed um . industrial designer : question is what makes those game pads functional ? w i think that 's pretty much the form for full hand . so it 's a round shape underneath that makes it comfy , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right , makes it nice , so that 's the essential part . except for that i think we 'll not probably not get a get away from some longer design . project manager : yeah . marketing : right . industrial designer : 'cause you also have to know which way around to point this thing . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : you know , all project manager : because it does n't have a cord , like joysticks do . industrial designer : that dif batteries right , and batteries go weak as well , so um after a while you have to point it towards the uh towards the equipment you wan na control with it , right ? so , have to m show which is the front , which is the back . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think about the design of spherical remote control when discussing detailed designings of ideal remote control ? </s> industrial designer : but of course , since it 's a ball , it 'll roll , so we 'd have to have it flat on one side at least , down here somewhere , user interface : yeah . maybe f yeah . industrial designer : take away that part . that 's one of the big issues . also also you risk the hinges here . that 's that 's um a problem . user interface : yeah , that 's g that 's a good idea . yeah . the idea it did n't have to necessarily be f a hinge , industrial designer : that 's that 's interesting of course , user interface : that was just one idea though . industrial designer : but that 's of course a weak point , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : how would we go about um making you know getting rid of our weak points ? what i mean would we just have a flat spot on the bottom of the ball ? user interface : marketing : project manager : not to put you on the spot , industrial designer : e no no , project manager : but industrial designer : uh uh . project manager : what did you say your title was again ? marketing : project manager : you 're the the industrial designer . industrial designer : uh , i 'm your industrial designer , marketing : industrial designer : so i b well , project manager : industrial designer : the point is that well maybe i dunno . the shape is perhaps not the most ideal . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> how did the team reach an agreement to address potential problems with the joystick keyboard when discussing detailed designings of ideal remote control ? </s> project manager : so perhaps the the joystick the the keyboard idea might work better . user interface : like yeah . project manager : but then again , people like to use one hand to flip and one hand to hold their soda , so maybe maybe we user interface : yeah . marketing : true . user interface : it 's d yeah . i think it 's definitely got to be a a one-handed a one-handed job . project manager : i feel like i 'm just shooting everything down here . user interface : marketing : that 's fine . project manager : uh um marketing : you 're the boss , you 're allowed to . industrial designer : well with the one-handed design you also have the the problem of the size w 'cause you know from cell phones , they can be too small . so if the remote is too small it marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : if it 's small it probably looks better , but may not be th as functional . so for that there 's project manager : okay , so industrial designer : so project manager : unfortunately we 've got about five minutes here to come up with our um remote control idea and start rolling with it . um we 've talked about our experiences with remote control and um we 've got a couple ideas um . let 's see here . what if we had what if we had not only um say we went with the ball the ball function um , but maybe we give it sort of grips along the side s um to make it easier to hold on to . so you know um s so it 's easier to hold onto that way . user interface : yeah . project manager : course that 'll then remove some of our our ball . unless this unless this part were raised , so say the cover flips over and covers that part . so the grip is no , that would n't work either um . but if we 're gon na make it flat on the bottom , then that eliminates our ball anyways . so if it were flat on the bottom and then had the sorta grips on the side here i guess , um and then flat uh and then we have the problem with the hinge . so if we 're flat on the bottom , it 's not gon na roll away , it 'll stay where we want . industrial designer : the question is also , i dunno , d do you really always want to open that thing when you have to use it ? project manager : mm , that 's true . industrial designer : it 's probably going to lie around opened all the time anyway , so i do n't know if a lid is a good idea . from stabil stability point of view uh it certainly is , but also you have to face it and take into account the more of these things break by accident , uh the more we sell . so it 's do n't make it too stable uh . project manager : so we do n't have it flip open . we just have a ball user interface : but then maybe to go back to the to th s something along those things then . industrial designer : to the other design . project manager : okay , so then we forget the ball . industrial designer : it looks cool . marketing : looks cool though . project manager : it looks cool , but it 's really not it 's not functional um . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : uh functional . project manager : so we 've got our sort of keyboard kind . what if we flipped it around here , so that it were um sorry , that does n't look anything like what you had there . um so it 's up and down , you hold it this way . user interface : yeah . project manager : course then it 's it 's like the rectangular again , only with a couple of jutting out points . marketing : industrial designer : right . right . project manager : but it 's one-handed um . industrial designer : question is what makes those game pads functional ? w i think that 's pretty much the form for full hand . so it 's a round shape underneath that makes it comfy , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right , makes it nice , so that 's the essential part . except for that i think we 'll not probably not get a get away from some longer design . project manager : yeah . marketing : right . industrial designer : 'cause you also have to know which way around to point this thing . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : you know , all project manager : because it does n't have a cord , like joysticks do . industrial designer : that dif batteries right , and batteries go weak as well , so um after a while you have to point it towards the uh towards the equipment you wan na control with it , right ? so , have to m show which is the front , which is the back . project manager : is it possible to have it to where it would work with a like a sensor on either side ? so that either way you 're pointing it it would work . industrial designer : i suppose you could do that . o of course the more technology you stick in that , the more it 'll cost , so . project manager : more expensive and yeah . industrial designer : course you can do that . project manager : 'kay . um </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about price issues and target groups of remote control when discussing functional and conceptual design of ideal remote control . </s> project manager : 'kay . um so we want it to be modern , fun , sturdy , um so our form and our function . um we want it to be um easy to find . um what else it what else do we want it to to do ? so we want it to be universal . it 's something that we 're supposed to sell for about twenty five euros um and you know , goals for profits are i think somewhere around uh fifty million euros , what they wan na make on it , so . marketing : mm . also since we 're partners of the international remote control association , maybe we wan na make it something that would globally appeal . project manager : 'kay . marketing : that 's more on the research end , but the marketing . project manager : so marketing , you know , how maybe uh marketing , you could s find out what is the most universally um appealing remote control out there . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : and maybe as far as design goes , maybe we could have different ones for different target audiences , project manager : 'kay . marketing : 'cause maybe one wo n't apply to all of the countries we 're targeting . user interface : ye small . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay , welcome everyone to our next meeting . i 'm busy writing and busy leading the meeting , but um i 've prepared a little presentation once again um or at least an agenda i think uh the biggest part of the presentation will be uh on your side . um we are here at the conceptual design meeting , which is hereby opened . um once again i will try to uh write some minutes which i just from the previous meeting uh placed inside our project folder , which was quite some typing . um today we once again have uh three presentations , if i 'm right , and after that we will take a decision on the remote control concepts . and just as the last time we have forty minutes to accomplish that . okay , well industrial designer : project manager : i 'd say let 's start with the first presentation . marketing : 'kay . project manager : um in the same order as last time ? industrial designer : w sure . user interface : mm . alright . project manager : okay . well , take it away . user interface : industrial designer : okay uh welcome you all . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : components design , um uh first of all uh i would like to uh uh accommodate some of those uh things i uh uh elaborate some of the things i did . i i elaborated on the concept . what should be um uh said about uh the components , uh its properties and what kind of materials should we use to uh to make uh one of those r remote controls . uh well first of all i 've uh d subtracted some of the components that is that are used uh are w w um you know from what uh the remote control 's formed . uh first of all , the case , the case , the surrounding of the of the the remote control . i would like to uh give you an idea of uh how i thought about . marketing : do n't destroy my giraffe . industrial designer : giraffe 's gone now . marketing : user interface : industrial designer : okay um the case was is made from rubber , i suppose . there 's one of the because when you use a remote control a lot of people uh will uh will uh drop their remote control marketing : drop it . industrial designer : and they break uh becau the uh titanium was also an option . but uh it 's a very expensive material . uh rubber is , i think , uh the best suitable uh material uh to use uh for our uh for our remote control . um it 's poss it 's also possible to uh create fancy colours with rubber . uh rubber l makes it easy to uh to to it lets lets itself colour . uh titanium uh you have to paint it and with that uh it 's possible to scratch it or uh yeah make it ugly . uh rubber uh the total uh piece of rubber that 's sor uh that 's that 's used uh to make the case is uh the same colour , so if you scratch it it 's still the same colour , perhaps uh it 's a little bit damaged . but it 's a very strong material . um i h i had an idea single covered uh curved , sorry , single curved . user interface : industrial designer : uh so it 's t two dimensional . i think it 's uh it 's best to draw oh user interface : it 's a colour . industrial designer : green . marketing : bright colour . fancy colour . forward . industrial designer : uh new . blank . okay . marketing : you have to go t industrial designer : let 's make it uh black . okay . i thought of an idea like this . oh that . um delete . blank . okay . so it also looks nice when it 's on your table . so you get uh it does n't lay flat down on the table , but it 's c it 's stands . marketing : oh it 's a side view . industrial designer : side view yes it 's side view so uh i i 'm not technically good at th three d_ modelling , user interface : marketing : industrial designer : um uh it 's just an idea i had so it 's uh it 's very uh so its also looks nice when it 's on the table . um the graphical user interface and the buttons , uh we also thought about that already . uh i thought about uh the lcd touch screen , which is uh is easy to clean too . one of the great uh advantages of the lcd screen you just use some or uh another uh cleaning uh uh cl some cleaning stuff . user interface : industrial designer : and um it should be made of strong plastic and it should be bright . well i already uh s uh explained some properties of that material and i think uh well we also we almost concluded about that uh this should uh be uh our uh button component . marketing : true . industrial designer : so uh uh that 's all about uh the buttons . uh the batteries , uh we also thought about that already , uh will be chargeable with uh uh an option for a mount station so you can uh put the uh the remote control in a mount station so its charges itself up instead of uh plugging it in or something like that . questions , ? user interface : no . marketing : no no no no no . just looking . industrial designer : and they should be long lasting , not uh not be empty uh in about uh two minutes or uh thirty minutes or forty minutes of use . and next step is the chip uh th the component that 's uh makes or transmits the signal to the television . uh there was an option to use s a rather simple chip but i think uh because uh of our uh highly uh requiring uh requirements , there should be an advanced chip in it user interface : industrial designer : with uh also the ability to uh facilitate speaker speech recognition uh which unfortunately is still in a test phase , so uh there should be some more uh investigation on that side . uh my personal preferences uh i also overheard in the last meeting that there shou we should use uh our own business colours . that was correct , was n't it ? project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . i think they are rather boring for um for use with rubber . user interface : project manager : well , business colours i thought it was the the slogan and uh the corporate image , so yeah , it needs colour , industrial designer : okay they should be m sh they should be in mind , project manager : but i do n't think you have to make the entire thing in the corporate colour . industrial designer : was n't it ? okay so it d it does n't says uh to uh have the slogan ? project manager : it must be recognisable . industrial designer : okay okay . well that 's possible of course . user interface : you can put the r_ and r_ . industrial designer : we could make a little r_ and r_ on the top of the machine . uh so they are pretty boring , i suggest , because just the availability with rubber to make fantastic colours uh and also in a lot of possible colours , so it 's possible to make very uh fancy uh remote controls which peopl uh who people in which people will find they 're uh interesting . and uh will buy uh them faster when they look at the same old grey or black uh colours . uh s as i said uh before rubber is uh is impossible to damage severely imp instead of uh of course you can break it when you you when you break it in s for example with a pair of scissors or something like that , but i if you drop it it 's not uh broken uh right away s instead of using uh plastic , hard plastic or uh titanium . and i personally liked uh the single curved uh remote control , because it yeah it makes sense . user interface : industrial designer : okay . well that 's all about my uh my findings . user interface : alright . project manager : okay , thank you . user interface : i will go next . marketing : mm mm mm . next . user interface : alright so industrial designer : user interface : i thought a little bit about the interface . uh how it should look . and uh uh we uh determined that will not be no buttons , but only an lcd screen , so i had to uh look on that . and the design is therefore based on what we just uh uh thought of . uh first there are some new findings and new technology for speech recognition . and this is that uh um uh uh you you ask you give a question through through the device and it answers you . and they already uh put this in an in a coffee maker . and so that it you say uh good morning , uh coffee maker , and it says t says to you back good morning joe or what 's your name . this uh and there 's an easy way to uh program that uh you say record into the device into the speaker and then you say the question and three seconds later you say the answer and then when you say the question it gives you the answer . um perhaps it 's useful , perhaps for because people um lose the remote , they can yell uh remote where are you and calls or something . industrial designer : marketing : it 's true . user interface : and perhaps we could uh implement that . industrial designer : user interface : and then i have to go out of the presentation because i tried to make some kind of a a idea of how it should look like industrial designer : oh my god . user interface : but i ca n't draw , so uh do n't make too much of it . i tried to uh the lcd screen i tried to sort of to draw . i thought uh at least uh the icon for the volume . i do n't know if there is an icon for the program , but industrial designer : not just a p_ . user interface : yeah . marketing : p_ yeah , just a p_ . industrial designer : .. . user interface : and then the buttons above and uh below marketing : user interface : the and the and the mute button also recognisable as an icon . um . marketing : where 's where 's the button for two ? user interface : i forgot that one . i thought i forgot something , marketing : okay . user interface : but uh . industrial designer : user interface : and uh and uh the numbers , that should be a bit larger i think it 's not really on scale and and so forth . marketing : does n't matter . user interface : um an options button . and i thought the the button for teletext apar uh apart because it 's not really options , i think . it 's uh options is the settings of the remote and of the tv and that kind of uh thing . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so could call it settings or something . but this is a bit uh how i thought it . and uh the lcd uh somewhere on the remote . perhaps we could be more curvy the remote perhaps should , so that it 's better in your hand or something uh . industrial designer : oh okay , user interface : but uh and and uh a microph microphone for the speech uh recognition if we want to implement that . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh and then uh if you press the op options button , now we have an example of and then you should get the other options with what what you could do and that you could do with something like this this . industrial designer : oh yeah , . user interface : and uh it 's also uh i thought think we discussed uh earlier that uh older people do n't really want to use uh these extra settings . and older people a also do n't really want to use this uh th this kind of option menus . so they want to u use one button and then something happens , and not choose with uh this kind of uh and you could put in a an a really s little scrolling device on the side of your uh remote , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you could scroll scroll uh across these uh things . industrial designer : mm . okay . user interface : that 's an option . and that was my uh finding dinge . project manager : thanks . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : now our third industrial designer : go danny , go danny . project manager : team member with his presentation . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay , i 'm going to tell you something about a trend watching . the trends from the past years , what the people like , what the youngsters like , what the elderly people liked about shapes , colours , material and stuff . 'kay . the method i used was like i told i watched the trends from the past years about colours , shapes , material they wanted uh from elderly and young people . so we can keep that in mind for designing f uh the device itself . findings i made . the most important thing people liked last year was that the remote control should be look look fancy . the second important thing that w should be if inv in innov innovative , okay , like the lcd screen that 's quite innovative so that should be great meeting for this . and the third thing is it should be easy to use . i think with only one menu , four button , channel , volume , it should also be enough for easy to use . the personal preferences for the young people , they liked fruity colours like uh banana yellow , uh strawberry red and stuff . industrial designer : fruity ? user interface : grass green . industrial designer : fruity . marketing : yeah . like that . the round shapes , and soft material m materials like the rubber . industrial designer : mm . okay . marketing : it should be soft uh i it should feeling spongy or s sponge bob like things . user interface : let 's build it into a sponge . industrial designer : marketing : th elderly people like au colours which y are being seen in autumn like um woods um dark brown , red , deep reds and stuff . they liked square shapes with round edges . and hard materials like wood , um titanium . they those kind of materials they liked . this is a bit like the young peoples like the fruity colours , innovative , all the colours you see , the blue , the red , the white , the yellow , that stuff . and then i th i i personally thought the front side of the shape should be something for the youngsters like like project manager : oh y marketing : this or something . it 's it 's a bit like a banana . and the colour should be yellow , or something . and for the elderly people just plain old . because we decided to have two kind of remotes , two designs , or was it two colours ? user interface : it was one remote , i think , marketing : different colours , yeah . user interface : different colours . marketing : we should decide whether it 's going to be with round shapes . i think like my colleague , you said , is that 's e better , or for the elderly people something like like the ipod or something , with round squares . simple but easy to use . so that 's it . project manager : so for the older people , a more traditional uh form . industrial designer : okay . marketing : that is my yeah , like the older o older colours i can maybe user interface : you could you could uh change the colours , that was also the idea . i do n't know which shape you should should take , marketing : yeah . colours th the elderly people project manager : yeah , i guess changing colours will be easier than changing uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : changing just the shape of the uh remote control ? project manager : the shape of it . user interface : perhaps you could find something in the middle . round but square . industrial designer : yeah , s round corners , but s but square , yeah . project manager : but maybe then both groups wo n't buy it . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : user interface : uh i i if you do it uh uh square , with round corners but a little uh in the middle of it uh i do you know what i mean ? industrial designer : yeah i know what you mean , kind of like a . user interface : wait , like like this uh a bit . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so it 's a bit square , but it 's also a bit uh round . industrial designer : kinda like a beer glass . yeah . user interface : so but then industrial designer : i know what you mean . user interface : same sides . but that 's uh industrial designer : it 's also easy to to have to to put in your hand . user interface : yeah but that 's also how other remotes are shaped , so that 's uh but perhaps that 's a good thing , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so that 's easy to use . people know the industrial designer : will recognise that 's as a remote control . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh look something like that . autumn colours like red , brown . industrial designer : uh when i saw your d oh . marketing : they liked the wood a lot . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : so maybe we could give it like wooden loo look look or something in that colour . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , kinda like old cars , uh marketing : and a bit bit old school style renaissance , medieval kind of things . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : swords . industrial designer : let 's put it all together . marketing : those kind of yeah , those kind of things . so you see the big difference between the young people ? fresh , exciting . user interface : yeah . marketing : and the old people , old and boring . user interface : but that 's easily to do with the colour , i think . project manager : marketing : so sorry ? user interface : that 's easy to do with the colours , i think . marketing : yeah i think it 's it 's easier to do in colour than in shape . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah we think so too . marketing : because otherwise we have to get different shapes , and colour way easier than yeah the shapes . in material yeah rubber , rubber is , like i said , young people like more soft materials and spongy ones industrial designer : marketing : and the old people like plain wood . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we have to decide if we 're going to use real hard rubber , or soft rubber . or something something between that . user interface : yeah think uh also in between . industrial designer : soft rubber . marketing : yeah soft rubber which you can you can feel in it . industrial designer : yeah i know what you um . user interface : i do n't think you should be able to mould it , marketing : or user interface : but industrial designer : it should should n't be . marketing : no . or or wh what 's something harder . no no no but but you have to like like like a a eraser or something . that 's the bit you can press it in , user interface : yeah . marketing : or something harder . user interface : bit like this kind of rubber . this uh marketing : yeah , something like this , yeah . user interface : but it 's quite hard , this . marketing : yeah it 's quite hard but you can press it in . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's feels kind s spongy . user interface : industrial designer : spongy . marketing : something . user interface : i do n't think it 's rubber . marketing : no . n n n project manager : so we need a spongy feeling . user interface : uh did you have something about uh marketing : are you going to invite sponge bob , maybe he can industrial designer : yeah . project manager : user interface : so we should first decide about shape , i think . industrial designer : ding ding . user interface : which uh marketing : yeah i think that 's the better thing to do . user interface : then you can fit the lcd screen in it , and can decide uh . industrial designer : um i also s uh ca n't help but notice that you uh used an you had a remote control user interface : industrial designer : and the lcd screen was uh rather small . um . marketing : w i think that lcd screen should be like user interface : it it 's supposed to be bit s bit s bit industrial designer : .. . this was your size , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but i think it should be larger . marketing : yeah three quarter of the of the industrial designer : yeah , three quarters . so uh so you do n't have to put your oh . marketing : yeah the buttons wo n't get that small when the lcd screen is industrial designer : uh new , blank . so uh when you get this uh user interface : ooh industrial designer : uh kinda like this . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or should it be larger ? marketing : larger i think . industrial designer : larger ? because you want to put your hands user interface : but if you pu now you can put your hand there and then you wo n't touch the screen . industrial designer : you want marketing : becau because you have user interface : perhaps that 's best . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah okay , true , true , true true . industrial designer : your thumb here . user interface : but not on the screen because yeah industrial designer : yeah . user interface : that 's uh that 's an idea . marketing : yeah . user interface : looks a bit like a game boy now . industrial designer : because when you put your f yeah but if yo if you make the the lcd screen as large as the remote control itself , uh you 'll you 'll always get some user interface : you always touch it , industrial designer : you user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah yeah yeah yeah . industrial designer : going to be very greasy and stuff . marketing : but it wo n't get that small because you have how much ? nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen buttons on the screen . user interface : yeah . marketing : one to zero , the two digit , industrial designer : yeah you do n't want it too small . how yeah how large marketing : you have to you have to because some fat people with d thick fingers will press three buttons at same time . industrial designer : yeah they have thick fingers . but if you wan na make it in international , japanese uh people got uh rather small hands marketing : yeah true , industrial designer : and we got these large marketing : but yeah , we have we have the zoom option , right ? industrial designer : zoom opt ah yeah of course , yeah . you can make it larger to to uh to uh with accompanying uh greater fields to push the button . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . and we wo n't include a a pen , or something to point , marketing : yeah . project manager : hey , we we want to do it with our fingers , right ? industrial designer : your fingers , yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : y you could include a pen industrial designer : you do n't want uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because if you lose the pen uh if you lose the pen uh you ca n't use marketing : use a pen you you c you can lose the pen . project manager : yeah but i think people want to use a remote with with their fingers because th they 're used to that marketing : yeah the fingers , yeah . user interface : yeah o yeah , if they think it 's handy to use a pen . project manager : and user interface : yeah i think this uh this is a good size for the screen . i do n't know how how large the actual remote should be but a little bit like this , or something . project manager : and maybe we have to add a tissue to remove the grease from all the fingers , huh . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah you can do whatever uh any uh cloth . marketing : yeah but that that can be with plain soft tissue . yeah , project manager : okay well marketing : you can buy those at project manager : maybe , if i can interrupt you , maybe i should uh should show some points on which we uh should take a decision . industrial designer : sure . project manager : so we can discuss these points . those points um energy question mark . how how should we uh supply the thing with energy and how are we going to do it with separate docking station and then put in it . uh chip on print and case . those are points my uh coach advised me to discuss here , but i hope you have ideas about them . marketing : user interface : i think energy were batteries and then uh and uh industrial designer : the docking station . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . so that 's the the the first point . marketing : maybe it 's better to to include rechargeable batteries project manager : we already decided that on the previous meeting . industrial designer : w user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : which you can recharge through the docking station . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . just like with the telephone . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so if the badg the batteries are dead industrial designer : i kinda like your marketing : then you can re you can uh change them . industrial designer : yeah you got some uh some of those uh uh wireless uh mice ? mouse . computer mouse . marketing : yeah yeah yeah like those . industrial designer : kinda like those kind of batteries . user interface : but it should be th i think normal batteries , marketing : yep . user interface : not not like two or two uh marketing : yeah , normal plain you no normal plain batteries you can buy at the supermarket or retail shop . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : simple rechargeable uh batteries . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . um what was with the chip on print ? industrial designer : the chip on print ? um uh you got ta f yeah . i think so . chip on print with a with a simple uh a sim not a simple but a marketing : print plate . industrial designer : we also discussed that . did n't we ? project manager : yeah but how did this how does that with a lcd screen ? you still have a print plate . industrial designer : uh marketing : yeah yeah yeah . you always have a print plate . industrial designer : beg your pardon ? marketing : you always have a print plate , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah sure , of course , yeah . marketing : right ? always , so i dunno what w what we have to decide about that . project manager : yeah well it 's a good question . user interface : marketing : project manager : it just was in there industrial designer : well uh project manager : and i did n't have any information about it , industrial designer : chip on print , i think what they mean uh with the regular rubber buttons that you got , uh it 's always clear for the remote control when you press uh a certain button . project manager : but mm-hmm . industrial designer : but when you got a lcd screen , with no uh with not the buttons are not always on the same place , marketing : yeah , okay . but industrial designer : for example if you enlarge a button , or if you got several options uh appearing on your screen , uh the co-ordinations are n't always the same . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : when you got a regular button , th the button of stand-by is always on the same place and you got on the and on the marketing : yeah okay , but the p print plate of l_ lcd screen is more advanced than a normal print plate , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so that that 's not of any discussion , i think . project manager : well you need some kind of c_p_u_ , i guess . industrial designer : i suppose so . marketing : mm , i do n't i dunno i do n't think that 's industrial designer : it is a simple c_p_u_ but it does n't marketing : yeah yeah okay but i d i i do n't know if nor o s it 's quite a simple lcd . industrial designer : yeah because it has to uh b marketing : yeah , it 's quite a simple lcd screen . i think they do n't need that big of c_p_u_ . industrial designer : yeah but it the the remote control has to know whether you 're in a settings menu or just uh you just want to turn up the volume . marketing : yeah , okay , true true . true . industrial designer : so it has to have some kind of a calculation unit or c_p_u_ user interface : industrial designer : to know uh in which state you are and uh which button you are pressing in at the right moment . project manager : mm-hmm . because we 're projecting projecting the buttons on the lcd screen . industrial designer : yeah . and a touch screen makes it uh possible to uh to get the co-ordination of your finger on the screen . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and the case , yeah we already discussed the case , user interface : it 's rubber . industrial designer : we wanted to make it from rubber user interface : yeah but but a hard rubber like this ? industrial designer : and uh user interface : or softer rubber or industrial designer : uh hard rubber i think . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that 's the easy to ha uh to to uh marketing : yeah . user interface : it bounces back from the floor where you throw it . industrial designer : yeah . yeah sure , look . marketing : we have different colours . user interface : yeah yeah this in different colours ? marketing : so the shapes is something between the square shapes with round colo corners and a round shapes ? no i do n't think , i think it 's more round than square . user interface : yeah it 's a bit . but i think it should be a bit longer , perhaps . marketing : so it meets i think it meets more the young people than the older people . project manager : yeah . but that 's what we want , . user interface : yeah . i think so too . marketing : yeah , that 's our target . yeah . industrial designer : it 's our main target . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : lower than forty years , i think industrial designer : well and how about my idea uh of making it um with one single curve ? marketing : it was . oh yeah that that i think i thought that was a quite good user interface : yeah . industrial designer : because it 's a gadget and you want to show it off , of course . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah yeah you have a fancy design , then , right away . user interface : yeah . project manager : so industrial designer : because it marketing : you can put it on your table with the lcd screen , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : you do n't have to put it get it in your hand , you can put it next to you industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then dive it in user interface : yeah , that 's a good idea . marketing : and . yeah . industrial designer : it 's a lot easier . user interface : yeah , alright . industrial designer : so , so marketing : so project manager : okay so industrial designer : you got uh user interface : and then industrial designer : did you write that down ? uh got a single curved uh rubber f uh fancy coloured remote control . user interface : marketing : you ca n't you you ca n't oh , you c you can draw it on your paper and then load it on the industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , you can uh project manager : yeah but i wrote it down . user interface : it 's pretty easy but and marketing : and load it on the the user the server . project manager : what about the user interface , there are also some some questions uh about the concepts i think you have some ideas on that . user interface : yeah , project manager : you you showed your drawing . user interface : i had what i just uh i should again . i miss a few buttons , but . well . at least uh what we should also have on , i just remembered , um a menu to go back through the first uh if if you touch options , you ca n't go back to this uh right away now . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , you have to go back . yeah uh uh . user interface : this marketing : is n't it better to have the sound and the general buttons horizontal ? user interface : i do n't know . marketing : with the minus and the plus . user interface : i think it 's marketing : i think it 's easier than user interface : i do n't know . i i thought it was uh easier to handle this way , marketing : yeah . user interface : but i do n't know what they think . industrial designer : sorry ? marketing : user interface : would you like the the buttons horizontal or v vertical ? marketing : for sound and channel . industrial designer : depends on the screen . if you make the screen vertical it does n't matter . if you make it uh in a rectangle user interface : right well if we make it like this , i think if you marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i so it 's it 's it 's it 's user interface : put it like this industrial designer : square . marketing : i think it 's it 's easier to have it something like oh a button uh minus here , plus over here . a minus here , plus over here . industrial designer : oh , okay . marketing : and on here . user interface : yeah . marketing : the other buttons and on here the top . user interface : yeah . marketing : the options and then you have something like uh the p_ over here , user interface : but i think i wou marketing : and the sound . user interface : i think that 's a matter of what you 're used to . marketing : something uh user interface : i think i would put a plus and a min uh here . and then the p_ in the mid in the middle and the sound uh in the middle . industrial designer : uh . marketing : something like user interface : marketing : sh project manager : industrial designer : take your time . user interface : marketing : plus minus plus uh user interface : almost . marketing : minus . user interface : but i think when you are holding it , you could press the minus and the plus and with the other finger the minus and the plus . marketing : yeah i think you 're going to s you 're going to use it with one thumb . user interface : yeah but i think yeah i do n't know . perhaps i have some examples . i do n't know industrial designer : we 'll leave that to the usability engineering then . marketing : who 's the usability engineering ? user interface : that 's me . marketing : she is . user interface : but i 'm going to look if i 've got some examples industrial designer : user interface : 'cause perhaps you should choose what 's most often used . marketing : oh . user interface : the 'cause they can use that better . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um industrial designer : consistency . user interface : yeah . marketing : oh i have that those s numbers . user interface : i here is our here are uh marketing : or a good watch . user interface : i do n't really know . project manager : everybody 's searching in his data . user interface : yeah . marketing : channel selection . per hour one hundred and sixty eight . volume selection four times an hour user interface : yeah but but i mean if it 's usually plus or min above each other or next to each other on a normal remote . industrial designer : yeah . so not how much n not how often it 's used , but marketing : uh user interface : w what 's what 's usual or normal . marketing : yeah , that depends on on on the remote . user interface : yes i 'm looking here . but here 's it 's below , here also , and now here 's here 's next to each other . i think it 's it 's a marketing : i think because i have two televisions at home . one is horizontal , one is vertical , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah it does it does n't really matter , marketing : so it depends . industrial designer : but marketing : yeah . depends . user interface : i think the the the volume was usually uh above each other , because you go higher and down . marketing : yeah , lower . user interface : and the the pay the the the program is next to each other , because you would go further and back . that 's how it 's is usually when i look here marketing : true . user interface : that 's what i see . industrial designer : okay , um . let 's cut to the chase . user interface : marketing : it 's got to change . project manager : yeah well i think we have we do n't have to decide about that now how where we will put the buttons user interface : i do n't know . project manager : just the marketing : yeah is it is user interface . project manager : concepts . user interface : yeah . marketing : component . user interface : this concept is in the actual design , but you should know where you would place a industrial designer : okay , well le yeah . interface , yeah . user interface : and the speech uh shall we implement that ? or uh project manager : yeah well we just heard about the new uh technology , huh ? industrial designer : technologies , uh . marketing : yeah i think it 's it 's easy for that , where are you , but then it says i 'm here . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . but then you should also find a place industrial designer : makes it possible to marketing : yeah . user interface : you could if you do it like this you could put it in a corner or something . you can talk into the corner . marketing : yeah , a microphone , yeah . industrial designer : not even necessary , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : because a lotta you can make a very sensitive microphone , so it makes it possible to uh just put it arou uh underneath it or on the on the bottom of the uh remote . project manager : yeah maybe at the bottom where you can can hel hold it with you hand that there 's also a microphone uh user interface : yeah . but yeah , that 's also . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : over there . industrial designer : right . user interface : so , in the middle or something . industrial designer : but that 's not import i think that 's not im very important project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : because yeah , it does n't matter where the microphone is . user interface : but you should uh decide where you want to put it . industrial designer : ah okay , sure , okay , user interface : right ? industrial designer : well tha marketing : um i think where it is n't seen industrial designer : underneath ? indeed . it should n't be uh very uh visible . marketing : the most . user interface : you could p you could put it in a logo of the company . marketing : inside . project manager : yeah . well industrial designer : yeah sure , why no marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe just in the the spot you just pointed out marketing : i i between the round of the r_ . user interface : yeah . project manager : because i think it should be in a in an important position where people can see it , marketing : yeah . project manager : because it is the the unique uh idea of our remote , huh , the the speech control . user interface : yeah . so where do you want to put it ? marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : well maybe where the one hand industrial designer : yeah but it does n't makes it uh any more fancy because you get to see uh user interface : yeah actually it does because it you can you can find it better if you use it . marketing : yeah . yeah user interface : it 's a way for you to uh marketing : bu but user interface : so it makes more sense just 'cause other remotes do n't have that . industrial designer : yeah , okay . project manager : but are we talking about the button , or about the microphone ? user interface : about a microphone , project manager : yeah because a microphone is very small thing , user interface : there is no button . project manager : but you can make it look like it 's big so as its its really an important function of the remote . user interface : yeah . marketing : i think the left s under corner should be the best . where is n't i it is n't most in sight . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . well put it there . i do n't mind . marketing : i think . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : that does n't does n't really matter . marketing : no . actually does n't . industrial designer : okay . so ? user interface : alright . any more uh project manager : so well uh industrial designer : interface type . project manager : type , supplements , anything . yeah , well we already s discussed that , huh , the the lcd industrial designer : the lcd yeah , project manager : and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh supplements well the supplement is to marketing : i think i thought the , like you said , like scroll next to the remote is n't that handy . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i think it 's better to just up what you 'd like to do on the screen . if you want to go back you have to back button go back , user interface : yeah . marketing : if you want to choose audio settings you press audio settings and it goes to that s sub-menu . user interface : um yeah . yeah industrial designer : . user interface : the the young people do like uh scroll uh industrial designer : use the scroll . yeah i think so too . marketing : yeah ? you do like it ? industrial designer : so why not , on on side . user interface : or at least yeah i do n't know if it 's really the scroll , but the menu they like most , and i think you can never get through a menu great with a scroll uh industrial designer : fast , yeah . so if you 've got a settings , if you marketing : yeah i think it is is faster . becau i think the scroll 's easier if you have a lot of options , industrial designer : yes . marketing : but if you do n't have a lot of option then user interface : but you have it 's f uh industrial designer : you have a lot of options , user interface : we have five or four or something . industrial designer : because when you use yeah you get w when you use uh the settings menu for example to look up some uh uh some channels on your uh on your television , you should scroll scroll down uh on a menu which probably does not fit on your screen . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh-huh . yeah , okay , true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so then it 's uh very handy to to scroll down , marketing : okay . industrial designer : you make just a rubber just like uh on your mouse or . just put it on the side and it 's very easy to use . marketing : okay , no problem . project manager : and i think i would it would make even more fancy because you have another interesting thing on the side industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : which you can touch user interface : yeah . project manager : and user interface : it 's also different . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . well there 's our five minutes uh warning . um any more uh questions about about the design or the user interface or different components , everyone ? marketing : um . no , colours are clear , project manager : everybody think they can can marketing : shape is clear , material is clear . industrial designer : okay , what 's the standard colour ? project manager : work for that ? marketing : and a standard , project manager : is there a standard colour ? marketing : yeah we do n't no we have different colour . industrial designer : you got you got different colours , marketing : how many colours are we going to user interface : you should you should have a black one industrial designer : but you should have a standard colour . user interface : because uh i think black is standard . marketing : black . yeah , black i think is is the standard . industrial designer : black ? with the with the yellow uh user interface : but if you want to be different , then uh marketing : dark grey , something like this this colour or something . industrial designer : just a regular uh remote colour . marketing : yeah like like yeah . industrial designer : and then have uh different covers uh to use . marketing : or or silver . i think it 's better to have silver nowadays . user interface : silver . industrial designer : silver , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : i think you see more silver than black . industrial designer : you see a lot of t uh silver televisions . project manager : but still silver and black are well user interface : silver rubber . marketing : yeah the the silver black are our main colours . yeah . project manager : silver is new but also traditional , so uh marketing : i think we have silver , black and between those is like i dunno s five colours between them or something . project manager : yeah w what about a yellow thing , i mean it industrial designer : yeah y i think it 's better to marketing : yeah yeah yeah it 'll be a banana yellow , we have . project manager : could be ugly , but it 's definitely fancy . user interface : but marketing : r red . industrial designer : yeah th yeah . that 's right . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but if you use uh silver , uh rubber s silver rubber is n't fancy . marketing : green , wood , brown . yeah . true . industrial designer : when you use titanium , silver is fancy , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but when you use silver rubber , it is n't fancy . silver has to shine , and rubber does n't shine . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : especially when it 's made of soft rubber like this . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you understand ? marketing : yeah , i understand . project manager : yeah i would think about colours like uh red , yellow , green , blue , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah o of course . project manager : just marketing : the fruity colours and the autumn colours , like red and brown , dark red and brown . project manager : yeah . user interface : just all kind of colour . industrial designer : fruity . fruity loops . project manager : mm-hmm . maroon . yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay , so user interface : and and do we have to have a normal black one , or uh project manager : who 's pinging ? user interface : is it project manager : you are pingin marketing : no . project manager : okay . i thought we user interface : industrial designer : you ping . project manager : okay , so uh that wraps it up ? everybody knows uh what to do ? user interface : yeah . project manager : well i wrote it down here . i wrote it down here what to do um . user interface : well i do n't know what to do , industrial designer : well not what to do . not what to do . user interface : but . project manager : the next meeting is once again in thirty minutes . um here are the individual actions , industrial designer : okay . project manager : and especially notice that uh the industrial designer and the user interface designer are going to work together on a prototype drawing on a smart board , user interface : ooh . right . project manager : and of course to all four of us uh specific instructions will be emailed by our personal coach . user interface : yeah . marketing : tough . we 'll be available . user interface : but do we have to we 'll work together , but do we have to stay here , or do we project manager : well i i 'd say just wait uh for email and uh find out . user interface : right . project manager : i do n't know . user interface : yes . okay . industrial designer : thin i think we should work . project manager : okay well that was what i had to say , uh , user interface : yeah i think . project manager : final thoughts from anyone , or ? we 're finished . okay , well thank you very much . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : thank you very much . marketing : finished . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the remote control concept ? </s> industrial designer : components design , um uh first of all uh i would like to uh uh accommodate some of those uh things i uh uh elaborate some of the things i did . i i elaborated on the concept . what should be um uh said about uh the components , uh its properties and what kind of materials should we use to uh to make uh one of those r remote controls . uh well first of all i 've uh d subtracted some of the components that is that are used uh are w w um you know from what uh the remote control 's formed . uh first of all , the case , the case , the surrounding of the of the the remote control . i would like to uh give you an idea of uh how i thought about . marketing : do n't destroy my giraffe . industrial designer : giraffe 's gone now . marketing : user interface : industrial designer : okay um the case was is made from rubber , i suppose . there 's one of the because when you use a remote control a lot of people uh will uh will uh drop their remote control marketing : drop it . industrial designer : and they break uh becau the uh titanium was also an option . but uh it 's a very expensive material . uh rubber is , i think , uh the best suitable uh material uh to use uh for our uh for our remote control . um it 's poss it 's also possible to uh create fancy colours with rubber . uh rubber l makes it easy to uh to to it lets lets itself colour . uh titanium uh you have to paint it and with that uh it 's possible to scratch it or uh yeah make it ugly . uh rubber uh the total uh piece of rubber that 's sor uh that 's that 's used uh to make the case is uh the same colour , so if you scratch it it 's still the same colour , perhaps uh it 's a little bit damaged . but it 's a very strong material . um i h i had an idea single covered uh curved , sorry , single curved . user interface : industrial designer : uh so it 's t two dimensional . i think it 's uh it 's best to draw oh user interface : it 's a colour . industrial designer : green . marketing : bright colour . fancy colour . forward . industrial designer : uh new . blank . okay . marketing : you have to go t industrial designer : let 's make it uh black . okay . i thought of an idea like this . oh that . um delete . blank . okay . so it also looks nice when it 's on your table . so you get uh it does n't lay flat down on the table , but it 's c it 's stands . marketing : oh it 's a side view . industrial designer : side view yes it 's side view so uh i i 'm not technically good at th three d_ modelling , user interface : marketing : industrial designer : um uh it 's just an idea i had so it 's uh it 's very uh so its also looks nice when it 's on the table . um the graphical user interface and the buttons , uh we also thought about that already . uh i thought about uh the lcd touch screen , which is uh is easy to clean too . one of the great uh advantages of the lcd screen you just use some or uh another uh cleaning uh uh cl some cleaning stuff . user interface : industrial designer : and um it should be made of strong plastic and it should be bright . well i already uh s uh explained some properties of that material and i think uh well we also we almost concluded about that uh this should uh be uh our uh button component . marketing : true . industrial designer : so uh uh that 's all about uh the buttons . uh the batteries , uh we also thought about that already , uh will be chargeable with uh uh an option for a mount station so you can uh put the uh the remote control in a mount station so its charges itself up instead of uh plugging it in or something like that . questions , ? user interface : no . marketing : no no no no no . just looking . industrial designer : and they should be long lasting , not uh not be empty uh in about uh two minutes or uh thirty minutes or forty minutes of use . and next step is the chip uh th the component that 's uh makes or transmits the signal to the television . uh there was an option to use s a rather simple chip but i think uh because uh of our uh highly uh requiring uh requirements , there should be an advanced chip in it user interface : industrial designer : with uh also the ability to uh facilitate speaker speech recognition uh which unfortunately is still in a test phase , so uh there should be some more uh investigation on that side . uh my personal preferences uh i also overheard in the last meeting that there shou we should use uh our own business colours . that was correct , was n't it ? project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . i think they are rather boring for um for use with rubber . user interface : project manager : well , business colours i thought it was the the slogan and uh the corporate image , so yeah , it needs colour , industrial designer : okay they should be m sh they should be in mind , project manager : but i do n't think you have to make the entire thing in the corporate colour . industrial designer : was n't it ? okay so it d it does n't says uh to uh have the slogan ? project manager : it must be recognisable . industrial designer : okay okay . well that 's possible of course . user interface : you can put the r_ and r_ . industrial designer : we could make a little r_ and r_ on the top of the machine . uh so they are pretty boring , i suggest , because just the availability with rubber to make fantastic colours uh and also in a lot of possible colours , so it 's possible to make very uh fancy uh remote controls which peopl uh who people in which people will find they 're uh interesting . and uh will buy uh them faster when they look at the same old grey or black uh colours . uh s as i said uh before rubber is uh is impossible to damage severely imp instead of uh of course you can break it when you you when you break it in s for example with a pair of scissors or something like that , but i if you drop it it 's not uh broken uh right away s instead of using uh plastic , hard plastic or uh titanium . and i personally liked uh the single curved uh remote control , because it yeah it makes sense . user interface : industrial designer : okay . well that 's all about my uh my findings . user interface : alright . project manager : okay , thank you . user interface : i will go next . marketing : mm mm mm . next . user interface : alright so industrial designer : user interface : i thought a little bit about the interface . uh how it should look . and uh uh we uh determined that will not be no buttons , but only an lcd screen , so i had to uh look on that . and the design is therefore based on what we just uh uh thought of . uh first there are some new findings and new technology for speech recognition . and this is that uh um uh uh you you ask you give a question through through the device and it answers you . and they already uh put this in an in a coffee maker . and so that it you say uh good morning , uh coffee maker , and it says t says to you back good morning joe or what 's your name . this uh and there 's an easy way to uh program that uh you say record into the device into the speaker and then you say the question and three seconds later you say the answer and then when you say the question it gives you the answer . um perhaps it 's useful , perhaps for because people um lose the remote , they can yell uh remote where are you and calls or something . industrial designer : marketing : it 's true . user interface : and perhaps we could uh implement that . industrial designer : user interface : and then i have to go out of the presentation because i tried to make some kind of a a idea of how it should look like industrial designer : oh my god . user interface : but i ca n't draw , so uh do n't make too much of it . i tried to uh the lcd screen i tried to sort of to draw . i thought uh at least uh the icon for the volume . i do n't know if there is an icon for the program , but industrial designer : not just a p_ . user interface : yeah . marketing : p_ yeah , just a p_ . industrial designer : .. . user interface : and then the buttons above and uh below marketing : user interface : the and the and the mute button also recognisable as an icon . um . marketing : where 's where 's the button for two ? user interface : i forgot that one . i thought i forgot something , marketing : okay . user interface : but uh . industrial designer : user interface : and uh and uh the numbers , that should be a bit larger i think it 's not really on scale and and so forth . marketing : does n't matter . user interface : um an options button . and i thought the the button for teletext apar uh apart because it 's not really options , i think . it 's uh options is the settings of the remote and of the tv and that kind of uh thing . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so could call it settings or something . but this is a bit uh how i thought it . and uh the lcd uh somewhere on the remote . perhaps we could be more curvy the remote perhaps should , so that it 's better in your hand or something uh . industrial designer : oh okay , user interface : but uh and and uh a microph microphone for the speech uh recognition if we want to implement that . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh and then uh if you press the op options button , now we have an example of and then you should get the other options with what what you could do and that you could do with something like this this . industrial designer : oh yeah , . user interface : and uh it 's also uh i thought think we discussed uh earlier that uh older people do n't really want to use uh these extra settings . and older people a also do n't really want to use this uh th this kind of option menus . so they want to u use one button and then something happens , and not choose with uh this kind of uh and you could put in a an a really s little scrolling device on the side of your uh remote , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you could scroll scroll uh across these uh things . industrial designer : mm . okay . user interface : that 's an option . and that was my uh finding dinge . project manager : thanks . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : now our third industrial designer : go danny , go danny . project manager : team member with his presentation . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay , i 'm going to tell you something about a trend watching . the trends from the past years , what the people like , what the youngsters like , what the elderly people liked about shapes , colours , material and stuff . 'kay . the method i used was like i told i watched the trends from the past years about colours , shapes , material they wanted uh from elderly and young people . so we can keep that in mind for designing f uh the device itself . findings i made . the most important thing people liked last year was that the remote control should be look look fancy . the second important thing that w should be if inv in innov innovative , okay , like the lcd screen that 's quite innovative so that should be great meeting for this . and the third thing is it should be easy to use . i think with only one menu , four button , channel , volume , it should also be enough for easy to use . the personal preferences for the young people , they liked fruity colours like uh banana yellow , uh strawberry red and stuff . industrial designer : fruity ? user interface : grass green . industrial designer : fruity . marketing : yeah . like that . the round shapes , and soft material m materials like the rubber . industrial designer : mm . okay . marketing : it should be soft uh i it should feeling spongy or s sponge bob like things . user interface : let 's build it into a sponge . industrial designer : marketing : th elderly people like au colours which y are being seen in autumn like um woods um dark brown , red , deep reds and stuff . they liked square shapes with round edges . and hard materials like wood , um titanium . they those kind of materials they liked . this is a bit like the young peoples like the fruity colours , innovative , all the colours you see , the blue , the red , the white , the yellow , that stuff . and then i th i i personally thought the front side of the shape should be something for the youngsters like like project manager : oh y marketing : this or something . it 's it 's a bit like a banana . and the colour should be yellow , or something . and for the elderly people just plain old . because we decided to have two kind of remotes , two designs , or was it two colours ? user interface : it was one remote , i think , marketing : different colours , yeah . user interface : different colours . marketing : we should decide whether it 's going to be with round shapes . i think like my colleague , you said , is that 's e better , or for the elderly people something like like the ipod or something , with round squares . simple but easy to use . so that 's it . project manager : so for the older people , a more traditional uh form . industrial designer : okay . marketing : that is my yeah , like the older o older colours i can maybe user interface : you could you could uh change the colours , that was also the idea . i do n't know which shape you should should take , marketing : yeah . colours th the elderly people project manager : yeah , i guess changing colours will be easier than changing uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : changing just the shape of the uh remote control ? project manager : the shape of it . user interface : perhaps you could find something in the middle . round but square . industrial designer : yeah , s round corners , but s but square , yeah . project manager : but maybe then both groups wo n't buy it . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : user interface : uh i i if you do it uh uh square , with round corners but a little uh in the middle of it uh i do you know what i mean ? industrial designer : yeah i know what you mean , kind of like a . user interface : wait , like like this uh a bit . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so it 's a bit square , but it 's also a bit uh round . industrial designer : kinda like a beer glass . yeah . user interface : so but then industrial designer : i know what you mean . user interface : same sides . but that 's uh industrial designer : it 's also easy to to have to to put in your hand . user interface : yeah but that 's also how other remotes are shaped , so that 's uh but perhaps that 's a good thing , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so that 's easy to use . people know the industrial designer : will recognise that 's as a remote control . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh look something like that . autumn colours like red , brown . industrial designer : uh when i saw your d oh . marketing : they liked the wood a lot . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : so maybe we could give it like wooden loo look look or something in that colour . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , kinda like old cars , uh marketing : and a bit bit old school style renaissance , medieval kind of things . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : swords . industrial designer : let 's put it all together . marketing : those kind of yeah , those kind of things . so you see the big difference between the young people ? fresh , exciting . user interface : yeah . marketing : and the old people , old and boring . user interface : but that 's easily to do with the colour , i think . project manager : marketing : so sorry ? user interface : that 's easy to do with the colours , i think . marketing : yeah i think it 's it 's easier to do in colour than in shape . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah we think so too . marketing : because otherwise we have to get different shapes , and colour way easier than yeah the shapes . in material yeah rubber , rubber is , like i said , young people like more soft materials and spongy ones industrial designer : marketing : and the old people like plain wood . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we have to decide if we 're going to use real hard rubber , or soft rubber . or something something between that . user interface : yeah think uh also in between . industrial designer : soft rubber . marketing : yeah soft rubber which you can you can feel in it . industrial designer : yeah i know what you um . user interface : i do n't think you should be able to mould it , marketing : or user interface : but industrial designer : it should should n't be . marketing : no . or or wh what 's something harder . no no no but but you have to like like like a a eraser or something . that 's the bit you can press it in , user interface : yeah . marketing : or something harder . user interface : bit like this kind of rubber . this uh marketing : yeah , something like this , yeah . user interface : but it 's quite hard , this . marketing : yeah it 's quite hard but you can press it in . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's feels kind s spongy . user interface : industrial designer : spongy . marketing : something . user interface : i do n't think it 's rubber . marketing : no . n n n project manager : so we need a spongy feeling . user interface : uh did you have something about uh marketing : are you going to invite sponge bob , maybe he can industrial designer : yeah . project manager : user interface : so we should first decide about shape , i think . industrial designer : ding ding . user interface : which uh marketing : yeah i think that 's the better thing to do . user interface : then you can fit the lcd screen in it , and can decide uh . industrial designer : um i also s uh ca n't help but notice that you uh used an you had a remote control user interface : industrial designer : and the lcd screen was uh rather small . um . marketing : w i think that lcd screen should be like user interface : it it 's supposed to be bit s bit s bit industrial designer : .. . this was your size , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but i think it should be larger . marketing : yeah three quarter of the of the industrial designer : yeah , three quarters . so uh so you do n't have to put your oh . marketing : yeah the buttons wo n't get that small when the lcd screen is industrial designer : uh new , blank . so uh when you get this uh user interface : ooh industrial designer : uh kinda like this . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : or should it be larger ? marketing : larger i think . industrial designer : larger ? because you want to put your hands user interface : but if you pu now you can put your hand there and then you wo n't touch the screen . industrial designer : you want marketing : becau because you have user interface : perhaps that 's best . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah okay , true , true , true true . industrial designer : your thumb here . user interface : but not on the screen because yeah industrial designer : yeah . user interface : that 's uh that 's an idea . marketing : yeah . user interface : looks a bit like a game boy now . industrial designer : because when you put your f yeah but if yo if you make the the lcd screen as large as the remote control itself , uh you 'll you 'll always get some user interface : you always touch it , industrial designer : you user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah yeah yeah yeah . industrial designer : going to be very greasy and stuff . marketing : but it wo n't get that small because you have how much ? nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen buttons on the screen . user interface : yeah . marketing : one to zero , the two digit , industrial designer : yeah you do n't want it too small . how yeah how large marketing : you have to you have to because some fat people with d thick fingers will press three buttons at same time . industrial designer : yeah they have thick fingers . but if you wan na make it in international , japanese uh people got uh rather small hands marketing : yeah true , industrial designer : and we got these large marketing : but yeah , we have we have the zoom option , right ? industrial designer : zoom opt ah yeah of course , yeah . you can make it larger to to uh to uh with accompanying uh greater fields to push the button . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize user interface 's opinion about remote control design ? </s> user interface : i thought a little bit about the interface . uh how it should look . and uh uh we uh determined that will not be no buttons , but only an lcd screen , so i had to uh look on that . and the design is therefore based on what we just uh uh thought of . uh first there are some new findings and new technology for speech recognition . and this is that uh um uh uh you you ask you give a question through through the device and it answers you . and they already uh put this in an in a coffee maker . and so that it you say uh good morning , uh coffee maker , and it says t says to you back good morning joe or what 's your name . this uh and there 's an easy way to uh program that uh you say record into the device into the speaker and then you say the question and three seconds later you say the answer and then when you say the question it gives you the answer . um perhaps it 's useful , perhaps for because people um lose the remote , they can yell uh remote where are you and calls or something . industrial designer : marketing : it 's true . user interface : and perhaps we could uh implement that . industrial designer : user interface : and then i have to go out of the presentation because i tried to make some kind of a a idea of how it should look like industrial designer : oh my god . user interface : but i ca n't draw , so uh do n't make too much of it . i tried to uh the lcd screen i tried to sort of to draw . i thought uh at least uh the icon for the volume . i do n't know if there is an icon for the program , but industrial designer : not just a p_ . user interface : yeah . marketing : p_ yeah , just a p_ . industrial designer : .. . user interface : and then the buttons above and uh below marketing : user interface : the and the and the mute button also recognisable as an icon . um . marketing : where 's where 's the button for two ? user interface : i forgot that one . i thought i forgot something , marketing : okay . user interface : but uh . industrial designer : user interface : and uh and uh the numbers , that should be a bit larger i think it 's not really on scale and and so forth . marketing : does n't matter . user interface : um an options button . and i thought the the button for teletext apar uh apart because it 's not really options , i think . it 's uh options is the settings of the remote and of the tv and that kind of uh thing . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so could call it settings or something . but this is a bit uh how i thought it . and uh the lcd uh somewhere on the remote . perhaps we could be more curvy the remote perhaps should , so that it 's better in your hand or something uh . industrial designer : oh okay , user interface : but uh and and uh a microph microphone for the speech uh recognition if we want to implement that . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh and then uh if you press the op options button , now we have an example of and then you should get the other options with what what you could do and that you could do with something like this this . industrial designer : oh yeah , . user interface : and uh it 's also uh i thought think we discussed uh earlier that uh older people do n't really want to use uh these extra settings . and older people a also do n't really want to use this uh th this kind of option menus . so they want to u use one button and then something happens , and not choose with uh this kind of uh and you could put in a an a really s little scrolling device on the side of your uh remote , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you could scroll scroll uh across these uh things . industrial designer : mm . okay . </s>
<s> what was marketing 's conclusion about the remote control watch trend ? </s> marketing : okay , i 'm going to tell you something about a trend watching . the trends from the past years , what the people like , what the youngsters like , what the elderly people liked about shapes , colours , material and stuff . 'kay . the method i used was like i told i watched the trends from the past years about colours , shapes , material they wanted uh from elderly and young people . so we can keep that in mind for designing f uh the device itself . findings i made . the most important thing people liked last year was that the remote control should be look look fancy . the second important thing that w should be if inv in innov innovative , okay , like the lcd screen that 's quite innovative so that should be great meeting for this . and the third thing is it should be easy to use . i think with only one menu , four button , channel , volume , it should also be enough for easy to use . the personal preferences for the young people , they liked fruity colours like uh banana yellow , uh strawberry red and stuff . industrial designer : fruity ? user interface : grass green . industrial designer : fruity . marketing : yeah . like that . the round shapes , and soft material m materials like the rubber . industrial designer : mm . okay . marketing : it should be soft uh i it should feeling spongy or s sponge bob like things . user interface : let 's build it into a sponge . industrial designer : marketing : th elderly people like au colours which y are being seen in autumn like um woods um dark brown , red , deep reds and stuff . they liked square shapes with round edges . and hard materials like wood , um titanium . they those kind of materials they liked . this is a bit like the young peoples like the fruity colours , innovative , all the colours you see , the blue , the red , the white , the yellow , that stuff . and then i th i i personally thought the front side of the shape should be something for the youngsters like like project manager : oh y marketing : this or something . it 's it 's a bit like a banana . and the colour should be yellow , or something . and for the elderly people just plain old . because we decided to have two kind of remotes , two designs , or was it two colours ? user interface : it was one remote , i think , marketing : different colours , yeah . user interface : different colours . marketing : we should decide whether it 's going to be with round shapes . i think like my colleague , you said , is that 's e better , or for the elderly people something like like the ipod or something , with round squares . simple but easy to use . so that 's it . project manager : so for the older people , a more traditional uh form . industrial designer : okay . marketing : that is my yeah , like the older o older colours i can maybe user interface : you could you could uh change the colours , that was also the idea . i do n't know which shape you should should take , marketing : yeah . colours th the elderly people </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about user interface design about remote control . </s> user interface : i had what i just uh i should again . i miss a few buttons , but . well . at least uh what we should also have on , i just remembered , um a menu to go back through the first uh if if you touch options , you ca n't go back to this uh right away now . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , you have to go back . yeah uh uh . user interface : this marketing : is n't it better to have the sound and the general buttons horizontal ? user interface : i do n't know . marketing : with the minus and the plus . user interface : i think it 's marketing : i think it 's easier than user interface : i do n't know . i i thought it was uh easier to handle this way , marketing : yeah . user interface : but i do n't know what they think . industrial designer : sorry ? marketing : user interface : would you like the the buttons horizontal or v vertical ? marketing : for sound and channel . industrial designer : depends on the screen . if you make the screen vertical it does n't matter . if you make it uh in a rectangle user interface : right well if we make it like this , i think if you marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i so it 's it 's it 's it 's user interface : put it like this industrial designer : square . marketing : i think it 's it 's easier to have it something like oh a button uh minus here , plus over here . a minus here , plus over here . industrial designer : oh , okay . marketing : and on here . user interface : yeah . marketing : the other buttons and on here the top . user interface : yeah . marketing : the options and then you have something like uh the p_ over here , user interface : but i think i wou marketing : and the sound . user interface : i think that 's a matter of what you 're used to . marketing : something uh user interface : i think i would put a plus and a min uh here . and then the p_ in the mid in the middle and the sound uh in the middle . industrial designer : uh . marketing : something like user interface : marketing : sh project manager : industrial designer : take your time . user interface : marketing : plus minus plus uh user interface : almost . marketing : minus . user interface : but i think when you are holding it , you could press the minus and the plus and with the other finger the minus and the plus . marketing : yeah i think you 're going to s you 're going to use it with one thumb . user interface : yeah but i think yeah i do n't know . perhaps i have some examples . i do n't know industrial designer : we 'll leave that to the usability engineering then . marketing : who 's the usability engineering ? user interface : that 's me . marketing : she is . user interface : but i 'm going to look if i 've got some examples industrial designer : user interface : 'cause perhaps you should choose what 's most often used . marketing : oh . user interface : the 'cause they can use that better . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um industrial designer : consistency . user interface : yeah . marketing : oh i have that those s numbers . user interface : i here is our here are uh marketing : or a good watch . user interface : i do n't really know . project manager : everybody 's searching in his data . user interface : yeah . marketing : channel selection . per hour one hundred and sixty eight . volume selection four times an hour user interface : yeah but but i mean if it 's usually plus or min above each other or next to each other on a normal remote . industrial designer : yeah . so not how much n not how often it 's used , but marketing : uh user interface : w what 's what 's usual or normal . marketing : yeah , that depends on on on the remote . user interface : yes i 'm looking here . but here 's it 's below , here also , and now here 's here 's next to each other . i think it 's it 's a marketing : i think because i have two televisions at home . one is horizontal , one is vertical , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah it does it does n't really matter , marketing : so it depends . industrial designer : but marketing : yeah . depends . user interface : i think the the the volume was usually uh above each other , because you go higher and down . marketing : yeah , lower . user interface : and the the pay the the the program is next to each other , because you would go further and back . that 's how it 's is usually when i look here marketing : true . user interface : that 's what i see . industrial designer : okay , um . let 's cut to the chase . user interface : marketing : it 's got to change . project manager : yeah well i think we have we do n't have to decide about that now how where we will put the buttons user interface : i do n't know . project manager : just the marketing : yeah is it is user interface . project manager : concepts . user interface : yeah . marketing : component . user interface : this concept is in the actual design , but you should know where you would place a industrial designer : okay , well le yeah . interface , yeah . user interface : and the speech uh shall we implement that ? or uh project manager : yeah well we just heard about the new uh technology , huh ? industrial designer : technologies , uh . marketing : yeah i think it 's it 's easy for that , where are you , but then it says i 'm here . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . but then you should also find a place industrial designer : makes it possible to marketing : yeah . user interface : you could if you do it like this you could put it in a corner or something . you can talk into the corner . marketing : yeah , a microphone , yeah . industrial designer : not even necessary , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : because a lotta you can make a very sensitive microphone , so it makes it possible to uh just put it arou uh underneath it or on the on the bottom of the uh remote . project manager : yeah maybe at the bottom where you can can hel hold it with you hand that there 's also a microphone uh user interface : yeah . but yeah , that 's also . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : over there . industrial designer : right . user interface : so , in the middle or something . industrial designer : but that 's not import i think that 's not im very important project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : because yeah , it does n't matter where the microphone is . user interface : but you should uh decide where you want to put it . industrial designer : ah okay , sure , okay , user interface : right ? industrial designer : well tha marketing : um i think where it is n't seen industrial designer : underneath ? indeed . it should n't be uh very uh visible . marketing : the most . user interface : you could p you could put it in a logo of the company . marketing : inside . project manager : yeah . well industrial designer : yeah sure , why no marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe just in the the spot you just pointed out marketing : i i between the round of the r_ . user interface : yeah . project manager : because i think it should be in a in an important position where people can see it , marketing : yeah . project manager : because it is the the unique uh idea of our remote , huh , the the speech control . user interface : yeah . so where do you want to put it ? marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : well maybe where the one hand industrial designer : yeah but it does n't makes it uh any more fancy because you get to see uh user interface : yeah actually it does because it you can you can find it better if you use it . marketing : yeah . yeah user interface : it 's a way for you to uh marketing : bu but user interface : so it makes more sense just 'cause other remotes do n't have that . industrial designer : yeah , okay . project manager : but are we talking about the button , or about the microphone ? user interface : about a microphone , project manager : yeah because a microphone is very small thing , user interface : there is no button . project manager : but you can make it look like it 's big so as its its really an important function of the remote . user interface : yeah . marketing : i think the left s under corner should be the best . where is n't i it is n't most in sight . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . well put it there . i do n't mind . marketing : i think . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : that does n't does n't really matter . marketing : no . actually does n't . industrial designer : okay . so ? user interface : alright . any more uh project manager : so well uh industrial designer : interface type . project manager : type , supplements , anything . yeah , well we already s discussed that , huh , the the lcd industrial designer : the lcd yeah , project manager : and user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh supplements well the supplement is to marketing : i think i thought the , like you said , like scroll next to the remote is n't that handy . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i think it 's better to just up what you 'd like to do on the screen . if you want to go back you have to back button go back , user interface : yeah . marketing : if you want to choose audio settings you press audio settings and it goes to that s sub-menu . user interface : um yeah . yeah industrial designer : . user interface : the the young people do like uh scroll uh industrial designer : use the scroll . yeah i think so too . marketing : yeah ? you do like it ? industrial designer : so why not , on on side . user interface : or at least yeah i do n't know if it 's really the scroll , but the menu they like most , and i think you can never get through a menu great with a scroll uh industrial designer : fast , yeah . so if you 've got a settings , if you marketing : yeah i think it is is faster . becau i think the scroll 's easier if you have a lot of options , industrial designer : yes . marketing : but if you do n't have a lot of option then user interface : but you have it 's f uh industrial designer : you have a lot of options , user interface : we have five or four or something . industrial designer : because when you use yeah you get w when you use uh the settings menu for example to look up some uh uh some channels on your uh on your television , you should scroll scroll down uh on a menu which probably does not fit on your screen . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh-huh . yeah , okay , true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so then it 's uh very handy to to scroll down , marketing : okay . industrial designer : you make just a rubber just like uh on your mouse or . just put it on the side and it 's very easy to use . marketing : okay , no problem . project manager : and i think i would it would make even more fancy because you have another interesting thing on the side </s>
<s> what did the group think about microphone position on the remote control ? </s> user interface : and the speech uh shall we implement that ? or uh project manager : yeah well we just heard about the new uh technology , huh ? industrial designer : technologies , uh . marketing : yeah i think it 's it 's easy for that , where are you , but then it says i 'm here . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . but then you should also find a place industrial designer : makes it possible to marketing : yeah . user interface : you could if you do it like this you could put it in a corner or something . you can talk into the corner . marketing : yeah , a microphone , yeah . industrial designer : not even necessary , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : because a lotta you can make a very sensitive microphone , so it makes it possible to uh just put it arou uh underneath it or on the on the bottom of the uh remote . project manager : yeah maybe at the bottom where you can can hel hold it with you hand that there 's also a microphone uh user interface : yeah . but yeah , that 's also . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : over there . industrial designer : right . user interface : so , in the middle or something . industrial designer : but that 's not import i think that 's not im very important project manager : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : because yeah , it does n't matter where the microphone is . user interface : but you should uh decide where you want to put it . industrial designer : ah okay , sure , okay , user interface : right ? industrial designer : well tha marketing : um i think where it is n't seen industrial designer : underneath ? indeed . it should n't be uh very uh visible . marketing : the most . user interface : you could p you could put it in a logo of the company . marketing : inside . project manager : yeah . well industrial designer : yeah sure , why no marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe just in the the spot you just pointed out marketing : i i between the round of the r_ . user interface : yeah . project manager : because i think it should be in a in an important position where people can see it , marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> what discussion did the group make about scroll on the remote control ? </s> marketing : i think i thought the , like you said , like scroll next to the remote is n't that handy . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i think it 's better to just up what you 'd like to do on the screen . if you want to go back you have to back button go back , user interface : yeah . marketing : if you want to choose audio settings you press audio settings and it goes to that s sub-menu . user interface : um yeah . yeah industrial designer : . user interface : the the young people do like uh scroll uh industrial designer : use the scroll . yeah i think so too . marketing : yeah ? you do like it ? industrial designer : so why not , on on side . user interface : or at least yeah i do n't know if it 's really the scroll , but the menu they like most , and i think you can never get through a menu great with a scroll uh industrial designer : fast , yeah . so if you 've got a settings , if you marketing : yeah i think it is is faster . becau i think the scroll 's easier if you have a lot of options , industrial designer : yes . marketing : but if you do n't have a lot of option then user interface : but you have it 's f uh industrial designer : you have a lot of options , user interface : we have five or four or something . industrial designer : because when you use yeah you get w when you use uh the settings menu for example to look up some uh uh some channels on your uh on your television , you should scroll scroll down uh on a menu which probably does not fit on your screen . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh-huh . yeah , okay , true . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so then it 's uh very handy to to scroll down , marketing : okay . industrial designer : you make just a rubber just like uh on your mouse or . just put it on the side and it 's very easy to use . marketing : okay , no problem . project manager : and i think i would it would make even more fancy because you have another interesting thing on the side industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : which you can touch user interface : yeah . project manager : and user interface : it 's also different . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : uh it fell off . one , two , three , four , yeah , we 're ready . okay . welcome to this second meeting . um it 's now quarter after twelve and we 're given forty minutes um for this meeting . this is a meeting on functional design . um and i wan na welcome you all and thank you all for doing some research in between . um i did took the minutes from the first meeting and i 'll show them to you in a moment . um i know each of you have a presentation and um in thinking about the forty minutes , i thought it would take only like three minutes for the previous minutes , um each of you having about seven minutes or maybe a little more , maybe a little less for your pre presentations and a little discussion , because there 's i happen to have been told there were some new project requirements and we have to make some uh decision on what functions it will have . okay ? is this ap everybody agree with this ? industrial designer : oops . project manager : okay . um and after the meeting there 'll be things to be done and as you can see it says we get to get lunch , um and then some more individual work and then putting minutes away and individual actions . um but uh now for the minutes of the first meeting . and go to that one . um as you can see it was this earlier today . um kate , steph , sarah and myself in our four capacities were present . i opened the meeting , the product was developed uh and reviewed , and we talked about the financial end of it . um and it had some implications , um the four million sales target and new ideas of not too many buttons , bright colours and some of the influence of the japanese . and we closed early so you could then proceed with your research and getting your reports together for tod this meeting anybody have any questions on those minutes ? are they complete , did they discuss everything that we covered last time ? 'kay . industrial designer : uh i think so , project manager : did i miss something ? industrial designer : we we we talked about the the individual roles that we each had as well . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . i 'm afraid i incorporated that when i said who was present , but yes , we did , industrial designer : okay . project manager : and we did a little bit of uh team building of uh of making the pictures , marketing : okay , i accept the minutes . project manager : but i did n't think those were appropriate to the minutes necessarily . so um as a group i think we 've are they 're accepting the minutes . and uh okay . marketing : is that what we 're supposed to say ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , i do . project manager : good . um , then we 'll move to the three presentations . okay ? marketing : okay . project manager : okay . mm we need to move this . who wants to go f first ? that 's as far as it goes . user interface : uh not really meant to touch those microphones . oh it does n't have any on , does it ? that 's fine . marketing : excellent , thank you . industrial designer : oy , big loop under the table . project manager : she said we did n't need to screw it in . marketing : okay . okay , that looks good . project manager : it 's doing its thing . there we are . marketing : alright . thank you very much . um . one of the the biggest issues i found about um from last meeting was the fact that we need to sell four million of these um remote controls and i think that this is an opportunity to really take real reaction in the direction of of similar of handheld tools that have been used and are used by many of us and to kind of bring the remote control into the si same realm as an accessible um useful electronic device , as opposed to something that is lost in the couch and what have you . so um my main goal here is to re-envision the remote control in in this context and to think about menu functionality and current technology and the fact that it could be interactive with other tools . um some of the research uh in the market has shown that people really are not happy with remote controls as they are now , and um that means we do need to make some decisions about what what keys or or buttons on the on the remote control to perhaps keep and and what ones to discard . and if we devote some energy into this , i think the um recent productions of real reaction , the i go everywhere power and the high definition d_v_d_ players although it makes immediate sense to have our remote control interact with these , i think we can also use this as a platform to make it interact with other tools . and um in fact i think the high definition d_v_d_ players and all of this will come along in the uh will only benefit from the positive feedback from our well designed tool . so again , most uh users really dislike the current look and feel of remote controls . um fifty percent i think of all these uh numbers the most important is fifty percent of user say they only use ten percent of the buttons . and eighty percent of users , and if we think about this there are a lot of uh television , d_v_d_ , stereo remote control users out there , eighty percent would spend more money on a remote control that looks fancy . industrial designer : could can i ask where these figures come from , is this market research we 've marketing : um it was market research and there were a hundred people in the room , so eighty out of a hundred said they would spend more money . project manager : now in between , as the project manager , they sent me an email from the powers that be industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um that teletext is outdated um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and the internet is coming in as important , but that they want this remote control to only be for tv um with incorporating the corporate image , colour and slogan . marketing : mm-hmm . well i think we can i i think we can really focus on this remote and and again bring the real reaction um brand in in and and get some positive marketing for our other tools , even if we directly do n't um advertise for the i go everywhere line . so an interesting um element was the would you pay more for speech recognition question . so these market research uh uh questionnaires looked into your your uh concern about technology industrial designer : marketing : and s specifically wanted to find out information about speech recognition . project manager : okay . marketing : now the early adopters , those of us who grew up with technology and uh luck lucky for us have the uh cash to to pay for it , the young age group without the mortgages and responsibilities , ninety one percent of them would pay more for speech recognition in a remote control . very interesting , i i leave this up to the group to decide if we wan na use this uh if and you know , the the designers , but ninety one percent , fifteen to twenty five project manager : is that a large enough target market to target it ? marketing : well , i i i think especially in terms of growth , i think this would be a very smart group to target . i mean s three quarters of the next age group , twenty five to thirty five are interested , and uh with the technologies improving , if we can get these uh project manager : in real numbers , does the ninety one percent and the seventy six percent translate to ex in excess of the four million ? marketing : yeah . to um yes . project manager : or eight million . marketing : yes . but would you pay more and does it work and is it approachable and and did i know that it was it was an that 's a that 's a very good question . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um marketing : i do n't know if speech recognition should be um should be included , but i think it 's an interesting i think that maybe shows more about uh being open to technology . user interface : uh it definitely needs uh a lot more research marketing : shall i go back ? user interface : on like how much more it would be and any , you know , existing examples , marketing : yeah , yeah . user interface : and what reactions to them have been , and that sort of thing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : how d i 'm wondering how how ou how our target price compares with the the typical price of these things . i expect an industrial designer should know that , but if we 're aiming to to build this thing for twelve euros fifty , um is that a lot or a little ? marketing : exactly . i mean i i i uh did not receive any information on that , but i think the competition , sussing out what other people are doing and what 's in the pipeline is very very important , because um there is a question about do you want an lcd screen and and that was n't responded to , but uh some of the larger remotes do have screens where you can navigate , you know , so it turns into something uh perhaps you all have seen uh the osbournes where ozzy osbourne is is attempting to manage his super entertainment system with something that looks like a uh a small tray . industrial designer : sh surely he 's in the wrong age group . marketing : you know , project manager : marketing : it 's i a and i think , you know industrial designer : he must be w one of a s small population . marketing : no , no , you kate , you 're exactly right there . but i think the key is to get the early adopters , people who are familiar with technology and and uh they 'll be project manager : but we 're not looking at whether they 're early adopters on that screen , marketing : uh , mm . project manager : that 's looking at age groups . marketing : exactly . i yes , and i 'm making and i 'm making the the uh uh leap that people who are familiar younger people are l are more familiar with technology than than older people . or comfortable , project manager : leap . hmm . mm . marketing : you know , um so project manager : okay , you had the other power channel . marketing : i think the most important thing is an attractive streamlined remote control and to be extraordinarily reductionist , power , channel , volume and everything else is is uh up to the designers . and this is this is also supported by the market research . project manager : okay . marketing : thank you . that 's my contribution . project manager : alright . and we 'll turn to the next presentation . i think she said we do n't need to screw it in , just stick it in . and then press , what ? f f_n_ and f_ eight . next to the control button on the bottom , and then f_ eight at the top . user interface : yeah , press them . project manager : and then w be patient . user interface : yeah , here we go . project manager : tada . industrial designer : and if you want it to go into slide show mode , it 's that little button there . user interface : can i not just uh do each one in order ? industrial designer : i you can if you like , it it that that just sets it up to do a p a p project manager : there we are . yay . user interface : that ? industrial designer : no that one , that one there . user interface : that ? industrial designer : left , left a bit , left a bit , that one , yep . user interface : that ? right , technical functions design . uh well i think first off , basically i do agree with what sarah has defined as as uh your personal preferences , yeah . i think we need uh a more streamlined volume with no extraneous functions . so my method was to look at the existing remotes and what functions they have . and what we all need to discuss is whether we want these functions uh pretty much the same as what existing remotes have . if we can build on this with the speech recognition , that 's not something i 'd thought about at all , but it 's also something we can discuss . project manager : okay . user interface : um and and i presume we can miss out the functions really to to a video or d_v_d_ remote control , if this is only gon na be a , you know , satellite , cable , tv remote control . project manager : tv only . user interface : so these are two models of existing remote controls . uh the one on the left seems to be a fairly uh standard universal remote control . project manager : ugh . user interface : it has fast-forward , stop , play , all relating to movies . it also has seems to have channel up and channel down , which is which is more what you 'd expect from a , you know , like a sky or cable remote control where you 've got hundreds of channels instead of a merely terrestrial one . uh but i think we should be looking more along the lines of the one on the right , which has it also has play , stop and pause and everything , i do n't think we need them at all . i think we just need channel selection , volume up , volume down and i think an an enter function where you can access it 's not like teletext , but along the same lines , access things on the screen . uh not related to the internet one that you mentioned , because that 'd be far outside our budget and what we want this to do . project manager : mm . and exceed the requirements they 're expecting of us . user interface : so it really exceed the requirements , 'cause the requirements really are just want to be able to change channels and functions , which is more a text on the screen thing than uh than actual buttons project manager : okay . user interface : o i was thinking something some smooth , sleek , little remote control with big user-friendly buttons and uh a menu that you can access . project manager : alright . user interface : uh but then i do think we need to discuss the speech um recognition possibility . project manager : okay . any uh thing else you wan na add ? okay . user interface : but we could go back to the pictures of the uh , what 're they called ? the pictures of the remote controls and possibly discuss what we think about them , marketing : or if user interface : but maybe should hear what kate has to say first . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . let 's hear what kate has to say . user interface : okay then . marketing : maybe afterwards we could do a uh whiteboard with that your the one on the right as a as a basis . whiteboard session . project manager : i think the white that one on the right is , as well as less cluttered , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : definitely less cluttered and i mean but still it 's project manager : it 's there but it 's user interface : i was just i 'll just uh resume something else i was gon na say . marketing : user interface : the the style of these is terrible . project manager : yeah . user interface : i i i really think we need to uh not only possibly even materials , like the type of plastic used , but everything including size and shape of buttons , positioning of buttons , the actual shape of the hand-held device , colours , just every e yeah , everything to do with this has to be revolutionised . marketing : the ergonomics , the way it fits in your yeah . user interface : but so that 's that for now . industrial designer : cheers . mm , i have n't actually got a display on my screen . project manager : okay . industrial designer : still , i 'll do without that . okay um , now i wan na bring us down to earth again i 'm afraid and talk about the actual practicalities of how the thing needs to work . um oh and this is the methodology i used in preparing for this meeting . um basically i 've been doing a little bit of web-based research , and if i had a design team , i would 've been discussing my ideas with 'em . but the the net result is that i 've come up with a first cut for the working design that i 'd like to discuss with you . so , let 's go back to what the basic function of a remote control is . it 's for sending a message , um typically um via infrared . and the the basic components we 've got to build in for our twelve euros fifty are um an energy source , the user interface and which will um in incorporate um an integrated circuit that actually composes the message um based on what the which buttons the user presses , we turn that into a message , um and then we need a sending mechanism to send it to the receiver . now i would have hoped i think that 's my only slide actually , yeah . i would have have hoped to um do you a pretty powerpoint slide of um my first cut design , but unfortunately the technology defeated me , so if you 'll bear with me i 'll do it on the whiteboard . so we want an energy source which is there . and we 've got to think about what that might be . project manager : hmm-mm . industrial designer : uh we obviously do n't want wires on this thing . uh typically it would be a battery , but i 'm open to suggestions . um and then we have the the user interface . oops . and the main components in there are the the th the chip that actually has the intelligence of the machine that translates button presses into a message , which it then transfers to some sending mechanism , which encodes it and sends the message to the receiver . so those are the basic things that we 've got to get in for our twelve euros fifty . thank you . project manager : hmm . okay . right . but those things as long as we can get those components , the block , that that rectangle for the user interface , is where the user comes in of what what does it look like ? what do the buttons look like ? uh what does it feel like ? that 's where the user interface is really coming into its own . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : the technical end is what 's actually gon na be in there , but also it has to be easy enough to change or repair if something goes wrong . for example the battery energy source or um what if the chip , for whatever reason , breaks down after a certain amount of time , do you just replace it ? um is there any um because it may be in the same area with several other user interfaces , like for d_v_d_s , movies , whatever . um does it have to have a a way of being segregated from the others , in a different frequency or something ? industrial designer : well i may be wrong here , but i 'd been thinking of this device as being a a cheap mass-produced device . we 're trying to sell four million of 'em , um that 's that 's , you know , that 's almost one in every tenth household or whatever it is . um and i had n't thought of it as being a reparable thing , project manager : okay . industrial designer : you just if it goes wrong you chuck it out , and that 's why i 'm a bit concerned . i like the idea of speech recognition , that 's a great idea , but i 'm not convinced we can put it into this box for the price that we need gon na need to hit . project manager : okay . user interface : whoop . marketing : do we have um ki some idea of how much it would cost to create a device that has these basic elements ? user interface : is n't that your job ? marketing : because then project manager : oh . industrial designer : user interface : oh right . marketing : the chip composer marketing . oh no , the chip composer sender . project manager : mm . what they cost . industrial designer : um , i 'm i 'm i 'm hoping that my personal coach is gon na give me some advice on that , if you 're asking me , marketing : i i do n't believe i know , um . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : but marketing : be because then we would ha ha figure out how much we had to play with in terms of user interface and this look and feel idea . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it does it does seem as if we 're just to do something really simple and mass-produced , the which is pretty much the same as these existing models , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : just maybe a little bit more inspired , marketing : inspired ? user interface : but basically just the same . although what what uh suddenly came into my head is , you know how they always take two a_a_ batteries which which is really not very efficient at all . could it be possible to have uh , you know , like a rechargeable internal battery , like , well , like an m_p_ three player does ? with that you could jus or a mobile phone or whatever . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : you could you know , you just plug into a power source for a couple of hours , and then it 's recharged for ages and ages and ages , and you do n't have to worry with replacing a_a_ batteries , which are marketing : that has another element , which is if every time you 're done using the remote you put it on a charger , then you then it has a place . user interface : you 'd never need uh batteries would y uh yeah . marketing : yeah , but it also has a place , user interface : and it 's not stuck down the back of the sofa . marketing : so exactly . user interface : but then again i d i do n't know if this is within our price range or not . marketing : that 's a really good idea . industrial designer : well i uh think that 's a very interesting idea , but um i 'm not a very good industrial designer and i do n't know much about what these things cost . i 'll do some research for the next meeting . project manager : okay . user interface : marketing : well it 's better than my idea about solar , probably . project manager : uh yeah . industrial designer : well solar may not be so good when you 're watching tv in the night , marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : but user interface : well it is just so annoying how project manager : it would have to sor store up the energy marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i guess . project manager : and then use it . solar can do that . industrial designer : we may be talking quite heavy then . project manager : m yeah , that would be too heavy marketing : yeah . project manager : and it 'd cost too much . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : no , but just a rechargeable internal battery would probably i mean it might cost more to at first to develop and to install , marketing : mm-hmm user interface : but for long-term use it 'll be so much more convenient and economic than fiddling around trying to replace chunky a_a_ batteries and not having any in your kitchen drawer marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so do you think we might make that a selling point if it was something that we found we could afford to develop ? user interface : you know f marketing : definitely , 'cause i 'm thinking in terms of um uh the loss and breakage of um remotes , how much of that is is to do with it not really having a uh a home , a um a nest , a place to live , user interface : sort of have its little dock that you could put it in . industrial designer : marketing : exactly . project manager : yeah . marketing : so if you can dock it , um you know , you could s argue that this is project manager : and the dock could look very fancy and that could be your inspiration of having it looking decent . marketing : exactly . user interface : still i do n't know if it 's quite within our price range . marketing : mm . 'cause you are talking about another component , like another piece of hardware . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . okay . are we agreed as to what our target group is though ? pretty much , so that we 'd be looking for the younger end . marketing : well i i brought up some exactly , but i think you raised some good questions about are there enough of these people out there , or are they making purchasing decisions ? industrial designer : yeah , marketing : you know , industrial designer : i was wondering that , marketing : these are the industrial designer : because i ag i agree that there there 're people with uh how can i put it , more money than sense and who are liable to buy something new , project manager : i i s usually put more money than brains . marketing : yeah , exactly . industrial designer : but bu but what i was gon na say was , although they they may be buying um , you know , personal music devices and all that , marketing : oh oh oh i 'll make a note of that , kate . good , good comment . industrial designer : are they necessarily buying tv remote controls ? because they probably live in a household that has a tv if they 're at the lower end of the age range , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i do n't know . user interface : yeah . marketing : it might be good to know um uh who , you know , who 's actually buying televisions and are we in a uh uh s region where people have more than one television in a home ? industrial designer : mm . i think we 've got a big hill to climb here , have n't we ? i mean we 've got ta persuade people who 've got a remote control 'cause it came with the telly that they should buy our product instead . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : or do we s make sure that it goes to the man through the manufacturer ? we sell to the manufacturer as the remote that goes with it . industrial designer : right , good point . yeah , yeah okay , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , good point . user interface : that 's probably more what it is . marketing : yeah . project manager : what would be a more efficient way of doing it ? marketing : yeah , and and some of our d_v_d_ players incidentally have them , because we have the relationship with our own department , but moreover we need to to go for the the manufacturers . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . right . user interface : we 're not gon na get any resolutions by the end of the day , project manager : probably not . user interface : are we ? project manager : um the other thing that we 're supposed to do is make decision on our functions . our functions , we 've so far decided , i think , that power , channel , volume make it attractive . um it has to have an enter key and of course the number keys . it has to have big user-friendly buttons and sh n definitely we wan na be inspired that the current styles are just plain awful . user interface : yeah . marketing : do we need um let me project manager : is that agreeable to everyone ? marketing : br actually , um industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : the enter key i have a chart here that i did n't include . um project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : do you want the gizmo ? marketing : yeah , which might project manager : throw some light on that . marketing : th yeah , th those are felt like had a lot of charts . project manager : um actually we 're , you know , we are almost a half hour out of the forty minutes , so we have to get close to finishing . marketing : okay , i i my only comment is i think maybe um we could somehow include an enter key in like a power key if power power was enter and pow that was my only just really in terms of streamlining . project manager : ah . mm-hmm . okay . enter , power as a s oh um a sum simultaneous key . marketing : um exactly . again , you know , project manager : is that okay with you ? marketing : thinking of menus or user interface : sorry , project manager : would that industrial designer : h how does that work ? user interface : i was miles away . industrial designer : how so so how does that work , user interface : i was re i was reading the chart to be honest . marketing : um well project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : how do you avoid switching the thing off when you actually wan na press enter ? marketing : if you 're pressing enter , the the thing would already be on , and so maybe um when you press power , initially it turns it on , press power again and use that as an enter um project manager : then you 'd have to have an off te off key . marketing : so you press power after you 've um well i was thinking maybe you to turn it off you 'd have to press power twice in succession , industrial designer : okay , yep , mm-hmm . marketing : and maybe power follows something like a channel up channel down power , and then that would make that choice . industrial designer : it 's not getting a bit complicated ? could granny do this , marketing : well industrial designer : or are we just not aiming at granny ? marketing : or y yeah . or something that has a a turning dial , where at the far end is on or off . user interface : who 's got an ipod then ? industrial designer : marketing : yeah , project manager : mm . okay . marketing : i do n't um i wish . anyway , uh that was the only comment about um some of the the decisions people have made , what 's most important . it 's definitely channel , volume , power . user interface : yeah , things like screen settings and audio settings , i would generally do them on the actual television itself , marketing : exactly . user interface : like here you have a you know , a little flap th with a little control panel on the actual box itself . marketing : exactly . user interface : i i would n't know how to do it using a remote control , marketing : yeah . user interface : so um i would say that they are definitely less relevant . project manager : okay . so marketing : okay , well . thanks for looking at that . project manager : i guess easy to use is the other thing that we want 'em to be able to do . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : as you said , you know , do n't make it too hard for the granny . marketing : we do n't wan na outsmart project manager : i just joined that set last week . um first grandchild arrived . marketing : congratulations . industrial designer : mm . user interface : project manager : um so are we agreed then of those things ? and let 's go back to agenda and hook me up . mm . this oughta be fun . it probably wo n't go the first time , it 'll probably be like a g mess . come on . uh it lost it off here . uh marketing : oh you 're fine . it 's fine . project manager : no , it was up there , but i could n't see it down here . mm . this time it should be both . there we go . industrial designer : how do you do that ? how do you make it do both ? project manager : um you have to keep doing the financi the the f_n_ and f_ eight to five minutes to finish , industrial designer : ah okay , it toggles through , project manager : thank you a lot for telling me . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um right , marketing : i think you have to cycle through . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we 're ready to close . um will be completed q questionnaire , um then we 'll have some time for individual work to continue our research um and i 'll put some minutes of this meeting together . um your individual assignments are for um kate to do the components , for you , steph , to do the user interface and for you the trend-watching . um and each of us will get help from our coach . are we agreed to get ourselves together and then have lunch ? okay . industrial designer : sounds good . project manager : then that 's the end of this meeting . and i hope that 's good enough for her to tell her that 's the end . okay ? industrial designer : okay . user interface : we did n't come to any sort of decision on the functions though . project manager : well i think i went over the functions and wrote them down and marked them . user interface : alright , well that 's fine then . project manager : um that 's what i went over and nobody was objecting to them . marketing : okay . um and you 'd mentioned i i was just gon na say , could you reiterate the new project requirements , project manager : okay . marketing : because it they were it has to be for a tv , just to keep myself project manager : um the teletext is outdated , industrial designer : so we 're still in meeting , are n't we ? project manager : the internet is important , marketing : yeah , i think i 've project manager : it 's only to be for a tv and it must include the corporate image , colour and slogan um marketing : okay . project manager : which i think is more in the user uh range , with steph . user interface : mm . sorry , what what actually are these is that the yellow and black ? project manager : it does n't tell me . user interface : from their i 'll just use it from their website . project manager : mm-hmm . okay ? user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the menu function and interaction with other tools of the remote control . </s> project manager : good . um , then we 'll move to the three presentations . okay ? marketing : okay . project manager : okay . mm we need to move this . who wants to go f first ? that 's as far as it goes . user interface : uh not really meant to touch those microphones . oh it does n't have any on , does it ? that 's fine . marketing : excellent , thank you . industrial designer : oy , big loop under the table . project manager : she said we did n't need to screw it in . marketing : okay . okay , that looks good . project manager : it 's doing its thing . there we are . marketing : alright . thank you very much . um . one of the the biggest issues i found about um from last meeting was the fact that we need to sell four million of these um remote controls and i think that this is an opportunity to really take real reaction in the direction of of similar of handheld tools that have been used and are used by many of us and to kind of bring the remote control into the si same realm as an accessible um useful electronic device , as opposed to something that is lost in the couch and what have you . so um my main goal here is to re-envision the remote control in in this context and to think about menu functionality and current technology and the fact that it could be interactive with other tools . um some of the research uh in the market has shown that people really are not happy with remote controls as they are now , and um that means we do need to make some decisions about what what keys or or buttons on the on the remote control to perhaps keep and and what ones to discard . and if we devote some energy into this , i think the um recent productions of real reaction , the i go everywhere power and the high definition d_v_d_ players although it makes immediate sense to have our remote control interact with these , i think we can also use this as a platform to make it interact with other tools . and um in fact i think the high definition d_v_d_ players and all of this will come along in the uh will only benefit from the positive feedback from our well designed tool . so again , most uh users really dislike the current look and feel of remote controls . um fifty percent i think of all these uh numbers the most important is fifty percent of user say they only use ten percent of the buttons . and eighty percent of users , and if we think about this there are a lot of uh television , d_v_d_ , stereo remote control users out there , eighty percent would spend more money on a remote control that looks fancy . industrial designer : could can i ask where these figures come from , is this market research we 've marketing : um it was market research and there were a hundred people in the room , so eighty out of a hundred said they would spend more money . project manager : now in between , as the project manager , they sent me an email from the powers that be industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um that teletext is outdated um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and the internet is coming in as important , but that they want this remote control to only be for tv um with incorporating the corporate image , colour and slogan . marketing : mm-hmm . well i think we can i i think we can really focus on this remote and and again bring the real reaction um brand in in and and get some positive marketing for our other tools , even if we directly do n't um advertise for the i go everywhere line . so an interesting um element was the would you pay more for speech recognition question . so these market research uh uh questionnaires looked into your your uh concern about technology industrial designer : marketing : and s specifically wanted to find out information about speech recognition . project manager : okay . marketing : now the early adopters , those of us who grew up with technology and uh luck lucky for us have the uh cash to to pay for it , the young age group without the mortgages and responsibilities , ninety one percent of them would pay more for speech recognition in a remote control . very interesting , i i leave this up to the group to decide if we wan na use this uh if and you know , the the designers , but ninety one percent , fifteen to twenty five project manager : is that a large enough target market to target it ? marketing : well , i i i think especially in terms of growth , i think this would be a very smart group to target . i mean s three quarters of the next age group , twenty five to thirty five are interested , and uh with the technologies improving , if we can get these uh project manager : in real numbers , does the ninety one percent and the seventy six percent translate to ex in excess of the four million ? marketing : yeah . to um yes . project manager : or eight million . marketing : yes . but would you pay more and does it work and is it approachable and and did i know that it was it was an that 's a that 's a very good question . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um marketing : i do n't know if speech recognition should be um should be included , but i think it 's an interesting i think that maybe shows more about uh being open to technology . user interface : uh it definitely needs uh a lot more research marketing : shall i go back ? user interface : on like how much more it would be and any , you know , existing examples , marketing : yeah , yeah . user interface : and what reactions to them have been , and that sort of thing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : how d i 'm wondering how how ou how our target price compares with the the typical price of these things . i expect an industrial designer should know that , but if we 're aiming to to build this thing for twelve euros fifty , um is that a lot or a little ? marketing : exactly . i mean i i i uh did not receive any information on that , but i think the competition , sussing out what other people are doing and what 's in the pipeline is very very important , because um there is a question about do you want an lcd screen and and that was n't responded to , but uh some of the larger remotes do have screens where you can navigate , you know , so it turns into something uh perhaps you all have seen uh the osbournes where ozzy osbourne is is attempting to manage his super entertainment system with something that looks like a uh a small tray . industrial designer : sh surely he 's in the wrong age group . marketing : you know , project manager : marketing : it 's i a and i think , you know industrial designer : he must be w one of a s small population . marketing : no , no , you kate , you 're exactly right there . but i think the key is to get the early adopters , people who are familiar with technology and and uh they 'll be project manager : but we 're not looking at whether they 're early adopters on that screen , marketing : uh , mm . project manager : that 's looking at age groups . marketing : exactly . i yes , and i 'm making and i 'm making the the uh uh leap that people who are familiar younger people are l are more familiar with technology than than older people . or comfortable , project manager : leap . hmm . mm . marketing : you know , um so project manager : okay , you had the other power channel . marketing : i think the most important thing is an attractive streamlined remote control and to be extraordinarily reductionist , power , channel , volume and everything else is is uh up to the designers . and this is this is also supported by the market research . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> what did marketing think about the menu functionality when discussing the menu function and interaction with other tools of the remote control ? </s> project manager : it 's doing its thing . there we are . </s>
<s> according to marketing , why was the revolution of interaction necessary ? </s> marketing : alright . thank you very much . um . one of the the biggest issues i found about um from last meeting was the fact that we need to sell four million of these um remote controls and i think that this is an opportunity to really take real reaction in the direction of of similar of handheld tools that have been used and are used by many of us and to kind of bring the remote control into the si same realm as an accessible um useful electronic device , as opposed to something that is lost in the couch and what have you . so um my main goal here is to re-envision the remote control in in this context and to think about menu functionality and current technology and the fact that it could be interactive with other tools . um some of the research uh in the market has shown that people really are not happy with remote controls as they are now , and um that means we do need to make some decisions about what what keys or or buttons on the on the remote control to perhaps keep and and what ones to discard . and if we devote some energy into this , i think the um recent productions of real reaction , the i go everywhere power and the high definition d_v_d_ players although it makes immediate sense to have our remote control interact with these , i think we can also use this as a platform to make it interact with other tools . and um in fact i think the high definition d_v_d_ players and all of this will come along in the uh will only benefit from the positive feedback from our well designed tool . so again , most uh users really dislike the current look and feel of remote controls . um fifty percent i think of all these uh numbers the most important is fifty percent of user say they only use ten percent of the buttons . and eighty percent of users , and if we think about this there are a lot of uh television , d_v_d_ , stereo remote control users out there , eighty percent would spend more money on a remote control that looks fancy . industrial designer : could can i ask where these figures come from , is this market research we 've marketing : um it was market research and there were a hundred people in the room , so eighty out of a hundred said they would spend more money . project manager : now in between , as the project manager , they sent me an email from the powers that be industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um that teletext is outdated um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and the internet is coming in as important , but that they want this remote control to only be for tv um with incorporating the corporate image , colour and slogan . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the functions and source of the power of the remote control . </s> project manager : alright . and we 'll turn to the next presentation . i think she said we do n't need to screw it in , just stick it in . and then press , what ? f f_n_ and f_ eight . next to the control button on the bottom , and then f_ eight at the top . user interface : yeah , press them . project manager : and then w be patient . user interface : yeah , here we go . project manager : tada . industrial designer : and if you want it to go into slide show mode , it 's that little button there . user interface : can i not just uh do each one in order ? industrial designer : i you can if you like , it it that that just sets it up to do a p a p project manager : there we are . yay . user interface : that ? industrial designer : no that one , that one there . user interface : that ? industrial designer : left , left a bit , left a bit , that one , yep . user interface : that ? right , technical functions design . uh well i think first off , basically i do agree with what sarah has defined as as uh your personal preferences , yeah . i think we need uh a more streamlined volume with no extraneous functions . so my method was to look at the existing remotes and what functions they have . and what we all need to discuss is whether we want these functions uh pretty much the same as what existing remotes have . if we can build on this with the speech recognition , that 's not something i 'd thought about at all , but it 's also something we can discuss . project manager : okay . user interface : um and and i presume we can miss out the functions really to to a video or d_v_d_ remote control , if this is only gon na be a , you know , satellite , cable , tv remote control . project manager : tv only . user interface : so these are two models of existing remote controls . uh the one on the left seems to be a fairly uh standard universal remote control . project manager : ugh . user interface : it has fast-forward , stop , play , all relating to movies . it also has seems to have channel up and channel down , which is which is more what you 'd expect from a , you know , like a sky or cable remote control where you 've got hundreds of channels instead of a merely terrestrial one . uh but i think we should be looking more along the lines of the one on the right , which has it also has play , stop and pause and everything , i do n't think we need them at all . i think we just need channel selection , volume up , volume down and i think an an enter function where you can access it 's not like teletext , but along the same lines , access things on the screen . uh not related to the internet one that you mentioned , because that 'd be far outside our budget and what we want this to do . project manager : mm . and exceed the requirements they 're expecting of us . user interface : so it really exceed the requirements , 'cause the requirements really are just want to be able to change channels and functions , which is more a text on the screen thing than uh than actual buttons project manager : okay . user interface : o i was thinking something some smooth , sleek , little remote control with big user-friendly buttons and uh a menu that you can access . project manager : alright . user interface : uh but then i do think we need to discuss the speech um recognition possibility . project manager : okay . any uh thing else you wan na add ? okay . user interface : but we could go back to the pictures of the uh , what 're they called ? the pictures of the remote controls and possibly discuss what we think about them , marketing : or if user interface : but maybe should hear what kate has to say first . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . let 's hear what kate has to say . user interface : okay then . marketing : maybe afterwards we could do a uh whiteboard with that your the one on the right as a as a basis . whiteboard session . project manager : i think the white that one on the right is , as well as less cluttered , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : definitely less cluttered and i mean but still it 's project manager : it 's there but it 's user interface : i was just i 'll just uh resume something else i was gon na say . marketing : user interface : the the style of these is terrible . project manager : yeah . user interface : i i i really think we need to uh not only possibly even materials , like the type of plastic used , but everything including size and shape of buttons , positioning of buttons , the actual shape of the hand-held device , colours , just every e yeah , everything to do with this has to be revolutionised . marketing : the ergonomics , the way it fits in your yeah . user interface : but so that 's that for now . industrial designer : cheers . mm , i have n't actually got a display on my screen . project manager : okay . industrial designer : still , i 'll do without that . okay um , now i wan na bring us down to earth again i 'm afraid and talk about the actual practicalities of how the thing needs to work . um oh and this is the methodology i used in preparing for this meeting . um basically i 've been doing a little bit of web-based research , and if i had a design team , i would 've been discussing my ideas with 'em . but the the net result is that i 've come up with a first cut for the working design that i 'd like to discuss with you . so , let 's go back to what the basic function of a remote control is . it 's for sending a message , um typically um via infrared . and the the basic components we 've got to build in for our twelve euros fifty are um an energy source , the user interface and which will um in incorporate um an integrated circuit that actually composes the message um based on what the which buttons the user presses , we turn that into a message , um and then we need a sending mechanism to send it to the receiver . now i would have hoped i think that 's my only slide actually , yeah . i would have have hoped to um do you a pretty powerpoint slide of um my first cut design , but unfortunately the technology defeated me , so if you 'll bear with me i 'll do it on the whiteboard . so we want an energy source which is there . and we 've got to think about what that might be . project manager : hmm-mm . industrial designer : uh we obviously do n't want wires on this thing . uh typically it would be a battery , but i 'm open to suggestions . um and then we have the the user interface . oops . and the main components in there are the the th the chip that actually has the intelligence of the machine that translates button presses into a message , which it then transfers to some sending mechanism , which encodes it and sends the message to the receiver . so those are the basic things that we 've got to get in for our twelve euros fifty . thank you . project manager : hmm . okay . right . but those things as long as we can get those components , the block , that that rectangle for the user interface , is where the user comes in of what what does it look like ? what do the buttons look like ? uh what does it feel like ? that 's where the user interface is really coming into its own . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : the technical end is what 's actually gon na be in there , but also it has to be easy enough to change or repair if something goes wrong . for example the battery energy source or um what if the chip , for whatever reason , breaks down after a certain amount of time , do you just replace it ? um is there any um because it may be in the same area with several other user interfaces , like for d_v_d_s , movies , whatever . um does it have to have a a way of being segregated from the others , in a different frequency or something ? industrial designer : well i may be wrong here , but i 'd been thinking of this device as being a a cheap mass-produced device . we 're trying to sell four million of 'em , um that 's that 's , you know , that 's almost one in every tenth household or whatever it is . um and i had n't thought of it as being a reparable thing , project manager : okay . industrial designer : you just if it goes wrong you chuck it out , and that 's why i 'm a bit concerned . i like the idea of speech recognition , that 's a great idea , but i 'm not convinced we can put it into this box for the price that we need gon na need to hit . project manager : okay . user interface : whoop . marketing : do we have um ki some idea of how much it would cost to create a device that has these basic elements ? user interface : is n't that your job ? marketing : because then project manager : oh . industrial designer : user interface : oh right . marketing : the chip composer marketing . oh no , the chip composer sender . project manager : mm . what they cost . industrial designer : um , i 'm i 'm i 'm hoping that my personal coach is gon na give me some advice on that , if you 're asking me , marketing : i i do n't believe i know , um . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : but marketing : be because then we would ha ha figure out how much we had to play with in terms of user interface and this look and feel idea . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it does it does seem as if we 're just to do something really simple and mass-produced , the which is pretty much the same as these existing models , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : just maybe a little bit more inspired , marketing : inspired ? user interface : but basically just the same . although what what uh suddenly came into my head is , you know how they always take two a_a_ batteries which which is really not very efficient at all . could it be possible to have uh , you know , like a rechargeable internal battery , like , well , like an m_p_ three player does ? with that you could jus or a mobile phone or whatever . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : you could you know , you just plug into a power source for a couple of hours , and then it 's recharged for ages and ages and ages , and you do n't have to worry with replacing a_a_ batteries , which are marketing : that has another element , which is if every time you 're done using the remote you put it on a charger , then you then it has a place . user interface : you 'd never need uh batteries would y uh yeah . marketing : yeah , but it also has a place , user interface : and it 's not stuck down the back of the sofa . marketing : so exactly . user interface : but then again i d i do n't know if this is within our price range or not . marketing : that 's a really good idea . industrial designer : well i uh think that 's a very interesting idea , but um i 'm not a very good industrial designer and i do n't know much about what these things cost . i 'll do some research for the next meeting . project manager : okay . user interface : marketing : well it 's better than my idea about solar , probably . project manager : uh yeah . industrial designer : well solar may not be so good when you 're watching tv in the night , marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : but user interface : well it is just so annoying how project manager : it would have to sor store up the energy marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i guess . project manager : and then use it . solar can do that . industrial designer : we may be talking quite heavy then . project manager : m yeah , that would be too heavy marketing : yeah . project manager : and it 'd cost too much . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : no , but just a rechargeable internal battery would probably i mean it might cost more to at first to develop and to install , marketing : mm-hmm user interface : but for long-term use it 'll be so much more convenient and economic than fiddling around trying to replace chunky a_a_ batteries and not having any in your kitchen drawer marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so do you think we might make that a selling point if it was something that we found we could afford to develop ? user interface : you know f marketing : definitely , 'cause i 'm thinking in terms of um uh the loss and breakage of um remotes , how much of that is is to do with it not really having a uh a home , a um a nest , a place to live , user interface : sort of have its little dock that you could put it in . industrial designer : marketing : exactly . project manager : yeah . marketing : so if you can dock it , um you know , you could s argue that this is project manager : and the dock could look very fancy and that could be your inspiration of having it looking decent . marketing : exactly . user interface : still i do n't know if it 's quite within our price range . marketing : mm . 'cause you are talking about another component , like another piece of hardware . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> why did industrial designer reject the idea of using solar energy as the source of power ? </s> marketing : well it 's better than my idea about solar , probably . project manager : uh yeah . industrial designer : well solar may not be so good when you 're watching tv in the night , marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : but user interface : well it is just so annoying how project manager : it would have to sor store up the energy marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i guess . project manager : and then use it . solar can do that . industrial designer : we may be talking quite heavy then . project manager : m yeah , that would be too heavy marketing : yeah . project manager : and it 'd cost too much . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think about the technology of speech recognition when discussing the functions and source of the power of the remote control ? </s> industrial designer : uh we obviously do n't want wires on this thing . uh typically it would be a battery , but i 'm open to suggestions . um and then we have the the user interface . oops . and the main components in there are the the th the chip that actually has the intelligence of the machine that translates button presses into a message , which it then transfers to some sending mechanism , which encodes it and sends the message to the receiver . so those are the basic things that we 've got to get in for our twelve euros fifty . thank you . project manager : hmm . okay . right . but those things as long as we can get those components , the block , that that rectangle for the user interface , is where the user comes in of what what does it look like ? what do the buttons look like ? uh what does it feel like ? that 's where the user interface is really coming into its own . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : the technical end is what 's actually gon na be in there , but also it has to be easy enough to change or repair if something goes wrong . for example the battery energy source or um what if the chip , for whatever reason , breaks down after a certain amount of time , do you just replace it ? um is there any um because it may be in the same area with several other user interfaces , like for d_v_d_s , movies , whatever . um does it have to have a a way of being segregated from the others , in a different frequency or something ? industrial designer : well i may be wrong here , but i 'd been thinking of this device as being a a cheap mass-produced device . we 're trying to sell four million of 'em , um that 's that 's , you know , that 's almost one in every tenth household or whatever it is . um and i had n't thought of it as being a reparable thing , project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor b : ok , so we we had a meeting with , uh with hynek , um , in in which , uh , uh , sunil and stephane , uh summarized where they were and and , uh , talked about where we were gon na go . so that that happened sort of mid - week . uh . phd e : d did did you guys get your code pushed together ? phd d : oh , yeah . yeah . it 's it 's it 's it was updated yesterday , phd e : cool . phd d : right ? phd a : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd a : you probably received the mail . phd e : oh , right , i saw i saw the note . phd a : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : what was the update ? phd a : what was the update ? so there is th then the all the new features that go in . professor b : yeah . phd a : the , um , noise suppression , the re - synthesis of speech after suppression . these are the phd e : is the , um the cvs mechanism working well ? phd a : yeah . phd e : are are people , uh , up at ogi grabbing code uh , via that ? phd d : uh , i do n't think i do n't think phd e : or ? phd a : i do n't know if they use it , but . phd d : yeah , i i do n't think anybody up there is like working on it right now . phd e : uh - huh . mmm . professor b : i think it more likely that what it means is that when sunil is up there he will grab it . phd d : yeah . yeah . so right now nobody 's working on aurora there . phd e : yeah . professor b : they 're yeah . they 're working on a different task . phd e : i see . i see . phd d : yeah . professor b : but what 'll happen is is he 'll go back up there and , uh , pratibha will come back from from , uh , the east coast . uh . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh and and i guess actually , uh , after eurospeech for a little bit , uh , he 'll go up there too . so , actually everybody who 's working on it { comment } will be up there for at least a little while . so they 'll remotely access it from there . phd e : so has has anybody tried remotely accessing the cvs using , uh , uh , ssh ? professor b : yeah . phd a : um , i do n't know if hari did that or you d phd d : i { comment } can actually do it today . i mean , i can just log into phd e : have you tried it yet ? phd d : no , i did n't . so i i 'll try it today . professor b : good idea . phd a : actually i i tried wh while when i installed the repository , i tried from belgium . professor b : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd a : i logged in there and i tried to import phd e : yeah ? it worked good ? phd a : yeah , it works . phd e : oh , good ! phd a : but it 's so , right now it 's the mechanism with ssh . phd e : great ! phd a : i do n't s i did n't set up you can also set up a cvs server on a new port . it 's like well uh , a main server , or d you can do a cvs server . phd e : yeah . right . then that 's using the cvs password mechanism and all that , phd a : but . yeah , right . phd e : right ? phd a : but i did n't do that because i was not sure about security problems . i i would have to phd e : so w when you came in from belgian { comment } belgium , using ssh , uh , was it asking you for your own password into icsi ? so if yo you can only do that if you have an account at icsi ? phd a : right . yeah . yeah . phd e : cuz there is an a way to set up anonymous cvs right ? phd a : yeah , you ha in this way you ca you have to set up a cvs server but then , yeah , you can access it . phd e : so that oh , ok . phd a : you you can set up priorities . phd e : so the anonymous mechanism phd a : you can access them and mostly if you if y the set the server is set up like this . phd e : ok . because a lot of the open source stuff works with anonymous cvs and i 'm just wondering uh , i mean , for our transcripts we may want to do that . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . yeah , for this stuff i do n't think we 're quite up to that . i mean , we 're still so much in development . phd e : mm - hmm . yeah , professor b : we want to have just the insiders . phd e : yeah , yeah . oh , i was n't suggesting for this . i 'm thinking of the meeting recorder { comment } stuff professor b : yeah . phd e : but . yeah . ok . cool . professor b : yeah . so , uh phd e : what 's new ? professor b : well , i mean , i think maybe the thing to me might be i me i 'm sure you 've just been working on on , uh , details of that since the meeting , right ? and so phd a : mmm , since the meeting , well , i i 've been i 've been train training a new vad and a new feature net . professor b : that was that was tuesday . ok . phd a : so they should be ready . um . professor b : but i guess maybe the thing since you were n't yo you guys were n't at that that meeting , might be just just to , um , sort of recap , uh , the the conclusions of the meeting . phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : oh , great . you 're talking about the meeting with hynek ? professor b : yeah . cuz that was sort of , uh we we 'd sort of been working up to that , that that , uh , he would come here this week and and we would sort of phd e : uh - huh . professor b : since he 's going out of town like now , and i 'm going out town in a couple weeks , uh , and time is marching , sort of , given all the mu many wonderful things we could be working on , what what will we actually focus on ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh and what do we freeze ? and , you know , what do we ? so , um . i mean , this software that these guys created was certainly a a key part . so then there 's something central and there are n't at least a bunch of different versions going off in in ways that differ trivially . uh , um , and , um , phd e : yeah . that 's that 's nice . professor b : and then within that , i guess the idea was to freeze a certain set of options for now , to run it , uh , a particular way , and decide on what things are gon na be experimented with , as opposed to just experimenting with everything . so keep a certain set of things constant . so , um . uh , maybe describe roughly what what we are keeping constant for now , or ? phd a : yeah . well . so we 've been working like six weeks on on the noise compensation and we end up with something that seems reasonable . um . phd e : are you gon na use which of the two techniques ? phd a : so finally it 's it 's , um , wiener filtering on fft bins . and it uses , uh , two steps , smoothing of the transfer function , the first step , that 's along time , which use recursion . and after this step there is a further smoothing along frequency , which use a sliding window of twenty fft bins . mmm . and , uh phd e : so this is on the uh , before any mel scaling has been done ? phd a : yeah , yeah . phd e : this is phd a : it was professor b : this this smoothing is done on the estimate , um , of what you 're going to subtract ? or on the thing that has already had something subtracted ? phd a : yeah . uh , it 's on the transfer function . so professor b : oh , it 's on the transfer function for the wiener filter . phd a : yeah . professor b : yeah , ok . phd a : yeah , so basically we tried different configuration within this idea . we tried u u applying this on mel bands , having spectral subtraction instead of wiener filtering . um . well , finally we end up with this configuration that works , uh , quite well . so we are going to fix this for the moment and work on the other aspects of the whole system . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : so professor b : actually , let me int eh , dave is n't here to talk about it , but let me just interject . this module , in principle , i i mean , you would know whether it 's true in fact , is somewhat independent from the rest of it . i mean , because you you re - synthesize speech , right ? phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : so , um . uh , well you do n't i guess you do n't re - synthesize speech , but you could phd a : we we do not fo professor b : uh , but you could . phd a : well well , we do , but we do n't do n't re - synthesize . in in the program we do n't re - synthesize and then re - analyze once again . we just use the clean fft bins . professor b : but you have a re - synthesized thing that you that 's an an option here . phd a : this is an option that then you can yeah . professor b : yeah , i gu i guess my point is that , um , i in some of the work he 's doing in reverberation , one of the things that we 're finding is that , uh , it 's it 's for the for an artificial situation , we can just deal with the reverberation and his techniques work really well . but for the real situation uh , problem is , is that you do n't just have reverberation , you have reverberation in noise . and if you do n't include that in the model , it does n't work very well . so in fact it might be a very nice thing to do , to just take the noise removal part of it and put that in front of what he 's looking at . and , uh , generate new files or whatever , and and , uh , uh and then do the reverberation part . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : so it 's anyway . phd e : so dave has n't tried that yet ? professor b : no , no . he 's i mean , e phd e : i guess he 's busy with professor b : yeah , prelims , right . grad c : pre - prelim hell . professor b : yeah . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor b : uh , but but , you know , that 'll uh , it 's clear that we , uh we are not with the real case that we 're looking at , we ca n't just look at reverberation in isolation because the interaction between that and noise is is considerable . and that 's i mean , in the past we 've looked at , uh , and this is hard enough , the interaction between channel effects and and , uh and additive noise , uh , so convolutional effects and and additive effects . and that 's hard enough . i mean , i do n't think we really i mean , we 're trying to deal with that . in a sense that 's what we 're trying to deal with in this aurora task . and we have , uh , the , uh , uh , lda stuff that in principle is doing something about convolutional effects . and we have the noise suppression that 's doing something about noise . uh , even that 's hard enough . and and the on - line normalization as well , in that s category . i i there 's all these interactions between these two and that 's part of why these guys had to work so hard on on juggling everything around . but now when you throw in the reverberation , it 's even worse , because not only do you have these effects , but you also have some long time effects . and , um , so dave has something which , uh , is doing some nice things under some conditions with with long time effects but when it 's when there 's noise there too , it 's it 's it 's pretty hard . so we have to start since any almost any real situation is gon na have uh , where you have the microphone distant , is going to have both things , we we actually have to think about both at the same time . so , um so there 's this noise suppression thing , which is sort of worked out and then , uh , maybe you should just continue telling what what else is in the the form we have . phd a : yeah , well , the , um , the other parts of the system are the the blocks that were already present before and that we did not modify a lot . professor b : so that 's again , that that 's the wiener filtering , followed by , uh uh , that 's done at the fft level . then phd a : yeah , th then the mel filter bank , professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : then the log operation , professor b : mm - hmm . the the the filtering is done in the frequency domain ? phd a : yeah . professor b : yeah , ok . and then the mel and then the log , and then the phd a : then the lda filter , professor b : lda filter . phd a : mmm , then the downsampling , professor b : and then uh downsample , phd a : then , um , on - line normalization , professor b : on - line norm , phd a : followed by upsampling . then finally , we compute delta and we put the neural network also . professor b : right , and then in parallel with an a neural net . and then following neural net , some probably some orthogonalization . phd a : yeah . professor b : uh um . phd a : and finally frame dropping , which um , would be a neural network also , used for estimated silence probabilities . and the input of this neural network would be somewhere between log mel bands or one of the earlier stages of the processing . professor b : mm - hmm . so that 's sort of most of this stuff is yeah , is operating parallel with this other stuff . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . so the things that we , um , uh , i guess we sort of uh , there 's there 's some , uh , neat ideas for v a so , i mean , in i think there 's sort of like there 's a bunch of tuning things to improve stuff . there 's questions about various places where there 's an exponent , if it 's the right exponent , or ways that we 're estimating noise , that we can improve estimating noise . and there 's gon na be a host of those . but structurally it seemed like the things the main things that that we brought up that , uh , are are gon na need to get worked on seriously are , uh , uh , a a significantly better vad , uh , putting the neural net on , um , which , you know , we have n't been doing anything with , the , uh , neural net at the end there , and , uh , the , uh , opening up the second front . uh . phd e : the other half of the channel ? professor b : yeah , yeah , i mean , cuz we we have we have , uh , uh , half the the , uh , data rate that they allow . phd e : that what you mean ? professor b : and , uh , so the initial thing which came from , uh , the meeting that we had down south was , uh , that , um , we 'll initially just put in a mel spectrum as the second one . it 's , you know , cheap , easy . uh . there 's a question about exactly how we do it . we probably will go to something better later , but the initial thing is that cepstra and spectra behave differently , phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so . um , { comment } i think tony robinson used to do i was saying this before . i think he used to do mel , uh , spectra and mel cepstra . he used them as alternate features . put them together . phd e : so if you took the system the way it is now , the way it 's fro you 're gon na freeze it , and it ran it on the last evaluation , where it would it be ? phd a : mm - hmm . it , uh , phd e : in terms of ranking ? phd a : ri - right now it 's second . phd d : second . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : although you you know , you have n't tested it actually on the german and danish , have you ? phd a : no , we did n't . no , um . professor b : yeah . phd e : so on the ones that you did test it on it would have been second ? professor b : yeah . would it i mean but when you 're saying second , you 're comparing to the numbers that the , uh that the best system before got on , uh also without german and danish ? phd a : yeah , yeah . professor b : yeah , ok . phd d : and th the ranking actually did n't change after the german and danish . so , yeah . professor b : well ranking did n't before , but i 'm just asking where this is to where theirs was without the german and danish , phd a : yeah . phd d : yeah . yeah . professor b : right ? phd d : yeah , yeah . phd e : where where where were we actually on the last test ? professor b : oh , we were also esp essentially second , although there were there were i mean , we had a couple systems and they had a couple systems . and so , i guess by that we were third , but i mean , there were two systems that were pretty close , that came from the same place . phd e : uh - huh . i see . ok . professor b : uh , so institutionally we were we were second , with , uh , the third third system . phd e : we 're so this second that you 're saying now is system - wide second ? professor b : see uh , no i think it 's also institutional , is n't it ? phd e : still institutionally second ? professor b : right ? i mean , i think both of their systems probably phd a : uh , we are between their two systems . so professor b : oh , are we ? phd a : i it is a triumph . phd d : yeah . professor b : is it ? phd d : their their first system is fifty - four point something . and , uh , we are fifty - three point something . phd a : but everything is within the range of one one percent . phd d : and their second system is also fifty - three point something . yeah , one percent . professor b : yeah , so so basically they 're all they 're all pretty close . phd e : oh , wow ! that 's very close . phd d : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor b : and and , um , you know , in some sense we 're all doing fairly similar things . uh , i mean , one could argue about the lda and so forth but i i think , you know , in a lot of ways we 're doing very similar things . but what what phd e : so how did they fill up this all these these bits ? i mean , if we 're u professor b : um , why are we using half ? well , so you could you c phd e : yeah . or how are they using more than half , i guess maybe is what i professor b : yeah , so i i think uh , you guys are closer to it than me , so correct me if i 'm wrong , but i i think that what 's going on is that in in both cases , some kind of normalization is done to deal with convola convolutional effects . uh , they have some cepstral modification , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : right ? in our case we have a couple things . we have the on - line normalization and then we have the lda rasta . and they seem to comple complement each other enough and be different enough that they both seem to help help us . but in any event , they 're both doing the same sort of thing . but there 's one difference . the lda rasta , uh , throws away high modulation frequencies . and they 're not doing that . phd e : so th so professor b : so that if you throw away high modulation frequencies , then you can downsample . grad c : get down . phd e : i see . i see . professor b : so phd e : so what if you did n't so do you explicitly downsample then ? do we explicitly downsample ? professor b : yeah . phd a : yeah . phd e : and what if we did n't do that ? would we get worse performance ? phd a : um yeah , not better , not worse . professor b : i think it does n't affect it , does it ? phd e : i see . ok . professor b : yeah . so i think the thing is , since we 're not evidently throwing away useful information , let 's try to put in some useful information . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor b : and , uh , so i you know , we we 've found in a lot of ways for quite a while that having a second stream uh , helps a lot . so that 's that 's put in , and you know , it may even end up with mel spectrum even though i 'm saying i think we could do much better , just because it 's simple . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : um . and you know , in the long run having something everybody will look at and say , `` oh , yeah , i understand `` , is is very helpful . phd e : so you would you 're you 're thinking to put the , uh , mel spectrum in before any of the noise removal stuff ? or after ? professor b : well , that 's a question . i mean , we were talking about that . it looks like it 'd be straightforward to to , uh , remove the noise , um , and , uh , phd e : cuz that happens before the mel conversion , right ? professor b : yeah . so , i mean , to do it after the mel conversion uh , after the noise removal , after the mel conversion . there 's even a question in my mind anyhow of whether th you should take the log or not . uh . i sort of think you should , but i do n't know . phd a : what about norm normalizing also ? professor b : right . uh . well , but normalizing spectra instead of cepstra ? phd a : yeah . professor b : yeah , probably . some kind would be good . you know ? i would think . phd d : well , it it it it so it actually makes it dependent on the overall energy of the uh , the frame . professor b : if you do or do n't normalize ? phd d : if yo if you do n't normalize and if if you do n't normalize . professor b : right . yes , so i mean , one would think that you would want to normalize . but i i w w my thought is , uh , particularly if you take the log , try it . and then if if normalization helps , then y you have something to compare against , and say , `` ok , this much effect `` i mean , you do n't want to change six things and then see what happens . you want to change them one at a time . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : so adding this other stream in , that 's simple in some way . and then saying , oh uh particularly because we 've found in the past there 's all these these these different results you get with slight modifications of how you do normalization . normalization 's a very tricky , sensitive thing and you learn a lot . so , i would think you would wan na have some baseline that says , `` ok , we do n't normalize , this is what we get `` , when we do this normalization , when we do that normalization . but but the other question is so i think ultimately we 'll wind up doing some normalization . i agree . phd e : so this second stream , will it add latency to the system professor b : no , it 's in parallel . phd e : or ? professor b : we 're not talking about computation time here . we 're ta i think we 're pretty far out . phd e : yeah . professor b : so it 's just in terms of what data it 's depending on . it 's depending on the same data as the other . phd e : same data . professor b : so it 's in parallel . uh - huh . grad c : so with this , uh , new stream would you train up a vad on both both features , somehow ? phd d : no , i guess the vad has its own set of features . grad c : ok . that 's phd d : i mean , which could be this one of these streams , or it can be something derived from these streams . professor b : yeah . phd a : and there is also the idea of using traps , maybe , for the vad , which , um phd d : yeah , that 's also phd a : well , pratibha apparently showed , when , she was at ibm , that it 's a good idea . so . grad c : would would that fit on the handset , or ? oh ! phd a : i have no idea . phd d : well , it has t i mean the th phd a : it would have to fit but yeah . phd d : yeah , if it has to fit the delays and all this stuff . professor b : well , there 's the delays and the storage , yeah . but i do n't think the storage is so big for that . grad c : right . phd d : yeah . professor b : i think th the biggest we 've run into for storage is the neural net . right ? phd d : yeah . professor b : yeah . um . and so i guess the issue there is , are we are we using neural - net - based traps , and and how big are they ? so that 'll that 'll be , you know , an issue . grad c : oh , right . professor b : maybe they can be little ones . grad c : yeah . cuz sh right . professor b : mini - traps . grad c : cuz she also does the , uh the correlation - based , uh , traps , with without the neural net , just looking at the correlation between professor b : right . and maybe for vad they would be ok . yeah . yeah . grad c : yeah . professor b : that 's true . phd d : yeah . professor b : or a simple neural net , right ? i mean , the thing is , if you 're doing correlation , you 're just doing a simple uh , uh uh , dot product , you know , with some weights which you happened to learn from this learn from the data . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : and so , uh , putting a nonlinearity on it is , you know , not that big a deal . it certainly does n't take much space . grad c : mm - hmm . right . professor b : so , uh , the question is , how complex a function do you need ? do you need to have an added layer or something ? in which case , uh , potentially , you know , it could be big . so . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : so , uh , uh so what 's next ? maybe s s remind us . phd e : so the meeting with hynek that you guys just had was to decide exactly what you were gon na freeze in this system ? is that ? or was there ? were you talking about what t new stuff , or ? professor b : what to freeze and then what to do after we froze . yeah . and like i was saying , i think the you know , the basic directions are , uh , uh i mean , there 's lots of little things , such as improve the noise estimator but the bigger things are adding on the neural net and , uh , the second stream . and then , uh , improving the vad . uh . so . phd d : so , i 'll , um i 'll actually after the meeting i 'll add the second stream to the vad and maybe i 'll start with the feature net in that case . it 's like , you 're looking at the vad , right ? phd a : uh , yeah . i i 've a new feature net ready also . phd d : i 'll for the vad ? phd a : no , uh . well p two network , one vad and one feature net . phd d : oh , you already have it ? phd a : mm - hmm . phd d : ok , so just figure how to take the features from the final phd a : yeah . um . but , yeah , i think there are plenty of issues to work on for the feature net @ @ . grad c : feature net . phd e : what about the , um uh , the new part of the evaluation , the , uh , wall street journal part ? professor b : right . right . um . have you ever ? very good question . have you ever worked with the mississippi state h uh , software ? phd a : sorry . phd e : no . not yet . professor b : oh . well you you may be called upon to help , uh , uh , on account of , uh , all the work in this stuff here has been , uh , with small vocabulary . phd e : ok . mm - hmm . so what how is the , uh , interaction supposed to happen ? uh , i remember the last time we talked about this , it was sort of up in the air whether they were going to be taking , uh , people 's features and then running them or they were gon na give the system out or phd d : yeah . yeah . phd e : oh , so they 're gon na just deliver a system basically . phd d : yeah , yeah . professor b : do we already have it ? phd d : yeah , th i i guess it 's almost ready . phd e : uh - huh . phd d : so that 's what so they have released their , uh , document , describing the system . professor b : maybe you could , uh , point it at chuck , phd e : i see . professor b : because , i mean phd d : sure . phd e : so we 'll have to grab this over cvs or something ? phd d : it - no , it 's just downloadable from their from their web site . phd e : is that how they do it ? ok . professor b : cuz one of the things that might be helpful , if you 've if you 've got time in all of this is , is if if these guys are really focusing on improving , uh , all the digit stuff , uh , maybe and you got the front - end from them , maybe you could do the runs for the phd e : ok . mm - hmm . professor b : and and , you know , iron out hassles that that you have to , uh , tweak joe about or whatever , phd e : sure . professor b : because you 're more experienced with running the large vocabulary stuff . phd d : so i 'll point you to the web site and the mails corresponding . so i phd e : and it but it 's not ready yet , the system ? phd d : uh , i i think they are still , uh , tuning something on that . so they 're like , d they 're varying different parameters like the insertion penalty and other stuff , and then seeing what 's the performance . phd e : are those going to be parameters that are frozen , nobody can change ? or ? phd d : uh , w i guess there is , uh , time during which people are gon na make suggestions . phd e : oh , but everybody 's gon na have to use the same values . phd d : after that . phd e : oh ! interesting . phd d : yeah , i guess . so these sugges these this , uh , period during which people are gon na make suggestions is to know whether it is actually biased towards any set of features or professor b : yeah , so i th th certainly the thing that i would want to know about is whether we get really hurt , uh , on in insertion penalty , language model , scaling , sorts of things . phd e : using our features . professor b : yeah , yeah . phd e : yeah . professor b : uh , in which case , um , h hari or hynek will need to , you know , push the case more about about this . phd e : mm - hmm . and we may be able to revisit this idea about , you know , somehow modifying our features to work with professor b : yes . in this case , that 's right . phd e : yeah . professor b : that 's right . um , some of that may be , uh , a last minute rush thing because if the if our features are changing uh . phd e : yeah . professor b : uh . but , um . yeah , the other thing is that even though it 's months away , uh , it 's starting to seem to me now like november fifteenth is right around the corner . and , um , if they have n't decided things like this , like what the parameters are gon na be for this , uh , when `` deciding `` is not just somebody deciding . i mean , in fact there should be some understanding behind the , uh , deciding , which means some experiments and and so forth . it it it seems pretty tight to me . phd e : so wha what 's the significance of november fifteenth ? professor b : that 's when the evaluation is . yeah . so , yeah , so after but , you know , they may even decide in the end to push it off . it would n't , you know , entirely surprise me . but , uh , due to other reasons , like some people are going away , i 'm i 'm hoping it 's not pushed off for a l a long while . that would be , uh put us in an awkward position . but anyway . great . yeah , i think that 'll be helpful . there 's there 's not anybody ogi currently who 's who 's , uh , working with this and and phd e : is is this part of the evaluation just a small part , or ho how important is this to the overall ? professor b : i i think it 's it 's , um it depends how badly you do . i mean , i think that it it is uh . phd e : this is one of those things that will be debated afterwards ? professor b : yeah . well , i mean , it 's it 's conceptually , it my impression , again , you guys correct me if i 'm wrong , but my impression is that , um , they want it as a double check . that you have n't come across you have n't invented features which are actually gon na do badly for a a significantly different task , particularly one with larger vocabulary . and , um , but it 's not the main emphasis . i mean , the truth is , most of the applications they 're looking at are pretty small vocabulary . so it 's it 's a double check . so they 'll probably assign it some sort of low weight . phd e : seems to me that if it 's a double check , they should give you a one or a zero . y you passed the threshold or you did n't pass the threshold , and they should n't even care about what the score is . professor b : yeah . but , i mean , we 'll we 'll we 'll see what they come up with . uh , but in in the current thing , for instance , where you have this well - matched , moderately - matched , and and mis highly - mismatched , uh , the emphasis is somewhat on the on the well - matched , but it 's only a a marginal , phd e : yeah . professor b : right ? it 's like forty , thirty - five , twenty - five , or something like that . so you still if you were way , way off on the highly - mismatched , it would have a big effect . phd d : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and , um , it would n't surprise me if they did something like that with this . so again , if you 're if you get if it does n't help you much , uh , for noisy versions of this of large vocabulary data , then , uh , you know , it may not hurt you that much . but if it if you do n't if it does n't help you much at all , um , or to put it another way , if it helps some people a lot more than it helps other people , uh , if their strategies do , then phd e : mm - hmm . so is this , uh ? uh , guenter was putting a bunch of wall street journal data on our disks . professor b : that 's it . phd e : so that 's the data that we 'll be running on ? professor b : yeah . phd e : i see . ok . professor b : yeah . so we have the data , just not the recognizer . ok . phd e : so this test may take quite a while to run , then . may - judging by the amount of data that he was putting on . professor b : uh , well there 's training and test , right ? phd e : i i guess , i 'm not sure . professor b : no , i mean , if it 's like the other things , there 's there 's data for training the h m ms and and data for testing it . phd e : i just professor b : so i would n't so it it 's phd e : ok . so there 's professor b : so , training the recognizer , but , um um . but i think it 's trained on clean and is it trained on clean and and test on ? phd d : the wall street ? professor b : yeah . phd a : apparently , no . it 's training on a range between ten and twenty db , i think , and testing between five and fifteen . phd d : mm - hmm . yeah . phd a : that 's what i got on phd d : it 's , uh it 's like a medium medium - mismatch condition , sort of . phd a : yeah , professor b : i see . phd a : and so the noise is there is a range of different noises also um which are selected randomly and added randomly , uh , to the files . and there are noises that are different from the noises used on ti - digits . professor b : yeah . yeah . i mean , i would n't imagine that the amount of testing data was that huge . they probably put training uh , almost certain they put training data there too . maybe not . so . that 's that . anybody have anything else ? phd e : uh , one one last question on that . when did they estimate that they would have that system available for download ? phd d : um , i guess i guess one some preliminary version is already there . phd e : oh , so there 's w something you can download to just learn ? phd d : yeah , it 's already there . yeah . but they 're actually parallel - y doing some modifications also , i think . phd e : good . phd d : so i guess the f final system will be frozen by middle of , like , one more week maybe . professor b : oh , well that 's pretty soon . phd d : yeah , that 's just one more . grad c : is this their , um , svm recognizer ? phd d : no , it 's just a straightforward hmm . professor b : you know , their their they have a lot of options in their recognizer and and the svm is one of the things they 've done with it , but it 's not their more standard thing . grad c : oh , ok . uh - huh . professor b : for the most part it 's it 's gaussian mixtures . grad c : oh , ok . oh , ok . professor b : yeah . phd d : it 's just a hmm , gaussian mixture model . grad c : gaussian mixture hmm . professor b : yeah . yeah , the svm thing was an hmm also . it was just a it it it was like a hybrid , like grad c : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah , this is a g yeah , this i professor b : what ? phd d : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd e : so , just so that i understand , they 're providing scripts and everything so that basically , uh , you you push a button and it does training , and then it does test , and everything ? is that the idea ? phd d : i i i think yeah , i i guess something like that . it 's like as painless as possible , phd e : mm - hmm . phd d : is what do they provide all the scripts , everything , and then just , phd e : i see . hmm . somehow yo there 's hooks to put your features in and phd d : ju yeah , i th i think . professor b : hmm . yeah , um . in fact , i mean , if you look into it a little bit , it might be reasonable you know joe , right ? yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : just to sort of ask him about the issue of , um , different features having different kinds of , uh , scaling characteristics and so on . so that , you know , w w possibly having entirely different optimal values for for the usual twiddle factors and what 's what 's the plan about that ? phd d : so sh shall we , like , add chuck also to the mailing lists ? it may be better , i mean , in that case if he 's going to professor b : yeah . phd d : because there 's a mailing list for this . professor b : is that ok ? phd e : yeah , that 'd be great . phd d : yeah , i guess maybe hari or hynek , one of them , has to send a mail to joe . or maybe if you phd e : i i could send him an email . phd d : well , yeah , to add or maybe wh phd e : i i know him really well . phd d : yeah , so that 's just fine . phd e : i i was just talking with him on email the other day actually . phd d : so professor b : uh , yeah , and just , um , se maybe see . phd d : so phd e : about other things , but . professor b : do you have hari 's , uh ? phd e : i have hari 's professor b : yeah , so maybe just cc hari and say that you 've just been asked to handle the large vocabulary part here , and , uh , you know , phd e : ok . would it be better if i asked hari to ask joe ? professor b : uh . why do n't you just ask joe but cc hari , and then in the note say , `` hari , hopefully this is ok with you `` . and then if joe feels like he needs a confirmation , hari can answer it . phd d : yeah . professor b : that way you can get started asking { comment } joe quickly while he 's while he 's maybe still , you know , putting in nails and screws and yeah . phd d : and there is an , uh , archive of all the mails that has been gon that has gone , uh , between these people among these people . so just you can see all this mails in the isip web site mississippi web site . phd e : ok . is that a password controlled ? phd d : yeah , it 's password protected . so , like like , it 's , like professor b : have you thought about how long would be uh , most useful for you to go up to ogi ? phd a : i do n't know , uh . we can for september , we can set up a work schedule and we can maybe work independently . and then at some point it maybe be better to work together again . professor b : oh , so you 're you 're imagining more that you would come back here first for a while and then and then go up there ? phd a : i professor b : i mean , it 's to you . phd a : maybe , yeah . professor b : i ju you guys are well , y anyway , you do n't have to decide this second but thi think about it about what what you would think would be the the best way to work it . i 'll phd a : but , uh huh . mm - hmm . professor b : support it either way , so . phd a : mm - hmm right . professor b : ok . uh . got anything to tell us ? grad c : um . well , i 've been reading some literature about clustering of data . just , um , i guess , let me put it in context . ok , so we 're talking about discovering intermediate categories to , um to classify . and , uh , i was looking at some of the work that , uh , sangita was doing on these traps things . so she has , um she has temporal patterns for , um , a certain set of phonemes , from from timit , right ? the most common phonemes . and each one of them has has a a nice pattern over time , a one one second window . and it has has these patterns . um , so she has , um a trap for each one of the phonemes , um , times fifteen , for each of the fifteen critical bands . and , um , she does this agglomerative hierarchical clustering which which basically , um , is a clustering algorithm that , uh , starts with many , many , many different points many different clusters uh , corresponding to the number of data , uh , patterns that you have in the data . and then you have this distance mej metric which , uh , measures how how closely related they are . and you start , um by merging the patterns that are most closely related . phd e : and you create a tree . grad c : and y yeah , yeah , a dendrogram tree . phd e : mm - hmm . and then you can pick , uh , values anywhere along that tree to fix your set of clusters . grad c : right , usually it 's when , um when the sol similarity measures , um , do n't go down as much . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : and so , uh so you stop at that point . and what she found was , sh um , was there were five broad , um broad categories , uh , corresponding to , uh , things like , uh , fricatives and , uh , vocalic , um , and , uh , stops . professor b : mm - hmm . grad c : and , uh , one for silence and and another one for schwa schwa sounds . um , and , um , i was thinking about ways to to generalize this because w you 're it 's sort of like a it 's not a completely automatic way of clustering , because yo beforehand you have these these traps and you 're saying that that these frames correspond to this particular phoneme . um , and that 's that 's constraining your your clustering to to the set of phonemes that you already have . um , whereas maybe we want to just take take a look at , um , arbitrary windows in time , um , of varying length , um , and cluster those . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : and i 'm thinking if we if we do that , then we would probably , um , at some point in the clustering algorithm find that we 've clustered things like , ok , thi this is a transition , um , this is a relatively stable stable point . phd e : mm - hmm . grad c : um , and i 'm hoping to find other things of of similarity and maybe use these things as the intermediate , um intermediate categories that , uh , um , i 'll later classify . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : are you looking at these in narrow bands ? grad c : um , right . f um , i 'm professor b : cuz that 's what you 're gon na be using , right ? grad c : yeah , yeah . i i have n't exactly figured out , um , the exact details for that but , uh , the the representation of the data that i was thinking of , was using , um , critical band , um , energies , um , over different lengths of time . so yeah . professor b : yeah , i mean , it seems somehow that needs th uh , there 's a couple things that i wonder about with this . i mean , so one is is , again , looking at the same representation , i mean , if you 're going for this sort of thing where you have uh , little detectors that are looking at narrow bands , then what you 're going to be looking for should be some category that you can find with the narrow bands . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : that that seems to be kind of fundamental to it . um , and then the other thing , uh , is that i wonder about with it , and and do n't take this in the wrong way , like i i know what i 'm doing or anything , grad c : right . professor b : but , i mean . um , just wondering really . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : um , the sort of standard answer about this sort of thing is that if you 're trying to find the right system in some sense , whether you 're trying by categories or or parameters um , and your goal is discrimination , then having choices based on discrimination as opposed to , um , unsupervised nearness of things , um , is actually better . um , and i do n't know if that i mean , since you 're dealing with issues of robustness , you know , maybe maybe this is n't right , but it 'd be something i 'd be concerned about . because , for instance , you can imagine , uh , uh , i i if you remember from from , uh from your your quals , john ohala saying that , uh , `` buh `` { comment } and `` puh `` { comment } differed , uh , not really cuz of voicing but because of aspiration . i mean , in as far as wha what 's really there in the acoustics . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : so , um , if you looked if you were doing some coarse clustering , you probably would put those two sounds together . and yet , i would gue i would guess that many of your recognition errors were coming from , uh , um , pfft , { comment } screwing up on this distinction . grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : so , in fact , it 's a little hard because recognizers , to first order , sort of work . and the reasons we 're doing the things we 're doing is because they do n't work as well as we 'd like . and since they sort of work , uh , it means that they are already doing if you go and take any recognizer that 's already out there and you say , `` how well is it distinguishing between schwas and stops ? `` grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : boy , i bet they 're all doing nearly perfectly on this , right ? grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : so these these big categories that differ in huge obvious ways , we already know how to do . so , what are we bringing to the party ? i mean , in fact what we wan na do is have something that , particularly in the presence of noise , uh , is better at distinguishing between , uh , categories that are actually close to one another , and hence , would probably be clustered together . so that 's th that 's the hard thing . i mean , i understand that there 's this other constraint that you 're considering , is that you wan na have categories that , uh that would be straightforward for , say , a human being to mark if you had manual annotation . and it 's something that you really think you can pick up . but i think it 's also essential that you wan na look at what are the confusions that you 're making and how can you come up with , uh , categories that , uh , can clarify these confusions . grad c : mm - hmm . hmm . professor b : so , i mean , the standard sort of way of doing that is take a look at the algorithms you 're looking at , but then throw in some discriminative aspect to it . y y this is more like , you know , how does lda differ from pca ? i mean , they 're the same sort of thing . they 're both orthogonalizing . grad c : right . professor b : but , you know and and , um , this is a little harder because you 're not just trying to find parameters . you 're actually trying to find the the the the categories themselves . uh , so a little more like brain surgery , i think on yourself . uh . so , uh grad c : yeah . professor b : um , anyway . that 's my thought . you 've been thinking about this problem for a long time actually . i mean , well w actually , you stopped thinking about it for a long time , but you used to think about it a lot . phd e : yeah . professor b : and you 've been thinking about it more now , phd d : yeah . professor b : these categories . phd e : yeah . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : i guess i do n't i do n't um , it 's not clear to me how to reconcile , you know , what you 're saying , which i think is right , with the way i 've been looking at it . that it 's it 's it 's all not very clear to me . but it seems to me that the desire the desirable feature to have is something that , um , is bottom - up . you know , however we do that . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and and so i guess what i do n't understand is how to do that and still be discriminative , because to be discriminative you have to have categories and the only categories that we know of to use are sort of these human human sig significant categories that are significant to humans , like phonemes , things like that . professor b : right . phd e : but that 's sort of what you want to avoid . and so that feels i do n't know how to get out of this . professor b : well , here 's a here 's a , uh , uh here 's a generic and possibly useless thought , which is , um , what do you really i mean , in a sense the only s s systems that make sense , uh , are ones that that have something from top - down in th in them . right ? because if e even the smallest organism that 's trying to learn to do anything , if it does n't have any kind of reward for doing or penal penalty for doing anything , then it 's just going to behave randomly . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so whether you 're talking about something being learned through evolution or being learned through experience , it 's got ta have something come down to it that gives its reward or , you know , at least some reinforcement learning , phd e : right . professor b : right ? phd e : so the question is , how far down ? we could stop at words , but we do n't , right ? we go all the way down to phonemes . professor b : right , but i me i i think that maybe in some ways part of the difficulty is is trying to deal with the with these phonemes . you know , and and and i it 's almost like you want categories if if our if our , uh , um , metric of of goodness , uh , i if our phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : correction if our metric of badness is word error rate then , um , maybe we should be looking at words . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , for for for very nice , uh , reasons we 've looked for a while at syllables , and they have a lot of good properties , but i i i if you go all the way to words , i mean , that 's really i mean , d w in many applications you wan na go further . you wan na go to concepts or something , or have have have concepts , actions , this sort of thing . phd e : yeah . but words would be a nice professor b : but , words are n't bad , yeah . and and phd e : yeah , so the common right , the common wisdom is you ca n't do words because there 's too many of them , right ? so you have to have some smaller set that you can use , uh , and and so everybody goes to phonemes . but the problem is that we we build models of words in terms of phonemes and these models are are really cartoon - ish , right ? so when you look at conversational speech , for example , you do n't see the phonemes that you that you have in your word models . professor b : yeah . but but but we 're not trying for models of words here . see , so her here 's maybe where if the issue is that we 're trying to come up with , um , some sort of intermediate categories which will then be useful for later stuff , uh , then maybe it does n't matter that we ca n't have enough phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , what you wan na do is is build up these categories that are that are best for word recognition . phd e : right . right . professor b : and and somehow if that 's built into the loop of what the categories i mean , we do this every day in this very gross way of of running o a thousand experiments phd e : right . professor b : because we have fast computers and picking the thing that has the best word error rate . phd e : yeah . professor b : in some way i mean , we derive that all the time . in some ways it 's really not { comment } a bad bad thing to do because it tells you in fact how your adjustments at the very low level affect the the final goal . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : um , so maybe there 's a way to even put that in in a much more automatic way , phd e : right . professor b : where you take , you know , something about the error at the level of the word or some other it could be syllable but in some large unit , phd e : uh - huh . professor b : uh , and uh yeah , you may not have word models , you have phone models , whatever , but you sort of do n't worry about that , and just somehow feed it back through . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : you know , so that 's , uh , wh what i called a useless comments because i 'm not really telling you how to do it . but i mean , it 's a it 's it 's , you know it phd e : no , but i think the important part in there is that , you know , if you want to be discriminative , you have to have uh , you know , categories . professor b : right . phd e : and i think this the important categories are the words , and not the phones . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd e : maybe . and so right . if you can put the words in to the loop somehow for determining goodness of your sets of clusters uh professor b : now , that being said , i think that that if you have something that is , um i once you start dealing with spontaneous speech , all the things you 're saying are are really true . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : if you have read speech that 's been manually annotated , like timit , then , you know , i i you the phones are gon na be right , actually , for the most part . phd e : yeah . yeah , professor b : so so , uh , it does n't really hurt them to to do that , to put in discrimination at that level . phd e : yeah . professor b : um , if you go to spontaneous speech then it 's it 's trickier and and and , uh , the phones are uh , you know , it 's gon na be based on bad pronunciation models that you have of and , um and it wo n't allow for the overlapping phenomenon phd e : mmm . so it 's almost like there 's this mechanism that we have that , you know , when when we 're hearing read speech and all the phonemes are there you know , we we deal with that , but but when we go to conversational , and then all of a sudden not all the phonemes are there , it does n't really matter that much to us as humans because we have some kind of mechanism that allows for these word models , whatever those models are , to be munged , you know , and and it does n't really hurt , and i 'm not sure how how to build that in . uh . professor b : yeah , i mean , i guess the other thing i is is to think of a little bit i mean , we when y when you start looking at these kind of results i think it usually is is pretty intuitive , but start looking at um , what are the kinds of confusions that you do make , uh , you know , between words if you want or or or , uh , even phones in in in in read speech , say , uh , when there is noise . you know , so is it more across place or more across manner ? or is it cor you know , is it ? grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , i know one thing that happens is that you you you , uh , you lose the , um , uh , low energy phones . i mean , if there 's added noise then low energy phones sometimes do n't get heard . and if that if that is if it uh , if that turns it into another word or or different you know , or another pair of words or something , then it 's more likely to happen . but , um , i do n't know , i w i would i would guess that you 'd grad c : mm - hmm . professor b : w i do n't know . anyway , that 's phd e : i think part of the difficulty is that a l a lot of the robustness that we have is probably coming from a much higher level . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : you know , we understand the context of the situation when we 're having a conversation . and so if there 's noise in there , you know , our brain fills in and imagines what what should be there . professor b : well that grad c : yeah . we 're we 're doing some sort of prediction of what phd e : yeah , exactly . professor b : oh , sure , that 's really big . grad c : yeah . professor b : uh , but i mean , even if you do um , uh , diagnostic rhyme test kind of things , you know , where there really is n't an any information like that , uh , people are still better in noise than they than they are in in , uh uh , than the machines are . so , i mean , that 's i right . we ca n't we ca n't get it at all without any language models . language models are there and important but but , uh uh . if we 're not working on that then we should work on something else and improve it , but especially if it looks like the potential is there . so should we do some digits ? phd e : yeah . professor b : since we 're here ? phd e : go ahead , morgan . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on project logistics </s> professor b : what was the update ? phd a : what was the update ? so there is th then the all the new features that go in . professor b : yeah . phd a : the , um , noise suppression , the re - synthesis of speech after suppression . these are the phd e : is the , um the cvs mechanism working well ? phd a : yeah . phd e : are are people , uh , up at ogi grabbing code uh , via that ? phd d : uh , i do n't think i do n't think phd e : or ? phd a : i do n't know if they use it , but . phd d : yeah , i i do n't think anybody up there is like working on it right now . phd e : uh - huh . mmm . professor b : i think it more likely that what it means is that when sunil is up there he will grab it . phd d : yeah . yeah . so right now nobody 's working on aurora there . phd e : yeah . professor b : they 're yeah . they 're working on a different task . phd e : i see . i see . phd d : yeah . professor b : but what 'll happen is is he 'll go back up there and , uh , pratibha will come back from from , uh , the east coast . uh . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh and and i guess actually , uh , after eurospeech for a little bit , uh , he 'll go up there too . so , actually everybody who 's working on it { comment } will be up there for at least a little while . so they 'll remotely access it from there . phd e : so has has anybody tried remotely accessing the cvs using , uh , uh , ssh ? professor b : yeah . phd a : um , i do n't know if hari did that or you d phd d : i { comment } can actually do it today . i mean , i can just log into phd e : have you tried it yet ? phd d : no , i did n't . so i i 'll try it today . professor b : good idea . phd a : actually i i tried wh while when i installed the repository , i tried from belgium . professor b : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd a : i logged in there and i tried to import phd e : yeah ? it worked good ? phd a : yeah , it works . phd e : oh , good ! phd a : but it 's so , right now it 's the mechanism with ssh . phd e : great ! phd a : i do n't s i did n't set up you can also set up a cvs server on a new port . it 's like well uh , a main server , or d you can do a cvs server . phd e : yeah . right . then that 's using the cvs password mechanism and all that , phd a : but . yeah , right . phd e : right ? phd a : but i did n't do that because i was not sure about security problems . i i would have to </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about cvs security ? </s> phd e : so has has anybody tried remotely accessing the cvs using , uh , uh , ssh ? professor b : yeah . phd a : um , i do n't know if hari did that or you d phd d : i { comment } can actually do it today . i mean , i can just log into phd e : have you tried it yet ? phd d : no , i did n't . so i i 'll try it today . professor b : good idea . phd a : actually i i tried wh while when i installed the repository , i tried from belgium . professor b : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd a : i logged in there and i tried to import phd e : yeah ? it worked good ? phd a : yeah , it works . phd e : oh , good ! phd a : but it 's so , right now it 's the mechanism with ssh . phd e : great ! phd a : i do n't s i did n't set up you can also set up a cvs server on a new port . it 's like well uh , a main server , or d you can do a cvs server . phd e : yeah . right . then that 's using the cvs password mechanism and all that , phd a : but . yeah , right . phd e : right ? phd a : but i did n't do that because i was not sure about security problems . i i would have to phd e : so w when you came in from belgian { comment } belgium , using ssh , uh , was it asking you for your own password into icsi ? so if yo you can only do that if you have an account at icsi ? phd a : right . yeah . yeah . phd e : cuz there is an a way to set up anonymous cvs right ? phd a : yeah , you ha in this way you ca you have to set up a cvs server but then , yeah , you can access it . phd e : so that oh , ok . phd a : you you can set up priorities . phd e : so the anonymous mechanism phd a : you can access them and mostly if you if y the set the server is set up like this . phd e : ok . because a lot of the open source stuff works with anonymous cvs and i 'm just wondering uh , i mean , for our transcripts we may want to do that . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about ogi and cvs ? </s> phd a : yeah . phd e : are are people , uh , up at ogi grabbing code uh , via that ? phd d : uh , i do n't think i do n't think phd e : or ? phd a : i do n't know if they use it , but . phd d : yeah , i i do n't think anybody up there is like working on it right now . phd e : uh - huh . mmm . professor b : i think it more likely that what it means is that when sunil is up there he will grab it . phd d : yeah . yeah . so right now nobody 's working on aurora there . phd e : yeah . professor b : they 're yeah . they 're working on a different task . phd e : i see . i see . phd d : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about evaluation ? </s> phd e : yeah . professor b : uh . but , um . yeah , the other thing is that even though it 's months away , uh , it 's starting to seem to me now like november fifteenth is right around the corner . and , um , if they have n't decided things like this , like what the parameters are gon na be for this , uh , when `` deciding `` is not just somebody deciding . i mean , in fact there should be some understanding behind the , uh , deciding , which means some experiments and and so forth . it it it seems pretty tight to me . phd e : so wha what 's the significance of november fifteenth ? professor b : that 's when the evaluation is . yeah . so , yeah , so after but , you know , they may even decide in the end to push it off . it would n't , you know , entirely surprise me . but , uh , due to other reasons , like some people are going away , i 'm i 'm hoping it 's not pushed off for a l a long while . that would be , uh put us in an awkward position . but anyway . great . yeah , i think that 'll be helpful . there 's there 's not anybody ogi currently who 's who 's , uh , working with this and and phd e : is is this part of the evaluation just a small part , or ho how important is this to the overall ? professor b : i i think it 's it 's , um it depends how badly you do . i mean , i think that it it is uh . phd e : this is one of those things that will be debated afterwards ? professor b : yeah . well , i mean , it 's it 's conceptually , it my impression , again , you guys correct me if i 'm wrong , but my impression is that , um , they want it as a double check . that you have n't come across you have n't invented features which are actually gon na do badly for a a significantly different task , particularly one with larger vocabulary . and , um , but it 's not the main emphasis . i mean , the truth is , most of the applications they 're looking at are pretty small vocabulary . so it 's it 's a double check . so they 'll probably assign it some sort of low weight . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about insertion penalties ? </s> phd d : uh , i i think they are still , uh , tuning something on that . so they 're like , d they 're varying different parameters like the insertion penalty and other stuff , and then seeing what 's the performance . phd e : are those going to be parameters that are frozen , nobody can change ? or ? phd d : uh , w i guess there is , uh , time during which people are gon na make suggestions . phd e : oh , but everybody 's gon na have to use the same values . phd d : after that . phd e : oh ! interesting . phd d : yeah , i guess . so these sugges these this , uh , period during which people are gon na make suggestions is to know whether it is actually biased towards any set of features or professor b : yeah , so i th th certainly the thing that i would want to know about is whether we get really hurt , uh , on in insertion penalty , language model , scaling , sorts of things . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the wall street journal data ? </s> phd e : mm - hmm . so is this , uh ? uh , guenter was putting a bunch of wall street journal data on our disks . professor b : that 's it . phd e : so that 's the data that we 'll be running on ? professor b : yeah . phd e : i see . ok . professor b : yeah . so we have the data , just not the recognizer . ok . phd e : so this test may take quite a while to run , then . may - judging by the amount of data that he was putting on . professor b : uh , well there 's training and test , right ? phd e : i i guess , i 'm not sure . professor b : no , i mean , if it 's like the other things , there 's there 's data for training the h m ms and and data for testing it . phd e : i just professor b : so i would n't so it it 's phd e : ok . so there 's professor b : so , training the recognizer , but , um um . but i think it 's trained on clean and is it trained on clean and and test on ? phd d : the wall street ? </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd e : yeah . professor b : um , so . if we ca n't , we ca n't . but uh we 're gon na try to make this an abbreviated meeting cuz the the next next occupants were pushing for it , so . um . so . agenda is according to this , is transcription status , darpa demos xml tools , disks , backups , et cetera and grad h : does anyone have anything to add to the agenda ? professor b : ok . should we just go in order ? transcription status ? who 's that 's probably you . postdoc a : i can do that quickly . um i hired several more transcribers , they 're making great progress . professor b : seven ? postdoc a : seve - several , several . and uh and uh , uh i 've been uh finishing up the uh double checking . i hoped to have had that done by today but it 's gon na take one more week . grad h : as a somewhat segue into the next topic , um could i get a hold of uh the data even if it 's not really corrected yet just so i can get the data formats and make sure the information retrieval stuff is working ? postdoc a : certainly . yeah i mean , it 's in the same place it 's been . grad h : so can you just oh , it is . postdoc a : uh - huh . no change . grad h : ok . just so , `` transcripts `` is the sub - directory ? postdoc a : uh yes . uh - huh . grad h : ok . so i 'll i 'll probably just make some copies of those rather than use the ones that are there . um and then just we 'll have to remember to delete them once the corrections are made . professor b : ok , wh phd d : i also got anot a short remark to the transcription . i 've uh just processed the first five edu meetings and they are chunked up so they would they probably can be sent to ibm whenever they want them . grad c : cool . phd f : well the second one of those phd d : yep . it 's already at ibm , phd f : is already at ibm . phd d : but the other ones phd f : that 's the one that we 're waiting to hear from them on . phd d : yeah . yeah . phd f : yeah . postdoc a : these are separate from the ones that phd f : as soon as postdoc a : i mean , these are phd f : they 're the ibm set . grad h : it 's this one . postdoc a : excellent . good . phd f : yeah . and so as soon as we hear from brian that this one is ok grad h : is my mike on ? yeah . phd f : and we get the transcript back and we find out that hopefully there are no problems matching up the transcript with what we gave them , then uh we 'll be ready to go and we 'll just send them the next four as a big batch , postdoc a : excellent . phd f : and let them work on that . grad h : and so we 're doing those as disjoint from the ones we 're transcribing here ? phd f : yes , exactly . grad h : ok , good . phd f : we 're sort of doing things in parallel , that way we can get as much done a at once . grad h : yeah , i think that 's the right way to do it , phd f : yeah . grad h : especially for the information retrieval stuff . anything else on transcription status ? postdoc a : hm - mmm . professor b : darpa demos , we had the submeeting the other day . grad h : right , which uh so i 've been working on using the thisl tools to do information retrieval on meeting data and the thisl tools are there 're two sets , there 's a back - end and a front - end , so the front - end is the user interface and the back - end is the indexing tool and the querying tool . and so i 've written some tools to convert everything into the right for file formats . and the command line version of the indexing and the querying is now working . so at least on the one meeting that i had the transcript for uh conveniently you can now do information retrieval on it , do type in a a string and get back a list of start - end times for the meeting , phd f : what what kind of uh what does that look like ? the string that you type in . grad h : uh of hits . phd f : what are you are you are they keywords , or are they ? grad h : keywords . phd f : ok . i see . grad h : right ? and so and then it munges it to pass it to the thisl ir which uses an sgml - like format for everything . phd f : i see . professor b : and then does it play something back or that 's something you 're having to program ? grad h : um , right now , i have a tool that will do that on a command line using our standard tools , professor b : yeah . grad h : but my intention is to do a prettier user interface based either so so that 's the other thing i wanted to discuss , is well what should we do for the user interface ? we have two tools that have already been written . um the softsound guys did a web - based one , professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : um , which i have n't used , have n't looked at . dan says it 's pretty good professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : but it does mean you need to be running a web server . professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : and so it it 's pretty big and complex . uh and it would be difficult to port to windows because it means porting the web server to windows . professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : uh the other option is dan did the tcl - tk thisl gui front - end for broadcast news professor b : yeah . grad h : which i think looks great . i think that 's a nice demo . um and that would be much easier to port to windows . and so i think that 's the way we should go . postdoc a : i can i ask a question ? so um as it stands within the the channeltrans interface , it 's possible to do a find and a play . grad h : mm - hmm . postdoc a : you can find a searched string and play . so e are you so you 're adding like um , i do n't know , uh are they fuzzy matches or are they uh ? grad h : it 's a sort of standard , text - retrieval - based so it 's uh term frequency , inverse document frequency scoring . um and then there are all sorts of metrics for spacing how far apart they have to be and things like that . so it it 's postdoc a : it 's a lot more sophisticated than the uh the basically windows - based grad h : i it 's like doing a google query or anyth anything else like that . so i it uses so it pr produces an index ahead of time so you do n't you 're not doing a linear search through all the documents . cuz you can imagine if with if we have the sixty hours ' worth you do would n't wan na do a search . postdoc a : hm - mmm . good . grad h : um you have to do preindexing and so that these tools do all that . and so the work to get the front - end to work would be porting it well uh to get it to work on the unix systems , our side is just rewriting them and modifying them to work for meetings . professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : so that it understands that they 're different speakers and that it 's one big audio file instead of a bunch of little ones and just sorta things like that . professor b : mm - hmm . phd g : mm - hmm . phd f : so what does the user see as the result of the query ? grad h : on which tool ? phd f : thisl . grad h : the thisl gui tool which is the one that dan wrote , tcl - tk phd f : yeah . grad h : um you type in a query and then you get back a list of hits and you can type on them and listen to them . click on them rather { comment } with a mouse . phd f : so if you typed in `` small heads `` or something you could grad h : right , you 'd get phd f : get back a uh uh { comment } something that would let you click and listen to some audio where that phrase had occurred grad h : something you you 'd get to listen to `` beep `` . phd f : or some professor b : that was a really good look . it 's too bad that that could n't come into the grad h : you could n't get a video . phd g : guess who i practice on ? postdoc a : at some point we 're gon na have to say what that private joke is , that keeps coming up . professor b : yeah . and then again , maybe not . so , uh yeah , that soun that sounds reasonable . yeah , it loo it my my recollection of it is it 's it 's a pretty reasonable uh demo sort of format . grad h : right . phd f : yeah that sounds good . grad h : and so i think there 'd be minimal effort to get it to work , minimally phd f : that sounds really neat . grad h : and then we 'd wan na add things like query by speaker and by meeting and all that sort of stuff . um dave gelbart expressed some interest in working on that so i 'll work with him on it . and it it 's looking pretty good , you know , the fact that i got the query system working . so if we wan na just do a video - based one i think that 'll be easy . professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : if we wan na get it to windows it 's gon na be a little more work because the thisl ir , the information retrieval tool 's um , i had difficulty just compiling them on solaris . professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : so getting them to compile on windows might be challenging . professor b : mm - hmm . phd f : but you were saying that that the uh that there 's that set of tools , uh , cygnus tools , that grad h : so . it certainly helps . phd f : uh - huh . grad h : um , i mean without those i would n't even attempt it . professor b : mm - hmm . phd f : yeah . grad h : but what those they what those do is provide sort of a bsd compatibility layer , professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : so that the normal unix function calls all work . professor b : mm - hmm . phd f : and you have to have all the o grad h : um , but the problem is that that the thisl tools did n't use anything like autoconf and so you have the normal porting problems of different header files and th some things are defined and some things are n't and uh different compiler work - arounds and so on . so the fact that um it took me a day to get it c to compile under solaris means it 's probably gon na take me s significantly more than that to get it to compile under windows . professor b : how about having it run under free bsd ? phd e : well what you need grad h : free bsd would probably be easier . phd e : all you need to do is say to dan `` gee it would be nice if this worked under autoconf `` and it 'll be done in a day . grad h : that 's true . phd d : uh phd e : right ? grad h : actually you know i should check because he did port it to sprachcore phd e : right . grad h : so he might have done that already . phd e : i i i would n't be surprised . professor b : so grad h : i 'll check at that professor b : but it would what would serve would serve both purposes , is if you contact him and ask him if he 's already done it . phd e : what i phd f : how does it play ? grad h : yeah , right . professor b : if he has then you learn , if he has n't then he 'll do it . grad h : right . phd f : i hope he never listens to these meetings . grad h : that 's right . so , and i 've been corresponding with dan and also with uh uh , softsound guy , uh postdoc a : it 's amazing . professor b : yeah . grad h : blanking on his name . professor b : tony robinson ? phd f : tony robinson ? grad h : do i mean tony ? i guess i do . professor b : yeah . phd e : james christie . grad h : or s or steve renals . professor b : steve renal - steve renals . grad h : which one do i mean ? phd e : steve renals is not softsound , is he ? grad h : my brain is not working , i do n't remember who i 've been corresponding with . phd e : steve wro i it 's ste - steve renals wrote thisl ir . grad h : then it 's steve renals . professor b : oh , ok . grad h : so uh just getting documentation and uh and f and formats , professor b : yeah . grad h : so that 's all going pretty well , professor b : assuming we 're phd e : right . phd f : what about issues of playing sound files @ @ between the two platforms ? grad h : i think we 'll be ok with that . um we have well , that 's a good point too . phd e : here 's a here 's a crazy idea actually . grad h : i do n't know . phd e : why do n't you try and merge transcriber and thisl ir ? they 're both tcl interfaces . grad h : well this is one of the reasons this is the one of the reasons that i 'm gon na have uh dave gelbart gelbart having him volunteer to work on it is a really good thing because he 's worked on the transcriber stuff phd e : right . grad h : and he 's more familiar with tcl - tk than i am . phd e : and then you get they then you get the windows media playing for free . grad h : well that 's snack , not not transcriber . phd e : right . but the point is that the transcriber uses snack and then you can but you can use a a lot of the same functionality and it 's grad h : yeah , yeah , i mean , i i think thisl thisl gui probably uses snack . and so my intention was just to base it on that . phd e : yeah . well my thought was is that it would be nice it would be nice to have the running transcripts um eh you know , from speaker to speaker . grad h : and if it does n't phd e : right ? do you have you have , you know , a speaker mark here and a speaker mark here ? grad h : right , we 'll have to figure out a user interface for that , so . phd e : right . well that eh my thought was if you had like multitrans or whatever do it . or whatever . grad h : yeah . it might be fairly difficult to get that to work in { comment } the little short segments we 'd be talking about and having the search tools and so on . we we can look into it , phd e : yeah . grad h : but professor b : the thing i was asking about with , um , free bsd is that it might be easier to get powerpoint shows running in free bsd than to get this other package running in grad h : yeah , i mean we have to i have to sit down and try it before i make too many judgments , professor b : yeah . grad h : so uh um my experience with the gnu compatibility library is really it 's just as hard and just as easy to port to any system . right ? the windows system is n't any harder because it it looks like a bsd system . professor b : mm - hmm . grad h : it 's just , you know , just like all of them , the `` include `` files are a little different and the function calls are a little different . professor b : right . grad h : so i it might be a little easier but it 's not gon na be a lot easier . professor b : ok . so there was that demo , which was one of the main ones , then we talked about um some other stuff which would basically be um showing off the the transcriber interface itself and as you say , maybe we could even merge those in some sense , but but um , uh and part of that was showing off what the speech - non uh nonspeech { comment } stuff that thilo has done s looks like . phd d : yeah . postdoc a : can i ask one more thing about thisl ? so with the ir stuff then you end up with a somewhat prioritized um ? grad h : mm - hmm . mm - hmm , postdoc a : excellent . grad h : ranked . postdoc a : excellent . yeah . phd g : so another idea i w t had just now actually for the demo was whether it might be of interest to sh to show some of the prosody uh work that don 's been doing . professor b : mm - hmm . phd g : um actually show some of the features and then show for instance a task like finding sentence boundaries or finding turn boundaries . um , you know , you can show that graphically , sort of what the features are doing . it , you know , it does n't work great but it 's definitely giving us something . professor b : well i think at at the very least we 're gon na want something illustrative with that phd g : i do n't know if that would be of interest or not . professor b : cuz i 'm gon na want to talk about it and so i if there 's something that shows it graphically it 's much better than me just having a bullet point phd g : yeah . professor b : pointing at something i do n't know much about , phd g : i mean , you 're looking at this now are you looking at waves or matlab ? grad c : um yeah i 'm starting to and um yeah we can probably find some examples of different type of prosodic events going on . phd g : yeah def professor b : s so when we here were having this demo meeting , what we 're sort of coming up with is that we wan na have all these pieces together , to first order , by the end of the month and then that 'll give us a week or so . grad c : ooo . the end of phd g : oh , the end of this month or next month ? oh , you mean like today ? grad h : this month . professor b : june . june . june . phd g : next month . grad h : oh sorry , next month . grad c : yeah . phd g : sorry . grad h : today is n't june first , phd f : there 's another one . grad h : is it . professor b : uh that 'll that 'll give us that 'll give us a week or so to uh to port things over to my laptop and make sure that works , phd e : exactly . phd g : sorry . professor b : yeah . phd g : i think , i mean eh where grad c : yeah , i mean i 'll be here . phd g : yeah if d if don can sort of talk to whoever 's professor b : yeah . phd g : cuz we 're doing this anyway as part of our you know , the research , visualizing what these features are doing professor b : yeah . phd g : and so either it might not be integrated but it it could potentially be in it . professor b : yeah . well , this is to an audience of researchers phd g : could find some . professor b : so i mean , you know , to let s the goal is to let them know what it is we 're doing . phd g : i mean it 's different . professor b : so that 's phd g : i do n't think anyone has done this on meeting data so it might be neat , you know . professor b : yeah . good . done with that . xml tools ? grad h : um . so i 've been doing a bunch of xml tools where you we 're sort of moving to xml as the general format for everything and i think that 's definitely the right way to go because there are a lot of tools that let you do extraction and reformatting of xml tools . um . so yet again we should probably meet to talk about transcription formats in xml because i 'm not particularly happy with what we have now . i mean it works with transcriber but it it 's a pain to use it in other tools uh because it does n't mark start and end . phd f : start and end of each ? phd d : yeah . grad h : uh utterance . phd f : utterance . just marks ? grad h : so it 's implicit in in there phd f : yeah . grad h : but you have to do a lot of processing to get it . phd f : right . right . grad h : and so and also i 'd like to do the indirect time line business . um but regardless , i mean , w that 's something that you , me , and jane can talk about later . um , but i 've installed xml tools of various sorts in various languages and so if people are interested in doing extracting any information from any of these files , either uh information on users because the user database is that way i 'm converting the key files to xml so that you can extract m uh various inf uh sorted information on individual meetings grad c : cool . phd d : yeah . grad h : and then also the transcripts . and so l just let me know there it 's mostly java and perl but we can get other languages too if if that 's desirable . phd g : oh , quick question on that . is do we have the the seat information ? in in the key files now ? postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad h : the seat information is on the key files for the ones which phd g : oh in for the new one grad h : it 's been recorded , yeah . professor b : seat ? phd g : great . sea - yeah . grad h : where where you 're sitting . professor b : oh ! not not the quality or anything . no . grad h : right . professor b : ok . i see . grad h : `` it 's pretty soft and squishy . `` professor b : yeah . yeah . phd g : alright . grad h : oh , but that might just be me . um . phd g : alright . professor b : that 's more seat information than we wanted . phd g : never mind . i 'm just trying to figure out , you know , when morgan 's voice appears on someone 's microphone are they next to him or are they across from him ? professor b : yeah . grad h : maybe we should bleep that out . professor b : mmm , yeah . phd f : wait a minute , professor b : yeah . phd f : how how w eh where is it in the key file ? grad h : right . the square bracket . phd g : cuz i mean i have n't been putting it in and in by grad h : you have n't been putting it in . phd g : right . postdoc a : well bu phd g : i have not . grad h : oh , ok . postdoc a : is n't it always on the digits ? professor b : some of these are missing . phd g : and professor b : are n't they ? postdoc a : is n't it always on the digits forms ? professor b : some fall out of phd g : well it grad h : yeah so we can go back and fill them in for the ones we have . phd g : i mean they 're on th right , these , but i just had n't ever been putting it in the key files . phd f : yeah i i never phd g : and i do n't think chuck was either phd f : i never knew we were supposed to put it in the key file . phd g : cuz grad h : i had told you guys about it phd f : oh really ? phd g : oh , so we 're both sorry . grad h : but phd g : so grad h : i mean this is why i wan na use a g a tool to do it rather than the plain text because with the plain text it 's very easy to skip those things . so . um if you use the edit - key , or key - edit phd d : edit - key . grad h : i think it 's edit - key , { comment } command did i show you guys that ? phd f : you mentioned it , grad h : i did show it to you , phd f : yeah . yeah . grad h : but i think you both said `` no , you 'll just use text file `` . phd f : text . grad h : um it has it in there , a place to fill it in . yeah , and so if you do n't fill it in , you 're not gon na get it in the meetings . phd g : so if right . well i i just realized i had n't been doing it and probably so grad h : yeah and then the other thing also that thilo noticed is , on the microphone , on channel zero it says hand - held mike or crown mike , phd g : yeah . right . grad h : you actually have to say which one . phd g : i know yeah , i usually delete the phd f : oh ! ok . i did n't do that either . phd g : i do n't , phd d : yeah . phd g : maybe i forgot to d phd f : takes me no time at all to edit these . phd g : but it 's almost yeah . grad h : yeah that 's cuz you kn phd f : i 'm not doing anything . grad h : i i know why . phd g : and i was i was looking at chuck 's , like , `` oh what did chuck do , ok i 'll do that `` . so . grad h : and then uh also in a couple of places instead of filling the participants under `` participants `` they were filled in under `` description `` . professor b : ah , ok . phd g : uh grad h : and so that 's also a problem . so anyway . phd g : we will do better . grad h : that 's it . oh uh also i 'm working on another version of this tool , the the one that shows up here , { comment } that will flash yellow if the mike is n't connected . and it 's not quite ready to go yet because um it 's hard to tell whether the mike 's connected or not because the best quality ones , the crown ones , { comment } are about the same level if they 're off and no one 's o off or if they 're on and no one 's talking . um these these ones , they are much easier , there 's a bigger difference . so i 'm working on that and it it sorta works and so eventually we will change to that and then you 'll be able to see graphically if your mike is dropping in or out . grad c : will that also include like batteries dying ? just a any time the mike 's putting out zeros basically . grad h : yep . yep . yep . phd f : but with the screensaver kicking in , it grad h : now phd d : y yeah . grad c : yeah . phd d : yeah . grad h : well i 'll turn off the screensaver too . grad c : oops . speaking of which . grad h : um the other thing is as i 've said before , it is actually on the thing . there 's a little level meter but of course no one ever pays attention to it . so i think having it on the screen is more easy to notice . postdoc a : it would be nice if if these had little light indicators , little l e ds for grad h : uh buzzer . postdoc a : yeah , a buzzer . grad h : `` bamp , bamp ! `` professor b : small shocks postdoc a : yeah . actually professor b : administered to the ok . oh grad h : ok , disk backup , et cetera ? um i spoke with dave johnson about putting all the meeting recorder stuff on non - backed - up disk to save the overhead of backup and he pretty much said `` yeah , you could do that if you want `` but he thought it was a bad idea . in fact what he said is doing the manual one , { comment } doing uh nw archive to copy it { comment } is a good idea and we should do that and have it backed up . he w he 's a firm believer in in lots of different modalities of backup . i mean , his point was well taken . this data can not be recovered . phd g : yeah . grad h : and so if a mistake is made and we lose the backup we should have the archive and if then a mistake is made and we lose the archive we should have the backup . professor b : well i guess it is true that even with something that 's backed up it 's not gon na if it 's stationary it 's not going to go through the increment it 's not gon na burden things in the incremental backups . grad h : just just the monthly full . professor b : yeah , so the monthly full will be a bear but grad h : yeah . but he said that that we sh should n't worry too much about that , that we 're getting a new backup system and we 're far enough away from saturation on full backups that it 's w probably ok . professor b : really ? grad h : and uh , so the only issue here is the timing between getting more disks and uh recording meetings . professor b : so i guess the idea is that we would be reserving the non - backed - up space for things that took less than twenty - four hours to recreate or something like that , right ? grad h : things that are recreatable easily and also yeah , basically things that are recreatable . professor b : yeah . yeah . grad h : the expanded files and things like that . they take up a lot more room anyway . professor b : yeah . grad h : uh but we do need more disk . professor b : so we can get more disk . yeah . so . grad h : yeah . and i i think i agree with him . i mean his point was well taken that if we lose one of these we can not get it back . i do n't think there was any other et cetera there . professor b : well i was allowing someone else to come up with something related that they had uh phd e : i thought you guys were gon na burn c ds ? grad h : um unfortunately we could burn c ds but first of all it 's a pain . phd e : yeah . grad h : because you have to copy it down to the pc and then burn it and that 's a multi - step procedure . and second of all the the write - once burners as opposed to a professional press do n't last . phd e : yeah . grad h : so i think burning them for distribution is fine but burning them for backup is not a good idea . phd e : i see . ok . grad h : cuz th they they fail after a couple years . phd e : alright . postdoc a : i do have uh uh it 's a different topic . can i add one top topic ? we have time ? i wanted to ask , i know that uh that thilo you were , um , bringing the channeltrans interface onto the windows machine ? and i wanted to know is th phd d : yeah it 's it basically it 's done , postdoc a : it 's all done ? that 's g wonderful . great . phd d : yeah . yeah . grad h : yes , since tcl - tk runs on it , basically things 'll just work . phd d : yeah it yeah , it was just a problem with the snack version and the transcriber version but it 's solved . postdoc a : does and that does that mean , i maybe i should know this but i do n't . does this mean that the that this could be por uh ported to a think - pad note or some other type of uh phd d : yeah , basically uh i did install it on my laptop and yeah postdoc a : wonderful . phd d : it worked . postdoc a : wonderful . professor b : hmm ! good . crosspads ? crosspads ? grad h : uh got an email from uh james landay who basically said `` if you 're not using them , could you return them ? `` so he said he does n't need them , he just periodically w at the end of each term sends out email to everyone who was recorded as having them and asks them if they 're still using them . professor b : so we 've never used them . postdoc a : we used them once . professor b : once ? grad h : we we used them a couple times , postdoc a : mm - hmm . couple times . phd f : them ? there 's more than one ? grad h : but postdoc a : yeah . grad h : yeah , we have two . um . professor b : but grad h : my opinion on it is , first , i never take notes anyway so i 'm not gon na use it , um and second , it 's another level of infrastructure that we have to deal with . postdoc a : and i have uh so my my feeling on it is that i think in principle it 's a really nice idea , and you have the time tags which makes it better tha than just taking ra raw notes . on the other hand , i the down side for me was that i think the pen is really noisy . so you have ka kaplunk , kaplunk , kaplunk . and i and i do n't know if it 's audible on the but i i sort of thought that was a disadvantage . i do take notes , i mean , i could be taking notes on these things and i guess the plus with the crosspads would be the time markings but i do n't know . phd d : uh , what is a crosspad ? professor b : so it 's it 's um it 's a regular pad , just a regular pad of paper but there 's this pen which indicates position . grad c : thank you . professor b : and so you have time and position stuff stored so that you can you have a record of whatever it is you 've written . grad h : and then you can download it and they have ocr and searching and all sorts of things . phd d : ok . ok . grad h : so i if you take notes it 's a great little device . postdoc a : could mm - hmm . grad h : but i do n't take notes , professor b : and one of the reasons that it was brought up originally was because uh we were interested in in higher - level things , not just the , you know , microphone stuff but also summarization and so forth and the question is if you were going to go to some gold standard of what wa what was it that happened in the meeting you know , where would it come from ? and um i think that was one of the things , phd d : yeah . phd g : yeah . professor b : right ? and so the it seemed like a neat idea . we 'll have a you know , have a scribe , have somebody uh take good notes and then that 's part of the record of the meeting . and then we did it once or twice and we sort of grad h : yep , and then just sort of died out . professor b : probably chose the wrong scribe but it was it 's uh phd g : i mean grad h : yeah that 's right . postdoc a : well i did it one time but um professor b : yeah . postdoc a : u but i guess the the other thing i 'm thinking is if we wanted that kind of thing i wonder if we 'd lose that much by having someone be a scribe by listening to the tape , to the recording afterwards and taking notes in some other interface . phd f : i mean we 're transcribing it anyways , why do we need notes ? postdoc a : oh it 's la it 's useful , grad h : because that 's summary . postdoc a : have a summary and high points . professor b : summary . phd g : i think there 's also there 's this use that phd f : summarize it from the transcription . phd g : the well , what if you 're sitting there and you just wan na make an x and you do n't wan na take notes and you 're you just wan na phd f : doodle . phd g : get the summary of the transcript from this time location like you know , and and then while you 're bored you do n't do anything and once in a while , maybe there 's a joke and you put a x and { comment } but in in other words you can use that just to highlight times in a very simple way . also with i was thinking and i know morgan disagrees with me on this but suppose you have a group in here and you wan na let them note whenever they think there might be something later that they might not wan na distribute in terms of content , they could just sort of make an x near that point or a question mark that sort of alerts them that when they get the transcript back they c could get some red flags in that transcript region and they can then look at it . so . i know we have n't been using it but i w i can imagine it being useful just for sort of marking time periods grad h : right . phd g : which you then get back in a transcript postdoc a : well . professor b : i guess so , you know , what what makes one think i is maybe we should actually schedule some periods where people go over something later and and and put some kind of summary or something uh you know , some there 'd be some scribe who would actually listen , w who 'd agreed to actually listen to the whole thing , not transcribe it , but just sort of write down things that struck them as important . but then you do n't you do n't have the time reference uh that you 'd have if you had it live . phd g : right . and you do n't have a lot of other cues that might be useful , professor b : yeah . phd f : how do you synchronize the time in the crosspad and the time of the recording ? grad h : i mean that was one of the issues we talked about originally and that that 's w part of the difficulty is that we need an infrastructure for using the time the crosspads and so that means synchronizing the time postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad h : you know you want it pretty close and there 's a fair amount of skew because it 's a hand - held unit with a battery postdoc a : well when when i d grad h : and so you so you have to synchronize at the beginning of each meeting all the pads that are being used , so that it 's synchronized with the time on that and then you have to download to an application , and then you have to figure out what the data formats are and convert it over if you wan na do anything with this information . postdoc a : w mm - hmm . phd e : why grad h : and so there 's a lot of infrastructure which postdoc a : there is an alternative . grad h : unless someone postdoc a : there is an alternative , i mean , it 's still , there 's uh you know , your point stands about there be needing to be an infrastructure , but it does n't have to be synchronized with the little clock 's timer on it . you c i mean , i when i when i did it i synchronized it by voice , by whispering `` one , two , three , four `` onto the microphone and uh , you know . grad h : well , but then there 's the infrastructure at the other end phd e : right . grad h : which someone has to listen to that and find that point , postdoc a : yeah , it 's transcribed . it 's in the transcript . grad h : and then mark it . postdoc a : yeah . well it 's in the transcript . phd g : well , could we keep one of these things for another year ? would h i mean is there a big cau grad h : we can keep all both of them for the whole whole year . phd g : just just in case we grad h : i mean , it 's just phd g : even maybe some of the transcribers who might be wanting to annotate uh f just there 's a bunch of things that might be neat to do but i it might not be the case that we can actually synchronize them and then do all the infrastructure but we could at least try it out . professor b : well one thing that we might try um is on some set of meetings , some collection of meetings , maybe edu is the right one or maybe something else , we we get somebody to buy into the idea of doing this as part of the task . i mean , phd g : right . professor b : uh part of the reason i think part of the reason that adam was so interested in uh the speechcorder sort of f idea from the beginning is he said from the beginning he hated taking notes and and so forth so and and jane is more into it but eh uh you know i do n't know if you wan na really do do this all the time so i think the thing is to to get someone to actually buy into it and have at least some series of meetings where we do it . um and if so , it 's probably worth having one . the p the the problem with the the more extended view , all these other you know with uh quibbling about particular applications of it is that it looks like it 's hard to get people to um uh routinely use it , i mean it just has n't happened anyway . but maybe if we can get a person to phd g : yeah i do n't think it has to be part of a what everybody does in a meeting but it might be a useful , neat part of the project that we can , you know , show off as a mechanism for synchronizing events in time that happen that you just wan na make a note of , like what jane was talking about with some later browsing , just just as a convenience , even if it 's not a full - blown note taking substitute . phd e : well if you wanted to do that maybe the right architecture for it is to get a pda with a wireless card . and and that way you can synchronize very easily with the the the meeting because you 'll be synchroni you can synchronize with the the linux server and uh phd g : so what kind of input would you be ? phd e : so so , i mean , if you 're not worried about grad h : buttons . phd g : you 'd just be pressing like a a phd e : well well you have a pda and may and you could have the same sort of x interface or whatever , i mean , you 'd have to do a little eh a little bit of coding to do it . phd g : mm - hmm . phd e : but you could imagine , phd g : yeah , that be good . phd e : i mean , if if all you really wanted was you did n't want this secondary note - taking channel but just sort of being able to use m markers of some sort , a pda with a l a wireless card would be the probably the right way to go . i mean even buttons you could do , sort of , i mean , as you said . grad h : i mean for what what you 've been describing buttons would be even more convenient than anything else , phd g : m right . phd e : right . phd g : that would be fine too . grad h : right ? you have the phd g : i mean , i do n't have , you know , grandiose ideas in mind but i 'm just sort of thinking well we 've we 're getting into the next year now and we have a lot of these things worked out at in terms of the speech maybe somebody will be interested in this and postdoc a : i like this pda idea . yeah . professor b : yeah , i do like the idea of having a couple buttons phd g : yeah . grad h : well i 'm sure there would postdoc a : yeah . professor b : where like one one button was `` uh - oh `` and then another button was `` that 's great `` and another button `` that 's f `` phd g : or like this is my `` i 'm supposed to do this `` kind of button , postdoc a : yeah . phd g : like `` i better remember to `` grad h : action item . phd g : yeah something like that or postdoc a : and then grad h : i mean i think the crosspad idea is a good one . postdoc a : uh - huh . grad h : it 's just a question of getting people to use it and getting the infrastructure set up in such a way that it 's not a lot of extra work . i mean that 's part of the reason why it has n't happened is that it 's been a lot of extra work for me phd g : yeah . professor b : right . postdoc a : well , and not just for you . grad h : and postdoc a : but it 's also , it has this problem of having to go from an analog to a d a digital record too , does n't it ? i mean grad h : well it 's digital but it 's in a format that is not particularly standard . postdoc a : but i mean , say , if i if if you 're writing if you 're writing notes in it does it it ca n't do handwriting recognition , right ? professor b : no , no , but it 's just it 's just storing the pixel informa position information , it 's all digital . postdoc a : i i guess what i 'm thinking is that the pda solution you h you have it already without needing to go from the pixelization to a to a i mean professor b : right . you do n't have to phd e : the transfer function is less errorful , postdoc a : oh , nicely put . professor b : yeah . phd g : yeah , yeah . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd g : well it also it 's maybe realistic cuz people are supposed to be bringing their p d as to the meeting eventually , right ? that 's why we have this little i do n't know what i do n't wan na cause more work for anyone but i can imagine some interesting things that you could do with it and so if we do n't have to return it and we can keep it for a year i do n't know . grad h : well w we do n't we certainly do n't have to return it , as i said . all all he said is that if you 're not using it could you return it , if you are using it feel free to keep it . the point is that we have n't used it at all and are we going to ? professor b : so we have no but uh by i i would suggest you return one . because we we you know , we we have n't used it at all . phd g : yeah . professor b : we have some aspirations of using them phd g : one would probably be fine . professor b : and phd g : maybe we could do like a student project , you know , maybe someone who wants to do this as their main like s project for something would be cool . professor b : yeah . grad h : yep . i mean if we had them out and sitting on the table people might use them a little more professor b : maybe jeremy could sit in some meetings and press a button when there when when somebody laughed . grad h : although there is a little phd g : well , i 'm yeah , that 's not a bad professor b : yeah , yeah . yeah . phd g : jeremy 's gon na be an he 's a new student starting on modeling brea breath and laughter , actually , which sounds funny but i think it should be cool , professor b : yeah . grad h : sounds breathy to me . phd g : ok . `` ha - ha - ha . `` grad h : breath and lau `` ha - ha - ha - ha `` . `` ha - ha - ha - ha . `` professor b : well dear . grad h : that reminded me of something . oh well , too late . it slipped out . phd g : you 're you 're gon na tease me ? grad h : oh , equipment . ordered uh , well i 'm always gon na do that . w uh { comment } we ordered uh more wireless , and so they should be coming in at some point . phd g : great . grad h : and then at the same time i 'll probably rewire the room as per jane 's suggestion so that uh the first n channels are wireless , eh are the m the close - talking and the next n are far - field . professor b : you know what he means but is n't that funny sounding ? `` we ordered more wireless . `` it 's like wires are the things so you 're wiring you 're you 're you we 're we ordered more absence of the thing . phd g : that 's a very philosophical statement from morgan . grad h : wired less , wired more . phd g : i just it 's sort of a anachronism , i mean it 's like it 's great . professor b : anyway . grad h : should we do digits ? do we have anything else ? professor b : yeah . i mean there 's there 's all this stuff going on uh between uh andreas and and and dave and chuck and others with various kinds of runs uh um recognition runs , trying to figure things out about the features but it 's it 's all sort of in process , so there 's not much to say right now . uh why do n't we start with our our esteemed guest . phd e : ok . alright . grad h : so just the transcript number and then the then the phd e : this is yes , this is number two for me today . professor b : see all you have to do is go away to move way up in the phd g : we could do simultaneous . initiate him . professor b : we we could . grad h : should we do simultaneous ? phd g : well , i 'm just thinking , are you gon na try to save the data before this next group comes in ? professor b : yeah . grad h : yeah , absolutely . phd g : yeah , so we might wan na do it simultaneous . grad h : i mean you hav sorta have to . professor b : well ok , so let 's do one of those simultaneous ones . phd g : right , so so we might n we might need to do that actually . professor b : that sounds good . everybody ready ? postdoc a : yeah . professor b : a one . phd g : you have to plug your ears , by the way uh eric , grad h : well i have to , phd d : you do n't have to . phd e : ok , alright . phd g : or or you start laughing . grad h : i do n't know about other people . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on xml tools and meeting data quality </s> phd f : start and end of each ? phd d : yeah . grad h : uh utterance . phd f : utterance . just marks ? grad h : so it 's implicit in in there phd f : yeah . grad h : but you have to do a lot of processing to get it . phd f : right . right . grad h : and so and also i 'd like to do the indirect time line business . um but regardless , i mean , w that 's something that you , me , and jane can talk about later . um , but i 've installed xml tools of various sorts in various languages and so if people are interested in doing extracting any information from any of these files , either uh information on users because the user database is that way i 'm converting the key files to xml so that you can extract m uh various inf uh sorted information on individual meetings grad c : cool . phd d : yeah . grad h : and then also the transcripts . and so l just let me know there it 's mostly java and perl but we can get other languages too if if that 's desirable . phd g : oh , quick question on that . is do we have the the seat information ? in in the key files now ? postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad h : the seat information is on the key files for the ones which phd g : oh in for the new one grad h : it 's been recorded , yeah . professor b : seat ? phd g : great . sea - yeah . grad h : where where you 're sitting . professor b : oh ! not not the quality or anything . no . grad h : right . professor b : ok . i see . grad h : `` it 's pretty soft and squishy . `` professor b : yeah . yeah . phd g : alright . grad h : oh , but that might just be me . um . phd g : alright . professor b : that 's more seat information than we wanted . phd g : never mind . i 'm just trying to figure out , you know , when morgan 's voice appears on someone 's microphone are they next to him or are they across from him ? professor b : yeah . grad h : maybe we should bleep that out . professor b : mmm , yeah . phd f : wait a minute , professor b : yeah . phd f : how how w eh where is it in the key file ? grad h : right . the square bracket . phd g : cuz i mean i have n't been putting it in and in by grad h : you have n't been putting it in . phd g : right . postdoc a : well bu phd g : i have not . grad h : oh , ok . postdoc a : is n't it always on the digits ? professor b : some of these are missing . phd g : and professor b : are n't they ? postdoc a : is n't it always on the digits forms ? professor b : some fall out of phd g : well it grad h : yeah so we can go back and fill them in for the ones we have . phd g : i mean they 're on th right , these , but i just had n't ever been putting it in the key files . phd f : yeah i i never phd g : and i do n't think chuck was either phd f : i never knew we were supposed to put it in the key file . phd g : cuz grad h : i had told you guys about it phd f : oh really ? phd g : oh , so we 're both sorry . grad h : but phd g : so grad h : i mean this is why i wan na use a g a tool to do it rather than the plain text because with the plain text it 's very easy to skip those things . so . um if you use the edit - key , or key - edit phd d : edit - key . grad h : i think it 's edit - key , { comment } command did i show you guys that ? phd f : you mentioned it , grad h : i did show it to you , phd f : yeah . yeah . grad h : but i think you both said `` no , you 'll just use text file `` . phd f : text . grad h : um it has it in there , a place to fill it in . yeah , and so if you do n't fill it in , you 're not gon na get it in the meetings . phd g : so if right . well i i just realized i had n't been doing it and probably so grad h : yeah and then the other thing also that thilo noticed is , on the microphone , on channel zero it says hand - held mike or crown mike , phd g : yeah . right . grad h : you actually have to say which one . phd g : i know yeah , i usually delete the phd f : oh ! ok . i did n't do that either . phd g : i do n't , phd d : yeah . phd g : maybe i forgot to d phd f : takes me no time at all to edit these . phd g : but it 's almost yeah . grad h : yeah that 's cuz you kn phd f : i 'm not doing anything . grad h : i i know why . phd g : and i was i was looking at chuck 's , like , `` oh what did chuck do , ok i 'll do that `` . so . grad h : and then uh also in a couple of places instead of filling the participants under `` participants `` they were filled in under `` description `` . professor b : ah , ok . phd g : uh grad h : and so that 's also a problem . so anyway . phd g : we will do better . grad h : that 's it . oh uh also i 'm working on another version of this tool , the the one that shows up here , { comment } that will flash yellow if the mike is n't connected . and it 's not quite ready to go yet because um it 's hard to tell whether the mike 's connected or not because the best quality ones , the crown ones , { comment } are about the same level if they 're off and no one 's o off or if they 're on and no one 's talking . um these these ones , they are much easier , there 's a bigger difference . so i 'm working on that and it it sorta works and so eventually we will change to that and then you 'll be able to see graphically if your mike is dropping in or out . grad c : will that also include like batteries dying ? just a any time the mike 's putting out zeros basically . grad h : yep . yep . yep . phd f : but with the screensaver kicking in , it grad h : now phd d : y yeah . grad c : yeah . phd d : yeah . grad h : well i 'll turn off the screensaver too . grad c : oops . speaking of which . grad h : um the other thing is as i 've said before , it is actually on the thing . there 's a little level meter but of course no one ever pays attention to it . so i think having it on the screen is more easy to notice . postdoc a : it would be nice if if these had little light indicators , little l e ds for grad h : uh buzzer . postdoc a : yeah , a buzzer . grad h : `` bamp , bamp ! `` professor b : small shocks postdoc a : yeah . actually </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on backups and collecting notes with meetings </s> phd g : yeah . grad h : and so if a mistake is made and we lose the backup we should have the archive and if then a mistake is made and we lose the archive we should have the backup . professor b : well i guess it is true that even with something that 's backed up it 's not gon na if it 's stationary it 's not going to go through the increment it 's not gon na burden things in the incremental backups . grad h : just just the monthly full . professor b : yeah , so the monthly full will be a bear but grad h : yeah . but he said that that we sh should n't worry too much about that , that we 're getting a new backup system and we 're far enough away from saturation on full backups that it 's w probably ok . professor b : really ? grad h : and uh , so the only issue here is the timing between getting more disks and uh recording meetings . professor b : so i guess the idea is that we would be reserving the non - backed - up space for things that took less than twenty - four hours to recreate or something like that , right ? grad h : things that are recreatable easily and also yeah , basically things that are recreatable . professor b : yeah . yeah . grad h : the expanded files and things like that . they take up a lot more room anyway . professor b : yeah . grad h : uh but we do need more disk . professor b : so we can get more disk . yeah . so . grad h : yeah . and i i think i agree with him . i mean his point was well taken that if we lose one of these we can not get it back . i do n't think there was any other et cetera there . professor b : well i was allowing someone else to come up with something related that they had uh phd e : i thought you guys were gon na burn c ds ? grad h : um unfortunately we could burn c ds but first of all it 's a pain . phd e : yeah . grad h : because you have to copy it down to the pc and then burn it and that 's a multi - step procedure . and second of all the the write - once burners as opposed to a professional press do n't last . phd e : yeah . grad h : so i think burning them for distribution is fine but burning them for backup is not a good idea . phd e : i see . ok . grad h : cuz th they they fail after a couple years . phd e : alright . postdoc a : i do have uh uh it 's a different topic . can i add one top topic ? we have time ? i wanted to ask , i know that uh that thilo you were , um , bringing the channeltrans interface onto the windows machine ? and i wanted to know is th phd d : yeah it 's it basically it 's done , postdoc a : it 's all done ? that 's g wonderful . great . phd d : yeah . yeah . grad h : yes , since tcl - tk runs on it , basically things 'll just work . phd d : yeah it yeah , it was just a problem with the snack version and the transcriber version but it 's solved . postdoc a : does and that does that mean , i maybe i should know this but i do n't . does this mean that the that this could be por uh ported to a think - pad note or some other type of uh phd d : yeah , basically uh i did install it on my laptop and yeah postdoc a : wonderful . phd d : it worked . postdoc a : wonderful . professor b : hmm ! good . crosspads ? crosspads ? grad h : uh got an email from uh james landay who basically said `` if you 're not using them , could you return them ? `` so he said he does n't need them , he just periodically w at the end of each term sends out email to everyone who was recorded as having them and asks them if they 're still using them . professor b : so we 've never used them . postdoc a : we used them once . professor b : once ? grad h : we we used them a couple times , postdoc a : mm - hmm . couple times . phd f : them ? there 's more than one ? grad h : but postdoc a : yeah . grad h : yeah , we have two . um . professor b : but grad h : my opinion on it is , first , i never take notes anyway so i 'm not gon na use it , um and second , it 's another level of infrastructure that we have to deal with . postdoc a : and i have uh so my my feeling on it is that i think in principle it 's a really nice idea , and you have the time tags which makes it better tha than just taking ra raw notes . on the other hand , i the down side for me was that i think the pen is really noisy . so you have ka kaplunk , kaplunk , kaplunk . and i and i do n't know if it 's audible on the but i i sort of thought that was a disadvantage . i do take notes , i mean , i could be taking notes on these things and i guess the plus with the crosspads would be the time markings but i do n't know . phd d : uh , what is a crosspad ? professor b : so it 's it 's um it 's a regular pad , just a regular pad of paper but there 's this pen which indicates position . grad c : thank you . professor b : and so you have time and position stuff stored so that you can you have a record of whatever it is you 've written . grad h : and then you can download it and they have ocr and searching and all sorts of things . phd d : ok . ok . grad h : so i if you take notes it 's a great little device . postdoc a : could mm - hmm . grad h : but i do n't take notes , professor b : and one of the reasons that it was brought up originally was because uh we were interested in in higher - level things , not just the , you know , microphone stuff but also summarization and so forth and the question is if you were going to go to some gold standard of what wa what was it that happened in the meeting you know , where would it come from ? and um i think that was one of the things , phd d : yeah . phd g : yeah . professor b : right ? and so the it seemed like a neat idea . we 'll have a you know , have a scribe , have somebody uh take good notes and then that 's part of the record of the meeting . and then we did it once or twice and we sort of grad h : yep , and then just sort of died out . professor b : probably chose the wrong scribe but it was it 's uh phd g : i mean grad h : yeah that 's right . postdoc a : well i did it one time but um professor b : yeah . postdoc a : u but i guess the the other thing i 'm thinking is if we wanted that kind of thing i wonder if we 'd lose that much by having someone be a scribe by listening to the tape , to the recording afterwards and taking notes in some other interface . phd f : i mean we 're transcribing it anyways , why do we need notes ? postdoc a : oh it 's la it 's useful , grad h : because that 's summary . postdoc a : have a summary and high points . professor b : summary . phd g : i think there 's also there 's this use that phd f : summarize it from the transcription . phd g : the well , what if you 're sitting there and you just wan na make an x and you do n't wan na take notes and you 're you just wan na phd f : doodle . phd g : get the summary of the transcript from this time location like you know , and and then while you 're bored you do n't do anything and once in a while , maybe there 's a joke and you put a x and { comment } but in in other words you can use that just to highlight times in a very simple way . also with i was thinking and i know morgan disagrees with me on this but suppose you have a group in here and you wan na let them note whenever they think there might be something later that they might not wan na distribute in terms of content , they could just sort of make an x near that point or a question mark that sort of alerts them that when they get the transcript back they c could get some red flags in that transcript region and they can then look at it . so . i know we have n't been using it but i w i can imagine it being useful just for sort of marking time periods grad h : right . phd g : which you then get back in a transcript postdoc a : well . professor b : i guess so , you know , what what makes one think i is maybe we should actually schedule some periods where people go over something later and and and put some kind of summary or something uh you know , some there 'd be some scribe who would actually listen , w who 'd agreed to actually listen to the whole thing , not transcribe it , but just sort of write down things that struck them as important . but then you do n't you do n't have the time reference uh that you 'd have if you had it live . phd g : right . and you do n't have a lot of other cues that might be useful , professor b : yeah . phd f : how do you synchronize the time in the crosspad and the time of the recording ? grad h : i mean that was one of the issues we talked about originally and that that 's w part of the difficulty is that we need an infrastructure for using the time the crosspads and so that means synchronizing the time postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad h : you know you want it pretty close and there 's a fair amount of skew because it 's a hand - held unit with a battery postdoc a : well when when i d grad h : and so you so you have to synchronize at the beginning of each meeting all the pads that are being used , so that it 's synchronized with the time on that and then you have to download to an application , and then you have to figure out what the data formats are and convert it over if you wan na do anything with this information . postdoc a : w mm - hmm . phd e : why grad h : and so there 's a lot of infrastructure which postdoc a : there is an alternative . grad h : unless someone postdoc a : there is an alternative , i mean , it 's still , there 's uh you know , your point stands about there be needing to be an infrastructure , but it does n't have to be synchronized with the little clock 's timer on it . you c i mean , i when i when i did it i synchronized it by voice , by whispering `` one , two , three , four `` onto the microphone and uh , you know . grad h : well , but then there 's the infrastructure at the other end phd e : right . grad h : which someone has to listen to that and find that point , postdoc a : yeah , it 's transcribed . it 's in the transcript . grad h : and then mark it . postdoc a : yeah . well it 's in the transcript . phd g : well , could we keep one of these things for another year ? would h i mean is there a big cau grad h : we can keep all both of them for the whole whole year . phd g : just just in case we grad h : i mean , it 's just phd g : even maybe some of the transcribers who might be wanting to annotate uh f just there 's a bunch of things that might be neat to do but i it might not be the case that we can actually synchronize them and then do all the infrastructure but we could at least try it out . professor b : well one thing that we might try um is on some set of meetings , some collection of meetings , maybe edu is the right one or maybe something else , we we get somebody to buy into the idea of doing this as part of the task . i mean , phd g : right . professor b : uh part of the reason i think part of the reason that adam was so interested in uh the speechcorder sort of f idea from the beginning is he said from the beginning he hated taking notes and and so forth so and and jane is more into it but eh uh you know i do n't know if you wan na really do do this all the time so i think the thing is to to get someone to actually buy into it and have at least some series of meetings where we do it . um and if so , it 's probably worth having one . the p the the problem with the the more extended view , all these other you know with uh quibbling about particular applications of it is that it looks like it 's hard to get people to um uh routinely use it , i mean it just has n't happened anyway . but maybe if we can get a person to phd g : yeah i do n't think it has to be part of a what everybody does in a meeting but it might be a useful , neat part of the project that we can , you know , show off as a mechanism for synchronizing events in time that happen that you just wan na make a note of , like what jane was talking about with some later browsing , just just as a convenience , even if it 's not a full - blown note taking substitute . phd e : well if you wanted to do that maybe the right architecture for it is to get a pda with a wireless card . and and that way you can synchronize very easily with the the the meeting because you 'll be synchroni you can synchronize with the the linux server and uh phd g : so what kind of input would you be ? phd e : so so , i mean , if you 're not worried about grad h : buttons . phd g : you 'd just be pressing like a a phd e : well well you have a pda and may and you could have the same sort of x interface or whatever , i mean , you 'd have to do a little eh a little bit of coding to do it . phd g : mm - hmm . phd e : but you could imagine , phd g : yeah , that be good . phd e : i mean , if if all you really wanted was you did n't want this secondary note - taking channel but just sort of being able to use m markers of some sort , a pda with a l a wireless card would be the probably the right way to go . i mean even buttons you could do , sort of , i mean , as you said . grad h : i mean for what what you 've been describing buttons would be even more convenient than anything else , phd g : m right . phd e : right . phd g : that would be fine too . grad h : right ? you have the phd g : i mean , i do n't have , you know , grandiose ideas in mind but i 'm just sort of thinking well we 've we 're getting into the next year now and we have a lot of these things worked out at in terms of the speech maybe somebody will be interested in this and postdoc a : i like this pda idea . yeah . professor b : yeah , i do like the idea of having a couple buttons phd g : yeah . grad h : well i 'm sure there would postdoc a : yeah . professor b : where like one one button was `` uh - oh `` and then another button was `` that 's great `` and another button `` that 's f `` phd g : or like this is my `` i 'm supposed to do this `` kind of button , postdoc a : yeah . phd g : like `` i better remember to `` grad h : action item . phd g : yeah something like that or postdoc a : and then grad h : i mean i think the crosspad idea is a good one . postdoc a : uh - huh . grad h : it 's just a question of getting people to use it and getting the infrastructure set up in such a way that it 's not a lot of extra work . i mean that 's part of the reason why it has n't happened is that it 's been a lot of extra work for me phd g : yeah . professor b : right . postdoc a : well , and not just for you . grad h : and postdoc a : but it 's also , it has this problem of having to go from an analog to a d a digital record too , does n't it ? i mean grad h : well it 's digital but it 's in a format that is not particularly standard . postdoc a : but i mean , say , if i if if you 're writing if you 're writing notes in it does it it ca n't do handwriting recognition , right ? professor b : no , no , but it 's just it 's just storing the pixel informa position information , it 's all digital . postdoc a : i i guess what i 'm thinking is that the pda solution you h you have it already without needing to go from the pixelization to a to a i mean professor b : right . you do n't have to phd e : the transfer function is less errorful , postdoc a : oh , nicely put . professor b : yeah . phd g : yeah , yeah . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd g : well it also it 's maybe realistic cuz people are supposed to be bringing their p d as to the meeting eventually , right ? that 's why we have this little i do n't know what i do n't wan na cause more work for anyone but i can imagine some interesting things that you could do with it and so if we do n't have to return it and we can keep it for a year i do n't know . grad h : well w we do n't we certainly do n't have to return it , as i said . all all he said is that if you 're not using it could you return it , if you are using it feel free to keep it . the point is that we have n't used it at all and are we going to ? professor b : so we have no but uh by i i would suggest you return one . because we we you know , we we have n't used it at all . phd g : yeah . professor b : we have some aspirations of using them phd g : one would probably be fine . professor b : and phd g : maybe we could do like a student project , you know , maybe someone who wants to do this as their main like s project for something would be cool . professor b : yeah . grad h : yep . i mean if we had them out and sitting on the table people might use them a little more professor b : maybe jeremy could sit in some meetings and press a button when there when when somebody laughed . grad h : although there is a little phd g : well , i 'm yeah , that 's not a bad professor b : yeah , yeah . yeah . phd g : jeremy 's gon na be an he 's a new student starting on modeling brea breath and laughter , actually , which sounds funny but i think it should be cool , professor b : yeah . grad h : sounds breathy to me . phd g : ok . `` ha - ha - ha . `` grad h : breath and lau `` ha - ha - ha - ha `` . `` ha - ha - ha - ha . `` professor b : well dear . grad h : that reminded me of something . oh well , too late . it slipped out . phd g : you 're you 're gon na tease me ? grad h : oh , equipment . ordered uh , well i 'm always gon na do that . w uh { comment } we ordered uh more wireless , and so they should be coming in at some point . phd g : great . grad h : and then at the same time i 'll probably rewire the room as per jane 's suggestion so that uh the first n channels are wireless , eh are the m the close - talking and the next n are far - field . professor b : you know what he means but is n't that funny sounding ? `` we ordered more wireless . `` it 's like wires are the things so you 're wiring you 're you 're you we 're we ordered more absence of the thing . phd g : that 's a very philosophical statement from morgan . grad h : wired less , wired more . phd g : i just it 's sort of a anachronism , i mean it 's like it 's great . professor b : anyway . grad h : should we do digits ? do we have anything else ? professor b : yeah . i mean there 's there 's all this stuff going on uh between uh andreas and and and dave and chuck and others with various kinds of runs uh um recognition runs , trying to figure things out about the features but it 's it 's all sort of in process , so there 's not much to say right now . uh why do n't we start with our our esteemed guest . phd e : ok . alright . grad h : so just the transcript number and then the then the phd e : this is yes , this is number two for me today . professor b : see all you have to do is go away to move way up in the phd g : we could do simultaneous . initiate him . professor b : we we could . grad h : should we do simultaneous ? phd g : well , i 'm just thinking , are you gon na try to save the data before this next group comes in ? professor b : yeah . grad h : yeah , absolutely . phd g : yeah , so we might wan na do it simultaneous . grad h : i mean you hav sorta have to . professor b : well ok , so let 's do one of those simultaneous ones . phd g : right , so so we might n we might need to do that actually . </s>
<s> what did grad h think about using xml tools ? </s> phd f : start and end of each ? phd d : yeah . grad h : uh utterance . phd f : utterance . just marks ? grad h : so it 's implicit in in there phd f : yeah . grad h : but you have to do a lot of processing to get it . phd f : right . right . grad h : and so and also i 'd like to do the indirect time line business . um but regardless , i mean , w that 's something that you , me , and jane can talk about later . um , but i 've installed xml tools of various sorts in various languages and so if people are interested in doing extracting any information from any of these files , either uh information on users because the user database is that way i 'm converting the key files to xml so that you can extract m uh various inf uh sorted information on individual meetings grad c : cool . phd d : yeah . grad h : and then also the transcripts . and so l just let me know there it 's mostly java and perl but we can get other languages too if if that 's desirable . </s>
<s> what did grad g think about meeting data quality ? </s> postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad h : the seat information is on the key files for the ones which phd g : oh in for the new one grad h : it 's been recorded , yeah . professor b : seat ? phd g : great . sea - yeah . grad h : where where you 're sitting . professor b : oh ! not not the quality or anything . no . grad h : right . professor b : ok . i see . grad h : `` it 's pretty soft and squishy . `` professor b : yeah . yeah . phd g : alright . grad h : oh , but that might just be me . um . phd g : alright . professor b : that 's more seat information than we wanted . phd g : never mind . i 'm just trying to figure out , you know , when morgan 's voice appears on someone 's microphone are they next to him or are they across from him ? professor b : yeah . grad h : maybe we should bleep that out . professor b : mmm , yeah . </s>
<s> what did grad g think about collecting notes and related data with meetings ? </s> phd g : get the summary of the transcript from this time location like you know , and and then while you 're bored you do n't do anything and once in a while , maybe there 's a joke and you put a x and { comment } but in in other words you can use that just to highlight times in a very simple way . also with i was thinking and i know morgan disagrees with me on this but suppose you have a group in here and you wan na let them note whenever they think there might be something later that they might not wan na distribute in terms of content , they could just sort of make an x near that point or a question mark that sort of alerts them that when they get the transcript back they c could get some red flags in that transcript region and they can then look at it . so . i know we have n't been using it but i w i can imagine it being useful just for sort of marking time periods grad h : right . phd g : which you then get back in a transcript postdoc a : well . professor b : i guess so , you know , what what makes one think i is maybe we should actually schedule some periods where people go over something later and and and put some kind of summary or something uh you know , some there 'd be some scribe who would actually listen , w who 'd agreed to actually listen to the whole thing , not transcribe it , but just sort of write down things that struck them as important . but then you do n't you do n't have the time reference uh that you 'd have if you had it live . phd g : right . and you do n't have a lot of other cues that might be useful , professor b : yeah . phd f : how do you synchronize the time in the crosspad and the time of the recording ? grad h : i mean that was one of the issues we talked about originally and that that 's w part of the difficulty is that we need an infrastructure for using the time the crosspads and so that means synchronizing the time postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad h : you know you want it pretty close and there 's a fair amount of skew because it 's a hand - held unit with a battery postdoc a : well when when i d grad h : and so you so you have to synchronize at the beginning of each meeting all the pads that are being used , so that it 's synchronized with the time on that and then you have to download to an application , and then you have to figure out what the data formats are and convert it over if you wan na do anything with this information . postdoc a : w mm - hmm . phd e : why grad h : and so there 's a lot of infrastructure which postdoc a : there is an alternative . grad h : unless someone postdoc a : there is an alternative , i mean , it 's still , there 's uh you know , your point stands about there be needing to be an infrastructure , but it does n't have to be synchronized with the little clock 's timer on it . you c i mean , i when i when i did it i synchronized it by voice , by whispering `` one , two , three , four `` onto the microphone and uh , you know . grad h : well , but then there 's the infrastructure at the other end phd e : right . grad h : which someone has to listen to that and find that point , postdoc a : yeah , it 's transcribed . it 's in the transcript . grad h : and then mark it . postdoc a : yeah . well it 's in the transcript . phd g : well , could we keep one of these things for another year ? would h i mean is there a big cau grad h : we can keep all both of them for the whole whole year . phd g : just just in case we grad h : i mean , it 's just phd g : even maybe some of the transcribers who might be wanting to annotate uh f just there 's a bunch of things that might be neat to do but i it might not be the case that we can actually synchronize them and then do all the infrastructure but we could at least try it out . professor b : well one thing that we might try um is on some set of meetings , some collection of meetings , maybe edu is the right one or maybe something else , we we get somebody to buy into the idea of doing this as part of the task . i mean , phd g : right . professor b : uh part of the reason i think part of the reason that adam was so interested in uh the speechcorder sort of f idea from the beginning is he said from the beginning he hated taking notes and and so forth so and and jane is more into it but eh uh you know i do n't know if you wan na really do do this all the time so i think the thing is to to get someone to actually buy into it and have at least some series of meetings where we do it . um and if so , it 's probably worth having one . the p the the problem with the the more extended view , all these other you know with uh quibbling about particular applications of it is that it looks like it 's hard to get people to um uh routinely use it , i mean it just has n't happened anyway . but maybe if we can get a person to phd g : yeah i do n't think it has to be part of a what everybody does in a meeting but it might be a useful , neat part of the project that we can , you know , show off as a mechanism for synchronizing events in time that happen that you just wan na make a note of , like what jane was talking about with some later browsing , just just as a convenience , even if it 's not a full - blown note taking substitute . phd e : well if you wanted to do that maybe the right architecture for it is to get a pda with a wireless card . and and that way you can synchronize very easily with the the the meeting because you 'll be synchroni you can synchronize with the the linux server and uh phd g : so what kind of input would you be ? phd e : so so , i mean , if you 're not worried about grad h : buttons . phd g : you 'd just be pressing like a a phd e : well well you have a pda and may and you could have the same sort of x interface or whatever , i mean , you 'd have to do a little eh a little bit of coding to do it . phd g : mm - hmm . phd e : but you could imagine , phd g : yeah , that be good . phd e : i mean , if if all you really wanted was you did n't want this secondary note - taking channel but just sort of being able to use m markers of some sort , a pda with a l a wireless card would be the probably the right way to go . i mean even buttons you could do , sort of , i mean , as you said . grad h : i mean for what what you 've been describing buttons would be even more convenient than anything else , phd g : m right . phd e : right . phd g : that would be fine too . grad h : right ? you have the phd g : i mean , i do n't have , you know , grandiose ideas in mind but i 'm just sort of thinking well we 've we 're getting into the next year now and we have a lot of these things worked out at in terms of the speech maybe somebody will be interested in this and postdoc a : i like this pda idea . yeah . professor b : yeah , i do like the idea of having a couple buttons phd g : yeah . grad h : well i 'm sure there would postdoc a : yeah . professor b : where like one one button was `` uh - oh `` and then another button was `` that 's great `` and another button `` that 's f `` phd g : or like this is my `` i 'm supposed to do this `` kind of button , postdoc a : yeah . phd g : like `` i better remember to `` grad h : action item . phd g : yeah something like that or postdoc a : and then grad h : i mean i think the crosspad idea is a good one . postdoc a : uh - huh . grad h : it 's just a question of getting people to use it and getting the infrastructure set up in such a way that it 's not a lot of extra work . i mean that 's part of the reason why it has n't happened is that it 's been a lot of extra work for me </s>
<s> what did the postdoc think about collecting notes with meetings ? </s> postdoc a : and i have uh so my my feeling on it is that i think in principle it 's a really nice idea , and you have the time tags which makes it better tha than just taking ra raw notes . on the other hand , i the down side for me was that i think the pen is really noisy . so you have ka kaplunk , kaplunk , kaplunk . and i and i do n't know if it 's audible on the but i i sort of thought that was a disadvantage . i do take notes , i mean , i could be taking notes on these things and i guess the plus with the crosspads would be the time markings but i do n't know . phd d : uh , what is a crosspad ? professor b : so it 's it 's um it 's a regular pad , just a regular pad of paper but there 's this pen which indicates position . grad c : thank you . professor b : and so you have time and position stuff stored so that you can you have a record of whatever it is you 've written . grad h : and then you can download it and they have ocr and searching and all sorts of things . phd d : ok . ok . grad h : so i if you take notes it 's a great little device . postdoc a : could mm - hmm . grad h : but i do n't take notes , professor b : and one of the reasons that it was brought up originally was because uh we were interested in in higher - level things , not just the , you know , microphone stuff but also summarization and so forth and the question is if you were going to go to some gold standard of what wa what was it that happened in the meeting you know , where would it come from ? and um i think that was one of the things , phd d : yeah . phd g : yeah . professor b : right ? and so the it seemed like a neat idea . we 'll have a you know , have a scribe , have somebody uh take good notes and then that 's part of the record of the meeting . and then we did it once or twice and we sort of grad h : yep , and then just sort of died out . professor b : probably chose the wrong scribe but it was it 's uh phd g : i mean grad h : yeah that 's right . postdoc a : well i did it one time but um professor b : yeah . postdoc a : u but i guess the the other thing i 'm thinking is if we wanted that kind of thing i wonder if we 'd lose that much by having someone be a scribe by listening to the tape , to the recording afterwards and taking notes in some other interface . phd f : i mean we 're transcribing it anyways , why do we need notes ? postdoc a : oh it 's la it 's useful , grad h : because that 's summary . postdoc a : have a summary and high points . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> gareth rogers : good morning , and welcome to today 's meeting of the children , young people and education committee . unfortunately , the chair is unable to attend today , so in accordance with standing order 17.22 i call for nominations for a temporary chair for the duration of today 's meeting . julie morgan am : i nominate john griffiths . gareth rogers : thank you . darren millar am : i 'll second that nomination . gareth rogers : as there 's only one nomination , i declare that john griffiths has been appointed as temporary chair . thank you , john . john griffiths am : okay . thank you all very much , and item 1 on our agenda today is introductions , apologies , substitutions and declarations of interest . we 've received apologies from hefin david and lynne neagle . there are no substitutions . are there any declarations of interest ? no . we will move on then to item 2 , and our inquiry into the impact of brexit on higher and further education , and our first evidence session . i 'm very pleased to welcome the higher education funding council for wales here today , and dr david blaney as chief executive , and bethan owen , director of institutional engagement . welcome to you both . thanks for coming along to give evidence today . if it 's okay with you , we 'll move straight to questions , and julie morgan . julie morgan am : good morning . bore da . i wondered if we could start off with you telling us what evidence you can see that the brexit process has had any impact on welsh higher education so far . dr david blaney : can i preface the response by just reminding you that we are , by contract and by role , apolitical , and a lot of the judgments about the impact of brexit essentially reflect where people sit politically in terms of whether they think it 's a good thing or a bad thing ? we 're not going to go there , obviously , today , so we 'll stick to the facts as we can see them , and hopefully we 'll be able to help you , but there are areas where we are unable to help . that 's part of the reason . john griffiths am : we certainly do not expect you to enter the political fray in any way . dr david blaney : thank you . but even in terms of your assessment of whether this is going to be a good thing or a bad thing , a good impact or a bad impact , some of that inevitably in the end becomes a matter of your politics on it , so we will be as careful as we can be on that . in terms of the impact of brexit on higher education , clearly , the significance here is about the contribution that higher education can make to wales . so , we fund provision ; we do n't fund providers , technically , although obviously there 's not much provision without providers . so , we are interested in the sustainability of higher education providers , but fundamentally the issue is : what does the he system in wales do for wales , and what impact might brexit have on the capacity of the system to continue to deliver for wales ? so , we know that universities make annually about £5 billion of impact ; 50,000 jobs . of course , in wales , all of that economic impact is really very significant , and uncertainty about the relationships and the arrangements with europe is one of the most significant issues confronting university management at the moment . that has an impact in a number of ways . we can identify at the moment the extent to which the he sector in wales is exposed to sources of income that are located from the eu , so eu students , structural funds , and eu research funding , and so on , from the eu . we can identify some of that , but , actually , what happens in the future is much harder to be clear about . we are beginning to see some impact in terms of applications from eu students and i 'll ask bethan to share some details on that in a moment . we 're also beginning to pick up , only anecdotally , some signs that there are increasing difficulties in the uk sector , and the welsh sector as part of that , in playing in some of the eu collaborative research activities . and that , i think , just reflects the extent to which eu partners consider that british partners might be a stable partner as we go through this transition period . we do n't have data on that—that 's anecdotal—but there are signs that some of those relationships are beginning to become a little bit more difficult . in terms of the financial impact of that , clearly , if it is accepted that the uk is a net contributor to the eu then , presumably , some of the money—we 're almost immediately straight into politics if you 're not careful—but some of the money will be available back to the uk , and the extent to which wales benefits or not from that returned money is a function of the political relationship between the welsh government and her majesty 's government . it 's not necessarily the case that wales will always lose out in that relationship , but that will become a matter of politics . there 's a broader dimension , which is about the economic impact of brexit on the uk economy and how much tax revenue there is and all of that . i think it 's very hard for us to be definitive about how that 's going to play out . i think that depends on the deal and how it all unfolds over the next several years . but we can certainly anticipate some turbulence and exactly how that plays for institutions remains to be seen . we can touch later on on the extent to which they are sighted on this and preparing for it . so , in terms of recruitment , bethan . bethan owen : this is based on the ucas applications and the report that was published at the end of june , 30 june . the european union-domiciled applicants to wales have decreased by 8 per cent , which contrasts with a 2 per cent increase for english institutions , and non-eu—so international students , not from europe—have also decreased by 9 per cent to welsh institutions , again contrasting with a 7 per cent increase in england . so , those are the signs of changes . john griffiths am : okay . could i then just ask you what you see as the main pressures on the welsh higher education sector at the moment ? bethan owen : the funding position would be the main pressure . the recommendations made by sir ian diamond in his review of higher education funding and student finance are in the process of being implemented , and the changes to the student finance arrangements will take effect from this september . however , the recommendations for re-establishing funding at welsh institutions are expected to take quite a bit longer . that funding , when it returns to institutions , is intended to re-establish funding for higher cost provision , both full time and part time ; reinstate funding for innovation ; and maintain , at the very least , the research funding in real terms . universities , in the meantime , are trying to minimise the cost reductions that they 're making in order to maintain the infrastructure , so that when the funding comes they can get the best value out of it . we have announced our funding allocations for 2018-19 . for the research and teaching grant , though , we are still funding at a lower level—£12.5 million less—then the starting point for the diamond report , the 2015-16 starting report . but we expect to be able to start introducing funding from 2019-20 to make a start on implementing diamond . and it 's probably important to note that the diamond recommendations predated brexit , therefore the challenges introduced by brexit are in addition to those that the diamond report was addressing . the other pressures relate to student recruitment . i mentioned the eu and international students . there is also the start of a reduction , both in welsh-domiciled and english-domiciled applications to wales . enrolments are obviously the key important number , which we 'll see later . and the other pressures include pay and pension costs , not least the issues around the universities superannuation scheme pension fund , where there 's potentially a significant increase in cost . increased student expectations for modern facilities and infrastructure bring a requirement for capital expenditure and borrowing , which bring their own pressures . and finally , the uncertainty about potential consequences that could arise from the review in england of fees and funding—the augar review . john griffiths am : in terms of european union students and enrolment , is wales forecast to do less well than england and , if so , why might that be ? bethan owen : they are not forecasting it . it 's very difficult until the enrolments are made , and it 's also very hard to see—the data that we see is the ucas data . institutions also recruit directly , so until we see the actual recruitment— . i think the arrangements that have changed from 2018-19 also impact on eu students . so , now , they have to find the full fee , whereas previously they were getting the grant in the same way as welsh students . so , i 'm speculating that that might be having an impact as well on eu students ' appetite to come . john griffiths am : okay . first of all llyr , then mark . llyr gruffydd am : well , that 's straight into what i was going to ask , really , about what you think the factors are that led to this 8 per cent or 9 per cent drop in eu students applying to study in wales , where we see a 2 per cent increase in england . is that it , or are there other things that you 've taken into account ? what 's your assessment of the reasons behind this ? dr david blaney : it 's very difficult to be definitive about the reasons , but i think there are probably two . the one that bethan has already indicated , which is the change in student support arrangements for eu students , will have an effect of perturbation . that 's probably relatively temporary—let 's hope it is—as that settles down because , actually , the deal for eu students coming into wales is no worse than that coming into england . ours would be better because the fee level is slightly lower , but we do struggle in wales in terms of the anglocentric nature of the media and so on . so , getting the messages out is a challenge . the other dimension is that when you 're in a highly competitive recruitment market , you have to do what you can to look attractive . part of that is about being able to invest in facilities , and particularly buildings and kit , and the relative levels of investment between wales and england over quite a long period of time now probably have an impact on that . certainly , anecdotally i know , from my own family , that a lot of the choices have been made in terms of the state of repair of campuses and so on . there 's something rational about that , is n't there ? if you 've got a system that is relatively better invested , then you 're likely to have a better student experience because the resources are likely to be better . so , that 's not irrational . we saw a sort of similar but opposite effect when the £9,000 fee maximum limit came in , and some institutions , mostly in england—there was one in wales—chose to pitch their fee levels really quite low , relative to that £9,000 , and caught a cold in the student recruitment market because fee levels denote quality in the student mind . so , the price sensitivities work quite differently . so , again , if you 've got a relatively better invested part of the system , then that might well be one of the reasons why it looks more attractive . llyr gruffydd am : that latter factor would affect the whole of the cohort , not just the international recruitment , of course . dr david blaney : indeed . yes , indeed . the implementation of the diamond recommendations is crucial to that because that 's re-balancing where the policy of investment goes . john griffiths am : okay . and mark . mark reckless am : if i heard you correctly earlier , you said that the applications from non-eu students were also down by 8 per cent or 9 per cent . so , forgive me a certain scepticism about the explanation of the fall in the eu students being that they did get the fee grant and now they do not . if that 's the explanation , why are we seeing the same fall in non-eu applications ? dr david blaney : well , i think the welsh domiciled are also now having to face the prospect of finding a loan for the whole of the fee . so , that would potentially account for that . there 's also a demographic dimension here with the downturn in the 18-year-old school-leaver profile , and that actually is happening in wales at a slightly later point than in england . mark reckless am : but this is non-eu students , and i think you said , bethan , an 8 per cent or 9 per cent fall in them as well . dr david blaney : international non-eu . i beg your pardon . i misunderstood . bethan owen : there 's also a mix effect . i gave a number that was for all english institutions that there will be differential impacts on . mark reckless am : all english or all welsh ? bethan owen : well , i contrasted the welsh position with the english position where they were seeing growth . if you look , then—and we do n't have the detailed information , but , again , what ucas publish is some analysis by tariff . they analyse by type of institution—in other words , the grades that you need to get into institutions—and there is a trend for growth being in the higher tariff institutions . so , there 's a mix effect in there as well , and i think there 's undoubtedly an element of perception of how welcome overseas and international students are , and that 's something that we know the sector are working on with government . mark reckless am : why would that affect wales more than england ? do you think there 's been perhaps too great a negativity about brexit in the sector ? bethan owen : i think it 's the mix of institutions that we have . so , we only have sector information published at the moment . when we look at the mix of institutions that we have , we will probably see a differential impact between cardiff university and others . john griffiths am : okay , mark ? sorry , david , did you want to add anything ? dr david blaney : i was just going to say that we would expect to see quite differential performance in the english sector , so the overall numbers are being brought up by substantial increased performance with some of that sector , and it 's a question of how many of that type of institution you have in wales . mark reckless am : so , performance is increasing amongst the english universities , but not amongst the welsh , you think . dr david blaney : i think performance is increasing , but increasing substantially with some of the english sector , not all of it . so , you get an average for the sector that is increased performance , but actually the stronger players within that sector , with the stronger international profiles , are bringing that up , and we have fewer in wales that have that sort of presence . john griffiths am : okay . darren . darren millar am : would it be fair to say , then , that the universities over the border in england are better at selling themselves internationally than our welsh institutions ? or is it just this fact that we 've got fewer very high tariff universities versus the english market ? dr david blaney : i suspect , and this is speculation—i suspect that it 's a bit of both . i think some of it is to do with the mix of different types of institution . i would then come back to the point i was making about the anglocentric nature of the uk media . if you 're looking overseas , i think wales has to work harder to penetrate the consciousness . darren millar am : but , forgive me , do n't international students just look at the uk as a whole ? how are we comparing to scotland , for example , or northern ireland , in terms of their universities ? do you have a comparative figure for scottish universities ? bethan owen : i have n't got that one with me for now , but there will be one in the data . dr david blaney : yes , we could get that . bethan owen : again , it 's a combination of being part of the uk but differentiating , and the ability to differentiate the strengths of wales , so attracting those students to wales specifically , on top of the uk draw . dr david blaney : so , in terms of the efforts that have been made , there 's a programme now that is being run by the sector in wales—it 's 'study in wales ' . it 's relatively recent ; you could argue that we could have got there earlier . but that is a determined collective effort to present wales as a good place to study , with particular messages about what distinguishes studying in wales from studying more broadly in the uk . in a sense , that is responding to the need to increase the presence of wales in an international market . so , that sort of initiative i think is very good , very welcome . it will take a while to actually have an impact , but i think that 's exactly the sort of work the sector need to be doing more of . mark reckless am : what are those messages on why prospective students should study in wales ? dr david blaney : one of them in particular is relative safety . we know that one of the considerations , particularly for parents of overseas students , is are they going to go to a safe environment , and we know that the perception of international students who study in wales is that this is a comfortable and safe place to be . that 's partly a function of the size of our larger cities—quite a lot smaller than many of the cities in england . so , that 's a key message . being part of a uk system is also an important message there as well . so , we 've got a uk-quality system , a uk degree , and the strength of that brand is available in wales , but it 's available in a way that is safer and more supportive , i think is the messaging that 's coming through . john griffiths am : okay . we 'd better move on , i think , had n't we ? darren , then . darren millar am : i just wonder to what extent you have been able to plan in your financial forecasts for the next few years ahead for the potential impacts of brexit . what have you built in , if anything ? bethan owen : in terms of our funding , we receive our funding annually , but the sector provides us with financial forecasts , and we use those for monitoring sustainability . so , the last full forecasts that we had were in july 2017 . we are due to receive a full forecast at the end of this month , and we obviously have updated information from institutions . darren millar am : and they 're three-year forecasts that come through to you , are n't they ? bethan owen : they are four plus the current year . so , we 've got numbers to 2019-20 at the moment , and expect to go to 2020-21 . darren millar am : and what are the universities expecting ? what do they anticipate ? bethan owen : well , for 2017-18 , which is the year we 're about to end now , they were expecting £38 million income from european students , and approximately £91 million from the various european programme funding sources , and that 's about 8 per cent of the total income—£1.5 billion—of the sector . the forecasts are assuming that that continues , albeit that institutions have various scenarios that they have for all sorts of scenarios that we can all speculate on , and , as i mentioned earlier , the balancing act of maintaining infrastructure and resources and staff in the short term is where we are at the moment , or where the sector is at the moment . and there are also signs that the banks and lending institutions are becoming a bit more risk-averse in providing borrowing to institutions , and of more differentiation between individual institutions being made than has possibly been the case in the past . the sector made an operating deficit , again looking at all welsh institutions collectively last year , 2016-17 , of £17 million . that 's before other gains and losses . and we 're expecting a similar collective level of deficit for this financial year , if not slightly higher . now , these are managed deficits and we are not currently seeing critical short-term cash availability issues in the sector . however , the increase in funding from diamond is a key part of enabling the sector to return to longer-term financial sustainability . short-term challenges can be met if there 's a reasonable prospect of future funding . you can manage in the short-term , but there comes a point when the big cost reductions and infrastructure reductions have to be made . and , again , having mentioned the pressures on pay , pensions and other challenges , it is difficult to gauge whether , if those factors come into play as well , some of these cost reductions may have to be made before funding comes in to replace—either diamond funding or the european replacement funding . darren millar am : so , would it be fair to say that , in terms of the funding arrangements , and , in terms of the student numbers , one reason why we 've got this recruitment problem is this lack of investment in the capital infrastructure that we've seen in recent years because of the financing arrangements from the welsh government , and the fee regime that we had previously , and the student finance regime that we had previously , not getting more cash into our welsh universities perhaps , and that , over the next few years , there 's going to have to be much more significant investment in capital if we 're to raise the game and be more competitive , yes ? bethan owen : yes , that would be fair to say . darren millar am : so , to what extent are they planning for more capital investment in those financial strategies that they 've been preparing and presenting to you ? bethan owen : they are all planning for capital investment . they are in different positions in terms of capacity to borrow and the assumptions . this year , 2018-19 , is the first time that we 've had capital funding in our remit letter—so , we 've got £10 million of capital funding , which is very welcome , with a prospect of a further £20 million . so , that we will be allocating shortly . that will make a difference , particularly to those institutions who are not finding it as easy to borrow from financial institutions . some of our larger institutions have borrowed—cardiff university issued a bond . however , there are internal governance processes that are putting tight restrictions and expectations of what that money will be invested in . but they all have plans to do it and they need the confidence that their forecasts and long-term future funding prospects are secure enough that they can get the confidence of borrowers then , and service the costs of those borrowers . darren millar am : so , the diamond dividend you 've mentioned a few times . what clarity is there from the welsh government at the moment in terms of how much they anticipate the diamond dividend will be , and what proportion of that is going to be released to heis in the future ? bethan owen : i was very carefully not describing it as a dividend—a re-establishing of funding that we had in the past for higher cost and innovation and maintaining research funding . the timescales are difficult , because we have an annual remit letter , and we can work with welsh government officials , and they can only give us a sense of when they think the funding will be released . but 2018-19 is the start of the system , and because of cohort protection—so , protecting those students who came in on a different deal to the deal from 2018-19—in the early years there is an element of double cost ; there 's a cost of seeing out the old system and the different cost of implementing the new system . so , at the moment , we 're certainly not in a position to tell the sector with any degree of certainty what funding would be beyond what we 've allocated for 2018-19 , with some sense of what 2019-20 numbers we 're working with because we allocate our money over an academic year—so , by definition , we 've already made assumptions of four months of the 2019-20 funding , albeit that 's not approved yet in the budgetary process . darren millar am : but you 're not being given a steer at all as to what you expect the additional resource that you might have to make available to welsh universities might be as a result of diamond . you must have some idea . dr david blaney : i think it 's fair to say that officials have been as helpful as they can be with us , in terms of the planning assumptions we make and indications about whether or not we are being too ambitious or not ambitious enough . so , i think they 're being very helpful ; as bethan said , they 're constrained by the process—they ca n't pre-empt a budget process . and you folks will be fully aware of that , of course . the other question i think you asked was how much of the money released by the new arrangements will come into higher education . at the moment , we are expecting all of it to come into higher education , as the product of the arrangement between the current cabinet secretary and the current first minister . the extent to which any changes there cause that to come under threat is something i ca n't judge at the moment . but we have had in our remit letter from the cabinet secretary a clear indication that we can expect our resource to grow over the next few years , as the diamond process unfolds . john griffiths am : okay . i 'm just going to bring in llyr at this stage . llyr gruffydd am : bethan said in an earlier answer that , i think , the financial forecasting from universities forecast something pretty consistent in terms of what they 're hoping to be receiving in income , for example . but we 've already discussed the near 10 per cent drop , potentially , in international applications . so , does that tally , really , or are they going to be recruiting additional students from the uk market or— ? what 's the plan ? bethan owen : i was reflecting on the last point when we had consistent information across the sector . llyr gruffydd am : okay . so , they may need to revisit that in the light of this . bethan owen : i 'm expecting that the forecast that we get at the end of this month will reflect the reduced applications we 've seen , and an element of that will be reflected in reduced improvements as well . llyr gruffydd am : okay . so , we do n't really know , then , whether—it 's unlikely that they are going to expect a consistent fee income , really . dr david blaney : i think it 's fair to say we would expect them to respond to what they 're seeing in the ucas process . even if they did n't , they would all , in any case , have sensitivities for what they would do if things do n't come out in the way they hope . and if they did n't have that then we would be on their case , of course , because we want them to be properly sighted . llyr gruffydd am : okay . thanks . john griffiths am : and we have to stick to the brexit impact . darren . darren millar am : can i just ask , in terms of the impact of brexit , have you done any assessment of what you think might happen , or have any of the institutions made available to you any assessments of what they think is likely to happen to their individual institutions , going forward ? you 've mentioned scenarios earlier on , david , so what scenarios have you set out ? dr david blaney : there 's a welsh government he brexit working group , which is chaired by one of the government directors , and we sit on that . and we have provided that group with early summaries of the risks and the potential impact , in terms of the exposure of the sector to eu-sourced funding . we have , as part of that working group , explored those issues that it would be really very helpful for either the welsh government to try to put in place or for the welsh government to persuade uk government to do . and i think , in our submission , we identified a number of areas of what we would consider to be a helpful action , and that has been worked through that working group . we know that it has informed welsh government 's position , in terms of what it does and also in terms of the conversations that they have with her majesty 's government . beyond that , what we have n't done in that working group is share the work that institutions are doing individually to look at how they would respond to different scenarios . we are not able to do that here either because , inevitably , they would have varying degrees of unpalatability and they would have to be managed very , very carefully . you take cost out , which is essentially the response , you actually take people's jobs out , and all of that has to be managed carefully . so , that 's not really a matter for public consideration , but we do know that the institutions are looking at a range of scenarios on what they would do . bethan mentioned earlier on that the current deficit for the sector is a managed deficit—it 's not something that has taken them by surprise . they are responding to what they see as the dip between where diamond was reporting and where the money starts flowing . similarly , i think we 're comfortable that there is a managed approach to the scenarios that they 're testing within institutions . so , they will do what they need to do to sustain themselves . the bigger issue really , in a public policy context , is the potential damage for the sector to be able to deliver for wales in terms of research and skills development and all the other contributions . darren millar am : so , you 're confident that they 're taking a robust approach to planning for various scenarios , going forward , are you , as individual heis ? dr david blaney : yes , and as the deal becomes more clear politically , then they will obviously have greater clarity in terms of which of these scenarios they need to work up more fully , but they are sighted on it . darren millar am : okay . can i just ask about fee and access plans , and how brexit might impact them ? to what extent do you think that they could be impacted ? dr david blaney : i think there are two dimensions to maybe touch upon there . fee and access plans are approved annually by us . they are approved in advance of the recruitment cycle for the year that they apply to . so , we 're just in the process now of finalising our consideration of fee and access plans for the 2019-20 academic year . so , there 's quite a long lead time . we , as part of that process , go through similar—we look at their financial sustainability , which is based on their forecasts—data to the stuff we 've just been discussing . and also , of course , the fee plans themselves make assumptions about how many students of different types , from different domains , are going to be recruited . so , clearly , if there is a continuing downward pressure on eu student recruitment , then that will reduce the amount of fee income that 's going to come in , unless they can find other students , and that will reduce the amount of investment in the various activities that are identified in the fee plans . in terms of process , we have two things that we can do . if institutions are becoming aware that the basis upon which they 've submitted a fee plan is fundamentally different from the reality , then they can come into us for a change to their fee plan . so , we have a change process . if it 's not fundamentally different , but there are always differences between what you plan and what happens three years later— . we also monitor after the event and , if there are differences , we would then obviously require institutions to explain those differences . if they 've had fewer students and less investment , we would need to understand that . conversely , if they 'd had more students , and potentially more investment , we 'd want to know what they 'd spent it on , and if they 've done different things , we 'd want to understand that as well . so , we do challenge through a monitoring process . the only other thing that 's perhaps worth saying is that , in the 2019-20 fee and access plans—they 're not published yet , so i ca n't give you the full detail—five universities have made reference to brexit and the brexit impact , and things they want to do through their fee and access plan to try and address some of those issues , so they 're in there as well . darren millar am : but we 've already said , have n't we , that it may be nothing to do with brexit , this dip in eu recruitment , because there are other factors like the attractiveness of the estates and the environment that young people might be educated in ? but they 're making assumptions that it 's linked to brexit , are they ? dr david blaney : not really . i think they 're making assumptions that it could be . there are things they want to do to enhance and to protect student mobility , and some of that will be funded through fee plan investment . so , the brexit conversation between the eu and the uk government might or might not sustain erasmus engagement , and if it does n't , then they need to find other ways of trying to support that sort of thing . so , that 's what we 're beginning to see in the fee plans . it 's them thinking about how else we can do this stuff . john griffiths am : okay , darren ? mark . mark reckless am : you mentioned the fee and access report . what else do you do to assure yourselves that welsh higher education institutions are effectively planning for brexit ? bethan owen : we 've touched on contingency plans , but , in an environment of uncertainty , i think it 's difficult for any of us to know what the right scenario is . i think rather than looking at worst-case scenarios , what the sector is also focusing on is the promotion and looking for additional or increased sources of funding . so , we touched on strengthening the global wales engagement in order to sell wales , so more focus on marketing wales overseas , but also within the uk . the other area where the sector is working at a uk level very hard is making the arguments to uk government for maintaining access to the successor to horizon 2020 , which is arguably a larger part of the whole funding infrastructure—students is one part , but the whole funding infrastructure for maintaining research capacity . so , working with uk universities to make arguments at uk government level for maintaining access to those sources of funding is also a part of what the institutions are doing . we mentioned the welsh government 's he brexit group . that group , which is the welsh government group , is being advised by members on it , and that 's informing welsh government officials when they engage with uk government as well . mark reckless am : do universities seek your advice on what the risks and , indeed , opportunities of brexit may be and what you think they should be doing to plan for them , or is your role more one of monitoring what they do as opposed to advising what they should do ? bethan owen : they are autonomous institutions and ultimately their governing bodies are responsible for ensuring their sustainability . it 's not a relationship where we would advise and direct , but it is a relationship where we would question the scenarios if we consider from our experience that we would have expected other scenarios to have been tested . it 's that nature of conversation , rather than directing . mark reckless am : i understand you do n't direct , of course , but my question was about advising . you 're overseeing , or monitoring—or whatever you like to describe the role as—quite a number of institutions , and presumably you therefore have particular expertise within your organisation , and i just wondered whether higher education institutions are doing enough to draw on that . bethan owen : i think we can advise—we can advise based on data and information that we can see . we can advise based on our judgment . the big thing in this whole brexit scenario is the uncertainty and the extent to which our speculation is better informed than the governing bodies or the sector collectively is probably the issue . dr david blaney : i think that 's right . so , there 's a relationship with the sector and there 's a relationship with individual institutions , and they are different . so , we have engagement collectively with the sector . bethan meets with the finance directors , and i meet with the vice-chancellors . we actually have the sector and the funding council together on the welsh government 's group . so , some of these conversations are happening in various ways , where we 're all gaining intelligence about what might be a sensible set of planning assumptions . then , if we see an institution that is manifestly giving signs of not being sighted on some of these risks , either through their forecast or through other assurance activity , we will challenge . we have an annual cycle , with two points in the year where we reassess the overall risks of individual institutions , and that 's based on a whole range of hard data but also a range of soft data . our links into institutions are many and varied . we have lots of conversations and we take all of that in the round and form an assessment about the financial sustainability of the institutions but also the extent to which we think their governance and management arrangements are properly sighted and facing properly the challenges that they face . in some ways , we say it 's not about the challenges they face ; it 's about how they face the challenges . our alarm bells really ring when we get the sense that , actually , either an executive or a governing body has n't really noticed . we're not in that place , i 'm really pleased to say . i 'm not worried about short-term crisis with any of the institutions . there are medium-term real challenges , both because of brexit and because of other contextual factors , but at the moment the sector is a managed sector , which is good . it 's not always like that , but we 're in , i think , a good place at the moment . so , our role is definitely to challenge where we do n't think they are making sensible assessments , but it 's not to say that their assessment is wrong and ours is right ; it 's just to have a conversation about , 'why have you done this and what has informed your thinking ? ' it 's slightly more one step back and slightly more subtle , but it is , as you imply , us using the intelligence we gain from all of those conversations when we talk to individual institutions as well . john griffiths am : okay . llyr . llyr gruffydd am : yes , thank you . we had evidence last week from some of the higher education institutions , including cardiff university , and it 's very interesting , in relation to erasmus+ and the mobility funding for students that , i think , only 40 per cent of the mobility funding in cardiff is paid for by erasmus+ . i note that you 've been consulting on national measures for higher education performance and that one possibility is using international mobility as a performance indicator . i was just wondering whether you might go further and expect universities to actually make commitments to funding international mobility from their own fee incomes as part of that . bethan owen : again , reflecting on the latest fee and access plans , seven of the universities are referring to mobility—either they have targets in them or are explaining what their plans are—so they are including an element of it from their own income and fee and access income . however , erasmus is such a well-established and long-term plan—if we were looking at a scenario where that infrastructure was n't available , to implement anything similar to that would be much less efficient and much more costly . and to enable an infrastructure that allowed— . ideally , you 'd want something that all welsh institutions could take part in , and that takes some investment and some co-ordinating . and , equally , you need to have the arrangements with your overseas and european institutions . i think it 's easy to underestimate the accumulation of time that has gone into establishing erasmus . so , i think replacing it would be a challenge . llyr gruffydd am : and the point was made clearly last week that the brand is internationally recognised . when you enter into erasmus+ , you know exactly what you 're going to get , and all of that . but there have been criticisms as well about degrees of flexibility and this , that and the other , so i 'm just wondering whether—and there is presumably going to be some change on that front although i 'm hoping we can buy into it , as others have done who are n't in the eu—that emphasis on encouraging institutions to look more proactively at funding their own mobility efforts would be positive . dr david blaney : i think the— llyr gruffydd am : sorry—especially if it means that they do more of it . dr david blaney : indeed . i think the welsh sector is definitely committed to trying to find ways of promoting and resourcing that sort of mobility . there are signs that some of the restrictive elements of the erasmus programme are going to change anyway , because that 's under development and that 's positive . there have been positive noises as part of the brexit negotiations about wanting to carry on being able to access the erasmus programme . nothing is agreed until it 's all agreed apparently , so we 'll have to see on that one . that would be far better , i think , as bethan indicates , than trying to replace it with a made-in-wales only , but you could have a made-in-wales on top . all of these challenges also create opportunities because they stimulate thinking , and so the fact that seven of the eight universities are already now using their fee plans as a vehicle for thinking about this is positive , and i think we can take that on from there . llyr gruffydd am : because that 40/60 split struck me as being the opposite to what i perceived the situation to be . a key part of your role is to work in partnership with students , so i 'd just like to ask what work have you done with students , in terms of maybe protecting their interests as the brexit scenario evolves ? dr david blaney : well , as you say , we do work with students . we were the first of the funding councils in the uk to have a memorandum of understanding with the national union of students in wales . we work very closely with them and the president of nus is an observer on our council . so , we have close links with nus wales and we 're very proud of that , and it 's very productive . they do n't have a vote , but they do have a voice and it really matters . we we 're , again , ahead of the rest of the uk in requiring all he providers to have student charters and there are elements of student protection within the student charter . the uk-wide quality code also has elements in it where arrangements have to be specified about the protection of student interests . that is particularly , in essence , around circumstances where a provider gets into difficulties and they might wish to close a course or something more drastic and then what arrangements are in place to make sure that those students who are in train are protected . so , that is there and we 've worked hard with the sector and with nus wales to get those measures in place . there 's more development work in train at the moment , so we 've asked universities wales to construct a protection that takes account of the approach to protecting the student interests in higher education . we 're also requiring further education institutions who are regulated and deliver higher education to do similar or the same , and that 's very important . the students who are he students in fe are absolutely not second-best , and they should have the same protections . llyr gruffydd am : but is all this a general piece of work ? it 's not brexit-specific , although , no doubt , it may— . dr david blaney : i think that 's fair to say , yes . the other dimension around brexit is the immigration status of eu students , and that 's , kind of , beyond our pay scale—that 's a uk government issue . llyr gruffydd am : is that something that you have a view on ? dr david blaney : it 's clearly in the interest of the enrichment of the curriculum and the student experience for students in welsh institutions to be able to have students from other eu countries in the mix . so , it would be nice to find ways of continuing to facilitate that . llyr gruffydd am : okay . now , of course , you have a statutory duty as well to assess the academic quality of the work in our higher education institutions , and i'm just wondering what potential impacts you think that brexit might have on that particular aspect . dr david blaney : i think there are possibly a couple of things to say , and one , in a sense , echoes what i was just saying in the final part of my previous response , which is that part of the quality of the student experience is the richness that you get from having students in your cohort who have different backgrounds and different perspectives . so , if there is a continuing reduction in the number of eu students coming into welsh institutions , then that richness deteriorates . that doesn't mean to say that the base or the threshold standard of what 's required for a degree will come under pressure , it 's just about the richness on top of that , which will be , in a sense , a quality-enhancement issue . that would be something that we would wish to try to protect against , but in the end you ca n't force eu students to come—you have to try and look attractive , and we 've touched on that . the baseline requirement assessment of quality will not be affected by brexit , except in so far as the machinery we use to discharge our statutory responsibility , which is through the quality assurance agency , which themselves are accredited with european association for quality assurance in higher education , the european machinery for higher education quality . and there 's a set of standards around that , and we would obviously wish not to be in a position where our ability to use and adhere to those standards is adversely impacted upon . those standards will still exist , and it will be possible for the british system to adhere to them , even if they 're not actually able to play in the same way . then the only other thing i would say is that one of the factors that can cause the quality of the learning and teaching experience to be likely to become inadequate is when institutions come under financial pressure , just because their capacity to maintain the same sort of student experience can get under pressure . so , clearly , we will be looking for and making sure that institutions manage the financial pressures , if there are any—and there are some at the moment , as we 've described—and manage those carefully . and in all of that , we will expect institutions to do their duty to make sure that the commitments they 've already made to students are carried through . so , where students have already started on the course , they need to be able to finish that course—you ca n't just pull the plug out . so , all of that comes into the arrangements for quality as well . so , we 'll be keeping an eye on that . llyr gruffydd am : okay . a lot of what you 've told us in the last three quarters of an hour or so will have costs attached , depending on the impacts . certainly , we 're in choppy waters as a sector anyway , and the risk is that things will be even more choppy , if you 'll excuse that level of political interpretation , over the years to come . i 'm just wondering what advice you might have given the welsh government in terms of what level of transition funding , or brexit transition funding , might be required by the sector , and if you have , what the welsh government might have told you . bethan owen : i mentioned earlier that , obviously , we 've provided information in terms of the assumptions that the sector are making on income . so , for the year 2017-18 , that was £129 million . i think the extent to which that needs to be replaced or supported with transition funding depends absolutely on what the final arrangements for brexit are , but it 's an appropriate point to refer to the report that professor graeme reid has produced , commissioned by welsh government . that was , and has , provided advice and recommendations for supporting research and innovation in the transition period . but , again , the reid recommendations in that report build on the diamond recommendations , and as soon as diamond is in place—and reid is providing recommendations in addition , to establish funding on the basis that the funding needs to be available in wales to maintain and develop and strengthen the research and innovation infrastructure that we have . llyr gruffydd am : are you not worried , though , that the clock is ticking and that we really do n't know what the situation is at this point ? dr david blaney : do you mean the brexit situation ? llyr gruffydd am : the brexit clock , yes . dr david blaney : uncertainty is unhelpful , because as i 've said several times , the sector is a managed sector at the moment . i do n't think there's— . we 're not seeing maverick stuff , but actually you can only manage , really , what you can see and what you can reasonably predict . so , the longer the uncertainty persists , the more difficult that is for institutional management and , indeed , for the rest of the machinery to support them . so , yes , the sooner we get clarity , the better for everybody , i imagine . darren millar am : chair , can i just ask a question ? john griffiths am : yes , darren . darren millar am : in terms of uncertainty , though , we 've still got this uncertainty over whether the extra cash that the government 's going to have to spend as a result of diamond being implemented is coming to the he sector . they 've given a political commitment , but you 've got absolutely no other assurance of the sums of money that are coming in . we 've got the reform of tertiary education arrangements in wales , which are also under way , so it 's a bit of a perfect storm for you , is n't it , really , with all of these three things happening at the same time ? dr david blaney : we 're certainly kept busy . darren millar am : but two of those things are in the gift of the welsh government to sort out for you , are n't they ? dr david blaney : well , the policy on the reform of the post-compulsory sector absolutely is a welsh government policy . the extent to which they can pre-empt a budgetary process and give us clear sight of the amount of money in future years is— . well , again , it 's not for me to comment . my understanding is that that 's difficult for them to do , and i would repeat what i said earlier : officials have been as helpful as i think they can be in respect of that . i mean , you 're right , we 've only got a political commitment between two people currently in post . it would be great to have that firmer . i 'm not sure how that could be done . darren millar am : i mean , that statement about the savings accrued from diamond being reinvested wholly into the he sector has not been repeated , frankly , has it , since the coalition deal was struck ? dr david blaney : no , but it has n't been rescinded either , so— . darren millar am : no , but there have been opportunities—repeated opportunities—in the chamber , where the cabinet secretary 's been asked to repeat that commitment , and the first minister's been asked to repeat that commitment and has not given that commitment . that must concern you , and must concern your university sector even more than , perhaps , some of the elements of brexit that we 're discussing . dr david blaney : bethan has outlined earlier on in this session the fact that institutions are currently running deficit budgets in order not to lose the infrastructure on the assumption that the diamond money will come in . if anything were to cause significant perturbation , either to the timeline of that or to it coming in at all , then there would be much more of what medwin hughes calls 'houskeeping ' that would be required , and that would be significant . so , at the moment—i do n't like the expression 'valley of death ' , but there is a valley to cross , and i think the sector is reasonably confident about how wide and how deep that valley is . there 's a demographic valley as well . so , there are several valleys that they 're crossing—the metaphor fails , does n't it , really , but i think you get the drift ? so , there are a number of challenges and they can see their way out of some of those challenges , but if any one of these starts to get significantly disrupted , then that would be a real issue for them . john griffiths am : okay . could i go on to ask about other barriers to welsh universities gaining more funding from uk research councils ? what would you say those barriers are ? dr david blaney : well , i think there are a couple of things , really , to say . the first one—and we 'll sound like a stuck record if we 're not careful—is that there 's an issue about investment and the reid report makes this very clear . so , he has reaffirmed research that had been done previously that identifies that , actually , the quality of the research base in welsh universities and the productivity of that welsh research base are both good , there 's just not enough of them , and that , in the end , is a product of investment decisions . they have particularly looked at the deficit in science , technology , engineering and mathematics areas , and i always say that research is not just stem . i mean , stem is important , and i 'm not denying the deficit in that area , but we have to also remember that the research agenda for wales is not just stem—it 's arts , humanities , it 's social sciences . if you look at the impact on public policy that could come from social science research—tremendous . and we 're very good at it in wales . the welsh impact in its research is better than anywhere else in the uk , so that 's good . so , they do very well , and we just really need to invest a little bit further—so continue to do very well , but put it on a broader front . if you want to be able to play into the uk-wide research funding , then the investment has two dimensions to it . one is just having enough researchers to be able to play into those increasingly larger projects rather than small-scale projects . if you have n't got the critical mass , it 's very hard to make the case that you can play . and the second thing is that uk-wide research pots nearly always fund at about 80 per cent of the total cost of the research , and the other 20 per cent is meant to be found from the core research funding for the university , and if you 're in a situation where your core research funding is not competitive , then you 're not going to be competitive at getting that money . so , that 's , kind of , straightforward . there are other things . i think it 's fair to say that the welsh sector has not been sufficiently focused on getting in on the conversations with the research councils , making sure they 're in the various committees and so on . we are intending to do a bit of work to see if we can systematise that a bit better—that engagement—because there 's no doubt about it : it 's not to say that this system is in any way inappropriate , but the more you 're in the conversations , the more likely you are to be better placed to respond to the research challenges that come up . john griffiths am : okay . one final question : in terms of the researcher collaborations and networks that exist , do you see potential difficulties after brexit for the continuation and enhancement of those , and are there any particular lessons to learn from sêr cymru ii ? dr david blaney : i think that there are two things to say here as well . first of all , the brexit deal might or might not impact adversely on the capacity of welsh and , indeed , uk research infrastructure to play into broader collaborative activity across europe , and , in a sense , that 's a function of the deal whatever the deal looks like , and we 'll have to wait and see . but we 've mentioned playing into horizon europe , and being able to continue with that would be an important part of that capacity . it 's not just the money , it 's being in the club and it 's the signalling that we 're in the game . so , all of that would be important . and then the other part of my response to this would be that , actually , wales will need to continue to be good at the research it does , so maintaining the quality , maintaining the impact , and hopefully growing the critical mass . the sêr cymru initiative has been quite important in doing that , because it 's been very focused , capturing key research players , and the attractiveness that that has then to other researchers around them , and to industry collaboration , and they have been areas of real strength that we 've invested in . and i think they are already showing dividends in terms of the capacity to win more research funding , and to establish an even stronger presence in the international research market . john griffiths am : okay . just one further point , from darren . darren millar am : just very briefly , one of the pieces of feedback that the committee members received at a stakeholder engagement event , which took place prior to this inquiry starting , to receive oral evidence , was about the research funding that is available from the charitable sector , and how poorly wales does in attracting some of that research . i think we had some figures from the british heart foundation , which said they have £100 million a year available for research grants , or something like that , and we 're getting 1 per cent of that coming into wales , which is obviously pretty low down . i appreciate that research into the type of activity that they want to put their money into , wales may not be particularly good at , and there may be other opportunities with other charities and partnerships . what work are you doing in order to build the capacity that wales has to attract more of that charitable sector research funding into wales ? bethan owen : one of the issues is the capacity to engage with that funding , because of the overhead issue that david mentioned . charitable funding at the moment does n't attract any overhead funding . again , that could be built in to our funding , if we had the capacity to increase our quality-related research funding . there is an element in england . darren millar am : but that pressure 's the same in other parts of the uk , is it not ? so the overhead funding is still an issue in england , and in other places . bethan owen : there is an increased contribution , and i think it 's an element that was increased this year to acknowledge that . but there will be differentiation between different charities . i 'm fairly certain that some of our institutions will be very strong with the cancer charities , possibly not the heart foundation . and some of that will reflect on focusing on our strengths , but to have that fuller picture . darren millar am : so , this gearing issue that you mentioned earlier on , for every £1 that somebody else puts on the table , they can draw in another £4 on top , because that £1 will cover the overheads , whereas the rest of the research cash— . dr david blaney : that 's exactly it . so , the more you 're able to invest— . you know , we sometimes get into a conversation about the unhypothecated nature of our research funding , but actually that creates a flexibility and the infrastructure investment that allows institutions to be able to respond to these other opportunities . without that , they ca n't do it , because if you 're not careful , you 've got institutions engaging in uk-wide or charity-based research activities where they 're actually having to pay for it themselves—they 're running at a loss . darren millar am : so that 's the main problem ; it 's not that welsh universities are n't doing their best to get this cash in . or is it a bit of both ? dr david blaney : i think , in the main , universities and researchers will get their cash from wherever they can , so i do n't think it 's a lack of appetite . </s>
<s> what did dr. david blaney think of the impact of brexit on the capacity of wales ' higher education system ? </s> john griffiths am : we certainly do not expect you to enter the political fray in any way . dr david blaney : thank you . but even in terms of your assessment of whether this is going to be a good thing or a bad thing , a good impact or a bad impact , some of that inevitably in the end becomes a matter of your politics on it , so we will be as careful as we can be on that . in terms of the impact of brexit on higher education , clearly , the significance here is about the contribution that higher education can make to wales . so , we fund provision ; we do n't fund providers , technically , although obviously there 's not much provision without providers . so , we are interested in the sustainability of higher education providers , but fundamentally the issue is : what does the he system in wales do for wales , and what impact might brexit have on the capacity of the system to continue to deliver for wales ? so , we know that universities make annually about £5 billion of impact ; 50,000 jobs . of course , in wales , all of that economic impact is really very significant , and uncertainty about the relationships and the arrangements with europe is one of the most significant issues confronting university management at the moment . that has an impact in a number of ways . we can identify at the moment the extent to which the he sector in wales is exposed to sources of income that are located from the eu , so eu students , structural funds , and eu research funding , and so on , from the eu . we can identify some of that , but , actually , what happens in the future is much harder to be clear about . we are beginning to see some impact in terms of applications from eu students and i 'll ask bethan to share some details on that in a moment . we 're also beginning to pick up , only anecdotally , some signs that there are increasing difficulties in the uk sector , and the welsh sector as part of that , in playing in some of the eu collaborative research activities . and that , i think , just reflects the extent to which eu partners consider that british partners might be a stable partner as we go through this transition period . we do n't have data on that—that 's anecdotal—but there are signs that some of those relationships are beginning to become a little bit more difficult . in terms of the financial impact of that , clearly , if it is accepted that the uk is a net contributor to the eu then , presumably , some of the money—we 're almost immediately straight into politics if you 're not careful—but some of the money will be available back to the uk , and the extent to which wales benefits or not from that returned money is a function of the political relationship between the welsh government and her majesty 's government . it 's not necessarily the case that wales will always lose out in that relationship , but that will become a matter of politics . there 's a broader dimension , which is about the economic impact of brexit on the uk economy and how much tax revenue there is and all of that . i think it 's very hard for us to be definitive about how that 's going to play out . i think that depends on the deal and how it all unfolds over the next several years . but we can certainly anticipate some turbulence and exactly how that plays for institutions remains to be seen . we can touch later on on the extent to which they are sighted on this and preparing for it . so , in terms of recruitment , bethan . </s>
<s> summarize the main pressures on the welsh higher education sector at the moment . </s> john griffiths am : okay . could i then just ask you what you see as the main pressures on the welsh higher education sector at the moment ? bethan owen : the funding position would be the main pressure . the recommendations made by sir ian diamond in his review of higher education funding and student finance are in the process of being implemented , and the changes to the student finance arrangements will take effect from this september . however , the recommendations for re-establishing funding at welsh institutions are expected to take quite a bit longer . that funding , when it returns to institutions , is intended to re-establish funding for higher cost provision , both full time and part time ; reinstate funding for innovation ; and maintain , at the very least , the research funding in real terms . universities , in the meantime , are trying to minimise the cost reductions that they 're making in order to maintain the infrastructure , so that when the funding comes they can get the best value out of it . we have announced our funding allocations for 2018-19 . for the research and teaching grant , though , we are still funding at a lower level—£12.5 million less—then the starting point for the diamond report , the 2015-16 starting report . but we expect to be able to start introducing funding from 2019-20 to make a start on implementing diamond . and it 's probably important to note that the diamond recommendations predated brexit , therefore the challenges introduced by brexit are in addition to those that the diamond report was addressing . the other pressures relate to student recruitment . i mentioned the eu and international students . there is also the start of a reduction , both in welsh-domiciled and english-domiciled applications to wales . enrolments are obviously the key important number , which we 'll see later . and the other pressures include pay and pension costs , not least the issues around the universities superannuation scheme pension fund , where there 's potentially a significant increase in cost . increased student expectations for modern facilities and infrastructure bring a requirement for capital expenditure and borrowing , which bring their own pressures . and finally , the uncertainty about potential consequences that could arise from the review in england of fees and funding—the augar review . john griffiths am : in terms of european union students and enrolment , is wales forecast to do less well than england and , if so , why might that be ? bethan owen : they are not forecasting it . it 's very difficult until the enrolments are made , and it 's also very hard to see—the data that we see is the ucas data . institutions also recruit directly , so until we see the actual recruitment— . i think the arrangements that have changed from 2018-19 also impact on eu students . so , now , they have to find the full fee , whereas previously they were getting the grant in the same way as welsh students . so , i 'm speculating that that might be having an impact as well on eu students ' appetite to come . </s>
<s> according to dr. blaney , what are the reasons for the drop in eu students applying to study in wales ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : well , that 's straight into what i was going to ask , really , about what you think the factors are that led to this 8 per cent or 9 per cent drop in eu students applying to study in wales , where we see a 2 per cent increase in england . is that it , or are there other things that you 've taken into account ? what 's your assessment of the reasons behind this ? dr david blaney : it 's very difficult to be definitive about the reasons , but i think there are probably two . the one that bethan has already indicated , which is the change in student support arrangements for eu students , will have an effect of perturbation . that 's probably relatively temporary—let 's hope it is—as that settles down because , actually , the deal for eu students coming into wales is no worse than that coming into england . ours would be better because the fee level is slightly lower , but we do struggle in wales in terms of the anglocentric nature of the media and so on . so , getting the messages out is a challenge . the other dimension is that when you 're in a highly competitive recruitment market , you have to do what you can to look attractive . part of that is about being able to invest in facilities , and particularly buildings and kit , and the relative levels of investment between wales and england over quite a long period of time now probably have an impact on that . certainly , anecdotally i know , from my own family , that a lot of the choices have been made in terms of the state of repair of campuses and so on . there 's something rational about that , is n't there ? if you 've got a system that is relatively better invested , then you 're likely to have a better student experience because the resources are likely to be better . so , that 's not irrational . we saw a sort of similar but opposite effect when the £9,000 fee maximum limit came in , and some institutions , mostly in england—there was one in wales—chose to pitch their fee levels really quite low , relative to that £9,000 , and caught a cold in the student recruitment market because fee levels denote quality in the student mind . so , the price sensitivities work quite differently . so , again , if you 've got a relatively better invested part of the system , then that might well be one of the reasons why it looks more attractive . llyr gruffydd am : that latter factor would affect the whole of the cohort , not just the international recruitment , of course . dr david blaney : indeed . yes , indeed . the implementation of the diamond recommendations is crucial to that because that 's re-balancing where the policy of investment goes . </s>
<s> what does dr. blaney think of the reasons why prospective students should study in wales ? </s> mark reckless am : what are those messages on why prospective students should study in wales ? dr david blaney : one of them in particular is relative safety . we know that one of the considerations , particularly for parents of overseas students , is are they going to go to a safe environment , and we know that the perception of international students who study in wales is that this is a comfortable and safe place to be . that 's partly a function of the size of our larger cities—quite a lot smaller than many of the cities in england . so , that 's a key message . being part of a uk system is also an important message there as well . so , we 've got a uk-quality system , a uk degree , and the strength of that brand is available in wales , but it 's available in a way that is safer and more supportive , i think is the messaging that 's coming through . </s>
<s> summarize the efforts of assessments on the future of the institutions . </s> darren millar am : can i just ask , in terms of the impact of brexit , have you done any assessment of what you think might happen , or have any of the institutions made available to you any assessments of what they think is likely to happen to their individual institutions , going forward ? you 've mentioned scenarios earlier on , david , so what scenarios have you set out ? dr david blaney : there 's a welsh government he brexit working group , which is chaired by one of the government directors , and we sit on that . and we have provided that group with early summaries of the risks and the potential impact , in terms of the exposure of the sector to eu-sourced funding . we have , as part of that working group , explored those issues that it would be really very helpful for either the welsh government to try to put in place or for the welsh government to persuade uk government to do . and i think , in our submission , we identified a number of areas of what we would consider to be a helpful action , and that has been worked through that working group . we know that it has informed welsh government 's position , in terms of what it does and also in terms of the conversations that they have with her majesty 's government . beyond that , what we have n't done in that working group is share the work that institutions are doing individually to look at how they would respond to different scenarios . we are not able to do that here either because , inevitably , they would have varying degrees of unpalatability and they would have to be managed very , very carefully . you take cost out , which is essentially the response , you actually take people's jobs out , and all of that has to be managed carefully . so , that 's not really a matter for public consideration , but we do know that the institutions are looking at a range of scenarios on what they would do . bethan mentioned earlier on that the current deficit for the sector is a managed deficit—it 's not something that has taken them by surprise . they are responding to what they see as the dip between where diamond was reporting and where the money starts flowing . similarly , i think we 're comfortable that there is a managed approach to the scenarios that they 're testing within institutions . so , they will do what they need to do to sustain themselves . the bigger issue really , in a public policy context , is the potential damage for the sector to be able to deliver for wales in terms of research and skills development and all the other contributions . darren millar am : so , you 're confident that they 're taking a robust approach to planning for various scenarios , going forward , are you , as individual heis ? dr david blaney : yes , and as the deal becomes more clear politically , then they will obviously have greater clarity in terms of which of these scenarios they need to work up more fully , but they are sighted on it . darren millar am : okay . can i just ask about fee and access plans , and how brexit might impact them ? to what extent do you think that they could be impacted ? dr david blaney : i think there are two dimensions to maybe touch upon there . fee and access plans are approved annually by us . they are approved in advance of the recruitment cycle for the year that they apply to . so , we 're just in the process now of finalising our consideration of fee and access plans for the 2019-20 academic year . so , there 's quite a long lead time . we , as part of that process , go through similar—we look at their financial sustainability , which is based on their forecasts—data to the stuff we 've just been discussing . and also , of course , the fee plans themselves make assumptions about how many students of different types , from different domains , are going to be recruited . so , clearly , if there is a continuing downward pressure on eu student recruitment , then that will reduce the amount of fee income that 's going to come in , unless they can find other students , and that will reduce the amount of investment in the various activities that are identified in the fee plans . in terms of process , we have two things that we can do . if institutions are becoming aware that the basis upon which they 've submitted a fee plan is fundamentally different from the reality , then they can come into us for a change to their fee plan . so , we have a change process . if it 's not fundamentally different , but there are always differences between what you plan and what happens three years later— . we also monitor after the event and , if there are differences , we would then obviously require institutions to explain those differences . if they 've had fewer students and less investment , we would need to understand that . conversely , if they 'd had more students , and potentially more investment , we 'd want to know what they 'd spent it on , and if they 've done different things , we 'd want to understand that as well . so , we do challenge through a monitoring process . the only other thing that 's perhaps worth saying is that , in the 2019-20 fee and access plans—they 're not published yet , so i ca n't give you the full detail—five universities have made reference to brexit and the brexit impact , and things they want to do through their fee and access plan to try and address some of those issues , so they 're in there as well . darren millar am : but we 've already said , have n't we , that it may be nothing to do with brexit , this dip in eu recruitment , because there are other factors like the attractiveness of the estates and the environment that young people might be educated in ? but they 're making assumptions that it 's linked to brexit , are they ? dr david blaney : not really . i think they 're making assumptions that it could be . there are things they want to do to enhance and to protect student mobility , and some of that will be funded through fee plan investment . so , the brexit conversation between the eu and the uk government might or might not sustain erasmus engagement , and if it does n't , then they need to find other ways of trying to support that sort of thing . so , that 's what we 're beginning to see in the fee plans . it 's them thinking about how else we can do this stuff . </s>
<s> how brexit might impact the fee and access plans of the higher institutions ? </s> darren millar am : okay . can i just ask about fee and access plans , and how brexit might impact them ? to what extent do you think that they could be impacted ? </s>
<s> other than fee and access reports , what else do executives do to assure that welsh higher education institutions are effectively planning for brexit ? </s> mark reckless am : you mentioned the fee and access report . what else do you do to assure yourselves that welsh higher education institutions are effectively planning for brexit ? bethan owen : we 've touched on contingency plans , but , in an environment of uncertainty , i think it 's difficult for any of us to know what the right scenario is . i think rather than looking at worst-case scenarios , what the sector is also focusing on is the promotion and looking for additional or increased sources of funding . so , we touched on strengthening the global wales engagement in order to sell wales , so more focus on marketing wales overseas , but also within the uk . the other area where the sector is working at a uk level very hard is making the arguments to uk government for maintaining access to the successor to horizon 2020 , which is arguably a larger part of the whole funding infrastructure—students is one part , but the whole funding infrastructure for maintaining research capacity . so , working with uk universities to make arguments at uk government level for maintaining access to those sources of funding is also a part of what the institutions are doing . we mentioned the welsh government 's he brexit group . that group , which is the welsh government group , is being advised by members on it , and that 's informing welsh government officials when they engage with uk government as well . mark reckless am : do universities seek your advice on what the risks and , indeed , opportunities of brexit may be and what you think they should be doing to plan for them , or is your role more one of monitoring what they do as opposed to advising what they should do ? </s>
<s> according to the group , are higher education institutions having enough preparations on expertises to react to the current situation ? </s> mark reckless am : i understand you do n't direct , of course , but my question was about advising . you 're overseeing , or monitoring—or whatever you like to describe the role as—quite a number of institutions , and presumably you therefore have particular expertise within your organisation , and i just wondered whether higher education institutions are doing enough to draw on that . bethan owen : i think we can advise—we can advise based on data and information that we can see . we can advise based on our judgment . the big thing in this whole brexit scenario is the uncertainty and the extent to which our speculation is better informed than the governing bodies or the sector collectively is probably the issue . </s>
<s> what do the group think of the existing problem of erasmus and the mobility funding for students ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : yes , thank you . we had evidence last week from some of the higher education institutions , including cardiff university , and it 's very interesting , in relation to erasmus+ and the mobility funding for students that , i think , only 40 per cent of the mobility funding in cardiff is paid for by erasmus+ . i note that you 've been consulting on national measures for higher education performance and that one possibility is using international mobility as a performance indicator . i was just wondering whether you might go further and expect universities to actually make commitments to funding international mobility from their own fee incomes as part of that . bethan owen : again , reflecting on the latest fee and access plans , seven of the universities are referring to mobility—either they have targets in them or are explaining what their plans are—so they are including an element of it from their own income and fee and access income . however , erasmus is such a well-established and long-term plan—if we were looking at a scenario where that infrastructure was n't available , to implement anything similar to that would be much less efficient and much more costly . and to enable an infrastructure that allowed— . ideally , you 'd want something that all welsh institutions could take part in , and that takes some investment and some co-ordinating . and , equally , you need to have the arrangements with your overseas and european institutions . i think it 's easy to underestimate the accumulation of time that has gone into establishing erasmus . so , i think replacing it would be a challenge . </s>
<s> what does the executives do to protect students ' interests as the brexit scenario evolves ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : because that 40/60 split struck me as being the opposite to what i perceived the situation to be . a key part of your role is to work in partnership with students , so i 'd just like to ask what work have you done with students , in terms of maybe protecting their interests as the brexit scenario evolves ? </s>
<s> what are the other barriers to welsh universities gaining more funding from uk research councils ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : is that something that you have a view on ? </s>
<s> what are the potential difficulties after brexit for the continuation and enhancement of researcher collaborations and networks ? </s> john griffiths am : okay . one final question : in terms of the researcher collaborations and networks that exist , do you see potential difficulties after brexit for the continuation and enhancement of those , and are there any particular lessons to learn from sêr cymru ii ? dr david blaney : i think that there are two things to say here as well . first of all , the brexit deal might or might not impact adversely on the capacity of welsh and , indeed , uk research infrastructure to play into broader collaborative activity across europe , and , in a sense , that 's a function of the deal whatever the deal looks like , and we 'll have to wait and see . but we 've mentioned playing into horizon europe , and being able to continue with that would be an important part of that capacity . it 's not just the money , it 's being in the club and it 's the signalling that we 're in the game . so , all of that would be important . and then the other part of my response to this would be that , actually , wales will need to continue to be good at the research it does , so maintaining the quality , maintaining the impact , and hopefully growing the critical mass . the sêr cymru initiative has been quite important in doing that , because it 's been very focused , capturing key research players , and the attractiveness that that has then to other researchers around them , and to industry collaboration , and they have been areas of real strength that we 've invested in . and i think they are already showing dividends in terms of the capacity to win more research funding , and to establish an even stronger presence in the international research market . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : mm-hmm ? okay . ooh . industrial designer : so we 're 'kay ? on the or no . i dunno where to put it 'cause the okay . could you s take it off ? . marketing : is that alright ? or okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : keeps coming off . 's fiddly . project manager : hmm . marketing : right . project manager : how do we sta wa how do we start ? does anybody know ? marketing : oh , another one . project manager : so that 's this industrial designer : project manager : oh okay , right . industrial designer : are we free to take notes uh okay . project manager : uh . . hmm . okay , just hang on a second everybody . i have n't actually looked at this yet . marketing : ah . project manager : um marketing : very nice . project manager : i have n't looked at it , but let 's just start it off and we 'll see what happens . if you 're all ready . user interface : yeah . project manager : so is the agenda ? opening , acquaintance , tool training and project plan , discussion and then closing . project aim is a new remote control . it 's original , uh trendy and it 's user-friendly . marketing : 'kay . project manager : project method , functional design , individual work , another meeting , conceptual design , individual work , and a meeting of details design , individual work and a meeting . tool training . try out the whiteboard , every participant should draw their favourite animal and sum up their favourite characteristics of that animal . marketing : okay . project manager : um . uh miss industrial designer , would you like to go first ? industrial designer : okay . so are we supposed to bring the little things for the project manager : yeah , why do n't you just c , i think just clip on clip marketing : project manager : do you have a belt ? marketing : clip . project manager : or put 'em in your pocket , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . okay . so my favourite animal project manager : yeah , what 's your favourite animal ? industrial designer : 'kay um project manager : is it rude ? marketing : it 's an elephant . user interface : project manager : that 's a very good elephant . user interface : the back end of an elephant . marketing : oh my gosh , i 'm never gon na be able to draw that well . project manager : 'kay , and you want to write up on there , it says you 've got ta sum up your f f your favourite characteristics of that animal . industrial designer : um okay , it 's big , it 's got a great memory . marketing : does it ? oh . industrial designer : supposed to have a great memory , we say an elephant never forgets . and uh dunno know why but looks like nice to me . project manager : okay . wonderful , well done . industrial designer : nice animal . project manager : do you want to use the wipe the m the wiper and wipe it off ? industrial designer : okay . project manager : and mister aesthetics designer do you wan na go next ? user interface : aesthetic yep , sure . marketing : i have no idea what my favourite animal is . user interface : 'kay , my favourite animal , marketing : user interface : uh let 's see . dunno if any of you have seen napoleon dynamite before . marketing : it 's user interface : it 's a liger , marketing : a what ? user interface : a combination of a lion and tiger . marketing : alright . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : have you not seen napoleon dynamite ? marketing : how . user interface : oh it 's a hilarious movie . you have to see it . and and it 's best characteristic is it 's pretty much the awesomest animal . but you have to see the movie to fully appreciate it . project manager : okay , well done . marketing : great . me ? project manager : yeah . miss mar miss marketing ? marketing : okay . not quite sure how this is gon na work . user interface : there go . marketing : cool . uh well i 'll try my best to draw . can i just draw the face ? project manager : um yeah , i think you can just draw the face , but then you 'll have to describe in writing how the rest of it looks . marketing : ooh . it 's a cat . project manager : that 's a very pr pretty cat . marketing : which also has what ? a big fat body and big and a long tail . project manager : okay , do y do you wan na do some write marketing : why ? project manager : you wan na just write some words about it ? marketing : because um cuddly . and usually cats are very friendly . usually . and they 're healing as well . they heal . and they can feel when a human 's got problems so project manager : wow , so they 're kinda spiritual . industrial designer : marketing : so , that 's why i like cats . project manager : well done . marketing : there we are , that 's me . project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : um , i do n't actually have a favourite animal , but for the for th for this meeting i 'll s draw a little marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh . i honestly ca n't draw for toffee . uh . user interface : industrial designer : really ? marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : oh that 's a project manager : no user interface : industrial designer : user interface : a prairie dog ? project manager : no uh user interface : oh a squirrel ? project manager : that 's exactly what it is . user interface : project manager : uh not a very good one industrial designer : not bad i would say . user interface : yeah , that 's pretty good . project manager : okay , well , you got it 's a s it 's a squirrel , and i like them , because they 're cute and stupid . user interface : industrial designer : very good . user interface : alright . project manager : right . okay , so , i guess that was the test to see if this equipment is all working . marketing : project manager : mm . let 's move on to the next page . okay , project finance , selling price twenty five euros , profit aim fifty million euros . marketing : market range internationally sold . project manager : yeah . production cost , ah right it 's got ta be ca n't cost any more than twelve fifty to make . marketing : ah right okay . project manager : experience with with remote control , so talk about who who 's used what . any ideas ? stuff like that . next meeting starts in thirty minutes . at quarter to twelve . user interface : so i think before we close uh , we are expected i mean the last slide wanted us to maybe discuss longer what our what our ideas where . i mean if you wan na go back to the last slide . uh project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , i think we 're i mean before we close the meeting , we 're supposed to come up with some ideas for project manager : oh k so we 're actually supposed to be doing this discussion like right now are we or user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : oh okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : i thought this was just t giving us instructions for the re to do next , but user interface : yeah , i think this is just the preliminary , get some rough ideas for what our experiences with remote controls have been and and what we would roughly what we would incorporate into a new one maybe . project manager : okay . right , who 's got experiences with remote controls then ? pretty much everybody . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , i think we 've all got marketing : uh . industrial designer : is this a tv one we are supposed to make ? marketing : yeah . yeah it 's a tv remote control . industrial designer : okay . project manager : 'kay um . marketing : well . a new remote control for tv . what would i like ? um . project manager : w what you want it big do you want it small . are we are we going for like like telephones are going little teeny tiny things or we are going for something that 's that 's big and marketing : medium . user interface : mm . yeah it seems like there 's like there 's sort of a tension between two ideas , i mean , you want you want one remote that maybe can work uh all all of the functions of tv and if you have whatever associated with tv the d_v_d_ player , or something like that , project manager : video and ts hi-fi and stuff . user interface : but like at the same time you do n't wan na really busy remote with a thousand buttons on it or something . project manager : maybe you yeah now th that 's the other thing is it 's got ta be cheap . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'cause i i i mean i was thinking something that 's got different like maybe a a an lcd display on it that 's got different pages for different devices , marketing : project manager : but that would p that would probably be quite expensive . industrial designer : but how do we know how much uh , i mean , how much do we have per how much ? marketing : twelve fifty . industrial designer : twelve fifty . user interface : it g ca n't be more than twelve fifty per unit . marketing : each . project manager : per unit , yeah . user interface : cost . industrial designer : so do we have to be realistic within the budget or project manager : well at the moment we could , wa i mean we industrial designer : close pr i do n't know how much it would cost . yeah . marketing : guess project manager : 'cause we this is what we th what we 're doing at the moment is just saying what what we 'd like , and then after we after we 've found out what we can like , some different ideas , we can then go and do the research to find out if these any of these ideas are feasible or not . industrial designer : right . project manager : so would be nice to have something that that controls lots of different things . user interface : yeah . marketing : could n't we have like one that comes out ? like so you have one in like mm industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it does n't have to be really thick . i mean remote controls can be thin bits . and then you have one for your d_v_d_ and you sort of slide it out , and then you have another one , you slide it out . project manager : 'kay . marketing : have slides . and then it all comes compact project manager : okay , that 's . marketing : into one . so it 's not you actually just putting three or four different remotes together but making them thinner , and um into one basically . user interface : project manager : th that 's an idea . user interface : yeah . marketing : so you just flip them out . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um have uh one very complicated one on one side with all the d_v_d_ and v_c_r_ access and stuff , and then on the other side o one uh a remote control that would be very very simple with just the channel , program plus and minus , and the just the mute button , for example . i can real keep it really really simple on one side and the other side be very complicated . project manager : one side for kids , one side for adults . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'm not sure if that 's like industrial designer : or grandma as well , you know it 's like what is the mute button . user interface : i 'm not sure if it 's a good idea to have a two sided remote though , 'cause it would be very hard to use in the way that you mani manipulate it . industrial designer : no , but you would slide it into uh someth like something on the back would hold like you would n't be able to press the buttons , but project manager : like it user interface : oh okay . project manager : or something like a flip telephone , something like that maybe . user interface : yeah . okay . marketing : that would be cool . project manager : f flip it open and you 've got all the buttons , or you flip it closed and you 've just got the basic buttons on the outside maybe . marketing : i was thinking that like a flip . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um , oh we 've got five minutes left . industrial designer : start breaking up . project manager : but okay . marketing : okay . um . project manager : well we 've got a k we 've got a few ideas there . user interface : yeah , we should uh marketing : . user interface : i guess by the end of this meeting we should have at least a a rough conception you know stage one was technical functions design , what effect the apparatus should have . okay . um so i mean we still have time in our next meeting to come up with the actual concept for the user interface , but the the functions that we 're sure that we want are that it can control the tv , but also devices connected to the to the tv , i mean , be able to operate project manager : yeah . user interface : d_v_d_ players , things like that . project manager : i have got i think we should also have a back-up plan of i 'cause i i i just think that it might be expensive to make something that i mean we do n't , we have n't been told it has to be something that will control everything . we should have a back-up plan of just a really good television remote control , that just that is just for a tv , but it 's just a really good , nice one . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : okay . right . project manager : what do you reckon ? see 'cause , i 'm just thinking bearing in mind th we 've got ta we have to have something that 's cheap to make . user interface : yeah , i mean . yeah , that 's true , maybe we should just concentrate on having a a good tv remote , and have it be um project manager : i think we 'll be able to come up with ideas and stuff a lot quicker . user interface : have it be like ergonomic so it 's comfortable to use , project manager : yeah . user interface : uh simple to use , and looks decent and project manager : may w you know , maybe even marketing : but what 'll make it what 'll make it interesting for people to buy though ? project manager : or maybe even so something that 's for disabled people marketing : i mean if it 's if it 's just like project manager : or so people that uh b do n't see very well or big buttons for touchy buttons for user interface : sorta find a niche for our remote , like market it to a certain kind of p kind of people , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or just one that looks really fucking cool . user interface : certain certain demographic industrial designer : user interface : project manager : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : could be really light or , i dunno , something special . user interface : yeah , no i think you 're right . yeah , rathe rather than focus on project manager : otherwise we 'll be we 'll be here all day talking about do this let 's do that n i think we sh i think we should user interface : y yeah . industrial designer : yeah , 'cause at the end of the day if it says just tv remote , does n't say com combination with all all the r user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . i mean obviously everyone we 're uh you know uh sounds like we 're all a bit sort of gadget heads and we like things that do everything at once , but you know , that 's user interface : remotes spinning out from other remotes and having little nested remotes inside . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , that 's right . yeah . i mean i 'd like one that makes tea as well , but that 's not gon na happen . industrial designer : marketing : i think a flip up thing , 'cause you always have this problem of like if it 's on this well i did anyway , like we had five or six remotes and they would be lying on the c on the coach , and you 'd come and sit down and ooh , the telephone 's the television switched on or something . so maybe something that like does have a lid or closes , so you do n't accidentally press a button or record button for something . project manager : okay , like a lock f like a lock functs function on it like you have on your telephones , yeah . marketing : yeah . but make it like really snazzy and cool people will want it . so make it yeah . project manager : yeah , it 's got ta be sellable . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's true what you were saying , i mean it does n't have to have a flip function , it can just have a lock function , so that it 's not uh not usable when you do n't want it to be usable . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : and even for kids as well . it 's um it 's safer for them , i guess . like they do n't flick onto channels and all that sl flick onto . project manager : no porn channel for children . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : okay . um alright , industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : so we 've got some ideas , we 've got um user interface : i guess that 's good good for now . project manager : let 's move on . oops , let 's close that . next meeting , uh okay . marketing : w what does i_d_v_i_d_n_m_e_ stand for ? project manager : industrial designer um which is marketing : ah ri okay . these are requirement specification . industrial designer : that 's mm . marketing : and i 'm marketing . project manager : yeah , there you go . so user interface designer , that 's that 's user interface : that 's me . okay . project manager : that 's you , so you got ta you go , you 're you 're gon na be the one that 's working out what what buttons we need . um . user interface : right . right . project manager : industrial designer , you are the one , you know , you 're gon na be working out kind of box it goes in , i guess so , um whether it 's what goes into the box , somehow . industrial designer : mm . har how it works an project manager : and in marketing marketing : these are requirement specification . project manager : user requirements specifications . marketing : so what the user requires project manager : yeah , what industrial designer : do you think our two kind of overlap , because marketing : in a remote . project manager : right , okay , yeah . user interface : yeah , it does seem like our our responsibilities have some overlap . marketing : i guess that 's what it says . project manager : you two you two are gon na be just , i think , you just double up , you know , you working together . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : you 're the one that 's got ta go and find out do th do the research , see what people want in a remote , what buttons are used more often , and s stuff like that . oh , we 've been warned to finish the meeting now . okay . okay everyone , well done . user interface : project manager : good meeting . user interface : alright , see you in thirty minutes . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : so , do we take these off ? </s>
<s> what are the functions and characters discussed by the group that a remote control should incorporate ? </s> user interface : yeah , i think this is just the preliminary , get some rough ideas for what our experiences with remote controls have been and and what we would roughly what we would incorporate into a new one maybe . project manager : okay . right , who 's got experiences with remote controls then ? pretty much everybody . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , i think we 've all got marketing : uh . industrial designer : is this a tv one we are supposed to make ? marketing : yeah . yeah it 's a tv remote control . industrial designer : okay . project manager : 'kay um . marketing : well . a new remote control for tv . what would i like ? um . project manager : w what you want it big do you want it small . are we are we going for like like telephones are going little teeny tiny things or we are going for something that 's that 's big and marketing : medium . user interface : mm . yeah it seems like there 's like there 's sort of a tension between two ideas , i mean , you want you want one remote that maybe can work uh all all of the functions of tv and if you have whatever associated with tv the d_v_d_ player , or something like that , project manager : video and ts hi-fi and stuff . user interface : but like at the same time you do n't wan na really busy remote with a thousand buttons on it or something . project manager : maybe you yeah now th that 's the other thing is it 's got ta be cheap . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'cause i i i mean i was thinking something that 's got different like maybe a a an lcd display on it that 's got different pages for different devices , </s>
<s> what is the problem concerning feasibility ? </s> project manager : now th that 's the other thing is it 's got ta be cheap . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'cause i i i mean i was thinking something that 's got different like maybe a a an lcd display on it that 's got different pages for different devices , marketing : project manager : but that would p that would probably be quite expensive . industrial designer : but how do we know how much uh , i mean , how much do we have per how much ? marketing : twelve fifty . industrial designer : twelve fifty . user interface : it g ca n't be more than twelve fifty per unit . marketing : each . project manager : per unit , yeah . user interface : cost . </s>
<s> summarize the group 's discussion about technical and functional designs of the remote control ? </s> marketing : could n't we have like one that comes out ? like so you have one in like mm industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it does n't have to be really thick . i mean remote controls can be thin bits . and then you have one for your d_v_d_ and you sort of slide it out , and then you have another one , you slide it out . project manager : 'kay . marketing : have slides . and then it all comes compact project manager : okay , that 's . marketing : into one . so it 's not you actually just putting three or four different remotes together but making them thinner , and um into one basically . user interface : project manager : th that 's an idea . user interface : yeah . marketing : so you just flip them out . </s>
<s> what is the disagreement concerning the two-sided remote control ? </s> industrial designer : um have uh one very complicated one on one side with all the d_v_d_ and v_c_r_ access and stuff , and then on the other side o one uh a remote control that would be very very simple with just the channel , program plus and minus , and the just the mute button , for example . i can real keep it really really simple on one side and the other side be very complicated . project manager : one side for kids , one side for adults . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'm not sure if that 's like industrial designer : or grandma as well , you know it 's like what is the mute button . user interface : i 'm not sure if it 's a good idea to have a two sided remote though , 'cause it would be very hard to use in the way that you mani manipulate it . industrial designer : no , but you would slide it into uh someth like something on the back would hold like you would n't be able to press the buttons , but project manager : like it user interface : oh okay . project manager : or something like a flip telephone , something like that maybe . user interface : yeah . okay . marketing : that would be cool . project manager : f flip it open and you 've got all the buttons , or you flip it closed and you 've just got the basic buttons on the outside maybe . </s>
<s> how did the team reached an agreement on solving potential problems of the two-sided remote control ? </s> project manager : or something like a flip telephone , something like that maybe . user interface : yeah . okay . marketing : that would be cool . project manager : f flip it open and you 've got all the buttons , or you flip it closed and you 've just got the basic buttons on the outside maybe . marketing : i was thinking that like a flip . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um , oh we 've got five minutes left . </s>
<s> what kind of design did the team proposed to help implement demographic marketing strategies ? </s> marketing : but what 'll make it what 'll make it interesting for people to buy though ? project manager : or maybe even so something that 's for disabled people marketing : i mean if it 's if it 's just like project manager : or so people that uh b do n't see very well or big buttons for touchy buttons for user interface : sorta find a niche for our remote , like market it to a certain kind of p kind of people , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or just one that looks really fucking cool . user interface : certain certain demographic industrial designer : user interface : project manager : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : could be really light or , i dunno , something special . user interface : yeah , no i think you 're right . yeah , rathe rather than focus on project manager : otherwise we 'll be we 'll be here all day talking about do this let 's do that n i think we sh i think we should user interface : y yeah . industrial designer : yeah , 'cause at the end of the day if it says just tv remote , does n't say com combination with all all the r user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . i mean obviously everyone we 're uh you know uh sounds like we 're all a bit sort of gadget heads and we like things that do everything at once , but you know , that 's user interface : remotes spinning out from other remotes and having little nested remotes inside . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , that 's right . yeah . i mean i 'd like one that makes tea as well , but that 's not gon na happen . industrial designer : marketing : i think a flip up thing , 'cause you always have this problem of like if it 's on this well i did anyway , like we had five or six remotes and they would be lying on the c on the coach , and you 'd come and sit down and ooh , the telephone 's the television switched on or something . so maybe something that like does have a lid or closes , so you do n't accidentally press a button or record button for something . project manager : okay , like a lock f like a lock functs function on it like you have on your telephones , yeah . marketing : yeah . but make it like really snazzy and cool people will want it . so make it yeah . project manager : yeah , it 's got ta be sellable . yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's true what you were saying , i mean it does n't have to have a flip function , it can just have a lock function , so that it 's not uh not usable when you do n't want it to be usable . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : and even for kids as well . it 's um it 's safer for them , i guess . like they do n't flick onto channels and all that sl flick onto . project manager : no porn channel for children . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : okay . um alright , industrial designer : okay . marketing : project manager : so we 've got some ideas , we 've got um </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay , good morning . this is our first team meeting . user interface : good day . marketing : morning . industrial designer : morning . project manager : i 'll be your project manager for today , for this project . my name is mark will be giving this presentation for you to kick the project off . that 's my uh that 's the agenda for today . well , of course we 're new to each other , so i 'd like to get acquainted first . so let 's do that first , i mean let 's start with you , can you introduce yourself ? you 're our marketing expert . marketing : yes . um my name is dirk , dirk meinfeld . um i will be uh pr project the marketing expert . and i will see what the user wants and uh what we can do uh with the new produ project product . project manager : okay , excellent . and you are user interface user interface : nick broer , project manager : yeah . user interface : user interface designer . i 'm going to uh look at the technical design from the uh user point of view . project manager : excellent . okay . industrial designer : my name is xavier juergens , i 'm the industrial designer , and there are three main questions that i have to find an answer to today . first one is uh what happens inside the apparatus , second is what is uh the apparatus made of , and the third is what should it look like . project manager : what should it look like ? okay . oh , let 's kick it off . oh , there we go . so , our new project is about we need design a remote control for television set , so , which has to be original , trendy and user-friendly . i took this off our corporate website . i think well it sums up what we need to do . it 's we 're inspired by latest fashion , not only electronics , but also the latest trends in clothes and interior design . that 's why our product will always fit in your home . so apparently we need to um be very at um very open to what 's currently hot in the market . so that 's what you need to do to bring us the latest info and what people want . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : so so we put the fashion in electronics . so that 's what we need to go for . anyway , we 'll take this project in three steps , three pha uh three phase of design . first step will be the functional design . marketing : yeah . project manager : and that 's basically what we 're gon na do . everybody has uh a piece of individual work and a meeting afterwards , so we can share information about so i 'm gon na keep this short , since we had a technical problem . so skip through this . uh . okay . every meeting we everybody can present their uh their views and everything , so to help with these , you have we have the smartboards here . we can use a regular powerpoint presentation . i 'm supposed to give you an introduction on this doodling board , so it 's actually it 's very easy . like it says , very simple , you just take out the pen . like you see here , i 'll just take the take here . that 's it , you just put it on the board . you see a pen here . you go here , just like using a pen . you can just draw whatever you want . it 's like the eraser , can erase whatever you want . and so it will be easy just to illustrate your views , if you wan na change the format , you just either take out jus just like the pen , and whatever you want , your current colour , your line width , just to make the line bigger . so it should be really easy . marketing : okay . project manager : this is to take the just take a new slide and back again . we 're just gon na keep using this board all the time , so i think it will be it 's very clear for everyone , i suppose . so i 'll take this out . okay . we 'll use that later . anyway . yeah , just just just stuff that you wan na share , just put it in the in the project folder , like i put my presentation now . i 'll put the the minutes of every meeting , i 'll put them there too , so everybody can read up if they have to leave early or whatever . so next , been here . well , gon na give the electronic white-board uh a shot . so basic idea is we have a blank sheet . just try whatever you want , and like it says , draw your favourite animal . i think the creative genius should go first . user interface : the creative genius ? industrial designer : marketing : user interface : thank you very much . project manager : so , draw us your favourite animal . user interface : well , i 'm more into the technical aspects of drawing , industrial designer : user interface : so i 'm not really good at drawing animals , project manager : draw us a technical animal . user interface : but uh the animal which i oh . project manager : yeah , it 's still erasing . user interface : pen . marketing : user interface : uh format . else my animal will be like king-size . i pretty much like a dolphin , because of its uh its freedom basically . let 's see . a head . actually worked with this . it 's like uh it 's a very uh high-tech . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : bit low-responsive though . project manager : so that 's what we do n't want . user interface : prefer pen and paper . project manager : we want a high-responsive product . so it looks more like nuclear bomb . marketing : very nice dolphin . user interface : it does n't look like a nuclear bomb . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : this thing is n't doing what i 'm what i want . marketing : project manager : let 's go easy on it . user interface : so yeah , well it does look like a nuclear bomb . project manager : marketing : user interface : i 'll just finish up real soon , because i 'm marketing : user interface : so it does n't really look like a dolphin , project manager : anyway , user interface : but then again , this is all new for me . project manager : it should it it 's supposed to be a dolphin , you like the freedom that it that it represents . industrial designer : uh-huh . user interface : like the ocean , like swimming . do that in my spare time , so that 's basically an project manager : what do you like ? okay . well , user interface : now we can forget this ever happened . project manager : our marketing expert . show us an animal . marketing : um an animal . project manager : pick a pick a marketing : i like the elephant . project manager : pick a clean sheet . oh . take a clean sheet first . marketing : what ? yeah . um project manager : just press next . that 's it . marketing : oh yeah . oh , a blank . okay , next . free , i like the elephant . it 's big , it 's strong , so uh uh oh , it 's a little bit user interface : it 's not really that responsive , no . marketing : you have to hold it , right ? project manager : marketing : it 's a beautiful animal . project manager : marketing : oh , you have to p press it pretty hard . with a smile on it , project manager : it 's a cute elephant . user interface : marketing : it 's very important . yeah . project manager : marketing : and uh not to forget its tail . oh . project manager : it 's a nice beard . marketing : yeah , it 's okay . yes . project manager : user interface : and you was making comments on my dolphin . project manager : marketing : i will beat the dolphin . no . project manager : okay , so it 's just a bee . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i suggest you make us the elephant in the market . the big and strong player in the market . this would be good . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay , excellent . on to the next one . industrial designer : okay . marketing : uh yeah . industrial designer : okay , you should press next . marketing : yeah . project manager : press next . yeah , it 's up there . industrial designer : okay . project manager : that 's it . industrial designer : okay , well the animal i 'd like to draw is a tiger . project manager : user interface : you picked a hard one , did n't you ? industrial designer : my drawing skills are really bad , so . marketing : experience with the tiger . project manager : marketing : what ? they are industrial designer : they are really bad , my drawing skills . project manager : marketing : okay uh-huh . project manager : sure looks smooth . industrial designer : i 'm not sure how the legs should go , but project manager : industrial designer : uh these are stripes . user interface : got it . industrial designer : i 've picked this animal because it 's very fast . it is uh it knows exactly what it wants . uh it hardly ever wastes any resources . project manager : what does it want ? industrial designer : uh well , basically uh it hunts for prey , but it does it always in a very well-thought way . uh it knows exactly what it wants . it never kills an animal uh just for the killing , so it 's very efficient . and it tries to do everything as fast as possible . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it always goes for uh security , in seeking uh uh a hide spot and uh and doing everything , security , speed and efficiency is important . and i think uh those things we can use . project manager : i agree . industrial designer : marketing : okay . project manager : , i 'm supposed to draw the animal next . yay i introduce to the world the amazing ant . user interface : marketing : uh hard worker . project manager : great team-workers . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : do everything to uh really small , but together they 're really strong . so i 'm gon na give it a smiley face . industrial designer : oh . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : not sure where the p . just put 'em here . whatever . marketing : project manager : think it need shoes . so marketing : project manager : i 'm just too lazy to draw it all black , so that 's the coolest ant ever . user interface : you 've done this before , have n't you ? industrial designer : project manager : i love to draw ants . it 's my hobby . marketing : project manager : anyway nah . just i think it 's very representative what we drew , i guess . like you take just take your freedom and use a a trendy interface that you design for us . marketing : yeah . project manager : just yeah . you 're supposed to make i make it different from uh from what other people have , and just make it a little distinct . anyway . another beep to stop the meeting . see . warning . finish meeting now . uh put this down . examples . well i guess we have a little little time extra , but just a little quick discussion to to open open our work . so what do you guys think about the first idea is just very short . i 'll start with you . what are y what are your first ideas for the new product ? what user interface : well , i basically had a question . do uh are we going to introduce a multi remote control ? is it just the tv or do we want to in project manager : the project i got was just for a tv remote control . marketing : uh user interface : just for tv remote control . project manager : yeah , i guess so . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . well , i was thinking about design remote control , with our uh motto and all . marketing : but user interface : uh thing to keep in mind is that we need to stick to what people are familiar with . marketing : yeah . user interface : no rational changes or whatever , 'cause it revolutionary changes , project manager : okay , so very intuitive design , i guess . user interface : yes . uh we might have to consider other design aspects of our product . so that was something i wanted to add , and perhaps some usability aspect . tv is becoming central in most homes . do we want people who are disabled in any way to uh , yeah , to be able to use it as well ? project manager : yeah , we want i suppose we want almost everyone to be using it . so i think i mean , really disabled people , yeah , might be a problem , but i think it 's a little take it into consideration . um yeah . i think we really need to cut the meeting short . you have anything you wan na share quickly ? industrial designer : only one thing uh that has to be added according to me is uh the the material it is made of , it should be something light . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that 's it speaks for itself , project manager : it should be light , okay . industrial designer : but some uh yeah . project manager : um , let 's see , marketing : yeah . project manager : where did i let 's skip that . oh , this is it . sorry , i skipped this sheet . marketing : selling price . project manager : what do we this quick what we 're going to selling price , twenty five euros . that 's for you . the production price , twelve and a half euros , approximately . industrial designer : okay . project manager : just go go for that . we 'll reach the uh reach that profit . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay , well that 's not that much to work with . marketing : international . project manager : no , it 's not much to work on . i 'm sorry , i skipped it . anyways , that 's yeah , this is it . do you have anything you you came up with yet ? about uh marketing transfer , whatever ? marketing : um about what ? marketing ? project manager : marketing i 'm not sure what you what you came up with yet . you have anything to share ? or else we 'll cut the meeting just cut the meeting short marketing : um no , not really yet , project manager : since we 're supposed to stop . marketing : but i 've some ideas project manager : okay . marketing : and i will uh say it uh project manager : anyways , the the personal coach will give you the your p your personal assignments and everything . so we 'll just meet back in here thirty minutes . industrial designer : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : i 'm sure we have that . industrial designer : good luck everyone . project manager : yeah , thanks for attending . user interface : mm , good luck . marketing : project manager : i 'll see you back here in thirty minutes . marketing : okay . yes . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the target 's user-familiarized feature and several additional design aspects . </s> user interface : well , i basically had a question . do uh are we going to introduce a multi remote control ? is it just the tv or do we want to in project manager : the project i got was just for a tv remote control . marketing : uh user interface : just for tv remote control . project manager : yeah , i guess so . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . well , i was thinking about design remote control , with our uh motto and all . marketing : but user interface : uh thing to keep in mind is that we need to stick to what people are familiar with . marketing : yeah . user interface : no rational changes or whatever , 'cause it revolutionary changes , project manager : okay , so very intuitive design , i guess . user interface : yes . uh we might have to consider other design aspects of our product . so that was something i wanted to add , and perhaps some usability aspect . tv is becoming central in most homes . do we want people who are disabled in any way to uh , yeah , to be able to use it as well ? project manager : yeah , we want i suppose we want almost everyone to be using it . so i think i mean , really disabled people , yeah , might be a problem , but i think it 's a little take it into consideration . um yeah . i think we really need to cut the meeting short . you have anything you wan na share quickly ? industrial designer : only one thing uh that has to be added according to me is uh the the material it is made of , it should be something light . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that 's it speaks for itself , project manager : it should be light , okay . industrial designer : but some uh yeah . project manager : um , let 's see , marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> why did the user interface think that their project should stick to what people are familiar with when discussing the members ' envision of the product ? </s> user interface : well , i basically had a question . do uh are we going to introduce a multi remote control ? is it just the tv or do we want to in project manager : the project i got was just for a tv remote control . marketing : uh user interface : just for tv remote control . project manager : yeah , i guess so . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . well , i was thinking about design remote control , with our uh motto and all . marketing : but user interface : uh thing to keep in mind is that we need to stick to what people are familiar with . marketing : yeah . user interface : no rational changes or whatever , 'cause it revolutionary changes , </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the additional design aspects of the remote control . </s> user interface : yes . uh we might have to consider other design aspects of our product . so that was something i wanted to add , and perhaps some usability aspect . tv is becoming central in most homes . do we want people who are disabled in any way to uh , yeah , to be able to use it as well ? project manager : yeah , we want i suppose we want almost everyone to be using it . so i think i mean , really disabled people , yeah , might be a problem , but i think it 's a little take it into consideration . um yeah . i think we really need to cut the meeting short . you have anything you wan na share quickly ? industrial designer : only one thing uh that has to be added according to me is uh the the material it is made of , it should be something light . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : that 's it speaks for itself , project manager : it should be light , okay . industrial designer : but some uh yeah . project manager : um , let 's see , </s>
<s> summarize the members ' acquaintance with the usage of the smartboards . </s> project manager : and that 's basically what we 're gon na do . everybody has uh a piece of individual work and a meeting afterwards , so we can share information about so i 'm gon na keep this short , since we had a technical problem . so skip through this . uh . okay . every meeting we everybody can present their uh their views and everything , so to help with these , you have we have the smartboards here . we can use a regular powerpoint presentation . i 'm supposed to give you an introduction on this doodling board , so it 's actually it 's very easy . like it says , very simple , you just take out the pen . like you see here , i 'll just take the take here . that 's it , you just put it on the board . you see a pen here . you go here , just like using a pen . you can just draw whatever you want . it 's like the eraser , can erase whatever you want . and so it will be easy just to illustrate your views , if you wan na change the format , you just either take out jus just like the pen , and whatever you want , your current colour , your line width , just to make the line bigger . so it should be really easy . marketing : okay . project manager : this is to take the just take a new slide and back again . we 're just gon na keep using this board all the time , so i think it will be it 's very clear for everyone , i suppose . so i 'll take this out . okay . we 'll use that later . anyway . yeah , just just just stuff that you wan na share , just put it in the in the project folder , like i put my presentation now . i 'll put the the minutes of every meeting , i 'll put them there too , so everybody can read up if they have to leave early or whatever . so next , been here . well , gon na give the electronic white-board uh a shot . so basic idea is we have a blank sheet . just try whatever you want , and like it says , draw your favourite animal . i think the creative genius should go first . user interface : the creative genius ? industrial designer : marketing : user interface : thank you very much . project manager : so , draw us your favourite animal . user interface : well , i 'm more into the technical aspects of drawing , industrial designer : user interface : so i 'm not really good at drawing animals , project manager : draw us a technical animal . user interface : but uh the animal which i oh . project manager : yeah , it 's still erasing . user interface : pen . marketing : user interface : uh format . else my animal will be like king-size . i pretty much like a dolphin , because of its uh its freedom basically . let 's see . a head . actually worked with this . it 's like uh it 's a very uh high-tech . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : bit low-responsive though . project manager : so that 's what we do n't want . user interface : prefer pen and paper . project manager : we want a high-responsive product . so it looks more like nuclear bomb . marketing : very nice dolphin . user interface : it does n't look like a nuclear bomb . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : this thing is n't doing what i 'm what i want . marketing : project manager : let 's go easy on it . user interface : so yeah , well it does look like a nuclear bomb . project manager : marketing : user interface : i 'll just finish up real soon , because i 'm marketing : user interface : so it does n't really look like a dolphin , project manager : anyway , user interface : but then again , this is all new for me . project manager : it should it it 's supposed to be a dolphin , you like the freedom that it that it represents . industrial designer : uh-huh . user interface : like the ocean , like swimming . do that in my spare time , so that 's basically an project manager : what do you like ? okay . well , user interface : now we can forget this ever happened . project manager : our marketing expert . show us an animal . marketing : um an animal . project manager : pick a pick a marketing : i like the elephant . project manager : pick a clean sheet . oh . take a clean sheet first . marketing : what ? yeah . um project manager : just press next . that 's it . marketing : oh yeah . oh , a blank . okay , next . free , i like the elephant . it 's big , it 's strong , so uh uh oh , it 's a little bit user interface : it 's not really that responsive , no . marketing : you have to hold it , right ? project manager : marketing : it 's a beautiful animal . project manager : marketing : oh , you have to p press it pretty hard . with a smile on it , project manager : it 's a cute elephant . user interface : marketing : it 's very important . yeah . project manager : marketing : and uh not to forget its tail . oh . project manager : it 's a nice beard . marketing : yeah , it 's okay . yes . project manager : user interface : and you was making comments on my dolphin . project manager : marketing : i will beat the dolphin . no . project manager : okay , so it 's just a bee . marketing : yeah . project manager : so i suggest you make us the elephant in the market . the big and strong player in the market . this would be good . marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay , excellent . on to the next one . industrial designer : okay . marketing : uh yeah . industrial designer : okay , you should press next . marketing : yeah . project manager : press next . yeah , it 's up there . industrial designer : okay . project manager : that 's it . industrial designer : okay , well the animal i 'd like to draw is a tiger . project manager : user interface : you picked a hard one , did n't you ? industrial designer : my drawing skills are really bad , so . marketing : experience with the tiger . project manager : marketing : what ? they are industrial designer : they are really bad , my drawing skills . project manager : marketing : okay uh-huh . project manager : sure looks smooth . industrial designer : i 'm not sure how the legs should go , but project manager : industrial designer : uh these are stripes . user interface : got it . industrial designer : i 've picked this animal because it 's very fast . it is uh it knows exactly what it wants . uh it hardly ever wastes any resources . project manager : what does it want ? industrial designer : uh well , basically uh it hunts for prey , but it does it always in a very well-thought way . uh it knows exactly what it wants . it never kills an animal uh just for the killing , so it 's very efficient . and it tries to do everything as fast as possible . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it always goes for uh security , in seeking uh uh a hide spot and uh and doing everything , security , speed and efficiency is important . and i think uh those things we can use . project manager : i agree . industrial designer : marketing : okay . project manager : , i 'm supposed to draw the animal next . yay i introduce to the world the amazing ant . user interface : marketing : uh hard worker . project manager : great team-workers . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : do everything to uh really small , but together they 're really strong . so i 'm gon na give it a smiley face . industrial designer : oh . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : not sure where the p . just put 'em here . whatever . marketing : project manager : think it need shoes . so marketing : project manager : i 'm just too lazy to draw it all black , so that 's the coolest ant ever . user interface : you 've done this before , have n't you ? industrial designer : project manager : i love to draw ants . it 's my hobby . marketing : project manager : anyway nah . just i think it 's very representative what we drew , i guess . like you take just take your freedom and use a a trendy interface that you design for us . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> why did the user interface choose to draw dolphins during his acquainting process with the smartboards ? </s> project manager : this is to take the just take a new slide and back again . we 're just gon na keep using this board all the time , so i think it will be it 's very clear for everyone , i suppose . so i 'll take this out . okay . we 'll use that later . anyway . yeah , just just just stuff that you wan na share , just put it in the in the project folder , like i put my presentation now . i 'll put the the minutes of every meeting , i 'll put them there too , so everybody can read up if they have to leave early or whatever . so next , been here . well , gon na give the electronic white-board uh a shot . so basic idea is we have a blank sheet . just try whatever you want , and like it says , draw your favourite animal . i think the creative genius should go first . user interface : the creative genius ? industrial designer : marketing : user interface : thank you very much . project manager : so , draw us your favourite animal . user interface : well , i 'm more into the technical aspects of drawing , industrial designer : user interface : so i 'm not really good at drawing animals , project manager : draw us a technical animal . user interface : but uh the animal which i oh . project manager : yeah , it 's still erasing . user interface : pen . marketing : user interface : uh format . else my animal will be like king-size . i pretty much like a dolphin , because of its uh its freedom basically . let 's see . a head . actually worked with this . it 's like uh it 's a very uh high-tech . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : bit low-responsive though . project manager : so that 's what we do n't want . user interface : prefer pen and paper . project manager : we want a high-responsive product . so it looks more like nuclear bomb . marketing : very nice dolphin . user interface : it does n't look like a nuclear bomb . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : this thing is n't doing what i 'm what i want . marketing : project manager : let 's go easy on it . user interface : so yeah , well it does look like a nuclear bomb . project manager : marketing : user interface : i 'll just finish up real soon , because i 'm marketing : user interface : so it does n't really look like a dolphin , project manager : anyway , user interface : but then again , this is all new for me . project manager : it should it it 's supposed to be a dolphin , you like the freedom that it that it represents . industrial designer : uh-huh . user interface : like the ocean , like swimming . do that in my spare time , so that 's basically an project manager : what do you like ? okay . well , </s>
<s> according to the industrial manager , what characteristics possessed by the tiger were worthy of being studied by the products ' design ? </s> industrial designer : okay , well the animal i 'd like to draw is a tiger . project manager : user interface : you picked a hard one , did n't you ? industrial designer : my drawing skills are really bad , so . marketing : experience with the tiger . project manager : marketing : what ? they are industrial designer : they are really bad , my drawing skills . project manager : marketing : okay uh-huh . project manager : sure looks smooth . industrial designer : i 'm not sure how the legs should go , but project manager : industrial designer : uh these are stripes . user interface : got it . industrial designer : i 've picked this animal because it 's very fast . it is uh it knows exactly what it wants . uh it hardly ever wastes any resources . project manager : what does it want ? industrial designer : uh well , basically uh it hunts for prey , but it does it always in a very well-thought way . uh it knows exactly what it wants . it never kills an animal uh just for the killing , so it 's very efficient . and it tries to do everything as fast as possible . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it always goes for uh security , in seeking uh uh a hide spot and uh and doing everything , security , speed and efficiency is important . and i think uh those things we can use . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : okay , good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee . we 've received no apologies for absence . can i ask members whether there are any declarations of interest , please ? no . okay . thank you . item 2 this morning is our evidence session with the cabinet secretary for education for our inquiry into the status of the welsh baccalaureate qualification . i 'm very pleased to welcome kirsty williams am , cabinet secretary for education ; kevin palmer , who is deputy director , pedagogy , leadership and professional learning ; and andrew clark , deputy director , further education and apprenticeships division . so , thank you all for attending , and we 're looking forward to hearing what you 've got to say . if you 're happy , cabinet secretary , we 'll go straight to questions . kirsty williams am : of course . lynne neagle am : and the first questions are from julie morgan . julie morgan am : thank you very much , chair , and bore da . i was going to ask some general questions about the value of the baccalaureate . could you give us your views on how the welsh bac is valued by learners and teachers ? kirsty williams am : bore da , julie , and thank you very much for your question . firstly , i 'd like to begin by saying that i as the cabinet secretary value the qualification very much indeed . i believe that it helps ensure that we are able to give our young people in wales a broad and balanced curriculum , recognising the need to develop knowledge and skills in core subjects but recognising also that the purpose of education is to help prepare our children for further study and the world of work , and i believe that the skills challenge element of the baccalaureate does just that . i meet with young people and teachers all the time who tell me about the positive experiences they have had studying for the welsh bac , and much of that was evidenced in qualifications wales 's review into the welsh baccalaureate . they did focus group work with a representative sample , and many of the learners expressed the fact that they have enjoyed studying for the qualification and have gained a great deal from it . i meet regularly with individuals who have been able to use their bac to successfully gain a place at university , so i believe there 's a huge value for welsh young people being able to study this particular qualification alongside the more traditional qualifications that perhaps we 're all used to . i think the challenge is that , given that many people are very familiar with what a gcse is and , as parents , we will know what that is and many of us will have done—some of us are so old we 'll have done o-levels . we know what those traditional qualifications look like , and therefore a new qualification—there 's always a job of work to do to communicate that , if people are n't used to it , but i value it hugely . i think that , whilst there is always room for improvement—and , of course , you 'll be aware of the review that qualifications wales undertook and that has suggested ways in which we can further improve and refine the qualification , but i think it is a valuable piece of work for welsh young people to undertake . julie morgan am : it 's great that you 've been around listening to learners and what they have said about it . have you had any negative feedback ? kirsty williams am : well , occasionally , of course , we do have concerns raised with us , and those concerns are similar to the ones that have been raised in the qualifications wales review . so , for instance , we sometimes have concerns about how some students balance the welsh bac with other qualifications they may be taking . some teachers feed back around the workload issues associated with the welsh baccalaureate . for some students , there may be concerns about the nature of the welsh bac and whether that can impact negatively on their well-being . and , obviously , that 's why qualifications wales have undertaken this piece of work so that we can refine , if necessary , that qualification and how we continue to look at how we ensure my belief that taking the welsh bac should be the norm for students but also recognising that , in some cases , there needs to be flexibility to ensure that the well-being of the student is not compromised . julie morgan am : and so would you say that it 's valued by learners more or less at key stage 4 or post 16 ? kirsty williams am : well , i think that , as i said , the vast majority of students i meet report very positively about the opportunities that are afforded for studying at that level . occasionally , we hear from students who i believe think that in studying the subject they may be compromising their chances because they want to do additional a-levels , and i 'm sure we 'll come on to , later on , whether universities , and whether the russell group universities in particular , value the qualification . but i feel that there are particular strengths . and i think what 's really important , and , in talking to universities , since the qualification became graded , rather than just a pass/fail qualification—i think that added rigour since 2015 has been particularly important in ensuring that there 's real value in students undertaking that work . julie morgan am : and what about the effect that the leadership in the school has on the way that the bac is received ? have you— ? kirsty williams am : as always , julie , leadership is crucial , and students ' experiences can be very coloured by the attitude towards the teacher delivering that particular course . and , therefore , we need to continue , alongside the wjec and qualifications wales , to ensure that the welsh bac is communicated to children in a positive way , the benefits are explained to children and their parents , and , also , we need to ensure that those who are tasked with teaching welsh bac in their schools or colleges feel confident in their ability to do so and to ensure that students have a really positive experience of that qualification , because if you 're being taught by someone who is telling you , 'oh , i do n't know why we 're having to do this ' , then , obviously that 's going to colour how you feel about it . and , if i 'm honest , i recently attended a youth forum , where young people from the county were discussing all sorts of issues—everything from the environment to their experience in school—and i was struck by the group of year 12 and year 13 students . i specifically asked them about the bac—i always take the opportunity to ask them about their experience of the baccalaureate . one school , the group of students said , 'it 's fantastic . we really enjoy it . it 's really valuable . i 'm learning a lot . ' students from a school seven miles away—just seven miles away—said , 'oh , i do n't know why we 're having to do this . ' and i suspect that that has got more to do with how that is being delivered in their institutions than it has about the quality of the qualification . so , we need to keep ensuring that those who are tasked with this see it as important , communicate that to students , and have the confidence and the ability to deliver a really positive experience . julie morgan am : i think our experiences in the committee are very similar . within the same room , actually , we 've had two completely different sets of views . so , what do you intend to do to try to ensure that there 's consistent support and enthusiasm for the bac from the leaders ? kirsty williams am : well , first of all , we have the design group of qualifications wales looking to address some of the issues that arose out of the report around ensuring that , especially from a teacher workload perspective , it 's not too onerous in terms of assessment . so , there 's that to do to make sure that we 're not asking children to duplicate and do things over and over and over again , which , of course , for any of us , would be wearing and we would question to the value of . so , there 's the design group looking at the qualification itself . we are ensuring , as part of our professional learning for teachers that— . there are existing opportunities via the regional consortia for support for teaching of the qualification . the wjec has resources and support available , but we will look , as we roll out our national approach to professional learning , at that the professional learning needs of those already in the system are addressed . of course , our accreditation for our new initial teacher education is predominantly addressed at being able to deliver the new curriculum , but , if you think about the elements of 'successful futures ' and the skills and the knowledge and the pedagogy associated with that , it 's very much in line with the welsh baccalaureate challenge certificate . so , actually , there are opportunities via initial teacher education as well , and we continue to need to look to work with our partners to be able to reinforce why this is a worthwhile qualification . and i have to say i think the best people to do that— . it 's not me . i 'd like to see past students of the welsh baccalaureate being able to talk about their own experiences and why it 's made a difference to them . i come across individuals for whom their place at university has been secured by that welsh baccalaureate , and , all of a sudden , if that 's what 's got you your place , it becomes a lot more valuable than perhaps it was six months before . we need to make sure that students are aware , and teachers and school leaders are aware , of the importance that this qualification has . lynne neagle am : suzy , did you have a supplementary ? suzy davies am : yes . i 've got one on it , but i 'll leave that one . i just want to go back to julie 's question about whether there was a different perspective or a different sense of value for students who are post 16 and those who are pre 16 . when one of the college leaders here was asked whether he had people coming to him in his fe college who 've been through the pre-16 bac and had heard evidence or had stories of , basically , those children cobbling together their bac in the last four weeks of term before they got there , he said that yes , that is his experience . does that worry you at all , because , of course , the whole purpose of bac is to teach skills over a period of time , and its purpose can not be fulfilled by getting it all done in the last term of—which year am i in ? —year 11 , in order to satisfy the curriculum ? kirsty williams am : yes . obviously , that 's not the experience that we would want young people to have , and , as someone who has had a daughter just finish year 11 , that 's certainly not the experience that my daughter had in her particular school , and i have another daughter who has just gone into year 10 , where the welsh bac has started in year 10 and it is a a two-year course in which elements are undertaken . obviously , we will need to address , as part of the design group and the work that qualifications wales is doing , how that is playing out in individual schools . but that would not be a positive experience ; we want this to be taken in exactly the same way as we would expect a gcse to be taught over a period of two years . but , andrew , i do n't know if there 's anything you 'd like to add from the college perspective . andrew clark : i think it is variable . i think that it will depend on the feeder schools to the colleges and it 'll depend upon the delivery models that are in existence in those schools . it 's been around as a qualification now for about a decade , i think . there have been differences in the way that the subject has been—sorry , not the subject , the qualification has been delivered . and i think it 'll be helped by a recent review by qualifications wales , because they 're doing a survey at the moment as to different delivery models in different locations , and that , perhaps , will inform more even practice as we move forwards . suzy davies am : yes , and estyn and consortia are looking at it as well . i do n't want to cut across questions , so , thank you . andrew clark : no , but it 's a known issue , if you like , that various people are attempting to address and bring a more uniform mode of delivery across the nation . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . lynne neagle am : we 've got some more detailed questions now on understanding , from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : just to drill down rather deeper into the issue of the variability in the way in which the welsh bac is provided , could you explain why you think that this inconsistency is happening , and then what the impact of the inconsistency and variability is on the value that learners attach to the bac and their understanding of it ? kirsty williams am : i think the variability can be perhaps explained by the fact that it 's a new type of qualification , the fact that different schools have adopted it at different rates— sian gwenllian am : ten years ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , over that time , there were some early adopters who have done it in a certain way , there are some people who 've come later to it , who may be doing it in a different way . and , as i said , it 's quite a different departure from traditional o-levels , from gcse-type subjects , where there is a programme of work and a syllabus . so , it is a different nature of qualification , and , therefore , as andrew has just alluded to , schools have approached it in a different way . we are alert to that and qualifications wales , crucially , is alert to that , and we are looking to ensure greater consistency in how it is delivered in individual schools . we 're also aware , in the school setting , in pre 16 , there are some concerns about the onerousness of the workload associated with the evaluation of the students ' work . now , clearly , there is a difference between onerous and rigorous . we wrote the qualification to be a rigorous qualification for the students , but we do n't want it to be jeopardised by the evaluation of it being too onerous . so , there 's that balance to be struck . again , that 's one of the issues that the design group and qualifications wales are looking at . that process is a really important process , so there is the design group , but working alongside the design group , who they are testing the messages and testing their thoughts with , is a stakeholder group , and there is also a practitioners group . so , that work by the design group is being tested with those people who have an interest : business , for instance , the world of work—is this qualification really giving students the skills that are valued by potential employers ? —but it 's also testing its thinking with the practitioners , those people who will be charged with the delivery of the qualification , and i think that 's really important to be able to get an understanding of the challenges of making sure there 's a consistency , and what are the barriers to that , and what steps need to be taken to ensure a greater level of consistency in delivery . sian gwenllian am : is there a correlation between consistency in general ? because we know that there 's polarisation in the secondary school sector between the good schools and the not-so-good schools . and is there a correlation between—if the schools are good according to estyn , or excellent , are they also good , excellent at delivering the bac ? is it a fundamental inconsistency across the sector that 's causing this inconsistency ? kirsty williams am : i do n't know . i do n't have that data to hand , but , of course , from next year , the bac will be a dedicated performance measure for schools . so , actually , we will be looking specifically at completion of the bac as part of the wider set of school performance measures . so perhaps we will be in a better position once that 's formally established to be able to track progress . sian gwenllian am : because some of the evidence we 've heard is that if the leadership is good around the bac in the school , well , everything else follows from that . so , it makes sense to me that it could be . kirsty williams am : absolutely . as i said , i do n't have the figures to hand , but , as i said , from next year , the bac actually becomes a formal part of the performance measures for schools . sian gwenllian am : fine . i 'll turn , therefore , to the understanding of employers of the welsh bac and the skills challenge certificate . from the evidence that we 've had , it appears that there is a problem in this area , that is , employers generally do n't value the qualification . is that your experience , and how can we improve that ? how can we elicit more engagement from employers of all sizes with the value of the baccalaureate ? kirsty williams am : well , the first thing to say is my understanding of the development of the bac is that employers ' voices were reflected and they were part of the process that drew up the qualification in the first place . you 'll be aware of the review by qualifications wales that found that many employers say that the skills that are developed through the baccalaureate are exactly the kinds of skills that they want young people to be acquiring whilst at school , that put them in a good place for looking for employment later . i would agree with you , siân , and not just in terms of the bac , there are lots of reasons why we need greater working between education and employers . i sit down with employer organisations to try and explore better ways in which we can work together—everything from ensuring that children have work experience opportunities through to , for instance , what more some of our companies could do to take up governors ' roles , for instance , in our local schools , so that employer voice and that business voice are heard at a school management level . i think these things are really important . it 's something that 's sometimes difficult . there are some excellent examples of really good practice where local employers work really closely with schools . i think of sony in bridgend doing a really , really , really good job working with their local schools . in other areas , where you have n't got such a big employer , it can be difficult , ca n't it , for a small business that is trying to do their small business to think about , 'oh my goodness , i 've got to do something to help improve the education system as well . ' so , i 'm always looking at new ways in which we can get that working together . as i said , the qualifications wales design group has a stakeholder group that is helping them with their review into the qualification at the moment , but there are really good examples where employers and other organisations are working together . we also need to continue , i think , to communicate more clearly with employers the nature of the qualification . again , because it 's relatively new , and the brands of the gcse and a-level are so strong , people know what they are , unless you 've either done the welsh bac yourself or you have a son or a daughter , or a grandson or granddaughter who has gone through the process , you 're probably going to be less familiar , and we need to continue to work together with the wjec and qualifications wales as a government to better communicate the value of the qualification . sian gwenllian am : so , you agree that there is a specific piece of work that needs to be done around employers and that the government should be leading that . kirsty williams am : yes , and we are working closely with , as i said , qualifications wales to develop a joint communication plan , and we continue , as i said , as part of qualifications wales 's review into the nature of the qualification—employers ' voices are being heard as part of that particular piece of work . but more generally , yes , i think there 's more that we can do to better engage employers with the education system in lots and lots of different ways . sian gwenllian am : okay . thank you . kirsty williams am : not just on the welsh bac . lynne neagle am : just before we move off this section , the variability that the committee has seen has been quite pronounced , really . we 've been to a school where they 've got a passionate and dedicated welsh bac school leader , but then we 've spoken to other schools where it 's tagged on to a variety of teachers ' roles , and that clearly has an impact on the way it 's being taught . you said in your answer to siân that you 're trying to ensure more consistency in the delivery of it , and you referred to the performance measures ; are the performance measures the main vehicle by which you 're going to ensure consistency , or are you planning to issue any more guidance to schools on how it should be delivered on the ground ? kirsty williams am : we will need to reflect the work that qualifications wales is undertaking . professional learning , i think , has a role to play as well as performance measures . so it 's not just one thing that we can do that will change this , it is a number of things—everything from the communications plan to making sure that teachers who find themselves responsible for delivering this feel confident and have had the professional learning opportunities to give them the skills so that they do a great job in delivering a positive experience to students . the performance measures , of course , as we know—sometimes in schools , it is those that make schools focus on something . so there 's a wide variety of ways in which i think we can look to ensure more consistency . but , in the end , i think it is professional learning and teacher training , ite , that will make the biggest difference . lynne neagle am : okay . and just on understanding , one of the things the young people in crickhowell told us was that they thought the name should be changed . they felt that it was n't reflective of exactly what the qualification is and that maybe having something that was clearer would be better . is that something you 've considered ? kirsty williams am : well , first of all , i need to declare an interest , because that 's the school my daughter goes to , and i do n't know if she was the one— lynne neagle am : she was n't . angharad was n't there . kirsty williams am : she was n't the one who said that . certainly , i 'd have to reflect . my gut instinct tells me that one of the issues that we have is developing an understanding of the brand and what that qualification is , and if we move away from 'welsh bac ' and suddenly start to call it something else , i think that could be even harder and set us back from where we are . so , that 's not to dismiss it , and i would want to reflect on those views , but i think if one of the issues that we 've got is developing a better understanding of the qualification ; if we were to suddenly change the name of it , that might have the unintended consequence of making that job even harder . but , obviously , if the committee was to make a recommendation , we would—i 'm happy to reflect on that evidence , but , as i said , my gut instinct would tell me that there could be an unintended consequence of moving away from that brand . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . the next questions are from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . you touched on this once or twice in answers to questions about how rigorous the qualification is . we 've had mixed evidence , i would suggest , from groups of stakeholders . we 've heard people say that the welsh bac has no rigour , that pupils are spoon-fed . we 've heard that the welsh bac is passively marked , the grades are inflated , that there 's little rigour in the sampling and moderation , there 's a confusion about how the scc is graded , and i know that 's something you talked about , actually , that introducing the grading system is improving the rigour . i suppose my question to you is : if the welsh bac is being seen in this way by stakeholders , how are going to address that ? to what extent is that a real problem ? kirsty williams am : i think making it a graded qualification has been really important , and i make no apologies for this qualification being rigorous—no apologies for that at all . that 's how it should be , and that 's how you create value , by ensuring that a qualification is rigorous . what 's really important is that it 's not just me saying that it 's rigorous ; there is an independent process that benchmarks qualifications . the fact is that at advanced level—because i do n't know if you 're making these observations about the pre-16 welsh bac , or whether we 're talking about the advanced level qualification—that is the equivalent of an a-level . it 's been benchmarked against a-levels . it has a ucas tariff associated with it . it is used by universities as a means of qualification that gains entrance into a university in just the same way as an a-level is . so , therefore , i do n't have any concerns about the rigour of the qualification . in terms of spoon-feeding , one of the reasons why universities like the qualification is that it 's very difficult , for instance , in the individual project work to be spoon-fed . it is very demanding of individual students , and it 's very difficult in a way . that 's one of the reasons why it 's valuable , is n't it , because it teaches a different set of skills ? because if you 're doing a traditional , say , history a-level or a science a-level , there 's a very strict syllabus and a course , there 's a textbook and people are taught to that particular syllabus ; with the welsh bac , it is individual students that have to think , for instance , of their own individual project . you ca n't get those off a shelf , and you ca n't necessarily just find that information easily . there 's real skill involved in being able to do that well and get graded well for that . so , i do not have concerns about the rigour . i do have concerns about some of the feedback by qualifications wales about the onerousness of the evaluation and what that means for teacher workload , which is one of the things that qualifications wales is looking at . but in terms of rigour and people being spoon-fed , then i do n't share those concerns . dawn bowden am : okay , because those were concerns , in the main , that were articulated by people delivering the welsh bac—by teachers . so , i suppose the question then comes back to some of the other points that were being raised about the consistency , because that may well be from those teachers in schools where they 're not taking the bac as seriously as some others are . kirsty williams am : and , of course , there would be— . there is a professional responsibility for those teachers delivering that qualification to ensure that the ethos of that qualification and the skills— . it would potentially be a disservice to students if that qualification was being delivered in that way . dawn bowden am : and i think what i was trying to do was to highlight the different opinions , because we also heard from teachers who were saying that those involved with teaching and studying understood absolutely its rigour , so it was the mixed message , i guess , i was just trying to test out with you . similarly , on the skills challenge certificate , again we 've heard from various stakeholders about whether , in fact , this is considered to be an equivalent qualification . we 've heard people say that it is different—it 's not the same as an a-level—so , therefore you ca n't absolutely hold it up and say it 's the same as an a-level . it requires different skills , and so on and so forth . so , just your thoughts and views on that , really , as an equivalent qualification . kirsty williams am : it 's not a question of if this is an equivalent qualification ; this is an equivalent qualification . there is a rigorous process that is undertaken to evaluate these qualifications independent of the government , and it 's not a question . is it a different model and a different way of studying ? yes , of course it is , and that 's why we do it . that 's why i want children and young people to do both sets of qualifications , because it does engage and expand the acquisition of knowledge and skills . so , yes , it 's different . is it equivalent ? yes , it is , and that 's why , since the graded qualification came in , it is regarded by independent bodies as an equivalent to an a-level , and it has a tariff for ucas in the same way as a-levels would have tariffs . you only have to speak to the institutes of higher education who use this qualification as a way of setting grades—you know , offers—for students that they see that in the same way as well . lynne neagle am : suzy 's got a supplementary before we go on to talk in detail about universities . suzy davies am : is that okay ? because i just want to go back to this element of spoon-feeding at post 16 , where you said it 's actually very difficult for that to occur , because , obviously , we 're talking about the personal project , and so forth . we heard evidence in one of the schools sessions we did that baccalaureate students were being offered a very short and narrow list of subjects on which they could do their personal project , which actually limited the scope of what they were able to do . and we 've also heard separately—it may have been with the colleges , i ca n't quite remember now—that some students were being told , 'on your personal project , just put in what you did for your gcse-level baccalaureate , and add a few paragraphs . ' i 'm wondering how easy it is to disguise spoon-feeding at post 16 when we 've got two instances there that , to me , suggest it 's more about the convenience of the teachers , who perhaps may not be very enthusiastic about the bac , rather than making sure those children get the best out of the qualification . kirsty williams am : yes . and that would be really disappointing . and , again , if i can use my own personal family experience , my daughter has tried that on with her welsh bac teacher . she 's in a different school from where she did her earlier bac , and she said , 'oh , well , i 'll just rehash my `` votes at 16 '' that i did last year ' , and the welsh bac teacher has said , 'under no circumstances are you to do that—no , that 's not allowed . ' this is about using your individual project , linked to something that maybe you hope to study at university , to get the value out of this qualification , and for you to be able to use this in your personal statement , and potentially in an interview . so , again , i guess what this does is show that there 's a variation , but certainly , where it is being delivered well , then that practice would not be encouraged , because it would be seen to be— suzy davies am : it 's gaming . kirsty williams am : —denuding the students of the very valuable experience the qualification has to offer . suzy davies am : okay . thank you . cheers . lynne neagle am : okay . we 've got some questions now on how universities view it . hefin david . hefin david am : we 've had an online survey response , which was quite a stark comment , not from the vice-chancellor 's office , but from a member of staff within cardiff university . and it said : 'the welsh bacc is not a fair substitute for a full a-level , and should not be regarded as such . i consider it to be a disadvantage for welsh students , compared with their english counterparts . ' can you reflect on that ? kirsty williams am : i do n't agree . hefin david am : do you think that that 's a view that 's held within universities , and are you concerned about that ? because it is a view that 's obviously held within cardiff university . kirsty williams am : no ; i would say that that is a view held by an individual in cardiff university— hefin david am : who has influence over students . kirsty williams am : well , that is a view held by an individual in cardiff university . and , actually , cardiff university—indeed , all welsh universities—accept the welsh baccalaureate as an a-level equivalent . i think it is really important to reflect on the wide range of opportunities at higher education that the welsh bac affords individuals . that means that it is deemed as an equivalent to a-level for the vast majority of universities , to get in to some of the most competitive courses , such as dentistry , medicine , veterinary science . so , those courses where we know there 's a high demand and high competition for places , there are institutions that are using that , including cardiff to get into their medical degree . hefin david am : nick brazil , the deputy principal of gower college , said about 50 per cent of the russell group do n't value the welsh bac . kirsty williams am : well , i do n't know where he 's getting that from . i have made it a personal commitment to establish this with universities . i have visited both cambridge and oxford . i spoke again to cambridge , oxford , bath , southampton , st andrews , only last week , who were exhibiting at the seren conference . i specifically took the opportunity to meet with those universities and to talk to them about how they feel about the welsh bac . they have a high regard for the welsh baccalaureate in a variety of ways . first of all , for many of those universities , for many of their courses , they use the welsh bac as an equivalent to an a-level . if they do n't , there are some courses , for instance , where they will lower their offer to gain a place at that university if the welsh bac is passed at a certain level . so , for instance , rather than maybe offering a welsh student a , a , b , they would offer a welsh student a , b , b , plus a welsh bac , thus giving students two opportunities to gain a place at that university , either with or without their welsh bac qualification . even for those universities that do n't use the welsh baccalaureate as a formal part of their offer—and this is the conversation i had again last week with oxford and cambridge—they value it as part of a student 's personal statement ; they value it as part of the interview process in which a student may or may not then be offered a place at that university ; and they also recognise that the skills learnt by students whilst undertaking the welsh baccalaureate are exactly the skills that those students need to make a successful transition from a-level work to university-type work , which , if you can imagine , is very much based on individual research and being able to guide your own learning . so , i just do n't recognise that in some way welsh students are being disadvantaged . the message i get consistently from universities is that there are significant advantages to welsh learners taking this qualification . hefin david am : okay . you can not recognise it , but that is contrary to the evidence that we 've received . i 'm not saying that the evidence is conclusive , but it actually demonstrates inconsistency . so , would you go so far as to accept instead then that there is an inconsistency in the way that universities use the welsh bac as a tool for application ? kirsty williams am : you would know better than anybody , hefin , that universities are autonomous institutions and they set their own methods of entry into those institutions . what i 'm telling you is that the evidence that i have received from universities is that , whilst there is a variety of approaches to how they regard the qualification in terms of offers , consistently , absolutely across the board , all universities tell me that the welsh baccalaureate is a valuable qualification and does not disadvantage welsh students . hefin david am : if the committee were to produce a report based on the evidence we 've received , that would be contrary to what you 've just said . so , i think we 'd end up in a debate in which we are setting out different points of view . so , would you therefore commit to exploring that perspective ? kirsty williams am : hefin , i would argue that i have indeed explored that perspective because i have taken the trouble to find out first-hand—not via my officials , but first-hand—from those institutions , their views . so , this is not something that is hearsay ; i have undertaken to ascertain the views of those universities . we have written to all vice-chancellors—last year—with regard to the welsh baccalaureate qualification . qualifications wales has an individual whose specific job it is to ensure that universities across the united kingdom understand the value of welsh qualifications . that will become increasingly important as we see a divergence between english and welsh qualifications . but i have to say that the evidence that i have from universities is that the welsh baccalaureate , whilst it may be used in different ways in terms of an offer , the consistency from all universities is that it is a valuable qualification . if you 've heard differently from admissions tutors and from the universities officially , rather than from somebody who has e-mailed in , then i would be pleased to look at that evidence , because it would be in stark contrast to what i am being told by universities . lynne neagle am : hefin is not referring to an e-mail— hefin david am : no , i 've said that . lynne neagle am : —we did do a survey and we 've also taken oral evidence . hefin david am : yes , and it 's representing the evidence that we received . kirsty williams am : and i 'm presenting you with the evidence that i 've received . hefin david am : but it will be presented to you as a submission from this committee , no doubt . let 's look at some admissions offers instead then . you do concede that there is inconsistency with how admissions offers are made with regard to the skills challenge certificate . how would you suggest that that is addressed ? kirsty williams am : hefin , each individual institution and university the length and breadth of the uk have different ways in which they make offers to individuals . what is absolutely clear to me , and if the concern is around the type of institution— . so , for instance , it is accepted as a third-grade offer in bristol , edinburgh , exeter , lancaster , leeds , leicester , liverpool , the london school of economics—some of the highest performing universities and russell group universities . it is accepted as a fourth qualification or amends the offer in places like bath university , and it is accepted in tariff-point offers in places like hull and the university of the west of england . so there is a variety of ways in which universities use the qualification , and that is their prerogative—that 's their prerogative as institutions . they will have different ways in which they recruit and how they offer places , just like different universities will have different views on unconditional offers . you know , there 's a difference in universities there , is n't there ? some universities do n't have unconditional offers at all ; other universities— hefin david am : so , what you 're saying is that the problem is n't connected to the welsh bac , it 's connected with just the way that universities make offers , and the welsh bac has got nothing to do with it . kirsty williams am : i ’ m saying there is a variety . just like any other qualification , there is a variety in how universities use qualifications for offers . what i ’ m saying to you is that , in the conversations that i have had with russell group universities , what they say is that there is certainly no detriment to any welsh student undertaking this qualification . they value the qualification . they think it is useful . it develops a set of skills that help students to make that transition into higher education . and therefore , i think it is a myth—i would go as far as to say that it ’ s a myth—that welsh students are disadvantaged in any way by taking this qualification . sorry , andrew . andrew clark : could i just add to that response ? there are , obviously , differences in the way that universities treat the skills challenge certificate and the welsh baccalaureate , which is the prime focus of this . the attitude of the universities has changed significantly since that was a graded qualification . kirsty williams am : yes , that has made a difference . andrew clark : and even those who do not make it part of their offer consider it exceedingly valuable in the way that young people are prepared to go to university and , therefore , as part of their personal statement , as part of their interview , the activity that the young person has taken by means of the skills challenge certificate is definitely recognised , even by those who don ’ t actually make it part of their offer . so , we ’ re still on a journey—that graded qualification has only been taught for a couple of years , but the journey is taking us to the right place , towards the right destination . hefin david am : okay . so , it isn ’ t just about variable admissions practices across universities ; it is to deal with the skills challenge certificate as well , which needed changing in order to improve that . andrew clark : but that was changed in september 2015 . when it was a 'yes'/'no ' qualification , i think they held it in less regard than they do now that it is a graded qualification . kirsty williams am : and that ’ s the conversation we had with some of our russell group universities . andrew clark : and that was an important shift three years ago . hefin david am : okay . so , last question , then : are you absolutely confident that any concerns we are offering are nothing really to worry about ? kirsty williams am : we will need to continue to communicate to all audiences the importance of this and the value of this qualification . but i am confident that the university sector , in its wide variety of forms , regards the welsh baccalaureate qualification as a valuable endeavour for welsh students to undertake , and they certainly don ’ t regard it as a detriment to students . lynne neagle am : okay . siân wants to come in on this , and then i 've got a question from suzy on seren . sian gwenllian am : yes , just that the committee , of course , has been trying to gain evidence on this sector from the universities themselves , but universities wales , which represents the interests of universities in wales , has rejected the committee 's invitation to submit any oral or written evidence . so , can you see the dilemma we 're in ? we are hearing a few things coming from some universities , we hear what you 're saying , but we ca n't get to the root of the matter because the universities themselves are n't willing to come to speak to us . are you also disappointed that they have rejected our invitation to come and speak to us ? hefin david am : where 's the enthusiasm , chair ? where 's the enthusiasm ? sian gwenllian am : and perhaps that 's a sign that they do n't want to be drawn into this argument between the government and us as a committee . kirsty williams am : well , it ’ s a matter for individual universities to decide whether they want to participate in the work of this committee . i would urge them to do so . all welsh universities regard the welsh baccalaureate as an equivalent to a-level , and all universities use it as part of their offer—welsh universities . sian gwenllian am : yes , but you see what our dilemma is , though , because if we can ’ t actually ask them directly , it 's a bit difficult for us to actually probe this and to help move things on ? anyway , i 'll leave it at that . thank you . kirsty williams am : well , it 's a matter for them , and maybe the chair would like to take that up with universities wales . lynne neagle am : we have had quite an extensive dialogue with them about it . suzy on seren . suzy davies am : so , just briefly , you ’ ve said several times that having a welsh bac qualification is an advantage and certainly no detriment , and that it ’ s valued by universities . but advantage isn't the same as equivalence , and we have had evidence from—i think it was cardiff university , again , where they had students with two a-levels and a bac who were actually performing as weaker students . so , even though on the face of it you 've got three a-levels , those particular students are n't matching up to the expectations of a student with three a-levels . i do want to challenge what you said about the students who are involved in the seren network about the baccalaureate being accepted for things like veterinary medicine and medicine itself . we 've had evidence from fe colleges , which are now significant players in producing our seren-style students , if you like , that they are exempting their students from doing the bac because it 's a distraction , effectively . what 's your comment on that ? because if this is a question of communication , which i suspect you 're about to tell me , one of the axioms of good communication is you can have the best marketing in the world , but if the product you 're selling is n't highly valued then you 're actually just doubling the problem . so , can you explain to me why fe is exempting their highest flyers from doing the bac ? kirsty williams am : i think sometimes colleges make the decision that four or five a-levels is of an advantage , and therefore , if you 're asking students to carry that workload , which is a considerable workload , that 's the preferred route for more able and talented students . again , what is quite clear in all the conversations that i have had with russell group universities , including oxford and cambridge , is that this is a myth . what universities tell me they want is not necessarily students with four or five a-levels ; they want students with three really exceptional grades at a-level and a welsh baccalaureate . i think that 's really , really an important message to get across—that it is not necessary to do four or five a-levels if you aspire to go to these russell group universities , or if you decide you want to apply to oxford and cambridge . as i said , in the conversations that we have had—and there is actually some research , and i will let the committee have links to the research . there is some research to suggest that those students who have been involved in project-based work—and , of course , that 's not just the welsh baccalaureate , that would be the epq , which is a qualification that is rapidly gaining traction in england . that is an extended project—research based—qualification , very similar to the individual project element of the welsh baccalaureate . the epq in england is seen as a qualification taken by more able and talented students , and what we see in some of the research that is coming forward is that those students who have engaged in that type of work , project-based work , individual-led , research-based work—those skills are the skills that are really attuned to the nature of university-type work . therefore , that is valued by universities and there is some indication to say that there is a correlation between the students who have undertaken that work and their potential success at undergraduate level . they also tell me that there is a link between , for instance , being able then to use those skills to gain work experience , placements and internships in the private sector and in the world of work , because , as i said , those types of skills are really , really valuable and therefore that 's why they value the qualification . suzy davies am : can i just add— ? it 's great that they 're telling you , why are n't they telling fe ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , i think it 's really important that fe colleges understand that there is a myth around the fact that these universities are looking for four or five a-levels , and if that 's the reason why then colleges are not allowing students or dissuading students from taking the welsh bac , i think we need to reflect on what 's important to those universities—which is the right a-levels . i think it 's really , really important that students are given the best advice about the a-levels they need to take , facilitating subjects to get into a university , and the value of the skills and knowledge they will acquire through the welsh bac as an assistance to them going forward . suzy davies am : okay , thanks . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : actually , it 's your set of questions next on universal adoption . suzy davies am : i 'll try and keep this on the shorter side , if that 's okay , everybody . you say in your evidence that you expect universal adoption , basically , by 2020 , i think it is , or it might be 2019 . what do you think universal adoption actually means ? what does it look like ? does it mean 100 per cent adoption ? kirsty williams am : what is means is that i expect all institutions to be in a position to deliver the welsh baccalaureate . i believe it should be an entitlement to all welsh students to be able to study this qualification , and i believe we should work to the situation where it becomes the norm to take the welsh baccalaureate . i also recognise that in some individual cases , there may be very good reasons why perhaps this is not aligned to the well-being of that particular student . but when i talk about universal adoption , i expect all our institutions to be in a position to deliver the qualification , and i believe it should be an entitlement for welsh students to be able to undertake this qualification . suzy davies am : but not an obligation—that 's the bit i 'm trying to get at . kirsty williams am : i think it should become the norm , and if there are exceptions to that , and there could well be for very legitimate reasons , i think that that flexibility should be allowed . but i think , for those students who are not doing that welsh baccalaureate , there should be evidence as to why that decision has been taken . suzy davies am : okay , so there 's a presumption . i think the performance measures , probably , are likely to sharpen the minds of some school leaders , so i won't pursue that . but can you tell me what lesson you may have learnt from the universal obligation for students to study welsh language in schools when those schools were n't particularly ready to offer a quality course ? kirsty williams am : as we 've rehearsed earlier , it is important that all of our schools and colleges are in a position to deliver this qualification well and deliver a really positive experience to learners . that 's why there is existing support available , and via our new professional learning programmes there will be more support available for teachers to ensure that they have the skills and the confidence to deliver the qualification in a high-quality manner . suzy davies am : okay . well , that 's going to take some time . would you consider pausing the presumption of universal roll-out until you 're absolutely sure that all institutions are able to offer the bac to the quality that you would like to see it delivered ? kirsty williams am : not at this stage . i have no intention of pausing . we have evidence that schools are already delivering the qualification really well— suzy davies am : but you know that we 've had evidence , and you must have as well , that not all schools are doing it . kirsty williams am : what we do know is that some schools struggle to deliver existing qualifications . i do n't know why we would turn round and say that this qualification needs to be stopped when we wouldn't stop other qualifications , and we 'd say , 'well , there we are , we have n't got a 100 per cent guarantee that every single school is delivering this particular qualification especially well , therefore we 're going to denude the opportunity of students to study that particular subject . ' what we 're saying is , 'there is a responsibility on us , on individual schools and on our regional consortia to endure that there is professional learning in place so that all schools are in a position to deliver the qualification well . ' suzy davies am : is n't it irresponsible to ask students to be obliged to take a qualification that 's badly delivered ? kirsty williams am : what is irresponsible is not to invest in professional learning to ensure that all schools are in a position to deliver it well . suzy davies am : okay . well , i agree with you on that , actually , which is why i was a bit confused when you had some in-year additional money in this year 's budget that was being given out to consortia rather than to schools to improve the ability of their teachers to deliver the welsh baccalaureate in certain schools . can you tell me whether the money—i think it was about £5 million that was going to the consortia in-year—will you will offer them suggestions that that is used for improving baccalaureate teaching ? kirsty williams am : the money that is available is going via consortia to schools . individual schools are best placed to understand the professional learning needs of their staff . and if that school understands that they have particular professional learning needs for the welsh baccalaureate , then i would expect the money to be spent on that . where a school is doing the welsh baccalaureate particularly well , then the school might identify other areas where they look to seek improvement . therefore , it is for the individual school to assess the professional learning needs of their staff . we ca n't second-guess that , and therefore it has to be right that school leaders are able to plan the professional learning of their staff accordingly . suzy davies am : i completely accept that and , as i say , it's not for all schools , but bearing in mind we 're facing evidence of polarisation of delivery , i'm just wondering whether there was n't a letter suggesting that they may want to focus on this in the schools that are n't delivering this well at the moment . kirsty williams am : well , again , that 's a conversation to be had between challenge advisors in our regional consortia who are aware of the strengths and weaknesses in individual schools , in conjunction with the leadership of those schools , to discuss how that professional learning money is best spent . there is n't a school that is fantastic at everything , nor is there a school that is not good at anything , if you know what i mean . there are strengths and weaknesses in all schools . it is for the regional consortia , via challenge advisers , and the headteacher , to have that conversation about what the professional learning needs are for that particular school , to ensure that all their teachers , across the length and breadth of the curriculum , are in a position to deliver good-quality lessons . but we ca n't second-guess that . kevin palmer : can i just make a further comment ? i 'll be this afternoon meeting with the regional consortia , estyn , the universities , and the rest of what we call 'the middle tier ' to discuss with them the configuration of a national curriculum for professional learning , premised on the priorities that are emerging from our current work with pioneer schools . and the shifts in pedagogy that you all know is found behind some of these issues , with the delivery of the welsh bac , those shifts in pedagogy are right at the core of the national approach to professional learning—so , things like project-based learning , the kinds of things you talked about today , moving away from a spoon-feeding model , not just for the welsh bac but actually right across the curriculum . the new curriculum requires us to move in these new directions . so , it 's absolutely true to say that each individual school is different , each individual practitioner is different , but we must give the regions and the heis , as it were , a menu of things , and guidance around where there are clearly weaknesses in schools . those weaknesses need to be addressed . suzy davies am : i accept that we 're going forward towards donaldson , and i 'm sure that you will be getting questions on that at some time in the future . i 'm more concerned about this bac that 's been around for 10 years , and there 's still , as far as we can tell from the evidence that we 've had , poor delivery in some schools , where there 's the prospect of obligation on the horizon . that was the thing that was worrying me . anyway , thank you . lynne neagle am : i think the issue of the difference between entitlement and obligation is a very important one and is a concern to students . you were saying it 's an entitlement , not an obligation , but we have had very clear evidence from colleges that some of them are making young people do it , and schools are making young people do it . so , what do you say to those schools that are insisting on their pupils doing the welsh bac at post 16 ? kirsty williams am : as i said , i hope that it becomes the norm that at post-16 level students take the welsh baccalaureate , because i think it is of huge value . there may be circumstances that mean that the well-being of that student could be compromised by making them do this qualification . there could be a whole host of reasons why it is not suitable for a child to take this qualification , and therefore there has to be some flexibility in the system , and we have to trust in the professional leadership of our colleges and our headteachers to make that decision in the round , with the pupil and their parents , about what 's in the best interests of those pupils . but i do think a situation where , perhaps , an entire cohort of students are suddenly deemed it 's unsuitable for , i find that very hard to believe , but there could well be circumstances , for a whole host of reasons , where that particular qualification— . and we would not want to jeopardise the well-being of a student by forcing them to do a qualification that was n't in their best interests , and we need to have the flexibility in the system to allow school leaders to make that decision , but they should also then be accountable for that decision . lynne neagle am : but do you recognise there 's maybe a case for strengthening guidance , then , on this ? because , we 've had teachers tell us that they have insisted on pupils doing this , and then the parents have rung welsh government , and they felt undermined , then . so , do you think there 's a case for strengthening the guidance or clarifying what the position is to schools and colleges ? kirsty williams am : very happy to do that . as i said , from time to time , parents do indeed contact welsh government , and in that contact there is a whole variety of reasons why that parent feels the welsh baccalaureate is not in the best interests of those children . sometimes , that can go from the extreme of , ' i want my child to do five a-levels and i think that 's in their best interest to get into oxford and cambridge'—i would argue that that is a myth , around the need to do that many a-levels—through to , 'actually , my child has a range of learning needs , and actually this qualification is n't suited to them . making them go out and do voluntary work in an organisation with people that do n't understand their needs and they are unfamiliar with could jeopardise my child 's ability and my child 's well-being . ' so , there 's a whole range of reasons why sometimes people have concerns about the welsh baccalaureate . some of those are very legitimate concerns . sometimes , they 're based on information that , perhaps , is n't correct , or the myths around , ' i need to do five a-levels if i want to go to cambridge ' . schools , then , have some flexibility . i 'm aware of a case last year where a parent felt very concerned that the students were also having to study for entrance exams into cambridge . a conversation was had with the school . they were able to allow the student extra time to study for that qualification and pick up their welsh bac work later on in the academic year . so , they were able to be flexible in the delivery of that qualification . i 'm very pleased to say that we 've had correspondence from said parent to say that his son went on to do exceptionally well in his a-levels and his welsh baccalaureate and gained his place at cambridge university , and that 's about having the flexibility , even at a school level , to be able to respond to the needs of individual students . lynne neagle am : okay . just one final question from me on this , then . as you know , mental health and the emotional health of our children and young people is a very core issue for this committee , and estyn have said that studying the skills challenge certificate alongside three or four a-levels is a significant factor in causing stress for some young people . how do you respond to that ? kirsty williams am : well , i would be the first to acknowledge that studying a-levels can be a very stressful time . that 's because students , rightly , regard those qualifications as high stakes and as having a profound effect on the opportunities for the rest of their lives . so , the mere fact of studying a-levels can be a really stressful time for students because they understand how important they are , and students want to do well and they want to be able to move on to the next stage , either of work or of university . we also know—and estyn reflects this—that students are also often trying to combine that with part-time jobs . these students are of an age when they want to be out and about and earning some of their own money and being a bit more independent . so , that adds added pressure to them . so , undoubtedly , this is a stressful time in young people 's lives and we need to ensure that there is support in school to support young people through this time to make sure that students are making the right choices in terms of their a-levels and the qualifications that they 're doing so they 're not having to do more because they 're under the impression that , by doing more , that 's going to make them more likely to succeed . what we know , actually , is it 's about the quality of what you do rather than the entirety of what you do that 's important to universities , and we need to make sure that students are getting really good information , advice and guidance and support at what is a challenging time in their lives , because , of course , it comes on top of working really hard for your gcses and then you have , the following year , as-level examinations and a-level examinations after that . so , these are stressful times in children 's lives and they realise the importance of these as high-stakes qualifications . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . the next questions are from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : this is about the wider impact of studying the welsh bac on other curriculum subjects and education provision , and we 've had representations in that it is causing some concerns . so , do you have any concerns about the effect that the welsh bac may be having on wider education provisions , such as the narrowing of the curriculum at key stage 4 ? kirsty williams am : no . obviously , schools are responsible for planning their local curriculum offer , and that needs to meet the needs of their learners , and it also needs to meet the needs of the learning and skills ( wales ) measure 2009 . so , there should be a wide variety of choices available . i believe that the skills challenge certificate actually does ensure that there is a broad curriculum and that children are exposed to different learning opportunities . and so , rather than narrowing it , i believe the welsh bac helps us to make sure that there is an expansive curriculum , and that lots of different issues are explored in the skills challenge certificate that ensure not just academic skills are developed , but , actually , knowledge and skills of a wider range of subjects about you and your place in the world is available via this qualification . janet finch-saunders am : okay , thanks . and then , to what extent do you think that the welsh bac should be give priority over other curriculum subjects ? kirsty williams am : well , i do n't think it's— . it should n't be at the expense of other subjects . it should be part of that wide range of opportunities that are afforded to students , and i do n't think it 's more important or less important than other aspects of what we already ask schools to deliver . janet finch-saunders am : what about where we 've taken representations that there 's a lack of capacity in terms of all the extra pressures of studying the welsh bac along with other qualifications ? i went to a school in bangor , and , again , as has been said here , it 's very polarised , the evidence that we 're taking—either some have found it very easy or some , including teachers , have found it extremely difficult to fit everything in , and they do believe that there is a lack of capacity there . kirsty williams am : and the onerous nature and the consequences of workload for teachers is acknowledged by the qualifications wales work and review into the qualification , and that is one of the things that we 're looking to address so that the assessment arrangements and workload implications for teachers are not too onerous . and , if there is any element of duplication—students being asked to do things over and over—then that needs to be addressed as well , and that 's why there is this review by the design group . janet finch-saunders am : okay , thanks . and then , how do you respond to concerns that learners are avoiding studying the welsh bac— where they can , that is—by attending institutions in england or institutions that do not offer welsh-medium provision ? kirsty williams am : well , it 's interesting , is n't it , about where children choose to study and whether they are motivated by the avoidance of the welsh bac ? people make decisions about where to study for a whole host of reasons , and it 's difficult sometimes to quantify what those are . so , for instance , we often hear this along the border that , because— . the geography is not easy , but it can be relatively easy to go across into the english system and therefore you do n't have to do this . now , the reasons for that could be very variable . it could be about the nature of the offer . we know that , in some of our rural schools , the secondary sixth forms are n't able to offer a wide variety of a-levels , and perhaps , by going to a different institution , a larger institution across the way , then you can get that combination of the a-levels you want to do , which simply is n't possible if you do it in your home school . or , we do have some consortia arrangements where a-levels are delivered across a wide variety of schools , which require students to travel . some students do n't want to do that ; they do n't want to do their a-levels in three different schools , but they 'd rather go to an institution where they can do it all under one roof . and that means , sometimes , moving across the border or , in the area i live , children making the decision to go to merthyr college , because its a lovely , beautiful new building , the facilities are absolutely fantastic and a wide variety of a-levels is available under one roof . we looked at , in particular , also , the perception of quality . so , if we take the example of king henry viii school in abergavenny , a school where , in the past , there have been , i think , within the community , some concerns about the quality of that school—whether it 's regarded as a good school . and , from that particular location , you can quite easily get to hereford college—a college that has a fantastic offer , does very , very well and has a beautiful building . what we do , if we look at the tracking of the students who have been retained in king henry viii , as that school has been on its improvement journey and has done better and better and better , the number of students that they are retaining into their sixth form has grown . so , the perception is , 'this is a good school , i 'm going to get a good-quality experience here ' , and more and more students are choosing to stay in that school than perhaps make the decision to travel somewhere else . we also have to recognise that , for some students , staying in the sixth form is n't what they want to do ; they want a different experience , they want to go to an fe college . they want a different experience . so , we have to take into consideration that students could be motivated by a wide variety of subjects , and there 's no hard-and-fast evidence that it is avoidance of the bac that is the sole driver for some of these choices . lynne neagle am : siân , on this . sian gwenllian am : the evidence that we 've had from one of the teaching unions—robust and clear evidence—is that this is happening , that is , that young people are leaving wales to go over the border to schools in england in order to avoid the welsh bac . that 's exactly what was said to us . but you do n't accept that evidence . kirsty williams am : i 'm not saying that i do n't accept it . i 'm saying that i think there are a wide variety of reasons why students make decisions about where to study . i 'm not aware of any comprehensive piece of work that has looked at those motivations , and i think there could be a whole host of reasons why children are deciding to move across the border . perhaps the welsh bac is an easy one to place that hook on , and that 's easier to acknowledge , is n't it , than saying that perhaps students are making that choice for other reasons . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . the next questions , then , are on teacher learning from suzy . suzy davies am : actually , i 've asked the question that i wanted to ask . lynne neagle am : okay , you do n't want to— suzy davies am : by all means you ask the others i had . lynne neagle am : okay . you have referred to training already . the committee 's got two concerns , really . one is about preparedness in ite to teach the welsh bac , so i do n't know if you want to expand on how teachers are being skilled up at that level to deliver the welsh bac effectively . kirsty williams am : in the accreditation process , which has not been without its pain , and some significant decisions made in that regard , the criteria for the ite programmes note that , and i 'm going to quote it : 'teachers should be able to help children and young people to make links across their learning , bringing together different aspects to examine , for example , important topics such as citizenship , enterprise , financial capability and sustainability . ' so , the prime driver for our ite reforms , obviously , is the preparedness for 'successful futures ' , but in preparing our teachers to be in a position to successfully deliver that , those are also the pedagogical principles and that shift in pedagogy that we see aligned to the welsh baccalaureate . so , it is actually a part of the accreditation process that the curriculum that the new ite providers will have to deliver—ensuring that teachers have those skills and have that confidence to be able to deliver their teaching in a way that , as i said , ensures that we successfully deliver on donaldson , but also on the same pedagogical principles that are needed for the successful delivery of the welsh bac . suzy davies am : in the pre-donaldson period , then , bearing in mind what you 've just said , do you expect to see a surge in improvement on how the baccalaureate is taken up by those schools that are currently less keen on it ? kirsty williams am : i hope that we will see increased numbers of students taking the qualification and an increase in the quality of that experience for young people . as we discussed earlier , we 're not just waiting for the new graduates to come out of our ite providers . there 's a whole cohort of the workforce already out there . they should be given an equal opportunity to ensure that they have the skills to deliver on our curriculum reforms and our reform qualifications , and every time the previous government has brought in a reformed qualification there have been specific resources made available to ensure that teachers are in a position to do that . so , when we changed to maths numeracy , a new qualification that was to be examined , there was specific resource made available for the professional learning for teachers to make sure that they were in a position to do that , and that 's exactly the same as the offer that we have available for teachers who are delivering the welsh bac . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . and you 've already said about continuing professional development , that this is going to be a core part of the cpd . is there anything that you want to add on that ? is it going to be fully integrated into the professional learning offer ? kirsty williams am : yes , absolutely . there is already—i do n't want to make the impression that there 's not already support available out there . there is already support out there via regional consortia for professional learning with regard to the welsh baccalaureate . there is existing support available from the wjec with regard to welsh baccalaureate , and it will continue , as we drive forward our national approach to professional learning . and , increasingly , there are interesting ways in which we 're supporting students , so i do n't know if members are aware of the new mooc . the university of bath , one of the russell group universities , delivered a mooc for the extended project qualification in england . lynne neagle am : what 's a mooc ? [ laughter . ] kirsty williams am : so , it is an online—a massive open online course . so , it 's a course that is delivered free of charge , and it 's delivered by information technology . so , the university of bath have done this mooc to support students with the epq . they have just launched , in conjunction with aberystwyth university , a bilingual mooc for the individual project for welsh bac . it 's our understanding it is the first ever welsh-medium mooc , we think ; we 're not aware of any others . and this resource is there for students to give them advice on how they do choose the thesis for their individual project : how do you go about , then , undertaking good independent research ; how do you reference properly , to ensure that you do that correctly ? and we 've seen over 1,000 students already sign up for the mooc . so , increasingly , there are lots and lots of new resources out there for both teachers and students to make the most of . and the fact that bath and aberystwyth have worked together on this , i believe , shows their commitment and a demonstration of their support for this qualification , otherwise why would the university of bath bother , if they were n't interested in it ? lynne neagle am : okay . just one final question from me . i 've written to you about a young constituent who moved institutions and resat the welsh bac , but was n't able , because of the wjec policy , to obtain a higher grade in it , because they 've got a policy that the grade is capped when you resit it . given what the committee 's been told about the variability in the way this is taught in institutions in wales , do you think it 's fair that young people should n't be able to go and resit it somewhere else and get a better grade ? kirsty williams am : well , given that welsh ministers are independent of the qualification system , i would want to be careful about what i said , because it is for the wjec and qualifications wales to regulate this . but , clearly , we would want to reflect on making sure that students have an opportunity , and a fair opportunity . andrew , i do n't know if you 've got any observations that you 'd like to make . andrew clark : no , not really . i think it 's an individual case , this one— lynne neagle am : but it could apply to lots of young people , could n't it ? i mean , that 's the point here . i know it 's a constituent 's case and i do n't normally raise those in the chair , but i think , given what we 've learned about variability , it is a valid issue for young people in wales , really . andrew clark : yes , whether it 's particularly related to the welsh baccalaureate , though , i 'm not so certain . and i think that would be a better question to ask the wjec , perhaps , and qualifications wales , because it 's a deliberate act that that activity is at arm 's length from welsh ministers . lynne neagle am : okay . any other questions from members ? no . okay , well , can i thank the cabinet secretary and her officials for attending ? we 've had a very useful discussion this morning , which will inform our report on this . as usual , you 'll be sent a transcript to check for accuracy , but thank you again for your attendance . kirsty williams am : thank you . lynne neagle am : item 3 , then , is papers to note . paper to note 1 is a letter from the llywydd to the first minister on the role of the assembly in the process of legislating for brexit . paper to note 2 is a letter from the cabinet secretary for education and the minister for welsh language and lifelong learning with additional information following the meeting on 8 november . are members happy to note those ? suzy davies am : can i just make a comment on the first of those letters , the one from the llywydd ? i recommend to assembly members that they read that again if they can , because , actually , it 's an important issue that is easily lost in the other things that we talk about with brexit , and that is the role of this assembly in scrutinising secondary legislation falling out of brexit . hefin david am : can i ask a question ? was that a reflection of all the chairs ? lynne neagle am : yes . it came to the panel of chairs— hefin david am : and it was obviously unanimous— lynne neagle am : —and we agreed that we wanted that letter sent . suzy davies am : thank you for that . </s>
<s> what was the grading system and its fairness ? </s> dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . you touched on this once or twice in answers to questions about how rigorous the qualification is . we 've had mixed evidence , i would suggest , from groups of stakeholders . we 've heard people say that the welsh bac has no rigour , that pupils are spoon-fed . we 've heard that the welsh bac is passively marked , the grades are inflated , that there 's little rigour in the sampling and moderation , there 's a confusion about how the scc is graded , and i know that 's something you talked about , actually , that introducing the grading system is improving the rigour . i suppose my question to you is : if the welsh bac is being seen in this way by stakeholders , how are going to address that ? to what extent is that a real problem ? kirsty williams am : i think making it a graded qualification has been really important , and i make no apologies for this qualification being rigorous—no apologies for that at all . that 's how it should be , and that 's how you create value , by ensuring that a qualification is rigorous . what 's really important is that it 's not just me saying that it 's rigorous ; there is an independent process that benchmarks qualifications . the fact is that at advanced level—because i do n't know if you 're making these observations about the pre-16 welsh bac , or whether we 're talking about the advanced level qualification—that is the equivalent of an a-level . it 's been benchmarked against a-levels . it has a ucas tariff associated with it . it is used by universities as a means of qualification that gains entrance into a university in just the same way as an a-level is . so , therefore , i do n't have any concerns about the rigour of the qualification . in terms of spoon-feeding , one of the reasons why universities like the qualification is that it 's very difficult , for instance , in the individual project work to be spoon-fed . it is very demanding of individual students , and it 's very difficult in a way . that 's one of the reasons why it 's valuable , is n't it , because it teaches a different set of skills ? because if you 're doing a traditional , say , history a-level or a science a-level , there 's a very strict syllabus and a course , there 's a textbook and people are taught to that particular syllabus ; with the welsh bac , it is individual students that have to think , for instance , of their own individual project . you ca n't get those off a shelf , and you ca n't necessarily just find that information easily . there 's real skill involved in being able to do that well and get graded well for that . so , i do not have concerns about the rigour . i do have concerns about some of the feedback by qualifications wales about the onerousness of the evaluation and what that means for teacher workload , which is one of the things that qualifications wales is looking at . but in terms of rigour and people being spoon-fed , then i do n't share those concerns . dawn bowden am : okay , because those were concerns , in the main , that were articulated by people delivering the welsh bac—by teachers . so , i suppose the question then comes back to some of the other points that were being raised about the consistency , because that may well be from those teachers in schools where they 're not taking the bac as seriously as some others are . kirsty williams am : and , of course , there would be— . there is a professional responsibility for those teachers delivering that qualification to ensure that the ethos of that qualification and the skills— . it would potentially be a disservice to students if that qualification was being delivered in that way . dawn bowden am : and i think what i was trying to do was to highlight the different opinions , because we also heard from teachers who were saying that those involved with teaching and studying understood absolutely its rigour , so it was the mixed message , i guess , i was just trying to test out with you . similarly , on the skills challenge certificate , again we 've heard from various stakeholders about whether , in fact , this is considered to be an equivalent qualification . we 've heard people say that it is different—it 's not the same as an a-level—so , therefore you ca n't absolutely hold it up and say it 's the same as an a-level . it requires different skills , and so on and so forth . so , just your thoughts and views on that , really , as an equivalent qualification . kirsty williams am : it 's not a question of if this is an equivalent qualification ; this is an equivalent qualification . there is a rigorous process that is undertaken to evaluate these qualifications independent of the government , and it 's not a question . is it a different model and a different way of studying ? yes , of course it is , and that 's why we do it . that 's why i want children and young people to do both sets of qualifications , because it does engage and expand the acquisition of knowledge and skills . so , yes , it 's different . is it equivalent ? yes , it is , and that 's why , since the graded qualification came in , it is regarded by independent bodies as an equivalent to an a-level , and it has a tariff for ucas in the same way as a-levels would have tariffs . you only have to speak to the institutes of higher education who use this qualification as a way of setting grades—you know , offers—for students that they see that in the same way as well . lynne neagle am : suzy 's got a supplementary before we go on to talk in detail about universities . suzy davies am : is that okay ? because i just want to go back to this element of spoon-feeding at post 16 , where you said it 's actually very difficult for that to occur , because , obviously , we 're talking about the personal project , and so forth . we heard evidence in one of the schools sessions we did that baccalaureate students were being offered a very short and narrow list of subjects on which they could do their personal project , which actually limited the scope of what they were able to do . and we 've also heard separately—it may have been with the colleges , i ca n't quite remember now—that some students were being told , 'on your personal project , just put in what you did for your gcse-level baccalaureate , and add a few paragraphs . ' i 'm wondering how easy it is to disguise spoon-feeding at post 16 when we 've got two instances there that , to me , suggest it 's more about the convenience of the teachers , who perhaps may not be very enthusiastic about the bac , rather than making sure those children get the best out of the qualification . kirsty williams am : yes . and that would be really disappointing . and , again , if i can use my own personal family experience , my daughter has tried that on with her welsh bac teacher . she 's in a different school from where she did her earlier bac , and she said , 'oh , well , i 'll just rehash my `` votes at 16 '' that i did last year ' , and the welsh bac teacher has said , 'under no circumstances are you to do that—no , that 's not allowed . ' this is about using your individual project , linked to something that maybe you hope to study at university , to get the value out of this qualification , and for you to be able to use this in your personal statement , and potentially in an interview . so , again , i guess what this does is show that there 's a variation , but certainly , where it is being delivered well , then that practice would not be encouraged , because it would be seen to be— suzy davies am : it 's gaming . kirsty williams am : —denuding the students of the very valuable experience the qualification has to offer . suzy davies am : okay . thank you . cheers . lynne neagle am : okay . just one final question from me . i 've written to you about a young constituent who moved institutions and resat the welsh bac , but was n't able , because of the wjec policy , to obtain a higher grade in it , because they 've got a policy that the grade is capped when you resit it . given what the committee 's been told about the variability in the way this is taught in institutions in wales , do you think it 's fair that young people should n't be able to go and resit it somewhere else and get a better grade ? kirsty williams am : well , given that welsh ministers are independent of the qualification system , i would want to be careful about what i said , because it is for the wjec and qualifications wales to regulate this . but , clearly , we would want to reflect on making sure that students have an opportunity , and a fair opportunity . andrew , i do n't know if you 've got any observations that you 'd like to make . andrew clark : no , not really . i think it 's an individual case , this one— lynne neagle am : but it could apply to lots of young people , could n't it ? i mean , that 's the point here . i know it 's a constituent 's case and i do n't normally raise those in the chair , but i think , given what we 've learned about variability , it is a valid issue for young people in wales , really . </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams think of the grading system and its fairness ? </s> dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . you touched on this once or twice in answers to questions about how rigorous the qualification is . we 've had mixed evidence , i would suggest , from groups of stakeholders . we 've heard people say that the welsh bac has no rigour , that pupils are spoon-fed . we 've heard that the welsh bac is passively marked , the grades are inflated , that there 's little rigour in the sampling and moderation , there 's a confusion about how the scc is graded , and i know that 's something you talked about , actually , that introducing the grading system is improving the rigour . i suppose my question to you is : if the welsh bac is being seen in this way by stakeholders , how are going to address that ? to what extent is that a real problem ? kirsty williams am : i think making it a graded qualification has been really important , and i make no apologies for this qualification being rigorous—no apologies for that at all . that 's how it should be , and that 's how you create value , by ensuring that a qualification is rigorous . what 's really important is that it 's not just me saying that it 's rigorous ; there is an independent process that benchmarks qualifications . the fact is that at advanced level—because i do n't know if you 're making these observations about the pre-16 welsh bac , or whether we 're talking about the advanced level qualification—that is the equivalent of an a-level . it 's been benchmarked against a-levels . it has a ucas tariff associated with it . it is used by universities as a means of qualification that gains entrance into a university in just the same way as an a-level is . so , therefore , i do n't have any concerns about the rigour of the qualification . in terms of spoon-feeding , one of the reasons why universities like the qualification is that it 's very difficult , for instance , in the individual project work to be spoon-fed . it is very demanding of individual students , and it 's very difficult in a way . that 's one of the reasons why it 's valuable , is n't it , because it teaches a different set of skills ? because if you 're doing a traditional , say , history a-level or a science a-level , there 's a very strict syllabus and a course , there 's a textbook and people are taught to that particular syllabus ; with the welsh bac , it is individual students that have to think , for instance , of their own individual project . you ca n't get those off a shelf , and you ca n't necessarily just find that information easily . there 's real skill involved in being able to do that well and get graded well for that . so , i do not have concerns about the rigour . i do have concerns about some of the feedback by qualifications wales about the onerousness of the evaluation and what that means for teacher workload , which is one of the things that qualifications wales is looking at . but in terms of rigour and people being spoon-fed , then i do n't share those concerns . dawn bowden am : okay , because those were concerns , in the main , that were articulated by people delivering the welsh bac—by teachers . so , i suppose the question then comes back to some of the other points that were being raised about the consistency , because that may well be from those teachers in schools where they 're not taking the bac as seriously as some others are . kirsty williams am : and , of course , there would be— . there is a professional responsibility for those teachers delivering that qualification to ensure that the ethos of that qualification and the skills— . it would potentially be a disservice to students if that qualification was being delivered in that way . dawn bowden am : and i think what i was trying to do was to highlight the different opinions , because we also heard from teachers who were saying that those involved with teaching and studying understood absolutely its rigour , so it was the mixed message , i guess , i was just trying to test out with you . similarly , on the skills challenge certificate , again we 've heard from various stakeholders about whether , in fact , this is considered to be an equivalent qualification . we 've heard people say that it is different—it 's not the same as an a-level—so , therefore you ca n't absolutely hold it up and say it 's the same as an a-level . it requires different skills , and so on and so forth . so , just your thoughts and views on that , really , as an equivalent qualification . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion of the occurrence of `` spoon-feeding '' in post-16 education . </s> lynne neagle am : suzy 's got a supplementary before we go on to talk in detail about universities . suzy davies am : is that okay ? because i just want to go back to this element of spoon-feeding at post 16 , where you said it 's actually very difficult for that to occur , because , obviously , we 're talking about the personal project , and so forth . we heard evidence in one of the schools sessions we did that baccalaureate students were being offered a very short and narrow list of subjects on which they could do their personal project , which actually limited the scope of what they were able to do . and we 've also heard separately—it may have been with the colleges , i ca n't quite remember now—that some students were being told , 'on your personal project , just put in what you did for your gcse-level baccalaureate , and add a few paragraphs . ' i 'm wondering how easy it is to disguise spoon-feeding at post 16 when we 've got two instances there that , to me , suggest it 's more about the convenience of the teachers , who perhaps may not be very enthusiastic about the bac , rather than making sure those children get the best out of the qualification . kirsty williams am : yes . and that would be really disappointing . and , again , if i can use my own personal family experience , my daughter has tried that on with her welsh bac teacher . she 's in a different school from where she did her earlier bac , and she said , 'oh , well , i 'll just rehash my `` votes at 16 '' that i did last year ' , and the welsh bac teacher has said , 'under no circumstances are you to do that—no , that 's not allowed . ' this is about using your individual project , linked to something that maybe you hope to study at university , to get the value out of this qualification , and for you to be able to use this in your personal statement , and potentially in an interview . so , again , i guess what this does is show that there 's a variation , but certainly , where it is being delivered well , then that practice would not be encouraged , because it would be seen to be— suzy davies am : it 's gaming . kirsty williams am : —denuding the students of the very valuable experience the qualification has to offer . </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about universities ' views on the baccalaureate ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay . we 've got some questions now on how universities view it . hefin david . hefin david am : we 've had an online survey response , which was quite a stark comment , not from the vice-chancellor 's office , but from a member of staff within cardiff university . and it said : 'the welsh bacc is not a fair substitute for a full a-level , and should not be regarded as such . i consider it to be a disadvantage for welsh students , compared with their english counterparts . ' can you reflect on that ? kirsty williams am : i do n't agree . hefin david am : do you think that that 's a view that 's held within universities , and are you concerned about that ? because it is a view that 's obviously held within cardiff university . kirsty williams am : no ; i would say that that is a view held by an individual in cardiff university— hefin david am : who has influence over students . kirsty williams am : well , that is a view held by an individual in cardiff university . and , actually , cardiff university—indeed , all welsh universities—accept the welsh baccalaureate as an a-level equivalent . i think it is really important to reflect on the wide range of opportunities at higher education that the welsh bac affords individuals . that means that it is deemed as an equivalent to a-level for the vast majority of universities , to get in to some of the most competitive courses , such as dentistry , medicine , veterinary science . so , those courses where we know there 's a high demand and high competition for places , there are institutions that are using that , including cardiff to get into their medical degree . hefin david am : nick brazil , the deputy principal of gower college , said about 50 per cent of the russell group do n't value the welsh bac . kirsty williams am : well , i do n't know where he 's getting that from . i have made it a personal commitment to establish this with universities . i have visited both cambridge and oxford . i spoke again to cambridge , oxford , bath , southampton , st andrews , only last week , who were exhibiting at the seren conference . i specifically took the opportunity to meet with those universities and to talk to them about how they feel about the welsh bac . they have a high regard for the welsh baccalaureate in a variety of ways . first of all , for many of those universities , for many of their courses , they use the welsh bac as an equivalent to an a-level . if they do n't , there are some courses , for instance , where they will lower their offer to gain a place at that university if the welsh bac is passed at a certain level . so , for instance , rather than maybe offering a welsh student a , a , b , they would offer a welsh student a , b , b , plus a welsh bac , thus giving students two opportunities to gain a place at that university , either with or without their welsh bac qualification . even for those universities that do n't use the welsh baccalaureate as a formal part of their offer—and this is the conversation i had again last week with oxford and cambridge—they value it as part of a student 's personal statement ; they value it as part of the interview process in which a student may or may not then be offered a place at that university ; and they also recognise that the skills learnt by students whilst undertaking the welsh baccalaureate are exactly the skills that those students need to make a successful transition from a-level work to university-type work , which , if you can imagine , is very much based on individual research and being able to guide your own learning . so , i just do n't recognise that in some way welsh students are being disadvantaged . the message i get consistently from universities is that there are significant advantages to welsh learners taking this qualification . hefin david am : okay . you can not recognise it , but that is contrary to the evidence that we 've received . i 'm not saying that the evidence is conclusive , but it actually demonstrates inconsistency . so , would you go so far as to accept instead then that there is an inconsistency in the way that universities use the welsh bac as a tool for application ? kirsty williams am : you would know better than anybody , hefin , that universities are autonomous institutions and they set their own methods of entry into those institutions . what i 'm telling you is that the evidence that i have received from universities is that , whilst there is a variety of approaches to how they regard the qualification in terms of offers , consistently , absolutely across the board , all universities tell me that the welsh baccalaureate is a valuable qualification and does not disadvantage welsh students . hefin david am : if the committee were to produce a report based on the evidence we 've received , that would be contrary to what you 've just said . so , i think we 'd end up in a debate in which we are setting out different points of view . so , would you therefore commit to exploring that perspective ? kirsty williams am : hefin , i would argue that i have indeed explored that perspective because i have taken the trouble to find out first-hand—not via my officials , but first-hand—from those institutions , their views . so , this is not something that is hearsay ; i have undertaken to ascertain the views of those universities . we have written to all vice-chancellors—last year—with regard to the welsh baccalaureate qualification . qualifications wales has an individual whose specific job it is to ensure that universities across the united kingdom understand the value of welsh qualifications . that will become increasingly important as we see a divergence between english and welsh qualifications . but i have to say that the evidence that i have from universities is that the welsh baccalaureate , whilst it may be used in different ways in terms of an offer , the consistency from all universities is that it is a valuable qualification . if you 've heard differently from admissions tutors and from the universities officially , rather than from somebody who has e-mailed in , then i would be pleased to look at that evidence , because it would be in stark contrast to what i am being told by universities . lynne neagle am : hefin is not referring to an e-mail— hefin david am : no , i 've said that . lynne neagle am : —we did do a survey and we 've also taken oral evidence . hefin david am : yes , and it 's representing the evidence that we received . kirsty williams am : and i 'm presenting you with the evidence that i 've received . hefin david am : but it will be presented to you as a submission from this committee , no doubt . let 's look at some admissions offers instead then . you do concede that there is inconsistency with how admissions offers are made with regard to the skills challenge certificate . how would you suggest that that is addressed ? kirsty williams am : hefin , each individual institution and university the length and breadth of the uk have different ways in which they make offers to individuals . what is absolutely clear to me , and if the concern is around the type of institution— . so , for instance , it is accepted as a third-grade offer in bristol , edinburgh , exeter , lancaster , leeds , leicester , liverpool , the london school of economics—some of the highest performing universities and russell group universities . it is accepted as a fourth qualification or amends the offer in places like bath university , and it is accepted in tariff-point offers in places like hull and the university of the west of england . so there is a variety of ways in which universities use the qualification , and that is their prerogative—that 's their prerogative as institutions . they will have different ways in which they recruit and how they offer places , just like different universities will have different views on unconditional offers . you know , there 's a difference in universities there , is n't there ? some universities do n't have unconditional offers at all ; other universities— hefin david am : so , what you 're saying is that the problem is n't connected to the welsh bac , it 's connected with just the way that universities make offers , and the welsh bac has got nothing to do with it . kirsty williams am : i ’ m saying there is a variety . just like any other qualification , there is a variety in how universities use qualifications for offers . what i ’ m saying to you is that , in the conversations that i have had with russell group universities , what they say is that there is certainly no detriment to any welsh student undertaking this qualification . they value the qualification . they think it is useful . it develops a set of skills that help students to make that transition into higher education . and therefore , i think it is a myth—i would go as far as to say that it ’ s a myth—that welsh students are disadvantaged in any way by taking this qualification . sorry , andrew . andrew clark : could i just add to that response ? there are , obviously , differences in the way that universities treat the skills challenge certificate and the welsh baccalaureate , which is the prime focus of this . the attitude of the universities has changed significantly since that was a graded qualification . kirsty williams am : yes , that has made a difference . andrew clark : and even those who do not make it part of their offer consider it exceedingly valuable in the way that young people are prepared to go to university and , therefore , as part of their personal statement , as part of their interview , the activity that the young person has taken by means of the skills challenge certificate is definitely recognised , even by those who don ’ t actually make it part of their offer . so , we ’ re still on a journey—that graded qualification has only been taught for a couple of years , but the journey is taking us to the right place , towards the right destination . hefin david am : okay . so , it isn ’ t just about variable admissions practices across universities ; it is to deal with the skills challenge certificate as well , which needed changing in order to improve that . andrew clark : but that was changed in september 2015 . when it was a 'yes'/'no ' qualification , i think they held it in less regard than they do now that it is a graded qualification . kirsty williams am : and that ’ s the conversation we had with some of our russell group universities . andrew clark : and that was an important shift three years ago . hefin david am : okay . so , last question , then : are you absolutely confident that any concerns we are offering are nothing really to worry about ? kirsty williams am : we will need to continue to communicate to all audiences the importance of this and the value of this qualification . but i am confident that the university sector , in its wide variety of forms , regards the welsh baccalaureate qualification as a valuable endeavour for welsh students to undertake , and they certainly don ’ t regard it as a detriment to students . lynne neagle am : okay . siân wants to come in on this , and then i 've got a question from suzy on seren . sian gwenllian am : yes , just that the committee , of course , has been trying to gain evidence on this sector from the universities themselves , but universities wales , which represents the interests of universities in wales , has rejected the committee 's invitation to submit any oral or written evidence . so , can you see the dilemma we 're in ? we are hearing a few things coming from some universities , we hear what you 're saying , but we ca n't get to the root of the matter because the universities themselves are n't willing to come to speak to us . are you also disappointed that they have rejected our invitation to come and speak to us ? hefin david am : where 's the enthusiasm , chair ? where 's the enthusiasm ? sian gwenllian am : and perhaps that 's a sign that they do n't want to be drawn into this argument between the government and us as a committee . kirsty williams am : well , it ’ s a matter for individual universities to decide whether they want to participate in the work of this committee . i would urge them to do so . all welsh universities regard the welsh baccalaureate as an equivalent to a-level , and all universities use it as part of their offer—welsh universities . sian gwenllian am : yes , but you see what our dilemma is , though , because if we can ’ t actually ask them directly , it 's a bit difficult for us to actually probe this and to help move things on ? anyway , i 'll leave it at that . thank you . kirsty williams am : well , it 's a matter for them , and maybe the chair would like to take that up with universities wales . lynne neagle am : we have had quite an extensive dialogue with them about it . suzy on seren . suzy davies am : so , just briefly , you ’ ve said several times that having a welsh bac qualification is an advantage and certainly no detriment , and that it ’ s valued by universities . but advantage isn't the same as equivalence , and we have had evidence from—i think it was cardiff university , again , where they had students with two a-levels and a bac who were actually performing as weaker students . so , even though on the face of it you 've got three a-levels , those particular students are n't matching up to the expectations of a student with three a-levels . i do want to challenge what you said about the students who are involved in the seren network about the baccalaureate being accepted for things like veterinary medicine and medicine itself . we 've had evidence from fe colleges , which are now significant players in producing our seren-style students , if you like , that they are exempting their students from doing the bac because it 's a distraction , effectively . what 's your comment on that ? because if this is a question of communication , which i suspect you 're about to tell me , one of the axioms of good communication is you can have the best marketing in the world , but if the product you 're selling is n't highly valued then you 're actually just doubling the problem . so , can you explain to me why fe is exempting their highest flyers from doing the bac ? kirsty williams am : i think sometimes colleges make the decision that four or five a-levels is of an advantage , and therefore , if you 're asking students to carry that workload , which is a considerable workload , that 's the preferred route for more able and talented students . again , what is quite clear in all the conversations that i have had with russell group universities , including oxford and cambridge , is that this is a myth . what universities tell me they want is not necessarily students with four or five a-levels ; they want students with three really exceptional grades at a-level and a welsh baccalaureate . i think that 's really , really an important message to get across—that it is not necessary to do four or five a-levels if you aspire to go to these russell group universities , or if you decide you want to apply to oxford and cambridge . as i said , in the conversations that we have had—and there is actually some research , and i will let the committee have links to the research . there is some research to suggest that those students who have been involved in project-based work—and , of course , that 's not just the welsh baccalaureate , that would be the epq , which is a qualification that is rapidly gaining traction in england . that is an extended project—research based—qualification , very similar to the individual project element of the welsh baccalaureate . the epq in england is seen as a qualification taken by more able and talented students , and what we see in some of the research that is coming forward is that those students who have engaged in that type of work , project-based work , individual-led , research-based work—those skills are the skills that are really attuned to the nature of university-type work . therefore , that is valued by universities and there is some indication to say that there is a correlation between the students who have undertaken that work and their potential success at undergraduate level . they also tell me that there is a link between , for instance , being able then to use those skills to gain work experience , placements and internships in the private sector and in the world of work , because , as i said , those types of skills are really , really valuable and therefore that 's why they value the qualification . suzy davies am : can i just add— ? it 's great that they 're telling you , why are n't they telling fe ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said , i think it 's really important that fe colleges understand that there is a myth around the fact that these universities are looking for four or five a-levels , and if that 's the reason why then colleges are not allowing students or dissuading students from taking the welsh bac , i think we need to reflect on what 's important to those universities—which is the right a-levels . i think it 's really , really important that students are given the best advice about the a-levels they need to take , facilitating subjects to get into a university , and the value of the skills and knowledge they will acquire through the welsh bac as an assistance to them going forward . </s>
<s> did kirsty williams ' attitude towards the baccalaureate change after the discussion about universities ' views on it ? </s> kirsty williams am : i do n't agree . hefin david am : do you think that that 's a view that 's held within universities , and are you concerned about that ? because it is a view that 's obviously held within cardiff university . kirsty williams am : no ; i would say that that is a view held by an individual in cardiff university— hefin david am : who has influence over students . kirsty williams am : well , that is a view held by an individual in cardiff university . and , actually , cardiff university—indeed , all welsh universities—accept the welsh baccalaureate as an a-level equivalent . i think it is really important to reflect on the wide range of opportunities at higher education that the welsh bac affords individuals . that means that it is deemed as an equivalent to a-level for the vast majority of universities , to get in to some of the most competitive courses , such as dentistry , medicine , veterinary science . so , those courses where we know there 's a high demand and high competition for places , there are institutions that are using that , including cardiff to get into their medical degree . hefin david am : nick brazil , the deputy principal of gower college , said about 50 per cent of the russell group do n't value the welsh bac . kirsty williams am : well , i do n't know where he 's getting that from . i have made it a personal commitment to establish this with universities . i have visited both cambridge and oxford . i spoke again to cambridge , oxford , bath , southampton , st andrews , only last week , who were exhibiting at the seren conference . i specifically took the opportunity to meet with those universities and to talk to them about how they feel about the welsh bac . they have a high regard for the welsh baccalaureate in a variety of ways . first of all , for many of those universities , for many of their courses , they use the welsh bac as an equivalent to an a-level . if they do n't , there are some courses , for instance , where they will lower their offer to gain a place at that university if the welsh bac is passed at a certain level . so , for instance , rather than maybe offering a welsh student a , a , b , they would offer a welsh student a , b , b , plus a welsh bac , thus giving students two opportunities to gain a place at that university , either with or without their welsh bac qualification . even for those universities that do n't use the welsh baccalaureate as a formal part of their offer—and this is the conversation i had again last week with oxford and cambridge—they value it as part of a student 's personal statement ; they value it as part of the interview process in which a student may or may not then be offered a place at that university ; and they also recognise that the skills learnt by students whilst undertaking the welsh baccalaureate are exactly the skills that those students need to make a successful transition from a-level work to university-type work , which , if you can imagine , is very much based on individual research and being able to guide your own learning . so , i just do n't recognise that in some way welsh students are being disadvantaged . the message i get consistently from universities is that there are significant advantages to welsh learners taking this qualification . hefin david am : okay . you can not recognise it , but that is contrary to the evidence that we 've received . i 'm not saying that the evidence is conclusive , but it actually demonstrates inconsistency . so , would you go so far as to accept instead then that there is an inconsistency in the way that universities use the welsh bac as a tool for application ? kirsty williams am : you would know better than anybody , hefin , that universities are autonomous institutions and they set their own methods of entry into those institutions . what i 'm telling you is that the evidence that i have received from universities is that , whilst there is a variety of approaches to how they regard the qualification in terms of offers , consistently , absolutely across the board , all universities tell me that the welsh baccalaureate is a valuable qualification and does not disadvantage welsh students . hefin david am : if the committee were to produce a report based on the evidence we 've received , that would be contrary to what you 've just said . so , i think we 'd end up in a debate in which we are setting out different points of view . so , would you therefore commit to exploring that perspective ? kirsty williams am : hefin , i would argue that i have indeed explored that perspective because i have taken the trouble to find out first-hand—not via my officials , but first-hand—from those institutions , their views . so , this is not something that is hearsay ; i have undertaken to ascertain the views of those universities . we have written to all vice-chancellors—last year—with regard to the welsh baccalaureate qualification . qualifications wales has an individual whose specific job it is to ensure that universities across the united kingdom understand the value of welsh qualifications . that will become increasingly important as we see a divergence between english and welsh qualifications . but i have to say that the evidence that i have from universities is that the welsh baccalaureate , whilst it may be used in different ways in terms of an offer , the consistency from all universities is that it is a valuable qualification . if you 've heard differently from admissions tutors and from the universities officially , rather than from somebody who has e-mailed in , then i would be pleased to look at that evidence , because it would be in stark contrast to what i am being told by universities . lynne neagle am : hefin is not referring to an e-mail— hefin david am : no , i 've said that . lynne neagle am : —we did do a survey and we 've also taken oral evidence . hefin david am : yes , and it 's representing the evidence that we received . kirsty williams am : and i 'm presenting you with the evidence that i 've received . hefin david am : but it will be presented to you as a submission from this committee , no doubt . let 's look at some admissions offers instead then . you do concede that there is inconsistency with how admissions offers are made with regard to the skills challenge certificate . how would you suggest that that is addressed ? kirsty williams am : hefin , each individual institution and university the length and breadth of the uk have different ways in which they make offers to individuals . what is absolutely clear to me , and if the concern is around the type of institution— . so , for instance , it is accepted as a third-grade offer in bristol , edinburgh , exeter , lancaster , leeds , leicester , liverpool , the london school of economics—some of the highest performing universities and russell group universities . it is accepted as a fourth qualification or amends the offer in places like bath university , and it is accepted in tariff-point offers in places like hull and the university of the west of england . so there is a variety of ways in which universities use the qualification , and that is their prerogative—that 's their prerogative as institutions . they will have different ways in which they recruit and how they offer places , just like different universities will have different views on unconditional offers . you know , there 's a difference in universities there , is n't there ? some universities do n't have unconditional offers at all ; other universities— hefin david am : so , what you 're saying is that the problem is n't connected to the welsh bac , it 's connected with just the way that universities make offers , and the welsh bac has got nothing to do with it . kirsty williams am : i ’ m saying there is a variety . just like any other qualification , there is a variety in how universities use qualifications for offers . what i ’ m saying to you is that , in the conversations that i have had with russell group universities , what they say is that there is certainly no detriment to any welsh student undertaking this qualification . they value the qualification . they think it is useful . it develops a set of skills that help students to make that transition into higher education . and therefore , i think it is a myth—i would go as far as to say that it ’ s a myth—that welsh students are disadvantaged in any way by taking this qualification . sorry , andrew . andrew clark : could i just add to that response ? there are , obviously , differences in the way that universities treat the skills challenge certificate and the welsh baccalaureate , which is the prime focus of this . the attitude of the universities has changed significantly since that was a graded qualification . kirsty williams am : yes , that has made a difference . andrew clark : and even those who do not make it part of their offer consider it exceedingly valuable in the way that young people are prepared to go to university and , therefore , as part of their personal statement , as part of their interview , the activity that the young person has taken by means of the skills challenge certificate is definitely recognised , even by those who don ’ t actually make it part of their offer . so , we ’ re still on a journey—that graded qualification has only been taught for a couple of years , but the journey is taking us to the right place , towards the right destination . hefin david am : okay . so , it isn ’ t just about variable admissions practices across universities ; it is to deal with the skills challenge certificate as well , which needed changing in order to improve that . andrew clark : but that was changed in september 2015 . when it was a 'yes'/'no ' qualification , i think they held it in less regard than they do now that it is a graded qualification . kirsty williams am : and that ’ s the conversation we had with some of our russell group universities . andrew clark : and that was an important shift three years ago . hefin david am : okay . so , last question , then : are you absolutely confident that any concerns we are offering are nothing really to worry about ? </s>
<s> what did andrew clark think of the inconsistency with how admission offers were made concerning the skill challenge certificates ? </s> hefin david am : but it will be presented to you as a submission from this committee , no doubt . let 's look at some admissions offers instead then . you do concede that there is inconsistency with how admissions offers are made with regard to the skills challenge certificate . how would you suggest that that is addressed ? andrew clark : could i just add to that response ? there are , obviously , differences in the way that universities treat the skills challenge certificate and the welsh baccalaureate , which is the prime focus of this . the attitude of the universities has changed significantly since that was a graded qualification . kirsty williams am : yes , that has made a difference . </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the universal adoption ? </s> lynne neagle am : actually , it 's your set of questions next on universal adoption . suzy davies am : i 'll try and keep this on the shorter side , if that 's okay , everybody . you say in your evidence that you expect universal adoption , basically , by 2020 , i think it is , or it might be 2019 . what do you think universal adoption actually means ? what does it look like ? does it mean 100 per cent adoption ? kirsty williams am : what is means is that i expect all institutions to be in a position to deliver the welsh baccalaureate . i believe it should be an entitlement to all welsh students to be able to study this qualification , and i believe we should work to the situation where it becomes the norm to take the welsh baccalaureate . i also recognise that in some individual cases , there may be very good reasons why perhaps this is not aligned to the well-being of that particular student . but when i talk about universal adoption , i expect all our institutions to be in a position to deliver the qualification , and i believe it should be an entitlement for welsh students to be able to undertake this qualification . suzy davies am : but not an obligation—that 's the bit i 'm trying to get at . kirsty williams am : i think it should become the norm , and if there are exceptions to that , and there could well be for very legitimate reasons , i think that that flexibility should be allowed . but i think , for those students who are not doing that welsh baccalaureate , there should be evidence as to why that decision has been taken . suzy davies am : okay , so there 's a presumption . i think the performance measures , probably , are likely to sharpen the minds of some school leaders , so i won't pursue that . but can you tell me what lesson you may have learnt from the universal obligation for students to study welsh language in schools when those schools were n't particularly ready to offer a quality course ? kirsty williams am : as we 've rehearsed earlier , it is important that all of our schools and colleges are in a position to deliver this qualification well and deliver a really positive experience to learners . that 's why there is existing support available , and via our new professional learning programmes there will be more support available for teachers to ensure that they have the skills and the confidence to deliver the qualification in a high-quality manner . suzy davies am : okay . well , that 's going to take some time . would you consider pausing the presumption of universal roll-out until you 're absolutely sure that all institutions are able to offer the bac to the quality that you would like to see it delivered ? kirsty williams am : not at this stage . i have no intention of pausing . we have evidence that schools are already delivering the qualification really well— suzy davies am : but you know that we 've had evidence , and you must have as well , that not all schools are doing it . kirsty williams am : what we do know is that some schools struggle to deliver existing qualifications . i do n't know why we would turn round and say that this qualification needs to be stopped when we wouldn't stop other qualifications , and we 'd say , 'well , there we are , we have n't got a 100 per cent guarantee that every single school is delivering this particular qualification especially well , therefore we 're going to denude the opportunity of students to study that particular subject . ' what we 're saying is , 'there is a responsibility on us , on individual schools and on our regional consortia to endure that there is professional learning in place so that all schools are in a position to deliver the qualification well . ' suzy davies am : is n't it irresponsible to ask students to be obliged to take a qualification that 's badly delivered ? kirsty williams am : what is irresponsible is not to invest in professional learning to ensure that all schools are in a position to deliver it well . suzy davies am : okay . well , i agree with you on that , actually , which is why i was a bit confused when you had some in-year additional money in this year 's budget that was being given out to consortia rather than to schools to improve the ability of their teachers to deliver the welsh baccalaureate in certain schools . can you tell me whether the money—i think it was about £5 million that was going to the consortia in-year—will you will offer them suggestions that that is used for improving baccalaureate teaching ? kirsty williams am : the money that is available is going via consortia to schools . individual schools are best placed to understand the professional learning needs of their staff . and if that school understands that they have particular professional learning needs for the welsh baccalaureate , then i would expect the money to be spent on that . where a school is doing the welsh baccalaureate particularly well , then the school might identify other areas where they look to seek improvement . therefore , it is for the individual school to assess the professional learning needs of their staff . we ca n't second-guess that , and therefore it has to be right that school leaders are able to plan the professional learning of their staff accordingly . suzy davies am : i completely accept that and , as i say , it's not for all schools , but bearing in mind we 're facing evidence of polarisation of delivery , i'm just wondering whether there was n't a letter suggesting that they may want to focus on this in the schools that are n't delivering this well at the moment . kirsty williams am : well , again , that 's a conversation to be had between challenge advisors in our regional consortia who are aware of the strengths and weaknesses in individual schools , in conjunction with the leadership of those schools , to discuss how that professional learning money is best spent . there is n't a school that is fantastic at everything , nor is there a school that is not good at anything , if you know what i mean . there are strengths and weaknesses in all schools . it is for the regional consortia , via challenge advisers , and the headteacher , to have that conversation about what the professional learning needs are for that particular school , to ensure that all their teachers , across the length and breadth of the curriculum , are in a position to deliver good-quality lessons . but we ca n't second-guess that . kevin palmer : can i just make a further comment ? i 'll be this afternoon meeting with the regional consortia , estyn , the universities , and the rest of what we call 'the middle tier ' to discuss with them the configuration of a national curriculum for professional learning , premised on the priorities that are emerging from our current work with pioneer schools . and the shifts in pedagogy that you all know is found behind some of these issues , with the delivery of the welsh bac , those shifts in pedagogy are right at the core of the national approach to professional learning—so , things like project-based learning , the kinds of things you talked about today , moving away from a spoon-feeding model , not just for the welsh bac but actually right across the curriculum . the new curriculum requires us to move in these new directions . so , it 's absolutely true to say that each individual school is different , each individual practitioner is different , but we must give the regions and the heis , as it were , a menu of things , and guidance around where there are clearly weaknesses in schools . those weaknesses need to be addressed . suzy davies am : i accept that we 're going forward towards donaldson , and i 'm sure that you will be getting questions on that at some time in the future . i 'm more concerned about this bac that 's been around for 10 years , and there 's still , as far as we can tell from the evidence that we 've had , poor delivery in some schools , where there 's the prospect of obligation on the horizon . that was the thing that was worrying me . anyway , thank you . lynne neagle am : i think the issue of the difference between entitlement and obligation is a very important one and is a concern to students . you were saying it 's an entitlement , not an obligation , but we have had very clear evidence from colleges that some of them are making young people do it , and schools are making young people do it . so , what do you say to those schools that are insisting on their pupils doing the welsh bac at post 16 ? kirsty williams am : as i said , i hope that it becomes the norm that at post-16 level students take the welsh baccalaureate , because i think it is of huge value . there may be circumstances that mean that the well-being of that student could be compromised by making them do this qualification . there could be a whole host of reasons why it is not suitable for a child to take this qualification , and therefore there has to be some flexibility in the system , and we have to trust in the professional leadership of our colleges and our headteachers to make that decision in the round , with the pupil and their parents , about what 's in the best interests of those pupils . but i do think a situation where , perhaps , an entire cohort of students are suddenly deemed it 's unsuitable for , i find that very hard to believe , but there could well be circumstances , for a whole host of reasons , where that particular qualification— . and we would not want to jeopardise the well-being of a student by forcing them to do a qualification that was n't in their best interests , and we need to have the flexibility in the system to allow school leaders to make that decision , but they should also then be accountable for that decision . lynne neagle am : but do you recognise there 's maybe a case for strengthening guidance , then , on this ? because , we 've had teachers tell us that they have insisted on pupils doing this , and then the parents have rung welsh government , and they felt undermined , then . so , do you think there 's a case for strengthening the guidance or clarifying what the position is to schools and colleges ? </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams think of the funding that went to the consortia ? </s> suzy davies am : okay . well , i agree with you on that , actually , which is why i was a bit confused when you had some in-year additional money in this year 's budget that was being given out to consortia rather than to schools to improve the ability of their teachers to deliver the welsh baccalaureate in certain schools . can you tell me whether the money—i think it was about £5 million that was going to the consortia in-year—will you will offer them suggestions that that is used for improving baccalaureate teaching ? </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the mental and emotional health of young people ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay . just one final question from me on this , then . as you know , mental health and the emotional health of our children and young people is a very core issue for this committee , and estyn have said that studying the skills challenge certificate alongside three or four a-levels is a significant factor in causing stress for some young people . how do you respond to that ? </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the effect of the welsh baccalaureate on wider education provisions ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . the next questions are from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : this is about the wider impact of studying the welsh bac on other curriculum subjects and education provision , and we 've had representations in that it is causing some concerns . so , do you have any concerns about the effect that the welsh bac may be having on wider education provisions , such as the narrowing of the curriculum at key stage 4 ? kirsty williams am : no . obviously , schools are responsible for planning their local curriculum offer , and that needs to meet the needs of their learners , and it also needs to meet the needs of the learning and skills ( wales ) measure 2009 . so , there should be a wide variety of choices available . i believe that the skills challenge certificate actually does ensure that there is a broad curriculum and that children are exposed to different learning opportunities . and so , rather than narrowing it , i believe the welsh bac helps us to make sure that there is an expansive curriculum , and that lots of different issues are explored in the skills challenge certificate that ensure not just academic skills are developed , but , actually , knowledge and skills of a wider range of subjects about you and your place in the world is available via this qualification . janet finch-saunders am : okay , thanks . and then , to what extent do you think that the welsh bac should be give priority over other curriculum subjects ? kirsty williams am : well , i do n't think it's— . it should n't be at the expense of other subjects . it should be part of that wide range of opportunities that are afforded to students , and i do n't think it 's more important or less important than other aspects of what we already ask schools to deliver . janet finch-saunders am : what about where we 've taken representations that there 's a lack of capacity in terms of all the extra pressures of studying the welsh bac along with other qualifications ? i went to a school in bangor , and , again , as has been said here , it 's very polarised , the evidence that we 're taking—either some have found it very easy or some , including teachers , have found it extremely difficult to fit everything in , and they do believe that there is a lack of capacity there . kirsty williams am : and the onerous nature and the consequences of workload for teachers is acknowledged by the qualifications wales work and review into the qualification , and that is one of the things that we 're looking to address so that the assessment arrangements and workload implications for teachers are not too onerous . and , if there is any element of duplication—students being asked to do things over and over—then that needs to be addressed as well , and that 's why there is this review by the design group . janet finch-saunders am : okay , thanks . and then , how do you respond to concerns that learners are avoiding studying the welsh bac— where they can , that is—by attending institutions in england or institutions that do not offer welsh-medium provision ? kirsty williams am : well , it 's interesting , is n't it , about where children choose to study and whether they are motivated by the avoidance of the welsh bac ? people make decisions about where to study for a whole host of reasons , and it 's difficult sometimes to quantify what those are . so , for instance , we often hear this along the border that , because— . the geography is not easy , but it can be relatively easy to go across into the english system and therefore you do n't have to do this . now , the reasons for that could be very variable . it could be about the nature of the offer . we know that , in some of our rural schools , the secondary sixth forms are n't able to offer a wide variety of a-levels , and perhaps , by going to a different institution , a larger institution across the way , then you can get that combination of the a-levels you want to do , which simply is n't possible if you do it in your home school . or , we do have some consortia arrangements where a-levels are delivered across a wide variety of schools , which require students to travel . some students do n't want to do that ; they do n't want to do their a-levels in three different schools , but they 'd rather go to an institution where they can do it all under one roof . and that means , sometimes , moving across the border or , in the area i live , children making the decision to go to merthyr college , because its a lovely , beautiful new building , the facilities are absolutely fantastic and a wide variety of a-levels is available under one roof . we looked at , in particular , also , the perception of quality . so , if we take the example of king henry viii school in abergavenny , a school where , in the past , there have been , i think , within the community , some concerns about the quality of that school—whether it 's regarded as a good school . and , from that particular location , you can quite easily get to hereford college—a college that has a fantastic offer , does very , very well and has a beautiful building . what we do , if we look at the tracking of the students who have been retained in king henry viii , as that school has been on its improvement journey and has done better and better and better , the number of students that they are retaining into their sixth form has grown . so , the perception is , 'this is a good school , i 'm going to get a good-quality experience here ' , and more and more students are choosing to stay in that school than perhaps make the decision to travel somewhere else . we also have to recognise that , for some students , staying in the sixth form is n't what they want to do ; they want a different experience , they want to go to an fe college . they want a different experience . so , we have to take into consideration that students could be motivated by a wide variety of subjects , and there 's no hard-and-fast evidence that it is avoidance of the bac that is the sole driver for some of these choices . lynne neagle am : siân , on this . sian gwenllian am : the evidence that we 've had from one of the teaching unions—robust and clear evidence—is that this is happening , that is , that young people are leaving wales to go over the border to schools in england in order to avoid the welsh bac . that 's exactly what was said to us . but you do n't accept that evidence . kirsty williams am : i 'm not saying that i do n't accept it . i 'm saying that i think there are a wide variety of reasons why students make decisions about where to study . i 'm not aware of any comprehensive piece of work that has looked at those motivations , and i think there could be a whole host of reasons why children are deciding to move across the border . perhaps the welsh bac is an easy one to place that hook on , and that 's easier to acknowledge , is n't it , than saying that perhaps students are making that choice for other reasons . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . the next questions , then , are on teacher learning from suzy . suzy davies am : actually , i 've asked the question that i wanted to ask . lynne neagle am : okay , you do n't want to— suzy davies am : by all means you ask the others i had . lynne neagle am : okay . you have referred to training already . the committee 's got two concerns , really . one is about preparedness in ite to teach the welsh bac , so i do n't know if you want to expand on how teachers are being skilled up at that level to deliver the welsh bac effectively . kirsty williams am : in the accreditation process , which has not been without its pain , and some significant decisions made in that regard , the criteria for the ite programmes note that , and i 'm going to quote it : 'teachers should be able to help children and young people to make links across their learning , bringing together different aspects to examine , for example , important topics such as citizenship , enterprise , financial capability and sustainability . ' so , the prime driver for our ite reforms , obviously , is the preparedness for 'successful futures ' , but in preparing our teachers to be in a position to successfully deliver that , those are also the pedagogical principles and that shift in pedagogy that we see aligned to the welsh baccalaureate . so , it is actually a part of the accreditation process that the curriculum that the new ite providers will have to deliver—ensuring that teachers have those skills and have that confidence to be able to deliver their teaching in a way that , as i said , ensures that we successfully deliver on donaldson , but also on the same pedagogical principles that are needed for the successful delivery of the welsh bac . suzy davies am : in the pre-donaldson period , then , bearing in mind what you 've just said , do you expect to see a surge in improvement on how the baccalaureate is taken up by those schools that are currently less keen on it ? kirsty williams am : i hope that we will see increased numbers of students taking the qualification and an increase in the quality of that experience for young people . as we discussed earlier , we 're not just waiting for the new graduates to come out of our ite providers . there 's a whole cohort of the workforce already out there . they should be given an equal opportunity to ensure that they have the skills to deliver on our curriculum reforms and our reform qualifications , and every time the previous government has brought in a reformed qualification there have been specific resources made available to ensure that teachers are in a position to do that . so , when we changed to maths numeracy , a new qualification that was to be examined , there was specific resource made available for the professional learning for teachers to make sure that they were in a position to do that , and that 's exactly the same as the offer that we have available for teachers who are delivering the welsh bac . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . and you 've already said about continuing professional development , that this is going to be a core part of the cpd . is there anything that you want to add on that ? is it going to be fully integrated into the professional learning offer ? kirsty williams am : yes , absolutely . there is already—i do n't want to make the impression that there 's not already support available out there . there is already support out there via regional consortia for professional learning with regard to the welsh baccalaureate . there is existing support available from the wjec with regard to welsh baccalaureate , and it will continue , as we drive forward our national approach to professional learning . and , increasingly , there are interesting ways in which we 're supporting students , so i do n't know if members are aware of the new mooc . the university of bath , one of the russell group universities , delivered a mooc for the extended project qualification in england . lynne neagle am : what 's a mooc ? [ laughter . ] kirsty williams am : so , it is an online—a massive open online course . so , it 's a course that is delivered free of charge , and it 's delivered by information technology . so , the university of bath have done this mooc to support students with the epq . they have just launched , in conjunction with aberystwyth university , a bilingual mooc for the individual project for welsh bac . it 's our understanding it is the first ever welsh-medium mooc , we think ; we 're not aware of any others . and this resource is there for students to give them advice on how they do choose the thesis for their individual project : how do you go about , then , undertaking good independent research ; how do you reference properly , to ensure that you do that correctly ? and we 've seen over 1,000 students already sign up for the mooc . so , increasingly , there are lots and lots of new resources out there for both teachers and students to make the most of . and the fact that bath and aberystwyth have worked together on this , i believe , shows their commitment and a demonstration of their support for this qualification , otherwise why would the university of bath bother , if they were n't interested in it ? </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams think of the students who crossed the border of the welsh and attended institutions that did not offer welsh-medium provision ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : okay , thanks . and then , how do you respond to concerns that learners are avoiding studying the welsh bac— where they can , that is—by attending institutions in england or institutions that do not offer welsh-medium provision ? kirsty williams am : well , it 's interesting , is n't it , about where children choose to study and whether they are motivated by the avoidance of the welsh bac ? people make decisions about where to study for a whole host of reasons , and it 's difficult sometimes to quantify what those are . so , for instance , we often hear this along the border that , because— . the geography is not easy , but it can be relatively easy to go across into the english system and therefore you do n't have to do this . now , the reasons for that could be very variable . it could be about the nature of the offer . we know that , in some of our rural schools , the secondary sixth forms are n't able to offer a wide variety of a-levels , and perhaps , by going to a different institution , a larger institution across the way , then you can get that combination of the a-levels you want to do , which simply is n't possible if you do it in your home school . or , we do have some consortia arrangements where a-levels are delivered across a wide variety of schools , which require students to travel . some students do n't want to do that ; they do n't want to do their a-levels in three different schools , but they 'd rather go to an institution where they can do it all under one roof . and that means , sometimes , moving across the border or , in the area i live , children making the decision to go to merthyr college , because its a lovely , beautiful new building , the facilities are absolutely fantastic and a wide variety of a-levels is available under one roof . we looked at , in particular , also , the perception of quality . so , if we take the example of king henry viii school in abergavenny , a school where , in the past , there have been , i think , within the community , some concerns about the quality of that school—whether it 's regarded as a good school . and , from that particular location , you can quite easily get to hereford college—a college that has a fantastic offer , does very , very well and has a beautiful building . what we do , if we look at the tracking of the students who have been retained in king henry viii , as that school has been on its improvement journey and has done better and better and better , the number of students that they are retaining into their sixth form has grown . so , the perception is , 'this is a good school , i 'm going to get a good-quality experience here ' , and more and more students are choosing to stay in that school than perhaps make the decision to travel somewhere else . we also have to recognise that , for some students , staying in the sixth form is n't what they want to do ; they want a different experience , they want to go to an fe college . they want a different experience . so , we have to take into consideration that students could be motivated by a wide variety of subjects , and there 's no hard-and-fast evidence that it is avoidance of the bac that is the sole driver for some of these choices . lynne neagle am : siân , on this . sian gwenllian am : the evidence that we 've had from one of the teaching unions—robust and clear evidence—is that this is happening , that is , that young people are leaving wales to go over the border to schools in england in order to avoid the welsh bac . that 's exactly what was said to us . but you do n't accept that evidence . </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams think of the teachers ' training for better skills of delivering the baccalaureate ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay . you have referred to training already . the committee 's got two concerns , really . one is about preparedness in ite to teach the welsh bac , so i do n't know if you want to expand on how teachers are being skilled up at that level to deliver the welsh bac effectively . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : now what . project manager : 'kay , hello everybody . uh , i guess you all know what is it about , you all received the email , i guess . uh , we are actually doing this meeting to start a new project which is about designing a remote control . so i 'm going to be the project manager of this uh project . and uh so i 'm present myself . i 'm fabien cardinaux and uh i i guess you can present yourself . so i dunno , you can starts . user interface : industrial designer : okay , so my name is petre . you can call me petre , or peter if you like . i do n't care . project manager : okay . marketing : uh my name 's bob mor . project manager : and you are ? in the project ? industrial designer : uh , in the project i 'm supposed to be the technic . marketing : oh , sorry . 'kay . so my name 's bob morris . i 'm the marketing expert for this project . bob yeah . industrial designer : okay . user interface : my name is hamed getabdar , and uh i 'm going to be interface designer in this project . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so , uh , so today we are doing a short meeting to present the project , so um we are gooding we are going to present the tool we are we are going to use during all this project . we are talking about the project plan , and we are going to to discuss about st our first ideas and so on , and , yeah . so we have around twenty five minutes to do this meeting . um . so what is the goal of this project ? is to design a new remote control . so it should be , of course , new and original , and um it should be trendy , and user friendly . that mean it 's a very challenging project , and uh uh . so w it 's we will try to do our best , and hopefully come with something very new and that people want to buy . so , um so what 's uh what are we going to do during this all this project ? so it 's more like we are going to do inv individual work all in o in o our specialities and we are going to meet each other quite often to discuss and to find a good way . um . yeah and everything is will be like this . um so now we are going to to get used t to to the tools we are going to use all during all this project . so we can try to use uh the whiteboard here . so uh . industrial designer : okay . project manager : for example we can try to write what is our our favourite animal and write the f our favourite characteristics about it . mm . uh . so uh so i will ask you all to do the same . industrial designer : okay . project manager : just to get used to the whiteboard . industrial designer : so probably i would try to try to draw the animal . well sh should i draw the picture of the animal ? project manager : yeah , yeah , you can draw the picture , of course . industrial designer : i i th i think i should . marketing : yeah go ahead . industrial designer : okay , so . um . okay , american , um . um . i would use the bird . so i tried to sketch it out . i had to first uh write it down because i am not absolutely sure if i can draw it , but ah . can you recognise it as a bird ? project manager : marketing : industrial designer : okay it 's your turn to marketing : okay , okay . so i think my favourite animal would be a c a cat . that 's its head . project manager : user interface : marketing : um i probably like cats the most because they 're cuddly and furry and uh playful . project manager : user interface : marketing : okay . user interface : i dunno if i should go with this . industrial designer : oh it 's okay . project manager : marketing : thanks . user interface : if it is enough line . industrial designer : marketing : maybe put it up user interface : i 'm sorry . marketing : put it a maybe put it on the desk or something . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : i should get used to the tool , so . marketing : user interface : okay . industrial designer : oh just wait a little bit . c could we put it here , to make it as straight as possible ? user interface : project manager : industrial designer : ah probably not . user interface : they should be remote . marketing : industrial designer : okay , it it works like this . marketing : uh , that 's better . user interface : okay , thanks . marketing : your lapel microphone 's fallen off . user interface : industrial designer : are you left-handed ? oh , pity . user interface : okay . should i clean ? marketing : user interface : okay , i think like horses uh because they are strong and beautiful , so if i want to write it here , i think i can . oh . marketing : project manager : never mind . industrial designer : ah , it 's maybe better if you leave it . marketing : yeah . yeah . maybe we should just continue . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , do n't worry about it . project manager : , no worry . user interface : okay . industrial designer : you wo n't draw them , or ? project manager : you can draw it , if you want . industrial designer : user interface : i dunno if i can . marketing : industrial designer : just try . i would like to see how it looks like . user interface : okay . industrial designer : user interface : it may be like a cow or i dunno , whatever . project manager : marketing : user interface : i 'm not good very good in drawing . okay , so this is very it 's a bird , i think . i dunno what is it . industrial designer : no , i think it 's clear . user interface : four . okay . mm-hmm . mm . yeah . i 'm shameful project manager : marketing : oh that 's good , it 's good . industrial designer : it 's okay . it 's in it 's indeed beautiful . project manager : good . marketing : yeah , and strong . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : yeah . okay . industrial designer : okay . marketing : user interface : marketing : industrial designer : bob . have to remember it . bob . project manager : so good um so , let 's talk about money . uh we are going to to sell we want to sell uh this remote control for twenty five euro euro . and uh our expected profit will be around fifty million euro . and uh we are trying to to have a market all around the world . so n not only for switzerland , but for the world . uh . so , um . the we expect a production cost of maximum uh twelve point fifty euro . industrial designer : per unit , i guess . project manager : yeah , of course . industrial designer : y oh okay . project manager : um , so we can start today to have a first idea of what we want to do what are our experiments with remote control , and any idea ? so , if you have some experience , good or bad , with remote controls you can share it and say what you f what is your idea . anything . industrial designer : okay . marketing : well , from experience , um i 've had remote controls in the past that have had very they 've had lots and lots of buttons and they 've been very small , and it 's been very hard to to to use , because there 's so many buttons , and you know it 's very hard to see which buttons do what , and the buttons are very small and very hard to press . um and and normally you only every use , you know , on a tv remote you only ever use , mostly , you know , f four or f six buttons . um . so it 's frustrated me in the past , th that . industrial designer : okay , i have also some points uh . maybe two points . uh first would be that in current remote controls there is no back light , so if you are if you are uh playing with this in the dark room it 's it 's probably worth to to have something like uh back light . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and maybe it could be also dependant on the the amount of of light in the room , so that if if it 's in the day it does n't need to be back lighted because it works on the battery , so . so something like this . and the second thing , f second point from me would be that in a normal remote control there is uh there are two buttons for volume control . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but i prefer like a potential-meter or something like . marketing : ah , okay . okay . industrial designer : you know , some slider or project manager : okay . industrial designer : not just two discrete buttons for volume , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay , n industrial designer : but something which project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : is that because the of the discrete volume levels , or is that industrial designer : yeah , but i can reach in uh one second i can mute it down , or or make a high volume . project manager : are you not afraid that if you take your remote control you can move the slide and it could the the volume can go up very quickly marketing : yeah . industrial designer : ah , n . project manager : and it can industrial designer : if it drops to the floor then it starts to scream . project manager : yeah , also if y when you take the the remote control , for example on the table , you take it and you push the button and everything is very loud , and industrial designer : yeah , f it depends what what you feel about that . project manager : you have a heart attack . okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah but we can we can think of these things afterwards , but if you have some more notes on that . project manager : yeah so you can user interface : uh i yeah , project manager : do you have something ? user interface : just a simple experience . i uh i prefer um remote control working with radio waves , because remote control working with infra-red rays you should you should you should keep it in a specific direction and then try it hard to tune . project manager : yeah , that 's true . yeah without obstacles and . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay . let 's continue . i have a meeting in five minutes , so maybe we should hurry . marketing : okay . project manager : um . so we will close uh this meeting . industrial designer : okay , just a second . project manager : so we will have a next meeting in uh thirty minutes . industrial designer : project manager : um . uh . the so i will ask you to do some work . uh the the interface interface developer will work on the on the design of the remote control , start to to have new idea and industrial designer : which i which is hamed , ? project manager : read about industrial designer : okay . marketing : he 's the industrial designer ? no , you 're the industrial designer . industrial designer : uh i am the technical designer , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno which one , uh v . marketing : yeah , project manager : industry and oh . marketing : i think that 's the first . i_d_ . industrial designer . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : and the second one is the user interface designer . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : industrial designer : user interf okay . marketing : and then last one 's marketing , which is me . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay , so i 'm the first one . project manager : so , um for the user interface designer , which is hamed um , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : uh , you are going to work on the technical functions of the remote control . industrial designer : i see . user interface : okay . project manager : and for the marketing uh manager , i dunno , okay , which is bob , uh you are going to try to to find the user requirements f uh for the remote control . um , you will receive by email uh the specific instructions and uh by your personal coach . industrial designer : sign . project manager : yep finished . so i see you in thirty minutes . marketing : great , okay . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay , thanks . marketing : thanks guys . bye . project manager : thank you . </s>
<s> summarize industrial designer 's bad experience of remote control . </s> industrial designer : and maybe it could be also dependant on the the amount of of light in the room , so that if if it 's in the day it does n't need to be back lighted because it works on the battery , so . so something like this . and the second thing , f second point from me would be that in a normal remote control there is uh there are two buttons for volume control . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but i prefer like a potential-meter or something like . marketing : ah , okay . okay . industrial designer : you know , some slider or project manager : okay . industrial designer : not just two discrete buttons for volume , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay , n industrial designer : but something which project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : is that because the of the discrete volume levels , or is that industrial designer : yeah , but i can reach in uh one second i can mute it down , or or make a high volume . project manager : are you not afraid that if you take your remote control you can move the slide and it could the the volume can go up very quickly marketing : yeah . industrial designer : ah , n . project manager : and it can industrial designer : if it drops to the floor then it starts to scream . project manager : yeah , also if y when you take the the remote control , for example on the table , you take it and you push the button and everything is very loud , and </s>
<s> summarize the task allocation for team members . </s> project manager : um . uh . the so i will ask you to do some work . uh the the interface interface developer will work on the on the design of the remote control , start to to have new idea and for the user interface designer , which is hamed um , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : uh , you are going to work on the technical functions of the remote control . industrial designer : i see . user interface : okay . project manager : and for the marketing uh manager , i dunno , okay , which is bob , uh you are going to try to to find the user requirements f uh for the remote control . um , you will receive by email uh the specific instructions and uh by your personal coach . </s>
<s> why does the industrial designer prefer a potential-meter for volume control ? </s> industrial designer : but i prefer like a potential-meter or something like . marketing : ah , okay . okay . industrial designer : you know , some slider or project manager : okay . industrial designer : not just two discrete buttons for volume , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay , n industrial designer : but something which project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : is that because the of the discrete volume levels , or is that </s>
<s> what is project manager 's opinion towards the goal of the new remote control project ? </s> project manager : so , uh , so today we are doing a short meeting to present the project , so um we are gooding we are going to present the tool we are we are going to use during all this project . we are talking about the project plan , and we are going to to discuss about st our first ideas and so on , and , yeah . so we have around twenty five minutes to do this meeting . um . so what is the goal of this project ? is to design a new remote control . so it should be , of course , new and original , and um it should be trendy , and user friendly . that mean it 's a very challenging project , and uh uh . so w it 's we will try to do our best , and hopefully come with something very new and that people want to buy . so , um so what 's uh what are we going to do during this all this project ? so it 's more like we are going to do inv individual work all in o in o our specialities and we are going to meet each other quite often to discuss and to find a good way . um . yeah and everything is will be like this . um so now we are going to to get used t to to the tools we are going to use all during all this project . so we can try to use uh the whiteboard here . so uh . so good um so , let 's talk about money . uh we are going to to sell we want to sell uh this remote control for twenty five euro euro . and uh our expected profit will be around fifty million euro . and uh we are trying to to have a market all around the world . so n not only for switzerland , but for the world . uh . so , um . the we expect a production cost of maximum uh twelve point fifty euro . </s>
<s> summarize the features of remote control which left users with a bad experience . </s> project manager : um , so we can start today to have a first idea of what we want to do what are our experiments with remote control , and any idea ? so , if you have some experience , good or bad , with remote controls you can share it and say what you f what is your idea . anything . industrial designer : okay . marketing : well , from experience , um i 've had remote controls in the past that have had very they 've had lots and lots of buttons and they 've been very small , and it 's been very hard to to to use , because there 's so many buttons , and you know it 's very hard to see which buttons do what , and the buttons are very small and very hard to press . um and and normally you only every use , you know , on a tv remote you only ever use , mostly , you know , f four or f six buttons . um . so it 's frustrated me in the past , th that . industrial designer : okay , i have also some points uh . maybe two points . uh first would be that in current remote controls there is no back light , so if you are if you are uh playing with this in the dark room it 's it 's probably worth to to have something like uh back light . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and maybe it could be also dependant on the the amount of of light in the room , so that if if it 's in the day it does n't need to be back lighted because it works on the battery , so . so something like this . and the second thing , f second point from me would be that in a normal remote control there is uh there are two buttons for volume control . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but i prefer like a potential-meter or something like . marketing : ah , okay . okay . industrial designer : you know , some slider or project manager : okay . industrial designer : not just two discrete buttons for volume , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay , n industrial designer : but something which project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : is that because the of the discrete volume levels , or is that industrial designer : yeah , but i can reach in uh one second i can mute it down , or or make a high volume . project manager : are you not afraid that if you take your remote control you can move the slide and it could the the volume can go up very quickly marketing : yeah . industrial designer : ah , n . project manager : and it can industrial designer : if it drops to the floor then it starts to scream . project manager : yeah , also if y when you take the the remote control , for example on the table , you take it and you push the button and everything is very loud , and industrial designer : yeah , f it depends what what you feel about that . project manager : you have a heart attack . okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah but we can we can think of these things afterwards , but if you have some more notes on that . project manager : yeah so you can user interface : uh i yeah , project manager : do you have something ? user interface : just a simple experience . i uh i prefer um remote control working with radio waves , because remote control working with infra-red rays you should you should you should keep it in a specific direction and then try it hard to tune . project manager : yeah , that 's true . yeah without obstacles and . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> why did remote control with too many buttons frustrated marketing in the past ? </s> project manager : um , so we can start today to have a first idea of what we want to do what are our experiments with remote control , and any idea ? so , if you have some experience , good or bad , with remote controls you can share it and say what you f what is your idea . anything . industrial designer : okay . marketing : well , from experience , um i 've had remote controls in the past that have had very they 've had lots and lots of buttons and they 've been very small , and it 's been very hard to to to use , because there 's so many buttons , and you know it 's very hard to see which buttons do what , and the buttons are very small and very hard to press . um and and normally you only every use , you know , on a tv remote you only ever use , mostly , you know , f four or f six buttons . um . so it 's frustrated me in the past , th that . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor e : let 's see . test ? test ? yeah . ok . grad a : hello ? phd b : channel one . grad a : hello ? phd c : test . professor e : i was saying hynek 'll be here next week , uh , wednesday through friday uh , through saturday , and , um , i wo n't be here thursday and friday . but my suggestion is that , uh , at least for this meeting , people should go ahead , uh , cuz hynek will be here , and , you know , we do n't have any czech accent yet , uh , as far as i know , so there we go . um . so other than reading digits , what 's our agenda ? phd f : i do n't really have , uh , anything new . been working on meeting recorder stuff . so . professor e : ok . um . do you think that would be the case for next week also ? or is is , uh ? what 's your projection on ? cuz the one thing the one thing that seems to me we really should try , if you had n't tried it before , because it had n't occurred to me it was sort of an obvious thing is , um , adjusting the , uh , sca the scaling and , uh , insertion penalty sorta stuff . phd f : i did play with that , actually , a little bit . um . what happens is , uh , when you get to the noisy stuff , you start getting lots of insertions . professor e : right . phd f : and , um , so i 've tried playing around a little bit with , um , the insertion penalties and things like that . professor e : yeah . phd f : um . i mean , it it did n't make a whole lot of difference . like for the well - matched case , it seemed like it was pretty good . um . i could do more playing with that , though . and , uh professor e : but you were looking at mel cepstrum . phd f : and see . yes . professor e : right . phd f : oh , you 're talking about for th for our features . professor e : right . so , i mean , i it it 's not the direction that you were working with that we were saying what 's the uh , what 's the best you can do with with mel cepstrum . but , they raised a very valid point , which , i guess so , to first order i mean , you have other things you were gon na do , but to first order , i would say that the conclusion is that if you , um , do , uh , some monkeying around with , uh , the exact htk training and @ @ { comment } with , uh , you know , how many states and so forth , that it it does n't particularly improve the performance . in other words , that even though it sounds pretty dumb , just applying the same number of states to everything , more or less , no matter what language , is n't so bad . right ? and i guess you had n't gotten to all the experiments you wanted to do with number of gaussians , phd f : right . professor e : but , um , let 's just if we had to if we had to draw a conclusion on the information we have so far , we 'd say something like that . right ? phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : uh , so the next question to ask , which is i think the one that that that andreas was dre addressing himself to in the lunch meeting , is , um , we 're not supposed to adjust the back - end , but anybody using the system would . phd f : yeah . professor e : so , if you were just adjusting the back - end , how much better would you do , uh , in noise ? uh , because the language scaling and insertion penalties and so forth are probably set to be about right for mel cepstrum . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : but , um , they 're probably not at all set right for these things , particularly these things that look over , uh , larger time windows , in one way or another with with lda and klt and neural nets and all these things . in the fa past we 've always found that we had to increase the insertion penalty to to correspond to such things . so , i think that 's , uh , @ @ { comment } that 's kind of a first - order thing that that we should try . phd f : so for th so the experiment is to , um , run our front - end like normal , with the default , uh , insertion penalties and so forth , and then tweak that a little bit and see how much of a difference it makes professor e : so by `` our front - end `` i mean take , you know , the aurora - two s take some version that stephane has that is , you know , our current best version of something . phd f : if we were mm - hmm . professor e : um . i mean , y do n't wan na do this over a hundred different things that they 've tried but , you know , for some version that you say is a good one . you know ? um . how how much , uh , does it improve if you actually adjust that ? but it is interesting . you say you you have for the noisy how about for the for the mismatched or or or or the or the medium mismatched conditions ? have you ? when you adjusted those numbers for mel cepstrum , did it ? phd f : uh , i i do n't remember off the top of my head . um . yeah . i did n't even write them down . i i i do n't remember . i would need to well , i did write down , um so , when i was doing i just wrote down some numbers for the well - matched case . professor e : yeah . phd f : um . looking at the i wrote down what the deletions , substitutions , and insertions were , uh , for different numbers of states per phone . professor e : yeah . phd f : um , but , uh , that that 's all i wrote down . so . i i would yeah . i would need to do that . professor e : ok . so phd f : i can do that for next week . professor e : yeah . and , um yeah . also , eh , eh , sometimes if you run behind on some of these things , maybe we can get someone else to do it and you can supervise or something . but but i think it would be it 'd be good to know that . phd f : ok . i just need to get , um , front - end , uh , stuff from you or you point me to some files that you 've already calculated . phd b : yeah . alright . professor e : ok . uh . phd f : i probably will have time to do that and time to play a little bit with the silence model . professor e : mm - hmm . phd f : so maybe i can have that for next week when hynek 's here . professor e : yeah . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : yeah . cuz , i mean , the the other that , in fact , might have been part of what , uh , the difference was at least part of it that that we were seeing . remember we were seeing the sri system was so much better than the tandem system . part of it might just be that the sri system , they they they always adjust these things to be sort of optimized , phd f : is there ? professor e : and phd f : i wonder if there 's anything that we could do to the front - end that would affect the insertion professor e : yes . i think you can . phd f : what could you do ? professor e : well , um uh , part of what 's going on , um , is the , uh , the range of values . so , if you have something that has a much smaller range or a much larger range , and taking the appropriate root . phd f : oh . mm - hmm . professor e : you know ? if something is kind of like the equivalent of a bunch of probabilities multiplied together , you can take a root of some sort . if it 's like seven probabilities together , you can take the seventh root of it or something , or if it 's in the log domain , divide it by seven . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : but but , um , that has a similar effect because it changes the scale of the numbers of the differences between different candidates from the acoustic model phd f : oh , right . professor e : as opposed to what 's coming from the language model . phd f : so that w right . so , in effect , that 's changing the value of your insertion penalty . professor e : yeah . i mean , it 's more directly like the the language scaling or the , uh the model scaling or acoustic scaling , phd f : that 's interesting . professor e : but you know that those things have kind of a similar effect to the insertion penalty phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : anyway . they 're a slightly different way of of handling it . phd f : right . professor e : so , um phd f : so if we know what the insertion penalty is , then we can get an idea about what range our number should be in , professor e : i think so . phd f : so that they match with that . professor e : yeah . yeah . so that 's why i think that 's another reason other than curiosity as to why i it would in fact be kinda neat to find out if we 're way off . i mean , the other thing is , are are n't we seeing ? y y phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : i 'm sure you 've already looked at this bu in these noisy cases , are ? we are seeing lots of insertions . right ? the insertion number is quite high ? phd b : yeah . professor e : i know the vad takes pre care of part of that , phd f : yeah . phd b : yeah . professor e : but phd f : i 've seen that with the mel cepstrum . i do n't i do n't know about the aurora front - end , but phd b : i think it 's much more balanced with , uh when the front - end is more robust . yeah . i could look at it at this . yeah . mm - hmm . professor e : yeah . wha - what 's a typical number ? phd b : i do n't i do n't know . professor e : do we ? oh , you oh , you do n't know . phd b : i do n't have this in professor e : ok . i 'm sure it 's more balanced , phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : but it it it would n't surprise me if there 's still phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : i mean , in in the the the old systems we used to do , i i uh , i remember numbers kind of like insertions being half the number of deletions , as being and both numbers being tend to be on the small side comparing to to , uh , substitutions . phd b : mm - hmm . phd f : well , this the whole problem with insertions was what i think , um , we talked about when the guy from ogi came down that one time and and that was when people were saying , well we should have a , uh , uh , voice activity detector professor e : right . phd f : that , because all that stuff { comment } that we 're getting thr the silence that 's getting through is causing insertions . so . professor e : right . phd f : i 'll bet you there 's still a lot of insertions . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : yeah . and it may be less of a critical thing . i mean , the fact that some get by may be less of a critical thing if you , uh , get things in the right range . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : so , i mean , the insertions is is a symptom . it 's a symptom that there 's something , uh , wrong with the range . phd f : right . professor e : but there 's uh , your your your substitutions tend to go up as well . so , uh , i i i think that , phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : uh , the most obvious thing is just the insertions , @ @ . but uh um . if you 're operating in the wrong range i mean , that 's why just in general , if you change what these these penalties and scaling factors are , you reach some point that 's a that 's a minimum . so . um . um . we do have to do well over a range of different conditions , some of which are noisier than others . um . but , um , i think we may get a better handle on that if we if we see um , i mean we ca it 's if we actually could pick a a a more stable value for the range of these features , it , um , uh , could uh even though it 's it 's it 's true that in a real situation you can in fact adjust the these these scaling factors in the back - end , and it 's ar artificial here that we 're not adjusting those , you certainly do n't wan na be adjusting those all the time . and if you have a nice front - end that 's in roughly the right range i remember after we got our stuff more or less together in the previous systems we built , that we tended to set those scaling factors at kind of a standard level , and we would rarely adjust them again , even though you could get a phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : for an evaluation you can get an extra point or something if you tweaked it a little bit . but , once we knew what rou roughly the right operating range was , it was pretty stable , and uh , we might just not even be in the right operating range . phd f : so , would the ? uh , would a good idea be to try to map it into the same range that you get in the well - matched case ? so , if we computed what the range was in well - matched , and then when we get our noisy conditions out we try to make it have the same range as ? professor e : no . you do n't wan na change it for different conditions . no . no . i i i what what i 'm saying phd f : oh , i was n't suggesting change it for different conditions . i was just saying that when we pick a range , we we wan na pick a range that we map our numbers into professor e : yeah . phd f : we should probably pick it based on the range that we get in the well - matched case . otherwise , i mean , what range are we gon na choose to to map everything into ? professor e : well . it depends how much we wan na do gamesmanship and how much we wan na do i mean , i if he it to me , actually , even if you wan na be play on the gamesmanship side , it can be kinda tricky . so , i mean , what you would do is set the set the scaling factors , uh , so that you got the best number for this point four five times the you know , and so on . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : but they might change that those weightings . phd f : yeah . professor e : um . so uh i just sorta think we need to explore the space . just take a look at it a little bit . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : and we we we may just find that that we 're way off . phd f : ok . mm - hmm . professor e : maybe we 're not . you know ? as for these other things , it may turn out that , uh , it 's kind of reasonable . but then i mean , andreas gave a very reasonable response , and he 's probably not gon na be the only one who 's gon na say this in the future of , you know , people people within this tight - knit community who are doing this evaluation are accepting , uh , more or less , that these are the rules . but , people outside of it who look in at the broader picture are certainly gon na say `` well , wait a minute . you 're doing all this standing on your head , uh , on the front - end , phd f : yeah . professor e : when all you could do is just adjust this in the back - end with one s one knob . `` phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : and so we have to at least , i think , determine that that 's not true , which would be ok , or determine that it is true , in which case we want to adjust that and then continue with with what we 're doing . and as you say as you point out finding ways to then compensate for that in the front - end also then becomes a priority for this particular test , phd f : right . professor e : and saying you do n't have to do that . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : so . ok . so , uh what 's new with you ? phd b : uh . so there 's nothing new . um . professor e : uh , what 's old with you that 's developed ? phd b : i 'm sorry ? professor e : you ok . what 's old with you that has developed over the last week or two ? phd b : mmm . well , so we 've been mainly working on the report and and yeah . phd f : mainly working on what ? phd b : on the report of the work that was already done . um . mm - hmm . that 's all . phd f : how about that ? any - anything new on the thing that , uh , you were working on with the , uh ? phd c : i do n't have results yet . phd f : no results ? yeah . professor e : what was that ? phd f : the the , uh , grad a : voicing thing . phd f : voicing detector . professor e : i mean , what what 's what 's going on now ? what are you doing ? phd c : uh , to try to found , nnn , robust feature for detect between voice and unvoice . and we w we try to use the variance of the es difference between the fft spectrum and mel filter bank spectrum . professor e : yeah . phd c : uh , also the another parameter is relates with the auto - correlation function . professor e : uh - huh . phd c : r - ze energy and the variance a also of the auto - correlation function . professor e : uh - huh . so , that 's yeah . that 's what you were describing , i guess , a week or two ago . phd c : yeah . but we do n't have res we do n't have result of the auro for aurora yet . we need to train the neural network professor e : mm - hmm . phd c : and professor e : so you 're training neural networks now ? phd c : no , not yet . professor e : so , what wha wh wha what what 's going on ? phd c : well , we work in the report , too , because we have a lot of result , professor e : uh - huh . phd c : they are very dispersed , and was necessary to to look in all the directory to to to give some more structure . professor e : so . b so yeah . i if i can summarize , basically what 's going on is that you 're going over a lot of material that you have generated in furious fashion , f generating many results and doing many experiments and trying to pull it together into some coherent form to be able to see wha see what happens . phd c : hm - hmm . phd b : uh , y yeah . basically we we 've stopped , uh , experimenting , i mean . we 're just writing some kind of technical report . and phd f : is this a report that 's for aurora ? or is it just like a tech report for icsi , phd b : yeah . phd c : for icsi . phd f : or ? ah . i see . phd b : yeah . phd c : just summary of the experiment and the conclusion and something like that . professor e : yeah . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : ok . so , my suggestion , though , is that you you not necessarily finish that . but that you put it all together so that it 's you 've got you 've got a clearer structure to it . you know what things are , you have things documented , you 've looked things up that you needed to look up . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : so that , you know so that such a thing can be written . and , um when when when do you leave again ? phd c : uh , in july . first of july . professor e : first of july ? ok . and that you figure on actually finishing it in in june . because , you know , you 're gon na have another bunch of results to fit in there anyway . phd b : mm - hmm . phd c : mm - hmm . professor e : and right now it 's kind of important that we actually go forward with experiments . phd c : it 's not . professor e : so so , i i think it 's good to pause , and to gather everything together and make sure it 's in good shape , so that other people can get access to it and so that it can go into a report in june . but i think to to really work on on fine - tuning the report n at this point is is probably bad timing , i i think . phd b : mm - hmm . yeah . well , we did n't we just planned to work on it one week on this report , not no more , anyway . um . professor e : but you ma you may really wan na add other things later anyway phd b : yeah . mm - hmm . professor e : because you there 's more to go ? phd b : yeah . well , so i do n't know . there are small things that we started to to do . but phd f : are you discovering anything , uh , that makes you scratch your head as you write this report , like why did we do that , or why did n't we do this , or ? phd b : yeah . yeah . and actually , there were some tables that were also with partial results . we just noticed that , wh while gathering the result that for some conditions we did n't have everything . but anyway . um . yeah , yeah . we have , yeah , extracted actually the noises from the speechdat - car . and so , we can train neural network with speech and these noises . um . it 's difficult to say what it will give , because when we look at the aurora the ti - digits experiments , um , they have these three conditions that have different noises , and apparently this system perform as well on the seen noises on the unseen noises and on the seen noises . but , i think this is something we have to try anyway . so adding the noises from from the speechdat - car . um . professor e : that 's that 's , uh that 's permitted ? phd b : uh . well , ogi does did that . um . at some point they did that for for the voice activity detector . phd c : uh , for a v vad . phd b : right ? um . phd f : could you say it again ? what what exactly did they do ? phd b : they used some parts of the , um , italian database to train the voice activity detector , i think . it professor e : yeah . i guess the thing is yeah . i guess that 's a matter of interpretation . the rules as i understand it , is that in principle the italian and the spanish and the english no , italian and the finnish and the english ? were development data phd b : yeah . and spanish , yeah . professor e : on which you could adjust things . and the and the german and danish were the evaluation data . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : and then when they finally actually evaluated things they used everything . phd b : yeah . that 's right . uh professor e : so uh , and it is true that the performance , uh , on the german was i mean , even though the improvement was n't so good , the pre the raw performance was really pretty good . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : so and , uh , it it does n't appear that there 's strong evidence that even though things were somewhat tuned on those three or four languages , that that going to a different language really hurt you . and the noises were not exactly the same . right ? because it was taken from a different , uh i mean they were different drives . phd b : different cars . yeah . professor e : i mean , it was it was actual different cars and so on . phd b : yeah . professor e : so . um , it 's somewhat tuned . it 's tuned more than , you know , a a a a phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : you 'd really like to have something that needed no particular noise at all , maybe just some white noise or something like that a at most . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : but that 's not really what this contest is . so . um , i guess it 's ok . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : that 's something i 'd like to understand before we actually use something from it , phd f : i think it 's professor e : because it would phd f : it 's probably something that , mmm , the you know , the , uh , experiment designers did n't really think about , because i think most people are n't doing trained systems , or , you know , uh , systems that are like ours , where you actually use the data to build models . i mean , they just doing signal - processing . phd b : yeah . professor e : well , it 's true , except that , uh , that 's what we used in aurora one , and then they designed the things for aurora - two knowing that we were doing that . phd f : yeah . that 's true . and they did n't forbid us right ? to build models on the data ? professor e : no . but , i think i think that it it it probably would be the case that if , say , we trained on italian , uh , data and then , uh , we tested on danish data and it did terribly , uh , that that it would look bad . and i think someone would notice and would say `` well , look . this is not generalizing . `` i would hope tha i would hope they would . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : um . but , uh , it 's true . you know , maybe there 's parameters that other people have used you know , th that they have tuned in some way for other things . so it 's it 's , uh we should we should maybe that 's maybe a topic especially if you talk with him when i 'm not here , that 's a topic you should discuss with hynek phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : to , you know , double check it 's ok . phd f : do we know anything about the speakers for each of the , uh , training utterances ? phd b : what do you mean ? we we phd f : do you have speaker information ? professor e : social security number phd f : that would be good . phd b : like , we have male , female , phd f : bank pin . phd b : at least . phd f : just male f female ? professor e : what kind of information do you mean ? phd f : well , i was thinking about things like , you know , gender , uh you know , gender - specific nets and , uh , vocal tract length normalization . phd b : mm - hmm . phd f : things like that . i d i do n't i did n't know what information we have about the speakers that we could try to take advantage of . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : hmm . uh . right . i mean , again , i if you had the whole system you were optimizing , that would be easy to see . but if you 're supposedly just using a fixed back - end and you 're just coming up with a feature vector , w w i 'm not sure i mean , having the two nets suppose you detected that it was male , it was female you come up with different phd f : well , you could put them both in as separate streams or something . uh . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : maybe . phd f : i do n't know . i was just wondering if there was other information we could exploit . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : hmm . yeah , it 's an interesting thought . maybe having something along the i mean , you ca n't really do vocal tract normalization . but something that had some of that effect phd f : yeah . professor e : being applied to the data in some way . phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : do you have something simple in mind for i mean , vocal tract length normalization ? phd f : uh no . i had n't i had n't thought it was thought too much about it , really . it just something that popped into my head just now . and so i i i mean , you could maybe use the ideas a similar idea to what they do in vocal tract length normalization . you know , you have some sort of a , uh , general speech model , you know , maybe just a mixture of gaussians that you evaluate every utterance against , and then you see where each , you know , utterance like , the likelihood of each utterance . you divide the the range of the likelihoods up into discrete bins and then each bin 's got some knob uh , setting . professor e : yeah . but just listen to yourself . i mean , that uh really does n't sound like a real - time thing with less than two hundred milliseconds , uh , latency that and where you 're not adjusting the statistical engine at all . phd f : yeah . yeah . phd b : mm - hmm . phd f : yeah . that 's true . professor e : you know , that just phd f : right . professor e : i mean yeah . phd f : could be expensive . professor e : no . well not just expensive . i i i do n't see how you could possibly do it . you ca n't look at the whole utterance and do anything . you know , you can only right ? each frame comes in and it 's got ta go out the other end . phd f : right . professor e : so , uh phd f : right . so whatever it was , it would have to be uh sort of on a per frame basis . professor e : yeah . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : yeah . i mean , you can do , um fairly quickly you can do male female f male female stuff . phd f : yeah . yeah . professor e : but as far as , i mean like i thought bbn did a thing with , uh , uh , vocal tract normalization a ways back . maybe other people did too . with with , uh , uh , l trying to identify third formant average third formant using that as an indicator of phd f : i do n't know . professor e : so . you know , third formant i if you imagine that to first order what happens with , uh , changing vocal tract is that , uh , the formants get moved out by some proportion phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : so , if you had a first formant that was one hundred hertz before , if the fifty if the vocal tract is fifty percent shorter , then it would be out at seven fifty hertz , and so on . so , that 's a move of two hundred fifty hertz . whereas the third formant which might have started off at twenty - five hundred hertz , you know , might be out to thirty - seven fifty , you know so it 's at so , although , you frequently get less distinct higher formants , it 's still third formant 's kind of a reasonable compromise , and phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : so , i think , eh , if i recall correctly , they did something like that . and and but um , that does n't work for just having one frame or something . phd f : yeah . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : you know ? that 's more like looking at third formant over over a turn or something like that , phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : and phd f : right . professor e : um . so . but on the other hand , male female is a is a is a much simpler categorization than figuring out a a factor to , uh , squish or expand the the spectrum . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : so , um . y you could imagine that i mean , just like we 're saying voiced - unvoiced is good to know uh , male female is good to know also . um . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : but , you 'd have to figure out a way to to to , uh , incorporate it on the fly . uh , i mean , i guess , as you say , one thing you could do is simply , uh , have the the male and female output vectors you know , tr nets trained only on males and n trained only on females or or , uh , you know . but um . i do n't know if that would really help , because you already have males and females and it 's mm - hmm putting into one net . so is it ? phd f : is it balanced , um , in terms of gender the data ? professor e : do you know ? phd b : almost , yeah . mm - hmm . professor e : hmm . ok . y you 're you were saying before ? phd b : uh . yeah . so , this noise , um yeah . the msg um . mmm . there is something perhaps , i could spend some days to look at this thing , cuz it seems that when we train networks on let 's say , on timit with msg features , they they look as good as networks trained on plp . but , um , when they are used on on the speechdat - car data , it 's not the case oh , well . the msg features are much worse , and so maybe they 're , um , less more sensitive to different recording conditions , or shou professor e : should n't be . they should be less so . phd b : yeah . but professor e : r right ? wh - ? but let me ask you this . what what 's the , um ? do you kno recall if the insertions were were higher with msg ? phd b : i do n't know . i can not tell . but it 's it the the error rate is higher . so , i don professor e : yeah . but you should always look at insertions , deletions , and substitutions . phd b : yeah . mm - hmm . professor e : so phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : so , uh msg is very , very dif eh , plp is very much like mel cepstrum . msg is very different from both of them . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : so , if it 's very different , then this is the sort of thing i mean i 'm really glad andreas brought this point up . i sort of had forgotten to discuss it . um . you always have to look at how this uh , these adjustments , uh , affect things . and even though we 're not allowed to do that , again we maybe could reflect that back to our use of the features . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : so if it if in fact , uh the problem might be that the range of the msg features is quite different than the range of the plp or mel cepstrum . phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor e : and you might wan na change that . phd b : but yeah . but , it 's d it 's after well , it 's tandem features , so mmm . professor e : yeah . phd b : yeah . we we have estimation of post posteriors with plp and with msg as input , professor e : yeah . phd b : so i don well . i do n't know . professor e : that means they 're between zero and one . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : but i it it it it does n't necessarily you know , they could be , um do - does n't tell you what the variance of the things is . phd b : mmm . mm - hmm . professor e : right ? cuz if you 're taking the log of these things , it could be , uh knowing what the sum of the probabilities are , does n't tell you what the sum of the logs are . phd b : mm - hmm . yeah . yeah . so we should look at the likelihood , or or what ? or well , at the log , perhaps , and professor e : yeah . yeah . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : or what you know , what you 're uh the thing you 're actually looking at . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : so your your the values that are are actually being fed into htk . phd b : mm - hmm . but professor e : what do they look like ? phd f : no and so th the , uh for the tandem system , the values that come out of the net do n't go through the sigmoid . right ? they 're sort of the pre - nonlinearity values ? professor e : right . so they 're kinda like log probabilities is what i was saying . phd f : and those ok . and tho that 's what goes into htk ? professor e : uh , almost . but then you actually do a klt on them . um . they are n't normalized after that , are they ? phd b : mmm . no , they are not no . professor e : no . ok . so , um . right . so the question is yeah . whatever they are at that point , um , are they something for which taking a square root or cube root or fourth root or something like that is is gon na be a good or a bad thing ? so . phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : uh , and that 's something that nothing nothing else after that is gon na uh , things are gon na scale it uh , you know , subtract things from it , scale it from it , but nothing will have that same effect . um . so . um . anyway , eh phd f : yeah . cuz if if the log probs that are coming out of the msg are really big , the standard insertion penalty is gon na have very little effect professor e : well , the right . phd f : compared to , you know , a smaller set of log probs . professor e : yeah . no . again you do n't really look at that . it 's something that , and then it 's going through this transformation that 's probably pretty close to it 's , eh , whatever the klt is doing . but it 's probably pretty close to what a a a discrete cosine transformation is doing . phd f : yeah . professor e : but still it 's it 's not gon na probably radically change the scale of things . i would think . and , uh yeah . it may be entirely off and and it may be at the very least it may be quite different for msg than it is for mel cepstrum or plp . so that would be so the first thing i 'd look at without adjusting anything would just be to go back to the experiment and look at the , uh , substitutions , insertions , and deletions . and if the if the , uh i if there 's a fairly large effect of the difference , say , uh , uh , the r ratio between insertions and deletions for the two cases then that would be , uh , an indicator that it might might be in that direction . phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yeah . but , professor e : anything else ? phd b : my my point was more that it it works sometimes and but sometimes it does n't work . professor e : yeah . well . phd b : and it works on ti - digits and on speechdat - car it does n't work , and professor e : yeah . phd b : mm - hmm . yeah . well . professor e : but , you know , some problems are harder than others , phd b : mm - hmm . yeah . professor e : and and , uh , sometimes , you know , there 's enough evidence for something to work and then it 's harder , it breaks . you know , phd b : mm - hmm . professor e : so it 's but it but , um , i it it could be that when you say it works maybe we could be doing much better , even in ti - digits . right ? phd b : yeah . yeah , sure . professor e : hmm ? yeah . phd b : yeah . well , there is also the spectral subtraction , which , um i think maybe we should , uh , try to integrate it in in our system . professor e : yeah . phd b : mmm . mm - hmm . professor e : right . phd b : i think that would involve to to mmm use a big a al already a big bunch of the system of ericsson . because he has spectral subtraction , then it 's followed by , um , other kind of processing that 's are dependent on the uh , if it 's speech or noi or silence . professor e : mm - hmm . phd b : and there is this kind of spectral flattening after if it 's silence , and and s i i think it 's important , um , to reduce this musical noise and this this increase of variance during silence portions . so . well . this was in this would involve to take almost everything from from the this proposal and and then just add some kind of on - line normalization in in the neural network . mmm . professor e : ok . well , this 'll be , i think , something for discussion with hynek next week . phd b : yeah . mm - hmm . professor e : yeah . ok . right . so . how are , uh , uh how are things going with what you 're doing ? grad d : oh . well , um , i took a lot of time just getting my taxes out of the way multi - national taxes . so , i 'm i 'm starting to write code now for my work but i do n't have any results yet . um , i it would be good for me to talk to hynek , i think , when he 's here . professor e : yeah . grad d : do you know what his schedule will be like ? professor e : uh , he 'll be around for three days . grad d : ok . so , y professor e : uh , we 'll have a lot of time . so , uh um . i 'll , uh you know , he 's he 'll he 'll be talking with everybody in this room so . phd f : but you said you wo n't you wo n't be here next thursday ? professor e : not thursday and friday . yeah . cuz i will be at faculty retreat . so . i 'll try to connect with him and people as as i can on on wednesday . but um . oh , how 'd taxes go ? taxes go ok ? grad d : mmm . yeah . professor e : yeah . oh , good . yeah . yeah . that 's just that 's that 's one of the big advantages of not making much money is the taxes are easier . yeah . phd f : unless you 're getting money in two countries . professor e : i think you are . are n't you ? phd f : they both want their cut . grad d : hmm . yeah . phd f : right ? professor e : yeah . yeah . huh . canada w canada wants a cut ? grad d : mm - hmm . professor e : have to do so you you have to do two returns ? grad d : mmm . w uh , for two thousand i did . yeah . professor e : oh , oh . yeah . for tw that 's right , ju phd f : but not for this next year ? professor e : two thousand . yeah . probably not this next year , i guess . yeah . yeah . grad d : uh , i 'll i 'll still have a bit of canadian income but it 'll be less complicated because i will not be a considered a resident of canada anymore , so i wo n't have to declare my american income on my canadian return . professor e : ok . alright . uh . barry , do you wan na say something about your stuff here ? grad a : oh , um . right . i just , um , continuing looking at , uh , ph uh , phonetic events , and , uh , this tuesday gon na be , uh , meeting with john ohala with chuck to talk some more about these , uh , ph um , phonetic events . um , came up with , uh , a plan of attack , uh , gon na execute , and um yeah . it 's that 's pretty much it . professor e : oh , well . no um , why do n't you say something about what it is ? grad a : oh , you oh , you want you want details . hmm . ok . professor e : well , we 're all gathered here together . i thought we 'd , you know grad a : i was hoping i could wave my hands . um . so , um . so , once wa i i was thinking getting getting us a set of acoustic events to um , to be able to distinguish between , uh , phones and words and stuff . and um , once we we would figure out a set of these events that can be , you know , um , hand - labeled or or derived , uh , from h the hand - labeled phone targets . um , we could take these events and , um , do some cheating experiments , um , where we feed , um , these events into an sri system , um , eh , and evaluate its performance on a switchboard task . uh , yeah . grad d : hey , barry ? can you give an example of an event ? grad a : yeah . sure . um , i i can give you an example of twenty - odd events . um so , he in this paper , um , it 's talking about phoneme recognition using acoustic events . so , things like frication or , uh , nasality . professor e : whose paper is it ? grad a : um , this is a paper by hubener and cardson benson bernds - berndsen . professor e : yeah . huh . from , uh , university of hamburg and bielefeld . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : yeah . i think the just to expand a little bit on the idea of acoustic event . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : there 's , um in my mind , anyways , there 's a difference between , um , acoustic features and acoustic events . and i think of acoustic features as being , um , things that linguists talk about , like , um professor e : so , stuff that 's not based on data . phd f : stuff that 's not based on data , necessarily . professor e : yeah . oh , ok . yeah . yeah , ok . phd f : right . that 's not based on , you know , acoustic data . so they talk about features for phones , like , uh , its height , grad a : yeah . phd f : its tenseness , laxness , things like that , grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : which may or may not be all that easy to measure in the acoustic signal . versus an acoustic event , which is just some something in the acoustic signal that is fairly easy to measure . um . so it 's , um it 's a little different , in at least in my mind . professor e : i mean , when we did the spam work i mean , there we had we had this notion of an , uh , auditory @ @ { comment } auditory event . grad a : good . that 's great . professor e : and , uh , um , called them `` avents `` , uh , uh , uh , with an a at the front . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : uh . and the the the idea was something that occurred that is important to a bunch of neurons somewhere . so . grad a : mm - hmm . professor e : um . a sudden change or a relatively rapid change in some spectral characteristic will will do sort of this . i mean , there 's certainly a bunch of a bunch of places where you know that neurons are gon na fire because something novel has happened . that was that was the main thing that we were focusing on there . but there 's certainly other things beyond what we talked about there that are n't just sort of rapid changes , but phd f : it 's kinda like the difference between top - down and bottom - up . professor e : yeah . phd f : i think of the acoustic you know , phonetic features as being top - down . you know , you look at the phone and you say this phone is supposed to be you know , have this feature , this feature , and this feature . whether tha those features show up in the acoustic signal is sort of irrelevant . whereas , an acoustic event goes the other way . here 's the signal . here 's some event . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : what ? and then that you know , that may map to this phone sometimes , and sometimes it may not . it just depen maybe depends on the context , things like that . professor e : mm - hmm . phd f : and so it 's sort of a different way of looking . professor e : mm - hmm . grad a : yeah . so . yeah . mm - hmm . um using these these events , um , you know , we can we can perform these these , uh , cheating experiments . see how how how good they are , um , in , um in terms of phoneme recognition or word recognition . and , um and then from that point on , i would , uh , s design robust event detectors , um , in a similar , um , wa spirit that saul has done w uh , with his graphical models , and this this probabilistic and - or model that he uses . um , eh , try to extend it to , um to account for other other phenomena like , um , cmr co - modulation release . and , um and maybe also investigate ways to to modify the structure of these models , um , in a data - driven way , uh , similar to the way that , uh , jeff jeff , uh , bilmes did his work . um , and while i 'm i 'm doing these , um , event detectors , you know , i can ma mea measure my progress by comparing , um , the error rates in clean and noisy conditions to something like , uh , neural nets . um , and so so , once we have these these , uh , event detectors , um , we could put them together and and feed the outputs of the event detectors into into the sri , um , hmm hmm system , and , um and test it on on switchboard or , um , maybe even aurora stuff . and , that 's pretty much the the big picture of of um , the plan . professor e : by the way , um , there 's , uh , a couple people who are gon na be here i forget if i already told you this , but , a couple people who are gon na be here for six months . grad a : mm - hmm . professor e : uh uh , there 's a professor kollmeier , uh , from germany who 's , uh , uh , quite big in the , uh , hearing - aid signal - processing area and , um , michael kleinschmidt , who 's worked with him , who also looks at auditory properties inspired by various , uh , brain function things . so , um , um , i think they 'll be interesting to talk to , in this sort of issue as these detectors are are , uh , developing . grad a : hmm . ok . professor e : so , he looks at interesting interesting things in in the different ways of looking at spectra in order to to get various speech properties out . so . ok . well , short meeting , but that 's ok . and , uh , we might as well do our digits . and like i say , i i encourage you to go ahead and meet , uh , next week with , uh , uh , hynek . alright , i 'll i 'll start . it 's , uh , one thirty - five . seventeen ok </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on the tax return </s> professor e : yeah . ok . right . so . how are , uh , uh how are things going with what you 're doing ? grad d : oh . well , um , i took a lot of time just getting my taxes out of the way multi - national taxes . so , i 'm i 'm starting to write code now for my work but i do n't have any results yet . um , i it would be good for me to talk to hynek , i think , when he 's here . professor e : yeah . grad d : do you know what his schedule will be like ? professor e : uh , he 'll be around for three days . grad d : ok . so , y professor e : uh , we 'll have a lot of time . so , uh um . i 'll , uh you know , he 's he 'll he 'll be talking with everybody in this room so . phd f : but you said you wo n't you wo n't be here next thursday ? professor e : not thursday and friday . yeah . cuz i will be at faculty retreat . so . i 'll try to connect with him and people as as i can on on wednesday . but um . oh , how 'd taxes go ? taxes go ok ? grad d : mmm . yeah . professor e : yeah . oh , good . yeah . yeah . that 's just that 's that 's one of the big advantages of not making much money is the taxes are easier . yeah . phd f : unless you 're getting money in two countries . professor e : i think you are . are n't you ? phd f : they both want their cut . grad d : hmm . yeah . phd f : right ? professor e : yeah . yeah . huh . canada w canada wants a cut ? grad d : mm - hmm . professor e : have to do so you you have to do two returns ? grad d : mmm . w uh , for two thousand i did . yeah . professor e : oh , oh . yeah . for tw that 's right , ju phd f : but not for this next year ? professor e : two thousand . yeah . probably not this next year , i guess . yeah . yeah . </s>
<s> what did grad d think about the tax return ? </s> grad d : oh . well , um , i took a lot of time just getting my taxes out of the way multi - national taxes . so , i 'm i 'm starting to write code now for my work but i do n't have any results yet . um , i it would be good for me to talk to hynek , i think , when he 's here . professor e : yeah . grad d : do you know what his schedule will be like ? professor e : uh , he 'll be around for three days . grad d : ok . so , y professor e : uh , we 'll have a lot of time . so , uh um . i 'll , uh you know , he 's he 'll he 'll be talking with everybody in this room so . phd f : but you said you wo n't you wo n't be here next thursday ? professor e : not thursday and friday . yeah . cuz i will be at faculty retreat . so . i 'll try to connect with him and people as as i can on on wednesday . but um . oh , how 'd taxes go ? taxes go ok ? grad d : mmm . yeah . professor e : yeah . oh , good . yeah . yeah . that 's just that 's that 's one of the big advantages of not making much money is the taxes are easier . yeah . phd f : unless you 're getting money in two countries . professor e : i think you are . are n't you ? phd f : they both want their cut . grad d : hmm . yeah . phd f : right ? professor e : yeah . yeah . huh . canada w canada wants a cut ? grad d : mm - hmm . professor e : have to do so you you have to do two returns ? grad d : mmm . w uh , for two thousand i did . yeah . professor e : oh , oh . yeah . for tw that 's right , ju phd f : but not for this next year ? professor e : two thousand . yeah . probably not this next year , i guess . yeah . yeah . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about the tax return ? </s> grad d : mmm . yeah . professor e : yeah . oh , good . yeah . yeah . that 's just that 's that 's one of the big advantages of not making much money is the taxes are easier . yeah . phd f : unless you 're getting money in two countries . professor e : i think you are . are n't you ? phd f : they both want their cut . grad d : hmm . yeah . phd f : right ? professor e : yeah . yeah . huh . canada w canada wants a cut ? grad d : mm - hmm . professor e : have to do so you you have to do two returns ? grad d : mmm . w uh , for two thousand i did . yeah . professor e : oh , oh . yeah . for tw that 's right , ju phd f : but not for this next year ? professor e : two thousand . yeah . probably not this next year , i guess . yeah . yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about acoustic events </s> professor e : ok . alright . uh . barry , do you wan na say something about your stuff here ? grad a : oh , um . right . i just , um , continuing looking at , uh , ph uh , phonetic events , and , uh , this tuesday gon na be , uh , meeting with john ohala with chuck to talk some more about these , uh , ph um , phonetic events . um , came up with , uh , a plan of attack , uh , gon na execute , and um yeah . it 's that 's pretty much it . professor e : oh , well . no um , why do n't you say something about what it is ? grad a : oh , you oh , you want you want details . hmm . ok . professor e : well , we 're all gathered here together . i thought we 'd , you know grad a : i was hoping i could wave my hands . um . so , um . so , once wa i i was thinking getting getting us a set of acoustic events to um , to be able to distinguish between , uh , phones and words and stuff . and um , once we we would figure out a set of these events that can be , you know , um , hand - labeled or or derived , uh , from h the hand - labeled phone targets . um , we could take these events and , um , do some cheating experiments , um , where we feed , um , these events into an sri system , um , eh , and evaluate its performance on a switchboard task . uh , yeah . grad d : hey , barry ? can you give an example of an event ? grad a : yeah . sure . um , i i can give you an example of twenty - odd events . um so , he in this paper , um , it 's talking about phoneme recognition using acoustic events . so , things like frication or , uh , nasality . professor e : whose paper is it ? grad a : um , this is a paper by hubener and cardson benson bernds - berndsen . professor e : yeah . huh . from , uh , university of hamburg and bielefeld . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : yeah . i think the just to expand a little bit on the idea of acoustic event . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : there 's , um in my mind , anyways , there 's a difference between , um , acoustic features and acoustic events . and i think of acoustic features as being , um , things that linguists talk about , like , um professor e : so , stuff that 's not based on data . phd f : stuff that 's not based on data , necessarily . professor e : yeah . oh , ok . yeah . yeah , ok . phd f : right . that 's not based on , you know , acoustic data . so they talk about features for phones , like , uh , its height , grad a : yeah . phd f : its tenseness , laxness , things like that , grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : which may or may not be all that easy to measure in the acoustic signal . versus an acoustic event , which is just some something in the acoustic signal that is fairly easy to measure . um . so it 's , um it 's a little different , in at least in my mind . professor e : i mean , when we did the spam work i mean , there we had we had this notion of an , uh , auditory @ @ { comment } auditory event . grad a : good . that 's great . professor e : and , uh , um , called them `` avents `` , uh , uh , uh , with an a at the front . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : uh . and the the the idea was something that occurred that is important to a bunch of neurons somewhere . so . grad a : mm - hmm . professor e : um . a sudden change or a relatively rapid change in some spectral characteristic will will do sort of this . i mean , there 's certainly a bunch of a bunch of places where you know that neurons are gon na fire because something novel has happened . that was that was the main thing that we were focusing on there . but there 's certainly other things beyond what we talked about there that are n't just sort of rapid changes , but phd f : it 's kinda like the difference between top - down and bottom - up . professor e : yeah . phd f : i think of the acoustic you know , phonetic features as being top - down . you know , you look at the phone and you say this phone is supposed to be you know , have this feature , this feature , and this feature . whether tha those features show up in the acoustic signal is sort of irrelevant . whereas , an acoustic event goes the other way . here 's the signal . here 's some event . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : what ? and then that you know , that may map to this phone sometimes , and sometimes it may not . it just depen maybe depends on the context , things like that . professor e : mm - hmm . phd f : and so it 's sort of a different way of looking . professor e : mm - hmm . grad a : yeah . so . yeah . mm - hmm . um using these these events , um , you know , we can we can perform these these , uh , cheating experiments . see how how how good they are , um , in , um in terms of phoneme recognition or word recognition . and , um and then from that point on , i would , uh , s design robust event detectors , um , in a similar , um , wa spirit that saul has done w uh , with his graphical models , and this this probabilistic and - or model that he uses . um , eh , try to extend it to , um to account for other other phenomena like , um , cmr co - modulation release . and , um and maybe also investigate ways to to modify the structure of these models , um , in a data - driven way , uh , similar to the way that , uh , jeff jeff , uh , bilmes did his work . um , and while i 'm i 'm doing these , um , event detectors , you know , i can ma mea measure my progress by comparing , um , the error rates in clean and noisy conditions to something like , uh , neural nets . um , and so so , once we have these these , uh , event detectors , um , we could put them together and and feed the outputs of the event detectors into into the sri , um , hmm hmm system , and , um and test it on on switchboard or , um , maybe even aurora stuff . and , that 's pretty much the the big picture of of um , the plan . professor e : by the way , um , there 's , uh , a couple people who are gon na be here i forget if i already told you this , but , a couple people who are gon na be here for six months . grad a : mm - hmm . professor e : uh uh , there 's a professor kollmeier , uh , from germany who 's , uh , uh , quite big in the , uh , hearing - aid signal - processing area and , um , michael kleinschmidt , who 's worked with him , who also looks at auditory properties inspired by various , uh , brain function things . so , um , um , i think they 'll be interesting to talk to , in this sort of issue as these detectors are are , uh , developing . grad a : hmm . ok . professor e : so , he looks at interesting interesting things in in the different ways of looking at spectra in order to to get various speech properties out . so . ok . well , short meeting , but that 's ok . and , uh , we might as well do our digits . and like i say , i i encourage you to go ahead and meet , uh , next week with , uh , uh , hynek . alright , i 'll i 'll start . it 's , uh , one thirty - five . seventeen ok </s>
<s> what did phd f think about acoustic events ? </s> phd f : there 's , um in my mind , anyways , there 's a difference between , um , acoustic features and acoustic events . and i think of acoustic features as being , um , things that linguists talk about , like , um professor e : so , stuff that 's not based on data . phd f : stuff that 's not based on data , necessarily . professor e : yeah . oh , ok . yeah . yeah , ok . phd f : right . that 's not based on , you know , acoustic data . so they talk about features for phones , like , uh , its height , grad a : yeah . phd f : its tenseness , laxness , things like that , grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : which may or may not be all that easy to measure in the acoustic signal . versus an acoustic event , which is just some something in the acoustic signal that is fairly easy to measure . um . so it 's , um it 's a little different , in at least in my mind . professor e : i mean , when we did the spam work i mean , there we had we had this notion of an , uh , auditory @ @ { comment } auditory event . grad a : good . that 's great . professor e : and , uh , um , called them `` avents `` , uh , uh , uh , with an a at the front . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : uh . and the the the idea was something that occurred that is important to a bunch of neurons somewhere . so . grad a : mm - hmm . professor e : um . a sudden change or a relatively rapid change in some spectral characteristic will will do sort of this . i mean , there 's certainly a bunch of a bunch of places where you know that neurons are gon na fire because something novel has happened . that was that was the main thing that we were focusing on there . but there 's certainly other things beyond what we talked about there that are n't just sort of rapid changes , but phd f : it 's kinda like the difference between top - down and bottom - up . professor e : yeah . phd f : i think of the acoustic you know , phonetic features as being top - down . you know , you look at the phone and you say this phone is supposed to be you know , have this feature , this feature , and this feature . whether tha those features show up in the acoustic signal is sort of irrelevant . whereas , an acoustic event goes the other way . here 's the signal . here 's some event . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about acoustic events ? </s> professor e : i mean , when we did the spam work i mean , there we had we had this notion of an , uh , auditory @ @ { comment } auditory event . grad a : good . that 's great . professor e : and , uh , um , called them `` avents `` , uh , uh , uh , with an a at the front . phd f : mm - hmm . professor e : uh . and the the the idea was something that occurred that is important to a bunch of neurons somewhere . so . grad a : mm - hmm . professor e : um . a sudden change or a relatively rapid change in some spectral characteristic will will do sort of this . i mean , there 's certainly a bunch of a bunch of places where you know that neurons are gon na fire because something novel has happened . that was that was the main thing that we were focusing on there . but there 's certainly other things beyond what we talked about there that are n't just sort of rapid changes , but phd f : it 's kinda like the difference between top - down and bottom - up . professor e : yeah . phd f : i think of the acoustic you know , phonetic features as being top - down . you know , you look at the phone and you say this phone is supposed to be you know , have this feature , this feature , and this feature . whether tha those features show up in the acoustic signal is sort of irrelevant . whereas , an acoustic event goes the other way . here 's the signal . here 's some event . grad a : mm - hmm . phd f : what ? and then that you know , that may map to this phone sometimes , and sometimes it may not . it just depen maybe depends on the context , things like that . professor e : mm - hmm . phd f : and so it 's sort of a different way of looking . professor e : mm - hmm . grad a : yeah . so . yeah . mm - hmm . um using these these events , um , you know , we can we can perform these these , uh , cheating experiments . see how how how good they are , um , in , um in terms of phoneme recognition or word recognition . and , um and then from that point on , i would , uh , s design robust event detectors , um , in a similar , um , wa spirit that saul has done w uh , with his graphical models , and this this probabilistic and - or model that he uses . um , eh , try to extend it to , um to account for other other phenomena like , um , cmr co - modulation release . and , um and maybe also investigate ways to to modify the structure of these models , um , in a data - driven way , uh , similar to the way that , uh , jeff jeff , uh , bilmes did his work . um , and while i 'm i 'm doing these , um , event detectors , you know , i can ma mea measure my progress by comparing , um , the error rates in clean and noisy conditions to something like , uh , neural nets . um , and so so , once we have these these , uh , event detectors , um , we could put them together and and feed the outputs of the event detectors into into the sri , um , hmm hmm system , and , um and test it on on switchboard or , um , maybe even aurora stuff . and , that 's pretty much the the big picture of of um , the plan . professor e : by the way , um , there 's , uh , a couple people who are gon na be here i forget if i already told you this , but , a couple people who are gon na be here for six months . grad a : mm - hmm . professor e : uh uh , there 's a professor kollmeier , uh , from germany who 's , uh , uh , quite big in the , uh , hearing - aid signal - processing area and , um , michael kleinschmidt , who 's worked with him , who also looks at auditory properties inspired by various , uh , brain function things . so , um , um , i think they 'll be interesting to talk to , in this sort of issue as these detectors are are , uh , developing . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay everybody is ready ? good morning again . so , today we are going to have a f second meeting . oh michael , hi . you 're late . you have a good reason for that ? user interface : yes . industrial designer : project manager : very good . okay , let 's have a look to the agenda today . so , we are going to have a meeting about the functional design . um so first before starting i w just going to uh to go quickly to through the minutes of previous meeting . so uh basically we we are not decided if w we should go for a universal or specific uh uh remote control , but i have new um new i inputs for about that topics . i goin i 'm going to share with you . and uh basically we decided to um to uh go to individual actions for each of you uh so um industrial designer should wor was supposed to work on th on th on the working design . you showed us you ar you you prepare something for us ? industrial designer : yeah . yep . project manager : the u_i_ guy also uh work on that , yeah , and for the mar our marketing expert should deliver some specs . alright so so we are going to go through three of your individual presentations . but first i would like quickly to uh to decide of to give a name to the project . so , i just put d quickly remo , but if you have any o other names that we co could decide for just to to keep something fun for our project we we should we could discuss quickly . any ideas ? user interface : uh the powerstick . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : powerstick , yeah . user interface : project manager : what else ? what else ? marketing : uh . user interface : maybe a spanish name would work well . marketing : mm i was thinking of the user interface : especially if we 're selling into the u_s_ market becasue there 's a lot of spanish speakers there . maybe something that sounds cool in english but sounds funny in spanish . marketing : mando . user interface : mando . project manager : mango ? mango ? user interface : what is that ? marketing : mando . project manager : mando . m_a_ ? m_a_ ? marketing : a*_n_ yeah d_o . project manager : m_ d_o_ . mm , okay . marketing : it does n't it does n't sound cool for me , project manager : what does it mean ? oh . marketing : but maybe for a spanish for i for user interface : what does it mean in spanish ? marketing : control . user interface : control . project manager : hmm . nice . user interface : okay . 'cause it also like in english it sounds like you know the man 's tool you know because you know men like to have control of the remote marketing : but mm , yeah . user interface : so it might marketing : mando sounds latino . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : okay . user interface : the mando . project manager : so , let 's go for mando ? yeah ? no objection ? industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah that 's . project manager : great . so user interface : and we could have some like you d you could have the fonts you know special , so you have man in like in in uh in one o in one font and then the o_ as like project manager : okay , i think this is user interface : although you do n't wan na cut uh cut women out of the uh potential buyers though , project manager : okay . user interface : do you ? so industrial designer : yeah they are the most tv watcher . so we should be careful . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , i think this is more a question of of user interface : marketing . marketing : but yeah project manager : i i think this is more a question of of look and feel . marketing : it uh project manager : something that should be addressed later we should we should go to other for the other topics . marketing : yeah because if the product will be international user interface : well that 's the thing . we need to know who we 're selling it to before we can really decide on a project manager : yeah okay , so let 's stick f to man mando for the name and we 'll see for the for the look and feel later . so let 's go for the three presentations right now . so , who want to start ? user interface : project manager : so maybe we could start with the market , yeah . marketing : maybe maybe i should uh start . yeah . mm . okay . project manager : okay so i have your slides somewhere ? marketing : yeah . should be in participant four . project manager : participant four . this one ? marketing : yeah , yeah . uh . project manager : s that 's coming . uh user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . great . marketing : okay so yeah i will i will give a brief outline about what i what i prepared for this meeting . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : for the functional requirements and especially for the for the user requirements . i prepare a marketing report and we have to find the weaknesses and and the the improvements we could do to the current remote controls . and also i di i did a study with for the incorporation of new technologies it seems that the remote controls have been have remained the same for the last five , ten years . there is no no significant difference between the the b the first new controls and project manager : okay . sh next slide ? marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : well more most of the people think that remote controls are ugly , thoroughly . so and they they admit that the the they should uh s they would uh spend more money in a fancier remote control , which is which is good and it 's interesting point . also the people are worried about about the r*_s_i_ disease , which is if you repeat the sa the same movement , which is not a with a not very appropriate device , you you will have problems whe when you will get old . so s people are uh are worried about the the shape of the of the remote control . they are also they get angry very often because they lost the remote control very often , so i think it would be a good point to to l to to find a a solution to any beep any alarm or something incorporated to with the remote control every time it it get lost . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and also i found that young people the the younger people are the more interested they are in incorporating new technologies in the in the remote control . project manager : okay . marketing : so in my opinion the mando this mando should n't be very small because the smaller it is , the more like the the liklier it is to get lost . liklier or more likely ? user interface : more likely . marketing : likely . okay . uh people also complain because they they they all have the same size of the buttons for buttons who w which are not very use like f uh memorising channels or or this kind of actions which are not very often but they they should n't they should n't have the same importance in the in the uh in the remote cont in the remote control . also the z the design should fit the hand shape . so it may be interesting to to think in a in both prototypes , for right and left handed people . user interface : well th the on the thing is though , most remote controls are used by more than one person . so unless you 're kind of targeting single people you know you 're gon na maybe marketing : yeah . user interface : cut out some a lot of your market . marketing : i dunno i th anyway i think it could be int interesting to to release some a a small fraction of of this remote controls . industrial designer : well maybe it could be a universal design . marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : a universal design , which is which is good for both the hands . user interface : still shaped for yeah for your hand but not for a particular hand , right ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah ? that 's right , whether it 's left hand or right hand , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but but do n't you think that the two points are clashing , one thing you are saying design should fit the hand shape and it should not be very small ? marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : the first and the third point , they are clashing . user interface : well it can still be a , you can still extend past the hand . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : like uh industrial designer : so fitting the hand does n't mean much then . user interface : well it means like , this remote here is kind of is very thin and long so instead of having you know you might have it kind of a bit bigger industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : yeah , like user interface : or , you know , with maybe some some finger molds or something . industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm . project manager : industrial designer : so it means design should be similar to the traditional ones ? little sleek , longer ? and it should fit the hand . marketing : no no i was thinking of so like something project manager : something with the shape of the palm ? industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : some finger grips maybe . marketing : yeah . user interface : you could even have some buttons like you know on the sides and everything , project manager : on the sides . marketing : yeah yeah . it sh it should n't it should n't be symmetric symmetrical . user interface : but industrial designer : mm-hm mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : not anymore . that 's what yeah . project manager : and then finally marketing : and finally , the incorporation of a lcd or a speech recognition system in the remote control could also be interesting , but i do n't know if the budget would be large enough . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . first i 'm just wondering about the lcd stuff because uh because marketing : but most of yeah most of the young people to thirty to thirty years old were really interested in this kind of technology . project manager : yeah , so maybe it 's a good time for me to uh to bring you to some new uh new informations . we had the new requirements from the so uh from the head offices of the company , and so they wanted so they want to um they would like to be restricted to tv . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , i dunno if you had this information already . no , so they want us to restrict the remote control to tv only because of time limitations . um they want also uh marketing : actually this marketing report is restricted to tv remote controls . project manager : excellent . so we have also to focus more on the internet aspects because well well te teletext is outdated now and uh finally , it should be clear that the corporate image , that means colours and logos of the co our company should be clearly inde identified in the product . so user interface : i was still uh i was still working on this uh twenty five euro price point because i think actually having looked at some of the remotes out there , this is quite a low uh price if if we 're maybe i can get to this in my presentation though , project manager : yeah yeah . sure sure . user interface : but um yeah . project manager : so maybe we can jump to your presentations , right now . user interface : yep . okay . project manager : okay so let 's keep in mind about tha that that this last point about lcd and speech uh reco user interface : yeah . i think even even if it was within budget do a speech reco rec system it might be a bit difficult because if you think if you 're watching tv you 're gon na have a lot of this uh background noise from the tv which might interfere with the project manager : sorry , what is your ? user interface : uh participant three . you might have some background noise from the tv which will make the speech recognition much uh harder , so . marketing : yeah but you should be able to activate or disactivate , so yeah yeah . user interface : oh you press a press a button to talk , and the the tv the tv sound turns off . marketing : yeah uh channel fifty . industrial designer : no it could be command control kind of thing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it requir recognises particular sequence and then it gets activated . means you say you should say like does that , remote control being on or be on kind of thing , and then remote control comes in the picture for the speech recognition . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : because this kind of thing means speech is there from the tv also . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so there should be something command controlled , you start and then you stop . user interface : mm . yeah . industrial designer : it 's like v_i_ editor , you are having two modes similarly . user interface : industrial designer : otherwise it 's just lying idle . project manager : okay michael . user interface : okay , so , could i describe the mouse maybe be easier to project manager : sorry ? user interface : could i use the mouse , or project manager : um yeah . user interface : mm . thanks . okay . project manager : the wheel does n't work . user interface : great . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : okay so um while uh researching this this topic i first of all just thought of a couple of things that i would like to see in a remote , and just uh looked to see if they 're actually available in any current remotes , and then also searched for which are the top-rated uh remote controls on epinions dot com , which is a a you know a a customer um written basically review site . so um there 's a pretty wide range of uh remote controls these days and and uh this remote control on the right here is is one of the more extravagant , but it 's not really it 's by no means uh mm you know on it 's own in being so expensive . there are a lot of expensive remote controls out there . project manager : looks like a p_d_a_ ? user interface : so yeah it doe it 's well basically all the functions uh are controlled through through the lcd screen except for the really really kind of main functions , which have a couple of of their own buttons . um and if you look at a lot of the universal remotes out um on the market , i know we 're working on television remote , but a lot of the universal remotes out there have uh have these lcd screens which kind of helps when you 're using multiple uh devices i suppose because you can have multiple kind of functions d different functions on the screen at different times . but um the thing that i find most interesting about this remote control , and it 's kind of difficult to uh to see in the slide , but it has a scroll wheel on it , which is kind of like uh a mouse scroll wheel , which i think is it 's a really kind of important design aspect um is it 's 'cause the thing is what a what we the presen this presentation we had is what we want the remote control to actually do . and obviously the the simplest thing that a remote control does is it just change the change the channel . industrial designer : change the channels . user interface : now um industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh the i think that a scroll wheel is actually pretty a pretty handy way of of changing the channel . 'cause i know when i um when i use the remote to change the channel i very rarely use the numbers on the on the pad . i usually use the up and down industrial designer : mmm-hmm mm-hmm . yeah yeah . user interface : because most channels are you know two digit numbers and you have to press you know a special button to enter a two-digit number , and then two numbers , so that 's just uh it 's annoying . so i think a scroll wheel is is quite handy . now um the the scroll wheel is is much more useful if you have an lcd screen , and this brings us to the the point you were mentioning before about the internet uh capability . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : one possibility , if we now we need to still talk about the price point because obviously a lot of this stuff ca n't be done for twenty five eu uh euro , but one possibility is to download program information into the lcd screen so that instead of actually saying i want to i want to go to channel thirty seven because i know this programme 's on , you know , often you do n't know what ch what channel it 's on , or you do n't know what 's on . if you have a list of of programs on your lcd screen you just scroll to that program rather than to a channel . so if you think about it 's kind of like a you know in mobile phones now you do n't use you do n't remember people 's phone number , you remember their name and you go find that name and ring it . project manager : user interface : so this would be pretty kind of a handy thing to have , but um we we really need t to discuss the price . so , i mean there are there are uh cheaper this is another multi kinda purpose remote control where it 's it 's it 's very simple , there 's only a few buttons , but al each of those buttons does something different in a different context . so this is something else we might wan na consider , is really kind of limiting the number of buttons , because this is the top rating uh universal remote control on on epinions . it it 's really uh maybe worth thinking about limiting the number of buttons as much as as possible um because really i think people want to be able to find the button they 're looking for without even looking at the remote control . and was saying before about having different size buttons for different you know frequently used uh tasks , but i think also you know the location and and shape of the buttons is important , but also the number of buttons . so if you have too many buttons it it it increases the the difficulty of finding the one you want . industrial designer : but there is one problem then the user has to understand each of that functionality . user interface : so project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah well we w industrial designer : because the same button is doing too many things . user interface : yeah well we will have a bit of a simpler uh task in that we 're only doing uh a television remote control . um i think maybe one option is to have you know a little flip-open um door that uh that you have hidden most of the time , but contains the extra buttons like , say , the number buttons for instance . um industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i i would if i had my perfect remote control , i 'd probably just have no numbers at all on it because they 're just in the way . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : they do n't really do anything . maybe you know i although i do also find flip-open doors a bit of a pain because sometimes they can break off or or whatever , but maybe a door that you can you can permanantly remove or permanantly have on would be good . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : um but i think definitely you need to to keep the buttons down to a minimum , but not not let that kind of interfere with the functionality of of the device . um marketing : h i think i think that the tr the transition to this to this new remote control should n't be very very abrupt very hard because w if people see a remo see the see a remote control without numbers mm they will think it 's very difficult to learn very difficult to very different build very different to the traditional industrial designer : it does sampling out of the . project manager : user interface : well i guess that depends on how you market it . if you if you have the right advertisement showing how how how easy it is and how you can , you know , navigate to a program without the numbers , then people might say that looks pretty easy . project manager : okay , can you continue , please mi ? user interface : so , but yep . um okay , so , i think um one of the really kind of useful things you can do with with internet connectivity would be to have this a programme driven interface rather than the channel number . so if we can have a higher priced uh remote control i think that would really be worth uh something that would be worth implementing . um mm there 's the lcd screen , um which maybe maybe is too expensive , um but i think also at the scroll wheel , i have n't mentioned it here , the scroll wheel could be used without an lcd screen , just for changing channel numbers easily . i think even that , project manager : user interface : i mean , that would be a fairly cheap thing , compared to an lcd screen , to implement , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um but i think that would be quite useful as well . and the other thing , you say we need to we need to keep it just television , but i think one maybe one option , since this is supposed to be a kind of a fashionable device , is you know there 's a certain kind of cool or wow factor that you can kind of you can have with technology , and maybe we wan na make it something that 's extensible to do other tasks . say you have like um a little another little kind of base unit that can also receive signals as well as the television where you can , say uh , change the lighting in the room . you know that would be something maybe you could sell as an extra , so that it does n't have to be part of the initial development , but , you know , later on you could you can you know you also , selling the potential of the device . then you say potentially you can then do other cool stuff like change the lights , i dunno , close the windows , whatever , turn the heating on , and um , i think that 's something we may need to have as as at least as an optional extra to to kinda make our product cool , since we say we 're putting the fashion in electronics . project manager : okay . okay . okay , thanks . you want to go ? industrial designer : yep . so yeah . so most of the things which we are discussing about is speech recognition uh , that means on my own i project manager : this one ? industrial designer : yeah , it should be . project manager : great . no , not that one . you are two . alright . industrial designer : okay so the working design is uh user i interface could be of two types , one is the usual press buttons which are there so that the user feels that he is knoing doing some he is knowing about that technology . so he is pretty comfortable if he wants to get this , and on top of that there there could be a speech recognition technology also being sitting on the on the remote . so the old kind of users who do n't want to have any changes , it can it can be useful for them , and the new users , as uh our marketing expert was saying , they can use the new gizmo which is speech recognition kind of thing . project manager : okay , sorry to interrupt you , but we have seen before that there is a new way of interacting that use wheel . industrial designer : that 's right . so anyway , that did n't come into my mind , project manager : okay . industrial designer : so th that is a possibility . these could be other kind of interfaces . project manager : industrial designer : means we can have , depending on the cost , how much we can afford , we can have different kind of interfaces . so spe buttons are something which is very everybody is familiar with . so if you go to the market and you say that buttons are there the people know what it is , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and on top of that if we are having extra functionality people are willing to shell that twenty-five euros money which we are thinking . otherwise we are just like others in the market . so anyway that is the first , user interface could be of more than one type , and uh yeah that means we can do the on-line changes which which can not be done now actually . so apart from the speech , we can have the scroll kind of thing with the buttons . now for buttons , normal requirements like bit coding and all those things are required . and for voice , limited vocabulary automatic speech recognition system is required and we require a microphone also to be sitting there on the remote . project manager : yeah . that increases the the cost also . industrial designer : uh that 's right . but uh means we have to see how much what kind of microphones and stuff like that . project manager : do you think that performance of such systems are enough to to target well of such technologies is enough ? industrial designer : uh yes , if it is limited vocabulary usually it 's enough . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah we we can uh target , means we can target ninety five percent accuracy or somewhere ninety seven perc project manager : well wh uh i imagine also that the microphone will be an ambiance um a um an ambience microphones because you are not going to speak into into th into the remote control . industrial designer : that 's right . no it it could be little d yeah it could be project manager : so it could be s a few centimetres . user interface : well one one other thing that that speech recognition could really blow out the price for is uh when you want to sell into other markets , though , industrial designer : that 's right . that 's right . user interface : because , i 'm not sure exactly where we 're gon na sell this , but i presume it 's not gon na just be english speaking countries . project manager : yeah . user interface : so then you have to s you know , you have to train models for industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm . uh it 's more like , means there are different speech technologies which are existing so d_t_w_ could be kind of which is the easiest . so you have to store some templates on the on the on the chip itself , and it 's just dynamic time warping where you try to find out what it is , instead of having a model which has to be trained and being a micro-controller . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . okay we shou we should discuss this la later after after after this this uh slide . industrial designer : yeah , that 's right . yeah . project manager : this is a this is a this is a a very important uh issue in discussion . industrial designer : so we can that 's right . yep . project manager : okay , next . uh that finished ? industrial designer : no no . components . project manager : components ? industrial designer : yeah . so , will you go to the next slide ? project manager : yes sure . user interface : industrial designer : yeah so this is the design which we are thinking so . we are having a power button and the switch , which is not much , user interface : industrial designer : and then we are having the which is to indicate whether the power is on or not . and then there are two kind of things which can be so one is the button interface which has not been shown because because of lack of time . user interface : industrial designer : so we could not put that . so now where the a_s_r_ decoder is sitting , similarly there are different kind of interfaces which could be there . so there is a_s_r_ decoder which could be there , and then there could be another scroll button scroll scroller , and then there could be buttons , and all of them they will just do the decoding and put it in the math put it in the proper message format . and then there is there is the chip which is sitting , the green one , and it converts it into bit codes , and that bit codes are sent by the infrared device to the receiver . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so this is the easiest design the there could be . so th an a_s_r_ decoder we can have things in . to have different technologies . so this was the my personal preference was that we can have a_s_r_ sitting there on the remote control . project manager : user interface : you know i guess you could actually train the remote control as you 're using it by saying you know turn volume up , and you press the uh press the button industrial designer : yeah . user interface : like uh s people teach sign language to kids f well , by speaking and doing industrial designer : yeah but uh as soon as you try to put the microchip kind of thing or something the price will go up . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so these are the slight problems . project manager : so your your opinion is that we should go for special condition technologies ? industrial designer : because yeah the reason is that if we go into the market means though i do n't have much idea , but as he the uh marketing expert presentation was marketing : i 'm sure if you can sell a a speech recognition remote control for twenty five euros everyo everyone will s will buy it . user interface : actually i 'm not so sure industrial designer : so if we go with just the user interface : because i 'm the marketing : i 'm sure . user interface : you know if i was using a remote control to , say , turn the volume up because i ca n't hear it very well , i do n't really want to you know drown out what people are saying by talking you know when i 'm when i 'm instead of pressing up on on a remote control . you know if there 's some there 's some dialogue all of a sudden that i ca n't hear , i 'm trying to actually find out what 's being said , project manager : yeah . user interface : so maybe speech recognition gets in the way more than it helps . project manager : okay so marketing : yeah but you know the the average frequency of pushing buttons , it 's about user interface : well it depends if it 's a remote control th marketing : it 's about eighty eighty eighty pushes per hour , or something like that . user interface : maybe if the remote control is something that y you do n't actually have to pick up anymore , that would be a a useful feature of the speech recogntion . marketing : user interface : if you can leave it sitting on the table and you do n't actually have to find it , then that could be . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : okay gentlemens , we have to take some deci decisions right now . industrial designer : alright . project manager : um so if i if i kind of summarise everything we 've de we we said . we are targeting tv . we need we need to have um um remote control which is fanc fancy , which is uh which is easy to to hand not too small , not too big . um we have marketing : with a good shape for the project manager : or good shape , yes . we should bring new technologies for young peoples , and uh as we have uh also requirements to to use uh to to push thr toward the internet . maybe this is something we can stick to it . and um also , a very interesting things i i i 've seen on on on the one of the comp o our competitor is this wheel that we can use to navigate . so so my feeling is that re regarding costs budget we have an an an target price , it 's not possible to go s to go to lcd and also to go to automatic speech recognition technologies . uh first m m why not to go to lcd . because um in fact as we are targeting uh tv in fact we can use tv screen as a screen to feedback to to give some feedback informations about what we could have . user interface : well it depends though well it depends . if we we do n't unless we have some input some video input to the tv or we have control over the tv then we ca n't actually display that . like if we if we produce the tvs then then yeah we can put you know menus up up there , but otherwise we need to actually have some kind of something sitting in between the video signal and the and the tv to superimpose those those menus . so that 's an extra project manager : yeah that 's right . don do n't you ha user interface : cost . project manager : do n't we have contacts with uh people on tv or or well systems that exist that we can use ? user interface : well this is this is another que we still have n't really defined the remote . are we still you say we 're focusing on tv , but is it still a kind of like a universal remote in that it 's a replacement remote control , or is this something for our own line of of televisions ? project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause that really makes a big difference . 'cause even if we have contacts we ca n't really produce a remote control that can bring up menus on other other companies ' tvs . it 's just there are too many tvs out there . it 's it 's not really gon na project manager : yeah . that 's good point . what 's what cou what could be the cost of uh well , could we fit the the targets uh in terms of cost uh if we go s to lcd on the remote control ? user interface : for twenty five euro ? i think it 's impossible . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it 's not possible . it 's impossible . user interface : but but i dunno , marketing : yeah . user interface : i think um it would be good to know if there is any leverage in that any leeway in that um that twenty five euro because for twenty five euro i think all we can really do is provide a very basic remote control , and that seems to be kind of against the philosophy of our company which is you know putting the fashion into electronics . so i would i would like to know if there 's any chance of of increasing the uh marketing : uh user interface : of increasing the unit price . project manager : so you mean yo you mean we we should target something maybe which is which would be more expensive but re really fancy in terms to um in terms to had to have really an added value ? marketing : what would be user interface : yeah . yeah . yeah project manager : okay , user interface : because yeah . project manager : so regarding the automatic speech recognition , i think this is marketing : wha but what would be one question , what would be the goal of putting an lcd in a remote control ? user interface : well th marketing : what what kind of information ? user interface : 'cause you can have things like the programme name instead of the channel numbers , like an interactive programme guide . marketing : yeah but mo most of the tvs nowadays show the show the project manager : they have tele teletext . well , because they have teletext on it . th th you have a teletext sin signal that you can that you can uh that you can get thr through the channel . marketing : yeah but yeah most of the tvs have teletext nowadays . project manager : they have t most of them have teletext , but we want to get rid well one of our requirements is to uh to move to teletext to uh to the use of internet . marketing : yeah . project manager : so to to uh user interface : you can get a lot more information on it . project manager : to browse more easily the teletext . for instance through uh through your remote control . marketing : so what would what would appear in the in the lcd ? user interface : so you could have the name of the programme , you could have um the start time you know where it 's up to . project manager : the ti the start time , all the p all the programmes you could have uh o user interface : you could have a l even a little image of you know the c you know the the m the main actors or something marketing : okay . user interface : so you can quickly just kind of even without reading project manager : well i do n't know if this information is available from teletext , also . user interface : well no , but there are the electronic programme guides out there . they may not have pictures , but maybe they do . industrial designer : are user interface : there 's dependi it also depends on the country . project manager : well because for the same reason that we can not uh informations on the tv . we c we could n't grab information information which is not there . user interface : no but i mean with the internet you have flexibility of where you get your information from . so it may be possible that there are people out there providing that . uh . project manager : so so that mean w w we need an in an extra internet connection to use the remote control , if you want to browse , in addition to the tv , or uh or it should be a special tv connected to marketing : but yeah . user interface : well i i think if we 're gon na i think we would definitely need the internet connection because even with y i do n't think you could even get teletext information from the tv onto the remote control , especially if we do n't control the tv . project manager : user interface : i dunno . we need to find that out . project manager : okay . we need to close the meeting . um so industrial designer : but just a small thing , project manager : very quickly . industrial designer : what kind of market we are targeting ? is it that we are targeting the replacement remote market , or what ? so the remote has gone bad and the person wants to buy a new remote or because the cost of lcd thing could be as high as the tv itself . that is very important . project manager : yeah , well people go to buy another remote control when they broke n broke their , user interface : if it 's a really small tv maybe . industrial designer : broke . okay . okay . project manager : and they want to go t for universal one , and they take the fanciest they can have . industrial designer : okay . okay . okay . okay . project manager : so this is that we z that that we should target . so the com the um the uh the committment is the following , we do n't go for speech recognition technology . the lcd is still on disc is still open to discussion . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : it is up to you to go through this um uh this way and to to report report me back next meeting . so marketing : i think that the speech recognition technology would be cheaper the than the lcd . industrial designer : it 's it 's cheaper as compared to the lcd . project manager : yeah , but not sure . maybe it 's cheaper , but we have no marketing : because with the lcd you need more requirements . you need a internet connection . you need m more things . user interface : well the thing is i think i think the type of peop marketing : for the speech recognition you you do n't need anything . you just say channel fifty , and that 's it . user interface : i think the type of people that are gon na want to buy a very stylish rem r remote control with lots of new technologies are the kinda people that are gon na have you know a wireless internet connection maybe , or a you know . marketing : but then we should move to another target b because at twenty five dollars , industrial designer : means th yeah twenty five euros is yeah , that 's right . user interface : well this is what we need to find out . marketing : it 's user interface : can we can we increase the the price point of this remote control ? 'cause otherwise we need project manager : okay this is this is an open question for you . yeah . this is uh up to you to tell us . but i 'm definitely not keen on to to marketing : to move to another target ? project manager : no no no , i 'm no i 'm definit definitely not keen on going to speech recognition technologies . i 'm not confident enough . i 'm not sure that that we 'll have a product really that work . i uh that work user interface : it 's kind of hard to guarantee that you 're gon na project manager : it 's real yeah . how to guarantee such performances is really hard . marketing : the expert uh said ninety five percent . industrial designer : project manager : well this is still is is very bad . user interface : ninety five percent is not good enough though . project manager : so , this is the end of this discussion . next meeting uh here are the task you have to work on . um so you have to work on the component uh concept . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about the functional design . </s> project manager : very good . okay , let 's have a look to the agenda today . so , we are going to have a meeting about the functional design . um so first before starting i w just going to uh to go quickly to through the minutes of previous meeting . so uh basically we we are not decided if w we should go for a universal or specific uh uh remote control , but i have new um new i inputs for about that topics . i goin i 'm going to share with you . and uh basically we decided to um to uh go to individual actions for each of you uh so um industrial designer should wor was supposed to work on th on th on the working design . you showed us you ar you you prepare something for us ? industrial designer : yeah . yep . project manager : the u_i_ guy also uh work on that , yeah , and for the mar our marketing expert should deliver some specs . alright so so we are going to go through three of your individual presentations . but first i would like quickly to uh to decide of to give a name to the project . so , i just put d quickly remo , but if you have any o other names that we co could decide for just to to keep something fun for our project we we should we could discuss quickly . any ideas ? user interface : uh the powerstick . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : powerstick , yeah . user interface : project manager : what else ? what else ? marketing : uh . user interface : maybe a spanish name would work well . marketing : mm i was thinking of the user interface : especially if we 're selling into the u_s_ market becasue there 's a lot of spanish speakers there . maybe something that sounds cool in english but sounds funny in spanish . marketing : mando . user interface : mando . project manager : mango ? mango ? user interface : what is that ? marketing : mando . project manager : mando . m_a_ ? m_a_ ? marketing : a*_n_ yeah d_o . project manager : m_ d_o_ . mm , okay . marketing : it does n't it does n't sound cool for me , project manager : what does it mean ? oh . marketing : but maybe for a spanish for i for user interface : what does it mean in spanish ? marketing : control . user interface : control . project manager : hmm . nice . user interface : okay . 'cause it also like in english it sounds like you know the man 's tool you know because you know men like to have control of the remote marketing : but mm , yeah . user interface : so it might marketing : mando sounds latino . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : okay . user interface : the mando . project manager : so , let 's go for mando ? yeah ? no objection ? industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah that 's . project manager : great . so user interface : and we could have some like you d you could have the fonts you know special , so you have man in like in in uh in one o in one font and then the o_ as like project manager : okay , i think this is user interface : although you do n't wan na cut uh cut women out of the uh potential buyers though , project manager : okay . user interface : do you ? so industrial designer : yeah they are the most tv watcher . so we should be careful . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , i think this is more a question of of user interface : marketing . marketing : but yeah project manager : i i think this is more a question of of look and feel . marketing : it uh project manager : something that should be addressed later we should we should go to other for the other topics . marketing : yeah because if the product will be international user interface : well that 's the thing . we need to know who we 're selling it to before we can really decide on a project manager : yeah okay , so let 's stick f to man mando for the name and we 'll see for the for the look and feel later . so let 's go for the three presentations right now . so , who want to start ? user interface : project manager : so maybe we could start with the market , yeah . marketing : maybe maybe i should uh start . yeah . mm . okay . project manager : okay so i have your slides somewhere ? marketing : yeah . should be in participant four . project manager : participant four . this one ? marketing : yeah , yeah . uh . project manager : s that 's coming . uh user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . great . marketing : okay so yeah i will i will give a brief outline about what i what i prepared for this meeting . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : for the functional requirements and especially for the for the user requirements . i prepare a marketing report and we have to find the weaknesses and and the the improvements we could do to the current remote controls . and also i di i did a study with for the incorporation of new technologies it seems that the remote controls have been have remained the same for the last five , ten years . there is no no significant difference between the the b the first new controls and project manager : okay . sh next slide ? marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : well more most of the people think that remote controls are ugly , thoroughly . so and they they admit that the the they should uh s they would uh spend more money in a fancier remote control , which is which is good and it 's interesting point . also the people are worried about about the r*_s_i_ disease , which is if you repeat the sa the same movement , which is not a with a not very appropriate device , you you will have problems whe when you will get old . so s people are uh are worried about the the shape of the of the remote control . they are also they get angry very often because they lost the remote control very often , so i think it would be a good point to to l to to find a a solution to any beep any alarm or something incorporated to with the remote control every time it it get lost . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and also i found that young people the the younger people are the more interested they are in incorporating new technologies in the in the remote control . project manager : okay . marketing : so in my opinion the mando this mando should n't be very small because the smaller it is , the more like the the liklier it is to get lost . liklier or more likely ? user interface : more likely . marketing : likely . okay . uh people also complain because they they they all have the same size of the buttons for buttons who w which are not very use like f uh memorising channels or or this kind of actions which are not very often but they they should n't they should n't have the same importance in the in the uh in the remote cont in the remote control . also the z the design should fit the hand shape . so it may be interesting to to think in a in both prototypes , for right and left handed people . user interface : well th the on the thing is though , most remote controls are used by more than one person . so unless you 're kind of targeting single people you know you 're gon na maybe marketing : yeah . user interface : cut out some a lot of your market . marketing : i dunno i th anyway i think it could be int interesting to to release some a a small fraction of of this remote controls . industrial designer : well maybe it could be a universal design . marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : a universal design , which is which is good for both the hands . user interface : still shaped for yeah for your hand but not for a particular hand , right ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah ? that 's right , whether it 's left hand or right hand , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but but do n't you think that the two points are clashing , one thing you are saying design should fit the hand shape and it should not be very small ? marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : the first and the third point , they are clashing . user interface : well it can still be a , you can still extend past the hand . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : like uh industrial designer : so fitting the hand does n't mean much then . user interface : well it means like , this remote here is kind of is very thin and long so instead of having you know you might have it kind of a bit bigger industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : yeah , like user interface : or , you know , with maybe some some finger molds or something . industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm . project manager : industrial designer : so it means design should be similar to the traditional ones ? little sleek , longer ? and it should fit the hand . marketing : no no i was thinking of so like something project manager : something with the shape of the palm ? industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : some finger grips maybe . marketing : yeah . user interface : you could even have some buttons like you know on the sides and everything , project manager : on the sides . marketing : yeah yeah . it sh it should n't it should n't be symmetric symmetrical . user interface : but industrial designer : mm-hm mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : not anymore . that 's what yeah . project manager : and then finally marketing : and finally , the incorporation of a lcd or a speech recognition system in the remote control could also be interesting , but i do n't know if the budget would be large enough . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . first i 'm just wondering about the lcd stuff because uh because marketing : but most of yeah most of the young people to thirty to thirty years old were really interested in this kind of technology . project manager : yeah , so maybe it 's a good time for me to uh to bring you to some new uh new informations . we had the new requirements from the so uh from the head offices of the company , and so they wanted so they want to um they would like to be restricted to tv . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , i dunno if you had this information already . no , so they want us to restrict the remote control to tv only because of time limitations . um they want also uh marketing : actually this marketing report is restricted to tv remote controls . project manager : excellent . so we have also to focus more on the internet aspects because well well te teletext is outdated now and uh finally , it should be clear that the corporate image , that means colours and logos of the co our company should be clearly inde identified in the product . so user interface : i was still uh i was still working on this uh twenty five euro price point because i think actually having looked at some of the remotes out there , this is quite a low uh price if if we 're maybe i can get to this in my presentation though , project manager : yeah yeah . sure sure . user interface : but um yeah . project manager : so maybe we can jump to your presentations , right now . user interface : yep . okay . project manager : okay so let 's keep in mind about tha that that this last point about lcd and speech uh reco user interface : yeah . i think even even if it was within budget do a speech reco rec system it might be a bit difficult because if you think if you 're watching tv you 're gon na have a lot of this uh background noise from the tv which might interfere with the project manager : sorry , what is your ? user interface : uh participant three . you might have some background noise from the tv which will make the speech recognition much uh harder , so . marketing : yeah but you should be able to activate or disactivate , so yeah yeah . user interface : oh you press a press a button to talk , and the the tv the tv sound turns off . marketing : yeah uh channel fifty . industrial designer : no it could be command control kind of thing . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it requir recognises particular sequence and then it gets activated . means you say you should say like does that , remote control being on or be on kind of thing , and then remote control comes in the picture for the speech recognition . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : because this kind of thing means speech is there from the tv also . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so there should be something command controlled , you start and then you stop . user interface : mm . yeah . industrial designer : it 's like v_i_ editor , you are having two modes similarly . user interface : industrial designer : otherwise it 's just lying idle . project manager : okay michael . user interface : okay , so , could i describe the mouse maybe be easier to project manager : sorry ? user interface : could i use the mouse , or project manager : um yeah . user interface : mm . thanks . okay . project manager : the wheel does n't work . user interface : great . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : okay so um while uh researching this this topic i first of all just thought of a couple of things that i would like to see in a remote , and just uh looked to see if they 're actually available in any current remotes , and then also searched for which are the top-rated uh remote controls on epinions dot com , which is a a you know a a customer um written basically review site . so um there 's a pretty wide range of uh remote controls these days and and uh this remote control on the right here is is one of the more extravagant , but it 's not really it 's by no means uh mm you know on it 's own in being so expensive . there are a lot of expensive remote controls out there . project manager : looks like a p_d_a_ ? user interface : so yeah it doe it 's well basically all the functions uh are controlled through through the lcd screen except for the really really kind of main functions , which have a couple of of their own buttons . um and if you look at a lot of the universal remotes out um on the market , i know we 're working on television remote , but a lot of the universal remotes out there have uh have these lcd screens which kind of helps when you 're using multiple uh devices i suppose because you can have multiple kind of functions d different functions on the screen at different times . but um the thing that i find most interesting about this remote control , and it 's kind of difficult to uh to see in the slide , but it has a scroll wheel on it , which is kind of like uh a mouse scroll wheel , which i think is it 's a really kind of important design aspect um is it 's 'cause the thing is what a what we the presen this presentation we had is what we want the remote control to actually do . and obviously the the simplest thing that a remote control does is it just change the change the channel . industrial designer : change the channels . user interface : now um industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh the i think that a scroll wheel is actually pretty a pretty handy way of of changing the channel . 'cause i know when i um when i use the remote to change the channel i very rarely use the numbers on the on the pad . i usually use the up and down industrial designer : mmm-hmm mm-hmm . yeah yeah . user interface : because most channels are you know two digit numbers and you have to press you know a special button to enter a two-digit number , and then two numbers , so that 's just uh it 's annoying . so i think a scroll wheel is is quite handy . now um the the scroll wheel is is much more useful if you have an lcd screen , and this brings us to the the point you were mentioning before about the internet uh capability . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : one possibility , if we now we need to still talk about the price point because obviously a lot of this stuff ca n't be done for twenty five eu uh euro , but one possibility is to download program information into the lcd screen so that instead of actually saying i want to i want to go to channel thirty seven because i know this programme 's on , you know , often you do n't know what ch what channel it 's on , or you do n't know what 's on . if you have a list of of programs on your lcd screen you just scroll to that program rather than to a channel . so if you think about it 's kind of like a you know in mobile phones now you do n't use you do n't remember people 's phone number , you remember their name and you go find that name and ring it . project manager : user interface : so this would be pretty kind of a handy thing to have , but um we we really need t to discuss the price . so , i mean there are there are uh cheaper this is another multi kinda purpose remote control where it 's it 's it 's very simple , there 's only a few buttons , but al each of those buttons does something different in a different context . so this is something else we might wan na consider , is really kind of limiting the number of buttons , because this is the top rating uh universal remote control on on epinions . it it 's really uh maybe worth thinking about limiting the number of buttons as much as as possible um because really i think people want to be able to find the button they 're looking for without even looking at the remote control . and was saying before about having different size buttons for different you know frequently used uh tasks , but i think also you know the location and and shape of the buttons is important , but also the number of buttons . so if you have too many buttons it it it increases the the difficulty of finding the one you want . industrial designer : but there is one problem then the user has to understand each of that functionality . user interface : so project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah well we w industrial designer : because the same button is doing too many things . user interface : yeah well we will have a bit of a simpler uh task in that we 're only doing uh a television remote control . um i think maybe one option is to have you know a little flip-open um door that uh that you have hidden most of the time , but contains the extra buttons like , say , the number buttons for instance . um industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i i would if i had my perfect remote control , i 'd probably just have no numbers at all on it because they 're just in the way . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : they do n't really do anything . maybe you know i although i do also find flip-open doors a bit of a pain because sometimes they can break off or or whatever , but maybe a door that you can you can permanantly remove or permanantly have on would be good . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : um but i think definitely you need to to keep the buttons down to a minimum , but not not let that kind of interfere with the functionality of of the device . um marketing : h i think i think that the tr the transition to this to this new remote control should n't be very very abrupt very hard because w if people see a remo see the see a remote control without numbers mm they will think it 's very difficult to learn very difficult to very different build very different to the traditional industrial designer : it does sampling out of the . project manager : user interface : well i guess that depends on how you market it . if you if you have the right advertisement showing how how how easy it is and how you can , you know , navigate to a program without the numbers , then people might say that looks pretty easy . project manager : okay , can you continue , please mi ? user interface : so , but yep . um okay , so , i think um one of the really kind of useful things you can do with with internet connectivity would be to have this a programme driven interface rather than the channel number . so if we can have a higher priced uh remote control i think that would really be worth uh something that would be worth implementing . um mm there 's the lcd screen , um which maybe maybe is too expensive , um but i think also at the scroll wheel , i have n't mentioned it here , the scroll wheel could be used without an lcd screen , just for changing channel numbers easily . i think even that , project manager : user interface : i mean , that would be a fairly cheap thing , compared to an lcd screen , to implement , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um but i think that would be quite useful as well . and the other thing , you say we need to we need to keep it just television , but i think one maybe one option , since this is supposed to be a kind of a fashionable device , is you know there 's a certain kind of cool or wow factor that you can kind of you can have with technology , and maybe we wan na make it something that 's extensible to do other tasks . say you have like um a little another little kind of base unit that can also receive signals as well as the television where you can , say uh , change the lighting in the room . you know that would be something maybe you could sell as an extra , so that it does n't have to be part of the initial development , but , you know , later on you could you can you know you also , selling the potential of the device . then you say potentially you can then do other cool stuff like change the lights , i dunno , close the windows , whatever , turn the heating on , and um , i think that 's something we may need to have as as at least as an optional extra to to kinda make our product cool , since we say we 're putting the fashion in electronics . project manager : okay . okay . okay , thanks . you want to go ? industrial designer : yep . so yeah . so most of the things which we are discussing about is speech recognition uh , that means on my own i project manager : this one ? industrial designer : yeah , it should be . project manager : great . no , not that one . you are two . alright . industrial designer : okay so the working design is uh user i interface could be of two types , one is the usual press buttons which are there so that the user feels that he is knoing doing some he is knowing about that technology . so he is pretty comfortable if he wants to get this , and on top of that there there could be a speech recognition technology also being sitting on the on the remote . so the old kind of users who do n't want to have any changes , it can it can be useful for them , and the new users , as uh our marketing expert was saying , they can use the new gizmo which is speech recognition kind of thing . project manager : okay , sorry to interrupt you , but we have seen before that there is a new way of interacting that use wheel . industrial designer : that 's right . so anyway , that did n't come into my mind , project manager : okay . industrial designer : so th that is a possibility . these could be other kind of interfaces . project manager : industrial designer : means we can have , depending on the cost , how much we can afford , we can have different kind of interfaces . so spe buttons are something which is very everybody is familiar with . so if you go to the market and you say that buttons are there the people know what it is , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and on top of that if we are having extra functionality people are willing to shell that twenty-five euros money which we are thinking . otherwise we are just like others in the market . so anyway that is the first , user interface could be of more than one type , and uh yeah that means we can do the on-line changes which which can not be done now actually . so apart from the speech , we can have the scroll kind of thing with the buttons . now for buttons , normal requirements like bit coding and all those things are required . and for voice , limited vocabulary automatic speech recognition system is required and we require a microphone also to be sitting there on the remote . project manager : yeah . that increases the the cost also . industrial designer : uh that 's right . but uh means we have to see how much what kind of microphones and stuff like that . project manager : do you think that performance of such systems are enough to to target well of such technologies is enough ? industrial designer : uh yes , if it is limited vocabulary usually it 's enough . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah we we can uh target , means we can target ninety five percent accuracy or somewhere ninety seven perc project manager : well wh uh i imagine also that the microphone will be an ambiance um a um an ambience microphones because you are not going to speak into into th into the remote control . industrial designer : that 's right . no it it could be little d yeah it could be project manager : so it could be s a few centimetres . user interface : well one one other thing that that speech recognition could really blow out the price for is uh when you want to sell into other markets , though , industrial designer : that 's right . that 's right . user interface : because , i 'm not sure exactly where we 're gon na sell this , but i presume it 's not gon na just be english speaking countries . project manager : yeah . user interface : so then you have to s you know , you have to train models for industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm . uh it 's more like , means there are different speech technologies which are existing so d_t_w_ could be kind of which is the easiest . so you have to store some templates on the on the on the chip itself , and it 's just dynamic time warping where you try to find out what it is , instead of having a model which has to be trained and being a micro-controller . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . okay we shou we should discuss this la later after after after this this uh slide . industrial designer : yeah , that 's right . yeah . project manager : this is a this is a this is a a very important uh issue in discussion . industrial designer : so we can that 's right . yep . project manager : okay , next . uh that finished ? industrial designer : no no . components . project manager : components ? industrial designer : yeah . so , will you go to the next slide ? project manager : yes sure . user interface : industrial designer : yeah so this is the design which we are thinking so . we are having a power button and the switch , which is not much , user interface : industrial designer : and then we are having the which is to indicate whether the power is on or not . and then there are two kind of things which can be so one is the button interface which has not been shown because because of lack of time . user interface : industrial designer : so we could not put that . so now where the a_s_r_ decoder is sitting , similarly there are different kind of interfaces which could be there . so there is a_s_r_ decoder which could be there , and then there could be another scroll button scroll scroller , and then there could be buttons , and all of them they will just do the decoding and put it in the math put it in the proper message format . and then there is there is the chip which is sitting , the green one , and it converts it into bit codes , and that bit codes are sent by the infrared device to the receiver . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so this is the easiest design the there could be . so th an a_s_r_ decoder we can have things in . to have different technologies . so this was the my personal preference was that we can have a_s_r_ sitting there on the remote control . project manager : user interface : you know i guess you could actually train the remote control as you 're using it by saying you know turn volume up , and you press the uh press the button industrial designer : yeah . user interface : like uh s people teach sign language to kids f well , by speaking and doing industrial designer : yeah but uh as soon as you try to put the microchip kind of thing or something the price will go up . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so these are the slight problems . project manager : so your your opinion is that we should go for special condition technologies ? industrial designer : because yeah the reason is that if we go into the market means though i do n't have much idea , but as he the uh marketing expert presentation was marketing : i 'm sure if you can sell a a speech recognition remote control for twenty five euros everyo everyone will s will buy it . user interface : actually i 'm not so sure industrial designer : so if we go with just the user interface : because i 'm the marketing : i 'm sure . user interface : you know if i was using a remote control to , say , turn the volume up because i ca n't hear it very well , i do n't really want to you know drown out what people are saying by talking you know when i 'm when i 'm instead of pressing up on on a remote control . you know if there 's some there 's some dialogue all of a sudden that i ca n't hear , i 'm trying to actually find out what 's being said , project manager : yeah . user interface : so maybe speech recognition gets in the way more than it helps . project manager : okay so marketing : yeah but you know the the average frequency of pushing buttons , it 's about user interface : well it depends if it 's a remote control th marketing : it 's about eighty eighty eighty pushes per hour , or something like that . user interface : maybe if the remote control is something that y you do n't actually have to pick up anymore , that would be a a useful feature of the speech recogntion . marketing : user interface : if you can leave it sitting on the table and you do n't actually have to find it , then that could be . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : okay gentlemens , we have to take some deci decisions right now . industrial designer : alright . project manager : um so if i if i kind of summarise everything we 've de we we said . we are targeting tv . we need we need to have um um remote control which is fanc fancy , which is uh which is easy to to hand not too small , not too big . um we have marketing : with a good shape for the project manager : or good shape , yes . we should bring new technologies for young peoples , and uh as we have uh also requirements to to use uh to to push thr toward the internet . maybe this is something we can stick to it . and um also , a very interesting things i i i 've seen on on on the one of the comp o our competitor is this wheel that we can use to navigate . so so my feeling is that re regarding costs budget we have an an an target price , it 's not possible to go s to go to lcd and also to go to automatic speech recognition technologies . uh first m m why not to go to lcd . because um in fact as we are targeting uh tv in fact we can use tv screen as a screen to feedback to to give some feedback informations about what we could have . user interface : well it depends though well it depends . if we we do n't unless we have some input some video input to the tv or we have control over the tv then we ca n't actually display that . like if we if we produce the tvs then then yeah we can put you know menus up up there , but otherwise we need to actually have some kind of something sitting in between the video signal and the and the tv to superimpose those those menus . so that 's an extra project manager : yeah that 's right . don do n't you ha user interface : cost . project manager : do n't we have contacts with uh people on tv or or well systems that exist that we can use ? user interface : well this is this is another que we still have n't really defined the remote . are we still you say we 're focusing on tv , but is it still a kind of like a universal remote in that it 's a replacement remote control , or is this something for our own line of of televisions ? project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause that really makes a big difference . 'cause even if we have contacts we ca n't really produce a remote control that can bring up menus on other other companies ' tvs . it 's just there are too many tvs out there . it 's it 's not really gon na project manager : yeah . that 's good point . what 's what cou what could be the cost of uh well , could we fit the the targets uh in terms of cost uh if we go s to lcd on the remote control ? user interface : for twenty five euro ? i think it 's impossible . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it 's not possible . it 's impossible . user interface : but but i dunno , marketing : yeah . user interface : i think um it would be good to know if there is any leverage in that any leeway in that um that twenty five euro because for twenty five euro i think all we can really do is provide a very basic remote control , and that seems to be kind of against the philosophy of our company which is you know putting the fashion into electronics . so i would i would like to know if there 's any chance of of increasing the uh marketing : uh user interface : of increasing the unit price . project manager : so you mean yo you mean we we should target something maybe which is which would be more expensive but re really fancy in terms to um in terms to had to have really an added value ? marketing : what would be user interface : yeah . yeah . yeah project manager : okay , user interface : because yeah . project manager : so regarding the automatic speech recognition , i think this is marketing : wha but what would be one question , what would be the goal of putting an lcd in a remote control ? user interface : well th marketing : what what kind of information ? user interface : 'cause you can have things like the programme name instead of the channel numbers , like an interactive programme guide . marketing : yeah but mo most of the tvs nowadays show the show the project manager : they have tele teletext . well , because they have teletext on it . th th you have a teletext sin signal that you can that you can uh that you can get thr through the channel . marketing : yeah but yeah most of the tvs have teletext nowadays . project manager : they have t most of them have teletext , but we want to get rid well one of our requirements is to uh to move to teletext to uh to the use of internet . marketing : yeah . project manager : so to to uh user interface : you can get a lot more information on it . project manager : to browse more easily the teletext . for instance through uh through your remote control . marketing : so what would what would appear in the in the lcd ? user interface : so you could have the name of the programme , you could have um the start time you know where it 's up to . project manager : the ti the start time , all the p all the programmes you could have uh o user interface : you could have a l even a little image of you know the c you know the the m the main actors or something marketing : okay . user interface : so you can quickly just kind of even without reading project manager : well i do n't know if this information is available from teletext , also . user interface : well no , but there are the electronic programme guides out there . they may not have pictures , but maybe they do . industrial designer : are user interface : there 's dependi it also depends on the country . project manager : well because for the same reason that we can not uh informations on the tv . we c we could n't grab information information which is not there . user interface : no but i mean with the internet you have flexibility of where you get your information from . so it may be possible that there are people out there providing that . uh . project manager : so so that mean w w we need an in an extra internet connection to use the remote control , if you want to browse , in addition to the tv , or uh or it should be a special tv connected to marketing : but yeah . user interface : well i i think if we 're gon na i think we would definitely need the internet connection because even with y i do n't think you could even get teletext information from the tv onto the remote control , especially if we do n't control the tv . project manager : user interface : i dunno . we need to find that out . project manager : okay . we need to close the meeting . um so industrial designer : but just a small thing , project manager : very quickly . industrial designer : what kind of market we are targeting ? is it that we are targeting the replacement remote market , or what ? so the remote has gone bad and the person wants to buy a new remote or because the cost of lcd thing could be as high as the tv itself . that is very important . project manager : yeah , well people go to buy another remote control when they broke n broke their , user interface : if it 's a really small tv maybe . industrial designer : broke . okay . okay . project manager : and they want to go t for universal one , and they take the fanciest they can have . industrial designer : okay . okay . okay . okay . project manager : so this is that we z that that we should target . so the com the um the uh the committment is the following , we do n't go for speech recognition technology . the lcd is still on disc is still open to discussion . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : it is up to you to go through this um uh this way and to to report report me back next meeting . so marketing : i think that the speech recognition technology would be cheaper the than the lcd . industrial designer : it 's it 's cheaper as compared to the lcd . project manager : yeah , but not sure . maybe it 's cheaper , but we have no marketing : because with the lcd you need more requirements . you need a internet connection . you need m more things . user interface : well the thing is i think i think the type of peop marketing : for the speech recognition you you do n't need anything . you just say channel fifty , and that 's it . user interface : i think the type of people that are gon na want to buy a very stylish rem r remote control with lots of new technologies are the kinda people that are gon na have you know a wireless internet connection maybe , or a you know . marketing : but then we should move to another target b because at twenty five dollars , industrial designer : means th yeah twenty five euros is yeah , that 's right . user interface : well this is what we need to find out . marketing : it 's user interface : can we can we increase the the price point of this remote control ? 'cause otherwise we need project manager : okay this is this is an open question for you . yeah . this is uh up to you to tell us . but i 'm definitely not keen on to to marketing : to move to another target ? project manager : no no no , i 'm no i 'm definit definitely not keen on going to speech recognition technologies . i 'm not confident enough . i 'm not sure that that we 'll have a product really that work . i uh that work user interface : it 's kind of hard to guarantee that you 're gon na project manager : it 's real yeah . how to guarantee such performances is really hard . marketing : the expert uh said ninety five percent . industrial designer : project manager : well this is still is is very bad . user interface : ninety five percent is not good enough though . project manager : so , this is the end of this discussion . next meeting uh here are the task you have to work on . um so you have to work on the component uh concept . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> what did group mates think of a universal design suggested by industrial designer ? </s> industrial designer : well maybe it could be a universal design . marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : a universal design , which is which is good for both the hands . user interface : still shaped for yeah for your hand but not for a particular hand , right ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah ? that 's right , whether it 's left hand or right hand , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but but do n't you think that the two points are clashing , one thing you are saying design should fit the hand shape and it should not be very small ? marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : the first and the third point , they are clashing . user interface : well it can still be a , you can still extend past the hand . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : like uh industrial designer : so fitting the hand does n't mean much then . user interface : well it means like , this remote here is kind of is very thin and long so instead of having you know you might have it kind of a bit bigger industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : yeah , like user interface : or , you know , with maybe some some finger molds or something . industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm . project manager : industrial designer : so it means design should be similar to the traditional ones ? little sleek , longer ? and it should fit the hand . marketing : no no i was thinking of so like something project manager : something with the shape of the palm ? industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : some finger grips maybe . marketing : yeah . user interface : you could even have some buttons like you know on the sides and everything , project manager : on the sides . marketing : yeah yeah . it sh it should n't it should n't be symmetric symmetrical . user interface : but industrial designer : mm-hm mm-hmm mm-hmm . marketing : not anymore . that 's what yeah . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the incorporation of an lcd or a speech recognition system in the remote control ? </s> marketing : and finally , the incorporation of a lcd or a speech recognition system in the remote control could also be interesting , but i do n't know if the budget would be large enough . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . first i 'm just wondering about the lcd stuff because uh because marketing : but most of yeah most of the young people to thirty to thirty years old were really interested in this kind of technology . project manager : yeah , so maybe it 's a good time for me to uh to bring you to some new uh new informations . we had the new requirements from the so uh from the head offices of the company , and so they wanted so they want to um they would like to be restricted to tv . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , i dunno if you had this information already . no , so they want us to restrict the remote control to tv only because of time limitations . um they want also uh marketing : actually this marketing report is restricted to tv remote controls . </s>
<s> what 's user interface 's opinions toward marketing when discussing the transition to new remote control ? </s> user interface : so this would be pretty kind of a handy thing to have , but um we we really need t to discuss the price . so , i mean there are there are uh cheaper this is another multi kinda purpose remote control where it 's it 's it 's very simple , there 's only a few buttons , but al each of those buttons does something different in a different context . so this is something else we might wan na consider , is really kind of limiting the number of buttons , because this is the top rating uh universal remote control on on epinions . it it 's really uh maybe worth thinking about limiting the number of buttons as much as as possible um because really i think people want to be able to find the button they 're looking for without even looking at the remote control . and was saying before about having different size buttons for different you know frequently used uh tasks , but i think also you know the location and and shape of the buttons is important , but also the number of buttons . so if you have too many buttons it it it increases the the difficulty of finding the one you want . industrial designer : but there is one problem then the user has to understand each of that functionality . user interface : so project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah well we w industrial designer : because the same button is doing too many things . user interface : yeah well we will have a bit of a simpler uh task in that we 're only doing uh a television remote control . um i think maybe one option is to have you know a little flip-open um door that uh that you have hidden most of the time , but contains the extra buttons like , say , the number buttons for instance . um industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i i would if i had my perfect remote control , i 'd probably just have no numbers at all on it because they 're just in the way . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : they do n't really do anything . maybe you know i although i do also find flip-open doors a bit of a pain because sometimes they can break off or or whatever , but maybe a door that you can you can permanantly remove or permanantly have on would be good . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : um but i think definitely you need to to keep the buttons down to a minimum , but not not let that kind of interfere with the functionality of of the device . um marketing : h i think i think that the tr the transition to this to this new remote control should n't be very very abrupt very hard because w if people see a remo see the see a remote control without numbers mm they will think it 's very difficult to learn very difficult to very different build very different to the traditional industrial designer : it does sampling out of the . project manager : </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the scroll wheel suggested by user interface ? </s> user interface : yep . um okay , so , i think um one of the really kind of useful things you can do with with internet connectivity would be to have this a programme driven interface rather than the channel number . so if we can have a higher priced uh remote control i think that would really be worth uh something that would be worth implementing . um mm there 's the lcd screen , um which maybe maybe is too expensive , um but i think also at the scroll wheel , i have n't mentioned it here , the scroll wheel could be used without an lcd screen , just for changing channel numbers easily . i think even that , project manager : user interface : i mean , that would be a fairly cheap thing , compared to an lcd screen , to implement , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um but i think that would be quite useful as well . and the other thing , you say we need to we need to keep it just television , but i think one maybe one option , since this is supposed to be a kind of a fashionable device , is you know there 's a certain kind of cool or wow factor that you can kind of you can have with technology , and maybe we wan na make it something that 's extensible to do other tasks . say you have like um a little another little kind of base unit that can also receive signals as well as the television where you can , say uh , change the lighting in the room . you know that would be something maybe you could sell as an extra , so that it does n't have to be part of the initial development , but , you know , later on you could you can you know you also , selling the potential of the device . then you say potentially you can then do other cool stuff like change the lights , i dunno , close the windows , whatever , turn the heating on , and um , i think that 's something we may need to have as as at least as an optional extra to to kinda make our product cool , since we say we 're putting the fashion in electronics . project manager : okay . okay . okay , thanks . you want to go ? industrial designer : yep . so yeah . so most of the things which we are discussing about is speech recognition uh , that means on my own i project manager : this one ? industrial designer : yeah , it should be . project manager : great . no , not that one . you are two . alright . industrial designer : okay so the working design is uh user i interface could be of two types , one is the usual press buttons which are there so that the user feels that he is knoing doing some he is knowing about that technology . so he is pretty comfortable if he wants to get this , and on top of that there there could be a speech recognition technology also being sitting on the on the remote . so the old kind of users who do n't want to have any changes , it can it can be useful for them , and the new users , as uh our marketing expert was saying , they can use the new gizmo which is speech recognition kind of thing . project manager : okay , sorry to interrupt you , but we have seen before that there is a new way of interacting that use wheel . industrial designer : that 's right . so anyway , that did n't come into my mind , project manager : okay . industrial designer : so th that is a possibility . these could be other kind of interfaces . project manager : industrial designer : means we can have , depending on the cost , how much we can afford , we can have different kind of interfaces . so spe buttons are something which is very everybody is familiar with . so if you go to the market and you say that buttons are there the people know what it is , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and on top of that if we are having extra functionality people are willing to shell that twenty-five euros money which we are thinking . otherwise we are just like others in the market . so anyway that is the first , user interface could be of more than one type , and uh yeah that means we can do the on-line changes which which can not be done now actually . so apart from the speech , we can have the scroll kind of thing with the buttons . now for buttons , normal requirements like bit coding and all those things are required . and for voice , limited vocabulary automatic speech recognition system is required and we require a microphone also to be sitting there on the remote . project manager : yeah . that increases the the cost also . industrial designer : uh that 's right . but uh means we have to see how much what kind of microphones and stuff like that . project manager : do you think that performance of such systems are enough to to target well of such technologies is enough ? industrial designer : uh yes , if it is limited vocabulary usually it 's enough . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah we we can uh target , means we can target ninety five percent accuracy or somewhere ninety seven perc project manager : well wh uh i imagine also that the microphone will be an ambiance um a um an ambience microphones because you are not going to speak into into th into the remote control . industrial designer : that 's right . no it it could be little d yeah it could be project manager : so it could be s a few centimetres . user interface : well one one other thing that that speech recognition could really blow out the price for is uh when you want to sell into other markets , though , industrial designer : that 's right . that 's right . user interface : because , i 'm not sure exactly where we 're gon na sell this , but i presume it 's not gon na just be english speaking countries . project manager : yeah . user interface : so then you have to s you know , you have to train models for industrial designer : mm-hmm mm-hmm . uh it 's more like , means there are different speech technologies which are existing so d_t_w_ could be kind of which is the easiest . so you have to store some templates on the on the on the chip itself , and it 's just dynamic time warping where you try to find out what it is , instead of having a model which has to be trained and being a micro-controller . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . okay we shou we should discuss this la later after after after this this uh slide . industrial designer : yeah , that 's right . yeah . project manager : this is a this is a this is a a very important uh issue in discussion . industrial designer : so we can that 's right . yep . project manager : okay , next . uh that finished ? industrial designer : no no . components . project manager : components ? industrial designer : yeah . so , will you go to the next slide ? project manager : yes sure . user interface : industrial designer : yeah so this is the design which we are thinking so . we are having a power button and the switch , which is not much , user interface : industrial designer : and then we are having the which is to indicate whether the power is on or not . and then there are two kind of things which can be so one is the button interface which has not been shown because because of lack of time . user interface : industrial designer : so we could not put that . so now where the a_s_r_ decoder is sitting , similarly there are different kind of interfaces which could be there . so there is a_s_r_ decoder which could be there , and then there could be another scroll button scroll scroller , and then there could be buttons , and all of them they will just do the decoding and put it in the math put it in the proper message format . and then there is there is the chip which is sitting , the green one , and it converts it into bit codes , and that bit codes are sent by the infrared device to the receiver . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so this is the easiest design the there could be . so th an a_s_r_ decoder we can have things in . to have different technologies . so this was the my personal preference was that we can have a_s_r_ sitting there on the remote control . project manager : user interface : you know i guess you could actually train the remote control as you 're using it by saying you know turn volume up , and you press the uh press the button industrial designer : yeah . user interface : like uh s people teach sign language to kids f well , by speaking and doing industrial designer : yeah but uh as soon as you try to put the microchip kind of thing or something the price will go up . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so these are the slight problems . project manager : so your your opinion is that we should go for special condition technologies ? industrial designer : because yeah the reason is that if we go into the market means though i do n't have much idea , but as he the uh marketing expert presentation was marketing : i 'm sure if you can sell a a speech recognition remote control for twenty five euros everyo everyone will s will buy it . user interface : actually i 'm not so sure industrial designer : so if we go with just the user interface : because i 'm the marketing : i 'm sure . user interface : you know if i was using a remote control to , say , turn the volume up because i ca n't hear it very well , i do n't really want to you know drown out what people are saying by talking you know when i 'm when i 'm instead of pressing up on on a remote control . you know if there 's some there 's some dialogue all of a sudden that i ca n't hear , i 'm trying to actually find out what 's being said , project manager : yeah . user interface : so maybe speech recognition gets in the way more than it helps . project manager : okay so marketing : yeah but you know the the average frequency of pushing buttons , it 's about user interface : well it depends if it 's a remote control th marketing : it 's about eighty eighty eighty pushes per hour , or something like that . user interface : maybe if the remote control is something that y you do n't actually have to pick up anymore , that would be a a useful feature of the speech recogntion . marketing : user interface : if you can leave it sitting on the table and you do n't actually have to find it , then that could be . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : okay gentlemens , we have to take some deci decisions right now . industrial designer : alright . project manager : um so if i if i kind of summarise everything we 've de we we said . we are targeting tv . we need we need to have um um remote control which is fanc fancy , which is uh which is easy to to hand not too small , not too big . um we have marketing : with a good shape for the </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about speech recognition technology . </s> marketing : i 'm sure if you can sell a a speech recognition remote control for twenty five euros everyo everyone will s will buy it . user interface : actually i 'm not so sure industrial designer : so if we go with just the user interface : because i 'm the marketing : i 'm sure . user interface : you know if i was using a remote control to , say , turn the volume up because i ca n't hear it very well , i do n't really want to you know drown out what people are saying by talking you know when i 'm when i 'm instead of pressing up on on a remote control . you know if there 's some there 's some dialogue all of a sudden that i ca n't hear , i 'm trying to actually find out what 's being said , project manager : yeah . user interface : so maybe speech recognition gets in the way more than it helps . project manager : okay so marketing : yeah but you know the the average frequency of pushing buttons , it 's about user interface : well it depends if it 's a remote control th marketing : it 's about eighty eighty eighty pushes per hour , or something like that . user interface : maybe if the remote control is something that y you do n't actually have to pick up anymore , that would be a a useful feature of the speech recogntion . marketing : user interface : if you can leave it sitting on the table and you do n't actually have to find it , then that could be . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : okay gentlemens , we have to take some deci decisions right now . industrial designer : alright . project manager : um so if i if i kind of summarise everything we 've de we we said . we are targeting tv . we need we need to have um um remote control which is fanc fancy , which is uh which is easy to to hand not too small , not too big . um we have marketing : with a good shape for the project manager : or good shape , yes . we should bring new technologies for young peoples , and uh as we have uh also requirements to to use uh to to push thr toward the internet . maybe this is something we can stick to it . and um also , a very interesting things i i i 've seen on on on the one of the comp o our competitor is this wheel that we can use to navigate . so so my feeling is that re regarding costs budget we have an an an target price , it 's not possible to go s to go to lcd and also to go to automatic speech recognition technologies . uh first m m why not to go to lcd . because um in fact as we are targeting uh tv in fact we can use tv screen as a screen to feedback to to give some feedback informations about what we could have . user interface : well it depends though well it depends . if we we do n't unless we have some input some video input to the tv or we have control over the tv then we ca n't actually display that . like if we if we produce the tvs then then yeah we can put you know menus up up there , but otherwise we need to actually have some kind of something sitting in between the video signal and the and the tv to superimpose those those menus . so that 's an extra project manager : yeah that 's right . don do n't you ha user interface : cost . project manager : do n't we have contacts with uh people on tv or or well systems that exist that we can use ? user interface : well this is this is another que we still have n't really defined the remote . are we still you say we 're focusing on tv , but is it still a kind of like a universal remote in that it 's a replacement remote control , or is this something for our own line of of televisions ? project manager : yeah . user interface : 'cause that really makes a big difference . 'cause even if we have contacts we ca n't really produce a remote control that can bring up menus on other other companies ' tvs . it 's just there are too many tvs out there . it 's it 's not really gon na project manager : yeah . that 's good point . what 's what cou what could be the cost of uh well , could we fit the the targets uh in terms of cost uh if we go s to lcd on the remote control ? user interface : for twenty five euro ? i think it 's impossible . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it 's not possible . it 's impossible . user interface : but but i dunno , marketing : yeah . user interface : i think um it would be good to know if there is any leverage in that any leeway in that um that twenty five euro because for twenty five euro i think all we can really do is provide a very basic remote control , and that seems to be kind of against the philosophy of our company which is you know putting the fashion into electronics . so i would i would like to know if there 's any chance of of increasing the uh marketing : uh user interface : of increasing the unit price . project manager : so you mean yo you mean we we should target something maybe which is which would be more expensive but re really fancy in terms to um in terms to had to have really an added value ? marketing : what would be user interface : yeah . yeah . yeah project manager : okay , user interface : because yeah . project manager : so regarding the automatic speech recognition , i think this is marketing : wha but what would be one question , what would be the goal of putting an lcd in a remote control ? user interface : well th marketing : what what kind of information ? user interface : 'cause you can have things like the programme name instead of the channel numbers , like an interactive programme guide . marketing : yeah but mo most of the tvs nowadays show the show the project manager : they have tele teletext . well , because they have teletext on it . th th you have a teletext sin signal that you can that you can uh that you can get thr through the channel . marketing : yeah but yeah most of the tvs have teletext nowadays . project manager : they have t most of them have teletext , but we want to get rid well one of our requirements is to uh to move to teletext to uh to the use of internet . marketing : yeah . project manager : so to to uh user interface : you can get a lot more information on it . project manager : to browse more easily the teletext . for instance through uh through your remote control . marketing : so what would what would appear in the in the lcd ? user interface : so you could have the name of the programme , you could have um the start time you know where it 's up to . project manager : the ti the start time , all the p all the programmes you could have uh o user interface : you could have a l even a little image of you know the c you know the the m the main actors or something marketing : okay . user interface : so you can quickly just kind of even without reading project manager : well i do n't know if this information is available from teletext , also . user interface : well no , but there are the electronic programme guides out there . they may not have pictures , but maybe they do . industrial designer : are user interface : there 's dependi it also depends on the country . project manager : well because for the same reason that we can not uh informations on the tv . we c we could n't grab information information which is not there . user interface : no but i mean with the internet you have flexibility of where you get your information from . so it may be possible that there are people out there providing that . uh . project manager : so so that mean w w we need an in an extra internet connection to use the remote control , if you want to browse , in addition to the tv , or uh or it should be a special tv connected to marketing : but yeah . user interface : well i i think if we 're gon na i think we would definitely need the internet connection because even with y i do n't think you could even get teletext information from the tv onto the remote control , especially if we do n't control the tv . project manager : user interface : i dunno . we need to find that out . project manager : okay . we need to close the meeting . um so industrial designer : but just a small thing , project manager : very quickly . industrial designer : what kind of market we are targeting ? is it that we are targeting the replacement remote market , or what ? so the remote has gone bad and the person wants to buy a new remote or because the cost of lcd thing could be as high as the tv itself . that is very important . project manager : yeah , well people go to buy another remote control when they broke n broke their , user interface : if it 's a really small tv maybe . industrial designer : broke . okay . okay . project manager : and they want to go t for universal one , and they take the fanciest they can have . industrial designer : okay . okay . okay . okay . project manager : so this is that we z that that we should target . so the com the um the uh the committment is the following , we do n't go for speech recognition technology . the lcd is still on disc is still open to discussion . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : it is up to you to go through this um uh this way and to to report report me back next meeting . so marketing : i think that the speech recognition technology would be cheaper the than the lcd . industrial designer : it 's it 's cheaper as compared to the lcd . project manager : yeah , but not sure . maybe it 's cheaper , but we have no marketing : because with the lcd you need more requirements . you need a internet connection . you need m more things . user interface : well the thing is i think i think the type of peop marketing : for the speech recognition you you do n't need anything . you just say channel fifty , and that 's it . user interface : i think the type of people that are gon na want to buy a very stylish rem r remote control with lots of new technologies are the kinda people that are gon na have you know a wireless internet connection maybe , or a you know . marketing : but then we should move to another target b because at twenty five dollars , industrial designer : means th yeah twenty five euros is yeah , that 's right . user interface : well this is what we need to find out . marketing : it 's user interface : can we can we increase the the price point of this remote control ? 'cause otherwise we need project manager : okay this is this is an open question for you . yeah . this is uh up to you to tell us . but i 'm definitely not keen on to to marketing : to move to another target ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : i call this meeting to order . welcome to the 13th meeting of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . this will be a hybrid meeting . some members will be participating via video conference and some will be participating in person . in order to ensure that those joining the meeting via video conference can be seen and heard by those in the chamber , two screens have been set up on either side of the chairs chair , and members in the chamber can listen to the floor audio or to interpretation using the earpieces at their desks . before speaking , please wait until i recognize you by name , and please direct your remarks through the chair . for those joining via video conference , i would like to remind you to leave your mike on mute mr. ziad aboultaif ( edmonton manning , cpc ) : i have a point of order . the chair : can the member wait for the point of order until we finish the introduction ? mr. ziad aboultaif : there is so much noise in the background over there , mr . chair . the chair : that is a very good point of order . i want to remind everyone that when we speak , it is picked up . we have amazing speakersand an amazing speaker , but that 's a whole other storyand amazing microphones in the chamber , and they do pick up everything . i know there was some chatter going on in the background . i want to make sure everyone is aware of that . mr. aboultaif , that was a very good point of order . i appreciate that . for those joining us via video conference , i would like to remind you to leave your mikes on mute when you 're not speaking . also , please note that if you want to speak in english , you should be on the english channel , and if you want to speak in french , you should be on the french channel . should you wish to alternate between the two languages , you should change the channel to the language that you are speaking each time you switch languages . should members participating by video conference wish to request the floor outside their designated speaking times , they should activate their mic and state that they have a point of order . those in the chamber can rise in the usual way . please note that today 's proceedings will be televised . i understand that there are no ministerial announcements for today , so we 'll continue to the presentation of petitions , for a period not exceeding 15 minutes . i would like to remind members that any petition presented during a meeting of the special committee must have already been certified by the clerk of petitions . for members participating in person , we ask that they please come and drop the signed certificate off at the table once the petition is presented . the first petition goes to mr. manly , who is joining us via video conference . mr. paul manly ( nanaimoladysmith , gp ) : thank you , mr . chair . this is a petition that calls on the government to deal with helping our honey bees . they are crucial to our food system . they provide hundreds of billions of dollars worth of services to commercial agricultural crops and other ecological services every year , and the european union has put heavy restrictions on the chemicals that are affecting them , the neonicotinoids . this petition calls on the government of canada , for the sake of bees and our food security , to follow europe 's lead and adhere to the precautionary principle by banning the use of neonicotinoids in canada . the chair : the next presenter of petitions will be mr. genuis , who is very parliamentary and dressed from the waist up , i understand . mr. garnett genuis ( sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair , and that is all you need to see for the moment . canadians are horrified by the military report on the conditions of long-term care in ontario . it raises big questions about the choices facing seniors in certain situations , which is what makes this first petition particularly timely . i am tabling a petition related to bill c-7 , the government 's euthanasia bill , which seeks to dramatically remove safeguards that the government said were vital only a short time ago . when some people are living in deplorable conditions , we can not truly speak of them as having a choice of when they ought to die . especially in light of that new information , i commend this petition for the consideration of members of the house . the second petition is in support of bill s-204 on organ harvesting and trafficking , put forward in the senate . the bill would make it a criminal offence for a person to go abroad and receive an organ without the donor 's consent . this bill seeks to combat the horrific practice of forced organ harvesting and trafficking . the chair : the next petition presenter will be ms. may . ms. elizabeth may ( saanichgulf islands , gp ) : thank you , mr . chair , and greetings from saanichgulf islands . the petition i 'm presenting today is petition e-2509 , which has been duly certified . it relates to what i think many of us will regard as the real heroes of the last few months . in this pandemic , there have often been very underpaid and overworked front-line workers who receive minimum wage and nothing more , and who are of course deemed essential services . the petitioners have asked the government to implement a wage supplement as a temporary measure to bring the wages for those who are in contact with the general public and working in what has been deemed an essential service to no less than $ 20 an hour , in light of their service and the risks they 're taking for all of us . the chair : we have a point of order from ms . harder . ms. rachael harder ( lethbridge , cpc ) : mr . chair , the honourable member who just spoke brought up a great point yesterday . she said that when we present petitions , we are simply supposed to give one or two sentences before putting them on the table . i believe that was more than one or two sentences . the chair : i want to remind honourable members that when they are presenting petitions , they should be very concise with the prcis that they give up front , as opposed to going on for a long time . now we will proceed to statements by members for a period not exceeding 15 minutes , and each statement will be for one minute . we will start with mr. fonseca . mr. peter fonseca ( mississauga eastcooksville , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . today i am honoured to recognize the youth in my riding of mississauga eastcooksville who are part of the 52nd mississauga scouts . for over a decade , i 've had the great opportunity to join the scouts every year during the month of may for the door-to-door food drives . this year has been a lot different , owing to the covid situation , but our scouts are not used to saying the word impossible . david chant , head leader for their cub pack , reached out to share that the youth have found innovative ways to engage our community through a virtual food bank . i say a big thank you to scout leaders like david , who are strong role models for our youth , teaching them the importance of leadership , kindness and giving back . i 've always been amazed with the support within our community for the scouts ' food drive . david and his group of scouts raised over $ 46,000 worth of food last year for the mississauga food bank and the compass . again , i give a huge virtual high-five to all of our young scouts , who have taken the lead with lots of compassion and care . the chair : we 'll now go on to mr. richards . mr. blake richards ( banffairdrie , cpc ) : may 24 to may 31 is tourism week in canada . this annual celebration is a time for us to recognize the contributions and experiences of canada 's tourism industry . this is a very important industry , and this year 's tourism week is a little different from what it normally is . the ongoing coronavirus crisis has closed provincial and international borders to recreational travel , and tourism operators from coast to coast have been among the first and hardest hit due to the government-mandated lockdowns . clear criteria regarding border reopenings and health and safety requirements will allow hospitality and tourism businesses to sufficiently prepare to reopen . this includes rehiring employees , ordering supplies and putting together tour packages and marketing plans . operators do not need to be set back any further because of a lack of clarity around reopening . while this tourism week is not a celebration like the one we had expected , i anticipate next year 's celebration to be a celebration of an even stronger and more successful tourism industry in canada . the 1.8 million canadians whose jobs depend on a thriving tourism sector are counting on it . bonne semaine to tourism . the chair : we 'll go on to mr. rogers . mr. churence rogers ( bonavistaburintrinity , lib . ) : mr . chair , monday was a sad day in my riding of bonavistaburintrinity , and indeed our entire province . please join me as i offer sincere condolences to the families of the men who lost their lives at sea in a tragic accident off the coast of st. lawrence in placentia bay . ed norman , his son scott norman and his nephew jody norman all tragically lost their lives while fishing for crab this past monday . a fourth man , family friend isaac kettle , was also with them . after a courageous search mission by canadian coast guard auxiliary members and the department of national defence and provincial airlines , he is unfortunately still missing . we grieve with the entire town of st. lawrence as they mourn this tragic loss of life . mr . chair , i am sure the entire province of newfoundland and labrador , this parliamentary family and canadians from coast to coast to coast join me in thinking of these men , along with their friends and families , during this difficult time . thank you , mr . chair . the chair : we 'll now continue with mr.simard . mr. mario simard ( jonquire , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . i would like to speak to you today about a solid man who unfortunately passed away on may25 . we were greatly saddened to learn about the death of francisdufour . this builder of quebec 's political history drew his last breath at the age of91 , late sunday night . mr.dufour was the archetypal proud representative of my region who spent his entire life in jonquire . he first became involved in the alcan employee 's union in arvida , then continued his civic involvement at the municipal level as mayor , then in the quebec national assembly as the member for jonquire . he will be remembered as a man with deep ties to his community , a man of integrity , a people person , who dedicated himself to serving citizens and advancing the independence movement in quebec . on behalf of the people of the riding of jonquire and all the people of quebec , i offer my most sincere condolences to francisdufour 's family and loved ones . thank you . the chair : we are continuing with martinezferrada . ms. soraya martinez ferrada ( hochelaga , lib . ) : thank you , mr.chair . the pandemic has greatly affected montreal east , particularly the riding of hochelaga , which i represent . today , i 'd like to recognize the exceptional work of all the volunteers and organizations in hochelaga that are helping the more vulnerable populations , including anonyme , cap st-barnab , care montral , the cuisine collective hochelaga-maisonneuve , bouffe action , the centre communautaire hochelaga , chic resto pop , jojo dpannage , groupe d'entraide de mercier-ouest and many others . i 'd like to acknowledge the commitment of the merchants who have rolled up their sleeves , including the coop couturires pop , to make masks . i 'd especially like to recognize essential workers , especially attendants . allow me to offer our condolences to the loved ones of the attendants who have lost their lives to protect ours . the citizens of hochelaga are resilient and unified . i am proud to rise in the house to salute them . the chair : the next presentation will be by mr. cumming . mr. james cumming ( edmonton centre , cpc ) : mr . chair , i rise today to pay tribute to a great albertan and former parliamentarian , louise feltham , who passed away this monday after a lengthy battle with cancer . louise was an entrepreneur , a public servant and a force of nature . she inspired the family motto how hard can it be ? by creating communities and building several homes in her lifetime . in all that she did , louise broke glass ceilings . her many firsts included being the first woman to serve as a councillor in rural alberta , the first female reeve in rural alberta and the first woman born in newfoundland to serve in this chamber . she was the mp for wild rose from 1988 to 1993 . her son glenn served as the president of nait when i chaired the board . my thoughts and sympathies are with him , his wife tammi and the rest of their family for this great loss . her parliamentary family mourns with you today . some hon . members : hear , hear ! the chair : we will now go to mr. bagnell . hon . larry bagnell ( yukon , lib . ) : mr . chair , it is a great honour to speak to the house of commons today from whitehorse , yukon , here on the traditional territory of the kwanlin dn first nation and the ta'an kwch ' n council . as a great historic canadian event last week , yukon became home to canada 's first university north of 60 . yukon university will provide yukoners with educational opportunities closer to home , expand our research capabilities and expertise on the arctic and climate change and allow those who want to study northern and first nations governance to do so in the north . i encourage all students living in the northern half of canada to look at the many programs and degrees at yukon university to continue their studiesin some cases this year , virtuallyby remaining in the north . i want to congratulate the staff of yukon college , who spent the last decade working towards this transition , and especially the outgoing president , karen barnes . i wish her all the best in her retirement . thank you , merci , mahsi cho and sga senl . the chair : we 'll now go on to ms. hutchings . ms. gudie hutchings ( long range mountains , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . first of all , from the long range mountains , i too want to send my condolences to my colleague , mr. rogers from bonavistaburintrinity , on the tragic loss in st. lawrence . we 're all communities that rely on the sea , and we understand the importance and the tragedy , and the hard work it is being fishers . however , today , colleagues , i want to mention , as my colleague from across the way said , that it 's national tourism week , so please take the time to get out and thank the tourism and hospitality businesses in your ridings . most businesses around the world were hit hard by covid-19 . the tourism economy was hit very hard , especially seasonal and rural operations and the 1.8 million people the industry employs . however , this industry knows how to work hard . they know how to partner . they know how to look after their employees and their guests . they will find new and innovative opportunities and experiences . they will build new business and they will continue to attract visitors . we know that the domestic and local markets will recover first . i know that the operators in my riding are getting ready just for that . it 's exciting to speak with them about how they 're working on their new normal and how it 's going to be developed and implemented here in the long range mountains . remember too that many of our national parks are opening on june 1 , so get out and explore the park in your backyard . i look forward to working with the tourism industry association of canada , destination canada and my colleagues so that when we turn the corner of this pandemic , we are ready to rebuild a stronger tourism economy . friends , go out and discover the tourism treasures in your province . they need your support . tourism matters . thank you , mr . chair . the chair : mr.gourde , you have the floor . mr. jacques gourde ( lvislotbinire , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . some people were already too few in number and already burdened with heavy responsibilities even before the covid-19 crisis occurred . i would like to take this opportunity to express my admiration for the dedication of all the essential workers who stepped up in the riding of lvislotbinire . this crisis has created pressing needs and unprecedented emergencies . fine men and women committed to human dignity , volunteers , retirees , and you , who have wisely agreed to stay home , you have been part , to varying degrees , of this great equation to minimize the impact of the spread and avoid the worst . the snow has melted , the flowers have arrived . many children are happy to be able to expend their energy again ; our seniors are being cuddled , with great care , and our essential workers in the riding are still dedicated to the job . i say bravo , thank you and do n't give up , even though you have already earned your place in heaven . the chair : ms.bendayan . ms. rachel bendayan ( outremont , lib . ) : thank you , mr.chair . my father , who is now retired , was a researcher for over 40years . he was involved in many medical discoveries . from his laboratories at the univerist de montral , he worked with chum and the centre hospitalier universitaire saintejustine , renowned institutions in outremont . in fact , outremont is full of professors , scientists and researchers . they are quebeckers , canadians , who are at the forefront of discoveries that save and will save lives . since coming into office , our government has reversed the funding cuts to medical research and has invested billions in science . recently , we announced new funding for covid-19 research for fundamental science and supports for academic researchers . we are working very hard to find a vaccine for covid-19 , and our fundamental research is helping us to understand viruses that we do n't even know the names of yet . it is this work that will help us stay ahead of the curve rather than flatten it . to all our canadian scientists and to my dad , thank you . some hon . members : hear , hear ! the chair : we 'll now continue with ms. alleslev . ms. leona alleslev ( auroraoak ridgesrichmond hill , cpc ) : mr . chair , citizens in my riding of auroraoak ridgesrichmond hill are showing incredible compassion as they help their families , their friends and even strangers during this difficult period . they are our community champions . the aurora chamber of commerce and the richmond hill board of trade are helping businesses navigate in these difficult times . organizations like the steam project and ganesha temple are making and donating face masks for those in need . the aurora museum & archives is collecting artifacts to document the pandemic for future generations . the aurora farmers ' market is bringing local farmers and businesses to us , but this year with one key person missing . our community has lost one of the farmers ' market 's founders , our jam lady , jan freedman . we were deeply saddened by her passing , and she will be sorely missed . my sincere thanks to everyone who 's working to ease the burdens on one another during this crisis . it 's not easy , but this too will pass , and we will be stronger for it . in the meantime , stay safe , and let us all do our part to be community champions . thank you . the chair : mr.deltell , you have the floor . mr. grard deltell ( louis-saint-laurent , cpc ) : mr.chair , we all understand that a crisis like the one the world is currently experiencing generates deficits . we also know that a deficit is a bill we send to our children and grandchildren , which is why it is important to be prudent , to make wise choices and , above all , to know where we are going . it 's a shame that every time we ask the government a question , no minister can tell us how big the canadian deficit is . we are n't the only ones concerned about the deficit and the government 's lack of transparency . in fact , last tuesday , at a parliamentary committee meeting in the senate , the parliamentary budget officer made some very scathing remarks about the government . he said he was concerned . he said that there had to be a deadline or we 'd be heading toward taxation levels that have n't been seen in generations in this country because there is not a lot of ammunition left before we go into a large structural deficit . i 'm not the one saying it ; it 's the parliamentary budget officer . for weeks , almost every day , the prime minister has been announcing cash injections for canadians . we agree with that . however , hundreds of billions of dollars are being spent without any idea of the deficit . that 's why we 're sounding the alarm and calling on the government to be careful . the prime minister needs to know that we ca n't play santa claus every day , because the bills in january come in fast , and they are high . the chair : we will now go to mr. garrison . mr. randall garrison ( esquimaltsaanichsooke , ndp ) : mr . chair , making sure science informs our health policies is critical during a pandemic . that 's why i 'm so disappointed that the liberals have maintained the ban on blood donations from gay men and trans women . there is no science behind this ban . not only does it reinforce homophobia and transphobia , it also reduces our blood supply at this critical time . now we 've learned that the ban will also result in rejecting plasma donors , when plasma is so critical in emerging covid-19 research and treatment . more than 17 countries , including argentina , italy and spain , have no deferral period for men who have sex with men . they know that behaviour-based screening provides better security for the blood supply than discriminatory identity-based rules . i have asked the minister many times to lift the gay blood ban and i do so again today , but today i also call on the family and friends of gay men and trans women to step up now and donate blood in place of those of us who can not . when it comes to blood donations , we really should all be in this together . the chair : mr.desilets , you have the floor . mr. luc desilets ( rivire-des-mille-les , bq ) : good afternoon , mr.chair . i 've missed you , by the way . on another note , the emergency wage subsidy was created for people who fear for their jobs or their businesses . it 's for people who need it , not for millionaire political parties like the liberals and conservatives . in rivire-des-mille-les , as in many other ridings , we respond daily to businesses that do n't have access to it . unfortunately , there are people in our ridings who wo n't have the opportunity to hire staff this summer . there are businesses that are losing less than 30 % of their revenues ; they are losing29 % . these businesses wo n't have access to it . everywhere we look , there are businesses that are falling through the cracks . meanwhile , the liberals and the conservatives are getting the wage subsidy to fund partisan activities . i repeat : it is to fund partisan activities . the liberals and conservatives do n't even do it on the sly ; they do it openly . these two parties have raised millions of dollars since january . every dollar that 's taken comes out of the taxpayers ' pockets . it 's the workers ' money , not the political parties ' . it 's so embarrassing that it 's shameful , disrespectful and ridiculous . the liberals and the conservatives have to pay that money back . i think that 's obvious . for the bloc qubcois , its immeasurably clear . it 's a question of ethics , morality and respect for citizens . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. schmale . mr. jamie schmale ( haliburtonkawartha lakesbrock , cpc ) : thank you , chair . this week is paramedic services week , and i would like to take a moment to thank these men and women who work tirelessly at the best of times to protect and save lives . their efforts during covid-19 , like the services provided by many front-line workers in health care , such as personal support workers , doctors , nurses , janitorial and clerical staff , lab technicians and many others , have been extraordinary and truly beyond the call of duty . i hope this week all canadians will take a moment to thank a paramedic or any front-line health care worker in their community for the amazing services they have been called upon to perform and will continue to provide in the challenging days ahead . chair , i 'd also be remiss if i did n't mention another unfortunate consequence of the current pandemic , the cancellation of the kinmount fair , a renowned event that has been running since 1870 . this year the fair was to mark its 150th anniversary , but in true kinmount spirit , this heartbreaking decision will not deter organizers from planning an even bigger and better event in 2021 . the chair : now we will go to ms. dhillon . ms. anju dhillon ( dorvallachinelasalle , lib . ) : mr.chair , i 'd like to thank the members of the canadian armed forces from the bottom of my heart for their invaluable assistance in the long-term care facilities . their deployment came at a critical time , when many seniors desperately needed them . through the observations and testimonies of these members , we saw the extent of the nightmare that many seniors had endured for a long time . these are human beings who could not fend for themselves . they were treated with profound cruelty and carelessness . among many other loathsome details , they were left to starve , were abused and lived in filth , their cries of anguish ignored . they were tormented and left in their agony . there is no excuse for this . no one ever deserves to be treated the way they were . i am talking about humanity , about compassion and mercy . it is up to each and every one of us to make sure no elderly person is ever hurt in this vile manner again . i take this moment to honour these victims . the chair : before moving on , i want to remind the hon . members that , as the rules state , statements by members should be 60 seconds . that 's one minute . usually there are a few extra seconds , which does n't matter , but some of them have gone quite a bit over time , so starting monday we 'll be cutting them off at 60 seconds . i encourage everyone to practise them or take a look at them , and try to keep them within the 60 seconds so that we do n't go over our allotted time . we will now proceed to the questioning of ministers . i would like to remind members to speak fairly slowly so that the interpreters can understand what they 're saying . i know sometimes we get excited in the house and we speak a little quickly . just be conscious of it . i 'm sure it will be appreciated by the interpreters and those at home who are listening in , as then they can make out the important questions and answers that are being given in this chamber . we will go to our first question . we will begin with mr. barlow . mr. john barlow ( foothills , cpc ) : thanks , mr . chair . the government has consistently worked to shut down parliament and undermine personal sittings and has argued that the business of this country can be done by zoom . however , for work of the g7 the prime minister said , theres no question that in-person meetings ... are much more effective than even virtual meetings . by pushing to go virtual , is it the prime minister 's goal to make canada 's parliament less effective ? hon . chrystia freeland ( deputy prime minister and minister of intergovernmental affairs ) : mr . chair , it is absolutely not . in fact , i am pleased to be here in person meeting with members from across the country and pleased that our colleagues who live further away from ottawa than i do have the opportunity to join us . parliament plays an essential role in our democracy , and it 's the chair : we will go back to mr. barlow . mr. john barlow : mr . chair , that is exactly the point . this is n't parliament ; this is a committee meeting . we do not have parliament . this is a virtual committee . a saskatchewan producer called me and said that he tried to use the online agristability calculator . he said that most farmers ca n't use it , that in fact they ca n't put in their inventory changes . this means it will give them erroneous information . why is the agriculture minister touting this lifeline for farmers when it does n't actually work ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the agricultural sector is critical to our country , and the questions some of us have been asking around food security have reminded us how lucky we are , as canadians , to be living in an agricultural superpower . when it comes to the specific technical questions that farmers have , they should turn to the minister of agriculture and agri-food , who will be delighted to help . mr. john barlow : could the deputy prime minister tell me how much it cost to develop this online agristability calculator ? hon . chrystia freeland : what i can say is that we are very mindful of and very grateful for the extremely the chair : we 'll go back to mr. barlow . mr. john barlow : mr . chair , farmers have even hired accountants to try to navigate this shiny online calculator , but they 've been told they would go broke before they received any money . will the government admit that this is just a fig leaf before any actual assistance will come to canadian farmers ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , very many farmers , and certainly many of the farmers of my acquaintance , have worked with accountants for a very long time . farmers are sophisticated business people who deal in the futures markets every day . they run hugely important businesses the chair : we will go back to mr. barlow . mr. john barlow : mr . chair , it 's that kind of condescension that is so frustrating to canadian farmers . they should n't have to hire an accountant to figure out an assistance program . the last time i questioned the prime minister and the minister about the secret carbon tax data , they said that only part of it was secret and that the rest of it would be given to the house . i have yet to receive it . will that be tabled today , in both official languages , to justify to canadian farmers why the government has increased the carbon tax in the midst of a pandemic ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , what is condescending is to behave as if farmers are not highly sophisticated businessmen . they hire economists . they hire agronomists . they are at the cutting edge . i am proud of the sophistication of canadian farmers , and i 'm proud of the support we offer them . some honourable members : oh , oh ! the chair : i want to remind the honourable members that the background noise and the heckling really make it difficult for the members who are tuning in via zoom . i just want to make sure they 're aware of what they 're doing to our colleagues who are online . we will go back to mr. barlow . mr. john barlow : mr . chair , for 64 days the finance minister has failed to deliver on his promise to assist canada 's energy sector . small oil and gas companies still ca n't qualify for bdc loans , and last week 's announcement for large employers , in my opinion , was nothing of exploitive . if the government does n't fulfill its promise to provide support for the energy sector , it is in turn supporting unethically sourced foreign oil and costing good reliable canadian jobs . after 64 days , when will the credit options be available to canada 's small and medium-sized energy companies ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i agree with the member opposite about one thing : the energy sector and energy workers are absolutely essential to our economy , and we support them . one of the things i am most proud of is the $ 1.7 billion our government has committed to cleaning up orphan wells . that money today has created jobs in alberta , b.c . and saskatchewan . people are working because of it , and they are cleaning up their communities thanks to that support . the chair : mr.brunelle-duceppe . mr. alexis brunelle-duceppe ( lac-saint-jean , bq ) : mr.chair , i 'll try not to spend too much time . will the liberal party of canada pay back the money it took from the wage subsidy program , yes or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , the purpose of the wage subsidy is to support workers , help them keep their jobs and keep them connected to their workplace the chair : mr.brunelle-duceppe . mr. alexis brunelle-duceppe : mr.chair , i 'll take that as a no . in my riding , trillium media owns several weeklies . the company does n't qualify for the wage subsidy because it has suffered losses of28 % instead of30 % . the historic village of val-jalbert is in the same situation . does the liberal party of canada consider itself to be in greater financial difficulty than the historic village of val-jalbert and trillium media ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , allow me to remind the hon . member opposite what we 're doing to support canadians : more than 8million canadians have received the canada emergency response benefit . in addition , 635,000businesses have received loans through the canada emergency business account . mr. alexis brunelle-duceppe : mr.chair , i 'll take that as a yes . does my hon . colleague take into account the fact that the billions of dollars that are currently being handed out come from taxpayers ' pockets ? it even comes from the pockets of people who have lost their jobs and who pay taxes when they go to the corner store . on the other side of the house , is it considered justified for multi-million dollar parties to finance themselves with public funds , yes or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i would like to continue by reminding my colleague opposite what our government is doing today to support canadians and quebeckers : 293applications for the canada emergency wage subsidy have been approved . over 2million canadians today have the chair : mr.brunelle-duceppe , you have the floor . mr. alexis brunelle-duceppe : mr.chair , i 'll take that as a yes . it 's fantastic ! the money that the liberals are going to get from the wage subsidy is going to go directly into their election kitty . when they go to get their election expenses reimbursed , they 're going to get 60 % of that money back . so they 'll have made the wage subsidy work for them . the businesses that 'll have access to it wo n't , but the political parties will . does n't that contravene the canada elections act , yes or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , our programs do n't discriminate . they 're there to help all workers , to help all canadians , to help all quebeckers . the hon . member talked about companies and sectors that need more help . we agree with that . we think we all need to work together to continue to help canadians and quebeckers the chair : order . we are returning to mr.brunelle-duceppe . mr. alexis brunelle-duceppe : i do n't know how to take it this time . i did n't get it all . i think it 's necessary to stop , eject and throw the tape out , and provide an honest answer to the questions we ask . can my colleague across the way answer a very simple question ? are their employees going to be used for political fundraising and so , once again , make the generous wage subsidy they receive work for them , yes or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i want to point out something important when we talk about our work and our economy . the important thing is that we have put in place unprecedented economic measures that are absolutely urgent and necessary . that 's what we 'll continue to do . mr. alexis brunelle-duceppe : mr.chair , we 've already seen a duceppe who denounces the use of federal programs by the liberal party for the liberal party . can my hon . colleague tell me if she 's able to look the entrepreneurs in her riding in the eye and tell them that they do n't deserve the wage subsidy , because their loss of income is only28 % or29 % , while her party is dipping into the cookie jar , yes or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , i am absolutely willing to look into the eyes of the entrepreneurs and workers in my riding because they know that our government is doing a lot to help canadians in this historic crisis . our economic support program is the largest program in canada 's history the chair : we will now continue with mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : thank you , mr.chair . the canadian armed forces report showed the relationship between equipment costs and the lack of care for our seniors . will the government admit today that there is no room for profit in the care of our seniors ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , that 's a very important question , and i would like to thank the member for asking it . i think this is a historic week . all canadians have seen what is happening in ontario and quebec . we the chair : order . we 'll go back to mr.singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , experts and advocates have all pointed out that in the for-profit model of care for seniors , there is more emphasis on the bottom line than on care for seniors . will the liberal government admit that there is no place for profit when it comes to the care of our seniors ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i want to start by saying one thing , and that is to publicly thank , in this house , brigadier-general conrad mialkowski and his team for compiling the assessment that they did of long-term care homes in ontario . they acted with courage . they acted with compassion . what they did is historic , and we all need to the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : the canadian forces , of course , always deserve our thanks . however , they do n't need our thanks right now ; they need to see some action on what they have pointed out . the government owns revera , the second-largest long-term care provider in canada . it 's for profit , and it 's facing a $ 50-million lawsuit for negligence . what is the government doing to protect seniors in the long-term care homes that they own ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i agree with the member opposite that after what we have learned this week , all options must be on the table when it comes to how care for our elders will be provided in canada in the future . i think it is clear to us all that root-and-branch reform is necessary . we need to act with speed but not haste , and work with our provincial partners . mr. jagmeet singh : if all the options are on the table , will the liberal government commit to removing profit from long-term care , particularly in the revera long-term care homes , the second-largest number in canada , which the government owns ? will it commit to removing profit from long-term care ? hon . chrystia freeland : what we will commit to doand i hope with the support of all members of this houseis work very carefully and also very urgently in close co-operation with our provincial partners , under whose jurisdiction this falls , to ensure that these heart-wrenching reports mean that as a country we turn the page the chair : we 'll go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , revera is a crown corporation owned by the government , so let 's not hear excuses . is the government doing anything to ensure that seniors are cared for ? is it providing for robust inspections , yes or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i want to clarify one point in the member 's question . canadian crown corporations are not liberal , not conservative and not partisan . one of the strengths of canada is that we have non-partisan government institutions , and they serve us extremely well . our the chair : we will now go to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , right now the current government is responsible for revera . it is a crown corporation . will the government commit to ensuring there is no profit anymore in revera ? as we 've seen , it is facing a $ 50-million lawsuit , and there 's been horrible negligence . hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , as i said at the outset , the ownership structure of long-term care facilities needs to be on the table . everything does . i also want to emphasize how important it is for us to do what we have been doing , which is to work very closely with the provinces , under whose jurisdiction this falls . in just the past 24 hours , i have spoken with premier ford , premier horgan and premier moe , and our conversation included long-term care facilities . the chair : we 'll now continue with ms. vecchio . mrs. karen vecchio ( elginmiddlesexlondon , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . today i join critics from the ndp , the bloc and the green party who deal with women 's issues and gender equality to ask where the $ 75 million toward sexual exploitation and human trafficking has gone . last week organizations had to close their doors and the programs that help vulnerable women and girls , so the simple question is this : where is the money ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : mr . chair , let me begin by thanking the member for that very important question . i agree that human trafficking , which is a crime of coercion and exploitation , is unacceptable , and we have to ensure that we provide the supports necessary to the victims of this crime . as the member knows , we have launched a new , comprehensive national strategy to combat human trafficking , and we 've incorporated a new pillar in that strategy of empowerment to ensure that the focus the chair : we 'll go back to ms. vecchio . mrs. karen vecchio : with all due respect , it 's great that we have a strategy , but when money is not going to the doors of these organizations that provide these services , a strategy is nothing . it 's all talk and no action . where 's the money ? hon . maryam monsef ( minister for women and gender equality and rural economic development ) : mr . chair , let me pick up where my honourable colleague left off by acknowledging that trafficking is a heinous crime and that hundreds of organizations across the country are working to solve the challenges that come with human trafficking . i remind my honourable colleague that hundreds of organizations have received supports , and we will have more to announce to further support the chair : we 'll go back to ms. vecchio . mrs. karen vecchio : it 's so very simple . what should we tell the young women and girls looking for these supports right now ? what is the answer from the government ? hon . maryam monsef : mr . chair , no one should have to live a life with violence , whether it 's sexual , physical , financial or emotional , and that the government of canada the chair : we 'll go back to mrs. vecchio . mrs. karen vecchio : thank you very much . yesterday i happened to be part of the health committee , and the battered women 's support services representative was there as a witness . she shared with me that the organizations that she is associated with , over 500 organizations that deal with sexual assault and shelters , did not receive funding . can you explain why ? hon . maryam monsef : mr . chair , i want to thank angela and the team at the battered women 's support services . they are receiving funds through feminists deliver , but there are hundreds of organizations that will receive additional funds to provide the critical care that they need to support front lines and the most vulnerable in their communities , and we will have more to say soon . mrs. karen vecchio : mr . chair , we know that calls to centres like battered women 's support services have gone up by 300 times , so this is a huge concern i have . what made this group of assault services and shelters ineligible ? hon . maryam monsef : mr . chair , my colleague is putting words in my mouth . as i said , hundreds of organizations like the battered women 's support services are going to be receiving funds from the federal government in the coming days . we thank them for their work and we will have more to say very soon . mrs. karen vecchio : mr . chair , the need is now . for instance , at london abused women 's centre , calls are up by 45 % . i 've heard from communities where they 've gone up 200 % . as i said , yesterday i heard 300 % . the money is needed now . where is the money for this program ? hon . maryam monsef : mr . chair , some organizations are seeing demands up as high as 400 % with their capacity limited by 400 % . we 've centres and women 's shelters , and 700 have received funds , with more to come soon . i appreciate that this parliament includes consensus among all colleagues that feminism and supporting women the chair : we 'll go back to ms. vecchio . mrs. karen vecchio : if we 're talking about being a feminist government , i have one single question . yesterday the minister was not willing to answer the question , so i will ask the minister for women and gender equality . how can a feminist government support the wet'suwet'en first nation women whose titles were stripped from them ? hon . maryam monsef : mr . chair , it sounds like my honourable colleague wants to compare their record on advancing equality with ours . we are happy to do that , and the minister of crown-indigenous relations has been working very hard to move this historic agreement forward . mrs. karen vecchio : these women have lost their titles , and the decisions were made with the hereditary chiefs and not the elected chiefs . why is this government not standing up for these women hereditary chiefs who were stripped of their titles ? hon . carolyn bennett ( minister of crown-indigenous relations ) : mr . chair , i think the honourable member knows that the route to self-determination is to have first nations , inuit , and mtis determine their own governance and abide by their own laws . right now the wet'suwet'en nation is in that process of determining what kind of governance they would like . the chair : we 'll now go on to mr. sweet . mr. david sweet ( flamboroughglanbrook , cpc ) : thank you , chair . the uyghur human rights policy act has passed both houses of congress in the united states and is now on the way to the oval office for signature . what is canada 's position on this muslim minority being jailed and re-educated by the communist party of china ? hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : mr . chair , we are deeply concerned by the human rights situation faced by the uighurs and other minorities in china . this is an issue our government has raised directly with the chinese . canada has also repeatedly voiced its concerns at the un human rights council . we will continue to call on the chair : we 'll go back to mr. sweet . mr. david sweet : the burmese government is another being exploited by the cpc . their muslim minority was driven out and now languishes in bangladesh , which is a commonwealth partner in the midst of this global pandemic . what will canada do to answer the injustice done to the rohingya ? hon . mary ng : canada will always stand with human rights . canada has repeatedly voiced its concerns with the un human rights council . we will continue to call on the chinese government to ensure that human rights of all of its people , including the freedom of religion , are fully respected . mr. david sweet : yesterday the rubber-stamp national people 's congress passed the national security bill undermining hong kong 's autonomy and strengthening a grip of the communist party of china . will the prime minister condemn this law ? hon . mary ng : canada , with our international partners in the u.s. , australia and the u.k. , made a joint statement in which we are expressing our deep concern regarding china 's imposition of a new security law for hong kong . mr. david sweet : canada has an admirable history of doing the right thing and helping when the situation is bleak . the suez canal , cyprus , the fall of apartheid , child and maternal health in africa , and afghanistan are examples in my lifetime of how canada has weighed in significantly . why is the government letting down hong kong ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , with hundreds of thousands of canadians living in hong kong , we have a vested interest in hong kong 's stability and prosperity , the foundations of which are hong kong 's relative autonomy and basic freedoms . canada will always support and promote freedom of speech , freedom of expression and freedoms of the press around the world . mr. david sweet : i think the 300,000 canadians who are in hong kong want a little bit more than interest from the government . they 'd like some action . what exactly is the government going to do to help those 300,000 canadians who are in the breach between democracy and tyranny now ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , canada has expressed deep concern regarding china 's imposition of the new security law for hong kong . the proposed law would undermine the one country , two systems framework . we are going to continue to support and promote freedom of speech , freedom of expression and freedom of the press around the world . mr. david sweet : mr . chair , i have deep concern . after being fired at with pepper bullets and tear gas yesterday , 300 students were arrested in hong kong while peacefully protesting . where is the outrage from this government with regard to what the cpc is doing in hong kong ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , as we have said , we are deeply concerned about the arrests of political figures and about the law that has been imposed on hong kong . as we have said , canada will always stand up and support freedom of speech and freedom of expression . mr. david sweet : mr . chair , i 'm going to give the minister another opportunity to answer the third question that i asked . yesterday , the rubber-stamp national people 's congress passed the national security bill , undermining hong kong 's autonomy and strengthening the iron grip of the chinese communist party . will this government condemn that law today ? hon . mary ng : canada will continue to support hong kong 's high degree of autonomy and freedoms under the basic law and the one country , two systems framework . canada and our international partners , with the u.s. , australia and the u.k. , have made a joint statement deeply expressing our concern regarding china 's imposition of a new security law for hong kong . the chair : the floor goes to mr.lvis . hon . steven blaney ( bellechasseles etcheminslvis , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . some hon . members : ha , ha ! hon . steven blaney : i am pleased to represent the city of lvis , because it is a privilege , mr.chair . it is the city where alphonse desjardins , who spearheaded the largest financial cooperative movement , was born . i hope you will not take that away from my time . my question is for the minister of employment , workforce development and disability inclusion . on april8 , the minister announced measures for the canada summer jobs program . we thought it was to improve the program , but can the minister confirm that the budget remained the same between april7 and9 ? hon . carla qualtrough ( minister of employment , workforce development and disability inclusion ) : mr . chair , i can confirm that we have increased the wage subsidies for canada student jobs . we have added flexibilities , including the ability to have part-time work and the ability to have the jobs extended until february of next year . that said , the budget was not changed . it remains at 70,000 job placements for 70,000 students , with 100 % of them being subsidized at 100 % . hon . steven blaney : the minister confirms that the budget remains the same , but that by subsidizing each job more , they are reducing the number of jobs in the midst of the pandemic . why reduce the number of jobs offered by our businesses in the midst of the pandemic , when our young people want to work ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , i can assure the member , all members and all canadians that despite the fact that he 's singling out the canada summer jobs program , we also created an additional 76,000 jobs through our youth employment and skills strategy , with an additional 40,000 placements for students . i can assure the member that we are the chair : the floor goes to mr.blaney once again . hon . steven blaney : how many jobs are vacant right now ? the program is lagging behind compared to other years . why , and how is it that there is still money to be invested in our businesses to create summer jobs ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , we are not lagging behind whatsoever . we created flexibilities in canada summer jobs so that we can assuredly fill all of these 70,000 positions . we are rolling them out in waves . there are 45,000 jobs up on our job bank . i can assure young canadians that there is work for them there , and i encourage them to check out the job bank . hon . steven blaney : the minister confirms that there are delays in the midst of the pandemic , when the university year is over and businesses are waiting to hire young people . why refuse to create additional jobs this year under the canada summer jobs program , when businesses need them to adjust to the pandemic ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , i can assure you that we are not refusing to create any additional jobs . we 've increased the number of jobs funded through our government 's youth programs by over 100 % . there are a number of jobs . we 've added flexibilities into the canada summer jobs program to maximize that program in ways that it never would have been maximized had we not done this . i can assure the member opposite that we are doing our utmost to make sure that young people have good-quality job experiences this summer . hon . steven blaney : when the minister says maximize , she is actually saying that there are fewer jobs this year for young people because the budget has remained the same , but that each position is funded more . my question is very simple : why not fund more jobs through the canada summer jobs program instead of having open-ended programs like the canada emergency student benefit , which does not allow young people to get work experience ? we need young people and they want to work . hon . carla qualtrough : i agree , absolutely , that we need young people to work this summer . that 's why we 're creating a number of opportunities through a number of programs , mr . chair . canada summer jobs is being maxed out , and that 's a good thing , because we 've increased the number of jobs and added an additional 76,000 jobs . i can assure the member that we 're creating so many jobs , and it 's so exciting for our young people . hon . steven blaney : the canada emergency student benefit does not encourage young people to go to work , and employers have difficulty hiring them . yet they had applied for the canada summer jobs program . why not enhance the canada summer jobs program ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , i 'm sure the member opposite is not implying that offering young people income support that they take out of necessity will make them not want to work . young people want to work . they want to serve in their communities . that 's why we 're creating these additional jobs beyond the canada summer jobs program . that 's why we 've increased the flexibilities in the canada summer jobs program . it 's so we can maximize these programs . the chair : we 'll go to ms. gladu . ms. marilyn gladu ( sarnialambton , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . yesterday my colleague asked the minister of public safety a question , and he did not get a good answer . why are asylum seekers being allowed to cross the closed border and reunify with their families when canadians are not being allowed to reunify with their counterparts in the u.s. ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , to correct an error that was just repeated , we have put in rules that have excluded people from non-essential travel . we currently have an agreement with the united states that people crossing our border irregularly are being directed back to the united states . we 've put in protection for those individuals to uphold our international obligations . we 're continuing to deal with the the chair : we 'll go back to ms. gladu . ms. marilyn gladu : mr . chair , i have in my riding a pregnant woman who is having her first child . the father of the baby is not being allowed to come over . i have another citizen who 's married to an american woman who needs medical services every three weeks who is not being allowed to go over and come back . i also have parents who have not seen their children in months because they 're not allowing custody arrangements between canadians and americans to continue . will the minister create exemptions to allow the reunification of these canadians with their family ? hon . bill blair : i thank the member for an important question . it is never our intention to keep families apart . at the same time , we are exercising all due diligence to ensure that we prevent non-essential travel to protect the health and safety of canadians . we 've been working very hard to ensure that we have a solution for those individuals who need and want to reunite with their families . we will have further information on that as soon as we 're able to resolve that difficulty . ms. marilyn gladu : mr . chair , the minister of agriculture has known there 's been a capacity issue on cattle processing for more than a year and has done nothing . we do n't have a bse exemption that would allow us to use american processors , and there 's been no incentive to create additional capacity to process . how bad does it have to get for the minister to act ? hon . marie-claude bibeau ( minister of agriculture and agri-food ) : we have done a great deal for the meat sector lately . we have invested $ 100million in the beef and pork sectors through the agrirecovery program . that 's a significant increase , because in the last few years the program has provided between $ 7million and $ 15million only . that is significant . we have also invested $ 77.5million to improve the capacity of processors the chair : we 'll go back to ms. gladu . ms. marilyn gladu : it still has n't solved the problem . that 's not a beef burger ; that 's a nothing burger . what is the minister going to do to help the cattle farmers who are struggling , especially in this pandemic ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , once again , we have helped the meat sector through the agrirecovery program and we have put in place a $ 77.5million program to help meat processors deal with the situation and reorganize their work environment in a way that is safe for workers the chair : we will go back to ms. gladu . ms. marilyn gladu : it 's not enough for the farmers in my area . to the minister of national revenue , i 've had complaints from seniors in my riding that paper tax filings are not being processed . they 're sitting on desks because people are not going in to the office . when will we begin to process those paper tax filings so seniors can get the refunds they need ? hon . diane lebouthillier ( minister of national revenue ) : mr.chair , we consider this to be a difficult situation for canadians , and our government will do everything it can to support them . i can confirm that the cra is still processing paper returns , but because of the reduced staff on site and the physical distancing , canadians can expect delays . we regret the inconvenience this causes for those who file their returns on paper the chair : we will go back to ms.gladu . ms. andranne larouche ( shefford , bq ) : mr.chair , i have a point of order . the sound is not very good . this happens when ministers respond in the house . the chair : we will talk to the technicians about that . i 'm not sure whether there 's anything we can do now , but we 'll see if we can sort it out for the next meeting . it will certainly be fixed by next monday . in the meantime , we will do our best . thank you very much for your comment . we go back to ms. gladu . ms. marilyn gladu : mr . chair , obviously with covid , many people are struggling with the loss of loved ones and their grief . the canadian grief alliance has submitted a proposal looking for a very modest sum of funding from the government to extend their virtual grief counselling . can the minister of health let us know if that funding has been approved ? hon . patty hajdu ( minister of health ) : i 'm not aware of that specific proposal , but i commit to asking my officials to bring it forward to me and i will take a look . the chair : ms. gladu , you have time for a 15-second question . ms. marilyn gladu : many are struggling with mental health in this pandemic . can the minister of health tell us what she is doing to increase the capacity to help people who are suffering ? hon . patty hajdu : i know i do n't have much time , but let me repeat our infomercial to canadians . they should visit wellness together canada , the portal that will provide access for canadians to a variety of mental health supports , including connection to professionals . the chair : mr.champoux , you have the floor . i 'm sorry , mr.champoux ; you are next . mr.waugh now has the floor . oh , it 's mr. waugh . my apologies . mr. kevin waugh ( saskatoongrasswood , cpc ) : thank you , chair . major events and mass gatherings being really out of the conversation for the foreseeable future , many event venues right now , such as concert halls and fairgrounds , are looking at the possibility of going more than a year without any revenue . many are owned or managed by non-profit organizations . i can think of many in my riding , such as the saskatoon fringe festival , shakespeare on the saskatchewan , the jazz festival , the folk festival , along with wdm and the aviation museum . can the minister of canadian heritage tell us what support has been made available to date to these organizations that are left up in the air ? hon . steven guilbeault ( lauriersainte-marie , lib . ) : as the member knows , we have done a number of things in the past weeks to help the arts and culture sector . we could talk about the canadian emergency response benefit , or the wage subsidy . we have provided advance help to a number of organizations from canadian heritage programs or the canada council for the arts on top of the $ 500-million program , which has started to be deployed and will continue to be deployed in the coming weeks specifically for these types of organizations . mr. kevin waugh : many media organizations are struggling . the reality only makes the allegations of predatory behaviour being levied against the canadian broadcasting corporation even more disturbing . i asked the minister on may 7 about these allegations , and he said he had not been informed of the allegations but would look into them . we ca n't afford to have a crown corporation using its status to try to wipe out its competitors in this country . has the minister begun the investigation into the canadian broadcasting corporation , and does he have any information that he can share with us here today ? hon . steven guilbeault : as the member said , these are allegations , and as you well know , the canadian broadcasting corporation is an independent body . it 's not controlled by the minister of canadian heritage or the government . mr. kevin waugh : well , these allegations were in the national post on april 22 . i brought this up to you on may 7 when i talked virtually . even more interesting , mr . chair , is that these allegations against the canadian broadcasting corporation came from an organization in the minister 's own province of quebec , so can the minister take action to address any predatory behaviour on behalf of the cbc , or can the government 's friends at the cbc simply get away with anything ? hon . steven guilbeault : allegations are allegations , whether they are made in quebec , ontario or alberta . as i said , the canadian broadcasting corporation is an independent organization . mr. kevin waugh : when i last rose , on may 7 , the committee responsible for the government 's massive $ 595-million media bailout package had not met . it is now three weeks later . has the committee met ? if yes , when can the media organizationsand i hear there are only 29 publishersexpect the support promised ? if it has n't met , when is it going to meet ? hon . steven guilbeault : as the member is well aware , this program is a tax-break program . in order for organizations to qualify , they had to file their income tax forms , which they have done over the last few weeks . the program is in place , and we are confidant that media organizations will receive the money by the end of the summer . the chair : mr. waugh , go ahead with a 20-second question , hopefully . mr. kevin waugh : there was $ 30 million rolled out to media organizations , some 1,400 organizations . yesterday postmedia announced another 40 layoffs . has the $ 30 million been distributed so far in this country to all 1,400 media organizations ? the chair : honourable minister , go ahead for 20 seconds or less , please . hon . steven guilbeault : thank you , mr . chair . i would be happy to provide the list of those 1,400 media organizations that have received funding through that ad campaign . the chair : we will continue with mr.champoux . you have the floor , mr.champoux . mr. martin champoux ( drummond , bq ) : mr.chair , i 'm feeling generous today , and i will be sharing my time with my colleague from pierre-boucherlespatriotesverchres . at the beginning of the crisis , the government called on entrepreneurs in quebec and canada , inviting them to set an example in the situation we are experiencing . many of them turned to the supplemental unemployment benefit plan to maintain the employment relationship and to preserve some security , enabling their employees to get through this difficult period with more peace of mind . however , on may22 , despite the fact that these entrepreneurs had made sure that the sub program would still be in place when the cerb was introduced , they were surprised . employees were told at that time that they would have to repay the cerb because of the alleged gains they had made under the sub program . at soprema , one of the large employers in the drummondville region , 150employees are affected . at bridgestone , in joliette , 1,100employees are affected by this decision . at goodyear , in valleyfield , 150employees are affected , and there are dozens more . does the minister intend to correct this mistake so that employers who are able and willing to do so can treat their employees better during this difficult period ? hon . carla qualtrough : when we put in place the canada emergency response benefit , the underlying goal was to make sure that every worker who needed it had access to income support as they were losing their employment for covid reasons . we understood that meant some workers would not have access moving forward , although let me clarify that sub plans that existed prior to march 15 are definitely in place . we consider the fact that workers have access to $ 1,000 a month in addition to cerband we 've spoken with employers about thisto permit employers to assist their employees in an equitable way . the chair : mr.champoux , you have 15seconds for your question . mr. martin champoux : mr.chair , employers received absolutely no news from the government before this measure was implemented , despite the fact that they were assured that this measure would be transferred to the cerb . that 's not an answer when those folks acted honestly and in good faith . they feel cheated , and rightly so . does the government intend to fix this mistake , which would simply be the right thing to do ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , i can assure the member opposite that the sub plans that were in place prior to march 15 are indeed in place now . in addition , employees who are now on the cerb as an alternative have access to $ 1,000 of income in addition to their cerb . we are working with employers to perhaps provide the $ 1,000 in lieu of the sub plans . the chair : we will continue with you , mr.barsalou-duval . mr. xavier barsalou-duval ( pierre-boucherles patriotesverchres , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . on april27 , option consommateurs sent a letter to the minister of transport to warn him that the airlines ' refusal to reimburse their customers for cancelled flights was contrary to quebec 's laws . what is the minister going to do to put an end to this situation ? hon . marc garneau ( minister of transport ) : mr.chair , i sympathize with the people who would have preferred to get a refund , and i understand their frustration . it is not an ideal situation . the airlines are going through a very difficult time right now . if they were forced to refund their customers immediately , many of them would go bankrupt . mr. xavier barsalou-duval : mr.chair , the minister sounds like a broken record . a few hours ago , the following motion was passed unanimously : that the national assembly ask the government of canada to order airlines and other carriers under federal jurisdiction to allow customers whose trips have been cancelled because of the current pandemic to obtain a refund . what will the minister of transport tell the national assembly of quebec ? hon . marc garneau : mr.chair , as my hon.colleague knows , the canadian transportation agency has ruled on this issue and has ruled that , in the present circumstances and in a non-binding way , it is acceptable for airlines to offer credits for up to two years . in the case of air canada , the credit has no expiry date . the chair : mr.barsalou-duval , you have about 15seconds for a question . mr. xavier barsalou-duval : mr.chair , i find it rather odd that the minister of transport and the canadian transportation agency are telling the airlines that quebec 's regulations and laws are not important and that they can override them . it seems to me that this is a strange way to operate . theoretically , under the famous canadian constitution , which they imposed on us , that is not how it should work . can they uphold their own constitution ? the chair : the hon . minister can answer in 15seconds or less , please . hon . marc garneau : mr.chair , as my hon . colleague probably knows , the canadian transportation agency is a quasi-judicial body that operates at arm 's length from transport canada and the government of canada . the chair : we will now take a short break . we 're going to take a short break to allow employees supporting the meeting to switch in safety , including myself . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ( simcoe north , cpc ) ) : we will now carry on with mr. baker for etobicoke centre . mr. baker , go ahead . mr. yvan baker ( etobicoke centre , lib . ) : mr . chair , i 'll be sharing my time with the member for glengarryprescottrussell . my question is for the minister of health . minister , in etobicoke centre , we are mourning the loss of 42 residents to covid-19 at the eatonville care centre . this week , we received a disturbing report from the canadian armed forces documenting appalling and completely unacceptable conditions in the eatonville care centre in etobicoke , orchard villa in pickering , altamont care community in scarborough , hawthorne place in north york , and holland christian homes grace manor in brampton . it is beyond reprehensible that our seniors are being treated this way . as i said in the house of commons on may 7 , we need immediate action and comprehensive reform of long-term care . the four other mps who represent the residents of these homes and i wrote to premier ford yesterday to urge him to appoint a third party manager to oversee all operations , to call a full public inquirybecause a government commission is not enoughand to work in partnership with the government of canada to establish enforceable national standards for long-term care homes across our country . minister , will you call on the government of ontario to establish a full public inquiry , and will you work with provincial governments to establish and implement enforceable national standards for long-term care homes across canada so that our seniors from coast to coast to coast can receive the quality of care they deserve ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . patty hajdu : thank you very much , mr . chair . i thank the member for his very important question . i think all canadians were horrified , shocked and saddened to hear about the conditions that elders were living in in those particular homes and that many seniors struggle with across the country . there is no question that we have to do better for our seniors . i know the prime minister has been very vocal about the need to do more to support provinces and territories to provide better care for seniors , no matter where they live . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr. baker , you have another 20 seconds or so if you can manage that . mr. yvan baker : thank you . i 'll pass on my time to the member for glengarryprescottrussell . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to mr. drouin , member for glengarryprescottrussell . mr. francis drouin ( glengarryprescottrussell , lib . ) : mr.chair , we know that farmers across canada have been going through some difficult times in recent months . in my riding , farmers are looking for labour and young people are looking for jobs . the canada summer jobs program plays a vital role in meeting this demand . i was very pleased to hear that the government has enhanced the youth employment and skills strategy program to help create 700new jobs for young people in the agriculture sector . can the minister of agriculture and agri-food tell us when and how our farmers will be able to apply for this new program ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , in these unprecedented times , our producers are working that much harder to feed canadians while facing challenges that are not always easy , particularly in terms of access to labour . to help them , this week , the prime minister announced an increase in the youth employment and skills strategy program to help young people be hired in the agricultural sector . this is a $ 9.2-million investment that will help to attract young canadians between the ages of15 and30 and to provide them with an exceptional experience in the agricultural sector . i encourage all producers to apply through the agriculture canada website . mr. bruce stanton : i think you finished , mr.drouin . we 'll move on now to mr. johns , courtenayalberni . mr. gord johns ( courtenayalberni , ndp ) : mr . chair , i 'll be splitting my time with the member for winnipeg centre . in early april , the ndp asked for a commercial rent abatement program so that tenants could apply for help instead of depending on their landlords , but the government chose to leave commercial tenants helpless if their landlord ca n't or does not want to apply . on monday we wrote to ministers again , asking them to negotiate a nationwide moratorium on commercial rent evictions with the provinces and territories so that tenants ca n't be kicked out . will the minister take action to ensure that no small business owner is evicted during covid-19 ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . bill morneau ( toronto centre , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . we recognize the challenges that small business owners in particular , as well as landlords , are facing during the course of covid-19 . we have worked together with the provinces to come up with an approach that would provide an incentive for landlords to give a rent reduction to commercial tenants . we opened that as of monday . of course , we recognize that this is a jurisdiction of the provinces , so it will be up to the provinces to consider the next steps , if any , in this regard . we are looking toward seeing many landlords sign up for this . i would like to take this opportunity to encourage landlords to sign up for this , which not only gives them a sense of security but also their tenants . mr. gord johns : that 's a no , so the government is still failing small businesses . if small business owners ca n't make june rent , thousands will have to close permanently . if the government wo n't negotiate a moratorium , will it at least let tenants apply for the canada emergency commercial rent assistance program so they can get help with 50 % of their rent ? hon . bill morneau : again , mr . chair , i think it 's important that we have clarity of understanding of jurisdictions . we have worked with the provinces in this regard . the federal government is working through the cmhc to provide support to landlords , which is conditional on their working with their tenants , but of course , it is a provincial area of jurisdiction , so any further actions and any decisions on restricting evictions are in the provincial jurisdiction and not ones that the federal government is able to move forward on . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to ms. gazan , winnipeg centre . ms. leah gazan ( winnipeg centre , ndp ) : mr . chair , they talk about wanting to support small businesses , but their failure to make rent support work is putting businesses out of business . when it comes to the rent for people 's homes , the government did n't even try . many people in my riding could not make rent on april 1 and may 1 , and june 1 is coming up . when will the government act to ensure that families and individuals make their rent payments ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , for individuals , of course we 've worked hard to provide support . over eight million individuals are taking the canada emergency response benefit . for businesses , of course , we 've put in place not only the business account for small businesses but additional support through the wage subsidy program . we know that the rent approach is one that can have an important impact . i would encourage landlords to ms. leah gazan : mr . chair , i have a point of order . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : ms. gazan , just a moment . go ahead on your point of order . ms. leah gazan : i just want to remind my honourable colleague that his response is supposed to be within the same time period as the question i asked . it 's just a friendly reminder . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : that is accurate . in fact , the minister was just coming up to the same amount of time it took for your question . i am monitoring that , and we will interrupt if one of the ministers responding goes more than just a short time over . in fact , we try to cut it off at the appropriate time , allowing a word or two perhaps to finish a phrase , and that 's the extent of it . i 'll watch that closely , the member can be assured . let 's go ahead then and finish up . you have another minute and 20 seconds to finish up , ms. gazan . ms. leah gazan : mr . chair , winnipeg centre is the third-poorest riding in the country , and covid-19 has put many of the residents in my riding on the verge of homelessness . instead of bailing out its corporate buddies , when will this government provide proper rental assistance so that families and individuals do not end up on the streets ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : mr . chair , we have provided support for families and individuals to maintain their ability to pay the rent . in addition to that , we have provided over $ 157.5 million directly to community entities for homelessness all across canada . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : ms. gazan , you have about 40 seconds remaining . ms. leah gazan : mr . chair , adequate housing is a fundamental human right , especially in this time of crisis . how can the government not show leadership and provide the support that people need to afford their homes ? will this government provide support , yes or no ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , once again , we have provided support to families and individuals so that they have the ability to pay their rent and pay for essential supplies and expenses . in addition to that , we have moved additional dollars , in the amount of $ 157.5 million , to the most vulnerable , including the homeless population in canada . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will now go to ms . harder from lethbridge . ms. rachael harder : as this pandemic began to spread , the government propagated china 's talking points about how human-to-human transmission was impossible . now , i 'm sure that the minister regrets those comments . does she acknowledge that they were misleading ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , the member opposite 's continued lack of awareness of how science works is somewhat disconcerting . i 'm sure she understands that this is a novel coronavirus that appeared on the scene in late december , and as the research community worldwide struggled to keep pace with understanding how the virus was adapting , the information changed . as such the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go back to ms . harder . ms. rachael harder : i 'm simply wondering if the minister would like to do the honourable thing and acknowledge that that information was misleading . some hon . members : hear , hear ! hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , since the very beginning , we have been advising canadians that they need to protect themselves from the novel coronavirus . we have taken strong measures , as a country , to do so . we respect the professionals the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll go back to ms . harder . ms. rachael harder : the minister also said that face masks were n't necessary , that they would n't help canadians . would she acknowledge that that was misleading ? an hon . member : good question . hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , the party opposite , obviously , does not understand the way that research and science evolve . the member opposite is propagating information that 's misleading . she is the one who is confusing canadians . ms. rachael harder : why is the health minister misleading the canadian public ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , as the evidence changed about the novel coronavirus , as our amazing researchers gave us new evidence , we adapted to adjust our advice to canadians . ms. rachael harder : why is the minister not able to acknowledge that she fed the canadian public misinformation ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , why is the member not able to understand that science evolves with new information ? ms. rachael harder : back in january when we started noticing other countries closing their borders to stop the spread of covid-19 , conservatives asked the government if it would do the same . in response , the prime minister called us racist . does the prime minister still consider those who called for the closure of borders racist ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , providing misleading information to canadians is not appropriate . as the member opposite knows , we took strong measures at the border , as recommended by the international health regulations , and we were able to contain the virus for quite some time . ms. rachael harder : i can not agree with the minister more that providing misinformation is , in fact , incredibly wrong , which is why the government should simply apologize to the canadian public for telling them that there was no emergency at our doorstep , that they did n't need to wear face masks , that we did n't need to close our borders , that human contact or contraction was impossible . those are incredibly misleading statements . why will the minister not just do the honourable thing and retract them and apologize to the canadian public ? some hon . members : hear , hear ! hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , i maintain that the member opposite does not understand that as new evidence comes forward , that as new advice comes forward ... . canadians understand that . i am unsure why she does n't . ms. rachael harder : i understand that knowledge evolves . i 'm just wondering if the minister will retract the statements that she made previously , now that she understands that they are misleading . hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , i am so proud of canadians for being able to adapt to new evidence and public health advice as it becomes clearer and clearer what kinds of actions can protect our health . i want to thank all canadians for having trust in the public health officials across this country . ms. rachael harder : on february 3 , conservatives called on the government to treat this virus as a public health emergency and to take immediate action . unfortunately , minister hajdu scolded conservative mps , stating that we were spreading misinformation and trying to sensationalize the risk of the virus . would the minister like to apologize to the members opposite for that statement ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , very early on it was quite clear there were members of our community who were stigmatized by misinformation that was floating around in various circles in the canadian community . we took strong action to assure those canadians that we would be with them as we also fought the coronavirus in canada . ms. rachael harder : would the minister like to retract her statement that this side of the house somehow blew this up into something bigger than it is ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , as early as january 2 , dr. tam was convening members of the canadian medical community to ensure that we would have a robust canadian response to an issue of potential concern . we have taken this virus seriously every step of the way . ms. rachael harder : in truth , mr . chair , while the government has told the canadian public that the virus was not something to be concerned about , that we did n't need to close the borders and that face masks were n't necessary , they were misleading the canadian public . now they are crowning themselves as the arbiters of truth , spending millions of dollars to censor what information is and is not available online . would the minister like to respond to why she is misleading the canadian public and then crowning her head with the ability to monitor the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 're out of time . the honourable minister . hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , i want to thank our public health officials and medical community for their incredible work in ensuring that canadians have accurate information about how best to protect themselves . we continue to work with the community and canadians . together we have managed to flatten the curve to date . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : i invite the honourable member for mganticl'rable to take the floor . mr. luc berthold ( mganticl'rable , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . one million dollars is the cost of installing air conditioning for a number of rooms in a chsld ; it is a new fire station ; it is 200more student jobs for day camps in quebec . with $ 1million , the liberal government plans to give an annual bonus to the president of the canada infrastructure bank . does the minister of infrastructure agree with the bank 's board , which is being so generous to its president with canadians ' money ? hon . catherine mckenna ( minister of infrastructure and communities ) : mr.chair , i am very proud of what our government has done to invest in communities across the country . we are investing in infrastructure . we are building by investing in renewable energy , green infrastructure and public transit , including in the member 's riding . that is what we will continue to do . i am very proud that michael sabia has decided to join the canada infrastructure bank . we are going to continue our work . mr. luc berthold : mr . chair , could the infrastructure minister explain to canadians how it is better to give $ 1 million in bonuses to the ceo of the canada infrastructure bank than to invest in roads , schools , hospitals and long-term care homes ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , i am very happy to explain to the member opposite that we are doing just that . perhaps he is n't aware of our $ 33 billion infrastructure program in which we are working directly with the government of quebec to build infrastructure that 's making a huge difference , including projects in the member 's riding . we are going to continue doing that . mr. luc berthold : mr.chair , she is not answering the question at all . on april3 , the previous president of the canada infrastructure bank left his position for reasons that remain unclear . how much did he receive in bonuses for his years at the helm of the canada infrastructure bank ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr.chair , the change of management at the canada infrastructure bank marks a new phase in the development of the bank . we are working to build a modern , public infrastructure , to create jobs , and to make canada more competitive internationally . mr. luc berthold : we are talking about the bonuses given to the president of the canada infrastructure bank . we have received no answer on that . what were the evaluation criteria that led to the decision that the former ceo had delivered a performance worthy of a bonus , when few , if any , projects were financed by the bank ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr.chair , i would like to thank the former ceo , pierre lavalle , for his contribution to the establishment of this new institution . i am very proud that michael sabia has joined the bank . we will continue to work to build canada and create good jobs . mr. luc berthold : how much did he receive in bonuses ? hon . catherine mckenna : the range of compensation for the ceo is set by the bank and is publicly available . mr. luc berthold : did the minister approve the bonuses paid to the former president of the canada infrastructure bank ? hon . catherine mckenna : as i have already said , the compensation range for the ceo is determined by the bank and is public knowledge because of the legislation the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr.berthold , the floor is yours . mr. luc berthold : thank you , mr.chair . if the new president stays in the position for five years , he could be entitled to a bonus totalling $ 4million , in addition to his salary of $ 3million . does the minister of infrastructure and communities consider that this is a good way to spend taxpayers ' money ? hon . catherine mckenna : we have to build our country , create good short-term jobs , ensure that we have a cleaner future , invest in renewable energy and green infrastructure in order to build bridges , public transportation the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr.berthold , the floor is yours . mr. luc berthold : mr . chair , if the new ceo stays in office for five years , he will be entitled to a total potential bonus of $ 4 million , in addition to his salary of $ 3 million . does the minister of infrastructure think this is a good way to spend taxpayers ' money , yes or no ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , i 'm very proud that we have michael sabia , who is now head of the canada infrastructure bank as the board chair . we need to move forward in building infrastructure that 's going to create jobs , including in the member 's riding ; that 's going to help move us to a cleaner future ; that 's going to grow our economy and increase canada 's competitiveness . the bank is a key part of the investing in canada plan the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will now move to mrs. gray , kelownalake country . mrs. tracy gray ( kelownalake country , cpc ) : mr . chair , the covid-19 pandemic has shown how important it is to be able to move our goods interprovincially . christian buhagiar of supply chain canada called for the government to revisit interprovincial trade regulations to ensure we can quickly move production and distribution from one region to another during times of emergency . will the government commit to immediately examine all our trade barriers that can affect interprovincial trade of essential goods due to covid-19 ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . chrystia freeland : i 'd like to thank the member opposite for her excellent point . our government is very committed to removing barriers to interprovincial trade . it 's something that we have been working on with the premiers . obviously the coronavirus has taken precedence in recent weeks , but it 's a priority . it 's the right thing to do . mrs. tracy gray : mr . chair , the federal government has a regulatory reconciliation table as part of the canada free trade agreement , focusing on breaking down interprovincial trade barriers . due to covid-19 , it has been announced that deadlines for all of these items may be delayed . what is the government doing to ensure there wo n't be delays on these items ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , it is absolutely right and appropriate for first ministers , who have been meeting every week for more than two months , to be focusing on the urgent threat posed by the coronavirus . however , i agree with the member opposite that we need to lift barriers to interprovincial trade . that 's something we 're committed to doing and to working on with the premiers . mrs. tracy gray : mr . chair , while many of these items were past due prior to the pandemic , two important items from the list that should be worked on now are meat inspection and food inspection . considering serious issues from these industries during the pandemic , would the minister commit to restarting the work on at least these two items ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . marie-claude bibeau : thank you , mr.chair . i can assure you , as far as the canadian food inspection agency is concerned , that we are very open to that issue . moreover , the authorities are front and centre in cases where there may be a food shortage in one region of the country or another . mrs. tracy gray : mr . chair , covid-19 is adding huge pressures to our national supply chain . those i speak with in the industry tell me they are beginning to see a backlog of goods . does the government have a comprehensive plan to ensure the movement and resiliency of our national supply chain ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , since we are discussing the food supply chain , let me remind you that we are committed to spending $ 50million , specifically to buy surplus food and redistribute it , through the food bank network , to regions where the need is greatest . mrs. tracy gray : mr . chair , reports state that activists ' rail blockades earlier this year cost the canadian economy $ 275 million , and it took three to five days to catch up for every day that our transportation network was down . the supply chain industry just caught up , and then the pandemic hit , creating new issues and backlogs . we are hearing from those in the industry who are concerned about future blockades affecting essential goods getting across the country . our railways are critical infrastructure . will the government commit to immediately dismantling any potential future blockades ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister may reply . hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , i could n't agree more with my colleague that it is important for our railways to be transporting all the goods that we produce in this country . i am in contact on a weekly basis with our major railways . certain products are moving very well at the moment , including grain , potash and coal , but other goods have n't moved as quickly , because they have been affected by the pandemic . we are very vigilant with respect to moving our goods as efficiently as possible , whether it 's by our railways , by trucks or by ships . mrs. tracy gray : mr . chair , at the standing committee for industry this week , david montpetit of the western canadian shippers ' coalition stated that they believe shippers are going to face a container shortage over the next six months . he also stated that we could be facing labour and capacity shortages in our trucking industry . this could backlog essential goods interprovincially , including food and medicine , if the capacity is n't there . what steps is the government taking to address this problem ? hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , of course it 's always important to have the capacity to move goods across this country . at the moment , our trains have the capacity to move goods across the country . with respect to trucking , we do have issues with respect to a lack of truckers for moving some of our goods across the country . this is a problem that has existed for some time , and we 're working on it . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now move on to mrs. wagantall of yorktonmelville . mrs. wagantall , go ahead . mrs. cathay wagantall ( yorktonmelville , cpc ) : thank you , chair . young and new farmers are struggling , as they do n't have enough equity built up to borrow money to survive these difficult times . price insurance is key , but the premiums are so expensive due to covid that they ca n't participate . has a price insurance program been implemented in atlantic canada ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : yes , mr.chair , we are encouraging the use of private programs , as well as the risk management programs . the initiative must come from the private sector . i can not answer my colleague 's question directly . mrs. cathay wagantall : has the minister worked with her provincial counterparts to secure a short-term cost-sharing agreement to reduce premiums where price insurance already exists ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , i can assure my colleague that i am working very regularly with all my provincial colleagues . in addition to our individual meetings , we have a regular telephone meeting each week . mrs. cathay wagantall : is cost-sharing of premiums already available for crop insurance ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , for insurance protection , our proposal to the provinces is to include the possibility of recognizing a labour shortage as an insurable risk . it is up to each of the provinces to sign on to that or not . mrs. cathay wagantall : without price insurance , how many ranchers have had to address cash flow by selling cattle at the bottom of the market ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , we have established a number of programs in order to help our beef producers . for example , we are providing $ 50million through the agrirecovery program and $ 77.5million for food processors . mrs. cathay wagantall : on may 1 , the young cattlemen 's council asked the minister to extend the deadline for attaining calf price insurance . today is that deadline . did the minister meet it ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , we discuss different options with representatives of various organizations almost every day . we are trying to work with them to improve the various programs and to meet their needs , in addition to the risk management programs , of course . mrs. cathay wagantall : she did n't respond to the request of the young cattlemen 's council . the minister is telling farmers to access the brm program , but just now i got a text from a young cattleman in my riding who 's losing $ 250 to $ 300 per head and just told me that those programs in no way increase their capacity to deal with this crisis . the farm credit canada lending capacity was increased by $ 5 billion , but only to service and manage loans of current customers . how many farmers have applied for that assistance ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : however , mr.chair , there is a whole range of programs for our producers , whether they be specific programs for the agriculture sector , or the canada emergency business account , the ceba , the criteria of which have been broadened . this allows us to provide more loans , also with a forgivable portion of 25 % , which could amount to $ 670million for the agricultural sector . mrs. cathay wagantall : what percentage of canada 's farmers are customers of farm credit canada ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , farm credit canada is well-established from one end of the country to the other and it is ready to meet the needs of our agricultural producers . in addition the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : back to ms. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : of the 25 % of farmers who use fcc and have applied , how many have received assistance ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , i stand to be corrected but , according to the most recent information i have received , $ 4billion in flexible loans to producers have been made available since the crisis began . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : you have 45 seconds left , ms. wagantall . mrs. cathay wagantall : is the minister concerned that cow-calf numbers will sharply decrease if producers are n't able to protect the value of their herds , which they can not do , jeopardizing the future of the canadian beef supply chain ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : mr.chair , i can assure you that i am extremely concerned about the future of the agri-food sector . that is why we are working extremely hard with the sector every day to improve existing programs and create new ones , especially in support of the meat industry . mrs. cathay wagantall : they made it clear that the brm programs do n't work and there 's not funding in place to assist them . three weeks ago , the processing backlog was more than 100,000 head . how many beef operations are facing the real danger of going out of business because of this pandemic and the lack of support by the agriculture minister and this liberal government ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : once again , mr.chair , we know that the risk-management programs are not perfect . that is why we are working with the provinces to find solutions . these are shared-cost programs with the provinces and we want to improve them . this is why we are trying to incorporate some flexibility . in addition , we are supplementing the funding , especially for the meat industry . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to ms. wilson-raybould in vancouver granville . hon . jody wilson-raybould ( vancouver granville , ind . ) : thank you , mr . chair . the minister of employment has stated that measures would be forthcoming for individuals with disabilities , similar to the one-time payment increase given to seniors on oas and gis . could the minister please provide some more details with respect to the statement she made ? when can individuals with disabilities expect meaningful financial assistance ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , we know that canadians with disabilities are disproportionately impacted by covid in terms of both their own personal health and the access to supports that they have , or do n't have , more specifically . we are three days away from national accessability week , the first week after we legislated it in the accessible canada act . i would expect something from our government during that week . hon . jody wilson-raybould : thank you for that . my office has heard from many constituents who are frustrated over the lack of information on eligibility requirements from the government regarding the business credit availability program . furthermore , banks are giving small and medium-sized businesses mixed messaging . how will the government ensure that the messaging for bcap and similar programs is articulated properly ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . mary ng : thank you , mr . chair . i want to thank the honourable member for her question . nothing is more important to us right now than making sure our small and medium-sized businesses are supported . the lending program through bcap is available through financial institutions ; that 's banks and credit unions across the country . the money is flowing to those businesses . i would encourage canadian businesses to get in touch with their financial institutions . thank you so much . hon . jody wilson-raybould : mr . chair , members may not be aware , but there are ongoing restrictions on when some civil servants can access government servers and their files due to the pandemic , to ensure that those dealing directly with the pandemic have priority . for example , this is affecting negotiations with indigenous peoples . can the government please tell us when the system will have sufficient capacity so that all civil servants can do their work remotely and without limitation ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . jean-yves duclos ( president of the treasury board ) : thank you , mr . chair . thank you to my colleague for her important question , which indeed speaks to the importance of public servants continuing their important jobs for canadians , being mindful , of course , of the difficult circumstances in which many of those workers find themselves , both personally and professionally . we know that , in particular , indigenous communities need that support , and particularly so in the context of the crisis . we look forward to continuing to support them . hon . jody wilson-raybould : as current and former parliamentarians call for a national inquiry into long-term care homes , something i would strongly support , can the minister of crown-indigenous relations please give the members an idea as to when the action plan on murdered and missing indigenous women and girls will be released ? in asking this question , i certainly understand the need for consultation and the reality of some delays due to the pandemic . there are of course many actions that we all know need to take place now that do not need more consultation . the need for consultation can not be an excuse for the lack of action . hon . carolyn bennett : i thank the member for her ongoing advocacy . as we approach the first anniversary of the release of the final report , we are grateful for the work of all of our partners as they really try to do what they can to end this national tragedy of missing and murdered indigenous women and girls and those who are two-spirited , plus . despite the challenges of covid-19 , they have put in good initiatives , and we look forward to releasing a national action plan that will include all provinces and territories as well as all of our indigenous governments and partners . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : ms. wilson-raybould , you 're down to about the last 30 seconds , so please ask a short question . hon . jody wilson-raybould : i have a short question for the minister of transport . does the government have any plans to step in and encourage airlines to return money to customers rather than vouchers ? i 've heard from many constituents and businesses in this regard . hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , as i mentioned before , we 're very sympathetic to the situation that those who would have preferred a refund are in at the moment . however , the airlines are going through an extremely difficult time , and if they had to reimburse at this time , some of them could fail . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we 'll now go to mr. blaikie . mr. daniel blaikie ( elmwoodtranscona , ndp ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . i want to begin by indicating that i 'll be splitting my time with the member for skeenabulkley valley . across the country , a lot of canadians are preparing to go back to work right now and some employers are doing a good job of ensuring that there is a safe workplace , with the right procedures and the right equipment . unfortunately , some employers are not . for canadians who are employed by them , that means making a really tough decision between going back to a workplace where they do n't feel safe and which may present a threat to their families or communities , and staying home and worrying about not being paid because they 're not at work or because they will lose access to the cerb . i am wondering what guidance the federal government has for people who feel that their workplace is not safe at this time and that their employer has n't done its due diligence , and are concerned about losing access to the cerb . hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , we are very concerned about the safety of our workplaces and we do n't want workers to feel unsafe as they go back to work . however , we do want people to go back to work . we are working very closely with the provinces . the minister of health is working on occupational health and safety guidelines . the minister of labour is working with her colleagues . we are taking an all-of-government approach to ensure that workers are safe , that they do n't have to put their lives or the health of their families in jeopardy and that we can support them in these efforts . mr. daniel blaikie : mr . chair , i think the issue here is that canadian workers really need some certainty about what the federal government would consider an adequate employment offer , or an offer to come back to work , so that they would n't be on the cerb . can canadians be confident that they can stay on the cerb whether they go back to work or not , whether their employer makes them an offer or not ? i think a lot of people have anxiety about this and it 's a difficult time . when is the government going to release some formal guidance on how people go about refusing unsafe work ? hon . carla qualtrough : mr . chair , we know that the provinces have their own workers ' compensation programs and refusal-to-work mechanisms , but the point for us , here in government , is to work with employers and with the provinces so that we make our workplaces safe . mr. daniel blaikie : but this is about cerb eligibility . i respect the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : order . mr. blaikie , we have run out of time since we are splitting the time between two speakers . we 're now going to mr. bachrach . mr. taylor bachrach ( skeenabulkley valley , ndp ) : thank you , mr . chair . canadians depend on municipalities across canada for vital services , especially during this pandemicservices like transit , drinking water , parks and sanitationyet the government has left municipalities in an unprecedented financial crisis . local government leaders across the country have called on the government for help , yet mostly what we 've heard are excuses . does the minister acknowledge that the federal government has a leadership role to play in getting financial help to municipalities at this difficult time ? hon . chrystia freeland : what we do acknowledge is the essential role municipalities play in our country at all times , and the particularly essential role they play today as our country gets ready to restart our economy . we are working closely with the municipalities to talk about ways we can support them and are working closely with the provinces , in whose jurisdiction the municipalities fall . mr. taylor bachrach : through you to the minister , we 've seen deep cuts and more cuts are on the way . we 've seen thousands of municipal workers laid off , and it 's been over a month since municipal leaders called on this government for emergency financial relief . my question is very simple . when can the municipalities expect the help they need from the federal government ? hon . chrystia freeland : let me just say again , mr . chair , that we are extremely alive to the importance of municipalities in our economy . we are very aware of the difficult financial situation they find themselves in , and we are very aware of how important it is to keep our municipalities functioning , particularly as we move into the restart . we 're working with municipalities and are urging them to work with their provinces , as we are doing too . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we have about 30 seconds left . go ahead , mr. bachrach , for 30 seconds . mr. taylor bachrach : i have a very simple question , through you to the minister . are there emergency federal dollars on the table for canada 's cities , yes , or no ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , the federal government very much understands and appreciates the importance of municipalities . we are prepared to support them . provinces need to do their share too . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : i now invite the honourable member for manicouagan to take the floor . mrs. marilne gill ( manicouagan , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . at a time when we are asking our fellow citizens and quebeckers to make sacrifices and even greater efforts , the liberal party , the government , is directly pilfering from a subsidy program that should be going to those who need it , not to rich political parties and their millionaire supporters . at a time when the work in the house is even more essentialwe should be working even harder , just as we are asking the people to dothe government , with the complicity of the ndp , decides to suspend the work of the house . this is the result of an absurd agreement that is absolutely impossible for it to implement . can the government confirm to the house , and simultaneously to the ndp , that the measure involving 10days of leave is absolutely not something it can do ? it is not in its jurisdiction , so it is a measure that it can not implement . hon . pablo rodriguez ( leader of the government in the house of commons ) : mr.chair , in order to be part of any agreement , you have to negotiate and be sitting at the table . the bloc qubcois says it wants to make gains for quebec , but in order to do that , it must be sitting at the table , not outside the room . it 's like a hockey game ; if you want to score goals , you have to be on the ice . the other day , i asked this question : how many of guy lafleur 's 560goals were scored when he was sitting on the bench ? mrs. marilne gill : let me shoot the puck back to the leader of the government in the house . he himself decided to close the rink , to shut down parliament . that is where the teams are , and that is where the goals are scored . but when you play a sport , when you are on a team , and when you are in parliament , you still have to play by the rules . but the government does not keep its word . it made a promise to us as well , just like it made one to the ndp . it was about the canada emergency student benefit . the deputy prime minister herself said that it was certainly a good idea . what did the government do ? it backed away . i play on a team and i play by the rules . i take it at its word because this is the right place . here , in this chamber . so i would like the government to tell people that this measure is absolutely not in their jurisdiction . that was my previous question . it was not about which parties were negotiating or not and when they kept their word or not . the ndp has to realize that their agreement is absolutely worthless . hon . pablo rodriguez : mr.chair , my colleague is alluding to previous current and future agreements . we have had discussions and we have reached a number of agreements with our friends in the bloc qubcois . it was going very well , but there was one agreement they did not like and they went off and sulked . when you are not happy , you do not go off and sulk ; you stay at the table and negotiate . that is how things work . mrs. marilne gill : i urge the honourable leader of the government to recall the house . i am ready to be here , on the ice , all the time . i must remind him that we are not sulking . the bloc qubcois has self-respect and respect for the public . an agreement is not a promise , it is an agreement . a word is given in dignity and sincerity ; a bond of trust is created . when a player decides not to play by the rules , i do not let myself be taken in twice . i prefer to negotiate here , as we should be doing all the time in parliament , not trying to play with someone who never keeps his word . i would just like the leader of the government in the house to tell us that the measure about the 10days is not up to him and so he will not be able to make it happen . i could also ask him whether he found out from the government of quebec whether it agreed with the measure . hon . pablo rodriguez : mr.chair , of course , it is not in my jurisdiction personally . we agree on that . it depends on a number of players , including the provinces and the private sector . we at federal level are holding discussions with the provinces and people in different areas . of course , we are holding discussions with everyone involved . i want to know what my colleague has against having six hours of questions instead of four . what does she have against the fact that , from now on , people will be able to ask questions about anything , not just about covid-19 ? what does she have against the fact that we are going to meet again this summer ? what is it that she does not like ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : ms.gill , you have about 30seconds left for your comment . go ahead . mrs. marilne gill : let me teach the leader of the government in the house some arithmetic . first , 37.5hours per week , as well as the time we spend sitting on our normal committees , is quite a bit more than the eight short hours each week he is giving us . second , once again , the leader said that it is absolutely not in his jurisdiction . so he reaches agreements with parties though his word is worth nothing . i hope that the ndp has not reached an agreement with him . hon . pablo rodriguez : mr.chair , it all depends on government decisions , and clearly , we are having discussions with the provinces . actually , we have already started doing that . however , i still do not understand what she has against having more time than i do to ask questions . i would really like an answer from her . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : we will now take a brief pause so that the technicians can spell each other off . order . i see mr. bezan on a point of order . mr. james bezan ( selkirkinterlakeeastman , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . earlier , during the question time here , mr. sweet , the member for flamborough-glanbrook , got up and was raising a number of issues about the hong kong protests , where 360 people have been arrested . the people 's republic of china , the regime in beijing , and their rubber-stamp parliament , the national people 's congress , are circumventing hong kong legislation and the hong kong government in putting their own will upon the people of hong kong . i believe this demands an emergency debate here in the house of commons . mr . chair , i 'm asking if you would rule on this and schedule an emergency debate so that parliament can actually discuss this crisis , this human rights crisis , as political protestors are being imprisoned because of their standing up against the communist regime in beijing . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : i thank the honourable member , mr. bezan , for his point of order . it was really more of a request . he may know , and for the benefit of other honourable members , that we 're operating in this special committee on the covid-19 pandemic under the auspices of an order made earlier this week . there is no provision in that order for emergency debates . however , i would certainly encourage him to speak with his house leader , whips and others . of course , he 'll know that discussions of this sort are being shared , so he might want to pursue that opportunity . i see mr. bezan rising . mr. bezan , is it a different point of order ? mr. james bezan : no . i 'd just like to respond to that if i could . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : well , there 's mr. james bezan : mr . chair , this is the problem with this special committee . our rights and privileges as members have been completely degraded . it makes it impossible for us to address the issues of this day . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr. bezan , we 're all operating under an order that was agreed to by the house . we 'll stick to those provisions . again , understand the situation we 're in . certainly circumstances do change , but i leave that to the party leaders to decide . for our last round of questions , we 're going to charleswoodst . jamesassiniboiaheadingley , mr. morantz . mr. marty morantz ( charleswoodst . jamesassiniboiaheadingley , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . my questions are for the minister of national revenue . minister , i 've been informed by some of my colleagues that cra officials have been directing constituents to phone their member of parliament to resolve cra-related issues . why on earth would cra direct individuals away from the agency during this stressful time when they 're just trying to get their tax information and file their taxes ? hon . diane lebouthillier : mr.chair , i thank my colleague for that important question . i can tell you that cra employees have to deal with questions put to them . it is not up to mps ' offices to deal with specific questions about individual files . mr. marty morantz : minister , you did n't answer the question . these are your cra officials directing constituents away from the cra . you really should be answering that question and not just talking about how inappropriate it is , although i appreciate that . also , on your website , it says that the telephone service for the individual-inquiries line will be available to canadians until june 5 , and there is no further information about further live service . when will you get your agency under control and make sure it provides an actual person on the other end of the line to provide the information that taxpayers need ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : just before we go to the minister , i would remind hon . members to address their questions through the chair . it 's a little bit different from when we 're questioning witnesses in a committee . we 're using the rules more related to what we use in committee of the whole . the honourable minister has the floor . mr. marty morantz : on a point of order , mr . chair , as far as i 'm aware , this is not parliament ; this is a committee . i 've been sitting on committees since october . i 've talked to my colleagues , and no chair , including the chair of the finance committee , has ever asked me to address a question through the chair . so with the greatest of respect , unless this is in fact parliament , which i 'm told it 's not and the parliament voted that it 's not , we really should be able to address the witnesses directly , should we not ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : thank you , mr. morantz . this really is a question around the way in which this special committee on covid-19 has been structured . we 're operating under the rules that were agreed to by the house in an order that was passed and adopted on tuesday of this week , so we 're bound to manage the affairs of this committee in that way , and one of those includes asking members to address their comments and questions through the chair to other hon . members . so i ask you to abide by the rules of the committee , and we 'll pursue that . now we 'll go to the response to your second question . the honourable minister has the floor . hon . diane lebouthillier : mr.chair , i must thank the officials who have done excellent work during this historic covid-19 period . i must tell you that cra call centres are an essential service and the agency is able to answer calls quickly . the employees are answering calls from their homes . mr. marty morantz : some of my colleagues have spoken to the cra about drop-off boxes for paper returns actually being removed at some locations , citing covid-19 as a reason . has the cra removed these boxes at all locations ? given this , will you commit today to make paper filing postage-free , since paper filers can no longer drop off their returns at all of the locations ? hon . diane lebouthillier : mr.chair , i thank my colleague for that important question . at the cra , we continue to process paper returns and to do the work that we usually do . i repeat , i must highlight the exceptional work that the agency employees are doing . mr. marty morantz : on the subject of paper returns , there have been numerous reportsin fact i asked you on may 10 for a written response at the government operations committee , oggo , which i have not yet receivedon the delays in processing paper returns . apparently this is still ongoing . when will canadians who filed paper forms have their returns processed so they can get the refunds they need during this difficult time ? hon . diane lebouthillier : mr.chair , i can confirm that the canada revenue agency continues to process paper returns . because of covid-19 , we have had to implement distancing measures to protect the employees . we must ensure that employees are safe , but we continue to process paper returns . the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : mr. morantz , you have about 45 seconds left . go ahead with your question . mr. marty morantz : sure , mr . chair . during this crisis , the problem of illegal tax evasion and avoidance has been highlighted . the minister has been the minister since 2015 and should be able to answer this question off the top of her head . how many successful prosecutions have there been in canada for the illegal use of tax havens ? hon . diane lebouthillier : mr.chair , as we have said , one of our government 's priorities was to invest almost $ 1billion to establish a system intended to fight tax evasion . that was not at all a priority under the conservatives . we continue to do that important work for taxpayers ; everyone must pay their fair share . </s>
<s> what was stated in petition e-2509 ? </s>  </s>
<s> what was the difficulty faced by the tourism industry ? </s>  </s>
<s> why were the thanks expressed to the house of commons today from whitehorse ? </s>  </s>
<s> what were the reasons to thank the members of the canadian armed forces ? </s>  </s>
<s> would there be more room for profit in the care of the seniors ? </s> mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : thank you , mr.chair . the canadian armed forces report showed the relationship between equipment costs and the lack of care for our seniors . will the government admit today that there is no room for profit in the care of our seniors ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr.chair , that 's a very important question , and i would like to thank the member for asking it . i think this is a historic week . all canadians have seen what is happening in ontario and quebec . we the chair : order . we 'll go back to mr.singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , experts and advocates have all pointed out that in the for-profit model of care for seniors , there is more emphasis on the bottom line than on care for seniors . will the liberal government admit that there is no place for profit when it comes to the care of our seniors ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i want to start by saying one thing , and that is to publicly thank , in this house , brigadier-general conrad mialkowski and his team for compiling the assessment that they did of long-term care homes in ontario . they acted with courage . they acted with compassion . what they did is historic , and we all need to the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : the canadian forces , of course , always deserve our thanks . however , they do n't need our thanks right now ; they need to see some action on what they have pointed out . the government owns revera , the second-largest long-term care provider in canada . it 's for profit , and it 's facing a $ 50-million lawsuit for negligence . what is the government doing to protect seniors in the long-term care homes that they own ? hon . chrystia freeland : mr . chair , i agree with the member opposite that after what we have learned this week , all options must be on the table when it comes to how care for our elders will be provided in canada in the future . i think it is clear to us all that root-and-branch reform is necessary . we need to act with speed but not haste , and work with our provincial partners . mr. jagmeet singh : if all the options are on the table , will the liberal government commit to removing profit from long-term care , particularly in the revera long-term care homes , the second-largest number in canada , which the government owns ? will it commit to removing profit from long-term care ? </s>
<s> where was the $ 75 million towards sexual exploitation and human trafficking had gone ? </s> mrs. karen vecchio ( elginmiddlesexlondon , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . today i join critics from the ndp , the bloc and the green party who deal with women 's issues and gender equality to ask where the $ 75 million toward sexual exploitation and human trafficking has gone . last week organizations had to close their doors and the programs that help vulnerable women and girls , so the simple question is this : where is the money ? </s>
<s> would the prime minister condemn this law concerning the national security bill undermining hong kong 's autonomy ? </s> mr. david sweet : yesterday the rubber-stamp national people 's congress passed the national security bill undermining hong kong 's autonomy and strengthening a grip of the communist party of china . will the prime minister condemn this law ? hon . mary ng : canada , with our international partners in the u.s. , australia and the u.k. , made a joint statement in which we are expressing our deep concern regarding china 's imposition of a new security law for hong kong . mr. david sweet : canada has an admirable history of doing the right thing and helping when the situation is bleak . the suez canal , cyprus , the fall of apartheid , child and maternal health in africa , and afghanistan are examples in my lifetime of how canada has weighed in significantly . why is the government letting down hong kong ? </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the measures taken for the canada summer jobs program ? </s> hon . steven blaney ( bellechasseles etcheminslvis , cpc ) : thank you , mr.chair . some hon . members : ha , ha ! hon . steven blaney : i am pleased to represent the city of lvis , because it is a privilege , mr.chair . it is the city where alphonse desjardins , who spearheaded the largest financial cooperative movement , was born . i hope you will not take that away from my time . my question is for the minister of employment , workforce development and disability inclusion . on april8 , the minister announced measures for the canada summer jobs program . we thought it was to improve the program , but can the minister confirm that the budget remained the same between april7 and9 ? </s>
<s> would the government enhance the canada summer jobs program ? </s> hon . steven blaney : the canada emergency student benefit does not encourage young people to go to work , and employers have difficulty hiring them . yet they had applied for the canada summer jobs program . why not enhance the canada summer jobs program ? </s>
<s> how did the infrastructure minister explain to give $ 1 million in bonuses to the ceo of the canada infrastructure bank rather than to invest in roads , schools , hospitals and long-term care homes ? </s> mr. luc berthold : mr . chair , could the infrastructure minister explain to canadians how it is better to give $ 1 million in bonuses to the ceo of the canada infrastructure bank than to invest in roads , schools , hospitals and long-term care homes ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr . chair , i am very happy to explain to the member opposite that we are doing just that . perhaps he is n't aware of our $ 33 billion infrastructure program in which we are working directly with the government of quebec to build infrastructure that 's making a huge difference , including projects in the member 's riding . we are going to continue doing that . mr. luc berthold : mr.chair , she is not answering the question at all . on april3 , the previous president of the canada infrastructure bank left his position for reasons that remain unclear . how much did he receive in bonuses for his years at the helm of the canada infrastructure bank ? </s>
<s> would the government commit to immediately examine all the trade barriers that could affect interprovincial trade of essential goods due to covid-19 ? </s> mrs. tracy gray ( kelownalake country , cpc ) : mr . chair , the covid-19 pandemic has shown how important it is to be able to move our goods interprovincially . christian buhagiar of supply chain canada called for the government to revisit interprovincial trade regulations to ensure we can quickly move production and distribution from one region to another during times of emergency . will the government commit to immediately examine all our trade barriers that can affect interprovincial trade of essential goods due to covid-19 ? the acting chair ( mr. bruce stanton ) : the honourable minister . hon . chrystia freeland : i 'd like to thank the member opposite for her excellent point . our government is very committed to removing barriers to interprovincial trade . it 's something that we have been working on with the premiers . obviously the coronavirus has taken precedence in recent weeks , but it 's a priority . it 's the right thing to do . mrs. tracy gray : mr . chair , the federal government has a regulatory reconciliation table as part of the canada free trade agreement , focusing on breaking down interprovincial trade barriers . due to covid-19 , it has been announced that deadlines for all of these items may be delayed . what is the government doing to ensure there wo n't be delays on these items ? </s>
<s> what guidance would the federal government have for the employment with concerns ? </s> mr. daniel blaikie ( elmwoodtranscona , ndp ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . i want to begin by indicating that i 'll be splitting my time with the member for skeenabulkley valley . across the country , a lot of canadians are preparing to go back to work right now and some employers are doing a good job of ensuring that there is a safe workplace , with the right procedures and the right equipment . unfortunately , some employers are not . for canadians who are employed by them , that means making a really tough decision between going back to a workplace where they do n't feel safe and which may present a threat to their families or communities , and staying home and worrying about not being paid because they 're not at work or because they will lose access to the cerb . i am wondering what guidance the federal government has for people who feel that their workplace is not safe at this time and that their employer has n't done its due diligence , and are concerned about losing access to the cerb . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : oops that 's as far as it goes . project manager : hi guys uh good morning everybody here . and uh i want to introduce myself , uh my name is uh shrida daseri and uh i 'm a project manager for this new project which we are going to discuss now . so i want to introduce first of all uh the names and the colleagues here . and what you 're uh drawing ? user interface : uh sure my name is agnes and i 'm an user usability user interface designer . marketing : my name is ed and i do accounting . project manager : uh how you spell your name uh ? marketing : e_d_ . project manager : e_d_ okay . industrial designer : do you also do marketing ? marketing : no . project manager : so only accounting ? okay . marketing : accounting , yes . industrial designer : and i 'm christine , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and my role in this uh scenario is to be the industrial designer . project manager : industrial designer . industrial designer : but i 'm not really one . project manager : so who is uh marketing , nobody in the market marketing : marketing is uh , is me . project manager : it 's you , okay . so thanks for coming for the meeting first of all , and uh we have a long time , just twenty-five minutes to discuss about uh this project and the the project initiation . first of all i want to ask uh mister ed about your uh marketing plan and your product plan and uh marketing : well i think that we 'll see that throughout the day in how we 're going to put this together as a marketing to to market the product . we 'll have to see on a through discussion on where we 're gon na go from here and from with this . project manager : mm-hmm but uh do you already have like a functional design or a technical design or marketing : uh for the moment not yet . project manager : oh for the moment not yet , okay , but uh what 's what 's your uh do you have some project plan , something with you or marketing : good question . no , this is like i said that we have to be discussed between all of us and we 'll go from there . we 'll have to simply we 'll have to work on it together . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , so uh by when you think you can uh give me some kind of uh project plan , okay , a discussion with uh marketing : certainly by the next meeting . project manager : by next meeting , okay that will be great . uh okay , so there 's any questions or uh first of all about uh this project ? industrial designer : what is the goal of the project ? project manager : uh the goal of the project i think maybe i 'll uh hand out to the ed , okay , so to explain uh what is the project because he 's in the sales and the accounting . marketing : industrial designer : marketing : i 'm in the sales i 'm supposed to explain them what to do . we have to define exactly what our product is , from uh project manager : yes , so can you explain uh what exactly the product is ? marketing : from what i had in mind we 're supposed to be marketing coffee , is that right ? project manager : oh i think uh , if i 'm not wrong , we 're making the remote control . user interface : um i was wondering marketing : remote controls , 'cause i had two different things . i had a first part of mine was to make a remote control for a new f remote control for television , and afterward i had a discussion about coffee so project manager : yes . marketing : we 'll start with the remote control for television then . so we 're have to design something that is very user friendly . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : something uh visual that has something that will will draw people to buy the product , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : because i think everybody 's experienced with uh remote controls , and some remote controls are are worth uh throwing out the window . uh th most of them ar i do n't know we 're have to come up with a new idea on how to make it a lot easier to use , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause a lot of times uh spend uh half a day through the instruction book trying to figure out how to use it . project manager : mm-hmm . and uh what abo uh christine , what about your uh the industrial design plan ? are you have a design already on this product or uh you 're still working on the design ? industrial designer : um no , i i have not begun working on the design , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and um i uh i actually did n't know we were designing a remote control , i thought we were designing a new monitor . um the website i went to look at had some announcements about an introduction of a um uh some sort of a seven inch um monitor , and um i understood that that was the project goal . so um i 'm glad i did n't d do any work um ahead of time because uh i clearly did n't understand the project goal . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um i just did s see that we were starting a new project together and there was going to be a four member team composed of these people , and um that 's about uh that 's project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and i i read through the different steps , and what my responsibilities were relative to the steps . project manager : so uh you 'll be leading the team for your design team or how many members is working in the team , for the design ? industrial designer : uh for the industrial design ? um well , i would th think that depends on how much money you give us . project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : that 's industrial designer : um because uh , you know , you can uh you can make it uh you have different choices with different financial models . project manager : yeah , but uh before we talk about uh the finance , okay , uh do you have some idea how we can uh sell this product or project in the market and how much is going to benefit to the company and uh of course it 's to the individual also . industrial designer : well , you know um , i kind of think that in general you have to do uh um y you have to have something that 's very fashionable , that 's uh very attractive that um people see and recognize uh its goal , and uh they immediately wan na have it uh have one of their own . so it would really would need to um something like the ipod would be good , seems to have caught on fairly well , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so um d uh you know , i do n't care what it does , just so it looks cool . project manager : okay , but uh uh when you think you can give me like a kind of design on the functional design or the technical design ? industrial designer : well , uh i 've got a lot of other projects i 'm doing right now um and so i 'll have to wait and see how those uh how those go . if they uh go quickly then uh it could be a month . if um if i run into any problems in my other projects it might be six months . project manager : yeah , but uh i need something in the writing , so like uh what 's your functional design , what 's your technical design , and uh how many people you need for this project , and what 's the time frame you 're looking , okay , and what is the budget , maybe uh initial budget you 're looking , okay , and uh how is going to the market , okay , industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : so you 've you 've had to meet with the marketing team and how they 're going to market and what are the marketing strategic plan , okay , when are you going to introduce , okay , and by the time you introduce the product and uh you know there there would be a competition , okay , so i need some kind of uh uh the plan in the writing from you . okay , and it 's po industrial designer : and when would you like that ? project manager : b as soon as possible . industrial designer : uh well if uh if we have enough time uh then d do you think um two weeks is a is close enough ? project manager : yes i think uh that would be good , because i need to go to the management and uh tell them what we are going to do , and uh what cost is , okay , and what 's the time frame and what 's the project plan , because uh without any uh documentations , i can not go to the management and say , so we are going to do this and we need this much money , okay , so then it 's it 's difficult for me to say , okay , that 's the reason i need uh some kind of plan from you , initially , okay , then we can have the further discussion again . industrial designer : uh are there other people who will be contributing to the plan ? project manager : yes , of course , if you need some help , uh so let me know . so , who are the people you need uh from the marketing or uh the technical side or uh the administration point of view , okay , to add in any documentation , or some technical point of view , industrial designer : project manager : so just let me know so i can uh coordinate all the teams . industrial designer : okay , i 'll get back to you on that . project manager : yes . thank you . okay . and uh ed uh so what 's what do you think about uh this uh project for the remote control and d do you have some already planned something for your marketing strategy or uh the sales strategy ? marketing : well not yet other than uh doing research and taking remote controls and looking what other companies have to do uh , what they 're building , their designs , their ideas , project manager : hmm . marketing : uh also have to pinpoint which market we 're gon na go into . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it should be a fairly large market because uh the number of people that uh the competition , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh th i agree it has to be something it has to be something new , it has to be something that that draws people saying eh , i like this . whether it works or not , they have to first say i like this , i like the design , and then it 's got ta be simple to use . project manager : yes , so what i uh prefer maybe uh you need to interact uh more with the christine , okay , because you know what she is going to do it , okay , and you know how to sell it . okay , because uh she is doing the design , but you are the core because you are in the marketing , okay , marketing : yeah . project manager : so because you need to sell and you 're the responsible for the all the money , the finance , okay , tomorrow . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so , what i prefer , okay , so you need to interact with the christine more and uh within her team , okay , who is using the functional design or technical design , okay , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and uh you need to come up with some kind of plan , okay , how we are going to do the your sales plan , okay , th marketing : do we already have a cost limit on this , th an idea of how much uh we want to market this for , how much it 's gon na sell for , project manager : th that that 's marketing : that 's up that 's up to us to decide , eh ? project manager : yes , that 's you have to decide , okay , so the best thing is you uh both of uh the christine and you discuss with yourself , okay , and come up with the cost , and how we are going to compete in the market , okay , in the the technically , or in the sales wise , okay , the commercial wise , okay . then uh we have to design , okay , how long it will take the whole project , okay , how much is going to cost us , and how much we are going to benefit for the company . okay , of course it 's it 's uh of benefit for everybody individually . okay , so i think it 's uh maybe if we can uh give me some kind of your uh the sales plan , okay , including the technical what uh she 's going to talk to you within the team , okay , then it will help me to discuss with the management for further , okay , and put it in the the proper project plan . okay , and if you need uh any coordination in between uh compared to the maybe the some technical vendors or commercial vendors , okay , depends if you want to have some uh uh marketing plan or technical plan , okay , so you let me know . marketing : very good . project manager : okay , i can coordinate , marketing : very good . project manager : or maybe uh , you are my coordinator , am i right ? between uh all the coor user interface : well , no , not exactly . i mean my job from what i understood was to look at the usability requirements and make sure that the product is usable , it 's acceptable to the people who are gon na use it and look at the best ways to do that . project manager : yeah . user interface : so i think i 'll have to interact with christine and discuss with her , so that she 's not designing something that my studies will show right off the bat that it 's not going to work , project manager : th christine , yeah . which is user interface : and so it 's sort of it 's a loop that feeds in , but i do n't think necessarily that i 'm in a coordinating position for it . project manager : yes . yeah , so basically you need to interact with christine more , okay , for the user acceptability , okay , and the testing , okay , user interface : yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : then you will user interface : which will also feed into the marketing , because depending on what users want , depends on how you sell it , what tag lines you attach to it , how you try to make it more attractive to users . project manager : yes . yeah . yeah . yeah . user interface : so i think all three groups will need to interact quite a bit . um , and then i guess build the plan based on all of that , because i think you need to take all the factors into account . project manager : yep . but what i request , okay , keep ed in the loop , okay , in between your uh meeting and christine meeting , because uh he should know what 's happening . user interface : yeah , of course . yeah , we can c_c_ him on any discussions or documents that are passed around . project manager : yes . okay and please please copy all the mails , okay , all the discussions to me , okay , so i need to submit to the management . user interface : sure . no problem . project manager : so any questions for uh time being ? industrial designer : user interface : so , the immediate next step is to start determining the functional design , or okay . project manager : okay . to come up with the functional design and uh to discuss with ed , okay , and how it 's going to be work , and uh first of all with your user acceptance , okay , how it looks like and how it 's going to be work in the market , okay , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so then we can discuss about uh further things . so , we 'll meet when the we 'll discuss on the further meeting . user interface : okay . project manager : it 's okay ? thanks for coming . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : would you mind um at the conclusion of our meeting could could you send us a copy of your slides ? project manager : yes , i will . yes . user interface : mm-hmm , yeah , that would be useful . project manager : i 'll copy , uh le let us keep all the emails and all the copies , okay , share each other , okay , so you know everybody what 's happening , okay ? user interface : sure . project manager : and if anything you need anytime so please either you can call me , or just send me email , or uh just come and uh knock my door , okay , so i 'm available here . it 's good ? okay , thanks for coming and uh i wish you a nice time then . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . user interface : thanks . project manager : okay , see you later . bye . </s>
<s> what did the industrial designer propose about the marketing plan of the product ? </s> industrial designer : um well , i would th think that depends on how much money you give us . project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : that 's industrial designer : um because uh , you know , you can uh you can make it uh you have different choices with different financial models . project manager : yeah , but uh before we talk about uh the finance , okay , uh do you have some idea how we can uh sell this product or project in the market and how much is going to benefit to the company and uh of course it 's to the individual also . industrial designer : well , you know um , i kind of think that in general you have to do uh um y you have to have something that 's very fashionable , that 's uh very attractive that um people see and recognize uh its goal , and uh they immediately wan na have it uh have one of their own . so it would really would need to um something like the ipod would be good , seems to have caught on fairly well , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so um d uh you know , i do n't care what it does , just so it looks cool . project manager : okay , but uh uh when you think you can give me like a kind of design on the functional design or the technical design ? </s>
<s> what did the marketing recommend to do when discussing marketing strategy and why ? </s> project manager : so just let me know so i can uh coordinate all the teams . industrial designer : okay , i 'll get back to you on that . project manager : yes . thank you . okay . and uh ed uh so what 's what do you think about uh this uh project for the remote control and d do you have some already planned something for your marketing strategy or uh the sales strategy ? marketing : well not yet other than uh doing research and taking remote controls and looking what other companies have to do uh , what they 're building , their designs , their ideas , project manager : hmm . marketing : uh also have to pinpoint which market we 're gon na go into . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it should be a fairly large market because uh the number of people that uh the competition , project manager : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did the marketing suggest about remote control style in terms of marketing strategy ? </s> project manager : yes , so can you explain uh what exactly the product is ? marketing : from what i had in mind we 're supposed to be marketing coffee , is that right ? project manager : oh i think uh , if i 'm not wrong , we 're making the remote control . user interface : um i was wondering marketing : remote controls , 'cause i had two different things . i had a first part of mine was to make a remote control for a new f remote control for television , and afterward i had a discussion about coffee so project manager : yes . marketing : we 'll start with the remote control for television then . so we 're have to design something that is very user friendly . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : something uh visual that has something that will will draw people to buy the product , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : because i think everybody 's experienced with uh remote controls , and some remote controls are are worth uh throwing out the window . uh th most of them ar i do n't know we 're have to come up with a new idea on how to make it a lot easier to use , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause a lot of times uh spend uh half a day through the instruction book trying to figure out how to use it . </s>
<s> what did the project manager propose in the discussion of project initiation ? </s> project manager : okay , but uh uh when you think you can give me like a kind of design on the functional design or the technical design ? industrial designer : well , uh i 've got a lot of other projects i 'm doing right now um and so i 'll have to wait and see how those uh how those go . if they uh go quickly then uh it could be a month . if um if i run into any problems in my other projects it might be six months . project manager : yeah , but uh i need something in the writing , so like uh what 's your functional design , what 's your technical design , and uh how many people you need for this project , and what 's the time frame you 're looking , okay , and what is the budget , maybe uh initial budget you 're looking , okay , and uh how is going to the market , okay , industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : so you 've you 've had to meet with the marketing team and how they 're going to market and what are the marketing strategic plan , okay , when are you going to introduce , okay , and by the time you introduce the product and uh you know there there would be a competition , okay , so i need some kind of uh uh the plan in the writing from you . okay , and it 's po industrial designer : and when would you like that ? project manager : b as soon as possible . industrial designer : uh well if uh if we have enough time uh then d do you think um two weeks is a is close enough ? project manager : yes i think uh that would be good , because i need to go to the management and uh tell them what we are going to do , and uh what cost is , okay , and what 's the time frame and what 's the project plan , because uh without any uh documentations , i can not go to the management and say , so we are going to do this and we need this much money , okay , so then it 's it 's difficult for me to say , okay , that 's the reason i need uh some kind of plan from you , initially , okay , then we can have the further discussion again . yes , so what i uh prefer maybe uh you need to interact uh more with the christine , okay , because you know what she is going to do it , okay , and you know how to sell it . okay , because uh she is doing the design , but you are the core because you are in the marketing , okay , marketing : yeah . project manager : so because you need to sell and you 're the responsible for the all the money , the finance , okay , tomorrow . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so , what i prefer , okay , so you need to interact with the christine more and uh within her team , okay , who is using the functional design or technical design , okay , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and uh you need to come up with some kind of plan , okay , how we are going to do the your sales plan , okay , th marketing : do we already have a cost limit on this , th an idea of how much uh we want to market this for , how much it 's gon na sell for , project manager : th that that 's marketing : that 's up that 's up to us to decide , eh ? </s>
<s> for what reason did the project manager insist that the discussion of project initiation should be kept in writing form ? </s> project manager : yeah , but uh i need something in the writing , so like uh what 's your functional design , what 's your technical design , and uh how many people you need for this project , and what 's the time frame you 're looking , okay , and what is the budget , maybe uh initial budget you 're looking , okay , and uh how is going to the market , okay , industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : so you 've you 've had to meet with the marketing team and how they 're going to market and what are the marketing strategic plan , okay , when are you going to introduce , okay , and by the time you introduce the product and uh you know there there would be a competition , okay , so i need some kind of uh uh the plan in the writing from you . okay , and it 's po industrial designer : and when would you like that ? project manager : b as soon as possible . industrial designer : uh well if uh if we have enough time uh then d do you think um two weeks is a is close enough ? project manager : yes i think uh that would be good , because i need to go to the management and uh tell them what we are going to do , and uh what cost is , okay , and what 's the time frame and what 's the project plan , because uh without any uh documentations , i can not go to the management and say , so we are going to do this and we need this much money , okay , so then it 's it 's difficult for me to say , okay , that 's the reason i need uh some kind of plan from you , initially , okay , then we can have the further discussion again . yes . okay and please please copy all the mails , okay , all the discussions to me , okay , so i need to submit to the management . user interface : sure . no problem . project manager : so any questions for uh time being ? industrial designer : user interface : so , the immediate next step is to start determining the functional design , or okay . project manager : okay . to come up with the functional design and uh to discuss with ed , okay , and how it 's going to be work , and uh first of all with your user acceptance , okay , how it looks like and how it 's going to be work in the market , okay , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so then we can discuss about uh further things . so , we 'll meet when the we 'll discuss on the further meeting . user interface : okay . project manager : it 's okay ? thanks for coming . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : would you mind um at the conclusion of our meeting could could you send us a copy of your slides ? project manager : yes , i will . yes . user interface : mm-hmm , yeah , that would be useful . project manager : i 'll copy , uh le let us keep all the emails and all the copies , okay , share each other , okay , so you know everybody what 's happening , okay ? user interface : sure . project manager : and if anything you need anytime so please either you can call me , or just send me email , or uh just come and uh knock my door , okay , so i 'm available here . it 's good ? okay , thanks for coming and uh i wish you a nice time then . user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . user interface : thanks . project manager : okay , see you later . bye . </s>
<s> what did the project manager suggest about team coordination during the process of project initiation ? </s> project manager : yes , so what i uh prefer maybe uh you need to interact uh more with the christine , okay , because you know what she is going to do it , okay , and you know how to sell it . okay , because uh she is doing the design , but you are the core because you are in the marketing , okay , marketing : yeah . project manager : so because you need to sell and you 're the responsible for the all the money , the finance , okay , tomorrow . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so , what i prefer , okay , so you need to interact with the christine more and uh within her team , okay , who is using the functional design or technical design , okay , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so i think all three groups will need to interact quite a bit . um , and then i guess build the plan based on all of that , because i think you need to take all the factors into account . project manager : yep . but what i request , okay , keep ed in the loop , okay , in between your uh meeting and christine meeting , because uh he should know what 's happening . user interface : yeah , of course . yeah , we can c_c_ him on any discussions or documents that are passed around . project manager : yes . okay and please please copy all the mails , okay , all the discussions to me , okay , so i need to submit to the management . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay , is everybody ready ? industrial designer : yeah ? marketing : yeah i 'd to just put on my microphone here and i 'll be right with you . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : okay ? project manager : um i take it you all have received instructions as to what you were supposed to do and um i think the marketing manager probably should go first , addressing the needs and desires . marketing : okay you want me to start right now ? project manager : yeah , mm-hmm . marketing : okay . project manager : marketing : well , could you um put my slides up 'cause i think it might be helpful if uh we looked at the slides at the same time . project manager : okay . you 're participant four . marketing : i 'm participant four i believe . yes uh-huh . project manager : okay , and now i can uh full screen . marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : open . project manager : uh , okay , okay . marketing : there we go . okay well i think we have introduced ourselves , industrial designer : and then full screen . marketing : so the functional requirements are is is part of my goal but why do n't we pass right to the second slide . cause that 's where m my discussion starts . right well um since i 'm in charge of trying to figure out what we should put on this thing since i have to try to sell it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um i thought that the method i should follow would be gather suggestions from everybody , and th the reason i just put that there like that is that uh in the init in the initial stage i think i should just be open to lots of suggestions . you know you can say anything you want no matter how silly it sounds you know it should run your car , it should heat up your motor if should um turn on your c_d_ whatever you want it to do industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : um and then as we go on what we 'll have to do is accept and eliminate these suggestions according to um design and budget feasibility . so i 'll be coming to you um frequently as the industrial expert to tell me how hard it 's gon na be to add a feature or how expensive it 's gon na be or if your time , if it takes five years to develop this it 's just something we ca n't do . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . yeah . yeah . hmm hmm . mm . marketing : so in the beginning just have a big puddle of things that we anybody can th throw anything in industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then just weed things out that ca n't be done for one reason or another , and then the things that seem the most attractive that to uh to a customer we 'll try to then prioritise those . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : so that was um what i meant there , and as i said on the slide there consulting the industrial engineer about that and the other thing is timing is really gon na be as important as money , because if we 're gon na sell this thing , i think the best time to sell it is as a christmas present . twenty five euros makes a nice little present , and we want it to be an impulse purchase , we want somebody to see it and think it 's , gee i just got ta have that . and take out their wallet and buy it . so it 's got ta be really attractive and it but it 's got ta go to market by september , 'cause anything that you do n't already have out there in september showing it around , is n't gon na sell for christmas . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um and then i 'll be coming to you as the user interface person to try to tell me from your point of view what are the most friendly features that we could put on it and try to prior help me with that prioritising of uh of the features and of the the look and the colour user interface : okay . marketing : and i 'll be coming back to you to help weed out those suggestions from that point of view . user interface : okay . marketing : so i 'll be coming to you for how much is it gon na cost us and how long is it gon na take you , industrial designer : mm mm-hmm . marketing : and i 'll be coming to you to tell me what 's gon na make somebody take out their wallet you know , user interface : what features . marketing : what what 's what 's gon na really be what they call a sizzle , user interface : s sellable . yes . marketing : 'cause we got ta sell this sizzle . industrial designer : marketing : a lot of times the thing that works the best from an engineering point of view is n't the thing that somebody 's really just gon na take out their wallet and buy for christmas for for their child or for their husband or whatever . okay can we go to the next slide please ? alright i i already did a little bit of research after our first meeting where we threw out some ideas and it looks to me that within the budget that we 're looking at the uh the whole house idea really is n't gon na be possible . so i 'd like your suggestions to come back to the other slide where i was saying we we could suggest anything . project manager : marketing : i 'd like the suggestions to be really specific , so that we 'll have a list of things we can cross off , not something like you know whole house control what 'll be and then i found on the internet from from my research that some extended electronic entertainment control should be possible . at the budget that we 're looking at and at the price point we 're looking at , we should be able to make it work the tv , the v_c_r_ , the stereo set um maybe something else cute like a coffee pot or one other appliance or maybe a lamp . project manager : uh okay , can can i at this point interject um something ? marketing : i have to wind up ? yeah , sure . project manager : um we have received instruction from higher up that certain things should not be uh considered . um the one thing for example something to eliminate maybe that 's the teletext , marketing : okay . project manager : because that 's sort of outdated with the internet , industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . project manager : and according to to higher management the it should only control the tv , marketing : project manager : mostly because they feel that it 's too comp complex a task to um to to include other things , industrial designer : complicated , yeah , of course . project manager : and they are concerned with the time to market . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : of course , yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : um and the marketing : okay , so that 's something project manager : and the third thing that they wan na make sure um that their that the corporate image is being maintained , and that the corporate colour and design are being used on the product , so that it 's easy that that that they can be easily identified as a product of of of the company , and that there 's no mistake that it could be somebody else who is bringing this out . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so i just wanted to interject this here so we 're not getting too much off track here with uh with the things we wan na look at . these were instructions from higher up so we have to eliminate uh these things , so it 's only gon na be tv , marketing : okay so project manager : but the one thing maybe that could be um eliminated is the teletext uh idea . marketing : okay . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : okay . marketing : alright , thanks for that . um alright now other things that i found out on in my research is that the complaints that people have about the remote controls that are out there now . 'cause a lot of them take too much time to learn how to use , and that was thirty four percent but even more important the thing that we did address in our last meeting that frequently it 's lost somewhere in the room . um so those are two things that we definitely do wan na address , uh we wan na s make it as simple as possible , we wan na make it um obvious and intuitive to use , and then the things about finding it we talked about the a light emitting thing as well as uh maybe a beep , and i think that those are things after my research that we definitely wan na try to incorporate . 'kay can we go to the next slide please ? okay , so , my personal preferences in this um project are really have to concentrate on the sizzle . that is the selling point , the thing that 's gon na make it an impulse purchase . uh because once there 's no be-back , well in sales they always say you know , be-backs do n't come back . industrial designer : marketing : if somebody says , oh i 'll come back and get it next week you 're dead . they 're never gon na come back and buy it . you 've got ta make it attractive enough so they buy it now now now w now is a big word in in my book for selling this thing . and , in order to make it really sellable we 've got ta shorten the learning curve , make sure it 's really intuitive and easy to use . we have to have as few buttons as possible , because more buttons is more confusion , so that 's why i 'm saying , simplicity is good . finding it 's important , obviously you ca n't use it if you ca n't find it . so we 've got ta concentrate on the features that help you find it , and i 've already said this several times but i put it down in writing here , it should be an attractive impulse purchase at twenty five euros . so it has to have enough value that when somebody looks at it they say , uh twenty five euros i 'm not gon na take that . has to be so great that they 're gon na say , uh twenty five euros is n't much . um and then maybe a motto , like we put fashion in electronics might be something we can use in our marketing campaign . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay that 's uh about it for me right now . project manager : okay . and uh who would be next , uh , i guess that would be you . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah 'kay . project manager : you want me to get your slide show up ? industrial designer : yeah yeah sure . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : thank you . project manager : and you are number three ? industrial designer : number two , project manager : number two . industrial designer : yeah . yeah exactly . project manager : okay . okay . industrial designer : uh can you make it uh full screen please ? project manager : mm-hmm . yep . industrial designer : no , it 's like a well you you have to press here . the cup cup shape here ? marketing : project manager : yeah yeah , uh-huh . industrial designer : the thir third . project manager : there , mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah exactly . uh so today i 'm going to talk about the working design of the remote controller . um can you go to the next sli slide please ? marketing : okay . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : the metal is like uh in a remote controller you have a chip integrated circuit which is like a brain of the remote controller . it takes the power from a battery say a battery it it can be a elec an electric supply like you have to uh like uh switch connec connect connect your remote controller to uh power supply from the you know electricity or something like that . it should be a battery because uh uh remote controller should be like you you you should take it t to wherever you want and then um uh th marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : this integrated circuitry takes energy from the power source and whatever like if you press a button it 's like a input for the remote controller and it takes the input and it it transforms into a infro infrared bits and it sends it into the device , like a tv or a air conditioner , something like that so . uh a remote controller is specifically designed to a single device . if you want to design it for multiple devices then you should make all the devices compatible with the frequency like uh th the remote controller it sends some bits some uh waves like with a particular frequency the device should know what the frequency is . it should re re recognise the uh waves which are coming from the remote controller and it should take the action like if you press a button channel or something like that then uh the remote uh remote controller will send a send a se send a signal , marketing : signal . industrial designer : and the tv it should translate that into like change the channel or something like that , change the volume control user interface : receive . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh so uh i think it 's hard to design a remote controller for multiple uh devices . user interface : multi-purpose . project manager : yo and it 's marketing : yeah well that 's already been eliminated by management , so we 're off the hook . project manager : yeah but it 's so . industrial designer : uh yeah . um . so uh user interface controls the chip and accordingly the messages like there should be a user user in interface like you know switch pad or something like that buttons should be there . so uh you can control whatever you want , you want to change the channel you want to control the volume you you want to uh mute uh mute the uh tv or you want to have a child lock or you want to do some operations there 's a there should be some device to tell what to do to the uh in uh integrated circuit so that the integrated circuit can s send the signals and tv can perform the actions . marketing : mm okay . industrial designer : so can you go to the next slide please ? marketing : okay . industrial designer : so i i just would like to uh add some extra features to the remote controller um i think these are the very simple features and uh they do n't take much uh uh much of the um um investment also , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's like el the text or buttons which uh which are there on the uh remote controller they those we can make uh um like fluorescent uh they 'll be like light emitting if it is dark so that you can find your remote controller if it is dark . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and ther there should be a beep if many buttons are pressed if suppose a child is playing with the remote controller and a and she she or he is pressing the buttons all at the time then there should be a beep saying that it 's this this is not a a you know a a action , there can be no action taking to that so . and there should be a child lock , like uh uh you should be able to lock your remote controller so that uh um whatever buttons are pressed by a child they ca n't be like y you i you if you have ki kids and all then they 'll be pl playing with the remote controllers so can lock the remote controller . if make it useable for more than one device it 's a it 's hard but i think it 's possible project manager : yeah well yeah well that has been e that has been eliminated , so that 's that 's unfortunately a moot point now . mm-hmm . industrial designer : but it uh marketing : well we already eliminated that . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah user interface : eliminated . industrial designer : so it 's it 's okay , yeah , yeah . and uh different shapes that we can do like uh we can have you know a all animals shapes or you know comfortable uh whi which can fit into your hands project manager : industrial designer : and um so that uh marketing : now that 's good from a marketing point of view , the fun the fun shape . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , yeah and colours also , different colours , and project manager : yeah i user interface : mm-hmm colours . marketing : and that you you say that wo n't add too much to the budget ? industrial designer : no no no , it wo n't uh i do n't think it will be like , marketing : to d the shape is uh industrial designer : you can have you know for uh if you want ther there to be more project manager : it just build a mould basically and uh you know . industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : yes exactly . industrial designer : it 's it 's just a s shape so it does n't matter . project manager : as the budget we 're looking at if you build one mould i do n't think that 's going to make a big difference whether it 's gon na be square or industrial designer : yeah . marketing : do you think there 's any chance of um having ser in having basically the same machine with the same buttons but maybe several different shapes ? industrial designer : yeah that is also possible i uh yeah i i yeah . project manager : oh yes . marketing : is that gon na be a possible ? project manager : i think marketing : 'cause that might help with the marketing . project manager : i think we will have to look at the budget on that industrial designer : yeah that will be project manager : but i think in principle that that would be that would be kind of fun , you know . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : because we had something sort of sexy for adults and we could have something sort of industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . user interface : project manager : silly for children . user interface : industrial designer : yeah , for children , yeah exactly . marketing : silly for children project manager : like an animal or marketing : or a little animal shape or in a or a little elephant so they can remember where it is . user interface : like a doll , or industrial designer : yeah , that 's what , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , exactly . yeah . user interface : yes . industrial designer : and and the butto buttons also i think if you want to have more features in your remote controller then there should be more buttons . if there are more buttons then it will be more complicated . if you have less features then your remote controller wo n't be attractive , so i think uh we need to make some buttons which are which are like um uh f in uh in intended for two or three operations , like if you press one button in one mode then it will change the channel , if you press the other button in another mode it will change the colour . so if you want to have less buttons we can have that option but i think it will complicate the matter more i think so . marketing : mm . well , i think i think that that 's something that we 'll have to discuss um with the user interface person industrial designer : yep , yeah . marketing : because i think there 's a lot of argument to be made for one button for one feature . because i think one of the things were complaining about in my what i found out in my research is when they complained about how hard it is to learn a new one . project manager : industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : the changing modes was something industrial designer : yeah , it 's like you know yeah . marketing : i mean you and i , all f all four of us we work with computers all the time , industrial designer : yeah . yeah , yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : changing modes is nothing for us , but people who project manager : yeah , a little elderly , a little arthritic hand you know , marketing : n and project manager : and and it 's a small button and and it they do n't press it exactly industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : you know something else happens n not their favourite channel comes up but something else industrial designer : yeah , yes . project manager : and they 're very frustrated you know . user interface : something else . marketing : and that 's and that 's the kind of thing people learn by feel , and um you do n't feel the mode change . industrial designer : yeah , yeah you do n't us yeah yeah , usually . yeah . marketing : so um maybe having buttons be various shapes might be a help too . industrial designer : yeah shapes also , different shapes . marketing : you know , like the a triangle is for the volume and a square is for changing channels , so that people can uh develop a tactile sense of it . industrial designer : yeah that will mm-hmm . user interface : channels . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : mm , mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : but we 'll get to that with you . industrial designer : yeah , and also text should be very clear so that there there wo n't be any ambiguities and uh marketing : that 's right , yeah . now that 's a good point . yeah . industrial designer : so yeah . project manager : industrial designer : and uh display clock i if you want more features then we can display a clock it i i do n't think it will take any money extra money because anyway we have an integrated circuit i think we can just definitely fit that feature into the circuit so it 's marketing : yeah , that 's that 's a good that 's a good one , project manager : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : yeah , and we display a clock . marketing : because the clock would be really friendly , and and when is your favourite show coming on industrial designer : yeah . yeah , and then you can just see your remote controller yeah yeah yeah so project manager : yeah you 're sitting there already or maybe you have no other uh user interface : yes . marketing : and yeah , and a lot of time there 's not a clock on the screen , and you have to go somewhere but you just wan na look at the news for a minute . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's that 's good , the clock is good . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . uh can you go to the next slide please ? marketing : okay . industrial designer : uh components uh the main components we need for uh it ha like buttons and uh underneath that there should be switch . and uh bulbs . like uh we can have a bulb like whenever we are operating a remote controller or uh whenever the tv is on suppose , then the remote controller should automatically have a b s light . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : then it will be like if you switch on your tv through anoth another source , not from through a remote remote controller and you you lost your remote controller maybe you can find with the light . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : maybe we can have that . whenever the tv is on , remote controller will have a light . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and then uh infrared bulbs . um this is like uh when it is dark . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , mm-hmm . industrial designer : and battery , there should be a battery for power supply , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and a chip , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : chip which is like a brain to the remote controller which does all the operations , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and wires connecting all chips , which is uh lights , everything , project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : so there should be wires . and uh uh of course there should be a case where we can keep all the things and , you know different shapes or whatever it is there should be a case to put to give a shape . user interface : to keep the remote ? yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : case . user interface : a case holder . a holder remote holder . industrial designer : yeah , holder . project manager : holder , yeah , mm-hmm . industrial designer : um uh can you move onto the next slide . um next sli slide please . um i have referred the site uh the homepage of the um our website , uh from where i have uh uh i got s few points . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : that 's it , that 's it from me now . project manager : okay . marketing : so it um we should visit this site and have a look at uh what 's up there ? or industrial designer : um . project manager : well , you do n't have to . industrial designer : uh it 's not like that , i have referred the page to get new ideas or like what can be the working design to how it works and all and so and so . marketing : okay . okay . so it might be helpful if we had a look at that . industrial designer : yeah if you want . yeah , it 's okay . marketing : okay , thank you . could you go back to that slide where she had that uh s slide up betsy ? industrial designer : uh , it 's actually there now , there on the screen . project manager : this one ? marketing : yeah , okay , thank you . project manager : and francine ? user interface : participant two . project manager : you are number two ? user interface : yes . no no , i 'm three . project manager : you 're three . would you want it full full screen ? user interface : i can make it full ? yes yes yes . project manager : mm-hmm ? okay . user interface : okay . as uh user interface designer i did a little research to find out what are the features which a user would like to have on their remote . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah can you please go onto the next slide ? project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so i found out that uh but uh the main purpose of a remote is to uh f control the function of a television at a far off distance at remote distance . now for that , uh a remote controller should have a switch on off button by which a user can sit anywhere in the room in front of the tv and he can control the functionalities different functionalities of the tv . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : there should be a signal uh something like a radio wave or a infrared light or a led which can be used to change the different functionalities in the television if the user wants to uh change the channels or increase the volume he can change it . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : now there should be some timer to set for viewing a particular a particular programme or switching on and off a uh a particular programme according to the user choice . project manager : on the on on the remote . yeah , mm-hmm . user interface : yes . yes . so if if he want to view a particular programme at say nine o'clock he can set the time , and the tv will automatically it will switch on at that particular time . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . right . mm-hmm . user interface : so he can use that kind of uh uh properties of features and then there should be a child lock system if a particular channel is not to be viewed by a particular uh for a certain age , then the parents can lock that particular channel so that the ch children can not view that channel . project manager : yes . by your child , mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh the uh the uh and the one of the feature a user would like to have is the compactness of the co remote . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : uh t the remote should be compact and it should ha it should have as many buttons as possible for controlling different functionalities of the tv television . and um uh as uh uh this is my personal preference that it should be in the shape of a t_ in alphabet for more compactability . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh and uh and it is one more point which i noted it down , like uh the material which which which is used for remotes should be human friendly it should not cause any skin disease or something some al allergy to either children or to um ad adult person . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : mm , 'kay . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and it should have an uh it can have an alarm clock a a person if some if somebody wants to get up at around eight eight p_m_ then he can set the time and it can be used as an alarm clock , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and i do n't think it will cost much to set an alarm clock inside a remote . industrial designer : yeah , sure . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : if there is a clock then there can be a alarm clock . marketing : and an alarm clock , yeah that should that should be okay . user interface : and as john reece said the buttons can be , uh can me we can use the fluorescence to light up the buttons so different uh buttons will glow differently . so in even in the dark the user can know what buttons to use to switch on a particular channel . and uh uh the design of the uh um remote should be in such a way that there should not be any sharp projections so that if a child plays with a remote , he uh he should not be harmed in any way . and findings , uh i found out uh y um on different sites that uh there are different remotes which can be used , there are remotes which use the infrared for controlling the different functionalities , there are remotes which use the radio waves to control the functions and there are uh so uh there you have different uh types of remotes for different light source which are used which can be used for controlling the different functionalities of a television . next slide . and these are my few personal preferences like it can be used for a multipurpose use . not , uh no uh like it can it can be used as a tv control as plus an alarm clock to set an alarm a timing and it should have a child lock , and then to save electricity uh there should not be uh much s move uh lots of circuits and all that . and if a person if if if parents wants the television to be switched off by ten o'clock then it should be switched off ten o at ten o'clock automatically , so that nobody else comes later and use it . industrial designer : it 's like a t okay , it 's like a timer it 's like a lock to the television . project manager : timer , yeah , mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : timer . yeah and then you can use a timer as well . yes . yeah that 's it . project manager : uh okay , now i have on my slide show basically we already we have already done the agenda , and uh on the closing uh basically there will be lunch break and all that . however uh the decision we have to take in this meeting is who is our target group . and uh what function , working design , how how does it work . user interface : okay . project manager : so these are the two things we should come up wit with . so uh the first thing is pro maybe a little easier on uh who is our target group . um . i guess in many ways everybody . everybody who has a tv . industrial designer : mm , tv , yeah . user interface : tv television we was . project manager : yeah , and i think today there are probably not many people who do n't have a tv . industrial designer : do n't tv , yeah . project manager : there are a few but in general not . now , talking about the target group which is in a sense everybody , but i think within the target group we have subgroups . we have we have earlier it was mentioned about um for example elderly people who have limited function with their fingers and hands , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so i think that 's uh one group that 's certainly important . um then we have just the nervous people who can never press a little button on anything um unless it 's really very clear . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh i do n't know how much we want to cater to children 's use . i mean that 's a question um whether that 's important that children can really use it or not . so this these are just some thoughts i have on it , and um i dunno what you feel about whether we can just say we have one target group and for this one target group we 're gon na design this one thing marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or whether we 're looking at what we like we we talking about different shapes , whether that different shape also includes maybe different uh buttons uh for different groups . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . well you know there 's the old motto , children under six never shop alone . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so if you 've designed something that 's very attractive to children um the mummy please mummy please um you know we want it now we wan na go to the store and see it um that has uh a lot of marketing pull . user interface : project manager : that has a lot of that has a lot of appeal but i think uh i 'm i 'm talking about the functionality now on it whether we 're looking at different groups . i think the children issue can be addressed with the shape and with colours . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : you know , like you make it nice and pink , fluorescent , banana colour or whatever you know user interface : different colours . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that 's right . you can make a banana shaped one . project manager : yeah , for example you know . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . mm . project manager : but the question is really , who is our target group . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : do we look at one target group ? and with the twenty five euros you know can we can we afford to have uh i 'm asking the technical people here whether um to look at sort of subgroups with maybe different buttons for each group how much would that throw us out of the cost we are supposed to respect ? user interface : marketing : respect . mm . user interface : okay . no uh generally we can we can design a remote which is mainly for people with uh f age from ten to um forty project manager : right . user interface : and and then we can add on uh specific functional buttons for children as well as the elderly people or the people wit with who have nervous problems , yes . project manager : with with mm-hmm . industrial designer : we can design different remotes for different people , like for aged people there will be big buttons and you know . project manager : well that 's that 's user interface : but in a family in a family there will be a aged person , children and a middle aged but they can not buy three different remotes . industrial designer : yeah . children and everybody , yeah . user interface : they would like to buy just one and um just one which can be used all the three uh industrial designer : yeah of course that we can do , but specifically if y if like elderly people want big buttons then you ca n't really make a bi big remote controller so maybe specifically you can design a big con remote controller for elderly and for children , like in a different you know . marketing : what about the electronics ? that 's not really gon na change much , is it ? project manager : yeah . user interface : cost effective . industrial designer : no , it it does n't cost , yeah . project manager : no marketing : that that w that wo n't change much , will it uh ? industrial designer : yeah . does n't does n't does n't matter . project manager : the the quest the question to be addressed here is only who is the target group and how will it function , marketing : i d i would n't think so . project manager : and i think the how will it function is probably the question of the buttons you know , within the target group or subgroups . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : the question is only whether our budget will allow to have more than one design in a sense . i mean the basic design i understand will be the same , marketing : yeah . project manager : but the question is how much will that set us back if let 's say uh forty percent we make large buttons and the rest we make regular buttons for example . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so that remains to s to be seen but uh the target group as a whole is is basically everybody with a tv . marketing : that 's right , and can we can we is it even feasible to make one one remote control with something for everyone , or would we have to use the same electronics and make three different shapes ? project manager : yeah , well that 's that 's the question . marketing : um the same electronics and basically all that 's gon na be different is the plastic case . industrial designer : hmm hmm . marketing : and in that case we could probabl moulded plastic is n't all that expensive is it ? industrial designer : uh no . mm , i i i do n't think no . it 's not . marketing : um you as an industrial person ? project manager : well maybe there 's there 's an idea you know t the new for example new portable phones ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : they have like removable plastic cases , so you can have a striped one or you can have a fluorescent blue one , or whatever , marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : and maybe something like that , user interface : okay . project manager : that in each package you know you have you you have you have for example uh you have let 's say a fluorescent blue on it but then you have uh another colour or stripe whatever that already comes in a package . marketing : well there 's a real idea yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : and then if people really want more colours they can buy it separately . marketing : yeah . project manager : you know , industrial designer : yeah , like for mobile phones we have uh different you know covers , like designs and all so that w we can have that . marketing : right . user interface : um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's right , and but like if if then everybody is is is tired of the fluorescent blue and of the striped or whatever they have as another one in the package , marketing : uh yeah . project manager : then they can go to the store and for a few uh francs or euros whatever they can buy industrial designer : yeah . marketing : an alternate package . project manager : an alternate package with another two colours in it you know for example you know . marketing : yeah . okay . user interface : but uh yeah i i have a doubt like will it be cost wise effective if we if we design a remote having all the uh different features for different people or designing three different um remotes for three different categories of people . project manager : well i think i think the idea here is to uh to to d design one remote industrial designer : yeah , but uh marketing : well i think we can only aff , yeah . user interface : okay . project manager : and what the only change is gon na be um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : the funct d t yeah uh marketing : cosmetic . user interface : of th okay . project manager : the functional functional cosmetics if you want to put it that way , user interface : okay . project manager : um having maybe larger buttons or buttons that light up or buttons that are slightly differently shaped for people uh either for children um user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : five minutes that was i guess tha that 's the old message . marketing : warning , finish meeting now . project manager : finish meeting now . um um . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : well we may have to come back to one or two of these points at our next meeting but um industrial designer : yeah , maybe , yeah , yeah . project manager : but i think industrial designer : if we do some more research , maybe we . project manager : i i think to sum it up the target group is basically everybody . if money permits we can address some features for some subgroups within that . user interface : okay , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : hmm yeah , project manager : do we agree , do we ? industrial designer : i think maybe seventy percent is a unique uh uh remote controller and thirty percent is yeah it 's sort of like yeah . marketing : okay but we have to l project manager : do we agree on on that in principle , like money will tell whether we will be able to do that or not . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , of course , yeah . marketing : okay , fair enough . project manager : okay ? so now i understand it 's lunch break . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and um . so that 's what we will do . marketing : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : so hank you very much . industrial designer : thank you . </s>
<s> what is the main function of the remote ? </s> user interface : so i found out that uh but uh the main purpose of a remote is to uh f control the function of a television at a far off distance at remote distance . now for that , uh a remote controller should have a switch on off button by which a user can sit anywhere in the room in front of the tv and he can control the functionalities different functionalities of the tv . marketing : project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : there should be a signal uh something like a radio wave or a infrared light or a led which can be used to change the different functionalities in the television if the user wants to uh change the channels or increase the volume he can change it . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : now there should be some timer to set for viewing a particular a particular programme or switching on and off a uh a particular programme according to the user choice . project manager : on the on on the remote . yeah , mm-hmm . user interface : yes . yes . so if if he want to view a particular programme at say nine o'clock he can set the time , and the tv will automatically it will switch on at that particular time . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . right . mm-hmm . user interface : so he can use that kind of uh uh properties of features and then there should be a child lock system if a particular channel is not to be viewed by a particular uh for a certain age , then the parents can lock that particular channel so that the ch children can not view that channel . project manager : yes . by your child , mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and findings , uh i found out uh y um on different sites that uh there are different remotes which can be used , there are remotes which use the infrared for controlling the different functionalities , there are remotes which use the radio waves to control the functions and there are uh so uh there you have different uh types of remotes for different light source which are used which can be used for controlling the different functionalities of a television . next slide . and these are my few personal preferences like it can be used for a multipurpose use . not , uh no uh like it can it can be used as a tv control as plus an alarm clock to set an alarm a timing and it should have a child lock , and then to save electricity uh there should not be uh much s move uh lots of circuits and all that . and if a person if if if parents wants the television to be switched off by ten o'clock then it should be switched off ten o at ten o'clock automatically , so that nobody else comes later and use it . industrial designer : it 's like a t okay , it 's like a timer it 's like a lock to the television . project manager : timer , yeah , mm-hmm , mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what were the other features of the remote mentioned in the discussion of functions of the remote ? </s> industrial designer : open . project manager : uh , okay , okay . marketing : there we go . okay well i think we have introduced ourselves , industrial designer : and then full screen . marketing : so the functional requirements are is is part of my goal but why do n't we pass right to the second slide . cause that 's where m my discussion starts . right well um since i 'm in charge of trying to figure out what we should put on this thing since i have to try to sell it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um i thought that the method i should follow would be gather suggestions from everybody , and th the reason i just put that there like that is that uh in the init in the initial stage i think i should just be open to lots of suggestions . you know you can say anything you want no matter how silly it sounds you know it should run your car , it should heat up your motor if should um turn on your c_d_ whatever you want it to do industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : um and then as we go on what we 'll have to do is accept and eliminate these suggestions according to um design and budget feasibility . so i 'll be coming to you um frequently as the industrial expert to tell me how hard it 's gon na be to add a feature or how expensive it 's gon na be or if your time , if it takes five years to develop this it 's just something we ca n't do . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . yeah . yeah . hmm hmm . mm . marketing : so in the beginning just have a big puddle of things that we anybody can th throw anything in industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and then just weed things out that ca n't be done for one reason or another , and then the things that seem the most attractive that to uh to a customer we 'll try to then prioritise those . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . marketing : so that was um what i meant there , and as i said on the slide there consulting the industrial engineer about that and the other thing is timing is really gon na be as important as money , because if we 're gon na sell this thing , i think the best time to sell it is as a christmas present . twenty five euros makes a nice little present , and we want it to be an impulse purchase , we want somebody to see it and think it 's , gee i just got ta have that . and take out their wallet and buy it . so it 's got ta be really attractive and it but it 's got ta go to market by september , 'cause anything that you do n't already have out there in september showing it around , is n't gon na sell for christmas . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um and then i 'll be coming to you as the user interface person to try to tell me from your point of view what are the most friendly features that we could put on it and try to prior help me with that prioritising of uh of the features and of the the look and the colour user interface : okay . marketing : and i 'll be coming back to you to help weed out those suggestions from that point of view . user interface : okay . marketing : so i 'll be coming to you for how much is it gon na cost us and how long is it gon na take you , industrial designer : mm mm-hmm . marketing : and i 'll be coming to you to tell me what 's gon na make somebody take out their wallet you know , user interface : what features . marketing : what what 's what 's gon na really be what they call a sizzle , user interface : s sellable . yes . marketing : 'cause we got ta sell this sizzle . industrial designer : marketing : a lot of times the thing that works the best from an engineering point of view is n't the thing that somebody 's really just gon na take out their wallet and buy for christmas for for their child or for their husband or whatever . okay can we go to the next slide please ? alright i i already did a little bit of research after our first meeting where we threw out some ideas and it looks to me that within the budget that we 're looking at the uh the whole house idea really is n't gon na be possible . so i 'd like your suggestions to come back to the other slide where i was saying we we could suggest anything . industrial designer : so i i just would like to uh add some extra features to the remote controller um i think these are the very simple features and uh they do n't take much uh uh much of the um um investment also , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's like el the text or buttons which uh which are there on the uh remote controller they those we can make uh um like fluorescent uh they 'll be like light emitting if it is dark so that you can find your remote controller if it is dark . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and ther there should be a beep if many buttons are pressed if suppose a child is playing with the remote controller and a and she she or he is pressing the buttons all at the time then there should be a beep saying that it 's this this is not a a you know a a action , there can be no action taking to that so . and there should be a child lock , like uh uh you should be able to lock your remote controller so that uh um whatever buttons are pressed by a child they ca n't be like y you i you if you have ki kids and all then they 'll be pl playing with the remote controllers so can lock the remote controller . if make it useable for more than one device it 's a it 's hard but i think it 's possible project manager : yeah well yeah well that has been e that has been eliminated , so that 's that 's unfortunately a moot point now . mm-hmm . industrial designer : but it uh marketing : well we already eliminated that . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah user interface : eliminated . industrial designer : so it 's it 's okay , yeah , yeah . and uh different shapes that we can do like uh we can have you know a all animals shapes or you know comfortable uh whi which can fit into your hands and uh display clock i if you want more features then we can display a clock it i i do n't think it will take any money extra money because anyway we have an integrated circuit i think we can just definitely fit that feature into the circuit so it 's marketing : yeah , that 's that 's a good that 's a good one , project manager : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : yeah , and we display a clock . marketing : because the clock would be really friendly , and and when is your favourite show coming on industrial designer : yeah . yeah , and then you can just see your remote controller yeah yeah yeah so project manager : yeah you 're sitting there already or maybe you have no other uh user interface : yes . marketing : and yeah , and a lot of time there 's not a clock on the screen , and you have to go somewhere but you just wan na look at the news for a minute . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's that 's good , the clock is good . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and it should have an uh it can have an alarm clock a a person if some if somebody wants to get up at around eight eight p_m_ then he can set the time and it can be used as an alarm clock , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and i do n't think it will cost much to set an alarm clock inside a remote . industrial designer : yeah , sure . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : if there is a clock then there can be a alarm clock . marketing : and an alarm clock , yeah that should that should be okay . </s>
<s> what did the team think about having buttons for multiple operations in the discussion of functions of the remote ? </s> industrial designer : and and the butto buttons also i think if you want to have more features in your remote controller then there should be more buttons . if there are more buttons then it will be more complicated . if you have less features then your remote controller wo n't be attractive , so i think uh we need to make some buttons which are which are like um uh f in uh in intended for two or three operations , like if you press one button in one mode then it will change the channel , if you press the other button in another mode it will change the colour . so if you want to have less buttons we can have that option but i think it will complicate the matter more i think so . marketing : mm . well , i think i think that that 's something that we 'll have to discuss um with the user interface person industrial designer : yep , yeah . marketing : because i think there 's a lot of argument to be made for one button for one feature . because i think one of the things were complaining about in my what i found out in my research is when they complained about how hard it is to learn a new one . project manager : industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : the changing modes was something industrial designer : yeah , it 's like you know yeah . marketing : i mean you and i , all f all four of us we work with computers all the time , industrial designer : yeah . yeah , yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : changing modes is nothing for us , but people who project manager : yeah , a little elderly , a little arthritic hand you know , marketing : n and project manager : and and it 's a small button and and it they do n't press it exactly industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : you know something else happens n not their favourite channel comes up but something else industrial designer : yeah , yes . project manager : and they 're very frustrated you know . user interface : something else . uh t the remote should be compact and it should ha it should have as many buttons as possible for controlling different functionalities of the tv television . and um uh as uh uh this is my personal preference that it should be in the shape of a t_ in alphabet for more compactability . </s>
<s> what is the product positioning of the remote ? </s> marketing : so that was um what i meant there , and as i said on the slide there consulting the industrial engineer about that and the other thing is timing is really gon na be as important as money , because if we 're gon na sell this thing , i think the best time to sell it is as a christmas present . twenty five euros makes a nice little present , and we want it to be an impulse purchase , we want somebody to see it and think it 's , gee i just got ta have that . and take out their wallet and buy it . so it 's got ta be really attractive and it but it 's got ta go to market by september , 'cause anything that you do n't already have out there in september showing it around , is n't gon na sell for christmas . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um and then i 'll be coming to you as the user interface person to try to tell me from your point of view what are the most friendly features that we could put on it and try to prior help me with that prioritising of uh of the features and of the the look and the colour alright , thanks for that . um alright now other things that i found out on in my research is that the complaints that people have about the remote controls that are out there now . 'cause a lot of them take too much time to learn how to use , and that was thirty four percent but even more important the thing that we did address in our last meeting that frequently it 's lost somewhere in the room . um so those are two things that we definitely do wan na address , uh we wan na s make it as simple as possible , we wan na make it um obvious and intuitive to use , and then the things about finding it we talked about the a light emitting thing as well as uh maybe a beep , and i think that those are things after my research that we definitely wan na try to incorporate . 'kay can we go to the next slide please ? okay , so , my personal preferences in this um project are really have to concentrate on the sizzle . that is the selling point , the thing that 's gon na make it an impulse purchase . uh because once there 's no be-back , well in sales they always say you know , be-backs do n't come back . industrial designer : marketing : if somebody says , oh i 'll come back and get it next week you 're dead . they 're never gon na come back and buy it . you 've got ta make it attractive enough so they buy it now now now w now is a big word in in my book for selling this thing . and , in order to make it really sellable we 've got ta shorten the learning curve , make sure it 's really intuitive and easy to use . we have to have as few buttons as possible , because more buttons is more confusion , so that 's why i 'm saying , simplicity is good . finding it 's important , obviously you ca n't use it if you ca n't find it . so we 've got ta concentrate on the features that help you find it , and i 've already said this several times but i put it down in writing here , it should be an attractive impulse purchase at twenty five euros . so it has to have enough value that when somebody looks at it they say , uh twenty five euros i 'm not gon na take that . has to be so great that they 're gon na say , uh twenty five euros is n't much . um and then maybe a motto , like we put fashion in electronics might be something we can use in our marketing campaign . project manager : so these are the two things we should come up wit with . so uh the first thing is pro maybe a little easier on uh who is our target group . um . i guess in many ways everybody . everybody who has a tv . industrial designer : mm , tv , yeah . user interface : tv television we was . project manager : yeah , and i think today there are probably not many people who do n't have a tv . industrial designer : do n't tv , yeah . project manager : there are a few but in general not . now , talking about the target group which is in a sense everybody , but i think within the target group we have subgroups . we have we have earlier it was mentioned about um for example elderly people who have limited function with their fingers and hands , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so i think that 's uh one group that 's certainly important . um then we have just the nervous people who can never press a little button on anything um unless it 's really very clear . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh i do n't know how much we want to cater to children 's use . i mean that 's a question um whether that 's important that children can really use it or not . so this these are just some thoughts i have on it , and um i dunno what you feel about whether we can just say we have one target group and for this one target group we 're gon na design this one thing marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or whether we 're looking at what we like we we talking about different shapes , whether that different shape also includes maybe different uh buttons uh for different groups . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . well you know there 's the old motto , children under six never shop alone . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so if you 've designed something that 's very attractive to children um the mummy please mummy please um you know we want it now we wan na go to the store and see it um that has uh a lot of marketing pull . user interface : project manager : that has a lot of that has a lot of appeal but i think uh i 'm i 'm talking about the functionality now on it whether we 're looking at different groups . i think the children issue can be addressed with the shape and with colours . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : you know , like you make it nice and pink , fluorescent , banana colour or whatever you know user interface : different colours . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that 's right . you can make a banana shaped one . project manager : yeah , for example you know . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . mm . project manager : but the question is really , who is our target group . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : do we look at one target group ? and with the twenty five euros you know can we can we afford to have uh i 'm asking the technical people here whether um to look at sort of subgroups with maybe different buttons for each group how much would that throw us out of the cost we are supposed to respect ? user interface : marketing : respect . mm . user interface : okay . no uh generally we can we can design a remote which is mainly for people with uh f age from ten to um forty project manager : right . user interface : and and then we can add on uh specific functional buttons for children as well as the elderly people or the people wit with who have nervous problems , yes . project manager : with with mm-hmm . industrial designer : we can design different remotes for different people , like for aged people there will be big buttons and you know . project manager : well that 's that 's user interface : but in a family in a family there will be a aged person , children and a middle aged but they can not buy three different remotes . industrial designer : yeah . children and everybody , yeah . user interface : they would like to buy just one and um just one which can be used all the three uh industrial designer : yeah of course that we can do , but specifically if y if like elderly people want big buttons then you ca n't really make a bi big remote controller so maybe specifically you can design a big con remote controller for elderly and for children , like in a different you know . marketing : what about the electronics ? that 's not really gon na change much , is it ? project manager : yeah . user interface : cost effective . industrial designer : no , it it does n't cost , yeah . project manager : no marketing : that that w that wo n't change much , will it uh ? industrial designer : yeah . does n't does n't does n't matter . project manager : the the quest the question to be addressed here is only who is the target group and how will it function , marketing : i d i would n't think so . project manager : and i think the how will it function is probably the question of the buttons you know , within the target group or subgroups . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : the question is only whether our budget will allow to have more than one design in a sense . i mean the basic design i understand will be the same , marketing : yeah . project manager : but the question is how much will that set us back if let 's say uh forty percent we make large buttons and the rest we make regular buttons for example . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so that remains to s to be seen but uh the target group as a whole is is basically everybody with a tv . marketing : that 's right , and can we can we is it even feasible to make one one remote control with something for everyone , or would we have to use the same electronics and make three different shapes ? project manager : yeah , well that 's that 's the question . marketing : um the same electronics and basically all that 's gon na be different is the plastic case . industrial designer : hmm hmm . marketing : and in that case we could probabl moulded plastic is n't all that expensive is it ? industrial designer : uh no . mm , i i i do n't think no . it 's not . marketing : um you as an industrial person ? project manager : well maybe there 's there 's an idea you know t the new for example new portable phones ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : they have like removable plastic cases , so you can have a striped one or you can have a fluorescent blue one , or whatever , marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : and maybe something like that , user interface : okay . project manager : that in each package you know you have you you have you have for example uh you have let 's say a fluorescent blue on it but then you have uh another colour or stripe whatever that already comes in a package . marketing : well there 's a real idea yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : and then if people really want more colours they can buy it separately . marketing : yeah . project manager : you know , industrial designer : yeah , like for mobile phones we have uh different you know covers , like designs and all so that w we can have that . marketing : right . user interface : um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's right , and but like if if then everybody is is is tired of the fluorescent blue and of the striped or whatever they have as another one in the package , marketing : uh yeah . project manager : then they can go to the store and for a few uh francs or euros whatever they can buy industrial designer : yeah . marketing : an alternate package . project manager : an alternate package with another two colours in it you know for example you know . marketing : yeah . okay . user interface : but uh yeah i i have a doubt like will it be cost wise effective if we if we design a remote having all the uh different features for different people or designing three different um remotes for three different categories of people . project manager : well i think i think the idea here is to uh to to d design one remote industrial designer : yeah , but uh marketing : well i think we can only aff , yeah . user interface : okay . project manager : and what the only change is gon na be um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : the funct d t yeah uh marketing : cosmetic . user interface : of th okay . project manager : the functional functional cosmetics if you want to put it that way , user interface : okay . project manager : um having maybe larger buttons or buttons that light up or buttons that are slightly differently shaped for people uh either for children um user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : five minutes that was i guess tha that 's the old message . marketing : warning , finish meeting now . project manager : finish meeting now . um um . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : well we may have to come back to one or two of these points at our next meeting but um industrial designer : yeah , maybe , yeah , yeah . project manager : but i think industrial designer : if we do some more research , maybe we . project manager : i i think to sum it up the target group is basically everybody . if money permits we can address some features for some subgroups within that . user interface : okay , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : hmm yeah , project manager : do we agree , do we ? industrial designer : i think maybe seventy percent is a unique uh uh remote controller and thirty percent is yeah it 's sort of like yeah . marketing : okay but we have to l project manager : do we agree on on that in principle , like money will tell whether we will be able to do that or not . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , of course , yeah . marketing : okay , fair enough . project manager : okay ? so now i understand it 's lunch break . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and um . so that 's what we will do . marketing : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : so hank you very much . industrial designer : thank you . </s>
<s> what is the appearance of the remote ? </s> marketing : so that was um what i meant there , and as i said on the slide there consulting the industrial engineer about that and the other thing is timing is really gon na be as important as money , because if we 're gon na sell this thing , i think the best time to sell it is as a christmas present . twenty five euros makes a nice little present , and we want it to be an impulse purchase , we want somebody to see it and think it 's , gee i just got ta have that . and take out their wallet and buy it . so it 's got ta be really attractive and it but it 's got ta go to market by september , 'cause anything that you do n't already have out there in september showing it around , is n't gon na sell for christmas . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um and then i 'll be coming to you as the user interface person to try to tell me from your point of view what are the most friendly features that we could put on it and try to prior help me with that prioritising of uh of the features and of the the look and the colour industrial designer : so it 's it 's okay , yeah , yeah . and uh different shapes that we can do like uh we can have you know a all animals shapes or you know comfortable uh whi which can fit into your hands project manager : industrial designer : and um so that uh marketing : now that 's good from a marketing point of view , the fun the fun shape . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , yeah and colours also , different colours , and project manager : yeah i user interface : mm-hmm colours . marketing : and that you you say that wo n't add too much to the budget ? industrial designer : no no no , it wo n't uh i do n't think it will be like , marketing : to d the shape is uh industrial designer : you can have you know for uh if you want ther there to be more project manager : it just build a mould basically and uh you know . industrial designer : yeah yeah . user interface : yes exactly . industrial designer : it 's it 's just a s shape so it does n't matter . project manager : as the budget we 're looking at if you build one mould i do n't think that 's going to make a big difference whether it 's gon na be square or industrial designer : yeah . marketing : do you think there 's any chance of um having ser in having basically the same machine with the same buttons but maybe several different shapes ? industrial designer : yeah that is also possible i uh yeah i i yeah . project manager : oh yes . marketing : is that gon na be a possible ? project manager : i think marketing : 'cause that might help with the marketing . project manager : i think we will have to look at the budget on that industrial designer : yeah that will be project manager : but i think in principle that that would be that would be kind of fun , you know . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : because we had something sort of sexy for adults and we could have something sort of industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . user interface : project manager : silly for children . user interface : industrial designer : yeah , for children , yeah exactly . marketing : silly for children project manager : like an animal or marketing : or a little animal shape or in a or a little elephant so they can remember where it is . user interface : like a doll , or industrial designer : yeah , that 's what , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , exactly . yeah . user interface : yes . marketing : so um maybe having buttons be various shapes might be a help too . industrial designer : yeah shapes also , different shapes . marketing : you know , like the a triangle is for the volume and a square is for changing channels , so that people can uh develop a tactile sense of it . industrial designer : yeah that will mm-hmm . user interface : channels . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . project manager : mm , mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : but we 'll get to that with you . </s>
<s> what did the team think of project manager 's idea of removable plastic cases when discussing the appearance of the remote ? </s> marketing : um the same electronics and basically all that 's gon na be different is the plastic case . industrial designer : hmm hmm . marketing : and in that case we could probabl moulded plastic is n't all that expensive is it ? industrial designer : uh no . mm , i i i do n't think no . it 's not . marketing : um you as an industrial person ? project manager : well maybe there 's there 's an idea you know t the new for example new portable phones ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : they have like removable plastic cases , so you can have a striped one or you can have a fluorescent blue one , or whatever , marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : and maybe something like that , user interface : okay . project manager : that in each package you know you have you you have you have for example uh you have let 's say a fluorescent blue on it but then you have uh another colour or stripe whatever that already comes in a package . marketing : well there 's a real idea yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : and then if people really want more colours they can buy it separately . marketing : yeah . project manager : you know , industrial designer : yeah , like for mobile phones we have uh different you know covers , like designs and all so that w we can have that . marketing : right . user interface : um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's right , and but like if if then everybody is is is tired of the fluorescent blue and of the striped or whatever they have as another one in the package , marketing : uh yeah . project manager : then they can go to the store and for a few uh francs or euros whatever they can buy industrial designer : yeah . marketing : an alternate package . project manager : an alternate package with another two colours in it you know for example you know . </s>
<s> what are the main components and working design of the remote ? </s> industrial designer : yeah 'kay . project manager : you want me to get your slide show up ? industrial designer : yeah yeah sure . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : thank you . project manager : and you are number three ? industrial designer : number two , project manager : number two . industrial designer : yeah . yeah exactly . project manager : okay . okay . industrial designer : uh can you make it uh full screen please ? project manager : mm-hmm . yep . industrial designer : no , it 's like a well you you have to press here . the cup cup shape here ? marketing : project manager : yeah yeah , uh-huh . industrial designer : the thir third . project manager : there , mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah exactly . uh so today i 'm going to talk about the working design of the remote controller . um can you go to the next sli slide please ? marketing : okay . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : the metal is like uh in a remote controller you have a chip integrated circuit which is like a brain of the remote controller . it takes the power from a battery say a battery it it can be a elec an electric supply like you have to uh like uh switch connec connect connect your remote controller to uh power supply from the you know electricity or something like that . it should be a battery because uh uh remote controller should be like you you you should take it t to wherever you want and then um uh th marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : this integrated circuitry takes energy from the power source and whatever like if you press a button it 's like a input for the remote controller and it takes the input and it it transforms into a infro infrared bits and it sends it into the device , like a tv or a air conditioner , something like that so . uh a remote controller is specifically designed to a single device . if you want to design it for multiple devices then you should make all the devices compatible with the frequency like uh th the remote controller it sends some bits some uh waves like with a particular frequency the device should know what the frequency is . it should re re recognise the uh waves which are coming from the remote controller and it should take the action like if you press a button channel or something like that then uh the remote uh remote controller will send a send a se send a signal , marketing : signal . industrial designer : and the tv it should translate that into like change the channel or something like that , change the volume control user interface : receive . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh so uh i think it 's hard to design a remote controller for multiple uh devices . user interface : multi-purpose . project manager : yo and it 's marketing : yeah well that 's already been eliminated by management , so we 're off the hook . project manager : yeah but it 's so . industrial designer : uh yeah . um . so uh user interface controls the chip and accordingly the messages like there should be a user user in interface like you know switch pad or something like that buttons should be there . so uh you can control whatever you want , you want to change the channel you want to control the volume you you want to uh mute uh mute the uh tv or you want to have a child lock or you want to do some operations there 's a there should be some device to tell what to do to the uh in uh integrated circuit so that the integrated circuit can s send the signals and tv can perform the actions . marketing : mm okay . industrial designer : so can you go to the next slide please ? marketing : okay . industrial designer : uh components uh the main components we need for uh it ha like buttons and uh underneath that there should be switch . and uh bulbs . like uh we can have a bulb like whenever we are operating a remote controller or uh whenever the tv is on suppose , then the remote controller should automatically have a b s light . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : then it will be like if you switch on your tv through anoth another source , not from through a remote remote controller and you you lost your remote controller maybe you can find with the light . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : maybe we can have that . whenever the tv is on , remote controller will have a light . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and then uh infrared bulbs . um this is like uh when it is dark . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , mm-hmm . industrial designer : and battery , there should be a battery for power supply , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and a chip , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : chip which is like a brain to the remote controller which does all the operations , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and wires connecting all chips , which is uh lights , everything , project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : so there should be wires . and uh uh of course there should be a case where we can keep all the things and , you know different shapes or whatever it is there should be a case to put to give a shape . user interface : to keep the remote ? yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : case . user interface : a case holder . a holder remote holder . industrial designer : yeah , holder . project manager : holder , yeah , mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did the team think of designing different remotes for different categories of people when discussing the working design of the remote ? </s> user interface : and and then we can add on uh specific functional buttons for children as well as the elderly people or the people wit with who have nervous problems , yes . project manager : with with mm-hmm . industrial designer : we can design different remotes for different people , like for aged people there will be big buttons and you know . project manager : well that 's that 's user interface : but in a family in a family there will be a aged person , children and a middle aged but they can not buy three different remotes . industrial designer : yeah . children and everybody , yeah . user interface : they would like to buy just one and um just one which can be used all the three uh industrial designer : yeah of course that we can do , but specifically if y if like elderly people want big buttons then you ca n't really make a bi big remote controller so maybe specifically you can design a big con remote controller for elderly and for children , like in a different you know . marketing : what about the electronics ? that 's not really gon na change much , is it ? project manager : yeah . user interface : cost effective . industrial designer : no , it it does n't cost , yeah . project manager : no marketing : that that w that wo n't change much , will it uh ? industrial designer : yeah . does n't does n't does n't matter . project manager : the the quest the question to be addressed here is only who is the target group and how will it function , marketing : i d i would n't think so . project manager : and i think the how will it function is probably the question of the buttons you know , within the target group or subgroups . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : the question is only whether our budget will allow to have more than one design in a sense . i mean the basic design i understand will be the same , marketing : yeah . project manager : but the question is how much will that set us back if let 's say uh forty percent we make large buttons and the rest we make regular buttons for example . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so that remains to s to be seen but uh the target group as a whole is is basically everybody with a tv . marketing : that 's right , and can we can we is it even feasible to make one one remote control with something for everyone , or would we have to use the same electronics and make three different shapes ? project manager : yeah , well that 's that 's the question . marketing : um the same electronics and basically all that 's gon na be different is the plastic case . industrial designer : hmm hmm . marketing : and in that case we could probabl moulded plastic is n't all that expensive is it ? industrial designer : uh no . mm , i i i do n't think no . it 's not . marketing : um you as an industrial person ? project manager : well maybe there 's there 's an idea you know t the new for example new portable phones ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : but uh yeah i i have a doubt like will it be cost wise effective if we if we design a remote having all the uh different features for different people or designing three different um remotes for three different categories of people . project manager : well i think i think the idea here is to uh to to d design one remote industrial designer : yeah , but uh marketing : well i think we can only aff , yeah . user interface : okay . project manager : and what the only change is gon na be um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : the funct d t yeah uh marketing : cosmetic . user interface : of th okay . project manager : the functional functional cosmetics if you want to put it that way , user interface : okay . project manager : um having maybe larger buttons or buttons that light up or buttons that are slightly differently shaped for people uh either for children um user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : five minutes that was i guess tha that 's the old message . marketing : warning , finish meeting now . project manager : finish meeting now . um um . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : well we may have to come back to one or two of these points at our next meeting but um industrial designer : yeah , maybe , yeah , yeah . project manager : but i think industrial designer : if we do some more research , maybe we . project manager : i i think to sum it up the target group is basically everybody . if money permits we can address some features for some subgroups within that . user interface : okay , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : hmm yeah , project manager : do we agree , do we ? industrial designer : i think maybe seventy percent is a unique uh uh remote controller and thirty percent is yeah it 's sort of like yeah . marketing : okay but we have to l project manager : do we agree on on that in principle , like money will tell whether we will be able to do that or not . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm yeah . project manager : okay . i g yeah . time is it ? marketing : fourteen twenty six . project manager : okay . lovely to see you all again . um it 's our conceptual design meeting and it 's starting at approximately fourteen twenty five and so we have forty minutes for this one again and so we 'll go just after three o'clock . um okay our agenda , we 're gon na do an opening , i 'm gon na review the minutes of the last meeting , then we 'll have your three presentations um and then we 'll have to make a decision on the remote control concepts , and finally we 'll close . so industrial designer : okay . project manager : opening . um these are our minutes from r the functional design . we decided our target group is the focus on who can afford it , because we have international appeal and we said it 's for all age groups , different um functions of it . our main objectives were simplicity and fashion . and s um in specific functions are something to keep the remote from getting lost , large buttons for the essential functions , a possibility for extra functions , like a sliding a sliding piece and a long-life battery or a charging station . okay , now three presentations . i 'd like to do it in this order , first do the conceptual specification of components , properties and materials um and then the conceptual specification of user interface and finally trend watching . industrial designer : that would be me . alright . well . project manager : mm . 'kay . function f_ eight it . there we go . industrial designer : alright . um i 'm very excited by this one actually guys i uh had a lot of fun doing it . components design . this is where you look at what does it take to make a remote control and what should we make our specific remote control out of . um . so , we need to examine each element separately , but we 're designing a full thing , so you wan na keep it integrated as a whole . the main elements of remote controls in general , and therefore ours as well , are the case , the buttons , the circuit board with the chip and the battery . these are all things that we had sort of addressed before , but i 'm gon na take each one a little bit separately here as we figure out what they should be made of and what they should look like . the case , uh the options that i 've gotten from headquarters about what we can do , um there 's there 's the shape of a case , we could do a flat sh a flat case , a curved case or maybe even a double double-curved case . i have n't seen any pictures of what this exactly looks like yet , just keep that in mind , but these are the options that we have from manufacturing and we can make our case out of plastic , the m the main base will be plastic , but we have all these sort of fashion and technological elements we can add in , wood , latex , titanium , rubber or other coloured types of plastic . that would be our case . um buttons , for buttons we have um pushbuttons , which is what real reaction uses the most often , but we also have scror scroll wheels , which can have integrated pushbuttons , or we could go all high-tech and have an l_ lcd screen . um circuit board and chip we can have a simple one , a regular one or an advanced one , depending on what our other needs are . and then battery i think is where things get most exciting . we 're talking about long-life batteries here . um we can we can have your sort of basic double a_ batteries , but we also have these options of um using a kinetic battery , like are used in high-tech watches , where you just have to move it a little bit to get it to power up . um so simple movements like pushing buttons would recharge the battery . or a solar battery , although there are slight um complications with solar batteries as in we ca n't use a latex case if we have a solar battery . or um something they only described as the type of battery you find in torches from about fifty years ago , flashlights . not quite sure what that is , but that 's the description that i received , so that 's what i 'm passing on to you . so those are our options . um personal preferences that i was thinking through here 's what we 've been talking about all through , fashion and simplicity . so if we 're going for fashion in our cases , i think that what we 're gon na wan na look at is a curved or a double-curved case , probably with a variety of design elements . maybe titanium , maybe some wood . we 're gon na have to investigate that better when i get specifics of the actual materials , but that 's sort of what i have in mind . and we wan na go for simplicity . probably pushbuttons , but i 'm sort of intrigued by the idea of a scroll scroll wheel , if anyone has anything any ideas on that ? i mean i know the ipods and things right now have touch scroll um buttons which are exactly like what they 're describing , so that might be something we wan na look into . and i 'm really intrigued by the idea of a kinetic battery . solar i do n't think would be such a good idea , because how often are you sure that your remote control will get a certain amount of light . project manager : industrial designer : but this idea of the kinetic , that you do n't have to replace , and that a simple just shaking it around will make it work , i think that that m would be a very interesting thing . but i think we 'd also wan na go for e a simple chip or regular chip to keep our costs down . uh we really only need a regular or advanced chip t if we 're gon na start using an lcd . so i think we want to be aware of not making things overly t technological if they do n't need to be , 'cause that 'll keep our manufacturing price way down . that 's what i have for options . um i 'd appreciate anyone 's input , but that 's what i 'm seeing for the future of the the look of this thing . marketing : is double-curved like would be like two hands kind of thing ? industrial designer : i 'm not sure . i have n't received any specific marketing : okay . industrial designer : visuals of this yet . marketing : 'cause i 'm imagining like double-curved is like , you know , like two sides that curve industrial designer : this is what i 'm sort of marketing : and then like one curve would just be like a single vertical-ish kind of looking thing , industrial designer : yeah . i 'm not sure , marketing : but i 've no idea . industrial designer : but i 'll let you know as soon as i get any pictures . marketing : sounds good . project manager : yeah , i wonder industrial designer : i know if we do have a double-curved case , it ca n't have any titanium in it . but the titanium , they were quite they 're marketing quite hard to us as being used in the space programme , so that could be quite interesting . user interface : industrial designer : space-age remote . project manager : mm-hmm . just an interesting marketing kind of element . industrial designer : just all things to keep in mind . yeah . that 's about all i have to do , guys . i hope i did n't go through that too quickly . project manager : uh just a real quick question um the weight of these different elements , have you industrial designer : yeah , n project manager : no idea , okay . industrial designer : no idea , no idea . um i 'm assuming that a kinetic battery is n't gon na take up that much weight , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and that a tita titanium is very light , i know , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um but other than that 's really basic , i mean , that 's all i have gotten so far . project manager : okay . industrial designer : alright ? any other questions ? user interface : uh-huh . do n't think so . industrial designer : no ? okay . project manager : mm 'kay . industrial designer : i have save this in the uh shared projects , if anyone wants to look project manager : thank you , perfect . industrial designer : and i have c considerable notes on the topic as well , if anyone needs any more information . uh marketing : thanks . project manager : um if you made notes yourself you can put those on our um underneath our oh , uh in your book , industrial designer : just in my notebook , project manager : then do n't worry about that . industrial designer : but if anyone has any specific questions , do n't hesitate to email me or something . alright ? uh i guess i can project manager : 'kay now we 're um concepts concepts of user interface . marketing : project manager : yeah , um . this one 's so much tighter than the other one . industrial designer : i know . project manager : okay . nope . there we go . here you are . user interface : jess . industrial designer : g oh , geez . user interface : alright , so i 'm gon na describe the the concept of the user interface of this des device . um we 've talked about uh the two essential properties of the user interface . we want it to be simple and we want it to be fashionable . um other we 've also got to remember that this is a device that serves as a useful purpose . uh we want people to be able to use it s as a remote control , so we need to determine what the essential functions of the d of the device are and make sure that we include that we 've included all of those and that we actually end up with a device that is going to be useful to people . we have a number of different choices for a design concept um and s that 's that 's something that that i 'll show you some examples of um , but essentially we need to choose how how is this device going to work , industrial designer : user interface : how how what kind of model is there going to be for user interaction with this device . uh once we 've chosen a a concept for it , we can then design the features around the concept , making sure that we get all the essential functions in the device and uh the extra functions and the more advanced features . and of course we also have to make it look cool . industrial designer : user interface : so basically , marketing : user interface : that 's what we do n't want . m we do n't want lots of buttons , uh complicated features . we want something that looks nice and simple . here 's a a fairly simple device . this is an an ipod from apple . um i think the main thing to notice about it is it just has four buttons . it 's very minimalistic in its design . uh you use these four buttons to m to move around a range of settings on the small lcd screen . um the thing i like about this is that it 's very very quick to access the main features . uh you can just about make out uh that the button three buttons are uh previous track , next track and play pause . they 're the main the main features of the ipod , the things you will use a all the time . um then if you want to do anything more advanced , you go into the little menu on the lcd screen and you use the buttons just to scroll around and and find the more advanced features that you want . so i think that 's that 's a good a good kind of model that we could have . um here 's a another example . this is uh it 's an interesting idea and i think i it looks pretty cool . um it 's certainly got novelty value . uh it 's nice and colourful , it 's nice and bright . uh it 's also something that you can kind of feel your way around . the buttons are are different shapes and and you can sort of yeah if you 're watching tv in the dark or whatever , you can work out which button 's which and basically , yeah it 's ith it 's fun . so i i like i like this idea of just having buttons for the features that you use most often . so you 'd need a few buttons to select your favourite channels . i mean most people , when they watch tv , they have two hundred and fifty channels on their tv and they watch of 'bout four of them at the most . so , you have buttons for your favourite channel , changing the volume , which is something you do all the time when you 're watching tv , and the button to switch it off , in case you get bored . um other features , things like adjusting the brightness , tuning the tv , uh i do n't know what else you do with a tv . um but these are these are all necessary functions . uh you ca n't have a t there 's no point having a television that you ca n't tune or that you ca n't set the contrast , so we need to find a way of including these somehow . um and one other suggestions i 'd make is to in is to include in a menu system , a bit like on the ipod . so we 'd either have a small lcd display on the device itself , or uh have a dis a menu display that comes up on your television and can b be controlled through the device . and that would allow you to access access the advanced features uh whilst keeping a very small and simple set of buttons for the features that you use most often . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so you 'd be advocating an lcd then ? user interface : i think that 's that 's one way to go , yes . industrial designer : okay . user interface : um i mean there are there are advantages and disadvantages if you if you have an lcd display , it 's it 's nice , because it 's it it lets you just sort of sit there and st and control your television from your armchair . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : there are disadvantages , an an lcd display would have to be quite small , 'cause we 're we 're i well we 're i assume we 're gon na be making quite a small device . um it would also have to have uh a kind of backlighting in it , 'cause you ten you tend to watch tv in the dark , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . user interface : but you need to be able to see your l_d_d_ lcd display . the alternative is to have a an on-screen display on your television that you control through your remote control . uh a bit like a bit like how they have these um digital boxes where you you press the buttons and it comes up with your this thing of watch lo what 's on each channel . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . user interface : i mean that that 's also a good idea . it 's it can it does have it 's problems as well , if you 've got a small tv and you 're sitting on the other side of a room , it 's hard to read the little text that comes up . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : uh but that 's a that 's a design decision that we can make . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : i do think that um one of the important features for a remote is seeing a menu and seeing what 's on . marketing : project manager : um and so user interface : yeah . project manager : like favourite channels is is applicable , but i think th that you do need to have some kind of function where it 's um you have t you can see the title of the show or possibly a description of it . industrial designer : well are you are you tak project manager : like i i know i use that often enough . user interface : yeah . marketing : wait , but is that separate from what he was saying ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : if it if it was a l_ lcd on th on the remote , i do n't know that you could f that you 'd be able to see a industrial designer : no , i think i think we 're talking menu like contrast and tuning the v_c_r_ or something if i 've understood you correctly , rather than menu as what 's on . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah , that that would be one of the features , yes . project manager : okay . 'cause that would be more specifically a digital box , user interface : but it 's it 's it 's something to bear in mind is that if we put a display on the remote control the c uh communication is one way , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you ca n't have the televisions and information back to the remote control , at least i do n't think you can . industrial designer : oh , good point . user interface : um i 'm not sure . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , now we 're moving on to market . marketing . marketing : should i plug that in ? project manager : marketing : user interface : is that going on ? okay . marketing : maybe it 's just not user interface : uh that should be alright , actually . marketing : is it on ? ri what f_ do you have to press , project manager : eight . marketing : five ? i just keep pressing lots of 'em . well , i do n't know how relevant all of this gon na be . if anything , the that they gave me . project manager : oops , it 's not plugged in , quite in well enough . industrial designer : no signal . marketing : alright . project manager : there we are . industrial designer : oop , there we go . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : oh yeah . okay , so we 're gon na look a little bit at trend watching . basically , i was given um an executive summary that was a market investigation on remote controls that was recently conducted , and then also some fashion watchers in paris and milan commented on some things that are gon na be going on this year . project manager : marketing : so first um they had people they ranked um the important aspects of r remote controls , and right now i d they 're saying that currently there 's a functional look and feel preference , but that really , over the next year it it that 's gon na be switching to fancy look and feel remotes , so that just goes back to the whole desire of our c real reaction company wanting to focus on fashion and so , even though we 're stressing , when we 're talking , we 've all been talking about this like simplicity and easy to use idea , they 're sort of wanting us to remember that the number one thing for everyone is that it 's fancy look and feel . and as these are ranked , the top one is doubly important to the second one , which is doubly important to the third one , industrial designer : okay . marketing : so just to take that weight into account . the second thing that was mentioned as important was the technological innovations . that would be like if we use something like the space material or the lcd screen , things like that . and then ease of use was the third most important , whi so really , no matter what , we need to focus the most on fancy look and feel , according to this . i do n't know how much we agree with that . and then the fashion watch talks about that this year 's top trend for clothes , industrial designer : user interface : marketing : shoes and furniture is fruits and vegetables and tha that there 's a preference for spongy , tight material . user interface : project manager : s sweet . marketing : and so that brings us to my personal preferences . who wants a spongy remote or one with fruit and vegetable padding . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : personally , i do n't really think that i want one that 's gon na go out of style or go stale , excuse the pun , um in a year , so user interface : marketing : even though this is coming from us as , you know , trend watch , market research , i do n't know how much of it we necessarily wan na take away . industrial designer : marketing : also , considering that the d research b has been carried out by real reaction , i 'm a little hesitant as to like , how these questions may have been worded , and if necessarily this whole fashion to technology y edas ease of use is necessarily the right ranking . personally , like i might reverse it , but if we 're working for this company then i guess no matter what , we have to stress fashion the most . but it does n't necessarily need to be a spongy material . industrial designer : mm . user interface : industrial designer : that there 's all kinds of scope for imagination in that one though . user interface : marketing : yeah . i do n't have a lot of notes to share if you want them , industrial designer : user interface : marketing : that pretty much sums it up . so yeah . project manager : okay , do we have any s some questions for this , let 's see um . marketing : yeah , what can i possibly enlighten on ? project manager : um do you have any ideas how to possibly use these ? um how to how to use a fruit or vegetable or um or the spongy material at all ? like could we make a s like could we make a spongy remote ? it would be easier on the hands . industrial designer : if it 's latex if it 's latexy project manager : it 's kind of and then it industrial designer : um , mean project manager : we would have to find a way to protect like the chip and all that , user interface : a kind of thing that project manager : i dunno . but industrial designer : an uh i if th my understanding of a latex case is that it 's in fact hard to protect stuff inside , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but that it 's covered with the latex , which is spongier and softer on your hands . it 's there 's something to be said , i mean we we got that thing earlier from you about um not wanting it to r_ r_ repetitive stress injuries and things project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and and user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : yeah , so something , m m instead of a necess industrial designer : something grippable , i mean we do n't we do n't we do n't wan na go spongy , maybe . marketing : yeah , grip , i 'm thinking grip more than like sinking into your hands , user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : you know , i and i think i 'm envisioning more like , you know , the material that you have when you sit on like a bicycle , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so that it does n't hurt when you 're sitting down for a long time , industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : like i 'm imagining that sort of thing , i do n't know what th that material 's called . industrial designer : yeah , i think that given the list of materials i w i was forwarded it 's that seems doable . could we go in fruit and vegetable colours ? we could colour-co-ordinate them , project manager : f for sure , or maybe like marketing : project manager : um couple main ones being like , i dunno , lemons or strawberries or something . industrial designer : the buttons could be fruit-shaped . project manager : could they be smelly ? user interface : i is it supposed to be shaped like a vegetable ? uh like uh i dunno , like uh carrots or something . industrial designer : oh well marketing : oh god . project manager : i do n't know . marketing : project manager : or carrot shaped , industrial designer : it 's quite easy to s shape thing like carrot is n't it ? user interface : maybe , project manager : like large button , industrial designer : or maybe the buttons could be shaped like different fruits . user interface : or project manager : that 's what i was thinking of , yeah . marketing : what about the idea of like a round remote ? instead of like a vertical up and down one . like in terms of holding it . like that 's a f shape of a fruit . industrial designer : be user interface : kind of like a potato . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : might industrial designer : it 'd be harder to f bu uh buttons i think . project manager : would you think you you do you think you 'd be able to hold it ? marketing : just to tie it in a little . project manager : 'cause i think the reason they 're long is yeah . industrial designer : it 'd be harder to press button . project manager : harder to push . user interface : depends . when you when you use a remote , do you press the buttons with your thumb , usually ? or your fingers ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um project manager : i usually hold it in one hand . maybe industrial designer : i user interface : or maybe you want something that 's shaped like a mobile phone , so you you hold it in one hand , and you press the buttons with your thumb . project manager : but then the buttons would have to be very small . industrial designer : yeah , that 's ts how i tend to do it . project manager : do n't you think ? marketing : yeah , industrial designer : just thumb-sized . marketing : 'cause otherwise your fingers ca n't move around . project manager : but i mean in order to get to all of them , marketing : but i like i project manager : you know . user interface : yeah . project manager : they would have to be within a certain amount of space with each other . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : maybe . industrial designer : that 's true . user interface : but if you 've only got like four or five buttons anyway , then it 's it 's not so much a problem , perhaps . industrial designer : right . i when i 'm when i 'm pressing buttons on my ipod , that 's how i do it , hold it and press the four . yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you hold it in one hand and you press you press the buttons with your thumb project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , or in and use my thumb or my pointer finger on the touch scroll wheel . user interface : and and you find that works quite well ? marketing : i love the idea of the wheel like the ipod . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : is that marketing : 'cause th user interface : the button on an ipod , is it what is it , is it just four buttons or is it li more like a scroll thing ? marketing : it 's like five , project manager : it 's a scroll , yeah , it 's a wheel . industrial designer : it wel well marketing : 'cause there 's one in the middle . industrial designer : yeah , it would i mean each version of it has been a little bit different , project manager : the one i have does n't have the four on i like around it , i do n't think . industrial designer : but oh yeah , you had one of the in-between ones , when they were n't doing that anymore . ts and you press the centre button , user interface : right . industrial designer : that 's that 's your all-purpose select button right there . user interface : oh , i see , right , yeah . oh , okay . industrial designer : since it 's the one in the centre that 's not marked , yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's quite a good design . marketing : i think why it would be good for us is 'cause like you could have the same wheel sort of effect for like channel flipping and then the other one could be like for volume . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like just the idea of like those so few buttons for main things , but then how you could go back to the menu and like , i dunno if we would want it on the screen there or on the actual tv . i kind of am wanting to say on the tv , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : 'cause if you 're changing the brightness , do n't you wan na see it happening , kind of ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and then you could still have that available . industrial designer : yeah , i think an lcd screen might be good in theory , but not as useful in practice . user interface : i think it could be difficult in practice , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . also z yeah , 'cause you would be z looking down at the lcd screen , than back up at your tv industrial designer : right . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : and people do n't wan na do that . industrial designer : um project manager : okay um we have we 've about fifteen minutes left , industrial designer : oh we probably have to get going , do n't we ? project manager : so i 'm i 'm gon na continue with my pres presentation . um i 've one more slide before we close , but in that slide is when we need to make decisions about this these kinds of things , so i 'll just bring that up and show you all industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : before we move on . um industrial designer : could could we uh could we have changeable covers like for your mobile ? in different fruit and vegetable colours , marketing : if i get any more information of fruits and vegetables , i 'll let you know . user interface : like , to make it different fruits . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , it 's possible . project manager : yeah , and then like the the covers could be spongy latex industrial designer : exactly . project manager : wherea but the actual model could be titanium . industrial designer : and you could co-ordinate with your house or whatever . all these options . user interface : i think maybe th the packaging , it should be like a lemon and the the packaging is like the peel . so instead of opening the box you just kind of peel it , and the remote control 's inside . marketing : well , project manager : ah hmm hmm hmm . industrial designer : oh . user interface : do n't know . marketing : there we go . the ipod packaging is me like was so that was like half the fun . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's like the way it all comes all cute . industrial designer : mm . options . marketing : lemons ? industrial designer : user interface : project manager : okay , um marketing : project manager : components concept . energy , chip on print . industrial designer : uh-hu oh , oh yes . right , i had sort of skipped over that hoping it would n't get be necessary but um project manager : that 's th th this is the agenda they gave me . so can you just explain what that is real quick ? industrial designer : alright , so um decisions , what the okay deci decisions on energy i 'm thinking is based on the battery . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um i dunno , what do people think about this kinetic battery idea ? project manager : i think it 's awesome . i think it 's really cool . industrial designer : am i yeah . marketing : yeah , i mean , it would t totally take care of our problem of not wanting to change batteries . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , um i think it 's good , as as long as we consider the the cost and the uh how reliable it is , industrial designer : right , i have n't gotten any user interface : but as far as i know , the technology is good . marketing : costs . industrial designer : yeah , any more information on cost other than it 's more expensive than a regular battery , but um but if we 're using a an i a cheaper chip , then it 'll even out , i think . marketing : but over time industrial designer : um circuit boards . um yeah , i got a whole bunch of information on how circuit boards are produced . they 're they 're thin fibreglass with copper wires etched on to them , and di i think they 're quite easily printed on by machine , which is chip on print is where the machine prints on the wires and solders it all together for us . project manager : industrial designer : i do n't really know what to tell you as far as decisions . i was n't really given any options , i was just given that this is how they 're done . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um yeah , i ca n't ca n't really tell you . i can i can tell you a whole lot about how it works . but i do n't know any decisions on marketing : project manager : if they 're if they 're really options . industrial designer : yeah . i 'm sorry , project manager : okay . industrial designer : i did f user interface : al all circuit boards are pretty much the same , i think . uh it 's fairly fairly standard . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um okay , then we 'll move on to the case . um oh bu i guess maybe if we decided on like a simple , a regular , or an advanced chip , maybe . industrial designer : right . well okay , here 's the here 's the thing on the chips that i that i got . um simple , regular , advanced chip on print . the chip on print includes an infrared sensor , so we do n't have to worry about that . um , 'kay , the pushbutton if we 're gon na have pushbuttons , they require a simple chip , but a scroll wheel requires a regular chip , and an lcd requires advanced . do we want a scroll wheel , or do we just want pushbuttons ? user interface : um i do n't think we ne really need the scroll whe wheel . i mean it might be nice for changing the volume . project manager : it would be nice for changing the volume , industrial designer : oh . user interface : uh but project manager : but i do n't know how useful it 'd be for changing the channel . 'cause you do n't have control over numbers user interface : i do n't think it would really work . marketing : yeah , it 's a project manager : or industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yeah , you really need buttons for changing a channel . industrial designer : th it 'd be it 'd be handy for going through if there was an on-screen menu of your channel choices , than you can scroll down on the scroll . marketing : but if you c if you could scroll through the channels , and then the volume would just be user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we have five minutes left for the meeting , so . marketing : and the volume would just be like the same way , forward and backward as i 'm just thinking like it would make it much like sleeker sort of looking . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and otherwise , no matter how may buttons we have , we 're gon na have like , you know , black with red sticking out and th no it 's gon na inevitably sort of start looking like those group of sort of ugly ones that we saw stacked up . user interface : yeah . project manager : so , have a scroll for volume ? industrial designer : f or for all those secret functions ? when you get on the on-screen menu of all your functions that your remote could do for you without the buttons and you could have a scroll wheel to go through those menus . user interface : i think yeah , i think a scroll wheel would be nice , but it 's not necessary . um industrial designer : right . so we could either go with a simple or a regular chip , depending and maybe we could table that decision for later . i do n't know . project manager : i think w well i think when we go on to the une userface , we 're gon na have to decide the interface we 're gon na have to decide um whether we 're gon na have a scroll or not . industrial designer : okay . well , let 's think about that while we talk about the case . project manager : okay , let 's do case . industrial designer : uh i 'm kinda liking the idea of latex , if if spongy is the in thing . user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'm a little um i 'm a little hesitant about it , because i 'm worried about protecting the stuff on the inside . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um marketing : oh could it be hard , and then something around it ? industrial designer : uh yeah , everything i 've project manager : yeah , i would be more okay with like a titanium actual thing and then maybe like a mobile phone kind of thing . industrial designer : n oh wha what i 've what i 've seen , just not related to this , but of latex cases before , is that there 's uh like a hard plastic inside , and it 's just covered with the latex . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : not too thick a layer of latex , just enough to be grippable , like bike handles or or anything that you 've seen like that . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : the inside is hard . i do n't think we need to worry about protecting the circuit board , i think that that 's done for us . project manager : okay . user interface : 'kay . yeah . project manager : so we uh we do want latex . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . latex . um and probably in colours , maybe fruity , vegetable colours . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : fruity colours . okay um let 's go to the ufe user interface then we 'll come back to the chip i suppose . industrial designer : oh and we want a curved case , yeah ? or a double-curved ? project manager : well , we do n't really know what the difference is , right ? marketing : i 'm thinking curved of some sort . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we do n't really know what the difference project manager : um okay , interface , the type and the supplements . so push or scroll , user interface : um project manager : right ? or both ? user interface : yep . um and i think if we wan na keep our costs down , we should just go for pushbuttons , 'cause then we can have a a simple chip and it 's simpler , it 's it 's cheaper to make pushbuttons than it is a scroll button . industrial designer : good point . user interface : so in terms of uh in terms of uh economics it 's probably better to have pushbuttons . project manager : mm-hmm . and if we had a sc an on-screen um kind of thing that you could scroll through , like you can use your buttons to scroll through things . user interface : yeah , yeah , it 's uh it 's it 's fairly simple . project manager : i think that yeah . for channel surfing i think a scroll an actual like an ipod 's kind of scroll thing would be too fast , i dunno . industrial designer : yeah . i say pushbuttons at least unless we get any information but i have no idea how much more expensive a scroll wheel is than than a pushbutton , but it 's got ta be some more expensive , so i think it might be better to put our money into the stuff like the kinetic battery and the cool case user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : is that okay with you ? industrial designer : because project manager : how you feeling ? marketing : yeah . and let 's like see if we get anything else . i mean i 'm not like hard-sold on the scroll wheel , it 's more just to give it a different kind of look , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but if it 's gon na be in a latex type thing and that 's gon na look cool , then that 's probably gon na have a bigger impact than the scroll wheel . project manager : it might be cool enough . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , so we 're gon na go with um type pushbuttons , and then supplements , how are we gon na do that ? user interface : uh what do you mean by supplements , exactly ? project manager : um i assume that 's what else we 're gon na like h ha the um the additional buttons we can use . user interface : um project manager : so we 're gon na have like a menu button , so that we can access on-screen things then ? user interface : yep . yeah . project manager : okay , um so we 're doing an on-screen menu that we can scroll through . industrial designer : alright . user interface : um in industrial designer : so what are what are our buttons gon na be ? user interface : yeah . on off , industrial designer : on off user interface : uh volume , favourite channels , uh and menu . industrial designer : so like one through five , or user interface : yeah , yeah marketing : like a radio type sorta situation ? user interface : about yeah like yeah , a bit like radio presets . um project manager : pre-set channels and then we 're gon na need um numbers one through zero , right ? user interface : uh we would n't even need the numbers . i think maybe numbers seems is kind of old-fashioned . project manager : well , but in order to pre-set a cha oh i guess you can just hold it down when you get to one when you 're scrolling through . user interface : yeah , yeah , you can just and you need some kind of , i dunno , sort of up down kind of button , industrial designer : yeah , up down . user interface : but the volume control could double for that , for example . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , um finishing the meeting now . um our next meeting starts in thirty minutes , industrial designer : project manager : um you each have things to do , look and feel design , user interface design , product evaluation , and you two are going to work together on a prototype using modelling clay . you 'll get specific instructions from your personal coach . industrial designer : ooh . user interface : cool . project manager : um did we decide on a chip ? let 's go with a simple chip ? industrial designer : simple chip . project manager : okay . we are done . thank you everyone . oh i di these are already in our shared folder , so . industrial designer : okay , cool . clay . </s>
<s> summarize presentations on the conceptual specification of components , properties and materials of user interface , trend watching . </s> project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm yeah . project manager : okay . i g yeah . time is it ? marketing : fourteen twenty six . project manager : okay . lovely to see you all again . um it 's our conceptual design meeting and it 's starting at approximately fourteen twenty five and so we have forty minutes for this one again and so we 'll go just after three o'clock . um okay our agenda , we 're gon na do an opening , i 'm gon na review the minutes of the last meeting , then we 'll have your three presentations um and then we 'll have to make a decision on the remote control concepts , and finally we 'll close . so industrial designer : okay . project manager : opening . um these are our minutes from r the functional design . we decided our target group is the focus on who can afford it , because we have international appeal and we said it 's for all age groups , different um functions of it . our main objectives were simplicity and fashion . and s um in specific functions are something to keep the remote from getting lost , large buttons for the essential functions , a possibility for extra functions , like a sliding a sliding piece and a long-life battery or a charging station . okay , now three presentations . i 'd like to do it in this order , first do the conceptual specification of components , properties and materials um and then the conceptual specification of user interface and finally trend watching . industrial designer : that would be me . alright . well . project manager : mm . 'kay . function f_ eight it . there we go . industrial designer : alright . um i 'm very excited by this one actually guys i uh had a lot of fun doing it . components design . this is where you look at what does it take to make a remote control and what should we make our specific remote control out of . um . so , we need to examine each element separately , but we 're designing a full thing , so you wan na keep it integrated as a whole . the main elements of remote controls in general , and therefore ours as well , are the case , the buttons , the circuit board with the chip and the battery . these are all things that we had sort of addressed before , but i 'm gon na take each one a little bit separately here as we figure out what they should be made of and what they should look like . the case , uh the options that i 've gotten from headquarters about what we can do , um there 's there 's the shape of a case , we could do a flat sh a flat case , a curved case or maybe even a double double-curved case . i have n't seen any pictures of what this exactly looks like yet , just keep that in mind , but these are the options that we have from manufacturing and we can make our case out of plastic , the m the main base will be plastic , but we have all these sort of fashion and technological elements we can add in , wood , latex , titanium , rubber or other coloured types of plastic . that would be our case . um buttons , for buttons we have um pushbuttons , which is what real reaction uses the most often , but we also have scror scroll wheels , which can have integrated pushbuttons , or we could go all high-tech and have an l_ lcd screen . um circuit board and chip we can have a simple one , a regular one or an advanced one , depending on what our other needs are . and then battery i think is where things get most exciting . we 're talking about long-life batteries here . um we can we can have your sort of basic double a_ batteries , but we also have these options of um using a kinetic battery , like are used in high-tech watches , where you just have to move it a little bit to get it to power up . um so simple movements like pushing buttons would recharge the battery . or a solar battery , although there are slight um complications with solar batteries as in we ca n't use a latex case if we have a solar battery . or um something they only described as the type of battery you find in torches from about fifty years ago , flashlights . not quite sure what that is , but that 's the description that i received , so that 's what i 'm passing on to you . so those are our options . um personal preferences that i was thinking through here 's what we 've been talking about all through , fashion and simplicity . so if we 're going for fashion in our cases , i think that what we 're gon na wan na look at is a curved or a double-curved case , probably with a variety of design elements . maybe titanium , maybe some wood . we 're gon na have to investigate that better when i get specifics of the actual materials , but that 's sort of what i have in mind . and we wan na go for simplicity . probably pushbuttons , but i 'm sort of intrigued by the idea of a scroll scroll wheel , if anyone has anything any ideas on that ? i mean i know the ipods and things right now have touch scroll um buttons which are exactly like what they 're describing , so that might be something we wan na look into . and i 'm really intrigued by the idea of a kinetic battery . solar i do n't think would be such a good idea , because how often are you sure that your remote control will get a certain amount of light . project manager : industrial designer : but this idea of the kinetic , that you do n't have to replace , and that a simple just shaking it around will make it work , i think that that m would be a very interesting thing . but i think we 'd also wan na go for e a simple chip or regular chip to keep our costs down . uh we really only need a regular or advanced chip t if we 're gon na start using an lcd . so i think we want to be aware of not making things overly t technological if they do n't need to be , 'cause that 'll keep our manufacturing price way down . that 's what i have for options . um i 'd appreciate anyone 's input , but that 's what i 'm seeing for the future of the the look of this thing . marketing : is double-curved like would be like two hands kind of thing ? industrial designer : i 'm not sure . i have n't received any specific marketing : okay . industrial designer : visuals of this yet . marketing : 'cause i 'm imagining like double-curved is like , you know , like two sides that curve industrial designer : this is what i 'm sort of marketing : and then like one curve would just be like a single vertical-ish kind of looking thing , industrial designer : yeah . i 'm not sure , marketing : but i 've no idea . industrial designer : but i 'll let you know as soon as i get any pictures . marketing : sounds good . project manager : yeah , i wonder industrial designer : i know if we do have a double-curved case , it ca n't have any titanium in it . but the titanium , they were quite they 're marketing quite hard to us as being used in the space programme , so that could be quite interesting . user interface : industrial designer : space-age remote . project manager : mm-hmm . just an interesting marketing kind of element . industrial designer : just all things to keep in mind . yeah . that 's about all i have to do , guys . i hope i did n't go through that too quickly . project manager : uh just a real quick question um the weight of these different elements , have you industrial designer : yeah , n project manager : no idea , okay . industrial designer : no idea , no idea . um i 'm assuming that a kinetic battery is n't gon na take up that much weight , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and that a tita titanium is very light , i know , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um but other than that 's really basic , i mean , that 's all i have gotten so far . project manager : okay . industrial designer : alright ? any other questions ? user interface : uh-huh . do n't think so . industrial designer : no ? okay . project manager : mm 'kay . industrial designer : i have save this in the uh shared projects , if anyone wants to look project manager : thank you , perfect . industrial designer : and i have c considerable notes on the topic as well , if anyone needs any more information . uh marketing : thanks . project manager : um if you made notes yourself you can put those on our um underneath our oh , uh in your book , industrial designer : just in my notebook , project manager : then do n't worry about that . industrial designer : but if anyone has any specific questions , do n't hesitate to email me or something . alright ? uh i guess i can project manager : 'kay now we 're um concepts concepts of user interface . marketing : project manager : yeah , um . this one 's so much tighter than the other one . industrial designer : i know . project manager : okay . nope . there we go . here you are . user interface : jess . industrial designer : g oh , geez . user interface : alright , so i 'm gon na describe the the concept of the user interface of this des device . um we 've talked about uh the two essential properties of the user interface . we want it to be simple and we want it to be fashionable . um other we 've also got to remember that this is a device that serves as a useful purpose . uh we want people to be able to use it s as a remote control , so we need to determine what the essential functions of the d of the device are and make sure that we include that we 've included all of those and that we actually end up with a device that is going to be useful to people . we have a number of different choices for a design concept um and s that 's that 's something that that i 'll show you some examples of um , but essentially we need to choose how how is this device going to work , industrial designer : user interface : how how what kind of model is there going to be for user interaction with this device . uh once we 've chosen a a concept for it , we can then design the features around the concept , making sure that we get all the essential functions in the device and uh the extra functions and the more advanced features . and of course we also have to make it look cool . industrial designer : user interface : so basically , marketing : user interface : that 's what we do n't want . m we do n't want lots of buttons , uh complicated features . we want something that looks nice and simple . here 's a a fairly simple device . this is an an ipod from apple . um i think the main thing to notice about it is it just has four buttons . it 's very minimalistic in its design . uh you use these four buttons to m to move around a range of settings on the small lcd screen . um the thing i like about this is that it 's very very quick to access the main features . uh you can just about make out uh that the button three buttons are uh previous track , next track and play pause . they 're the main the main features of the ipod , the things you will use a all the time . um then if you want to do anything more advanced , you go into the little menu on the lcd screen and you use the buttons just to scroll around and and find the more advanced features that you want . so i think that 's that 's a good a good kind of model that we could have . um here 's a another example . this is uh it 's an interesting idea and i think i it looks pretty cool . um it 's certainly got novelty value . uh it 's nice and colourful , it 's nice and bright . uh it 's also something that you can kind of feel your way around . the buttons are are different shapes and and you can sort of yeah if you 're watching tv in the dark or whatever , you can work out which button 's which and basically , yeah it 's ith it 's fun . so i i like i like this idea of just having buttons for the features that you use most often . so you 'd need a few buttons to select your favourite channels . i mean most people , when they watch tv , they have two hundred and fifty channels on their tv and they watch of 'bout four of them at the most . so , you have buttons for your favourite channel , changing the volume , which is something you do all the time when you 're watching tv , and the button to switch it off , in case you get bored . um other features , things like adjusting the brightness , tuning the tv , uh i do n't know what else you do with a tv . um but these are these are all necessary functions . uh you ca n't have a t there 's no point having a television that you ca n't tune or that you ca n't set the contrast , so we need to find a way of including these somehow . um and one other suggestions i 'd make is to in is to include in a menu system , a bit like on the ipod . so we 'd either have a small lcd display on the device itself , or uh have a dis a menu display that comes up on your television and can b be controlled through the device . and that would allow you to access access the advanced features uh whilst keeping a very small and simple set of buttons for the features that you use most often . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so you 'd be advocating an lcd then ? user interface : i think that 's that 's one way to go , yes . industrial designer : okay . user interface : um i mean there are there are advantages and disadvantages if you if you have an lcd display , it 's it 's nice , because it 's it it lets you just sort of sit there and st and control your television from your armchair . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : there are disadvantages , an an lcd display would have to be quite small , 'cause we 're we 're i well we 're i assume we 're gon na be making quite a small device . um it would also have to have uh a kind of backlighting in it , 'cause you ten you tend to watch tv in the dark , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . user interface : but you need to be able to see your l_d_d_ lcd display . the alternative is to have a an on-screen display on your television that you control through your remote control . uh a bit like a bit like how they have these um digital boxes where you you press the buttons and it comes up with your this thing of watch lo what 's on each channel . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay . user interface : i mean that that 's also a good idea . it 's it can it does have it 's problems as well , if you 've got a small tv and you 're sitting on the other side of a room , it 's hard to read the little text that comes up . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : uh but that 's a that 's a design decision that we can make . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : i do think that um one of the important features for a remote is seeing a menu and seeing what 's on . marketing : project manager : um and so user interface : yeah . project manager : like favourite channels is is applicable , but i think th that you do need to have some kind of function where it 's um you have t you can see the title of the show or possibly a description of it . industrial designer : well are you are you tak project manager : like i i know i use that often enough . user interface : yeah . marketing : wait , but is that separate from what he was saying ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : if it if it was a l_ lcd on th on the remote , i do n't know that you could f that you 'd be able to see a industrial designer : no , i think i think we 're talking menu like contrast and tuning the v_c_r_ or something if i 've understood you correctly , rather than menu as what 's on . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah , that that would be one of the features , yes . project manager : okay . 'cause that would be more specifically a digital box , user interface : but it 's it 's it 's something to bear in mind is that if we put a display on the remote control the c uh communication is one way , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you ca n't have the televisions and information back to the remote control , at least i do n't think you can . industrial designer : oh , good point . user interface : um i 'm not sure . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , now we 're moving on to market . marketing . marketing : should i plug that in ? project manager : marketing : user interface : is that going on ? okay . marketing : maybe it 's just not user interface : uh that should be alright , actually . marketing : is it on ? ri what f_ do you have to press , project manager : eight . marketing : five ? i just keep pressing lots of 'em . well , i do n't know how relevant all of this gon na be . if anything , the that they gave me . project manager : oops , it 's not plugged in , quite in well enough . industrial designer : no signal . marketing : alright . project manager : there we are . industrial designer : oop , there we go . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : oh yeah . okay , so we 're gon na look a little bit at trend watching . basically , i was given um an executive summary that was a market investigation on remote controls that was recently conducted , and then also some fashion watchers in paris and milan commented on some things that are gon na be going on this year . project manager : marketing : so first um they had people they ranked um the important aspects of r remote controls , and right now i d they 're saying that currently there 's a functional look and feel preference , but that really , over the next year it it that 's gon na be switching to fancy look and feel remotes , so that just goes back to the whole desire of our c real reaction company wanting to focus on fashion and so , even though we 're stressing , when we 're talking , we 've all been talking about this like simplicity and easy to use idea , they 're sort of wanting us to remember that the number one thing for everyone is that it 's fancy look and feel . and as these are ranked , the top one is doubly important to the second one , which is doubly important to the third one , industrial designer : okay . marketing : so just to take that weight into account . the second thing that was mentioned as important was the technological innovations . that would be like if we use something like the space material or the lcd screen , things like that . and then ease of use was the third most important , whi so really , no matter what , we need to focus the most on fancy look and feel , according to this . i do n't know how much we agree with that . and then the fashion watch talks about that this year 's top trend for clothes , industrial designer : user interface : marketing : shoes and furniture is fruits and vegetables and tha that there 's a preference for spongy , tight material . user interface : project manager : s sweet . marketing : and so that brings us to my personal preferences . who wants a spongy remote or one with fruit and vegetable padding . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : personally , i do n't really think that i want one that 's gon na go out of style or go stale , excuse the pun , um in a year , so user interface : marketing : even though this is coming from us as , you know , trend watch , market research , i do n't know how much of it we necessarily wan na take away . industrial designer : marketing : also , considering that the d research b has been carried out by real reaction , i 'm a little hesitant as to like , how these questions may have been worded , and if necessarily this whole fashion to technology y edas ease of use is necessarily the right ranking . personally , like i might reverse it , but if we 're working for this company then i guess no matter what , we have to stress fashion the most . but it does n't necessarily need to be a spongy material . industrial designer : mm . user interface : industrial designer : that there 's all kinds of scope for imagination in that one though . user interface : marketing : yeah . i do n't have a lot of notes to share if you want them , industrial designer : user interface : marketing : that pretty much sums it up . so yeah . project manager : okay , do we have any s some questions for this , let 's see um . marketing : yeah , what can i possibly enlighten on ? project manager : um do you have any ideas how to possibly use these ? um how to how to use a fruit or vegetable or um or the spongy material at all ? like could we make a s like could we make a spongy remote ? it would be easier on the hands . industrial designer : if it 's latex if it 's latexy project manager : it 's kind of and then it industrial designer : um , mean project manager : we would have to find a way to protect like the chip and all that , user interface : a kind of thing that project manager : i dunno . but industrial designer : an uh i if th my understanding of a latex case is that it 's in fact hard to protect stuff inside , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but that it 's covered with the latex , which is spongier and softer on your hands . it 's there 's something to be said , i mean we we got that thing earlier from you about um not wanting it to r_ r_ repetitive stress injuries and things project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and and user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : yeah , so something , m m instead of a necess industrial designer : something grippable , i mean we do n't we do n't we do n't wan na go spongy , maybe . marketing : yeah , grip , i 'm thinking grip more than like sinking into your hands , user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : you know , i and i think i 'm envisioning more like , you know , the material that you have when you sit on like a bicycle , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so that it does n't hurt when you 're sitting down for a long time , industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : like i 'm imagining that sort of thing , i do n't know what th that material 's called . industrial designer : yeah , i think that given the list of materials i w i was forwarded it 's that seems doable . could we go in fruit and vegetable colours ? we could colour-co-ordinate them , project manager : f for sure , or maybe like marketing : project manager : um couple main ones being like , i dunno , lemons or strawberries or something . industrial designer : the buttons could be fruit-shaped . project manager : could they be smelly ? user interface : i is it supposed to be shaped like a vegetable ? uh like uh i dunno , like uh carrots or something . industrial designer : oh well marketing : oh god . project manager : i do n't know . marketing : project manager : or carrot shaped , industrial designer : it 's quite easy to s shape thing like carrot is n't it ? user interface : maybe , project manager : like large button , industrial designer : or maybe the buttons could be shaped like different fruits . user interface : or project manager : that 's what i was thinking of , yeah . marketing : what about the idea of like a round remote ? instead of like a vertical up and down one . like in terms of holding it . like that 's a f shape of a fruit . industrial designer : be user interface : kind of like a potato . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : might industrial designer : it 'd be harder to f bu uh buttons i think . project manager : would you think you you do you think you 'd be able to hold it ? marketing : just to tie it in a little . project manager : 'cause i think the reason they 're long is yeah . industrial designer : it 'd be harder to press button . project manager : harder to push . user interface : depends . when you when you use a remote , do you press the buttons with your thumb , usually ? or your fingers ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um project manager : i usually hold it in one hand . maybe industrial designer : i user interface : or maybe you want something that 's shaped like a mobile phone , so you you hold it in one hand , and you press the buttons with your thumb . project manager : but then the buttons would have to be very small . industrial designer : yeah , that 's ts how i tend to do it . project manager : do n't you think ? marketing : yeah , industrial designer : just thumb-sized . marketing : 'cause otherwise your fingers ca n't move around . project manager : but i mean in order to get to all of them , marketing : but i like i project manager : you know . user interface : yeah . project manager : they would have to be within a certain amount of space with each other . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : maybe . industrial designer : that 's true . user interface : but if you 've only got like four or five buttons anyway , then it 's it 's not so much a problem , perhaps . industrial designer : right . i when i 'm when i 'm pressing buttons on my ipod , that 's how i do it , hold it and press the four . yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you hold it in one hand and you press you press the buttons with your thumb project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , or in and use my thumb or my pointer finger on the touch scroll wheel . user interface : and and you find that works quite well ? marketing : i love the idea of the wheel like the ipod . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : is that marketing : 'cause th user interface : the button on an ipod , is it what is it , is it just four buttons or is it li more like a scroll thing ? marketing : it 's like five , project manager : it 's a scroll , yeah , it 's a wheel . industrial designer : it wel well marketing : 'cause there 's one in the middle . industrial designer : yeah , it would i mean each version of it has been a little bit different , project manager : the one i have does n't have the four on i like around it , i do n't think . industrial designer : but oh yeah , you had one of the in-between ones , when they were n't doing that anymore . ts and you press the centre button , user interface : right . industrial designer : that 's that 's your all-purpose select button right there . user interface : oh , i see , right , yeah . oh , okay . industrial designer : since it 's the one in the centre that 's not marked , yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's quite a good design . marketing : i think why it would be good for us is 'cause like you could have the same wheel sort of effect for like channel flipping and then the other one could be like for volume . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like just the idea of like those so few buttons for main things , but then how you could go back to the menu and like , i dunno if we would want it on the screen there or on the actual tv . i kind of am wanting to say on the tv , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : 'cause if you 're changing the brightness , do n't you wan na see it happening , kind of ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and then you could still have that available . industrial designer : yeah , i think an lcd screen might be good in theory , but not as useful in practice . user interface : i think it could be difficult in practice , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . also z yeah , 'cause you would be z looking down at the lcd screen , than back up at your tv industrial designer : right . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : and people do n't wan na do that . </s>
<s> what did the group think of the possibility to use spongy material when presenting the trend watching ? </s> project manager : um do you have any ideas how to possibly use these ? um how to how to use a fruit or vegetable or um or the spongy material at all ? like could we make a s like could we make a spongy remote ? it would be easier on the hands . industrial designer : if it 's latex if it 's latexy project manager : it 's kind of and then it industrial designer : um , mean project manager : we would have to find a way to protect like the chip and all that , user interface : a kind of thing that project manager : i dunno . but industrial designer : an uh i if th my understanding of a latex case is that it 's in fact hard to protect stuff inside , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but that it 's covered with the latex , which is spongier and softer on your hands . it 's there 's something to be said , i mean we we got that thing earlier from you about um not wanting it to r_ r_ repetitive stress injuries and things project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and and user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : yeah , so something , m m instead of a necess industrial designer : something grippable , i mean we do n't we do n't we do n't wan na go spongy , maybe . marketing : yeah , grip , i 'm thinking grip more than like sinking into your hands , user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : you know , i and i think i 'm envisioning more like , you know , the material that you have when you sit on like a bicycle , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so that it does n't hurt when you 're sitting down for a long time , industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : like i 'm imagining that sort of thing , i do n't know what th that material 's called . </s>
<s> why did user interface think the lcd screen was not useful in practice when discussing the scroll wheels ? </s> user interface : but if you 've only got like four or five buttons anyway , then it 's it 's not so much a problem , perhaps . industrial designer : right . i when i 'm when i 'm pressing buttons on my ipod , that 's how i do it , hold it and press the four . yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you hold it in one hand and you press you press the buttons with your thumb project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , or in and use my thumb or my pointer finger on the touch scroll wheel . user interface : and and you find that works quite well ? marketing : i love the idea of the wheel like the ipod . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : is that marketing : 'cause th user interface : the button on an ipod , is it what is it , is it just four buttons or is it li more like a scroll thing ? marketing : it 's like five , project manager : it 's a scroll , yeah , it 's a wheel . industrial designer : it wel well marketing : 'cause there 's one in the middle . industrial designer : yeah , it would i mean each version of it has been a little bit different , project manager : the one i have does n't have the four on i like around it , i do n't think . industrial designer : but oh yeah , you had one of the in-between ones , when they were n't doing that anymore . ts and you press the centre button , user interface : right . industrial designer : that 's that 's your all-purpose select button right there . user interface : oh , i see , right , yeah . oh , okay . industrial designer : since it 's the one in the centre that 's not marked , yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's quite a good design . marketing : i think why it would be good for us is 'cause like you could have the same wheel sort of effect for like channel flipping and then the other one could be like for volume . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like just the idea of like those so few buttons for main things , but then how you could go back to the menu and like , i dunno if we would want it on the screen there or on the actual tv . i kind of am wanting to say on the tv , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : 'cause if you 're changing the brightness , do n't you wan na see it happening , kind of ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and then you could still have that available . industrial designer : yeah , i think an lcd screen might be good in theory , but not as useful in practice . user interface : i think it could be difficult in practice , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . also z yeah , 'cause you would be z looking down at the lcd screen , than back up at your tv industrial designer : right . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : and people do n't wan na do that . </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about remote control concept decisions . </s> project manager : okay um we have we 've about fifteen minutes left , industrial designer : oh we probably have to get going , do n't we ? project manager : so i 'm i 'm gon na continue with my pres presentation . um i 've one more slide before we close , but in that slide is when we need to make decisions about this these kinds of things , so i 'll just bring that up and show you all industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : before we move on . um industrial designer : could could we uh could we have changeable covers like for your mobile ? in different fruit and vegetable colours , marketing : if i get any more information of fruits and vegetables , i 'll let you know . user interface : like , to make it different fruits . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , it 's possible . project manager : yeah , and then like the the covers could be spongy latex industrial designer : exactly . project manager : wherea but the actual model could be titanium . industrial designer : and you could co-ordinate with your house or whatever . all these options . user interface : i think maybe th the packaging , it should be like a lemon and the the packaging is like the peel . so instead of opening the box you just kind of peel it , and the remote control 's inside . marketing : well , project manager : ah hmm hmm hmm . industrial designer : oh . user interface : do n't know . marketing : there we go . the ipod packaging is me like was so that was like half the fun . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's like the way it all comes all cute . industrial designer : mm . options . marketing : lemons ? industrial designer : user interface : project manager : okay , um marketing : project manager : components concept . energy , chip on print . industrial designer : uh-hu oh , oh yes . right , i had sort of skipped over that hoping it would n't get be necessary but um project manager : that 's th th this is the agenda they gave me . so can you just explain what that is real quick ? industrial designer : alright , so um decisions , what the okay deci decisions on energy i 'm thinking is based on the battery . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um i dunno , what do people think about this kinetic battery idea ? project manager : i think it 's awesome . i think it 's really cool . industrial designer : am i yeah . marketing : yeah , i mean , it would t totally take care of our problem of not wanting to change batteries . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , um i think it 's good , as as long as we consider the the cost and the uh how reliable it is , industrial designer : right , i have n't gotten any user interface : but as far as i know , the technology is good . marketing : costs . industrial designer : yeah , any more information on cost other than it 's more expensive than a regular battery , but um but if we 're using a an i a cheaper chip , then it 'll even out , i think . marketing : but over time industrial designer : um circuit boards . um yeah , i got a whole bunch of information on how circuit boards are produced . they 're they 're thin fibreglass with copper wires etched on to them , and di i think they 're quite easily printed on by machine , which is chip on print is where the machine prints on the wires and solders it all together for us . project manager : industrial designer : i do n't really know what to tell you as far as decisions . i was n't really given any options , i was just given that this is how they 're done . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um yeah , i ca n't ca n't really tell you . i can i can tell you a whole lot about how it works . but i do n't know any decisions on marketing : project manager : if they 're if they 're really options . industrial designer : yeah . i 'm sorry , project manager : okay . industrial designer : i did f user interface : al all circuit boards are pretty much the same , i think . uh it 's fairly fairly standard . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um okay , then we 'll move on to the case . um oh bu i guess maybe if we decided on like a simple , a regular , or an advanced chip , maybe . industrial designer : right . well okay , here 's the here 's the thing on the chips that i that i got . um simple , regular , advanced chip on print . the chip on print includes an infrared sensor , so we do n't have to worry about that . um , 'kay , the pushbutton if we 're gon na have pushbuttons , they require a simple chip , but a scroll wheel requires a regular chip , and an lcd requires advanced . do we want a scroll wheel , or do we just want pushbuttons ? user interface : um i do n't think we ne really need the scroll whe wheel . i mean it might be nice for changing the volume . project manager : it would be nice for changing the volume , industrial designer : oh . user interface : uh but project manager : but i do n't know how useful it 'd be for changing the channel . 'cause you do n't have control over numbers user interface : i do n't think it would really work . marketing : yeah , it 's a project manager : or industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yeah , you really need buttons for changing a channel . industrial designer : th it 'd be it 'd be handy for going through if there was an on-screen menu of your channel choices , than you can scroll down on the scroll . marketing : but if you c if you could scroll through the channels , and then the volume would just be user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we have five minutes left for the meeting , so . marketing : and the volume would just be like the same way , forward and backward as i 'm just thinking like it would make it much like sleeker sort of looking . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and otherwise , no matter how may buttons we have , we 're gon na have like , you know , black with red sticking out and th no it 's gon na inevitably sort of start looking like those group of sort of ugly ones that we saw stacked up . user interface : yeah . project manager : so , have a scroll for volume ? industrial designer : f or for all those secret functions ? when you get on the on-screen menu of all your functions that your remote could do for you without the buttons and you could have a scroll wheel to go through those menus . user interface : i think yeah , i think a scroll wheel would be nice , but it 's not necessary . um industrial designer : right . so we could either go with a simple or a regular chip , depending and maybe we could table that decision for later . i do n't know . project manager : i think w well i think when we go on to the une userface , we 're gon na have to decide the interface we 're gon na have to decide um whether we 're gon na have a scroll or not . industrial designer : okay . well , let 's think about that while we talk about the case . project manager : okay , let 's do case . industrial designer : uh i 'm kinda liking the idea of latex , if if spongy is the in thing . user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'm a little um i 'm a little hesitant about it , because i 'm worried about protecting the stuff on the inside . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um marketing : oh could it be hard , and then something around it ? industrial designer : uh yeah , everything i 've project manager : yeah , i would be more okay with like a titanium actual thing and then maybe like a mobile phone kind of thing . industrial designer : n oh wha what i 've what i 've seen , just not related to this , but of latex cases before , is that there 's uh like a hard plastic inside , and it 's just covered with the latex . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : not too thick a layer of latex , just enough to be grippable , like bike handles or or anything that you 've seen like that . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : the inside is hard . i do n't think we need to worry about protecting the circuit board , i think that that 's done for us . project manager : okay . user interface : 'kay . yeah . project manager : so we uh we do want latex . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . latex . um and probably in colours , maybe fruity , vegetable colours . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : fruity colours . okay um let 's go to the ufe user interface then we 'll come back to the chip i suppose . industrial designer : oh and we want a curved case , yeah ? or a double-curved ? project manager : well , we do n't really know what the difference is , right ? marketing : i 'm thinking curved of some sort . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we do n't really know what the difference project manager : um okay , interface , the type and the supplements . so push or scroll , user interface : um project manager : right ? or both ? user interface : yep . um and i think if we wan na keep our costs down , we should just go for pushbuttons , 'cause then we can have a a simple chip and it 's simpler , it 's it 's cheaper to make pushbuttons than it is a scroll button . industrial designer : good point . user interface : so in terms of uh in terms of uh economics it 's probably better to have pushbuttons . project manager : mm-hmm . and if we had a sc an on-screen um kind of thing that you could scroll through , like you can use your buttons to scroll through things . user interface : yeah , yeah , it 's uh it 's it 's fairly simple . project manager : i think that yeah . for channel surfing i think a scroll an actual like an ipod 's kind of scroll thing would be too fast , i dunno . industrial designer : yeah . i say pushbuttons at least unless we get any information but i have no idea how much more expensive a scroll wheel is than than a pushbutton , but it 's got ta be some more expensive , so i think it might be better to put our money into the stuff like the kinetic battery and the cool case user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : is that okay with you ? industrial designer : because project manager : how you feeling ? marketing : yeah . and let 's like see if we get anything else . i mean i 'm not like hard-sold on the scroll wheel , it 's more just to give it a different kind of look , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but if it 's gon na be in a latex type thing and that 's gon na look cool , then that 's probably gon na have a bigger impact than the scroll wheel . project manager : it might be cool enough . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , so we 're gon na go with um type pushbuttons , and then supplements , how are we gon na do that ? user interface : uh what do you mean by supplements , exactly ? project manager : um i assume that 's what else we 're gon na like h ha the um the additional buttons we can use . user interface : um project manager : so we 're gon na have like a menu button , so that we can access on-screen things then ? user interface : yep . yeah . project manager : okay , um so we 're doing an on-screen menu that we can scroll through . industrial designer : alright . user interface : um in industrial designer : so what are what are our buttons gon na be ? user interface : yeah . on off , industrial designer : on off user interface : uh volume , favourite channels , uh and menu . industrial designer : so like one through five , or user interface : yeah , yeah marketing : like a radio type sorta situation ? user interface : about yeah like yeah , a bit like radio presets . um project manager : pre-set channels and then we 're gon na need um numbers one through zero , right ? user interface : uh we would n't even need the numbers . i think maybe numbers seems is kind of old-fashioned . project manager : well , but in order to pre-set a cha oh i guess you can just hold it down when you get to one when you 're scrolling through . user interface : yeah , yeah , you can just and you need some kind of , i dunno , sort of up down kind of button , industrial designer : yeah , up down . user interface : but the volume control could double for that , for example . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , um finishing the meeting now . um our next meeting starts in thirty minutes , industrial designer : project manager : um you each have things to do , look and feel design , user interface design , product evaluation , and you two are going to work together on a prototype using modelling clay . you 'll get specific instructions from your personal coach . industrial designer : ooh . user interface : cool . project manager : um did we decide on a chip ? let 's go with a simple chip ? industrial designer : simple chip . project manager : okay . we are done . thank you everyone . oh i di these are already in our shared folder , so . industrial designer : okay , cool . clay . </s>
<s> what did the group think of the kinetic battery idea when discussing remote control concept decisions ? </s> project manager : components concept . energy , chip on print . industrial designer : uh-hu oh , oh yes . right , i had sort of skipped over that hoping it would n't get be necessary but um project manager : that 's th th this is the agenda they gave me . so can you just explain what that is real quick ? industrial designer : alright , so um decisions , what the okay deci decisions on energy i 'm thinking is based on the battery . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um i dunno , what do people think about this kinetic battery idea ? project manager : i think it 's awesome . i think it 's really cool . industrial designer : am i yeah . marketing : yeah , i mean , it would t totally take care of our problem of not wanting to change batteries . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , um i think it 's good , as as long as we consider the the cost and the uh how reliable it is , industrial designer : right , i have n't gotten any user interface : but as far as i know , the technology is good . marketing : costs . </s>
<s> why did user interface think the scroll wheel was not necessary when discussing remote control concept decisions ? </s> user interface : um i do n't think we ne really need the scroll whe wheel . i mean it might be nice for changing the volume . project manager : it would be nice for changing the volume , industrial designer : oh . user interface : uh but project manager : but i do n't know how useful it 'd be for changing the channel . 'cause you do n't have control over numbers user interface : i do n't think it would really work . marketing : yeah , it 's a project manager : or industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yeah , you really need buttons for changing a channel . industrial designer : th it 'd be it 'd be handy for going through if there was an on-screen menu of your channel choices , than you can scroll down on the scroll . marketing : but if you c if you could scroll through the channels , and then the volume would just be user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we have five minutes left for the meeting , so . marketing : and the volume would just be like the same way , forward and backward as i 'm just thinking like it would make it much like sleeker sort of looking . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and otherwise , no matter how may buttons we have , we 're gon na have like , you know , black with red sticking out and th no it 's gon na inevitably sort of start looking like those group of sort of ugly ones that we saw stacked up . user interface : yeah . project manager : so , have a scroll for volume ? industrial designer : f or for all those secret functions ? when you get on the on-screen menu of all your functions that your remote could do for you without the buttons and you could have a scroll wheel to go through those menus . user interface : i think yeah , i think a scroll wheel would be nice , but it 's not necessary . um industrial designer : right . so we could either go with a simple or a regular chip , depending and maybe we could table that decision for later . i do n't know . project manager : i think w well i think when we go on to the une userface , we 're gon na have to decide the interface we 're gon na have to decide um whether we 're gon na have a scroll or not . </s>
<s> what ’ s the summary of the meeting ? </s> grad b : so i guess this is more or less now just to get you up to date , johno . this is what , uh , grad c : this is a meeting for me . grad b : um , eva , bhaskara , and i did . grad d : did you add more stuff to it ? later ? grad b : um . why ? grad d : um . i do n't know . there were , like , the you know , @ @ and all that stuff . but . i thought you you said you were adding stuff grad b : uh , no . grad d : but i do n't know . grad b : this is um , ha ! very nice . um , so we thought that , we can write up uh , an element , and for each of the situation nodes that we observed in the bayes - net ? so . what 's the situation like at the entity that is mentioned ? if we know anything about it ? is it under construction ? or is it on fire or something happening to it ? or is it stable ? and so forth , going all the way um , f through parking , location , hotel , car , restroom , @ @ { comment } riots , fairs , strikes , or disasters . grad c : so is this is a situation are is all the things which can be happening right now ? or , what is the situation type ? grad b : that 's basically just specifying the the input for the w what 's grad c : oh , i see y why are you specifying it in xml ? grad b : um . just because it forces us to be specific about the values here ? and , also , i mean , this is a what the input is going to be . right ? so , we will , uh this is a schema . this is grad c : well , yeah . i just do n't know if this is th l what the does this is what java bayes takes ? as a bayes - net spec ? grad b : no , because i mean if we i mean we 're sure gon na interface to we 're gon na get an xml document from somewhere . right ? and that xml document will say `` we are able to we were able to observe that w the element , um , @ @ { comment } of the location that the car is near . `` so that 's gon na be { comment } um . grad c : so this is the situational context , everything in it . is that what situation is short for , shi situational context ? grad b : so this is just , again , a an xml schemata which defines a set of possible , uh , permissible xml structures , which we view as input into the bayes - net . right ? grad c : and then we can r uh possibly run one of them uh transformations ? that put it into the format that the bayes n or java bayes or whatever wants ? grad b : yea - are you talking are you talking about the the structure ? grad c : well it grad b : i mean when you observe a node . grad c : when you when you say the input to the v java bayes , { comment } it takes a certain format , grad b : um - hmm . grad c : right ? which i do n't think is this . although i do n't know . grad b : no , it 's certainly not this . nuh . grad c : so you could just could n't you just run a grad b : xsl . { comment } yeah . grad c : yeah . to convert it into the java bayes for format ? grad b : that 's that 's no problem , but i even think that , um i mean , once once you have this sort of as running as a module right ? what you want is you wan na say , `` ok , give me the posterior probabilities of the go - there node , when this is happening . `` right ? when the person said this , the car is there , it 's raining , and this is happening . and with this you can specify the what 's happening in the situation , and what 's happening with the user . so we get after we are done , through the situation we get the user vector . so , this is a grad c : so this is just a specification of all the possible inputs ? grad b : yep . and , all the possible outputs , too . so , we have , um , for example , the , uh , go - there decision node which has two elements , going - there and its posterior probability , and not - going - there and its posterior probability , because the output is always gon na be all the decision nodes and all the the a all the posterior probabilities for all the values . grad c : and then we would just look at the , eh , struct that we wan na look at in terms of if if we 're only asking about one of the so like , if i 'm just interested in the going - there node , i would just pull that information out of the struct that gets return that would that java bayes would output ? grad b : um , pretty much , yes , but i think it 's a little bit more complex . as , if i understand it correctly , it always gives you all the posterior probabilities for all the values of all decision nodes . so , when we input something , we always get the , uh , posterior probabilities for all of these . right ? so there is no way of telling it t not to tell us about the eva values . grad c : yeah , wait i agree , that 's yeah , use oh , uh yeah , ok . grad b : so so we get this whole list of of , um , things , and the question is what to do with it , what to hand on , how to interpret it , in a sense . so y you said if you `` i 'm only interested in whether he wants to go there or not `` , then i just look at that node , look which one grad c : look at that struct in the output , right ? grad b : look at that struct in the the output , even though i would n't call it a `` struct `` . but . grad c : well i well , it 's an xml structure that 's being res returned , grad b : oh . mm - hmm . grad c : right ? grad b : so every part of a structure is a `` struct `` . yeah . grad c : yeah , i just uh i just was abbreviated it to struct in my head , and started going with that . grad b : that element or object , i would say . grad c : not a c struct . that 's not what i was trying to k grad b : yeah . grad c : though yeah . grad b : ok . and , um , the reason is why i think it 's a little bit more complex or why why we can even think about it as an interesting problem in and of itself is um . so . the , uh let 's look at an example . grad c : well , w would n't we just take the structure that 's outputted and then run another transformation on it , that would just dump the one that we wanted out ? grad b : yeah . w we 'd need to prune . right ? throw things away . grad c : well , actually , you do n't even need to do that with xml . d ca n't you just look at one specific grad b : yeah , exactly . the @ @ { comment } xerxes allows you to say , u `` just give me the value of that , and that , and that . `` but , we do n't really know what we 're interested in before we look at the complete at at the overall result . so the person said , um , `` where is x ? `` and so , we want to know , um , is does he want info ? o on this ? or know the location ? or does he want to go there ? let 's assume this is our our question . grad c : sure . grad b : nuh ? so . um . do this in perl . so we get ok . let 's assume this is the output . so . we should con be able to conclude from that that i mean . it 's always gon na give us a value of how likely we think i it is that he wants to go there and does n't want to go there , or how likely it is that he wants to get information . but , maybe w we should just reverse this to make it a little bit more delicate . so , does he wan na know where it is ? or does he wan na go there ? grad c : he wants to know where it is . grad b : right . i i i tend to agree . and if it 's if grad c : well now , y i mean , you could grad b : and i if there 's sort of a clear winner here , and , um and this is pretty , uh indifferent , then we then we might conclude that he actually wants to just know where , uh t uh , he does want to go there . grad c : uh , out of curiosity , is there a reason why we would n't combine these three nodes ? into one smaller subnet ? that would just basically be the question for we have `` where is x ? `` is the question , right ? that would just be info - on or location ? based upon grad b : or go - there . a lot of people ask that , if they actually just wan na go there . people come up to you on campus and say , `` where 's the library ? `` you 're gon na say y you 're gon na say , g `` go down that way . `` you 're not gon na say `` it 's it 's five hundred yards away from you `` or `` it 's north of you `` , or `` it 's located `` grad c : well , i mean but the there 's so you just have three decisions for the final node , that would link thes these three nodes in the net together . grad b : um . i do n't know whether i understand what you mean . but . again , in this given this input , we , also in some situations , may wan na postulate an opinion whether that person wants to go there now the nicest way , use a cab , or so s wants to know it wants to know where it is because he wants something fixed there , because he wants to visit t it or whatever . so , it n i mean a all i 'm saying is , whatever our input is , we 're always gon na get the full output . and some some things will always be sort of too not significant enough . grad c : wha or i or i it 'll be tight . you wo n't it 'll be hard to decide . but i mean , i guess i guess the thing is , uh , this is another , smaller , case of reasoning in the case of an uncertainty , which makes me think bayes - net should be the way to solve these things . so if you had if for every construction , right ? you could say , `` well , there here 's the where - is construction . `` and for the where - is construction , we know we need to l look at this node , that merges these three things together grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : as for th to decide the response . and since we have a finite number of constructions that we can deal with , we could have a finite number of nodes . grad b : ok . mm - hmm . grad c : say , if we had to y deal with arbitrary language , it would n't make any sense to do that , because there 'd be no way to generate the nodes for every possible sentence . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : but since we can only deal with a finite amount of stuff grad b : so , basically , the idea is to f to feed the output of that belief - net into another belief - net . grad c : yeah , so basically take these three things and then put them into another belief - net . grad b : but , why why why only those three ? why not the whol grad c : well , i mean , d for the where - is question . so we 'd have a node for the where - is question . grad b : yeah . but we believe that all the decision nodes are can be relevant for the where - is , and the where how - do - i - get - to or the tell - me - something - about . grad c : you can come in if you want . grad b : yes , it is allowed . grad c : as long as y you 're not wearing your h your h headphones . well , i do i see , i do n't know if this is a good idea or not . i 'm just throwing it out . but uh , it seems like we could have i mea or uh we could put all of the all of the r information that could also be relevant into the where - is node answer grad b : mm - hmm . yep . grad c : node thing stuff . and uh grad b : i mean let 's not forget we 're gon na get some very strong input from these sub dis from these discourse things , right ? so . `` tell me the location of x . `` nuh ? or `` where is x located at ? `` grad c : yeah , i know , but the bayes - net would be able to the weights on the on the nodes in the bayes - net would be able to do all that , grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : would n't it ? here 's a k oh ! oh , i 'll wait until you 're plugged in . oh , do n't sit there . sit here . you know how you do n't like that one . it 's ok . that 's the weird one . that 's the one that 's painful . that hurts . it hurts so bad . i 'm h i 'm happy that they 're recording that . that headphone . the headphone that you have to put on backwards , with the little little thing and the little little foam block on it ? it 's a painful , painful microphone . grad b : i think it 's th called `` the crown `` . grad c : the crown ? grad d : what ? grad b : yeah , versus `` the sony `` . grad a : the crown ? is that the actual name ? ok . grad b : mm - hmm . the manufacturer . grad c : i do n't see a manufacturer on it . oh , wait , here it is . h this thingy . yeah , it 's `` the crown `` . the crown of pain ! grad b : you 're on - line ? grad c : are you are your mike o is your mike on ? grad a : indeed . grad c : ok . so you 've been working with these guys ? you know what 's going on ? grad a : yes , i have . and , i do . yeah , alright . s so where are we ? grad c : excellent ! grad b : we 're discussing this . grad a : i do n't think it can handle french , but anyway . grad b : so . assume we have something coming in . a person says , `` where is x ? `` , and we get a certain we have a situation vector and a user vector and everything is fine ? an - an and and our and our grad c : did you just sti did you just stick the m the the the microphone actually in the tea ? grad b : and , um , grad a : i 'm not drinking tea . what are you talking about ? grad c : oh , yeah . sorry . grad b : let 's just assume our bayes - net just has three decision nodes for the time being . these three , he wants to know something about it , he wants to know where it is , he wants to go there . grad c : in terms of , these would be wha how we would answer the question where - is , right ? we u this is i that 's what you s it seemed like , explained it to me earlier grad b : yeah , but , mmm . grad c : w we we 're we wan na know how to answer the question `` where is x ? `` grad b : yeah . no , i can i can do the timing node in here , too , and say `` ok . `` grad c : well , yeah , but in the s uh , let 's just deal with the s the simple case of we 're not worrying about timing or anything . we just want to know how we should answer `` where is x ? `` grad b : ok . and , um , ok , and , go - there has two values , right ? , go - there and not - go - there . let 's assume those are the posterior probabilities of that . grad a : mm - hmm . grad b : info - on has true or false and location . so , he wants to know something about it , and he wants to know something he wants to know where - it - is , grad a : excuse me . grad b : has these values . and , um , grad c : oh , i see why we ca n't do that . grad b : and , um , in this case we would probably all agree that he wants to go there . our belief - net thinks he wants to go there , grad a : yeah . grad b : right ? grad a : mm - hmm . grad b : in the , uh , whatever , if we have something like this here , and this like that and maybe here also some grad a : you should probably { comment } make them out of yeah . grad b : something like that , grad c : well , it grad b : then we would guess , `` aha ! he , our belief - net , { comment } has s stronger beliefs that he wants to know where it is , than actually wants to go there . `` right ? grad c : that it does n't this assume , though , that they 're evenly weighted ? grad d : true . grad c : like i guess they are evenly weighted . grad a : the different decision nodes , you mean ? grad c : yeah , the go - there , the info - on , and the location ? grad a : well , d yeah , this is making the assumption . yes . grad c : like grad b : what do you mean by `` differently weighted `` ? they do n't feed into anything really anymore . grad a : but i mean , why do we grad c : or i jus grad a : if we trusted the go - there node more th much more than we trusted the other ones , then we would conclude , even in this situation , that he wanted to go there . so , in that sense , we weight them equally right now . grad b : ok . makes sense . yeah . but grad c : so the but i guess the k the question that i was as er wondering or maybe robert was proposing to me is how do we d make the decision on as to which one to listen to ? grad a : yeah , so , the final d decision is the combination of these three . so again , it 's it 's some kind of , uh grad c : bayes - net . grad a : yeah , sure . grad c : ok so , then , the question i so then my question is t to you then , would be so is the only r reason we can make all these smaller bayes - nets , because we know we can only deal with a finite set of constructions ? cuz oth if we 're just taking arbitrary language in , we could n't have a node for every possible question , you know ? grad a : a decision node for every possible question , you mean ? grad c : well , i like , in the case of yeah . in the ca any piece of language , we would n't be able to answer it with this system , b if we just h cuz we would n't have the correct node . basically , w what you 're s proposing is a n where - is node , right ? grad a : yeah . grad c : and and if we and if someone says , you know , uh , something in mandarin to the system , we 'd - would n't know which node to look at to answer that question , grad a : so is yeah . yeah . grad c : right ? so , but but if we have a finite what ? grad b : i do n't see your point . what what what i am thinking , or what we 're about to propose here is we 're always gon na get the whole list of values and their posterior probabilities . and now we need an expert system or belief - net or something that interprets that , that looks at all the values and says , `` the winner is timing . now , go there . `` `` uh , go there , timing , now . `` or , `` the winner is info - on , function - off . `` so , he wants to know something about it , and what it does . nuh ? uh , regardless of of of the input . wh - regardle grad c : yeah , but but how does the expert but how does the expert system know how who which one to declare the winner , if it does n't know the question it is , and how that question should be answered ? grad b : based on the k what the question was , so what the discourse , the ontology , the situation and the user model gave us , we came up with these values for these decisions . grad c : yeah i know . but how do we weight what we get out ? as , which one i which ones are important ? so my i so , if we were to it with a bayes - net , we 'd have to have a node for every question that we knew how to deal with , that would take all of the inputs and weight them appropriately for that question . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : does that make sense ? yay , nay ? grad a : um , i mean , are you saying that , what happens if you try to scale this up to the situation , or are we just dealing with arbitrary language ? grad c : we grad a : is that your point ? grad c : well , no . i i guess my question is , is the reason that we can make a node f or ok . so , lem me see if i 'm confused . are we going to make a node for every question ? does that make sense ? grad a : for every question ? grad c : or not . grad a : like grad c : every construction . grad a : hmm . i do n't not necessarily , i would think . i mean , it 's not based on constructions , it 's based on things like , uh , there 's gon na be a node for go - there or not , and there 's gon na be a node for enter , view , approach . grad c : wel w ok . so , someone asked a question . grad a : yeah . grad c : how do we decide how to answer it ? grad b : well , look at look face yourself with this pr question . you get this you 'll have y this is what you get . and now you have to make a decision . what do we think ? what does this tell us ? and not knowing what was asked , and what happened , and whether the person was a tourist or a local , because all of these factors have presumably already gone into making these posterior probabilities . what what we need is a just a mechanism that says , `` aha ! there is `` grad c : yeah . i just do n't think a `` winner - take - all `` type of thing is the grad a : i mean , in general , like , we wo n't just have those three , right ? we 'll have , uh , like , many , many nodes . so we have to , like so that it 's no longer possible to just look at the nodes themselves and figure out what the person is trying to say . grad b : yep . because there are interdependencies , right ? the uh uh , no . so if if for example , the go - there posterior possibility is so high , um , uh , w if it 's if it has reached reached a certain height , then all of this becomes irrelevant . so . if even if if the function or the history or something is scoring pretty good on the true node , true value grad c : wel i do n't know about that , cuz that would suggest that i mean grad b : he wants to go there and know something about it ? grad c : do they have to be mutual yeah . do they have to be mutually exclusive ? grad b : i think to some extent they are . or maybe they 're not . grad c : cuz i , uh the way you describe what they meant , they were n't mutu uh , they did n't seem mutually exclusive to me . grad b : well , if he does n't want to go there , even if the enter posterior proba so . go - there is no . enter is high , and info - on is high . grad c : well , yeah , just out of the other three , though , that you had in the those three nodes . the - d they did n't seem like they were mutually exclusive . grad b : no , there 's no . but it 's through the grad c : so th s so , yeah , but some so , some things would drop out , and some things would still be important . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : but i guess what 's confusing me is , if we have a bayes - net to deal w another bayes - net to deal with this stuff , grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : you know , uh , is the only reason ok , so , i guess , if we have a ba - another bayes - net to deal with this stuff , the only r reason we can design it is cuz we know what each question is asking ? grad a : yeah . i think that 's true . grad c : and then , so , the only reason way we would know what question he 's asking is based upon oh , so if let 's say i had a construction parser , and i plug this in , i would know what each construction the communicative intent of the construction was grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : and so then i would know how to weight the nodes appropriately , in response . so no matter what they said , if i could map it onto a where - is construction , i could say , `` ah ! grad a : ge mm - hmm . grad c : well the the intent , here , was where - is `` , grad a : ok , right . grad c : and i could look at those . grad a : yeah . yes , i mean . sure . you do need to know i mean , to have that kind of information . grad b : hmm . yeah , i 'm also agreeing that a simple pru { comment } take the ones where we have a clear winner . forget about the ones where it 's all sort of middle ground . prune those out and just hand over the ones where we have a winner . yeah , because that would be the easiest way . we just compose as an output an xml mes message that says . `` go there now . `` `` enter historical information . `` and not care whether that 's consistent with anything . right ? but in this case if we say , `` definitely he does n't want to go there . he just wants to know where it is . `` or let 's call this this `` look - at - h `` he wants to know something about the history of . so he said , `` tell me something about the history of that . `` now , the e but for some reason the endpoint - approach gets a really high score , too . we ca n't expect this to be sort of at o point { comment } three , three , three , o point , three , three , three , o point , three , three , three . right ? somebody needs to zap that . you know ? or know there needs to be some knowledge that grad c : we yeah , but , the bayes - net that would merge i just realized that i had my hand in between my mouth and my micr er , my and my microphone . so then , the bayes - net that would merge there , that would make the decision between go - there , info - on , and location , would have a node to tell you which one of those three you wanted , and based upon that node , then you would look at the other stuff . grad b : yep . yep . grad c : i mean , it i does that make sense ? grad b : yep . it 's sort of one of those , that 's it 's more like a decision tree , if if you want . you first look o at the lowball ones , grad c : yeah , i grad b : and then grad c : yeah , i did n't intend to say that every possible ok . there was a confusion there , k i did n't intend to say every possible thing should go into the bayes - net , because some of the things are n't relevant in the bayes - net for a specific question . like the endpoint is not necessarily relevant in the bayes - net for where - is until after you 've decided whether you wan na go there or not . grad b : mm - hmm . grad a : right . grad c : show us the way , bhaskara . grad a : i guess the other thing is that um , yeah . i mean , when you 're asked a specific question and you do n't even like , if you 're asked a where - is question , you may not even look like , ask for the posterior probability of the , uh , eva node , right ? cuz , that 's what i mean , in the bayes - net you always ask for the posterior probability of a specific node . so , i mean , you may not even bother to compute things you do n't need . grad b : um . are n't we always computing all ? grad a : no . you can compute , uh , the posterior probability of one subset of the nodes , given some other nodes , but totally ignore some other nodes , also . basically , things you ignore get marginalized over . grad b : yeah , but that 's that 's just shifting the problem . then you would have to make a decision , grad a : yeah . so you have to make grad b : `` ok , if it 's a where - is question , which decision nodes do i query ? `` grad a : yeah . yes . but i would think that 's what you want to do . grad b : that 's un grad a : right ? grad d : well , eventually , you still have to pick out which ones you look at . grad b : yeah . grad d : so it 's pretty much the same problem , grad b : yeah it 's it 's it 's apples and oranges . grad d : is n't it ? grad b : nuh ? i mean , maybe it does make a difference in terms of performance , computational time . grad a : mm - hmm . grad b : so either you always have it compute all the posterior possibilities for all the values for all nodes , and then prune the ones you think that are irrelevant , or you just make a p @ @ { comment } a priori estimate of what you think might be relevant and query those . grad a : yeah . grad c : so basically , you 'd have a decision tree query , go - there . if k if that 's false , query this one . if that 's true , query that one . and just basically do a binary search through the ? grad a : i do n't know if it would necessarily be that , uh , complicated . but , uh i mean , it w grad c : well , in the case of go - there , it would be . in the case cuz if you needed an if y if go - there was true , you 'd wan na know what endpoint was . and if it was false , you 'd wan na d look at either lo - income info - on or history . grad a : yeah . that 's true , i guess . yeah , so , in a way you would have that . grad c : also , i 'm somewhat boggled by that hugin software . grad a : ok , why 's that ? grad c : i ca n't figure out how to get the probabilities into it . like , i 'd look at grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : it 's somewha it 's boggling me . grad a : ok . alright . well , hopefully it 's fixable . it 's there 's a grad c : oh yeah , yeah . i d i just think i have n't figured out what the terms in hugin mean , versus what java bayes terms are . grad b : um , by the way , are do we know whether jerry and nancy are coming ? grad a : so we can figure this out . grad b : or ? grad a : they should come when they 're done their stuff , basically , whenever that is . so . grad c : what d what do they need to do left ? grad a : um , i guess , jerry needs to enter marks , but i do n't know if he 's gon na do that now or later . but , uh , if he 's gon na enter marks , it 's gon na take him awhile , i guess , and he wo n't be here . grad c : and what 's nancy doing ? grad a : nancy ? um , she was sorta finishing up the , uh , calculation of marks and assigning of grades , but i do n't know if she should be here . well or , she should be free after that , so assuming she 's coming to this meeting . i do n't know if she knows about it . grad c : she 's on the email list , right ? grad a : is she ? ok . grad b : mm - hmm . ok . because basically , what where we also have decided , prior to this meeting is that we would have a rerun of the three of us sitting together sometime this week again and finish up the , uh , values of this . so we have , uh believe it or not , we have all the bottom ones here . grad c : well , i grad d : you added a bunch of nodes , for ? grad b : yep . we we we have actually what we have is this line . right ? grad c : uh , what do the , uh , structures do ? so the the the for instance , this location node 's got two inputs , grad a : four inputs . grad c : that one you grad b : four . grad a : those are the bottom things are inputs , also . grad c : oh , i see . grad a : yeah . grad c : ok , that was ok . that makes a lot more sense to me now . cuz i thought it was like , that one in stuart 's book about , you know , the grad a : alarm in the dog ? grad c : u yeah . grad a : yeah . grad c : or the earthquake and the alarm . grad a : sorry . yeah , i 'm confusing two . grad c : yeah , there 's a dog one , too , but that 's in java bayes , grad a : right . grad c : is n't it ? grad a : maybe . grad c : but there 's something about bowel problems or something with the dog . grad a : yeah . grad b : and we have all the top ones , all the ones to which no arrows are pointing . what we 're missing are the these , where arrows are pointing , where we 're combining top ones . so , we have to come up with values for this , and this , this , this , and so forth . and maybe just fiddle around with it a little bit more . and , um . and then it 's just , uh , edges , many of edges . and , um , we wo n't { comment } meet next monday . so . grad c : cuz of memorial day ? grad a : we 'll meet next tuesday , i guess . grad b : yep . yeah . grad c : when 's jerry leaving for italia ? grad b : on on friday . grad a : which friday ? grad b : this this friday . grad d : oh . this friday ? grad b : this friday . grad c : as in , four days ? or , three days ? grad a : is he how long is he gone for ? grad b : two weeks . grad a : italy , huh ? what 's , uh what 's there ? grad b : well , it 's a country . buildings . people . grad a : pasta . grad c : but it 's not a conference or anything . he 's just visiting . grad a : right . just visiting . grad b : vacation . grad a : it 's a pretty nice place , in my brief , uh , encounter with it . grad b : do you guys oh , yeah . so . part of what we actually want to do is sort of schedule out what we want to surprise him with when when he comes back . um , so grad c : oh , i think we should disappoint him . grad b : yeah ? you or have a finished construction parser and a working belief - net , and uh grad c : that would n't be disappointing . i think w we should do absolutely no work for the two weeks that he 's gone . grad b : well , that 's actually what i had planned , personally . i had i i had sort of scheduled out in my mind that you guys do a lot of work , and i do nothing . and then , i sort of grad c : oh , yeah , that sounds good , too . grad b : sort of bask in in your glory . but , uh , i do you guys have any vacation plans , because i myself am going to be , um , gone , but this is actually not really important . just this weekend we 're going camping . grad c : yeah , i 'm wan na be this gone this weekend , too . grad b : ah . but we 're all going to be here on tuesday again ? looks like it ? grad d : yeah . grad b : ok , then . let 's meet meet again next tuesday . and , um , finish up this bayes - net . and once we have finished it , i guess we can , um and that 's going to be more just you and me , because bhaskara is doing probabilistic , recursive , structured , object - oriented , uh , grad c : killing machines ! grad b : reasoning machines . and , um grad c : killing , reasoning . what 's the difference ? grad d : wait . so you 're saying , next tuesday , is it the whole group meeting , or just us three working on it , or or ? grad b : uh . the whole group . and we present our results , our final , definite grad d : so , when you were saying we need to do a re - run of , like grad a : h what ? grad d : what like , just working out the rest of the grad b : yeah . we should do this th the upcoming days . grad d : this week ? grad b : so , this week , yeah . grad c : when you say , `` the whole group `` , you mean the four of us , and keith ? grad b : and , ami might . grad c : ami might be here , and it 's possible that nancy 'll be here ? so , yeah . grad b : because , th you know , once we have the belief - net done grad c : you 're just gon na have to explain it to me , then , on tuesday , how it 's all gon na work out . you know . grad b : we will . ok . because then , once we have it sort of up and running , then we can start you know , defining the interfaces and then feed stuff into it and get stuff out of it , and then hook it up to some fake construction parser and grad c : that you will have in about nine months or so . grad b : yeah . grad c : yeah . grad b : and , um , grad c : the first bad version 'll be done in nine months . grad b : yeah , i can worry about the ontology interface and you can keith can worry about the discourse . i mean , this is pretty um , i mean , i i i hope everybody uh knows that these are just going to be uh dummy values , right ? grad a : which grad b : where the grad a : which ones ? grad b : s so so if the endpoint if the go - there is yes and no , then go - there - discourse will just be fifty - fifty . right ? grad a : um , what do you mean ? if the go - there says no , then the go - there is grad d : i do n't get it . grad a : i do n't u understand . like , the go - there depends on all those four things . yeah . grad b : but , what are the values of the go - there - discourse ? grad a : well , it depends on the situation . if the discourse is strongly indicating that grad b : yeah , but , uh , we have no discourse input . grad a : oh , i see . the d see , uh , specifically in our situation , d and o are gon na be , uh yeah . sure . so , whatever . grad d : so , so far we have is that what the keith node is ? ok . and you 're taking it out ? for now ? grad b : well , this is d grad d : or ? grad b : ok , this , i can i can get it in here . grad d : all the d 's are grad b : i can get it in here , so th we have the , uh , um , sk let 's let 's call it `` keith - johno grad a : johno ? grad b : node `` . there is an h { comment } somewhere printed . grad c : there you go . grad a : yeah . people have the same problem with my name . grad b : yeah . grad a : oops . grad b : and , um , grad c : does th th does the h go b before the a or after the a ? grad a : oh , in my name ? before the a . grad c : yeah . ok , good . cuz you kn when you said people have the same problem , i thought cuz my h goes after the uh e e e the v grad a : people have the inverse problem with my name . grad c : ok . i always have to check , every time y i send you an email , { comment } a past email of yours , { comment } to make sure i 'm spelling your name correctly . grad a : yeah . that 's good . grad c : i worry about you . grad a : i appreciate that . grad b : but , when you abbreviate yourself as the `` basman `` , you do n't use any h 's . grad a : `` basman `` ? yeah , it 's because of the chessplayer named michael basman , who is my hero . grad c : you 're a geek . it 's o k . i how do you pronou how do you pronounce your name ? grad a : not eva ? grad d : yeah . grad c : what if i were what if i were to call you eva ? grad d : i 'd probably still respond to it . i 've had people call me eva , but i do n't know . grad c : no , not just eva , eva . like if i u take the v and s pronounce it like it was a german v ? grad b : which is f . grad c : yeah . grad d : um , no idea then . grad b : voiced . grad d : what ? grad c : it sounds like an f . grad d : i grad c : there 's also an f in german , grad b : well , it 's just the difference between voiced and unvoiced . grad c : which is why i yeah . as long as that 's o k . i mean , i might slip out and say it accidentally . that 's all i 'm saying . grad d : that 's fine . grad a : yeah . it does n't matter what those nodes are , anyway , because we 'll just make the weights `` zero `` for now . grad b : yep . we 'll make them zero for now , because it who who knows what they come up with , what 's gon na come in there . ok . and , um , then should we start on thursday ? and not meet tomorrow ? grad a : sure . grad b : ok . i 'll send an email , make a time suggestion . grad c : wait , maybe it 's ok , so that that that we can that we have one node per construction . cuz even in people , like , they do n't know what you 're talking about if you 're using some sort of strange construction . grad b : yeah , they would still c sort of get the closest , best fit . grad c : well , yeah , but i mean , the uh , i mean , that 's what the construction parser would do . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : uh , i mean , if you said something completely arbitrary , it would f find the closest construction , right ? but if you said something that was completel er h theoretically the construction parser would do that but if you said something for which there was no construction whatsoever , n people would n't have any idea what you were talking about . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : like `` bus dog fried egg . `` i mean . you know . grad b : or , if even something chinese , for example . grad c : or , something in mandarin , yeah . or cantonese , as the case may be . what do you think about that , bhaskara ? grad a : i mean well but how many constructions do could we possibly have nodes for ? grad c : in this system , or in r grad a : no , we . like , when people do this kind of thing . grad c : oh , when p how many constructions do people have ? grad a : yeah . grad c : i have not { comment } the slightest idea . grad a : is it considered to be like in are they considered to be like very , uh , sort of s abstract things ? grad c : every noun is a construction . grad a : ok , so it 's like in the thousands . grad c : the yeah . any any form - meaning pair , to my understanding , is a construction . and form u starts at the level of noun or actually , maybe even sounds . grad b : phoneme . yep . grad c : yeah . and goes upwards until you get the ditransitive construction . and then , of course , the c i guess , maybe there can be the can there be combinations of the dit grad a : discourse - level constructions . grad c : yeah . the `` giving a speech `` construction , grad b : rhetorical constructions . yeah . but , i mean , you know , you can probably count count the ways . i mean . grad c : it 's probab yeah , i would s definitely say it 's finite . grad b : yeah . grad c : and at least in compilers , that 's all that really matters , as long as your analysis is finite . grad a : how 's that ? how it can be finite , again ? grad c : nah , i ca n't think of a way it would be infinite . grad b : well , you can come up with new constructions . grad c : yeah . { comment } if the if your if your brain was totally non - deterministic , then perhaps there 's a way to get , uh , infin an infinite number of constructions that you 'd have to worry about . grad a : but , i mean , in the practical sense , it 's impossible . grad c : right . cuz if we have a fixed number of neurons ? grad a : yeah . grad c : so the best - case scenario would be the number of constructions or , the worst - case scenario is the number of constructions equals the number of neurons . grad a : well , two to the power of the number of neurons . grad c : right . but still finite . no , wait . not necessarily , is it ? we can end the meeting . i just ca n't you use different var different levels of activation ? across , uh lots of different neurons , to specify different values ? grad b : mm - hmm . grad a : um , yeah , but there 's , like , a certain level of grad c : there 's a bandwidth issue , grad a : bandw - yeah , so you ca n't do better than something . grad c : right ? yeah . </s>
<s> what was the structure of the bayes-net discussed . </s> grad b : what do you mean by `` differently weighted `` ? they do n't feed into anything really anymore . grad a : but i mean , why do we grad c : or i jus grad a : if we trusted the go - there node more th much more than we trusted the other ones , then we would conclude , even in this situation , that he wanted to go there . so , in that sense , we weight them equally right now . grad b : ok . makes sense . yeah . but grad c : so the but i guess the k the question that i was as er wondering or maybe robert was proposing to me is how do we d make the decision on as to which one to listen to ? grad a : yeah , so , the final d decision is the combination of these three . so again , it 's it 's some kind of , uh grad c : bayes - net . grad a : yeah , sure . grad c : ok so , then , the question i so then my question is t to you then , would be so is the only r reason we can make all these smaller bayes - nets , because we know we can only deal with a finite set of constructions ? cuz oth if we 're just taking arbitrary language in , we could n't have a node for every possible question , you know ? grad a : a decision node for every possible question , you mean ? grad c : well , i like , in the case of yeah . in the ca any piece of language , we would n't be able to answer it with this system , b if we just h cuz we would n't have the correct node . basically , w what you 're s proposing is a n where - is node , right ? grad a : yeah . grad c : and and if we and if someone says , you know , uh , something in mandarin to the system , we 'd - would n't know which node to look at to answer that question , grad a : so is yeah . yeah . grad c : right ? so , but but if we have a finite what ? grad b : i do n't see your point . what what what i am thinking , or what we 're about to propose here is we 're always gon na get the whole list of values and their posterior probabilities . and now we need an expert system or belief - net or something that interprets that , that looks at all the values and says , `` the winner is timing . now , go there . `` `` uh , go there , timing , now . `` or , `` the winner is info - on , function - off . `` so , he wants to know something about it , and what it does . nuh ? uh , regardless of of of the input . wh - regardle grad c : yeah , but but how does the expert but how does the expert system know how who which one to declare the winner , if it does n't know the question it is , and how that question should be answered ? grad b : based on the k what the question was , so what the discourse , the ontology , the situation and the user model gave us , we came up with these values for these decisions . grad c : yeah i know . but how do we weight what we get out ? as , which one i which ones are important ? so my i so , if we were to it with a bayes - net , we 'd have to have a node for every question that we knew how to deal with , that would take all of the inputs and weight them appropriately for that question . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : does that make sense ? yay , nay ? grad a : um , i mean , are you saying that , what happens if you try to scale this up to the situation , or are we just dealing with arbitrary language ? grad c : we grad a : is that your point ? grad c : well , no . i i guess my question is , is the reason that we can make a node f or ok . so , lem me see if i 'm confused . are we going to make a node for every question ? does that make sense ? grad a : for every question ? grad c : or not . grad a : like grad c : every construction . grad a : hmm . i do n't not necessarily , i would think . i mean , it 's not based on constructions , it 's based on things like , uh , there 's gon na be a node for go - there or not , and there 's gon na be a node for enter , view , approach . grad c : wel w ok . so , someone asked a question . grad a : yeah . grad c : how do we decide how to answer it ? grad b : well , look at look face yourself with this pr question . you get this you 'll have y this is what you get . and now you have to make a decision . what do we think ? what does this tell us ? and not knowing what was asked , and what happened , and whether the person was a tourist or a local , because all of these factors have presumably already gone into making these posterior probabilities . what what we need is a just a mechanism that says , `` aha ! there is `` grad c : yeah . i just do n't think a `` winner - take - all `` type of thing is the grad a : i mean , in general , like , we wo n't just have those three , right ? we 'll have , uh , like , many , many nodes . so we have to , like so that it 's no longer possible to just look at the nodes themselves and figure out what the person is trying to say . grad b : yep . because there are interdependencies , right ? the uh uh , no . so if if for example , the go - there posterior possibility is so high , um , uh , w if it 's if it has reached reached a certain height , then all of this becomes irrelevant . so . if even if if the function or the history or something is scoring pretty good on the true node , true value grad c : wel i do n't know about that , cuz that would suggest that i mean grad b : he wants to go there and know something about it ? grad c : do they have to be mutual yeah . do they have to be mutually exclusive ? grad b : i think to some extent they are . or maybe they 're not . grad c : cuz i , uh the way you describe what they meant , they were n't mutu uh , they did n't seem mutually exclusive to me . grad b : well , if he does n't want to go there , even if the enter posterior proba so . go - there is no . enter is high , and info - on is high . grad c : well , yeah , just out of the other three , though , that you had in the those three nodes . the - d they did n't seem like they were mutually exclusive . grad b : no , there 's no . but it 's through the grad c : so th s so , yeah , but some so , some things would drop out , and some things would still be important . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : but i guess what 's confusing me is , if we have a bayes - net to deal w another bayes - net to deal with this stuff , grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : you know , uh , is the only reason ok , so , i guess , if we have a ba - another bayes - net to deal with this stuff , the only r reason we can design it is cuz we know what each question is asking ? grad a : yeah . i think that 's true . grad c : and then , so , the only reason way we would know what question he 's asking is based upon oh , so if let 's say i had a construction parser , and i plug this in , i would know what each construction the communicative intent of the construction was grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : and so then i would know how to weight the nodes appropriately , in response . so no matter what they said , if i could map it onto a where - is construction , i could say , `` ah ! grad a : ge mm - hmm . grad c : well the the intent , here , was where - is `` , </s>
<s> what was discussed about contextualizing output ? </s> grad b : well , if he does n't want to go there , even if the enter posterior proba so . go - there is no . enter is high , and info - on is high . grad c : well , yeah , just out of the other three , though , that you had in the those three nodes . the - d they did n't seem like they were mutually exclusive . grad b : no , there 's no . but it 's through the grad c : so th s so , yeah , but some so , some things would drop out , and some things would still be important . grad b : mm - hmm . grad c : but i guess what 's confusing me is , if we have a bayes - net to deal w another bayes - net to deal with this stuff , grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : you know , uh , is the only reason ok , so , i guess , if we have a ba - another bayes - net to deal with this stuff , the only r reason we can design it is cuz we know what each question is asking ? grad a : yeah . i think that 's true . grad c : and then , so , the only reason way we would know what question he 's asking is based upon oh , so if let 's say i had a construction parser , and i plug this in , i would know what each construction the communicative intent of the construction was grad a : mm - hmm . grad c : and so then i would know how to weight the nodes appropriately , in response . so no matter what they said , if i could map it onto a where - is construction , i could say , `` ah ! grad a : ge mm - hmm . grad c : well the the intent , here , was where - is `` , grad a : ok , right . grad c : and i could look at those . grad a : yeah . yes , i mean . sure . you do need to know i mean , to have that kind of information . </s>
<s> how does the bayes-net deal with inputs ? </s> grad a : um , i guess , jerry needs to enter marks , but i do n't know if he 's gon na do that now or later . but , uh , if he 's gon na enter marks , it 's gon na take him awhile , i guess , and he wo n't be here . grad c : and what 's nancy doing ? grad a : nancy ? um , she was sorta finishing up the , uh , calculation of marks and assigning of grades , but i do n't know if she should be here . well or , she should be free after that , so assuming she 's coming to this meeting . i do n't know if she knows about it . grad c : she 's on the email list , right ? grad a : is she ? ok . grad b : mm - hmm . ok . because basically , what where we also have decided , prior to this meeting is that we would have a rerun of the three of us sitting together sometime this week again and finish up the , uh , values of this . so we have , uh believe it or not , we have all the bottom ones here . grad c : well , i grad d : you added a bunch of nodes , for ? grad b : yep . we we we have actually what we have is this line . right ? grad c : uh , what do the , uh , structures do ? so the the the for instance , this location node 's got two inputs , grad a : four inputs . grad c : that one you grad b : four . grad a : those are the bottom things are inputs , also . grad c : oh , i see . grad a : yeah . grad c : ok , that was ok . that makes a lot more sense to me now . cuz i thought it was like , that one in stuart 's book about , you know , the grad a : alarm in the dog ? grad c : u yeah . grad a : yeah . grad c : or the earthquake and the alarm . grad a : sorry . yeah , i 'm confusing two . grad c : yeah , there 's a dog one , too , but that 's in java bayes , grad a : right . grad c : is n't it ? grad a : maybe . grad c : but there 's something about bowel problems or something with the dog . grad a : yeah . grad b : and we have all the top ones , all the ones to which no arrows are pointing . what we 're missing are the these , where arrows are pointing , where we 're combining top ones . so , we have to come up with values for this , and this , this , this , and so forth . and maybe just fiddle around with it a little bit more . and , um . and then it 's just , uh , edges , many of edges . and , um , we wo n't { comment } meet next monday . so . grad c : cuz of memorial day ? grad a : we 'll meet next tuesday , i guess . grad b : yep . yeah . grad c : when 's jerry leaving for italia ? grad b : on on friday . grad a : which friday ? grad b : this this friday . grad d : oh . this friday ? grad b : this friday . grad c : as in , four days ? or , three days ? grad a : is he how long is he gone for ? grad b : two weeks . grad a : italy , huh ? what 's , uh what 's there ? grad b : well , it 's a country . buildings . people . grad a : pasta . grad c : but it 's not a conference or anything . he 's just visiting . grad a : right . just visiting . grad b : vacation . grad a : it 's a pretty nice place , in my brief , uh , encounter with it . grad b : do you guys oh , yeah . so . part of what we actually want to do is sort of schedule out what we want to surprise him with when when he comes back . um , so grad c : oh , i think we should disappoint him . grad b : yeah ? you or have a finished construction parser and a working belief - net , and uh grad c : that would n't be disappointing . i think w we should do absolutely no work for the two weeks that he 's gone . grad b : well , that 's actually what i had planned , personally . i had i i had sort of scheduled out in my mind that you guys do a lot of work , and i do nothing . and then , i sort of grad c : oh , yeah , that sounds good , too . grad b : sort of bask in in your glory . but , uh , i do you guys have any vacation plans , because i myself am going to be , um , gone , but this is actually not really important . just this weekend we 're going camping . grad c : yeah , i 'm wan na be this gone this weekend , too . grad b : ah . but we 're all going to be here on tuesday again ? looks like it ? grad d : yeah . grad b : ok , then . let 's meet meet again next tuesday . and , um , finish up this bayes - net . and once we have finished it , i guess we can , um and that 's going to be more just you and me , because bhaskara is doing probabilistic , recursive , structured , object - oriented , uh , grad c : killing machines ! grad b : reasoning machines . and , um grad c : killing , reasoning . what 's the difference ? grad d : wait . so you 're saying , next tuesday , is it the whole group meeting , or just us three working on it , or or ? grad b : uh . the whole group . and we present our results , our final , definite grad d : so , when you were saying we need to do a re - run of , like grad a : h what ? grad d : what like , just working out the rest of the grad b : yeah . we should do this th the upcoming days . grad d : this week ? grad b : so , this week , yeah . grad c : when you say , `` the whole group `` , you mean the four of us , and keith ? grad b : and , ami might . grad c : ami might be here , and it 's possible that nancy 'll be here ? so , yeah . grad b : because , th you know , once we have the belief - net done grad c : you 're just gon na have to explain it to me , then , on tuesday , how it 's all gon na work out . you know . grad b : we will . ok . because then , once we have it sort of up and running , then we can start you know , defining the interfaces and then feed stuff into it and get stuff out of it , and then hook it up to some fake construction parser and grad c : that you will have in about nine months or so . grad b : yeah . grad c : yeah . grad b : and , um , grad c : the first bad version 'll be done in nine months . grad b : yeah , i can worry about the ontology interface and you can keith can worry about the discourse . i mean , this is pretty um , i mean , i i i hope everybody uh knows that these are just going to be uh dummy values , right ? grad a : which grad b : where the grad a : which ones ? grad b : s so so if the endpoint if the go - there is yes and no , then go - there - discourse will just be fifty - fifty . right ? grad a : um , what do you mean ? if the go - there says no , then the go - there is grad d : i do n't get it . grad a : i do n't u understand . like , the go - there depends on all those four things . yeah . grad b : but , what are the values of the go - there - discourse ? grad a : well , it depends on the situation . if the discourse is strongly indicating that </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay everyone 's ready . user interface : hello . project manager : so we are here for uh for uh functional design . okay ? so we are here for the functional design meeting mm so first i will show the agenda so we will uh i will take notes during this meeting so i will try to summarise it and put that summary in the shared folder if you want to look at it afterwards user interface : project manager : so then uh each of you will uh lead a presentation on the task that has been required last time so user requirement specification , technical function design and working design . then i will uh present you some new project requirements i received from uh the management board . then we will take uh the decision on on the remote control uh needed functions and then i will assign you the task for the next part of the meeting . of the of the process . so uh who want to start the the presentation of what they did ? industrial designer : f do you want to start ? user interface : make a start yeah . project manager : you can start . user interface : so . project manager : user interface : cable , camera . project manager : you have uh powerpoint ? user interface : should be in my in their folder no ? project manager : ah yeah maybe there . okay . who are you ? user interface : um at three i think . project manager : user interface : no ? mm . project manager : ouch . and user interface : industrial designer : okay . project manager : we have a technical problem uh . user interface : do we think w s in the in the wrong folder maybe ? it is possible . project manager : you put it on user interface : it was somewhere in something like this . i do n't remember the name actually must be something like messenger ami or something . industrial designer : what do you have in short cut ? user interface : go up . industrial designer : participant two . user interface : yeah go up . project manager : yeah . user interface : again . no . go back . project manager : you have no user interface : uh maybe messenger ami . messenger . project manager : over . okay . user interface : no . there is nothing . project manager : there 's no we have a technical problem . user interface : let 's go and check . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'll go and check . industrial designer : otherwise , could you just describe by hand ? user interface : okay . industrial designer : with the the whiteboard ? project manager : if you remember yeah user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : but that 's user interface : so uh . basically what we want here is a remote control right . project manager : yeah . user interface : so um the question well first of all what to control . so most people want to have a a remote for their hi-fi and tv and stuff like that . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and but other people want th also remotes for controlling uh and toys like robotic pets and little robots and stuff industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and other people also want to have remotes for controlling um whole house . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , so there 's a project i think called x_ house or something like that that does that , uh you can integrate your remote with uh computers stuff . so industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : there is one that is one thing . the other is the the finder feature yeah by whistling or whatever . uh if you have the finder feature then you can also have industrial designer : okay . user interface : uh at the same time as and general voice commands if you want yeah . so i think it should be a package in that case . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : uh so the user interface will consist of two parts . one is the voice command part and on one is the actual buttons part . uh and th the buttons part would be uh a set of buttons for choosing devices , a set of buttons for special navigation in space , industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : a set of buttons for linear access of medium and a set of buttons for random access . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah ? industrial designer : what do you mean by linear access then ? user interface : like a video tape goes forward , backwards , uh fast and stuff yeah . project manager : okay so special navigation , linear access , random access and there 's a fourth one no ? so the better now for special navigation ? user interface : yeah . for special navigation for example you might have a tv in the menu and you going to change yeah ? project manager : okay . then linear access then random access . user interface : mm . yeah and also parameter changing . project manager : ah yeah parameter okay . user interface : so if there are common parameters maybe we should put special buttons for that um project manager : okay . user interface : or maybe we could have everything uh generic but uh there are a lot of uh remotes on the market right now and basically this is most of the almost everybody has this stuff . project manager : okay . okay and and voice command did you uh user interface : voice command w we could specify anything . we could assign any button a command to any button , if we have enough processing power , project manager : okay . okay . user interface : i guess so . yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : so that 's uh that close your investigations ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : uh yeah i think so . project manager : okay . user interface : not so far . project manager : maybe we can have a look at the user requirements with marketing : yeah . um i dunno if you can open the project manager : i dunno if i can open it . maybe you can s marketing : uh m is not here . project manager : it 's marketing : uh in yeah okay . project manager : messenger no ? marketing : no . in document . mm computer yeah . project manager : in which folder ? user interface : where did you put it ? marketing : here . here . project manager : short-cut to ami shared folder ? user interface : mm . marketing : but it 's not um . project manager : maybe you can send it to me by email . just to participant one . at ami . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , i can do that . project manager : i will try to show it to everyone , that would be more comfortable . marketing : okay . um . project manager : you send it ? marketing : it 's participant one ? project manager : yeah . uh this is this email . user interface : i 'm designing the user interface . marketing : okay . you can uh . project manager : okay . so maybe i can switch slides when you whenever you ask , marketing : yeah . project manager : that will be more convenient . so okay , functional requirements . marketing : okay so you can you can go . okay so in our usability lab we observed the remote control use among one hundred subjects and the subjects also filled a questionnaire project manager : yeah . marketing : okay ? and here i have the results so you can see that um seventy five per cent of users find most remote controls ugly so we have to find something to make them more more nice , more kind . eighty per cents of users would spend more money when the remote control would look fancy . eighty hundred per cent of users would spend more money when the remote control would look project manager : user interface : marketing : oh to it 's not good . so okay . project manager : we can just keep doing that ? marketing : so it 's not in theory but i i can i can say yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : fifty f uh seventy five per cent of users say they s zap a lot . so mm we have to have a remote control uh very um out for that . uh the buttons have are to be um uh uh like you say resist resisting to to shocks . project manager : okay . marketing : um and fifty per cents of users say they only use uh ten per cents of but of the buttons in the in the remote control . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : so all the buttons we we have to put are have to to have um a use a real use project manager : okay . marketing : and not only or project manager : okay , so fewer buttons maybe would be good ? marketing : yeah . f not many buttons , and uh and uh uh u useable buttons . project manager : okay . user interface : but what kind of remote controls did you look at ? marketing : sorry ? user interface : what kind of task was it ? it was a tv ? marketing : yeah . uh most for most is tv . project manager : yeah . yeah but in fact we it it seems that we are going to make a tv remote control according to new requirements i received from the management bo i will present them in the following . user interface : uh-huh . ah ! good . marketing : 'kay you can go so . project manager : okay . marketing : so there are other frustrations expressed by users , so they said uh they lost uh often the remote control in in the room so they want to have a way to to project manager : yeah . to find it . marketing : to find it . project manager : yeah . marketing : um and um lot of the time they it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote control . project manager : yeah . marketing : so they want something s really very simple and uh easy to use . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . marketing : and uh remote controls are bad for project manager : what is her other side ? marketing : r_s_i_ um user interface : other side yeah , yo wa your wrist marketing : i dunno . project manager : user interface : it i can become painful you can have tendonditis . project manager : oh yeah ? user interface : yeah . project manager : i did not knew that . user interface : if you also up on a computer in a strange position . project manager : okay so you we have to make it uh more ergonomic yeah . user interface : ergonomic . but uh . marketing : yeah . user interface : have to say ha ha . project manager : it 's your job marketing : project manager : oh . marketing : uh . project manager : uh sorry got a message from microsoft . industrial designer : marketing : okay um before that i i have some some some thing uh to say before um project manager : yeah . yeah yeah . marketing : we know that uh the user use uh a lot their um remote control um to to change channel . project manager : yeah . marketing : um and um to to change uh volume selection of the project manager : okay . marketing : and uh and not uh a lot for setting for setting the the channels and uh thing things like that . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's better to put uh uh uh something very easy to set and uh and project manager : yeah . this function should be very uh accessible . marketing : very accessible yes . project manager : yeah , okay . this is the main function okay . marketing : that 's right . so then we asked some questions to them project manager : yeah . marketing : and um we asked this question if they prefer an lcd screen or on their remultific function remotes control project manager : yeah . marketing : and if they mm pay more for speech recognition in remote control project manager : yeah . marketing : and you can go we have here the results of user interface : the first question . marketing : of the questions . so you know that um project manager : marketing : for the younger it 's very important project manager : to have lcd and voice . marketing : to have the s yes and speech recognition . and uh and the others is not so important but uh we know that uh uh people between fifteen and twenty five are people who watch a lot tv and uh who who wh can use a lot this uh . project manager : okay . marketing : so maybe we we can have a speech recognition in . project manager : yeah maybe this this is important . marketing : yeah . project manager : moreover th maybe those uh like those teenager customer could advice their parents to buy this equipment and so we can we have to take care of that point of view i think or so . yeah . marketing : okay and if there is th the conclusion now . so as we say before , i think uh um a remote control lightening in the dark it 's it 's a good thing . project manager : okay . marketing : uh not to many mud buttons like we we said before , project manager : yeah . marketing : e easy to use uh a way to find it easily in the room and uh uh resistant to to shock and to to industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . marketing : an i s no , yeah . project manager : okay these are the user requi marketing : i dunno if you see something else important or industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : i 'm just thinking of some thing . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um we want to have a no , i do n't know if this is a good idea . we want to have a a general remote control for everything . project manager : no no no . we w it seems that we no want to have a tv remote control . from the management board i receive an email . industrial designer : okay . yeah . project manager : cos it would be costly uh and and also it it would take more time to develop to have a a general generic remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah . yeah . user interface : mm i it 's not true i think . the the second claim that you put . industrial designer : no no . project manager : that it would be too long to develop . user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : i think that should be the same . project manager : oh yeah . because i received that email from management board and they seems to tell that that if we want to be on the market as early as possible we should uh focus on tv more where it seems that the market is more important . so maybe it 's a good decision . i dunno . what 's your opinion ? user interface : i have uh i 've no idea i mean i should know a bit more about how fast we can uh design it . marketing : user interface : i do n't think project manager : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : uh yeah . industrial designer : finish tonight . project manager : user interface : yeah . okay . yeah . industrial designer : but basically yeah maybe i can continue with my presentation , it would be al you you project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but i think we have some technical problem or so . so i 'm just going to describe briefly what we do in the remote control . project manager : maybe you can go to the whiteboard if you have some drawings to do industrial designer : if fact project manager : i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah but do i have oh yeah . project manager : industrial designer : now i have enough cables . user interface : like a you feel a bit like a dog with this stuff . project manager : industrial designer : okay so i 'm just going to describe in fact for for a remote control this is quite easy . we just have project manager : user interface : industrial designer : sorry , i 'm going project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : are you okay ? industrial designer : like that . i 'm just going to describe . basically we have a a battery a power supply here . after that we just have um user interface . let 's say that um something like that , which could be um a lcd let 's say or um an array of push button , something like that . push button or a lcd . after that we we feed that into um uh an electronic chip . so i say u_c_ and i feed that to uh l_e_d_ which is uh infrared um which is a an infrared um component . and so what we for for myself this for for us this is quite easy . project manager : u_c_ is the central unit ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay yeah . industrial designer : y it 's a it 's this just a chip which does all the um numerical project manager : computation . industrial designer : numerical computation according to your display . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and so for us uh this is quite easy . we just need to take to define what we want to do when the user interface um wants something and after that we just do the coding to s and send that to to to the not the to the television . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so for us this is quite easy . project manager : okay so this is quite easy . there is not that much constraints . industrial designer : yeah . um we just have to define the processing power that we need uh especially if we want to do some uh speech recognition , in that case that mean that we are going to use more for simple user interface : this will think this will take more time to develop also . industrial designer : yeah of course of course . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and um but for a standard one this is really easy . it 's a question of one month and so on s user interface : soon . project manager : to have a you s you speak about with voi voice control ? industrial designer : no no no no , project manager : standard button one . industrial designer : i say yeah standard uh standard remote control takes maybe uh one month to to do that . user interface : yeah . so the only time problem is the sp voice recognition . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : definitely . user interface : yeah . project manager : so do you have any idea of how long it would take to have voice recognition now ? user interface : ten years . industrial designer : i would say . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : i would say uh about eight months to have the first results . project manager : okay so i it 's a bit long yeah . industrial designer : yeah . i can um . project manager : one month for the standard one with button . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : even if we have a lcd display ? industrial designer : yeah even . i mean that this is really standard devices now . um eight . for uh speech recognition . project manager : okay yeah . okay so we can take this into account . so who think it would be good to go for uh like speech recognition ? user interface : but we do n't have time to market . project manager : yeah it will . industrial designer : and also how much uh i think user interface : i think we should contact management . industrial designer : during the kickoff meeting you say that we we should n't we should n't go up to twelve point five euro per unit marketing : project manager : euros . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : so how many units should we sell to have a user interface : well . uh project manager : well each unit is is sell uh twenty five euros . industrial designer : yeah but how many yeah . user interface : how muc how much do you get how much do you if you buy one million units h no , one hundred thousand units . marketing : user interface : eh chips . we 're gon na need chips right . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . how much will it cost for one hundred thousand ? industrial designer : usually this is less tha at two dollars per chip . user interface : okay . project manager : because we are user interface : so you have any idea for a powerful one that has uh good enough for do speech recognition . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yeah ? okay . industrial designer : we can project manager : it seems that that we want to sell like four million units from the first meeting . user interface : no it does n't . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . four million . project manager : okay . maybe we can uh we can look at the new requirement i receive from the management board and discus discuss all function we want to have . industrial designer : um i just had a question uh do you want to continue with your presenta ? marketing : project manager : yeah i i will continue . industrial designer : is it project manager : well ask your question if you want . industrial designer : um you say that i do n't remember by heart but thirty per cent of the tested people say that 's it 's quite difficult to to to use the remote control . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : do they say that this is difficult but for the same reason or do they have other reason ? to to maybe to keep in mind maybe to access to that menu you should do something like that . marketing : would j uh yeah w i i think they they say that it 's uh difficult to learn how to use it but i when you know how to use it , it 's it 's okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : okay . it 's not intuitive first . industrial designer : and marketing : but yeah . industrial designer : but yeah maybe and what about if we design a remote control which can be configure as you want ? you say that i want , i have six button user interface : mh-hmm . a a lot of people are uh if you have the lcd screen if you can do it completely the way you want because the buttons also look the way you want them industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . but , but also it seems that industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but it will be hard to configure i mean imagine i uh project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so it 's really something for the expert user . so industrial designer : okay . user interface : i mean there are markets and markets . i think the young people are th uh are uh marketing : user interface : christine here said uh you have a industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh it is yeah . so for our young people uh it will be cool , they can be able to use it . th maybe their parents will not but they will configure it . i guess . i do n't know if there is study about that . project manager : yeah . maybe it would be more complex to configure it to be simple than creating a simple product . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . yeah . yeah . user interface : and there are another thing is that if we make something that 's simple and easy to use that 's bas to use immediately that means that it will be exactly the same as everything else . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : all right ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : otherwise , if it 's different then of course everybody has somebody has to learn to use it first . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but also we we see that that most people find it find remote controls too complex because they have too many buttons and they mainly use only channels and volume buttons . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so we may just uh make a very easy to use remote control with mainly those buttons user interface : yeah . project manager : and maybe also um some lightning stuff too because most people find also hard to to find the remote control . losed lose it etcetera . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : these these are these two points are the main frustrations so maybe if we design something very simple and easy to uh find when lost it will uh add uh a serious competitive advantage without making something too complex and too long to develop . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so but le let us see first the new requirement . so we do n't have to so this this uh is uh is um in the this is in the same direction as we were speaking so we do n't have to make a very complex remote controls to access teletext and stuff like that user interface : but teletext is just one button . project manager : yeah but then you have to you have to define the buttons to surf amongst pages and stuff . user interface : you you just write the write the numbers . project manager : yeah . so well user interface : so will you add with the channel keys , right ? project manager : yeah . so anyway we do n't have to include this feature because it 's it 's not used any more by users , user interface : so . project manager : they prefer to s user interface : i am . i 'm sure that uh it do n't like but uh i do n't see just one button . project manager : yeah . i dunno . if i one button is still one more button . if if if we want to make it very simple we have to reduce number of buttons compared to th to our competitors . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : well anyway i have this point . we can discuss . also um so as as i told before uh it would be better if it 's only for the tv um because we want to be quick on on the market . and then also we have to make very uh uh clear that this uh this remote control is is part of of our products and show our corporate uh logo and and colours on the on the design as well so that uh they identify it as one of our product . so this is the the key point . marketing : project manager : so before uh finishing we can uh define uh what would be the characteristic of the o th of the control of the remote control and which button do we need which function do we want etcetera . user interface : capital . project manager : so do you um so so from from the the marketing expert i think a key aspect is the easy to use aspect , it should be very simple and most button are never used only ten per cent of the button are are used often so i think we have to do something very simple and i think we all agree on that point , no ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : well if it is going to be just a tv remote control it is going to be very simple . project manager : yeah okay . so yeah the key point here is simple . maybe . so few buttons , channel , volume control and what el what function do you see in addition to that ? user interface : well if it 's going to be as simple as possible then just have the remote control , there is no other function that i can see project manager : yeah . user interface : really . project manager : maybe switch tv on and off user interface : uh industrial designer : project manager : user interface : no you want to keep television on so that the advertising can revenue can come back to us . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : or something . marketing : project manager : volume , maybe a mute button , and then on off button . and that 's all ? industrial designer : uh i know that som you say that many people are doing plenty of a lot of zapping . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : industrial designer : i know tha i discovered that when i did a quick look , uh they do now som they do something which is quite nice now , user interface : it 's a memory , yeah . industrial designer : you have a button , you you press it , and this is uh the previous channel which has come back . project manager : okay . yeah this is cool . maybe we can include that also . previous previous channel button . so we have like channel button , the previous channel button , the volume button , plus a mute button , and uh just the the traditional on off button . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : and uh and of course the channel changing buttons . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . i i talk about that , yeah ? user interface : how should they how should we implement that ? because uh could be numerical only or could be also incremental . project manager : yeah . incremental definitely because zapping you you switch them . industrial designer : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : let 's say that we can do something like that . this is uh incremental , but once you press it for a long time , you go five by five . project manager : we go faster ? industrial designer : to go fa to go faster . user interface : mm . it 's an interesting idea , that if you press it for a long time it does something else , in general . so if you you have your ten buttons for the for the numeric the numerical buttons and you have instead of having just one memory industrial designer : yeah . marketing : user interface : you have if you press them for a long time no . does n't work does it . project manager : maybe we should have also a digit button user interface : maybe we should have a complete keyboard and just type console commands . project manager : industrial designer : project manager : yeah . user interface : change channel to eight . project manager : maybe we have also to have digits or only incremental . user interface : no . project manager : i dunno bec because if you have the user interface : well if it 's useful like if if you want to change between three channels for example then you h you can not you can not can not work with just memory being incremental . project manager : uh . yeah . because you have your previous channel button if you have incremental only it 's not uh it is n't worth it because the previous channel is eith either minus one or plus one . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so i think we need also digits . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : maybe we we can make very obvious the channel and volume button button and smaller button down there with the the digits . user interface : yeah when you zap usually you will have to press the same button all the time project manager : yeah . user interface : and industrial designer : or we can do something like that . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we can design the remote control to have access . you know some remote control have uh protection marketing : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and so you you y project manager : yeah . user interface : hey i just thought this thing industrial designer : you user interface : there is a i mean you know there is are some with a wheel like this . instead of having the up down buttons for uh you can have the wheel . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , a kind of joystick . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . maybe we can have a wheel for incremental . user interface : project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : so have a wheel for incremental , have the digits uh on the lower side that can be closed so as you say protected , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : and uh yeah i think this is the basi user interface : on the lower side i think it you have to turn it . project manager : and do we do we have a user interface : no ? if we do that . industrial designer : or a or a ball , yeah , not a a wheel but a ball , and you say uh to project manager : no , a wheel is better . user interface : yeah . project manager : i would say the wheel is better . user interface : because of that project manager : what is the expert of uh industrial designer : yeah . user interface : the channels change one by one . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so you have to the user has to like to should feel the the the discrete sense a bit . industrial designer : yeah , the project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . that 's a good idea . user interface : yeah . project manager : well also we have to decide uh so it should be lightening in the dark i think because most people lost their remote control . industrial designer : 's quite it 's quite easy we do that w with back light on the on the wheel . project manager : okay . marketing : user interface : yeah . even if i l_e_d_ uh or a if if it 's the lcd feature uh industrial designer : a blue a blue l_e_d_ and we sell that um . project manager : yeah , user interface : whatever , yeah . project manager : and do we put an lcd display ? marketing : user interface : yeah . project manager : because it was important for young customers if you remember . user interface : i think it 's only put on if cou have multi function . if you do not multi function then there is no p point in having lcd . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : just increase the cost . project manager : okay . user interface : the user does not have an advantage really . project manager : so no lcd ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and so no speech as well because it w it would delay too much the development process user interface : well if it 's going to delay yeah industrial designer : okay . user interface : but uh it will be cool . it would . because a user could say c_n_n_ for example and it would go c_n_n_ . mm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . that would be cool . but eight months is really long user interface : yeah . project manager : and maybe we can just uh industrial designer : ten years project manager : user interface : project manager : okay . so um i i will uh i will so i we will move to next meeting so in after the lunch break uh here are the individual uh action uh you are required to do industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : but you will be uh recalled to the actions by uh email i think but you can take notes if you if you want but well the instruction will be sent . so thank you for uh your suggestion industrial designer : okay . project manager : and i i will make a summary of that meeting that i will put in the shared folder you ca n't see industrial designer : okay . okay . marketing : project manager : and uh and then you will um you will be able to to see what has been uh has been said on on this meeting and and what has been decided . uh maybe for next meeting uh send me your presentation before by email so that we can see them uh altogether . that would be easier . user interface : yeah . what is the folder that you put yours in ? and did it it did work ? marketing : no . project manager : no it did not work . marketing : no no . project manager : she send it to me by email . user interface : ah yeah . mm . marketing : i dunno , i dunno it . user interface : okay . project manager : so maybe this is better , to send it by email . okay ? user interface : okay what is your email ? project manager : so yeah i i 'm it 's in the first uh email so i 'm participant one at ami user interface : at participant one . okay . project manager : uh where is that , it 's here . participant one at ami . okay . so see you after lunch break . user interface : well during lunch break actually . marketing : 'kay thank you . user interface : so next time we should have a fight . project manager : user interface : how about uh management or something . who happens to be your friend . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about marketing 's presentation on user requirement . </s> marketing : yeah . um i dunno if you can open the project manager : i dunno if i can open it . maybe you can s marketing : uh m is not here . project manager : it 's marketing : uh in yeah okay . project manager : messenger no ? marketing : no . in document . mm computer yeah . project manager : in which folder ? user interface : where did you put it ? marketing : here . here . project manager : short-cut to ami shared folder ? user interface : mm . marketing : but it 's not um . project manager : maybe you can send it to me by email . just to participant one . at ami . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , i can do that . project manager : i will try to show it to everyone , that would be more comfortable . marketing : okay . um . project manager : you send it ? marketing : it 's participant one ? project manager : yeah . uh this is this email . user interface : i 'm designing the user interface . marketing : okay . you can uh . project manager : okay . so maybe i can switch slides when you whenever you ask , marketing : yeah . project manager : that will be more convenient . so okay , functional requirements . marketing : okay so you can you can go . okay so in our usability lab we observed the remote control use among one hundred subjects and the subjects also filled a questionnaire project manager : yeah . marketing : okay ? and here i have the results so you can see that um seventy five per cent of users find most remote controls ugly so we have to find something to make them more more nice , more kind . eighty per cents of users would spend more money when the remote control would look fancy . eighty hundred per cent of users would spend more money when the remote control would look project manager : user interface : marketing : oh to it 's not good . so okay . project manager : we can just keep doing that ? marketing : so it 's not in theory but i i can i can say yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : fifty f uh seventy five per cent of users say they s zap a lot . so mm we have to have a remote control uh very um out for that . uh the buttons have are to be um uh uh like you say resist resisting to to shocks . project manager : okay . marketing : um and fifty per cents of users say they only use uh ten per cents of but of the buttons in the in the remote control . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : so all the buttons we we have to put are have to to have um a use a real use project manager : okay . marketing : and not only or project manager : okay , so fewer buttons maybe would be good ? marketing : yeah . f not many buttons , and uh and uh uh u useable buttons . project manager : okay . user interface : but what kind of remote controls did you look at ? marketing : sorry ? user interface : what kind of task was it ? it was a tv ? marketing : yeah . uh most for most is tv . project manager : yeah . yeah but in fact we it it seems that we are going to make a tv remote control according to new requirements i received from the management bo i will present them in the following . user interface : uh-huh . ah ! good . marketing : 'kay you can go so . project manager : okay . marketing : so there are other frustrations expressed by users , so they said uh they lost uh often the remote control in in the room so they want to have a way to to project manager : yeah . to find it . marketing : to find it . project manager : yeah . marketing : um and um lot of the time they it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote control . project manager : yeah . marketing : so they want something s really very simple and uh easy to use . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . marketing : and uh remote controls are bad for project manager : what is her other side ? marketing : r_s_i_ um user interface : other side yeah , yo wa your wrist marketing : i dunno . project manager : user interface : it i can become painful you can have tendonditis . project manager : oh yeah ? user interface : yeah . project manager : i did not knew that . user interface : if you also up on a computer in a strange position . project manager : okay so you we have to make it uh more ergonomic yeah . user interface : ergonomic . but uh . marketing : yeah . user interface : have to say ha ha . project manager : it 's your job marketing : project manager : oh . marketing : uh . project manager : uh sorry got a message from microsoft . industrial designer : marketing : okay um before that i i have some some some thing uh to say before um project manager : yeah . yeah yeah . marketing : we know that uh the user use uh a lot their um remote control um to to change channel . project manager : yeah . marketing : um and um to to change uh volume selection of the project manager : okay . marketing : and uh and not uh a lot for setting for setting the the channels and uh thing things like that . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so it 's better to put uh uh uh something very easy to set and uh and project manager : yeah . this function should be very uh accessible . marketing : very accessible yes . project manager : yeah , okay . this is the main function okay . marketing : that 's right . so then we asked some questions to them project manager : yeah . marketing : and um we asked this question if they prefer an lcd screen or on their remultific function remotes control project manager : yeah . marketing : and if they mm pay more for speech recognition in remote control project manager : yeah . marketing : and you can go we have here the results of user interface : the first question . marketing : of the questions . so you know that um project manager : marketing : for the younger it 's very important project manager : to have lcd and voice . marketing : to have the s yes and speech recognition . and uh and the others is not so important but uh we know that uh uh people between fifteen and twenty five are people who watch a lot tv and uh who who wh can use a lot this uh . project manager : okay . marketing : so maybe we we can have a speech recognition in . project manager : yeah maybe this this is important . marketing : yeah . project manager : moreover th maybe those uh like those teenager customer could advice their parents to buy this equipment and so we can we have to take care of that point of view i think or so . yeah . marketing : okay and if there is th the conclusion now . so as we say before , i think uh um a remote control lightening in the dark it 's it 's a good thing . project manager : okay . marketing : uh not to many mud buttons like we we said before , project manager : yeah . marketing : e easy to use uh a way to find it easily in the room and uh uh resistant to to shock and to to industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . marketing : an i s no , yeah . project manager : okay these are the user requi marketing : i dunno if you see something else important or industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : i 'm just thinking of some thing . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um we want to have a no , i do n't know if this is a good idea . we want to have a a general remote control for everything . project manager : no no no . we w it seems that we no want to have a tv remote control . from the management board i receive an email . industrial designer : okay . yeah . project manager : cos it would be costly uh and and also it it would take more time to develop to have a a general generic remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah . yeah . user interface : mm i it 's not true i think . the the second claim that you put . industrial designer : no no . project manager : that it would be too long to develop . user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : i think that should be the same . project manager : oh yeah . because i received that email from management board and they seems to tell that that if we want to be on the market as early as possible we should uh focus on tv more where it seems that the market is more important . so maybe it 's a good decision . i dunno . what 's your opinion ? user interface : i have uh i 've no idea i mean i should know a bit more about how fast we can uh design it . marketing : user interface : i do n't think project manager : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : uh yeah . industrial designer : finish tonight . project manager : user interface : yeah . okay . yeah . industrial designer : but basically yeah maybe i can continue with my presentation , it would be al you you project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did user interface think of the ergonomic need for remote controls when discussing the user requirement ? </s> marketing : and uh remote controls are bad for project manager : what is her other side ? marketing : r_s_i_ um user interface : other side yeah , yo wa your wrist marketing : i dunno . project manager : user interface : it i can become painful you can have tendonditis . project manager : oh yeah ? user interface : yeah . project manager : i did not knew that . user interface : if you also up on a computer in a strange position . project manager : okay so you we have to make it uh more ergonomic yeah . user interface : ergonomic . but uh . marketing : yeah . user interface : have to say ha ha . </s>
<s> why did project manager decide to cancel the previous plan for a generic remote control when discussing the user requirement ? </s> industrial designer : i 'm just thinking of some thing . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um we want to have a no , i do n't know if this is a good idea . we want to have a a general remote control for everything . project manager : no no no . we w it seems that we no want to have a tv remote control . from the management board i receive an email . industrial designer : okay . yeah . project manager : cos it would be costly uh and and also it it would take more time to develop to have a a general generic remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah yeah . yeah . user interface : mm i it 's not true i think . the the second claim that you put . industrial designer : no no . project manager : that it would be too long to develop . user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : i think that should be the same . project manager : oh yeah . because i received that email from management board and they seems to tell that that if we want to be on the market as early as possible we should uh focus on tv more where it seems that the market is more important . so maybe it 's a good decision . i dunno . what 's your opinion ? user interface : i have uh i 've no idea i mean i should know a bit more about how fast we can uh design it . marketing : user interface : i do n't think project manager : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : uh yeah . industrial designer : finish tonight . project manager : user interface : yeah . okay . yeah . industrial designer : but basically yeah maybe i can continue with my presentation , it would be al you you project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about industrial designer 's presentation on technical design . </s> user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but i think we have some technical problem or so . so i 'm just going to describe briefly what we do in the remote control . project manager : maybe you can go to the whiteboard if you have some drawings to do industrial designer : if fact project manager : i do n't know . industrial designer : yeah but do i have oh yeah . project manager : industrial designer : now i have enough cables . user interface : like a you feel a bit like a dog with this stuff . project manager : industrial designer : okay so i 'm just going to describe in fact for for a remote control this is quite easy . we just have project manager : user interface : industrial designer : sorry , i 'm going project manager : okay . user interface : project manager : are you okay ? industrial designer : like that . i 'm just going to describe . basically we have a a battery a power supply here . after that we just have um user interface . let 's say that um something like that , which could be um a lcd let 's say or um an array of push button , something like that . push button or a lcd . after that we we feed that into um uh an electronic chip . so i say u_c_ and i feed that to uh l_e_d_ which is uh infrared um which is a an infrared um component . and so what we for for myself this for for us this is quite easy . project manager : u_c_ is the central unit ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay yeah . industrial designer : y it 's a it 's this just a chip which does all the um numerical project manager : computation . industrial designer : numerical computation according to your display . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and so for us uh this is quite easy . we just need to take to define what we want to do when the user interface um wants something and after that we just do the coding to s and send that to to to the not the to the television . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so for us this is quite easy . project manager : okay so this is quite easy . there is not that much constraints . industrial designer : yeah . um we just have to define the processing power that we need uh especially if we want to do some uh speech recognition , in that case that mean that we are going to use more for simple user interface : this will think this will take more time to develop also . industrial designer : yeah of course of course . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and um but for a standard one this is really easy . it 's a question of one month and so on s user interface : soon . project manager : to have a you s you speak about with voi voice control ? industrial designer : no no no no , project manager : standard button one . industrial designer : i say yeah standard uh standard remote control takes maybe uh one month to to do that . user interface : yeah . so the only time problem is the sp voice recognition . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : definitely . user interface : yeah . project manager : so do you have any idea of how long it would take to have voice recognition now ? user interface : ten years . industrial designer : i would say . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : i would say uh about eight months to have the first results . project manager : okay so i it 's a bit long yeah . industrial designer : yeah . i can um . project manager : one month for the standard one with button . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : even if we have a lcd display ? industrial designer : yeah even . i mean that this is really standard devices now . um eight . for uh speech recognition . project manager : okay yeah . okay so we can take this into account . so who think it would be good to go for uh like speech recognition ? user interface : but we do n't have time to market . project manager : yeah it will . industrial designer : and also how much uh i think user interface : i think we should contact management . industrial designer : during the kickoff meeting you say that we we should n't we should n't go up to twelve point five euro per unit marketing : project manager : euros . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : so how many units should we sell to have a user interface : well . uh project manager : well each unit is is sell uh twenty five euros . industrial designer : yeah but how many yeah . user interface : how muc how much do you get how much do you if you buy one million units h no , one hundred thousand units . marketing : user interface : eh chips . we 're gon na need chips right . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . how much will it cost for one hundred thousand ? industrial designer : usually this is less tha at two dollars per chip . user interface : okay . project manager : because we are user interface : so you have any idea for a powerful one that has uh good enough for do speech recognition . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yeah ? okay . industrial designer : we can project manager : it seems that that we want to sell like four million units from the first meeting . user interface : no it does n't . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . four million . project manager : okay . maybe we can uh we can look at the new requirement i receive from the management board and discus discuss all function we want to have . industrial designer : um i just had a question uh do you want to continue with your presenta ? marketing : project manager : yeah i i will continue . industrial designer : is it project manager : well ask your question if you want . industrial designer : um you say that i do n't remember by heart but thirty per cent of the tested people say that 's it 's quite difficult to to to use the remote control . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : do they say that this is difficult but for the same reason or do they have other reason ? to to maybe to keep in mind maybe to access to that menu you should do something like that . marketing : would j uh yeah w i i think they they say that it 's uh difficult to learn how to use it but i when you know how to use it , it 's it 's okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : okay . it 's not intuitive first . industrial designer : and marketing : but yeah . industrial designer : but yeah maybe and what about if we design a remote control which can be configure as you want ? you say that i want , i have six button user interface : mh-hmm . a a lot of people are uh if you have the lcd screen if you can do it completely the way you want because the buttons also look the way you want them industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . but , but also it seems that industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but it will be hard to configure i mean imagine i uh project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so it 's really something for the expert user . so industrial designer : okay . user interface : i mean there are markets and markets . i think the young people are th uh are uh marketing : user interface : christine here said uh you have a industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh it is yeah . so for our young people uh it will be cool , they can be able to use it . th maybe their parents will not but they will configure it . i guess . i do n't know if there is study about that . project manager : yeah . maybe it would be more complex to configure it to be simple than creating a simple product . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . yeah . yeah . </s>
<s> what did user interface think of the easy-to-learn design of remote controls when discussing the technical design ? </s> user interface : and there are another thing is that if we make something that 's simple and easy to use that 's bas to use immediately that means that it will be exactly the same as everything else . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : all right ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : otherwise , if it 's different then of course everybody has somebody has to learn to use it first . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but also we we see that that most people find it find remote controls too complex because they have too many buttons and they mainly use only channels and volume buttons . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so we may just uh make a very easy to use remote control with mainly those buttons user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did project manager think as the main frustrations of designing the remote control when discussing the technical design ? </s> user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : these these are these two points are the main frustrations so maybe if we design something very simple and easy to uh find when lost it will uh add uh a serious competitive advantage without making something too complex and too long to develop . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so but le let us see first the new requirement . so we do n't have to so this this uh is uh is um in the this is in the same direction as we were speaking so we do n't have to make a very complex remote controls to access teletext and stuff like that user interface : but teletext is just one button . project manager : yeah but then you have to you have to define the buttons to surf amongst pages and stuff . user interface : you you just write the write the numbers . project manager : yeah . so well user interface : so will you add with the channel keys , right ? project manager : yeah . so anyway we do n't have to include this feature because it 's it 's not used any more by users , user interface : so . project manager : they prefer to s user interface : i am . i 'm sure that uh it do n't like but uh i do n't see just one button . project manager : yeah . i dunno . if i one button is still one more button . if if if we want to make it very simple we have to reduce number of buttons compared to th to our competitors . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : well anyway i have this point . we can discuss . also um so as as i told before uh it would be better if it 's only for the tv um because we want to be quick on on the market . and then also we have to make very uh uh clear that this uh this remote control is is part of of our products and show our corporate uh logo and and colours on the on the design as well so that uh they identify it as one of our product . so this is the the key point . marketing : project manager : so before uh finishing we can uh define uh what would be the characteristic of the o th of the control of the remote control and which button do we need which function do we want etcetera . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> grad a : hey , you 're not supposed to be drinking in here dude . do we have to read them that slowly ? ok . sounded like a robot . um , this is t when you read the numbers it kind of reminded me of beat poetry . grad d : i tried to go for the ee cummings sort of feeling , but grad a : three three six zero zero . four two zero zero one seven . that 's what i think of when i think of beat poetry . grad c : beat poetry . grad a : you ever seen `` so i married an axe murderer `` ? grad c : uh parts of it . grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : there 's a part wh there 's parts when he 's doing beat poetry . grad c : oh yeah ? grad a : and he talks like that . that 's why i thi that uh probably is why i think of it that way . grad d : hmm . no , i did n't see that movie . who did who made that ? grad a : mike meyers is the guy . grad d : oh . ok . grad a : it - it 's his uh it 's his cute romantic comedy . that 's that 's that 's his cute romantic comedy , yeah . the other thing that 's real funny , i 'll spoil it for you . is when he 's he works in a coffee shop , in san francisco , and uh he 's sitting there on this couch and they bring him this massive cup of espresso , and he 's like `` excuse me i ordered the large espresso ? `` grad d : uh . we 're having , a tiramisu tasting contest this weekend . grad a : wait do are y so you 're trying to decide who 's the best taster of tiramisu ? grad d : no ? um . there was a a a fierce argument that broke out over whose tiramisu might be the best and so we decided to have a contest where those people who claim to make good tiramisu make them , and then we got a panel of impartial judges that will taste do a blind taste and then vote . should be fun . grad a : seems like seems like you could put a s magic special ingredient in , so that everyone know which one was yours . then , if you were to bribe them , you could uh grad d : mm - hmm . well , i was thinking if um y you guys have plans for sunday ? we 're we 're not it 's probably going to be this sunday , but um we 're sort of working with the weather here because we also want to combine it with some barbecue activity where we just fire it up and what whoever brings whatever you know , can throw it on there . so only the tiramisu is free , nothing else . grad a : well , i 'm going back to visit my parents this weekend , so , i 'll be out of town . grad d : so you 're going to the west bay then ? no , grad a : no , the south bay , grad d : south bay ? grad a : yeah . grad d : south bay . grad c : well , i should be free , so . grad d : ok , i 'll let you know . grad a : we are . is nancy s uh gon na show up ? mmm . wonder if these things ever emit a very , like , piercing screech right in your ear ? grad d : they are gon na get more comfortable headsets . they already ordered them . ok . grad c : uh grad d : let 's get started . the uh should i go first , with the uh , um , data . can i have the remote control . thank you . ok . so . on friday we had our wizard test data test and um these are some of the results . this was the introduction . i actually uh , even though liz was uh kind enough to offer to be the first subject , i sort of felt that she knew too much , so i asked uh litonya . just on the spur of the moment , and she was uh kind enough to uh serve as the first subject . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : so , this is what she saw as part of as uh for instr introduction , this is what she had to read aloud . uh , that was really difficult for her and uh grad c : because of l all the names , you mean ? grad d : the names and um this was the uh first three tasks she had to to master after she called the system , and um then of course the system broke down , and those were the l uh uh i should say the system was supposed to break down and then um these were the remaining three tasks that she was going to solve , with a human um . there are here are uh the results . mmm . and i will not we will skip the reading now . d um . and um . the reading was five minutes , exactly . and now comes the this is the phone - in phase of grad c : wait , can i i have a question . so . so there 's no system , right ? like , there was a wizard for both uh both parts , is this right ? grad d : yeah . it was bo it both times the same person . one time , pretending to be a system , one time , to pretending to be a human , which is actually not pretending . grad c : ok . and she did n't grad d : i should grad c : i mean . well . is n't this kind of obvious when it says `` ok now you 're talking to a human `` and then the human has the same voice ? grad d : no no no . we u wait . ok , good question , but uh you you just wait and see . it 's you 're gon na l learn . and um the wizard sometimes will not be audible , because she was actually they there was some uh lapse in the um wireless , we have to move her closer . grad a : is she mispronouncing `` anlage `` ? is it `` anlaga `` or `` anlunga `` grad d : they 're mispronouncing everything , but it 's this is the system breaking down , actually . `` did i call europe ? `` so , this is it . well , if we we um professor b : so , are are you trying to record this meeting ? grad d : there was a strange reflex . i have a headache . i 'm really sort of out of it . ok , the uh lessons learned . the reading needs to be shorter . five minutes is just too long . um , that was already anticipated by some people suggested that if we just have bullets here , they 're gon na not they 're subjects are probably not gon na going to follow the order . and uh she did not . grad c : really ? grad d : she no . grad c : oh , it 's surprising . grad d : she she jumped around quite a bit . professor b : s so if you just number them `` one `` , `` two `` , `` three `` it 's grad d : yeah , and make it sort of clear in the uh professor b : ok . right . grad d : um . we need to so that 's one thing . and we need a better introduction for the wizard . that is something that fey actually thought of a in the last second that sh the system should introduce itself , when it 's called . professor b : mm - hmm . true . grad d : and um , um , another suggestion , by liz , was that we uh , through subjects , switch the tasks . so when when they have task - one with the computer , the next person should have task - one with a human , and so forth . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : so we get nice um data for that . um , we have to refine the tasks more and more , which of course we have n't done at all , so far , in order to avoid this rephrasing , so where , even though w we do n't tell the person `` ask blah - blah - blah - blah - blah `` they still try , or at least litonya tried to um repeat as much of that text as possible . grad c : say exactly what 's on there ? yeah . grad d : and uh my suggestion is of course we we keep the wizard , because i think she did a wonderful job , professor b : great . grad d : in the sense that she responded quite nicely to things that were not asked for , `` how much is a t a bus ticket and a transfer `` so this is gon na happen all the time , we d you can never be sure . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : um . johno pointed out that uh we have maybe a grammatical gender problem there with wizard . so um . grad a : i was n't was n't sure whether wizard was the correct term for uh `` not a man `` . grad c : there 's no female equivalent of grad d : but uh grad a : are you sure ? grad c : no , i do n't know . professor b : right . grad c : not that i know of . grad d : well , there is witch and warlock , grad a : yeah , that 's so @ @ . professor b : right . grad c : yeah , that 's what i was thinking , but grad d : and uh professor b : right . uh . grad d : ok . and um so , some some work needs to be done , but i think we can uh and this , and in case no you had n't seen it , this is what litonya looked at during the uh um while taking the while partaking in the data collection . professor b : ok , great . so first of all , i agree that um we should hire fey , and start paying her . probably pay for the time she 's put in as well . um , do you know exactly how to do that , or is uh lila i mean , you know what exactly do we do to to put her on the payroll in some way ? grad d : i 'm completely clueless , but i 'm willing to learn . professor b : ok . well , you 'll have to . right . so anyway , um so why do n't you uh ask lila and see what she says about you know exactly what we do for someone in th grad d : student - type worker , professor b : well , yeah she 's un she 's not a a student , grad d : or ? professor b : she just graduated but anyway . so i if yeah , i agree , she sounded fine , she a actually was uh , more uh , present and stuff than than she was in conversation , so she did a better job than i would have guessed from just talking to her . grad d : yeah . professor b : so i think that 's great . grad d : this is sort of what i gave her , so this is for example h how to get to the student prison , professor b : yeah . grad d : and i did n't even spell it out here and in some cases i i spelled it out a little bit um more thoroughly , professor b : right . grad d : this is the information on on the low sunken castle , and the amphitheater that never came up , and um , so i if we give her even more um , instruments to work with i think the results are gon na be even better . professor b : oh , yeah , and then of course as she does it she 'll she 'll learn @ @ . so that 's great . um and also if she 's willing to take on the job of organizing all those subjects and stuff that would be wonderful . and , uh she 's actually she 's going to graduate school in a kind of an experimental paradigm , so i think this is all just fine in terms of h her learning things she 's gon na need to know uh , to do her career . so , i my guess is she 'll be r r quite happy to take on that job . and , so grad d : yep . yeah she she did n't explicitly state that so . professor b : great . grad d : and um i told her that we gon na um figure out a meeting time in the near future to refine the tasks and s look for the potential sources to find people . she also agrees that you know if it 's all just gon na be students the data is gon na be less valuable because of that so . professor b : well , as i say there is this s set of people next door , it 's not hard to grad d : we 're already yeah . professor b : uh grad d : however , we may run into a problem with a reading task there . and um , we 'll see . professor b : yeah . we could talk to the people who run it and um see if they have a way that they could easily uh tell people that there 's a task , pays ten bucks or something , grad d : mm - hmm . yeah . professor b : but um you have to be comfortable reading relatively complicated stuff . and and there 'll probably be self - selection to some extent . grad d : mmm . yep . professor b : uh , so that 's good . um . now , i signed us up for the wednesday slot , and part of what we should do is this . so , my idea on that was uh , partly we 'll talk about system stuff for the computer scientists , but partly i did want it to get the linguists involved in some of this issue about what the task is and all um you know , what the dialogue is , and what 's going on linguistically , because to the extent that we can get them contributing , that will be good . so this issue about you know re - formulating things , maybe we can get some of the linguists sufficiently interested that they 'll help us with it , uh , other linguists , if you 're a linguist , but in any case , um , the linguistics students and stuff . so my idea on on wednesday is partly to uh you i mean , what you did today would i is just fine . you just uh do `` this is what we did , and here 's the thing , and here 's s some of the dialogue and and so forth . `` but then , the other thing of course is we should um give the computer scientists some idea of of what 's going on with the system design , and where we think the belief - nets fit in and where the pieces are and stuff like that . is is this make sense to everybody ? yeah . so , i do n't i do n't think it 's worth a lot of work , particularly on your part , to to to make a big presentation . i do n't think you should you do n't have to make any new uh powerpoint or anything . i think we got plenty of stuff to talk about . and , then um just see how a discussion goes . grad d : mm - hmm . sounds good . the uh other two things is um we 've can have johno tell us a little about this professor b : great . grad d : and we also have a l little bit on the interface , m - three - l enhancement , and then um that was it , i think . grad a : so , what i did for this this is uh , a pedagogical belief - net because i was i i took i tried to conceptually do what you were talking about with the nodes that you could expand out so what i did was i took i made these dummy nodes called trajector - in and trajector - out that would isolate the things related to the trajector . and then there were the things with the source and the path and the goal . and i separated them out . and then i um did similar things for our our net to uh with the context and the discourse and whatnot , um , so we could sort of isolate them or whatever in terms of the the top layer . professor b : mm - hmm . grad a : and then the bottom layer is just the mode . so . professor b : so , let 's let 's yeah , i do n't understand it . let 's go slide all the way up so we see what the p the p very bottom looks like , or is that it ? grad a : yeah , there 's just one more node and it says `` mode `` which is the decision between the grad d : yeah . professor b : ok , great . alright . grad a : so basically all i did was i took the last belief - net professor b : so mm - hmm . grad a : and i grouped things according to what how i thought they would fit in to uh image schemas that would be related . and the two that i came up with were trajector - landmark and then source - path - goal as initial ones . professor b : yep . mm - hmm . grad a : and then i said well , uh the trajector would be the person in this case probably . professor b : right , yep . grad a : um , you know , we have we have the concept of what their intention was , whether they were trying to tour or do business or whatever , professor b : right . grad a : or they were hurried . that 's kind of related to that . and then um in terms of the source , the things uh the only things that we had on there i believe were whether oh actually , i kind of , i might have added these cuz i do n't think we talked too much about the source in the old one but uh whether the where i 'm currently at is a landmark might have a bearing on whether grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : or the `` landmark - iness `` of where i 'm currently at . and `` usefulness `` is basi basically means is that an institutional facility like a town hall or something like that that 's not something that you 'd visit for tourist 's tourism 's sake or whatever . `` travel constraints `` would be something like you know , maybe they said they can they only wan na take a bus or something like that , right ? and then those are somewhat related to the path , professor b : mm - hmm . grad a : so that would determine whether we 'd could take we would be telling them to go to the bus stop or versus walking there directly . um , `` goal `` . similar things as the source except they also added whether the entity was closed and whether they have somehow marked that is was the final destination . um , and then if you go up , robert , yeah , so um , in terms of context , what we had currently said was whether they were a businessman or a tourist of some other person . um , discourse was related to whether they had asked about open hours or whether they asked about where the entrance was or the admission fee , or something along those lines . professor b : mm - hmm . grad a : uh , prosody i do n't really i 'm not really sure what prosody means , in this context , so i just made up you know whether whether what they say is or h how they say it is is that . professor b : right , ok . grad a : um , the parse would be what verb they chose , and then maybe how they modified it , in the sense of whether they said `` i need to get there quickly `` or whatever . professor b : mm - hmm . grad a : and um , in terms of world knowledge , this would just basically be like opening and closing times of things , the time of day it is , and whatnot . grad d : what 's `` tourbook `` ? grad a : tourbook ? that would be , i do n't know , the `` landmark - iness `` of things , grad d : mm - hmm . grad a : whether it 's in the tourbook or not . professor b : ch - ch - ch - ch . now . alright , so i understand what 's what you got . i do n't yet understand how you would use it . so let me see if i can ask grad a : well , this is not a working bayes - net . professor b : a s right . no , i understand that , but but um so , what let 's slide back up again and see start at the at the bottom and oop - bo - doop - boop - boop . yeah . so , you could imagine w uh , go ahead , you were about to go up there and point to something . grad a : well i ok , i just say what you were gon na say . professor b : good , do it ! no no , go do it . grad a : uh i i 'd no , i was gon na wait until professor b : oh , ok . so , so if you if we made if we wanted to make it into a a real uh bayes - net , that is , you know , with fill you know , actually f uh , fill it @ @ in , then uh grad a : so we 'd have to get rid of this and connect these things directly to the mode . professor b : well , i do n't that 's an issue . so , um grad a : cuz i do n't understand how it would work otherwise . professor b : well , here 's the problem . and and uh bhaskara and i was talking about this a little earlier today is , if we just do this , we could wind up with a huge uh , combinatoric input to the mode thing . and uh grad a : well i oh yeah , i unders i understand that , i just uh it 's hard for me to imagine how he could get around that . professor b : well , i but that 's what we have to do . ok , so , so , uh . there there are a variety of ways of doing it . uh . let me just mention something that i do n't want to pursue today which is there are technical ways of doing it , uh i i slipped a paper to bhaskara and about noisy - or 's and noisy - maxes and there 're ways to uh sort of back off on the purity of your bayes - net - edness . uh , so . if you co you could ima and i now i do n't know that any of those actually apply in this case , but there is some technology you could try to apply . grad a : so it 's possible that we could do something like a summary node of some sort that ok . professor b : yeah . yeah . and , um so . grad a : so in that case , the sum we 'd have we i mean , these would n't be the summary nodes . we 'd have the summary nodes like where the things were i guess maybe if thi if things were related to business or some other professor b : yeah . grad a : yeah . professor b : so what i was gon na say is is maybe a good at this point is to try to informally i mean , not necessarily in th in this meeting , but to try to informally think about what the decision variables are . so , if you have some bottom line uh decision about which mode , you know , what are the most relevant things . and the other trick , which is not a technical trick , it 's kind of a knowledge engineering trick , is to make the n each node sufficiently narrow that you do n't get this combinatorics . so that if you decided that you could characterize the decision as a trade - off between three factors , whatever they may be , ok ? then you could say `` aha , let 's have these three factors `` , ok ? and maybe a binary version f for each , or some relatively compact decision node just above the final one . and then the question would be if if those are the things that you care about , uh can you make a relatively compact way of getting from the various inputs to the things you care about . so that y so that , you know , you can sort of try to do a knowledge engineering thing given that we 're not gon na screw with the technology and just always use uh sort of orthodox bayes - nets , then we have a knowledge engineering little problem of how do we do that . um and grad a : so what i kind of need to do is to take this one and the old one and merge them together ? professor b : `` eh - eh - eh . `` yeah . grad a : so that professor b : well , mmm , something . i mean , so uh , robert has thought about this problem f for a long time , cuz he 's had these examples kicking around , so he may have some good intuition about you know , what are the crucial things . and , um , i understand where this the uh this is a way of playing with this abs source - path - goal trajector exp uh uh abstraction and and sort of sh displaying it in a particular way . grad a : yeah . professor b : uh , i do n't think our friends uh on wednesday are going to be able to well , maybe they will . well , let me think about whether whether i think we can present this to them or not . um , uh , grad d : well , i think this is still , i mean , ad - hoc . this is sort of th the second version and i i i look at this maybe just as a , you know , a a whatever , uml diagram or , you know , as just a uh screen shot , not really as a bayes - net as john johno said . grad a : we could actually , y yeah draw it in a different way , in the sense that it would make it more abstract . grad d : yeah . but the uh the the nice thing is that you know , it just is a is a visual aid for thinking about these things which has comple clearly have to be specified m more carefully professor b : alright , well , le let me think about this some more , grad d : and uh professor b : and uh see if we can find a way to present this to this linguists group that that is helpful to them . grad d : i mean , ultimately we we may w w we regard this as sort of an exercise in in thinking about the problem and maybe a first version of uh a module , if you wan na call it that , that you can ask , that you can give input and it it 'll uh throw the dice for you , uh throw the die for you , because um i integrated this into the existing smartkom system in in the same way as much the same way we can um sort of have this uh this thing . close this down . so if this is what m - three - l um will look like and what it 'll give us , um and a very simple thing . we have an action that he wants to go from somewhere , which is some type of object , to someplace . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : and this these uh this changed now only um , um it 's doing it twice now because it already did it once . um , we 'll add some action type , which in this case is `` approach `` and could be , you know , more refined uh in many ways . professor b : mm - hmm . good . grad d : or we can uh have something where the uh goal is a public place and it will give us then of course an action type of the type `` enter `` . so this is just based on this one um , on this one feature , and that 's that 's about all you can do . and so in the f if this pla if the object type um here is is a m is a landmark , of course it 'll be um `` vista `` . and um this is about as much as we can do if we do n't w if we want to avoid uh uh a huge combinatorial explosion where we specify `` ok , if it 's this and this but that is not the case `` , and so forth , it just gets really really messy . professor b : ok , i 'm sorry . you 're you 're it was much too quick for me . ok , so let me see if i understand what you 're saying . so , i i do understand that uh you can take the m - three - l and add not and it w and you need to do this , for sure , we have to add , you know , not too much about um object types and stuff , and what i think you did is add some rules of the style that are already there that say `` if it 's of type `` landmark `` , then you take you 're gon na take a picture of it . `` grad d : exactly . professor b : f full stop , i mean , that 's what you do . ev - every landmark you take a picture of , grad d : every public place you enter , and statue you want to go as near as possible . professor b : you enter you approach . ok . uh , and certainly you can add rules like that to the existing smartkom system . and you just did , right ? ok . grad d : yeah . and it it would do us no good . that ultimately . professor b : well . so , s well , and let 's think about this . um , that 's a that 's another kind of baseline case , that 's another sort of thing `` ok , here 's a another kind of minimal uh way of tackling this `` . add extra properties , a deterministic rule for every property you have an action , `` pppt ! `` you do that . um , then the question would be uh now , if that 's all you 're doing , then you can get the types from the ontology , ok ? because that 's all you 're all you 're using is this type the types in the ontology and you 're done . right ? so we do n't we do n't use the discourse , we do n't use the context , we do n't do any of those things . alright , but that 's but that 's ok , and i mean it it 's again a kind of one minimal extension of the existing things . and that 's something the uh smartkom people themselves would they 'd say `` sure , that 's no problem you know , no problem to add types to the ont `` right ? grad d : yeah . no . and this is just in order to exemplify what what we can do very , very easily is , um we have this this silly uh interface and we have the rules that are as banal as of we just saw , and we have our content . now , the content i whi which is sort of what what we see here , which is sort of the vista , schema , source , path , goal , whatever . professor b : yeah . yeah . grad d : this will um be um a job to find ways of writing down image schema , x - schema , constructions , in some some form , and have this be in a in a in the content , loosely called `` constructicon `` . and the rules we want to throw away completely . and um and here is exactly where what 's gon na be replaced with our bayes - net , which is exactly getting the input feeding into here . this decides whether it 's an whether action the the enter , the vista , or the whatever professor b : uh , `` approach `` , you called it , i think this time . grad d : uh approach um construction should be activated , ie just pasted in . professor b : that 's what you said yeah , that 's fine . yeah , but right . but it 's not construction there , it 's action . construction is a d is a different story . grad d : yeah . grad a : right . this is uh so what we 'd be generating would be a reference to a semantic uh like parameters for the for the x - schema ? professor b : for for for yes . yeah . so that that uh i if you had the generalized `` go `` x - schema and you wanted to specialize it to these three ones , then you would have to supply the parameters . grad a : right . professor b : and then uh , although we have n't worried about this yet , you might wan na worry about something that would go to the gis and use that to actually get you know , detailed route planning . so , you know , where do you do take a picture of it and stuff like that . grad a : mm - hmm . professor b : but that 's not it 's not the immediate problem . grad a : right . professor b : but , presumably that that that functionality 's there when when we grad a : so the immediate problem is just deciding w which grad d : aspects of the x - schema to add . professor b : yeah , so the pro the immediate problem is is back t t to what you were what you are doing with the belief - net . grad a : yeah . professor b : you know , uh what are we going to use to make this decision grad a : right and then , once we 've made the decision , how do we put that into the content ? professor b : yeah . right . right . well , that that actually is relatively easy in this case . the harder problem is we decide what we want to use , how are we gon na get it ? and that the the that 's the hardest problem . so , the hardest problem is how are you going to get this information from some combination of the what the person says and the context and the ontology . the h so , i think that 's the hardest problem at the moment is is where are you gon na how are you gon na g get this information . um , and that 's so , getting back to here , uh , we have a d a technical problem with the belief - nets that we we do n't want all the com grad a : there 's just too many factors right now . professor b : too many factors if we if we allow them to just go combinatorially . grad a : right . professor b : so we wan na think about which ones we really care about and what they really most depend on , and can we c you know , clean this this up to the point where it grad a : so what we really wan na do i cuz this is really just the three layer net , we wan na b make it expand it out into more layers basically ? professor b : right . we might . uh , i mean that that 's certainly one thing we can do . uh , it 's true that the way you have this , a lot of the times you have what you 're having is the values rather than the variable . so uh grad a : right . so instead of in instead it should really be just be `` intention `` as a node instead of `` intention business `` or `` intention tour `` . professor b : ok ? so you yeah , right , and then it would have values , uh , `` tour `` , `` business `` , or uh `` hurried `` . grad a : right . professor b : but then but i it still some knowledge design to do , about i how do you wan na break this up , what really matters . grad a : right . professor b : i mean , it 's fine . you know , we have to it 's it 's iterative . we 're gon na have to work with it some . grad a : i think what was going through my mind when i did it was someone could both have a business intention and a touring intention and the probabilities of both of them happening at the same time professor b : well , you you could do that . and it 's perfectly ok to uh insist that that , you know , th um , they add up to one , but that there 's uh that that it does n't have to be one zero zero . grad a : mmm . ok . professor b : ok . so you could have the conditional p so the each of these things is gon na be a a a probability . so whenever there 's a choice , uh so like landmark - ness and usefulness , grad a : well , see i do n't think those would be mutually professor b : ok grad a : it seems like something could both be professor b : absolutely right . and so that you might want to then have those b th - then they may have to be separate . they may not be able to be values of the same variable . grad d : object type , mm - hmm . professor b : so that 's but again , this is this is the sort of knowledge design you have to go through . right . it 's you know , it 's great is is , you know , as one step toward uh toward where we wan na go . grad d : also it strikes me that we we m may want to approach the point where we can sort of try to find a uh , a specification for some interface , here that um takes the normal m - three - l , looks at it . then we discussed in our pre - edu edu meeting um how to ask the ontology , what to ask the ontology um the fact that we can pretend we have one , make a dummy until we get the real one , and so um we we may wan na decide we can do this from here , but we also could do it um you know if we have a a a belief - net interface . so the belief - net takes as input , a vector , right ? of stuff . and it yeah . and um it output is whatever , as well . but this information is just m - three - l , and then we want to look up some more stuff in the ontology and we want to look up some more stuff in the maybe we want to ask the real world , maybe you want to look something up in the grs , but also we definitely want to look up in the dialogue history um some s some stuff . based on we we have uh i was just made some examples from the ontology and so we have for example some information there that the town hall is both a a a building and it has doors and stuff like this , but it is also an institution , so it has a mayor and so forth and so forth and we get relations out of it and once we have them , we can use that information to look in the dialogue history , `` were any of these things that that are part of the town hall as an institution mentioned ? `` , professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : `` were any of these that make the town hall a building mentioned ? `` , grad c : right . grad d : and so forth , and maybe draw some inferences on that . so this may be a a sort of a process of two to three steps before we get our vector , that we feed into the belief - net , professor b : yeah . i think that 's i think that 's exactly right . grad d : and then professor b : there will be rules , but they are n't rules that come to final decisions , they 're rules that gather information for a decision process . yeah , grad d : yeah . professor b : no i think that 's that 's just fine . uh , yeah . so they 'll they presumably there 'll be a thread or process or something that `` agent `` , yeah , `` agent `` , whatever you wan wan na say , yeah , that uh is rule - driven , and can can uh can do things like that . and um there 's an issue about whether there will be that 'll be the same agent and the one that then goes off and uh carries out the decision , so it probably will . my guess is it 'll be the same basic agent that um can go off and get information , run it through a a c this belief - net that turn a crank in the belief - net , that 'll come out with s uh more another vector , ok , which can then be uh applied at what we would call the simulation or action end . so you now know what you 're gon na do and that may actually involve getting more information . so on once you pull that out , it could be that that says `` ah ! now that we know that we gon na go ask the ontology something else . `` ok ? now that we know that it 's a bus trip , ok ? we did n't we did n't need to know beforehand , uh how long the bus trip takes or whatever , but but now that we know that 's the way it 's coming out then we got ta go find out more . grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : so i think that 's ok . grad d : mm - hmm . so this is actually , s if if we were to build something that is um , and , uh , i had one more thing , the it needs to do yeah . i think we i i can come up with a a code for a module that we call the `` cognitive dispatcher `` , which does nothing , but it looks of complect object trees and decides how are there parts missing that need to be filled out , there 's this is maybe something that this module can do , something that this module can do and then collect uh sub - objects and then recombine them and put them together . so maybe this is actually some some useful tool that we can use to rewrite it , and uh get this part , professor b : oh , ok . uh . grad d : then . yeah . professor b : i confess , i 'm still not completely comfortable with the overall story . um . i i this this is not a complaint , this is a promise to do more work . so i 'm gon na hafta think about it some more . um . in particular see what we 'd like to do , and and this has been implicit in the discussion , is to do this in such a way that you get a lot of re - use . so . what you 're trying to get out of this deep co cognitive linguistics is the fact that w if you know about source source , paths and goals , and nnn { comment } all this sort of stuff , that a lot of this is the same , for different tasks . and that uh there 's there 's some some important generalities that you 're getting , so that you do n't take each and every one of these tasks and hafta re - do it . and i do n't yet see how that goes . alright . grad d : there 're no primitives upon which uh professor b : u u what are the primitives , and how do you break this grad d : yeah . professor b : so i y i 'm just just there saying eee { comment } well you i know how to do any individual case , right ? but i do n't yet see what 's the really interesting question is can you use uh deep uh cognitive linguistics to get powerful generalizations . and grad d : maybe we sho should we a add then the `` what 's this ? `` domain ? n i mean , we have to `` how do i get to x `` . then we also have the `` what 's this ? `` domain , where we get some slightly different professor b : could . uh . grad c : right . grad d : um johno , actually , does not allow us to call them `` intentions `` anymore . professor b : yeah . grad d : so he he dislikes the term . professor b : well , i i do n't like the term either , so i have n i uh i i y w i i it uh grad d : but um , i 'm sure the `` what 's this ? `` questions also create some interesting x - schema aspects . professor b : could be . i 'm not a i 'm not op particularly opposed to adding that or any other task , i mean , eventually we 're gon na want a whole range of them . grad d : mm - hmm . grad c : that 's right . professor b : i 'm just saying that i 'm gon na hafta do some sort of first principles thinking about this . i just at the moment do n't know . grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : h no . well , no the bayes the bayes - nets the bayes - nets will be dec specific for each decision . but what i 'd like to be able to do is to have the way that you extract properties , that will go into different bayes - nets , be the uh general . so that if you have sources , you have trajectors and stuff like that , and there 's a language for talking about trajectors , you should n't have to do that differently for uh uh going to something , than for circling it , for uh telling someone else how to go there , grad d : getting out of professor b : whatever it is . so that that , the the decision processes are gon na be different what you 'd really like of course is the same thing you 'd always like which is that you have um a kind of intermediate representation which looks the same o over a bunch of inputs and a bunch of outputs . so all sorts of different tasks and all sorts of different ways of expressing them use a lot of the same mechanism for pulling out what are the fundamental things going on . and that 's that would be the really pretty result . and pushing it one step further , when you get to construction grammar and stuff , what you 'd like to be able to do is say you have this parser which is much fancier than the parser that comes with uh smartkom , i that that actually uses constructions and is able to tell from this construction that there 's uh something about the intent you know , the actual what people wan na do or what they 're referring to and stuff , in independent of whether it about what is this or where is it or something , that you could tell from the construction , you could pull out deep semantic information which you 're gon na use in a general way . so that 's the you might . you might . you might be able to to uh say that this i this is the kind of construction in which the there 's let 's say there 's a uh cont there the the land the construction implies the there 's a con this thing is being viewed as a container . ok . so just from this local construction you know that you 're gon na hafta treat it as a container you might as well go off and get that information . and that may effect the way you process everything else . so if you say `` how do i get into the castle `` ok , then um or , you know , `` what is there in the castle `` or so there 's all sorts of things you might ask that involve the castle as a container and you 'd like to have this orthogonal so that anytime the castle 's referred to as a container , you crank up the appropriate stuff . independent of what the goal is , and independent of what the surrounding language is . grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : alright , so that 's that 's the that 's the thesis level grad d : mm - hmm . professor b : uh grad d : it 's unfortunate also that english has sort of got rid of most of its spatial adverbs because they 're really fancy then , in in for these kinds of analysis . but uh . professor b : well , you have prepositional phrases that grad d : yeah , but they 're they 're easier for parsers . professor b : right . grad d : parsers can pick those up but but the with the spatial adverbs , they have a tough time . because the mean the semantics are very complex in that . professor b : right . grad d : ok , yeah ? i had one more thing . i do n't remember . i just forgot it again . no . oh yeah , b but an architecture like this would also enable us maybe to to throw this away and and replace it with something else , or whatever , so that we have so that this is sort of the representational formats we 're we 're we 're talking about that are independent of the problem , that generalize over those problems , and are oh , t of a higher quality than an any actual whatever um belief - net , or `` x `` that we may use for the decision making , ultimately . should be decoupled , yeah . ok . professor b : right . so , are we gon na be meeting here from now on ? i 'm i 'm happy to do that . we we had talked about it , cuz you have th th the display and everything , that seems fine . grad d : yeah , um , liz also asks whether we 're gon na have presentations every time . i do n't think we will need to do that but it 's professor b : right . grad d : so far i think it was nice as a visual aid for some things and and professor b : oh yeah . no i i think it 's worth it to ass to meet here to bring this , and assume that something may come up that we wan na look at . grad d : yeah . professor b : i mean . why not . grad d : and um . yeah , that was my professor b : she was good . litonya was good . grad d : yeah ? the uh um , she w she was definitely good in the sense that she she showed us some of the weaknesses professor b : right . grad d : and um also the um the fact that she was a real subject you know , is is professor b : right . yeah , and and and yeah and and she took it seriously and stuff l no , it was great . grad d : yeah . professor b : yeah . grad d : so i think that um i mean , w looking just looking at this data , listening to it , what can we get out of it in terms of our problem , for example , is , you know , she actually m said you know , she never s just spoke about entering , she just wanted to get someplace , and she said for buying stuff . nuh ? so this is definitely interesting , and grad c : yeah , right . grad d : um , and in the other case , where she wanted to look at the stuff at the graffiti , also , of course , not in the sentence `` how do you get there ? `` was pretty standard . nuh ? except that there was a nice anaphora , you know , for pointing at what she talked about before , and there she was talking about looking at pictures that are painted inside a wall on walls , so grad c : right . grad d : actually , you 'd need a lot of world knowledge . this would have been a classical um uh `` tango `` , actually . um , because graffiti is usually found on the outside and not on the inside , grad c : yeah . grad d : but ok . so the mistake { comment } would have make a mistake the system would have made a mistake here . </s>
<s> summarize the details about setting up the wizard and recruiting participants </s> grad d : let 's get started . the uh should i go first , with the uh , um , data . can i have the remote control . thank you . ok . so . on friday we had our wizard test data test and um these are some of the results . this was the introduction . i actually uh , even though liz was uh kind enough to offer to be the first subject , i sort of felt that she knew too much , so i asked uh litonya . just on the spur of the moment , and she was uh kind enough to uh serve as the first subject . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : so , this is what she saw as part of as uh for instr introduction , this is what she had to read aloud . uh , that was really difficult for her and uh grad c : because of l all the names , you mean ? grad d : the names and um this was the uh first three tasks she had to to master after she called the system , and um then of course the system broke down , and those were the l uh uh i should say the system was supposed to break down and then um these were the remaining three tasks that she was going to solve , with a human um . there are here are uh the results . mmm . and i will not we will skip the reading now . d um . and um . the reading was five minutes , exactly . and now comes the this is the phone - in phase of grad c : wait , can i i have a question . so . so there 's no system , right ? like , there was a wizard for both uh both parts , is this right ? grad d : yeah . it was bo it both times the same person . one time , pretending to be a system , one time , to pretending to be a human , which is actually not pretending . grad c : ok . and she did n't grad d : i should grad c : i mean . well . is n't this kind of obvious when it says `` ok now you 're talking to a human `` and then the human has the same voice ? grad d : no no no . we u wait . ok , good question , but uh you you just wait and see . it 's you 're gon na l learn . and um the wizard sometimes will not be audible , because she was actually they there was some uh lapse in the um wireless , we have to move her closer . grad a : is she mispronouncing `` anlage `` ? is it `` anlaga `` or `` anlunga `` grad d : they 're mispronouncing everything , but it 's this is the system breaking down , actually . `` did i call europe ? `` so , this is it . well , if we we um professor b : so , are are you trying to record this meeting ? grad d : there was a strange reflex . i have a headache . i 'm really sort of out of it . ok , the uh lessons learned . the reading needs to be shorter . five minutes is just too long . um , that was already anticipated by some people suggested that if we just have bullets here , they 're gon na not they 're subjects are probably not gon na going to follow the order . and uh she did not . grad c : really ? grad d : she no . grad c : oh , it 's surprising . grad d : she she jumped around quite a bit . professor b : s so if you just number them `` one `` , `` two `` , `` three `` it 's grad d : yeah , and make it sort of clear in the uh professor b : ok . right . grad d : um . we need to so that 's one thing . and we need a better introduction for the wizard . that is something that fey actually thought of a in the last second that sh the system should introduce itself , when it 's called . professor b : mm - hmm . true . grad d : and um , um , another suggestion , by liz , was that we uh , through subjects , switch the tasks . so when when they have task - one with the computer , the next person should have task - one with a human , and so forth . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : so we get nice um data for that . um , we have to refine the tasks more and more , which of course we have n't done at all , so far , in order to avoid this rephrasing , so where , even though w we do n't tell the person `` ask blah - blah - blah - blah - blah `` they still try , or at least litonya tried to um repeat as much of that text as possible . grad c : say exactly what 's on there ? yeah . grad d : and uh my suggestion is of course we we keep the wizard , because i think she did a wonderful job , professor b : great . grad d : in the sense that she responded quite nicely to things that were not asked for , `` how much is a t a bus ticket and a transfer `` so this is gon na happen all the time , we d you can never be sure . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : um . johno pointed out that uh we have maybe a grammatical gender problem there with wizard . so um . grad a : i was n't was n't sure whether wizard was the correct term for uh `` not a man `` . grad c : there 's no female equivalent of grad d : but uh grad a : are you sure ? grad c : no , i do n't know . professor b : right . grad c : not that i know of . grad d : well , there is witch and warlock , grad a : yeah , that 's so @ @ . professor b : right . grad c : yeah , that 's what i was thinking , but grad d : and uh professor b : right . uh . grad d : ok . and um so , some some work needs to be done , but i think we can uh and this , and in case no you had n't seen it , this is what litonya looked at during the uh um while taking the while partaking in the data collection . professor b : ok , great . so first of all , i agree that um we should hire fey , and start paying her . probably pay for the time she 's put in as well . um , do you know exactly how to do that , or is uh lila i mean , you know what exactly do we do to to put her on the payroll in some way ? grad d : i 'm completely clueless , but i 'm willing to learn . professor b : ok . well , you 'll have to . right . so anyway , um so why do n't you uh ask lila and see what she says about you know exactly what we do for someone in th grad d : student - type worker , professor b : well , yeah she 's un she 's not a a student , grad d : or ? professor b : she just graduated but anyway . so i if yeah , i agree , she sounded fine , she a actually was uh , more uh , present and stuff than than she was in conversation , so she did a better job than i would have guessed from just talking to her . grad d : yeah . professor b : so i think that 's great . grad d : this is sort of what i gave her , so this is for example h how to get to the student prison , professor b : yeah . grad d : and i did n't even spell it out here and in some cases i i spelled it out a little bit um more thoroughly , professor b : right . grad d : this is the information on on the low sunken castle , and the amphitheater that never came up , and um , so i if we give her even more um , instruments to work with i think the results are gon na be even better . professor b : oh , yeah , and then of course as she does it she 'll she 'll learn @ @ . so that 's great . um and also if she 's willing to take on the job of organizing all those subjects and stuff that would be wonderful . and , uh she 's actually she 's going to graduate school in a kind of an experimental paradigm , so i think this is all just fine in terms of h her learning things she 's gon na need to know uh , to do her career . so , i my guess is she 'll be r r quite happy to take on that job . and , so grad d : yep . yeah she she did n't explicitly state that so . professor b : great . grad d : and um i told her that we gon na um figure out a meeting time in the near future to refine the tasks and s look for the potential sources to find people . she also agrees that you know if it 's all just gon na be students the data is gon na be less valuable because of that so . professor b : well , as i say there is this s set of people next door , it 's not hard to grad d : we 're already yeah . professor b : uh grad d : however , we may run into a problem with a reading task there . and um , we 'll see . professor b : yeah . we could talk to the people who run it and um see if they have a way that they could easily uh tell people that there 's a task , pays ten bucks or something , grad d : mm - hmm . yeah . </s>
<s> what did grad d and grad c discuss about who was acting as the computer and wizard ? </s> grad c : wait , can i i have a question . so . so there 's no system , right ? like , there was a wizard for both uh both parts , is this right ? grad d : yeah . it was bo it both times the same person . one time , pretending to be a system , one time , to pretending to be a human , which is actually not pretending . grad c : ok . and she did n't grad d : i should grad c : i mean . well . is n't this kind of obvious when it says `` ok now you 're talking to a human `` and then the human has the same voice ? </s>
<s> what did the professor think about hiring fey ? </s> professor b : ok , great . so first of all , i agree that um we should hire fey , and start paying her . probably pay for the time she 's put in as well . um , do you know exactly how to do that , or is uh lila i mean , you know what exactly do we do to to put her on the payroll in some way ? grad d : i 'm completely clueless , but i 'm willing to learn . professor b : ok . well , you 'll have to . right . so anyway , um so why do n't you uh ask lila and see what she says about you know exactly what we do for someone in th grad d : student - type worker , professor b : well , yeah she 's un she 's not a a student , grad d : or ? professor b : she just graduated but anyway . so i if yeah , i agree , she sounded fine , she a actually was uh , more uh , present and stuff than than she was in conversation , so she did a better job than i would have guessed from just talking to her . grad d : yeah . professor b : so i think that 's great . grad d : this is sort of what i gave her , so this is for example h how to get to the student prison , professor b : yeah . grad d : and i did n't even spell it out here and in some cases i i spelled it out a little bit um more thoroughly , professor b : right . grad d : this is the information on on the low sunken castle , and the amphitheater that never came up , and um , so i if we give her even more um , instruments to work with i think the results are gon na be even better . professor b : oh , yeah , and then of course as she does it she 'll she 'll learn @ @ . so that 's great . um and also if she 's willing to take on the job of organizing all those subjects and stuff that would be wonderful . and , uh she 's actually she 's going to graduate school in a kind of an experimental paradigm , so i think this is all just fine in terms of h her learning things she 's gon na need to know uh , to do her career . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about controlling size of combinatorial input </s> professor b : well , here 's the problem . and and uh bhaskara and i was talking about this a little earlier today is , if we just do this , we could wind up with a huge uh , combinatoric input to the mode thing . and uh grad a : well i oh yeah , i unders i understand that , i just uh it 's hard for me to imagine how he could get around that . professor b : well , i but that 's what we have to do . ok , so , so , uh . there there are a variety of ways of doing it . uh . let me just mention something that i do n't want to pursue today which is there are technical ways of doing it , uh i i slipped a paper to bhaskara and about noisy - or 's and noisy - maxes and there 're ways to uh sort of back off on the purity of your bayes - net - edness . uh , so . if you co you could ima and i now i do n't know that any of those actually apply in this case , but there is some technology you could try to apply . grad a : so it 's possible that we could do something like a summary node of some sort that ok . professor b : yeah . yeah . and , um so . grad a : so in that case , the sum we 'd have we i mean , these would n't be the summary nodes . we 'd have the summary nodes like where the things were i guess maybe if thi if things were related to business or some other professor b : yeah . grad a : yeah . professor b : so what i was gon na say is is maybe a good at this point is to try to informally i mean , not necessarily in th in this meeting , but to try to informally think about what the decision variables are . so , if you have some bottom line uh decision about which mode , you know , what are the most relevant things . and the other trick , which is not a technical trick , it 's kind of a knowledge engineering trick , is to make the n each node sufficiently narrow that you do n't get this combinatorics . so that if you decided that you could characterize the decision as a trade - off between three factors , whatever they may be , ok ? then you could say `` aha , let 's have these three factors `` , ok ? and maybe a binary version f for each , or some relatively compact decision node just above the final one . and then the question would be if if those are the things that you care about , uh can you make a relatively compact way of getting from the various inputs to the things you care about . so that y so that , you know , you can sort of try to do a knowledge engineering thing given that we 're not gon na screw with the technology and just always use uh sort of orthodox bayes - nets , then we have a knowledge engineering little problem of how do we do that . um and grad a : so what i kind of need to do is to take this one and the old one and merge them together ? professor b : `` eh - eh - eh . `` yeah . grad a : so that professor b : well , mmm , something . i mean , so uh , robert has thought about this problem f for a long time , cuz he 's had these examples kicking around , so he may have some good intuition about you know , what are the crucial things . and , um , i understand where this the uh this is a way of playing with this abs source - path - goal trajector exp uh uh abstraction and and sort of sh displaying it in a particular way . grad a : yeah . professor b : uh , i do n't think our friends uh on wednesday are going to be able to well , maybe they will . well , let me think about whether whether i think we can present this to them or not . um , uh , grad d : well , i think this is still , i mean , ad - hoc . this is sort of th the second version and i i i look at this maybe just as a , you know , a a whatever , uml diagram or , you know , as just a uh screen shot , not really as a bayes - net as john johno said . grad a : we could actually , y yeah draw it in a different way , in the sense that it would make it more abstract . grad d : yeah . but the uh the the nice thing is that you know , it just is a is a visual aid for thinking about these things which has comple clearly have to be specified m more carefully professor b : alright , well , le let me think about this some more , grad d : and uh professor b : and uh see if we can find a way to present this to this linguists group that that is helpful to them . grad d : i mean , ultimately we we may w w we regard this as sort of an exercise in in thinking about the problem and maybe a first version of uh a module , if you wan na call it that , that you can ask , that you can give input and it it 'll uh throw the dice for you , uh throw the die for you , because um i integrated this into the existing smartkom system in in the same way as much the same way we can um sort of have this uh this thing . close this down . so if this is what m - three - l um will look like and what it 'll give us , um and a very simple thing . we have an action that he wants to go from somewhere , which is some type of object , to someplace . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : and this these uh this changed now only um , um it 's doing it twice now because it already did it once . um , we 'll add some action type , which in this case is `` approach `` and could be , you know , more refined uh in many ways . professor b : mm - hmm . good . grad d : or we can uh have something where the uh goal is a public place and it will give us then of course an action type of the type `` enter `` . so this is just based on this one um , on this one feature , and that 's that 's about all you can do . and so in the f if this pla if the object type um here is is a m is a landmark , of course it 'll be um `` vista `` . and um this is about as much as we can do if we do n't w if we want to avoid uh uh a huge combinatorial explosion where we specify `` ok , if it 's this and this but that is not the case `` , and so forth , it just gets really really messy . professor b : ok , i 'm sorry . you 're you 're it was much too quick for me . ok , so let me see if i understand what you 're saying . so , i i do understand that uh you can take the m - three - l and add not and it w and you need to do this , for sure , we have to add , you know , not too much about um object types and stuff , and what i think you did is add some rules of the style that are already there that say `` if it 's of type `` landmark `` , then you take you 're gon na take a picture of it . `` grad d : exactly . professor b : f full stop , i mean , that 's what you do . ev - every landmark you take a picture of , grad d : every public place you enter , and statue you want to go as near as possible . professor b : you enter you approach . ok . uh , and certainly you can add rules like that to the existing smartkom system . and you just did , right ? ok . grad d : yeah . and it it would do us no good . that ultimately . professor b : well . so , s well , and let 's think about this . um , that 's a that 's another kind of baseline case , that 's another sort of thing `` ok , here 's a another kind of minimal uh way of tackling this `` . add extra properties , a deterministic rule for every property you have an action , `` pppt ! `` you do that . um , then the question would be uh now , if that 's all you 're doing , then you can get the types from the ontology , ok ? because that 's all you 're all you 're using is this type the types in the ontology and you 're done . right ? so we do n't we do n't use the discourse , we do n't use the context , we do n't do any of those things . alright , but that 's but that 's ok , and i mean it it 's again a kind of one minimal extension of the existing things . and that 's something the uh smartkom people themselves would they 'd say `` sure , that 's no problem you know , no problem to add types to the ont `` right ? grad d : yeah . no . and this is just in order to exemplify what what we can do very , very easily is , um we have this this silly uh interface and we have the rules that are as banal as of we just saw , and we have our content . now , the content i whi which is sort of what what we see here , which is sort of the vista , schema , source , path , goal , whatever . professor b : yeah . yeah . grad d : this will um be um a job to find ways of writing down image schema , x - schema , constructions , in some some form , and have this be in a in a in the content , loosely called `` constructicon `` . and the rules we want to throw away completely . and um and here is exactly where what 's gon na be replaced with our bayes - net , which is exactly getting the input feeding into here . this decides whether it 's an whether action the the enter , the vista , or the whatever professor b : uh , `` approach `` , you called it , i think this time . grad d : uh approach um construction should be activated , ie just pasted in . professor b : that 's what you said yeah , that 's fine . yeah , but right . but it 's not construction there , it 's action . construction is a d is a different story . grad d : yeah . grad a : right . this is uh so what we 'd be generating would be a reference to a semantic uh like parameters for the for the x - schema ? professor b : for for for yes . yeah . so that that uh i if you had the generalized `` go `` x - schema and you wanted to specialize it to these three ones , then you would have to supply the parameters . grad a : right . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about controlling the size of the combinatorial input ? </s> professor b : well , here 's the problem . and and uh bhaskara and i was talking about this a little earlier today is , if we just do this , we could wind up with a huge uh , combinatoric input to the mode thing . and uh grad a : well i oh yeah , i unders i understand that , i just uh it 's hard for me to imagine how he could get around that . professor b : well , i but that 's what we have to do . ok , so , so , uh . there there are a variety of ways of doing it . uh . let me just mention something that i do n't want to pursue today which is there are technical ways of doing it , uh i i slipped a paper to bhaskara and about noisy - or 's and noisy - maxes and there 're ways to uh sort of back off on the purity of your bayes - net - edness . uh , so . if you co you could ima and i now i do n't know that any of those actually apply in this case , but there is some technology you could try to apply . grad a : so it 's possible that we could do something like a summary node of some sort that ok . professor b : yeah . yeah . and , um so . grad a : so in that case , the sum we 'd have we i mean , these would n't be the summary nodes . we 'd have the summary nodes like where the things were i guess maybe if thi if things were related to business or some other professor b : yeah . grad a : yeah . professor b : so what i was gon na say is is maybe a good at this point is to try to informally i mean , not necessarily in th in this meeting , but to try to informally think about what the decision variables are . so , if you have some bottom line uh decision about which mode , you know , what are the most relevant things . and the other trick , which is not a technical trick , it 's kind of a knowledge engineering trick , is to make the n each node sufficiently narrow that you do n't get this combinatorics . so that if you decided that you could characterize the decision as a trade - off between three factors , whatever they may be , ok ? then you could say `` aha , let 's have these three factors `` , ok ? and maybe a binary version f for each , or some relatively compact decision node just above the final one . it was much too quick for me . ok , so let me see if i understand what you 're saying . so , i i do understand that uh you can take the m - three - l and add not and it w and you need to do this , for sure , we have to add , you know , not too much about um object types and stuff , and what i think you did is add some rules of the style that are already there that say `` if it 's of type `` landmark `` , then you take you 're gon na take a picture of it . `` grad d : exactly . professor b : f full stop , i mean , that 's what you do . ev - every landmark you take a picture of , grad d : every public place you enter , and statue you want to go as near as possible . professor b : you enter you approach . ok . uh , and certainly you can add rules like that to the existing smartkom system . and you just did , right ? ok . grad d : yeah . and it it would do us no good . that ultimately . professor b : well . so , s well , and let 's think about this . um , that 's a that 's another kind of baseline case , that 's another sort of thing `` ok , here 's a another kind of minimal uh way of tackling this `` . add extra properties , a deterministic rule for every property you have an action , `` pppt ! `` you do that . um , then the question would be uh now , if that 's all you 're doing , then you can get the types from the ontology , ok ? because that 's all you 're all you 're using is this type the types in the ontology and you 're done . right ? so we do n't we do n't use the discourse , we do n't use the context , we do n't do any of those things . </s>
<s> what did grad d think about managing the size of the combinatorial input ? </s> grad d : i mean , ultimately we we may w w we regard this as sort of an exercise in in thinking about the problem and maybe a first version of uh a module , if you wan na call it that , that you can ask , that you can give input and it it 'll uh throw the dice for you , uh throw the die for you , because um i integrated this into the existing smartkom system in in the same way as much the same way we can um sort of have this uh this thing . close this down . so if this is what m - three - l um will look like and what it 'll give us , um and a very simple thing . we have an action that he wants to go from somewhere , which is some type of object , to someplace . professor b : mm - hmm . grad d : and this these uh this changed now only um , um it 's doing it twice now because it already did it once . um , we 'll add some action type , which in this case is `` approach `` and could be , you know , more refined uh in many ways . professor b : mm - hmm . good . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting </s> grad c : yeah , we had a long discussion about how much w how easy we want to make it for people to bleep things out . so morgan wants to make it hard . phd d : it it does n't grad c : did did did it ? i did n't even check yesterday whether it was moving . phd d : it did n't move yesterday either when i started it . so i do n't know if it does n't like both of us grad c : channel three ? channel three ? phd d : you know , i discovered something yesterday on these , um , wireless ones . grad b : channel two . grad c : mm - hmm ? phd d : you can tell if it 's picking up breath noise and stuff . grad c : yeah , it has a little indicator on it on the af . phd d : mm - hmm . so if you yeah , if you breathe under breathe and then you see af go off , then you know it 's p picking up your mouth noise . phd f : oh , that 's good . cuz we have a lot of breath noises . grad c : yep . test . phd f : in fact , if you listen to just the channels of people not talking , it 's like `` @ @ `` . it 's very disgust grad c : what ? did you see hannibal recently or something ? phd f : sorry . exactly . it 's very disconcerting . ok . so , um , i was gon na try to get out of here , like , in half an hour , um , cuz i really appreciate people coming , and the main thing that i was gon na ask people to help with today is to give input on what kinds of database format we should use in starting to link up things like word transcripts and annotations of word transcripts , so anything that transcribers or discourse coders or whatever put in the signal , with time - marks for , like , words and phone boundaries and all the stuff we get out of the forced alignments and the recognizer . so , we have this , um i think a starting point is clearly the the channelized output of dave gelbart 's program , which don brought a copy of , grad c : yeah . yeah , i 'm i 'm familiar with that . i mean , we i sort of already have developed an xml format for this sort of stuff . phd f : um , which phd d : can i see it ? grad c : and so the only question is it the sort of thing that you want to use or not ? have you looked at that ? i mean , i had a web page up . phd f : right . so , grad c : so phd f : i actually mostly need to be able to link up , or i it 's it 's a question both of what the representation is and grad c : you mean , this i guess i am gon na be standing up and drawing on the board . phd f : ok , yeah . so you should , definitely . grad c : um , so so it definitely had that as a concept . so tha it has a single time - line , phd f : mm - hmm . grad c : and then you can have lots of different sections , each of which have i ds attached to it , and then you can refer from other sections to those i ds , if you want to . so that , um so that you start with with a time - line tag . `` time - line `` . and then you have a bunch of times . i do n't e i do n't remember exactly what my notation was , phd a : oh , i remember seeing an example of this . grad c : but it phd f : right , right . phd a : yeah . grad c : yeah , `` t equals one point three two `` , uh and then i i also had optional things like accuracy , and then `` id equals t one , uh , one seven `` . and then , i also wanted to to be i to be able to not specify specifically what the time was and just have a stamp . phd f : right . grad c : yeah , so these are arbitrary , assigned by a program , not not by a user . so you have a whole bunch of those . and then somewhere la further down you might have something like an utterance tag which has `` start equals t - seventeen , end equals t - eighteen `` . so what that 's saying is , we know it starts at this particular time . we do n't know when it ends . right ? but it ends at this t - eighteen , which may be somewhere else . we say there 's another utterance . we do n't know what the t time actually is but we know that it 's the same time as this end time . you know , thirty - eight , whatever you want . phd a : so you 're essentially defining a lattice . grad c : ok . yes , exactly . phd a : yeah . grad c : and then , uh and then these also have i ds . right ? so you could you could have some sort of other other tag later in the file that would be something like , um , oh , i do n't know , { comment } uh , `` noise - type equals door - slam `` . you know ? and then , uh , you could either say `` time equals a particular time - mark `` or you could do other sorts of references . so or or you might have a prosody `` prosody `` right ? d ? t ? d ? t ? t ? phd f : it 's an o instead of an i , but the d is good . grad c : you like the d ? that 's a good d . phd f : yeah . grad c : um , you know , so you could have some sort of type here , and then you could have , um the utterance that it 's referring to could be u - seventeen or something like that . phd f : ok . so , i mean , that seems that seems g great for all of the encoding of things with time and , grad c : oh , well . phd f : um i i guess my question is more , uh , what d what do you do with , say , a forced alignment ? phd a : how - how phd f : i mean you 've got all these phone labels , and what do you do if you just conceptually , if you get , um , transcriptions where the words are staying but the time boundaries are changing , cuz you 've got a new recognition output , or s sort of what 's the , um , sequence of going from the waveforms that stay the same , the transcripts that may or may not change , and then the utterance which where the time boundaries that may or may not change ? phd a : oh , that 's that 's actually very nicely handled here because you could you could all you 'd have to change is the , um , time - stamps in the time - line without without , uh , changing the i ds . phd f : um . and you 'd be able to propagate all of the the information ? grad c : right . that 's , the who that 's why you do that extra level of indirection . so that you can just change the time - line . phd a : except the time - line is gon na be huge . if you say phd f : yeah , phd a : suppose you have a phone - level alignment . phd f : yeah , especially at the phone - level . phd a : you 'd have you 'd have phd f : the we we have phone - level backtraces . grad c : yeah , this i do n't think i would do this for phone - level . i think for phone - level you want to use some sort of binary representation phd f : um grad c : because it 'll be too dense otherwise . phd f : ok . so , if you were doing that and you had this sort of companion , uh , thing that gets called up for phone - level , uh , what would that look like ? grad c : i would use just an existing an existing way of doing it . phd f : how would you ? phd a : mmm . but but why not use it for phone - level ? it 's just a matter of it 's just a matter of it being bigger . but if you have you know , barring memory limitations , or uh i w i mean this is still the m grad c : it 's parsing limitations . i do n't want to have this text file that you have to read in the whole thing to do something very simple for . phd a : oh , no . you would use it only for purposes where you actually want the phone - level information , i 'd imagine . phd f : so you could have some file that configures how much information you want in your in your xml or something . grad c : right . i mean , you 'd y phd a : you grad c : i i am imagining you 'd have multiple versions of this depending on the information that you want . phd f : cuz th it does get very bush with right . grad c : um , i 'm just what i 'm wondering is whether i think for word - level , this would be ok . phd f : yeah . grad c : for word - level , it 's alright . phd f : yeah . definitely . phd a : mm - hmm . grad c : for lower than word - level , you 're talking about so much data that i just i do n't know . i do n't know if that phd f : i mean , we actually have so , one thing that don is doing , is we 're we 're running for every frame , you get a pitch value , phd d : lattices are big , too . phd f : and not only one pitch value but different kinds of pitch values grad c : yeah , i mean , for something like that i would use p - file phd f : depending on grad c : or or any frame - level stuff i would use p - file . phd f : meaning ? grad c : uh , that 's a well , or something like it . it 's ics uh , icsi has a format for frame - level representation of features . um . phd f : ok . that you could call that you would tie into this representation with like an id . grad c : right . right . or or there 's a there 's a particular way in xml to refer to external resources . phd f : and ok . grad c : so you would say `` refer to this external file `` . um , so that external file would n't be in phd f : so that might that might work . phd d : but what what 's the advantage of doing that versus just putting it into this format ? grad c : more compact , which i think is is better . phd d : uh - huh . grad c : i mean , if you did it at this phd f : i mean these are long meetings and with for every frame , grad c : you do n't want to do it with that anything at frame - level you had better encode binary phd f : um grad c : or it 's gon na be really painful . phd a : or you just compre i mean , i like text formats . um , b you can always , uh , g - zip them , and , um , you know , c decompress them on the fly if y if space is really a concern . phd d : yeah , i was thi i was thinking the advantage is that we can share this with other people . grad c : well , but if you 're talking about one per frame , you 're talking about gigabyte - size files . you 're gon na actually run out of space in your filesystem for one file . phd f : these are big files . these are really i mean grad c : right ? because you have a two - gigabyte limit on most o ss . phd a : right , ok . i would say ok , so frame - level is probably not a good idea . but for phone - level stuff it 's perfectly phd f : and th it 's phd a : like phones , or syllables , or anything like that . phd f : phones are every five frames though , so . or something like that . phd a : but but but most of the frames are actually not speech . so , you know , people do n't v look at it , words times the average the average number of phones in an english word is , i do n't know , { comment } five maybe ? phd f : yeah , but we actually phd a : so , look at it , t number of words times five . that 's not that not phd f : oh , so you mean pause phones take up a lot of the long pause phones . phd a : exactly . yeah . phd f : yeah . ok . that 's true . but you do have to keep them in there . y yeah . grad c : so i think it it 's debatable whether you want to do phone - level in the same thing . but i think , a anything at frame - level , even p - file , is too verbose . phd f : ok . so grad c : i would use something tighter than p - files . phd f : do you are you familiar with it ? i have n't seen this particular format , phd a : i mean , i 've i 've used them . phd f : but phd a : i do n't know what their structure is . i 've forgot what the str phd d : but , wait a minute , p - file for each frame is storing a vector of cepstral or plp values , grad c : it 's whatever you want , actually . phd d : right ? right . grad c : so that what 's nice about the p - file it i built into it is the concept of frames , utterances , sentences , that sort of thing , that structure . and then also attached to it is an arbitrary vector of values . and it can take different types . so it th they do n't all have to be floats . you know , you can have integers and you can have doubles , and all that sort of stuff . phd f : so that that sounds that sounds about what i w grad c : um . right ? and it has a header it has a header format that describes it to some extent . so , the only problem with it is it 's actually storing the utterance numbers and the frame numbers in the file , even though they 're always sequential . and so it does waste a lot of space . but it 's still a lot tighter than than ascii . and we have a lot of tools already to deal with it . phd f : you do ? ok . is there some documentation on this somewhere ? grad c : yeah , there 's a ton of it . man - pages and , uh , source code , and me . phd f : ok , great . so , i mean , that sounds good . i i was just looking for something i 'm not a database person , but something sort of standard enough that , you know , if we start using this we can give it out , other people can work on it , grad c : yeah , it 's not standard . phd f : or { comment } is it ? grad c : i mean , it 's something that we developed at icsi . but , uh phd f : but it 's been used here grad c : but it 's been used here phd f : and people 've grad c : and and , you know , we have a well - configured system that you can distribute for free , and phd d : i mean , it must be the equivalent of whatever you guys used to store feat your computed features in , right ? phd a : yeah , th we have actually , we we use a generalization of the the sphere format . um , but yeah , so there is something like that but it 's , um , probably not as sophist grad c : well , what does h t k do for features ? phd d : and i think there 's grad c : or does it even have a concept of features ? phd a : they ha it has its own i mean , entropic has their own feature format that 's called , like , s - sd or some so sf or something like that . phd f : yeah . grad c : i 'm just wondering , would it be worth while to use that instead ? phd d : yeah . phd f : yeah . th - this is exactly the kind of decision it 's just whatever phd d : but , i mean , people do n't typically share this kind of stuff , right ? phd a : right . grad c : they generate their own . phd d : i mean yeah . phd f : actually , i i just you know , we we 've done this stuff on prosodics and three or four places have asked for those prosodic files , and we just have an ascii , uh , output of frame - by - frame . grad c : ah , right . phd f : which is fine , but it gets unwieldy to go in and and query these files with really huge files . grad c : right . phd f : i mean , we could do it . i was just thinking if there 's something that where all the frame values are grad c : and a and again , if you have a if you have a two - hour - long meeting , that 's gon na phd f : hmm ? they 're they 're fair they 're quite large . grad c : yeah , i mean , they 'd be emo enormous . phd f : and these are for ten - minute switchboard conversations , grad c : right . phd f : and so it 's doable , it 's just that you can only store a feature vector at frame - by - frame and it does n't have any kind of , phd d : is is the sharing part of this a pretty important consideration phd f : um phd d : or does that just sort of , uh a nice thing to have ? phd f : i i do n't know enough about what we 're gon na do with the data . but i thought it would be good to get something that we can that other people can use or adopt for their own kinds of encoding . and just , i mean we have to use some we have to make some decision about what to do . grad c : yeah . phd f : and especially for the prosody work , what what it ends up being is you get features from the signal , and of course those change every time your alignments change . so you re - run a recognizer , you want to recompute your features , um , and then keep the database up to date . grad c : right . phd f : or you change a word , or you change a utterance boundary segment , which is gon na happen a lot . and so i wanted something where all of this can be done in a elegant way and that if somebody wants to try something or compute something else , that it can be done flexibly . um , it does n't have to be pretty , it just has to be , you know , easy to use , and grad c : yeah , the other thing we should look at atlas , the nist thing , and see if they have anything at that level . phd f : uh grad c : i mean , i 'm not sure what to do about this with atlas , because they chose a different route . i chose something that th - there are sort of two choices . your your file format can know about know that you 're talking about language and speech , which is what i chose , and time , or your file format can just be a graph representation . and then the application has to impose the structure on top . so what it looked like atlas chose is , they chose the other way , which was their file format is just nodes and links , and you have to interpret what they mean yourself . phd f : and why did you not choose that type of approach ? grad c : uh , because i knew that we were doing speech , and i thought it was better if you 're looking at a raw file to be t for the tags to say `` it 's an utterance `` , as opposed to the tag to say `` it 's a link `` . phd f : ok . ok . grad c : so , but phd f : but other than that , are they compatible ? i mean , you could sort of grad c : yeah , they 're reasonably compatible . phd f : i mean , you you could phd d : you could probably translate between them . phd f : yeah , that 's w so , grad c : so , well , the other thing is if we choose to use atlas , which maybe we should just do , we should just throw this out before we invest a lot of time in it . phd f : ok . i do n't so this is what the meeting 's about , grad c : yeah . phd f : just sort of how to um , cuz we need to come up with a database like this just to do our work . and i actually do n't care , as long as it 's something useful to other people , what we choose . grad c : yeah . phd f : so maybe it 's maybe oth you know , if if you have any idea of how to choose , cuz i do n't . grad c : the only thing yeah . phd a : do they already have tools ? grad c : i mean , i i chose this for a couple reasons . one of them is that it 's easy to parse . you do n't need a full xml parser . it 's very easy to just write a perl script to parse it . phd a : as long as uh each tag is on one line . grad c : exactly . exactly . which i always do . phd f : and you can have as much information in the tag as you want , right ? grad c : well , i have it structured . right ? so each type tag has only particular items that it can take . phd f : can you but you can add to those structures if you grad c : sure . if you have more information . so what what nist would say is that instead of doing this , you would say something like `` link start equals , um , you know , some node id , phd f : yeah . so grad c : end equals some other node id `` , and then `` type `` would be `` utterance `` . you know , so it 's very similar . phd f : so why would it be a a waste to do it this way if it 's similar enough that we can always translate it ? phd d : it probably would n't be a waste . it would mean that at some point if we wanted to switch , we 'd just have to translate everything . grad c : write a translator . but it se since they are developing a big phd f : but it but that sounds phd d : but that 's i do n't think that 's a big deal . phd f : as long as it is grad c : they 're developing a big infrastructure . and so it seems to me that if if we want to use that , we might as well go directly to what they 're doing , rather than phd a : if we want to do they already have something that 's that would be useful for us in place ? phd d : yeah . see , that 's the question . i mean , how stable is their are they ready to go , grad c : the i looked at it phd d : or ? grad c : the last time i looked at it was a while ago , probably a year ago , uh , when we first started talking about this . and at that time at least it was still not very complete . and so , specifically they did n't have any external format representation at that time . they just had the sort of conceptual node uh , annotated transcription graph , which i really liked . and that 's exactly what this stuff is based on . since then , they 've developed their own external file format , which is , uh , you know , this sort of s this sort of thing . um , and apparently they 've also developed a lot of tools , but i have n't looked at them . maybe i should . phd a : we should we should find out . phd f : i mean , would the tools would the tools run on something like this , if you can translate them anyway ? grad c : um , th what would would would what would worry me is that maybe we might miss a little detail phd a : it 's a hassle phd f : i mean , that i guess it 's a question that phd a : if phd f : uh , yeah . grad c : that would make it very difficult to translate from one to the other . phd a : i i think if it 's conceptually close , and they already have or will have tools that everybody else will be using , i mean , it would be crazy to do something s you know , separate that grad c : yeah , we might as well . yep . phd f : yeah . grad c : so i 'll i 'll take a closer look at it . phd f : actually , so it 's that that would really be the question , is just what you would feel is in the long run the best thing . grad c : and right . phd f : cuz once we start , sort of , doing this i do n't we do n't actually have enough time to probably have to rehash it out again grad c : the yep . the other thing the other way that i sort of established this was as easy translation to and from the transcriber format . phd f : and s right . right . grad c : but phd f : i mean , i like this . this is sort of intuitively easy to actually r read , as easy it could as it could be . but , i suppose that as long as they have a type here that specifies `` utt `` , um , grad c : it 's almost the same . phd f : it 's yeah , close enough that grad c : the the the the point is with this , though , is that you ca n't really add any supplementary information . right ? so if you suddenly decide that you want phd f : you have to make a different type . grad c : yeah . you 'd have to make a different type . phd f : so well , if you look at it and um , i guess in my mind i do n't know enough jane would know better , { comment } about the types of annotations and and but i imagine that those are things that would well , you guys mentioned this , { comment } that could span any it could be in its own channel , it could span time boundaries of any type , grad c : right . phd f : it could be instantaneous , things like that . um , and then from the recognition side we have backtraces at the phone - level . grad c : right . phd f : if if it can handle that , it could handle states or whatever . and then at the prosody - level we have frame sort of like cepstral feature files , uh , like these p - files or anything like that . and that 's sort of the world of things that i and then we have the aligned channels , of course , grad c : right . phd a : it seems to me you want to keep the frame - level stuff separate . phd f : and yeah . phd a : and then phd f : i i definitely agree and i wanted to find actually a f a nicer format or a maybe a more compact format than what we used before . grad c : right . phd f : just cuz you 've got ten channels or whatever and two hours of a meeting . it 's it 's a lot of grad c : huge . phd a : now now how would you how would you represent , um , multiple speakers in this framework ? were you would just represent them as you would have like a speaker tag or something ? grad c : there 's a spea speaker tag up at the top which identifies them and then each utt the way i had it is each turn or each utterance , { comment } i do n't even remember now , had a speaker id tag attached to it . phd a : mm - hmm . ok . grad c : and in this format you would have a different tag , which which would , uh , be linked to the link . so so somewhere else you would have another thing that would be , phd f : yeah . grad c : um let 's see , would it be a node or a link ? um and so so this one would have , um , an id is link { comment } link seventy - four or something like that . phd a : mm - hmm . grad c : and then somewhere up here you would have a link that that , uh , you know , was referencing l - seventy - four and had speaker adam . phd a : is i ? grad c : you know , or something like that . phd f : actually , it 's the channel , i think , that phd a : well , channel or speaker or whatever . phd f : i mean , w yeah , channel is what the channelized output out phd a : it does n't grad c : this is n't quite right . phd a : right . grad c : i have to look at it again . phd f : yeah , but phd a : but but so how in the nist format do we express a hierarchical relationship between , um , say , an utterance and the words within it ? so how do you tell that these are the words that belong to that utterance ? grad c : um , you would have another structure lower down than this that would be saying they 're all belonging to this id . phd a : mm - hmm . phd d : so each thing refers to the utterance that it belongs to . grad c : right . and then each utterance could refer to a turn , phd d : so it 's it 's not hi it 's sort of bottom - up . grad c : and each turn could refer to something higher up . phd f : and what if you actually have so right now what you have as utterance , um , the closest thing that comes out of the channelized is the stuff between the segment boundaries that the transcribers put in or that thilo put in , which may or may not actually be , like , a s it 's usually not um , the beginning and end of a sentence , say . grad c : well , that 's why i did n't call it `` sentence `` . phd f : so , right . um , so it 's like a segment or something . grad c : yeah . phd f : so , i mean , i assume this is possible , that if you have someone annotates the punctuation or whatever when they transcribe , you can say , you know , from for from the c beginning of the sentence to the end of the sentence , from the annotations , this is a unit , even though it never actually i it 's only a unit by virtue of the annotations at the word - level . grad c : sure . i mean , so you would you would have yet another tag . phd f : and then that would get a tag somehow . grad c : you 'd have another tag which says this is of type `` sentence `` . phd f : ok . ok . grad c : and , what phd f : but it 's just not overtly in the um , cuz this is exactly the kind of phd a : so phd f : i think that should be possible as long as the but , uh , what i do n't understand is where the where in this type of file that would be expressed . grad c : right . you would have another tag somewhere . it 's well , there 're two ways of doing it . phd f : s so it would just be floating before the sentence or floating after the sentence without a time - mark . grad c : you could have some sort of link type type equals `` sentence `` , and id is `` s - whatever `` . and then lower down you could have an utterance . so the type is `` utterance `` equals `` utt `` . and you could either say that no . i do n't know phd a : so here 's the thing . grad c : i take that back . phd a : um grad c : can you can you say that this is part of this , phd f : see , cuz it 's it 's phd d : you would just have a r grad c : or do you say this is part of this ? i think phd d : you would refer up to the sentence . phd f : but they 're phd a : well , the thing phd f : they 're actually overlapping each other , sort of . grad c : so phd a : the thing is that some something may be a part of one thing for one purpose and another thing of another purpose . grad c : right . phd f : you have to have another type then , i guess . phd a : s um , well , s let 's let 's ta so let 's grad c : well , i think i 'm i think w i had better look at it again phd f : yeah . phd a : so grad c : because i i 'm phd f : ok . ok . phd a : y so for instance @ @ { comment } sup grad c : there 's one level there 's one more level of indirection that i 'm forgetting . phd a : suppose you have a word sequence and you have two different segmentations of that same word sequence . f say , one segmentation is in terms of , um , you know , uh , sentences . and another segmentation is in terms of , um , i do n't know , { comment } prosodic phrases . and let 's say that they do n't nest . so , you know , a prosodic phrase may cross two sentences or something . grad c : right . phd a : i do n't know if that 's true or not but let 's as phd f : well , it 's definitely true with the segment . phd a : right . phd f : that 's what i exactly what i meant by the utterances versus the sentence could be sort of phd a : yeah . so , you want to be s you want to say this this word is part of that sentence and this prosodic phrase . phd f : yeah . phd a : but the phrase is not part of the sentence phd f : yeah . phd a : and neither is the sentence part of the phrase . phd f : right . grad c : i i 'm pretty sure that you can do that , but i 'm forgetting the exact level of nesting . phd a : so , you would have to have two different pointers from the word up one level up , one to the sent grad c : so so what you would end up having is a tag saying `` here 's a word , and it starts here and it ends here `` . phd a : right . grad c : and then lower down you would say `` here 's a prosodic boundary and it has these words in it `` . and lower down you 'd have `` here 's a sentence , phd a : right . phd f : an - right . grad c : and it has these words in it `` . phd f : so you would be able to go in and say , you know , `` give me all the words in the bound in the prosodic phrase and give me all the words in the `` yeah . grad c : so i think that 's that would wor phd f : um , ok . grad c : let me look at it again . phd a : mm - hmm . the the o the other issue that you had was , how do you actually efficiently extract , um find and extract information in a structure of this type ? phd f : that 's good . phd a : so you gave some examples like phd f : well , uh , and , i mean , you guys might i do n't know if this is premature because i suppose once you get the representation you can do this , but the kinds of things i was worried about is , phd a : no , that 's not clear . phd f : uh phd a : i mean , yeah , you c sure you can do it , phd f : well , ok . so i if it phd a : but can you do it sort of l l you know , it phd f : i i mean , i ca n't do it , but i can um , phd a : y y you got ta you got ta do this you you 're gon na want to do this very quickly grad c : well phd a : or else you 'll spend all your time sort of searching through very complex data structures phd f : right . you 'd need a p sort of a paradigm for how to do it . but an example would be `` find all the cases in which adam started to talk while andreas was talking and his pitch was rising , andreas 's pitch `` . that kind of thing . grad c : right . i mean , that 's gon na be is the rising pitch a feature , or is it gon na be in the same file ? phd f : well , the rising pitch will never be hand - annotated . so the all the prosodic features are going to be automatically grad c : but the i mean , that 's gon na be hard regardless , phd f : so they 're gon na be in those grad c : right ? because you 're gon na have to write a program that goes through your feature file and looks for rising pitches . phd a : yeah . phd f : so right . so normally what we would do is we would say `` what do we wan na assign rising pitch to ? `` are we gon na assign it to words ? are we gon na just assign it to sort of when it 's rising we have a begin - end rise representation ? but suppose we dump out this file and we say , uh , for every word we just classify it as , w you know , rise or fall or neither ? grad c : ok . well , in that case you would add that to this format phd f : so we would basically be sort of , um , taking the format and enriching it with things that we wan na query in relation to the words that are already in the file , grad c : right . phd f : and then querying it . phd a : you want sort of a grep that 's that works at the structural on the structural representation . grad c : you have that . there 's a standard again in xml , specifically for searching xml documents structured x - xml documents , where you can specify both the content and the structural position . phd a : yeah , but it 's it 's not clear that that 's that 's relative to the structure of the xml document , phd f : if phd a : not to the structure of what you 're representing in the document . grad c : you use it as a tool . you use it as a tool , not an end - user . it 's not an end - user thing . phd a : right . grad c : it 's it 's you would use that to build your tool to do that sort of search . phd a : right . be because here you 're specifying a lattice . phd f : uh phd a : so the underlying that 's the underlying data structure . and you want to be able to search in that lattice . phd f : but as long as the grad c : it 's a graph , but phd a : that 's different from searching through the text . phd f : but it seems like as long as the features that grad c : well , no , no , no . the whole point is that the text and the lattice are isomorphic . they represent each other completely . phd a : um grad c : so that i mean th phd f : that 's true if the features from your acoustics or whatever that are not explicitly in this are at the level of these types . that that if you can do that grad c : yeah , but that 's gon na be the trouble no matter what . right ? no matter what format you choose , you 're gon na have the trou you 're gon na have the difficulty of relating the the frame - level features phd f : that 's right . that 's true . that 's why i was trying to figure out what 's the best format for this representation . and it 's still gon na be it 's still gon na be , uh , not direct . grad c : right . phd f : you know , it or another example was , you know , uh , where in the language where in the word sequence are people interrupting ? so , i guess that one 's actually easier . phd d : what about what about , um , the idea of using a relational database to , uh , store the information from the xml ? so you would have xml basically would uh , you you could use the xml to put the data in , and then when you get data out , you put it back in xml . so use xml as sort of the the transfer format , grad c : transfer . phd d : uh , but then you store the data in the database , which allows you to do all kinds of good search things in there . grad c : the , uh one of the things that atlas is doing is they 're trying to define an api which is independent of the back store , so that , uh , you could define a single api and the the storage could be flat xml files or a database . phd d : mm - hmm . grad c : my opinion on that is for the s sort of stuff that we 're doing , { comment } i suspect it 's overkill to do a full relational database , that , um , just a flat file and , uh , search tools i bet will be enough . phd a : but grad c : but that 's the advantage of atlas , is that if we actually take decide to go that route completely and we program to their api , then if we wanted to add a database later it would be pretty easy . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd f : it seems like the kind of thing you 'd do if i do n't know , if people start adding all kinds of s bells and whistles to the data . and so that might be i mean , it 'd be good for us to know to use a format where we know we can easily , um , input that to some database if other people are using it . something like that . grad c : i guess i 'm just a little hesitant to try to go whole hog on sort of the the whole framework that that nist is talking about , with atlas and a database and all that sort of stuff , phd f : so grad c : cuz it 's a big learning curve , just to get going . whereas if we just do a flat file format , sure , it may not be as efficient but everyone can program in perl and and use it . right ? phd a : but this is grad c : so , as opposed to phd a : i i 'm still , um , not convinced that you can do much at all on the text on the flat file that that you know , the text representation . e because the text representation is gon na be , uh , not reflecting the structure of of your words and annotations . it 's just it 's grad c : well , if it 's not representing it , then how do you recover it ? of course it 's representing it . phd a : no . you you have to what you have to do is you have to basically grad c : that 's the whole point . phd a : y yeah . you can use perl to read it in and construct a internal representation that is essentially a lattice . but , the and then phd d : yeah . grad c : well , that was a different point . phd a : right . grad c : right ? so what i was saying is that phd a : but that 's what you 'll have to do . bec - be grad c : for perl if you want to just do perl . if you wanted to use the structured xml query language , that 's a different thing . and it 's a set of tools that let you specify given the d - ddt dtd of the document , um , what sorts of structural searches you want to do . so you want to say that , you know , you 're looking for , um , a tag within a tag within a particular tag that has this particular text in it , um , and , uh , refers to a particular value . and so the point is n't that an end - user , who is looking for a query like you specified , would n't program it in this language . what you would do is , someone would build a tool that used that as a library . so that they so that you would n't have to construct the internal representations yourself . phd f : is a see , i think the kinds of questions , at least in the next to the end of this year , are there may be a lot of different ones , but they 'll all have a similar nature . they 'll be looking at either a word - level prosodic , uh , an a value , grad c : mm - hmm . phd f : like a continuous value , like the slope of something . but you know , we 'll do something where we some kind of data reduction where the prosodic features are sort o uh , either at the word - level or at the segment - level , grad c : right . phd f : or or something like that . they 're not gon na be at the phone - level and they 're no not gon na be at the frame - level when we get done with sort of giving them simpler shapes and things . and so the main thing is just being able well , i guess , the two goals . um , one that chuck mentioned is starting out with something that we do n't have to start over , that we do n't have to throw away if other people want to extend it for other kinds of questions , grad c : right . phd f : and being able to at least get enough , uh , information out on where we condition the location of features on information that 's in the kind of file that you put up there . and that would that would do it , grad c : yeah . i think that there are quick and dirty solutions , phd f : i mean , for me . grad c : and then there are long - term , big - infrastructure solutions . and so we want to try to pick something that lets us do a little bit of both . phd f : in the between , right . and especially that the representation does n't have to be thrown away , grad c : um right . phd f : even if your tools change . grad c : and so it seems to me that i mean , i have to look at it again to see whether it can really do what we want , but if we use the atlas external file representation , um , it seems like it 's rich enough that you could do quick tools just as i said in perl , and then later on if we choose to go up the learning curve , we can use the whole atlas inter infrastructure , phd f : yeah . i mean , that sounds good to me . grad c : which has all that built in . phd f : i i do n't so if if you would l look at that and let us know what you think . grad c : sure . phd f : i mean , i think we 're sort of guinea pigs , cuz i i want to get the prosody work done but i do n't want to waste time , you know , getting the phd a : oh , maybe phd f : yeah ? phd a : um grad c : well , i would n't wait for the formats , because anything you pick we 'll be able to translate to another form . phd a : well ma well , maybe you should actually look at it yourself too to get a sense of what it is you 'll you 'll be dealing with , because , um , you know , adam might have one opinion but you might have another , so grad b : yeah . phd f : yeah , definitely . phd a : i think the more eyes look at this the better . phd f : especially if there 's , e um you know , if someone can help with at least the the setup of the right grad c : hi , jane . phd f : oh , hi . the right representation , then , i you know , i hope it wo n't we do n't actually need the whole full - blown thing to be ready , grad c : can you oh , well . phd f : so . um , so maybe if you guys can look at it and sort of see what , grad b : yeah . grad c : sure . phd f : um i think we 're we 're we 're actually just grad c : we 're about done . phd f : yeah , wrapping up , but , um yeah , sorry , it 's a uh short meeting , but , um well , i do n't know . is there anything else , like i mean that helps me a lot , grad c : well , i think the other thing we might want to look at is alternatives to p - file . phd f : but grad c : i mean , th the reason i like p - file is i 'm already familiar with it , we have expertise here , and so if we pick something else , there 's the learning - curve problem . but , i mean , it is just something we developed at icsi . phd a : is there an is there an ip - api ? grad c : and so yeah . there 's an api for it . and , uh , phd a : there used to be a problem that they get too large , grad c : a bunch of libraries , p - file utilities . phd a : and so basically the uh the filesystem would n't grad c : well , that 's gon na be a problem no matter what . you have the two - gigabyte limit on the filesystem size . and we definitely hit that with broadcast news . phd a : maybe you could extend the api to , uh , support , uh , like splitting up , you know , conceptually one file into smaller files on disk so that you can essentially , you know , have arbitrarily long f grad c : yep . most of the tools can handle that . phd a : yeah . grad c : so that we did n't do it at the api - level . we did it at the t tool - level . that that most many of them can s you can specify several p - files and they 'll just be done sequentially . phd f : so , i guess , yeah , if if you and don can if you can show him the p - file stuff and see . grad c : sure . phd f : so this would be like for the f - zero grad b : true . grad c : i mean , if you do `` man p - file `` or `` apropos p - file `` , you 'll see a lot . grad b : i 've used the p - file , i think . i 've looked at it at least , briefly , i think when we were doing s something . phd a : what does the p stand for anyway ? grad c : i have no idea . grad b : oh , in there . grad c : i did n't de i did n't develop it . you know , it was i think it was dave johnson . so it 's all part of the quicknet library . it has all the utilities for it . phd a : no , p - files were around way before quicknet . p - files were were around when w with , um , rap . grad c : oh , were they ? phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : right ? phd f : it 's like the history of icsi . phd a : you worked with p - files . grad c : mm - hmm . phd f : like phd a : i worked with p - files . phd f : yeah ? phd d : i do n't remember what the `` p `` is , though . grad c : but there are ni they 're the quicknet library has a bunch of things in it to handle p - files , phd a : yeah . grad c : so it works pretty well . phd f : and that is n't really , i guess , as important as the the main i do n't know what you call it , the the main sort of word - level grad c : neither do i . phd d : probably stands for `` phil `` . phil kohn . grad c : it 's a phil file ? phd d : yeah . that 's my guess . phd f : huh . ok . well , that 's really useful . i mean , this is exactly the kind of thing that i wanted to settle . um , so grad c : yeah , i 've been meaning to look at the atlas stuff again anyway . phd f : great . grad c : so , just keep phd f : yeah . i guess it 's also sort of a political deci i mean , if if you feel like that 's a community that would be good to tie into anyway , then it 's sounds like it 's worth doing . grad c : yeah , i think it it w phd a : j i think there 's grad c : and , w uh , as i said , i what i did with this stuff i based it on theirs . it 's just they had n't actually come up with an external format yet . so now that they have come up with a format , it does n't it seems pretty reasonable to use it . but let me look at it again . phd f : ok , great . grad c : as i said , that phd f : cuz we actually can start grad c : there 's one level there 's one more level of indirection and i 'm just blanking on exactly how it works . i got ta look at it again . phd f : i mean , we can start with , um , i guess , this input from dave 's , which you had printed out , the channelized input . cuz he has all of the channels , you know , with the channels in the tag and stuff like that . grad c : yeah , i 've seen it . phd f : so that would be i directly , grad c : yep . easy easy to map . phd f : um yeah . and so then it would just be a matter of getting making sure to handle the annotations that are , you know , not at the word - level and , um , t to import the grad b : where are those annotations coming from ? phd f : well , right now , i g jane would would grad c : mm - hmm . phd f : yeah . postdoc e : are you talking about the overlap a annotations ? phd f : yeah , any kind of annotation that , like , is n't already there . uh , you know , anything you can envision . postdoc e : yeah . so what i was imagining was um , so dave says we can have unlimited numbers of green ribbons . and so put , uh , a a green ribbon on for an overlap code . and since we w we i i think it 's important to remain flexible regarding the time bins for now . and so it 's nice to have however , you know , you want to have it , uh , time time uh , located in the discourse . so , um , if we if we tie the overlap code to the first word in the overlap , then you 'll have a time - marking . it wo n't it 'll be independent of the time bins , however these e evolve , shrink , or whatever , increase , or also , you could have different time bins for different purposes . and having it tied to the first word in an overlap segment is unique , uh , you know , anchored , clear . and it would just end up on a separate ribbon . grad c : right . postdoc e : so the overlap coding is gon na be easy with respect to that . you look puzzled . phd d : i i just i do n't quite understand what these things are . postdoc e : what , the codes themselves ? phd d : well , th overlap codes . postdoc e : or the ? phd d : i 'm not sure what that @ @ grad c : well , i mean , is that phd d : it probably does n't matter . postdoc e : well , we do n't have to go into the codes . grad c : i mean , it does n't . phd d : no , i d postdoc e : we do n't have to go into the codes . grad c : i mean , that not for the topic of this meeting . postdoc e : but let me just no . w the idea is just to have a separate green ribbon , you know , and and and let 's say that this is a time bin . there 's a word here . this is the first word of an overlapping segment of any length , overlapping with any other , uh , word uh , i segment of any length . and , um , then you can indicate that this here was perhaps a ch a backchannel , or you can say that it was , um , a usurping of the turn , or you can you know , any any number of categories . but the fact is , you have it time - tagged in a way that 's independent of the , uh , sp particular time bin that the word ends up in . if it 's a large unit or a small unit , or phd a : mm - hmm . postdoc e : we sh change the boundaries of the units , it 's still unique and and , uh , fits with the format , phd f : right . postdoc e : flexible , all that . phd a : um , it would be nice um , eh , gr this is sort of r regarding uh , uh it 's related but not directly germane to the topic of discussion , but , when it comes to annotations , um , you often find yourself in the situation where you have different annotations of the same , say , word sequence . ok ? postdoc e : yeah . phd a : and sometimes the word sequences even differ slightly because they were edited s at one place but not the other . postdoc e : yeah . phd a : so , once this data gets out there , some people might start annotating this for , i do n't know , dialogue acts or , um , you know , topics or what the heck . you know , there 's a zillion things that people might annotate this for . and the only thing that is really sort of common among all the versi the various versions of this data is the word sequence , or approximately . phd f : or the time . phd a : or the times . but , see , if you 'd annotate dialogue acts , you do n't necessarily want to or topics you do n't really want to be dealing with time - marks . phd f : i guess . phd a : you 'd it 's much more efficient for them to just see the word sequence , right ? phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : i mean , most people are n't as sophisticated as as we are here with , you know , uh , time alignments and stuff . so so the the the point is grad c : should should we mention some names on the people who are n ? phd a : right . so , um , the p my point is that you 're gon na end up with , uh , word sequences that are differently annotated . and you want some tool , uh , that is able to sort of merge these different annotations back into a single , uh , version . ok ? um , and we had this problem very massively , uh , at sri when we worked , uh , a while back on , uh well , on dialogue acts as well as , uh , you know , um , what was it ? uh , phd f : well , all the switchboard in it . phd a : utterance types . there 's , uh , automatic , uh , punctuation and stuff like that . phd f : yeah . phd a : because we had one set of annotations that were based on , uh , one version of the transcripts with a particular segmentation , and then we had another version that was based on , uh , a different s slightly edited version of the transcripts with a different segmentation . so , we had these two different versions which were you know , you could tell they were from the same source but they were n't identical . so it was extremely hard to reliably merge these two back together to correlate the information from the different annotations . grad c : yep . i i do n't see any way that file formats are gon na help us with that . it 's it 's all a question of semantic . phd a : no . but once you have a file format , i can imagine writing not personally , but someone writing a tool that is essentially an alignment tool , um , that mediates between various versions , phd f : mm - hmm . grad c : yeah . phd a : and uh , sort of like th uh , you know , you have this thing in unix where you have , uh , diff . grad c : diff . phd f : w - diff or diff . phd a : there 's the , uh , diff that actually tries to reconcile different two diffs f { comment } based on the same original . phd f : yeah . postdoc e : is it s - diff ? phd a : something like that , um , but operating on these lattices that are really what 's behind this uh , this annotation format . so grad c : there 's actually a diff library you can use to do things like that that so you have different formats . phd f : you could definitely do that with the phd a : so somewhere in the api you would like to have like a merge or some some function that merges two two versions . grad c : yeah , i think it 's gon na be very hard . any sort of structured anything when you try to merge is really , really hard phd a : right . grad c : because you ha i the hard part is n't the file format . the hard part is specifying what you mean by `` merge `` . phd a : is exactly . grad c : and that 's very difficult . phd f : but the one thing that would work here actually for i that is more reliable than the utterances is the the speaker ons and offs . so if you have a good , grad c : but this is exactly what i mean , is that that the problem i phd f : um yeah . you just have to know wha what to tie it to . grad c : yeah , exactly . the problem is saying `` what are the semantics , phd f : and grad c : what do you mean by `` merge `` ? `` phd f : right , right . phd a : right . so so just to let you know what we where we kluged it by , uh , doing uh , by doing hhh . both were based on words , so , bo we have two versions of the same words intersp you know , sprinkled with with different tags for annotations . grad c : and then you did diff . phd a : and we did diff . exactly ! grad c : yeah , that 's just what i thought . phd a : and that 's how grad c : that 's just wh how i would have done it . phd a : yeah . but , you know , it had lots of errors and things would end up in the wrong order , and so forth . uh , so , um , if you had a more uh , it it was a kluge because it was basically reducing everything to uh , to uh , uh , to textual alignment . grad c : a textual phd a : um , so phd f : but , d is n't that something where whoever if if the people who are making changes , say in the transcripts , cuz this all happened when the transcripts were different ye um , if they tie it to something , like if they tied it to the acoustic segment if they you know what i mean ? then or if they tied it to an acoustic segment and we had the time - marks , that would help . but the problem is exactly as adam said , that you get , you know , y you do n't have that information or it 's lost in the merge somehow , postdoc e : well , can i ask one question ? phd f : so postdoc e : it it seems to me that , um , we will have o an official version of the corpus , which will be only one one version in terms of the words where the words are concerned . we 'd still have the the merging issue maybe if coding were done independently of the phd a : and you 're gon na get that postdoc e : but but phd a : because if the data gets out , people will do all kinds of things to it . and , uh , s you know , several years from now you might want to look into , um , the prosody of referring expressions . and someone at the university of who knows where has annotated the referring expressions . so you want to get that annotation and bring it back in line with your data . grad c : right . but unfortunately they 've also hand - edited it . postdoc e : ok , then phd f : but they 've also exactly . and so that 's exactly what we should somehow when you distribute the data , say that you know , that have some way of knowing how to merge it back in and asking people to try to do that . phd a : yeah . right . postdoc e : well , then the phd d : what 's what 's wrong with doing times ? i postdoc e : i agree . that was what i was wondering . phd f : uh , yeah , time is the grad c : well , postdoc e : time is unique . you were saying that you did n't think we should phd f : time is passing ! phd a : time time times are ephemeral . postdoc e : andreas was saying yeah . grad c : what if they have n't notated with them , times ? phd f : yeah . he he 's a language modeling person , though . phd a : um grad c : so so imagine i think his his example is a good one . imagine that this person who developed the corpus of the referring expressions did n't include time . phd a : mm - hmm . yeah . grad c : he included references to words . phd a : yeah . grad c : he said that at this word is when when it happened . postdoc e : well , then phd a : or she . grad c : or she . postdoc e : but then could n't you just indirectly figure out the time tied to the word ? phd f : but still they exactly . grad c : sure . but what if what if they change the words ? phd f : yeah . postdoc e : not well , but you 'd have some anchoring point . he could n't have changed all the words . phd d : but can they change the words without changing the time of the word ? grad c : sure . but they could have changed it a little . the the point is , that that they may have annotated it off a word transcript that is n't the same as our word transcript , so how do you merge it back in ? i understand what you 're saying . phd a : mmm . mm - hmm . grad c : and i i guess the answer is , um , it 's gon na be different every time . it 's j it 's just gon na be postdoc e : yeah . phd f : yeah . grad c : i it 's exactly what i said before , phd f : you only know the boundaries of the grad c : which is that `` what do you mean by `` merge `` ? `` so in this case where you have the words and you do n't have the times , well , what do you mean by `` merge `` ? if you tell me what you mean , i can write a program to do it . phd f : right . right . you can merge at the level of the representation that the other person preserved and that 's it . grad c : right . and that 's about all you can do . phd f : and beyond that , all you know is is relative ordering and sometimes even that is wrong . grad c : so so in so in this one you would have to do a best match between the word sequences , phd a : mm - hmm . grad c : extract the times f from the best match of theirs to yours , and use that . phd f : and then infer that their time - marks are somewhere in between . grad c : right . phd f : yeah , exactly . postdoc e : but it could be that they just uh , i mean , it could be that they chunked they they lost certain utterances and all that stuff , grad c : right , exactly . so it could get very , very ugly . postdoc e : or phd f : definitely . postdoc e : yeah . phd f : definitely . alright . postdoc e : that 's interesting . phd f : well , i guess , w i i did n't want to keep people too long and adam wanted t people i 'll read the digits . if anyone else offers to , that 'd be great . and phd a : ah , well . grad c : yeah . phd f : if not , i guess phd a : for th for the for the benefit of science we 'll read the digits . grad c : more digits , the better . ok , this is phd f : thanks thanks a lot . it 's really helpful . i mean , adam and don will sort of meet and i think that 's great . very useful . go next . phd d : scratch that . postdoc e : o three </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the current xml format to link up different components in data </s> phd f : i was gon na try to get out of here , like , in half an hour , um , cuz i really appreciate people coming , and the main thing that i was gon na ask people to help with today is to give input on what kinds of database format we should use in starting to link up things like word transcripts and annotations of word transcripts , so anything that transcribers or discourse coders or whatever put in the signal , with time - marks for , like , words and phone boundaries and all the stuff we get out of the forced alignments and the recognizer . so , we have this , um i think a starting point is clearly the the channelized output of dave gelbart 's program , which don brought a copy of , grad c : yeah . yeah , i 'm i 'm familiar with that . i mean , we i sort of already have developed an xml format for this sort of stuff . phd f : um , which phd d : can i see it ? grad c : and so the only question is it the sort of thing that you want to use or not ? have you looked at that ? i mean , i had a web page up . phd f : right . so , grad c : so phd f : i actually mostly need to be able to link up , or i it 's it 's a question both of what the representation is and grad c : you mean , this i guess i am gon na be standing up and drawing on the board . phd f : ok , yeah . so you should , definitely . grad c : um , so so it definitely had that as a concept . so tha it has a single time - line , phd f : mm - hmm . grad c : and then you can have lots of different sections , each of which have i ds attached to it , and then you can refer from other sections to those i ds , if you want to . so that , um so that you start with with a time - line tag . `` time - line `` . and then you have a bunch of times . i do n't e i do n't remember exactly what my notation was , phd a : oh , i remember seeing an example of this . grad c : but it phd f : right , right . phd a : yeah . grad c : yeah , `` t equals one point three two `` , uh and then i i also had optional things like accuracy , and then `` id equals t one , uh , one seven `` . and then , i also wanted to to be i to be able to not specify specifically what the time was and just have a stamp . phd f : right . grad c : yeah , so these are arbitrary , assigned by a program , not not by a user . so you have a whole bunch of those . and then somewhere la further down you might have something like an utterance tag which has `` start equals t - seventeen , end equals t - eighteen `` . so what that 's saying is , we know it starts at this particular time . we do n't know when it ends . right ? but it ends at this t - eighteen , which may be somewhere else . we say there 's another utterance . we do n't know what the t time actually is but we know that it 's the same time as this end time . you know , thirty - eight , whatever you want . phd a : so you 're essentially defining a lattice . grad c : ok . yes , exactly . phd a : yeah . grad c : and then , uh and then these also have i ds . right ? so you could you could have some sort of other other tag later in the file that would be something like , um , oh , i do n't know , { comment } uh , `` noise - type equals door - slam `` . you know ? and then , uh , you could either say `` time equals a particular time - mark `` or you could do other sorts of references . so or or you might have a prosody `` prosody `` right ? d ? t ? d ? t ? t ? phd f : it 's an o instead of an i , but the d is good . grad c : you like the d ? that 's a good d . phd f : yeah . grad c : um , you know , so you could have some sort of type here , and then you could have , um the utterance that it 's referring to could be u - seventeen or something like that . phd f : ok . so , i mean , that seems that seems g great for all of the encoding of things with time and , grad c : oh , well . phd f : um i i guess my question is more , uh , what d what do you do with , say , a forced alignment ? phd a : how - how phd f : i mean you 've got all these phone labels , and what do you do if you just conceptually , if you get , um , transcriptions where the words are staying but the time boundaries are changing , cuz you 've got a new recognition output , or s sort of what 's the , um , sequence of going from the waveforms that stay the same , the transcripts that may or may not change , and then the utterance which where the time boundaries that may or may not change ? phd a : oh , that 's that 's actually very nicely handled here because you could you could all you 'd have to change is the , um , time - stamps in the time - line without without , uh , changing the i ds . phd f : um . and you 'd be able to propagate all of the the information ? grad c : right . that 's , the who that 's why you do that extra level of indirection . so that you can just change the time - line . phd a : except the time - line is gon na be huge . if you say phd f : yeah , phd a : suppose you have a phone - level alignment . phd f : yeah , especially at the phone - level . phd a : you 'd have you 'd have phd f : the we we have phone - level backtraces . grad c : yeah , this i do n't think i would do this for phone - level . i think for phone - level you want to use some sort of binary representation phd f : um grad c : because it 'll be too dense otherwise . phd f : ok . so , if you were doing that and you had this sort of companion , uh , thing that gets called up for phone - level , uh , what would that look like ? grad c : i would use just an existing an existing way of doing it . phd f : how would you ? phd a : mmm . but but why not use it for phone - level ? it 's just a matter of it 's just a matter of it being bigger . but if you have you know , barring memory limitations , or uh i w i mean this is still the m grad c : it 's parsing limitations . i do n't want to have this text file that you have to read in the whole thing to do something very simple for . phd a : oh , no . you would use it only for purposes where you actually want the phone - level information , i 'd imagine . phd f : so you could have some file that configures how much information you want in your in your xml or something . grad c : right . i mean , you 'd y phd a : you grad c : i i am imagining you 'd have multiple versions of this depending on the information that you want . phd f : cuz th it does get very bush with right . grad c : um , i 'm just what i 'm wondering is whether i think for word - level , this would be ok . phd f : yeah . grad c : for word - level , it 's alright . phd f : yeah . definitely . phd a : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did f think about the current xml format to link up different components in data ? </s> phd f : ok . so , i mean , that seems that seems g great for all of the encoding of things with time and , grad c : oh , well . phd f : um i i guess my question is more , uh , what d what do you do with , say , a forced alignment ? phd a : how - how phd f : i mean you 've got all these phone labels , and what do you do if you just conceptually , if you get , um , transcriptions where the words are staying but the time boundaries are changing , cuz you 've got a new recognition output , or s sort of what 's the , um , sequence of going from the waveforms that stay the same , the transcripts that may or may not change , and then the utterance which where the time boundaries that may or may not change ? phd a : oh , that 's that 's actually very nicely handled here because you could you could all you 'd have to change is the , um , time - stamps in the time - line without without , uh , changing the i ds . phd f : um . and you 'd be able to propagate all of the the information ? grad c : right . that 's , the who that 's why you do that extra level of indirection . so that you can just change the time - line . phd a : except the time - line is gon na be huge . if you say phd f : yeah , phd a : suppose you have a phone - level alignment . phd f : yeah , especially at the phone - level . phd a : you 'd have you 'd have phd f : the we we have phone - level backtraces . grad c : yeah , this i do n't think i would do this for phone - level . i think for phone - level you want to use some sort of binary representation phd f : um grad c : because it 'll be too dense otherwise . phd f : ok . so , if you were doing that and you had this sort of companion , uh , thing that gets called up for phone - level , uh , what would that look like ? grad c : i would use just an existing an existing way of doing it . phd f : how would you ? phd a : mmm . but but why not use it for phone - level ? it 's just a matter of it 's just a matter of it being bigger . but if you have you know , barring memory limitations , or uh i w i mean this is still the m grad c : it 's parsing limitations . i do n't want to have this text file that you have to read in the whole thing to do something very simple for . phd a : oh , no . you would use it only for purposes where you actually want the phone - level information , i 'd imagine . phd f : so you could have some file that configures how much information you want in your in your xml or something . grad c : right . i mean , you 'd y phd a : you grad c : i i am imagining you 'd have multiple versions of this depending on the information that you want . phd f : cuz th it does get very bush with right . grad c : um , i 'm just what i 'm wondering is whether i think for word - level , this would be ok . phd f : yeah . grad c : for word - level , it 's alright . </s>
<s> what did a think about the current xml format to link up different components in data ? </s> phd a : oh , that 's that 's actually very nicely handled here because you could you could all you 'd have to change is the , um , time - stamps in the time - line without without , uh , changing the i ds . phd f : um . and you 'd be able to propagate all of the the information ? grad c : right . that 's , the who that 's why you do that extra level of indirection . so that you can just change the time - line . phd a : except the time - line is gon na be huge . if you say phd f : yeah , phd a : suppose you have a phone - level alignment . phd f : yeah , especially at the phone - level . phd a : you 'd have you 'd have phd f : the we we have phone - level backtraces . grad c : yeah , this i do n't think i would do this for phone - level . i think for phone - level you want to use some sort of binary representation phd f : um grad c : because it 'll be too dense otherwise . phd f : ok . so , if you were doing that and you had this sort of companion , uh , thing that gets called up for phone - level , uh , what would that look like ? grad c : i would use just an existing an existing way of doing it . phd f : how would you ? phd a : mmm . but but why not use it for phone - level ? it 's just a matter of it 's just a matter of it being bigger . but if you have you know , barring memory limitations , or uh i w i mean this is still the m grad c : it 's parsing limitations . i do n't want to have this text file that you have to read in the whole thing to do something very simple for . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the disadvantages of atlas and other options </s> grad c : i guess i 'm just a little hesitant to try to go whole hog on sort of the the whole framework that that nist is talking about , with atlas and a database and all that sort of stuff , phd f : so grad c : cuz it 's a big learning curve , just to get going . whereas if we just do a flat file format , sure , it may not be as efficient but everyone can program in perl and and use it . right ? phd a : but this is grad c : so , as opposed to phd a : i i 'm still , um , not convinced that you can do much at all on the text on the flat file that that you know , the text representation . e because the text representation is gon na be , uh , not reflecting the structure of of your words and annotations . it 's just it 's grad c : well , if it 's not representing it , then how do you recover it ? of course it 's representing it . phd a : no . you you have to what you have to do is you have to basically grad c : that 's the whole point . phd a : y yeah . you can use perl to read it in and construct a internal representation that is essentially a lattice . but , the and then phd d : yeah . grad c : well , that was a different point . phd a : right . grad c : right ? so what i was saying is that phd a : but that 's what you 'll have to do . bec - be grad c : for perl if you want to just do perl . if you wanted to use the structured xml query language , that 's a different thing . and it 's a set of tools that let you specify given the d - ddt dtd of the document , um , what sorts of structural searches you want to do . so you want to say that , you know , you 're looking for , um , a tag within a tag within a particular tag that has this particular text in it , um , and , uh , refers to a particular value . and so the point is n't that an end - user , who is looking for a query like you specified , would n't program it in this language . what you would do is , someone would build a tool that used that as a library . so that they so that you would n't have to construct the internal representations yourself . phd f : is a see , i think the kinds of questions , at least in the next to the end of this year , are there may be a lot of different ones , but they 'll all have a similar nature . they 'll be looking at either a word - level prosodic , uh , an a value , grad c : mm - hmm . phd f : like a continuous value , like the slope of something . but you know , we 'll do something where we some kind of data reduction where the prosodic features are sort o uh , either at the word - level or at the segment - level , grad c : right . phd f : or or something like that . they 're not gon na be at the phone - level and they 're no not gon na be at the frame - level when we get done with sort of giving them simpler shapes and things . and so the main thing is just being able well , i guess , the two goals . um , one that chuck mentioned is starting out with something that we do n't have to start over , that we do n't have to throw away if other people want to extend it for other kinds of questions , grad c : right . phd f : and being able to at least get enough , uh , information out on where we condition the location of features on information that 's in the kind of file that you put up there . and that would that would do it , grad c : yeah . i think that there are quick and dirty solutions , phd f : i mean , for me . grad c : and then there are long - term , big - infrastructure solutions . and so we want to try to pick something that lets us do a little bit of both . phd f : in the between , right . and especially that the representation does n't have to be thrown away , grad c : um right . phd f : even if your tools change . grad c : and so it seems to me that i mean , i have to look at it again to see whether it can really do what we want , but if we use the atlas external file representation , um , it seems like it 's rich enough that you could do quick tools just as i said in perl , and then later on if we choose to go up the learning curve , we can use the whole atlas inter infrastructure , phd f : yeah . i mean , that sounds good to me . grad c : which has all that built in . phd f : i i do n't so if if you would l look at that and let us know what you think . grad c : sure . phd f : i mean , i think we 're sort of guinea pigs , cuz i i want to get the prosody work done but i do n't want to waste time , you know , getting the phd a : oh , maybe phd f : yeah ? phd a : um grad c : well , i would n't wait for the formats , because anything you pick we 'll be able to translate to another form . phd a : well ma well , maybe you should actually look at it yourself too to get a sense of what it is you 'll you 'll be dealing with , because , um , you know , adam might have one opinion but you might have another , so grad b : yeah . phd f : yeah , definitely . phd a : i think the more eyes look at this the better . phd f : especially if there 's , e um you know , if someone can help with at least the the setup of the right grad c : hi , jane . phd f : oh , hi . the right representation , then , i you know , i hope it wo n't we do n't actually need the whole full - blown thing to be ready , grad c : can you oh , well . phd f : so . um , so maybe if you guys can look at it and sort of see what , grad b : yeah . grad c : sure . phd f : um i think we 're we 're we 're actually just grad c : we 're about done . phd f : yeah , wrapping up , but , um yeah , sorry , it 's a uh short meeting , but , um well , i do n't know . is there anything else , like i mean that helps me a lot , grad c : well , i think the other thing we might want to look at is alternatives to p - file . phd f : but grad c : i mean , th the reason i like p - file is i 'm already familiar with it , we have expertise here , and so if we pick something else , there 's the learning - curve problem . but , i mean , it is just something we developed at icsi . phd a : is there an is there an ip - api ? grad c : and so yeah . there 's an api for it . and , uh , phd a : there used to be a problem that they get too large , grad c : a bunch of libraries , p - file utilities . phd a : and so basically the uh the filesystem would n't grad c : well , that 's gon na be a problem no matter what . you have the two - gigabyte limit on the filesystem size . and we definitely hit that with broadcast news . phd a : maybe you could extend the api to , uh , support , uh , like splitting up , you know , conceptually one file into smaller files on disk so that you can essentially , you know , have arbitrarily long f grad c : yep . most of the tools can handle that . phd a : yeah . grad c : so that we did n't do it at the api - level . we did it at the t tool - level . that that most many of them can s you can specify several p - files and they 'll just be done sequentially . phd f : so , i guess , yeah , if if you and don can if you can show him the p - file stuff and see . grad c : sure . phd f : so this would be like for the f - zero grad b : true . grad c : i mean , if you do `` man p - file `` or `` apropos p - file `` , you 'll see a lot . grad b : i 've used the p - file , i think . i 've looked at it at least , briefly , i think when we were doing s something . phd a : what does the p stand for anyway ? grad c : i have no idea . grad b : oh , in there . grad c : i did n't de i did n't develop it . you know , it was i think it was dave johnson . so it 's all part of the quicknet library . it has all the utilities for it . phd a : no , p - files were around way before quicknet . p - files were were around when w with , um , rap . grad c : oh , were they ? phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : right ? phd f : it 's like the history of icsi . phd a : you worked with p - files . grad c : mm - hmm . phd f : like phd a : i worked with p - files . phd f : yeah ? phd d : i do n't remember what the `` p `` is , though . grad c : but there are ni they 're the quicknet library has a bunch of things in it to handle p - files , phd a : yeah . grad c : so it works pretty well . phd f : and that is n't really , i guess , as important as the the main i do n't know what you call it , the the main sort of word - level grad c : neither do i . phd d : probably stands for `` phil `` . phil kohn . grad c : it 's a phil file ? phd d : yeah . that 's my guess . phd f : huh . ok . well , that 's really useful . i mean , this is exactly the kind of thing that i wanted to settle . um , so grad c : yeah , i 've been meaning to look at the atlas stuff again anyway . phd f : great . grad c : so , just keep phd f : yeah . i guess it 's also sort of a political deci i mean , if if you feel like that 's a community that would be good to tie into anyway , then it 's sounds like it 's worth doing . grad c : yeah , i think it it w phd a : j i think there 's grad c : and , w uh , as i said , i what i did with this stuff i based it on theirs . it 's just they had n't actually come up with an external format yet . so now that they have come up with a format , it does n't it seems pretty reasonable to use it . but let me look at it again . phd f : ok , great . grad c : as i said , that phd f : cuz we actually can start grad c : there 's one level there 's one more level of indirection and i 'm just blanking on exactly how it works . i got ta look at it again . phd f : i mean , we can start with , um , i guess , this input from dave 's , which you had printed out , the channelized input . cuz he has all of the channels , you know , with the channels in the tag and stuff like that . grad c : yeah , i 've seen it . phd f : so that would be i directly , </s>
<s> what did c think about the disadvantages of atlas and other options ? </s> grad c : i guess i 'm just a little hesitant to try to go whole hog on sort of the the whole framework that that nist is talking about , with atlas and a database and all that sort of stuff , phd f : so grad c : cuz it 's a big learning curve , just to get going . whereas if we just do a flat file format , sure , it may not be as efficient but everyone can program in perl and and use it . right ? phd a : but this is grad c : so , as opposed to phd a : i i 'm still , um , not convinced that you can do much at all on the text on the flat file that that you know , the text representation . e because the text representation is gon na be , uh , not reflecting the structure of of your words and annotations . it 's just it 's grad c : well , if it 's not representing it , then how do you recover it ? of course it 's representing it . yeah . i think that there are quick and dirty solutions , phd f : i mean , for me . grad c : and then there are long - term , big - infrastructure solutions . and so we want to try to pick something that lets us do a little bit of both . phd f : in the between , right . and especially that the representation does n't have to be thrown away , grad c : um right . phd f : even if your tools change . grad c : and so it seems to me that i mean , i have to look at it again to see whether it can really do what we want , but if we use the atlas external file representation , um , it seems like it 's rich enough that you could do quick tools just as i said in perl , and then later on if we choose to go up the learning curve , we can use the whole atlas inter infrastructure , i mean , th the reason i like p - file is i 'm already familiar with it , we have expertise here , and so if we pick something else , there 's the learning - curve problem . but , i mean , it is just something we developed at icsi . phd a : is there an is there an ip - api ? grad c : and so yeah . there 's an api for it . and , uh , phd a : there used to be a problem that they get too large , grad c : a bunch of libraries , p - file utilities . phd a : and so basically the uh the filesystem would n't grad c : well , that 's gon na be a problem no matter what . you have the two - gigabyte limit on the filesystem size . and we definitely hit that with broadcast news . phd a : maybe you could extend the api to , uh , support , uh , like splitting up , you know , conceptually one file into smaller files on disk so that you can essentially , you know , have arbitrarily long f grad c : yep . most of the tools can handle that . phd a : yeah . grad c : so that we did n't do it at the api - level . we did it at the t tool - level . that that most many of them can s you can specify several p - files and they 'll just be done sequentially . </s>
<s> what did f think about the disadvantages of atlas and other options ? </s> grad c : for perl if you want to just do perl . if you wanted to use the structured xml query language , that 's a different thing . and it 's a set of tools that let you specify given the d - ddt dtd of the document , um , what sorts of structural searches you want to do . so you want to say that , you know , you 're looking for , um , a tag within a tag within a particular tag that has this particular text in it , um , and , uh , refers to a particular value . and so the point is n't that an end - user , who is looking for a query like you specified , would n't program it in this language . what you would do is , someone would build a tool that used that as a library . so that they so that you would n't have to construct the internal representations yourself . phd f : is a see , i think the kinds of questions , at least in the next to the end of this year , are there may be a lot of different ones , but they 'll all have a similar nature . they 'll be looking at either a word - level prosodic , uh , an a value , grad c : mm - hmm . phd f : like a continuous value , like the slope of something . but you know , we 'll do something where we some kind of data reduction where the prosodic features are sort o uh , either at the word - level or at the segment - level , grad c : right . phd f : or or something like that . they 're not gon na be at the phone - level and they 're no not gon na be at the frame - level when we get done with sort of giving them simpler shapes and things . and so the main thing is just being able well , i guess , the two goals . um , one that chuck mentioned is starting out with something that we do n't have to start over , that we do n't have to throw away if other people want to extend it for other kinds of questions , grad c : right . phd f : and being able to at least get enough , uh , information out on where we condition the location of features on information that 's in the kind of file that you put up there . and that would that would do it , grad c : yeah . i think that there are quick and dirty solutions , phd f : i mean , for me . grad c : and then there are long - term , big - infrastructure solutions . and so we want to try to pick something that lets us do a little bit of both . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . right . conceptual design meeting . right . okay , so right well um from the last meeting i was trying to send you the minutes , but uh it did n't work out too well , so maybe in sort of um quick summary of the last uh meeting , i can quickly give you what we what we had . user interface : project manager : uh right , so wishing i had n't closed the damn right so we had the fact that we 're gon na have the the logo uh the company logo in its uh colour scheme incorporated onto the the device the remote device . we had uh made our decisions about uh made our decisions about uh the device itself , that it was gon na be simple to make it uh enable us to complete the project in time . we 're gon na have uh effectively two pages , a front page which had the uh features that the uh the customers most wanted , and then the uh the backup features on the second page so that it could uh meet the technical requirements . and the customers would n't have to look at them too often , only as and when required . so . so basically what decisions uh have we uh made ? uh have there been any uh changes ? industrial designer : i think we all have a presentation again , project manager : right . industrial designer : so if we go through those and then um marketing : yeah . project manager : three presentation , yeah . industrial designer : . shall i go first again ? project manager : so yeah , fine . marketing : okay . industrial designer : i see this a little more smoothly than the last one . project manager : industrial designer : okay right , let 's get started . um basically the uh for the um i 'll back actually . for the components design , um next step is basically the the way the remote 's gon na work is still the same idea as before . we still have the user interface which is all the buttons we 're gon na incorporate . then there is a chip and still the sender . so um yes including the power s supply as well . um i 'll go on to my findings in each of these areas . uh first in the power supply , we have the option of just the standard battery , um . there 's a dynamo . any of you think of kind of like the the old torches which you wind up um . there 's a kinetic option , which if any of you 've seen those new watches which you kind of you power up by waving around , um it just requires a small amount of movement which would mean the batteries would n't have to be replaced . um that 's one option , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but i think that was gon na cost a little more . and then there 's solar cells . um as a final option . for the buttons , we have um an integrated push button , which is oh just to say all all these are um supplied by real reaction . so i guess for the ease of for quickness and ease we should take them from at least like one of these options . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um so for the buttons there 's an integrated push button , which i guess is just the same as the standard ones . this says it 's uh similar to uh the button on the mouse for a normal for like uh like modern computer . um there 's a scroll wheel which is you know the new mouse has just got like the centre section which you can scroll up and down , which may be for the volume . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you could do do that . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um one issue for the buttons is , depending on which material we use , if we use rubber buttons then it requires a rubber case , so we have to take that into consideration . um moving on to the printed s project manager : what would be the cost do do we know ? industrial designer : um that 's on the next i th i think the there was n't too much difference in the cost , that that related to the actual buttons , but it does affect the printed circuit board . um which is the next section . basically for the circuit board which is the middle , it 's just see it down there the chips like the like the workings of the actual um of the remote . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : the firm supplies a simple , a regular and an advanced um circuit board . and there 's different prices according to each . so if we 've got the scroll wheel for one of the buttons , that would require a slightly more advanced circuit board than if we just had a standard um push button . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um one final thing we came up with was some information on the speech recognition . there 's a small unit available through the company um which obviously would be an extra cost , but it would n't affect the size of the remote too much . um and i guess that would require a more advanced circuit board , so there is an extra price in that sense . there is th sorry an extra cost in that sense . um going to my personal preferences , um i thought possibly for power we could use kinetic um which is the idea of the watches um that you move you move the remote around to power it up . and this would avoid batteries running out , having to replace batteries and such like . um for the buttons , i thought we 'd probably get away with just having the standard um push buttons rather than the scroll wheel . um and for the circuit board , again depends on which features we want in the actual in the remote . so if we wanted the scroll wheel and wanted the voice recognition , um then we 'd have to get a a more costly circuit board . and that 's it . marketing : 'kay . project manager : with the printed circuit boards you were going for the user interface : thanks . industrial designer : um i it kind of depends um if we 're gon na have the speech recognition , we 'd have to probably get an advanced one . i 'm guessing . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh but i do n't know , so that is something i 'll have to look into . project manager : but are we going f r right . industrial designer : um that 's a that 's a decision for all of us . um . project manager : so are we able to make that decision now in a sense that this is the point at which we 're discussing that issue , industrial designer : yeah yeah . we decide . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so would it not be best to rather than i mean one way is to do each of the presentations and then make decisions going back to the various presentations as they were . the other way would be to do the presentation marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then make the decision at that point in time . industrial designer : um . maybe w user interface : yeah , that 's probably a better one , to discuss it straight away . project manager : 'cause at that point then you 've got the details up there , so if we wanted to know for instance that the scroll wheel required the regular and what required advance . then if we were able to see that down then we could make the decision at that point in time and then that would be the end of that issue . does that make sense ? user interface : um i have a lot of the information there . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : it might not be very clear . industrial designer : is there user interface : unless you want to plug it back in to yours . industrial designer : um . we could do , yeah . um yeah we should . project manager : industrial designer : as i say it only specified that we need a more advanced circuit board for the scroll wheel , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it did n't the voice recognition came as a separate piece of information . um . project manager : no the scroll wheel required the regular , so the industrial designer : yeah if if you down um . it 's just this bit at the bottom which i 've highlighted , but the scroll wheel requires a mini m minimally a regular chip , project manager : industrial designer : which is in the higher price range . project manager : okay . the display requires an advanced chip user interface : i think the scroll wheel um project manager : the display requires an advanced chip which in turn is more expense . industrial designer : also the display 's for something else which we decided against . um but that bit project manager : okay . industrial designer : and note that the push button just requires a simple chip , so that would keep the price down . project manager : down . user interface : yeah , and if we 're going for sleek and sexy , i think a scroll wheel is maybe a bit kinda bulky ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i i 've got um pictures well i 've seen pictures with it kind of sticking off the side of it , project manager : right . okay . user interface : and they do n't really look great . industrial designer : 'kay . so maybe just a simple push button , and that would cut costs on the project manager : so . so we 're going for p okay . so is um marketing : so are we going for the w are we going for the simple one , are we ? user interface : yeah , a simple pushbuttons . project manager : simple push button . marketing : okay . industrial designer : did everyone get this on the speech recognition ? the um it was basically what we said before , the idea that you record in a set message , and then it picks up that message um and replies to you . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so it is basically the concept we discussed before . um but then we do n't know for sure whether it would require a more complicated circuit board . i 'm guessing it would , but got like the definite information . maybe we should go on what we 're certain of rather than project manager : so if we go for the simple push button , so effectively we 're going for the simple printed circuit board are we ? or are we going for the regular ? industrial designer : um if it 's just the push button then it just needs the simple circuit board . project manager : mm-mm . but is there any other i mean okay , that 's true for the for for that element , but we have to take all el elements into consideration . and so if there is one element that requires the more expensive one , or say the regular one , or the more advanced , then that would have to be the same for all of them . s user interface : hmm . but marketing : i suppose we need we need to find out what circuit board that requires , maybe before we m make a decision . project manager : right . user interface : but the way that i interpret that um it does n't seem to send out a signal to the telly , it just it 's like a parrot just rep reply replying to your message . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : oh yeah , i suppose so , yeah . industrial designer : so maybe that would be something separate , yeah . user interface : so i do n't think it would effect our circuit board . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay , so we 'd have a simple circuit board project manager : industrial designer : and that would be an extra that would be in addition to it . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : oh that makes sense . user interface : and i do n't think you could really perform any of the remote functions with it . marketing : yeah . user interface : 'cause the example that they 've given there is good morning coffee machine , good morning jo . project manager : mm-mm . user interface : it might be useful to say like where are you remote . here i am , jo . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : but i think that 's maybe as far as that one could go ? project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah that makes sense , so we 'd stick with the simple circuit board and then think of the speech recognition as an extra an extra possibility . user interface : yeah , just as a fun way to find it . project manager : industrial designer : okay . um . project manager : simple circuit board . simple push button . okay . w w kinetic . user interface : and it says that project manager : you were you were wanting to go for the kinetic power supply . user interface : i think it said the cost of that is n't too much . industrial designer : um yeah i i thought so just for just for ease of not having to replace the batteries . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and how does it get uh charged up ? industrial designer : it 's um i think it works on the basis they have some kind of ball bearings inside . it 's um it 's some on watches which you you kind of you shake to power it up . somehow the mechanism inside powers up through movement . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so you 'd you 'd move the remote around a little bit and then that powers it up to use it . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : so the speech recognition was are we going for speech recognition ? no ? 'cause that required the advanced user interface : um i think it would be helpful to find it , but i do n't think it 'd um marketing : just industrial designer : uh yeah i think did we decide it did n't affect the circuit board , it just affected user interface : yeah , i think so . marketing : just just for the call and find thing . industrial designer : it was just project manager : i had speech recognition requires advanced req require industrial designer : oh no th that 's what that 's what i thought , but maybe maybe it does n't . um i think i might have got that wrong . project manager : so okay . marketing : 'cause it 's s it 's separate is n't it , project manager : speech recognition you reckon then is s simple . marketing : it 's not part of the industrial designer : it 's it 's just an addition thing it 's um yeah . project manager : and so we would want it in as an extra because it does n't appear to cost too much . would that be industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : 'kay shall i pass on to you now ? user interface : i think project manager : in fact , it would n't really cost anymore , would it ? user interface : i 'll just just check what it said . actually i do n't think it really says anything about the cost , but it says that it 's already in the coffee machines , so like it 's already kind of marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i assume it would cost extra , but maybe we maybe we 'll find out how much that does cost and have to decide slightly later . project manager : and then have to change all change everything at the last minute . user interface : project manager : okay . s user interface : um . oh , that was quick . um okay , so very brief presentation , um . from looking at the remotes that are out there at the minute , none of them are particularly um sleek and sexy . um i have n't actually got the examples of the scroll button there , um but there 's some curved cases that you can see , uh a range of sizes uh . all of them have a lot of buttons there um they seem to just have the rubber buttons . does that move it ? project manager : sorry ? user interface : it just seems to be skipping on without us doing anything . project manager : yeah , i 've found that try and get it back . industrial designer : if you right click and then go onto a previous slide . user interface : ah it 's alright . industrial designer : okay , right . user interface : um . there was n't much more to say about that , just rambling . um some of the uh remotes that i looked at , one of the models da did actually have voice recognition where you could um where it was connected to the remote control functions . and uh it was quite uh a swish model , where it can control uh four devices , tv , cable , satellite , video , d_v_d_ , audio . um so that 's a bit of competition there . so i mean maybe it 's better not to try and compete with that sort of thing and just to market it as a completely different um like different viewpoint as a kind of finding your lost control industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : rather than trying to compete with the functions . um the scroll buttons , as you 've already mentioned , um there 's examples of those , but they do n't look as sleek as other models . and there 's no real advantage and because it impacts on other on the materials and the price it 's not great . industrial designer : on the price , yeah . project manager : so you were saying the scroll buttons user interface : um yeah . th there was a specialist type of remote that we could think about , um . there was children 's remote , where um they just had a very limited range of buttons and they were b uh bright and colourful and um you you could program them so that they could only look at certain channels . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : um but i do n't know if that 's really in our field ? industrial designer : i guess i guess we 're going for the biggest market , maybe not , user interface : but that 's something that 's out there . industrial designer : but was it was it specified that we went for the biggest ? project manager : well we 're to go for the international market rather than a local market but that that would n't necessarily preclude the one thing that you can often do with products is you can uh make small modifications . so you have your basic model which you would sell at whatever , and then you could have additional features in you know like a you 'd have model one , model two and model three , and therefore you can sub-divide your market up . but that 's really where your field is . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : industrial designer : so maybe the children 's remote should be like a a next step , but maybe i dunno for ours , maybe we should project manager : anyway you could add on for an extra package , but on this basic one i 'm reckoning that we 're going for the basic model to be discussed here and that uh you would have for future reference the possibility of adding in extra features at extra cost to take care of specialist market segments . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : okay . project manager : is that user interface : right well that 's something that we can be aware of . project manager : so so what are we deciding to do here ? user interface : um . i think because there 's already um very good voice recognition technology out there , and because ours might not cover the same functions that the leading brands do , it might be a good idea to market it as a um finder function . project manager : right . mm-hmm . uh the fi yeah , the finder function rather than as a speech function to find your remote . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so you also said for going for the international market um that some some maybe older people might not like the speech recognition . s s so um user interface : oh yeah . different languages might not be compatible . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . it w it would make it quite complicated , where um ours at least keeps it fairly simple and then the marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , 'cause i think you program um this one yourself , like to say like whatever you want to your question . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah and ours is quite a cheap device , so i do n't know how much we 'll be able to put into it . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so you 'd have a finder feature rather than a voice recognition feature . marketing : yeah . project manager : and you were talking user interface : maybe unless something else comes up . project manager : mm . and you were talking about scroll buttons ? user interface : um yeah i think um i think we 've decided that it 's gon na increase the cost project manager : okay . user interface : and give no real kinda extra benefit project manager : b industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it 's gon na decrease from the sleekness of it . project manager : alright , so we 're just gon na have the the rubber buttons , was that right ? industrial designer : yes yes . user interface : hmm um and just to be aware that there are kind of specialist functions and specialist remotes but we probably do n't want to focus on those like such as the children 's remote . project manager : okay . so not to be focused on . user interface : yeah . um there was a mention just as kind of a warning about button design . um just to avoid ambiguity . so it gave the example of say your volume buttons for up and down , they might both have a v_ on for volume , um let 's think how they did this . project manager : good in in flip it round in ninety degree a hundred and eighty degrees and have it up and down . user interface : i 'm just gon na check so i do this right . project manager : an upside-down v_ . so that would show that volume was going up , whereas the one underneath would see the volume going down . user interface : um . what did they say ? um i think the thing was that if you decide to do this , to have triangular buttons , um somebody might look at this one and say oh well this triangular button is pointing up , and that 's the first thing that they see project manager : right . user interface : actually that ca n't be right , can it ? oh well , no , they might see yeah , they might see this pointing down and think right that 's gon na turn the volume down , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : whereas the actual button 's pointing up , so the function is to turn the button up . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so , be careful what you put on the buttons industrial designer : so maybe we could have like user interface : and be careful of the shape that you make them , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because they might be kind of two um contradicting kind of shapes . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah i i know what you mean . so maybe we could have volume written on the side and then up and down on the on the buttons themselves . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : you could have volume up and volume industrial designer : possible . project manager : volume up , down and like that . and 'cause the idea was to have limited um it was to have sizable amount of information on it . limited number of buttons . industrial designer : yeah yeah . project manager : 'cause it was sixteen buttons , was n't it that were industrial designer : yeah . yeah we got it down to not too many . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : um and i think that 's all i had to say for that . marketing : okay . user interface : um so what was the decision on the um design of the volume button ? industrial designer : um are we are we gon na go through the design of all the buttons at the moment , or are we gon na t marketing : i 've i 've got some things to say about possible design things from trend watching . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , maybe we should see yours first . user interface : oh okay . marketing : cool . right , um i 've been looking at some trends in in sort of basically fashion on top of doing the um research into the remote control market the the one that 's the one i talked about last time , that we 'd sort of asked people about remote controls and what what was good about them , what was bad , what they used . and we 've also been looking at sort of fa sort of fashions and what people are wanting out of consumer goods at the moment . so we 've had people in paris and milan watching the uh fashion trends . industrial designer : project manager : you know yourself . marketing : so user interface : marketing : so just to summarise the most important things which came out of the remote control market investigation . the most important thing was that the thing sort of look and felt fancy rather than just functional . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : and second , there should be some technological innovation . and then third and l less important than the other two , there should be an ease of use as well . and apparently , the fashion trends are that people want sort of clothes and shoes and things with a fruit and vegetables theme . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um but um the feel of the material should be spongy , industrial designer : marketing : which is contrary to last year , apparently . i presume it must have been not not spongy last year . project manager : user interface : marketing : so we need to emphasise the fancy design with on on our remote control above all else . and then also try and add in technological informat innovation which could be our sort of find the thing with a hand clap . and then we need to ma sort of make it easy to use that 's as a third priority , so perhaps um fewer fewer buttons and functions as we 've as we 've discussed . user interface : marketing : and then maybe find a way to incorporate these trends so that we sort of capture people 's imaginations . so maybe we could make the buttons shaped like fruit and veg , or the the buttons could be spongy , uh somehow . maybe we could make them out of rubber rather than sort of hard plastic . and then sort of even wackier than that , we could maybe have a fruit or vegetable shaped remote , say in the shape of a banana or something like that . right , so that 'll be it . user interface : marketing : maybe a banana or courgette or something . project manager : marketing : how how far we actually want to go along and sort of follow the trends , do we think the trends are particularly important for this type of gadget , or or you know , do they not matter that much ? user interface : i think if you start making the buttons fruit shaped , it might make it more complicated to use . project manager : well you were just talking about you 've got to be careful how you shape your buttons , 'cause you 're can mis-direct people . and i would 've thought the functionality 'cause the people get cheesed off by things by having to read instructions et cetera , so . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : maybe just one button , say the standby button is quite kinda separate from all the other functions . maybe that could be a little apple . marketing : maybe yeah . project manager : okay . now ? yeah . user interface : and then that would n't get in the way of like kinda one to nine , industrial designer : user interface : and it would n't confuse the numbers . project manager : stand-by button . no th that that incorporates the trend whilst at the same time not confusing people , if you 're looking for functionality . industrial designer : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well i dunno i i guess maybe fruit and vegetables may be popular at the moment , but as we know how fickle the fashion markets are , project manager : but what are they gon na be next yeah . what are they gon na be next year . industrial designer : maybe marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : hmm . s project manager : but but th but okay but you you can incorporate the tr if y if you change all the buttons then you 've got the problem that this year 's fruit and veg , next year 's uh i was gon na say animals or elephants or w whatever . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , project manager : that means you 're constantly changing your production schedule , marketing : i 'm not project manager : and you 've got ta make different moulds and everything else , marketing : yeah . project manager : so that 's not a good idea i would i would suggest . marketing : i 'm not i 'm not sure what what what the sort of timescale we 're thinking of selling the product over is . i do n't know . industrial designer : i mean it just seems realistic that the remote control market is n't the kind of thing which takes in those kinds of fashion trends . marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : to something which is maybe more universal . project manager : well user interface : but i suppose as long as it 's quite a subtle design , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : um even if the design kind of changes , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : we c maybe can imply a fruit shape possibly . project manager : ah d d but if marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : maybe the spongy feel is something we could think about , um . project manager : mm-hmm . well . yep . industrial designer : maybe still with a rubber design we could project manager : was that in the sort of fashion sense that this or was the spongy feel was that uh sort of fashion ? it was , was n't it ? marketing : yeah . project manager : so the user interface : it seems like you 're gon na have rubber cases , as well as buttons . marketing : yeah . yeah . user interface : and that you can make them curved or double-curved and that would be the kind of sleek and sexy look . industrial designer : oh yeah yeah one of the things were if you had rubber buttons then you had to have a rubber case . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um oh no no no user interface : oh right , that fits , does n't it ? industrial designer : sorry it 's if you use the uh rubber double curved case then you must use rubber buttons . that 's the way round . if you have the rubber case then you have to have the rubber buttons to go with it . which makes sense . user interface : right . project manager : rubber buttons require rubber case . user interface : and that would fit in with what we want , would n't it , for the spongy feel , to have everything rubber . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh so , yeah . the m the main problem is how f how frequently do the fashions change ? 'cause in essence in the production you want things to stay you want to basically mint them out marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause if you 've got fashion changes and that you 're incorporating , then it means that your stock is um is last year 's stock marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and therefore you 're selling it or having to sell it at a discounted rate which you would n't want to do . whereas if you kept the product the same but you could have a difference from year to year , uh it seems to me that you could incorporate a fashion statement if you like , rather than changing the whole kit and caboodle . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : you 're just changing one aspect like like the standby button or something like that , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : and especially 'cause then you could make it something that industrial designer : i suppose we maybe are limited in the fact that we still have to put the logo on the actual marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well , you might be limited in space , that yes . industrial designer : would or not . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well you two are obviously gon na find that out fairly quickly when you move over to your kit modelling stage as to uh how much pl how much how much how pliable is plasticine . industrial designer : yes yes . user interface : industrial designer : maybe we could think of the the cases like changing with the fashions project manager : industrial designer : like the nokia phones where you could take the casing off the outside . but whether that would be too much to incorporate in production , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : whether that would just increase the costs , make it more complicated . project manager : so you 're talking there about uh changing changing the casing . marketing : that 's possibly it . industrial designer : yeah the a the actual the sort of the look from the outside , so where the buttons would stay the same , and the general function of the remote would stay the same , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but you could change the the way it looked . user interface : yeah and then you could have oh but you still would have to have the logo on every new case , industrial designer : yeah , that 's true . user interface : but you could have like pink cases for girls and red ones and things like that . project manager : yeah you you could do a colour change , so therefore you would yeah yeah i mean that 's effectively what they did with the with the mobile phones , was to have some in blue , some in red , some in rather than all in black industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : or , you know , which four do you want , as long as it 's black ? but uh so industrial designer : so it is a possibility , um . user interface : but we are supposed to use the um company colour scheme , are n't we ? project manager : yes oh that 's true user interface : we have n't really seen that yet industrial designer : oh okay yes project manager : uh that might no marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that is user interface : it might and we might be able to do both but it might clash with certain things . project manager : well not necessarily , because you could have your company uh we 're we 're meant to be finishing up . you could have your company badge and logo . i mean a lot of um computers for instance like like on the one you 've got there , it actually has a sort of um stick on badge marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so what you would al all you would really need , whether it , you know , whether the casing be w any colour , could be any colour , but that badge would then have to stick out on top of it so that uh in a sense , with a with a logo like that , because it 's on a white background , the only colour that it might not stick out so well on would be a white casing . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause you you know you 're sort of you 're badging it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and in fact a lot of companies get somebody else to make them and literally just badge them themselves with their own uh badge over the top . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : and in fact the way they 've got that there even if you had that on a white , which is the predominant colour of the uh the windows badge , you 'd still be able to see it clearly from you know a white casing uh product . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . and whether we 'd have a big enough market to have this kind of like secondary market of selling the cases might be something to consider . user interface : well if it 's for young people , um like the phone generation , that sort of thing 'd probably go down well , marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and the market research has been on that side of things , has n't it ? marketing : yeah , i mean it 's people say that it 's the look , they want the fancy looking thing but i 'm yeah . i 'm not convinced on whether having changeable covers would be something that people would buy into . i think with the mobiles , it 's the , you know it 's a communication device , people see you with it all about and industrial designer : yeah i suppose , user interface : industrial designer : where you you keep the remote hidden under the sofa most of the time . marketing : i if it project manager : it 's uh in in the house , is n't it , i suppose . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay , so if we just went for one colour of a rubber case marketing : i think project manager : so do n't change case . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : change case colour . and we 're sort of saying no to that . user interface : did we decide on the rubber case ? the spongy feel , or did we think that that might go as a trend ? marketing : well , it was different last year . the trend was different last year apparently . it was not not spongy feel . but i do n't know whether the trend will change . i do n't know whether it 's one of those things that like sort of having all fruit shaped keys , that that probably would go out of fashion very quickly , project manager : yeah . marketing : whereas just the fact that it was a rubber case is probably less less of something that y you 're gon na end up hating in a year , you know . industrial designer : yeah , less likely to project manager : sounds reasonable . if you 're going for fashion trends like that they 'll need t you 'd have to have interchangeable cases industrial designer : so then th th that would project manager : so that you could industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or 'cause otherwise someone 's gon na have to buy a complete new remote rather than just a case . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it seems to make sense that we we 'd just maybe stick with the standard rubber case , and then have the standard rubber buttons as well . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . user interface : uh we have n't really talked about uh the curvature of the case . there 's flat , marketing : user interface : there 's single-curved and there 's double-curved . industrial designer : um . mayb user interface : i 'm not exactly sure what these things look like . industrial designer : maybe curves give it like the slightly more aesthetic feel ? but the double curve would n't require us to perform miracles with the plasticine . user interface : marketing : project manager : user interface : well it says that marketing : when you say d when you say double-curved , what what exactly does that mean ? user interface : i 'm not exactly sure . um i 'll show you the remotes that i 've got . marketing : okay . user interface : see how uh let 's just get that bigger . see how uh the one oh i 'm not plugged in , am i ? marketing : no you 're not connected to me anymore . industrial designer : user interface : that does n't help . project manager : one one thing to cons user interface : shall i just turn it round for time ? project manager : one thing to consider is that in some ways you want um by having a fairly standard case it means they can all fit together on top of each other marketing : that should come up . project manager : therefore for storage purposes in shops and the like and it makes it easier that you can if you can store them up on top of each other . marketing : mm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : whereas if you do um fancy things with it , you then got ta put it in a ca a a packaging box that that does that . and the cost of packaging could be quite important vis-a-vis the total cost of the product . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so shall we go through quickly and just work out what we 've decide on , if we have to kind of project manager : so but marketing : yeah . user interface : um it 's not very clear up there , but you can see some of them have got kind of bulges , like the second one and the end one uh where there 's a curve there . project manager : mm yep . marketing : right . user interface : i 'm not exactl i do n't know if a double curve is maybe it comes up slightly , or ? marketing : that 's what i was trying to work out . user interface : but um it is a kinda sleeker look if you 've got curves in there . project manager : oh right . s so do you wan na go for curves , more curves ? marketing : shall we project manager : we 're meant to be f we 're meant to be finishing this meeting in about a minute or so . user interface : definitely a single , maybe a double . industrial designer : 'kay , so shall we quickly marketing : yeah . user interface : shall we go for single curve , just to compromise ? industrial designer : we 'll go for single curve , yeah . project manager : okay , industrial designer : single curve . marketing : okay . project manager : curved or double curved ? so it 's single curved . industrial designer : so did we did we decide on the kinetic power supply ? the one you move around ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah i think that think that 's a good idea . industrial designer : okay . um user interface : and the rubber push buttons , rubber case . marketing : rubber rubber buttons and case . user interface : um and we do n't really know much about the colour scheme or logo yet do we , industrial designer : oh we ca user interface : but possibly a sticker . industrial designer : yeah yeah , we 'll still have the are we gon na go for the simple circuit board just to keep the cost down ? i th i think we can by by not having anything too complicated . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah and and the voice recognition , we can use that ca n't we , just to find it . without affecting the circuit board . project manager : yes . yep . industrial designer : um . marketing : yeah yeah . industrial designer : and see we could always decide against it if something comes up that 's just something to that we seemed to leave out . marketing : okay . and then are we going for sort of one button shaped like a fruit . or veg . user interface : yeah that sounds like it would n't do too much harm in a couple of years . uh what sort of shape do we want ? project manager : so we 've got spongy feel buttons as well , have we ? marketing : do n't know , maybe just project manager : as well as or w or was that marketing : yeah . that 's ru rubber buttons , yeah . project manager : so it 's rubber buttons , industrial designer : yeah , it was just project manager : so it 's not really spongy feel buttons , it 's just rubber buttons . with a rubber case right ? industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , so it 's not too wacky . marketing : reasonably spongy i guess , yeah . project manager : and the standby button is gon na be different . marketing : yeah okay . user interface : um i think an apple would be a good recognisable shape . if you start getting into kinda aubergines and things , it gets a bit weird . marketing : project manager : okay so what what shape are we making the standby button ? marketing : yeah . apple ? project manager : a apple . user interface : vote ? project manager : oh oh sorry ? marketing : yeah . user interface : shall we vote on it ? industrial designer : we will go for the a a a apples apples . marketing : yeah . user interface : anyone got any suggestions ? marketing : apple apple a a qu quite a big one , as well . project manager : user interface : okay . ah . marketing : a big apple . uh user interface : well it could be red . marketing : could be a red apple , yeah . either , do n't mind . project manager : a red apple ? is it ? user interface : yeah 'cause we wan na incorporate a bit of colour if we can , once we find out um industrial designer : okay . and then we 're gon na are you gon na work on keeping the button design quite simple ? just like the just working out what we 're gon na do for the next time . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . yeah that seems pretty straight forward . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : 'cause most of them will just be kind of mainly circular or like very plain . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : mm-hmm . okay . project manager : sorry what was that last thing again there ? user interface : uh just to keep the shape of the buttons simple . project manager : right much option on that . i thought you were going for a single curve and user interface : ah just the uh shape of the buttons . project manager : alright . industrial designer : and j yeah , just keeping the sort of the labelling them labelling of them fairly simple as well . fairly sort of self explanatory . user interface : yeah . project manager : right , so shape of buttons simple . okay . so that 's that , i guess . we should now go away and get these things sorted out . i guess you two are on plasticine duty or whatever . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay , so um . industrial designer : is that the end ? okay . marketing : looks like it . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about components of the remote control and what is the conclusion of the discussion ? </s> industrial designer : okay right , let 's get started . um basically the uh for the um i 'll back actually . for the components design , um next step is basically the the way the remote 's gon na work is still the same idea as before . we still have the user interface which is all the buttons we 're gon na incorporate . then there is a chip and still the sender . so um yes including the power s supply as well . um i 'll go on to my findings in each of these areas . uh first in the power supply , we have the option of just the standard battery , um . there 's a dynamo . any of you think of kind of like the the old torches which you wind up um . there 's a kinetic option , which if any of you 've seen those new watches which you kind of you power up by waving around , um it just requires a small amount of movement which would mean the batteries would n't have to be replaced . um that 's one option , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but i think that was gon na cost a little more . and then there 's solar cells . um as a final option . for the buttons , we have um an integrated push button , which is oh just to say all all these are um supplied by real reaction . so i guess for the ease of for quickness and ease we should take them from at least like one of these options . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um so for the buttons there 's an integrated push button , which i guess is just the same as the standard ones . this says it 's uh similar to uh the button on the mouse for a normal for like uh like modern computer . um there 's a scroll wheel which is you know the new mouse has just got like the centre section which you can scroll up and down , which may be for the volume . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you could do do that . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um one issue for the buttons is , depending on which material we use , if we use rubber buttons then it requires a rubber case , so we have to take that into consideration . um moving on to the printed s project manager : what would be the cost do do we know ? industrial designer : um that 's on the next i th i think the there was n't too much difference in the cost , that that related to the actual buttons , but it does affect the printed circuit board . um which is the next section . basically for the circuit board which is the middle , it 's just see it down there the chips like the like the workings of the actual um of the remote . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : the firm supplies a simple , a regular and an advanced um circuit board . and there 's different prices according to each . so if we 've got the scroll wheel for one of the buttons , that would require a slightly more advanced circuit board than if we just had a standard um push button . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um one final thing we came up with was some information on the speech recognition . there 's a small unit available through the company um which obviously would be an extra cost , but it would n't affect the size of the remote too much . um and i guess that would require a more advanced circuit board , so there is an extra price in that sense . there is th sorry an extra cost in that sense . um going to my personal preferences , um i thought possibly for power we could use kinetic um which is the idea of the watches um that you move you move the remote around to power it up . and this would avoid batteries running out , having to replace batteries and such like . um for the buttons , i thought we 'd probably get away with just having the standard um push buttons rather than the scroll wheel . um and for the circuit board , again depends on which features we want in the actual in the remote . so if we wanted the scroll wheel and wanted the voice recognition , um then we 'd have to get a a more costly circuit board . and that 's it . marketing : 'kay . project manager : with the printed circuit boards you were going for the user interface : thanks . industrial designer : um i it kind of depends um if we 're gon na have the speech recognition , we 'd have to probably get an advanced one . i 'm guessing . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh but i do n't know , so that is something i 'll have to look into . project manager : but are we going f r right . industrial designer : um that 's a that 's a decision for all of us . um . project manager : so are we able to make that decision now in a sense that this is the point at which we 're discussing that issue , industrial designer : yeah yeah . we decide . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so would it not be best to rather than i mean one way is to do each of the presentations and then make decisions going back to the various presentations as they were . the other way would be to do the presentation marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then make the decision at that point in time . industrial designer : um . maybe w user interface : yeah , that 's probably a better one , to discuss it straight away . project manager : 'cause at that point then you 've got the details up there , so if we wanted to know for instance that the scroll wheel required the regular and what required advance . then if we were able to see that down then we could make the decision at that point in time and then that would be the end of that issue . does that make sense ? user interface : um i have a lot of the information there . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : it might not be very clear . industrial designer : is there user interface : unless you want to plug it back in to yours . industrial designer : um . we could do , yeah . um yeah we should . project manager : industrial designer : as i say it only specified that we need a more advanced circuit board for the scroll wheel , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it did n't the voice recognition came as a separate piece of information . um . project manager : no the scroll wheel required the regular , so the industrial designer : yeah if if you down um . it 's just this bit at the bottom which i 've highlighted , but the scroll wheel requires a mini m minimally a regular chip , project manager : industrial designer : which is in the higher price range . project manager : okay . the display requires an advanced chip user interface : i think the scroll wheel um project manager : the display requires an advanced chip which in turn is more expense . industrial designer : also the display 's for something else which we decided against . um but that bit project manager : okay . industrial designer : and note that the push button just requires a simple chip , so that would keep the price down . project manager : down . user interface : yeah , and if we 're going for sleek and sexy , i think a scroll wheel is maybe a bit kinda bulky ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i i 've got um pictures well i 've seen pictures with it kind of sticking off the side of it , project manager : right . okay . user interface : and they do n't really look great . industrial designer : 'kay . so maybe just a simple push button , and that would cut costs on the project manager : so . so we 're going for p okay . so is um marketing : so are we going for the w are we going for the simple one , are we ? user interface : yeah , a simple pushbuttons . project manager : simple push button . marketing : okay . industrial designer : did everyone get this on the speech recognition ? the um it was basically what we said before , the idea that you record in a set message , and then it picks up that message um and replies to you . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so it is basically the concept we discussed before . um but then we do n't know for sure whether it would require a more complicated circuit board . i 'm guessing it would , but got like the definite information . maybe we should go on what we 're certain of rather than project manager : so if we go for the simple push button , so effectively we 're going for the simple printed circuit board are we ? or are we going for the regular ? industrial designer : um if it 's just the push button then it just needs the simple circuit board . project manager : mm-mm . but is there any other i mean okay , that 's true for the for for that element , but we have to take all el elements into consideration . and so if there is one element that requires the more expensive one , or say the regular one , or the more advanced , then that would have to be the same for all of them . s user interface : hmm . but marketing : i suppose we need we need to find out what circuit board that requires , maybe before we m make a decision . project manager : right . user interface : but the way that i interpret that um it does n't seem to send out a signal to the telly , it just it 's like a parrot just rep reply replying to your message . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : oh yeah , i suppose so , yeah . industrial designer : so maybe that would be something separate , yeah . user interface : so i do n't think it would effect our circuit board . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : okay , so we 'd have a simple circuit board project manager : industrial designer : and that would be an extra that would be in addition to it . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : oh that makes sense . user interface : and i do n't think you could really perform any of the remote functions with it . marketing : yeah . user interface : 'cause the example that they 've given there is good morning coffee machine , good morning jo . project manager : mm-mm . user interface : it might be useful to say like where are you remote . here i am , jo . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : but i think that 's maybe as far as that one could go ? project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah that makes sense , so we 'd stick with the simple circuit board and then think of the speech recognition as an extra an extra possibility . user interface : yeah , just as a fun way to find it . project manager : industrial designer : okay . um . project manager : simple circuit board . simple push button . okay . w w kinetic . user interface : and it says that project manager : you were you were wanting to go for the kinetic power supply . user interface : i think it said the cost of that is n't too much . industrial designer : um yeah i i thought so just for just for ease of not having to replace the batteries . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and how does it get uh charged up ? industrial designer : it 's um i think it works on the basis they have some kind of ball bearings inside . it 's um it 's some on watches which you you kind of you shake to power it up . somehow the mechanism inside powers up through movement . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so you 'd you 'd move the remote around a little bit and then that powers it up to use it . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : so the speech recognition was are we going for speech recognition ? no ? 'cause that required the advanced user interface : um i think it would be helpful to find it , but i do n't think it 'd um marketing : just industrial designer : uh yeah i think did we decide it did n't affect the circuit board , it just affected user interface : yeah , i think so . marketing : just just for the call and find thing . industrial designer : it was just project manager : i had speech recognition requires advanced req require industrial designer : oh no th that 's what that 's what i thought , but maybe maybe it does n't . um i think i might have got that wrong . project manager : so okay . marketing : 'cause it 's s it 's separate is n't it , project manager : speech recognition you reckon then is s simple . marketing : it 's not part of the industrial designer : it 's it 's just an addition thing it 's um yeah . project manager : and so we would want it in as an extra because it does n't appear to cost too much . would that be industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : 'kay shall i pass on to you now ? user interface : i think project manager : in fact , it would n't really cost anymore , would it ? user interface : i 'll just just check what it said . actually i do n't think it really says anything about the cost , but it says that it 's already in the coffee machines , so like it 's already kind of marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i assume it would cost extra , but maybe we maybe we 'll find out how much that does cost and have to decide slightly later . project manager : and then have to change all change everything at the last minute . user interface : project manager : okay . s user interface : um . oh , that was quick . um okay , so very brief presentation , um . from looking at the remotes that are out there at the minute , none of them are particularly um sleek and sexy . um i have n't actually got the examples of the scroll button there , um but there 's some curved cases that you can see , uh a range of sizes uh . all of them have a lot of buttons there um they seem to just have the rubber buttons . does that move it ? project manager : sorry ? user interface : it just seems to be skipping on without us doing anything . project manager : yeah , i 've found that try and get it back . industrial designer : if you right click and then go onto a previous slide . user interface : ah it 's alright . industrial designer : okay , right . user interface : um . there was n't much more to say about that , just rambling . um some of the uh remotes that i looked at , one of the models da did actually have voice recognition where you could um where it was connected to the remote control functions . and uh it was quite uh a swish model , where it can control uh four devices , tv , cable , satellite , video , d_v_d_ , audio . um so that 's a bit of competition there . so i mean maybe it 's better not to try and compete with that sort of thing and just to market it as a completely different um like different viewpoint as a kind of finding your lost control industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : rather than trying to compete with the functions . um the scroll buttons , as you 've already mentioned , um there 's examples of those , but they do n't look as sleek as other models . and there 's no real advantage and because it impacts on other on the materials and the price it 's not great . industrial designer : on the price , yeah . project manager : so you were saying the scroll buttons user interface : um yeah . th there was a specialist type of remote that we could think about , um . there was children 's remote , where um they just had a very limited range of buttons and they were b uh bright and colourful and um you you could program them so that they could only look at certain channels . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : um but i do n't know if that 's really in our field ? industrial designer : i guess i guess we 're going for the biggest market , maybe not , user interface : but that 's something that 's out there . industrial designer : but was it was it specified that we went for the biggest ? project manager : well we 're to go for the international market rather than a local market but that that would n't necessarily preclude the one thing that you can often do with products is you can uh make small modifications . so you have your basic model which you would sell at whatever , and then you could have additional features in you know like a you 'd have model one , model two and model three , and therefore you can sub-divide your market up . but that 's really where your field is . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : industrial designer : so maybe the children 's remote should be like a a next step , but maybe i dunno for ours , maybe we should project manager : anyway you could add on for an extra package , but on this basic one i 'm reckoning that we 're going for the basic model to be discussed here and that uh you would have for future reference the possibility of adding in extra features at extra cost to take care of specialist market segments . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : okay . project manager : is that user interface : right well that 's something that we can be aware of . project manager : so so what are we deciding to do here ? user interface : um . i think because there 's already um very good voice recognition technology out there , and because ours might not cover the same functions that the leading brands do , it might be a good idea to market it as a um finder function . project manager : right . mm-hmm . uh the fi yeah , the finder function rather than as a speech function to find your remote . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so you also said for going for the international market um that some some maybe older people might not like the speech recognition . s s so um user interface : oh yeah . different languages might not be compatible . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . it w it would make it quite complicated , where um ours at least keeps it fairly simple and then the marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , 'cause i think you program um this one yourself , like to say like whatever you want to your question . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah and ours is quite a cheap device , so i do n't know how much we 'll be able to put into it . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so you 'd have a finder feature rather than a voice recognition feature . marketing : yeah . project manager : and you were talking </s>
<s> what did industrial designer suggest about the simple push button when discussing the components of the remote ? </s> industrial designer : and note that the push button just requires a simple chip , so that would keep the price down . project manager : down . user interface : yeah , and if we 're going for sleek and sexy , i think a scroll wheel is maybe a bit kinda bulky ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i i 've got um pictures well i 've seen pictures with it kind of sticking off the side of it , project manager : right . okay . user interface : and they do n't really look great . industrial designer : 'kay . so maybe just a simple push button , and that would cut costs on the project manager : so . so we 're going for p okay . so is um marketing : so are we going for the w are we going for the simple one , are we ? user interface : yeah , a simple pushbuttons . project manager : simple push button . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about the voice recognition system of the remote when discussing the components of the remote ? </s> user interface : um . there was n't much more to say about that , just rambling . um some of the uh remotes that i looked at , one of the models da did actually have voice recognition where you could um where it was connected to the remote control functions . and uh it was quite uh a swish model , where it can control uh four devices , tv , cable , satellite , video , d_v_d_ , audio . um so that 's a bit of competition there . so i mean maybe it 's better not to try and compete with that sort of thing and just to market it as a completely different um like different viewpoint as a kind of finding your lost control industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : rather than trying to compete with the functions . um the scroll buttons , as you 've already mentioned , um there 's examples of those , but they do n't look as sleek as other models . and there 's no real advantage and because it impacts on other on the materials and the price it 's not great . industrial designer : on the price , yeah . project manager : so you were saying the scroll buttons user interface : um yeah . th there was a specialist type of remote that we could think about , um . there was children 's remote , where um they just had a very limited range of buttons and they were b uh bright and colourful and um you you could program them so that they could only look at certain channels . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : um but i do n't know if that 's really in our field ? industrial designer : i guess i guess we 're going for the biggest market , maybe not , user interface : but that 's something that 's out there . industrial designer : but was it was it specified that we went for the biggest ? project manager : well we 're to go for the international market rather than a local market but that that would n't necessarily preclude the one thing that you can often do with products is you can uh make small modifications . so you have your basic model which you would sell at whatever , and then you could have additional features in you know like a you 'd have model one , model two and model three , and therefore you can sub-divide your market up . but that 's really where your field is . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : industrial designer : so maybe the children 's remote should be like a a next step , but maybe i dunno for ours , maybe we should project manager : anyway you could add on for an extra package , but on this basic one i 'm reckoning that we 're going for the basic model to be discussed here and that uh you would have for future reference the possibility of adding in extra features at extra cost to take care of specialist market segments . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : okay . project manager : is that user interface : right well that 's something that we can be aware of . project manager : so so what are we deciding to do here ? user interface : um . i think because there 's already um very good voice recognition technology out there , and because ours might not cover the same functions that the leading brands do , it might be a good idea to market it as a um finder function . project manager : right . mm-hmm . uh the fi yeah , the finder function rather than as a speech function to find your remote . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the design of the remote control and what is the conclusion of the discussion ? </s> project manager : mm . and you were talking about scroll buttons ? user interface : um yeah i think um i think we 've decided that it 's gon na increase the cost project manager : okay . user interface : and give no real kinda extra benefit project manager : b industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it 's gon na decrease from the sleekness of it . project manager : alright , so we 're just gon na have the the rubber buttons , was that right ? industrial designer : yes yes . user interface : hmm um and just to be aware that there are kind of specialist functions and specialist remotes but we probably do n't want to focus on those like such as the children 's remote . project manager : okay . so not to be focused on . user interface : yeah . um there was a mention just as kind of a warning about button design . um just to avoid ambiguity . so it gave the example of say your volume buttons for up and down , they might both have a v_ on for volume , um let 's think how they did this . project manager : good in in flip it round in ninety degree a hundred and eighty degrees and have it up and down . user interface : i 'm just gon na check so i do this right . project manager : an upside-down v_ . so that would show that volume was going up , whereas the one underneath would see the volume going down . user interface : um . what did they say ? um i think the thing was that if you decide to do this , to have triangular buttons , um somebody might look at this one and say oh well this triangular button is pointing up , and that 's the first thing that they see project manager : right . user interface : actually that ca n't be right , can it ? oh well , no , they might see yeah , they might see this pointing down and think right that 's gon na turn the volume down , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : whereas the actual button 's pointing up , so the function is to turn the button up . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so , be careful what you put on the buttons industrial designer : so maybe we could have like user interface : and be careful of the shape that you make them , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because they might be kind of two um contradicting kind of shapes . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah i i know what you mean . so maybe we could have volume written on the side and then up and down on the on the buttons themselves . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : you could have volume up and volume industrial designer : possible . project manager : volume up , down and like that . and 'cause the idea was to have limited um it was to have sizable amount of information on it . limited number of buttons . industrial designer : yeah yeah . project manager : 'cause it was sixteen buttons , was n't it that were industrial designer : yeah . yeah we got it down to not too many . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : um and i think that 's all i had to say for that . marketing : okay . user interface : um so what was the decision on the um design of the volume button ? industrial designer : um are we are we gon na go through the design of all the buttons at the moment , or are we gon na t marketing : i 've i 've got some things to say about possible design things from trend watching . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , maybe we should see yours first . user interface : oh okay . marketing : cool . right , um i 've been looking at some trends in in sort of basically fashion on top of doing the um research into the remote control market the the one that 's the one i talked about last time , that we 'd sort of asked people about remote controls and what what was good about them , what was bad , what they used . and we 've also been looking at sort of fa sort of fashions and what people are wanting out of consumer goods at the moment . so we 've had people in paris and milan watching the uh fashion trends . industrial designer : project manager : you know yourself . marketing : so user interface : marketing : so just to summarise the most important things which came out of the remote control market investigation . the most important thing was that the thing sort of look and felt fancy rather than just functional . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : and second , there should be some technological innovation . and then third and l less important than the other two , there should be an ease of use as well . and apparently , the fashion trends are that people want sort of clothes and shoes and things with a fruit and vegetables theme . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um but um the feel of the material should be spongy , industrial designer : marketing : which is contrary to last year , apparently . i presume it must have been not not spongy last year . project manager : user interface : marketing : so we need to emphasise the fancy design with on on our remote control above all else . and then also try and add in technological informat innovation which could be our sort of find the thing with a hand clap . and then we need to ma sort of make it easy to use that 's as a third priority , so perhaps um fewer fewer buttons and functions as we 've as we 've discussed . user interface : marketing : and then maybe find a way to incorporate these trends so that we sort of capture people 's imaginations . so maybe we could make the buttons shaped like fruit and veg , or the the buttons could be spongy , uh somehow . maybe we could make them out of rubber rather than sort of hard plastic . and then sort of even wackier than that , we could maybe have a fruit or vegetable shaped remote , say in the shape of a banana or something like that . right , so that 'll be it . user interface : marketing : maybe a banana or courgette or something . project manager : marketing : how how far we actually want to go along and sort of follow the trends , do we think the trends are particularly important for this type of gadget , or or you know , do they not matter that much ? user interface : i think if you start making the buttons fruit shaped , it might make it more complicated to use . project manager : well you were just talking about you 've got to be careful how you shape your buttons , 'cause you 're can mis-direct people . and i would 've thought the functionality 'cause the people get cheesed off by things by having to read instructions et cetera , so . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : maybe just one button , say the standby button is quite kinda separate from all the other functions . maybe that could be a little apple . marketing : maybe yeah . project manager : okay . now ? yeah . user interface : and then that would n't get in the way of like kinda one to nine , industrial designer : user interface : and it would n't confuse the numbers . project manager : stand-by button . no th that that incorporates the trend whilst at the same time not confusing people , if you 're looking for functionality . industrial designer : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well i dunno i i guess maybe fruit and vegetables may be popular at the moment , but as we know how fickle the fashion markets are , project manager : but what are they gon na be next yeah . what are they gon na be next year . industrial designer : maybe marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : hmm . s project manager : but but th but okay but you you can incorporate the tr if y if you change all the buttons then you 've got the problem that this year 's fruit and veg , next year 's uh i was gon na say animals or elephants or w whatever . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , project manager : that means you 're constantly changing your production schedule , marketing : i 'm not project manager : and you 've got ta make different moulds and everything else , marketing : yeah . project manager : so that 's not a good idea i would i would suggest . marketing : i 'm not i 'm not sure what what what the sort of timescale we 're thinking of selling the product over is . i do n't know . industrial designer : i mean it just seems realistic that the remote control market is n't the kind of thing which takes in those kinds of fashion trends . marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : to something which is maybe more universal . project manager : well user interface : but i suppose as long as it 's quite a subtle design , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : um even if the design kind of changes , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : we c maybe can imply a fruit shape possibly . project manager : ah d d but if marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : maybe the spongy feel is something we could think about , um . project manager : mm-hmm . well . yep . industrial designer : maybe still with a rubber design we could project manager : was that in the sort of fashion sense that this or was the spongy feel was that uh sort of fashion ? it was , was n't it ? marketing : yeah . project manager : so the user interface : it seems like you 're gon na have rubber cases , as well as buttons . marketing : yeah . yeah . user interface : and that you can make them curved or double-curved and that would be the kind of sleek and sexy look . industrial designer : oh yeah yeah one of the things were if you had rubber buttons then you had to have a rubber case . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um oh no no no user interface : oh right , that fits , does n't it ? industrial designer : sorry it 's if you use the uh rubber double curved case then you must use rubber buttons . that 's the way round . if you have the rubber case then you have to have the rubber buttons to go with it . which makes sense . user interface : right . project manager : rubber buttons require rubber case . user interface : and that would fit in with what we want , would n't it , for the spongy feel , to have everything rubber . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh so , yeah . the m the main problem is how f how frequently do the fashions change ? 'cause in essence in the production you want things to stay you want to basically mint them out marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause if you 've got fashion changes and that you 're incorporating , then it means that your stock is um is last year 's stock marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and therefore you 're selling it or having to sell it at a discounted rate which you would n't want to do . whereas if you kept the product the same but you could have a difference from year to year , uh it seems to me that you could incorporate a fashion statement if you like , rather than changing the whole kit and caboodle . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : you 're just changing one aspect like like the standby button or something like that , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : and especially 'cause then you could make it something that industrial designer : i suppose we maybe are limited in the fact that we still have to put the logo on the actual marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well , you might be limited in space , that yes . industrial designer : would or not . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well you two are obviously gon na find that out fairly quickly when you move over to your kit modelling stage as to uh how much pl how much how much how pliable is plasticine . industrial designer : yes yes . user interface : industrial designer : maybe we could think of the the cases like changing with the fashions project manager : industrial designer : like the nokia phones where you could take the casing off the outside . but whether that would be too much to incorporate in production , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : whether that would just increase the costs , make it more complicated . project manager : so you 're talking there about uh changing changing the casing . marketing : that 's possibly it . industrial designer : yeah the a the actual the sort of the look from the outside , so where the buttons would stay the same , and the general function of the remote would stay the same , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but you could change the the way it looked . user interface : yeah and then you could have oh but you still would have to have the logo on every new case , industrial designer : yeah , that 's true . user interface : but you could have like pink cases for girls and red ones and things like that . project manager : yeah you you could do a colour change , so therefore you would yeah yeah i mean that 's effectively what they did with the with the mobile phones , was to have some in blue , some in red , some in rather than all in black industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : or , you know , which four do you want , as long as it 's black ? but uh so industrial designer : so it is a possibility , um . user interface : but we are supposed to use the um company colour scheme , are n't we ? project manager : yes oh that 's true user interface : we have n't really seen that yet industrial designer : oh okay yes project manager : uh that might no marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that is user interface : it might and we might be able to do both but it might clash with certain things . project manager : well not necessarily , because you could have your company uh we 're we 're meant to be finishing up . you could have your company badge and logo . i mean a lot of um computers for instance like like on the one you 've got there , it actually has a sort of um stick on badge marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so what you would al all you would really need , whether it , you know , whether the casing be w any colour , could be any colour , but that badge would then have to stick out on top of it so that uh in a sense , with a with a logo like that , because it 's on a white background , the only colour that it might not stick out so well on would be a white casing . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : 'cause you you know you 're sort of you 're badging it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and in fact a lot of companies get somebody else to make them and literally just badge them themselves with their own uh badge over the top . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : and in fact the way they 've got that there even if you had that on a white , which is the predominant colour of the uh the windows badge , you 'd still be able to see it clearly from you know a white casing uh product . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah . and whether we 'd have a big enough market to have this kind of like secondary market of selling the cases might be something to consider . user interface : well if it 's for young people , um like the phone generation , that sort of thing 'd probably go down well , marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and the market research has been on that side of things , has n't it ? marketing : yeah , i mean it 's people say that it 's the look , they want the fancy looking thing but i 'm yeah . i 'm not convinced on whether having changeable covers would be something that people would buy into . i think with the mobiles , it 's the , you know it 's a communication device , people see you with it all about and industrial designer : yeah i suppose , user interface : industrial designer : where you you keep the remote hidden under the sofa most of the time . marketing : i if it project manager : it 's uh in in the house , is n't it , i suppose . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay , so if we just went for one colour of a rubber case marketing : i think project manager : so do n't change case . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : change case colour . and we 're sort of saying no to that . user interface : did we decide on the rubber case ? the spongy feel , or did we think that that might go as a trend ? marketing : well , it was different last year . the trend was different last year apparently . it was not not spongy feel . but i do n't know whether the trend will change . i do n't know whether it 's one of those things that like sort of having all fruit shaped keys , that that probably would go out of fashion very quickly , project manager : yeah . marketing : whereas just the fact that it was a rubber case is probably less less of something that y you 're gon na end up hating in a year , you know . industrial designer : yeah , less likely to project manager : sounds reasonable . if you 're going for fashion trends like that they 'll need t you 'd have to have interchangeable cases industrial designer : so then th th that would project manager : so that you could industrial designer : yeah . project manager : or 'cause otherwise someone 's gon na have to buy a complete new remote rather than just a case . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it seems to make sense that we we 'd just maybe stick with the standard rubber case , and then have the standard rubber buttons as well . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . user interface : uh we have n't really talked about uh the curvature of the case . there 's flat , marketing : user interface : there 's single-curved and there 's double-curved . industrial designer : um . mayb user interface : i 'm not exactly sure what these things look like . industrial designer : maybe curves give it like the slightly more aesthetic feel ? but the double curve would n't require us to perform miracles with the plasticine . user interface : marketing : project manager : user interface : well it says that marketing : when you say d when you say double-curved , what what exactly does that mean ? user interface : i 'm not exactly sure . um i 'll show you the remotes that i 've got . marketing : okay . user interface : see how uh let 's just get that bigger . see how uh the one oh i 'm not plugged in , am i ? marketing : no you 're not connected to me anymore . industrial designer : user interface : that does n't help . project manager : one one thing to cons user interface : shall i just turn it round for time ? project manager : one thing to consider is that in some ways you want um by having a fairly standard case it means they can all fit together on top of each other marketing : that should come up . project manager : therefore for storage purposes in shops and the like and it makes it easier that you can if you can store them up on top of each other . marketing : mm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : whereas if you do um fancy things with it , you then got ta put it in a ca a a packaging box that that does that . and the cost of packaging could be quite important vis-a-vis the total cost of the product . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so shall we go through quickly and just work out what we 've decide on , if we have to kind of project manager : so but marketing : yeah . user interface : um it 's not very clear up there , but you can see some of them have got kind of bulges , like the second one and the end one uh where there 's a curve there . project manager : mm yep . marketing : right . user interface : i 'm not exactl i do n't know if a double curve is maybe it comes up slightly , or ? marketing : that 's what i was trying to work out . user interface : but um it is a kinda sleeker look if you 've got curves in there . project manager : oh right . s so do you wan na go for curves , more curves ? marketing : shall we project manager : we 're meant to be f we 're meant to be finishing this meeting in about a minute or so . user interface : definitely a single , maybe a double . industrial designer : 'kay , so shall we quickly marketing : yeah . user interface : shall we go for single curve , just to compromise ? industrial designer : we 'll go for single curve , yeah . project manager : okay , industrial designer : single curve . marketing : okay . project manager : curved or double curved ? so it 's single curved . industrial designer : so did we did we decide on the kinetic power supply ? the one you move around ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah i think that think that 's a good idea . industrial designer : okay . um user interface : and the rubber push buttons , rubber case . marketing : rubber rubber buttons and case . user interface : um and we do n't really know much about the colour scheme or logo yet do we , industrial designer : oh we ca user interface : but possibly a sticker . industrial designer : yeah yeah , we 'll still have the are we gon na go for the simple circuit board just to keep the cost down ? i th i think we can by by not having anything too complicated . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah and and the voice recognition , we can use that ca n't we , just to find it . without affecting the circuit board . project manager : yes . yep . industrial designer : um . marketing : yeah yeah . industrial designer : and see we could always decide against it if something comes up that 's just something to that we seemed to leave out . marketing : okay . and then are we going for sort of one button shaped like a fruit . or veg . user interface : yeah that sounds like it would n't do too much harm in a couple of years . uh what sort of shape do we want ? project manager : so we 've got spongy feel buttons as well , have we ? marketing : do n't know , maybe just project manager : as well as or w or was that marketing : yeah . that 's ru rubber buttons , yeah . project manager : so it 's rubber buttons , industrial designer : yeah , it was just project manager : so it 's not really spongy feel buttons , it 's just rubber buttons . with a rubber case right ? industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , so it 's not too wacky . marketing : reasonably spongy i guess , yeah . project manager : and the standby button is gon na be different . marketing : yeah okay . user interface : um i think an apple would be a good recognisable shape . if you start getting into kinda aubergines and things , it gets a bit weird . marketing : project manager : okay so what what shape are we making the standby button ? marketing : yeah . apple ? project manager : a apple . user interface : vote ? project manager : oh oh sorry ? marketing : yeah . user interface : shall we vote on it ? industrial designer : we will go for the a a a apples apples . marketing : yeah . user interface : anyone got any suggestions ? marketing : apple apple a a qu quite a big one , as well . project manager : user interface : okay . ah . marketing : a big apple . uh user interface : well it could be red . marketing : could be a red apple , yeah . either , do n't mind . project manager : a red apple ? is it ? user interface : yeah 'cause we wan na incorporate a bit of colour if we can , once we find out um industrial designer : okay . and then we 're gon na are you gon na work on keeping the button design quite simple ? just like the just working out what we 're gon na do for the next time . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . yeah that seems pretty straight forward . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : 'cause most of them will just be kind of mainly circular or like very plain . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : mm-hmm . okay . project manager : sorry what was that last thing again there ? user interface : uh just to keep the shape of the buttons simple . project manager : right much option on that . i thought you were going for a single curve and user interface : ah just the uh shape of the buttons . project manager : alright . industrial designer : and j yeah , just keeping the sort of the labelling them labelling of them fairly simple as well . fairly sort of self explanatory . user interface : yeah . project manager : right , so shape of buttons simple . okay . so that 's that , i guess . we should now go away and get these things sorted out . i guess you two are on plasticine duty or whatever . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay , so um . industrial designer : is that the end ? okay . marketing : looks like it . </s>
<s> what did marketing suggest about the shape and materials of buttons when discussing the design of the remote ? </s> marketing : i 've i 've got some things to say about possible design things from trend watching . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , maybe we should see yours first . user interface : oh okay . marketing : cool . right , um i 've been looking at some trends in in sort of basically fashion on top of doing the um research into the remote control market the the one that 's the one i talked about last time , that we 'd sort of asked people about remote controls and what what was good about them , what was bad , what they used . and we 've also been looking at sort of fa sort of fashions and what people are wanting out of consumer goods at the moment . so we 've had people in paris and milan watching the uh fashion trends . industrial designer : project manager : you know yourself . marketing : so user interface : marketing : so just to summarise the most important things which came out of the remote control market investigation . the most important thing was that the thing sort of look and felt fancy rather than just functional . industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : and second , there should be some technological innovation . and then third and l less important than the other two , there should be an ease of use as well . and apparently , the fashion trends are that people want sort of clothes and shoes and things with a fruit and vegetables theme . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um but um the feel of the material should be spongy , industrial designer : marketing : which is contrary to last year , apparently . i presume it must have been not not spongy last year . project manager : user interface : marketing : so we need to emphasise the fancy design with on on our remote control above all else . and then also try and add in technological informat innovation which could be our sort of find the thing with a hand clap . and then we need to ma sort of make it easy to use that 's as a third priority , so perhaps um fewer fewer buttons and functions as we 've as we 've discussed . user interface : marketing : and then maybe find a way to incorporate these trends so that we sort of capture people 's imaginations . so maybe we could make the buttons shaped like fruit and veg , or the the buttons could be spongy , uh somehow . maybe we could make them out of rubber rather than sort of hard plastic . and then sort of even wackier than that , we could maybe have a fruit or vegetable shaped remote , say in the shape of a banana or something like that . right , so that 'll be it . user interface : marketing : maybe a banana or courgette or something . project manager : </s>
<s> what did user interface suggest about the shape of the button when discussing the design of the remote ? </s> user interface : i think if you start making the buttons fruit shaped , it might make it more complicated to use . project manager : well you were just talking about you 've got to be careful how you shape your buttons , 'cause you 're can mis-direct people . and i would 've thought the functionality 'cause the people get cheesed off by things by having to read instructions et cetera , so . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : maybe just one button , say the standby button is quite kinda separate from all the other functions . maybe that could be a little apple . marketing : maybe yeah . project manager : okay . now ? yeah . user interface : and then that would n't get in the way of like kinda one to nine , industrial designer : </s>
<s> what were the resolutions in the meeting ? </s> grad b : sorry . mental mental palm pilot . right . hence no problem . grad f : let 's see . so . what ? i 'm supposed to be on channel five ? her . nope . does n't seem to be , grad b : hello i 'm channel one . grad f : yeah . grad e : what does your thing say on the back ? grad d : testing . grad f : nnn , five . alright , i 'm five . grad d : sibilance . sibilance . { comment } three , three . i am three . see , that matches the seat up there . so . grad f : yeah , well , i g guess it 's coming up then , or grad d : cuz it 's that starts counting from zero and these start counting from one . ergo , the classic off - by - one error . grad b : but mine is correct . grad d : is it ? grad b : it 's one . channel one . grad d : your mike number is what we 're t grad e : look at the back . grad b : oh , oh , oh ! oh . so grad d : i 've bested you again , nancy . grad b : but your p no , but the paper 's correct . grad d : the paper is correct . grad b : look at the paper . grad d : i did n't det i was saying the microphone , not the paper . professor c : it 's n it 's always offset . yeah . grad b : yes , you 've bested me again . that 's how i think of our continuing interaction . damn ! foiled again ! grad d : so is keith showing up ? he 's talking with george right now . uh , is he gon na get a rip uh rip himself away from from that ? grad b : he 'll probably come later . professor c : what he - he he 's probably not , is my guess . grad d : oh , then it 's just gon na be the five of us ? professor c : yeah . grad e : well , he he was very affirmative in his way of saying he will be here at four . but you know , that was before he knew about that george lecture probably . professor c : right . this this is not it 's not bad for the project if keith is talking to george . ok . so my suggestion is we just grad b : forge ahead . professor c : forge ahead , yeah . grad e : cool . grad b : are you in charge ? grad e : sure . um . well , i sort of had informal talks with most of you . so , eva just reported she 's really happy about the cbt 's being in the same order in the xml as in the um be java declaration format grad f : yeah . the e grad e : so you do n't have to do too much in the style sheet transversion . grad f : uh , yeah . yeah , so . grad e : the uh , java the embedded bayes wants to take input uh , uh , a bayes - net in in some java notation and eva is using the xalan style sheet processor to convert the xml that 's output by the java bayes for the into the , uh , e bayes input . grad f : actually , maybe i could try , like , emailing the guy and see if he has any something already . professor c : sure . grad f : that 'd be weird , that he has both the java bayes and the embedded bayes in grad d : but that 's some sort of conversion program ? grad f : yeah . yeah . and put them into different formats . oh grad d : i think you should demand things from him . grad f : yep , he could do that , too . professor c : he charges so much . right . grad d : yeah . professor c : no , i think it 's a good idea that you may as well ask . sure . grad f : yeah . grad e : and , um , well pretty mu pretty much on t on the top of my list , i would have asked keith how the `` where is x ? `` hand parse is standing . um . but we 'll skip that . uh , there 's good news from johno . the generation templates are done . grad d : so the trees for the xml trees for the for the gene for the synthesizer are written . so i just need to do the , uh write a new set of tree combining rules . but i think those 'll be pretty similar to the old ones . so . just gon na be you know professor c : oh ! you were gon na send me a note about hiring i did n't finish the sentence but he understood it . grad d : i know what he 's talking about . professor c : ok . but nancy does n't . grad b : hiring somebody . grad e : we w um grad d : the guy . grad e : ok , so natural language generation produces not a just a surface string that is fed into a text - to - speech but , a surface string with a syntax tree that 's fed into a concept - to - speech . grad b : yeah . mm - hmm . better . grad e : now and this concept - to - speech module has certain rules on how if you get the following syntactic structure , how to map this onto prosodic rules . grad b : mm - hmm . sure . mm - hmm . grad e : and fey has foolheartedly agreed to rewrite uh , the german concept uh syntax - to - prosody rules grad b : i did n't know she spoke german . grad e : no , she does n't . grad b : oh , ok . grad e : but she speaks english . grad b : oh . rewrite the german ones into english . ok , got it . grad e : into english . and um therefore the , uh if it 's ok that we give her a couple of more hours per week , then she 'll do that . grad b : ok , got it . grad d : what language is that written i is that that scheme thing that you showed me ? grad e : yeah . that 's the lisp - type scheme . grad d : she knows how to program in scheme ? i hope ? grad e : no , i my guess is i i asked for a commented version of that file ? if we get that , then it 's doable , even without getting into it , even though the scheme li uh , stuff is really well documented in the festival . grad d : well , i guess if you 're not used to functional programming , scheme can be completely incomprehensible . cuz , there 's no like there 's lots of unnamed functions professor c : syntax . yeah . grad d : and grad b : mm - hmm . grad d : you know ? professor c : anyway , it we 'll sort this out . um . but anyway , send me the note and then i 'll - i 'll check with , uh , morgan on the money . i i do n't anticipate any problem but we have to ask . oh , so this was you know , on the generation thing , um if { comment } sh y she 's really going to do that , then we should be able to get prosody as well . so it 'll say it 's nonsense with perfect intonation . grad d : are we gon na can we change the voice of the of the thing , because right now the voice sounds like a murderer . grad e : yep . we ha we have to change the voice . grad b : wh - which one ? grad d : the the little smarticus smarticus sounds like a murderer . grad a : that 's good to know . grad d : `` i have your reservations . `` grad a : but i will not give them to you unless you come into my lair . grad e : it is uh , we have the choice between the , uh , usual festival voices , which i already told the smartkom people we are n't gon na use because they 're really bad . grad b : festival ? professor c : it 's the name of some program , grad b : oh , oh . got it . ok . professor c : the the synthesizer . grad a : you know , the usual party voices . grad e : but , um grad b : yeah , i know . that does n't sound , exactly right either . grad e : ogi has , uh , crafted a couple of diphone type voices that are really nice and we 're going to use that . we can still , um , d agree on a gender , if we want . so we still have male or female . grad b : i think well , let 's just pick whatever sounds best . whatever sounds best . unfortunately , probably male voices , a bit more research on . grad d : does ogi stand for ? { comment } original german institute ? grad e : oregon . grad b : oregon graduate insti professor c : oregon @ @ { comment } graduate institute grad e : try oregon . professor c : it turns out there 's the long - standing links with these guys in the speech group . very long . in fact , there 's this guy who 's basically got a joint appointment , hynek hermansky . he 's - spends a fair amount of time here . anyway . leave it . wo n't be a problem . grad e : ok . and it 's probably also absolutely uninteresting for all of you to , um learn that as of twenty minutes ago , david and i , per accident , uh managed to get the whole smartkom system running on the uh , icsi linux machines with the icsi nt machines thereby increasing the number of running smartkom systems in this house from one on my laptop to three . grad b : mmm , that 's good . grad d : how was this by accident ? grad b : yeah , i know . tha - that 's the part i did n't understand . grad e : um , i suggested to try something that was really kind of even though against better knowledge should n't have worked , but it worked . intuition . grad a : yeah . grad b : will it work again , grad e : maybe maybe maybe a bit for the ai i intuition thing . grad b : or ? grad d : yeah . grad e : ok . and , um , we 'll never found out why . it - it 's just like why why the generation ma the presentation manager is now working ? grad a : hmm ! this is something you ha you get used to as a programmer , right ? you know , { comment } and it 's cool , it works out that way . grad e : hmm . so , the the people at saarbruecken and i decided not to touch it ever again . yeah , that would work . ok . um i was gon na ask you where something is and what we know about that . grad a : where ok . grad b : where the `` where is `` construction is . grad a : what what thing is this ? grad e : where is x ? oh , but by uh , we can ask , uh , did you get to read all four hundred words ? professor c : i did . grad e : was it ok ? was it ? professor c : yeah . grad d : i i wa i was looking at it . it does n't follow logically . it does n't the first paragraph does n't seem to have any link to the second paragraph . grad a : and so on . professor c : yeah . grad d : yeah . grad e : hmm . that professor c : you know , i yeah , it grad d : each paragraph is good , though . i li professor c : i i yeah . well , it it 's fine . grad a : it was written by committee . professor c : anyway . um . but c the meeting looks like it 's , it 's gon na be good . so . i think it 's uh grad e : yeah . grad b : yeah , i did n't know about it until robert told me , like , professor c : yeah , i i ra i ran across it in i do n't even know where , you know some just some weird place . and , uh , yeah , i i 'm surprised i did n't know about it grad b : y yeah . well , yeah . i was like , why did n't dan tell me ? professor c : since we know all the invited speakers , an grad a : right . professor c : right , or some anyway . so but anyway , yeah . i so i i did see that . oh wha yeah . before we get started on this st so i also had a nice email correspondence with daphne kohler , who said yes indeed she would love to work with us on the , um , you know , using these structured belief - nets and stuff but starting in august , that she 's also got a new student working on this and that we should get in touch with them again in august and then we 'll figure out a way for you uh you to get seriously connected with , um their group . so that 's , uh looks pretty good . and um yeah , i 'll say it now . so , um and it looks to me like { comment } we 're now at a good point to do something start working on something really hard . we 've been so far working on things that are easy . uh , w which is { comment } mental spaces and uh and - or grad b : it 's hard . yeah , it 's hard . grad a : yeah . grad b : yeah . professor c : it 's a hard puzzle . but the other part of it is the way they connect to these , uh , probabilistic relational models . so there 's all the problems that the linguists know about , about mental spaces , and the cognitive linguists know about , but then there 's this problem of the belief - net people have only done a moderately good job of dealing with temporal belief - nets . uh , which they call dynamic they incorrectly call dynamic belief - nets . so there 's a term `` dynamic belief - net `` , does n't mean that . it means time slices . and srini used those and people use them . uh . but one of the things i w would like to do over the next , uh , month , it may take more , { comment } is to st understand to what extent we can not only figure out the constructions for them for multiple worlds and uh sort of what the formalism will look like and where the slots and fillers will be , but also what that would translate into in terms of belief - net and the inferences . so the story is that if you have these probabilistic relational models , they 're set up , in principle , so that you can make new instances and instances connect to each other , and all that sort of stuff , so it should be feasible to set them up in such a way that if you 've got the past tense and the present tense and each of those is a separate uh , belief structure that they do their inferences with just the couplings that are appropriate . but that 's g that 's , as far as i can tell , it 's it 's putting together two real hard problems . one is the linguistic part of what are the couplings and and when you have a certain , uh , construction , that implies certain couplings and other couplings , you know , between let 's say between the past and the present , or any other one of these things and then we have this inference problem of exactly technically how does the belief - net work if it 's got um , let 's say one in in , you know , different tenses or my beliefs and your beliefs , or any of these other ones of of multiple models . so um you know , in the long run we need to solve both of those and my suggestion is that we start digging into them both , uh , in a way we that , you know , th hopefully turns out to be consistent , so that the um . and sometimes it 's actually easier to solve two hard problems than one grad a : yeah . professor c : because they constrain each other . i mean if you 've got huge ra huge range of possible choices um we 'll see . but anyway , so that 's , um grad a : oh yeah , like uh , i solved the the problem of um we were talking about how do you various issues of how come a plural noun gets to quote `` count as a noun phrase `` , you know , occur as an argument of a higher construction , but a bare singular stem does n't get to act that way . professor c : right . grad a : um , and it would take a really long time to explain it now , but i 'm about to write it up this evening . i solved that at the same time as `` how do we keep adjectives from floating to the left of determiners and how do we keep all of that from floating outside the noun phrase `` to get something like `` i the kicked dog `` . um . did it did it at once . professor c : that 's great . grad a : so maybe maybe it 'll be a similar thing . grad b : cool . professor c : yeah . no , i know , i th i i think that is gon na be sort of the key to this wh to th the big project of the summer of of getting the constructions right is that people do manage to do this so there probably are some , uh , relatively clean rules , they 're just not context - free trees . grad a : right . professor c : and if we if the formalism is is good , then we should be able to have , you know , sort of moderate scale thing . and that by the way is is , keith , what i encouraged george to be talking with you about . not the formalism yet grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : but the phenomena . grad a : yeah . professor c : the p and oh , another thing , um there was this , uh thing that nancy agreed to in a in a weak moment this morning that grad b : i was really strong . professor c : uh , sorry . in a in a friendly moment . grad a : same thing . professor c : anyway , uh , that we were that we 're gon na try to get a uh , first cut at the revised formalism by the end of next week . grad a : alright . professor c : ok ? probably skipping the mental spaces part . grad b : seems grad a : right . i do . professor c : uh , just trying to write up essentially what what you guys have worked out so that everybody has something to look at . we 've talked about it , but only the innermost inner group currently , uh , grad a : mm - hmm . knows . professor c : knows , uh grad b : yeah , and and not even all of them really do . grad a : yeah . grad b : but like professor c : right . grad a : there 's the group as a whole knows but no individual member kno professor c : well that that yeah th there 's one of the advantages of a document , right ? , grad a : yeah . professor c : is is that it actually transfers from head to head . grad b : right . professor c : so anyway . so um grad b : ah , communication ! communication . grad a : hunh ! professor c : communication , documentation and stuff . anyway , so , uh , with a little luck uh l let 's , let 's have that as a goal anyway . grad a : so , uh , what was the date there ? professor c : and grad a : monday or ? it 's a friday . professor c : no , no , no . no , w uh we 're talking about a week fr e end of next week . grad a : end of next week . grad b : but , uh , but but the two of us will probably talk to you at well before th grad a : i thought you said beginning of n yeah . grad b : i mean . anyway , w let 's talk separately about how t grad a : yeah , i have a busy weekend but after that { comment } yeah , gung - ho . professor c : ok . yeah , so so someti sometime next week . grad a : great , professor c : now if it turns out that that effort leads us into some big hole that 's fine . grad a : mm - hmm . ok . professor c : you know , if you say we 're we 're dump dump dump . there 's a really hard problem we have n't solved yet that , that 's just fine . grad b : mm - hmm . grad a : but at at least sort of try and work out what the state of the art is right now . professor c : right , t t if to the extent that we have it , let 's write it and to the extent we do n't , let 's find out what we need to do . so , uh grad e : can we ? is it worth thinking of an example out of our tourism thing domain , that involves a a a decent mental space shift or setting up professor c : i think it is , but uh but i interrupted before keith got to tell us what happened with `` where is the powder - tower ? `` or whatever grad b : right . grad a : well . uh , what was supposed to happen ? i 've sort of been actually caught up in some other ones , so , um , you know , i do n't have a write - up of or i have n't elaborated on the ideas that we were already talking about which were grad e : hmm , yeah . i think i think we already came to the conclusion that we have two alternative paths that we two alternative ways of representing it . one is sort of a has a um grad a : it 's gone . the question of whether the polysemy is sort of like in the construction or pragmatic . grad b : one of them was th right . grad e : or comes grad b : right . grad e : is resolved later . yeah . grad a : i think it has to be the the second case . grad e : yeah . grad a : um , so d ' you is it clear what we 're talking about here ? grad b : i agree . grad a : the question is whether the construction is semantic or like ambiguous between asking for location and asking for path . professor c : uh grad b : so you might be yeah , y and asking for directions . grad e : it 's grad a : um or or whether the construction semantically , uh , is clearly only asking for location grad e : should we have a a a grad b : uh grad a : but pragmatically that 's construed as meaning `` tell me how to get there `` . professor c : mm - hmm . yep . grad e : so assume these are two , uh , nodes we can observe in the bayes - net . grad b : yeah . professor c : right . grad e : so these are either true or false and it 's also just true or false . if we encounter a phrase such as `` where is x ? `` , should that set this to true and this to true , and the bayes - net figures out which under the c situation in general is more likely ? um , or should it just activate this , have this be false , and the bayes - net figures out whether this actually now means ? professor c : uh w that 's a s grad b : slightly different . professor c : ok , so that 's a that 's a separate issue . so i a i i th i agree with you that , um , it 's a disaster to try to make separate constructions for every uh , pragmatic reading , grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : although there are some that will need to be there . grad b : good . mm - hmm . grad a : right . grad b : right . professor c : i mean , there there 's some that grad b : or have every construction list all the possible pragmatic implications of the same one . professor c : you ca n't do that either . grad b : right . yeah . professor c : yeah . but , you know , c um almost certainly `` can you pass the salt `` is a construction worth noting that there is this th this this this uh grad a : yeah . grad b : request . grad a : mm - hmm . yeah . grad b : very yeah . grad a : so right , this one is maybe in the gray area . is it is it like that or is it just sort of obvious from world knowledge that no one you would n't want to know the location without wanting to know how to get there or whatever . professor c : ri yeah . grad e : one or in some cases , it 's it 's quite definitely professor c : yeah . grad e : s so that you just know wan na know where it is . grad a : yeah . well the question is basically , is this conventional or conversational implicature ? professor c : exactly . yeah . grad b : might be , yeah . professor c : and i guess , see , the more important thing at this stage is that we should be able to know how we would handle it in ei f in the short run it 's more important to know how we would treat technically what we would do if we decided a and what we would do if we decided b , than it is t to decide a or b r right now . grad a : ok , right . grad b : right . right . grad a : which of that is . { comment } yeah , ok grad b : which one it is . cuz there will be other k examples that are one way or the other . right . professor c : w we know for sure that we have to be able to do both . grad a : yeah . professor c : so i guess in the short run , let 's let 's be real clear on h what the two alternatives would be . grad e : and then the we had another idea floating around um , which we wanted to , uh , get your input on , and that concerns the but the nice thing is w we would have a person that would like to work on it , and that 's ir - irina gurevich from eml who is going to be visiting us , uh , the week before , uh , august and a little bit into august . and she would like to apply the ontology that is , um being crafted at eml . that 's not the one i sent you . the one i sent you was from gmd , out of a european crumpet . professor c : it was terrible . grad e : agreed . um , and one of the reas one of the those ideas was , so , back to the old johno observation that if y if you have a dialogue history and it said the word `` admission fee `` was uh , mentioned um , it 's more likely that the person actually wants to enter than just take a picture of it from the outside . now what could imagine to , you know , have a list for each construction of things that one should look up in the discourse history , yeah ? that 's the really stupid way . then there is the really clever way that was suggested by keith and then there is the , uh , middle way that i 'm suggesting and that is you you get x , which is whatever , the castle . the ontology will tell us that castles have opening hours , that they have admission fees , they have whatever . and then , this is we go via a thesaurus and look up certain linguistic surface structures that are related to these concepts and feed those through the dialogue history and check dynamically for each e entity . we look it up check whether any of these were mentioned and then activate the corresponding nodes on the discourse side . but keith suggested that a a much cleaner way would be is , you know , to keep track of the discourse in such a way that you if you know that something like that ha has been mentioned before , this just a continues to add up , you know , in th in a grad a : so if someone mentions admission f fees , that activates an enter schema which sticks around for a little while in your rep in the representation of what 's being talked about . and then when someone asks `` where is x ? `` you 've already got the the enter schema activated grad b : kind of a priming professor c : mm - hmm . grad a : and you 're able to to conclude on it . professor c : yeah . grad b : priming a spreading activation grad a : yeah . professor c : right . yeah . so that 's certainly more realistic . grad a : right . professor c : i m i mean psychologically . now technically grad a : yeah . grad d : well , uh , is it does n't it seem like if you just managed the dialogue history with a a thread , that you know , kept track of ho of the activity of i mean , cuz it would the the thread would know what nodes like , needed to be activated , so it could just keep track of how long it 's been since something 's been mentioned , and automatically load it in . professor c : yeah . you could do that . um . but here 's here 's a way in th in the bl bayes - net you could you could think about it this way , that if um at the time `` admissions fee `` was mentioned you could increase the probability that someone wanted to enter . grad b : turn prior on . grad d : we - yeah th th that 's what i wa i was n't i was i was n't thinking in terms of enter schemas . i was just professor c : fair enough , ok , but , but , in terms of the c c the current implementation right ? so that um grad b : it would already be higher in the context . professor c : th that th the the the conditional probability that someone so at the time you mentioned it this is this is essentially the bayes - net equivalent of the spreading activation . grad a : mm - hmm . yeah . professor c : it 's in some ways it 's not as good but it 's the implementation we got . grad a : yeah , sure . no , i mean professor c : we do n't have a connectionist implementation . now now my guess is that it 's not a question of time but it is a question of whether another intervening object has been mentioned . grad b : yeah , relevance . grad a : yeah . grad b : yeah . professor c : i mean , we could look at dialo this is of course the other thing we ha we do is , is we have this data coming grad a : yeah . professor c : which probably will blow all our theories , grad a : yeah , right . professor c : but but skipping that so so but my guess is what what 'll probably will happen , here 's a here 's a proposed design . { comment } is that there 're certain constructions which , uh , for our purposes do change the probabilities of eva decisions and various other kinds and th that the , uh , standard way that that the these contexts work is sort of stack - like or whatever , but that 's sort of the most recent thing . and so it could be that when another uh , en tourist entity gets mentioned , you re re essentially re - initiali you know , re - i essentially re - initialize the state . grad b : yeah . grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : and of course i if we had a fancier one with multiple worlds you could have uh , you could keep track of what someone was uh saying about this and that . grad a : yeah . professor c : you know , `` i wan na go in the morning grad a : `` here 's my plan for today . professor c : i wan na `` grad a : here 's my plan for tomorrow . `` professor c : yeah , or yeah , in the morning morning i i 'm planning t to go shopping , grad a : hypothetically . professor c : in the afternoon to the powder - tower grad a : yeah . professor c : uh , tal so i 'm talking about shopping and then you say , uh , you know , well , um `` what 's it cost ? `` or something . grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : or anyway . so one could well imagine , but not yet . grad a : yeah . professor c : but i do th think that the { comment } it 'll turn out that it 's gon na be depend pretty much on whether there 's been an override . grad e : yeah , i mean , if if you ask `` how much does a train ride and and cinema around the vineyards cost ? `` and then somebody tells you it 's sixty dollars and then you say `` ok how much is , uh i would like to visit the `` whatever , something completely different , `` then i go to , you know , point reyes `` , professor c : yeah . grad e : it it 's not more likely that you want to enter anything , but it 's , as a matter of fact , a complete rejection of entering by doing that . professor c : right . grad a : yeah . grad b : right . professor c : right . grad b : so when you admit have admission fee and it changes something , it 's only for that particular it 's relational , right ? it 's only for that particular object . professor c : yeah , i th th yeah . well , and and and the simple idea is that it 's on it 's only for m for the current uh , tourist e entity of instre interest . grad b : yeah . grad a : yeah . grad b : right . grad e : yeah . but that 's i mean this this function , so , has the current object been mentioned in in with a question about concerning its professor c : no , no . it 's it it goes the other d it goes in the other direction . is when th when the this is mentioned , the uh probability of of , let 's say , entering changes grad b : of that object . for but professor c : changes . grad b : right . grad d : you could just hav uh , just basically , ob it it observes an er , it sets the a node for `` entered `` or `` true `` or something , professor c : yeah . yeah . now , uh but i think ro - robert 's right , that to determine that , ok ? you may well want to go through a th thesaurus grad d : `` discourse enter `` . professor c : and and so , if the issue is , if so now th this construction has been matched and you say `` ok . does this actually have any implications for our decisions ? `` then there 's another piece of code that presumably does that computation . grad b : so , sort of forward chaining in a way , rather than backward . professor c : yeah . yeah . but but what 's robert 's saying is is , and i think he 's right , { comment } is you do n't want to try to build into the construction itself all the synonyms and all you know , all the wo uh maybe . i 'll have to think about that . i do n't know . i mean it th i can thi i can think of arguments in either direction on that . but somehow you want to do it . grad e : mm - hmm . well , it 's just another , sort of , construction side is how to get at the possible inferences we can draw from the discourse history or changing of the probabilities , and - or grad b : guess it 's like i g the other thing is , whether you have a m m user model that has , you know , whatever , a current plan , whatever , plans that had been discussed , and i do n't know , i mean grad d : what uh , what 's the argument for putting it in the construction ? is it just that the s synonym selection is better , or ? professor c : oh , wel well , the ar the the argument is that you 're gon na have the if you 've recognized the word , you 've recognized the word , which means you have a lexical construction for it , so you could just as well tag the lexical construction with the fact that it 's a uh , you know , thirty percent increase in probability of entering . you so you could you could you could invert invert the whole thing , so you s you tag that information on to the lexicon grad d : mmm . oh , i see . professor c : since you had to recognize it anyway . that that 's the argument in the other direction . at at yeah , and this is grad e : even though uh the lexical construction itself out out of context , uh , wo n't do it . i mean , y you have to keep track whether the person says grad b : yeah . grad e : `` but i but i 'm not interested in the opening times `` is sort of a more a v type . professor c : yeah there 's , yeah ther there 's that as well . grad e : yep . hmm . so . but , we 'll uh , we have time to this is a s just a sidetrack , but uh i think it 's also something that people have not done before , is um , sort of abuse an ontology for these kinds of , uh , inferences , on whether anything relevant to the current something has been uh , has crept up in the dialogue history already , or not . and , um i have the , uh if we wanted to have that function in the dialogue hi dialogue module of smartkom , i have the written consent of jan to put it in there . professor c : good . ok . { comment } well , this this is highly relevant to someone 's thesis . grad e : yes , um . that 's uh , i 'm i 'm keeping on good terms with jan . professor c : you 've noticed that . ok . grad e : yeah . professor c : so the point is , it 's very likely that robert 's thesis is going to be along these lines , grad b : oh , s professor c : and the local rules are if it 's your thesis , you get to decide how it 's done . ok . so if , you know if this is seriously , if this becomes part of your thesis , you can say , hey we 're gon na do it this way , that 's the way it 's done . grad b : yay , it 's not me . it 's always me when it 's someone 's thesis . professor c : no , no , no ! no , no . we 've got a lot we 've got a lot of theses going . grad a : there 's a few of us around now . grad b : now it 's not . yay ! i know it is . professor c : yeah . right . grad e : well , let 's let 's talk after friday the twenty - ninth . then we 'll see how f f professor c : right . so h he 's got a th he 's got a meet meeting in germany with his thesis advisor . grad b : yeah , he said he 's gon na f finish his thesis by then . grad a : oh yeah . grad e : yeah . i should try to finish it by then . yeah . professor c : oh , right . um . yeah . so i think in fact , that 's the other thing . uh , this is this is , speaking of hard problems , { comment } this is a very good time um , to start trying to make explicit where construal comes in and you know , where c where the construction per - se ends and where construal comes in , grad a : mm - hmm . grad e : mm - hmm . grad b : yeah , we 've we 've done quite a bit of that . professor c : cuz this is clearly part of th grad a : yeah . grad b : we 've been doing quite a bit of that . grad a : yeah . professor c : well i said . but that 's part of what the f grad b : we have many jobs for you , ro - robert . professor c : yeah . well , he 's gon na need this . grad a : yeah , it seems to always land in your category . grad b : the conclusion . grad a : you 're lucky . grad b : yeah . professor c : right . so . right . so thing that 's part of why we want the formalism , grad a : yeah . professor c : is is because th it is gon na have implicit in it grad e : was i ? in the room ? grad b : no , you were n't there on purpose . like professor c : yeah . grad a : made it much easier to make these decisions . grad b : obviously . yeah . professor c : right . well i that 's tentative . grad a : yeah . right , right , right . professor c : they are n't decisions , they 're ju they 're just proposals . grad a : yes . excuse me . grad b : no , they 're decisions . ok . professor c : yeah , that that 's the point , is is th grad a : yeah . grad e : constraints . let 's call them constraints , around which one has to professor c : yeah . grad b : actually , yeah . there 's a problem with that word , too , though . professor c : yeah . { comment } anyway . but so that 's that 's w yeah . grad d : yeah , but it he the decisions i made wer had to do with my thesis . so consequently do n't i get to decide then that it 's robert 's job ? grad a : anyhow . grad b : well , i 'll just pick a piece of the problem and then just push the hard stuff into the center and say it 's robert 's . like . grad e : i 've always been completely in favor of consensus decisions , grad b : i can professor c : right . grad e : so we 'll we 'll find a way . professor c : well , we we we will , but um grad b : i have n't . { comment } ok . professor c : not grad e : it it might even be interesting then to say that i should be forced to um , sort of pull some of the ideas that have been floating in my head out of the , uh out of the top hat and , um grad a : always good . professor c : right . so grad e : that metaphor is not going anywhere , you know . grad a : yeah . professor c : ri - no . absolutely . so , uh , wh you had you know you ha you had done one draft . grad e : yes , and , um , it 's ha - none of that is basically still around , grad b : i did n't get professor c : and a another draft ok . grad e : but it 's grad a : that 's normal . grad b : oh , i guess it 's good i did n't read it . professor c : i this is i 'm shocked . this is the first time i 've seen a thesis proposal change . right . anyway , uh . so . grad b : really ? professor c : but , yeah , a second that would be great . so , uh , a sec i mean you 're gon na need it anyway . grad e : yeah , and i would like to d discuss it and , you know , get you guys 's input professor c : right . grad e : and make it sort of bomb - proof . grad b : bomb proof ! grad a : good . grad e : bullet - proof . grad b : oh ! oh , ok . grad e : that 's the word i was looking for . professor c : both proof . grad a : either way . grad b : both . professor c : right . grad b : good luck . really . professor c : uh so that , so th thi this i mean , so this is the point , is we we 're going to have to cycle through this , grad a : yeah . professor c : but th the draft of the p proposal on the constructions is is going to tell us a lot about what we think needs to be done by construal . and , um , we oughta be doing it . grad e : ok . yeah , we need we need some then we need to make some dates . um . meeting regular meeting time for the summer , we really have n't found one . we did thursdays one for a while . i just talked to ami . it 's - it 's a coincidence that he ca n't do could n't do it today here . grad b : usually , he can . grad e : usually he has no real constraints . professor c : and the ntl meeting moved to wednesday , grad e : so professor c : cuz of of , uh grad e : yeah , it was just an exception . professor c : yeah , you were n't here , but but but s uh , and so , if that 's ok with you , grad a : it 's i is it staying basically at the wednesday noon ? professor c : you would grad a : ok . it was th off this week , grad b : yeah . i always thought it was staying . professor c : yeah , it was th grad a : yeah . grad b : yeah , i thought it was just this week that we were changing it . professor c : right . grad e : mmm . yeah . and , um . how do we feel about doing it wednesdays ? because it seems to me that this is sort of a time where when we have things to discuss with other people , there they seem to be s tons of people around . professor c : the only disadvantage is that it may interfere with other grad e : or subgroup meetings professor c : s you know , other other no , you uh , people in this group connecting with with grad b : those people who happen to be around . professor c : those people who who might not be around so much . uh , i do n't care . i i uh you know i have no fixed grad a : to tell you the truth , i 'd rath i 'd , i 'd would like to avoid more than one icsi meeting per day , if possible . but i mean . i do n't know . whatever . professor c : no , that 's fine . i mean that grad e : the i 'd like to have them all in one day , grad a : yeah , i can understand that . professor c : well p grad e : so package them up and then professor c : people people differ in their tastes in this matter . grad a : yeah . professor c : i i 'm neutral . grad a : yeah . grad b : yeah . i 'm always here anyway , grad e : it 's ok , that grad b : so it does n't matter . professor c : yeah . @ @ that 's me too . i 'm basically i 'm here . so . grad e : well , if one sort of thing is , this room is taken at after three - thirty pr pretty much every day by the data collection . so we have subjects anyway except for this week , we have subjects in here . that 's why it was one . so we just knew i grad b : so did you just say that ami ca n't make one o ' grad e : no , he can . grad b : oh , ok . grad e : so let 's say thursday one . but for next week , this is a bit late . so i would suggest that we need to to talk grad b : oh , oh , ok . grad e : ok . about the c the th grad b : could we do thursday at one - thirty ? would that that be horrible ? grad e : no . yes . grad b : oh really ? grad e : because , uh , this room is again taken at two - thirty by morgan . grad b : oh , ok . ok . you did n't tell me that . ok , that 's fine . grad e : and the s meeting recorder meeting meeting meeting recording on meeting meetings grad b : ok , ok , ok . ok . yeah . grad a : ah , yeah . professor c : interesting . so you 're proposing that we meet tuesday . grad e : how about that ? grad a : next week . grad b : well , we 're meeting tuesday . professor c : i i could grad b : i mean we usually meet tuesday or l like , linguists um , at two . grad d : would it grad a : that 's right . grad b : so . do you want to meet again here bef grad d : and the s is the speech - gen meeting still at on tuesdays ? grad e : i mean w well , actually we w we we did scrap our monday time just because bhaskara could n't come monday . grad b : hhh . { comment } maybe i do need a palm pilot . grad e : so there 's nothing 's impeding monday anymore either . grad a : that does n't apply to a grad d : although i thought you wanted to go camping on monday er , take off mondays a lot so you could go camping . grad e : get a fresh start yeah , that 's another s thing . yeah . but , um . i mean , there are also usually then holidays anyways . i mean like { comment } sometimes it works out that way . grad b : usually ? grad e : so . hmm ! grad b : well , i mean , the linguists ' meeting i happens to be at two , but i think that 's i mean . grad a : that should be relatively flexible be grad b : pretty flexible , i think . grad a : yeah . there 's just sort of the two to four of us . grad b : so . the multiple meetings grad a : right ? yeah . so . grad b : yeah . grad a : and , you know , of course nancy and i are just sort of always talking anyway and sometimes we do it in that room . grad b : right . yeah . grad a : so , you know , i mean . grad e : ok , so l forget about the b the camping thing . so let 's eh , any other problems w w w ? but , i suggested monday . if that 's a problem for me then i should n't suggest it . grad d : ha - ha - ha . grad a : um , all of the proposed times sound fine with me . grad b : same here . grad e : monday ? professor c : ok , whate i mean what i think robert 's saying is that grad a : earlier in the week professor c : earlier we at least for next week , there 's a lot of stuff we want to get done , grad a : mm - hmm . yeah . professor c : so why do n't we plan to meet monday and we 'll see if we want to meet any more than that . grad b : what time ? at o o o o one , two , three ? grad e : one , two , three ? three 's too late . professor c : oh , i i yeah , i actually two is the earliest i can meet on monday . grad e : two - thirty ? ok , two . professor c : here i 'm blissfully agreeing to things and realizing that i actually do have some stuff scheduled on monday . grad a : sure . sounds great . uh , so that 's the eighteenth . grad b : you guys will still remind me , right ? grad d : no way ! grad b : y you 'll come and take all the the headph the good headphones first and then remind me . grad e : w why do you ? grad a : yeah , exactly . sorry , two pm . grad b : why do i have this unless i 'm gon na write ? grad e : do i get to see th uh , your formalism before that ? grad b : fine . yes . uh . would you like to ? grad e : mm - hmm . grad b : ok . i was actually gon na work on it for tomorrow like this this weekend . grad e : i wo i would like i would sort of get a get a notion of what what you guys have in store for me . grad b : yeah . professor c : well m @ @ you know , w maybe mond - maybe we can put this is part of what we can do monday , if we want . grad b : yeah . i ok . grad a : alright . grad b : i mean , i i i professor c : is some some version grad b : yeah , so there was like , you know , m m in my head the goal to have like an intermediate version , like , everything i know . grad a : mm - hmm . grad b : and then , w i would talk to you and figure out everything you know , that you know , see if they 're consistent . grad a : yeah . ok . why do n't w maybe you and i should meet sort of more or less first thing monday morning and then we can work on this . grad b : yes . yeah . that 's f fine with me . so . i might i might um , grad e : you - y grad b : s you said you 're busy over th until the weekend , right ? grad a : yeah , sort of through the weekend because kate has a photography show . grad b : that 's fine . so we might continue our email thing grad a : yeah . grad b : and that might be fine , too . so , maybe i 'll send you some grad a : um , if you have time after this i 'll show you the noun phrase thing . grad b : ok . that would be cool . so . ok , and we 'll you wan na m grad e : so the idea is on monday at two we 'll we 'll see an intermediate version of the formalism for the constructions , grad a : yeah . grad b : so that 's ok for you grad e : and do an on - line merging with my construal ideas . grad b : sure , sure . grad a : alright . grad b : that 's ok . grad e : so it wo n't be , like , a for semi - formal presentation of my proposal . it 'll be more like towards finalizing that proposal . grad b : cuz then you 'll find out more of what we 're making you do . grad e : ok , that 's fine . yep , and then grad a : yeah . grad d : hmm , hmm . grad e : yikes . grad a : oy , { comment } deadlines . grad b : we 'll make a presentation of your propo { comment } of your proposal . grad e : perfect . can you also write it up ? grad b : it 's like , `` this is what we 're doing . and the complement is robert . `` grad e : i 'll i 'll send you i 'll i 'll send you a style file , right ? you just grad b : i already sent you my fi { comment } my bib file . so . grad e : ok . and , um . sounds good . grad a : someday we also have to we should probably talk about the other side of the `` where is x `` construction , which is the issue of , um , how do you simulate questions ? what does the simspec look like for a question ? grad e : yeah . grad a : because it 's a little different . professor c : mm - hmm . grad b : yeah . professor c : yeah , now , we we w grad a : we had to we had an idea for this which seemed like it would probably work . professor c : great . ok . yeah . simspec may need we may n need to re - name that . grad a : yeah . grad b : i yeah . i professor c : ok ? so let 's think of a name for for whatever the this intermediate structure is . oh , we talked about semspec , for `` semantic spec specification `` and that seems um . grad a : it 's more general professor c : you know , so it 's a m minimal change . grad b : only have to change one vowel . that 's great . professor c : yeah . just grad b : all the old like graphs , professor c : right . grad b : just change the just , like , mark out the grad a : cool . professor c : right , a little substi substi you know , that 's what text substitution uh macros are for . grad a : yeah . it 's good for you . grad b : yeah . professor c : anyway , uh , so let 's let 's for the moment call it that until we think of something better . and , yeah , we absolutely need to find part of what was missing were markings of all sorts that were n't in there , incl including the questions grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : we did n't we never did figure out how we were gon na do emphasis in in uh , the semspec . grad a : yeah . grad b : yeah , we 've talked a little bit about that , too , which uh , uh , it 's hard for me to figure out with sort of our general linguistic issues , how they map onto this particular one , grad a : yeah . grad b : but ok , yeah , understood . professor c : but that 's part of the formalism is got to be uh , how things like that get marked . grad a : mm - hmm . grad b : w do you have data , like the the you have preliminary data ? cuz i know , you know , we 've been using this one easy sentence and i 'm sure you guys have uh , maybe you are the one who 've been looking at the rest of it grad a : um , i grad b : it 'd it 'd be useful for me , if we want to have it a little bit more data oriented . grad a : to tell you the truth , what i 've been looking at has not been the data so far , grad b : yeah . mm - hmm mm - hmm . grad a : i just sort of said `` alright let 's see if i can get noun phrases and , uh , major verb co uh , constructions out of the way first . `` and i have not gotten them out of the way yet . grad b : mm - hmm . grad a : surprise . so , um . grad b : yeah . grad a : so , i have not really approached a lot of the data , but i mean obviously like these the the question one , since we have this idea about the indefinite pronoun thing and all that , you know , i ca can try and , um run with that , you know , try and do some of the sentence constructions now . it would make sense . grad e : ok . do you wan na run the indefinite pronoun idea past jerry ? grad a : oh yeah , the basic idea is that um , uh you know uh , let 's see if i can formulate this . grad e : so mary fixed the car with a wrench . grad a : yeah . grad e : so you perform the mental sum and then , you know , `` who fixed the car with a wrench ? `` you basically are told , to to do this in the in analogously to the way you would do `` someone fixed the car with a wrench `` . and then you hand it back to your hippocampus and find out what that , you know , grad a : means . grad e : means , and then come up with that so who that someone was . grad a : the wh question has this as sort of extra thing which says `` and when you 're done , tell me who fills that slot `` or w you know . professor c : mm - hmm . grad a : so , um . and , you know , this is sort of a nice way to do it , the idea of sort of saying that you treat from the simulation point of view or whatever you treat , uh , wh constructions similarly to uh , indefinite pronouns like `` someone fixed the car `` because lots of languages , um , have wh questions with an indefinite pronoun in situ or whatever , grad b : use actually the same one . grad a : and you just get intonation to tell you that it 's a question . so it makes sense professor c : alright , which is skolemization . in in logic , it 's it 's @ @ { comment } it 's actual huh ? grad b : right . let 's put a skolem skolem constant in , grad a : yeah . shko professor c : what ? grad a : sure . grad b : yeah . yeah . right . professor c : that - that 's not that 's not saying it 's bad , grad a : right . right . no . of course . professor c : it 's just that that that the logicians have have , uh grad a : that 's right . it makes sense from that point of view , too , which is actually better . grad e : come up with this grad a : so yeah , um . anyway , but just that kind of thing and we 'll figure out exactly how to write that up and so on , but professor c : good . grad a : uh , no , all the focus stuff . we sort of just dropped that cuz it was too weird and we did n't even know , like , what we were talking about { comment } exactly , what the object of study was . grad b : um - mmm . professor c : yeah . well , if if i mean , i part of of what the exercise is , t by the end of next week , is to say what are the things that we just do n't have answers for yet . grad a : yeah . yep . professor c : that 's fine . i mean grad b : mm - hmm . grad e : well , if you if you do wan na discuss focus background and then get me into that because i mean , i wo i w scientifically worked on that for for almost two years . grad a : yeah . ok , then certainly we will . good . grad b : yeah , you should definitely , um be on on that maybe maybe by after monday we 'll y you can see what things we are and are n't grad a : yeah . w we should figure out what our questions are , for example , to ask you . grad b : yeah . yeah . professor c : wel - then t hans . has i have n't seen hans boas ? grad b : he 's been around . grad a : yeah . grad b : just maybe not today . professor c : ok . so has he been been involved with this , or ? grad b : eh . with us ? grad a : yeah . grad b : yeah . professor c : yeah . grad b : i would say that tha that those discussions have been primarily , um , keith and keith and me , but um like in th the meeting i mean , he sort of i thin like the last meeting we had , i think we were all very much part of it grad a : yeah . grad b : but um grad a : sometimes hans has been sort of coming in there as sort of like a devil 's advocate type role or something , grad b : but different perspec yeah . grad a : like `` this make you know , i 'm going to pretend i 'm a linguist who has nothing to do with this . this makes no sense . `` and he 'll just go off on parts of it which definitely need fixing grad b : right . grad a : but are n't where we 're at right now , so it 's grad b : like like what you call certain things , grad a : yeah . grad b : which we decided long ago we do n't care that much right now . professor c : right . grad b : but in a sense , it 's good to know that he of all people you know , like maybe a lot of people would have m much stronger reactions , so , you know , he 's like a relatively friendly linguist grad a : yeah . yeah . grad b : and yet a word like `` constraint `` causes a lot of problems . and , so . right . so . professor c : ok . this is consistent with um the role i had suggested that he he play , grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : ok , which was that o one of the things i would like to see happen is a paper that was tentatively called `` towards a formal cognitive semantics `` which was addressed to these linguists uh who have n't been following this stuff at all . grad a : yeah . professor c : so it could be that he 's actually , at some level , thinking about how am i going to communicate this story grad a : yeah . yeah . professor c : so , internally , we should just do whatever works , grad a : yeah . professor c : cuz it 's hard enough . grad a : yeah . professor c : but if he g if he turns is is really gon na turn around and help t to write this version that does connect with as many as possible of the other linguists in the world um { comment } then then it becomes important to use terminology that does n't make it hard grad a : mm - hmm . grad b : mm - hmm . grad a : yeah . yeah . grad b : mm - hmm . sure . professor c : i mean , it 's gon na be plenty hard for for people to understand it as it is , grad a : yeah . professor c : but y y you do n't want to make it worse . grad a : yeah . no , right . i mean , tha that role is is , uh , indispensable but that 's not where sort of our heads were at in these meetings . professor c : right . grad a : it was a little strange . professor c : yeah , yeah . no , that 's fine . i just wanted t to i have to catch up with him , and i wanted t to get a feeling for that . ok . grad a : yeah . grad b : mm - hmm . grad a : so i do n't know what his take will be on these meetings exactly , you know . professor c : ok . good . grad a : cuz sometimes he sort of sounds like we 're talking a bunch of goobledy - gook from his point of view . grad b : i think it 's good when we 're when we 're into data and looking at the some specific linguistic phenomenon in in english or in german , in particular , whatever , that 's great , professor c : yeah . grad a : mm - hmm . grad b : and ben and and hans are , if if anything , more you know , they have more to say than , let 's say , i would about some of these things . professor c : right . grad b : but when it 's like , well , w how do we capture these things , you know , i think it 's definitely been keith and i who have d you know , who have worried more about the grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : well , that 's good . that 's i i i think that should be the the core group grad b : s which is fine . grad a : yeah . grad b : mm - hmm . professor c : and um that 's , you know , i think very close to the maximum number of people working together that can get something done . grad a : yeah . grad b : yes . yeah . we actually have i think we have been making progress , grad a : yeah . grad b : and its sort of surprising . professor c : i i i i definitely get that impression . yeah . grad b : you know , like professor c : that 's great . grad b : yeah . so anyone else would like uh { comment } ruin the balance of anyway . professor c : well , but well . but th th then w then we have to come back to the bigger group . grad a : yeah . grad b : right . professor c : yeah . { comment } great . and then we 're gon we 're gon na because of this other big thing we have n't talked about is actually implementing this stuff ? so that i guess the three of us are gon na connect tomorrow about that . grad b : yeah , we could talk tomorrow . i was just gon na say , though , that , for instance , there was you know , out of a meeting with johno came the suggestion that `` oh , could it be that the meaning constraints really are n't used for selection ? `` which has sort of been implicit in the parsing strategy we talked about . professor c : right . grad b : in which case we w we can just say that they 're the effects or the bindings . which uh , so far , in terms of like putting up all the constraints as , you know , pushing them into type constraints , the when i 've , you know , propo then proposed it to linguists who have n't yet given me you know , we have n't yet thought of a reason that that would n't work . right ? as long as we allow our type constraints to be reasonably complex . professor c : well , it grad b : so anyway , to be to talk about later . professor c : yeah , it has to in the sense that you 're gon na use them eventu it 's you know , it 's sort of a , um , generate and test kind of thing , grad b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor c : and if you over - generate then you 'll have to do more . i mean , if there are some constraints that you hold back and do n't use uh , in your initial matching then you 'll match some things grad b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor c : i mean , i i d i do n't think there 's any way that it could completely fail . it it could be that uh , you wind up i mean the original bad idea of purely context - free grammars died because there were just vastly too many parses . you know , exponentially num num many parses . and so th the concern might be that not that it would totally fail , but that grad b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . that it would still generate too many . { comment } right ? so by just having semantic even bringing semantics in for matching just in the form of j semantic types , right ? professor c : it would still genera grad b : like `` conceptually these have to be construed as this , this , and this `` might still give us quite a few possibilities professor c : yeah . grad b : that , you know and and it certainly helps a lot . professor c : we do n't know , but , yeah . grad b : i mean , le let 's put it that way . so . professor c : no question . yeah . and i think it 's a it 's a perfectly fine place to start . you know , and say , let let 's see how far we can go this way . grad b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor c : and , uh grad d : well it definitely makes the problem easier . professor c : i 'm i 'm in favor of that . uh , cuz i think i i think it 's as you know , i think it 's real hard and if w if we right . grad b : so friday , monday grad a : yeah . grad b : monday . grad a : yeah . grad b : so . ok , that 's tuesday . grad a : yeah . grad b : like { comment } th that 's the conclusion . ok . professor c : yeah . grad e : so , you your dance card is completely filled now ? grad a : shoot . grad d : mm - hmm . grad b : yeah , and i have nothing to do this weekend but work . grad e : why do n't grad b : no , that 's not really true , grad a : bummer . grad b : but like grad d : what about what about ddr ? grad b : it 's almost true . oh , i do n't have it this weekend , so , tsk { comment } do n't have to worry about that . professor c : ddr , he asked ? </s>
<s> language generation </s> grad d : she knows how to program in scheme ? i hope ? grad e : no , i my guess is i i asked for a commented version of that file ? if we get that , then it 's doable , even without getting into it , even though the scheme li uh , stuff is really well documented in the festival . grad d : well , i guess if you 're not used to functional programming , scheme can be completely incomprehensible . cuz , there 's no like there 's lots of unnamed functions professor c : syntax . yeah . grad d : and grad b : mm - hmm . grad d : you know ? professor c : anyway , it we 'll sort this out . um . but anyway , send me the note and then i 'll - i 'll check with , uh , morgan on the money . i i do n't anticipate any problem but we have to ask . oh , so this was you know , on the generation thing , um if { comment } sh y she 's really going to do that , then we should be able to get prosody as well . so it 'll say it 's nonsense with perfect intonation . grad d : are we gon na can we change the voice of the of the thing , because right now the voice sounds like a murderer . grad e : yep . we ha we have to change the voice . grad b : wh - which one ? grad d : the the little smarticus smarticus sounds like a murderer . grad a : that 's good to know . grad d : `` i have your reservations . `` grad a : but i will not give them to you unless you come into my lair . grad e : it is uh , we have the choice between the , uh , usual festival voices , which i already told the smartkom people we are n't gon na use because they 're really bad . grad b : festival ? professor c : it 's the name of some program , grad b : oh , oh . got it . ok . professor c : the the synthesizer . grad a : you know , the usual party voices . grad e : but , um grad b : yeah , i know . that does n't sound , exactly right either . grad e : ogi has , uh , crafted a couple of diphone type voices that are really nice and we 're going to use that . we can still , um , d agree on a gender , if we want . so we still have male or female . grad b : i think well , let 's just pick whatever sounds best . whatever sounds best . unfortunately , probably male voices , a bit more research on . grad d : does ogi stand for ? { comment } original german institute ? grad e : oregon . grad b : oregon graduate insti professor c : oregon @ @ { comment } graduate institute grad e : try oregon . professor c : it turns out there 's the long - standing links with these guys in the speech group . very long . </s>
<s> what were the difficulties that were encountered by the language generation ? </s> grad e : now and this concept - to - speech module has certain rules on how if you get the following syntactic structure , how to map this onto prosodic rules . grad b : mm - hmm . sure . mm - hmm . grad e : and fey has foolheartedly agreed to rewrite uh , the german concept uh syntax - to - prosody rules grad b : i did n't know she spoke german . grad e : no , she does n't . grad b : oh , ok . grad e : but she speaks english . grad b : oh . rewrite the german ones into english . ok , got it . grad e : into english . and um therefore the , uh if it 's ok that we give her a couple of more hours per week , then she 'll do that . grad b : ok , got it . grad d : what language is that written i is that that scheme thing that you showed me ? grad e : yeah . that 's the lisp - type scheme . grad d : she knows how to program in scheme ? i hope ? grad e : no , i my guess is i i asked for a commented version of that file ? if we get that , then it 's doable , even without getting into it , even though the scheme li uh , stuff is really well documented in the festival . grad d : well , i guess if you 're not used to functional programming , scheme can be completely incomprehensible . cuz , there 's no like there 's lots of unnamed functions professor c : syntax . yeah . grad d : and grad b : mm - hmm . grad d : you know ? professor c : anyway , it we 'll sort this out . um . but anyway , send me the note and then i 'll - i 'll check with , uh , morgan on the money . i i do n't anticipate any problem but we have to ask . oh , so this was you know , on the generation thing , um if { comment } sh y she 's really going to do that , then we should be able to get prosody as well . so it 'll say it 's nonsense with perfect intonation . grad d : are we gon na can we change the voice of the of the thing , because right now the voice sounds like a murderer . grad e : yep . we ha we have to change the voice . grad b : wh - which one ? </s>
<s> what were the problems associated with mental spaces ? </s> professor c : uh , w which is { comment } mental spaces and uh and - or grad b : it 's hard . yeah , it 's hard . grad a : yeah . grad b : yeah . professor c : it 's a hard puzzle . but the other part of it is the way they connect to these , uh , probabilistic relational models . so there 's all the problems that the linguists know about , about mental spaces , and the cognitive linguists know about , but then there 's this problem of the belief - net people have only done a moderately good job of dealing with temporal belief - nets . uh , which they call dynamic they incorrectly call dynamic belief - nets . so there 's a term `` dynamic belief - net `` , does n't mean that . it means time slices . and srini used those and people use them . uh . but one of the things i w would like to do over the next , uh , month , it may take more , { comment } is to st understand to what extent we can not only figure out the constructions for them for multiple worlds and uh sort of what the formalism will look like and where the slots and fillers will be , but also what that would translate into in terms of belief - net and the inferences . so the story is that if you have these probabilistic relational models , they 're set up , in principle , so that you can make new instances and instances connect to each other , and all that sort of stuff , so it should be feasible to set them up in such a way that if you 've got the past tense and the present tense and each of those is a separate uh , belief structure that they do their inferences with just the couplings that are appropriate . but that 's g that 's , as far as i can tell , it 's it 's putting together two real hard problems . one is the linguistic part of what are the couplings and and when you have a certain , uh , construction , that implies certain couplings and other couplings , you know , between let 's say between the past and the present , or any other one of these things and then we have this inference problem of exactly technically how does the belief - net work if it 's got um , let 's say one in in , you know , different tenses or my beliefs and your beliefs , or any of these other ones of of multiple models . so um you know , in the long run we need to solve both of those and my suggestion is that we start digging into them both , uh , in a way we that , you know , th hopefully turns out to be consistent , so that the um . and sometimes it 's actually easier to solve two hard problems than one grad a : yeah . professor c : because they constrain each other . i mean if you 've got huge ra huge range of possible choices um we 'll see . but anyway , so that 's , um grad a : oh yeah , like uh , i solved the the problem of um we were talking about how do you various issues of how come a plural noun gets to quote `` count as a noun phrase `` , you know , occur as an argument of a higher construction , but a bare singular stem does n't get to act that way . professor c : right . grad a : um , and it would take a really long time to explain it now , but i 'm about to write it up this evening . i solved that at the same time as `` how do we keep adjectives from floating to the left of determiners and how do we keep all of that from floating outside the noun phrase `` to get something like `` i the kicked dog `` . um . did it did it at once . professor c : that 's great . grad a : so maybe maybe it 'll be a similar thing . grad b : cool . professor c : yeah . no , i know , i th i i think that is gon na be sort of the key to this wh to th the big project of the summer of of getting the constructions right is that people do manage to do this so there probably are some , uh , relatively clean rules , they 're just not context - free trees . grad a : right . professor c : and if we if the formalism is is good , then we should be able to have , you know , sort of moderate scale thing . and that by the way is is , keith , what i encouraged george to be talking with you about . not the formalism yet grad a : mm - hmm . professor c : but the phenomena . grad a : yeah . professor c : the p and oh , another thing , um there was this , uh thing that nancy agreed to in a in a weak moment this morning that grad b : i was really strong . professor c : uh , sorry . in a in a friendly moment . grad a : same thing . professor c : anyway , uh , that we were that we 're gon na try to get a uh , first cut at the revised formalism by the end of next week . grad a : alright . professor c : ok ? probably skipping the mental spaces part . grad b : seems </s>
<s> what was said of the `` where is x '' construction ? </s> grad a : hmm ! this is something you ha you get used to as a programmer , right ? you know , { comment } and it 's cool , it works out that way . grad e : hmm . so , the the people at saarbruecken and i decided not to touch it ever again . yeah , that would work . ok . um i was gon na ask you where something is and what we know about that . grad a : where ok . grad b : where the `` where is `` construction is . grad a : what what thing is this ? grad e : where is x ? oh , but by uh , we can ask , uh , did you get to read all four hundred words ? professor c : i did . grad e : was it ok ? was it ? professor c : yeah . grad d : i i wa i was looking at it . it does n't follow logically . it does n't the first paragraph does n't seem to have any link to the second paragraph . grad a : and so on . professor c : yeah . grad d : yeah . grad e : hmm . that professor c : you know , i yeah , it grad d : each paragraph is good , though . i li professor c : i i yeah . well , it it 's fine . grad a : it was written by committee . professor c : anyway . um . but c the meeting looks like it 's , it 's gon na be good . so . i think it 's uh grad e : yeah . grad b : yeah , i did n't know about it until robert told me , like , professor c : yeah , i i ra i ran across it in i do n't even know where , you know some just some weird place . and , uh , yeah , i i 'm surprised i did n't know about it grad b : y yeah . well , yeah . i was like , why did n't dan tell me ? professor c : since we know all the invited speakers , an grad a : right . professor c : right , or some anyway . so but anyway , yeah . i so i i did see that . oh wha yeah . before we get started on this st so i also had a nice email correspondence with daphne kohler , who said yes indeed she would love to work with us on the , um , you know , using these structured belief - nets and stuff but starting in august , that she 's also got a new student working on this and that we should get in touch with them again in august and then we 'll figure out a way for you uh you to get seriously connected with , um their group . so that 's , uh looks pretty good . and um yeah , i 'll say it now . so , um and it looks to me like { comment } we 're now at a good point to do something start working on something really hard . we 've been so far working on things that are easy . uh , w which is { comment } mental spaces and uh and - or grad b : it 's hard . yeah , it 's hard . grad a : yeah . grad b : yeah . professor c : it 's a hard puzzle . but the other part of it is the way they connect to these , uh , probabilistic relational models . so there 's all the problems that the linguists know about , about mental spaces , and the cognitive linguists know about , but then there 's this problem of the belief - net people have only done a moderately good job of dealing with temporal belief - nets . uh , which they call dynamic they incorrectly call dynamic belief - nets . so there 's a term `` dynamic belief - net `` , does n't mean that . it means time slices . and srini used those and people use them . uh . but one of the things i w would like to do over the next , uh , month , it may take more , { comment } is to st understand to what extent we can not only figure out the constructions for them for multiple worlds and uh sort of what the formalism will look like and where the slots and fillers will be , but also what that would translate into in terms of belief - net and the inferences . so the story is that if you have these probabilistic relational models , they 're set up , in principle , so that you can make new instances and instances connect to each other , and all that sort of stuff , so it should be feasible to set them up in such a way that if you 've got the past tense and the present tense and each of those is a separate uh , belief structure that they do their inferences with just the couplings that are appropriate . but that 's g that 's , as far as i can tell , it 's it 's putting together two real hard problems . one is the linguistic part of what are the couplings and and when you have a certain , uh , construction , that implies certain couplings and other couplings , you know , between let 's say between the past and the present , or any other one of these things and then we have this inference problem of exactly technically how does the belief - net work if it 's got um , let 's say one in in , you know , different tenses or my beliefs and your beliefs , or any of these other ones of of multiple models . so um you know , in the long run we need to solve both of those and my suggestion is that we start digging into them both , uh , in a way we that , you know , th hopefully turns out to be consistent , so that the um . and sometimes it 's actually easier to solve two hard problems than one grad a : yeah . professor c : because they constrain each other . i mean if you 've got huge ra huge range of possible choices um we 'll see . but anyway , so that 's , um grad a : oh yeah , like uh , i solved the the problem of um we were talking about how do you various issues of how come a plural noun gets to quote `` count as a noun phrase `` , you know , occur as an argument of a higher construction , but a bare singular stem does n't get to act that way . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : right first time this time . nu there we go . it 's not that complicated , but i get it wrong every time . industrial designer : okay so we are just waiting for matthew . marketing : for matthew , yep . project manager : mm . uh so i suggest we start the meeting uh without matthew uh marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : he 's uh obviously late for some reason . good . um . today uh we will uh talk about uh conceptual design . i hope uh you both did some uh some work uh concerning a uh conceptual design . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um this will be the uh agenda for the meeting uh . uh i will take some minutes uh again . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um we will have the presentations of y of you different team members , and then try to come to decisions uh about the concepts uh you have presented . so and that uh will uh industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : we have some uh forty minutes uh to complete this uh . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so um who has the fir do you ha anna do you have your presentation ready ? marketing : i have a presentation , i 'm just making this industrial designer : yeah i think yeah the matthew it is it 's important that matthew yeah is here project manager : okay . ah industrial designer : because it 's really a a team uh project with a team project manager : there is matthew . industrial designer : and if someone is not here then we can not user interface : sorry . industrial designer : but it 's okay it 's good . marketing : okay i 'll just email you this file , my presentation . project manager : so . good . do presentation ready ? marketing : mm-hmm i 'm just emailing it to you . project manager : oh okay . industrial designer : user interface : so project manager : so did you manage uh user interface : yeah i sent you the slides , you did n't see them ? project manager : oh yes i see him , good yes . user interface : okay . . so 'kay . marketing : okay it should 've gone through to you . user interface : project manager : okay mm yes i have it . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . okay so this is just a presentation on uh the trends that we 're gon na use to make the product stand out from the rest of the products out there at the moment . um can i just put this on ? so we have to work out a way what we can do with our product to make it stand out and make it so people wan na buy it . um . this is to do this i will not remove my microphone . we basically used um some focus group surveys which i went through with you last time , the main results of that , and um some research on the current design um and fashion trends that are out there at the moment um , industrial designer : marketing : and as part of this the important aspects that came out were things that we 've already discussed really . the most important by far was the look and feel of it . it needs to be something that 's very different from everything else out there . it needs to stand out . it needs to be not functional like the rest of the things out there at the moment . most people find remote controls boring at the moment , we need to have something that looks interesting , that looks exciting , that will stand out . people will wan na buy it . um that was twice as i important as the next item on here which is that it has to be technologically innovative has to have something else , apart from just the look of it . people have to then think about it and say got something there that i want . that 's a really cool feature , and it has to make them wan na buy it again . third on the list , and again innovative was twice as important as this last um aspect , it has to be easy to use . so they have to be able to be able to look at it and have some intuitive idea of how to use it um . drawing on the fashion trends at the moment , uh fruit and vegetables um . this is basically talking about just the the feel of it , so probably not the smell of it , but the bright colours , um eye-catching , really bold designs , and a spongy feel . user interface : industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um i had a talk to the design people about this , but having a remote that 's tactile , that feels different , that would be really cool . that would make it stand out . um . industrial designer : so can you repeat and be more precise about what you just said ? project manager : spongy feel ? industrial designer : uh about the feeling yeah uh yo user interface : you can marketing : ma make it not necessar sp spongy is the current thing . spongy is the current texture , but basically there are no reports no remotes at the moment which are spongy or tactile at all , so if we make it like maybe furry or soft or something , that 'll be something that sets it apart , industrial designer : okay . marketing : rather than just bare plastic which they all are at the moment . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : so as far as the design goes , the very most important aspect was the design , to the customers . so going with the fruit and vegetable idea , we 've got the bright colours , so makes it stand out , the oranges and the the bright yellows and the florescent colours , part of the fruit and vegetables um . going back to the idea of taking inspiration from mobile phones , they 've all got those a lot of them have the changeable covers , so they can choose what colour the outside is . that 's one way of looking at it um . textured feel we just talked about . maybe it 's another way of doing that . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so if it 's part of the the changeable covers then may maybe they can choose a different texture , a spongy one or a soft one or something like that . so they can choose it li as they want to to maybe to fit in with their decor in their living room , or just what they like , their sports team or whatever . industrial designer : yeah that 's a very good idea , yeah . yeah . marketing : um and yeah , still taking the inspiration from the mobile phone design so functionality , the way the mobile phones work , the way the keypad looks . also just the way that a lot of industrial design is going into mobile phones at the moment . they 're big selling items . people put a lot of thought into that so we can leverage off that , and we can start using some of their ideas . um back to technological in in innovation , not quite as important , but still a big issue . um we talked about having a way of finding a remote control if it 's been lost , uh that 's one thing we could look at . there are other aspects like lcd screens and speech recognition which were n't i do n't think , in my personal opinion , gon na be worth the extra expense and the extra effort that will go into them . i think we 're better doing something basic like this industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : which is very important and very will be a really cool feature to put in . and use . i had no real specific ideas for this , maybe we just , the basic idea of having your core functions big and at the top maybe , by themselves , project manager : mm . yes well marketing : and then project manager : maybe matthew can can give some more information on the user interface : yeah . marketing : and then th th the finer details of buttons you do n't use as much either hidden away or completely separate . yep and that 's the presentation . user interface : voila . project manager : okay good , that 's very clear . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah very clear . project manager : 'kay . um . uh marketing : so does anyone have any comments or ideas on that ? i think you project manager : maybe we yes well we maybe can decide later on um the l the the look and feel of uh i 've it was a good idea maybe to to industrial designer : to let the people choose , you mean ? project manager : yes the the the there are changeable covers , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but on the other hand i i do n't know whether my superiors would be so glad with it because you have to introduce a complete uh uh new l line of uh of supplies uh it would be uh very complicated uh organisational industrial designer : marketing : well we 're selling so many units of this . this is gon na be a mass marketed product , we can afford to have two or three different designs at least . project manager : hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah a range of uh yeah , a set of three , four different aspects . marketing : mm mm . project manager : yes . mm-hmm . industrial designer : sure that fits the project manager : yes and of course it will be a we we get a if it works we can get uh after-sales i mean that would would be very good i mean those covers could go for for three , five euro . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's a very good idea um and then uh maybe uh we can go a th matthew 's presentation because marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : the user interface : then we could discuss later like we can put all ideas together . project manager : together indeed uh , user interface : it should be easier with that . project manager : because you ma might have some some information on the the easy to use , industrial designer : yeah yeah i agree . marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . project manager : what you were already mentioning . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so industrial designer : and your part is very related to mine user interface : yeah . industrial designer : because when you suggest something then it has to be integrated inside . user interface : yeah so i 'll i 'll go with that actually marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so um okay so m so then the the idea of uh having a remote is generally you have uh different keys and uh different structures , different forms , and uh they could be like buttons and um they could be of uh a varying sizes if you want to to uh basically emphasize a particular key more than the other , and uh maybe like you can have different colours for example having the r red for the on off switching on and off the button . so this this is the general trend to ha the method they do . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so what i have found was that uh currently uh the they are mostly that the tv , v_c_r_ , music system operated ones actually , and they are very specific to each other , but there are some common keys for example if you want to follow the v_c_r_ and if you want to follow the uh g uh s some uh soundtrack on the w w see they have the common thing actually you can have and uh there is also um a speech recognition to store channel information , names , like you can basically if you have a multiple functionality , say tv , v_c_r_ or something i say it to the tv and the tv , and you can programme the keys if you want to , certain keys are even the channel information . marketing : mm . mm . i like the idea though of having speech recognition for like the n the name of a channel like b_b_c_ , rather than having to remember the the number of it on the keypad . that 's a good idea . user interface : yeah yeah so you you you can just uh because uh as more and more channels come then you have more and more problems to remember the v v exact channel numbers ex exactly , industrial designer : . yeah . user interface : even if you arrange it by however you arrange it , you still have the problem to remember exactly which channel you want to marketing : hmm . mm . yeah i really like that idea . industrial designer : so what functionalities do you suggest for that ? for facing this problem ? user interface : so it it it 's like it limited one . in the present market i saw it that says something like they are looking for eighty word thing , eighty word , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : which should n't be th that difficult to implement , like eighty to hundred word . basically you want you do n't want to store all the channels in the remote control , you want to st store your favourite channel . marketing : maybe ten channels , yeah at the most . user interface : yeah some ten twelve channel information . you know you do n't want to st store all the hundred channel information into that . industrial designer : okay . user interface : and uh basically uh it depends like the remote with lcd display for browsing because you have multiple functionalities for example you are watching a movie , and uh uh you are having a universal remote control and you want to uh you do n't know really which functionality is now , so i am using the tv so every time i use it , it could be like , for example i can use a simple toggle switch , and a display , so i press it so the display says , okay , i 'm in tv or d_v_d_ or whatever it is , instead of having three keys separately for four keys , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . oh yeah yeah yeah mm . user interface : to model the functionalities will increase actually , and for you and you might want you do n't want separate keys for all of them . you ca n't . and uh well there can be children friendly where you can programme your remote so that they they are not allowed uh to browse certain channels which you can block them , and you can operate them . so these are the things presently which are seen in the market scenarios at present . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i personally would look at things like having a u universal remote , is uh um is a good idea , like instead of having unusual ones for all of them you can think of having , um with multiple functionality possibly with speech recognition . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i got a mail from the the coffee machine interface unit that uh they have uh integrated the s speech recognition into a into the coffee machine , industrial designer : user interface : and so if you say hello coffee machine , it say hi joe , or something like that , you know , and uh marketing : but a coffee machine , there 's not too many words they 'd be using with that it 's a it 's a small vocabulary . user interface : yeah you you wo n't be using it , so it 's a limited vocabulary mm thing , and very isolated word marketing : mm . mm . user interface : and it 's uh it is interesting , and basically storing the channel through voice or other ways of programming your keys , on the display for the browsing which is again and maybe having something like a blinking thing , like uh it could indicate you 're uh it it could indicate what is cal like the uh whether uh you you have enough battery in your in your uh remote , the blinking . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : at the same time , if it 's a dark room , it can be used to locate the remote also marketing : user interface : or industrial designer : and you want okay for coming back to one point marketing : two thirty five supposed to finish . industrial designer : y you want to let the user to programming the keys ? some of them ? user interface : yeah you can let them to do that . industrial designer : and uh is n't that too difficult for the we want w i do n't know if we still want the um r_c_ to be easy to use , that 's the compromise . user interface : n no but the if you give it d depends on the easiness like the user how much effort he can put . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : like for example uh i would like to store in certain way , so if you want to give the full freedom to the user or you want to keep some constraints and let the user use it with that constraint . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . mm . i think you can do it both ways . user interface : so it de industrial designer : yeah . marketing : you can have it so it 's easy they can pick it up and use it straight away without doing anythi without customizing it , industrial designer : a standard . marketing : or if they want to they have the option of using these extra features . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um yes but but i do user interface : so industrial designer : yeah . project manager : maybe you can give a hand to us because i i 'm not sure whether that that we can implement that for twelve euro and fifty cents . user interface : so project manager : i 'm sorry to have every time i have to come down on this price again to so this might be a little limiting for your creativity , but it 's it 's it 's the real we have to consider it . s so industrial designer : yeah . project manager : do we think these ideas an and my uh sp speech recognition , i mean maybe it 's possible for for twelve euro but then then it will be at cost of other functionality we might implement like the uh uh the the the furry uh uh case of the marketing : mm . hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm yeah like i would say that for programming uh keys , you said , uh it could be uh easily uh done within the the package of twel twelve euros , user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : but for the a_s_r_ system , uh i 'm not sure if it 's feasible to have this user interface : we well we can still look at we can talk with the coffee unit industrial designer : we user interface : and you can uh check how much how much they industrial designer : exactly yeah i if if it 's a low vocabulary it 's already implemented , user interface : yeah yeah yeah . industrial designer : and w how much it 's cost , maybe with a f cheap chip . user interface : maybe we can come we we can talk to them , and we can come with that , project manager : mm mm . user interface : you know . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and also well you can think of having uh since you have a you know something maybe if you added little bit of display , you might need the to che keep checking the battery , so you really need a some kind of indicator , so it could be a blinking option of l_e_d_ it could actually be used to detect also . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : if it 's in a dark room you can basically detect it also . marketing : mm . hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i like the idea too of being able to use the remote in the dark , user interface : so marketing : so either having the buttons so you can feel the difference between them or if they if they light up or something . user interface : no actually i if i it is like you know it tells you um , it can be for two purposes , like if you have an lcd display and all those things it 's not going to be the standard remote , marketing : mm . hmm . user interface : which is having uh which need just uh six six volt uh th sorry three volts um of d_c_ . it may need more actually , so y you you may need to check your battery usage it and then you need that , some functionality to indicate the battery limit . and then if the battery limit is indicated , if it could be ind indicated through a blinking something industrial designer : it 's true . user interface : and it can change the colour depending on your uh how much is the battery , well that is good enough to even locate even if you want to . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : you know . project manager : 'kay good . industrial designer : . user interface : yeah so industrial designer : i do n't know how if if i have time to talk about the project manager : mm yes um i would user interface : you you have time some more ? yep . project manager : yes yes you can you can still . we have time . marketing : user interface : sure you can you know . industrial designer : okay . so what i 'm gon na present here is very uh um yeah basic knowledge about the all the the components that are inside a a r_c_ a remote control , and how is it manufactured h what is the process , just to explain you . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so the method is ther there is a a set of components in a in a remote control like , and uh what cost the the components in themself do not cost a lot but the the way to assemble everything costs obviously , and i will uh show you my preferences uh uh at the end . so there are two uh different types of uh um two different ways of using the the components for making a a remote control . project manager : nice . industrial designer : uh the basic way is to use a an integrated circuit and some uh transistors with an that aims at communicating uh uh the message and to to send the message to the um to the led that will uh transmit to the receiver . and uh yeah the other components and the circuit board buttons , infrared , led , etcetera , for the components um . so you finding , just to say that the chip can detect uh when a key is pressed , and then it translate to the key , to a sequence , something like morse code , as you know , uh with a different sequence for each key , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh uh that 's , with the components we will use , we will have different uh messages , different sequences , and the chips sends that signal signal to the transistor that amplify to make it stronger um . so electronic parts are assembled onto uh printed boards uh because it 's easier to mass produce and assemble . and uh so i think for our design we want some b uh programmable uh you know v_ v_l_s_i_ or f_p_g_a_ uh high technology , user interface : yeah mm mm-hmm . industrial designer : and this is important , and also we 'll use uh yeah like in any uh high-tech uh devices a chip of fi fibreglass to them and connect them . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so my personal design we need to find a solution what um what is the material of the cover we want to use . if it 's plastic or you said that yeah you had some ideas uh like fruit , veg or project manager : well well industrial designer : i dunno . marketing : project manager : m m maybe m maybe we can give the uh the uh the case a very uh uh normal a v very normal case but , with the changeable covers to fancy it up . industrial designer : yes . yes . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so like a normal cheap plastic case which can be covered up in , for instance , a wooden case . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm just have a yeah industrial designer : yeah like they do in with cars i think . yeah inside the car marketing : just the veneer on it , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so they also emailed me that uh they have available a bunch of different buttons , a scroll wheels , integrated push buttons s such as a computer mouse . and uh very cheap lcds , so liquid crystal displays , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so i 'm wondering , i think we might be able to integrate lcd into our r_c_ . and the final point okay is um we have yeah there are some uh compromise to to do . so we have to know that the push button requires a simple chip , but the scroll wheel uh and that kind of higher high-tech stuff needs more money um which is a higher price range alright . and the display requires an advanced chip , which in turns is more expensive than the regular chip , but i think uh with twelve euros um and if it 's uh uh made for mm four million uh items , then i think w we could be able to handle that . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so to to sum up um we need yeah so i i just said that the components uh the list of components uh has to be uh yeah listed and um and um assembly is a an important process that has to be taken into account . and uh for the designing of the cove uh uh cover layout then it 's better to to to maybe see that with uh the the u_r_ exp u_r_i_ expert user interface : sorry . industrial designer : so that we can it 's really a team-working uh . so i i can not design something without your agreement , project manager : no of course . user interface : yeah so industrial designer : right ? user interface : of course for example uh i wanted to know like if you want to have a a fo if you want to have the lcd display over there , or if you want to store a programmes with a keys what kind of things you 'll need inside your thin inside w wh what industrial designer : yeah it 's kind of um simple pro progra programmable device , and we have to insert . user interface : w what okay . okay . industrial designer : i think we could insert one that could underlie several functions user interface : okay so industrial designer : of user interface : in that case you can even look at the technology what the mobile phone is trying to use with the card . industrial designer : exactly yeah , for customizing and yeah . user interface : yeah where they do all the wi with with them actually . how f cost effective it would be to put that car chip into it and do the programmable things . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah . yeah good idea . project manager : so i f i think we we should come to some decisions now uh a about this . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um so i understand uh when we want a display we need a expensive chip , but when we want a scrolling wheel w we also need the expensive chip , so can we use same chip , so with one expensive chip we can uh implement several complicated uh or advanced features . industrial designer : exactly yeah that 's a very good idea , we could have uh one main chip uh that could handle , uh it 's called f_p_g_a_ chip , that could handle both uh like scrolling wheels as well as uh lcd project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : when the more expensive chip you mentioned there is is possible in the in the given budget , uh maybe we should go for for the more expensive chip , so all features uh which you mentioned can be implemented based on the same chip . user interface : d well project manager : do you think that 's feasible ? user interface : well i do n't know if it 'll fit into our cost of twelve point five euro you know . project manager : uh you th you think it 's possible . user interface : is it possible to fit in to that ? industrial designer : yeah also thinking , i think both uh if we had a budget of twenty twenty uh euros , it will be okay , user interface : sorry . industrial designer : but uh . marketing : well maybe we need specific costings then . actually do maybe two designs and then cost them out and see which one is gon na fit in our budget better . project manager : mm yes industrial designer : yeah that 's an excellent idea . project manager : wh when you make a a design ca you can next meeting you can give an quite an exact cost price . industrial designer : yeah yeah . yeah project manager : that w that would be a very good idea . industrial designer : because right now i do n't have price in in head but for next meeting i 'm sure yeah be able to do that . project manager : good good . user interface : yeah that 's uh that 's something which i wanted to ask you also , like what will be the each individually the cost of it . for example if f if you want to put wood i would n't suggest for wood industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh 'cause it 's i think it 's m much easier to use a plastic or a rubber rather than wood . industrial designer : okay . i agree on that . yeah . user interface : it will be much ch much expensive th though it 's the most natural thing , but project manager : yes but i can i think uh i think we can just use more cheap plastic for a kind of basic edition , and then people can fancy it up with with more expensive materials user interface : yeah . yeah project manager : which which come with a with another price . user interface : it 's uh yeah we we can give a preference to them , but it is but with plastic or the rubber or whatever it is it 's much better with that rather than going for project manager : do do you agree ? marketing : mm yeah sure . industrial designer : yeah but i it 's a detailed uh yeah yeah uh plastic versus uh wood , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and we need maybe to centre our description on uh the the really the what buttons what uh functionality we want to offer to the user , and maybe with uh graphs or i do n't know uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface designer you could maybe uh help us on that . project manager : ma i i think uh for next meeting we c you two can present a real design . uh so drawing it on the board . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . industrial designer : perfect yeah . project manager : and then we now sh only have to t to decide the general function uh . so um let let 's say next meeting w you produce two designs , one one one less advanced and one more advanced and with the cost price . user interface : yeah sure . yeah we will uh yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh furthermore we go for the for the uh basic plastic case which can be later uh fancied up with uh with addit uh additional uh , how do you call them , these like like mobile telephones you can put a cover over it . but that that that that can be done later . user interface : yeah . project manager : we now can concentrate on the on the basic remote control . user interface : . industrial designer : yeah customized . user interface : okay . we can give them smooth keys , you know . smooth keys with bigger s uh so that you know the the problem most of the time we 've seen , the keys is that it 's small , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and every time we have to be very but if i the if we if we go to a different ways of designing those keys , then you can merge them together marketing : so is there any of these that you 're looking at particularly user interface : to marketing : or is this just ideas ? user interface : oh you can actually , for example , if you see , they are they are they are quite small over here , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh now you can , for example , as i was if you make them big , it may change the look of the thing also to the people . marketing : hmm . mm . mm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : at the same time , it is m more uh like it would be more interesting for people who are having this r_s_i_ and all problem . marketing : mm yeah . project manager : yes yes yes bi big keys is is good thing i think . user interface : uh big keys may better for them actually and uh marketing : you see ? industrial designer : i agree yeah , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and not too m too many keys of course yeah . marketing : mm well project manager : no no . marketing : one i 've had before , a r r remote control we have at home is one that 's actually got a cover on the bottom user interface : yeah . marketing : so the bottom bit is just , covers half the keys most of the time , and then you can slide the cover back to get to the the more advanced keys . project manager : mm mm mm . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm w but then you have still have uh when you do n't use it you have such a a an extent of your remote control which you do n't use . so maybe it 's possible uh , i do n't know whether you can can indicate this , that you can elsewhere open your remote control and on the inside are uh buttons you do n't use that much . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm . yeah . um yeah i 've seen that before too . anoth another like b user interface : yeah . marketing : it flips up and then you 've got another layer of buttons underneath . user interface : yes . yeah so it 's something like this , the model here s you can put the keys marketing : but i 've seen also with keys and buttons on the top of here as well . industrial designer : that 's what you mean ? project manager : yes i i th that 's what i mean user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : so i mean something like like a book . marketing : i like this one . i like the shape of this one . user interface : yeah . marketing : can we have can we think about maybe having a a non-recta non non-rectangular one , so with not just the straight little box industrial designer : yeah i like also this one . marketing : that 's a maybe curved or something . user interface : yeah , mm . industrial designer : yeah , the point is w maybe we need to also to make a decision on how how how big we want to be and how many buttons like n we should dec decide numbers or marketing : mm mm 'kay . is this for the next meeting though ? user interface : we should make a marketing : i think we might be out of time out of time for this meeting . project manager : mm . user interface : yeah that yeah next meeting we should be project manager : ju just make two designs , industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah that would depend upon us actually . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah . project manager : and the we we can decide decide between th those designs . user interface : yeah okay . project manager : i think that would be a good idea . so industrial designer : perfect . project manager : anyone uh any questions for now ? user interface : no no . i do n't have . marketing : no . so is this is there anything else i need to do from a marketing point of view for the next meeting ? project manager : um yes i come to that uh uh user interface : maybe it would be interesting if you could look um for the cost inventories of other devices , if you 're using speech recognition or something like that . project manager : yes well m maybe uh , i do n't know whether that 's possible , maybe you can start evaluating uh their work somehow . marketing : okay well is this me designing a way to evaluate it so thinking about how to set up test groups and things ? project manager : i do n't know whether that 's possible uh in the given time but a as far as possible . marketing : okay . yep . project manager : so uh you two will be together w working on a o on two prototypes industrial designer : exactly . user interface : mm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and further instructions will be uh will be sent to you by uh by email . industrial designer : two or three prototypes ? user interface : one for like cost and the one with like higher-end project manager : i industrial designer : okay . project manager : mm and then user interface : so that then we can be easily comparing them project manager : hmm . user interface : or you know find a compromise between both of them , industrial designer : and find maybe a compromise . project manager : yes okay . user interface : yeah that 's how it is . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : perfect yeah . project manager : okay let 's call this to an end . marketing : mm 'kay . user interface : okay . marketing : thanks guys . industrial designer : thanks . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about product requirements based on market survey . </s> marketing : mm-hmm . okay so this is just a presentation on uh the trends that we 're gon na use to make the product stand out from the rest of the products out there at the moment . um can i just put this on ? so we have to work out a way what we can do with our product to make it stand out and make it so people wan na buy it . um . this is to do this i will not remove my microphone . we basically used um some focus group surveys which i went through with you last time , the main results of that , and um some research on the current design um and fashion trends that are out there at the moment um , industrial designer : marketing : and as part of this the important aspects that came out were things that we 've already discussed really . the most important by far was the look and feel of it . it needs to be something that 's very different from everything else out there . it needs to stand out . it needs to be not functional like the rest of the things out there at the moment . most people find remote controls boring at the moment , we need to have something that looks interesting , that looks exciting , that will stand out . people will wan na buy it . um that was twice as i important as the next item on here which is that it has to be technologically innovative has to have something else , apart from just the look of it . people have to then think about it and say got something there that i want . that 's a really cool feature , and it has to make them wan na buy it again . third on the list , and again innovative was twice as important as this last um aspect , it has to be easy to use . so they have to be able to be able to look at it and have some intuitive idea of how to use it um . drawing on the fashion trends at the moment , uh fruit and vegetables um . this is basically talking about just the the feel of it , so probably not the smell of it , but the bright colours , um eye-catching , really bold designs , and a spongy feel . user interface : industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um i had a talk to the design people about this , but having a remote that 's tactile , that feels different , that would be really cool . that would make it stand out . um . industrial designer : so can you repeat and be more precise about what you just said ? project manager : spongy feel ? industrial designer : uh about the feeling yeah uh yo user interface : you can marketing : ma make it not necessar sp spongy is the current thing . spongy is the current texture , but basically there are no reports no remotes at the moment which are spongy or tactile at all , so if we make it like maybe furry or soft or something , that 'll be something that sets it apart , industrial designer : okay . marketing : rather than just bare plastic which they all are at the moment . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : so as far as the design goes , the very most important aspect was the design , to the customers . so going with the fruit and vegetable idea , we 've got the bright colours , so makes it stand out , the oranges and the the bright yellows and the florescent colours , part of the fruit and vegetables um . going back to the idea of taking inspiration from mobile phones , they 've all got those a lot of them have the changeable covers , so they can choose what colour the outside is . that 's one way of looking at it um . textured feel we just talked about . maybe it 's another way of doing that . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so if it 's part of the the changeable covers then may maybe they can choose a different texture , a spongy one or a soft one or something like that . so they can choose it li as they want to to maybe to fit in with their decor in their living room , or just what they like , their sports team or whatever . industrial designer : yeah that 's a very good idea , yeah . yeah . marketing : um and yeah , still taking the inspiration from the mobile phone design so functionality , the way the mobile phones work , the way the keypad looks . also just the way that a lot of industrial design is going into mobile phones at the moment . they 're big selling items . people put a lot of thought into that so we can leverage off that , and we can start using some of their ideas . um back to technological in in innovation , not quite as important , but still a big issue . um we talked about having a way of finding a remote control if it 's been lost , uh that 's one thing we could look at . there are other aspects like lcd screens and speech recognition which were n't i do n't think , in my personal opinion , gon na be worth the extra expense and the extra effort that will go into them . i think we 're better doing something basic like this industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : which is very important and very will be a really cool feature to put in . and use . i had no real specific ideas for this , maybe we just , the basic idea of having your core functions big and at the top maybe , by themselves , project manager : mm . yes well marketing : and then project manager : maybe matthew can can give some more information on the user interface : yeah . marketing : and then th th the finer details of buttons you do n't use as much either hidden away or completely separate . yep and that 's the presentation . user interface : voila . project manager : okay good , that 's very clear . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah very clear . project manager : 'kay . um . uh marketing : so does anyone have any comments or ideas on that ? i think you project manager : maybe we yes well we maybe can decide later on um the l the the look and feel of uh i 've it was a good idea maybe to to industrial designer : to let the people choose , you mean ? project manager : yes the the the there are changeable covers , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but on the other hand i i do n't know whether my superiors would be so glad with it because you have to introduce a complete uh uh new l line of uh of supplies uh it would be uh very complicated uh organisational industrial designer : marketing : well we 're selling so many units of this . this is gon na be a mass marketed product , we can afford to have two or three different designs at least . project manager : hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah a range of uh yeah , a set of three , four different aspects . marketing : mm mm . project manager : yes . mm-hmm . industrial designer : sure that fits the project manager : yes and of course it will be a we we get a if it works we can get uh after-sales i mean that would would be very good i mean those covers could go for for three , five euro . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that 's a very good idea um and then uh maybe uh we can go a th matthew 's presentation because marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : the user interface : then we could discuss later like we can put all ideas together . project manager : together indeed uh , user interface : it should be easier with that . project manager : because you ma might have some some information on the the easy to use , industrial designer : yeah yeah i agree . marketing : mm-hmm , yeah . project manager : what you were already mentioning . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so industrial designer : and your part is very related to mine user interface : yeah . industrial designer : because when you suggest something then it has to be integrated inside . user interface : yeah so i 'll i 'll go with that actually </s>
<s> what did the marketing recommend when discussing product requirements ? </s> marketing : and as part of this the important aspects that came out were things that we 've already discussed really . the most important by far was the look and feel of it . it needs to be something that 's very different from everything else out there . it needs to stand out . it needs to be not functional like the rest of the things out there at the moment . most people find remote controls boring at the moment , we need to have something that looks interesting , that looks exciting , that will stand out . people will wan na buy it . um that was twice as i important as the next item on here which is that it has to be technologically innovative has to have something else , apart from just the look of it . people have to then think about it and say got something there that i want . that 's a really cool feature , and it has to make them wan na buy it again . third on the list , and again innovative was twice as important as this last um aspect , it has to be easy to use . so they have to be able to be able to look at it and have some intuitive idea of how to use it um . drawing on the fashion trends at the moment , uh fruit and vegetables um . this is basically talking about just the the feel of it , so probably not the smell of it , but the bright colours , um eye-catching , really bold designs , and a spongy feel . user interface : industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : um i had a talk to the design people about this , but having a remote that 's tactile , that feels different , that would be really cool . that would make it stand out . um . industrial designer : so can you repeat and be more precise about what you just said ? project manager : spongy feel ? industrial designer : uh about the feeling yeah uh yo user interface : you can marketing : ma make it not necessar sp spongy is the current thing . spongy is the current texture , but basically there are no reports no remotes at the moment which are spongy or tactile at all , so if we make it like maybe furry or soft or something , that 'll be something that sets it apart , industrial designer : okay . marketing : rather than just bare plastic which they all are at the moment . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : so as far as the design goes , the very most important aspect was the design , to the customers . so going with the fruit and vegetable idea , we 've got the bright colours , so makes it stand out , the oranges and the the bright yellows and the florescent colours , part of the fruit and vegetables um . going back to the idea of taking inspiration from mobile phones , they 've all got those a lot of them have the changeable covers , so they can choose what colour the outside is . that 's one way of looking at it um . textured feel we just talked about . maybe it 's another way of doing that . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so if it 's part of the the changeable covers then may maybe they can choose a different texture , a spongy one or a soft one or something like that . so they can choose it li as they want to to maybe to fit in with their decor in their living room , or just what they like , their sports team or whatever . industrial designer : yeah that 's a very good idea , yeah . yeah . marketing : um and yeah , still taking the inspiration from the mobile phone design so functionality , the way the mobile phones work , the way the keypad looks . also just the way that a lot of industrial design is going into mobile phones at the moment . they 're big selling items . people put a lot of thought into that so we can leverage off that , and we can start using some of their ideas . um back to technological in in innovation , not quite as important , but still a big issue . um we talked about having a way of finding a remote control if it 's been lost , uh that 's one thing we could look at . there are other aspects like lcd screens and speech recognition which were n't i do n't think , in my personal opinion , gon na be worth the extra expense and the extra effort that will go into them . i think we 're better doing something basic like this industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : which is very important and very will be a really cool feature to put in . and use . i had no real specific ideas for this , maybe we just , the basic idea of having your core functions big and at the top maybe , by themselves , project manager : mm . yes well marketing : and then project manager : maybe matthew can can give some more information on the user interface : yeah . marketing : and then th th the finer details of buttons you do n't use as much either hidden away or completely separate . yep and that 's the presentation . user interface : voila . project manager : okay good , that 's very clear . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah very clear . project manager : 'kay . um . uh marketing : so does anyone have any comments or ideas on that ? i think you project manager : maybe we yes well we maybe can decide later on um the l the the look and feel of uh i 've it was a good idea maybe to to industrial designer : to let the people choose , you mean ? project manager : yes the the the there are changeable covers , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but on the other hand i i do n't know whether my superiors would be so glad with it because you have to introduce a complete uh uh new l line of uh of supplies uh it would be uh very complicated uh organisational industrial designer : </s>
<s> what did the project manager think of having a changeable cover when discussing product requirements ? </s> project manager : maybe we yes well we maybe can decide later on um the l the the look and feel of uh i 've it was a good idea maybe to to industrial designer : to let the people choose , you mean ? project manager : yes the the the there are changeable covers , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but on the other hand i i do n't know whether my superiors would be so glad with it because you have to introduce a complete uh uh new l line of uh of supplies uh it would be uh very complicated uh organisational industrial designer : marketing : well we 're selling so many units of this . this is gon na be a mass marketed product , we can afford to have two or three different designs at least . project manager : hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah a range of uh yeah , a set of three , four different aspects . marketing : mm mm . project manager : yes . mm-hmm . industrial designer : sure that fits the project manager : yes and of course it will be a we we get a if it works we can get uh after-sales i mean that would would be very good i mean those covers could go for for three , five euro . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about industrial and functional design of the product . </s> user interface : and uh there is also um a speech recognition to store channel information , names , like you can basically if you have a multiple functionality , say tv , v_c_r_ or something i say it to the tv and the tv , and you can programme the keys if you want to , certain keys are even the channel information . marketing : mm . mm . i like the idea though of having speech recognition for like the n the name of a channel like b_b_c_ , rather than having to remember the the number of it on the keypad . that 's a good idea . user interface : yeah yeah so you you you can just uh because uh as more and more channels come then you have more and more problems to remember the v v exact channel numbers ex exactly , industrial designer : . yeah . user interface : even if you arrange it by however you arrange it , you still have the problem to remember exactly which channel you want to marketing : hmm . mm . yeah i really like that idea . industrial designer : so what functionalities do you suggest for that ? for facing this problem ? user interface : so it it it 's like it limited one . in the present market i saw it that says something like they are looking for eighty word thing , eighty word , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : which should n't be th that difficult to implement , like eighty to hundred word . basically you want you do n't want to store all the channels in the remote control , you want to st store your favourite channel . marketing : maybe ten channels , yeah at the most . user interface : yeah some ten twelve channel information . you know you do n't want to st store all the hundred channel information into that . industrial designer : okay . user interface : and uh basically uh it depends like the remote with lcd display for browsing because you have multiple functionalities for example you are watching a movie , and uh uh you are having a universal remote control and you want to uh you do n't know really which functionality is now , so i am using the tv so every time i use it , it could be like , for example i can use a simple toggle switch , and a display , so i press it so the display says , okay , i 'm in tv or d_v_d_ or whatever it is , instead of having three keys separately for four keys , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . oh yeah yeah yeah mm . user interface : to model the functionalities will increase actually , and for you and you might want you do n't want separate keys for all of them . you ca n't . and uh well there can be children friendly where you can programme your remote so that they they are not allowed uh to browse certain channels which you can block them , and you can operate them . so these are the things presently which are seen in the market scenarios at present . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i personally would look at things like having a u universal remote , is uh um is a good idea , like instead of having unusual ones for all of them you can think of having , um with multiple functionality possibly with speech recognition . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i got a mail from the the coffee machine interface unit that uh they have uh integrated the s speech recognition into a into the coffee machine , industrial designer : user interface : and so if you say hello coffee machine , it say hi joe , or something like that , you know , and uh marketing : but a coffee machine , there 's not too many words they 'd be using with that it 's a it 's a small vocabulary . user interface : yeah you you wo n't be using it , so it 's a limited vocabulary mm thing , and very isolated word marketing : mm . mm . user interface : and it 's uh it is interesting , and basically storing the channel through voice or other ways of programming your keys , on the display for the browsing which is again and maybe having something like a blinking thing , like uh it could indicate you 're uh it it could indicate what is cal like the uh whether uh you you have enough battery in your in your uh remote , the blinking . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : at the same time , if it 's a dark room , it can be used to locate the remote also marketing : user interface : or industrial designer : and you want okay for coming back to one point marketing : two thirty five supposed to finish . industrial designer : y you want to let the user to programming the keys ? some of them ? user interface : yeah you can let them to do that . industrial designer : and uh is n't that too difficult for the we want w i do n't know if we still want the um r_c_ to be easy to use , that 's the compromise . user interface : n no but the if you give it d depends on the easiness like the user how much effort he can put . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : like for example uh i would like to store in certain way , so if you want to give the full freedom to the user or you want to keep some constraints and let the user use it with that constraint . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . mm . i think you can do it both ways . user interface : so it de industrial designer : yeah . marketing : you can have it so it 's easy they can pick it up and use it straight away without doing anythi without customizing it , industrial designer : a standard . marketing : or if they want to they have the option of using these extra features . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um yes but but i do user interface : so industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and also well you can think of having uh since you have a you know something maybe if you added little bit of display , you might need the to che keep checking the battery , so you really need a some kind of indicator , so it could be a blinking option of l_e_d_ it could actually be used to detect also . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : if it 's in a dark room you can basically detect it also . marketing : mm . hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i like the idea too of being able to use the remote in the dark , user interface : so marketing : so either having the buttons so you can feel the difference between them or if they if they light up or something . user interface : no actually i if i it is like you know it tells you um , it can be for two purposes , like if you have an lcd display and all those things it 's not going to be the standard remote , marketing : mm . hmm . user interface : which is having uh which need just uh six six volt uh th sorry three volts um of d_c_ . it may need more actually , so y you you may need to check your battery usage it and then you need that , some functionality to indicate the battery limit . and then if the battery limit is indicated , if it could be ind indicated through a blinking something industrial designer : it 's true . user interface : and it can change the colour depending on your uh how much is the battery , well that is good enough to even locate even if you want to . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : you know . project manager : 'kay good . industrial designer : . user interface : yeah so industrial designer : i do n't know how if if i have time to talk about the project manager : mm yes um i would user interface : you you have time some more ? yep . project manager : yes yes you can you can still . we have time . marketing : user interface : sure you can you know . industrial designer : okay . so what i 'm gon na present here is very uh um yeah basic knowledge about the all the the components that are inside a a r_c_ a remote control , and how is it manufactured h what is the process , just to explain you . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so the method is ther there is a a set of components in a in a remote control like , and uh what cost the the components in themself do not cost a lot but the the way to assemble everything costs obviously , and i will uh show you my preferences uh uh at the end . so there are two uh different types of uh um two different ways of using the the components for making a a remote control . project manager : nice . industrial designer : uh the basic way is to use a an integrated circuit and some uh transistors with an that aims at communicating uh uh the message and to to send the message to the um to the led that will uh transmit to the receiver . and uh yeah the other components and the circuit board buttons , infrared , led , etcetera , for the components um . so you finding , just to say that the chip can detect uh when a key is pressed , and then it translate to the key , to a sequence , something like morse code , as you know , uh with a different sequence for each key , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh uh that 's , with the components we will use , we will have different uh messages , different sequences , and the chips sends that signal signal to the transistor that amplify to make it stronger um . so electronic parts are assembled onto uh printed boards uh because it 's easier to mass produce and assemble . and uh so i think for our design we want some b uh programmable uh you know v_ v_l_s_i_ or f_p_g_a_ uh high technology , user interface : yeah mm mm-hmm . industrial designer : and this is important , and also we 'll use uh yeah like in any uh high-tech uh devices a chip of fi fibreglass to them and connect them . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so my personal design we need to find a solution what um what is the material of the cover we want to use . if it 's plastic or you said that yeah you had some ideas uh like fruit , veg or project manager : well well industrial designer : i dunno . marketing : project manager : m m maybe m maybe we can give the uh the uh the case a very uh uh normal a v very normal case but , with the changeable covers to fancy it up . industrial designer : yes . yes . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so like a normal cheap plastic case which can be covered up in , for instance , a wooden case . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm just have a yeah industrial designer : yeah like they do in with cars i think . yeah inside the car marketing : just the veneer on it , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . so they also emailed me that uh they have available a bunch of different buttons , a scroll wheels , integrated push buttons s such as a computer mouse . and uh very cheap lcds , so liquid crystal displays , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so i 'm wondering , i think we might be able to integrate lcd into our r_c_ . and the final point okay is um we have yeah there are some uh compromise to to do . project manager : so i f i think we we should come to some decisions now uh a about this . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um so i understand uh when we want a display we need a expensive chip , but when we want a scrolling wheel w we also need the expensive chip , so can we use same chip , so with one expensive chip we can uh implement several complicated uh or advanced features . industrial designer : exactly yeah that 's a very good idea , we could have uh one main chip uh that could handle , uh it 's called f_p_g_a_ chip , that could handle both uh like scrolling wheels as well as uh lcd project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : when the more expensive chip you mentioned there is is possible in the in the given budget , uh maybe we should go for for the more expensive chip , so all features uh which you mentioned can be implemented based on the same chip . user interface : d well project manager : do you think that 's feasible ? user interface : yeah that 's uh that 's something which i wanted to ask you also , like what will be the each individually the cost of it . for example if f if you want to put wood i would n't suggest for wood industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh 'cause it 's i think it 's m much easier to use a plastic or a rubber rather than wood . industrial designer : okay . i agree on that . yeah . user interface : it will be much ch much expensive th though it 's the most natural thing , but project manager : yes but i can i think uh i think we can just use more cheap plastic for a kind of basic edition , and then people can fancy it up with with more expensive materials user interface : yeah . yeah project manager : which which come with a with another price . user interface : it 's uh yeah we we can give a preference to them , but it is but with plastic or the rubber or whatever it is it 's much better with that rather than going for project manager : do do you agree ? marketing : mm yeah sure . industrial designer : yeah but i it 's a detailed uh yeah yeah uh plastic versus uh wood , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and we need maybe to centre our description on uh the the really the what buttons what uh functionality we want to offer to the user , and maybe with uh graphs or i do n't know uh user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface designer you could maybe uh help us on that . project manager : ma i i think uh for next meeting we c you two can present a real design . uh so drawing it on the board . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . industrial designer : perfect yeah . project manager : and then we now sh only have to t to decide the general function uh . so um let let 's say next meeting w you produce two designs , one one one less advanced and one more advanced and with the cost price . user interface : yeah sure . yeah we will uh yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh furthermore we go for the for the uh basic plastic case which can be later uh fancied up with uh with addit uh additional uh , how do you call them , these like like mobile telephones you can put a cover over it . but that that that that can be done later . user interface : yeah . project manager : we now can concentrate on the on the basic remote control . user interface : . industrial designer : yeah customized . user interface : okay . we can give them smooth keys , you know . smooth keys with bigger s uh so that you know the the problem most of the time we 've seen , the keys is that it 's small , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and every time we have to be very but if i the if we if we go to a different ways of designing those keys , then you can merge them together marketing : so is there any of these that you 're looking at particularly user interface : to marketing : or is this just ideas ? user interface : oh you can actually , for example , if you see , they are they are they are quite small over here , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and uh now you can , for example , as i was if you make them big , it may change the look of the thing also to the people . marketing : hmm . mm . mm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : at the same time , it is m more uh like it would be more interesting for people who are having this r_s_i_ and all problem . marketing : mm yeah . project manager : yes yes yes bi big keys is is good thing i think . user interface : uh big keys may better for them actually and uh marketing : you see ? industrial designer : i agree yeah , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and not too m too many keys of course yeah . marketing : mm well project manager : no no . marketing : one i 've had before , a r r remote control we have at home is one that 's actually got a cover on the bottom user interface : yeah . marketing : so the bottom bit is just , covers half the keys most of the time , and then you can slide the cover back to get to the the more advanced keys . project manager : mm mm mm . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm w but then you have still have uh when you do n't use it you have such a a an extent of your remote control which you do n't use . so maybe it 's possible uh , i do n't know whether you can can indicate this , that you can elsewhere open your remote control and on the inside are uh buttons you do n't use that much . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm . yeah . um yeah i 've seen that before too . anoth another like b user interface : yeah . marketing : it flips up and then you 've got another layer of buttons underneath . user interface : yes . yeah so it 's something like this , the model here s you can put the keys marketing : but i 've seen also with keys and buttons on the top of here as well . industrial designer : that 's what you mean ? project manager : yes i i th that 's what i mean user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : so i mean something like like a book . marketing : i like this one . i like the shape of this one . user interface : yeah . marketing : can we have can we think about maybe having a a non-recta non non-rectangular one , so with not just the straight little box industrial designer : yeah i like also this one . marketing : that 's a maybe curved or something . user interface : yeah , mm . </s>
<s> what was the decision of the discussion about the feasibility of letting the user program the keys ? </s> industrial designer : y you want to let the user to programming the keys ? some of them ? user interface : yeah you can let them to do that . industrial designer : and uh is n't that too difficult for the we want w i do n't know if we still want the um r_c_ to be easy to use , that 's the compromise . user interface : n no but the if you give it d depends on the easiness like the user how much effort he can put . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : like for example uh i would like to store in certain way , so if you want to give the full freedom to the user or you want to keep some constraints and let the user use it with that constraint . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . mm . i think you can do it both ways . user interface : so it de industrial designer : yeah . marketing : you can have it so it 's easy they can pick it up and use it straight away without doing anythi without customizing it , industrial designer : a standard . marketing : or if they want to they have the option of using these extra features . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um yes but but i do user interface : so </s>
<s> what did the group talk about the cost control of the product ? </s> project manager : maybe you can give a hand to us because i i 'm not sure whether that that we can implement that for twelve euro and fifty cents . user interface : so project manager : i 'm sorry to have every time i have to come down on this price again to so this might be a little limiting for your creativity , but it 's it 's it 's the real we have to consider it . s so industrial designer : yeah . project manager : do we think these ideas an and my uh sp speech recognition , i mean maybe it 's possible for for twelve euro but then then it will be at cost of other functionality we might implement like the uh uh the the the furry uh uh case of the marketing : mm . hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm yeah like i would say that for programming uh keys , you said , uh it could be uh easily uh done within the the package of twel twelve euros , user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : but for the a_s_r_ system , uh i 'm not sure if it 's feasible to have this user interface : we well we can still look at we can talk with the coffee unit industrial designer : we user interface : and you can uh check how much how much they industrial designer : exactly yeah i if if it 's a low vocabulary it 's already implemented , user interface : yeah yeah yeah . industrial designer : and w how much it 's cost , maybe with a f cheap chip . user interface : maybe we can come we we can talk to them , and we can come with that , project manager : mm mm . user interface : you know . industrial designer : yeah . so we have to know that the push button requires a simple chip , but the scroll wheel uh and that kind of higher high-tech stuff needs more money um which is a higher price range alright . and the display requires an advanced chip , which in turns is more expensive than the regular chip , but i think uh with twelve euros um and if it 's uh uh made for mm four million uh items , then i think w we could be able to handle that . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so to to sum up um we need yeah so i i just said that the components uh the list of components uh has to be uh yeah listed and um and um assembly is a an important process that has to be taken into account . and uh for the designing of the cove uh uh cover layout then it 's better to to to maybe see that with uh the the u_r_ exp u_r_i_ expert user interface : sorry . industrial designer : so that we can it 's really a team-working uh . so i i can not design something without your agreement , project manager : no of course . user interface : yeah so industrial designer : right ? user interface : of course for example uh i wanted to know like if you want to have a a fo if you want to have the lcd display over there , or if you want to store a programmes with a keys what kind of things you 'll need inside your thin inside w wh what industrial designer : yeah it 's kind of um simple pro progra programmable device , and we have to insert . user interface : w what okay . okay . industrial designer : i think we could insert one that could underlie several functions user interface : okay so industrial designer : of user interface : in that case you can even look at the technology what the mobile phone is trying to use with the card . industrial designer : exactly yeah , for customizing and yeah . user interface : yeah where they do all the wi with with them actually . how f cost effective it would be to put that car chip into it and do the programmable things . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so industrial designer : yeah . yeah good idea . user interface : well i do n't know if it 'll fit into our cost of twelve point five euro you know . project manager : uh you th you think it 's possible . user interface : is it possible to fit in to that ? industrial designer : yeah also thinking , i think both uh if we had a budget of twenty twenty uh euros , it will be okay , user interface : sorry . industrial designer : but uh . marketing : well maybe we need specific costings then . actually do maybe two designs and then cost them out and see which one is gon na fit in our budget better . project manager : mm yes industrial designer : yeah that 's an excellent idea . project manager : wh when you make a a design ca you can next meeting you can give an quite an exact cost price . industrial designer : yeah yeah . yeah project manager : that w that would be a very good idea . industrial designer : because right now i do n't have price in in head but for next meeting i 'm sure yeah be able to do that . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : hello . dang it . project manager : and then you have to place your laptop exactly on the marked spot . marketing : alright . project manager : it 's important to place your laptop exactly on the marked spot over here . user interface : okay . no , that 's okay . joost , your mouse . marketing : what ? user interface : no mouse needed ? marketing : i 've got a touch-pad . do you know how how i can wake it up ? user interface : a touch-pad ? marketing : no , my laptop . user interface : slap it . marketing : you with your brilliant ideas . i do n't know if i can touch the power button . do you know how how i can wake it up ? user interface : is project manager : no . yeah . try the power button . user interface : marketing : come on , move it . user interface : um marketing : now , wake up , bitch . user interface : f_ five . f_ five . industrial designer : i 've lost my screen . uh marketing : yeah , so did i . user interface : i do n't . marketing : i closed it . that wasn that was n't very smart , i guess . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : come on . get back to me . yes . user interface : industrial designer : i closed the marketing : i closed it . user interface : you 've got your name . project manager : yeah , my name is name . marketing : no , i did n't restart it , i just closed it . yes . user interface : hope it working . marketing : alright . user interface : never close your laptop . project manager : yeah ? everybody 's ready ? user interface : yeah . marketing : great . thanks . project manager : great . well , welcome to the kick-off meeting . i uh forgot to put my name over here , it 's uh it 's martin . uh , so you all know . marketing : project manager : well , this is the agenda for today . well , the opening is what i 'm doing right now . user interface : project manager : uh , we gon na do some acquaintance acquaintance things . uh give some um examples of the tool training , project plan discussion and the closing . we have twenty five minutes . okay , the project aim is to design a new remote control . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh , some of the oje objectives are that is has to be original , trendy , and user-friendly . so now we all know what our user interface : okay . project manager : goal is . um , i oh forget i forget the whole acquaintance part , but we we all know each other . we all know each other 's names . joost , guido , antek . user interface : what is your name ? industrial designer : yes . antek . user interface : antek ahmet . and joost . project manager : okay . i think we uh al already uh been through that part . user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : okay , it consists of uh three levels of design . uh we begin with the functional design , then we go to the conceptual design and the detailed design . every uh level of design consists of some individual work , and we uh close it with a meeting . you all received an email with a example of our explanation of what uh the particular level of design uh means to the different uh functions , and uh you p you probably read that already , so i do n't have to tell you about that . okay , first we 're gon na um uh gon na try some different things with the tools we have over here , so you get acquainted with these uh um uh meeting tools . we have the smart-boards , uh the thes those two boards . this is the presentation boards , wh which one i 'm using right now . you can uh um there 's a document folder called um the sh shared document folder . you can upload your uh documents to that folder and then you can open them over here , so you can do your powerpoint presentations on this screen . we also have the white-board . uh , we 're gon na skip through th user interface : can we see the white-board on our laptops ? project manager : no , no . just on the on the screen over there . user interface : no , i saw i saw the file , the smart-board that x_b_k_ but project manager : oh , no . probably is , but i do n't know if the software is on the laptop . is is if it 's mainly a thing for in the meeting , so i do n't think it 's i do n't know if it 's important . user interface : okay . project manager : this an explanation of the smart-boards . there is a tool-bar over here . it 's quite simple . you have the the pen function , eraser function . it 's like a very simple uh paint application . uh , we well , we use the same file during uh the whole day , and uh you can make new sheets by uh by pu puttin pressing on the blank button . it works like this . oh . if pen is selected , yes . user interface : marketing : project manager : oh , no no . user interface : with that pen ? project manager : it 's not but it is pen . it 's not working like a pen yet . huh . huh . it 's doing some stuff now . so you can use a pen . user interface : little bit slower . project manager : you can use an eraser . and you can make new uh fi uh new blanks , and you can change uh the line width and the colour of the pen by pressing on forward , which y you have to select pen format . and then select current colour or line width . so , it 's quite easy . uh well , now you 're all uh acquainted with the different tools . right , we 're gon na try out the electronic white-boards . uh , every participant should draw his favourite animal and some of its favourite characteristics , user interface : industrial designer : project manager : on blank sheets with different colours , with different pen widths . uh , i 'll start off then . marketing : project manager : i 'll use this uh same sheet . alright . oh , let me think . different colours . oh . marketing : project manager : well , i 'm gon na draw um a p piranha . uh , a fish . user interface : piranha . okay . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : uh . user interface : project manager : mm-hmm . i 'm gon na use some different colour now . marketing : project manager : some a little white . looks like a fish . think it is . oh . user interface : project manager : oh . uh , colour . this is black ? i think so . user interface : yellow project manager : oh . oh , this is just uh useless uh drawings but marketing : project manager : oh teeth . i need teeth . well , they 're not supposed to be green , or whatever colour this is . marketing : project manager : okay . what was uh i have su to sum up its favourite characteris user interface : different . project manager : well , i like its uh sharp razor sharp teeth . plus , uh the the big uh forehead and uh a small uh , well a small actual face . and i like its overall uh aggressive look and well , that 's what i like about uh piranha . i think that 's kind of what uh the intention should be . user interface : okay . project manager : well , who wants to be next ? marketing : nobody , i guess . user interface : i will try . yeah . i will try . uh project manager : you go , guido ? okay . uh , make a new sheet . uh , it 's by pressing on blank . user interface : blank ? okay . then pen again ? marketing : user interface : okay . project manager : and uh so in the format menu you can choose the different uh colours and uh pen widths . user interface : okay , um marketing : format . user interface : control . uh ah , purple . um , i do n't know what my uh favourite uh animal is , marketing : user interface : but the easiest animal i can think is is a bird . project manager : marketing : user interface : uh i will marketing : project manager : marketing : you know , i thought of that actually . user interface : that 's my bird . yeah ? marketing : yeah . user interface : is n't it quite it 's a little bit light . marketing : project manager : user interface : marketing : user interface : uh , another colour maybe . a red one . marketing : user interface : a small one . uh , line width . two ? three . oh that 's okay . that 's another one . marketing : project manager : well , tell us something about uh your favourite characteristics of these uh particular birds . user interface : ano uh uh it 's a marketing : its simplicity . project manager : user interface : yeah , it 's uh the most simple uh animal i know , i think . marketing : project manager : industrial designer : user interface : um , i do n't know . maybe because uh there 's there 's some s uh free uh maybe in the sky or something like that . project manager : oh , okay . okay . user interface : maybe a little bit . yeah . i do n't know . project manager : okay . no , uh it 's clear . user interface : so more uh birds ? project manager : n no no . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : we get your point . okay . who wants to be next ? user interface : okay , okay , okay . marketing : yeah , whatever . i 'll go next . user interface : marketing : thanks . i have n't got a favourite animal too , so user interface : pictionary . project manager : marketing : oh . what should i draw ? industrial designer : user interface : a cow . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : user interface : okay . marketing : thank you , project manager : marketing : i 'll draw a penguin . yeah . i 'll draw a penguin . whatever . i ca n't draw , so you can start to laugh already . project manager : i 'll do so . industrial designer : marketing : whatever . something like that . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : come on . user interface : yeah , it 's little bit hard . marketing : mm hmm hmm , orange . user interface : orange , of course . marketing : whatever . user interface : marketing : oh , it 's better than your bird . user interface : uh yeah . industrial designer : marketing : everything 's better than your bird . user interface : yeah . true . marketing : whatever . user interface : marketing : hey , it 's blue . no . whatever . um , i like its ugliness project manager : user interface : marketing : and uh yeah , whatever . the way it walks or whatever . project manager : okay . marketing : your turn . user interface : industrial designer : 'kay . marketing : drawing . industrial designer : i 'm going to draw a cat . i do n't know why , but a cat is a very uh smart animal . marketing : industrial designer : and you can have them at home . which is not as the case with uh with bingwings and project manager : well , you can have a piranha at home . user interface : marketing : user interface : industrial designer : ye yes , yeah . marketing : or a line . project manager : user interface : a little bit . marketing : i mean a bird . project manager : user interface : yeah . do n't mess with my birds , yeah . industrial designer : it 's not very uh very good drawn , but you can see a cat from it . marketing : hmm . it 's a handicapped cat . user interface : cat . project manager : i do n't think uh i do n't think uh darwin would agree with that . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : industrial designer : it 's marketing : user interface : industrial designer : ah , it 's not scared . he 's crying but project manager : . okay . user interface : marketing : he 's crying because it 's ugl because of his ugliness . industrial designer : project manager : what do you like about it then ? marketing : industrial designer : uh it 's i most cats are small . project manager : oh , okay . industrial designer : you can handle them . project manager : okay . okay . okay , user interface : marketing : project manager : and then we are uh through the tool training , i guess . user interface : okay . industrial designer : marketing : i would n't call it training , but project manager : okay , this is uh something about the project finance . the selling price of our remote control is gon na be twenty five euros . and our profit aim is fifteen million euros . we 're very ambitious on this one . user interface : project manager : the market range is international , so it 's gon na be sold world-wide , and the production cost should be a maximum of twelve euro fifty per remote control . so that 's clear . yeah ? user interface : okay . marketing : alright . project manager : okay , we 're now gon na discuss some stuff when well , we 're gon na brainstorm about uh what kind of kemoro romo remote control it 's gon na be . uh , well tell me about your experiences with the remote controls . do you have uh know what good experiences with remote controls ? or do they annoy you sometimes ? are they difficult to understand , or maybe they do n't interact with different kind of uh equipment very well ? marketing : i do n't th i do n't think the four of us got problems with remote controls , project manager : yeah , okay . marketing : but if you see elderly people , all these buttons , and then they buy new tv because their previous one was stolen or whatever . user interface : different . project manager : okay . marketing : and then a totally different remote control with with different functions on different places , and half of the functions a are removed , or whatever . uh , so i think what we need is is a clear uh remote control with uh grouped buttons , you know . all th all the buttons which apply to the text functions in in one uh project manager : different functions of of uh marketing : well , one area or whatever , not like the button to enter text on top of the remote control and the button to um , yeah , to minimise it to this this or whatever o o other functions totally somewhere else . project manager : okay . yeah . marketing : i think we should group them . project manager : okay . marketing : and same for the for the volume buttons and the the t project manager : and uh , is it gon na be a remote control that 's um what it can be used for different kind of equipment , like your tv and your home stereo ? marketing : well i was i was thinking uh since a tv is uh mostly used together with a v_c_r_ or d_v_d_ player or recorder , and not with a stereo , i think it should be good to include functions for v_c_r_s and d_v_d_ players , recorders . project manager : uh user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . but uh , the d_v_d_ players and home cinema sets often double as stereo hi-fi sets probably . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's what , from my experience . user interface : but is n't it marketing : i do n't know . hi-fi set is uh not often used uh as i know of in combination with television . project manager : okay . but we gon na user interface : it 's only for television , i thought . not marketing : yes . project manager : oh , it is only for televis user interface : i thought it was only for television . so so we probably do n't have to have to uh have the functions for d_v_d_ player or v_c_r_ . marketing : yes , it is only for television , but uh project manager : so wha what what wha what uh what document marketing : well well we we 're gon na brainstorm about that . if we think it 's useful , we do it . project manager : but , where where did it uh where did you find that ? user interface : uh , in the email . project manager : oh , okay . user interface : i thought it said uh marketing : that 's right . it 's a television remote control . user interface : yeah , television remote control . industrial designer : yes , marketing : but i was thinking since it is useful with d_v_d_ project manager : yeah , but most television remote controls support other functions as well . so we can industrial designer : yes , that 's uh something extras . project manager : no , we have to think about that . user interface : true . yeah . project manager : okay , uh but uh we 've gon na put some a uh is is it so user-friendliness , is a is a pri priority in this case , or user interface : true . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , also no one 's gon na buy it . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . true . industrial designer : only the experts . marketing : i guess . project manager : well , this the maybe is uh some aspect of the uh , or or some point at at which we can excel by making it very useful . marketing : yeah . project manager : that w well , then you 're you 're the usability uh man , so this uh gon na be a very important task for you then . user interface : oh my god . okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . well , other ideas ? how can we make it trendy or something ? do uh by just sh shape and the look of it ? industrial designer : uh , to go with to go with fashion and project manager : maybe a can opener underneath it ? user interface : for the bear . uh industrial designer : marketing : project manager : i do n't know . or someth something special , like uh m_p_ three player inside of it , or uh user interface : i i uh , no i think it project manager : oh , well then the production costs are gon na be too high probably . user interface : uh , i th i think yo we have to keep it simple , to get a whole market . marketing : yeah , way too high . yep . project manager : okay . maybe with different type of fronts or uh user interface : it 's international , so we have to use a standard . project manager : well , m has to be something spectacular or uh one which makes it marketing : well that 's an idea of course , yeah . project manager : we gon na skip back to the goals probably . uh , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : original , trendly , and user-friendly well , we al also already talked about user-friendliness . no , well something trendy and original , well that that goes hand in hand i guess . when something is original , it tends to be trendy , probably , marketing : yeah . project manager : or we should make it combination of that . 'kay , so you the um technical part of the process is something you 're gon na look after for , so you have to think about what kind of uh equipment you want to uh , you know , you want to manage with it . well , and that 's an important part for you then , with gogors regards to the user-friendly part of it . user interface : use friendly . yep . project manager : well , and you uh should look out for what makes it trendy . well , you know , y like some special feature . or some does it does it gets some gadgetness or something . marketing : yeah . yes , what the market wishes . project manager : okay . well , the closing . next meeting starts in thirty minutes . individual , i think so . the the industrial designer will w or the working design , of course , we will uh already s said that . the user interface designer is it a user inter user interface user interface : yeah . yeah , yeah . interface d marketing : yeah . project manager : the technical functions design . and the management expert of uh the marketing expert . user requirements specifi well , this one was already clear to us . specific instructions will be sent to you by your personal coach . i do n't know how much time we have left . marketing : project manager : oh , not many i guess . we started at twelve . marketing : you just got a message . project manager : oh , and what does it said ? marketing : and it said uh five minutes , so we got four and a half . user interface : oh , i do n't project manager : w okay , well um user interface : i did n't get a message . marketing : no . he 's the whatever . user interface : oh , the project manager . industrial designer : team leader . project manager : no , we 're uh ahead of schedule then . marketing : team leader . he is the whatever . project manager : yeah , close it . i 'm gon na make some minutes or take some minutes . user interface : okay . marketing : yes . project manager : and uh it 's it 's clear you can put the stuff in the project documents presentations . user interface : okay . project manager : you can all or we 're all uh marketing : project joc project documents is for showing uh on the white-board . project manager : yeah . yeah , but we 're all familiar with uh uh microsoft powerpoint , are we ? marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'm gon na wri uh write some stuff down marketing : alright . project manager : and then we 're ready . marketing : okay . project manager : or we can leave already i guess . marketing : yeah . project manager : or uh or sh or should we uh or is important that we leave at exact uh okay . marketing : no . i do n't think so . project manager : user interface : i do n't think oh marketing : great . project manager : we 'll see each other in uh thirty minutes . marketing : yeah . good luck . project manager : yeah , good luck . industrial designer : user interface : i will need it . marketing : i will need it . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about adding support for dvd players to the remote controls ? </s> project manager : and uh , is it gon na be a remote control that 's um what it can be used for different kind of equipment , like your tv and your home stereo ? marketing : well i was i was thinking uh since a tv is uh mostly used together with a v_c_r_ or d_v_d_ player or recorder , and not with a stereo , i think it should be good to include functions for v_c_r_s and d_v_d_ players , recorders . project manager : uh user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . but uh , the d_v_d_ players and home cinema sets often double as stereo hi-fi sets probably . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's what , from my experience . user interface : but is n't it marketing : i do n't know . hi-fi set is uh not often used uh as i know of in combination with television . project manager : okay . but we gon na user interface : it 's only for television , i thought . not marketing : yes . project manager : oh , it is only for televis user interface : i thought it was only for television . so so we probably do n't have to have to uh have the functions for d_v_d_ player or v_c_r_ . marketing : yes , it is only for television , but uh project manager : so wha what what wha what uh what document marketing : well well we we 're gon na brainstorm about that . if we think it 's useful , we do it . project manager : but , where where did it uh where did you find that ? user interface : uh , in the email . project manager : oh , okay . user interface : i thought it said uh marketing : that 's right . it 's a television remote control . user interface : yeah , television remote control . industrial designer : yes , marketing : but i was thinking since it is useful with d_v_d_ project manager : yeah , but most television remote controls support other functions as well . so we can industrial designer : yes , that 's uh something extras . project manager : no , we have to think about that . user interface : true . yeah . project manager : okay , uh but uh we 've gon na put some a uh is is it so user-friendliness , is a is a pri priority in this case , or user interface : true . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah , also no one 's gon na buy it . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . true . industrial designer : only the experts . marketing : i guess . project manager : well , this the maybe is uh some aspect of the uh , or or some point at at which we can excel by making it very useful . marketing : yeah . project manager : that w well , then you 're you 're the usability uh man , so this uh gon na be a very important task for you then . </s>
<s> what did user interface think of adding support for dvd players to the remote control ? </s> user interface : it 's only for television , i thought . not marketing : yes . project manager : oh , it is only for televis user interface : i thought it was only for television . so so we probably do n't have to have to uh have the functions for d_v_d_ player or v_c_r_ . marketing : yes , it is only for television , but uh project manager : so wha what what wha what uh what document marketing : well well we we 're gon na brainstorm about that . if we think it 's useful , we do it . project manager : but , where where did it uh where did you find that ? user interface : uh , in the email . project manager : oh , okay . user interface : i thought it said uh marketing : that 's right . it 's a television remote control . </s>
<s> what did project manager recommend to do when discussing adding support for dvd players to the remote control ? </s> project manager : and uh , is it gon na be a remote control that 's um what it can be used for different kind of equipment , like your tv and your home stereo ? marketing : well i was i was thinking uh since a tv is uh mostly used together with a v_c_r_ or d_v_d_ player or recorder , and not with a stereo , i think it should be good to include functions for v_c_r_s and d_v_d_ players , recorders . project manager : uh user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . but uh , the d_v_d_ players and home cinema sets often double as stereo hi-fi sets probably . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's what , from my experience . user interface : but is n't it marketing : i do n't know . hi-fi set is uh not often used uh as i know of in combination with television . project manager : okay . but we gon na user interface : it 's only for television , i thought . not marketing : yes . project manager : oh , it is only for televis user interface : i thought it was only for television . so so we probably do n't have to have to uh have the functions for d_v_d_ player or v_c_r_ . marketing : yes , it is only for television , but uh project manager : so wha what what wha what uh what document </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about features to make the remote control trendy ? </s> project manager : okay . well , other ideas ? how can we make it trendy or something ? do uh by just sh shape and the look of it ? industrial designer : uh , to go with to go with fashion and project manager : maybe a can opener underneath it ? user interface : for the bear . uh industrial designer : marketing : project manager : i do n't know . or someth something special , like uh m_p_ three player inside of it , or uh user interface : i i uh , no i think it project manager : oh , well then the production costs are gon na be too high probably . user interface : uh , i th i think yo we have to keep it simple , to get a whole market . marketing : yeah , way too high . yep . project manager : okay . maybe with different type of fronts or uh user interface : it 's international , so we have to use a standard . project manager : well , m has to be something spectacular or uh one which makes it </s>
<s> what did user interface recommend to do when discussing features to make the remote control trendy and why ? </s> project manager : okay . well , other ideas ? how can we make it trendy or something ? do uh by just sh shape and the look of it ? industrial designer : uh , to go with to go with fashion and project manager : maybe a can opener underneath it ? user interface : for the bear . uh industrial designer : marketing : project manager : i do n't know . or someth something special , like uh m_p_ three player inside of it , or uh user interface : i i uh , no i think it project manager : oh , well then the production costs are gon na be too high probably . user interface : uh , i th i think yo we have to keep it simple , to get a whole market . marketing : yeah , way too high . yep . project manager : okay . maybe with different type of fronts or uh user interface : it 's international , so we have to use a standard . project manager : well , m has to be something spectacular or uh one which makes it </s>
<s> summarise the discussion about grouping buttons on the remote control . </s> project manager : are they difficult to understand , or maybe they do n't interact with different kind of uh equipment very well ? marketing : i do n't th i do n't think the four of us got problems with remote controls , project manager : yeah , okay . marketing : but if you see elderly people , all these buttons , and then they buy new tv because their previous one was stolen or whatever . user interface : different . project manager : okay . marketing : and then a totally different remote control with with different functions on different places , and half of the functions a are removed , or whatever . uh , so i think what we need is is a clear uh remote control with uh grouped buttons , you know . all th all the buttons which apply to the text functions in in one uh project manager : different functions of of uh marketing : well , one area or whatever , not like the button to enter text on top of the remote control and the button to um , yeah , to minimise it to this this or whatever o o other functions totally somewhere else . project manager : okay . yeah . marketing : i think we should group them . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd a : alright . we 're on . professor b : test , um . test , test , test . guess that 's me . yeah . ok . grad d : ooh , thursday . professor b : so . there 's two sheets of paper in front of us . phd a : what are these ? phd e : yeah . so . professor b : this is the arm wrestling ? phd c : uh . yeah , we formed a coalition actually . phd e : yeah . almost . phd c : we already made it into one . professor b : oh , good . phd c : yeah . professor b : excellent . phd e : yeah . professor b : that 's the best thing . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so , tell me about it . phd e : so it 's well , it 's spectral subtraction or wiener filtering , um , depending on if we put if we square the transfer function or not . professor b : right . phd e : and then with over - estimation of the noise , depending on the , uh the snr , with smoothing along time , um , smoothing along frequency . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : it 's very simple , smoothing things . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and , um , the best result is when we apply this procedure on fft bins , uh , with a wiener filter . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and there is no noise addition after after that . so it 's good because it 's difficult when we have to add noise to to to find the right level . phd a : are you looking at one in in particular of these two ? phd e : yeah . so the sh it 's the sheet that gives fifty - f three point sixty - six . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : um , the second sheet is abo uh , about the same . it 's the same , um , idea but it 's working on mel bands , and it 's a spectral subtraction instead of wiener filter , and there is also a noise addition after , uh , cleaning up the mel bins . mmm . well , the results are similar . professor b : yeah . i mean , it 's { comment } it 's actually , uh , very similar . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , if you look at databases , uh , the , uh , one that has the smallest smaller overall number is actually better on the finnish and spanish , uh , but it is , uh , worse on the , uh , aurora phd e : it 's worse on professor b : i mean on the , uh , ti - ti - digits , phd e : on the multi - condition in ti - digits . yeah . professor b : uh , uh . um . so , it probably does n't matter that much either way . but , um , when you say u uh , unified do you mean , uh , it 's one piece of software now , or ? phd e : so now we are , yeah , setting up the software . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : um , it should be ready , uh , very soon . um , and we phd a : so what 's what 's happened ? i think i 've missed something . professor b : ok . so a week ago maybe you were n't around when when when hynek and guenther and i ? phd c : hynek was here . phd a : yeah . i did n't . professor b : oh , ok . so yeah , let 's summarize . um and then if i summarize somebody can tell me if i 'm wrong , which will also be possibly helpful . what did i just press here ? i hope this is still working . phd e : p - p - p professor b : we , uh we looked at , uh anyway we after coming back from qualcomm we had , you know , very strong feedback and , uh , i think it was hynek and guenter 's and my opinion also that , um , you know , we sort of spread out to look at a number of different ways of doing noise suppression . but given the limited time , uh , it was sort of time to choose one . phd a : mm - hmm . mmm . professor b : uh , and so , uh , th the vector taylor series had n't really worked out that much . uh , the subspace stuff , uh , had not been worked with so much . um , so it sort of came down to spectral subtraction versus wiener filtering . uh , we had a long discussion about how they were the same and how they were d uh , completely different . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh , i mean , fundamentally they 're the same sort of thing but the math is a little different so that there 's a a there 's an exponent difference in the index you know , what 's the ideal filtering , and depending on how you construct the problem . phd a : uh - huh . professor b : and , uh , i guess it 's sort you know , after after that meeting it sort of made more sense to me because um , if you 're dealing with power spectra then how are you gon na choose your error ? and typically you 'll do choose something like a variance . and so that means it 'll be something like the square of the power spectra . whereas when you 're when you 're doing the the , uh , um , looking at it the other way , you 're gon na be dealing with signals phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and you 're gon na end up looking at power uh , noise power that you 're trying to reduce . and so , eh so there should be a difference of you know , conceptually of of , uh , a factor of two in the exponent . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but there 're so many different little factors that you adjust in terms of of , uh , uh , over - subtraction and and and and and so forth , um , that arguably , you 're c and and and the choice of do you do you operate on the mel bands or do you operate on the fft beforehand . there 're so many other choices to make that are are almost well , if not independent , certainly in addition to the choice of whether you , uh , do spectral subtraction or wiener filtering , that , um , @ @ again we sort of felt the gang should just sort of figure out which it is they wan na do and then let 's pick it , go forward with it . so that 's that was that was last week . and and , uh , we said , uh , take a week , go arm wrestle , you know , figure it out . i mean , and th the joke there was that each of them had specialized in one of them . phd a : oh , ok . professor b : and and so they so instead they went to yosemite and bonded , and and they came out with a single single piece of software . so it 's another another victory for international collaboration . so . phd a : so so you guys have combined or you 're going to be combining the software ? phd c : well , the piece of software has , like , plenty of options , phd e : oh boy . phd c : like you can parse command - line arguments . so depending on that , it it becomes either spectral subtraction or wiener filtering . phd a : oh , ok . phd c : so , ye phd a : they 're close enough . professor b : well , that 's fine , but the thing is the important thing is that there is a piece of software that you that we all will be using now . phd c : yeah . yeah . there 's just one piece of software . phd e : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd e : i need to allow it to do everything and even more more than this . phd c : right . phd e : well , if we want to , like , optimize different parameters of phd c : parameters . yeah . professor b : sure . phd e : yeah , we can do it later . but , still so , there will be a piece of software with , uh , will give this system , the fifty - three point sixty - six , by default and professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : how how is how good is that ? phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : i i i do n't have a sense of phd e : it 's just one percent off of the best proposal . phd c : best system . phd e : it 's between i we are second actually if we take this system . professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . phd e : right ? phd a : compared to the last evaluation numbers ? yeah . professor b : but , uh w which we sort of were before phd c : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . yeah . professor b : but we were considerably far behind . and the thing is , this does n't have neural net in yet for instance . you know ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so it so , um , it 's it it 's not using our full bal bag of tricks , if you will . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and , uh , and it it is , uh , very close in performance to the best thing that was there before . uh , but , you know , looking at it another way , maybe more importantly , uh , we did n't have any explicit noise , uh , handling stationary dealing with e e we did n't explicitly have anything to deal with stationary noise . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and now we do . phd a : so will the neural net operate on the output from either the wiener filtering or the spectral subtraction ? or will it operate on the original ? professor b : well , so so so argu arguably , i mean , what we should do i mean , i gather you have it sounds like you have a few more days of of nailing things down with the software and so on . but and then but , um , arguably what we should do is , even though the software can do many things , we should for now pick a set of things , th these things i would guess , and not change that . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and then focus on everything that 's left . and i think , you know , that our goal should be by next week , when hynek comes back , uh , to uh , really just to have a firm path , uh , for the you know , for the time he 's gone , of of , uh , what things will be attacked . but i would i would i would thought think that what we would wan na do is not futz with this stuff for a while because what 'll happen is we 'll change many other things in the system , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and then we 'll probably wan na come back to this and possibly make some other choices . but , um . phd a : but just conceptually , where does the neural net go ? do do you wan na h run it on the output of the spectrally subtracted ? professor b : well , depending on its size well , one question is , is it on the , um , server side or is it on the terminal side ? uh , if it 's on the server side , it you probably do n't have to worry too much about size . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : so that 's kind of an argument for that . we do still , however , have to consider its latency . so the issue is is , um , for instance , could we have a neural net that only looked at the past ? phd a : right . professor b : um , what we 've done in uh in the past is to use the neural net , uh , to transform , um , all of the features that we use . so this is done early on . this is essentially , um , um i guess it 's it 's more or less like a spee a speech enhancement technique here phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : right ? where we 're just kind of creating new if not new speech at least new new fft 's that that have you know , which could be turned into speech uh , that that have some of the noise removed . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : um , after that we still do a mess of other things to to produce a bunch of features . phd a : right . professor b : and then those features are not now currently transformed by the neural net . and then the the way that we had it in our proposal - two before , we had the neural net transformed features and we had the untransformed features , which i guess you you actually did linearly transform with the klt , phd e : yeah . yeah . right . professor b : but but but uh , to orthogonalize them but but they were not , uh , processed through a neural net . and stephane 's idea with that , as i recall , was that you 'd have one part of the feature vector that was very discriminant and another part that was n't , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : uh , which would smooth things a bit for those occasions when , uh , the testing set was quite different than what you 'd trained your discriminant features for . so , um , all of that is is , uh still seems like a good idea . the thing is now we know some other constraints . we ca n't have unlimited amounts of latency . uh , y you know , that 's still being debated by the by people in europe but , uh , no matter how they end up there , it 's not going to be unlimited amounts , phd a : yeah . professor b : so we have to be a little conscious of that . um . so there 's the neural net issue . there 's the vad issue . and , uh , there 's the second stream thing . and i think those that we last time we agreed that those are the three things that have to get , uh , focused on . phd a : what was the issue with the vad ? professor b : well , better { comment } ones are good . phd a : and so the w the default , uh , boundaries that they provide are they 're ok , but they 're not all that great ? professor b : i guess they still allow two hundred milliseconds on either side or some ? is that what the deal is ? phd e : mm - hmm . uh , so th um , they keep two hundred milliseconds at the beginning and end of speech . and they keep all the phd a : outside the beginnings and end . phd e : yeah . phd a : uh - huh . phd e : and all the speech pauses , which is sometimes on the speechdat - car you have pauses that are more than one or two seconds . more than one second for sure . um . yeah . and , yeah , it seems to us that this way of just dropping the beginning and end is not we cou we can do better , i think , phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : because , um , with this way of dropping the frames they improve over the baseline by fourteen percent and sunil already showed that with our current vad we can improve by more than twenty percent . phd a : on top of the vad that they provide ? phd e : just using either their vad or our current vad . phd c : our way . phd a : oh , ok . phd e : so , our current vad is is more than twenty percent , while their is fourteen . phd a : theirs is fourteen ? i see . phd e : yeah . so . yeah . and another thing that we did also is that we have all this training data for let 's say , for speechdat - car . we have channel zero which is clean , channel one which is far - field microphone . and if we just take only the , um , vad probabilities computed on the clean signal and apply them on the far - field , uh , test utterances , then results are much better . phd a : mm - hmm . phd e : in some cases it divides the error rate by two . so it means that there are stim { comment } still phd a : how how much latency does the , uh does our vad add ? phd e : if if we can have a good vad , well , it would be great . phd a : is it significant , phd e : uh , right now it 's , um , a neural net with nine frames . phd a : or ? phd e : so it 's forty milliseconds plus , um , the rank ordering , which , uh , should be phd c : like another ten frames . phd e : ten yeah . grad d : rank . oh . phd e : so , right now it 's one hundred and forty milliseconds . professor b : with the rank ordering ? i 'm sorry . phd c : the the the smoothing the m the the filtering of the probabilities . phd e : the the , um phd c : on the r . phd e : yeah . it 's not a median filtering . it 's just we do n't take the median value . we take something um , so we have eleven , um , frames . professor b : oh , this is for the vad . phd c : yeah . phd e : and for the vad , yeah professor b : oh , ok . phd c : yeah . phd e : and we take th the third . phd c : yeah . professor b : yeah . um . so { comment } yeah , i was just noticing on this that it makes reference to delay . so what 's the ? if you ignore um , the vad is sort of in in parallel , is n't i is n't it , with with the ? i mean , it is n't additive with the the , uh , lda and the wiener filtering , and so forth . phd c : the lda ? professor b : right ? phd c : yeah . so so what happened right now , we removed the delay of the lda . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . phd c : so we i mean , if so if we if so which is like if we reduce the delay of va so , the f the final delay 's now ba is f determined by the delay of the vad , because the lda does n't have any delay . so if we re if we reduce the delay of the vad , i mean , it 's like effectively reducing the delay . phd a : how how much , uh , delay was there on the lda ? phd c : so the lda and the vad both had a hundred millisecond delay . so and they were in parallel , so which means you pick either one of them the the biggest , whatever . phd a : i see . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : so , right now the lda delays are more . professor b : and there phd a : oh , ok . professor b : and there did n't seem to be any , uh , penalty for that ? there did n't seem to be any penalty for making it causal ? phd c : pardon ? oh , no . it actually made it , like , point one percent better or something , actually . professor b : ok . well , may as well , then . phd c : or something like that professor b : and he says wiener filter is is forty milliseconds delay . phd c : and professor b : so is it ? phd c : yeah . so that 's the one which stephane was discussing , like professor b : the smoothing ? phd c : yeah . the you smooth it and then delay the decision by so . professor b : right . ok . so that 's that 's really not not bad . so we may in fact we 'll see what they decide . we may in fact have , um , the the , uh , latency time available for to have a neural net . i mean , sounds like we probably will . so . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : that 'd be good . cuz i cuz it certainly always helped us before . so . phd a : what amount of latency are you thinking about when you say that ? professor b : uh . well , they 're you know , they 're disputing it . you know , they 're saying , uh one group is saying a hundred and thirty milliseconds and another group is saying two hundred and fifty milliseconds . two hundred and fifty is what it was before actually . so , uh , some people are lobbying lobbying { comment } to make it shorter . um . and , um . phd a : were you thinking of the two - fifty or the one - thirty when you said we should have enough for the neural net ? professor b : well , it just it when we find that out it might change exactly how we do it , is all . phd a : oh , ok . professor b : i mean , how much effort do we put into making it causal ? i mean , i think the neural net will probably do better if it looks at a little bit of the future . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but , um , it will probably work to some extent to look only at the past . and we ha you know , limited machine and human time , and effort . and , you know , how how much time should we put into into that ? so it 'd be helpful if we find out from the the standards folks whether , you know , they 're gon na restrict that or not . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : um . but i think , you know , at this point our major concern is making the performance better and and , um , if , uh , something has to take a little longer in latency in order to do it that 's you know , a secondary issue . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : but if we get told otherwise then , you know , we may have to c clamp down a bit more . phd c : so , the one one one difference is that was there is like we tried computing the delta and then doing the frame - dropping . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : the earlier system was do the frame - dropping and then compute the delta on the professor b : uh - huh . phd c : so this phd a : which could be a kind of a funny delta . right ? phd c : yeah . professor b : oh , oh . so that 's fixed in this . yeah , we talked about that . phd c : yeah . so we have no delta . and then phd e : yeah . uh - huh . professor b : good . phd c : so the frame - dropping is the last thing that we do . so , yeah , what we do is we compute the silence probability , convert it to that binary flag , professor b : uh - huh . phd c : and then in the end you c up upsample it to match the final features number of phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : did that help then ? phd c : it seems to be helping on the well - matched condition . so that 's why this improvement i got from the last result . so . and it actually r reduced a little bit on the high mismatch , so in the final weightage it 's b b better because the well - matched is still weighted more than professor b : so , @ @ i mean , you were doing a lot of changes . did you happen to notice how much , uh , the change was due to just this frame - dropping problem ? what about this ? phd c : uh , y you had something on it . right ? phd e : just the frame - dropping problem . yeah . but it 's it 's difficult . sometime we we change two two things together and but it 's around maybe it 's less than one percent . professor b : uh - huh . phd c : yeah . phd e : it professor b : well . but like we 're saying , if there 's four or five things like that then pretty sho soon you 're talking real improvement . phd e : yeah . yeah . and it yeah . and then we have to be careful with that also with the neural net professor b : yeah . phd e : because in { comment } the proposal the neural net was also , uh , working on after frame - dropping . professor b : mm - hmm . oh , that 's a real good point . phd e : so . well , we 'll have to be to do the same kind of correction . professor b : it might be hard if it 's at the server side . right ? phd e : mmm . well , we can do the frame - dropping on the server side or we can just be careful at the terminal side to send a couple of more frames before and after , and so . i think it 's ok . phd a : you have , um so when you uh , maybe i do n't quite understand how this works , but , um , could n't you just send all of the frames , but mark the ones that are supposed to be dropped ? cuz you have a bunch more bandwidth . right ? professor b : well , you could . yeah . i mean , it it always seemed to us that it would be kind of nice to in addition to , uh , reducing insertions , actually use up less bandwidth . phd a : yeah . yeah . professor b : but nobody seems to have cared about that in this evaluation . phd a : and that way the net could use if the net 's on the server side then it could use all of the frames . phd c : yes , it could be . it 's , like , you mean you just transferred everything and then finally drop the frames after the neural net . phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : right ? yeah . that 's that 's one thing which phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : but you could even mark them , before they get to the server . phd c : yeah . right now we are uh , ri right now what wha what we did is , like , we just mark we just have this additional bit which goes around the features , saying it 's currently a it 's a speech or a nonspeech . phd a : oh , ok . phd c : so there is no frame - dropping till the final features , like , including the deltas are computed . phd a : i see . phd c : and after the deltas are computed , you just pick up the ones that are marked silence and then drop them . phd a : mm - hmm . i see . i see . professor b : so it would be more or less the same thing with the neural net , i guess , actually . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : so . yeah , that 's what that 's what that 's what , uh , this is doing right now . phd a : i see . ok . professor b : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : um . ok . so , uh , what 's , uh ? that 's that 's a good set of work that that , uh phd c : just one more thing . like , should we do something f more for the noise estimation , because we still ? professor b : yeah . i was wondering about that . that was i i had written that down there . phd c : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : um phd e : so , we , uh actually i did the first experiment . this is with just fifteen frames . um . we take the first fifteen frame of each utterance to it , professor b : yeah . phd e : and average their power spectra . um . i tried just plugging the , um , uh , guenter noise estimation on this system , and it uh , it got worse . um , but of course i did n't play with it . professor b : uh - huh . phd e : but mm - hmm . uh , i did n't do much more for noise estimation . i just tried this , professor b : hmm . yeah . well , it 's not surprising it 'd be worse the first time . phd e : and professor b : but , um , phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : it does seem like , you know , i i i i some compromise between always depending on the first fifteen frames and a a always depending on a a pause is is is a good idea . uh , maybe you have to weight the estimate from the first - teen fifteen frames more heavily than than was done in your first attempt . but phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : but phd e : yeah , i guess . professor b : yeah . um . no , i mean um , do you have any way of assessing how well or how poorly the noise estimation is currently doing ? phd e : mmm . no , we do n't . professor b : yeah . phd e : we do n't have nothing that phd c : is there was there any experiment with ? well , i i did the only experiment where i tried was i used the channel zero vad for the noise estimation and frame - dropping . so i do n't have a i do n't have a split , like which one helped more . phd e : yeah . phd c : so . it it was the best result i could get . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : so , that 's the professor b : so that 's something you could do with , um , this final system . right ? just do this everything that is in this final system except , uh , use the channel zero . phd c : mm - hmm . for the noise estimation . professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . we can try something . professor b : and then see how much better it gets . phd c : mm - hmm . sure . professor b : if it 's , you know , essentially not better , then it 's probably not worth phd e : yeah . professor b : any more . phd c : yeah . but the guenter 's argument is slightly different . it 's , like , ev even even if i use a channel zero vad , i 'm just averaging the the s power spectrum . but the guenter 's argument is , like , if it is a non - stationary segment , then he does n't update the noise spectrum . so he 's , like he tries to capture only the stationary part in it . so the averaging is , like , different from updating the noise spectrum only during stationary segments . so , th the guenter was arguing that , i mean , even if you have a very good vad , averaging it , like , over the whole thing is not a good idea . professor b : i see . phd c : because you 're averaging the stationary and the non - stationary , and finally you end up getting something which is not really the s because , you anyway , you ca n't remove the stationary part fr i mean , non - stationary part from the signal . professor b : not using these methods anyway . yeah . phd c : so yeah . so you just update only doing or update only the stationary components . yeah . so , that 's so that 's still a slight difference from what guenter is trying professor b : well , yeah . and and also there 's just the fact that , um , eh , uh , although we 're trying to do very well on this evaluation , um , we actually would like to have something that worked well in general . and , um , relying on having fifteen frames at the front or something is is pretty phd c : yeah , yeah . professor b : i mean , you might , you might not . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so , um . um , it 'd certainly be more robust to different kinds of input if you had at least some updates . um . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : but , um . well , i do n't know . what what do you , uh what do you guys see as as being what you would be doing in the next week , given wha what 's happened ? phd c : cure the vad ? phd e : yeah . phd a : what was that ? phd c : and phd e : so , should we keep the same ? i think we might try to keep the same idea of having a neural network , but training it on more data and adding better features , i think , but because the current network is just plp features . well , it 's trained on noisy plp phd c : just the cepstra . yeah . phd e : plp features computed on noisy speech . but there is no nothing particularly robust in these features . phd a : so , i i uh phd e : there 's no rasta , no phd a : so , uh , i i do n't remember what you said the answer to my , uh , question earlier . will you will you train the net on after you 've done the spectral subtraction or the wiener filtering ? professor b : this is a different net . phd c : so we have a vad which is like neur that 's a neural net . phd e : oh , yeah . hmm . phd a : oh , you 're talking about the vad net . ok . phd c : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : i see . phd c : so that that vad was trained on the noisy features . phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : so , right now we have , like , uh we have the cleaned - up features , so we can have a better vad by training the net on the cleaned - up speech . phd a : mm - hmm . i see . i see . phd c : yeah , but we need a vad for uh noise estimation also . so it 's , like , where do we want to put the vad ? uh , it 's like phd a : can you use the same net to do both , or ? phd c : for phd a : can you use the same net that you that i was talking about to do the vad ? phd c : mm - hmm . uh , it actually comes at v at the very end . phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : so the net the final net i mean , which is the feature net so that actually comes after a chain of , like , lda plus everything . so it 's , like , it takes a long time to get a decision out of it . and and you can actually do it for final frame - dropping , but not for the va - f noise estimation . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : you see , the idea is that the , um , initial decision to that that you 're in silence or speech happens pretty quickly . phd a : oh , ok . cuz that 's used by some of these other ? professor b : and that yeah . and that 's sort of fed forward , and and you say `` well , flush everything , it 's not speech anymore `` . phd a : oh , ok . i see . phd c : yeah . phd a : i thought that was only used for doing frame - dropping later on . professor b : um , it is used , uh yeah , it 's only used f well , it 's used for frame - dropping . um , it 's used for end of utterance because , you know , there 's if you have more than five hundred milliseconds of of of nonspeech then you figure it 's end of utterance or something like that . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : so , um . phd e : and it seems important for , like , the on - line normalization . um . we do n't want to update the mean and variance during silen long silence portions . um . so it it has to be done before phd a : oh . i see . phd e : this mean and variance normalization . um . professor b : um . yeah . so probably the vad and and maybe testing out the noise estimation a little bit . i mean , keeping the same method but but , uh , seeing if you cou but , um noise estimation could be improved . those are sort of related issues . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : it probably makes sense to move from there . and then , uh , later on in the month i think we wan na start including the neural net at the end . um . ok . anything else ? phd e : the half dome was great . professor b : good . yeah . you did n't did n't fall . that 's good . phd c : well , yeah . professor b : our e our effort would have been devastated if you guys had { comment } run into problems . phd a : so , hynek is coming back next week , you said ? professor b : yeah , that 's the plan . i guess the week after he 'll be , uh , going back to europe , and so we wan na phd a : is he in europe right now or is he up at ? professor b : no , no . he 's he 's he 's dropped into the us . yeah . yeah . phd a : oh . hmm . professor b : so . uh . so , uh . uh , the idea was that , uh , we 'd we 'd sort out where we were going next with this with this work before he , uh , left on this next trip . good . uh , barry , you just got through your quals , so i do n't know if you have much to say . but , uh . grad d : mmm . no , just , uh , looking into some some of the things that , um , uh , john ohala and hynek , um , gave as feedback , um , as as a starting point for the project . um . in in my proposal , i i was thinking about starting from a set of , uh , phonological features , or a subset of them . um , but that might not be necessarily a good idea according to , um , john . phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : he said , uh , um , these these phonological features are are sort of figments of imagination also . phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : um . s professor b : in conversational speech in particular . i think you can you can put them in pretty reliably in synthetic speech . but we do n't have too much trouble recognizing synthetic speech since we create it in the first place . so , it 's grad d : right . yeah . so , um , a better way would be something more more data - driven , phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : just looking at the data and seeing what 's similar and what 's not similar . phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : so , i 'm i 'm , um , taking a look at some of , um , sangita 's work on on traps . she did something where , um w where the traps learn she clustered the the temporal patterns of , um , certain certain phonemes in in m averaged over many , many contexts . and , uh , some things tended to cluster . phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : right ? you know , like stop stop consonants clustered really well . um , silence was by its own self . phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : and , uh , um , v vocalic was clustered . phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : and , um , so , those are interesting things to phd a : so you 're now you 're sort of looking to try to gather a set of these types of features ? grad d : right . phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : yeah . just to see where where i could start off from , phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : uh , you know ? a a a set of small features and continue to iterate and find , uh , a better set . phd a : mm - hmm . grad d : yeah . professor b : ok . well , short meeting . that 's ok . phd a : yeah . professor b : ok . so next week hopefully we 'll can get hynek here to to join us and , uh , uh . phd a : should we do digits ? professor b : digits , digits . ok , now . phd a : go ahead , morgan . you can start . professor b : alright . let me get my glasses on so i can see them . ok . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the state of the final model </s> professor b : this is the arm wrestling ? phd c : uh . yeah , we formed a coalition actually . phd e : yeah . almost . phd c : we already made it into one . professor b : oh , good . phd c : yeah . professor b : excellent . phd e : yeah . professor b : that 's the best thing . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so , tell me about it . phd e : so it 's well , it 's spectral subtraction or wiener filtering , um , depending on if we put if we square the transfer function or not . professor b : right . phd e : and then with over - estimation of the noise , depending on the , uh the snr , with smoothing along time , um , smoothing along frequency . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : it 's very simple , smoothing things . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and , um , the best result is when we apply this procedure on fft bins , uh , with a wiener filter . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and there is no noise addition after after that . so it 's good because it 's difficult when we have to add noise to to to find the right level . phd a : are you looking at one in in particular of these two ? phd e : yeah . so the sh it 's the sheet that gives fifty - f three point sixty - six . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : um , the second sheet is abo uh , about the same . it 's the same , um , idea but it 's working on mel bands , and it 's a spectral subtraction instead of wiener filter , and there is also a noise addition after , uh , cleaning up the mel bins . mmm . well , the results are similar . professor b : yeah . i mean , it 's { comment } it 's actually , uh , very similar . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , if you look at databases , uh , the , uh , one that has the smallest smaller overall number is actually better on the finnish and spanish , uh , but it is , uh , worse on the , uh , aurora phd e : it 's worse on professor b : i mean on the , uh , ti - ti - digits , phd e : on the multi - condition in ti - digits . yeah . professor b : uh , uh . um . so , it probably does n't matter that much either way . but , um , when you say u uh , unified do you mean , uh , it 's one piece of software now , or ? </s>
<s> what did phd e say about the best result ? </s> phd e : and , um , the best result is when we apply this procedure on fft bins , uh , with a wiener filter . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and there is no noise addition after after that . so it 's good because it 's difficult when we have to add noise to to to find the right level . phd a : are you looking at one in in particular of these two ? phd e : yeah . so the sh it 's the sheet that gives fifty - f three point sixty - six . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : um , the second sheet is abo uh , about the same . it 's the same , um , idea but it 's working on mel bands , and it 's a spectral subtraction instead of wiener filter , and there is also a noise addition after , uh , cleaning up the mel bins . mmm . well , the results are similar . </s>
<s> what did the professor say about the final model ? </s> phd c : uh . yeah , we formed a coalition actually . phd e : yeah . almost . phd c : we already made it into one . professor b : oh , good . phd c : yeah . professor b : excellent . phd e : yeah . professor b : that 's the best thing . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so , tell me about it . phd e : so it 's well , it 's spectral subtraction or wiener filtering , um , depending on if we put if we square the transfer function or not . professor b : right . phd e : and then with over - estimation of the noise , depending on the , uh the snr , with smoothing along time , um , smoothing along frequency . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : it 's very simple , smoothing things . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and , um , the best result is when we apply this procedure on fft bins , uh , with a wiener filter . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and there is no noise addition after after that . so it 's good because it 's difficult when we have to add noise to to to find the right level . phd a : are you looking at one in in particular of these two ? phd e : yeah . so the sh it 's the sheet that gives fifty - f three point sixty - six . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : um , the second sheet is abo uh , about the same . it 's the same , um , idea but it 's working on mel bands , and it 's a spectral subtraction instead of wiener filter , and there is also a noise addition after , uh , cleaning up the mel bins . mmm . well , the results are similar . professor b : yeah . i mean , it 's { comment } it 's actually , uh , very similar . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , if you look at databases , uh , the , uh , one that has the smallest smaller overall number is actually better on the finnish and spanish , uh , but it is , uh , worse on the , uh , aurora phd e : it 's worse on professor b : i mean on the , uh , ti - ti - digits , phd e : on the multi - condition in ti - digits . yeah . professor b : uh , uh . um . so , it probably does n't matter that much either way . but , um , when you say u uh , unified do you mean , uh , it 's one piece of software now , or ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on frame dropping and noise estimation </s> phd c : so the frame - dropping is the last thing that we do . so , yeah , what we do is we compute the silence probability , convert it to that binary flag , professor b : uh - huh . phd c : and then in the end you c up upsample it to match the final features number of phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : did that help then ? phd c : it seems to be helping on the well - matched condition . so that 's why this improvement i got from the last result . so . and it actually r reduced a little bit on the high mismatch , so in the final weightage it 's b b better because the well - matched is still weighted more than professor b : so , @ @ i mean , you were doing a lot of changes . did you happen to notice how much , uh , the change was due to just this frame - dropping problem ? what about this ? phd c : uh , y you had something on it . right ? phd e : just the frame - dropping problem . yeah . but it 's it 's difficult . sometime we we change two two things together and but it 's around maybe it 's less than one percent . professor b : uh - huh . phd c : yeah . phd e : it professor b : well . but like we 're saying , if there 's four or five things like that then pretty sho soon you 're talking real improvement . phd e : yeah . yeah . and it yeah . and then we have to be careful with that also with the neural net professor b : yeah . phd e : because in { comment } the proposal the neural net was also , uh , working on after frame - dropping . professor b : mm - hmm . oh , that 's a real good point . phd e : so . well , we 'll have to be to do the same kind of correction . professor b : it might be hard if it 's at the server side . right ? phd e : mmm . well , we can do the frame - dropping on the server side or we can just be careful at the terminal side to send a couple of more frames before and after , and so . i think it 's ok . phd a : you have , um so when you uh , maybe i do n't quite understand how this works , but , um , could n't you just send all of the frames , but mark the ones that are supposed to be dropped ? cuz you have a bunch more bandwidth . right ? professor b : well , you could . yeah . i mean , it it always seemed to us that it would be kind of nice to in addition to , uh , reducing insertions , actually use up less bandwidth . phd a : yeah . yeah . professor b : but nobody seems to have cared about that in this evaluation . phd a : and that way the net could use if the net 's on the server side then it could use all of the frames . phd c : yes , it could be . it 's , like , you mean you just transferred everything and then finally drop the frames after the neural net . phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : right ? yeah . that 's that 's one thing which phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : but you could even mark them , before they get to the server . phd c : yeah . right now we are uh , ri right now what wha what we did is , like , we just mark we just have this additional bit which goes around the features , saying it 's currently a it 's a speech or a nonspeech . phd a : oh , ok . phd c : so there is no frame - dropping till the final features , like , including the deltas are computed . phd a : i see . phd c : and after the deltas are computed , you just pick up the ones that are marked silence and then drop them . phd a : mm - hmm . i see . i see . professor b : so it would be more or less the same thing with the neural net , i guess , actually . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : so . yeah , that 's what that 's what that 's what , uh , this is doing right now . phd a : i see . ok . professor b : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : um . ok . so , uh , what 's , uh ? that 's that 's a good set of work that that , uh phd c : just one more thing . like , should we do something f more for the noise estimation , because we still ? professor b : yeah . i was wondering about that . that was i i had written that down there . phd c : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : um phd e : so , we , uh actually i did the first experiment . this is with just fifteen frames . um . we take the first fifteen frame of each utterance to it , professor b : yeah . phd e : and average their power spectra . um . i tried just plugging the , um , uh , guenter noise estimation on this system , and it uh , it got worse . um , but of course i did n't play with it . professor b : uh - huh . phd e : but mm - hmm . uh , i did n't do much more for noise estimation . i just tried this , professor b : hmm . yeah . well , it 's not surprising it 'd be worse the first time . phd e : and professor b : but , um , phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : it does seem like , you know , i i i i some compromise between always depending on the first fifteen frames and a a always depending on a a pause is is is a good idea . uh , maybe you have to weight the estimate from the first - teen fifteen frames more heavily than than was done in your first attempt . but phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : but phd e : yeah , i guess . professor b : yeah . um . no , i mean um , do you have any way of assessing how well or how poorly the noise estimation is currently doing ? phd e : mmm . no , we do n't . professor b : yeah . phd e : we do n't have nothing that phd c : is there was there any experiment with ? well , i i did the only experiment where i tried was i used the channel zero vad for the noise estimation and frame - dropping . so i do n't have a i do n't have a split , like which one helped more . phd e : yeah . phd c : so . it it was the best result i could get . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : so , that 's the professor b : so that 's something you could do with , um , this final system . right ? just do this everything that is in this final system except , uh , use the channel zero . phd c : mm - hmm . for the noise estimation . professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . we can try something . professor b : and then see how much better it gets . phd c : mm - hmm . sure . professor b : if it 's , you know , essentially not better , then it 's probably not worth phd e : yeah . professor b : any more . phd c : yeah . but the guenter 's argument is slightly different . it 's , like , ev even even if i use a channel zero vad , i 'm just averaging the the s power spectrum . but the guenter 's argument is , like , if it is a non - stationary segment , then he does n't update the noise spectrum . so he 's , like he tries to capture only the stationary part in it . so the averaging is , like , different from updating the noise spectrum only during stationary segments . so , th the guenter was arguing that , i mean , even if you have a very good vad , averaging it , like , over the whole thing is not a good idea . professor b : i see . </s>
<s> what did phd e think about improving the model ? </s> phd e : just the frame - dropping problem . yeah . but it 's it 's difficult . sometime we we change two two things together and but it 's around maybe it 's less than one percent . professor b : uh - huh . phd c : yeah . phd e : it professor b : well . but like we 're saying , if there 's four or five things like that then pretty sho soon you 're talking real improvement . phd e : yeah . yeah . and it yeah . and then we have to be careful with that also with the neural net professor b : yeah . phd e : because in { comment } the proposal the neural net was also , uh , working on after frame - dropping . professor b : mm - hmm . oh , that 's a real good point . phd e : so . well , we 'll have to be to do the same kind of correction . professor b : it might be hard if it 's at the server side . right ? phd e : mmm . well , we can do the frame - dropping on the server side or we can just be careful at the terminal side to send a couple of more frames before and after , and so . i think it 's ok . phd a : you have , um so when you uh , maybe i do n't quite understand how this works , but , um , could n't you just send all of the frames , but mark the ones that are supposed to be dropped ? cuz you have a bunch more bandwidth . right ? professor b : well , you could . yeah . i mean , it it always seemed to us that it would be kind of nice to in addition to , uh , reducing insertions , actually use up less bandwidth . phd a : yeah . yeah . professor b : but nobody seems to have cared about that in this evaluation . phd a : and that way the net could use if the net 's on the server side then it could use all of the frames . phd c : yes , it could be . it 's , like , you mean you just transferred everything and then finally drop the frames after the neural net . phd a : mm - hmm . phd c : right ? yeah . that 's that 's one thing which phd e : mm - hmm . phd a : but you could even mark them , before they get to the server . phd c : yeah . right now we are uh , ri right now what wha what we did is , like , we just mark we just have this additional bit which goes around the features , saying it 's currently a it 's a speech or a nonspeech . phd a : oh , ok . phd c : so there is no frame - dropping till the final features , like , including the deltas are computed . phd a : i see . phd c : and after the deltas are computed , you just pick up the ones that are marked silence and then drop them . phd a : mm - hmm . i see . i see . professor b : so it would be more or less the same thing with the neural net , i guess , actually . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : so . yeah , that 's what that 's what that 's what , uh , this is doing right now . phd a : i see . ok . professor b : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : um . ok . so , uh , what 's , uh ? that 's that 's a good set of work that that , uh phd c : just one more thing . like , should we do something f more for the noise estimation , because we still ? professor b : yeah . i was wondering about that . that was i i had written that down there . phd c : yeah . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : um phd e : so , we , uh actually i did the first experiment . this is with just fifteen frames . um . we take the first fifteen frame of each utterance to it , professor b : yeah . phd e : and average their power spectra . um . i tried just plugging the , um , uh , guenter noise estimation on this system , and it uh , it got worse . um , but of course i did n't play with it . professor b : uh - huh . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about improving the model ? </s> professor b : well . but like we 're saying , if there 's four or five things like that then pretty sho soon you 're talking real improvement . phd e : yeah . yeah . and it yeah . and then we have to be careful with that also with the neural net professor b : yeah . phd e : because in { comment } the proposal the neural net was also , uh , working on after frame - dropping . professor b : mm - hmm . oh , that 's a real good point . phd e : so . well , we 'll have to be to do the same kind of correction . professor b : it might be hard if it 's at the server side . right ? phd e : mmm . well , we can do the frame - dropping on the server side or we can just be careful at the terminal side to send a couple of more frames before and after , and so . i think it 's ok . phd a : you have , um so when you uh , maybe i do n't quite understand how this works , but , um , could n't you just send all of the frames , but mark the ones that are supposed to be dropped ? cuz you have a bunch more bandwidth . right ? professor b : well , you could . yeah . i mean , it it always seemed to us that it would be kind of nice to in addition to , uh , reducing insertions , actually use up less bandwidth . phd a : yeah . yeah . professor b : but nobody seems to have cared about that in this evaluation . phd a : and that way the net could use if the net 's on the server side then it could use all of the frames . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : marketing : project manager : marketing : hmm . project manager : okay . good morning everybody . um i 'm glad you could all come . i 'm really excited to start this team . um i 'm just gon na have a little powerpoint presentation for us , for our kick-off meeting . my name is rose lindgren . i i 'll be the project manager . um our agenda today is we are gon na do a little opening and then i 'm gon na talk a little bit about the project , then we 'll move into acquaintance such as getting to know each other a little bit , including a tool training exercise . and then we 'll move into the project plan , do a little discussion and close , since we only have twenty five minutes . first of all our project aim . um we are creating a new remote control which we have three goals about , it needs to be original , trendy and user-friendly . i 'm hoping that we can all work together to achieve all three of those . um so we 're gon na divide us up into three compa three parts . first the functional design which will be uh first we 'll do individual work , come into a meeting , the conceptional design , individual work and a meeting , and then the detailed design , individual work and a meeting . so that we 'll each be doing our own ideas and then coming together and um collaborating . okay , we 're gon na get to know each other a little bit . so um , what we 're gon na do is start off with um let 's start off with amina . um alima , industrial designer : alima . project manager : sorry , alima . industrial designer : project manager : um we 're gon na do a little tool training , so we are gon na work with that whiteboard behind you . um introduce yourself , um say one thing about yourself and then draw your favourite animal and tell us about it . industrial designer : okay . um i do n't know which one of these i have to bring with me . project manager : probably both . industrial designer : right , so , i 'm supposed to draw my favourite animal . i have no drawing skills whatsoever . but uh let 's see , introduce myself . my name is alima bucciantini . um i 'm from the state of maine in the us . i 'm doing nationalism studies , blah , blah , blah , and i have no artistic talents . project manager : how do you spell your name ? industrial designer : a_ l_ i_ m_ a_ . project manager : thanks . industrial designer : oh , and i guess i 'm the industrial designer on this project . so let 's see if i can get marketing : industrial designer : um here . i will draw a little turtle for you all . not necessarily 'cause it 's my absolute favourite animal , but just that i think they 're drawable . and you have the pretty little shell going on . some little eyes . happy . there you go . that 's a turtle . project manager : so what are your favourite characteristics ? industrial designer : um . i i like the whole having a shell thing . it 's quite cool carry your home around where you go , um quite decorative little animals , they can swim , they can , they 're very adaptable , they carry everything they need with them , um and they 're easy to draw . project manager : excellent . user interface : project manager : shall we just go around the table ? user interface : uh okay . well , my name is iain uh and i 'm the user interface designer for the project . um . and i 'll try and draw my favourite animal . industrial designer : no , user interface : i 'll i should leave that one on there industrial designer : you can erase the turtle , user interface : should n't i before i callously rub it off . industrial designer : it 's alright . project manager : might be nice to have them all up there at same time . user interface : um i 'm not gon na draw it quite to scale um . industrial designer : user interface : is that at least identifiable ? industrial designer : snake . marketing : well . industrial designer : well , user interface : it 's a whale , yes . industrial designer : snake ? it 's w user interface : thanks . marketing : oh my god , it 's better than what i 'm gon na be able to do . user interface : um and , yeah , the reason i like whales is 'cause uh they 're well , first of all they 're quite intelligent um and also they 're they 're kind of mysterious , like we do n't really know much about them or or understand how they work , how they form groups . and i just find them interesting animals . marketing : take my contraptions with me . alright , i 'm jessy . i 'm from around d_c_ ish sort of in the u_s_ . and we 're gon na keep the deep sea sort of theme going on , animal . do n't really know how to draw this . just where can i mm . mm . maybe if i do the water , industrial designer : marketing : but how ? sort of give an idea . i have no idea how one would explain this . mm maybe with some whiskers . briefly , it 's supposed to be a seal . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : you can imagine it in the water . i like them , because they are like playful and silly sort of have a good time . not gon na try and pretend like i can get any better than that . project manager : mm 'kay . mm 'kay ? i 'm rose and i 'm project manager , from california . um . hmm . s industrial designer : oh , marketing : it 's definitely significantly harder once you are doing it . industrial designer : a cat . project manager : um it 's actually a coyote . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : let 's see . let 's see , industrial designer : right . marketing : that 's impressive . project manager : let 's give it a little bit of a snout , i do n't know , some teeth . industrial designer : that 's project manager : yeah . industrial designer : that 's pretty impressive . user interface : cool . project manager : oh dear . yes . industrial designer : project manager : i live um i live right across the street from an open space in california . we have coyotes howl all the time . so i really enjoy their their singing , you they 're really beautiful animals . mm . okay um , moving on to slightly more serious stuff . we 're gon na talk about project finances . um we have a couple we 'd like to sell it for about twenty five euro with the profit aim of um fifteen million euro um from our sales and because this is such this is for television it 's a we have a market range of internet , like it 's an international market range , we do n't have to worry about specifics . um in order to make a profit of this magnitude , we need to um be able to produce each one at a maximum of twelve fifty euro . so we 're selling it for twice what we 'd like to produce it for . okay um , just to generate a little bit of discussion about the project um , i could i 'd like to hear about your experiences using ro remote controls , um your first ideas about um creating a new r remote control , what would be the best um like you what are the features that you really like what are the features that you do n't like , etcetera , so marketing : um i hate when there 's like four different buttons and you have to press to actually turn on the tv like you have to do one for the power of the tv and then like another one to get the actual screen on and something else to get it all going , i do n't know . now they keep combining all different remotes together , and i do n't know if i necessarily like that 'cause i feel like you end up with multimedia overload . user interface : marketing : i just wan na watch the tv um . always gets lost . some sort of like device to help you find it . user interface : i 've used , i 've used remote controls , for things like tv and the c_d_ player and video recorder and i i guess they 're they 're pretty neat neat little tools uh . you do n't have to get up and walk across the room to change a channel . so especially if you 're someone really lazy like me they they 're pretty nice . um . i find them they can be a bit annoying , especially , like you know if i 'm watching tv i have have to have three separate remote controls of in front of me , you know , one for the tv , one for the digital box , one for m the video recorder as well . um . and also they tend to they tend to be a bit confusing , they 've got too many buttons on them uh too too sort of too sort of complicated when all i really wan na do is switch on and off , change the channel , change the volume . industrial designer : yeah um . i agree with having too many remotes around . my dad has a whole drawer at home of remotes for various things , and i do n't know how to work half of them um . what 's important for me , i guess , is that it 's easy to use and that there 's not too many buttons , they are not too small , you know you know you need to n to know what you 're doing . and one thing i particularly like is if you are not um sort of moving it around to get it to work with the infra-red . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um , i think there is a way around that , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but i know in my residence right now the the television you sort of have to walk all around the room to get it to turn on , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i it 's just simpler just to just turn around the tv itself , and i think that 's if we 're gon na make a remote control , it should actually work for what it 's doing . so marketing : what about like batteries and things like that , like are there some remotes that don do n't require like batteries or do all remotes require batteries ? project manager : um i would imagine all of them , industrial designer : i know . project manager : but we could but it 's possible we could use like a lithium battery um that would last a lot longer than like double a_s . industrial designer : yeah , something that does n't marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um like tho those are the batteries that are used in a lot of um m_p_ three players now and that kind of thing . um . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um . okay , it seems we have a little bit of a conflict over um to uh combining all the remotes cont together versus having f five different remotes . so um like you said you do n't like having all the buttons on one on one remote , and yet you do n't wan na have five remotes . so how do we work with that ? industrial designer : yeah . could we get something that just has no does n't have all the buttons that you need to program the video recorder or program s other things that i 'm not very coherent about , but that just has your major buttons for that work for everything , you know volume control , on , off , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : channel changing . marketing : and maybe that spatially divides it , so it 's like if you 're looki if you 're trying to get the tv on that 's , you know , like the top thing on the remote , i dunno if d be vertical or horizontal in terms of how we 're gon na make it , but if it 's like all the tv stuff was here , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then all the v_c_r_ stuff was here , all the whatever else we have programmed into it it 's all just in its separate place and not like all the on buttons together , industrial designer : n that way yeah . marketing : 'cause then you like , i do n't even know what i 'm turning on . industrial designer : yeah , and if um if you 'd save the more complicated functions maybe for separate remotes that you would n't need to use every day . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , so maybe have like one remote that has the main functions on , off , channel changing , volume , and another rote remote with all the special things . because that is one thing that um remotes tend to have buttons that the tvs no longer have as well . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so like you have to have them somewhere , user interface : yeah . project manager : 'cause you 're gon na m need those special functions occasionally . um but not necessarily on the m the normal remote . industrial designer : right . user interface : can i ask , are we designing a remote control for a television only project manager : good question . user interface : um , and if if this device is just to be used for the television would we even technically be possible to include video recorder functions on it ? project manager : i do n't know that yet . user interface : um or should we just stick to just stick to having television television related buttons on it ? project manager : it 's a good question . um . i 'll look into that . marketing : mm-hmm hmm . project manager : if i can . user interface : marketing : i think it 's just tv , i mean , if it if we 're taking it just new product a new television remote control that 's not like does n't say . industrial designer : mm yeah . marketing : you know , things might be more advanced than that . user interface : so we should maybe we should assume that i t it 's just a television that we 're wanting to control . industrial designer : user interface : well , i mean i suppose it would be nice to have playing and record and stop buttons on it for the video recorder as well i i do n't know if that works technologically or not . industrial designer : yes . i guess we have to define what what we 're aiming for . if it 's just a television then that it 's a bit simpler , 'cause there 's less buttons that would even need to be on it . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's an idea with the buttons being really . industrial designer : large . if you have older people or people like me that are n't very co-ordinated hand-eye , it 's really quite important that you are not pressing a small like teeny mobiles phone size buttons , if we can help it . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . 'kay sounds like we 've had a good little discussion for our first ideas . mind if we move on ? ps industrial designer : project manager : mm okay . user interface : 'kay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um now our next meeting starts in thirty minutes . i believe we 've actually been only working on this this one for about twenty , so we can continue discussing more new ideas if you 'd like um , but this is just a breakdown of what we 'll be doing individually . um the industrial design , alima will be doing um the working design . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um the user interface designer , that 's for . technical functions , i guess like keeping in mind the buttons thing , the size of the buttons . um user requirements um , so you 'll be hearing about different trends , uh about different things that people need , um i guess kind of the same uh discussion that we 've been having , we 'll get from the actual consum s consumers . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm 'kay um . and you will get specific instructions sent by your personal coach . i realised in this past one we we did n't have much , we just wanted to get a little brain-storming done . um so very exited to see all your animals and how what wonderful um artists we all are um . user interface : project manager : any questions ? industrial designer : user interface : what we 're gon na be discussing at the next meeting ? do we know that ? project manager : i have n't gotten an agenda yet , um i 'll put that together . i 'm sure as we 'll each get our own instruction user interface : right . project manager : and then um because what we gon na do is first our individual actions and then we 'll come back together . so i 'm sure we 'll all have more concrete things to contribute next time industrial designer : 'kay . i 'm sure we 'll be busy . user interface : project manager : mm 'kay um i 'll type up mi minutes and probably email those out to all of you . um just including all the things that we talked about . um . user interface : okay . can you e-mail your slides as well ? is that possible ? project manager : yes , i yes , i think i can . mm-hmm . i 'll just attach it to an email . and you 're you 're number two , industrial designer : i 'm two . project manager : three , four ? marketing : i 'm four . project manager : is that correct ? okay . industrial designer : alright . project manager : excellent . it was lovely meeting you all . just make sure you keep checking the company web site and the emails . industrial designer : 'kay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about use cases . </s> project manager : i live um i live right across the street from an open space in california . we have coyotes howl all the time . so i really enjoy their their singing , you they 're really beautiful animals . mm . okay um , moving on to slightly more serious stuff . we 're gon na talk about project finances . um we have a couple we 'd like to sell it for about twenty five euro with the profit aim of um fifteen million euro um from our sales and because this is such this is for television it 's a we have a market range of internet , like it 's an international market range , we do n't have to worry about specifics . um in order to make a profit of this magnitude , we need to um be able to produce each one at a maximum of twelve fifty euro . so we 're selling it for twice what we 'd like to produce it for . okay um , just to generate a little bit of discussion about the project um , i could i 'd like to hear about your experiences using ro remote controls , um your first ideas about um creating a new r remote control , what would be the best um like you what are the features that you really like what are the features that you do n't like , etcetera , so marketing : um i hate when there 's like four different buttons and you have to press to actually turn on the tv like you have to do one for the power of the tv and then like another one to get the actual screen on and something else to get it all going , i do n't know . now they keep combining all different remotes together , and i do n't know if i necessarily like that 'cause i feel like you end up with multimedia overload . user interface : marketing : i just wan na watch the tv um . always gets lost . some sort of like device to help you find it . user interface : i 've used , i 've used remote controls , for things like tv and the c_d_ player and video recorder and i i guess they 're they 're pretty neat neat little tools uh . you do n't have to get up and walk across the room to change a channel . so especially if you 're someone really lazy like me they they 're pretty nice . um . i find them they can be a bit annoying , especially , like you know if i 'm watching tv i have have to have three separate remote controls of in front of me , you know , one for the tv , one for the digital box , one for m the video recorder as well . um . and also they tend to they tend to be a bit confusing , they 've got too many buttons on them uh too too sort of too sort of complicated when all i really wan na do is switch on and off , change the channel , change the volume . industrial designer : yeah um . i agree with having too many remotes around . my dad has a whole drawer at home of remotes for various things , and i do n't know how to work half of them um . what 's important for me , i guess , is that it 's easy to use and that there 's not too many buttons , they are not too small , you know you know you need to n to know what you 're doing . and one thing i particularly like is if you are not um sort of moving it around to get it to work with the infra-red . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer propose in the discussion about remote control style ? </s> industrial designer : yeah um . i agree with having too many remotes around . my dad has a whole drawer at home of remotes for various things , and i do n't know how to work half of them um . what 's important for me , i guess , is that it 's easy to use and that there 's not too many buttons , they are not too small , you know you know you need to n to know what you 're doing . and one thing i particularly like is if you are not um sort of moving it around to get it to work with the infra-red . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um , i think there is a way around that , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but i know in my residence right now the the television you sort of have to walk all around the room to get it to turn on , project manager : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the decision of the discussion about the conflict over combining all the remotes content together versus having five different remotes . </s> project manager : um . okay , it seems we have a little bit of a conflict over um to uh combining all the remotes cont together versus having f five different remotes . so um like you said you do n't like having all the buttons on one on one remote , and yet you do n't wan na have five remotes . so how do we work with that ? industrial designer : yeah . could we get something that just has no does n't have all the buttons that you need to program the video recorder or program s other things that i 'm not very coherent about , but that just has your major buttons for that work for everything , you know volume control , on , off , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : channel changing . marketing : and maybe that spatially divides it , so it 's like if you 're looki if you 're trying to get the tv on that 's , you know , like the top thing on the remote , i dunno if d be vertical or horizontal in terms of how we 're gon na make it , but if it 's like all the tv stuff was here , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then all the v_c_r_ stuff was here , all the whatever else we have programmed into it it 's all just in its separate place and not like all the on buttons together , industrial designer : n that way yeah . marketing : 'cause then you like , i do n't even know what i 'm turning on . industrial designer : yeah , and if um if you 'd save the more complicated functions maybe for separate remotes that you would n't need to use every day . marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the object of the remote control ? </s> user interface : can i ask , are we designing a remote control for a television only project manager : good question . user interface : um , and if if this device is just to be used for the television would we even technically be possible to include video recorder functions on it ? project manager : i do n't know that yet . user interface : um or should we just stick to just stick to having television television related buttons on it ? project manager : it 's a good question . um . i 'll look into that . marketing : mm-hmm hmm . project manager : if i can . user interface : marketing : i think it 's just tv , i mean , if it if we 're taking it just new product a new television remote control that 's not like does n't say . industrial designer : mm yeah . marketing : you know , things might be more advanced than that . user interface : so we should maybe we should assume that i t it 's just a television that we 're wanting to control . industrial designer : user interface : well , i mean i suppose it would be nice to have playing and record and stop buttons on it for the video recorder as well i i do n't know if that works technologically or not . industrial designer : yes . i guess we have to define what what we 're aiming for . if it 's just a television then that it 's a bit simpler , 'cause there 's less buttons that would even need to be on it . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's an idea with the buttons being really . industrial designer : large . if you have older people or people like me that are n't very co-ordinated hand-eye , it 's really quite important that you are not pressing a small like teeny mobiles phone size buttons , if we can help it . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> what 's the advantage of designing a remote control for television only ? </s> user interface : can i ask , are we designing a remote control for a television only project manager : good question . user interface : um , and if if this device is just to be used for the television would we even technically be possible to include video recorder functions on it ? project manager : i do n't know that yet . user interface : um or should we just stick to just stick to having television television related buttons on it ? project manager : it 's a good question . um . i 'll look into that . marketing : mm-hmm hmm . project manager : if i can . user interface : marketing : i think it 's just tv , i mean , if it if we 're taking it just new product a new television remote control that 's not like does n't say . industrial designer : mm yeah . marketing : you know , things might be more advanced than that . user interface : so we should maybe we should assume that i t it 's just a television that we 're wanting to control . industrial designer : user interface : well , i mean i suppose it would be nice to have playing and record and stop buttons on it for the video recorder as well i i do n't know if that works technologically or not . industrial designer : yes . i guess we have to define what what we 're aiming for . if it 's just a television then that it 's a bit simpler , 'cause there 's less buttons that would even need to be on it . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's an idea with the buttons being really . industrial designer : large . if you have older people or people like me that are n't very co-ordinated hand-eye , it 's really quite important that you are not pressing a small like teeny mobiles phone size buttons , if we can help it . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize user interface 's opinions towards the object of remote control . </s> user interface : can i ask , are we designing a remote control for a television only project manager : good question . user interface : um , and if if this device is just to be used for the television would we even technically be possible to include video recorder functions on it ? project manager : i do n't know that yet . user interface : um or should we just stick to just stick to having television television related buttons on it ? project manager : it 's a good question . um . i 'll look into that . marketing : mm-hmm hmm . project manager : if i can . user interface : marketing : i think it 's just tv , i mean , if it if we 're taking it just new product a new television remote control that 's not like does n't say . industrial designer : mm yeah . marketing : you know , things might be more advanced than that . user interface : so we should maybe we should assume that i t it 's just a television that we 're wanting to control . industrial designer : user interface : well , i mean i suppose it would be nice to have playing and record and stop buttons on it for the video recorder as well i i do n't know if that works technologically or not . industrial designer : yes . i guess we have to define what what we 're aiming for . if it 's just a television then that it 's a bit simpler , 'cause there 's less buttons that would even need to be on it . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's an idea with the buttons being really . industrial designer : large . if you have older people or people like me that are n't very co-ordinated hand-eye , it 's really quite important that you are not pressing a small like teeny mobiles phone size buttons , if we can help it . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor b : is it starting now ? so what what from what grad a : hello ? professor b : whatever we say from now on , it can be held against us , right ? phd e : that 's right . professor b : and uh grad a : it 's your right to remain silent . professor b : yeah . so i i the the problem is that i actually do n't know how th these held meetings are held , if they are very informal and sort of just people are say what 's going on phd e : yeah . yeah , that 's usually what we do . we just sorta go around and people say what 's going on , what 's the latest uh professor b : yeah . ok . so i guess that what may be a reasonable is if i uh first make a report on what 's happening in aurora in general , at least what from my perspective . phd e : yeah . that would be great . professor b : and and uh so , i i think that carmen and stephane reported on uh amsterdam meeting , which was kind of interesting because it was for the first time we realized we are not friends really , but we are competitors . cuz until then it was sort of like everything was like wonderful and phd e : yeah . it seemed like there were still some issues , professor b : yeah . phd e : right ? that they were trying to decide ? professor b : there is a plenty of there 're plenty of issues . phd e : like the voice activity detector , professor b : well and what happened was that they realized that if two leading proposals , which was french telecom alcatel , and us both had uh voice activity detector . and i said `` well big surprise , i mean we could have told you that n n n four months ago , except we did n't because nobody else was bringing it up `` . phd e : right . professor b : obviously french telecom did n't volunteer this information either , cuz we were working on mainly on voice activity detector for past uh several months phd e : right . professor b : because that 's buying us the most uh thing . and everybody said `` well but this is not fair . we did n't know that . `` and of course uh the it 's not working on features really . and be i agreed . phd e : right . professor b : i said `` well yeah , you are absolutely right , i mean if i wish that you provided better end point at speech because uh or at least that if we could modify the recognizer , uh to account for these long silences , because otherwise uh that that th that was n't a correct thing . `` and so then ev ev everybody else says `` well we should we need to do a new eval evaluation without voice activity detector , or we have to do something about it `` . phd e : right . professor b : and in principle i uh i we agreed . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : we said uh `` yeah `` . because uh but in that case , uh we would like to change the uh the algorithm because uh if we are working on different data , we probably will use a different set of tricks . phd e : right . professor b : but unfortunately nobody ever officially can somehow acknowledge that this can be done , because french telecom was saying `` no , no , no , now everybody has access to our code , so everybody is going to copy what we did . `` yeah well our argument was everybody ha has access to our code , and everybody always had access to our code . we never uh uh denied that . we thought that people are honest , that if you copy something and if it is protected protected by patent then you negotiate , or something , phd e : yeah . right . professor b : right ? i mean , if you find our technique useful , we are very happy . phd e : right . professor b : but and french telecom was saying `` no , no , no , phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : there is a lot of little tricks which uh sort of uh can not be protected and you guys will take them , `` which probably is also true . i mean , you know , it might be that people will take uh uh th the algorithms apart and use the blocks from that . but i somehow think that it would n't be so bad , as long as people are happy abou uh uh uh honest about it . phd e : yeah . professor b : and i think they have to be honest in the long run , because winning proposal again uh what will be available th is will be a code . so the uh the people can go to code and say `` well listen this is what you stole from me `` phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : you know ? phd e : right . professor b : `` so let 's deal with that `` . phd e : right . professor b : so i do n't see the problem . the biggest problem of course is that f that alcatel french telecom cl claims `` well we fulfilled the conditions . we are the best . uh . we are the standard . `` and e and other people do n't feel that , because they so they now decided that that is the whole thing will be done on well - endpointed data , essentially that somebody will endpoint the data based on clean speech , because most of this the speechdat - car has the also close speaking mike and endpoints will be provided . phd e : mm - hmm . ah . professor b : and uh we will run again still not clear if we are going to run the if we are allowed to run uh uh new algorithms , but i assume so . because uh we would fight for that , really . uh but since uh u u n u at least our experience is that only endpointing a a mel cepstrum gets uh gets you twenty - one percent improvement overall and twenty - seven improvement on speechdat - car then obvious the database uh i mean the the the uh the baseline will go up . and nobody can then achieve fifty percent improvement . phd e : right . professor b : so they agreed that uh there will be a twenty - five percent improvement required on on uh h u m bad mis badly mismatched phd e : but wait a minute , i thought the endpointing really only helped in the noisy cases . professor b : it uh phd e : oh , but you still have that with the mfcc . professor b : y yeah . yeah but you have the same prob i mean mfcc basically has an enormous number of uh insertions . phd e : yeah . right . yeah . yeah . yeah . professor b : and so , so now they want to say `` we we will require fifty percent improvement only for well matched condition , and only twenty - five percent for the serial cases . `` and uh and they almost agreed on that except that it was n't a hundred percent agreed . and so last time uh during the meeting , i just uh brought up the issue , i said `` well you know uh quite frankly i 'm surprised how lightly you are making these decisions because this is a major decision . for two years we are fighting for fifty percent improvement and suddenly you are saying `` oh no we we will do something less `` , but maybe we should discuss that . and everybody said `` oh we discussed that and you were not a mee there `` and i said `` well a lot of other people were not there because not everybody participates at these teleconferencing c things . `` then they said `` oh no no no because uh everybody is invited . `` however , there is only ten or fifteen lines , so people ca n't even con you know participate . so eh they agreed , and so they said `` ok , we will discuss that . `` immediately nokia uh raised the question and they said `` oh yeah we agree this is not good to to uh dissolve the uh uh the uh the criterion . `` phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so now officially , nokia is uh uh complaining and said they they are looking for support , uh i think qualcomm is uh saying , too `` we should n't abandon the fifty percent yet . we should at least try once again , one more round . `` phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so this is where we are . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : i hope that i hope that this is going to be a adopted . next wednesday we are going to have uh another uh teleconferencing call , so we 'll see what uh where it goes . phd e : so what about the issue of um the weights on the for the different systems , the well - matched , and medium - mismatched and professor b : yeah , that 's what that 's a g very good uh point , because david says `` well you know we ca we can manipulate this number by choosing the right weights anyways . `` so while you are right but uh you know but phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : uh yeah , if of course if you put a zero uh weight zero on a mismatched condition , or highly mismatched then then you are done . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : but weights were also deter already decided uh half a year ago . so phd e : and they 're the staying the same ? professor b : well , of course people will not like it . now what is happening now is that i th i think that people try to match the criterion to solution . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : they have solution . now they want to make sure their criterion is phd e : right . professor b : and i think that this is not the right way . phd e : yeah . professor b : uh it may be that that eventually it may ha may ha it may have to happen . but it 's should happen at a point where everybody feels comfortable that we did all what we could . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and i do n't think we did . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : basically , i think that that this test was a little bit bogus because of the data and uh essentially there were these arbitrary decisions made , and and everything . so , so so this is so this is where it is . so what we are doing at ogi now is uh uh uh working basically on our parts which we i think a little bit neglected , like noise separation . uh so we are looking in ways is in uh which uh with which we can provide better initial estimate of the mel spectrum basically , which would be a l uh , f more robust to noise , and so far not much uh success . we tried uh things which uh a long time ago bill byrne suggested , instead of using fourier spectrum , from fourier transform , use the spectrum from lpc model . their argument there was the lpc model fits the peaks of the spectrum , so it may be m naturally more robust in noise . and i thought `` well , that makes sense , `` but so far we ca n't get much much out of it . uh we may try some standard techniques like spectral subtraction and phd e : you have n't tried that yet ? professor b : not not not much . or even i was thinking about uh looking back into these totally ad - hoc techniques like for instance uh dennis klatt was suggesting uh the one way to uh deal with noisy speech is to add noise to everything . so . { comment } i mean , uh uh add moderate amount of noise to all data . so that makes uh th any additive noise less addi less a a effective , phd e : i see . professor b : right ? because you already uh had the noise uh in a phd e : right . professor b : and it was working at the time . it was kind of like one of these things , you know , but if you think about it , it 's actually pretty ingenious . so well , you know , just take a take a spectrum and and and add of the constant , c , to every every value . phd e : well you 're you 're basically y yeah . so you 're making all your training data more uniform . professor b : exactly . and if if then if this data becomes noisy , it b it becomes eff effectively becomes less noisy basically . but of course you can not add too much noise because then you 'll s then you 're clean recognition goes down , but i mean it 's yet to be seen how much , it 's a very simple technique . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : yes indeed it 's a very simple technique , you just take your spectrum and and use whatever is coming from fft , add constant , you know ? on onto power spectrum . that that or the other thing is of course if you have a spectrum , what you can s start doing , you can leave start leaving out the p the parts which are uh uh low in energy and then perhaps uh one could try to find a a all - pole model to such a spectrum . because a all - pole model will still try to to to put the the continuation basically of the of the model into these parts where the issue set to zero . that 's what we want to try . i have a visitor from brno . he 's a kind of like young faculty . pretty hard - working so he so he 's so he 's looking into that . and then most of the effort is uh now also aimed at this e e trap recognition . this uh this is this recognition from temporal patterns . phd e : hmm ! what is that ? professor b : ah , you do n't know about traps ! phd e : the traps sound familiar , i but i do n't professor b : yeah i mean tha this is familiar like sort of because we gave you the name , but , what it is , is that normally what you do is that you recognize uh speech based on a shortened spectrum . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : essentially l p - lpc , mel cepstrum , uh , everything starts with a spectral slice . uh so if you s so , given the spectrogram you essentially are sliding sliding the spectrogram along the uh f frequency axis phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and you keep shifting this thing , and you have a spectrogram . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so you can say `` well you can also take the time trajectory of the energy at a given frequency `` , and what you get is then , that you get a p vector . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and this vector can be a a s assigned to s some phoneme . namely you can say i it i will i will say that this vector will eh will will describe the phoneme which is in the center of the vector . and you can try to classify based on that . and you so you classi so it 's a very different vector , very different properties , we do n't know much about it , but the truth is phd e : hmm . but you have many of those vectors per phoneme , professor b : well , so you get many decisions . phd e : right ? uh - huh . professor b : and then you can start dec thinking about how to combine these decisions . exactly , that 's what yeah , that 's what it is . phd e : hmm . hmm . professor b : because if you run this uh recognition , you get you still get about twenty percent error uh twenty percent correct . you know , on on like for the frame by frame basis , so uh uh so it 's much better than chance . phd e : how wide are the uh frequency bands ? professor b : that 's another thing . well c currently we start i mean we start always with critical band spectrum . for various reasons . but uh the latest uh observation uh is that you you you are you can get quite a big advantage of using two critical bands at the same time . grad a : are they adjacent , or are they s professor b : adjacent , adjacent . and the reasons there are some reasons for that . because there are some reasons i can i could talk about , will have to tell you about things like masking experiments which uh uh uh uh yield critical bands , and also experiments with release of masking , which actually tell you that something is happening across critical bands , across bands . and phd e : well how do you how do you uh convert this uh energy over time in a particular frequency band into a vector of numbers ? professor b : it 's uh uh uh i mean time t - zero is one number , time t phd e : yeah but what 's the number ? is it just the professor b : it 's a spectral energy , logarithmic spectral energy , phd e : it 's just the amount of energy in that band from f in that time interval . professor b : yeah . yes , yes . yes , yes . and that 's what that 's what i 'm saying then , so this is a this is a starting vector . it 's just like shortened f spectrum , or something . but now we are trying to understand what this vector actually represents , phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : for instance a question is like `` how correlated are the elements of this vector ? `` turns out they are quite correlated , because i mean , especially the neighboring ones , right ? they they represent the same almost the same configuration of the vocal tract . phd e : yeah . yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : so there 's a very high correlation . so the classifiers which use the diagonal covariance matrix do n't like it . so we 're thinking about de - correlating them . then the question is uh `` can you describe elements of this vector by gaussian distributions `` , or to what extent ? because uh and and and so on and so on . so we are learning quite a lot about that . and then another issue is how many vectors we should be using , i mean the so the minimum is one . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : but i mean is the is the critical band the right uh uh dimension ? so we somehow made arbitrary decision , `` yes `` . then but then now we are thinking a lot how to uh how to use at least the neighboring band because that seems to be happening this i somehow start to believe that 's what 's happening in recognition . cuz a lot of experiments point to the fact that people can split the signal into critical bands , but then oh uh uh so you can you are quite capable of processing a signal in uh uh independently in individual critical bands . that 's what masking experiments tell you . but at the same time you most likely pay attention to at least neighboring bands when you are making any decisions , you compare what 's happening in in this band to what 's happening to the band to to to the to the neighboring bands . and that 's how you make uh decisions . that 's why the articulatory events , which uh f f fletcher talks about , they are about two critical bands . you need at least two , basically . you need some relative , relative relation . absolute number does n't tell you the right thing . you need to you need to compare it to something else , what 's happening but it 's what 's happening in the in the close neighborhood . so if you are making decision what 's happening at one kilohertz , you want to know what 's happening at nine hundred hertz and it and maybe at eleven hundred hertz , but you do n't much care what 's happening at three kilohertz . phd e : so it 's really w it 's sort of like saying that what 's happening at one kilohertz depends on what 's happening around it . it 's sort of relative to it . professor b : to some extent , it that is also true . yeah . but it 's but for but for instance , th uh uh what what uh humans are very much capable of doing is that if th if they are exactly the same thing happening in two neighboring critical bands , recognition can discard it . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : is what 's happening hey ! ok , we need us another another voice here . phd e : hey stephane . professor b : yeah , i think so . yeah ? phd e : yep . sure . go ahead . professor b : and so so so for instance if you d if you a if you add the noise that normally masks masks the uh the the signal right ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and you can show that in that if the if you add the noise outside the critical band , that does n't affect the the decisions you 're making about a signal within a critical band . unless this noise is modulated . if the noise is modulated , with the same modulation frequency as the noise in a critical band , the amount of masking is less . the moment you moment you provide the noise in n neighboring critical bands . so the s m masking curve , normally it looks like sort of i start from from here , so you { comment } you have uh no noise then you you you are expanding the critical band , so the amount of maching is increasing . and when you e hit a certain point , which is a critical band , then the amount of masking is the same . so that 's the famous experiment of fletcher , a long time ago . like that 's where people started thinking `` wow this is interesting ! `` so . phd e : yeah . professor b : but , if you if you if you modulate the noise , the masking goes up and the moment you start hitting the another critical band , the masking goes down . so essentially essentially that 's a very clear indication that that that cognition can take uh uh into consideration what 's happening in the neighboring bands . but if you go too far in a in a if you if the noise is very broad , you are not increasing much more , so so if you if you are far away from the signal uh from the signal f uh the frequency at which the signal is , then the m even the when the noise is co - modulated it it 's not helping you much . phd e : mm - hmm . yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : so . so things like this we are kind of playing with with with the hope that perhaps we could eventually u use this in a in a real recognizer . grad a : mm - hmm . professor b : like uh partially of course we promised to do this under the the the aurora uh program . phd e : but you probably wo n't have anything before the next time we have to evaluate , professor b : probably not . phd e : right ? professor b : well , maybe , most likely we will not have anything which c would comply with the rules . phd e : yeah . ah . professor b : like because uh uh phd e : latency and things . professor b : latency currently chops the require uh significant uh latency amount of processing , phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : because uh we do n't know any better , yet , than to use the neural net classifiers , uh and uh and uh traps . phd e : yeah . grad a : mm - hmm . professor b : though the the work which uh everybody is looking at now aims at s trying to find out what to do with these vectors , so that a g simple gaussian classifier would be happier with it . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : or to what extent a gaussian classifier should be unhappy uh that , and how to gaussian - ize the vectors , and so this is uh what 's happening . then sunil is uh uh uh asked me f for one month 's vacation and since he did not take any vacation for two years , i had no i did n't have heart to tell him no . so he 's in india . and uh phd e : is he getting married or something ? professor b : uh well , he may be looking for a girl , for for i do n't i do n't i do n't ask . i know that naran - when last time narayanan did that he came back engaged . phd e : right . well , i mean , i 've known other friends who they they go to ind - they go back home to india for a month , they come back married , professor b : yeah . i know . i know , i know , phd e : you know , huh . professor b : and then of course then what happened with narayanan was that he start pushing me that he needs to get a phd because they would n't give him his wife . and she 's very pretty and he loves her and so so we had to really phd e : so he finally had some incentive to finish , professor b : oh yeah . we had well i had a incentive because he he always had this plan except he never told me . sort of figured that that was a uh that he uh he told me the day when we did very well at our nist evaluations of speaker recognition , the technology , and he was involved there . we were after presentation we were driving home and he told me . phd e : when he knew you were happy , professor b : yeah . so i i said `` well , yeah , ok `` so he took another another three quarter of the year but uh he was out . so i would n't surprise me if he has a plan like that , though though uh pratibha still needs to get out first . cuz pratibha is there a a year earlier . and s and satya needs to get out very first because he 's he already has uh four years served , though one year he was getting masters . so . so . phd e : so have the um when is the next uh evaluation ? june or something ? professor b : which ? speaker recognition ? phd e : no , for uh aurora ? professor b : uh there , we do n't know about evaluation , next meeting is in june . and uh uh but like getting get together . phd e : oh , ok . are people supposed to rerun their systems , professor b : nobody said that yet . phd e : or ? professor b : i assume so . uh yes , uh , but nobody even set up yet the date for uh delivering uh endpointed data . phd e : hmm . wow . professor b : and this uh that that sort of stuff . but i uh , yeah , what i think would be of course extremely useful , if we can come to our next meeting and say `` well you know we did get fifty percent improvement . if if you are interested we eventually can tell you how `` , but uh we can get fifty percent improvement . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : because people will s will be saying it 's impossible . phd e : hmm . do you know what the new baseline is ? oh , i guess if you do n't have professor b : twenty - two t twenty twenty - two percent better than the old baseline . phd e : using your uh voice activity detector ? professor b : u yes . yes . but i assume that it will be similar , i do n't i i do n't see the reason why it should n't be . phd e : similar , yeah . professor b : i d i do n't see reason why it should be worse . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : cuz if it is worse , then we will raise the objection , phd e : yeah . professor b : we say `` well you know how come ? `` because eh if we just use our voice activity detector , which we do n't claim even that it 's wonderful , it 's just like one of them . phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . professor b : we get this sort of improvement , how come that we do n't see it on on on on your endpointed data ? phd c : yeah . i guess it could be even better , professor b : i think so . phd c : because the voice activity detector that i choosed is something that cheating , it 's using the alignment of the speech recognition system , professor b : yeah . c yeah uh phd c : and only the alignment on the clean channel , and then mapped this alignment to the noisy channel . professor b : and on clean speech data . yeah . phd e : oh , ok . professor b : well david told me david told me yesterday or harry actually he told harry from qualcomm and harry uh brought up the suggestion we should still go for fifty percent he says are you aware that your system does only thirty percent uh comparing to to endpointed baselines ? so they must have run already something . phd c : yeah . professor b : so . and harry said `` yeah . but i mean we think that we we did n't say the last word yet , that we have other other things which we can try . `` so . so there 's a lot of discussion now about this uh new criterion . because nokia was objecting , with uh qualcomm 's we basically supported that , we said `` yes `` . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : now everybody else is saying `` well you guys might must be out of your mind . `` uh the guenter hirsch who d does n't speak for ericsson anymore because he is not with ericsson and ericsson may not may withdraw from the whole aurora activity because they have so many troubles now . ericsson 's laying off twenty percent of people . phd e : where 's uh guenter going ? professor b : well guenter is already he got the job uh already was working on it for past two years or three years phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : he got a job uh at some some fachschule , the technical college not too far from aachen . so it 's like professor u university professor phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : you know , not quite a university , not quite a sort of it 's not aachen university , but it 's a good school and he he 's happy . phd e : mm - hmm . hmm ! professor b : and he well , he was hoping to work uh with ericsson like on t uh like consulting basis , but right now he says says it does n't look like that anybody is even thinking about speech recognition . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : they think about survival . yeah . so . so . but this is being now discussed right now , and it 's possible that uh that that it may get through , that we will still stick to fifty percent . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but that means that nobody will probably get this im this improvement . yet , wi with the current system . which event es essentially i think that we should be happy with because that that would mean that at least people may be forced to look into alternative solutions phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and phd c : mm - hmm . but maybe i i mean we are not too far from from fifty percent , from the new baseline . professor b : uh , but not phd c : which would mean like sixty percent over the current baseline , which is professor b : yeah . yes . yes . we we getting we getting there , right . phd c : well . we are around fifty , fifty - five . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : is it like sort of is how did you come up with this number ? if you improve twenty by twenty percent the c the f the all baselines , it 's just a quick c comp co computation ? phd c : yeah . i do n't know exactly if it 's professor b : uh - huh . i think it 's about right . phd c : yeah , because it de it depends on the weightings professor b : yeah , yeah . phd c : and yeah . but . mm - hmm . phd e : hmm . how 's your documentation or whatever it w what was it you guys were working on last week ? phd c : yeah , finally we we 've not finished with this . we stopped . phd d : more or less it 's finished . phd c : yeah . phd d : ma - nec to need a little more time to improve the english , and maybe s to fill in something some small detail , something like that , phd c : mm - hmm . phd d : but it 's more or less ready . phd c : yeah . well , we have a document that explain a big part of the experiments , phd d : necessary to to include the bi the bibliography . mm - hmm . phd c : it 's not , yeah , finished yet . mm - hmm . phd e : so have you been running some new experiments ? i i thought i saw some jobs of yours running on some of the machine phd c : yeah . right . we 've fff { comment } done some strange things like removing c - zero or c - one from the the vector of parameters , and we noticed that c - one is almost not useful at all . you can remove it from the vector , it does n't hurt . phd e : really ? ! that has no effect ? eh is this in the baseline ? or in uh phd c : in the no , in the proposal . phd e : in uh - huh , uh - huh . professor b : so we were just discussing , since you mentioned that , in it w phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : driving in the car with morgan this morning , we were discussing a good experiment for b for beginning graduate student who wants to run a lot of who wants to get a lot of numbers on something phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : which is , like , `` imagine that you will you will start putting every co any coefficient , which you are using in your vector , in some general power . phd e : in some what ? professor b : general pow power . like sort of you take a s power of two , or take a square root , or something . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so suppose that you are working with a s c - zer c - one . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so if you put it in a s square root , that effectively makes your model half as efficient . because uh your uh gaussian mixture model , right ? computes the mean . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and and uh i i i but it 's the mean is an exponent of the whatever , the the this gaussian function . phd e : you 're compressing the range , professor b : so you 're compressing the range of this coefficient , so it 's becoming less efficient . phd e : right ? of that professor b : right ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so . so . morgan was @ @ and he was he was saying well this might be the alternative way how to play with a with a fudge factor , you know , uh in the you know , just compress the whole vector . phd e : yeah . professor b : and i said `` well in that case why do n't we just start compressing individual elements , like when when because in old days we were doing when when people still were doing template matching and euclidean distances , we were doing this liftering of parameters , right ? phd e : uh - huh . professor b : because we observed that uh higher parameters were more important than lower for recognition . and basically the the c - ze c - one contributes mainly slope , phd e : right . professor b : and it 's highly affected by uh frequency response of the of the recording equipment and that sort of thing , phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so so we were coming with all these f various lifters . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : uh bell labs had he this uh uh r raised cosine lifter which still i think is built into h htk for reasons n unknown to anybody , but but uh we had exponential lifter , or triangle lifter , basic number of lifters . and . but so they may be a way to to fiddle with the f with the f phd e : insertions . professor b : insertions , deletions , or the the giving a relative uh basically modifying relative importance of the various parameters . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : the only of course problem is that there 's an infinite number of combinations and if the if you s if y phd e : oh . uh - huh . you need like a some kind of a professor b : yeah , you need a lot of graduate students , and a lot of computing power . phd e : you need to have a genetic algorithm , that basically tries random permutations of these things . professor b : i know . exactly . oh . if you were at bell labs or i d d i should n't be saying this in on on a mike , right ? or i uh ibm , that 's what maybe that 's what somebody would be doing . phd e : yeah . professor b : oh , i mean , i mean the places which have a lot of computing power , so because it is really it 's a p it 's a it 's it will be reasonable search phd e : mm - hmm . yeah . professor b : uh but i wonder if there is n't some way of doing this uh search like when we are searching say for best discriminants . phd e : you know actually , i do n't know that this would n't be all that bad . i mean you you compute the features once , professor b : yeah . yeah . phd e : right ? and then these exponents are just applied to that professor b : absolutely . and hev everything is fixed . everything is fixed . each each phd e : and is this something that you would adjust for training ? or only recognition ? professor b : for both , you would have to do . yeah . phd e : you would do it on both . professor b : you have to do bo both . phd e : so you 'd actually professor b : because essentially you are saying `` uh this feature is not important `` . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : or less important , so that 's th that 's a that 's a painful one , yeah . phd e : so for each uh set of exponents that you would try , it would require a training and a recognition ? professor b : yeah . but but wait a minute . you may not need to re uh uh retrain the m model . you just may n may need to c uh give uh less weight to to uh a mod uh a component of the model which represents this particular feature . you do n't have to retrain it . phd e : oh . so if you instead of altering the feature vectors themselves , you you modify the the the gaussians in the models . professor b : you just multiply . yeah . yep . you modify the gaussian in the model , but in the in the test data you would have to put it in the power , but in a training what you c in a training uh in trained model , all you would have to do is to multiply a model by appropriate constant . phd e : uh - huh . but why if you 're if you 're multi if you 're altering the model , why w in the test data , why would you have to muck with the uh cepstral coefficients ? professor b : because in uh test in uh test data you ca do n't have a model . you have uh only data . but in a in a tr phd e : no . but you 're running your data through that same model . professor b : that is true , but w i mean , so what you want to do you want to say if uh obs you if you observe something like stephane observes , that c - one is not important , you can do two things . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : if you have a trained trained recognizer , in the model , you know the the the the component which i i mean di dimension wh phd e : mm - hmm . all of the all of the mean and variances that correspond to c - one , you put them to zero . professor b : to the s you you know it . but what i 'm proposing now , if it is important but not as important , you multiply it by point one in a model . phd e : yeah . professor b : but but but phd e : but what are you multiplying ? cuz those are means , right ? grad a : you 're multiplying the standard deviation ? phd e : i mean you 're grad a : so it 's professor b : i think that you multiply the i would i would have to look in the in the math , i mean how how does the model uh phd e : i think you professor b : yeah . phd e : yeah , i think you 'd have to modify the standard deviation or something , so that you make it wider or narrower . grad a : cuz yeah . professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor b : effectively , that 's that that 's i exactly . that 's what you do . that 's what you do , you you you modify the standard deviation as it was trained . grad a : yeah . professor b : effectively you , you know y in f in front of the of the model , you put a constant . s yeah effectively what you 're doing is you is you are modifying the the the deviation . right ? grad a : the spread , right . phd e : sorry . professor b : yeah , the spread . grad a : it 's the same same mean , right ? professor b : and and and phd e : so by making th the standard deviation narrower , { comment } uh your scores get worse for professor b : yeah . phd e : unless it 's exactly right on the mean . professor b : your als no . by making it narrower , phd e : right ? professor b : uh y your phd e : i mean there 's you 're you 're allowing for less variance . grad a : mm - hmm . professor b : yes , so you making this particular dimension less important . because see what you are fitting is the multidimensional gaussian , right ? phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : it 's a it has it has uh thirty - nine dimensions , or thirteen dimensions if you g ignore deltas and double - deltas . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : so in order if you in order to make dimension which which stephane sees uh less important , uh uh i mean not not useful , less important , what you do is that this particular component in the model you can multiply by w you can you can basically de - weight it in the model . but you ca n't do it in a in a test data because you do n't have a model for th i mean uh when the test comes , but what you can do is that you put this particular component in and and you compress it . that becomes uh th gets less variance , subsequently becomes less important . phd e : could n't you just do that to the test data and not do anything with your training data ? professor b : that would be very bad , because uh your t your model was trained uh expecting uh , that would n't work . because your model was trained expecting a certain var variance on c - one . phd e : uh - huh . professor b : and because the model thinks c - one is important . after you train the model , you sort of y you could do you could do still what i was proposing initially , that during the training you you compress c - one that becomes then it becomes less important in a training . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : but if you have if you want to run e ex extensive experiment without retraining the model , you do n't have to retrain the model . you train it on the original vector . but after , you wh when you are doing this parametric study of importance of c - one you will de - weight the c - one component in the model , and you will put in the you will compress the this component in a in the test data . s by the same amount . phd e : could you also if you wanted to if you wanted to try an experiment uh by leaving out say , c - one , could n't you , in your test data , uh modify the all of the c - one values to be um way outside of the normal range of the gaussian for c - one that was trained in the model ? so that effectively , the c - one never really contributes to the score ? phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : no , that would be a severe mismatch , phd e : do you know what i 'm say professor b : right ? what you are proposing ? n no you do n't want that . phd e : yeah , someth professor b : because that would then your model would be unlikely . your likelihood would be low , right ? because you would be providing severe mismatch . phd e : mm - hmm . but what if you set if to the mean of the model , then ? and it was a cons you set all c - ones coming in through your test data , you you change whatever value that was there to the mean that your model had . professor b : no that would be very good match , right ? phd e : yeah . professor b : that you would phd c : which well , yeah , but we have several means . so . professor b : i see what you are sa saying , phd c : right ? grad a : saying . professor b : but uh , no , no i do n't think that it would be the same . i mean , no , the if you set it to a mean , that would no , you ca n't do that . y you ca you ca ch - chuck , you ca n't do that . phd e : oh , that 's true , right , yeah , because you you have phd c : wait . which professor b : because that would be a really f fiddling with the data , phd e : yeah . professor b : you ca n't do that . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : but what you can do , i 'm confident you ca well , i 'm reasonably confident and i putting it on the record , right ? i mean y people will listen to it for for centuries now , is what you can do , is you train the model uh with the with the original data . grad a : mm - hmm . professor b : then you decide that you want to see how important c c - one is . so what you will do is that a component in the model for c - one , you will divide it by by two . and you will compress your test data by square root . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : then you will still have a perfect m match . except that this component of c - one will be half as important in a in a overall score . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : then you divide it by four and you take a square , f fourth root . then if you think that some component is more is more important then th th th it then then uh uh i it is , based on training , then you uh multiply this particular component in the model by by by phd e : you 're talking about the standard deviation ? professor b : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor b : yeah , multiply this component uh i it by number b larger than one , phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : and you put your data in power higher than one . then it becomes more important . in the overall score , i believe . phd c : yeah , but , at the phd e : but do n't you have to do something to the mean , also ? grad a : yeah . phd c : but i think it 's uh the the variance is on on the denominator in the in the gaussian equation . so . i think it 's maybe it 's the contrary . if you want to decrease the importance of a c parameter , you have to increase it 's variance . professor b : yes . right . yes . phd d : multiply . professor b : exactly . yeah . so you so you may want to do it other way around , phd c : hmm . that 's right . ok . professor b : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . grad a : right . phd e : but if your if your um original data for c - one had a mean of two . professor b : uh - huh . phd e : and now you 're you 're you 're changing that by squaring it . now your mean of your c - one original data has { comment } is four . but your model still has a mean of two . so even though you 've expended the range , your mean does n't match anymore . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : let 's see . phd e : do you see what i mean ? phd c : i think what i see what could be done is you do n't change your features , which are computed once for all , professor b : uh - huh . phd c : but you just tune the model . so . you have your features . you train your your model on these features . phd e : mm - hmm . phd c : and then if you want to decrease the importance of c - one you just take the variance of the c - one component in the in the model and increase it if you want to decrease the importance of c - one or decrease it phd e : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd e : right . professor b : yeah . you would have to modify the mean in the model . i you i agree with you . yeah . yeah , but i mean , but it 's it 's i it 's do - able , phd c : well . phd e : yeah , so y professor b : right ? i mean , it 's predictable . uh . yeah . phd e : it 's predictable , yeah . professor b : yeah . yeah , it 's predictable . phd e : yeah . but as a simple thing , you could just just muck with the variance . phd c : just adjust the model , yeah . phd e : to get uh this uh this the effect i think that you 're talking about , professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : right ? professor b : it might be . phd e : could increase the variance to decrease the importance . professor b : mm - hmm . phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah , because if you had a huge variance , you 're dividing by a large number , { comment } you get a very small contribution . grad a : does n't matter phd c : yeah , it becomes more flat grad a : right . phd c : and professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah . grad a : yeah , the sharper the variance , the more more important to get that one right . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah , you know actually , this reminds me of something that happened uh when i was at bbn . we were playing with putting um pitch into the mandarin recognizer . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : and this particular pitch algorithm um when it did n't think there was any voicing , was spitting out zeros . so we were getting uh when we did clustering , we were getting groups uh of features professor b : p pretty new outliers , interesting outliers , right ? phd e : yeah , with with a mean of zero and basically zero variance . professor b : variance . phd e : so , when ener { comment } when anytime any one of those vectors came in that had a zero in it , we got a great score . i mean it was just , you know , incredibly high score , and so that was throwing everything off . phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : so if you have very small variance you get really good scores when you get something that matches . professor b : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : so . so that 's a way , yeah , yeah that 's a way to increase the yeah , n that 's interesting . so in fact , that would be that does n't require any retraining . professor b : yeah . no . no . phd c : no , that 's right . so it 's phd e : so that means it 's just professor b : yeah . phd c : just tuning the models and testing , actually . phd e : recognitions . professor b : yeah . phd e : yeah . phd c : it would be quick . phd e : you you have a step where you you modify the models , make a d copy of your models with whatever variance modifications you make , and rerun recognition . professor b : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah . phd e : and then do a whole bunch of those . professor b : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : that could be set up fairly easily i think , and you have a whole bunch of you know professor b : chuck is getting himself in trouble . phd e : that 's an interesting idea , actually . for testing the yeah . huh ! grad a : did n't you say you got these uh htk 's set up on the new linux boxes ? phd e : that 's right . grad a : yeah . phd e : in fact , and and they 're just t right now they 're installing uh increasing the memory on that uh the linux box . professor b : and chuck is sort of really fishing for how to keep his computer busy , grad a : right . professor b : right ? phd e : yeah . absinthe . professor b : well , you know , that 's phd e : absinthe . we 've got five processors on that . grad a : oh yeah . professor b : that 's yeah , that 's a good thing grad a : that 's right . professor b : because then y you just write the `` do `` - loops and then you pretend that you are working while you are sort of you c you can go fishing . phd e : and two gigs of memory . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah . grad a : pretend , yeah . phd e : exactly . yeah . phd d : go fishing . phd e : see how many cycles we used ? professor b : yeah . then you are sort of in this mode like all of those arpa people are , right ? phd e : yeah . professor b : uh , since it is on the record , i ca n't say uh which company it was , but it was reported to me that uh somebody visited a company and during a d during a discussion , there was this guy who was always hitting the carriage returns uh on a computer . phd e : uh - huh . professor b : so after two hours uh the visitor said `` wh why are you hitting this carriage return ? `` and he said `` well you know , we are being paid by a computer ty i mean we are we have a government contract . and they pay us by by amount of computer time we use . `` it was in old days when there were uh of pdp - eights and that sort of thing . phd e : oh , my gosh ! so he had to make it look like professor b : because so they had a they literally had to c monitor at the time at the time on a computer how much time is being spent i i i or on on this particular project . phd e : yeah . how idle time . grad a : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor b : nobody was looking even at what was coming out . phd e : have you ever seen those little um it 's it 's this thing that 's the shape of a bird and it has a red ball and its beak dips into the water ? professor b : yeah , i know , right . phd e : so if you could hook that up so it hit the keyboard professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . phd e : that 's an interesting experiment . professor b : it would be similar similar to i knew some people who were uh that was in old communist uh czechoslovakia , right ? so we were watching for american airplanes , coming to spy on on uh on us at the time , phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : so there were three guys uh uh stationed in the middle of the woods on one l lonely uh watching tower , pretty much spending a year and a half there because there was this service right ? and so they very quickly they made friends with local girls and local people in the village and phd e : yeah . professor b : and so but they there was one plane flying over s always uh uh above , and so that was the only work which they had . they like four in the afternoon they had to report there was a plane from prague to brno basically f flying there , phd e : yeah . professor b : so they f very q f first thing was that they would always run back and and at four o ' clock and and quickly make a call , `` this plane is uh uh passing `` then a second thing was that they they took the line from this u u post to uh uh a local pub . and they were calling from the pub . and they but third thing which they made , and when they screwed up , they finally they had to p the the p the pub owner to make these phone calls because they did n't even bother to be there anymore . and one day there was there was no plane . at least they were sort of smart enough that they looked if the plane is flying there , right ? and the pub owner says `` oh my four o ' clock , ok , quickly p pick up the phone , call that there 's a plane flying . `` phd e : yeah . professor b : there was no plane for some reason , phd e : and there was n't ? professor b : it was downed , or and so they got in trouble . but . but uh . phd e : huh ! well that 's that 's a really i professor b : so . so . yeah . phd e : that would n't be too difficult to try . professor b : yeah . phd e : maybe i could set that up . professor b : yeah . phd e : and we 'll just professor b : well , at least go test the s test the uh assumption about c - c - one i mean to begin with . but then of course one can then think about some predictable result to change all of them . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : it 's just like we used to do these uh these uh um the the uh distance measures . it might be that uh phd e : yeah , so the first set of uh variance weighting vectors would be just you know one modifying one and leaving the others the same . professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . phd c : yeah . maybe . phd e : and and do that for each one . professor b : because you see , i mean , what is happening here in a in a in a in such a model is that it 's tells you yeah what has a low variance uh is uh is uh is more reliable , phd e : that would be one set of experiment professor b : right ? how do we phd e : wh - yeah , when the data matches that , then you get really professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . phd e : yeah . right . professor b : how do we know , especially when it comes to noise ? phd e : but there could just naturally be low variance . professor b : yeah ? phd e : because i like , i 've noticed in the higher cepstral coefficients , the numbers seem to get smaller , right ? so d phd c : they t phd e : i mean , just naturally . phd c : yeah . professor b : yeah , th that 's phd c : they have smaller means , also . uh . phd e : yeah . exactly . and so it seems like they 're already sort of compressed . phd c : uh - huh . phd e : the range of values . professor b : yeah that 's why uh people used these lifters were inverse variance weighting lifters basically that makes uh uh euclidean distance more like uh mahalanobis distance with a diagonal covariance when you knew what all the variances were over the old data . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . hmm . professor b : what they would do is that they would weight each coefficient by inverse of the variance . turns out that uh the variance decreases at least at fast , i believe , as the index of the cepstral coefficients . i think you can show that uh uh analytically . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : so typically what happens is that you you need to weight the uh weight the higher coefficients more than uh the lower coefficients . phd e : hmm . mm - hmm . hmm . professor b : when yeah . when we talked about aurora still i wanted to m make a plea uh encourage for uh more communication between between uh uh different uh parts of the distributed uh uh center . uh even when there is absolutely nothing to to s to say but the weather is good in ore - in in berkeley . i 'm sure that it 's being appreciated in oregon and maybe it will generate similar responses down here , like , uh phd c : we can set up a webcam maybe . professor b : yeah . grad a : yeah . professor b : what you know , nowadays , yeah . it 's actually do - able , almost . phd e : is the um if we mail to `` aurora - inhouse `` , does that go up to you guys also ? professor b : i do n't think so . no . so we should do that . phd e : so i what is it grad a : yeah . professor b : we should definitely set up phd e : yeah we sh do we have a mailing list that includes uh the ogi people ? professor b : yeah . phd c : uh no . we do n't have . professor b : uh - huh . phd e : oh ! maybe we should set that up . that would make it much easier . professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah , that would make it easier . phd e : so maybe just call it `` aurora `` or something that would professor b : yeah . yeah . and then we also can send the the dis to the same address right , and it goes to everybody phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd c : yeah . phd e : ok . maybe we can set that up . professor b : because what 's happening naturally in research , i know , is that people essentially start working on something and they do n't want to be much bothered , right ? but what the the then the danger is in a group like this , is that two people are working on the same thing and i c of course both of them come with the s very good solution , but it could have been done somehow in half of the effort or something . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : oh , there 's another thing which i wanted to uh uh report . lucash , i think , uh wrote the software for this aurora - two system . reasonably uh good one , because he 's doing it for intel , but i trust that we have uh rights to uh use it uh or distribute it and everything . cuz intel 's intentions originally was to distribute it free of charge anyways . u s and so so uh we we will make sure that at least you can see the software and if if if if it is of any use . just uh phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : it might be a reasonable point for p perhaps uh start converging . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : because morgan 's point is that he is an experienced guy . he says `` well you know it 's very difficult to collaborate if you are working with supposedly the same thing , in quotes , except which is not s is not the same . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : which which uh uh one is using that set of hurdles , another one set is using another set of hurdles . so . and and then it 's difficult to c compare . phd c : what about harry ? uh . we received a mail last week and you are starting to to do some experiments . professor b : he got the he got the software . yeah . they sent the release . phd c : and use this intel version . professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah because intel paid us uh should i say on a microphone ? uh some amount of money , not much . not much i can say on a microphone . much less then we should have gotten for this amount of work . and they wanted uh to to have software so that they can also play with it , which means that it has to be in a certain environment they use actu actually some intel libraries , but in the process , lucash just rewrote the whole thing because he figured rather than trying to f make sense uh of uh including icsi software uh not for training on the nets but i think he rewrote the the the or so maybe somehow reused over the parts of the thing so that so that the whole thing , including mlp , trained mlp is one piece of uh software . phd e : mm - hmm . wow ! professor b : is it useful ? grad a : ye - yeah . professor b : yeah ? grad a : i mean , i remember when we were trying to put together all the icsi software for the submission . professor b : or that 's what he was saying , right . he said that it was like it was like just so many libraries and nobody knew what was used when , and and so that 's where he started and that 's where he realized that it needs to be needs to be uh uh at least cleaned up , grad a : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and so i think it this is available . so phd c : yeah . well , the the only thing i would check is if he does he use intel math libraries , professor b : uh e ev phd c : because if it 's the case , it 's maybe not so easy to use it on another architecture . professor b : n not maybe maybe not in a first maybe not in a first ap approximation because i think he started first just with a plain c c or c - plus - plus or something before phd c : ah yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : i i can check on that . yeah . phd c : yeah . phd e : hmm . professor b : and uh in otherwise the intel libraries , i think they are available free of f freely . but they may be running only on on uh on uh windows . phd c : yeah . professor b : or on on the phd c : on intel architecture maybe . professor b : yeah , on intel architecture , may not run in sun . phd c : i 'm yeah . professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor b : that is p that is that is possible . that 's why intel of course is distributing it , phd c : well . professor b : right ? or that 's phd c : yeah . well there are at least there are optimized version for their architecture . professor b : yeah . phd c : i do n't know . i never checked carefully these sorts of professor b : i know there was some issues that initially of course we d do all the development on linux but we use we do n't have we have only three uh uh uh uh s suns and we have them only because they have a spert board in . otherwise otherwise we t almost exclusively are working with uh pc 's now , with intel . in that way intel succeeded with us , because they gave us too many good machines for very little money or nothing . phd e : yeah . professor b : so . so . so we run everything on intel . and phd e : hmm . does anybody have anything else ? to shall we read some digits ? phd c : yeah . professor b : yes . i have to take my glasses phd e : so . hynek , i do n't know if you 've ever done this . the way that it works is each person goes around in turn , { comment } and uh you say the transcript number and then you read the digits , the the strings of numbers as individual digits . professor b : mm - hmm . phd e : so you do n't say `` eight hundred and fifty `` , you say `` eight five oh `` , and so forth . professor b : ok . ok . so can maybe can i t maybe start then ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about improvements on the baseline </s> phd e : so have the um when is the next uh evaluation ? june or something ? professor b : which ? speaker recognition ? phd e : no , for uh aurora ? professor b : uh there , we do n't know about evaluation , next meeting is in june . and uh uh but like getting get together . phd e : oh , ok . are people supposed to rerun their systems , professor b : nobody said that yet . phd e : or ? professor b : i assume so . uh yes , uh , but nobody even set up yet the date for uh delivering uh endpointed data . phd e : hmm . wow . professor b : and this uh that that sort of stuff . but i uh , yeah , what i think would be of course extremely useful , if we can come to our next meeting and say `` well you know we did get fifty percent improvement . if if you are interested we eventually can tell you how `` , but uh we can get fifty percent improvement . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : because people will s will be saying it 's impossible . phd e : hmm . do you know what the new baseline is ? oh , i guess if you do n't have professor b : twenty - two t twenty twenty - two percent better than the old baseline . phd e : using your uh voice activity detector ? professor b : u yes . yes . but i assume that it will be similar , i do n't i i do n't see the reason why it should n't be . phd e : similar , yeah . professor b : i d i do n't see reason why it should be worse . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : cuz if it is worse , then we will raise the objection , phd e : yeah . professor b : we say `` well you know how come ? `` because eh if we just use our voice activity detector , which we do n't claim even that it 's wonderful , it 's just like one of them . phd c : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . professor b : we get this sort of improvement , how come that we do n't see it on on on on your endpointed data ? phd c : yeah . i guess it could be even better , professor b : i think so . phd c : because the voice activity detector that i choosed is something that cheating , it 's using the alignment of the speech recognition system , professor b : yeah . c yeah uh phd c : and only the alignment on the clean channel , and then mapped this alignment to the noisy channel . professor b : and on clean speech data . yeah . phd e : oh , ok . professor b : well david told me david told me yesterday or harry actually he told harry from qualcomm and harry uh brought up the suggestion we should still go for fifty percent he says are you aware that your system does only thirty percent uh comparing to to endpointed baselines ? so they must have run already something . phd c : yeah . professor b : so . and harry said `` yeah . but i mean we think that we we did n't say the last word yet , that we have other other things which we can try . `` so . so there 's a lot of discussion now about this uh new criterion . because nokia was objecting , with uh qualcomm 's we basically supported that , we said `` yes `` . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : now everybody else is saying `` well you guys might must be out of your mind . `` uh the guenter hirsch who d does n't speak for ericsson anymore because he is not with ericsson and ericsson may not may withdraw from the whole aurora activity because they have so many troubles now . ericsson 's laying off twenty percent of people . phd e : where 's uh guenter going ? professor b : well guenter is already he got the job uh already was working on it for past two years or three years phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : he got a job uh at some some fachschule , the technical college not too far from aachen . so it 's like professor u university professor phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : you know , not quite a university , not quite a sort of it 's not aachen university , but it 's a good school and he he 's happy . phd e : mm - hmm . hmm ! professor b : and he well , he was hoping to work uh with ericsson like on t uh like consulting basis , but right now he says says it does n't look like that anybody is even thinking about speech recognition . phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : they think about survival . yeah . so . so . but this is being now discussed right now , and it 's possible that uh that that it may get through , that we will still stick to fifty percent . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but that means that nobody will probably get this im this improvement . yet , wi with the current system . which event es essentially i think that we should be happy with because that that would mean that at least people may be forced to look into alternative solutions phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and phd c : mm - hmm . but maybe i i mean we are not too far from from fifty percent , from the new baseline . professor b : uh , but not phd c : which would mean like sixty percent over the current baseline , which is professor b : yeah . yes . yes . we we getting we getting there , right . phd c : well . we are around fifty , fifty - five . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : is it like sort of is how did you come up with this number ? if you improve twenty by twenty percent the c the f the all baselines , it 's just a quick c comp co computation ? phd c : yeah . i do n't know exactly if it 's professor b : uh - huh . i think it 's about right . phd c : yeah , because it de it depends on the weightings professor b : yeah , yeah . phd c : and yeah . but . mm - hmm . phd e : hmm . how 's your documentation or whatever it w what was it you guys were working on last week ? phd c : yeah , finally we we 've not finished with this . we stopped . phd d : more or less it 's finished . phd c : yeah . phd d : ma - nec to need a little more time to improve the english , and maybe s to fill in something some small detail , something like that , phd c : mm - hmm . phd d : but it 's more or less ready . phd c : yeah . well , we have a document that explain a big part of the experiments , phd d : necessary to to include the bi the bibliography . mm - hmm . phd c : it 's not , yeah , finished yet . mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did the professor say about guenter ? </s> phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : now everybody else is saying `` well you guys might must be out of your mind . `` uh the guenter hirsch who d does n't speak for ericsson anymore because he is not with ericsson and ericsson may not may withdraw from the whole aurora activity because they have so many troubles now . ericsson 's laying off twenty percent of people . phd e : where 's uh guenter going ? professor b : well guenter is already he got the job uh already was working on it for past two years or three years phd e : mm - hmm . professor b : he got a job uh at some some fachschule , the technical college not too far from aachen . so it 's like professor u university professor phd e : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did phd c think about the baseline ? </s> professor b : uh , but not phd c : which would mean like sixty percent over the current baseline , which is professor b : yeah . yes . yes . we we getting we getting there , right . phd c : well . we are around fifty , fifty - five . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : is it like sort of is how did you come up with this number ? if you improve twenty by twenty percent the c the f the all baselines , it 's just a quick c comp co computation ? phd c : yeah . i do n't know exactly if it 's professor b : uh - huh . i think it 's about right . phd c : yeah , because it de it depends on the weightings </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on professor 's suggestions on improving model performance </s> professor b : that 's yeah , that 's a good thing grad a : that 's right . professor b : because then y you just write the `` do `` - loops and then you pretend that you are working while you are sort of you c you can go fishing . phd e : and two gigs of memory . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah . grad a : pretend , yeah . phd e : exactly . yeah . phd d : go fishing . phd e : see how many cycles we used ? professor b : yeah . then you are sort of in this mode like all of those arpa people are , right ? phd e : yeah . professor b : uh , since it is on the record , i ca n't say uh which company it was , but it was reported to me that uh somebody visited a company and during a d during a discussion , there was this guy who was always hitting the carriage returns uh on a computer . phd e : uh - huh . professor b : so after two hours uh the visitor said `` wh why are you hitting this carriage return ? `` and he said `` well you know , we are being paid by a computer ty i mean we are we have a government contract . and they pay us by by amount of computer time we use . `` it was in old days when there were uh of pdp - eights and that sort of thing . phd e : oh , my gosh ! so he had to make it look like professor b : because so they had a they literally had to c monitor at the time at the time on a computer how much time is being spent i i i or on on this particular project . phd e : yeah . how idle time . grad a : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor b : nobody was looking even at what was coming out . phd e : have you ever seen those little um it 's it 's this thing that 's the shape of a bird and it has a red ball and its beak dips into the water ? professor b : yeah , i know , right . phd e : so if you could hook that up so it hit the keyboard professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . phd e : that 's an interesting experiment . professor b : it would be similar similar to i knew some people who were uh that was in old communist uh czechoslovakia , right ? so we were watching for american airplanes , coming to spy on on uh on us at the time , phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : so there were three guys uh uh stationed in the middle of the woods on one l lonely uh watching tower , pretty much spending a year and a half there because there was this service right ? and so they very quickly they made friends with local girls and local people in the village and phd e : yeah . professor b : and so but they there was one plane flying over s always uh uh above , and so that was the only work which they had . they like four in the afternoon they had to report there was a plane from prague to brno basically f flying there , phd e : yeah . professor b : so they f very q f first thing was that they would always run back and and at four o ' clock and and quickly make a call , `` this plane is uh uh passing `` then a second thing was that they they took the line from this u u post to uh uh a local pub . and they were calling from the pub . and they but third thing which they made , and when they screwed up , they finally they had to p the the p the pub owner to make these phone calls because they did n't even bother to be there anymore . and one day there was there was no plane . at least they were sort of smart enough that they looked if the plane is flying there , right ? and the pub owner says `` oh my four o ' clock , ok , quickly p pick up the phone , call that there 's a plane flying . `` phd e : yeah . professor b : there was no plane for some reason , phd e : and there was n't ? professor b : it was downed , or and so they got in trouble . but . but uh . phd e : huh ! well that 's that 's a really i professor b : so . so . yeah . phd e : that would n't be too difficult to try . professor b : yeah . phd e : maybe i could set that up . professor b : yeah . phd e : and we 'll just professor b : well , at least go test the s test the uh assumption about c - c - one i mean to begin with . but then of course one can then think about some predictable result to change all of them . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : it 's just like we used to do these uh these uh um the the uh distance measures . it might be that uh phd e : yeah , so the first set of uh variance weighting vectors would be just you know one modifying one and leaving the others the same . professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . phd c : yeah . maybe . phd e : and and do that for each one . professor b : because you see , i mean , what is happening here in a in a in a in such a model is that it 's tells you yeah what has a low variance uh is uh is uh is more reliable , phd e : that would be one set of experiment professor b : right ? how do we phd e : wh - yeah , when the data matches that , then you get really professor b : yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . yeah . phd e : yeah . right . professor b : how do we know , especially when it comes to noise ? phd e : but there could just naturally be low variance . professor b : yeah ? phd e : because i like , i 've noticed in the higher cepstral coefficients , the numbers seem to get smaller , right ? so d phd c : they t phd e : i mean , just naturally . phd c : yeah . professor b : yeah , th that 's phd c : they have smaller means , also . uh . phd e : yeah . exactly . and so it seems like they 're already sort of compressed . phd c : uh - huh . phd e : the range of values . professor b : yeah that 's why uh people used these lifters were inverse variance weighting lifters basically that makes uh uh euclidean distance more like uh mahalanobis distance with a diagonal covariance when you knew what all the variances were over the old data . phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . hmm . professor b : what they would do is that they would weight each coefficient by inverse of the variance . turns out that uh the variance decreases at least at fast , i believe , as the index of the cepstral coefficients . i think you can show that uh uh analytically . phd e : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did the professor say about the soldiers ? </s> phd e : that 's an interesting experiment . professor b : it would be similar similar to i knew some people who were uh that was in old communist uh czechoslovakia , right ? so we were watching for american airplanes , coming to spy on on uh on us at the time , phd e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : so there were three guys uh uh stationed in the middle of the woods on one l lonely uh watching tower , pretty much spending a year and a half there because there was this service right ? and so they very quickly they made friends with local girls and local people in the village and phd e : yeah . professor b : and so but they there was one plane flying over s always uh uh above , and so that was the only work which they had . they like four in the afternoon they had to report there was a plane from prague to brno basically f flying there , phd e : yeah . professor b : so they f very q f first thing was that they would always run back and and at four o ' clock and and quickly make a call , `` this plane is uh uh passing `` then a second thing was that they they took the line from this u u post to uh uh a local pub . and they were calling from the pub . and they but third thing which they made , and when they screwed up , they finally they had to p the the p the pub owner to make these phone calls because they did n't even bother to be there anymore . and one day there was there was no plane . at least they were sort of smart enough that they looked if the plane is flying there , right ? and the pub owner says `` oh my four o ' clock , ok , quickly p pick up the phone , call that there 's a plane flying . `` phd e : yeah . professor b : there was no plane for some reason , phd e : and there was n't ? professor b : it was downed , or and so they got in trouble . but . but uh . phd e : huh ! well that 's that 's a really i professor b : so . so . yeah . phd e : that would n't be too difficult to try . professor b : yeah . phd e : maybe i could set that up . professor b : yeah . phd e : and we 'll just professor b : well , at least go test the s test the uh assumption about c - c - one i mean to begin with . but then of course one can then think about some predictable result to change all of them . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : it 's just like we used to do these uh these uh um the the uh distance measures . it might be that uh phd e : yeah , so the first set of uh variance weighting vectors would be just you know one modifying one and leaving the others the same . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about carriage returns ? </s> professor b : because then y you just write the `` do `` - loops and then you pretend that you are working while you are sort of you c you can go fishing . phd e : and two gigs of memory . phd c : yeah . phd e : yeah . grad a : pretend , yeah . phd e : exactly . yeah . phd d : go fishing . phd e : see how many cycles we used ? professor b : yeah . then you are sort of in this mode like all of those arpa people are , right ? phd e : yeah . professor b : uh , since it is on the record , i ca n't say uh which company it was , but it was reported to me that uh somebody visited a company and during a d during a discussion , there was this guy who was always hitting the carriage returns uh on a computer . phd e : uh - huh . professor b : so after two hours uh the visitor said `` wh why are you hitting this carriage return ? `` and he said `` well you know , we are being paid by a computer ty i mean we are we have a government contract . and they pay us by by amount of computer time we use . `` it was in old days when there were uh of pdp - eights and that sort of thing . phd e : oh , my gosh ! so he had to make it look like professor b : because so they had a they literally had to c monitor at the time at the time on a computer how much time is being spent i i i or on on this particular project . phd e : yeah . how idle time . grad a : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor b : nobody was looking even at what was coming out . phd e : have you ever seen those little um it 's it 's this thing that 's the shape of a bird and it has a red ball and its beak dips into the water ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee this morning . i 've received apologies for absence from siân gwenllian , and i 'm very pleased to welcome helen mary jones , who is substituting for siân today . can i ask whether members want to declare any interests , please ? can i just , then , place on record that i have got a son who was about to do a-levels , so is affected by the exam decision ? we 'll move on , then , to our substantive item today , which is an evidence session with the welsh government around the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on education in wales . i 'm very pleased to welcome kirsty williams , minister for education ; steve davies , who is director of the education directorate ; huw morris , who is the group director , skills , higher education and lifelong learning ; and rob orford , who is the chief scientific adviser for health . thank you all for coming . we know that this is a really difficult and pressurised time for everyone , and we appreciate your attendance . minister , i understand you wanted to make an opening statement today . kirsty williams am : yes , if that 's okay , chair . as you know , it 's not usually my practice to do that , but i think it is important today . covid-19 coronavirus is one of the most significant issues that the welsh government and the people of wales have dealt with in recent times . dealing with the impacts of this pandemic is extremely challenging . things are changing on an hourly basis , and we have to make decisions quickly to ensure public safety . but i would like to assure you that our aim , and my aim , and my main concern as the education minister is to protect all staff and pupils in our schools and other educational settings . but we also have a duty to ensure continuing and continuity of education . public health is clearly the priority here , but that does not change our belief that no child should miss out on any education , unless absolutely necessary . so , the decision to close all schools from tomorrow for statutory education provision was not taken lightly , but i believe it was necessary , given the advice and recommendations that we had received from a public health perspective and the situation that was developing on the ground . from next week , schools will have a new purpose . they will help support those most in need , including people involved in the immediate response to the coronavirus outbreak , and i 'm working with my colleagues in the cabinet , with government officials and our partners in local government to develop and finalise these plans . the key areas that we 're looking at are supporting and safeguarding the vulnerable and ensuring continuity of learning . this includes all of those who benefit from free school meals and children with additional learning needs . i can confirm that all maintained schools in wales already have access to a range of digital tools that can support distance learning through the world-class hwb digital learning platform , including virtual classrooms and video-conferencing facilities . a guide on what tools are available and how schools can use them has been developed and is being promoted widely . yesterday , i announced that , whilst there are no easy choices , we have agreed that the best way forward is not to proceed with the summer exam series . learners due to sit these exams will be awarded a fair grade to recognise their work , drawing on a range of information that is available , and i will announce further details shortly , but i felt it necessary to give early certainty to students and to staff . i would like to put on record my thanks to everyone working in education settings for the hard work that they have put in over the last few months in dealing with the virus and ensuring that pupils have been able to continue to learn . we need to continue to do this work together , as we face the continuing challenges posed by the coronavirus . diolch yn fawr . lynne neagle am : thank you very much , minister , for that statement . we 'll go to questions from members now , and i 've got some questions from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . can i thank you , kirsty , for your statement and the really difficult decisions that you 've been having to make ? you 've already indicated in your statement this morning that these decisions are not taken lightly , and we understand that that is the case across government . so , thank you for what you 've been doing . you 've outlined a little bit further there in your statement to us this morning about the new purpose . i take from what you 're saying that you have n't really developed that yet in terms of exactly what that is going to look like . you 've talked about the children of key workers , free school meals , additional learning needs . is there anything else you can tell us about that at the moment and how you might staff the schools in those particular areas ? kirsty williams am : thank you , dawn . so , you're absolutely right , our priority now is to operationalise , with colleagues in local government and schools , a practical response . and i have to say , we 're working to timescales that i would have hoped to have avoided , but given the fact that we 're having to make these decisions quite quickly , i hope that you will understand that perhaps where we start on monday might change when we have more time and more opportunities to develop programmes going forward . steve will be able to give you more details of the practical work that has already been going on , but our expectation will be that schools will be playing an important part in providing safe and secure places for children of those on the front-line response to dealing with the coronavirus to attend , and work is already under way with local authorities and individual schools on what that will look like for the emergency situation on monday . our other priority is indeed free school meals , and , again , where we eventually end up might be a different place to where we are on monday . again , we 're responding to the emergency situation that there will be families that were expecting a free school meal on monday , and , again , individual schools and local authorities are developing those plans at pace to be able to provide an emergency response as we work out a longer term plan to deal with the situation . the same thing also goes for additional learning needs , and attending to the needs of that particular group of learners . so , those conversations began a few days ago . i had the opportunity to meet with the first minister and andrew morgan , the leader of the welsh local government association , yesterday to talk about what local government could do , and what they were already doing . those plans in some places are already quite developed , and are now working at pace , but i hope you will understand that where we start on monday is the emergency response , and that work will develop as we go forward . but , steve , perhaps you could— ? because steve was the one making all those phone calls and doing the practical operational stuff , rather than me . steve . steve davies : in short , the new purpose is to meet the needs of particular groups of children and young people . in some cases , some of the response to supporting free school meals , in the short term in particular , we may use the schools as part of that , and i 'm certain that will happen in some cases . the second area is looking at how we support the children of key workers . now , there is still work to be done on identifying exactly the categories of key workers , but i think it 's really encouraging that in my discussions yesterday—i spoke with all 22 directors of education , and the examples we 're picking up in their work with schools is they 're already ahead of the curve in working with schools . so , schools have identified the number of children with health workers . it will grow , and we will need to look at that range . then , the third area is vulnerable children . they 're vulnerable sometimes in terms of education other than at school , vulnerable in terms of mental health , and for those children , as well as having an experience that we want to be planned , some have compared it to a snow day , particularly on monday , when you 're putting something together in the short term , but it will not be a formal curriculum that those children would normally go through . so , the range of activities—some will be focused on educational activities , some will be cultural , some will be sporting , and that plan will be developed on the basis of the age range of children , which in some cases may go from extremely young children up to those at the age of 16 in our all-through schools , but there will be a planned set of activities to cater for those children . what we are doing currently—i have staff back at cathays park who are in touch and working with directors of education to ensure that schools over the next two days will have been able to identify , at least at the earlier stage , in terms of health workers , the type and numbers of people . there are already schools who have informed us , and local authorities , of their plans for these activities to be starting next week , which is quite amazing , actually , given where we are . but we are expecting , and we 're writing to schools today , that during the course of next week , headteachers to be in schools , and with their staff , taking into consideration the health guidance as to which staff should or should not be in , and in that period from next monday through the two-week period , to easter , we expect staff to be both planning for delivery post easter , but also , as i said , building on and reflecting the good practice that 's already in place for schools that have engaged in activities , and i 'm sure a number of them will be inviting and enabling those children to come in on monday . so , monday will be a challenge for some , and not all will be delivering it , but we will be working so that we can get as much as possible delivered for those groups over the next two weeks , and particularly to have resilient programmes post easter for the groups of children in those three categories that i said . dawn bowden am : those that have been identified . can i just clarify one thing ? one of the identified vulnerable groups would clearly be children on the at-risk register . they would be included . steve davies : yes , definitely . vulnerable children , yes . kirsty williams am : in our discussions , we have asked local government to be working with the social services departments and individual schools to identify those children who may be in that situation . we know that , for some children , being at school is part of their safeguarding arrangements , and obviously we will need to be able to respond to those needs . steve davies : i wrote specifically yesterday to all directors of education to be assured that , for those children , the register is up to date and the plans are in place . i 'm working with albert heaney my colleague , the director for social services , who is meeting with the 22 directors of social services today to look to ensure that we are joined up in ensuring none of these children fall through the gap . lynne neagle am : okay . i 've got a supplementary from hefin , and then suzy . hefin david am : a very quick and simple question : how are you going to communicate this to parents ? there 's a bigger picture and it 's changing all the time , as you said . the welsh government have a route to communication . the most helpful thing i 've seen is that public health wales have a single website with information regarding the wider issue of the virus . how will this then be cascaded to schools , because there 's obviously a time lag ? so , have you considered how this is going to be communicated directly to parents ? kirsty williams am : we 're using all of our platforms of communication to get these messages across . so , we 're using the more informal methods of communication , but are relying on a systematic approach via individual directors and through to individual schools . welsh government already has a dedicated website page with all of the relevant information about coronavirus . we 're looking , as quickly as we can , to have a frequently asked education questions page that we can update . understandably , people are communicating to us on twitter asking questions . it is impossible for the communications team here to be able to respond individually to every single person that is sending facebook messages and sending tweets , so the best way we can do that is to collate the types of questions people are asking and then to be able to have a frequently updated question and answer page to try to respond to that . with regard to parents , for instance , we 're aware of schools that have already sent a questionnaire out last night to parents saying , 'do you consider yourself to be a key worker ? do you work in the nhs ? please let us know by tomorrow so we can put arrangements in place for your children . ' so , schools are already taking the initiative and having those conversations with parents about what their needs will be . and , as i said , hefin , will it be perfect on monday ? no . it wo n't be perfect by monday , because we 're working to such constrained timescales . but we will continue to build that resilience . we also have to think about systems that look at what might the epidemic do and have systems of resilience that may work next week , given the situation we find ourselves in with public health advice at the moment . but that public health advice may change . therefore , have we got a system that will be resilient in those circumstances ? these are some of the challenges that we 're having to grapple with . so , as i said , what happens on monday might look very different to where we are if schools are still off in may . so , i hope people will understand that we are working in those kinds of scenarios . lynne neagle am : suzy , you had a supplementary . suzy davies am : yes , just on this question of vulnerable children , i 'm just wondering how much discretion teachers are going to have in including individual children who may not be obviously under social services ' care or on a risk register or whatever . teachers know their pupils and , very sensitively , they could include people who may not be obviously in need . kirsty williams am : we would absolutely respect the professional judgment of individual headteachers to be able to have those conversations with their directors . as you said , quite rightly , they are the individuals who know their children best and know which children , perhaps , will need this extra support . we will put no constraints on those teachers trying to do that work . suzy davies am : okay . the second part of my question is : there were going to be easter holidays anyway , were n't there ? what was going to happen about free-school-meal children during that period ? has that gone out of the window now , the normal holiday provision for children ? because that 's not there normally , is it , except in separate— kirsty williams am : we do find ourselves in a strange situation . my understanding is what we 're trying to work to is that we would have ongoing provision and not to make some strange , 'you get this for two weeks , then you do n't get it for two weeks , and then you 're back in . ' my understanding is , in england , that is what they 're going to do . we 're trying to create a system where it will be seamless and it will not necessarily matter that two of those weeks were formally holidays . it wo n't matter to those nurses and doctors who will need to be in work during those weeks . we 're trying to create a system that will run uniformly . that 's our policy goal at the moment . lynne neagle am : helen mary . helen mary jones am : just briefly , building on suzy 's question , one particular group of children and young people that i hope will be eligible to be included in the potentially vulnerable category is young carers . for some of them , they may not be able to come into school because the people they 're caring for may have to be excluded because of their conditions . but i think that , for other young carers , coming to school is an absolute lifeline , because they 're working at home . so , i do n't know if it 's appropriate for you to specifically mention those in discussions with local authorities , but it 's a group of young people who , again , may not be vulnerable in other ways , but because of their caring responsibilities they may need school . and the other group—and this , i suppose , goes back to suzy 's point about teachers knowing their young people—is the children who may be living in situations where they 're at risk of witnessing domestic abuse . again , these may very well not be children who are in any formal contact with social services , but being at home may be really not a good place for them to be . so , again , i 'd put in an appeal for that to be something that perhaps can be raised with schools . if a teacher is worried about what a child 's circumstances are like at home , whether they can be , as you said , kirsty , included as one of the— . they may not be formally identified , but if the teacher knows that they 're at risk , or there is an instinct that they 're at risk , they might be able to be included in children who are allowed to take advantage of this special provision you 're making at this difficult time . kirsty williams am : we will certainly raise those issues . we have to do that in the context of what is deliverable , and we also have to do that in the context of the public health advice that we are receiving as well . one of the reasons why schools are closing is to help manage this disease . we know that the ability for school closures to make a contribution to that diminishes if we have significant children in school still . so , we will take these issues into consideration , but remembering this is part of an epidemic mitigation plan . rob is the expert on that , not me . rob orford : yes , absolutely . this is a rapidly-evolving problem and the scale is something that we have n't seen in 100 years , and so we 're having to evolve and iterate things as we go . next week , i think , will look different to this week . so , it kind of is what it is . we 've all got a role to play , and schools certainly have a significant role to play in breaking those chains of transmission . areas that we 're worried about are displacement activities . if we close the schools , then people collect at others ' houses . we need to send a really clear message that you 're all part of the solution , and the things that you do by distancing yourselves from your friends and your family are really important for us to get on top of this outbreak . the more that we can do that , the easier it will be when we go forward . helen mary jones am : i 'm sure that that 's true , but i 'm sure that we would n't be wanting a child who 's in a very pressured environment with perhaps a very difficult relationship between mum and dad— . it may be very important for those children to be out of that for some of the time . hopefully , we 're talking about relatively small numbers , but i just— . kirsty williams am : we will look at vulnerability in a holistic way . lynne neagle am : janet , you had a supplementary . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair , and good morning , minister , and your team . can i just put on record my thanks for all that you 're having to endure at this moment ? i think it 's fair to say you have the support of assembly members and , indeed , our communities . now , the question i have : if cylch meithrin have to close , where will they get money from to pay their staff ? because , currently , thankfully , there 's support for businesses . lynne neagle am : janet , we 're not doing cylch meithrin at the moment ; we are sticking with schools , as we discussed in advance . dawn . dawn bowden am : can i just get some clarity , steve , around what you were saying in terms of next week ? because i think the practical applications of this—and i understand that you do n't know all of this yet , i understand that—the practical applications are what is coming to us , obviously , with constituents saying , 'well , what 's going to happen to that ? ' just so that i can be clear , are you saying that , at this stage , every headteacher will be in school on monday , as will all their staff ? steve davies : within the scope of the guidance in terms of their health , the expectation—and this will be conveyed in letters by the minister today , to be made clear—is that they are closing for the majority of pupils , but our expectation within the guidance is that the headteacher with their staff will be coming in ; for some to start the delivery of what we just described , but that will probably be small numbers , but more importantly to plan to ensure that , after the formal easter period , which is school holidays , the schools are geared to cater for the range of pupils that we 've been discussing . dawn bowden am : so , would you anticipate—again , i know this is all a bit 'if and when ' , and it depends on the changing nature of the advice , but from what you 're saying , i think we can probably anticipate that , as we go forward , there will probably be fewer schools opening and operable—that we may be moving those children on to fewer sites . would that possibly— ? kirsty williams am : that is a potential . so , we already know that one of our local authorities already has identified a strategic pattern of schools that they will want to operate in this way . that local authority has already chosen those locations , and is already having communications with how they will then staff those centres . so , that could well— . that , i expect , in the longer term , will be the nature of the provision that we will get to . but that 's not for us to dictate . the local authorities are best placed to understand what is the best , pragmatic use of the resources that they have available ; and of course those resources , primarily , are human beings . so , we 've talked a lot this morning in the context of teaching staff , teaching assistants , but we 're also having discussions with local authorities , and i met with the council for wales of voluntary youth services this week , to look at deploying youth workers , to look to be deploying other staff that the local authority may employ , like sports development officers . there may be cultural officers that can have something to offer . welsh government will be talking with a range of our partners who perhaps their normal activities ca n't continue at the moment , but actually have personnel who want to add to this effort , who want to be able to be part of a provision going forward in the longer term , to be able to provide a great place for children to be . we want to give parents , who we are asking— . let 's think about it , in these worst of times , we 're asking parents to leave their children so that they can go and do essential work , and some of that essential work is putting themselves at risk , potentially . and we want to give those parents confidence that , when they leave their child with us , that child will receive something really worthwhile , and they can direct all of their attention to doing their job . lynne neagle am : just before you— . janet , have you got a supplementary on schools now , not on early years settings ? janet finch-saunders am : i lost the signal before , so it 's a little bit confusing at this end , so bear with me . just in terms of the closure of schools , i have been asked by teachers what does new purpose—you may have covered it , but bear in mind [ inaudible . ] —mean in practice . and also , they 're already asking what will next— ? i know you said earlier that next week could look and probably will look significantly different than this week , but what can they expect to be happening next week in terms of this new purpose work ? lynne neagle am : we 've covered that , janet . kirsty williams am : first of all , janet , i just want to say thank you very much for your kind comments . that 's really , really kind of you . we will be sending a letter today to clarify those positions . so , each school will receive letters today about the expectations of schools next week . lynne neagle am : i think you 're having trouble hearing us , are n't you , so i think— ? janet finch-saunders am : no , i heard that loud and clear . lynne neagle am : but i think you missed the earlier comments , when we went into some detail on the new purpose of schools . so , i 'm sorry about that ; we are having some problems with the connection . janet finch-saunders am : yes , we could n't get a signal . dawn bowden am : just in relation to special schools and how they will fit into this new purpose arrangement . kirsty williams am : yes , they 're absolutely central to that planning . we know , again , that some of these children are our most vulnerable and they are some of our most pressurised families . therefore , the same situation that we 've just described for maintained schools also applies to special schools . we 'll be having discussions about what arrangements can be made for those children within their own usual settings . in some cases , that may not be possible . so , again , already local authorities are making different provision . can i give a shout out to the work of rhondda cynon taf in this regard , who are already doing some excellent work with regard to how they can keep in touch with their children who usually would attend their special schools . but , again , steve can give more detail . steve davies : i think special schools have already been hit by this challenge , because a significant proportion of their children , because of their conditions , have not been coming to school , they 've been isolated . but the principle we 've used there is , actually , even if it 's a minority of children who go to those schools and are vulnerable , they deserve and need that support through the school . so , we would expect that to function with the focus on vulnerable children . but similarly , even in special schools , there will be children whose parents will be key workers , so we would expect them to apply that same principle . just quickly in response to the earlier question , while we may bring some groups of children into separate schools , we ’ ll have to continue with the principle of keeping social distance and any provision for a child in a special school in a different setting would be unlikely , given the nature of the special school , so we would look to cater for that within the original school . dawn bowden am : just a couple more questions from me . it ’ s likely , because i know it has already happened , that some schools might actually close before monday . some schools have already partially closed . are you quite happy that headteachers still have the discretion to do that , if they feel that ’ s the right thing to do ? kirsty williams am : in this situation , the discretion of the head still remains . as i said , we will be communicating with all schools today about our expectations , if at all possible , to have schools open for staff to do some of this planning and to be able to respond to these priority needs that we 've just talked about . steve davies : the rationale of headteachers for closing schools up to now has been that they ca n't cope with the safety of the children . i think , moving forward , it 's unlikely that that would be a rationale that headteachers would want to use for not engaging and planning for the future . dawn bowden am : we 're only talking about one more day , now , anyway , are n't we ? so , just in terms of confirmed cases in schools , is your view at this stage that , if there is a confirmed case in a school , once that school has been deep-cleaned , it can reopen again ? kirsty williams am : if we had a confirmed case in a school , then all the usual mechanisms arranged by public health wales would kick in at that point . dawn bowden am : okay . and my final question is in relation to the position of early years and childcare settings . i know that kind of crosses over into somebody else 's portfolio as well , but i think we know that . certainly what i 've seen , and i 'm sure this is true elsewhere as well , we 've seen nurseries closing down because the parents are actually taking the children out of those nurseries . i 've got one in particular , there are kids from the ages of 6 to 12 years in there , and the parents are taking them out . they 've got 30 staff there , catering for 200 children and no children to care for and the organisation , at this stage , is unable to claim on their insurance for the ongoing payment of those staff wages . is there any advice that we can give to people in that situation at this stage ? kirsty williams am : sure . as you say , many of these settings are businesses—people 's businesses and they play a hugely important role and it 's a very worrying time for them . we have said that we will continue to pay for childcare , delivered under the childcare offer even when a child is unable , or a parent is unwilling , to take up that place . so , if that setting is receiving a childcare payment from the welsh government as part of our childcare offer , that will be paid , regardless of whether that child attends or not . and i know that we 're also working with local authorities to ensure a similar position on flying start childcare and early education . so , that payment will be made , regardless of whether a child is attending . it 's also important that childcare settings will be able to apply for the various packages of support that are being made available by my colleague , ken skates . lynne neagle am : hefin , then janet . hefin david am : yes , i 'd just like to turn that around from the parents ' point of view . with schools closing , there are a lot of parents then losing 10 hours of free childcare , but from a settings point of view , they 'll continue to be able to receive , for the time being , the nursery care . kirsty williams am : yes , so the decision that has been taken by my colleague , julie morgan , is that settings should stay open at the moment unless public health changes . that 's being kept under constant review on public health . again , the issue is that we know that that childcare is vital to many families , especially—and we 're particularly concerned about those individuals who are trying to help us overcome and solve these problems . if you have any specific questions about that , we 'll be happy to take them back to julie morgan . lynne neagle am : janet . janet finch-saunders am : is this the cylch question ? lynne neagle am : yes , please . janet finch-saunders am : sorry , thank you . yes , just basically , cylch meithrin , there are concerns— [ interruption . ] lynne neagle am : we 've lost janet . we 'll come back to her . kirsty williams am : i think if the issue is about funding for cylch meithrin , these are not normal circumstances . as a welsh government , we will take every step to provide continuity of funding , if at all possible . we will overcome this , and when we overcome this situation we find ourselves in , we will need those childcare settings , we will need those private businesses and we will need our cylch meithrin to be there to respond and to be able to go on doing the job that they usually do for us . and if there is any way that we can , as a government , ensure that that happens by carrying on funding things , even if they are not able to run , all usual— [ inaudible . ] — around service-level agreements are off . i 'm not setting the precedent—let me make that absolutely clear . [ laughter . ] but , you know , we will not undermine businesses and voluntary provision like cylch by withdrawing welsh government funding . i hope i 've been clear . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you for that . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , kirsty . lynne neagle am : if we can move on to talk about exams , obviously you made the announcement yesterday . i completely understand that everything is a very fast-moving situation , but , as you know , there are a lot of questions that people have about young people who 've put a lot of work in . are you able to tell us any more today ? in particular , have you got any idea about timescales now for setting out what the approach will be to handling the lack of summer exams ? kirsty williams am : yes , it is a devastating decision to have to have been taken , but i have done so on the very , very clear and unambiguous advice from qualifications wales . i met with qualifications wales and the wjec yesterday . what was most important to them was that i made an early decision and i did not equivocate on what would happen for the exams . i was able to make an informal decision at that meeting , and then , of course , there is a formal process that we have to go through . that , now , allows qualifications wales and the exam board to operationalise that decision , and they will be communicating with schools as quickly as possible about what schools will need to do to ensure that the systems that they will now put in place can work . we are trying , as far as we can , as i understand it , to be able to mirror as closely as possible the usual results day , for instance . it might not be possible , because , of course , we 're dealing with a situation that requires human beings to be involved in it , and those human beings could find themselves unwell . so , our best attempts will be to maintain the normal rhythm of an exams day in august , but that has to be caveated by the fact that we 're dealing with difficult circumstances . but , the wjec and qualifications wales will be making urgent communications to exam centres to explain what will need to happen next . lynne neagle am : okay . janet , you had a question on this . janet finch-saunders am : yes , i think i raised it yesterday , kirsty , but you were receiving loads of questions . i 'd just ask for some further clarification about coursework , because only 30 per cent of that is done . years 11 and 13 , typically , in my case they 're what 's been raised with me—do you have any advice for them ? kirsty williams am : okay , so , all exams are cancelled , but year 11 and year 13 will be given a grade—i think that 's a distinction that people need to be aware of . that is because those years and those grades are gateway qualifications , and they are points of movement in the education system . so , it 's really important for those students that they are not disadvantaged in any way by not being able to receive a grade that helps them to make a decision as a qualifying step into what they will do next , whether that be university , whether that be a degree apprenticeship or whether that be going into sixth form , into a college , into an apprenticeship or into some work-based learning opportunities . that 's why we have to focus on those children , because for them , it is absolutely critical that we do . we are at an advantage in wales , can i say ? because of the nature of our examination system , those students already have a lot of externally assessed work that we can use as a basis to move forward on . because we 've kept our as-levels , we have got that data . because we have a gcse system— . our year 11s , if they 're doing triple science , they 've already done 40 per cent of their paper , so we 're very fortunate . because of the structures that we have got in our qualification system , there is already lots and lots of externally-verified work that we can use , alongside , potentially , teacher evaluation of students as well . and i think that 's really important . we ’ re starting from a better base than simply having none of that externally-verified data . what will also be important is that these children have confidence in those qualifications , and so we will be looking at a modulated arrangement within wales , and i know that qualifications wales are discussing with their counterparts across the uk a modulated system across the uk . so , actually , we can make sure that our standards are maintained by actually having that modulation across the uk . so , we know that those children never have to worry about the rigour that has gone into determining that grade . so , they can have real confidence . lynne neagle am : okay . helen mary . helen mary jones am : thank you . a supplementary question that might feed into that moderation . you 'll know that the national union of students has suggested that black and minority ethnic children and children from the working class , on the whole , do n't do as well , in terms of their assessment by their own teachers . i do n't know what their evidence is for that . we also know , of course , that boys tend to do better in exams , and girls tend to do better at coursework , for whatever reason that is . so , just to ask you at this early stage to build in those considerations around potential unconscious bias into that overall system that you 're talking about . and , of course , you are right to say that , because we have got some elements of external moderation here , those factors may be less for us in wales than they might for colleagues in england . kirsty williams am : yes , i think we are starting at a different base , thank goodness . so , you 're quite right . as i said , students will have done unit 1 papers last year if they 're gcse students . dare i say it , some might even have done early entry . so , we still have elements of coursework that are externally verified . so , children might well have done lots of oral exams in their english and in their welsh language . so , we have lots of pieces of work that will have been externally verified . i certainly will ensure that these concerns are passed on . i 'm sure that qualifications wales are thinking about it . i have every confidence that they and the wjec will come up with a very comprehensive way of establishing those grades , but i have to say , in some ways , i have to step back now , because you would not expect me , in normal circumstances , to dictate to the wjec how much percentage goes for that , and how much percentage is allocated for that ; that would not be appropriate for a minister . my job is to make the decision on the examinations on the basis of having confidence that what can be put in place is fair and is equitable , and i have confidence that that will be the case . helen mary jones am : thank you . suzy davies am : a few things from me . one is , obviously , pupils are being asked to work at home as well now , some of whom will be doing gcse and a-level courses . so , there 's just a question , generally , from me— because we 're encouraging these kids to carry on working—how that will be accommodated by qualifications wales , i guess , in this modulation process . it may be that your at-home work will be of a higher standard or a lower standard than a teacher would be expecting . secondly , you mentioned the as-levels , of course , as being of value at the moment , but we 've got people in year 12 who now wo n't be doing their ass . is there any steer at this stage about what they will be expected to do ? will they be doing two sets of exams next year , for example ? or is as just off the table ? in which case , how are the a2s going to be calculated in due course ? and then , finally from me , we do have some vocational qualifications that are up for examination as well—your btecs , and i think it 's the association of accounting technicians , which is a lot of computer-based learning—which is due to be examined within three weeks . those aren ’ t a-levels or gcses . i appreciate that you may not have the answer just at the moment , but are they off as well is the question , i guess ? kirsty williams am : with regard to as-levels—no final decision has been made for exactly how those students will be treated . there are a range of options that could be used , but again , we will want to be thinking about student well-being , fairness and equity in that regard , and i will update members as soon as i have received definitive advice from qualifications wales around that , and that has n't happened yet . with regard to other types of qualifications , as you will be aware , the vast majority of btecs is a modular , continually-assessed piece of work , and we would have every expectation that btecs will be able to be awarded , but clearly , those conversations are with awarding bodies—they tend to be uk awarding bodies , rather then necessarily our wjec exam board—and those conversations are ongoing . but i have every expectation that those qualifications will be awarded and , of course , because of their nature there 's even more evidence of continued assessment . huw , i do n't know if there 's anything else that you would like to add about those types of qualifications . huw morris : no . i think you 've covered most of it . i do n't have a definitive answer for the att qualification , but we can look into that and come back to you . suzy davies am : well , i 've just had a constituent ask , so that would be very helpful . and homeworking— kirsty williams am : homeworking , right . suzy davies am : —is that going to count towards the assessments , overall assessments ? kirsty williams am : well , potentially , as i said . i do n't know the exact elements . what will be absolutely necessary is that qualifications wales and the wjec will be able to give absolute clarity and simplicity around how those grades will be arrived at , because parents , teachers and students will want to know that , and my expectation is on them to be able to clearly communicate what elements will and will not be taken into consideration when awarding those grades . suzy davies am : that 's great . at least we covered it . thank you , minister—thank you , kirsty . lynne neagle am : and , just before we move on , have the universities across the uk indicated that they are content with this approach going forward—content to accept students on this basis ? kirsty williams am : certainly . there have been discussions with universities and ucas , of course , that this also has a bearing on . one of the— . and the views of university and how university terms might be impacted is one of the ways and one of the reasons that we 've factored in to making these decisions . those discussions with universities are ongoing , are n't they , huw ? huw morris : yes . so , we 've been in regular conversation with universities wales and through them with universities uk and we 've received every indication that the approach that 's been adopted here has been welcomed by the institutions . those conversations will continue as we work through the practicalities of how the gradings that are awarded are going to feed through into university admissions decisions and enrolment . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . well , we 've got some questions now from suzy on the potential closures of colleges and universities . suzy davies am : okay . well , it 's a very general question , really . i appreciate you 've already indicated there are lots of ongoing conversations , but my understanding is whether colleges or universities close is pretty much still at their own discretion . we 're going to be asking some questions on emergency legislation shortly , which may impact on the answer you can give today , but what sort of conversations are you having with fe and he at the moment about how they decide ? kirsty williams am : well , you 're absolutely right . as we often say in this committee , universities are autonomous institutions—a status that they guard jealously and we would never want to question . universities have been making the decision to move as much of their learning online as they possibly can and we continue to have conversations with them . colleges are in a similar position , looking to do as much as they can to be able to provide continuity of learning via distance learning methods , and the bill , potentially , does give us more powers of intervention in both the fe and the he sector . suzy davies am : i might ask you about that in a minute , because i do n't even know what the bill says yet . kirsty williams am : huw , i do n't know if there 's anything you want to add . huw morris : no—just to confirm what 's been said and also to add in that independent training providers , similarly autonomous , like colleges and universities , have been moving in the same direction . we 've been very impressed with the maturity and forward-planning that 's been adopted by all of those institutions and their representative bodies . we 've got consistency in the approach and a common desire , and investment in moving towards online support for students . suzy davies am : and there 's still this safety net idea . certainly , colleges have indicated , as with schools , that , for the most vulnerable learners , they 'll have something in place that might permit attendance on an individual basis . huw morris : that 's my understanding , yes , and , again , we 've been in regular conversation with them about that . my understanding is that they 're going to spend the next week working through the detail of how that will work for the institutions . suzy davies am : that 's fair enough . and , presumably , education maintenance allowance will still be paid . kirsty williams am : yes . arrangements have been made to ensure that ema continues to be paid to all students who are entitled . suzy davies am : that 's right . you indicated that any welsh government support 's going to stay , whatever the circumstances are—in your portfolio . kirsty williams am : yes . i 'm doing my best , but it 's an absolute yes on the ema . there will be no disruption to ema . suzy davies am : okay . you might get some further questions on he and fe . lynne neagle am : yes . we 've got some further questions , indeed , from helen mary and then hefin . helen mary jones am : now or in a bit ? just further to ema , of course , at the moment , that has an attendance qualification , does n't it ? and you do n't get your ema if you do n't turn up . should we take from your last answer that that attendance qualification does n't apply anymore ? kirsty williams am : yes . they ca n't turn up if the institution is not open , and that 's not their fault . helen mary jones am : no , but that is something that 's been a worry , so that 's really encouraging to hear . thinking about students in higher education , can you give an assurance that student maintenance payments will continue as normal ? is that the intention ? that 's really good to hear . and have you given any special ministerial instruction to student finance wales on processing applications for support or changes of circumstances , or is that something that 's kind of ongoing at the moment ? kirsty williams am : those conversations are ongoing with the student loans company . as i said , we anticipate no disruption to— . we do n't anticipate any change in the approach to students as a result of this . individual student circumstances could well change and our expectation would be that the student loans company would respond to that . all i would say is , just to remind people : people who work for the student loans company are no more able to resist this disease than anybody else . there will undoubtedly in some cases be really practical challenges to service delivery , simply because organisations could be losing staff because of illness or the need to self-isolate or because they are reacting to social-distancing messages from the government . so , i think we just need to bear that in mind : that these organisations are doing their best , but , if they are badly affected by staff numbers being off because of the virus , then i hope people will give them due consideration . helen mary jones am : yes , that makes sense , of course , because we 've been told that universities wo n't be able to entirely close , because there will be students who ca n't go home— kirsty williams am : it is their home . helen mary jones am : —overseas students , for example . what discussions have you been having with the sector to make sure that those students ' basic needs are met , that there 's still food , shelter , whatever they need ? kirsty williams am : well , obviously , universities have a duty of care to those students that find themselves in those circumstances , and every conversation that huw 's been having would suggest that universities are well aware of their need to do that . huw morris : we instituted a monitoring process very early on in the onset of the disease , not least because a number of institutions have campuses and activities in china and other parts of south-east asia . and so , as the disease has progressed , we 've seen lessons being learned from the support for students who are in isolation coming from there to the uk , and i am assured that the universities here in wales have got processes in place that support those learners . helen mary jones am : that 's really helpful . and on this specifically—last question from me— have you considered whether students might need to be refunded some of their tuition fees , should the academic year not be completed ? huw morris : so , as the institutions move more and more of their material and some of their assessment online , clearly , there are lessons that will need to be taken on board . there are established quality assurance and enhancement procedures in institutions to enable the tutors and other supporters to make sure that that material meets their needs . the intention in all of these institutions is that they will complete their course of study . there are appeals mechanisms and feedback mechanisms through the students union and through course committees and other things within institutions to make sure that any concerns or incomplete work are addressed . failing those institutional mechanisms , there is a uk-wide system through the office of the independent adjudicator for students to take forward any concerns that they have . so , we 're confident that that system will be robust and will make sure that the students are getting a course of learning that meets their needs . lynne neagle am : okay . suzy , you had a supplementary . suzy davies am : no , mr morris has answered my question . lynne neagle am : okay . we 've got a couple more questions now on vulnerable learners . i 've got helen mary , then hefin . helen mary jones am : i think , chair , the minister has already answered what the— . but thinking just a little bit more broadly about the mental health and well-being of staff and learners across a range of educational settings , or , indeed , young people who ca n't access educational settings , what considerations are you giving to how that mental health and well-being might be supported through what is an incredibly difficult time for everyone ? kirsty williams am : yes , that is correct . so , our expectation would be that during a prolonged period of closure—which i think , if we 're honest , we have to acknowledge is what we 're looking at—we would expect school staff—well-being staff , for instance in school—to be doing check-ins—phone check-ins , potentially , or facetime check-ins , with students , just to keep in touch with them as we go forward . we 'll be looking to promote amongst young people a range of online facilities that are available—so , for instance , meic website—so , looking to use a variety of platforms . we do , of course , have the formal nhs counselling services . i 'm concerned , of course , that for some children their access to their counsellor is via their school . we know that , and we 're just double checking the capacity of online counselling that already exists—online counselling tools that children already use because they do n't want to go to the counsellor in the school and be seen in the school corridor going to the counsellor . they 're already using those online methods and we expect to be able to continue , as far as possible , those kinds of mechanisms where children can have their mental health needs and their questions answered , and their worries . i think we have to remember that this is a really worrying time for children and young people . one of the reasons , again , that we wanted to keep schools going as long as possible—and teachers have been working so hard to do that—is because that routine of going into school and that normality is one that we 've needed and wanted to maintain . children will have worries about their own health ; they 'll have worries about the health of their parents and their grandparents ; they will be consuming potentially media and news stories that have empty supermarket shelves . so , we need to understand , and i think we will also have to recognise , that this support will have to be ongoing once we 're back to normal , and we will have to continue to look to support children in the longer term who will have lived through this experience . they are incredibly resilient , and they have been the champions of some of our public health messages . they are so much better and so much more compliant on the whole 'washing your hands ' and things like that than even adults have been . so , they are incredibly resilient , but we also have to recognise that it can be a really worrying time for them . helen mary jones am : can i just— ? just a supplementary to that—you 've mentioned already , kirsty , the importance of youth services , and , particularly thinking voluntarily youth services , you 've given the commitment , when were talking about mudiad ysgolion meithrin earlier , that services that are part-funded by grants through the welsh government , for example , thinking of the national youth voluntary service—will those be able to be maintained even if settings have had to be shut as well ? obviously , local authorities will have to make their own decisions about whether youth settings are kept open , but , in terms of the direct support from welsh government , can organisations that receive it rely on that through this time ? kirsty williams am : no formal decision has been made , but if people are in receipt of a government grant from my department to run a service and that service can no longer run because of the public— helen mary jones am : because it 's not safe . kirsty williams am : —because it 's not safe to do so , i do not foresee that we will be turning around and saying , 'we 'll have our money back , thank you very much . ' lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . helen mary jones am : that will make a lot of people happy , thank you . [ laughter . ] kirsty williams am : as i said , we are facing unprecedented circumstances . the normal rules of engagement have to change and , those organisations , we 'll need them to be providing youth services for children when we are back to normal , and we would n't want to do anything that would undermine their ability to do that . our call to the youth service is a call to arms , though . when we 're trying to maintain services for vulnerable children and for front-line staff children , they have a valuable role to play and i know that local government and the council for wales of voluntary youth services are already in discussion about how youth services— . many of our youth services work on an outreach basis . those traditional youth clubs , because of austerity , are not necessarily there anymore , so they are well used to being out and about and doing outreach work , and they will have an important part to play in the services that we talked about earlier . helen mary jones am : thank you . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . hefin , briefly , and then we 're going to take one final question from suzy on emergency legislation . hefin david am : all right . i 'll declare an interest as a parent of a child with additional learning needs , although the question i 'm about to ask does n't reflect her interests . additional learning needs pupils who are waiting outcomes of referrals—if they 're currently waiting an outcome of a referral , will that process will be suspended or will it continue as normal ? and , if it is suspended , will it pick up where it left off from this point ? kirsty williams am : i think we have to recognise that the ability to deliver business as usual has been massively compromised . i 'm sure people will try and continue to do their normal activities and their normal jobs , but that might not be possible . i will have to check that , hefin , to be honest . i do n't want to give you any false assurance if , actually , the intelligence on the ground is that that simply will not be able to happen . but we don't— hefin david am : can we have a clear line on that ? kirsty williams am : we do n't want to jeopardise anybody , but as i said , some of the normal services are simply not available as everybody turns their attention to trying to respond to the pandemic . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . final question—because i know that the minister 's got a lot of things that she needs to get on with—from suzy on emergency legislation . suzy davies am : i 'm not going to ask you if you 'll use any powers you get under the emergency legislation , but are you able to give us some indication of what they might be ? kirsty williams am : sure . for instance , the bill will provide welsh ministers with powers to temporarily close schools or other educational institutions , childcare premises ; powers to give temporary continuity direction—so , actually , the other way around , force things to be open—and to be able to direct resources . so , that includes , as i said , i could direct something to stay open if that institution was trying to close down . the powers also give flexibility to maybe be able to direct staff to other institutions that they would not normally work in , if that was part of our resilience needs . we 'd also be looking at , for instance , relaxing requirements around ratios in childcare settings , or we might be wanting to do things around food . so , obviously , we have rules around the level of nutrition that schools should be giving their children . if there is a continuing role for schools in providing food , we might have to be a bit more flexible about what that might look like . so , those kinds of flexibilities—to be able to suspend things , direct things—that we would not normally have in normal circumstances . suzy davies am : okay . and just to finish this one off—you may not be able to answer this one , in all fairness—in those situations where it 's the government who says 'no ' to various things , does that then help people in the situation of dawn 's nursery , and insurance claims suddenly become more likely ? kirsty williams am : i 'm not an expert on insurance , and i do n't know if anybody here can help me . but what my understanding is , is that even where government has given a direction that does not necessarily mean that you will be covered by your insurance . what we 're finding in the private sector is that insurance companies are not paying out , because even when a government has directed it , they do not regard this as a disruption to business . so , the insurance industry is not my area of expertise . suzy davies am : no , no , i accept that . kirsty williams am : it 's not my area of expertise , but from what i understand from discussions around the cabinet table , this is particularly problematic . let me give you an example about how we 've been trying to overcome some of this—it feels like an awfully long time ago now— you 'll be aware that we gave directions earlier around cancellation of school trips abroad . trying to make sure that that direction came from the foreign and commonwealth office , rather than the department for education was a real battle , because again there were fears that , unless that advice came from the foreign and commonwealth office , insurance would not kick in , and that was a two-day discussion . suzy davies am : okay . this is helpful to know , actually . kirsty williams am : so , these are the kinds of things that we 're grappling with . but , as i said , thinking about it , that was only last week , but it feels like an aeon ago . suzy davies am : i 'm not holding you to that , but it helps us manage the questions we get asked . kirsty williams am : yes , but as i said , insurance is not my area of expertise . suzy davies am : no , but thank you for answering . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about policies and measures related to free-school-meal children during the pandemic . </s> suzy davies am : okay . the second part of my question is : there were going to be easter holidays anyway , were n't there ? what was going to happen about free-school-meal children during that period ? has that gone out of the window now , the normal holiday provision for children ? because that 's not there normally , is it , except in separate— kirsty williams am : we do find ourselves in a strange situation . my understanding is what we 're trying to work to is that we would have ongoing provision and not to make some strange , 'you get this for two weeks , then you do n't get it for two weeks , and then you 're back in . ' my understanding is , in england , that is what they 're going to do . we 're trying to create a system where it will be seamless and it will not necessarily matter that two of those weeks were formally holidays . it wo n't matter to those nurses and doctors who will need to be in work during those weeks . we 're trying to create a system that will run uniformly . that 's our policy goal at the moment . lynne neagle am : helen mary . helen mary jones am : just briefly , building on suzy 's question , one particular group of children and young people that i hope will be eligible to be included in the potentially vulnerable category is young carers . for some of them , they may not be able to come into school because the people they 're caring for may have to be excluded because of their conditions . but i think that , for other young carers , coming to school is an absolute lifeline , because they 're working at home . so , i do n't know if it 's appropriate for you to specifically mention those in discussions with local authorities , but it 's a group of young people who , again , may not be vulnerable in other ways , but because of their caring responsibilities they may need school . and the other group—and this , i suppose , goes back to suzy 's point about teachers knowing their young people—is the children who may be living in situations where they 're at risk of witnessing domestic abuse . again , these may very well not be children who are in any formal contact with social services , but being at home may be really not a good place for them to be . so , again , i 'd put in an appeal for that to be something that perhaps can be raised with schools . if a teacher is worried about what a child 's circumstances are like at home , whether they can be , as you said , kirsty , included as one of the— . they may not be formally identified , but if the teacher knows that they 're at risk , or there is an instinct that they 're at risk , they might be able to be included in children who are allowed to take advantage of this special provision you 're making at this difficult time . kirsty williams am : we will certainly raise those issues . we have to do that in the context of what is deliverable , and we also have to do that in the context of the public health advice that we are receiving as well . one of the reasons why schools are closing is to help manage this disease . we know that the ability for school closures to make a contribution to that diminishes if we have significant children in school still . so , we will take these issues into consideration , but remembering this is part of an epidemic mitigation plan . rob is the expert on that , not me . rob orford : yes , absolutely . this is a rapidly-evolving problem and the scale is something that we have n't seen in 100 years , and so we 're having to evolve and iterate things as we go . next week , i think , will look different to this week . so , it kind of is what it is . we 've all got a role to play , and schools certainly have a significant role to play in breaking those chains of transmission . areas that we 're worried about are displacement activities . if we close the schools , then people collect at others ' houses . we need to send a really clear message that you 're all part of the solution , and the things that you do by distancing yourselves from your friends and your family are really important for us to get on top of this outbreak . the more that we can do that , the easier it will be when we go forward . helen mary jones am : i 'm sure that that 's true , but i 'm sure that we would n't be wanting a child who 's in a very pressured environment with perhaps a very difficult relationship between mum and dad— . it may be very important for those children to be out of that for some of the time . hopefully , we 're talking about relatively small numbers , but i just— . kirsty williams am : we will look at vulnerability in a holistic way . lynne neagle am : janet , you had a supplementary . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair , and good morning , minister , and your team . can i just put on record my thanks for all that you 're having to endure at this moment ? i think it 's fair to say you have the support of assembly members and , indeed , our communities . now , the question i have : if cylch meithrin have to close , where will they get money from to pay their staff ? because , currently , thankfully , there 's support for businesses . lynne neagle am : janet , we 're not doing cylch meithrin at the moment ; we are sticking with schools , as we discussed in advance . dawn . dawn bowden am : can i just get some clarity , steve , around what you were saying in terms of next week ? because i think the practical applications of this—and i understand that you do n't know all of this yet , i understand that—the practical applications are what is coming to us , obviously , with constituents saying , 'well , what 's going to happen to that ? ' just so that i can be clear , are you saying that , at this stage , every headteacher will be in school on monday , as will all their staff ? steve davies : within the scope of the guidance in terms of their health , the expectation—and this will be conveyed in letters by the minister today , to be made clear—is that they are closing for the majority of pupils , but our expectation within the guidance is that the headteacher with their staff will be coming in ; for some to start the delivery of what we just described , but that will probably be small numbers , but more importantly to plan to ensure that , after the formal easter period , which is school holidays , the schools are geared to cater for the range of pupils that we 've been discussing . dawn bowden am : so , would you anticipate—again , i know this is all a bit 'if and when ' , and it depends on the changing nature of the advice , but from what you 're saying , i think we can probably anticipate that , as we go forward , there will probably be fewer schools opening and operable—that we may be moving those children on to fewer sites . would that possibly— ? kirsty williams am : that is a potential . so , we already know that one of our local authorities already has identified a strategic pattern of schools that they will want to operate in this way . that local authority has already chosen those locations , and is already having communications with how they will then staff those centres . so , that could well— . that , i expect , in the longer term , will be the nature of the provision that we will get to . but that 's not for us to dictate . the local authorities are best placed to understand what is the best , pragmatic use of the resources that they have available ; and of course those resources , primarily , are human beings . so , we 've talked a lot this morning in the context of teaching staff , teaching assistants , but we 're also having discussions with local authorities , and i met with the council for wales of voluntary youth services this week , to look at deploying youth workers , to look to be deploying other staff that the local authority may employ , like sports development officers . there may be cultural officers that can have something to offer . welsh government will be talking with a range of our partners who perhaps their normal activities ca n't continue at the moment , but actually have personnel who want to add to this effort , who want to be able to be part of a provision going forward in the longer term , to be able to provide a great place for children to be . we want to give parents , who we are asking— . let 's think about it , in these worst of times , we 're asking parents to leave their children so that they can go and do essential work , and some of that essential work is putting themselves at risk , potentially . and we want to give those parents confidence that , when they leave their child with us , that child will receive something really worthwhile , and they can direct all of their attention to doing their job . lynne neagle am : just before you— . janet , have you got a supplementary on schools now , not on early years settings ? janet finch-saunders am : i lost the signal before , so it 's a little bit confusing at this end , so bear with me . just in terms of the closure of schools , i have been asked by teachers what does new purpose—you may have covered it , but bear in mind [ inaudible . ] —mean in practice . and also , they 're already asking what will next— ? i know you said earlier that next week could look and probably will look significantly different than this week , but what can they expect to be happening next week in terms of this new purpose work ? lynne neagle am : we 've covered that , janet . kirsty williams am : first of all , janet , i just want to say thank you very much for your kind comments . that 's really , really kind of you . we will be sending a letter today to clarify those positions . so , each school will receive letters today about the expectations of schools next week . lynne neagle am : i think you 're having trouble hearing us , are n't you , so i think— ? janet finch-saunders am : no , i heard that loud and clear . lynne neagle am : but i think you missed the earlier comments , when we went into some detail on the new purpose of schools . so , i 'm sorry about that ; we are having some problems with the connection . janet finch-saunders am : yes , we could n't get a signal . dawn bowden am : just in relation to special schools and how they will fit into this new purpose arrangement . kirsty williams am : yes , they 're absolutely central to that planning . we know , again , that some of these children are our most vulnerable and they are some of our most pressurised families . therefore , the same situation that we 've just described for maintained schools also applies to special schools . we 'll be having discussions about what arrangements can be made for those children within their own usual settings . in some cases , that may not be possible . so , again , already local authorities are making different provision . can i give a shout out to the work of rhondda cynon taf in this regard , who are already doing some excellent work with regard to how they can keep in touch with their children who usually would attend their special schools . but , again , steve can give more detail . </s>
<s> what were the measures concerning the normal holiday provision for children ? </s> suzy davies am : okay . the second part of my question is : there were going to be easter holidays anyway , were n't there ? what was going to happen about free-school-meal children during that period ? has that gone out of the window now , the normal holiday provision for children ? because that 's not there normally , is it , except in separate— kirsty williams am : we do find ourselves in a strange situation . my understanding is what we 're trying to work to is that we would have ongoing provision and not to make some strange , 'you get this for two weeks , then you do n't get it for two weeks , and then you 're back in . ' my understanding is , in england , that is what they 're going to do . we 're trying to create a system where it will be seamless and it will not necessarily matter that two of those weeks were formally holidays . it wo n't matter to those nurses and doctors who will need to be in work during those weeks . we 're trying to create a system that will run uniformly . that 's our policy goal at the moment . lynne neagle am : helen mary . helen mary jones am : just briefly , building on suzy 's question , one particular group of children and young people that i hope will be eligible to be included in the potentially vulnerable category is young carers . for some of them , they may not be able to come into school because the people they 're caring for may have to be excluded because of their conditions . but i think that , for other young carers , coming to school is an absolute lifeline , because they 're working at home . so , i do n't know if it 's appropriate for you to specifically mention those in discussions with local authorities , but it 's a group of young people who , again , may not be vulnerable in other ways , but because of their caring responsibilities they may need school . and the other group—and this , i suppose , goes back to suzy 's point about teachers knowing their young people—is the children who may be living in situations where they 're at risk of witnessing domestic abuse . again , these may very well not be children who are in any formal contact with social services , but being at home may be really not a good place for them to be . so , again , i 'd put in an appeal for that to be something that perhaps can be raised with schools . if a teacher is worried about what a child 's circumstances are like at home , whether they can be , as you said , kirsty , included as one of the— . they may not be formally identified , but if the teacher knows that they 're at risk , or there is an instinct that they 're at risk , they might be able to be included in children who are allowed to take advantage of this special provision you 're making at this difficult time . kirsty williams am : we will certainly raise those issues . we have to do that in the context of what is deliverable , and we also have to do that in the context of the public health advice that we are receiving as well . one of the reasons why schools are closing is to help manage this disease . we know that the ability for school closures to make a contribution to that diminishes if we have significant children in school still . so , we will take these issues into consideration , but remembering this is part of an epidemic mitigation plan . rob is the expert on that , not me . rob orford : yes , absolutely . this is a rapidly-evolving problem and the scale is something that we have n't seen in 100 years , and so we 're having to evolve and iterate things as we go . next week , i think , will look different to this week . so , it kind of is what it is . we 've all got a role to play , and schools certainly have a significant role to play in breaking those chains of transmission . areas that we 're worried about are displacement activities . if we close the schools , then people collect at others ' houses . we need to send a really clear message that you 're all part of the solution , and the things that you do by distancing yourselves from your friends and your family are really important for us to get on top of this outbreak . the more that we can do that , the easier it will be when we go forward . helen mary jones am : i 'm sure that that 's true , but i 'm sure that we would n't be wanting a child who 's in a very pressured environment with perhaps a very difficult relationship between mum and dad— . it may be very important for those children to be out of that for some of the time . hopefully , we 're talking about relatively small numbers , but i just— . kirsty williams am : we will look at vulnerability in a holistic way . lynne neagle am : janet , you had a supplementary . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , chair , and good morning , minister , and your team . can i just put on record my thanks for all that you 're having to endure at this moment ? i think it 's fair to say you have the support of assembly members and , indeed , our communities . now , the question i have : if cylch meithrin have to close , where will they get money from to pay their staff ? because , currently , thankfully , there 's support for businesses . lynne neagle am : janet , we 're not doing cylch meithrin at the moment ; we are sticking with schools , as we discussed in advance . dawn . dawn bowden am : can i just get some clarity , steve , around what you were saying in terms of next week ? because i think the practical applications of this—and i understand that you do n't know all of this yet , i understand that—the practical applications are what is coming to us , obviously , with constituents saying , 'well , what 's going to happen to that ? ' just so that i can be clear , are you saying that , at this stage , every headteacher will be in school on monday , as will all their staff ? </s>
<s> would that be possible that they might move children on to fewer sites ? </s> dawn bowden am : so , would you anticipate—again , i know this is all a bit 'if and when ' , and it depends on the changing nature of the advice , but from what you 're saying , i think we can probably anticipate that , as we go forward , there will probably be fewer schools opening and operable—that we may be moving those children on to fewer sites . would that possibly— ? kirsty williams am : that is a potential . so , we already know that one of our local authorities already has identified a strategic pattern of schools that they will want to operate in this way . that local authority has already chosen those locations , and is already having communications with how they will then staff those centres . so , that could well— . that , i expect , in the longer term , will be the nature of the provision that we will get to . but that 's not for us to dictate . the local authorities are best placed to understand what is the best , pragmatic use of the resources that they have available ; and of course those resources , primarily , are human beings . so , we 've talked a lot this morning in the context of teaching staff , teaching assistants , but we 're also having discussions with local authorities , and i met with the council for wales of voluntary youth services this week , to look at deploying youth workers , to look to be deploying other staff that the local authority may employ , like sports development officers . there may be cultural officers that can have something to offer . welsh government will be talking with a range of our partners who perhaps their normal activities ca n't continue at the moment , but actually have personnel who want to add to this effort , who want to be able to be part of a provision going forward in the longer term , to be able to provide a great place for children to be . we want to give parents , who we are asking— . let 's think about it , in these worst of times , we 're asking parents to leave their children so that they can go and do essential work , and some of that essential work is putting themselves at risk , potentially . and we want to give those parents confidence that , when they leave their child with us , that child will receive something really worthwhile , and they can direct all of their attention to doing their job . lynne neagle am : just before you— . janet , have you got a supplementary on schools now , not on early years settings ? janet finch-saunders am : i lost the signal before , so it 's a little bit confusing at this end , so bear with me . just in terms of the closure of schools , i have been asked by teachers what does new purpose—you may have covered it , but bear in mind [ inaudible . ] —mean in practice . and also , they 're already asking what will next— ? i know you said earlier that next week could look and probably will look significantly different than this week , but what can they expect to be happening next week in terms of this new purpose work ? lynne neagle am : we 've covered that , janet . kirsty williams am : first of all , janet , i just want to say thank you very much for your kind comments . that 's really , really kind of you . we will be sending a letter today to clarify those positions . so , each school will receive letters today about the expectations of schools next week . lynne neagle am : i think you 're having trouble hearing us , are n't you , so i think— ? janet finch-saunders am : no , i heard that loud and clear . lynne neagle am : but i think you missed the earlier comments , when we went into some detail on the new purpose of schools . so , i 'm sorry about that ; we are having some problems with the connection . janet finch-saunders am : yes , we could n't get a signal . </s>
<s> how would special schools fit into the new purpose arrangement ? </s> kirsty williams am : yes , they 're absolutely central to that planning . we know , again , that some of these children are our most vulnerable and they are some of our most pressurised families . therefore , the same situation that we 've just described for maintained schools also applies to special schools . we 'll be having discussions about what arrangements can be made for those children within their own usual settings . in some cases , that may not be possible . so , again , already local authorities are making different provision . can i give a shout out to the work of rhondda cynon taf in this regard , who are already doing some excellent work with regard to how they can keep in touch with their children who usually would attend their special schools . but , again , steve can give more detail . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about ideas about timescales for setting out what approach would be to handling the lack of exams . </s> lynne neagle am : if we can move on to talk about exams , obviously you made the announcement yesterday . i completely understand that everything is a very fast-moving situation , but , as you know , there are a lot of questions that people have about young people who 've put a lot of work in . are you able to tell us any more today ? in particular , have you got any idea about timescales now for setting out what the approach will be to handling the lack of summer exams ? kirsty williams am : yes , it is a devastating decision to have to have been taken , but i have done so on the very , very clear and unambiguous advice from qualifications wales . i met with qualifications wales and the wjec yesterday . what was most important to them was that i made an early decision and i did not equivocate on what would happen for the exams . i was able to make an informal decision at that meeting , and then , of course , there is a formal process that we have to go through . that , now , allows qualifications wales and the exam board to operationalise that decision , and they will be communicating with schools as quickly as possible about what schools will need to do to ensure that the systems that they will now put in place can work . we are trying , as far as we can , as i understand it , to be able to mirror as closely as possible the usual results day , for instance . it might not be possible , because , of course , we 're dealing with a situation that requires human beings to be involved in it , and those human beings could find themselves unwell . so , our best attempts will be to maintain the normal rhythm of an exams day in august , but that has to be caveated by the fact that we 're dealing with difficult circumstances . but , the wjec and qualifications wales will be making urgent communications to exam centres to explain what will need to happen next . lynne neagle am : okay . janet , you had a question on this . janet finch-saunders am : yes , i think i raised it yesterday , kirsty , but you were receiving loads of questions . i 'd just ask for some further clarification about coursework , because only 30 per cent of that is done . years 11 and 13 , typically , in my case they 're what 's been raised with me—do you have any advice for them ? kirsty williams am : okay , so , all exams are cancelled , but year 11 and year 13 will be given a grade—i think that 's a distinction that people need to be aware of . that is because those years and those grades are gateway qualifications , and they are points of movement in the education system . so , it 's really important for those students that they are not disadvantaged in any way by not being able to receive a grade that helps them to make a decision as a qualifying step into what they will do next , whether that be university , whether that be a degree apprenticeship or whether that be going into sixth form , into a college , into an apprenticeship or into some work-based learning opportunities . that 's why we have to focus on those children , because for them , it is absolutely critical that we do . we are at an advantage in wales , can i say ? because of the nature of our examination system , those students already have a lot of externally assessed work that we can use as a basis to move forward on . because we 've kept our as-levels , we have got that data . because we have a gcse system— . our year 11s , if they 're doing triple science , they 've already done 40 per cent of their paper , so we 're very fortunate . because of the structures that we have got in our qualification system , there is already lots and lots of externally-verified work that we can use , alongside , potentially , teacher evaluation of students as well . and i think that 's really important . we ’ re starting from a better base than simply having none of that externally-verified data . what will also be important is that these children have confidence in those qualifications , and so we will be looking at a modulated arrangement within wales , and i know that qualifications wales are discussing with their counterparts across the uk a modulated system across the uk . so , actually , we can make sure that our standards are maintained by actually having that modulation across the uk . so , we know that those children never have to worry about the rigour that has gone into determining that grade . so , they can have real confidence . lynne neagle am : okay . helen mary . helen mary jones am : thank you . a supplementary question that might feed into that moderation . you 'll know that the national union of students has suggested that black and minority ethnic children and children from the working class , on the whole , do n't do as well , in terms of their assessment by their own teachers . i do n't know what their evidence is for that . we also know , of course , that boys tend to do better in exams , and girls tend to do better at coursework , for whatever reason that is . so , just to ask you at this early stage to build in those considerations around potential unconscious bias into that overall system that you 're talking about . and , of course , you are right to say that , because we have got some elements of external moderation here , those factors may be less for us in wales than they might for colleagues in england . kirsty williams am : yes , i think we are starting at a different base , thank goodness . so , you 're quite right . as i said , students will have done unit 1 papers last year if they 're gcse students . dare i say it , some might even have done early entry . so , we still have elements of coursework that are externally verified . so , children might well have done lots of oral exams in their english and in their welsh language . so , we have lots of pieces of work that will have been externally verified . i certainly will ensure that these concerns are passed on . i 'm sure that qualifications wales are thinking about it . i have every confidence that they and the wjec will come up with a very comprehensive way of establishing those grades , but i have to say , in some ways , i have to step back now , because you would not expect me , in normal circumstances , to dictate to the wjec how much percentage goes for that , and how much percentage is allocated for that ; that would not be appropriate for a minister . my job is to make the decision on the examinations on the basis of having confidence that what can be put in place is fair and is equitable , and i have confidence that that will be the case . helen mary jones am : thank you . suzy davies am : a few things from me . one is , obviously , pupils are being asked to work at home as well now , some of whom will be doing gcse and a-level courses . so , there 's just a question , generally , from me— because we 're encouraging these kids to carry on working—how that will be accommodated by qualifications wales , i guess , in this modulation process . it may be that your at-home work will be of a higher standard or a lower standard than a teacher would be expecting . secondly , you mentioned the as-levels , of course , as being of value at the moment , but we 've got people in year 12 who now wo n't be doing their ass . is there any steer at this stage about what they will be expected to do ? will they be doing two sets of exams next year , for example ? or is as just off the table ? in which case , how are the a2s going to be calculated in due course ? and then , finally from me , we do have some vocational qualifications that are up for examination as well—your btecs , and i think it 's the association of accounting technicians , which is a lot of computer-based learning—which is due to be examined within three weeks . those aren ’ t a-levels or gcses . i appreciate that you may not have the answer just at the moment , but are they off as well is the question , i guess ? kirsty williams am : with regard to as-levels—no final decision has been made for exactly how those students will be treated . there are a range of options that could be used , but again , we will want to be thinking about student well-being , fairness and equity in that regard , and i will update members as soon as i have received definitive advice from qualifications wales around that , and that has n't happened yet . with regard to other types of qualifications , as you will be aware , the vast majority of btecs is a modular , continually-assessed piece of work , and we would have every expectation that btecs will be able to be awarded , but clearly , those conversations are with awarding bodies—they tend to be uk awarding bodies , rather then necessarily our wjec exam board—and those conversations are ongoing . but i have every expectation that those qualifications will be awarded and , of course , because of their nature there 's even more evidence of continued assessment . huw , i do n't know if there 's anything else that you would like to add about those types of qualifications . huw morris : no . i think you 've covered most of it . i do n't have a definitive answer for the att qualification , but we can look into that and come back to you . suzy davies am : well , i 've just had a constituent ask , so that would be very helpful . and homeworking— kirsty williams am : homeworking , right . suzy davies am : —is that going to count towards the assessments , overall assessments ? kirsty williams am : well , potentially , as i said . i do n't know the exact elements . what will be absolutely necessary is that qualifications wales and the wjec will be able to give absolute clarity and simplicity around how those grades will be arrived at , because parents , teachers and students will want to know that , and my expectation is on them to be able to clearly communicate what elements will and will not be taken into consideration when awarding those grades . suzy davies am : that 's great . at least we covered it . thank you , minister—thank you , kirsty . lynne neagle am : and , just before we move on , have the universities across the uk indicated that they are content with this approach going forward—content to accept students on this basis ? kirsty williams am : certainly . there have been discussions with universities and ucas , of course , that this also has a bearing on . one of the— . and the views of university and how university terms might be impacted is one of the ways and one of the reasons that we 've factored in to making these decisions . those discussions with universities are ongoing , are n't they , huw ? </s>
<s> what was the further clarification and advice about coursework ? </s> janet finch-saunders am : yes , i think i raised it yesterday , kirsty , but you were receiving loads of questions . i 'd just ask for some further clarification about coursework , because only 30 per cent of that is done . years 11 and 13 , typically , in my case they 're what 's been raised with me—do you have any advice for them ? </s>
<s> what 's specific about the elements of coursework that were externally verified ? </s> helen mary jones am : thank you . a supplementary question that might feed into that moderation . you 'll know that the national union of students has suggested that black and minority ethnic children and children from the working class , on the whole , do n't do as well , in terms of their assessment by their own teachers . i do n't know what their evidence is for that . we also know , of course , that boys tend to do better in exams , and girls tend to do better at coursework , for whatever reason that is . so , just to ask you at this early stage to build in those considerations around potential unconscious bias into that overall system that you 're talking about . and , of course , you are right to say that , because we have got some elements of external moderation here , those factors may be less for us in wales than they might for colleagues in england . </s>
<s> had the universities across the uk indicated that they were content with the approach going forward ? </s> lynne neagle am : and , just before we move on , have the universities across the uk indicated that they are content with this approach going forward—content to accept students on this basis ? kirsty williams am : certainly . there have been discussions with universities and ucas , of course , that this also has a bearing on . one of the— . and the views of university and how university terms might be impacted is one of the ways and one of the reasons that we 've factored in to making these decisions . those discussions with universities are ongoing , are n't they , huw ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about issues related to the potential closures of colleges and universities . </s> lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . well , we 've got some questions now from suzy on the potential closures of colleges and universities . suzy davies am : okay . well , it 's a very general question , really . i appreciate you 've already indicated there are lots of ongoing conversations , but my understanding is whether colleges or universities close is pretty much still at their own discretion . we 're going to be asking some questions on emergency legislation shortly , which may impact on the answer you can give today , but what sort of conversations are you having with fe and he at the moment about how they decide ? kirsty williams am : well , you 're absolutely right . as we often say in this committee , universities are autonomous institutions—a status that they guard jealously and we would never want to question . universities have been making the decision to move as much of their learning online as they possibly can and we continue to have conversations with them . colleges are in a similar position , looking to do as much as they can to be able to provide continuity of learning via distance learning methods , and the bill , potentially , does give us more powers of intervention in both the fe and the he sector . suzy davies am : i might ask you about that in a minute , because i do n't even know what the bill says yet . kirsty williams am : huw , i do n't know if there 's anything you want to add . huw morris : no—just to confirm what 's been said and also to add in that independent training providers , similarly autonomous , like colleges and universities , have been moving in the same direction . we 've been very impressed with the maturity and forward-planning that 's been adopted by all of those institutions and their representative bodies . we 've got consistency in the approach and a common desire , and investment in moving towards online support for students . suzy davies am : and there 's still this safety net idea . certainly , colleges have indicated , as with schools , that , for the most vulnerable learners , they 'll have something in place that might permit attendance on an individual basis . huw morris : that 's my understanding , yes , and , again , we 've been in regular conversation with them about that . my understanding is that they 're going to spend the next week working through the detail of how that will work for the institutions . suzy davies am : that 's fair enough . and , presumably , education maintenance allowance will still be paid . kirsty williams am : yes . arrangements have been made to ensure that ema continues to be paid to all students who are entitled . suzy davies am : that 's right . you indicated that any welsh government support 's going to stay , whatever the circumstances are—in your portfolio . kirsty williams am : yes . i 'm doing my best , but it 's an absolute yes on the ema . there will be no disruption to ema . suzy davies am : okay . you might get some further questions on he and fe . lynne neagle am : yes . we 've got some further questions , indeed , from helen mary and then hefin . helen mary jones am : now or in a bit ? just further to ema , of course , at the moment , that has an attendance qualification , does n't it ? and you do n't get your ema if you do n't turn up . should we take from your last answer that that attendance qualification does n't apply anymore ? kirsty williams am : yes . they ca n't turn up if the institution is not open , and that 's not their fault . helen mary jones am : no , but that is something that 's been a worry , so that 's really encouraging to hear . thinking about students in higher education , can you give an assurance that student maintenance payments will continue as normal ? is that the intention ? that 's really good to hear . and have you given any special ministerial instruction to student finance wales on processing applications for support or changes of circumstances , or is that something that 's kind of ongoing at the moment ? kirsty williams am : those conversations are ongoing with the student loans company . as i said , we anticipate no disruption to— . we do n't anticipate any change in the approach to students as a result of this . individual student circumstances could well change and our expectation would be that the student loans company would respond to that . all i would say is , just to remind people : people who work for the student loans company are no more able to resist this disease than anybody else . there will undoubtedly in some cases be really practical challenges to service delivery , simply because organisations could be losing staff because of illness or the need to self-isolate or because they are reacting to social-distancing messages from the government . so , i think we just need to bear that in mind : that these organisations are doing their best , but , if they are badly affected by staff numbers being off because of the virus , then i hope people will give them due consideration . helen mary jones am : yes , that makes sense , of course , because we 've been told that universities wo n't be able to entirely close , because there will be students who ca n't go home— kirsty williams am : it is their home . helen mary jones am : —overseas students , for example . what discussions have you been having with the sector to make sure that those students ' basic needs are met , that there 's still food , shelter , whatever they need ? kirsty williams am : well , obviously , universities have a duty of care to those students that find themselves in those circumstances , and every conversation that huw 's been having would suggest that universities are well aware of their need to do that . huw morris : we instituted a monitoring process very early on in the onset of the disease , not least because a number of institutions have campuses and activities in china and other parts of south-east asia . and so , as the disease has progressed , we 've seen lessons being learned from the support for students who are in isolation coming from there to the uk , and i am assured that the universities here in wales have got processes in place that support those learners . helen mary jones am : that 's really helpful . and on this specifically—last question from me— have you considered whether students might need to be refunded some of their tuition fees , should the academic year not be completed ? huw morris : so , as the institutions move more and more of their material and some of their assessment online , clearly , there are lessons that will need to be taken on board . there are established quality assurance and enhancement procedures in institutions to enable the tutors and other supporters to make sure that that material meets their needs . the intention in all of these institutions is that they will complete their course of study . there are appeals mechanisms and feedback mechanisms through the students union and through course committees and other things within institutions to make sure that any concerns or incomplete work are addressed . failing those institutional mechanisms , there is a uk-wide system through the office of the independent adjudicator for students to take forward any concerns that they have . so , we 're confident that that system will be robust and will make sure that the students are getting a course of learning that meets their needs . lynne neagle am : okay . suzy , you had a supplementary . suzy davies am : no , mr morris has answered my question . </s>
<s> what sort of conversations were they having with fe and he at the moment about how they decide the closures ? </s> suzy davies am : okay . well , it 's a very general question , really . i appreciate you 've already indicated there are lots of ongoing conversations , but my understanding is whether colleges or universities close is pretty much still at their own discretion . we 're going to be asking some questions on emergency legislation shortly , which may impact on the answer you can give today , but what sort of conversations are you having with fe and he at the moment about how they decide ? kirsty williams am : well , you 're absolutely right . as we often say in this committee , universities are autonomous institutions—a status that they guard jealously and we would never want to question . universities have been making the decision to move as much of their learning online as they possibly can and we continue to have conversations with them . colleges are in a similar position , looking to do as much as they can to be able to provide continuity of learning via distance learning methods , and the bill , potentially , does give us more powers of intervention in both the fe and the he sector . suzy davies am : i might ask you about that in a minute , because i do n't even know what the bill says yet . kirsty williams am : huw , i do n't know if there 's anything you want to add . huw morris : no—just to confirm what 's been said and also to add in that independent training providers , similarly autonomous , like colleges and universities , have been moving in the same direction . we 've been very impressed with the maturity and forward-planning that 's been adopted by all of those institutions and their representative bodies . we 've got consistency in the approach and a common desire , and investment in moving towards online support for students . suzy davies am : and there 's still this safety net idea . certainly , colleges have indicated , as with schools , that , for the most vulnerable learners , they 'll have something in place that might permit attendance on an individual basis . huw morris : that 's my understanding , yes , and , again , we 've been in regular conversation with them about that . my understanding is that they 're going to spend the next week working through the detail of how that will work for the institutions . suzy davies am : that 's fair enough . and , presumably , education maintenance allowance will still be paid . kirsty williams am : yes . arrangements have been made to ensure that ema continues to be paid to all students who are entitled . suzy davies am : that 's right . you indicated that any welsh government support 's going to stay , whatever the circumstances are—in your portfolio . kirsty williams am : yes . i 'm doing my best , but it 's an absolute yes on the ema . there will be no disruption to ema . </s>
<s> what were their opinions on support or changes of circumstances ? </s> helen mary jones am : that 's really good to hear . and have you given any special ministerial instruction to student finance wales on processing applications for support or changes of circumstances , or is that something that 's kind of ongoing at the moment ? kirsty williams am : those conversations are ongoing with the student loans company . as i said , we anticipate no disruption to— . we do n't anticipate any change in the approach to students as a result of this . individual student circumstances could well change and our expectation would be that the student loans company would respond to that . all i would say is , just to remind people : people who work for the student loans company are no more able to resist this disease than anybody else . there will undoubtedly in some cases be really practical challenges to service delivery , simply because organisations could be losing staff because of illness or the need to self-isolate or because they are reacting to social-distancing messages from the government . so , i think we just need to bear that in mind : that these organisations are doing their best , but , if they are badly affected by staff numbers being off because of the virus , then i hope people will give them due consideration . helen mary jones am : yes , that makes sense , of course , because we 've been told that universities wo n't be able to entirely close , because there will be students who ca n't go home— kirsty williams am : it is their home . helen mary jones am : —overseas students , for example . what discussions have you been having with the sector to make sure that those students ' basic needs are met , that there 's still food , shelter , whatever they need ? kirsty williams am : well , obviously , universities have a duty of care to those students that find themselves in those circumstances , and every conversation that huw 's been having would suggest that universities are well aware of their need to do that . </s>
<s> what 's their attitude towards the question whether students might need to be refunded some of their tuition fees ? </s> helen mary jones am : that 's really helpful . and on this specifically—last question from me— have you considered whether students might need to be refunded some of their tuition fees , should the academic year not be completed ? huw morris : so , as the institutions move more and more of their material and some of their assessment online , clearly , there are lessons that will need to be taken on board . there are established quality assurance and enhancement procedures in institutions to enable the tutors and other supporters to make sure that that material meets their needs . the intention in all of these institutions is that they will complete their course of study . there are appeals mechanisms and feedback mechanisms through the students union and through course committees and other things within institutions to make sure that any concerns or incomplete work are addressed . failing those institutional mechanisms , there is a uk-wide system through the office of the independent adjudicator for students to take forward any concerns that they have . so , we 're confident that that system will be robust and will make sure that the students are getting a course of learning that meets their needs . lynne neagle am : okay . suzy , you had a supplementary . suzy davies am : no , mr morris has answered my question . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about problems and related advices concerning vulnerable learners . </s> helen mary jones am : i think , chair , the minister has already answered what the— . but thinking just a little bit more broadly about the mental health and well-being of staff and learners across a range of educational settings , or , indeed , young people who ca n't access educational settings , what considerations are you giving to how that mental health and well-being might be supported through what is an incredibly difficult time for everyone ? kirsty williams am : yes , that is correct . so , our expectation would be that during a prolonged period of closure—which i think , if we 're honest , we have to acknowledge is what we 're looking at—we would expect school staff—well-being staff , for instance in school—to be doing check-ins—phone check-ins , potentially , or facetime check-ins , with students , just to keep in touch with them as we go forward . we 'll be looking to promote amongst young people a range of online facilities that are available—so , for instance , meic website—so , looking to use a variety of platforms . we do , of course , have the formal nhs counselling services . i 'm concerned , of course , that for some children their access to their counsellor is via their school . we know that , and we 're just double checking the capacity of online counselling that already exists—online counselling tools that children already use because they do n't want to go to the counsellor in the school and be seen in the school corridor going to the counsellor . they 're already using those online methods and we expect to be able to continue , as far as possible , those kinds of mechanisms where children can have their mental health needs and their questions answered , and their worries . i think we have to remember that this is a really worrying time for children and young people . one of the reasons , again , that we wanted to keep schools going as long as possible—and teachers have been working so hard to do that—is because that routine of going into school and that normality is one that we 've needed and wanted to maintain . children will have worries about their own health ; they 'll have worries about the health of their parents and their grandparents ; they will be consuming potentially media and news stories that have empty supermarket shelves . so , we need to understand , and i think we will also have to recognise , that this support will have to be ongoing once we 're back to normal , and we will have to continue to look to support children in the longer term who will have lived through this experience . they are incredibly resilient , and they have been the champions of some of our public health messages . they are so much better and so much more compliant on the whole 'washing your hands ' and things like that than even adults have been . so , they are incredibly resilient , but we also have to recognise that it can be a really worrying time for them . helen mary jones am : can i just— ? just a supplementary to that—you 've mentioned already , kirsty , the importance of youth services , and , particularly thinking voluntarily youth services , you 've given the commitment , when were talking about mudiad ysgolion meithrin earlier , that services that are part-funded by grants through the welsh government , for example , thinking of the national youth voluntary service—will those be able to be maintained even if settings have had to be shut as well ? obviously , local authorities will have to make their own decisions about whether youth settings are kept open , but , in terms of the direct support from welsh government , can organisations that receive it rely on that through this time ? kirsty williams am : no formal decision has been made , but if people are in receipt of a government grant from my department to run a service and that service can no longer run because of the public— helen mary jones am : because it 's not safe . kirsty williams am : —because it 's not safe to do so , i do not foresee that we will be turning around and saying , 'we 'll have our money back , thank you very much . ' lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . helen mary jones am : that will make a lot of people happy , thank you . [ laughter . ] kirsty williams am : as i said , we are facing unprecedented circumstances . the normal rules of engagement have to change and , those organisations , we 'll need them to be providing youth services for children when we are back to normal , and we would n't want to do anything that would undermine their ability to do that . our call to the youth service is a call to arms , though . when we 're trying to maintain services for vulnerable children and for front-line staff children , they have a valuable role to play and i know that local government and the council for wales of voluntary youth services are already in discussion about how youth services— . many of our youth services work on an outreach basis . those traditional youth clubs , because of austerity , are not necessarily there anymore , so they are well used to being out and about and doing outreach work , and they will have an important part to play in the services that we talked about earlier . </s>
<s> what considerations were they giving to how that mental health and well-being might be supported through what was an incredibly difficult time for everyone ? </s> helen mary jones am : i think , chair , the minister has already answered what the— . but thinking just a little bit more broadly about the mental health and well-being of staff and learners across a range of educational settings , or , indeed , young people who ca n't access educational settings , what considerations are you giving to how that mental health and well-being might be supported through what is an incredibly difficult time for everyone ? </s>
<s> why did they want to keep schools going as long as possible ? </s> kirsty williams am : yes , that is correct . so , our expectation would be that during a prolonged period of closure—which i think , if we 're honest , we have to acknowledge is what we 're looking at—we would expect school staff—well-being staff , for instance in school—to be doing check-ins—phone check-ins , potentially , or facetime check-ins , with students , just to keep in touch with them as we go forward . we 'll be looking to promote amongst young people a range of online facilities that are available—so , for instance , meic website—so , looking to use a variety of platforms . we do , of course , have the formal nhs counselling services . i 'm concerned , of course , that for some children their access to their counsellor is via their school . we know that , and we 're just double checking the capacity of online counselling that already exists—online counselling tools that children already use because they do n't want to go to the counsellor in the school and be seen in the school corridor going to the counsellor . they 're already using those online methods and we expect to be able to continue , as far as possible , those kinds of mechanisms where children can have their mental health needs and their questions answered , and their worries . i think we have to remember that this is a really worrying time for children and young people . one of the reasons , again , that we wanted to keep schools going as long as possible—and teachers have been working so hard to do that—is because that routine of going into school and that normality is one that we 've needed and wanted to maintain . children will have worries about their own health ; they 'll have worries about the health of their parents and their grandparents ; they will be consuming potentially media and news stories that have empty supermarket shelves . so , we need to understand , and i think we will also have to recognise , that this support will have to be ongoing once we 're back to normal , and we will have to continue to look to support children in the longer term who will have lived through this experience . they are incredibly resilient , and they have been the champions of some of our public health messages . they are so much better and so much more compliant on the whole 'washing your hands ' and things like that than even adults have been . so , they are incredibly resilient , but we also have to recognise that it can be a really worrying time for them . </s>
<s> with regard to the national youth voluntary service , would the support and funds be able to be maintained even if settings had to be shut as well ? </s> helen mary jones am : can i just— ? just a supplementary to that—you 've mentioned already , kirsty , the importance of youth services , and , particularly thinking voluntarily youth services , you 've given the commitment , when were talking about mudiad ysgolion meithrin earlier , that services that are part-funded by grants through the welsh government , for example , thinking of the national youth voluntary service—will those be able to be maintained even if settings have had to be shut as well ? obviously , local authorities will have to make their own decisions about whether youth settings are kept open , but , in terms of the direct support from welsh government , can organisations that receive it rely on that through this time ? kirsty williams am : no formal decision has been made , but if people are in receipt of a government grant from my department to run a service and that service can no longer run because of the public— helen mary jones am : because it 's not safe . kirsty williams am : —because it 's not safe to do so , i do not foresee that we will be turning around and saying , 'we 'll have our money back , thank you very much . ' lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . helen mary jones am : that will make a lot of people happy , thank you . [ laughter . ] kirsty williams am : as i said , we are facing unprecedented circumstances . the normal rules of engagement have to change and , those organisations , we 'll need them to be providing youth services for children when we are back to normal , and we would n't want to do anything that would undermine their ability to do that . our call to the youth service is a call to arms , though . when we 're trying to maintain services for vulnerable children and for front-line staff children , they have a valuable role to play and i know that local government and the council for wales of voluntary youth services are already in discussion about how youth services— . many of our youth services work on an outreach basis . those traditional youth clubs , because of austerity , are not necessarily there anymore , so they are well used to being out and about and doing outreach work , and they will have an important part to play in the services that we talked about earlier . </s>
<s> what was said in the meeting ? </s> grad g : how about channel professor c : yeah , go ahead . grad e : we 're recording . grad g : alright . professor c : alright , and no crash . grad e : i pre - crashed it . professor c : yeah . phd f : pre - crashed ! phd d : it never crashes on me . grad e : i think it 's actually phd d : what is what is that ? grad e : it depends on if the temp files are there or not , that at least that 's my current working hypothesis , that i think what happens is it tries to clear the temp files and if they 're too big , it crashes . phd b : when the power went out the other day and i restarted it , it crashed the first time . grad e : oh , that 's right . phd b : after the power out phd d : so then there would be no temp files . professor c : yeah . phd d : ok . { comment } hmm . grad e : uh , no , it does n't it does n't clear those necessarily , phd d : oh wait it it does n't clear them , ok . professor c : hmm , no connection . grad e : it 's i they 're called temp files , but they 're not actually in the temp directory they 're in the scratch , so . they 're not backed up , but they 're not erased either on power failure . phd d : but that 's usually the meeting that i recorded , and it neve it does n't crash on me . phd b : well this was n't actually , this was n't a before your meeting , this was , um , tuesday afternoon when , um , uh , robert just wanted to do a little recording , grad e : oh well . phd d : oh oh , right . phd b : and the power had gone out earlier in the day . phd d : ok . huh , ok . professor c : i do n't know when would be a good excuse for it , but i just ca n't wait to be giving a talk t and and and use the example from last week with everybody t doing the digits at once . grad e : yeah . postdoc a : that was fun . professor c : i 'd love to play somebody that . postdoc a : that was fun . phd d : it was quick . professor c : it was . it was really efficient . phd b : talk about a good noise shield . you know ? you wanted to pe keep people from listening in , you could like have that playing outside the room . nobody could listen in . professor c : yeah . phd d : well , i had this idea we could make our whole meeting faster that way . professor c : yeah . everybody give the reports about what they were doing at exactly the same time , phd d : and we 'll just all leave , phd b : and then we 'll we 'll go back later and review the individual channels , professor c : yeah . phd d : and grad e : yep , and then everyone can listen to it later . phd b : right ? grad e : yes . absolutely . phd b : if you wan na know what professor c : actually is n't that what we have been doing ? phd d : yeah . grad e : it 's what it sounds like . phd b : practically , huh . with all the overlaps . postdoc a : yeah . professor c : what are we doing ? grad e : i since i 've been gone all week , i did n't send out a reminder for an agenda , so . professor c : yeah , and i 'm just grad e : do we have anything to talk about or should we just read digits and go ? phd b : i would n't mind hearing how the conference was . professor c : what conference ? phd d : uh , i had one question about grad e : yeah , really . it 's all a blur . phd d : are n't the uw folks coming this weekend ? phd f : no . the next , phd d : next weekend ? grad e : next weekend , week from phd f : right ? professor c : that is right . the next weekend . phd d : sorry , not not not the days coming up , but phd f : it 's like the grad e : a week from saturday . phd d : yeah , professor c : that 's when they 're coming . phd d : within ten days . professor c : that 's correct . phd d : so , are we do we have like an agenda or anything that we should be professor c : no , but that would be a good idea . why do n't we w phd f : so so the deal is that i can , um , uh , i can be available after , uh , like ten thirty or something . i do n't know how s how early you wanted to professor c : they 're not even gon na be here until eleven or so . grad e : that 's good . phd f : oh , ok . so professor c : cuz they 're flying up that day . phd d : wait , this is on on sunday ? professor c : saturday . phd d : or saturday ? professor c : saturday . phd f : saturday . professor c : s saturday . grad e : well , y professor c : yeah . phd f : mm - hmm . grad e : eurospeech is due on friday and then i 'm going down to san uh , san jose friday night , so , if you know , if we start nice and late saturday that 's a good thing . professor c : no , i mean , they 're flying up from from grad e : seattle . professor c : down from seattle . grad e : they 're flying from somewhere to somewhere , professor c : yeah , and they 'll end up here . so b and also brian kingsbury is actually flying from , uh , the east coast on that that morning . postdoc a : excellent . professor c : so , i i i will be i mean , he 's taking a very early flight and we do have the time work difference running the right way , but i still think that there 's no way we could start before eleven . it might end up really being twelve . so when we get closer we 'll find people 's plane schedules , and let everybody know . uh , so . that 's good . grad e : but , uh , yeah maybe an agenda , or at least some things to talk about would be a good idea . professor c : well we can start gathering those those ideas , but then we we should firm it up by next next thursday 's meeting . postdoc a : will we have time to , um , to prepare something that we in the format we were planning for the ibm transcribers by then , or ? grad e : oh yeah . absolutely . so have you heard back from brian about that , chuck ? phd b : yes , um , he 's i i 'm sorry , i should have forwarded that along . uh , oh i i think i mentioned at the last meeting , he said that , um , he talked to them and it was fine with the beeps they would be that 's easy for them to do . grad e : great . ok . so , uh , oh , though thi - thilo is n't here , um , but , uh , i i have the program to insert the beeps . what i do n't have is something to parse the output of the channelized transcripts to find out where to put the beeps , but that should be really easy to do . so do we have a meeting that that 's been done with , postdoc a : he 's he 's grad e : that we 've tightened it up to the point where we can actually give it to ibm and have them try it out ? postdoc a : he generated , um , a channel - wise presegmented version of a meeting , but it was robustness rather than edu so i guess depends on whether we 're willing to use robustness ? phd b : well for this experiment i think we can use pre pretty much anything . grad e : mm - hmm . phd b : this experiment of just grad e : well we had we had talked about doing maybe edu as a good choice , though . well , whatever we have . phd b : well we 've talked about that as being the next ones we wanted to transcribe . grad e : right . phd b : but for the purpose of sending him a sample one to f grad e : yeah , maybe it does n't matter . postdoc a : great . phd b : i i do n't think it matte postdoc a : i 'll i 'll i 'll , um , get make that available . grad e : ok , and has it been corrected ? postdoc a : oh , well , wait . um grad e : hand - checked ? cuz that was one of the processes we were talking about as well . phd b : right , so we need to run thilo 's thing on it , postdoc a : that 's right . phd b : and then we go in and adjust the boundaries . postdoc a : yeah that 's right . yeah , we have n't done that . i i could set someone on that tomorrow . phd b : right . grad e : and time how long it takes . postdoc a : i think they 're coming phd b : and we probably do n't have to do necessarily a whole meeting for that if we just wan na send them a sample to try . postdoc a : ok . what would be a good number of minutes ? phd b : i do n't know , maybe we can figure out how long it 'll take @ @ to to do . grad e : um , i do n't know , it seems to me w we probably should go ahead and do a whole meeting because we 'll have to transcribe the whole meeting anyway sometime . professor c : yes except that if they had if there was a choice between having fifteen minutes that was fully the way you wanted it , and having a whole meeting that did n't get at what you wanted for them it 's just dependent of how much grad e : like i i mean i guess if we have to do it again anyway , but , uh professor c : yeah . phd b : i guess , the only thing i 'm not sure about is , um , how quickly can the transcribers scan over and fix the boundaries , postdoc a : mm - hmm . phd b : and i mean , is it pretty easy ? grad e : i think it 's gon na be one or two times real time at wow , excuse me , two or more times real time , right ? cuz they have to at least listen to it . professor c : can we pipeline it so that say there 's , uh , the transcriber gets done with a quarter of the meeting and then we you run it through this other other stuff ? uh , grad e : well the other stuff is i b i 'm just thinking that from a data keeping - track - of - the - data point of view , it may be best to send them whole meetings at a time and not try to send them bits and pieces . professor c : ok , so . oh , that 's right . so the first thing is the automatic thing , and then it 's then it 's then it 's the transcribers tightening stuff up , grad e : right . postdoc a : mm - hmm . professor c : and then it 's ibm . postdoc a : mm - hmm , mm - hmm . grad e : right . professor c : ok , so you might as well ha run the automatic thing over the entire meeting , and then and then , uh , you would give ibm whatever was fixed . postdoc a : and have them fix it over the entire meeting too ? grad e : right . professor c : well , yeah , but start from the beginning and go to the end , right ? so if they were only half way through then that 's what you 'd give ibm . right ? phd b : as of what point ? i mean . the i guess the question on my mind is do we wait for the transcribers to adjust the marks for the whole meeting before we give anything to ibm , or do we go ahead and send them a sample ? let their professor c : why would n't we s @ @ w i if they were going sequentially through it , why would n't we give them i mean i are we trying to get something done by the time brian comes ? phd b : well i i i mean , i do n't know . grad e : that was the question . though . professor c : so if we if we were , then it seems like giving them something , whatever they had gotten up to , would be better than nothing . phd b : yeah . uh . that i agree . i agree . grad e : well , i do n't think i mean , h they they typically work for what , four hours , something like that ? postdoc a : hmm , i gue hmm . grad e : i think the they should be able to get through a whole meeting in one sitting . i would think , unless it 's a lot harder than we think it is , which it could be , certainly . postdoc a : if it 's got like for speakers then i guess i mean if phd b : we 're just doing the individual channels , grad e : or seven or eight . phd b : right ? postdoc a : individual channels . yeah . phd b : so it 's gon na be , depending on the number of people in the meeting , um , postdoc a : i guess there is this issue of , you know , if if the segmenter thought there was no speech on on a particular stretch , on a particular channel , grad e : well postdoc a : and there really was , then , if it did n't show up in a mixed signal to verify , then it might be overlooked , so , i mean , the question is `` should should a transcriber listen to the entire thing or can it g can it be based on the mixed signal ? `` and i th eh so far as i 'm concerned it 's fine to base it on the mixed signal at this point , and grad e : that 's what it seems to me too , in that if they need to , just like in the other cases , they can listen to the individual , if they need to . postdoc a : and that cuts down the time . yeah . grad e : but they do n't have to for most of it . postdoc a : yeah , that 's good . so . yeah . good , good , good . phd b : i do n't see how that will work , though . postdoc a : what what aspect ? professor c : so you 're talking about tightening up time boundaries ? phd b : yeah . professor c : so how do you grad e : so , they have the normal channeltrans interface where they have each individual speaker has their own line , phd b : yeah . grad e : but you 're listening to the mixed signal and you 're tightening the boundaries , correcting the boundaries . you should n't have to tighten them too much because thilo 's program does that . postdoc a : should be pretty good , yeah . phd d : except for it does n't do well on short things , remember . grad e : right , so so you 'll have to i phd d : it will miss them . it will miss most of the really short things . grad e : uh - huh . phd d : like that . postdoc a : but those would be those would be phd d : uh - huh . it will it will miss grad e : uh - huh ! phd d : yeah , you have to say `` uh - huh `` more slowly to to get c grad e : sorry . phd d : no , i 'm s i 'm actually serious . grad e : i 'll work on that . phd d : so it will miss stuff like that which phd b : i grad e : well , so so that 's something that the transcribers will have to have to do . postdoc a : yeah , but presumably , most of those they should be able to hear from the mixed signal unless they 're embedded in the heavil heavy overlap section when in which case they 'd be listening to the channels anyway . phd b : that 's that 's what i 'm i 'm concerned about the part . phd d : right , and that 's what i 'm not sure about . postdoc a : yeah , i am too . and i think it 's an empirical question . phd b : ca n't we uh could n't we just have , um , i do n't know , maybe this just does n't fit with the software , but i guess if i did n't know anything about transcriber and i was gon na make something to let them adjust boundaries , i would just show them one channel at a time , with the marks , and let them adju postdoc a : oh they can grad e : well , but then they have to do but then they for this meeting they would have to do seven times real time , and it would probably be more than that . postdoc a : yeah , that 's it . yeah . grad e : right ? because they 'd have to at least listen to each channel all the way through . postdoc a : and if phd b : but i but it 's very quick , postdoc a : uh - huh . phd b : right ? i mean , you scan i mean , if you have a display of the waveform . postdoc a : yeah . grad e : oh , you 're talking about visually . postdoc a : w well , the other problem is the breaths grad e : i just do n't think postdoc a : cuz you also see the breaths on the waveform . i 've i 've looked at the int uh , s i 've tried to do that with a single channel , and and you do see all sorts of other stuff besides just the voice . phd b : uh - huh . grad e : yeah , and i i think that they 're going much more on acoustics than they are on visuals . postdoc a : well that that i 'm not sure . what you the digital what the digital task that you had your interface ? um , i know for a fact that one of those sh she could really well she could judge what th what the number was based on the on the waveform . grad e : yeah , that 's actually true . yeah , you 're right . you 're absolutely right . yeah , i found the same thing that when i was scanning through the wave form i could see when someone started to read digits just by the shapes . postdoc a : yeah , she could tell which one was seven . grad e : um , maybe . postdoc a : yeah . professor c : so i do n't i 'm i 'm now entirely confused about what they do . grad e : but professor c : so , they 're they 're looking at a mixed signal , or they 're looking what what are they looking at visually ? postdoc a : well , they have a choice . they could choose any signal to look at . i 've tried lookin but usually they look at the mixed . but i 've i 've tried looking at the single signal and and in order to judge when it when it was speech and when it was n't , but the problem is then you have breaths which which show up on the signal . professor c : but the procedure that you 're imagining , i mean , people vary from this , is that they have the mixed signal wave form in front of them , and they have multiple , uh , well , let 's see , there is n't we do n't have transcription yet . so but there 's markers of some sort that have been happening automatically , grad e : right . professor c : and those show up on the mixed signal ? there 's a @ @ clicks ? grad e : n the t postdoc a : they show up on the separate ribbons . so you have a separate ribbon for each channel , professor c : there 're separate ribbons . grad e : right . postdoc a : and and i i it 'll be because it 's being segmented as channel at a time with his with thilo 's new procedure , then you do n't have the correspondence of the times across the bins uh across the ribbons uh you could have professor c : and is there a line moving across the waveform as it goes ? ok , so the way you 're imaging is they kind of play it , and they see oh this happened , then this happened , then and if it 's about right , they just sort of let it slide , postdoc a : yeah . grad e : right . right . professor c : and if it if it there 's a question on something , they stop and maybe look at the individual wave form . postdoc a : oh , well not not `` look `` . grad e : right . well , they would n't look at it at this point . they would just listen . professor c : they they might look at it , right ? grad e : well , the problem is that the the interface does n't really allow you to switch visuals . postdoc a : not very quickly . grad e : the problem is that that the tcl - tk interface with the visuals , it 's very slow to load waveforms . postdoc a : you can but it takes time . that 's it . professor c : uh - huh . grad e : and so when i tried that that was the first thing i tried when i first started it , postdoc a : oh , oh . visually . you can you can switch quickly between the audio , grad e : right ? postdoc a : but you just ca n't get the visual display to show quickly . so you have to it takes , i do n't know , three , four minutes to well , i mean , it takes it takes long enough phd d : yeah , it 's very slow to do that . postdoc a : it takes long enough cuz it has to reload the i i do n't know exactly what it 's doing frankly cuz but it t it takes long enough that it 's just not a practical alternative . phd d : that w grad e : well it it does some sort of shape pre - computation so that it can then scroll it quickly , grad g : but you can cancel that . phd d : yeah . grad e : yeah . but then you ca n't change the resolution or scroll quickly . grad g : oh , really ? postdoc a : now you could set up multiple windows , each one with a different signal showing , and then look between the windows . maybe that 's the solution . grad e : i mean , we we could do different interfaces , grad g : what if you preload them all ? grad e : right ? i mean , so so we could use like x waves instead of transcriber , postdoc a : yeah . grad e : and it loads faster , certainly . grad g : what if you were to preload all the channels or or initially grad e : well that 's what i tried originally . grad g : like does n't grad e : so i i actually before , uh , dave gelbart did this , i did an interface which showed each waveform and ea a ribbon for each waveform , grad g : mm - hmm . grad e : but the problem with it is even with just three waveforms it was just painfully slow to scroll . so you just scroll a screen and it would , you know go `` kur - chunk ! `` grad g : oh , ok . postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad e : and so it just was not doable with the current interface . postdoc a : you know , i am thinking if we have a meeting with only four speakers and , you know , you could fire up a transcriber interface for , y you know , in different windows , multiple ones , one for each channel . and it 's sort of a a hack but i mean it would be one way of seeing the visual form . grad e : i think that if we decide that we need that they need to see the visuals , we need to change the interface so that they can do that . postdoc a : yeah . yeah . professor c : so phd d : that 's actually what i thought of , loading the chopped up waveforms , i mean , you know , that that would make it faster grad e : an but is n't the chopped up waveforms . phd b : the problem is if if anything 's cut off , you ca n't expand it from the chopped up grad e : is n't that grad g : right . phd d : right , but if you a at some point grad e : and would n't that be the same { comment } as the mixed signal ? phd d : no , i mean the individual channels that were chopped up that it 'd be nice to be able to go back and forth between those short segments . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : cuz you do n't really nee like nine tenths of the time you 're throwing most of them out , but what you need are tho that particular channel , or that particular location , grad e : yeah . postdoc a : yeah . phd d : um , might be nice , cuz we save those out already , { comment } um , to be able to do that . but it wo n't work for ibm of course , it only works here cuz they 're not saving out the individual channels . postdoc a : well , i i do think that this this will be a doable procedure , professor c : yeah . postdoc a : and have them starting with mixed and , um , then when they get into overlaps , just have them systematically check all the channels to be sure that there is n't something hidden from from audio view . grad e : yeah . yeah , hopefully , i mean the mixed signal , the overlaps are pretty audible because it is volume equalized . so i think they should be able to hear . the only problem is is , you know , counting how many and if they 're really correct or not . so , i do n't know . phd d : i do n't know that you can locate them very well from the mixed signal , grad e : right but but once once you know that they happen , you can at least listen to the close talking , phd d : but you would know that they were there , and then you would switch . right . and then you would switch into the other professor c : but right now , to do this limitation , the switching is going to be switching of the audio ? is what she 's saying . postdoc a : yeah . grad e : right . professor c : so grad e : right , so so professor c : so they 're using their ears to do these markings anyway . grad e : did dave did dave do that change where you can actually just click rather than having to go up to the menu to listen to the individual channels ? postdoc a : yes . yes . phd d : yeah . postdoc a : click um , grad e : i had suggested it before . i just do n't know whether he did it or not . postdoc a : i 'm not sure what click what click on the ribbon ? yeah , you can get that grad e : yeah . postdoc a : oh , oh , get you can get the , uh you can get it to switch audio ? uh , not last i tried , grad e : yeah . postdoc a : but , um , maybe he 's changed it again . grad e : we should get him to do that because , uh , i think that would be much , much faster than going to the menu . postdoc a : i disagree . there 's a reason i disagree , and that is that , uh , you it 's very good to have a dissociation between the visual and the audio . there 're times when i wan na hear the mixed signal , bu but i want to transcribe on the single channel . so right now grad e : then maybe just buttons down at the bottom next to it . postdoc a : maybe , i just do n't i do n't see that it 's a grad e : just something so that it 's not in the menu option so that you can do it much faster . postdoc a : well , i mean , that 's the i i i think that might be a personal style thing . i find it really convenient the way the way it 's set up right now . grad e : well it just seems to me that if you wan na quickly `` well was that jane , no , was that chuck , no , was that morgan `` , right now , you have to go up to the menu , and each time , go up to the menu , select it , listen to that channel then click below , and then go back to the menu , select the next one , and then click below . postdoc a : that 's fine . yeah , it 's true . grad e : so you can definitely streamline that with the i with the interface . postdoc a : yeah , it could be faster , but , you know , i mean , th in the ideal world yeah . grad e : what ? postdoc a : no i i agree that 'd be nice . yeah . ok . professor c : so , um , done with that ? does any i forget , does anybody , uh , working on any any eurospeech submission related to this ? grad e : i would like to try to do something on digits but i just do n't know if we have time . i mean , it 's due next friday so we have to do the experiments and write the paper . so , i 'm gon na try , but , uh , we 'll just have to see . so actually i wan na get together with both andreas and , uh , uh , stephane with their respective systems . professor c : yeah . yeah there was that we that 's right , we had that one conversation about , uh , what what what did it mean for , uh , one of those speakers to be pathological , was it a grad e : right , and i have n't had s chance to sit down and listen . phd f : oh , i have n't i have n't listened to them either , grad e : i was going to do that this afternoon . phd f : but there must be something wrong , i mean , grad e : well , morgan and i were were having a debate { comment } about that . phd f : unless our grad e : whereas i think it it 's probably something pathologic and actually stephane 's results , i think confirm that . he s he did the aurora system also got very lousy average error , like fifteen or or , uh , fifteen to twenty percent average ? but then he ran it just on the lapel , and got about five or six percent word error ? so that that means to me that somewhere in the other recordings there are some pathological cases . but , you know , we th that may not be true . it may be just some of the segments they 're just doing a lousy job on . so i 'll i 'll listen to it and find out since you 'd actually split it up by segment . professor c : right . grad e : so i can actually listen to it . phd f : yeah . phd b : did you run the andreas the r sri recognizer on the digits ? grad e : oh , i thought he had sent that around to everyone , phd f : yeah . grad e : did you just sent that to me ? phd f : no , i d i did n't . since i considered those preliminary , i did n't . phd b : i it was n't phd f : but , yeah , if you take grad e : it was bimodal . phd f : so if you yeah , it 's actually , um , it uh it was trimodal , actually grad e : oh , was it trimodal , ok . professor c : yeah . phd f : trimodal , so professor c : there 's zero , a little bit , and a lot . phd f : there were t there was there was one h one bump at ze around zero , which were the native speakers , professor c : yeah . phd b : zero percent error ? professor c : yeah . phd f : the non - pathological native speakers . professor c : y yeah . phd f : then there was another bump at , um , oh , like fifteen or something . phd b : this is error you 're talking about ? professor c : oh was it fifteen ? yeah . grad e : yeah . phd f : yeah . those were the non - natives . and then there was another distinct bump at , like , a hundred , which must have been some problem . postdoc a : oh , wow ! oh , ok . phd f : i ca n't imagine that grad g : what is patho what do you mean by pathological ? grad e : just just something really wrong with grad g : i 'm sorry , i do n't grad e : a bug is what i mean , phd f : in the recording grad e : so that it 's like grad g : oh , ok . phd f : and there was this one meeting , i forget which one it was , where like , uh , six out of the eight channels were all , like had a hundred percent error . grad g : i see . grad e : which probably means like there was a th the recording interface crashed , grad g : right . grad e : or there was a short you know , someone was jiggling with a cord phd f : but grad e : or , uh , i extracted it incorrectly , phd f : but grad e : it was labeled grad g : mm - hmm . grad e : it was transcribed incorrectly , something really bad happened , and i just have n't listened to it yet to find out what it was . phd f : so , if i excluded the pathological ones , by definition , those that had like over ninety - five percent error rate , and the non - natives , then the average error rate was like one point four or something , professor c : what we 're calling . postdoc a : oh . oh . phd f : which which seemed reasonable given that , you know , the models were n't tuned for for it . professor c : yeah . phd f : and the grammar was n't tuned either . phd b : and it did n't matter whether it was the lapel or whether it was the phd f : it was just a @ @ . i have n't split it up that way , phd d : but there 's no overlap during the digit readings , so it should n't really matter . phd f : but it would be phd b : yeah . phd f : right . grad g : right . professor c : no , but there 's a little difference , phd f : so it should grad e : there 's a lot . professor c : and we have n't looked at it for digits , grad e : yeah . professor c : right ? phd b : yeah , so i was curious about that . professor c : and so , cuz because what he was what i was saying when i looked at those things is it it i was almost gon na call it quadrimodal because because there was a whole lot of cases where it was zero percent . phd f : mm - hmm . professor c : they just plain got it all right . and then there and then there was another bunch that were couple percent or something . phd f : yeah . but if you p if you actually histogrammed it , and it was a nice uh , you know , it it was zero was the most of them , professor c : yeah . grad e : a normal . yeah . phd f : but then there were the others were sort of decaying from there . professor c : yeah , yeah . phd f : and then there was the bump for the non - natives and then the pathological ones , professor c : i see . i see . grad e : yeah , cuz some of our non - natives are pretty non - native . so . postdoc a : you did you have , uh , something in the report about , uh , about , uh , for f uh , forced alignment ? professor c : yeah . postdoc a : have you have you started on that ? phd f : oh , well , yeah , so i 've been struggling with the forced alignments . um . so the scheme that i drew on the board last time where we tried to , um allow reject models for the s speech from other speakers , um , most of the time it does n't work very well . so , um , and the i have n't done i mean , the only way to check this right now was for me to actually load these into x waves and , you know , plus the alignments , and s play them and see where the and it looks and so i looked at all of the utterances from you , chuck , in that one conversation , i do n't know which you probably know which one i mean , it 's where you were on the lapel and morgan was sitting next to you and we can hear everything morgan says . but and and some of what you i mean , you also appear quite a bit in that cross - talk . so , i actually went through all of those , there were i think fifty - five segments , um , in in x waves , and and sort of did a crude check , and more often than not , it it gets it wrong . so there 's either the beginning , mostly the beginning word , where th you , um , you know , chuck talks somewhere into the segment , but the first , um , word of what he says , often `` i `` but it 's very reduced `` i , `` that 's just aligned to the beginning of someone else 's speech , uh in that segment , which is cross - talk . so , um , i 'm still tinkering with it , but it might well be that we ca n't get clean alignments out of this out of those , uh , channels , so . professor c : unless maybe we do this , uh , um , cancellation business . phd d : right , but that 's i mean , that was our plan , phd f : yeah , right . phd d : but it 's clear from dan that this is not something you can do in a short amount of time . professor c : oh , the short amount of time thing , right . phd d : so so we you know , we had spent a lot of time , um , writing up the hlt paper and we wanted to use that , uh , kind of analysis , professor c : yeah . phd d : but the hlt paper has , you know , it 's a very crude measure of overlap . it 's not really something you could scientifically say is overlap , it 's just whether or not the , um , the segments that were all synchronized , whether there was some overlap somewhere . grad e : c high correlation . phd d : and , you know , that pointed out some differences , so he thought well if we can do something quick and dirty because dan said the cross - cancellation , it 's not straight - forward . if it were straight - forward then we would try it , but so , it 's sort of good to hear that it was not straight - forward , thinking if we can get decent forced alignments , then at least we can do sort of a overall report of what happens with actual overlap in time , but , um phd b : i did n't think that his message said it was n't straight - forward . grad e : well if we 'd just phd b : i thought he 's just saying you have to look over a longer time window when you do it . grad e : um - hmm . phd d : and the but there are some issues of this timing , um , in the recordings professor c : yeah . phd b : right . phd d : and phd b : so you just have to look over longer time when you 're trying to align the things , you ca n't you ca n't just look grad e : well . are you talking about the fact that the recording software does n't do time - synchronous ? is that what you 're referring to ? that seems to me you can do that over the entire file and get a very accurate phd f : i do n't thi i d i do n't think that was the issue . phd d : i yeah , that was sort of a side issue . grad e : i did n't think so either . phd f : the issue was that you have to you have have you first have to have a pretty good speech detection on the individual channels . phd d : and it 's dynamic , so i guess it was more dynamic than some simple models would be able t to so so there are some things available , and i do n't know too much about this area where if people are n't moving around much than you could apply them , and it should work pretty well if you took care of this recording time difference . grad e : right , which should be pretty straight forward . phd d : which a at least is well defined , and grad e : yeah . phd d : um , but then if you add the dynamic aspect of adapting distances , then it was n't i guess it just was n't something that he could do quickly and not in time for us to be able to do something by two weeks from now , so . well less than a week . so um , so i do n't know what we can do if anything , that 's sort of worth , you know , a eurospeech paper at this point . phd b : well , andreas , how well did it work on the non - lapel stuff ? grad e : yeah . that 's what i was gon na say . phd f : i have n't checked those yet . it 's very tedious to check these . um , we would really need , ideally , a transcriber to time mark the you know , the be at least the beginning and s ends { comment } of contiguous speech . um , and , you know , then with the time marks , you can do an automatic comparison of your of your forced alignments . phd b : because really the the at least in terms of how we were gon na use this in our system was to get an ideal an idea , uh , for each channel about the start and end boundaries . grad e : oh , mncm . phd f : mm - hmm . phd b : we do n't really care about like intermediate word boundaries , so phd f : no , that 's how i 've been looking at it . phd b : yeah . phd d : right . phd f : i mean , i do n't care that the individual words are aligned correctly , phd b : yeah . phd f : but you do n't wan na , uh , infer from the alignment that someone spoke who did n't . phd b : right , exactly . so that 's why i was wondering if it phd f : so , so phd b : i mean , maybe if it does n't work for lapel stuff , we can just not use that phd f : yeah . phd b : and phd f : i have n't i ha just have n't had the time to , um , do the same procedure on one of the so i would need a k i would need a channel that has a speaker whose who has a lot of overlap but s you know , is a non - lapel mike . and , um , where preferably , also there 's someone sitting next to them who talks a lot . so , i grad e : so a meeting with me in it . phd f : maybe someone can help me find a good candidate and then i would be willing to phd b : we c you know what ? maybe the best way to find that would be to look through these . phd f : you know , hand phd b : cuz you can see the seat numbers , and then you can see what type of mike they were using . and so we just look for , you know , somebody sitting next to adam at one of the meetings phd d : actually y we can tell from the data that we have , phd f : from the insertions , maybe ? phd d : um , yeah , there 's a way to tell . phd f : fr fr from the phd d : it might not be a single person who 's always overlapping that person but any number of people , phd f : right . phd d : and , um , if you align the two hypothesis files across the channels , you know , just word alignment , you 'd be able to find that . so so i guess that 's sort of a last ther there 're sort of a few things we could do . one is just do like non - lapels if we can get good enough alignments . another one was to try to get somehow align thilo 's energy segmentations with what we have . but then you have the problem of not knowing where the words are because these meetings were done before that segmentation . but maybe there 's something that could be done . phd b : what what is why do you need the , um , the forced alignment for the hlt i mean for the eurospeech paper ? phd d : well , i guess i i wanted to just do something not on recognition experiments because that 's ju way too early , but to be able to report , you know , actual numbers . like if we if we had hand - transcribed pe good alignments or hand - checked alignments , then we could do this paper . it 's not that we need it to be automatic . but without knowing where the real words are , in time phd b : so it was to get it was to get more data and better to to squeeze the boundaries in . phd d : to to know what an overlap really if it 's really an overlap , or if it 's just a a a segment correlated with an overlap , phd b : ah , ok . yeah . phd d : and i guess that 's the difference to me between like a real paper and a sort of , promissory paper . so , um , if we d it might be possible to take thilo 's output and like if you have , um , like right now these meetings are all , grad e : ugh ! i forgot the digital camera again . every meeting ! phd d : you know , they 're time - aligned , so if these are two different channels and somebody 's talking here and somebody else is talking here , just that word , if thilo can tell us that there 're boundaries here , we should be able to figure that out grad e : mm - hmm . phd d : because the only thing transcribed in this channel is this word . but , um , you know , if there are things grad e : two words . phd d : yeah , if you have two and they 're at the edges , it 's like here and here , and there 's speech here , then it does n't really help you , so , um phd b : thilo 's wo n't put down two separate marks in that case phd d : well it w it would , but , um , we do n't know exactly where the words are because the transcriber gave us two words in this time bin grad e : thilo 's will . but . phd d : and we do n't really know , i mean , postdoc a : well it 's a merging problem . if you had a if you had a s if you had a script which would phd d : yeah it 's postdoc a : i 've thought about this , um , and i 've discussed i 've discussed it with thilo , phd d : i mean , if you have any ideas . i would postdoc a : um , the , i mean , i i in principle i could imagine writing a script which would approximate it to some degree , but there is this problem of slippage , grad e : well maybe maybe that will get enough of the cases to be useful . postdoc a : yeah . phd d : right . i mean , that that would be really helpful . that was sort of another possibility . grad e : you know s cuz it seemed like most of the cases are in fact the single word sorts , or at least a single phrase postdoc a : well they they can be stretched . grad e : in most of the bins . postdoc a : i would n't make that generalization cuz sometimes people will say , `` and then i `` and there 's a long pause phd d : yeah . postdoc a : and finish the sentence and and sometimes it looks coherent and and the i mean it 's it 's not a simple problem . but it 's really and then it 's coupled with the problem that sometimes , you know , with with a fricative you might get the beginning of the word cut off and so it 's coupled with the problem that thilo 's is n't perfect either . i mean , we 've i th it 's like you have a merging problem plus so merging plus this problem of , uh , not grad e : right . hmm ! postdoc a : y i i if the speech - nonspeech were perfect to begin with , the detector , that would already be an improvement , but that 's impossible , you know , i that 's too much to ask . phd d : right . postdoc a : and so i and may you know , i mean , it 's i think that there always th there would have to be some hand - tweaking , but it 's possible that a script could be written to merge those two types of things . i 've i 've discussed it with thilo and i mean in terms of not him doing it , but we we discussed some of the parameters of that and how hard it would be to in principle to write something that would do that . phd d : i mean , i guess in the future it wo n't be as much as an issue if transcribers are using the tightened boundaries to start with , then we have a good idea of where the forced alignment is constrained to . postdoc a : well , it 's just , you know , a matter of we had the revolution we had the revolution of improved , uh , interface , um , one month too late , phd d : so i 'm no i do n't know if this grad e : oh . tools . postdoc a : but it 's like , you know , it 's wonderful to have the revolution , phd d : oh it 's it 's a postdoc a : so it 's just a matter of of , you know , from now on we 'll be able to have things channelized to begin with . phd d : yeah . grad e : right . and we 'll just have to see how hard that is . postdoc a : yeah , that 's right . grad e : so so whether the corrections take too much time . postdoc a : that 's right . grad e : i was just thinking about the fact that if thilo 's missed these short segments , that might be quite time - consuming for them to insert them . phd d : yeah . postdoc a : good point . phd d : but he he also can adjust this minimum time duration constraint and then what you get is noises mostly , postdoc a : yeah . grad e : spurious . phd d : but that might be ok , an grad e : it might be easier to delete something that 's wrong than to insert something that 's missing . phd d : right . and you can also see in the waveform exac grad e : what do you think , jane ? phd d : yeah . professor c : if you can feel confident that what the yeah , that there 's actually something phd d : yeah . professor c : that you 're not gon na miss something , grad e : yeah . cuz then then you just delete it , and you do n't have to pick a time . professor c : yeah . phd d : i think it 's postdoc a : well the problem is i you know i i it 's a it 's a really good question , and i really find it a pain in the neck to delete things because you have to get the mouse up there on the t on the text line and i and otherwise you just use an arrow to get down i mean , i it depends on how lar th there 's so many extra things that would make it one of them harder than the other , or or vice versa . it 's not a simple question . but , you know , i mean , in principle , like , you know , if one of them is easier then to bias it towards whichever one 's easier . grad e : yeah , i guess the semantics are n't clear when you delete a segment , right ? because you would say you would have to determine what the surroundings were . phd d : you could just say it 's a noise , though , and write , you know , a post - processor will just all you have to do is just grad e : if it 's really a noise . phd d : or just say it 's just put `` x , `` you know , like `` not speech `` or something , postdoc a : i think it 's easier to add than delete , frankly , phd d : and then you can get yeah , or postdoc a : because you have to , uh , maneuver around on the on both windows then . grad e : to add or to delete ? postdoc a : to delete . phd d : anyways , so i i guess grad e : ok . that maybe that 's an interface issue that might be addressable . postdoc a : it 's possible . grad e : but i think it 's the semantics that are that are questionable to me , that you delete something so let 's say someone is talking to here , and then you have a little segment here . well , is that part of the speech ? is it part of the nonspeech ? i mean , w what do you embed it in ? phd d : there 's something nice , though , about keeping , and this is probably another discussion , keeping the stuff that thilo 's detector detected as possible speech and just marking it as not speech than deleting it . because then when you align it , then the alignment can you can put a reject model or whatever , grad e : oh , i see . so then they could just like put oh that 's what you meant by just put an `` x `` there . phd d : and you 're consistent with th the automatic system , grad e : uh , that 's an interesting idea . phd d : whereas if you delete it grad e : so so all they so that all they would have to do is put like an `` x `` there . phd d : yeah , or some , you know , dummy reject mod grad e : so blank for blank for silence , `` s `` `` s `` for speech , `` x `` `` x `` for something else . phd d : whatever , yeah . that 's actually a better way to do it cuz the a the forced alignment will probably be more consistent than postdoc a : well , like , i think there 's a complication which is that that you can have speech and noise in s phd d : i mean if it 's just as easy , but postdoc a : uh , you know , on the same channel , the same speaker , so now sometimes you get a ni microphone pop and , uh , i mean , there 're these fuzzy hybrid cases , and then the problem with the boundaries that have to be shifted around . it 's not a simple not a simple problem . phd d : anyway , quick question , though , at a high level do people think , let 's just say that we 're moving to this new era of like using the , um , pre - segmented t you know , non - synchronous conversations , does it make sense to try to take what we have now , which are the ones that , you know , we have recognition on which are synchronous and not time - tightened , and try to get something out of those for sort of purposes of illustrating the structure and the nature of the meetings , or is it better to just , you know , forget that and tr i mean , it 's grad e : well , i think we 'll have to , eventually . and my hope was that we would be able to use the forced alignment to get it . phd d : right . that was everybody 's hope . grad e : but if we ca n't phd d : and maybe we can for the non - lapel , but grad e : but if we ca n't , then maybe we just have to phd d : is it worth if we ca n't then we can fake it even if we 're we report , you know , we 're wrong twenty percent of the time or ten percent of the time . grad e : well , i 'm thinking are you talking about for a paper , or are talking about for the corpus . phd d : uh uh , that 's a good question actually . grad e : i mean cuz for the corpus it would be nice if everything were phd d : actually that 's a good question because we 'd have to completely redo those meetings , and we have like ten of them now . grad e : we would n't have to re - do them , we would just have to edit them . postdoc a : well , and also , i mean , i still have n't i still have n't given up on forced alignment . phd d : no , you 're right , actually postdoc a : i think that when brian comes , this 'll be uh an interesting aspect to ask him as well b grad e : when postdoc a : when brian kingsbury comes . grad e : oh , brian . you s i thought you said ryan . and it 's like , `` who 's ryan ? `` postdoc a : yeah , good question . well , ryan could come . phd d : uh , no , that 's a good point , though , because for feature extraction like for prosody or something , i mean , the meetings we have now , it 's a good chunk of data we need to get a decent f ok . postdoc a : that 's what my hope has been , phd d : so we should at least try it even if we ca n't , postdoc a : and that 's what that 's what you know , ever since the the february meeting that i transcribed from last year , forced alignment has been on the on the table as a way of cleaning them up later . phd d : right ? grad e : on the table , right ? postdoc a : and and so i 'm hopeful that that 's possible . i know that there 's complication in the overlap sections and with the lapel mikes , phd f : there 's postdoc a : but phd f : yeah . phd d : i mean , we might be able , at the very worst , we can get transcribers to correct the cases where i mean , you sort of have a good estimate where these places are because the recognition 's so poor . right ? phd b : yeah , we were never just gon na go with these as the final alignments . phd d : and so you 're postdoc a : i agree . i agree . phd b : we were always gon na run them past somebody . phd d : yeah . postdoc a : absolutely . phd d : so we need some way to push these first chunk of meetings into a state where we get good alignments . phd f : i 'm probably going to spend another day or so trying to improve things by , um , by using , um , acoustic adaptation . um , the right now i 'm using the unadapted models for the forced alignments , and it 's possible that you get considerably better results if you , uh , manage to adapt the , uh , phone models to the speaker and the reject model to the to to all the other speech . um , so phd b : could you could you at the same time adapt the reject model to the speech from all the other channels ? professor c : that 's what he just said . grad e : that 's what he was saying . phd d : yeah . phd f : that 's what i just said . phd b : oh , not just the speech from that of the other people from that channel , phd f : right . phd b : but the speech from the a actual other channels . phd d : right . phd f : oh , oh , i see . um , grad e : i do n't think so . i do n't think that would work , phd f : no , it grad e : right ? because you 'd a lot of it 's dominated by channel properties . phd f : th exactly . phd d : but what you do wan na do is take the , even if it 's klugey , take the segments the synchronous segments , the ones from the hlt paper , where only that speaker was talking . phd f : so you want to u phd d : use those for adaptation , cuz if you if you use everything , then you get all the cross - talk in the adaptation , and it 's just sort of blurred . phd f : that 's a good point . phd b : if you phd d : and that we know , i mean , we have that . and it 's about roughly two - thirds , i mean , very roughly averaged . phd f : yeah . phd d : that 's not completely negligible . like a third of it is bad for adaptation or so . phd f : mm - hmm . grad e : cool . i thought it was higher than that , that 's pr phd d : it really it depends a lot . this is just sort of an overall professor c : well i know what we 're not turning in to eurospeech , a redo of the hlt paper . grad e : right . professor c : that i do n't wan na do that , grad e : yeah , i 'm doing that for avios . phd d : yeah . but i think we 're oh , morgan 's talk went very well , i think . professor c : bleep . grad e : uh , `` bleep `` . yeah , really . phd d : i think morgan 's talk went very well it woke postdoc a : excellent . phd d : you know , it was really a well presented and got people laughing postdoc a : yeah . phd f : some good jokes in it ? grad e : especially the batteried meter popping up , phd d : yeah . grad e : that was hilarious . right when you were talking about that . professor c : you know , that wa that was the battery meter saying that it was fully charged , grad e : it 's full . yeah . professor c : yeah . postdoc a : you said , `` speaking about energy `` , or something . grad e : but that was funny . postdoc a : that was very nice . professor c : yeah . grad e : he he he was onto the bullet points about talking about the you know the little hand - held , and trying to get lower power and so on , phd f : po - low power grad e : and microsoft pops up a little window saying `` your batteries are now fully charged . `` postdoc a : that 's great . professor c : yeah , yeah , yeah . grad e : i 'm thinking about scripting that for my talk , you know , put put a little script in there to say `` your batteries are low `` right when i 'm saying that . professor c : yeah . yeah . no i mean , i in in your case , i mean , you were joking about it , but , i mean , your case the fact that your talking about similar things at a couple of conferences , it 's not these are conferences that have d really different emphases . whereas hlt and and eurospeech , pretty pretty pretty similar , so i i i ca n't see really just putting in the same thing , grad e : are too close , yeah . phd d : no , i d i do n't think that paper is really professor c : but phd d : the hlt paper is really more of a introduction - to - the - project paper , and , um professor c : yeah . grad e : yeah , for eurospeech we want some results if we can get them . phd d : well , yeah , it it 's probably would n't make sense , professor c : or some or some i mean , i would see eurospeech if we have some eurospeech papers , these will be paper p p uh , submissions . phd d : but professor c : these will be things that are particular things , aspects of it that we 're looking at , rather than , you know , attempt at a global paper about it . phd d : right , right . grad e : detail , yeah . overall . postdoc a : i did go through one of these meetings . i had , uh , one of the transcribers go through and tighten up the bins on one of the , uh , nsa meetings , and then i went through afterwards and double - checked it so that one is really very very accurate . i men i mentioned the link . i sent you know that one ? phd d : oh , so grad g : the which one ? i 'm sorry . postdoc a : um , i 'm trying to remember i do n't remember the number off hand . grad e : those are all postdoc a : it 's one of the nsa 's . i sent email before the conference , before last week . grad g : oh , ok . postdoc a : bef - what i mean is wednesday , thursday . phd d : that might might have been the one one of the ones that we did . grad g : mm - hmm . postdoc a : i 'm sure that that one 's accurate , i 've been through it myself . phd d : so that might actually be useful but they 're all non - native speakers . phd f : so we could compare before and after and see grad e : yeah . yeah , that 's what i was gon na say . the problem with those , they 're all german . phd f : oh , darn ! grad g : yeah , that 's the problem with the nsa speakers . phd d : and e and e and extremely hard to follow , like word - wise , i bet the transcri i mean , i have no idea what they 're talking about , grad g : yeah . postdoc a : i corrected it for a number of the words . i 'm sure that , um , they 're they 're accurate now . phd f : uh , actually i have to to go . phd d : i mean , this is tough for a language model probably grad g : right . phd d : but but that might be useful just for speech . professor c : well . grad e : ok , andreas is leaving leaving the building . mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . grad e : see ya . professor c : see ya . i do n't think we 'll go much longer . grad e : um , oh , before you l go i guess it 's alright for you to talk a little without the mike i noticed you adjusting the mike a lot , did it not fit you well ? oh . postdoc a : well i won i noticed when you turned your head , it would it would tilt . grad e : maybe it was n't just tightened enough , or phd d : maybe the yeah , the s thing that you have tightened @ @ , phd b : actually if if you have a larger head , that mike 's got ta go farther away which means the the balance is gon na make it wan na tip down . grad e : ok . anyway . professor c : yeah . ok , see ya . grad e : cuz , i 'm just thinking , you know , we were we 're we 've been talking about changing the mikes , uh , for a while , postdoc a : yeah . grad e : and if these are n't acoustically they seem really good , but if they 're not comfortable , we have the same problems we have with these stupid things . postdoc a : i think it 's com this is the first time i 've worn this , i find it very comfortable . grad e : i find it very comfortable too , but , uh , it looked like andreas was having problems , and i think morgan was saying it professor c : well , but i had it on i had it on this morning and it was fine . phd b : can i see that ? grad e : oh , oh you did wear it this morning ? professor c : yeah . grad e : ok , it 's off , so you can put it on . phd b : i yeah , i do n't want it on , i just i just want to , um , say what i think is a problem with this . if you are wearing this over your ears and you 've got it all the way out here , then the balance is gon na want to pull it this way . phd d : yeah . grad e : right . phd b : where as if somebody with a smaller head has it back here , grad e : it 's more balanced . phd b : right ? yeah . then it then it falls back this way so it 's phd d : so we have to grad e : well wh what it 's supposed to do is the backstrap is supposed to be under your crown , and so that should be should be if it 's right against your head there , which is what it 's supposed to be , that balances it so it does n't slide up . phd b : so this is supposed to be under that little protuberance . grad e : yep , right right below if you feel the back of your head , you feel a little lump , phd b : yeah . grad e : um , and so it 's supposed to be right under that . phd b : so it 's really supposed to go more like this than like this . grad e : yes , exactly . phd b : but then is n't that going to well , i guess you can control that . grad e : that that that tilts , right ? in lots and lots of different ways . phd d : so i 'm not saying anything about bias towards small headsize , grad e : about heads ? phd d : but does seem , uh phd b : it would be an advantage . postdoc a : well , wonder if it 's if if he was wearing it over his hair instead of under his hair . professor c : well , we should we shou we should work on compressing the heads , and grad e : i think probably it was yeah . it probably just was n't tight enough to the back of his head . i mean , so the directions do talk about bending it to your size , which is not really what we want . phd b : the other thing that would do it would be to hang a five pound weight off the back . phd d : right . professor c : that 's good ! postdoc a : what did you say ? phd d : a little , professor c : hang a five pound weight off the off the back . phd b : hang a five pound weight off the back . grad e : we did that professor c : weight . grad e : we at boeing i used i was doing augmented reality so they had head - mounts on , and we we had a little jury - rigged one with a welder 's helmet , phd b : counter - balance . grad e : and we had just a bag with a bunch of marbles in it as a counter - balance . professor c : or maybe this could be helpful just for evening the conversation between people . if people those who talk a lot have to wear heavier weights or something , and grad e : yeah ! professor c : and um , grad e : anyway . professor c : um , so , uh , what was i gon na say ? oh , yeah , i was gon na say , uh , i had these , uh , conversations with nist folks also while i was there and and , uh , um , so they they have their their plan for a room , uh , with , um , mikes in the middle of the table , and , uh , close - mounted mikes , and they 're talking about close - mounted and lapels , just cuz phd d : and arrays , professor c : sort of and the array . grad e : and arrays , professor c : yeah , so they were phd d : which is the i interesting grad e : yep . and cameras . professor c : and yeah , like multiple multiple video cameras coverin covering every everybody every place in the room , phd d : and video , right . professor c : uh , the yeah the the mikes in the middle , the head - mounted mikes , the lapel mikes , the array , uh , with well , there 's some discussion of fifty - nine , grad e : fifty - nine elements . professor c : they might go down to fifty - seven because , uh , there is , uh , some pressure from a couple people at the meeting for them to use a kemar head . i forget what kemar , uh , stands for , phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : but what it is is it 's dummy head that is very specially designed , grad e : oh , that 's right . professor c : and and and , so what they 're actually doing is they 're really there 's really two recording systems . phd d : right . that 's a great idea . professor c : so they may not be precisely synchronous , but the but there 's two two recording systems , one with , i think , twenty - four channels , and one with sixty - four channels . and the sixty - four channel one is for the array , but they 've got some empty channels there , and anyway they like they 're saying they may give up a couple or something if for for the kemar head if they go go with that . grad e : right . yeah , it is a good idea . yeah , h uh , j jonathan fiscus did say that , uh , they have lots of software for doing calibration for skew and offset between channels phd d : mm - hmm grad e : and that they 've found that 's just not a big deal . professor c : yeah . yeah , i 'm not too worried about that . i was thinking phd d : but they 're still planning to do like fake grad e : scenario - based . phd d : they have to do something like that , grad e : y right . phd d : right . grad e : their their legal issues wo n't allow them to do otherwise . professor c : yeah . grad e : but it sounded like they were pretty well thought out phd d : yeah , th that 's true . grad e : and they 're they 're gon na be real meetings , postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad e : it 's just that they 're with str with people who would not be meeting otherwise . phd b : did did they give a talk on this or was this informal ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : no , we just had some discussions , various discussions with them . grad e : it 's just informal . postdoc a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . yeah . grad e : yeah , i also sat and chatted with several of the nist folks . they seemed like a good group . phd b : what was the , um the paper by , um , lori lamel that you mentioned ? professor c : um , yeah , we sh we should just have you have you read it , but , i mea ba i i uh , we 've all got these little proceedings , postdoc a : mmm , yeah . professor c : but , um , basically , it was about , um , uh , going to a new task where you have insufficient data and using using data from something else , and adapting , and how well that works . uh , so in in fact it was pretty related to what liz and andreas did , uh , except that this was not with meeting stuff , it was with grad e : right . professor c : uh , like i think they s did n't they start off with broadcast news system ? and then they went to grad e : the - their broadcast news was their acoustic models and then all the other tasks were much simpler . professor c : yeah . grad e : so they were command and control and that sort of thing . professor c : ti - digits was one of them , and , uh , wall street journal . phd b : what was their rough what was their conclusion ? grad e : yeah , read wall street journal . it works . professor c : yeah . phd d : well , it 's it 's a good paper , i mean professor c : yeah , yeah . grad e : yeah . yeah , that was one of the ones that i liked . phd d : bring the grad e : that it not only works , in some cases it was better , which i thought was pretty interesting , but that 's cuz they did n't control for parameters . so . professor c : probably . grad e : you know , the broadcast news nets were not nets , phd d : right . phd b : did they ever try going going the other direction from simpler task to more complicated tasks , grad e : acoustic models { comment } were a lot more complex . phd b : or ? grad e : n not in that paper . professor c : that might be hard . grad e : yeah , well , one of the big problems with that is is often the simpler task is n't fully does n't have all the phones in it , professor c : yeah . grad e : and that that makes it very hard . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . grad e : but i 've done the same thing . i 've been using broadcast news nets for digits , professor c : yeah . grad e : like for the spr speech proxy thing that i did ? that 's what i did . professor c : yeah , sure . grad e : so . it works . professor c : yeah . yeah , and they have i mean they have better adaptation than we had than that that system , so they um , grad e : you mean they have some . professor c : yeah , we should probably what would actually what we should do , uh , i have n't said anything about this , but probably the five of us should pick out a paper or two that that , uh , you know , got our interest , and we should go around the room at one of the tuesday lunch meetings and say , you know , what what was good about the conference , grad e : present . yep . do a trip report . professor c : yeah . phd d : well , the summarization stuff was interesting , i mean , i do n't know anything about that field , but for this proposal on meeting summarization , um , i mean , it 's sort of a far cry because they were n't working with meeting type data , but he got sort of an overview on some of the different approaches , grad e : right . phd b : do you remember who the groups were that we 're doing ? phd d : so . well there 're this was the last day , grad e : a lot of different ones . postdoc a : r i think mm - hmm . phd d : but , i mean , there 's that 's a huge field and probably the groups there may not be representative of the field , i i do n't know exactly that everyone submits to this particular conference , phd b : was were there folks from bbn presenting ? phd d : but yet there was , let 's see , this was on the last day , mitre , bbn , and , um , prager grad e : mitre , bbn , ibm . uh , postdoc a : maryland . phd d : um , i wo it was professor c : columbia have anything ? no . phd d : no it was grad e : was n't who who who did the order one ? phd d : this was wednesday morning . the sentence ordering one , was that barselou , and these guys ? grad e : ugh ! { comment } i 'm just so bad at that . phd d : anyway , i i it 's in the program , i should have read it to remind myself , but that 's sort of useful and i think like when mari and katrin and jeff are here it 'd be good to figure out some kinds of things that we can start doing maybe just on the transcripts cuz we already have professor c : mm - hmm . grad e : yeah , we do have word transcripts . phd d : you know , yeah . postdoc a : well , i like the idea that adam had of of , um , z maybe generating minutes based on some of these things that we have because it would be easy to to to do that just , you know , and and phd d : right . postdoc a : it has to be , though , someone from this group because of the technical nature of the thing . grad e : someone who actually does take notes , um , i 'm very bad at note - taking . phd d : but i think what 's interesting is there 's all these different evaluations , like just , you know , how do you evaluate whether the summary is good or not , grad e : i always write down the wrong things . postdoc a : i do take notes . phd d : and that 's what 's was sort of interesting to me is that there 's different ways to do it , grad e : a judge . phd d : and phd b : was sra one of the groups talking about summarization , no ? phd d : hm - umm . no . postdoc a : it was an interesting session . one of those w grad e : and as i said , i like the microsoft talk on scaling issues in , uh , word sense disambiguation , phd d : yeah . grad e : that was interesting . professor c : yeah , that was an interesting discussion , grad e : the professor c : uh , i grad e : it it it was the only one it was the only one that had any sort of real disagreement about . phd d : the data issue comes up all the ti professor c : well , i did n't have as much disagreement as i would have liked , but i did n't wan na i wouldn i did n't wan na get into it because , uh , you know , it was the application was one i did n't know anything about , uh , it just would have been , you know , me getting up to be argumentative , but but , uh , i mean , the missing thi so so what they were saying it 's one of these things is you know , all you need is more data , sort of but i mea i wh it @ @ that 's that 's dissing it , uh , improperly , i mean , it was a nice study . uh , they were doing this it was n't word - sense disambiguation , it was phd d : yeah yeah yeah grad e : well , it sort of was . professor c : was it w was it word - sense ? yes . grad e : but it was it was a very simple case of `` to `` versus `` too `` versus `` two `` and `` there `` , `` their `` , `` they 're `` phd d : and there and their and professor c : yeah , yeah . ok . phd d : and that you could do better with more data , i mean , that 's clearly statistically professor c : right . grad e : yeah . professor c : and so , what they did was they had these different kinds of learning machines , and they had different amounts of data , and so they did like , you know , eight different methods that everybody , you know , uh , argues about about , `` oh my my kind of learning machine is better than your kind of learning machine . `` and , uh , they were started off with a million words that they used , which was evidently a number that a lot of people doing that particular kind of task had been using . so they went up , being microsoft , they went up to a billion . and then they had this log scale showing a you know , and and naturally everything gets grad e : them being beep , { comment } they went off to a billion . professor c : they well , it 's a big company , i did n't i did n't mean it as a ne anything negative , grad e : yeah . professor c : but i i i phd d : you mean the bigger the company the more words they use for training ? grad e : well , i think the reason they can do that , is that they assumed that text that they get off the web , like from wall street journal , is correct , and edit it . professor c : yeah . grad e : so that 's what they used as training data . it 's just saying if it 's in this corpus it 's correct . professor c : ok . but , i mean , yes . of course there was the kind of effect that , you know , one would expect that uh that you got better and better performance with more and more data . um , but the the real point was that the the different learning machines are sort of all over the place , and and by by going up significantly in data you can have much bigger effect then by switching learning machines and furthermore which learning machine was on top kind of depended on where you were in this picture , so , phd b : this was my concern about the recognizer in aurora . professor c : uh , that phd b : that the differences we 're seeing in the front - end is b professor c : yeah . grad e : are irrelevant . phd b : are irrelevant once you get a real recognizer at the back - end . professor c : yeah . phd d : if you add more data ? or phd b : you know ? professor c : yeah . yeah , could well be . so so , i mean , that was that was kind of , you know , it 's a good point , but the problem i had with it was that the implications out of this was that , uh , the kind of choices you make about learning machines were therefore irrelevant which is not at n t as for as i know in in tasks i 'm more familiar with @ @ is not at all true . what i what is is true is that different learning machines have different properties , and you wan na know what those properties are . and someone else sort of implied that well we s you know , a all the study of learning machine we still do n't know what those properties are . we do n't know them perfectly , but we know that some kinds use more memory and and some other kinds use more computation and some are are hav have limited kind of discrimination , but are just easy to use , and others are phd b : but does n't their conclusion just sort of you could have guessed that before they even started ? because if you assume that these learning things get better and better and better , professor c : you would guess phd b : then as you approach there 's a point where you ca n't get any better , right ? you get everything right . professor c : yeah . phd d : it 's just no grad e : but phd b : so they 're all approaching . grad e : no , but there was still a spread . they were n't all up they were n't converging . phd b : but what i 'm saying is that th they have to , as they all get better , they have to get closer together . grad e : they were all still spread . but they right , right . sure . but they had n't even come close to that point . all the tasks were still improving when they hit a billion . professor c : yeah . phd b : but they 're all going the same way , right ? so you have to get closer . professor c : eventually . o one would grad e : but they did n't get closer . phd b : oh they did n't ? professor c : well grad e : they just switched position . professor c : well that 's getting cl i mean , yeah , the spread was still pretty wide that 's th that 's true , but but , uh , i think it would be irntu intu intuition that this would be the case , but , uh , to really see it and to have the intuition is quite different , i mean , i think somebody w w let 's see who was talking about earlier that the effect of having a lot more data is quite different in switchboard than it is in in broadcast news , phd d : well it 's different for different tasks . grad e : yeah . it was liz . yeah . professor c : yeah . phd d : so it depends a lot on whether , you know , it disambiguation is exactly the case where more data is better , right ? you 're you 're you can assume similar distributions , professor c : yeah . phd d : but if you wanted to do disambiguation on a different type of , uh , test data then your training data , then that extra data would n't generalize , grad e : right . professor c : right . grad e : but , i think one of their p they they had a couple points . w { comment } uh , i think one of them was that `` well , maybe simpler algorithms and more data are is better `` . less memory , faster operation , simpler . right ? because their simplest , most brain - dead algorithm did pretty darn well professor c : mm - hmm . grad e : when you got gave it a lot more data . and then also they were saying , `` well , m you have access to a lot more data . why are you sticking with a million words ? `` i mean , their point was that this million - word corpus that everyone uses is apparently ten or fifteen years old . and everyone is still using it , so . professor c : yeah . but anyway , i i i think it 's it 's just the the i it 's it 's it 's not really the conclusion they came to so much , as the conclusion that some of the , uh , uh , commenters in the crowd came up with grad e : but we could talk about this stuff , i think this would be fun to do . right . professor c : that , uh , you know , this therefore is further evidence that , you know , more data is really all you should care about , and that i thought was just kind of going too far the other way , grad e : machine - learning . professor c : and and the the , uh , one one person ga g g got up and made a a brief defense , uh , but it was a different kind of grounds , it was that that , uh , i w the reason people were not using so much data before was not because they were stupid or did n't realize data was important , but in fact th they did n't have it available . um , but the other point to make a again is that , uh , machine learning still does matter , but it it matters more in some situations than in others , and it and also there 's there 's not just mattering or not mattering , but there 's mattering in different ways . i mean , you might be in some situation where you care how much memory you 're using , or you care , you know , what recall time is , grad e : right . professor c : or you care , you know , and and grad e : or you only have a million words for your some new task . professor c : yeah , or or , uh phd d : or done another language , or i mean , you so there 's papers on portability and rapid prototyping and blah - blah - blah , professor c : yeah . grad e : right . professor c : yeah . phd d : and then there 's people saying , `` oh , just add more data . `` professor c : and there 's cost ! phd d : so , these are like two different religions , basically . grad e : mm - hmm . cost . professor c : there 's just plain cost , grad e : yeah . that 's a big one . professor c : you know , so so these , i mean th the in the in the speech side , the thing that @ @ always occurs to me is that if you if you uh one person has a system that requires ten thousand hours to train on , and the other only requires a hundred , and they both do about the same because the hundred hour one was smarter , that 's that 's gon na be better . because people , i mean , there is n't gon na be just one system that people train on and then that 's it for the r for all of time . i mean , people are gon na be doing other different things , and so it these these things matters matter . postdoc a : yeah , that 's it . grad e : yeah , so that 's one of the slides they put up . postdoc a : so , i mean , this was a very provocative slide . she put this up , and it was like this is this p people kept saying , `` can i see that slide again ? `` professor c : yeah . phd d : yeah , postdoc a : and then they 'd make a comment , and one person said , well - known person said , um , you know , `` before you dismiss forty - five years including my work `` phd d : yeah . grad e : forty - five years of research . phd d : yeah . grad g : yeah . phd d : but th you know , the same thing has happened in computational linguistics , right ? you look at the acl papers coming out , and now there 's sort of a turn back towards , ok we 've learned statistic you know , we 're basically getting what we expect out of some statistical methods , and , you know , the there 's arguments on both sides , so grad e : i think the matters is the thing that that was misleading . postdoc a : that was very offending , very offending . phd d : yeah , yeah . grad e : is that all all of them are based on all the others , right ? just , you you ca n't say phd b : maybe they should have said `` focus `` or something . professor c : right . grad e : yeah . i mean , so . and i 'm saying the same thing happened with speech recognition , right ? for a long time people were hand - c coding linguistic rules and then they discovered machine - learning worked better . and now they 're throwing more and more data and worrying perhaps worrying less and less about , uh , the exact details of the algorithms . phd d : and and then you hit this grad e : except when they have a eurospeech paper . postdoc a : yeah . professor c : yeah . grad e : anyway . professor c : anyway , tea is tea is , uh , starting . grad e : shall we read some digits ? are we gon na do one at a time ? or should we read them all agai at once again . professor c : let 's do it all at once . postdoc a : yeah , that 's good . professor c : we @ @ let 's try that again . phd d : yes ! so , and maybe we wo n't laugh this time also . grad e : ok . so remember to read the transcript number so that , uh , everyone knows that what it is . and ready ? postdoc a : yeah . grad e : three , two , one . professor c : boy , is that ever efficient . grad e : yep . that 's really fast . </s>
<s> what was said about ibm ? </s> grad e : right . postdoc a : mm - hmm . professor c : and then it 's ibm . postdoc a : mm - hmm , mm - hmm . grad e : right . professor c : ok , so you might as well ha run the automatic thing over the entire meeting , and then and then , uh , you would give ibm whatever was fixed . postdoc a : and have them fix it over the entire meeting too ? grad e : right . professor c : well , yeah , but start from the beginning and go to the end , right ? so if they were only half way through then that 's what you 'd give ibm . right ? phd b : as of what point ? i mean . the i guess the question on my mind is do we wait for the transcribers to adjust the marks for the whole meeting before we give anything to ibm , or do we go ahead and send them a sample ? let their </s>
<s> what were the preliminary recognition results ? </s> grad e : whereas i think it it 's probably something pathologic and actually stephane 's results , i think confirm that . he s he did the aurora system also got very lousy average error , like fifteen or or , uh , fifteen to twenty percent average ? but then he ran it just on the lapel , and got about five or six percent word error ? so that that means to me that somewhere in the other recordings there are some pathological cases . but , you know , we th that may not be true . it may be just some of the segments they 're just doing a lousy job on . so i 'll i 'll listen to it and find out since you 'd actually split it up by segment . professor c : right . grad e : so i can actually listen to it . phd f : yeah . phd b : did you run the andreas the r sri recognizer on the digits ? grad e : oh , i thought he had sent that around to everyone , phd f : yeah . grad e : did you just sent that to me ? phd f : no , i d i did n't . since i considered those preliminary , i did n't . phd b : i it was n't phd f : but , yeah , if you take grad e : it was bimodal . phd f : so if you yeah , it 's actually , um , it uh it was trimodal , actually grad e : oh , was it trimodal , ok . professor c : yeah . phd f : trimodal , so professor c : there 's zero , a little bit , and a lot . phd f : there were t there was there was one h one bump at ze around zero , which were the native speakers , professor c : yeah . phd b : zero percent error ? professor c : yeah . phd f : the non - pathological native speakers . professor c : y yeah . phd f : then there was another bump at , um , oh , like fifteen or something . phd b : this is error you 're talking about ? professor c : oh was it fifteen ? yeah . grad e : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the team say about the transcriber interface ? </s> grad g : what if you preload them all ? grad e : right ? i mean , so so we could use like x waves instead of transcriber , postdoc a : yeah . grad e : and it loads faster , certainly . grad g : what if you were to preload all the channels or or initially grad e : well that 's what i tried originally . grad g : like does n't grad e : so i i actually before , uh , dave gelbart did this , i did an interface which showed each waveform and ea a ribbon for each waveform , grad g : mm - hmm . grad e : but the problem with it is even with just three waveforms it was just painfully slow to scroll . so you just scroll a screen and it would , you know go `` kur - chunk ! `` grad g : oh , ok . postdoc a : mm - hmm . grad e : and so it just was not doable with the current interface . postdoc a : you know , i am thinking if we have a meeting with only four speakers and , you know , you could fire up a transcriber interface for , y you know , in different windows , multiple ones , one for each channel . and it 's sort of a a hack but i mean it would be one way of seeing the visual form . grad e : i think that if we decide that we need that they need to see the visuals , we need to change the interface so that they can do that . postdoc a : yeah . yeah . professor c : so phd d : that 's actually what i thought of , loading the chopped up waveforms , i mean , you know , that that would make it faster grad e : an but is n't the chopped up waveforms . </s>
<s> what was said about mixed signals ? </s> grad e : yeah . yeah , hopefully , i mean the mixed signal , the overlaps are pretty audible because it is volume equalized . so i think they should be able to hear . the only problem is is , you know , counting how many and if they 're really correct or not . so , i do n't know . phd d : i do n't know that you can locate them very well from the mixed signal , grad e : right but but once once you know that they happen , you can at least listen to the close talking , phd d : but you would know that they were there , and then you would switch . right . and then you would switch into the other professor c : but right now , to do this limitation , the switching is going to be switching of the audio ? is what she 's saying . postdoc a : yeah . grad e : right . professor c : so grad e : right , so so professor c : so they 're using their ears to do these markings anyway . grad e : did dave did dave do that change where you can actually just click rather than having to go up to the menu to listen to the individual channels ? postdoc a : yes . yes . phd d : yeah . postdoc a : click um , grad e : i had suggested it before . i just do n't know whether he did it or not . postdoc a : i 'm not sure what click what click on the ribbon ? yeah , you can get that grad e : yeah . postdoc a : oh , oh , get you can get the , uh you can get it to switch audio ? uh , not last i tried , grad e : yeah . postdoc a : but , um , maybe he 's changed it again . grad e : we should get him to do that because , uh , i think that would be much , much faster than going to the menu . postdoc a : i disagree . there 's a reason i disagree , and that is that , uh , you it 's very good to have a dissociation between the visual and the audio . there 're times when i wan na hear the mixed signal , bu but i want to transcribe on the single channel . so right now </s>
<s> what challenges needed to be overcome before submission for eurospeech ’ 01 ? </s> grad e : cool . i thought it was higher than that , that 's pr phd d : it really it depends a lot . this is just sort of an overall professor c : well i know what we 're not turning in to eurospeech , a redo of the hlt paper . grad e : right . professor c : that i do n't wan na do that , grad e : yeah , i 'm doing that for avios . phd d : yeah . but i think we 're oh , morgan 's talk went very well , i think . professor c : bleep . grad e : uh , `` bleep `` . yeah , really . phd d : i think morgan 's talk went very well it woke postdoc a : excellent . phd d : you know , it was really a well presented and got people laughing postdoc a : yeah . phd f : some good jokes in it ? grad e : especially the batteried meter popping up , phd d : yeah . grad e : that was hilarious . right when you were talking about that . professor c : you know , that wa that was the battery meter saying that it was fully charged , grad e : it 's full . yeah . professor c : yeah . postdoc a : you said , `` speaking about energy `` , or something . grad e : but that was funny . postdoc a : that was very nice . professor c : yeah . grad e : he he he was onto the bullet points about talking about the you know the little hand - held , and trying to get lower power and so on , phd f : po - low power grad e : and microsoft pops up a little window saying `` your batteries are now fully charged . `` postdoc a : that 's great . professor c : yeah , yeah , yeah . grad e : i 'm thinking about scripting that for my talk , you know , put put a little script in there to say `` your batteries are low `` right when i 'm saying that . professor c : yeah . yeah . no i mean , i in in your case , i mean , you were joking about it , but , i mean , your case the fact that your talking about similar things at a couple of conferences , it 's not these are conferences that have d really different emphases . whereas hlt and and eurospeech , pretty pretty pretty similar , so i i i ca n't see really just putting in the same thing , grad e : are too close , yeah . phd d : no , i d i do n't think that paper is really professor c : but phd d : the hlt paper is really more of a introduction - to - the - project paper , and , um professor c : yeah . grad e : yeah , for eurospeech we want some results if we can get them . phd d : well , yeah , it it 's probably would n't make sense , professor c : or some or some i mean , i would see eurospeech if we have some eurospeech papers , these will be paper p p uh , submissions . </s>
<s> what is the future of data alignments ? </s> phd d : we need to get a decent f ok . postdoc a : that 's what my hope has been , phd d : so we should at least try it even if we ca n't , postdoc a : and that 's what that 's what you know , ever since the the february meeting that i transcribed from last year , forced alignment has been on the on the table as a way of cleaning them up later . phd d : right ? grad e : on the table , right ? postdoc a : and and so i 'm hopeful that that 's possible . i know that there 's complication in the overlap sections and with the lapel mikes , phd f : there 's postdoc a : but phd f : yeah . phd d : i mean , we might be able , at the very worst , we can get transcribers to correct the cases where i mean , you sort of have a good estimate where these places are because the recognition 's so poor . right ? phd b : yeah , we were never just gon na go with these as the final alignments . phd d : and so you 're postdoc a : i agree . i agree . phd b : we were always gon na run them past somebody . phd d : yeah . postdoc a : absolutely . phd d : so we need some way to push these first chunk of meetings into a state where we get good alignments . phd f : i 'm probably going to spend another day or so trying to improve things by , um , by using , um , acoustic adaptation . um , the right now i 'm using the unadapted models for the forced alignments , and it 's possible that you get considerably better results if you , uh , manage to adapt the , uh , phone models to the speaker and the reject model to the to to all the other speech . um , so phd b : could you could you at the same time adapt the reject model to the speech from all the other channels ? professor c : that 's what he just said . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone . welcome to the children , young people and education committee . we 've received apologies for absence from suzy davies and there is no substitute . janet finch-saunders is joining us from the assembly offices in colwyn bay via video conference . can i ask members if there are any declarations of interest , please ? no . okay . item 2 , then , this morning is a post-legislative scrutiny session on the higher education ( wales ) act 2015 . i 'm very pleased to welcome kirsty williams am , minister for education , and huw morris , who is director of the skills , higher education and lifelong learning group in welsh government . thank you , both , for attending , and thank you for the paper that you provided in advance . i will just start the questioning by asking whether you are planning to repeal the 2015 higher education act , or will it be amended by the post-compulsory education and training bill ? kirsty williams am : thank you very much , chair . i 'm very pleased to be with the committee again this morning , although it 's in slightly unusual circumstances . as a piece of post-legislative scrutiny , this was a bill that was taken forward by a different minister in a different administration , but i think it is really valuable work in the context of the question you just set out : what can we learn from the implementation of this piece of legislation as we move forward with our reform journey and with this government and my proposals to introduce a new commission for tertiary education ? there is much , at the moment , that lies within the 2015 act that we will look to bring forward into the new legislation , but there are certainly experiences—and i 'm sure we 'll come on to some of the evidence that has been received about what 's worked , what perhaps has n't worked—that we all want to reflect on and be mindful of as we take forward the new bill , including the report of this committee as part of it . so , it is our intention that this bill will be superceded by the new pcetr bill . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 've got a series of questions now from siân gwenllian . sian gwenllian am : good morning . do you believe that the act has fulfilled all the government 's objectives ? where are the weaknesses ? kirsty williams am : diolch yn fawr , siân . as i 've said , it 's a bit difficult to place myself in the mind of the previous minister when this legislation was first envisaged and then taken through . you 'll be aware that there were four main reasons for the introduction of the bill : around regulation of institutions in wales ; safeguarding the contribution made to public good arising from welsh government 's financial support for the sector ; maintaining a focus on fair access ; and preserving and protecting the principle of institutional autonomy . i think the evidence that has been received by the committee to date shows that there are different views about the effectiveness of whether all four strategic aims have been achieved . i think those strategic aims are still really , really important and certainly will underpin our thought process going forward , but we have to recognise the higher education and research bill across the border in england , the implementation of new student support measures in wales , as well as the report that was done by ellen hazelkorn , i think , means it is appropriate that we move forward with different proposals , not just regulation of the he sector but the post-compulsory sector as a whole . we will look to see what we can do to strengthen or whether there is more that we need to do to achieve those four objectives , because i think those four objectives are still very , very relevant . but we have to have legislation now that is fit for the circumstances we currently find ourselves in and , hopefully , futureproofs us for how we want to see the sector develop in the future . sian gwenllian am : do you feel perhaps that the legislation itself has n't been strong enough , and that you then have had to drive some of these objectives through the annual remit letter , rather than through legislation , and that 's why the strengthening is required ? kirsty williams am : certainly , i see the remit letter as a really , really important way in which national priorities and the priorities of an elected government can be clearly stated , communicated to the higher education funding council for wales , and then hefcw use their powers to ensure that that happens . so , certainly , i see the remit letter as being a very important mechanism for ensuring , as i said , that those national priorities are clearly articulated , and then change happens . sian gwenllian am : has the current legislation been framed around institutional autonomy so that it 's not possible for institutions to fulfil any national outcomes , and is that going to be an element of the new bill ? kirsty williams am : well , certainly , the 2015 act contains numerous provisions that protect universities ' privileges and autonomy . and that 's really important , and those are principles that i am committed to in any legislation that i bring forward . we 'll certainly be looking to see how we can carry those protections into the forthcoming bill , but , at the same time , we do have to ensure appropriate regulation and accountability of institutions for their public funding and the privileges that they enjoy . and i think there are a number of ways in which that can happen . we have a very positive working relationship with the higher education funding council for wales , and i am very fortunate to have a very positive working relationship with the sector . the remit letters are a really important way in which we can lay out those national priorities . i do n't think there 's anything in the legislation per se that prevents those national priorities being articulated and being acted upon . sian gwenllian am : i do n't think that 's what hefcw has said in their evidence . they 've said that the bill has been framed in a way where it 's not possible for institutions to fulfil any requirements . you 're talking about the remit letter ; maybe you need to have that discussion there , but , in terms of the bill itself , you ca n't make them fulfil any national outcomes . should n't there be a discussion looking to move in a direction where there are national outcomes being set through legislation , because there is public money going into that ? kirsty williams am : well , i do n't know whether we need national outcomes through legislation , because those national priorities , potentially , will change over time . what is really important , and what we will be seeking to do in the new legislation , is look to move to a system of outcome agreements . so , there is a very clear expectation that the commission will have , in regulating the sector , and co-ordinating and funding the sector , to create a system of outcome agreements , where those outputs will reflect national priorities , and that 's one of the things that we 've consulted on , and will look to take forward in the new legislation . sian gwenllian am : okay . that 's clear enough . what about private providers ? the act , or the act as it stands , makes it a requirement for a regulated institution to be a charity , and that means it 's not possible to regulate alternative private providers under the act , even though they can provide higher education in wales . what is your view on this , and will the new legislation continue with the requirement of being a charity ? kirsty williams am : okay . so , i think , first of all , it 's important to make the distinction between the scale of private providers , and what could be termed as 'unregulated providers ' in the welsh system , as opposed to the english system . and i think that 's a really important distinction to make . so , currently , under the current legislation , unregulated providers can only access welsh government student support if they 're designated on a case-by-case basis . so , we do have a circumstance where—and a process in place , to manage this . so , we have a specific designation policy , which is operated on our behalf by hefcw . only six organisations were designated on a case-by-case basis in the 2018-19 academic year , so the scale here is small . three of those were further education colleges . so , when we talk about a private provider , perhaps people would have a view of a private university , but , actually , three of those were fe colleges , which we would all be familiar with . and the three private providers were the centre for alternative technology , the training arm of the church in wales and the newport and district group training association . all three of those are actual charities . so , in order for their courses to be specifically designated , the three crucial questions that those providers have to answer are : quality—is what they ’ re providing to students of a good quality ; the financial viability of the institution , again , to try to protect the interests of the students who may find themselves embarking on a course in an institution that isn ’ t viable ; as well as their contribution to private—sorry , not to private good—public good . and we are considering how that part of the sector will be regulated in the forthcoming legislation . but , huw , i do n't know if there 's anything else to add ? huw morris : well , just to say that there are a very small number of private providers , as the minister has outlined , and , in comparison with england , where i think the last figures said that there were between 300 and 400 private providers in england , you get a sense of the differences that exist there . and , if you look at what happened over recent years , it has been those small private providers across the uk who have been most financially challenged and a number of them have stopped their operations , with consequences for the students . so , we ’ ve been keen to put students at the front of things to make sure that the institutions that they ’ re enrolling with are strong and have good quality . sian gwenllian am : okay . so , what you 're saying is that you will continue with a charitable status , or not— kirsty williams am : at this stage— sian gwenllian am : —or are you still thinking about it ? kirsty williams am : well , at this stage , i think the charitable status will continue to be an important part of what we will take forward . sian gwenllian am : just turning finally to part-time fees and postgraduate fees , do you have an intention to regulate this part in the new legislation ? kirsty williams am : i have to say that , at present , we 've not identified an urgent reason to designate these courses as qualifying courses for the purposes of a fee limit . and there are a number of reasons for that . actually , the current act—the 2015 act—does not permit the fee regulation of postgraduate courses , other than pgce courses for it purposes . in the case of part-time courses , i 'm currently content that fee levels are not exceeding the amount of student support made available by the welsh government . so , i think we are , at this moment , relaxed about that , and there are some difficulties around deciding and introducing fee limits on postgraduate courses . i think what 's really important to me is the success at the moment of attracting people to postgraduate and part-time study in wales , as a result of our reforms to student finance . but , clearly , we 'll need to keep that under review . but , at this current moment , the act precludes fee regulation in some areas and there 's not a pressing policy need that we 've identified to date . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . okay , we 're going to move on now to some questions about the level of ambition in the higher education act and any lessons for the pcet bill , from janet finch-saunders . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . to what extent has the 2012 university funding system limited welsh government ’ s policy leverage over the sector , and how has the he act addressed this beyond the levers offered by fee and access plans ? kirsty williams am : of course , the act was introduced as a direct result of the changing scenario around finance and the different ways in which , because of the reduction in hefcw 's budget , the level of influence that hefcw would be able to exert over institutions through the imposition of terms and conditions of funding— . so , the act was introduced in part to address that shift in influence and the act also has provided hefcw with a range of new powers of intervention and sanctions in the case of non-compliance by institutions . personally , i wholeheartedly believe that tertiary education providers should contribute to national goals and outcomes as part of what i 'd describe as a civic mission . i 'm determined that any legislation that i bring forward and any commission that i establish will be empowered to enable that to happen through its regulatory and funding powers . of course , the funding situation has shifted again now because of the introduction of what is commonly known as the diamond reforms , but our new system of student finance does again shift the parameters of influence that hefcw or any new tertiary commission could have . but , as i said earlier , it 's not to say that institutions have had a free reign . we have been able to use the remit letter and our relationship with hefcw to progress agendas that we would want to see . so , for instance , you 'll be aware , in my remit letter , i am concerned about issues around how people working in the sector are paid . we 've been able to successfully see all institutions sign up to becoming living wage employers , all institutions sign up to the welsh government 's code of ethical procurement . so , it 's not to say that the act has meant that we 've had no influence , but there are opportunities now , because of the change in financial circumstances once again , to look at that in any forthcoming legislation . janet finch-saunders am : thank you , minister . do you share hefcw 's views on the benefits of having national targets to get institutions to address national priorities ? is this something you wish you could do ? kirsty williams am : well , it 's not something i wish i could do ; i think that we 're doing it . self-praise is no recommendation , but , because of the working relationship that we have , i think we 're seeing some success in using the remit letter to influence national outcomes . so , i 've just talked about living wage ; we 're also using our remit letter to drive transparency over senior leaders ' pay , the gender pay gap within institutions . for instance , as part of this government 's commitment to improving mental health , we 've been able to use the remit letter and some funding to be able to drive change and some improvements in mental health in the higher education sector . these are national priorities and we 're acting upon them and we 're using the multiple levers we have at the moment to engage in universities . and , i have to say , universities have risen to that challenge , and i 'm very grateful to them for doing that . janet finch-saunders am : thank you . are there plans to give the proposed new pcet funding body more effective policy levers to align the sector to the social , economic and civic needs of wales ? and , if so , how will this be done ? kirsty williams am : well , as i said in answer earlier , i 'm determined that we ensure a sense of civic mission for the entirety of the sector , including our institutes of higher education . you 'll be aware , janet , that , in the consultation exercises that have been undertaken by the government so far on pcet reform , we will be introducing more formal outcome agreements , whereby institutions might be given by the commission very clear expectations of how they 're expected to contribute to national priorities . janet finch-saunders am : thanks . we 've heard that the he act , by focusing on individual institutions , did not encourage collaboration , even for widening access activity . was this a missed opportunity and how will this be taken forward in the pcet bill ? kirsty williams am : i think we can strengthen our sector by closer collaboration . i think what sets us apart in wales is that this government is determined to create a legislative regime and a regulation regime that encourages collaboration and co-operation , which is in stark contrast to the marketisation and the competition that we see being regulated for and legislated for across the border in england . that 's one of the reasons why we are going to introduce the new pcet reforms—to create collaboration , not just between different higher education institutes but actually across the sector . so , this is a prime opportunity where we can create a framework that demands and encourages collaboration , not just , as i said , in between individual institutions but across the entirety of the sector . we 're doing that because that means we can avoid duplication , we can fill gaps that there currently are and we can create a system that allows for a seamless passage for students to move between the different parts of post-compulsory education that are currently available , where , sometimes , those students find barriers . lynne neagle am : okay , janet ? janet finch-saunders am : thank you—that 's great , thank you . lynne neagle am : we 've got some questions now around hefcw 's powers of intervention from dawn bowden . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . we received substantial evidence from hefcw suggesting that powers were inflexible and hard to use—i think hefcw called them 'threatening'—saying that they make sanctions difficult to use and so on . are you satisfied that hefcw 's powers are useful on a preventative day-to-day basis ? kirsty williams am : if i may disagree slightly , i do n't think their powers are frightening . it 's very clear what powers are available to hefcw , and they 're certainly more than just the ability to , maybe , lean on an institution . clearly , there is a system by which there is the ability to , you know , ramp up and escalate levels of intervention in the sector by hefcw , but i certainly would n't describe them as inflexible or not having weight . dawn bowden am : i think they were saying it was difficult to use for swift interventions—they found it a bit cumbersome . they explained to us that they often take informal measures or actions in their role as regulator , and they 've explained that the small size of the sector enables good relationships to be developed . how can such measures work in the tertiary education body when there clearly will be many more than the 10 providers ? kirsty williams am : well , looking ahead to the new bill , i would want to see and be very keen to ensure that there are sufficiently flexible—did you use the word soft—and soft regulatory powers that the commission could exercise . those powers , for instance , could include the ability to offer advice and guidance , rather than , maybe , punitive interventions , and powers to undertake enhanced monitoring of institutions to ensure compliance with regulatory conditions . so , i would expect the commission to be able to have a series of abilities to intervene , from the soft , flexible type , which is non-punitive but actually allows people to go in and support institutions , through to something that would be , as i said , more punitive , if they felt that an institution was in danger of not providing quality or financial failure . hefin david am : can i just come in there , on the point that was made ? the issue that seemed to me to come from hefcw and from the universities is that the dial seems to have only three steps . so , rather than having a graduated series of actions that they can take , it seems to step from—what did he call it—a 'meeting without coffee ' to— kirsty williams am : that 's a very hefcw thing to say . hefin david am : —potentially institutions going bankrupt , and there do n't seem to be many steps in between that . i 'd invite you to say whether you 'd like to remedy that in future . kirsty williams am : i think , as i said at the beginning of the session , this is why this post-legislative scrutiny is useful , because we can reflect on that feedback . as i said , i would expect to be able to ensure that the commission had a range of powers that could address—from that soft power and those early conversations to being able to , as i said , issue , perhaps , advice and guidance to an institution , so there would be a more graduated escalation . huw , is there anything else that i 've missed out ? huw morris : just to build on what the minister has said , there 's a range of ways in which we interact with all institutions that are going to be in the tertiary sector , and some of that is about providing information . so , hefcw provides information—it sends around circulars , it produces reports and it holds events . there 's staff , management and leadership development activity , which can create a culture amongst the leaders of institutions , but also amongst their governing bodies , to help them move in a particular direction . we would hope that 's in the direction of the civic university approach that the minister has outlined . we use those mechanisms and informal interactions with fe college principals , with the work-based learning provider network , with sixth forms and others , and we would want to see , i hope , in the tertiary sector some alignment of those things . when things go badly wrong , there are a range of mechanisms . i think what stands behind hefcw 's comments is that before we had a loan-based system of student finance , there was a system of block grant allocations and conditions could be attached to those grant allocations by hefcw . i do n't think we 're going to be going back to that system in the foreseeable future because of the pressures on public finances— hefin david am : that was n't how i understood it . i understood it to be the fact that you use these informal powers and then the next step up is quite a severe sanction and there 's not much in between those . huw morris : so , in— . shall i carry on ? kirsty williams am : of course , yes . huw morris : in the hazelkorn review , there 's quite a lot of focus on that and looking to learn from other national systems where outcome agreements provide a broader measure of the range of things the institutions do and a mechanism for tracking how things are done through the provision of information back to the institution to help them know how they 're doing . and potentially , in some of these other institutions , funding is linked to some of those things . kirsty williams am : and , of course , what always has to be— . what we have to strike the balance of as well is at what point those powers seem to be—and the ability to direct—interfering with the principle of autonomy within an institution . so , there 's that balance to be struck , is n't there , about creating a regulatory regime , which i 'm very keen and the act attempted to do , which was to enshrine institutional autonomy , and that 's really , really important , but also a regulatory regime , the ability to influence and to develop and to deliver national outcomes and the power to intervene in that sector , which you know , better than probably anybody else in this room , guards that institutional autonomy very , very , very dear indeed . and that 's the balance that we need to try and strike as we go forward with the new commission proposals . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . dawn . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . i think , in terms of the levels of measures—and i understand what you 're saying—but i think what hefcw were saying was that they try as far as possible to use informal measures and they are able to do that because of the size of the sector—just 10 institutions to work with . the post-16 sector , however many we 're talking—50 plus providers—it 's probably going to be less likely that they would be able to have that sort of relationship with the leaders in those institutions . so , the informal measures might not be as prevalent as they are currently , possibly . kirsty williams am : yes , but also , what 's incumbent upon me as the minister is to ensure that the commission is set up in a way where it can have that relationship with the sector , because what 's really important to remember is that hefcw will be replaced . we 're not asking hefcw suddenly to go from regulating a small number of institutions to suddenly regulating 50 . we 'll be creating a commission that will be structured in such a way that it can have those relationships . because , of course , whilst hefcw will face changes , our relationship with and how we manage the fe sector and the apprenticeship sector will also shift . so , the point is that we need to create a commission that will still be able to be close to the sector , close enough to be able to provide that soft regulation , those really important relationships in a way— . so , it has to be created in such a way and resourced in such a way that it allows that to happen , and that 's my intention . dawn bowden am : okay . well , then , of course , the university of wales said to us that they felt that there was the potential for hefcw to issue directions enforceable by injunction to remedy minor matters . so , i think , from what you 're saying , you would n't be expecting that to happen . just the fact that they 've got the power does n't necessarily mean that that 's what they 're going to do . kirsty williams am : well , i think it 's important to recognise when hefcw can enforce its directions by way of an injunction . if they were to do that because a university was breaking fee limits or because there were real questions about the quality of the provision or whether a university was not complying with the financial management code—personally , i would n't describe those as minor matters , as a minister , if we had an institution that was significantly falling down on quality and hefcw were using these powers to intervene . i would n't describe that as a minor matter . dawn bowden am : no . that 's fair enough . and , actually , on that point , we 've had some recent high-profile issues in swansea and trinity st david , and hefcw still have n't yet used their powers of intervention . do you find that surprising ? kirsty williams am : i think what they have done in these circumstances is , perhaps , used their ability to support those institutions through what , undoubtedly , have been challenging times . given the fact that there are ongoing legal processes attached to swansea university , i think it would not be appropriate for me to comment any further , because there are still matters in train with regard to that institution . but clearly , our expectation on hefcw is to ensure that they are using their powers to support those universities , and i would expect them , if they felt necessary , to use the full remit of their powers if they felt that that was what they needed to do . now , i have to trust their professional judgment that that has not been necessary to date , but our expectation is that they would do that if they felt it was necessary . dawn bowden am : okay . thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : hefin david has some questions now on fee and access plans . hefin david am : are you concerned that neither the regulator nor the sector seem to have any confidence in fee and access plans ? kirsty williams am : i think the concept of a fee and access plan is an important concept . whether we can do them better , whether we can reflect on what 's happened to date and create a better system of what 's included in a fee and access plan and how those fee and access plans can be monitored , there 's an opportunity to do that in forthcoming legislation . hefin david am : so , have you been aware of specific issues yourself ? have they brought them to you ? kirsty williams am : well , no , not in the sense that they 've brought them to me to talk about specifically . from my perspective , fee and access plans are focused very much on inputs , and , really , i 'd like to think about outputs and outcomes , more importantly—what are the outcomes of the fee and access plan , not necessarily just how much money has been spent on them . i think , certainly , to really understand the success of the fee and access plan , you have to question whether an annual basis is an appropriate timescale for a university to be working to , and whether we could have something that was focused over a longer period of time . because , when you think about it , you write the plan and then you 're into it , and then , the next thing you know , you 're writing your next year 's plan . so , i think there 's an opportunity there to look to restructure . so , do i see a place for fee and access plans going forward , as part of our outcome agreements ? yes , i do . can we do them differently to make them more effective ? yes , i think we can . hefin david am : so , why would introducing outcome agreements make them work any better ? kirsty williams am : well , i think they 're going to be a part of an outcome agreement—part of that wider expectation . so , fee and access plans are there to address an issue around , primarily , changing the nature of people who go to university and making sure that nobody is put off from pursuing that . so , that 's part of a wider piece of work that i 'd want to see as an outcome agreement . but , as i said , i think looking at outcomes for students and outcomes of that activity , rather than the inputs of the activity , over a longer period of time , is probably a more effective way of doing it . i think it 's still— . in a way , it 's difficult to make a final judgment on whether fee and access plans in their current format have worked , because we need to know what 'll happen to those students in the future . but undoubtedly , despite the limitations of them , i do think we 're making progress in terms of access , but i do n't think we can necessarily point to the fee and access plans as being the driver for some of those improvements . hefin david am : no , i appreciate that , and some of the things you 're saying reflect some of the discussions we 've had , but what was clear is that the process and bureaucratic nature of the way you present fee and access plans does n't work , particularly given the fact that , four years on , early fee and access plans are still being evaluated . there 's a real problem there . so , what you 're saying—can i just pin down what you 're saying—is that we may be moving away from yearly fee and access plans to something that 's longer term and outcome focused . kirsty williams am : that 's my preference . so , i think the principle—i 'd like to think we can all agree around the principle of what a fee and access plan is hoping to achieve , but i think there are better ways of doing it , and i think we should take the opportunity of reform to look at how we can do it better . hefin david am : so , with that in mind , i think we 're talking about the future of the bill , the consultation on the pcet reforms closed in summer 2018—with these important issues in mind and things that are currently ongoing , have you had further dialogue since then with key stakeholders like , for example , universities wales and others ? kirsty williams am : on the bill or on fee and access plans in particular ? hefin david am : i 'm thinking about fee and access plans as an issue that suggests that there is a need for deep consultation , so with that in mind , with things like that , have you had further discussion ? kirsty williams am : oh my goodness me , civil servants in the department are constantly in discussion with a range of stakeholders as we continue to develop legislative proposals . i meet on a regular basis with both hefcw—i meet separately with the vice-chancellors , and i 've been very keen to develop a stronger working relationship with chairs , and perhaps we 'll come on to issues of governance later . so , we are constantly discussing with stakeholders all options for change— hefin david am : i suppose the message i 'm getting as chair of the cross-party group on higher education is that there could still be more direct consultation with stakeholders . that 's the message i 've received . now , i 've got no evidence to say it has or has n't happened , but that 's the message i 've received . huw morris : if i could just chip in for a moment , the minister 's outlined that there is very extensive , ongoing communication both ways with the sector , but the challenge of preparing a bill is the balancing act between gathering in information—and there 's been a general consultation process and a technical consultation process—and wanting to make sure that the bill that 's laid next year has n't been discussed with anybody else before it comes to be considered by the senedd . so , the broad principles have been discussed , but specific details of what goes into a bill or policy instructions that inform a bill have n't been the subject of consultation— hefin david am : because that happens at stage 1 . huw morris : indeed , yes . hefin david am : okay . sorry , can i move on to the next item ? lynne neagle am : oh , you 're going on to the next section . hefin david am : yes , unless there 's anything specific— lynne neagle am : yes , i just wanted to clarify , if we 're moving to a longer term approach to this , how will the new body be able to establish that things are actually working , that the powers are working , if we 're working on a five-year time frame ? kirsty williams am : as we 've heard , we ca n't really properly assess fee and access plans in the current arrangements , because it takes time for those cohorts of students to go through and activities to go through . being able to move to a system where fee and access plans , for instance , could be over a three-year period i think allows universities to be more strategic in some of their investments and some of their activities around fee and access . in a single-year plan , it 's almost knee-jerk , it 's the need to demonstrate that you 're doing something , and doing that within that period of time , rather than a more strategic view— . can i just say , i know it 's not quite subject to this , but we 're really moving forward in terms of access and broadening access into the he sector . for me , student financial support is one aspect of it , but if we 're really thinking about social mobility and attracting people into higher education that have never been part of higher education before , our early figures would suggest—they 're early figures , and they 're subject to change , but in terms of our change to our student support regime , we have seen a 58 per cent increase in the number of postgraduates applying for student support in wales . when you think about it , when many of us went to university , a degree was the thing that set you apart . now that more and more students are going to university , it is that postgraduate qualification that sets you apart , but your ability to carry on studying is often limited by access to financial support , so a 58 per cent increase in postgraduate i think is great for those individuals , but it 's also great for our economy . we 've seen a 35 per cent increase in part-time undergraduates that have been supported by the student loans company ; the open university have reported a 67 per cent increase in students from wales 's most economically disadvantaged areas registering with them ; a 57 per cent increase in disabled students ; and a 30 per cent increase in black , minority ethnic learners . so , i think that 's a really , really positive basis for our sector to continue to work on broadening access . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . sorry , hefin—carry on . hefin david am : i 'll move on to managing risk , if that 's okay . the feedback from universities wales suggests that , with the outcome of the 2015 act , institutions with the strongest track records are more highly regulated than the riskier private alternative providers . do you think that act has struck the right balance ? kirsty williams am : i think the act has created a system where the level of regulation is proportional to the amount and the nature of public moneys received by institutions . hefin david am : okay . those were the words used by universities wales— kirsty williams am : no , no , i 'm not disagreeing . my view is : i believe that the act has struck that proportionality . when you look at public moneys going into institutions , i think that the act is proportionate , myself . hefin david am : so , do you think it 's in the interests of students , then , to be at private institutions— ? i 've seen those private institutions and how they operate ; i 've seen them at first-hand—they do n't operate to the same rigour as public institutions , and they 're less regulated . huw morris : can i just chip in ? i think that the category 'private ' covers quite a wide range of things , and many private institutions are also charities . we do n't have the presence of some of the large private charities that are present in other countries , but stanford and harvard would count as private universities . so , i think we need to be careful in focusing on the inherent quality of things . we 've made charitable status a key reference point in the operation of things at the moment . i think there has been attention drawn to some private providers , particularly in england , but i would n't tar them all with the same brush , necessarily . hefin david am : but they fall outwith—if they 're not charitable providers running validated courses , for example , they fall outwith the strength of regulation that is currently in place on the universities in wales . kirsty williams am : so , we would regulate them on a course-by-course basis , so it 's back to the issue of proportionality , is n't it ? so , you are automatically regulated for all your courses , if you 're one of our main universities , but there is a process that is run by hefcw on a course-by-course basis to validate alternative providers . and as huw said , i think we should recognise the nature of that is very , very , very small in wales , and there is a process to ensure quality provision . if there were concerns about the quality of that provision , that course could be deregulated . hefin david am : and i 'm aware that there are a small number of private institutions in wales , but are you concerned that in the future the landscape may change , particularly with the opportunity to recruit more part-time students ? do you think the landscape may change in future and that the 2015 act , as designed , was n't equipped for that , and will the next act , then , be equipped ? kirsty williams am : i think it 's right to say that maybe the previous legislation did n't futureproof for changes . i 'm not anticipating a mass influx of alternative providers , in the sense that we 've seen across the border , but we will need to ensure that the new commission has powers to regulate and to futureproof . hefin david am : okay . thank you , chair . dawn bowden am : thank you . we had some evidence from the university and college union that were concerned about the governance of universities , actually , as being a bigger problem than the regulatory framework in many ways . can you tell us , perhaps , how the he act addresses the issue of poor governance , or is it really just limited to responding to the symptoms rather than the poor governance itself ? kirsty williams am : well , i think it 's true and fair to say that the bill does not directly address issues around governance in the sector . hefcw do have well-established assurance practices in relation to governance that would predate the 2015 legislation . but governance—we 've talked briefly about some recent history within the sector that i think has certainly brought the issue of governance to the fore once again , and i think there are two important things that we 're trying to do about that in the current time , prior to any legislative changes . the first is , as i just said to hefin , i have sought to have a more direct relationship with chairs of universities and have that one-to-one relationship with them , not in the presence of their vice-chancellors . i challenge them , they challenge me , and i think we 've deliberately tried to establish a regular routine of that since i took office . and you 'll be aware that , collaboratively—and i 'm glad that this has been done in this way because i think if you do it this way , we 're more likely to get some success and change—universities wales and hefcw have worked together to undertake an independent review of governance . and i think it 's really important that parties have come together to recognise the issues and to agree to take action , because i think if we 'd have tried to impose something , we 'd have more resistance . so , there is an independent review going on at the moment— dawn bowden am : is that the risk review process in— ? kirsty williams am : that 's the gillian camm review . this is a review that , as i said , universities wales and hefcw have agreed to do together . it 's chaired by gillian camm , who is the chair of the leadership foundation for higher education , and she is doing an independent review to advise on changes to governance . and i welcome that , i 'm very supportive of that , and that 's happening at the moment . as i said , i 'm glad that there 's been recognition from within the sector themselves that they need to make sure , and they need to give confidence , that governance arrangements are what they should be . dawn bowden am : so , is that something that you 're going to be taking into the pcet bill , do you think ? kirsty williams am : yes , absolutely . we 're exploring how the bill could introduce a regulatory condition in respect of good governance , and a commission would be able to set expectations with regard to good governance . i think one of the concerns for me—and i know that this is a concern that is shared by the ucu—is the diversity of governance and who finds themselves in these really important positions . hefcw do n't hold figures on it , but from an approximation that i 've asked officials to do for me , currently in the universities that we have , i would say that men make up around 56 per cent of membership of universities ' governing bodies ; women—44 per cent ; bme—as low as 4 per cent . of course , in individual institutions , it does vary , but i think there is some way to go to making sure that our governing bodies are diverse and that there 's an opportunity to look at the student voice in governance going forward , the staff voice in governance going forward , and these are things that we hope to have discussions on whilst we bring the legislation forward . dawn bowden am : but also , i guess—sorry , chair—a greater understanding , that anybody going in to become a governor of one of these institutions has a greater understanding of what is expected of them . do you think that that 's a gap that needs to be plugged ? huw morris : one of the things that hefcw have led on with advancehe , the body that encompasses the leadership foundation , is a development programme for governing bodies , and that started earlier—well , it 's been going on for some time , but it was recommenced earlier this year , with a session for all of the chairs of universities in wales . and i believe—i 'll need to check this—that there are plans to engage with each of the governing bodies , because , as you rightly say , and this lies behind a lot of what we 've been discussing , the activities of these institutions have become much more complex over recent years , and so there is a need for that training and development and understanding also of the fast-changing nature of that activity . dawn bowden am : thank you . lynne neagle am : okay , just before we move on , can i ask whether it 's your plan to legislate on that , as they 've done in scotland ? kirsty williams am : as i said , i do n't want to pre-empt scrutiny of the bill , because we need to be able to come to the committee and do that in the entirety , rather than picking off individual bits of it , but we are absolutely exploring how the bill could introduce a regulatory condition with regard to governance . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you very much . we 've got some questions now from siân on quality assurance . sian gwenllian am : okay . we 've heard evidence regarding the difficulties caused by hefcw having a legal duty to quality-assure all the provision in two further education colleges . that sounds to me like some kind of an anomaly or an unintended consequence of the act . could you clarify that and explain the situation in that instance ? kirsty williams am : thank you . my understanding—and as i said , it 's a bit difficult , because i ca n't put myself into the thought process of the minister at the time and what his expectation was . but , certainly , my understanding is that it was not an unintended consequence , it was an expectation built into the act that hefcw and estyn would work together on these matters . the act built on what were the quality assessment arrangements in the 1992 act , which required hefcw to secure arrangements for the assessment of the quality of education provided by funding institutions . so , as a consequence of that approach , hefcw 's quality assessment duty currently encompasses all the education provided by or on behalf of a regulated institution . so , it is complicated , and huw can help me out here if i get it wrong , but my understanding is that it was not an unintended consequence , that was the expectation of what would happen when the legislation was passed . huw . huw morris : i would completely agree with what the minister has said . kirsty williams am : as always . [ laughter . ] at least in public , huw . huw morris : there is the expectation that they will work together in concert . there 's a lot of joint operation . i think , going forward , we would expect that to continue . we 're looking to the new bill to try to make that clearer . that was a theme in the general and technical consultation exercises that we 've engaged in over the last couple of years . sian gwenllian am : so , you 're happy , therefore , that that partnership has worked . are you happy with that ? kirsty williams am : certainly , in our consultation for the upcoming act , we 've generally heard , certainly from our further education colleges , that they 've been quite content with the arrangements . no concerns about it , certainly from further education colleges . huw morris : there are differences in the systems of quality assurance as they 've historically applied to fe and he , but i understand that that has meant that , as fe colleges become more interested in he , they 've had to learn new ways , and that 's taken a little bit of time . but , i 'm not aware of any dissatisfaction . sian gwenllian am : okay , which moves us on to this idea of having one quality assurance body or one quality assurance framework . is that your intention and how will that work in practice ? kirsty williams am : i am aware , and we 've listened to stakeholders ' concerns regarding proposals to introduce a single quality assessment body . as i said , we recognise that stakeholders are broadly content with the current situation with regard to estyn and qaa . so , we 've been listening to that , following the technical consultation , and policy officials are working through options in regard to ensuring what quality assurance will look like in the commission . as i said , i do n't want to pre-empt bringing forward the legislation , but the principles underlying any assurance regime would need to be coherent , need to be effective and need to be comprehensive . what we 're also very clear about , and i think it is important to say , is that any quality framework covering higher education will be compatible with enqa , which i think is really , really important going forward . and by an extension of that , it would be compatible with current uk-wide baseline standards . so , we do n't want to create specific problems for the he sector in wales . sian gwenllian am : but , you have touched on this , there is substantial concern in the sector about this offer to move to one assurance body for the tertiary sector . one vice-chancellor has told us : kirsty williams am : well , sometimes , i think it is necessary , maybe , to cause a stir . if we do n't change things , it does beg the point of , 'why are any of us here if we 're not here to sometimes move things forward ? ' and change is challenging always , but i would like to reassure all of our vice-chancellors and our sector as a whole that we 're not going to do anything in the quality assurance regime that would risk what is the very high reputation and standards that welsh universities currently comply with or would set them apart from institutions across the border or in a european context . huw . huw morris : i agree , obviously . i think the fear is misplaced , but coming back to another theme in the conversation so far about futureproofing , what we 're seeing in the figures that the minister outlined to you earlier about the growth in postgraduate and the growth in part-time is the desire of a greater number of people at different ages to engage in higher and tertiary education , and quite often that will be in a workplace or it will be in a non-conventional institutional setting . historically , the quality assurance regimes for work-based learning have tended to sit with estyn ; the assurance regimes for the universities have sat with the qaa . there 's quite a lot of learning that all sides have got to engage in if we 're going to be able to have continued high quality in these new areas that are being explored . that 's an issue not just in wales . the augar report , which was published earlier this year in england , drew attention to this as being a major problem in the relationship over the border between ofsted and the qaa . so , i think we 're not looking to impose one institution on anybody , but we are looking to encourage greater synergy in the ways in which quality assurance and enhancement is undertaken in those different areas of activity . sian gwenllian am : and finally , therefore , looking at overseas providers . currently , of course , universities can award their degrees to students being taught by providers overseas . we know this created problems for the university of wales in 2011 . they faced a scandal ; that 's probably the best word to use there . will the new bill address these issues ? kirsty williams am : well , certainly transnational education does present real opportunities for welsh institutions , but if not managed appropriately and regulated appropriately can cause real risks to reputation to our sector . when i meet with vice-chancellors in universities in different parts of the world , and when i am visiting different countries , one of the great things that i 'm able to say is that we have a sector that provides fantastic quality of teaching , excellence in research and a wonderful student experience , and that is undermined if institutions find themselves undertaking tne activities that put that at risk . so , it 's an important consideration for the health of the whole sector that any tne undertaken by a welsh institution has the appropriate quality guarantees built into that because it 's a problem not just for an individual institution , but it could undermine the very strong reputation that the welsh sector has as a whole . huw , was there anything further about tne ? huw morris : well , just to say that we are live to that , as i know hefcw and the qaa are . we 've had conversations with both in the recent past . there is quality assurance of offshore activity through the qaa . when they visit institutions with their reviews they will look at a selection of those overseas activities and there are periodic thematic reviews of the activity in particular countries . i think we would hope and believe that hefcw , in its conversations with the qaa , would be keeping that under review to minimise the risk and maximise the opportunities . sian gwenllian am : so , you 're not actually looking to use the new legislation to strengthen the regulation around this . huw morris : the arrangements at the moment are that hefcw uses the qaa to do the reviews and the inspections . i do n't think we 're currently looking to mandate the detail of how that should happen . the system at the moment works through co-operation between the institutions and the regulator to make sure the quality assurance system is improving and enhancing things . i think we would look to that as a primary mechanism . sian gwenllian am : okay . thank you . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . are there any other questions from members ? no . okay . well , can i thank you both for attending this morning and answering all our questions ? as usual , you will be sent a transcript to check for accuracy following the meeting , but thank you both for your attendance this morning . kirsty williams am : thank you . </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the advantage of the act ? </s>  </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the weakness of the act ? </s> sian gwenllian am : do you feel perhaps that the legislation itself has n't been strong enough , and that you then have had to drive some of these objectives through the annual remit letter , rather than through legislation , and that 's why the strengthening is required ? kirsty williams am : certainly , i see the remit letter as a really , really important way in which national priorities and the priorities of an elected government can be clearly stated , communicated to the higher education funding council for wales , and then hefcw use their powers to ensure that that happens . so , certainly , i see the remit letter as being a very important mechanism for ensuring , as i said , that those national priorities are clearly articulated , and then change happens . sian gwenllian am : has the current legislation been framed around institutional autonomy so that it 's not possible for institutions to fulfil any national outcomes , and is that going to be an element of the new bill ? kirsty williams am : well , certainly , the 2015 act contains numerous provisions that protect universities ' privileges and autonomy . and that 's really important , and those are principles that i am committed to in any legislation that i bring forward . we 'll certainly be looking to see how we can carry those protections into the forthcoming bill , but , at the same time , we do have to ensure appropriate regulation and accountability of institutions for their public funding and the privileges that they enjoy . and i think there are a number of ways in which that can happen . we have a very positive working relationship with the higher education funding council for wales , and i am very fortunate to have a very positive working relationship with the sector . the remit letters are a really important way in which we can lay out those national priorities . i do n't think there 's anything in the legislation per se that prevents those national priorities being articulated and being acted upon . sian gwenllian am : i do n't think that 's what hefcw has said in their evidence . they 've said that the bill has been framed in a way where it 's not possible for institutions to fulfil any requirements . you 're talking about the remit letter ; maybe you need to have that discussion there , but , in terms of the bill itself , you ca n't make them fulfil any national outcomes . should n't there be a discussion looking to move in a direction where there are national outcomes being set through legislation , because there is public money going into that ? kirsty williams am : well , i do n't know whether we need national outcomes through legislation , because those national priorities , potentially , will change over time . what is really important , and what we will be seeking to do in the new legislation , is look to move to a system of outcome agreements . so , there is a very clear expectation that the commission will have , in regulating the sector , and co-ordinating and funding the sector , to create a system of outcome agreements , where those outputs will reflect national priorities , and that 's one of the things that we 've consulted on , and will look to take forward in the new legislation . sian gwenllian am : okay . that 's clear enough . what about private providers ? the act , or the act as it stands , makes it a requirement for a regulated institution to be a charity , and that means it 's not possible to regulate alternative private providers under the act , even though they can provide higher education in wales . what is your view on this , and will the new legislation continue with the requirement of being a charity ? kirsty williams am : okay . so , i think , first of all , it 's important to make the distinction between the scale of private providers , and what could be termed as 'unregulated providers ' in the welsh system , as opposed to the english system . and i think that 's a really important distinction to make . so , currently , under the current legislation , unregulated providers can only access welsh government student support if they 're designated on a case-by-case basis . so , we do have a circumstance where—and a process in place , to manage this . so , we have a specific designation policy , which is operated on our behalf by hefcw . only six organisations were designated on a case-by-case basis in the 2018-19 academic year , so the scale here is small . three of those were further education colleges . so , when we talk about a private provider , perhaps people would have a view of a private university , but , actually , three of those were fe colleges , which we would all be familiar with . and the three private providers were the centre for alternative technology , the training arm of the church in wales and the newport and district group training association . all three of those are actual charities . so , in order for their courses to be specifically designated , the three crucial questions that those providers have to answer are : quality—is what they ’ re providing to students of a good quality ; the financial viability of the institution , again , to try to protect the interests of the students who may find themselves embarking on a course in an institution that isn ’ t viable ; as well as their contribution to private—sorry , not to private good—public good . and we are considering how that part of the sector will be regulated in the forthcoming legislation . but , huw , i do n't know if there 's anything else to add ? huw morris : well , just to say that there are a very small number of private providers , as the minister has outlined , and , in comparison with england , where i think the last figures said that there were between 300 and 400 private providers in england , you get a sense of the differences that exist there . and , if you look at what happened over recent years , it has been those small private providers across the uk who have been most financially challenged and a number of them have stopped their operations , with consequences for the students . so , we ’ ve been keen to put students at the front of things to make sure that the institutions that they ’ re enrolling with are strong and have good quality . </s>
<s> what had the act and the bill already achieved ? </s>  </s>
<s> how could the act and the bill be improved ? </s> kirsty williams am : well , it 's not something i wish i could do ; i think that we 're doing it . self-praise is no recommendation , but , because of the working relationship that we have , i think we 're seeing some success in using the remit letter to influence national outcomes . so , i 've just talked about living wage ; we 're also using our remit letter to drive transparency over senior leaders ' pay , the gender pay gap within institutions . for instance , as part of this government 's commitment to improving mental health , we 've been able to use the remit letter and some funding to be able to drive change and some improvements in mental health in the higher education sector . these are national priorities and we 're acting upon them and we 're using the multiple levers we have at the moment to engage in universities . and , i have to say , universities have risen to that challenge , and i 'm very grateful to them for doing that . i think we can strengthen our sector by closer collaboration . i think what sets us apart in wales is that this government is determined to create a legislative regime and a regulation regime that encourages collaboration and co-operation , which is in stark contrast to the marketisation and the competition that we see being regulated for and legislated for across the border in england . that 's one of the reasons why we are going to introduce the new pcet reforms—to create collaboration , not just between different higher education institutes but actually across the sector . so , this is a prime opportunity where we can create a framework that demands and encourages collaboration , not just , as i said , in between individual institutions but across the entirety of the sector . we 're doing that because that means we can avoid duplication , we can fill gaps that there currently are and we can create a system that allows for a seamless passage for students to move between the different parts of post-compulsory education that are currently available , where , sometimes , those students find barriers . </s>
<s> what was the current situation about hefcw 's powers of intervention ? </s> dawn bowden am : i think they were saying it was difficult to use for swift interventions—they found it a bit cumbersome . they explained to us that they often take informal measures or actions in their role as regulator , and they 've explained that the small size of the sector enables good relationships to be developed . how can such measures work in the tertiary education body when there clearly will be many more than the 10 providers ? kirsty williams am : well , looking ahead to the new bill , i would want to see and be very keen to ensure that there are sufficiently flexible—did you use the word soft—and soft regulatory powers that the commission could exercise . those powers , for instance , could include the ability to offer advice and guidance , rather than , maybe , punitive interventions , and powers to undertake enhanced monitoring of institutions to ensure compliance with regulatory conditions . so , i would expect the commission to be able to have a series of abilities to intervene , from the soft , flexible type , which is non-punitive but actually allows people to go in and support institutions , through to something that would be , as i said , more punitive , if they felt that an institution was in danger of not providing quality or financial failure . hefin david am : can i just come in there , on the point that was made ? the issue that seemed to me to come from hefcw and from the universities is that the dial seems to have only three steps . so , rather than having a graduated series of actions that they can take , it seems to step from—what did he call it—a 'meeting without coffee ' to— kirsty williams am : that 's a very hefcw thing to say . hefin david am : —potentially institutions going bankrupt , and there do n't seem to be many steps in between that . i 'd invite you to say whether you 'd like to remedy that in future . kirsty williams am : i think , as i said at the beginning of the session , this is why this post-legislative scrutiny is useful , because we can reflect on that feedback . as i said , i would expect to be able to ensure that the commission had a range of powers that could address—from that soft power and those early conversations to being able to , as i said , issue , perhaps , advice and guidance to an institution , so there would be a more graduated escalation . huw , is there anything else that i 've missed out ? </s>
<s> what did the meeting talk about to control hefcw 's powers of intervention ? </s> huw morris : in the hazelkorn review , there 's quite a lot of focus on that and looking to learn from other national systems where outcome agreements provide a broader measure of the range of things the institutions do and a mechanism for tracking how things are done through the provision of information back to the institution to help them know how they 're doing . and potentially , in some of these other institutions , funding is linked to some of those things . kirsty williams am : and , of course , what always has to be— . what we have to strike the balance of as well is at what point those powers seem to be—and the ability to direct—interfering with the principle of autonomy within an institution . so , there 's that balance to be struck , is n't there , about creating a regulatory regime , which i 'm very keen and the act attempted to do , which was to enshrine institutional autonomy , and that 's really , really important , but also a regulatory regime , the ability to influence and to develop and to deliver national outcomes and the power to intervene in that sector , which you know , better than probably anybody else in this room , guards that institutional autonomy very , very , very dear indeed . and that 's the balance that we need to try and strike as we go forward with the new commission proposals . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . dawn . dawn bowden am : thank you , chair . i think , in terms of the levels of measures—and i understand what you 're saying—but i think what hefcw were saying was that they try as far as possible to use informal measures and they are able to do that because of the size of the sector—just 10 institutions to work with . the post-16 sector , however many we 're talking—50 plus providers—it 's probably going to be less likely that they would be able to have that sort of relationship with the leaders in those institutions . so , the informal measures might not be as prevalent as they are currently , possibly . kirsty williams am : yes , but also , what 's incumbent upon me as the minister is to ensure that the commission is set up in a way where it can have that relationship with the sector , because what 's really important to remember is that hefcw will be replaced . we 're not asking hefcw suddenly to go from regulating a small number of institutions to suddenly regulating 50 . we 'll be creating a commission that will be structured in such a way that it can have those relationships . because , of course , whilst hefcw will face changes , our relationship with and how we manage the fe sector and the apprenticeship sector will also shift . so , the point is that we need to create a commission that will still be able to be close to the sector , close enough to be able to provide that soft regulation , those really important relationships in a way— . so , it has to be created in such a way and resourced in such a way that it allows that to happen , and that 's my intention . dawn bowden am : okay . well , then , of course , the university of wales said to us that they felt that there was the potential for hefcw to issue directions enforceable by injunction to remedy minor matters . so , i think , from what you 're saying , you would n't be expecting that to happen . just the fact that they 've got the power does n't necessarily mean that that 's what they 're going to do . kirsty williams am : well , i think it 's important to recognise when hefcw can enforce its directions by way of an injunction . if they were to do that because a university was breaking fee limits or because there were real questions about the quality of the provision or whether a university was not complying with the financial management code—personally , i would n't describe those as minor matters , as a minister , if we had an institution that was significantly falling down on quality and hefcw were using these powers to intervene . i would n't describe that as a minor matter . dawn bowden am : no . that 's fair enough . and , actually , on that point , we 've had some recent high-profile issues in swansea and trinity st david , and hefcw still have n't yet used their powers of intervention . do you find that surprising ? </s>
<s> what did hefin david am concern about the fee and access plans ? </s> kirsty williams am : well , no , not in the sense that they 've brought them to me to talk about specifically . from my perspective , fee and access plans are focused very much on inputs , and , really , i 'd like to think about outputs and outcomes , more importantly—what are the outcomes of the fee and access plan , not necessarily just how much money has been spent on them . i think , certainly , to really understand the success of the fee and access plan , you have to question whether an annual basis is an appropriate timescale for a university to be working to , and whether we could have something that was focused over a longer period of time . because , when you think about it , you write the plan and then you 're into it , and then , the next thing you know , you 're writing your next year 's plan . so , i think there 's an opportunity there to look to restructure . so , do i see a place for fee and access plans going forward , as part of our outcome agreements ? yes , i do . can we do them differently to make them more effective ? yes , i think we can . hefin david am : so , why would introducing outcome agreements make them work any better ? kirsty williams am : well , i think they 're going to be a part of an outcome agreement—part of that wider expectation . so , fee and access plans are there to address an issue around , primarily , changing the nature of people who go to university and making sure that nobody is put off from pursuing that . so , that 's part of a wider piece of work that i 'd want to see as an outcome agreement . but , as i said , i think looking at outcomes for students and outcomes of that activity , rather than the inputs of the activity , over a longer period of time , is probably a more effective way of doing it . i think it 's still— . in a way , it 's difficult to make a final judgment on whether fee and access plans in their current format have worked , because we need to know what 'll happen to those students in the future . but undoubtedly , despite the limitations of them , i do think we 're making progress in terms of access , but i do n't think we can necessarily point to the fee and access plans as being the driver for some of those improvements . hefin david am : no , i appreciate that , and some of the things you 're saying reflect some of the discussions we 've had , but what was clear is that the process and bureaucratic nature of the way you present fee and access plans does n't work , particularly given the fact that , four years on , early fee and access plans are still being evaluated . there 's a real problem there . so , what you 're saying—can i just pin down what you 're saying—is that we may be moving away from yearly fee and access plans to something that 's longer term and outcome focused . kirsty williams am : that 's my preference . so , i think the principle—i 'd like to think we can all agree around the principle of what a fee and access plan is hoping to achieve , but i think there are better ways of doing it , and i think we should take the opportunity of reform to look at how we can do it better . hefin david am : so , with that in mind , i think we 're talking about the future of the bill , the consultation on the pcet reforms closed in summer 2018—with these important issues in mind and things that are currently ongoing , have you had further dialogue since then with key stakeholders like , for example , universities wales and others ? kirsty williams am : on the bill or on fee and access plans in particular ? hefin david am : i 'm thinking about fee and access plans as an issue that suggests that there is a need for deep consultation , so with that in mind , with things like that , have you had further discussion ? kirsty williams am : oh my goodness me , civil servants in the department are constantly in discussion with a range of stakeholders as we continue to develop legislative proposals . i meet on a regular basis with both hefcw—i meet separately with the vice-chancellors , and i 've been very keen to develop a stronger working relationship with chairs , and perhaps we 'll come on to issues of governance later . so , we are constantly discussing with stakeholders all options for change— hefin david am : i suppose the message i 'm getting as chair of the cross-party group on higher education is that there could still be more direct consultation with stakeholders . that 's the message i 've received . now , i 've got no evidence to say it has or has n't happened , but that 's the message i 've received . </s>
<s> how did kirsty williams am plan to manage risks ? </s> hefin david am : i 'll move on to managing risk , if that 's okay . the feedback from universities wales suggests that , with the outcome of the 2015 act , institutions with the strongest track records are more highly regulated than the riskier private alternative providers . do you think that act has struck the right balance ? kirsty williams am : i think the act has created a system where the level of regulation is proportional to the amount and the nature of public moneys received by institutions . hefin david am : okay . those were the words used by universities wales— kirsty williams am : no , no , i 'm not disagreeing . my view is : i believe that the act has struck that proportionality . when you look at public moneys going into institutions , i think that the act is proportionate , myself . hefin david am : so , do you think it 's in the interests of students , then , to be at private institutions— ? i 've seen those private institutions and how they operate ; i 've seen them at first-hand—they do n't operate to the same rigour as public institutions , and they 're less regulated . huw morris : can i just chip in ? i think that the category 'private ' covers quite a wide range of things , and many private institutions are also charities . we do n't have the presence of some of the large private charities that are present in other countries , but stanford and harvard would count as private universities . so , i think we need to be careful in focusing on the inherent quality of things . we 've made charitable status a key reference point in the operation of things at the moment . i think there has been attention drawn to some private providers , particularly in england , but i would n't tar them all with the same brush , necessarily . hefin david am : but they fall outwith—if they 're not charitable providers running validated courses , for example , they fall outwith the strength of regulation that is currently in place on the universities in wales . kirsty williams am : so , we would regulate them on a course-by-course basis , so it 's back to the issue of proportionality , is n't it ? so , you are automatically regulated for all your courses , if you 're one of our main universities , but there is a process that is run by hefcw on a course-by-course basis to validate alternative providers . and as huw said , i think we should recognise the nature of that is very , very , very small in wales , and there is a process to ensure quality provision . if there were concerns about the quality of that provision , that course could be deregulated . hefin david am : and i 'm aware that there are a small number of private institutions in wales , but are you concerned that in the future the landscape may change , particularly with the opportunity to recruit more part-time students ? do you think the landscape may change in future and that the 2015 act , as designed , was n't equipped for that , and will the next act , then , be equipped ? </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams am react in response to concerns of the governance of universities ? </s> dawn bowden am : thank you . we had some evidence from the university and college union that were concerned about the governance of universities , actually , as being a bigger problem than the regulatory framework in many ways . can you tell us , perhaps , how the he act addresses the issue of poor governance , or is it really just limited to responding to the symptoms rather than the poor governance itself ? kirsty williams am : well , i think it 's true and fair to say that the bill does not directly address issues around governance in the sector . hefcw do have well-established assurance practices in relation to governance that would predate the 2015 legislation . but governance—we 've talked briefly about some recent history within the sector that i think has certainly brought the issue of governance to the fore once again , and i think there are two important things that we 're trying to do about that in the current time , prior to any legislative changes . the first is , as i just said to hefin , i have sought to have a more direct relationship with chairs of universities and have that one-to-one relationship with them , not in the presence of their vice-chancellors . i challenge them , they challenge me , and i think we 've deliberately tried to establish a regular routine of that since i took office . and you 'll be aware that , collaboratively—and i 'm glad that this has been done in this way because i think if you do it this way , we 're more likely to get some success and change—universities wales and hefcw have worked together to undertake an independent review of governance . and i think it 's really important that parties have come together to recognise the issues and to agree to take action , because i think if we 'd have tried to impose something , we 'd have more resistance . so , there is an independent review going on at the moment— dawn bowden am : is that the risk review process in— ? kirsty williams am : that 's the gillian camm review . this is a review that , as i said , universities wales and hefcw have agreed to do together . it 's chaired by gillian camm , who is the chair of the leadership foundation for higher education , and she is doing an independent review to advise on changes to governance . and i welcome that , i 'm very supportive of that , and that 's happening at the moment . as i said , i 'm glad that there 's been recognition from within the sector themselves that they need to make sure , and they need to give confidence , that governance arrangements are what they should be . dawn bowden am : so , is that something that you 're going to be taking into the pcet bill , do you think ? kirsty williams am : yes , absolutely . we 're exploring how the bill could introduce a regulatory condition in respect of good governance , and a commission would be able to set expectations with regard to good governance . i think one of the concerns for me—and i know that this is a concern that is shared by the ucu—is the diversity of governance and who finds themselves in these really important positions . hefcw do n't hold figures on it , but from an approximation that i 've asked officials to do for me , currently in the universities that we have , i would say that men make up around 56 per cent of membership of universities ' governing bodies ; women—44 per cent ; bme—as low as 4 per cent . of course , in individual institutions , it does vary , but i think there is some way to go to making sure that our governing bodies are diverse and that there 's an opportunity to look at the student voice in governance going forward , the staff voice in governance going forward , and these are things that we hope to have discussions on whilst we bring the legislation forward . dawn bowden am : but also , i guess—sorry , chair—a greater understanding , that anybody going in to become a governor of one of these institutions has a greater understanding of what is expected of them . do you think that that 's a gap that needs to be plugged ? </s>
<s> how did sian gwenllian am ask about the quality assurance ? </s>  </s>
<s> how did kirsty williams am answer sian gwenllian am 's question about quality assurance ? </s> kirsty williams am : thank you . my understanding—and as i said , it 's a bit difficult , because i ca n't put myself into the thought process of the minister at the time and what his expectation was . but , certainly , my understanding is that it was not an unintended consequence , it was an expectation built into the act that hefcw and estyn would work together on these matters . the act built on what were the quality assessment arrangements in the 1992 act , which required hefcw to secure arrangements for the assessment of the quality of education provided by funding institutions . so , as a consequence of that approach , hefcw 's quality assessment duty currently encompasses all the education provided by or on behalf of a regulated institution . so , it is complicated , and huw can help me out here if i get it wrong , but my understanding is that it was not an unintended consequence , that was the expectation of what would happen when the legislation was passed . huw . huw morris : i would completely agree with what the minister has said . kirsty williams am : as always . [ laughter . ] at least in public , huw . </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams am say about her plan for quality assurance ? </s> kirsty williams am : i am aware , and we 've listened to stakeholders ' concerns regarding proposals to introduce a single quality assessment body . as i said , we recognise that stakeholders are broadly content with the current situation with regard to estyn and qaa . so , we 've been listening to that , following the technical consultation , and policy officials are working through options in regard to ensuring what quality assurance will look like in the commission . as i said , i do n't want to pre-empt bringing forward the legislation , but the principles underlying any assurance regime would need to be coherent , need to be effective and need to be comprehensive . what we 're also very clear about , and i think it is important to say , is that any quality framework covering higher education will be compatible with enqa , which i think is really , really important going forward . and by an extension of that , it would be compatible with current uk-wide baseline standards . so , we do n't want to create specific problems for the he sector in wales . sian gwenllian am : but , you have touched on this , there is substantial concern in the sector about this offer to move to one assurance body for the tertiary sector . one vice-chancellor has told us : kirsty williams am : well , sometimes , i think it is necessary , maybe , to cause a stir . if we do n't change things , it does beg the point of , 'why are any of us here if we 're not here to sometimes move things forward ? ' and change is challenging always , but i would like to reassure all of our vice-chancellors and our sector as a whole that we 're not going to do anything in the quality assurance regime that would risk what is the very high reputation and standards that welsh universities currently comply with or would set them apart from institutions across the border or in a european context . huw . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : we 'll call this meeting to order . welcome to the fifth meeting of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . pursuant to the order passed on monday , april20 , the committee is meeting today to consider ministerial announcements , to allow members of the committee to present petitions , and to question ministers , including the prime minister , about the covid-19 pandemic . tomorrow , may8 , dr.andreamccrady , dominion carillonneur , will give a special recital to mark the 75th anniversary of victory in europe day . victory in europe day , ve day , commemorates the formal acceptance of germany 's surrender by allied forces at the end of the second world war . while the pandemic prevents us from gathering to celebrate in person , tomorrow at noon the voice of our nation will ring out in remembrance of this milestone in our history . today 's meeting is taking place by video conference . the proceedings will be made available via the house of commons website . just so you are aware , the webcast will always show the person speaking rather than the entire committee . i would like to remind members that , as in the house of commons or committee , they should not take photos of their colleagues or film the proceedings . in order to facilitate the work of the interpreters and to allow the meeting to proceed smoothly , i would ask you to follow some instructions . the video conference will be interpreted as in normal meetings of committees and in the house . in the lower part of your screen , you can choose the language : floor , english or french . please wait until i call on you by name before you begin to speak . when you are ready to speak , click on the microphone icon to activate your microphone , or hold the space bar down while you are speaking . if you release the bar , your microphone will revert to mute , just like a walkie-talkie . honourable members , i would like to remind you that if you want to speak english , you should be on the english channel . if you want to speak french , you should be on the french channel . should you wish to alternate between the two languages , you should change the channel to the language that you are speaking each time you switch languages . please direct your remarks through the chair . should you need to request the floor outside of your designated speaking time , you should activate your mike and state that you have a point of order . if a member of the committee wishes to intervene on a point of order raised by another person , you should use the raised hand function to indicate to the chair that you wish to speak . to do this , click on the participant button at the bottom of your screen . when the list appears , you will see the raised hand option beside your name . speak slowly and clearly at all times . when you are not speaking , leave your microphone on mute . it is highly recommended that you use a headset with a microphone . you have to remember to switch languages . should any technical challenges arise , for example , in relation to interpretation , please advise the chair immediately by raising a point of order , and the technical team will work on resolving them . please note that we may need to suspend during these times in order to correct a problem . i want to remind the honourable members to mute their microphones when they are not speaking . if you get accidentally disconnected , please try to rejoin the meeting with the information you used to join initially . if you are unable to rejoin , please contact our technical support team . before we get started , please note that in the top right-hand corner of your screen is a button that you can use to change views . speaker view allows you to focus on the person currently speaking ; gallery view allows you to see a larger number of participants . you can click through the multiple pages in the gallery view to see who is on and how many more participants there are . i understand there are no ministerial announcements today . we will now proceed to presenting petitions for a period not exceeding 15 minutes . i would like to remind members that any petition presented during the meeting of the special committee must have already been certified by the clerk of petitions . in addition , to ensure a petition is considered properly presented , the certificate of the petition and each page of the petition for a petition certified in a previous parliament should be mailed to the committee no later than 6 p.m. the day before . now we 'll go to presenting petitions . mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis ( sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , cpc ) : mr . chair , five years ago when parliament passed bill c-14 , then justice minister jody wilson-raybould said that it represented a finely tuned balance between access and safeguards . it also included a five-year review . petitioners on the first petition i 'm presenting are very concerned to see bill c-7 before parliament , which removes safeguards ahead of that five-year review . petitioners specifically mention their concerns about the removal of the mandatory 10-day reflection period , which can already be waived in certain circumstances . they are concerned about reducing the number of witnesses required to oversee it and ensure that a request has been properly made . i commend that petition to the consideration of the house . the second and final petition that i will be presenting today is with respect to senate bill s-204 . this would make it a criminal offence for a person to go abroad and receive an organ from a person who did not consent . this responds specifically to concerns about organ harvesting in the people 's republic of china involving falun gong practitioners and increasing concerns that this is being or about to be applied to uighurs as well . canada can and should take action on this . petitioners are noting that in the previous parliament there were bills on this , bill c-350 and bill s-240 . now , in this parliament there is a bill , bill s-204 , and the petitioners hope that this 43rd parliament will be the one that gets it passed . the chair : we will go to ms. may . ms. elizabeth may ( saanichgulf islands , gp ) : thank you , mr . chair . it 's an honour . this is my first occasion to present a petition in our virtual format of the covid-19 committee . thank you to you and your staff , mr . chair , for developing a system that allows us to present petitions electronically . the petition i am presenting today , which was previously approved , is from a number of constituents who are concerned that we pursue the paris agreement to hold the global average temperature increase to no more than 1.5c . the paris agreement itself embeds in it the concept of just transition with a capital j and a capital t , the concept of just transition ensuring fairness and support for all workers in the fossil fuel sector . the petitioners call upon the government of canada to move forward with an act to ensure just transition and to ensure adequate funding so that workers and communities dependent on the fossil fuel sector receive meaningful support to ensure security in their lives in the transition to more sustainable energy use . thank you , mr. speaker . the chair : those are all the petitions for today . i want to thank the honourable members for their usual collaboration and now we 'll go on to mr. james bezan ( selkirkinterlakeeastman , cpc ) : on a point of order , mr . chair , on tuesday , at our covid-19 committee of the whole meeting , i was asking a question which started at 12:56:06 and was cut off at 1:00:32 , so i still have 34 seconds of time remaining in my question time of five minutes . you said it could be no more than five minutes but that i had up to five minutes . thirty-four seconds leaves a lot of time to have a quick question and a quick response . if you believe that my time was unjustly cut off and that it was unfair treatment of the official opposition when we were raising our points of order , i would ask that the 34 seconds be tacked on to the opening round for the opposition and credited to rosemarie falk , who will be leading off for the conservatives . the chair : normally what happens is the chair uses judgment , and with 35 seconds , there is n't enough time obviously for a full question or answer , most of the time . i 'll take it under advisement . i ca n't allot it . i want everyone to know that i do have a timer next to me and i am timing the questions , and i will be treating the answers the same way . if it 's a 25-second question , it will be a 25-second answer . thank you for bringing that up . i believe that issue has been remedied . we 've taken a little bit of the chair 's ability to give judgment on it , but it will be from now on . thank you . mr. james bezan : mr . chair , 34 seconds is a considerable amount of time to do a short question and a short answer . the chair : i appreciate the advice . thank you , mr. bezan . we 'll now proceed to the questioning of ministers . i would like to remind the honourable members that no member will be recognized for more than five minutes at a time and that members may split their time with one or more members by so indicating to the chair . ministers responding to the questions should do so by simply turning on their microphone and speaking . our first questioner is ms. falk . mrs. rosemarie falk ( battlefordslloydminster , cpc ) : mr . chair , yesterday , elizabeth may and the leader of the separatists declared oil to be dead . it 's certainly not dead , but it 's dying under the trudeau government . will the prime minister stand up for canada 's energy workers , or does he agree with the fringe left and those who want to destroy our country ? ms. elizabeth may : i have a point of order . the chair : go ahead , ms. may . ms. elizabeth may : mr . chair , i believe that the language that the honourable member just used is unparliamentary mr. garnett genuis : that 's not a point of order . ms. elizabeth may : we can have differences of opinion , but it is absolutely some hon . members : debate . ms. elizabeth may : unacceptable and violates my privileges to an hon member : debate . ms. elizabeth may : no , it 's not debate . i would ask the chair to rule on that , not the member from the conservative party . it is unacceptable to assert that anyone who wants to make a point about our economy is trying to destroy the country . this allegation is a violation of my privilege . an hon . member : she was also named by the the chair : order . i did n't recognize anyone . i do n't know who is speaking , so i 'll just start talking myself . i want to remind honourable members to have respect in their questions and in their answers . when you refer to someone , please refer to them respectfully . this is a committee of the house , and i would expect no less of the honourable members . we 'll go to the right honourable prime minister . you have 16 seconds . right hon . justin trudeau ( prime minister ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . as i pointed out this morning in my press conference , we can not move forward on a transformation of our energy sector without supporting the workers in that energy sector . we need their innovation and we need their hard work if we are going to lower our emissions , if we are going to reach our the chair : we 'll go to ms. falk again . mrs. rosemarie falk : mr . chair , it has been 43 days since the finance minister promised canada 's energy sector liquidity through the business development bank of canada . for 43 days the finance minister has failed to deliver on that promise . these delays cost jobs and they are costing us canadian businesses . if the government does n't step up to support our energy sector , they are in effect doubling down on their support for foreign , unethically sourced oil . mr . chair , when will the credit options be available to canada 's small and medium energy firms ? the chair : i want to remind honourable members that we do have interpreters who are listening and translating . in consideration to them , please speak at a reasonable pace so that they can understand and then translate . the right honourable prime minister . right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , from the very beginning , our priority through this pandemic and this crisis has been to support workers across the country . we have sent billions of dollars to workers right across the country , including alberta , saskatchewan , b.c. , and newfoundland and labrador in the energy sector for them to be able to support their families through this difficult time . we are also working on sectoral supports right across the country . those will be announced in due course . our focus from the get-go has been the chair : we 'll move to ms. falk . mrs. rosemarie falk : mr . chair , another group that has been ignored by the liberals is our farmers . the announcements to date fall well short of what is needed to maintain a steady supply of affordable and healthy food . the canadian federation of agriculture has asked the government for a $ 2.6-billion emergency fund . instead of responding to specific covid-19 challenges , our farmers are facing the liberals ' reannounced $ 125 million that was already budgeted in the agrirecovery program . will the prime minister finally step up and take our food supply chain seriously , or is agriculture just an afterthought for him ? right hon . justin trudeau : on the contrary , mr . chair , we take agriculture and our agricultural sector extremely seriously , which is why we announced hundreds of millions of dollars a couple of days ago to respond to pressing needs . we will continue to make investments to ensure both the safety of workers in our agricultural sector and the safety of our communities , as well as the continued flow of high-quality canadian food onto our tables right across the country . supporting the people who produce our food is a priority for this government and will continue to be . mrs. rosemarie falk : well , mr . chair , recycled program announcements do not respond to the immediate needs facing our farmers . this is absolutely unacceptable . our farmers are faced with rising operational costs , a disrupted service industry , labour shortages and a reduced capacity at processing plants . the government has a responsibility to take domestic food security seriously . when will the prime minister deliver adequate support to address the critical changes facing our ag industry ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , i would suggest respectfully that the honourable member take a look once again at the announcement we made , which actually highlights significant new investments to support our agricultural industry . i certainly agree that there is more to do . every step of the way in this unprecedented situation , we 've been moving forward on doing more , on adjusting and on investing more . we need to support our agricultural sector and the people who work so hard to put food on canadians ' tables right across the country and we will continue to . mrs. rosemarie falk : mr . chair , canadians expect to find healthy and affordable food at their grocery stores , but if the government does not take action now , that 's not a given . our farmers are trying to keep canadians fed while keeping their heads above water . the liberal government 's own failed federal carbon tax is weighing them down . it is an enormous hit to their bottom line , and the recent carbon tax hike is taking even more money out of the pockets of farmers at a time when they can afford it the least . will the prime minister exempt all farm operations from the carbon tax and reimburse the money that they have already taken from them ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , it 's a shame to hear the member opposite accidentallyunintentionally , i 'm certainmislead the house and canadians . the price on pollution actually puts more money into canadians ' pockets , and that includes farm families . people who pay the cost of the price on pollution on average receive more money back . this is the way of creating a better future for our kids and grandkids , which i know people in communities right across the country , including our farm communities , want to see happen . we are moving forward in a responsible way to put a price on pollution and put more money in average canadians ' pockets . the chair : we now continue with mrs.gill . mrs.gill , you have the floor . mrs. marilne gill ( manicouagan , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . as you know , all sectors of the economy are fragile at the moment , specifically the fisheries . i am thinking about the lobster fishery in the magdalen islands , the crab fishery on the cte-nord or those fishing for herring in the south of the gasp . because imports have ceased , because the domestic market is weak and in decline because of the interruption of the tourism and restaurant industries , the fishing industry and its fishers must be supported . i would like to know what the government has done to support our fishers since the crisis began . right hon . justin trudeau : our fishers do exceptional work that is extremely important in feeding canadians and in contributing to our economic success through their exports around the world . this crisis has struck them very hard . that is why we have established measures in the tens of millions of dollars to support our processors . we have also announced help for the fishers . we know that these are difficult and unprecedented times , and we are going to mrs. marilne gill : my thanks to the prime minister . i am actually talking about help for the fishers . i know about the processing industry and the $ 62.5million to be used essentially for freezing products , but i am talking about the fishers themselves . given the economic situation , most of our fishers are getting ready to leave . first , there are health risks . we know very well that it is impossible for them to observe all the social distancing measures . they have to incur additional expenses in order to conduct their normal fishing activities . in addition , they feel that they will be losing money , because of the drop in the price of their resource . they are just as essential as farmers , but they are going to have to work at a loss and they are not going to have workers to assist them . workers in the seasonal industry do not know what tomorrow will bring . they do not even know whether they will be able to put food on the table next year . are you going to do anything else , in addition to the assistance of $ 62.5million ? time is of the essence . our fishers have lacked certainty for weeks and they are very concerned . right hon . justin trudeau : yes , indeed , we are going to do other things . other investments will be made in various sectors in order to support canadians . we recognize the challenges that fishers must face in terms of social distancing and of work that is often seasonal . we are going to continue working with the industry , with the fishers , and with the coastal communities in order to ensure that people have confidence in their abilities and in their future . in times of crisis , it is important for the government to be there to support people , and that is exactly what we are going to continue to do . this is an unprecedented crisis , but we can see once more that canadians are there for each other . our government will continue to be there for the fishers and the fishing industry . mrs. marilne gill : i would have preferred us to be there from the start . clearly , this is a difficult crisis . but , given the cyclical nature of the industry , some sectors have had to postpone for several weeks the preparations they need for fishing activities . the current program could be modified in a number of ways , to accommodate the cycle , the dates , and the size of the companies . they would really like to take advantage of the $ 40,000loan , but they can not because of their payroll . given the dates , they are also ineligible for the 75 % salary subsidy . i can already suggest a number of solutions to the government and to the minister of fisheries , oceans and the canadian coast guard , that would bring help to those businesses very quickly . the fishers carry on , because it is a duty for them , because they want to help us and to be part of the effort at this time of crisis . at the same time , they have no guarantee that they will be supported . i would really like to hear a guarantee that they will be supported , that they will be able to put food on the table this year , and that they will be able to support the communities that often depend on the fishing industry , a major industry in those communities . right hon . justin trudeau : minister jordan has been working with the fishers , the fishing industry and the communities affected by the crisis since the crisis began . we are assessing a number of solutions . we have proposed various solutions to support the communities , the workers and the families . this is an unprecedented situation . from the outset , our priority has been to support the millions of canadians from coast to coast who have lost their jobs . we have been able to do so , but we are going to continue to work for those who must now face difficulties . we are going to be there for each other . that is what people are expecting from our government and from other canadians . the chair : before we move to the next question , i would like to remind members of the committee to speak slowly , and to address their remarks to the chair and not directly to each other . thank you very much . we will now go to mr. bachrach . mr. taylor bachrach ( skeenabulkley valley , ndp ) : mr . chair , municipalities across canada are facing a financial crisis . they 've seen revenues plummet , and at the same time the cost of delivering municipal services has risen . as the prime minister knows , municipalities are unable to run deficits and so they are facing the reality of cutbacks and serious cuts to the services that canadians depend on . we know that municipalities are vital during this time to provide services to canadians . they 're going to be even more important during the recovery , especially when it comes to delivering on the infrastructure programs before us . the federation of canadian municipalities and mayors across canada have called for emergency financial relief for the municipal sector . my question for the prime minister is , when can they expect federal financial support to arrive ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , no government in canada 's history has done more to work with our municipalities , with our cities , with the federation of canadian municipalities to respond to the challenges they 're facing and to partner with them . things from infrastructure to investments have made a huge difference right across the country in the quality of life of canadians in towns , large and small , from coast to coast to coast . as i 'm sure the member well knows , our constitution requires that most of the funding for municipalities flow through the provinces . we are working with the provinces , as we continue to work with the cities , to ensure that we 're able to support this order of government that delivers the vast majority of services to canadians with very little financial means . we know how difficult it is for our cities . we will continue the chair : we 'll go back to mr. bachrach . mr. taylor bachrach : mr . chair , it would seem that the federal government has the fiscal capacity and the responsibility to help municipalities weather this crisis . transit systems have been hit particularly hard and have seen the bulk of the layoffs in the municipal sector . these transit services carry essential workers to work , whether they are health care workers , grocery store workers , janitors or others . the risk is that we will see higher fares to deal with this financial crisis . we will see service cutbacks precisely at a time when we want to be expanding transit and improving transit in our communities . does the prime minister acknowledge that the federal government needs to step in to safeguard and protect canada 's transit services ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , this federal government recognizes how important it is to support all canadians , which is why we put forward unprecedented measures to help millions upon millions of canadians with the cerb and with the wage subsidy . we will continue to work with the provinces , which have jurisdiction over the municipalities . i 'll be having a conversation with all other first ministers tonight to talk about a broad range of issues . i can highlight that the issue of transit funding has come up . we have continued to engage with them , but again , it is important to respect the constitution and understand that funding for municipalities and cities does go through the provinces . the federal government is happy to be there to support , but it must be the chair : we will go to mr. bachrach again . mr. taylor bachrach : mr . chair , i am wondering how the prime minister could explain to a bus driver in vancouver who has been laid off that as a public sector worker , she ca n't access the federal wage subsidy , while an equivalent worker in the airline industry gets to keep her job with the federal help of that program . could the prime minister explain how that is fair ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , i 'm happy to explain to the member and to all canadians that our constitution creates federal areas of jurisdiction and provincial areas of jurisdiction . the airline industry , like banking , like telecommunications , is a federal area of jurisdiction that we have been able to move forward on . more than that , we brought the canada emergency response benefit and the wage subsidy to all industries across this country , because we knew that as the federal government , it was something that we needed to step up on the chair : we will go back to mr. bachrach . mr. taylor bachrach : mr . chair , i 'd like to shift gears a little bit . faced with minimal health care capacity , remote indigenous communities in my riding are taking matters into their own hands . the nuxalk have put up a checkpoint on highway 20 to protect community members and prevent non-essential travel . in particular , it is to protect the three remaining fluent speakers of the nuxalk language , these cherished elders in their community . the haida on haida gwaii have set up a similar checkpoint , as have communities throughout british columbia , yet federal support for indigenous communities amounts to only $ 39 million for all of the indigenous communities in b.c . does the prime minister not agree that more support is warranted to help indigenous communities in my riding and across the country ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , from the very beginning , we made funds available to canadians right across the country , particularly people in indigenous remote or northern communities who we knew would be facing more difficult challenges because of the existing vulnerabilities in their health care system and socio-economic circumstances . we have made unprecedented investments and we will continue to make the necessary investments , because we need to make sure that indigenous canadians , and indeed all canadians , have the supports they need to make it through this crisis . the chair : we will continue with mr.berthold . mr.berthold , you have the floor . mr. luc berthold ( mganticl'rable , cpc ) : thank you very much , mr.chair . i am going to keep talking about the area of jurisdiction that the prime minister likes to talk about , except that i want to point out the incompetence of the liberals in keeping their commitments on infrastructure projects . my question is very simple . as the provinces gradually restart their economies , can the prime minister tell us how many projects that the provinces have submitted are waiting for approval from his government ? mr. luc berthold : mr.chair , i hope that the length of the pause will not be taken out of my time . the chair : no , i stopped the clock for your time . ms.mckenna , you have the floor . hon . catherine mckenna ( minister of infrastructure and communities ) : i 'm sorry , mr.chair , i was on mute . i 'm very pleased with how we are working with the provinces and territories . i have spoken with all of my provincial and territorial counterparts over the last couple of weeks . work on our historic infrastructure program is progressing well . my department has worked very hard to approve projects , and we will continue to do so . it is very important to build projects that will create good jobs the chair : we are returning to mr.berthold . mr. luc berthold : we still have n't had a response . how many projects are currently awaiting government approval ? i know that the minister has been meeting virtually with the provinces over the last few days . however , there are still hundreds of projects waiting for approval from the liberal government . rather than wait for the right political opportunity to approve these files , will the minister commit today to respecting the provinces and approving by next week all the projects that are sitting on her desk ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr.chair , i 'm pleased with how we are working with the provinces and territories . we are approving projects . if the hon . member speaks to the provinces and territories , he will see how well we are working together . we will announce the approval of projects because it 's very important for our economy , our communities and creating good jobs . mr. luc berthold : does the minister understand that she has n't told us how many projects are still pending ? the construction season is very short . approval of a project in july means that work ca n't begin until next year , which wo n't help revive our economy . hon . catherine mckenna : i want to make it clear that we have approved hundreds of projects in the last few weeks . we will work with the provinces , territories , municipalities and indigenous communities to implement these projects . these projects are important for the economy and the environment , as well as for jobs the chair : we return now to mr.berthold . mr. luc berthold : mr.chair , while the minister is calling for a green recovery of the country 's economy , public transit is at risk . physical distancing measures will cause public transit use to drop for several months . the union des municipalits du qubec estimates that the monthly losses are between $ 75million and $ 100million . other countries have included public transit in pandemic relief programs . why is n't canada ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr.chair , we recognize the importance of public transit for our economy , since some essential workers use public transit . we are working very closely with our counterparts and are listening to the municipalities . as the prime minister said , it 's the provinces that must help because the money the chair : we return now to mr.berthold . mr. luc berthold : mr.chair , once again , what we 're hearing is that the government is passing the buck to the provinces . unfortunately , the minister was unable to answer a single question about the number of infrastructure projects still on the federal government 's desk , which is very important . several large municipalities are waiting for the approval of projects . moreover , public transit systems are facing an extremely serious financial crisis . ridership in most systems is down 85 % to90 % . the federation of canadian municipalities is asking for help for small communities , as well as large municipalities . why is the federal government ignoring the municipalities in the canadian federation of municipalities at this time ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr.chair , i can reassure the hon . member that we are working very closely with the municipalities . we are listening to the municipalities to find out what their issues are and how we can support them . of course , we need the help of the provinces and territories . in terms of the number of projects that we 've approved , i would be happy to inform the hon . member of the exact number of all the approved projects that my department has been working very hard on over the past few months to approve projects to go forward . mr. luc berthold : mr.chair , do i have any time left ? the chair : no , your time is up . we 'll now go on to mr. fast . hon . ed fast ( abbotsford , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . this question is directed to the minister of foreign affairs . on march 28 , the minister personally tweeted out a thank you to the people 's republic of china for donating ppe to canada . this tweet happened within three hours of china 's announcement of that gift . as it turned out , much of the ppe was defective and could not be used . more recently , taiwan donated half a million surgical masks to canada , yet here we are , two weeks later , and the minister has yet to personally thank taiwan for its generosity . will the minister now thank this free and democratic country for its generous gift to canadians ? hon . franois-philippe champagne ( minister of foreign affairs ) : mr . chair , i 'd like to thank my colleague for the question . indeed , we are very grateful to every nation for helping canada . this is a global pandemic that knows no borders . we have been expressing our thanks to many nations that have contributed . we will continue to do so . it is important in a time of pandemic , mr . chair , that we not play politics and that humanity comes together . i can say , after my covid foreign ministers call , that the world community has come together to make sure that supply chains will remain intact and that we will have transit hubs and air bridges . we will continue to work with every nation when it comes to health . this is a public good . we want to work together with everyone . the chair : we will go back to mr. fast now . hon . ed fast : well , mr . chair , i did n't hear a thank you there , so i 'm going to try again . on may 4 , the government of taiwan delivered 25,000 surgical masks to the government of british columbia . on hand were b.c . minister of citizens ' services anne kang and minister of state for child care katrina chen , who , as ministers , officially thanked the government of taiwan for its donation . again , will the minister now do the right thing and , on behalf of canadians , recognize the generosity of taiwan and thank its government for that timely donation ? hon . franois-philippe champagne : mr . chair , as i said to you before , canada is grateful to all who have given supplies to canada . this is a common endeavour . we are thankful . we are grateful to every nation and we will continue to be . as i said , when it comes to global health , when it comes to helping each other , i think it is a duty for all to come together . we are grateful and thankful for all those who have agreed to help canada and canadians from coast to coast to coast in times of need . i 've repeated that and have said many times in many forums that we are grateful and thankful to all of those who are helping canada . hon . ed fast : well , mr . chair , again there was no specific thank you to taiwan . the government of taiwan has been the world leader in successfully fighting the covid-19 pandemic . we have a lot to learn from them and their response . sadly , the people 's republic of china continues to oppose taiwan 's membership in the world health organization . will the minister now do the right thing and assure canadians that he will fully support efforts to grant taiwan membership in the world health organization ? hon . franois-philippe champagne : mr . chair , i 'd like to thank the member . as a former trade minister , he 's very well aware of canada 's one china policy . that said , we support taiwan to continue meaningful participation in international multilateral forums , particularly when it comes to health . this is a global good , and we want to support every nation . we recognize that taiwan and others have been doing very well in fighting this pandemic . we also believe that taiwan 's role as an observer in the world health assembly meeting is of interest to the international health community and we have been supportive of that . hon . ed fast : mr . chair , i 'm going to pivot to repatriation flights . the minister has publicly said that over 20,000 stranded canadians have been repatriated from abroad . can he tell us exactly how many canadians remain abroad who have expressed a desire to be repatriated ? hon . franois-philippe champagne : yes , mr . chair , i am very happy to update members . as of today , we have repatriated more than 20,000 canadians on 232 flights from 87 countries . i would say that this is team canada , and it knows no parties . many members have written to me to make sure that we take care . it 's not an exact science . we have , as i said , repatriated thousands and thousands . we continue , because we know there are still pockets of canadian travellers who are stranded abroad . as the prime minister and i have said from the beginning , we will make our best effort to repatriate everyone who wants to come back home during the crisis . the chair : we 'll go on to mr. moore now . hon . rob moore ( fundy royal , cpc ) : mr . chair , canadians need to have faith in their justice system , even in a time of crisis . my office has received correspondence from canadians concerned that trial delays due to covid-19 may result in criminals walking free . as this government has been working overtime to criminalize law-abiding citizens with new and useless gun laws , will the minister of justice ensure that real criminals will not walk free as a result of delays in the justice system ? hon . david lametti ( minister of justice and attorney general of canada ) : mr . chair , i thank the honourable member for his question . we have been working with my provincial counterparts across canada , as well as with the various federal courts and also , through my provincial counterparts , with the superior courts and courts of appeal across canada . each particular jurisdiction has taken measures to ensure that basic essential services within the court system are maintained , through a variety of means , and we believe that we will be able to solve these various challenges . hon . rob moore : mr . chair , the regional relief and recovery fund was announced weeks ago as a way to help small and medium-sized businesses in rural communities , like those in my riding . in atlantic canada , these funds were to be distributed to the atlantic canada opportunities agency . this is yet another announcement with no details from this liberal government . can the minister clarify whether we are days away or weeks away from this support flowing to the businesses that need it so desperately ? hon . mlanie joly ( minister of economic development and official languages ) : mr . chair , i had the chance to talk with many of the chambers of commerce and business owners throughout atlantic canada , and we hear their anxiety . that 's why acoa 's doing great work on the ground to make sure we can help them through this very difficult period . the member is right . we have increased the budget of acoagood newsand i 'll be coming up with the details very soon . it will be a pleasure to collaborate with him to make sure that we can help many businesses and business owners across the atlantic region . hon . rob moore : mr . chair , my office has heard from many small business owners who have reached out to me . i know many have reached out to many of my colleagues and probably to all of us here today . they are frustrated by the eligibility requirements for some of the federal programs . in particular , they are unable to access the emergency business account , because they do not have a payroll . this could be the hair salon in my riding that subcontracts out its chairs . there are hundreds and thousands of small businesses in this very situation , vital small businesses in our communities , but they do not meet this requirement . these businesses , many of them , are weeks away from shutting down permanently . what does the minister of finance have to say to these small businesses that are suffering right now ? hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : mr . chair , i want to thank my honourable colleague for that really important question . i want all the businesses that he is talking about and all of them throughout the country to know that we continue to work very hard to make sure they 're supported through this difficult period . more work needs to be done , and we will continue to do that work . we know that businesses are being supported through getting access to the wage subsidy to keep their employees together , and they 're getting help , whether it 's with rent or to defray costs by deferring gst and hst or customs duty payments . we 're going to continue to work with all our businesses across the country . the chair : we 'll go to mr. moore for a brief question . you have less than 20 seconds , please . hon . rob moore : mr . chair , it 's a very specific issue . there are small businesses , thousands of them , that do not have a payroll . some have a personal account that they 've dealt with over the years rather than a business account , and that makes them ineligible . these businesses need help right now . hon . mary ng : i agree with the honourable member . those businesses absolutely need support from us . we are going to keep working to ensure they are supported . the chair : we 'll go to mr. cumming next . mr. james cumming ( edmonton centre , cpc ) : mr . chair , small businesses are concerned about their ability to survive , and no amount of deferrals , loans or subsidies can substitute for their need to be open and servicing their customers . can the government confirm that a sectoral risk analysis has taken place to assist the provinces in reopening the economy ? hon . navdeep bains ( minister of innovation , science and industry ) : mr . chair , i can assure the member that we 've been very clear in terms of our strategy around reopening the economy . we need to make sure that we follow the advice of the experts and the health authorities to do so in a manner that does not compromise the health and well-being of canadians . we of course will have a sectoral lens , and as you can see by some of the initiatives and the support packages we 've put forward the chair : we 'll go back to mr. cumming now . mr. james cumming : mr . chair , thousands of business owners make a living and utilize dividends as their salary . they also use independent contractors . can the government confirm that the programs currently in place will be expanded to these hard-working canadians ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , i want to assure the honourable member that we continue to work with all of our small businesses and i want to thank him for raising this very important issue . i want to assure our canadian small businesses that we are going to continue to do this work to make sure they are supported . mr. james cumming : can the minister give me a date when she will be able to announce to these businesses that they will be eligible ? hon . mary ng : i want to assure our canadian small businesses of their importance and of the importance of their contributions to all of our communities . i want them to know that we continue to listen and that we will ensure that they are supported and continue to be supported during this difficult time . mr. james cumming : minister , they need more than assurance . can you give me a date when i can tell these thousands of businesses they will be supported if they pay dividends or if they use contractors within their businesses ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , these businesses are absolutely important and are getting support through a range of means . we will continue to work with these businesses to make sure they are supported through this difficult period . mr. james cumming : mr . chair , i spoke to a second cup owner whose landlord is not offering any kind of rent relief . the landlord says that he does n't have the 25 % needed to be eligible for the program because he 's already paying for common area costs and deferrals on utilities , which he will have to pay on his mortgage . will the government reform the rent relief program to focus on tenants and not just the landlords ? hon . bill morneau ( minister of finance ) : mr . chair , i want to let the member know that we are working to make sure that the details of the emergency program for rent are out there so that both tenants and landlords can understand the situation . we 're seeing a significant number of both landlords and tenants coming forward to register for this program , and we are convinced that it will be in the best interests of landlords to move forward and give tenants this relief . mr. james cumming : mr . chair , we 've been hearing , however , from small business owners that their landlords do n't find the government 's rent relief program appealing enough . can the government confirm , given the program 's low eligibility rate , that the program will be expanded and be more efficient in helping tenants ? hon . bill morneau : mr . chair , we recognize that it 's critically important that all of the details of this program be out there for landlords and tenants to understand . those details are being worked on right now . this is a program that we 've put out within the last week , and we are confident that it 's in the best interests of tenants and landlords . mr. james cumming : mr . chair , during these trying times for small businesses , small businesses need all the help they can get . one easy way to do that would be to expand the canada summer jobs program to businesses with over 50 employees . will the government consider doing so to allow students to gain that very valuable work experience over the coming months ? hon . carla qualtrough ( minister of employment , workforce development and disability inclusion ) : mr . chair , we are very excited about the uptake of the canada summer jobs program this year . the second uptake provided employers across the country with the ability to add their needs for students to the mix . i 'm looking forward to announcing a possible expansion of this program in the coming days . the chair : the next question session will go to mr. dowdall . mr. terry dowdall ( simcoegrey , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . during this pandemic , the government has consistently called for a team canada , non-partisan approach , and i was glad to hear that said a little earlier today . in fact , the public has called for that approach as well . however , at the same time , the current government has used a parliamentary back door to launch a poorly thought out gun ban . we have a government that did n't win the popular vote , and i 'm just wondering how i explain to my residents , because i 'm getting so many calls , that this is not a bloated response because , quite frankly , it is . hon . bill blair ( scarborough southwest , lib . ) : first of all , mr . chair , i think the honourable member can explain to his constituents that the forming of regulations through order in council is actually the process prescribed in law in canada under section 117.15 of the criminal code . i would also invite the member to advise his constituents that way back in 1991 , when there were some conservatives who called themselves progressive , the mulroney government brought forward , in bill c-17 , the authority under that section for an order in council to prescribe specific makes , models and variants of military firearms as prohibited or restricted . the harper government used the same tool the chair : we 'll go back to mr. dowdall . mr. terry dowdall : i 'm not sure , but i 'm hoping , that i 'll get an honest answer on this question from the minister , who has everything from rocket launchers to basically toy guns on the ban list . when will we get the cost of this buyback program ? the chair : i want to remind the honourable members to please be careful in their language when they are referring to others . i wo n't comment on this one particularly , but i want all of you to be very , very careful when referring to other members . the honourable minister . hon . bill blair : it 's a good opportunity , mr . chair , to respond to some of the obfuscations and deceptions that have been put out there . we 're not banning any toys and we 're not banning shotguns . that 's all misinformation that 's being put out . i think it 's very clear , and i invite the member to look at the list of weapons that are the chair : we 'll go back to mr. dowdall . mr. terry dowdall : thank you . what will be the cost of the buyback program , please ? hon . bill blair : actually , i 'm very much looking forward to bringing forward legislation as soon as the house resumes . we will have a vigorous debate in parliament about the form a buyback will take and we will bring forward a budget at that time . mr. terry dowdall : will those with illegal weapons be eligible for the buyback program ? hon . bill blair : if people are illegally in possession of the weapons and they 're committing a crime , they will be dealt with for the crimes they commit . mr. terry dowdall : okay . i 'm going to switch it over . canadians in my riding who suffer from cystic fibrosis are among the most vulnerable to covid-19 infection . while these canadians with existing lung conditions are incredibly worried about a virus that attacks the ability to breathe , the good news is that there are life-saving medicines for those with cf . the problem is with the patented medicine prices review board and its restrictive guidelines . i am wondering if and when the government will correct these guidelines and give access to life-saving medicines for our most vulnerable . hon . patty hajdu ( minister of health ) : mr . chair , as you know , the government has been very committed to improving access and affordability for prescription medications for all canadians . the pmprb regulatory amendments will help canadians be able to afford their prescriptions , and canada will continue to be an important market for new medicines . in fact , many countries with much lower medicine prices gained access to new medicines in the same time frame as canada frame , or even faster , so we are excited to do this work . mr. terry dowdall : mr . chair , our seniors are being particularly hard hit right now during this pandemic , yet seniors have not been given any direct support . it 's one of the number one calls i 'm getting in my office . funding to charities like the united way is being labelled as support for seniors , but most wo n't see any of this support . seniors in my riding have asked for an increase in their cpp and oas , and to be able to make untaxed bulk withdrawals from their rrsps while they still have some value . can the minister confirm when these real and direct supports for seniors will be forthcoming ? hon . deb schulte ( minister of seniors ) : i want to assure the honourable member and canadians that our government has been working extremely hard on how best to support and serve seniors during this pandemic . he mentioned . i 'm not quite sure what 's happening with my machine . i apologize . the chair : you might want to try your space bar and keep it down while you 're speaking . that might solve the problem . hon . deb schulte : okay , i 'll try that . thank you very much . i want to assure the honourable member and canadians that our government has been working extremely hard on how best to support and serve seniors during this pandemic . we have introduced a supplementary gst payment for low- and modest-income seniors . we 've reduced the minimum rrif withdrawal by 25 % , and we 've made the cerb available to working seniors who have lost their jobs due to the covid pandemic . we know there 's more work to do , and we 'll have more to say in the future . the chair : i want to remind honourable members that if there are issues , we are taking note of them , and we 'll hopefully resolve them by the next meeting . we are getting much better , and we 're all new at this . thank you for your patience . we 'll now go to ms.gaudreau . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau ( laurentideslabelle , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . my first question is for the prime minister . we 've heard a lot about contact tracing apps . several provinces have already made announcements on this , and others want to follow suit . today , i 'd like to know where the government stands on this . we 've been talking about a national strategy for some time . where are we now ? hon . patty hajdu : thank you , mr . chair . obviously , contact tracing is an important part of managing any outbreak . in fact , we have been looking at a number of ways to support increased contact tracing across the country , including working with provinces and territories to boost their capacity through human resources and volunteer organizations . we are working very closely with them to make sure we have the capacity . the member is right that many other countries have used digital contact tracing apps . anything we put forward as a digital tool to assist with contact tracing would be thoroughly considerate of canadians ' privacy rights . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau : let me clarify my question a little . yes , we are talking about public health , and we are currently experiencing a crisis . but you know as well as i do that the privacy commissioner has been calling us to task for a very long time now , because there is also a crisis of confidence . you know as well as i do that for 90 % of canadians , the misuse of their personal data is a cause for concern , whether it be for profiling or business development purposes . this is an issue that concerns all canadians . the commissioner is indeed calling for a focus on reform of the privacy act . i 'd like to know whether this commitment will be implemented quickly so that legislation can be passed on this issue , in this case the privacy act . hon . navdeep bains : particular attention must be paid to transparency , privacy and ethical concerns . naturally , canadians are concerned about how their data is used . new technologies are subject to the privacy act . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau : we 're talking about public health . the provinces are currently in the process of legislating . we 're talking about what is going on in quebec , among other places , and i would like to make sure that the federal government commits to respecting the proposals regarding geolocation and contact tracing possibilities , with full respect for the right to privacy . can we commit to respecting the provinces ? hon . patty hajdu : thank you , mr . chair . we have worked very closely with provinces and territories for a long time before the outbreak , but certainly ever since the outbreak . we respect the rights of jurisdictional authorities to use tools that have been properly vetted through their own provincial and territorial legislation . nothing we would ever do at the federal level would put canadians ' privacy in jeopardy . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau : concerning privacy , there are 30million quebeckers and canadians who have had their personal data leaked . why is it that our laws do n't allow us to apply financial penalties so that we can then go further ? the very basis is to be concerned about our fundamental rights . the commissioner has been making this request for several years now . as the critic for access to information and privacy , i 'd like a commitment that the federal government will deal not with what the provinces are doing , but with the privacy act . the chair : your time is up , but i 'll give the floor to the minister for 30seconds . hon . navdeep bains : thank you for the question . our government will ensure the privacy of canadians is respected , support responsible innovation and take reasonable steps to strengthen enforcement powers . that 's why we created a digital charter . we are strengthening canada 's privacy laws in response to the digital age . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. baker . mr. yvan baker ( etobicoke centre , lib . ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . i 'll be sharing my time with the member for malpeque . mr . chair , my question is for the minister of seniors . minister , in my riding of etobicoke centre , we are mourning the loss of 40 residents to covid-19 at the eatonville long-term care centre . over 143 residents and 88 staff members have now tested positive for the virus . this tragedy is not only taking place in etobicoke centre but across canada . of all canadians who have died from covid-19 , 79 % were living in long-term care homes . that 's over 2,000 seniors . this is a catastrophe , and it 's frankly unacceptable . our seniors and their families deserve better . i understand that long-term care homes fall within the jurisdiction of provincial governments in canada , but this is a crisis . what is the federal government doing right now to help protect our seniors who are living in long-term care homes from covid-19 ? what will we do to reform our long-term care homes in the future to ensure that our seniors in etobicoke centre and across canada get the care they deserve ? hon . deb schulte : thank you very much , mr . chair , and thank you to my colleague from etobicoke centre for his very thoughtful question . we are deeply concerned by the outbreaks of covid-19 in long-term care facilities , and our thoughts are with those who have lost a loved one . it 's a very difficult time . as my colleague mentioned , while these facilities are regulated by provinces and territories , we have been focused on protecting the health and safety of long-term care residents and staff while working with our partners in a team canada approach . we 've released guidelines to prevent and control covid-19 infections . we 're working with the provinces and territories to cost-share a temporary salary top-up for long-term care workers . we are working through investing $ 2 billion to secure personal protective equipment for the health of workers , including those in the long-term care homes , and we 've deployed the canadian armed forces to assist 25 long-term care homes in quebec and ontario . we all have a role to play to stop the spread of covid-19 and to protect our seniors and caregivers . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. easter . hon . wayne easter ( malpeque , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . at the finance committee , we 've heard a lot of concerns from all sectors of the economy as a result of covid-19 and we 've been presented with quite a number of possible solutions as well , several of which the government has acted upon . my question is on the support offered to the agri-food sector announced on tuesday . it is very welcome support , but i sincerely believe the farm sector will be taking the prime minister up on the suggestion that $ 250 million should be seen as an initial investment . potatoes are the number one commodity in prince edward island . however , as a result of reduced processor contracts for next year , plus cancelled seed contracts , millions of dollars of seed and process potatoes have no home . to make matters worse , farmers have high fixed costs that they now have to spread over fewer acres . how does the minister see tuesday 's announcement addressing potato farmers ' concerns ? second , in 2013 , long-term financial safety nets were gutted by the harper government . will the minister be coming forward with improved business risk management programs as a result ? hon . marie-claude bibeau ( minister of agriculture and agri-food ) : mr . chair , i want to thank mr. easter , the member for the riding of malpeque on prince edward island . it 's a beautiful rural riding with lots of agricultural production . i want to recognize the hard work of farmers throughout the crisis . on tuesday , i was proud to announce one more step for supporting our producers and processors . we know the importance of our potato farmers , and that 's why we are launching a first-ever surplus food purchase program , a $ 50-million fund designed to help redistribute existing inventories , such as potatoes , to local food organizations . on the financial safety net that we have in place for our farmers , called the business risk management program , we announced up to $ 125 million in funding through agrirecovery and made changes to agristability that will help producers quickly . i will continue to discuss with my provincial counterparts toenhance and improve the brm programs . in the meantime , i want to reiterate that brm programs , including agriinvest , are there to help farmers in difficult times . the chair : we 'll go on to mr. johns now . mr. gord johns ( courtenayalberni , ndp ) : thank you , mr . chair . mr . chair , small businesses across canada closed their doors to stop the spread and for public health . now they 're currently hanging off the edge of a cliff waiting for financial help . robyn , who has owned arbutus health in tofino for over 13 years , ca n't apply for the canada emergency business account loan , simply because she does n't have a payroll of over $ 20,000 . all of her practitioners are paid contractors , so she is ineligible . with no business income and without emergency financing , it is virtually impossible for her to pay her bills or come up with the 25 % needed for the canada emergency commercial rent assistance program . the government promised to be flexible and willing to adjust its covid response rollout so that nobody falls through the cracks , but robyn , like tens of thousands of proprietors who are the economic job creators of our communities , urgently needs the government 's help now . will the government amend its programs to help more business owners so that people like robyn do n't lose their businesses ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , i want to thank the honourable member for his really good question . i know he and i have talked about this , and i appreciate the input and the feedback that he is providing from business directly . i want to assure robyn and her businesses , and many businesses across the country , that we are absolutely listening , and we will continue to make sure we are supporting those businesses during this period . we know that many businesses are being helped through the canada emergency business account . there are well over 550,000 businesses that are getting support through this emergency business account . we also know that more has to be done , and we will continue to work with you and businesses across the country so that we can indeed give them that necessary support to weather this difficult period of covid-19 . mr. gord johns : mr . chair , that 's not going to help robyn feel comfort . i was talking to heather last night , who also owns a business in tofino , basic goodness pizzeria , with her partner marco . like many proprietors of family businesses who are n't on payroll , they do n't qualify for the business loans . they do n't qualify for the wage subsidy because they 're a seasonal business . now with the new rollout of the rent support , they 're not sure if their landlord is willing to play ball and even apply . that 's three separate programs that leave them out . heather was in tears last night as she told me that they have done nothing wrong to deserve being excluded from these emergency programs . i agree . will the government fix the rent support program so that tenants can apply , instead of leaving it up to landlords , and so businesses can get the help they desperately need ? hon . mona fortier ( ottawavanier , lib . ) : mr . chair , we 've been working on this program since the beginning . we 've been working on offering a response for small businesses and charities and non-profit organizations , and we are continuing to listen on the ground to how we can better assist the businesses that fall through the cracks . we will continue to do that as we go along in this emergency situation . thank you very much to the honourable member for sharing the realities of his constituents . mr. gord johns : mr . chair , when the government rolled out its commercial rent support program , why did n't it negotiate an eviction moratorium with the provinces , as australia and other countries did , to protect business owners ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , as we know , canadians are taking action and fighting against covid-19 . we know that many small businesses are worried about being able to pay rent . we 've recognized it and we 've been working with the provinces and territories to implement the canada emergency commercial rent the chair : we 'll go back to mr. johns . mr. gord johns : to qualify for the canada emergency wage subsidy , a 30 % drop in revenue has to be shown . anyone who 's owned a business knows that even with this program , it 's going to be hard to survive . why is the government using a 70 % measurement drop to qualify for the rent support program , but a 30 % drop for the wage subsidy ? hon . mona fortier : again , mr . chair , thank you to the honourable member for sharing his views on this program . we 've been working with provinces and territories to provide forgivable loans to commercial property owners , who in turn lower the rents for their tenants by 75 % . we 're hoping that tenants and landlords will be working together so we can support businesses during this very difficult crisis . the chair : before we move on to the next question , mr.berthold , did you have a question or a point of order ? mr. luc berthold : mr.chair , i have a point of order . i checked the clock from the first round of five minutes , and as you may recall , it took a very long time for me to get an answer from the government . i went back and forth with ministermckenna for four minutes and 14seconds . the chair : just a moment . the interpretation is n't coming through . it 's working now . go ahead , mr.berthold . mr. luc berthold : i 'll start over . during my first turn , it took 50seconds before a government minister deigned to answer my questions . after checking my time , i realized that the discussion between ms.mckenna and i went on for four minutes and 14seconds , so i was n't able to ask the minister one final question , a very important one . i would ask you to take that into account and allow me to ask ministermckenna one last question , please . the chair : the person chairing the meeting uses their judgment and does their best to keep an eye on what 's going on . they try to be as fair as possible . i 'll try to do a better job . i think it 's more or less equal for all the members , but i apologize if the honourable member feels that he was denied a few seconds . our next question goes to mr. doherty . mr. todd doherty ( caribooprince george , cpc ) : mr . chair , the canada-u.s. border agreement is set to expire on may 20 . will the two governments renew the current agreement , or will it be modified ? hon . bill blair : the decision to close the border was made in canada by canadians in the best interest of canadians . we 're continuing to monitor the situation carefully . mr. todd doherty : when will the government be in a position to inform canadians of any changes to the agreement ? hon . bill blair : i 'm pleased to advise the member that we 're continuing to monitor the situation , but i 'm strongly of the opinion that the circumstances on both sides of our border do not indicate that this is the right time to make a change in the restrictions . mr. todd doherty : can the government confirm whether there are any discussions about reopening the border to certain modes of transportation and restricting others ? the chair : before i go to the minister , i want to remind the honourable members that we do have translators , and they are trying to translate . with respect to them , i know we 're trying to get as many questions in as possible , but they do have to translate them , so please be considerate of our interpreters . the honourable minister has the floor . hon . chrystia freeland ( deputy prime minister and minister of intergovernmental affairs ) : let me please inform the honourable member that we are , of course , aware that the current agreement expires . i had a long conversation yesterday with the prime minister mr. todd doherty : when will the government announce a relief package for canada 's aviation industry ? hon . navdeep bains : we are engaged with the industry , and we are working with them on a solution , mr . chair . mr. todd doherty : mr . chair , will this relief package include funding for airline ticket refunds similar to what other countries around the world have done ? yes or no ? hon . navdeep bains : it 's early to say anything at this moment . we 're taking a sectoral approach . this is about making sure that we restart the economy and have a strong recovery . mr. todd doherty : can the minister of transport confirm that temperature screening is taking place at canadian airports . yes or no ? hon . marc garneau ( minister of transport ) : mr . chair , i can confirm that air canada has now adopted a policy of checking temperatures for passengers boarding air canada flights . mr. todd doherty : at which airports is that , and when did this practice start ? hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , the announcement was made recently by air canada . it will start shortly and will apply to all places and destinations where air canada flies . mr. todd doherty : mr . chair , this is for the minister of transport . last week i asked the minister of labour if they were aware of a letter written on april 6 by cupe to the minister of transport and the minister of labour . minister , were you aware of that letter ? the chair : i want to remind the honourable members to place their questions through the chair and not directly . hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , i did n't understand the reference to a letter from cupe . could my colleague please clarify ? mr. todd doherty : on april 6 , cupe wrote a letter to the minister of transport and the minister of labour . is the minister aware of that letter ? hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , could my colleague clarify what cupe is referring to ? mr. todd doherty : cupe is the labour organization that represents thousands of flight attendants across our country . hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , i do understand . yes , i will confirm that cupe , which represents the flight attendants , did write to us . before that i had conversations with cupe with respect to flight attendants and the use of personal protective equipment . mr. todd doherty : can the minister confirm whether or not they have provided ppe to the flight attendants and/or training for front-line staff for airlines and airports ? hon . marc garneau : mr . chair , the airlines are providing ppe to flight attendants and flight crews . this has become a policy to ensure the safety not only of passengers on board but also of the flight attendants and flight crew . mr. todd doherty : mr . chair , a business owner from quesnel wrote to my office recently . he stated that he could n't give his small business tenants a break on rent because the government is penalizing him for paying off his mortgage . when will the government change the cecra rules to help more businesses ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , as you know , we laid out the cecra program just last week , and we are encouraging landlords to take that opportunity to support the renters . we will continue to look at how we can provide some relief to small businesses with rents . mr. todd doherty : with all due respect , mr . chair , any landlord who does not have a mortgage on their business is ineligible for cecra . is the minister aware of this , and are they trying to revise the cecra program ? hon . mona fortier : as you know , we 've been working with provinces and territories to present that program . of course , we will continue to monitor how this program works for landlords and tenants . we are asking , actually encouraging , landlords to do their part and help tenants , like the one you mentioned , go through this . the chair : we 'll go to the next questioner . go ahead , ms. dancho . ms. raquel dancho ( kildonanst . paul , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . small businesses in manitoba employ 73 % of manitobans . that 's over 286,000 manitobans . i 've been speaking with many small business owners in my riding . it 's been heartbreaking , frankly , to hear that everything they 've built and sacrificed for is in serious jeopardy , and through no fault of their own . your government has created programs that are supposed to help them , but many legitimate businesses are n't able to apply . that could mean bankruptcy and cost thousands of manitobans jobs . this is wrong . i 'm hoping to hear specifics , not just nice words , on what you 're going to do to help them . there are three issues regarding access to the $ 40,000 ceba loan . first , businesses that recently incorporatedfor example , in late 2019are unable to apply their entire 2019 payroll . as a result , many are falling short of the $ 20,000 payroll threshold required to qualify for this loan . second , many businesses contract their employees rather than have them on payroll . they also are unable to qualify for this loan . third , many businesses use personal rather than business banking accounts . they are n't able to qualify for this loan either . what is your government going to do about these three scenarios ? the chair : i just want to remind honourable members to place their questions through the chair and not directly to the minister . as well , please take into consideration the interpreters , who have to listen and translate , so that we can have this conversation . hon . mary ng : mr . chair , i want to thank the honourable member for that question . right from the very beginning , we 've always said that we will listen and that we will work to make sure that measures go out to help our canadian small businesses . she 's absolutely right : 98 % of all our businesses in this country are small businesses , so they absolutely contribute enormously to our communities and are job creators . that is why we have put out significant measures . for the canada emergency business account , over 550,000 small businesses have been approved and are getting that support . i absolutely acknowledge that there is more work to do . i can assure the honourable member that we will continue to do this work so that businesses , all businesses , are supported , whether it is helping keep your employees together , helping with rent support , helping to keep your business 's expenses low , or of course helping with the capital that is needed so that you can pay your operating expenses and your bills through this difficult time . ms. raquel dancho : mr . chair , i did n't hear any answers from the minister 's remarks , unfortunately . moving on , there are two issues regarding the 50 % commercial rent assistance subsidy , where landlords pay 25 % , the government pays 50 % , and the tenant is responsible for 25 % . first , many of the small landlords are n't able to take a 25 % hit to their income , and are unable to provide the subsidy to their tenants . second , with the 70 % decline in revenue threshold for small businesses to even be eligible for the rent assist , many restaurants are at 65 % or 67 % decline . they desperately need this subsidy but are n't able to qualify . this is not about problems with the program details . what is the government planning to do to streamline this program for small businesses that ca n't access but desperately need the rent subsidy ? hon . mlanie joly : mr . chair , as the minister of official languages , i just want to raise the fact that interpretation is very complicated right now . in order to make sure that we can continue to uphold bilingualism within the house , i would love it if my colleagues could take down the pace a bit . that would help the interpreters a whole lot . they are working very hard and trying to keep up . the chair : that 's a reasonable request . i just want to remind everyone again that when you 're asking a question , make sure you are doing it at a pace at which you 're considering the people who are interpreting ms. raquel dancho : mr . chair , this is how fast i speak when we 're in the house of commons . it 's just how i talk . the chair : i understand . i have a lot of friends who speak very quickly . ms. raquel dancho : right . i understand . perhaps we could get back to my question about the rent subsidy . the chair : we stopped the time . you 're not losing any time on this one . ms. raquel dancho : okay . i will try to speak more slowly . the chair : i appreciate it . thank you . the interpreters appreciate it . now we 'll go to the minister , please . hon . mona fortier : as you know , we 've been working with the provinces and territories to provide this forgivable loan to commercial property owners , who in turn lower the rent of their tenants by 75 % . we will continue to monitor how this program is delivered , as we announced it last week . it will be offered pretty soon . it will be very important that we understand what happens across the country , and we will monitor and adapt the program as we ms. raquel dancho : mr . chair , it has been in the media quite a bit that this rent subsidy is not helping many , many , many small business owners . it 's falling short of everything that was announced , so i think it needs to be taken a bit more seriously than that . there are two issues regarding the 75 % wage subsidy . first , employers who pay themselves and their employees dividends rather than wages are unable to qualify . second , there is also a 30 % threshold revenue decline needed in order to apply . many of the businesses in my riding are at 27 % or 29 % . they desperately need these funds but are unable to qualify . what is the government planning to do for these small businesses ? hon . mona fortier : again , thank you to the hon . member for sharing the realities she 's hearing from small business owners . we are providing help and support for businesses through these very difficult times . the wage subsidy has been taken up and is working for many businesses . we know that some still fall through the cracks and we will look at how we can continue to support businesses across the country . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ( brossardsaint-lambert , lib . ) ) : we are now going to mr. kevin waugh . mr. kevin waugh ( saskatoongrasswood , cpc ) : thank you , madam chair . three weeks ago , on april 17 , the minister of canadian heritage announced funding of $ 500 million to assist canada 's arts , sports and cultural sectors . we are still waiting to hear who is eligible and when they can expect to receive this funding . hon . steven guilbeault ( minister of canadian heritage ) : madam chair , we will be releasing the details of that announcement , and how the money is going to be spent , in the coming days . mr. kevin waugh : we all know that many media organizations , large and small , in canada are struggling right now . allegations have arisen that the canadian broadcasting corporation , cbc , is currently engaging in predatory behaviour and taking advantage of the current situation to harm its competitors using rate cuts . we 've seen this from the province of quebec . many journalists have talked about this . what is the government going to do to address these allegations against the cbc ? hon . steven guilbeault : madam chair , we have not been informed of these allegations . we will look into this , and we will get back to the hon . colleague if we do find any valuable information . mr. kevin waugh : local community and ethnic media outlets and papers have strong ties to their communities that often go much deeper than the major media outlets . is the government currently using any local or ethnic media outlets to provide crucial coronavirus information through advertising ? hon . steven guilbeault : madam chair , i totally agree with my colleague . we need to get the information to canadians on covid-19 , which is why we have started an ad-buy campaign of $ 30 million , which is being distributed in more than 900 local , regional and national newspapers across the country and 500 radio and tv stations in 12 different languages , including farsi , mandarin , spanish , italian and many more . mr. kevin waugh : mr. minister , i talked to the winnipeg free press yesterday . it has received two ads from an ad agency in connection with the $ 30 million the government is doling out to help media outlets . they had one ad on march 27 . the second ad was on april 11 . that is two ads in the winnipeg free press in the last eight weeks . is this the kind of money you 're attempting to dole out to help media : two ads in eight weeks ? hon . steven guilbeault : madam chair , we have been doing a number of things for our media in canada over the last few months and will continue to do so . on top of that $ 30 million ad-buy campaign , we have been investing $ 50 million in local journalism . just this year , it means that 200 journalists will be hired in areas across the country where journalism is more poorly defined . the federal government has paid part i licence fees of our broadcasters to the crtc . that means $ 30 million is staying in the pockets of our broadcasters . mr. kevin waugh : madam chair , last week , as the minister would know , 15 community newspapers , including eight in manitoba and seven in the province of ontario , closed their doors for good . is the government currently planning any further measures aimed at assisting community or ethnic media organizations ? we understand that many more will close their doors within the next 30 to 60 days . hon . steven guilbeault : we are planning a number of other measures , some of which will be included in the $ 500 million . i will be announcing the details of that in the coming days . of the $ 595 million that the media will receive , we have a tax credit that has now entered into force , and the cheques should be in the mail by the end of the summer . so there are a number of things we 've done and a number of things we will be doing in the coming months as well . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : mr. waugh , you may have a short question . mr. kevin waugh : well , finally , you have the five members associated with that committee to dole out the $ 595 million . they have n't even met yet . when will they meet ? hon . steven guilbeault : i would like to remind my hon . colleague that in order for us to provide tax breaks for the 2019 period , media outlets had to file their tax returns so we could go ahead . this will now be able to proceed , madam chair . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : we now move on to mr.godin . mr.godin , you may go ahead . mr. jol godin ( portneufjacques-cartier , cpc ) : thank you , madamchair . this being the first time i 've had the floor during a virtual sitting of parliament , i 'd like to take this opportunity to greet my fellow members , all 259participants . i hope they are taking care of themselves . i 'd like to talk about the prime minister 's appearance on the show tout le monde en parle . this is what he had to say about his economic recovery plan : we are going to remain focused on the economy as a wholeinnovationresearch and science , the green economy and a fairer economythere are things we are all reflecting on right now that reflection is going to continue . that was a weak answer . it did n't inspire much confidence . can the government assure canadians that it is being proactive and working on a plan to get the economy moving again ? it must act now . things are starting to reopen gradually . is the government going to take concrete action to revive the economy ? hon . chrystia freeland : yes , absolutely . our government is wholly committed to restarting the economy , and we are working closely with the provinces to do just that . last week , our government , together with the provincial and territorial premiers , released the principles that will guide efforts to restore economic activity across the country . that is key . the discussion between the prime minister and the premiers is continuing today . mr. jol godin : madamchair , before we go any further , since it took a while for the minister , or the government , to answer the question , can i have that time back to ask questions ? the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : i stopped the clock , mr.godin . mr. jol godin : thank you . the prime minister 's answer during his appearance on tout le monde en parle did n't inspire much confidence and does n't line up with the deputy prime minister 's comments . how can the government be proud of announcing $ 252million in assistance for the agri-food sector , when that is less than 1 % of all the program funding the government has committed to help canadians get through the covid-19 crisis ? clearly , the government does n't see the food supply chain as a priority and has no regard for farmers and pork and beef producers . does the government realize that eating is vital to canadians ? when is the minister of agriculture and agri-food going to adjust the program and show respect for canadian farmers ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : i have the utmost respect for farmers . we are going step by step . we 've already confirmed various supports for the agricultural sector . this week , we focused on beef and pork producers and processors , as well as sectors with product surpluses that can be redirected to food banks . i can assure my fellow member that this is an additional step and that more supports are on the way in the weeks ahead . bear in mind that a number of programs are already available to farmers . mr. jol godin : i 'd like to switch topics now . portneufjacques-cartier is home to a company that is already licensed by health canada and that , for 20years , has been manufacturing medical equipment including masks , face shields and thermometers . this is equipment our health workers need . the company has a licence from the federal government . in mid-march , health canada reached out to the company to find out how much equipment it could manufacture to help fight covid-19 . the company confirmed that it could immediately start producing 200,000masks a week , ramping up to a million masks over the next few weeks . forty-five days later , it is still waiting on its first order from the canadian government . we are managing a crisis with a limited supply of medical equipment . can the health minister tell us why , 45days later , this company licensed by health canada has n't received an order ? hon . anita anand ( minister of public services and procurement ) : thank you for the question . industry and suppliers have enthusiastically answered our call to equip canada with products and goods during the crisis . many of those suppliers have already received contracts . we have reached out to all the others and will negotiate contracts as needed . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : i would now like to invite hon . member jenica atwin to speak . mrs. jenica atwin ( fredericton , gp ) : thank you , madam chair . seniors living alone are most at risk of economic insecurity , particularly single senior women , as gender inequality in the job market has translated all too often into inadequate retirement income . madam chair , can the minister commit to implementing a poverty reduction plan that addresses the unique challenges faced by older women ? hon . deb schulte : madam chair , i want to assure the member that we are quite aware that this pandemic has typically affected single seniors , and many of those , given that they live longer , are single senior women . i want to assure her that we are working on this issue , and we have provided some supports already through measures such as the gst supplementary payment . that is on average almost $ 400 for single seniors . there 's more work to do . we know that , so stay tuned . mrs. jenica atwin : madam chair , older women represent a high proportion of residents in long-term care facilities . having spent their lives caring for parents , children and often their partners , they find themselves needing care in nursing homes . multiple outbreaks of covid-19 in long-term care homes in canada have highlighted systemic gaps that senior and elderly women may face in such facilities , as well as the working conditions of the female-dominated ranks of nurses and personal support workers . madam chair , can the minister commit to implementing a federal strategy for long-term care homes that recognizes quality of life for residents and working conditions for the employees , ideally one that goes hand in hand with a poverty reduction plan and enhanced home and community care investments across the country ? hon . deb schulte : madam chair , i do want to thank the hon . member for her question . it 's an important one . we are obviously deeply saddened by the outbreaks that have been going on in long-term care facilities and those who have lost their lives . we do recognize that the administration of long-term care and palliative care is the responsibility of provinces and territories ; however , we have been taking a team canada approach , and as you already know , we 've been doing tremendous work with them to try to ensure that those who live in those facilities can be well cared for and safe . we are doing that with guidelines the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : ms. atwin has the floor . mrs. jenica atwin : madam chair , from may 4 to may 10 , we are observing mental health week . we know that our essential workers right now are experiencing unprecedented levels of stress and anxiety , on top of putting their own physical safety and health on the line . most of these workers work in precarious jobs with no access to paid sick leave or vacation , and without any benefits to access mental health services . apart from the very welcome investments in online resources , can the minister explain how the government will support these workers now and once the crisis is behind us ? hon . patty hajdu : madam chair , thank you very much to the member for the question . i 'm so glad that she 's raising the issue of mental health and in particular how poor mental health is oftentimes connected to our socio-economic status . i appreciate the nuance in that question . she 's right . we do have new resources that are available to all canadians free of charge through the wellness together portal , but there is more to do . i think the announcement of top-up wages , for example , which the prime minister spoke about today , is another example of how we 're taking the health and wellness of all low-income canadians very seriously . we know that mental health is not divorced from socio-economic status , and i look forward to working with her more on other measures that we can take together . mrs. jenica atwin : madam chair , we 're all very aware of the importance of temporary foreign workers and their role in ensuring our food sovereignty across this country . the pandemic has highlighted how we depend on their work . how are we protecting them ? madam chair , will the government take action to strengthen legislation and ensure canadians have access to the food they need while the workers who help bring it to our tables have safe working conditions , regardless of where they are working in this country ? hon . carla qualtrough : thank you , madam chair . we are very concerned , as are countries around the world , that we support and create the environment for the health and safety of our temporary foreign workers and we value their contribution to our food supply chain here in canada . we have issued guidelines to employers and are working very closely with local public health authorities in the provinces and territories to make sure workers are protected , that physical distancing and other recommendations are adhered to and that there are severe consequences if employers do n't take care of their workers . the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : we are now going to mr. macgregor . mr. alistair macgregor ( cowichanmalahatlangford , ndp ) : thank you , madam chair . my first question is this : will the liberal government prevent federal bailout funds from going to companies that use tax havens and avoid paying their fair share here in canada , yes or no ? hon . diane lebouthillier ( minister of national revenue ) : we are working to make sure that anyone who tries to circumvent the rules faces serious consequences . we are asking businesses to designate a representative to attest their claims . any employer receiving the subsidy who is deemed ineligible will have to repay the full amount . anyone who abuses the program could face fines of up to 225 % of the subsidy amount as well as five years in prison . mr. alistair macgregor : madam chair , i did n't really hear a yes to that question , so i 'll repeat it . does the government really think it 's appropriate for tax-avoiding corporations to receive funding provided for by taxpayers ? hon . diane lebouthillier : we will keep going after companies that engage in tax evasion . i want to be clear . we will target those who are responsible , not innocent workers . an employee is an employee , regardless of who they work for . the wage subsidy program does not hand a blank cheque over to employers . it is meant to help canadians pay their bills , keep their jobs and get through the crisis . mr. alistair macgregor : madam chair , the agriculture funding announced by the government earlier this week amounts to less than 10 % of what the canadian federation of agriculture estimates will be required to help farmers weather this crisis . why has the minister of agriculture shortchanged our farmers ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : madam chair , this is one more step . this was one more step . we have already committed significant support to our farmers through different programs , and we will do more . i have to remind my colleague that we have put in $ 5 billion through fcc , $ 50 million for the temporary foreign workers , two times $ 50 million for pork and beef producers this week , and $ 77 million for food processing . this is only the beginning , and we should not forget that the business risk management programs are still there to offer support . mr. alistair macgregor : yes , madam chair , but we 're nearly two months into this pandemic and this announcement only came this week . farmers need certainty . when can farmers expect further updates on funding , and how much will the government be providing ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : madam chair , we are working closely with the farmers and their representatives to identify where the gaps are , but once again , we have made improvements to the agristability program . they can get , depending on the province , either 50 % or 75 % in advance payments , and they can also , right now , access their agriinvest program . there is more than $ 2 billion ready to access today , if they have the acting chair ( mrs. alexandra mends ) : mr. macgregor . mr. alistair macgregor : madam chair , federal disability recipients and seniors on fixed incomes have been hardest hit by cost of living increases from covid-19 . if we acknowledge that $ 2,000 per month is the minimum needed to get through this time , why are they being asked to survive on far less ? when can they expect assistance , and how much will they receive ? hon . deb schulte : madam chair , i want to make sure people realize that we have provided some assistance through the gst supplementary benefit . we are also providing support to those who are still working , and we have done that by allowing them to access the cerb . there is more work to be done , so you 'll be hearing more in the near future . mr. alistair macgregor : madam chair , as i think we 've heard through today 's question period , there are countless example of this government designing programs to exclude many small businesses that desperately need help . whether it 's the payroll requirements or other eligibility , we still , to this day , almost two months into the pandemic , have too many small businesses falling through the cracks . madam chair , why has the government taken this approach and when can we finally expect fixes to the whole system ? hon . mary ng : madam chair , right from the get-go , we have been committed to making sure that canadians are helped through this crisis , and that small businesses get the support that they need , so that we are saving businesses and jobs in this country . that is what we have done with many of our programs . you 're seeing that we are also listening , so that we can modify them as we need . i want to assure the member that the work is not done . we continue to do this . the chair : thank you . it is now over to mr.perron . mr.perron , you may go ahead . mr. yves perron ( berthiermaskinong , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . my question will come as no surprise , since it has to do with agriculture . i hear the questions my fellow members are asking , and to be frank , i do n't find the answers satisfactory . it is well and good to talk about existing programs , but they are n't working , so enough with that refrain . that 's what people are telling us . it 's not just members of the opposition saying it . this morning , both farmers and processors came together for a press conference at the union des producteurs agricoles 's head office in longueuil . six stakeholders from different sectors sounded the alarm . can the minister of agriculture and agri-food therefore tell us when she will announce significant supports for the industry ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : we have already announced significant amounts of support , and more is on the way . i 'd like to correct my fellow member . it 's not that the programs are n't working ; it 's that they are n't generous enough in farmers ' eyes . that 's why i 'm working with my provincial counterparts to make improvements to programming , including agristability . here 's an example . after using the online agristability benefit estimator , a pork producer found out that he would get $ 11 per head , as they say in the industry . pork producers are calling for $ 20 per head , so it 's a good start , even though it 's not enough and it is n't what they are asking for . we want to keep working together , but farmers have to access the money available to them through agristability . mr. yves perron : now it 's my turn to correct the minister . even before the crisis , we were hearing from people in the industry that the programs were neither suitable nor sufficient . we are in a crisis , and this is an exceptional situation . in the case of mad cow disease , farmers received direct assistance . that 's the kind of assistance we are calling for . we do n't want to hear about growing levels of debt . of course , this is a first step , but farms are already deep in debt . a few days ago , the government announced $ 50million in funding for pork producers , even though they are asking for $ 20per hog for 27million hogs . the government 's support covers just 2.5million hogs . when i call the measure insufficient , i mean it is grossly insufficient . it 's high time the government put forth more support . it has to stop saying that it 's working hard and examining the situation . the government has to listen to the people in the industry . again , this morning , they had some interesting proposals . when is the government going to announce a whole lot more in funding support ? what 's been announced so far is only 10 % of what farmers are asking for . hon . marie-claude bibeau : we are going step by step . the programs are already in place . we are trying to make them better , and we are committed to doing that . these programs are cost-shared with the provinces . however , i would point out to the member that , when it comes to agrirecovery , we made an exception to the rule . we are moving forward in every province to help pork and beef producers . that 's two funding envelopes of $ 50million each to help cover the additional costs from the decrease in plant processing capacity . that 's new money that was not yet available , money we introduced this week . as the prime minister said , we are going to do more , and we are moving forward step by step . mr. yves perron : what we concluded in committee this week is that the $ 125million is not new money . it was already earmarked for the programs . the government ca n't say that programs already exist and , at the same time , claim that they are new programs . something does n't add up there . what 's more , there are different ways to make money available . i 'd like to talk compensation . everyone knows that the canada-u.s.-mexico agreement came into force a month earlier than planned , despite the promises that had been made . that resulted in additional losses , once again . an easy way to make money available without committing new spending is to provide compensation and announce programs for supply-managed sectors that got nothing . it seems to me that a time of crisis is a time for the government to practise some judo and announce measures . i am reaching out to the government , as i always do , but it has to come forward with announcements . can we expect the government to announce measures in the coming days ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : our commitment to farmers in supply-managed sectorsmeaning , egg , poultry and dairy farmersis as strong as it always was . i repeat , our commitment is clear . dairy producers received their first payment at the end of last year or the beginning of this year . support for poultry and egg farmers is in the form of investment programs , which aligns well with the recovery . at this time , we are focusing on emergency programs to help farmers hardest hit by the covid-19 pandemic . when it comes to the dairy sector , i hope i can count on your support . as you know , legislative changes are needed to grant the canadian dairy commission 's request and increase its borrowing limit by $ 200million so it can buy more butter and cheese . the chair : our next question will go to mr. lake . hon . mike lake ( edmontonwetaskiwin , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . mr . chair , we 're all inundated , as we 've heard during this entire question period , with canadians ' concerns about the economic restrictions and the social restrictions that they 're under . over the last couple of months , the who has given one very consistent message in terms of coming out of those economic and social restrictions . on march 16 , dr. tedros said in his briefing , we have a simple message for all countries : test , test , test . on march 25 , 44 days ago , he said , aggressive measures to find , isolate , test , treat and trace are not only the best and fastest way out of extreme social and economic restrictionstheyre also the best way to prevent them . does the minister agree with the who that relentless testing and tracing are critical to a successful economic and social relaunch strategy in canada ? hon . patty hajdu : thanks to the member for the very astute observation and question . absolutely , we agree that testing and contact tracing will form an important part of our response to living with covid . we 've been investing heavily in ensuring that we have the lab capacity , the collaboration across provinces and territories , and the variety of testing options to help us increase our capacity to test . we are aiming right now for a high volume of tests , but i will also say that in canada we have one of the highest testing rates in the world . although we 're doing well , i can assure him that i am with him and i believe we need to do more . hon . mike lake : i have some really quick questions for follow-up . first , what is canada 's current testing capability ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , as i mentioned to his colleagues yesterday , we have currently the capacity to do approximately 60,000 tests per day across the country . hon . mike lake : how many tests were conducted each day on average in canada last week ? hon . patty hajdu : mr . chair , it 's hard for me to get that exact number , but i will get back to him with the exact number . hon . mike lake : i 'll save you the time . the exact number was 28,851 , on average , every day last week . that 's a gap of 30,000 from what your stated testing capability is . i 'll give another quote from dr. tam , back on april 22 , 15 days ago . she said , as a first tranche , roughly close to 60,000 is where the provinces can potentially expand to as a target already . does the minister happen to know , ballpark , what the average number of daily tests in canada has been since that statement ? hon . patty hajdu : your estimate was slightly higher than what my estimate was going to be , so that 's a great piece of news . listen , i will just say that i think if the premise here is that we could be doing more testing . i would agree , but i will also say that the provinces and territories are working incredibly hard on testing strategies that meet their own specific needs . i 'm happy to have a conversation with the member later about that testing strategy . dr. tam works with all the chief public health officers across the country to ensure that their testing strategy is going to be applicable and appropriate for their particular jurisdictions . we , as the federal government , provide the capacity for them to conduct those tests . hon . mike lake : following up on that , is there a jurisdiction in canada where relentless testing is not the appropriate strategy as provinces consider relaunching ? hon . patty hajdu : each province and territory has its own outbreak and its own epidemic . for example , in british columbia , where there are relatively fewer cases in general and less disease activity , they may have a different testing strategy than a province like ontario , which is currently struggling with more outbreaks . hon . mike lake : given your comment that our current testing capability is 60,000 , and acknowledging that only at one point in the entire history of our covid response , over several months , has our weekly average been over 30,000it was about 31,000 for one day on a rolling basisminister , are you satisfied with our current testing amounts right now , given that we 're testing 50 % of what the public health officer advises would be best ? hon . patty hajdu : i 'm so amazed by the work the provinces and territories have done in a very short time to increase their capacity . we are supporting them with the tools that they need to get more testing done , but also to have other components in place that will allow them to do the rapid tracing of positive cases . i think it 's very important to remember that testing strategies will be different across the provinces , based on the outbreak disease epidemiology . having said that , i know that we can all do better , and i 'm certain that my counterparts feel the same . </s>
<s> what were the difficulties faced by the municipal sector ? </s> mr. taylor bachrach ( skeenabulkley valley , ndp ) : mr . chair , municipalities across canada are facing a financial crisis . they 've seen revenues plummet , and at the same time the cost of delivering municipal services has risen . as the prime minister knows , municipalities are unable to run deficits and so they are facing the reality of cutbacks and serious cuts to the services that canadians depend on . we know that municipalities are vital during this time to provide services to canadians . they 're going to be even more important during the recovery , especially when it comes to delivering on the infrastructure programs before us . the federation of canadian municipalities and mayors across canada have called for emergency financial relief for the municipal sector . my question for the prime minister is , when can they expect federal financial support to arrive ? </s>
<s> what happened to a public sector worker in canada ? </s> mr. taylor bachrach : mr . chair , i am wondering how the prime minister could explain to a bus driver in vancouver who has been laid off that as a public sector worker , she ca n't access the federal wage subsidy , while an equivalent worker in the airline industry gets to keep her job with the federal help of that program . could the prime minister explain how that is fair ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , i 'm happy to explain to the member and to all canadians that our constitution creates federal areas of jurisdiction and provincial areas of jurisdiction . the airline industry , like banking , like telecommunications , is a federal area of jurisdiction that we have been able to move forward on . more than that , we brought the canada emergency response benefit and the wage subsidy to all industries across this country , because we knew that as the federal government , it was something that we needed to step up on </s>
<s> how many projects that the provinces had submitted were waiting for approval from the government ? </s> mr. luc berthold ( mganticl'rable , cpc ) : thank you very much , mr.chair . i am going to keep talking about the area of jurisdiction that the prime minister likes to talk about , except that i want to point out the incompetence of the liberals in keeping their commitments on infrastructure projects . my question is very simple . as the provinces gradually restart their economies , can the prime minister tell us how many projects that the provinces have submitted are waiting for approval from his government ? mr. luc berthold : mr.chair , i hope that the length of the pause will not be taken out of my time . the chair : no , i stopped the clock for your time . ms.mckenna , you have the floor . hon . catherine mckenna ( minister of infrastructure and communities ) : i 'm sorry , mr.chair , i was on mute . i 'm very pleased with how we are working with the provinces and territories . i have spoken with all of my provincial and territorial counterparts over the last couple of weeks . work on our historic infrastructure program is progressing well . my department has worked very hard to approve projects , and we will continue to do so . it is very important to build projects that will create good jobs the chair : we are returning to mr.berthold . mr. luc berthold : we still have n't had a response . how many projects are currently awaiting government approval ? i know that the minister has been meeting virtually with the provinces over the last few days . however , there are still hundreds of projects waiting for approval from the liberal government . rather than wait for the right political opportunity to approve these files , will the minister commit today to respecting the provinces and approving by next week all the projects that are sitting on her desk ? hon . catherine mckenna : mr.chair , i 'm pleased with how we are working with the provinces and territories . we are approving projects . if the hon . member speaks to the provinces and territories , he will see how well we are working together . we will announce the approval of projects because it 's very important for our economy , our communities and creating good jobs . mr. luc berthold : does the minister understand that she has n't told us how many projects are still pending ? the construction season is very short . approval of a project in july means that work ca n't begin until next year , which wo n't help revive our economy . </s>
<s> will the minister of foreign affairs thank taiwan officially for the donation ? </s> hon . ed fast ( abbotsford , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . this question is directed to the minister of foreign affairs . on march 28 , the minister personally tweeted out a thank you to the people 's republic of china for donating ppe to canada . this tweet happened within three hours of china 's announcement of that gift . as it turned out , much of the ppe was defective and could not be used . more recently , taiwan donated half a million surgical masks to canada , yet here we are , two weeks later , and the minister has yet to personally thank taiwan for its generosity . will the minister now thank this free and democratic country for its generous gift to canadians ? hon . franois-philippe champagne ( minister of foreign affairs ) : mr . chair , i 'd like to thank my colleague for the question . indeed , we are very grateful to every nation for helping canada . this is a global pandemic that knows no borders . we have been expressing our thanks to many nations that have contributed . we will continue to do so . it is important in a time of pandemic , mr . chair , that we not play politics and that humanity comes together . i can say , after my covid foreign ministers call , that the world community has come together to make sure that supply chains will remain intact and that we will have transit hubs and air bridges . we will continue to work with every nation when it comes to health . this is a public good . we want to work together with everyone . the chair : we will go back to mr. fast now . hon . ed fast : well , mr . chair , i did n't hear a thank you there , so i 'm going to try again . on may 4 , the government of taiwan delivered 25,000 surgical masks to the government of british columbia . on hand were b.c . minister of citizens ' services anne kang and minister of state for child care katrina chen , who , as ministers , officially thanked the government of taiwan for its donation . again , will the minister now do the right thing and , on behalf of canadians , recognize the generosity of taiwan and thank its government for that timely donation ? hon . franois-philippe champagne : mr . chair , as i said to you before , canada is grateful to all who have given supplies to canada . this is a common endeavour . we are thankful . we are grateful to every nation and we will continue to be . as i said , when it comes to global health , when it comes to helping each other , i think it is a duty for all to come together . we are grateful and thankful for all those who have agreed to help canada and canadians from coast to coast to coast in times of need . i 've repeated that and have said many times in many forums that we are grateful and thankful to all of those who are helping canada . hon . ed fast : well , mr . chair , again there was no specific thank you to taiwan . the government of taiwan has been the world leader in successfully fighting the covid-19 pandemic . we have a lot to learn from them and their response . sadly , the people 's republic of china continues to oppose taiwan 's membership in the world health organization . will the minister now do the right thing and assure canadians that he will fully support efforts to grant taiwan membership in the world health organization ? </s>
<s> how would the government grant medical assistance to the most vulnerable to covid-19 infection ? </s> mr. terry dowdall : okay . i 'm going to switch it over . canadians in my riding who suffer from cystic fibrosis are among the most vulnerable to covid-19 infection . while these canadians with existing lung conditions are incredibly worried about a virus that attacks the ability to breathe , the good news is that there are life-saving medicines for those with cf . the problem is with the patented medicine prices review board and its restrictive guidelines . i am wondering if and when the government will correct these guidelines and give access to life-saving medicines for our most vulnerable . hon . patty hajdu ( minister of health ) : mr . chair , as you know , the government has been very committed to improving access and affordability for prescription medications for all canadians . the pmprb regulatory amendments will help canadians be able to afford their prescriptions , and canada will continue to be an important market for new medicines . in fact , many countries with much lower medicine prices gained access to new medicines in the same time frame as canada frame , or even faster , so we are excited to do this work . mr. terry dowdall : mr . chair , our seniors are being particularly hard hit right now during this pandemic , yet seniors have not been given any direct support . it 's one of the number one calls i 'm getting in my office . funding to charities like the united way is being labelled as support for seniors , but most wo n't see any of this support . seniors in my riding have asked for an increase in their cpp and oas , and to be able to make untaxed bulk withdrawals from their rrsps while they still have some value . can the minister confirm when these real and direct supports for seniors will be forthcoming ? hon . deb schulte ( minister of seniors ) : i want to assure the honourable member and canadians that our government has been working extremely hard on how best to support and serve seniors during this pandemic . he mentioned . i 'm not quite sure what 's happening with my machine . i apologize . the chair : you might want to try your space bar and keep it down while you 're speaking . that might solve the problem . hon . deb schulte : okay , i 'll try that . thank you very much . i want to assure the honourable member and canadians that our government has been working extremely hard on how best to support and serve seniors during this pandemic . we have introduced a supplementary gst payment for low- and modest-income seniors . we 've reduced the minimum rrif withdrawal by 25 % , and we 've made the cerb available to working seniors who have lost their jobs due to the covid pandemic . we know there 's more work to do , and we 'll have more to say in the future . </s>
<s> what did the meeting talk about the contact tracing apps ? </s> ms. marie-hlne gaudreau ( laurentideslabelle , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . my first question is for the prime minister . we 've heard a lot about contact tracing apps . several provinces have already made announcements on this , and others want to follow suit . today , i 'd like to know where the government stands on this . we 've been talking about a national strategy for some time . where are we now ? hon . patty hajdu : thank you , mr . chair . obviously , contact tracing is an important part of managing any outbreak . in fact , we have been looking at a number of ways to support increased contact tracing across the country , including working with provinces and territories to boost their capacity through human resources and volunteer organizations . we are working very closely with them to make sure we have the capacity . the member is right that many other countries have used digital contact tracing apps . anything we put forward as a digital tool to assist with contact tracing would be thoroughly considerate of canadians ' privacy rights . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau : let me clarify my question a little . yes , we are talking about public health , and we are currently experiencing a crisis . but you know as well as i do that the privacy commissioner has been calling us to task for a very long time now , because there is also a crisis of confidence . you know as well as i do that for 90 % of canadians , the misuse of their personal data is a cause for concern , whether it be for profiling or business development purposes . this is an issue that concerns all canadians . the commissioner is indeed calling for a focus on reform of the privacy act . i 'd like to know whether this commitment will be implemented quickly so that legislation can be passed on this issue , in this case the privacy act . hon . navdeep bains : particular attention must be paid to transparency , privacy and ethical concerns . naturally , canadians are concerned about how their data is used . new technologies are subject to the privacy act . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau : we 're talking about public health . the provinces are currently in the process of legislating . we 're talking about what is going on in quebec , among other places , and i would like to make sure that the federal government commits to respecting the proposals regarding geolocation and contact tracing possibilities , with full respect for the right to privacy . can we commit to respecting the provinces ? hon . patty hajdu : thank you , mr . chair . we have worked very closely with provinces and territories for a long time before the outbreak , but certainly ever since the outbreak . we respect the rights of jurisdictional authorities to use tools that have been properly vetted through their own provincial and territorial legislation . nothing we would ever do at the federal level would put canadians ' privacy in jeopardy . ms. marie-hlne gaudreau : concerning privacy , there are 30million quebeckers and canadians who have had their personal data leaked . why is it that our laws do n't allow us to apply financial penalties so that we can then go further ? the very basis is to be concerned about our fundamental rights . the commissioner has been making this request for several years now . as the critic for access to information and privacy , i 'd like a commitment that the federal government will deal not with what the provinces are doing , but with the privacy act . the chair : your time is up , but i 'll give the floor to the minister for 30seconds . </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the support offered to the agri-food sector ? </s> hon . wayne easter ( malpeque , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . at the finance committee , we 've heard a lot of concerns from all sectors of the economy as a result of covid-19 and we 've been presented with quite a number of possible solutions as well , several of which the government has acted upon . my question is on the support offered to the agri-food sector announced on tuesday . it is very welcome support , but i sincerely believe the farm sector will be taking the prime minister up on the suggestion that $ 250 million should be seen as an initial investment . potatoes are the number one commodity in prince edward island . however , as a result of reduced processor contracts for next year , plus cancelled seed contracts , millions of dollars of seed and process potatoes have no home . to make matters worse , farmers have high fixed costs that they now have to spread over fewer acres . how does the minister see tuesday 's announcement addressing potato farmers ' concerns ? second , in 2013 , long-term financial safety nets were gutted by the harper government . will the minister be coming forward with improved business risk management programs as a result ? </s>
<s> when would the government announce a relief package for canada 's aviation industry ? </s> mr. todd doherty : when will the government announce a relief package for canada 's aviation industry ? hon . navdeep bains : we are engaged with the industry , and we are working with them on a solution , mr . chair . mr. todd doherty : mr . chair , will this relief package include funding for airline ticket refunds similar to what other countries around the world have done ? yes or no ? hon . navdeep bains : it 's early to say anything at this moment . we 're taking a sectoral approach . this is about making sure that we restart the economy and have a strong recovery . mr. todd doherty : can the minister of transport confirm that temperature screening is taking place at canadian airports . yes or no ? hon . marc garneau ( minister of transport ) : mr . chair , i can confirm that air canada has now adopted a policy of checking temperatures for passengers boarding air canada flights . mr. todd doherty : at which airports is that , and when did this practice start ? </s>
<s> what would the government do about small businesses in canada ? </s> ms. raquel dancho ( kildonanst . paul , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . small businesses in manitoba employ 73 % of manitobans . that 's over 286,000 manitobans . i 've been speaking with many small business owners in my riding . it 's been heartbreaking , frankly , to hear that everything they 've built and sacrificed for is in serious jeopardy , and through no fault of their own . your government has created programs that are supposed to help them , but many legitimate businesses are n't able to apply . that could mean bankruptcy and cost thousands of manitobans jobs . this is wrong . i 'm hoping to hear specifics , not just nice words , on what you 're going to do to help them . there are three issues regarding access to the $ 40,000 ceba loan . first , businesses that recently incorporatedfor example , in late 2019are unable to apply their entire 2019 payroll . as a result , many are falling short of the $ 20,000 payroll threshold required to qualify for this loan . second , many businesses contract their employees rather than have them on payroll . they also are unable to qualify for this loan . third , many businesses use personal rather than business banking accounts . they are n't able to qualify for this loan either . what is your government going to do about these three scenarios ? the chair : i just want to remind honourable members to place their questions through the chair and not directly to the minister . as well , please take into consideration the interpreters , who have to listen and translate , so that we can have this conversation . </s>
<s> what did the meeting talk about the forgivable loan to commercial property owners ? </s> ms. raquel dancho : mr . chair , i did n't hear any answers from the minister 's remarks , unfortunately . moving on , there are two issues regarding the 50 % commercial rent assistance subsidy , where landlords pay 25 % , the government pays 50 % , and the tenant is responsible for 25 % . first , many of the small landlords are n't able to take a 25 % hit to their income , and are unable to provide the subsidy to their tenants . second , with the 70 % decline in revenue threshold for small businesses to even be eligible for the rent assist , many restaurants are at 65 % or 67 % decline . they desperately need this subsidy but are n't able to qualify . this is not about problems with the program details . what is the government planning to do to streamline this program for small businesses that ca n't access but desperately need the rent subsidy ? </s>
<s> who would be eligible to receive the art funding ? </s> mr. kevin waugh ( saskatoongrasswood , cpc ) : thank you , madam chair . three weeks ago , on april 17 , the minister of canadian heritage announced funding of $ 500 million to assist canada 's arts , sports and cultural sectors . we are still waiting to hear who is eligible and when they can expect to receive this funding . </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the various supports for the agricultural sector ? </s> mr. jol godin : thank you . the prime minister 's answer during his appearance on tout le monde en parle did n't inspire much confidence and does n't line up with the deputy prime minister 's comments . how can the government be proud of announcing $ 252million in assistance for the agri-food sector , when that is less than 1 % of all the program funding the government has committed to help canadians get through the covid-19 crisis ? clearly , the government does n't see the food supply chain as a priority and has no regard for farmers and pork and beef producers . does the government realize that eating is vital to canadians ? when is the minister of agriculture and agri-food going to adjust the program and show respect for canadian farmers ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : i have the utmost respect for farmers . we are going step by step . we 've already confirmed various supports for the agricultural sector . this week , we focused on beef and pork producers and processors , as well as sectors with product surpluses that can be redirected to food banks . i can assure my fellow member that this is an additional step and that more supports are on the way in the weeks ahead . bear in mind that a number of programs are already available to farmers . mr. jol godin : i 'd like to switch topics now . portneufjacques-cartier is home to a company that is already licensed by health canada and that , for 20years , has been manufacturing medical equipment including masks , face shields and thermometers . this is equipment our health workers need . the company has a licence from the federal government . in mid-march , health canada reached out to the company to find out how much equipment it could manufacture to help fight covid-19 . the company confirmed that it could immediately start producing 200,000masks a week , ramping up to a million masks over the next few weeks . forty-five days later , it is still waiting on its first order from the canadian government . we are managing a crisis with a limited supply of medical equipment . can the health minister tell us why , 45days later , this company licensed by health canada has n't received an order ? </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> grad f : so we 're on . grad h : yeah . that 's better . grad f : and , { comment } somewhere is my agenda . i think the most important thing is morgan wanted to talk about , uh , the arpa demo . professor d : well , so , here 's the thing . um , why do n't we s again start off with with , uh , yeah , i 'll get it . i 'll get the door . um , i think we want to start off with the agenda . and then , given that , uh , liz and andreas are gon na be ten , fifteen minutes late , we can try to figure out what we can do most effectively without them here . so so so , one thing is , yeah , talk about demo , grad f : ok . so , uh uh , ibm transcription status , professor d : ibm transcription . uh , what else ? what 's smartkom ? smartkom ? grad f : uh , we wan na talk about if w if we wan na add the data to the mar meeting recorder corpus . phd e : the data . the data which we are collecting here . professor d : what what what are we collecting here ? phd e : data ? grad f : so why do n't we have that on the agenda and we 'll we 'll get to it and talk about it ? phd e : the smartkom data ? professor d : yeah , right . phd e : yeah . professor d : uh , right . uh . grad f : uh , reorganization status . professor d : reorganization status . postdoc a : oh . files and directories ? professor d : files and directories . grad f : yep . uh - huh . absinthe , which is the multiprocessor unix linux . i think it was andreas wanted to talk about segmentation and recognition , and update on sri recognition experiments . professor d : um grad f : and then if ti if there 's time i wanted to talk about digits , but it looked like we were pretty full , so i can wait till next week . professor d : right . ok . well , let 's see . i think the a certainly the segmentation and recognition we wan na maybe focus on when an - andreas is here since that was particularly his thing . phd e : and also the smartkom thing should b professor d : smartkom also , andreas . absinthe , i think also he has sort of been involved in a lot of those things . grad f : at least , professor d : yeah . grad f : yeah , he 'll t he 'll probably be interested . professor d : yeah . um so , i mean , i think they 'll be inter i 'll be interested in all this , but but , uh , probably , if we had to pick something that we would talk on for ten minutes or so while they 're coming here . or i guess it would be , you think , reorganization status , or ? grad f : yeah . i mean , i think , chuck was the one who added out the agenda item . i do n't really have anything to say other than that we still have n't done it . phd b : well , i mean , i uh just basically that maybe i said maybe we said this before just that we met and we talked about it and we sort of have a plan for getting things organized and postdoc a : and i and i think a crucial part of that is the idea of of not wanting to do it until right before the next level zero back - up so that there wo n't be huge number of of added , phd b : right . postdoc a : uh grad f : right . phd b : that that was basically it . not not much @ @ grad f : although dave basically said that if we wan na do it , just tell him and he 'll do a d level zero then . postdoc a : yeah . uh - huh . oh , excellent . oh , good . phd b : oh , so maybe we should just go ahead and get everything ready , and grad f : yep . so , i think we do need to talk a little bit about well , we do n't need to do it during this meeting . phd b : yeah . grad f : we have a little more to discuss . but , uh , we 're we 're basically ready to do it . and , uh , i have some web pages on ts { comment } more of the background . so , naming conventions and things like that , that i 've been trying to keep actually up to date . so . and i 've been sharing them with u - d uw folks also . postdoc a : i 'm sorry , you 've been what ? showing them ? sharing them . grad f : sharing them with the uw folks . postdoc a : ok . ok . professor d : ok . well , maybe uh , since that that was a pretty short one , maybe we should talk about the ibm transcription status . someone can fill in liz and andreas later . uh grad f : ok . so , we , uh we did another version of the beeps , where we separated each beeps with a spoken digit . chuck came up here and recorded some di himself speaking some digits , and so it just goes `` beep one beep `` and then the phrase , and then `` beep two beep `` and then the phrase . and that seems pretty good . um , i think they 'll have a b easier time keeping track of where they are in the file . phd e : and we have done that on the automatic segmentations . grad f : and we did it with the automatic segmentation , and i do n't think we ne we did n't look at it in detail . we just sent it to ibm . we we sorta spot - checked it . phd b : i listened to probably , uh , five or ten minutes of it from the beginning . phd e : yeah . grad f : oh , really ? phd b : yeah . and grad f : i sorta spot - checked here and there and it sounded pretty good . so . i think it 'll work . and , uh , we 'll just hafta see what we get back from them . uh phd b : and the main thing will be if we can align what they give us with what we sent them . i mean , that 's the crucial part . grad f : right . phd b : and i think we 'll be able to do that at with this new beep format . grad f : yep . well , i think it 's also they are much less likely to d have errors . phd b : mm - hmm . grad f : i mean , so the problem wi last time is that there were errors in the transcripts where they put beeps where there were n't any , or and they put in extraneous beeps . phd b : right . yeah . grad f : and with the numbers there , it 's much less likely . phd b : yeah , one interesting note is uh , or problem i dunno if this was just because of how i play it back , i say , uh , snd - play and then the file , every once in a while , @ @ { comment } uh , like a beep sounds like it 's cut into two beeps . phd e : yeah . into two pieces . phd b : yeah , and i i dunno if that 's an , uh , artifact of playback phd e : yeah . yep . phd b : bu uh , i do n't think it 's probably in the original file . um , but , uh phd e : i recognize that , too . yeah . grad f : ha . that 's interesting . i did n't hear that . phd b : yeah . but with this new format , um , that hopefully they 're not hearing that , and if they are , it should n't throw them . grad f : well , maybe we better listen to it again , make sure , but , i mean , certainly the software should n't do that , phd b : yeah . that 's what i thought . postdoc a : mm - hmm . phd b : i it 's probably just , you know , mmm , somehow the audio device gets hung for a second , phd e : yeah . some latency or something . grad f : hiccups . phd e : yeah ? postdoc a : as long as they have one number , and they know that there 's only one beep maximum that goes with that number . phd b : or phd e : yeah . phd b : yeah . right . grad f : yeah . the only the only part that might be confusing is when chuck is reading digits . phd b : right . postdoc a : well , you know , actually , are we having them phd b : so th grad f : `` seven four eight beep seven beep eight three two `` . postdoc a : yeah , but are we having them do digits ? grad f : yes . because , uh , we do n't we did n't in order to cut them out we 'd have to listen to it . phd b : we we did n't cut those out . phd e : yeah . they are not transcribed yet . so . yeah . yeah . grad f : and we wanted to avoid doing that , so we they are transcribing the digits . phd b : we can we can ignore it when we get it back , grad f : although we could tell them { comment } we could tell them , if you hear someone reading a digits string just say `` bracket digit bracket `` and do n't bother actually computing the di writing down the digits . phd b : yeah . postdoc a : that 'd be great . that 'd be what i 'm having the transcribers here do , cuz it can be extracted later . grad f : yep . and then i wanted to talk about but as i said i we may not have time what we should do about digits . we have a whole pile of digits that have n't been transcribed . professor d : le - let 's talk about it , because that 's that 's something that i i know andreas is less interested in than liz is , so , you know . it 's good grad f : do we have anything else to say about transcription ? about ibm stuff ? phd b : uh , brian i i sent bresset sent brian a message about the meeting and i have n't heard back yet . so . i g hope he got it and hopefully he 's maybe he 's gone , i dunno . he did n't even reply to my message . so . i should probably ping him just to make sure that he got it . grad f : alright . so , we have a whole bunch of digits , if we wan na move on to digits . professor d : actually , maybe i one one relate more related thing in transcription . so that 's the ibm stuff . we 've got that sorted out . um , how 're we doing on the on the rest of it ? postdoc a : we 're doing well . i i hire i 've hired two extra people already , expect to hire two more . and , um , i 've prepared , um , uh , a set of five which i 'm which i 'm calling set two , which are now being edited by my head transcriber , in terms of spelling errors and all that . she 's also checking through and mar and and monitoring , um , the transcription of another transcriber . you know , i mean , she 's going through and doing these kinds of checks . professor d : uh - huh . postdoc a : and , i 've moved on now to what i 'm calling set three . i sort of thought if i do it in sets groups of five , then i can have , like , sort of a a parallel processing through through the the current . professor d : uh - huh . postdoc a : and and you indicated to me that we have a g a goal now , for the for the , um , the , uh , darpa demo , of twenty hours . so , i 'm gon na go up to twenty hours , be sure that everything gets processed , and released , and { comment } and that 's that 's what my goal is . package of twenty hours right now , and then once that 's done , move on to the next . professor d : yeah , uh , so twenty hours . but i guess the other thing is that , um , that that 's kinda twenty hours asap because the longer before the demo we actually have the twenty hours , the more time it 'll be for people to actually do cool things with it . postdoc a : mm - hmm . good . i 'm i 'm hiring people who , uh , really are professor d : so . ok . postdoc a : they would like to do it full - time , several of these people . and and i do n't think it 's possible , really , to do this full - time , but , that what it shows is motivation to do as many hours as possible . professor d : mm - hmm . grad f : it 'll keep your accuracy up . yep . professor d : yeah . postdoc a : and they 're really excellent . professor d : yeah . well , that 's good . postdoc a : yeah . got a good core group now . professor d : yeah , i mean , i guess the so the difference if if , um , if the ibm stuff works out , the difference in the job would be that they p primarily would be checking through things that were already done by someone else ? postdoc a : again . mm - hmm . professor d : is that most of what it ? grad f : and correcting . professor d : i mean correcting . grad f : correcting . we 'll we 'll expect that they 'll have to move some time bins and do some corrections . postdoc a : and i you know , i 've also d uh , discovered so with the new transcriber i 'm um so uh , lem me say that my , uh so , um at present , um , the people have been doing these transcriptions a channel at a time . and , that sort of , um , is useful , and t you know , and then once in a while they 'll have to refer to the other channels to clear something up . ok . well , i realize that , um , w i we we 're using the pre - segmented version , and , um , the pre - segmented version is extremely useful , and would n't it be , useful also to have the visual representation of those segments ? and so i 've uh , i , uh , uh , i 've { comment } trained the new one uh , the new the newest one , to , um , use the visual from the channel that is gon na be transcribed at any given time . and that 's just amazingly helpful . because what happens then , is you scan across the signal and once in a while you 'll find a blip that did n't show up in the pre - segmentation . grad f : oh , right . postdoc a : and that 'll be something like i it 's ver it 's interesting . grad f : i see what you mean . a backchannel , or postdoc a : once in a while it 's a backchannel . sometimes it seems to be , um , similar to the ones that are being picked up . grad f : mm - hmm . postdoc a : and they 're rare events , but you can really go through a meeting very quickly . you just you just , you know , yo you s you scroll from screen to screen , looking for blips . and , i think that we 're gon na end up with , uh better coverage of the backchannels , professor d : yeah . postdoc a : but at the same time we 're benefitting tremendously from the pre - segmentation because there are huge places where there is just absolutely no activity at all . and , uh , the audio quality is so good professor d : mm - hmm . phd b : so they can they can , um , scroll through that pretty quick ? postdoc a : yeah . mm - hmm . phd b : that 's great . postdoc a : yeah . so i think that that 's gon na , also eh , { comment } you know , speed the efficiency of this part of the process . professor d : hmm . ok . uh , yeah . so , uh yeah . so let 's talk about the digits , since they 're not here yet . grad f : uh , so , we have a whole bunch of digits that we 've read and we have the forms and so on , um , but only a small number of that ha well , not a small number only a subset of that has been transcribed . and so we need to decide what we wan na do . and , uh , liz and andreas actually they 're not here , but , they did say at one point that they thought they could do a pretty good job of just doing a forced alignment . and , again , i do n't think we 'll be able to do with that alone , because , um , sometimes people correct themselves and things like that . but so , i was just wondering what people thought about how automated can we make the process of finding where the people read the digits , doing a forced alignment , and doing the timing . professor d : well , forced alignment would be one thing . what about just actually doing recognition ? grad f : well , we we know what they read , because we have the forms . professor d : no , they make mistakes . grad f : right . but , the point is that we wan na get a set of clean digits . phd b : you 're talking about as a pre - processing step . professor d : right . phd b : right , morgan ? professor d : um phd b : is that what you 're ? professor d : yeah , i 'm i 'm not quite sure what i 'm talking about . i mean i i mean , uh , we 're talking about digits now . and and so , um , there 's a bunch of stuff that has n't been marked yet . uh . and , um , there 's the issue that that they we know what what was said , but do we ? grad f : i mean , so one option i professor d : because people make mistakes and stuff . i was just asking , just out of curiosity , if if with , uh uh , the sri recognizer getting one percent word error , uh , would we would we do better ? so , if you do a forced alignment but the force but the but the transcription you have is wrong because they actually made mistakes , uh , or false starts , it 's it 's much less c it 's much less common than one percent ? grad f : but that 's pretty uncommon . um , if we could really get one percent on professor d : we should be able to . grad f : well , i guess yeah , i guess if we segmented it , we could get one percent on digits . professor d : right ? phd b : yeah . professor d : yeah . so that 's just my question . i 'm not saying it should be one way or the other , but it 's if grad f : but , well , there there 're a couple different of doing it . we could use the tools i 've already developed and transcribe it . hire some people , or use the transcribers to do it . we could let ibm transcribe it . you know , they 're doing it anyway , and unless we tell them different , they 're gon na transcribe it . um , or we could try some automated methods . professor d : well grad f : and my my tendency right now is , well , if ibm comes back with this meeting and the transcript is good , just let them do it . professor d : yeah , it 's y you raised a point , kind of , uh , euphemistically but , i mean , m maybe it is a serious problem . ho - what will they do when they go hear `` beep seven beep seven three five two `` i mean , you think they 'll we 'll get ? grad f : it 's pretty distinct . professor d : yeah ? grad f : the beeps are pre - recorded . phd b : it 'll { comment } only be a problem for m for mine . phd e : yeah . postdoc a : well it it well , it 'd be preceded by `` i 'm reading transcript so - and - so `` ? phd b : yeah . postdoc a : so , i think if they 're processing it at grad f : i mean , it 'll be it will be in the midst of a digit string . professor d : yeah . grad f : so i mean it sure , there there might be a place where it 's `` beep seven beep eight beep eight beep `` . but , you know , they they 're they 're gon na macros for inserting the beep marks . and so , i i do n't think it 'll be a problem . we 'll have to see , but i do n't think it 's gon na be a problem . professor d : ok . well , i i i dunno , i i think that that 's if they are in fact going to transcribe these things , uh , certainly any process that we 'd have to correct them , or whatever is needs to be much less elaborate for digits than for other stuff . grad f : right . professor d : so , why not ? sure . that was it ? grad f : that was it . just , what do we do with digits ? we have so many of them , and it 'd be nice to actually do something with them . professor d : well , we we we wan na have them . yeah , i phd i : you mean there 're more than ten ? grad f : anything else ? your mike is a little low there . professor d : i in berkeley , yeah . so , uh you you have to go a little early , right ? at twenty phd i : well , i can stay till about , uh , three forty . professor d : alright . so le let 's make sure we do the ones that that , uh , saved you . phd i : yeah . mm - hmm . professor d : so there was some uh in in adam 's agenda list , he had something from you about segmentation this last recognition ? phd i : well , yeah . so this is just partly to inform everybody , um , and and of course to get , um , input . grad f : oops . phd i : um , so , uh , we had a discussion don and liz and i had discussion last week about how to proceed with , uh , you know , with don 's work , and and and , uh , one of the obvious things that occur to us was that we 're since we now have thilo 's segmenter and it works , you know , amazingly well , um , we should actually basically re - evaluate the recognition , um , results using you know , without cheating on the segmentations . phd e : so phd i : and , that should be fairly phd e : and how do we find the transcripts for those so that ? yeah . the references for for those segments ? phd i : oh , ok . so , there 's actually phd e : it 's not that phd i : why do you ask ? grad f : i could phd i : no , actually , um , nist has , um m a fairly sophisticated scoring program that you can give a , um a time , grad f : hand ones . phd g : well phd i : uh you know , you basically just give two time - marked sequences of words , and it computes the um the , { comment } uh { comment } you know , the the th phd b : it does all the work for you . phd i : it does all the work for you . phd b : yeah . phd i : so , it we just and we use that actually in hub - five to do the scoring . um . so what we 've been using so far was sort of a simplified version of the scoring . and we can we can handle the the the type of problem we have here . phd e : so , basically you give some time constraints for for the references and for for the hypothesis , phd i : so , we ha yeah . right . phd e : and yeah , ok . phd g : yeah . phd i : right . phd g : maybe the start of your speech and the end of it , or stuff like that . phd i : right . it does time - constrained word - alignment . so . so that should be possible . i mean that should n't be a problem . uh , so that was the one thing , and the other was that , um what was the other problem ? oh ! that thilo wanted to use the recognizer alignments to train up his , um , speech detector . phd e : yeah . phd i : um , so that we could use , uh you know there would n't be so much hand labelling needed to , uh to generate training data for for the speech detector . phd e : yeah . i 'm just in progress of of doing that . so . phd i : and i think you 're in the process of doing that . phd e : yeah . phd i : so , you can { comment } you can phd b : it 'll give you a lot more data , too . wo n't it ? phd e : yeah . so , it 's basically s i think , eight meetings or something which which i 'm using , and , it 's before it was twenty minutes of one meeting . phd i : mm - hmm . phd e : so should { comment } be a little bit better . phd i : right . phd b : great . phd i : that wo n't be perfect the alignments are n't perfect , phd e : yeah . but phd i : but , um , it 's probably still better to have all this extra data , than phd g : yeah . phd e : yeah . yep . phd i : yeah . phd e : we 'll see that . phd i : yeah . phd g : actually , i had a question about that . if you find that you can lower the false alarms that you get where there 's no speech , that would be useful for us to know . so , um phd e : there were the false alarms . phd g : yeah . so , r right now you get f fal you know , false false , uh , speech regions when it 's just like , um , breath or something like that , phd e : ok . yeah . yep . phd g : and i 'd be interested to know the wha if you retrain um , phd e : yeah . phd g : do those actually go down or not ? because of phd e : yeah . i 'll can make an can , like , make a c comparison of of the old system to the to the new one , and then phd g : yeah , just to see if by doing nothing in the modeling of just having that training data wh what happens . phd e : yeah . yeah . yep . professor d : um another one that we had on adam 's agenda that definitely involved you was s something about smartkom ? grad f : right . so , rob porzel eh , porzel ? and the , uh porzel and the , uh , smartkom group are collecting some dialogues . phd i : porzel . porzel . grad f : basically they have one person sitting in here , looking at a picture , and a wizard sitting in another room somewhere . and , uh , they 're doing a travel task . and , uh , it involves starting i believe starting with a it 's it 's always the wizard , but it starts where the wizard is pretending to be a computer and it goes through a , uh , speech generation system . phd e : yeah . actually , it 's changed to a synthesis for for the first part now . grad f : synthesis system . phd e : yeah . grad f : um , and then , it goes to a real wizard and they 're evaluating that . and they wanted to use this equipment , and so the w question came up , is well , here 's some more data . should this be part of the corpus or not ? and my attitude was yes , because there might be people who are using this corpus for acoustics , as opposed to just for language . um , or also for dialogue of various sorts . um , so it 's not a meeting . right ? because it 's two people and they 're not face to face . professor d : wait a minute . so , i just wanted to understand it , cuz i i 'm uh , had n't quite followed this process . phd e : yeah . professor d : um . so , it 's wizard in the sen usual sense that the person who is asking the questions does n't know that it 's , uh , a machi not a machine ? phd i : right . grad f : at the beginning . phd i : actually actually , w w the the we do this i dunno who came up with it , but i think it 's a really clever idea . we simulate a computer breakdown halfway through the session , and so then after that , the person 's told that they 're now talking to a , uh to a human . professor d : yeah . phd e : it 's a human operator . professor d : yeah . phd e : yeah . grad f : but of course they do n't know that it 's the same person both times . phd i : so , we we collect we collect both human - computer and human - human data , essentially , in the same session . professor d : you might wan na try collecting it the other way around sometime , saying that th the computer is n't up yet and then so then you can separate it out whether it 's the beginning or end kind of effects . phd i : that 's an idea . professor d : but , yeah . phd i : yeah . postdoc a : that 's a good idea . grad f : `` i have to go now . you can talk to the computer . `` phd b : it 's a lot more believable , too , grad f : `` no ! `` phd b : if you tell them that they 're the computer part is running on a windows machine . and the whole breakdown thing kinda makes sense . phd i : o just just reboot it . grad f : abort abort , retry , fail ? phd g : so did they actually save the far - field data ? grad f : well , this was this was the question . phd g : cuz at first they were n't they were n't sa phd i : yeah . grad f : so so they were saying they were not going to , phd e : yeah . grad f : and i said , `` well that 's silly , if if we 're gon na try to do it for a corpus , there might be people who are interested in acoustics . `` phd g : yeah . or phd e : projector { comment } we were not saying we are not doing it . phd g : yeah . phd e : we wer we just wanted to do phd i : no , the the question is do we save one or two far - field channels or all of them ? phd g : right . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad f : i i see no reason not to do all of them . professor d : um grad f : that that if we have someone who is doing acoustic studies , uh , it 's nice to have the same for every recording . phd g : nnn . yeah . professor d : so , what is the purpose of this recording ? phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : this is to get acoustic and language model training data for smartkom . ok . phd i : it 's to be traini to b training data and development data for the smartkom system . phd e : the english system ? yeah . phd i : yeah . right . right . phd b : where does this ? phd g : maybe we can have him vary the microphones , too , professor d : well , phd g : or they 're different s speakers . grad f : right . so so so for their usage , they do n't need anything . professor d : so why not ? phd e : yeah . grad f : right ? phd e : but but i 'm not sure about the legal aspect of of that . is is there some contract with smartkom or something about the data ? phd i : yeah . phd e : what they or , is is that our data which we are collecting here , professor d : we 've never signed anything that said that we could n't use anything that we did . phd e : or ? ok . ok . phd i : we were n't supposed to collect any data . phd e : so . ok . professor d : yeah . phd e : so . yeah , th th that was the question . phd i : this was all phd e : if if ? yeah . phd i : yeah . professor d : no that 's not a problem . phd e : basically . professor d : i l look , it seems to me that if we 're doing it anyway and we 're doing it for these these purposes that we have , and we have these distant mikes , we definitely should re should save it all as long as we 've got disk space , phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : and disk is pretty cheap . so should we save it ? grad f : and then professor d : now th yeah . so we save it because it 's it it 's potentially useful . and now , what do we do with it is is a s separate question . grad f : right . professor d : i mean , anybody who 's training something up could choose to put it eh , to u include this or not . phd i : right . professor d : i i would not say it was part of the meetings corpus . it is n't . but it 's some other data we have , and if somebody doing experiment wants to train up including that then they can . right ? phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : so it 's it it i guess it the begs the question of what is the meeting corpus . so if , at uw they start recording two - person hallway conversations is that part of the meeting corpus ? professor d : i think it 's i i think i th think the idea of two or more people conversing with one another is key . grad f : well , this has two or more people conversing with each other . professor d : nnn , well phd e : yeah . postdoc a : well this grad f : they 're just not face to face . phd g : what if we just give it a a name like we give these meetings a name ? professor d : no , it does n't . right ? it has grad f : i mean , that was my intention . phd g : and then later on some people will consider it a meeting and some people wo n't , postdoc a : well this professor d : yeah . grad f : that was my intention . so so s so part of the reason that i wanted to bring this up is , do we wan na handle it as a special case or do we wan na fold it in , phd g : and just give it a title . professor d : i think it is a s grad f : we give everyone who 's involved as their own user id , give it session i ds , let all the tools that handle meeting recorder handle it , or do we wan na special case it ? and if we were gon na special case it , who 's gon na do that ? phd i : well , it it makes sense to handle it with the same infrastructure , since we do n't want to duplicate things unnecessarily . phd e : it it it postdoc a : i think phd i : but as far as distributing it , we should n't label it as part of this meeting corpus . professor d : yeah . phd i : we should let it be its own corp postdoc a : well it 's it well , because grad f : i do n't see why not . it 's just a different topic . postdoc a : i ha i have an extra point , which is the naturalness issue . because we have , like , meetings that have a reason . that 's one of the reasons that we were talking about this . and and those and this sounds like it 's more of an experimental setup . professor d : yeah . postdoc a : it 's got a different purpose . professor d : it 's scenario - based , it 's it 's human - computer interface it 's really pretty different . postdoc a : yeah . professor d : but i i i have no problem with somebody folding it in for some experiment they 're gon na do , but i do n't think i it it does n't match anything that we 've described about meetings . grad f : mm - hmm . professor d : whereas everything that we talked about them doing at at uw and so forth really does . they 're actually talking grad f : ok . so w so what does that mean for how we are gon na organize things ? phd e : yeah . professor d : you can you can again , as as i think andreas was saying , if you wan na use the same tools and the same conventions , there 's no problem with that . it 's just that it 's , you know , different directory , it 's called something different , it 's you know . it is different . you ca n't just fold it in as if it 's i mean , digits are different , too . right ? grad f : yeah , but those are folded in , phd i : it might also be potentially confusing . grad f : and it 's just you just mark the transcripts differently . so so one option is you fold it in , phd i : right . grad f : and just simply in the file you mark somewhere that this is this type of interaction , rather than another type of interaction . phd i : yeah , i th professor d : well , i don i would n't call reading digits `` meetings `` . right ? i mean , we we we were doing grad f : well , but but , i put it under the same directory tree . professor d : well grad f : you know , it 's in `` user doctor speech data mr `` . phd g : can we just have a directory called , like , `` other stuff `` ? grad f : other . phd g : and well or , i dunno . professor d : i mean , i do n't care what directory tree you have it under . phd g : and and just , um , store it there . professor d : right ? i mean that 's just a grad f : ok . my preference is to have a single procedure so that i do n't have to think too much about things . phd g : i mean professor d : yeah . grad f : and , just have a marking . professor d : o - you you can use whatever procedure you want that 's p convenient for you . grad f : if we do it any other way that means that we need a separate procedure , and someone has to do that . professor d : all i 'm saying is that there 's no way that we 're gon na tell people that reading digits is meetings . and similarly we 're not gon na tell them that someone talking to a computer to get travel information is meetings . grad f : right . professor d : those are n't meetings . but if it makes it easier for you to pu fold them in the same procedures and have them under the same directory tree , knock yourself out . phd b : there 's a couple other questions that i have too , professor d : you know ? phd b : and and one of them is , what about , uh , consent issues ? and the other one is , what about transcription ? are ? phd e : transcription is done in munich . phd b : ok . so we do n't have to worry about transcribing it ? professor d : alright . phd e : yeah . grad f : so , w we will hafta worry about format . phd i : that 's a that 's another argument to keep it separate , because it 's gon na follow the smartkom transcription conventions and not the icsi meeting transcription conventions . phd e : yeah . grad f : oh , ok . professor d : ah . good point . grad f : ok . well , i did n't realize that . that 's that 's a professor d : good point . but i 'm sure no one would have a problem with our folding it in for some acoustic modeling or or some things . um . do we h do we have , uh , um , american - born folk , uh , reading german german , uh , pla uh , place names and so forth ? is that ? phd e : yeah . phd i : exactly . professor d : yeah , great . phd e : yeah . phd i : yeah . grad f : they they even have a reading list . phd b : i bet that sounds good , huh ? professor d : yeah . grad f : it 's pretty funny . phd i : yeah . phd e : you can do that if you want . professor d : yeah . phd b : i dunno if you want that . professor d : right . phd i : yeah . professor d : heidelberg grad f : so phd i : exactly grad f : disk might eventually be an issue so we might we we might need to , uh , get some more disk pretty soon . phd i : do you wan na be a subject ? professor d : yeah , i be pretty good . phd i : we yeah . grad f : we 're about we 're about half halfway through our disk right now . phd b : yeah . phd i : that was one of our concerns . phd b : are we only half ? i thought we were more than that . grad f : we 're probably a little more than that because we 're using up some space that we should n't be on . so , once everything gets converted over to the disks we 're supposed to be using we 'll be probably , uh , seventy - five percent . phd b : well , when i was looking for space for thilo , i found one disk that had , uh , i think it was nine gigs and another one had seventeen . and everything else was sorta committed . uh grad f : were those backed - up or non - backed - up ? phd b : those were non - backed - up . phd e : non - back - up . grad f : right . so that 's different . phd b : s oh , you 're talking about backed - up . grad f : i 'm much more concerned about the backed - up . the non - backed - up , phd b : i have n't looked to see how much of that we have . grad f : yeah , i is cheap . i mean , if we need to we can buy a disk , hang it off a s uh , workstation . if it 's not backed - up the sysadmins do n't care too much . professor d : yeah . so , i mean , pretty much anytime we need a disk , we can get it at the rate that we 're phd i : you can i should n't be saying this , but , you can just you know , since the back - ups are every night , you can recycle the backed - up diskspace . grad f : yeah . but that 's that 's that 's risky . professor d : yeah . you really should n't be saying grad f : mmm . mmm . phd i : i did n't say that . grad f : yeah , that 's right . phd i : i did n't say that . grad f : beep that out . professor d : da - we had allowed dave to listen to these these , uh , recordings . phd i : right . professor d : um yeah , i me and there 's been this conversation going on about getting another file server , and and we can do that . phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : we 'll take the opportunity and get another big raft of of disk , i guess . grad f : yeah . it 's really the back - up issue rather than the file server issue . phd i : well , i think { comment } i think there 's an argument for having you know , you could use our old file server for for disks that have data that is very rarely accessed , and then have a fast new file server for data that is , um , heavily accessed . grad f : yeah . my understanding is , the issue is n't really the file server . phd i : yeah . grad f : we could always put more disks on . phd i : yeah . it 's the back it 's the back - up capaci grad f : it 's the back - up system . phd i : yeah . grad f : so which is near saturation , apparently . so . phd b : i think i think the file server could become an issue as we get a whole bunch more new compute machines . professor d : soon . phd b : and we 've got , you know , fifty machines trying to access data off of abbott at once . grad f : well , we 're alright for now because the network 's so slow . phd i : i mean , i think i think we 've raised this before and someone said this is not a reliable way to do it , but the what about putting the stuff on , like , c - cd - rom or dvd or something ? grad f : yeah . that was me . i was the one who said it was not reliable . the - they they wear out . phd i : ok . oh , ok . grad f : yeah . the the th phd i : but they wear out just from sitting on the shelf ? grad f : yep . absolutely . phd i : or from being read and read ? grad f : no . read and write do n't hurt them too much unless you scratch them . phd i : oh , ok . grad f : but the r the write once , and the read - writes , do n't last . so you do n't wa you do n't wan na put ir un reproduceable data on them . phd i : uh - huh . phd b : wear out after what amount of time ? grad f : year or two . postdoc a : would it be ? professor d : year or two ? phd i : but if that then you would think you 'd hear much more clamoring about data loss phd e : yeah . phd i : and professor d : i mean , yeah , all the l grad f : i i do n't know many people who do it on cd . i mean , they 're the most fo professor d : ldc - all the ldc distributions are on cd - rom . phd g : yeah . grad f : they 're on cd , but they 're not tha that 's not the only source . phd g : like grad f : they have them on disk . and they burn new ones every once in a while . but if you go if you go k phd i : but , you know , we have phd g : but we have like thirty you know , from ten years ago ? professor d : we have all sorts of cd - roms from a long time ago . phd e : yeah . phd g : yeah ! grad f : well , th th ok . phd g : ten years ago . phd i : right . phd g : ninety - one , and they 're still all fine . professor d : yeah . grad h : were they burned or were they pressed ? phd g : uh , both . i 've burned them and they 're still ok . grad h : yeah . grad f : the the pressed ones last for phd g : i mean , usually they 're grad f : well , not forever , they 've been finding even those degrade . professor d : oh , i see . grad f : but , uh , the burned ones i mean , when i say two or three years what i 'm saying is that i have had disks which are gone in a year . phd g : that 's what i grad f : on the average , it 'll probably be three or four years . but , uh i i you do n't want to per p have your only copy on a media that fails . and they do . um , if you have them professionally pressed , y you know , they 're good for decades . phd i : so how about ? so so how about putting them on that plus , like on a on on dat or some other medium that is n't risky ? grad f : i think th um , we can already put them on tape . and the tape is hi is very reliable . phd i : ok . mm - hmm . grad f : so the the only issue is then if we need access to them . so that 's fine f if we do n't need access to them . phd i : right . well , if if if you if they last say , they actually last , like , five years , huh , in in the typical case , and and occasionally you might need to recreate one , and then you get your tape out , but otherwise you do n't . ca n't you just you just put them on ? grad h : so you just archive it on the tape , and then put it on cd as well ? phd i : yeah . right . grad f : oh . so you 're just saying put them on c ds for normal access . grad h : yeah . phd i : right . phd b : what you grad f : yeah . i mean , you can do that but that 's pretty annoying , because the c ds are so slow . phd g : see yeah . grad h : yeah . phd b : what 'd be nice is a system that re - burned the c ds every year . phd g : h everytime it was a `` gon na `` `` gon na die `` . professor d : well grad f : well , i mean , the c ds are are an op phd e : yeah . phd i : it 's like like dynamic ra dram . phd e : just before . phd b : yeah . phd g : just before they be before it goes bad , it burns them in . grad f : the the cd is an alternative to tape . grad h : yeah . grad f : icsi already has a perfectly good tape system and it 's more reliable . professor d : you know i would think grad f : so for archiving , we 'll just use tape . phd i : one one thing i do n't understand is , if you have the data if if you if the meeting data is put on disk exactly once , then it 's backed - up once and the back - up system should never have to bother with it , uh , more than once . grad f : well , regardless well , first of all there was , um , a problem with the archive in that i was every once in a while doing a chmod on all the directories an or recursive chmod and chown , because they were n't getting set correctly every once in a while , phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : and i was just , doing a minus r star , not realizing that that caused it to be re - backed - up . phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : but normally you 're correct . but even without that , the back - up system is becoming saturated . phd i : but but this back - up system is smart enough to figure out that something has n't changed and does n't need to be backed - up again . professor d : the b i think th the at least the once tha that you put it on , it would it would { comment } kill that . grad f : sure , but we still have enough changed that the nightly back - ups are starting to take too long . phd i : ok . so so then , if so so then , let 's grad f : it has nothing to do with the meeting . it 's just the general icsi back - up system is becoming saturated . phd i : right . ok . right . so , what if we buy , uh uh , what what do they call these , um high density ? grad f : well , why do n't you have this have a this conversation with dave johnson tha rather than with me ? phd i : no , no . because this is maybe something that we can do without involving dave , and and , putting more burden on him . how about we buy , uh uh uh , one of these high density tape drives ? and we put the data actually on non - backed - up disks . and we do our own back - up once and for all all , and then and we do n't have to bother this @ @ up ? grad f : actually , you know , we could do that just with the tape with the current tape . phd i : i dunno what the these tapes uh , at some point these i dunno . what kind of tape drive is it ? grad f : i dunno but it 's an automatic robot so it 's very convenient . phd i : is it is ? professor d : wh the o the one that we have ? grad f : you just run a program to restore them . phd i : right . professor d : the i mean grad f : yeah . phd i : but it might interfere with their back - up schedule , phd g : but professor d : no , we have s we do n't we have our own ? something wi th that does n't that is n't used by the back - up gang ? do n't we have something downstairs ? postdoc a : well they phd b : what kinda tape drive ? professor d : just in ? yeah . grad f : well but no , but andreas 's point is a good one . and we do n't have to do anything ourselves to do that . they 're already right now on tape . phd i : right . grad f : right . so your your point is , and i think it 's a good one , that we could just get more disk and put it there . phd i : mmm . on an xh uh , x x whatever partition . grad f : yeah . that 's not a bad idea . phd i : yeah . professor d : yeah , that 's basically what i was gon na say , is that a disk is is so cheap it 's es essentially , you know , close to free . and the only thing that costs is the back - up issue , eh , to first order . grad f : so once it 's on tape phd i : right . right . professor d : and we can take care of that by putting it on non - back up drives and just backing it up once onto this tape . phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : i think that 's a good idea . phd i : right . professor d : oh . yeah . good . it 's good . phd g : so , who 's gon na do these back - ups ? the people that collect it ? grad f : uh well , i 'll talk to dave , and and see what th how what the best way of doing that is . phd b : it 's probably gon na n grad f : there 's a little utility that will manually burn a tape for you , and that 's probably the right way to do it . phd b : yeah , and we should probably make that part of the procedure for recording the meetings . phd g : well , s yeah . that 's what i 'm wondering , if grad f : well we 're g we 're gon na automate that . my intention is to do a script that 'll do everything . phd g : i mean , you do n't have to physically put a tape in the drive ? grad f : no . it 's all tape robot , phd g : or s ? s ? { comment } oh , ok . grad f : so you just sit down at your computer and you type a command . phd g : so it 's just oh , ok . phd i : yeah , but then you 're effectively using the resources of the back - up system . or is that a different tape robot ? grad f : yeah . phd g : but not at the same time . grad f : but y but you would be anyway . phd b : no , no , no . grad f : right ? phd b : he 's saying get a whole different drive . grad f : because phd i : no , no . see grad f : but there 's no reason to do that . phd i : yeah , just give a dedi grad f : it we already have it there and it it 's phd i : well , i 'm saying is @ @ i if you go to dave , and and and ask him `` can i use your tape robot ? `` , he will say , `` well that 's gon na screw up our back - up operation . `` grad f : no , we wo n't . he 'll say `` if if that means that it 's not gon na be backed - up standardly , great . `` professor d : he - i dave has has promoted this in the past . so i do n't think he 's actually against it . grad f : yeah . it 's it 's definitely no problem . phd i : oh , ok . alright . professor d : yeah . phd i : alright . good . phd g : what about if the times overlap with the normal back - up time ? grad f : um , it 's it 's just it 's just a utility which queues up . it just queues it up and and when it 's available , it will copy it . professor d : yeah . grad f : and then you can tell it to then remove it from the disk or you can , you know , do it a a few days later or whatever you wan na do , after you confirm that it 's really backed - up . nw ? postdoc a : you saying nw archive ? grad f : nw archive . postdoc a : yep { comment } and if you did that during the day it would never make it to the nightly back - ups . grad f : that 's what it is . right . postdoc a : and then there would n't be this extra load . phd i : well , it if he you have to put the data on a on a non - backed - up disk to begin with . postdoc a : well , but you can have it nw archive to you can have , uh , a non - backed - up disk nw archived , grad f : right . phd i : so that so that otherwise you do n't you postdoc a : and it 'll never show up on the nightly back - ups . grad f : right . and then it never phd i : right . right . grad f : right . which i 'm sure would make ever the sysadmins very happy . phd i : right . postdoc a : yeah . grad f : so , i think that 's a good idea . that 's what we should do . so , that means we 'll probably wan na convert all all those files filesystems to non - backed - up media . phd b : that sounds good . professor d : yeah . um , another , thing on the agenda said sri recognition experiments ? what 's that ? phd i : sri recognition ? oh . grad f : that was n't me . phd i : um . well , professor d : who 's that ? phd i : we have lots of them . uh , i dunno . chuck , do you have any any updates ? phd b : n i 'm successfully , uh , increasing the error rate . uh grad f : that 's good . phd g : lift the herve approach . phd b : yeah . so , i mean i 'm just playing with , um , the number of gaussians that we use in the the recognizer , and phd i : well , you have to sa you have to tell people that you 're you 're doing you 're trying the tandem features . phd b : yes , i 'm using tandem features . grad f : oh you are ? phd b : and grad f : cool . phd i : a and i 'm still tinkering with the plp features . professor d : yeah , i got confused by the results . it sai because uh , the meeting before , you said `` ok , we got it down to where they 're they 're within a tenth of a percent `` . phd b : that was on males . phd i : right . that was that was before i tried it on the females . see , women are nothi are , trouble . professor d : it 's the women are the problem . ok . phd i : right ? as we all know . so . phd g : well , let 's just say that men are simple . phd i : so { comment } so , when so i i had i ha grad f : that was a quick response . phd i : so , we had reached the point where phd g : i 'm well rehearsed . professor d : yeah . phd i : we had reached the point where , { comment } um , on the male portion of the development set , the , um or one of the development sets , i should say the , um the male error rate with , uh , icsi plp features was pretty much identical with , uh , sri features . which are mfcc . so , um , then i thought , `` oh , great . i 'll j i 'll just let 's make sure everything works on the females . `` and the error rate you know , there was a three percent difference . professor d : oh . uh - huh . phd g : is there less training data ? phd i : uh phd g : i mean , we don phd i : no , actually there 's more training data . phd g : this is on just digits ? phd i : no , no . phd b : hub - five . grad f : it 's , uh , swi phd g : oh , sorry . ok . this is on phd i : this is hub - five . phd g : oh , ok . grad f : hub - five . yeah . phd i : yeah . um , and the test data is callhome and switchboard . so , uh so then um oh , and plus the the vocal tract length normalization did n't actually made things worse . so something 's really seriously wrong . so um professor d : aha ! ok . phd i : so so professor d : so but you see , now , between between the males and the females , there 's certainly a much bigger difference in the scaling range , than there is , say , just within the males . and what you were using before was scaling factors that were just from the the m the sri front - end . and that worked that worked fine . phd i : that 's true . yeah . professor d : uh , but now you 're looking over a larger range and it may not be so fine . phd i : well , um so i just d so the one thing that i then tried was to put in the low - pass filter , which we have in the so , most most hub - five systems actually band - limit the uh , at about , uh , thirty - seven hundred , um , hertz . professor d : uh - huh . phd i : although , you know , normally , i mean , the channel goes to four four thousand . right ? so , um and that actually helped , uh uh , a little bit . professor d : uh - huh . phd i : um and it did n't hurt on the males either . so , um and i 'm now , uh , trying the oh , and suddenly , also the v the vocal tract length normalization only in the test se on the test data . so , you can do vocal tract length normalization on the test data only or on both the training and the test . professor d : yeah . phd i : and you expect it to help a little bit if you do it only on the test , and s more if you do it on both training and test . professor d : yeah . phd i : and so the it now helps , if you do it only on the test , and i 'm currently retraining another set of models where it 's both in the training and the test , and then we 'll we 'll have , hopefully , even better results . so but there 's it looks like there will still be some difference , maybe between one and two percent , um , for the females . and so , um , you know , i 'm open to suggestions . grad f : mm - hmm . phd i : and it is true that the , uh that the you know , we are using the but it ca n't be just the vtl , professor d : uh - huh . phd i : because if you do n't do vtl in both systems , uh , you know , the the females are considerably worse in the with the plp features . professor d : no no . i i remember that . grad f : it 's much worse . yeah . phd i : so there must be some something else going on . phd g : well , what 's the standard ? yeah , so i thought the performance was actually a little better on females than males . grad f : that 's what i thought , too . phd i : um , that ye { comment } overall , yes , but on this particular development test set , they 're actually a little worse . but that 's beside the point . we 're looking at the discrepancy between the sri system and the sri system when trained with icsi features . phd g : right . i 'm just wondering if that if if you have any indication of your standard features , grad f : what 's are the freq ? phd g : you know , if that 's also different or in the same direction or not . professor d : you 're this is lem me ask a q more basic que phd g : cuz professor d : i mean , is this , uh uh , iterative , baum - welch training ? phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : or is it viterbi training ? or ? phd i : it 's baum - welch training . professor d : baum - welch training . and how do you determine when to to stop iterating ? phd i : um well , actually , we we just basically do a s a fixed number of iterations . uh , in this case four . um , which eh , we used to do only three , and then we found out we can squeeze and it was basically , we 're s we 're keeping it on the safe side . but you 're d right . it might be that one more iteration would would help , but it 's sort of professor d : or maybe or maybe you 're doing one too many . phd i : you know . professor d : i mean it 's it 's phd i : no , but with baum - welch , there should n't be an over - fitting issue , really . professor d : uh . { comment } well , there can be . sure . grad f : well , you can try each one on a cross - validation set , professor d : it d if you if you remember some years ago bill byrne did a thing where he was he was looking at that , grad f : ca n't you ? professor d : and he showed that you could get it . phd i : yeah . professor d : so . but { comment } but but , um phd i : well , yeah . we can well , that 's that 's the easy one to check , professor d : yeah . phd i : because we save all the intermediate models grad f : do you ? phd i : and we can professor d : and in each case , ho grad f : what ? professor d : um , i 'm sorry in each case how do you determine , you know , the the usual fudge factors ? the , uh the , uh , language , uh , scaling , acoustic scaling , uh , uh phd i : um i uh { comment } i 'm actually re - optimizing them . although that has n't shown to make a big difference . professor d : ok . and the pru the question he was asking at one point about pruning , uh remember that one ? phd i : pruning ? professor d : well , he was he 's it looked like the probabil at one point he was looking at the probabilities he was getting out at the likelihoods he was getting out of plp versus mel cepstrum , and they looked pretty different , phd i : pruning in the ? phd b : yeah , the likelihoods were lower for the plp . professor d : as i recall . and so , uh , there 's the question phd i : i you mean did you see this in the sri system ? phd b : mm - hmm . was just looking through the log files , phd i : um . well , the likelihoods are phd b : and phd i : you ca n't directly compare them , because , for every set of models you compute a new normalization . and so these log probabilities , they are n't directly comparable because you have a different normalization constants for each model you train . professor d : but , still it 's a question phd i : so professor d : if you have some threshold somewhere in terms of beam search or something , phd b : well , yeah . that 's what i was wondering . professor d : or ? phd i : w yeah . i mean uh phd b : i mean , if you have one threshold that works well because the range of your likelihoods is in this area phd i : we prune very conservatively . i mean , as we saw with the meeting data , um we could probably tighten the pruning without really so we we basically we have a very open beam . professor d : but , you 're only talking about a percent or two . phd b : yeah . professor d : right ? here we 're - we 're saying that we there gee , there 's this b eh , there 's this difference here . and it see cuz , i i { comment } there could be lots of things . right ? but but but but , um , let 's suppose just for a second that , uh , we 've sort of taken out a lot of the the major differences , uh , between the two . phd i : right . course . mm - hmm . right . professor d : i mean , we 're already sort of using the mel scale and we 're using the same style filter integration , and and , well , we 're making sure that low and high phd i : actually , there is the difference in that . so , for the plp features we use the triangular filter shapes . and for the in the sri front - end we use the trapezoidal one . grad f : and what 's the top frequency of each ? phd i : well , now it 's the same . it 's thirty thirty to seven hundred and sixty hertz . grad f : yeah . exp - one 's triangular , one 's trapezoidal . so phd i : no , no . but professor d : before we i i th with straight plp , it 's trapezoidal also . phd i : well but professor d : but then we had a slight difference in the in the scale . uh , so . phd i : since currently the feacalc program does n't allow me to change the filter shape independently of the scale . grad f : uh - huh . phd i : and , i did the experiment on the sri front - end where i tried the y where the standard used to be to use trapezoidal filters . you can actually continuously vary it between the two . and so i wen i swi i tried the trap eh , triangular ones . and it did slightly worse , but it 's really a small difference . professor d : coup - couple tenths of a percent or something . phd i : so professor d : right . grad f : so it 's not just losing some frequency range . phd i : yeah , exactly . so , it 's not i do n't think the filter shape by itself will make a huge { comment } difference . professor d : yeah . right . so the oth the other thing that grad f : yeah . professor d : so , f i we 've always viewed it , anyway , as the major difference between the two , is actually in the smoothing , that the that the , um , plp , and and the reason plp has been advantageous in , uh , slightly noisy situations is because , plp does the smoothing at the end by an auto - regressive model , phd i : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor d : and mel cepstrum does it by just computing the lower cepstral coefficients . phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : um . so , um mm - hmm . phd i : ok . so one thing i have n't done yet is to actually do all of this with a much larger with our full training set . so right now , we 're using a i do n't know , forty ? i i it 's it 's eh { comment } it 's a f training set that 's about , um , you know , by a factor of four smaller than what we use when we train the full system . so , some of these smoothing issues are over - fitting for that matter . professor d : mm - hmm . phd i : and the baum - welch should be much less of a factor , if you go full whole hog . professor d : could be . yeah . phd i : and so , w so , just um so the strategy is to first sort of treat things with fast turn - around on a smaller training set and then , when you 've sort of , narrowed it down , you try it on a larger training set . professor d : yeah . phd i : and so , we have n't done that yet . professor d : now the other que related question , though , is is , uh , what 's the boot models for these things ? phd i : th - th the boot models are trained from scratch . so we compute , um so , we start with a , um , alil alignment that we computed with the b sort of the best system we have . and and then we train from scratch . so we com we do a , you know , w um we collect the uh , the observations from those alignments under each of the feature sets that that we train . and then , from there we do , um there 's a lot of , actually the way it works , you first train a phonetically - tied mixture model . um . you do a total of first you do a context - independent ptm model . then you switch to a context you do two iterations of that . then you do two iterations of of of context - dependent phonetically - tied mixtures . and then from that you you do the you you go to a state - clustered model , professor d : yeah . phd i : and you do four iterations of that . so there 's a lot of iterations overall between your original boot models and the final models . i do n't think that hmm . we have never seen big differences . once i thought `` oh , i can now i have these much better models . i 'll re - generate my initial alignments . then i 'll get much better models at the end . `` made no difference whatsoever . it 's i think it 's eh , i professor d : right . well , mis for making things better . phd i : the boot models are recur professor d : yeah . but , this for making things worse . this it migh th - the thought is is is possible another possible partial cause is if the boot models used a comple used a different feature set , that phd i : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . but there are no boot models , in fact . you you 're not booting from initial models . you 're booting from initial alignments . professor d : which you got from a different feature set . phd i : that 's correct . professor d : so , those features look at the data differently , actually . phd i : yeah , but professor d : i mean , you know , they they will find boundaries a little differently , though you know , all th all that sort of thing is actually slightly different . i 'd expect it to be a minor effect , phd i : but but but , what i 'm what i 'm saying is professor d : but phd i : so , we e w f w for a long time we had used boot alignments that had been trained with a with the same front - end but with acoustic models that were , like , fifteen percent worse than what we use now . professor d : mm - hmm . phd i : and with a dict different dictionary with a considerably different dictionary , which was much less detailed and much less well - suited . professor d : mm - hmm . yeah . phd i : and so , then we switched to new boot alignments , which which now had the benefit of all these improvements that we 've made over two years in the system . professor d : right . phd i : and , the result in the end was no different . professor d : right . phd i : so , what i 'm saying is , the exact nature of these boot alignments is probably not a big factor in the quality of the final models . professor d : yeah , maybe not . but it it i st still see it as i mean , there 's there 's a history to this , too , phd i : yeah . professor d : but i uh , i do n't wan na go into , phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : but but i i i th i think it could be the things that it the data is being viewed in a certain way , uh , that a beginning is here rather than there and so forth , phd i : yeah . right . professor d : because the actual signal - processing you 're doing is slightly different . phd i : right . professor d : but , it 's it 's that 's probably not it . phd i : yeah . anyway , i i i should really reserve , uh , any conclusions until we 've done it on the large training set , um , and until we 've seen the results with the with the vtl in training . professor d : yeah . at some point you also might wan na take the same thing and try it on , uh , some broadcast news data or something else that actually has has some noisy noisy components , so we can see if any conclusions we come to holds across different data . phd i : so . yeah . right . professor d : uh phd i : and , uh , with this , i have to leave . professor d : so , is there something quick about absinthe that you ? phd i : with this said . grad f : uh . just what we were talking about before , which is that i ported a blass library to absinthe , and then got got it working with fast - forward , and got a speedup roughly proportional to the number of processors times the clock cycle . so , that 's pretty good . phd i : oh ! cool . grad f : um , i 'm in the process of doing it for quicknet , but there 's something going wrong and it 's about half the speed that i was estimating it should be , and i 'm not sure why . phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : but i 'll keep working on it . but the what it means is that it 's likely that for net training and forward passes , we 'll absinthe will be a good machine . especially if we get a few more processors and upgrade the processors . phd i : a few more processors ? how many are you shooting for ? grad f : there 're five now . it can hold eight . phd i : oh , ok . professor d : yeah , we 'll just go buy them , i guess . grad f : and it 's also five - fifty megahertz and you can get a gigahertz . phd i : yeah . can you mix t uh , processors of different speed ? grad f : i do n't think so . i think we 'd have to do all professor d : probably just throw away the old ones , and thank you for the box , phd i : oh , ok . professor d : and i 'll just go buy their process . phd i : maybe we can stick them in another system . i dunno . grad f : we 'd have to get a almost certainly have to get a , uh , netfinity server . phd i : i see . grad f : they 're pretty pretty specialized . professor d : yeah . ok . is is liz coming back , do you know , or ? i dunno . yeah . oh , you do n't . ok . alright . alright . see you . um . alright . so uh , they 're having tea out there . so i guess the other thing that we were gon na talk about is is , uh , demo . and , um , so , these are the demos for the uh , july , uh , meeting and , um darpa mee grad f : july what ? early july ? late july ? professor d : oh , i think it 's july fifteenth . postdoc a : sixteen to eighteen , i think . professor d : is that it ? postdoc a : roughly . professor d : yeah , sixteenth , eighteenth . yeah . so , we talked about getting something together for that , but maybe , uh maybe we 'll just put that off for now , given that but i think maybe we should have a a sub - meeting , i think , uh , probably , uh , adam and and , uh , chuck and me should talk about should get together and talk about that sometime soon . grad f : over a cappuccino tomorrow ? professor d : yeah { comment } something like that . um , uh , you know , maybe maybe we 'll involve dan ellis at some some level as well . grad f : mm - hmm . professor d : um . ok . the the tea is is going , so , uh , i suggest we do , uh uh , a unison . grad f : a unison digits ? professor d : yeah . gets our grad f : which is gon na be a little hard for a couple people because we have different digits forms . phd e : oops . grad f : we have a i found a couple of old ones . professor d : well , that 'll be interesting . so , uh grad f : have you done digits before ? grad c : i have n't done it . grad f : ok . so , uh , the idea is just to read each line with a short pause between lines , grad c : alright . grad f : not between and , uh , since we 're in a hurry , we were just gon na read everyone all at once . so , if you sorta plug your ears and read so first read the transcript number , and then start reading the digits . grad c : sure . grad f : ok ? one , two , three . professor d : ok we 're done . </s>
<s> summarize discussion on what to include in the meeting corpus and how to structure it </s> grad f : oops . phd i : um , so , uh , we had a discussion don and liz and i had discussion last week about how to proceed with , uh , you know , with don 's work , and and and , uh , one of the obvious things that occur to us was that we 're since we now have thilo 's segmenter and it works , you know , amazingly well , um , we should actually basically re - evaluate the recognition , um , results using you know , without cheating on the segmentations . phd e : so phd i : and , that should be fairly phd e : and how do we find the transcripts for those so that ? yeah . the references for for those segments ? phd i : oh , ok . so , there 's actually phd e : it 's not that phd i : why do you ask ? grad f : i could phd i : no , actually , um , nist has , um m a fairly sophisticated scoring program that you can give a , um a time , grad f : hand ones . phd g : well phd i : uh you know , you basically just give two time - marked sequences of words , and it computes the um the , { comment } uh { comment } you know , the the th phd b : it does all the work for you . phd i : it does all the work for you . phd b : yeah . phd i : so , it we just and we use that actually in hub - five to do the scoring . um . so what we 've been using so far was sort of a simplified version of the scoring . and we can we can handle the the the type of problem we have here . phd e : so , basically you give some time constraints for for the references and for for the hypothesis , phd i : so , we ha yeah . right . phd e : and yeah , ok . phd g : yeah . phd i : right . phd g : maybe the start of your speech and the end of it , or stuff like that . phd i : right . it does time - constrained word - alignment . so . so that should be possible . i mean that should n't be a problem . uh , so that was the one thing , and the other was that , um what was the other problem ? oh ! that thilo wanted to use the recognizer alignments to train up his , um , speech detector . phd e : yeah . phd i : um , so that we could use , uh you know there would n't be so much hand labelling needed to , uh to generate training data for for the speech detector . phd e : yeah . i 'm just in progress of of doing that . so . phd i : and i think you 're in the process of doing that . phd e : yeah . phd i : so , you can { comment } you can phd b : it 'll give you a lot more data , too . wo n't it ? phd e : yeah . so , it 's basically s i think , eight meetings or something which which i 'm using , and , it 's before it was twenty minutes of one meeting . phd i : mm - hmm . phd e : so should { comment } be a little bit better . phd i : right . phd b : great . phd i : that wo n't be perfect the alignments are n't perfect , phd e : yeah . but phd i : but , um , it 's probably still better to have all this extra data , than phd g : yeah . phd e : yeah . yep . phd i : yeah . phd e : we 'll see that . phd i : yeah . phd g : actually , i had a question about that . if you find that you can lower the false alarms that you get where there 's no speech , that would be useful for us to know . so , um phd e : there were the false alarms . phd g : yeah . so , r right now you get f fal you know , false false , uh , speech regions when it 's just like , um , breath or something like that , phd e : ok . yeah . yep . phd g : and i 'd be interested to know the wha if you retrain um , phd e : yeah . phd g : do those actually go down or not ? because of phd e : yeah . i 'll can make an can , like , make a c comparison of of the old system to the to the new one , and then phd g : yeah , just to see if by doing nothing in the modeling of just having that training data wh what happens . phd e : yeah . yeah . yep . professor d : um another one that we had on adam 's agenda that definitely involved you was s something about smartkom ? grad f : right . so , rob porzel eh , porzel ? and the , uh porzel and the , uh , smartkom group are collecting some dialogues . phd i : porzel . porzel . grad f : basically they have one person sitting in here , looking at a picture , and a wizard sitting in another room somewhere . and , uh , they 're doing a travel task . and , uh , it involves starting i believe starting with a it 's it 's always the wizard , but it starts where the wizard is pretending to be a computer and it goes through a , uh , speech generation system . phd e : yeah . actually , it 's changed to a synthesis for for the first part now . grad f : synthesis system . phd e : yeah . grad f : um , and then , it goes to a real wizard and they 're evaluating that . and they wanted to use this equipment , and so the w question came up , is well , here 's some more data . should this be part of the corpus or not ? and my attitude was yes , because there might be people who are using this corpus for acoustics , as opposed to just for language . um , or also for dialogue of various sorts . um , so it 's not a meeting . right ? because it 's two people and they 're not face to face . professor d : wait a minute . so , i just wanted to understand it , cuz i i 'm uh , had n't quite followed this process . phd e : yeah . professor d : um . so , it 's wizard in the sen usual sense that the person who is asking the questions does n't know that it 's , uh , a machi not a machine ? phd i : right . grad f : at the beginning . phd i : actually actually , w w the the we do this i dunno who came up with it , but i think it 's a really clever idea . we simulate a computer breakdown halfway through the session , and so then after that , the person 's told that they 're now talking to a , uh to a human . professor d : yeah . phd e : it 's a human operator . professor d : yeah . phd e : yeah . grad f : but of course they do n't know that it 's the same person both times . phd i : so , we we collect we collect both human - computer and human - human data , essentially , in the same session . professor d : you might wan na try collecting it the other way around sometime , saying that th the computer is n't up yet and then so then you can separate it out whether it 's the beginning or end kind of effects . phd i : that 's an idea . professor d : but , yeah . phd i : yeah . postdoc a : that 's a good idea . grad f : `` i have to go now . you can talk to the computer . `` phd b : it 's a lot more believable , too , grad f : `` no ! `` phd b : if you tell them that they 're the computer part is running on a windows machine . and the whole breakdown thing kinda makes sense . phd i : o just just reboot it . grad f : abort abort , retry , fail ? phd g : so did they actually save the far - field data ? grad f : well , this was this was the question . phd g : cuz at first they were n't they were n't sa phd i : yeah . grad f : so so they were saying they were not going to , phd e : yeah . grad f : and i said , `` well that 's silly , if if we 're gon na try to do it for a corpus , there might be people who are interested in acoustics . `` phd g : yeah . or phd e : projector { comment } we were not saying we are not doing it . phd g : yeah . phd e : we wer we just wanted to do phd i : no , the the question is do we save one or two far - field channels or all of them ? phd g : right . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad f : i i see no reason not to do all of them . professor d : um grad f : that that if we have someone who is doing acoustic studies , uh , it 's nice to have the same for every recording . phd g : nnn . yeah . professor d : so , what is the purpose of this recording ? phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : this is to get acoustic and language model training data for smartkom . ok . phd i : it 's to be traini to b training data and development data for the smartkom system . phd e : the english system ? yeah . phd i : yeah . right . right . phd b : where does this ? phd g : maybe we can have him vary the microphones , too , professor d : well , phd g : or they 're different s speakers . grad f : right . so so so for their usage , they do n't need anything . professor d : so why not ? phd e : yeah . grad f : right ? phd e : but but i 'm not sure about the legal aspect of of that . is is there some contract with smartkom or something about the data ? phd i : yeah . phd e : what they or , is is that our data which we are collecting here , professor d : we 've never signed anything that said that we could n't use anything that we did . phd e : or ? ok . ok . phd i : we were n't supposed to collect any data . phd e : so . ok . professor d : yeah . phd e : so . yeah , th th that was the question . phd i : this was all phd e : if if ? yeah . phd i : yeah . professor d : no that 's not a problem . phd e : basically . professor d : i l look , it seems to me that if we 're doing it anyway and we 're doing it for these these purposes that we have , and we have these distant mikes , we definitely should re should save it all as long as we 've got disk space , phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : and disk is pretty cheap . so should we save it ? grad f : and then professor d : now th yeah . so we save it because it 's it it 's potentially useful . and now , what do we do with it is is a s separate question . grad f : right . professor d : i mean , anybody who 's training something up could choose to put it eh , to u include this or not . phd i : right . professor d : i i would not say it was part of the meetings corpus . it is n't . but it 's some other data we have , and if somebody doing experiment wants to train up including that then they can . right ? phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : so it 's it it i guess it the begs the question of what is the meeting corpus . so if , at uw they start recording two - person hallway conversations is that part of the meeting corpus ? professor d : i think it 's i i think i th think the idea of two or more people conversing with one another is key . grad f : well , this has two or more people conversing with each other . professor d : nnn , well phd e : yeah . postdoc a : well this grad f : they 're just not face to face . phd g : what if we just give it a a name like we give these meetings a name ? professor d : no , it does n't . right ? it has grad f : i mean , that was my intention . phd g : and then later on some people will consider it a meeting and some people wo n't , postdoc a : well this professor d : yeah . grad f : that was my intention . so so s so part of the reason that i wanted to bring this up is , do we wan na handle it as a special case or do we wan na fold it in , phd g : and just give it a title . professor d : i think it is a s grad f : we give everyone who 's involved as their own user id , give it session i ds , let all the tools that handle meeting recorder handle it , or do we wan na special case it ? and if we were gon na special case it , who 's gon na do that ? phd i : well , it it makes sense to handle it with the same infrastructure , since we do n't want to duplicate things unnecessarily . phd e : it it it postdoc a : i think phd i : but as far as distributing it , we should n't label it as part of this meeting corpus . professor d : yeah . phd i : we should let it be its own corp postdoc a : well it 's it well , because grad f : i do n't see why not . it 's just a different topic . postdoc a : i ha i have an extra point , which is the naturalness issue . because we have , like , meetings that have a reason . that 's one of the reasons that we were talking about this . and and those and this sounds like it 's more of an experimental setup . professor d : yeah . postdoc a : it 's got a different purpose . professor d : it 's scenario - based , it 's it 's human - computer interface it 's really pretty different . postdoc a : yeah . professor d : but i i i have no problem with somebody folding it in for some experiment they 're gon na do , but i do n't think i it it does n't match anything that we 've described about meetings . grad f : mm - hmm . professor d : whereas everything that we talked about them doing at at uw and so forth really does . they 're actually talking grad f : ok . so w so what does that mean for how we are gon na organize things ? phd e : yeah . professor d : you can you can again , as as i think andreas was saying , if you wan na use the same tools and the same conventions , there 's no problem with that . it 's just that it 's , you know , different directory , it 's called something different , it 's you know . it is different . you ca n't just fold it in as if it 's i mean , digits are different , too . right ? grad f : yeah , but those are folded in , phd i : it might also be potentially confusing . grad f : and it 's just you just mark the transcripts differently . so so one option is you fold it in , phd i : right . grad f : and just simply in the file you mark somewhere that this is this type of interaction , rather than another type of interaction . phd i : yeah , i th professor d : well , i don i would n't call reading digits `` meetings `` . right ? i mean , we we we were doing grad f : well , but but , i put it under the same directory tree . professor d : well grad f : you know , it 's in `` user doctor speech data mr `` . phd g : can we just have a directory called , like , `` other stuff `` ? grad f : other . phd g : and well or , i dunno . professor d : i mean , i do n't care what directory tree you have it under . phd g : and and just , um , store it there . professor d : right ? i mean that 's just a grad f : ok . my preference is to have a single procedure so that i do n't have to think too much about things . phd g : i mean professor d : yeah . grad f : and , just have a marking . professor d : o - you you can use whatever procedure you want that 's p convenient for you . grad f : if we do it any other way that means that we need a separate procedure , and someone has to do that . professor d : all i 'm saying is that there 's no way that we 're gon na tell people that reading digits is meetings . and similarly we 're not gon na tell them that someone talking to a computer to get travel information is meetings . grad f : right . professor d : those are n't meetings . but if it makes it easier for you to pu fold them in the same procedures and have them under the same directory tree , knock yourself out . phd b : there 's a couple other questions that i have too , professor d : you know ? phd b : and and one of them is , what about , uh , consent issues ? and the other one is , what about transcription ? are ? phd e : transcription is done in munich . phd b : ok . so we do n't have to worry about transcribing it ? professor d : alright . phd e : yeah . grad f : so , w we will hafta worry about format . phd i : that 's a that 's another argument to keep it separate , because it 's gon na follow the smartkom transcription conventions and not the icsi meeting transcription conventions . phd e : yeah . grad f : oh , ok . professor d : ah . good point . grad f : ok . well , i did n't realize that . that 's that 's a professor d : good point . but i 'm sure no one would have a problem with our folding it in for some acoustic modeling or or some things . um . do we h do we have , uh , um , american - born folk , uh , reading german german , uh , pla uh , place names and so forth ? is that ? phd e : yeah . phd i : exactly . professor d : yeah , great . </s>
<s> summarize discussion on issues with data storage </s> professor d : yeah , i be pretty good . phd i : we yeah . grad f : we 're about we 're about half halfway through our disk right now . phd b : yeah . phd i : that was one of our concerns . phd b : are we only half ? i thought we were more than that . grad f : we 're probably a little more than that because we 're using up some space that we should n't be on . so , once everything gets converted over to the disks we 're supposed to be using we 'll be probably , uh , seventy - five percent . phd b : well , when i was looking for space for thilo , i found one disk that had , uh , i think it was nine gigs and another one had seventeen . and everything else was sorta committed . uh grad f : were those backed - up or non - backed - up ? phd b : those were non - backed - up . phd e : non - back - up . grad f : right . so that 's different . phd b : s oh , you 're talking about backed - up . grad f : i 'm much more concerned about the backed - up . the non - backed - up , phd b : i have n't looked to see how much of that we have . grad f : yeah , i is cheap . i mean , if we need to we can buy a disk , hang it off a s uh , workstation . if it 's not backed - up the sysadmins do n't care too much . professor d : yeah . so , i mean , pretty much anytime we need a disk , we can get it at the rate that we 're phd i : you can i should n't be saying this , but , you can just you know , since the back - ups are every night , you can recycle the backed - up diskspace . grad f : yeah . but that 's that 's that 's risky . professor d : yeah . you really should n't be saying grad f : mmm . mmm . phd i : i did n't say that . grad f : yeah , that 's right . phd i : i did n't say that . grad f : beep that out . professor d : da - we had allowed dave to listen to these these , uh , recordings . phd i : right . professor d : um yeah , i me and there 's been this conversation going on about getting another file server , and and we can do that . phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : we 'll take the opportunity and get another big raft of of disk , i guess . grad f : yeah . it 's really the back - up issue rather than the file server issue . phd i : well , i think { comment } i think there 's an argument for having you know , you could use our old file server for for disks that have data that is very rarely accessed , and then have a fast new file server for data that is , um , heavily accessed . grad f : yeah . my understanding is , the issue is n't really the file server . phd i : yeah . grad f : we could always put more disks on . phd i : yeah . it 's the back it 's the back - up capaci grad f : it 's the back - up system . phd i : yeah . grad f : so which is near saturation , apparently . so . phd b : i think i think the file server could become an issue as we get a whole bunch more new compute machines . professor d : soon . phd b : and we 've got , you know , fifty machines trying to access data off of abbott at once . grad f : well , we 're alright for now because the network 's so slow . phd i : i mean , i think i think we 've raised this before and someone said this is not a reliable way to do it , but the what about putting the stuff on , like , c - cd - rom or dvd or something ? grad f : yeah . that was me . i was the one who said it was not reliable . the - they they wear out . phd i : ok . oh , ok . grad f : yeah . the the th phd i : but they wear out just from sitting on the shelf ? grad f : yep . absolutely . phd i : or from being read and read ? grad f : no . read and write do n't hurt them too much unless you scratch them . phd i : oh , ok . grad f : but the r the write once , and the read - writes , do n't last . so you do n't wa you do n't wan na put ir un reproduceable data on them . phd i : uh - huh . phd b : wear out after what amount of time ? grad f : year or two . postdoc a : would it be ? professor d : year or two ? phd i : but if that then you would think you 'd hear much more clamoring about data loss phd e : yeah . phd i : and professor d : i mean , yeah , all the l grad f : i i do n't know many people who do it on cd . i mean , they 're the most fo professor d : ldc - all the ldc distributions are on cd - rom . phd g : yeah . grad f : they 're on cd , but they 're not tha that 's not the only source . phd g : like grad f : they have them on disk . and they burn new ones every once in a while . but if you go if you go k phd i : but , you know , we have phd g : but we have like thirty you know , from ten years ago ? professor d : we have all sorts of cd - roms from a long time ago . phd e : yeah . phd g : yeah ! grad f : well , th th ok . phd g : ten years ago . phd i : right . phd g : ninety - one , and they 're still all fine . professor d : yeah . grad h : were they burned or were they pressed ? phd g : uh , both . i 've burned them and they 're still ok . grad h : yeah . grad f : the the pressed ones last for phd g : i mean , usually they 're grad f : well , not forever , they 've been finding even those degrade . professor d : oh , i see . grad f : but , uh , the burned ones i mean , when i say two or three years what i 'm saying is that i have had disks which are gone in a year . phd g : that 's what i grad f : on the average , it 'll probably be three or four years . but , uh i i you do n't want to per p have your only copy on a media that fails . and they do . um , if you have them professionally pressed , y you know , they 're good for decades . phd i : so how about ? so so how about putting them on that plus , like on a on on dat or some other medium that is n't risky ? grad f : i think th um , we can already put them on tape . and the tape is hi is very reliable . phd i : ok . mm - hmm . grad f : so the the only issue is then if we need access to them . so that 's fine f if we do n't need access to them . phd i : right . well , if if if you if they last say , they actually last , like , five years , huh , in in the typical case , and and occasionally you might need to recreate one , and then you get your tape out , but otherwise you do n't . ca n't you just you just put them on ? grad h : so you just archive it on the tape , and then put it on cd as well ? phd i : yeah . right . grad f : oh . so you 're just saying put them on c ds for normal access . grad h : yeah . phd i : right . phd b : what you grad f : yeah . i mean , you can do that but that 's pretty annoying , because the c ds are so slow . phd g : see yeah . grad h : yeah . phd b : what 'd be nice is a system that re - burned the c ds every year . phd g : h everytime it was a `` gon na `` `` gon na die `` . professor d : well grad f : well , i mean , the c ds are are an op phd e : yeah . phd i : it 's like like dynamic ra dram . phd e : just before . phd b : yeah . phd g : just before they be before it goes bad , it burns them in . grad f : the the cd is an alternative to tape . grad h : yeah . grad f : icsi already has a perfectly good tape system and it 's more reliable . professor d : you know i would think grad f : so for archiving , we 'll just use tape . phd i : one one thing i do n't understand is , if you have the data if if you if the meeting data is put on disk exactly once , then it 's backed - up once and the back - up system should never have to bother with it , uh , more than once . grad f : well , regardless well , first of all there was , um , a problem with the archive in that i was every once in a while doing a chmod on all the directories an or recursive chmod and chown , because they were n't getting set correctly every once in a while , phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : and i was just , doing a minus r star , not realizing that that caused it to be re - backed - up . phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : but normally you 're correct . but even without that , the back - up system is becoming saturated . phd i : but but this back - up system is smart enough to figure out that something has n't changed and does n't need to be backed - up again . professor d : the b i think th the at least the once tha that you put it on , it would it would { comment } kill that . grad f : sure , but we still have enough changed that the nightly back - ups are starting to take too long . phd i : ok . so so then , if so so then , let 's grad f : it has nothing to do with the meeting . it 's just the general icsi back - up system is becoming saturated . phd i : right . ok . right . so , what if we buy , uh uh , what what do they call these , um high density ? grad f : well , why do n't you have this have a this conversation with dave johnson tha rather than with me ? phd i : no , no . because this is maybe something that we can do without involving dave , and and , putting more burden on him . how about we buy , uh uh uh , one of these high density tape drives ? and we put the data actually on non - backed - up disks . and we do our own back - up once and for all all , and then and we do n't have to bother this @ @ up ? grad f : actually , you know , we could do that just with the tape with the current tape . phd i : i dunno what the these tapes uh , at some point these i dunno . what kind of tape drive is it ? grad f : i dunno but it 's an automatic robot so it 's very convenient . phd i : is it is ? professor d : wh the o the one that we have ? grad f : you just run a program to restore them . phd i : right . professor d : the i mean grad f : yeah . phd i : but it might interfere with their back - up schedule , phd g : but professor d : no , we have s we do n't we have our own ? something wi th that does n't that is n't used by the back - up gang ? do n't we have something downstairs ? postdoc a : well they phd b : what kinda tape drive ? professor d : just in ? yeah . grad f : well but no , but andreas 's point is a good one . and we do n't have to do anything ourselves to do that . they 're already right now on tape . phd i : right . grad f : right . so your your point is , and i think it 's a good one , that we could just get more disk and put it there . phd i : mmm . on an xh uh , x x whatever partition . grad f : yeah . that 's not a bad idea . phd i : yeah . professor d : yeah , that 's basically what i was gon na say , is that a disk is is so cheap it 's es essentially , you know , close to free . and the only thing that costs is the back - up issue , eh , to first order . grad f : so once it 's on tape phd i : right . right . professor d : and we can take care of that by putting it on non - back up drives and just backing it up once onto this tape . phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : i think that 's a good idea . phd i : right . professor d : oh . yeah . good . it 's good . phd g : so , who 's gon na do these back - ups ? the people that collect it ? grad f : uh well , i 'll talk to dave , and and see what th how what the best way of doing that is . phd b : it 's probably gon na n grad f : there 's a little utility that will manually burn a tape for you , and that 's probably the right way to do it . phd b : yeah , and we should probably make that part of the procedure for recording the meetings . phd g : well , s yeah . that 's what i 'm wondering , if grad f : well we 're g we 're gon na automate that . my intention is to do a script that 'll do everything . phd g : i mean , you do n't have to physically put a tape in the drive ? grad f : no . it 's all tape robot , phd g : or s ? s ? { comment } oh , ok . grad f : so you just sit down at your computer and you type a command . phd g : so it 's just oh , ok . phd i : yeah , but then you 're effectively using the resources of the back - up system . or is that a different tape robot ? grad f : yeah . phd g : but not at the same time . grad f : but y but you would be anyway . phd b : no , no , no . grad f : right ? phd b : he 's saying get a whole different drive . grad f : because phd i : no , no . see grad f : but there 's no reason to do that . phd i : yeah , just give a dedi grad f : it we already have it there and it it 's phd i : well , i 'm saying is @ @ i if you go to dave , and and and ask him `` can i use your tape robot ? `` , he will say , `` well that 's gon na screw up our back - up operation . `` grad f : no , we wo n't . he 'll say `` if if that means that it 's not gon na be backed - up standardly , great . `` professor d : he - i dave has has promoted this in the past . so i do n't think he 's actually against it . grad f : yeah . it 's it 's definitely no problem . phd i : oh , ok . alright . professor d : yeah . phd i : alright . good . phd g : what about if the times overlap with the normal back - up time ? grad f : um , it 's it 's just it 's just a utility which queues up . it just queues it up and and when it 's available , it will copy it . professor d : yeah . grad f : and then you can tell it to then remove it from the disk or you can , you know , do it a a few days later or whatever you wan na do , after you confirm that it 's really backed - up . nw ? postdoc a : you saying nw archive ? grad f : nw archive . postdoc a : yep { comment } and if you did that during the day it would never make it to the nightly back - ups . grad f : that 's what it is . right . postdoc a : and then there would n't be this extra load . phd i : well , it if he you have to put the data on a on a non - backed - up disk to begin with . postdoc a : well , but you can have it nw archive to you can have , uh , a non - backed - up disk nw archived , grad f : right . phd i : so that so that otherwise you do n't you postdoc a : and it 'll never show up on the nightly back - ups . grad f : right . and then it never phd i : right . right . grad f : right . which i 'm sure would make ever the sysadmins very happy . phd i : right . postdoc a : yeah . grad f : so , i think that 's a good idea . that 's what we should do . so , that means we 'll probably wan na convert all all those files filesystems to non - backed - up media . phd b : that sounds good . </s>
<s> what did the participants think about what constitutes a meeting ? </s> grad f : so it 's it it i guess it the begs the question of what is the meeting corpus . so if , at uw they start recording two - person hallway conversations is that part of the meeting corpus ? professor d : i think it 's i i think i th think the idea of two or more people conversing with one another is key . grad f : well , this has two or more people conversing with each other . professor d : nnn , well phd e : yeah . postdoc a : well this grad f : they 're just not face to face . phd g : what if we just give it a a name like we give these meetings a name ? professor d : no , it does n't . right ? it has grad f : i mean , that was my intention . phd g : and then later on some people will consider it a meeting and some people wo n't , postdoc a : well this professor d : yeah . grad f : that was my intention . so so s so part of the reason that i wanted to bring this up is , do we wan na handle it as a special case or do we wan na fold it in , phd g : and just give it a title . professor d : i think it is a s grad f : we give everyone who 's involved as their own user id , give it session i ds , let all the tools that handle meeting recorder handle it , or do we wan na special case it ? and if we were gon na special case it , who 's gon na do that ? phd i : well , it it makes sense to handle it with the same infrastructure , since we do n't want to duplicate things unnecessarily . phd e : it it it postdoc a : i think phd i : but as far as distributing it , we should n't label it as part of this meeting corpus . professor d : yeah . phd i : we should let it be its own corp postdoc a : well it 's it well , because grad f : i do n't see why not . it 's just a different topic . postdoc a : i ha i have an extra point , which is the naturalness issue . because we have , like , meetings that have a reason . that 's one of the reasons that we were talking about this . and and those and this sounds like it 's more of an experimental setup . professor d : yeah . postdoc a : it 's got a different purpose . professor d : it 's scenario - based , it 's it 's human - computer interface it 's really pretty different . postdoc a : yeah . professor d : but i i i have no problem with somebody folding it in for some experiment they 're gon na do , but i do n't think i it it does n't match anything that we 've described about meetings . grad f : mm - hmm . professor d : whereas everything that we talked about them doing at at uw and so forth really does . they 're actually talking grad f : ok . so w so what does that mean for how we are gon na organize things ? phd e : yeah . professor d : you can you can again , as as i think andreas was saying , if you wan na use the same tools and the same conventions , there 's no problem with that . it 's just that it 's , you know , different directory , it 's called something different , it 's you know . it is different . you ca n't just fold it in as if it 's i mean , digits are different , too . right ? grad f : yeah , but those are folded in , phd i : it might also be potentially confusing . grad f : and it 's just you just mark the transcripts differently . so so one option is you fold it in , phd i : right . grad f : and just simply in the file you mark somewhere that this is this type of interaction , rather than another type of interaction . phd i : yeah , i th professor d : well , i don i would n't call reading digits `` meetings `` . right ? i mean , we we we were doing grad f : well , but but , i put it under the same directory tree . professor d : well grad f : you know , it 's in `` user doctor speech data mr `` . phd g : can we just have a directory called , like , `` other stuff `` ? grad f : other . phd g : and well or , i dunno . professor d : i mean , i do n't care what directory tree you have it under . phd g : and and just , um , store it there . professor d : right ? i mean that 's just a grad f : ok . my preference is to have a single procedure so that i do n't have to think too much about things . phd g : i mean professor d : yeah . grad f : and , just have a marking . professor d : o - you you can use whatever procedure you want that 's p convenient for you . grad f : if we do it any other way that means that we need a separate procedure , and someone has to do that . professor d : all i 'm saying is that there 's no way that we 're gon na tell people that reading digits is meetings . and similarly we 're not gon na tell them that someone talking to a computer to get travel information is meetings . grad f : right . professor d : those are n't meetings . but if it makes it easier for you to pu fold them in the same procedures and have them under the same directory tree , knock yourself out . </s>
<s> what did phd i think about segmentation ? </s> phd i : and and and , uh , one of the obvious things that occur to us was that we 're since we now have thilo 's segmenter and it works , you know , amazingly well , um , we should actually basically re - evaluate the recognition , um , results using you know , without cheating on the segmentations . phd e : so phd i : and , that should be fairly phd e : and how do we find the transcripts for those so that ? yeah . the references for for those segments ? phd i : oh , ok . so , there 's actually phd e : it 's not that phd i : why do you ask ? grad f : i could phd i : no , actually , um , nist has , um m a fairly sophisticated scoring program that you can give a , um a time , grad f : hand ones . phd g : well phd i : uh you know , you basically just give two time - marked sequences of words , and it computes the um the , { comment } uh { comment } you know , the the th phd b : it does all the work for you . phd i : it does all the work for you . phd b : yeah . phd i : so , it we just and we use that actually in hub - five to do the scoring . um . so what we 've been using so far was sort of a simplified version of the scoring . and we can we can handle the the the type of problem we have here . phd e : so , basically you give some time constraints for for the references and for for the hypothesis , phd i : so , we ha yeah . right . phd e : and yeah , ok . phd g : yeah . phd i : right . phd g : maybe the start of your speech and the end of it , or stuff like that . phd i : right . it does time - constrained word - alignment . so . so that should be possible . i mean that should n't be a problem . uh , so that was the one thing , and the other was that , um what was the other problem ? oh ! that thilo wanted to use the recognizer alignments to train up his , um , speech detector . phd e : yeah . phd i : um , so that we could use , uh you know there would n't be so much hand labelling needed to , uh to generate training data for for the speech detector . phd e : yeah . i 'm just in progress of of doing that . so . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about storing data ? </s> grad f : yeah , i is cheap . i mean , if we need to we can buy a disk , hang it off a s uh , workstation . if it 's not backed - up the sysadmins do n't care too much . professor d : yeah . so , i mean , pretty much anytime we need a disk , we can get it at the rate that we 're phd i : you can i should n't be saying this , but , you can just you know , since the back - ups are every night , you can recycle the backed - up diskspace . grad f : yeah . but that 's that 's that 's risky . professor d : yeah . you really should n't be saying grad f : mmm . mmm . phd i : i did n't say that . grad f : yeah , that 's right . phd i : i did n't say that . grad f : beep that out . professor d : da - we had allowed dave to listen to these these , uh , recordings . phd i : right . professor d : um yeah , i me and there 's been this conversation going on about getting another file server , and and we can do that . phd i : mm - hmm . professor d : we 'll take the opportunity and get another big raft of of disk , i guess . grad f : yeah . it 's really the back - up issue rather than the file server issue . phd i : well , i think { comment } i think there 's an argument for having you know , you could use our old file server for for disks that have data that is very rarely accessed , and then have a fast new file server for data that is , um , heavily accessed . grad f : yeah . my understanding is , the issue is n't really the file server . phd i : yeah . grad f : we could always put more disks on . phd i : yeah . it 's the back it 's the back - up capaci grad f : it 's the back - up system . phd i : yeah . grad f : so which is near saturation , apparently . so . phd b : i think i think the file server could become an issue as we get a whole bunch more new compute machines . professor d : soon . phd b : and we 've got , you know , fifty machines trying to access data off of abbott at once . grad f : well , we 're alright for now because the network 's so slow . phd i : i mean , i think i think we 've raised this before and someone said this is not a reliable way to do it , but the what about putting the stuff on , like , c - cd - rom or dvd or something ? grad f : yeah . that was me . i was the one who said it was not reliable . the - they they wear out . phd i : ok . oh , ok . grad f : yeah . the the th phd i : but they wear out just from sitting on the shelf ? grad f : yep . absolutely . phd i : or from being read and read ? grad f : no . read and write do n't hurt them too much unless you scratch them . phd i : oh , ok . grad f : but the r the write once , and the read - writes , do n't last . so you do n't wa you do n't wan na put ir un reproduceable data on them . phd i : uh - huh . phd b : wear out after what amount of time ? grad f : year or two . postdoc a : would it be ? professor d : year or two ? phd i : but if that then you would think you 'd hear much more clamoring about data loss professor d : and we can take care of that by putting it on non - back up drives and just backing it up once onto this tape . phd i : mm - hmm . grad f : i think that 's a good idea . phd i : right . professor d : oh . yeah . good . it 's good . phd g : so , who 's gon na do these back - ups ? the people that collect it ? grad f : uh well , i 'll talk to dave , and and see what th how what the best way of doing that is . phd b : it 's probably gon na n grad f : there 's a little utility that will manually burn a tape for you , and that 's probably the right way to do it . phd b : yeah , and we should probably make that part of the procedure for recording the meetings . phd g : well , s yeah . that 's what i 'm wondering , if grad f : well we 're g we 're gon na automate that . my intention is to do a script that 'll do everything . phd g : i mean , you do n't have to physically put a tape in the drive ? grad f : no . it 's all tape robot , phd g : or s ? s ? { comment } oh , ok . grad f : so you just sit down at your computer and you type a command . phd g : so it 's just oh , ok . phd i : yeah , but then you 're effectively using the resources of the back - up system . or is that a different tape robot ? grad f : yeah . phd g : but not at the same time . grad f : but y but you would be anyway . phd b : no , no , no . grad f : right ? phd b : he 's saying get a whole different drive . grad f : because phd i : no , no . see grad f : but there 's no reason to do that . phd i : yeah , just give a dedi grad f : it we already have it there and it it 's phd i : well , i 'm saying is @ @ i if you go to dave , and and and ask him `` can i use your tape robot ? `` , he will say , `` well that 's gon na screw up our back - up operation . `` grad f : no , we wo n't . he 'll say `` if if that means that it 's not gon na be backed - up standardly , great . `` professor d : he - i dave has has promoted this in the past . so i do n't think he 's actually against it . grad f : yeah . it 's it 's definitely no problem . phd i : oh , ok . alright . professor d : yeah . phd i : alright . good . phd g : what about if the times overlap with the normal back - up time ? grad f : um , it 's it 's just it 's just a utility which queues up . it just queues it up and and when it 's available , it will copy it . professor d : yeah . grad f : and then you can tell it to then remove it from the disk or you can , you know , do it a a few days later or whatever you wan na do , after you confirm that it 's really backed - up . nw ? postdoc a : you saying nw archive ? grad f : nw archive . postdoc a : yep { comment } and if you did that during the day it would never make it to the nightly back - ups . grad f : that 's what it is . right . </s>
<s> what did the participants think about using cd 's for backup ? </s> phd i : i mean , i think i think we 've raised this before and someone said this is not a reliable way to do it , but the what about putting the stuff on , like , c - cd - rom or dvd or something ? grad f : yeah . that was me . i was the one who said it was not reliable . the - they they wear out . phd i : ok . oh , ok . grad f : yeah . the the th phd i : but they wear out just from sitting on the shelf ? grad f : yep . absolutely . phd i : or from being read and read ? grad f : no . read and write do n't hurt them too much unless you scratch them . phd i : oh , ok . grad f : but the r the write once , and the read - writes , do n't last . so you do n't wa you do n't wan na put ir un reproduceable data on them . phd i : uh - huh . phd b : wear out after what amount of time ? grad f : year or two . postdoc a : would it be ? professor d : year or two ? phd i : but if that then you would think you 'd hear much more clamoring about data loss phd e : yeah . phd i : and professor d : i mean , yeah , all the l grad f : i i do n't know many people who do it on cd . i mean , they 're the most fo professor d : ldc - all the ldc distributions are on cd - rom . phd g : yeah . grad f : they 're on cd , but they 're not tha that 's not the only source . phd g : like grad f : they have them on disk . and they burn new ones every once in a while . but if you go if you go k phd i : but , you know , we have phd g : but we have like thirty you know , from ten years ago ? professor d : we have all sorts of cd - roms from a long time ago . phd e : yeah . phd g : yeah ! grad f : well , th th ok . phd g : ten years ago . phd i : right . phd g : ninety - one , and they 're still all fine . professor d : yeah . grad h : were they burned or were they pressed ? phd g : uh , both . i 've burned them and they 're still ok . grad h : yeah . grad f : the the pressed ones last for phd g : i mean , usually they 're grad f : well , not forever , they 've been finding even those degrade . professor d : oh , i see . grad f : but , uh , the burned ones i mean , when i say two or three years what i 'm saying is that i have had disks which are gone in a year . phd g : that 's what i grad f : on the average , it 'll probably be three or four years . but , uh i i you do n't want to per p have your only copy on a media that fails . and they do . um , if you have them professionally pressed , y you know , they 're good for decades . phd i : so how about ? so so how about putting them on that plus , like on a on on dat or some other medium that is n't risky ? grad f : i think th um , we can already put them on tape . and the tape is hi is very reliable . phd i : ok . mm - hmm . grad f : so the the only issue is then if we need access to them . so that 's fine f if we do n't need access to them . phd i : right . well , if if if you if they last say , they actually last , like , five years , huh , in in the typical case , and and occasionally you might need to recreate one , and then you get your tape out , but otherwise you do n't . ca n't you just you just put them on ? grad h : so you just archive it on the tape , and then put it on cd as well ? phd i : yeah . right . grad f : oh . so you 're just saying put them on c ds for normal access . grad h : yeah . phd i : right . phd b : what you grad f : yeah . i mean , you can do that but that 's pretty annoying , because the c ds are so slow . phd g : see yeah . grad h : yeah . phd b : what 'd be nice is a system that re - burned the c ds every year . phd g : h everytime it was a `` gon na `` `` gon na die `` . professor d : well </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : that should hopefully do the trick , um . 'kay . sorry about the small delay . falling a little bit behind schedule . and that 's uh fifteen twenty five . okay . so just to try and roughly go over what we agreed in the last one , um we 're gon na go for something uh uh how was it ? uh the new black , i believe . marketing : . project manager : um something that looks good 'cause that seems to be in preference to actual functionality in the end , though we should never avoid functionality , of course . uh many of our components are gon na be standard , off the shelf , but it seemed like we were gon na require at least an advanced chip and we were still very much for the idea of using an lcd display . um other things were we were hoping to use rubber , most likely gon na be double curved , etcetera . okay . so um due to your hard work , we might as well let the uh two designers go first , and uh show us the prototype . user interface : okay , it 's a project manager : quite how the best way to do this is , i 'm not sure , industrial designer : user interface : i think if we both step up project manager : but user interface : and uh outline our ideas . okay . now do uh doing the prototype gave us a bit more insight into the ergonomics of the design . um for one thing , it turned out that the only point at which it needs to be articulated for handedness is um is h i is down here for the uh l_e_d_ . as it turned out , the whole thing transfers from the right to left hand fairly well from the point of view of operating the uh function buttons and joystick , though it might be an idea to be able to a adjust the positions for the base of the joystick just a little bit for uh project manager : okay . user interface : ju just a thought . you could simply have a slightly ovoid shaped joystick that could then just be turn uh twisted round , so that the uh sticky uh so that the bit that sticks out a bit more is on one side or the other . but as you as you see with the uh with holding it in the left hand , the l_ uh the lcd is nowhere useful , so that would need to be articulated uh if we 're going to retain ergonomic design . um now i i got your note about uh keeping the cost down . project manager : i 'm afraid yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : we 'll go into that a bit more , user interface : this design could be done with um with uh plastic casing . project manager : but please go on . user interface : though i would recommend around the grip part here in the middle , having maybe just a rubber grip over that which would allow for a slightly more sort of bio-morphic form , and a bit more ergonomic as well . as for the um as for the single curve , um well this edge and this edge , like i say it would be nice to have some curvature to it , but it 's not absolutely necessary . really the curve that 's most needed is the underside so that the jo so that the joystick rests over the the edge of the hand like this . um and you have the uh transmitter here and a wee speaker for the uh for the uh for the uh fi uh for the remote control finder . so . project manager : user interface : any further comments ? industrial designer : um obviously it 's gon na be bulkier than how it looks , because it 's gon na be flat on one side , so the lcd will be s sticking down like this , wo n't it ? user interface : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : 'cause it you ca n't get it curved . user interface : yeah , i mean the industrial designer : uh because of costs . user interface : uh yeah . industrial designer : and it 's plastic as well , so it wo n't be as comfortable on the hand . user interface : yeah . i mean with the with the rubber design it could i you know it could pretty much mould very much to the to the user 's hand . one nice wee feature if we could if we could still do the rubber , i though of was to have the uh rubber extend beyond the end of the uh of the rigid substructure . so it has a wee sort of tail that you just drape over your wrist so it stays in position nicely . project manager : user interface : mm . lovely . um . industrial designer : yeah , . project manager : okay , yeah . great . um . marketing : right . yeah i 've got a if you load up my evaluation document . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : okay . project manager : excellent work . marketing : uh evaluation . basic point uh have a list of criteria that we need to rate the prototype by . um then we will it 's a seven s um seven seven step kinda evaluation process . so um not seven steps , seven scale . so after we 've finished doing all the ratings for each criteria , we average that and that will give us some type of uh confidence in our prototype . and uh the criteria based on real reactions ' kinda goals and policies , marketing strategies , and also those i put together from the user requirements phase . 'kay . um if you flip the so , those are the criteria . and uh perhaps i could have put 'em a bit better , but you notice a few things that we 've totally abandoned , which means that uh the product will score very badly on some of those points . project manager : marketing : put it mildly . so we have um true ? one , t seven , eight , oh . fourth . okay , so we have to go through each point . if we imagine it 's actually straight , and just give it a a score . so um how well would you say the prototype is uh how well have we realised the dream of being able to stop remotes from from being lost , or to be able to find them once they are lost . i mean , uh is the homing thing still the locator , is that still user interface : yeah , that 's still part of the design . marketing : sure . and adam , we can keep that in ? project manager : yeah , i believe so . so i mean i do n't think anybody could actually stop a remote being lost , marketing : okay . project manager : 'cause that would mean doing something about the human element , marketing : sure . project manager : but i 'd like to think that we 've done something about finding the damn thing once we have . user interface : mm . mm . and making it a bright colour helps marketing : sure . user interface : with the personally i would have gone for purple . project manager : marketing : mm . bright colour . so we still have that noise thing , yeah ? user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : os on a scale of one to seven , how would you guys rate it for finding finding it once it 's lost ? user interface : i 'd say number one . marketing : number one ? industrial designer : one . yeah . marketing : okay . number number one for the first criteria . user interface : i think w if it was just the sounder then th i mean something i 've found with uh w w with say tr trying to find uh a cordless phone or a m mobile , you can hear it , but you ca n't quite pin it dow pin down where it is . marketing : yeah you can tell what room the mobile is industrial designer : what about what if the the volume on the tv 's turned up massively and uh you just wan na turn down the volume ca n't find remote . suppose you have to go to the tv and do it manually . mm . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm . um marketing : yeah . industrial designer : like y you would n't hear the speaker . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : just before we go through all of the steps here , um well what we 'll do is marketing : you wan na say something ? project manager : um if we can look at the criteria you 're gon na evaluate , and then we 'll come back to the product evaluation if that 's alright . marketing : that 's fine . project manager : yeah , is that marketing : oh that 's that 's fine . project manager : um so is there anything here that you that you wanted to cover as in the criteria that you 've covered ? and then we 'll come back pretty much promptly to this . marketing : what do you mean cr is there anything i wan na project manager : i is there any of these criteria that need any explaining ? or is there anything that yous thought tha really would stand out compared to the others ? marketing : um , a few . something i neglected from my initial research is that real reactions has a a goal strategy that all of the products be inspired by material fashion , and clothing fashion . that is why fruit and veg being popular in the home and in clothing was important and they want all their products to be somehow inspired by current trends in fashion . so they say we put the fashion in electronics , well they really mean it they they 're very big on fashion , project manager : okay . marketing : so . that 's this bit right here . and uh this bit is this one easy to use for visitors or for anybody ? i guess it 's just the same as saying easy to use interface , so it 's kinda condensed into one . and we can come back to it , you said . project manager : okay . no and which we will do very very shortly . um . okay . slight problem we had was that we have an amazing four euros over budget for what we were hoping to do . um most of it stems from the use of the lcd which i think in the end accounted for about half of our expenditure because of course we required a chip as well . um the only way to get this down was either to ditch the a lcd , at which point we 've removed a large part of how we were gon na interface , require more buttons , etcetera . or what we did was that we um we as in i as i was quickly going over it was altering the actual structure . um changing it to plastic and a solid unit with a single curve design would allow us to come back into the um proposed costs and we 're just scraping it in , we 've got point two of a euro left over there . so we 're just managing it really . even then as well , um there was no criteria technically defined for a joystick so i 've used what i think 's appropriate . with any luck that wo n't mean that we 've incurred more cost than we can actually afford to . it blows a lot of our really good ideas kind of slightly to one side , for example the possibility of having a u_s_b_ connection is definitely not viable now . um . marketing : different languages ? project manager : that should still be viable . we 've got an advanced chip , we 've got the use of the lcd . so being able to communicate in multiple languages is still very much a possibility . marketing : yeah . project manager : um but what 's something we need to decide on is how we 're gon na go from here . we do need to try and come up with an idea which could be continued with other people if need be . um . we can i can bring the excel up sheet up and uh show you if you wish um . i really think as m much as it pains me is that we might have to go with plastic and some kind of solid design , possibly meaning that the lcd would n't be in this perfect place . it might be s stuck like slightly between what would be good for left handed and what would be good for a right handed person . user interface : mm-hmm i suppose o one thing that could be done is h is have it um circular and have it s so that the uh the pink actually goes a bit over the pinkie finger . mm . project manager : okay . user interface : so that uh th project manager : it very much is about making concessions , unfortunately . um . marketing : do you have any data on how much um different prints cost ? i mean can you get the entire thing printed with a design um ? project manager : um b b b da is you mean on the plastic , or ? marketing : . project manager : let 's have a look . you now have as much information as i do . um . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : so as you can see here , for example , the battery really not very little choice in that one . we 've gone for one of the cheaper options as well . unfortunately we require the advanced chip if we 're gon na do what we 're needing to . i 've said single curved . we really do need it to be that way for the ergonomics of it . um plastic for some reason incurs no cost , which i 've had to very much make advantage of , despite the fact that rubber 's only got a value of two euros per unit . problem comes here as you can see in the interface . um if i 've read this thing correctly , then we can save point five of a euro here in that it 's not per push button . that might make sense , because then a numeric keypad would come in at um what , four point five euros , which is an awful lot , so that could well be wrong . even if we save point five there , it would just mean that we 're most likely placing it in actually just gaining a colour for the unit , which has had to be put to one side . as you can see , the use of an l_c_ display um advanced chip and what would determine the scroll wheel here as well because it 's an integrated scroll scroll wheel push button that was n't quite what i think they had in mind with a joystick . marketing : why would why would that be more expensive than an individual push button and scroll wheel together ? that 's quite significantly expensive . project manager : i that 's something you 'll have to take up with the bean counters . um marketing : . industrial designer : user interface : mm . yeah . project manager : as you can see i mean that 's taken up well over half of the price . marketing : yeah . project manager : so um i 'm very much open to suggestions of where we go , but because we need to shed what was four euros off of the um the price of for what we really desired , this one comes in under price as you can see , but this was the one that sacrificed the material for the case and for the actual case design . marketing : we do n't even have uh speakers here . the like uh we uh what about speakers and transmitters and stuff like that ? have we factored that in ? project manager : uh no , we have n't , not marketing : transmitter , receiver , speakers . plus the extra device itself that 's gon na be on a tv . industrial designer : marketing : is that gon na be a button , or project manager : that 'll it literally would just be a button . marketing : yeah . project manager : we might have to industrial designer : that 's too expensive is n't it ? project manager : it looks like almost nothing mm . oh good call , i missed that . marketing : i i mean it 's not on here , but um . project manager : that 's a very valid point . marketing : did they s do we have to use an advanced chip for the lcd ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . well that 's yeah . project manager : so if we 're gon na go with the l_c_ display , then that 's marketing : what 's a hand dyna dynamo ? you have to wind it up ? project manager : i believe so , yeah . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : that would probably not be in keeping with the um the fashion statement and such , marketing : technology . yeah . industrial designer : fashion . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so basically the only new thing is the lcd on the remote now . project manager : being manipulated by the joystick , yeah . industrial designer : oh , and joystick , yeah . project manager : which i 'm defining as scroll wheel . um . marketing : and we could n't replace the joystick , right ? because we would need four extra buttons to replace it , up down left and right , and that would be more expensive than a but is a scroll wheel not just back and forward ? project manager : yeah it 's just because there was no actual definition for what a joystick might be , that that 's what i 've labelled it for the purposes of this evaluation . industrial designer : so the lcd basically is the big selling point of project manager : if we remove the l_c_ display , we could save ourselves industrial designer : the remote . project manager : a fair amount . which you could industrial designer : but that 's what makes it uh original though , user interface : mm . i think if we remove the the l_c_ display then there was absolutely no point to any of these meetings marketing : yeah . industrial designer : is n't it ? user interface : and we just we could just put our branding on any other remote control . marketing : yeah . yeah . um . uh k project manager : it 's a shame . we should possibly have if we could 've increased the price we could 've manufactured that and we could 've got something far closer to what we were hoping to . marketing : does this does this bear in mind that i mean it 's a bit ridiculous that they 're gon na charge us what is it , like this much money for three million if we 're gon na buy three million components , project manager : again , you 'll have to argue with the accountants on that one . marketing : you know . project manager : um but for the purposes of this meeting , i 'm we 're gon na have to stick with these figures . marketing : mm . 'kay . project manager : so , i would say that it would seem like the general opinion is we 're gon na keep the l_c_ display 'cause it 's about what really separates us , despite the cost it 's gon na incur . um marketing : i think so . project manager : are people maybe not happy with , but are willing to go ahead with this in going for a plastic solid case , to keep the lcd ? user interface : mm-hmm . um yeah i mean one thing , i mean ho uh how much extra would it be to to keep i mean keep the um the articulation ? project manager : it 's hard to tell . um i would say that you 're at least gon na take double curved , user interface : this is what i 'm wondering . project manager : and even then i 'm not quite sure if that 's incorporating the idea of articulation . marketing : yeah . user interface : no , i think i i it d that it need n't require it to be double curved . industrial designer : it can be s yeah , it can still be single curved , user interface : it 's uh it 's just it 's just it 's just that the case would come in t would be made in two parts and then joined together with an articulation . industrial designer : but project manager : single curved with articulation ? industrial designer : you just . marketing : could we could we not get rid of the curvy the curvous the curvaceousness and focus on the menu being the best interface ? 'cause like we do we have re restrictions on software ? industrial designer : that 's what we need for the joystick i think though . user interface : mm . yeah , i mean marketing : oh but there has to be user interface : and i mean the uh i mean if you look uh if you look closer at the uh at the prototype here , the lines here along the grip are actually quite straight . um i mean yeah , project manager : but the curves all o over hand , user interface : on the on the lcd i mean although we 've done it with a curve it project manager : is it ? user interface : could just as easily be done um without curves . the curve that 's really needed is up here , marketing : joystick . user interface : to put uh to keep the joystick in a good ergonomic position for it to have it rest on the top of the hand . marketing : okay . sure . okay , my bad . project manager : we would n't actually save a lot by reducing it anyway , so i mean for the purposes of this meeting maybe we can state that single curve still allows articulation . um unless we hear otherwise we could go ahead with that proposal . marketing : so i think the product is not gon na perform so well for my criteria . project manager : which is what we can get onto now . as long as so are we gon na say w we have to keep an eye on the time as well , but we 're gon na say um single curved design marketing : oh , wait a minute . sample speaker ? what is a sample speaker ? is that somewhat similar to what we want ? project manager : it could well be , but at a cost of user interface : that 's that voice response thing that we got the email about . industrial designer : costs four . marketing : yeah . user interface : but i thought it was just completely pointless . marketing : you got a email about voice response ? user interface : yeah . marketing : i did not , user interface : alright . b i basically it was saying that our labs had come up with a chip that you could , you know , say hello to , and it would say hello back in a friendly female voice . project manager : okay , yeah we 'll definitely wo n't go with that one . marketing : we wo n't go with that one , did you say ? project manager : yeah , that 's voice recognition , so . marketing : i mean i we okay , okay . project manager : um . so , okay yeah , battery definitely , marketing : so it looks like we 're gon na get rid of the whole loca locator thing . project manager : it looks like it unless we can manage to put it in under point two euros , um . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . okay . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe even slight well oh yeah , pretty much point two euros , i 'd say . so we 'll leave that one for now . we 'll just have industrial designer : are we going for a special colour at all ? project manager : it 's uh a case of um i 'm uh slightly unsure . one point five of a euro for one push button does n't sound quite right . so maybe it 's a case of a push button is maybe one or more . um . at which point if industrial designer : i was for a case . or had you already incorporated that ? marketing : oh , special colour for the case . project manager : well you got point five there . it 's literally a case of whether or not this is correct . i 'm not quite sure if they 're i do n't think they mean point five euros per button . user interface : okay , well marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : l let 's say that and then we can have our special coloured case and then we at least have make it a little harder to lose . project manager : there we go . user interface : because most m most remotes are a fairly dingy colour that gets camouflaged under any pile of crap in a living room . marketing : w what 's the default colour ? white or black ? project manager : black 's probably the normal colour you 'd say , user interface : or grey . project manager : yeah . marketing : right . project manager : i quite like that colour that you 're fetching there , user interface : yellow . project manager : it 's uh definitely for make it glow in the dark even better . marketing : yeah . project manager : so will we go with that then ? user interface : okay . project manager : it 's not and we can see marketing : yeah . project manager : we 'll come back to uh your evaluation marketing : sure . project manager : which you 're probably now going to pan us but there we go . marketing : okay . okay . industrial designer : marketing : so uh project manager : just to give you an idea , um you want to go maybe a bit quickly as well , i 'm not sure how much time . we 've not hit the five minute mark warning yet , marketing : right okay . okay . industrial designer : think it 's ten minutes left . marketing : 'kay . ability to stop remotes from being lost or to find them once they are lost . um . okay . industrial designer : special colour . marketing : special colour . project manager : mm mm four ? marketing : uh uh four . project manager : three ? mm . user interface : three . i think we can do three . marketing : three if we 're being generous , i feel . project manager : user interface : th the special colour does n't would i think make a difference . marketing : think we 're being generous here with three . industrial designer : three . user interface : it makes it stand out from you know it 's lost in a big pile of crap , it stands out from the rest of the crap . marketing : mm . yeah . okay . project manager : okay . marketing : reduce the number of unused buttons . we 're down to t two buttons , is it ? user interface : two buttons and a joystick . project manager : two buttons . marketing : okay , so that 's a one . you know , user interface : totally . marketing : where that 's project manager : yeah . i 'd say we 're doing well there . marketing : okay , that was good . easy to use interface , buttons menu , menus project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : that 's yeah that 's good . 'kay that 's we 're not doing so badly . um easy to use oh okay , let 's forget that one . fancy looking . project manager : as he models the user interface : it does n't get much fancier . marketing : sure . and we could do whatever we like with the l_ lcd . yeah let 's just assume it 's a good lcd display . project manager : marketing : maybe i was panicking for no reason . industrial designer : are we going one on ? marketing : yeah , industrial designer : i 'd say we go two , 'cause like f the fanciest would be the double curved . project manager : i 'd industrial designer : would n't it ? marketing : w maybe you 'd be a bit too project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . there we go . yeah , industrial designer : with the articulators . with bells on it . marketing : that 's m that 's that 's better too . more accurate numbers . technologically innovative . well , we 're getting rid of the locator thing project manager : which is a shame . marketing : which which user interface : mm . i 'd give it a three for this for that . marketing : yeah industrial designer : no need for teletext . marketing : . user interface : yeah . i mean the menus thing is something you do n't normally see on um on a remote , marketing : 'kay . user interface : but you see it in a lot of other places . marketing : yeah , mobile phones . and y what you 're doing is moving the menu from the television to the remote control , so it 's user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : you say three ? i might go as far as two on that . three . user interface : i 'd give it a three . project manager : i 'd be tempted with three , yeah . marketing : three . okay . project manager : we 'll get panned on the next one , anyway . marketing : okay . materials that people find pleasing . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , w marketing : sponginess is what they really would have wanted , apparently . project manager : it is , yeah . do n't blame them . marketing : project manager : um because of the way that we 've minimalised the number of buttons and such . marketing : yeah . project manager : plastic , it sucks . but it 's no worse than any of the other pl remote controls we have . marketing : that 's true . it 's not a step backwards . industrial designer : five ? user interface : mm-hmm . i 'd s i i 'd give it a six , to be honest . project manager : marketing : yeah , okay let 's give it a six . industrial designer : six , . marketing : okay , that 's totally thrown everything off balance . inspired by the latest interior and clothing fashion . w we could . what colour were we gon na make it ? industrial designer : put a leopard print on it . user interface : well i i i would sa i would say give a s give a selection of colours . marketing : i know , user interface : um we went with yellow we went with yellow for the prototype marketing : but user interface : 'cause we had yellow . if i were buying one , i 'd go for purple . leopard print would be cool . marketing : but um by this i think it 's more a case of fruit and veg , industrial designer : yeah we got ta . i 'd say the colour of the border there world you 'd find that , that 's that 'd stand out . marketing : yeah . project manager : like yellow , yeah . it would also help keep the the product placement s industrial designer : logo , brand . project manager : yeah . is it inspired by clothing fashion ? marketing : but th th they 're referring to the fruit and veg thing . industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : yes . marketing : is this like a banana type colour ? could we stretch no still , it 's not shaped like a banana is user interface : that 's kinda i project manager : it 's kind o it user interface : it wo n't be when it 's been project manager : probably marketing : oh is that 'cause it 's flat ? user interface : budgeted . marketing : what is what fruit or veg is flat ? user interface : i i think s i i think this is n't not particularly fruit and veggie . um . marketing : yeah . or we might have to suffer badly for this one as well . industrial designer : yellow courgette . user interface : project manager : well industrial designer : project manager : i mean it 's probably more fruit and veg than most other things out there bar fruit and veg , so , what , four ? marketing : four ? oh that 's it 's very ambitious , project manager : is that being too generous ? user interface : mm . i 'd i 'd i do n't think fruit and veg is the sole criterion . is the sole criterion for being um fashion fashionable or inspired by current fashions . marketing : yeah , um . project manager : oh dear , . marketing : sure . inspired by . user interface : um i 'd g i 'd rate i 'd rate this fairly highly from that point of view actually . industrial designer : well this this what we 're gon na t this is their motto , like . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and we 're we 're not doing well on it . marketing : this is their strategy . i m imagine we actually had some money invested in this and the amount that we invest is gon na be proportional to the marks . might we might wan na be a bit more skepible sceptical about this one . project manager : what would you think yourself ? marketing : i would say i mean it 's it 's not at all , right ? in any way or shape or form . project manager : well , it 's kind of curved marketing : we did n't m project manager : and we can make it yellow , and that 's pretty much banana like . marketing : okay , the the yellow banana like thing is i think is okay . project manager : si it 's got a curve to it . marketing : right five . is that sound reasonable ? project manager : am i do you think i 'm stretching the uh the use of the banana ? industrial designer : yeah , i 'll go with five . marketing : five . yeah . 'kay , so we have one , two , three , four , five , six , seven . so five , seven , ten , sixteen , twenty one . which gives us an average of three . it 's well this would be in the middle . so we it 's it 's not bad . it 's in the good section . project manager : it 's not bad and considering the do n't pick the pen . um . marketing : oops . sorry . i 'm i 'm sorry . industrial designer : project manager : y oh and you 've knocked batteries out . marketing : project manager : um right okay it 's industrial designer : 's bad design , that thing . project manager : considering the price we had to get this in , to have a positive you know , even based on the four of us being heavily biased , um marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : it was gon na be quite hard to get anything standing out i 'd say possibly , based on um the the cost features . industrial designer : mm , yeah . marketing : even if we were to increase this entire thing by by seven , we were to go down a grade to to four , we would have to do i mean we did n't we were n't that kinda optimistic too optim overly optimistic . you know like we did n't we did n't add we did n't subtract a whole seven points from these things , so i think we 're definitely on the good bit . user interface : marketing : even if we gave this one seven and this one seven , that 's still only three extra points over seven . you know , it 's yeah , user interface : mm . personally , i think given that the product um only replaces a single remote control marketing : we did it w it was okay . it was good . user interface : that you 've already got , are people really gon na shell out twenty five euros for something that 's only marginally good ? industrial designer : well , it depends who your who 's what the target people are , like you 'd say maybe the fashion conscious project manager : maybe it 's been targeted industrial designer : women would be going , oh look at that , 's cool , it looks like a marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's yellow , looks like a banana , it 's cool it 's got ta look good in the sitting room . project manager : hide it in the fruit basket . industrial designer : rather than the lcd whereas uh more technical like like more uh people in with the latest technology it 's good , it 's got an lcd screen 's only got two buttons and a joystick . so , which which kind of people would be more likely to buy it ? project manager : probably the people technologically . they 're usually the ones that buy pointless stuff . user interface : marketing : i think so . industrial designer : marketing : i mean my mum still has not learnt how to use text messaging on her phone , and she 's had it for a long time , you know . she uses it to make phone calls and that 's it . industrial designer : . marketing : yeah . so i think if sh if my mum saw a remote control like this with only two buttons and a joystick , i mean that 'll probably be the first one she decides not to buy , you know . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : she 'd be like is this a remote control , i do n't how do you use it , and stuff like that . so even if it is really user friendly to us , but we 're used to using menus all the time . user interface : mm-hmm . i s i suppose one thing is that b because it 's technically innovative , um for someone who 's sort of technophobic , the fact that it simply looks unfamiliar would be daunting . marketing : yeah . yeah . i think it 's totally uh radical to have a remote control with no no numbered buttons , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but like radical good , maybe . project manager : okay . um do n't know how lo much longer we 've got . at least five minutes i think . um quickly we 'll pop onto project evaluation . um . so , we 've got these uh four criteria here for uh satisfaction . does anybody want to um um do you have any opinions on any of them ? for example um we 'll work backwards i suppose . the ability to work on this project using the technology we 've been presented with . um people made good use of the uh pen and paper ? user interface : yeah , project manager : i would say user interface : got notes and doodles . marketing : wrote nearly a page , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but not . project manager : i 'm not quite sure what the advantage for us using a digital pen might be . user interface : well i think this is a i think the digital pen 's mostly for the benefit of the uh marketing : i think tracking . user interface : of the researchers studying this . it 's all p goes into their corpus . project manager : it must user interface : though it would have been nice to be able to transfer the um transfer our n our paper notes onto the uh computer ourselves . marketing : yeah , that woulda been pretty good . project manager : it does seem like the paper 's still a heavy consideration for taking notes . so maybe this is literally just a way around it . um i dunno . how are people satisfied with the teamwork we 've managed to display today ? user interface : . marketing : i 'd industrial designer : good . marketing : yeah i liked it , yeah . project manager : leadership . as much as can be leadered in this uh thing . industrial designer : very good . marketing : i li yeah , top marks . project manager : um last one we 've got is room for creativity . marketing : well user interface : unti uh uh until uh until accounts came along , project manager : now , i think we got user interface : squish . industrial designer : we 're burs bursting with creativity . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah marketing : we we 're not lacking in ideas , you know it 's that was not the problem . project manager : i think of in the end , ideas that can be used sadly . not so much that we were n't full of ideas , but of ones that are gon na allow us to actually build the thing . it 's a bit of a pity . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um i would have to agree on that . i think we needed a larger budget . marketing : yeah . project manager : if you 're going to aim your a um product maybe at the technological kind of sector , then you can afford to maybe jack the price up slightly from what it is . user interface : yeah . project manager : because they will pay outrageous cash to user interface : mm . i mean i th i mean i think to r retaining the s the more sort of bio-morphic form in the articulation would gain more in s uh would gain more profit in sales than it would lose in uh project manager : first on the market . user interface : in added expense . industrial designer : and the price was like it was twice the w assembly cost . and would it have to be twice that ? it could be like coulda had the assembly like maybe fifteen euro . project manager : it could even industrial designer : we 'll still settle for twenty five . project manager : that 's true , yeah . industrial designer : maybe . project manager : um i suppose these are all that will have to be taken up with a at a different group at i guess . as to a the costs involved . but i mean we 've got a a prototype . user interface : such as it is . project manager : so i dunno , i i think it 's gone okay today , considering the information that we 've had at our disposal , and um such . marketing : maybe the counts wou woulda been better if we had a list or more yeah , to begin with . industrial designer : in the beginning , yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : probably would have mean we could have come up with a lot more solid design in the end , marketing : yeah . project manager : i would have to agree . it is very much a pity to um get so far into the stage and then find out that maybe some of your ideas are just a bit too expensive . always hard to tell until you know the costs . um . okay . are the costs within budget ? well , industrial designer : project manager : they are now that we have our slightly less than capable product . marketing : okay . project manager : we 've evaluated it , and we can say that we came out with a value of three . marketing : yeah . user interface : actually i want th one thing i would say project manager : user interface : i mean something that could perhaps be part of the product mm the um m product testing market research process would be to uh produce mock-ups of both versions and see just how much of a difference the over going over-budget um m would make to sales . project manager : it 's yeah ? marketing : and like response from consumers . user interface : and we could even you know , market two versions . project manager : marketing : user interface : wee cheapie version with the nice bio-morphic rubber . project manager : and then the final one where you get to call it hal . but we 'll go into that later . marketing : sure . project manager : right um marketing : project manager : is there anything else that anybody would like to to add , um anything they think that 's not been covered , before i quickly write up a final report . um i dunno , i mean we 've got a product . we maybe are n't as happy with it as we 'd like to be , but we 've got something we think we can maybe stick onto the the market and sell . and of course something we have been avoiding talking about 'cause of we 've no information is selling them directly to the manufacturers . there is a huge market . marketing : yeah . project manager : i mean we 've briefly touched on it but we 've no more knowledge then there 's little we can say on that . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . so um unless anybody 's got anything they 'd like to add , we can maybe round this up slightly earlier than we 'd need to and then we can finish up the writing and such . user interface : and i can get my bus . okay . project manager : yeah ? marketing : yeah . okay , let 's project manager : uh thank you for your participation . marketing : thank you . user interface : thank you . marketing : i was actually kind of upset you know at the budget , and that we had to cut a lot of stuff . it 's like man , we we ca n't have the locator thing . and s yeah that 's just bad . do you think maybe the prices were were made ? </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about budget balancing ? </s> marketing : uh evaluation . basic point uh have a list of criteria that we need to rate the prototype by . um then we will it 's a seven s um seven seven step kinda evaluation process . so um not seven steps , seven scale . so after we 've finished doing all the ratings for each criteria , we average that and that will give us some type of uh confidence in our prototype . and uh the criteria based on real reactions ' kinda goals and policies , marketing strategies , and also those i put together from the user requirements phase . 'kay . um if you flip the so , those are the criteria . and uh perhaps i could have put 'em a bit better , but you notice a few things that we 've totally abandoned , which means that uh the product will score very badly on some of those points . project manager : marketing : put it mildly . so we have um true ? one , t seven , eight , oh . fourth . okay , so we have to go through each point . if we imagine it 's actually straight , and just give it a a score . so um how well would you say the prototype is uh how well have we realised the dream of being able to stop remotes from from being lost , or to be able to find them once they are lost . i mean , uh is the homing thing still the locator , is that still user interface : yeah , that 's still part of the design . marketing : sure . and adam , we can keep that in ? project manager : yeah , i believe so . so i mean i do n't think anybody could actually stop a remote being lost , marketing : okay . project manager : 'cause that would mean doing something about the human element , marketing : sure . project manager : but i 'd like to think that we 've done something about finding the damn thing once we have . user interface : mm . mm . and making it a bright colour helps marketing : sure . user interface : with the personally i would have gone for purple . project manager : marketing : mm . bright colour . so we still have that noise thing , yeah ? user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : os on a scale of one to seven , how would you guys rate it for finding finding it once it 's lost ? user interface : i 'd say number one . marketing : number one ? industrial designer : one . yeah . marketing : okay . number number one for the first criteria . user interface : i think w if it was just the sounder then th i mean something i 've found with uh w w with say tr trying to find uh a cordless phone or a m mobile , you can hear it , but you ca n't quite pin it dow pin down where it is . marketing : yeah you can tell what room the mobile is industrial designer : what about what if the the volume on the tv 's turned up massively and uh you just wan na turn down the volume ca n't find remote . suppose you have to go to the tv and do it manually . mm . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm . um marketing : yeah . industrial designer : like y you would n't hear the speaker . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : just before we go through all of the steps here , um well what we 'll do is marketing : you wan na say something ? project manager : um if we can look at the criteria you 're gon na evaluate , and then we 'll come back to the product evaluation if that 's alright . marketing : that 's fine . project manager : yeah , is that marketing : oh that 's that 's fine . project manager : um so is there anything here that you that you wanted to cover as in the criteria that you 've covered ? and then we 'll come back pretty much promptly to this . marketing : what do you mean cr is there anything i wan na project manager : i is there any of these criteria that need any explaining ? or is there anything that yous thought tha really would stand out compared to the others ? marketing : um , a few . something i neglected from my initial research is that real reactions has a a goal strategy that all of the products be inspired by material fashion , and clothing fashion . that is why fruit and veg being popular in the home and in clothing was important and they want all their products to be somehow inspired by current trends in fashion . so they say we put the fashion in electronics , well they really mean it they they 're very big on fashion , project manager : okay . marketing : so . that 's this bit right here . and uh this bit is this one easy to use for visitors or for anybody ? i guess it 's just the same as saying easy to use interface , so it 's kinda condensed into one . and we can come back to it , you said . project manager : okay . no and which we will do very very shortly . um . okay . slight problem we had was that we have an amazing four euros over budget for what we were hoping to do . um most of it stems from the use of the lcd which i think in the end accounted for about half of our expenditure because of course we required a chip as well . um the only way to get this down was either to ditch the a lcd , at which point we 've removed a large part of how we were gon na interface , require more buttons , etcetera . or what we did was that we um we as in i as i was quickly going over it was altering the actual structure . um changing it to plastic and a solid unit with a single curve design would allow us to come back into the um proposed costs and we 're just scraping it in , we 've got point two of a euro left over there . so we 're just managing it really . even then as well , um there was no criteria technically defined for a joystick so i 've used what i think 's appropriate . with any luck that wo n't mean that we 've incurred more cost than we can actually afford to . it blows a lot of our really good ideas kind of slightly to one side , for example the possibility of having a u_s_b_ connection is definitely not viable now . um . marketing : different languages ? project manager : that should still be viable . we 've got an advanced chip , we 've got the use of the lcd . so being able to communicate in multiple languages is still very much a possibility . marketing : yeah . project manager : um but what 's something we need to decide on is how we 're gon na go from here . we do need to try and come up with an idea which could be continued with other people if need be . um . we can i can bring the excel up sheet up and uh show you if you wish um . i really think as m much as it pains me is that we might have to go with plastic and some kind of solid design , possibly meaning that the lcd would n't be in this perfect place . it might be s stuck like slightly between what would be good for left handed and what would be good for a right handed person . user interface : mm-hmm i suppose o one thing that could be done is h is have it um circular and have it s so that the uh the pink actually goes a bit over the pinkie finger . mm . project manager : okay . user interface : so that uh th project manager : it very much is about making concessions , unfortunately . um . marketing : do you have any data on how much um different prints cost ? i mean can you get the entire thing printed with a design um ? project manager : um b b b da is you mean on the plastic , or ? marketing : . project manager : let 's have a look . you now have as much information as i do . um . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : so as you can see here , for example , the battery really not very little choice in that one . we 've gone for one of the cheaper options as well . unfortunately we require the advanced chip if we 're gon na do what we 're needing to . i 've said single curved . we really do need it to be that way for the ergonomics of it . um plastic for some reason incurs no cost , which i 've had to very much make advantage of , despite the fact that rubber 's only got a value of two euros per unit . problem comes here as you can see in the interface . um if i 've read this thing correctly , then we can save point five of a euro here in that it 's not per push button . that might make sense , because then a numeric keypad would come in at um what , four point five euros , which is an awful lot , so that could well be wrong . even if we save point five there , it would just mean that we 're most likely placing it in actually just gaining a colour for the unit , which has had to be put to one side . as you can see , the use of an l_c_ display um advanced chip and what would determine the scroll wheel here as well because it 's an integrated scroll scroll wheel push button that was n't quite what i think they had in mind with a joystick . marketing : why would why would that be more expensive than an individual push button and scroll wheel together ? that 's quite significantly expensive . project manager : i that 's something you 'll have to take up with the bean counters . um marketing : . industrial designer : user interface : mm . yeah . project manager : as you can see i mean that 's taken up well over half of the price . marketing : yeah . project manager : so um i 'm very much open to suggestions of where we go , but because we need to shed what was four euros off of the um the price of for what we really desired , this one comes in under price as you can see , but this was the one that sacrificed the material for the case and for the actual case design . marketing : we do n't even have uh speakers here . the like uh we uh what about speakers and transmitters and stuff like that ? have we factored that in ? project manager : uh no , we have n't , not marketing : transmitter , receiver , speakers . plus the extra device itself that 's gon na be on a tv . industrial designer : marketing : is that gon na be a button , or project manager : that 'll it literally would just be a button . marketing : yeah . project manager : we might have to industrial designer : that 's too expensive is n't it ? project manager : it looks like almost nothing mm . oh good call , i missed that . marketing : i i mean it 's not on here , but um . project manager : that 's a very valid point . marketing : did they s do we have to use an advanced chip for the lcd ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . well that 's yeah . project manager : so if we 're gon na go with the l_c_ display , then that 's marketing : what 's a hand dyna dynamo ? you have to wind it up ? project manager : i believe so , yeah . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : that would probably not be in keeping with the um the fashion statement and such , marketing : technology . yeah . industrial designer : fashion . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : so basically the only new thing is the lcd on the remote now . project manager : being manipulated by the joystick , yeah . industrial designer : oh , and joystick , yeah . project manager : which i 'm defining as scroll wheel . um . marketing : and we could n't replace the joystick , right ? because we would need four extra buttons to replace it , up down left and right , and that would be more expensive than a but is a scroll wheel not just back and forward ? project manager : yeah it 's just because there was no actual definition for what a joystick might be , that that 's what i 've labelled it for the purposes of this evaluation . industrial designer : so the lcd basically is the big selling point of project manager : if we remove the l_c_ display , we could save ourselves industrial designer : the remote . project manager : a fair amount . which you could industrial designer : but that 's what makes it uh original though , user interface : mm . i think if we remove the the l_c_ display then there was absolutely no point to any of these meetings marketing : yeah . industrial designer : is n't it ? user interface : and we just we could just put our branding on any other remote control . marketing : yeah . yeah . um . uh k project manager : it 's a shame . we should possibly have if we could 've increased the price we could 've manufactured that and we could 've got something far closer to what we were hoping to . marketing : does this does this bear in mind that i mean it 's a bit ridiculous that they 're gon na charge us what is it , like this much money for three million if we 're gon na buy three million components , project manager : again , you 'll have to argue with the accountants on that one . marketing : you know . project manager : um but for the purposes of this meeting , i 'm we 're gon na have to stick with these figures . marketing : mm . 'kay . project manager : so , i would say that it would seem like the general opinion is we 're gon na keep the l_c_ display 'cause it 's about what really separates us , despite the cost it 's gon na incur . um marketing : i think so . project manager : are people maybe not happy with , but are willing to go ahead with this in going for a plastic solid case , to keep the lcd ? user interface : mm-hmm . um yeah i mean one thing , i mean ho uh how much extra would it be to to keep i mean keep the um the articulation ? project manager : it 's hard to tell . um i would say that you 're at least gon na take double curved , user interface : this is what i 'm wondering . project manager : and even then i 'm not quite sure if that 's incorporating the idea of articulation . marketing : yeah . user interface : no , i think i i it d that it need n't require it to be double curved . industrial designer : it can be s yeah , it can still be single curved , user interface : it 's uh it 's just it 's just it 's just that the case would come in t would be made in two parts and then joined together with an articulation . industrial designer : but project manager : single curved with articulation ? industrial designer : you just . marketing : could we could we not get rid of the curvy the curvous the curvaceousness and focus on the menu being the best interface ? 'cause like we do we have re restrictions on software ? industrial designer : that 's what we need for the joystick i think though . user interface : mm . yeah , i mean marketing : oh but there has to be user interface : and i mean the uh i mean if you look uh if you look closer at the uh at the prototype here , the lines here along the grip are actually quite straight . um i mean yeah , project manager : but the curves all o over hand , user interface : on the on the lcd i mean although we 've done it with a curve it project manager : is it ? user interface : could just as easily be done um without curves . the curve that 's really needed is up here , marketing : joystick . user interface : to put uh to keep the joystick in a good ergonomic position for it to have it rest on the top of the hand . marketing : okay . sure . okay , my bad . project manager : we would n't actually save a lot by reducing it anyway , so i mean for the purposes of this meeting maybe we can state that single curve still allows articulation . um unless we hear otherwise we could go ahead with that proposal . marketing : so i think the product is not gon na perform so well for my criteria . project manager : which is what we can get onto now . as long as so are we gon na say w we have to keep an eye on the time as well , but we 're gon na say um single curved design marketing : oh , wait a minute . sample speaker ? what is a sample speaker ? is that somewhat similar to what we want ? project manager : it could well be , but at a cost of user interface : that 's that voice response thing that we got the email about . industrial designer : costs four . marketing : yeah . user interface : but i thought it was just completely pointless . marketing : you got a email about voice response ? user interface : yeah . marketing : i did not , user interface : alright . b i basically it was saying that our labs had come up with a chip that you could , you know , say hello to , and it would say hello back in a friendly female voice . project manager : okay , yeah we 'll definitely wo n't go with that one . marketing : we wo n't go with that one , did you say ? project manager : yeah , that 's voice recognition , so . marketing : i mean i we okay , okay . project manager : um . so , okay yeah , battery definitely , marketing : so it looks like we 're gon na get rid of the whole loca locator thing . project manager : it looks like it unless we can manage to put it in under point two euros , um . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . okay . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe even slight well oh yeah , pretty much point two euros , i 'd say . so we 'll leave that one for now . we 'll just have industrial designer : are we going for a special colour at all ? project manager : it 's uh a case of um i 'm uh slightly unsure . one point five of a euro for one push button does n't sound quite right . so maybe it 's a case of a push button is maybe one or more . um . at which point if industrial designer : i was for a case . or had you already incorporated that ? marketing : oh , special colour for the case . project manager : well you got point five there . it 's literally a case of whether or not this is correct . i 'm not quite sure if they 're i do n't think they mean point five euros per button . user interface : okay , well marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : l let 's say that and then we can have our special coloured case and then we at least have make it a little harder to lose . project manager : there we go . user interface : because most m most remotes are a fairly dingy colour that gets camouflaged under any pile of crap in a living room . marketing : w what 's the default colour ? white or black ? project manager : black 's probably the normal colour you 'd say , user interface : or grey . project manager : yeah . marketing : right . project manager : i quite like that colour that you 're fetching there , user interface : yellow . project manager : it 's uh definitely for make it glow in the dark even better . marketing : yeah . project manager : so will we go with that then ? user interface : okay . project manager : it 's not and we can see marketing : yeah . project manager : we 'll come back to uh your evaluation marketing : sure . project manager : which you 're probably now going to pan us but there we go . marketing : okay . okay . industrial designer : marketing : so uh project manager : just to give you an idea , um you want to go maybe a bit quickly as well , i 'm not sure how much time . we 've not hit the five minute mark warning yet , marketing : right okay . okay . </s>
<s> summarize the conclusion of the incorporation of articulation when discussing budget balancing . </s> user interface : mm-hmm . um yeah i mean one thing , i mean ho uh how much extra would it be to to keep i mean keep the um the articulation ? project manager : it 's hard to tell . um i would say that you 're at least gon na take double curved , user interface : this is what i 'm wondering . project manager : and even then i 'm not quite sure if that 's incorporating the idea of articulation . marketing : yeah . user interface : no , i think i i it d that it need n't require it to be double curved . industrial designer : it can be s yeah , it can still be single curved , user interface : it 's uh it 's just it 's just it 's just that the case would come in t would be made in two parts and then joined together with an articulation . industrial designer : but project manager : single curved with articulation ? industrial designer : you just . marketing : could we could we not get rid of the curvy the curvous the curvaceousness and focus on the menu being the best interface ? 'cause like we do we have re restrictions on software ? industrial designer : that 's what we need for the joystick i think though . user interface : mm . yeah , i mean marketing : oh but there has to be user interface : and i mean the uh i mean if you look uh if you look closer at the uh at the prototype here , the lines here along the grip are actually quite straight . um i mean yeah , project manager : but the curves all o over hand , user interface : on the on the lcd i mean although we 've done it with a curve it project manager : is it ? user interface : could just as easily be done um without curves . the curve that 's really needed is up here , marketing : joystick . user interface : to put uh to keep the joystick in a good ergonomic position for it to have it rest on the top of the hand . marketing : okay . sure . okay , my bad . project manager : we would n't actually save a lot by reducing it anyway , so i mean for the purposes of this meeting maybe we can state that single curve still allows articulation . um unless we hear otherwise we could go ahead with that proposal . </s>
<s> summarize the conclusion of the location function when discussing budget balancing . </s> marketing : oh , wait a minute . sample speaker ? what is a sample speaker ? is that somewhat similar to what we want ? project manager : it could well be , but at a cost of user interface : that 's that voice response thing that we got the email about . industrial designer : costs four . marketing : yeah . user interface : but i thought it was just completely pointless . marketing : you got a email about voice response ? user interface : yeah . marketing : i did not , user interface : alright . b i basically it was saying that our labs had come up with a chip that you could , you know , say hello to , and it would say hello back in a friendly female voice . project manager : okay , yeah we 'll definitely wo n't go with that one . marketing : we wo n't go with that one , did you say ? project manager : yeah , that 's voice recognition , so . marketing : i mean i we okay , okay . project manager : um . so , okay yeah , battery definitely , marketing : so it looks like we 're gon na get rid of the whole loca locator thing . project manager : it looks like it unless we can manage to put it in under point two euros , um . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . okay . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe even slight well oh yeah , pretty much point two euros , i 'd say . so we 'll leave that one for now . we 'll just have industrial designer : are we going for a special colour at all ? project manager : it 's uh a case of um i 'm uh slightly unsure . one point five of a euro for one push button does n't sound quite right . so maybe it 's a case of a push button is maybe one or more . um . at which point if industrial designer : i was for a case . or had you already incorporated that ? marketing : oh , special colour for the case . project manager : well you got point five there . it 's literally a case of whether or not this is correct . i 'm not quite sure if they 're i do n't think they mean point five euros per button . user interface : okay , well marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : l let 's say that and then we can have our special coloured case and then we at least have make it a little harder to lose . project manager : there we go . user interface : because most m most remotes are a fairly dingy colour that gets camouflaged under any pile of crap in a living room . marketing : w what 's the default colour ? white or black ? project manager : black 's probably the normal colour you 'd say , user interface : or grey . project manager : yeah . marketing : right . project manager : i quite like that colour that you 're fetching there , user interface : yellow . project manager : it 's uh definitely for make it glow in the dark even better . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the product evaluation ? </s> marketing : 'kay . ability to stop remotes from being lost or to find them once they are lost . um . okay . industrial designer : special colour . marketing : special colour . project manager : mm mm four ? marketing : uh uh four . project manager : three ? mm . user interface : three . i think we can do three . marketing : three if we 're being generous , i feel . project manager : user interface : th the special colour does n't would i think make a difference . marketing : think we 're being generous here with three . industrial designer : three . user interface : it makes it stand out from you know it 's lost in a big pile of crap , it stands out from the rest of the crap . marketing : mm . yeah . okay . project manager : okay . marketing : reduce the number of unused buttons . we 're down to t two buttons , is it ? user interface : two buttons and a joystick . project manager : two buttons . marketing : okay , so that 's a one . you know , user interface : totally . marketing : where that 's project manager : yeah . i 'd say we 're doing well there . marketing : okay , that was good . easy to use interface , buttons menu , menus project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : that 's yeah that 's good . 'kay that 's we 're not doing so badly . um easy to use oh okay , let 's forget that one . fancy looking . project manager : as he models the user interface : it does n't get much fancier . marketing : sure . and we could do whatever we like with the l_ lcd . yeah let 's just assume it 's a good lcd display . project manager : marketing : maybe i was panicking for no reason . industrial designer : are we going one on ? marketing : yeah , industrial designer : i 'd say we go two , 'cause like f the fanciest would be the double curved . project manager : i 'd industrial designer : would n't it ? marketing : w maybe you 'd be a bit too project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . there we go . yeah , industrial designer : with the articulators . with bells on it . marketing : that 's m that 's that 's better too . more accurate numbers . technologically innovative . well , we 're getting rid of the locator thing project manager : which is a shame . marketing : which which user interface : mm . i 'd give it a three for this for that . marketing : yeah industrial designer : no need for teletext . marketing : . user interface : yeah . i mean the menus thing is something you do n't normally see on um on a remote , marketing : 'kay . user interface : but you see it in a lot of other places . marketing : yeah , mobile phones . and y what you 're doing is moving the menu from the television to the remote control , so it 's user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : you say three ? i might go as far as two on that . three . user interface : i 'd give it a three . project manager : i 'd be tempted with three , yeah . marketing : three . okay . project manager : we 'll get panned on the next one , anyway . marketing : okay . materials that people find pleasing . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , w marketing : sponginess is what they really would have wanted , apparently . project manager : it is , yeah . do n't blame them . marketing : project manager : um because of the way that we 've minimalised the number of buttons and such . marketing : yeah . project manager : plastic , it sucks . but it 's no worse than any of the other pl remote controls we have . marketing : that 's true . it 's not a step backwards . industrial designer : five ? user interface : mm-hmm . i 'd s i i 'd give it a six , to be honest . project manager : marketing : yeah , okay let 's give it a six . industrial designer : six , . marketing : okay , that 's totally thrown everything off balance . inspired by the latest interior and clothing fashion . w we could . what colour were we gon na make it ? industrial designer : put a leopard print on it . user interface : well i i i would sa i would say give a s give a selection of colours . marketing : i know , user interface : um we went with yellow we went with yellow for the prototype marketing : but user interface : 'cause we had yellow . if i were buying one , i 'd go for purple . leopard print would be cool . marketing : but um by this i think it 's more a case of fruit and veg , industrial designer : yeah we got ta . i 'd say the colour of the border there world you 'd find that , that 's that 'd stand out . marketing : yeah . project manager : like yellow , yeah . it would also help keep the the product placement s industrial designer : logo , brand . project manager : yeah . is it inspired by clothing fashion ? marketing : but th th they 're referring to the fruit and veg thing . industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : yes . marketing : is this like a banana type colour ? could we stretch no still , it 's not shaped like a banana is user interface : that 's kinda i project manager : it 's kind o it user interface : it wo n't be when it 's been project manager : probably marketing : oh is that 'cause it 's flat ? user interface : budgeted . marketing : what is what fruit or veg is flat ? user interface : i i think s i i think this is n't not particularly fruit and veggie . um . marketing : yeah . or we might have to suffer badly for this one as well . industrial designer : yellow courgette . user interface : project manager : well industrial designer : project manager : i mean it 's probably more fruit and veg than most other things out there bar fruit and veg , so , what , four ? marketing : four ? oh that 's it 's very ambitious , project manager : is that being too generous ? user interface : mm . i 'd i 'd i do n't think fruit and veg is the sole criterion . is the sole criterion for being um fashion fashionable or inspired by current fashions . marketing : yeah , um . project manager : oh dear , . marketing : sure . inspired by . user interface : um i 'd g i 'd rate i 'd rate this fairly highly from that point of view actually . industrial designer : well this this what we 're gon na t this is their motto , like . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and we 're we 're not doing well on it . marketing : this is their strategy . i m imagine we actually had some money invested in this and the amount that we invest is gon na be proportional to the marks . might we might wan na be a bit more skepible sceptical about this one . project manager : what would you think yourself ? marketing : i would say i mean it 's it 's not at all , right ? in any way or shape or form . project manager : well , it 's kind of curved marketing : we did n't m project manager : and we can make it yellow , and that 's pretty much banana like . marketing : okay , the the yellow banana like thing is i think is okay . project manager : si it 's got a curve to it . marketing : right five . is that sound reasonable ? project manager : am i do you think i 'm stretching the uh the use of the banana ? industrial designer : yeah , i 'll go with five . marketing : five . yeah . 'kay , so we have one , two , three , four , five , six , seven . so five , seven , ten , sixteen , twenty one . which gives us an average of three . it 's well this would be in the middle . so we it 's it 's not bad . it 's in the good section . project manager : it 's not bad and considering the do n't pick the pen . um . marketing : oops . sorry . i 'm i 'm sorry . industrial designer : project manager : y oh and you 've knocked batteries out . marketing : project manager : um right okay it 's industrial designer : 's bad design , that thing . project manager : considering the price we had to get this in , to have a positive you know , even based on the four of us being heavily biased , um marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : it was gon na be quite hard to get anything standing out i 'd say possibly , based on um the the cost features . industrial designer : mm , yeah . marketing : even if we were to increase this entire thing by by seven , we were to go down a grade to to four , we would have to do i mean we did n't we were n't that kinda optimistic too optim overly optimistic . you know like we did n't we did n't add we did n't subtract a whole seven points from these things , so i think we 're definitely on the good bit . user interface : marketing : even if we gave this one seven and this one seven , that 's still only three extra points over seven . you know , it 's yeah , user interface : mm . personally , i think given that the product um only replaces a single remote control marketing : we did it w it was okay . it was good . user interface : that you 've already got , are people really gon na shell out twenty five euros for something that 's only marginally good ? industrial designer : well , it depends who your who 's what the target people are , like you 'd say maybe the fashion conscious project manager : maybe it 's been targeted industrial designer : women would be going , oh look at that , 's cool , it looks like a marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's yellow , looks like a banana , it 's cool it 's got ta look good in the sitting room . project manager : hide it in the fruit basket . industrial designer : rather than the lcd whereas uh more technical like like more uh people in with the latest technology it 's good , it 's got an lcd screen 's only got two buttons and a joystick . so , which which kind of people would be more likely to buy it ? project manager : probably the people technologically . they 're usually the ones that buy pointless stuff . user interface : marketing : i think so . industrial designer : marketing : i mean my mum still has not learnt how to use text messaging on her phone , and she 's had it for a long time , you know . she uses it to make phone calls and that 's it . industrial designer : . marketing : yeah . so i think if sh if my mum saw a remote control like this with only two buttons and a joystick , i mean that 'll probably be the first one she decides not to buy , you know . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : she 'd be like is this a remote control , i do n't how do you use it , and stuff like that . so even if it is really user friendly to us , but we 're used to using menus all the time . user interface : mm-hmm . i s i suppose one thing is that b because it 's technically innovative , um for someone who 's sort of technophobic , the fact that it simply looks unfamiliar would be daunting . marketing : yeah . yeah . i think it 's totally uh radical to have a remote control with no no numbered buttons , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the plastic material when discussing the product evaluation ? </s> marketing : okay . materials that people find pleasing . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , w marketing : sponginess is what they really would have wanted , apparently . project manager : it is , yeah . do n't blame them . marketing : project manager : um because of the way that we 've minimalised the number of buttons and such . marketing : yeah . project manager : plastic , it sucks . but it 's no worse than any of the other pl remote controls we have . marketing : that 's true . it 's not a step backwards . industrial designer : five ? user interface : mm-hmm . i 'd s i i 'd give it a six , to be honest . project manager : marketing : yeah , okay let 's give it a six . </s>
<s> what did user interface think of the fashion style of the remote control when discussing the product evaluation ? </s> project manager : is it inspired by clothing fashion ? marketing : but th th they 're referring to the fruit and veg thing . industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : yes . marketing : is this like a banana type colour ? could we stretch no still , it 's not shaped like a banana is user interface : that 's kinda i project manager : it 's kind o it user interface : it wo n't be when it 's been project manager : probably marketing : oh is that 'cause it 's flat ? user interface : budgeted . marketing : what is what fruit or veg is flat ? user interface : i i think s i i think this is n't not particularly fruit and veggie . um . marketing : yeah . or we might have to suffer badly for this one as well . industrial designer : yellow courgette . user interface : project manager : well industrial designer : project manager : i mean it 's probably more fruit and veg than most other things out there bar fruit and veg , so , what , four ? marketing : four ? oh that 's it 's very ambitious , project manager : is that being too generous ? user interface : mm . i 'd i 'd i do n't think fruit and veg is the sole criterion . is the sole criterion for being um fashion fashionable or inspired by current fashions . marketing : yeah , um . project manager : oh dear , . marketing : sure . inspired by . user interface : um i 'd g i 'd rate i 'd rate this fairly highly from that point of view actually . industrial designer : well this this what we 're gon na t this is their motto , like . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd a : eh , we should be going . professor b : so ne next week we 'll have , uh , both birger and , uh , mike michael michael kleinschmidt and birger kollmeier will join us . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : um , and you 're you 're probably gon na go up in a couple three weeks or so ? when d when are you thinking of going up to , uh , ogi ? phd d : yeah , like , uh , not next week but maybe the week after . professor b : ok . good . so at least we 'll have one meeting with yo with you still around , and and phd d : uh - huh . professor b : that 's good . phd d : um , yeah . well , maybe we can start with this . mmm . professor b : all today , huh ? phd d : yeah . um . yeah . so there was this conference call this morning , um , and the only topic on the agenda was just to discuss a and to come at uh , to get a decision about this latency problem . professor b : no , this i 'm sorry , this is a conference call between different aurora people or just ? phd d : uh , yeah . it 's the conference call between the aurora , uh , group . professor b : it 's the main conference call . ok . phd d : uh , yeah . there were like two hours of discussions , and then suddenly , uh , people were tired , i guess , and they decided on a number , two hundred and twenty , um , included e including everything . uh , it means that it 's like eighty milliseconds less than before . professor b : and what are we sitting at currently ? yeah . phd d : so , currently d uh , we have system that has two hundred and thirty . so , that 's fine . professor b : two thirty . phd d : yeah . so that 's the system that 's described on the second point of this document . professor b : so it 's we have to reduce it by ten milliseconds somehow . phd d : yeah . but that 's yeah . that 's not a problem , i i guess . professor b : ok . w it 's it 's p d primary primarily determined by the vad at this point , right ? phd d : yeah . professor b : s so we can make the vad a little shorter . phd d : yeah . at this point , yeah . professor b : that 's phd d : yeah , uh - huh . professor b : yeah . we probably should do that pretty soon so that we do n't get used to it being a certain way . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : yeah . was hari on the on the phone ? phd d : yeah , sure . well , it was mainly a discussion between hari and david , who was like professor b : yeah . phd d : mmm uh , yeah . so , the second thing is the system that we have currently . oh , yes . we have , like , a system that gives sixty - two percent improvement , but if you want to stick to the this latency well , it has a latency of two thirty , but if you want also to stick to the number of features that limit it to sixty , then we go a little bit down but it 's still sixty - one percent . uh , and if we drop the tandem network , then we have fifty - seven percent . professor b : uh , but th the two th two thirty includes the tandem network ? phd d : yeah . professor b : ok . and i is the tandem network , uh , small enough that it will fit on the terminal size in terms of ? phd d : uh , no , i do n't think so . it 's still in terms of computation , if we use , like , their way of computing the the maps the the mips , i think it fits , professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : but it 's , uh , m mainly a problem of memory . professor b : right . phd d : um , and i do n't know how much this can be discussed or not , because it 's it could be in rom , so it 's maybe not that expensive . but professor b : ho - how much memory d ? h how many ? phd d : i d i d uh , i i do n't kn remember exactly , but uh . yeah , i c i i have to check that . professor b : yeah . i 'd like to see that , cuz maybe i could think a little bit about it , cuz we maybe we could make it a little smaller or i mean , it 'd be it 'd be neat if we could fit it all . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : uh , i 'd like to see how far off we are . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : but i guess it 's still within their rules to have have it on the , uh , t uh , server side . right ? phd d : yeah . yeah . professor b : and this is still ? uh , well , y you 're saying here . i c i should just let you go on . phd d : yeah , there were small tricks to make this tandem network work . uh , mmm , and one of the trick was to , um , use some kind of hierarchical structure where the silence probability is not computed by the final tandem network but by the vad network . um , so apparently it looks better when , uh , we use the silence probability from the vad network and we re - scale the other probabilities by one minus the silence probability . um . so it 's some kind of hierarchical thing , uh , that sunil also tried , um , on spine and apparently it helps a little bit also . mmm . and . yeah , the reason w why why we did that with the silence probability was that , um professor b : could ? uh , uh , i 'm i 'm really sorry . can you repeat what you were saying about the silence probability ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : i only my mind was some phd d : yeah . so there is the tandem network that e e e estimates the phone probabilities professor b : yeah . yeah . phd d : and the silence probabilities also . professor b : right . phd d : and things get better when , instead of using the silence probability computed by the tandem network , we use the silence probability , uh , given by the vad network , professor b : the vad network is ? phd d : which is smaller , but maybe , um so we have a network for the vad which has one hundred hidden units , and the tandem network has five hundred . um . so it 's smaller but th the silence probability from this network seems , uh , better . mmm . uh . well , it looks strange , but professor b : yeah . but phd d : but it maybe it 's has something to do to the fact that we do n't have infinite training data and professor b : we do n't ? phd d : well ! and so well , things are not optimal professor b : yeah . phd d : and mmm grad e : are you you were going to say why what made you wh what led you to do that . phd d : yeah . uh , there was a p { comment } problem that we observed , um , that there was there were , like , many insertions in the in the system . professor b : mm - hmm . phd d : actually plugging in the tandem network was increasing , i i i think , the number of insertions . professor b : mm - hmm . phd d : and , um so it looked strange and then just using the the other silence probability helps . mmm . um yeah . the next thing we will do is train this tandem on more data . professor b : so , you know , in a way what it might i it 's it 's a little bit like combining knowledge sources . phd d : um professor b : right ? because the fact that you have these two nets that are different sizes means they behave a little differently , phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : they find different things . and , um , if you have , um f the distribution that you have from , uh , f speech sounds is w { comment } sort of one source of knowledge . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : and this is and rather than just taking one minus that to get the other , which is essentially what 's happening , you have this other source of knowledge that you 're putting in there . so you make use of both of them in in what you 're ending up with . maybe it 's better . phd d : yeah . professor b : anyway , you can probably justify anything if what 's use phd d : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd d : and and the features are different also . i mean , the vad does n't use the same features there are . professor b : mm - hmm . phd d : um professor b : that might be the key , actually . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : cuz you were really thinking about speech versus nonspeech for that . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : that 's a good point . phd d : mmm . uh . well , there are other things that we should do but , um , it requires time and we have ideas , like so , these things are like hav having a better vad . uh , we have some ideas about that . it would probably implies working a little bit on features that are more suited to a voice activity detection . professor b : mm - hmm . phd d : working on the second stream . of course we have ideas on this also , but w we need to try different things and uh , but their noise estimation , um uh professor b : i mean , back on the second stream , i mean , that 's something we 've talked about for a while . i mean , i think that 's certainly a high hope . phd d : yeah . mmm . professor b : um , so we have this this default idea about just using some sort of purely spectral thing ? phd d : uh , yeah . professor b : for a second stream ? phd d : but , um , we we did a first try with this , and it it clearly hurts . professor b : but , uh , how was the stream combined ? phd d : uh . it was c it was just combined , um , by the acoustic model . so there was , no neural network for the moment . professor b : right . so , i mean , if you just had a second stream that was just spectral and had another neural net and combined there , that that , uh , might be good . phd d : mm - hmm . yeah . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . mmm . yeah . um yeah , and the other thing , that noise estimation and th um , maybe try to train uh , the training data for the t tandem network , right now , is like i is using the noises from the aurora task and i think that people might , um , try to argue about that because then in some cases we have the same noises in for training the network than the noises that are used for testing , professor b : right . phd d : and so we have t n uh , to try to get rid of these this problem . professor b : yeah . maybe you just put in some other noise , something that 's different . phd d : mm - hmm . yeah . professor b : i mean , it it 's probably helpful to have have a little noise there . but it may be something else phd d : uh - huh . professor b : th at least you could say it was . phd d : yeah . professor b : and then if it does n't hurt too much , though . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : yeah . that 's a good idea . phd d : um . yeah . the last thing is that i think we are getting close to human performance . well , that 's something i would like to investigate further , but , um , i did , like , um i did , uh , listen to the m most noisy utterances of the speechdat - car italian and tried to transcribe them . and , um professor b : so this is a particular human . this is this i this is stephane . phd d : yeah . so that 's that 's grad e : st - stephane . professor b : yeah . phd d : that 's the the flaw of the experiment . this is just i j { comment } it 's just one subject , professor b : yeah . grad e : getting close . phd d : but but still , uh , what happens is is that , uh , the digit error rate on this is around one percent , professor b : yeah . phd d : while our system is currently at seven percent . um , but what happens also is that if i listen to the , um a re - synthesized version of the speech and i re - synthesized this using a white noise that 's filtered by a lpc , uh , filter professor b : yeah . phd d : um , well , you can argue , that , uh that this is not speech , professor b : yeah . phd d : so the ear is not trained to recognize this . but s actually it sound like whispering , so we are professor b : well , i mean , it 's phd d : eh professor b : there 's two problems there . i mean i mean , so so the first is that by doing lpc - twelve with synthesized speech w like you 're saying , uh , it 's i i you 're you 're adding other degradation . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : right ? so it 's not just the noise but you 're adding in fact some degradation because it 's only an approximation . um , and the second thing is which is m maybe more interesting is that , um , { comment } if you do it with whispered speech , you get this number . what if you had done analysis { comment } re - synthesis and taken the pitch as well ? alright ? so now you put the pitch in . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : what would the percentage be then ? phd d : um professor b : see , that 's the question . so , you see , if it 's if it 's if it 's , uh let 's say it 's back down to one percent again . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : that would say at least for people , having the pitch is really , really important , which would be interesting in itself . um , phd d : uh , yeah . but professor b : if i on the other hand , if it stayed up near five percent , then i 'd say `` boy , lpc n twelve is pretty crummy `` . you know ? phd d : uh - huh . professor b : so i i i 'm not sure i 'm not sure how we can conclude from this anything about that our system is close to the human performance . phd d : ye yeah . well , the point is that eh l ey the point is that , um , what i what i listened to when i re - synthesized the lp - the lpc - twelve spectrum is in a way what the system , uh , is hearing , cuz @ @ all the all the , um , excitation all the well , the excitation is is not taken into account . that 's what we do with our system . and professor b : well , you 're not doing the lpc phd d : in this case professor b : i mean , so so what if you did a phd d : well , it 's not lpc , sure , professor b : what if you did lpc - twenty ? phd d : but lpc ? professor b : twenty . right ? i mean , th the thing is lpc is not a a really great representation of speech . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : so , all i 'm saying is that you have in addition to the w the , uh , removal of pitch , you also are doing , uh , a particular parameterization , phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : which , um , uh uh , so , let 's see , how would you do ? so , fo phd d : but that 's that 's what we do with our systems . and professor b : no . actually , we d we we do n't , because we do we do , uh , uh , mel filter bank , for instance . right ? phd d : yeah , but is it that is it that different , i mean ? professor b : um , i do n't know what mel , uh , based synthesis would sound like , but certainly the spectra are quite different . phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : could n't you t could n't you , um , test the human performance on just the original audio ? phd d : mm - hmm . this is the one percent number . professor b : yeah , it 's one percent . he 's trying to remove the pitch information phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : oh , oh . ok , phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : i see . professor b : and make it closer to what to what we 're seeing as the feature vectors . phd a : ok . so , y uh , your performance was one percent , and then when you re - synthesize with lpc - twelve it went to five . phd d : uh - huh . yeah . professor b : i mean we were we were j it it it 's a little bit still apples and oranges because we are choosing these features in order to be the best for recognition . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : and , um , i if you listen to them they still might not be very even if you made something closer to what we 're gon na i it might not sound very good . phd d : yeah . professor b : uh , and i the degradation from that might might actually make it even harder , uh , to understand than the lpc - twelve . so all i 'm saying is that the lpc - twelve puts in synthesis puts in some degradation that 's not what we 're used to hearing , phd d : uh - huh . professor b : and is , um it 's not it 's not just a question of how much information is there , as if you will always take maximum advantage of any information that 's presented to you . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : in fact , you hear some things better than others . and so it it is n't phd a : but professor b : but , i agree that it says that , uh , the kind of information that we 're feeding it is probably , um , um , a little bit , um , minimal . there 's definitely some things that we 've thrown away . and that 's why i was saying it might be interesting if you an interesting test of this would be if you if you actually put the pitch back in . so , you just extract it from the actual speech and put it back in , and see does that is that does that make the difference ? if that if that takes it down to one percent again , then you 'd say `` ok , it 's it 's in fact having , um , not just the spectral envelope but also the also the the pitch that , uh , { comment } @ @ { comment } has the information that people can use , anyway . `` phd d : uh - huh . mmm . phd a : but from this it 's pretty safe to say that the system is with either two to seven percent away from the performance of a human . right ? so it 's somewhere in that range . professor b : well , or it 's it 's phd a : two two to six percent . professor b : yeah , so it 's it 's one point four times , uh , to , uh , seven times the error , phd d : to f seven times , yeah . professor b : for stephane . so , uh uh , but i i do n't know . i do do n't wan na take you away from other things . phd d : but { comment } but professor b : but that 's that 's what that 's the first thing that i would be curious about , is , you know , i i when you we phd d : but the signal itself is like a mix of um , of a a periodic sound and , @ @ { comment } uh , unvoiced sound , and the noise professor b : mm - hmm . phd d : which is mostly , uh , noise . i mean not periodic . so , what what do you mean exactly by putting back the pitch in ? because phd a : in the lpc synthesis ? i think professor b : yeah . you did lpc re - synthesis l pc re - synthesis . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : so , uh and you did it with a noise source , rather than with with a s periodic source . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : right ? so if you actually did real re - synthesis like you do in an lpc synthesizer , where it 's unvoiced you use noise , where it 's voiced you use , uh , periodic pulses . right ? phd d : yeah , but it 's neither purely voiced or purely unvoiced . esp - especially because there is noise . professor b : well , it might be hard to do it phd d : so professor b : but it but but the thing is that if you um , if you detect that there 's periodic s strong periodic components , then you can use a voiced voice thing . phd d : oh . uh - huh . yeah . professor b : yeah . i mean , it 's probably not worth your time . it 's it 's a side thing and and and there 's a lot to do . phd d : uh - huh , yeah . professor b : but i 'm i 'm just saying , at least as a thought experiment , that 's what i would wan na test . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : uh , i wan would wan na drive it with a a a two - source system rather than a than a one - source system . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : and then that would tell you whether in fact it 's cuz we 've talked about , like , this harmonic tunneling or other things that people have done based on pitch , maybe that 's really a key element . maybe maybe , uh , uh , without that , it 's it 's not possible to do a whole lot better than we 're doing . that that could be . phd d : yeah . that 's what i was thinking by doing this es experiment , professor b : yeah . phd d : like mmm . evi professor b : but , i mean , other than that , i do n't think it 's i mean , other than the pitch de information , it 's hard to imagine that there 's a whole lot more in the signal that that , uh that we 're throwing away that 's important . phd d : yeah , but yeah . mm - hmm . yeah , right . professor b : right ? i mean , we 're using a fair number of filters in the filter bank and uh phd d : mm - hmm . uh , yeah . professor b : hmm . yeah . yeah . that look phd d : yeah , that 's it . professor b : yeah . that 's that 's i mean , one one percent is sort of what i would i would figure . if somebody was paying really close attention , you might get i would actually think that if , you looked at people on various times of the day and different amounts of attention , you might actually get up to three or four percent error on digits . uh , uh phd d : mm - hmm . um . professor b : so it 's you know , we 're not we 're not incredibly far off . on the other hand , with any of these numbers except maybe the one percent , it 's st it 's not actually usable in a commercial system with a full telephone number or something . phd d : uh - huh . yeah . at these noise levels . professor b : yeah . phd d : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : right . phd d : well , yeah . these numbers , i mean . mmm . professor b : good . um , while we 're still on aurora stuff maybe you can talk a little about the status with the , uh , wall street journal things for it . phd a : so i 've , um , downloaded , uh , a couple of things from mississippi state . um , one is their software their , uh , lvcsr system . downloaded the latest version of that . got it compiled and everything . um , downloaded the scripts . they wrote some scripts that sort of make it easy to run the system on the wall street journal , uh , data . um , so i have n't run the scripts yet . uh , i 'm waiting there was one problem with part of it and i wrote a note to joe asking him about it . so i 'm waiting to hear from him . but , um , i did print something out just to give you an idea about where the system is . uh , they on their web site they , uh , did this little table of where their system performs relative to other systems that have done this this task . and , um , the mississippi state system using a bigram grammar , uh , is at about eight point two percent . other comparable systems from , uh were getting from , uh , like six point nine , six point eight percent . so they 're professor b : this is on clean test set ? phd a : this is on clean on clean stuff . yeah . they they 've started a table where they 're showing their results on various different noise conditions but they they do n't have a whole lot of it filled in and and i did n't notice until after i 'd printed it out that , um , they do n't say here what these different testing conditions are . you actually have to click on it on the web site to see them . so i i do n't know what those numbers really mean . professor b : what kind of numbers are they getting on these on the test conditions ? phd a : well , see , i was a little confused because on this table , i 'm the they 're showing word error rate . but on this one , i i do n't know if these are word error rates because they 're really big . so , under condition one here it 's ten percent . then under three it goes to sixty - four point six percent . professor b : yeah , that 's probably aurora . phd a : yeah . professor b : i mean phd a : so m i guess maybe they 're error rates but they 're , uh they 're really high . professor b : i i i do n't find that surpri phd a : so professor b : i mean , we w what 's what 's some of the lower error rates on on on uh , some of the higher error rates on , uh , some of these w uh , uh , highly mismatched difficult conditions ? what 's a ? phd d : uh . yeah , it 's around fifteen to twenty percent . phd a : correct ? phd d : and the baseline , eh phd a : accuracy ? phd d : uh , error rate . professor b : yeah . phd d : twenty percent error rate , professor b : yeah . so twenty percent error rate on digits . phd d : and phd a : oh , oh , on digits . professor b : so if you 're doing so if you 're doing , phd d : and phd a : yeah . phd d : on digits . professor b : you know , phd d : and this is so so still the baseline . professor b : sixty - thousand phd d : right ? phd a : yeah . professor b : yeah , and if you 're saying sixty - thousand word recognition , getting sixty percent error on some of these noise condition not at all surprising . phd a : yeah . phd d : the baseline is sixty percent also on digits , phd a : oh , is it ? phd d : on the m more mismatched conditions . professor b : yeah . phd a : so , yeah , that 's probably what it is then . yeah . so they have a lot of different conditions that they 're gon na be filling out . professor b : it 's a bad sign when you looking at the numbers , you ca n't tell whether it 's accuracy or error rate . phd a : yeah . yeah . it 's it 's gon na be hard . um , they 're i i 'm still waiting for them to release the , um , multi - cpu version of their scripts , cuz right now their script only handles processing on a single cpu , which will take a really long time to run . so . but their s professor b : this is for the training ? phd a : uh i beli yes , for the training also . and , um , they 're supposed to be coming out with it any time , the multi - cpu one . so , as soon as they get that , then i 'll i 'll grab those too and so w professor b : yeah . cuz we have to get started , phd a : yeah . professor b : cuz it 's cuz , uh , phd a : yeah . i 'll go ahead and try to run it though with just the single cpu one , professor b : if the phd a : and i they they , um , released like a smaller data set that you can use that only takes like sixteen hours to train and stuff . so i can i can run it on that just to make sure that the the thing works and everything . professor b : oh ! good . yeah . cuz we 'll i guess the actual evaluation will be in six weeks or something . so . is that about right you think ? phd d : uh , we do n't know yet , i i think . professor b : really , we do n't know ? phd d : uh - huh . um . phd a : it was n't on the conference call this morning ? hmm . did they say anything on the conference call about , um , how the wall street journal part of the test was going to be run ? because i i thought i remembered hearing that some sites were saying that they did n't have the compute to be able to run the wall street journal stuff at their place , phd d : no . mmm . phd a : so there was some talk about having mississippi state run the systems for them . and i did did that come up at all ? phd d : uh , no . well , this first , this was not the point at all of this the meeting today phd a : oh , ok . phd d : uh , frankly , i do n't know because i d { comment } did n't read also the most recent mails about the large - vocabulary task . but , uh , did you do you still , uh , get the mails ? you 're not on the mailing list or what ? phd a : hmm - mm . the only , um , mail i get is from mississippi state phd d : uh - huh . phd a : so phd d : oh , yeah . so we should have a look at this . phd a : about their system . i i do n't get any mail about professor b : i have to say , there 's uh something funny - sounding about saying that one of these big companies does n't have enough cup compute power do that , so they 're having to have it done by mississippi state . phd a : yeah . professor b : it just just sounds funny . phd a : yeah . it does . yeah . i 'm i 'm wondering about that professor b : anyway . phd a : because there 's this whole issue about , you know , simple tuning parameters , like word insertion penalties . phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : and whether or not those are going to be tuned or not , and { comment } so . phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : i mean , it makes a big difference . if you change your front - end , you know , the scale is completely can be completely different , so . it seems reasonable that that at least should be tweaked to match the front - end . but phd d : you did n't get any answer from joe ? phd a : i did , but joe said , you know , `` what you 're saying makes sense phd d : uh - huh . phd a : and i do n't know `` . so he does n't know what the answer is . phd d : uh - huh . phd a : i mean , that 's th we had this back and forth a little bit about , you know , are sites gon na are you gon na run this data for different sites ? and , well , if if mississippi state runs it , then maybe they 'll do a little optimization on that parameter , and , uh but then he was n't asked to run it for anybody . so i it 's it 's just not clear yet what 's gon na happen . phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : uh , he 's been putting this stuff out on their web site and for people to grab but i have n't heard too much about what 's happening . professor b : so it could be i mean , chuck and i had actually talked about this a couple times , and and over some lunches , i think , that , um , one thing that we might wan na do the - there 's this question about , you know , what do you wan na scale ? suppose y you ca n't adjust these word insertion penalties and so forth , so you have to do everything at the level of the features . what could you do ? and , uh , one thing i had suggested at an earlier time was maybe some sort of scaling , some sort of root or or something of the , um , uh , features . but the problem with that is that is n't quite the same , it occurred to me later , because what you really want to do is scale the , uh , @ @ { comment } the range of the likelihoods rather than phd d : nnn , the dist yeah . professor b : but , what might get at something similar , it just occurred to me , is kind of an intermediate thing is because we do this strange thing that we do with the tandem system , at least in that system what you could do is take the , um , uh , values that come out of the net , which are something like log probabilities , and scale those . and then , uh , um then at least those things would have the right values or the right the right range . and then that goes into the rest of it and then that 's used as observations . so it 's it 's , um , another way to do it . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . but , these values are not directly used as probabilities anyway . professor b : i know they 're not . phd d : so there are there is professor b : i know they 're not . but but , you know so because what we 're doing is pretty strange and complicated , we do n't really know what the effect is at the other end . phd d : uh - huh . mm - hmm . professor b : so , um , my thought was maybe i mean , they 're not used as probabilities , but the log probabilities we 're taking advantage of the fact that something like log probabilities has more of a gaussian shape than gaus - than probabilities , and so we can model them better . so , in a way we 're taking advantage of the fact that they 're probabilities , because they 're this quantity that looks kind of gaussian when you take it 's log . so , { comment } uh , maybe maybe it would have a a reasonable effect to do that . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : i d i do n't know . but , i mean , i guess we still have n't had a a ruling back on this . and we may end up being in a situation where we just you know really ca n't change the word insertion penalty . but the other thing we could do is also we could i mean , this this may not help us , uh , in the evaluation but it might help us in our understanding at least . we might , just run it with different insper insertion penalties , and show that , uh , `` well , ok , not changing it , playing the rules the way you wanted , we did this . but in fact if we did that , it made a a big difference . `` phd a : i wonder if it it might be possible to , uh , simulate the back - end with some other system . so we we get our f front - end features , and then , uh , as part of the process of figuring out the scaling of these features , { comment } you know , if we 're gon na take it to a root or to a power or something , { comment } we have some back - end that we attach onto our features that sort of simulates what would be happening . professor b : mm - hmm . and just adjust it until it 's the best number ? phd a : and just adjust it until that our l version of the back - end , uh , decides that that professor b : well , we can probably use the real thing , ca n't we ? and then jus just , uh , use it on a reduced test set or something . phd a : yeah . oh , yeah . that 's true . professor b : yeah . phd a : and then we just use that to determine some scaling factor that we use . professor b : yeah . so i mean , i i think that that 's a reasonable thing to do and the only question is what 's the actual knob that we use ? phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : and the knob that we use should uh , uh , unfortunately , like i say , i do n't know the analytic solution to this cuz what we really want to do is change the scale of the likelihoods , phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : not the cha not the scale of the the observations . but but , uh phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : yeah . grad e : out of curiosity , what what kind of recognizer is the one from mississippi state ? phd a : uh , w what do you mean when you say `` what kind `` ? grad e : is it ? um , is it like a gaussian mixture model ? phd a : yeah . gaussian mixture model . it 's the same system that they use when they participate in the hub - five evals . it 's a , um sort of came out of , uh uh , looking a lot like htk . i mean , they started off with um , when they were building their system they were always comparing to htk to make sure they were getting similar results . and so , it 's a gaussian mixture system , uh professor b : do they have the same sort of mix - down sort of procedure , where they start off with a small number of some things phd a : i do n't know . yeah . and then divide the mixtures in half . professor b : and ? yeah . phd a : i do n't know if they do that . i 'm not really sure . professor b : yeah . d do you know what kind of tying they use ? are they they sort of some sort of a bunch of gaussians that they share across everything ? or or if it 's ? phd a : yeah , th i have i i i do n't have it up here but i have a the whole system description , that describes exactly what their system is and i i 'm not sure . but , um it 's some kind of a mixture of gaussians and , uh , clustering and , uh they 're they 're trying to put in sort of all of the standard features that people use nowadays . grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : so the other , uh , aurora thing maybe is i i dunno if any of this is gon na come in in time to be relevant , but , uh , we had talked about , uh , { comment } guenter playing around , uh , uh , over in germany phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : and and , @ @ { comment } uh , possibly coming up with something that would , uh , uh , fit in later . uh , i saw that other mail where he said that he uh , it was n't going to work for him to do cvs . phd d : yeah . yeah . so now he has a version of the software . professor b : so he just has it all sitting there . yeah . phd d : yeah . um mm - hmm . professor b : so if he 'll he might work on improving the noise estimate or on some histogram things , or phd d : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . i just saw the eurospeech we we did n't talk about it at our meeting but i just saw the just read the paper . someone , i forget the name , { comment } and and ney , uh , about histogram equalization ? did you see that one ? phd d : um , it was a poster . or professor b : yeah . i mean , i just read the paper . phd d : yeah . professor b : i did n't see the poster . phd d : yeah . um it was something similar to n on - line normalization finally i mean , in the idea of of normalizing professor b : yeah . but it 's a little more it it 's a little finer , right ? so they had like ten quantiles phd d : yeah . professor b : and and they adjust the distribution . phd d : right . professor b : so you you have the distributions from the training set , and then , uh so this is just a a histogram of of the amplitudes , i guess . right ? and then um , people do this in image processing some . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : you have this kind of of histogram of of levels of brightness or whatever . and and and then , when you get a new new thing that you you want to adjust to be better in some way , you adjust it so that the histogram of the new data looks like the old data . you do this kind of piece - wise linear or , uh , some kind of piece - wise approximation . they did a uh one version that was piece - wise linear and another that had a power law thing between them between the points . and , uh , they said they s they sort of see it in a way as s for the speech case { comment } as being kind of a generalization of spectral subtraction in a way , because , you know , in spectral subtraction you 're trying to get rid of this excess energy . uh , you know , it 's not supposed to be there . uh and , uh , this is sort of adjusting it for for a lot of different levels . and then they have s they have some kind of , uh , a floor or something , so if it gets too low you do n't do n't do it . and they they claimed very nice results , phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : so is this a histogram across different frequency bins ? professor b : and phd a : or ? professor b : um , i think this i you know , i do n't remember that . do you remember ? phd d : i think they have , yeah , different histograms . i uh something like one per frequency band , professor b : one phd a : so , one histogram per frequency bin . professor b : one per critical phd d : or but i did yeah , i guess . phd a : and that 's phd d : but i should read the paper . i just went through the poster quickly , professor b : yeah . and i do n't remember whether it was filter bank things phd d : and i did n't professor b : or whether it was fft bins or phd a : and and that that , um , histogram represents the different energy levels that have been seen at that frequency ? professor b : i do n't remember that . and how often they you 've seen them . yeah . phd a : uh - huh . professor b : yeah . and they do they said that they could do it for the test so you do n't have to change the training . you just do a measurement over the training . and then , uh , for testing , uh , you can do it for one per utterance . even relatively short utterances . and they claim it it works pretty well . phd a : so they , uh is the idea that you you run a test utterance through some histogram generation thing and then you compare the histograms and that tells you what to do to the utterance to make it more like ? professor b : i guess in pri yeah . in principle . phd a : i see . professor b : i did n't read carefully how they actually implemented it , phd a : hmm . yeah . professor b : whether it was some , uh , on - line thing , or whether it was a second pass , or what . but but they that that was sort of the idea . so that that seemed , you know , different . we 're sort of curious about , uh , what are some things that are , u u um , @ @ { comment } conceptually quite different from what we 've done . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : cuz we you know , one thing that w that , uh , stephane and sunil seemed to find , uh , was , you know , they could actually make a unified piece of software that handled a range of different things that people were talking about , and it was really just sort of setting of different constants . and it would turn , you know , one thing into another . it 'd turn wiener filtering into spectral subtraction , or whatever . but there 's other things that we 're not doing . so , we 're not making any use of pitch , uh , uh , which again , might might be important , uh , because the stuff between the harmonics is probably a schmutz . and and the , uh , transcribers will have fun with that . uh and , um , the , uh , stuff at the harmonics is n't so much . and and , uh and we there 's this overall idea of really sort of matching the the hi distributions somehow . uh , not just , um , um not just subtracting off your estimate of the noise . so . so i guess , uh , guenter 's gon na play around with some of these things now over this next period , phd d : uh , i dunno . professor b : or ? phd d : i do n't have feedback from him , but professor b : yeah . phd d : i guess he 's gon na , maybe professor b : well , he 's got it anyway , so he can . phd d : yeah . professor b : so potentially if he came up with something that was useful , like a diff a better noise estimation module or something , he could ship it to you guys u up there phd d : uh - huh . yeah . professor b : we could put it in . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . yeah . so , that 's good . so , why do n't we just , uh , um i think starting starting a w couple weeks from now , especially if you 're not gon na be around for a while , we 'll we 'll be shifting more over to some other other territory . but , uh , uh , { comment } uh , n not not so much in this meeting about aurora , but but , uh , uh , maybe just , uh , quickly today about maybe you could just say a little bit about what you 've been talking about with michael . and and then barry can say something about what { comment } what we 're talking about . grad c : ok . so michael kleinschmidt , who 's a phd student from germany , showed up this week . he 'll be here for about six months . and he 's done some work using an auditory model of , um , human hearing , and using that f uh , to generate speech recognition features . and he did work back in germany with , um , a toy recognition system using , um , isolated digit recognition as the task . it was actually just a single - layer neural network that classified words classified digits , in fact . um , and he tried that on i think on some aurora data and got results that he thought seemed respectable . and he w he 's coming here to u u use it on a uh , a real speech recognition system . so i 'll be working with him on that . and , um , maybe i should say a little more about these features , although i do n't understand them that well . the i think it 's a two - stage idea . and , um , the first stage of these features correspond to what 's called the peripheral auditory system . and i guess that is like a filter bank with a compressive nonlinearity . and i 'm - i 'm not sure what we have @ @ in there that is n't already modeled in something like , um , plp . i should learn more about that . and then the second stage is , um , the most different thing , i think , from what we usually do . it 's , um it computes features which are , um , based on sort of like based on diffe different w um , wavelet basis functions used to analyze the input . so th he uses analysis functions called gabor functions , um , which have a certain extent , um , in time and in frequency . and the idea is these are used to sample , um , the signal in a represented as a time - frequency representation . so you 're sampling some piece of this time - frequency plane . and , um , that , um , is is interesting , cuz , @ @ for for one thing , you could use it , um , in a a multi - scale way . you could have these instead of having everything like we use a twenty - five millisecond or so analysis window , typically , um , and that 's our time scale for features , but you could using this , um , basis function idea , you could have some basis functions which have a lot longer time scale and , um , some which have a lot shorter , and so it would be like a set of multi - scale features . so he 's interested in , um th - this is because it 's , um there are these different parameters for the shape of these basis functions , um there are a lot of different possible basis functions . and so he he actually does an optimization procedure to choose an an optimal set of basis functions out of all the possible ones . phd a : hmm . h what does he do to choose those ? grad c : the method he uses is kind of funny is , { comment } um , he starts with he has a set of m of them . um , he and then he uses that to classify i mean , he t he tries , um , using just m minus one of them . so there are m possible subsets of this length - m vector . he tries classifying , using each of the m possible sub - vectors . whichever sub - vector , um , works the the best , i guess , he says the the fe feature that did n't use was the most useless feature , professor b : y yeah . gets thrown out . yeah . grad c : so we 'll throw it out and we 're gon na randomly select another feature from the set of possible basis functions . professor b : yeah . phd a : so it 's a professor b : so i so it 's actuall phd a : it 's a little bit like a genetic algorithm or something in a way . professor b : well , it 's it 's much simpler . grad e : it 's like a greedy professor b : but it 's but it 's uh , it 's there 's a lot number of things i like about it , let me just say . phd a : greedy . professor b : so , first thing , well , you 're absolutely right . i mean , i i in truth , both pieces of this are have their analogies in stuff we already do . but it 's a different take at how to approach it and potentially one that 's m maybe a bit more systematic than what we 've done , uh , and a b a bit more inspiration from from auditory things . so it 's so i think it 's a neat thing to try . the primary features , um , are in fact yeah , essentially , it 's it 's , uh , you know , plp or or mel cepstrum , or something like that . you 've you 've got some , uh , compression . we always have some compression . we always have some you know , the the the kind of filter bank with a kind of quasi - log scaling . um , if you put in if you also include the rasta in it i rasta the filtering being done in the log domain has an agc - like , uh , characteristic , which , you know , people typi typically put in these kind of , uh , um , uh , auditory front - ends . so it 's very , very similar , uh , but it 's not exactly the same . um , i would agree that the second one is is somewhat more different but , um , it 's mainly different in that the things that we have been doing like that have been um , had a different kind of motivation and have ended up with different kinds of constraints . so , for instance , if you look at the lda rasta stuff , you know , basically what they do is they they look at the different eigenvectors out of the lda and they form filters out of it . right ? and those filters have different , uh , kinds of temporal extents and temporal characteristics . and so in fact they 're multi - scale . but , they 're not sort of systematically multi - scale , like `` let 's start here and go to there , and go to there , and go to there `` , and so forth . it 's more like , you run it on this , you do discriminant analysis , and you find out what 's helpful . grad c : i it 's multi - scale because you use several of these in parallel , professor b : yeah . they use several of them . grad c : is that right ? of professor b : yeah . uh , i mean , you do n't have to but but but , uh , hynek has . um , but it 's also , uh hyn - when hynek 's had people do this kind of lda analysis , they 've done it on frequency direction and they 've done it on the time direction . i think he may have had people sometimes doing it on both simultaneously some two - d and that would be the closest to these gabor function kind of things . uh , but i do n't think they 've done that much of that . and , uh , the other thing that 's interesting the the , uh the feature selection thing , it 's a simple method , but i kinda like it . um , there 's a a old , old method for feature selection . i mean , eh , uh , i remember people referring to it as old when i was playing with it twenty years ago , so i know it 's pretty old , uh , called stepwise linear discriminant analysis in which you which i think it 's used in social sciences a lot . so , you you you you pick the best feature . and then you take y you find the next feature that 's the best in combination with it . and then so on and so on . and what what michael 's describing seems to me much , much better , because the problem with the stepwise discriminant analysis is that you do n't know that you know , if you 've picked the right set of features . just because something 's a good feature does n't mean that you should be adding it . so , um , uh , here at least you 're starting off with all of them , and you 're throwing out useless features . i think that 's that seems , uh that seems like a lot better idea . uh , you 're always looking at things in combination with other features . um , so the only thing is , of course , there 's this this artificial question of of , uh , exactly how you how you a how you assess it and if if your order had been different in throwing them out . i mean , it still is n't necessarily really optimal , but it seems like a pretty good heuristic . so i th i think it 's it 's i think it 's kinda neat stuff . and and and , uh , the thing that i wanted to to add to it also was to have us use this in a multi - stream way . um , so so that , um , when you come up with these different things , and these different functions , you do n't necessarily just put them all into one huge vector , but perhaps you have some of them in one stream and some of them in another stream , and so forth . and , um , um , { comment } um and we 've also talked a little bit about , uh , uh , shihab shamma 's stuff , in which you the way you look at it is that there 's these different mappings and some of them emphasize , uh , upward moving , uh , energy and fre and frequency . and some are emphasizing downward and fast things and slow things and and so forth . so . so there 's a bunch of stuff to look at . but , uh , i think we 're sorta gon na start off with what he , uh , came here with and branch out branch out from there . and his advisor is here , too , at the same time . so , he 'll be another interesting source of wisdom . grad e : as as we were talking about this i was thinking , um , whether there 's a relationship between um , between michael 's approach to , uh , some some sort of optimal brain damage or optimal brain surgeon on the neural nets . professor b : yeah . grad e : so , like , if we have , um we have our we have our rasta features and and presumably the neural nets are are learning some sort of a nonlinear mapping , uh , from the the the features to to this this probability posterior space . professor b : mm - hmm . grad e : right ? and , um and each of the hidden units is learning some sort of some sort of some sort of pattern . right ? and it could be , like like these , um these auditory patterns that michael is looking at . and then when you 're looking at the the , uh , um , the best features , you know , you can take out you can do the do this , uh , brain surgery by taking out , um , hidden units that do n't really help at all . professor b : mm - hmm . or the or features . grad e : and this is k sorta like professor b : right ? grad e : yeah . professor b : i mean , y actually , you make me think a a very important point here is that , um , if we a again try to look at how is this different from what we 're already doing , uh , there 's a a , uh a nasty argument that could be made th that it 's it 's not different at at all , because , uh if you ignore the the selection part because we are going into a a very powerful , uh , nonlinearity that , uh , in fact is combining over time and frequency , and is coming up with its own you know , better than gabor functions its , you know , neural net functions , grad e : mm - hmm . professor b : its { comment } whatever it finds to be best . um , so you could argue that in fact it but i i do n't actually believe that argument because i know that , um , you can , uh computing features is useful , even though in principle you have n't added anything in fact , you subtracted something , from the original waveform you know , uh , if you 've you 've processed it in some way you 've typically lost something some information . and so , you 've lost information and yet it does better with with features than it does with the waveform . so , uh , i i know that i sometimes it 's useful to to constrain things . so that 's why it really seems like the constraint in in all this stuff it 's the constraints that are actually what matters . because if it was n't the constraints that mattered , then we would 've completely solved this problem long ago , because long ago we already knew how to put waveforms into powerful statistical mechanisms . so . phd d : yeah . well , if we had infinite processing power and data , { comment } i guess , using the waveform could grad e : right . professor b : yeah uh , then it would work . yeah , i agree . yeah . there 's the problem . phd d : so , that 's professor b : yeah . then it would work . but but , i mean , i it 's with finite of those things i mean , uh , we we have done experiments where we literally have put waveforms in and and and , uh , phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : we kept the number of parameters the same and so forth , and it used a lot of training data . and it and it it , uh not infinite but a lot , and then compared to the number parameters and it it , uh it just does n't do nearly as well . so , anyway the point is that you want to suppress phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : it 's not just having the maximum information , you want to suppress , uh , the aspects of the input signal that are not helpful for for the discrimination you 're trying to make . so . so maybe just briefly , uh grad e : well , that sort of segues into what what i 'm doing . professor b : yeah . grad e : um , so , uh , the big picture is k um , come up with a set of , uh , intermediate categories , then build intermediate category classifiers , then do recognition , and , um , improve speech recognition in that way . um , so right now i 'm in in the phase where i 'm looking at at , um , deciding on a initial set of intermediate categories . and i 'm looking for data data - driven methods that can help me find , um , a set of intermediate categories of speech that , uh , will help me to discriminate later down the line . and one of the ideas , um , that was to take a take a neural net train train an ordinary neural net to uh , to learn the posterior probabilities of phones . and so , um , at the end of the day you have this neural net and it has hidden hidden units . and each of these hidden units is um , is learning some sort of pattern . and so , um , what what are these patterns ? i do n't know . um , and i 'm gon na to try to to look at those patterns to to see , um , from those patterns uh , presumably those are important patterns for discriminating between phone classes . and maybe maybe some , uh , intermediate categories can come from just looking at the patterns of um , that the neural net learns . professor b : be - before you get on the next part l let me just point out that s there 's there 's a a pretty nice { comment } relationship between what you 're talking about doing and what you 're talking about doing there . right ? grad e : yeah . professor b : so , it seems to me that , you know , if you take away the the the difference of this primary features , and , say , you use as we had talked about maybe doing you use p - rasta - plp or something for the the primary features , um , then this feature discovery , uh , uh , thing is just what he 's talking about doing , too , except that he 's talking about doing them in order to discover intermediate categories that correspond to these uh , uh , what these sub - features are are are are showing you . and , um , the other difference is that , um , he 's doing this in a in a multi - band setting , which means that he 's constraining himself to look across time in some f relatively limited , uh , uh , spectral extent . right ? and whereas in in this case you 're saying `` let 's just do it unconstrained `` . so they 're they 're really pretty related and maybe they 'll be at some point where we 'll see the the connections a little better and connect them . grad e : mm - hmm . um . yeah , so so that 's the that 's the first part uh , one one of the ideas to get at some some patterns of intermediate categories . um , the other one was , um , to , uh , come up with a a a model { comment } um , a graphical model , that treats the intermediate categories as hidden hidden variables , latent variables , that we do n't know anything about , but that through , um , s statistical training and the em algorithm , um , at the end of the day , we have , um we have learned something about these these latent , um latent variables which happen to correspond to intermediate categories . um . yeah , and so those are the the two directions that i 'm i 'm looking into right now . and , uh , um yeah . i guess that 's that 's it . professor b : ok . should we do our digits and get ou get our treats ? grad e : oh , tea time ? professor b : yeah . it 's kind of like , you know , the little rats with the little thing dropping down to them . phd a : that 's ri professor b : we do the digits and then we get our treats . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on lpc </s> professor b : so this is a particular human . this is this i this is stephane . phd d : yeah . so that 's that 's grad e : st - stephane . professor b : yeah . phd d : that 's the the flaw of the experiment . this is just i j { comment } it 's just one subject , professor b : yeah . grad e : getting close . phd d : but but still , uh , what happens is is that , uh , the digit error rate on this is around one percent , professor b : yeah . phd d : while our system is currently at seven percent . um , but what happens also is that if i listen to the , um a re - synthesized version of the speech and i re - synthesized this using a white noise that 's filtered by a lpc , uh , filter professor b : yeah . phd d : um , well , you can argue , that , uh that this is not speech , professor b : yeah . phd d : so the ear is not trained to recognize this . but s actually it sound like whispering , so we are professor b : well , i mean , it 's phd d : eh professor b : there 's two problems there . i mean i mean , so so the first is that by doing lpc - twelve with synthesized speech w like you 're saying , uh , it 's i i you 're you 're adding other degradation . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about lpc ? </s> professor b : right ? so it 's not just the noise but you 're adding in fact some degradation because it 's only an approximation . um , and the second thing is which is m maybe more interesting is that , um , { comment } if you do it with whispered speech , you get this number . what if you had done analysis { comment } re - synthesis and taken the pitch as well ? alright ? so now you put the pitch in . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : what would the percentage be then ? phd d : um professor b : see , that 's the question . so , you see , if it 's if it 's if it 's , uh let 's say it 's back down to one percent again . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : that would say at least for people , having the pitch is really , really important , which would be interesting in itself . um , phd d : uh , yeah . but professor b : if i on the other hand , if it stayed up near five percent , then i 'd say `` boy , lpc n twelve is pretty crummy `` . you know ? phd d : uh - huh . professor b : so i i i 'm not sure i 'm not sure how we can conclude from this anything about that our system is close to the human performance . phd d : ye yeah . well , the point is that eh l ey the point is that , um , what i what i listened to when i re - synthesized the lp - the lpc - twelve spectrum is in a way what the system , uh , is hearing , cuz @ @ all the all the , um , excitation all the well , the excitation is is not taken into account . that 's what we do with our system . and professor b : well , you 're not doing the lpc phd d : in this case professor b : i mean , so so what if you did a phd d : well , it 's not lpc , sure , professor b : what if you did lpc - twenty ? phd d : but lpc ? professor b : twenty . right ? i mean , th the thing is lpc is not a a really great representation of speech . phd d : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : so , all i 'm saying is that you have in addition to the w the , uh , removal of pitch , you also are doing , uh , a particular parameterization , phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : which , um , uh uh , so , let 's see , how would you do ? so , fo phd d : but that 's that 's what we do with our systems . and professor b : no . actually , we d we we do n't , because we do we do , uh , uh , mel filter bank , for instance . right ? phd d : yeah , but is it that is it that different , i mean ? professor b : um , i do n't know what mel , uh , based synthesis would sound like , but certainly the spectra are quite different . phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : could n't you t could n't you , um , test the human performance on just the original audio ? phd d : mm - hmm . this is the one percent number . professor b : yeah , it 's one percent . he 's trying to remove the pitch information phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : oh , oh . ok , phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : i see . professor b : and make it closer to what to what we 're seeing as the feature vectors . phd a : ok . so , y uh , your performance was one percent , and then when you re - synthesize with lpc - twelve it went to five . phd d : uh - huh . yeah . professor b : i mean we were we were j it it it 's a little bit still apples and oranges because we are choosing these features in order to be the best for recognition . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : and , um , i if you listen to them they still might not be very even if you made something closer to what we 're gon na i it might not sound very good . phd d : yeah . professor b : uh , and i the degradation from that might might actually make it even harder , uh , to understand than the lpc - twelve . so all i 'm saying is that the lpc - twelve puts in synthesis puts in some degradation that 's not what we 're used to hearing , phd d : uh - huh . professor b : and is , um it 's not it 's not just a question of how much information is there , as if you will always take maximum advantage of any information that 's presented to you . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : in fact , you hear some things better than others . and so it it is n't phd a : but professor b : but , i agree that it says that , uh , the kind of information that we 're feeding it is probably , um , um , a little bit , um , minimal . there 's definitely some things that we 've thrown away . and that 's why i was saying it might be interesting if you an interesting test of this would be if you if you actually put the pitch back in . so , you just extract it from the actual speech and put it back in , and see does that is that does that make the difference ? if that if that takes it down to one percent again , then you 'd say `` ok , it 's it 's in fact having , um , not just the spectral envelope but also the also the the pitch that , uh , { comment } @ @ { comment } has the information that people can use , anyway . `` </s>
<s> what did phd d think about lpc ? </s> phd d : while our system is currently at seven percent . um , but what happens also is that if i listen to the , um a re - synthesized version of the speech and i re - synthesized this using a white noise that 's filtered by a lpc , uh , filter professor b : yeah . phd d : um , well , you can argue , that , uh that this is not speech , professor b : yeah . phd d : so the ear is not trained to recognize this . but s actually it sound like whispering , so we are professor b : well , i mean , it 's phd d : eh professor b : there 's two problems there . i mean i mean , so so the first is that by doing lpc - twelve with synthesized speech w like you 're saying , uh , it 's i i you 're you 're adding other degradation . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : right ? so it 's not just the noise but you 're adding in fact some degradation because it 's only an approximation . um , and the second thing is which is m maybe more interesting is that , um , { comment } if you do it with whispered speech , you get this number . what if you had done analysis { comment } re - synthesis and taken the pitch as well ? alright ? so now you put the pitch in . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : what would the percentage be then ? phd d : um professor b : see , that 's the question . so , you see , if it 's if it 's if it 's , uh let 's say it 's back down to one percent again . phd d : uh - huh . professor b : that would say at least for people , having the pitch is really , really important , which would be interesting in itself . um , phd d : uh , yeah . but professor b : if i on the other hand , if it stayed up near five percent , then i 'd say `` boy , lpc n twelve is pretty crummy `` . you know ? phd d : uh - huh . professor b : so i i i 'm not sure i 'm not sure how we can conclude from this anything about that our system is close to the human performance . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on histogram equalization </s> professor b : so the other , uh , aurora thing maybe is i i dunno if any of this is gon na come in in time to be relevant , but , uh , we had talked about , uh , { comment } guenter playing around , uh , uh , over in germany phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : and and , @ @ { comment } uh , possibly coming up with something that would , uh , uh , fit in later . uh , i saw that other mail where he said that he uh , it was n't going to work for him to do cvs . phd d : yeah . yeah . so now he has a version of the software . professor b : so he just has it all sitting there . yeah . phd d : yeah . um mm - hmm . professor b : so if he 'll he might work on improving the noise estimate or on some histogram things , or phd d : yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . i just saw the eurospeech we we did n't talk about it at our meeting but i just saw the just read the paper . someone , i forget the name , { comment } and and ney , uh , about histogram equalization ? did you see that one ? phd d : um , it was a poster . or professor b : yeah . i mean , i just read the paper . phd d : yeah . professor b : i did n't see the poster . phd d : yeah . um it was something similar to n on - line normalization finally i mean , in the idea of of normalizing professor b : yeah . but it 's a little more it it 's a little finer , right ? so they had like ten quantiles phd d : yeah . professor b : and and they adjust the distribution . phd d : right . professor b : so you you have the distributions from the training set , and then , uh so this is just a a histogram of of the amplitudes , i guess . right ? and then um , people do this in image processing some . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : you have this kind of of histogram of of levels of brightness or whatever . and and and then , when you get a new new thing that you you want to adjust to be better in some way , you adjust it so that the histogram of the new data looks like the old data . you do this kind of piece - wise linear or , uh , some kind of piece - wise approximation . they did a uh one version that was piece - wise linear and another that had a power law thing between them between the points . and , uh , they said they s they sort of see it in a way as s for the speech case { comment } as being kind of a generalization of spectral subtraction in a way , because , you know , in spectral subtraction you 're trying to get rid of this excess energy . uh , you know , it 's not supposed to be there . uh and , uh , this is sort of adjusting it for for a lot of different levels . and then they have s they have some kind of , uh , a floor or something , </s>
<s> what did phd d think about the paper ? </s> phd d : yeah . um it was something similar to n on - line normalization finally i mean , in the idea of of normalizing professor b : yeah . but it 's a little more it it 's a little finer , right ? so they had like ten quantiles phd d : yeah . professor b : and and they adjust the distribution . phd d : right . professor b : so you you have the distributions from the training set , and then , uh so this is just a a histogram of of the amplitudes , i guess . right ? and then um , people do this in image processing some . phd d : mm - hmm . professor b : you have this kind of of histogram of of levels of brightness or whatever . and and and then , when you get a new new thing that you you want to adjust to be better in some way , you adjust it so that the histogram of the new data looks like the old data . you do this kind of piece - wise linear or , uh , some kind of piece - wise approximation . they did a uh one version that was piece - wise linear and another that had a power law thing between them between the points . and , uh , they said they s they sort of see it in a way as s for the speech case { comment } as being kind of a generalization of spectral subtraction in a way , because , you know , in spectral subtraction you 're trying to get rid of this excess energy . uh , you know , it 's not supposed to be there . uh and , uh , this is sort of adjusting it for for a lot of different levels . and then they have s they have some kind of , uh , a floor or something , so if it gets too low you do n't do n't do it . and they they claimed very nice results , phd d : mm - hmm . phd a : so is this a histogram across different frequency bins ? professor b : and phd a : or ? professor b : um , i think this i you know , i do n't remember that . do you remember ? phd d : i think they have , yeah , different histograms . i uh something like one per frequency band , professor b : one phd a : so , one histogram per frequency bin . professor b : one per critical phd d : or but i did yeah , i guess . phd a : and that 's </s>
<s> what did phd a think about histogram equalization ? </s> phd a : so is this a histogram across different frequency bins ? professor b : and phd a : or ? professor b : um , i think this i you know , i do n't remember that . do you remember ? phd d : i think they have , yeah , different histograms . i uh something like one per frequency band , professor b : one phd a : so , one histogram per frequency bin . professor b : one per critical phd d : or but i did yeah , i guess . phd a : and that 's phd d : but i should read the paper . i just went through the poster quickly , professor b : yeah . and i do n't remember whether it was filter bank things phd d : and i did n't professor b : or whether it was fft bins or phd a : and and that that , um , histogram represents the different energy levels that have been seen at that frequency ? professor b : i do n't remember that . and how often they you 've seen them . yeah . phd a : uh - huh . professor b : yeah . and they do they said that they could do it for the test so you do n't have to change the training . you just do a measurement over the training . and then , uh , for testing , uh , you can do it for one per utterance . even relatively short utterances . and they claim it it works pretty well . phd a : so they , uh is the idea that you you run a test utterance through some histogram generation thing and then you compare the histograms and that tells you what to do to the utterance to make it more like ? professor b : i guess in pri yeah . in principle . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay we all all set ? right . well this is the uh final detailed design meeting . um we 're gon na discuss the look and feel design , the user interface design , and we 're gon na evaluate the product . and the end result of this meeting has to be a decision on the details of this remote control , like absolute final decision , um and then i 'm gon na have to specify the final design in the final report . so um just from from last time to recap , we said we were gon na have a snowman shaped remote control with no lcd display , no need for talk-back , it was hopefully gon na be kinetic power and battery uh with rubber buttons , maybe backlighting the buttons with some internal l_e_d_s to shine through the casing , um hopefully a jog-dial , and incorporating the slogan somewhere as well . anything i 've missed ? okay um so uh if you want to present your prototype go ahead . user interface : uh-oh . this is it ? industrial designer : ninja homer , made in japan . user interface : um , there are a few changes we 've made . project manager : okay . user interface : um , well look at the expense sheet , and uh it turned to be quite a lot expensive to have open up and have lots of buttons and stuff inside , project manager : mm . mm-hmm . user interface : so instead we 've um this is gon na be an lcd screen , um just a a very very basic one , very small um with access to the menu through the the scroll wheel and uh confirm um button . marketing : mm 'kay . user interface : uh , apart from that , it 's just pretty much the same as we discussed last time . industrial designer : and there is n't uh d it does n't open up to the advanced functions ? the advanced functions are still hidden from you , but they 're hidden in the sense that um they 're not in use . marketing : where are they ? industrial designer : um they 're in the lcd panel and the jog-dial ? marketing : ah , right . industrial designer : okay 'cause project manager : so w what kind of thing uh is gon na be marketing : great . user interface : industrial designer : the lcd panel just displays um functionally what you 're doing . if you 're using an advanced function right , like um c brightness , contrast , whatever , it will just say marketing : right . okay . industrial designer : you know it 's like it only has four columns , it 's a very simple lcd like , whereas many the minimum amount we need that the user will automatically know like this is brightness or this is contrast . marketing : right . project manager : mm-hmm . okay cool . marketing : right , 'kay . industrial designer : it might even be one , a bit more complex lcd panel with pictures like maybe the sun or the , you know , the the symbols of the various functions . project manager : oh right okay . marketing : mm-hmm , and what is this here ? project manager : cool . industrial designer : that 's a number pad . marketing : okay so the number pad is 'kay , great . project manager : where are we gon na have the slogan ? industrial designer : um they 're al along this user interface : you know , just like right inside there . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay cool . industrial designer : you have this space here , and then you have this thing on the side as well , or at the bottom . project manager : industrial designer : 'cause slogans are usually quite small , right , project manager : okay . industrial designer : they 're not like huge so they 're s say a button 's about project manager : okay . marketing : looks good . industrial designer : say a button 's about this size , right , so you would still have plenty of space for a slogan , say even for that . marketing : yep . mm-hmm . project manager : so if this is n't to scale , what kind of dimensions are you thinking about here ? user interface : well we want the other buttons to be big enough to push easily with a finger project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so we reckon maybe that 'll be about the same size as the palm of your hand . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yep so that would be about a centimetre for a button , so one two three four centimetres . plus maybe half o five marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : six seven eight , marketing : about nine in total . project manager : six , seven , eight , nine , ten . industrial designer : about yeah nine total . project manager : so we 're talking about ten centimetres . marketing : that sounds good . yeah . project manager : that would be good . so ten centimetres in height . industrial designer : nine , ten . yep . project manager : okay um . marketing : that 'd be good , in fact a pen is about ten centimetres usually , so that would be that sounds like a really good size , if you see it there . project manager : yeah . that 's great and it 's very bright as well . so um okay . marketing : mm . is it possible uh i 'm just gon na bring up the idea of colours . is these are these the colours that of production , or is this just what we had available ? user interface : well i 'm we 're gon na have again the the sort of the foggy um yellow from last time that lit up when you pushed the button . marketing : right . project manager : okay so just user interface : um project manager : could you just list all the things that it does s so i can write them in the report . user interface : but um this button um , because it 's red it 's sort of very prominent , we 're gon na use it as uh it can be the power button if you hold it for maybe two seconds it 'll send a stand-by signal . industrial designer : excuse me . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um apart from that it 's gon na be used as a confirm button for the lcd screen industrial designer : sure . project manager : okay . user interface : and you use this as a jog-dial . project manager : okay so that 's like an okay button , right . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh we 've discussed how h high it is , but how wide is it ? user interface : i do n't know . project manager : okay . marketing : how high is it ? industrial designer : no as in the height , but what about the width ? marketing : yeah . user interface : did n't put five centimetres . project manager : like depth of the actual thing . industrial designer : do we need five ? i do n't think five is be about th three and a half . marketing : okay . project manager : oh is this k to get an idea of scale from your from your thing there okay . user interface : something by there . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : sure . project manager : so you can power on and off , what else can you do ? marketing : three and a half . user interface : um you can skip straight to a channel using these buttons . project manager : okay . user interface : um , were gon na have the volume control here , but um because we 've got the the lcd and the jog-dial we just thought we 'd um use that as the volume . project manager : okay jog-dial for volume . and what else do you do with the jog-dial ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : um you can use it for um more advanced functions like contrast , colour and project manager : contrast , brightness , user interface : um yeah . project manager : yeah , and anything else ? user interface : um just whatever else we wanted to include as the advanced functions , um we did n't actually go through and specify the project manager : well of the designers what are they ? user interface : uh what can a tv do ? industrial designer : okay things like um brightness , contrast , project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : um maybe tuning the channels . project manager : okay channel tuning . that 's a good one . industrial designer : what else ? um the various inputs . are you having a v_c_r_ , are you having you know which input do you have ? marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : okay auxiliary inputs . marketing : mm-hmm , probably colour or sharpness . industrial designer : yep , colour , sharpness . um a lot of these things will have to be um free and open for users to define them . project manager : sharpness . okay what about uh sound settings marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : ? uh d can you change any of those at all ? marketing : audio . industrial designer : audio , we have like your basic y your base , your mid-range , your high range . user interface : the the balance hmm . industrial designer : yep , left-right balance , um maybe even pre-programmed sound modes , like um the user could determine like a series of sound modes , project manager : okay . industrial designer : and then what could happen would be um when you click on that then it would go to that setting . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , marketing : mm 'kay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : is there anything else at all it can do ? that 'cause that 's that 's fine . just need to know so i can write it down . okay um right i g i guess that 's it , so we can now um we can now have a little look at the the excel sheet and price listing , and see if we need to um if we need to rethink anything at all . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so um for this first part here power-wise , have we got battery ? industrial designer : the battery . project manager : do we have kinetic as well ? no . okay , just battery . industrial designer : we need an project manager : and that 's because of cost restraints is it ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah advanced chip . project manager : um what about the electronics here ? industrial designer : we need an advanced chip i think , yep . project manager : advanced chip . industrial designer : let me just confirm that . yes i think so . yep . project manager : okay um the case , what does it mean by single and double , do you know ? user interface : um i think single would just be sort of one sort of oval whereas double is this sort of thing . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so we want double-curved ? okay . um . industrial designer : plastic . project manager : is there any rubber at all in the buttons or any industrial designer : i think we 're gon na have to skip the rubber . project manager : okay , um and we wanted special colours did n't we ? so i 'll have to put that oh no wait we ho how many colours have we got there ? industrial designer : for the case itself , one colour . it 's one special colour . project manager : just one colour , okay . industrial designer : 'cause the case unit itself , the rest of our components go on top of it . project manager : okay so interface-wise , is it this third option we have , the two of them there ? industrial designer : yes . one and the l_c_ display . project manager : okay and then buttons , we have what , two colours ? industrial designer : how many user interface : um we have um got some push buttons as well . marketing : or even clear . industrial designer : we 've got push buttons as well . project manager : like uh oh wait so push button and integrated scroll wheel push user interface : 'kay . project manager : okay . user interface : so i reckon we 've got one button for this thing 'cause it 's just one big sheet of rubber . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : i 'm not sure if that counts but industrial designer : okay let 's just be safe and put like say four buttons for that one . project manager : okay . okay . industrial designer : okay um and maybe a special colour for the buttons , so maybe four again . project manager : four . user interface : you can see we 're we 're all very far beyond the project manager : so w why are we arriving at the number four ? where does the number four come from ? industrial designer : 'cause that 's one button by its the complexity of twelve buttons . project manager : okay right , industrial designer : so we 're just estimating that yeah it would be less . project manager : so we 're writing down four . okay . how about these ? are we wanting them in no they 're just is everything gon na be plastic ? okay . so we 're w w quite far over . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : now we 're gon na something 's gon na have to go . um we 're at sixteen point eight and marketing : uh how mm-hmm how are we going to achieve this high-end product if project manager : well we h something has to go to the tune of two point t three euro , marketing : we only have very sparse project manager : so let me see , what are we i mean marketing : two point three ? four point three no ? project manager : oh yes sorry , four point three . my maths is all out . user interface : well we could take out ones by making it single curved , just fill in those bits . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : how much would that save us ? marketing : and then where is the project manager : how much would that save us ? industrial designer : that will only save you one . user interface : that is one . industrial designer : the other thing could be that um you could take away the lcd panel and the advanced chip together , um because when you do something on the tv , the tv responds and reacts as well , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so the user could be looking at the tv and pushing his thing so we may not need to user interface : that 's fair enough , yeah . industrial designer : so when we scroll we need just some way to get the tv to respond , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : which i think is a technically doable thing so project manager : okay so marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so w what 's our reviewed suggestion ? marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : um take away the l_c_ display ? industrial designer : yep . and the advanced chip goes away as well . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : to be replaced with a industrial designer : regular chip . project manager : regular chip . industrial designer : yep . so what that means is that um project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and so we 've got point three to get rid of . um and we ha where are the four the four push buttons are where exactly now ? industrial designer : the twelve buttons that you see there . project manager : twelve buttons . user interface : that 's um one piece of rubber but it 's gon na have twelve button things underneath so project manager : yeah . industrial designer : functionally you 're gon na have to intercept so four is a good estimate for project manager : do you think ? industrial designer : yeah , so you ca n't actually cut it 's like three times the number of buttons , four , eight , twelve . project manager : like is is that one big button or is it twelve buttons , industrial designer : it it needs to be more than one big button because if you open up your phone , underneath there 's actually one button underneath , it 's just that the panel itself is a single panel . project manager : how can it be something in between ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm . okay marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well we have point three to get rid of somewhere . industrial designer : we just report that it has to be over budget , marketing : industrial designer : or the colours , you could take away s colours for th for the buttons . project manager : no can do . marketing : yeah we could just go with um user interface : yeah w industrial designer : normal coloured buttons . project manager : well do you want colour differentiation here ? industrial designer : no that 's not the button we 're talking about . user interface : um industrial designer : that 's project manager : oh yeah sorry yeah then . industrial designer : the buttons only refer to the pad so project manager : right so industrial designer : should we take that off uh ? user interface : industrial designer : hey it 's back to the original . project manager : that 's it . industrial designer : um so then these just become normal coloured buttons , so that might be some some way of cutting the cost . marketing : mm-hmm . mm . project manager : okay , ach that 's a shame . um right , so take away that completely ? ah . and now we 're under budget . so we do have point five euro to play with if we wanted . marketing : user interface : so i reckon project manager : um marketing : how about with embossing the logo , is n't that going to cost us some money ? project manager : does n't say so . marketing : yeah . that 's a freebie . user interface : reckon that probably counts as a special form for the buttons . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah that 's a good idea . just one ? does that mean that one button has a special form or user interface : i think there 's just one button so project manager : yeah okay . industrial designer : user interface : handy . project manager : well well there we go . so i 'm just gon na have to redraw this now . so we 're not gon na have the lcd anymore , and we 'll just gon na have an on t on the tv it 'll show you what you 're doing , which i think is fair enough , and so this is gon na be one big thing here . um . marketing : was the goal in your in your prototype design that it be as low profile as possible ? industrial designer : what do you mean by profile ? marketing : sort of flat as possible . user interface : yeah . you see i envision it as being um quite deep marketing : yeah . user interface : sort of deep enough to be comfy to hold in your hands rather than being wide and flat . marketing : yeah that 's what i was thinking , to industrial designer : we did n't have enough play-doh to make it three d_ . marketing : sure , okay . yeah alright yeah fair enough . user interface : marketing : okay , just thought i 'd ask . industrial designer : so there 's one more dimension to the thing which we need to to add , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and you might want to add in the report , length , width , and height . project manager : right okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so just to well to be thorough then , width-wise we 're looking at about what three centimetres or something ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay and then so height-wise how how tall do you envisage it being ? about that big ? user interface : yeah it works , yeah . project manager : about two centimetres , okay . marketing : two 's not very high at all though . industrial designer : this is about this is about two . marketing : maybe a bit higher ? industrial designer : slightly more than two , so marketing : yeah . user interface : see , about that thick . project manager : okay . ach , that is marketing : maybe closer to three even or two and a half . industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah . okay we 'll s we 'll say two point five . okay um so we have it within cost anyway . um so yeah project evaluation is this point . um . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : right uh . okay so can we close that ? this is what it 's the final spec that it 's gon na be . someone is gon na have to marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah that 's fine that 's fine . marketing : um it 's probably just i dunno if it 's worth getting into , but um just in in that we want this to be stylish , should we think a little bit more out of the box in terms of a button grid , because i 've seen there 's lots of devices out there that that instead of taking your standard nine nine square grid , and they have it sort of stylized or in different concept that that industrial designer : i think that 's something that 's very hard to catch , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so you you restrict the number of people who wan na try something . marketing : sure , okay . industrial designer : the the look and the colour is something which is cool , marketing : yeah , alright . industrial designer : but i think that there 's also that factor of if it 's too unfamiliar marketing : okay , sure . industrial designer : then um because when you put it on the shelf marketing : what about button shape ? square buttons ? industrial designer : yeah button shape might be a good idea to change , rather than rather than positioning , marketing : okay . industrial designer : 'cause i think positioning is we 're kinda engrained into the the telephone kind of marketing : yeah . sure . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . right um . so at this point we uh , let me see , discuss uh how satisfied we all are with um with these four points , with the room for creativity in the project , and leadership and teamwork , and the stuff we had around us i guess . marketing : mm 'kay . project manager : um , let me see uh marketing : do you want me to d um do you want me to do my um design evaluation last ? industrial designer : maybe we should do the design evaluation first . project manager : yeah i was n't really sure what that was marketing : or evaluation . project manager : , yeah go for that first . i was n't entirely sure what uh who was supposed to be doing that , marketing : okay . project manager : but y you go for it . marketing : sure . um , alright so the way this works , i 'm gon na need to plug into powerpoint , project manager : okay . marketing : i 'll try and do it as quick as possible . project manager : okay . marketing : um , this is um i 'll just go over your head if that 's okay . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i do n't think you need the power , marketing : industrial designer : so marketing : what 's that ? industrial designer : no , that 's okay that 's okay . marketing : i do n't need the powerpoint ? industrial designer : no , the power cord itself . marketing : oh course , industrial designer : yeah , so then you have a bit more freedom to marketing : yeah that 's true . let me get that . a bit more . project manager : marketing : okay , industrial designer : you you still have your blue fingers . marketing : so what this is is a set-up for us to um uh use a kind of a like a user interface : is it ? industrial designer : you killed a monster . user interface : marketing : the idea is that i 've set up i 've reviewed all of the um the points of discussion from the beginning , and used that as a criteria of evaluation for the um uh for the current design uh th or the plan , and uh so we can review that . uh i think it 's gon na end up being sort of elementary because we 're sort we 're in n we 're not gon na probably use it to change anything but does n't seem like it 's going , does it ? project manager : oh there it is . marketing : yeah , okay great . uh and i 'm gon na write up our results on the board , so this 'll be a way for us to go through and decide if we 're um sort of review where we stand with it . okay , so um so to sort of b bring together two things , sort of design goals and also the market research that we had , uh when we rate this , one is v high in in succeeding or fitting to our original aim and seven is low , project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : okay . so these i these i th are the and um we 've been asked to uh to collectively rate this , so what we can do is try and just y work on a consensus system so we just come to an agreement . project manager : okay . marketing : okay ? so the first one uh , stylish look and feel . industrial designer : i rate that pretty highly . project manager : well yeah , i mean compared to most remote controls you see that 's pretty good . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : i dunno like a six or something . marketing : yeah . project manager : what does anybody else think ? marketing : yeah um me uh my only reservation with it was that we basically went with yellow because it 's the company 's colour , and i do n't know if yellow 's gon na really be a hit . but project manager : okay . user interface : i 'm seeing five then . marketing : what do you guys think ? project manager : i would say five or six . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yep i 'm fine with that . project manager : david ? marketing : okay let 's go with five then . project manager : okay . marketing : fi oh uh just actually the opposite . industrial designer : it 's one to seven , right ? project manager : oh yes marketing : the project manager : sorry then marketing : so it meant three , project manager : , then i would say two or three . marketing : okay . industrial designer : wait , what 's the scale , one to seven , right ? project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , one is high . user interface : one 's high-ish is n't it ? ah , okay so yeah , two or three . marketing : 'kay industrial designer : okay , it 's upside-down . marketing : let 's go with two point five then . project manager : user interface : marketing : okay , um control industrial designer : marketing : high tech innovation . project manager : well it has the wee jog-dial marketing : we had to remove project manager : but marketing : yeah , so we 've had to remove a few of our features we wanted , but jog-dial industrial designer : say it 's more project manager : i 'd go with three or four , marketing : 's good . industrial designer : medium , project manager : maybe three . user interface : three . industrial designer : but going towards a little bit higher than medium kind of thing . marketing : okay , project manager : yeah about three , okay . marketing : three ? okay , um industrial designer : marketing : style reflects a fruit inspired colour , design . industrial designer : lemon . marketing : i should n't have said colour , but just industrial designer : okay , the blue the blue colours and do n't re do n't actually represent the colour , project manager : well that 's kind of marketing : sorta . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : except for the b the the red button , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : they because for want of a marketing : okay . project manager : but the yellow , i mean it could be a lemon yellow colour , marketing : right . yeah , could be . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , the the yellow is more representative of the colour , project manager : could n't it ? industrial designer : but the button itself , the blue can be anything else . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . okay so we 'll go two . user interface : project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah ? okay , and um design is simple to use , simple in features . project manager : well yeah , i mean it 's really basic looking is n't it ? marketing : f f yeah f fairly basic , project manager : i mean i 'd give that nearly a one . marketing : you guys think ? user interface : yeah one . industrial designer : yep , that 's fine . marketing : yeah , one ? okay . um , soft and spongy , have we achieved that ? we 've used mostly plastic in the end so it 's going to be quite a bit of a compromise for price . user interface : yeah i think it 's about five . marketing : five ? project manager : five ? that 's really low . user interface : yeah well we have to use uh plastic project manager : yeah i suppose mm 'kay . marketing : that 's user interface : so it 's probably gon na be industrial designer : yeah , company logo . marketing : could we have used an entirely rubber frame to it ? was that an option ? industrial designer : i think it 'll be cost prohibitive , user interface : i think i 'd probably increase the cost . marketing : it would cost more than plastic . user interface : we 've only got like what , ten cents left so industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay , logo , we 've got it in there , have n't we ? project manager : yep . gon na have that on the side , are n't we , like there or something ? marketing : huh . and um it 's within budget , yep . it is , is n't it ? user interface : yeah . marketing : okay , so we can say then that uh out of a possible or what would be our goal here ? project manager : out of forty nine , i guess . marketing : yeah , out of forty nine with with zero being the highest . we are at uh two , seven , eight , ten , fifteen point five . project manager : 's pretty good . marketing : so it 's pretty good . translates to something like about approximately seventy two percent efficacy of our original goal . right ? project manager : uh yeah . marketing : i think 'cause if you turn that into a hundred it would be about project manager : twice that , marketing : about thirty one , project manager : about thirty one . marketing : and then invert that , it 's project manager : so yeah ab well yeah about sixty nine , seventy percent yeah . marketing : oh right , about seventy , yeah seventy percent . project manager : it 's pretty good . marketing : okay , good . that was just a little formality for us to go through . project manager : okay . marketing : yep , oh hundred pound pen . user interface : project manager : marketing : sorry alright . project manager : nobody saw it , honestly . marketing : no . industrial designer : the cameras did . project manager : is that you all have all finished , or marketing : yeah that 's that 's me . i did have one other um one other frame i thought , i mean i i d not knowing how we would deal with this information , i thought okay in theory this kind of a process would be about refining our design , revisiting our original goals . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : it 's not something i need to p push through , but i thought should we thinking more about the dimensions , um sort of like more of a three dimensional shapes as well as opposed to just that flat um project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : could our design involve a series of colours so that it 's more of like a line where we have like sort of the , i do n't know like the harvest line or the vibrant , i dunno the whatever just some theme and then we have different tones , lime green , lemon . project manager : okay . marketing : it 's just discussion . i mean obviously we can just abandon this , it 's fine . i 'm just thinking about what we originally set out to do . project manager : right . marketing : um , yep so there . that 's all . project manager : okay , great um are you submitting the the um evaluation criteria or am i ? i do n't know what your instructions have been . marketing : um , i think to record it and uh i have n't been asked to submit it yet . project manager : okay , marketing : yeah . project manager : uh just wondering if i need to include it in the minutes , user interface : project manager : because if you 're submitting it anyway then marketing : i will , yeah . project manager : okay great . industrial designer : it keeps getting too big . project manager : cool . um right , uh well next up then , because we 've done finance , is the project evaluation . industrial designer : 'kay i 'm i 'm listening i 'm just trying to incorporate the logo into the the thing , so i 'm playing with the play-doh as well . project manager : oh right , okay . user interface : industrial designer : just in case you 're wondering , why is he still playing with the play-doh ? just about right user interface : industrial designer : l_e_g_o_ lego . user interface : my leg . project manager : right , okay . um well do you wan na um just individually say what you think about about these four points and or not those four points , my four points , sorry , forgotten that . you got a different uh industrial designer : marketing : yep . i like those printer cables that just have the two little butterfly clips like that . project manager : oh yeah , they 're good are n't they , yeah . marketing : it 's really quick . project manager : right okay , marketing : to use . project manager : um yeah here we are . uh as a note we 'll do this alphabetically . um do you wan na start andrew ? marketing : sure , um so what is it you 're asking of me now ? project manager : i do n't know , just um your opinion on those four those four points really and how we used them . marketing : or sort of our work on setting this up . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . well , is it uh okay i 'll just go through your system then . the the room uh is fairly institutional , but um the main thing is , i think um our use of this space is more just to report on things as opposed to be creative and constructive and it would probably help to um have l sort of a cumulative effect of we have ideas and we come back and then the ideas are still in discussion , you know , project manager : uh-huh . marketing : as in other words this this room is sort of a centre point of creativity , whereas in reality as we 've gone through this , it 's not really the centre point of creativity , it 's more just a project manager : well d do you feel though that that you were able to have quite a lot of creative input into the thing ? marketing : d debating yeah , yeah but that 's just the thing is the quest in terms of the the first point there , the room , it feels as though the creativity goes on when we leave , and then we come here and then we kind of put out our ideas and then , you know . project manager : but i do n't i do n't think it means the room as in this room . i think it means like you know marketing : oh , oh right right , oh right okay room for creativ project manager : yeah . marketing : oh right i just looked up and saw okay whiteboard , digital pens , the room . project manager : room . oh yeah . marketing : no , of course , yeah . project manager : well i dunno do you th i think it means um i think it means did you feel you were able to give creative input so marketing : sorry . huh . yeah . yeah i th okay on th um yeah dif answering the question uh in those terms i 'd say that actually there 's sort of a tease of creativity because we 're asked to work through this , but actually the guidelines are fairly contrived in terms of um okay fashion trends , say fruit and vegetable colour scheme , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but then i then we 're told okay use the co company company colours . so what do we do . we 're told okay um think in terms of style and look and feel and technology , but build something for twelve and a half pounds , project manager : okay . marketing : so actually the creativity was more more of like a um a f sort of a f formality then an actual industrial designer : you feel like you 're caged within whatever y project manager : okay . marketing : yeah within the constraints industrial designer : it 's like a balloon in a cage , it can only go so big and not hit the side . marketing : the project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : the constraints do come in very fast . project manager : okay uh do you know what , marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : actually let 's take each point and everybody discuss it , i think . marketing : so project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so still on the topic of room for creativity uh next up is craig . user interface : um i agree with his point it 's um it is quite a lot of fun t to go and then you have sort of hit the end then go right , got ta cut everything out 'cause we do n't have enough money . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . i think another point is that the meetings um are more brainstorming sessions than meetings , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so time is also a very s um strong factor , and structure . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because for a brainstorming meeting you want a structure that allows you to allows ideas to get tossed , um to be evaluated , and to be reviewed , and to get feedback and come back . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : and i guess that point about the room not being r very friendly to that , i think that 's a very big thing , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and i think the fact that we 're wearing these things restricts marketing : yeah , sure . industrial designer : i feel it 'cause i wear m my glasses , right , and that but that irritates me right project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it it it does actually you know affect how , w whether you feel comfortable to communicate . marketing : yeah . new creativity . industrial designer : i feel like i 'm hiding behind the equipment , rather than the equipment is helping me , and you know . project manager : so you think a more relaxed atmosphere would be more kind of conducive to creative thought or marketing : right . industrial designer : not not so much an atmosphere , the atmosphere is very relaxed , but the the gear project manager : yeah , but actual environment ? industrial designer : yeah you know that creates boundaries to that um and and the time the time given also restricts project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : very good . um what about leadership ? industrial designer : project manager : i do n't know if that means like , if i did a good job or something . industrial designer : project manager : i do n't really know . marketing : yeah , well well i mean my sense on that is sort of what kind of guidance and direction , encouragement project manager : from like your personal coach person and stuff like that , do you think maybe ? marketing : yeah from and you as well i think , just sort of acting as team leader . project manager : okay . marketing : um yeah i think i think it 's industrial designer : excuse me . marketing : i think it 's good . i mean my personal views on on leadership is that effective effective leadership sort of um gives people a certain room for freedom and delegation , but then to come back with something that they take great ownership and industrial designer : project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : you know , innovative thought with . in in reality i think here the the different elements of leadership such as the the original b briefing and then the personal coach and the and then you know having having you with your the meeting agenda is actually quite a quite a quite a con confining framework to work within . and so it is leadership almost to the point of sort of disempowering the the the team member , so project manager : uh-huh , okay . marketing : but it 's not bad leadership , it 's just sort of s fairly strong , you know . it turns it turns the individual into more of like a um sort of a predetermined mechanism , as opposed to a sort of a free project manager : so you think maybe a little too controlling or industrial designer : marketing : yeah , oh yeah , without without a doubt . industrial designer : i think controlling is not the right word , i think the interactions are very structured . marketing : yeah maybe not co confining . industrial designer : i think structure is probably what you 're saying that , each individual is structured to one particular task , and one parti rather than controlling . marketing : yeah . yeah , yeah . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i do n't think there 's a sense of control 'cause all the decisions have been made in terms of a , like a consensus right , we go around and we think about it , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . industrial designer : but that you know process actually says you have to do it in a certain way . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : it does n't tell you , you know , some ways that you might wan na be a bit more creative in terms of the process you know , not the project manager : okay . marketing : mm . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : okay , uh what about teamwork ? marketing : um did , you wan na comment craig ? user interface : uh , reckon that was a bit hard because we could only discuss things in the meeting . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : if we could just go up to somebody outside the meeting and have a quick talk with them , that would 've been a lot easier . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i think you tried to use the common share folder to to to to communicate , marketing : fully agree . industrial designer : but um it just comes back to us so slow in the email marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um it it does n't have a , you know , a messenger will go . marketing : project manager : did uh did you guys get the email i sent you ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : oh that 's alright . user interface : not just yet . project manager : i was wondering if that got there okay . marketing : yeah , got the email . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay , um so um to s to to summarize the teamwork issue , saying that if we could communicate outside the meeting , you know just like quick questions , quick thoughts , whatever , it probably would be bit easier . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think the tools that they were given , the tool set that were given to us are fancy but they do n't support collaboration , i think that 's the word . marketing : yeah , in it mm-hmm , industrial designer : they do n't support the team working together , you know , marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm , project manager : oh right , okay . marketing : exactly . yeah , i mean if you industrial designer : they 're still very individual tools . marketing : yeah , i mean sort of taking upon that idea , w the way i see this i is that it 's uh the the s the structure in which we 've we 've approached this whole task is quite contrary to the p principle of teamwork because the the tasks were d d sort of um divided , and then the work went on in isolation i i do n't know what you guys did while you were together , maybe that was a bit different , industrial designer : we had play-doh fun . marketing : but um yeah , but um but actually if you if you imagine not entire the completely same task given to us but us said okay , first thing we have to do is come up with um let 's say um a design concept , and we sit here together and do it , project manager : yeah . marketing : well that 's what teamwork is . to s to say okay go off and do n't talk to each other , it 's actually p sort of predisposes you to quite the contrary of teamwork . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : um not that we have n't done i think the best we could have done . project manager : okay . marketing : i 'm not dissatisfied with it . project manager : right , uh anything else to say on teamwork at all ? industrial designer : no , not really . project manager : okay , um what about the you know how we used the whiteboard , the digital pens , the projector , stuff like that ? um did anybody think anything was like really useful , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : anything was pretty un f unsupportive ? marketing : i think the whiteboard , for me , is the kind of thing i would use all the time , but it 's um not quite as useful as to us as it could have been , maybe just in the way that we we use it , in the sense that once we have an idea out there or while work was going on in between meetings , that could have been up on a board uh you know as opposed to in like in text . um , and then we could then keep our ideas sort of building on that . i know that people who design cars and you know in aviation they quite often just have a simple like fibreglass prototype and it 's completely you know um abs abstract from the final product , but they use it as a kind of a context to sort of walk around and puzzle and and point and discuss project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . and point at ? yeah . marketing : and and and in a way everybody 's as we discuss things in the in theoretically and out of our notebooks , we 're just we 're actually just each of us discussing something that 's in each of our own minds . it was n't until we had this here , you know , project manager : yeah . marketing : like at one point i peeked across and looked at craig 's paper and i 'm like , now i know what he 's thinking 'cause i saw his book . but the b the b whiteboard could 've actually been this kind of continuing um project manager : so do you think producing a prototype earlier in the process woulda been a good idea ? marketing : think could be , yeah . industrial designer : i think um the the focus of it a lot was the powerpoint as opposed to the to the whiteboard , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : and i think that m um is also does you know hinder us and things i think . marketing : yeah . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : it will be cooler to have the whiteboard rather than the the powerpoint , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : or maybe the whiteboard and the powerpoint in the same place , marketing : yeah . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : you know in the centre of the project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , because the powerpoint was provided to us while we had time to prepare , whereas i can imagine if i 'd been encouraged to use paintbrush , for example , or whatever , i would 've actually used it , project manager : alright . marketing : um 'ca you know , just 'cause that 's sorta how we what we were set up to to use while we had our time . project manager : okay uh industrial designer : i think that there were too many powerpoints in the meetings . 'cause the plug-in and the plugging spent we spent a lot of time doing that . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and a lot of the information on the powerpoints , i do n't think , you know , we needed to actually it could have , we could have gone through it verbally , project manager : yeah . marketing : no , not quite . industrial designer : especially my slides , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i felt that they just you know marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : as opposed to having to present them . marketing : yeah . project manager : what about the digital pens , did you find them easy enough to use ? industrial designer : yep clunky . marketing : sure , yeah . user interface : oh they 're a bit clunky . industrial designer : agreed . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . yep . project manager : clunky , okay . um industrial designer : having to tick it before you go off was a bit hindering as well , 'cause you 're half way through a thought , and then you run out of paper and then you have to jump . project manager : yeah . i know , i think at the very start of today i like wrote a whole load of stuff , did n't click note on one , marketing : yeah . project manager : then went back and wrote one tiny wee thing on the another page , but then did click note , and so i 'm quite worried that i 've just written over the top of it or something , marketing : hmm . hmm . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : but they 'll have my paper anyway um and have n't done that since . industrial designer : but i think the pen is v is very intuitive , everybody knows how to use it , we do n't have to worry . project manager : yeah , marketing : mm-hmm , industrial designer : so i think the pen 's good . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's about the best thing . marketing : user interface : marketing : and o on the topic of the technology , it just occurred to me that we actually did n't need to move our computers because each computer has all of the files . project manager : yeah . marketing : it just occurred to me that they all industrial designer : yeah we only needed one computer and marketing : we only actually needed one computer . project manager : yeah , that 's true . marketing : if there had been a fifth , that coulda just been sitting there ready to go the whole time . user interface : good point . industrial designer : and the computer may not um be conducive to a meeting because um you tend to look at your computer and wan na have the urge to check something , you know , marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . industrial designer : it 's useful but project manager : yeah . marketing : project manager : do you think the computers just provide distraction in a meeting ? industrial designer : i think too many computers are just distracting . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um project manager : okay . i know i i like to have things written down in front of me actually , like a lot of the stuff that was emailed to me i ended up you know like writing down there or something so i could look at it really quickly and not have the distraction of all of that , marketing : mm-hmm . yep . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : um i do n't know about anybody else . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um what else uh any wh i do i 'm not really sure what they 're looking for when they say new ideas found . um i do n't know is user interface : is this for the project or project manager : could you think of like anything else that would have been helpful today at all ? marketing : well , the w main one for me is that uh the process na in a natural f context would not have been interrupted by this necessity to discommunicate ourselves from each other . project manager : mm . yeah if we just had uh marketing : so , that 's kind of a new idea for me is like just sort of that idea , well you know it 's kind of s hard to keep f working forward on a team a team based project when when you 're told you must now work away from your team . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah i i dunno i think it was quite good that we had time limits on the meetings because they really could have run on and like my experience with meetings is that they really do , and you can spend a lot of time talking about marketing : oh yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : the only thing is though like when we had our meeting about the conceptual design , i thought there maybe another fifteen minutes would have been useful there but um yeah . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : i really thi i i think maybe if we 'd like all been working in the one room , and they just said you know like every hour or something everybody make sure yo you know just have a have a short meeting and then just c marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : just to have like something written down , just like you know a a milestone if you like um rather than having meetings , but marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : there you go . um so in closing , i have n't got my five minutes to go . thin oh there it i five minutes to go . user interface : project manager : wonderful . okay um are the costs within the budget , yes they are . and is the project evaluated , yes it is . so now celebrate . marketing : great . user interface : industrial designer : and we have ninja homer . marketing : so it so now we user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : project manager : well apparently now i write the final report . what are you guys doing now ? user interface : do we know what the other ones are ? industrial designer : marketing : i i do n't know . project manager : you dunno ? user interface : oh wow . project manager : that is lovely . user interface : hey yeah , i said ninja homer . marketing : what did you call it ? industrial designer : ninja homer . see it looks like homer simpson marketing : huh , huh . industrial designer : but it 's electronic so it 's made in japan . project manager : so is that j is that just is that just a logo or does it do anything ? marketing : logo . user interface : industrial designer : yeah it 's just a logo . project manager : just a logo and then like ninja homer , industrial designer : ninja homer . project manager : right okay . industrial designer : the the red is supposed to represent the whatever else you wan na print on the side of it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think it 's quite nice . marketing : fashion technology or something . industrial designer : you can wear homer , you can throw homer when you 're frustrated , doh . marketing : hmm , hmm , hmm . user interface : project manager : oh no , that 's cool , it 's got i 'm kind of industrial designer : it 's clunky . project manager : i 'm slightly gutted that we could n't get plastic and rubber , i think that would have been nice . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : ah well , maybe from now on real reaction should give us more money . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh , i did learn something new , play-doh is useful . no it is it is . project manager : play-doh s marketing : industrial designer : it is useful and in in in in in in in um conceptualizing , in being creative . marketing : huh . huh . industrial designer : 'cause like you say , it 's something you can put your hands on and feel and touch and get a sense for . project manager : really ? marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like we were playing with the play-doh and the ideas came with the play-doh rather than with everything else . project manager : did they ? industrial designer : you might wan na write that down . it 's just , i 'm just fiddling with the play-doh , and i 'm going yeah yeah it 's kinda cool . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . play-doh . marketing : no , it 's true , yeah . user interface : guess i 'd forgot how good s play-doh smells . project manager : yeah , it smells funny does n't it . um marketing : hmm . and some play-dohs are actually i think edible are n't they ? industrial designer : no , all play-doh is edible . project manager : yeah like the stuff for user interface : i think they 're all non-toxic 'cause it 's aimed for like two-year-olds . project manager : i think it has to be , yeah . industrial designer : it 's just wheat , it 's the stuff that your mom could make with preservatives and uh project manager : yeah um so to marketing : wow , hmm . project manager : wha what are your summarising words about play-doh ? industrial designer : it 's helpful to the creative process . um it engages all your senses not just your sight , but your sense of feel your sense of touch . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it helps you to understand marketing : taste . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : dimension as well . i think that that 's very helpful because it it starts to pop up , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : whereas on a piece of paper , on a computer , on a board , um even with a three d_ graphic thing it still , it requires a lot of project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm , yep . yeah . yeah . user interface : it 's not very tangible . industrial designer : yeah tangible , that 's a nice word . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm , industrial designer : it becomes tangible . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : tangible . okay uh industrial designer : project manager : mm . i do n't know if there 's anything else we needed to discuss . industrial designer : nope . project manager : that that 's about it really . just sit still i guess for a little while . marketing : do we retreat to our , to continue our industrial designer : i think we could probably do it here as long as we do n't collaborate . project manager : um marketing : r reporting or what i project manager : well i dunno . um i 'm sure the little uh the little thing 'll pop up any minute now . marketing : industrial designer : can we turn off the microphones ? project manager : yeah , yeah if the meeting 's over then yeah i guess so . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about changes in the current design . </s> marketing : where are they ? industrial designer : um they 're in the lcd panel and the jog-dial ? marketing : ah , right . industrial designer : okay 'cause project manager : so w what kind of thing uh is gon na be marketing : great . user interface : industrial designer : the lcd panel just displays um functionally what you 're doing . if you 're using an advanced function right , like um c brightness , contrast , whatever , it will just say marketing : right . okay . industrial designer : you know it 's like it only has four columns , it 's a very simple lcd like , whereas many the minimum amount we need that the user will automatically know like this is brightness or this is contrast . marketing : right . project manager : mm-hmm . okay cool . marketing : right , 'kay . industrial designer : it might even be one , a bit more complex lcd panel with pictures like maybe the sun or the , you know , the the symbols of the various functions . project manager : oh right okay . marketing : mm-hmm , and what is this here ? project manager : cool . industrial designer : that 's a number pad . marketing : okay so the number pad is 'kay , great . project manager : where are we gon na have the slogan ? industrial designer : um they 're al along this user interface : you know , just like right inside there . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay cool . industrial designer : you have this space here , and then you have this thing on the side as well , or at the bottom . project manager : industrial designer : 'cause slogans are usually quite small , right , project manager : okay . industrial designer : they 're not like huge so they 're s say a button 's about project manager : okay . marketing : looks good . industrial designer : say a button 's about this size , right , so you would still have plenty of space for a slogan , say even for that . marketing : yep . mm-hmm . project manager : so if this is n't to scale , what kind of dimensions are you thinking about here ? user interface : well we want the other buttons to be big enough to push easily with a finger project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so we reckon maybe that 'll be about the same size as the palm of your hand . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yep so that would be about a centimetre for a button , so one two three four centimetres . plus maybe half o five marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : six seven eight , marketing : about nine in total . project manager : six , seven , eight , nine , ten . industrial designer : about yeah nine total . project manager : so we 're talking about ten centimetres . marketing : that sounds good . yeah . project manager : that would be good . so ten centimetres in height . industrial designer : nine , ten . yep . project manager : okay um . marketing : that 'd be good , in fact a pen is about ten centimetres usually , so that would be that sounds like a really good size , if you see it there . project manager : yeah . that 's great and it 's very bright as well . so um okay . marketing : mm . is it possible uh i 'm just gon na bring up the idea of colours . is these are these the colours that of production , or is this just what we had available ? user interface : well i 'm we 're gon na have again the the sort of the foggy um yellow from last time that lit up when you pushed the button . marketing : right . project manager : okay so just user interface : um project manager : could you just list all the things that it does s so i can write them in the report . user interface : but um this button um , because it 's red it 's sort of very prominent , we 're gon na use it as uh it can be the power button if you hold it for maybe two seconds it 'll send a stand-by signal . industrial designer : excuse me . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um apart from that it 's gon na be used as a confirm button for the lcd screen industrial designer : sure . project manager : okay . user interface : and you use this as a jog-dial . project manager : okay so that 's like an okay button , right . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh we 've discussed how h high it is , but how wide is it ? user interface : i do n't know . project manager : okay . marketing : how high is it ? industrial designer : no as in the height , but what about the width ? marketing : yeah . user interface : did n't put five centimetres . project manager : like depth of the actual thing . industrial designer : do we need five ? i do n't think five is be about th three and a half . marketing : okay . project manager : oh is this k to get an idea of scale from your from your thing there okay . user interface : something by there . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : sure . project manager : so you can power on and off , what else can you do ? marketing : three and a half . user interface : um you can skip straight to a channel using these buttons . project manager : okay . user interface : um , were gon na have the volume control here , but um because we 've got the the lcd and the jog-dial we just thought we 'd um use that as the volume . project manager : okay jog-dial for volume . and what else do you do with the jog-dial ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : um you can use it for um more advanced functions like contrast , colour and project manager : contrast , brightness , user interface : um yeah . project manager : yeah , and anything else ? user interface : um just whatever else we wanted to include as the advanced functions , um we did n't actually go through and specify the project manager : well of the designers what are they ? user interface : uh what can a tv do ? industrial designer : okay things like um brightness , contrast , project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : um maybe tuning the channels . project manager : okay channel tuning . that 's a good one . industrial designer : what else ? um the various inputs . are you having a v_c_r_ , are you having you know which input do you have ? marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : okay auxiliary inputs . marketing : mm-hmm , probably colour or sharpness . industrial designer : yep , colour , sharpness . um a lot of these things will have to be um free and open for users to define them . project manager : sharpness . okay what about uh sound settings marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : ? uh d can you change any of those at all ? marketing : audio . industrial designer : audio , we have like your basic y your base , your mid-range , your high range . user interface : the the balance hmm . industrial designer : yep , left-right balance , um maybe even pre-programmed sound modes , like um the user could determine like a series of sound modes , project manager : okay . industrial designer : and then what could happen would be um when you click on that then it would go to that setting . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , marketing : mm 'kay . </s>
<s> what was the discussion about the button when talking about changes in the current design ? </s> industrial designer : say a button 's about project manager : okay . marketing : looks good . industrial designer : say a button 's about this size , right , so you would still have plenty of space for a slogan , say even for that . marketing : yep . mm-hmm . project manager : so if this is n't to scale , what kind of dimensions are you thinking about here ? user interface : well we want the other buttons to be big enough to push easily with a finger project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so we reckon maybe that 'll be about the same size as the palm of your hand . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yep so that would be about a centimetre for a button , so one two three four centimetres . plus maybe half o five marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : six seven eight , marketing : about nine in total . project manager : six , seven , eight , nine , ten . industrial designer : about yeah nine total . project manager : so we 're talking about ten centimetres . marketing : that sounds good . yeah . project manager : that would be good . so ten centimetres in height . industrial designer : nine , ten . yep . project manager : okay um . marketing : that 'd be good , in fact a pen is about ten centimetres usually , so that would be that sounds like a really good size , if you see it there . project manager : yeah . that 's great and it 's very bright as well . so um okay . marketing : mm . is it possible uh i 'm just gon na bring up the idea of colours . is these are these the colours that of production , or is this just what we had available ? user interface : well i 'm we 're gon na have again the the sort of the foggy um yellow from last time that lit up when you pushed the button . marketing : right . project manager : okay so just user interface : um project manager : could you just list all the things that it does s so i can write them in the report . user interface : but um this button um , because it 's red it 's sort of very prominent , we 're gon na use it as uh it can be the power button if you hold it for maybe two seconds it 'll send a stand-by signal . industrial designer : excuse me . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um apart from that it 's gon na be used as a confirm button for the lcd screen industrial designer : sure . project manager : okay . user interface : and you use this as a jog-dial . project manager : okay so that 's like an okay button , right . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh we 've discussed how h high it is , but how wide is it ? user interface : i do n't know . project manager : okay . marketing : how high is it ? industrial designer : no as in the height , but what about the width ? marketing : yeah . user interface : did n't put five centimetres . project manager : like depth of the actual thing . industrial designer : do we need five ? i do n't think five is be about th three and a half . marketing : okay . project manager : oh is this k to get an idea of scale from your from your thing there okay . user interface : something by there . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : sure . project manager : so you can power on and off , what else can you do ? marketing : three and a half . user interface : um you can skip straight to a channel using these buttons . </s>
<s> what was the discussion about the jog dial 's function when talking about changes in the current design ? </s> user interface : um , were gon na have the volume control here , but um because we 've got the the lcd and the jog-dial we just thought we 'd um use that as the volume . project manager : okay jog-dial for volume . and what else do you do with the jog-dial ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : um you can use it for um more advanced functions like contrast , colour and project manager : contrast , brightness , user interface : um yeah . project manager : yeah , and anything else ? user interface : um just whatever else we wanted to include as the advanced functions , um we did n't actually go through and specify the project manager : well of the designers what are they ? user interface : uh what can a tv do ? industrial designer : okay things like um brightness , contrast , project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : um maybe tuning the channels . project manager : okay channel tuning . that 's a good one . industrial designer : what else ? um the various inputs . are you having a v_c_r_ , are you having you know which input do you have ? marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : okay auxiliary inputs . marketing : mm-hmm , probably colour or sharpness . industrial designer : yep , colour , sharpness . um a lot of these things will have to be um free and open for users to define them . project manager : sharpness . okay what about uh sound settings marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : ? uh d can you change any of those at all ? marketing : audio . industrial designer : audio , we have like your basic y your base , your mid-range , your high range . user interface : the the balance hmm . industrial designer : yep , left-right balance , um maybe even pre-programmed sound modes , like um the user could determine like a series of sound modes , project manager : okay . industrial designer : and then what could happen would be um when you click on that then it would go to that setting . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , marketing : mm 'kay . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about evaluating the project . </s> marketing : so it meant three , project manager : , then i would say two or three . marketing : okay . industrial designer : wait , what 's the scale , one to seven , right ? project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , one is high . user interface : one 's high-ish is n't it ? ah , okay so yeah , two or three . marketing : 'kay industrial designer : okay , it 's upside-down . marketing : let 's go with two point five then . project manager : user interface : marketing : okay , um control industrial designer : marketing : high tech innovation . project manager : well it has the wee jog-dial marketing : we had to remove project manager : but marketing : yeah , so we 've had to remove a few of our features we wanted , but jog-dial industrial designer : say it 's more project manager : i 'd go with three or four , marketing : 's good . industrial designer : medium , project manager : maybe three . user interface : three . industrial designer : but going towards a little bit higher than medium kind of thing . marketing : okay , project manager : yeah about three , okay . marketing : three ? okay , um industrial designer : marketing : style reflects a fruit inspired colour , design . industrial designer : lemon . marketing : i should n't have said colour , but just industrial designer : okay , the blue the blue colours and do n't re do n't actually represent the colour , project manager : well that 's kind of marketing : sorta . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : except for the b the the red button , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : they because for want of a marketing : okay . project manager : but the yellow , i mean it could be a lemon yellow colour , marketing : right . yeah , could be . yeah . industrial designer : yeah , the the yellow is more representative of the colour , project manager : could n't it ? industrial designer : but the button itself , the blue can be anything else . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . okay so we 'll go two . user interface : project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah ? okay , and um design is simple to use , simple in features . project manager : well yeah , i mean it 's really basic looking is n't it ? marketing : f f yeah f fairly basic , project manager : i mean i 'd give that nearly a one . marketing : you guys think ? user interface : yeah one . industrial designer : yep , that 's fine . marketing : yeah , one ? okay . um , soft and spongy , have we achieved that ? we 've used mostly plastic in the end so it 's going to be quite a bit of a compromise for price . user interface : yeah i think it 's about five . marketing : five ? project manager : five ? that 's really low . user interface : yeah well we have to use uh plastic project manager : yeah i suppose mm 'kay . marketing : that 's user interface : so it 's probably gon na be industrial designer : yeah , company logo . marketing : could we have used an entirely rubber frame to it ? was that an option ? industrial designer : i think it 'll be cost prohibitive , user interface : i think i 'd probably increase the cost . marketing : it would cost more than plastic . user interface : we 've only got like what , ten cents left so industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay , logo , we 've got it in there , have n't we ? project manager : yep . gon na have that on the side , are n't we , like there or something ? marketing : huh . and um it 's within budget , yep . it is , is n't it ? user interface : yeah . marketing : okay , so we can say then that uh out of a possible or what would be our goal here ? project manager : out of forty nine , i guess . marketing : yeah , out of forty nine with with zero being the highest . we are at uh two , seven , eight , ten , fifteen point five . project manager : 's pretty good . marketing : so it 's pretty good . translates to something like about approximately seventy two percent efficacy of our original goal . right ? project manager : uh yeah . marketing : i think 'cause if you turn that into a hundred it would be about project manager : twice that , marketing : about thirty one , project manager : about thirty one . marketing : and then invert that , it 's project manager : so yeah ab well yeah about sixty nine , seventy percent yeah . marketing : oh right , about seventy , yeah seventy percent . project manager : it 's pretty good . marketing : okay , good . that was just a little formality for us to go through . project manager : okay . marketing : yep , oh hundred pound pen . user interface : project manager : marketing : sorry alright . project manager : nobody saw it , honestly . marketing : no . industrial designer : the cameras did . project manager : is that you all have all finished , or marketing : yeah that 's that 's me . i did have one other um one other frame i thought , i mean i i d not knowing how we would deal with this information , i thought okay in theory this kind of a process would be about refining our design , revisiting our original goals . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : it 's not something i need to p push through , but i thought should we thinking more about the dimensions , um sort of like more of a three dimensional shapes as well as opposed to just that flat um project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : could our design involve a series of colours so that it 's more of like a line where we have like sort of the , i do n't know like the harvest line or the vibrant , i dunno the whatever just some theme and then we have different tones , lime green , lemon . project manager : okay . marketing : it 's just discussion . i mean obviously we can just abandon this , it 's fine . i 'm just thinking about what we originally set out to do . project manager : right . marketing : um , yep so there . that 's all . project manager : okay , great um are you submitting the the um evaluation criteria or am i ? i do n't know what your instructions have been . marketing : um , i think to record it and uh i have n't been asked to submit it yet . project manager : okay , marketing : yeah . project manager : uh just wondering if i need to include it in the minutes , user interface : project manager : because if you 're submitting it anyway then marketing : i will , yeah . project manager : okay great . industrial designer : it keeps getting too big . project manager : cool . um right , uh well next up then , because we 've done finance , is the project evaluation . industrial designer : 'kay i 'm i 'm listening i 'm just trying to incorporate the logo into the the thing , so i 'm playing with the play-doh as well . project manager : oh right , okay . user interface : industrial designer : just in case you 're wondering , why is he still playing with the play-doh ? just about right user interface : industrial designer : l_e_g_o_ lego . user interface : my leg . project manager : right , okay . um well do you wan na um just individually say what you think about about these four points and or not those four points , my four points , sorry , forgotten that . you got a different uh industrial designer : marketing : yep . i like those printer cables that just have the two little butterfly clips like that . project manager : oh yeah , they 're good are n't they , yeah . marketing : it 's really quick . project manager : right okay , marketing : to use . project manager : um yeah here we are . uh as a note we 'll do this alphabetically . um do you wan na start andrew ? marketing : sure , um so what is it you 're asking of me now ? project manager : i do n't know , just um your opinion on those four those four points really and how we used them . marketing : or sort of our work on setting this up . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . well , is it uh okay i 'll just go through your system then . the the room uh is fairly institutional , but um the main thing is , i think um our use of this space is more just to report on things as opposed to be creative and constructive and it would probably help to um have l sort of a cumulative effect of we have ideas and we come back and then the ideas are still in discussion , you know , project manager : uh-huh . marketing : as in other words this this room is sort of a centre point of creativity , whereas in reality as we 've gone through this , it 's not really the centre point of creativity , it 's more just a project manager : well d do you feel though that that you were able to have quite a lot of creative input into the thing ? marketing : d debating yeah , yeah but that 's just the thing is the quest in terms of the the first point there , the room , it feels as though the creativity goes on when we leave , and then we come here and then we kind of put out our ideas and then , you know . project manager : but i do n't i do n't think it means the room as in this room . i think it means like you know marketing : oh , oh right right , oh right okay room for creativ project manager : yeah . marketing : oh right i just looked up and saw okay whiteboard , digital pens , the room . project manager : room . oh yeah . marketing : no , of course , yeah . project manager : well i dunno do you th i think it means um i think it means did you feel you were able to give creative input so marketing : sorry . huh . yeah . yeah i th okay on th um yeah dif answering the question uh in those terms i 'd say that actually there 's sort of a tease of creativity because we 're asked to work through this , but actually the guidelines are fairly contrived in terms of um okay fashion trends , say fruit and vegetable colour scheme , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but then i then we 're told okay use the co company company colours . so what do we do . we 're told okay um think in terms of style and look and feel and technology , but build something for twelve and a half pounds , project manager : okay . marketing : so actually the creativity was more more of like a um a f sort of a f formality then an actual industrial designer : you feel like you 're caged within whatever y project manager : okay . marketing : yeah within the constraints industrial designer : it 's like a balloon in a cage , it can only go so big and not hit the side . marketing : the project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : the constraints do come in very fast . project manager : okay uh do you know what , marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : actually let 's take each point and everybody discuss it , i think . marketing : so project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so still on the topic of room for creativity uh next up is craig . user interface : um i agree with his point it 's um it is quite a lot of fun t to go and then you have sort of hit the end then go right , got ta cut everything out 'cause we do n't have enough money . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . i think another point is that the meetings um are more brainstorming sessions than meetings , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so time is also a very s um strong factor , and structure . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because for a brainstorming meeting you want a structure that allows you to allows ideas to get tossed , um to be evaluated , and to be reviewed , and to get feedback and come back . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : and i guess that point about the room not being r very friendly to that , i think that 's a very big thing , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and i think the fact that we 're wearing these things restricts marketing : yeah , sure . industrial designer : i feel it 'cause i wear m my glasses , right , and that but that irritates me right project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it it it does actually you know affect how , w whether you feel comfortable to communicate . marketing : yeah . new creativity . industrial designer : i feel like i 'm hiding behind the equipment , rather than the equipment is helping me , and you know . project manager : so you think a more relaxed atmosphere would be more kind of conducive to creative thought or marketing : right . industrial designer : not not so much an atmosphere , the atmosphere is very relaxed , but the the gear project manager : yeah , but actual environment ? industrial designer : yeah you know that creates boundaries to that um and and the time the time given also restricts project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : very good . um what about leadership ? industrial designer : project manager : i do n't know if that means like , if i did a good job or something . industrial designer : project manager : i do n't really know . marketing : yeah , well well i mean my sense on that is sort of what kind of guidance and direction , encouragement project manager : from like your personal coach person and stuff like that , do you think maybe ? marketing : yeah from and you as well i think , just sort of acting as team leader . project manager : okay . marketing : um yeah i think i think it 's industrial designer : excuse me . marketing : i think it 's good . i mean my personal views on on leadership is that effective effective leadership sort of um gives people a certain room for freedom and delegation , but then to come back with something that they take great ownership and industrial designer : project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : you know , innovative thought with . in in reality i think here the the different elements of leadership such as the the original b briefing and then the personal coach and the and then you know having having you with your the meeting agenda is actually quite a quite a quite a con confining framework to work within . and so it is leadership almost to the point of sort of disempowering the the the team member , so project manager : uh-huh , okay . marketing : but it 's not bad leadership , it 's just sort of s fairly strong , you know . it turns it turns the individual into more of like a um sort of a predetermined mechanism , as opposed to a sort of a free project manager : so you think maybe a little too controlling or industrial designer : marketing : yeah , oh yeah , without without a doubt . industrial designer : i think controlling is not the right word , i think the interactions are very structured . marketing : yeah maybe not co confining . industrial designer : i think structure is probably what you 're saying that , each individual is structured to one particular task , and one parti rather than controlling . marketing : yeah . yeah , yeah . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i do n't think there 's a sense of control 'cause all the decisions have been made in terms of a , like a consensus right , we go around and we think about it , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . industrial designer : but that you know process actually says you have to do it in a certain way . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : it does n't tell you , you know , some ways that you might wan na be a bit more creative in terms of the process you know , not the project manager : okay . marketing : mm . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : okay , uh what about teamwork ? marketing : um did , you wan na comment craig ? user interface : uh , reckon that was a bit hard because we could only discuss things in the meeting . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : if we could just go up to somebody outside the meeting and have a quick talk with them , that would 've been a lot easier . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i think you tried to use the common share folder to to to to communicate , marketing : fully agree . industrial designer : but um it just comes back to us so slow in the email marketing : yeah . industrial designer : um it it does n't have a , you know , a messenger will go . marketing : project manager : did uh did you guys get the email i sent you ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : oh that 's alright . user interface : not just yet . project manager : i was wondering if that got there okay . marketing : yeah , got the email . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay , um so um to s to to summarize the teamwork issue , saying that if we could communicate outside the meeting , you know just like quick questions , quick thoughts , whatever , it probably would be bit easier . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think the tools that they were given , the tool set that were given to us are fancy but they do n't support collaboration , i think that 's the word . marketing : yeah , in it mm-hmm , industrial designer : they do n't support the team working together , you know , marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm , project manager : oh right , okay . marketing : exactly . yeah , i mean if you industrial designer : they 're still very individual tools . marketing : yeah , i mean sort of taking upon that idea , w the way i see this i is that it 's uh the the s the structure in which we 've we 've approached this whole task is quite contrary to the p principle of teamwork because the the tasks were d d sort of um divided , and then the work went on in isolation i i do n't know what you guys did while you were together , maybe that was a bit different , industrial designer : we had play-doh fun . marketing : but um yeah , but um but actually if you if you imagine not entire the completely same task given to us but us said okay , first thing we have to do is come up with um let 's say um a design concept , and we sit here together and do it , project manager : yeah . marketing : well that 's what teamwork is . to s to say okay go off and do n't talk to each other , it 's actually p sort of predisposes you to quite the contrary of teamwork . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : um not that we have n't done i think the best we could have done . project manager : okay . marketing : i 'm not dissatisfied with it . project manager : right , uh anything else to say on teamwork at all ? industrial designer : no , not really . project manager : okay , um what about the you know how we used the whiteboard , the digital pens , the projector , stuff like that ? um did anybody think anything was like really useful , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : anything was pretty un f unsupportive ? marketing : i think the whiteboard , for me , is the kind of thing i would use all the time , but it 's um not quite as useful as to us as it could have been , maybe just in the way that we we use it , in the sense that once we have an idea out there or while work was going on in between meetings , that could have been up on a board uh you know as opposed to in like in text . um , and then we could then keep our ideas sort of building on that . i know that people who design cars and you know in aviation they quite often just have a simple like fibreglass prototype and it 's completely you know um abs abstract from the final product , but they use it as a kind of a context to sort of walk around and puzzle and and point and discuss project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . and point at ? yeah . marketing : and and and in a way everybody 's as we discuss things in the in theoretically and out of our notebooks , we 're just we 're actually just each of us discussing something that 's in each of our own minds . it was n't until we had this here , you know , project manager : yeah . marketing : like at one point i peeked across and looked at craig 's paper and i 'm like , now i know what he 's thinking 'cause i saw his book . but the b the b whiteboard could 've actually been this kind of continuing um project manager : so do you think producing a prototype earlier in the process woulda been a good idea ? marketing : think could be , yeah . industrial designer : i think um the the focus of it a lot was the powerpoint as opposed to the to the whiteboard , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : and i think that m um is also does you know hinder us and things i think . marketing : yeah . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : it will be cooler to have the whiteboard rather than the the powerpoint , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : or maybe the whiteboard and the powerpoint in the same place , marketing : yeah . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : you know in the centre of the project manager : okay . marketing : yeah , because the powerpoint was provided to us while we had time to prepare , whereas i can imagine if i 'd been encouraged to use paintbrush , for example , or whatever , i would 've actually used it , project manager : alright . marketing : um 'ca you know , just 'cause that 's sorta how we what we were set up to to use while we had our time . project manager : okay uh industrial designer : i think that there were too many powerpoints in the meetings . 'cause the plug-in and the plugging spent we spent a lot of time doing that . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and a lot of the information on the powerpoints , i do n't think , you know , we needed to actually it could have , we could have gone through it verbally , project manager : yeah . marketing : no , not quite . industrial designer : especially my slides , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i felt that they just you know marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : as opposed to having to present them . marketing : yeah . project manager : what about the digital pens , did you find them easy enough to use ? industrial designer : yep clunky . marketing : sure , yeah . user interface : oh they 're a bit clunky . industrial designer : agreed . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . yep . project manager : clunky , okay . um industrial designer : having to tick it before you go off was a bit hindering as well , 'cause you 're half way through a thought , and then you run out of paper and then you have to jump . project manager : yeah . i know , i think at the very start of today i like wrote a whole load of stuff , did n't click note on one , marketing : yeah . project manager : then went back and wrote one tiny wee thing on the another page , but then did click note , and so i 'm quite worried that i 've just written over the top of it or something , marketing : hmm . hmm . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : but they 'll have my paper anyway um and have n't done that since . industrial designer : but i think the pen is v is very intuitive , everybody knows how to use it , we do n't have to worry . project manager : yeah , marketing : mm-hmm , industrial designer : so i think the pen 's good . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's about the best thing . marketing : user interface : marketing : and o on the topic of the technology , it just occurred to me that we actually did n't need to move our computers because each computer has all of the files . project manager : yeah . marketing : it just occurred to me that they all industrial designer : yeah we only needed one computer and marketing : we only actually needed one computer . project manager : yeah , that 's true . marketing : if there had been a fifth , that coulda just been sitting there ready to go the whole time . user interface : good point . industrial designer : and the computer may not um be conducive to a meeting because um you tend to look at your computer and wan na have the urge to check something , you know , marketing : yeah . yeah . yeah . industrial designer : it 's useful but project manager : yeah . marketing : project manager : do you think the computers just provide distraction in a meeting ? industrial designer : i think too many computers are just distracting . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : um project manager : okay . i know i i like to have things written down in front of me actually , like a lot of the stuff that was emailed to me i ended up you know like writing down there or something so i could look at it really quickly and not have the distraction of all of that , marketing : mm-hmm . yep . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : um i do n't know about anybody else . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um what else uh any wh i do i 'm not really sure what they 're looking for when they say new ideas found . um i do n't know is user interface : is this for the project or project manager : could you think of like anything else that would have been helpful today at all ? marketing : well , the w main one for me is that uh the process na in a natural f context would not have been interrupted by this necessity to discommunicate ourselves from each other . project manager : mm . yeah if we just had uh marketing : so , that 's kind of a new idea for me is like just sort of that idea , well you know it 's kind of s hard to keep f working forward on a team a team based project when when you 're told you must now work away from your team . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah i i dunno i think it was quite good that we had time limits on the meetings because they really could have run on and like my experience with meetings is that they really do , and you can spend a lot of time talking about marketing : oh yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : the only thing is though like when we had our meeting about the conceptual design , i thought there maybe another fifteen minutes would have been useful there but um yeah . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm , mm-hmm . project manager : i really thi i i think maybe if we 'd like all been working in the one room , and they just said you know like every hour or something everybody make sure yo you know just have a have a short meeting and then just c marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : just to have like something written down , just like you know a a milestone if you like um rather than having meetings , but marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : there you go . um so in closing , i have n't got my five minutes to go . thin oh there it i five minutes to go . user interface : project manager : wonderful . okay um are the costs within the budget , yes they are . and is the project evaluated , yes it is . so now celebrate . marketing : great . user interface : industrial designer : and we have ninja homer . marketing : so it so now we user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : project manager : well apparently now i write the final report . what are you guys doing now ? user interface : do we know what the other ones are ? industrial designer : marketing : i i do n't know . project manager : you dunno ? user interface : oh wow . project manager : that is lovely . user interface : hey yeah , i said ninja homer . marketing : what did you call it ? industrial designer : ninja homer . see it looks like homer simpson marketing : huh , huh . industrial designer : but it 's electronic so it 's made in japan . project manager : so is that j is that just is that just a logo or does it do anything ? marketing : logo . user interface : industrial designer : yeah it 's just a logo . project manager : just a logo and then like ninja homer , industrial designer : ninja homer . project manager : right okay . industrial designer : the the red is supposed to represent the whatever else you wan na print on the side of it . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think it 's quite nice . marketing : fashion technology or something . industrial designer : you can wear homer , you can throw homer when you 're frustrated , doh . marketing : hmm , hmm , hmm . user interface : project manager : oh no , that 's cool , it 's got i 'm kind of industrial designer : it 's clunky . project manager : i 'm slightly gutted that we could n't get plastic and rubber , i think that would have been nice . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : ah well , maybe from now on real reaction should give us more money . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh , i did learn something new , play-doh is useful . no it is it is . project manager : play-doh s marketing : industrial designer : it is useful and in in in in in in in um conceptualizing , in being creative . marketing : huh . huh . industrial designer : 'cause like you say , it 's something you can put your hands on and feel and touch and get a sense for . project manager : really ? marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like we were playing with the play-doh and the ideas came with the play-doh rather than with everything else . project manager : did they ? industrial designer : you might wan na write that down . it 's just , i 'm just fiddling with the play-doh , and i 'm going yeah yeah it 's kinda cool . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . play-doh . marketing : no , it 's true , yeah . user interface : guess i 'd forgot how good s play-doh smells . project manager : yeah , it smells funny does n't it . um marketing : hmm . and some play-dohs are actually i think edible are n't they ? industrial designer : no , all play-doh is edible . project manager : yeah like the stuff for user interface : i think they 're all non-toxic 'cause it 's aimed for like two-year-olds . project manager : i think it has to be , yeah . industrial designer : it 's just wheat , it 's the stuff that your mom could make with preservatives and uh project manager : yeah um so to marketing : wow , hmm . project manager : wha what are your summarising words about play-doh ? industrial designer : it 's helpful to the creative process . um it engages all your senses not just your sight , but your sense of feel your sense of touch . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and it helps you to understand marketing : taste . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : dimension as well . i think that that 's very helpful because it it starts to pop up , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : whereas on a piece of paper , on a computer , on a board , um even with a three d_ graphic thing it still , it requires a lot of project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm , yep . yeah . yeah . user interface : it 's not very tangible . industrial designer : yeah tangible , that 's a nice word . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm , industrial designer : it becomes tangible . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : tangible . okay uh industrial designer : project manager : mm . i do n't know if there 's anything else we needed to discuss . industrial designer : nope . project manager : that that 's about it really . just sit still i guess for a little while . marketing : do we retreat to our , to continue our industrial designer : i think we could probably do it here as long as we do n't collaborate . project manager : um marketing : r reporting or what i project manager : well i dunno . um i 'm sure the little uh the little thing 'll pop up any minute now . marketing : industrial designer : can we turn off the microphones ? project manager : yeah , yeah if the meeting 's over then yeah i guess so . </s>
<s> what did marketing think about project manager 's system when evaluating the project ? </s> marketing : sure , um so what is it you 're asking of me now ? project manager : i do n't know , just um your opinion on those four those four points really and how we used them . marketing : or sort of our work on setting this up . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . well , is it uh okay i 'll just go through your system then . the the room uh is fairly institutional , but um the main thing is , i think um our use of this space is more just to report on things as opposed to be creative and constructive and it would probably help to um have l sort of a cumulative effect of we have ideas and we come back and then the ideas are still in discussion , you know , project manager : uh-huh . marketing : as in other words this this room is sort of a centre point of creativity , whereas in reality as we 've gone through this , it 's not really the centre point of creativity , it 's more just a project manager : well d do you feel though that that you were able to have quite a lot of creative input into the thing ? marketing : d debating yeah , yeah but that 's just the thing is the quest in terms of the the first point there , the room , it feels as though the creativity goes on when we leave , and then we come here and then we kind of put out our ideas and then , you know . project manager : but i do n't i do n't think it means the room as in this room . i think it means like you know marketing : oh , oh right right , oh right okay room for creativ project manager : yeah . marketing : oh right i just looked up and saw okay whiteboard , digital pens , the room . project manager : room . oh yeah . marketing : no , of course , yeah . project manager : well i dunno do you th i think it means um i think it means did you feel you were able to give creative input so marketing : sorry . huh . yeah . yeah i th okay on th um yeah dif answering the question uh in those terms i 'd say that actually there 's sort of a tease of creativity because we 're asked to work through this , but actually the guidelines are fairly contrived in terms of um okay fashion trends , say fruit and vegetable colour scheme , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but then i then we 're told okay use the co company company colours . so what do we do . we 're told okay um think in terms of style and look and feel and technology , but build something for twelve and a half pounds , project manager : okay . marketing : so actually the creativity was more more of like a um a f sort of a f formality then an actual industrial designer : you feel like you 're caged within whatever y project manager : okay . marketing : yeah within the constraints industrial designer : it 's like a balloon in a cage , it can only go so big and not hit the side . marketing : the project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : the constraints do come in very fast . project manager : okay uh do you know what , marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : actually let 's take each point and everybody discuss it , i think . marketing : so project manager : yeah . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think of the project ? </s> industrial designer : you feel like you 're caged within whatever y project manager : okay . marketing : yeah within the constraints industrial designer : it 's like a balloon in a cage , it can only go so big and not hit the side . marketing : the project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : the constraints do come in very fast . project manager : okay uh do you know what , marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : actually let 's take each point and everybody discuss it , i think . marketing : so project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so still on the topic of room for creativity uh next up is craig . user interface : um i agree with his point it 's um it is quite a lot of fun t to go and then you have sort of hit the end then go right , got ta cut everything out 'cause we do n't have enough money . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . i think another point is that the meetings um are more brainstorming sessions than meetings , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so time is also a very s um strong factor , and structure . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because for a brainstorming meeting you want a structure that allows you to allows ideas to get tossed , um to be evaluated , and to be reviewed , and to get feedback and come back . marketing : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . yeah , yeah . industrial designer : and i guess that point about the room not being r very friendly to that , i think that 's a very big thing , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and i think the fact that we 're wearing these things restricts marketing : yeah , sure . industrial designer : i feel it 'cause i wear m my glasses , right , and that but that irritates me right project manager : yeah . industrial designer : it it it does actually you know affect how , w whether you feel comfortable to communicate . marketing : yeah . new creativity . industrial designer : i feel like i 'm hiding behind the equipment , rather than the equipment is helping me , and you know . project manager : so you think a more relaxed atmosphere would be more kind of conducive to creative thought or marketing : right . industrial designer : not not so much an atmosphere , the atmosphere is very relaxed , but the the gear project manager : yeah , but actual environment ? industrial designer : yeah you know that creates boundaries to that um and and the time the time given also restricts project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . uh good afternoon . this is our third meeting already . marketing : good afternoon . project manager : i hope you enjoyed your lunch . i did anyway . um let 's see . presentation three . okay this is um the second phase uh we 're going to discuss today . it 's the conceptual design meeting . and a few points of interest in this meeting um are the conceptual specification of components . uh conceptual specification of design . and also trend-watching . um these are hopefully the points you addressed in uh your pre uh presentations you 're going to show me in a few minutes . um but first i 'll show you the agenda . uh first the opening . then we have three presentations . uh after that we have to come to a decision on remote control concepts . how we 're going to make it . and then we 're closing . we have about forty minutes . uh so i suggest let 's get started . uh did someone encounter any problems during the preparation ? no ? everything fine ? that 's nice . then a little uh thing about the last meeting . uh these are the points um we agreed on . the requirements and the target market . uh requirements are uh teletext , docking station , audio signal , small screen , with some extras that uh button information . and we are going to use default materials . um does somebody have any comments on these requirements ? maybe ? no ? these are just the the things we thought of , so maybe if you figured something else or thought of something else , just let me know . and maybe we can uh work it out . and we 're going to target uh sixty to to eighty year old customers . so now everybody knows what we 're do we 're doing , um i suggest let 's get started with the presentations . so shall we keep the same uh line-up as uh last time ? marketing : sure . project manager : okay . marketing : i 'll start off then . project manager : good luck . marketing : doh . 'kay i 'm uh gon na inform you about the trend-watching i 've done over the past few days . um we 've done some market research . we distributed some more enquetes , questionnaires . and um besides that um i deployed some trend-watchers to milan and paris to well get all of the newest trends . and i 've consulted some additional trend-watch trend-watchers , after the original trend-watchers return , about what the the best design would be . um okay these are some overall findings . um most important thing is the fancy design . um the research indicated that that was by far the most important factor . um innovativeness was about half as important as the fancy design . by innovativeness this means um functions which are not featured in other remote controls . um about half of , half as important as the innovativeness was the was easy to use . um for our um group , we 're focusing on the people of sixty to eighty y years old , this is um , these factors are slightly more equal . 'kay these are some more group specific findings . uh the older people prefer dark colours . uh they like recognisable shapes , and familiar material . and our surveys have indicated that especially wood is pretty much the material for older people . um this is , this image will give you a little bit of an impression about um the look-and-feel that um the remote should have . um this leads us to some personal preferences . uh the remote control and the docking station should uh blend in in the in the room . um so this would mean no uh eye-catching designs . just keep it simple and well the docking station and small screen would be our main points of interest , because this would be the these would uh be the innovativeness in the remote control . so this would be very important that we at least include these features . um well the trend-watchers i consulted advised that it b should be , the remote control and the docking station should be telephone-shaped . so you could imagine that uh the remote control will be standing up straight in the docking station . this is not really this is pretty much a new shape to uh older people . so they would prefer uh a design where the remote control just lies flat in the docking station . so it would be kinda more telephone-shaped . um besides that we would advise um to bring two editions , one with a wood-like colour and maybe feel , and one with a grey-black colour . the wood-like for the more uh exclusive people . people with more money . uh the grey-black colour for well people with less means . that would be all . project manager : okay . thank you . any questions about the the trends ? marketing : any questions ? user interface : mm no . project manager : no ? okay , we go on to the next one . user interface : um 'kay um yeah . uh some uh research uh a about um designing of an interface . um the uh last meeting uh we had a about um uh using a f few buttons . so uh um uh that 's w what i what i want to uh uh to do in uh our design . so um finding an attractive uh way to control uh the remote control . um the uh i found some uh something about uh speech uh recognition . so maybe uh we can uh use uh that . um uh and uh using a little uh display . so um findings . um yeah just um we have just to focus on the primary um functions . so uh only uh buttons uh for uh sound , um for uh on-off , um uh shifting u up uh sa uh ca channel or uh down shifting down . um uh let 's see . um yeah and uh we uh need some uh new a attractive functions uh uh which attract uh uh people for using it . so uh it 's uh like a speak uh speech uh recognition and um a special button for selecting uh subtitles . just uh what we uh mentioned uh last uh meeting . um and yeah overall um user-friendly . so uh using uh large large buttons . um it 's uh possible to uh uh to make um quite cheap uh system for uh speech uh recognition . um you can think about um uh when you lost your um remote control , you can uh call it and um it gives an um sig signal . so uh uh yeah . and and uh for uh shifting up a sen uh c ch channel or uh for um uh putting out uh sound or something , you can uh just give a sign uh say um sound off or a and uh yeah . television uh put the sound off uh put the sound off uh . um let 's see . uh yeah . i was thinking about the special uh button for uh subtitles , um just one button to keep it uh simple . uh one push on the button uh you get uh uh small uh subtitles . um double push push um , if double click , um so uh you get uh big uh subtitles , for uh people uh um uh which c f uh who ca n't uh read small uh subtitles . so uh um yeah and w we have to keep uh in general buttons uh so um we 've got um the buttons we have to use . the on-off , sound on-off , sound higher or lower , um the numbers , uh zero to uh uh nine . um the general buttons m more general b one button for shifting up and shifting down uh channel . um also we want to uh use a little d display uh for um for displaying the uh the functions of the buttons . and um we can uh build in a function f which uh shows the channel or some uh which the t television is on . so um made a little uh picture of uh it . um see . um yeah . just um we can put uh the on-off button uh over in this uh corner , um almost uh e all uh remote controls uh are using a on-off button on that place . um so uh people uh will uh recognise uh um the button . industrial designer : user interface : so um d display uh of it , it 's uh just a small display . uh um you can put it uh on top . um it 's uh most uh uh place where people uh , most of looks at . so uh um and a special uh button for shifting up uh and uh shifting down uh channel , um it 's uh on place where um the thumb of of the so you you can uh easily uh shift up or shift down . um it 's uh quite uh handy place . so um and uh all the f functions for subtitle uh one button , uh for sound uh uh and uh for our design , um uh we have to discuss about it uh i think uh so uh the form of it so project manager : okay . user interface : and that 's it . project manager : uh thank you . industrial designer : okay . about the components design . um for the energy source we can use a basic battery or , a as an optional thing , a kinetic energy , like in a watch , which you just shake and it produces energy . but if we choose for that option , the docking station would c become obsolete . so i do n't think it 's really an option . uh for the casing , uh the uh manufacturing department can deliver uh a flat casing , single or double curved casing . it 's really up the the design that we 're gon na use . it 's uh does n't uh imply any technical restrictions . uh as a case supplement , we could um , i thought of that l later , uh a rubber uh belt , like a anti-slip . uh for the b buttons , we can use plastic or rubber . and the chip-set , um it says simple here , but it should be advanced , because we 're using an lcd uh screen . and as uh the trend-watcher presentation showed , um people like wood , but it raises the price and it does n't really fit the image , unless we would start two product lines . form should follow function overall . um well the kinetic energy source is rather fancy . but depends on what we want . i think we should disc discuss that . um for the case , uh the supplement and the buttons , it really depends on the designer . and the chip-set uh really should be advanced because otherwise uh it would really be a simple uh remote control . and that 's it . project manager : okay . thank you . so that brings us to the discussion about our concepts . mm . marketing : project manager : 'kay . so these are the points we have to discuss . um first i think we can talk about the energy source , since that 's um has a pretty big influence on production price , uh and image . uh so uh f i think first of all we have to see uh it is possible to introduce kinetic energy in our budget , i think . industrial designer : yes w there there are four options . we could use the basic normal battery . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : uh a hand dynamo . project manager : okay . industrial designer : but i do n't think that 's really an option . user interface : industrial designer : you do n't wan na swing before you can watch television . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : uh solar cells . but not every room is very light so it 's not a very good option . or the kinetic energy . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : and how exactly does the kinetic energy work ? industrial designer : well y you basically shake your remote , and then it powers up . marketing : you just you use it and it works . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . well personally i do n't think that older people like to shake their remote control before they use it . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . that 's true . marketing : and besides that you mentioned it would make the docking station obsolete . and i think our docking station could be one of the marketing issues with which we can um get great popularity for our product . project manager : yeah . marketing : um wel user interface : what 's the function ? yeah f for loading up uh the batteries . marketing : yeah you could load up the batteries , you could um insert the find the lost remote control function in there . user interface : okay but uh it wo n't use uh much e energy uh i i believe . uh it 's uh just a small display so i believe uh it will run on one battery for um six months or f or or more . so i believe one battery uh is just enough . project manager : uh user interface : uh so project manager : uh well i think uh elderly people just like to have everything in place . marketing : that 's true . project manager : and i do n't think they they like uh remotes just laying everywhere in their rooms . user interface : okay . project manager : so maybe a docking station will help them give the remote a place . user interface : yeah . that 's true . yeah . project manager : and also what you said . um you can introduce voice recognition by uh finding back your remote . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : but i think it 's um more efficient and cheaper to put it in the docking station . user interface : yeah . project manager : so you have a but button on your docking station which you can push , and then it starts beeping . user interface : okay . project manager : and then we can we can still use the voice recognition , but maybe then for only the the channels . user interface : yeah . uh . project manager : that 's safe . marketing : i 'm wondering um what will the voice recognition mean for the production price ? project manager : yeah . that 's a good point . industrial designer : mm i do n't have any information on pricing . so i 'll have to ask the manufacturing department . marketing : 'cause in our earlier um market research , if you 'd allow me to go to the flat board , smartboard . project manager : yeah , sure . go ahead . marketing : um so it was open here . um we also um asked if w they would , if people would pay more for speech recognition in a remote control . well you can see here , our target group would not do that . so if that would increase the price for which we 're selling our remote control i would greatly advise not to do it . project manager : yeah . marketing : i think that would be better to uh insert in our other product , that is meant for the project manager : yeah . marketing : younger people . user interface : 'kay . industrial designer : but that would also go for the lcd screen then i guess . it 's a bit higher percentage , but marketing : um well this is yeah but this is here the question was , would you prefer it . so that does n't really mean they would n't pay extra for it . and on top of that the lcd screen would um help in making the remote control easier to use . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : and i think a voice recognition function would not make the remote control much easier to use . project manager : easier to use ? no , i think that 's a good point . user interface : but uh is uh our uh research um about um bi large uh lcd sh uh display , or uh just a small one uh we want to uh use ? marketing : um well this was for like an lcd screen like you would have on a on the the most advanced mobile phones . user interface : okay . marketing : so pretty large . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i personally think the lcd screen we wan na use , with the extra information , i think nobody has anything against it . because it 's just uh some extra information , and it 's easy to ignore as well . so if you do n't wan na use it you just do n't use it . user interface : yeah . project manager : and um yeah i think the um maybe we have to uh discard the voice recognition . because it will increase cost uh signifi uh significantly . and i do n't think the i do n't think it will be a lot easier to use , as well . user interface : yeah . project manager : so that brings us back to the energy . if we do n't have the voice recognition , it will it wo n't use a lot of energy to use . um user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so in that case we could use kinetic uh energy , but i think just a simple battery which you can reload on a docking station is just as good . and much cheaper as well . user interface : yeah . project manager : so industrial designer : and that 's the best choice . project manager : okay let me just choose for the battery . that brings us to the chip . industrial designer : well there is n't any choice there because we 're using the the the the display . project manager : just the advanced . industrial designer : so it 's got ta be advanced . marketing : 'kay . project manager : , advanced chip . and then we get to the point of the case . um which brings us a little bit back to marketing as well . uh if we wan na choose for wood or the black and grey . or both ? um as we saw there is not yeah wood is a lot more expensive to produce . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um but i think it will attract elderly people who wan na have something exclusive , which they can show off to their grandkids . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : look i 've got a new remote control , and uh industrial designer : user interface : uh i dunno . marketing : well and i think most important factor there is the wooden colour . so it would n't actually have to be wood , project manager : yeah . that 's right . marketing : if it 's just wood-coloured . project manager : but with colour was a lot more expensive ? or ? industrial designer : mm i dunno . project manager : you do n't know ? industrial designer : i 'll have to uh research . project manager : i think so because yeah . marketing : probably . project manager : it 's a lot more difficult to to handle and to to get in the right shape . user interface : mm . uh is it possible uh to make um changeable uh case . so um uh you 'cause uh yeah with uh mobile phones uh uh so uh like the nokia mobile phones , uh when you can change the case of it . project manager : yeah . change the cases . yeah . user interface : maybe it 's possible uh possibility . so um um you have just to make one um standard um remote control , and um yeah you can sell uh few uh project manager : you can sell the cases . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . i think that 's a very good option . because um then you can advertise as well with the give your grandfather a new case for his remote control , or whatever . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : because that 's a it 's something extra , it 's something other remotes do n't have , user interface : yeah . project manager : which we can get a great advantage point . marketing : yeah that is true . project manager : so and then you can make them with colour . black and grey , other colours as well . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . we would have to look carefully into the design though . project manager : costs . marketing : 'cause we would have to make one w uh control which would fit in with a wooden cover and a plastic cover . the more original one , or the more standard one . project manager : yeah . yeah . so marketing : so that would project manager : you suggest we should design two different telephones on which you can apply , yeah remote controls , on which you can apply different case covers , for example . marketing : well i would n't design a telephone industrial designer : marketing : but user interface : marketing : well no i think w we should just , we should then just design one um project manager : remote . marketing : one remote , but it would have to be fancy with either the wood cover or the plastic one . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : so , but that should n't be too much of a problem . project manager : so everybody 's okay with the changing covers ? i think that 's a good uh good option . user interface : yeah . project manager : changing case covers . marketing : um i heard our industrial designer talk about uh flat , single and double curved . project manager : yeah . marketing : could you explain that a little more ? industrial designer : well the the general like most older remotes are flat , just straight . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh our d manufacturing department can also deliver single curved or double curved ca curved cases . marketing : and what would single curved and double curved mean ? industrial designer : um it would just only affect the form , for as far as i know . so it 's j really just up to the design department what we 're gon na use . it does n't really matter for the price or the functionality . marketing : okay . so we can pretty much just do whatever we want . industrial designer : pick one you like , yes . project manager : mm . okay . marketing : 'kay . that 's good . project manager : uh but the form has to be um it has to it 's has to be possible to stand up ? or just only to lie down ? marketing : no just to lie down . user interface : okay . project manager : and the the cover of the the docking station is also marketing : we 'll go for that . project manager : on top of the television then ? or not ? marketing : well or besides it . project manager : and you can just yeah then click it in . that 's okay . um so the interface . what type of interface do we want to use ? um maybe you can make a little drawing of it on the marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : on the the board . does somebody have ideas for a form or user interface : uh we can just use the regular form of it , but it 's um not quite uh fancy . so um yeah . marketing : um you uh said you wanted to put the um changing channels button on the right side , user interface : yeah . marketing : so you could , so your thumb would be easily user interface : yeah . marketing : well uh i think that was a very good point 'cause i pointed out earlier that a lot of remotes cause r_s_i_ . so that would be great for that . um i thought maybe we could just make one of those buttons on both the left and the right side . user interface : for uh uh for marketing : for left-handed users also . user interface : yeah yeah . mm . yeah we is it possible to um program it s so uh you got on the left side uh or on the right side uh buttons for for shifting u up and shifting up ? and on the uh other uh uh o other side uh buttons for uh shifting , uh for for the sound ? or or is n't it ? marketing : for the volume . um well that could yeah we could do that but i 'm not sure if that would be very good for the easy , ease of use . project manager : usabili yeah ease of use will be a lot more difficult , user interface : yeah okay . project manager : and then it 's marketing : but if we would make um a changing channels and changing volume button on both sides , that would certainly yield great options for the design of the remote . 'cause it could be made all symmetrical and stuff . project manager : but you have extra buttons . user interface : but project manager : so people can get confused . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : that is true . user interface : yeah . project manager : especially if they have the same writings on it . user interface : see um yeah . or we have to make a left uh for lefties project manager : ca n't we make uh ca n't we make a remote which you can flip over and use on the same user interface : and um project manager : functions as the normal one ? user interface : you mean um project manager : then you have to user interface : yeah if project manager : let 's see if i ca a blank one . and then you get here 's a little lcd screen . uh now i have to think . it 's a plus and a min . no it 's not very handy i think . because the plus and the min will be opposite user interface : mm no . project manager : and all kinds of user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : no that 's not gon na work . i guess . maybe we should user interface : um project manager : yeah . but is it a problem that left-handed persons use a different hand ? i think the functions are that basic that nobody should have any problems with uh choosing a channel marketing : yeah . that is true . project manager : or user interface : yeah . it 's just uh u using uh your thumb . project manager : y yeah . yeah . user interface : so um it 's project manager : i think we could just uh leave it a normal shape . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh but maybe we have to make it a l a bit more fancy . in one or ano another way . user interface : yeah . um industrial designer : i think we should start by by choosing a case . because that 's the basis you 're building on . user interface : yeah yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : um yeah industrial designer : so i could draw them out . project manager : just industrial designer : let 's look at the flat case . oh . it 's from the side so it 's rather normal . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the the single curved so i 'm not really sure what they 're gon na look like , but i think it 's something like this . so this type should be better for you or better should prevent repetitive strain injury a bit . project manager : easier ? industrial designer : and the double curved s looks something like this i guess . so th those are the three options we have . project manager : 'kay . i suggest um the single curved , because maybe the curve is pretty good to put the the screen in . uh so that elderly people can uh use the remote control and at the same time look easily at the screen , because it 's a bit , it has a bit of a angle . user interface : so um do you say this um s uh uh you got like uh sort of a i believe there ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so um you want to put a display over here ? or not ? project manager : yeah . i think so . yeah . user interface : yeah . um yeah . uh project manager : but now it 's user interface : we can make it um project manager : do you have it upside down or do you have it user interface : that 's the top . project manager : this that 's top ? okay . user interface : so uh this top . this down . um maybe it 's possible to uh make this side like um let 's see . um colour uh okay . uh to make this side um like mm the right colour . project manager : user interface : um bit like so uh um in the form of your hand . so um uh it 's an project manager : yeah . user interface : so so the remote control have to um lay in your hand . so uh it 's possib um yeah for s so and project manager : so get your mouse . yeah . user interface : and to put uh the the buttons for um changing uh the channel uh over here uh project manager : yeah . that 's a good one . but i think it 's better to put the screen uh on top . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh rem project manager : so just flip it a hundred and eighty degrees around then you get here . user interface : yeah but this place um project manager : if you can have this one , you turn it like this . and then flip it upside down . user interface : uh it 's yeah i dunno um project manager : because uh maybe your hand is in the way , if you have the display here . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's more logical to have it on top as well project manager : i think i industrial designer : because , like on your mobile phone , it 's always above . user interface : yeah so project manager : on top . marketing : yeah . user interface : so project manager : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : oh maybe you should just s start on a blank page . project manager : . so marketing : yeah . project manager : then we get here 's that 's the curve . user interface : five minutes . project manager : here the display , and then buttons . yeah and then we can have a little bit off here and here maybe . just that 's for left hand and right hand users . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then h the rest of the buttons over here . user interface : yeah . but um the on-off button , um still on the top uh project manager : yeah still here user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : that 's marketing : and i 'd prefer the corners to be round . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . 'kay . project manager : should be more bit more friendly , marketing : think that would be better . project manager : yeah . marketing : friendly on the eye . project manager : 'kay . supplements . that 's okay . where 's my mouse ? then we 've got a general idea of the concepts and the materials we 're going to use . so now for the next meeting uh we 'll have to look at the look-and-feel design . it 's important that the corporate design image uh is going to be in the remote . so check out the corporate website maybe . the user interface design , it 's the same story . and product evaluation . so the industrial designer and user interface designer are going to work together on this one . but you 're going to get your instructions i think sended by the coach . so just um i will put these um minutes on the in the folder . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and then we 're going to uh try to finish our project , and uh make a good design for all the grandfathers and grandmothers , i think . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : which are uh let 's see . i 'm not sure if you 're going to start right away to work together or i think you 're going to fill in the questionnaires first . user interface : yeah . project manager : and then you 'll get a message . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so that 's uh basically it . maybe this one ? then we can save this one in the folders group . uh yes , it 's here . marketing : yeah . project manager : smartboard , there it it . so if you wan na have a look at it , it 's over there in the projects folder . user interface : yeah . project manager : and then i guess we 'll start in thirty minutes again . thank you . marketing : very good . </s>
<s> why did marketing disagree with kinetic energy as a solution proposed by industrial designer ? </s> marketing : and how exactly does the kinetic energy work ? industrial designer : well y you basically shake your remote , and then it powers up . marketing : you just you use it and it works . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . well personally i do n't think that older people like to shake their remote control before they use it . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . that 's true . marketing : and besides that you mentioned it would make the docking station obsolete . and i think our docking station could be one of the marketing issues with which we can um get great popularity for our product . project manager : yeah . marketing : um wel user interface : what 's the function ? yeah f for loading up uh the batteries . marketing : yeah you could load up the batteries , you could um insert the find the lost remote control function in there . </s>
<s> why did the group discard voice recognition function ? </s> project manager : and also what you said . um you can introduce voice recognition by uh finding back your remote . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : but i think it 's um more efficient and cheaper to put it in the docking station . user interface : yeah . project manager : so you have a but button on your docking station which you can push , and then it starts beeping . user interface : okay . project manager : and then we can we can still use the voice recognition , but maybe then for only the the channels . user interface : yeah . uh . project manager : that 's safe . marketing : i 'm wondering um what will the voice recognition mean for the production price ? project manager : yeah . that 's a good point . industrial designer : mm i do n't have any information on pricing . so i 'll have to ask the manufacturing department . marketing : 'cause in our earlier um market research , if you 'd allow me to go to the flat board , smartboard . project manager : yeah , sure . go ahead . marketing : um so it was open here . um we also um asked if w they would , if people would pay more for speech recognition in a remote control . well you can see here , our target group would not do that . so if that would increase the price for which we 're selling our remote control i would greatly advise not to do it . project manager : yeah . marketing : i think that would be better to uh insert in our other product , that is meant for the project manager : yeah . marketing : younger people . user interface : 'kay . industrial designer : but that would also go for the lcd screen then i guess . it 's a bit higher percentage , but marketing : um well this is yeah but this is here the question was , would you prefer it . so that does n't really mean they would n't pay extra for it . and on top of that the lcd screen would um help in making the remote control easier to use . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : and i think a voice recognition function would not make the remote control much easier to use . project manager : easier to use ? no , i think that 's a good point . user interface : but uh is uh our uh research um about um bi large uh lcd sh uh display , or uh just a small one uh we want to uh use ? marketing : um well this was for like an lcd screen like you would have on a on the the most advanced mobile phones . user interface : okay . marketing : so pretty large . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i personally think the lcd screen we wan na use , with the extra information , i think nobody has anything against it . because it 's just uh some extra information , and it 's easy to ignore as well . so if you do n't wan na use it you just do n't use it . user interface : yeah . project manager : and um yeah i think the um maybe we have to uh discard the voice recognition . because it will increase cost uh signifi uh significantly . and i do n't think the i do n't think it will be a lot easier to use , as well . user interface : yeah . project manager : so that brings us back to the energy . if we do n't have the voice recognition , it will it wo n't use a lot of energy to use . um user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so in that case we could use kinetic uh energy , but i think just a simple battery which you can reload on a docking station is just as good . and much cheaper as well . user interface : yeah . project manager : so </s>
<s> summarize the group discussion about case design . </s> project manager : , advanced chip . and then we get to the point of the case . um which brings us a little bit back to marketing as well . uh if we wan na choose for wood or the black and grey . or both ? um as we saw there is not yeah wood is a lot more expensive to produce . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : um but i think it will attract elderly people who wan na have something exclusive , which they can show off to their grandkids . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : look i 've got a new remote control , and uh industrial designer : user interface : uh i dunno . marketing : well and i think most important factor there is the wooden colour . so it would n't actually have to be wood , project manager : yeah . that 's right . marketing : if it 's just wood-coloured . project manager : but with colour was a lot more expensive ? or ? industrial designer : mm i dunno . project manager : you do n't know ? industrial designer : i 'll have to uh research . project manager : i think so because yeah . marketing : probably . project manager : it 's a lot more difficult to to handle and to to get in the right shape . user interface : mm . uh is it possible uh to make um changeable uh case . so um uh you 'cause uh yeah with uh mobile phones uh uh so uh like the nokia mobile phones , uh when you can change the case of it . project manager : yeah . change the cases . yeah . user interface : maybe it 's possible uh possibility . so um um you have just to make one um standard um remote control , and um yeah you can sell uh few uh project manager : you can sell the cases . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . i think that 's a very good option . because um then you can advertise as well with the give your grandfather a new case for his remote control , or whatever . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : because that 's a it 's something extra , it 's something other remotes do n't have , user interface : yeah . project manager : which we can get a great advantage point . marketing : yeah that is true . project manager : so and then you can make them with colour . black and grey , other colours as well . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . we would have to look carefully into the design though . project manager : costs . marketing : 'cause we would have to make one w uh control which would fit in with a wooden cover and a plastic cover . the more original one , or the more standard one . project manager : yeah . yeah . so marketing : so that would project manager : you suggest we should design two different telephones on which you can apply , yeah remote controls , on which you can apply different case covers , for example . marketing : well i would n't design a telephone industrial designer : marketing : but user interface : marketing : well no i think w we should just , we should then just design one um project manager : remote . marketing : one remote , but it would have to be fancy with either the wood cover or the plastic one . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : so , but that should n't be too much of a problem . project manager : so everybody 's okay with the changing covers ? i think that 's a good uh good option . user interface : yeah . project manager : changing case covers . marketing : um i heard our industrial designer talk about uh flat , single and double curved . project manager : yeah . marketing : could you explain that a little more ? industrial designer : well the the general like most older remotes are flat , just straight . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh our d manufacturing department can also deliver single curved or double curved ca curved cases . marketing : and what would single curved and double curved mean ? industrial designer : um it would just only affect the form , for as far as i know . so it 's j really just up to the design department what we 're gon na use . it does n't really matter for the price or the functionality . marketing : okay . so we can pretty much just do whatever we want . industrial designer : pick one you like , yes . project manager : mm . okay . marketing : 'kay . that 's good . project manager : uh but the form has to be um it has to it 's has to be possible to stand up ? or just only to lie down ? marketing : no just to lie down . user interface : okay . project manager : and the the cover of the the docking station is also marketing : we 'll go for that . project manager : on top of the television then ? or not ? marketing : well or besides it . project manager : and you can just yeah then click it in . that 's okay . um so the interface . what type of interface do we want to use ? um maybe you can make a little drawing of it on the marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : on the the board . does somebody have ideas for a form or user interface : uh we can just use the regular form of it , but it 's um not quite uh fancy . so um yeah . marketing : um you uh said you wanted to put the um changing channels button on the right side , user interface : yeah . marketing : so you could , so your thumb would be easily user interface : yeah . marketing : well uh i think that was a very good point 'cause i pointed out earlier that a lot of remotes cause r_s_i_ . so that would be great for that . um i thought maybe we could just make one of those buttons on both the left and the right side . user interface : for uh uh for marketing : for left-handed users also . user interface : yeah yeah . mm . yeah we is it possible to um program it s so uh you got on the left side uh or on the right side uh buttons for for shifting u up and shifting up ? and on the uh other uh uh o other side uh buttons for uh shifting , uh for for the sound ? or or is n't it ? marketing : for the volume . um well that could yeah we could do that but i 'm not sure if that would be very good for the easy , ease of use . project manager : usabili yeah ease of use will be a lot more difficult , user interface : yeah okay . project manager : and then it 's marketing : but if we would make um a changing channels and changing volume button on both sides , that would certainly yield great options for the design of the remote . 'cause it could be made all symmetrical and stuff . project manager : but you have extra buttons . user interface : but project manager : so people can get confused . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : that is true . user interface : yeah . project manager : especially if they have the same writings on it . user interface : see um yeah . or we have to make a left uh for lefties project manager : ca n't we make uh ca n't we make a remote which you can flip over and use on the same user interface : and um project manager : functions as the normal one ? user interface : you mean um project manager : then you have to user interface : yeah if project manager : let 's see if i ca a blank one . and then you get here 's a little lcd screen . uh now i have to think . it 's a plus and a min . no it 's not very handy i think . because the plus and the min will be opposite user interface : mm no . project manager : and all kinds of user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : no that 's not gon na work . i guess . maybe we should user interface : um project manager : yeah . but is it a problem that left-handed persons use a different hand ? i think the functions are that basic that nobody should have any problems with uh choosing a channel marketing : yeah . that is true . project manager : or user interface : yeah . it 's just uh u using uh your thumb . project manager : y yeah . yeah . user interface : so um it 's project manager : i think we could just uh leave it a normal shape . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh but maybe we have to make it a l a bit more fancy . in one or ano another way . user interface : yeah . um industrial designer : i think we should start by by choosing a case . because that 's the basis you 're building on . user interface : yeah yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : um yeah industrial designer : so i could draw them out . project manager : just industrial designer : let 's look at the flat case . oh . it 's from the side so it 's rather normal . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : the the single curved so i 'm not really sure what they 're gon na look like , but i think it 's something like this . so this type should be better for you or better should prevent repetitive strain injury a bit . project manager : easier ? industrial designer : and the double curved s looks something like this i guess . so th those are the three options we have . project manager : 'kay . i suggest um the single curved , because maybe the curve is pretty good to put the the screen in . uh so that elderly people can uh use the remote control and at the same time look easily at the screen , because it 's a bit , it has a bit of a angle . user interface : so um do you say this um s uh uh you got like uh sort of a i believe there ? marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so um you want to put a display over here ? or not ? project manager : yeah . i think so . yeah . user interface : yeah . um yeah . uh project manager : but now it 's user interface : we can make it um project manager : do you have it upside down or do you have it user interface : that 's the top . project manager : this that 's top ? okay . user interface : so uh this top . this down . um maybe it 's possible to uh make this side like um let 's see . um colour uh okay . uh to make this side um like mm the right colour . project manager : user interface : um bit like so uh um in the form of your hand . so um uh it 's an project manager : yeah . user interface : so so the remote control have to um lay in your hand . so uh it 's possib um yeah for s so and project manager : so get your mouse . yeah . user interface : and to put uh the the buttons for um changing uh the channel uh over here uh project manager : yeah . that 's a good one . but i think it 's better to put the screen uh on top . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : uh rem project manager : so just flip it a hundred and eighty degrees around then you get here . user interface : yeah but this place um project manager : if you can have this one , you turn it like this . and then flip it upside down . user interface : uh it 's yeah i dunno um project manager : because uh maybe your hand is in the way , if you have the display here . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it 's more logical to have it on top as well project manager : i think i industrial designer : because , like on your mobile phone , it 's always above . user interface : yeah so project manager : on top . marketing : yeah . user interface : so project manager : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : oh maybe you should just s start on a blank page . project manager : . so marketing : yeah . project manager : then we get here 's that 's the curve . user interface : five minutes . project manager : here the display , and then buttons . yeah and then we can have a little bit off here and here maybe . just that 's for left hand and right hand users . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then h the rest of the buttons over here . user interface : yeah . but um the on-off button , um still on the top uh project manager : yeah still here user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : that 's marketing : and i 'd prefer the corners to be round . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . 'kay . project manager : should be more bit more friendly , marketing : think that would be better . project manager : yeah . </s>
<s> what decision did the group make on changeable cases when discussing case design ? </s> user interface : mm . uh is it possible uh to make um changeable uh case . so um uh you 'cause uh yeah with uh mobile phones uh uh so uh like the nokia mobile phones , uh when you can change the case of it . project manager : yeah . change the cases . yeah . user interface : maybe it 's possible uh possibility . so um um you have just to make one um standard um remote control , and um yeah you can sell uh few uh project manager : you can sell the cases . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . i think that 's a very good option . because um then you can advertise as well with the give your grandfather a new case for his remote control , or whatever . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : because that 's a it 's something extra , it 's something other remotes do n't have , user interface : yeah . project manager : which we can get a great advantage point . marketing : yeah that is true . project manager : so and then you can make them with colour . black and grey , other colours as well . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . we would have to look carefully into the design though . project manager : costs . marketing : 'cause we would have to make one w uh control which would fit in with a wooden cover and a plastic cover . the more original one , or the more standard one . project manager : yeah . yeah . so marketing : so that would project manager : you suggest we should design two different telephones on which you can apply , yeah remote controls , on which you can apply different case covers , for example . marketing : well i would n't design a telephone industrial designer : marketing : but user interface : marketing : well no i think w we should just , we should then just design one um project manager : remote . marketing : one remote , but it would have to be fancy with either the wood cover or the plastic one . project manager : yeah . okay . marketing : so , but that should n't be too much of a problem . project manager : so everybody 's okay with the changing covers ? i think that 's a good uh good option . user interface : yeah . project manager : changing case covers . marketing : um i heard our industrial designer talk about uh flat , single and double curved . project manager : yeah . marketing : could you explain that a little more ? industrial designer : well the the general like most older remotes are flat , just straight . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh our d manufacturing department can also deliver single curved or double curved ca curved cases . marketing : and what would single curved and double curved mean ? industrial designer : um it would just only affect the form , for as far as i know . so it 's j really just up to the design department what we 're gon na use . it does n't really matter for the price or the functionality . marketing : okay . so we can pretty much just do whatever we want . industrial designer : pick one you like , yes . project manager : mm . okay . marketing : 'kay . that 's good . project manager : uh but the form has to be um it has to it 's has to be possible to stand up ? or just only to lie down ? marketing : no just to lie down . user interface : okay . project manager : and the the cover of the the docking station is also marketing : we 'll go for that . project manager : on top of the television then ? or not ? marketing : well or besides it . project manager : and you can just yeah then click it in . that 's okay . um so the interface . what type of interface do we want to use ? um maybe you can make a little drawing of it on the marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : on the the board . does somebody have ideas for a form or user interface : uh we can just use the regular form of it , but it 's um not quite uh fancy . so um yeah . marketing : um you uh said you wanted to put the um changing channels button on the right side , user interface : yeah . marketing : so you could , so your thumb would be easily user interface : yeah . marketing : well uh i think that was a very good point 'cause i pointed out earlier that a lot of remotes cause r_s_i_ . so that would be great for that . um i thought maybe we could just make one of those buttons on both the left and the right side . user interface : for uh uh for marketing : for left-handed users also . user interface : yeah yeah . mm . yeah we is it possible to um program it s so uh you got on the left side uh or on the right side uh buttons for for shifting u up and shifting up ? and on the uh other uh uh o other side uh buttons for uh shifting , uh for for the sound ? or or is n't it ? marketing : for the volume . um well that could yeah we could do that but i 'm not sure if that would be very good for the easy , ease of use . project manager : usabili yeah ease of use will be a lot more difficult , user interface : yeah okay . project manager : and then it 's marketing : but if we would make um a changing channels and changing volume button on both sides , that would certainly yield great options for the design of the remote . 'cause it could be made all symmetrical and stuff . project manager : but you have extra buttons . user interface : but project manager : so people can get confused . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : that is true . user interface : yeah . project manager : especially if they have the same writings on it . user interface : see um yeah . or we have to make a left uh for lefties project manager : ca n't we make uh ca n't we make a remote which you can flip over and use on the same user interface : and um project manager : functions as the normal one ? </s>
<s> why did the group give up the idea of positioning symmetrical buttons on both the left and right side ? </s> marketing : so that would be great for that . um i thought maybe we could just make one of those buttons on both the left and the right side . user interface : for uh uh for marketing : for left-handed users also . user interface : yeah yeah . mm . yeah we is it possible to um program it s so uh you got on the left side uh or on the right side uh buttons for for shifting u up and shifting up ? and on the uh other uh uh o other side uh buttons for uh shifting , uh for for the sound ? or or is n't it ? marketing : for the volume . um well that could yeah we could do that but i 'm not sure if that would be very good for the easy , ease of use . project manager : usabili yeah ease of use will be a lot more difficult , user interface : yeah okay . project manager : and then it 's marketing : but if we would make um a changing channels and changing volume button on both sides , that would certainly yield great options for the design of the remote . 'cause it could be made all symmetrical and stuff . project manager : but you have extra buttons . user interface : but project manager : so people can get confused . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : that is true . user interface : yeah . project manager : especially if they have the same writings on it . user interface : see um yeah . or we have to make a left uh for lefties project manager : ca n't we make uh ca n't we make a remote which you can flip over and use on the same user interface : and um project manager : functions as the normal one ? user interface : you mean um project manager : then you have to user interface : yeah if project manager : let 's see if i ca a blank one . and then you get here 's a little lcd screen . uh now i have to think . it 's a plus and a min . no it 's not very handy i think . because the plus and the min will be opposite user interface : mm no . project manager : and all kinds of user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : no that 's not gon na work . i guess . maybe we should user interface : um project manager : yeah . but is it a problem that left-handed persons use a different hand ? i think the functions are that basic that nobody should have any problems with uh choosing a channel marketing : yeah . that is true . project manager : or user interface : yeah . it 's just uh u using uh your thumb . project manager : y yeah . yeah . user interface : so um it 's project manager : i think we could just uh leave it a normal shape . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh but maybe we have to make it a l a bit more fancy . in one or ano another way . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so we are here for the concept design meeting . so , we will first start by summarizing the mm the previous meeting and the decision we 've taken . uh i will take notes during this meeting so uh that you can uh look at my uh folder to see the summary of this meeting afterwards . so each of you will uh show us the various investigation they 've done during uh previous uh hours . we 'll then t take decision in concert and then uh uh we will uh define the nest next task , to have to be done before the next meeting . so , last time we decided to have a simple interface . we also decided to have a wheel to change channel previous channel button . channel digit uh buttons should be uh protected by plastic cover or something for the remote control to look very simple . we have also button for volume , and to switch on off the tv . we have also uh the lightening feature for the remote control to be easy to find , and for fast development and low cost we have decided to have no lcd no voice features . so now uh we will have three presentations . so the conceptual specification by industrial designer , the specification of the u_i_ by or u_i_ user interface : abdul al-hasred is my name . project manager : okay . and uh the last point is uh trend watching by market expert . so maybe we can start with uh industrial design . so this is the presentation . industrial designer : uh , i_d_ you want ? project manager : maybe i can switch slide uh on your request . industrial designer : yeah . i only v have three slides , so . i just look at the mm um just this . on some web pages to find some documentation project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and i think a remote control is , as i s mentioned previously , you just have a a very simple chip and the mm the user interface is just done usually by push button and in our case we are using a um a wheel control . so uh uh i was looking basically for that chip , which is uh very very standard , and uh i just looked for the wheel sensor and the standard push button . and um yeah we can change directly . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : in fact i have the number of that element which is very standard for remote control . the push button are usually extremely cheap , but i just have one problem and this is related with the wheel sensor , which seems to be quite expensive . project manager : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and i think we if we could just talk about that if we really need a wheel sensor or if we can not if if we could combine something with the push button . project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh a wheel sensor is fifty time the price of a a a push button . user interface : yeah . project manager : but is it a significant price on the whole remote control ? because we can afford up to twelve euros for the price of the remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah project manager : so will will will this with uh including all possible things , so buttons , wheel and the chip , be uh lower than twelve euros to produce ? industrial designer : i i th but i do n't think that uh we should we should talk about uh the design of the box also which needs some money . user interface : yeah . also have to say industrial designer : but user interface : did you receive the email about the voice recognition ? industrial designer : um that 's all project manager : you received something industrial designer : yeah . i have n't chec user interface : yeah . you we uh an email from the manufacturing division that they have basically a voice recognition chip already developed . says yeah . it says that ri right now they just use it to uh to record uh answers to particular questions . but i guess it could be project manager : and could it be adapted ? user interface : i guess it 's possible . i mean instead of recording the answers you can just uh record uh something simpler like a command . project manager : okay and there can uh recognize some commands and stuff ? user interface : yeah you reco recognize commands and you can record new commands and stuff , so if they already have it as uh as a chip project manager : okay . yeah . user interface : then we we could use it . project manager : okay maybe we can just uh listen to this presentation and then take decision later on according to those news . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah but i think it 's yeah sorry , i have n't written my personal references . um the i i just want to mention the the problem of the the r wheels sensor which is much more expensive than any push button , project manager : okay . industrial designer : and if we could reduce that . we we have already some good things uh with um um with the backlight of the push button . user interface : mm-hmm . i have a question about that actually . um , what is the purpose of the light ? industrial designer : just to to make something which is uh slightly more design that uh a squarey box with a rubber user interface : is project manager : you can easily find the button in the dark or so ? user interface : but but in th in the dark uh yeah but is going to be always turned on , the light ? project manager : it will be turned on when the when the user move the remote control i think , no ? user interface : but if you move it then you have it , you do n't need to find it . you can see the buttons better , of course . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . true . industrial designer : yeah . actually . user interface : but if you move it then you have to have some sensor to when you move it to detect your movement . industrial designer : as soon as you thought to move the the remote control you have the light . user interface : yeah , but you need another sensor for that , right ? industrial designer : yeah . again . user interface : yeah no it 's too expensive . industrial designer : i do n't think that this is really expensive , but at the end this is plenty of unexpen eh very cheap devices but uh the bill starts to be user interface : okay . mm . extra . yeah , okay . mm . yeah , but i expected also the wheel would be cheap but you tell me that it is very expensive so , industrial designer : first of all i was thinking to have a a continuous light user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and you w when t you you you you press the on button you have the light on your remote control , when you want to turn off your device user interface : mm . mm-hmm . project manager : but it can be uh battery consuming , no ? to have the light always on ? industrial designer : yeah , a little bit . a little bit . project manager : well we will discuss that after maybe industrial designer : yeah . project manager : the other presentations . user interface : . so uh my one , it uh should be in the shared folder . project manager : yeah . user interface : so . it was last time i saw it . project manager : and it is . user interface : okay . so , project manager : okay . user interface : just move to the next slide . so basically want very simple , right ? that 's the major idea , as simple as possible . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : so i just look at some current designs uh on the web , of usually more complicated remote controls . and let 's look at two of them because uh th even though they have many buttons they look quite simple . and in our case we just uh reject the buttons what we do n't need and it become even simpler . project manager : yeah . user interface : um . so . project manager : and also does it uh fit well in hand ? because it was uh th your wrist problem with the usage . user interface : yeah . well this these uh these remotes are quite big , so go to the next page , so . we have all these buttons as you can see , but most of them , we just need the ones in the middle . project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so , from the bottom or whatever is there , uh the uh the numbers and then the top , uh until the ten also , this middle part , project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : and on the left one is exactly the same . so it 's basically more or less how we would like it , with a big volume control , big channel control , and mute and power , yeah ? project manager : yeah . user interface : these are the basic thing . project manager : so it 's only the central part . user interface : so basically , w software we will build will look more or less the same as these two . project manager : yeah . with a maybe a more ergonomic design on on the bottom part . user interface : yeah , if you have , for example i think that the volume and the buttons that are there on the top are not very easy to reach with your thumb . project manager : yeah . user interface : it could be on the right side , for example . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . because we do n't have these input buttons and this other stuff that they have . and i think that the plastic cover is not very good uh idea because project manager : okay . user interface : you open it , it can break , you ca you can do various things . project manager : okay . s user interface : uh you just need to put the channel numbers somewhere a bit out of the way . project manager : okay . will be down or user interface : so that they 're separate a bit , project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . uh and it 's easy to press the other the big buttons , but uh , it 's not that difficult to press the the channel buttons either . mm . yeah , i think that if you put the cover it will be even more difficult for the user . project manager : okay . user interface : alright , you wo n't yeah . usually what i have noticed that people put the plastic cover on things that you normally do n't mess with , like buttons for t uh tuning the channels and stuff like that . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . that you want to protect a bit . and i think it 's uh it 's reasonable . project manager : okay . user interface : so , i do n't think yeah , this is just the the wheel . we could use the some wheels can be pushed down , could use the push down of the wheel for the record if we want . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : uh so we could just basically use one just wheel and uh user could use just the wheel to do everything with the channels in that case . project manager : yeah . maybe the wheel will be a good advantage over our competitors . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : because otherwise it 's pretty standard apart the fact that it 's very simple . so maybe it 's worse to uh to have more expense on that 's that aspect . industrial designer : to s mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , i guess the market researcher will tell us all about that . project manager : okay . so we can move to the is there any question ? for designer of user interface ? or we can move to the next part , maybe , and discuss afterwards ? okay . marketing : okay , i can go ? project manager : yeah . marketing : can i ? so now the recent investigation we we have done fo of the remote control um . so , the most important aspect for remote controls is to be fancy look and feel and not current functional look and feel . and um the second aspect is uh that the remote control should be uh technological innovative . project manager : okay . marketing : and the third most important aspect is to to is that the co remote control should be easy to use . so , are things we are we have uh speak about before . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . and um so you you can go project manager : yeah . marketing : after . and there is a fashion watchers in paris and milan that have detected the following trends , uh fruits and vegetables will be the most important theme for clothes , shoes , and furnitures . so , maybe if our remote control have to be a fruit form or vegetable form project manager : okay . marketing : something like that , or industrial designer : i support an apple . marketing : and the mm the material is expected to be spongy . project manager : marketing : uh i do n't know which material can be spongy , project manager : yeah . marketing : and if you project manager : this is good also for user interface : well , wou wou i think we can certainly just put the electronics in a spongy thing , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it it would work , right ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think it is good also f to have a spongy material , yeah . user interface : you can throw it to the television . project manager : yeah , because it 's robust . marketing : okay industrial designer : yeah . me too . marketing : it 's robust , yeah . user interface : hey that 's a cool one . we could say that if you throw it , you have a sensor , and you throw it and hits the television and turns it off . project manager : marketing : user interface : when it d uh takes a shock . marketing : not good . project manager : uh sorry ? industrial designer : ah it 's okay . i know that they do that for alarm clock also . user interface : yeah . marketing : an and and uh this uh you can yeah you can say that . you ca uh you can go uh before project manager : no . yeah . before ? marketing : , before , yes . and you know here the more iz important aspect is the fancy look and feel , after is uh technological innovative , and after the easy to use . project manager : yeah . yeah . yeah . i think it 's innovative to use the mm the wheel because i think no one else has . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's why project manager : has it ? marketing : yeah that 's why i think we have to keep that if it 's possible . project manager : yeah . i think it 's it makes it both easy and both innos innovative . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : innovative . mm . project manager : so i think it 's a good aspect and it should be kept . user interface : how do we make it look cool is the question . project manager : cool , fancy ? user interface : yeah . project manager : we have to make it l look like a fruit or vegetable . user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe uh um a colour that remember some fruit uh , things like that . industrial designer : what about um marketing : mm . oh , colour , yeah . user interface : well the obvious thing is a banana , i guess . marketing : oh i i project manager : maybe yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i thought about a a pear , for example . you know the pear , is like that and it 's it 's easy to to have in in hand project manager : yeah , and it 's ergonomic as well . marketing : and uh yeah . project manager : a pear . user interface : the banana is also ergonomic . marketing : project manager : yeah . maybe pear yeah or something like that . marketing : or a fruit like that . i dunno . project manager : yeah . we can discuss that uh . d d is is there anything you want to add ? user interface : is there any fruit that is spongy ? marketing : project manager : i do n't think so . i think we we can have like yeah a pear is good , fit well , or banana as you told . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : something like that . industrial designer : and for maybe look and feel , what about a a piece of ice , with blue l_e_d_ inside ? project manager : but that 's not in the trend . . user interface : you can make it um marketing : project manager : the trend is spongy , and vegetable fruits . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : it 's not hard , the metal . marketing : project manager : i think p spongy is good because it it will be robust as well . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : user interface : plastic . project manager : so , i think we can keep the wheel because it 's uh easy , it 's innovative , even if the cost is a bit higher , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and we also have to find a , so , a fruit like pear or banana wit uh any others idea you have . what kind of fr fruit would you like to to control your tv with ? marketing : industrial designer : banana i think , it 's a nice idea . project manager : banana is also yellow so you you ca n't lost your remote control then . industrial designer : because but marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you y you do n't use the banana when the banana is curving like that , user interface : two of the button , yeah . industrial designer : but when the banana is curving like that , with the wheel on the top and to control , user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and here you have a a push button to marketing : but you do n't have project manager : i think it 's a good idea , yeah . user interface : yeah so you can just have uh just have this curve , yeah , and you move uh your hand here to press the buttons and then you move uh on the other side . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so you can have it on on two sides and it 'll be cool , project manager : yeah . i think it 's a good design and it 's innovative as well then . maybe we can keep the banana . and it will be very easy to find . industrial designer : and everybody knows what is a banana . user interface : you can put also vibrator inside . industrial designer : basically . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : if you if you start with uh fancy fruits and fra s and tha user interface : ah-ha . you can also take into account the fact that the banana fits with the colour scheme of our company . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : oh , yeah marketing : project manager : yeah it 's really uh really a good point . user interface : yeah . i hope the students of management die , marketing : user interface : but anyway . marketing : user interface : now who are recording this meeting ? project manager : i think it so one second . so we have to take some decision on this aspect . so , uh so for marketing : project manager : sorry , for uh component , so industrial designer : so project manager : we have to think about those aspects , sorry . industrial designer : so we will just use a a standard battery ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and uh the chip we chip imprint we know exactly which one we are going to use . uh what do you mean by case ? project manager : i think it 's the box that should be spongy , banana 's shape . industrial designer : yeah . uh i mean for me if we use a a spongy banana case , does n't matter . project manager : industrial designer : i just want to have so something to prin to to fix my my components onto that box , and that 's it . user interface : the only th yeah . y yeah that can be in inside th in the structure . industrial designer : yeah yeah . yeah . user interface : but uh the thing is that the buttons and the wheel have to be industrial designer : spongy also . user interface : i mean if it 's spongy then the buttons and the wheel have to i mean if it 's spongy then it 's going to move , right ? so , it 's going to be bend a lot . project manager : but industrial designer : oh no i think it 's possible . user interface : so if we try to push the buttons , it project manager : no the button would be user interface : you think it 's possible ? project manager : in fact it it should be something odd shaped , with a spongy cover . industrial designer : yeah . yeah user interface : okay . industrial designer : . this is uh like the user interface : yeah . project manager : okay odd shape with spongy cover . and standard battery okay , a chip imprint , there 's no specific problem . so we agree to put the wheel industrial designer : mm-hmm . wheel on the top . button , where do we want some buttons ? user interface : well , usually hold 'kay , we want it to be good also for the left-hand users , right ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so it have to it has to be symmetrical . user interface : uh yeah but okay . sa let 's say that th o it has to be basically you can only take two sides , one on ths this side where is the thumb and the other side where there is uh yeah also the thumb . project manager : user interface : basically . or you could use use this one , but i do n't know if it 's very comfortable , to use this one for the wheel . project manager : yeah maybe the thumb is more comfortable . user interface : this for the wheel and then this for the buttons ? project manager : yeah i think it 's okay for both right and left . mm . user interface : should have the two sides . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so if the left , we have the op project manager : i think you can turn it this way also . you can do both with both hands . user interface : wheel wheel buttons . project manager : i think it 's okay . user interface : yeah , the problem is if you have buttons and wheel then when you turn it around , the buttons are on the other side . so you can not see them . project manager : well , you you will get used to it . user interface : yeah . project manager : and moreover , th the button ar are lighted so you you immediately identify the right side , because you have light on buttons . user interface : so the buttons have to be here and the wheel has to be y yeah i know , but uh if you hold with your left hand , and the wheel is here , and the buttons are here , then when you turn it around the buttons will be on the other side . project manager : yeah . no you you i think you will use it only on the right or left hand , whether you are righty or lefty . i think for lefty it 's okay . i can do this movement , and for righty as well . i think this does n't change that much . user interface : okay . project manager : yeah ? user interface : okay . maybe . yeah . project manager : so , for interface we said also that we have uh this banana shape with button on the s on the side . and and uh a wheel on the top . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : so the colour is yellow . i think it 's uh we defined everything according to what we should what the decision we should take , yeah . so maybe we can um we can uh work on those aspects uh until next meeting . so have the final uh look and feel design according to the decision . and have the the user interface design and uh then evaluate the prodyuc the product . that is to say , uh check if it fit the the requirement uh given by the users , but according to uh your presentation it seems to be okay . it seems to be fancy , innovative , and easy to use . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so so to prepare the prototype i would suggest that the industrial designer and the user interface designer uh work together . that would uh industrial designer : project manager : be better , i think . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh and so uh you will receive further instruction by emails , as usual . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so user interface : yes master . project manager : do you need to add anything ? you feel okay ? user interface : yeah . project manager : you feel uh free to express what you want to say ? you do n't feel too constrained ? user interface : yeah . project manager : you do n't feel free to answer this ? industrial designer : user interface : maybe you can make uh uh mm project manager : okay , so user interface : okay . industrial designer : thank you . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about functional features to include in the remote . </s> industrial designer : in fact i have the number of that element which is very standard for remote control . the push button are usually extremely cheap , but i just have one problem and this is related with the wheel sensor , which seems to be quite expensive . project manager : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and i think we if we could just talk about that if we really need a wheel sensor or if we can not if if we could combine something with the push button . project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh a wheel sensor is fifty time the price of a a a push button . user interface : yeah . project manager : but is it a significant price on the whole remote control ? because we can afford up to twelve euros for the price of the remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah project manager : so will will will this with uh including all possible things , so buttons , wheel and the chip , be uh lower than twelve euros to produce ? industrial designer : i i th but i do n't think that uh we should we should talk about uh the design of the box also which needs some money . user interface : yeah . also have to say industrial designer : but user interface : did you receive the email about the voice recognition ? industrial designer : um that 's all project manager : you received something industrial designer : yeah . i have n't chec user interface : yeah . you we uh an email from the manufacturing division that they have basically a voice recognition chip already developed . says yeah . it says that ri right now they just use it to uh to record uh answers to particular questions . but i guess it could be project manager : and could it be adapted ? user interface : i guess it 's possible . i mean instead of recording the answers you can just uh record uh something simpler like a command . project manager : okay and there can uh recognize some commands and stuff ? user interface : yeah you reco recognize commands and you can record new commands and stuff , so if they already have it as uh as a chip project manager : okay . yeah . user interface : then we we could use it . project manager : okay maybe we can just uh listen to this presentation and then take decision later on according to those news . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah but i think it 's yeah sorry , i have n't written my personal references . um the i i just want to mention the the problem of the the r wheels sensor which is much more expensive than any push button , project manager : okay . industrial designer : and if we could reduce that . we we have already some good things uh with um um with the backlight of the push button . user interface : mm-hmm . i have a question about that actually . um , what is the purpose of the light ? industrial designer : just to to make something which is uh slightly more design that uh a squarey box with a rubber user interface : is project manager : you can easily find the button in the dark or so ? user interface : but but in th in the dark uh yeah but is going to be always turned on , the light ? project manager : it will be turned on when the when the user move the remote control i think , no ? user interface : but if you move it then you have it , you do n't need to find it . you can see the buttons better , of course . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . true . industrial designer : yeah . actually . user interface : but if you move it then you have to have some sensor to when you move it to detect your movement . industrial designer : as soon as you thought to move the the remote control you have the light . user interface : yeah , but you need another sensor for that , right ? industrial designer : yeah . again . user interface : yeah no it 's too expensive . industrial designer : i do n't think that this is really expensive , but at the end this is plenty of unexpen eh very cheap devices but uh the bill starts to be user interface : okay . mm . extra . yeah , okay . mm . yeah , but i expected also the wheel would be cheap but you tell me that it is very expensive so , industrial designer : first of all i was thinking to have a a continuous light user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and you w when t you you you you press the on button you have the light on your remote control , when you want to turn off your device user interface : mm . mm-hmm . project manager : but it can be uh battery consuming , no ? to have the light always on ? industrial designer : yeah , a little bit . a little bit . project manager : well we will discuss that after maybe industrial designer : yeah . project manager : the other presentations . user interface : . so uh my one , it uh should be in the shared folder . project manager : yeah . user interface : so . it was last time i saw it . project manager : and it is . user interface : okay . so , project manager : okay . user interface : just move to the next slide . so basically want very simple , right ? that 's the major idea , as simple as possible . project manager : yeah . yeah . </s>
<s> what did industrial design think about functional features to include in the remote ? </s> industrial designer : in fact i have the number of that element which is very standard for remote control . the push button are usually extremely cheap , but i just have one problem and this is related with the wheel sensor , which seems to be quite expensive . project manager : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and i think we if we could just talk about that if we really need a wheel sensor or if we can not if if we could combine something with the push button . project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh a wheel sensor is fifty time the price of a a a push button . user interface : yeah . project manager : but is it a significant price on the whole remote control ? because we can afford up to twelve euros for the price of the remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah project manager : so will will will this with uh including all possible things , so buttons , wheel and the chip , be uh lower than twelve euros to produce ? industrial designer : i i th but i do n't think that uh we should we should talk about uh the design of the box also which needs some money . yeah but i think it 's yeah sorry , i have n't written my personal references . um the i i just want to mention the the problem of the the r wheels sensor which is much more expensive than any push button , project manager : okay . industrial designer : and if we could reduce that . we we have already some good things uh with um um with the backlight of the push button . user interface : mm-hmm . i have a question about that actually . um , what is the purpose of the light ? industrial designer : just to to make something which is uh slightly more design that uh a squarey box with a rubber user interface : is project manager : you can easily find the button in the dark or so ? user interface : but but in th in the dark uh yeah but is going to be always turned on , the light ? project manager : it will be turned on when the when the user move the remote control i think , no ? user interface : but if you move it then you have it , you do n't need to find it . you can see the buttons better , of course . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . true . industrial designer : yeah . actually . user interface : but if you move it then you have to have some sensor to when you move it to detect your movement . industrial designer : as soon as you thought to move the the remote control you have the light . user interface : yeah , but you need another sensor for that , right ? industrial designer : yeah . again . user interface : yeah no it 's too expensive . industrial designer : i do n't think that this is really expensive , but at the end this is plenty of unexpen eh very cheap devices but uh the bill starts to be user interface : okay . mm . extra . yeah , okay . mm . yeah , but i expected also the wheel would be cheap but you tell me that it is very expensive so , industrial designer : first of all i was thinking to have a a continuous light user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about functional features to include in the remote ? </s> user interface : did you receive the email about the voice recognition ? industrial designer : um that 's all project manager : you received something industrial designer : yeah . i have n't chec user interface : yeah . you we uh an email from the manufacturing division that they have basically a voice recognition chip already developed . says yeah . it says that ri right now they just use it to uh to record uh answers to particular questions . but i guess it could be project manager : and could it be adapted ? user interface : i guess it 's possible . i mean instead of recording the answers you can just uh record uh something simpler like a command . project manager : okay and there can uh recognize some commands and stuff ? user interface : yeah you reco recognize commands and you can record new commands and stuff , so if they already have it as uh as a chip but if you move it then you have it , you do n't need to find it . you can see the buttons better , of course . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . true . industrial designer : yeah . actually . user interface : but if you move it then you have to have some sensor to when you move it to detect your movement . industrial designer : as soon as you thought to move the the remote control you have the light . user interface : yeah , but you need another sensor for that , right ? industrial designer : yeah . again . user interface : yeah no it 's too expensive . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about choosing a stylish fruit for remote design . </s> marketing : can i ? so now the recent investigation we we have done fo of the remote control um . so , the most important aspect for remote controls is to be fancy look and feel and not current functional look and feel . and um the second aspect is uh that the remote control should be uh technological innovative . project manager : okay . marketing : and the third most important aspect is to to is that the co remote control should be easy to use . so , are things we are we have uh speak about before . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . and um so you you can go project manager : yeah . marketing : after . and there is a fashion watchers in paris and milan that have detected the following trends , uh fruits and vegetables will be the most important theme for clothes , shoes , and furnitures . so , maybe if our remote control have to be a fruit form or vegetable form project manager : okay . marketing : something like that , or industrial designer : i support an apple . marketing : and the mm the material is expected to be spongy . project manager : marketing : uh i do n't know which material can be spongy , project manager : yeah . marketing : and if you project manager : this is good also for user interface : well , wou wou i think we can certainly just put the electronics in a spongy thing , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it it would work , right ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think it is good also f to have a spongy material , yeah . user interface : you can throw it to the television . project manager : yeah , because it 's robust . marketing : okay industrial designer : yeah . me too . marketing : it 's robust , yeah . user interface : hey that 's a cool one . we could say that if you throw it , you have a sensor , and you throw it and hits the television and turns it off . project manager : marketing : user interface : when it d uh takes a shock . marketing : not good . project manager : uh sorry ? industrial designer : ah it 's okay . i know that they do that for alarm clock also . user interface : yeah . marketing : an and and uh this uh you can yeah you can say that . you ca uh you can go uh before project manager : no . yeah . before ? marketing : , before , yes . and you know here the more iz important aspect is the fancy look and feel , after is uh technological innovative , and after the easy to use . project manager : yeah . yeah . yeah . i think it 's innovative to use the mm the wheel because i think no one else has . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's why project manager : has it ? marketing : yeah that 's why i think we have to keep that if it 's possible . project manager : yeah . i think it 's it makes it both easy and both innos innovative . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : innovative . mm . project manager : so i think it 's a good aspect and it should be kept . user interface : how do we make it look cool is the question . project manager : cool , fancy ? user interface : yeah . project manager : we have to make it l look like a fruit or vegetable . user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : maybe uh um a colour that remember some fruit uh , things like that . industrial designer : what about um marketing : mm . oh , colour , yeah . user interface : well the obvious thing is a banana , i guess . marketing : oh i i project manager : maybe yeah . industrial designer : marketing : i thought about a a pear , for example . you know the pear , is like that and it 's it 's easy to to have in in hand project manager : yeah , and it 's ergonomic as well . marketing : and uh yeah . project manager : a pear . user interface : the banana is also ergonomic . marketing : project manager : yeah . maybe pear yeah or something like that . marketing : or a fruit like that . i dunno . project manager : yeah . we can discuss that uh . d d is is there anything you want to add ? user interface : is there any fruit that is spongy ? marketing : project manager : i do n't think so . i think we we can have like yeah a pear is good , fit well , or banana as you told . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : something like that . industrial designer : and for maybe look and feel , what about a a piece of ice , with blue l_e_d_ inside ? project manager : but that 's not in the trend . . user interface : you can make it um marketing : project manager : the trend is spongy , and vegetable fruits . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : it 's not hard , the metal . marketing : project manager : i think p spongy is good because it it will be robust as well . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : user interface : plastic . project manager : so , i think we can keep the wheel because it 's uh easy , it 's innovative , even if the cost is a bit higher , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and we also have to find a , so , a fruit like pear or banana wit uh any others idea you have . what kind of fr fruit would you like to to control your tv with ? marketing : industrial designer : banana i think , it 's a nice idea . project manager : banana is also yellow so you you ca n't lost your remote control then . industrial designer : because but marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you y you do n't use the banana when the banana is curving like that , user interface : two of the button , yeah . industrial designer : but when the banana is curving like that , with the wheel on the top and to control , user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and here you have a a push button to marketing : but you do n't have project manager : i think it 's a good idea , yeah . user interface : yeah so you can just have uh just have this curve , yeah , and you move uh your hand here to press the buttons and then you move uh on the other side . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so you can have it on on two sides and it 'll be cool , project manager : yeah . i think it 's a good design and it 's innovative as well then . maybe we can keep the banana . and it will be very easy to find . industrial designer : and everybody knows what is a banana . user interface : you can put also vibrator inside . industrial designer : basically . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : if you if you start with uh fancy fruits and fra s and tha user interface : ah-ha . you can also take into account the fact that the banana fits with the colour scheme of our company . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : oh , yeah marketing : </s>
<s> what did marketing think about choosing a stylish fruit for remote design ? </s> marketing : can i ? so now the recent investigation we we have done fo of the remote control um . so , the most important aspect for remote controls is to be fancy look and feel and not current functional look and feel . and um the second aspect is uh that the remote control should be uh technological innovative . project manager : okay . marketing : and the third most important aspect is to to is that the co remote control should be easy to use . so , are things we are we have uh speak about before . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . and um so you you can go project manager : yeah . marketing : after . and there is a fashion watchers in paris and milan that have detected the following trends , uh fruits and vegetables will be the most important theme for clothes , shoes , and furnitures . so , maybe if our remote control have to be a fruit form or vegetable form project manager : okay . marketing : something like that , or industrial designer : i support an apple . marketing : and the mm the material is expected to be spongy . i thought about a a pear , for example . you know the pear , is like that and it 's it 's easy to to have in in hand project manager : yeah , and it 's ergonomic as well . marketing : and uh yeah . project manager : a pear . user interface : the banana is also ergonomic . marketing : </s>
<s> what did project manager think about choosing a stylish fruit for remote design ? </s> project manager : i think it is good also f to have a spongy material , yeah . user interface : you can throw it to the television . project manager : yeah , because it 's robust . marketing : okay industrial designer : yeah . me too . marketing : it 's robust , yeah . user interface : hey that 's a cool one . we could say that if you throw it , you have a sensor , and you throw it and hits the television and turns it off . project manager : yeah . yeah . yeah . i think it 's innovative to use the mm the wheel because i think no one else has . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's why project manager : has it ? marketing : yeah that 's why i think we have to keep that if it 's possible . project manager : yeah . i think it 's it makes it both easy and both innos innovative . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : innovative . mm . project manager : so i think it 's a good aspect and it should be kept . i think it 's a good idea , yeah . user interface : yeah so you can just have uh just have this curve , yeah , and you move uh your hand here to press the buttons and then you move uh on the other side . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so you can have it on on two sides and it 'll be cool , project manager : yeah . i think it 's a good design and it 's innovative as well then . maybe we can keep the banana . and it will be very easy to find . industrial designer : and everybody knows what is a banana . user interface : you can put also vibrator inside . industrial designer : basically . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : if you if you start with uh fancy fruits and fra s and tha user interface : ah-ha . you can also take into account the fact that the banana fits with the colour scheme of our company . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : oh , yeah marketing : </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> phd a : ok , we 're on . professor c : ok , what are we talking about today ? phd b : i do n't know . do you have news from the conference talk ? uh , that was programmed for yesterday i guess . professor c : uh phd d : yesterday professor c : uh phd d : yesterday morning on video conference . professor c : oh , i 'm sorry . grad e : oh . conference call . professor c : i know now i know what you 're talking about . no , nobody 's told me anything . phd b : alright . phd a : oh , this was the , uh , talk where they were supposed to try to decide phd b : to to decide what to do , phd a : ah , right . phd b : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah . no , that would have been a good thing to find out before this meeting , that 's . no , i have no i have no idea . um , uh , so i mean , let 's let 's assume for right now that we 're just kind of plugging on ahead , phd b : yeah . professor c : because even if they tell us that , uh , the rules are different , uh , we 're still interested in doing what we 're doing . so what are you doing ? phd b : mm - hmm . uh , well , we 've a little bit worked on trying to see , uh , what were the bugs and the problem with the latencies . phd d : to improve phd b : so , we took first we took the lda filters and , uh , we designed new filters , using uh recursive filters actually . professor c : so when you say `` we `` , is that something sunil is doing or is that ? phd b : i 'm sorry ? professor c : who is doing that ? phd b : uh , us . yeah . professor c : oh , oh . oh , ok . phd b : so we took the filters the fir filters and we { comment } designed , uh , iir filters that have the same frequency response . phd d : but professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : well , similar , but that have shorter delays . professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : so they had two filters , one for the low frequency bands and another for the high frequency bands . and so we redesigned two filters . and the low frequency band has sixty - four milliseconds of delay , and the high frequency band filter has something like eleven milliseconds compared to the two hundred milliseconds of the iir filters . but it 's not yet test . so we have the filters but we still have to implement a routine that does recursive filtering and professor c : you you had a discussion with sunil about this though ? phd b : no . no . professor c : uh - huh . yeah , you should talk with him . phd b : yeah , yeah . professor c : yeah . no , i mean , because the the the the whole problem that happened before was coordination , phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : right ? so so you need to discuss with him what we 're doing , phd b : yeah . professor c : uh , cuz they could be doing the same thing and or something . phd b : mm - hmm . uh , i yeah , i do n't know if th that 's what they were trying to they were trying to do something different like taking , uh well , using filter that takes only a past professor c : right . phd b : and this is just a little bit different . but i will i will send him an email and tell him exactly what we are doing , so . professor c : yeah , yeah . um , i mean we just we just have to be in contact more . i think that the the fact that we we did that with had that thing with the latencies was indicative of the fact that there was n't enough communication . phd b : mm - hmm . alright . um , yeah . well , there is w one , um , remark about these filters , that they do n't have a linear phase . so , professor c : right . phd b : well , i do n't know , perhaps it perhaps it does n't hurt because the phase is almost linear but . um , and so , yeah , for the delay i gave you here , it 's it 's , uh , computed on the five hertz modulation frequency , which is the mmm , well , the most important for speech so . uh , this is the first thing . professor c : so that would be , uh , a reduction of a hundred and thirty - six milliseconds , phd d : the low f f phd b : yeah . professor c : which , uh what was the total we ended up with through the whole system ? phd b : three hundred and thirty . professor c : so that would be within ? phd b : yeah , but there are other points actually , uh , which will perhaps add some more delay . is that some other other stuff in the process were perhaps not very um perf well , not very correct , like the downsampling which w was simply dropping frames . professor c : yeah . phd b : um , so we will try also to add a nice downsampling having a filter that that professor c : uh - huh . phd b : well , a low - pass filter at at twenty - five hertz . uh , because wh when when we look at the lda filters , well , they are basically low - pass but they leave a lot of what 's above twenty - five hertz . professor c : yeah . phd b : um , and so , yeah , this will be another filter which would add ten milliseconds again . professor c : yeah . phd b : um , yeah , and then there 's a third thing , is that , um , basically the way on - line normalization was done uh , is just using this recursion on on the um , um , on the feature stream , professor c : yeah . phd b : and but this is a filter , so it has also a delay . uh , and when we look at this filter actually it has a delay of eighty - five milliseconds . so if we professor c : eighty - five . phd b : yeah . if we want to be very correct , so if we want to the estimation of the mean t t to to be well , the right estimation of the mean , we have to t to take eighty - five milliseconds in the future . mmm . professor c : hmm ! that 's a little bit of a problem . phd b : yeah . um , but , well , when we add up everything it 's it will be alright . we would be at six so , sixty - five , plus ten , plus for the downsampling , plus eighty - five for the on - line normalization . so it 's plus plus eighty for the neural net and pca . professor c : yeah , but then there 's oh . phd b : so it would be around two hundred and forty so , well , professor c : just just barely in there . phd b : plus plus the frames , but it 's ok . phd a : what 's the allowable ? professor c : two - fifty , unless they changed the rules . which there is there 's some discussion of . phd a : what were they thinking of changing it to ? professor c : but phd b : yeah . professor c : uh , well the people who had very low latency want it to be low uh , very very very narrow , uh , latency bound . and the people who have longer latency do n't . so . phd b : so , yeah . professor c : unfortunately we 're the main ones with long latency , but but , uh , phd b : yeah , and basically the best proposal had something like thirty or forty milliseconds of latency . professor c : you know , it 's yeah . phd b : so . well . professor c : yeah , so they were basically i mean , they were more or less trading computation for performance and we were , uh , trading latency for performance . and they were dealing with noise explicitly and we were n't , and so i think of it as complementary , that if we can put the phd a : think of it as what ? professor c : complementary . i think the best systems so , uh , everything that we did in in a way it was it was just adamantly insisting on going in with a brain damaged system , which is something actually , we 've done a lot over the last thirteen years . uh , which is we say , well this is the way we should do it . and then we do it . and then someone else does something that 's straight forward . so , w th w this was a test that largely had additive noise and we did we adde did absolutely nothing explicitly to handle ad additive noise . phd a : right . professor c : we just , uh , you know , trained up systems to be more discriminant . and , uh , we did this , uh , rasta - like filtering which was done in the log domain and was tending to handle convolutional noise . we did we actually did nothing about additive noise . so , um , the , uh , spectral sub subtraction schemes a couple places did seem to seem to do a nice job . and so , uh , we 're talking about putting putting some of that in while still keeping some of our stuff . i think you should be able to end up with a system that 's better than both but clearly the way that we 're operating for this other stuff does involved some latency to to get rid of most of that latency . to get down to forty or fifty milliseconds we 'd have to throw out most of what we 're doing . and and , uh , i do n't think there 's any good reason for it in the application actually . i mean , you 're you 're you 're speaking to a recognizer on a remote server and , uh , having a a a quarter second for some processing to clean it up . it does n't seem like it 's that big a deal . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : these are n't large vocabulary things so the decoder should n't take a really long time , and . phd a : and i do n't think anybody 's gon na notice the difference between a quarter of a second of latency and thirty milliseconds of latency . professor c : so . no . what what does wa was your experience when you were doing this stuff with , uh , the the the surgical , uh , uh , microscopes and so forth . um , how long was it from when somebody , uh , finished an utterance to when , uh , something started happening ? phd a : um , we had a silence detector , so we would look for the end of an utterance based on the silence detector . professor c : mm - hmm . phd a : and i i ca n't remember now off the top of my head how many frames of silence we had to detect before we would declare it to be the end of an utterance . professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd a : um , but it was , uh , i would say it was probably around the order of two hundred and fifty milliseconds . professor c : yeah , and that 's when you 'd start doing things . phd a : yeah , we did the back trace at that point to get the answer . professor c : yeah . of course that did n't take too long at that point . phd a : no , no it was pretty quick . professor c : yeah . phd a : so professor c : yeah , so you you so you had a phd a : this w professor c : so you had a a quarter second delay before , uh , plus some little processing time , phd a : right . professor c : and then the the microscope would start moving or something . phd a : right . professor c : yeah . phd a : right . professor c : and there 's physical inertia there , so probably the the motion itself was all phd a : and it felt to , uh , the users that it was instantaneous . i mean , as fast as talking to a person . it th i do n't think anybody ever complained about the delay . professor c : yeah , so you would think as long as it 's under half a second or something . phd a : yeah . professor c : uh , i 'm not an expert on that phd a : yeah . i do n't remember the exact numbers but it was something like that . professor c : yeah . phd a : i do n't think you can really tell . a person i do n't think a person can tell the difference between , uh , you know , a quarter of a second and a hundred milliseconds , and i 'm not even sure if we can tell the difference between a quarter of a second and half a second . professor c : yeah . phd a : i mean it just it feels so quick . professor c : yeah . i mean , basically if you yeah , if you said , uh , um , `` what 's the , uh , uh what 's the shortest route to the opera ? `` and it took half a second to get back to you , phd a : yeah . professor c : i mean , it would be f i mean , it might even be too abrupt . you might have to put in a s a s a delay . phd a : yeah . i mean , it may feel different than talking to a person professor c : yeah . phd a : because when we talk to each other we tend to step on each other 's utterances . so like if i 'm asking you a question , you may start answering before i 'm even done . professor c : yeah . phd a : so it it would probably feel different professor c : right . phd a : but i do n't think it would feel slow . professor c : right . well , anyway , i mean , i think we could cut we know what else , we could cut down on the neural net time by by , uh , playing around a little bit , going more into the past , or something like that . we t we talked about that . phd a : so is the latency from the neural net caused by how far ahead you 're looking ? professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : and there 's also well , there 's the neural net and there 's also this , uh , uh , multi - frame , uh , uh , klt . phd a : was n't there was it in the , uh , recurrent neural nets where they were n't looking ahead at all ? professor c : they were n't looking ahead much . they p they looked ahead a little bit . phd a : a little bit . ok . professor c : yeah . yeah , i mean , you could do this with a recurrent net . and and then but you also could just , um , i mean , we have n't experimented with this but i imagine you could , um , uh , predict a , uh um , a label , uh , from more in the past than in than than in the future . i mean , we 've d we 've done some stuff with that before . i think it it works ok . phd b : mm - hmm . phd a : we 've always had usually we used the symmetric windows but i do n't think professor c : yeah , but we 've but we played a little bit with with asymmetric , guys . phd a : yeah . professor c : you can do it . so . so , that 's what that 's what you 're busy with , s messing around with this , phd b : uh , yeah . professor c : yeah . and , uh , phd d : also we were thinking to to , uh , apply the eh , spectral subtraction from ericsson phd b : yeah . professor c : uh - huh . phd d : and to to change the contextual klt for lda . phd a : change the what ? phd d : the contextual klt . phd a : i 'm missing that last word . context professor c : k klt . phd d : klt grad e : oh . klt . phd a : oh , klt . professor c : mm - hmm . phd a : uh - huh . phd d : klt , i 'm sorry . uh , to change and use lda discriminative . phd b : yeah . professor c : uh - huh . phd d : but i do n't know . phd a : what is the advantage of that ? phd d : uh phd b : well , it 's that by the for the moment we have , uh , something that 's discriminant and nonlinear . and the other is linear but it 's not discriminant at all . well , it 's it 's a linear transformation , that uh professor c : so at least just to understand maybe what the difference was between how much you were getting from just putting the frames together and how much you 're getting from the discriminative , what the nonlinearity does for you or does n't do for you . just to understand it a little better i guess . phd b : mmm . well uh yeah . actually what we want to do , perhaps it 's to replace to to have something that 's discriminant but linear , also . and to see if it if it improves ov over over the non - discriminant linear transformation . and if the neural net is better than this or , well . so . professor c : yeah , well , that 's what i meant , is to see whether whether it having the neural net really buys you anything . phd b : ye mmm . professor c : uh , i mean , it doe did look like it buys you something over just the klt . phd b : yeah . professor c : but maybe it 's just the discrimination and and maybe yeah , maybe the nonlinear discrimination is n't necessary . phd d : s maybe . phd b : yeah . mm - hmm . professor c : could be . phd d : maybe . professor c : good good to know . but the other part you were saying was the spectral subtraction , so you just kind of , uh phd b : yeah . professor c : at what stage do you do that ? do you you 're doing that , um ? phd b : so it would be on the um on on the mel frequency bands , phd d : we was think phd b : so . yeah , be before everything . phd d : yeah , professor c : so just do that on the mel f phd d : we no nnn we we was thinking to do before after vad or phd b : yeah , phd d : oh , { comment } we do n't know exactly when it 's better . phd b : um phd d : before after vad or professor c : so so you know that that that the way that they 're phd d : and then professor c : uh , one thing that would be no good to find out about from this conference call is that what they were talking about , what they 're proposing doing , was having a third party , um , run a good vad , and and determine boundaries . phd d : yeah . professor c : and then given those boundaries , then have everybody do the recognition . phd d : begin to work . professor c : the reason for that was that , um , uh if some one p one group put in the vad and another did n't , uh , or one had a better vad than the other since that they 're not viewing that as being part of the the task , and that any any manufacturer would put a bunch of effort into having some s kind of good speech - silence detection . it still would n't be perfect but i mean , e the argument was `` let 's not have that be part of this test . `` `` let 's let 's separate that out . `` and so , uh , i guess they argued about that yesterday and , yeah , i 'm sorry , i do n't do n't know the answer but we should find out . i 'm sure we 'll find out soon what they , uh what they decided . so , uh yeah , so there 's the question of the vad but otherwise it 's it 's on the the , uh the mel fil filter bank , uh , energies i guess ? phd d : mm - hmm . phd b : mmm , yeah . professor c : you do doing the ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : and you 're you 're subtracting in the in the in the i guess it 's power power domain , uh , or or magnitude domain . probably power domain , right ? phd b : i guess it 's power domain , yeah . i do n't remember exactly . professor c : yeah , phd d : i do n't remember . phd b : but yeah , so it 's before everything else , and professor c : i mean , if you look at the theory , it 's it should be in the power domain but but , uh , i 've seen implementations where people do it in the magnitude domain phd b : yeah . professor c : and i have asked people why and they shrug their shoulders and say , `` oh , it works . `` so . phd b : yeah . professor c : uh , and there 's this i guess there 's this mysterious i mean people who do this a lot i guess have developed little tricks of the trade . i mean , there 's there 's this , um you do n't just subtract the the estimate of the noise spectrum . you subtract th that times phd b : a little bit more and yeah . professor c : or or less , or phd a : really ? phd b : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd b : and generated this this , um , so you have the estimation of the power spectra of the noise , and you multiply this by a factor which is depend dependent on the snr . so . well . phd d : hmm , maybe . phd b : when the speech lev when the signal level is more important , compared to this noise level , the coefficient is small , and around one . but when the power le the s signal level is uh small compared to the noise level , the coefficient is more important . and this reduce actually the music musical noise , uh which is more important during silence portions , phd a : uh - huh . phd b : when the s the energy 's small . so there are tricks like this but , mmm . professor c : yeah . phd b : yeah . phd a : is the estimate of the noise spectrum a running estimate ? or phd b : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd b : yeah . professor c : well , that 's i mean , that 's what differs from different different tasks and different s uh , spectral subtraction methods . i mean , if if you have , uh , fair assurance that , uh , the noise is is quite stationary , then the smartest thing to do is use as much data as possible to estimate the noise , get a much better estimate , and subtract it off . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : but if it 's varying at all , which is gon na be the case for almost any real situation , you have to do it on - line , uh , with some forgetting factor or something . phd a : so do you is there some long window that extends into the past over which you calculate the average ? professor c : well , there 's a lot of different ways of computing the noise spectrum . so one of the things that , uh , hans - guenter hirsch did , uh and pas and other people actually , he 's he was n't the only one i guess , was to , uh , take some period of of of speech and in each band , uh , develop a histogram . so , to get a decent histogram of these energies takes at least a few seconds really . but , uh i mean you can do it with a smaller amount but it 's pretty rough . and , um , in fact i think the nist standard method of determining signal - to - noise ratio is based on this . phd a : a couple seconds ? professor c : so no , no , it 's based on this kind of method , this histogram method . so you have a histogram . now , if you have signal and you have noise , you basically have these two bumps in the histogram , which you could approximate as two gaussians . phd a : but wh do n't they overlap sometimes ? professor c : oh , yeah . so you have a mixture of two gaussians . phd a : yeah . professor c : right ? and you can use em to figure out what it is . you know . phd a : yeah . professor c : so so basically now you have this mixture of two gaussians , you you n know what they are , and , uh i mean , sorry , you estimate what they are , and , uh , so this gives you what the signal is and what the noise e energy is in that band in the spectrum . and then you look over the whole thing and now you have a noise spectrum . so , uh , hans - guenter hirsch and others have used that kind of method . and the other thing to do is which is sort of more trivial and obvious { comment } is to , uh , uh , determine through magical means that that , uh , there 's no speech in some period , and then see what the spectrum is . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , but , you know , it 's that that that 's tricky to do . it has mistakes . uh , and if you 've got enough time , uh , this other method appears to be somewhat more reliable . uh , a variant on that for just determining signal - to - noise ratio is to just , uh you can do a w a uh an iterative thing , em - like thing , to determine means only . i guess it is em still , but just just determine the means only . do n't worry about the variances . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : and then you just use those mean values as being the the , uh uh signal - to - noise ratio in that band . phd a : but what is the it seems like this kind of thing could add to the latency . i mean , depending on where the window was that you used to calculate the signal - to - noise ratio . phd b : yeah , sure . but mmm . professor c : not necessarily . cuz if you do n't look into the future , right ? phd a : ok , well that i guess that was my question , professor c : if you just yeah phd a : yeah . professor c : i mean , if you just if you you , uh a at the beginning you have some phd a : guess . professor c : esti some guess and and , uh , uh phd b : yeah , but it professor c : it 's an interesting question . i wonder how they did do it ? phd b : actually , it 's a mmm if - if you want to have a good estimation on non - stationary noise you have to look in the in the future . i mean , if you take your window and build your histogram in this window , um , what you can expect is to have an estimation of th of the noise in in the middle of the window , not at the end . so professor c : well , yeah , phd b : the but but people professor c : but what does what what what does alcatel do ? phd d : mm - hmm . professor c : and and france telecom . phd b : the they just look in the past . i guess it works because the noise are , uh pret uh , almost stationary professor c : pretty stationary . grad e : pretty stationary , phd b : but , um professor c : well , the thing , e e e e grad e : yeah . professor c : yeah , y i mean , you 're talking about non - stationary noise but i think that spectral subtraction is rarely is is not gon na work really well for for non - stationary noise , phd b : well , if y if you have a good estimation of the noise , professor c : you know ? phd b : yeah , because well it it has to work . professor c : but it 's hard to but that 's hard to do . phd b : yeah , that 's hard to do . yeah . professor c : yeah . so so i think that that what what is wh what 's more common is that you 're going to be helped with r slowly varying or stationary noise . phd b : but mm - hmm . professor c : that 's what spectral subtraction will help with , practically speaking . phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor c : if it varies a lot , to get a if if to get a good estimate you need a few seconds of speech , even if it 's centered , right ? phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : if you need a few seconds to get a decent estimate but it 's changed a lot in a few seconds , then it , you know , i it 's kind of a problem . phd b : yeah . professor c : i mean , imagine e five hertz is the middle of the of the speech modulation spectrum , right ? so imagine a jack hammer going at five hertz . phd b : yeah , that 's professor c : i mean , good good luck . so , phd b : so in this case , yeah , sure , you can not professor c : yeah . phd b : but i think y um , hirsch does experiment with windows of like between five hundred milliseconds and one second . and well , five hundred wa was not so bad . i mean and he worked on non - stationary noises , like noise modulated with well , wi with amplitude modulations and things like that , phd a : were his , uh , windows centered around the phd b : and but um , yeah . well , i think yeah . well , in in the paper he showed that actually the estimation of the noise is is delayed . well , it 's there is you you have to center the window , yeah . professor c : yeah . no , i understand it 's better to do but i just think that that , uh , for real noises wh what what 's most likely to happen is that there 'll be some things that are relatively stationary where you can use one or another spectral subtraction thing phd b : yeah . professor c : and other things where it 's not so stationary and i mean , you can always pick something that that falls between your methods , uh , uh , but i do n't know if , you know , if sinusoidally , uh , modul amplitude modulated noise is is sort of a big problem in in in practice . phd b : yeah . professor c : i think that it 's uh phd a : we could probably get a really good estimate of the noise if we just went to the noise files , and built the averages from them . professor c : yeah . well . phd b : what what do you mean ? professor c : just cheat you 're saying , cheat . phd b : but if the if the noise is stationary perhaps you do n't even need some kind of noise estimation algorithm . professor c : yeah . yeah . phd b : we just take th th th the beginning of the utterance and professor c : oh , yeah , sure . phd b : i i know p i do n't know if people tried this for aurora . phd d : it 's the same . phd b : well , everybody seems to use some kind of adaptive , well , scheme professor c : but but phd d : yeah . a dictionary . phd b : is it very useful professor c : you know , stationary phd a : very slow adaptation . phd b : and is the c professor c : right , the word `` stationary `` is has a very precise statistical meaning . but , you know , in in signal - processing really what we 're talking about i think is things that change slowly , uh , compared with our our processing techniques . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : so if you 're driving along in a car i i would think that most of the time the nature of the noise is going to change relatively slowly . it 's not gon na stay absolute the same . if you if you check it out , uh , five minutes later you may be in a different part of the road phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : or whatever . but it 's it 's i i i using the local characteristics in time , is probably going to work pretty well . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : but you could get hurt a lot if you just took some something from the beginning of all the speech , of , you know , an hour of speech and then later phd b : yeah . professor c : uh , so they may be you know , may be overly , uh , complicated for for this test but but but , uh , i do n't know . but what you 're saying , you know , makes sense , though . i mean , if possible you should n't you should you should make it , uh , the center of the center of the window . but uh , we 're already having problems with these delay , uh delay issues . phd b : yeah , so . professor c : so , uh , we 'll have to figure ways without it . um , phd a : if they 're going to provide a , uh , voice activity detector that will tell you the boundaries of the speech , then , could n't you just go outside those boundaries and do your estimate there ? professor c : oh , yeah . you bet . yeah . so i i imagine that 's what they 're doing , right ? is they 're they 're probably looking in nonspeech sections and getting some , uh phd b : yeah , they have some kind of threshold on on the previous estimate , and so . yeah . i think . yeah , i think ericsson used this kind of threshold . yeah , so , they h they have an estimate of the noise level and they put a threshold like six or ten db above , and what 's under this threshold is used to update the estimate . is is that right phd d : yeah . phd b : or ? phd d : i think so . phd b : so it 's it 's phd d : i have not here the proposal . phd b : yeah . it 's like saying what 's under the threshold is silence , professor c : does france telecom do this phd b : and professor c : does france telecom do th do the same thing ? more or less ? phd b : i d i y you know , perhaps ? phd d : no . i do i have not here the proposal . professor c : ok . um , ok , if we 're we 're done done with that , uh , let 's see . uh , maybe we can talk about a couple other things briefly , just , uh , things that that we 've been chatting about but have n't made it into these meetings yet . so you 're coming up with your quals proposal , and , uh wan na just give a two three minute summary of what you 're planning on doing ? grad e : oh , um , two , three , it can be shorter than that . professor c : yeah . grad e : um . well , i 've i 've talked to some of you already . um , but i 'm , uh , looking into extending the work done by larry saul and john allen and uh mazin rahim . um , they they have a system that 's , uh , a multi - band , um , system but their multi - band is is a little different than the way that we 've been doing multi - band in the past , where um where we 've been @ @ { comment } uh taking um sub - band features and i training up these neural nets and on on phonetic targets , and then combining them some somehow down the line , um , they 're they 're taking sub - band features and , um , training up a detector that detects for , um , these phonetic features for example , um , he presents um , uh , a detector to detect sonorance . and so what what it basically is is , um it 's there 's at the lowest level , there it 's it 's an or ga i mean , it 's an and gate . so , uh , on each sub - band you have several independent tests , to test whether um , there 's the existence of sonorance in a sub - band . and then , um , it c it 's combined by a soft and gate . and at the at the higher level , for every if , um the higher level there 's a soft or gate . uh , so if if this detector detects um , the presence of of sonorance in any of the sub - bands , then the detect uh , the or gate at the top says , `` ok , well this frame has evidence of sonorance . `` phd a : what are what are some of the low level detectors that they use ? grad e : and these are all oh , ok . well , the low level detectors are logistic regressions . um , and the , uh professor c : so that , by the way , basically is a is one of the units in our in our our neural network . grad e : the one o professor c : so that 's all it is . it 's a sig it 's a sigmoid , grad e : yeah . professor c : uh , with weighted sum at the input , which you train by gradient descent . grad e : right . yeah , so he uses , um , an em algorithm to to um train up these um parameters for the logistic regression . professor c : well , actually , yeah , grad e : the professor c : so i was using em to get the targets . so so you have this this this and gate what we were calling an and gate , but it 's a product product rule thing at the output . and then he uses , uh , i u and then feeding into that are i 'm sorry , there 's it 's an or at the output , is n't it ? yeah , grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : so that 's the product . and then , um , then he has each of these and things . and , um , but so they 're little neural neural units . um , and , um , they have to have targets . and so the targets come from em . phd a : and so are each of these , low level detectors { comment } are they , uh are these something that you decide ahead of time , like `` i 'm going to look for this particular feature or i 'm going to look at this frequency , `` or what what what are they looking at ? grad e : um phd a : what are their inputs ? grad e : uh right , so the ok , so at each for each sub - band { comment } there are basically , uh , several measures of snr and and correlation . phd a : ah , ok , ok . grad e : um , um and he said there 's like twenty of these per per sub - band . um , and for for every s every sub - band , e you you just pick ahead of time , um , `` i 'm going to have like five i independent logistic tests . `` phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and you initialize these parameters , um , in some some way and use em to come up with your training targets for a for the the low - level detectors . phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and then , once you get that done , you you you train the whole whole thing on maximum likelihood . um , and h he shows that using this this method to detect sonorance is it 's very robust compared to , um to typical , uh , full - band gaussian mixtures um estimations of of sonorance . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad e : and , uh so so that 's just that 's just one detector . so you can imagine building many of these detectors on different features . you get enough of these detectors together , um , then you have enough information to do , um , higher level discrimination , for example , discriminating between phones phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and then you keep working your way up until you you build a full recognizer . phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : so , um , that 's that 's the direction which i 'm i 'm thinking about going in my quals . phd a : cool . professor c : you know , it has a number of properties that i really liked . i mean , one is the going towards , um , using narrow band information for , uh , ph phonetic features of some sort rather than just , uh , immediately going for the the typical sound units . phd a : right . professor c : another thing i like about it is that you t this thing is going to be trained explicitly trained for a product of errors rule , which is what , uh , allen keeps pointing out that fletcher observed in the twenties , phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , for people listening to narrow band stuff . that 's friday 's talk , by the way . and then , um , uh , the third thing i like about it is , uh , and we 've played around with this in a different kind of way a little bit but it has n't been our dominant way of of operating anything , um , this issue of where the targets come from . so in our case when we 've been training it multi - band things , the way we get the targets for the individual bands is , uh , that we get the phonetic label for the sound there phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : and we say , `` ok , we train every `` what this is saying is , ok , that 's maybe what our ultimate goal is or not ultimate but penultimate goal is getting these these small sound units . but but , um , along the way how much should we , uh uh , what should we be training these intermediate things for ? i mean , because , uh , we do n't know uh , that this is a particularly good feature . i mean , there 's no way , uh someone in the audience yesterday was asking , `` well could n't you have people go through and mark the individual bands and say where the where it was sonorant or not ? `` phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : but , you know , i think having a bunch of people listening to critical band wide , uh , chunks of speech trying to determine whether { comment } i think it 'd be impossible . grad e : ouch . professor c : it 's all gon na sound like like sine waves to you , more or less . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : i mean well not i mean , it 's g all g narrow band uh , i i m i think it 's very hard for someone to to a person to make that determination . so , um , um , we do n't really know how those should be labeled . it could sh be that you should , um , not be paying that much attention to , uh , certain bands for certain sounds , uh , in order to get the best result . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : so , um , what we have been doing there , just sort of mixing it all together , is certainly much much cruder than that . we trained these things up on the on the , uh the final label . now we have i guess done experiments you 've probably done stuff where you have , um , done separate , uh , viterbis on the different grad e : yeah . forced alignment on the sub - band labels ? professor c : yeah . grad e : yeah . professor c : you 've done that . did did that help at all ? grad e : um , it helps for one or t one iteration but um , anything after that it does n't help . professor c : so so that may or may t it that aspect of what he 's doing may or may not be helpful because in a sense that 's the same sort of thing . you 're taking global information and determining what you how you should but this is this is , uh , i th i think a little more direct . phd a : how did they measure the performance of their detector ? professor c : and well , he 's look he 's just actually looking at , uh , the confusions between sonorant and non - sonorant . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : so he has n't applied it to recognition or if he did he did n't talk about it . it 's it 's just and one of the concerns in the audience , actually , was that that , um , the , uh , uh he he did a comparison to , uh , you know , our old foil , the the nasty old standard recognizer with mel mel filter bank at the front , and h m ms , and and so forth . and , um , it did n't do nearly as well , especially in in noise . but the one of the good questions in the audience was , well , yeah , but that was n't trained for that . i mean , this use of a very smooth , uh , spectral envelope is something that , you know , has evolved as being generally a good thing for speech recognition but if you knew that what you were gon na do is detect sonorants or not so sonorants and non - sonorants is is is almost like voiced - unvoiced , except i guess that the voiced stops are are also called `` obstruents `` . uh , so it 's it 's uh , but with the exception of the stops i guess it 's pretty much the same as voiced - unvoiced , phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : right ? so so um . so , um , if you knew you were doing that , if you were doing something say for a a , uh a a vocoder , you would n't use the same kind of features . you would use something that was sensitive to the periodicity and and not just the envelope . uh , and so in that sense it was an unfair test . um , so i think that the questioner was right . it it was in that sense an unfair test . nonetheless , it was one that was interesting because , uh , this is what we are actually using for speech recognition , these smooth envelopes . and this says that perhaps even , you know , trying to use them in the best way that we can , that that that we ordinarily do , with , you know , gaussian mixtures and h m ms { comment } and so forth , you you do n't , uh , actually do that well on determining whether something is sonorant or not . phd a : did n't they professor c : which means you 're gon na make errors between similar sounds that are son sonorant or obstruent . phd a : did n't they also do some kind of an oracle experiment where they said `` if we could detect the sonorants perfectly and then show how it would improve speech recognition ? i thought i remember hearing about an experiment like that . professor c : the - these same people ? phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : i do n't remember that . that would that 's you 're right , that 's exactly the question to follow up this discussion , is suppose you did that , uh , got that right . um , yeah . phd b : what could be the other low level detectors , i mean , for { comment } other kind of features , or ? in addition to detecting sonorants or ? th - that 's what you want to to to go for also grad e : um phd b : or ? grad e : what t oh , build other other detectors on different phonetic features ? phd b : other low level detectors ? yeah . grad e : um , uh let 's see , um , yeah , i d i do n't know . e um , um , i mean , w easiest thing would be to go go do some voicing stuff but that 's very similar to sonorance . phd b : mm - hmm . phd a : when we when we talked with john ohala the other day we made a list of some of the things that w grad e : yeah . phd a : like frication , grad e : oh ! ok . phd a : abrupt closure , grad e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd a : r - coloring , nasality , voicing uh . professor c : yeah , so there 's a half dozen like that that are grad e : yeah , nasality . professor c : now this was coming at it from a different angle but maybe it 's a good way to start . uh , these are things which , uh , john felt that a a , uh a human annotator would be able to reliably mark . so the sort of things he felt would be difficult for a human annotator to reliably mark would be tongue position kinds of things . grad e : oh , ok . placing stuff , phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : yeah . grad e : yeah . phd a : there 's also things like stress . professor c : uh phd a : you can look at stress . professor c : but stress does n't , uh , fit in this thing of coming up with features that will distinguish words from one another , grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : right ? it 's a it 's a good thing to mark and will probably help us ultimate with recognition phd a : yeah , there 's a few cases where it can like permit { comment } and permit . professor c : but phd a : but that 's not very common in english . in other languages it 's more uh , important . professor c : well , yeah , but i either case you 'd write permit , right ? so you 'd get the word right . phd a : no , i 'm saying , i i e i thought you were saying that stress does n't help you distinguish between words . oh , i see what you 're saying . as long as you get the sequence , professor c : we 're g if we 're doing if we 're talking about transcription as opposed to something else phd a : right ? yeah . yeah , yeah , yeah . yeah . right . professor c : yeah . phd a : so where it could help is maybe at a higher level . yeah . professor c : right . grad e : like a understanding application . phd a : understanding , yeah . exactly . professor c : yeah . grad e : yeah . professor c : but that 's this afternoon 's meeting . yeah . we do n't understand anything in this meeting . yeah , so that 's yeah , that 's , you know , a neat neat thing and and , uh so . grad e : s so , um , ohala 's going to help do these , uh transcriptions of the meeting data ? phd a : uh , well i do n't know . we d we sort of did n't get that far . um , we just talked about some possible features that could be marked by humans and , um , because of having maybe some extra transcriber time we thought we could go through and mark some portion of the data for that . and , uh professor c : yeah , i mean , that 's not an immediate problem , that we do n't immediately have a lot of extra transcriber time . phd a : yeah , right . professor c : but but , uh , in the long term i guess chuck is gon na continue the dialogue with john and and , uh , and , we 'll we 'll end up doing some i think . phd a : i 'm definitely interested in this area , too , f uh , acoustic feature stuff . professor c : uh - huh . yeah , i think it 's an interesting interesting way to go . grad e : cool . professor c : um , i say it like `` said - int `` . i think it has a number of good things . um , so , uh , y you want to talk maybe a c two or three minutes about what we 've been talking about today and other days ? grad f : ri yeah , ok , so , um , we 're interested in , um , methods for far mike speech recognition , um , mainly , uh , methods that deal with the reverberation in the far mike signal . so , um , one approach would be , um , say msg and plp , like was used in aurora one and , um , there are other approaches which actually attempt to remove the reverberation , instead of being robust to it like msg . and so we 're interested in , um , comparing the performance of um , a robust approach like msg with these , um , speech enhancement or de - reverber de - reverberation approaches . phd b : mm - hmm . grad f : and , um , it looks like we 're gon na use the meeting recorder digits data for that . phd b : and the de - reverberation algorithm , do you have can you give some more details on this or ? does it use one microphone ? several microphones ? does it ? grad f : ok , well , um , there was something that was done by , um , a guy named carlos , i forget his last name , { comment } who worked with hynek , who , um , professor c : avendano . yeah . grad f : who , um , phd b : mm - hmm . grad f : um , it was like rasta in the sense that of it was , um , de - convolution by filtering um , except he used a longer time window , phd b : mm - hmm . grad f : like a second maybe . and the reason for that is rasta 's time window is too short to , um include the whole , um , reverberation um , i do n't know what you call it the reverberation response . i if you see wh if you see what i mean . the reverberation filter from my mouth to that mike is like it 's t got it 's too long in the in the time domain for the um for the rasta filtering to take care of it . and , um , then there are a couple of other speech enhancement approaches which have n't been tried for speech recognition yet but have just been tried for enhancement , which , um , have the assumption that um , you can do lpc um analysis of th of the signal you get at the far microphone and the , um , all pole filter that you get out of that should be good . it 's just the , um , excitation signal { comment } that is going to be distorted by the reverberation and so you can try and reconstruct a better excitation signal and , um , feed that through the i um , all pole filter and get enhanced speech with reverberation reduced . phd b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor c : there 's also this , uh , um , uh , echo cancellation stuff that we 've sort of been chasing , so , uh we have , uh and when we 're saying these digits now we do have a close microphone signal and then there 's the distant microphone signal . and you could as a kind of baseline say , `` ok , given that we have both of these , uh , we should be able to do , uh , a cancellation . `` so that , uh , um , we we , uh , essentially identify the system in between the linear time invariant system between the microphones and and and and re and invert it , uh , or or cancel it out to to some some reasonable approximation phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : through one method or another . uh , that 's not a practical thing , uh , if you have a distant mike , you do n't have a close mike ordinarily , but we thought that might make also might make a good baseline . uh , it still wo n't be perfect because there 's noise . uh , but and then there are s uh , there are single microphone methods that i think people have done for , uh for this kind of de - reverberation . do y do you know any references to any ? cuz i i w i was w w i i lead him down a a bad path on that . phd b : uh , i g i guess i guess when people are working with single microphones , they are more trying to do well , not not very well , there is the avendano work , professor c : right . phd b : but also trying to mmm , uh trying to f t find the de - convolution filter but in the um not in the time domain but in the uh the stream of features uh i guess . well , @ @ { comment } there there 's someone working on this on i in mons professor c : yeah , ok . phd b : so perhaps , yeah , we should try t to he 's working on this , on trying to professor c : yeah . phd b : on re reverberation , um professor c : the first paper on this is gon na have great references , i can tell already . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : it 's always good to have references , especially when reviewers read it or or one of the authors and , feel they 'll `` you 're ok , you 've r you cited me . `` phd b : so , yeah . well , he did echo cancellation and he did some fancier things like , uh , uh , training different network on different reverberation conditions and then trying to find the best one , but . well . professor c : yeah . phd b : yeah . professor c : the oth the other thing , uh , that dave was talking about earlier was , uh , uh , multiple mike things , uh , where they 're all distant . so , um , i mean , there 's there 's all this work on arrays , but the other thing is , uh , what can we do that 's cleverer that can take some advantage of only two mikes , uh , particularly if there 's an obstruction between them , as we as we have over there . phd b : if there is ? professor c : an obstruction between them . phd b : ah , yeah . professor c : it creates a shadow which is is helpful . it 's part of why you have such good directionality with , with two ears phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : even though they 're not several feet apart . for most for most people 's heads . phd a : that could help though . professor c : so that yeah , the the head , in the way , is really that 's what it 's for . it 's basically , phd a : that 's what the head 's for ? to separate the ears ? professor c : yeah , it 's to separate the ears . that 's right , yeah . yeah . uh , so . anyway , o k . uh , i think that 's that 's all we have this week . and , uh , i think it 's digit time . phd a : actually the , um for some reason the digit forms are blank . professor c : yeah ? phd a : uh , i think th that may be due to the fact that { comment } adam ran out of digits , { comment } uh , and did n't have time to regenerate any . professor c : oh ! oh ! i guess it 's well there 's no real reason to write our names on here then , phd a : yeah , if you want to put your credit card numbers and , uh professor c : is there ? grad e : oh , no ? professor c : or do did any do we need the names for the other stuff , phd a : uh , yeah , i do need your names and and the time , and all that , professor c : or ? oh , ok . phd a : cuz we put that into the `` key `` files . professor c : oh , ok . phd a : um . but w that 's why we have the forms , uh , even if there are no digits . professor c : ok , yeah , i did n't notice this . i 'm sitting here and i was i was about to read them too . it 's a , uh , blank sheet of paper . phd a : so i guess we 're we 're done . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about fir filters and dealing with additive noise </s> phd a : ok , we 're on . professor c : ok , what are we talking about today ? phd b : i do n't know . do you have news from the conference talk ? uh , that was programmed for yesterday i guess . professor c : uh phd d : yesterday professor c : uh phd d : yesterday morning on video conference . professor c : oh , i 'm sorry . grad e : oh . conference call . professor c : i know now i know what you 're talking about . no , nobody 's told me anything . phd b : alright . phd a : oh , this was the , uh , talk where they were supposed to try to decide phd b : to to decide what to do , phd a : ah , right . phd b : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah . no , that would have been a good thing to find out before this meeting , that 's . no , i have no i have no idea . um , uh , so i mean , let 's let 's assume for right now that we 're just kind of plugging on ahead , phd b : yeah . professor c : because even if they tell us that , uh , the rules are different , uh , we 're still interested in doing what we 're doing . so what are you doing ? phd b : mm - hmm . uh , well , we 've a little bit worked on trying to see , uh , what were the bugs and the problem with the latencies . phd d : to improve phd b : so , we took first we took the lda filters and , uh , we designed new filters , using uh recursive filters actually . professor c : so when you say `` we `` , is that something sunil is doing or is that ? phd b : i 'm sorry ? professor c : who is doing that ? phd b : uh , us . yeah . professor c : oh , oh . oh , ok . phd b : so we took the filters the fir filters and we { comment } designed , uh , iir filters that have the same frequency response . phd d : but professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : well , similar , but that have shorter delays . professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : so they had two filters , one for the low frequency bands and another for the high frequency bands . and so we redesigned two filters . and the low frequency band has sixty - four milliseconds of delay , and the high frequency band filter has something like eleven milliseconds compared to the two hundred milliseconds of the iir filters . but it 's not yet test . so we have the filters but we still have to implement a routine that does recursive filtering and professor c : you you had a discussion with sunil about this though ? phd b : no . no . professor c : uh - huh . yeah , you should talk with him . phd b : yeah , yeah . professor c : yeah . no , i mean , because the the the the whole problem that happened before was coordination , phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : right ? so so you need to discuss with him what we 're doing , phd b : yeah . professor c : uh , cuz they could be doing the same thing and or something . phd b : mm - hmm . uh , i yeah , i do n't know if th that 's what they were trying to they were trying to do something different like taking , uh well , using filter that takes only a past professor c : right . phd b : and this is just a little bit different . but i will i will send him an email and tell him exactly what we are doing , so . professor c : yeah , yeah . um , i mean we just we just have to be in contact more . i think that the the fact that we we did that with had that thing with the latencies was indicative of the fact that there was n't enough communication . phd b : mm - hmm . alright . um , yeah . well , there is w one , um , remark about these filters , that they do n't have a linear phase . so , professor c : right . phd b : well , i do n't know , perhaps it perhaps it does n't hurt because the phase is almost linear but . um , and so , yeah , for the delay i gave you here , it 's it 's , uh , computed on the five hertz modulation frequency , which is the mmm , well , the most important for speech so . uh , this is the first thing . professor c : so that would be , uh , a reduction of a hundred and thirty - six milliseconds , phd d : the low f f phd b : yeah . professor c : which , uh what was the total we ended up with through the whole system ? phd b : three hundred and thirty . professor c : so that would be within ? phd b : yeah , but there are other points actually , uh , which will perhaps add some more delay . is that some other other stuff in the process were perhaps not very um perf well , not very correct , like the downsampling which w was simply dropping frames . professor c : yeah . phd b : um , so we will try also to add a nice downsampling having a filter that that professor c : uh - huh . phd b : well , a low - pass filter at at twenty - five hertz . uh , because wh when when we look at the lda filters , well , they are basically low - pass but they leave a lot of what 's above twenty - five hertz . professor c : yeah . phd b : um , and so , yeah , this will be another filter which would add ten milliseconds again . professor c : yeah . phd b : um , yeah , and then there 's a third thing , is that , um , basically the way on - line normalization was done uh , is just using this recursion on on the um , um , on the feature stream , professor c : yeah . phd b : and but this is a filter , so it has also a delay . uh , and when we look at this filter actually it has a delay of eighty - five milliseconds . so if we professor c : eighty - five . phd b : yeah . if we want to be very correct , so if we want to the estimation of the mean t t to to be well , the right estimation of the mean , we have to t to take eighty - five milliseconds in the future . mmm . professor c : hmm ! that 's a little bit of a problem . phd b : yeah . um , but , well , when we add up everything it 's it will be alright . we would be at six so , sixty - five , plus ten , plus for the downsampling , plus eighty - five for the on - line normalization . so it 's plus plus eighty for the neural net and pca . professor c : yeah , but then there 's oh . phd b : so it would be around two hundred and forty so , well , professor c : just just barely in there . phd b : plus plus the frames , but it 's ok . phd a : what 's the allowable ? professor c : two - fifty , unless they changed the rules . which there is there 's some discussion of . phd a : what were they thinking of changing it to ? professor c : but phd b : yeah . professor c : uh , well the people who had very low latency want it to be low uh , very very very narrow , uh , latency bound . and the people who have longer latency do n't . so . phd b : so , yeah . professor c : unfortunately we 're the main ones with long latency , but but , uh , phd b : yeah , and basically the best proposal had something like thirty or forty milliseconds of latency . professor c : you know , it 's yeah . phd b : so . well . professor c : yeah , so they were basically i mean , they were more or less trading computation for performance and we were , uh , trading latency for performance . and they were dealing with noise explicitly and we were n't , and so i think of it as complementary , that if we can put the phd a : think of it as what ? professor c : complementary . i think the best systems so , uh , everything that we did in in a way it was it was just adamantly insisting on going in with a brain damaged system , which is something actually , we 've done a lot over the last thirteen years . uh , which is we say , well this is the way we should do it . and then we do it . and then someone else does something that 's straight forward . so , w th w this was a test that largely had additive noise and we did we adde did absolutely nothing explicitly to handle ad additive noise . phd a : right . professor c : we just , uh , you know , trained up systems to be more discriminant . and , uh , we did this , uh , rasta - like filtering which was done in the log domain and was tending to handle convolutional noise . we did we actually did nothing about additive noise . so , um , the , uh , spectral sub subtraction schemes a couple places did seem to seem to do a nice job . and so , uh , we 're talking about putting putting some of that in while still keeping some of our stuff . i think you should be able to end up with a system that 's better than both but clearly the way that we 're operating for this other stuff does involved some latency to to get rid of most of that latency . to get down to forty or fifty milliseconds we 'd have to throw out most of what we 're doing . and and , uh , i do n't think there 's any good reason for it in the application actually . i mean , you 're you 're you 're speaking to a recognizer on a remote server and , uh , having a a a quarter second for some processing to clean it up . it does n't seem like it 's that big a deal . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : these are n't large vocabulary things so the decoder should n't take a really long time , and . phd a : and i do n't think anybody 's gon na notice the difference between a quarter of a second of latency and thirty milliseconds of latency . professor c : so . no . what what does wa was your experience when you were doing this stuff with , uh , the the the surgical , uh , uh , microscopes and so forth . um , how long was it from when somebody , uh , finished an utterance to when , uh , something started happening ? phd a : um , we had a silence detector , so we would look for the end of an utterance based on the silence detector . professor c : mm - hmm . phd a : and i i ca n't remember now off the top of my head how many frames of silence we had to detect before we would declare it to be the end of an utterance . professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd a : um , but it was , uh , i would say it was probably around the order of two hundred and fifty milliseconds . professor c : yeah , and that 's when you 'd start doing things . phd a : yeah , we did the back trace at that point to get the answer . professor c : yeah . of course that did n't take too long at that point . phd a : no , no it was pretty quick . professor c : yeah . phd a : so professor c : yeah , so you you so you had a phd a : this w professor c : so you had a a quarter second delay before , uh , plus some little processing time , phd a : right . professor c : and then the the microscope would start moving or something . phd a : right . professor c : yeah . phd a : right . professor c : and there 's physical inertia there , so probably the the motion itself was all phd a : and it felt to , uh , the users that it was instantaneous . i mean , as fast as talking to a person . it th i do n't think anybody ever complained about the delay . professor c : yeah , so you would think as long as it 's under half a second or something . phd a : yeah . professor c : uh , i 'm not an expert on that phd a : yeah . i do n't remember the exact numbers but it was something like that . professor c : yeah . phd a : i do n't think you can really tell . a person i do n't think a person can tell the difference between , uh , you know , a quarter of a second and a hundred milliseconds , and i 'm not even sure if we can tell the difference between a quarter of a second and half a second . professor c : yeah . phd a : i mean it just it feels so quick . professor c : yeah . i mean , basically if you yeah , if you said , uh , um , `` what 's the , uh , uh what 's the shortest route to the opera ? `` and it took half a second to get back to you , phd a : yeah . professor c : i mean , it would be f i mean , it might even be too abrupt . you might have to put in a s a s a delay . phd a : yeah . i mean , it may feel different than talking to a person professor c : yeah . phd a : because when we talk to each other we tend to step on each other 's utterances . so like if i 'm asking you a question , you may start answering before i 'm even done . professor c : yeah . phd a : so it it would probably feel different professor c : right . phd a : but i do n't think it would feel slow . professor c : right . well , anyway , i mean , i think we could cut we know what else , we could cut down on the neural net time by by , uh , playing around a little bit , going more into the past , or something like that . we t we talked about that . phd a : so is the latency from the neural net caused by how far ahead you 're looking ? professor c : mm - hmm . phd b : mm - hmm . professor c : and there 's also well , there 's the neural net and there 's also this , uh , uh , multi - frame , uh , uh , klt . phd a : was n't there was it in the , uh , recurrent neural nets where they were n't looking ahead at all ? professor c : they were n't looking ahead much . they p they looked ahead a little bit . phd a : a little bit . ok . professor c : yeah . yeah , i mean , you could do this with a recurrent net . and and then but you also could just , um , i mean , we have n't experimented with this but i imagine you could , um , uh , predict a , uh um , a label , uh , from more in the past than in than than in the future . i mean , we 've d we 've done some stuff with that before . i think it it works ok . phd b : mm - hmm . phd a : we 've always had usually we used the symmetric windows but i do n't think professor c : yeah , but we 've but we played a little bit with with asymmetric , guys . phd a : yeah . professor c : you can do it . so . so , that 's what that 's what you 're busy with , s messing around with this , phd b : uh , yeah . </s>
<s> what did the team think about the length of silence before declaring an utterance ? </s> phd a : and i i ca n't remember now off the top of my head how many frames of silence we had to detect before we would declare it to be the end of an utterance . professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd a : um , but it was , uh , i would say it was probably around the order of two hundred and fifty milliseconds . professor c : yeah , and that 's when you 'd start doing things . phd a : yeah , we did the back trace at that point to get the answer . professor c : yeah . of course that did n't take too long at that point . phd a : no , no it was pretty quick . professor c : yeah . phd a : so professor c : yeah , so you you so you had a phd a : this w professor c : so you had a a quarter second delay before , uh , plus some little processing time , phd a : right . professor c : and then the the microscope would start moving or something . phd a : right . professor c : yeah . phd a : right . professor c : and there 's physical inertia there , so probably the the motion itself was all phd a : and it felt to , uh , the users that it was instantaneous . i mean , as fast as talking to a person . it th i do n't think anybody ever complained about the delay . professor c : yeah , so you would think as long as it 's under half a second or something . phd a : yeah . professor c : uh , i 'm not an expert on that </s>
<s> what did the professor think about the latency ? </s> professor c : i think the best systems so , uh , everything that we did in in a way it was it was just adamantly insisting on going in with a brain damaged system , which is something actually , we 've done a lot over the last thirteen years . uh , which is we say , well this is the way we should do it . and then we do it . and then someone else does something that 's straight forward . so , w th w this was a test that largely had additive noise and we did we adde did absolutely nothing explicitly to handle ad additive noise . phd a : right . professor c : we just , uh , you know , trained up systems to be more discriminant . and , uh , we did this , uh , rasta - like filtering which was done in the log domain and was tending to handle convolutional noise . we did we actually did nothing about additive noise . so , um , the , uh , spectral sub subtraction schemes a couple places did seem to seem to do a nice job . and so , uh , we 're talking about putting putting some of that in while still keeping some of our stuff . i think you should be able to end up with a system that 's better than both but clearly the way that we 're operating for this other stuff does involved some latency to to get rid of most of that latency . to get down to forty or fifty milliseconds we 'd have to throw out most of what we 're doing . and and , uh , i do n't think there 's any good reason for it in the application actually . i mean , you 're you 're you 're speaking to a recognizer on a remote server and , uh , having a a a quarter second for some processing to clean it up . it does n't seem like it 's that big a deal . phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : these are n't large vocabulary things so the decoder should n't take a really long time , and . phd a : and i do n't think anybody 's gon na notice the difference between a quarter of a second of latency and thirty milliseconds of latency . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about dealing with smaller features of recordings </s> grad e : um . well , i 've i 've talked to some of you already . um , but i 'm , uh , looking into extending the work done by larry saul and john allen and uh mazin rahim . um , they they have a system that 's , uh , a multi - band , um , system but their multi - band is is a little different than the way that we 've been doing multi - band in the past , where um where we 've been @ @ { comment } uh taking um sub - band features and i training up these neural nets and on on phonetic targets , and then combining them some somehow down the line , um , they 're they 're taking sub - band features and , um , training up a detector that detects for , um , these phonetic features for example , um , he presents um , uh , a detector to detect sonorance . and so what what it basically is is , um it 's there 's at the lowest level , there it 's it 's an or ga i mean , it 's an and gate . so , uh , on each sub - band you have several independent tests , to test whether um , there 's the existence of sonorance in a sub - band . and then , um , it c it 's combined by a soft and gate . and at the at the higher level , for every if , um the higher level there 's a soft or gate . uh , so if if this detector detects um , the presence of of sonorance in any of the sub - bands , then the detect uh , the or gate at the top says , `` ok , well this frame has evidence of sonorance . `` phd a : what are what are some of the low level detectors that they use ? grad e : and these are all oh , ok . well , the low level detectors are logistic regressions . um , and the , uh professor c : so that , by the way , basically is a is one of the units in our in our our neural network . grad e : the one o professor c : so that 's all it is . it 's a sig it 's a sigmoid , grad e : yeah . professor c : uh , with weighted sum at the input , which you train by gradient descent . grad e : right . yeah , so he uses , um , an em algorithm to to um train up these um parameters for the logistic regression . professor c : well , actually , yeah , grad e : the professor c : so i was using em to get the targets . so so you have this this this and gate what we were calling an and gate , but it 's a product product rule thing at the output . and then he uses , uh , i u and then feeding into that are i 'm sorry , there 's it 's an or at the output , is n't it ? yeah , grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : so that 's the product . and then , um , then he has each of these and things . and , um , but so they 're little neural neural units . um , and , um , they have to have targets . and so the targets come from em . phd a : and so are each of these , low level detectors { comment } are they , uh are these something that you decide ahead of time , like `` i 'm going to look for this particular feature or i 'm going to look at this frequency , `` or what what what are they looking at ? grad e : um phd a : what are their inputs ? grad e : uh right , so the ok , so at each for each sub - band { comment } there are basically , uh , several measures of snr and and correlation . phd a : ah , ok , ok . grad e : um , um and he said there 's like twenty of these per per sub - band . um , and for for every s every sub - band , e you you just pick ahead of time , um , `` i 'm going to have like five i independent logistic tests . `` phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and you initialize these parameters , um , in some some way and use em to come up with your training targets for a for the the low - level detectors . phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and then , once you get that done , you you you train the whole whole thing on maximum likelihood . um , and h he shows that using this this method to detect sonorance is it 's very robust compared to , um to typical , uh , full - band gaussian mixtures um estimations of of sonorance . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did the professor think about detecting smaller units of sound ? </s> professor c : so that , by the way , basically is a is one of the units in our in our our neural network . grad e : the one o professor c : so that 's all it is . it 's a sig it 's a sigmoid , grad e : yeah . professor c : uh , with weighted sum at the input , which you train by gradient descent . grad e : right . yeah , so he uses , um , an em algorithm to to um train up these um parameters for the logistic regression . professor c : well , actually , yeah , grad e : the professor c : so i was using em to get the targets . so so you have this this this and gate what we were calling an and gate , but it 's a product product rule thing at the output . and then he uses , uh , i u and then feeding into that are i 'm sorry , there 's it 's an or at the output , is n't it ? yeah , grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : so that 's the product . and then , um , then he has each of these and things . and , um , but so they 're little neural neural units . um , and , um , they have to have targets . and so the targets come from em . phd a : and so are each of these , low level detectors { comment } are they , uh are these something that you decide ahead of time , like `` i 'm going to look for this particular feature or i 'm going to look at this frequency , `` or what what what are they looking at ? grad e : um phd a : what are their inputs ? grad e : uh right , so the ok , so at each for each sub - band { comment } there are basically , uh , several measures of snr and and correlation . phd a : ah , ok , ok . grad e : um , um and he said there 's like twenty of these per per sub - band . um , and for for every s every sub - band , e you you just pick ahead of time , um , `` i 'm going to have like five i independent logistic tests . `` phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and you initialize these parameters , um , in some some way and use em to come up with your training targets for a for the the low - level detectors . phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and then , once you get that done , you you you train the whole whole thing on maximum likelihood . um , and h he shows that using this this method to detect sonorance is it 's very robust compared to , um to typical , uh , full - band gaussian mixtures um estimations of of sonorance . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad e : and , uh so so that 's just that 's just one detector . so you can imagine building many of these detectors on different features . you get enough of these detectors together , um , then you have enough information to do , um , higher level discrimination , for example , discriminating between phones phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and then you keep working your way up until you you build a full recognizer . phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : so , um , that 's that 's the direction which i 'm i 'm thinking about going in my quals . phd a : cool . professor c : you know , it has a number of properties that i really liked . i mean , one is the going towards , um , using narrow band information for , uh , ph phonetic features of some sort rather than just , uh , immediately going for the the typical sound units . phd a : right . professor c : another thing i like about it is that you t this thing is going to be trained explicitly trained for a product of errors rule , which is what , uh , allen keeps pointing out that fletcher observed in the twenties , phd a : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , for people listening to narrow band stuff . that 's friday 's talk , by the way . and then , um , uh , the third thing i like about it is , uh , and we 've played around with this in a different kind of way a little bit but it has n't been our dominant way of of operating anything , um , this issue of where the targets come from . so in our case when we 've been training it multi - band things , the way we get the targets for the individual bands is , uh , that we get the phonetic label for the sound there </s>
<s> what did grade e think about sonorance ? </s> grad e : um . well , i 've i 've talked to some of you already . um , but i 'm , uh , looking into extending the work done by larry saul and john allen and uh mazin rahim . um , they they have a system that 's , uh , a multi - band , um , system but their multi - band is is a little different than the way that we 've been doing multi - band in the past , where um where we 've been @ @ { comment } uh taking um sub - band features and i training up these neural nets and on on phonetic targets , and then combining them some somehow down the line , um , they 're they 're taking sub - band features and , um , training up a detector that detects for , um , these phonetic features for example , um , he presents um , uh , a detector to detect sonorance . and so what what it basically is is , um it 's there 's at the lowest level , there it 's it 's an or ga i mean , it 's an and gate . so , uh , on each sub - band you have several independent tests , to test whether um , there 's the existence of sonorance in a sub - band . and then , um , it c it 's combined by a soft and gate . and at the at the higher level , for every if , um the higher level there 's a soft or gate . uh , so if if this detector detects um , the presence of of sonorance in any of the sub - bands , then the detect uh , the or gate at the top says , `` ok , well this frame has evidence of sonorance . `` phd a : what are what are some of the low level detectors that they use ? grad e : and these are all oh , ok . well , the low level detectors are logistic regressions . um , and the , uh professor c : so that , by the way , basically is a is one of the units in our in our our neural network . grad e : the one o professor c : so that 's all it is . it 's a sig it 's a sigmoid , grad e : yeah . professor c : uh , with weighted sum at the input , which you train by gradient descent . grad e : right . yeah , so he uses , um , an em algorithm to to um train up these um parameters for the logistic regression . professor c : well , actually , yeah , grad e : the professor c : so i was using em to get the targets . so so you have this this this and gate what we were calling an and gate , but it 's a product product rule thing at the output . and then he uses , uh , i u and then feeding into that are i 'm sorry , there 's it 's an or at the output , is n't it ? yeah , grad e : mm - hmm . professor c : so that 's the product . and then , um , then he has each of these and things . and , um , but so they 're little neural neural units . um , and , um , they have to have targets . and so the targets come from em . phd a : and so are each of these , low level detectors { comment } are they , uh are these something that you decide ahead of time , like `` i 'm going to look for this particular feature or i 'm going to look at this frequency , `` or what what what are they looking at ? grad e : um phd a : what are their inputs ? grad e : uh right , so the ok , so at each for each sub - band { comment } there are basically , uh , several measures of snr and and correlation . phd a : ah , ok , ok . grad e : um , um and he said there 's like twenty of these per per sub - band . um , and for for every s every sub - band , e you you just pick ahead of time , um , `` i 'm going to have like five i independent logistic tests . `` phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and you initialize these parameters , um , in some some way and use em to come up with your training targets for a for the the low - level detectors . phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : and then , once you get that done , you you you train the whole whole thing on maximum likelihood . um , and h he shows that using this this method to detect sonorance is it 's very robust compared to , um to typical , uh , full - band gaussian mixtures um estimations of of sonorance . phd a : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . grad e : and , uh so so that 's just that 's just one detector . so you can imagine building many of these detectors on different features . you get enough of these detectors together , um , then you have enough information to do , um , higher level discrimination , for example , discriminating between phones phd a : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . hi team . hope you had a good lunch . okay we 're back for the conceptual design meeting . um let 's get started . 'kay , here is the agenda for today 's meeting . um we 're gon na open it and i 'm gon na keep the minutes as project manager . we 're gon na have three presentations , one from each of you again . and then we are going to come to decision on the remote control concepts and then we 're gon na close it up . and we have forty minutes again . 'kay , and just to reiterate um after this meeting the team will reach a decision on the concepts of the remote control . okay . let 's go ahead and start off with your presentations . who would like to go first ? industrial designer : just trying to move mine right now . project manager : okay . um courtney would you mind starting us off ? marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . trend watching ? 'kay . marketing : yeah . okay , so trend watching . uh since we do put the fashion in electronics , it is kind of important how our product looks . so i guess we can go ahead and go to the next . so what they want . right now customers want fancy versus functional . um basically about fifty eight percent of what they like of the product that they want , describing like the in order of how much they want , fifty eight per cent of the decision of what it should look like , fancy versus functional , and then it has to also be technologically innovative , and yet easy to use . so the customer basically is confused . they do n't know exactly what they want . they want us to tell them . industrial designer : they want everything , but simply . marketing : yes . exactly . industrial designer : okay . marketing : so we can go to next . project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : okay . so in milan and paris recently the trends have been showing that clothing , shoes and furniture are basically just covered with fruits and vegetable patterns . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : so i do n't know if we want to go with that um and also the spongy feel is in in contrast to last year . i do n't know really , i mean i guess the spongy could relate to the buttons if we want to project manager : mm . mm . marketing : rather than like a hard clicky button that you find on like some mobiles and stuff , you 'd want like a softer touch . i mean do you guys know what i mean . project manager : right . yes . industrial designer : yeah th marketing : yeah . um . but as for the fruits and vegetable patterns , i do n't know if we really want to go with that , because it is just a trend , project manager : right . marketing : and our product we want to stay around for much longer than just a few months , project manager : right . people do n't buy a new remote every so often . industrial designer : i i can marketing : because yeah . i mean that could just be a spring thing right now . industrial designer : i can address some of that issue , i think , with uh my presentation . marketing : okay . awesome . project manager : okay . marketing : um so design preferences , um we need easy to read like large buttons , clearly labelled so that , i mean 'cause we talked about that being a problem . um and then also buttons illuminating upon touch , you said that in your design , with the bulb . um and that could also tie in with the colour scheme . uh we need the real reaction logo and colour scheme obviously . that 's one of our key goals , we wan na promote our product . and i was thinking about different types of designs and i came up with something . actually right here . so what we could do is something like an old-fashioned telephone like this , where we put the buttons around , like we 'd put a big on-off button or something else in the middle , i mean it could be the arrows or whatever for channel up and down , and then put the numbers around in like an old-fashioned dial shape . 'cause then it 'll appeal to older generation and like said retro 's cool . so it 's classically retro . so i mean that 's just an idea if you guys like it . project manager : very good . i like it . okay , ready for the next slide ? marketing : and , yep . and that 's it . project manager : op mm 'kay . industrial designer : okay . project manager : great . great presentation . ready ? user interface : okay hang on . project manager : 'kay . user interface : see if it 's there . project manager : which one is it ? user interface : i do n't know . hang on . interface concepts , no ? project manager : interface concepts new . user interface : either refresh it , or it sh oh wait , maybe i did n't put it there . hang on . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : mine will always read copy of something or other . project manager : sorry ? industrial designer : i i copied mine before i sent it over . project manager : oh okay . user interface : sorry , hang on . do n't know . project manager : oh there we go . user interface : okay . okay , um looking at the interface concept , it 's gon na be mostly examples of possibilities of where we can go with this . uh if you wan na start the next slide . project manager : sure . user interface : um uh ca n't really see , but there 's two possible ways , on the r left , if you see on th on the sides of of the remote , you have the sort of scroll down , so you have that option right there . and then also there 's the idea of the base . that 's sort of like an idea there . and then on the right , we have what 's really big trend right now , it 's the ipod . it 's becoming really and so you have this sort of very very simplistic menu section uh with the round buttons , and it 's sort of like you have the both kind of trendy and hip , but also very sleek and um and very simple , but technologically advanced . so if you wanted to do that th if we could find a way of sort of like using that idea in a remote control then sort of look into it , but anyway , next . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : um there 's the idea of like being able to do it by feel as well as by um by sight . you 'd you know you 're in the dark , you do n't wan na be looking at the remote control . and the picture particularly is pointing out if you look at the top volume button it 's a v_ , and so yo you 're kind of feeling a v_ like volume up . what it really is is a v_ and what it you think it is is down , because the down arrow . and so it 's like a sort of a criticism you 'd probably turn that o the other way up . um but then you have you could either do it by raised type , which could be you know , iffy , um sort of old-fashioned in a way . either that or just have it by shape , for example you have a specific triangular shape that you know you 're looking at the up and down arrow . and then the round ones you sort of feel by , you know , that 's the second one down , that sort of thing . so it 's sort of looking into how we wanted t to do it by feel . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . um this is sort of an example of going for a s certain demographic . um this is particularly geared towards children . marketing : that 's cute . user interface : um it 's very cute , and we could probably change it to yellow , bright yellow for like a the for the company logo . um and you have the shapes and it 's very simplistic and friendly looking . um and then the other thing that it would be able to do is just to pro be ab you program certain channels that only these children would watch , so it 's like they ch watch , you know , the c_ beebies or something like that , project manager : user interface : uh keep them away from other channels . so that 's like another ar um , project manager : okay . user interface : i mean , these are three examples sort of looking at it . you have the wider section for the main controls there . uh you could see how many buttons there are . and then on the left you have an example of the round buttons , and a simpler design . on the bottom we probably would n't need that , because it 's more for like a d_v_d_ function which we are not gon na be using . um . so again it 's sort of like just give you ideas and then down at the bottom you have the logos and that 's where you could put the r_r_ , real reaction . project manager : 'kay . user interface : and then finally these are like the sort of same examples , but also some more , just possibilities that we could go with . none of them i 'm particularly keen on by the way . marketing : yeah . user interface : but it 's sort of like just taking aspects out of that and saying , well out of this one we like , you know the round section of um , b or we 'd like the the button size on this . project manager : mm . or i like , you know , the black finish or the silver finish or whatever . marketing : user interface : right . marketing : i have four of those remotes . project manager : good lord . user interface : marketing : project manager : okay . ready ? oh , yeah . okay . user interface : that 's it . project manager : great job . industrial designer : okay , my turn . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . industrial designer : whoo . project manager : what 's the title ? industrial designer : it 'll be copy of component design . project manager : got it . industrial designer : yeah . th that looks like it . 'kay . so basic remote operation runs as follows , press button makes connection with the power source and the rest of the circuit , chip senses the connection , chip produces a morse code infra-red signal , specific to that button . so you press the button , it produces uh a signal that 's encoded specifically for that button . transistors amplify that signal and it goes to the tv 's centre , which interprets the signal response accordingly , changes channel etcetera . so that being said next slide , please . findings oh which were the required materials for the basic internal construction , so all the really simplistic functions that we just discussed , we need rubber for buttons , aluminium for battery y contacts , integrated circuit which consists of a diode , transistor , resonator , resistors , and a capacitator , all those basic things that make a circuit function . um fibreglass and thin copper wire to create the actual circuit board itself . an l_e_d_ , which is a light emitting diode , um contact discs for the buttons , plastic for the casing , and a power-source , whatever power-source we 've actually determined we want . next slide , please . thank you . uh personal preferences , uh to save money for the components , the remote should be mass-produced and basic materials should be bought en masse . um if we find another company who can produce the required chips , casing , l_e_d_ , any additional materials we decide we require at a less expensive rate than we ourselves are producing , we should go for it . next slide , please . um just talking to the um manufacturing division . they suggested power options , solar cells , hand dynamo , and kinetic power , so you shake it and it increases the power . um i 'm not sure how the hand dynamo works , they have yet to get back to me on that . so next slide , please . project manager : interesting . industrial designer : suggested casing options . okay . we can offer options for casing such as straight , curved , double-curved , you know , very specific to the customer . options for materials , plastic , rubber , titanium , wood . i do n't think anyone 's gon na go for a wood one , because splinters marketing : that would be amazing , though , yeah . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no , splinters would industrial designer : um certain restrictions do apply here though . uh latex , you ca n't do solar power with a latex one . so , if they want some a soft squishy rubber , they ca n't have the solar powered option . double-curved , you ca n't do titanium . marketing : what is that ? industrial designer : um that would be two curvatures , so it would actually , if you the shape of your hand , you curve here and you curve here , so you could have two curves that match the shape of your hand to make it more comfortable to hold . now if you wanted that , you ca n't do titanium . and uh so you functions what for the buttons , scrolling function could be very beneficial to us instead of actual buttons themselves . user interface : right . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : i think i have one more slide . project manager : no , okay . industrial designer : no , i did n't . um the manufacturing division also has said that um they have several types of chips and they 've just developed a sample sensor or sample speaker chip , which we could utilise . um push button requires a simple chip and scroll requires more complicated chip . so depends on what we decide we wan na do . in addition to that if we 're offering all those different options to the customer for producing their remote , we 're going to have to have multiples of each type , like a double-curved in rubber , um you know , each option should have a certain select number produced with all those options . so we 'll have to mix it up , make sure we produce enough of everyone . but that could also drive up the price of the actual remote itself if they know that we only produced five thousand , you know , double-curved wooden remotes . marketing : right . okay . project manager : okay . alright , industrial designer : and that 's all i got . project manager : well thank you for those informative presentations . let 's go back to um now we have to make some decisions . where were we ? user interface : let me just add one more thing that i could n't say before , project manager : sure . user interface : and that 's just that there 's the new technology that they 've developed on the voice recognition . um . marketing : oh this the thing we were talking about earlier . user interface : right except that it 's sort of odd , and i 'm no not exactly sure why they are explaining it in the way they are , um there 's a sample sensor and there 's a sample speaker unit for so , you would say like , good morning , coffeemaker , and it would respond , good morning , jill , project manager : user interface : but i 'm not sure exactly how it 's gon na work , 'cause do you programme do we program the responses and the questions . so does that mean that the user then has to ask the specific question , and ca n't change it in order for it to be recognised , or can it be altered in a certain way , or does the actually user program it , to say a channel means this . project manager : right . right . marketing : yeah , like using the menu to be like , enter your name into the screen like on the menu options . user interface : right , marketing : so that way the remote reads it . user interface : so it 's got like a limited memory and programme it . so it 's sort of iffy , but that 's kind of what you 'd say . marketing : i feel like voice recognition would be , i do n't know , w it would be too hard to really project manager : hmm . programme . marketing : i mean we could do it , but project manager : if it 's within our price to get that kind of chip that would , you know , technology industrial designer : well , we are making the chip . marketing : technology . industrial designer : so , i mean but , i guess , we have to look at w what our production cost is for the chip itself anyway . marketing : and it is a growing trend , the higher technological , like industrial designer : yeah . marketing : the , i mean just like the more advanced it is , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : the better it 'll sell . industrial designer : i i thought offering some of those options for different materials that it could be made of different , you know i think we 'd have to decide on the power options , maybe . so that we could reduce cost . marketing : yeah , 'cause we need to know how big it 's gon na be and how heavy . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , that kind of brings us to this , let 's let 's see if we can decide what kind of energy source we want to have first and foremost . um . industrial designer : okay . project manager : do we wan na go for batteries or a stand like the one that we saw illustrated earlier ? marketing : oh the base , yeah . project manager : the base , the charging base with rechargeable batteries ? industrial designer : i think the p user interface : i always feel like first i wan na know what it looks like , before 'cause if it 's something really really small , then it 's sort of harder to imagine a base for it , that was p quite a s substantial size sort of standing up project manager : yeah , and we do n't have multiple things that it has to control , it just has to control the tv . it 's not gon na be a huge universal remote . user interface : right . marketing : we need to decide , well so we can figure how big it 's gon na be , like exactly what buttons we want project manager : what size battery and user interface : well , the other thing is like even if it 's got a few buttons , so we want it to be bigger than this , marketing : and exactly it could be like this . yes . user interface : 'cause it still fits in your hand , so you still wanted something that 's comfortable and substantial , but not necessarily full of buttons . marketing : i 'd , well uh this one is really comfortable , like i like the sides whatever , user interface : are you gon na lose it easier ? marketing : because but if we have the um , the locator , then we do n't have to worry about that . industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : so we can make it small if we have a l locating device . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : if we do a voice-activated locator , though , we 're gon na be looking at a more substantial chip . so user interface : so i that 's the other thing , it 's like you know are we gon na have certain chips that are gon na require bigger size period ? marketing : two double a_s , for this size . user interface : but like , you know , if we get more complicated then it 's gon na v be have to be bigger to just accommodate the chip size . marketing : right . industrial designer : honestly , i think the customer would be kind of irritated by the fact that it has a base if we did do a nice small , compact project manager : right . i agree , it 's either gon na be bigger with a base or smaller with just marketing : yeah . user interface : so we sh marketing : smaller , without project manager : a battery like this guy . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : alright , so what direction do you want to go in ? you wan na vote ? marketing : i think if we had a a locating device with the small one , i think that seems way more advanced . project manager : i 'm kind of i 'm kind of leaning in the direction of this kind of industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'm a away from the base . project manager : bigger and the base . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : that just seems so clunky and industrial designer : 'kay so marketing : yeah , because i mean if even looking at cellphones right now , those trends the smaller the hotter it is , user interface : smaller and smaller , yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah industrial designer : the only problem with that is if you forget to take it out of your pocket and it goes in wash . user interface : you 're kidding . marketing : oh . project manager : industrial designer : you know it happens . user interface : industrial designer : i 've had three watches go that way too . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : oh watches i 've but i 've never washed a cell phone . marketing : ouch . a phone , whoa , that would wow , that would hurt . project manager : okay , so what kind of material do we want to be made out of ? industrial designer : pieces everywhere . well , we have lots of options . i do n't think wood is a viable option . marketing : yeah wood . project manager : no . oh what did you user interface : well , titanium s project manager : oh sorry , go ahead . user interface : i was saying that titanium , if we 're being restricted then i would probably lean away from that . marketing : yeah , 'cause if it 's gon na cost us more to produce a chip , titanium will be more expensive . project manager : right . industrial designer : however , project manager : what would you recommend ? industrial designer : well , we only wan na sell it for twenty five euro marketing : yeah . industrial designer : right ? 'cause i was thinking if we wanted to get the high in market then you could produce a few in titanium , user interface : yeah . that 'll yeah , exactly . industrial designer : make them a rarity so to speak . user interface : the selling point , yeah . marketing : we could do that , because all our research shows that people are definitely willing to spend more if industrial designer : yeah . user interface : are we restricted by this ? project manager : i i think we should just focus on one design and one concept right now.i 'm industrial designer : well the original user interface : twenty five euros project manager : not sure that we 'll have the time and money to produce a whole array of industrial designer : okay . project manager : remotes . if this was a successful remote , we might then produce a higher end version of it , i think . industrial designer : yeah . good plan . marketing : good plan . project manager : okay , so we wan na go for plastic , or what would you recommend for materials ? industrial designer : honestly i 'd recommend like um uh since we 're going with batteries instead of solar power , i 'd recommend maybe a uh soft like latex , because we could produce , you know how cellphones have those overlays that you can change the colour . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : we could do uh one that fits in with the trends of the year so , because this year is all fruit , god only knows why , user interface : marketing : yeah , who knows . industrial designer : um we could do f a cherry cover for this year and then i if next year is stripes or solids , you know project manager : okay . user interface : so you 're talking about like when it leaves our salesroom then it 's all gon na be cherry-coloured or is it gon na be the kinda thing where people come back and swap it ? marketing : o or we could like take off this . project manager : they could buy cases , maybe , industrial designer : they could come back . and buy the extra case . project manager : if they wanted . user interface : okay . project manager : i think it 's good to sell a basic thing and then sell options . industrial designer : so we could do like a b a hard base plastic , and then we could give two latex covers to start . marketing : yeah . user interface : the what the top face , right ? marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . okay . marketing : yeah , because the soft latex definitely is squishy . that 's in . well i mean squishier than like , yeah , just a hard plastic . project manager : right . right . okay , and what kind of chip would we need for this guy ? industrial designer : how complicated are we gon na go with the voice activated user interface : yeah . project manager : i do n't think we should do voice , i think we should just do um the recognition for when it 's lost , you know . could we user interface : a tracker , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : 'cause that uh what it type of , yeah , for voice activation would it be like a certain term what we would say like , because people could just be talking and we do n't want it going off all the time . project manager : right . industrial designer : well , we could give it a specific code , you know , remote missing . marketing : so uh ooh . project manager : marketing : uh see i 'm uh i 'm strangely attracted to it , because i know that 's it 's definitely gon na be big , because it 's , i do n't know , it 's just so high-tech . user interface : well , my little sister got for christmas she got one of those key finders that 's like a key-ring , and you have to whistle in a certain frequency for it to work . industrial designer : yeah , see that would just irritate me . user interface : and then she would laugh and it would start going off in her purse , and you could n't turn it off . project manager : oh dear . user interface : so it became highly irritating . marketing : then maybe voice project manager : okay . industrial designer : so i think having a key-phrase is much better . marketing : maybe voice activation wo n't be good . project manager : okay . alright . but it 's not gon na be voice activated in the fact that you would say , channel up , and it would work , right ? marketing : yeah , n n no , we just want it to be a finder . project manager : just a user interface : but then it project manager : okay , alright . user interface : hmm . okay . marketing : but do can your can the department make industrial designer : that would be like a mid-class um yeah . marketing : oh , brilliant then . industrial designer : so we do n't actually have to go for well , if they 've just developed the sample sensor , sample speaker , it 's a brand new chip . why not introduce it in this way ? project manager : mm 'kay . marketing : yeah , good point . project manager : uh and what size batteries , double a_ , triple a_ ? marketing : i think triple a_ , it 'll be lighter . project manager : two ? could it run off of two marketing : i mean more more come in a package . user interface : well , that depends on what the energy is needed . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think , well , we could d r do two or we could do one small lithium , 'cause you know the lithium batteries are doing quite well in most other electronic products , right ? so they 're more widely available now . and they also have a longer battery life than most batteries . project manager : they 're more expensive though , too . industrial designer : but if you only have to replace it every five years . project manager : mm . thoughts anybody ? marketing : that 's a good point . user interface : as long as we sell it with it . industrial designer : well , how about a initial , you get one battery when you buy it , user interface : right , that 's what i meant . industrial designer : 'cause i 'm pretty sure we can get them pretty cheap on bulk . marketing : we could think about it and come back to it next meeting . project manager : okay . yeah . alright . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we still have one more meeting . project manager : okay . so we 've covered that first category , user interface concept , meaning design . user interface : what 's it gon na yeah , what 's it gon na look like . project manager : okay . i ki i kind of like your idea about the retro phone dial , and that the central button could have , maybe our logo on it ? it might be the four way scroll , too . i mean if marketing : yeah , it could be whatever , project manager : yeah . marketing : as long as there 's something big in the middle , because like the old phones , there 's like that just like piece of metal or like a picture or something in the middle . project manager : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : well , my issue with that is if it got too big though , 'cause if you have the circle and the button in the middle , then is it gon na get wider than your your hands are , marketing : oh , that 's true . user interface : because w and then would the buttons be too small if it was enough to fit on it ? marketing : good point . industrial designer : in the sample ones that you showed us there was one that had the scroll buttons on the side , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : which i think if we make it curved like a hand like a hand-shape like if we put the the scroll-button on the side , user interface : yeah . project manager : oh , i see what you mean . industrial designer : that could be particularly useful . project manager : i think so . marketing : so scroll buttons on the side and then buttons on top ? project manager : yeah , i like that . 'kay . marketing : but we definitely if we have scroll things on the side , we definitely have to have 'em labelled . yeah , industrial designer : well , if it 's just up and down marketing : like on the side of it . oh if it 's just up and down . user interface : but is that for industrial designer : volume or channel . user interface : which ? industrial designer : i do n't know . marketing : well , you could do some on both sides . user interface : do we have both sides ? project manager : can we ? industrial designer : mm yeah . we should probably make it that you have to depress it to activate it then , project manager : so that you 're just not holding it and it changes the chan marketing : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause oth otherwise you 're not just holding it and going like this , you know . marketing : that 's squishy . that 's squishy . user interface : well , the other option is in instead of a scroll you just have the buttons up on the side which are on the side . marketing : have buttons . project manager : mm . yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah , that . project manager : hmm . 'kay any other ideas ? user interface : um what colour ? project manager : oh , yeah . latex covers . w industrial designer : we have to make sure that logo always sticks out when we put the latex covers on , so we 'll have to like have a little square or something , so that the our logo 's available . user interface : well i sort of like having the a yellow strip at the bottom with the r_r_ like that . and that 's at the bottom of it . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think maybe we should do it on a b button itself though , because if people are able to change the covers , user interface : which button ? project manager : i do n't know , maybe the on-off button , something , some the menu button , i do n't know , but you know if we 're gon na put our company logo on there and somebody could just get another one . are they all gon na have our company logo on them ? every cover ? industrial designer : yeah , i do n't think we should do that , because that would just be icky . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i think maybe putting it on a button is probably a good idea . project manager : if we want it to be visible and um are all those those one that you showed where they were um s met silver-metallic looking ? but those are plastic , right ? user interface : yeah . project manager : they 're not titanium . user interface : yeah . project manager : i kind of like that look . uh but , or if it was really industrial designer : for our base one ? project manager : yeah , for the base or if we 're going for the retro look , i think , like a really shiny black would be cool . marketing : yeah , project manager : what are your thoughts ? marketing : or like a gun-metal grey , project manager : gun-metal gray . marketing : 'cause then it combines the silver and the black . project manager : there you go , gun-metal gray . user interface : i 'm just really wary of the putting anything on a button . industrial designer : it 'll wear off . user interface : what 's the button marketing : yeah , buttons wear off . user interface : well , w w then what 's the button do , and how do you know that that is what the button does ? i guess . just looking at examples , y you just do n't ever see the logo on a button , it 's always on the actual casing . project manager : right . industrial designer : there 's nothing saying that we have to put the logo on the front of the actual user interface : project manager : on the back ? user interface : but you do n't marketing : but we want it to be seen . project manager : it d visible user interface : but uh , yeah , you do n't see it . project manager : visibility though marketing : we need it to be seen . project manager : 'cause if it was only on the back really the only time you 're gon na see it is when you drop it or when you 're changing the battery . user interface : well , hang on . the other option is , i do n't know if you can see it but it 's like if project manager : i can find it again . user interface : yeah , it 's like the second to last slide . project manager : okay . and yours was called interface concept ? user interface : interface , yeah . project manager : this one ? user interface : yeah . um . project manager : well , for some reason i ca n't get it to just go to that slide directly . user interface : okay , it 's the very right one . you see at the bottom , it 's kind of difficult to see , but you have like a d sort of s division between the bottom like , where the logo is , and if we have the replaceable section , it 's like the top . it does n't necessarily replace the entire top . and so you have that one piece that stays and the rest just sort of clips in . project manager : okay , yes user interface : if c you envisioning it ? and so that stays the same when you have the logo , and then you have this s slip that kinda clips in and that 's the bit that changes . project manager : okay . industrial designer : the only problem is we 're using a latex overlay so it actually would go over top of everything and have holes for the buttons , so i was thinking maybe instead of doing that what we could do is leave a space for where the logo should be . user interface : yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : like a little cut-out kind of industrial designer : yeah . user interface : right . project manager : okay . user interface : that 's like , you know , a a cellphone it 's like the the screen is always just left opened . marketing : right . user interface : and so , what we are gon na do it like bright yellow with the r_r_ ? marketing : yeah . project manager : anybody see anything that they liked in these ones ? marketing : some of tho well , some of those buttons though are blue-based . um well , a lot of those buttons are blue-based . well , kind of . um and then if v we do have them illuminate upon contact , they could illuminate yellow . user interface : yellow . project manager : yellow , i like that idea . user interface : yeah . marketing : like if we like the one all the way on the left , uh you ca you can see it on your computer better . um where the button is actually blue , but the number itself is clear or white or whatever so if you pressed it would illuminate yellow . so we 'd have blue and yellow for the touch buttons . user interface : oh , that one . project manager : i like the yellow illumination idea , very good . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . any other ideas or thoughts ? we all seem to be fairly in agreement about what we wan na do with this project so user interface : um . ha hang on let me catch up . marketing : mm yeah . project manager : 'kay . user interface : did we finalise what buttons we 're including or we just everything that we said before ? project manager : i think there will be time for that later . i 'm guessing . 'kay , well we 're gon na wrap this up . um next meeting is gon na start in thirty minutes , and here 's what we 're each of us going to do . the i_d_ is going to do the look and feel design , the u_i_d_ the user interface design . i think you 're going to get a lot of , i mean , the final say on what buttons get put we 'll all talk about it , but i think , that 's pretty much what you 're gon na do , right ? user interface : yeah . project manager : i guess . 'kay . and you 're gon na do some product evaluation . okay , and right now , the i_d_ and u_i_d_ , you two are going to work together on a prototype using modelling clay . yeah . industrial designer : great . play doh . user interface : fun . project manager : okay , and you should all be getting an email pretty soon . alright . well , thank you for a very productive meeting . </s>
<s> summarize the team 's discussion and decision on the energy source of the remote . </s> project manager : okay , that kind of brings us to this , let 's let 's see if we can decide what kind of energy source we want to have first and foremost . um . industrial designer : okay . project manager : do we wan na go for batteries or a stand like the one that we saw illustrated earlier ? marketing : oh the base , yeah . project manager : the base , the charging base with rechargeable batteries ? industrial designer : i think the p user interface : i always feel like first i wan na know what it looks like , before 'cause if it 's something really really small , then it 's sort of harder to imagine a base for it , that was p quite a s substantial size sort of standing up project manager : yeah , and we do n't have multiple things that it has to control , it just has to control the tv . it 's not gon na be a huge universal remote . user interface : right . marketing : we need to decide , well so we can figure how big it 's gon na be , like exactly what buttons we want project manager : what size battery and user interface : well , the other thing is like even if it 's got a few buttons , so we want it to be bigger than this , marketing : and exactly it could be like this . yes . user interface : 'cause it still fits in your hand , so you still wanted something that 's comfortable and substantial , but not necessarily full of buttons . marketing : i 'd , well uh this one is really comfortable , like i like the sides whatever , user interface : are you gon na lose it easier ? marketing : because but if we have the um , the locator , then we do n't have to worry about that . industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : so we can make it small if we have a l locating device . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : if we do a voice-activated locator , though , we 're gon na be looking at a more substantial chip . so user interface : so i that 's the other thing , it 's like you know are we gon na have certain chips that are gon na require bigger size period ? marketing : two double a_s , for this size . user interface : but like , you know , if we get more complicated then it 's gon na v be have to be bigger to just accommodate the chip size . marketing : right . industrial designer : honestly , i think the customer would be kind of irritated by the fact that it has a base if we did do a nice small , compact project manager : right . i agree , it 's either gon na be bigger with a base or smaller with just marketing : yeah . user interface : so we sh marketing : smaller , without project manager : a battery like this guy . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : alright , so what direction do you want to go in ? you wan na vote ? marketing : i think if we had a a locating device with the small one , i think that seems way more advanced . project manager : i 'm kind of i 'm kind of leaning in the direction of this kind of industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'm a away from the base . project manager : bigger and the base . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : that just seems so clunky and industrial designer : 'kay so marketing : yeah , because i mean if even looking at cellphones right now , those trends the smaller the hotter it is , user interface : smaller and smaller , yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah industrial designer : the only problem with that is if you forget to take it out of your pocket and it goes in wash . user interface : you 're kidding . marketing : oh . project manager : industrial designer : you know it happens . user interface : industrial designer : i 've had three watches go that way too . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : oh watches i 've but i 've never washed a cell phone . marketing : ouch . a phone , whoa , that would wow , that would hurt . project manager : uh and what size batteries , double a_ , triple a_ ? marketing : i think triple a_ , it 'll be lighter . project manager : two ? could it run off of two marketing : i mean more more come in a package . user interface : well , that depends on what the energy is needed . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think , well , we could d r do two or we could do one small lithium , 'cause you know the lithium batteries are doing quite well in most other electronic products , right ? so they 're more widely available now . and they also have a longer battery life than most batteries . project manager : they 're more expensive though , too . industrial designer : but if you only have to replace it every five years . project manager : mm . thoughts anybody ? marketing : that 's a good point . user interface : as long as we sell it with it . industrial designer : well , how about a initial , you get one battery when you buy it , user interface : right , that 's what i meant . industrial designer : 'cause i 'm pretty sure we can get them pretty cheap on bulk . marketing : we could think about it and come back to it next meeting . project manager : okay . yeah . alright . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> how did the team decide against a base for the remote ? </s> project manager : do we wan na go for batteries or a stand like the one that we saw illustrated earlier ? marketing : oh the base , yeah . project manager : the base , the charging base with rechargeable batteries ? industrial designer : i think the p user interface : i always feel like first i wan na know what it looks like , before 'cause if it 's something really really small , then it 's sort of harder to imagine a base for it , that was p quite a s substantial size sort of standing up project manager : yeah , and we do n't have multiple things that it has to control , it just has to control the tv . it 's not gon na be a huge universal remote . user interface : right . marketing : we need to decide , well so we can figure how big it 's gon na be , like exactly what buttons we want project manager : what size battery and user interface : well , the other thing is like even if it 's got a few buttons , so we want it to be bigger than this , marketing : and exactly it could be like this . yes . user interface : 'cause it still fits in your hand , so you still wanted something that 's comfortable and substantial , but not necessarily full of buttons . marketing : i 'd , well uh this one is really comfortable , like i like the sides whatever , user interface : are you gon na lose it easier ? marketing : because but if we have the um , the locator , then we do n't have to worry about that . industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : so we can make it small if we have a l locating device . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : if we do a voice-activated locator , though , we 're gon na be looking at a more substantial chip . so user interface : so i that 's the other thing , it 's like you know are we gon na have certain chips that are gon na require bigger size period ? marketing : two double a_s , for this size . user interface : but like , you know , if we get more complicated then it 's gon na v be have to be bigger to just accommodate the chip size . marketing : right . industrial designer : honestly , i think the customer would be kind of irritated by the fact that it has a base if we did do a nice small , compact project manager : right . i agree , it 's either gon na be bigger with a base or smaller with just marketing : yeah . user interface : so we sh marketing : smaller , without project manager : a battery like this guy . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : mm yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : alright , so what direction do you want to go in ? you wan na vote ? marketing : i think if we had a a locating device with the small one , i think that seems way more advanced . project manager : i 'm kind of i 'm kind of leaning in the direction of this kind of industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i 'm a away from the base . project manager : bigger and the base . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : that just seems so clunky and industrial designer : 'kay so marketing : yeah , because i mean if even looking at cellphones right now , those trends the smaller the hotter it is , user interface : smaller and smaller , yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah industrial designer : the only problem with that is if you forget to take it out of your pocket and it goes in wash . user interface : you 're kidding . marketing : oh . project manager : industrial designer : you know it happens . user interface : industrial designer : i 've had three watches go that way too . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : oh watches i 've but i 've never washed a cell phone . </s>
<s> what points did the team mention about lithium batteries when discussing the energy source for the remote ? </s> industrial designer : i think , well , we could d r do two or we could do one small lithium , 'cause you know the lithium batteries are doing quite well in most other electronic products , right ? so they 're more widely available now . and they also have a longer battery life than most batteries . project manager : they 're more expensive though , too . industrial designer : but if you only have to replace it every five years . project manager : mm . thoughts anybody ? marketing : that 's a good point . user interface : as long as we sell it with it . industrial designer : well , how about a initial , you get one battery when you buy it , user interface : right , that 's what i meant . </s>
<s> summarize the team 's discussion and decision on the user interface concept of the remote . </s> project manager : okay . so we 've covered that first category , user interface concept , meaning design . user interface : what 's it gon na yeah , what 's it gon na look like . project manager : okay . i ki i kind of like your idea about the retro phone dial , and that the central button could have , maybe our logo on it ? it might be the four way scroll , too . i mean if marketing : yeah , it could be whatever , project manager : yeah . marketing : as long as there 's something big in the middle , because like the old phones , there 's like that just like piece of metal or like a picture or something in the middle . project manager : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : well , my issue with that is if it got too big though , 'cause if you have the circle and the button in the middle , then is it gon na get wider than your your hands are , marketing : oh , that 's true . user interface : because w and then would the buttons be too small if it was enough to fit on it ? marketing : good point . industrial designer : in the sample ones that you showed us there was one that had the scroll buttons on the side , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : which i think if we make it curved like a hand like a hand-shape like if we put the the scroll-button on the side , user interface : yeah . project manager : oh , i see what you mean . industrial designer : that could be particularly useful . project manager : i think so . marketing : so scroll buttons on the side and then buttons on top ? project manager : yeah , i like that . 'kay . marketing : but we definitely if we have scroll things on the side , we definitely have to have 'em labelled . yeah , industrial designer : well , if it 's just up and down marketing : like on the side of it . oh if it 's just up and down . user interface : but is that for industrial designer : volume or channel . user interface : which ? industrial designer : i do n't know . marketing : well , you could do some on both sides . user interface : do we have both sides ? project manager : can we ? industrial designer : mm yeah . we should probably make it that you have to depress it to activate it then , project manager : so that you 're just not holding it and it changes the chan marketing : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause oth otherwise you 're not just holding it and going like this , you know . marketing : that 's squishy . that 's squishy . user interface : well , the other option is in instead of a scroll you just have the buttons up on the side which are on the side . marketing : have buttons . project manager : mm . yeah . industrial designer : okay . marketing : yeah , that . project manager : hmm . 'kay any other ideas ? user interface : um what colour ? project manager : oh , yeah . latex covers . w industrial designer : we have to make sure that logo always sticks out when we put the latex covers on , so we 'll have to like have a little square or something , so that the our logo 's available . user interface : well i sort of like having the a yellow strip at the bottom with the r_r_ like that . and that 's at the bottom of it . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think maybe we should do it on a b button itself though , because if people are able to change the covers , user interface : which button ? project manager : i do n't know , maybe the on-off button , something , some the menu button , i do n't know , but you know if we 're gon na put our company logo on there and somebody could just get another one . are they all gon na have our company logo on them ? every cover ? industrial designer : yeah , i do n't think we should do that , because that would just be icky . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i think maybe putting it on a button is probably a good idea . project manager : if we want it to be visible and um are all those those one that you showed where they were um s met silver-metallic looking ? but those are plastic , right ? user interface : yeah . project manager : they 're not titanium . user interface : yeah . project manager : i kind of like that look . uh but , or if it was really industrial designer : for our base one ? project manager : yeah , for the base or if we 're going for the retro look , i think , like a really shiny black would be cool . marketing : yeah , project manager : what are your thoughts ? marketing : or like a gun-metal grey , project manager : gun-metal gray . marketing : 'cause then it combines the silver and the black . project manager : there you go , gun-metal gray . user interface : i 'm just really wary of the putting anything on a button . industrial designer : it 'll wear off . user interface : what 's the button marketing : yeah , buttons wear off . user interface : well , w w then what 's the button do , and how do you know that that is what the button does ? i guess . just looking at examples , y you just do n't ever see the logo on a button , it 's always on the actual casing . project manager : right . industrial designer : there 's nothing saying that we have to put the logo on the front of the actual user interface : project manager : on the back ? user interface : but you do n't marketing : but we want it to be seen . project manager : it d visible user interface : but uh , yeah , you do n't see it . project manager : visibility though marketing : we need it to be seen . project manager : 'cause if it was only on the back really the only time you 're gon na see it is when you drop it or when you 're changing the battery . user interface : well , hang on . the other option is , i do n't know if you can see it but it 's like if project manager : i can find it again . user interface : yeah , it 's like the second to last slide . project manager : okay . and yours was called interface concept ? user interface : interface , yeah . project manager : this one ? user interface : yeah . um . project manager : well , for some reason i ca n't get it to just go to that slide directly . user interface : okay , it 's the very right one . you see at the bottom , it 's kind of difficult to see , but you have like a d sort of s division between the bottom like , where the logo is , and if we have the replaceable section , it 's like the top . it does n't necessarily replace the entire top . and so you have that one piece that stays and the rest just sort of clips in . project manager : okay , yes user interface : if c you envisioning it ? and so that stays the same when you have the logo , and then you have this s slip that kinda clips in and that 's the bit that changes . project manager : okay . industrial designer : the only problem is we 're using a latex overlay so it actually would go over top of everything and have holes for the buttons , so i was thinking maybe instead of doing that what we could do is leave a space for where the logo should be . user interface : yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : like a little cut-out kind of industrial designer : yeah . user interface : right . project manager : okay . user interface : that 's like , you know , a a cellphone it 's like the the screen is always just left opened . marketing : right . user interface : and so , what we are gon na do it like bright yellow with the r_r_ ? marketing : yeah . project manager : anybody see anything that they liked in these ones ? marketing : some of tho well , some of those buttons though are blue-based . um well , a lot of those buttons are blue-based . well , kind of . um and then if v we do have them illuminate upon contact , they could illuminate yellow . user interface : yellow . project manager : yellow , i like that idea . user interface : yeah . marketing : like if we like the one all the way on the left , uh you ca you can see it on your computer better . um where the button is actually blue , but the number itself is clear or white or whatever so if you pressed it would illuminate yellow . so we 'd have blue and yellow for the touch buttons . user interface : oh , that one . project manager : i like the yellow illumination idea , very good . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> when discussing the outer design of the remote , how did user interface advise against project manager 's idea of shaping the remote like a retro phone dial ? </s> project manager : okay . i ki i kind of like your idea about the retro phone dial , and that the central button could have , maybe our logo on it ? it might be the four way scroll , too . i mean if marketing : yeah , it could be whatever , project manager : yeah . marketing : as long as there 's something big in the middle , because like the old phones , there 's like that just like piece of metal or like a picture or something in the middle . project manager : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : well , my issue with that is if it got too big though , 'cause if you have the circle and the button in the middle , then is it gon na get wider than your your hands are , marketing : oh , that 's true . user interface : because w and then would the buttons be too small if it was enough to fit on it ? marketing : good point . industrial designer : in the sample ones that you showed us there was one that had the scroll buttons on the side , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : which i think if we make it curved like a hand like a hand-shape like if we put the the scroll-button on the side , user interface : yeah . project manager : oh , i see what you mean . industrial designer : that could be particularly useful . </s>
<s> what did the team decide to do for the logo to remain visible on the remote ? </s> industrial designer : we have to make sure that logo always sticks out when we put the latex covers on , so we 'll have to like have a little square or something , so that the our logo 's available . user interface : well i sort of like having the a yellow strip at the bottom with the r_r_ like that . and that 's at the bottom of it . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think maybe we should do it on a b button itself though , because if people are able to change the covers , user interface : which button ? project manager : i do n't know , maybe the on-off button , something , some the menu button , i do n't know , but you know if we 're gon na put our company logo on there and somebody could just get another one . are they all gon na have our company logo on them ? every cover ? industrial designer : yeah , i do n't think we should do that , because that would just be icky . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i think maybe putting it on a button is probably a good idea . user interface : i 'm just really wary of the putting anything on a button . industrial designer : it 'll wear off . user interface : what 's the button marketing : yeah , buttons wear off . user interface : well , w w then what 's the button do , and how do you know that that is what the button does ? i guess . just looking at examples , y you just do n't ever see the logo on a button , it 's always on the actual casing . project manager : right . industrial designer : there 's nothing saying that we have to put the logo on the front of the actual user interface : project manager : on the back ? user interface : but you do n't marketing : but we want it to be seen . project manager : it d visible user interface : but uh , yeah , you do n't see it . project manager : visibility though marketing : we need it to be seen . project manager : 'cause if it was only on the back really the only time you 're gon na see it is when you drop it or when you 're changing the battery . user interface : well , hang on . the other option is , i do n't know if you can see it but it 's like if project manager : i can find it again . user interface : yeah , it 's like the second to last slide . project manager : okay . and yours was called interface concept ? user interface : interface , yeah . project manager : this one ? user interface : yeah . um . project manager : well , for some reason i ca n't get it to just go to that slide directly . user interface : okay , it 's the very right one . you see at the bottom , it 's kind of difficult to see , but you have like a d sort of s division between the bottom like , where the logo is , and if we have the replaceable section , it 's like the top . it does n't necessarily replace the entire top . and so you have that one piece that stays and the rest just sort of clips in . project manager : okay , yes user interface : if c you envisioning it ? and so that stays the same when you have the logo , and then you have this s slip that kinda clips in and that 's the bit that changes . project manager : okay . industrial designer : the only problem is we 're using a latex overlay so it actually would go over top of everything and have holes for the buttons , so i was thinking maybe instead of doing that what we could do is leave a space for where the logo should be . user interface : yeah . yeah , yeah . project manager : like a little cut-out kind of industrial designer : yeah . user interface : right . project manager : okay . user interface : that 's like , you know , a a cellphone it 's like the the screen is always just left opened . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor c : starts no . no . phd d : no . that 's a different thing . professor c : there 's another i do n't know . it starts with a p or something . i forget the word for it , but it 's it 's um typically when you you 're ab r starting around forty for most people , it starts to harden and then it 's just harder for the lens to shift things and th the the symptom is typically that you you have to hold stuff uh uh further away to to see it . phd e : uh - huh . yeah . professor c : in fact , uh m my brother 's a gerontological psychologist and he he uh came up with an an uh a uh body age test which uh gets down to sort of only three measurements that are good enough st statistical predictors of all the rest of it . and one of them is is the distance that you have to hold it at . phd d : give someone a piece of paper and then they oh . phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah . grad a : we 're we 're live by the way , so we 've got a good intro here professor c : oh . yeah . about how old i am . grad a : we can edit that out if you want . phd d : oh , that 's optional . professor c : no , that 's ok . grad a : ok . so . this time the form discussion should be very short , phd d : you know . phd e : mm - hmm . grad a : right ? professor c : it also should be later . because jane uh is not here yet . grad a : good point . professor c : and uh she 'll be most interested in that . uh , she 's probably least involved in the signal - processing stuff so maybe we can just just uh , i do n't think we should go though an elaborate thing , but um uh jose and i were just talking about the uh uh , speech e energy thing , phd e : the @ @ professor c : and i uh phd e : yeah . professor c : we did n't talk about the derivatives . but i think , you know , the the i if i can if you do n't mind my my speaking for you for a bit , um uh . right now , that he 's not really showing any kind of uh distinction , but uh but we discussed a couple of the possible things that uh he can look at . um . and uh one is that uh this is all in log energy and log energy is basically compressing the distances uh between things . um another is that he needs to play with the the different uh uh temporal sizes . he was he he was taking everything over two hundred milliseconds uh , and uh he 's going to vary that number and also look at moving windows , as we discussed before . um and uh and the other thing is that the yeah doing the subtracting off the mean and the variance in the uh and dividing it by the standard deviation in the log domain , may not be the right thing to do . grad a : hi jane ! we just started . phd e : yeah . grad a : could you take that mike there ? phd d : are these the long term means ? like , over the whole i mean , the means of what ? grad a : thanks . professor c : uh b between between phd d : all the frames in the conversation ? or of things that professor c : between neither . it 's uh between the pauses uh for some segment . and so i i his his he 's making the constraint it has to be at least two hundred milliseconds . and so you take that . and then he 's he 's uh measuring at the frame level still at the frame level , of what phd d : right . professor c : and then and then just uh normalizing with that larger amount . um and but one thing he was pointing out is when he he looked at a bunch of examples in log domain , it is actually pretty hard to see the change . and you can sort of see that , because of j of just putting it on the board that if you sort of have log - x plus log - x , that 's the log of x plus the log of two phd d : yeah , maybe it 's not log distributed . phd e : mmm . yeah . professor c : and it 's just , you know , it it diminishes the effect of having two of them . phd d : but you could do like a c d f there instead ? i mean , we do n't know that the distribution here is normally . professor c : yes , right . so so what i was suggesting to him is that phd d : so just some kind of a simple professor c : actually , a pdf . but , you know , uh but , either way . yeah . yeah , eith eith uh b phd d : yeah . phd e : yeah . phd d : something like that where it 's sort of data driven . professor c : yeah , but i think also u i think a good first indicator is when the the the researcher looks at examples of the data and can not see a change in how big the the signal is , when the two speaker phd e : yeah . yeah . professor c : then , that 's a problem right there . so . i think you should at least be able , phd d : oh yeah . professor c : doing casual looking and can get the sense , `` hey , there 's something there . `` and then you can play around with the measures . and when he 's looking in the log domain he 's not really seeing it . phd d : oh yeah . phd e : yeah . professor c : so . and when he 's looking in straight energy he is , so that 's a good place to start . phd e : yeah . professor c : um . so that was that was the discussion we just had . um . the other thing actually we ca had a question for adam in this . uh , when you did the sampling ? uh over the speech segments or s or sampling over the the individual channels in order to do the e uh the amplitude equalization , did you do it over just the entire everything in the mike channels ? phd e : how professor c : you did n't try to find speech ? grad a : no , i just took over the entire s uh entire channel um sampled ten minutes randomly . professor c : right , ok . so then that means that someone who did n't speak very much would be largely represented by silence . and someone who would who would be so the normalization factor probably is i i i is is grad a : yeah , this was quite quick and dirty , and it was just for listening . phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah . grad a : and for listening it seems to work really well . phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah . but that 's grad a : but , it 's not not a good measure . professor c : right . so th phd e : yeah . professor c : ok . so yeah there there there there 's a good chance then given that different people do talk different amounts that there is there there is still a lot more to be gained from gain norm normalization with some sort phd e : yeah . yeah . mmm . grad a : yes , absolutely . professor c : if if we can figure out a way to do it . phd e : yeah . professor c : uh . but we were agreed that in addition to that { comment } uh there should be s stuff related to pitch and harmonics and so forth . phd e : yeah . professor c : so we did n't talk at all about uh the other derivatives , but uh again just just looking at uh , i think uh liz has a very good point , that in fact it would be much more graphic just to show well , actually , you do have some distributions here , uh for these cases . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor c : you have some histograms , um and uh , they do n't look very separate . phd e : yeah . professor c : uh separated . phd e : this is the the first derivate of log of frame energy uh without any kind of normalization . phd d : what professor c : yeah . yeah . yeah . phd d : log energy . sorry . phd e : these the these are the the first experiments uh with comment uh phd d : frame energy . grad a : except that it 's hard to judge this because the they 're not normalized . it 's just number of frames . phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd e : yeah . grad a : but yeah , even so . phd d : w i mean , what i meant is , even if you use linear , you know , raw measures , like raw energy or whatever , professor c : `` number `` phd d : maybe we should n't make any assumptions about the distribution 's shape , and just use you know , use the distribution to model the the mean , or what y you know , rather than the mean take some professor c : yeah . but and so in in these he 's got that . phd d : yeah . professor c : he 's got some pictures . but he does n't he does n't in the he i phd e : yeah . professor c : just in derivatives , but not in the phd d : yeah . oh . professor c : but he d but he does n't does n't phd d : right . so , we do n't know what they look like on the , tsk { comment } for the raw . professor c : but he did n't h have it for the energy . he had it for the derivatives . yeah . phd d : yeah . so . i mean , there might be something there . i do n't know . professor c : yeah . grad a : interesting phd e : here i i professor c : oh that yeah that 's a good q phd e : in no i i i have n't the result professor c : did did you have this sort of thing , for just the just the l r uh the the unnormalized log energy ? ok . yeah . so she she 's right . phd e : but it 's the it 's the the the following . professor c : that 's a phd d : well it might be just good to know what it looks like . professor c : yeah . that 's that 's uh cuz i 'd mentioned scatter plots before but she 's right , phd d : cuz professor c : i mean , even before you get the scatter plots , just looking at a single feature uh , looking at the distribution , is a good thing to do . phd e : yeah . catal - uh combining the different possibilities of uh the parameters . i i i i mean the the the scatter plot combining eh different n two combination . professor c : yeah , but but what she 's saying is , which is right , is le phd e : combination of two , of energy and derivate professor c : i mean , let 's start with the before we get complicated , let 's start with the most basic wh thing , which is we 're arguing that if you take energy uh if you look at the energy , that , when two people are speaking at the same time , usually there 'll be more energy than when one is right ? phd e : yeah . professor c : that 's that sort of hypothesis . phd e : that 's right . professor c : and the first way you 'd look at that , uh s she 's , you know , absolutely right , is that you would just take a look at the distribution of those two things , much as you 've plotted them here , phd e : yeah . professor c : you know , but just but just just uh do it phd e : yeah . professor c : well in this case you have three . you have the silence , and that that 's fine . phd e : yeah . professor c : so , uh with three colors or three shades or whatever , just just look at those distributions . phd e : yeah . professor c : and then , given that as a base , you can see if that gets improved , you know , or or or worsened by the looking at regular energy , looking at log energy , we were just proposing that maybe it 's you know , it 's harder to see with the log energy , um and uh also these different normalizations , does a particular choice of normalization make it better ? phd e : yeah . professor c : but i had maybe made it too complicated by suggesting early on , that you look at scatter plots because that 's looking at a distribution in two dimensions . let 's start off just in one , uh , with this feature . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor c : i think that 's probably the most basic thing , before anything very complicated . phd e : yeah . professor c : um and then we w i think we 're agreed that pitch - related things are are are going to be a a really likely candidate to help . phd d : yeah . phd e : yeah . i agree , yeah . uh - huh . professor c : um but since uh your intuition from looking at some of the data , is that when you looked at the regular energy , that it did in fact usually go up , when two people were talking , that 's eh you know , you should be able to come up with a measure which will match your intuition . phd e : ok . yeah . yeah . yeah , yeah , yeah . professor c : and she 's right , that a that having a having { comment } having this table , with a whole bunch of things , with the standard deviation , the variance and so forth , it 's it 's it 's harder to interpret than just looking at the the same kind of picture you have here . phd e : but uh - huh . yeah . but it it 's curious but uh i f i found it in the in the mixed file , in one channel that eh in several oh e eh several times eh you have an speaker talking alone with a high level of energy professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : eh in the middle eh a zone of overlapping with mmm less energy professor c : mm - hmm . phd e : and eh come with another speaker with high energy professor c : mm - hmm . phd e : and the overlapping zone has eh less energy . professor c : yeah . so there 'll be some cases for which phd e : because there reach very many professor c : but , the qu so so they 'll be phd d : right . professor c : this is i w want to point to visual things , but i mean they there 'll be time there 'll be overlap between the distributions , but the question is , `` if it 's a reasonable feature at all , there 's some separation . `` phd e : yeah . yeah . phd d : especially locally . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : so . locally . phd e : just locally , yeah . grad a : and i was just going to say that that right now we 're just exploring . phd d : and the other thing is i sorry . i grad a : what you would imagine eventually , is that you 'll feed all of these features into some discriminative system . phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah . grad a : and so even if if one of the features does a good job at one type of overlap , another feature might do a good job at another type of overlap . phd e : yeah . yeah . yeah . professor c : right . i mean the the reason i had suggested the scatter f p features is i used to do this a lot , when we had thirteen or fifteen or twenty features to look at . phd e : yeah , this is the professor c : um because something is a good feature uh by itself , you do n't really know how it 'll behave in combination and so it 's nice to have as many as many together at the same time as possible in uh in some reasonable visual form . there 's cool graphic things people have had sometimes to put together three or four in some funny funny way . but it 's true that you should n't do any of that unless you know that the individual ones , at least , have have some uh some hope phd e : yeah . phd d : well , especially for normalizing . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : i mean , it 's really important to pick a normalization that matches the distribution for that feature . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and it may not be the same for all the types of overlaps or the windows may not be the same . e actually , i was wondering , right now you 're taking a all of the speech , from the whole meeting , and you 're trying to find points of overlap , but we do n't really know which speaker is overlapping with which speaker , professor c : right . phd d : right ? so i mean another way would just be to take the speech from just , say , morgan , and just jane and then just their overlaps , phd e : yeah . phd d : like but by hand , by cheating , and looking at you know , if you can detect something that way , because if we ca n't do it that way , there 's no good way that we 're going to be able to do it . grad a : no prayer . phd d : that you know , there might be something helpful and cleaner about looking at just individuals and then that combination alone . phd e : yeah . phd d : plus , i think it has more elegant e professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : the m the right model will be easier to see that way . so if i do n't know , if you go through and you find adam , cuz he has a lot of overlaps and some other speaker who also has e enough speech phd e : yeah . phd d : and just sort of look at those three cases of adam and the other person and the overlaps , phd e : yeah . phd d : maybe and just look at the distributions , maybe there is a clear pattern phd e : yeah . phd d : but we just ca n't see it because there 's too many combinations of of people that can overlap . phd e : uh - huh . yeah . postdoc b : i had the same intuition last last last week . phd d : so . just seems sort of complex . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : i think it 's to start with it 's s your your idea of simplifying , starting with something that you can see eh you know without the extra layers of phd d : right . cuz if energy does n't matter there , like i do n't think this is true , but what if phd e : to study individual ? postdoc b : sorry , what ? phd e : to study individual ? postdoc b : well , you you you do n't have to study everybody individually phd d : well , to study the simplest case to get rid of extra phd e : the the the but consider postdoc b : but just simple case and the one that has the lot of data associated with it . phd d : right . cuz what if it 's the case and i do n't think this is true grad a : that was a great overlap by the way . phd d : what if it 's the case that when two people overlap they equate their you know , there 's a conservation of energy and everybody both people talk more softly ? i do n't think this happens at all . postdoc b : or or what if what if the equipment what if the equipment adjusts somehow , phd d : or they get louder . postdoc b : there 's some equalizing in there ? phd d : yeah or professor c : uh , no we do n't have that . phd d : i mean . grad a : well , but but i think that 's what i was saying about different types of overlap . postdoc b : saturation . phd d : there are there are different types , and within those types , like as jose was saying , that sounded like a backchannel overlap , meaning the kind that 's a friendly encouragement , like `` mm - hmm . `` , `` great ! `` , `` yeah ! `` phd e : yeah . phd d : and it does n't take you do n't take the floor . um , but , some of those , as you showed , i think can be discriminated by the duration of the overlap . phd e : yeah . phd d : so . it actually the s new student , don , who um adam has met , and he was at one of our meetings he 's getting his feet wet and then he 'll be starting again in mid - january . he 's interested in trying to distinguish the types of overlap . i do n't know if he 's talked with you yet . but in sort of honing in on these different types phd e : yeah . i do n't consi now i do n't consider that possibility . phd d : and so maybe phd e : this is a s a general studio of the overlapping we 're studying the i professor c : yeah . well i i i i would s actually still recommend that he do the overall thing phd d : so it might be something that we can help by categorizing some of them and then , you know , look at that . professor c : because it would be the quickest thing for him to do . he could you see , he already has all his stuff in place , phd d : yeah . professor c : he has the histogram mechanism , he has the stuff that subtracts out and all he has to do is change it uh uh from from log to plain energy and plot the histogram and look at it . and then he should go on and do the other stuff bec but but this will phd d : yeah . yeah , no . i did n't mean that that for you to do that , but i was thinking if if don and i are trying to get categories professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd d : and we label some data for you , and we say this is what we think is going so you do n't have to worry about it . and here 's the three types of overlaps . phd e : yeah . phd d : and we 'll we 'll do the labelling for you . phd e : yeah . professor c : hm - hmm . phd e : consider different class of overlap ? phd d : yeah , that we would be working on anyway . phd e : if there 's time . phd d : then maybe you can try some different things for those three cases , and see if that helps , or phd e : yeah . yeah . this is the thing i i comment with you before , that uh we have a great variation of th situation of overlapping . professor c : mm - hmm . phd e : and the behavior for energy is , uh log energy , is not uh the same all the time . phd d : mm - hmm . phd e : and professor c : but i guess i was just saying that that right now uh from the means that you gave , i do n't have any sense of whether even , you know , there are any significant number of cases for which there is distinct and i would imagine there should be some you know , there should be the distributions should be somewhat separated . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor c : uh and i i would still guess that if they are not separated at all , that there 's some there 's there 's most likely something wrong in the way that we 're measuring it . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor c : um , but um for instance , i mean i would n't expect that it was very common overall , that when two people were talking at the same time , that it would that it really was lower , phd e : yeah . professor c : although sometimes , as you say , it would . phd e : yeah . professor c : so . so . phd d : yeah , no , that was that was a jok phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd d : or a sort of , a case where where you would never know that unless you actually go and look at two individuals . professor c : i mean . no . it could it probably does happen sometimes . phd e : yeah . grad a : right . professor c : yeah . yeah . grad a : mind if i turned that light off ? phd e : yeah . grad a : the flickering is annoying me . phd d : it might the case , though , that the significant energy , just as jose was saying , comes in the non - backchannel cases . because in back most people when they 're talking do n't change their own energy when they get a backchannel , cuz they 're not really predicting the backchannel . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and sometimes it 's a nod and sometimes it 's an `` mm - hmm `` . phd e : yeah . phd d : and the `` mm - hmm `` is really usually very low energy . phd e : yeah . phd d : so maybe those do n't actually have much difference in energy . but all the other cases might . professor c : e e and and again what they what difference there was would kind of be lost in taking the log , phd d : and the backchannels are sort of easy to spot s in terms of their words or i mean , just listen to it . phd e : yeah . professor c : so , as well . phd d : well , it would be lost no matter what you do . phd e : but yeah . phd d : it just professor c : mmm , no , if it 's if i if it 's well , it wo n't be as big . phd d : i mean , even if you take the log , you can your model just has a more sensitive measures . phd e : yeah . grad a : sure , but tone might be very yeah , you 're `` mm - hmm `` tone is going to be very different . phd d : yeah . right . right . grad a : you could imagine doing specialized ones for different types of backchannels , if you could if you had a good model for it . your `` mm - hmm `` detector . professor c : if if you 're a i guess my point is , if you 're doing essentially a linear separation , taking the log first does in fact make it harder to separate . grad a : right . professor c : so it 's so , uh if you i i so i if there if there close to things it does phd e : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor c : it 's a nonlinear operation that does in fact change the distinction . if you 're doing a non if you 're doing some fancy thing then then yeah . and right now we 're essentially doing this linear thing by looking across here and and saying we 're going to cut it here . um and that that 's the indicator that we 're getting . but anyway , yeah , we 're not disagreeing on any of this , we should look at it more uh more finely , but uh uh i think that this often happens , you do fairly complicated things , and then you stand back from them and you realize that you have n't done something simple . so uh , if you generated something like that just for the energy and see , and then , a a a as as liz says , when they g have uh uh smaller um , more coherent groups to look at , that would be another interesting thing later . phd e : uh - huh . professor c : and then that should give us some indication between those , should give us some indication of whether there 's anything to be achieved f from energy at all . phd e : uh - huh . professor c : and then you can move on to the uh uh more pitch related stuff . phd e : mm - hmm . i i i think this is a good idea . postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd e : not consider the log energy . professor c : yeah . but then the have you started looking at the pitch related stuff at all , or ? pitch related ? phd e : the ? professor c : harmonicity and so on ? phd e : i i 'm preparing the the program but i do n't i do n't begin because eh i saw your email professor c : preparing to yeah . phd e : and i agree with you it 's better to i suppose it 's better to to consider the the energy this kind of parameter bef professor c : yeah . oh , that 's not what i meant . no , no . i i i i well , we certainly should see this but i i i i think that the harm i certainly was n't saying this was better than the harmonicity and pitch related things i was just saying phd e : i i go on with the with the pitch , professor c : yeah . phd e : aha ! ok . professor c : yeah , i was just saying phd e : i i i i understood uh that eh i i had to finish by the moment with the and and concentrate my my energy in that problem . professor c : ok . ok . ok . but i think , like , all these derivatives and second derivatives and all these other very fancy things , i think i would just sort of look at the energy and then get into the harmonicity as as a suggestion . phd e : ok . i go on with the pitch . professor c : uh ok . so maybe uh since w we 're trying to uh compress the meeting , um , i know adam had some form stuff he wanted to talk about and did you have some ? postdoc b : i wanted to ask just s something on the end of this top topic . so , when i presented my results about the uh distribution of overlaps and the speakers and the profiles of the speakers , at the bottom of that i did have a proposal , phd e : uh - huh . postdoc b : and i had plan to go through with it , of of co coding the types of overlaps that people were involved in s just with reference to speaker style so , you know , with reference and you know i said that on my in my summary , phd d : that 'd be great . postdoc b : that you know so it 's like people may have different amounts of being overlapped with or overlapping phd d : yeah , i remem right . postdoc b : but that in itself is not informative without knowing what types of overlaps they 're involved in so i was planning to do a taxonomy of types overlaps with reference to that . phd d : that would be great . postdoc b : so , but it you know it 's like it sounds like you also have uh something in that direction . phd d : that would be really great . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : is is it phd d : we have nothing you know , basically , we got his environment set up . he 's he 's a double - e { comment } you know . so . it 's mostly that , if we had to label it ourselves , we we would or we 'd have to , to get started , but if it it would be much better if you can do it . you 'd be much better { comment } at doing it also because you know , i i 'm not i do n't have a good feel for how they should be sorted out , postdoc b : interesting . phd d : and i really did n't wan na go into that if i did n't have to . so if if you 're w willing to do that or or grad a : it would be interesting , though , to talk , maybe not at the meeting , but at some other time about what are the classes . postdoc b : well maybe we can ok . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : i think that 's a research effort in and of itself , phd e : yeah . grad a : yeah , it would be interesting . phd d : because you can read the literature , but i do n't know how it 'll turn out phd e : yeah . phd d : and , you know , it 's always an interesting question . postdoc b : it seems like we also s with reference to a purpose , too , that we we 'd want to have them coded . phd e : i would think it 's interesting , yeah . yeah . phd d : that 'd be great . phd e : yeah . phd d : that 'd be really great . postdoc b : i can do that . phd d : and we 'd still have some funding for this project , like probably , if we had to hire some like an undergrad , because uh don is being covered half time on something else postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : i mean , he we 're not paying him the full ra - ship for all the time . so . um if we got it to where we wanted we needed someone to do that i do n't think there 's really enough data where where postdoc b : mm - hmm . yeah , i see this as a prototype , to use the only the the already transcribed meeting as just a prototype . phd e : yeah . phd d : yeah . phd e : i i think a a another parameter we c we we can consider is eh the duration . phd d : but grad a : mm - hmm . phd e : another e e m besides eh the the class of overlap , the duration . because is possible eh some s s um eh some classes eh has eh a type of a duration , eh , a duration very short uh when we have we have overlapping with speech . postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah , definitely . postdoc b : yeah , maybe it may be correlated . mm - hmm . phd e : is possible to have . and it 's interesting , i think , to consider the the window of normalization , normalization window . eh because eh if we have a type of , a kind of eh overlap , eh backchannel overlap , with a short duration , is possible eh to normali i i that if we normalize eh with eh eh consider only the the eh window eh by the left eh ri eh side on the right side overlapping with a a very eh oh a small window eh the if the fit of normalization is eh mmm bigger eh in that overlapping zone eh very short postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah , that 's true . the window should n't be larger than the backchannel . phd e : i i me i i understand . i mean that you have eh you have a backchannel , eh , eh you have a overlapping zone very short phd d : yeah . phd e : and you consider eh n eh all the channel to normalize this very short eh professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : for example `` mmm mm - hmm hmm `` eh and the energy is not eh height eh i think if you consider all the channel to normalize and the channel is mmm bigger eh eh eh compared with the with the overlapping eh duration , professor c : mm - hmm . phd e : eh the effect is mmm stronger eh that i i mean the the e effect of the normalization eh with the mean and the and the variance eh is different that if you consider only a window compared eh with the n the duration of overlapping . professor c : mm - hmm . you you want it around the overlapping part . phd e : not yeah . professor c : you want it to include something that 's not in overlapping phd e : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : but but uh phd e : yeah . i i do n't know . professor c : yeah . phd e : is s if phd d : well it 's a sliding window , right ? so if you take the the measure in the center of the overlapped piece , you know , there 'd better be some something . professor c : mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . yeah . phd d : but if your window is really huge then yeah you 're right you wo n't even phd e : yeah , this is the this is the the idea , to consider only the the small window near near near the the overlapping zone . phd d : the portion of the { comment } of the backchannel wo n't wo n't effect anything . but you yeah . so . you know , you should n't be more than like you should definitely not be three times as big as your as your backchannel . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : then you 're gon na w have a wash . and hopefully it 's more like on the order of professor c : i 'm not sure that 's necessarily true . phd e : yeah ? postdoc b : it is an empirical question , it seems like . professor c : because because it because um again if you 're just compensating for the gain , phd e : yeah . postdoc b : yeah . professor c : you know , the fact that this this gain thing was crude , and the gain wh if someone is speaking relatively at consistent level , just to to give a an extreme example , all you 're doing is compensating for that . and then you still s and then if you look at the frame with respect to that , it still should should uh change phd d : yeah , it depends how different your normalization is , as you slide your window across . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : i mean . that 's something we do n't know . postdoc b : it 's possible to try it both ways , grad a : well , i mean we 're also talking about a couple of different things . postdoc b : is n't it ? in this small grad a : i mean , one is your analysis window and then the other is any sort of normalization that you 're doing . phd d : yeah i was talking about the n normalization window . grad a : and the and they could be quite different . professor c : right . phd d : yeah . phd e : yeah . professor c : this was sort of where where we were last week . phd d : yeah . that 's true . yeah . professor c : but , anyway we we 'll have to look at some core things . phd d : um . but that 'd be great if if you 're marking those postdoc b : great . phd d : and um . but it is definitely true that we need to have the time marks , phd e : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : and i was assuming that will be inherited because , if you have the words and they 're roughly aligned in time via forced alignment or whatever we end up using , then you know , this student and i would be looking at the time marks postdoc b : yep , i agree . mm - hmm . coming off of the other phd d : and classifying all the frames inside those as whatever labels jane gave phd e : yeah . postdoc b : good . so , it would n't be i was n't planning to label the time marks . phd e : i can give you my transcription file , postdoc b : i was thinking that that would come from the engineering side , phd d : i do n't think you need to . postdoc b : yeah . phd d : yeah . that should be linked to the words which are linked to time somehow , postdoc b : there you go . grad a : well we 're not any time soon going to get a forced alignment . phd d : right ? not now . phd e : yeah . grad a : um if it 's not hand - marked then we 're not going to get the times . phd d : well , it 's something that w well , we we would n't be able to do any work without a forced alignment anyway , so somehow if once he gets going we 're gon na hafta come up with one and yeah . grad a : i mean w i guess we could do a very bad one with broadcast news . postdoc b : good . good . phd d : so whatever you would label would be attached to the words , i think . postdoc b : great ! good , good . mm - hmm . phd e : yeah . professor c : well again for the close mike stuff , we could come up take a s take the switchboard system or something , grad a : that might be good enough . yeah . professor c : and um grad a : it 'd be worth a try . it would be interesting to see what we get . professor c : just , you know , low - pass filter the speech and phd d : cuz there 's there 's a lot of work you ca n't do without that , i mean , how how would you professor c : yeah . phd d : you 'd have to go in and measure every start and stop point next to a word postdoc b : it would be very inefficient . phd d : is y if you 're interested in anything to do with words . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : so . anyway so that 'd be great . postdoc b : good . ok . phd e : yeah . professor c : there 's something we should talk about later but maybe not just now . but , uh , should talk about our options as far as the uh uh transcription grad a : yep , if ibm does n't professor c : but . well , w but we 'll do that later . postdoc b : ok . good . phd d : do we hafta turn postdoc b : yeah . let 's do that later . phd d : are we supposed to keep recording here ? grad a : yeah right . postdoc b : yeah . professor c : we 'll talk about it later . postdoc b : yeah . professor c : so uh uh `` forms `` . grad a : forms next iteration of forms . professor c : you had something on forms . grad a : oops . postdoc b : oh ! oh good , ok . professor c : um . oh . postdoc b : how so it 's two pages per person ? grad a : nope . one 's a digit form , one 's a speaker form . so one is a one time only speaker form and the other is the digits . postdoc b : oh , i see . phd e : oh it 's the same . oh no no . is is new is ok . grad a : so do n't fill these out . postdoc b : alright . grad a : this is just the suggestion for uh what the new forms would look like . so , they incorporate the changes that we talked about . postdoc b : date and time . uh why did you switch the order of the date and time fields ? this is rather a low - level , but grad a : on which one ? postdoc b : on on the new one , time comes first and then date , but i thought grad a : oh you mean on the digit form ? postdoc b : this is this is rather a low level question , but but it used used to be date came first . grad a : uh , because the user fills out the first three fields and i fill out the rest . postdoc b : oh i see . grad a : so it was intentional . postdoc b : well , how would the how would the user know the time if they did n't know the date ? grad a : it 's an interesting observation , but it was intentional . because the date is when you actually read the digits and the time and , excuse me , the time is when you actually read the digits , but i 'm filling out the date beforehand . if you look at the form in front of you ? that you 're going to fill out when you read the digits ? you 'll see i 've already filled in the date but not the time . postdoc b : yeah . i always assumed so the time is supposed to be pretty exact , because i 've just been taking beginning time time of the meeting . phd d : yeah , me too . grad a : yeah , i 've noticed that in the forms . phd e : yeah , i yeah . grad a : the the reason i put the time in , is so that the person who 's extracting the digits , meaning me , will know where to look in the meeting , to try to find the digits . phd e : me too . oh ! postdoc b : oh dear . we 've been we 've been messing up your forms . phd e : but i am put i am putting the beginning of the meeting . grad a : i know . phd d : so you should call it , like , `` digits start time `` . or . grad a : and i have n't said anything . yep . phd e : in on there . professor c : why what what were you putting in ? postdoc b : oh , well , i was saying if we started the meeting at two thirty , phd e : yeah . postdoc b : i 'd put two thirty , and i guess d e everyone was putting two thirty , phd e : yeah . grad a : no , it 's about fifty fifty . postdoc b : and i did n't realize there was `` uh oh i 'm about to read this and i should `` grad a : actually it 's about one third each . about one third of them are blank , about one third of them are when the digits are read , and about one third of them are when the meeting starts . so . postdoc b : this would be a radical suggestion but grad a : i could put instructions ? nah . postdoc b : ei - either that or maybe you could maybe write down when people start reading digits on that particular session . phd e : yeah . grad a : but if i 'm not at the meeting , i ca n't do that . postdoc b : i know , ok . that 's a good point . professor c : yeah , he 's been setting stuff up and going away . so . postdoc b : i see . good point good point . professor c : for some reason he does n't want to sit through every meeting that 's grad a : yep , but that is the reason name , email and time are where they are . postdoc b : oh , ok . alright . professor c : yeah . postdoc b : i rest my grad a : and then the others are later on . professor c : uh - huh . postdoc b : ok . w phd e : and the seat is this number ? grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc b : seat and session . phd d : `` for official use only `` that 's well , he 's very professional . phd e : `` use only `` postdoc b : actually you could well that does raise another question , which is why is the `` professional use only `` line not higher ? why does n't it come in at the point of date and seat ? oh . because we 're filling in other things . grad a : what ? professor c : what ? postdoc b : well , because if y your your professional use , you 're gon na already have the date , and the s grad a : what which form are you talking about ? postdoc b : well i 'm comparing the new one with the old one . this is the digit form . grad a : oh you 're talking about the digit form . professor c : digit . digit form . phd e : yeah . grad a : the digit form does n't the digit postdoc b : oh ! i was n't supposed to phd e : yeah . grad a : no , that 's alright . postdoc b : sorry . sorry . grad a : the digit form does n't have a `` for official use only `` line . it just has a line , which is what you 're supposed to read . postdoc b : that uh ok . grad a : so on the digits form , everything above the line is a fill - in form postdoc b : sorry about that . yeah . grad a : and everything below the line is digits that the user reads . postdoc b : yeah . ok . alright s but i did n't mean to derail our discussion here , so you really wanted to start with this other form . grad a : no , either way is fine i just you just started talking about something , and i did n't know which form you were referring to . postdoc b : alright yeah , i was comparing so th this is so i was looking at the change first . so it 's like we started with this and now we 've got a new version of it wi with reference to this . so the digit form , we had one already . now the f the fields are slightly different . professor c : so the main thing that the person fills out um is the name and email and time ? phd e : yeah . grad a : right . professor c : you do the rest ? grad a : yep . just as uh as i have for all the others . postdoc b : what and there 's an addition of the native language , which is a bit redundant . professor c : right . postdoc b : this one has native language and this one does too . grad a : that 's because the one , the digit form that has native language is the old form not the new form . postdoc b : oh ! thank you . thank you , thank you . there we go . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : oh , yeah . i 'll catch up here . ok , i see . professor c : `` south midland , north midland `` postdoc b : that 's the old and that 's the new . grad a : yeah this was the problem with these categories , i i picked those categories from timit . i do n't know what those are . phd d : actually , the only way i know is from working with the database and having to figure it out . phd e : what grad a : with timit , yeah ? phd e : uh - huh . grad a : so , i was gon na ask phd e : what i professor c : so is south midland like kansas ? grad a : wh w i mean . professor c : and north midland like like uh illinois , or ? phd d : well yeah . nor - um phd e : yeah . grad a : so so what accent are we speaking ? western ? professor c : by definition ? phd e : and for simple for for me ? professor c : well , phd d : probably western , yeah . phd e : is mean my native language spanish spanish ? eh the original is the center of spain and the beca grad a : yeah , i mean you could call it whatever you want . for the foreign language we could n't classify every single one . so i just left it blank and you can put whatever you want . phd e : because is different , the span - uh the spanish language from the the north of spain , of the south , of the west and the grad a : sure . so i 'm not sure what to do about the region field for english variety . you know , when i wrote i was writing those down , i was thinking , `` you know , these are great if you 're a linguist `` . phd e : yeah . grad a : but i do n't know how to i do n't know how to i do n't know how to categorize them . postdoc b : yeah . phd d : actually even if you t postdoc b : yeah . professor c : if you 're if e if y phd d : this was n't developed by th these regions were n't professor c : if you 're a ti or mit from nineteen eighty - five . grad a : yeah so i guess my only question was if if you were a south midland speaking region , person ? would you know it ? professor c : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : is that what you would call yourself ? phd d : i do n't know . grad a : yeah . professor c : you know , i think if you 're talking if you 're thinking in terms of places , as opposed to names different peop names people have given to different ways of talking , i would think north midwest , and south midwest would be more common than saying midland , right , i mean , i i went to s phd d : yeah . now the usage maybe we can give them a li like a little map ? with the regions and they just no , i 'm serious . postdoc b : no , that 's not bad . yeah . phd d : because it takes less time , and it 's sort of cute phd e : i at this in that side in that side of the the paper . phd d : there 's no figure . professor c : well . phd d : well just a little you know , it does n't have all the detail , but you sort of professor c : but what if you moved five times and and uh postdoc b : well , i was thinking you could have ma multiple ones and then the amount of time phd d : no , but you 're categorized . that 's the same postdoc b : so , roughly . so . you could say , you know `` ten years on the east coast , five years on the west coast `` or something or other . grad a : well , we i think we do n't want to get that level of detail at this form . i think that 's alright if we want to follow up . but . professor c : i guess we do n't really know . phd d : i mean i as i said , i do n't think there 's a huge benefit to this region thing . it it gets the problem is that for some things it 's really clear and usually listening to { comment } it you can tell right away if it 's a new york or boston accent , but new york and boston are two well , i guess they have the nyc , but new england has a bunch of very different dialects and postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : and so does um s so do other places . grad a : yeah , so i picked these regions cuz we had talked about timit , and those are right from timit . phd d : right . and so these would be satisfying like a speech research community if we released the database , but as to whether subjects know where they 're from , i 'm not sure because um i know that they had to fill this out for switchboard . this is i almost exactly the same as switchboard regions postdoc b : oh . ok . phd d : or very close . yeah . um and i do n't know how they filled that out . but th if midland yeah , midland is the one that 's difficult i guess . postdoc b : i think a lot of people yeah . phd d : also northwest you 've got oreg - washington and oregon now which uh y people do n't know if it 's western or northern . grad a : yeah , i certainly do n't . i mean , i was saying i do n't even know what i speak . phd d : it 's like northwest grad a : am i speaking am i speaking western ? professor c : oh , what is northern ? well and what and what 's northern ? phd d : i think originally it was north northwest grad a : northwest ? phd d : but phd e : yeah . grad a : yeah , so this is a real problem . i do n't know what to do about it . phd d : yeah . postdoc b : i would n't know how to characterize mine either . and and so i would think i would say , i 've i 've got a mix of california and ohio . grad a : i c i think at the first level , for example , we speak the same . phd d : i do n't know . grad a : our our dialects or whatever you region are the same . postdoc b : uh - huh . grad a : but i do n't know what it is . so . phd d : well , you have a like techno - speak accent i think . grad a : a techno - speak accent ? phd d : yeah , you know ? phd e : a techno grad a : a a geek region ? phd d : well it 's i mean i you can sort of identify postdoc b : geek region . phd d : it f it 's it 's not not that that 's phd e : is different . is different . phd d : but but maybe that maybe we could leave this and see what people see what people choose and then um let them just fill in if they do n't i mean i do n't know what else we can do , cuz that 's north midland . postdoc b : i 'm wondering about a question like , `` where are you from mostly ? `` phd e : yeah . professor c : but i i 'm s i 'm now that you mentioned it though , i am really am confused by `` northern `` . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : i agree . i agree . professor c : i really am . postdoc b : i agree . professor c : i mean , if if you 're in new england , that 's north . phd e : yeah . professor c : if you 're i if you 're postdoc b : scandinavian , the minnesota area 's north . professor c : uh yeah . that 's but that 's also north midland , phd e : yeah . postdoc b : oh , @ @ . ok . professor c : right ? and and and oregon and and oregon and washington are are western , but they 're also northern . phd d : yeah . of course , that 's very different from , like , michigan , or postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , idaho ? phd d : well there are hardly any subjects from idaho . professor c : montana ? grad a : no problem . postdoc b : just rule them out . phd d : there 's only a few people in idaho . grad a : there are hardly any subjects from `` beep `` phd e : yeah . phd d : sorry . professor c : maybe maybe we maybe we should put a little map and say `` put an x on where you 're from `` , phd d : no , that 's phd e : and is in those grad a : yeah really . phd d : we could ask where they 're from . phd e : and if you put postdoc b : it 'd be pretty simple , yeah . phd d : yeah . but - we went back to that . phd e : yeah . if you put eh the state ? grad a : well well we sort of postdoc b : where are you from mostly ? phd d : we we went we went around this and then a lot of people ended up saying that it phd e : uh - huh . mm - hmm . phd d : you know . grad a : well , i like the idea of asking `` what variety of english do you speak `` as opposed to where you 're from because th if we start asking where we 're from , again you have to start saying , `` well , is that the language you speak or is that just where you 're from ? `` phd e : yeah . phd d : right . right . phd e : yeah . professor c : let 's mm - hmm . phd d : i mean it gives us good information on where they 're from , but that does n't { comment } tell us anything grad a : and professor c : we could always ask them if they 're from phd d : well , enough about their grad a : i mean . so so i would say germany phd d : like grad a : you know am i speaking with german accent i do n't think so . postdoc b : well , see , i 'm thinking `` where are you from mostly `` phd d : right . grad a : oh , ok yeah . postdoc b : because , you know , then you have some some kind of subjective amount of time factored into it . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad a : yep . yeah , i guess i could try to put squeeze in a little map . phd e : yeah . grad a : i mean there 's not a lot of r of room professor c : i 'd say , uh , `` boston , new york city , the south and regular `` . postdoc b : well phd d : oh , i do n't know . grad a : i think of those , northern is the only one that i do n't even know what they 're meaning . postdoc b : yeah . yeah . phd e : and and um and usually here people here know what is their kind of mmm lang english language ? professor c : that 's a joke . that 's phd d : so let 's make it up . s i mean , who cares . right ? we can make up our own so we can say `` northwest `` , `` rest of west `` or something . you know . `` west `` and i mean . grad a : ye i do n't think the northwest people speak any differently than i do . phd d : it does n't even yeah , exactly . that 's not really a region . postdoc b : i professor c : `` do you come from the louisiana purchase ? `` phd d : so we could take out `` north `` `` northern `` . grad a : that that 's exactly what we 're arguing about . phd e : eh here is easy for people to know ? phd d : that 's yeah , w it 's in it 's it 's harder in america anywhere else , basically . grad a : we do n't know . phd e : because you have grad a : i mean some of them are very obvious . if you if you talk to someone speaking with southern drawl , you know . phd e : n m yeah . postdoc b : yeah , or boston . grad a : or boston , yeah . postdoc b : i ca n't do it , but phd e : or boston ? professor c : yeah . phd d : and those people , if you ask them to self - identify their accent they know . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : yeah , they do . phd d : they know very well . postdoc b : yeah i agree i agree . i agree . phd d : they know they do n't speak the same as the grad a : but is boston new england ? postdoc b : and they 're proud of it . yeah . phd d : yeah , exactly . postdoc b : it 's identity thing . phd d : and they 're glad to tell you . phd e : style . phd d : well . depends who you ask , i suppose . grad a : w i guess that 's the problem with these categories . phd d : but that 's why they have new york city but postdoc b : well , we ca well , why ca n't we just say characterize something like char characterize your accent professor c : well , boston 's @ @ , too . phd d : or `` characterize your accent if you can . `` postdoc b : and and so i would say , `` i do n't know `` . phd d : yeah . right , which probably means you have a very postdoc b : but someone from boston with a really strong coloration would know . and so would an r - less maine or something , phd d : and that 's actually good . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : yeah . phd d : i was i was thinking of something along that line postdoc b : good . phd d : because if you do n't know , then , you know , ruling out the fact that you 're totally inept or something , if somebody does n't know , it probably means their accent is n't very strong compared to the sort of midwest standard . professor c : well , i mean , it was n't that long ago that we had somebody here who was from texas who was absolutely sure that he did n't have any accent left . and and had he had a pretty noticeable drawl . grad a : ok , so . i propose , take out northern add , do n't know . postdoc b : oh . yeah . i i would say more more sweepingly , `` how would you characterize your accent ? `` phd e : yeah . grad a : so you want to change the instructions also not just say region ? postdoc b : well , i think this discussion has made me think that 's s something to consider . grad a : i do n't know if i if i read this form , i think they 're going to ask { comment } it they 're going to answer the same way if you say , `` what 's variety of english do you speak ? region . `` as if you say `` what variety of region region { comment } do you speak ? please characterize your accent ? `` they 're going to answer the same way . postdoc b : i guess well , i was not sure that i so . i was suggesting not having the options , just having them grad a : oh , i see . well what we talked about with that is is so that they would understand the granularity . postdoc b : yes , but if , as liz is suggesting , people who have strong accents know that they do grad a : i mean that 's what i had before , and you told me to list the regions to list them . postdoc b : and are well , i know . professor c : right . phd d : each each one has pros and cons professor c : right . postdoc b : that 's true . professor c : right . phd d : i mean we we professor c : yeah last week last week i was sort of r arguing for having it wide open , but then everybody said `` oh , no , but then it will be hard to interpret because some people will say cincinnati and some will say ohio `` . grad a : i mean i had it wide open last week and and you said timit . postdoc b : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd d : what if we put in both ? grad a : that 's what the `` other `` is for . phd d : and would people no , i mean what if we put in both ways of asking them ? so . one is region and the another one is `` if you had to characterize yourself your accent , what would you say ? `` grad a : wo n't they answer the same thing ? phd d : well they might only answer only one of the questions but if postdoc b : yeah that 's fine . phd d : you know . postdoc b : they might say `` other `` for region because they do n't know what category to use phd d : actually postdoc b : but they might have something phd d : right . postdoc b : because it is easier to have it open ended . phd d : it just and we we might learn from what they say , as to which one 's a better { comment } way to ask it . professor c : w this is just a small thing phd d : but i cuz i really do n't know . professor c : but um it says `` variety `` and then it gives things that e have american as one of the choices . but then it says `` region `` , but region actually just applies to uh , us , grad a : right . professor c : right ? grad a : i mean that 's why i put the `` other `` in . postdoc b : well , we thought about it . professor c : ah , ok . postdoc b : yeah , ok . we just we sort of thought , `` yes , `` y y i mean at the last meeting , my recollection was that we felt people would have uh less that that there are so many types and varieties of these other languages and we are not going to have that many subjects from these different language groups and that it 's a huge waste of of space . grad a : so i mean , i i mean the way i had it last time was region was blank , postdoc b : that 's what i thought . grad a : it just said region colon . postdoc b : yeah . grad a : and and i think that that 's the best way to do it , postdoc b : yeah . grad a : because because of the problems we 're talking about but what we said last week , was no , put in a list , so i put in a list . so should we go back to phd d : maybe we can make the list a little smaller . grad a : well , certainly dropping `` northern `` i think is right , because none of us know what that is . phd d : cuz , i mean and keeping `` other `` , and then maybe this north midland , we call it `` north midwest `` . south midwest , or just professor c : yes i i i think so . yeah . phd d : south midwest . does that make sense ? phd e : south midwest ? phd d : that would help me professor c : u unless you 're from midland , kansas . phd d : yeah . cuz midland professor c : but . yeah . phd d : i do n't know where midland is professor c : there 's a or midland midland grad a : is `` midwest `` one word ? professor c : is it midland midland midland , texas or midland , kansas ? i forget . phd d : y yeah , one w professor c : but there 's a town . in in there . i forget what it is @ @ . postdoc b : i do n't think that 's what they mean . professor c : yeah . phd d : yeah . so . kansas would be south midland . right ? professor c : y yeah . phd d : and and would n't yeah . professor c : and colorado , right across the border , would be north midland . phd d : so , th i 'm from kansas , actually . phd e : southern midland . phd d : yeah . grad a : and uh phd d : colora oh , right . and then , the the dropping north , so it would be western . it 's just one big shebang , where , of course , you have huge variation in dialects , grad a : but that 's true of new england too . professor c : but you do in the others , too . so . phd d : but { comment } but so do you grad a : so . i mean only one phd d : yeah . professor c : yeah . phd d : yeah . yeah . grad a : well , i should n't say that . i have no clue . i was going to say the only one that does n't have a huge variety is new york city . but i have no idea whether it does or not . postdoc b : it does seem i mean . i i would think that these categories would be more w would be easier for an an analyst to put in rather than the subject himself . grad a : i think that that was what happened with timit , was that it was an analyst . professor c : wait a minute . where does where does d w where where 's where does uh new new york west of west of uh new york city and pennsylvania uh and uh phd d : yeah , i do n't know how it came from . grad a : new england phd d : so . that 's new england i think . professor c : n no , it 's not . phd d : yeah . grad a : oh , no . postdoc b : i sort of thought they were part of the one of the midlands . professor c : oh no . no , no . no . pennsylvania is not grad a : `` other `` , it goes under `` other `` , definitely under `` other `` . phd d : well , you know , pennsylvania has a pretty strong dialect and it 's totally different than professor c : pennsylvania yeah . pennsylvania is not new england . and uh new jersey is not new england and maryland is not new england and none of those are the south . grad a : ok . so . another suggestion . rather than have circle fill in forms , say `` region , open paren , e g southern comma western comma close paren colon . `` postdoc b : yeah . ok . fine by me , fine by me . professor c : that 's good . i like that . phd d : sure ! phd e : yeah . postdoc b : yeah . professor c : we 're all sufficiently tired of this that we 're agreeing with you . phd d : let 's just and we 'll see what we get . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : be easier on the subjects . i think that 's fine . no . i think i like that . i like that . professor c : you like it ? postdoc b : yeah , i do . grad a : actually , maybe we do one non - english one as well . professor c : good . grad a : southern , cockney ? phd d : yeah , and phd e : yeah . grad a : is that a real accent ? postdoc b : sure , yeah ! grad a : how do you spell it ? phd e : yeah . postdoc b : i think that 's fine . professor c : cockney ? co yeah . phd d : you could say liverpool . professor c : liverpuddlian . postdoc b : yeah . alright . phd d : actually , liverpool does n't l yeah . it 's i 'm s i ha postdoc b : well . well . i mean , pure grad a : ok , we 'll do it that way . actually , i like that a lot . because that get 's at both of the things we were trying to do , the granularity , and the person can just self - assess and we do n't have to argue about what these regions are . postdoc b : that 's right . and it 's easy on the subjects . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : now i have one suggestion on the next section . phd e : mm - hmm . grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc b : so you have native language , you have region , and then you have time spent in english speaking country . now , i wonder if it might be useful to have another open field saying `` which one parenthesis s { comment } paren closed parenthesis `` . cuz if they spent time in in britain and america it does n't have to be ex all at all exact , just in the same open field format that you have . grad a : yep , just which one . i think that 's fine . postdoc b : mm - hmm . with a with an s phd e : mm - hmm . postdoc b : `` which one sss , { comment } optional s . yeah . professor c : we uh we done ? postdoc b : yeah , that 's good . professor c : ok . um s e any any other uh open mike topics or should we go right to the digits ? grad a : um , did you guys get my email on the multitrans ? that ok . postdoc b : is n't that wonderful ! yeah . grad a : yeah . so . so . i i have a version also which actually displays all the channels . postdoc b : excellent ! thank you ! phd d : it 's really great . grad a : but it 's hideously slow . postdoc b : so you this is n dan 's patches , dan ellis 's patches . grad a : the what the ones i applied , that you can actually do are dan 's , because it does n't slow it down . postdoc b : fantastic ! grad a : just uses a lot of memory . phd d : so when you say `` slow `` , does that mean to grad a : no , the the one that 's installed is fine . it 's not slow at all . i wrote another version . which , instead of having the one pane with the one view , it has multiple panes with the views . phd e : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : but the problem with it is the drawing of those waveforms is so slow that every time you do anything it just crawls . postdoc b : mm - hmm . grad a : it 's really bad . phd d : it 's so , it it 's the redrawing of the w postdoc b : that 's a consideration . grad a : mm - hmm . phd d : oh uh - huh , w as you move . grad a : as you play , as you move , as you scroll . just about anything , and it it was so slow it was not usable . so that 's why i did n't install it and did n't pursue it . postdoc b : and this 'll be a hav having the multiwave will be a big help cuz in terms of like disentangling overlaps and things , that 'll be a big help . phd d : oh yeah . grad a : so . i think that the one dan has is usable enough . phd d : yeah . grad a : it does n't display the others . it displays just the mixed signal . postdoc b : mm - hmm . grad a : but you can listen to any of them . postdoc b : that 's excellent . he also has version control which is another nice phd e : yeah . postdoc b : e so you e the patches that you grad a : no , he suggested that , but he did n't it 's not installed . postdoc b : oh , i thought it was in one of those patches . grad a : no . no . postdoc b : oh ok . well . alright . phd d : so is there any hope for actually displaying the wave form ? grad a : um , not if we 're going to use tcl - tk at least not if we 're going to use snack . i mean you would have to do something ourselves . postdoc b : well , or use the one that crawls . phd d : ok . well , i 'm i probably would be trying to use the { comment } whatever 's there . and it 's useful to have the grad a : why do n't we we see how dan 's works and if it if we really need the display phd d : yeah . i mean . i wonder i 'm just wondering if we can display things other than the wave form . so . suppose we have a feature a feature stream . and it 's just , you know , a a uni - dimensional feature , varying in time . phd e : yeah . phd d : and we want to plot that , instead of the whole wave form . grad a : i mean . phd d : that might be faster . phd e : yeah . phd d : right ? grad a : we we could do that but that would mean changing the code . phd e : yeah . grad a : i mean this is n't a program we wrote . professor c : yeah . grad a : this is a program that we got from someone else , and we 've done patches on . postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : ok . well , i 'll talk to you about it and we can see professor c : cou - i e i mean , y phd e : yeah . grad a : yeah . phd d : but it 's definitely great to have the other one . professor c : if there was some is there some way to have someone write patches in something faster and and link it in , or something ? phd d : that 's grad a : not easily . professor c : or is that grad a : i mean y yes we could do that . you could you can write widgets in c . and try to do it that way but i just do n't think it professor c : yeah . grad a : let 's try it with dan 's and if that is n't enough , we can do it otherwise . phd d : right . grad a : i think it is , cuz when i was playing with it , the mixed signal has it all in there . and so it 's really it 's not too bad to find places in the in the stream where things are happening . so i i do n't think it 'll be bad . postdoc b : and it 's also also the case that that uh this multi - wave thing is proposed to the so . dan proposed it to the transcriber central people , and it 's likely that uh so . and and they responded favorably looks as though it will be incorporated in the future version . they said that the only reason they had n't had the multi the parallel uh stream one before was simply that they had n't had time to do it . and uh so it 's likely that this this may be entered into the ch this central @ @ . phd e : yeah . grad a : and if if professor c : they may well have not had much demand for it . postdoc b : well that 's that 's that 's true , too . professor c : yeah . postdoc b : this is a a useful thing for us . phd d : so . you mean they could they could do it and it would be fast enough if they do it ? phd e : yeah . grad a : depends on how much work they did . postdoc b : oh . no . i just mean i just mean that it 's that that his phd d : or ? postdoc b : so . this one that we now have does have the status of potentially being incorporated l likely being incorporated into the central code . phd d : mm - hmm . ok . postdoc b : now , tha now , if we develop further then , y uh , i do n't grad a : i think if if if one of us sat down and coded it , so that it could be displayed fast enough i 'm sure they would be quite willing to incorporate it . postdoc b : i mean it 's i think it 's a nice feature to have it set that way . mm - hmm . grad a : but it 's not a trivial task . postdoc b : mm - hmm . yeah . i just like the idea of it being something that 's , you know , tied back into the original , so that other people can benefit from it . grad a : yeah . postdoc b : yeah . however . i also understand that you can have widgets that are very useful for their purpose and that you do n't need to always go that w route . yeah . grad a : anyway , shall we do digits ? postdoc b : yeah . professor c : yeah . let 's do digits , uh , and then we 'll turn off the mikes , and then i have one other thing to discuss . phd d : i actually have to leave . so . um . i mean i had to leave at three thirty , postdoc b : uh - oh . phd d : so i can well , i can wait for the digits but i ca n't stay for the discussion grad a : well , you want to go first ? or . phd d : i c i have to make a call . postdoc b : well , should we e should we switch off the g professor c : well , we 'll talk to you about it uh grad a : do you wan na go do digits or do you wan na just skip digits ? phd d : um . no , i can do digits if if but i do n't wan na butt in , or something . grad a : then alright . you go ahead . phd d : but if there 's something on the rest of the i 'm i 'll be around just have to make call before quarter of . so . phd e : mm - hmm . phd d : so i or we can talk about it . grad a : why do n't you read the digits ? professor c : yeah , why do n't you read the digits and then you can go . phd d : ok . alright . oh , this is the new one . grad a : yeah , do n't do n't read the old one . professor c : yeah . phd d : alright . the and the time is . ok . postdoc b : turn it off . but wait till he ok . </s>
<s> what was the discussion with jose ? </s> professor c : in fact , uh m my brother 's a gerontological psychologist and he he uh came up with an an uh a uh body age test which uh gets down to sort of only three measurements that are good enough st statistical predictors of all the rest of it . and one of them is is the distance that you have to hold it at . phd d : give someone a piece of paper and then they oh . phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah . grad a : we 're we 're live by the way , so we 've got a good intro here professor c : oh . yeah . about how old i am . grad a : we can edit that out if you want . phd d : oh , that 's optional . professor c : no , that 's ok . grad a : ok . so . this time the form discussion should be very short , phd d : you know . phd e : mm - hmm . grad a : right ? professor c : it also should be later . because jane uh is not here yet . grad a : good point . professor c : and uh she 'll be most interested in that . uh , she 's probably least involved in the signal - processing stuff so maybe we can just just uh , i do n't think we should go though an elaborate thing , but um uh jose and i were just talking about the uh uh , speech e energy thing , phd e : the @ @ professor c : and i uh phd e : yeah . professor c : we did n't talk about the derivatives . but i think , you know , the the i if i can if you do n't mind my my speaking for you for a bit , um uh . right now , that he 's not really showing any kind of uh distinction , but uh but we discussed a couple of the possible things that uh he can look at . um . and uh one is that uh this is all in log energy and log energy is basically compressing the distances uh between things . um another is that he needs to play with the the different uh uh temporal sizes . he was he he was taking everything over two hundred milliseconds uh , and uh he 's going to vary that number and also look at moving windows , as we discussed before . um and uh and the other thing is that the yeah doing the subtracting off the mean and the variance in the uh and dividing it by the standard deviation in the log domain , may not be the right thing to do . grad a : hi jane ! we just started . phd e : yeah . grad a : could you take that mike there ? phd d : are these the long term means ? like , over the whole i mean , the means of what ? grad a : thanks . professor c : uh b between between phd d : all the frames in the conversation ? or of things that professor c : between neither . it 's uh between the pauses uh for some segment . and so i i his his he 's making the constraint it has to be at least two hundred milliseconds . and so you take that . and then he 's he 's uh measuring at the frame level still at the frame level , of what </s>
<s> what did professor c say about the possible hypothesis ? </s> phd e : yeah . professor c : and then , given that as a base , you can see if that gets improved , you know , or or or worsened by the looking at regular energy , looking at log energy , we were just proposing that maybe it 's you know , it 's harder to see with the log energy , um and uh also these different normalizations , does a particular choice of normalization make it better ? phd e : yeah . professor c : but i had maybe made it too complicated by suggesting early on , that you look at scatter plots because that 's looking at a distribution in two dimensions . let 's start off just in one , uh , with this feature . phd e : yeah . yeah . professor c : i think that 's probably the most basic thing , before anything very complicated . phd e : yeah . professor c : um and then we w i think we 're agreed that pitch - related things are are are going to be a a really likely candidate to help . phd d : yeah . phd e : yeah . i agree , yeah . uh - huh . professor c : um but since uh your intuition from looking at some of the data , is that when you looked at the regular energy , that it did in fact usually go up , when two people were talking , that 's eh you know , you should be able to come up with a measure which will match your intuition . phd e : ok . yeah . yeah . yeah , yeah , yeah . professor c : and she 's right , that a that having a having { comment } having this table , with a whole bunch of things , with the standard deviation , the variance and so forth , it 's it 's it 's harder to interpret than just looking at the the same kind of picture you have here . phd e : but uh - huh . yeah . but it it 's curious but uh i f i found it in the in the mixed file , in one channel that eh in several oh e eh several times eh you have an speaker talking alone with a high level of energy professor c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd e : eh in the middle eh a zone of overlapping with mmm less energy professor c : mm - hmm . phd e : and eh come with another speaker with high energy professor c : mm - hmm . phd e : and the overlapping zone has eh less energy . professor c : yeah . so there 'll be some cases for which phd e : because there reach very many professor c : but , the qu so so they 'll be phd d : right . professor c : this is i w want to point to visual things , but i mean they there 'll be time there 'll be overlap between the distributions , but the question is , `` if it 's a reasonable feature at all , there 's some separation . `` phd e : yeah . yeah . phd d : especially locally . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : so . locally . phd e : just locally , yeah . grad a : and i was just going to say that that right now we 're just exploring . phd d : and the other thing is i sorry . i grad a : what you would imagine eventually , is that you 'll feed all of these features into some discriminative system . phd e : yeah . professor c : yeah . grad a : and so even if if one of the features does a good job at one type of overlap , another feature might do a good job at another type of overlap . phd e : yeah . yeah . yeah . professor c : right . i mean the the reason i had suggested the scatter f p features is i used to do this a lot , when we had thirteen or fifteen or twenty features to look at . phd e : yeah , this is the professor c : um because something is a good feature uh by itself , you do n't really know how it 'll behave in combination and so it 's nice to have as many as many together at the same time as possible in uh in some reasonable visual form . there 's cool graphic things people have had sometimes to put together three or four in some funny funny way . but it 's true that you should n't do any of that unless you know that the individual ones , at least , have have some uh some hope phd e : yeah . phd d : well , especially for normalizing . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : i mean , it 's really important to pick a normalization that matches the distribution for that feature . professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : and it may not be the same for all the types of overlaps or the windows may not be the same . e actually , i was wondering , right now you 're taking a all of the speech , from the whole meeting , and you 're trying to find points of overlap , but we do n't really know which speaker is overlapping with which speaker , professor c : right . phd d : right ? so i mean another way would just be to take the speech from just , say , morgan , and just jane and then just their overlaps , phd e : yeah . phd d : like but by hand , by cheating , and looking at you know , if you can detect something that way , because if we ca n't do it that way , there 's no good way that we 're going to be able to do it . grad a : no prayer . phd d : that you know , there might be something helpful and cleaner about looking at just individuals and then that combination alone . phd e : yeah . phd d : plus , i think it has more elegant e professor c : mm - hmm . phd d : the m the right model will be easier to see that way . so if i do n't know , if you go through and you find adam , cuz he has a lot of overlaps and some other speaker who also has e enough speech phd e : yeah . phd d : and just sort of look at those three cases of adam and the other person and the overlaps , phd e : yeah . phd d : maybe and just look at the distributions , maybe there is a clear pattern phd e : yeah . phd d : but we just ca n't see it because there 's too many combinations of of people that can overlap . phd e : uh - huh . yeah . postdoc b : i had the same intuition last last last week . phd d : so . just seems sort of complex . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : i think it 's to start with it 's s your your idea of simplifying , starting with something that you can see eh you know without the extra layers of phd d : right . cuz if energy does n't matter there , like i do n't think this is true , but what if phd e : to study individual ? </s>
<s> what was to be included in the new form arrangement ? </s> postdoc b : oh ! i was n't supposed to phd e : yeah . grad a : no , that 's alright . postdoc b : sorry . sorry . grad a : the digit form does n't have a `` for official use only `` line . it just has a line , which is what you 're supposed to read . postdoc b : that uh ok . grad a : so on the digits form , everything above the line is a fill - in form postdoc b : sorry about that . yeah . grad a : and everything below the line is digits that the user reads . postdoc b : yeah . ok . alright s but i did n't mean to derail our discussion here , so you really wanted to start with this other form . grad a : no , either way is fine i just you just started talking about something , and i did n't know which form you were referring to . postdoc b : alright yeah , i was comparing so th this is so i was looking at the change first . so it 's like we started with this and now we 've got a new version of it wi with reference to this . so the digit form , we had one already . now the f the fields are slightly different . professor c : so the main thing that the person fills out um is the name and email and time ? phd e : yeah . grad a : right . professor c : you do the rest ? grad a : yep . just as uh as i have for all the others . postdoc b : what and there 's an addition of the native language , which is a bit redundant . professor c : right . postdoc b : this one has native language and this one does too . grad a : that 's because the one , the digit form that has native language is the old form not the new form . postdoc b : oh ! thank you . thank you , thank you . there we go . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : oh , yeah . i 'll catch up here . ok , i see . professor c : `` south midland , north midland `` postdoc b : that 's the old and that 's the new . grad a : yeah this was the problem with these categories , i i picked those categories from timit . i do n't know what those are . phd d : actually , the only way i know is from working with the database and having to figure it out . phd e : what grad a : with timit , yeah ? phd e : uh - huh . grad a : so , i was gon na ask phd e : what i professor c : so is south midland like kansas ? grad a : wh w i mean . professor c : and north midland like like uh illinois , or ? phd d : well yeah . nor - um phd e : yeah . grad a : so so what accent are we speaking ? western ? professor c : by definition ? phd e : and for simple for for me ? professor c : well , phd d : probably western , yeah . phd e : is mean my native language spanish spanish ? eh the original is the center of spain and the beca grad a : yeah , i mean you could call it whatever you want . for the foreign language we could n't classify every single one . so i just left it blank and you can put whatever you want . phd e : because is different , the span - uh the spanish language from the the north of spain , of the south , of the west and the grad a : sure . so i 'm not sure what to do about the region field for english variety . you know , when i wrote i was writing those down , i was thinking , `` you know , these are great if you 're a linguist `` . phd e : yeah . grad a : but i do n't know how to i do n't know how to i do n't know how to categorize them . postdoc b : yeah . phd d : actually even if you t postdoc b : yeah . professor c : if you 're if e if y phd d : this was n't developed by th these regions were n't professor c : if you 're a ti or mit from nineteen eighty - five . grad a : yeah so i guess my only question was if if you were a south midland speaking region , person ? would you know it ? professor c : yeah . phd d : mm - hmm . grad a : is that what you would call yourself ? phd d : i do n't know . grad a : yeah . professor c : you know , i think if you 're talking if you 're thinking in terms of places , as opposed to names different peop names people have given to different ways of talking , i would think north midwest , and south midwest would be more common than saying midland , right , i mean , i i went to s phd d : yeah . now the usage maybe we can give them a li like a little map ? with the regions and they just no , i 'm serious . postdoc b : no , that 's not bad . yeah . phd d : because it takes less time , and it 's sort of cute phd e : i at this in that side in that side of the the paper . phd d : there 's no figure . professor c : well . phd d : well just a little you know , it does n't have all the detail , but you sort of professor c : but what if you moved five times and and uh postdoc b : well , i was thinking you could have ma multiple ones and then the amount of time phd d : no , but you 're categorized . that 's the same postdoc b : so , roughly . so . you could say , you know `` ten years on the east coast , five years on the west coast `` or something or other . grad a : well , we i think we do n't want to get that level of detail at this form . i think that 's alright if we want to follow up . but . professor c : i guess we do n't really know . phd d : i mean i as i said , i do n't think there 's a huge benefit to this region thing . it it gets the problem is that for some things it 's really clear and usually listening to { comment } it you can tell right away if it 's a new york or boston accent , but new york and boston are two well , i guess they have the nyc , but new england has a bunch of very different dialects and postdoc b : mm - hmm . phd d : and so does um s so do other places . grad a : yeah , so i picked these regions cuz we had talked about timit , and those are right from timit . phd d : right . and so these would be satisfying like a speech research community if we released the database , but as to whether subjects know where they 're from , i 'm not sure because um i know that they had to fill this out for switchboard . this is i almost exactly the same as switchboard regions postdoc b : oh . ok . phd d : or very close . yeah . um and i do n't know how they filled that out . but th if midland yeah , midland is the one that 's difficult i guess . postdoc b : i think a lot of people yeah . phd d : also northwest you 've got oreg - washington and oregon now which uh y people do n't know if it 's western or northern . grad a : yeah , i certainly do n't . i mean , i was saying i do n't even know what i speak . phd d : it 's like northwest grad a : am i speaking am i speaking western ? professor c : oh , what is northern ? well and what and what 's northern ? phd d : i think originally it was north northwest grad a : northwest ? phd d : but phd e : yeah . grad a : yeah , so this is a real problem . i do n't know what to do about it . phd d : yeah . postdoc b : i would n't know how to characterize mine either . and and so i would think i would say , i 've i 've got a mix of california and ohio . grad a : i c i think at the first level , for example , we speak the same . phd d : i do n't know . grad a : our our dialects or whatever you region are the same . postdoc b : uh - huh . grad a : but i do n't know what it is . so . phd d : well , you have a like techno - speak accent i think . grad a : a techno - speak accent ? phd d : yeah , you know ? phd e : a techno grad a : a a geek region ? phd d : well it 's i mean i you can sort of identify postdoc b : geek region . phd d : it f it 's it 's not not that that 's phd e : is different . is different . phd d : but but maybe that maybe we could leave this and see what people see what people choose and then um let them just fill in if they do n't i mean i do n't know what else we can do , cuz that 's north midland . postdoc b : i 'm wondering about a question like , `` where are you from mostly ? `` phd e : yeah . professor c : but i i 'm s i 'm now that you mentioned it though , i am really am confused by `` northern `` . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : i agree . i agree . professor c : i really am . postdoc b : i agree . professor c : i mean , if if you 're in new england , that 's north . phd e : yeah . professor c : if you 're i if you 're postdoc b : scandinavian , the minnesota area 's north . professor c : uh yeah . that 's but that 's also north midland , phd e : yeah . postdoc b : oh , @ @ . ok . professor c : right ? and and and oregon and and oregon and washington are are western , but they 're also northern . phd d : yeah . of course , that 's very different from , like , michigan , or postdoc b : mm - hmm . professor c : uh , idaho ? phd d : well there are hardly any subjects from idaho . professor c : montana ? grad a : no problem . postdoc b : just rule them out . phd d : there 's only a few people in idaho . grad a : there are hardly any subjects from `` beep `` phd e : yeah . phd d : sorry . professor c : maybe maybe we maybe we should put a little map and say `` put an x on where you 're from `` , phd d : no , that 's phd e : and is in those grad a : yeah really . phd d : we could ask where they 're from . phd e : and if you put postdoc b : it 'd be pretty simple , yeah . phd d : yeah . but - we went back to that . phd e : yeah . if you put eh the state ? grad a : well well we sort of postdoc b : where are you from mostly ? phd d : we we went we went around this and then a lot of people ended up saying that it phd e : uh - huh . mm - hmm . phd d : you know . grad a : well , i like the idea of asking `` what variety of english do you speak `` as opposed to where you 're from because th if we start asking where we 're from , again you have to start saying , `` well , is that the language you speak or is that just where you 're from ? `` phd e : yeah . phd d : right . right . phd e : yeah . professor c : let 's mm - hmm . phd d : i mean it gives us good information on where they 're from , but that does n't { comment } tell us anything grad a : and professor c : we could always ask them if they 're from phd d : well , enough about their grad a : i mean . so so i would say germany phd d : like grad a : you know am i speaking with german accent i do n't think so . postdoc b : well , see , i 'm thinking `` where are you from mostly `` phd d : right . grad a : oh , ok yeah . postdoc b : because , you know , then you have some some kind of subjective amount of time factored into it . phd e : yeah . yeah . grad a : yep . yeah , i guess i could try to put squeeze in a little map . phd e : yeah . grad a : i mean there 's not a lot of r of room professor c : i 'd say , uh , `` boston , new york city , the south and regular `` . postdoc b : well phd d : oh , i do n't know . grad a : i think of those , northern is the only one that i do n't even know what they 're meaning . postdoc b : yeah . yeah . phd e : and and um and usually here people here know what is their kind of mmm lang english language ? professor c : that 's a joke . that 's phd d : so let 's make it up . s i mean , who cares . right ? we can make up our own so we can say `` northwest `` , `` rest of west `` or something . you know . `` west `` and i mean . grad a : ye i do n't think the northwest people speak any differently than i do . phd d : it does n't even yeah , exactly . that 's not really a region . postdoc b : i professor c : `` do you come from the louisiana purchase ? `` phd d : so we could take out `` north `` `` northern `` . grad a : that that 's exactly what we 're arguing about . phd e : eh here is easy for people to know ? phd d : that 's yeah , w it 's in it 's it 's harder in america anywhere else , basically . grad a : we do n't know . phd e : because you have grad a : i mean some of them are very obvious . if you if you talk to someone speaking with southern drawl , you know . phd e : n m yeah . postdoc b : yeah , or boston . grad a : or boston , yeah . postdoc b : i ca n't do it , but phd e : or boston ? professor c : yeah . phd d : and those people , if you ask them to self - identify their accent they know . phd e : yeah . postdoc b : yeah , they do . phd d : they know very well . postdoc b : yeah i agree i agree . i agree . phd d : they know they do n't speak the same as the grad a : but is boston new england ? postdoc b : and they 're proud of it . yeah . phd d : yeah , exactly . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> user interface : okay . industrial designer : or you get it . okay . user interface : no i do n't think so it has to be like that yeah and you have to adjust the length . okay , and then . project manager : so we uh we will wait for anna , a few minutes . user interface : yeah , s yeah , um . industrial designer : mm . yours is well user interface : i think you can put anywhere you want , actually . i thin industrial designer : yeah but the the mic should not user interface : it 's not a directional mic , anyway . project manager : i think it should work like this . industrial designer : project manager : so i will try to get my presentation running . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . mm . ca n't help you with that . user interface : last . project manager : it 's no matter . industrial designer : okay , it 's y yeah . project manager : no problem . ah yes . industrial designer : right . user interface : okay . industrial designer : then press uh al user interface : okay . industrial designer : this . project manager : i do n't know . industrial designer : you know ? project manager : just try . user interface : 'kay . project manager : on this normal industrial designer : oh oh . user interface : alt f_ five . project manager : good . does n't appear on the screen here . industrial designer : right well wow . amazing . it 's working . project manager : okay . thank you . uh . marketing : hold that . okay . project manager : yes and you can put can clip it uh on your marketing : okay . mm . project manager : somewhere . so , good morning , everyone . um welcome at uh at the kick off meeting of our uh latest project . industrial designer : project manager : i hope you all have been uh updated about it . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : good . user interface : so . yes . project manager : so w we will try to structure this uh meeting with an a with an agenda uh as presented here . um after the opening we will tr get acquainted to each other . user interface : project manager : see what our roles are in this project . so , um we have been provided with uh some uh w technical tools to uh to communicate and to well , learn from each other 's plans uh as i can say um so w we will also try to uh to get acquainted to this tools so they are also new to me i do n't know whether you worked with them before . um then we will come to the uh to the to the actual project plan . you all know i hope how it 's about uh the uh new r remote control we are going going to design . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : total . project manager : uh then we will uh discuss uh , well , how it should be and uh wh what uh what our new product should look lite like . and uh well then uh after some twenty five minutes i hope uh we can end this meeting . so . um basically this is about a uh a new c remote control . um we when you design a new product you of uh you of course want it to be original . be uh we want to be distinguished , mm ? people uh want to uh when they look at the shelf want to think , well that 's the product i i need . so it needs to be trendy . i mean trendy is what people want , so then i w they will buy our product . but then , uh , it also should work uh user friendly and uh otherwise people uh uh well it will not be uh be rated very well in consumer uh articles and like that . industrial designer : project manager : so , the general outline of uh new project will be we first uh go through a functional design phase . um you all get uh um certain task uh in this uh in this phase and uh then we will meet again and uh discuss this functional design . and the same holds for the uh ph two phases uh after this , the conceptual design and after that a a more detailed design in which the the final project should get its definite shape . alright , but first we will do some uh tool training . in all in front of you uh you see uh the uh notebooks and w uh n note blocks and we have here a a a a white-board . user interface : whitebo marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and um well it should work uh i 've read it from my uh from some colleague that it should work with some kind of toolbar . i did n't find out yet how it work , but maybe one of you did , so um industrial designer : under documents in the shared folder . okay . project manager : yes . do do we have to say something about that ? i i i 'm not fully updated about this shared folder uh . industrial designer : yeah , i guess we 'll have a shared folder uh with documents that we can share . and uh , yeah . project manager : yes well we will then find out ho how it works . um . well , this seems to me , yes , some computer program but i did n't find it yet . so , we 'll come to that later . so , uh now we will try out the white-board we have here . so , i would suggest uh industrial designer : each of us is going . project manager : well , yes , um we uh we should try to t to draw on it and then well it should be smart some way . i i 'm not really sure how this works , but industrial designer : okay , shall i start ? marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : yeah , project manager : a good idea mael . user interface : you can start it you know . marketing : i think for us it 's just like a normal whiteboard , but they 'll be recording what we write down . industrial designer : so , i user interface : no they will record through that . there 's a sensor over there marketing : mm . mm . user interface : which is going to record the strokes that you make . marketing : but for us it 's just like a normal whiteboard . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'kay . user interface : industrial designer : but it 's marketing : industrial designer : actually , i think i can not go with uh project manager : you you d does n't it work ? maybe someo maybe maybe anna , maybe you can start . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : then he can maybe find out to get his cord right . marketing : i have to draw . project manager : so um l why do n't you draw uh your favourite animal on on th on the white-board . industrial designer : marketing : m my my favourite animal . sorry this is all tangled up here . project manager : oh , i see uh marketing : that 's better . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : yeah . yes . mm . so draw it . we will try to guess what it is . marketing : mm-hmm . i 'm a very bad drawer . project manager : marketing : weird . um . you 're not gon na be able to guess from my drawing . i 'm a bad drawer . okay . they 're ears , by the way . user interface : 's a cat . marketing : no . um close though . okay so like a pet animal . industrial designer : okay . marketing : like a cat . user interface : yeah . project manager : it 's like a cat , so i guess it 's a cat . marketing : no , not a cat though . project manager : what is this now ? user interface : ah you forget about it . industrial designer : you 're on the knife . user interface : yeah , uh i think it 's fine . i just do n't want to carry it off . man , this wires , eh ? we need a wireless microphone . industrial designer : user interface : you know ? pro specially we should next project we should take l like that . marketing : okay . so . it 's not a cat , project manager : that 's the cat . marketing : it 's a dog . industrial designer : mael . project manager : it 's a dog . so but that 's also kind of cat , is n't it ? user interface : the dog does n't have a tail ? marketing : it 's got a tail then . project manager : b bo both predators . user interface : yeah , sure , yeah . marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : i thought so . the dogs have a tail . marketing : so do cats . project manager : so , thank you . uh d did you uh work out cord ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : and you guessed cats without a tail . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , i think i will go without without it , marketing : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : right ? user interface : it 'll still not extend , right ? it 's not up to that . marketing : okay , there you go . so what favourite characteristics . uh . dogs are always friendly and loyal and fun . a horse ? user interface : it 's a horse . marketing : this is why you 're the designer . and i 'm marketing . project manager : yes . yes , yes this is yes definitely a horse . yes . oh very good . so marketing : ah project manager : i suppose it user interface : ah i think you can put that . marketing : mm-hmm . that 's it . a blue and black zebra . user interface : marketing : project manager : yes . can you can meet them in africa , i think . yes . very good . so marketing : the very rare blue zebras . yes . user interface : i 'll tell to get it off my project manager : ma matthew ? user interface : uh ? mm-hmm . project manager : so marketing : you got a lot of room here . project manager : maybe marketing : you can probably reach . user interface : oh y it 's not for that . project manager : i hope you have some space in your uh the horse of uh mael . user interface : okay . yeah . so what should i draw ? mm . he has already to do cat . marketing : i took a dog . industrial designer : marketing : um . a mouse ? project manager : this looks likes a cat who has been driven over . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : and we should sum up its favourite charas characteristics , right ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yes , the moustache . industrial designer : so project manager : that 's that 's definitely a cat . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh yeah . and i th they like to sleep , that 's why you said you they are like this . project manager : it 's quite , you know relaxed situation . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yes , okay . marketing : industrial designer : she has the small legs . project manager : th thank you , matthew . industrial designer : yeah . thank you , matthew . marketing : it 's a very big rat . or a very small cat . project manager : industrial designer : perfect . oh a rat , okay . project manager : yes , this is certain uh some contribution to our project . marketing : mm 'kay . industrial designer : and you , marketing : your turn . project manager : so . let 's see . which animal has not been drawn yet . so you 've all drawn land animals , marketing : project manager : so why not draw an animal from the water . industrial designer : a bird . okay , in the water . marketing : ah i do n't know what that is . it 's a bit project manager : mm . marketing : it 's a bit hard to guess . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : user interface : so industrial designer : put it colours . maybe it would help us . marketing : yeah . user interface : the cat is going to eat the fish or the rat ? industrial designer : with different pen widths . marketing : mm-hmm. $ project manager : so marketing : oh , it 's a shark now . industrial designer : ah it 's a shark , yeah . marketing : project manager : oh , yes , why not ? industrial designer : project manager : good idea . user interface : ah it 's a baby shark , it looks to me , you know it 's going to eat the cat rather than the cat eating the fish , no ? marketing : now it 's a swordfish . project manager : why not . a swordfish . marketing : industrial designer : you have some in in australia , right ? marketing : swordfish . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um , maybe . industrial designer : i dunno . marketing : i 've never seen one , no . industrial designer : oh well . yeah . project manager : i hope it still works . so industrial designer : perfect . so i dunno if we need to spend time on that , actually but uh user interface : you should go for the next one it seems to me . project manager : w well , this uh this tool seemed to work . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , exactly , yeah . project manager : let 's continue to uh to the real stuff . um our project uh finance uh thing . uh when we are and when w you are uh going to design w uh we must keep in mind that the selling price of the product uh will be about twenty five euros , so when designing a project uh i also look at you uh mael , keep in mind uh uh uh people uh user interface : twenty four . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : want to get the feeling this is a twenty five euro project uh pr um product . industrial designer : per remote control , yeah ? per project . project manager : yes . okay . um industrial designer : project manager : more interesting for our company of course , p uh profit aim , about fifty million euro . so we have to sell uh quite a lot of this uh um things . uh we will try to uh to get at a international market uh so um it will be i think mainly europe and uh northern america , user interface : ah yeah , the sale man , four million . project manager : maybe some uh asian countries . um also important for you all is um the the product uh production cost must be maximal uh twelve uh twelve euro and fifty cents . industrial designer : so it 's half of the selling price , if i am good in mathematics . project manager : yes , of course . uh um i mean we still have to uh to make a profit , huh ? user interface : they have to sell at least four million to make a profit industrial designer : of course . marketing : mm . project manager : you all have to be paid . excuse me ? user interface : ah we have to make we have to sell at least four million to make our own profit . fifty mill industrial designer : oh you 're g very good in mathematics . marketing : yes . user interface : project manager : yes , indeed . user interface : industrial designer : four million . project manager : so uh well i think w when we are working on the international market , uh in principle it has enough customers industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh so when we have a good product we uh we could uh meet this this aim , i think . so , that about finance . and uh now just let have some discussion about what is a good remote control and uh well keep in mind this this first point , it has to be original , it has to be trendy , it has to be user friendly . um , maybe someone can mention some additional uh prerequisites for a good remote control . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : of course it should have a on off button . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : yes , well i it should have the the the the expected functionality uh of a remote control . marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : yeah , s and it depends what application you are using it for . you might need uh project manager : we wer we were thinking television . uh . user interface : we are targ targeting the television set . so , you need to record the channels . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : you need to browse the browse the channels in upward downward way , project manager : yes , yes . th th that 's very handy i i always miss it and on some remote controls that you can go channel up or down ins instead of retyping the number , especially when you have a lot of channels . user interface : uh and marketing : mm . mm . user interface : uh , and industrial designer : and uh just before starting the detailed discussion , maybe we are the marketing guy ? or marketing : i 'm marketing . user interface : marketing . industrial designer : th so you are the marketing . and you are in the u use user interface uh design . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : so just yeah i wanted to to be sure . user interface : sure . industrial designer : and i i 'm the the industrial designer marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : industrial designer : okay . because i i do n't know you very well , actually , but yeah . user interface : i 'm matthew . you know . industrial designer : okay . mael . user interface : matth s uh industrial designer : happy to meet you . marketing : anna . user interface : anna . industrial designer : okay . it 's very uh project manager : a and i 'm nanne . user interface : and um uh matthew , yeah . project manager : so user interface : i thi think you know me , industrial designer : uh so yeah uh just uh on your web page but uh yeah not uh not face to face . user interface : yeah ? right yeah . project manager : so . um s industrial designer : so mm project manager : are there some other very important things to to do well , user interface : so industrial designer : so i project manager : to specify in this first phase of of the project . so the browse function , as you m mentioned . marketing : mm . yeah . oth yeah . user interface : and uh , you 'd need the usual ones , like the changing the volume , changing the the channel and then you uh project manager : yes . yeah . user interface : today we have uh um teletext and all those things . tomorrow you might have a some more functions which might come through that , so industrial designer : like what ? like internet on the on tv ? user interface : yeah i_p_o_ or . now we are looking for television things or i_p_ . for example personal video recorder and all those stuffs are coming up . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm . but we ca n't really design for something that has n't been invented yet . user interface : yeah . ah it 's it 's it 's it 's coming up , actually . the personal video recorder and all those things it is coming up . project manager : mm , well uh i i think uh w y you two should should , i think , think this over uh w espec what , what functionality . industrial designer : actually , yeah user interface : let 's let 's take industrial designer : w of course , and first before um designing the func well thinking about the functionalities , we need to know what are the user requirements . marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : um then if they need internet , then we would be able to to p to propose something with uh uh tv over i_p_ . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . mm . yeah . but ninety percent of the time , ninety nine percent of the time , people will be using the main functions , the volume , the different channels , so we can have all the fancy things as well but the main controls need to be very obvious and very easy to use . project manager : mm mm mm . keep k keep in mind i it 's a it 's a twenty five euro unit , so uh uh the the very fancy stuff uh w we can leave that out , i think . so twenty five euro you expect a quite , well normal but good functioning user friendly remote control . user interface : oh in that case you can you always hook up with uh someone who is providing that and you know , you you sell their product as well as your product with them , you know . marketing : mm . so try and get tv manufacturers to user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , but w w we want to design a new one . mm . user interface : no , it 's okay , yeah i understand . so we need some numbering buttons , some teletext things industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then um industrial designer : the yeah , the main is browsing . yeah . project manager : yes , but but but ab about the spec the buttons , the buttons uh that will be on it . i i think we can discuss that in the in the next meeting . user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : uh i would like to get this wrapped up and go to an end of this meeting . user interface : okay . project manager : so user interface : okay , we are alread mm . mm . industrial designer : okay . project manager : you know now the basic the basic things . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : well just just for the next meeting , um well , uh , you wor yes , work on a design , keep it general , i mean so w we will be still fle flexible with maybe adding some functions . so industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um you will be working on on technical function design , so user interface : yeah , sure . project manager : and uh you and you and uh uh uh well , think about requirements , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : eh ? does it need internet , or or do do we stay at basic basic television uh interface . user interface : stam . marketing : yeah . project manager : so , uh i think we should now all go work uh uh at this marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and uh you will be informed via email and other kind of communication . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . project manager : so next meeting will be in uh in thirty minutes uh . industrial designer : perfect . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about prioritizing remote control features ? </s> user interface : today we have uh um teletext and all those things . tomorrow you might have a some more functions which might come through that , so industrial designer : like what ? like internet on the on tv ? user interface : yeah i_p_o_ or . now we are looking for television things or i_p_ . for example personal video recorder and all those stuffs are coming up . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm . but we ca n't really design for something that has n't been invented yet . user interface : yeah . ah it 's it 's it 's it 's coming up , actually . the personal video recorder and all those things it is coming up . project manager : mm , well uh i i think uh w y you two should should , i think , think this over uh w espec what , what functionality . industrial designer : actually , yeah user interface : let 's let 's take industrial designer : w of course , and first before um designing the func well thinking about the functionalities , we need to know what are the user requirements . marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : um then if they need internet , then we would be able to to p to propose something with uh uh tv over i_p_ . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . mm . yeah . but ninety percent of the time , ninety nine percent of the time , people will be using the main functions , the volume , the different channels , so we can have all the fancy things as well but the main controls need to be very obvious and very easy to use . project manager : mm mm mm . keep k keep in mind i it 's a it 's a twenty five euro unit , so uh uh the the very fancy stuff uh w we can leave that out , i think . so twenty five euro you expect a quite , well normal but good functioning user friendly remote control . user interface : oh in that case you can you always hook up with uh someone who is providing that and you know , you you sell their product as well as your product with them , you know . marketing : mm . so try and get tv manufacturers to user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , but w w we want to design a new one . mm . user interface : no , it 's okay , yeah i understand . so we need some numbering buttons , some teletext things industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then um industrial designer : the yeah , the main is browsing . yeah . project manager : yes , but but but ab about the spec the buttons , the buttons uh that will be on it . i i think we can discuss that in the in the next meeting . user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : uh i would like to get this wrapped up and go to an end of this meeting . user interface : okay . project manager : so user interface : okay , we are alread mm . mm . industrial designer : okay . project manager : you know now the basic the basic things . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : well just just for the next meeting , um well , uh , you wor yes , work on a design , keep it general , i mean so w we will be still fle flexible with maybe adding some functions . so industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um you will be working on on technical function design , so user interface : yeah , sure . project manager : and uh you and you and uh uh uh well , think about requirements , marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> why did marketing disagree with industrial designer ? </s>  </s>
<s> what did user interface think about prioritizing remote control features ? </s> user interface : today we have uh um teletext and all those things . tomorrow you might have a some more functions which might come through that , so industrial designer : like what ? like internet on the on tv ? user interface : yeah i_p_o_ or . now we are looking for television things or i_p_ . for example personal video recorder and all those stuffs are coming up . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm . but we ca n't really design for something that has n't been invented yet . user interface : yeah . ah it 's it 's it 's it 's coming up , actually . the personal video recorder and all those things it is coming up . project manager : so twenty five euro you expect a quite , well normal but good functioning user friendly remote control . user interface : oh in that case you can you always hook up with uh someone who is providing that and you know , you you sell their product as well as your product with them , you know . marketing : mm . so try and get tv manufacturers to user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , but w w we want to design a new one . mm . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about cost constraints and financial targets of the new remote control project . </s> project manager : let 's continue to uh to the real stuff . um our project uh finance uh thing . uh when we are and when w you are uh going to design w uh we must keep in mind that the selling price of the product uh will be about twenty five euros , so when designing a project uh i also look at you uh mael , keep in mind uh uh uh people uh user interface : twenty four . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : want to get the feeling this is a twenty five euro project uh pr um product . industrial designer : per remote control , yeah ? per project . project manager : yes . okay . um industrial designer : project manager : more interesting for our company of course , p uh profit aim , about fifty million euro . so we have to sell uh quite a lot of this uh um things . uh we will try to uh to get at a international market uh so um it will be i think mainly europe and uh northern america , user interface : ah yeah , the sale man , four million . project manager : maybe some uh asian countries . um also important for you all is um the the product uh production cost must be maximal uh twelve uh twelve euro and fifty cents . industrial designer : so it 's half of the selling price , if i am good in mathematics . project manager : yes , of course . uh um i mean we still have to uh to make a profit , huh ? user interface : they have to sell at least four million to make a profit industrial designer : of course . marketing : mm . project manager : you all have to be paid . excuse me ? user interface : ah we have to make we have to sell at least four million to make our own profit . fifty mill industrial designer : oh you 're g very good in mathematics . marketing : yes . user interface : project manager : yes , indeed . user interface : industrial designer : four million . project manager : so uh well i think w when we are working on the international market , uh in principle it has enough customers industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> what did project manager think of the cost constraints and financial targets of the new remote control project ? </s> project manager : um our project uh finance uh thing . uh when we are and when w you are uh going to design w uh we must keep in mind that the selling price of the product uh will be about twenty five euros , so when designing a project uh i also look at you uh mael , keep in mind uh uh uh people uh user interface : twenty four . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : want to get the feeling this is a twenty five euro project uh pr um product . industrial designer : per remote control , yeah ? per project . project manager : yes . okay . um industrial designer : project manager : more interesting for our company of course , p uh profit aim , about fifty million euro . so we have to sell uh quite a lot of this uh um things . uh we will try to uh to get at a international market uh so um it will be i think mainly europe and uh northern america , user interface : ah yeah , the sale man , four million . project manager : maybe some uh asian countries . um also important for you all is um the the product uh production cost must be maximal uh twelve uh twelve euro and fifty cents . industrial designer : so it 's half of the selling price , if i am good in mathematics . project manager : yes , of course . uh um i mean we still have to uh to make a profit , huh ? user interface : they have to sell at least four million to make a profit industrial designer : of course . marketing : mm . project manager : you all have to be paid . excuse me ? user interface : ah we have to make we have to sell at least four million to make our own profit . fifty mill industrial designer : oh you 're g very good in mathematics . marketing : yes . user interface : project manager : yes , indeed . user interface : industrial designer : four million . project manager : so uh well i think w when we are working on the international market , uh in principle it has enough customers industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> what did user interface think of cost constraints and financial targets of the new remote control project ? </s> user interface : ah yeah , the sale man , four million . project manager : maybe some uh asian countries . um also important for you all is um the the product uh production cost must be maximal uh twelve uh twelve euro and fifty cents . industrial designer : so it 's half of the selling price , if i am good in mathematics . project manager : yes , of course . uh um i mean we still have to uh to make a profit , huh ? user interface : they have to sell at least four million to make a profit industrial designer : of course . marketing : mm . project manager : you all have to be paid . excuse me ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : project manager : um almost , there 's one more thing i have to get out of the i have to make sure that this attachment will open . industrial designer : i keep forgetting whether i 've done this . . project manager : ah-ha . okay . we 'll open that when the time is right . in the meantime closing things down , okay . let 's see what this thing does . does it come up together or disappear one of them or what ? ah , we came up together , we 're good . okay . are we ready to start ? okay . it 's now quarter of four . this is a f another forty minute one so it will end at four twenty five . okay . right . our agenda is , as before , for me to open the meeting , for us to go over the previous minutes , then for the two of you to present your prototype and for you to g um sarah present the evaluation criteria . we then have a finance aspect , which is a spreadsheet , an excel spreadsheet . and i know what you 're all thinking of , oh my , um because we 're only given a forty minute time period to get it all in , including the production evaluation . so we 're going to make a very fast track . okay . um and as you can see that 's what we do next on this thing . so the first thing i have to do is close this so that i can get to where is it ? i need to open mine . not the agenda . marketing : agenda three . project manager : no that th i want the minutes from the previous minutes . that should be there , minutes . yeah . okay . uh from meeting three , is it alright with you if i do n't switch it to show , just use it as is ? 'cause this way i can more easily flip it . okay , um obviously all of us were here for the last meeting , we reviewed the previous minutes before that , um each of you made your presentations . um we discussed the various possibilities based on what was presented in those presentations . the market trend of fruit and veg , mm spongy , uh fancy and elegant more than technologically innovative and that more than easy . um we decided chip on print would be used . um we would use plastic with a rubber casing , i think was the consensus , powered by kinetic energy . there was no decision made on the curvatures or double curvature or straight . um perhaps the prototype will give us an inkling of that . um looking like a scroll , but it 's really a push button technology , excuse my spelling um that was actually in use , that is uh behind the scenes is push button which we uh according to kate have a very good uh grasp on doing that in production . um we decided that separate fashionable covers covering your fruit and veg might be a separate product that could be suggested to management . um and as suggested um yellow with black buttons with the company logo , a slogan and image might be a good idea based on the requirements that have been provided to us . um we did have a few production issues and coordination of the various bits and we had some conflict of ideas and cost constraints and we ran out of time . um we had to follow that up and prepare for the last one . and uh we closed as it ran out of time . is that a fair presentation of what happened ? okay , back to this meeting . um we 're down to the prototype presentation . industrial designer : ta-da . user interface : alright . project manager : over to you . industrial designer : right . user interface : well . project manager : ooh , two . user interface : yeah , well you see , each made one , we did n't have enough yellow dough . industrial designer : user interface : this is the one that i made . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : it is uh curved , easy to hold , hand-held , nice and small with big easy buttons . this is like a scroll , but they are push buttons and they enter takes you into the different menus . of course we need someone who 's experienced with the television . i mean this is the infrared thing that 's gon na zap at the television . uh i 'm not quite sure how to make that , but i 'm sure it will work . uh this is on off switch , 'cause i think we do need that , and i think it gives it a nice balance . project manager : 'kay . user interface : and it 's gon na have the logo imprinted on it uh in there . project manager : okay . user interface : um as for what it 's actually made of well the function of these buttons is up , down , left and right in the different menus . project manager : okay . user interface : uh position , i presume that just means right right on it , easy to see . the main feature of it is just a simple design , simple , lack of uh buttons all over the place . right ? form curved , kind of smooth , hand-held , makes it feel nice to hold . uh material , i think kate 's gon na tackle that quite a bit , but i think we have two different options , because we did make a another one , which wa uh is in the shape of banana , it 's just if you can imagine this as yellow with black buttons , like just like this but in the shape of a banana , project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : which is also nice and easy to hold and feels good and has a similar sort of scroll push button technology , just a slightly different design . project manager : user interface : also with on off switch and infrared uh i had envisioned it in hard smooth plastic . so like uh well , i dunno , what 's it like ? i guess like an existing remote control , but molded and smooth . whereas otherwise we 'd thought , like with this one or mix and match , just we were gon na see what you thought , the uh a more spongy rubber cover with spongy buttons . so we have the two options we can follow , either the smooth hard plastic or the spongy rubber , depending on cost restraints . and what we well , what conclusion we reach when we discuss it . uh material yeah , that 's what i have to say about material . can i scroll down on there and see what else industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : well colour , i think i definitely have a preference towards bright yellow with black buttons , because that 's the company colours , but if anybody 's got any other suggestions , i 'm quite willing to consider them as well . so , it just depends what you think about these ideas and if i 'm yeah , maybe , kate , you better say what you think about them . industrial designer : um well i do n't have very much to add . um the the case oops , that 's the uh on off button just come off our prototype . user interface : industrial designer : the the case can be either um spongy rubber or hard plastic . we 're not absolutely sure about a combination of the two , but it can be either of those . we have the technology to do that . um and as for the the actual components um , uh steph just said this is a quite a cheap device to manufacture . we have simple rubber push buttons um which provide all the functionality we need . um the um the diode that actually does the um infrared is at the end , it 's the stalk of the banana , or it 's just the thing at the end of this version . um so that 's for material . colour , well uh steph 's the expert on colour . um we we do n't have any particular restrictions on that . yeah , i think that 's all we 've got to say really . user interface : i thin as for as for the fruit or organic theme , i guess this one is obviously fruit shaped . industrial designer : a banana . user interface : this one has n banana , yeah . this one has no obvious connections to fruit , but because it 's round and molded , it kinda makes you think sort of organic , touchy-feely , kiddie , it 's more like yeah , you 'd expect it to be like a child 's sorta toy remote control instead of a real one , which i quite like that sort of image . 'cause it 's very big and chunky and child-friendly and industrial designer : would you care to examine the prototypes , see how they feel in the hand ? user interface : hold them , you see , you know . curvature , is it to your liking ? project manager : oh i see , the on-off 's in the back . industrial designer : yes , that 's so that your index finger automatically goes straight to it . user interface : if you do n't wan na tire out your thumbs after all . project manager : and then you can use your thumb . industrial designer : and it was partly we thought the design looked better , user interface : yeah . project manager : i could see this thing , unless it 's reinforced , having a problem with the you know user interface : breaking , project manager : yeah . user interface : oh right . well you see , that 's why hard plastic would be quite a good thing for it , because then it 'd just be rigid . marketing : i like the fact that on both of them the keys play such a prominent role . user interface : yeah , we really like we really like that design , marketing : it 's really kind of a user interface : i mean it looks just like a logo , that arrangement of the keys . like a c like a compass point , you know , marketing : mm-hmm mm-hmm . user interface : just up , down , left and right , and we think we could make that quite a good feature . and it 's like the the ipod scroll wheel , but better . marketing : yeah . but it 's also like texting , user interface : yeah . yeah , yeah , marketing : you do n't user interface : i mean it that 's what it makes me think of , mobile phones , marketing : industrial designer : user interface : i was try i was thinking , moving your thumb like this , what does that remind me of ? industrial designer : and it 's a very simple design , marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's texting . industrial designer : there 's not a lot to wrong , the components are cheap to make . marketing : it 's also in terms of um being lost it 's it 's quite it looks quite different . you know , i i d i have several four remotes , and they all look the same until you get up close and you have to user interface : yeah . marketing : you know , this is really identifiable . user interface : i mean the thing is we do need to develop our technology of i mean actually how to program the menus and what sort of , you know , text box is gon na appear at the bottom of the screen , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : but we do definitely think that it 's a viable option . project manager : okay . the next item is evaluation . marketing : no , okay . project manager : uh if that 's if you 're finished . user interface : uh yeah , we 're finished . marketing : um industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : shall i take your uh power ? project manager : oh sorry . try again . marketing : okay . this is going to be a heavily interactive evaluation , and the method here is to evaluate the new remote control in terms of the user requirements and the hot trends introduced by the marketing department . so , this means we 're going to go over the priorities that were raised by uh the consumers a as well as incorporate all of our insight into this uh evaluation exercise . so i 'm going to go and use the whiteboard , and i 've made a list of criteria to look at , and so i 'm gon na i 'm gon na leave this up as the last thing , but for the evaluation it 's going to be one is true and seven is false , going over these different criteria , so one true seven false and i 'm gon na now use the um the board . okay . so um fancy , technologically innovative , easy to use , trendy , buttons , excess buttons , good buttons , ugly , sellable , and other . and in fact i hope that uh you all introduce some additional terms , because these are things that um have been brought up , some of them seem rather close , user interface : yeah , what about price , is that gon na go on there as well ? price of materials . marketing : like they overlap . mm , yeah , price . we 'll put price up at the top . user interface : not that we actually know anything about it , industrial designer : user interface : but we can we can pretend . marketing : project manager : well we will soon , unfortunately . marketing : um okay , so project manager : come on . marketing : did you say ? project manager : no , . marketing : uh okay , so wha how do we feel in terms of is this fancy ? user interface : it depends what what you mean by fancy really , 'cause when i think of fancy , i think of it 's got lots of extra sort of fripperies and , you know , like baroque curliness and which marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i 'd call these quite uh minimalist , industrial designer : yes , a plain , simple , clean design . user interface : simple and plain , but i mean i do see what it is heavily reliant on appearance instead of pure functionality , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so in that respect it is quite fancy . marketing : i yeah , so in that respect i think we 'll go with that respect . user interface : i think just maybe we need a different word other than fancy , i 'd say maybe aesthetic . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well we have got s trendy further down , project manager : elegant . industrial designer : but project manager : elegant . marketing : elegant . industrial designer : elegant , i do n't know if i 'd call them elegant . marketing : yeah , no these are n't the exact terms that the um user interface : like stylish or aesthetic . industrial designer : stylish , yeah . marketing : yeah . elegant . we 're gon let 's use elegant , although the the the people , the word on the street is is user interface : fancy . marketing : yeah . n that um user interface : did you just break the pen ? project manager : marketing : yeah uh the uh is fancy . so let 's let 's take it to the next level . user interface : well d we 'll just call it fancy then . marketing : well okay , so in terms of elegant , fancy . we 'll call it e_f_ um , do we do we think that perhaps and maybe we should say the yellow ? should we go with the yellow in terms of i think that 's a really superior user interface : yeah , i think we n we need to marketing : they 're both user interface : they 're both yellow with black buttons , it 's just that we did n't have any more dough to represent uh that , marketing : yeah . user interface : but if you can just imagine banana shape with these bits as black . marketing : yeah . user interface : so what we re really need to decide is whether we want the actual banana shape or just a a purely blob or some sort of abstraction in between the two marketing : yeah . user interface : that is n't that is more curved , like a banana , but that is n't actually recognisable as a banana , you know , with the grooves and the stalk and stuff , marketing : as a banana . i think that many of us are abstract enough to look at the yellow one and say we 'll call it the banana . project manager : yeah . marketing : and of the two i really like i m i like the banana , project manager : the chunk . marketing : but i i do like the chunk . user interface : so that 's maybe not something we have to decide just right now , is it . just somewhere a long the scale of in between these two . marketing : but i mean in terms we have to evaluate one of them . unless do you guys wan na evaluate both ? project manager : i think between the two , somewhere between the two is true . industrial designer : yeah , i 'd project manager : it 's more true than false , about a two . marketing : okay . so we say true . technologically innovative . user interface : industrial designer : i d i do n't think that 's what we 're aiming at with this concept . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think we 're using simple components that are gon na be robust but not particularly innovative . marketing : so we 'll say we 'll say uh false . easy to use . industrial designer : very . marketing : one , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : is that inappropriate ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . oh , pardon me . um project manager : trendy . user interface : oh yes . marketing : trendy , s and i say specifically spongy fruity . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : well , maybe only a two or a three then , 'cause it 's no we still have n't decided about specific sponginess or specific industrial designer : we have the worry about how robust it will be if it 's it 's curved as a banana but spongy . i think user interface : yeah , i do n't really think that 's gon na work , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but marketing : okay , so two ? um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : excess buttons . marketing : are there excess buttons ? that is false . industrial designer : so that 's false . marketing : um good , well designed buttons , intuitive buttons . project manager : better , more intuitive buttons , yes . marketing : true . ugly . user interface : no . marketing : people do n't respond well to ugly . sellable , uh quirky , you know , something people industrial designer : yeah , i think they 're different , are n't they ? user interface : well it is quite it is quite quirky i think . marketing : like oh , project manager : i like it . marketing : yeah . yeah , i do too . user interface : it could be quite a good brand , like a good little object . marketing : oh yeah . and i was i was thinking of other things um in terms of uh could we say it 's cost saving ? with the user interface : oh , we also need tho think about the energy . is it the kinetic energy ? marketing : yeah , with the energy . industrial designer : mm . user interface : if it 's it is gon na be environmentally friendly with the kinetic energy . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it is going to be kinetic ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : we 'll c we 'll say it 's a cost saving enviro . yeah , uh so yes . user interface : yeah , but we have n't completely developed that side of it yet , so we 're not completely sure about that , marketing : well user interface : but yeah . marketing : you 're still in the play-doh stage . user interface : yeah . marketing : anything else ? including price , do you have any idea about price or other features ? industrial designer : well i think our instinct is that it should be pretty cheap to develop . we have n't got a lot of expensive components in there . project manager : yes , the instinct says true . marketing : okay . so true one or should i go to two or three ? industrial designer : i 'd put it at one i think , but i dunno , what do you user interface : i would say maybe a two , marketing : okay . user interface : 'cause we still we need to uh get somebody in who is good with the programming for the menus and things . industrial designer : yeah , true , user interface : i mean it 's not just like i mean it 's not like ev you know , on a normal chunky remote every button res i mean means something different , project manager : yeah , that 's not a cheap thing to get . industrial designer : it might be the yeah , yeah , true . true . user interface : whereas this one has only got the four buttons and they all they mean everything , depending on what menu you 're in . industrial designer : yeah , that 's a good point . user interface : uh we need somebody to develop that . marketing : um other ? anything else you guys can thing of ? and i 'm gon na actually change a couple of these so then i 'm gon na instead of ugly i 'm gon na say it 's attractive and then make that true , so that user interface : yeah . marketing : 'cause i have to do an average . industrial designer : right . marketing : and then um excess buttons . user interface : just putting no excess buttons . marketing : exactly . wow we 're doing really well . yeah , be you know , user interface : as for marketing : so it does n't ruin the polarity . user interface : see if we 're technologically innovative , i 'd say it is quite innovative , because there are n't really many that have this menu idea instead of all the extra buttons . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean i know we 're not doing anything involving internet or speech recognition but but we are at the upper end of the push button market . marketing : or lcd . yeah . well if you g uh let me know if if any of these um if you if you all can think of any other um thing to change here if you th if you think i should change the innovative or add other features . if not i 'll average those . project manager : i think we 're good . marketing : okay . mm . project manager : okay . we 're a little over halfway through the meeting marketing : so project manager : and the next big thing is the finance . okay . marketing : um okay , how about if i uh pass this back to you and i 'll uh figure out the average here . project manager : right . marketing : thank you for everyone 's help with that . project manager : right . and as you can see it says the same thing , it had not lost itself , thank goodness . and we 're going to raise what 's called a sp a spreadsheet that they provided to me . um and it says fill in the number of components you plan to use in your device . user interface : project manager : hand dynamo , battery , kinetic , solar cells . okay . user interface : well , just kinetic then , . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um what 's a hand dynamo ? industrial designer : that was the crank , wind-up crank on the side . user interface : it 's the wind-up . marketing : project manager : shoot , forget that . kinetic is um and how many of those will we need per we only need one . industrial designer : just one . project manager : okay . electronic simple chip on print , and we 'll need one of those . industrial designer : uh uh yeah , i think we can do it all with simple just checking that . yeah , simple , 'cause we 've just got push buttons , so we can do it all with simple which is the ch should be the cheapest . project manager : okay , and we only need one of those . okay , the case will be uncurved and flat or a single curve or a double curve . it looks like it single curve , 'cause of th the chunkiness . it 's industrial designer : yeah , that that one is single curve , project manager : that 's uh uh one . industrial designer : is n't it ? um do we have project manager : and that 's user interface : what does double curved mean , i do n't understand . industrial designer : i i think you it means you reverse the curve . project manager : uh that 's the the one that goes like this . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , i do i do n't think we need that for either of them , user interface : oh no , we do n't need that . no . project manager : right . industrial designer : you can do a banana in single curve , user interface : single-curved , i 'd say . project manager : single curve . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay , case material supplements . plastic , wood , rubber , titanium , special colour . industrial designer : user interface : i just wan na say plastic . project manager : we had the special colour . and did we say plastic ? industrial designer : yeah , can we do some what ifs , 'cause it may project manager : yeah . industrial designer : i mean i i still quite like the idea of combining plastic and rubber myself , marketing : one , two , three , four , five , six . industrial designer : but it depends on the cost , i guess . project manager : okay . we 'll come back , if we can , to the rubber being added at the moment , that 's where we are . interface button push button interface . that 's what we 're using , user interface : it 's just button . yeah . project manager : is n't it ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : do we need to say how many buttons , or project manager : whoops , do n't want that , not yet . um industrial designer : or d is it just one ? project manager : no , it just says push button interface . button supplements , they 'll be in a special colour of black . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : and the buttons wha what is the buttons made of , rubber ? industrial designer : uh they 'll be rubber , yep . project manager : so we need one of them . and are they any special form ? user interface : well yeah , like the compass point one . industrial designer : actually , does tha does special material mean that plastic is not a special material ? 'cause i think they can be plastic . project manager : 'cause the rate we 're going we can put the rubber on top . industrial designer : yeah . they could be plastic , we do n't have to have rubber buttons , because we have n't got a double curved case . user interface : yeah , they could be plastic . project manager : okay . um let 's put that rubber in then , of the case material supplement . industrial designer : it 's just one , is n't it ? project manager : uh we only need one of them . um and the total cost has been calculated as nine pounds twenty out of the twelve and a half we were allowed . industrial designer : what , we 're in . marketing : yeah . project manager : we 're in . that 's us . industrial designer : more profit . user interface : great . project manager : okay , i 'm going to save this into our desktop , project documents . okay . as our project document bit . industrial designer : do you do you need to double click on that to open it ? project manager : yeah . there we are . that 's the only excel document that will be in there , so it 's there for all of us . okay , so , are they under twelve fifty ? yes , go to the project evaluation , next slide . right . um the project process , satisfaction with , for example , the room for creativity . yeah , leadership , teamwork , user interface : yeah . marketing : sure . yes . project manager : means , of having whiteboard , the digital pens and all that kind of good things . marketing : user interface : and play-doh . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , the play-doh was best , i thought . project manager : user interface : yeah well , 'cause i mean it 's so hard to describe what you mean just with words and pointing at photographs and saying , well we quite want this , but imagine it rounder . so much better just to go and , you know , this is it , this is what we want . industrial designer : yep . project manager : okay . so , we went over all those things and we 're satisfied with all the above . um did we find any new ideas ? marketing : i think with the marketing element of uh fruit shaped i i mean i that really opened my eyes . user interface : yeah . spongy . marketing : i i only speak for myself though . user interface : and i 'd never heard of the kinetic energy before , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so . good work as a design team , industrial designer : yeah , i think we 're a good team actually . user interface : because we industrial designer : i 'm not sure all the wires are really great though . project manager : so we actually worked well as a group . industrial designer : i thought so . project manager : right . are the costs within the budget ? yes . user interface : oh yes . project manager : is the project evaluated ? marketing : i can give you a number , industrial designer : hang on , oh we have n't heard . project manager : uh-huh . marketing : um it 's uh the average evaluation score is one point eight eight , so it means w you know , i can i can spell it out . there were six true or ones , four um pardon me , two s almost true or close to true , so that was four points , and then uh one false , seven points , so seventeen divided by nine we 're between one and two . i would say that 's ex excellent in terms of uh ho how much we adhere to the ideals of the uh market place . user interface : yeah . and the the only false one is because we 've chosen to keep a simple old technology , marketing : to maintain old technology , exactly . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : which if it works perfectly well i see no point in improving on if it works , marketing : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : absolutely , and it 's kept us within budget . user interface : so . yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so we do count as i think excellent or one . project manager : alright . user interface : . project manager : and we 've therefore we have to do the final questionnaire and do the meeting summary , i have a final report to present , um and then we 're done . marketing : okay . project manager : we done good , and we 're finished in time . user interface : bring on the ice sculptures . marketing : nice . industrial designer : and then we get the product launch party . marketing : so we might have to wait . industrial designer : product launch party ? user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : that 's what i said , ice sculptures . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : absolutely . marketing : um i one thing i want to do is oh , i think the meeting 's done . project manager : i believe that is the end of our meeting . thank you , melissa . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the propotype presentation about the buttons and main features the remote control . </s> project manager : okay , back to this meeting . um we 're down to the prototype presentation . industrial designer : ta-da . user interface : alright . project manager : over to you . industrial designer : right . user interface : well . project manager : ooh , two . user interface : yeah , well you see , each made one , we did n't have enough yellow dough . industrial designer : user interface : this is the one that i made . project manager : uh-huh . user interface : it is uh curved , easy to hold , hand-held , nice and small with big easy buttons . this is like a scroll , but they are push buttons and they enter takes you into the different menus . of course we need someone who 's experienced with the television . i mean this is the infrared thing that 's gon na zap at the television . uh i 'm not quite sure how to make that , but i 'm sure it will work . uh this is on off switch , 'cause i think we do need that , and i think it gives it a nice balance . project manager : 'kay . user interface : and it 's gon na have the logo imprinted on it uh in there . project manager : okay . user interface : um as for what it 's actually made of well the function of these buttons is up , down , left and right in the different menus . project manager : okay . user interface : uh position , i presume that just means right right on it , easy to see . the main feature of it is just a simple design , simple , lack of uh buttons all over the place . right ? form curved , kind of smooth , hand-held , makes it feel nice to hold . uh material , i think kate 's gon na tackle that quite a bit , but i think we have two different options , because we did make a another one , which wa uh is in the shape of banana , it 's just if you can imagine this as yellow with black buttons , like just like this but in the shape of a banana , project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : which is also nice and easy to hold and feels good and has a similar sort of scroll push button technology , just a slightly different design . project manager : user interface : also with on off switch and infrared uh i had envisioned it in hard smooth plastic . so like uh well , i dunno , what 's it like ? i guess like an existing remote control , but molded and smooth . whereas otherwise we 'd thought , like with this one or mix and match , just we were gon na see what you thought , the uh a more spongy rubber cover with spongy buttons . so we have the two options we can follow , either the smooth hard plastic or the spongy rubber , depending on cost restraints . and what we well , what conclusion we reach when we discuss it . uh material yeah , that 's what i have to say about material . can i scroll down on there and see what else industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : well colour , i think i definitely have a preference towards bright yellow with black buttons , because that 's the company colours , but if anybody 's got any other suggestions , i 'm quite willing to consider them as well . so , it just depends what you think about these ideas and if i 'm yeah , maybe , kate , you better say what you think about them . industrial designer : um well i do n't have very much to add . um the the case oops , that 's the uh on off button just come off our prototype . user interface : industrial designer : the the case can be either um spongy rubber or hard plastic . we 're not absolutely sure about a combination of the two , but it can be either of those . we have the technology to do that . um and as for the the actual components um , uh steph just said this is a quite a cheap device to manufacture . we have simple rubber push buttons um which provide all the functionality we need . um the um the diode that actually does the um infrared is at the end , it 's the stalk of the banana , or it 's just the thing at the end of this version . um so that 's for material . colour , well uh steph 's the expert on colour . um we we do n't have any particular restrictions on that . yeah , i think that 's all we 've got to say really . user interface : i thin as for as for the fruit or organic theme , i guess this one is obviously fruit shaped . industrial designer : a banana . user interface : this one has n banana , yeah . this one has no obvious connections to fruit , but because it 's round and molded , it kinda makes you think sort of organic , touchy-feely , kiddie , it 's more like yeah , you 'd expect it to be like a child 's sorta toy remote control instead of a real one , which i quite like that sort of image . 'cause it 's very big and chunky and child-friendly and industrial designer : would you care to examine the prototypes , see how they feel in the hand ? user interface : hold them , you see , you know . curvature , is it to your liking ? project manager : oh i see , the on-off 's in the back . industrial designer : yes , that 's so that your index finger automatically goes straight to it . user interface : if you do n't wan na tire out your thumbs after all . project manager : and then you can use your thumb . industrial designer : and it was partly we thought the design looked better , user interface : yeah . project manager : i could see this thing , unless it 's reinforced , having a problem with the you know user interface : breaking , project manager : yeah . user interface : oh right . well you see , that 's why hard plastic would be quite a good thing for it , because then it 'd just be rigid . marketing : i like the fact that on both of them the keys play such a prominent role . user interface : yeah , we really like we really like that design , marketing : it 's really kind of a user interface : i mean it looks just like a logo , that arrangement of the keys . like a c like a compass point , you know , marketing : mm-hmm mm-hmm . user interface : just up , down , left and right , and we think we could make that quite a good feature . and it 's like the the ipod scroll wheel , but better . marketing : yeah . but it 's also like texting , user interface : yeah . yeah , yeah , marketing : you do n't user interface : i mean it that 's what it makes me think of , mobile phones , marketing : industrial designer : user interface : i was try i was thinking , moving your thumb like this , what does that remind me of ? industrial designer : and it 's a very simple design , marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's texting . industrial designer : there 's not a lot to wrong , the components are cheap to make . marketing : it 's also in terms of um being lost it 's it 's quite it looks quite different . you know , i i d i have several four remotes , and they all look the same until you get up close and you have to user interface : yeah . marketing : you know , this is really identifiable . user interface : i mean the thing is we do need to develop our technology of i mean actually how to program the menus and what sort of , you know , text box is gon na appear at the bottom of the screen , marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : but we do definitely think that it 's a viable option . project manager : okay . the next item is evaluation . marketing : no , okay . project manager : uh if that 's if you 're finished . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about the material of the remote control ? </s> project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : which is also nice and easy to hold and feels good and has a similar sort of scroll push button technology , just a slightly different design . project manager : user interface : also with on off switch and infrared uh i had envisioned it in hard smooth plastic . so like uh well , i dunno , what 's it like ? i guess like an existing remote control , but molded and smooth . whereas otherwise we 'd thought , like with this one or mix and match , just we were gon na see what you thought , the uh a more spongy rubber cover with spongy buttons . so we have the two options we can follow , either the smooth hard plastic or the spongy rubber , depending on cost restraints . and what we well , what conclusion we reach when we discuss it . uh material yeah , that 's what i have to say about material . can i scroll down on there and see what else </s>
<s> why did marketing and industrial designer appreciate the design of keys when talking about the propotype presentation about the buttons and main features of the remote control ? </s> marketing : i like the fact that on both of them the keys play such a prominent role . user interface : yeah , we really like we really like that design , marketing : it 's really kind of a user interface : i mean it looks just like a logo , that arrangement of the keys . like a c like a compass point , you know , marketing : mm-hmm mm-hmm . user interface : just up , down , left and right , and we think we could make that quite a good feature . and it 's like the the ipod scroll wheel , but better . marketing : yeah . but it 's also like texting , user interface : yeah . yeah , yeah , marketing : you do n't user interface : i mean it that 's what it makes me think of , mobile phones , marketing : industrial designer : user interface : i was try i was thinking , moving your thumb like this , what does that remind me of ? industrial designer : and it 's a very simple design , marketing : yeah . user interface : it 's texting . industrial designer : there 's not a lot to wrong , the components are cheap to make . marketing : it 's also in terms of um being lost it 's it 's quite it looks quite different . you know , i i d i have several four remotes , and they all look the same until you get up close and you have to user interface : yeah . marketing : you know , this is really identifiable . user interface : i mean the thing is we do need to develop our technology of i mean actually how to program the menus and what sort of , you know , text box is gon na appear at the bottom of the screen , </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about an interactive evaluation in terms of the user requiremnets and the hot trends . </s> marketing : um industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : shall i take your uh power ? project manager : oh sorry . try again . marketing : okay . this is going to be a heavily interactive evaluation , and the method here is to evaluate the new remote control in terms of the user requirements and the hot trends introduced by the marketing department . so , this means we 're going to go over the priorities that were raised by uh the consumers a as well as incorporate all of our insight into this uh evaluation exercise . so i 'm going to go and use the whiteboard , and i 've made a list of criteria to look at , and so i 'm gon na i 'm gon na leave this up as the last thing , but for the evaluation it 's going to be one is true and seven is false , going over these different criteria , so one true seven false and i 'm gon na now use the um the board . okay . so um fancy , technologically innovative , easy to use , trendy , buttons , excess buttons , good buttons , ugly , sellable , and other . and in fact i hope that uh you all introduce some additional terms , because these are things that um have been brought up , some of them seem rather close , user interface : yeah , what about price , is that gon na go on there as well ? price of materials . marketing : like they overlap . mm , yeah , price . we 'll put price up at the top . user interface : not that we actually know anything about it , industrial designer : user interface : but we can we can pretend . marketing : project manager : well we will soon , unfortunately . marketing : um okay , so project manager : come on . marketing : did you say ? project manager : no , . marketing : uh okay , so wha how do we feel in terms of is this fancy ? user interface : it depends what what you mean by fancy really , 'cause when i think of fancy , i think of it 's got lots of extra sort of fripperies and , you know , like baroque curliness and which marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i 'd call these quite uh minimalist , industrial designer : yes , a plain , simple , clean design . user interface : simple and plain , but i mean i do see what it is heavily reliant on appearance instead of pure functionality , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so in that respect it is quite fancy . marketing : i yeah , so in that respect i think we 'll go with that respect . user interface : i think just maybe we need a different word other than fancy , i 'd say maybe aesthetic . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well we have got s trendy further down , project manager : elegant . industrial designer : but project manager : elegant . marketing : elegant . industrial designer : elegant , i do n't know if i 'd call them elegant . marketing : yeah , no these are n't the exact terms that the um user interface : like stylish or aesthetic . industrial designer : stylish , yeah . marketing : yeah . elegant . we 're gon let 's use elegant , although the the the people , the word on the street is is user interface : fancy . marketing : yeah . n that um user interface : did you just break the pen ? project manager : marketing : yeah uh the uh is fancy . so let 's let 's take it to the next level . user interface : well d we 'll just call it fancy then . marketing : well okay , so in terms of elegant , fancy . we 'll call it e_f_ um , do we do we think that perhaps and maybe we should say the yellow ? should we go with the yellow in terms of i think that 's a really superior user interface : yeah , i think we n we need to marketing : they 're both user interface : they 're both yellow with black buttons , it 's just that we did n't have any more dough to represent uh that , marketing : yeah . user interface : but if you can just imagine banana shape with these bits as black . marketing : yeah . user interface : so what we re really need to decide is whether we want the actual banana shape or just a a purely blob or some sort of abstraction in between the two marketing : yeah . user interface : that is n't that is more curved , like a banana , but that is n't actually recognisable as a banana , you know , with the grooves and the stalk and stuff , marketing : as a banana . i think that many of us are abstract enough to look at the yellow one and say we 'll call it the banana . project manager : yeah . marketing : and of the two i really like i m i like the banana , project manager : the chunk . marketing : but i i do like the chunk . user interface : so that 's maybe not something we have to decide just right now , is it . just somewhere a long the scale of in between these two . marketing : but i mean in terms we have to evaluate one of them . unless do you guys wan na evaluate both ? project manager : i think between the two , somewhere between the two is true . industrial designer : yeah , i 'd project manager : it 's more true than false , about a two . marketing : okay . so we say true . technologically innovative . user interface : industrial designer : i d i do n't think that 's what we 're aiming at with this concept . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i think we 're using simple components that are gon na be robust but not particularly innovative . marketing : so we 'll say we 'll say uh false . easy to use . industrial designer : very . marketing : one , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : is that inappropriate ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . oh , pardon me . um project manager : trendy . user interface : oh yes . marketing : trendy , s and i say specifically spongy fruity . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : well , maybe only a two or a three then , 'cause it 's no we still have n't decided about specific sponginess or specific industrial designer : we have the worry about how robust it will be if it 's it 's curved as a banana but spongy . i think user interface : yeah , i do n't really think that 's gon na work , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but marketing : okay , so two ? um industrial designer : yeah . project manager : excess buttons . marketing : are there excess buttons ? that is false . industrial designer : so that 's false . marketing : um good , well designed buttons , intuitive buttons . project manager : better , more intuitive buttons , yes . marketing : true . ugly . user interface : no . marketing : people do n't respond well to ugly . sellable , uh quirky , you know , something people industrial designer : yeah , i think they 're different , are n't they ? user interface : well it is quite it is quite quirky i think . marketing : like oh , project manager : i like it . marketing : yeah . yeah , i do too . user interface : it could be quite a good brand , like a good little object . marketing : oh yeah . and i was i was thinking of other things um in terms of uh could we say it 's cost saving ? with the user interface : oh , we also need tho think about the energy . is it the kinetic energy ? marketing : yeah , with the energy . industrial designer : mm . user interface : if it 's it is gon na be environmentally friendly with the kinetic energy . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it is going to be kinetic ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : we 'll c we 'll say it 's a cost saving enviro . yeah , uh so yes . user interface : yeah , but we have n't completely developed that side of it yet , so we 're not completely sure about that , marketing : well user interface : but yeah . marketing : you 're still in the play-doh stage . user interface : yeah . marketing : anything else ? including price , do you have any idea about price or other features ? industrial designer : well i think our instinct is that it should be pretty cheap to develop . we have n't got a lot of expensive components in there . project manager : yes , the instinct says true . marketing : okay . so true one or should i go to two or three ? industrial designer : i 'd put it at one i think , but i dunno , what do you user interface : i would say maybe a two , marketing : okay . user interface : 'cause we still we need to uh get somebody in who is good with the programming for the menus and things . industrial designer : yeah , true , user interface : i mean it 's not just like i mean it 's not like ev you know , on a normal chunky remote every button res i mean means something different , project manager : yeah , that 's not a cheap thing to get . industrial designer : it might be the yeah , yeah , true . true . user interface : whereas this one has only got the four buttons and they all they mean everything , depending on what menu you 're in . industrial designer : yeah , that 's a good point . user interface : uh we need somebody to develop that . marketing : um other ? anything else you guys can thing of ? and i 'm gon na actually change a couple of these so then i 'm gon na instead of ugly i 'm gon na say it 's attractive and then make that true , so that user interface : yeah . marketing : 'cause i have to do an average . industrial designer : right . marketing : and then um excess buttons . user interface : just putting no excess buttons . marketing : exactly . wow we 're doing really well . yeah , be you know , user interface : as for marketing : so it does n't ruin the polarity . user interface : see if we 're technologically innovative , i 'd say it is quite innovative , because there are n't really many that have this menu idea instead of all the extra buttons . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean i know we 're not doing anything involving internet or speech recognition but but we are at the upper end of the push button market . marketing : or lcd . yeah . well if you g uh let me know if if any of these um if you if you all can think of any other um thing to change here if you th if you think i should change the innovative or add other features . if not i 'll average those . project manager : i think we 're good . marketing : okay . mm . project manager : okay . we 're a little over halfway through the meeting </s>
<s> what did the group think about the deisgn when talking about the evaluation of the remote control ? </s> marketing : uh okay , so wha how do we feel in terms of is this fancy ? user interface : it depends what what you mean by fancy really , 'cause when i think of fancy , i think of it 's got lots of extra sort of fripperies and , you know , like baroque curliness and which marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i 'd call these quite uh minimalist , industrial designer : yes , a plain , simple , clean design . user interface : simple and plain , but i mean i do see what it is heavily reliant on appearance instead of pure functionality , marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : so in that respect it is quite fancy . marketing : i yeah , so in that respect i think we 'll go with that respect . user interface : i think just maybe we need a different word other than fancy , i 'd say maybe aesthetic . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well we have got s trendy further down , project manager : elegant . industrial designer : but project manager : elegant . marketing : elegant . industrial designer : elegant , i do n't know if i 'd call them elegant . marketing : yeah , no these are n't the exact terms that the um user interface : like stylish or aesthetic . industrial designer : stylish , yeah . marketing : yeah . elegant . we 're gon let 's use elegant , although the the the people , the word on the street is is user interface : fancy . marketing : yeah . n that um user interface : did you just break the pen ? project manager : marketing : yeah uh the uh is fancy . so let 's let 's take it to the next level . </s>
<s> why did user interface disagree with industrial designer with the price when talking about the interactive evaluation in terms of the user requiremnets and the hot trends ? </s> marketing : anything else ? including price , do you have any idea about price or other features ? industrial designer : well i think our instinct is that it should be pretty cheap to develop . we have n't got a lot of expensive components in there . project manager : yes , the instinct says true . marketing : okay . so true one or should i go to two or three ? industrial designer : i 'd put it at one i think , but i dunno , what do you user interface : i would say maybe a two , marketing : okay . user interface : 'cause we still we need to uh get somebody in who is good with the programming for the menus and things . industrial designer : yeah , true , user interface : i mean it 's not just like i mean it 's not like ev you know , on a normal chunky remote every button res i mean means something different , project manager : yeah , that 's not a cheap thing to get . industrial designer : it might be the yeah , yeah , true . true . user interface : whereas this one has only got the four buttons and they all they mean everything , depending on what menu you 're in . industrial designer : yeah , that 's a good point . user interface : uh we need somebody to develop that . marketing : um other ? anything else you guys can thing of ? and i 'm gon na actually change a couple of these so then i 'm gon na instead of ugly i 'm gon na say it 's attractive and then make that true , so that user interface : yeah . marketing : 'cause i have to do an average . industrial designer : right . marketing : and then um excess buttons . user interface : just putting no excess buttons . marketing : exactly . wow we 're doing really well . yeah , be you know , user interface : as for marketing : so it does n't ruin the polarity . user interface : see if we 're technologically innovative , i 'd say it is quite innovative , because there are n't really many that have this menu idea instead of all the extra buttons . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean i know we 're not doing anything involving internet or speech recognition but but we are at the upper end of the push button market . marketing : or lcd . yeah . well if you g uh let me know if if any of these um if you if you all can think of any other um thing to change here if you th if you think i should change the innovative or add other features . if not i 'll average those . project manager : i think we 're good . marketing : okay . mm . project manager : okay . we 're a little over halfway through the meeting </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : industrial designer : project manager : right well . welcome to the what should be the last of these meetings and uh it looks like we 've uh done a good job here and uh we 'll just go through the the final uh the final details . um okay , oh the um th the the minutes of the last meeting uh i think we 'll take those as read , um okay industrial designer : project manager : the um th the the next uh thing we we we 'll have a look at the uh th have a look at the prototypes and uh look at the uh evaluation criteria and finance and then uh uh just tidy up with production and um and then we can close . um so f if if you 'd like to uh present your your proposals . industrial designer : uh okay we basically have the same kinda lay-out here it 's just um you hold it like this and it gets kinda moulded to the to the shape of your hand , basically . um on the left we 've got the scroll for the volume , on the right we have buttons for the channels up and down and that kinda so you can hold it and scroll , or you can hold it and and push . project manager : industrial designer : uh this is the power key , um it 's kinda like the biggest so you know how to turn on . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : uh that 's the little menu key . this is the infra-red section so you g it 'll be sending rays and if you 're you know pointing it like that it can send it , or if you hold it up like that it 'll send it . project manager : yeah , good , good . industrial designer : uh we got a microphone there which for all the voice commands project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : so you can you know talk to it like that and it 'll still understand . project manager : right . industrial designer : um the logo is down down there um project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : and has the cover on it and you can see like it just kinda goes the red bit 's the cover and it kinda goes over everything project manager : yep , yep , industrial designer : and then there 's holes for the buttons to come through . um . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and so we figured it would be kind of you know a light weight plastic , project manager : uh-huh . user interface : just kind of a light non-descript grey project manager : yep yep . user interface : so that people 'll wan na buy the covers and then the covers will be that sort of rubbery material like they make ipod covers , project manager : showing me age , user interface : so they kinda just stretch over . project manager : i do n't know what i c ipod covers are like . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , well project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : i i did n't know that but yeah they 're kind of it 's just kind of a rubbery project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and that way you know project manager : okay , user interface : spongy like is something that people wanted project manager : yep , right . user interface : and it just sort of stretches over industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and that way i think probably helps protect it a little bit too as well project manager : okay . industrial designer : but it 's also e e easier to put on versus like mobile covers user interface : and industrial designer : you actually have to screw them on and stuff and you kinda sometimes have to get someone to do that for you . this is very much you should be able to stretch it over yourself user interface : just kinda stretch it over industrial designer : and it 'll be fine . project manager : okay , good yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it 'll just stay on industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then the buttons come through and so and then the each one of 'em on the very end will have the logo with the yellow circle and the r_r_ . project manager : yep , right . industrial designer : li that 'll be the covers as well , yeah yeah . project manager : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i mean tha it 's it 's a detailed point , i just wondered i mean h how will people put these down i wonder ? user interface : like that . project manager : right . okay for some strange re reason i had it in my mind that they 'd put them down vertically industrial designer : yeah it could stand , yeah . project manager : but uh uh user interface : oh . industrial designer : well we could broaden the broaden it out a bit project manager : yeah , uh no industrial designer : so it would stand like that . project manager : because particularly if they 've dif if they 're gon na have it as a you know as a fashion item industrial designer : yeah , standing . project manager : uh i mean it it 's uh it it 's just i mean it 's just a minor detailed point , but um as you say you can just make the base a little bit bigger and uh industrial designer : yeah , we could just widen it out uh project manager : yeah and uh it just needs another uh another logo somewhere is is is is all it gives gives people the option and if if say if they 've got them um industrial designer : mm . mm . project manager : because actually have several upon the uh marketing : could have one for your stereo , one for your d_v_ player . industrial designer : mm , yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah , well . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : have to if we just lengthen it i guess project manager : yeah industrial designer : so it comes down to the base of the hand user interface : yeah , project manager : but that that 's uh but uh user interface : just kind of industrial designer : and then flatten it out and could sit there . project manager : the the the overall uh the overall concept is uh industrial designer : yeah , mm . user interface : or just make it little . project manager : yeah yeah , industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : somewhere like that project manager : no no , i mean that 's these uh user interface : so it just sort of industrial designer : we might have to lengthen it marketing : yeah i kinda had a a kinda a natural kind of a idea industrial designer : so it kinda your hand still holds it and have it there , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , yeah like that , like that . yeah . marketing : where it 's like more of a kind of like a kinda maybe slightly like thinner , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , kinda like that kinda like a flower or a plant project manager : but uh yeah but no th but the yeah the the the marketing : for the more natural kinda user interface : . project manager : yeah , yeah , yeah , industrial designer : the final product would actually stand up , yeah . project manager : i mean it it 's uh would n't user interface : fall over . project manager : would n't do that , indeed yeah . but th th but th yeah th b the user interface : yeah . project manager : these were all minor minor uh minor details , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think the uh the basic concept i i is is absolutely bang on industrial designer : yeah . user interface : . 's a little longer . project manager : and the i industrial designer : wee project manager : it certainly meets our criteria of being uh of you know looking different . um , so user interface : yeah . project manager : good that 's that that 's excellent . industrial designer : project manager : um right let us um what 's on the next one ? oh right yes , let 's have a look at the um f finance . um , now we 're given a a clear design brief , uh if i get the uh spreadsheet up . oh . marketing : uh yeah , just click there . project manager : . marketing : uh the the maximise button . project manager : oh right . ah . good , this is why we need to make these things simple so that the uh the the the boss can understand . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : now i 've um this is the company 's uh uh costing for for various uh uh aspects of design and i i i 've treated some of these slightly uh liberally given the constraints placed on us , um i would n't know for in for instance if if they require us to have it in the corporate colours , then that is not a special colour , that 's a that 's a standard colour . uh , so we 're just simply on batteries , the the one th the one decision i 've had to make is that um we 're we will have to find a s a regular standard chip to to do this with and i i um i 'm i 'm i 'm certain that they they are around so , um that i do n't think is a a serious problem . the uh the the voice sensor is is expensive but we we made a a basic decision that that was absolutely fundamental to the to the design so that that has to stay . um then again the the the the shape of the case means that it 's it 's expensive to uh um l to make 'cause of the the th the double curves but on the other hand because of our overall fashion concept um we we should exceed the the sales targets . um it 's simply made of plastic so th that 's uh that 's no problem and uh um just because the whole the colour of the the whole thing that 's uh uh there 's some cost there . um and uh we have n't actually got a scroll wheel we we we got push buttons and and a simple uh um slider so um and the and the the buttons are uh uh well i do do n't know that they 're special colour . anyway the the costings uh come in at exactly on target at twelve point five uh but i thi i think we have a a very strong case to argue that uh what what we 've got is is so in innovative and uh and different that um any any slight compromise we have to make on on cost is is offset by the uh you know the uh you know the the the the concept of it being a a fashion accessory and and having the the interchangeable covers so uh um you know the if if if the management expect us to be techno again fail again technologically innovative um that they they have to accept that we we ca n't operate absolutely within uh the constraints that they give , so uh we we we present this as the uh the company 's uh the the company 's way forward and uh uh i i think we can argue that we we have uh come in on on budget . um . okay , uh . so um . does anybody want to uh uh andrew do you want what do you want to say about um the uh yeah the evaluation marketing : evaluation . project manager : where where you know well where where we 're where where we 're at ? marketing : the the product or the project ? project manager : the the the well the i meant the product . marketing : um , well well my presentation just now ? project manager : yeah . marketing : sure , uh can i get the project manager : oh sorry yeah um , mm . industrial designer : project manager : mm . more loud clicks in the microphone . marketing : cheers . there we go , oh . method of evaluation testing the product was to just if it met all the criteria all the conditions that we set out to set out to solve , from the point of view of the the consumer and the management . so what i 've been asked to do is , on the whiteboard project manager : marketing : um gauge our team response to these questions . so , on a scale of one to seven , one being true and seven being being false . project manager : seven being a nice round number to work to . marketing : yeah . and then at the end just take an average project manager : tr on for true and seven for flase . yes . industrial designer : marketing : yes . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : so uh . so , look at these questions . is the device f flashy and fashionable ? project manager : well i think most definitely . industrial designer : yeah i 'd say definitely a one yeah . user interface : i think it is yeah . marketing : so uh and also uh technologically innovative ? project manager : yes the voice technology indeed . industrial designer : yeah , defi yeah , yeah user interface : yeah . marketing : easy to use ? project manager : i do n't see we could 've made it any easier . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : uh suitable for the consumer ? that was um project manager : totally . industrial designer : yeah definitely . user interface : yeah i think it made we met all of the consumer industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : wants . marketing : uh is it complicated ? doing pretty well so far are n't we ? uh functional ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah definitely . user interface : yeah . marketing : um . where are we ? project manager : found easily . yeah marketing : we 've b built in the the speech , where are you , function . project manager : i mean that 's that 's industrial designer : yeah . yeah . yeah , mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh-huh . industrial designer : project manager : does it take long to learn to use ? should n't . industrial designer : no , not at all . marketing : mm-hmm . and uh , what else ? the r_s_i_ compares to the current standards , project manager : less buttons so it must be . industrial designer : uh marketing : well . we we uh yeah it was our it was a industrial designer : it is sorta the the handle more ergonomically correct as well . marketing : we made an actual effort to industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so yeah , um um . marketing : um will device appeal to all age groups ? project manager : i think it will because i mean uh old older people who ca n't manage the buttons anyway will actually probably like the like like the voice bit so user interface : i think so . marketing : yeah , uh that 's a good call , yeah . well we had the we had the data saying that old people will be less likely to pay extra money but the funct the increased functionality , the e ease of use of the device might make up for that . project manager : and it 's it 's it 's well i do n't think we 're actually charging a particular premium anyway , in the end , so industrial designer : i i i think it will tend to appeal more to younger aged groups user interface : yeah . industrial designer : just 'cause we have gone with the fashion focus project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and the younger people tend to would be more conscious of that aspect of it , but um i think it should still appeal on a certain level to everybody , yeah . project manager : it will appeal f for dif for different reasons but it 's it 's uh industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah i think just the simplicity of it project manager : yeah yeah industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : so i i yeah i user interface : not having to learn to programme industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and not having you know a million buttons . project manager : yeah , so i think we can reasonably say it 's another another one , marketing : project manager : why not ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : uh can you just click the my mouse to move onto next page ? uh , yeah and what h did we make the management 's project manager : in in in in my interpretation of management 's instructions uh is that yes it it meets the requirement industrial designer : project manager : is t it 's television only , it 's it 's simple to use , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um it 's it 's it 's within budget , user interface : under the cost . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yep . project manager : um i it 's uh yes an an any minor points we we we argue . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : so uh i i think we 've done an amazing job industrial designer : well done us . user interface : marketing : okay . project manager : coming up with what marketing : so uh one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven . eleven divided by eleven 's one so equals average of one . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , . project manager : need a need a calculator for that . marketing : and that roughly concludes my evaluation of the of the product . project manager : okay , industrial designer : excellent . project manager : nick the cable back then . industrial designer : oh no user interface : i mixed up the colours a little bit . industrial designer : that 's user interface : i think i all wrong . project manager : ooh . right do um either of you want to uh say anything ? before i uh industrial designer : user interface : ps i do n't think so , industrial designer : . user interface : i mean i think we worked well together project manager : yeah . user interface : and looked really at what the consumers wanted and what we were trying to make project manager : yeah . user interface : and you know , seemed to discuss things pretty well industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and come to group consensus and project manager : well that 's right , i mean th this this slide here i mean the satisfaction with uh room for creativity , i mean industrial designer : mm . yeah , definitely . project manager : i think we 've allowed ourselves uh as much creativity as the uh the the the product uh allows . user interface : yeah . project manager : um i wo n't comment on leadership , uh teamwork i think we 've uh i think everybody 's uh worked pretty well together . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um we 've just about coped with the whiteboard and digital pens , uh i think the results speak for itself and new ideas found , um , again gi no given relatively everyday product , i think we 've v very uh very effectively come up with a a new uh user interface : yeah . project manager : uh a new approach . um are the costs within budget ? yes . is the project evaluated ? we 're we 're all happy that it it meets all the criteria , um thank you very much indeed , i think that i think that 's uh industrial designer : cool , thank you , user interface : alright . project manager : i think we can go f for an early bath . user interface : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : user interface : marketing : project manager : so i call the meeting closed . user interface : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about remote control prototype . </s> industrial designer : uh okay we basically have the same kinda lay-out here it 's just um you hold it like this and it gets kinda moulded to the to the shape of your hand , basically . um on the left we 've got the scroll for the volume , on the right we have buttons for the channels up and down and that kinda so you can hold it and scroll , or you can hold it and and push . project manager : industrial designer : uh this is the power key , um it 's kinda like the biggest so you know how to turn on . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : uh that 's the little menu key . this is the infra-red section so you g it 'll be sending rays and if you 're you know pointing it like that it can send it , or if you hold it up like that it 'll send it . project manager : yeah , good , good . industrial designer : uh we got a microphone there which for all the voice commands project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : so you can you know talk to it like that and it 'll still understand . project manager : right . industrial designer : um the logo is down down there um project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : and has the cover on it and you can see like it just kinda goes the red bit 's the cover and it kinda goes over everything project manager : yep , yep , industrial designer : and then there 's holes for the buttons to come through . um . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : and so we figured it would be kind of you know a light weight plastic , project manager : uh-huh . user interface : just kind of a light non-descript grey project manager : yep yep . user interface : so that people 'll wan na buy the covers and then the covers will be that sort of rubbery material like they make ipod covers , project manager : showing me age , user interface : so they kinda just stretch over . project manager : i do n't know what i c ipod covers are like . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , well project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : i i did n't know that but yeah they 're kind of it 's just kind of a rubbery project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and that way you know project manager : okay , user interface : spongy like is something that people wanted project manager : yep , right . user interface : and it just sort of stretches over industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and that way i think probably helps protect it a little bit too as well project manager : okay . industrial designer : but it 's also e e easier to put on versus like mobile covers user interface : and industrial designer : you actually have to screw them on and stuff and you kinda sometimes have to get someone to do that for you . this is very much you should be able to stretch it over yourself user interface : just kinda stretch it over industrial designer : and it 'll be fine . project manager : okay , good yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it 'll just stay on industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then the buttons come through and so and then the each one of 'em on the very end will have the logo with the yellow circle and the r_r_ . project manager : yep , right . industrial designer : li that 'll be the covers as well , yeah yeah . project manager : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i mean tha it 's it 's a detailed point , i just wondered i mean h how will people put these down i wonder ? user interface : like that . project manager : right . okay for some strange re reason i had it in my mind that they 'd put them down vertically industrial designer : yeah it could stand , yeah . project manager : but uh uh user interface : oh . industrial designer : well we could broaden the broaden it out a bit project manager : yeah , uh no industrial designer : so it would stand like that . project manager : because particularly if they 've dif if they 're gon na have it as a you know as a fashion item industrial designer : yeah , standing . project manager : uh i mean it it 's uh it it 's just i mean it 's just a minor detailed point , but um as you say you can just make the base a little bit bigger and uh industrial designer : yeah , we could just widen it out uh project manager : yeah and uh it just needs another uh another logo somewhere is is is is all it gives gives people the option and if if say if they 've got them um industrial designer : mm . mm . project manager : because actually have several upon the uh marketing : could have one for your stereo , one for your d_v_ player . industrial designer : mm , yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah , well . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : have to if we just lengthen it i guess project manager : yeah industrial designer : so it comes down to the base of the hand user interface : yeah , project manager : but that that 's uh but uh user interface : just kind of industrial designer : and then flatten it out and could sit there . project manager : the the the overall uh the overall concept is uh industrial designer : yeah , mm . user interface : or just make it little . project manager : yeah yeah , industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : somewhere like that project manager : no no , i mean that 's these uh user interface : so it just sort of industrial designer : we might have to lengthen it marketing : yeah i kinda had a a kinda a natural kind of a idea industrial designer : so it kinda your hand still holds it and have it there , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , yeah like that , like that . yeah . marketing : where it 's like more of a kind of like a kinda maybe slightly like thinner , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , kinda like that kinda like a flower or a plant project manager : but uh yeah but no th but the yeah the the the marketing : for the more natural kinda user interface : . project manager : yeah , yeah , yeah , industrial designer : the final product would actually stand up , yeah . project manager : i mean it it 's uh would n't user interface : fall over . project manager : would n't do that , indeed yeah . but th th but th yeah th b the user interface : yeah . project manager : these were all minor minor uh minor details , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think the uh the basic concept i i is is absolutely bang on industrial designer : yeah . user interface : . 's a little longer . project manager : and the i industrial designer : wee project manager : it certainly meets our criteria of being uh of you know looking different . um , so user interface : yeah . project manager : good that 's that that 's excellent . </s>
<s> what did the group think about the cover when discussing remote control prototype ? </s> user interface : and then the covers will be that sort of rubbery material like they make ipod covers , project manager : showing me age , user interface : so they kinda just stretch over . project manager : i do n't know what i c ipod covers are like . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , well project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : i i did n't know that but yeah they 're kind of it 's just kind of a rubbery project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and that way you know project manager : okay , user interface : spongy like is something that people wanted project manager : yep , right . user interface : and it just sort of stretches over industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and that way i think probably helps protect it a little bit too as well project manager : okay . industrial designer : but it 's also e e easier to put on versus like mobile covers user interface : and industrial designer : you actually have to screw them on and stuff and you kinda sometimes have to get someone to do that for you . this is very much you should be able to stretch it over yourself user interface : just kinda stretch it over industrial designer : and it 'll be fine . project manager : okay , good yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it 'll just stay on industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then the buttons come through and so and then the each one of 'em on the very end will have the logo with the yellow circle and the r_r_ . project manager : yep , right . industrial designer : li that 'll be the covers as well , yeah yeah . project manager : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i mean tha it 's it 's a detailed point , i just wondered i mean h how will people put these down i wonder ? user interface : like that . project manager : right . okay for some strange re reason i had it in my mind that they 'd put them down vertically industrial designer : yeah it could stand , yeah . project manager : but uh uh user interface : oh . industrial designer : well we could broaden the broaden it out a bit project manager : yeah , uh no industrial designer : so it would stand like that . project manager : because particularly if they 've dif if they 're gon na have it as a you know as a fashion item industrial designer : yeah , standing . project manager : uh i mean it it 's uh it it 's just i mean it 's just a minor detailed point , but um as you say you can just make the base a little bit bigger and uh </s>
<s> what details did industrial designer give when introducing remote control prototype ? </s> industrial designer : uh okay we basically have the same kinda lay-out here it 's just um you hold it like this and it gets kinda moulded to the to the shape of your hand , basically . um on the left we 've got the scroll for the volume , on the right we have buttons for the channels up and down and that kinda so you can hold it and scroll , or you can hold it and and push . project manager : industrial designer : uh this is the power key , um it 's kinda like the biggest so you know how to turn on . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : uh that 's the little menu key . this is the infra-red section so you g it 'll be sending rays and if you 're you know pointing it like that it can send it , or if you hold it up like that it 'll send it . project manager : yeah , good , good . industrial designer : uh we got a microphone there which for all the voice commands project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : so you can you know talk to it like that and it 'll still understand . project manager : right . industrial designer : um the logo is down down there um project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : and has the cover on it and you can see like it just kinda goes the red bit 's the cover and it kinda goes over everything project manager : yep , yep , </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about evaluation criteria of remote control ? </s> marketing : cheers . there we go , oh . method of evaluation testing the product was to just if it met all the criteria all the conditions that we set out to set out to solve , from the point of view of the the consumer and the management . so what i 've been asked to do is , on the whiteboard project manager : marketing : um gauge our team response to these questions . so , on a scale of one to seven , one being true and seven being being false . project manager : seven being a nice round number to work to . marketing : yeah . and then at the end just take an average project manager : tr on for true and seven for flase . yes . industrial designer : marketing : yes . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : so uh . so , look at these questions . is the device f flashy and fashionable ? project manager : well i think most definitely . industrial designer : yeah i 'd say definitely a one yeah . user interface : i think it is yeah . marketing : so uh and also uh technologically innovative ? project manager : yes the voice technology indeed . industrial designer : yeah , defi yeah , yeah user interface : yeah . marketing : easy to use ? project manager : i do n't see we could 've made it any easier . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : uh suitable for the consumer ? that was um project manager : totally . industrial designer : yeah definitely . user interface : yeah i think it made we met all of the consumer industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : wants . marketing : uh is it complicated ? doing pretty well so far are n't we ? uh functional ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah definitely . user interface : yeah . marketing : um . where are we ? project manager : found easily . yeah marketing : we 've b built in the the speech , where are you , function . project manager : i mean that 's that 's industrial designer : yeah . yeah . yeah , mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh-huh . industrial designer : project manager : does it take long to learn to use ? should n't . industrial designer : no , not at all . marketing : mm-hmm . and uh , what else ? the r_s_i_ compares to the current standards , project manager : less buttons so it must be . industrial designer : uh marketing : well . we we uh yeah it was our it was a industrial designer : it is sorta the the handle more ergonomically correct as well . marketing : we made an actual effort to industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : so yeah , um um . marketing : um will device appeal to all age groups ? project manager : i think it will because i mean uh old older people who ca n't manage the buttons anyway will actually probably like the like like the voice bit so user interface : i think so . marketing : yeah , uh that 's a good call , yeah . well we had the we had the data saying that old people will be less likely to pay extra money but the funct the increased functionality , the e ease of use of the device might make up for that . project manager : and it 's it 's it 's well i do n't think we 're actually charging a particular premium anyway , in the end , so industrial designer : i i i think it will tend to appeal more to younger aged groups user interface : yeah . industrial designer : just 'cause we have gone with the fashion focus project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and the younger people tend to would be more conscious of that aspect of it , but um i think it should still appeal on a certain level to everybody , yeah . project manager : it will appeal f for dif for different reasons but it 's it 's uh industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah i think just the simplicity of it project manager : yeah yeah industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : so i i yeah i user interface : not having to learn to programme industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and not having you know a million buttons . project manager : yeah , so i think we can reasonably say it 's another another one , marketing : project manager : why not ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : uh can you just click the my mouse to move onto next page ? uh , yeah and what h did we make the management 's project manager : in in in in my interpretation of management 's instructions uh is that yes it it meets the requirement industrial designer : project manager : is t it 's television only , it 's it 's simple to use , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um it 's it 's it 's within budget , user interface : under the cost . industrial designer : mm-hmm . yep . project manager : um i it 's uh yes an an any minor points we we we argue . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : so uh i i think we 've done an amazing job industrial designer : well done us . user interface : marketing : okay . project manager : coming up with what marketing : so uh one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven . eleven divided by eleven 's one so equals average of one . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , . project manager : need a need a calculator for that . marketing : and that roughly concludes my evaluation of the of the product . project manager : okay , industrial designer : excellent . project manager : nick the cable back then . industrial designer : oh no user interface : i mixed up the colours a little bit . industrial designer : that 's user interface : i think i all wrong . project manager : ooh . right do um either of you want to uh say anything ? before i uh industrial designer : user interface : ps i do n't think so , </s>
<s> what age groups did the team think would the device appeal to when discussing evaluation criteria of remote control ? </s> marketing : um will device appeal to all age groups ? project manager : i think it will because i mean uh old older people who ca n't manage the buttons anyway will actually probably like the like like the voice bit so user interface : i think so . marketing : yeah , uh that 's a good call , yeah . well we had the we had the data saying that old people will be less likely to pay extra money but the funct the increased functionality , the e ease of use of the device might make up for that . project manager : and it 's it 's it 's well i do n't think we 're actually charging a particular premium anyway , in the end , so industrial designer : i i i think it will tend to appeal more to younger aged groups user interface : yeah . industrial designer : just 'cause we have gone with the fashion focus project manager : yeah . yeah . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think about the remote control in the discussion of its evaluation criteria ? </s> marketing : so uh . so , look at these questions . is the device f flashy and fashionable ? project manager : well i think most definitely . industrial designer : yeah i 'd say definitely a one yeah . user interface : i think it is yeah . marketing : so uh and also uh technologically innovative ? project manager : yes the voice technology indeed . industrial designer : yeah , defi yeah , yeah user interface : yeah . marketing : easy to use ? project manager : i do n't see we could 've made it any easier . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : uh suitable for the consumer ? that was um project manager : totally . industrial designer : yeah definitely . user interface : yeah i think it made we met all of the consumer industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : wants . marketing : uh is it complicated ? doing pretty well so far are n't we ? uh functional ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah definitely . user interface : yeah . marketing : um . where are we ? project manager : found easily . yeah marketing : we 've b built in the the speech , where are you , function . project manager : i mean that 's that 's industrial designer : yeah . yeah . yeah , mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh-huh . industrial designer : project manager : does it take long to learn to use ? should n't . industrial designer : no , not at all . marketing : mm-hmm . and uh , what else ? the r_s_i_ compares to the current standards , project manager : less buttons so it must be . industrial designer : uh marketing : well . we we uh yeah it was our it was a </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : so um nice to see you again . uh . so , uh . tod uh for this meeting i will take the notes and do the minutes . uh so we will see our three presentations . um we will start with the uh manager expert wi who will talk about uh user re requirements , whats user needs and what it desire for this devi device . marketing : okay , can i have the laptop over here , or ? project manager : yep . oh , i do n't think so . i think you have to come here . marketing : okay . have to get up . project manager : i dunno . i think it should stay . marketing : excuse me . industrial designer : yeah , that 's it . marketing : okay . project manager : should stay in the square here . marketing : okay . project manager : oh , maybe . marketing : okay , so basically i 'm gon na present some findings of a study we conducted uh into uh what users want in this remote control . project manager : oh , you can put it here . oh that 's okay , it 's jus marketing : um so first of all we what we did is we um conducted a an experiment with a hundred test subjects . um we put them in a in our um usability laboratory and got them to , you know , um play with remote controls , and also to complete , after they 'd done that , to complete a questionnaire uh to tell us what they like and what they do n't like in remote controls . so basically um the major things we found out was that um basically users do n't like the look and feel of of most remote controls that are currently on the market . um they , you know , seventy five percent of the people we we uh did the experiments on , found that rem remote the remote controls that they 'd used in the past were ugly . completely ugly . um they they did n't match the operating behaviour of the user , that is , you know , the the way users use remote controls when they 're watching tv . um , that the layout of the remote controls did n't match they way that they used it . um and thirdly they say that w half of the users that we um tested said that they only used ten percent of the buttons that uh are on remote controls . um so we collect we also some collected some usage statistics uh based on how these test subjects were using their remote control . and from this we basically came up with the figure that the channel buttons , the channel selection buttons are the most by far the most used buttons on the remote control . um and you can see they 're used a hundred and sixty eight times per hour on average , um , while the user 's watching tv . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : um the closest button that was used , well the cl the button that was used that was closest to the channel button was the teletext button , um which was used fourteen times per hour , followed by the volume button , which was four times per hour , um , all the other , all the other um buttons , such as ch um audio and picture selection um configuration buttons and things were used , you know , l approx well less than or equal to one times per hour . um we also asked users um which buttons had the most importance to them , you know , which which buttons they felt were the most important buttons on on the remote control . and basically they came they said the channel , volume , and power buttons had the highest relevance to users , um note that only power was very infrequently used , it only had a b a a fr usage frequency of about one times per hour , but users ranked it as having a very very high relevance . um and the audio and picture settings had a very that well the users thought that um w the audio and picture settings were very uh were n't very important to them um , and they used them very infrequently a as well . so we asked users what what um frustrates them the most about um current remote controls . and fifty percent of the users said that uh what frustrates them is losing the remote control um somewhere in the room and not being able to find it . um they also said that it um it takes a lot of time to learn a new remote control , especially when there 's many buttons and it 's a , you know , a c a a unintuitive interface . um and then thirdly , they some users commented on the fact that the the you know the way that you have to hold and press buttons on a remote control ar are bad and um cause u repetitive strain injury . we also asked some users about some specific features that they 'd like to see in the on the remote control . in particular , do they want an lcd d display , and secondly , do they think speech recognition uh is a useful feature to have on a remote control . project manager : marketing : um basically our findings are that um amongst a younger age groups uh the answer is umv overwhelmingly yes . they want these features , they want these high technology features . industrial designer : marketing : um for instance , ninety one percent of pe of people aged between fifteen and twenty five said yes , they want these features . whereas um the the trend was as users as users um became older and older uh they were less likely to want these sort of features in a um in a remote control . so i guess it depends on where we 're focusing our our market . um and as our company motto is putting fashion in electronics , um i think we 're focusing on the younger younger um target demographic , and so maybe we should think about adding these sort of high technology features into our remote control . that 's my dic that 's my presentation . thank you . project manager : thank you . industrial designer : user interface : okay . project manager : so , um maybe now we can talk about a user interface and uh about the technical function of this device . so uh pet peter , can you talk say something about that ? industrial designer : well , okay , yeah . yeah , but the user user interface is responsible . user interface : b you think uh i i 'm user interface manager . industrial designer : okay , so . marketing : project manager : sorry , i 'm sorry . sorry . user interface : okay . okay . if i could go there with this cable . industrial designer : you 're scaring me with lcd man . and speech recognition in remote unit , it will be very e expensive . marketing : yeah , it 's true , but , you know , they 're features that users want , industrial designer : marketing : so it 's industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and our production cost of twelve fifty euros per per unit is fairly high i think , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so i think we can afford to to add these sort of features into our remote . industrial designer : at least we have couple of months t to work on it so so it will be cheaper finally . user interface : sh okay . marketing : it is true . user interface : where 's delete button ? okay . oh i 'm sorry . industrial designer : user interface : okay . marketing : that 's the wrong one , i think . project manager : yeah , it 's still bob morris . user interface : oh . presentation three ? project manager : yeah you should have put yes . industrial designer : because you cancelled it . yeah . project manager : click on yes . user interface : oh . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay , so here is my presentation about technical function design . i will talk about different components and s of system and how they react together . okay , uh , first what is a remote control ? simply it 's a device , as you know , for uh , for sending some commands by some waves to uh another device to to tell different commands uh with this device . and the main idea we do n't use any cable and we can rec react simpler with the device . uh i it has different blocks , different blocks . uh first is remote control have sh ha should have some electric circuits uh making interface with uh keyboard and uh r reading uh keyboard and reading the keyboard uh commands . and then inter then make uh these keyboard commands , uh in interpret these int uh keyboard commands . and then there should be uh an electronic circuit making uh electronic signals according to these commands and uh finally there is a transmitter which is a cord or a a diode making uh making uh waves to transmit through the air and uh uh this air this uh wave uh will be received by the by the other device like a television or whatever , to uh r to realise the command . okay , uh about what i found about uh different uh these different blocks are uh , usually there are two different methods uh to for designing a remote control . they are based on infra-red uh waves or uh uh radio waves . industrial designer : you still want me the presentation . user interface : there are two different uh uh solutions i mean . this is uh this can be uh uh the the differences the th between different kind of waves , infra-red or radio waves . and uh also as uh i understood , and uh i think it was a part of uh bob , uh uh presentation , people prefer to have uh to have uh the remote control with less button . so for the electronic part , working and interfacing , with button , we should we should try to t try to design a remote control having uh some some simpler buttons or some rolling buttons to just to just to search between different options , and showing o something on tv and putting less lesser stuff on the uh on the remote control . and uh personal preferences , uh uh uh uh certainly a remote control with uh working with radio waves is uh preferred because uh you can pr you can take it in any direction and you do n't need to tune it any way . and uh uh again , using bigger buttons and less number of buttons are also preferred , as i see . okay . that was my presentation . marketing : okay . i have a question . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : do you think radio waves um will interfere with other appliances in the home ? user interface : uh , i do n't think so , because uh we can make uh we ca we can make this wave in a specific frequency . so they can be in a range which is not inter interfering with the with other devices inside the home . marketing : okay . project manager : so can we use any any frequency ? industrial designer : yeah , it should be okay . project manager : we have the right to use any frequency ? user interface : uh no but as i know , there is a range for uh for this uh f for for uh for this stuff , for designing this circuit . we can we can we can tune our uh transmitter to work in this range , and for this range we do n't need to ask any permission . project manager : okay . and what happen with uh radio waves when two neighbours have the same have our remote control , for example ? and so do they have the same frequency , or ? user interface : uh for this i 'm not uh i i do n't know the solution , but one solution can be something like putting uh p password or something inside the wave , so the only your tv can understand it project manager : okay . a kind of identification , user interface : yeah , identification code inside the industrial designer : yeah f uh i know about this , since it 's my it 's exactly my field , so . project manager : okay . so industrial designer : it 's uh kind of handshaking , uh , when starting to uh when you start to communicate with the your tv then then it 's like an handshaking protocol with your your remote . project manager : yeah . so industrial designer : so so if two two devices are trying to go to communicate with the tv set then the the the one which has the more energy in the wave is chosen . well it can be a problem sometimes , but most of the time it works okay . project manager : okay . user interface : the password may simply uh or uh i identification code may simply solve this problem . a specific uh remote control has a specific f industrial designer : yeah but we we do n't have to think uh about this because i think as a function designer that we will use the already made uh circuits which we probably bu buy . it 's worth to buy . and they have these problems solved so . so we do n't have to think about these . marketing : okay . project manager : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so , maybe you can talk about the function , and marketing : okay . industrial designer : yes . i have only a couple of things because i had i struggled a bit with the software that i 'm supposed to use in this uh uh in this company . i was used to use linux before , so . but i tried to tried to break through this too , i guess . project manager : open . industrial designer : mm . ah . user interface : industrial designer : okay . how to make it big ? project manager : slide show . user interface : five . industrial designer : slide show . okay , thanks . project manager : it should work , so you can . industrial designer : okay . oh so i will speak about working design . that 's the first slide . uh what uh i have to do ? a look at what the other company okay so uh presently i am looking what is possible to use , what circuits to use and stuff like that because uh i did n't work uh with these uh circuits so far so i have to look what what is a v a v available on the market for for the communication for the i_r_ circuits and so on , so i 'm currently looking what is available on the web . and uh i wanted to ask you m maybe afterwards , after after our discussion , if we have some contacts in some companies , so , which can report on what is going on there , so , i would be glad if you can tell me about them . project manager : mm . yeah . industrial designer : so , you know . uh , okay findings , that 's the point that i 'm working on currently but uh so far i i was uh looking what what are the blue circuit , i mean radio wave radio frequency circuits are available now , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but the prices i read are high . so , i know that uh the user interface people and these speak about radio frequency waves because you can you can uh you can make the tv do what you want even if you are in the bathroom or so on , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : but you know , when you are not close to the tv you probably wo n't need to to change the program and so on and so i am i am voting for s to stick to the um infra-red control instead of r_w_ but we will discuss it later maybe . uh . components to use , i 'm not exactly sure what i will use for the design of the circuit . it depends uh on whether we will use the lcd and mainly the speech recognition , user interface : industrial designer : because the speech rec yeah ? marketing : are we um are we planning to take an off the shelf an o_e_m_ component for the radio wave circuit , or are we planning to construct our own circuit board ? industrial designer : no no no no no . this we this we buy i think , because it 's rather cheap nowadays and it 's not worth to construct ourselves . marketing : okay s so we just buy a circuit board and industrial designer : exactly . marketing : okay . industrial designer : but i 'm not sure about the circuit which is responsible for speech recognition . this i prefer that we should make ourselves . marketing : okay . industrial designer : but it depends whether we take a decision to use it . same thing . it 's fairly expensive to use these circuits . so , speech recognition well , lcd it 's okay because it 's common nowadays to use lcd , project manager : industrial designer : so i agree on using any kind of lcd , less buttons good for me as a as a designer of the circuit . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but the speech recognition we have to compare whether the price and the what does it offer , you know . project manager : yeah . so what do you think would be the price , it would be out of range ? industrial designer : yeah , i 'm project manager : or it would be maybe feasible ? industrial designer : oh . i was not thinking too much about the price . but if we use the lcd uh even the radio frequency communication with the tv set and the backlight and uh related things like the photo diodes and stuff , it should be okay . if we decide to use the speech recognition , then we probably could struggle but we 'll see afterwards . project manager : okay . industrial designer : it depends of you if if the m_e_ or u_i_d_ , i 'm sorry about the names , i do n't really know , uh want to have it like in metal or in plastic , these things , it it depends on you not because the the the electronic device 's price is not not so big in comparison to to the overall shape and stuff like that , so . marketing : okay . industrial designer : we will discuss it afterwards . oh , this is nothing . this is just my notes on what to use . and uh my personal preference is yes , i would like also preferably to use r_w_ circuit , but from the point of view uh of the design and price , i would stick to i_r_s . that 's my opinion . uh i mean if infra-red uh circuit not not the radio frequency . project manager : why ? because it 's simpler ? industrial designer : because because the the range where you can use it is fair . project manager : yeah . mm . industrial designer : it 's okay i think . and the price is fairly cheap for this . project manager : okay . it 's a a price matter . industrial designer : well , depends . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : jus just the price . otherwise i do n't care what i put there because it 's the chip which i buy or which we buy . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so i i i think it 's o y o . marketing : what how much more expensive ? are we talking three times more expensive ? industrial designer : well , three to three to five . marketing : or ten times more expensive ? or industrial designer : n not ten times , marketing : okay . industrial designer : but it depends what what we marketing : yeah yeah . that 's still a lot . i think it 's it 's probably not worth spending the extra money , project manager : hmm . yeah . marketing : because i mean all the other remote controls on the market have infra-red , so people do n't expect anything other than infra-red . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so it 's not worth spending the extra money . project manager : well i , oh industrial designer : th they are used to use it when they can see the tv so , i do n't know . project manager : on the other side , we want to have something new . marketing : yeah . project manager : you know , where marketing : yeah . project manager : we want to to have something new and so we i think we should still thinking about it . but maybe . marketing : but i think , based on my usability studies i th i feel that users are prioritise the look and the feel and the trendiness above , you know , the difference between infra-red or radio waves . project manager : okay . marketing : so i think we 're better off spending money in the usability phase . industrial designer : you the user interface , and management man , uh project manager : okay . yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : uh okay , that 's it for me . project manager : okay , thank you peter . industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : so um i have to inform you i receive an email from the management bon board today and they have new requirements for the for the remote control . um first um , they say that 's uh about something about t teletext . uh apparently it becomes from according to them it becomes out of date . out-dated . and uh because of the internet popularity and everybody has internet at home , and actually it 's not useful to have teletext . um . so i think we can avoid the teletext . um the second thing is uh they suggest that that we should uh use the remote control only for tv , not for d_v_d_ and other devices , because it make it it makes it 's too complex and uh because we have not much time for this project we should stay on tv on the only specific tv remote control . industrial designer : i agree . project manager : the third the third one is uh about the the the image of the company . so um uh we should we should keep uh the the product should be recognisable . uh , uh it 's that mean we should use the colour of our company and maybe put somewhere the s the slogan of the company , which is uh , we put fashion of in electronics . so , when people see the the remote control , they should say oh it 's from real reaction and he s they should recognise the company . so , um so now we we should take the decision what we are going to what function we will have on this uh on this remote control . so , mm , are we going to use lcd , speech recognition ? uh . marketing : well , should we start with just the core , the basic functions that we need . project manager : yeah . marketing : and then we can move on to the more advanced features . user interface : mm . yes . project manager : maybe , maybe . industrial designer : okay , so the available things are lcd , the buttons and everything . uh radio frequency depends . and , well the recognition it depends on you guys . project manager : yeah but first maybe what is what are the usual function of a standard remote control ? industrial designer : you should probably speak . project manager : i mean industrial designer : okay . project manager : what do marketing : okay , well , i mean the obvious one is changing channels . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think we should stick on very useful functions , because we want less button . marketing : yeah . project manager : so , yeah . marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : so , turning channel , of course . volume setting . industrial designer : uh just one note to the chan channel changing . do we will we use only two buttons , or or like numbered buttons ? i mean those nine plus one or two ? project manager : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : i think it would be a b industrial designer : because it 's many buttons and we were speaking about lowering the number . project manager : yeah . user interface : mm . project manager : on the other side we have more and more channels , and if you want to pass through all the channels to get the channel you want , it 's marketing : yeah , i user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay so so we keep all these all these buttons . project manager : maybe maybe we could think of something more betweens , like user interface : yeah yeah , at least nine , ten button . project manager : uh industrial designer : like ten plus , five plus , one plus , one minus or something . project manager : yeah . maybe something like that . industrial designer : or using the names and the keyboard marketing : ah yeah . project manager : uh . industrial designer : i dunno . user interface : or project manager : maybe user interface : or something . project manager : oh i do n't know . oh . maybe we could have key buttons , like uh discovery channe like documentary channel , and movies channel and industrial designer : you mean like hierarchical structure . project manager : and inside this this thing you can move , maybe switch . user interface : mm-hmm . okay . like categorising channels . project manager : if you want to see a movie you click on the movie button so you have all the movie channels and after you 've you plus plus plus . industrial designer : okay , so s user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh sorry . project manager : i it just an idea . user interface : okay . project manager : i do n't know what you think about that but . industrial designer : so it requires the use of lcd probably , to to tell you project manager : yeah , probably , yeah , yeah . marketing : to have some feedback . yeah . industrial designer : okay , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i 'll make a note on lcd . marketing : we could maybe also c um incorporate petre 's idea of the um slider for the volume , with the channel . user interface : okay . project manager : okay . marketing : so we c you could quickly just through many channels . industrial designer : yeah . like roller for the yeah . okay . marketing : for the channels , perhaps . project manager : anything else ? marketing : so we 've got channel and volume . um . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so we are still s speaking about the common devices or we are inviting the new one ? marketing : i think so . project manager : yeah . marketing : i think basically the core functions we want , and then more advanced ones . project manager : what about the settings of the tv ? because it 's button we do n't use very often , but it 's we need it anyway . so user interface : so uh we do n't have any uh we do n't have uh marketing : yeah . user interface : we should just design the remote control and we sh we do n't have any access to the to the tv design or we can change some design . because one solution for this um uh uh ch changing channels is to see a summary of all channels , some some preview of all channels and then you can industrial designer : on the screen , you mean ? user interface : yeah . yeah b industrial designer : not on the control , but on the screen . user interface : not on the control , on the screen , on the tv screen . industrial designer : well , this would avoid lcd , then . user interface : and then marketing : i do n't oh , i do n't but i do n't think we 're we 're the ones . i mean this remote control we 're developing is a generic control for all tvs , i think . project manager : yeah , yeah . i do n't know if it 's possible to to watch something on tv user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh . w i i think it it would be better to to stick to the remote control and not to bother the tv to to to print these things . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well it wi it will be still more expensive , but for the lcd and this stuff is no problem in the price . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . project manager : so , what are we doing with the settings ? because settings if we want to do settings we need buttons for that and we want less buttons , so . maybe with the lcd we can do something with less buttons , but user interface : yeah . marketing : but then you do n't want to make the lcd display too complicated at the same time . project manager : mm . industrial designer : two tvs . marketing : i mean there 's always we can always have these l less often used functions hidden somewhere , under a cover or at the back of under a slide or some project manager : yeah . oh yeah . industrial designer : like ma project manager : oh , the . industrial designer : we we could have for example two buttons like simple mode and advanced mode . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : or i dunno . user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : or like children and grandfather 's mode , marketing : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : and the , well the the user project manager : industrial designer : not the user , the man mana tv manager mode . ah , i dunno . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . so we have five minutes left . um . project manager : yeah . marketing : so i think s the settings we th we are agreeing are agreed that they 're required . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's just how to a project manager : we should hide them somewhere . industrial designer : hide them , okay . project manager : in the menus of the lcd or in the back of the remote control , or something like that . marketing : yeah . okay . yeah . uh , okay , what else ? industrial designer : um . yes . marketing : i mean a power button 's obviously industrial designer : this i was thinking . do we need a power button at all ? marketing : uh required . industrial designer : should should should n't we do it like sleep mode after five minutes of not using it ? because generally project manager : it 's it 's a kind of setting , i think . it should fit in those settings functions . user interface : mm . settings . project manager : because it 's not a very current useful function . marketing : uh , well i think when they say power button they mean to turn the tv on and off . project manager : no , i think it 's after after five minutes or something a timer industrial designer : yes . well i i uh project manager : i i think , no ? industrial designer : marketing : but if you 're watching tv for two hours , you do n't want your tv to turn off after five five minute industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : you do n't need to every five minutes to keep it alive . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : uh probably . okay , so we should keep this button . user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean based on our usability studies again , um pe um people said that the power button was v a very relevant button . project manager : oh okay , yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : um , you know , it was nine out of ten industrial designer : okay , so we we could p what we could probably do is to keep also to keep uh keep the lcd and all the buttons and stuff , marketing : re relevance . industrial designer : we could make it like a opening opening style that if you open it you are you just turn on the tv and if you close it , it will project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : turn off the tv . if if you like this , marketing : okay . b okay . industrial designer : because , well it 's maybe question for you t marketing : i think we need to concentrate on the , you know , the major usage of the th of the control , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : which is you sit down , you turn on your tv , you change channels , you change the volume , you turn the tv off . project manager : yeah . so s yeah . marketing : um and all the other f functionality is industrial designer : user interface : yeah , they can yeah they can be hide somewhere by a cover or something like this . marketing : not used very often . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : like covering cu . project manager : on the back , or industrial designer : yeah . i mean like the user interface : yeah , like mobile phone covering . industrial designer : yeah but since we have the lcd , we did n't need too much button too many buttons . um , okay , just um the decision of the power button . user interface : industrial designer : should we make it a button , or some some something which would be project manager : for what ? industrial designer : uh power button . marketing : i think a button . user interface : a button is better . project manager : ah oh yeah , yeah . marketing : i think it should be a bu industrial designer : if it if it 's a button or user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah a button , yeah i guess so . industrial designer : okay . marketing : its own button on the front . industrial designer : okay , one nice big button . marketing : industrial designer : old fashioned button , to satisfy the grandmothers . project manager : user interface : project manager : user interface : marketing : okay . project manager : so , any other suggestions or functions ? marketing : s what about things like the clock and um timers ? industrial designer : do we still have the time ? i i just wonder . project manager : yeah , we have still one or two minutes to talk , yeah . industrial designer : okay . oh . well what w what was the question ? user interface : clock or marketing : uh um , you know , some func some features on the control to display a time , or t to display project manager : usually it 's already on tv or something like that . industrial designer : yeah but since we want to control all the televisions , and and it would probably be worth to to set the timing on the remote , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : no ? because if if the tv turns on itself , it well you know , if the time the timer should be there . project manager : yeah . yeah . if we if we add the time , we have to have maybe a bigger display or something like that , and is it very useful ? i mean , are users wants to have the time on the on the remote ? this is the question . marketing : probably not . project manager : is it useful ? marketing : it 's a questi yeah , it 's a trade-off . project manager : w in my opinion we should have only useful thing and because apparently they want the simpler it 's is better . marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : ah , yeah . marketing : okay simple . industrial designer : did you did you ever use the like the timing of turning on the tv , user interface : project manager : industrial designer : well and based on your user interface : marketing : very , yeah okay , very occasionally . industrial designer : marketing : but i do use the i do use the display of the time quite often , but industrial designer : yeah but it can be on the display in in a corner all the time on the remote . marketing : yeah . project manager : marketing : yeah that 's okay , that 's true . okay , so no time button . okay . project manager : no time on . user interface : and uh do we need to include anything about the speech recognition and the speech commands , or ? industrial designer : yes yes . project manager : i think user interface : i i thin i think it will not take lots of place , we just need a microphone and the software , so , and it sh and it will be a little bit new and interesting , so people may be attracted to buy this stuff and it 's not very difficult to uh put a software inside the the electronic device and put a microphone . it does n't take that much place and also that much it does n't cost that much . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah but we we should be careful about the battery life , then . if we use the speech recognition . project manager : so maybe we think we can think more about that , and discuss that maybe last time next time . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh yeah , now the meeting room is busy . somebody booked the meeting room just for at one p_m_ , and so we should leave . uh . so , um . so now we are going for for a small lunch . it 's uh funded by the company . and uh after we have uh thirteen minutes to to do indevel individual works . and uh i will do the minutes . and uh you are going to work on your individual works . and uh you will receive as usual your specific instruction and so on . marketing : okay , project manager : thank you everybody . marketing : cool . okay user interface : thanks . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about high technology features . </s> marketing : um the closest button that was used , well the cl the button that was used that was closest to the channel button was the teletext button , um which was used fourteen times per hour , followed by the volume button , which was four times per hour , um , all the other , all the other um buttons , such as ch um audio and picture selection um configuration buttons and things were used , you know , l approx well less than or equal to one times per hour . um we also asked users um which buttons had the most importance to them , you know , which which buttons they felt were the most important buttons on on the remote control . and basically they came they said the channel , volume , and power buttons had the highest relevance to users , um note that only power was very infrequently used , it only had a b a a fr usage frequency of about one times per hour , but users ranked it as having a very very high relevance . um and the audio and picture settings had a very that well the users thought that um w the audio and picture settings were very uh were n't very important to them um , and they used them very infrequently a as well . so we asked users what what um frustrates them the most about um current remote controls . and fifty percent of the users said that uh what frustrates them is losing the remote control um somewhere in the room and not being able to find it . um they also said that it um it takes a lot of time to learn a new remote control , especially when there 's many buttons and it 's a , you know , a c a a unintuitive interface . um and then thirdly , they some users commented on the fact that the the you know the way that you have to hold and press buttons on a remote control ar are bad and um cause u repetitive strain injury . we also asked some users about some specific features that they 'd like to see in the on the remote control . in particular , do they want an lcd d display , and secondly , do they think speech recognition uh is a useful feature to have on a remote control . project manager : marketing : um basically our findings are that um amongst a younger age groups uh the answer is umv overwhelmingly yes . they want these features , they want these high technology features . industrial designer : marketing : um for instance , ninety one percent of pe of people aged between fifteen and twenty five said yes , they want these features . whereas um the the trend was as users as users um became older and older uh they were less likely to want these sort of features in a um in a remote control . so i guess it depends on where we 're focusing our our market . um and as our company motto is putting fashion in electronics , um i think we 're focusing on the younger younger um target demographic , and so maybe we should think about adding these sort of high technology features into our remote control . that 's my dic that 's my presentation . thank you . project manager : thank you . industrial designer : user interface : okay . project manager : so , um maybe now we can talk about a user interface and uh about the technical function of this device . so uh pet peter , can you talk say something about that ? industrial designer : well , okay , yeah . yeah , but the user user interface is responsible . user interface : b you think uh i i 'm user interface manager . industrial designer : okay , so . marketing : project manager : sorry , i 'm sorry . sorry . user interface : okay . okay . if i could go there with this cable . industrial designer : you 're scaring me with lcd man . and speech recognition in remote unit , it will be very e expensive . marketing : yeah , it 's true , but , you know , they 're features that users want , industrial designer : marketing : so it 's industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and our production cost of twelve fifty euros per per unit is fairly high i think , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so i think we can afford to to add these sort of features into our remote . industrial designer : at least we have couple of months t to work on it so so it will be cheaper finally . but i 'm not sure about the circuit which is responsible for speech recognition . this i prefer that we should make ourselves . marketing : okay . industrial designer : but it depends whether we take a decision to use it . same thing . it 's fairly expensive to use these circuits . so , speech recognition well , lcd it 's okay because it 's common nowadays to use lcd , project manager : industrial designer : so i agree on using any kind of lcd , less buttons good for me as a as a designer of the circuit . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but the speech recognition we have to compare whether the price and the what does it offer , you know . project manager : yeah . so what do you think would be the price , it would be out of range ? industrial designer : yeah , i 'm project manager : or it would be maybe feasible ? industrial designer : oh . i was not thinking too much about the price . but if we use the lcd uh even the radio frequency communication with the tv set and the backlight and uh related things like the photo diodes and stuff , it should be okay . if we decide to use the speech recognition , then we probably could struggle but we 'll see afterwards . user interface : and uh do we need to include anything about the speech recognition and the speech commands , or ? industrial designer : yes yes . project manager : i think user interface : i i thin i think it will not take lots of place , we just need a microphone and the software , so , and it sh and it will be a little bit new and interesting , so people may be attracted to buy this stuff and it 's not very difficult to uh put a software inside the the electronic device and put a microphone . it does n't take that much place and also that much it does n't cost that much . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah but we we should be careful about the battery life , then . if we use the speech recognition . project manager : so maybe we think we can think more about that , and discuss that maybe last time next time . user interface : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> summarize user interface 's opinions towards radio wave interference . </s> marketing : do you think radio waves um will interfere with other appliances in the home ? user interface : uh , i do n't think so , because uh we can make uh we ca we can make this wave in a specific frequency . so they can be in a range which is not inter interfering with the with other devices inside the home . marketing : okay . project manager : so can we use any any frequency ? industrial designer : yeah , it should be okay . project manager : we have the right to use any frequency ? user interface : uh no but as i know , there is a range for uh for this uh f for for uh for this stuff , for designing this circuit . we can we can we can tune our uh transmitter to work in this range , and for this range we do n't need to ask any permission . project manager : okay . and what happen with uh radio waves when two neighbours have the same have our remote control , for example ? and so do they have the same frequency , or ? user interface : uh for this i 'm not uh i i do n't know the solution , but one solution can be something like putting uh p password or something inside the wave , so the only your tv can understand it project manager : okay . a kind of identification , user interface : yeah , identification code inside the industrial designer : yeah f uh i know about this , since it 's my it 's exactly my field , so . project manager : okay . so industrial designer : it 's uh kind of handshaking , uh , when starting to uh when you start to communicate with the your tv then then it 's like an handshaking protocol with your your remote . project manager : yeah . so industrial designer : so so if two two devices are trying to go to communicate with the tv set then the the the one which has the more energy in the wave is chosen . well it can be a problem sometimes , but most of the time it works okay . project manager : okay . user interface : the password may simply uh or uh i identification code may simply solve this problem . a specific uh remote control has a specific f industrial designer : yeah but we we do n't have to think uh about this because i think as a function designer that we will use the already made uh circuits which we probably bu buy . it 's worth to buy . and they have these problems solved so . so we do n't have to think about these . </s>
<s> summarize industrial designer 's opinions towards whether the price would be out of range when discussing the cost of different factors . </s> project manager : yeah . so what do you think would be the price , it would be out of range ? industrial designer : yeah , i 'm project manager : or it would be maybe feasible ? industrial designer : oh . i was not thinking too much about the price . but if we use the lcd uh even the radio frequency communication with the tv set and the backlight and uh related things like the photo diodes and stuff , it should be okay . if we decide to use the speech recognition , then we probably could struggle but we 'll see afterwards . project manager : okay . industrial designer : it depends of you if if the m_e_ or u_i_d_ , i 'm sorry about the names , i do n't really know , uh want to have it like in metal or in plastic , these things , it it depends on you not because the the the electronic device 's price is not not so big in comparison to to the overall shape and stuff like that , so . marketing : okay . industrial designer : we will discuss it afterwards . oh , this is nothing . this is just my notes on what to use . and uh my personal preference is yes , i would like also preferably to use r_w_ circuit , but from the point of view uh of the design and price , i would stick to i_r_s . that 's my opinion . uh i mean if infra-red uh circuit not not the radio frequency . project manager : why ? because it 's simpler ? industrial designer : because because the the range where you can use it is fair . project manager : yeah . mm . industrial designer : it 's okay i think . and the price is fairly cheap for this . project manager : okay . it 's a a price matter . industrial designer : well , depends . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : jus just the price . otherwise i do n't care what i put there because it 's the chip which i buy or which we buy . </s>
<s> what did the group think of buttons when discussing basic functions . </s> marketing : well , should we start with just the core , the basic functions that we need . project manager : yeah . marketing : and then we can move on to the more advanced features . user interface : mm . yes . project manager : maybe , maybe . industrial designer : okay , so the available things are lcd , the buttons and everything . uh radio frequency depends . and , well the recognition it depends on you guys . project manager : yeah but first maybe what is what are the usual function of a standard remote control ? industrial designer : you should probably speak . project manager : i mean industrial designer : okay . project manager : what do marketing : okay , well , i mean the obvious one is changing channels . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think we should stick on very useful functions , because we want less button . marketing : yeah . project manager : so , yeah . marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : so , turning channel , of course . volume setting . industrial designer : uh just one note to the chan channel changing . do we will we use only two buttons , or or like numbered buttons ? i mean those nine plus one or two ? project manager : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : i think it would be a b industrial designer : because it 's many buttons and we were speaking about lowering the number . project manager : yeah . user interface : mm . project manager : on the other side we have more and more channels , and if you want to pass through all the channels to get the channel you want , it 's marketing : yeah , i user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay so so we keep all these all these buttons . project manager : maybe maybe we could think of something more betweens , like user interface : yeah yeah , at least nine , ten button . project manager : uh industrial designer : like ten plus , five plus , one plus , one minus or something . project manager : yeah . maybe something like that . industrial designer : or using the names and the keyboard marketing : ah yeah . project manager : uh . industrial designer : i dunno . user interface : or project manager : maybe user interface : or something . project manager : oh i do n't know . oh . maybe we could have key buttons , like uh discovery channe like documentary channel , and movies channel and industrial designer : you mean like hierarchical structure . project manager : and inside this this thing you can move , maybe switch . user interface : mm-hmm . okay . like categorising channels . project manager : if you want to see a movie you click on the movie button so you have all the movie channels and after you 've you plus plus plus . industrial designer : okay , so s user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh sorry . project manager : i it just an idea . user interface : okay . project manager : what about the settings of the tv ? because it 's button we do n't use very often , but it 's we need it anyway . so user interface : so uh we do n't have any uh we do n't have uh marketing : yeah . user interface : we should just design the remote control and we sh we do n't have any access to the to the tv design or we can change some design . because one solution for this um uh uh ch changing channels is to see a summary of all channels , some some preview of all channels and then you can industrial designer : this i was thinking . do we need a power button at all ? marketing : uh required . industrial designer : should should should n't we do it like sleep mode after five minutes of not using it ? because generally project manager : it 's it 's a kind of setting , i think . it should fit in those settings functions . user interface : mm . settings . project manager : because it 's not a very current useful function . marketing : uh , well i think when they say power button they mean to turn the tv on and off . project manager : no , i think it 's after after five minutes or something a timer industrial designer : yes . well i i uh project manager : i i think , no ? industrial designer : marketing : but if you 're watching tv for two hours , you do n't want your tv to turn off after five five minute industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : you do n't need to every five minutes to keep it alive . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : uh probably . okay , so we should keep this button . user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean based on our usability studies again , um pe um people said that the power button was v a very relevant button . project manager : oh okay , yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : um , you know , it was nine out of ten industrial designer : okay , so we we could p what we could probably do is to keep also to keep uh keep the lcd and all the buttons and stuff , marketing : re relevance . industrial designer : we could make it like a opening opening style that if you open it you are you just turn on the tv and if you close it , it will project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : turn off the tv . if if you like this , marketing : okay . b okay . industrial designer : because , well it 's maybe question for you t marketing : i think we need to concentrate on the , you know , the major usage of the th of the control , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : which is you sit down , you turn on your tv , you change channels , you change the volume , you turn the tv off . project manager : yeah . so s yeah . marketing : um and all the other f functionality is industrial designer : user interface : yeah , they can yeah they can be hide somewhere by a cover or something like this . marketing : not used very often . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : like covering cu . project manager : on the back , or industrial designer : yeah . i mean like the user interface : yeah , like mobile phone covering . industrial designer : yeah but since we have the lcd , we did n't need too much button too many buttons . um , okay , just um the decision of the power button . user interface : industrial designer : should we make it a button , or some some something which would be project manager : for what ? industrial designer : uh power button . marketing : i think a button . user interface : a button is better . project manager : ah oh yeah , yeah . marketing : i think it should be a bu industrial designer : if it if it 's a button or user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah a button , yeah i guess so . industrial designer : okay . marketing : its own button on the front . industrial designer : okay , one nice big button . marketing : industrial designer : old fashioned button , to satisfy the grandmothers . project manager : user interface : project manager : user interface : marketing : okay . </s>
<s> what did the group think of the clock or timer when discussing basic functions ? </s> marketing : s what about things like the clock and um timers ? industrial designer : do we still have the time ? i i just wonder . project manager : yeah , we have still one or two minutes to talk , yeah . industrial designer : okay . oh . well what w what was the question ? user interface : clock or marketing : uh um , you know , some func some features on the control to display a time , or t to display project manager : usually it 's already on tv or something like that . industrial designer : yeah but since we want to control all the televisions , and and it would probably be worth to to set the timing on the remote , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : no ? because if if the tv turns on itself , it well you know , if the time the timer should be there . project manager : yeah . yeah . if we if we add the time , we have to have maybe a bigger display or something like that , and is it very useful ? i mean , are users wants to have the time on the on the remote ? this is the question . marketing : probably not . project manager : is it useful ? marketing : it 's a questi yeah , it 's a trade-off . project manager : w in my opinion we should have only useful thing and because apparently they want the simpler it 's is better . marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : ah , yeah . marketing : okay simple . industrial designer : did you did you ever use the like the timing of turning on the tv , user interface : project manager : industrial designer : well and based on your user interface : marketing : very , yeah okay , very occasionally . industrial designer : marketing : but i do use the i do use the display of the time quite often , but industrial designer : yeah but it can be on the display in in a corner all the time on the remote . marketing : yeah . project manager : marketing : yeah that 's okay , that 's true . okay , so no time button . okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the conclusion of experiments and questionnaire for user requirement . </s> project manager : so um nice to see you again . uh . so , uh . tod uh for this meeting i will take the notes and do the minutes . uh so we will see our three presentations . um we will start with the uh manager expert wi who will talk about uh user re requirements , whats user needs and what it desire for this devi device . marketing : okay , can i have the laptop over here , or ? project manager : yep . oh , i do n't think so . i think you have to come here . marketing : okay . have to get up . project manager : i dunno . i think it should stay . marketing : excuse me . industrial designer : yeah , that 's it . marketing : okay . project manager : should stay in the square here . marketing : okay . project manager : oh , maybe . marketing : okay , so basically i 'm gon na present some findings of a study we conducted uh into uh what users want in this remote control . project manager : oh , you can put it here . oh that 's okay , it 's jus marketing : um so first of all we what we did is we um conducted a an experiment with a hundred test subjects . um we put them in a in our um usability laboratory and got them to , you know , um play with remote controls , and also to complete , after they 'd done that , to complete a questionnaire uh to tell us what they like and what they do n't like in remote controls . so basically um the major things we found out was that um basically users do n't like the look and feel of of most remote controls that are currently on the market . um they , you know , seventy five percent of the people we we uh did the experiments on , found that rem remote the remote controls that they 'd used in the past were ugly . completely ugly . um they they did n't match the operating behaviour of the user , that is , you know , the the way users use remote controls when they 're watching tv . um , that the layout of the remote controls did n't match they way that they used it . um and thirdly they say that w half of the users that we um tested said that they only used ten percent of the buttons that uh are on remote controls . um so we collect we also some collected some usage statistics uh based on how these test subjects were using their remote control . and from this we basically came up with the figure that the channel buttons , the channel selection buttons are the most by far the most used buttons on the remote control . um and you can see they 're used a hundred and sixty eight times per hour on average , um , while the user 's watching tv . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : um the closest button that was used , well the cl the button that was used that was closest to the channel button was the teletext button , um which was used fourteen times per hour , followed by the volume button , which was four times per hour , um , all the other , all the other um buttons , such as ch um audio and picture selection um configuration buttons and things were used , you know , l approx well less than or equal to one times per hour . um we also asked users um which buttons had the most importance to them , you know , which which buttons they felt were the most important buttons on on the remote control . and basically they came they said the channel , volume , and power buttons had the highest relevance to users , um note that only power was very infrequently used , it only had a b a a fr usage frequency of about one times per hour , but users ranked it as having a very very high relevance . um and the audio and picture settings had a very that well the users thought that um w the audio and picture settings were very uh were n't very important to them um , and they used them very infrequently a as well . so we asked users what what um frustrates them the most about um current remote controls . and fifty percent of the users said that uh what frustrates them is losing the remote control um somewhere in the room and not being able to find it . um they also said that it um it takes a lot of time to learn a new remote control , especially when there 's many buttons and it 's a , you know , a c a a unintuitive interface . um and then thirdly , they some users commented on the fact that the the you know the way that you have to hold and press buttons on a remote control ar are bad and um cause u repetitive strain injury . we also asked some users about some specific features that they 'd like to see in the on the remote control . in particular , do they want an lcd d display , and secondly , do they think speech recognition uh is a useful feature to have on a remote control . project manager : marketing : um basically our findings are that um amongst a younger age groups uh the answer is umv overwhelmingly yes . they want these features , they want these high technology features . industrial designer : marketing : um for instance , ninety one percent of pe of people aged between fifteen and twenty five said yes , they want these features . whereas um the the trend was as users as users um became older and older uh they were less likely to want these sort of features in a um in a remote control . so i guess it depends on where we 're focusing our our market . um and as our company motto is putting fashion in electronics , um i think we 're focusing on the younger younger um target demographic , and so maybe we should think about adding these sort of high technology features into our remote control . that 's my dic that 's my presentation . thank you . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the new requirement and basic functions . </s> project manager : first um , they say that 's uh about something about t teletext . uh apparently it becomes from according to them it becomes out of date . out-dated . and uh because of the internet popularity and everybody has internet at home , and actually it 's not useful to have teletext . um . so i think we can avoid the teletext . um the second thing is uh they suggest that that we should uh use the remote control only for tv , not for d_v_d_ and other devices , because it make it it makes it 's too complex and uh because we have not much time for this project we should stay on tv on the only specific tv remote control . industrial designer : i agree . project manager : the third the third one is uh about the the the image of the company . so um uh we should we should keep uh the the product should be recognisable . uh , uh it 's that mean we should use the colour of our company and maybe put somewhere the s the slogan of the company , which is uh , we put fashion of in electronics . so , when people see the the remote control , they should say oh it 's from real reaction and he s they should recognise the company . so , um so now we we should take the decision what we are going to what function we will have on this uh on this remote control . so , mm , are we going to use lcd , speech recognition ? uh . marketing : well , should we start with just the core , the basic functions that we need . project manager : yeah . marketing : and then we can move on to the more advanced features . user interface : mm . yes . project manager : maybe , maybe . industrial designer : okay , so the available things are lcd , the buttons and everything . uh radio frequency depends . and , well the recognition it depends on you guys . project manager : yeah but first maybe what is what are the usual function of a standard remote control ? industrial designer : you should probably speak . project manager : i mean industrial designer : okay . project manager : what do marketing : okay , well , i mean the obvious one is changing channels . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think we should stick on very useful functions , because we want less button . marketing : yeah . project manager : so , yeah . marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : so , turning channel , of course . volume setting . industrial designer : uh just one note to the chan channel changing . do we will we use only two buttons , or or like numbered buttons ? i mean those nine plus one or two ? project manager : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : i think it would be a b industrial designer : because it 's many buttons and we were speaking about lowering the number . project manager : yeah . user interface : mm . project manager : on the other side we have more and more channels , and if you want to pass through all the channels to get the channel you want , it 's marketing : yeah , i user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay so so we keep all these all these buttons . project manager : maybe maybe we could think of something more betweens , like user interface : yeah yeah , at least nine , ten button . project manager : uh industrial designer : like ten plus , five plus , one plus , one minus or something . project manager : yeah . maybe something like that . industrial designer : or using the names and the keyboard marketing : ah yeah . project manager : uh . industrial designer : i dunno . user interface : or project manager : maybe user interface : or something . project manager : oh i do n't know . oh . maybe we could have key buttons , like uh discovery channe like documentary channel , and movies channel and industrial designer : you mean like hierarchical structure . project manager : and inside this this thing you can move , maybe switch . user interface : mm-hmm . okay . like categorising channels . project manager : if you want to see a movie you click on the movie button so you have all the movie channels and after you 've you plus plus plus . industrial designer : okay , so s user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh sorry . project manager : i it just an idea . user interface : okay . project manager : i do n't know what you think about that but . industrial designer : so it requires the use of lcd probably , to to tell you project manager : yeah , probably , yeah , yeah . marketing : to have some feedback . yeah . industrial designer : okay , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i 'll make a note on lcd . marketing : we could maybe also c um incorporate petre 's idea of the um slider for the volume , with the channel . user interface : okay . project manager : okay . marketing : so we c you could quickly just through many channels . industrial designer : yeah . like roller for the yeah . okay . marketing : for the channels , perhaps . project manager : anything else ? marketing : so we 've got channel and volume . um . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so we are still s speaking about the common devices or we are inviting the new one ? marketing : i think so . project manager : yeah . marketing : i think basically the core functions we want , and then more advanced ones . project manager : what about the settings of the tv ? because it 's button we do n't use very often , but it 's we need it anyway . so user interface : so uh we do n't have any uh we do n't have uh marketing : yeah . user interface : we should just design the remote control and we sh we do n't have any access to the to the tv design or we can change some design . because one solution for this um uh uh ch changing channels is to see a summary of all channels , some some preview of all channels and then you can industrial designer : on the screen , you mean ? user interface : yeah . yeah b industrial designer : not on the control , but on the screen . user interface : not on the control , on the screen , on the tv screen . industrial designer : well , this would avoid lcd , then . user interface : and then marketing : i do n't oh , i do n't but i do n't think we 're we 're the ones . i mean this remote control we 're developing is a generic control for all tvs , i think . project manager : yeah , yeah . i do n't know if it 's possible to to watch something on tv user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : oh . w i i think it it would be better to to stick to the remote control and not to bother the tv to to to print these things . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : well it wi it will be still more expensive , but for the lcd and this stuff is no problem in the price . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . project manager : so , what are we doing with the settings ? because settings if we want to do settings we need buttons for that and we want less buttons , so . maybe with the lcd we can do something with less buttons , but user interface : yeah . marketing : but then you do n't want to make the lcd display too complicated at the same time . project manager : mm . industrial designer : two tvs . marketing : i mean there 's always we can always have these l less often used functions hidden somewhere , under a cover or at the back of under a slide or some project manager : yeah . oh yeah . industrial designer : like ma project manager : oh , the . industrial designer : we we could have for example two buttons like simple mode and advanced mode . user interface : project manager : industrial designer : or i dunno . user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : or like children and grandfather 's mode , marketing : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : and the , well the the user project manager : industrial designer : not the user , the man mana tv manager mode . ah , i dunno . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay . so we have five minutes left . um . project manager : yeah . marketing : so i think s the settings we th we are agreeing are agreed that they 're required . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's just how to a project manager : we should hide them somewhere . industrial designer : hide them , okay . project manager : in the menus of the lcd or in the back of the remote control , or something like that . marketing : yeah . okay . yeah . uh , okay , what else ? industrial designer : um . yes . marketing : i mean a power button 's obviously industrial designer : this i was thinking . do we need a power button at all ? marketing : uh required . industrial designer : should should should n't we do it like sleep mode after five minutes of not using it ? because generally project manager : it 's it 's a kind of setting , i think . it should fit in those settings functions . user interface : mm . settings . project manager : because it 's not a very current useful function . marketing : uh , well i think when they say power button they mean to turn the tv on and off . project manager : no , i think it 's after after five minutes or something a timer industrial designer : yes . well i i uh project manager : i i think , no ? industrial designer : marketing : but if you 're watching tv for two hours , you do n't want your tv to turn off after five five minute industrial designer : project manager : industrial designer : you do n't need to every five minutes to keep it alive . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : uh probably . okay , so we should keep this button . user interface : yeah . marketing : i mean based on our usability studies again , um pe um people said that the power button was v a very relevant button . project manager : oh okay , yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : um , you know , it was nine out of ten industrial designer : okay , so we we could p what we could probably do is to keep also to keep uh keep the lcd and all the buttons and stuff , marketing : re relevance . industrial designer : we could make it like a opening opening style that if you open it you are you just turn on the tv and if you close it , it will project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : turn off the tv . if if you like this , marketing : okay . b okay . industrial designer : because , well it 's maybe question for you t marketing : i think we need to concentrate on the , you know , the major usage of the th of the control , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . marketing : which is you sit down , you turn on your tv , you change channels , you change the volume , you turn the tv off . project manager : yeah . so s yeah . marketing : um and all the other f functionality is industrial designer : user interface : yeah , they can yeah they can be hide somewhere by a cover or something like this . marketing : not used very often . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : like covering cu . project manager : on the back , or industrial designer : yeah . i mean like the user interface : yeah , like mobile phone covering . industrial designer : yeah but since we have the lcd , we did n't need too much button too many buttons . um , okay , just um the decision of the power button . user interface : industrial designer : should we make it a button , or some some something which would be project manager : for what ? industrial designer : uh power button . marketing : i think a button . user interface : a button is better . project manager : ah oh yeah , yeah . marketing : i think it should be a bu industrial designer : if it if it 's a button or user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah a button , yeah i guess so . industrial designer : okay . marketing : its own button on the front . industrial designer : okay , one nice big button . marketing : industrial designer : old fashioned button , to satisfy the grandmothers . project manager : user interface : project manager : user interface : marketing : okay . project manager : so , any other suggestions or functions ? marketing : s what about things like the clock and um timers ? industrial designer : do we still have the time ? i i just wonder . project manager : yeah , we have still one or two minutes to talk , yeah . industrial designer : okay . oh . well what w what was the question ? user interface : clock or marketing : uh um , you know , some func some features on the control to display a time , or t to display project manager : usually it 's already on tv or something like that . industrial designer : yeah but since we want to control all the televisions , and and it would probably be worth to to set the timing on the remote , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : no ? because if if the tv turns on itself , it well you know , if the time the timer should be there . project manager : yeah . yeah . if we if we add the time , we have to have maybe a bigger display or something like that , and is it very useful ? i mean , are users wants to have the time on the on the remote ? this is the question . marketing : probably not . project manager : is it useful ? marketing : it 's a questi yeah , it 's a trade-off . project manager : w in my opinion we should have only useful thing and because apparently they want the simpler it 's is better . marketing : 'kay . industrial designer : ah , yeah . marketing : okay simple . industrial designer : did you did you ever use the like the timing of turning on the tv , user interface : project manager : industrial designer : well and based on your user interface : marketing : very , yeah okay , very occasionally . industrial designer : marketing : but i do use the i do use the display of the time quite often , but industrial designer : yeah but it can be on the display in in a corner all the time on the remote . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : okay . je croix que c'est dommage de le it will be sad to destroy this prototype . it really looks like a banana . user interface : it is a banana . project manager : it is a banana . user interface : it is the essence of bananas . i would be confused with this thing . project manager : user interface : project manager : mm . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : how is everyone ? project manager : so we are here for the detailed design meeting . marketing : project manager : so user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : we will uh i will first present what we are going to do in this meeting . then uh i 've i will also take notes during this meeting and i will send you uh a summary then as usual . we will then look at the evaluation criteria of the prototype presented by uh our two colleagues that make good work . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : and uh then we will see the financial aspects and the cost of the product . then we will uh evaluate the product . and uh end with the conclusion of this project and see whether it fits with it fulf if it fulfil the requirement or not . so industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : d let 's start with the cost aspect so so i look at the aspect discussed last time , that is to say uh to have a standard battery , to have a yellow banana shaped uh case with uh a rubber material around it industrial designer : project manager : to be uh to feel spongy , user interface : like a banana . project manager : and uh also at the different aspect like having a wheel etcetera . marketing : industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and the cost ended to be ten point seven euros . so which is uh good , because we had a price gap of twelve point five euros . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so for the financial aspect it 's okay , we can uh we can continue with this product uh as if , marketing : project manager : and we are now going to see the project evaluation with uh our marketing expert . marketing : yeah . okay . so uh you can have my project in project manager : yeah . you have a presentation ? marketing : uh yeah just a project manager : participant four , yes . marketing : four . evaluation . project manager : okay . okay . marketing : okay . so you can go . we can go through . project manager : okay . marketing : so i made an evaluation and the the evaluation criteria is made according to the users ' requirements and the market trends we talked about uh during the previous uh meetings . so you can go through and project manager : okay . marketing : okay so uh we have uh six points . we we talked about before . project manager : okay . marketing : so we we want to have a product fancy look and feel , technologically innovative , easy to use , fashion , easy to find in a room , and robust , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : uh and uh uh i have a scale of uh seven points . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . so i go through all the uh all the points here , project manager : yeah . marketing : and uh according to what you think about the this project you can uh mm make a one point , two point or seven point . okay ? project manager : okay . marketing : and after we ha we have an an average , and uh we see . project manager : okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : the okay ? uh so uh fancy look and feel , what do you think ? project manager : okay . maybe you can presen marketing : f between o one and seven . project manager : okay . maybe hold it . marketing : project manager : so i think it 's uh very uh very nice . what do you think ? user interface : i give it a i give it a five . project manager : yeah . so it 's between one and seven ? seven is the highest uh ? marketing : yeah . seven is the project manager : i will give a six . industrial designer : i will give a a five . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and you ? marketing : sorry . user interface : do you vote uh christine ? marketing : eh ? user interface : do you also vote ? marketing : no , i just want to see something project manager : maybe we all have to agree on a common user interface : well , we can very easily . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : uh i think uh and need to as well . project manager : no problem . so user interface : marketing : need to project manager : this is your marketing : uh i do n't know if you we ha we have to put uh one uh f if it 's better or project manager : one is most . user interface : i marketing : uh-uh . project manager : well , we can choose what we want . marketing : um . yeah . project manager : okay , let 's say that seven is the best . marketing : or maybe we can say s seven is the best mm . project manager : okay . so so do note the grade we have five , six for me , industrial designer : five . project manager : five . and what what 's your choice ? marketing : oh sorry . project manager : how much would you give on the fancy aspect , on the fashionable aspect ? marketing : six uh s you can how much what ? project manager : how much would you you do n't answer to this uh questionnaire ? marketing : oh yes i mm i dunno mm , i think six , it 's a good uh user interface : so it will have five point five average . project manager : five point five average . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : wa can . industrial designer : marketing : okay . project manager : well , does it marketing : i sorry . user interface : marketing : okay . so after , the technological aspect ? project manager : okay , techne technological aspect . marketing : so we we said uh we have uh a new technological uh thing with a wheel . project manager : yeah , we have the wheel . we also have the rubber material , which make it uh like new also . i think i would give a five . user interface : it 's four . project manager : four ? industrial designer : a four also , because , except for the wheel , we do n't have so much innovation . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the rubber is project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh a four . i i user interface : d are we including the voice are you glu are we including the voice in the end or not ? huh ? no . okay . project manager : what 's your uh grade ? marketing : four . project manager : four ? so we have four , four f and five ? marketing : we can put four ? user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , four . four , yeah , let 's put four . user interface : for twenty five . marketing : everyone is okay or four poin four . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : does n't it marketing : very easy to use . do you think it 's easy to use ? project manager : yeah , i think so . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i give a seven , i think . project manager : i would give a i would give a seven as well . it 's very easy to use . marketing : mm , six for me also . user interface : 'kay . marketing : six point five . project manager : six point five . industrial designer : six six six point five . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . is it fashion ? project manager : oh yeah , user interface : project manager : its its f its fruit fruit shape . marketing : seven ? project manager : i would say seven . and is very very nice design . marketing : yeah it 's fashion , because it 's a fruit , user interface : yeah , we can we can put a seven here . marketing : and we say that the industrial designer : yeah , seven . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , seven . project manager : yeah . seven , okay . user interface : yeah . well , we hope . industrial designer : easy to find . marketing : uh easy to find in a room ? project manager : industrial designer : i lost my banana . user interface : project manager : i think you ca n't miss it . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah ? user interface : yeah , i think it 's cool . i think we can put a six here . marketing : we have the lightning , or project manager : yeah , we have the marketing : the lighting . project manager : we do n't sesh especially have the lightning user interface : so you 'll make the material transparent project manager : but marketing : user interface : so that it uh lights up completely , or project manager : so it 's yellow . it 's okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think it 's very easy to marketing : seven ? project manager : i would say seven . it 's hard to miss it . industrial designer : six . yeah , okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : is it is it robust ? project manager : yeah , it 's rubber , made of rubber , industrial designer : uh f yeah , it 's ru it 's rubber . project manager : i think it 's m it 's uh more rubber than uh other remote control . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah the only problem there might be which know , i if it 's very sensitive , project manager : yeah . user interface : they will , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i do n't know project manager : but it is uh it is surrounded by rubber material . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , okay . project manager : so maybe we can put a six . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : everybody is okay , six . industrial designer : six or five . five project manager : six is okay ? user interface : six , yeah , for me . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : s now um so . project manager : tadada . we have to sum up everything . user interface : twenty . marketing : thirteen uh , twenty , twenty six point five , uh seven , thirty two , thirty six . user interface : thirty . thir marketing : that 's that 's okay ? six . project manager : six is a good user interface : okay . marketing : good . uh if we say that seven it 's uh it 's the better , project manager : yeah , the be . user interface : yeah , the top marketing : and when uh s six sit six are good it 's a good uh p product , i think . project manager : okay , so six is a user interface : mm . so will become eight soon ? project manager : so it 's a good evaluation , i think . it 's very promising . user interface : yeah , well it 's a bit biased . marketing : we have a good price and uh . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so this prototype is quite nice . user interface : okay . marketing : good . user interface : because i saw uh some phones that were banana shaped , uh wireless phones not mobile ones , wireless for the house , marketing : project manager : yeah . okay . user interface : uh quite big also , marketing : user interface : and they were selling something like a hundred euros , two hundred euros . project manager : user interface : just a just a phone , wireless . project manager : so having this at twenty five euros is uh quite attractive , i think . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think the industrial designer : but almo also the complexity between a phone and a remote control is not can not compare . user interface : yeah . yeah , project manager : yeah . user interface : it 's much more complex , but project manager : so , i think , we can summarise . so we have seen the prototype . it 's very nice according to the work of our two designer . industrial designer : project manager : the the the financial aspect were okay . we we have the cost below uh our threshold and so we could sell at twenty five euros and make i make profit . the the evaluation give satisfying result as well . so i think we can move to the last part of the meeting . marketing : project manager : so the cost is in the budget , the evaluation is okay , so i th i think we can now uh open champagne and make a huge party . industrial designer : start to eat banana . user interface : project manager : i do n't know if it 's provided by uh by the meeting staff . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : okay . project manager : okay so congratulation . nice product . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : congratulations to the team . uh very well , we worked together fantastically . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : i think it was a good collaboration uh . aspect . user interface : so what does the management say ? project manager : sorry ? user interface : what does the management say ? project manager : i think we will have um much bigger project next time and a much bigger salary as well . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : all it depends on who watch this meeting . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we do n't know . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , so user interface : okay . project manager : good guys , marketing : project manager : so see you for next uh successful project . industrial designer : okay . yeah . fruits . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the cost and price of the remote control product . </s> project manager : d let 's start with the cost aspect so so i look at the aspect discussed last time , that is to say uh to have a standard battery , to have a yellow banana shaped uh case with uh a rubber material around it industrial designer : project manager : to be uh to feel spongy , user interface : like a banana . project manager : and uh also at the different aspect like having a wheel etcetera . marketing : industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : and the cost ended to be ten point seven euros . so which is uh good , because we had a price gap of twelve point five euros . marketing : we have a good price and uh . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so this prototype is quite nice . user interface : okay . marketing : good . user interface : because i saw uh some phones that were banana shaped , uh wireless phones not mobile ones , wireless for the house , marketing : project manager : yeah . okay . user interface : uh quite big also , marketing : user interface : and they were selling something like a hundred euros , two hundred euros . project manager : user interface : just a just a phone , wireless . project manager : so having this at twenty five euros is uh quite attractive , i think . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think the industrial designer : but almo also the complexity between a phone and a remote control is not can not compare . user interface : yeah . yeah , project manager : yeah . user interface : it 's much more complex , but project manager : so , i think , we can summarise . so we have seen the prototype . it 's very nice according to the work of our two designer . industrial designer : </s>
<s> what did user interface think of the price of this prototype when comparing it with the same-shaped phone ? </s> marketing : we have a good price and uh . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so this prototype is quite nice . user interface : okay . marketing : good . user interface : because i saw uh some phones that were banana shaped , uh wireless phones not mobile ones , wireless for the house , marketing : project manager : yeah . okay . user interface : uh quite big also , marketing : user interface : and they were selling something like a hundred euros , two hundred euros . project manager : user interface : just a just a phone , wireless . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer disagree with user interface when discussing the price of the prototype compared with the phone ? </s> user interface : because i saw uh some phones that were banana shaped , uh wireless phones not mobile ones , wireless for the house , marketing : project manager : yeah . okay . user interface : uh quite big also , marketing : user interface : and they were selling something like a hundred euros , two hundred euros . project manager : user interface : just a just a phone , wireless . project manager : so having this at twenty five euros is uh quite attractive , i think . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah . project manager : i think the industrial designer : but almo also the complexity between a phone and a remote control is not can not compare . user interface : yeah . yeah , project manager : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the evaluation process on the prototype . </s> project manager : and we are now going to see the project evaluation with uh our marketing expert . marketing : yeah . okay . so uh you can have my project in project manager : yeah . you have a presentation ? marketing : uh yeah just a project manager : participant four , yes . marketing : four . evaluation . project manager : okay . okay . marketing : okay . so you can go . we can go through . project manager : okay . marketing : so i made an evaluation and the the evaluation criteria is made according to the users ' requirements and the market trends we talked about uh during the previous uh meetings . so you can go through and project manager : okay . marketing : okay so uh we have uh six points . we we talked about before . project manager : okay . marketing : so we we want to have a product fancy look and feel , technologically innovative , easy to use , fashion , easy to find in a room , and robust , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : uh and uh uh i have a scale of uh seven points . project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . so i go through all the uh all the points here , project manager : yeah . marketing : and uh according to what you think about the this project you can uh mm make a one point , two point or seven point . okay ? project manager : okay . marketing : and after we ha we have an an average , and uh we see . project manager : okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : the okay ? uh so uh fancy look and feel , what do you think ? project manager : okay . maybe you can presen marketing : f between o one and seven . project manager : okay . maybe hold it . marketing : project manager : so i think it 's uh very uh very nice . what do you think ? user interface : i give it a i give it a five . project manager : yeah . so it 's between one and seven ? seven is the highest uh ? marketing : yeah . seven is the project manager : i will give a six . industrial designer : i will give a a five . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and you ? marketing : sorry . user interface : do you vote uh christine ? marketing : eh ? user interface : do you also vote ? marketing : no , i just want to see something project manager : maybe we all have to agree on a common user interface : well , we can very easily . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : uh i think uh and need to as well . project manager : no problem . so user interface : marketing : need to project manager : this is your marketing : uh i do n't know if you we ha we have to put uh one uh f if it 's better or project manager : one is most . user interface : i marketing : uh-uh . project manager : well , we can choose what we want . marketing : um . yeah . project manager : okay , let 's say that seven is the best . marketing : or maybe we can say s seven is the best mm . project manager : okay . so so do note the grade we have five , six for me , industrial designer : five . project manager : five . and what what 's your choice ? marketing : oh sorry . project manager : how much would you give on the fancy aspect , on the fashionable aspect ? marketing : six uh s you can how much what ? project manager : how much would you you do n't answer to this uh questionnaire ? marketing : oh yes i mm i dunno mm , i think six , it 's a good uh user interface : so it will have five point five average . project manager : five point five average . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : wa can . industrial designer : marketing : okay . project manager : well , does it marketing : i sorry . user interface : marketing : okay . so after , the technological aspect ? project manager : okay , techne technological aspect . marketing : so we we said uh we have uh a new technological uh thing with a wheel . project manager : yeah , we have the wheel . we also have the rubber material , which make it uh like new also . i think i would give a five . user interface : it 's four . project manager : four ? industrial designer : a four also , because , except for the wheel , we do n't have so much innovation . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the rubber is project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh a four . i i user interface : d are we including the voice are you glu are we including the voice in the end or not ? huh ? no . okay . project manager : what 's your uh grade ? marketing : four . project manager : four ? so we have four , four f and five ? marketing : we can put four ? user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , four . four , yeah , let 's put four . user interface : for twenty five . marketing : everyone is okay or four poin four . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . project manager : does n't it marketing : very easy to use . do you think it 's easy to use ? project manager : yeah , i think so . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i give a seven , i think . project manager : i would give a i would give a seven as well . it 's very easy to use . marketing : mm , six for me also . user interface : 'kay . marketing : six point five . project manager : six point five . industrial designer : six six six point five . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . is it fashion ? project manager : oh yeah , user interface : project manager : its its f its fruit fruit shape . marketing : seven ? project manager : i would say seven . and is very very nice design . marketing : yeah it 's fashion , because it 's a fruit , user interface : yeah , we can we can put a seven here . marketing : and we say that the industrial designer : yeah , seven . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , seven . project manager : yeah . seven , okay . user interface : yeah . well , we hope . industrial designer : easy to find . marketing : uh easy to find in a room ? project manager : industrial designer : i lost my banana . user interface : project manager : i think you ca n't miss it . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah ? user interface : yeah , i think it 's cool . i think we can put a six here . marketing : we have the lightning , or project manager : yeah , we have the marketing : the lighting . project manager : we do n't sesh especially have the lightning user interface : so you 'll make the material transparent project manager : but marketing : user interface : so that it uh lights up completely , or project manager : so it 's yellow . it 's okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think it 's very easy to marketing : seven ? project manager : i would say seven . it 's hard to miss it . industrial designer : six . yeah , okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : is it is it robust ? project manager : yeah , it 's rubber , made of rubber , industrial designer : uh f yeah , it 's ru it 's rubber . project manager : i think it 's m it 's uh more rubber than uh other remote control . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah the only problem there might be which know , i if it 's very sensitive , project manager : yeah . user interface : they will , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i do n't know project manager : but it is uh it is surrounded by rubber material . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , okay . project manager : so maybe we can put a six . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : everybody is okay , six . industrial designer : six or five . five project manager : six is okay ? user interface : six , yeah , for me . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : s now um so . project manager : tadada . we have to sum up everything . user interface : twenty . marketing : thirteen uh , twenty , twenty six point five , uh seven , thirty two , thirty six . user interface : thirty . thir marketing : that 's that 's okay ? six . project manager : six is a good user interface : okay . marketing : good . uh if we say that seven it 's uh it 's the better , project manager : yeah , the be . user interface : yeah , the top marketing : and when uh s six sit six are good it 's a good uh p product , i think . project manager : okay , so six is a user interface : mm . so will become eight soon ? project manager : so it 's a good evaluation , i think . it 's very promising . </s>
<s> why did they give lower grades when discussing the technological aspect ? </s> marketing : okay . so after , the technological aspect ? project manager : okay , techne technological aspect . marketing : so we we said uh we have uh a new technological uh thing with a wheel . project manager : yeah , we have the wheel . we also have the rubber material , which make it uh like new also . i think i would give a five . user interface : it 's four . project manager : four ? industrial designer : a four also , because , except for the wheel , we do n't have so much innovation . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : the rubber is project manager : okay . industrial designer : uh a four . i i user interface : d are we including the voice are you glu are we including the voice in the end or not ? huh ? no . okay . project manager : what 's your uh grade ? marketing : four . project manager : four ? so we have four , four f and five ? marketing : we can put four ? user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , four . four , yeah , let 's put four . user interface : for twenty five . marketing : everyone is okay or four poin four . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> why did they agree with each other when discussing the 'easy to use ' , 'fashion ' , 'easy to find ' and 'robust ' features ? </s> project manager : does n't it marketing : very easy to use . do you think it 's easy to use ? project manager : yeah , i think so . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i give a seven , i think . project manager : i would give a i would give a seven as well . it 's very easy to use . marketing : mm , six for me also . user interface : 'kay . marketing : six point five . project manager : six point five . industrial designer : six six six point five . project manager : okay . marketing : okay . is it fashion ? project manager : oh yeah , user interface : project manager : its its f its fruit fruit shape . marketing : seven ? project manager : i would say seven . and is very very nice design . marketing : yeah it 's fashion , because it 's a fruit , user interface : yeah , we can we can put a seven here . marketing : and we say that the industrial designer : yeah , seven . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , seven . project manager : yeah . seven , okay . user interface : yeah . well , we hope . industrial designer : easy to find . marketing : uh easy to find in a room ? project manager : industrial designer : i lost my banana . user interface : project manager : i think you ca n't miss it . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah ? user interface : yeah , i think it 's cool . i think we can put a six here . marketing : we have the lightning , or project manager : yeah , we have the marketing : the lighting . project manager : we do n't sesh especially have the lightning user interface : so you 'll make the material transparent project manager : but marketing : user interface : so that it uh lights up completely , or project manager : so it 's yellow . it 's okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think it 's very easy to marketing : seven ? project manager : i would say seven . it 's hard to miss it . industrial designer : six . yeah , okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : is it is it robust ? project manager : yeah , it 's rubber , made of rubber , industrial designer : uh f yeah , it 's ru it 's rubber . project manager : i think it 's m it 's uh more rubber than uh other remote control . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah the only problem there might be which know , i if it 's very sensitive , project manager : yeah . user interface : they will , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : i do n't know project manager : but it is uh it is surrounded by rubber material . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , okay . project manager : so maybe we can put a six . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : everybody is okay , six . industrial designer : six or five . five project manager : six is okay ? user interface : six , yeah , for me . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : think we can first user interface : right it was function f_ eight or something . this one right there . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : who is gon na do a powerpoint presentation ? user interface : think we all industrial designer : you will as well ? user interface : huh . oh i thought we all were . industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah , i have one too , okay . project manager : . marketing : . user interface : whoops i forgot to put the thing on project manager : right . i just wan na 'cause basically i ca n't re i 've really crap at remembering everyone 's name so i just wan na rather than going uh miss marketing and miss this and miss that wanted to know your names again . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay i 'm project manager : just gon na leave this up here 'cause i 'll you know . so industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah . sure , that 's a good idea . industrial designer : i 'm catherine with a c_ . c_a_t_h_ e_r_ i_n_e_ . project manager : okay , and user interface : uh gabriel . project manager : gabriel . e_l_ is it ? user interface : e_l_ . project manager : 'kay . and you 're s r r_e_i_s_s_ marketing : i am reissa . r_e_i_s_s_a_ . double s_ a_ , yeah yeah . sorry . project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : 's just a bit nicer calling people by their names i think . industrial designer : right . user interface : industrial designer : true . project manager : uh , right . marketing : mm 'kay . project manager : okay , right , welcome to meeting b_ . um this is gon na go a lot better than the last meeting , basically , industrial designer : user interface : project manager : uh 'cause i know what i 'm supposed to be doing now . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : i am your project manager , and , uh yeah , i 'm just here to industrial designer : project manager : sort of liaise between the three of you and get things going , get people talking and and i 'm gon na be making notes and sending them off to the powers that be and stuff basically . um right , this for the purposes of this meeting what this meeting is all about is um i 'm gon na have some presentations from all three of you , what you 've been working on for the last wee while , when you have n't been getting hit with spam on your computers and and , you know , filling out silly questionnaires and things . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : but hopefully you 've been actually been doing something productive . so we 're gon na each of you gon na give us a litt a little presentation . um . then we 're gon na work , you know , from each of your presentations . we 'll we 'll uh talk about what we actually need as a final coming together of it all . um and then we 'll , yeah , we 'll sort of conclude anything else comes up at the end of it . industrial designer : how long is the meeting ? project manager : this meeting it 's not very long . it 's uh probably down to about thirty five minutes now . so i want each of your presentations to not be too long , five five minutes , something like that . industrial designer : okay . no problem . project manager : um if you have n't done a powerpoint thingy , it does n't matter , it it just it just says that you it 's that 's just one particular medium . if you have n't had time to prepare one , you can draw stuff on the noteboard , you can talk to us , you can you know however you want to do your little presentation , basically , you can . do n't feel pressurised into using this thing . 'cause i do n't . industrial designer : project manager : uh okay . so um . you okay over there ? reissa , marketing : i 'm fine . yeah . project manager : are you uh b are you joining in with this meeting here marketing : i uh yeah , yeah . project manager : or are y or are y or are you are you just are you just uh doing some internet shopping there ? user interface : think she 's finishing up her presentation . marketing : d i mean , i i 'm finishing off my presentation . industrial designer : marketing : no no . uh i 'm done . okay . project manager : okay , jolly good . alright , let 's have um well , we all know that it 's it 's a remote control that we 're gon na be dealing with . i think the first thing we should look at is um probably the um what it is that it is actually supposed to be . so that 's gon na be you catherine , industrial designer : okay . project manager : if we wan na hear from you first . industrial designer : okay . um just connecting this . project manager : you do n't have to worry about screwing it in just industrial designer : are we getting i really ? project manager : there you go . industrial designer : okay . cool . okay . so i 've got a very quick uh uh . okay . marketing : industrial designer : so the working design , i 've got a very quick presentation on this , so um i 've oh no , you ca n't see a thing . oh well , i 'm gon na draw it on the board then . it 's in blue uh , and i could n't change it . user interface : oh . industrial designer : we it 's fine on my screen , but never mind . so um the idea is that we 've got the energy source um , which in our case will pr , oh well okay , never mind . so um i think maybe uh two batteries , i dunno what they 're called six , or something like that . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh and then um then on the uh remote control itself will have um the sender for the signal , which could be uh an infra-red signal , um which will be sent by an electronic chip . and uh the chip will be controlled by the user interface . so we 'll hear about that later from gabriel . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh the sender will send to the telly itself an infra-red signal to tell it to switch on or switch channels . um and that 's it really for the working design . project manager : great . okay . industrial designer : sorry the presentation was n't very uh clear but project manager : i prefer the pe i prefer the human touch personally . industrial designer : really ? cool . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um , should i erase this or project manager : do you wan na just give us a moment , i just wan na copy this down . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um i dunno if you guys have got any questions for catherine on any of this ? industrial designer : fine . or suggestions ? marketing : is a battery like the only way of industrial designer : well , it 's just , you do n't want it plugged in really , s user interface : yeah , alternate energy source , like win wind power or project manager : yeah , you blow on it and i industrial designer : in indoors . marketing : no , no user interface : bicycle power . marketing : no i meant like industrial designer : marketing : no 'cause like cha 'cause always changing um um batteries can get like annoying . industrial designer : marketing : the battery 's down and maybe , i dunno , solar charged ? industrial designer : i dunno , swi i th i th i think changing your batteries once every six months is not really a pain , but project manager : yeah , it 's worked for the last fifty years you know . marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : one question i have , and i do n't know how much control we have over this is um , as far as the infra-red signal , do we have control over , you know , how far away you can be from the receiving unit , the the tv , and still have it be operational ? i mean , maybe we want one with a strong signal stream . project manager : how far away is your television ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's never gon na be more than it 's never gon na be , you kno unless you 've got a tv the size of a football pitch , it 's not does n't have to go that far , user interface : uh industrial designer : well , the thing is uh you you do n't project manager : does it ? does n't have to go through a wall , because you 're not gon na be looking through a wall . user interface : that 's true . marketing : yeah , but if like you 're on the phone in the other room and you need turn television off or something and you do n't really want to go into the put the telephone down , and go into the other room . industrial designer : well , we can make the the signal strong enough to go through walls if if you fancy it . i did n't think about that but marketing : how about bluetooth ? instead of using infra-red , use bluetooth . industrial designer : why not ? i just think that it 's it 's gon na cost more marketing : is n't that a better signal ? project manager : yeah , yeah i d it sounds like you you w do n't wan na overcomplicate things . industrial designer : and i 'm i 'm not sure it 's you 're gon na use it . marketing : mm . project manager : you know we do n't need it . industrial designer : it 's a fancy idea uh it 's quite nice , but then i do n't th i dunno , either you if you wan na watch the telly you 're in the room , project manager : yeah , exactly . industrial designer : you are gon na project manager : basically , we 're we 're desi we 're designing and marketing a television remote control unit . industrial designer : but project manager : we 're not w w w w designing something that you can plug in a headset to and and you know connect to your laptop computer and stuff . it 's uh industrial designer : oh , we can we can keep the idea if you i we can see at a later stage , maybe , i do n't marketing : 's just an idea . project manager : okay . right , well done , catherine . um gab gabriel let 's uh let 's hear from you on on on such things . user interface : okay . industrial designer : do you need the border ? user interface : uh i 'm just gon na use the powerpoint uh . industrial designer : okay . sorry . user interface : technical . okay . marketing : user interface : okay , so , while this is warming up , marketing : adjusting . user interface : there it is uh . marketing : yeah . user interface : so i 'm doing the user interface design . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , and basically uh , as far as methods , i was i was looking looking at looking at uh already existing remotes , trying to find some inspiration from designs that are already out there . thinking of what we can retain , what we can do away with , uh what we what we can perfect a little bit as far as design um . we do n't want to do something that 's too radical of a change , i guess , i mean people want a remote that 's familiar , that has their favourite functionalities um and and does the basics , but project manager : mm yeah . user interface : um so we can improve what 's out there and maintain that , the basic functionality that people want . um so things that seem like absolute must-haves uh would be a volume control , um so up-down keys for that , uh channel keys up-down , but then also a numerical key pad so that they can just key directly to the channel that they want , rather than doing up-down , and uh a mute button . uh one thing that i did n't include here , that i forgot that we talked about last time , was doing um some sort of lock uh function . project manager : okay . user interface : uh , i do n't i dunno , uh that 's one possibility . and so in the research that i was doing there 's basically two types of remotes , ones that are engineering centred and ones that are more user centred , which i do n't know if i can access the web page from here , but i can show you uh . yeah . so this is a engineer centred one , so you see it 's rather busy , but it also lets you play your movie , stop your movie , fast-forward , all this , um freeze frame . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : uh and this is a user centred one . uh it 's it 's easier to g just glance at this and see what 's possible to do , project manager : yeah . user interface : you 're not gon na be staring at it for five minutes . project manager : great . user interface : and i judging from what what we all talked about during our last meeting i kind of gathered that that 's what we were going after , uh or the direction we were going in at least . um . so , the engineering centred ones uh provide a lot of functionality , but it can be a little bit overwhelming , so the user centred ones just focus on ease of use . uh and this sort of overlaps with what the marketing person uh , reissa , marketing : user interface : because uh we we need to find out what what people want before we make firm decisions on this . project manager : yeah . marketing : . user interface : so uh , yeah , that 's me . project manager : great . okay . now that 's i just have a q a q question for you . this w um research that you 've been doing looki looking at other , you know , existing units stuff . um have you found that anyone else has do has looked into the locking function or user interface : no that that that seemed like a novel idea as f as far as i know . i mean obviously another exists like you like you said in in mobile phones . project manager : yeah . user interface : that was sort of the inspiration for it . um i 've never seen that with in in all my years in in the remote business . project manager : yeah . user interface : i 've , have n't i 've never seen a locking functionality . i dunno , what uh do you guys have a a yea or nay on that a feeling about whether that 's really necessary ? project manager : um i would say it 's if it 's simple to do , which i think it probably should be , user interface : yeah . project manager : even if it 's a physical , you know , a f a like a f a physical switch or a physical cover for the remote , even something like that , um then yes , user interface : mm-hmm . 'kay . project manager : it 's like , you know , like s you said earlier on ab ab ab a flip thing , something like that , user interface : right . project manager : but you know being physical . look into . um i 've had word down from head office that something that we should be centred well , something we should take into account is um we 've got ta keep the corporate image within this remote control unit . it 's got ta d look like it 's in the r_ and r_ . user interface : mm . project manager : you know , the the company it 's it 's , from what i can see from our other products , are yellow with blue writing on them . um . marketing : mm . user interface : right . and our motto is is we put the fashion in electronics . project manager : we put the fashion in electronics . there you go . user interface : i think i think we have to carry that mental . project manager : so it 's kinda got ta look it 's got ta look new and s you know something fashionable . if if remote control well , if telephones can be fashionable , then maybe remote control units can be . user interface : well yeah these , i think , we can so we talked about the layout in my presentation and what i did n't mention yet really is is the sort of like the ergonomic design . project manager : yeah . because we need user interface : i t i think we can make big improvements over these two that you see here , i mean . project manager : yeah . great . industrial designer : user interface : uh , everything is going t ergonomic , you know , there 's you know mice for your computers that are very ergonomic and keyboards and that could be one of our niches p sort of uh uh in the market , i guess . um . project manager : okay , fantastic . marketing : okay . project manager : right , well done , gabriel . marketing : . project manager : um reissa . let 's plug you in , baby . marketing : where does it go into ? user interface : . marketing : here ? user interface : yeah . marketing : the blue thing . user interface : uh , yeah , this is getting all . marketing : user interface : mm . marketing : . user interface : yeah , then you just have to do function f_ eight and it should come up . marketing : well , function f_ eight . no project manager : yeah , w it it just takes a wee while . user interface : yeah , it just takes a second uh . marketing : oh . come on . right . okay . . okay . well , for our marketing report uh we observed remote control users in a usability lab , and also gave so this is research and we also gave participants um questionnaires to fill out . um total number of people tested were a hundred just so you know , so that hundred people were tested and these were the findings . so seventy five per cent of users find the remote control ugly . okay , so they do n't like the look of the remote control . um eighty f eighty per cent of them would spend more money if the rem remote control looked really cool and fancy . so i think we all agree with that . um current remote controls do not match well with the operating behaviour of the user . so , they do n't like like the way they operate it does n't like match how people behave . um per cent of the users say that they only use ten per cent of the buttons on a remote , so probably if you have like one , two , three , four , five , the whole up to z ten , they probably do n't use those , they only use the up and down channel . project manager : 'cause we 've only got five channels . marketing : exactly . industrial designer : marketing : that 's another thing . um seventy five per cent of users say they zap . not quite sure what they mean , zap , goes like . project manager : i think that 's k flicking quickly between channels . user interface : yeah , you wan na navigate the channels quickly i guess . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm . um takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote . i think especially for uh the older generation . i know my grandmother does n't like mobile phones , takes ages to work how to use . anyway um and they also remotes often get lost in the room , so nobody can find them . so maybe tracking devices is a good idea . project manager : wow . marketing : um personal preferences . project manager : you are a child of technology , are n't you ? marketing : um so yeah um i was thinking something easy to use , especially for older people . um has to look really cool , flashy groovy for people to buy it . and it 's easy to find , so i do n't know whether maybe and also we asked them whether they wanted whether they 'd be interested in um voice activating . industrial designer : marketing : so voice activation . so and this was what we came up with . then if you look fifteen to twenty five this is age , sorry , age groups . so fifteen to twenty five said like ninety two ninety one per cent of them said yes . project manager : so there you go , yeah . marketing : um so basically the majority except for the forty five to fifty five year olds for some reason did n't want a voice activated one . and neither did the older generation , but the younger generation who we are catering for , like who have most of the money nowadays , do want a voice act speech recognition in a remote . industrial designer : project manager : uh but do the younger generation have the money ? they they do n't . user interface : no i would i would say the older the older people , yeah . project manager : it 's older generation , they 're the ones that have gone out and marketing : well the twenty five to thirty five year old , and thirty five , and the thirty five to forty five , forty five point seven per cent say no , so project manager : people people from the age of thirty f there 's a big drop off there . marketing : project manager : for people up to the age of thirty five , you 're kinda saying , yeah , they want it . um but no they 're not sort of most people that have the money are people from the age of thirty five to fifty five , user interface : yeah , that would be my guess as well . project manager : uh 'cause they 're the ones that have been working for twenty years . marketing : so they do n't project manager : um d and tha marketing : well project manager : and that 's a that 's quite a minority there , so yeah , it 's not even like fifty fifty that 's th thirty five per cent . marketing : these guys are growing up . user interface : what about just from the the prospective of our manufacturing cost ? i mean if if it 's twelve fifty per unit . project manager : yeah . user interface : i mean , okay , there 's marketing : voice activation might not be the best . project manager : i would say scra i 'd say scrap that straight off . marketing : um also with um with buttons , a thing called r_s_i_ , so wrist sense user interface : repetitive strain uh rep repetitive strain injury or like from doing marketing : yeah , repetitive strains injury , so they do n't i think people who watch tv maybe too often , keep changing channel hurts their wrist . industrial designer : well maybe they should n't watch so much tv then . marketing : i do n't think so . project manager : so y so it 's so it 's so you got user interface : project manager : so that 's something we should have a look into then i when desi when designing the ergonomics of marketing : yeah maybe not so hard . project manager : see have a look if um there 's any w any medical background we can find out about this . industrial designer : maybe it could be , instead of pressing button it could be just touching a marketing : yeah . project manager : let 's jus marketing : maybe project manager : we just want need to cover our arses so that people are n't gon na sue us in ten years ' time , say your remote control gave me repetitive strain injury . user interface : yeah , we should probably consult with our legal department uh . project manager : yeah . they 're having a lunch break at the moment , but yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : i 'll see if i can get see if i can get hold of them for the next meeting . user interface : yeah . i think we can do some really in in that department , the the ergonomic department , we can make some some really good improvements . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm . maybe th the buttons not so high up so you do n't have to press so much , or we just like flat buttons , something . yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : so that is me . project manager : that 's great , thank you very much for that , reissa . um okay , so we 've basically we 've decide we 've d we 've decided that it 's gon na be , you know uh , we 're going for a basic television remote . it 's got ta be safe to use , it 's got ta look cool . it 's got ta be cheap . s um . now going back to the uh industrial design of it , you know , we were looking at whether to use maybe infra-red or bluetooth . i think , we should just go with the simplest option on everything , uh and that would be infra-red , energy source , that would be batteries . uh mean we we can look into using the s , you know , the little tiny weeny batteries , all like special long-lasting batteries . um . but a in there 's no i do n't think there 's any point in making a remote control unit that 's gon na last for fifty years , because technology will have changed and , you know , we wo n't have televisions in ten years ' time . so i think we 're all um pretty sussed on that . um anyone have any questions ? everybody happy in their work ? user interface : yeah , it seems like we 're all on the pretty much on the same page . project manager : now this is good , we 've got a good structure going on . we all know where we 're going to . have you been ge has have any of you lot been getting loads of crap spam on your computers ? user interface : oh it 's probably just you , 'cause you 're the project manager . industrial designer : . project manager : marketing : well , just questionnaires . project manager : yeah . user interface : sell trying to sell your things . project manager : yeah , stuff . marketing : project manager : um okay . do oh have you guys found out if we can if we can e-mail stuff to each other ? marketing : yeah , you can . project manager : right . do all you all know my e-mail address ? user interface : okay . no i do n't . i industrial designer : well , in the project announcement , you 've got the addresses , i think . marketing : i think he 's participant one , are n't you ? industrial designer : so project manager , it 's participant one at ami . user interface : uh oh , it 's just participant one oh okay . yeah . project manager : can you all d e-mail me your e-mail addresses ? marketing : project manager : . industrial designer : you have them i you have them , user interface : well it 's just w it 's just it 's just par participant one , participant two . industrial designer : but we 'll send you an e-mail . project manager : send me , yeah industrial designer : you want to have friends , do n't you ? project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : so are we headed towards like a b a big yellow and black remote as far as maybe that 's our next meeting that we discuss that . project manager : is it yellow and black or is it yellow and blue ? i i kind of thought it was blue writing on a yellow background , but i might be just going a bit user interface : well , it 's like white on i white and blue on a black background with white with yellow borders . project manager : okay . user interface : maybe that 's like getting ahead of ourselves . project manager : well , maybe you can come up with a few with a couple of different ideas ? industrial designer : it would n't be marketing : ca n't we have different colours in the remotes , so somebody can choose different col project manager : well , see the thing is is we 've got ta keep the company image . marketing : like does it have to be of a certain ? project manager : it 's got ta say people have got ta look at this remote control and instantly recognise that it 's a real reaction i product . marketing : but if it 's a r_r_ , it would be real reaction , project manager : there 's loads of companies that called r_r_ . marketing : like if it had a symbol on it . project manager : this is slog but this is the slogan , this is the the the the type . marketing : whoa . user interface : and this is something that came on down from from the higher ups , project manager : yeah . user interface : so , i mean , we are sort of beholden to them . marketing : so we have to have it one colour . project manager : well , not necessarily . but we have to incorporate it . user interface : not one colour , but the pattern needs to be recognisable . project manager : not necessarily even if i it just has to ye but you have to look at the product and instantly know that it 's one of our products industrial designer : well you could project manager : as opposed to a sony product or a , you know , a panasonic product . it 's got to so maybe , so you can have a look at our our other products and see if they all follow a s similar vein , perhaps . industrial designer : it could come but it could come in different colours and have the r_r_ colours just somewhere project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like just around the lock button could be the r_r_ logo or colours and project manager : yeah . industrial designer : if . project manager : quite poss yeah . well this is all your department . mm okay . well , well done everybody . user interface : . project manager : and um , i think we uh stop for lunch now . user interface : yeah , pretty soon i think , i guess that 's now . marketing : are we are we finished ahead of schedule ? project manager : we might possibly have done . industrial designer : cool . user interface : alright , see you all soon . project manager : if we 've if we 've finished at five minutes before the meeting 's supposed to finish , then that means we get an extra five minutes for lunch . marketing : 'kay uh . </s>
<s> what questions did team members raise concerning industrial designer 's presentation ? </s> marketing : is a battery like the only way of industrial designer : well , it 's just , you do n't want it plugged in really , s user interface : yeah , alternate energy source , like win wind power or project manager : yeah , you blow on it and i industrial designer : in indoors . marketing : no , no user interface : bicycle power . marketing : no i meant like industrial designer : marketing : no 'cause like cha 'cause always changing um um batteries can get like annoying . industrial designer : marketing : the battery 's down and maybe , i dunno , solar charged ? industrial designer : i dunno , swi i th i th i think changing your batteries once every six months is not really a pain , but project manager : yeah , it 's worked for the last fifty years you know . marketing : mm . yeah . user interface : one question i have , and i do n't know how much control we have over this is um , as far as the infra-red signal , do we have control over , you know , how far away you can be from the receiving unit , the the tv , and still have it be operational ? i mean , maybe we want one with a strong signal stream . project manager : how far away is your television ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's never gon na be more than it 's never gon na be , you kno unless you 've got a tv the size of a football pitch , it 's not does n't have to go that far , user interface : uh industrial designer : well , the thing is uh you you do n't project manager : does it ? does n't have to go through a wall , because you 're not gon na be looking through a wall . user interface : that 's true . marketing : yeah , but if like you 're on the phone in the other room and you need turn television off or something and you do n't really want to go into the put the telephone down , and go into the other room . industrial designer : well , we can make the the signal strong enough to go through walls if if you fancy it . i did n't think about that but marketing : how about bluetooth ? instead of using infra-red , use bluetooth . industrial designer : why not ? i just think that it 's it 's gon na cost more marketing : is n't that a better signal ? project manager : yeah , yeah i d it sounds like you you w do n't wan na overcomplicate things . industrial designer : and i 'm i 'm not sure it 's you 're gon na use it . marketing : mm . project manager : you know we do n't need it . industrial designer : it 's a fancy idea uh it 's quite nice , but then i do n't th i dunno , either you if you wan na watch the telly you 're in the room , project manager : yeah , exactly . industrial designer : you are gon na project manager : basically , we 're we 're desi we 're designing and marketing a television remote control unit . industrial designer : but project manager : we 're not w w w w designing something that you can plug in a headset to and and you know connect to your laptop computer and stuff . it 's uh industrial designer : oh , we can we can keep the idea if you i we can see at a later stage , maybe , i do n't </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about user interface 's presentation ? </s> project manager : okay . right , well done , catherine . um gab gabriel let 's uh let 's hear from you on on on such things . user interface : okay . industrial designer : do you need the border ? user interface : uh i 'm just gon na use the powerpoint uh . industrial designer : okay . sorry . user interface : technical . okay . marketing : user interface : okay , so , while this is warming up , marketing : adjusting . user interface : there it is uh . marketing : yeah . user interface : so i 'm doing the user interface design . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yeah , and basically uh , as far as methods , i was i was looking looking at looking at uh already existing remotes , trying to find some inspiration from designs that are already out there . thinking of what we can retain , what we can do away with , uh what we what we can perfect a little bit as far as design um . we do n't want to do something that 's too radical of a change , i guess , i mean people want a remote that 's familiar , that has their favourite functionalities um and and does the basics , but project manager : mm yeah . user interface : um so we can improve what 's out there and maintain that , the basic functionality that people want . um so things that seem like absolute must-haves uh would be a volume control , um so up-down keys for that , uh channel keys up-down , but then also a numerical key pad so that they can just key directly to the channel that they want , rather than doing up-down , and uh a mute button . uh one thing that i did n't include here , that i forgot that we talked about last time , was doing um some sort of lock uh function . project manager : okay . user interface : uh , i do n't i dunno , uh that 's one possibility . and so in the research that i was doing there 's basically two types of remotes , ones that are engineering centred and ones that are more user centred , which i do n't know if i can access the web page from here , but i can show you uh . yeah . so this is a engineer centred one , so you see it 's rather busy , but it also lets you play your movie , stop your movie , fast-forward , all this , um freeze frame . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : uh and this is a user centred one . uh it 's it 's easier to g just glance at this and see what 's possible to do , project manager : yeah . user interface : you 're not gon na be staring at it for five minutes . project manager : great . user interface : and i judging from what what we all talked about during our last meeting i kind of gathered that that 's what we were going after , uh or the direction we were going in at least . um . so , the engineering centred ones uh provide a lot of functionality , but it can be a little bit overwhelming , so the user centred ones just focus on ease of use . uh and this sort of overlaps with what the marketing person uh , reissa , marketing : user interface : because uh we we need to find out what what people want before we make firm decisions on this . project manager : yeah . marketing : . user interface : so uh , yeah , that 's me . project manager : great . okay . now that 's i just have a q a q question for you . this w um research that you 've been doing looki looking at other , you know , existing units stuff . um have you found that anyone else has do has looked into the locking function or user interface : no that that that seemed like a novel idea as f as far as i know . i mean obviously another exists like you like you said in in mobile phones . project manager : yeah . user interface : that was sort of the inspiration for it . um i 've never seen that with in in all my years in in the remote business . project manager : yeah . user interface : i 've , have n't i 've never seen a locking functionality . i dunno , what uh do you guys have a a yea or nay on that a feeling about whether that 's really necessary ? project manager : um i would say it 's if it 's simple to do , which i think it probably should be , user interface : yeah . project manager : even if it 's a physical , you know , a f a like a f a physical switch or a physical cover for the remote , even something like that , um then yes , user interface : mm-hmm . 'kay . project manager : it 's like , you know , like s you said earlier on ab ab ab a flip thing , something like that , user interface : right . project manager : but you know being physical . look into . um i 've had word down from head office that something that we should be centred well , something we should take into account is um we 've got ta keep the corporate image within this remote control unit . it 's got ta d look like it 's in the r_ and r_ . user interface : mm . project manager : you know , the the company it 's it 's , from what i can see from our other products , are yellow with blue writing on them . um . marketing : mm . user interface : right . and our motto is is we put the fashion in electronics . project manager : we put the fashion in electronics . there you go . user interface : i think i think we have to carry that mental . project manager : so it 's kinda got ta look it 's got ta look new and s you know something fashionable . if if remote control well , if telephones can be fashionable , then maybe remote control units can be . user interface : well yeah these , i think , we can so we talked about the layout in my presentation and what i did n't mention yet really is is the sort of like the ergonomic design . project manager : yeah . because we need user interface : i t i think we can make big improvements over these two that you see here , i mean . project manager : yeah . great . industrial designer : user interface : uh , everything is going t ergonomic , you know , there 's you know mice for your computers that are very ergonomic and keyboards and that could be one of our niches p sort of uh uh in the market , i guess . um . project manager : okay , fantastic . marketing : okay . project manager : right , well done , gabriel . marketing : . project manager : um reissa . let 's plug you in , baby . marketing : where does it go into ? user interface : . marketing : here ? user interface : yeah . marketing : the blue thing . user interface : uh , yeah , this is getting all . marketing : user interface : mm . marketing : . user interface : yeah , then you just have to do function f_ eight and it should come up . marketing : well , function f_ eight . no project manager : yeah , w it it just takes a wee while . </s>
<s> what did the team think of the locking function when discussing user interface 's presentation on the layout of the remote control ? </s> project manager : great . okay . now that 's i just have a q a q question for you . this w um research that you 've been doing looki looking at other , you know , existing units stuff . um have you found that anyone else has do has looked into the locking function or user interface : no that that that seemed like a novel idea as f as far as i know . i mean obviously another exists like you like you said in in mobile phones . project manager : yeah . user interface : that was sort of the inspiration for it . um i 've never seen that with in in all my years in in the remote business . project manager : yeah . user interface : i 've , have n't i 've never seen a locking functionality . i dunno , what uh do you guys have a a yea or nay on that a feeling about whether that 's really necessary ? project manager : um i would say it 's if it 's simple to do , which i think it probably should be , user interface : yeah . project manager : even if it 's a physical , you know , a f a like a f a physical switch or a physical cover for the remote , even something like that , um then yes , user interface : mm-hmm . 'kay . project manager : it 's like , you know , like s you said earlier on ab ab ab a flip thing , something like that , </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about marketing 's presentation ? </s> marketing : oh . come on . right . okay . . okay . well , for our marketing report uh we observed remote control users in a usability lab , and also gave so this is research and we also gave participants um questionnaires to fill out . um total number of people tested were a hundred just so you know , so that hundred people were tested and these were the findings . so seventy five per cent of users find the remote control ugly . okay , so they do n't like the look of the remote control . um eighty f eighty per cent of them would spend more money if the rem remote control looked really cool and fancy . so i think we all agree with that . um current remote controls do not match well with the operating behaviour of the user . so , they do n't like like the way they operate it does n't like match how people behave . um per cent of the users say that they only use ten per cent of the buttons on a remote , so probably if you have like one , two , three , four , five , the whole up to z ten , they probably do n't use those , they only use the up and down channel . project manager : 'cause we 've only got five channels . marketing : exactly . industrial designer : marketing : that 's another thing . um seventy five per cent of users say they zap . not quite sure what they mean , zap , goes like . project manager : i think that 's k flicking quickly between channels . user interface : yeah , you wan na navigate the channels quickly i guess . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm . um takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote . i think especially for uh the older generation . i know my grandmother does n't like mobile phones , takes ages to work how to use . anyway um and they also remotes often get lost in the room , so nobody can find them . so maybe tracking devices is a good idea . project manager : wow . marketing : um personal preferences . project manager : you are a child of technology , are n't you ? marketing : um so yeah um i was thinking something easy to use , especially for older people . um has to look really cool , flashy groovy for people to buy it . and it 's easy to find , so i do n't know whether maybe and also we asked them whether they wanted whether they 'd be interested in um voice activating . industrial designer : marketing : so voice activation . so and this was what we came up with . then if you look fifteen to twenty five this is age , sorry , age groups . so fifteen to twenty five said like ninety two ninety one per cent of them said yes . project manager : so there you go , yeah . marketing : um so basically the majority except for the forty five to fifty five year olds for some reason did n't want a voice activated one . and neither did the older generation , but the younger generation who we are catering for , like who have most of the money nowadays , do want a voice act speech recognition in a remote . industrial designer : project manager : uh but do the younger generation have the money ? they they do n't . user interface : no i would i would say the older the older people , yeah . project manager : it 's older generation , they 're the ones that have gone out and marketing : well the twenty five to thirty five year old , and thirty five , and the thirty five to forty five , forty five point seven per cent say no , so project manager : people people from the age of thirty f there 's a big drop off there . marketing : project manager : for people up to the age of thirty five , you 're kinda saying , yeah , they want it . um but no they 're not sort of most people that have the money are people from the age of thirty five to fifty five , user interface : yeah , that would be my guess as well . project manager : uh 'cause they 're the ones that have been working for twenty years . marketing : so they do n't project manager : um d and tha marketing : well project manager : and that 's a that 's quite a minority there , so yeah , it 's not even like fifty fifty that 's th thirty five per cent . marketing : these guys are growing up . user interface : what about just from the the prospective of our manufacturing cost ? i mean if if it 's twelve fifty per unit . project manager : yeah . user interface : i mean , okay , there 's marketing : voice activation might not be the best . project manager : i would say scra i 'd say scrap that straight off . marketing : um also with um with buttons , a thing called r_s_i_ , so wrist sense user interface : repetitive strain uh rep repetitive strain injury or like from doing marketing : yeah , repetitive strains injury , so they do n't i think people who watch tv maybe too often , keep changing channel hurts their wrist . industrial designer : well maybe they should n't watch so much tv then . marketing : i do n't think so . project manager : so y so it 's so it 's so you got user interface : project manager : so that 's something we should have a look into then i when desi when designing the ergonomics of marketing : yeah maybe not so hard . project manager : see have a look if um there 's any w any medical background we can find out about this . industrial designer : maybe it could be , instead of pressing button it could be just touching a marketing : yeah . project manager : let 's jus marketing : maybe project manager : we just want need to cover our arses so that people are n't gon na sue us in ten years ' time , say your remote control gave me repetitive strain injury . user interface : yeah , we should probably consult with our legal department uh . project manager : yeah . they 're having a lunch break at the moment , but yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . project manager : i 'll see if i can get see if i can get hold of them for the next meeting . user interface : yeah . i think we can do some really in in that department , the the ergonomic department , we can make some some really good improvements . project manager : yeah . marketing : mm . maybe th the buttons not so high up so you do n't have to press so much , or we just like flat buttons , something . yeah . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> what was the conclusion and summary that project manager extracted after the three presentations from team members ? </s> project manager : that 's great , thank you very much for that , reissa . um okay , so we 've basically we 've decide we 've d we 've decided that it 's gon na be , you know uh , we 're going for a basic television remote . it 's got ta be safe to use , it 's got ta look cool . it 's got ta be cheap . s um . now going back to the uh industrial design of it , you know , we were looking at whether to use maybe infra-red or bluetooth . i think , we should just go with the simplest option on everything , uh and that would be infra-red , energy source , that would be batteries . uh mean we we can look into using the s , you know , the little tiny weeny batteries , all like special long-lasting batteries . um . but a in there 's no i do n't think there 's any point in making a remote control unit that 's gon na last for fifty years , because technology will have changed and , you know , we wo n't have televisions in ten years ' time . so i think we 're all um pretty sussed on that . um anyone have any questions ? everybody happy in their work ? user interface : yeah , it seems like we 're all on the pretty much on the same page . project manager : now this is good , we 've got a good structure going on . we all know where we 're going to . have you been ge has have any of you lot been getting loads of crap spam on your computers ? user interface : oh it 's probably just you , 'cause you 're the project manager . industrial designer : . project manager : marketing : well , just questionnaires . project manager : yeah . user interface : sell trying to sell your things . project manager : yeah , stuff . </s>
<s> what did the team discuss about the appearance of their remote controls ? </s> marketing : ca n't we have different colours in the remotes , so somebody can choose different col project manager : well , see the thing is is we 've got ta keep the company image . marketing : like does it have to be of a certain ? project manager : it 's got ta say people have got ta look at this remote control and instantly recognise that it 's a real reaction i product . marketing : but if it 's a r_r_ , it would be real reaction , project manager : there 's loads of companies that called r_r_ . marketing : like if it had a symbol on it . project manager : this is slog but this is the slogan , this is the the the the type . marketing : whoa . user interface : and this is something that came on down from from the higher ups , project manager : yeah . user interface : so , i mean , we are sort of beholden to them . marketing : so we have to have it one colour . project manager : well , not necessarily . but we have to incorporate it . user interface : not one colour , but the pattern needs to be recognisable . project manager : not necessarily even if i it just has to ye but you have to look at the product and instantly know that it 's one of our products industrial designer : well you could project manager : as opposed to a sony product or a , you know , a panasonic product . it 's got to so maybe , so you can have a look at our our other products and see if they all follow a s similar vein , perhaps . industrial designer : it could come but it could come in different colours and have the r_r_ colours just somewhere project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like just around the lock button could be the r_r_ logo or colours and </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : it 's play-doh . project manager : play-doh 's edible . did you know that ? it 's definitely marketing : because kids yeah . industrial designer : i used to eat it . user interface : i 've , i 've definitely eaten it before . i did n't know was edible . . project manager : yeah . it 's it 's chew proof . marketing : but um , it 's it 's made edible 'cause , yeah . it 's made edible 'cause kids eat it , project manager : yeah . marketing : and if it 's was n't edible then well , normal babies . user interface : actually that makes sense , because i remember like , peopl i dunno if my mom ever did it but i remember other people 's moms making like home-made play-doh where you just like make the colouring and make some sort of sort of dough . project manager : yeah . marketing : oh yeah it is , yeah . oh yeah . project manager : right . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : everybody everybody ready ? user interface : yeah . project manager : okay , let 's have your um let 's get have the uh presentation ? industrial designer : user interface : we 've got some . industrial designer : we 've got a cool prototype . user interface : yeah , it 's pretty exciting . so , everything uh that we wanted we wanted it to be ergonomic and to be made out of rubber , very simple and easy to use , industrial designer : double curved . project manager : nice . user interface : yeah , double curved , marketing : user interface : um but also something that was gon na jump out at people , something that would be different uh , separate it from the other remotes out on the market . so uh i think if you put this in the palm of your hand , you 'll see what a nice thing we have going here . project manager : marketing : that is cool . user interface : so , basically , if you hold it like that , the one on your thumb , yeah , the thumb button is the power button . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : your index finger is channel up , middle finger is channel down , ring finger is volume up , your pinkie is volume down . marketing : what 's the big blue thing ? user interface : that 's the lock button , has a l_ l_ on it marketing : oh cool . user interface : and then the m_ is a mute button . and then it also has digit project manager : what button ? um . oh mute . user interface : for muting the uh marketing : and mute . user interface : um and then then you can also there 's a numeric keypad on the top so you can key directly to the to the channel if you want . marketing : project manager : okay . user interface : so it 's really basic functionalities as far as what keys are available , but we think it 's very comfortable and very innovative and it looks different . project manager : that certainly does . marketing : user interface : so all the , i mean the important keys are right at your f f you know right at uh at a convenient place for you to to access them . industrial designer : which is ant anti-r_s_i_ . user interface : so you do n't you yeah . it should be . and it 's also conformable to the size of your hand . i mean if that 's too big , it 's a rubber remote , so you can , you know project manager : yeah . 's great . user interface : change that . so d does that uh what mesh with what you guys were hoping and for and expecting or does it marketing : oh it 's so cute . industrial designer : project manager : i have one thing about it , but it 's a small thing , but it 'd mean we 'd have to make a right-handed one and a left-handed one . industrial designer : oh right , yeah . user interface : ah , that 's good thinking , yeah . project manager : but , that 's i do n't see why that 's not possible . user interface : yeah , if we build rocket ships why ca n't we build left-handed and right-handed uh remotes . project manager : yeah . they make left-handed scissors , you know . user interface : yeah , i did n't i did n't think about that , but i 'd yeah , . marketing : yeah , but then but then you can learn to use your right h like i was just thinking if there 's left-handers and right-handers in the family , what , they have two remotes ? industrial designer : yeah , i know i know people who have left-handed and right-handed people in the family and they all use the computer for the whole the same computer the fes family and they have a mouse , and everybody is using right-handed mouse . project manager : mm . sure . sure . marketing : yeah , i 'm sure they 'll be able to user interface : uh-huh . marketing : i mean it 's only pressing buttons , you do n't have to do anything , you know , extraordinary . i think everybody can press a button with their left and right hand so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : imagine d are you right handed ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : imagine you 're doing it with your left hand , i do n't think it 's too marketing : yeah , it 's not industrial designer : but we can have both uh marketing : yeah . have them in stock . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : make 'em more appealing as well . project manager : but um other than that , i mean uh and that 's um , you know , that 's just something , i think i think it 's great , yeah , great idea . user interface : do you think it says r_r_ ? industrial designer : i think it does . user interface : project manager : i think it 's , well , if the r_r_ motto is , we bring fashion to to electronics , i 'd say that could be quite fashionable . user interface : fashion to electronics . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . and it 's got the b the black and yellow and blue . project manager : yeah . user interface : plus red , which is sort of a a fruit and vegetable uh uh . project manager : yeah . marketing : . industrial designer : there you go . user interface : so that 's that 's our end of things wha uh project manager : yeah , very good , yeah . user interface : that 's project manager : it 's come up with what we 've you know , the things that 's what we 've what we were looking at doing , has n't it , all seems to be there . user interface : yeah . project manager : well done . marketing : and all the playing around is uh project manager : um before we move on marketing : yeah , i 'm just do you wan na plug in ? project manager : i need that cable . marketing : okay . project manager : thank you . yeah . um . one thing i do need to do we need to look at , is the costs . user interface : the costs , was that what you said ? industrial designer : play-doh is very cheap . project manager : well , yeah . user interface : project manager : um marketing : play-doh wo n't last very long everybody 'll go like , oops , it 's gone . user interface : but it 's edible . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : chew proof . user interface : marketing : well , they 'll buy more of them if you eat them , . user interface : that was the main criteria from the last meeting , it had to be chew proof . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . uh right . okay , now i think we 'll do this i could do you know , i can do this o on my own or i could do it with you , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : oh ho-ho . project manager : but it 's just easy enough to go through it with you , so we 're going for the kinetic power . and the electronics , we decided on it being just a simple , the easiest thing that 's inside it . ooh . industrial designer : project manager : so the case , we 've gone for the double curved . um and it 's made out of rubber . the interface is push-buttons . and button supplements well they 're in diff special colours , are n't they ? marketing : yeah . project manager : so special colours . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's better for project manager : special form , yeah , they 're a special form there in shapes and stuff . user interface : yeah , i mean , these these ones on the side are curved kind of , so marketing : and special material . project manager : yep . yeah . um . are they made out of any special material ? industrial designer : rubber . project manager : no they 're not . they 're not made out of wood or titanium or rubber or anything , they 're just simple user interface : the buttons are rubber . marketing : well they 're rubber , are n't they ? project manager : okay . right . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so let 's see if that comes within budget . and it does . that is gon na cost uh industrial designer : . marketing : we 're under budget . project manager : yeah . that 's gon na cost ten ten euro seventy cents a unit to make . and our target was it had to come in at under twelve fifty . user interface : that 's cool . yeah . yeah . and we 're actua actually making a better profit than we expected . project manager : this is all very very good . the bosses will be very pleased . user interface : project manager : okay , let 's just save this so i can e-mail it to you . uh . marketing : project manager : save it in save it in the uh my documents . marketing : it 's already saved , i think . project manager : splendid . okay . so uh , that 's done with this with this um doodah , so you 're . gon na do what you were gon na do , marketing : thank you . mm . project manager : your evaluation . marketing : oh , yeah . this is where we all get to i get to write on the , oops , on the board . right . project manager : marketing : oh . 's function project manager : f_ eight . marketing : okay . project manager : i love the smell of that play-doh . user interface : yeah , project manager : i cou . user interface : have some have some . marketing : okay . so , evaluation . we 're gon na do it all together so we evaluate each criteria . i 've got the criterias . and we have to do it on a scale of one to seven , one being true , so it 's it 's more like it 's fits the criteria , and seven being as in it does n't fit the criteria . and the criterias are , and i 'll draw this up on the board so we have a box . and this is false , this is just like to keep you informed . so seven 's here and one 's here and then you 've got in the middle . so the first criteria . do you all get what we 're doing ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay , cool . okay , first criteria , look and feel . so the does remote look and feel fashionable to what we talked about ? as it is it colour-wise and is it spongy ? so what mark should we give for that ? project manager : i would give it a seven . user interface : yeah . marketing : as in it 's not . project manager : oh sorry , one , d yeah . user interface : oh , sorry , one . industrial designer : a one . marketing : a one a one . so i 'll just write criteria criteria one we get one . second criteria , new technology . have we implemented new technology ? as in the new high-tech industrial designer : well , the kinetic thing , yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . that was our main technological innovation w every everything else was fairly simple , but the fact that we used the kinetic energy was new . project manager : . marketing : so it 's . so we 'll give it a industrial designer : well so the um user interface : it 's ergonomic , marketing : user interface : but that 's not that 's that 's a design that 's a des that 's a design thing , yeah . project manager : yeah , but that 's not a technological thing , that 's another thing , i that 's another marketing thing . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . yeah . true . project manager : so on the technical side of it it marketing : yeah . i 'd say it 's about a a twoish ? user interface : it 's about in the mid in the middle somewhere , maybe , yeah , i dunno . marketing : three . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : maybe three , yeah . marketing : three . so criteria three is is it easy to use ? project manager : easy to use . marketing : i think it 's a one , i think . project manager : i 'd say it 's i would n't user interface : yeah . project manager : not if you 're left-handed it 's not . i would give it a i would give it a two , 'cause i i it i it i it is more geared for right-handed people than left-handed people , but marketing : so it 's user interface : okay . marketing : but if we make a right-handed and a left-handed then ? user interface : if we 're gon na have one left-handed and one right-handed then i would give it a one , but otherwise otherwise a two . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : give it a t give it a two . marketing : yeah , okay . 'kay , criteria four is costs . project manager : cost . it 's come in under budget . marketing : 's great . project manager : so that 's a definite one . user interface : yeah . that was great . marketing : yeah . project manager : amount of buttons . marketing : like the amount of buttons , project manager : contains only the necessary buttons . marketing : 'cause people like a lot le like so it 's a one ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : um criteria six . r_s_i_ is it good against ? industrial designer : yes s yeah . marketing : yes . very good . project manager : so it 's anti-r_s_i_ . marketing : it 's one . and criteria seven , which is the last one , does it get lost ? industrial designer : it 's yellow . marketing : is it easy to get lost ? project manager : i do n't think it 's gon na get lost easily . user interface : it is very bright , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : no ? but it is smallish . user interface : it 's not the kinda thing that 's gon na slip like between a couch cushion or something , you know . maybe it will . uh . marketing : mm . i think i it would , could be , could get lost . user interface : you think it could lost project manager : two . marketing : mm . yeah . project manager : i mean it marketing : i mean it 's not fully it 's not fully like you ca n't say project manager : no , i mean marketing : i mean , it 's not a one , definitely . project manager : i mean , you could still flush it down the toilet theoretically , but user interface : okay . yeah , anything , i mean . okay . it 's bigger than the average mobile , i guess . marketing : yeah . user interface : but , yeah , it can get lost . marketing : the mobiles get lost all the time . user interface : yeah . okay , yeah , two is fine . marketing : but then you ring 'em and you find them . so industrial designer : mm . mm . user interface : yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . so , that 's that . so that 's the evaluation , so i 'd say yay . project manager : alright it 's all all systems go . industrial designer : we 've , we 've done well . marketing : it 's like like a number one . um . user interface : yeah . marketing : number one product . project manager : we ca n't fail . marketing : all done , thanks . we fitted all the criterias . project manager : marketing : yeah . project manager : . marketing : yeah , so project manager : well done , reissa . marketing : so that 's that one . project manager : okay , i i think um i just wan na put in as project manager the you know , little bit of praise for everybody here for how they 've worked on it , user interface : project manager : you know , both individually and as a team . you know you 've w everyone 's come up with their own individual ideas in their own different departments , um and then come together and worked in , you know , integrally , you know , at the right times , psp , you know , especially you two . marketing : project manager : that 's all , you know , gone very very well user interface : yeah . project manager : and and and be you know , has been good communication going on . user interface : yeah , during our design i mean there was some s some heated heated discussion , industrial designer : user interface : but we we kept we tried to keep it cool and and project manager : did you have to go down to the the corporate squash court and bash a few balls about ? marketing : user interface : just just industrial designer : well . user interface : we just had to we just had to squeeze our product a little bit and marketing : industrial designer : you know project manager : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : fantastic . industrial designer : it is . user interface : now you guys have been a a great team . think we 're the we 're the envy of all the of all the other r_r_ teams , . marketing : been cool . project manager : i think so marketing : project manager : i i , you know , and i think we 've co we have come we 've come up with something new , something that has n't been done before , we have n't we 're not just rehashing an old design . marketing : in four diff in in four meetings . project manager : yeah . marketing : funny , all designer meetings could be this quick . project manager : you know , maybe this is n't a simulation , maybe this is actually so it 's like sony or someone like that they 're they 're just , yeah , they get marketing : user interface : yeah i think they 're actually trying to find ideas for a ideal remote . marketing : they 're using our ideas . user interface : project manager : yeah . yeah , two years ' time this will be on the market . user interface : project manager : ex exactly that product marketing : user interface : project manager : um thum we 'll go , yeah , we designed that and no-one will believe us . user interface : marketing : project manager : but um user interface : so at this stage , i mean , is this the last meeting of the project ? we do n't uh have another one after it 's gone gone to marke market or something ? marketing : yeah . project manager : i think when this meeting 's finished like officially , there b we 'll get a uh questionnaire to fill in . marketing : industrial designer : y oh really ? user interface : project manager : or six , uh marketing : just start summarising now . you can reply to the same message . project manager : i have n't got message . marketing : see summary , there . if you just reply to that one . user interface : so there 's no way to like predict what our 'cause we had a we originally had a as far as our financial uh um goals , we had a specific number for profits that we wanted . it was fifty mil fifty million marketing : was it was it fifty or five ? user interface : i do n't remember . but there 's not a way to compute that , i mean , since we saved on the on the production cost , do we know how much we 're making on profit ? project manager : it gets handed over to another department . marketing : depends how much we sell . project manager : what our what our project was was to come up with the product , basically . the for the and just basically is it it come can is it within budget . when it c when it comes to all the other things of how to sell it and , you know , the b the profits and all that that 's other departments it 's another team that actually work out the mai the user interface : but we have a vested interest project manager : oh yeah , the all the guys in the profit sharing , yeah . user interface : prof profit sharing . project manager : um . yeah , that 's it . you know , we 've we 've we 've made i we 've made marketing : we finished an hour earlier . project manager : we 've designed the product , we 've ma we 've got the prototype , it 's within budget , it 's does everything that we wanted it to do . it 's new , it 's it 's um something that uh that is n't out there already . user interface : i think actually and one advantage of of this is that after the uh , you know , after this fad of fruit and vegetables passes this will still be c a cool remote , you know . we 're not we 're not you know , tying tying our cart to that one horse . project manager : yeah . well , this is very marketable in that it is it 's it 's something that 's kind of new and looks a bit quirky for people who want that , marketing : definitely . project manager : it 's that it 's um , hang on , i wrote it down here somewhere industrial designer : user interface : project manager : oh no i thi i put it in one of my e-mails that i sent off . um that , you know , it 's marketable in the sense that it 's whilst all these other remotes uh actually do give you repetitive strain injury , our one does the complete opposite , you know , user interface : mm . mm . project manager : so that 's something that 's new , which is one of the criteria they asked us to come up with something with something new . user interface : mm . it make watching tv healthy . project manager : yeah , and if you 're not having a good time with the tv , you can f throw it about , you know . marketing : yeah . user interface : project manager : it 's fine , it 's kid proof . marketing : just do n't sh do n't throw it at any of the ornaments and break them . project manager : well , you can break the ornaments , but you wo n't break that . marketing : no . project manager : yeah . so all in all , i think we 've done very well . industrial designer : mm yep . project manager : well done everybody . user interface : right , you too . project manager : um . drinks are on the company . user interface : industrial designer : cool . marketing : project manager : in the corporate bar that 's next to the corporate swimming pool on the top floor that we 're that 've all just gained access to . user interface : mm . industrial designer : glad to hear that . project manager : yeah . that 's it . user interface : that 's it . project manager : well , as far as i t as far as i know . um . marketing : yep . we have n't got the five minute left thing yet . project manager : no . anyone wan na play i spy ? marketing : mm mm . industrial designer : user interface : i guess it 's probably better that we wrap it up than have five minutes of silence . should we call the day then ? project manager : yeah , i guess . i mean we 're gon na get asked to fill out another questionnaire . user interface : uh , right . project manager : um . it 's probably gon na be the same as one we 've done before . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : but i 'm not the authority to say that it is . marketing : in project . project manager : um how does everyone feel about the technology that 's been used in this ? the sort of using of the the pens and writing on these special pads and all that ? marketing : i love it . i love it . i think it 's cool . user interface : marketing : being all wired up and a vibrating pen and it 's cool . project manager : marketing : being watched . um project manager : industrial designer : user interface : marketing : user interface : your moment to shine . project manager : yeah . marketing : wow . project manager : i thi you know , i 'd i 'd n yeah , as we said earlier , i 've not never seen that before . something that t the whiteboard industrial designer : yeah . project manager : thingy , that 's great . um , but a p a pen with a camera on it , i do n't think it 's such a new thing . i mean it 's i or in such a new idea . it would be different if it was sort of hand writing recognition stuff , but as it 's not industrial designer : yeah . project manager : it 's literally that 'll come up on a computer screen as a picture file rather than actual text . user interface : right , i think they do want to do hand writing recognition on that , it 's just the first step . project manager : yeah . yeah . mm . user interface : marketing : logitech . user interface : i guess we should end this , since we 're off off topic . so . shall we marketing : yeah . meeting adjourned . user interface : right . project manager : industrial designer : </s>
<s> what was the appearance of the prototype as shared in the presentation ? </s> user interface : yeah , it 's pretty exciting . so , everything uh that we wanted we wanted it to be ergonomic and to be made out of rubber , very simple and easy to use , industrial designer : double curved . project manager : nice . user interface : yeah , double curved , marketing : user interface : um but also something that was gon na jump out at people , something that would be different uh , separate it from the other remotes out on the market . so uh i think if you put this in the palm of your hand , you 'll see what a nice thing we have going here . project manager : marketing : that is cool . user interface : so it 's really basic functionalities as far as what keys are available , but we think it 's very comfortable and very innovative and it looks different . project manager : that certainly does . marketing : user interface : so all the , i mean the important keys are right at your f f you know right at uh at a convenient place for you to to access them . industrial designer : which is ant anti-r_s_i_ . user interface : so you do n't you yeah . it should be . and it 's also conformable to the size of your hand . i mean if that 's too big , it 's a rubber remote , so you can , you know do you think it says r_r_ ? industrial designer : i think it does . user interface : project manager : i think it 's , well , if the r_r_ motto is , we bring fashion to to electronics , i 'd say that could be quite fashionable . user interface : fashion to electronics . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . and it 's got the b the black and yellow and blue . project manager : yeah . user interface : plus red , which is sort of a a fruit and vegetable uh uh . </s>
<s> what buttons were on the prototype as shared in the presentation ? </s> user interface : so , basically , if you hold it like that , the one on your thumb , yeah , the thumb button is the power button . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : your index finger is channel up , middle finger is channel down , ring finger is volume up , your pinkie is volume down . marketing : what 's the big blue thing ? user interface : that 's the lock button , has a l_ l_ on it marketing : oh cool . user interface : and then the m_ is a mute button . and then it also has digit project manager : what button ? um . oh mute . user interface : for muting the uh marketing : and mute . user interface : um and then then you can also there 's a numeric keypad on the top so you can key directly to the to the channel if you want . marketing : </s>
<s> what did the team think of project manager 's suggestion of making a right- and left-handed remote during the presentation of the prototype ? </s> project manager : i have one thing about it , but it 's a small thing , but it 'd mean we 'd have to make a right-handed one and a left-handed one . industrial designer : oh right , yeah . user interface : ah , that 's good thinking , yeah . project manager : but , that 's i do n't see why that 's not possible . user interface : yeah , if we build rocket ships why ca n't we build left-handed and right-handed uh remotes . project manager : yeah . they make left-handed scissors , you know . user interface : yeah , i did n't i did n't think about that , but i 'd yeah , . marketing : yeah , but then but then you can learn to use your right h like i was just thinking if there 's left-handers and right-handers in the family , what , they have two remotes ? industrial designer : yeah , i know i know people who have left-handed and right-handed people in the family and they all use the computer for the whole the same computer the fes family and they have a mouse , and everybody is using right-handed mouse . project manager : mm . sure . sure . marketing : yeah , i 'm sure they 'll be able to user interface : uh-huh . marketing : i mean it 's only pressing buttons , you do n't have to do anything , you know , extraordinary . i think everybody can press a button with their left and right hand so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : imagine d are you right handed ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : imagine you 're doing it with your left hand , i do n't think it 's too marketing : yeah , it 's not industrial designer : but we can have both uh marketing : yeah . have them in stock . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> would the remote come under budget as the cost of it was discussed ? </s> project manager : thank you . yeah . um . one thing i do need to do we need to look at , is the costs . user interface : the costs , was that what you said ? industrial designer : play-doh is very cheap . project manager : well , yeah . user interface : project manager : um marketing : play-doh wo n't last very long everybody 'll go like , oops , it 's gone . user interface : but it 's edible . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : chew proof . user interface : marketing : well , they 'll buy more of them if you eat them , . user interface : that was the main criteria from the last meeting , it had to be chew proof . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . uh right . okay , now i think we 'll do this i could do you know , i can do this o on my own or i could do it with you , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : oh ho-ho . project manager : but it 's just easy enough to go through it with you , so we 're going for the kinetic power . and the electronics , we decided on it being just a simple , the easiest thing that 's inside it . ooh . industrial designer : project manager : so the case , we 've gone for the double curved . um and it 's made out of rubber . the interface is push-buttons . and button supplements well they 're in diff special colours , are n't they ? marketing : yeah . project manager : so special colours . user interface : yeah . marketing : it 's better for project manager : special form , yeah , they 're a special form there in shapes and stuff . user interface : yeah , i mean , these these ones on the side are curved kind of , so marketing : and special material . project manager : yep . yeah . um . are they made out of any special material ? industrial designer : rubber . project manager : no they 're not . they 're not made out of wood or titanium or rubber or anything , they 're just simple user interface : the buttons are rubber . marketing : well they 're rubber , are n't they ? project manager : okay . right . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so let 's see if that comes within budget . and it does . that is gon na cost uh industrial designer : . marketing : we 're under budget . project manager : yeah . that 's gon na cost ten ten euro seventy cents a unit to make . and our target was it had to come in at under twelve fifty . user interface : that 's cool . yeah . yeah . and we 're actua actually making a better profit than we expected . </s>
<s> summarize the evaluation of the remote . </s> marketing : okay . so , evaluation . we 're gon na do it all together so we evaluate each criteria . i 've got the criterias . and we have to do it on a scale of one to seven , one being true , so it 's it 's more like it 's fits the criteria , and seven being as in it does n't fit the criteria . and the criterias are , and i 'll draw this up on the board so we have a box . and this is false , this is just like to keep you informed . so seven 's here and one 's here and then you 've got in the middle . so the first criteria . do you all get what we 're doing ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay , cool . okay , first criteria , look and feel . so the does remote look and feel fashionable to what we talked about ? as it is it colour-wise and is it spongy ? so what mark should we give for that ? project manager : i would give it a seven . user interface : yeah . marketing : as in it 's not . project manager : oh sorry , one , d yeah . user interface : oh , sorry , one . industrial designer : a one . marketing : a one a one . so i 'll just write criteria criteria one we get one . second criteria , new technology . have we implemented new technology ? as in the new high-tech industrial designer : well , the kinetic thing , yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . that was our main technological innovation w every everything else was fairly simple , but the fact that we used the kinetic energy was new . project manager : . marketing : so it 's . so we 'll give it a industrial designer : well so the um user interface : it 's ergonomic , marketing : user interface : but that 's not that 's that 's a design that 's a des that 's a design thing , yeah . project manager : yeah , but that 's not a technological thing , that 's another thing , i that 's another marketing thing . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . yeah . true . project manager : so on the technical side of it it marketing : yeah . i 'd say it 's about a a twoish ? user interface : it 's about in the mid in the middle somewhere , maybe , yeah , i dunno . marketing : three . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : maybe three , yeah . marketing : three . so criteria three is is it easy to use ? project manager : easy to use . marketing : i think it 's a one , i think . project manager : i 'd say it 's i would n't user interface : yeah . project manager : not if you 're left-handed it 's not . i would give it a i would give it a two , 'cause i i it i it i it is more geared for right-handed people than left-handed people , but marketing : so it 's user interface : okay . marketing : but if we make a right-handed and a left-handed then ? user interface : if we 're gon na have one left-handed and one right-handed then i would give it a one , but otherwise otherwise a two . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : give it a t give it a two . marketing : yeah , okay . 'kay , criteria four is costs . project manager : cost . it 's come in under budget . marketing : 's great . project manager : so that 's a definite one . user interface : yeah . that was great . marketing : yeah . project manager : amount of buttons . marketing : like the amount of buttons , project manager : contains only the necessary buttons . marketing : 'cause people like a lot le like so it 's a one ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : um criteria six . r_s_i_ is it good against ? industrial designer : yes s yeah . marketing : yes . very good . project manager : so it 's anti-r_s_i_ . marketing : it 's one . and criteria seven , which is the last one , does it get lost ? industrial designer : it 's yellow . marketing : is it easy to get lost ? project manager : i do n't think it 's gon na get lost easily . user interface : it is very bright , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : no ? but it is smallish . user interface : it 's not the kinda thing that 's gon na slip like between a couch cushion or something , you know . maybe it will . uh . marketing : mm . i think i it would , could be , could get lost . user interface : you think it could lost project manager : two . marketing : mm . yeah . project manager : i mean it marketing : i mean it 's not fully it 's not fully like you ca n't say project manager : no , i mean marketing : i mean , it 's not a one , definitely . project manager : i mean , you could still flush it down the toilet theoretically , but user interface : okay . yeah , anything , i mean . okay . it 's bigger than the average mobile , i guess . marketing : yeah . user interface : but , yeah , it can get lost . marketing : the mobiles get lost all the time . user interface : yeah . okay , yeah , two is fine . marketing : but then you ring 'em and you find them . so industrial designer : mm . mm . user interface : yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the wrap up of the meeting . </s> marketing : all done , thanks . we fitted all the criterias . project manager : marketing : yeah . project manager : . marketing : yeah , so project manager : well done , reissa . marketing : so that 's that one . project manager : okay , i i think um i just wan na put in as project manager the you know , little bit of praise for everybody here for how they 've worked on it , user interface : project manager : you know , both individually and as a team . you know you 've w everyone 's come up with their own individual ideas in their own different departments , um and then come together and worked in , you know , integrally , you know , at the right times , psp , you know , especially you two . marketing : project manager : that 's all , you know , gone very very well user interface : yeah . project manager : and and and be you know , has been good communication going on . user interface : yeah , during our design i mean there was some s some heated heated discussion , industrial designer : user interface : but we we kept we tried to keep it cool and and project manager : did you have to go down to the the corporate squash court and bash a few balls about ? marketing : user interface : just just industrial designer : well . user interface : we just had to we just had to squeeze our product a little bit and marketing : industrial designer : you know project manager : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : fantastic . industrial designer : it is . user interface : now you guys have been a a great team . think we 're the we 're the envy of all the of all the other r_r_ teams , . marketing : been cool . project manager : i think so marketing : project manager : i i , you know , and i think we 've co we have come we 've come up with something new , something that has n't been done before , we have n't we 're not just rehashing an old design . marketing : in four diff in in four meetings . project manager : yeah . marketing : funny , all designer meetings could be this quick . project manager : you know , maybe this is n't a simulation , maybe this is actually so it 's like sony or someone like that they 're they 're just , yeah , they get marketing : user interface : yeah i think they 're actually trying to find ideas for a ideal remote . marketing : they 're using our ideas . user interface : project manager : yeah . yeah , two years ' time this will be on the market . user interface : project manager : ex exactly that product marketing : user interface : project manager : um thum we 'll go , yeah , we designed that and no-one will believe us . user interface : marketing : project manager : but um user interface : so at this stage , i mean , is this the last meeting of the project ? we do n't uh have another one after it 's gone gone to marke market or something ? marketing : yeah . project manager : i think when this meeting 's finished like officially , there b we 'll get a uh questionnaire to fill in . marketing : industrial designer : y oh really ? user interface : project manager : or six , uh marketing : just start summarising now . you can reply to the same message . project manager : i have n't got message . marketing : see summary , there . if you just reply to that one . user interface : so there 's no way to like predict what our 'cause we had a we originally had a as far as our financial uh um goals , we had a specific number for profits that we wanted . it was fifty mil fifty million marketing : was it was it fifty or five ? user interface : i do n't remember . but there 's not a way to compute that , i mean , since we saved on the on the production cost , do we know how much we 're making on profit ? project manager : it gets handed over to another department . marketing : depends how much we sell . project manager : what our what our project was was to come up with the product , basically . the for the and just basically is it it come can is it within budget . when it c when it comes to all the other things of how to sell it and , you know , the b the profits and all that that 's other departments it 's another team that actually work out the mai the user interface : but we have a vested interest project manager : oh yeah , the all the guys in the profit sharing , yeah . user interface : prof profit sharing . project manager : um . yeah , that 's it . you know , we 've we 've we 've made i we 've made marketing : we finished an hour earlier . project manager : we 've designed the product , we 've ma we 've got the prototype , it 's within budget , it 's does everything that we wanted it to do . it 's new , it 's it 's um something that uh that is n't out there already . user interface : i think actually and one advantage of of this is that after the uh , you know , after this fad of fruit and vegetables passes this will still be c a cool remote , you know . we 're not we 're not you know , tying tying our cart to that one horse . project manager : yeah . well , this is very marketable in that it is it 's it 's something that 's kind of new and looks a bit quirky for people who want that , marketing : definitely . project manager : it 's that it 's um , hang on , i wrote it down here somewhere industrial designer : user interface : project manager : oh no i thi i put it in one of my e-mails that i sent off . um that , you know , it 's marketable in the sense that it 's whilst all these other remotes uh actually do give you repetitive strain injury , our one does the complete opposite , you know , user interface : mm . mm . project manager : so that 's something that 's new , which is one of the criteria they asked us to come up with something with something new . user interface : mm . it make watching tv healthy . project manager : yeah , and if you 're not having a good time with the tv , you can f throw it about , you know . marketing : yeah . user interface : </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : wait for the marketing director actually , so . anyways . uh . see , shall we wait ? i 'm not sure if he 's late or delayed or whatever , so i 'm gon na start soon , we have now do n't have much time anyway . user interface : oh , there he is . industrial designer : okay , project manager : there you are , industrial designer : we marketing : sorry , project manager : okay . marketing : a little bit of pl little problem with computer . project manager : uh no problem . we 're about to start , so have a seat . okay , welcome again . marketing : . project manager : today , functional design phase . i 'll take you over the minutes of last last meeting . okay , that was just to get to know each other , have a little thoughts on what your vision is and on this project , so i put the minutes on the i made on the on the p the the project share , so if you wan na review them , they 're there . i will do so after every meeting , so if you have some information you wan na take back you can find it there . anyways , um today three presentations , from every one of you . um after that i got some new project requirements from project board , so we 're gon na go af go after over this later . but i wan na start with uh stuff you did first , so we can see what everybody came up with . and after that we can have the new requirements and share some thoughts , so . who would like wan na go first ? marketing : yeah , sure , no problem . project manager : take it . user interface : go ahead . marketing : um there was a little problem with my computer so not uh the whole uh presentation uh project manager : anyway , let 's see what you have . marketing : yeah . um okay , project manager : uh it 's still a bit open . marketing : i want to open the my s oh no . project manager : you should close it on your own notebook , i guess . yeah . so there ? marketing : oh no , project manager : okay . marketing : that 's okay . uh slide show . yes . the functional requirements , it 's uh uh very important for uh the user , he he wants to yeah . the the method we used uh it it 's not m not a slide , because it went wrong , but the method we use uh , um we tested it w uh with uh a hundred uh men , and we asked them to w uh what the remote uh f feel uh like and uh what what 's uh important . uh project manager : if i can cut in , is it people or men ? marketing : people , project manager : is it people , okay . marketing : sorry . project manager : 'cause i thought it was only men , marketing : both women and men , project manager : so marketing : yeah . project manager : 'kay . marketing : okay . uh the findings um uh seventy five percent of the users find most remote controls ugly . um user interface : that 's pretty shocking uh . project manager : so we have to s we have to do something about that . marketing : yeah , and yeah , most th th they want to spend money for a better system , for better remote control , so we can do uh a l a little uh nice things with it , and um they use yeah , they use zap a lot , um uh fifty percent say they only so that 's the most important things . project manager : okay . marketing : um oh yeah , not all of it is it on mine on my powerpoint presentation , project manager : okay , just talk ahead . marketing : but um uh the relevant buttons are the power , the channel selection and the volume selection . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's uh the most basic buttons that a user wants uh to use . uh less important is tel teletext , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh um they use it , but it 's not uh very uh important uh on the scale of zero to ten they six and a half uh project manager : okay , that 's okay . user interface : marketing : and but not important is the channel selection , the the hmm ? project manager : that 's a little weird . marketing : oh , user interface : which channel selection ? marketing : the the no no no no no , that 's very important , but uh w and not important in the audio settings , display settings project manager : okay , marketing : and uh project manager : we can we can hide those under a menu or something , user interface : oh , okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : um new preferences preferences . uh um um beep to find your control , was project manager : that 's like a button on your tv ? marketing : that was in the test , the the most people uh f find it uh irritating uh when they can not find a rem their remote control , project manager : remote , okay . marketing : so uh i think it 's a bee beep to sound it and uh you can find it . and another thing uh they want was uh speech recognition um so they can say uh what they want to let 's go to channel one and uh that 's uh kind of things . project manager : okay . marketing : and they want maybe an uh lcd screen um to to look it um wh what 's on every channel uh and uh what do i want with it ? user interface : project manager : we wan na have a little preview on the remote control . preview what 's on the channel . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : is that manageable ? 'cause it sounds pretty expensive too . project manager : that sounds too marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's possible , but uh i think it 's expensive , but do continue . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . um uh my personal preferences is uh a button for my favourite channel , so i can uh i dunno , so i can zap to my uh f uh quick uh to my favourite channel wh what i uh so , the remote mu must see or um must um see wha what mine preferences are for which channel , project manager : okay , you do n't set it yourself , marketing : so i can zap t to project manager : it just remembers the channel that you are on most , for example . marketing : what ? project manager : you want the you want it to be programmed , for example y programmed f marketing : yeah . project manager : or you want it to recognise your favourite channel ? marketing : yeah . project manager : let 's see , you you spend twenty minutes each day on that channel , marketing : recognise project manager : so it recognises your favourite channel . marketing : yeah . yeah , that 's uh what my personal preference like . project manager : okay , so it 's it it does it recognise itself , you do n't have to set it okay . marketing : itself . maybe it 's easier to to sell it , but project manager : okay . marketing : i do n't know it 's manageable , but we will uh we will see . project manager : i see . marketing : yeah , it 's a little bit uh it 's the end of it . project manager : okay . marketing : it 's a little bit uh i lost it , user interface : okay . marketing : the computer uh crashed , project manager : no problem , it 's it 's okay , that 's yeah , go ahead . user interface : shall i go ? okay . marketing : yeah . user interface : so , some technical functions . marketing : darn computer . user interface : basically i have some issues which you discussed earlier . uh let 's just start with the method . marketing : yeah . user interface : it sounds really easy , what does the user do , what does the th remote control do , but there are quite some issues . so the things i 'm going to concentrate on are the user aspect , because the technical aspect , that 's pretty much covered . we can do that . what goes wrong at the user . gets the remote control . where is the remote control ? we 've all had it once , i want to watch some television , marketing : yeah . user interface : where 's the remote control ? that was one of your ideas which you posted in the network folder , marketing : yeah . project manager : that seems very good . user interface : a really good idea . uh these are just the issues . i come to some uh personal experience , findings , possible solutions later . searches for the button . there are many buttons on a remote control which are not clear . uh so either we lose those or we try to make it a little bit more clear . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : uh also symbols tend to fade after a while . marketing : mm uh . user interface : there 's nothing more annoying than faded symbols , because you do n't know which channel is this button , so possibly we could find uh something for that , project manager : okay , so have it more make it more durable actually . okay . user interface : yes . uh covered that . oh yes , user presses the button . um usually when you have a lot of buttons , buttons are small . so you press more once remote control goes kablouey or something like that , project manager : okay , so the buttons should be user interface : so we have to pay attention not to put too mun too many buttons on uh the remote control . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . user interface : and possibly also the size , so more important buttons , bigger project manager : wow . the s yeah . make it make them bigger . even more durable uh . user interface : so this is basically what i h had in mind in the fade-proof symbols , locator , a sound , uh so clear we should stick to existing symbols , but maybe we could do a little uh investigation to see whether some symbols are uh need to be replaced by others . uh project manager : okay . user interface : this i pretty much covered . so what we want to go to is not this one , project manager : yeah , it 's true . user interface : but more less buttons , easy , some bigger buttons . marketing : yeah . user interface : that 's basically uh what i had in mind . so project manager : yeah , that 's clear . user interface : this is not the final design , project manager : no , of course uh user interface : this is just a general idea of how i 'd like to see uh basically the general idea . project manager : yeah . i must say that it hmm . user interface : so that was it . project manager : that was it . okay , that was good . so we agree on the the part that we need to get something on the on the remote to find it somewhere and increase it the durability of of the thing , user interface : yeah , i think it 's a really good idea . project manager : so user interface : yeah . project manager : the other aspects , we 'll just see how what you came up with and what 's possible for that budget . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay , that 's fine . um . okay , now work a little with me . okay . well , project manager : industrial designer : let 's start it as it is . okay , uh the method . there are a few questions that need to be answered , uh you already uh talked about it a little bit . which buttons are wanted , uh is our remote control universal or should it be programmable . uh if it should be programmeab grammeale then we need um something like a mode that you can switch it . because then the buttons have to send out a different signal then they would normally do . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh how big is the remote control uh going to be ? i 'll tell you why that 's important to me . um there are a lot of technical parts in the remote control , so uh uh that 's why i also would like to say uh go a little bit easy on the designs , uh i heard ab uh you talking about beeps and about uh video screens , but uh the material inside and the technical aspects are quite complex already . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so keep in mind that everything that you keep uh think of , it has to b to be built . project manager : yeah . of course , hmm . industrial designer : so it 's that 's not as easy as it s might look like . user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh material study , i 'm working on that um for the the costs . i have to check out how far i can go with that . normally , a circuit board is made of fibreglass uh and the wires are made of copper . uh that is how it is done and all the remote controls work that way , i think we can just go on with that . um then i 've read more integration of materials means less cost for the production . the more we can make uh at once uh in one piece , uh that is cheaper . project manager : you mean integrate them all into the circuit board . okay . industrial designer : exactly , so if we make a circuit board with the the connections already on it , then that 's cheaper . project manager : yeah , okay . industrial designer : so we have to make something that 's not too difficult in design again . project manager : so you have industrial designer : this is what look like uh looks like if you press one button , so this is not the entire thing . you have the the power coming in , then you have like a switch . the switch uh uh uh if you p press it then some electrical charge goes into the processor , that thinks over a morse code , that 's how you should see it . the morse code goes to the amplifier , then uh the signal is sent to two uh light bulbs . you have infrared and an interv um uh how to say it ? uh a light in indication , light that you know that it 's functioning . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh here again , that 's my story about the different modes , if you do want to make remote uh universal , then the processor has to uh make up a different morse code when some button is pressed . that makes it much more complex , so we really need to have a look , do we want that or not . uh i do n't have any personal p uh preferences uh so far , except for uh the materials to be used uh light , that they are light . project manager : okay . okay . that was it ? industrial designer : that was it . project manager : i 'll get back to my thing then . uh okay , back this up to the screen . so i got some new information on the project specifications are changing a little . like you said uh teletext is not not very popular anymore because the uh the internet , nowadays people do n't use the teletext anymore or hardly , so it can either well , i do n't think we should remove the button , because there are always people who are using it . user interface : yeah . project manager : but i do n't think it should be very it should be one of the big buttons for example . just put it somewhere or under second option or whatever . it 's not important anymore . um we 're targeting young people now , because our um this is a new product and with this new product we want to appeal to younger people , which are um the younger people were defined under forty . marketing : yeah . project manager : i so i think it 's that 's also good with the fashion and everything , so yeah . marketing : yeah , and they want to pay for it project manager : they want to pay for it , people are willing to spend money actually to buy a um remote that they like . marketing : and uh project manager : if they like the way it looks , the way it functions , so they 're actually gon na spend uh spend money on it . marketing : with more where with more technical specifications project manager : yeah . marketing : in the project manager : see how far we can go with it anyway , so marketing : yeah . project manager : and one thing that should be important is that the corporate l colour and slogan are recognisable , which is apparently black and yellow , but i 'm not sure if we i think we should keep the the logo in mind , because with colours you can uh have a lot of uh fashionable colours and everything on it , which suits everybody 's taste . so with that concept i started thinking , so why not just steal nokia 's idea and just make changeable covers for your i mean those cost hardly anything i think , and people could even spend extra money on buying a cover industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and so have an entire new remote control that they like to see . or we can sh for example we can make a different a basic design . and sell the covers separately , for example . that 's just a little marketing idea that could be applied , so you can p it appeals to really everyone . so you do n't have to i think you do n't have to make entire remote controls . we make a basic one and manufacture this cover separately . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so that was that was my idea on what we could do to appeal this product to everyone . so just i 'm not sure if you came up with anything in the meantime , after making a presentation . would you like to share ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : no , i think this is a good idea . project manager : okay . industrial designer : but marketing : but oh ? user interface : is it manageable ? is it easy ? industrial designer : go ahead . marketing : yeah , with with an lcd screen you can project manager : oh yeah . i think we should lose the lcd screen , industrial designer : y yes , i think so too . project manager : like you said . i think for example it 's it 's huge i think the lcd is huge , user interface : yeah . marketing : why ? nokia w project manager : it consumes batteries like hell . i think it takes up a lot of a lot of power . user interface : and it costs too much to fabricate , project manager : it costs a lot , i think . user interface : so we 're on a tight budget here . industrial designer : okay , uh project manager : what we could do , what could be possible , is maybe not an lcd screen but with a preview , marketing : okay . project manager : but y i 'm not sure if it 's even possible . for example , a little tv guide . like you have a little just just a text only , not colour , just a little text thing industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : so you can use your remote as a tv guide . i 'm not sure it 's even possible , industrial designer : hmm . i have to check that out , project manager : but maybe okay , make it industrial designer : i 'm not sure . project manager : yeah , find a little compromise in that , but what did i write down ? marketing : yeah . project manager : i think the p yeah , the beep is a very simple thing to imple implement , just make a button on your tv industrial designer : that must be possible . project manager : and just hit the button , it beeps somewhere . i think it 's easy to implement , we should go for that . industrial designer : i 'm sorry , project manager : uh speech recognition . user interface : and it 's industrial designer : whe where do you wan na hit the t_ you wan na we want a button on the television . project manager : i thin yeah , i mean where else should you put it ? industrial designer : in th okay , but that rules out a universal remote control . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : because that 's not possible uh . project manager : but how are you gon na use that if your i mean if your remote control is lost , how are you gon na press where are you gon na press the button ? industrial designer : uh . yeah . exactly . user interface : maybe just a slap-on sticker with a button which sends out a small signal . project manager : a slap-on sticker . oh , you mean as like a separate thing you can attach to your tv . marketing : mm uh . project manager : yeah , that could be possible . user interface : yeah , exactly . project manager : a little little box you can attach to your tv is fine then , okay . industrial designer : okay , then uh i 'd i 'd like to know now if we want the uh universal remote control or not , because that 's uh determines everything i 'm gon na do . project manager : i think it 's universal . i think we should go for universal , industrial designer : if not project manager : because apparently we 're a separate company making separate c remote controls to sell to a lot of diverse people . industrial designer : okay . project manager : i think universal remote control should be possible . marketing : yeah . um industrial designer : okay , then i go for that . marketing : everyone uh wants to buy it , so we w project manager : yeah , i think we 're targeting everyone , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so remote industrial designer : okay . no , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it 's fine with me , but then i know what to look for . project manager : okay , universal is good . speech recognition , i think it 's very hard , because we 're selling across multiple countries . so i think implementing speech recognition is such a small um apparatus , it 's very hard to do . marketing : yeah . or one . user interface : and it 's marketing : or when you say one two uh i it uh it 's enough , project manager : yeah , but i do n't see arabian people speaking one , two uh whatever . marketing : right ? but oh yeah . user interface : besides that , the technology is n't really super yet , so that is a problem in implementing this . project manager : it 's yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's not a mature technology , i think it takes a lot of memory and everything in in a remote control , marketing : okay . project manager : so user interface : it 's a good idea , but it 's just not i do n't think the market 's ripe for that yet . project manager : i do n't think it should be implemented in a remote control yet uh . industrial designer : uh-huh . project manager : what else do we have ? marketing : yeah . project manager : um well you should you should look into the in into the materials that are real durable . so the the the symbols wo n't fade , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe a little harder plastic industrial designer : exactly . project manager : or especially li we do n't industrial designer : i already noted that . project manager : maybe we do n't have have to do all the buttons , but especially the ones that are um the popular buttons , so those always fade first . industrial designer : mm , okay . okay . project manager : mm the thing is the most important things that we have now . let 's see . industrial designer : if we uh make a remote control with changeable covers , then we can also make uh a cover for every language area . project manager : for example ? industrial designer : that 's fo is uh especially for older people , that they can read it read it in their own language . project manager : well , we 're not we 're not targeting older people , marketing : yeah . project manager : we should remember that . everything we target is under forty , industrial designer : that 's okay , okay . project manager : you assume that that they read correctly and i think they 're the most important thing about young people is that they 're really sensitive to to trends that are passing through the world , so industrial designer : uh okay . user interface : but should the exchangeable covers include the buttons themselves or just the project manager : no , of course . no , i think it 's just something you you put over them , because yeah we c yeah , you ca well , tha that 's not a that 's not a bad that 's not even marketing : but every user interface : that 's a problem with the with the text then . project manager : it 's not even a bad idea . i mean , for example , if you 're if you 're into the durability issue you could user interface : project manager : for example , if your buttons are faded , after i mean if you make a durable remote , they are faded , you can just buy a new cover . uh i 'm not sure it 's it 's hard to make . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so it 's a good and a bad idea . industrial designer : uh but i know that the buttons are like a nokia telephone on uh one sleeve , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so you do n't have to change your whole cover . uh we can make something that you can only remove the sleeve . user interface : oh yeah , i know what you mean . industrial designer : know what i mean ? it works the same as a nokia telephone , it 's it 's in my uh 'kay . project manager : yeah , i know , it 's just just a one one piece of rubber for example , marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . yeah , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : exactly . project manager : that 's what i something i have to look into . either either change both the buttons and and the cover or just the cover , i 'm not sure which which is easier , industrial designer : hmm . project manager : so um anyway , yeah , this is what we 're gon na do afterwards , just lunch break and have more individual work after that , so let 's see what we let 's see we so you have to come up with a components concept , yeah . i want some you should do some trend-watching , because even if we 're if we 're gon na do those covers and everything , what people really want , that 's what we need to know in this phase , marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : because that 's gon na be the essential final design that we 're gon na come up with . marketing : okay . project manager : um yeah , i think user interface is fairly obvious . i mean it should be very intuitive , user interface : pretty straightforward . project manager : s yeah , it should speak for itself . uh for example i bought a remote control last week with a new tv , it was it l it 's like all buttons and you have no idea what it does at first , industrial designer : project manager : and i 'm total tv new , anyway . so i think it should be have less or l very little buttons and maybe a second second level menu for the advanced things . or maybe just stick 'em under a menu , like you said the um the sound options and the surround and whatever , they 're more complicated , just stick 'em under one menu and uh give it a just put it in in s in a software piece , you can menu and you can uh select everything you want to to set on your tv . user interface : is it techni technically possible to uh send a signal to a television and then pops up a menu , project manager : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because we 're working with different types of television , so we 're going to work with that ? project manager : that is true . industrial designer : i do n't think so . project manager : no , that 's true . industrial designer : no , i do n't think so . because the television needs to respond to the signal , project manager : yeah , that 's true . user interface : it 's an in-built menu , industrial designer : and if it does n't know how , it 's user interface : is n't it ? yes . industrial designer : exactly , that 's not possible . user interface : so basically project manager : i 'm not sure if it 's impossible , user interface : we project manager : but uh there 's a chance it 's not , so . user interface : or we could use a double-sided for less used functions project manager : a double-sided remote control ? user interface : you project manager : i do n't think that 's useful . user interface : yeah , with the cover . i it 's basically an idea to overcome these issues , project manager : yeah , but then you 're gon na have a lot of wasted buttons . user interface : because project manager : for example you have a sony tv and the half of the buttons wo n't function if you have a for a sony that wo n't for a philips tv . user interface : no , but basic functions marketing : yeah . user interface : but functions which are not frequently used . project manager : i do n't think we should user interface : because if we use a universal remote control , we 're going to have to have most buttons on it , project manager : yeah , for exam user interface : so project manager : i 'm not s marketing : mm yeah . project manager : yeah , for ex you have to make it a little decision between the part if you want a universal remote control that it should do what people usually do with their tvs , not not the very complicated settings that you can usually do that with uh either a old old remote control if they really hate that thing , but you ca n't you can not take into consideration all the different brands of tvs . industrial designer : but that might be broken . project manager : i think there 's i think there is a standard for example between uh industrial designer : hmm . project manager : because usually the the menu is the menu button is is usable between different brands . especially the big ones , the big brands , industrial designer : hmm . hmm . project manager : so . 'cause everybody i have a universal remote control and it can use the menu button , so i think i 'm not sure , if you can put some research into that , if it 's possible . uh i think just a b industrial designer : mm okay . project manager : and the navigation is very basic , it 's usually the same thing . industrial designer : mm . but i think there must be a way uh to invoke the more complicated functions of a television . for instance , if your old remote control is broken and you buy ours , then uh you should be able to get everything out of the television that 's in it . project manager : yeah . yeah , that 's true . i think so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : because otherwise you 'll lose functions by buying our marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : uh we need to put some research into that if if we can open the menu , i think it 's possible , just the way how to . industrial designer : okay , i thi i think so too . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah , then then you could do everything i suppose , because usually the tvs have tha that inside in this other little piece of software , so it 's okay . industrial designer : and i think that our r remote control should not look like uh any other . for instance uh sony makes all their remote controls exactly the same for all their devices , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and you always grab the wrong one because formatting of the buttons is exactly the same , only the labels are different . project manager : yeah . yeah i think it should be a little distinct from everything else , industrial designer : we should not do that . project manager : because it 's either it 's both mayb industrial designer : exactly . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , project manager : maybe the shape can be a little different . user interface : i have some ideas . i have some ideas . project manager : maybe it 's a little more curves or whatever . industrial designer : mm that 's your uh division . marketing : um yeah . and uh with different colours uh . project manager : so um user interface : i 'll put some on paper and present them next time uh the ideas that i have . project manager : yeah , this . not sure what marketing : okay . project manager : because we have forty minutes , i 'm not sure how much time we have left for the meeting anyway , so . user interface : i heard a beep go . project manager : yeah , but it was n't me , it was him closing something . marketing : yeah . project manager : so anyway , yeah , we could do some i do some work now on on the design for example . i mean what do you want , do you want , but user interface : yeah , but we like some some curves or project manager : yeah , may maybe something like this . but though smooth inside . so you have the transmitter here for example . user interface : yeah . project manager : let 's see that you what would be handy . i think that the the buttons should be the channel buttons should be uh on their own . marketing : uh . and a light uh project manager : let 's see one , two god damn it . user interface : oh , we get the general ideas , yes . project manager : yeah , okay . another one here . let 's see what i think this should these are always on top of the of the control , so they should be here . user interface : yeah , and since you 're holding it like this , i suggest you put the channel up channel down and volume project manager : think it 's like this . marketing : volume . project manager : withi within the yeah , just take it . user interface : yeah yeah . so you have the up channel the down channel the volume , do we want that horizontal or vertical ? project manager : do you take triangles or marketing : uh it 's it 's fine , i think . project manager : um i think it should be i think it user interface : this is basically what people are accustomed to , project manager : maybe we should make 'em bigger or whatever . user interface : so industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , but this is just a g general idea . marketing : oh d project manager : yeah . user interface : uh maybe the menu button can go i in the middle . project manager : yeah , in the middle . it 's it 's usually uh there , but mm . user interface : whoa . industrial designer : perhaps we should also make uh something like a flash on it , if you if it 's lost , for people that are deaf . they they wo n't hear the the beep . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , but for example if it 's lost in your armchair , we 'll not see the flash . user interface : you wo n't be able to find it . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and flash takes up a lot of batteries again . industrial designer : uh . yeah , it 's true , but it 's it 's only has to do so when you press the button that it 's lost . marketing : just project manager : yeah . user interface : we could make a combination that it goes beep and that you that some light lights up . industrial designer : so . deaf people ? marketing : and l_e_d_ uh on it . project manager : yeah , i thought about for deaf people for example , so . we could do that . uh let 's see . marketing : just a light on it or user interface : so we have the basic channels we 've got here , uh the power button somewhere over here ? project manager : oh yeah , it 's true . um that thing should be central . marketing : very important . project manager : you should n't be you uh should n't press it by accident , but it should n't be stacked away somewhere . user interface : i usually press it on top . marketing : that 's it 's project manager : yeah . user interface : at least that 's what i 'm accustomed to . industrial designer : i have another idea , project manager : yeah , like that 's gon na work . industrial designer : i 'm not sure if it 's possible . marketing : and user interface : what would you like to ? project manager : yeah , i thought maybe we should move the buttons down marketing : but you r project manager : and put it here for example marketing : and you are reading from the t project manager : to marketing : you always read from the top to the the bottom of it . project manager : from top to bottom . yeah , that 's true , marketing : yeah , project manager : you should marketing : so it 's project manager : i think the bu the power button should be on top , marketing : yeah . project manager : 'cause it 's the first thing you do , turn it on . so power button on top . um user interface : okay , mute button . is that somewhere here ? project manager : mute . do we hardly i think it should be at the bottom somewhere . user interface : is that used often ? marketing : so i it 's user interface : the mute button ? do people use that often ? marketing : sorry ? project manager : mute . turn the sound off . marketing : no , it 's no . user interface : 'cause uh i 'm pretty much accustomed to it right over here , at least in general , marketing : uh . hmm . user interface : but project manager : i do n't think it 's important , but i think it i think it should be you c user interface : it 's not that important , no . project manager : you could put it somewhere here . marketing : or or with the volume selection . project manager : no , because it yeah , people are accustomed to that , marketing : around uh not uh not at top at the around the volume selection . project manager : it 's can i have that ? that 's j user interface : sure . marketing : i do n't know where exactly , project manager : take this out and here see marketing : but project manager : uh are we gon na take triangles anyway ? i 'm drawing triangles , but marketing : user interface : that 's pretty much what people are accustomed to , project manager : yeah , user interface : are n't they ? project manager : it 's maybe a bigger lesser than thing . so anyway , i think this is should be the channels and or sh user interface : well , i 'm accustomed to the channels being on top . marketing : no . yeah . project manager : here , industrial designer : yeah , me too . project manager : okay . okay , marketing : yeah , that 's better . project manager : should we chan marketing : on the right . project manager : okay , this two , channel up and down . industrial designer : shall we uh also look if it 's possible to make a rechargeable remote ? that you do n't have to buy new batteries if every project manager : well , marketing : yeah . project manager : for that is it 's on one part it 's um it 's a good thing to recharge it marketing : maybe it 's more ex expensive . industrial designer : mm , yeah . project manager : maybe we should what what could be possible is one with rechargeable batteries for example . you have just put penlite batteries that are rechargeable , because it 's an it 's it 's it 's very annoying . user interface : but is n't that expensive in the entire package ? industrial designer : but that 's already possible . marketing : yeah . project manager : i 'm not sure y i 'm not sure it 's if it 's expensive , but just take a look at it , because it might be a very good idea . because if it 's it 's uh useful to have it rechargeable , but at the same time , if you do n't want recha if you forgot to recharge it and you wan na watch tv now , you wan na be able to put different batteries in it , use it now and not in half an hour . industrial designer : yes . yes . okay . uh you could make a device , but i 'm not sure how that uh is possible with the costs , that you can put in normal batteries , rechargeable , project manager : i think i have a nice idea . industrial designer : but it you 're the remote also can act as a recharger . so then you can choose , you have every decision . know what i mean ? project manager : not exactly uh . industrial designer : you can uh put in normal penlites , rechargeable penlites , but they can also be recharged with the remote , with a wire . marketing : hmm . yeah yeah . project manager : i think it 's uh it 's a pretty good idea to have uh like sort of a maybe a base station that you put on the tv . could be flat , you could insert your uh remote into it . industrial designer : so but marketing : yeah , that 's g industrial designer : but i think that will cost a lot . project manager : i 'm not sure . industrial designer : uh a normal wire would be better . project manager : a what ? industrial designer : like a like a p_d_a_ , a hand-held . you can uh just put it in the electricity and it charges itself , project manager : well , we were talking about the fact that we wanted to insert either a beep or a flash into the thing with a little separate signal industrial designer : you do n't need basic station . yes . project manager : or so you could put that on a tv for example . industrial designer : that is possible , that 's true . project manager : it could be very flat , could be very small . marketing : but which project manager : it 's a very small yeah , i 'm drawing it big now , but so you can put your remote on flat for example . and at the backside of remote just just just a little hole marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : for example um you just put it down , it recharges for example . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i do n't think it 's very expensive . user interface : but again , is n't that too expensive ? marketing : yeah . user interface : 'cause that means that we have to implement rechargeable batteries , a docking station industrial designer : project manager : i 'm not sure if it costs a lot , that that 's what he r that 's that you that 's what you buy yourself . industrial designer : yes . i 'm going to try to find that out . i 'm not sure if there 's information available on this , project manager : it 's just an idea , we have to find out if it 's possible . industrial designer : but marketing : but user interface : and do people actually want that ? to pay extra they want to pay for rechargeable ? marketing : yeah , they want to pay for it . project manager : do they want but they want a rechargeable one ? marketing : yeah . project manager : i 'm not sure , you should find out if it 's if rechargeable is important . marketing : th uh there was not a el ask esque project manager : yeah . industrial designer : hmm . these are uh comfort issues . so i think people will pay they wanted to pay for comfort . marketing : but project manager : they want to pay for comfort , industrial designer : well , this is comfort . project manager : we just assu we we could either make a separate station which just sends a signal to the remote control to either beep or flash to find it , marketing : but f hmm . project manager : um and yeah , we have to either that or make it integrated with a with a docking station . industrial designer : hmm . yeah . exactly . i think this is a brilliant product . project manager : i think it would be good actually . industrial designer : i would buy it myself . project manager : i like the beep part anyway . marketing : project manager : let 's go through the industrial designer : i like the covers . that 's a brilliant idea . marketing : user interface : can can we save this or project manager : covers is covers is good . industrial designer : i never thought project manager : yeah , it 's oh we can save this . up and saved . we even saved the ant . um okay . so user interface : marketing : project manager : what we have is you have i think you have to do a lot of work on if it 's possible for the cost . industrial designer : i hope if i have information about that , project manager : maybe yeah , industrial designer : i 'm gon na project manager : or maybe you can find out i what people are willing to pay . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : we are going for twenty five euros sales price , marketing : yeah , okay . project manager : but just try to find out what they 're willing to pay for it , because if they 're willing to pay more , we could lose a little profit and maybe attract more customers , marketing : yeah yeah yeah . industrial designer : mm . yeah . project manager : uh we just have to see what it looks like . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i would like to make a decision . what it costs and what kind of materials that we can uh choose what we want in it project manager : yeah , if you have some financial information that that 'd be nice , industrial designer : and exactly , i need it . project manager : so . hmm . user interface : could you post some other essentials of what people want , so that i can work with some buttons , where to put it project manager : marketing : yeah . user interface : you seem to have information on that , i 'd like to uh see some of it . industrial designer : was it not possible to uh send emails around the office ? project manager : no , it was n't was n't allo user interface : no , it 's not . no . project manager : it was possible , industrial designer : not . project manager : not allowed , so . so that 's um why i 'm not sure that you 're allowed to share documents on the on the draft . marketing : yeah . my computer crashed , industrial designer : yeah , okay . project manager : i do n't care . i have n't heard any complaints yet , user interface : oh , your computer . okay . marketing : i lost my uh presentation , project manager : so . um marketing : but i have the uh user interface : well , i have your powerpoint presentation , i can get some inf information out of that . marketing : yeah , but i here i have the the s the homepage of uh our internet , user interface : let 's see . project manager : yeah , the oh , they inc uh marketing : and here is my project manager : they include the new one . or just for you . user interface : oh , where would we marketing : here is my marketing report , project manager : oh marketing : maybe you ca you can look at uh that project manager : no , i did n't have that . marketing : and user interface : where would we want the uh teletext button ? marketing : ah yeah . user interface : because we decided that it 's n not that important . project manager : all it tells just let 's make make a new marketing : and one user interface : do we put it somewhere over here ? project manager : tick the new one . um other side . yeah , let 's increase it a little because marketing : and uh wha what people want , i 've uh user interface : or maybe this is something for the next meeting , i can draw out some ideas . project manager : yeah , draw us up some some designs of of possible marketing : i have another thing uh project manager : just keep in mind that the important buttons should be on top and either big , user interface : yeah . project manager : so the more less important user interface : well , we have decided more or less the basic structure . project manager : more or less . user interface : i can put the other buttons in project manager : just play a little with this , put l shift a little up or down and we 'll see what looks best . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : what uh what did you wan na say ? project manager : or just po post your designs from time to time on the product share . marketing : yeah . um user interface : yeah . marketing : uh what i al already said is the the uh the remote controls are always lost , user interface : maybe another idea uh . marketing : but it it 's also for people , they want to learn it fast , industrial designer : mm . mm . marketing : not uh they want to project manager : yeah , so we do n't want we want very little buttons , just the buttons you use a lot . marketing : it 's yeah , it 's easy to learn user interface : yes , but it should cover all the functions , marketing : wi and uh user interface : so possibly , just an idea that popped in project manager : what we had function that what people do , marketing : um project manager : so . people change channels , people they change the volume and they they change channel , they turn tv off and on , for example . that 's the basic fu that 's what you do i 'm not sure who present that again , but those are the basic function that people use it for , so those should be very well represented . user interface : yeah , but we could go a step further , marketing : and the if user interface : because some tvs have the uh possibility to adjust brightness , that kind of menus . project manager : that 's true , but that 's what we stick under the menu button . everything is you say in every tv that 's configured under the menu . user interface : yes , but it because we 're making industrial designer : but that 's the question , is it ? marketing : um industrial designer : because it needs to be configured in the television under the menu . project manager : yeah , but industrial designer : if it is n't , then we can not reach it . user interface : we need to adjust to the technology . project manager : but i think most modern tvs have it in their menu . industrial designer : i think so too . i think so too . user interface : true . industrial designer : uh is n't there a possibility to do research on that , so we know that for sure ? if you rule out functions , then uh and that gets known , then people are not gon na buy it . user interface : no , i thi industrial designer : then the consumer bond or something says uh you can not do this and that with it . that 's a bad bad com commercial marketing : if um project manager : uh we 'll we 'll see what we can come up with . industrial designer : for okay . marketing : another thing i want to say is that uh we are looking at the market for the age uh younger than forty . project manager : under forty . yeah ? industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : um on my report , i did n't uh ish i did n't show it in my uh presentation , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : because my computer crashed . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : um they want to pay for an lcd screen and speech recognition . industrial designer : hmm . hmm . project manager : the want to pay for industrial designer : did they really said it like that ? those two things . marketing : i yeah . yeah , project manager : uh shall we ? industrial designer : do they realise how much that costs ? marketing : and industrial designer : that 's almost undoable . marketing : yeah . project manager : younger , age sixteen and forty five . user interface : oh , we 're not going to be able to sell it for twenty-five then , with an lcd screen . marketing : uh but project manager : that 's all here , here it says industrial designer : no , that 's that 's . even if i if we have this lost unit , then we can not do it for that price . project manager : yeah , age sixteen forty fi interest in main features more critical . marketing : if if they project manager : okay , so we 're not focusing on this . um all the interest in features , not really the l_c_ oh here . would you pay for uh speech recognition in a remote control . hmm , okay ? industrial designer : yeah , that 's true . user interface : marketing : we can project manager : speech recognition is quite marketing : we can look at the possibilities for an uh lcd and uh project manager : yeah , just look at the possibilities then , marketing : i dunno . project manager : because if marketing : yeah . project manager : apparently it 's what people want , it 's supposed to be a luxurious remote , marketing : how much it will cost and project manager : maybe it 's not even that expensive . or find a compromise , maybe just a black and white or for some extra information on it , on your programmes . industrial designer : uh i marketing : um user interface : i doubt it , but industrial designer : but i really need finance information . project manager : me too . i mean we all do . marketing : it will come uh industrial designer : we all do . project manager : right . i think it 's something we should put into consideration . apparently it 's what people want , so . we should see if what it costs , if it 's possible . industrial designer : mm . uh . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah , we should do a little thing about design , because it looks boring really to me . even if you put it even if you put a different cover on it , it looks still looks boring , marketing : different colours maybe . industrial designer : hmm . and the design , it should differ . marketing : but all industrial designer : this is philips , huh ? project manager : i have no clue . industrial designer : philips has this . project manager : i just drew something what which would fit into your hand easily . user interface : well , i had basically industrial designer : okay . hmm . uh . user interface : something like this . to make it kind of futuristic . industrial designer : mm . oh , i realise if we make it small , then it needs to be a little thicker , project manager : i think it 's a very industrial designer : because i need to put all the electronics in it . project manager : sorry ? industrial designer : if we make it s uh smaller , uh less wide , then we need to m make it a little thicker , project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : because i have to put all the electronics in it . project manager : okay . mm-hmm . yeah , but you have to j just keep in mind it should n't be too heavy . marketing : okay . project manager : i mean we can stick it in in there , i think . huh even if in the worst case we can even user interface : what kind of project manager : could you give me the pen back ? user interface : yeah , sure . project manager : so let 's say that people would want an lcd thing . let 's take take the basic design again , what we oh , crap uh came up with . i 'll just make it a little bigger now . so a transmitter here . anyway . we could let 's say we have an lcd screen , people want an lcd screen . so then we should probably put it here . marketing : project manager : it does n't have to be really big , but just just have to be has to be there . think it 's a good place , people do n't marketing : if you 're reading from top to bottom , i think it 's better to put it uh at the top . project manager : no ? it 's not that uh it 's not the most important function , industrial designer : me too . marketing : it 's j project manager : it 's just an extra thing , it just you press the buttons on top , marketing : uh . but i if you if you are going to uh put the lcd on it , i think it 's very important to use it , industrial designer : but . project manager : because your finger is on top . marketing : uh because it 's use it uh project manager : how can you use an lcd screen ? marketing : but nee the function of it . so you can use it maximum , because uh it 's a lot it costs a lot . project manager : yeah , but why marketing : so project manager : i i 'm not sure . user interface : now it 's pretty much tucked away in your hand . project manager : uh if you t if you press a button , you can see it , industrial designer : hmm . no . project manager : ri i 'm not sure wha i 'm trying to imagine myself what it would look like . user interface : i 'm industrial designer : m i personally would prefer it on the top . project manager : you would prefer it n okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we have three people saying it should be on top . okay , but then you would would s have to stack away your buttons somewhere else . industrial designer : but it hmm . project manager : anyways . marketing : it 's expensive to build it , project manager : uh this looks a little user interface : i 'm still not convinced of the marketing : you must use the maximum of it . project manager : about the lcds thing . user interface : yeah . project manager : well if it if it 's if it 's possible wi if it 's not too expensive , we should include it , industrial designer : they want it uh . project manager : because it 's it 's cool . industrial designer : we should just try to make that if it 's possible . if it is possible we should really do it , but we need that information . marketing : huh . uh . but uh industrial designer : also keep in mind again , the lcd screen is very flat , but it needs transistors , resistors , i do n't know what more and that needs space . so i have to look if that 's possible . marketing : yeah , i know uh . user interface : so basically industrial designer : but if we user interface : can i project manager : uh we have green now uh user interface : what we have to decide now is uh what goes on top . do we put the volume control and the channel control here , or do we put it on he would we like to press it in the middle ? project manager : or maybe we should m we could uh draw draw something a bit that has it on on on the bottom . marketing : in middle of it . in the middle . project manager : maybe in a circle for example , like we like in this example . i think this is not good , but for we could make circular buttons for example . for up and down , ma make it a circle on it , user interface : yes , but we do agree that we keep this at the centre , project manager : because it marketing : yeah . user interface : because it 's basically the most important function . project manager : i think the channel button should be in the centre . marketing : it 's the most import yeah . project manager : channel button should be st stick together , for example here in this section . because it 's uh user interface : well , that would make them quite small . project manager : we 're not sure about the size anyway , user interface : so maybe you 'd put them here . project manager : just a general design . you can make it as big as you want . for example if you take uh user interface : yes , but a big remote control probably not something which people would like . project manager : let 's see . for example just industrial designer : if we have a a space issue , we can also lose one battery . it is rechargeable , so we can stick with one instead of two . project manager : yeah . marketing : . project manager : i do n't think if we if we even use an lcd screen , we need to , definitely . industrial designer : that might be an option . yeah , but if we need two batteries and an lcd screen , that means a lot of space that we need . project manager : yeah , but we have to see what the si what the size is . industrial designer : but it has to be a little bit heavier . project manager : the lcd does n't have to nee does n't need to be very big . industrial designer : okay . marketing : industrial designer : no , but the things behind it . space . project manager : mm let 's see . industrial designer : like a process uh . marketing : finish meeting now . project manager : finish meeting now . marketing : it 's on your computer . project manager : okay , we will . so either user interface : so would we like this or would we like the project manager : we either we have to decide what what people want . industrial designer : i like this one more . project manager : either this one , this this could be the luxurious one . so we have channel buttons here . i 'm just drawing something uh . uh i think this would this would look cool . you could have it for example small buttons here for some extra functions , so if your basic function 's here , we should like we decided before , programmes up and down , and volume here . user interface : let 's see what we have here . marketing : or and uh what about speech recognition uh project manager : well you can just no , i 'm not sure if we can do that , marketing : yeah , yeah , project manager : but we could put a microphone in here for example . marketing : but or or an lcd or an uh speech . i think it 's lcd is better now . project manager : just to do research into both , w what it costs and what it takes for space . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i 'll try to . project manager : but let 's cut the meeting for now yes . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : one more uh thing i 'd like to say , uh let 's give this uh a name , and not like some vague serial number that no one understands , like with cars . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah , okay , yeah , industrial designer : shall we all try uh to think about a name ? user interface : so i think of a name . marketing : that 's project manager : yeah , let 's think of a name , okay . marketing : yeah , that 's okay . project manager : uh okay . marketing : oh , good . project manager : okay , at anyways , the the minutes will be on the on the web shortly , user interface : so project manager : so there we go uh . user interface : yes , go and finish up and i 'll see you at lunch . project manager : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : good luck . project manager : yeah , to all . user interface : yeah . marketing : same . industrial designer : yeah , i 've do we uh save the ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about presentations about ideas on the remote control . </s> project manager : today , functional design phase . i 'll take you over the minutes of last last meeting . okay , that was just to get to know each other , have a little thoughts on what your vision is and on this project , so i put the minutes on the i made on the on the p the the project share , so if you wan na review them , they 're there . i will do so after every meeting , so if you have some information you wan na take back you can find it there . anyways , um today three presentations , from every one of you . um after that i got some new project requirements from project board , so we 're gon na go af go after over this later . but i wan na start with uh stuff you did first , so we can see what everybody came up with . and after that we can have the new requirements and share some thoughts , so . who would like wan na go first ? marketing : yeah , sure , no problem . project manager : take it . user interface : go ahead . marketing : um there was a little problem with my computer so not uh the whole uh presentation uh project manager : anyway , let 's see what you have . marketing : yeah . um okay , project manager : uh it 's still a bit open . marketing : i want to open the my s oh no . project manager : you should close it on your own notebook , i guess . yeah . so there ? marketing : oh no , project manager : okay . marketing : that 's okay . uh slide show . yes . the functional requirements , it 's uh uh very important for uh the user , he he wants to yeah . the the method we used uh it it 's not m not a slide , because it went wrong , but the method we use uh , um we tested it w uh with uh a hundred uh men , and we asked them to w uh what the remote uh f feel uh like and uh what what 's uh important . uh project manager : if i can cut in , is it people or men ? marketing : people , project manager : is it people , okay . marketing : sorry . project manager : 'cause i thought it was only men , marketing : both women and men , project manager : so marketing : yeah . project manager : 'kay . marketing : okay . uh the findings um uh seventy five percent of the users find most remote controls ugly . um user interface : that 's pretty shocking uh . project manager : so we have to s we have to do something about that . marketing : yeah , and yeah , most th th they want to spend money for a better system , for better remote control , so we can do uh a l a little uh nice things with it , and um they use yeah , they use zap a lot , um uh fifty percent say they only so that 's the most important things . project manager : okay . marketing : um oh yeah , not all of it is it on mine on my powerpoint presentation , project manager : okay , just talk ahead . marketing : but um uh the relevant buttons are the power , the channel selection and the volume selection . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's uh the most basic buttons that a user wants uh to use . uh less important is tel teletext , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh um they use it , but it 's not uh very uh important uh on the scale of zero to ten they six and a half uh project manager : okay , that 's okay . user interface : marketing : and but not important is the channel selection , the the hmm ? project manager : that 's a little weird . marketing : oh , user interface : which channel selection ? marketing : the the no no no no no , that 's very important , but uh w and not important in the audio settings , display settings project manager : okay , marketing : and uh project manager : we can we can hide those under a menu or something , user interface : oh , okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : um new preferences preferences . uh um um beep to find your control , was project manager : that 's like a button on your tv ? marketing : that was in the test , the the most people uh f find it uh irritating uh when they can not find a rem their remote control , project manager : remote , okay . marketing : so uh i think it 's a bee beep to sound it and uh you can find it . and another thing uh they want was uh speech recognition um so they can say uh what they want to let 's go to channel one and uh that 's uh kind of things . project manager : okay . marketing : and they want maybe an uh lcd screen um to to look it um wh what 's on every channel uh and uh what do i want with it ? user interface : project manager : we wan na have a little preview on the remote control . preview what 's on the channel . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : is that manageable ? 'cause it sounds pretty expensive too . project manager : that sounds too marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's possible , but uh i think it 's expensive , but do continue . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . um uh my personal preferences is uh a button for my favourite channel , so i can uh i dunno , so i can zap to my uh f uh quick uh to my favourite channel wh what i uh so , the remote mu must see or um must um see wha what mine preferences are for which channel , project manager : okay , you do n't set it yourself , marketing : so i can zap t to project manager : it just remembers the channel that you are on most , for example . marketing : what ? project manager : you want the you want it to be programmed , for example y programmed f marketing : yeah . project manager : or you want it to recognise your favourite channel ? marketing : yeah . project manager : let 's see , you you spend twenty minutes each day on that channel , marketing : recognise project manager : so it recognises your favourite channel . marketing : yeah . yeah , that 's uh what my personal preference like . project manager : okay , so it 's it it does it recognise itself , you do n't have to set it okay . marketing : itself . maybe it 's easier to to sell it , but project manager : okay . marketing : i do n't know it 's manageable , but we will uh we will see . project manager : i see . marketing : yeah , it 's a little bit uh it 's the end of it . project manager : okay . marketing : it 's a little bit uh i lost it , user interface : okay . marketing : the computer uh crashed , project manager : no problem , it 's it 's okay , that 's yeah , go ahead . user interface : shall i go ? okay . marketing : yeah . user interface : so , some technical functions . marketing : darn computer . user interface : basically i have some issues which you discussed earlier . uh let 's just start with the method . marketing : yeah . user interface : it sounds really easy , what does the user do , what does the th remote control do , but there are quite some issues . so the things i 'm going to concentrate on are the user aspect , because the technical aspect , that 's pretty much covered . we can do that . what goes wrong at the user . gets the remote control . where is the remote control ? we 've all had it once , i want to watch some television , marketing : yeah . user interface : where 's the remote control ? that was one of your ideas which you posted in the network folder , marketing : yeah . project manager : that seems very good . user interface : a really good idea . uh these are just the issues . i come to some uh personal experience , findings , possible solutions later . searches for the button . there are many buttons on a remote control which are not clear . uh so either we lose those or we try to make it a little bit more clear . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : uh also symbols tend to fade after a while . marketing : mm uh . user interface : there 's nothing more annoying than faded symbols , because you do n't know which channel is this button , so possibly we could find uh something for that , project manager : okay , so have it more make it more durable actually . okay . user interface : yes . uh covered that . oh yes , user presses the button . um usually when you have a lot of buttons , buttons are small . so you press more once remote control goes kablouey or something like that , project manager : okay , so the buttons should be user interface : so we have to pay attention not to put too mun too many buttons on uh the remote control . project manager : mm-hmm . yeah . user interface : and possibly also the size , so more important buttons , bigger project manager : wow . the s yeah . make it make them bigger . even more durable uh . user interface : so this is basically what i h had in mind in the fade-proof symbols , locator , a sound , uh so clear we should stick to existing symbols , but maybe we could do a little uh investigation to see whether some symbols are uh need to be replaced by others . uh project manager : okay . user interface : this i pretty much covered . so what we want to go to is not this one , project manager : yeah , it 's true . user interface : but more less buttons , easy , some bigger buttons . marketing : yeah . user interface : that 's basically uh what i had in mind . so project manager : yeah , that 's clear . user interface : this is not the final design , project manager : no , of course uh user interface : this is just a general idea of how i 'd like to see uh basically the general idea . project manager : yeah . i must say that it hmm . user interface : so that was it . project manager : that was it . okay , that was good . so we agree on the the part that we need to get something on the on the remote to find it somewhere and increase it the durability of of the thing , user interface : yeah , i think it 's a really good idea . project manager : so user interface : yeah . project manager : the other aspects , we 'll just see how what you came up with and what 's possible for that budget . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : okay , that 's fine . um . okay , now work a little with me . okay . well , project manager : industrial designer : let 's start it as it is . okay , uh the method . there are a few questions that need to be answered , uh you already uh talked about it a little bit . which buttons are wanted , uh is our remote control universal or should it be programmable . uh if it should be programmeab grammeale then we need um something like a mode that you can switch it . because then the buttons have to send out a different signal then they would normally do . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh how big is the remote control uh going to be ? i 'll tell you why that 's important to me . um there are a lot of technical parts in the remote control , so uh uh that 's why i also would like to say uh go a little bit easy on the designs , uh i heard ab uh you talking about beeps and about uh video screens , but uh the material inside and the technical aspects are quite complex already . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so keep in mind that everything that you keep uh think of , it has to b to be built . project manager : yeah . of course , hmm . industrial designer : so it 's that 's not as easy as it s might look like . user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh material study , i 'm working on that um for the the costs . i have to check out how far i can go with that . normally , a circuit board is made of fibreglass uh and the wires are made of copper . uh that is how it is done and all the remote controls work that way , i think we can just go on with that . um then i 've read more integration of materials means less cost for the production . the more we can make uh at once uh in one piece , uh that is cheaper . project manager : you mean integrate them all into the circuit board . okay . industrial designer : exactly , so if we make a circuit board with the the connections already on it , then that 's cheaper . project manager : yeah , okay . industrial designer : so we have to make something that 's not too difficult in design again . project manager : so you have industrial designer : this is what look like uh looks like if you press one button , so this is not the entire thing . you have the the power coming in , then you have like a switch . the switch uh uh uh if you p press it then some electrical charge goes into the processor , that thinks over a morse code , that 's how you should see it . the morse code goes to the amplifier , then uh the signal is sent to two uh light bulbs . you have infrared and an interv um uh how to say it ? uh a light in indication , light that you know that it 's functioning . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh here again , that 's my story about the different modes , if you do want to make remote uh universal , then the processor has to uh make up a different morse code when some button is pressed . that makes it much more complex , so we really need to have a look , do we want that or not . uh i do n't have any personal p uh preferences uh so far , except for uh the materials to be used uh light , that they are light . project manager : okay . okay . that was it ? </s>
<s> what did the market feedback about common remote controls said by marketing ? </s> marketing : okay . uh the findings um uh seventy five percent of the users find most remote controls ugly . um user interface : that 's pretty shocking uh . project manager : so we have to s we have to do something about that . marketing : yeah , and yeah , most th th they want to spend money for a better system , for better remote control , so we can do uh a l a little uh nice things with it , and um they use yeah , they use zap a lot , um uh fifty percent say they only so that 's the most important things . project manager : okay . marketing : um oh yeah , not all of it is it on mine on my powerpoint presentation , project manager : okay , just talk ahead . marketing : but um uh the relevant buttons are the power , the channel selection and the volume selection . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's uh the most basic buttons that a user wants uh to use . uh less important is tel teletext , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh um they use it , but it 's not uh very uh important uh on the scale of zero to ten they six and a half uh project manager : okay , that 's okay . user interface : marketing : and but not important is the channel selection , the the hmm ? project manager : that 's a little weird . marketing : oh , user interface : which channel selection ? marketing : the the no no no no no , that 's very important , but uh w and not important in the audio settings , display settings project manager : okay , marketing : and uh project manager : we can we can hide those under a menu or something , user interface : oh , okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : um new preferences preferences . uh um um beep to find your control , was project manager : that 's like a button on your tv ? marketing : that was in the test , the the most people uh f find it uh irritating uh when they can not find a rem their remote control , project manager : remote , okay . marketing : so uh i think it 's a bee beep to sound it and uh you can find it . and another thing uh they want was uh speech recognition um so they can say uh what they want to let 's go to channel one and uh that 's uh kind of things . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> why did industrial designer not agree to what marketing and user interface said before ? </s> industrial designer : okay , that 's fine . um . okay , now work a little with me . okay . well , project manager : industrial designer : let 's start it as it is . okay , uh the method . there are a few questions that need to be answered , uh you already uh talked about it a little bit . which buttons are wanted , uh is our remote control universal or should it be programmable . uh if it should be programmeab grammeale then we need um something like a mode that you can switch it . because then the buttons have to send out a different signal then they would normally do . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh how big is the remote control uh going to be ? i 'll tell you why that 's important to me . um there are a lot of technical parts in the remote control , so uh uh that 's why i also would like to say uh go a little bit easy on the designs , uh i heard ab uh you talking about beeps and about uh video screens , but uh the material inside and the technical aspects are quite complex already . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so keep in mind that everything that you keep uh think of , it has to b to be built . project manager : yeah . of course , hmm . industrial designer : so it 's that 's not as easy as it s might look like . user interface : okay . industrial designer : uh material study , i 'm working on that um for the the costs . i have to check out how far i can go with that . normally , a circuit board is made of fibreglass uh and the wires are made of copper . uh that is how it is done and all the remote controls work that way , i think we can just go on with that . um then i 've read more integration of materials means less cost for the production . the more we can make uh at once uh in one piece , uh that is cheaper . project manager : you mean integrate them all into the circuit board . okay . industrial designer : exactly , so if we make a circuit board with the the connections already on it , then that 's cheaper . project manager : yeah , okay . industrial designer : so we have to make something that 's not too difficult in design again . project manager : so you have industrial designer : this is what look like uh looks like if you press one button , so this is not the entire thing . you have the the power coming in , then you have like a switch . the switch uh uh uh if you p press it then some electrical charge goes into the processor , that thinks over a morse code , that 's how you should see it . the morse code goes to the amplifier , then uh the signal is sent to two uh light bulbs . you have infrared and an interv um uh how to say it ? uh a light in indication , light that you know that it 's functioning . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh here again , that 's my story about the different modes , if you do want to make remote uh universal , then the processor has to uh make up a different morse code when some button is pressed . that makes it much more complex , so we really need to have a look , do we want that or not . uh i do n't have any personal p uh preferences uh so far , except for uh the materials to be used uh light , that they are light . project manager : okay . okay . that was it ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the new requirements for the functional design of their new product . </s> project manager : i 'll get back to my thing then . uh okay , back this up to the screen . so i got some new information on the project specifications are changing a little . like you said uh teletext is not not very popular anymore because the uh the internet , nowadays people do n't use the teletext anymore or hardly , so it can either well , i do n't think we should remove the button , because there are always people who are using it . user interface : yeah . project manager : but i do n't think it should be very it should be one of the big buttons for example . just put it somewhere or under second option or whatever . it 's not important anymore . um we 're targeting young people now , because our um this is a new product and with this new product we want to appeal to younger people , which are um the younger people were defined under forty . marketing : yeah . project manager : i so i think it 's that 's also good with the fashion and everything , so yeah . marketing : yeah , and they want to pay for it project manager : they want to pay for it , people are willing to spend money actually to buy a um remote that they like . marketing : and uh project manager : if they like the way it looks , the way it functions , so they 're actually gon na spend uh spend money on it . marketing : with more where with more technical specifications project manager : yeah . marketing : in the project manager : see how far we can go with it anyway , so marketing : yeah . project manager : and one thing that should be important is that the corporate l colour and slogan are recognisable , which is apparently black and yellow , but i 'm not sure if we i think we should keep the the logo in mind , because with colours you can uh have a lot of uh fashionable colours and everything on it , which suits everybody 's taste . so with that concept i started thinking , so why not just steal nokia 's idea and just make changeable covers for your i mean those cost hardly anything i think , and people could even spend extra money on buying a cover industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and so have an entire new remote control that they like to see . or we can sh for example we can make a different a basic design . and sell the covers separately , for example . that 's just a little marketing idea that could be applied , so you can p it appeals to really everyone . so you do n't have to i think you do n't have to make entire remote controls . we make a basic one and manufacture this cover separately . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so that was that was my idea on what we could do to appeal this product to everyone . so just i 'm not sure if you came up with anything in the meantime , after making a presentation . would you like to share ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : no , i think this is a good idea . project manager : okay . industrial designer : but marketing : but oh ? user interface : is it manageable ? is it easy ? industrial designer : go ahead . marketing : yeah , with with an lcd screen you can project manager : oh yeah . i think we should lose the lcd screen , industrial designer : y yes , i think so too . project manager : like you said . i think for example it 's it 's huge i think the lcd is huge , user interface : yeah . marketing : why ? nokia w project manager : it consumes batteries like hell . i think it takes up a lot of a lot of power . user interface : and it costs too much to fabricate , project manager : it costs a lot , i think . user interface : so we 're on a tight budget here . industrial designer : okay , uh project manager : what we could do , what could be possible , is maybe not an lcd screen but with a preview , marketing : okay . project manager : but y i 'm not sure if it 's even possible . for example , a little tv guide . like you have a little just just a text only , not colour , just a little text thing industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : so you can use your remote as a tv guide . i 'm not sure it 's even possible , industrial designer : hmm . i have to check that out , project manager : but maybe okay , make it industrial designer : i 'm not sure . project manager : yeah , find a little compromise in that , but what did i write down ? marketing : yeah . project manager : i think the p yeah , the beep is a very simple thing to imple implement , just make a button on your tv industrial designer : that must be possible . project manager : and just hit the button , it beeps somewhere . i think it 's easy to implement , we should go for that . industrial designer : i 'm sorry , project manager : uh speech recognition . user interface : and it 's industrial designer : whe where do you wan na hit the t_ you wan na we want a button on the television . project manager : i thin yeah , i mean where else should you put it ? industrial designer : in th okay , but that rules out a universal remote control . project manager : yeah , industrial designer : because that 's not possible uh . project manager : but how are you gon na use that if your i mean if your remote control is lost , how are you gon na press where are you gon na press the button ? industrial designer : uh . yeah . exactly . user interface : maybe just a slap-on sticker with a button which sends out a small signal . project manager : a slap-on sticker . oh , you mean as like a separate thing you can attach to your tv . marketing : mm uh . project manager : yeah , that could be possible . user interface : yeah , exactly . project manager : a little little box you can attach to your tv is fine then , okay . industrial designer : okay , then uh i 'd i 'd like to know now if we want the uh universal remote control or not , because that 's uh determines everything i 'm gon na do . project manager : i think it 's universal . i think we should go for universal , industrial designer : if not project manager : because apparently we 're a separate company making separate c remote controls to sell to a lot of diverse people . industrial designer : okay . project manager : i think universal remote control should be possible . marketing : yeah . um industrial designer : okay , then i go for that . marketing : everyone uh wants to buy it , so we w project manager : yeah , i think we 're targeting everyone , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so remote industrial designer : okay . no , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : it 's fine with me , but then i know what to look for . project manager : okay , universal is good . speech recognition , i think it 's very hard , because we 're selling across multiple countries . so i think implementing speech recognition is such a small um apparatus , it 's very hard to do . marketing : yeah . or one . user interface : and it 's marketing : or when you say one two uh i it uh it 's enough , project manager : yeah , but i do n't see arabian people speaking one , two uh whatever . marketing : right ? but oh yeah . user interface : besides that , the technology is n't really super yet , so that is a problem in implementing this . project manager : it 's yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's not a mature technology , i think it takes a lot of memory and everything in in a remote control , marketing : okay . project manager : so user interface : it 's a good idea , but it 's just not i do n't think the market 's ripe for that yet . project manager : i do n't think it should be implemented in a remote control yet uh . industrial designer : uh-huh . project manager : what else do we have ? marketing : yeah . project manager : um well you should you should look into the in into the materials that are real durable . so the the the symbols wo n't fade , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe a little harder plastic industrial designer : exactly . project manager : or especially li we do n't industrial designer : i already noted that . project manager : maybe we do n't have have to do all the buttons , but especially the ones that are um the popular buttons , so those always fade first . industrial designer : mm , okay . okay . project manager : mm the thing is the most important things that we have now . let 's see . industrial designer : if we uh make a remote control with changeable covers , then we can also make uh a cover for every language area . project manager : for example ? industrial designer : that 's fo is uh especially for older people , that they can read it read it in their own language . project manager : well , we 're not we 're not targeting older people , marketing : yeah . project manager : we should remember that . everything we target is under forty , industrial designer : that 's okay , okay . project manager : you assume that that they read correctly and i think they 're the most important thing about young people is that they 're really sensitive to to trends that are passing through the world , so industrial designer : uh okay . user interface : but should the exchangeable covers include the buttons themselves or just the project manager : no , of course . no , i think it 's just something you you put over them , because yeah we c yeah , you ca well , tha that 's not a that 's not a bad that 's not even marketing : but every user interface : that 's a problem with the with the text then . project manager : it 's not even a bad idea . i mean , for example , if you 're if you 're into the durability issue you could user interface : project manager : for example , if your buttons are faded , after i mean if you make a durable remote , they are faded , you can just buy a new cover . uh i 'm not sure it 's it 's hard to make . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so it 's a good and a bad idea . industrial designer : uh but i know that the buttons are like a nokia telephone on uh one sleeve , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so you do n't have to change your whole cover . uh we can make something that you can only remove the sleeve . user interface : oh yeah , i know what you mean . industrial designer : know what i mean ? it works the same as a nokia telephone , it 's it 's in my uh 'kay . project manager : yeah , i know , it 's just just a one one piece of rubber for example , marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . yeah , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : exactly . project manager : that 's what i something i have to look into . either either change both the buttons and and the cover or just the cover , i 'm not sure which which is easier , industrial designer : hmm . project manager : so um anyway , yeah , this is what we 're gon na do afterwards , just lunch break and have more individual work after that , so let 's see what we let 's see we so you have to come up with a components concept , yeah . i want some you should do some trend-watching , because even if we 're if we 're gon na do those covers and everything , what people really want , that 's what we need to know in this phase , marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : because that 's gon na be the essential final design that we 're gon na come up with . marketing : okay . project manager : um yeah , i think user interface is fairly obvious . i mean it should be very intuitive , user interface : pretty straightforward . project manager : s yeah , it should speak for itself . uh for example i bought a remote control last week with a new tv , it was it l it 's like all buttons and you have no idea what it does at first , industrial designer : project manager : and i 'm total tv new , anyway . so i think it should be have less or l very little buttons and maybe a second second level menu for the advanced things . or maybe just stick 'em under a menu , like you said the um the sound options and the surround and whatever , they 're more complicated , just stick 'em under one menu and uh give it a just put it in in s in a software piece , you can menu and you can uh select everything you want to to set on your tv . user interface : is it techni technically possible to uh send a signal to a television and then pops up a menu , project manager : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : because we 're working with different types of television , so we 're going to work with that ? project manager : that is true . industrial designer : i do n't think so . project manager : no , that 's true . industrial designer : no , i do n't think so . because the television needs to respond to the signal , project manager : yeah , that 's true . user interface : it 's an in-built menu , industrial designer : and if it does n't know how , it 's user interface : is n't it ? yes . industrial designer : exactly , that 's not possible . user interface : so basically project manager : i 'm not sure if it 's impossible , user interface : we project manager : but uh there 's a chance it 's not , so . user interface : or we could use a double-sided for less used functions project manager : a double-sided remote control ? user interface : you project manager : i do n't think that 's useful . user interface : yeah , with the cover . i it 's basically an idea to overcome these issues , project manager : yeah , but then you 're gon na have a lot of wasted buttons . user interface : because project manager : for example you have a sony tv and the half of the buttons wo n't function if you have a for a sony that wo n't for a philips tv . user interface : no , but basic functions marketing : yeah . user interface : but functions which are not frequently used . project manager : i do n't think we should user interface : because if we use a universal remote control , we 're going to have to have most buttons on it , project manager : yeah , for exam user interface : so project manager : i 'm not s marketing : mm yeah . project manager : yeah , for ex you have to make it a little decision between the part if you want a universal remote control that it should do what people usually do with their tvs , not not the very complicated settings that you can usually do that with uh either a old old remote control if they really hate that thing , but you ca n't you can not take into consideration all the different brands of tvs . industrial designer : but that might be broken . project manager : i think there 's i think there is a standard for example between uh industrial designer : hmm . project manager : because usually the the menu is the menu button is is usable between different brands . especially the big ones , the big brands , industrial designer : hmm . hmm . project manager : so . 'cause everybody i have a universal remote control and it can use the menu button , so i think i 'm not sure , if you can put some research into that , if it 's possible . uh i think just a b industrial designer : mm okay . project manager : and the navigation is very basic , it 's usually the same thing . industrial designer : mm . but i think there must be a way uh to invoke the more complicated functions of a television . for instance , if your old remote control is broken and you buy ours , then uh you should be able to get everything out of the television that 's in it . project manager : yeah . yeah , that 's true . i think so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : because otherwise you 'll lose functions by buying our marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : uh we need to put some research into that if if we can open the menu , i think it 's possible , just the way how to . industrial designer : okay , i thi i think so too . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah , then then you could do everything i suppose , because usually the tvs have tha that inside in this other little piece of software , so it 's okay . industrial designer : and i think that our r remote control should not look like uh any other . for instance uh sony makes all their remote controls exactly the same for all their devices , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and you always grab the wrong one because formatting of the buttons is exactly the same , only the labels are different . project manager : yeah . yeah i think it should be a little distinct from everything else , industrial designer : we should not do that . project manager : because it 's either it 's both mayb industrial designer : exactly . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah , project manager : maybe the shape can be a little different . user interface : i have some ideas . i have some ideas . project manager : maybe it 's a little more curves or whatever . industrial designer : mm that 's your uh division . marketing : um yeah . and uh with different colours uh . project manager : so um user interface : i 'll put some on paper and present them next time uh the ideas that i have . project manager : yeah , this . not sure what marketing : okay . project manager : because we have forty minutes , i 'm not sure how much time we have left for the meeting anyway , so . user interface : i heard a beep go . project manager : yeah , but it was n't me , it was him closing something . </s>
<s> what did project manager and industrial designer discuss about making an universal remote control ? </s> project manager : because usually the the menu is the menu button is is usable between different brands . especially the big ones , the big brands , industrial designer : hmm . hmm . project manager : so . 'cause everybody i have a universal remote control and it can use the menu button , so i think i 'm not sure , if you can put some research into that , if it 's possible . uh i think just a b industrial designer : mm okay . project manager : and the navigation is very basic , it 's usually the same thing . industrial designer : mm . but i think there must be a way uh to invoke the more complicated functions of a television . for instance , if your old remote control is broken and you buy ours , then uh you should be able to get everything out of the television that 's in it . project manager : yeah . yeah , that 's true . i think so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : because otherwise you 'll lose functions by buying our marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : uh we need to put some research into that if if we can open the menu , i think it 's possible , just the way how to . industrial designer : okay , i thi i think so too . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : yeah , then then you could do everything i suppose , because usually the tvs have tha that inside in this other little piece of software , so it 's okay . industrial designer : and i think that our r remote control should not look like uh any other . for instance uh sony makes all their remote controls exactly the same for all their devices , </s>
<s> what did the team talk about button design of the remote control ? </s> project manager : so anyway , yeah , we could do some i do some work now on on the design for example . i mean what do you want , do you want , but user interface : yeah , but we like some some curves or project manager : yeah , may maybe something like this . but though smooth inside . so you have the transmitter here for example . user interface : yeah . project manager : let 's see that you what would be handy . i think that the the buttons should be the channel buttons should be uh on their own . marketing : uh . and a light uh project manager : let 's see one , two god damn it . user interface : oh , we get the general ideas , yes . project manager : yeah , okay . another one here . let 's see what i think this should these are always on top of the of the control , so they should be here . user interface : yeah , and since you 're holding it like this , i suggest you put the channel up channel down and volume project manager : think it 's like this . marketing : volume . project manager : withi within the yeah , just take it . user interface : yeah yeah . so you have the up channel the down channel the volume , do we want that horizontal or vertical ? project manager : do you take triangles or marketing : uh it 's it 's fine , i think . project manager : um i think it should be i think it user interface : this is basically what people are accustomed to , project manager : maybe we should make 'em bigger or whatever . user interface : so industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , but this is just a g general idea . marketing : oh d project manager : yeah . user interface : uh maybe the menu button can go i in the middle . project manager : yeah , in the middle . it 's it 's usually uh there , but mm . user interface : whoa . industrial designer : perhaps we should also make uh something like a flash on it , if you if it 's lost , for people that are deaf . they they wo n't hear the the beep . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , but for example if it 's lost in your armchair , we 'll not see the flash . user interface : you wo n't be able to find it . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and flash takes up a lot of batteries again . industrial designer : uh . yeah , it 's true , but it 's it 's only has to do so when you press the button that it 's lost . marketing : just project manager : yeah . user interface : we could make a combination that it goes beep and that you that some light lights up . industrial designer : so . deaf people ? marketing : and l_e_d_ uh on it . project manager : yeah , i thought about for deaf people for example , so . we could do that . uh let 's see . marketing : just a light on it or user interface : so we have the basic channels we 've got here , uh the power button somewhere over here ? project manager : oh yeah , it 's true . um that thing should be central . marketing : very important . project manager : you should n't be you uh should n't press it by accident , but it should n't be stacked away somewhere . user interface : i usually press it on top . marketing : that 's it 's project manager : yeah . user interface : at least that 's what i 'm accustomed to . industrial designer : i have another idea , project manager : yeah , like that 's gon na work . industrial designer : i 'm not sure if it 's possible . marketing : and user interface : what would you like to ? project manager : yeah , i thought maybe we should move the buttons down marketing : but you r project manager : and put it here for example marketing : and you are reading from the t project manager : to marketing : you always read from the top to the the bottom of it . project manager : from top to bottom . yeah , that 's true , marketing : yeah , project manager : you should marketing : so it 's project manager : i think the bu the power button should be on top , marketing : yeah . project manager : 'cause it 's the first thing you do , turn it on . so power button on top . um user interface : okay , mute button . is that somewhere here ? project manager : mute . do we hardly i think it should be at the bottom somewhere . user interface : is that used often ? marketing : so i it 's user interface : the mute button ? do people use that often ? marketing : sorry ? project manager : mute . turn the sound off . marketing : no , it 's no . user interface : 'cause uh i 'm pretty much accustomed to it right over here , at least in general , marketing : uh . hmm . user interface : but project manager : i do n't think it 's important , but i think it i think it should be you c user interface : it 's not that important , no . project manager : you could put it somewhere here . marketing : or or with the volume selection . project manager : no , because it yeah , people are accustomed to that , marketing : around uh not uh not at top at the around the volume selection . project manager : it 's can i have that ? that 's j user interface : sure . marketing : i do n't know where exactly , project manager : take this out and here see marketing : but project manager : uh are we gon na take triangles anyway ? i 'm drawing triangles , but marketing : user interface : that 's pretty much what people are accustomed to , project manager : yeah , user interface : are n't they ? project manager : it 's maybe a bigger lesser than thing . so anyway , i think this is should be the channels and or sh user interface : well , i 'm accustomed to the channels being on top . marketing : no . yeah . project manager : here , industrial designer : yeah , me too . project manager : okay . okay , marketing : yeah , that 's better . project manager : should we chan marketing : on the right . </s>
<s> what did the team think of a rechargeable remote when discussing remote control 's functional design and production cost ? </s> industrial designer : shall we uh also look if it 's possible to make a rechargeable remote ? that you do n't have to buy new batteries if every project manager : well , marketing : yeah . project manager : for that is it 's on one part it 's um it 's a good thing to recharge it marketing : maybe it 's more ex expensive . industrial designer : mm , yeah . project manager : maybe we should what what could be possible is one with rechargeable batteries for example . you have just put penlite batteries that are rechargeable , because it 's an it 's it 's it 's very annoying . user interface : but is n't that expensive in the entire package ? industrial designer : but that 's already possible . marketing : yeah . project manager : i 'm not sure y i 'm not sure it 's if it 's expensive , but just take a look at it , because it might be a very good idea . because if it 's it 's uh useful to have it rechargeable , but at the same time , if you do n't want recha if you forgot to recharge it and you wan na watch tv now , you wan na be able to put different batteries in it , use it now and not in half an hour . industrial designer : yes . yes . okay . uh you could make a device , but i 'm not sure how that uh is possible with the costs , that you can put in normal batteries , rechargeable , project manager : i think i have a nice idea . industrial designer : but it you 're the remote also can act as a recharger . so then you can choose , you have every decision . know what i mean ? project manager : not exactly uh . industrial designer : you can uh put in normal penlites , rechargeable penlites , but they can also be recharged with the remote , with a wire . marketing : hmm . yeah yeah . project manager : i think it 's uh it 's a pretty good idea to have uh like sort of a maybe a base station that you put on the tv . could be flat , you could insert your uh remote into it . industrial designer : so but marketing : yeah , that 's g industrial designer : but i think that will cost a lot . project manager : i 'm not sure . industrial designer : uh a normal wire would be better . project manager : a what ? industrial designer : like a like a p_d_a_ , a hand-held . you can uh just put it in the electricity and it charges itself , project manager : well , we were talking about the fact that we wanted to insert either a beep or a flash into the thing with a little separate signal industrial designer : you do n't need basic station . yes . project manager : or so you could put that on a tv for example . industrial designer : that is possible , that 's true . project manager : it could be very flat , could be very small . marketing : but which project manager : it 's a very small yeah , i 'm drawing it big now , but so you can put your remote on flat for example . and at the backside of remote just just just a little hole marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : for example um you just put it down , it recharges for example . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i do n't think it 's very expensive . user interface : but again , is n't that too expensive ? marketing : yeah . user interface : 'cause that means that we have to implement rechargeable batteries , a docking station industrial designer : project manager : i 'm not sure if it costs a lot , that that 's what he r that 's that you that 's what you buy yourself . industrial designer : yes . i 'm going to try to find that out . i 'm not sure if there 's information available on this , project manager : it 's just an idea , we have to find out if it 's possible . industrial designer : but marketing : but user interface : and do people actually want that ? to pay extra they want to pay for rechargeable ? marketing : yeah , they want to pay for it . project manager : do they want but they want a rechargeable one ? marketing : yeah . project manager : i 'm not sure , you should find out if it 's if rechargeable is important . marketing : th uh there was not a el ask esque project manager : yeah . industrial designer : hmm . these are uh comfort issues . so i think people will pay they wanted to pay for comfort . marketing : but project manager : they want to pay for comfort , </s>
<s> summarize what their remote control would look like . </s> project manager : uh we just have to see what it looks like . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i would like to make a decision . what it costs and what kind of materials that we can uh choose what we want in it project manager : yeah , if you have some financial information that that 'd be nice , industrial designer : and exactly , i need it . project manager : so . hmm . user interface : could you post some other essentials of what people want , so that i can work with some buttons , where to put it project manager : marketing : yeah . user interface : you seem to have information on that , i 'd like to uh see some of it . industrial designer : was it not possible to uh send emails around the office ? project manager : no , it was n't was n't allo user interface : no , it 's not . no . project manager : it was possible , industrial designer : not . project manager : not allowed , so . so that 's um why i 'm not sure that you 're allowed to share documents on the on the draft . marketing : yeah . my computer crashed , industrial designer : yeah , okay . project manager : i do n't care . i have n't heard any complaints yet , user interface : oh , your computer . okay . marketing : i lost my uh presentation , project manager : so . um marketing : but i have the uh user interface : well , i have your powerpoint presentation , i can get some inf information out of that . marketing : yeah , but i here i have the the s the homepage of uh our internet , user interface : let 's see . project manager : yeah , the oh , they inc uh marketing : and here is my project manager : they include the new one . or just for you . user interface : oh , where would we marketing : here is my marketing report , project manager : oh marketing : maybe you ca you can look at uh that project manager : no , i did n't have that . marketing : and user interface : where would we want the uh teletext button ? marketing : ah yeah . user interface : because we decided that it 's n not that important . project manager : all it tells just let 's make make a new marketing : and one user interface : do we put it somewhere over here ? project manager : tick the new one . um other side . yeah , let 's increase it a little because marketing : and uh wha what people want , i 've uh user interface : or maybe this is something for the next meeting , i can draw out some ideas . project manager : yeah , draw us up some some designs of of possible marketing : i have another thing uh project manager : just keep in mind that the important buttons should be on top and either big , user interface : yeah . project manager : so the more less important user interface : well , we have decided more or less the basic structure . project manager : more or less . user interface : i can put the other buttons in project manager : just play a little with this , put l shift a little up or down and we 'll see what looks best . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : what uh what did you wan na say ? project manager : or just po post your designs from time to time on the product share . marketing : yeah . um user interface : yeah . marketing : uh what i al already said is the the uh the remote controls are always lost , user interface : maybe another idea uh . marketing : but it it 's also for people , they want to learn it fast , industrial designer : mm . mm . marketing : not uh they want to project manager : yeah , so we do n't want we want very little buttons , just the buttons you use a lot . marketing : it 's yeah , it 's easy to learn user interface : yes , but it should cover all the functions , marketing : wi and uh user interface : so possibly , just an idea that popped in project manager : what we had function that what people do , marketing : um project manager : so . people change channels , people they change the volume and they they change channel , they turn tv off and on , for example . that 's the basic fu that 's what you do i 'm not sure who present that again , but those are the basic function that people use it for , so those should be very well represented . user interface : yeah , but we could go a step further , marketing : and the if user interface : because some tvs have the uh possibility to adjust brightness , that kind of menus . project manager : that 's true , but that 's what we stick under the menu button . everything is you say in every tv that 's configured under the menu . user interface : yes , but it because we 're making industrial designer : but that 's the question , is it ? marketing : um industrial designer : because it needs to be configured in the television under the menu . project manager : yeah , but industrial designer : if it is n't , then we can not reach it . user interface : we need to adjust to the technology . project manager : but i think most modern tvs have it in their menu . industrial designer : i think so too . i think so too . user interface : true . industrial designer : uh is n't there a possibility to do research on that , so we know that for sure ? if you rule out functions , then uh and that gets known , then people are not gon na buy it . user interface : no , i thi industrial designer : then the consumer bond or something says uh you can not do this and that with it . that 's a bad bad com commercial marketing : if um project manager : uh we 'll we 'll see what we can come up with . industrial designer : for okay . marketing : another thing i want to say is that uh we are looking at the market for the age uh younger than forty . project manager : under forty . yeah ? industrial designer : that 's true . marketing : um on my report , i did n't uh ish i did n't show it in my uh presentation , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : because my computer crashed . project manager : yeah yeah . marketing : um they want to pay for an lcd screen and speech recognition . industrial designer : hmm . hmm . project manager : the want to pay for industrial designer : did they really said it like that ? those two things . marketing : i yeah . yeah , project manager : uh shall we ? industrial designer : do they realise how much that costs ? marketing : and industrial designer : that 's almost undoable . marketing : yeah . project manager : younger , age sixteen and forty five . user interface : oh , we 're not going to be able to sell it for twenty-five then , with an lcd screen . marketing : uh but project manager : that 's all here , here it says industrial designer : no , that 's that 's . even if i if we have this lost unit , then we can not do it for that price . project manager : yeah , age sixteen forty fi interest in main features more critical . marketing : if if they project manager : okay , so we 're not focusing on this . um all the interest in features , not really the l_c_ oh here . would you pay for uh speech recognition in a remote control . hmm , okay ? industrial designer : yeah , that 's true . user interface : marketing : we can project manager : speech recognition is quite marketing : we can look at the possibilities for an uh lcd and uh project manager : yeah , just look at the possibilities then , marketing : i dunno . project manager : because if marketing : yeah . project manager : apparently it 's what people want , it 's supposed to be a luxurious remote , marketing : how much it will cost and project manager : maybe it 's not even that expensive . or find a compromise , maybe just a black and white or for some extra information on it , on your programmes . industrial designer : uh i marketing : um user interface : i doubt it , but industrial designer : but i really need finance information . project manager : me too . i mean we all do . marketing : it will come uh industrial designer : we all do . project manager : right . i think it 's something we should put into consideration . apparently it 's what people want , so . we should see if what it costs , if it 's possible . industrial designer : mm . uh . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . yeah , we should do a little thing about design , because it looks boring really to me . even if you put it even if you put a different cover on it , it looks still looks boring , marketing : different colours maybe . industrial designer : hmm . and the design , it should differ . marketing : but all industrial designer : this is philips , huh ? project manager : i have no clue . industrial designer : philips has this . project manager : i just drew something what which would fit into your hand easily . user interface : well , i had basically industrial designer : okay . hmm . uh . user interface : something like this . to make it kind of futuristic . industrial designer : mm . oh , i realise if we make it small , then it needs to be a little thicker , project manager : i think it 's a very industrial designer : because i need to put all the electronics in it . project manager : sorry ? industrial designer : if we make it s uh smaller , uh less wide , then we need to m make it a little thicker , project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : because i have to put all the electronics in it . project manager : okay . mm-hmm . yeah , but you have to j just keep in mind it should n't be too heavy . marketing : okay . project manager : i mean we can stick it in in there , i think . huh even if in the worst case we can even user interface : what kind of project manager : could you give me the pen back ? user interface : yeah , sure . project manager : so let 's say that people would want an lcd thing . let 's take take the basic design again , what we oh , crap uh came up with . i 'll just make it a little bigger now . so a transmitter here . anyway . we could let 's say we have an lcd screen , people want an lcd screen . so then we should probably put it here . marketing : project manager : it does n't have to be really big , but just just have to be has to be there . think it 's a good place , people do n't marketing : if you 're reading from top to bottom , i think it 's better to put it uh at the top . project manager : no ? it 's not that uh it 's not the most important function , industrial designer : me too . marketing : it 's j project manager : it 's just an extra thing , it just you press the buttons on top , marketing : uh . but i if you if you are going to uh put the lcd on it , i think it 's very important to use it , industrial designer : but . project manager : because your finger is on top . marketing : uh because it 's use it uh project manager : how can you use an lcd screen ? marketing : but nee the function of it . so you can use it maximum , because uh it 's a lot it costs a lot . project manager : yeah , but why marketing : so project manager : i i 'm not sure . user interface : now it 's pretty much tucked away in your hand . project manager : uh if you t if you press a button , you can see it , industrial designer : hmm . no . project manager : ri i 'm not sure wha i 'm trying to imagine myself what it would look like . user interface : i 'm industrial designer : m i personally would prefer it on the top . project manager : you would prefer it n okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : so we have three people saying it should be on top . okay , but then you would would s have to stack away your buttons somewhere else . industrial designer : but it hmm . project manager : anyways . marketing : it 's expensive to build it , project manager : uh this looks a little user interface : i 'm still not convinced of the marketing : you must use the maximum of it . project manager : about the lcds thing . user interface : yeah . project manager : well if it if it 's if it 's possible wi if it 's not too expensive , we should include it , industrial designer : they want it uh . project manager : because it 's it 's cool . industrial designer : we should just try to make that if it 's possible . if it is possible we should really do it , but we need that information . marketing : huh . uh . but uh industrial designer : also keep in mind again , the lcd screen is very flat , but it needs transistors , resistors , i do n't know what more and that needs space . so i have to look if that 's possible . marketing : yeah , i know uh . user interface : so basically industrial designer : but if we user interface : can i project manager : uh we have green now uh user interface : what we have to decide now is uh what goes on top . do we put the volume control and the channel control here , or do we put it on he would we like to press it in the middle ? project manager : or maybe we should m we could uh draw draw something a bit that has it on on on the bottom . marketing : in middle of it . in the middle . project manager : maybe in a circle for example , like we like in this example . i think this is not good , but for we could make circular buttons for example . for up and down , ma make it a circle on it , user interface : yes , but we do agree that we keep this at the centre , project manager : because it marketing : yeah . user interface : because it 's basically the most important function . project manager : i think the channel button should be in the centre . marketing : it 's the most import yeah . project manager : channel button should be st stick together , for example here in this section . because it 's uh user interface : well , that would make them quite small . project manager : we 're not sure about the size anyway , user interface : so maybe you 'd put them here . project manager : just a general design . you can make it as big as you want . for example if you take uh user interface : yes , but a big remote control probably not something which people would like . project manager : let 's see . for example just industrial designer : if we have a a space issue , we can also lose one battery . it is rechargeable , so we can stick with one instead of two . project manager : yeah . marketing : . project manager : i do n't think if we if we even use an lcd screen , we need to , definitely . industrial designer : that might be an option . yeah , but if we need two batteries and an lcd screen , that means a lot of space that we need . project manager : yeah , but we have to see what the si what the size is . industrial designer : but it has to be a little bit heavier . project manager : the lcd does n't have to nee does n't need to be very big . industrial designer : okay . marketing : industrial designer : no , but the things behind it . space . project manager : mm let 's see . industrial designer : like a process uh . marketing : finish meeting now . project manager : finish meeting now . marketing : it 's on your computer . project manager : okay , we will . so either user interface : so would we like this or would we like the project manager : we either we have to decide what what people want . industrial designer : i like this one more . project manager : either this one , this this could be the luxurious one . so we have channel buttons here . i 'm just drawing something uh . uh i think this would this would look cool . you could have it for example small buttons here for some extra functions , so if your basic function 's here , we should like we decided before , programmes up and down , and volume here . user interface : let 's see what we have here . marketing : or and uh what about speech recognition uh project manager : well you can just no , i 'm not sure if we can do that , marketing : yeah , yeah , project manager : but we could put a microphone in here for example . marketing : but or or an lcd or an uh speech . i think it 's lcd is better now . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> the chair ( hon . anthony rota ( nipissingtimiskaming , lib . ) ) : i call this meeting to order . welcome to the 23rd meeting of the house of commons special committee on the covid-19 pandemic . a reminder to all members that in order to avoid issues with sound , members participating in person should not also be connected to the video conference . for those of you who are joining via video conference , i will remind you that when speaking you should be on the same channel as the language you are speaking , and please use your headsets . as usual , please direct your remarks through the chair . as i understand , there are no ministerial announcements today . we will now proceed to presenting petitions . i remind members that any petition presented during a meeting of this special committee must have already been certified by the clerk of petitions . for members participating in person , i ask that they please come and drop their signed certificates off at the table once the petition is presented . i would ask members to be very brief and concise , and to summarize the exact content of the petition . we will continue . the first person presenting a petition today is ms. may . ms. elizabeth may ( saanichgulf islands , gp ) : thank you , mr . chair . i present two petitions this morning . the residents of saanichgulf islands are calling on the government to simplify the process for protection of marine protected areas . it 's a multi-layered communication process . the marine protected area first proposed in the 1970s for the southern strait of georgia , now called the salish sea , has been awaiting designation for so long that it was originally endorsed by jacques cousteau . that gives us a sense for why petitioners are calling for a simplified and more rapid process . the second petition is from petitioners who are very concerned about our obligations under the united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and our commitments under the truth and reconciliation commission calls to action . they specifically reference the rcmp violation of undrip in its actions on wet'suwet'en territory and ask the government to commit to actually living the principles embodied in undrip . the chair : we will now go to mr. hardie . mr. ken hardie ( fleetwoodport kells , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . i am presenting a petition on behalf of the one in a million canadians who suffer severe and adverse effects from vaccinations . guillainbarre syndrome is very debilitating , and this petition seeks the setting up of a no-fault accident or compensation system to help offset the loss of work , the loss of wages and the loss of quality of life that many of these people suffer . i 'm pleased to present this petition pursuant to standing order 36 . the chair : mr.trudel , you have the floor . mr. denis trudel ( longueuilsaint-hubert , bq ) : mr.chair , culture is the soul of a people . over the past 20years or so , culture , especially music , has never been as accessible as it is now . paradoxically , creators ' incomes have never been so low . the advent of digital technology has completely overturned the system for distributing the wealth generated by creators for the benefit of various web stakeholders , many of whom are billionaires . this petition addresses these problems and proposes realistic solutions . the first is to set a minimum royalty model for streaming platforms for artists . the second is to update the existing private copying system . the third is for internet and cell phone providers who sell their services as direct access to culture to share their profits with artists . the fourth is that the gafams have to pay taxes on their services . six thousand people have already signed the first version of this petition , launched last month by musician jordanofficer and supported by singer barbarasecours . as an artist , i am proud to present this petition today because the issues it raises are fundamental to the survival of quebec culture . the chair : we 'll now continue with mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis ( sherwood parkfort saskatchewan , cpc ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . i have four petitions to present today . i will be as brief as you suggested , although i will observe that if some members are going on longer during petitions than they normally do , it might be because the government has taken away so many of the tools that opposition members normally have for raising important issues in the house . the first petition deals with the issue of euthanasia and long-term care . the petitioners are concerned that instead of focusing on improving medically assisted life , something that we know is a major issue in light of recent revelations , the government has put so much time and legislative energy into efforts to continually further expand euthanasia in canada and remove vital safeguards . the second petition speaks to the ongoing conversations happening in canada around systemic discrimination and systemic racism . i think we do need to reflect on systemic discrimination . this petition deals specifically with bill 21 in quebec and raises concerns . the reality of the way that bill applies is that people from certain backgrounds who wish to practise their faith are not able to fully participate in canadian society if they are employed in the public service . this petition asks the government to provide a response on that issue , something it has n't done in response to past petitions on this . the third petition deals with the issue of firearms . the petitioners want to see the government take a strong response in dealing with illegal guns and gun smuggling . the petition notes that the vast majority of firearms-related crimes in canada involves illegal guns . at the same time , the petitioners are concerned that the government has the wrong focusthat is , harassing law-abiding firearms ownerswithout putting in place substantial measures to deal with illegal guns . the petitioners want to see the reversal of the order in council from may 1 and strong measures to deal with illegal firearms . the fourth and final petition deals with bill s-204 , a bill that would make it a criminal offence for a canadian to go abroad and receive an organ from a person who has not consented to giving that organ . it would also create a mechanism by which someone could be deemed inadmissible to canada if they were involved in organ harvesting and trafficking . the petitioners are supportive of bill s-204 and of similar bills in previous parliaments and would like to see us pass that bill as soon as possible . the chair : presenting petitions , mr. lamoureux . mr. kevin lamoureux ( winnipeg north , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . it is with pleasure that i table another petition by the residents of winnipeg north . these residents have signed a petition asking the government of canada , and in fact all members of parliament , to put a high priority on assisting our poorest seniors . the increases to the gis by $ 200 , and $ 300 to the oas , have been well received . they just want to highlight how important it is to support our seniors , in particular the poorest of our seniors . the chair : for members present in the chamber , a reminder that they are asked to bring their petitions to the table . we 'll now proceed to statements by members . we 'll go to ms. atwin for the first one . mrs. jenica atwin ( fredericton , gp ) : thank you , mr . chair . june 21 is national indigenous peoples day , a day of acknowledgement and a day of celebration of the beautiful diversity of indigenous peoples across turtle island . i wish to recognize the leadership of chief shelley sabattis of the welamukotuk first nation in oromocto , new brunswick . each year she and her council , volunteers and staff go above and beyond to show appreciation for their members and to demonstrate pride and culture while promoting well-being . we gather in an event where all are welcome to take part , from traditional hand drum-making with elders to moose meat and tacos . this year we will celebrate a bit differently , but we will still stay connected , virtually and in spirit , to the vast network of indigenous peoples and allies . we need each other now more than ever . may we come together in song and stories and in solidarity . we will remember those who are not among us . i hope all of canada will join us in observing national indigenous peoples day . mawiyapasuwok : let us come together . nit liech . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. beech . mr. terry beech ( burnaby northseymour , lib . ) : mr . chair , covid-19 is an unprecedented challenge for all communities across canada , but as we do our part to flatten the curve , i often think about those who suit up every morning to serve on the front lines of our health care system . my mother is a home care worker and my sister is a nurse . even before the crisis , they would often share the hardships they faced on a day-to-day basis . it 's a tough job at the best of times . in a pandemic , these jobs are life-threatening . i think we can all agree that these workers deserve more than our good wishes . they deserve a raise . that is why we have worked with the provinces to implement pandemic pay . in british columbia more than 250,000 front-line workers are eligible for this program . that works out to a pay increase of about $ 4 an hour . it 's a small show of our appreciation for their difficult and priceless contribution to our country . share this message and say thanks to our front-line workers , participate in the 7 p.m. cheer , and order a pizza for your local nurses . it 's the least we can do . the chair : we 'll now go on to mr. shipley . mr. doug shipley ( barriespringwateroro-medonte , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . we 've been living in difficult times . slowly , we are getting back to some resemblance of normalcy , although unfortunately not soon enough for some of our great summer festivals . it will not be normal in barriespringwateroro-medonte this summer without the iconic boots and hearts weekend music festival , kempenfest , oro world 's fair , the elmvale fall fair , or the midhurst autumnfest . canada day celebrations have been cancelled , but we can still celebrate the great nation we call home . because of the lack of canada day celebrations , i 've created happy canada day lawn signs that are available through my constituency office , free to all residents of barriespringwateroro-medonte . i 'm also hosting a drive-through party on canada day at the royal canadian legion on st. vincent street in barrie . all are welcome to attend . there will be cupcakes for all . please drop by the legion between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. , and we can celebrate canada day safely together . thank you and have a great summer . the chair : now we 'll go on to ms. young . ms. kate young ( london west , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . among the countless ordinary canadians who have stepped up to do extraordinary work during covid-19 , i wish to draw attention to our teachers . teachers have always had a special place in my heart . my father was a teacher , and my daughter-in-law , kelly webb , is one now . i 'm certain that my colleagues can all easily remember a teacher in their past who played an important role in helping them achieve their potential . i remember my grade 12 english teacher , vince weaver , at westminster secondary school in london . he made me realize that i could do so much more than i believed . across the country , as schools closed , teachers did not stop their work . some took their classes online . others found innovative ways to continue engaging with their students . this is not the school year anyone imagined , and what the next one will look like is unclear , but our teachers in london west and across canada have shown that no matter what , they will be there to help our next generation shine . the chair : before proceeding to the next presenter , i just want to remind the honourable members in the chamber that i realize that the six-foot limit makes it harder to whisper to each other , but we 're hearing a bit of rumble , so i just want you to try to whisper at your best . mr.bergeron , you have the floor . mr. stphane bergeron ( montarville , bq ) : mr.chair , on july1st , we will be celebrating one of the most important events for the riding of montarville : the 175thanniversary of the city of saint-bruno-de-montarville . the theme proud of our traditions will be the focus of this celebration for the people of montarville . this is a good illustration of the rich history of this municipality nestled in the western foothills of mont-saint-bruno . the seigneury of montarville was granted in1710 to the illustrious former governor of trois-rivires , pierreboucher . the parish of saint-bruno , which took root there and in which a village grew , became a municipal corporation in1845 . to this day , it is one of the most prosperous localities , with a strong sense of belonging , a very dynamic community life and jealously preserved natural environments . a whole program had been drawn up for the celebration , but the current health crisis has taken over some of the planned activities , which has in no way diminished the pride and festive spirit of the people of montarville . on july1st , we will have a good reason to be proud , in spite of everything . happy 175thanniversary to saint-bruno-de-montarville . the chair : we 'll now continue with mr. maloney . mr. james maloney ( etobicokelakeshore , lib . ) : mr . chair , thank you for allowing me to take a moment to highlight an initiative that i started early on during the covid-19 pandemic . the heroes of etobicokelakeshore is an opportunity for citizens in my riding to recognize the contributions of those in their community who make life a bit easier . i 'm pleased with the number of nominations i received that honour everyone from front-line workers to businesses that are innovating in these difficult times to volunteers who are finding new ways to reach out . i think of daniel lauzon who set up food for now , a mobile service that helps take care of the homeless . i think of toni varone , who helped his business clients by forgiving their rents , or young lucas , who wanted to thank his teachers . i 've been moved and inspired by the countless stories of generosity , strength , resiliency , kindness , incredible character and creativity . i want to thank all the heroes , as well as the people who nominated them . keep them coming . stay safe , everyone , and i wish you happy canada day early . the chair : we 'll now move on to ms. wong . hon . alice wong ( richmond centre , cpc ) : mr . chair , it gives me great pleasure to thank a local richmond-based charity , the social diversity for children foundation , sdc , for its hard work both in raising funds for the purchase of personal protective equipment and in distributing this ppe to long-term care facilities and individual seniors ' homes in the lower mainland of b.c . the covid-19 relief fund is supported by a dozen other non-profits , businesses and community groups . over the past two months , sdc has been to 32 seniors homes and senior-related organizations . in total , it has delivered masks to 7,000 care workers , staff and seniors . it is amazing to have witnessed how the younger generation have gotten involved in caring for the elderly at this very challenging time . the chair : we 'll now go to ms. damoff . ms. pam damoff ( oakville northburlington , lib . ) : mr . chair , june is als awareness month , and 79 years after lou gehrig died from als little has changed . there 's still no cure , and those with als typically die within five years of diagnosis . on june 21 , canadians will gather virtually to raise funds for als canada in the walk to end als . in halton , normally we meet each year at bronte creek provincial park on the may long weekend to raise funds for als canada . this year i will virtually join tim 's titans , a team formed to honour tim robertson , my friend who died in 2016 after living with als for 13 years . i have a t-shirt , with a picture of lou gehrig , that says , great player ... lousy disease and tim 's titans ... great team ! als ... still a lousy disease . join me on june 21 for the virtual walk to end als to raise funds to support patients and their families and for als research . the chair : we 'll now continue with ms. khera . ms. kamal khera ( brampton west , lib . ) : mr . chair , on saturday our community stood and marched in solidarity against anti-black racism . the peaceful protests that we 're seeing across the country and around the world were not triggered by an isolated incident . they are fuelled by decades of ineffective action against something that is so insidious and deeply entrenched in our history , systems and institutions . for us , that is the racial inequality faced by canada 's indigenous and black communities . anti-black racism is real . it exists right here in canada , in our communities , including in brampton . it exists when racialized students at mccrimmon middle school are called mccriminals . it exists when a shocking report exposes the peel district school board 's failure to work fairly with the black community . it exists when d'andre campbell , who was fighting mental illness , loses his life at the hands of the police . it is clear that we need reform . we need to dismantle the systems that allow this privilege and oppression to take form , and address the unconscious bias plaguing our institutions . we 'll need to be bold , and the time to do that is now . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. lloyd . mr. dane lloyd ( sturgeon riverparkland , cpc ) : mr . chair , a few months ago i rose in the house on the eve of our closure due to covid-19 . i told canadians we must not give in to fear , that we would carry on and get through this crisis stronger than ever . today , in this city and across canada , canadians are enjoying a beer on their favourite patios . businesses are reopening , jobs are returning and our lives are starting to feel a bit normal again . canadians pulled together , and because of that we did not see the devastating death toll that many had predicted . life may be returning to normal , but unfortunately , here in this chamber of democracy , the people 's voices continue to be shut down . there is no good reason for parliament to be suspended today . in the words of my grandfather , it 's time for the liberals to get with the program and bring back the house . the chair : we will now proceed with ms. jones . ms. yvonne jones ( labrador , lib . ) : mr . chair , from in-person learning to virtual classrooms , covid-19 has drastically changed the lives of students across the country , especially those in post-secondary education who are worried about covering costs like tuition or rent this coming fall . our government recognized that students should not have to worry or put their futures on pause during this difficult time . that 's why last month the federal government introduced the canada emergency student benefit . if you 're a high school student headed to a post-secondary school , or a current post-secondary student or a recent graduate , you can receive the canada emergency student benefit every four weeks and have the financial support that you need to save for school . we also doubled canada student grants and loans , enhanced the student loan program , increased supports for indigenous post-secondary education and introduced the canada student service grant for those who wish to pursue it . our government is here to help all students get the support they need to pursue their future goals successfully . i wish them all the very best , and i wish all of you , my colleagues and those across canada , a very happy national indigenous peoples day , which is coming up on june 21 . the chair : i want to remind the honourable members to keep to their 60 seconds so that we do n't go over the time . i 'm sure it would be a lot easier for everyone if we stuck to that limit . we will now go to mr. aitchison . mr. scott aitchison ( parry soundmuskoka , cpc ) : mr . chair , i rise today to once again implore the government to do something about the horrible lack of access to and crazy cost of rural internet service . right now , too many areas of my riding have no access to rural internet service at all , and those who can get service are paying through the nose . i 've even heard constituents say that during this pandemic , they are having to choose between feeding their kids and educating them . over the last few weeks , conservatives have been consulting with rural canadians , and the results are in . my constituents are tired of fancy political promises . they are frustrated beyond belief by the new challenges created by this pandemic . they are absolutely fed up with having their pleas ignored . all we want is affordable and reliable internet service . is that too much to ask of the government ? the chair : we 'll now go to mr. macgregor . mr. alistair macgregor ( cowichanmalahatlangford , ndp ) : mr . chair , these last few months have been incredibly challenging for the residents of cowichanmalahatlangford , who have been forced to deal with the economic and social consequences of covid-19 . the pandemic has laid bare the inadequacies of our social safety net , the weakness in our supply chains and the dependence of our society on essential workers , who often work long hours for low wages , putting themselves and their families at risk . we 've also been forced to confront the systemic inequality , poverty and racism that continue to hold so many people back from achieving their full potential . i will not dishonour the sacrifice that so many have made during this time by allowing us to go back to the status quo that got us here in the first place . i will not apologize for demanding that the most vulnerable in our society get the supports and opportunities they need to live with dignity , and i will not relent from pushing my political colleagues to summon the courage necessary to implement policies that lead to environmental , economic and social justice . the chair : i now give the floor to mr.blaney . hon . steven blaney ( bellechasseles etcheminslvis , cpc ) : mr.chair , here is a beautiful story , the story of a woman from bellechasse , a courageous young mother from saint-malachie , marie-christinegoupil . with three children , including the eldest daughter with a disability , and realizing that her daughter with a disability had special clothing needs , she decided to go into business to meet the needs of other parents who , like her , were facing their child 's clothing challenges . last week , she presented her handy clothing collection on the show dans l'il du dragon . it was a very emotional moment for the audience and the dragons . they were so touched that they decided to give her the amount she wanted without diluting her shares . the video of her presentation has already been viewed over 1million times on social networks . marie-christinegoupil has discovered a passion for entrepreneurship and has moved and inspired many people with her passionate and courageous attitude . congratulations , ms.goupil , your example makes us proud . the chair : mr.blanchet , you have the floor . mr. yves-franois blanchet ( beloeilchambly , bq ) : thank you , mr.chair . i lend my voice to the chief of the assembly of first nations of quebec-labrador , ghislainpicard , whose message is as follows : there have been no fewer than 14reports and conclusions of commissions of inquiry since1967 highlighting major problems in relations between law enforcement agencies and indigenous people . each time , the conclusions have been overwhelming and highlight a disturbing reality . the justice system has failed indigenous people . are you going to respond , as you too often do , by moving on to the next one , or are you going to do what we expect you to do , which is to recognize that the justice system discriminates against indigenous people and that we have no less right to security than the rest of the population ? in three months , police interventions have claimed more victims among our members than the pandemic . but it is not enough to simply take a knee and denounce racism . it 's about standing up and taking action . those are the words of ghislainpicard . the chair : we 'll now continue with ms . harder . ms. rachael harder ( lethbridge , cpc ) : over the last few months , canada 's democracy has been disregarded and an autocracy has been resurrected in its place . by refusing to hold regular parliamentary sittings , mr. trudeau is sending a strong message to the canadian public that he alone is the one who matters . in 2014 , he professed that canadians want their members of parliament to be effective voices for their communities in ottawa , and not merely mouthpieces for an all-too-powerful prime minister . as it stands , however , he has shut down parliament . effectively , he has stripped us , the opposition , of our privileges and our powers . sadly , mr. trudeau has become the all-too-powerful prime minister that he once warned against . a government that does not allow for effective opposition is not functioning in the best interest of canadians ; it is operating in the best interest of itself and , even more so , the interest of the prime minister . canadians deserve to flourish in a democracy , not merely survive under the autocracy that this prime minister has created . the chair : we 'll now go on to ms. zahid . mrs. salma zahid ( scarborough centre , lib . ) : thank you , mr . chair . mr . chair , i would like to recognize the work of agincourt community services association and its tireless executive director , lee soda , who have been serving our community during the covid-19 pandemic . under more pressure than ever , their staff and volunteers continue to serve a community whose need was great even before the crisis . their food bank helps over 4,000 people weekly . they have opened outdoor washrooms and hand-washing stations for vulnerable communities and are delivering groceries and other essentials to vulnerable seniors . acsa is a bridge between those who can help and those who need help , and they are just one example of how our community has come together to meet this challenge . there are restaurants and businesses donating meals to front-line workers , residents answering the call to stock the food bank shelves and neighbours looking in on the vulnerable and isolated . i am so proud of our community 's spirit . scarborough is strong . the chair : we 'll now proceed to the questioning of ministers . please note that we will suspend the proceedings twice in order to allow employees who provide support for the sitting to replace each other safely . the first question goes to the leader of the opposition , mr. scheer . hon . andrew scheer ( leader of the opposition ) : mr . chair , for months conservatives have been pointing out flaws in liberal government programs that are preventing canadians from getting the help they need . the prime minister has refused to make these very technical changes to get more help to canadians who need it . for example , on the wage subsidy , more than two-thirds of the money allocated for that program has lapsed because businesses do n't qualify . i have a simple question . will the prime minister change the program to allow companies who have made acquisitions to access the wage subsidy to keep more people working ? right hon . justin trudeau ( papineau , lib . ) : mr . chair , from the very beginning we knew that as we rolled out measures , we would need to improve them and tweak them , and that 's exactly what we 've been doing over the past three months . we needed to make measures happen quickly for canadians , and we did that . but we continued to improve them , to make additions and amendments so that more people could get the help they needed , including with the proposed legislation last week that expanded the reach of the wage subsidy to more businesses . unfortunately , the conservatives did n't even want us to debate that particular piece of legislation . hon . andrew scheer : actually , mr . chair , it was the liberals who said no to the motion to allow this parliament to sit to debate that motion , and even in that legislation they refused to allow businesses who have made acquisitions to access the program . now , when we look at the rent relief program , it is so difficult to apply for it that many landlords are refusing to bother , leaving even more small businesses to fall through the cracks . in fact , of the $ 3 billion allocated to the rent relief program , only $ 39 million has been paid out . that 's less than 2 % . now , the prime minister is still using talking points from april . it 's now june and he has refused to fix these programs and has successfully talked out the calendar on the days that the house of commons could meet to discuss these programs . when will he make these changes to get more help to canadians who need it ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , throughout this pandemic , we have constantly been updating and expanding our various programs . we recognize , in conversations with the premiers , how important it is to make sure that we 're working together , the provinces and the federal government , on issues like rent subsidies where commercial rent is indeed a provincial jurisdiction . many provinces have moved forward with the eviction bans that are necessary to go along with this , and we 'll continue to work with provinces to make sure that we 're getting canadians the help they need . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , canadians can not wait . he has run down the clock on parliamentary sittings and he still refuses to make these changes to get more help to canadians . today , we learned that telus has installed huawei technology in downtown ottawa . there are over 80 sites across the national capital region with huawei technology installed . some of these sites are very near sensitive government institutions , like government departments , the national research council , rcmp headquarters and the bank of canada . how long has the prime minister known that huawei technology has been installed in the ottawa area ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , first off , on the issue of parliament , it has been meeting four times a week over the past many weeks , and members of the opposition have been able to continue to ask questions on covid-19 and a broad range of subjects . moreover , every two weeks the finance department puts forward at the finance committee the full transparent measures that we 've taken , so that parliamentarians can study them . we are continuing to work in this crisis . at the same time mr. ziad aboultaif ( edmonton manning , cpc ) : answer the question . the chair : i 'm sorry ? right hon . justin trudeau : in regard to huawei technology there are strict rules for companies to follow and we assume they will all follow those . the chair : we 'll pause for a second and stop the clock . i want to remind the honourable members who are joining us virtually that heckling really does disrupt the whole session . your face does come up and we do see who it is , so i just want to make sure that you 're aware of that . now we 'll go back to mr. scheer . we have a minute and 10 seconds left . hon . andrew scheer : mr . chair , the prime minister is bragging about accountability and transparency . will he table an economic update before the house rises ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , throughout this unprecedented pandemic , we have been open and transparent about all of the measures we 've put forward . we 've updated the finance committee the chair : we 'll go back to mr. scheer . hon . andrew scheer : that 's a long way of saying no , mr . chair . mr . chair , the prime minister has pursued a policy of appeasement in pursuit of a personal vanity product at the un . in the process , he 's cozied up to dictators and human rights violators . he 's abandoned israel and committed funding to unrwa , an organization whose schools have been used as storage facilities for hamas rockets against israeli civilians , and whose facilities have served as breeding grounds for racism and anti-semitism . he has apologized for the iranian regime when it shot down a plane full of canadian citizens , and he refuses to list the islamic revolutionary guard corps as a terrorist entity . what 's the point of having a seat at the table if you have to sell out canadian principles to get there ? the chair : the right honourable prime minister . right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , we see that the conservatives have kept with the harper approach to international diplomacy . the failed presence of canada on the world stage was an embarrassment for many canadians for many years . that 's why , when we took office five years ago , we demonstrated the kind of leadership on values that canadians expected . we will continue to work around the world to defend multilateralism . the chair : we have a point of order . ms. may . ms. elizabeth may : this being a committee , we can have a point of order during what would have been question period . i am not sitting that far away from the prime minister , and i 'm sorry , but andrew scheer used to be the speaker of the house and should show better decorum . the chair : we have a point of order from mr. genuis . mr. garnett genuis : mr . chair , on the same point of order , it is disgusting for the leader of the green party to use decorum as an excuse to interrupt the leader of the opposition in the middle of critical lines of questioning . the leader of the green party knows the rules of the house and should n't be abusing them to advance a partisan agenda . the chair : we 're getting into debate . i do want to point out that the time had run out . we 're now moving on to the next line of questions . on a point of order , mr. scheer . hon . andrew scheer : i appreciate the honourable leader of the green party , elizabeth may , for that reminder . when i was speaker i always appreciated her help and advice about how to improve decorum in here . i just want to say to the member , and to all members , that the reason that i can not control myself is that the prime minister used the word embarrassment in answering a foreign affairs question , and it just made me think of the india trip . the chair : i believe we 're getting into debate and arguments . mr.blanchet , you have the floor . mr. yves-franois blanchet : mr.chair , while the greens and the conservatives are saying that they 'll be waiting outside after the meeting , i will ask a question . the prime minister has extended the canada emergency response benefit , and that 's good news , but it 's not enough . last week in the house , the government said it was urgent to fight fraud . for us , it was also urgent to adjust the cerb to the needs of the tourism , arts and agriculture sectors . farmers are going to be seriously under-resourced . so what happened to the urgency of reforming the cerb ? why is the government refusing to talk to the opposition parties ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , i am very pleased to hear the hon . member finally align himself with the positions of the liberal party . unfortunately , the bloc is a week late . it should have let us debate these concerns in the house last week . mr. yves-franois blanchet : it seems to me that the word alignment here is a fantasy . we have unequivocally proposed to extend the debate to reach an agreement , which brings me to my second question . last week , the issue of assistance to people with disabilities was also a pressing concern , and it 's even more so a week later . the bloc proposed to extend the discussions and split the government 's bill in two to help people with disabilities . why is the government refusing this assistance to people with disabilities , when it could have been debated with the opposition in a civilized and proper way in a parliament in which it has a minority ? right hon . justin trudeau : that was exactly what we wanted , but unanimous consent of the chamber was required to debate this matter , and the conservative party of canada voted against it . unfortunately , we are going to have to find a different way to help people with disabilities . mr. yves-franois blanchet : if the idea is so good and wonderful , why not start over and open the dialogue now ? what 's stopping the prime minister from being a rallying point and inviting us to take to each other and resolve the problem , rather than saying that he is going to pack up his toys and go home ? the people with disabilities are the ones who will pay the price . where was the prime minister on october21,2019 ? he received a minority mandate from quebeckers and canadians . why is he behaving like something between a prime minister with a majority and a monarch by divine right ? right hon . justin trudeau : i 've heard the conservative party and the bloc qubcois throw their accusations around . they do n't point out that the house of commons did indeed give its consent to extend the mandate of the special committee on the covid-19 pandemic until the end of june . three parties agreed , which was the right thing to do in the context of this minority government . we 've been working with the other parties . however , as they did not get the results they wanted , they complained . unfortunately , they too are part of a minority parliament and must respect the voice of the majority of parliamentarians , just as we do . mr. yves-franois blanchet : i might have been tempted , but that 's unlikely to happen because the prime minister is n't me , he 's him . it 's therefore up to him to bring people together , open a dialogue and recall parliament . all we were asking for was the opportunity to talk for an hour or two . however , suddenly he does n't want to play anymore . it 's not working anymore , and there 's something a bit strange about that . in addition , the government wants to buy the right to interfere in provincial and quebec jurisdictions for $ 14billion . however , quebec and a number of provinces are refusing to allow it to interfere in their jurisdictions and are asking that this money be paid to them unconditionally . is the prime minister trying to take advantage of the crisis or is he trying to create a constitutional crisis ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , the safety of canadians is the responsibility of all levels of government . that 's why we have proposed a $ 14billion agreement to ensure that all canadians across the country experience a safe re-opening of the economy . this is a proposal that we are working on with the provinces because we know that there are needs across the country , including early childhood centres , screening and support for municipalities . the federal government wants to be there to help the provinces . the chair : we 'll now go to mr.singh . mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . indigenous leaders have expressed a lack of confidence in the rcmp commissioner 's ability to tackle full-scale systemic racism , but the prime minister has expressed his confidence in the commissioner . what 's that based on ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , over the past two years , commissioner lucki has made significant strides forward on an issue where there is still much more to do . we know that systemic racism exists in all of our institutions across this country the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : this is the same rcmp commissioner who just recently said that they could n't explain what systemic racism was . now the prime minister says that he has confidence , when indigenous leaders express their lack of confidence . why does the prime minister believe that the rcmp commissioner can tackle systemic racism in the rcmp ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , systemic racism is something that touches every corner of our country , every corner of our institutions . it requires people to understand and move forward in coordinated ways with partners . the commissioner is committed to doing that , alongside members of our government . we will do that together and work with indigenous communities and black the chair : mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , recent events have made it abundantly clear that to tackle the systemic racism at the level of the rcmp , we need a full-scale overhaul of the rcmp . is the prime minister committed to a full-scale overhaul of the rcmp to root out systemic racism ? right hon . justin trudeau : as i 've said many times , mr . chair , i am committed to addressing systemic racism in this country and taking significant , bold actions to reduce the amount of discrimination that indigenous peoples , that racialized canadians face on a daily basis . we have much work to do , but we will do it together . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , black lives matter has been calling for governments to defund the police . what it 's saying is that we need to be better at where we spend our money , investing in communities and not policing . will the prime minister commit to a review of the rcmp budget to allocate resources to community services and not to policing ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , over the past years we have been investing more directly and more money in community organizations , in the black community , and working with indigenous partners on the path to reconciliation . we have been investing in the kinds of community-based programs and solutions that are part of the solution . we know there is much more to do , and we will continue to look at all of our expenditures to make sure we 're doing the right things . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , over the past few years , while the prime minister has been in office , the rcmp budget has increased by 31 % . more money is going towards policing . in recent events we 've seen people who needed a health care response to a health care crisis been killed by the rcmp . does the prime minister believe that we need to be investing in a health care response instead of a police response for people who are faced with a crisis ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , the member opposite well knows that it 's not an either-or . we need to make sure that our systems across the board , from our police systems to our judicial systems , to our health care systems , to our community systems , are actually addressing the systemic discrimination issues that are embedded within them that is exactly what we are going to continue to do in the coming years . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , with regard to the cerb extension , can the prime minister guarantee that everyone who is receiving cerb payments now will continue to do so without any gaps throughout the summer ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , i am happy to highlight that many canadians who were on the cerb are now returning to work . many more who are on the cerb now will be returning to work in the coming weeks . we know that as the economy gets back to work , people will want to the chair : we will go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : can the prime minister assure people who need it that they will continue to receive the cerb over the summer , yes or no ? right hon . justin trudeau : we are very pleased to point out that we are going to extend the canada emergency response benefit for at least another eight weeks , because a lot of people are going to need it . even if they want to work , there are n't enough jobs for everyone . so we 'll be there for them , as we have been from the beginning . the chair : we 're going to pause and suspend proceedings just for a few moments to allow our support staff to substitute for one another in a healthy and safe way . we 'll now proceed with ms. mcleod . mrs. cathy mcleod ( kamloopsthompsoncariboo , cpc ) : mr . chair , it was really a surprise in the middle of a pandemic to see the prime minister at his first campaign stop last week in ottawa . certainly the game plan has become very transparent . he has a daily report show and he wants to sideline parliament , dominate the news cycle and keep everyone in the dark about the state of the economy . according to the parliamentary budget officer , there is no reason that he can not provide the fiscal update during the covid-19 pandemic , and the pbo has published a number of reports himself . why wo n't the prime minister provide a fiscal update so we can all understand the state of our economy , or is that just not part of his campaign playbook ? hon . mona fortier ( minister of middle class prosperity and associate minister of finance ) : thank you , mr . chair . canada 's economy is in a period of extraordinary uncertainty due to covid-19 . we 've been clear about that . we will continue to be open and transparent about the actions that we are taking to support families , businesses , workers , our health care system and our economy . this includes biweekly reports to parliament on the full cost and status of our economic measures . once it is possible to provide a clear economic projection , we will provide an update . we are in this together , and we are prepared to do whatever is necessary to support canadians . mrs. cathy mcleod : chair , canada 's economy was in trouble prior to the covid , with some of the worst numbers since 2009 . government revenues in march dropped by 7.2 % , and it 's shameful and , quite frankly , it 's outrageous that they refuse to provide parliament and canadians with an economic update . households during this challenging time know how much money is coming in and they know how much money is going out . the picture is not pretty , but they know what the picture is . can the finance minister at least reveal the projected revenue decline in quarters one and two ? hon . mona fortier : the canadian economy is going through a period of extraordinary uncertainty due to covid-19 . we 've known this for three months . we 've continued to be open and transparent about the measures we 've put in place for canadians , workers and businesses . in fact , we have reported biweekly to parliament on the total cost and status of our plan 's measures . as soon as it 's possible to provide clear economic projections , we will provide a comprehensive update to canadians the chair : we go back to ms. mcleod . mrs. cathy mcleod : other governments have managed to provide updates for their citizens and carry out their responsibilities , but of course this government has sidelined parliament with simply a question-but-no-answer period . let 's try something else . the forestry industry was in crisis even before the pandemic , with mills closing down and thousands of jobs lost . eight weeks ago , minister freeland said , i have had many discussions with leaders in our forestry sector and the provinces about what we can do to support the industry today . meanwhile , we 've had support going to the arts and we 've had support going to fisheries , just to name a few , but arguably for the industry that was having some of the most numerous challenges , it has been radio silence . that was eight weeks ago today . can the government at least commit to releasing an updated softwood lumber transition plan before we rise ? hon . seamus o'regan ( minister of natural resources ) : mr . chair , we remain committed , of course , to the forestry industry and seeing it through this pandemic and this very uncertain time . the expanding market opportunities program , for instance , has helped canada 's forestry sector diversify , create jobs and open new markets . we 've had new construction projects that are active today , using canadian wood in key markets like korea , japan , china and the united states . tomorrow this house will vote on our government 's investment of $ 20.97 million for this program . it 's part of our budget 2019 commitment to invest $ 251 million over three years , and i hope the opposition will support us in that . mrs. cathy mcleod : it was stated in a major newspaper this morning that this government is like a sexy sports carvroom , vroom , vroombut with a history of breakdowns and major repairs . i think that might describe what has been happening . for forestry , it has been eight weeks and there has been nothing . there is another area that deputy prime minister freeland did talk about . we were talking about the u.s. softwood lumber duties that are being held in the united states . it 's billions of dollars being held with the u.s. treasury . in april , she acknowledged that these duties are a real issue for the softwood lumber industry . what 's been done since that time ? hon . david lametti ( minister of justice and attorney general of canada ) : mr . chair , canada 's forestry industry supports good middle-class jobs in communities across our country . the sector is also an essential link in the medical equipment supply chain , and we thank them for all the work they 're doing . we 're aware of the immense pressures faced by this sector , especially at this time , and deputy prime minister freeland and others are taking that seriously and working through this issue . as our government has said repeatedly , we firmly believe that the u.s. duties on canadian softwood lumber are unfair and unwarranted , and we will pursue all means in order to the chair : before continuing , i want to remind honourable members who are at home to make sure that the boom on their headsets is down . it just makes a better pickup . we heard everything , but it was a little distant . that 's for everyone 's benefit . we 're now going to continue with mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell ( louis-saint-laurent , cpc ) : mr.chair , before i ask my question , i 'd like to pay tribute to the minister of justice , particularly to his versatility . today , he talked about forests . yesterday , the minister of justice talked about davie and indigenous affairs . really , this minister is very versatile . my question is directly for the minister of finance . i like mr.lametti very much , but i 'd like mr.morneau to answer my question . yesterday , in a senate parliamentary committee , the minister of finance half-opened the door to an economic update . based on what he said , it seems that , as we speak , a committee of the department of finance is working on an economic update . could mr.morneau tell canadians when he is going to table this economic update ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , as we know , the canadian economy is going through a period of extraordinary uncertainty . as soon as it 's possible to provide clear economic projections , we will provide a full update to canadians . right now , we can say that we have supported workers , businesses and canadians with the emergency measures we have put in place . we will continue to do so , because we need to be sure that canadians can get through this crisis . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , i thought it was too good to be true . the minister of finance is opening the door , and the minister of small business is closing it . we do n't know when the economic update will take place , yet all across canada , provinces are doing economic updates . could mr.morneau explain to canadians why he is unable to give one ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , since the beginning of the crisis , we have implemented the economic action plan to respond to covid-19 , and we 've provided immediate assistance to canadians , businesses and workers . over 2.5million jobs were protected by the canada emergency wage subsidy . in addition , 8.4million canadians the chair : we are returning to mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , next friday , the quebec minister of finance , ericgirard , will give an economic update . if ericgirard can give one for quebec , why ca n't billmorneau give one for canada ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , once again , we have been open and transparent from the outset . we have devoted our energy to support canadians , workers and businesses . we will continue to do so . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , i can not judge the quality of the work done by the provinces , but what i do know is that quebec , saskatchewan and newfoundland have also made efforts to support their residents economically . those provinces are able to table economic updates . yesterday , saskatchewan even tabled a budget . why is bill morneau unable to table an economic update for all canadians ? hon . mona fortier : let me repeat for my hon . colleague that we are going through extraordinarily uncertain times . we have continued to be open and transparent . we have reported biweekly to parliament on the total cost and status of the measures in our economic response plan . once again , as soon as clear economic projections can be provided , we will provide an update the chair : mr.deltell has the floor . mr. grard deltell : the minister talks about the total cost of the government 's economic expenditures . so i ask the question : so far , over the past three months , how much has the pandemic cost canadians ? hon . mona fortier : as i said earlier , it is important to note that we have put forward measures , including the wage subsidy , which have helped more than 2.5million the chair : mr.deltell has the floor . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , i have been trying for four minutes to get anything remotely resembling an answer , and i 'm getting absolutely nothing . i am not asking questions for myself ; i am asking questions for canadians . why are the government and the minister of finance , bill morneau , not able to table an economic update when some provinces are able to ? hon . mona fortier : once again , i would like to remind my hon . colleague that we have provided interest-free loans to businesses . more than 669,000loans have been approved . we have continued to support businesses and canadians during this time the chair : mr.deltell , you have time for a very brief question . mr. grard deltell : the only thing that distinguishes the provinces that table economic updates and the current government is political will . why does bill morneau not have the political will to tell canadians the truth ? hon . mona fortier : once again , we have been open and transparent . as soon as it is possible to provide clear economic projections , we will provide canadians with a full update . the chair : we will now continue with mr. saroya . mr. bob saroya ( markhamunionville , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . covid-19 has sparked and spurred anti-asian racism . these are not just racist comments online ; asian canadians have been attacked . what is the government doing to combat anti-asian racism ? hon . bardish chagger ( minister of diversity and inclusion and youth ) : mr . chair , since our government took office in 2015 , we have been making investments and working with communities . the difference between our government and the previous government is that we will actually consult with canadians , including black canadians , including asian canadians , to respond to the challenges , including with an anti-racism secretariat and an anti-racism strategy . it will take all of us . i appreciate the member 's question , so that we can also work together . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , one business owner i know in markham has operated for 20 years . now she 's looking at over $ 9,000 in rent due on june 24 . covid-19 has crippled her sales and she 's going to go out of business . her landlord has no interest in the canada emergency commercial rent assistance program . how can the government say this program is working ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , this program was made possible by working with the provinces , and we will continue to encourage landlords and tenants to work together to make sure they have relief for this very difficult time in which they 're living . we 're continuing to monitor the cecra program and we will make it possible for businesses to have access to the program . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , the government business rent relief program has been a total disaster . even the government 's own numbers show it is a failure . as of june 8 , less than 2 % of the $ 3 billion budgeted has been spent . what is it going to take for the government to admit that the program is a disaster and needs changes ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we know our government has been working closely with the provinces and territories to deliver the canada emergency commercial rent assistance . although the tenant-landlord relationship is ultimately the responsibility of the provinces and territories , our government has stepped up to provide support through the tools we have and through cmhc so that small businesses can get the rent relief they need . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , according to the government , there are around 1.1 million small businesses in canada . at committee , we were told only around 5,500 of them are receiving covid-19 rent relief . that number is shameful . when will the liberal government wake up and make the changes ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we welcome the steps some provinces and territories have taken to further protect commercial tenants . we will continue to monitor this program closely and ensure that canada 's small businesses are supported during this challenging time . we will continue to monitor to see the chair : we 'll go back to mr. saroya . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , there was no answer . when can the government make these changes ? hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : mr . chair , i want to assure the honourable colleague that we are doing everything and will continue to do everything to help small businesses in our country . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , on may 27 the cbsa seized 65 small handguns at pearson airport , the largest firearms seizure on record . it is clear that smuggled handguns are the weapon of choice for criminals . why is the prime minister focusing on an ineffective municipal ban ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : mr . chair , i would point out that gun violence in any of our communities is unacceptable , and it 's important that governments and communities take steps to prevent guns from getting into the hands of criminals . that 's why we do important work at our border to keep guns from being smuggled into our country , but it also necessitates additional work . i do n't think you can talk about gun violence without talking about stronger gun control . that 's why our government has taken a very strong position and will strengthen gun control to keep canadians safe . the chair : mr. saroya , you may have a 10-second question , if that 's possible , please . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , covid-19 has not stopped gun violence in the gta . my constituents are concerned about shootings minutes away from their homes . we know the liberals ' gun ban wo n't change anything , but a focus on smuggled guns and criminals will . when will they make that change ? hon . bill blair : mr . chair , stronger gun control laws are an effective tool , and that 's been told to us by police leadership and communities across the country . we 're also making investments in borders and law enforcement . most importantly , we 're making investments in communities and in kids to keep communities safe . i look forward to the member 's strong support of those measures when we bring them forward . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. hoback . mr. randy hoback ( prince albert , cpc ) : mr . chair , the u.s. and the u.k. began their second round of free trade negotiations yesterday . does the government intend to have a trade agreement in place before the u.k. tariffs come into effect on january 1 ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , the u.k. is a strong partner of canada , as is the european union , and we 're looking forward to continuing that strong relationship the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. hoback . mr. randy hoback : thank you , mr . chair . with respect to the negotiations with the u.k. , when will the minister publish her goals and objectives for this agreement ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , we 're going to continue to work to ensure that any future agreement is going to be based on the best interests of canadians , and we will the chair : we will go back to mr. hoback . mr. randy hoback : can the minister confirm whether they 've entered into negotiations with the u.k. at this point ? hon . mary ng : our government is analyzing the most-favoured-nation tariff regimes schedule the u.k. has put out . i want to assure canadians the chair : we 'll go back to mr. hoback . mr. randy hoback : mr . chair , during the cusma negotiations , a deal was struck between the liberal party and the ndp that the government would notify this house 90 days before it starts any negotiations on any trade agreement . when will the minister notify this house ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , i want to assure the honourable member that we will absolutely be sharing information . right now , we are analyzing the most-favoured-nation tariff regimes schedule put out by the u.k . mr. randy hoback : mr . chair , any meaningful attempts to reform the wto needs buy-in from the united states . i think all countries agree on that . has the minister discussed a wto reform with the ustr , the united states trade representative ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , the ottawa group is a consensus-based group , and any decisions will be taken together . of course , any meaningful reform must include the u.s . the chair : we 'll go back to mr. hoback . mr. randy hoback : has the u.s. been invited to the ottawa group meetings ? hon . mary ng : the ottawa group is a consensus-based group limited to wto members who are committed to bringing forward ideas and proposals the chair : we 'll go back to mr. hoback . mr. randy hoback : just as with any other trade agreement , the minister has committed to this house that she will publish the list of goals and responsibilities for the negotiations . when will she publish the list for the ottawa group ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , i 'm thrilled that we had an excellent meeting of the ottawa group yesterday where , as a group , we agreed to take concrete action . mr. randy hoback : will the minister be releasing a list of canada 's objectives we would like to see the new wto 's director-general pursue prior to the upcoming dg election ? hon . mary ng : we published an action statement from the ottawa group yesterday . i would encourage the member opposite to have a look . i 'm certainly happy to send it to him . mr. randy hoback : going back to economic prosperity , we know that the u.s. has been having talks with other countries around the world . has canada yet been invited to this group ? hon . mary ng : i 'm pleased to continue to pursue the objectives of trade diversification . i would remind the member that we have access to a billion and a half customers through our very robust mr. randy hoback : a billion and a half customers is fine if you have a functioning wto , but if you do n't have a functioning wto , then a billion and a half customers may not be fully accessible to our suppliers , manufacturers and agriculture producers . can the minister confirm that she 's in discussions with the u.s. in joining this economic prosperity group ? hon . mary ng : mr . chair , i want to assure the honourable member that nothing is more important than standing up and helping create markets for our canadian businesses and to help our small businesses get more export-ready so that they can grow into the international marketplace . this is work that we 've committed to do , and we will keep working on it , particularly the chair : we 'll go back to mr. hoback . mr. randy hoback : yesterday saskatchewan presented a budget . not only did they present the budget , but they 'll also actually debate the budget and pass the budget in parliament . there 's full accountability . why wo n't this government do the same ? hon . pablo rodriguez ( leader of the government in the house of commons ) : mr . chair , the house is sitting in this hybrid format so that people can participate in the house on the screens . i 'm sure my colleague is happy to see that his own colleagues are able to ask questions and participate . the chair : we 'll now go to mr. williamson . mr. john williamson ( new brunswick southwest , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . i will say that this is no substitute for parliament , but i appreciate the opportunity . new brunswick families and businesses are rapidly making adjustments to manage and live with the coronavirus pandemic . businesses here are opening and services are being offered . families are preparing for summer and even planning ahead for a new school year in september . we have a lot of work ahead of us . one notable absence is service canada . when does the government plan on opening its service counters to assist canadians again ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : mr . chair , our government is committed to ensuring that canadians continue to have access to the benefits that they rely on through service canada . we have redeployed over 3,000 additional staff to ensure that canadians continue to have access to their benefits . we 've established a 1,500-agent call centre to make sure that people can get access to the phone lines to get the help they need . mr. john williamson : service canada is about more than providing covid-19 information and benefits . provincial governments are working hard to adjust to canada 's new normal by opening up businesses and front-line government services . when will we see service canada play its role and open its service counters in our communities ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we 're currently working with our world-class public health experts to determine how best to reopen the service canada network for the public . make no mistake : our service canada employees have gone above and beyond to ensure that canadians continue to have access to the services that they rely on and the benefits that they need . mr. john williamson : please do n't hide behind health experts when the prime minister is appearing in the middle of large protests , yet is afraid to bring back the parliament of canada to do its business . in fact , the new brunswick legislature is open for regular business . bills are being studied , opposition input is being heard and mlas are voting on legislation , not rubber-stamping government bills . by comparison , our parliament is stuck in pretending it can not function like other law-making assemblies . canadians are in the dark about our country 's finances . when will the government table an economic update so taxpayers understand what was spent , what is owed by our kids and grandchildren , and what the government 's fiscal footing looks like ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , nobody 's hiding . nobody 's doing anything like that . the only reason my colleague is able to ask a question and i 'm able to answer his question is that he 's right there on the screen . we have this hybrid format that cares for mps across the country , not only the ones sitting in the house . mr. john williamson : this is no substitute for parliament . i will ask my question again . when will the government table an economic update so that taxpayers understand what was spent , what is owed by our kids and grandchildren , and what the government 's fiscal footing looks like in today 's environment ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , i thank my honourable colleague for his question . canada 's economy is still in a period of extraordinary uncertainty due to covid-19 . we have been open and transparent about the measures we have been providing to support families , businesses and workers . even our health care the chair : we 'll go back to mr. williamson . mr. john williamson : except you have not . the auditor general is underfunded . we have no idea about the total of government spending . again i will ask when the government will table an economic update so that we can have an understanding of what the government 's fiscal footing looks like . hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we have included biweekly reports to parliament on the full cost and status of our economic response plan measures since the beginning . i have said , and i will continue to say , that when it is possible to provide a clear economic projection , we will provide an update . mr. john williamson : what is the full cost to date of the government 's covid-19 relief measures , as the minister just claimed the government has provided to parliament ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we have provided support for workers , and 2.5 million canadians have been helped through the canadian wage subsidy . we have provided businesses with some loans , and 669,000 businesses have applied for these loans . even for the cerb , we have over eight million canadians who have applied . the chair : we will now continue with mr.bergeron . mr. stphane bergeron : mr.chair , as the leader of the bloc qubcois mentioned a few moments ago , the government promised $ 14billion to quebec and the provinces , but in targeted transfers . that is very little compared to the considerable expenses incurred to deal with the current crisis . but quebec and the provinces do n't just want this money to be transferred unconditionally , they also want a real discussion on a permanent increase in health care transfers . premierlegault was rightly concerned about the feds ' interference into provincial jurisdictions . the federal government , which does not manage any hospitals or long-term care centres , must stop playing armchair quarterback and transfer the money to the only governments with jurisdiction over health , that is , quebec and the provinces . will it do so without delay and without nitpicking ? the honourable patty hajdu ( minister of health ) : mr.chair , we know that the government of quebec is working hard to ensure the safety of quebeckers and we are here to support them . as part of this co-operation , we have developed health and safety recommendations for workplaces , we have purchased medical equipment for workers and we have supported the province in developing its reopening program . we are continuing this important partnership to ensure the safety of quebeckers and all canadians . mr. stphane bergeron : the co-operation is so effective that the money is staying in the federal government 's coffers . in fact , when the federal government wants to impose conditions , it always takes longer . we see it with housing , for which quebec has not received a dime of the $ 1.4billion it is owed . we have also seen it with infrastructure funds , particularly for public transit , water systems and water treatment . the health crisis is now . the needs are now . the much needed reopening of our economy is now . will the government finally transfer the money without messing around or quibbling ? hon . pablo rodriguez : i am pleased to confirm to my colleague that there is no messing around , no quibbling , nothing of the kind . there is co-operation between two levels of government . it is natural to have discussions with all the provinces and with quebec . i myself am taking part in some discussions and several of my colleagues are taking part in others . there is a clear willingness on the part of the federal government to co-operate with quebec and all the provinces . that is what we are doing and that is perhaps what the bloc qubcois does not like . it likes bickering , but for the time being , there is none . mr. stphane bergeron : we do n't want to bicker , we want the money to be paid out . it is not complicated , for heaven 's sake ! we do not want a blank cheque . right now , the money remains in the federal government 's coffers . there is $ 1.4billion that should be paid to quebec for social housing and is sitting in the federal government 's coffers . we are waiting for money for water treatment and water systems , but it is sitting in the federal government 's coffers . it 's almost july . we are wasting precious months for construction . what is the government waiting for to pay out the money so that we can get our economy rolling ? hon . pablo rodriguez : the federal government is a very active partner . we are discussing and working with quebec on infrastructure projects . we are continuing our discussions and negotiations on the housing agreement . nothing is at a standstill . we are discussing and co-operating for the well-being of all quebeckers . mr. stphane bergeron : madamchair , things are definitely at a standstill , because the money is owed and has not been paid out . months are going by while construction is not taking place . we need to reopen the economy . we need more flexibility in the gas tax program and quebec 's contribution to allow municipalities to undertake work on city halls , community centres and fire stations . we need the federal government to contribute to funding public transit operations , which have become a real financial drain because of the drop in ridership . what is the federal government waiting for to provide real help instead of just talking ? hon . pablo rodriguez : when it comes to just talking , the bloc qubcois has a lot of experience , i admit . we , in the government , are working and co-operating . we are not waiting with our arms folded , we are discussing a series of issues with quebec . we do more than discuss , we work and we co-operate . we are working on projects , not only in infrastructure , but in a number of other areas . just think of the co-operation of our armed forces in the chslds , for example . we are here for quebeckers . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : your time has run out , mr.bergeron . we 'll go now to ms. khalid , from mississaugaerin mills . ms. iqra khalid ( mississaugaerin mills , lib . ) : madam chair , i 'll be splitting my time with the member for glengarryprescottrussell . during a consultation with the business community in mississauga , the concerns of businesses , big and small , included the need for stable , affordable and safe child care . with the lack of such child care spaces , an economic recovery plan post-covid can not be effective until and unless we make sure that people are able to get back to work . i 've heard from parents across mississauga that they 're being forced to stay home because of inadequate child care and that they have to choose between putting food on the table and keeping family safe . more and more employers are realizing that good employees are unable to contribute to their business growth because of this challenge . now more than ever , we need to find long-term sustainable solutions for canadians who face challenges with regard to child care . i ask our minister of families , children and social development this : what is our strategy to tackle this ever-growing need for a national child care plan ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , i thank the honourable member for her question and for her important advocacy and work on this important issue . we understand that child care is important to our economic recovery and our social infrastructure . we know the pressure that covid-19 has placed on families , especially parents . that is why we 're committed to continuing to work with provinces and territories to renew our agreements on early learning and child care , and to provide , at the earliest opportunity , $ 400 million in support . in addition to that , the prime minister has already indicated that child care will be part of the $ 14-billion pledge to provinces and territories to assist them with respect to covid-19 recovery efforts . over the next decade , we will continue to invest $ 7.5 billion , and together we have achieved the goal of over 40,000 affordable child care spaces . we are also committed to continuing to create over 250,000 before-school and after-school child care spaces for kids under the age of 10 . we will continue to work with our partners in the provinces and territories to ensure that canadians can continue to have access to safe , quality and affordable child care . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable member for glengarryprescottrussell has the floor . mr. francis drouin ( glengarryprescottrussell , lib . ) : madamchair , small businesses play a fundamental role in the canadian economy . in an article in lapresse , the minister of economic development warned us that the economic crisis caused by severe lockdown measures could have more serious consequences in small municipalities than in large cities . based on discussions with the chambers of commerce in my riding , it is clear that federal government assistance will be essential for the reopening of the economy , specifically for the rural economy . in fact , i would like to acknowledge the work of the prescott-russell community development corporation , under the leadership of john candie . after announcing almost $ 57million to help smes adopt e-commerce , how does the minister plan to help smes and the business community in our rural areas ? hon . mlanie joly ( minister of economic development and official languages ) : madamchair , i also thank my colleague from glengarryprescottrussell for his important question . yes , our regions are important and the entrepreneurs in those regions are creative and daring . they take risks , but they are currently facing huge challenges . so we are here for them . we understand their anxiety and we want to help them . that is why we have decided to invest heavily in rural economic development . it is also why we have doubled the budget of cfdcs and community futures organizations across the country . in southern ontario we have reinvested over $ 260million in the regional economic development agency feddev . in the great riding of glengarryprescottrussell , which i am particularly fond of and where there is a very good member of parliament , there is an additional $ 1million for entrepreneurs in the region . we have been , we are and we will be at your side . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable member for glengarryprescottrussell has 36seconds left . no ? then we 'll go to the honourable member for elmwoodtranscona . mr. daniel blaikie ( elmwoodtranscona , ndp ) : thank you very much , madam chair . i 'll be splitting my time with the member for victoria . madam chair , krystal is a community worker in winnipeg . she has been working from home since late march , taking care of her child , who is out of school , and caring for her father , who is living with her and vulnerable to covid-19 . her employer called her up recently and asked her to physically return to work or to take a leave . as a parent and a care provider to a vulnerable person , she 's not comfortable with physically returning to work . service canada wo n't give krystal a straight answer as to whether going on leave and collecting cerb would count as refusing a reasonable job offer . with bill c-17 looming in the background , krystal is worried about jail time and fines if she does right by her child and her father by applying for cerb . can krystal reasonably refuse to go back to work and collect cerb , or will she be considered a fraudster ? that 's my question for the minister that is specific to krystal 's case . as well , what is the minister doing to provide clear direction to canadians and to service canada agents so that people can get a clear answer before making their decision about returning to work ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , i want to thank the honourable member for his important question . we recognize that canadian workers will face various different situations , including those who are ineligible for the canada emergency support benefit . we 'll continue to work with workers to make sure they 're able to be supported throughout this pandemic . the fact of the matter is that every province has workplace health and safety regulations that must be supported . we understand that workers have the right not to work in unsafe situations . we also understand that many canadians do want to go back to work ; and in fact many have . we will make sure that we support canadians throughout this recovery process . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable member has 47 seconds left , and that includes the answer . mr. daniel blaikie : madam chair , that answer is really not good enough , because the problem here is that krystal needs to know whether she can continue receiving cerb or not . that 's a federal government decision , and she needs to know whether the federal government is going to accuse her of fraud and put her in jail or assess fines against her if she refuses to go back to work because she wants to take care of her child and her father . what is the minister 's answer to that ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable minister has 20 seconds to respond . hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , i can assure the honourable member that if a canadian has to take care of a loved one due to circumstances surrounding the covid-19 pandemic , they are indeed eligible to receive the cerb and remain receiving that benefit . ms. laurel collins ( victoria , ndp ) : as we deal with the global pandemic , we can not lose sight of the ongoing climate emergency . canada has missed every single climate target it set , and we need to break the cycle of empty promises . canadians want their government to be accountable , and environmental groups such as ecojustice , can-rac , environmental defence and west coast environmental law , as well as the government 's own climate institute , are all calling for legally binding climate targets . when will the government put its climate targets into law with legally binding milestones so we never miss another target again ? hon . navdeep bains ( mississaugamalton , lib . ) : madam chair , i thank my honourable colleague for her question . i totally agree with her when it comes to the environment . it is a priority not only for us as a government , but it should be a priority for all canadians . that is why we have put measures in place to put a price on pollution through carbon pricing . that is why we have a comprehensive plan that also includes significant investments in clean technology , which will help reduce our carbon footprint . i am confident that these measures will enable us to not only meet but exceed our 2030 target and also allow us to achieve our net-zero 2050 target . ms. laurel collins : that did n't answer my question . i asked when . empty promises wo n't get us any closer to meeting our climate targets . can the minister tell us when his government will introduce climate accountability laws ? hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , i think the fundamental issue here is having a plan when it comes to the environment . i 'm confident that the measures that we have takenputting a price on pollution , investing in clean technology , and other key measures to reduce our carbon footprint , including the investment in infrastructureunderpin a plan the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go back to the honourable member for victoria . ms. laurel collins : this government is not meeting its targets , but it is meeting with oil and gas lobbyists . the pandemic has made us reflect on our priorities . are we going to choose a just recovery with good , sustainable jobs for canadian workers , or are we going to keep subsidizing oil and gas companies to the tune of billions , subsidies that we know are ending up in the pockets of ceos and shareholders ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will have a brief answer from the minister . hon . navdeep bains : again , madam chair , this is the fundamental difference between us and the ndp . we fundamentally believe that the entire economy needs to work together , including the energy sector , to enable us to achieve those 2030 and 2050 targets . we are going to work together to support our workers , including in the energy sector , to reduce our carbon footprint . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : now we will go to the honourable member for saskatoongrasswood , mr. waugh . mr. kevin waugh ( saskatoongrasswood , cpc ) : thank you , madam chair . when i was last here in may , i was on my way back to saskatoon from toronto , and there was actually someone on my flight who tested positive for covid-19 . i was never informed of it by the airline . i found out two weeks later . the report was in the news media . why has n't the government put rules in place requiring airlines to reach out to individuals like me who may have been exposed to covid on their flights ? hon . patty hajdu : madam chair , it 's hard to speculate on what happened from such a vague description of his experience , but i will say that we have every confidence in local public health , which is doing the hard and heavy lifting of contact tracing and working very closely with all kinds of different sectors , including airline sectors , to make sure that close contacts of people who have tested positive for covid-19 are found , are traced and are isolated . i assume that the member took appropriate precautions on the flight and i hope that he continues to do so . mr. kevin waugh : madam chair , it was reported that the individual on my plane who had covid was actually connecting in toronto from an international flight . the prime minister announced last week that they would begin mandating temperature checks for those bound for canada in july . will international travellers be tested when they land in canada , or will they be relying on the tests that take place in other countries ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , this is a very important question , because the protection and safety of all canadiansin particular , canadian travellersis a high priority for our government . we 've been working very closely with the airlines . at the current time , we are putting temperature screening in place . that will initially be done primarily by the airlines that are in the best position to do it at this point in time . we are also now going to be including catsa , the people who do the security screening , so that when people enter the airport , they will also be screened . we believe that is going to be the most effective measure to keep all travellers safe . mr. kevin waugh : madam chair , last week five of the largest professional sports leagues in north america put out a statement of support for my private member 's bill , the safe and regulated sports betting act . given the struggles that clubs and leagues are facing due to covid-19 , including having no fans at all in the stands for the foreseeable future , the legalization of sports betting would be a welcome opportunity not only to engage fans but to generate much-needed revenue . will the government commit now to supporting the sports and gaming industries by supporting my private member 's bill , bill c-218 ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , i 've had the opportunity on many occasions to speak to members of parliament and also to mayors and councillors and people living in border communities where there are casinos . they 've raised this issue a number of times . we 've listened very carefully to the concerns that have been expressed by them . i would like to advise the member that i look forward to the opportunity for a careful examination of his bill . we are at all times concerned about maintaining the integrity of the gaming industry within our community . that 's the best way to protect canadians . at the same time , we will examine his bill with all of the necessary attention to make sure it 's given full consideration . mr. kevin waugh : madam chair , it 's the first time in history that we 've had the five professional leagues in this country joining together for this bill . newspapers rely , as we all know , on advertising for a significant portion of their revenue . this includes the usual flyers as well as in-paper ads . i 've heard major concerns from a number of newspapers in this country about competition they 're receiving today from canada post , which is offering massive free postage services . in fact , i have one of their ads here , which says that the first 6,000 pieces of postage are 100 % free . if the government is genuine about wanting to ensure that newspapers and journals can succeed in this country , why are you allowing canada post to use its monopoly power to actually threaten local newspapers in this country ? hon . steven guilbeault ( minister of canadian heritage ) : thank you , madame chair , and i thank the member opposite for his question . as you well know , a healthy news and media sector in canada is a priority for our government , which is why we have put in place a number of measures before covid-19 and during covid-19 , and we will continue to be there for them after this crisis has gone by . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : before we go on , we will be taking a break to do a bit of a changeover . i also want to remind members to address their questions and comments to the chair . we will go now to the honourable member for brucegreyowen sound , mr. ruff . mr. alex ruff ( brucegreyowen sound , cpc ) : thank you , chair . mr. blair stated yesterday here in the house that the ar-15 has been used in mass killings in canada on many occasions . mr. blair , please provide just one specific instance in which an ar-15 was used in a mass killing in canada . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : i remind the member to address questions and comments to the chair . the honourable minister may respond . hon . bill blair : thank you very much , madam chair . i think this is an excellent opportunity to point out to the member opposite how important it is to actually listen to what was said . if you go back and review that tape , and i would invite you to do so , you 'll see that i said the ar-15 and other weapons like themreferring of course to military-style assault weaponshave been used in mass killings , and i actually cited a number of examples . madam chair , i think it would be very useful if the member 's questions were based on facts . mr. alex ruff : i can remind mr. blair that i actually have watched the video a couple of times , and he specifically states that the ar-15 was used in mass killings in canada , yet he has yet to provide one . my additional question is to mr. blair . out of the recently banned firearms on may 1 , how many have been or are still currently in use by the canadian armed forces ? hon . bill blair : that 's an excellent question , madam chair , because it 's very important to provide canadians with clarity . we have prohibited these firearms for non-law enforcement and non-military use . the military uses weapons that were actually designed for soldiers to use in combat to shoot other soldiers . that 's the appropriate use of such weapons , madam chair . they 're not things to be played with in civilian society . mr. alex ruff : as a soldier for 25 years , i 'll remind mr. blair that none of the currently prohibited firearms would be used in the canadian armed forces . i asked him a question on whether any of them is being or ever has been used in the canadian armed forces . are any of the recently banned firearms still in use , or have they ever been in use , in any military in the world ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , i think it 's important to also recognize that the basic origin , the provenance of the weapons that we have prohibited , was in their original design . they were designed for military use for various military forces around the world . as i 've said previously , they were designed for soldiers to use in combat to kill other soldiers . they 're very efficient in their design for killing people . they have no purpose in canadian society . mr. alex ruff : as someone who has used many military-style firearms and who is actually involved in helping define what we purchase in the military , i would use none of the ones that are currently prohibited . i have a question , chair , for minister macaulay . can he please confirm whether veterans affairs has a plan to address the claims backlog , yes or no ? hon . lawrence macaulay ( minister of veterans affairs ) : madam chair , i appreciate my honourable colleague 's question , and yes , we 've indicated that it 's a major priority . that 's why i 'm so pleased that the supplementary estimates contained just under $ 90 million to address hiring more staff , improving the process and making sure that we attack the backlog in an appropriate manner . mr. alex ruff : madame chair , does that plan exist in written form ? hon . lawrence macaulay : well , madam chair , i can assure you that it 's in the supplementary estimates , and of course , this money is the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we 'll go back to mr. ruff . mr. alex ruff : the question is about the plan , not how much money has been allocated . i am asking for the written plan on how to address the backlog . hon . lawrence macaulay : madam chair , i can tell my honourable colleague that the money is in the supplementary estimates , and with the money we 're able to attack this problem in an appropriate manner , and that 's what is important for our veterans . mr. alex ruff : the deputy minister committed on march 10 that a written plan would be provided to the standing committee on veterans affairs within a month and made public . did the deputy minister or the department provide the minister that plan within a month ? hon . lawrence macaulay : madame chair , i 'm sure my honourable colleague wants an appropriate plan and he would be fully aware this just under $ 90 million would make a big difference in the plan to attack the backlog . we the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we 'll go back to mr. ruff . mr. alex ruff : thank you , chair . therefore , my question is , if the deputy minister in the department provided him with an appropriate plan or a written plan , why is he questioning how appropriate that plan is ? i have complete confidence in the deputy minister 's ability to produce a written plan . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable minister may give a brief answer , please . hon . lawrence macaulay : i can assure my honourable colleague that with the appropriate funding , we will address the backlog in veterans affairs . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go now to the honourable member for parry soundmuskoka , mr. aitchison . mr. scott aitchison : thank you , madam chair . my question is about summer camps again . three weeks ago , i asked this government if the finance minister would meet with the beleaguered summer camp sector . summer camps , which are a social and economic mainstay in parry soundmuskoka and all of northern ontario , have been crippled by the global pandemic . it 's costing millions of jobs , and some camps are actually in danger of folding . aside from a brief follow-up conversation over the phone with the junior minister , there has still been no action from this government . when will the minister of finance meet with summer camps to find a solution ? hon . ahmed hussen : madam chair , i recognize the honourable member 's important question and his focus on summer camps . we recognize the importance of looking at that and paying attention to the needs of that community . we will continue to engage with them , as we have , to ensure and find ways in which we can get their feedback and find ways in which we can support them . that work is ongoing , and i assure the honourable member that our focus is on the kids and on ensuring that they have access to summer camps for this year . mr. scott aitchison : i do n't know why you need to find ways to get feedback . the summer camps association has given lots of feedback and my office has given lots of feedback , so i do n't see what 's confusing about this . however , i 've become accustomed to not really getting answers to questions , so i will go to the next one . the ontario government 's regional reopening plan permits cruise boats to resume on georgian bay , yet the federal government is refusing to allow these vessels to operate until july 1 . therefore , small businesses such as the island queen cruiser in parry sound , which has only a very few precious weeks to operate in the first place , is losing yet another two weeks because of federal inaction . this not only hurts the cruise boat industry but also hurts tourism and small businesses all through our area . will the minister of transport take a regional approach himself by lifting the federal ban on georgian bay , just like the province of ontario has done ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable minister may reply . is there a response ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , there is . i apologize for the confusion . let me respond , if i may , on behalf of the minister of transport . there have been a number of very important discussions with the provinces , in particular with the province of ontario , around provisions regarding pleasure craft . there are certain restrictions that will come to an end on june 30 . we 're working very closely with our provincial counterparts to address this issue , but we want to ensure that it will be done safely . mr. scott aitchison : madam chair , i actually gave the minister a heads-up that i would be asking that question . he sent me an email today saying he was not going to be able to be in the house , and it 's great of him to do that . he said that whoever was going to fill in for him would have an answer , but again , that was not really an answer . the next issue i would like to bring this government 's attention to is the deplorable state of rural internet service in parry soundmuskoka . quite simply , there are too many gaps in service , and what is available is generally way too expensive . we have families trying to work and teach their kids from home on unreliable and outrageously expensive internet service , and we have too many small businesses that either can not access or afford reliable internet services . today greg rickford , the ontario energy minister , and laurie scott , ontario minister of infrastructure , announced $ 2.3 million for seven northern ontario broadband projects . minister , will when your government get serious and become a reliable partner for the government of ontario and the private sector to deliver this crucial modern-day infrastructure to rural canadians ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : i remind the member that he needs to address the questions and comments to the chair . the honourable minister may reply . hon . maryam monsef ( minister for women and gender equality and rural economic development ) : madam chair , in the best of times , life without access to high-speed internet is hard . during a pandemic , the challenges are that much more pronounced . our government 's unprecedented investments are already connecting a million more canadian households to this essential service , but until we achieve universal access our work is not done . we will work with our partners , including provinces across the country , to connect every canadian household to high-quality internet access that is affordable and reliable . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable member has 30 seconds . mr. scott aitchison : i think i can squeeze something in here , then . i 'm wondering , then , madam chair , since the province of ontario has used the northern ontario heritage corporation fund to make this announcement , what about using fednor to make the same kind of announcement , and partner with the province ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable minister has a brief answer . hon . mlanie joly : obviously we believe in the importance of northern ontario ; that 's why we nearly doubled the budget of fednor . we will continue to invest in businesses and people all around parry sound , muskoka and northern ontario . if my colleague has specific projects in mind , please come and see me and let 's have a conversation . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable member for montmagny-l'islet-kamouraskarivire-du-loup , mr.gnreux , has the floor . mr. bernard gnreux ( montmagnyl'isletkamouraskarivire-du-loup , cpc ) : thank you , madamchair . i will continue along the same lines as my colleague . during this pandemic , we are realizing the extent to which reliable high-speed internet service is needed for canada 's economy . there are still places where telework is not possible today because of the lack of adequate coverage . however , since2015 , the government has committed to addressing the situation through three new programs . benot pilotto , who is the mayor of saint-onsime-d'ixworth , in my riding , wrote to me a few days ago . that is why i am asking you what concrete results the government plans to achieve for our rural areas by the end of the year . hon . maryam monsef : at the best of times , life without high-speed internet access is difficult . during a pandemic , the difficulties are even greater . our government 's unprecedented investments are already connecting an additional one million canadian households to this essential service . however , until we achieve universal access , our job is not done . we are working the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr.gnreux , you have the floor . mr. bernard gnreux : madamchair , i am simply asking the minister to tell me when the mayor of saint-onsime-d'ixworth will be able to tell his residents when the internet will be available in his municipality . it is not complicated . what does the government plan to do so that rural municipalities across canada can have access to the internet as soon as possible ? what is its plan ? hon . maryam monsef : we are working with partners across the country to ensure that every canadian household is connected to a high-quality , accessible and affordable high-speed internet service . madam chair , i assure my colleagues that we share the same goal , and we will work with all our partners across the country to ensure every canadian household has access the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : mr.gnreux , you have the floor . mr. bernard gnreux : madamchair , i am still not getting a specific answer . according to the government 's plan , when will rural canadian businesses and households be connected ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : i would ask the honourable minister to provide a brief answer . hon . maryam monsef : madam chair , those plans are under way , and we will have more to share in the coming days . mr. bernard gnreux : it seems that the minister of rural economic development plans to announce a new plan this week . can she tell us how this program will differ from the connect to innovate program , which is already in place ? can the minister tell us whether her program will solve the problem of the 25square kilometre hexagonal zones , which unfortunately make many projects ineligible for the crtc 's broadband fund ? hon . maryam monsef : madam chair , i 'm pleased to share with my colleague that the model he 's referring to , the hexagon model , is no more . our maps are much more precise now to ensure that we do not leave canadians behind . mr. bernard gnreux : madamchair , this year , the canada summer jobs program is a real fiasco . i think all my colleagues will agree with me . on may13 , 100jobs were announced in my riding ; on may20 , 16jobs were announced ; on may27 , 13jobs were announced ; on june3 , 12jobs were announced ; and on june10 , only one job was announced . as we speak , an amount of $ 100,000 is still to be confirmed in my riding . can we have an announcement , once and for all ? let 's stop the piecemeal announcements and finally confirm the remaining jobs today so that our organizations can have young people before the summer starts on the weekend . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable minister . hon . ahmed hussen : madamchair , i thank the honourable member for his question . we recognize the important role that the canada summer jobs program is playing in supporting employers and young workers in communities right across the country . our government is working very hard to help employers adapt to the realities of the covid-19 pandemic , and at the same time is supporting young canadians as they begin to look for summer employment . we 've introduced flexibilities into the program to ensure that more young workers have opportunities to get employed . the honourable member also has to understand that we 're in the covid-19 pandemic , and as such it will take some time for businesses to equip themselves to hire students . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable member for nanaimoladysmith , mr. manly . mr. paul manly ( nanaimoladysmith , gp ) : thank you , madam chair . in the first five months of this year , 554 b.c . residents died from opioid overdoses . they were teachers , construction workers , business owners , family members , neighbours and friends . addiction is a health and social issue , but criminalization creates stigma , so people hide their drug use and die alone . access to a safe supply of drugs and safe injection sites saves lives and puts addicts in daily contact with people who can help them . will this government end the war on drugs by decriminalizing them , providing a safe supply and reallocating resources from policing addicts to providing treatment for them ? hon . patty hajdu : madam chair , i think it 's really important we make sure that when we speak about people who use substances , we remove stigmatizing language like the word addict . we can stand together , as this government has , with people who use substances and their families to ensure a range of options for people who are struggling with addiction , who are using substances in a way that is harming their health and their communities . as you know , we have restored harm reduction to the canadian drugs and substances strategy . we 've made it easier for people to access safe supplies of substances . we 've increased access to treatment and the variety of treatment through federal transfers to provinces and territories . madam chair , we 're working with communities to make sure there are more community-based approaches to treating the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go back to mr. manly . mr. paul manly : madam chair , the geneva convention considers both tear gas and pepper spray to be chemical weapons and prohibits their use in war , yet our police forces use these weapons on canadian civilians . these weapons are indiscriminate and can affect peaceful protestors and innocent bystanders . will the government prohibit the use of these weapons and require police to use de-escalation techniques to keep legal protests peaceful ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , the right to peaceful protest in this country is a constitutionally protected right . we want to ensure it 's always respected . at the same time , madam chair , we recognize that the use of even less than lethal force can have significant impacts on people 's safety . this is a highly regulated substance in canada . it 's prohibited for non-police use , and for the police it is and should be highly regulated . the rcmp have advised me they have not used tear gas in nine years . we 'll continue to monitor it to ensure that peaceful protest is always respected . mr. paul manly : madam chair , in 2012 the rcmp spent $ 14 million on 18 armoured personnel carriers . one 's parked at the nanaimo detachment . i ca n't imagine why we have weapons of war like this for policing civilians . will the government rein in the rcmp budget and end wasteful spending on militarizing our civilian police forces ? hon . bill blair : madam chair , it 's a very important tradition that our canadian police are not militarized . at the same time , we 've seen a number of tragedies when police have responded to situations in which people were armed with weapons designed for soldiers to kill soldiers , and they 've been used to kill police officers . the militarization of our society , so strongly promoted by some , is the direct consequence of the militarization of the police . as we remove these weapons from our society and prohibit them , we 'll make it safer for everyone and we can then move away from such a model of policing . mr. paul manly : madam chair , the government spent $ 4.5 billion to buy an old , leaky pipeline . since 1961 , there have been 82 reported spills from the trans mountain pipeline . over 1.5 million litres of crude oil has spilled into the surrounding environment . this weekend , the trans mountain pipeline leaked again , dumping 190,000 litres of oil . how much is this spill going to cost canadian taxpayers to clean up ? how much contingency funding has been budgeted to repair the environmental destruction from spills ? hon . navdeep bains : madam chair , i want to thank the honourable colleague for his question . he full well knows that the acquisition that we made with regard to the tmx initiative is a reflection of the fact that we want this initiative to move forward in a sustainable manner and in a manner that protects the environment . i 'll continue to work with my colleagues to endeavour to make sure that we have the appropriate processes in place to protect the environment and at the same time create good-quality , middle-class jobs for canadians . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable member for rosemontla petitepatrie , mr.boulerice , has the floor . mr. alexandre boulerice ( rosemontla petite-patrie , ndp ) : thank you , madamchair . the black lives matter movement is right to discuss systemic racism in our societies . in montreal , the city and the police department have recognized this , and measures will be put in place . the liberal government , once again , is all talk and no walk . although it spends $ 10million a day , we see no attempt to reform or change the rcmp . if the prime minister really wants to act , why is he delaying the action plan in response to the national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls ? hon . bill blair : let me assure this house and the member opposite that we 're not dragging our feet . this is an important issue . indigenous people , black canadians and other racialized people are far too often experiencing systemic racism and disparate outcomes through the criminal justice system . it 's incumbent upon all of us who work within the criminal justice system to take the steps and actions necessary to produce more equitable outcomes . all police services , including the rcmp , must be committed to ensuring that the people they 're sworn to serve and protect are always treated with dignity and respect . mr. alexandre boulerice : madamchair , why are the liberals taking indigenous children to court to challenge the canadian human rights tribunal ruling in their favour ? hon . marc miller ( minister of indigenous services ) : madam chair , as the honourable member knows full well , a number of cases are pending , and we are currently negotiating with the parties . we are making progress , and i would be delighted to tell the member and the house about it in response to a later question . mr. alexandre boulerice : we 've been asking questions about it for months , and as i see it , we should keep doing so . the prime minister 's new pipeline , which taxpayers were forced to buy with their hard-earned money , has leaked . some 190,000litres of oil spilled , and we ca n't even make the company pay for it because the liberals bought the pipeline . trans-mountain , keystonexl and the resumption of gas exploration and development off the coast of newfoundland and labradorare these the projects the liberals had in mind for their green recovery ? hon . navdeep bains : i 'd like to thank the honourable member for his question . our priority was to protect the health and safety of canadians throughout the pandemic , especially when it comes to the environment . that 's why environmental and climate change laws aimed at protecting the environment , human health and conservation will remain in force . mr. alexandre boulerice : across quebec , the cultural community is going through a harrowing time . unions , associations , artists and creators have all taken part in public demonstrations recently to condemn the lack of a specific plan for the living arts , performing arts and festival sector . what is the government waiting for ? hon . steven guilbeault : i 'd like to thank the member for his question . however , i strongly disagree with him . we have n't waited to develop a plan for the arts and culture sector . we listened to the community and we tailored our supports , as they were announced . we have an emergency plan for the arts and culture sector . we were asked to adapt the cerb to take royalties into account , and we did . we were asked to extend the cerb , and we did . we are fully aware that the recovery will take longer in the arts and culture sector . we have been there , we are there and we will be there for the arts and culture sector . mr. alexandre boulerice : well , that was n't at all what the artists and creators who were out demonstrating in the streets a few days ago thought . they were protesting on the weekend . the cerb extension announced by the government only brings us to september , but the cultural community is expecting the worst in the fall . what is the government 's long-term plan to support creators and their entire teams ? hon . steven guilbeault : i 'm not so sure those who were protesting last week had issues with our government , but we 'd certainly be happy to speak with them . as for a long-term plan , we are currently consulting arts and culture stakeholders to contemplate together how the government can help the sector in response to the ongoing crisis . we are working on finding solutions , but until we have long-term solutions , we have seen to it that our artists and organizations have access to funding until september . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the honourable member for beauportlimoilou , mrs.vignola , has the floor . mrs. julie vignola ( beauportlimoilou , bq ) : madam chair , i will be sharing my time with the member for montcalm . according to the latest news , seaspan shipyards will be spending an additional $ 1.5billion to build two ships . why ? because the ships were ordered in 2011 and still have n't been delivered . davie built the asterix without going over budget because it delivered the ship on time . davie is currently the top shipyard , representing 50 % of canada 's shipbuilding capacity . why is n't davie being awarded its fair share of contracts ? hon . anita anand ( minister of public services and procurement ) : i 'd like to thank the member for her question . davie is certainly a strong and trusted partner that works very hard to help our government get results for canadians . building a new class of ships is highly complex , and it 's not unusual for cost estimates to change throughout the procurement project . it 's important to make sure additional funding is available for the joint support ships project to ensure the navy 's vessels are delivered . mrs. julie vignola : we are talking about $ 1.5billion , here . in the beginning , eight years ago , the project was supposed to cost $ 2.6billion . there ca n't be much missing when the cost overrun is double the initial estimate . why have n't the ships been delivered yet ? why is davie still not seen as a trusted partner ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : minister , please keep your answer brief . hon . anita anand : once again , i would point out that building a new class of ships is highly complex , and it 's not unusual for the cost estimate to change for a procurement project as large as this one . i know that davie works very hard , and we also believe it is an outstanding partner . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : it is now over to the honourable member for montcalm , mr.thriault . mr. luc thriault ( montcalm , bq ) : madam chair , in quebec , 12,000people have begun their training to work in residential and long-term care centres . they will be ready for duty in mid-september . in the meantime , we need the support of the army , which is helping us save lives . the dedication of the members of the armed forces is paramount , and i want to extend my heartfelt thanks . the government extended their mission until june26 , which is only 10days away . what does the army have to do right now that is more important than helping our caregivers save lives ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madam chair , i 'm glad my fellow member recognizes the fundamental role the men and women of the canadian armed forces have played and continue to play in residential and long-term care centres and many other areas in support of our seniors . we are in talks with the quebec government . the discussions around providing continued assistance to quebec are quite positive and productive . that assistance can take many forms , including the red cross . we will be there for our seniors , madam chair . mr. luc thriault : we are short 12,000people , so if the red cross wants to help us , all the better . we 'll take all the help we can get . barely 800members of the military are still in quebec . i repeat my question : what does the army have to do 10days from now that is more important if it 's not to help caregivers save lives ? hon . pablo rodriguez : madam chair , all the members of the military are still in quebec . they have done absolutely incredible work and are continuing to do so . the people at the canadian red cross are well-trained paid workers who can perform the same work in partnership with the members of the armed forces , who can stay in quebec as well . right now , we are working with the quebec government and discussing how we can keep the measure in place until september15 . mr. luc thriault : madam chair , our nurses and orderlies are exhausted . they 're at the end of their ropes . now is the time to thank them , not the time to turn our backs on them . it 's not the time for dilly-dallying or discussions . it 's the time to tell them that we will be there to help them until the end . i will repeat my question . what does the army have to do that is more important than helping caregivers save the lives of those who built quebec ? the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : the leader of the government in the house of commons is asked to keep his answer brief . hon . pablo rodriguez : madam chair , the government of canada is there and will continue to be there to help the people who built quebec . the government of canada will work with the quebec government to make that happen . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : we will go to the honourable member for red deermountain view , mr. dreeshen . mr. earl dreeshen ( red deermountain view , cpc ) : thank you so much . madam chair , on may 14 i asked the minister of agriculture when the liberal government would put aside its usual campaign rhetoric and recognize the very detrimental impact the carbon tax is having on farmers across this country . minister bibeau proudly noted that according to their data , the average cost of the carbon tax per farm across canada is $ 210 to $ 819 . we know that these numbers are completely unfounded and are not based on any factual evidence . the fact is that the liberal government 's own parliamentary budget officer has estimated that at $ 25 per tonne , the cost for an 855-acre crop farm in alberta is well over $ 6,000 . the office came up with that using the government 's statistics from the 2016 agricultural census . madam chair , the evidence is right in front of the minister . when will this liberal government come clean with canadians and recognize the disastrous impact the carbon tax is having on canada 's critical agriculture and agri-food sector ? hon . marie-claude bibeau ( minister of agriculture and agri-food ) : madam chair , our pollution pricing policy is designed to grow a clean economy . to support this sector , we have put in place the following measures . emissions from livestock and crop production are not priced . farm fuels and fuels from cardlock facilities are exempt , and there is a partial rebate for propane and natural gas used in commercial greenhouses . our government has been very open and transparent about our pollution pricing plan . we will do a review of our pollution pricing system in 2020 , focused on competitiveness issues in trade-exposed industries such as agriculture . it is also important to remember that this is about tackling climate change and that 100 % of the revenues stay in the province . we will continue to support our farmers and food processors as they provide an essential service across canada . mr. earl dreeshen : madam chair , minister bibeau keeps talking about wanting to protect canadians ' environment . well , the truth is that canada 's farmers , ranchers and processors have for years demonstrated their ability to deliver meaningful reductions in emissions and to safeguard the environment through the adoption of new technologies , education and innovative management practices , but the government ignores these efforts . will the minister at the very least admit to canadians that canadian farmers are unable to pass on the cost of the carbon tax to consumers and instead have to absorb those extra costs out of their own pockets ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : madam chair , allow me to explain again our government 's position on pollution pricing . the price and method were developed so we could build an increasingly clean economy . we put a number of measures in place to help the agriculture sector . emissions from animal and plant production are n't taxed . farm fuels and fuels delivered to off-farm points-of-sale are also mr. earl dreeshen : thank you , madam chair . i do have another question . the acting chair ( mrs. carol hughes ) : i am watching the time , mr. dreeshan . you have a couple more seconds . mr. earl dreeshen : thank you . madam chair , minister bibeau has repeatedly asked stakeholders to send her data about the impacts of the carbon tax on farmers , so this is exactly what they have been doing . the atlantic grains council , the grain farmers of ontario , producteurs de grains du qubec and the western canadian wheat growers association issued a joint statement at the beginning of this year in which they estimated that the cumulative indirect inflation of carbon tax on farm costs will be $ 14.50 an acre this year , with that cost escalating by more than double by 2022 to almost $ 30 an acre . these are huge numbers . why does the liberal government continue to ignore the facts presented to it and continue to misrepresent the truth to canadians ? hon . marie-claude bibeau : madame chair , i can assure you that we have paid close attention to all the information that has been provided to us and that our calculation was also based on this information provided by provinces and different stakeholders . mr. earl dreeshen : thank you hon . marie-claude bibeau : our government has been very open and transparent about our pollution pricing plan . the department used data from stakeholders and provinces mr. earl dreeshen : thank you very much , madam chair hon . marie-claude bibeau : as well as the 2019 agricultural tax data to estimate the average cost of pollution pricing associated with grain drying at up to 0.4 % of overall operating costs . it is important to remember that we have put in place many special provisions mr. earl dreeshen : madam chair hon . marie-claude bibeau : like exempting farm fuel and providing other financial supports for farmers . </s>
<s> summarize the debates on the governmental issue of allocating the fund and dealing with the systematic racism . </s> mr. yves-franois blanchet : if the idea is so good and wonderful , why not start over and open the dialogue now ? what 's stopping the prime minister from being a rallying point and inviting us to take to each other and resolve the problem , rather than saying that he is going to pack up his toys and go home ? the people with disabilities are the ones who will pay the price . where was the prime minister on october21,2019 ? he received a minority mandate from quebeckers and canadians . why is he behaving like something between a prime minister with a majority and a monarch by divine right ? right hon . justin trudeau : i 've heard the conservative party and the bloc qubcois throw their accusations around . they do n't point out that the house of commons did indeed give its consent to extend the mandate of the special committee on the covid-19 pandemic until the end of june . three parties agreed , which was the right thing to do in the context of this minority government . we 've been working with the other parties . however , as they did not get the results they wanted , they complained . unfortunately , they too are part of a minority parliament and must respect the voice of the majority of parliamentarians , just as we do . mr. yves-franois blanchet : i might have been tempted , but that 's unlikely to happen because the prime minister is n't me , he 's him . it 's therefore up to him to bring people together , open a dialogue and recall parliament . all we were asking for was the opportunity to talk for an hour or two . however , suddenly he does n't want to play anymore . it 's not working anymore , and there 's something a bit strange about that . in addition , the government wants to buy the right to interfere in provincial and quebec jurisdictions for $ 14billion . however , quebec and a number of provinces are refusing to allow it to interfere in their jurisdictions and are asking that this money be paid to them unconditionally . is the prime minister trying to take advantage of the crisis or is he trying to create a constitutional crisis ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , the safety of canadians is the responsibility of all levels of government . that 's why we have proposed a $ 14billion agreement to ensure that all canadians across the country experience a safe re-opening of the economy . this is a proposal that we are working on with the provinces because we know that there are needs across the country , including early childhood centres , screening and support for municipalities . the federal government wants to be there to help the provinces . the chair : we 'll now go to mr.singh . mr. jagmeet singh ( burnaby south , ndp ) : thank you very much , mr . chair . indigenous leaders have expressed a lack of confidence in the rcmp commissioner 's ability to tackle full-scale systemic racism , but the prime minister has expressed his confidence in the commissioner . what 's that based on ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , over the past two years , commissioner lucki has made significant strides forward on an issue where there is still much more to do . we know that systemic racism exists in all of our institutions across this country the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : this is the same rcmp commissioner who just recently said that they could n't explain what systemic racism was . now the prime minister says that he has confidence , when indigenous leaders express their lack of confidence . why does the prime minister believe that the rcmp commissioner can tackle systemic racism in the rcmp ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , systemic racism is something that touches every corner of our country , every corner of our institutions . it requires people to understand and move forward in coordinated ways with partners . the commissioner is committed to doing that , alongside members of our government . we will do that together and work with indigenous communities and black the chair : mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , recent events have made it abundantly clear that to tackle the systemic racism at the level of the rcmp , we need a full-scale overhaul of the rcmp . is the prime minister committed to a full-scale overhaul of the rcmp to root out systemic racism ? right hon . justin trudeau : as i 've said many times , mr . chair , i am committed to addressing systemic racism in this country and taking significant , bold actions to reduce the amount of discrimination that indigenous peoples , that racialized canadians face on a daily basis . we have much work to do , but we will do it together . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , black lives matter has been calling for governments to defund the police . what it 's saying is that we need to be better at where we spend our money , investing in communities and not policing . will the prime minister commit to a review of the rcmp budget to allocate resources to community services and not to policing ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , over the past years we have been investing more directly and more money in community organizations , in the black community , and working with indigenous partners on the path to reconciliation . we have been investing in the kinds of community-based programs and solutions that are part of the solution . we know there is much more to do , and we will continue to look at all of our expenditures to make sure we 're doing the right things . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , over the past few years , while the prime minister has been in office , the rcmp budget has increased by 31 % . more money is going towards policing . in recent events we 've seen people who needed a health care response to a health care crisis been killed by the rcmp . does the prime minister believe that we need to be investing in a health care response instead of a police response for people who are faced with a crisis ? </s>
<s> what did justintrudeau elaborate on the governmental fund when discussing the issue of allocating the fund and dealing with systematic racism ? </s> mr. yves-franois blanchet : if the idea is so good and wonderful , why not start over and open the dialogue now ? what 's stopping the prime minister from being a rallying point and inviting us to take to each other and resolve the problem , rather than saying that he is going to pack up his toys and go home ? the people with disabilities are the ones who will pay the price . where was the prime minister on october21,2019 ? he received a minority mandate from quebeckers and canadians . why is he behaving like something between a prime minister with a majority and a monarch by divine right ? right hon . justin trudeau : i 've heard the conservative party and the bloc qubcois throw their accusations around . they do n't point out that the house of commons did indeed give its consent to extend the mandate of the special committee on the covid-19 pandemic until the end of june . three parties agreed , which was the right thing to do in the context of this minority government . we 've been working with the other parties . however , as they did not get the results they wanted , they complained . unfortunately , they too are part of a minority parliament and must respect the voice of the majority of parliamentarians , just as we do . mr. yves-franois blanchet : i might have been tempted , but that 's unlikely to happen because the prime minister is n't me , he 's him . it 's therefore up to him to bring people together , open a dialogue and recall parliament . all we were asking for was the opportunity to talk for an hour or two . however , suddenly he does n't want to play anymore . it 's not working anymore , and there 's something a bit strange about that . in addition , the government wants to buy the right to interfere in provincial and quebec jurisdictions for $ 14billion . however , quebec and a number of provinces are refusing to allow it to interfere in their jurisdictions and are asking that this money be paid to them unconditionally . is the prime minister trying to take advantage of the crisis or is he trying to create a constitutional crisis ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr.chair , the safety of canadians is the responsibility of all levels of government . that 's why we have proposed a $ 14billion agreement to ensure that all canadians across the country experience a safe re-opening of the economy . this is a proposal that we are working on with the provinces because we know that there are needs across the country , including early childhood centres , screening and support for municipalities . the federal government wants to be there to help the provinces . </s>
<s> what did justintrudeau think of the revolution in those national institutions when talking about the governmental issue of allocating the fund and dealing with systematic racism ? </s> right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , over the past two years , commissioner lucki has made significant strides forward on an issue where there is still much more to do . we know that systemic racism exists in all of our institutions across this country the chair : we 'll now go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : this is the same rcmp commissioner who just recently said that they could n't explain what systemic racism was . now the prime minister says that he has confidence , when indigenous leaders express their lack of confidence . why does the prime minister believe that the rcmp commissioner can tackle systemic racism in the rcmp ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , systemic racism is something that touches every corner of our country , every corner of our institutions . it requires people to understand and move forward in coordinated ways with partners . the commissioner is committed to doing that , alongside members of our government . we will do that together and work with indigenous communities and black the chair : mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , recent events have made it abundantly clear that to tackle the systemic racism at the level of the rcmp , we need a full-scale overhaul of the rcmp . is the prime minister committed to a full-scale overhaul of the rcmp to root out systemic racism ? right hon . justin trudeau : as i 've said many times , mr . chair , i am committed to addressing systemic racism in this country and taking significant , bold actions to reduce the amount of discrimination that indigenous peoples , that racialized canadians face on a daily basis . we have much work to do , but we will do it together . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , black lives matter has been calling for governments to defund the police . what it 's saying is that we need to be better at where we spend our money , investing in communities and not policing . will the prime minister commit to a review of the rcmp budget to allocate resources to community services and not to policing ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , over the past years we have been investing more directly and more money in community organizations , in the black community , and working with indigenous partners on the path to reconciliation . we have been investing in the kinds of community-based programs and solutions that are part of the solution . we know there is much more to do , and we will continue to look at all of our expenditures to make sure we 're doing the right things . mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , over the past few years , while the prime minister has been in office , the rcmp budget has increased by 31 % . more money is going towards policing . in recent events we 've seen people who needed a health care response to a health care crisis been killed by the rcmp . does the prime minister believe that we need to be investing in a health care response instead of a police response for people who are faced with a crisis ? </s>
<s> what did the group talk about the uncertainty of canadian economy and what the government should do during the special period ? </s> mr. jagmeet singh : mr . chair , with regard to the cerb extension , can the prime minister guarantee that everyone who is receiving cerb payments now will continue to do so without any gaps throughout the summer ? right hon . justin trudeau : mr . chair , i am happy to highlight that many canadians who were on the cerb are now returning to work . many more who are on the cerb now will be returning to work in the coming weeks . we know that as the economy gets back to work , people will want to the chair : we will go back to mr. singh . mr. jagmeet singh : can the prime minister assure people who need it that they will continue to receive the cerb over the summer , yes or no ? right hon . justin trudeau : we are very pleased to point out that we are going to extend the canada emergency response benefit for at least another eight weeks , because a lot of people are going to need it . even if they want to work , there are n't enough jobs for everyone . so we 'll be there for them , as we have been from the beginning . the chair : we 're going to pause and suspend proceedings just for a few moments to allow our support staff to substitute for one another in a healthy and safe way . we 'll now proceed with ms. mcleod . mrs. cathy mcleod ( kamloopsthompsoncariboo , cpc ) : mr . chair , it was really a surprise in the middle of a pandemic to see the prime minister at his first campaign stop last week in ottawa . certainly the game plan has become very transparent . he has a daily report show and he wants to sideline parliament , dominate the news cycle and keep everyone in the dark about the state of the economy . according to the parliamentary budget officer , there is no reason that he can not provide the fiscal update during the covid-19 pandemic , and the pbo has published a number of reports himself . why wo n't the prime minister provide a fiscal update so we can all understand the state of our economy , or is that just not part of his campaign playbook ? hon . mona fortier ( minister of middle class prosperity and associate minister of finance ) : thank you , mr . chair . canada 's economy is in a period of extraordinary uncertainty due to covid-19 . we 've been clear about that . we will continue to be open and transparent about the actions that we are taking to support families , businesses , workers , our health care system and our economy . this includes biweekly reports to parliament on the full cost and status of our economic measures . once it is possible to provide a clear economic projection , we will provide an update . we are in this together , and we are prepared to do whatever is necessary to support canadians . mrs. cathy mcleod : chair , canada 's economy was in trouble prior to the covid , with some of the worst numbers since 2009 . government revenues in march dropped by 7.2 % , and it 's shameful and , quite frankly , it 's outrageous that they refuse to provide parliament and canadians with an economic update . households during this challenging time know how much money is coming in and they know how much money is going out . the picture is not pretty , but they know what the picture is . can the finance minister at least reveal the projected revenue decline in quarters one and two ? hon . mona fortier : the canadian economy is going through a period of extraordinary uncertainty due to covid-19 . we 've known this for three months . we 've continued to be open and transparent about the measures we 've put in place for canadians , workers and businesses . in fact , we have reported biweekly to parliament on the total cost and status of our plan 's measures . as soon as it 's possible to provide clear economic projections , we will provide a comprehensive update to canadians the chair : we go back to ms. mcleod . mrs. cathy mcleod : other governments have managed to provide updates for their citizens and carry out their responsibilities , but of course this government has sidelined parliament with simply a question-but-no-answer period . let 's try something else . the forestry industry was in crisis even before the pandemic , with mills closing down and thousands of jobs lost . eight weeks ago , minister freeland said , i have had many discussions with leaders in our forestry sector and the provinces about what we can do to support the industry today . meanwhile , we 've had support going to the arts and we 've had support going to fisheries , just to name a few , but arguably for the industry that was having some of the most numerous challenges , it has been radio silence . that was eight weeks ago today . can the government at least commit to releasing an updated softwood lumber transition plan before we rise ? hon . seamus o'regan ( minister of natural resources ) : mr . chair , we remain committed , of course , to the forestry industry and seeing it through this pandemic and this very uncertain time . the expanding market opportunities program , for instance , has helped canada 's forestry sector diversify , create jobs and open new markets . we 've had new construction projects that are active today , using canadian wood in key markets like korea , japan , china and the united states . tomorrow this house will vote on our government 's investment of $ 20.97 million for this program . it 's part of our budget 2019 commitment to invest $ 251 million over three years , and i hope the opposition will support us in that . mrs. cathy mcleod : it was stated in a major newspaper this morning that this government is like a sexy sports carvroom , vroom , vroombut with a history of breakdowns and major repairs . i think that might describe what has been happening . for forestry , it has been eight weeks and there has been nothing . there is another area that deputy prime minister freeland did talk about . we were talking about the u.s. softwood lumber duties that are being held in the united states . it 's billions of dollars being held with the u.s. treasury . in april , she acknowledged that these duties are a real issue for the softwood lumber industry . what 's been done since that time ? hon . david lametti ( minister of justice and attorney general of canada ) : mr . chair , canada 's forestry industry supports good middle-class jobs in communities across our country . the sector is also an essential link in the medical equipment supply chain , and we thank them for all the work they 're doing . we 're aware of the immense pressures faced by this sector , especially at this time , and deputy prime minister freeland and others are taking that seriously and working through this issue . as our government has said repeatedly , we firmly believe that the u.s. duties on canadian softwood lumber are unfair and unwarranted , and we will pursue all means in order to the chair : before continuing , i want to remind honourable members who are at home to make sure that the boom on their headsets is down . it just makes a better pickup . we heard everything , but it was a little distant . that 's for everyone 's benefit . we 're now going to continue with mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell ( louis-saint-laurent , cpc ) : mr.chair , before i ask my question , i 'd like to pay tribute to the minister of justice , particularly to his versatility . today , he talked about forests . yesterday , the minister of justice talked about davie and indigenous affairs . really , this minister is very versatile . my question is directly for the minister of finance . i like mr.lametti very much , but i 'd like mr.morneau to answer my question . yesterday , in a senate parliamentary committee , the minister of finance half-opened the door to an economic update . based on what he said , it seems that , as we speak , a committee of the department of finance is working on an economic update . could mr.morneau tell canadians when he is going to table this economic update ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , as we know , the canadian economy is going through a period of extraordinary uncertainty . as soon as it 's possible to provide clear economic projections , we will provide a full update to canadians . right now , we can say that we have supported workers , businesses and canadians with the emergency measures we have put in place . we will continue to do so , because we need to be sure that canadians can get through this crisis . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , i thought it was too good to be true . the minister of finance is opening the door , and the minister of small business is closing it . we do n't know when the economic update will take place , yet all across canada , provinces are doing economic updates . could mr.morneau explain to canadians why he is unable to give one ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , since the beginning of the crisis , we have implemented the economic action plan to respond to covid-19 , and we 've provided immediate assistance to canadians , businesses and workers . over 2.5million jobs were protected by the canada emergency wage subsidy . in addition , 8.4million canadians the chair : we are returning to mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , next friday , the quebec minister of finance , ericgirard , will give an economic update . if ericgirard can give one for quebec , why ca n't billmorneau give one for canada ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , once again , we have been open and transparent from the outset . we have devoted our energy to support canadians , workers and businesses . we will continue to do so . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , i can not judge the quality of the work done by the provinces , but what i do know is that quebec , saskatchewan and newfoundland have also made efforts to support their residents economically . those provinces are able to table economic updates . yesterday , saskatchewan even tabled a budget . why is bill morneau unable to table an economic update for all canadians ? hon . mona fortier : let me repeat for my hon . colleague that we are going through extraordinarily uncertain times . we have continued to be open and transparent . we have reported biweekly to parliament on the total cost and status of the measures in our economic response plan . once again , as soon as clear economic projections can be provided , we will provide an update the chair : mr.deltell has the floor . mr. grard deltell : the minister talks about the total cost of the government 's economic expenditures . so i ask the question : so far , over the past three months , how much has the pandemic cost canadians ? hon . mona fortier : as i said earlier , it is important to note that we have put forward measures , including the wage subsidy , which have helped more than 2.5million the chair : mr.deltell has the floor . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , i have been trying for four minutes to get anything remotely resembling an answer , and i 'm getting absolutely nothing . i am not asking questions for myself ; i am asking questions for canadians . why are the government and the minister of finance , bill morneau , not able to table an economic update when some provinces are able to ? hon . mona fortier : once again , i would like to remind my hon . colleague that we have provided interest-free loans to businesses . more than 669,000loans have been approved . we have continued to support businesses and canadians during this time the chair : mr.deltell , you have time for a very brief question . mr. grard deltell : the only thing that distinguishes the provinces that table economic updates and the current government is political will . why does bill morneau not have the political will to tell canadians the truth ? </s>
<s> what did cathy mcleod think of the forestry industry when talking about the uncertainty of canadian economy and what the government should do during the special period ? </s> mrs. cathy mcleod : other governments have managed to provide updates for their citizens and carry out their responsibilities , but of course this government has sidelined parliament with simply a question-but-no-answer period . let 's try something else . the forestry industry was in crisis even before the pandemic , with mills closing down and thousands of jobs lost . eight weeks ago , minister freeland said , i have had many discussions with leaders in our forestry sector and the provinces about what we can do to support the industry today . meanwhile , we 've had support going to the arts and we 've had support going to fisheries , just to name a few , but arguably for the industry that was having some of the most numerous challenges , it has been radio silence . that was eight weeks ago today . can the government at least commit to releasing an updated softwood lumber transition plan before we rise ? hon . seamus o'regan ( minister of natural resources ) : mr . chair , we remain committed , of course , to the forestry industry and seeing it through this pandemic and this very uncertain time . the expanding market opportunities program , for instance , has helped canada 's forestry sector diversify , create jobs and open new markets . we 've had new construction projects that are active today , using canadian wood in key markets like korea , japan , china and the united states . tomorrow this house will vote on our government 's investment of $ 20.97 million for this program . it 's part of our budget 2019 commitment to invest $ 251 million over three years , and i hope the opposition will support us in that . mrs. cathy mcleod : it was stated in a major newspaper this morning that this government is like a sexy sports carvroom , vroom , vroombut with a history of breakdowns and major repairs . i think that might describe what has been happening . for forestry , it has been eight weeks and there has been nothing . there is another area that deputy prime minister freeland did talk about . we were talking about the u.s. softwood lumber duties that are being held in the united states . it 's billions of dollars being held with the u.s. treasury . in april , she acknowledged that these duties are a real issue for the softwood lumber industry . what 's been done since that time ? </s>
<s> what did mona fortier think of the governmental support when discussing the uncertainty of canadian economy ? </s> the chair : before continuing , i want to remind honourable members who are at home to make sure that the boom on their headsets is down . it just makes a better pickup . we heard everything , but it was a little distant . that 's for everyone 's benefit . we 're now going to continue with mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell ( louis-saint-laurent , cpc ) : mr.chair , before i ask my question , i 'd like to pay tribute to the minister of justice , particularly to his versatility . today , he talked about forests . yesterday , the minister of justice talked about davie and indigenous affairs . really , this minister is very versatile . my question is directly for the minister of finance . i like mr.lametti very much , but i 'd like mr.morneau to answer my question . yesterday , in a senate parliamentary committee , the minister of finance half-opened the door to an economic update . based on what he said , it seems that , as we speak , a committee of the department of finance is working on an economic update . could mr.morneau tell canadians when he is going to table this economic update ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , as we know , the canadian economy is going through a period of extraordinary uncertainty . as soon as it 's possible to provide clear economic projections , we will provide a full update to canadians . right now , we can say that we have supported workers , businesses and canadians with the emergency measures we have put in place . we will continue to do so , because we need to be sure that canadians can get through this crisis . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , i thought it was too good to be true . the minister of finance is opening the door , and the minister of small business is closing it . we do n't know when the economic update will take place , yet all across canada , provinces are doing economic updates . could mr.morneau explain to canadians why he is unable to give one ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , since the beginning of the crisis , we have implemented the economic action plan to respond to covid-19 , and we 've provided immediate assistance to canadians , businesses and workers . over 2.5million jobs were protected by the canada emergency wage subsidy . in addition , 8.4million canadians the chair : we are returning to mr.deltell . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , next friday , the quebec minister of finance , ericgirard , will give an economic update . if ericgirard can give one for quebec , why ca n't billmorneau give one for canada ? hon . mona fortier : mr.chair , once again , we have been open and transparent from the outset . we have devoted our energy to support canadians , workers and businesses . we will continue to do so . mr. grard deltell : mr.chair , i can not judge the quality of the work done by the provinces , but what i do know is that quebec , saskatchewan and newfoundland have also made efforts to support their residents economically . those provinces are able to table economic updates . yesterday , saskatchewan even tabled a budget . why is bill morneau unable to table an economic update for all canadians ? </s>
<s> summarize the measures to guarantee social stability , including reducing the rent for those individual businesses and strictly restraining the weapon . </s> the chair : we will now continue with mr. saroya . mr. bob saroya ( markhamunionville , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . covid-19 has sparked and spurred anti-asian racism . these are not just racist comments online ; asian canadians have been attacked . what is the government doing to combat anti-asian racism ? hon . bardish chagger ( minister of diversity and inclusion and youth ) : mr . chair , since our government took office in 2015 , we have been making investments and working with communities . the difference between our government and the previous government is that we will actually consult with canadians , including black canadians , including asian canadians , to respond to the challenges , including with an anti-racism secretariat and an anti-racism strategy . it will take all of us . i appreciate the member 's question , so that we can also work together . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , one business owner i know in markham has operated for 20 years . now she 's looking at over $ 9,000 in rent due on june 24 . covid-19 has crippled her sales and she 's going to go out of business . her landlord has no interest in the canada emergency commercial rent assistance program . how can the government say this program is working ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , this program was made possible by working with the provinces , and we will continue to encourage landlords and tenants to work together to make sure they have relief for this very difficult time in which they 're living . we 're continuing to monitor the cecra program and we will make it possible for businesses to have access to the program . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , the government business rent relief program has been a total disaster . even the government 's own numbers show it is a failure . as of june 8 , less than 2 % of the $ 3 billion budgeted has been spent . what is it going to take for the government to admit that the program is a disaster and needs changes ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we know our government has been working closely with the provinces and territories to deliver the canada emergency commercial rent assistance . although the tenant-landlord relationship is ultimately the responsibility of the provinces and territories , our government has stepped up to provide support through the tools we have and through cmhc so that small businesses can get the rent relief they need . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , according to the government , there are around 1.1 million small businesses in canada . at committee , we were told only around 5,500 of them are receiving covid-19 rent relief . that number is shameful . when will the liberal government wake up and make the changes ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we welcome the steps some provinces and territories have taken to further protect commercial tenants . we will continue to monitor this program closely and ensure that canada 's small businesses are supported during this challenging time . we will continue to monitor to see the chair : we 'll go back to mr. saroya . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , there was no answer . when can the government make these changes ? hon . mary ng ( minister of small business , export promotion and international trade ) : mr . chair , i want to assure the honourable colleague that we are doing everything and will continue to do everything to help small businesses in our country . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , on may 27 the cbsa seized 65 small handguns at pearson airport , the largest firearms seizure on record . it is clear that smuggled handguns are the weapon of choice for criminals . why is the prime minister focusing on an ineffective municipal ban ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : mr . chair , i would point out that gun violence in any of our communities is unacceptable , and it 's important that governments and communities take steps to prevent guns from getting into the hands of criminals . that 's why we do important work at our border to keep guns from being smuggled into our country , but it also necessitates additional work . i do n't think you can talk about gun violence without talking about stronger gun control . that 's why our government has taken a very strong position and will strengthen gun control to keep canadians safe . the chair : mr. saroya , you may have a 10-second question , if that 's possible , please . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , covid-19 has not stopped gun violence in the gta . my constituents are concerned about shootings minutes away from their homes . we know the liberals ' gun ban wo n't change anything , but a focus on smuggled guns and criminals will . when will they make that change ? </s>
<s> why did bob saroya disagree with the government when talking about reducing the rent for those individual businesses ? </s> mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , one business owner i know in markham has operated for 20 years . now she 's looking at over $ 9,000 in rent due on june 24 . covid-19 has crippled her sales and she 's going to go out of business . her landlord has no interest in the canada emergency commercial rent assistance program . how can the government say this program is working ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , this program was made possible by working with the provinces , and we will continue to encourage landlords and tenants to work together to make sure they have relief for this very difficult time in which they 're living . we 're continuing to monitor the cecra program and we will make it possible for businesses to have access to the program . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , the government business rent relief program has been a total disaster . even the government 's own numbers show it is a failure . as of june 8 , less than 2 % of the $ 3 billion budgeted has been spent . what is it going to take for the government to admit that the program is a disaster and needs changes ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we know our government has been working closely with the provinces and territories to deliver the canada emergency commercial rent assistance . although the tenant-landlord relationship is ultimately the responsibility of the provinces and territories , our government has stepped up to provide support through the tools we have and through cmhc so that small businesses can get the rent relief they need . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , according to the government , there are around 1.1 million small businesses in canada . at committee , we were told only around 5,500 of them are receiving covid-19 rent relief . that number is shameful . when will the liberal government wake up and make the changes ? </s>
<s> what did bill blair respond to the firearms seizure issue at pearson airport when talking about the measures to guarantee social stability ? </s> mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , on may 27 the cbsa seized 65 small handguns at pearson airport , the largest firearms seizure on record . it is clear that smuggled handguns are the weapon of choice for criminals . why is the prime minister focusing on an ineffective municipal ban ? hon . bill blair ( minister of public safety and emergency preparedness ) : mr . chair , i would point out that gun violence in any of our communities is unacceptable , and it 's important that governments and communities take steps to prevent guns from getting into the hands of criminals . that 's why we do important work at our border to keep guns from being smuggled into our country , but it also necessitates additional work . i do n't think you can talk about gun violence without talking about stronger gun control . that 's why our government has taken a very strong position and will strengthen gun control to keep canadians safe . the chair : mr. saroya , you may have a 10-second question , if that 's possible , please . mr. bob saroya : mr . chair , covid-19 has not stopped gun violence in the gta . my constituents are concerned about shootings minutes away from their homes . we know the liberals ' gun ban wo n't change anything , but a focus on smuggled guns and criminals will . when will they make that change ? </s>
<s> summarize the inquiries towards service canada and their cooperation with quebec . </s> mr. john williamson ( new brunswick southwest , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . i will say that this is no substitute for parliament , but i appreciate the opportunity . new brunswick families and businesses are rapidly making adjustments to manage and live with the coronavirus pandemic . businesses here are opening and services are being offered . families are preparing for summer and even planning ahead for a new school year in september . we have a lot of work ahead of us . one notable absence is service canada . when does the government plan on opening its service counters to assist canadians again ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : mr . chair , our government is committed to ensuring that canadians continue to have access to the benefits that they rely on through service canada . we have redeployed over 3,000 additional staff to ensure that canadians continue to have access to their benefits . we 've established a 1,500-agent call centre to make sure that people can get access to the phone lines to get the help they need . mr. john williamson : service canada is about more than providing covid-19 information and benefits . provincial governments are working hard to adjust to canada 's new normal by opening up businesses and front-line government services . when will we see service canada play its role and open its service counters in our communities ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we 're currently working with our world-class public health experts to determine how best to reopen the service canada network for the public . make no mistake : our service canada employees have gone above and beyond to ensure that canadians continue to have access to the services that they rely on and the benefits that they need . mr. john williamson : please do n't hide behind health experts when the prime minister is appearing in the middle of large protests , yet is afraid to bring back the parliament of canada to do its business . in fact , the new brunswick legislature is open for regular business . bills are being studied , opposition input is being heard and mlas are voting on legislation , not rubber-stamping government bills . by comparison , our parliament is stuck in pretending it can not function like other law-making assemblies . canadians are in the dark about our country 's finances . when will the government table an economic update so taxpayers understand what was spent , what is owed by our kids and grandchildren , and what the government 's fiscal footing looks like ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , nobody 's hiding . nobody 's doing anything like that . the only reason my colleague is able to ask a question and i 'm able to answer his question is that he 's right there on the screen . we have this hybrid format that cares for mps across the country , not only the ones sitting in the house . mr. john williamson : this is no substitute for parliament . i will ask my question again . when will the government table an economic update so that taxpayers understand what was spent , what is owed by our kids and grandchildren , and what the government 's fiscal footing looks like in today 's environment ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , i thank my honourable colleague for his question . canada 's economy is still in a period of extraordinary uncertainty due to covid-19 . we have been open and transparent about the measures we have been providing to support families , businesses and workers . even our health care the chair : we 'll go back to mr. williamson . mr. john williamson : except you have not . the auditor general is underfunded . we have no idea about the total of government spending . again i will ask when the government will table an economic update so that we can have an understanding of what the government 's fiscal footing looks like . hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we have included biweekly reports to parliament on the full cost and status of our economic response plan measures since the beginning . i have said , and i will continue to say , that when it is possible to provide a clear economic projection , we will provide an update . mr. john williamson : what is the full cost to date of the government 's covid-19 relief measures , as the minister just claimed the government has provided to parliament ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we have provided support for workers , and 2.5 million canadians have been helped through the canadian wage subsidy . we have provided businesses with some loans , and 669,000 businesses have applied for these loans . even for the cerb , we have over eight million canadians who have applied . the chair : we will now continue with mr.bergeron . mr. stphane bergeron : mr.chair , as the leader of the bloc qubcois mentioned a few moments ago , the government promised $ 14billion to quebec and the provinces , but in targeted transfers . that is very little compared to the considerable expenses incurred to deal with the current crisis . but quebec and the provinces do n't just want this money to be transferred unconditionally , they also want a real discussion on a permanent increase in health care transfers . premierlegault was rightly concerned about the feds ' interference into provincial jurisdictions . the federal government , which does not manage any hospitals or long-term care centres , must stop playing armchair quarterback and transfer the money to the only governments with jurisdiction over health , that is , quebec and the provinces . will it do so without delay and without nitpicking ? the honourable patty hajdu ( minister of health ) : mr.chair , we know that the government of quebec is working hard to ensure the safety of quebeckers and we are here to support them . as part of this co-operation , we have developed health and safety recommendations for workplaces , we have purchased medical equipment for workers and we have supported the province in developing its reopening program . we are continuing this important partnership to ensure the safety of quebeckers and all canadians . mr. stphane bergeron : the co-operation is so effective that the money is staying in the federal government 's coffers . in fact , when the federal government wants to impose conditions , it always takes longer . we see it with housing , for which quebec has not received a dime of the $ 1.4billion it is owed . we have also seen it with infrastructure funds , particularly for public transit , water systems and water treatment . the health crisis is now . the needs are now . the much needed reopening of our economy is now . will the government finally transfer the money without messing around or quibbling ? hon . pablo rodriguez : i am pleased to confirm to my colleague that there is no messing around , no quibbling , nothing of the kind . there is co-operation between two levels of government . it is natural to have discussions with all the provinces and with quebec . i myself am taking part in some discussions and several of my colleagues are taking part in others . there is a clear willingness on the part of the federal government to co-operate with quebec and all the provinces . that is what we are doing and that is perhaps what the bloc qubcois does not like . it likes bickering , but for the time being , there is none . mr. stphane bergeron : we do n't want to bicker , we want the money to be paid out . it is not complicated , for heaven 's sake ! we do not want a blank cheque . right now , the money remains in the federal government 's coffers . there is $ 1.4billion that should be paid to quebec for social housing and is sitting in the federal government 's coffers . we are waiting for money for water treatment and water systems , but it is sitting in the federal government 's coffers . it 's almost july . we are wasting precious months for construction . what is the government waiting for to pay out the money so that we can get our economy rolling ? hon . pablo rodriguez : the federal government is a very active partner . we are discussing and working with quebec on infrastructure projects . we are continuing our discussions and negotiations on the housing agreement . nothing is at a standstill . we are discussing and co-operating for the well-being of all quebeckers . mr. stphane bergeron : madamchair , things are definitely at a standstill , because the money is owed and has not been paid out . months are going by while construction is not taking place . we need to reopen the economy . we need more flexibility in the gas tax program and quebec 's contribution to allow municipalities to undertake work on city halls , community centres and fire stations . we need the federal government to contribute to funding public transit operations , which have become a real financial drain because of the drop in ridership . what is the federal government waiting for to provide real help instead of just talking ? </s>
<s> why did john williamson disagree with the government when putting forward inquiries towards service canada ? </s> mr. john williamson ( new brunswick southwest , cpc ) : thank you , mr . chair . i will say that this is no substitute for parliament , but i appreciate the opportunity . new brunswick families and businesses are rapidly making adjustments to manage and live with the coronavirus pandemic . businesses here are opening and services are being offered . families are preparing for summer and even planning ahead for a new school year in september . we have a lot of work ahead of us . one notable absence is service canada . when does the government plan on opening its service counters to assist canadians again ? hon . ahmed hussen ( minister of families , children and social development ) : mr . chair , our government is committed to ensuring that canadians continue to have access to the benefits that they rely on through service canada . we have redeployed over 3,000 additional staff to ensure that canadians continue to have access to their benefits . we 've established a 1,500-agent call centre to make sure that people can get access to the phone lines to get the help they need . mr. john williamson : service canada is about more than providing covid-19 information and benefits . provincial governments are working hard to adjust to canada 's new normal by opening up businesses and front-line government services . when will we see service canada play its role and open its service counters in our communities ? hon . ahmed hussen : mr . chair , we 're currently working with our world-class public health experts to determine how best to reopen the service canada network for the public . make no mistake : our service canada employees have gone above and beyond to ensure that canadians continue to have access to the services that they rely on and the benefits that they need . mr. john williamson : please do n't hide behind health experts when the prime minister is appearing in the middle of large protests , yet is afraid to bring back the parliament of canada to do its business . in fact , the new brunswick legislature is open for regular business . bills are being studied , opposition input is being heard and mlas are voting on legislation , not rubber-stamping government bills . by comparison , our parliament is stuck in pretending it can not function like other law-making assemblies . canadians are in the dark about our country 's finances . when will the government table an economic update so taxpayers understand what was spent , what is owed by our kids and grandchildren , and what the government 's fiscal footing looks like ? hon . pablo rodriguez : mr . chair , nobody 's hiding . nobody 's doing anything like that . the only reason my colleague is able to ask a question and i 'm able to answer his question is that he 's right there on the screen . we have this hybrid format that cares for mps across the country , not only the ones sitting in the house . mr. john williamson : this is no substitute for parliament . i will ask my question again . when will the government table an economic update so that taxpayers understand what was spent , what is owed by our kids and grandchildren , and what the government 's fiscal footing looks like in today 's environment ? hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , i thank my honourable colleague for his question . canada 's economy is still in a period of extraordinary uncertainty due to covid-19 . we have been open and transparent about the measures we have been providing to support families , businesses and workers . even our health care the chair : we 'll go back to mr. williamson . mr. john williamson : except you have not . the auditor general is underfunded . we have no idea about the total of government spending . again i will ask when the government will table an economic update so that we can have an understanding of what the government 's fiscal footing looks like . hon . mona fortier : mr . chair , we have included biweekly reports to parliament on the full cost and status of our economic response plan measures since the beginning . i have said , and i will continue to say , that when it is possible to provide a clear economic projection , we will provide an update . mr. john williamson : what is the full cost to date of the government 's covid-19 relief measures , as the minister just claimed the government has provided to parliament ? </s>
<s> what did bergeron think of the cooperation between two levels of government when discussing the inquiries towards service canada and their cooperation with quebec ? </s> the chair : we will now continue with mr.bergeron . mr. stphane bergeron : mr.chair , as the leader of the bloc qubcois mentioned a few moments ago , the government promised $ 14billion to quebec and the provinces , but in targeted transfers . that is very little compared to the considerable expenses incurred to deal with the current crisis . but quebec and the provinces do n't just want this money to be transferred unconditionally , they also want a real discussion on a permanent increase in health care transfers . premierlegault was rightly concerned about the feds ' interference into provincial jurisdictions . the federal government , which does not manage any hospitals or long-term care centres , must stop playing armchair quarterback and transfer the money to the only governments with jurisdiction over health , that is , quebec and the provinces . will it do so without delay and without nitpicking ? the honourable patty hajdu ( minister of health ) : mr.chair , we know that the government of quebec is working hard to ensure the safety of quebeckers and we are here to support them . as part of this co-operation , we have developed health and safety recommendations for workplaces , we have purchased medical equipment for workers and we have supported the province in developing its reopening program . we are continuing this important partnership to ensure the safety of quebeckers and all canadians . mr. stphane bergeron : the co-operation is so effective that the money is staying in the federal government 's coffers . in fact , when the federal government wants to impose conditions , it always takes longer . we see it with housing , for which quebec has not received a dime of the $ 1.4billion it is owed . we have also seen it with infrastructure funds , particularly for public transit , water systems and water treatment . the health crisis is now . the needs are now . the much needed reopening of our economy is now . will the government finally transfer the money without messing around or quibbling ? hon . pablo rodriguez : i am pleased to confirm to my colleague that there is no messing around , no quibbling , nothing of the kind . there is co-operation between two levels of government . it is natural to have discussions with all the provinces and with quebec . i myself am taking part in some discussions and several of my colleagues are taking part in others . there is a clear willingness on the part of the federal government to co-operate with quebec and all the provinces . that is what we are doing and that is perhaps what the bloc qubcois does not like . it likes bickering , but for the time being , there is none . mr. stphane bergeron : we do n't want to bicker , we want the money to be paid out . it is not complicated , for heaven 's sake ! we do not want a blank cheque . right now , the money remains in the federal government 's coffers . there is $ 1.4billion that should be paid to quebec for social housing and is sitting in the federal government 's coffers . we are waiting for money for water treatment and water systems , but it is sitting in the federal government 's coffers . it 's almost july . we are wasting precious months for construction . what is the government waiting for to pay out the money so that we can get our economy rolling ? hon . pablo rodriguez : the federal government is a very active partner . we are discussing and working with quebec on infrastructure projects . we are continuing our discussions and negotiations on the housing agreement . nothing is at a standstill . we are discussing and co-operating for the well-being of all quebeckers . mr. stphane bergeron : madamchair , things are definitely at a standstill , because the money is owed and has not been paid out . months are going by while construction is not taking place . we need to reopen the economy . we need more flexibility in the gas tax program and quebec 's contribution to allow municipalities to undertake work on city halls , community centres and fire stations . we need the federal government to contribute to funding public transit operations , which have become a real financial drain because of the drop in ridership . what is the federal government waiting for to provide real help instead of just talking ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> user interface : marketing : user interface : mm uh . marketing : we 're the first . user interface : mm . we 're the first ones . marketing : marketing expert , yes . project manager : so you found your spots . user interface : move to the meeting room . marketing : bling bling . yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : right . project manager : okay . marketing : uh where has my screen gone ? user interface : hello , good day . marketing : industrial designer : oh yeah , we have to talk in english , marketing : yeah . my screen is gone . project manager : it 's called black . marketing : oh . user interface : kick-off meeting , wow . it 's uh looks uh nice . industrial designer : i 'm afraid i 'm a bit slow for this stuff uh . project manager : okay . marketing : industrial designer : i 'm afraid i 'm a bit too slow . i do n't know how much preparation you guys did , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but not a lot . marketing : yeah . user interface : no , it 's it was uh not enough . project manager : you see this beautiful presentation . marketing : yeah . very nice . project manager : okay let 's get started . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh i sort of prepared this . user interface : project manager : uh opening acquaintance , tool training , uh how to use the things here . uh project plan discussion , and yeah then the rest of the meeting . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : um we 're supposed to develop a new remote control , that 's both original , trendy and user-friendly . so , marketing : project manager : hope you have good ideas . i do n't . user interface : i did my best . project manager : um we 're work we 're working uh from top to bottom . uh functional design , industrial designer : not yet . project manager : then we do some in individual work , then we have a meeting to discuss the results , etcetera etcetera . and at the end of the day we should have a prototype drawn up . uh we have available the smart board and the whiteboard . um uh we should take some practice . i have some instructions now to do that . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh well you know how to the documents work . so uh this for toolbar . you see it next . um we have a pen . and we can use this pen to perform . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : operations . project manager : so user interface : project manager : it does n't always work . yes . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay so you can draw . marketing : draw . alright . project manager : okay and in the format menu you can select colour and line width , etcetera etcetera . okay ? marketing : 'kay . project manager : uh okay . each of you can uh take some practice and you should draw an animal . uh you should explain uh with different colours and with different pen widths . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : and you should explain why you draw that particular animal . user interface : okay . marketing : do n't take up too much space . project manager : so , julian . user interface : um yeah . industrial designer : different pen widths , how do you do that ? user interface : project manager : uh with the format menu . industrial designer : oh okay . project manager : and use different colours etcetera . user interface : it 's a giraffe . yeah . project manager : and what 's that supposed to be ? industrial designer : are you serious ? marketing : should it be one project manager : oh yeah . oh yeah user interface : okay . project manager : four legs . uh-huh . marketing : giraffe 's yellow . user interface : uh it needs some uh some yellow uh oh format . marketing : can you use one blank sheet per drawing ? or project manager : yeah . marketing : so y you must save it at the end and then project manager : you can press the next button , which is uh yeah . i 'll show you . user interface : that 's some spots . industrial designer : i in the file option menu . project manager : yeah . in file menu . marketing : okay , then m make a new one . user interface : industrial designer : how much time do we have to draw anyway ? project manager : yeah . user interface : industrial designer : 'cause i can take forever on this . user interface : okay . do i have to explain uh why i chose this uh this animal ? project manager : yeah . user interface : i think it 's a it 's a great animal . project manager : what is it ? industrial designer : marketing : user interface : it 's a it 's a giraffe . project manager : a giraffe okay . yeah i see a long neck user interface : yeah , that 's a project manager : but marketing : it 's more like a dinosaur . user interface : um okay i 'll will give it an uh an eye . project manager : okay . that 's nice of you . marketing : uh . user interface : hey . come on . marketing : some leaf to eat . user interface : project manager : okay . yeah pretty good . uh could you press the next uh user interface : the next ? yes . project manager : okay . then uh . user interface : here you go . marketing : yeah . thanks . yeah . user interface : industrial designer : is this part of our a acquai or introduction to each other ? project manager : yeah sorry , introduction and get acquainted marketing : uh project manager : and industrial designer : alright . project manager : that 's the idea , so industrial designer : uh . your line broke . marketing : yeah . alright . user interface : project manager : yeah it 's a bit slow , marketing : it 's not that fast . project manager : so marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : i see . it misses the spot . project manager : pressure . industrial designer : i 'm guessing a turtle . no . i 'm kidding . marketing : i say good guess . uh project manager : why a turtle ? industrial designer : because of its shell . marketing : because it 's slow . project manager : it 's slow . user interface : 'cause it 's so project manager : you were slow too user interface : 'cause it 's green . project manager : so marketing : yeah i was a bit slow too . industrial designer : dude you 're a good drawer . marketing : so uh some other line uh width uh industrial designer : do you have a turtle pet ? project manager : user interface : marketing : no . industrial designer : uh okay . marketing : i dunno . does it have legs ? industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah . project manager : yeah sure . marketing : yeah ? project manager : yeah not exactly legs but more like fins marketing : industrial designer : stumpy stuff . project manager : or marketing : it 's more like a tank . yeah that 's fins industrial designer : they kind of l look like mole legs . with sharp nails on . marketing : but i do n't know where . project manager : yeah . marketing : some spots . ah some eye . project manager : yeah marketing : project manager : it 's l looks very friendly . marketing : yeah that 's a fr friendly turtle i guess . industrial designer : marketing : yeah well i think it 's uh fair enough . project manager : yeah okay . industrial designer : a little tail maybe . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : right . i do n't know what the position is . does it have ears ? industrial designer : uh no . marketing : no . oh okay . industrial designer : the little holes maybe . marketing : can you erase ears project manager : yeah yeah yeah . user interface : marketing : or project manager : there 's a a gum , marketing : yeah ? alright . project manager : gum to . marketing : eraser . industrial designer : and why did you choose this animal ? marketing : so project manager : he said it was slow . marketing : i dunno . i it just came into my mind . so there 's no particular reason industrial designer : alright . marketing : i pen . project manager : i like it . marketing : yeah . well i 'm guess i 'm done . project manager : okay . marketing : that 's my turtle . project manager : your turn niels . industrial designer : alright . marketing : how to select the next or project manager : the next marketing : here . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : colours were under format marketing : yeah . project manager : makes new paper . marketing : here you go . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : right ? let 's see . project manager : orange . industrial designer : how am i gon na do this ? um mm uh . user interface : a rabbit i think . project manager : kangaroo . user interface : kangaroo . industrial designer : not quite actually . marketing : a fox yeah . firefox . user interface : industrial designer : aye . it 's a cat . project manager : it 's a cat . industrial designer : not quite yet through . marketing : a cat who had an accident or project manager : why a cat ? industrial designer : uh yeah i dunno . they 're my favourite pets . project manager : you have some uh ? industrial designer : uh i have colour already . yeah i 'm not so good at drawing with this kind of project manager : the pen , industrial designer : st oh shit . um project manager : yeah . industrial designer : excuse my language . user interface : marketing : project manager : sure . industrial designer : i do n't know how to draw its face . but you get the idea . project manager : yeah . alright . industrial designer : it 's a cat . it 's my favourite uh pet animal , 'cause they 're cute , they 're independent and cuddly , i dunno . project manager : okay . industrial designer : that 's it . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or do i need to use more colours and project manager : i think it 's okay . you get idea industrial designer : alright . project manager : right ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay um industrial designer : project manager : we have a financial aspect to this project . um we can sell them at twenty five euros . uh the aim is to reach uh uh to sell as much as fifty million euros . uh that 's quite a big amount of money . and the production cost should be the half of the selling price . okay industrial designer : so we have to s project manager : now it 's time for some discussion . user interface : okay . project manager : uh user interface : what uh what uh do you want to discuss ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we should get started . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh i 'm taking notes . um marketing : okay . great . project manager : we each have a specific task , as i saw in my mail . i did n't know if you received the same mail . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : i guess so . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay so the um uh this industrati industrial designer should produce a working design . am i correct ? industrial designer : true . project manager : okay . uh the user interface designer should specify the technical functions . right ? yeah ? and the marketing uh expert should come up with user requirements . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh did any of you already do some work on this part or industrial designer : well i started making an overview for myself , um what i had to do , 'cause we have three design steps and in every step i have a s specific task to perform or whatever . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i had to uh , i dunno , make an overview for myself about what i have to do , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and kind of let it work in to get ideas about well how i have to fill it . project manager : mm-hmm . and do you have any ideas about the product uh so far ? industrial designer : well i started i started with the first phase , i think was the functional . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh let 's see i had to focus on the working design , which you said . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : how does the apparatus work ? and well i basically had two points . uh according to the coffee uh machine example , i have batteries to supply energy , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and we ye use button presses to activate or deactivate certain functions on the tv . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : and that 's basically all i have so far . project manager : yeah i got another point . it uses infrared light to communicate the signal to the tv apparatus or stereo . user interface : yeah . wireless uh huh . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : alright . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so that 's very common . user interface : uh it 's uh some buttons for for the on off function . you d you already told that . and for the changing up to the to all the channels and changing the volume . that are the the basic options for a remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah i kept it global 'cause that it activates or deactivates specific functions , user interface : okay , yeah . industrial designer : 'cause i was n't thinking yet about that . i mean , you wan na ch ch flip the channel user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but you might wan na use teletext also . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno what the word is in english . uh project manager : same i believe . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh and what did the marketing expert do ? marketing : uh well from a marketing uh perspective , um well the function des design phase uh consists out of the user requirements . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um what needs and desires are to be fulfilled ? so there are a few means to reach that um by by doing research uh to see what existing products are there out in the market . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i mean , what functions do they have . um especially what are their shortcomings ? are there any new functions uh which can be added to our product ? project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : um therefore we have to to do some internet search . for example for um well what kind of applications do current remote controls support , and what are f featur features of uh current and future televisions ? project manager : yep . yes . marketing : so we can see uh what needs to be supported . um and we can interview current users and future users . what w what would they like to see uh on a new remote control ? um especially for future users , project manager : okay . okay . marketing : uh i 'm thinking of early adopters , because they they use new technology first , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and they play with a lot of tools and stuff so maybe they have some good ideas to uh to add . project manager : okay . and you can get that information ? marketing : i think i can get that information , yeah . project manager : okay . that would be very handy . marketing : so yeah . project manager : um but have you any idea so far as what uh the user requirements are ? marketing : no n not specifically . more to how to get them project manager : no okay . user interface : i got some uh requirements marketing : and project manager : yeah ? user interface : it has uh it has to be user-friendly . marketing : yeah ? project manager : of course . industrial designer : yeah . obviously . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh really easy to use buttons , not not uh very small buttons , but not the the also the big big buttons , but just normal buttons . it has to be a small unit . it has to be uh yeah , you can take it with you uh everywhere in in your house . so it has n has not to be l yeah , gigantic uh machine . project manager : big , mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh and a and a good uh zapping range . project manager : uh what do you mean by that ? user interface : uh the distance uh from your television to your uh remote control has to be , uh yeah um yeah , quite a big distance . marketing : yeah . user interface : it has to be capable for zapping uh marketing : yeah . from the other end of the room or something ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay um well i do n't think i have anything more to add at the moment . um i think the best is to go to work . industrial designer : whoa . is that you project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or alright . project manager : okay . marketing : any more points to discuss ? project manager : yeah . i think we can go ahead with what we have . i will summarise the things we discussed and put it in the project folder . uh the use of the industrial designer can work on the working design , etcetera etcetera . and it seems you get more information by email . so marketing : alright . industrial designer : alright . project manager : that was it for me . user interface : okay . marketing : 'kay . thanks . project manager : uh user interface : are you going to put the the notes on the project manager : yeah , in the project folder . yeah . marketing : yeah . the pro okay . user interface : okay . project manager : i 'm writing very fast . industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : hope it 's readable . okay um anything more you want to add to the discussion ? marketing : i guess so . industrial designer : well no i 'm just a bit wondering what we 're gon na do the next uh session ? user interface : yeah . do we only have to to do uh phase one , the functional design uh ? project manager : yeah . because then we have a user interface : after that we are going to the conceptual uh project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : y you do some individual work , marketing : we 're just working the three phases . project manager : we have meeting , individual work , meeting . and at the end of the day we have a final meeting . and then i have to prepare uh i have to defend our design , user interface : project manager : so make it good . industrial designer : yeah okay . we 'll do our best . marketing : okay . project manager : i depend on you . user interface : okay . marketing : better make it industrial designer : i am gon na work on the conceptual design already 'cause yeah it 's fairly important to know what kind of components we want to put in . project manager : yeah ? if you can mix it it 's okay . mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : do we i mean , is it gon na be a multimedia control centre ? do we want to be able to use the video recorder with it ? marketing : yeah . that is my question also project manager : yeah . marketing : because like new new functions project manager : well i think that is the user requirements part . marketing : requirements . yeah . project manager : as to what they want . uh do they want all those functions on that small industrial designer : yeah . true . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but but we need good communication about this stuff , marketing : unit . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause i have to f put the components into the design . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i would first m industrial designer : so if i do n't know what components to put in , it 's kind of hard . marketing : yeah well project manager : yeah i understand . marketing : i i was user interface : yeah . i i think we have first to start with the basic functions and we can uh expand them . project manager : you can always add a few marketing : well like l li like some like some some remotes who are out there , which i know , there 's one button which is very easy to switch between devices . project manager : yeah . marketing : so you can switch to your video and then the same buttons control your video . project manager : the c_d_ player . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and another function i 'll think of switch to your media centre , because that 's getting very popular . industrial designer : yeah so marketing : and then use your windows media centre under your tv with the same remote control . so with the switch , one single switch project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah i i know what you mean , but you 'll ne need several other buttons for a video player . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you need a play and a forw fast forward and a stop function . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and you you do n't need that for a tv . marketing : records and stuff like that . industrial designer : and and for a t uh teletext you need additional buttons as well , project manager : you need additional yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i kind of need to know what we uh need . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : whatever , i 'll just put my ideas in uh in here project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and then we can discuss it with the next uh meeting . marketing : in the project uh project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : we could just start with the assumption that 's only for tv and video . and um reserve the possibility to add other features . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so we have a basic starting point industrial designer : okay . project manager : and you can always extend that so make sure it 's extendible . yeah . user interface : yeah it it has yeah it has to be user-friendly . industrial designer : alright . marketing : yeah . user interface : so it 's has n't it 's yeah . project manager : th the least amount of functions possible user interface : yeah . project manager : so it 's easier to get to know how it works etcetera . user interface : okay . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . i understand . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah ? okay and uh i 'll see you again uh when the computer tells us to . industrial designer : alright . yeah . project manager : yeah , you 're di dismissed . user interface : can we leave now marketing : half an hour . user interface : or industrial designer : thanks . marketing : you 're fired . project manager : not yet . industrial designer : alright . project manager : okay . marketing : alright let 's move on . project manager : let 's see what we got to do . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : see you later . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : yeah see you later . user interface : good luck . project manager : yeah . thank you . marketing : well good luck . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about pricing and individual task assignment ? </s> project manager : we have a financial aspect to this project . um we can sell them at twenty five euros . uh the aim is to reach uh uh to sell as much as fifty million euros . uh that 's quite a big amount of money . and the production cost should be the half of the selling price . okay industrial designer : so we have to s project manager : now it 's time for some discussion . user interface : okay . project manager : uh user interface : what uh what uh do you want to discuss ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : we should get started . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh i 'm taking notes . um marketing : okay . great . project manager : we each have a specific task , as i saw in my mail . i did n't know if you received the same mail . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : i guess so . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay so the um uh this industrati industrial designer should produce a working design . am i correct ? industrial designer : true . project manager : okay . uh the user interface designer should specify the technical functions . right ? yeah ? and the marketing uh expert should come up with user requirements . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh did any of you already do some work on this part or industrial designer : well i started making an overview for myself , um what i had to do , 'cause we have three design steps and in every step i have a s specific task to perform or whatever . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i had to uh , i dunno , make an overview for myself about what i have to do , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and kind of let it work in to get ideas about well how i have to fill it . project manager : mm-hmm . and do you have any ideas about the product uh so far ? industrial designer : well i started i started with the first phase , i think was the functional . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh let 's see i had to focus on the working design , which you said . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : how does the apparatus work ? and well i basically had two points . uh according to the coffee uh machine example , i have batteries to supply energy , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and we ye use button presses to activate or deactivate certain functions on the tv . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : and that 's basically all i have so far . project manager : yeah i got another point . it uses infrared light to communicate the signal to the tv apparatus or stereo . user interface : yeah . wireless uh huh . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : alright . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so that 's very common . user interface : uh it 's uh some buttons for for the on off function . you d you already told that . and for the changing up to the to all the channels and changing the volume . that are the the basic options for a remote control . industrial designer : yeah . yeah i kept it global 'cause that it activates or deactivates specific functions , user interface : okay , yeah . industrial designer : 'cause i was n't thinking yet about that . i mean , you wan na ch ch flip the channel user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but you might wan na use teletext also . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno what the word is in english . uh project manager : same i believe . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh and what did the marketing expert do ? marketing : uh well from a marketing uh perspective , um well the function des design phase uh consists out of the user requirements . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um what needs and desires are to be fulfilled ? so there are a few means to reach that um by by doing research uh to see what existing products are there out in the market . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i mean , what functions do they have . um especially what are their shortcomings ? are there any new functions uh which can be added to our product ? project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : um therefore we have to to do some internet search . for example for um well what kind of applications do current remote controls support , and what are f featur features of uh current and future televisions ? project manager : yep . yes . marketing : so we can see uh what needs to be supported . um and we can interview current users and future users . what w what would they like to see uh on a new remote control ? um especially for future users , project manager : okay . okay . marketing : uh i 'm thinking of early adopters , because they they use new technology first , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and they play with a lot of tools and stuff so maybe they have some good ideas to uh to add . project manager : okay . and you can get that information ? marketing : i think i can get that information , yeah . project manager : okay . that would be very handy . </s>
<s> summarize industrial designer 's opinions towards individual task assignment . </s> project manager : uh did any of you already do some work on this part or industrial designer : well i started making an overview for myself , um what i had to do , 'cause we have three design steps and in every step i have a s specific task to perform or whatever . project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : so i had to uh , i dunno , make an overview for myself about what i have to do , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and kind of let it work in to get ideas about well how i have to fill it . project manager : mm-hmm . and do you have any ideas about the product uh so far ? industrial designer : well i started i started with the first phase , i think was the functional . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh let 's see i had to focus on the working design , which you said . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : how does the apparatus work ? and well i basically had two points . uh according to the coffee uh machine example , i have batteries to supply energy , project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : and we ye use button presses to activate or deactivate certain functions on the tv . project manager : mm-hmm . okay . industrial designer : and that 's basically all i have so far . project manager : yeah i got another point . it uses infrared light to communicate the signal to the tv apparatus or stereo . user interface : yeah . wireless uh huh . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : alright . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize marketing 's opinions towards individual task assignment . </s> project manager : uh and what did the marketing expert do ? marketing : uh well from a marketing uh perspective , um well the function des design phase uh consists out of the user requirements . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um what needs and desires are to be fulfilled ? so there are a few means to reach that um by by doing research uh to see what existing products are there out in the market . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i mean , what functions do they have . um especially what are their shortcomings ? are there any new functions uh which can be added to our product ? project manager : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : um therefore we have to to do some internet search . for example for um well what kind of applications do current remote controls support , and what are f featur features of uh current and future televisions ? project manager : yep . yes . marketing : so we can see uh what needs to be supported . um and we can interview current users and future users . what w what would they like to see uh on a new remote control ? um especially for future users , project manager : okay . okay . marketing : uh i 'm thinking of early adopters , because they they use new technology first , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and they play with a lot of tools and stuff so maybe they have some good ideas to uh to add . project manager : okay . and you can get that information ? marketing : i think i can get that information , yeah . project manager : okay . that would be very handy . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about user requirements of the new remote control ? </s> project manager : um but have you any idea so far as what uh the user requirements are ? marketing : no n not specifically . more to how to get them project manager : no okay . user interface : i got some uh requirements marketing : and project manager : yeah ? user interface : it has uh it has to be user-friendly . marketing : yeah ? project manager : of course . industrial designer : yeah . obviously . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh really easy to use buttons , not not uh very small buttons , but not the the also the big big buttons , but just normal buttons . it has to be a small unit . it has to be uh yeah , you can take it with you uh everywhere in in your house . so it has n has not to be l yeah , gigantic uh machine . project manager : big , mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : uh and a and a good uh zapping range . project manager : uh what do you mean by that ? user interface : uh the distance uh from your television to your uh remote control has to be , uh yeah um yeah , quite a big distance . marketing : yeah . user interface : it has to be capable for zapping uh marketing : yeah . from the other end of the room or something ? user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the emphasis on the basic function and function extendibility ? </s> project manager : okay um well i do n't think i have anything more to add at the moment . um i think the best is to go to work . industrial designer : whoa . is that you project manager : yeah . industrial designer : or alright . project manager : okay . marketing : any more points to discuss ? project manager : yeah . i think we can go ahead with what we have . i will summarise the things we discussed and put it in the project folder . uh the use of the industrial designer can work on the working design , etcetera etcetera . and it seems you get more information by email . so marketing : alright . industrial designer : alright . project manager : that was it for me . user interface : okay . marketing : 'kay . thanks . project manager : uh user interface : are you going to put the the notes on the project manager : yeah , in the project folder . yeah . marketing : yeah . the pro okay . user interface : okay . project manager : i 'm writing very fast . industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : hope it 's readable . okay um anything more you want to add to the discussion ? marketing : i guess so . industrial designer : well no i 'm just a bit wondering what we 're gon na do the next uh session ? user interface : yeah . do we only have to to do uh phase one , the functional design uh ? project manager : yeah . because then we have a user interface : after that we are going to the conceptual uh project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : y you do some individual work , marketing : we 're just working the three phases . project manager : we have meeting , individual work , meeting . and at the end of the day we have a final meeting . and then i have to prepare uh i have to defend our design , user interface : project manager : so make it good . industrial designer : yeah okay . we 'll do our best . marketing : okay . project manager : i depend on you . user interface : okay . marketing : better make it industrial designer : i am gon na work on the conceptual design already 'cause yeah it 's fairly important to know what kind of components we want to put in . project manager : yeah ? if you can mix it it 's okay . mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : do we i mean , is it gon na be a multimedia control centre ? do we want to be able to use the video recorder with it ? marketing : yeah . that is my question also project manager : yeah . marketing : because like new new functions project manager : well i think that is the user requirements part . marketing : requirements . yeah . project manager : as to what they want . uh do they want all those functions on that small industrial designer : yeah . true . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but but we need good communication about this stuff , marketing : unit . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : 'cause i have to f put the components into the design . marketing : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i would first m industrial designer : so if i do n't know what components to put in , it 's kind of hard . marketing : yeah well project manager : yeah i understand . marketing : i i was user interface : yeah . i i think we have first to start with the basic functions and we can uh expand them . project manager : you can always add a few marketing : well like l li like some like some some remotes who are out there , which i know , there 's one button which is very easy to switch between devices . project manager : yeah . marketing : so you can switch to your video and then the same buttons control your video . project manager : the c_d_ player . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and another function i 'll think of switch to your media centre , because that 's getting very popular . industrial designer : yeah so marketing : and then use your windows media centre under your tv with the same remote control . so with the switch , one single switch project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah i i know what you mean , but you 'll ne need several other buttons for a video player . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you need a play and a forw fast forward and a stop function . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and you you do n't need that for a tv . marketing : records and stuff like that . industrial designer : and and for a t uh teletext you need additional buttons as well , project manager : you need additional yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i kind of need to know what we uh need . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : whatever , i 'll just put my ideas in uh in here project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and then we can discuss it with the next uh meeting . marketing : in the project uh project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : we could just start with the assumption that 's only for tv and video . and um reserve the possibility to add other features . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so we have a basic starting point industrial designer : okay . project manager : and you can always extend that so make sure it 's extendible . yeah . user interface : yeah it it has yeah it has to be user-friendly . industrial designer : alright . marketing : yeah . user interface : so it 's has n't it 's yeah . project manager : th the least amount of functions possible user interface : yeah . project manager : so it 's easier to get to know how it works etcetera . user interface : okay . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . i understand . yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah ? okay and uh i 'll see you again uh when the computer tells us to . industrial designer : alright . yeah . </s>
<s> why did industrial designer disagree with marketing about the design of only one button when discussing the emphasis on the basic function and function extendibility ? </s> marketing : well like l li like some like some some remotes who are out there , which i know , there 's one button which is very easy to switch between devices . project manager : yeah . marketing : so you can switch to your video and then the same buttons control your video . project manager : the c_d_ player . yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : and another function i 'll think of switch to your media centre , because that 's getting very popular . industrial designer : yeah so marketing : and then use your windows media centre under your tv with the same remote control . so with the switch , one single switch project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah i i know what you mean , but you 'll ne need several other buttons for a video player . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : you need a play and a forw fast forward and a stop function . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and you you do n't need that for a tv . marketing : records and stuff like that . industrial designer : and and for a t uh teletext you need additional buttons as well , project manager : you need additional yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so i kind of need to know what we uh need . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh marketing : yeah . industrial designer : whatever , i 'll just put my ideas in uh in here project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and then we can discuss it with the next uh meeting . marketing : in the project uh project manager : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : hello . marketing : hey guys . industrial designer : i see my bunny is still standing . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : no one drawing it . project manager : it 's too beautiful . user interface : yeah , true . industrial designer : uh i figured uh that much . project manager : marketing : too wicked . project manager : a minute please , my uh laptop is uh oh , there it is , thank you . so welcome back . at the functional design meeting um the plan is uh that uh each one of you , so not me but only you uh will uh present uh the the things you worked on uh the last uh half hour . i will uh take minutes and will put uh the minutes that i have uh at the end of the session in the shared folder . also the minutes of the previous session are also in the shared folder now , so you can read that uh now or afterwards . um uh i had an email from the from the management board marketing : project manager : uh , i do n't know if you a al also uh received it , but there were four points uh which uh i think are very important . first one is uh they think that uh teletext teletext becomes outdated uh and internet will be the the main uh focus . uh second one is also important uh , because it 's one of the discussion points of the previous session . uh the remote control shou should onl only be used for the television , so it uh not gon na it 's not gon na be a multi-purpose remote control , so uh that 's one thing to keep in mind . user interface : marketing : project manager : uh second , and i think that 's important for the marketing uh expert , uh the current uh customers uh are in the age group group of uh forty years and older , but with this uh new remote uh they uh will uh would like to reach uh a group uh younger than uh forty . uh and uh i think to keep in mind , but not really uh for now is that they uh want the the the slogan and the and the logo uh to uh to be recognised more in the remote . marketing : project manager : so , we have uh forty minutes , so i think uh not more than ten minutes uh uh per presentation uh each , and please uh use uh all the the the facilities so that you have either smartboards , the the word files , what you uh whatever you want . so uh tim , can you start ? yeah ? marketing : okay . 'kay , welcome . i have some uh new findings on uh marketing expert level , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : which i will show you . the method i used was um giving orders to our usability lab uh to do a questionnaire . um one hundred respondents were involved and my marketing uh department generated a report with a lot of results . um , these were a couple of findings , first page of three . um , we have three audiences of two audiences , i 'm sorry . uh the first one , this scale , from sixteen to forty five age . uh the second one is from sixty four uh forty six to sixty five . um , as you can see here , the market share for the first audience is about sixty percent um sixty five . uh second audience audience is uh thirty five percent . mm and some interests from the from the age groups , uh it seems like the young users of remote controls really like the fancy uh new technology stuff , like uh an lcd screen on the remote control , um speech recognition . i do n't think that 's uh really appropriate . um , and when you see uh the audience , the age is going up uh yeah , they do n't really want it anymore , at least the new technologies . second findings out of the questionnaire um are the opinion the opinions uh of the audience about current remote controls . first point is , seventy five percent of the users find the most repo remote controls very ugly , uh and eighty percent of the users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy . so that 's maybe something for the user interface uh designer . okay , third findings . according to the frequency of use versus importance investigation , um following buttons are most important . um , i will tell something about the way this uh this test was , yeah , done . um , persons were asked uh what the buttons were uh they use most , how much an hour , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and uh in the second table the importance of those buttons . um , when you multiply them , you get the these three points . switching channels , um yeah , that 's pretty uh pretty normal , that 's what you do with a remote control . um the second , teletext , uh and the third , uh volume controls . um , i think it 's good uh that we know what the user want wants , uh at least the these three points have to be uh very clear . project manager : but it 's strange that the the manage board the management board said that the teletext will be uh outdated by the internet . so that that 's strange . marketing : yeah , okay . yeah , okay , but uh at the moment uh teletext is yeah , th the best thing you can get uh on tv , like getting information . project manager : yeah , okay . yeah . marketing : so uh , when you ask people , what do they use , they use teletext and not the internet on a remote control . project manager : okay . yeah , okay . marketing : that 's ridiculous . project manager : yeah . marketing : that 's a ne i it it 's a new technology , project manager : yeah . marketing : but it 's not incorporated right now . okay , my personal preferences . um , i think we should aim at the uh audience from sixteen to forty five . mm , first of all um it 's the biggest share , the biggest audience , sixty five percent . uh second , i think you will get the most revenue from i from it . um , yeah , people from sixteen to forty five watch a lot of tv , more than uh people who are el uh elder . um second point , we have to impro improve the most used functions , as i said here , switching channels , teletext and volume controls . third point um that came out of the uh of the questionnaire , uh people used to uh get lost off the remote controller , so maybe it 's an idea for us uh to design ex kind of placeholder uh on side of the , yeah , of the tv project manager : yeah , that 's a cool idea . marketing : where you can put the the remote control in . um , that 's about it , i think . yeah . industrial designer : when you mentioned uh improving functions , what uh what do you mean by that what what are you think about ? marketing : uh not not the r not the functions , industrial designer : uh , the funtionability . marketing : but uh it came out that a lot of buttons were n't even used uh on a remote control . so you can have a remote control full of buttons , a hundreds hundreds of buttons , but if you do n't use them , yeah it 's project manager : yeah . industrial designer : ah okay , so focusing more on the used buttons . marketing : yeah , they have to be on it industrial designer : yeah . marketing : j just to t to get it done if necessary , user interface : marketing : but um the most used buttons uh have to be bigger or industrial designer : could you use perhaps uh one button for multiple functions , like example pressing it in longer makes it switch to an different function for example . marketing : yeah , perhaps . industrial designer : thank you . marketing : just for the minor functions perhaps . industrial designer : yeah , ma perhaps , just just an idea . marketing : just to get less buttons on the remote control , to make it easier and quicker to learn . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah ? 'kay , that 's it . project manager : thank you , tim . janus , can you uh industrial designer : uh yeah yeah , i 'll go , sure . right uh , i 'll be uh explaining a bit about uh working design about uh the project . well uh what i did was i dissected uh uh current remote controls and um i viewed how how they w looked , how they worked , uh what kind of components are involved , and how they are connected together . and uh after that i put up a scheme about how uh these things are organised and i 'll show it to you in in a in a few seconds . and i 'll explain a bit about uh how it works and how we could uh build one and why i think several possibilities uh that we discussed in the earlier meeting falls off . um right . uh well what i did was uh i i checked uh remote controls and the uh remote controls of today are all infrared , not like all probably know . and the thing about that is um the remote controls uh have to act as a tv or uh a stereo or something , and those uh have a transmitter that 's also focused on infrared , so if we want to uh build uh mm a remote control uh with bluetooth for instance then uh the tv should have bluetooth too in order to communicate , so that would mean extra cost for the user and thus uh that 's that would n't mean a a cheap uh remote control for us . so that 's probably why most controls are still infrared . furthermore they all have uh a a very simple structure , so that would probably uh mean lower costs and uh i that could mean for us a good thing uh 'cause uh well we we should be able to build a relatively cheap uh a cheap uh remote . well uh as i mentioned ready , we have some bluetooth well it may be possible , but uh i figured it would n't be possible in within our budget , but that 's not for me to decide , but that 's maybe something for marketing to look into . f because uh well my personal opinion is uh is not to do uh bluetooth or or radio waves , although marketing : what do you think about uh incorporating bluetooth or a radio uh receiver uh in the place-holder next to the tv , connected to the tv ? industrial designer : yeah , actually i have t marketing : so it 's in the wrong product . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , i actually i figured that would be that would be rather nice , but then you 'd still have the uh the infrared function . so in in theory you 'd actually just move the problem , marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : but uh what i did uh think about was when you mentioned about the uh the cup-holder , is why not uh introduce a speech function like where is the remote . if somebody says , where is the remote , then it goes uh beep uh beep beep beep or something , user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno , maybe uh maybe something to look into , i dunno uh what the cost that something like that would be . but it may be uh may be something to explore . uh i 'll i 'll just explain a bit of the components . uh first you have the energy source . the energy source would be a battery , simple uh battery uh that you can find anywhere . i figured that would be best , 'cause when the battery uh stops functioning uh we could just uh use you could just go out and buy a new one . so we did n't and we do n't have to do all uh to be too complicated about that . uh the energy source is connected to the infrared button , but uh the infrared button uh works only via the chip and the subcomponent to uh the switch there is a switch uh between these . when the switch is pressed in a w on this this case it switches a button , when a button is prush pushed in , uh a electric current goes through here , and in uh immediately , a l a bulb lights up uh displaying to the user that something has happened . that 's uh that 's so the h user wo n't be um thinking , well uh did the button be pressed , w what happened uh . or i press button but nothing 's happening on the tv , so is is something wrong or something . so that 's just to uh to to explain the of to to uh make it clearer to the user . uh w well the signal goes via chip that 's translated into uh electric sig uh electronic signals and then it 's processed and then it 's sent to the infrared bulb where it will be uh uh received on the receiving end . and those uh interpreted by the device , well in this case the television . uh well my personal preferences here , well we have to keep it simple . not too many uh gadgets and functions , just like you said uh well the most users n uh you have a lot of buttons and you u u use you do n't use them , so why why should we invent uh w spend more time on those . uh i i think we should stick by with infrared transmitting and uh no receiving . so uh no input from the television . so i think we should n't be uh spending time on um teletext and st things like that , because when you uh want teletext on uh infrared you 'd have to build in a receiver too , and so in order to receive the signals from uh what 's on tv and such . so i figure that would be uh spending too much money and time and marketing : um , yeah , maybe another problem uh , i think current tvs can even send infrared . industrial designer : yes , but what should we uh s i i i f i agree with you , but should we spend money or and time on building a receiver into the uh remote control ? 'cause that would be i mean extra components , extra designs , um larger g uh remote control . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : these all uh all stuff that we have to take in account . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so i i my personal opinion is no no no receiver at all . um , well marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we should uh look into the design and the functionability . like i said , uh use one button for instance for m multiple functions , or well uh just hide the few buttons o of switching it open or something , the usual uh stuff . and uh do n't overbuild , we should n't make a big uh remote control for simple functions , but we we should stick to the basics . so that was my uh my personal opinion . and that was my uh my presentation uh project manager : okay , thank you janus . user interface : okay . yes , project manager : you do ? user interface : i can go ahead . project manager : the last presentation . you have plenty of time , user interface : last presentation . okay . project manager : tim and uh janus do n't uh talk to ten minutes , industrial designer : project manager : so uh take your time . marketing : project manager : if you take your time too long i will uh eventually uh industrial designer : project manager : warn you . user interface : marketing : user interface : well , i 'm going to give a presentation abut some of the technical functions of these design and uh usability functions . project manager : user interface : um what 's my opinion about what 's most important to combine the design , technical possibilities and the user friendliness in one , so if you um going to design a remote that looks good , that should n't weigh over the uh if it 's possible to make , of course , but also the user friendliness , so tha that 's that 's some of the main points . and another one is um the use um of many functions will will make it more difficult , so use as as little functions as possible or at least do n't display them all at once on the same remote . if you have fifty functions you do n't want fifty buttons uh t uh to be shown at the same time , 'cause when you visit an internet uh site you do n't want fifty links uh to see , but maybe use a hierarch hierarchy uh structure . marketing : user interface : and uh well one of the ideas was maybe uh use touch screen , but s i do n't know in how far that is possible , since we are sticking to uh um infrared and and the remote can not receive anything , but uh we might uh consider that . um well , of course i i hope this is all clear to you . if you you can use remote like this with all the functions , many functions , but well , your thumb is a little bigger than th it than this . you have to be very careful what you push , marketing : user interface : and um if you 're looking for teletext you 'll be uh searching for half an hour from uh um yeah well , where is it ? where the hell he here i guess and , yeah , when you have to uh use something else . so just keep it simple , make clear buttons , easy to use . for example if you want to use a play and back and stop , that 's very important . um well this was because of our last discussion , if multiple machines are used , create easy switch between the machines , but um it 's no longer uh applying . well yeah , i prefer to use it only for tv and um n uh not to give too many options and and if possible , uh the buttons should give a dr direct action , not first select project manager : uh you you just said um uh you wanted to to combine more functions in one , so uh user interface : yeah , project manager : you you want to keep it simple , user interface : and so that 's where the difficulties lie . industrial designer : yeah , but project manager : but i think that if you want to do that , then you ca n't escape the the fact that there will be buttons uh which give s uh more options than one . user interface : yeah , this so that 's the thing you have to weigh against each other . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , but user interface : do we want to use a few options and might not be so or original , or uh multi-purpose as we thought , project manager : mm-hmm . okay . user interface : or do we want to use um many buttons . project manager : yeah . user interface : so um weighing those factors . marketing : hmm it 's maybe an option uh if you use an lcd or a touch screen um , that in the middle are the the main keys , like displayed on the user interface : marketing : uh yeah . user interface : the does n't . marketing : . yeah , this ? no ? yeah . something like that . okay , just uh in the middle the general functions , like play , uh channel switching , user interface : yeah . marketing : and then uh at the top or at the bottom , some menus like uh settings or that you can drop down . user interface : yeah , but when all the questions i had do we want to use uh a menu display on the tv ? or um does have to f everything uh be in remotes ? 'cause if you use a memory display on the tv , you can simply push uh a more menu and then select the options you want to have and press okay . uh so that 's my recommendation , if you use many options in one buttle button , um display the menu on the tv marketing : nah . mm-hmm . user interface : and do n't um use combination of t of two buttons at the same time or pressing buttons three times for five seconds , marketing : yeah . user interface : is too complicated for most users . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , but marketing : i think so too , but and that 's partly because um uh a lot of tvs have different menus , and when you have a particular menu uh at your device , uh it could be that do n't correspond to the menu what 's actually on tv . user interface : yeah , that will be a problem . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : you d you have to keep in mind that uh several tvs uh do n't even have a menu structure , or they have a very simple menu structure , so you have to keep in mind that not all uh d not our remote wo n't be able to work on all televisions . and that would be uh a considerable problem . user interface : so if we have to stick with current technologies and uh um well yeah , the restrictions of what 's uh is on the market today , um you should keep it s at this . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : use big clear buttons . not too many . so maybe we 'll loose a few option uh options , but i think i this is more important . um especially the important buttons , um if you want to switch channel , change your volume , uh use teletext , it uh it has to work at once and more advanced options may be put it s somewhere away on the remote , behind uh a little uh little thing or a touch screen . industrial designer : not embed yeah , but then with something like a touch screen could could make more menu up pop up or something . user interface : and yeah , if you want to uh uh s put on stand-by or change the channel , that should always be possible to do . not first change menu options or switch something . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : um , well yeah , as you already told , give some feedback . if the user is pushing a button he should know if the television or n at least remote is reacting and not just that the batteries may be low . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and um , well , my conclusion is uh is uh less is more , keep it simple . so uh maybe we should just ease down on the functionality to uh to keep it accessible on t because you all know , if there are a lot of function on the the television , some you you 'll never know uh and never use , and therefore it 's uh important marketing : yeah . user interface : if you want to change the volume or channel that is always accessible and easy and other functions um that are not so important um well you we should consider just not using them or at least putting them somewhere on the remote where they 're not in the way for the for the most important functions . marketing : yeah . uh , i think the idea uh about uh touch screen um is very good . um , because recently uh i saw news item on tv um about uh new telephones uh for elder people . um , they have like a touch screen with uh really big pictures on it like uh uh call uh hang-up , um and that 's a big ad advantage i think , because one the one hand uh you make the remote control compatible for elder users just by uh scaling up the pictures or something . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's uh very visual intended . what was i to say more ? user interface : maybe that 's an option . um keep the primary buttons visible . uh make a remote that fits easily in the hands marketing : yeah . user interface : and for some design issues uh well , put a logo on it and maybe use it uh in some aesthetic uh aesthetic form . project manager : user interface : but uh th the important buttons m make them always accessible and pushable and clear industrial designer : user interface : and maybe use a touch screen , or if that 's uh will become too difficult just uh like televi some o older telephones use a l uh maybe it 's possible to to flip them open and uh just expand the number of options that are normally visible . um marketing : yeah okay , but but if you pick the the idea , the left idea user interface : yeah . marketing : then what 's gon na be displayed on the touch screen ? industrial designer : the extra functions . user interface : the extra functions , you uh you just see a menu from system functions or teletext functions , and you just choose one , marketing : yeah , but l like menu functions or industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then all all the options will become available marketing : ah okay . user interface : and you just c s yeah t scroll through them . industrial designer : would n't it be better to make just one big touch screen , uh one one small uh touch screen uh applet marketing : yeah , i think so . industrial designer : and uh i 'll just make um uh let 's say fifteen buttons on it , and uh we have three of those , uh actually just uh menus with sub-menus , with or sub-items , sub-functions . user interface : well um marketing : yeah . user interface : then i 'd like to make a proposal . marketing : user interface : if you make one big touch screen , industrial designer : yes . user interface : use the same concept as here , keep the buttons always available industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : and use the lower part of the touch screen for the rest . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : like like the ipod idea that that we just saw . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you just have a f a few selected buttons and uh a few menus , and with this idea you could actually make uh several you can also improve uh later on . uh uh i think that will be great . user interface : okay . project manager : so you think it 's will be better to have a t kinda total touch screen . marketing : yeah , i think so . industrial designer : yeah , i wou i would actually go for the project manager : jirun ? user interface : okay , i agree , but i think it 's very important that they always um make the same buttons accessible , so use just for special options a part of the touch screen . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , of course . user interface : and so um an elder designer picks up th the of industrial designer : yeah . user interface : an elder parents or grandparent picks up the remote from the little child and who 's all in the systems functions , you 'll have to have the possibility to turn off the tv or to switch the channel without um well using all the menu structures to get back to the primary functions . project manager : yeah yeah yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah , i had another uh idea about maybe parental control . um , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : like building in uh some kind of pin code uh which allows uh parents to switch to all channels , uh user interface : yeah . marketing : but children uh if children do n't do n't know the pin code , they ca n't switch to uh violent uh channels or user interface : yeah wh is that possible to use or no ? industrial designer : that is possible , that well that actually depends on the television , marketing : th there 's just user interface : well , yeah well , industrial designer : but i think i figure that would be user interface : does it have to depend on the television ? marketing : ju just a simple log-in , something like that . industrial designer : well , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : y you s you see the fi uh thing is when you buy a remote , you you set the uh channels , the the channels are different on each te television , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : they are n't set in a preset order , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so uh if you uh lock on a remote , uh let 's say channel fifteen , well channel fifteen on this television is different than channel fifteen on the other television , marketing : mm-hmm . yeah , okay . industrial designer : so that would be uh that would be actually the main concern . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : well , i think that he means that um maybe by some option uh make sure that um remote control and the tv match , and then after that you can um use some s insert some passwords as being apparent that the children can not use this uh change the settings of the tv , like colour and then volume marketing : yeah . user interface : and uh marketing : yeah , th that kind of stuff , but maybe um if you log in first as a parent um , you address the the channels user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : and like uh oh , that 's channel fifteen , that 's uh vi violent channel , user interface : oh , something like that . marketing : uh m my ki my kids uh i do n't want my kids to watch that , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then you set the priority to only parents , industrial designer : project manager : okay , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : well b but make it a separate option in the menu , industrial designer : yeah , that would b marketing : for example . but industrial designer : yeah , that . user interface : so that it 's it 's dif dis displayed from uh displayed here , marketing : yeah okay , but but yeah , that 's just user interface : so uh parents uh marketing : that 's an a an added feature . project manager : yeah . okay . but let 's not uh go too wide about the those things , that 's that why we 're here . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , th th those things are nice . project manager : it 's it 's a nice idea , but i think that 's we wel later in the stage . i 've one little question about um a total touch screen or uh um a p marketing : partial . project manager : yeah , a partial , uh because i think uh elderly people may be uh not used to uh a touch screen , so they want the the the normal functions like teletext , volume changing , um uh to be uh , yeah , kinda traditionals marketing : yeah . project manager : uh and uh the the the the other functions , the more difficult functions uh to be uh maybe on the touch screen , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : but to keep this as uh normal as possible , to keep it accessible . marketing : yeah , but but if you display it on lcd screen with r r really big numbers user interface : yeah , you can de display it on the on the old style . marketing : that 's just as e just as easy . industrial designer : uh . i i do user interface : you can display actual buttons on the touch screens . project manager : yeah . yeah , that 's true , that 's true . industrial designer : uh i do agree , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : because well , it 's just not the same when you touch a touch screen user interface : yeah , okay . industrial designer : or when you touch a button , but well we have to look at what 's our target uh audience . marketing : yeah , it 's different . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : w we are aiming for younger people project manager : yeah , that 's true , yeah . industrial designer : and they they chose marketing : yeah , age b below forty . project manager : yeah , yeah yeah , yeah , that 's a good point . yep . industrial designer : so that 's that 's probably uh a marketing : and th those young people , yeah . y you saw it in my marketing report , they like the new fancy stuff , project manager : mm-hmm . they like the fancy stuff , yeah . that 's true . marketing : so a touch screen , like microsoft al already developed something like that for uh uh multi-media applications . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : i th i think we can do that too . project manager : mm yeah . okay , as you can see uh the minutes from the second meeting , this one , are uh are done . marketing : done . project manager : uh i 've uh added the this uh four things from the management board just to keep in mind . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um each time i uh i had a sort of uh summary on what you told and uh what you personal think . uh so that can be uh can be read out . uh a f a few things i uh i noticed uh were um moment . ooh . uh th the the main points in uh this uh uh in this uh meeting is i think uh how uh it 's going to look uh with uh we must keep it simple , but have the opportunity to uh have more options and have them uh hidden or something , so they do n't uh you do n't have a big uh thing full of uh buttons or uh um and uh the point that uh you uh wan na use one uh controller uh for uh uh hypothetically each television , so you must uh the the the the functions , know , like the menus or the the parental control must be all uh by the done by the remote control and not by the television . i think that 's the point what uh user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : we discussed . marketing : yeah , yeah , some of them . the menus uh are not identical for all th for all tvs , so you have to display it on one uh tv . user interface : well you can use um when you uh how do you call it , s um synchronized , the um remote and the tv , marketing : yeah , but that 's not possible . user interface : then there 's always , there are always uh possibilities to change the colour and the brightness and the volume marketing : mm-hmm , mm yeah . user interface : and um well maybe we can look out if there 's options that the remote um in its memory can see what kinda tv it is , from ah , it 's a philips , this and this and that , and then give the options that are capable the capable from the t project manager : yeah , but you have uh uh an marketing : add th that that 's an opportunity . project manager : yeah , but you have an international market range , so you have i think a big range of user interface : well there are universal d um um remotes project manager : yeah . user interface : and they all have a functionality for all the tvs , uh so this would n't be a extra feature to incorporate the men menus of these . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but they marketing : but project manager : and it 's not too complex to do it . industrial designer : well they uh they all have to be programmed to fit your tv project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and that that is bit of a tricky job . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i actually use one of those when they are they are kinda kinda troublesome , but but the thing is whe when you uh start uh building something like this you have to build a receiver into the uh t into the remotes , because uh in order for the remote to process something from the tv , like uh to synchronise and you have to send and receive , user interface : yeah . well yeah . mm-hmm . oh um mo industrial designer : and that 's well marketing : no no no . user interface : no , you can just say uh the c marketing : he he he he me he means just just one other thing . project manager : just build it in . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh , with the current remote controls , the universal ones , um you have to press yeah , you have to press a code for tv . industrial designer : yeah . yes . user interface : in codes , y you you get a b a book with codes . you look up , i have a philips h_ fifty five industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it says press code four five five marketing : yeah . industrial designer : oh , okay , yeah , sure , uh user interface : and you press code four five five on the uh in the remote industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah . user interface : and it displays all your uh menu options . industrial designer : oh , yeah yeah , sure , that would be possible , yeah . marketing : yeah . now we uh just connect uh the tv type uh to a set of options , in just just in the memory , user interface : memory in the in the remote . industrial designer : profiles . marketing : so that if you yeah , like profile , so that if you uh touch in like uh one four one zero kind of tv uh industrial designer : yeah . marketing : the memory uh pops up the options . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , that would be possible . yeah , sure . project manager : okay . marketing : i th do n't think that 's uh that takes a lot of storage space or some just varia variables . industrial designer : no , that would n't be uh user interface : yeah , well um industrial designer : yeah , a few variables . user interface : if you look at the um manuals from universal uh remotes , there are maybe um three four hundreds tvs at maximum . if you have all of them , all the old and new tvs summed up , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : so uh i think uh it is possible . industrial designer : ah it is . it is definitely po marketing : but , on the other hand on the other hand , uh if you have a remote and buy a new tv that is n't incorporated in the remote project manager : we have five minutes to go . user interface : yeah . well then you have to buy a new one , it 's very good for marketing marketing : new remote ? user interface : maybe , or an update , software update . marketing : a firmware upgrade or something , user interface : firmware update , you say . industrial designer : yeah , firmware upgrade . marketing : but from where ? ah . maybe w industrial designer : that 's maybe the cup holder . marketing : no m may no , user interface : yeah . marketing : maybe we can incorporate some kind of uh u_s_b_ or a firewire connection , so that you can uh connect it to the p_c_ and download the newest firmware from uh from the internet . industrial designer : well , not everybody has uh has uh a p_c_ at home . well the most most people have , user interface : well , at industrial designer : but not not everybody user interface : uh you can go back to the shop industrial designer : and user interface : and uh they marketing : yeah , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like a s kind of service centre . user interface : yeah , ser o industrial designer : yeah , maybe something like service cen marketing : yeah . user interface : and they can download it for you . industrial designer : or you could well you could s actually look at the place-holder you talked about earlier , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and you could probably uh make a connection to uh an telephone line or a internet connection . user interface : yeah . well already digital information is sent t to the the standards , tv uh connections , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you can see what 's uh programme is on on the new uh channels , so maybe j they we can send that information along with standard tv uh industrial designer : well then then it 's be uh back to the building a receiving uh well uh if it 's actually worth it to build it in , user interface : receiving . oh yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we could actually look at into it , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but i dunno , it it would be uh bringing more costs uh with with it user interface : difficult . yeah . industrial designer : and marketing : i i think it 's uh most cheap or cheapest to just do the updates uh at the service centre or at the shop . user interface : yeah yeah , uh s i think some i think it 's good idea , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that would be probably best , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like when you when you buy a tv you just ask well i 'll marketing : it 's it 's it 's not a lot of work , just one uh docking station where you put it in , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : press start , bling bling , updated . industrial designer : yeah , that would be best , yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . you do n't buy a tv every week , new teev so . user interface : okay , let 's uh save this in the meanwhile uh industrial designer : no no . exactly , so user interface : um m for which one are we going ? my mistake . marketing : let 's vote . user interface : that one or uh industrial designer : yeah , my vote goes out to the right . user interface : your vote and your marketing : my vote too . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : marketing : and your vote ? user interface : well , i was uh doubting about which one to take , but uh you 've convinced me that uh if you di display buttons about the same as they would look on a normal um remote all elderly people will know what to do . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : and also like a clapping uh li like device that uh pops open . user interface : opens up is too difficult industrial designer : flips open . user interface : or uh marketing : uh too difficult , um maybe uh it 's easier to break it . project manager : n yeah . user interface : break it , i do n't get marketing : yeah , th th th that i uh yeah . project manager : it 's very sensitive . user interface : oh so yeah . project manager : marketing : like my telephone , it 's uh it 's sensitive too . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . project manager : okay well uh it 's almost at the end . so we have now a lunch break , finally , yeah . uh after the lunch break uh it 's back to uh individual work , once again uh thirty minutes . uh i will put my minutes uh i have updated them so uh s they 're updated in the shared folder too . marketing : thirty minutes ? project manager : thirty minutes , the marketing : how minutes ? project manager : failure . uh uh the specifi uh specific instructions for the next uh meeting you will all will receive uh at the uh the the email . i do n't think i can uh say much about it , so uh uh wait for your email and uh hopefully you get it done uh in the in the thirty minutes , and i w will see you after the lunch break and the thirty minutes . marketing : one question , project manager : yeah ? marketing : uh how late do we have to get back be back here ? project manager : uh well uh thirty minutes . user interface : a quarter to one maybe ? project manager : uh , yeah . marketing : thirty minutes lunch break ? project manager : thirty minutes lunch break , yeah . oh . forty five ? user interface : okay . marketing : i thought forty five . project manager : uh then would it be uh one o'clock . marketing : yeah . yeah . okay . project manager : or we we ask our personal coach . okay . marketing : yeah . project manager : thank you . thank you , uh that was a very uh good session i think , user interface : project manager : we uh we user interface : yeah , is it possible to store this on the share documents or what marketing : yeah , me too . project manager : uh ye well marketing : save as . project manager : yeah , because uh all uh things are uh stored in smart board dot uh x_d_k_ marketing : yeah , v project manager : and that 's in marketing : but but you can open a from your pr from your laptop . user interface : 'kay , save it as an image on the res marketing : yeah , maybe . save as . industrial designer : export . maybe not export function . marketing : no . export . project manager : well i can i can uh marketing : export h_t_m_l_ . user interface : no , and use an image if possible . marketing : huh , image ? user interface : j_ peg . industrial designer : g_ yeah , j_ peg . user interface : j_ peg . yeah , it 's better marketing : paper size a_ four . uh screen size . in this directory . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : n oh . user interface : oh yeah , it 's not connected to the project manager : you all uh have the the questionnaire again about uh the after work . user interface : to our p_c_s . marketing : no ? yeah , it is connected . user interface : it 's connected ? marketing : yeah , i think so . project manager : deskt huh . no . industrial designer : to room . i 'll just uh saved in my documents . marketing : oh . industrial designer : yeah in my own uh in my own messenger . user interface : yeah . project manager : project documents , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : it gives the na oh . yes . project manager : okay , industrial designer : okay , nice . project manager : thank you . user interface : the questionnaire , fill in uh we fill out d after lunch or uh project manager : uh well , it 's it 's simply filling oh no , it 's uh it 's also filling out no , i 'd do it after lunch i think . user interface : okay . marketing : industrial designer : aye , cheers . project manager : i 'm hungry , so do it after lunch . thank you all . marketing : thank you . project manager : you 're welcome . user interface : we can leave the p_c_ on i think , yeah and return to the marketing : yeah , of course . project manager : yeah . well i bring it to my uh personal room . user interface : yeah , bring to i got ta bring it home . marketing : to my exave executive project manager : my executive uh big room with the with the panting . user interface : a big office . industrial designer : marketing : aye . yeah . okay . project manager : </s>
<s> what did project manager mention when giving general arrangements at the very beginning of the meeting ? </s> project manager : a minute please , my uh laptop is uh oh , there it is , thank you . so welcome back . at the functional design meeting um the plan is uh that uh each one of you , so not me but only you uh will uh present uh the the things you worked on uh the last uh half hour . i will uh take minutes and will put uh the minutes that i have uh at the end of the session in the shared folder . also the minutes of the previous session are also in the shared folder now , so you can read that uh now or afterwards . um uh i had an email from the from the management board marketing : project manager : uh , i do n't know if you a al also uh received it , but there were four points uh which uh i think are very important . first one is uh they think that uh teletext teletext becomes outdated uh and internet will be the the main uh focus . uh second one is also important uh , because it 's one of the discussion points of the previous session . uh the remote control shou should onl only be used for the television , so it uh not gon na it 's not gon na be a multi-purpose remote control , so uh that 's one thing to keep in mind . user interface : marketing : project manager : uh second , and i think that 's important for the marketing uh expert , uh the current uh customers uh are in the age group group of uh forty years and older , but with this uh new remote uh they uh will uh would like to reach uh a group uh younger than uh forty . uh and uh i think to keep in mind , but not really uh for now is that they uh want the the the slogan and the and the logo uh to uh to be recognised more in the remote . marketing : </s>
<s> what did marketing discuss about improving new remote control features based on the questionnaire ? </s> marketing : okay . 'kay , welcome . i have some uh new findings on uh marketing expert level , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : which i will show you . the method i used was um giving orders to our usability lab uh to do a questionnaire . um one hundred respondents were involved and my marketing uh department generated a report with a lot of results . um , these were a couple of findings , first page of three . um , we have three audiences of two audiences , i 'm sorry . uh the first one , this scale , from sixteen to forty five age . uh the second one is from sixty four uh forty six to sixty five . um , as you can see here , the market share for the first audience is about sixty percent um sixty five . uh second audience audience is uh thirty five percent . mm and some interests from the from the age groups , uh it seems like the young users of remote controls really like the fancy uh new technology stuff , like uh an lcd screen on the remote control , um speech recognition . i do n't think that 's uh really appropriate . um , and when you see uh the audience , the age is going up uh yeah , they do n't really want it anymore , at least the new technologies . second findings out of the questionnaire um are the opinion the opinions uh of the audience about current remote controls . first point is , seventy five percent of the users find the most repo remote controls very ugly , uh and eighty percent of the users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy . so that 's maybe something for the user interface uh designer . okay , third findings . according to the frequency of use versus importance investigation , um following buttons are most important . um , i will tell something about the way this uh this test was , yeah , done . um , persons were asked uh what the buttons were uh they use most , how much an hour , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and uh in the second table the importance of those buttons . um , when you multiply them , you get the these three points . switching channels , um yeah , that 's pretty uh pretty normal , that 's what you do with a remote control . um the second , teletext , uh and the third , uh volume controls . um , i think it 's good uh that we know what the user want wants , uh at least the these three points have to be uh very clear . project manager : but it 's strange that the the manage board the management board said that the teletext will be uh outdated by the internet . so that that 's strange . marketing : yeah , okay . yeah , okay , but uh at the moment uh teletext is yeah , th the best thing you can get uh on tv , like getting information . project manager : yeah , okay . yeah . marketing : so uh , when you ask people , what do they use , they use teletext and not the internet on a remote control . project manager : okay . yeah , okay . marketing : that 's ridiculous . project manager : yeah . marketing : that 's a ne i it it 's a new technology , project manager : yeah . marketing : but it 's not incorporated right now . okay , my personal preferences . um , i think we should aim at the uh audience from sixteen to forty five . mm , first of all um it 's the biggest share , the biggest audience , sixty five percent . uh second , i think you will get the most revenue from i from it . um , yeah , people from sixteen to forty five watch a lot of tv , more than uh people who are el uh elder . um second point , we have to impro improve the most used functions , as i said here , switching channels , teletext and volume controls . third point um that came out of the uh of the questionnaire , uh people used to uh get lost off the remote controller , so maybe it 's an idea for us uh to design ex kind of placeholder uh on side of the , yeah , of the tv project manager : yeah , that 's a cool idea . marketing : where you can put the the remote control in . um , that 's about it , i think . yeah . industrial designer : when you mentioned uh improving functions , what uh what do you mean by that what what are you think about ? marketing : uh not not the r not the functions , industrial designer : uh , the funtionability . marketing : but uh it came out that a lot of buttons were n't even used uh on a remote control . so you can have a remote control full of buttons , a hundreds hundreds of buttons , but if you do n't use them , yeah it 's project manager : yeah . industrial designer : ah okay , so focusing more on the used buttons . marketing : yeah , they have to be on it industrial designer : yeah . marketing : j just to t to get it done if necessary , user interface : marketing : but um the most used buttons uh have to be bigger or industrial designer : could you use perhaps uh one button for multiple functions , like example pressing it in longer makes it switch to an different function for example . marketing : yeah , perhaps . industrial designer : thank you . marketing : just for the minor functions perhaps . industrial designer : yeah , ma perhaps , just just an idea . marketing : just to get less buttons on the remote control , to make it easier and quicker to learn . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah ? 'kay , that 's it . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think of the remote control with bluetooth and other new technology when discussing the possibility of applying different technologies ? </s> industrial designer : uh yeah yeah , i 'll go , sure . right uh , i 'll be uh explaining a bit about uh working design about uh the project . well uh what i did was i dissected uh uh current remote controls and um i viewed how how they w looked , how they worked , uh what kind of components are involved , and how they are connected together . and uh after that i put up a scheme about how uh these things are organised and i 'll show it to you in in a in a few seconds . and i 'll explain a bit about uh how it works and how we could uh build one and why i think several possibilities uh that we discussed in the earlier meeting falls off . um right . uh well what i did was uh i i checked uh remote controls and the uh remote controls of today are all infrared , not like all probably know . and the thing about that is um the remote controls uh have to act as a tv or uh a stereo or something , and those uh have a transmitter that 's also focused on infrared , so if we want to uh build uh mm a remote control uh with bluetooth for instance then uh the tv should have bluetooth too in order to communicate , so that would mean extra cost for the user and thus uh that 's that would n't mean a a cheap uh remote control for us . so that 's probably why most controls are still infrared . furthermore they all have uh a a very simple structure , so that would probably uh mean lower costs and uh i that could mean for us a good thing uh 'cause uh well we we should be able to build a relatively cheap uh a cheap uh remote . well uh as i mentioned ready , we have some bluetooth well it may be possible , but uh i figured it would n't be possible in within our budget , but that 's not for me to decide , but that 's maybe something for marketing to look into . f because uh well my personal opinion is uh is not to do uh bluetooth or or radio waves , although marketing : what do you think about uh incorporating bluetooth or a radio uh receiver uh in the place-holder next to the tv , connected to the tv ? industrial designer : yeah , actually i have t marketing : so it 's in the wrong product . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , i actually i figured that would be that would be rather nice , but then you 'd still have the uh the infrared function . so in in theory you 'd actually just move the problem , marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : but uh what i did uh think about was when you mentioned about the uh the cup-holder , is why not uh introduce a speech function like where is the remote . if somebody says , where is the remote , then it goes uh beep uh beep beep beep or something , user interface : marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer propose to build a new remote control when discussing the bluetooth technology and the functions of remote control ? </s> industrial designer : uh yeah yeah , i 'll go , sure . right uh , i 'll be uh explaining a bit about uh working design about uh the project . well uh what i did was i dissected uh uh current remote controls and um i viewed how how they w looked , how they worked , uh what kind of components are involved , and how they are connected together . and uh after that i put up a scheme about how uh these things are organised and i 'll show it to you in in a in a few seconds . and i 'll explain a bit about uh how it works and how we could uh build one and why i think several possibilities uh that we discussed in the earlier meeting falls off . um right . uh well what i did was uh i i checked uh remote controls and the uh remote controls of today are all infrared , not like all probably know . and the thing about that is um the remote controls uh have to act as a tv or uh a stereo or something , and those uh have a transmitter that 's also focused on infrared , so if we want to uh build uh mm a remote control uh with bluetooth for instance then uh the tv should have bluetooth too in order to communicate , so that would mean extra cost for the user and thus uh that 's that would n't mean a a cheap uh remote control for us . so that 's probably why most controls are still infrared . furthermore they all have uh a a very simple structure , so that would probably uh mean lower costs and uh i that could mean for us a good thing uh 'cause uh well we we should be able to build a relatively cheap uh a cheap uh remote . well uh as i mentioned ready , we have some bluetooth well it may be possible , but uh i figured it would n't be possible in within our budget , but that 's not for me to decide , but that 's maybe something for marketing to look into . f because uh well my personal opinion is uh is not to do uh bluetooth or or radio waves , although marketing : what do you think about uh incorporating bluetooth or a radio uh receiver uh in the place-holder next to the tv , connected to the tv ? industrial designer : yeah , actually i have t marketing : so it 's in the wrong product . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , i actually i figured that would be that would be rather nice , but then you 'd still have the uh the infrared function . so in in theory you 'd actually just move the problem , marketing : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : but uh what i did uh think about was when you mentioned about the uh the cup-holder , is why not uh introduce a speech function like where is the remote . if somebody says , where is the remote , then it goes uh beep uh beep beep beep or something , user interface : marketing : yeah . industrial designer : i dunno , maybe uh maybe something to look into , i dunno uh what the cost that something like that would be . but it may be uh may be something to explore . uh i 'll i 'll just explain a bit of the components . uh first you have the energy source . the energy source would be a battery , simple uh battery uh that you can find anywhere . i figured that would be best , 'cause when the battery uh stops functioning uh we could just uh use you could just go out and buy a new one . so we did n't and we do n't have to do all uh to be too complicated about that . uh the energy source is connected to the infrared button , but uh the infrared button uh works only via the chip and the subcomponent to uh the switch there is a switch uh between these . when the switch is pressed in a w on this this case it switches a button , when a button is prush pushed in , uh a electric current goes through here , and in uh immediately , a l a bulb lights up uh displaying to the user that something has happened . that 's uh that 's so the h user wo n't be um thinking , well uh did the button be pressed , w what happened uh . or i press button but nothing 's happening on the tv , so is is something wrong or something . so that 's just to uh to to explain the of to to uh make it clearer to the user . uh w well the signal goes via chip that 's translated into uh electric sig uh electronic signals and then it 's processed and then it 's sent to the infrared bulb where it will be uh uh received on the receiving end . and those uh interpreted by the device , well in this case the television . uh well my personal preferences here , well we have to keep it simple . not too many uh gadgets and functions , just like you said uh well the most users n uh you have a lot of buttons and you u u use you do n't use them , so why why should we invent uh w spend more time on those . uh i i think we should stick by with infrared transmitting and uh no receiving . so uh no input from the television . so i think we should n't be uh spending time on um teletext and st things like that , because when you uh want teletext on uh infrared you 'd have to build in a receiver too , and so in order to receive the signals from uh what 's on tv and such . so i figure that would be uh spending too much money and time and marketing : um , yeah , maybe another problem uh , i think current tvs can even send infrared . industrial designer : yes , but what should we uh s i i i f i agree with you , but should we spend money or and time on building a receiver into the uh remote control ? 'cause that would be i mean extra components , extra designs , um larger g uh remote control . marketing : mm-hmm . yeah . industrial designer : these all uh all stuff that we have to take in account . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so i i my personal opinion is no no no receiver at all . um , well marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we should uh look into the design and the functionability . like i said , uh use one button for instance for m multiple functions , or well uh just hide the few buttons o of switching it open or something , the usual uh stuff . and uh do n't overbuild , we should n't make a big uh remote control for simple functions , but we we should stick to the basics . so that was my uh my personal opinion . and that was my uh my presentation uh </s>
<s> what did user interface think about the features of the new remote control when discussing the technical functions of the design and usability functions ? </s> user interface : if you want to change the volume or channel that is always accessible and easy and other functions um that are not so important um well you we should consider just not using them or at least putting them somewhere on the remote where they 're not in the way for the for the most important functions . marketing : yeah . uh , i think the idea uh about uh touch screen um is very good . um , because recently uh i saw news item on tv um about uh new telephones uh for elder people . um , they have like a touch screen with uh really big pictures on it like uh uh call uh hang-up , um and that 's a big ad advantage i think , because one the one hand uh you make the remote control compatible for elder users just by uh scaling up the pictures or something . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : it 's uh very visual intended . what was i to say more ? user interface : maybe that 's an option . um keep the primary buttons visible . uh make a remote that fits easily in the hands marketing : yeah . user interface : and for some design issues uh well , put a logo on it and maybe use it uh in some aesthetic uh aesthetic form . project manager : user interface : but uh th the important buttons m make them always accessible and pushable and clear industrial designer : user interface : and maybe use a touch screen , or if that 's uh will become too difficult just uh like televi some o older telephones use a l uh maybe it 's possible to to flip them open and uh just expand the number of options that are normally visible . um marketing : yeah okay , but but if you pick the the idea , the left idea user interface : yeah . marketing : then what 's gon na be displayed on the touch screen ? industrial designer : the extra functions . user interface : the extra functions , you uh you just see a menu from system functions or teletext functions , and you just choose one , marketing : yeah , but l like menu functions or industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and then all all the options will become available marketing : ah okay . user interface : and you just c s yeah t scroll through them . industrial designer : would n't it be better to make just one big touch screen , uh one one small uh touch screen uh applet marketing : yeah , i think so . industrial designer : and uh i 'll just make um uh let 's say fifteen buttons on it , and uh we have three of those , uh actually just uh menus with sub-menus , with or sub-items , sub-functions . user interface : well um marketing : yeah . user interface : then i 'd like to make a proposal . marketing : user interface : if you make one big touch screen , industrial designer : yes . user interface : use the same concept as here , keep the buttons always available industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : and use the lower part of the touch screen for the rest . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : like like the ipod idea that that we just saw . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss at the end of the meeting when summarizing the whole meeting ? </s> project manager : um each time i uh i had a sort of uh summary on what you told and uh what you personal think . uh so that can be uh can be read out . uh a f a few things i uh i noticed uh were um moment . ooh . uh th the the main points in uh this uh uh in this uh meeting is i think uh how uh it 's going to look uh with uh we must keep it simple , but have the opportunity to uh have more options and have them uh hidden or something , so they do n't uh you do n't have a big uh thing full of uh buttons or uh um and uh the point that uh you uh wan na use one uh controller uh for uh uh hypothetically each television , so you must uh the the the the functions , know , like the menus or the the parental control must be all uh by the done by the remote control and not by the television . i think that 's the point what uh user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : we discussed . marketing : yeah , yeah , some of them . the menus uh are not identical for all th for all tvs , so you have to display it on one uh tv . user interface : well you can use um when you uh how do you call it , s um synchronized , the um remote and the tv , marketing : yeah , but that 's not possible . user interface : then there 's always , there are always uh possibilities to change the colour and the brightness and the volume marketing : mm-hmm , mm yeah . user interface : and um well maybe we can look out if there 's options that the remote um in its memory can see what kinda tv it is , from ah , it 's a philips , this and this and that , and then give the options that are capable the capable from the t project manager : yeah , but you have uh uh an marketing : add th that that 's an opportunity . project manager : yeah , but you have an international market range , so you have i think a big range of user interface : well there are universal d um um remotes project manager : yeah . user interface : and they all have a functionality for all the tvs , uh so this would n't be a extra feature to incorporate the men menus of these . project manager : okay . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : but they marketing : but project manager : and it 's not too complex to do it . industrial designer : well they uh they all have to be programmed to fit your tv project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and that that is bit of a tricky job . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : i actually use one of those when they are they are kinda kinda troublesome , but but the thing is whe when you uh start uh building something like this you have to build a receiver into the uh t into the remotes , because uh in order for the remote to process something from the tv , like uh to synchronise and you have to send and receive , user interface : yeah . well yeah . mm-hmm . oh um mo industrial designer : and that 's well marketing : no no no . user interface : no , you can just say uh the c marketing : he he he he me he means just just one other thing . project manager : just build it in . user interface : yeah . marketing : uh , with the current remote controls , the universal ones , um you have to press yeah , you have to press a code for tv . industrial designer : yeah . yes . user interface : in codes , y you you get a b a book with codes . you look up , i have a philips h_ fifty five industrial designer : yeah . user interface : and it says press code four five five marketing : yeah . industrial designer : oh , okay , yeah , sure , uh user interface : and you press code four five five on the uh in the remote industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah . user interface : and it displays all your uh menu options . industrial designer : oh , yeah yeah , sure , that would be possible , yeah . marketing : yeah . now we uh just connect uh the tv type uh to a set of options , in just just in the memory , user interface : memory in the in the remote . industrial designer : profiles . marketing : so that if you yeah , like profile , so that if you uh touch in like uh one four one zero kind of tv uh industrial designer : yeah . marketing : the memory uh pops up the options . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , that would be possible . yeah , sure . project manager : okay . marketing : i th do n't think that 's uh that takes a lot of storage space or some just varia variables . industrial designer : no , that would n't be uh user interface : yeah , well um industrial designer : yeah , a few variables . user interface : if you look at the um manuals from universal uh remotes , there are maybe um three four hundreds tvs at maximum . if you have all of them , all the old and new tvs summed up , marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : so uh i think uh it is possible . industrial designer : ah it is . it is definitely po marketing : but , on the other hand on the other hand , uh if you have a remote and buy a new tv that is n't incorporated in the remote project manager : we have five minutes to go . user interface : yeah . well then you have to buy a new one , it 's very good for marketing marketing : new remote ? user interface : maybe , or an update , software update . marketing : a firmware upgrade or something , user interface : firmware update , you say . industrial designer : yeah , firmware upgrade . marketing : but from where ? ah . maybe w industrial designer : that 's maybe the cup holder . marketing : no m may no , user interface : yeah . marketing : maybe we can incorporate some kind of uh u_s_b_ or a firewire connection , so that you can uh connect it to the p_c_ and download the newest firmware from uh from the internet . industrial designer : well , not everybody has uh has uh a p_c_ at home . well the most most people have , user interface : well , at industrial designer : but not not everybody user interface : uh you can go back to the shop industrial designer : and user interface : and uh they marketing : yeah , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : like a s kind of service centre . user interface : yeah , ser o industrial designer : yeah , maybe something like service cen marketing : yeah . user interface : and they can download it for you . industrial designer : or you could well you could s actually look at the place-holder you talked about earlier , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and you could probably uh make a connection to uh an telephone line or a internet connection . user interface : yeah . well already digital information is sent t to the the standards , tv uh connections , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : you can see what 's uh programme is on on the new uh channels , so maybe j they we can send that information along with standard tv uh industrial designer : well then then it 's be uh back to the building a receiving uh well uh if it 's actually worth it to build it in , user interface : receiving . oh yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : we could actually look at into it , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : but i dunno , it it would be uh bringing more costs uh with with it user interface : difficult . yeah . industrial designer : and marketing : i i think it 's uh most cheap or cheapest to just do the updates uh at the service centre or at the shop . user interface : yeah yeah , uh s i think some i think it 's good idea , yeah . industrial designer : yeah , that would be probably best , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : like when you when you buy a tv you just ask well i 'll marketing : it 's it 's it 's not a lot of work , just one uh docking station where you put it in , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : press start , bling bling , updated . industrial designer : yeah , that would be best , yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : yeah . you do n't buy a tv every week , new teev so . user interface : okay , let 's uh save this in the meanwhile uh industrial designer : no no . exactly , so user interface : um m for which one are we going ? my mistake . marketing : let 's vote . user interface : that one or uh industrial designer : yeah , my vote goes out to the right . user interface : your vote and your marketing : my vote too . project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : marketing : and your vote ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : oh . okay . thanks for coming to this meeting . s how we doing on our remote ? user interface : project manager : we have some we have some ideas and some uh ideas for what people want . user interface : uh we yes s i 've lo marketing : user interface : i 've done the role that i was asked to do anyway . project manager : yeah . user interface : i think . marketing : project manager : alright let 's just go over the agenda real quick for this meeting . see if i ca n't get things uh moving along here a little bit better . um i 'll go over what we went over last time , which should n't take long . then i believe each of you have a presentation . um i 've was sent a a couple more requirements for our remote , what they want . um then we can come to a conclusion on uh what we want the remote to do , um and how it 's going to do it hopefully . and uh then we 'll have the closing . um which we 'll have forty minutes for . uh let 's see , the last meeting we went over um who was responsible for what . i 'm responsible for leading the meetings , keeping the notes , uh and coming up with the final presentation . um corinne is our marketing expert . she 's gon na figure out what what um the consumer wants . um ryan is our user interface designer . and manuel is the industrial designer . so you 're gon na come up with the ideas ryan , and you 're gon na pick 'em apart . user interface : project manager : um we decided our remote , uh we want it to be a universal remote uh that everyone would want . um we want to be modern , um fun , different . uh it needs to be sturdy , um easy to find , so we gon na have that locator function . um and we want to be different . um and then we went over a couple of different ideas . ball-shaped phone . the keyboard shape . um we decided that it should probably be one-handed . something we could use with one hand . um and that was our last meeting . so um why do n't um do each of you have a presentation ? okay . i 'll hand it off to you and um does anyone do you wan na go first ? marketing : sure . project manager : so we can maybe see what uh what the people want . industrial designer : marketing : what was it ? function ? industrial designer : eight . f_ eight . marketing : f_ eight ? well . how do i get it user interface : slide show . project manager : to go to the next one ? marketing : oh right right right . project manager : yeah you click on that guy . marketing : that one ? project manager : yeah . marketing : okay . alright . well , this is my report , which is going to be based pretty much on a survey that i was sent . oh gosh , i 've no idea . g user interface : just press the arrow keys i think . usually goes to it . marketing : okay . project manager : marketing : sorry i actually need to see something else on my screen . project manager : marketing : project manager : hit f_ eight again . marketing : yeah . project manager : i think . marketing : and then ? again ? project manager : yeah . you want it to be on both screens , or just just yours ? marketing : no i want something else on mine . is that possible ? project manager : yeah but i think you have to hit escape . and then you can yeah . marketing : okay but now you do n't have that . project manager : oh hit f_ eight again . marketing : sorry guys . project manager : i know . i did the same thing . marketing : project manager : and then it should come up here shortly . 'kay . marketing : so is there no way i can give you the slideshow and project manager : i think oh give us the slideshow and something on your screen ? marketing : yeah . yeah . oh well . project manager : i 'm not sure . you could maybe minimise that screen and then have them both up at the same time i think . marketing : yeah . it 's okay . okay . um so first of all , the method that i used was by doing some marketing research , industrial designer : marketing : by um doing research on some interviews that were conducted . and then some internet research . and i was sent a report that was i think there were a hundred remote users that they interviewed . and so i will show you some of the results from that , which i think will be helpful . um okay here are some of the findings . they said that the users dislike the look and feel of their current remote controls . and seventy five percent of the users find their remote controls to be ugly . which is a fairly significant number i would say . and eighty percent of the users would be willing to spend more money if they could get a remote that would look fancy . so i think that earlier we were onto something when we were talking about having it be a modern cool look , i think that 's definitely important . um they say that current remote controls do not match well the operating behaviour of the user . seventy five percent of users said they zap a lot . and if anyone could clarify what that means ? industrial designer : just jus user interface : is is it j just just marketing : zap , does that just mean like changing the channel ? user interface : just using it industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . um and fifty percent of the users say that they 're only using ten percent of the buttons on their remote control . and there was something else , they kept track of the frequency per hour in using certain buttons . and some of them it looks like barely need to be included at all . of course channel selection is used the most frequently . and then teletext was the next . volume and then power . and then audio settings and screen settings and channel settings were practically never used . so i think we could definitely eliminate or somehow combine a lot of the functions into one button . um the biggest user frustrations , as we said fifty percent of people find that their remotes are lost somewhere , and so i think a tracking device of some sort would be a good idea . they said it take thirty four percent said it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote . and twenty six percent said that the controls are bad for r_s_i_ . user interface : a repetitive strain injury . marketing : what is it ? user interface : just repetitive strain injury . i think . that 's what i guess . marketing : okay . okay . and so bas okay . um as far as speech recognition goes , um the younger group looks like they 're all for it . from the fifteen to twenty five age group over ninety percent said they would pay more . and it kind of just went down incrementally . the groups at the older they get it looks like the less willing they are to pay , so maybe we could discuss this and think and decide if we think it 's worth investing in this . at least if we 're targeting the younger groups . and so in conclusion . some things that i drew from this are that i think we were correct . we definitely need to focus on a new modern appearance , since so many people seem to be concerned about the ugliness of their remote control . um a multifunctional remote could be a good thing to explore . so you only have one rather than five different remotes sitting all over your room . uh we need to simplify the remote and reduce the number of buttons , get rid of the ones that do n't seem to be serving much purpose . and then lastly i thought that maybe we could discuss the idea of speech recognition . and that 's it . project manager : 'kay . very nice . now we actually have some ideas of what what people want , what we should focus on . uh marketing : project manager : wait can i look at that real quick ? . marketing : oh yeah . sorry did you guys get time to write everything that you needed ? user interface : yeah . marketing : 'kay . user interface : having just listened to what corinne just said , i 'll draw on some of the things as well . some things that sort of relevant to what i wan na say . 'kay so i 'm just gon na yeah approach the technical functions design . um the method i used was to explore the uh technical functions of a remote control . marketing : user interface : and t s simplest approach that i came to is is to change , programme and operate an electronic device remotely . i mean that 's an obvious thing to say , but it 's not attached to the device that you want to control . um i had some things sent to me . not very much . to look at similar devices . um defined in some them . and then the personal preferences that i will suggest . um we discussed a universal one . um like it 's just been brought up again then . but i think a universal remote control is actually quite a difficult object to design , and po possibly within maybe the budget that we do it , um because you 'd need to know all the spef specifications of a all the like electronic companies . i 'm not sure have you ever come across a universal remote control yourself , but you have to i they 're a nightmare to use . you have to set them , reset them to everything . um and that would only add buttons . whereas i think the aim is to take away buttons . so i think it 'd be better maybe to concentrate on maybe just a universal one for tvs . um or maybe just one that you could we could design and then different people , manufacturers could use it to set to their specifications , if if the aim is to get something that 's unique in design . um okay here here 's just two pictures of remote controls . they 're just simple tv remote controls . but one is uh user-centred . that is the one on the left . and you can straight away see there 's less buttons . and the other one is engineer-centred where that 's more uh specified for the sort of the elaborate piece of equipment it 's trying to control um which appeals more to the product that we want , and on what the have said and the market research and stuff probably looking at something that should be user-centred . fewer buttons , simpler to use , and if ten percent um is hidden away if ten percent is what 's used , maybe the other fifty percent , the buttons that are used very rarely like programming , they could be hidden maybe under some remote controls you might have come across have maybe a little flip thi thing where they 're hidden away . and the main buttons are the ones you or the ones you come across . um and finally , um uh sort i 've sort of covered that , our product i think should be user interface orientated . um like i said to concentrate on tv remote control , a universal remote might be too complex . um and as what it , the major findings market researchers have said , it 's the image and the appearance that people di dislike . so that we should concentrate on something that would set a trend . and that 's it . industrial designer : cable there . thank you . project manager : what was your last conclusion on that one ? focus on uh the i user interface : on something on the image of it . project manager : the image of it . user interface : uh the f the actual design . project manager : 'kay . good . good . industrial designer : okay . gon na talk to you about the working design of the interiors basically which is what dictates the design the both the interface basically and the outer appearance because this is all the stuff that needs to go in there . right . so unfortunately the people who were supposed to do this little presentation for me obviously were too drunk to actually accomplish it , marketing : project manager : industrial designer : so um i 'm going to do a lot of the stuff on the board . um just this is the basic basic premise of a remote control . um the basic function is to send messages to another system . okay so much is clear . an energy source feeds an integrated circuit , like a chip , that can compose messages . often in the form of infrared bits . this is the most mostly used . um there 's uh also some sound systems but infrared is the better or the more more used system . um parts are cheaper as well . a user interface controls the chip and accordingly the messages . this is where my people screwed up basically . marketing : industrial designer : so i 'm going to explain that on the board rather . um what we have is different components that obviously need to go in there . we 'll start with an energy source . right . um which is usually a battery right ? since it 's not feasible to add a cable to that . this energy source of course is connected to the the user interface itself . uh which can be buttons , whatever , which in fact controls a chip . right ? this is the user interface and there we have the chip . um the way this goes normally is that this chip then controls an infrared lamp . that sends out the signal . of course the signal differs accordingly . um depending on what the chip tells the infrared lan lamp . and of course that 's controlled , the chip itself is controlled by the user interface . the way you normally normally do it is that you add a little device such as a lamp to the whole thing as well , so that you know that it 's working basically . you press something , you get a response . which is also comparatively um important on one of those devices . now this , what we 're talking about here , or what i think should be discussed are these two components mostly . the the uh energy source for one thing can be altered . what we probably can not alter is of course the infrared , the sending device basically , the infrared lamp . we can not change the chip which controls the infrared lamp . right ? these two are components that we have to use , and these are dictated by the whole function of the whole thing . um the lamp can be put onto the desi the device . it c it does n't have to be there . this can be discussed as well . the user interface . that 's something we can also discuss . um as we 've heard uh speech recognition is the hype obviously in the moment . speech recognition um interface , we do n't know that . or if we just do the usual button thing . or we have a touch pad or something like that that 's something we can discuss . and of course the energy source . batteries . solar cells . who knows ? of course it 's always a question whether these these components are in fact available cheap enough , developed enough . but that 's like i s i suppose rather up to marketing , and not to project manager : so we could the the industrial designer : to the industrial design department . project manager : the more complex we make it of course , the more expensive industrial designer : expensive it 's gon na be get uh . yeah . project manager : but people have said that they would well younger generations of people have said that they would pay more for a speech recognition remote . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so possibly it might be worth the investment . industrial designer : right . user interface : i think speech recognition was uh one of those things where um they have to be really good for them to work . 'cause sometimes you find yourself just saying things over and o if it 's on your phone . marketing : yeah . project manager : i agree . well user interface : and you need to sort of take into light languages and then different dialects i suppose as well . project manager : i myself i find , when you , h when there 's something like spee speech recognition . like uh you call on the phone and you try to change your telephone or power or something . sometimes they have a a speech recognition on the other end , user interface : yeah . project manager : and you say one for this , and you find yours , like you said , saying the same thing over and over and over . i find myself , especially if i 'm in a crowd of people , looking really silly . user interface : yeah . marketing : project manager : so maybe if you 're sitting on your couch with a bunch of people then you know , you user interface : and wou i do n't know if would would you want to keep saying stuff if you were watching stuff . if you were watching something would you sort of be wanting project manager : volume up . volume down . change the channel , you know channel up , channel down ? user interface : yeah . project manager : i i do n't know . marketing : another thing about these figures is ninety one percent of the youngest age groups said they 'd do it , but probably a lot of them that 's actually their parents money . like i do n't know if they would actually go out and purchase this themselves , a fifteen year old you know . user interface : i think as well it 'd be j the gimmick factor for the younger people . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : but practically i do n't think it 's project manager : it 's a , it 's a gimmick factor that they like at first , and user interface : yeah . it 'll wear off . marketing : gets old yeah . project manager : okay . um let 's see here . user interface : do you wan na put your cord back in ? project manager : yeah i guess so . industrial designer : oh right . project manager : trade you . industrial designer : go . project manager : now i was sent a couple of things to modify our uh new requirements . um the remote 's only gon na be for the television , which is good because we already decided y your your research showed that uh not only is a universal remote more complicated , it 's more cost , more costly . and your re uh research showed that you know most of the people do n't even use it . i think uh you said fifty percent of the people only use half the or ten percent of the buttons . so if we remove the universal remote then that solves that problem . um no teletext . um so we do n't have to worry about that . um but we do have to use the the company wants us to incorporate the corporate colour and our slogan , which is we put the fashion in electronics . and our corporate colours are grey and yellow . and we could probably get away with black too but so those are the three um the three new requirements that that i was told we need to use . um from all all three of your uh presentations , i think that we were on the right track a lot in our last meeting . we want something that looks good . um we want something that 's simple . we want something that you can find easily . um and the speech recognition i i guess is kind of uh give or take . it 's gon na cost more . s the young the younger people say that they like it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : but um it 's probably , i would say , probably not worth the investment at this point in time . so maybe we should just do away with speech recognition . um and that way we can focus on our form . user interface : i did have have a thought about the sort of the tracking thing . is that if it came with maybe a holder or holster , whatever you wan na call it . um that you you should put it back in . your remote . but if you do n't put it back in , you press something like a little button on that , and that just sort of sends out a beep to find where it is or something . just by infrared . that should n't be too complex i would 've thought . project manager : that 'd be , that 'd be good if we were going with our our ball . user interface : yeah it would be quite good . project manager : or or with you know i guess with any form that that would be good . user interface : the ball could sit on a project manager : you know that could be the charger . for you know user interface : yeah . project manager : we could use rechargeable batteries in the remote . and that would be or solar . or you know however , however you wanted to go about it , the holder could also be the charging unit . um user interface : yeah . project manager : with the locator button . um and if it were the ball you 'd no longer have to have a flat space on it . user interface : yeah . project manager : um like industrial designer : you still do . project manager : we still have the how to hold on to it industrial designer : you s you still w yeah . you put it on t on the couch table . project manager : it 's gon na roll away . industrial designer : while you 're watching , marketing : rolls away industrial designer : it 's gon na roll off . so marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that 's not an issue really . project manager : um so i guess after the meeting we 'll have some questionnaires . and uh and some summaries for for what 's going on . um then we 'll take lunch . then we can come back and uh work on our individual work . um i 'll do the minutes . uh let 's see . it looks like you 're already on your way for uh working with the components . um chips , the what chips we need industrial designer : . project manager : and what uh you know how to power it and whatnot . user interface concept , we want it to be something simple . user interface : yeah . project manager : um minimal number of buttons . i guess our , i guess our main um main thing that we should focus on until then is probably deciding on a certain look , you know . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : right . that 's project manager : did you have time earlier to to work on that . did you guys feel you have enough time in between our meetings to get everything done that you need to get done ? marketing : not really . user interface : i 'll yeah i 'll have a look , try look at the actual appearance in the next break . project manager : 'kay . user interface : i th i i do still think it needs to be something that is ultimately one-handed . the ball is probably not a good idea . and even something that 's held like that might be difficult . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so that i think it still has to be a variation . on maybe a a rect on a rectangle but maybe not necessarily as boring , as plain as a rectangle . project manager : um shall we maybe shoot for a a specific uh target group ? that way we could l i mean if it were , if we were shooting for young guys then it 's um a certain look to the remote . or girls or older people ? um would that you think that would help us find um a specific form ? that we would would wan na pick out ? user interface : d i do n't know if that might cope with like the trend-watching . i find anything more on that . marketing : mm . yeah not yet but maybe by the next meeting we 'll have some info on that . project manager : 'kay . so um we know that the remote 's gon na have to be we 'll just say we 've got a colour scheme for it . um yellow and user interface : yeah . project manager : you know yellow it 's nice and bright , with the buttons being grey or black . and our slogan pasted somewhere on it , on the the bottom marketing : project manager : or the user interface : bottom perhaps project manager : you know . um user interface : yeah . project manager : maybe we could sketch a so basically all of our remotes all of our typical remotes now are just kind of a rectangular sort . you know . um maybe we could flare it or something . you know . so it 's more of course this will look like a bone then . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : go ahead and erase this . um hope everyone memorised that uh user interface : you i mean it might be to look at sort of the the shape and trend of like things like mobile phones , and the shapes that the they 've been going . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : they 've gone from big brick block things , which is a remote control is , to sort of slinky small things . project manager : yeah everybody 's got a mobile phone right ? except for me now . uh user interface : marketing : project manager : but they are all , industrial designer : project manager : you know , mobile phones um they 've kind of taken a turn to where they 're really small . um which may defeat our purpose for being able to locate our remote all the time . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : right . project manager : but then again you do n't want you know like the first mobile phone that was this big marketing : project manager : and you had a handbag to carry it around in . um user interface : project manager : so we 've got basically what remotes look like now is kind of what we 're what we 're stuck with . um maybe we could go with a square or something . um um you know with minimal number of buttons . i guess you 've got you know one through nine . for typing in your channels . uh you 've got volume , up and down . channel up and down . marketing : power . project manager : power . usually at the top . um a mute . industrial designer : that 's the classical design . project manager : that 's that 's pretty much all you need i think . um a menu button , maybe . industrial designer : right . project manager : so you know . if you , if we want the remote to do other things like um or i guess the tv to be able to change the tint and the colour and you know all those kind of things that are built into tvs , we just have that under one standard menu button where you go in , press the menu button , scroll up and down to select it . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um industrial designer : talking of which maybe a scrolling function is not not too bad . project manager : 'kay so industrial designer : it 's project manager : um industrial designer : talk about maybe f look at that from the side , there maybe . marketing : industrial designer : which is technically the easiest option . would probably be like a scrolling , little scrolling wheel like this . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . yeah . so . project manager : like a wheel on your mouse . industrial designer : yeah , sort of like that . project manager : sort of . industrial designer : you can even if we 're coming from mice , we can even add a click function , where you , in order to verify the information you just press it down . right . project manager : 's a good idea . industrial designer : also when it comes to the ergonomics of the whole thing , if you wan na make it square for the looks of it , then maybe to make it more comfortable to hold the whole thing , you add a little bulge down here . just which maybe from an engineering point this could be holding the the batteries and so on . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i know . you know what i 'm getting at here , project manager : look g yeah . looks good . industrial designer : fel look at it from the side . it 's like that . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right . uh then you hold it in your hand like this . and maybe you bring the buttons nearer to the or the imp more important buttons nearer to the to the side . user interface : yes project manager : to the thumb . yeah . industrial designer : right . mm . user interface : to the thumb yeah . maybe the buttons could like uh decrease in s the bigger ones you know they could actually be bigger in size than the ones that are less important , the smaller here . industrial designer : right . you can also have it , maybe , talking about mobile phones again , sliding open . with the lesser used functions on this part , user interface : yeah . behind . industrial designer : and then it slides into that part . and out . user interface : definitely . just like o on a sort of side view . something that you know it would sort of fit in the hand better . so you know you just sort of have your hand industrial designer : mm well i was just thinking , this this of course causes user interface : yeah . right on the and your thumb would be up here type thing . industrial designer : causes a problem um for left or right-handed people actually . so . user interface : yeah that 's also true . instantly sort of always going for the right-handed person . industrial designer : right . user interface : but i mean the older so project manager : yeah is everyone who in here 's right-handed , left-handed ? you guys all right-handed ? marketing : right . industrial designer : right . user interface : right-handed , project manager : yeah . so user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'm left-handed but i , so i can say that most things are designed for right-handed people . industrial designer : that 's right . marketing : uh-huh . project manager : like the written language . or english . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : maybe you could buy like a special left-handed version of the remote . special order . project manager : maybe . ow . i would say i mean it should be probably designed for a right-handed p person . marketing : yeah . project manager : um but that 's that 's good . that 's w i think we 've got a kind of a good plan there . um at least for what buttons we 're gon na use . um so we 've got uh i like the scroll , the scroll action and the . user interface : i mean i 'm just just thinking maybe if it was um circular um with the sort of that sort of the sort of early idea we had , with the way that was more like that , whereas this is just a one-handed thing that you sort of almost wrap round the thumb . so you 'd have your , you 'd put your hand into there with the thumb there . and then your thumb would do you 'd have all the buttons sort of round here . and that i think could work . on any hand . if you just had it like wrapped round there . left or right . project manager : yeah . kinda like holding a industrial designer : right . that minimises it size-wise as well . user interface : minimise its size . it could be you know really quite small . industrial designer : mm . then there 's maybe another point of making it a two-in-one kind of thing . if we have a smaller a smaller device that actually fits into the big one . you give it the full functions in here , and just a couple of functions in there . like your zap zapping device is just u channels up-down , uh volume , and on-off . user interface : yeah . zapping functions . industrial designer : that 's it . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : maybe . marketing : could be good . project manager : so two remotes in one . but then would be easier to lose one or the other . industrial designer : that 's right . means the big one has to be sufficiently big . and perhaps heavy , so you ca n't move it around . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : it actually is your coffee table . industrial designer : make it a piece of furniture . user interface : industrial designer : yes . yes , there you go . user interface : industrial designer : or a statue or something . project manager : okay . well we need to finish up here . um so for the next so for the next um before the next meeting w uh sh shall we work on you 're watching trends to see what what kind of new information we 've got going on . um marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : manuel you 're going to work on the components for for what we 're gon na use . industrial designer : right . project manager : let 's go with our our uh rounded kind of fit in your hand let 's explore uh the the uh possibility of having the two-piece . so one for the the quick zapping um and possibly one you know with just that rounded part that fits into your hand . um industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah . project manager : and ryan you work on um how how well they 'll work with the us with the user . so both of those concepts . user interface : how well it 'll work yeah . project manager : and uh okay i think we made some good progress here . industrial designer : alright . user interface : project manager : see you in i dunno . i gu i guess we 'll take lunch in about uh half an hour . or i guess we 'll be taking lunch shortly and then then in about half an hour after that we 'll probably have another meeting . marketing : industrial designer : alright . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the presentation on market research and adjustments due to new project demands . </s> marketing : yeah . it 's okay . okay . um so first of all , the method that i used was by doing some marketing research , industrial designer : marketing : by um doing research on some interviews that were conducted . and then some internet research . and i was sent a report that was i think there were a hundred remote users that they interviewed . and so i will show you some of the results from that , which i think will be helpful . um okay here are some of the findings . they said that the users dislike the look and feel of their current remote controls . and seventy five percent of the users find their remote controls to be ugly . which is a fairly significant number i would say . and eighty percent of the users would be willing to spend more money if they could get a remote that would look fancy . so i think that earlier we were onto something when we were talking about having it be a modern cool look , i think that 's definitely important . um they say that current remote controls do not match well the operating behaviour of the user . seventy five percent of users said they zap a lot . and if anyone could clarify what that means ? industrial designer : just jus user interface : is is it j just just marketing : zap , does that just mean like changing the channel ? user interface : just using it industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . um and fifty percent of the users say that they 're only using ten percent of the buttons on their remote control . and there was something else , they kept track of the frequency per hour in using certain buttons . and some of them it looks like barely need to be included at all . of course channel selection is used the most frequently . and then teletext was the next . volume and then power . and then audio settings and screen settings and channel settings were practically never used . so i think we could definitely eliminate or somehow combine a lot of the functions into one button . um the biggest user frustrations , as we said fifty percent of people find that their remotes are lost somewhere , and so i think a tracking device of some sort would be a good idea . they said it take thirty four percent said it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote . and twenty six percent said that the controls are bad for r_s_i_ . user interface : a repetitive strain injury . marketing : what is it ? user interface : just repetitive strain injury . i think . that 's what i guess . </s>
<s> what ideas did user interface suggest when discussing market research and related adjustments ? </s> user interface : having just listened to what corinne just said , i 'll draw on some of the things as well . some things that sort of relevant to what i wan na say . 'kay so i 'm just gon na yeah approach the technical functions design . um the method i used was to explore the uh technical functions of a remote control . marketing : user interface : and t s simplest approach that i came to is is to change , programme and operate an electronic device remotely . i mean that 's an obvious thing to say , but it 's not attached to the device that you want to control . um i had some things sent to me . not very much . to look at similar devices . um defined in some them . and then the personal preferences that i will suggest . um we discussed a universal one . um like it 's just been brought up again then . but i think a universal remote control is actually quite a difficult object to design , and po possibly within maybe the budget that we do it , um because you 'd need to know all the spef specifications of a all the like electronic companies . i 'm not sure have you ever come across a universal remote control yourself , but you have to i they 're a nightmare to use . you have to set them , reset them to everything . um and that would only add buttons . whereas i think the aim is to take away buttons . so i think it 'd be better maybe to concentrate on maybe just a universal one for tvs . um or maybe just one that you could we could design and then different people , manufacturers could use it to set to their specifications , if if the aim is to get something that 's unique in design . um okay here here 's just two pictures of remote controls . they 're just simple tv remote controls . but one is uh user-centred . that is the one on the left . and you can straight away see there 's less buttons . and the other one is engineer-centred where that 's more uh specified for the sort of the elaborate piece of equipment it 's trying to control um which appeals more to the product that we want , and on what the have said and the market research and stuff probably looking at something that should be user-centred . fewer buttons , simpler to use , and if ten percent um is hidden away if ten percent is what 's used , maybe the other fifty percent , the buttons that are used very rarely like programming , they could be hidden maybe under some remote controls you might have come across have maybe a little flip thi thing where they 're hidden away . and the main buttons are the ones you or the ones you come across . um and finally , um uh sort i 've sort of covered that , our product i think should be user interface orientated . um like i said to concentrate on tv remote control , a universal remote might be too complex . um and as what it , the major findings market researchers have said , it 's the image and the appearance that people di dislike . so that we should concentrate on something that would set a trend . and that 's it . industrial designer : cable there . thank you . project manager : what was your last conclusion on that one ? focus on uh the i user interface : on something on the image of it . project manager : the image of it . </s>
<s> what ideas did industrial designer suggest when discussing market research and related adjustments ? </s> industrial designer : okay . gon na talk to you about the working design of the interiors basically which is what dictates the design the both the interface basically and the outer appearance because this is all the stuff that needs to go in there . right . so unfortunately the people who were supposed to do this little presentation for me obviously were too drunk to actually accomplish it , marketing : project manager : industrial designer : so um i 'm going to do a lot of the stuff on the board . um just this is the basic basic premise of a remote control . um the basic function is to send messages to another system . okay so much is clear . an energy source feeds an integrated circuit , like a chip , that can compose messages . often in the form of infrared bits . this is the most mostly used . um there 's uh also some sound systems but infrared is the better or the more more used system . um parts are cheaper as well . a user interface controls the chip and accordingly the messages . this is where my people screwed up basically . marketing : industrial designer : so i 'm going to explain that on the board rather . um what we have is different components that obviously need to go in there . we 'll start with an energy source . right . um which is usually a battery right ? since it 's not feasible to add a cable to that . this energy source of course is connected to the the user interface itself . uh which can be buttons , whatever , which in fact controls a chip . right ? this is the user interface and there we have the chip . um the way this goes normally is that this chip then controls an infrared lamp . that sends out the signal . of course the signal differs accordingly . um depending on what the chip tells the infrared lan lamp . and of course that 's controlled , the chip itself is controlled by the user interface . the way you normally normally do it is that you add a little device such as a lamp to the whole thing as well , so that you know that it 's working basically . you press something , you get a response . which is also comparatively um important on one of those devices . now this , what we 're talking about here , or what i think should be discussed are these two components mostly . the the uh energy source for one thing can be altered . what we probably can not alter is of course the infrared , the sending device basically , the infrared lamp . we can not change the chip which controls the infrared lamp . right ? these two are components that we have to use , and these are dictated by the whole function of the whole thing . um the lamp can be put onto the desi the device . it c it does n't have to be there . this can be discussed as well . the user interface . that 's something we can also discuss . um as we 've heard uh speech recognition is the hype obviously in the moment . speech recognition um interface , we do n't know that . or if we just do the usual button thing . or we have a touch pad or something like that that 's something we can discuss . and of course the energy source . batteries . solar cells . who knows ? of course it 's always a question whether these these components are in fact available cheap enough , developed enough . but that 's like i s i suppose rather up to marketing , and not to project manager : so we could the the industrial designer : to the industrial design department . project manager : the more complex we make it of course , the more expensive industrial designer : expensive it 's gon na be get uh . yeah . project manager : but people have said that they would well younger generations of people have said that they would pay more for a speech recognition remote . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so possibly it might be worth the investment . </s>
<s> what views did project manager get from the last meeting review and market research ? </s> project manager : alright let 's just go over the agenda real quick for this meeting . see if i ca n't get things uh moving along here a little bit better . um i 'll go over what we went over last time , which should n't take long . then i believe each of you have a presentation . um i 've was sent a a couple more requirements for our remote , what they want . um then we can come to a conclusion on uh what we want the remote to do , um and how it 's going to do it hopefully . and uh then we 'll have the closing . um which we 'll have forty minutes for . uh let 's see , the last meeting we went over um who was responsible for what . i 'm responsible for leading the meetings , keeping the notes , uh and coming up with the final presentation . um corinne is our marketing expert . she 's gon na figure out what what um the consumer wants . um ryan is our user interface designer . and manuel is the industrial designer . so you 're gon na come up with the ideas ryan , and you 're gon na pick 'em apart . user interface : project manager : um we decided our remote , uh we want it to be a universal remote uh that everyone would want . um we want to be modern , um fun , different . uh it needs to be sturdy , um easy to find , so we gon na have that locator function . um and we want to be different . um and then we went over a couple of different ideas . ball-shaped phone . the keyboard shape . um we decided that it should probably be one-handed . something we could use with one hand . um and that was our last meeting . so um why do n't um do each of you have a presentation ? marketing : another thing about these figures is ninety one percent of the youngest age groups said they 'd do it , but probably a lot of them that 's actually their parents money . like i do n't know if they would actually go out and purchase this themselves , a fifteen year old you know . user interface : i think as well it 'd be j the gimmick factor for the younger people . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : but practically i do n't think it 's project manager : it 's a , it 's a gimmick factor that they like at first , and user interface : yeah . it 'll wear off . project manager : now i was sent a couple of things to modify our uh new requirements . um the remote 's only gon na be for the television , which is good because we already decided y your your research showed that uh not only is a universal remote more complicated , it 's more cost , more costly . and your re uh research showed that you know most of the people do n't even use it . i think uh you said fifty percent of the people only use half the or ten percent of the buttons . so if we remove the universal remote then that solves that problem . um no teletext . um so we do n't have to worry about that . um but we do have to use the the company wants us to incorporate the corporate colour and our slogan , which is we put the fashion in electronics . and our corporate colours are grey and yellow . and we could probably get away with black too but so those are the three um the three new requirements that that i was told we need to use . um from all all three of your uh presentations , i think that we were on the right track a lot in our last meeting . we want something that looks good . um we want something that 's simple . we want something that you can find easily . um and the speech recognition i i guess is kind of uh give or take . it 's gon na cost more . s the young the younger people say that they like it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : i did have have a thought about the sort of the tracking thing . is that if it came with maybe a holder or holster , whatever you wan na call it . um that you you should put it back in . your remote . but if you do n't put it back in , you press something like a little button on that , and that just sort of sends out a beep to find where it is or something . just by infrared . that should n't be too complex i would 've thought . project manager : that 'd be , that 'd be good if we were going with our our ball . user interface : yeah it would be quite good . project manager : or or with you know i guess with any form that that would be good . user interface : the ball could sit on a project manager : you know that could be the charger . for you know user interface : yeah . project manager : we could use rechargeable batteries in the remote . and that would be or solar . or you know however , however you wanted to go about it , the holder could also be the charging unit . um user interface : yeah . project manager : with the locator button . um and if it were the ball you 'd no longer have to have a flat space on it . user interface : yeah . project manager : um like industrial designer : you still do . project manager : we still have the how to hold on to it industrial designer : you s you still w yeah . you put it on t on the couch table . project manager : it 's gon na roll away . industrial designer : while you 're watching , marketing : rolls away industrial designer : it 's gon na roll off . so marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that 's not an issue really . project manager : um so i guess after the meeting we 'll have some questionnaires . and uh and some summaries for for what 's going on . um then we 'll take lunch . then we can come back and uh work on our individual work . um i 'll do the minutes . uh let 's see . it looks like you 're already on your way for uh working with the components . um chips , the what chips we need industrial designer : . project manager : and what uh you know how to power it and whatnot . user interface concept , we want it to be something simple . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the team 's discussion on the specific shape design of the remote control . </s> project manager : so if we remove the universal remote then that solves that problem . um no teletext . um so we do n't have to worry about that . um but we do have to use the the company wants us to incorporate the corporate colour and our slogan , which is we put the fashion in electronics . and our corporate colours are grey and yellow . and we could probably get away with black too but so those are the three um the three new requirements that that i was told we need to use . um from all all three of your uh presentations , i think that we were on the right track a lot in our last meeting . we want something that looks good . um we want something that 's simple . we want something that you can find easily . um and the speech recognition i i guess is kind of uh give or take . it 's gon na cost more . s the young the younger people say that they like it . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : but um it 's probably , i would say , probably not worth the investment at this point in time . so maybe we should just do away with speech recognition . um and that way we can focus on our form . user interface : i did have have a thought about the sort of the tracking thing . is that if it came with maybe a holder or holster , whatever you wan na call it . um that you you should put it back in . your remote . but if you do n't put it back in , you press something like a little button on that , and that just sort of sends out a beep to find where it is or something . just by infrared . that should n't be too complex i would 've thought . project manager : that 'd be , that 'd be good if we were going with our our ball . user interface : yeah it would be quite good . project manager : or or with you know i guess with any form that that would be good . user interface : the ball could sit on a project manager : you know that could be the charger . for you know user interface : yeah . project manager : we could use rechargeable batteries in the remote . and that would be or solar . or you know however , however you wanted to go about it , the holder could also be the charging unit . um user interface : yeah . project manager : with the locator button . um and if it were the ball you 'd no longer have to have a flat space on it . user interface : yeah . project manager : um like industrial designer : you still do . project manager : we still have the how to hold on to it industrial designer : you s you still w yeah . you put it on t on the couch table . project manager : it 's gon na roll away . industrial designer : while you 're watching , marketing : rolls away industrial designer : it 's gon na roll off . so marketing : yeah . industrial designer : that 's not an issue really . project manager : um so i guess after the meeting we 'll have some questionnaires . and uh and some summaries for for what 's going on . um then we 'll take lunch . then we can come back and uh work on our individual work . um i 'll do the minutes . uh let 's see . it looks like you 're already on your way for uh working with the components . um chips , the what chips we need industrial designer : . project manager : and what uh you know how to power it and whatnot . user interface concept , we want it to be something simple . user interface : yeah . project manager : um minimal number of buttons . i guess our , i guess our main um main thing that we should focus on until then is probably deciding on a certain look , you know . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : right . that 's project manager : did you have time earlier to to work on that . did you guys feel you have enough time in between our meetings to get everything done that you need to get done ? marketing : not really . user interface : i 'll yeah i 'll have a look , try look at the actual appearance in the next break . project manager : 'kay . user interface : i th i i do still think it needs to be something that is ultimately one-handed . the ball is probably not a good idea . and even something that 's held like that might be difficult . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so that i think it still has to be a variation . on maybe a a rect on a rectangle but maybe not necessarily as boring , as plain as a rectangle . project manager : um shall we maybe shoot for a a specific uh target group ? that way we could l i mean if it were , if we were shooting for young guys then it 's um a certain look to the remote . or girls or older people ? um would that you think that would help us find um a specific form ? that we would would wan na pick out ? user interface : d i do n't know if that might cope with like the trend-watching . i find anything more on that . marketing : mm . yeah not yet but maybe by the next meeting we 'll have some info on that . project manager : 'kay . so um we know that the remote 's gon na have to be we 'll just say we 've got a colour scheme for it . um yellow and user interface : yeah . project manager : you know yellow it 's nice and bright , with the buttons being grey or black . and our slogan pasted somewhere on it , on the the bottom marketing : project manager : or the user interface : bottom perhaps project manager : you know . um user interface : yeah . project manager : maybe we could sketch a so basically all of our remotes all of our typical remotes now are just kind of a rectangular sort . you know . um maybe we could flare it or something . you know . so it 's more of course this will look like a bone then . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : go ahead and erase this . um hope everyone memorised that uh user interface : you i mean it might be to look at sort of the the shape and trend of like things like mobile phones , and the shapes that the they 've been going . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : they 've gone from big brick block things , which is a remote control is , to sort of slinky small things . project manager : yeah everybody 's got a mobile phone right ? except for me now . uh user interface : marketing : project manager : but they are all , industrial designer : project manager : you know , mobile phones um they 've kind of taken a turn to where they 're really small . um which may defeat our purpose for being able to locate our remote all the time . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : right . project manager : but then again you do n't want you know like the first mobile phone that was this big marketing : project manager : and you had a handbag to carry it around in . um user interface : project manager : so we 've got basically what remotes look like now is kind of what we 're what we 're stuck with . um maybe we could go with a square or something . um user interface : to the thumb yeah . maybe the buttons could like uh decrease in s the bigger ones you know they could actually be bigger in size than the ones that are less important , the smaller here . industrial designer : right . you can also have it , maybe , talking about mobile phones again , sliding open . with the lesser used functions on this part , user interface : yeah . behind . industrial designer : and then it slides into that part . and out . user interface : definitely . just like o on a sort of side view . something that you know it would sort of fit in the hand better . so you know you just sort of have your hand industrial designer : mm well i was just thinking , this this of course causes user interface : yeah . right on the and your thumb would be up here type thing . industrial designer : causes a problem um for left or right-handed people actually . so . user interface : yeah that 's also true . instantly sort of always going for the right-handed person . industrial designer : right . user interface : but i mean the older so project manager : yeah is everyone who in here 's right-handed , left-handed ? you guys all right-handed ? marketing : right . industrial designer : right . user interface : right-handed , project manager : yeah . so user interface : yeah . project manager : i 'm left-handed but i , so i can say that most things are designed for right-handed people . industrial designer : that 's right . marketing : uh-huh . project manager : like the written language . or english . industrial designer : user interface : </s>
<s> what detailed suggestions did industrial designer put forward when discussing the specific shape design of remote control ? </s> industrial designer : talking of which maybe a scrolling function is not not too bad . project manager : 'kay so industrial designer : it 's project manager : um industrial designer : talk about maybe f look at that from the side , there maybe . marketing : industrial designer : which is technically the easiest option . would probably be like a scrolling , little scrolling wheel like this . right . that minimises it size-wise as well . user interface : minimise its size . it could be you know really quite small . industrial designer : mm . then there 's maybe another point of making it a two-in-one kind of thing . if we have a smaller a smaller device that actually fits into the big one . you give it the full functions in here , and just a couple of functions in there . like your zap zapping device is just u channels up-down , uh volume , and on-off . user interface : yeah . zapping functions . industrial designer : that 's it . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : maybe . marketing : could be good . project manager : so two remotes in one . but then would be easier to lose one or the other . industrial designer : that 's right . means the big one has to be sufficiently big . and perhaps heavy , so you ca n't move it around . marketing : yeah , yeah . project manager : it actually is your coffee table . industrial designer : make it a piece of furniture . user interface : industrial designer : yes . yes , there you go . user interface : </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> sian thomas : bore da . unfortunately , the chair , lynne neagle , is unable to attend today 's meeting . therefore , in accordance with standing order 17.22 , i call for nominations for a temporary chair , for the duration of the meeting . julie morgan am : i nominate john griffiths . sian thomas : any further nominations ? i therefore declare that john griffiths has been appointed temporary chair , and i invite him to chair for the duration of today 's meeting . john griffiths am : thank you very much . i thank the members for that . welcome , everyone , to this meeting of the children , young people and education committee . the first item on our agenda today is apologies , substitutions , declarations of interest . obviously , lynne neagle is n't able to be with us today . we have n't received any other apologies . are there any declarations of interest ? no . we will move on then to item 2 on our agenda , the continuation of our inquiry into targeted funding to improve educational outcomes , and evidence session 8 . and i 'm very pleased to welcome estyn here this morning to give evidence to the committee . would you like to introduce yourselves for the record , please ? meilyr rowlands : meilyr rowlands , chief inspector . claire morgan : claire morgan , strategic director . simon brown : simon brown , strategic director . john griffiths am : okay . thank you . and welcome again . if it 's okay , we 'll move straight into questions—we have quite a number of questions to get through this morning . firstly , llyr . llyr gruffydd am : thank you , chair , and good morning . i just want to start by asking about your perception of how schools are using the pupil development grant funding , and to what extent they are genuinely targeting that funding exclusively towards children eligible for free school meals . meilyr rowlands : thank you for the question . this grant has been targeted far better by now than it was originally . estyn has made several reports regarding the effectiveness of the grant , and , really , going back to before this specific grant , to a similar grant , called raise . at the start of this grant , the funding was often spent on tackling underachievement , rather than dealing with the underachievement of children who are eligible for free school meals specifically . but , over a period of time , we have seen that it is targeted much better by now . that 's not to say that the targeting is working perfectly still , and i think that we are seeing examples where the targeting is n't going just to children who receive free school meals . schools sometimes interpret poverty in a slightly wider way than that . in terms of what schools are doing with the grant , we have given evidence to you of the kinds of things that they are doing . they are tracking progress of pupils , they are trying to improve attendance , they are trying to work with families and the community in general , they 're doing work specifically to improve how children are doing in exams , in key stage 4 , specifically—a lot of funding is being spent on that—improving the confidence of students , taking students on extra-curricular activities , improving literacy and numeracy . those are the kinds of activities they 're being used for . llyr gruffydd am : because the research by ipsos mori and the wales institute of social and economic research , data and methods has shown that there is some kind of blurring—i think that 's the term that they use—in terms of who is eligible . but you are relatively comfortable with the fact that there is sufficient targeting happening . you referred to the fact that it is used , perhaps , to reach a slightly wider cohort than just those who are eligible for free school meals , but you do feel that that balance , from your experience , is acceptable . meilyr rowlands : yes , certainly , it has improved a great deal . when i was looking at this initially , the targeting wasn ’ t happening at all . it was being spent on children who were underachieving , and one of the things that we did notice in the first report was that much more funding was being spent on boys than girls . and , of course , that raised the question immediately that it was n't being spent then on children who are eligible for free school meals , because those numbers are equal . so , it wasn ’ t , but it has improved . there is a discussion about who exactly should have it and whether free school meals is the best definition . so , i think that schools are perhaps not following that exactly , but within the spirit of the grant , i think i ’ m fairly comfortable . there is a specific question—i don ’ t know if you are going to ask this—regarding more able and talented pupils . llyr gruffydd am : that 's where i was going next . meilyr rowlands : so , if there is a cohort of pupils who are missing out on this , they are the more able and talented pupils who receive free school meals . there are a number of reasons for this , i think . one of them is that there ’ s still some feeling that less able children should be receiving this grant , children who are underachieving . schools don ’ t always identify underachievement of those more able children . it seems that they are doing okay , but if they were given more support , they would do even better . llyr gruffydd am : so , is it a lack of awareness of the nature of the grant , and that the individual has to be targeted rather than just those who are underachieving ? is that the problem ? or is it the regime that focuses on exam results and the need to draw those pupils who are underachieving up , rather than incentivising those who are achieving to achieve better ? meilyr rowlands : a bit of both , i 'd say . and the third factor is identifying children who are more able . i think that we have a bit of work to do in that regard . i was in a conference for headteachers last week , where there was new data being discussed , and that data showed the progress of children from a certain point , year 6 tests . i think that kind of data will be very useful , because what that data can do is help secondary schools to identify more able children and that they are underachieving . even though they 're doing quite well , that kind of value-added data is very useful . so , i think that that will help as well . llyr gruffydd am : thank you . john griffiths am : mark , did you want to pursue these matters further ? mark reckless am : yes . i just wanted to ask about the more able and talented stream . it was good to read in your report an increased emphasis on this and to see your awareness of its importance in the pdg as well . can i just ask— ? would you look at one area regarding schools ' engagement with the seren network , particularly for the more able and talented , and what more estyn can do through its inspection criteria and otherwise to encourage this from schools ? meilyr rowlands : well , i think estyn has always been very strongly focused on improving the performance of more able pupils . for example , in last year 's annual report i raised it , and a lot of the debate around this now , i think , was generated by some of the things i 've said in previous annual reports . we gave a lot of evidence to the— . paul flynn , i think , did the—no , who did the report ? paul murphy did the report . so , we gave evidence to that . and on seren , i 'm particularly proud that my alma mater , jesus college , is a very strong supporter of the seren work . so , i 'm personally quite interested in the work of seren . and we look at the performance of more able pupils in all our inspections . it 's a particular part of our inspection framework—looking at the relative performance of different groups . so , we look at the different performance of boys and girls , free school meals and non-free school meals , ethnic minorities , but we also look at the performance of more able pupils in particular , and we question schools about how they provide for the more able pupils , and we 've referred to seren in several of our inspection reports . mark reckless am : and where schools work particularly hard to engage with seren and take up opportunities from that and push as many pupils as appropriate to work with that , is that something that you would recognise within your inspection reports ? and , on the other side , where schools do n't do that , is that something you would pull them up on ? meilyr rowlands : yes , we 've done that . we 've done it in several reports . claire morgan : throughout our inspections , we are looking for best practice , because part of our strategy is always to identify where there are weaknesses , but actually to point schools in the direction of where they can find a solution . so , capturing different approaches to more able and talented is part of the role of inspection . mark reckless am : thank you . llyr gruffydd am : just briefly , you touched earlier on using the measure of those who are eligible for free school meals as a way to identify children from disadvantaged backgrounds so that you can target this funding . varied evidence has been given to us on this . do you have an opinion on whether that 's the best way ? meilyr rowlands : it certainly is a good way of doing it . there is a strong correlation between children who underachieve and that measure , so it is a strong measure . but , there is scope to discuss how exactly it does work . for example , some people say that if you have received free school meals for a period of time and now you 're not receiving them , then perhaps you should still be receiving the funding for a period of time , for example . so , there are ways of fine-tuning that measure , i think . it 's worth considering those approaches . john griffiths am : thanks for that . we move on now to michelle . michelle brown am : thank you . good morning , everyone . you 've reported that the proportion of schools making effective use of the pdg remains around two thirds of secondary and primary schools , meaning that a third are still not using that pdg effectively . why do you think this is ? meilyr rowlands : i think that sort of proportion broadly corresponds to the schools that do n't have particularly good leadership . i think , ultimately , all of these sorts of initiatives come down to strong leadership and effective leadership—that they know how to organise and use those grants effectively . one of the shortcomings that we often identify is evaluation—that money has been spent on a particular way of using the grant , but it has not been evaluated well . so , i think quite a lot of it is to do with generic leadership skills . but those are some of the specific shortcomings to do with evaluation . michelle brown am : are there any patterns by region or type of school in that ? meilyr rowlands : i do n't think there 's any patterns that we 've identified in terms of region . claire morgan : as meilyr said , it 's very strongly linked to leadership capacity . michelle brown am : okay . thank you . what are the most effective uses of pdg , from your point of view ? is there something in particular that you think that schools should be focusing on ? meilyr rowlands : i think there 's a lot of evidence on what constitutes good practice in this area . there 's the welsh government guidance , there 's our guidance , there 's a lot of research—the sutton trust toolkit—and they 're the sorts of things i mentioned earlier . i think that more attention does need to be given to the community-focused element of this work . so , schools do a lot of things that they are in control of—the things i mentioned earlier : things like improving attendance , offering extra-curricular activities , literacy and numeracy support , tracking pupils—all those sorts of things . but an important element of this , i think , is engaging with the learners , but also with parents and the community . i think what we 've found is that the most effective schools—the ones that really do make a big difference to this cohort of students—are the ones that do that most effectively . claire morgan : i think that there are different situations in different schools , but in the best schools , they evaluate the barriers to learning for their particular children . often we see that engagement with communities is part of that engagement with families . in brackla primary school , in bridgend , they 've got families at brackla , and it 's a range of activities to engage with families . families often have had a negative experience of education themselves , and the schools are trying to address some of those concerns . cefn hengoed in swansea , which i 'm sure many of you know about , have had an extensive strategy for engaging with the community , with the families , and equipping their children to participate in decisions around the curriculum , making them more confident learners . so , it is about removing the barriers for disadvantaged learners . michelle brown am : thank you . you 've made the comment that secondary schools are focusing too much on key stage 4 and not enough on developing pupils ' skills in a sustainable way . can you expand on that and give us a bit more detail on that , please ? meilyr rowlands : yes . i think this is sort of generally accepted now . the latest guidance on the grant now says that 60 per cent of it should be spent on key stage 3 . i think that acknowledges this general point . but what a lot of schools did with this money was precisely that , to target key stage 4—to have catch-up homework clubs , revision clubs , specifically to get children better gcse results , and getting c grades , in particular . of course , that is an important part of your armoury of tools to use , but i think there was too much use of that . part of the problem with that is that it does n't either develop the long-term transferable skills that those pupils have , or should have , nor does it produce the kinds of skills that the teachers need as well . so , it 's kind of a quick win , a quick-fix solution , while what we feel would be more effective in the long term , and more sustainable in the long term—because if this money goes , then those quick fixes wo n't be possible—what would be more effective in the long term is to improve the curriculum and the pedagogy , the quality of the teaching , the quality of the curriculum , so that children are naturally enthused by what is on offer , that they attend better because they want to be in school , that they want to learn . so , we feel that getting the curriculum right , tailoring the curriculum to the needs of the pupils in that area , and improving teaching , is a more sustainable long-term solution . michelle brown am : do you think there 's anything in particular driving the focus on the key stage 4 ? meilyr rowlands : well , again , i think most people would say it is the performance indicators . i think there 's a general acknowledgement of that . again , i said last week— . there was a conference of all the secondary heads in wales , and that was one of the major discussion points in the conference : how do we get the performance indicators right so that there are no perverse incentives in it ? michelle brown am : to what extent are decisions being made in schools concerning the application of the pdg actually evidence-based ? to what extent are they using research to back up how they 're using the pdg or is it effectively just guesswork ? meilyr rowlands : i think that , of all the areas of school policy , this is the one that 's most evidence-based . i think that , generally , schools can do much more about using evidence and research findings , but this particular area is probably the one that schools are strongest at using research in . that 's partly because the guidance strongly suggests that you should do that , but also because there is a lot of easily accessible research evidence available . so , there 's a lot of research on this . as i mentioned earlier , the sutton trust toolkit is a good example where researchers have really tried very hard to simplify all the evidence that exists in a way that schools can use . so , there are little pound signs to show how costly an intervention is and little stars or something to show how many months of gain pupils get out of this particular intervention . so , it makes it much easier for schools to make a decision . but i think what 's missing is that you ca n't just take that evidence as it is , because you have to implement it in your own school , and that then will affect how effective that particular intervention is . just because it is evaluated by researchers as being generally very effective does n't mean that you will necessarily implement it effectively . so , it is therefore important that each school does evaluate . so , there are kind of two sides to using research . there 's looking at research , but there 's also doing your own research and evaluating how effectively you have implemented something . i think that 's been a weakness . michelle brown am : thank you . john griffiths am : okay . hefin david . hefin david am : do you think there 's an attendance crisis at key stage 4 for those students eligible for free school meals ? meilyr rowlands : 'crisis ' is maybe too strong a word , but i think there 's been a lot of attention given to attendance , quite rightly . over a long period of time , i was a member of the national behaviour and attendance review board under ken reid about 10 years ago . so , there 's been a lot of attention on attendance , and that 's very important because attendance has a very strong correlation with outcomes . hefin david am : of those students at key stage 4 , 35 per cent of those eligible for free school meals are attending for 95 per cent of the time , whereas it 's 60 per cent for their peers . is the pdg making an impact on that ? you 've mentioned engagement with the curriculum . what more can be done ? meilyr rowlands : i think what 's happening now is that people are targeting their attention on attendance . attendance has improved in primary and in secondary generally . it has also improved for these cohorts as well , and at a faster rate than the rest of the cohort . so , there have been improvements . nevertheless , i agree with you totally that it is a major , major problem , and that is why schools do use the pdg specifically to improve attendance . hefin david am : but you said they 've not used it well enough . meilyr rowlands : did i say that ? they are using it , and attendance has improved , and the attendance of this cohort has improved more , but there 's still a major , major problem . so , i think there needs to be even more attention— hefin david am : so , what— ? i 'm looking for specifics . what can be done with the pdg ? meilyr rowlands : i think , as i said earlier , that these are major social issues . so , i think what can be done that has n't been done currently is to give more attention to the community-focused side of schooling . i think the schools that have done well , that have really improved attendance of this particular group of pupils , are the ones that have taken community relationships very , very seriously and worked with parents . hefin david am : yes , you mentioned working with families when you were answering llyr . how does that happen , though ? what does it look like ? if i 'm a parent , what does it look like ? meilyr rowlands : okay . i 'll ask claire to give you an example . cefn hengoed is a good example of a school that has not cracked it but made a lot of progress . claire morgan : often , in the best schools , the headteachers consider themselves to be community leaders as well as headteachers , and they often set up arrangements where they engage directly with the families of disadvantaged children or children who are underachieving generally . they try to build very strong relationships with the families so that the school is in a position to either liaise with different agencies or to bring agencies into the school to address some of the issues that are outside school control . hefin david am : and where does the pdg come into this , and the use of it ? claire morgan : this sometimes is used for appointing staff whose role it is to facilitate these arrangements to give one-to-one support to children , to monitor attendance , to visit homes where children are not coming into schools , to try and address what the barriers are in getting them into classrooms . hefin david am : and those lessons you 've learned from cefn hengoed : how are you going to spread that ? how does that get spread ? claire morgan : well , we 've done it in a number of ways . obviously , the first thing we do is the inspection report , and we highlight the practice there . we also have things— . this is an example of our best-practice case studies . we also have conferences as well , where we invite the headteachers from those schools to come and present to other headteachers . we also tweet , use social media , to try and get the message out there . but there 's also— hefin david am : this all seems like stuff that 's done to teachers . it does n't seem very engaging . claire morgan : well , it is— . headteachers tell us that learning about best practice from other headteachers is very , very useful . when we had a conference , and when we looked at leadership and improving schools , cefn hengoed , along with a number of other schools , presented , and we had very positive feedback from that . so , it is actually schools learning from other schools , and i think the work that the consortia have been doing on school-to-school support as well can contribute to it . hefin david am : we 're spreading the pdg very thinly now , if we 're talking about attendance , and then we talk about exclusion as well . is it possible that it can have an impact on reducing the higher exclusion rates for efsm students ? claire morgan : i think it has the potential to . i think all these strategies have a potential to remove those barriers . but this is— hefin david am : it does n't sound very convincing . claire morgan : but it is a difficult challenge for schools . these are often complex issues that schools are grappling with , and they are trying a variety of approaches . hefin david am : okay . i 'm not being overly critical , but it does seem very hit and miss , to me . some of the answers that you 're giving—they seem to be giving certain examples , but there does n't seem to be a coherence to it . claire morgan : i think it comes back to leadership . where we have very strong strategic leadership in schools , they are more direct in their approach , and they have a very strong strategy . where there 's weaker leadership , sometimes they are trying different things , perhaps in more of a scattergun approach , rather than trying strategies , evaluating and finding out what works . there is an element of the impact of leadership there . john griffiths am : okay , hefin ? okay . meilyr rowlands : i think it is true to say that it 's difficult to distinguish what some of these better schools do with pdg , as opposed to their general money . if that 's what you 're getting at , i would totally agree . schools like cefn hengoed will be using more than just the pdg to do this work . hefin david am : and it appears to be a lot about the way things are done , as much as how the money is spent . meilyr rowlands : absolutely . claire morgan : it is to do with the ethos and the culture of the school . john griffiths am : okay , thanks for that . we have further questions from michelle . michelle brown am : thank you , chair . you 've observed that the attainment gap between pupils on free school meals and those who are n't on free school meals has n't closed significantly at any stage of learning . is the pdg actually working ? meilyr rowlands : well , i 'm in danger of repeating myself now . it 's quite difficult to identify the cause and the effect in terms of the pdg . so , where there have been improvements , it 's quite difficult to say , 'well , that 's definitely down to the pdg ' , and similarly vice versa : if it 's not working , it 's difficult to say that it 's because of pdg not being used properly . to come back to something else i said previously , there have been small improvements . whether you say that that is due to pdg or not is quite difficult , but there have been some improvements . but there has n't been a major step change in closing that gap , that is true , and i think the conclusion that i draw is that these are major societal challenges and barriers that these young people face . schools can do a certain amount , and of course they must do a certain amount , but to have a step change you do need to engage with the learners , with the parents and with the community and that 's why the more successful schools do actually succeed—it 's because they do that . so , i think more of a push on that area at a national level would be welcome . michelle brown am : in most successful schools , how much is the attainment gap being narrowed , in the schools that make the most effective use of pdg ? meilyr rowlands : well , that would vary from school to school . we can look up specific examples for you of specific schools if you like . john griffiths am : yes , perhaps you could provide a note to the committee on that . meilyr rowlands : yes , i could have a list of schools and how much they 've closed , perhaps . michelle brown am : okay , i 'll move on . john griffiths am : perhaps you could include in that what you would consider to be a significant increase . meilyr rowlands : okay . fine . michelle brown am : thank you . in 2017 , we saw a re-widening of the attainment gap between pupils on free school meals and those not on free school meals . what effect do you think the welsh government 's changes to performance measures have had in terms of impact ? meilyr rowlands : yes , they definitely had a direct impact on it , and probably there might well be an indirect , longer-term impact as well . but , clearly , changing the performance indicators had a direct , immediate effect , because some of those examinations , qualifications , courses that were typically followed by this cohort of students were n't any longer part of the headline performance indicators . so , you 've all heard about btec science and the key skills qualifications . those sorts of things that many of these pupils used to succeed at , and therefore get the performance indicator for the school , no longer count . so , it 's had a direct impact , and it 's one of the reasons why it 's quite difficult to compare the results of one year and another , because of these changes in performance indicators . michelle brown am : yes , that makes sense . do you think there has n't been any— ? can we take it from what you 've said that there 's been a positive improvement , or has it been negative ? meilyr rowlands : i think there 's a growing realisation that secondary schools , key stage 4 , is driven overly by performance indicators , and , whatever performance indicator you come up with , there will be unintended consequences . so , it 's not , i think , useful to keep changing the performance indicators and think that you will get to a point where you solve the problem . that 's not likely to happen . what needs to be done is to have a different approach to accountability that does n't put so much attention on these performance indicators , because what you 're doing is you 're just moving the problem around by changing the performance indicators . some of these vocational courses that i mentioned are a good example of this . so , i think the previous performance indicators encouraged schools to enter , for example , whole cohorts to do btec science , and that 's not a good idea because the gcse sciences are better preparation to go on to a-level science , for example . so , you 're cutting out the possibility of progression for those pupils . on the other hand , by discouraging—the new performance indicators discourage btec and now people are saying , 'we 're not offering btec at all ' , and it is suitable for a certain cohort of pupils . so , it 's very difficult to get the performance indicators absolutely right if you put so much pressure on schools to actually achieve those performance indicators . john griffiths am : michelle , i 'd just like to bring in darren at this point . darren millar am : i share some of your concern around the unavailability now of btec in some schools . it strikes me that the decision to discourage the availability of btec , which is what the performance measures do , really is sending a message about vocational qualifications that is not helpful , actually , to many young people for whom vocational qualifications may be perfectly suitable . is that something with which you concur ? meilyr rowlands : i think it 's one of the unintended consequences , and what i 'm trying to say is that , almost inevitably , there will be unintended consequences . so , you can sympathise with the original decision to change the performance indicators in such a way that it encouraged more pupils to do gcses , for example , but it does have that unintended consequence . in theory , there 's nothing stopping a school entering pupils now for those qualifications . john griffiths am : okay . michelle , we need to move on at this stage , so we 'll move on julie morgan . julie morgan am : yes , thank you very much . i wanted to ask you about looked-after children and adopted children , and how effective the pdg has been for those groups of children . so , to begin with , how well do the schools know that the pdg does exist for looked-after children and adopted children ? meilyr rowlands : i think what we found—we did a review of looked-after children fairly recently , and we found there was some confusion about where the grant was , who had the grant and how it was spent , and what the priorities of regional consortia were , because i think the grant goes to regional consortia now . i think previously it went to local authorities . so , i think schools are n't quite sure about how it 's spent and what the priorities are . claire morgan : i think we 've seen a bit of improvement there . meilyr was right ; there was a lack of clarity . schools were n't always aware of the grant and the possibility of using it to support those learners . but the consortia are now using the grant , and there 's some training being offered to schools around emotional behaviour and attachment training . there 's some school-to-school work that is now being funded by the grant to share best practice , and there are some individual bursaries to support the work . so , from quite a concern , some action now is appearing to be done . simon brown : and on other developments , regional consortia , they 've have appointed regional lac co-ordinators , which has been helpful— julie morgan am : for these particular groups ? simon brown : yes . it has happened since july 2016 and they 're now in post and beginning to work . and , as claire said—she gave some of the spend that the regional consortia are using , targeted spending . it 's an improving area of regional consortia 's work . they are improving their tracking of looked-after children . there 's an issue about adopted children , i think , because , currently , the pupil-level annual school census data does n't differentiate whether children are adopted or not . so , they're more difficult to track . but looked-after children are being tracked by the consortia . so , it 's an improving area , as claire mentioned . julie morgan am : could you give some examples of some work that 's been done with looked-after children that you feel has been effective ? claire morgan : i think we 'd probably need to go away and get that from our evidence base . that would be helpful . julie morgan am : that would be great if you could do that and send something in to us . i 've mentioned before in this context that this previous committee , in the previous assembly , did an inquiry into adopted children , where we met with a lot of adoptive parents . and one of the big issues that did come out was the fact that there was a great deal of concern about some of the insensitivities in the schools in dealing with adopted children , asking for pictures of when the children were born and things like that that did n't show a degree of sensitivity . do you feel that those sorts of issues are being addressed on a wider basis now , and are they being addressed through this grant , through the pdg grant ? meilyr rowlands : we probably do need to come back to you with some more evidence on this . this is certainly on our radar . we 've got two pieces of work currently that we 're doing , which will give a little bit more evidence on this . we 're doing a piece of work on managed moves and i think that will be helpful because a lot of these pupils are subject to managed moves , and that 's the sort of thing we 'll be looking at in that report : what information is transferred from one organisation and from one school to another . i think that generally has n't been very helpful , and there is n't necessarily a good system for exchanging particularly their educational needs—some of the basic things about their date of birth and whatever are transferred , but their educational needs , when children move from one school to another . so , we 've got a report coming out on that . the other piece of work we 've been doing is on children who have had adverse experiences in their childhood and how schools deal with those traumatic backgrounds . julie morgan am : that would , of course , be much wider than looked-after and adopted children . meilyr rowlands : it is wider . it is wider . that is wider . but , if you do n't mind , we 'll try and get you something specifically on— julie morgan am : if you could , because there does generally seem to be a lack of knowledge about how effective this work is with looked-after and adopted children . you do n't have any information about exclusion rates , for example , with looked-after children , and the way this grant has been used to address those sorts of issues ? meilyr rowlands : i think there is some data available . i do n't think exclusions have gone down particularly for that group more than any other group . but there has to be quite a bit of caution used with data on exclusions . the welsh government 's statistics on that come with a big cautionary note , because that data is subject to a lot of variation—exactly what you 're talking about , i think : different counties and different authorities do things differently . and i think the work we 're doing on managed moves is very pertinent to that because managed moves do n't count as part of the exclusion . so , the exclusion rates will differ from area to area , depending on the policy on managed moves . julie morgan am : right . and what about attendance ? anything about attendance with looked-after children ? any evidence of— meilyr rowlands : i 'll have to look that up as well i think . julie morgan am : i think , chair , if we can have some more information on all of this , it would be great . john griffiths am : okay , yes , we 'll look forward to receiving that further information from you . mark . mark reckless am : could i just ask a follow-up to a response that we had last week when we had the eas consortium in , amongst others ? they told us that the specific grant—the pupil deprivation grant—principally for looked-after children , they were responsible for , and that certainly the vast bulk of that was spent on a specific programme , aimed not at lacs specifically , but at all children considered vulnerable at times of transition , particularly into year 7 . does that strike you as an appropriate use of that grant ? meilyr rowlands : i think transition is appropriate—that 's quite sensible , but clearly if the grant is for looked-after children , it should be spent on looked-after children . mark reckless am : are there any other comments on that approach ? i think , to take up what eas has said , there were difficulties about having particular programmes aimed specifically at individual looked-after children , and it was felt that they would benefit vulnerable children , who had more transitions between schools perhaps than others . is that a sufficient link to justify how that grant is spent ? i think this is really in the wider context of how much schools need to make sure this grant goes towards the group it 's specified for , and to what extent it is acceptable to blur the boundaries of that and perhaps this is just an example of a higher degree of blurring than some others . meilyr rowlands : i do n't know enough about this particular initiative to comment , but i would have thought that looked-after children is a very small group and if you were to blur it that much , then it would n't be very targeted . i would have thought that if the grant is specifically for looked-after children , it should be more targeted , but i do n't know the details . mark reckless am : just following up on another point , i think you said that the 'plass ' data— . i apologise that i 'm not familiar with the abbreviation , but could you explain if anything was being done to address previously looked-after children who are now adopted and seeking to ensure that they are measured to that data to allow proper tracking . is that work that 's in hand , do you know ? could you just clarify for me the 'plass ' description and what information system that that refers to ? meilyr rowlands : that 's the information that schools give formally to welsh government and every so often , the data that is collected formally by welsh government is improved and expanded . exclusions is a good example . previously , exclusions were n't collected through plasc—the pupil level annual school census—and so we had no proper data at all on exclusions . now that 's been improved , but i 'm afraid i 'm not sure exactly what you 're referring to here . mark reckless am : well , i think what you were referring to— . i think you were saying that previously looked-after children who are now adopted , unlike looked-after children , that was n't tracked by the plasc data . simon brown : that 's our understanding . looked-after children are differentiated , but whether they 're adopted or not—whether any children are adopted—is n't picked up in the data at the moment . mark reckless am : but i think for the grant , it's previously looked-after children who have since been adopted rather than all adopted children , is n't it ? john griffiths am : again , perhaps you could clarify that for us in the further information that you will provide . meilyr rowlands : although , you 'd probably be better off asking the welsh government directly . mark reckless am : yes , i agree—i think that would be better , but just to clarify finally from me , chair : is your point that , if that group is n't measured , then it is difficult to target them with this grant , and if we want them to be targeted with this grant , we should ensure that they 're tracked through that data system ? meilyr rowlands : yes , that sounds sensible . john griffiths am : okay . mark , i think you have some further questions on schools challenge cymru . mark reckless am : yes . did you consider that the schools challenge cymru programme was a success ? meilyr rowlands : it was certainly variable . it lasted for a relatively short period of time , so it 's quite difficult to be definitive about the evaluation of it , but it was certainly variable . it varied from school to school . some were very successful , some did n't make as much improvement . if it had lasted longer , maybe it would have made a difference . overall , the data made— . there were improvements overall for the 40 schools over and above the general improvement that there was for all schools in wales . so , you could say that it was successful in that respect . so , it 's quite difficult to say whether it was successful , because that was a fairly limited improvement for quite a lot of money . it is , you know , quite a difficult judgment to say whether it was successful or not overall . what strikes one , i think , was the variability in the success of it , and i think that was clear also at an operational level . it was clearly more successful in certain areas where all the various people involved in the work worked together effectively . so , the challenge adviser and the local authority and the regional consortia were all working effectively together . and , in other cases , they were n't , and there had to be changes in personnel and that sort of thing . so , it was quite variable . mark reckless am : of the five schools within the programme that estyn actually inspected in the last year of the programme , i think that three of those were in special measures and two required significant improvement . does n't that suggest that , as far as estyn engaged with the programme , your evidence was not to suggest that it was being successful ? meilyr rowlands : not wildly successful , certainly , but many of these schools would have been in those sorts of categories in the past as well . so , it 's not very surprising that many of them still remained . so , it was n't a huge success , clearly . as you say , many of these schools are still struggling schools , so it has n't been a panacea . mark reckless am : bearing in mind your remarks earlier over the focus on key stage 4 , in particular the c to d grade boundary , what sort of minimum length of time should a programme like this run for if we are to expect success ? meilyr rowlands : that 's a hugely difficult question to answer , and it is at the core of whether this initiative was successful . there has been research , and people have looked at things like the city challenge and have suggested that two or three years is too short a period to make a proper evaluation of how successful those particular initiatives were . i do n't know of similar evaluations to that particular point in wales for the schools challenge cymru , but with similar initiatives in england , the suggestion has been that you need at least three years to be able to evaluate it properly . mark reckless am : the schools challenge cymru advisers , i understand that estyn met with those termly through the programme . can you explain how useful that engagement was , and also perhaps compare or contrast it to the ongoing engagement you have with the advisers from the regional consortia ? meilyr rowlands : you know , the engagement we had with local authorities , and regional consortia , and with schools challenge cymru advisers was not really a problem for us . that was fine . i think the engagement with each other was more of the issue , really . i think the challenge for schools challenge cymru was that it was introduced at a time when regional consortia were just beginning . so , you had a period of time when it was n't entirely clear what the responsibilities of regional consortia were , compared with local authorities . that has developed and clarified over time , but at that time it was n't entirely clear . plus , you were bringing in another player to the school improvement landscape . when all of those different agencies worked well together , then that was a positive thing for schools . when they were all saying the same thing , having that extra resource , extra money , extra attention , was a positive thing ; but , clearly , in some cases , that relationship did n't always work , and some schools felt that they were being told different things by different agencies . clearly , that was one of the reasons why that wasn't as successful . mark reckless am : so , is welsh government now trying to do , through the regional consortia , what it was then trying to do through schools challenge cymru ? meilyr rowlands : well , what you had then was you had all three : you had local authorities and regional consortia and schools challenge cymru . so , what you have now is a clearer demarcation of who does what . i do n't think what welsh government are doing now is the same as what they were trying to do in schools challenge cymru , because i think what schools challenge cymru did , and did well , i think , was identify that there are a small number of secondary schools that have particular challenges and they need over and above the normal local authority/regional consortia support , they need over and above that a certain quantum of support and resource . i think that 's specifically what schools challenge cymru was trying to do , and that 's not quite the same as what the more universal provision of regional consortia is . john griffiths am : okay , that 's all we have time for in this session , i 'm afraid . there are some questions that we have n't reached that we 'll write to you on to obtain further responses , and there are some matters that you 've identified where you need to provide us with further information also . may i thank you very much for coming along this morning to give evidence ? you will be sent a transcript to check for factual accuracy in the usual way . thank you very much . the committee will now break for just over six minutes until 11:30 . welcome back , for item 3 on our agenda today , scrutiny of estyn 's annual report for 2016-17 . we 've got a number of areas to cover , but please , members , feel free to raise whatever issues you think appropriate , because the areas that we 've identified are a general guide only . okay , welcome back to estyn , our witnesses for this session also . i don't know if we need further introductions . i do n't think we do , really ; we 've already had that on the record . so , we 'll move straight into questions then , and llyr . llyr gruffydd am : thank you very much . just to start with , what 's your opinion about the way the government has been introducing reforms in this area over this past inspection cycle ? in general , what is your opinion about how effective that has been and how much of an impression has it had ? meilyr rowlands : well the seven year cycle encompasses three governments if truth be told , but there has been a sense of continuity and progress made in the nature of policy work in general , starting with the fundamental things such as literacy and numeracy in the first instance and also behaviour and attendance , as i said earlier this morning . and then they 've developed a far more comprehensive scheme that is at the heart of the development of the curriculum and pedagogy specifically . and i think that that general shift from the foundations—of literacy and numeracy—moving towards the curriculum and pedagogy does make sense . and the other trend that we 've seen is to promote collaboration and the self-improvement system , as it 's called . i also think that there are a number of progressive countries doing the same kind of thing . so , i think that the general direction is right . llyr gruffydd am : so , you think—and i 'd agree—that the focus on pedagogy is correct and that this culture that appears to be putting more emphasis on self-improvement , and so on , is a positive one . are there aspects that have n't worked as well in your opinion ? meilyr rowlands : of course , one accepts that one would like to see development and progress happening far more quickly , but , even in that instance , we need to balance the need that we all have to see progress with the pressures that are on teachers—there are so many things changing . i think that the most striking aspect in looking back over the past seven years is that all aspects of work in the education system—i 'm trying to avoid saying 'schools ' , because it 's more than just schools ; it 's colleges and the system as a whole—have changed . all aspects of that have changed , and i think that we need that—all of those aspects need to be changed and improved—but we need to balance that against the fact that we need to not go so fast , because workload on teachers— . this responsibility of self-improvement means that there is more pressure on teachers and headteachers , ultimately . that 's why estyn was very pleased to collaborate with 15 other bodies to give guidance on workload for teachers , because we have to be very careful to get that right as well . llyr gruffydd am : but is it disappointing , then , in the latest annual report , that you are to all intents and purposes coming to the conclusion that the performance is consistent with how it has been over the past inspection cycle ? would you not expect some kind of progress or something more significant in terms of outcomes ? meilyr rowlands : that 's one way of looking at it . another way , as i said earlier , is that all of these things are changing and , under those particular circumstances , that it 's a good thing that teachers and the education system have been able to maintain standards and the quality of education . llyr gruffydd am : the sector , of course , is continually evolving . we know that a number of these reforms are still playing out and are still being developed and introduced . of course , there is a risk that we are in this situation continuously , and therefore settling for managing to maintain , for me , perhaps would n't show enough ambition . is there a risk that we will find ourselves continually— ? as you say , the inspection cycle has seen three governments . there are changes and different policies and priorities being implemented . from what you say , that does prevent the development of the sector . meilyr rowlands : we are in the middle of a period of major change , and you 're right that there is more change to come . the new curriculum will reach key stage 4 in around seven years again , so we 're genuinely in the middle of this period of change . perhaps 'revolutionary ' is too strong a word , but it is the biggest change that i 've seen in my career . you have to go back to the 1980s and 1990s to see similar changes . of course , we all wish to see swifter progress being made , but what that means in practice is that you push more changes through , or that you push through the changes that we currently have more quickly . there was discussion , for example , about when the new curriculum should be introduced . those are the kinds of practical questions that arise , and you have to remember that , in the classroom , what you will have are individual teachers having to prepare for a new gcse , a new a-level , and there are new specifications in that regard , and it 's a great deal of work . so , we have to be very careful when we say that we need to accelerate that process . llyr gruffydd am : but you understand the point i was making about the risk of finding ourselves like this continually and therefore to say , if we were to interpret your conclusion in the recent report , that outcomes have been consistent over the inspection cycle does n't mean that we are pushing enough or that the reforms happen in a way that allows progress in performance terms . meilyr rowlands : i would wish to see that we would n't be in this position continuously . i think that— llyr gruffydd am : but you 've just suggested that there are seven years ahead of us yet in terms of introducing these reforms . meilyr rowlands : but i do think that the reforms , in looking at them holistically , are fundamental , as i was saying . you have to go back 30 , 40 years to see something similar . so , i do think that we need to look at— . one of the problems— . you ask what has n't worked in the past . well , i think one of the things , and it 's difficult to answer that question , but one of the things that has n't worked in the past is just doing one aspect of the system . we need to look at transforming the entire education system at the same time , because if you just tinker with one part then it might have an unintended effect in another place . so , i think we need to look at the system as a whole , and i think that what 's happening at the moment is a structural change to the system . llyr gruffydd am : yes , i think that 's a fair enough point . what 's your assessment , therefore , of how able or how ready schools are to deal with , in moving forward now , all of these changes and reforms ? meilyr rowlands : well , as i said , i think that they have coped with a whole host of changes , and that 's something to be praised . we are disappointed the standards have n't improved as much as we would have liked to have seen , but we also need to be congratulating the workforce for getting to grips with so many changes in a relatively short period . so , that does give one confidence that they will be able to cope with other changes in future . so , i am confident in that sense , but we do have to be careful in looking out for the workload , because the culture of promoting is one of giving more responsibilities to teachers , to schools , to colleges and to headteachers . so , we have to be very careful that that workload does n't become excessive . llyr gruffydd am : would you also share the concern that the reduction in school budgets will worsen those risks that you referred to ? meilyr rowlands : yes . as you 'll know , international research evidence shows that it is not the amount of funding that goes into education systems that dictates how effective they are . but it is true to say that , if you have financial cuts , that does cause practical problems for headteachers in having to lay off staff , and so on . so , it does take a lot of time and energy to deal with cuts . llyr gruffydd am : thanks . john griffiths am : okay . diolch yn fawr , llyr . mark . mark reckless am : could i ask the reasons for professor donaldson being asked to undertake a review of estyn 's role ? meilyr rowlands : yes . i think any good organisation would welcome external scrutiny . i would say that , would n't i , because i 'm an inspector , but i think it 's important that we practise what we preach . there have been in the past systems of quinquennial reviews . i think it is healthy for anybody to have that sort of external view , and i think in particular we 're proud in estyn that we are a body that is developing and trying new things and evolving continuously . so , i think it 's that . but if you were to ask , 'why now ? ' , it 's because of the extent of the education reform that we 're particularly facing . so , i think it 's a good thing to do at any given time , but considering the range and speed of change that we 're facing in education now , i thought it was particularly important that we ask graham donaldson to look at the implications for our work of all this education reform . mark reckless am : what have been the biggest benefits to wales of having estyn as an independent body inspecting schools and other institutions in wales compared to the work that ofsted has done in england ? meilyr rowlands : well , we have very good relationships with ofsted and with education scotland and the education training inspectorate in northern ireland . i would n't like to compare—i do n't think it would be fair to compare ourselves . we do things slightly differently , but we benefit a lot from each other . we have inspectors from ofsted or from scotland , from northern ireland , on our inspections . we shadow them , and our inspectors go to their countries . so , we 're working quite closely with the home countries , but also further afield with holland and with the republic of ireland , for example . so , we 're always , all of us , learning from one another about what we think they do well and what they think we do well . we 're constantly learning from each other . i would n't think it 's fair for me to say what i think—you know , where we 're better than another country . mark reckless am : of course . i 'm not asking you to criticise ofsted . i agree that would n't be appropriate . but i think what is fair for me to ask is : perhaps could you highlight one or two areas where you believe that estyn has a particular difference of emphasis and approach from ofsted ? meilyr rowlands : i think one of the things we 've done and we 've developed over many years is the use of the nominee and peer inspectors in particular . so , we 've got , i think , a really good tradition of doing that in wales , and when we do meet other inspectorates , they 're always very interested in that part of our work . we 're a very small organisation ; we 're only about 50 hmis . we inspect a wide range of sectors , as you know , but the bulk of that inspection work is actually done now by peer inspectors . so , i think that , and the idea of a nominee , is also of interest to other inspectorates across the world . so , there 's always someone from the body that we are inspecting on the inspection team . they 're part of all the discussions so they actually understand how we 've come to our report , and they can then help the organisation move forward after we 've left . mark reckless am : i 've clashed with welsh ministers on the absence of league tables for schools in wales , with less accountability for their results than is the case in england . i note it as a parent myself . but , from , i think , at some point in 2014 , you started in your inspection reports of primary schools putting the comparison of how they were doing compared to other schools and local authorities and nationally , as well as what you 've described as their family of schools , and being more transparent over their key stage 2 results . so , what led you to do that ? what difference has that made ? and was that decision taken by estyn on its own account , or was that something that was agreed with welsh ministers ? meilyr rowlands : i did listen to plenary , so i 've heard you raise this issue . i 'm sure it 's inadvertent on your part , but you 've confused absolutely everyone with this . mark reckless am : i 'm pleased to let you set the record straight , then . meilyr rowlands : it 's not actually true . the data that you refer to is published by the welsh government on my local school . so , if you want to know about your own school or any other school , you should go onto that website . that 's hugely— . it 's very clear . there 's a huge amount of data on it , but it 's very , very clear . you can look at it in terms of tables and data and graphs and it shows all that data that you refer to , and that 's the right place to have it . we do refer to some of that data in our reports , because our reports are based on evidence . most of it is first-hand evidence that we see in the classroom and see in pupils ' work , but we triangulate that with data and with what parents and pupils say and interviews with staff . so , we refer to that data and we always have referred to the data . pre 2014 , it was in the body of the text , and then after 2014 we put it in an appendix . we had a mid-cycle review and people felt it would be better in an appendix than in the body of the text , but it was always there . there 's pros and cons on whether it should be in the body of the text or in an appendix . mark reckless am : well , certainly , the data became clear to me in reports after 2014 in a way it was n't before . so , i will leave that there . can i just highlight a few of what i felt were either particularly striking statistics or comparisons or points that were made in your annual report of potential concern ? you state that headteachers do not understand the principles of good pedagogy or good practice in about three quarters of schools—this relates to the foundation phase . i find that quite a shocking statistic . do you share that view ? meilyr rowlands : yes . that 's why i highlighted it in my foreword . i think there is a general consensus about the benefits of the foundation phase . there 's a lot of research , and our own evidence shows that , where it is implemented well , pupils benefit a lot from it and they 're well prepared to be independent thinkers . so , it 's a development that we should be proud of in wales , i think , the foundation phase . it 's a great thing . but , we are disappointed that only about a quarter of primary schools are implementing it fully . there 's a whole range of reasons , as i discuss in the annual report , why that might be the case . it is quite an innovative idea , and i think it 's misunderstood by saying it 's learning through play , because that 's a bit too simplistic a definition of it . we have written a report recently on good practice in the foundation phase , so that we can try and explain clearly to people what the benefits of it are and how best to implement it . but i think it is true that too many headteachers— . many of them might not have taught in foundation phase , they might not have that infant background , they might have a junior-school background . there might not have been enough—well , we say there was n't enough training—or there might be people who missed any training that there was then . so , overall , there is a large number of leaders who do n't fully appreciate what the foundation phase could deliver . john griffiths am : darren—is it on this ? darren millar am : yes , it is on this . i was just wondering— . i mean , one of the problems that i know you 've identified in the past is this lack of good practice being able to travel into all parts of wales , and , of course , we 've got local authorities , we 've got regional consortia , we 've got the welsh government—all of which want to see good practice replicated where possible . what opportunities are there , perhaps , to develop some other further opportunities for good practice to be shared and promoted ? i know that the wales audit office , for example , has its good practice exchange . is there something similar that schools can engage with to make things happen ? meilyr rowlands : it 's a good question . i mean , specifically to do with foundation phase , there is a foundation phase—i ca n't remember what it 's called now—excellence network i think , which is being relaunched . i think it was supposed to be relaunched during the snow period . so , there are networks being established . there 's one for mathematics—a national network for excellence in mathematics—there 's one for science and there 's one for foundation phase in particular . so , i think it is a challenge that we have n't cracked yet in wales : how do we make sure that good practice does travel ? i think one specifically for foundation phase is a good idea , because we 've got a specific issue with the foundation phase . mark reckless am : when you say that— john griffiths am : mark , just before you go on , i think julie wanted to come in on this point as well . julie morgan am : yes . i just wondered if you could give us some examples about how the foundation phase is not being implemented in the true spirit of the foundation phase in the three quarters of schools that you think fall— . meilyr rowlands : well , what we mean by that is schools not necessarily teaching badly , but in a more traditional way . and where we 've seen that most obviously is in year 1 and year 2 . some schools actually reverted , after the introduction of the new tests , from what was pedagogy that was in line with the foundation phase . and basically , if i understand it correctly , it 's more to do with the children making their own choices about what they do . and that is pretty common in nursery and reception classes , but it 's less common in year 1 and year 2 . claire morgan : i think it is very much , as meilyr said , the difference between a pupil-led learning experience or a teacher-led learning experience . because of the lack of training and maybe the confidence to pursue that active and experiential learning approach , teachers have tended to resort to what they feel more comfortable with , which is more of an adult-led learning—often still high quality , but it does n't ensure that the learners become far more independent , far more engaged in their learning . so , it 's almost holding children back to an extent . they 're making good progress , but they could be making even more progress . john griffiths am : okay . mark . mark reckless am : so , when you say that some teachers are sort of holding children back , and in the report that three quarters of schools do n't understand the principles of good pedagogy or good practice , what you mean is that teachers are using traditional methods , including whole-class teaching , rather than moving towards a pupil-led learning experience and one that you said was oversimplified as learning through play . may not the issue here therefore be that estyn is seeking to impose this different approach on teachers who think that they are better able to teach children in the traditional way , which , at least in my experience , would be supported by quite a number of parents ? meilyr rowlands : i do n't think it 's estyn that's imposing it . that 's the national policy . mark reckless am : do you support that policy ? meilyr rowlands : well , we do , actually . we do . our evidence , as i said , is that , when it is implemented properly , pupils do actually gain from it . but we 're not imposing it , and what we 're saying is that headteachers are not necessarily understanding it . i think there is quite a lot of jargon around it . i was just looking in the annual report . quite unusually , in this section , we have had to actually explain some of the technical terms , like 'continuous provision ' . so that 's , i think , one of the reasons why people do n't understand it fully . that 's why we did produce this quite substantial bit of work , trying to unpack what this actually means in practice and giving a lot of good examples of the practice . mark reckless am : you referred to evidence of this approach working . given the timing of when it was brought in and where we are now , has that really had time to distil through the system and give compelling evidence that this approach works better than more traditional approaches ? meilyr rowlands : i think it has , to be fair . i think this has , because we 're talking about a lot of developmental work related to the foundation phase prior to 2010 , but it became compulsory for all schools to deliver it from 2010 onwards . so , that gives enough time for children to have been through the whole of the foundation phase onto key stage 2 , and we can see the effect of it . in the schools where there is good practice in the foundation phase , we can see the effect when we inspect on key stage 2 children . mark reckless am : so , would you be confident about this , in the next few years , feeding through into an improvement in programme for international student assessments , rather than a further deterioration ? meilyr rowlands : yes . i think that if we did what darren was talking about , getting more schools to share good practice , i think it will expand and more schools will take it on , yes . mark reckless am : okay . on the sharing of good practice , you put emphasis in the report on this being an improving area and trend for the future as well , but i think you did raise concerns that it was n't monitored or evaluated sufficiently well , particularly where one school was supporting another . how should that be done better ? meilyr rowlands : well , i think this has been a theme of many of the issues we 've raised : that , whatever the initiative , you ca n't tell whether it 's been successful or not unless you evaluate it properly . so , those evaluation skills , i think , are very important . i think that , with the development of the national academy for educational leadership , i would hope that research skills and evaluative skills would be part of the kind of training that headteachers get that maybe in the past they did n't . so , that becomes more of the day-to-day work of schools—that naturally , whenever you do something , you evaluate it afterwards . we 've evaluated a lot of the school-to-school work . we 've published two or three reports on it , and we 've identified what we think is good practice and not-so-good practice . john griffiths am : okay , mark ? if we move on at this stage—i wonder , before other members come in , if i could ask about community-focused schools . quite a lot of what we discussed earlier was around the importance of getting families and the community more involved in education , and one way of doing that , i think , is through community-focused schools that are very much accessible to the community , linked well with outside organisations , having an extended school-day offer . we have the twenty-first century schools programme , but we have a lot of schools existing that have n't been part of that . i just wondered to what extent estyn might encourage or highlight the need to encourage greater consistency in community-focused schools across wales , because i think there is a feeling that it is very inconsistent . meilyr rowlands : yes , we would very much be happy to support anything like that . we discussed it earlier . we were talking about targeting vulnerable learners earlier this morning . we see that as , particularly , a solution for that long-standing issue we have in wales in particular . so , yes , we do have good examples of good practice . we mentioned some of them earlier this morning . i 've puzzled about this . i think there was a bit of a misunderstanding about the term 'community-focused school ' . i think it became thought of as meaning the community just uses the facilities in the evening and , of course , it 's a much , much broader concept than that . i think some schools particularly did n't like the community using their facilities in the evening , and that became , i think , possibly part of the reason why community-focused schools did n't become more popular . the way i look at it is , as claire was explaining earlier about the school offering all kinds of services to people—you know , family learning , those sorts of nurture groups , all those sorts of educationally focused services available from the school , and generally building relationships . they 're more to do with the culture than the actual building and the facilities . but , yes , we certainly have seen and identified where that good practice exists . john griffiths am : so , if there might be a mechanism that could have community-focused schools working in the way that you 've described right across wales , would estyn be in favour of such a mechanism ? meilyr rowlands : absolutely , yes . john griffiths am : okay . could i just ask one further question , then , before , as i said , i bring other members in ? there is a particular concern at the moment—and has been for some time—about white working-class children , and perhaps particularly boys , not attaining as they should through our education system . is that something that estyn recognises ? has estyn done much work on that , and if so , what is that work ? meilyr rowlands : we 've done work on boys and girls , and we 've done work on deprived children—you know , identified , as we were discussing this morning , by eligibility for free school meals . we have n't specifically looked at white working-class boys , but a lot of the solutions , and a lot of the good practice that we have identified generally , through the pdg and whatever i think is the way forward for that particular cohort as well . john griffiths am : so , you would n't see the need for a particular focus or a particular piece of work to identify whether there are aspects of education that might particularly benefit that group . meilyr rowlands : i would n't object to doing a piece of work on that , in case we have missed something , but i suspect it would be the same schools that do well with that cohort that we 've identified already for the same reasons , i suspect . john griffiths am : okay . michelle . michelle brown am : thank you . to what extent has the rate of improvement differed between the primary and secondary sectors ? meilyr rowlands : i 'm not sure if there 's been a difference in the rate of improvement , but certainly i 've raised in this annual report , and indeed in previous annual reports , the difference between primary and secondary . we 've got 7 in 10—nearly three quarters—of primary schools doing well and about half of secondary schools . so , i did open debate on why that is the case in last year 's annual report . there are several reasons , i think . generally , there is a widening of gaps when you go from primary to secondary , but also it 's from foundation phase to key stage 2 to key stage 3 to key stage 4 . there 's a general widening of the gender gap , for example . there 's a widening of the free-school-meals gap and so forth . so , there are particular challenges facing secondary schools that do n't exist in primary . i should say that what you get in secondary schools is greater variability . so , there 's actually more excellence in secondary schools according to our inspections than in primary , although the overall proportion of good or better schools is higher in primary than in secondary . so , i think it is a challenge to think why this is the case . it 's partly because of the challenges of adolescent , young people . that is part of it . i think also , although i 've got no evidence for this , it 's probably more difficult for that community focus to work in a larger secondary school than a smaller primary school . you go to primary schools , you often see the parents much more engaged than in secondary school . so , i think that 's a bit more of a challenge as well . so , there is a whole range of issues . the other one , of course , is the one we were talking about earlier this morning , the pressure on secondary schools to address performance indicators and examinations in particular . another possible reason is the structure of secondary schools is subject-based , departmental-based , so children will get 10 to 12 different teachers . in primary school , for a whole year , they will have the same teacher . it 's easier , therefore , in a primary school for the school to see the child as an individual and recognise their problems and their needs as a whole . so , i think there is a whole range of issues that explains or goes part way to explaining what you 've identified . michelle brown am : okay , thank you . you touched on this quite a bit in your earlier evidence , but you said in the annual report that there 's a danger that accountability measures might be having an effect on the advice being given to pupils about subjects they study . do you have any evidence of that or is that a perception ? meilyr rowlands : well , i think everyone agrees that there 's very strong evidence about that . we discussed examples this morning . when you change a performance indicator , the examination pattern changes . we talked about examples like btec science this morning . there 's a very , very direct and immediate impact on them . there 's plenty of evidence of that . john griffiths am : okay , michelle ? perhaps we 'll move on at this stage—we have n't got a great deal of time left—if that 's okay . julie . julie morgan am : i wanted to ask about special schools in terms of your views about the standards in special schools—whether you 've got any views on that . meilyr rowlands : yes , we highlighted special schools as a successful sector in the annual report , as we have over many years . over 90 per cent of them are good or better . it 's a very successful sector . the small number of schools that do n't do quite as well tend to be the schools that deal with children with emotional and behavioural difficulties . but the sector as a whole is a good example of sharing good practice . they work very , very well together . they 're constantly— . it 's difficult to say why that is in this particular sector , as opposed to other sectors . possibly they do n't have an overlap in catchment areas , they 're quite geographically separate , so they do n't feel as if they 're in competition with one another . but they certainly work very well together , sharing good practice , doing peer reviews of each other . so , it is a successful sector . julie morgan am : and that includes the independent sector . meilyr rowlands : sorry , i should have said that was mainly to do with the maintained sector . the independent sector tends to focus maybe on those children with emotional and behavioural difficulties , so they have the more difficult task to begin with . but because they 're independent , they are , to some extent , in competition with one another . so , we have seen improvement in that independent special sector over the cycle . that 's partly down to the work we do in estyn . we visit them on an annual basis to make sure that they 're addressing all our recommendations , and continue to meet the needs of those pupils . and also , i think there 's been a trend where more of those independent schools now have— . several of them have the same owner , so they share good practice amongst that little chain of schools . so , that has been a trend we 've seen over time as well . julie morgan am : right . and what about pupil referral units ? how are the standards there ? meilyr rowlands : yes , they 're more variable . i think they have a lot of challenges . we 've contributed a lot of evidence to the various working groups that have been looking at eotas—that 's education other than at school . half the children in eotas—educated other than at school—are in prus . so , we 've done a lot of work about that . adew , which is the association of directors of education in wales , have now set up a national body to share good practice amongst prus , so i think that is a very positive step forward , because that sharing , i think , was n't happening with prus . i think what we need to do with prus is to get them to be more of a part of the education system as a whole . they tend to be sort of semi-detached a little bit from the system . so , the more we can do to involve them in national events , and also , i think , make their governance more like that of a school so that they become more similar to schools—that makes it easier for them to share practice with schools . john griffiths am : okay , thank you very much . llyr . llyr gruffydd am : thank you . i 'd just like to spend a minute or two looking more specifically at post-16 education . the percentage of further education colleges who have reached a good or better standard has increased , of course , over the past inspection cycle . i 'd just like to ask what you think is responsible for that , and are there any lessons we can take out of that and transfer to other sectors within education ? meilyr rowlands : thank you for the question , but i 'm going to ask simon to answer . simon brown : as you 're aware , the number of colleges from 22 to 12 , and i think those mergers resulted in establishments that were stronger in terms of their leadership in particular . that leadership , i think the characteristics we have seen in the 'good ' or 'better'—as you say , 80 per cent leadership good or better—has been a culture of openness , a culture of clarity of purpose about where the college is going . high staff morale has been maintained , because a number of those colleges— . obviously , if you 're merging large colleges as they did in north wales , keeping staff morale high is quite a skill , and i think the leadership have done that very well . they 've also supported managers at all levels , and they 've encouraged managers to support staff at all levels . so , it 's become a very collaborative , very supportive organisation . i think another characteristic of the fe sector is that it 's got very strong governance arrangements . i did a training session for college governors about a month ago , and what struck me was the breadth of experience of the college governors , from industry , from academia . they are a very challenging set of governors , i think , who hold the senior leadership to account in the colleges , and that helps to push standards forward . teaching is 'good ' or 'better ' in 70 per cent of colleges because the senior leadership team are encouraging teachers in colleges to innovate , encouraging them to engage actively in performance management systems , and to become reflective practitioners in the colleges . and this is impacting , obviously , on the standards at the end of the day . so , i think those are the key features . llyr gruffydd am : and how many of those do you think could effectively be transferred or encouraged in other sectors ? simon brown : but i think one sector that— . i think the other post-16 sector , which is work-based learning— llyr gruffydd am : well , yes , i was going to ask you . conversely , of course , there 's a different experience there . simon brown : yes , there is a contrast . and we do have concerns about work-based learning . and , again , those concerns tend to sit mainly with the leadership . as we said in the annual report , standards are 'good ' or 'better ' in only 50 per cent of work-based learning companies , mainly because the completion rates of learners are not what we 'd expect , the progression that learners make is n't what we 'd expect . and that is mainly due to the way in which the leadership teams monitor progress—monitor progress in themselves as a provider , but , more importantly , the way they manage sub-contractors , because , as you will already know , there 's 19 lead providers ; there 's about 100 training providers . and the companies that are doing better , or the training providers doing better , are those that have got a firm grip on their sub-contractors , and , most importantly , they put quality as the top part of any agenda at any meeting . and , of course , if you 're challenging your sub-contractors about quality , that will impact on standards of teaching , and , hopefully , ultimately , on standards of performance on the learners . and i think , to go back to your original question , llyr , the sort of leadership models that fe colleges have , i think some of the work-based learning providers would be wise to start to emulate those . it 's beginning to happen , because fe is getting more engaged in the work-based learning world , so i think some of those behaviours will start to rub off on the companies . llyr gruffydd am : so , who would you look to drive some of those changes through then ? is it the sector themselves , or to what extent can government and others do things ? simon brown : well , as you know , meilyr alluded to the changes across all sectors . we 've got pcet—we 've got the post-compulsory education and training reforms under way . the welsh government is looking at the implementation of hazelkorn 's recommendations . so , ultimately , that will start to drive the sectors closer together in post-16 . but i think , in the shorter term , some of the work that groups like colegau cymru and the national training federation wales are doing , sharing best practice , bringing the colleges and the training companies together , is beginning to help . i 'm going to the national training federation conference tomorrow in cardiff , and i notice the attendance there—there 's a lot of fe colleges attending , senior staff of fe colleges , as well as from the work-based training companies . so , that sort of osmosis of good practice is beginning to happen quite naturally . john griffiths am : okay , llyr ? we have n't got very long left , but we 've got five minutes or so for some further questions from hefin david . hefin david am : with regard to local authorities , you found shortcomings in your 2010-14 inspection in 15 of the 22 . and one of the things that struck me in the report was where you said that you found ineffective processes for self-evaluating improvement within those authorities , but you 've also said that there 's been a high turnover of directors and new directors in place in many of them . has that had a positive effect on that self-evaluation process ? simon brown : as you 're aware , over the past three years , out of the 22 authorities , there have been 40 new directors , over the past three years . those directors have got a range of experience . some of those directors are very experienced . other ones have come from headteachership fairly recently . so , that 's one factor . i think the other factor is that the status of education directors has changed quite significantly . some local authorities are a member of the corporate team and they are directors of education and children 's services , so they 've got very broad portfolios . in other ones , they 're being treated more like heads of service , so heads of department level . hefin david am : i know that caerphilly went in the opposite direction—from having a chief education officer to then appointing a director , i think . simon brown : i 'm sorry ? hefin david am : in caerphilly county borough , they went from having a chief education officer and now have got a director again . but , in many cases , they 're the same people , are n't they ? it's just that their roles are changed . simon brown : yes , it 's the changes as the corporate structure of councils shift and change . i think the other thing that 's happened , of course , with the role of the director of education , is , because of the regional consortia now doing the school improvement function , a large chunk of that role has now moved to the consortia . so , i think it 's early days to say what the impact of that new cohort of directors will be , but , of course , we 're starting a new inspection cycle in september . we do n't do pilots . we looked at neath port talbot in december ; we looked at denbighshire in february . those reports are not yet published , but what i can say is that neither of those authorities are in follow-up . hefin david am : but you said , even though it 's not in follow-up , it was still showing signs of not being able to reflect effectively on improvement—in the report . simon brown : not in those two authorities . hefin david am : right , okay , but some of those not in follow-up were not reflecting effectively on their improvement—is the statement that was made in the report . simon brown : what we 're seeing , and we 've seen this before in the previous cycle , is that the performance of some authorities is patchy . there are authorities that we have concerns about . those are the authorities— . i think i said to committee last year those authorities are ones that we held improvement conferences in last year . that was to get the senior leadership—both political and officer-led leadership—and the consortia and welsh government and the wales audit office and , as it was , the care and social services inspectorate wales , around the table to get those senior leadership teams to actually identify what the longer-term issues are , to surface those issues and to put together an action plan . we're revisiting those three authorities very , very shortly . the first of the revisits is in april to see what progress they 've made over the past 12 months or so . hefin david am : okay . and , with things like the curriculum reforms , you 've identified the new directors in place , but you 've said that , although they 're new directors , they're actually very experienced in education , so therefore you 're confident that they 're going to manage the reforms well as they are developed in the next few years . simon brown : i think one development , and i 've raised this in committee before , was— . one of our concerns , apart from the fact that there was a large turnover of directors , was what sort of level of training senior leaders and middle managers were getting in those authorities . one of the things that i 'm quite pleased to report is that the association of directors of education in wales and welsh government have stepped up to address that issue . last year , all serving directors attended residential courses run by the staff college wales , facilitated by adew , and adew have just finished the first round of director— . the name of the course is the 'welsh future leaders in education ' course and 26 people have just finished that—aspiring directors . they 're preparing for another cohort in september . that course , again , is developed by the staff college wales , but it has a lot of external input . they 're putting in directors and chief executives from scotland , they 're putting in headteachers of very successful schools in england , who 've got current grass-roots experience to share with these aspiring directors . so , i think the concerns that we had previously about the professional learning for middle managers and leaders in local authorities are being addressed . the proof will be in the pudding when we start to do the inspection cycle , but at least the issue now is being tackled . hefin david am : can i just look at , then , consortia ? one of the criticisms in the report was that national policy was n't being put in context—i think that was the statement in the report—in certain consortia . can you elaborate on what you meant by that ? simon brown : yes , when we talked , we said that— . well , two things are at play . one is that the national model for regional working is being revised at the moment , and that work is ongoing by welsh government . that is to bring greater consistency to the four consortia , because one of our concerns , which we expressed in this report and we expressed in previous years , is that , although the national model had a particular approach back in 2012 , when robert hill did the first review , it had a particular approach to the consortia being fairly similar , over the years , they 've gone in four different directions . to be fair , over the past couple of years , the consortia are now collaborating much closer together . they are working together—for example , i mentioned earlier about the regional co-ordinators for lac . those four people are meeting regularly . so , they 've all got different co-ordination roles in their regions . whereas before they were working more in silos , they are now working much closer together . so , i think what we were referring to , and what we were talking about in the report , is the fact that the consortia need to have a more consistent approach across all four regions . but that will certainly be driven by the new national model . hefin david am : okay . and the relationships with local authorities , you said that the sharing of information with the local authorities is not always acted upon by local authorities—from the consortia . is that a failure of communication , or is that something that sits with the local authority to acknowledge ? simon brown : i do n't think it 's a failure of communication . in the cases where some authorities have n't acted sufficiently in intervening in schools or in issuing warning letters , the consortia have been quite clear . the challenge advisers have highlighted these issues . it 's the authority that has n't acted as swiftly as we would expect it to . but , again , i think that is beginning to improve , because the local authorities are quite sensitive to the fact we are now going to be re-inspecting them and looking at them , and that is one of the issues we 'll be picking up on . hefin david am : okay . and , in order to do their jobs , the consortia need to be suitably resourced . are they , and are they fit for the challenges ahead ? simon brown : it 's not for us to comment on whether each consortium is sufficiently funded or not , but what we would say is that , generally , in the past , they 've spent perhaps too large a proportion of their funds on challenge work and not enough funding on support work , but that , again , is moving . we 've picked up that gwe , for example , is in the process of renaming their challenge advisers 'support advisers ' , because they 're moving their culture more over to supporting schools to deal with all the raft of reforms that meilyr mentioned , and that is , it seems to me , an entirely sensible way to go . hefin david am : okay . thank you . </s>
<s> how was the effectiveness of the pupil development grant funding ? </s> llyr gruffydd am : thank you , chair , and good morning . i just want to start by asking about your perception of how schools are using the pupil development grant funding , and to what extent they are genuinely targeting that funding exclusively towards children eligible for free school meals . meilyr rowlands : thank you for the question . this grant has been targeted far better by now than it was originally . estyn has made several reports regarding the effectiveness of the grant , and , really , going back to before this specific grant , to a similar grant , called raise . at the start of this grant , the funding was often spent on tackling underachievement , rather than dealing with the underachievement of children who are eligible for free school meals specifically . but , over a period of time , we have seen that it is targeted much better by now . that 's not to say that the targeting is working perfectly still , and i think that we are seeing examples where the targeting is n't going just to children who receive free school meals . schools sometimes interpret poverty in a slightly wider way than that . in terms of what schools are doing with the grant , we have given evidence to you of the kinds of things that they are doing . they are tracking progress of pupils , they are trying to improve attendance , they are trying to work with families and the community in general , they 're doing work specifically to improve how children are doing in exams , in key stage 4 , specifically—a lot of funding is being spent on that—improving the confidence of students , taking students on extra-curricular activities , improving literacy and numeracy . those are the kinds of activities they 're being used for . llyr gruffydd am : because the research by ipsos mori and the wales institute of social and economic research , data and methods has shown that there is some kind of blurring—i think that 's the term that they use—in terms of who is eligible . but you are relatively comfortable with the fact that there is sufficient targeting happening . you referred to the fact that it is used , perhaps , to reach a slightly wider cohort than just those who are eligible for free school meals , but you do feel that that balance , from your experience , is acceptable . </s>
<s> what was emphasized on the more able and talented stream ? </s> john griffiths am : mark , did you want to pursue these matters further ? mark reckless am : yes . i just wanted to ask about the more able and talented stream . it was good to read in your report an increased emphasis on this and to see your awareness of its importance in the pdg as well . can i just ask— ? would you look at one area regarding schools ' engagement with the seren network , particularly for the more able and talented , and what more estyn can do through its inspection criteria and otherwise to encourage this from schools ? meilyr rowlands : well , i think estyn has always been very strongly focused on improving the performance of more able pupils . for example , in last year 's annual report i raised it , and a lot of the debate around this now , i think , was generated by some of the things i 've said in previous annual reports . we gave a lot of evidence to the— . paul flynn , i think , did the—no , who did the report ? paul murphy did the report . so , we gave evidence to that . and on seren , i 'm particularly proud that my alma mater , jesus college , is a very strong supporter of the seren work . so , i 'm personally quite interested in the work of seren . and we look at the performance of more able pupils in all our inspections . it 's a particular part of our inspection framework—looking at the relative performance of different groups . so , we look at the different performance of boys and girls , free school meals and non-free school meals , ethnic minorities , but we also look at the performance of more able pupils in particular , and we question schools about how they provide for the more able pupils , and we 've referred to seren in several of our inspection reports . mark reckless am : and where schools work particularly hard to engage with seren and take up opportunities from that and push as many pupils as appropriate to work with that , is that something that you would recognise within your inspection reports ? and , on the other side , where schools do n't do that , is that something you would pull them up on ? meilyr rowlands : yes , we 've done that . we 've done it in several reports . claire morgan : throughout our inspections , we are looking for best practice , because part of our strategy is always to identify where there are weaknesses , but actually to point schools in the direction of where they can find a solution . so , capturing different approaches to more able and talented is part of the role of inspection . mark reckless am : thank you . llyr gruffydd am : just briefly , you touched earlier on using the measure of those who are eligible for free school meals as a way to identify children from disadvantaged backgrounds so that you can target this funding . varied evidence has been given to us on this . do you have an opinion on whether that 's the best way ? </s>
<s> what was the proportion of schools making effective use of the pdg ? </s> michelle brown am : thank you . good morning , everyone . you 've reported that the proportion of schools making effective use of the pdg remains around two thirds of secondary and primary schools , meaning that a third are still not using that pdg effectively . why do you think this is ? meilyr rowlands : i think that sort of proportion broadly corresponds to the schools that do n't have particularly good leadership . i think , ultimately , all of these sorts of initiatives come down to strong leadership and effective leadership—that they know how to organise and use those grants effectively . one of the shortcomings that we often identify is evaluation—that money has been spent on a particular way of using the grant , but it has not been evaluated well . so , i think quite a lot of it is to do with generic leadership skills . but those are some of the specific shortcomings to do with evaluation . michelle brown am : are there any patterns by region or type of school in that ? meilyr rowlands : i do n't think there 's any patterns that we 've identified in terms of region . claire morgan : as meilyr said , it 's very strongly linked to leadership capacity . michelle brown am : okay . thank you . what are the most effective uses of pdg , from your point of view ? is there something in particular that you think that schools should be focusing on ? </s>
<s> what did the pdg come into working with families ? </s> hefin david am : yes , you mentioned working with families when you were answering llyr . how does that happen , though ? what does it look like ? if i 'm a parent , what does it look like ? meilyr rowlands : okay . i 'll ask claire to give you an example . cefn hengoed is a good example of a school that has not cracked it but made a lot of progress . claire morgan : often , in the best schools , the headteachers consider themselves to be community leaders as well as headteachers , and they often set up arrangements where they engage directly with the families of disadvantaged children or children who are underachieving generally . they try to build very strong relationships with the families so that the school is in a position to either liaise with different agencies or to bring agencies into the school to address some of the issues that are outside school control . hefin david am : and where does the pdg come into this , and the use of it ? </s>
<s> how did the government plan to spread the method of building connections ? </s> hefin david am : and those lessons you 've learned from cefn hengoed : how are you going to spread that ? how does that get spread ? claire morgan : well , we 've done it in a number of ways . obviously , the first thing we do is the inspection report , and we highlight the practice there . we also have things— . this is an example of our best-practice case studies . we also have conferences as well , where we invite the headteachers from those schools to come and present to other headteachers . we also tweet , use social media , to try and get the message out there . but there 's also— hefin david am : this all seems like stuff that 's done to teachers . it does n't seem very engaging . </s>
<s> what did the meeting talk about the attainment gap between pupils on free school meals and those not on free school meals ? </s> michelle brown am : thank you , chair . you 've observed that the attainment gap between pupils on free school meals and those who are n't on free school meals has n't closed significantly at any stage of learning . is the pdg actually working ? meilyr rowlands : well , i 'm in danger of repeating myself now . it 's quite difficult to identify the cause and the effect in terms of the pdg . so , where there have been improvements , it 's quite difficult to say , 'well , that 's definitely down to the pdg ' , and similarly vice versa : if it 's not working , it 's difficult to say that it 's because of pdg not being used properly . to come back to something else i said previously , there have been small improvements . whether you say that that is due to pdg or not is quite difficult , but there have been some improvements . but there has n't been a major step change in closing that gap , that is true , and i think the conclusion that i draw is that these are major societal challenges and barriers that these young people face . schools can do a certain amount , and of course they must do a certain amount , but to have a step change you do need to engage with the learners , with the parents and with the community and that 's why the more successful schools do actually succeed—it 's because they do that . so , i think more of a push on that area at a national level would be welcome . michelle brown am : in most successful schools , how much is the attainment gap being narrowed , in the schools that make the most effective use of pdg ? meilyr rowlands : well , that would vary from school to school . we can look up specific examples for you of specific schools if you like . john griffiths am : yes , perhaps you could provide a note to the committee on that . meilyr rowlands : yes , i could have a list of schools and how much they 've closed , perhaps . michelle brown am : okay , i 'll move on . john griffiths am : perhaps you could include in that what you would consider to be a significant increase . meilyr rowlands : okay . fine . michelle brown am : thank you . in 2017 , we saw a re-widening of the attainment gap between pupils on free school meals and those not on free school meals . what effect do you think the welsh government 's changes to performance measures have had in terms of impact ? meilyr rowlands : yes , they definitely had a direct impact on it , and probably there might well be an indirect , longer-term impact as well . but , clearly , changing the performance indicators had a direct , immediate effect , because some of those examinations , qualifications , courses that were typically followed by this cohort of students were n't any longer part of the headline performance indicators . so , you 've all heard about btec science and the key skills qualifications . those sorts of things that many of these pupils used to succeed at , and therefore get the performance indicator for the school , no longer count . so , it 's had a direct impact , and it 's one of the reasons why it 's quite difficult to compare the results of one year and another , because of these changes in performance indicators . michelle brown am : yes , that makes sense . do you think there has n't been any— ? can we take it from what you 've said that there 's been a positive improvement , or has it been negative ? meilyr rowlands : i think there 's a growing realisation that secondary schools , key stage 4 , is driven overly by performance indicators , and , whatever performance indicator you come up with , there will be unintended consequences . so , it 's not , i think , useful to keep changing the performance indicators and think that you will get to a point where you solve the problem . that 's not likely to happen . what needs to be done is to have a different approach to accountability that does n't put so much attention on these performance indicators , because what you 're doing is you 're just moving the problem around by changing the performance indicators . some of these vocational courses that i mentioned are a good example of this . so , i think the previous performance indicators encouraged schools to enter , for example , whole cohorts to do btec science , and that 's not a good idea because the gcse sciences are better preparation to go on to a-level science , for example . so , you 're cutting out the possibility of progression for those pupils . on the other hand , by discouraging—the new performance indicators discourage btec and now people are saying , 'we 're not offering btec at all ' , and it is suitable for a certain cohort of pupils . so , it 's very difficult to get the performance indicators absolutely right if you put so much pressure on schools to actually achieve those performance indicators . john griffiths am : michelle , i 'd just like to bring in darren at this point . darren millar am : i share some of your concern around the unavailability now of btec in some schools . it strikes me that the decision to discourage the availability of btec , which is what the performance measures do , really is sending a message about vocational qualifications that is not helpful , actually , to many young people for whom vocational qualifications may be perfectly suitable . is that something with which you concur ? </s>
<s> what were the reasons for professor donaldson being asked to undertake a review of estyn 's role ? </s> mark reckless am : could i ask the reasons for professor donaldson being asked to undertake a review of estyn 's role ? </s>
<s> what were the benefits to wales of having an independent body for inspecting ? </s> mark reckless am : what have been the biggest benefits to wales of having estyn as an independent body inspecting schools and other institutions in wales compared to the work that ofsted has done in england ? meilyr rowlands : well , we have very good relationships with ofsted and with education scotland and the education training inspectorate in northern ireland . i would n't like to compare—i do n't think it would be fair to compare ourselves . we do things slightly differently , but we benefit a lot from each other . we have inspectors from ofsted or from scotland , from northern ireland , on our inspections . we shadow them , and our inspectors go to their countries . so , we 're working quite closely with the home countries , but also further afield with holland and with the republic of ireland , for example . so , we 're always , all of us , learning from one another about what we think they do well and what they think we do well . we 're constantly learning from each other . i would n't think it 's fair for me to say what i think—you know , where we 're better than another country . mark reckless am : of course . i 'm not asking you to criticise ofsted . i agree that would n't be appropriate . but i think what is fair for me to ask is : perhaps could you highlight one or two areas where you believe that estyn has a particular difference of emphasis and approach from ofsted ? </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the lack of good practice being able to travel into all parts of wales ? </s> darren millar am : yes , it is on this . i was just wondering— . i mean , one of the problems that i know you 've identified in the past is this lack of good practice being able to travel into all parts of wales , and , of course , we 've got local authorities , we 've got regional consortia , we 've got the welsh government—all of which want to see good practice replicated where possible . what opportunities are there , perhaps , to develop some other further opportunities for good practice to be shared and promoted ? i know that the wales audit office , for example , has its good practice exchange . is there something similar that schools can engage with to make things happen ? meilyr rowlands : it 's a good question . i mean , specifically to do with foundation phase , there is a foundation phase—i ca n't remember what it 's called now—excellence network i think , which is being relaunched . i think it was supposed to be relaunched during the snow period . so , there are networks being established . there 's one for mathematics—a national network for excellence in mathematics—there 's one for science and there 's one for foundation phase in particular . so , i think it is a challenge that we have n't cracked yet in wales : how do we make sure that good practice does travel ? i think one specifically for foundation phase is a good idea , because we 've got a specific issue with the foundation phase . mark reckless am : when you say that— john griffiths am : mark , just before you go on , i think julie wanted to come in on this point as well . julie morgan am : yes . i just wondered if you could give us some examples about how the foundation phase is not being implemented in the true spirit of the foundation phase in the three quarters of schools that you think fall— . meilyr rowlands : well , what we mean by that is schools not necessarily teaching badly , but in a more traditional way . and where we 've seen that most obviously is in year 1 and year 2 . some schools actually reverted , after the introduction of the new tests , from what was pedagogy that was in line with the foundation phase . and basically , if i understand it correctly , it 's more to do with the children making their own choices about what they do . and that is pretty common in nursery and reception classes , but it 's less common in year 1 and year 2 . </s>
<s> what was the way to get families and the community more involved in education ? </s> john griffiths am : okay . diolch yn fawr , llyr . mark . mark reckless am : could i ask the reasons for professor donaldson being asked to undertake a review of estyn 's role ? meilyr rowlands : yes . i think any good organisation would welcome external scrutiny . i would say that , would n't i , because i 'm an inspector , but i think it 's important that we practise what we preach . there have been in the past systems of quinquennial reviews . i think it is healthy for anybody to have that sort of external view , and i think in particular we 're proud in estyn that we are a body that is developing and trying new things and evolving continuously . so , i think it 's that . but if you were to ask , 'why now ? ' , it 's because of the extent of the education reform that we 're particularly facing . so , i think it 's a good thing to do at any given time , but considering the range and speed of change that we 're facing in education now , i thought it was particularly important that we ask graham donaldson to look at the implications for our work of all this education reform . mark reckless am : what have been the biggest benefits to wales of having estyn as an independent body inspecting schools and other institutions in wales compared to the work that ofsted has done in england ? meilyr rowlands : well , we have very good relationships with ofsted and with education scotland and the education training inspectorate in northern ireland . i would n't like to compare—i do n't think it would be fair to compare ourselves . we do things slightly differently , but we benefit a lot from each other . we have inspectors from ofsted or from scotland , from northern ireland , on our inspections . we shadow them , and our inspectors go to their countries . so , we 're working quite closely with the home countries , but also further afield with holland and with the republic of ireland , for example . so , we 're always , all of us , learning from one another about what we think they do well and what they think we do well . we 're constantly learning from each other . i would n't think it 's fair for me to say what i think—you know , where we 're better than another country . mark reckless am : of course . i 'm not asking you to criticise ofsted . i agree that would n't be appropriate . but i think what is fair for me to ask is : perhaps could you highlight one or two areas where you believe that estyn has a particular difference of emphasis and approach from ofsted ? meilyr rowlands : i think one of the things we 've done and we 've developed over many years is the use of the nominee and peer inspectors in particular . so , we 've got , i think , a really good tradition of doing that in wales , and when we do meet other inspectorates , they 're always very interested in that part of our work . we 're a very small organisation ; we 're only about 50 hmis . we inspect a wide range of sectors , as you know , but the bulk of that inspection work is actually done now by peer inspectors . so , i think that , and the idea of a nominee , is also of interest to other inspectorates across the world . so , there 's always someone from the body that we are inspecting on the inspection team . they 're part of all the discussions so they actually understand how we 've come to our report , and they can then help the organisation move forward after we 've left . mark reckless am : i 've clashed with welsh ministers on the absence of league tables for schools in wales , with less accountability for their results than is the case in england . i note it as a parent myself . but , from , i think , at some point in 2014 , you started in your inspection reports of primary schools putting the comparison of how they were doing compared to other schools and local authorities and nationally , as well as what you 've described as their family of schools , and being more transparent over their key stage 2 results . so , what led you to do that ? what difference has that made ? and was that decision taken by estyn on its own account , or was that something that was agreed with welsh ministers ? meilyr rowlands : i did listen to plenary , so i 've heard you raise this issue . i 'm sure it 's inadvertent on your part , but you 've confused absolutely everyone with this . mark reckless am : i 'm pleased to let you set the record straight , then . meilyr rowlands : it 's not actually true . the data that you refer to is published by the welsh government on my local school . so , if you want to know about your own school or any other school , you should go onto that website . that 's hugely— . it 's very clear . there 's a huge amount of data on it , but it 's very , very clear . you can look at it in terms of tables and data and graphs and it shows all that data that you refer to , and that 's the right place to have it . we do refer to some of that data in our reports , because our reports are based on evidence . most of it is first-hand evidence that we see in the classroom and see in pupils ' work , but we triangulate that with data and with what parents and pupils say and interviews with staff . so , we refer to that data and we always have referred to the data . pre 2014 , it was in the body of the text , and then after 2014 we put it in an appendix . we had a mid-cycle review and people felt it would be better in an appendix than in the body of the text , but it was always there . there 's pros and cons on whether it should be in the body of the text or in an appendix . mark reckless am : well , certainly , the data became clear to me in reports after 2014 in a way it was n't before . so , i will leave that there . can i just highlight a few of what i felt were either particularly striking statistics or comparisons or points that were made in your annual report of potential concern ? you state that headteachers do not understand the principles of good pedagogy or good practice in about three quarters of schools—this relates to the foundation phase . i find that quite a shocking statistic . do you share that view ? meilyr rowlands : yes . that 's why i highlighted it in my foreword . i think there is a general consensus about the benefits of the foundation phase . there 's a lot of research , and our own evidence shows that , where it is implemented well , pupils benefit a lot from it and they 're well prepared to be independent thinkers . so , it 's a development that we should be proud of in wales , i think , the foundation phase . it 's a great thing . but , we are disappointed that only about a quarter of primary schools are implementing it fully . there 's a whole range of reasons , as i discuss in the annual report , why that might be the case . it is quite an innovative idea , and i think it 's misunderstood by saying it 's learning through play , because that 's a bit too simplistic a definition of it . we have written a report recently on good practice in the foundation phase , so that we can try and explain clearly to people what the benefits of it are and how best to implement it . but i think it is true that too many headteachers— . many of them might not have taught in foundation phase , they might not have that infant background , they might have a junior-school background . there might not have been enough—well , we say there was n't enough training—or there might be people who missed any training that there was then . so , overall , there is a large number of leaders who do n't fully appreciate what the foundation phase could deliver . john griffiths am : darren—is it on this ? darren millar am : yes , it is on this . i was just wondering— . i mean , one of the problems that i know you 've identified in the past is this lack of good practice being able to travel into all parts of wales , and , of course , we 've got local authorities , we 've got regional consortia , we 've got the welsh government—all of which want to see good practice replicated where possible . what opportunities are there , perhaps , to develop some other further opportunities for good practice to be shared and promoted ? i know that the wales audit office , for example , has its good practice exchange . is there something similar that schools can engage with to make things happen ? meilyr rowlands : it 's a good question . i mean , specifically to do with foundation phase , there is a foundation phase—i ca n't remember what it 's called now—excellence network i think , which is being relaunched . i think it was supposed to be relaunched during the snow period . so , there are networks being established . there 's one for mathematics—a national network for excellence in mathematics—there 's one for science and there 's one for foundation phase in particular . so , i think it is a challenge that we have n't cracked yet in wales : how do we make sure that good practice does travel ? i think one specifically for foundation phase is a good idea , because we 've got a specific issue with the foundation phase . mark reckless am : when you say that— john griffiths am : mark , just before you go on , i think julie wanted to come in on this point as well . julie morgan am : yes . i just wondered if you could give us some examples about how the foundation phase is not being implemented in the true spirit of the foundation phase in the three quarters of schools that you think fall— . meilyr rowlands : well , what we mean by that is schools not necessarily teaching badly , but in a more traditional way . and where we 've seen that most obviously is in year 1 and year 2 . some schools actually reverted , after the introduction of the new tests , from what was pedagogy that was in line with the foundation phase . and basically , if i understand it correctly , it 's more to do with the children making their own choices about what they do . and that is pretty common in nursery and reception classes , but it 's less common in year 1 and year 2 . claire morgan : i think it is very much , as meilyr said , the difference between a pupil-led learning experience or a teacher-led learning experience . because of the lack of training and maybe the confidence to pursue that active and experiential learning approach , teachers have tended to resort to what they feel more comfortable with , which is more of an adult-led learning—often still high quality , but it does n't ensure that the learners become far more independent , far more engaged in their learning . so , it 's almost holding children back to an extent . they 're making good progress , but they could be making even more progress . john griffiths am : okay . mark . mark reckless am : so , when you say that some teachers are sort of holding children back , and in the report that three quarters of schools do n't understand the principles of good pedagogy or good practice , what you mean is that teachers are using traditional methods , including whole-class teaching , rather than moving towards a pupil-led learning experience and one that you said was oversimplified as learning through play . may not the issue here therefore be that estyn is seeking to impose this different approach on teachers who think that they are better able to teach children in the traditional way , which , at least in my experience , would be supported by quite a number of parents ? meilyr rowlands : i do n't think it 's estyn that's imposing it . that 's the national policy . mark reckless am : do you support that policy ? meilyr rowlands : well , we do , actually . we do . our evidence , as i said , is that , when it is implemented properly , pupils do actually gain from it . but we 're not imposing it , and what we 're saying is that headteachers are not necessarily understanding it . i think there is quite a lot of jargon around it . i was just looking in the annual report . quite unusually , in this section , we have had to actually explain some of the technical terms , like 'continuous provision ' . so that 's , i think , one of the reasons why people do n't understand it fully . that 's why we did produce this quite substantial bit of work , trying to unpack what this actually means in practice and giving a lot of good examples of the practice . mark reckless am : you referred to evidence of this approach working . given the timing of when it was brought in and where we are now , has that really had time to distil through the system and give compelling evidence that this approach works better than more traditional approaches ? meilyr rowlands : i think it has , to be fair . i think this has , because we 're talking about a lot of developmental work related to the foundation phase prior to 2010 , but it became compulsory for all schools to deliver it from 2010 onwards . so , that gives enough time for children to have been through the whole of the foundation phase onto key stage 2 , and we can see the effect of it . in the schools where there is good practice in the foundation phase , we can see the effect when we inspect on key stage 2 children . mark reckless am : so , would you be confident about this , in the next few years , feeding through into an improvement in programme for international student assessments , rather than a further deterioration ? meilyr rowlands : yes . i think that if we did what darren was talking about , getting more schools to share good practice , i think it will expand and more schools will take it on , yes . mark reckless am : okay . on the sharing of good practice , you put emphasis in the report on this being an improving area and trend for the future as well , but i think you did raise concerns that it was n't monitored or evaluated sufficiently well , particularly where one school was supporting another . how should that be done better ? meilyr rowlands : well , i think this has been a theme of many of the issues we 've raised : that , whatever the initiative , you ca n't tell whether it 's been successful or not unless you evaluate it properly . so , those evaluation skills , i think , are very important . i think that , with the development of the national academy for educational leadership , i would hope that research skills and evaluative skills would be part of the kind of training that headteachers get that maybe in the past they did n't . so , that becomes more of the day-to-day work of schools—that naturally , whenever you do something , you evaluate it afterwards . we 've evaluated a lot of the school-to-school work . we 've published two or three reports on it , and we 've identified what we think is good practice and not-so-good practice . john griffiths am : okay , mark ? if we move on at this stage—i wonder , before other members come in , if i could ask about community-focused schools . quite a lot of what we discussed earlier was around the importance of getting families and the community more involved in education , and one way of doing that , i think , is through community-focused schools that are very much accessible to the community , linked well with outside organisations , having an extended school-day offer . we have the twenty-first century schools programme , but we have a lot of schools existing that have n't been part of that . i just wondered to what extent estyn might encourage or highlight the need to encourage greater consistency in community-focused schools across wales , because i think there is a feeling that it is very inconsistent . meilyr rowlands : yes , we would very much be happy to support anything like that . we discussed it earlier . we were talking about targeting vulnerable learners earlier this morning . we see that as , particularly , a solution for that long-standing issue we have in wales in particular . so , yes , we do have good examples of good practice . we mentioned some of them earlier this morning . i 've puzzled about this . i think there was a bit of a misunderstanding about the term 'community-focused school ' . i think it became thought of as meaning the community just uses the facilities in the evening and , of course , it 's a much , much broader concept than that . i think some schools particularly did n't like the community using their facilities in the evening , and that became , i think , possibly part of the reason why community-focused schools did n't become more popular . the way i look at it is , as claire was explaining earlier about the school offering all kinds of services to people—you know , family learning , those sorts of nurture groups , all those sorts of educationally focused services available from the school , and generally building relationships . they 're more to do with the culture than the actual building and the facilities . but , yes , we certainly have seen and identified where that good practice exists . john griffiths am : so , if there might be a mechanism that could have community-focused schools working in the way that you 've described right across wales , would estyn be in favour of such a mechanism ? </s>
<s> to what extent had the rate of improvement differed between the primary and secondary sectors ? </s> michelle brown am : thank you . to what extent has the rate of improvement differed between the primary and secondary sectors ? </s>
<s> what did the meeting discuss about the standards in special schools ? </s> julie morgan am : i wanted to ask about special schools in terms of your views about the standards in special schools—whether you 've got any views on that . meilyr rowlands : yes , we highlighted special schools as a successful sector in the annual report , as we have over many years . over 90 per cent of them are good or better . it 's a very successful sector . the small number of schools that do n't do quite as well tend to be the schools that deal with children with emotional and behavioural difficulties . but the sector as a whole is a good example of sharing good practice . they work very , very well together . they 're constantly— . it 's difficult to say why that is in this particular sector , as opposed to other sectors . possibly they do n't have an overlap in catchment areas , they 're quite geographically separate , so they do n't feel as if they 're in competition with one another . but they certainly work very well together , sharing good practice , doing peer reviews of each other . so , it is a successful sector . julie morgan am : and that includes the independent sector . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : uh welcome back after lunch , i hope uh you had a good lunch together . for uh this meeting the main agenda okay uh to discuss about the conceptual design meeting . okay and the agenda will be the opening and uh that 's uh the product manager or secretary that 's me and uh the presentations from the christine and uh agnes and from mister ed . and finally in this meeting we have to decide marketing : project manager : and we are to take a decision on the remote control concept and uh the functional design so we have forty minutes , i think it 's uh little bit uh low , but i i hope we can finish it up so i 'll handle to the the functional team , to the christine , okay , to discuss about uh the components concept . industrial designer : okay . so uh , if you could open the powerpoint presentation . marketing : industrial designer : i 'm number two . project manager : you 're number two . 'kay industrial designer : components design , there we go . marketing : industrial designer : so uh can we put it in slide show mode ? yeah . project manager : the next one . industrial designer : right here , is that little that one , yes please . marketing : industrial designer : thank you . project manager : industrial designer : i 'll take the mouse . so uh project manager : industrial designer : we were looking he specifically at the components uh the following components , uh the case , the power supply , uh the means of communications with the television set . in instance we had talked about using some sort of speech recognition , project manager : industrial designer : you have to have microphone well no you do n't actually i have n't have to have microphone in the device , but um maybe you do have it a a way marketing : industrial designer : it has to it has to hear the speaker user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and um , so it could be in the television set , could be in the device , but somewhere you have to put the microphone , um and a w a way of making beeps or sounds so you can find it when it 's gets lost . um so the other w thing that we so . our method for going about this is we 've looked at uh the histo hi historical record , what 's worked , what has n't and then we also um we wanted to evaluate some new materials marketing : industrial designer : and we contacted manufacturing for their input because , course , we m might come up and choose the material that then manufacturing did n't have the technologies or capabilities to offer us , so uh this is the approach that we took during our um our research . marketing : industrial designer : so um for the case , um we told we were making a specifica specific assumption that it would be curved in design . marketing : industrial designer : course , you know , i wanted it to be expandable and shrinkable , but um that uh does n't seem to b be one of the choic non-option we can uh we can really seriously explore , user interface : industrial designer : so then we were thinking about um rubber , but um unfortunately that 's been eliminated because of the heat uh factor user interface : industrial designer : and th um there might be some problems with the m uh how it 's uh goes with the board . uh and uh then th plastic also has this problem of melting and it 's brittle it gets brittle after a while , user interface : industrial designer : so um we still had titanium and and wood available , but um unfortunately uh uh titanium 's also been eliminated uh , user interface : industrial designer : the m people in manufacturing said that you could n't make d curved cases out of titanium , although how apple did it with th powerbook i 'm not su quite sure but uh nevertheless um they 've eliminated all of our options except wood . user interface : at least it 's environmentally friendly . industrial designer : so , this is our finding . marketing : industrial designer : and a as she said , it 's an environmentally friendly uh material , so we 're we 're currently uh proposing , marketing : industrial designer : uh we 'll get to all my personal preferences in just a second . marketing : industrial designer : so then there 's this other matter of the chips and um well we could use a simple design on the board , user interface : project manager : industrial designer : uh these simple chips , but that 's only works for the bu you do n't get very much um intelligence with this simple one . and um then there was the regular which i regret that i 've forgotten exactly why i 'm eliminating that one . uh the other option was this advanced chip on print , and uh we liked th we we found that it it includes this infrared sender , marketing : industrial designer : which w 'member the beam was that was an important component of finding the right chip . marketing : industrial designer : and uh manufacturing has told us that they 've um uh recently developed a uh a sensor and a speaker that would uh be integrated into this advanced chip on print , so uh we we uh now jumping right to our personal preferences um i i 'd really think we should , you know , use some of uh some really exotic woods , like um , user interface : industrial designer : you know uh , well you guys come from tropical countries so you can kinda think of some trees and some nice woods . i think that people will might really want to design their own cases , you see , they could do sort of a this um three-dimensional design on the internet , and then they could submit their orders , kinda like you submit a custom car order , you know , and you can choose the colour and the size of the wheels and the colours of the leather and things like that , and then i uh think we should go with the solar cells as well as the um microphone and speaker on the advanced chip . so this is the findings of our research marketing : industrial designer : and my recommendations um for the new remote control w um would be to have um have it be made out of wood . do you have any problems with that ? project manager : can you go back uh one slide ? industrial designer : i 'm not sure , how do i oh , i know , let 's see . user interface : thank you . yeah . industrial designer : let 's go back up here . project manager : yes , uh question , uh , what 's mean exactly , advanced chip on print ? what 's the meaning of that ? industrial designer : i think it 's um um a multiple uh chip design um and it 's uh maybe printed on to the circuit board . user interface : project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : industrial designer : uh i could find out more about that uh before the next fi next meeting . project manager : yeah , is it means it 's on the yeah is it on a micro-proc micro-processor based or uh industrial designer : i do n't know , but i 'll find out more at our next meeting . project manager : okay , tha that would be great , so if you find out from the technology background , okay , so that would be good . marketing : industrial designer : sounds good . user interface : why was the plastic eliminated as a possible material ? industrial designer : because um it gets brittle , cracks user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um we want we expect these um uh these remote controls to be around for several hundred years . so . good ex good expression . user interface : whic which marketing : good expression . well after us . user interface : industrial designer : i do n't know , speak for yourself , i 'm planning to be around for a while . user interface : although i think marketing : user interface : i think with wood though you 'd run into the same types of problems , would n't you , i mean it chips , it if you drop it , industrial designer : marketing : user interface : uh it 's i 'm not su industrial designer : project manager : so so you 're not convinced about the the wood , yes . user interface : industrial designer : you 're what ? marketing : actually , i 'm ready to sell it . user interface : i think if you re if you use really good quality wood , then it might work , marketing : i 'm ready to sell it . industrial designer : you think ? and you could you could sell oils with it , to take care of it . user interface : but you ca n't just use marketing : no y no no no , the o the only w the only wood you can use are the ones that are hard , extremely hard wood , user interface : yeah , exactly , yeah . marketing : but there are some very pretty woods out there . industrial designer : well i 'm glad you user interface : marketing : that 's actually very innovative idea . industrial designer : okay , good . user interface : industrial designer : sorr having a hard time keeping wi control over my face . marketing : industrial designer : marketing : well , it 's actually a very innovative n different idea that uh you know you can choose your colour of wood , your type of wood . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : the stain . marketing : i mean it 's each person is gon na have their own personalised , individualised speech recognition remote control in wood , that 's not on the market . user interface : project manager : yeah , so it it 's looks good the the design the functional design uh , what about yo you ? marketing : user interface : um , in terms of comments on this or in terms of my own project manager : yes , in t yes , in term in terms of comments first marketing : in turns of wow . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : she works in the cubicle next to me so she 's uh she was already a little bit prepared for this . user interface : y yeah . marketing : industrial designer : luckily ed was not . user interface : marketing : wood ? user interface : i think we can get the quality materials then it should n't influence the design principles too much , which you 'll see with my presentation . marketing : user interface : one thing we 'd have to check though is what the users whether how quickly the novelty wears off of having uh industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah , you would n't wan na have to have splinters in your hand while you 're using your user interface : yeah , for example . so , have to see how kid-friendly it is and and all that , marketing : industrial designer : it 's really good if your dog gets ahold of it , they can use it for teething . user interface : but marketing : user interface : marketing : they do that anyway with the rubber and plastic , industrial designer : yeah , they do it with other materials as well , yeah . marketing : so , and chew 'em up . and chew 'em up . project manager : okay then , uh , let 's move to agnes . user interface : sure . industrial designer : oh , i 'm sorry . project manager : s you 're user interface : project manager : you are in participant three . user interface : one point three , yeah marketing : user interface : uh , yeah . project manager : this one ? user interface : i think so , yeah . yeah , that 's the one . so , it 's a very short presentation , 'cause i 'm actually gon na draw you the layout on the board so if you want to just go straight to the second slide , um , which basically shows , sort of marketing : user interface : i took the ideas that we were talking about last time um and tried to put that into the remote control so the things that y you can actually see on it are the on off switch , volume and channel control , the menu access button , ergonomic shape , which i completely agree with christine 's idea to have it sort of molded , so it 's slightly more ergonomic and comfortable to hold than the r standard very straight remote controls . and actually the other thing with the wood if we take your customising idea , is that people can actually do sort of quasi-measurements on their hand size , so if someone has larger hands , you have a wider remote control . industrial designer : right , my hand is uh different size than yours for example . user interface : so , that 's actually a really good idea for customi customisability . um , one thing i thought might be kind of interesting is to put a flip screen on it , just like you have on flip phones , marketing : user interface : so that you do n't have this case where someone sits on the remote control or accidentally puts their hand on it , especially if you have little kids around , they 're not pressing the buttons while you 're trying to watch a tv show and accidentally change the channel or turn it off . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and also um you had issues with the batteries running out , marketing : user interface : so i thought maybe we could put a little battery life-light on it that kind of goes dimmer and dimmer and dimmer as your battery is starts to die . and in terms of invisible features , audio and um tactile feedback on button presses and , like you said , speech recognition . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so , in terms of what this thing would actually look like marketing : user interface : despite working in interface design , i 'm not the greatest artist in the world , so you 'll have to forgive me . you 'd have something like this with an on-off switch fairly big , sort of in the corner and by itself , so you do n't accidentally turn your tv off while you 're trying to manoeuvre other buttons . and then you have sort of one of those toggle displays for , oops , channels and volume , sort of for surfing channels and then volume , so the volume would be the up and down , 'cause volume goes up and down and then channels left to right . and then here you 'd have your sort of standard , telephonish number pad . and then on one side you would have an access to the menu on your tv project manager : user interface : and on the other side a way to turn off the voice control . so that if the user does n't want to use their voice , they can just turn it off and you do n't have the remote control accidentally changing things on you . industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . user interface : um , so again you can have a little lcd light somewhere , the flip thing and have i forgotten anything ? i do n't think so . so , as you can see , it 's a very very simple design , marketing : no . project manager : user interface : which is one of the things i really wanted to keep , is keep it simple , not have too many buttons , not have too many functionalities thrown into it . think the design can pretty much carry over to everything , although with the wood the flip screen might have to do something slightly different . project manager : industrial designer : a hinge . be like a copper hinge or you know . project manager : user interface : yeah . but you also have to d start watching out for the weight , 'cause depending on how much the the flip screen will add to the weight of the remote control , you do n't want it to start getting too heavy . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm . user interface : but that 's the general layout with the general functionalities , if we come up with something else . as you can see , there 's still lots of space on the actual remote control and if you do it customisably , you can make this thing fairly small or fairly o large , depending on personal preferences . industrial designer : mm-hmm , mm-hmm . user interface : so , that 's pretty much all i had to say , i mean , everything else in terms of design issues . um the centering of the key pad and the channel is just depending on where your thumb is and you tend to use the the volume control and uh the browsing more than the actual number pad , so that would be sort of in direct line of where your thumb goes when you are holding the remote control , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : the number pad a little bit lower 'cause it 's used less frequently . industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . user interface : so once we decide exactly what we want , then we can figure out the exact positioning , but more or less i think it should go along those lines . project manager : so what 's your , uh , the comments or uh s marketing : simple design . it 's what consumers want . it 's almost like , houston , we have a product here . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : problem is obviously gon na be cost . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : okay , i also have a f very simple presentation , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : because for the marketing point you have to see what the consumers want . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i also have uh copied a different type of remote . if you can find me , where i 'm at . there should only be one in here . trend watch . industrial designer : sure . marketing : it 's being modified . user interface : marketing : they 're stealing our product . we 've been giving simple questionnaires in different areas because th obviously we have to see what the com consumers are looking for today , 'cause uh trends change very very quickly . in six months maybe this idea is already gone out the window , so it 's gon na be a question how fast we can act . uh they already erased the rest of mine , huh . user interface : no , no . industrial designer : f go to findings . project manager : marketing : no no , no no . 'cause i had another comment there . uh the market trend . this is what we know from the last uh from the questionnaires from the the all the p surveys we 've done , fancy and feel-good , that 's what we 've been looking for , something that feels good in the hand , that 's easy to use . looking for next generation of innovation , because all the remotes out there now , they 're all very similar , they all do the same thing , project manager : industrial designer : marketing : we have to have something completely different . okay ? easy to use , has always has become has become another major interest that uh , with the whiteboard we can see that it 's a remote that 's easy to use . and i think this is another thing that 's interesting is the consumers actually willing to pay the price for exciting tel technology . so even if we have a product that may be more expensive , if it comes out right , if they look it looks and feels good and has technology . the second two , you can see the last one is a very easy simple design . the second one , there is about uh forty-five thousand different buttons on it , which makes it fairly hard to read , uh very hard to use . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : the first one , i see that they put in a display . now there 's something else uh with the little flip-up , now we 're adding all kinds of things in , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : but with the little flip-up , if you have a little display on the flip-up that when you close it everything is locked . user interface : yeah . marketing : maybe the display also makes it easier to use , because sometimes when you 're looking for buttons , maybe if you see a display user interface : industrial designer : context-sensitive instructions , depending on what the tel what mode the tv or the d_v_d_ or something else is in . user interface : right . marketing : okay because i 've seen mostly the standard ones , user interface : especially you might need something like that for training the speech recognition and marketing : yeah . now you have it now you have one with the very simple also . the idea is simple , but with a display , so you can see what you 're doing . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so maybe if we can incorporate the easiness of use , trendy , fancy , feels good , uh with a display , wood , designer wood , designer colours user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : industrial designer : you know , maybe what you could do is when somebody orders the device id you could send them like um a uh uh b some sort of a foam rubber um ball , marketing : , we might 've user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : and then they would squeeze it , and it would take the shape of their hand . user interface : yeah , so it 's really molded to to your specific industrial designer : to t an and then you would know like um what the geometry of their hands would be and uh marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : marketing : how hard they squeeze ? user interface : industrial designer : yes you 'd know what kind of wood to get . marketing : resistance resistance , right . user interface : but th for that you 'd also have to do sort of an average across families and things like that if unless everyone has their own personal remote . industrial designer : that 's right , that 's right , you would n't wan na go too far down that . oh that that actually would uh increase the um the revenues we could expect , yeah . user interface : the sales , yeah . project manager : the yeah . i hope so . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : no , but incorporating the three uh obviously it 'd be something totally new on the market , totally different user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : and from user interface : well , already the customisability is a really good sort of new gimmick . marketing : although , what it was it uh it was uh nokia that came out with this changeable colours . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : right , you take it apart , and put on another face , take it off and put on another face user interface : yeah . industrial designer : right , mm . user interface : and that took off , yeah , yeah . marketing : and then they sold millions , millions . so . so say with the f with the findings , with the research , easy to use something totally new . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : we have to come up with something totally new that is not on the market . industrial designer : we 'd also have to wor um consider that uh who we were gon na get to make these custom cases in terms of manufacturing processes , we might wan na um learn about um labour laws . project manager : industrial designer : you know in different countries and stuff wher so we can do it cheap , but you do n't wan na exploit uh labour in um third world countries . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so actually you could turn it y turn around and say that you 're uh par the reason the cost is high for the device is because um you 're paying a a working wage to the person who made the device . project manager : marketing : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah , but we can get a production in , uh , countries like , uh , india industrial designer : cost of living is low . project manager : yes , yes , countries like india or china or malaysia , so you can go a better features and better price and you can sell more . so industrial designer : good , well th that 'd be something that manufacturing would have to um explore more project manager : yeah , yeah , so yes . user interface : mm yeah . industrial designer : and to where marketing : where w where it would be manufactured is is another step . project manager : so yeah , so marketing : we 're here to design , come up with a nice product . project manager : yes uh , but uh that that we can that we can talk about the production later , okay , depends on the the quantity , okay . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so we do n't need to have our own uh fabric factory or something , industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so we can have a tie-up with who the do the fabric , okay , for the different uh electronics items , then we can have a business tie-up and to get to cut the cost , okay , to sell more . so , but uh le let 's decide first about the components concept and uh interface concept , okay , if is acceptable for both of you , what uh ed was talking . and your design whether you want with the display or without display or just a simple , so user interface : mm-hmm . i think it depends , i mean i think it 's a good idea , but we need to really think about how useful it 's gon na be because theoretically with the tv you already have a big display right in front of you . project manager : yeah . user interface : so , if we 're trying to keep costs down , then maybe sacrificing the display is a way to go . i mean it depends on how much putting a display costs and what it would be used for very specifically what it would be used for , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : 'cause if it 's only used for one little thing , then putting in a big display case or a big display that 's probably expensive just to do the training on the chip for the speech recognition or whatever , may not be the most cost-efficient way to go , project manager : user interface : but that 's just sort of speculation , i mean . industrial designer : what do you think ed ? do you he liked the display in one of the concepts that you showed , um , do you know how much it costs , um , to to add a little display like this uh ? marketing : no . no industrial designer : do you wan na take an action item to go find out ? marketing : no p spec it 's 'cause we have to find out cost on it . industrial designer : okay . sorry about that . marketing : um , no that 's no problem . i 'm here for the pushing it after it 's made . i will market it . industrial designer : marketing : once we get a price on it then we can market it . industrial designer : so the the advanced chip on print is what um what we 've we 've deci we 've determined marketing : industrial designer : and the uh engineering industrial design is the recommendation , and um i think we 've kinda come to some agreement regarding um this concept of a wooden case . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : a customisable and marketing : nice beautiful mahogany red wooden case . user interface : what about the buttons , would would the buttons be wood too , or industrial designer : uh i do n't think so , no , project manager : i do n't think so . industrial designer : i think they could be rubber like they are now , project manager : yes . yes . industrial designer : so you have that tactile experience of project manager : do n't looks nice uh . yeah , so uh what we 'll do is , uh , we will stick with the the simple design for time being until uh th ed find outs about the how much it 's cost to the extra , in case we go for the display . okay . so user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe what you can do is uh , both of you , you can come up with the the prototype , okay , the model . user interface : okay . project manager : okay ? user interface : sure . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : so um are we done with this meeting ? project manager : yeah , i hope , if is it okay if uh they will come up with the prototype design , okay . then they can show you how it looks like , and then we can uh submit to the i will submit to the management . okay ? then meantime you can come up with the price , how much it 's cost as extra for uh the display . industrial designer : project manager : an and the marketing strategy , that 's very important , okay . industrial designer : and a marketing strategy . marketing : and marketing strategy , thank you . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : yes . how much you can marketing : fired . project manager : how mu how much how much you can sell extra . user interface : project manager : of course you 'll make money too , industrial designer : project manager : so it it 's not only pay-out , you make money too , your commission . user interface : marketing : user interface : marketing : project manager : okay , so , any questions ? so , by next meeting , so , please come up with the the prototype , okay , then uh , then we can proceed from there . user interface : okay . project manager : it 's okay ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so thanks for all your uh efforts and coming for the meeting again , and see you soon then . okay ? user interface : okay . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the component design of the remote control ? </s> project manager : uh welcome back after lunch , i hope uh you had a good lunch together . for uh this meeting the main agenda okay uh to discuss about the conceptual design meeting . okay and the agenda will be the opening and uh that 's uh the product manager or secretary that 's me and uh the presentations from the christine and uh agnes and from mister ed . and finally in this meeting we have to decide marketing : project manager : and we are to take a decision on the remote control concept and uh the functional design so we have forty minutes , i think it 's uh little bit uh low , but i i hope we can finish it up so i 'll handle to the the functional team , to the christine , okay , to discuss about uh the components concept . industrial designer : okay . so uh , if you could open the powerpoint presentation . marketing : industrial designer : i 'm number two . project manager : you 're number two . 'kay industrial designer : components design , there we go . marketing : industrial designer : so uh can we put it in slide show mode ? yeah . project manager : the next one . industrial designer : right here , is that little that one , yes please . marketing : industrial designer : thank you . project manager : industrial designer : i 'll take the mouse . so uh project manager : industrial designer : we were looking he specifically at the components uh the following components , uh the case , the power supply , uh the means of communications with the television set . in instance we had talked about using some sort of speech recognition , project manager : industrial designer : you have to have microphone well no you do n't actually i have n't have to have microphone in the device , but um maybe you do have it a a way marketing : industrial designer : it has to it has to hear the speaker user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and um , so it could be in the television set , could be in the device , but somewhere you have to put the microphone , um and a w a way of making beeps or sounds so you can find it when it 's gets lost . um so the other w thing that we so . our method for going about this is we 've looked at uh the histo hi historical record , what 's worked , what has n't and then we also um we wanted to evaluate some new materials marketing : industrial designer : and we contacted manufacturing for their input because , course , we m might come up and choose the material that then manufacturing did n't have the technologies or capabilities to offer us , so uh this is the approach that we took during our um our research . marketing : industrial designer : so um for the case , um we told we were making a specifica specific assumption that it would be curved in design . marketing : industrial designer : course , you know , i wanted it to be expandable and shrinkable , but um that uh does n't seem to b be one of the choic non-option we can uh we can really seriously explore , user interface : industrial designer : so then we were thinking about um rubber , but um unfortunately that 's been eliminated because of the heat uh factor user interface : industrial designer : and th um there might be some problems with the m uh how it 's uh goes with the board . uh and uh then th plastic also has this problem of melting and it 's brittle it gets brittle after a while , user interface : industrial designer : so um we still had titanium and and wood available , but um unfortunately uh uh titanium 's also been eliminated uh , user interface : industrial designer : the m people in manufacturing said that you could n't make d curved cases out of titanium , although how apple did it with th powerbook i 'm not su quite sure but uh nevertheless um they 've eliminated all of our options except wood . user interface : at least it 's environmentally friendly . industrial designer : so , this is our finding . marketing : industrial designer : and a as she said , it 's an environmentally friendly uh material , so we 're we 're currently uh proposing , marketing : industrial designer : uh we 'll get to all my personal preferences in just a second . marketing : industrial designer : so then there 's this other matter of the chips and um well we could use a simple design on the board , user interface : project manager : industrial designer : uh these simple chips , but that 's only works for the bu you do n't get very much um intelligence with this simple one . and um then there was the regular which i regret that i 've forgotten exactly why i 'm eliminating that one . uh the other option was this advanced chip on print , and uh we liked th we we found that it it includes this infrared sender , marketing : industrial designer : which w 'member the beam was that was an important component of finding the right chip . marketing : industrial designer : and uh manufacturing has told us that they 've um uh recently developed a uh a sensor and a speaker that would uh be integrated into this advanced chip on print , so uh we we uh now jumping right to our personal preferences um i i 'd really think we should , you know , use some of uh some really exotic woods , like um , user interface : industrial designer : you know uh , well you guys come from tropical countries so you can kinda think of some trees and some nice woods . i think that people will might really want to design their own cases , you see , they could do sort of a this um three-dimensional design on the internet , and then they could submit their orders , kinda like you submit a custom car order , you know , and you can choose the colour and the size of the wheels and the colours of the leather and things like that , and then i uh think we should go with the solar cells as well as the um microphone and speaker on the advanced chip . so this is the findings of our research marketing : industrial designer : and my recommendations um for the new remote control w um would be to have um have it be made out of wood . do you have any problems with that ? project manager : can you go back uh one slide ? industrial designer : i 'm not sure , how do i oh , i know , let 's see . user interface : thank you . yeah . industrial designer : let 's go back up here . project manager : yes , uh question , uh , what 's mean exactly , advanced chip on print ? what 's the meaning of that ? industrial designer : i think it 's um um a multiple uh chip design um and it 's uh maybe printed on to the circuit board . user interface : project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : industrial designer : uh i could find out more about that uh before the next fi next meeting . project manager : yeah , is it means it 's on the yeah is it on a micro-proc micro-processor based or uh industrial designer : i do n't know , but i 'll find out more at our next meeting . project manager : okay , tha that would be great , so if you find out from the technology background , okay , so that would be good . marketing : industrial designer : sounds good . user interface : why was the plastic eliminated as a possible material ? industrial designer : because um it gets brittle , cracks user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um we want we expect these um uh these remote controls to be around for several hundred years . so . good ex good expression . user interface : whic which marketing : good expression . well after us . user interface : industrial designer : i do n't know , speak for yourself , i 'm planning to be around for a while . user interface : although i think marketing : user interface : i think with wood though you 'd run into the same types of problems , would n't you , i mean it chips , it if you drop it , industrial designer : marketing : user interface : uh it 's i 'm not su industrial designer : project manager : so so you 're not convinced about the the wood , yes . user interface : industrial designer : you 're what ? marketing : actually , i 'm ready to sell it . user interface : i think if you re if you use really good quality wood , then it might work , marketing : i 'm ready to sell it . industrial designer : you think ? and you could you could sell oils with it , to take care of it . user interface : but you ca n't just use marketing : no y no no no , the o the only w the only wood you can use are the ones that are hard , extremely hard wood , user interface : yeah , exactly , yeah . marketing : but there are some very pretty woods out there . industrial designer : well i 'm glad you user interface : marketing : that 's actually very innovative idea . industrial designer : okay , good . user interface : industrial designer : sorr having a hard time keeping wi control over my face . marketing : industrial designer : marketing : well , it 's actually a very innovative n different idea that uh you know you can choose your colour of wood , your type of wood . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : the stain . marketing : i mean it 's each person is gon na have their own personalised , individualised speech recognition remote control in wood , that 's not on the market . user interface : project manager : yeah , so it it 's looks good the the design the functional design uh , what about yo you ? marketing : user interface : um , in terms of comments on this or in terms of my own project manager : yes , in t yes , in term in terms of comments first marketing : in turns of wow . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : she works in the cubicle next to me so she 's uh she was already a little bit prepared for this . user interface : y yeah . marketing : industrial designer : luckily ed was not . user interface : marketing : wood ? user interface : i think we can get the quality materials then it should n't influence the design principles too much , which you 'll see with my presentation . marketing : user interface : one thing we 'd have to check though is what the users whether how quickly the novelty wears off of having uh industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah , you would n't wan na have to have splinters in your hand while you 're using your user interface : yeah , for example . so , have to see how kid-friendly it is and and all that , marketing : industrial designer : it 's really good if your dog gets ahold of it , they can use it for teething . user interface : but marketing : user interface : marketing : they do that anyway with the rubber and plastic , industrial designer : yeah , they do it with other materials as well , yeah . marketing : so , and chew 'em up . and chew 'em up . project manager : okay then , uh , let 's move to agnes . so we can have a tie-up with who the do the fabric , okay , for the different uh electronics items , then we can have a business tie-up and to get to cut the cost , okay , to sell more . so , but uh le let 's decide first about the components concept and uh interface concept , okay , if is acceptable for both of you , what uh ed was talking . and your design whether you want with the display or without display or just a simple , so user interface : mm-hmm . i think it depends , i mean i think it 's a good idea , but we need to really think about how useful it 's gon na be because theoretically with the tv you already have a big display right in front of you . project manager : yeah . user interface : so , if we 're trying to keep costs down , then maybe sacrificing the display is a way to go . i mean it depends on how much putting a display costs and what it would be used for very specifically what it would be used for , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : 'cause if it 's only used for one little thing , then putting in a big display case or a big display that 's probably expensive just to do the training on the chip for the speech recognition or whatever , may not be the most cost-efficient way to go , project manager : user interface : but that 's just sort of speculation , i mean . industrial designer : what do you think ed ? do you he liked the display in one of the concepts that you showed , um , do you know how much it costs , um , to to add a little display like this uh ? marketing : no . no industrial designer : do you wan na take an action item to go find out ? marketing : no p spec it 's 'cause we have to find out cost on it . industrial designer : okay . sorry about that . marketing : um , no that 's no problem . i 'm here for the pushing it after it 's made . i will market it . industrial designer : marketing : once we get a price on it then we can market it . industrial designer : so the the advanced chip on print is what um what we 've we 've deci we 've determined marketing : industrial designer : and the uh engineering industrial design is the recommendation , and um i think we 've kinda come to some agreement regarding um this concept of a wooden case . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : a customisable and marketing : nice beautiful mahogany red wooden case . user interface : what about the buttons , would would the buttons be wood too , or industrial designer : uh i do n't think so , no , project manager : i do n't think so . industrial designer : i think they could be rubber like they are now , project manager : yes . yes . </s>
<s> what did the group think of using wood as manufacture material in the components design of the product ? </s> industrial designer : and um , so it could be in the television set , could be in the device , but somewhere you have to put the microphone , um and a w a way of making beeps or sounds so you can find it when it 's gets lost . um so the other w thing that we so . our method for going about this is we 've looked at uh the histo hi historical record , what 's worked , what has n't and then we also um we wanted to evaluate some new materials marketing : industrial designer : and we contacted manufacturing for their input because , course , we m might come up and choose the material that then manufacturing did n't have the technologies or capabilities to offer us , so uh this is the approach that we took during our um our research . marketing : industrial designer : so um for the case , um we told we were making a specifica specific assumption that it would be curved in design . marketing : industrial designer : course , you know , i wanted it to be expandable and shrinkable , but um that uh does n't seem to b be one of the choic non-option we can uh we can really seriously explore , user interface : industrial designer : so then we were thinking about um rubber , but um unfortunately that 's been eliminated because of the heat uh factor user interface : industrial designer : and th um there might be some problems with the m uh how it 's uh goes with the board . uh and uh then th plastic also has this problem of melting and it 's brittle it gets brittle after a while , user interface : industrial designer : so um we still had titanium and and wood available , but um unfortunately uh uh titanium 's also been eliminated uh , user interface : industrial designer : the m people in manufacturing said that you could n't make d curved cases out of titanium , although how apple did it with th powerbook i 'm not su quite sure but uh nevertheless um they 've eliminated all of our options except wood . user interface : at least it 's environmentally friendly . industrial designer : so , this is our finding . marketing : industrial designer : and a as she said , it 's an environmentally friendly uh material , so we 're we 're currently uh proposing , marketing : industrial designer : uh we 'll get to all my personal preferences in just a second . marketing : industrial designer : so then there 's this other matter of the chips and um well we could use a simple design on the board , user interface : project manager : industrial designer : uh these simple chips , but that 's only works for the bu you do n't get very much um intelligence with this simple one . and um then there was the regular which i regret that i 've forgotten exactly why i 'm eliminating that one . uh the other option was this advanced chip on print , and uh we liked th we we found that it it includes this infrared sender , marketing : industrial designer : which w 'member the beam was that was an important component of finding the right chip . marketing : industrial designer : and uh manufacturing has told us that they 've um uh recently developed a uh a sensor and a speaker that would uh be integrated into this advanced chip on print , so uh we we uh now jumping right to our personal preferences um i i 'd really think we should , you know , use some of uh some really exotic woods , like um , user interface : industrial designer : you know uh , well you guys come from tropical countries so you can kinda think of some trees and some nice woods . i think that people will might really want to design their own cases , you see , they could do sort of a this um three-dimensional design on the internet , and then they could submit their orders , kinda like you submit a custom car order , you know , and you can choose the colour and the size of the wheels and the colours of the leather and things like that , and then i uh think we should go with the solar cells as well as the um microphone and speaker on the advanced chip . so this is the findings of our research marketing : industrial designer : and my recommendations um for the new remote control w um would be to have um have it be made out of wood . do you have any problems with that ? project manager : can you go back uh one slide ? industrial designer : i 'm not sure , how do i oh , i know , let 's see . user interface : thank you . yeah . industrial designer : let 's go back up here . project manager : yes , uh question , uh , what 's mean exactly , advanced chip on print ? what 's the meaning of that ? industrial designer : i think it 's um um a multiple uh chip design um and it 's uh maybe printed on to the circuit board . user interface : project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : industrial designer : uh i could find out more about that uh before the next fi next meeting . project manager : yeah , is it means it 's on the yeah is it on a micro-proc micro-processor based or uh industrial designer : i do n't know , but i 'll find out more at our next meeting . project manager : okay , tha that would be great , so if you find out from the technology background , okay , so that would be good . marketing : industrial designer : sounds good . user interface : why was the plastic eliminated as a possible material ? industrial designer : because um it gets brittle , cracks user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um we want we expect these um uh these remote controls to be around for several hundred years . so . good ex good expression . user interface : whic which marketing : good expression . well after us . user interface : industrial designer : i do n't know , speak for yourself , i 'm planning to be around for a while . user interface : although i think marketing : user interface : i think with wood though you 'd run into the same types of problems , would n't you , i mean it chips , it if you drop it , industrial designer : marketing : user interface : uh it 's i 'm not su industrial designer : project manager : so so you 're not convinced about the the wood , yes . user interface : industrial designer : you 're what ? marketing : actually , i 'm ready to sell it . user interface : i think if you re if you use really good quality wood , then it might work , marketing : i 'm ready to sell it . industrial designer : you think ? and you could you could sell oils with it , to take care of it . user interface : but you ca n't just use marketing : no y no no no , the o the only w the only wood you can use are the ones that are hard , extremely hard wood , user interface : yeah , exactly , yeah . marketing : but there are some very pretty woods out there . industrial designer : well i 'm glad you user interface : marketing : that 's actually very innovative idea . industrial designer : okay , good . user interface : industrial designer : sorr having a hard time keeping wi control over my face . marketing : industrial designer : marketing : well , it 's actually a very innovative n different idea that uh you know you can choose your colour of wood , your type of wood . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : the stain . marketing : i mean it 's each person is gon na have their own personalised , individualised speech recognition remote control in wood , that 's not on the market . user interface : project manager : yeah , so it it 's looks good the the design the functional design uh , what about yo you ? marketing : user interface : um , in terms of comments on this or in terms of my own project manager : yes , in t yes , in term in terms of comments first marketing : in turns of wow . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : she works in the cubicle next to me so she 's uh she was already a little bit prepared for this . user interface : y yeah . marketing : industrial designer : luckily ed was not . user interface : marketing : wood ? user interface : i think we can get the quality materials then it should n't influence the design principles too much , which you 'll see with my presentation . marketing : user interface : one thing we 'd have to check though is what the users whether how quickly the novelty wears off of having uh industrial designer : mm-hmm . yeah , you would n't wan na have to have splinters in your hand while you 're using your user interface : yeah , for example . so , have to see how kid-friendly it is and and all that , marketing : industrial designer : it 's really good if your dog gets ahold of it , they can use it for teething . user interface : but marketing : user interface : marketing : they do that anyway with the rubber and plastic , industrial designer : yeah , they do it with other materials as well , yeah . marketing : so , and chew 'em up . and chew 'em up . industrial designer : and the uh engineering industrial design is the recommendation , and um i think we 've kinda come to some agreement regarding um this concept of a wooden case . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : a customisable and marketing : nice beautiful mahogany red wooden case . user interface : what about the buttons , would would the buttons be wood too , or industrial designer : uh i do n't think so , no , project manager : i do n't think so . industrial designer : i think they could be rubber like they are now , project manager : yes . yes . </s>
<s> what did the group decide to do about the display when discussing components design of the remote control ? </s> project manager : so we can have a tie-up with who the do the fabric , okay , for the different uh electronics items , then we can have a business tie-up and to get to cut the cost , okay , to sell more . so , but uh le let 's decide first about the components concept and uh interface concept , okay , if is acceptable for both of you , what uh ed was talking . and your design whether you want with the display or without display or just a simple , so user interface : mm-hmm . i think it depends , i mean i think it 's a good idea , but we need to really think about how useful it 's gon na be because theoretically with the tv you already have a big display right in front of you . project manager : yeah . user interface : so , if we 're trying to keep costs down , then maybe sacrificing the display is a way to go . i mean it depends on how much putting a display costs and what it would be used for very specifically what it would be used for , industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : 'cause if it 's only used for one little thing , then putting in a big display case or a big display that 's probably expensive just to do the training on the chip for the speech recognition or whatever , may not be the most cost-efficient way to go , project manager : user interface : but that 's just sort of speculation , i mean . industrial designer : what do you think ed ? do you he liked the display in one of the concepts that you showed , um , do you know how much it costs , um , to to add a little display like this uh ? marketing : no . no industrial designer : do you wan na take an action item to go find out ? marketing : no p spec it 's 'cause we have to find out cost on it . industrial designer : okay . sorry about that . marketing : um , no that 's no problem . i 'm here for the pushing it after it 's made . i will market it . industrial designer : </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the general functionalities of the new product . </s> user interface : i think so , yeah . yeah , that 's the one . so , it 's a very short presentation , 'cause i 'm actually gon na draw you the layout on the board so if you want to just go straight to the second slide , um , which basically shows , sort of marketing : user interface : i took the ideas that we were talking about last time um and tried to put that into the remote control so the things that y you can actually see on it are the on off switch , volume and channel control , the menu access button , ergonomic shape , which i completely agree with christine 's idea to have it sort of molded , so it 's slightly more ergonomic and comfortable to hold than the r standard very straight remote controls . and actually the other thing with the wood if we take your customising idea , is that people can actually do sort of quasi-measurements on their hand size , so if someone has larger hands , you have a wider remote control . industrial designer : right , my hand is uh different size than yours for example . user interface : so , that 's actually a really good idea for customi customisability . um , one thing i thought might be kind of interesting is to put a flip screen on it , just like you have on flip phones , marketing : user interface : so that you do n't have this case where someone sits on the remote control or accidentally puts their hand on it , especially if you have little kids around , they 're not pressing the buttons while you 're trying to watch a tv show and accidentally change the channel or turn it off . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and also um you had issues with the batteries running out , marketing : user interface : so i thought maybe we could put a little battery life-light on it that kind of goes dimmer and dimmer and dimmer as your battery is starts to die . and in terms of invisible features , audio and um tactile feedback on button presses and , like you said , speech recognition . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so , in terms of what this thing would actually look like marketing : user interface : despite working in interface design , i 'm not the greatest artist in the world , so you 'll have to forgive me . you 'd have something like this with an on-off switch fairly big , sort of in the corner and by itself , so you do n't accidentally turn your tv off while you 're trying to manoeuvre other buttons . and then you have sort of one of those toggle displays for , oops , channels and volume , sort of for surfing channels and then volume , so the volume would be the up and down , 'cause volume goes up and down and then channels left to right . and then here you 'd have your sort of standard , telephonish number pad . and then on one side you would have an access to the menu on your tv project manager : user interface : and on the other side a way to turn off the voice control . so that if the user does n't want to use their voice , they can just turn it off and you do n't have the remote control accidentally changing things on you . industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . user interface : um , so again you can have a little lcd light somewhere , the flip thing and have i forgotten anything ? i do n't think so . so , as you can see , it 's a very very simple design , marketing : no . project manager : </s>
<s> what did user interface suggest about invisible features when discussing general functionalities of the remote control ? </s> user interface : so i thought maybe we could put a little battery life-light on it that kind of goes dimmer and dimmer and dimmer as your battery is starts to die . and in terms of invisible features , audio and um tactile feedback on button presses and , like you said , speech recognition . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : so , in terms of what this thing would actually look like marketing : user interface : despite working in interface design , i 'm not the greatest artist in the world , so you 'll have to forgive me . you 'd have something like this with an on-off switch fairly big , sort of in the corner and by itself , so you do n't accidentally turn your tv off while you 're trying to manoeuvre other buttons . and then you have sort of one of those toggle displays for , oops , channels and volume , sort of for surfing channels and then volume , so the volume would be the up and down , 'cause volume goes up and down and then channels left to right . and then here you 'd have your sort of standard , telephonish number pad . and then on one side you would have an access to the menu on your tv project manager : user interface : and on the other side a way to turn off the voice control . so that if the user does n't want to use their voice , they can just turn it off and you do n't have the remote control accidentally changing things on you . industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . user interface : um , so again you can have a little lcd light somewhere , the flip thing and have i forgotten anything ? i do n't think so . so , as you can see , it 's a very very simple design , marketing : no . project manager : user interface : which is one of the things i really wanted to keep , is keep it simple , not have too many buttons , not have too many functionalities thrown into it . think the design can pretty much carry over to everything , although with the wood the flip screen might have to do something slightly different . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about flip screens in terms of general functionalities of the new product ? </s> user interface : so , that 's actually a really good idea for customi customisability . um , one thing i thought might be kind of interesting is to put a flip screen on it , just like you have on flip phones , marketing : user interface : so that you do n't have this case where someone sits on the remote control or accidentally puts their hand on it , especially if you have little kids around , they 're not pressing the buttons while you 're trying to watch a tv show and accidentally change the channel or turn it off . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : which is one of the things i really wanted to keep , is keep it simple , not have too many buttons , not have too many functionalities thrown into it . think the design can pretty much carry over to everything , although with the wood the flip screen might have to do something slightly different . project manager : industrial designer : a hinge . be like a copper hinge or you know . project manager : user interface : yeah . but you also have to d start watching out for the weight , 'cause depending on how much the the flip screen will add to the weight of the remote control , you do n't want it to start getting too heavy . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm . user interface : but that 's the general layout with the general functionalities , if we come up with something else . as you can see , there 's still lots of space on the actual remote control and if you do it customisably , you can make this thing fairly small or fairly o large , depending on personal preferences . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay , almost there . project manager : okay . we 'll sta i 'll use the powerpoint , i guess . how was that , was that fun ? user interface : mm . very fun . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . project manager : okay . uh oh i 've forgotten to mail you the minutes , but i will do . industrial designer : okay . project manager : upsidaisy . um um we marketing : e excuse me i forgot my project manager : yeah . marketing : copy . project manager : alright , okay , yeah . industrial designer : project manager : he 's gon na get his pen . user interface : oh right . okay . project manager : um will you guys first with your prototype um before we get to the good news ? industrial designer : yeah , there 's good news ? project manager : uh we have budget problems . industrial designer : oh . cutbacks . project manager : i 'm afraid you 're all sacked . oops . industrial designer : project manager : i do n't even have this on . okay , have you got a presentation to make ? industrial designer : okay . marketing : no , not mine yet . project manager : no . okay so it 's just your your show . industrial designer : um maybe we should bring so that the camera can see . yeah . project manager : user interface : okay . sure . industrial designer : okay . project manager : user interface : we made three for you . project manager : three ? oh . user interface : um one 's based on the banana , one 's based on the tomato project manager : tomato ? what tomato ? user interface : and the other one is st marketing : industrial designer : project manager : i do n't recall a tomato . user interface : look . oh yeah , well yeah , we had v some red left over . project manager : ah i see , okay . user interface : so . okay , so this is the um non to non uh no buttons one , or as mm few buttons as possible , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mainly speak recognition . the yellow there is the um project manager : logo . user interface : the slogan , yeah , project manager : okay , brilliant . user interface : that we need to incorporate , it 's very simple . if you do need buttons , you can flip it over , and there 's some there , project manager : okay . user interface : um but mainly it 's speech recognition . project manager : okay , so the buttons would be like , you know individual users , or user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah and yeah they might project things onto the screen which you can do on there . project manager : alright , okay . user interface : mm i 'm not sure about that . um and this one is the one w more like the one w that we looked at earlier . project manager : right . user interface : yeah , you guys can have a look at that if you want . project manager : that 's groovy . marketing : yeah . uh can i have project manager : well i like the feel of it , i like the feel of it . user interface : yeah , sure . um that one is marketing : oh sorry s user interface : oh no , it 's delicate . project manager : at oh dear . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : that 's that 's already got its stand that one . that 's it stand . project manager : alright , okay . user interface : it does also lie flat , but that 's the that yellow stand there represents the the charging stand . project manager : okay , brilliant mm . user interface : um the black on the back is the slogan . project manager : okay , nice and obvious there , user interface : uh yeah , that marketing : user interface : well , we did think of that . project manager : if it 's standing up , i guess , yeah . user interface : yeah , if it 's standing up it 's it 's on there , but also we 're gon na have the company name on the front , which is the little black kind of line in the middle . project manager : oh right , okay , brilliant . like that from its centre . user interface : so um and that 's the um transmit the l_e_d_ thing . these are the s two scroll ones which we thought could be channel up and down and volume up and down . we n were were n't sure about putting them there , because um i it 's it kind of could get bashed . project manager : where you 're , yeah , uh were you 're holding it kind of user interface : yeah . well , if you hold it , you can you all can hold it , is it does actually feel quite ergonomic , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : if you 've got small hands . project manager : yeah . marketing : project manager : okay . user interface : um , obviously i do n't think that 's real sized . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : it would have to be a bit bigger . project manager : yeah , scale model , yeah . user interface : okay . um that 's a speaker at the top , so you can speak into it like a little walkie-talkie as well for speak recognition . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : um and um then the buttons . yeah kind of self-explanatory , just buttons whenever you need them . tried to keep it simple . oh that 's the charging base prongs at the bottom . project manager : alright , excellent . user interface : we used those . and um then the big red button in the middle is the on and off one . project manager : okay . user interface : it 's not in the traditional place , but um it 's quite an obvious place . project manager : it 's out of the way as well , i suppose , so . excellent . user interface : so there we go and and um we have the banana-based one too . industrial designer : oh yeah , yeah . project manager : yep . industrial designer : this one is uh , i suppose for the younger audiences . user interface : industrial designer : a a more friendly type of project manager : okay , so so barney the banana . industrial designer : right , right . it 's to uh induce more television watching i suppose or project manager : ah excellent , just what we need . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : say it for the camera . project manager : lo sort of loch ness banana . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : right , right . project manager : cool yeah . well , nice to have uh options at least . industrial designer : yep . user interface : yeah . project manager : 'kay and user interface : so are there any um improvements or issues or industrial designer : it wo n't stand . project manager : oh there are issues , oh there are issues . industrial designer : just let it lie down , it wont stand . user interface : project manager : um main problem that we have unfortunately being finance . industrial designer : project manager : uh , let 's just enter in the um evaluation criteria . industrial designer : project manager : um unfortunately the unit we are currently going to produce minus the extra scroll buttons , uh it 's gon na cost us fourteen point six euros . so we have to industrial designer : what 's on the uh on the left ? project manager : rea sorry , i 've accidentally highlighted somehow um . there we go . industrial designer : okay . project manager : oh god , why is it doing that ? there we go . so basically , um in order to save our two euros um i was thinking that we could have essentially the same shape , but just have it flattened . user interface : mm-hmm . more like a traditional remote control . project manager : yeah , i mean it 's already got a kind of cool shape , so but it would n't have to be curved sort of in and out . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : and by doing so oh no , hold on . does n't save us quite as much . i do n't know what 's going on with this again . industrial designer : w why is the uh double curved two of them ? project manager : oh , good point . marketing : and double curve on both sides ? curve . yeah , this is double-curve , project manager : that 's sort of curve in and out . marketing : this is double-curve . it this one is single curve . 'cause this is single curve , this is curved on both sides . so double-curve . project manager : no , i think it means double curved as in um user interface : like an s_ shape . project manager : like uh a single curve on that bottom half , and the double curved would be if it was that similar curve upward . user interface : okay . project manager : okay , i might be wrong though . marketing : like this , one curve on this side , one curve on that side . project manager : i do n't think that counts as a curve , i think that 's just a shape . marketing : hmm . hmm . industrial designer : project manager : a curvature is like the this case . user interface : okay . marketing : maybe . industrial designer : 'cause that 's the uh the biggest expense there , right . user interface : okay . industrial designer : got two of them project manager : yeah , and why why i 've got it two , i do n't know , i ca n't seem to select any more however . industrial designer : okay . well we can work around that um project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : right . no . industrial designer : cut things out . but you think it should be one . project manager : it 's meant to be one , yeah , i do n't know why i put two in there , industrial designer : okay . project manager : but um hold on till i find it , i think this shift button might be stuck again . no maybe the shift button 's stuck in . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um okay , so that would take away three , which would give us marketing : should industrial designer : project manager : oh that 's fine . industrial designer : yeah , so we 're project manager : eleven uh eleven euros sixty . user interface : cool . cool . project manager : um user interface : so we could even add something . project manager : we cou oh not quite , have the scroll-wheel , unfortunately . industrial designer : we should fire the accountants . project manager : what ? industrial designer : fire the accountants . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : ah yeah , we could add things . project manager : industrial designer : maybe if you click back in that bottom right cell , where you 're starting from , and then use the arrow keys . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : does that work ? project manager : yeah , i know , that just extends it as well . industrial designer : no mm . marketing : uh you can do one thing . project manager : i do n't know . marketing : you just select one box outsi yeah , this box . then move it with the help of this okay . project manager : it one of the buttons is sticking , i do n't know . marketing : just uh just uh okay , just a minute . okay . no input , like this . shift . no it 's not . project manager : no , it 's 'cause the uh the shift button 's stuck , or something . marketing : yeah , it 's not working . industrial designer : is it the other shift button maybe ? marketing : should we ask meli project manager : marketing : should we ask our technical expert melissa ? project manager : no that 's fine . um we 've worked out what it would be anyway . industrial designer : did you try both shift buttons ? it could be the other side . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : cancel . piss off . industrial designer : that 's too bad . project manager : oh well , never mind . um . right , so that 's finances and i dunno what we what could we reckon we could add ? um user interface : well maybe we could add something , but maybe if project manager : well i suppose that 's our that 's that 's our design that we 've got . so user interface : what do you th we 're trying to save money , so . yeah , if we 're happy with the design there 's no point in spending money , if we do n't have to . project manager : yeah . user interface : but if there is anything you think we 've missed out there , then , you know , feel free to add it . maybe i mean obviously it would be bigger so there might be more space for the the slogan on the front , project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : because it 's not in an ideal place right now . project manager : well that 's that 's uh okay , so project evaluation . we have under twelve euros fifty . project process , how do we think that went ? are we happy ? industrial designer : yeah i think we have a a winning product . project manager : okay . evaluation . oh we 've been writing this up for m months . user interface : i think it went quite smoothly . project manager : uh room for creativity , were we happy with that ? user interface : w i think we were very creative . industrial designer : project manager : no , i mea i think it means sort of individually . user interface : oh right , okay . project manager : yes , no , maybe ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . groovy . so uh we 're just gon na . uh yeah , okay . teamwork ? leadership , sorry . industrial designer : great leadership . user interface : excellent leadership . marketing : project manager : thank you very much . you 're all get you 're all getting a raise . uh teamwork . i thought went well . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , everyone got enough input , i think . project manager : uh and well means , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , we project manager : the technical stuff was brilliant . marketing : project manager : let 's buy more . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh right . um industrial designer : these pens are are neat though . project manager : i do n't know what , new ideas found , means , to be honest . marketing : yeah , these are new ideas , like glow-in-the-dark or something like that . we discussed all the new ideas , but of course we could n't reach any proper goals , we could n't use these , but we h we are using these scroll buttons like this . these are new ideas we and new shapes , everything project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : . at le project manager : mm 'kay . groovy . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so just general thumbs up for all of us then . industrial designer : project manager : that kind of unfortunately is too quick . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . user interface : well um . industrial designer : project manager : uh . i suppose yeah . um . industrial designer : uh so let 's talk about our bonuses and the raises we 're getting for this , right . project manager : that 's it , um i think another couple of days holiday pay might be well in order for all of you . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : right , right . project manager : uh let 's see if i can get this bloody thing to work . industrial designer : uh maybe we should start cleaning up the clay . project manager : whoops . user interface : yeah , maybe . industrial designer : marketing : so project manager : does it go back in , does it ? reusable . industrial designer : something we should get . project manager : i do n't know what this is but it 's really really annoying . marketing : so uh brian , have you have you finished ? project manager : uh-huh . marketing : uh mine needs also this . project manager : um i have , yes . marketing : at last mine is also the presentation . project manager : huh ? oh right , okay , you 've got more , okay . marketing : yeah , yeah . user interface : oh , you got a presentation , project manager : sorry uh . user interface : sorry . project manager : it did n't bother to tell me that on this industrial designer : marketing : project manager : thing . is it ? okay . marketing : uh is the project evaluated , that is mine . project manager : does n't tell me . oh you 're doing that . marketing : yeah . project manager : we evaluated ourselves , we thought we were great . marketing : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : mm , love to eat that now . industrial designer : anybody user interface : kind of a green banana now . industrial designer : clay covered banana . user interface : it 's this as well , sorry , we forgot to mention it 'll be made out of kind of a rubbery latex , new material that we 've got . project manager : o okay , hold on . user interface : i 've got . industrial designer : blue . project manager : i wonder w which cell do i want . industrial designer : it 's fun to touch . user interface : yeah . marketing : so . yeah . project manager : okay , i did n't realise you had that bit . marketing : so . user interface : oh could you pass the tomato please . project manager : user interface : sorry . thank you . marketing : so now is the final evaluation , final evaluation of the uh uh of our product . how we are going to user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : means uh at what standard what standard whether it meets our standards or not . how mu what rating we will give to these products . so of course this is will be a team work , w we together have to decide wha what rating we will give to this product and everything . so what methodology i will tell you on what basis we are going to discuss all this . project manager : okay . marketing : we will give the rating to this product based on the user requirements , whether it meets the user requirements or not , this product . then trends , whether it is as fashion trends or not ? means because we have already stated that people do prefer fashionable things nowadays . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so this is also an important factor for our evaluation also . then marketing strategy of the company . as we have already discussed that our company is quite in the market , not only in terms of providing quality products , not only in pro providing latest technologies , but also in terms of providing environmental s user interface : sorry . sorry , marketing : yeah . user interface : carry on . marketing : so but also in terms of providing environmental safe products , uh yeah like uh keeping uh keeping in mind all the safety issues . so now comes the criteria rating with seven point scale . i 'm having this scale this scale , project manager : okay . marketing : so we have to do it on a board . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : the user requirem i think . project manager : alright , okay . user interface : okay . project manager : the board working again , is it ? industrial designer : do we have the uh the marker for the board ? project manager : uh . industrial designer : there it is . marketing : thank you . project manager : user interface : marketing : so these are the three crite criterias for our evaluation of our product . first of all uh comes user requirement . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so we will see whether this product meets all user requirements or not . i i will first i would like to have your views , what do you think whether it meets all user requirements or not ? user interface : um i think yeah , it did . it had all the basic buttons that they needed as well as the uh new technology that people said they wanted . project manager : yeah . user interface : um so . project manager : when the user requirement is essentially just to operate the tv , user interface : does it work ? project manager : so yeah , user interface : yeah . so . marketing : so what do you think you will personally give . project manager : of course we have n't actually got a working model yet . user interface : i would say seven . marketing : seven . uh . user interface : seven is good , yeah , is n't it ? i ca n't true or false ? no sorry tr one is true . marketing : project manager : one , yeah . marketing : uh one is means highest ranking , okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : but i think highest ranking is seven , or one ? project manager : no it 's it 's like true is one end , and false is the oth industrial designer : no that 's false . marketing : okay , right right . so it 's one for from your point of view . user interface : okay , so one . marketing : and what do you say our industrial expert ? industrial designer : uh . it 's hard to know . i i give it a two . marketing : uh d you can you can tell on on the like project manager : marketing : i think she has given her views on the basis of design , because she was our i interface expert . industrial designer : okay . marketing : but you can give your views based on technology , whether the technology meets the requirements of the customers or not ? industrial designer : um yeah , i think i it might even exceed it um . but i guess there is a kind of a shortage of buttons . project manager : industrial designer : um i 'm gon na give it a two . marketing : and what about uh you , brian ? project manager : oh , i 'll go for a one . marketing : you will go for one . project manager : basic requirements but of the pro of the project . marketing : okay . uh for me personally it is everything fine , it may be having good design , it may be uh meeting all the requirements of the customers like technology-wise , price-wise , but there is one thing which limits the customers , like we are having only two , three designs , like we are having one banana design and the other one is orange , industrial designer : project manager : yeah th user interface : mm yellow . marketing : uh yeah , lower end . and the third one is what you ge uh that is not a f fruit look . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : but if a person does n't like banana , or orange , you are limiting him . user interface : uh-huh . project manager : come on that was the tha marketing : no , do n't buy our product , because we are l we like this only . project manager : 'kay . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : so we are showing our preference for particular fruits , user interface : okay . industrial designer : project manager : being fruitist . marketing : two or three kinds rather , and yeah . so . user interface : is that no is that not trends ? marketing : uh no , uh personally as a marketing expert i do n't believe that , project manager : marketing : because whatever companies they launch their products in the shape of fruits , they give a range of products , a range of shapes , like if we see , look at the smallest thing , toffee chocolates , they give a variety of different things . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : some children like to buy banana shape , some apple shape , some even pineapple shape , some orange shape . industrial designer : marketing : so you can what shape a person will like . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so in this case giving only one or two choices we are lim limiting our customers . and by limiting them , we are limiting our sales , limiting our profit also . user interface : uh-huh . but in electronics , i think , it 's not q always quite so um you do n't always have so many choices as with chocolates . project manager : user interface : i think , you know , if you 're going to buy a tv maybe a company 'll have that you 're going to choose from , a company 'll have two or three choices , but they 're different designs . we were coming up with one product . marketing : uh maybe . okay but i will i will personally wo n't give it beyond three . project manager : user interface : no , i mean uh obviously your opinion , industrial designer : user interface : i 'm just trying to okay . marketing : so we can project manager : he 's a tough cookie . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , on an average we can think three , four sevenths , maybe . three or four ? project manager : marketing : uh , no sorry , industrial designer : marketing : it should be project manager : six . five or six . user interface : what are we doing ? industrial designer : what are we doing ? marketing : no sorry , sorry , sorry , sorry , we are doing a very wrong thing . user interface : adding them up ? industrial designer : we 're gon na average them ? marketing : yeah , yeah , we are taking everything , industrial designer : okay . so seven fourths . marketing : and that 's i have taken it very wrongly . yeah uh industrial designer : about one point f one point eight . marketing : three four four two six seven seven sev yeah one pe exactly . so we can say one or two . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : because it is one point eight uh two , so we will do two . industrial designer : project manager : oh i see . industrial designer : yeah round it up to two . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay , yeah . industrial designer : so trends . marketing : so where were the trends . industrial designer : can you explain what you want us to write there ? marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : how it how conforms to the current trends ? marketing : yeah , again the the fashion trends , this also like whether it it will be fashionable to have these products in the uh as a fruit shape or something . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : user interface : okay . well um going on uh the specifications that we had , that fruit and vegetables are quite popular , and that people like something that is good to look at and not many buttons , i would give it um , well , because it 's hard to make a fruit good to look at , that that looks cool , you know , project manager : user interface : so i would actually give it a three . marketing : user interface : tha three or four , i 'm not sure . marketing : okay . yeah . user interface : three . go for three . that 's fine . marketing : uh industrial designer : 'kay . as far as the uh technology it its ' got the latest trends in speech technology , but it 's missing the screen , as we said , um but it does have the push-buttons , or the scroll-buttons , um but it does n't have that fancy solar power or the the vibrating energy mechanism . so i give it a a four . i 'd give it a kinda middle of the road for for technology . project manager : yeah , i am sort of pret uh just the fruit does me in , i mean uh it might user interface : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : it might be trendy to some , but i 'm just not swallowing the fruit , so um user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : uh also uh i would have liked to have seen the lcd screen in it . um so yeah i 'd say about four as well . marketing : okay . uh personally i wi uh i think that in terms of trends , these products are quite good , like , these products are in fruit shape , because that wha people now our fashion trend shows that people like everything all f everything that is being advertised , like clothes , shoes , and everything is being advertised in the form of fruits and vegetables , or getting them or showing some association with them . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so and in this way our product is good . and the second thing , now people do n't want any complicated or bulky products and ours is quite simple and quite handy . project manager : marketing : so that is also ef that also user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : our product meets the f the fashion uh trends of the market . and yes . it is cus spongy also . so they can play with it , it 's quite good . project manager : marketing : so then i think , maybe i can give it two . so four five ten thirteen thirteen . so we can is it fine ? so what about company strategy ? industrial designer : yeah . well it was yellow . project manager : user interface : yeah , the company strategy , okay . um there was lot of discussing , that was good . um i feel i got my say . um so i 'd give the company strategy a two . industrial designer : well , i think it 's the the remote control conforms to the the company strategy . marketing : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : is that the question ? project manager : yeah , yeah . user interface : is it ? okay . industrial designer : um . user interface : okay , so one or two . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : one . okay , just leave it , it 's fine . industrial designer : i 'll go with two . marketing : so what about you , brian ? project manager : um yeah , a three . pretty much kept to the company strategy , so i would go for a a one , as we not only kept it , but we were limited by marketing : yeah , and me also , like , this product me uh me uh me uh this meets all company strategy like our product should be as per customers ' requirement , as per latest technology , and it should be environmental safe . so since our product meets all these requirements , so i would also prefer to give it rank one . so four six six industrial designer : so one and a half . marketing : half . user interface : yeah , one . marketing : so we can say two or one industrial designer : a two . marketing : okay . so th seven seven . uh overall we are getting two something , but we can round it as two . yeah . so i think overall uh evaluation of our product is quite good . project manager : cool , groovy . user interface : okay . marketing : so we can launch it . yeah . project manager : cool . brilliant . user interface : woo-hoo . project manager : in which case we are done . 'cause we 've evaluated and we are within budget . industrial designer : okay . user interface : cool . project manager : champagne lunch anyone ? industrial designer : user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the cost control . </s> project manager : um main problem that we have unfortunately being finance . industrial designer : project manager : uh , let 's just enter in the um evaluation criteria . industrial designer : project manager : um unfortunately the unit we are currently going to produce minus the extra scroll buttons , uh it 's gon na cost us fourteen point six euros . so we have to industrial designer : what 's on the uh on the left ? project manager : rea sorry , i 've accidentally highlighted somehow um . there we go . industrial designer : okay . project manager : oh god , why is it doing that ? there we go . so basically , um in order to save our two euros um i was thinking that we could have essentially the same shape , but just have it flattened . user interface : mm-hmm . more like a traditional remote control . project manager : yeah , i mean it 's already got a kind of cool shape , so but it would n't have to be curved sort of in and out . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : and by doing so oh no , hold on . does n't save us quite as much . i do n't know what 's going on with this again . industrial designer : w why is the uh double curved two of them ? project manager : oh , good point . marketing : and double curve on both sides ? curve . yeah , this is double-curve , project manager : that 's sort of curve in and out . marketing : this is double-curve . it this one is single curve . 'cause this is single curve , this is curved on both sides . so double-curve . project manager : no , i think it means double curved as in um user interface : like an s_ shape . project manager : like uh a single curve on that bottom half , and the double curved would be if it was that similar curve upward . user interface : okay . project manager : okay , i might be wrong though . marketing : like this , one curve on this side , one curve on that side . project manager : i do n't think that counts as a curve , i think that 's just a shape . marketing : hmm . hmm . industrial designer : project manager : a curvature is like the this case . user interface : okay . marketing : maybe . industrial designer : 'cause that 's the uh the biggest expense there , right . user interface : okay . industrial designer : got two of them project manager : yeah , and why why i 've got it two , i do n't know , i ca n't seem to select any more however . industrial designer : okay . well we can work around that um project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : right . no . industrial designer : cut things out . but you think it should be one . project manager : it 's meant to be one , yeah , i do n't know why i put two in there , industrial designer : okay . project manager : but um hold on till i find it , i think this shift button might be stuck again . no maybe the shift button 's stuck in . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um okay , so that would take away three , which would give us marketing : should industrial designer : project manager : oh that 's fine . industrial designer : yeah , so we 're project manager : eleven uh eleven euros sixty . user interface : cool . cool . project manager : um user interface : so we could even add something . project manager : we cou oh not quite , have the scroll-wheel , unfortunately . industrial designer : we should fire the accountants . project manager : what ? industrial designer : fire the accountants . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : ah yeah , we could add things . project manager : industrial designer : maybe if you click back in that bottom right cell , where you 're starting from , and then use the arrow keys . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : does that work ? project manager : yeah , i know , that just extends it as well . industrial designer : no mm . marketing : uh you can do one thing . project manager : i do n't know . marketing : you just select one box outsi yeah , this box . then move it with the help of this okay . project manager : it one of the buttons is sticking , i do n't know . marketing : just uh just uh okay , just a minute . okay . no input , like this . shift . no it 's not . project manager : no , it 's 'cause the uh the shift button 's stuck , or something . marketing : yeah , it 's not working . industrial designer : is it the other shift button maybe ? marketing : should we ask meli project manager : marketing : should we ask our technical expert melissa ? project manager : no that 's fine . um we 've worked out what it would be anyway . industrial designer : did you try both shift buttons ? it could be the other side . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : cancel . piss off . industrial designer : that 's too bad . project manager : oh well , never mind . um . right , so that 's finances and i dunno what we what could we reckon we could add ? um user interface : well maybe we could add something , but maybe if project manager : well i suppose that 's our that 's that 's our design that we 've got . so user interface : what do you th we 're trying to save money , so . yeah , if we 're happy with the design there 's no point in spending money , if we do n't have to . project manager : yeah . user interface : but if there is anything you think we 've missed out there , then , you know , feel free to add it . maybe i mean obviously it would be bigger so there might be more space for the the slogan on the front , project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : because it 's not in an ideal place right now . project manager : well that 's that 's uh okay , so project evaluation . we have under twelve euros fifty . project process , how do we think that went ? are we happy ? </s>
<s> what did the team eventually come up with to reduce costs ? </s> project manager : so we have to industrial designer : what 's on the uh on the left ? project manager : rea sorry , i 've accidentally highlighted somehow um . there we go . industrial designer : okay . project manager : oh god , why is it doing that ? there we go . so basically , um in order to save our two euros um i was thinking that we could have essentially the same shape , but just have it flattened . user interface : mm-hmm . more like a traditional remote control . project manager : yeah , i mean it 's already got a kind of cool shape , so but it would n't have to be curved sort of in and out . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : and by doing so oh no , hold on . does n't save us quite as much . i do n't know what 's going on with this again . industrial designer : w why is the uh double curved two of them ? project manager : oh , good point . marketing : and double curve on both sides ? curve . yeah , this is double-curve , project manager : that 's sort of curve in and out . marketing : this is double-curve . it this one is single curve . 'cause this is single curve , this is curved on both sides . so double-curve . project manager : no , i think it means double curved as in um user interface : like an s_ shape . project manager : like uh a single curve on that bottom half , and the double curved would be if it was that similar curve upward . user interface : okay . project manager : okay , i might be wrong though . marketing : like this , one curve on this side , one curve on that side . project manager : i do n't think that counts as a curve , i think that 's just a shape . marketing : hmm . hmm . industrial designer : project manager : a curvature is like the this case . user interface : okay . marketing : maybe . industrial designer : 'cause that 's the uh the biggest expense there , right . user interface : okay . industrial designer : got two of them project manager : yeah , and why why i 've got it two , i do n't know , i ca n't seem to select any more however . industrial designer : okay . well we can work around that um project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : right . no . industrial designer : cut things out . but you think it should be one . project manager : it 's meant to be one , yeah , i do n't know why i put two in there , industrial designer : okay . project manager : but um hold on till i find it , i think this shift button might be stuck again . no maybe the shift button 's stuck in . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um okay , so that would take away three , which would give us marketing : should industrial designer : project manager : oh that 's fine . industrial designer : yeah , so we 're project manager : eleven uh eleven euros sixty . user interface : cool . cool . </s>
<s> what kind of design did the team finally decide to add with the extra budget ? </s> user interface : so we could even add something . project manager : we cou oh not quite , have the scroll-wheel , unfortunately . industrial designer : we should fire the accountants . project manager : what ? industrial designer : fire the accountants . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : ah yeah , we could add things . project manager : industrial designer : maybe if you click back in that bottom right cell , where you 're starting from , and then use the arrow keys . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : does that work ? project manager : yeah , i know , that just extends it as well . industrial designer : no mm . marketing : uh you can do one thing . project manager : i do n't know . marketing : you just select one box outsi yeah , this box . then move it with the help of this okay . project manager : it one of the buttons is sticking , i do n't know . marketing : just uh just uh okay , just a minute . okay . no input , like this . shift . no it 's not . project manager : no , it 's 'cause the uh the shift button 's stuck , or something . marketing : yeah , it 's not working . industrial designer : is it the other shift button maybe ? marketing : should we ask meli project manager : marketing : should we ask our technical expert melissa ? project manager : no that 's fine . um we 've worked out what it would be anyway . industrial designer : did you try both shift buttons ? it could be the other side . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : cancel . piss off . industrial designer : that 's too bad . project manager : oh well , never mind . um . right , so that 's finances and i dunno what we what could we reckon we could add ? um user interface : well maybe we could add something , but maybe if project manager : well i suppose that 's our that 's that 's our design that we 've got . so user interface : what do you th we 're trying to save money , so . yeah , if we 're happy with the design there 's no point in spending money , if we do n't have to . project manager : yeah . user interface : but if there is anything you think we 've missed out there , then , you know , feel free to add it . maybe i mean obviously it would be bigger so there might be more space for the the slogan on the front , project manager : yeah yeah . user interface : because it 's not in an ideal place right now . project manager : well that 's that 's uh okay , so project evaluation . we have under twelve euros fifty . project process , how do we think that went ? are we happy ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the evaluation about the new remote controls . </s> project manager : okay . evaluation . oh we 've been writing this up for m months . user interface : i think it went quite smoothly . project manager : uh room for creativity , were we happy with that ? user interface : w i think we were very creative . industrial designer : project manager : no , i mea i think it means sort of individually . user interface : oh right , okay . project manager : yes , no , maybe ? user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . groovy . so uh we 're just gon na . uh yeah , okay . teamwork ? leadership , sorry . industrial designer : great leadership . user interface : excellent leadership . marketing : project manager : thank you very much . you 're all get you 're all getting a raise . uh teamwork . i thought went well . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , everyone got enough input , i think . project manager : uh and well means , yeah . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , we project manager : the technical stuff was brilliant . marketing : project manager : let 's buy more . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh right . um industrial designer : these pens are are neat though . project manager : i do n't know what , new ideas found , means , to be honest . marketing : yeah , these are new ideas , like glow-in-the-dark or something like that . we discussed all the new ideas , but of course we could n't reach any proper goals , we could n't use these , but we h we are using these scroll buttons like this . these are new ideas we and new shapes , everything project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : . at le project manager : mm 'kay . groovy . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so just general thumbs up for all of us then . industrial designer : project manager : that kind of unfortunately is too quick . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . user interface : well um . industrial designer : project manager : uh . i suppose yeah . um . industrial designer : uh so let 's talk about our bonuses and the raises we 're getting for this , right . project manager : that 's it , um i think another couple of days holiday pay might be well in order for all of you . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : right , right . project manager : uh let 's see if i can get this bloody thing to work . industrial designer : uh maybe we should start cleaning up the clay . project manager : whoops . user interface : yeah , maybe . industrial designer : marketing : so project manager : does it go back in , does it ? reusable . industrial designer : something we should get . project manager : i do n't know what this is but it 's really really annoying . marketing : so uh brian , have you have you finished ? project manager : uh-huh . marketing : uh mine needs also this . project manager : um i have , yes . marketing : at last mine is also the presentation . project manager : huh ? oh right , okay , you 've got more , okay . marketing : yeah , yeah . user interface : oh , you got a presentation , project manager : sorry uh . user interface : sorry . project manager : it did n't bother to tell me that on this industrial designer : marketing : project manager : thing . is it ? okay . marketing : uh is the project evaluated , that is mine . project manager : does n't tell me . oh you 're doing that . marketing : yeah . project manager : we evaluated ourselves , we thought we were great . marketing : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : user interface : mm , love to eat that now . industrial designer : anybody user interface : kind of a green banana now . industrial designer : clay covered banana . user interface : it 's this as well , sorry , we forgot to mention it 'll be made out of kind of a rubbery latex , new material that we 've got . project manager : o okay , hold on . user interface : i 've got . industrial designer : blue . project manager : i wonder w which cell do i want . industrial designer : it 's fun to touch . user interface : yeah . marketing : so . yeah . project manager : okay , i did n't realise you had that bit . marketing : so . user interface : oh could you pass the tomato please . project manager : user interface : sorry . thank you . marketing : so now is the final evaluation , final evaluation of the uh uh of our product . how we are going to user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : means uh at what standard what standard whether it meets our standards or not . how mu what rating we will give to these products . so of course this is will be a team work , w we together have to decide wha what rating we will give to this product and everything . so what methodology i will tell you on what basis we are going to discuss all this . project manager : okay . marketing : we will give the rating to this product based on the user requirements , whether it meets the user requirements or not , this product . then trends , whether it is as fashion trends or not ? means because we have already stated that people do prefer fashionable things nowadays . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so this is also an important factor for our evaluation also . then marketing strategy of the company . as we have already discussed that our company is quite in the market , not only in terms of providing quality products , not only in pro providing latest technologies , but also in terms of providing environmental s user interface : sorry . sorry , marketing : yeah . user interface : carry on . marketing : so but also in terms of providing environmental safe products , uh yeah like uh keeping uh keeping in mind all the safety issues . so now comes the criteria rating with seven point scale . i 'm having this scale this scale , project manager : okay . marketing : so we have to do it on a board . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : the user requirem i think . project manager : alright , okay . user interface : okay . project manager : the board working again , is it ? industrial designer : do we have the uh the marker for the board ? project manager : uh . industrial designer : there it is . marketing : thank you . project manager : user interface : marketing : so these are the three crite criterias for our evaluation of our product . first of all uh comes user requirement . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so we will see whether this product meets all user requirements or not . i i will first i would like to have your views , what do you think whether it meets all user requirements or not ? user interface : um i think yeah , it did . it had all the basic buttons that they needed as well as the uh new technology that people said they wanted . project manager : yeah . user interface : um so . project manager : when the user requirement is essentially just to operate the tv , user interface : does it work ? project manager : so yeah , user interface : yeah . so . marketing : so what do you think you will personally give . project manager : of course we have n't actually got a working model yet . user interface : i would say seven . marketing : seven . uh . user interface : seven is good , yeah , is n't it ? i ca n't true or false ? no sorry tr one is true . marketing : project manager : one , yeah . marketing : uh one is means highest ranking , okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : but i think highest ranking is seven , or one ? project manager : no it 's it 's like true is one end , and false is the oth industrial designer : no that 's false . marketing : okay , right right . so it 's one for from your point of view . user interface : okay , so one . marketing : and what do you say our industrial expert ? industrial designer : uh . it 's hard to know . i i give it a two . marketing : uh d you can you can tell on on the like project manager : marketing : i think she has given her views on the basis of design , because she was our i interface expert . industrial designer : okay . marketing : but you can give your views based on technology , whether the technology meets the requirements of the customers or not ? industrial designer : um yeah , i think i it might even exceed it um . but i guess there is a kind of a shortage of buttons . project manager : industrial designer : um i 'm gon na give it a two . marketing : and what about uh you , brian ? project manager : oh , i 'll go for a one . marketing : you will go for one . project manager : basic requirements but of the pro of the project . marketing : okay . uh for me personally it is everything fine , it may be having good design , it may be uh meeting all the requirements of the customers like technology-wise , price-wise , but there is one thing which limits the customers , like we are having only two , three designs , like we are having one banana design and the other one is orange , industrial designer : project manager : yeah th user interface : mm yellow . marketing : uh yeah , lower end . and the third one is what you ge uh that is not a f fruit look . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : but if a person does n't like banana , or orange , you are limiting him . user interface : uh-huh . project manager : come on that was the tha marketing : no , do n't buy our product , because we are l we like this only . project manager : 'kay . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : so we are showing our preference for particular fruits , user interface : okay . industrial designer : project manager : being fruitist . marketing : two or three kinds rather , and yeah . so . user interface : is that no is that not trends ? marketing : uh no , uh personally as a marketing expert i do n't believe that , project manager : marketing : because whatever companies they launch their products in the shape of fruits , they give a range of products , a range of shapes , like if we see , look at the smallest thing , toffee chocolates , they give a variety of different things . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : some children like to buy banana shape , some apple shape , some even pineapple shape , some orange shape . industrial designer : marketing : so you can what shape a person will like . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so in this case giving only one or two choices we are lim limiting our customers . and by limiting them , we are limiting our sales , limiting our profit also . user interface : uh-huh . but in electronics , i think , it 's not q always quite so um you do n't always have so many choices as with chocolates . project manager : user interface : i think , you know , if you 're going to buy a tv maybe a company 'll have that you 're going to choose from , a company 'll have two or three choices , but they 're different designs . we were coming up with one product . marketing : uh maybe . okay but i will i will personally wo n't give it beyond three . project manager : user interface : no , i mean uh obviously your opinion , industrial designer : user interface : i 'm just trying to okay . marketing : so we can project manager : he 's a tough cookie . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , on an average we can think three , four sevenths , maybe . three or four ? project manager : marketing : uh , no sorry , industrial designer : marketing : it should be project manager : six . five or six . user interface : what are we doing ? industrial designer : what are we doing ? marketing : no sorry , sorry , sorry , sorry , we are doing a very wrong thing . user interface : adding them up ? industrial designer : we 're gon na average them ? marketing : yeah , yeah , we are taking everything , industrial designer : okay . so seven fourths . marketing : and that 's i have taken it very wrongly . yeah uh industrial designer : about one point f one point eight . marketing : three four four two six seven seven sev yeah one pe exactly . so we can say one or two . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : because it is one point eight uh two , so we will do two . industrial designer : project manager : oh i see . industrial designer : yeah round it up to two . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay , yeah . industrial designer : so trends . marketing : so where were the trends . industrial designer : can you explain what you want us to write there ? marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : how it how conforms to the current trends ? marketing : yeah , again the the fashion trends , this also like whether it it will be fashionable to have these products in the uh as a fruit shape or something . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : user interface : okay . well um going on uh the specifications that we had , that fruit and vegetables are quite popular , and that people like something that is good to look at and not many buttons , i would give it um , well , because it 's hard to make a fruit good to look at , that that looks cool , you know , project manager : user interface : so i would actually give it a three . marketing : user interface : tha three or four , i 'm not sure . marketing : okay . yeah . user interface : three . go for three . that 's fine . marketing : uh industrial designer : 'kay . as far as the uh technology it its ' got the latest trends in speech technology , but it 's missing the screen , as we said , um but it does have the push-buttons , or the scroll-buttons , um but it does n't have that fancy solar power or the the vibrating energy mechanism . so i give it a a four . i 'd give it a kinda middle of the road for for technology . project manager : yeah , i am sort of pret uh just the fruit does me in , i mean uh it might user interface : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : it might be trendy to some , but i 'm just not swallowing the fruit , so um user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : uh also uh i would have liked to have seen the lcd screen in it . um so yeah i 'd say about four as well . marketing : okay . uh personally i wi uh i think that in terms of trends , these products are quite good , like , these products are in fruit shape , because that wha people now our fashion trend shows that people like everything all f everything that is being advertised , like clothes , shoes , and everything is being advertised in the form of fruits and vegetables , or getting them or showing some association with them . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so and in this way our product is good . and the second thing , now people do n't want any complicated or bulky products and ours is quite simple and quite handy . project manager : marketing : so that is also ef that also user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : our product meets the f the fashion uh trends of the market . and yes . it is cus spongy also . so they can play with it , it 's quite good . project manager : marketing : so then i think , maybe i can give it two . so four five ten thirteen thirteen . so we can is it fine ? so what about company strategy ? industrial designer : yeah . well it was yellow . project manager : user interface : yeah , the company strategy , okay . um there was lot of discussing , that was good . um i feel i got my say . um so i 'd give the company strategy a two . industrial designer : well , i think it 's the the remote control conforms to the the company strategy . marketing : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : is that the question ? project manager : yeah , yeah . user interface : is it ? okay . industrial designer : um . user interface : okay , so one or two . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : one . okay , just leave it , it 's fine . industrial designer : i 'll go with two . marketing : so what about you , brian ? project manager : um yeah , a three . pretty much kept to the company strategy , so i would go for a a one , as we not only kept it , but we were limited by marketing : yeah , and me also , like , this product me uh me uh me uh this meets all company strategy like our product should be as per customers ' requirement , as per latest technology , and it should be environmental safe . so since our product meets all these requirements , so i would also prefer to give it rank one . so four six six industrial designer : so one and a half . marketing : half . user interface : yeah , one . marketing : so we can say two or one industrial designer : a two . marketing : okay . so th seven seven . uh overall we are getting two something , but we can round it as two . yeah . so i think overall uh evaluation of our product is quite good . project manager : cool , groovy . user interface : okay . marketing : so we can launch it . yeah . project manager : cool . brilliant . user interface : woo-hoo . project manager : in which case we are done . 'cause we 've evaluated and we are within budget . industrial designer : okay . user interface : cool . project manager : champagne lunch anyone ? industrial designer : user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what 's the final evaluation of the project ? </s> marketing : so now is the final evaluation , final evaluation of the uh uh of our product . how we are going to user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : means uh at what standard what standard whether it meets our standards or not . how mu what rating we will give to these products . so of course this is will be a team work , w we together have to decide wha what rating we will give to this product and everything . so what methodology i will tell you on what basis we are going to discuss all this . project manager : okay . marketing : we will give the rating to this product based on the user requirements , whether it meets the user requirements or not , this product . then trends , whether it is as fashion trends or not ? means because we have already stated that people do prefer fashionable things nowadays . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so this is also an important factor for our evaluation also . then marketing strategy of the company . as we have already discussed that our company is quite in the market , not only in terms of providing quality products , not only in pro providing latest technologies , but also in terms of providing environmental s user interface : sorry . sorry , marketing : yeah . user interface : carry on . marketing : so but also in terms of providing environmental safe products , uh yeah like uh keeping uh keeping in mind all the safety issues . so now comes the criteria rating with seven point scale . i 'm having this scale this scale , project manager : okay . marketing : so we have to do it on a board . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : the user requirem i think . project manager : alright , okay . user interface : okay . project manager : the board working again , is it ? industrial designer : do we have the uh the marker for the board ? project manager : uh . industrial designer : there it is . marketing : thank you . project manager : user interface : marketing : so these are the three crite criterias for our evaluation of our product . first of all uh comes user requirement . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so we will see whether this product meets all user requirements or not . i i will first i would like to have your views , what do you think whether it meets all user requirements or not ? user interface : um i think yeah , it did . it had all the basic buttons that they needed as well as the uh new technology that people said they wanted . project manager : yeah . user interface : um so . project manager : when the user requirement is essentially just to operate the tv , user interface : does it work ? project manager : so yeah , user interface : yeah . so . marketing : so what do you think you will personally give . project manager : of course we have n't actually got a working model yet . user interface : i would say seven . marketing : seven . uh . user interface : seven is good , yeah , is n't it ? i ca n't true or false ? no sorry tr one is true . marketing : project manager : one , yeah . marketing : uh one is means highest ranking , okay . user interface : yeah . marketing : but i think highest ranking is seven , or one ? project manager : no it 's it 's like true is one end , and false is the oth industrial designer : no that 's false . marketing : okay , right right . so it 's one for from your point of view . user interface : okay , so one . marketing : and what do you say our industrial expert ? industrial designer : uh . it 's hard to know . i i give it a two . marketing : uh d you can you can tell on on the like project manager : marketing : i think she has given her views on the basis of design , because she was our i interface expert . industrial designer : okay . marketing : but you can give your views based on technology , whether the technology meets the requirements of the customers or not ? industrial designer : um yeah , i think i it might even exceed it um . but i guess there is a kind of a shortage of buttons . project manager : industrial designer : um i 'm gon na give it a two . marketing : and what about uh you , brian ? project manager : oh , i 'll go for a one . marketing : you will go for one . project manager : basic requirements but of the pro of the project . marketing : okay . uh for me personally it is everything fine , it may be having good design , it may be uh meeting all the requirements of the customers like technology-wise , price-wise , but there is one thing which limits the customers , like we are having only two , three designs , like we are having one banana design and the other one is orange , industrial designer : project manager : yeah th user interface : mm yellow . marketing : uh yeah , lower end . and the third one is what you ge uh that is not a f fruit look . industrial designer : project manager : marketing : but if a person does n't like banana , or orange , you are limiting him . user interface : uh-huh . project manager : come on that was the tha marketing : no , do n't buy our product , because we are l we like this only . project manager : 'kay . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : so we are showing our preference for particular fruits , user interface : okay . industrial designer : project manager : being fruitist . marketing : two or three kinds rather , and yeah . so . user interface : is that no is that not trends ? marketing : uh no , uh personally as a marketing expert i do n't believe that , project manager : marketing : because whatever companies they launch their products in the shape of fruits , they give a range of products , a range of shapes , like if we see , look at the smallest thing , toffee chocolates , they give a variety of different things . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : some children like to buy banana shape , some apple shape , some even pineapple shape , some orange shape . industrial designer : marketing : so you can what shape a person will like . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so in this case giving only one or two choices we are lim limiting our customers . and by limiting them , we are limiting our sales , limiting our profit also . user interface : uh-huh . but in electronics , i think , it 's not q always quite so um you do n't always have so many choices as with chocolates . project manager : user interface : i think , you know , if you 're going to buy a tv maybe a company 'll have that you 're going to choose from , a company 'll have two or three choices , but they 're different designs . we were coming up with one product . marketing : uh maybe . okay but i will i will personally wo n't give it beyond three . project manager : user interface : no , i mean uh obviously your opinion , industrial designer : user interface : i 'm just trying to okay . marketing : so we can project manager : he 's a tough cookie . industrial designer : marketing : yeah , on an average we can think three , four sevenths , maybe . three or four ? project manager : marketing : uh , no sorry , industrial designer : marketing : it should be project manager : six . five or six . user interface : what are we doing ? industrial designer : what are we doing ? marketing : no sorry , sorry , sorry , sorry , we are doing a very wrong thing . user interface : adding them up ? industrial designer : we 're gon na average them ? marketing : yeah , yeah , we are taking everything , industrial designer : okay . so seven fourths . marketing : and that 's i have taken it very wrongly . yeah uh industrial designer : about one point f one point eight . marketing : three four four two six seven seven sev yeah one pe exactly . so we can say one or two . industrial designer : okay . user interface : okay . marketing : because it is one point eight uh two , so we will do two . industrial designer : project manager : oh i see . industrial designer : yeah round it up to two . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay , yeah . industrial designer : so trends . marketing : so where were the trends . industrial designer : can you explain what you want us to write there ? marketing : sorry ? industrial designer : how it how conforms to the current trends ? marketing : yeah , again the the fashion trends , this also like whether it it will be fashionable to have these products in the uh as a fruit shape or something . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : user interface : okay . well um going on uh the specifications that we had , that fruit and vegetables are quite popular , and that people like something that is good to look at and not many buttons , i would give it um , well , because it 's hard to make a fruit good to look at , that that looks cool , you know , project manager : user interface : so i would actually give it a three . marketing : user interface : tha three or four , i 'm not sure . marketing : okay . yeah . user interface : three . go for three . that 's fine . marketing : uh industrial designer : 'kay . as far as the uh technology it its ' got the latest trends in speech technology , but it 's missing the screen , as we said , um but it does have the push-buttons , or the scroll-buttons , um but it does n't have that fancy solar power or the the vibrating energy mechanism . so i give it a a four . i 'd give it a kinda middle of the road for for technology . project manager : yeah , i am sort of pret uh just the fruit does me in , i mean uh it might user interface : industrial designer : marketing : project manager : it might be trendy to some , but i 'm just not swallowing the fruit , so um user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : uh also uh i would have liked to have seen the lcd screen in it . um so yeah i 'd say about four as well . marketing : okay . uh personally i wi uh i think that in terms of trends , these products are quite good , like , these products are in fruit shape , because that wha people now our fashion trend shows that people like everything all f everything that is being advertised , like clothes , shoes , and everything is being advertised in the form of fruits and vegetables , or getting them or showing some association with them . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so and in this way our product is good . and the second thing , now people do n't want any complicated or bulky products and ours is quite simple and quite handy . project manager : marketing : so that is also ef that also user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : our product meets the f the fashion uh trends of the market . and yes . it is cus spongy also . so they can play with it , it 's quite good . project manager : marketing : so then i think , maybe i can give it two . so four five ten thirteen thirteen . so we can is it fine ? so what about company strategy ? industrial designer : yeah . well it was yellow . project manager : user interface : yeah , the company strategy , okay . um there was lot of discussing , that was good . um i feel i got my say . um so i 'd give the company strategy a two . industrial designer : well , i think it 's the the remote control conforms to the the company strategy . marketing : okay . user interface : okay . industrial designer : is that the question ? project manager : yeah , yeah . user interface : is it ? okay . industrial designer : um . user interface : okay , so one or two . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : one . okay , just leave it , it 's fine . industrial designer : i 'll go with two . marketing : so what about you , brian ? project manager : um yeah , a three . pretty much kept to the company strategy , so i would go for a a one , as we not only kept it , but we were limited by marketing : yeah , and me also , like , this product me uh me uh me uh this meets all company strategy like our product should be as per customers ' requirement , as per latest technology , and it should be environmental safe . so since our product meets all these requirements , so i would also prefer to give it rank one . so four six six industrial designer : so one and a half . marketing : half . user interface : yeah , one . marketing : so we can say two or one industrial designer : a two . </s>
<s> why did the team have different opinions when evaluating the design of three fruits ? </s> marketing : so we are showing our preference for particular fruits , user interface : okay . industrial designer : project manager : being fruitist . marketing : two or three kinds rather , and yeah . so . user interface : is that no is that not trends ? marketing : uh no , uh personally as a marketing expert i do n't believe that , project manager : marketing : because whatever companies they launch their products in the shape of fruits , they give a range of products , a range of shapes , like if we see , look at the smallest thing , toffee chocolates , they give a variety of different things . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : some children like to buy banana shape , some apple shape , some even pineapple shape , some orange shape . industrial designer : marketing : so you can what shape a person will like . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so in this case giving only one or two choices we are lim limiting our customers . and by limiting them , we are limiting our sales , limiting our profit also . user interface : uh-huh . but in electronics , i think , it 's not q always quite so um you do n't always have so many choices as with chocolates . project manager : user interface : i think , you know , if you 're going to buy a tv maybe a company 'll have that you 're going to choose from , a company 'll have two or three choices , but they 're different designs . we were coming up with one product . marketing : uh maybe . okay but i will i will personally wo n't give it beyond three . project manager : user interface : no , i mean uh obviously your opinion , industrial designer : user interface : i 'm just trying to okay . marketing : so we can </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : um we are so the meeting will have about the same format as the last time . so switching over i 've just left uh my first two screens . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : um mailed you the minutes of the last meeting uh just to save time . user interface : okay . cool . project manager : um and is there any questions you have that arised from last meeting that are particularly bothering you ? n user interface : mm um . no , i do n't think so . project manager : no ? okay , cool . then we shall start with a presentation from raj . marketing : yeah . hi , me raj , again . uh in this meeting i i 'm going to discuss about the trend watching , uh how these trends is going to affect our market potential and how important is this . so we have to look on this . first of all methodology . the met methodology to find out the trend was incl uh was done in a way we have done a rec not only a recent remote control market survey , but we also considered the latest fre fashion trends of the market , because we think that this is also a factor which will affect our sales and profit . so what are our findings ? in our uh in our findings we have seen that when we did our remote control market survey we found that uh people l uh people do have preference for tho fancy mobi uh f remote controls which look and feel very good , rather than having a functional look and feel uh good . so this sh this clearly indicates their preference for the design their outlook of the remote controls . so we should take into uh we should consider this factor as the most important factor , because this factor is twice as important , the second factor which is further ti twice the as important as the sec as uh the third factor . so this factor becomes the most important factor in our surv uh uh in our mark uh means in take in designing our rem uh remote controls . user interface : the last one is the most important one , is it ? marketing : no the first one is the user interface : oh , sorry . marketing : uh the outlook of the mobile , the it should have a fancy outlook , user interface : okay . marketing : the fancy design uh rather than just having a functional look and feel good , it should have a fancy look and foo feel good . user interface : okay . marketing : the second most important aspect is that remote control should be a technologically uh innovative . we must have some technological advancement in the remote control tha rather than just putting it as it is as the other remo uh remote controls are . so it uh should be technologically innovative like glow-in-the-dark or speech recognition , something like that . project manager : marketing : so that indicates our technological advancement . and the third most important aspect in the ta to take into consideration is that it should be easy to use , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : like it should n't be too much co complicated , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : there should n't be too many buttons on this mobi uh remote control , it should n't be too complicated uh like this way . and it should be uh and customers should be provided with manuals that is easy to understand in their local language , something . so that they could know how to use these remote controls . when we did uh f fashions uh , recent fashion uh our recent fashion update shows that user interface : sorry . industrial designer : marketing : ah yeah ? user interface : i was just reading fruit and vegetables . project manager : user interface : hard to know how we are going to incorporate that . marketing : y yeah uh yeah , we have to , because uh d you can see how people have related their clothes , shoes , and everything with fruits and vegetables , user interface : marketing : because the g world is now changing it 's trend towards organic , becoming more and more organic , user interface : okay . yeah . industrial designer : we should make a big sponge lemon , marketing : becoming industrial designer : and then it 'd be it would be yellow . marketing : yeah . project manager : user interface : yeah . industrial designer : it 's marketing : so user interface : th that 's very good . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . so something like that we we should do . user interface : glow-in-the-dark . okay . marketing : and people uh the f feel of the material is expected to be spongy rather than just having a plastic look , hard look . industrial designer : mm . user interface : well , that 's good . marketing : yeah . yeah . user interface : that 's what we kind of predicted anyway . marketing : so so that they could play with it while handi uh while handling it . so that should also be taken into consideration . user interface : okay . okay . marketing : so these are my views . user interface : okay . marketing : so user interface : okay , the spongy , not real spongy , you can marketing : no it ca y a user interface : do you think like rubber would be good or does it really want to be like gel kind of stuff ? marketing : the rubber which is good for health and which is quite disposable that we can take into co user interface : okay . quite disposable . marketing : yeah . 'cause we it should n't be have any harm to the environment also , user interface : okay . marketing : because our company is very well for taking all these concerns into consideration , project manager : alright , okay . user interface : oh okay . marketing : so we do n't want to have any harm to the society , user interface : uh-huh . okay . marketing : so project manager : fashion . user interface : project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : cool . marketing : so that 's all . project manager : fruit and veg , well there you go . user interface : project manager : just what i think of when i think of a remote control . user interface : a remote control ? yeah . marketing : user interface : and were there any factors that were n't important in the survey , that they said we do n't want ? marketing : s uh we did n't find out any such point . user interface : or was it just okay . marketing : uh yes , there could be , but we could n't find out any , so project manager : mm-mm-mm-mm . user interface : cool . project manager : mm-mm-mm-mm-mm . user interface : f_ , what is it ? um . project manager : function f_ eight . user interface : yeah . okay . marketing : yeah . oh no , . user interface : no signal . is that ? industrial designer : no , it 's got it 's got it . marketing : yeah , uh yeah , uh yeah . yeah . project manager : excuse me . user interface : okay , and then f_ five , right ? project manager : uh , yeah . user interface : okay . um okay , so the interface concept um . yeah . the interface specification , what people um how they interact with it basically , i think . um so the method , we looked at existing designs , what are the what 's good about them , what 's bad about them , um i looked at their flaws , so we 're going to look at their flaws , everything . um and what the survey told us and what we think would be good , so a bit of imagination . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : uh the findings , i 've got some pictures to show you as well . project manager : either . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . okay , so most remote controls use graphical interface , where you um have got s buttons and you point it rather than having the output as a a stream of text or something . project manager : uh okay . user interface : um and we also found that there 's inconsistent layout , which makes it confusing . so i think for our remote control there is some inconsistency already in ec existing in between remote controls , but i think standard kind of um shape and uh play and those kind of but buttons like the the top right for on and off or something , project manager : right , okay . yeah . user interface : i think , people find that important , 'cause then it 's easy to use . project manager : user interface : and we 've got some pictures of some uh new remote controls to show you . project manager : excellent . user interface : do i press escape f_ five ? or just project manager : uh no just escape should uh user interface : escape , okay . um , oh i still have n't got my glasses on . yeah , okay . so these are the some of the pictures of existing ones . project manager : user interface : i 'll just walk you through them . this one is a voice recognition . project manager : 'kay . user interface : and that 's the kind of idea we 're going for . project manager : looks pretty complicated . user interface : there 's um an lcd thing , which we thought could i thought could get a bit confusing and a bit expensive as well for us . project manager : right , okay . user interface : this one is got a kind of scroll like a mouse , project manager : mm-hmm , like the middle button . user interface : which yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : um and but i 'm not exactly sure how you 'd use that , industrial designer : project manager : ah it 's kinda like scrolling user interface : like would the computer come project manager : uh right , well , if i s if i 'm thinking of the right one , i 've got the same thing in front of my monitor , you scroll it and the when you reach the sort of um menu item that you require , you press the middle of the scroll . user interface : uh-huh , that 's like the lcd one , project manager : right , okay . user interface : is it ? but the one below that has got like a little scroll function on the side . but i presume that the functions must come up on the tv screen . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , presumably . user interface : i think that 's what that is . so these are just a few ideas . again that 's just quite boring shape , grey , looks quite space-agey , but too many buttons , i think on that one . industrial designer : uh it looks threatening . project manager : yeah , looks like uh looks like something out of a jet . user interface : yeah , it does look kind of dangerous . industrial designer : it looks like yeah . user interface : um this one i thought was really cool . it 's w it 's got the programmability function that we talked about . industrial designer : user interface : you can put it in there , it 's for your kids , and it 's quite an organic shape and the little circle around there is pretty cool . project manager : okay . user interface : and that 's really easy to use , bright , so i like this one lot for our design . i think something like that would be good . project manager : yeah , i m i mean the one thing i think about about these ones is um these kl uh secured areas um , i 've seen a lot of them with the the cover missing . user interface : of course yellow . project manager : so like have it hinge rather than sort of clip on or whatever . user interface : right , yeah . yeah , that 's true . yeah . um so maybe that could be built into one of the things and it comes up on the tv or something . and this one , the over-sized one , i do n't know about you , but i think it 's a bit too gimmicky . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : i do n't think that will sell very well . project manager : i mean is that not sort of to assist the blind or something , is it ? user interface : i guess so . i do n't know . industrial designer : then d blind do n't watch tv . project manager : strange . user interface : i think that 's a bit yeah exactly . project manager : no they do , they do . industrial designer : they do ? project manager : they listen to it . yeah . user interface : yeah . and um this one is just pointing out . i like some of these things um the the raised symbols and everything , but pointing out um that this one the volume it is kind of pressing down , but it would actually go up , because of the shape . project manager : right , okay . user interface : so that could that 's a bit confusing . um but the buttons on this i think are it 's just showing you how you can have different different um buttons . they do n't have to be all the same . so that 's quite cool . um . project manager : 'kay but people tend to recognise certain shapes to do certain things anyway , do n't they ? user interface : yeah , exactly . um f_ five . yes . so there are some of the findings . so we need to combine those ones um industrial designer : user interface : and i 've just got an e-mail from our technical department saying that they have broken through with some new speech recognition software that you can program in . project manager : brilliant . that 's handy . user interface : um yeah it is , just in time , very handy . um so i think maybe incorporating that in our design would be good . project manager : okay . user interface : it 's you program it like you say , record , um and then , play , and then , record , play machine , and stuff like that , so that 's and it 's much yeah . so that 's quite cool . uh personal preferences just some imagination , the raised symbols i thought were good , the lcd , it does look smart , but i think maybe for our budget , do you think that would be a bit too expensive to have the industrial designer : the lcd user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and the other stuff uh , i think . user interface : and the speech recognition , 'cause i think we 're definitely going for the speech recognition , marketing : but in our market survey we have seen that people are willing to pay more , user interface : are we ? marketing : but they want the quality , they want f fancy look , they want some new design , something new . user interface : uh-huh . project manager : okay . marketing : uh yeah . user interface : uh-huh . but our budget , we 've project manager : it 's still it 's still got to get within our twelve fifty , you know . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so even if we increase our cost little bit , within uh some limits , and we give something new technological advancement as well as new design with fancy outlook , i think we will meet the requirements and we will be able to have a good sales in the market . user interface : uh-huh . okay . project manager : okay . user interface : i 'm not sure if the if for twenty five euros uh per uh twelve euros fifty m manufacturing cost , . industrial designer : ben bana project manager : yeah . i ca n't see tha although , th i mean to be to be sure they have got i mean they are going crazy with the lcd technology now , user interface : the lcd . project manager : so that you 've got your lcd tvs and everything so maybe the small industrial designer : project manager : but i mean like i i the black and white , i guess , it just does n't look funky enough . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : um but , i mean , like even mobile phones or whatever have now have colour lcd screens , w i ju i mean user interface : yeah . s project manager : i would n't know about the costs of them . user interface : uh-huh . industrial designer : but uh price price not withstanding um , is it too complicated , is it gon na be too much just overload ? marketing : and the project manager : twelve fifty . marketing : uh i it will be easy because there will be , on lcd s screen , there will be different frent icons , they can just click ok okay , whatever they wa project manager : possibly . user interface : yeah , that 's the thing , because industrial designer : but but the thing is when you use a remote control , you never look at it , right ? you 're looking at the tv project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and and it 's uh project manager : yeah . user interface : that 's true , yeah . industrial designer : it just seems kind of like a a needless th user interface : and one of the survey findings was that they want it easy to use , so i think i 'm not sure about the lcd . project manager : right . user interface : it 's a it 's great , it 's a good idea , but for our budget and for the thing we 're trying to go for eas easy to use , it 's not the thing we should go for , i think . child-friendly , i thought this was good , as you pointed out the um the bit , it often goes missing especially with children , but it 's a good shape and the organic is kind of we could make a vegetabley kind of round shape , i think . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : so which vegetable ? project manager : well i mean we could make a user interface : yeah , i know , carrot . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : well , si since we 're going for the uh the k the sort of company colours , i think your lemon was n't that far s industrial designer : the the lemon . well what are the options ? user interface : yeah . project manager : and if it does n't work you know , we 've just made a lemon . user interface : but we do n't want it to be yeah . um the child-friendly , yeah . easy to use , it seems quite easy to use . i like the d the different shapes of the buttons and stuff . project manager : mm-hmm . i like i like the colourful buttons as well . user interface : i think that 's a good idea to go for . yeah . and the mouse one , i thought it was a good idea , because people use mo mice mouses now with the scrolling thing . um . project manager : yeah . i mean we are marketing to sort of twenty five to thirty five , user interface : yeah . project manager : so most people will have come in contact with that kind of use . user interface : s yeah . so they 'd be able to use that um , as i said i think i i 'd presume it would come up on the screen . project manager : yeah . user interface : um so there you go . project manager : and that means tha that means you get to bump that bit to the tv maker , so user interface : yeah . so that 's um the user interface project manager : 'kay . user interface : design . project manager : industrial designer : okay . user interface : so okay , i 'll take this out now then . project manager : user interface : there you go . industrial designer : i guess there are a lot of options that we 're gon na have to choose from among , project manager : yeah , looks like it . industrial designer : and i 'll i 'll give you the uh , i guess , technical considerations for those . project manager : uh industrial designer : and i 'm gon na use the whiteboard , just 'cause we have n't used it . project manager : yeah , i was just thinking the self same thing . user interface : industrial designer : right . so , the way i 'm gon na do this is uh we 're gon na take a look at some old remote controls , see how they work , uh reuse the the vital kind of um essential pieces of it , project manager : industrial designer : and then we 'll throw in our new innovations um and keep it all within budget . project manager : magic man . industrial designer : so uh yeah , looking inside a a very simple remote control . um this is what they sent me . 'kay . here 's uh the competition , i suppose . project manager : industrial designer : um you open it up , there 's a circuit board inside , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and there 's a a chip , a processor , the t_a_ one one eight three five , which um receives input from the buttons , and ch project manager : so this is a standard off the shelf kind of a chip , is it ? industrial designer : right , it 's very they 're very cheap remote . this remote costs nothing , you know . um so that takes a signals from the buttons and translates it into a sequence of pulses that it then sends to the to the amplifier , which is made of some transistors and amplifiers , op-amps , and then that gets sent to the uh to the l_e_d_ light , which i can kinda see is that little red light bulb at the end , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and that sends out the infrared uh light signal to the television . project manager : right . industrial designer : oh here it is . um so this is kind of the the bear essentials that we need to have in our remote control , because it it defines the uh project manager : okay . so can we make them to pretty much any size we like or is there a minimum or ? industrial designer : r um no , i mean this is a very old one , so now with the new technology this is a a minimally small and cheap thing to make . project manager : they got ta be almost a key-ring . industrial designer : right . so this is what we need to have for certain . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um . so you know , as we said , we got the outer casing , which we have to decide , you know , what 's it gon na be , um the board we have to use basically uh the same set-up , processor , um we 'll probably use the more advanced processor than they had , amplifier and transmitter are all standard . um so for the casing , uh this an e-mail i got from our manufacturing team uh , you know , we have a bunch of options from wood , titanium , rubber , plastic , whatnot , um latex , double-curved , curved . so lots of choices , user interface : project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : what do we think ? uh or sponge , i guess , is n't on there , right . project manager : well . user interface : mm . i 'm not sure about the sponge . industrial designer : organic sponge . project manager : well , i mean like la latex has a kinda spongy feeling to it , does n't it . industrial designer : uh yeah , it 's very elasticy for sure . project manager : um yeah . and that would k also give it kinda durability user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : and ther that 's also f sorta relatively cheap to cast . industrial designer : yeah so project manager : um so maybe s uh a sort of uh plastic initial plastic with a a latex kinda sheath ? industrial designer : okay so , here are a a plastic , uh latex user interface : i like the rubber , the stress balls , i think , project manager : oh right , okay . user interface : you know , that could be a bit of a gimmick like it 's good to hold and industrial designer : oh right . project manager : i do n't know what that stuff is . industrial designer : so something with give to it . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . and user interface : and that might be quite durable and easy to chuck around . industrial designer : and the colour is yellow , right ? user interface : yeah , project manager : or at least incorporating , yeah . user interface : y yellow incorporated , yeah . industrial designer : yellow , okay . um . project manager : i mean i forgot i we 're sort of uh i do n't know what other standard silver kind of user interface : i think project manager : other parts or uh user interface : mm . yeah , the buttons w like , 'cause there 's gon na be the the cover the the rubber or the plastic casing and then the buttons in probably two different colours project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm ' kay . user interface : or i if we 're having buttons actually , industrial designer : so yellow for the body , and then what colour for the buttons ? project manager : um i quite like the multi-coloured buttons myself . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so multi-coloured buttons . user interface : you do have ones like um play could be green or on and off is red , and stuff like that , yeah . project manager : yeah or yeah a limit uh maybe even just a limited multi-colour so it it does n't look too childish , perhaps . user interface : makes it easy to use . yeah , that 's true , because that blue one did look quite hardish . industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah . although i mean this uh uh also comes to shape as well . i mean if we are gon na make it a novel i mean double-curved sounds good to me if we 're talking about sorta ergonomic and easy use , industrial designer : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : a bit comfier , you know . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm 'kay so the shape we wan na go um how exactly ? maybe double user interface : like uh an hour glass kind of figure , is that what you 're thinking of , project manager : yeah it 's uh , yeah , that that 'd be that 's sort of comfortable to hold , easy to hold so you do n't drop it . user interface : or just like a it 's not industrial designer : what about a banana ? user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : we could make novelty remote controls . industrial designer : yeah ? okay , like we could have a big banana shaped remote control , project manager : well , yeah , i mean like industrial designer : 'cause it 's yellow fruit , user interface : industrial designer : right ? project manager : yeah , yeah . mm and a lemon might be a little hard to grip . yeah . user interface : yeah . but then how would you point it ? marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : how would you point it ? industrial designer : oh i it does n't matter which end you point , i guess . user interface : what industrial designer : we could have a little l_e_d_s on each end . marketing : yeah , i appreciate this idea , project manager : they only cost pennies . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : because then this this will help us in our advertisement also project manager : marketing : and we can relate with fruits and vegetables , the people 's choices . that what our data shows that , so this w this w user interface : yeah . y i 'm i 'm not sure about the banana idea . marketing : project manager : um . industrial designer : so a spongy banana re marketing : project manager : i mean that that th user interface : rubber banana . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : okay . project manager : it does seem a bit uh again childish maybe . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay , okay . user interface : i think maybe just draw on the kind of fruit and vegetable shape . and what else did you say about fashions ? what was trendy ? marketing : uh the fashion trend shows that fruits and vegetables , project manager : s industrial designer : see marketing : like people uh now project manager : and sponginess . industrial designer : so maybe an an unidentifiable fruit or fiable fruit or vegetable user interface : and spongy , yeah . marketing : spongy . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : like so it would have a stem perhaps user interface : yeah . maybe , yeah . industrial designer : maybe a it 'd be s axially symmetric . user interface : like what 's what 's that , i do n't even know the name of it , some kind of , you know where it 's like looks like a little snowman kind of thing . i do n't know the name of that . industrial designer : so it 'd look like this kinda . user interface : yeah , that 's what i was thinking . industrial designer : like a gourd almost , or a squash of some sort ? user interface : yeah , maybe that 's what they are . 'cause that you can hold it in like the bottom bit industrial designer : yeah , user interface : and industrial designer : and it has a a clear top and bottom so y so you could say , you know , it transmits from this end . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , why the hell not . let 's that 'll make us fifty million euros . user interface : i do n't know . what do you guy what do you think ? industrial designer : project manager : um . well , i guess it 's kind of dra uh you do n't necessarily have to have it sort of clearly identified as a fruit just to have that kind of fruitish shape , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , then only we can relate it with something . project manager : yeah , we can relate it by advertising or marketing : yeah . exactly . industrial designer : okay , so double-curved , single-curved , what do we feel ? project manager : yeah . marketing : or we can do something , we can design two three shapes and we can have a public survey , let the public choose what they want . user interface : uh-huh . industrial designer : okay . project manager : there 's a good man . there 's a good idea . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay um , i guess , since you 're the marketing guy . marketing : yeah , sure . i will be happy to do that . project manager : industrial designer : we 'll uh okay , we could do that . um . user interface : okay . and buttons would , did we say ? uh different shapes of buttons ? project manager : um i l i su i mean for the specific functions , you know , up and down , uh play , stop . industrial designer : okay , so project manager : they 've got , i mean , they 've got standard sort of intuitive um industrial designer : so buttons . project manager : things that are always used . industrial designer : okay , just like that . user interface : project manager : that 's cool . user interface : yeah . project manager : i like it . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um . industrial designer : with the scroll-wheel or no ? user interface : yeah , what about the scroll wheel and speech recognition ? project manager : uh speech recognition , i think , so we need a microphone presumably . industrial designer : okay uh i could put the microphone here . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay there 's the microphone . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : where should i put the microphone ? project manager : i mean ho h h wel are we sure that scroll wheel does give ease of use ? user interface : yeah , i 'm not sure . um i mean those ideas i saw were just for inspiration , i think . project manager : glad , we 're not doing this for real . user interface : um yeah , i can no i 'm not sure . industrial designer : okay , well we can do some user test with scroll-wheels , right ? user interface : i couldn yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and uh i think if this this new software for the sound recognition is the microphone industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so should the microphone be just anywhere on it or project manager : i would put it sort of sub-centrally , so it 's yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : 'kay there 's the mic . project manager : so it can be sort of held and w user interface : that 's cool . industrial designer : project manager : we really need really gon na need to hold it , if it 's gon na be voice recognition . industrial designer : um n well we can whoops . project manager : oops . user interface : so let 's not use the whiteboard any more . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : um . marketing : project manager : upsidaisy . industrial designer : oops , sorry . okay . user interface : and uh so what else was there ? um the industrial designer : project manager : user interface : what about the glow-in-the-dark thing , the strip around it ? project manager : i s i still like it . user interface : are we just gon na leave that ? project manager : um but that 's me . user interface : you still like it . 'cause we 've got the uh technological innovation with the speech recognition system . industrial designer : right . project manager : yes , or maybe it 's just going a bit uh too far . i mean we are pushing it probably with funny fruit shapes . user interface : 'cause um it could yeah . project manager : um do n't wan na sort of overkill . user interface : especially with yellow . mm . i dunno . project manager : 'cause i mean like uh if we i mean how good is the speech recognition thing ? do we want to go for buttons at all , do we want to just have a device that maybe sits and pretends it 's a fruit ? user interface : then you put it in the fruit bowl ? industrial designer : they can work from a project manager : yeah , you know , and then you just tal industrial designer : you do n't have to hold it . project manager : i mean like everybody 's got fruit bowl in front of the telly . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i it could even encourage healthier habits for television watchers , project manager : um . industrial designer : you know they have uh fruits all round them . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . make them make them think of fruit , yeah . industrial designer : now just make sure they do n't eat the remote . marketing : yeah . project manager : i mean uh some uh i user interface : yeah , do we need buttons ? project manager : l like think of a fruit that could sit sort of independently on its own like uh , i dunno , an apple . then it 's just apple so sort of industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh , yellow apples though hmm . user interface : i quite like the shape . i quite like the design of that , uh 'cause that could sit on its own and it 's quite got a quite steady base . project manager : yeah . okay , yeah , that 's good . industrial designer : okay . but yeah project manager : groovy . user interface : and as we say we n we do n't wan na be too ridiculous with the fruit things you know . project manager : yeah , . industrial designer : but yeah , about the speech thing , it does n't have to be hand held or close . it can sit at a distance and pick it up still . project manager : yeah . so i mean like you could actually user interface : okay . marketing : or we can project manager : yeah , gives you the options . marketing : we can do one thing , we can just have a remote control and casings of different different shapes , different fruit shapes in such a way that a any casing can be could be fit into this mobile general piece . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so whatever people want , like if somebody want it in banana shape , we will put that casing onto that mobile phone , okay , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so a selection of casings . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : it will look l uh yeah . in that w project manager : it kind of fi it fits with f fits with marketing um user interface : yeah , 'cause you said about disposable , marketing : s s sorry ? user interface : did n't you ? you said about disposable earli people want disposable things marketing : uh like if this is a like if this is a mobile phone uh we will design casing in such a way like half of , we need not to have a full cover , we will just have a half of cover , user interface : so we could do that , like have a choice . yeah . marketing : okay ? if somebody wants it i in banana shape , we will fit banana shape casing onto that , so it will give a banana shape look . project manager : like like mobiles , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : if somebody wanted in apple shape we will design that , we will put we will put apple shape casing on that . it will give apple shape look . so in that way you can have any , that means whatever you want , user interface : okay . okay . marketing : without uh yeah . user interface : we still need the buttons in the same places thought , marketing : yeah , button will be on the upper side , buttons will be the on the upper side . user interface : do n't we ? project manager : you can standardise those , i mean . marketing : yeah , buttons will be on the upper side , lower side we will just put the casing , user interface : oh , that 's the other side . oh , okay . marketing : so half of that will be look the user interface : oh , half a fruit . oh , okay , okay . marketing : yeah , not not the upper side . so from lower you can , it means while you are holding of from this side you c you can have banana look or apple look , whatever . user interface : okay , okay . marketing : so in that way we need not to d have different different shape mobiles everything , we will just design casings fruit shape . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : and project manager : i think tho i think if you 're gon na have a facia then you 'd want to have it so that it does go over the buttons , user interface : okay . project manager : 'cause when if you think about it if they 're wanting it , 'cause they want to look at it , if they 're using it , and what they want to look at is facing away from them . it does n't really user interface : mm mm . project manager : you know 'cause that 'd be in the palm of their hand and they would n't be able to see it , user interface : yeah . project manager : unless you have sort of you got the buttons options on one side , and you get the facia on the other side with a microphone so that you can place it face down . and you 've got the facia , and you can just talk at the user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe . industrial designer : okay , um so marketing : project manager : so you 've narrowed it down to half a dozen options . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : industrial designer : s i guess we decided on material , right ? so that that spongy latex rubber everything feel , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and the colours we got down , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and the shape , maybe we 'll just make it kinda mix and match type of shape or project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . well , um because well , i i 'm not sure if we should go so far in the whole fruit thing , because i think we should maybe just take the inspiration from the fruit and uh because what project manager : okay , so we stick with what we 've got there . user interface : yeah , w i think wh wha would we 're trying to get to twenty five , thirty five year olds who want it quite trendy as well they said . they wanted something that looks fancy and i think maybe fruit could be a bit of a too much of a gimmick , but something ergonomically shaped and organic , like good to hold , based on fruits and natural things like that , project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : because al already we 're going a bit gaudy with the yellow , you know . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean we could make it nice pale yellow . project manager : well , it 's kind of got ta be our company 's yellow . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so again i mean like we could have , uh i mean , we could quite easily have the the main body be a different user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : colour , but have user interface : maybe we could have that pale yellow and then an outside bit bright yellow with , you said , the logan the slogan . project manager : kinda going round , yeah . um i mean e even if user interface : because project manager : i mean not necessarily that the um the whole body has to be of the company colour , so you know um blue and yellow tend to go to we well together . user interface : yeah . project manager : so you have the main body blue with the yellow logo and slogan running up one side of it kind of thing . user interface : yeah . yeah . uh-huh . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : w sort of industrial designer : great . um as for the energy source um , you know , almost every remote control uses just batteries , but we do n't have to be limited by that . we can use a hand-dynamo . um i do n't know what that means , we crank it ? project manager : uh it 's i think it 's basically the more you move i it , it 's got a wee thing inside that just kinda powers it . industrial designer : right , it 's like those watches that you c project manager : uh yeah . industrial designer : so , this might be an idea for something that people really wan na grab , you can shake it if it 's out of power . user interface : oh , a d a dynamo ? marketing : yeah , . project manager : yeah , i like that , yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah , like with those watches that you kind of twist . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah that 's quite cool . industrial designer : okay . so if it if it 's not working , i guess people 's natural reaction anyway is to just shake the thing . marketing : but project manager : okay . you shake it and scream at it . marketing : but but do you think that it will be a good idea to use dynamo , tha these type of cells ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , it is , yeah . marketing : because then people have to , well like if the cell is out of bat project manager : it does leave them with an obligation to marketing : yeah , to mo yeah . project manager : especially if they want to use it uh uh sp uh specifically as um voice activated . marketing : yeah , industrial designer : right . marketing : because most of the people project manager : then if it 's just sitting on the user interface : yeah , then they have to pick it up and then activate it and then yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , okay . industrial designer : okay . user interface : that 's true . project manager : right um what are the other options ? industrial designer : uh there 's solar power . um . marketing : uh , solar power will w also not be a good idea , because then they have to keep m their mobiles outside in solar energy , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : and the days when there is no sola sunlight project manager : i 'm i 'm with uh raj on that , industrial designer : okay , so probably just marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : i think , you know , marketing : what we w project manager : i 've got i 've got no i 've got a north facing house , there 's not really ever sun coming in my window . marketing : yeah . i think we should a rechargeable battery will be a good idea . user interface : but w like just normal light ? project manager : oh that 's true . marketing : they can they can recharge it . project manager : i mean i w i w uh user interface : project manager : that idea that i thought um just on the basis of like ridding them of batteries and that kind of bother is having a , user interface : and we 're a very environmentally friendly company , are n't we as well ? project manager : yeah , marketing : yeah . project manager : having a rechargeable stand , so that not only it doubles as a stand , but um for using it as uh recharging it , but also for using it as sound recognition . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : like like a hand like one of those portable phones kind of thing . marketing : yeah , that 's yeah , exactly . project manager : yeah that kind of thing . industrial designer : okay . so uh a rechargeable battery . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . um the user interface , the buttons , i guess we talked about this already . project manager : rechargeable . . what 's chip on print ? what 's sorry , never mind . industrial designer : uh th the uh the electronics um , basically the more features we add um oops , this one . so the more features we add the fancier chips we need to buy and put in , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : which adds to the cost as you can expect . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um . but uh i think we can keep it all under budget . so uh yes , so the speech thing you said our our techno our research and development department came up with some break-through . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so just in time . project manager : yeah , and if we if we 're just having buttons and the speech then we 're getting our cheapest option of chipping . user interface : just in time . industrial designer : right , right . project manager : that 's good . industrial designer : yeah , project manager : uh woah . industrial designer : and keeping the lcd screen out . project manager : okay , we 're we 're kind of uh we 're kind of um excuse m i 've just deleted that whole thing . um we 're kind of running out of time , so if you could uh . was that you ? um that was your bit 's covered , industrial designer : oh yeah that was that was it . project manager : i just dele i just accidentally deleted what i was supposed to say next . marketing : uh excuse me , bri project manager : um , yeah . industrial designer : so control f_ eight , right ? project manager : oh , yeah . user interface : yeah , mine seems to have turned off . project manager : and i just touch the pad . user interface : i ca n't do anything . marketing : you just touch the pad , yeah . project manager : it 's actually shut down . user interface : it 's on , but there 's nothing on the screen . project manager : okay , um now what we have industrial designer : try uh flipping the screen down . project manager : uh our next meeting 's in half an hour industrial designer : 'kay . project manager : and what i would like you guys to do is work on giving me a model in clay . user interface : industrial designer : i get to do it , too . project manager : yeah . it 's you guys . yeah . industrial designer : oh neat . user interface : cool . project manager : so um , you know i mean , luckily we chose a nice simple shape . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : yeah . mm . project manager : um and further instructions will be sent by your personal coaches . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . save everything to the shared documents , is that right ? marketing : that 's great . project manager : uh yeah , i hope i can recover this , 'cause i 've accidentally deleted it . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : which does n't really help me much . user interface : i think , i 've saved mine already . project manager : yeah , can you save that uh send that last one again , please , raj , marketing : yeah . project manager : as i still ca n't find it on the marketing : uh it was under a different name . project manager : marketing : i will show you , in shared documents . project manager : okay . marketing : uh working components . oh , you did n't get that . i will send new . project manager : no . okay , thank you . marketing : uh i 'll put it in shared documents , again . project manager : um yeah , project , project documents . marketing : project documents , sorry , i put it in the shared documents . project manager : uh right , marketing : uh yeah . project manager : that 's that 's the that it goes there automatically if you put it in project documents . project documents is on the um desktop . marketing : right , that 's great . but i cou ca n't open that , because it w asks uh for some username or password . industrial designer : oh . project manager : really ? marketing : i 'll show you . industrial designer : uh these lapel mics are trouble . project manager : oh right , i think um marketing : sorry . project manager : hold on . yeah , i do n't know if y it it just ca it just came up on my um on my agenda . s um presumably there 's clay somewhere . um . four . marketing : yeah , that 's great . project manager : whoops . light , light , please . light . right , there you go . marketing : yeah , th thank you . project manager : yeah , quite . and we 're using this our basic chip set , so it 's all good . marketing : oh sorry . industrial designer : are we done with our meeting ? marketing : uh excuse me , brian . project manager : um i think we 're almost done , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : you have to keep your pen separate , because i used your pen . project manager : oh oops . marketing : s project manager : sorry man . uh okay , still did n't manage to get down all the last bits so we had rechargeable and uh . apples . mm-mm-mm-mm-mm . 'kay , so we came up with that , that 's okay . what 's supplements ? supplements . uh uh . see . user interface : cool . fun . project manager : i shoulda something like that . if i kn see i i knew that . i shoulda sort of engineered it so we k ended up making a diffi difficult shape . user interface : project manager : just for cruelty . user interface : yeah . star fruit . project manager : i wonder if they mean like literally make it , sort of buttons and everything . marketing : so sh should should we leave now , brian ? user interface : no . oh yeah , we can do buttons . marketing : or we are going to discuss something ? project manager : um . uh no , i think that 's us our discussion over unless anybody 's got questions or confusions , marketing : user interface : no i 'm good . project manager : 'cause i 'm confused . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : excuse me . project manager : um uh we 'll probably get questionnaire in a minute , it 's a marketing : sorry . thank you . yeah . project manager : there we go . warning , finish meeting now . i rounded it up far too fast . um . where are we going ? my documents , that 's not what i want . my project documents . there we go . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the merits and demerits of the existing designs in the market . </s> user interface : okay . um okay , so the interface concept um . yeah . the interface specification , what people um how they interact with it basically , i think . um so the method , we looked at existing designs , what are the what 's good about them , what 's bad about them , um i looked at their flaws , so we 're going to look at their flaws , everything . um and what the survey told us and what we think would be good , so a bit of imagination . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : uh the findings , i 've got some pictures to show you as well . project manager : either . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . okay , so most remote controls use graphical interface , where you um have got s buttons and you point it rather than having the output as a a stream of text or something . project manager : uh okay . user interface : um and we also found that there 's inconsistent layout , which makes it confusing . so i think for our remote control there is some inconsistency already in ec existing in between remote controls , but i think standard kind of um shape and uh play and those kind of but buttons like the the top right for on and off or something , project manager : right , okay . yeah . user interface : i think , people find that important , 'cause then it 's easy to use . project manager : user interface : and we 've got some pictures of some uh new remote controls to show you . project manager : excellent . user interface : do i press escape f_ five ? or just project manager : uh no just escape should uh user interface : escape , okay . um , oh i still have n't got my glasses on . yeah , okay . so these are the some of the pictures of existing ones . project manager : user interface : i 'll just walk you through them . this one is a voice recognition . project manager : 'kay . user interface : and that 's the kind of idea we 're going for . project manager : looks pretty complicated . user interface : there 's um an lcd thing , which we thought could i thought could get a bit confusing and a bit expensive as well for us . project manager : right , okay . user interface : this one is got a kind of scroll like a mouse , project manager : mm-hmm , like the middle button . user interface : which yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : um and but i 'm not exactly sure how you 'd use that , industrial designer : project manager : ah it 's kinda like scrolling user interface : like would the computer come project manager : uh right , well , if i s if i 'm thinking of the right one , i 've got the same thing in front of my monitor , you scroll it and the when you reach the sort of um menu item that you require , you press the middle of the scroll . user interface : uh-huh , that 's like the lcd one , project manager : right , okay . user interface : is it ? but the one below that has got like a little scroll function on the side . but i presume that the functions must come up on the tv screen . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , presumably . user interface : i think that 's what that is . so these are just a few ideas . again that 's just quite boring shape , grey , looks quite space-agey , but too many buttons , i think on that one . industrial designer : uh it looks threatening . project manager : yeah , looks like uh looks like something out of a jet . user interface : yeah , it does look kind of dangerous . industrial designer : it looks like yeah . user interface : um this one i thought was really cool . it 's w it 's got the programmability function that we talked about . industrial designer : user interface : you can put it in there , it 's for your kids , and it 's quite an organic shape and the little circle around there is pretty cool . project manager : okay . user interface : and that 's really easy to use , bright , so i like this one lot for our design . i think something like that would be good . project manager : yeah , i m i mean the one thing i think about about these ones is um these kl uh secured areas um , i 've seen a lot of them with the the cover missing . user interface : of course yellow . project manager : so like have it hinge rather than sort of clip on or whatever . user interface : right , yeah . yeah , that 's true . yeah . um so maybe that could be built into one of the things and it comes up on the tv or something . and this one , the over-sized one , i do n't know about you , but i think it 's a bit too gimmicky . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : i do n't think that will sell very well . project manager : i mean is that not sort of to assist the blind or something , is it ? user interface : i guess so . i do n't know . industrial designer : then d blind do n't watch tv . project manager : strange . user interface : i think that 's a bit yeah exactly . project manager : no they do , they do . industrial designer : they do ? project manager : they listen to it . yeah . user interface : yeah . and um this one is just pointing out . i like some of these things um the the raised symbols and everything , but pointing out um that this one the volume it is kind of pressing down , but it would actually go up , because of the shape . project manager : right , okay . user interface : so that could that 's a bit confusing . um but the buttons on this i think are it 's just showing you how you can have different different um buttons . they do n't have to be all the same . so that 's quite cool . um . project manager : 'kay but people tend to recognise certain shapes to do certain things anyway , do n't they ? user interface : yeah , exactly . um f_ five . yes . so there are some of the findings . so we need to combine those ones um industrial designer : user interface : and i 've just got an e-mail from our technical department saying that they have broken through with some new speech recognition software that you can program in . project manager : brilliant . that 's handy . user interface : um yeah it is , just in time , very handy . um so i think maybe incorporating that in our design would be good . </s>
<s> why did the team discuss the merits and demerits of the existing remotes ? </s> user interface : okay . um okay , so the interface concept um . yeah . the interface specification , what people um how they interact with it basically , i think . um so the method , we looked at existing designs , what are the what 's good about them , what 's bad about them , um i looked at their flaws , so we 're going to look at their flaws , everything . um and what the survey told us and what we think would be good , so a bit of imagination . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : uh the findings , i 've got some pictures to show you as well . project manager : either . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . okay , so most remote controls use graphical interface , where you um have got s buttons and you point it rather than having the output as a a stream of text or something . project manager : uh okay . user interface : um and we also found that there 's inconsistent layout , which makes it confusing . so i think for our remote control there is some inconsistency already in ec existing in between remote controls , but i think standard kind of um shape and uh play and those kind of but buttons like the the top right for on and off or something , project manager : right , okay . yeah . user interface : i think , people find that important , 'cause then it 's easy to use . project manager : user interface : this one is got a kind of scroll like a mouse , project manager : mm-hmm , like the middle button . user interface : which yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : um and but i 'm not exactly sure how you 'd use that , industrial designer : project manager : ah it 's kinda like scrolling user interface : like would the computer come project manager : uh right , well , if i s if i 'm thinking of the right one , i 've got the same thing in front of my monitor , you scroll it and the when you reach the sort of um menu item that you require , you press the middle of the scroll . user interface : uh-huh , that 's like the lcd one , project manager : right , okay . user interface : is it ? but the one below that has got like a little scroll function on the side . but i presume that the functions must come up on the tv screen . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , presumably . user interface : i think that 's what that is . so these are just a few ideas . again that 's just quite boring shape , grey , looks quite space-agey , but too many buttons , i think on that one . industrial designer : uh it looks threatening . project manager : yeah , looks like uh looks like something out of a jet . user interface : yeah , it does look kind of dangerous . industrial designer : it looks like yeah . user interface : um this one i thought was really cool . it 's w it 's got the programmability function that we talked about . industrial designer : user interface : you can put it in there , it 's for your kids , and it 's quite an organic shape and the little circle around there is pretty cool . project manager : okay . user interface : and that 's really easy to use , bright , so i like this one lot for our design . i think something like that would be good . project manager : yeah , i m i mean the one thing i think about about these ones is um these kl uh secured areas um , i 've seen a lot of them with the the cover missing . user interface : of course yellow . project manager : so like have it hinge rather than sort of clip on or whatever . user interface : right , yeah . yeah , that 's true . yeah . um so maybe that could be built into one of the things and it comes up on the tv or something . and this one , the over-sized one , i do n't know about you , but i think it 's a bit too gimmicky . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : i do n't think that will sell very well . project manager : i mean is that not sort of to assist the blind or something , is it ? user interface : i guess so . i do n't know . industrial designer : then d blind do n't watch tv . project manager : strange . user interface : i think that 's a bit yeah exactly . project manager : no they do , they do . industrial designer : they do ? project manager : they listen to it . yeah . user interface : yeah . and um this one is just pointing out . i like some of these things um the the raised symbols and everything , but pointing out um that this one the volume it is kind of pressing down , but it would actually go up , because of the shape . project manager : right , okay . user interface : so that could that 's a bit confusing . um but the buttons on this i think are it 's just showing you how you can have different different um buttons . they do n't have to be all the same . so that 's quite cool . um . project manager : 'kay but people tend to recognise certain shapes to do certain things anyway , do n't they ? user interface : yeah , exactly . um f_ five . yes . so there are some of the findings . so we need to combine those ones um industrial designer : user interface : and i 've just got an e-mail from our technical department saying that they have broken through with some new speech recognition software that you can program in . project manager : brilliant . that 's handy . user interface : um yeah it is , just in time , very handy . um so i think maybe incorporating that in our design would be good . </s>
<s> what was the conclusion about scrolling on the new remotes when they were discussing the merits of the existing remotes ? </s> user interface : this one is got a kind of scroll like a mouse , project manager : mm-hmm , like the middle button . user interface : which yeah . project manager : okay . user interface : um and but i 'm not exactly sure how you 'd use that , industrial designer : project manager : ah it 's kinda like scrolling user interface : like would the computer come project manager : uh right , well , if i s if i 'm thinking of the right one , i 've got the same thing in front of my monitor , you scroll it and the when you reach the sort of um menu item that you require , you press the middle of the scroll . user interface : uh-huh , that 's like the lcd one , project manager : right , okay . user interface : is it ? but the one below that has got like a little scroll function on the side . but i presume that the functions must come up on the tv screen . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , presumably . user interface : i think that 's what that is . so these are just a few ideas . again that 's just quite boring shape , grey , looks quite space-agey , but too many buttons , i think on that one . industrial designer : uh it looks threatening . project manager : yeah , looks like uh looks like something out of a jet . user interface : yeah , it does look kind of dangerous . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about the features and appearances of the new remotes . </s> industrial designer : so which vegetable ? project manager : well i mean we could make a user interface : yeah , i know , carrot . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : well , si since we 're going for the uh the k the sort of company colours , i think your lemon was n't that far s industrial designer : the the lemon . well what are the options ? user interface : yeah . project manager : and if it does n't work you know , we 've just made a lemon . user interface : but we do n't want it to be yeah . um the child-friendly , yeah . easy to use , it seems quite easy to use . i like the d the different shapes of the buttons and stuff . project manager : mm-hmm . i like i like the colourful buttons as well . user interface : i think that 's a good idea to go for . yeah . and the mouse one , i thought it was a good idea , because people use mo mice mouses now with the scrolling thing . um . project manager : yeah . i mean we are marketing to sort of twenty five to thirty five , user interface : yeah . project manager : so most people will have come in contact with that kind of use . user interface : s yeah . so they 'd be able to use that um , as i said i think i i 'd presume it would come up on the screen . project manager : yeah . user interface : um so there you go . project manager : and that means tha that means you get to bump that bit to the tv maker , so user interface : yeah . so that 's um the user interface project manager : 'kay . user interface : design . project manager : industrial designer : okay . user interface : so okay , i 'll take this out now then . project manager : user interface : there you go . industrial designer : i guess there are a lot of options that we 're gon na have to choose from among , project manager : yeah , looks like it . industrial designer : and i 'll i 'll give you the uh , i guess , technical considerations for those . project manager : uh industrial designer : and i 'm gon na use the whiteboard , just 'cause we have n't used it . project manager : yeah , i was just thinking the self same thing . user interface : industrial designer : right . so , the way i 'm gon na do this is uh we 're gon na take a look at some old remote controls , see how they work , uh reuse the the vital kind of um essential pieces of it , project manager : industrial designer : and then we 'll throw in our new innovations um and keep it all within budget . project manager : magic man . industrial designer : so uh yeah , looking inside a a very simple remote control . um this is what they sent me . 'kay . here 's uh the competition , i suppose . project manager : industrial designer : um you open it up , there 's a circuit board inside , project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and there 's a a chip , a processor , the t_a_ one one eight three five , which um receives input from the buttons , and ch project manager : so this is a standard off the shelf kind of a chip , is it ? industrial designer : right , it 's very they 're very cheap remote . this remote costs nothing , you know . um so that takes a signals from the buttons and translates it into a sequence of pulses that it then sends to the to the amplifier , which is made of some transistors and amplifiers , op-amps , and then that gets sent to the uh to the l_e_d_ light , which i can kinda see is that little red light bulb at the end , user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and that sends out the infrared uh light signal to the television . project manager : right . industrial designer : oh here it is . um so this is kind of the the bear essentials that we need to have in our remote control , because it it defines the uh project manager : okay . so can we make them to pretty much any size we like or is there a minimum or ? industrial designer : r um no , i mean this is a very old one , so now with the new technology this is a a minimally small and cheap thing to make . project manager : they got ta be almost a key-ring . industrial designer : right . so this is what we need to have for certain . project manager : okay . industrial designer : um . so you know , as we said , we got the outer casing , which we have to decide , you know , what 's it gon na be , um the board we have to use basically uh the same set-up , processor , um we 'll probably use the more advanced processor than they had , amplifier and transmitter are all standard . um so for the casing , uh this an e-mail i got from our manufacturing team uh , you know , we have a bunch of options from wood , titanium , rubber , plastic , whatnot , um latex , double-curved , curved . so lots of choices , user interface : project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : what do we think ? uh or sponge , i guess , is n't on there , right . project manager : well . user interface : mm . i 'm not sure about the sponge . industrial designer : organic sponge . project manager : well , i mean like la latex has a kinda spongy feeling to it , does n't it . industrial designer : uh yeah , it 's very elasticy for sure . project manager : um yeah . and that would k also give it kinda durability user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : and ther that 's also f sorta relatively cheap to cast . industrial designer : yeah so project manager : um so maybe s uh a sort of uh plastic initial plastic with a a latex kinda sheath ? industrial designer : okay so , here are a a plastic , uh latex user interface : i like the rubber , the stress balls , i think , project manager : oh right , okay . user interface : you know , that could be a bit of a gimmick like it 's good to hold and industrial designer : oh right . project manager : i do n't know what that stuff is . industrial designer : so something with give to it . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay . and user interface : and that might be quite durable and easy to chuck around . industrial designer : and the colour is yellow , right ? user interface : yeah , project manager : or at least incorporating , yeah . user interface : y yellow incorporated , yeah . industrial designer : yellow , okay . um . project manager : i mean i forgot i we 're sort of uh i do n't know what other standard silver kind of user interface : i think project manager : other parts or uh user interface : mm . yeah , the buttons w like , 'cause there 's gon na be the the cover the the rubber or the plastic casing and then the buttons in probably two different colours project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm ' kay . user interface : or i if we 're having buttons actually , industrial designer : so yellow for the body , and then what colour for the buttons ? project manager : um i quite like the multi-coloured buttons myself . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so multi-coloured buttons . user interface : you do have ones like um play could be green or on and off is red , and stuff like that , yeah . project manager : yeah or yeah a limit uh maybe even just a limited multi-colour so it it does n't look too childish , perhaps . user interface : makes it easy to use . yeah , that 's true , because that blue one did look quite hardish . industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah . although i mean this uh uh also comes to shape as well . i mean if we are gon na make it a novel i mean double-curved sounds good to me if we 're talking about sorta ergonomic and easy use , industrial designer : okay . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . yeah . project manager : a bit comfier , you know . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : mm 'kay so the shape we wan na go um how exactly ? maybe double user interface : like uh an hour glass kind of figure , is that what you 're thinking of , project manager : yeah it 's uh , yeah , that that 'd be that 's sort of comfortable to hold , easy to hold so you do n't drop it . user interface : or just like a it 's not industrial designer : what about a banana ? user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : we could make novelty remote controls . industrial designer : yeah ? okay , like we could have a big banana shaped remote control , project manager : well , yeah , i mean like industrial designer : 'cause it 's yellow fruit , user interface : industrial designer : right ? project manager : yeah , yeah . mm and a lemon might be a little hard to grip . yeah . user interface : yeah . but then how would you point it ? marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : how would you point it ? industrial designer : oh i it does n't matter which end you point , i guess . user interface : what industrial designer : we could have a little l_e_d_s on each end . marketing : yeah , i appreciate this idea , project manager : they only cost pennies . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : because then this this will help us in our advertisement also project manager : marketing : and we can relate with fruits and vegetables , the people 's choices . that what our data shows that , so this w this w user interface : yeah . y i 'm i 'm not sure about the banana idea . marketing : project manager : um . industrial designer : so a spongy banana re marketing : project manager : i mean that that th user interface : rubber banana . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : okay . project manager : it does seem a bit uh again childish maybe . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay , okay . user interface : i think maybe just draw on the kind of fruit and vegetable shape . and what else did you say about fashions ? what was trendy ? marketing : uh the fashion trend shows that fruits and vegetables , project manager : s industrial designer : see marketing : like people uh now project manager : and sponginess . industrial designer : so maybe an an unidentifiable fruit or fiable fruit or vegetable user interface : and spongy , yeah . marketing : spongy . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : like so it would have a stem perhaps user interface : yeah . maybe , yeah . industrial designer : maybe a it 'd be s axially symmetric . user interface : like what 's what 's that , i do n't even know the name of it , some kind of , you know where it 's like looks like a little snowman kind of thing . i do n't know the name of that . industrial designer : so it 'd look like this kinda . user interface : yeah , that 's what i was thinking . industrial designer : like a gourd almost , or a squash of some sort ? user interface : yeah , maybe that 's what they are . 'cause that you can hold it in like the bottom bit industrial designer : yeah , user interface : and industrial designer : and it has a a clear top and bottom so y so you could say , you know , it transmits from this end . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , why the hell not . let 's that 'll make us fifty million euros . user interface : i do n't know . what do you guy what do you think ? industrial designer : project manager : um . well , i guess it 's kind of dra uh you do n't necessarily have to have it sort of clearly identified as a fruit just to have that kind of fruitish shape , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , then only we can relate it with something . project manager : yeah , we can relate it by advertising or marketing : yeah . exactly . industrial designer : okay , so double-curved , single-curved , what do we feel ? project manager : yeah . marketing : or we can do something , we can design two three shapes and we can have a public survey , let the public choose what they want . user interface : uh-huh . industrial designer : okay . project manager : there 's a good man . there 's a good idea . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay um , i guess , since you 're the marketing guy . marketing : yeah , sure . i will be happy to do that . project manager : industrial designer : we 'll uh okay , we could do that . um . user interface : okay . and buttons would , did we say ? uh different shapes of buttons ? project manager : um i l i su i mean for the specific functions , you know , up and down , uh play , stop . industrial designer : okay , so project manager : they 've got , i mean , they 've got standard sort of intuitive um industrial designer : so buttons . project manager : things that are always used . industrial designer : okay , just like that . user interface : project manager : that 's cool . user interface : yeah . project manager : i like it . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um . industrial designer : with the scroll-wheel or no ? user interface : yeah , what about the scroll wheel and speech recognition ? project manager : uh speech recognition , i think , so we need a microphone presumably . industrial designer : okay uh i could put the microphone here . project manager : user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : okay there 's the microphone . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : where should i put the microphone ? project manager : i mean ho h h wel are we sure that scroll wheel does give ease of use ? user interface : yeah , i 'm not sure . um i mean those ideas i saw were just for inspiration , i think . project manager : glad , we 're not doing this for real . user interface : um yeah , i can no i 'm not sure . industrial designer : okay , well we can do some user test with scroll-wheels , right ? user interface : i couldn yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and uh i think if this this new software for the sound recognition is the microphone industrial designer : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so should the microphone be just anywhere on it or project manager : i would put it sort of sub-centrally , so it 's yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : 'kay there 's the mic . project manager : so it can be sort of held and w user interface : that 's cool . industrial designer : project manager : we really need really gon na need to hold it , if it 's gon na be voice recognition . industrial designer : um n well we can whoops . project manager : oops . user interface : so let 's not use the whiteboard any more . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : marketing : industrial designer : um . marketing : project manager : upsidaisy . industrial designer : oops , sorry . okay . user interface : and uh so what else was there ? um the industrial designer : project manager : user interface : what about the glow-in-the-dark thing , the strip around it ? project manager : i s i still like it . user interface : are we just gon na leave that ? project manager : um but that 's me . user interface : you still like it . 'cause we 've got the uh technological innovation with the speech recognition system . industrial designer : right . project manager : yes , or maybe it 's just going a bit uh too far . i mean we are pushing it probably with funny fruit shapes . user interface : 'cause um it could yeah . project manager : um do n't wan na sort of overkill . user interface : especially with yellow . mm . i dunno . project manager : 'cause i mean like uh if we i mean how good is the speech recognition thing ? do we want to go for buttons at all , do we want to just have a device that maybe sits and pretends it 's a fruit ? user interface : then you put it in the fruit bowl ? industrial designer : they can work from a project manager : yeah , you know , and then you just tal industrial designer : you do n't have to hold it . project manager : i mean like everybody 's got fruit bowl in front of the telly . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : i it could even encourage healthier habits for television watchers , project manager : um . industrial designer : you know they have uh fruits all round them . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . make them make them think of fruit , yeah . industrial designer : now just make sure they do n't eat the remote . marketing : yeah . project manager : i mean uh some uh i user interface : yeah , do we need buttons ? project manager : l like think of a fruit that could sit sort of independently on its own like uh , i dunno , an apple . then it 's just apple so sort of industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh , yellow apples though hmm . user interface : i quite like the shape . i quite like the design of that , uh 'cause that could sit on its own and it 's quite got a quite steady base . project manager : yeah . okay , yeah , that 's good . industrial designer : okay . but yeah project manager : groovy . user interface : and as we say we n we do n't wan na be too ridiculous with the fruit things you know . project manager : yeah , . industrial designer : but yeah , about the speech thing , it does n't have to be hand held or close . it can sit at a distance and pick it up still . project manager : yeah . so i mean like you could actually user interface : okay . marketing : or we can project manager : yeah , gives you the options . marketing : we can do one thing , we can just have a remote control and casings of different different shapes , different fruit shapes in such a way that a any casing can be could be fit into this mobile general piece . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so whatever people want , like if somebody want it in banana shape , we will put that casing onto that mobile phone , okay , user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : so a selection of casings . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : it will look l uh yeah . in that w project manager : it kind of fi it fits with f fits with marketing um user interface : yeah , 'cause you said about disposable , marketing : s s sorry ? user interface : did n't you ? you said about disposable earli people want disposable things marketing : uh like if this is a like if this is a mobile phone uh we will design casing in such a way like half of , we need not to have a full cover , we will just have a half of cover , user interface : so we could do that , like have a choice . yeah . marketing : okay ? if somebody wants it i in banana shape , we will fit banana shape casing onto that , so it will give a banana shape look . project manager : like like mobiles , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : if somebody wanted in apple shape we will design that , we will put we will put apple shape casing on that . it will give apple shape look . so in that way you can have any , that means whatever you want , user interface : okay . okay . marketing : without uh yeah . user interface : we still need the buttons in the same places thought , marketing : yeah , button will be on the upper side , buttons will be the on the upper side . user interface : do n't we ? project manager : you can standardise those , i mean . marketing : yeah , buttons will be on the upper side , lower side we will just put the casing , user interface : oh , that 's the other side . oh , okay . marketing : so half of that will be look the user interface : oh , half a fruit . oh , okay , okay . marketing : yeah , not not the upper side . so from lower you can , it means while you are holding of from this side you c you can have banana look or apple look , whatever . user interface : okay , okay . marketing : so in that way we need not to d have different different shape mobiles everything , we will just design casings fruit shape . industrial designer : yeah yeah . marketing : and project manager : i think tho i think if you 're gon na have a facia then you 'd want to have it so that it does go over the buttons , user interface : okay . project manager : 'cause when if you think about it if they 're wanting it , 'cause they want to look at it , if they 're using it , and what they want to look at is facing away from them . it does n't really user interface : mm mm . project manager : you know 'cause that 'd be in the palm of their hand and they would n't be able to see it , user interface : yeah . project manager : unless you have sort of you got the buttons options on one side , and you get the facia on the other side with a microphone so that you can place it face down . and you 've got the facia , and you can just talk at the user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : maybe . industrial designer : okay , um so marketing : project manager : so you 've narrowed it down to half a dozen options . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : industrial designer : s i guess we decided on material , right ? so that that spongy latex rubber everything feel , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and the colours we got down , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and the shape , maybe we 'll just make it kinda mix and match type of shape or project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . well , um because well , i i 'm not sure if we should go so far in the whole fruit thing , because i think we should maybe just take the inspiration from the fruit and uh because what project manager : okay , so we stick with what we 've got there . user interface : yeah , w i think wh wha would we 're trying to get to twenty five , thirty five year olds who want it quite trendy as well they said . they wanted something that looks fancy and i think maybe fruit could be a bit of a too much of a gimmick , but something ergonomically shaped and organic , like good to hold , based on fruits and natural things like that , project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : because al already we 're going a bit gaudy with the yellow , you know . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i mean we could make it nice pale yellow . project manager : well , it 's kind of got ta be our company 's yellow . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so again i mean like we could have , uh i mean , we could quite easily have the the main body be a different user interface : okay . yeah . project manager : colour , but have user interface : maybe we could have that pale yellow and then an outside bit bright yellow with , you said , the logan the slogan . project manager : kinda going round , yeah . um i mean e even if user interface : because project manager : i mean not necessarily that the um the whole body has to be of the company colour , so you know um blue and yellow tend to go to we well together . user interface : yeah . project manager : so you have the main body blue with the yellow logo and slogan running up one side of it kind of thing . user interface : yeah . yeah . uh-huh . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : w sort of industrial designer : great . um as for the energy source um , you know , almost every remote control uses just batteries , but we do n't have to be limited by that . we can use a hand-dynamo . um i do n't know what that means , we crank it ? project manager : uh it 's i think it 's basically the more you move i it , it 's got a wee thing inside that just kinda powers it . industrial designer : right , it 's like those watches that you c project manager : uh yeah . industrial designer : so , this might be an idea for something that people really wan na grab , you can shake it if it 's out of power . user interface : oh , a d a dynamo ? marketing : yeah , . project manager : yeah , i like that , yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah , like with those watches that you kind of twist . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah that 's quite cool . industrial designer : okay . so if it if it 's not working , i guess people 's natural reaction anyway is to just shake the thing . marketing : but project manager : okay . you shake it and scream at it . marketing : but but do you think that it will be a good idea to use dynamo , tha these type of cells ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , it is , yeah . marketing : because then people have to , well like if the cell is out of bat project manager : it does leave them with an obligation to marketing : yeah , to mo yeah . project manager : especially if they want to use it uh uh sp uh specifically as um voice activated . marketing : yeah , industrial designer : right . marketing : because most of the people project manager : then if it 's just sitting on the user interface : yeah , then they have to pick it up and then activate it and then yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , okay . industrial designer : okay . user interface : that 's true . project manager : right um what are the other options ? industrial designer : uh there 's solar power . um . marketing : uh , solar power will w also not be a good idea , because then they have to keep m their mobiles outside in solar energy , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : and the days when there is no sola sunlight project manager : i 'm i 'm with uh raj on that , industrial designer : okay , so probably just marketing : yeah . yeah . project manager : i think , you know , marketing : what we w project manager : i 've got i 've got no i 've got a north facing house , there 's not really ever sun coming in my window . marketing : yeah . i think we should a rechargeable battery will be a good idea . user interface : but w like just normal light ? project manager : oh that 's true . marketing : they can they can recharge it . project manager : i mean i w i w uh user interface : project manager : that idea that i thought um just on the basis of like ridding them of batteries and that kind of bother is having a , user interface : and we 're a very environmentally friendly company , are n't we as well ? project manager : yeah , marketing : yeah . project manager : having a rechargeable stand , so that not only it doubles as a stand , but um for using it as uh recharging it , but also for using it as sound recognition . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : 'kay . user interface : like like a hand like one of those portable phones kind of thing . marketing : yeah , that 's yeah , exactly . project manager : yeah that kind of thing . industrial designer : okay . so uh a rechargeable battery . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay . um the user interface , the buttons , i guess we talked about this already . project manager : rechargeable . . what 's chip on print ? what 's sorry , never mind . </s>
<s> what 's the conclusion of the discussion about the outer casing when the team was talking over the appearances of the new remotes ? </s> industrial designer : um . so you know , as we said , we got the outer casing , which we have to decide , you know , what 's it gon na be , um the board we have to use basically uh the same set-up , processor , um we 'll probably use the more advanced processor than they had , amplifier and transmitter are all standard . um so for the casing , uh this an e-mail i got from our manufacturing team uh , you know , we have a bunch of options from wood , titanium , rubber , plastic , whatnot , um latex , double-curved , curved . so lots of choices , user interface : project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : what do we think ? uh or sponge , i guess , is n't on there , right . project manager : well . user interface : mm . i 'm not sure about the sponge . industrial designer : organic sponge . project manager : well , i mean like la latex has a kinda spongy feeling to it , does n't it . industrial designer : uh yeah , it 's very elasticy for sure . project manager : um yeah . and that would k also give it kinda durability user interface : yeah . yeah . project manager : and ther that 's also f sorta relatively cheap to cast . industrial designer : yeah so project manager : um so maybe s uh a sort of uh plastic initial plastic with a a latex kinda sheath ? industrial designer : okay so , here are a a plastic , uh latex user interface : i like the rubber , the stress balls , i think , project manager : oh right , okay . </s>
<s> what shape did the team finally decide to use as the casing for the remote controls ? </s> user interface : like uh an hour glass kind of figure , is that what you 're thinking of , project manager : yeah it 's uh , yeah , that that 'd be that 's sort of comfortable to hold , easy to hold so you do n't drop it . user interface : or just like a it 's not industrial designer : what about a banana ? user interface : yeah . project manager : user interface : we could make novelty remote controls . industrial designer : yeah ? okay , like we could have a big banana shaped remote control , project manager : well , yeah , i mean like industrial designer : 'cause it 's yellow fruit , user interface : industrial designer : right ? project manager : yeah , yeah . mm and a lemon might be a little hard to grip . yeah . user interface : yeah . but then how would you point it ? marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . user interface : how would you point it ? industrial designer : oh i it does n't matter which end you point , i guess . user interface : what industrial designer : we could have a little l_e_d_s on each end . marketing : yeah , i appreciate this idea , project manager : they only cost pennies . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : because then this this will help us in our advertisement also project manager : marketing : and we can relate with fruits and vegetables , the people 's choices . that what our data shows that , so this w this w user interface : yeah . y i 'm i 'm not sure about the banana idea . marketing : project manager : um . industrial designer : so a spongy banana re marketing : project manager : i mean that that th user interface : rubber banana . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : okay . project manager : it does seem a bit uh again childish maybe . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : okay , okay . user interface : i think maybe just draw on the kind of fruit and vegetable shape . and what else did you say about fashions ? what was trendy ? marketing : uh the fashion trend shows that fruits and vegetables , project manager : s industrial designer : see marketing : like people uh now project manager : and sponginess . industrial designer : so maybe an an unidentifiable fruit or fiable fruit or vegetable user interface : and spongy , yeah . marketing : spongy . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : like so it would have a stem perhaps user interface : yeah . maybe , yeah . industrial designer : maybe a it 'd be s axially symmetric . user interface : like what 's what 's that , i do n't even know the name of it , some kind of , you know where it 's like looks like a little snowman kind of thing . i do n't know the name of that . industrial designer : so it 'd look like this kinda . user interface : yeah , that 's what i was thinking . industrial designer : like a gourd almost , or a squash of some sort ? user interface : yeah , maybe that 's what they are . 'cause that you can hold it in like the bottom bit industrial designer : yeah , user interface : and industrial designer : and it has a a clear top and bottom so y so you could say , you know , it transmits from this end . user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah , why the hell not . let 's that 'll make us fifty million euros . user interface : i do n't know . what do you guy what do you think ? industrial designer : project manager : um . well , i guess it 's kind of dra uh you do n't necessarily have to have it sort of clearly identified as a fruit just to have that kind of fruitish shape , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah ? user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , then only we can relate it with something . project manager : yeah , we can relate it by advertising or marketing : yeah . exactly . industrial designer : okay , so double-curved , single-curved , what do we feel ? project manager : yeah . marketing : or we can do something , we can design two three shapes and we can have a public survey , let the public choose what they want . user interface : uh-huh . industrial designer : okay . project manager : there 's a good man . there 's a good idea . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay um , i guess , since you 're the marketing guy . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : right w welcome to the the first meeting of uh real reaction 's uh um development meetings for our our new television remote control . uh this follows our very successful entry into the the consumer market over the last year or so um which we want to to build on , taking advantage of the uh the the latest developments in in technology and the uh the latest uh uh feelings in in consumer design and and demand and uh we want to make this the the very best product th that 's possible for everybody , uh one that everybody wants , uh at a good price for the consumer and at a good price for the company . uh and to that end we need all to work together uh to do that . um and uh b in no particular order because ev everybody is uh just as vital to this project um i 'll just go round th the table , andrew , marketing , um m kendra with the uh um designing the the the user interface uh uh and kate with the the industrial design . um . what 's uh the the th th project is is here to do , is is to to get this this project up and moving , ev everybody is is free to uh say wh whatever they want , uh everybody has a contribution to make and uh everybody feel free to interrupt me at any time to to say what you want to say . um in in terms of the immediate meeting the uh um everybody knows everybody else , everybody 's worked for the the company for a while , if if an anybody feels that they need to say more about themselves please do , if if if anybody wants to b briefly give their their background so that everybody 's quite clear what everybody uh uh everybody 's experience is please do so . uh in fact i 'd i 'd i 'd welcome anybody to uh say something briefly about themselves , in fact we will do that by by going round the table quickly and and saying what what contribution you you 're looking to make . so we 'll start with andrew . marketing : oh my name 's andrew i 'm a i 'm the market research person for this uh for this meeting and this uh project for creating this new remote control and uh yeah i 'll be uh presenting information statistics on what people want to want to uh get from this new design , what people want to like and from a fashion point of view and the practicality point of view . project manager : right kendra . user interface : i 'm kendra and i 'm the us user interface designer and um i have n't had a whole lot of experience in this kind of thing before but i 'm m so i 'll be working on the design . project manager : right at least means you have n't got any preconceived ideas so . user interface : right . yep , i 'm just open to being creative . industrial designer : uh i 'm katie , project manager : yep , good . industrial designer : i 'm the industrial designer and i 'll just be i guess presenting about the the inter workings of our little remote control and uh yeah . project manager : okay , very very quickly , um this i do n't want to make this meeting too structured because the the whole idea is that it 's a um you know a think tank . everybody says what they what they want to say , uh and we do n't want to be constrained by uh kind of convention or uh uh slides on screens or or anything else um but um briefly um th th this is what we want to do . the the remote control needs to be original , there has to be something about it that uh other remote controls do n't have so that as soon as people see it they think um yes that 's different , uh i want one , um and that goes along with being trendy , uh uh you know the i want it uh scenario . user-friendly as as we all know , remote controls can be uh uh very user-unfriendly so we want to make ours one that people can pick up marketing : project manager : and think oh yes that 's it 's obvious how that works , uh and they also want to look at the price and think oh yeah that 's something that i may not need another remote control but uh it 's such a nice one i 'm gon na have one . and last but not least , or indeed first of all , it it must make the company money , and we make the company money by producing what the consumer wants . the uh the further work to be done is i the um the functional design , uh what it uh what it must actually do , the uh conceptual design , uh how we actually present that to the consumer and th the the detailed design i is uh how we get that into production . uh now th the main design tool that we have available to us at the moment is is the white board and uh uh let us very quickly do what i what it says in the in the in the prompt slide here , um in fact i suggest to avoid everybody untangling themselves from the uh the the wires , that we do n't do that , um so i i everybody knows what whiteboard is so we 'll um uh we 'll do a virtual drawing on the on on the whiteboard of of your your own uh uh favourite animal , but le let 's go round the table , your favourite animal . marketing : um , badger . project manager : mm and why ? marketing : uh it 's it 's got nice contrast with black and white and uh project manager : uh-huh . marketing : i feel they 're underdog kind of status project manager : oh right marketing : and they 're , the project manager : uh my my wife says my beard looks like a badger 's arse 'cause of the the white streaks in it . industrial designer : user interface : um probably a duck marketing : project manager : kendra . user interface : i just i li i like the way they look and they 're just nice animals and i like how they can fly or swim or walk around or whatever . project manager : uh-huh . right , okay . industrial designer : uh 's horses , no particular reason why . project manager : uh-huh , fair enough yeah . user interface : project manager : i 'm not sure that i 've got any favourite animal to be quite honest , i think homo sapien industrial designer : project manager : because of their their uh overall ability to uh uh user interface : marketing : make mobile phones and tv remotes project manager : sorry ? industrial designer : marketing : to make tv remotes . project manager : indeed absolutely yes , industrial designer : project manager : tha that 's um okay and uh w we need to keep in mind here that the uh we want to sell this for for twenty five euro um , we want to m make an overall profit for the the company of fifty million euros so we 're we 're looking at selling a lot of these um ag across the the entire planet and and we 're looking at a gross profit of fifty percent . it needs to cost twelve euros fifty to make . um so we 're not only looking at a a very trendy original product , we 're looking at making it at a very good price . um , okay , um would anybody like t like to to start by giving their o um sort of quick views of of current remote controls . user interface : well i think i find a lot of them really complicated to use with all the different buttons and uh it 's handiest when you have one that works both the d_v_d_ player or whatever and the tv as well . um , but that it 's easy to if you can switch back and forth instead of having to press a bunch of different buttons and so i think it 's is best when they 're clearly labelled and you can see which buttons you 're supposed to use , you know . project manager : any any thoughts about buttons or any oth other way of approaching the p the uh the problem ? or anybody else , strong feelings about remote controls ? are there you know , bad ones they 've used or good ones they 've used or ones that they 've lost and never found again ? industrial designer : um i think it 's important that you should be able to when you when you press the buttons it 'll actually pick up the signals from kind of anywhere and you should n't have to like contort yourself and twist your remote control to get it the tv to actually pick up the signal . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : think a lot of the time , remotes that come with tv players and tvs and d_v_ players , like they are n't like an area that 's put a lot of effort into , they 're very boring , very plain . like it 's very a very like um making a a stylish remote control would be a very like easily put us one step ahead of the current competition . project manager : um what so wh what 's in in what particular style features are you thinking about ? marketing : um . something that looks looks does n't look like remote control . industrial designer : marketing : so if you want , something that looks like uh something that makes you think oh what 's this ? like this pen does n't really look like a pen , project manager : uh-huh . marketing : but it makes you think oh . project manager : . yeah marketing : so , sorry that 's a bit vague . project manager : d no i mean do you think there 's a risk if it does n't look like remote control , people wo n't see it as a remote control um and uh marketing : uh i suppose suppose that 's up to the marketing to to make make people aware of the product . project manager : uh-huh . any other thoughts about um th the physical appearance of a of remote controls ? user interface : i think something that 's comfortable to hold because sometimes you get the remote controls that are just those big , rectangular things and uh they 're kind of awkward to hold onto , marketing : user interface : so something that 's more comfortable that fits in a person 's hand better . project manager : i mean th the thing that i immediately comes to mind is computer mouses which um i mean y you get all sorts of shapes in the shops user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : and s you know some quite fancy ones um than the user interface : yeah . project manager : some from personal experience which look nice industrial designer : project manager : but are n't particularly comfortable . um any thoughts about buttons or flat screens or uh uh user interface : yeah . marketing : well from the mouse idea you could , remote is a piece of plastic with the big rubber buttons sticking out of it which you press , whereas if you want could all be flat and the buttons are very kind of almost subtle that instead of being raised out of the device uh you push into device you see , like a mouse button . project manager : yes , i mean the only thing is if if you 're watching television in a in a a darkened room um you need to be able to uh marketing : i suppose . project manager : fi find the button buttons easily . marketing : easily , yeah yeah . user interface : but maybe they could be concave instead of sticking up to have them be kind of down so you could feel them better . project manager : yeah , that 's uh must admit i do n't think i 've ever seen one with concave buttons , that 's uh certainly be different . um do we need it to uh i ca n't think of any re remote controls that i know of that actually light up at all . user interface : oh yeah . project manager : do we do we want uh industrial designer : mm that would be good . user interface : like a like a mobile phone ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm , yeah that would be good . project manager : okay . so , andrew have you had any thoughts yet about how we might market something which there are already millions out there and that we want to uh uh uh t take over the entire um the planet with ? industrial designer : user interface : marketing : mm-hmm , um especially if we try to sell , what two million of them . oh sorry , four million of 'em , but uh i think if w if we market it as as not as not well this you c you could either market it as the point of view we could have the two we could have parallel marketing s schemes where you 've got one where it appeals to people that want to have the new device that looks cool , is fashionable and like you just it 's it 's like uh it 's one that rather than ra i wan i want rather than a kind of a need relationship with the device , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : but that might considering the act what the device is for and the nature of some people might not like respond to having a device that they just looks nice , therefore they want it so make it practical at the same time . i think it 's this is gon na have to appeal to people that want device that can enhance their living room project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh but also a device that uh is practically sound . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , yeah , yeah , well marketing : so um , i dunno we 'll have to decide which which angle we 're gon na go to or both . if you . project manager : i d i think an any uh any facets that we identify w we aim need to aim for for all of . um okay well marketing : mm . project manager : first thoughts on um the the industrial design side . industrial designer : oh i think it 's it 's remote controls are kind of a unique object 'cause it 's you depend on them so much , but you do n't i i it 's you sort of just assume they 're always gon na work , you do n't think of them as a comp like a computer can break down and you 're kinda like oh well fair enough there 's all these complex things going on , it 's gon na something 's gon na get messed up eventually . they they just need to be very very dependable because people sort of take them for granted and then if your remote control breaks it 's god forbid you actually get up and manually change the channel project manager : indeed . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : it just it needs to be very effective , very always dependable . uh i do n't think we should make it too small i 'cause i think it needs to it ca n't be too big like you were saying big an and huge and um awkward , but also if you make it too small kinda like you know how mobile phones are getting smaller and smaller um , it 's just gon na end up under a couch cushion somewhere and um yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but so yes dependable , and have a good medium range size . project manager : okay , and um colours , materials ? kendra , anyone ? user interface : well , most i think most of the remote controls now are either just black or grey , project manager : . user interface : so maybe we should go with something different or be able to i was just thinking of um what they 're doing with mobile phones now how you can get the different um what are they called ? like the face-plates project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm-hmm . user interface : that you change so we could have maybe i do n't know if it would be feasible to do something with that , where you can change the face-plates or have kind of a variety project manager : uh-huh . user interface : so people can get different different things . have it kind of look how they want to , different colours , things like that , project manager : right . user interface : probably just plastic because that 's always the lightest . project manager : yeah . okay that 's uh again i do n't think that 's ever been done before , user interface : project manager : it 's uh the sort of the sort of thing that would get people uh thinking yes that 's something that i have n't got and uh might need so . uh andrew , any thoughts about uh how we might market interchangeable fronts on on the remote control ? marketing : um , well we could either market it together by getting control in a set colour or with like you buy it with several uh like you ge you get the f uh the face-plates with it when you buy or as a separate thing , but uh maybe thinking of that , it 's considering the nature of the device , maybe a second thing like a second campaign to market new facials for your to your might go a bit astray project manager : yeah . marketing : since it is the kind of thing where y you generally get one and then forget about it . project manager : yeah . marketing : unless you were trying to project manager : i think industrial designer : well you could come up with like novelty ones , like they 've done with the the mobile phones , you can get like different you know scenes from different movies and stuff on the remote control user interface : yeah . marketing : oh industrial designer : and sorta stagger the release of them marketing : it 's that 's a that 's a good idea . industrial designer : and get people like oh i want that cover on it now and that 'll keep them spending money . user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-mm . right , okay marketing : yeah true . project manager : i think we 've got um a good idea now . we uh meeting is uh needs to be k uh wrapped up fairly quickly . so uh um we 've got thirty minutes to start looking at the um at the design in more detail . um then we 'll we will reconvene in in thirty minutes and try to get some of these ideas uh uh more formalised . uh thank you very much indeed . industrial designer : thank you . user interface : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about remote control style . </s> user interface : well i think i find a lot of them really complicated to use with all the different buttons and uh it 's handiest when you have one that works both the d_v_d_ player or whatever and the tv as well . um , but that it 's easy to if you can switch back and forth instead of having to press a bunch of different buttons and so i think it 's is best when they 're clearly labelled and you can see which buttons you 're supposed to use , you know . project manager : any any thoughts about buttons or any oth other way of approaching the p the uh the problem ? or anybody else , strong feelings about remote controls ? are there you know , bad ones they 've used or good ones they 've used or ones that they 've lost and never found again ? industrial designer : um i think it 's important that you should be able to when you when you press the buttons it 'll actually pick up the signals from kind of anywhere and you should n't have to like contort yourself and twist your remote control to get it the tv to actually pick up the signal . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : think a lot of the time , remotes that come with tv players and tvs and d_v_ players , like they are n't like an area that 's put a lot of effort into , they 're very boring , very plain . like it 's very a very like um making a a stylish remote control would be a very like easily put us one step ahead of the current competition . project manager : um what so wh what 's in in what particular style features are you thinking about ? marketing : um . something that looks looks does n't look like remote control . industrial designer : marketing : so if you want , something that looks like uh something that makes you think oh what 's this ? like this pen does n't really look like a pen , project manager : uh-huh . marketing : but it makes you think oh . project manager : . yeah marketing : so , sorry that 's a bit vague . project manager : d no i mean do you think there 's a risk if it does n't look like remote control , people wo n't see it as a remote control um and uh marketing : uh i suppose suppose that 's up to the marketing to to make make people aware of the product . project manager : uh-huh . any other thoughts about um th the physical appearance of a of remote controls ? user interface : i think something that 's comfortable to hold because sometimes you get the remote controls that are just those big , rectangular things and uh they 're kind of awkward to hold onto , marketing : user interface : so something that 's more comfortable that fits in a person 's hand better . project manager : i mean th the thing that i immediately comes to mind is computer mouses which um i mean y you get all sorts of shapes in the shops user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : and s you know some quite fancy ones um than the user interface : yeah . project manager : some from personal experience which look nice industrial designer : project manager : but are n't particularly comfortable . um any thoughts about buttons or flat screens or uh uh user interface : yeah . marketing : well from the mouse idea you could , remote is a piece of plastic with the big rubber buttons sticking out of it which you press , whereas if you want could all be flat and the buttons are very kind of almost subtle that instead of being raised out of the device uh you push into device you see , like a mouse button . project manager : yes , i mean the only thing is if if you 're watching television in a in a a darkened room um you need to be able to uh marketing : i suppose . project manager : fi find the button buttons easily . marketing : easily , yeah yeah . user interface : but maybe they could be concave instead of sticking up to have them be kind of down so you could feel them better . project manager : yeah , that 's uh must admit i do n't think i 've ever seen one with concave buttons , that 's uh certainly be different . um do we need it to uh i ca n't think of any re remote controls that i know of that actually light up at all . user interface : oh yeah . project manager : do we do we want uh industrial designer : mm that would be good . user interface : like a like a mobile phone ? project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what doubts does project manager have about marketing 's suggestion when discussing remote control style ? </s> project manager : um what so wh what 's in in what particular style features are you thinking about ? marketing : um . something that looks looks does n't look like remote control . industrial designer : marketing : so if you want , something that looks like uh something that makes you think oh what 's this ? like this pen does n't really look like a pen , project manager : uh-huh . marketing : but it makes you think oh . project manager : . yeah marketing : so , sorry that 's a bit vague . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about remote control style ? </s> user interface : i think something that 's comfortable to hold because sometimes you get the remote controls that are just those big , rectangular things and uh they 're kind of awkward to hold onto , marketing : user interface : so something that 's more comfortable that fits in a person 's hand better . project manager : i mean th the thing that i immediately comes to mind is computer mouses which um i mean y you get all sorts of shapes in the shops user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : and s you know some quite fancy ones um than the user interface : yeah . project manager : some from personal experience which look nice industrial designer : project manager : but are n't particularly comfortable . um any thoughts about buttons or flat screens or uh uh user interface : yeah . marketing : well from the mouse idea you could , remote is a piece of plastic with the big rubber buttons sticking out of it which you press , whereas if you want could all be flat and the buttons are very kind of almost subtle that instead of being raised out of the device uh you push into device you see , like a mouse button . project manager : yes , i mean the only thing is if if you 're watching television in a in a a darkened room um you need to be able to uh marketing : i suppose . project manager : fi find the button buttons easily . marketing : easily , yeah yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about remote control design ? </s> project manager : first thoughts on um the the industrial design side . industrial designer : oh i think it 's it 's remote controls are kind of a unique object 'cause it 's you depend on them so much , but you do n't i i it 's you sort of just assume they 're always gon na work , you do n't think of them as a comp like a computer can break down and you 're kinda like oh well fair enough there 's all these complex things going on , it 's gon na something 's gon na get messed up eventually . they they just need to be very very dependable because people sort of take them for granted and then if your remote control breaks it 's god forbid you actually get up and manually change the channel project manager : indeed . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : it just it needs to be very effective , very always dependable . uh i do n't think we should make it too small i 'cause i think it needs to it ca n't be too big like you were saying big an and huge and um awkward , but also if you make it too small kinda like you know how mobile phones are getting smaller and smaller um , it 's just gon na end up under a couch cushion somewhere and um yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : but so yes dependable , and have a good medium range size . project manager : okay , and um colours , materials ? kendra , anyone ? user interface : well , most i think most of the remote controls now are either just black or grey , project manager : . user interface : so maybe we should go with something different or be able to i was just thinking of um what they 're doing with mobile phones now how you can get the different um what are they called ? like the face-plates project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm-hmm . user interface : that you change so we could have maybe i do n't know if it would be feasible to do something with that , where you can change the face-plates or have kind of a variety project manager : uh-huh . user interface : so people can get different different things . have it kind of look how they want to , different colours , things like that , project manager : right . user interface : probably just plastic because that 's always the lightest . project manager : yeah . okay that 's uh again i do n't think that 's ever been done before , </s>
<s> what did industrial designer propose in the discussion of industrial design ? </s> project manager : first thoughts on um the the industrial design side . industrial designer : oh i think it 's it 's remote controls are kind of a unique object 'cause it 's you depend on them so much , but you do n't i i it 's you sort of just assume they 're always gon na work , you do n't think of them as a comp like a computer can break down and you 're kinda like oh well fair enough there 's all these complex things going on , it 's gon na something 's gon na get messed up eventually . they they just need to be very very dependable because people sort of take them for granted and then if your remote control breaks it 's god forbid you actually get up and manually change the channel project manager : indeed . user interface : marketing : industrial designer : it just it needs to be very effective , very always dependable . uh i do n't think we should make it too small i 'cause i think it needs to it ca n't be too big like you were saying big an and huge and um awkward , but also if you make it too small kinda like you know how mobile phones are getting smaller and smaller um , it 's just gon na end up under a couch cushion somewhere and um yeah . project manager : yeah . </s>
<s> what did user interface think about colours and materials ? </s> project manager : okay , and um colours , materials ? kendra , anyone ? user interface : well , most i think most of the remote controls now are either just black or grey , project manager : . user interface : so maybe we should go with something different or be able to i was just thinking of um what they 're doing with mobile phones now how you can get the different um what are they called ? like the face-plates project manager : yeah . industrial designer : mm , mm-hmm . user interface : that you change so we could have maybe i do n't know if it would be feasible to do something with that , where you can change the face-plates or have kind of a variety project manager : uh-huh . user interface : so people can get different different things . have it kind of look how they want to , different colours , things like that , project manager : right . user interface : probably just plastic because that 's always the lightest . project manager : yeah . okay that 's uh again i do n't think that 's ever been done before , </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> marketing : oh right okay . i cover myself up . project manager : i feel like madonna with one of these on . i said i feel like madonna with one of these on . industrial designer : marketing : . project manager : marketing : i 've always wanted one of these , i really have . where do you buy 'em from ? they 're . project manager : user interface : marketing : project manager : right . hello everybody . user interface : hello . project manager : back again for another wonderful meeting . industrial designer : . marketing : project manager : is uh everyone ready ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : almost . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , we c we can hold on for a minute . marketing : oh my gosh . project manager : i figured with the spam thing , if you ca n't beat it , join in . user interface : marketing : user interface : that 's the kind of spam that everybody likes to receive . marketing : industrial designer : mm 'kay . project manager : are you ready ? okay , right , well , i take it that you are all ready now . marketing : project manager : um alright first off we 'll just uh recap from our last meeting . um which was we got together just to basically decide on well to talk about what it is that we were actually uh supposed to be doing , marketing : project manager : and who we all are and stuff like that , mm get bit more of an idea together of what 's going on . um what we are gon na talk about in this meeting is um now that we know what it is that we are doing , now we know that it 's a tv remote and stuff and you guys have just been off doing some some uh r_ and d_ for that , that 's research and development for those that have n't heard that before , user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : see i 'm learning all sorts of new technologi terms in technology today . um yeah , we 're gon na hear your uh th three little presentations , marketing : project manager : whether they be on computer or on the whiteboard or whatever you want . user interface : hmm . do you have any preference uh of order ? project manager : um i 'd like to um hear marketing : project manager : o i 'd like to hear who 's g who 's on the um from from uh catherine actually first . i want what i 'd like to hear about is uh if we 've finally decided on um what sort of energy we 're gon na be using and industrial designer : marketing : batteries . user interface : i think she is still finishing her . industrial designer : no no no no , it 's fine i 'm just preparing . project manager : it 's just that yeah , let 's let 's hear from you first . industrial designer : okay . where is that thing ? user interface : okay , it 's uh marketing : it 's here . industrial designer : oh sorry , could n't see . marketing : industrial designer : would that work ? project manager : get yourself in position . industrial designer : okay , so that 's me again . um so um for the energy sources we can have a basic battery , a hand dynamo which is which was used uh in the fifties for torches , if you remember that kind of which would n't be v would n't be v v project manager : i do n't think any of us remember the fifties . user interface : is it like a crank thing or something . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . it would n't be very fancy . marketing : industrial designer : you can have a kinetic provision of energy , which is used on some watches these days . so if you have just a bit of gentle movement that it will give it the energy to work . or you can use solar cells , but i 'm not sure about that indoors , really , but user interface : well , there 's sometimes combinations , i mean , like calculators do combinations of battery with but also using some solar power . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : do sol solar panel things , do they have to work from the sun or can they work from a light bulb ? does anybody know ? industrial designer : i dunno actually . user interface : uh i think , it has to be on the on the solar energy , but i do n't know . industrial designer : i dunno . um . think the the uh what would cost the less would be the basic battery , really . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and uh if we want something fancier , i think the kinetic provision of energy could be nice , but i do n't know if it 's worth the cost . so we 've got to discuss that . project manager : mm . okay , jolly good . industrial designer : for the case of the remotes itself , um they can be a general case , which is just a flat one . you can have uh a curved one or a double curved one , if you know what i mean , so project manager : what 's a double curved one ? industrial designer : you know , kind of more ergonomic , that kind of suits the palm of your hand , that kind of thing . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so um then the case material itself , so it can be uh uh either plastic or latex , uh rubber , wood , or titanium . and th for each of them you have uh cases where for example titanium , you ca n't use it for if you if we 're choosing a double curved case , we ca n't choose titanium . and if we are choosing um solar cells then we ca n't choose latex for the case material , so we just have to take that into account . but if we 're choosing just the flat case then we can go for anything . and i think we discussed earlier on the r_ s_ i_ problem thing , so we could uh project manager : so that might be an idea of using the rubber , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but then it should , you know user interface : let 's have a squeezable remote . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . and also it does n't break as easily maybe , project manager : when a tv programme 's got one industrial designer : i dunno user interface : project manager : watching the match and your team 's just lost , you can fuzz it across the room and it 'll bounce off the wall back at you . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , i like that idea . industrial designer : so rubber would be okay . marketing : i think rubber 's project manager : rubber , we 're all we 're all going we 're all liking that idea ? you think you can market that ? marketing : but after my after my fashion thing , i think you 'll realise that rubber is more project manager : ooh , we like rubber , ooh . industrial designer : uh s so if d marketing : people . industrial designer : okay . and then there are the push-buttons , so you can have basic push-buttons or a scroll-wheels , like you have on a mouse , um or you could have um lcd , which gives you a display . um scroll buttons , as well . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : so if you use a rubber double curved case , you must use rubber push-buttons . so if we 're going for rubber then we have to decide for the case . um and if we choose double curved then we have to go for rubber push-buttons . project manager : well , we 're gon na go with i think we 've decided that it 's gon na be a rubber case so industrial designer : so it 's a constraint . yeah , but is it a double curved one or not ? if it 's not a double curved , then we 've got the choice for the push-buttons , if it 's a double curve , we 've got ta go for rubber push-buttons . if that makes sense . project manager : push buttons instead of the wheel ? industrial designer : yeah . . user interface : if it 's rubber , is n't it malleable anyway , it does n't matter if it 's double i mean is n't a rubber case , mean it 's completely flexed , i mean , it it flexes to whatever they want it to ? mean so what 's the difference between a normal rubber case and a rubble doub double rubber double curved case ? project manager : rubble double double . industrial designer : no , but na le you see , you 've got , okay , the energy that 's one thing , project manager : i 'll have a big mac , please . industrial designer : then you have the case is uh , whether it 's flat or curved . and that 's we do n't care if it 's rub rubber or not , but then we 've decided that we going for rubber for the case material . so if we 've chosen rub rubber and if now we have the choice for the case whether it 's flat , single curved or double curved . and i 'm just saying if it if we choose it to be double curved then we need to go i dunno why , but we need to go for uh rubber push-buttons . so , either user interface : okay . industrial designer : i dunno we just need to decide on the on the case . project manager : let 's have rubber push buttons , hey . user interface : okay . go rubber . go rubber the whole way . industrial designer : let 's go crazy . and then , do i have a last slide ? yes , i do . um so the push-buttons themselves they can be just simple or they can be so that 's just the electronics between the but behind the push-buttons . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um and the price that go with it with it , so the simple push-buttons are gon na be the cheapest . uh if we get a scroll-wheel , that 's a higher price range . if we get an advanced chip which is um used for the lcd , the display thing , then that 's even more expensive . project manager : simple , yeah . chip on print . it 's a bit . okay , uh what i 'm not understanding here is uh , okay , advanced chip on print , which i presume is like one p_c_b_ and that 's got all the electronics on one board including the um infra-red sender ? industrial designer : . yeah . marketing : industrial designer : the infra-red . yeah . project manager : right . um what a what alternatives do we have to that ? y um what alternatives do we have to the chip on print ? industrial designer : well , if if it 's not chip on print then , i guess , you get different chip components , and you build them separately and does n't include the infra-red . it 's less expensive mm project manager : so it sounds industrial designer : technically speaking , it 's not as advanced , but it does the job , too . project manager : so , why would we not go for that ? if it 's something that 's inside the the unit . i it does n't affects whether the customer 's gon na buy it or not . industrial designer : fo it does n't , yeah , yeah , yeah . totally . yeah . project manager : um we wan na go for an i i all industrial designer : so let 's not go for the project manager : so long as it works , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . i agree . project manager : you know . so let 's not let 's uh not bother with the chip on print . industrial designer : so it 's either um the scroll-wheel or the push-buttons . project manager : yeah . s yeah , push buttons . marketing : what about the just developed uh sample sensor ? user interface : i think push-buttons is project manager : what about what ? marketing : g there , the sample sensor , sample speaker thing . industrial designer : well project manager : well , what do we need a speaker for in a remote control unit ? marketing : mm , i dunno . be cool . industrial designer : it 'd be it 'd be cool , but they are saying they 've just developed it , user interface : yeah . marketing : channel two . industrial designer : i 'm just guessing . but it 's gon na be the most expensive option , probably and user interface : th the the speech recognition um option is it does n't seem really very promising for us uh , project manager : yeah . it 's not something that we wan na t go into with this product . user interface : 'cause uh the yeah the example that they 're already using it for is with the coffee machine , where , basically , you can program a sample wi um that when you say something it will give a response , and you program the response as well . just uh clips of tha that you record yourself . so you can program your coffee-maker that when you say , good morning , to it it says , hello rick , or whatever . project manager : yeah . user interface : but , i mean , it 's not it would be one thing if it was speech recognition where you say something and it turns the tv on like , turn the tv on , and i turns comes on , but it 's not that . it just gives you a it just gives you a verbal response . marketing : oh , it just gives an answer . user interface : so , yeah , i mean , like what 's the point of saying , hello remote , i mean , hello , how how are you ? marketing : oh , then then project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : just if you are really lonely , maybe . marketing : i thought i thought it was when they said user interface : yeah , if you 're really lonely , it is it 's marketing : i thought when they said , voice recognition , they meant um like , industrial designer : channel five . and then it switches on . marketing : channel five , and it will change . user interface : no , tha that w that w that would be more promising . marketing : like you talk to it . can i have channel five ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : it it 's just a remote that talks to you . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : uh . i mean to certain cues . marketing : oh , then forget about it . oh right okay . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay , so i 'll go back , maybe , to the previous slide and we can decide for each problem , what we should choose . so for the energy source , do we go for the battery or the user interface : 'kay . yeah , i 'm fine with the basic battery . project manager : basic battery . it 's cheap , it 's cheerful , it 's worked , does work . industrial designer : cheaper option . are you happy with that ? marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : okay . so we 'll go for the battery . then the case , do you want it flat or curved or sing or double curved ? project manager : we were go we were going with the late with the the r_s_i_ rubber , were n't we ? user interface : yeah , so we want it rub rubber double curved . project manager : the the marketing : so it will look like something like this . industrial designer : double ? project manager : the double whopper , please . industrial designer : okay , so then if we use double curved case , then we have to u choose rubber push-buttons , project manager : yep , but we 're going for the simple buttons . user interface : so rubber rubber keys , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and that 's fine ? project manager : and it 's cheapest all round , it sounds kinda funky , and we can also market it user interface : yeah . project manager : as i 'cause we were s saying earl you were saying earlier in your research that um the the people have the r_ people were getting the complaining about r_s_i_ , and this is anti-r_s_i_ . marketing : . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so that 's another marketing point that we can use . marketing : well the rubber push-buttons . do n't you have to move your project manager : but anything is gon na have buttons . even if it 's a jog wheel , it 's still repetitive . you industrial designer : i thought they would give an option of flat buttons or a project manager : you see , you can still get it does you still get repetitive strain injury , whether you are pressing a button or pressing a flat bit of screen . industrial designer : that they do n't . project manager : it 's the v it 's the fact that you are pressing the same doing the same movement . user interface : . project manager : it 's not actually what you are doing . industrial designer : project manager : but the fact that this this rubber i is actually used in these anti-r_s_i_ ps specific user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , the rubber 's good . user interface : we 're giving them a way to burn off steam , basically , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , so they can sit there and go like user interface : not that watching tv should be that stressful . project manager : and you know , yeah , you can fuzz it across the room and throw it at throw it at your children yeah . marketing : user interface : oh yeah , i guess tv can be stressful , yeah , if you 're watching sports . marketing : industrial designer : alright , that 's me done . project manager : okay , gabriel . let 's um let 's let 's hear from you about the um it 's the interface . user interface : alright . alright . yeah , some of what i have to say ties into what catherine was just talking about . project manager : great . industrial designer : sorry . user interface : okay , so i 'm continuing with the user interface uh topic . and so basically i consulted with our manufacturing division . it sounded like catherine was also speaking with them . uh i also took uh reissa 's marketing findings from the last meeting into consideration um , 'cause i think that 's that 's crucial as far as uh what keys we 're going to inc inclu what buttons we are going to include and and how they 're laid out . uh and so the manufacturing division uh sent some some samples of of uh interface components that we might be interested in using that have been used in other products , uh like the coffee machine . so i already mentioned the speech recognition interface . marketing : user interface : i guess , we we basically vetoed that idea . it 's it 's pointless . uh it 's just a sample sensor sample output . it would just be probably the most expensive part of our remote without any actual interesting functionality as far as operating the tv . uh so yeah , they they also give the uh they they suggested the idea of using a spinning wheel like you use on the side of an m_p_ three player like ipod . um so we 've already addressed that and i think that would actually be worse for something like r_s_i_ i mean you got that thumb movement that you 're constantly doing . project manager : yeah . user interface : um the other suggestion , marketing : that does get annoying . user interface : and i i have a feeling that we 're interested in in something more general , but they suggested uh , you know , going i a little bit into a a niche , like either gearing our remote towards kids , where you could have lot of colours um , the keys might be you know , funny or or , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : or uh something for the elderly , where the remote 's very large and the buttons are very large and there 's only a few buttons . but you know we can we can discuss this , but it sounded like from our last meeting we really wanted something that was general , but done well . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh um so , the key layout and design are really crucial . you do n't want uh you want people to be able to quickly access the buttons that they use a lot without uh always pressing the wrong one um . and i did n't mention that we need a power button in our last i can give you an example here of uh , good layout and bad layout industrial designer : user interface : uh from our manufacturing department . so this would be an example of bad layout , where you have volume up and volume down , but they have a v_ on both of them , so uh project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : it 's sort of confusing for the user . uh this is the example of the giant remote that 's impossible to lose . project manager : do we have an uh example of a good one ? brilliant . industrial designer : marketing : uh-huh . well user interface : and for something for kids . yeah . um . project manager : yeah . user interface : and so , yeah , i th i think my personal preferences of we 've all kind of talked about and seemed to be on the same page um . uh so i was against the speech recognition and against going uh towards anything in in a niche sense . i think it should be more general . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i did n't i did n't think the spinning-wheel or the uh l_c_ display were were crucial for us . and , yeah , that 's it for me . project manager : okay . well let 's um so w what are our definite decisions on this then as a team ? the um the the um the interface type we 're going for user interface : so we 're we 're not gon na have any sort of display i think uh . project manager : just the simple s simple straight set of buttons . user interface : so , yeah , it 's just gon na be just gon na be push-buttons . um . i think we shall have a limited number of buttons , project manager : yeah . user interface : ideally , i mean a a power , channel up , channel down , volume up , volume down , and a numerical keypad . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh . and some sort of it will either have a a lock button like we mentioned or or a cover or something like that . project manager : yeah . user interface : i guess it 's to the point where we need to decide about that . project manager : okay , and we 're not yeah . user interface : well now that we 've decided on our project manager : are we gon na hav hav an are we d marketing : project manager : have we decided on whether w we 're gon na s supplement it with anything , you know , colours or particular gimmicky bits to it , we 're not we 're just gon na go for something user interface : um it seems like we would n't wan na make it too busy and too sort of gaudy , project manager : we 're marketing : maybe we can user interface : but um yeah , i would say mayb maybe a couple of colours like uh like a black with with yellow and somewhere , like maybe the r_r_ can be yellow , or something like that . project manager : yeah . yeah . okay . okey-dokey . yeah , i do n't have any other questions on this . let 's move over to user interface : i i guess the fact uh also that we are having a rubber case uh would prevent us from having the cover function that we thought of before . project manager : yeah , sure . user interface : i mean , 'cause uh s so if we wan na have a lock of some sort it would have to be a button . project manager : . user interface : but i think that should be i mean um , i can speak with the button department , but uh i think that it should be easy to have a button that just prevents prevents the other uh the other buttons from operating . project manager : yeah , the button that just does that , yeah . user interface : so that should be simple . project manager : cool . marketing : right . well , i 'm just basically letting you know what 's happening in the markets project manager : mm yeah . marketing : and what the fashions are for next year . um . so yes , so from looking at this year 's trends and fashions project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and also recent investigation that we 've done in the remote control market , we have found that for the remote control market these are like most important aspects like that we really need to project manager : marketing : which we 've already probably discussed . um the most important aspect is look and feel . so the remote control has to look and feel fancier than the ones that already that we already have . so it has to be project manager : yeah , why should people buy this when they 're already got a remote that came with the tv ? marketing : exactly . user interface : yeah . marketing : um second , uh it should be technologically innovative innovative . so project manager : what 's that mean ? marketing : technologically it should be like um work , basically , i guess . it should work . user interface : well it should be it should be maybe cutting edge in some sense , marketing : should user interface : i mean have something that 's little more technologically advanced than what 's on the market . marketing : that 's new . project manager : okay , now the trouble is is we 've already decided that we 're going with the stuff that works already , that 's cheap . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . actually , i mean , these first two points we 've already sort of gone away from , marketing : yeah . user interface : 'cause our rubber one is not fancy project manager : yeah . user interface : i mean it 's different , but i would n't say like a rubber remote is fancy . if that 's what people want then we maybe we 're going in the wrong direction . and it 's it 's not technologically innovative either . project manager : maybe we could um marketing : so , no loose that 's why i was thinking , bluetooth , 'cause if you like put up bluetooth , and it 's like a bluetooth remote control , everybody 's gon na like , oh , 'cause bluetooth is the in thing nowadays , like it really is , like people and um when it comes to marketing like that 's what people go for , they do n't really care whether , you know , at the end of the day whether it works properly or not . project manager : of course , they do . marketing : well , they do , but it 's like it 's not project manager : one hundred per cent , that 's your first thing , you go , oh i 'm not gon na buy that , 'cause i dunno if it works or not . marketing : yeah , but it looks good . if it looks good and it 's it can just be there for decoration . project manager : okay , well , what do you two think about this ? user interface : so is is the advantage of bluetooth that you can just like synchronise it with other marketing : but like project manager : yeah , what i do n't understand what m user interface : electronics ? marketing : you could always insert , yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's basically what it allows you to do , project manager : yeah , user interface : right ? project manager : and it this is just gon na all this is being used for is your television . marketing : yeah , but , i mean , people like project manager : it would that would mean you 'd need a television that has bluetooth in it , which no no television does , marketing : well , if you 're looking at if you looking at something that 's going to be bought by people , you have to make it new , you have to make it state of the art . industrial designer : well project manager : does it ? that would mean we 'd have to make a television as well . industrial designer : bluetooth would , for example , enable you , i think , to um um connect for example you if you get a w call on your mobile phone , but your mobile phone is downstairs or something , you would get on your television you 're being called by this person right now . things like that . project manager : no , that would be your telephone in with your television . user interface : yeah , the that would n't be the remote so much , project manager : yeah , user interface : i mean industrial designer : no , but if you get bluetooth on the remote , you 'd be able to project manager : nah , the televi the television would have to be a bluetooth compatible , basically . industrial designer : i with the television , yeah . i was just trying to find an advantage . wha what w what advantage would you get for the marketing : well , it does n't project manager : an and there is no there is no such thing marketing : like it does n't have to be , you know , bluetooth , that was just an idea , but like it needs do something that , you know , is new . whether it 's a battery it could be something really really minor , you know , like but i think we are really keeping to what is already out there , and people 've already seen it , people 've already got it . project manager : okay . marketing : if we want something new , we need to move away from what we already have and um just go creative . industrial designer : maybe the kinetic mo provision of energy then . it 's been done for watches , but i have n't seen that for remotes , yet . project manager : okay . yeah , this that 's that 's very good . marketing : and then you can market it . never have to change a battery again . industrial designer : change the batteries ever again . project manager : and and this is all tying in very nicely . marketing : project manager : the fact that it 's made out of this rubber , we can throw it about . th we should encourage people to throw their remote controls about , because it charges itself up by doing it . industrial designer : yeah , well , and in little characters you say , yeah , but not too much . user interface : yes , so can project manager : but yeah , by the squeezing it the marketing : i think , safety s user interface : yeah , we can make the squeezing of the rubber be the be the generating like the energy generator . project manager : yeah , that 's a great idea . well done . marketing : yeah . third most important aspect uh is it 's easy to use . user interface : we 're all about that . marketing : and i think we 've all um worked that out . um okay , in the fashion , how it 's supposed to look . next year 's fashion i very much in fruit and vegetables are thm are like the theme for cloths , shoes and furniture . so next year people will be buying , i found this really funny , you know , strawberry shaped chairs , industrial designer : user interface : okay , so we could have keys that are like a b like a broccoli key and a uh and an avocado key on them . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : i wan na watch the pineapple channel . marketing : rubber things . um and as it 's rubber the feel which is in this year is spongy , so it 's it 's not quite spongy , but spongy , i would say is user interface : . project manager : well spongy , that 's where . yeah , we 're we 're ahead of the game there . user interface : yeah , that 's great for us . marketing : yeah , so we 're in . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . and so personal what i was just saying like move away from the current remote controls uh like the look and the feel of the current ones and change the look and feel , while still keeping to the company 's image , basically . so yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : . i had to say user interface : right . marketing : so we 're moving in the right direction like project manager : alright , yeah , no , this i this is good , user interface : yeah . project manager : so through all that we 've we go we 're right , we 're gon na go go back to um going with the kinetic thing , industrial designer : yep . user interface : yeah , that 's great . project manager : that 's great , using the spongy rubber that we were talking about that anti-r_s_i_ you can as you squeeze it you are not only therapeuticising yourself , you are charging the batteries , marketing : mm . project manager : and um i 'm not sure about the buttons being in the shape of fruit though . industrial designer : no vegetables . marketing : user interface : yeah , i do n't know how we incorporate project manager : . marketing : user interface : we do n't have to follow every trend , i guess . marketing : maybe make it like fruity colours or something . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : some sort . or user interface : the power button could be like a big apple or something . industrial designer : well yeah , but apple would sue you for that . marketing : project manager : yeah , this is true . user interface : they don they do n't own all images of apples . project manager : industrial designer : sued the beatles so user interface : okay , we 'll make it a uh pomegranate , a big pomegranate . industrial designer : project manager : well , okay , it seems like the only thing that we have n't really finally um agreed on is its image . like , yeah , we 're we 're saying no we do n't want it to be fruit and vegetables , but we dunno what it should be , user interface : . project manager : or like are we going yeah it looks slick , but what do what do we mean by slick sort of thing ? marketing : well i think , if it 's rubber it needs to be project manager : i mean you said earlier on i it should be funky . marketing : different . i think , it 's it should be i mean , what do you associate with rubber ? you know like project manager : l keep it clean , keep it clean . marketing : really different colours basically . industrial designer : marketing : okay , sor i sorry , i used the wrong word , what do you associate with the mate the material that material ? um industrial designer : marketing : um like i 'm just thinking bright colours . user interface : yeah . marketing : bright natural colours , nothing too project manager : bright , but not too bright . marketing : bright , but too not yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : like no lime green or bright yellow or bright pink . wan na make it different colours so anybody can choo like like project manager : like the volume buttons should be the all the same colour and the d and the the channel buttons should be one colour and stuff like that , do you mean ? marketing : yeah . and on the back of it have the logo . project manager : okay , what ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : sure . industrial designer : why not ? project manager : okay . tha user interface : the one thing i 'm wondering about , i hope that we 're not going like too much down a gimmicky road of of having project manager : yeah , i mean we that 's we we user interface : i mean if somebody go goes into the store they 're gon na see like three or four normal remotes , and then a big spongy pink t tomato uh remote . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : this is the remote control tomato . user interface : i mean what are ninety per cent of people gon na take ? marketing : well i can say in this country , you 'll get , you know , lots of people wanting something really funky and cool . like and kids will be walking in with their parents saying , mummy i wan na buy that one . project manager : marketing : and uh parents will see the will see the pro as well , because it 's um like kids wo n't break it , it 's not breakable if you throw it around . project manager : yeah . marketing : especially with younger kids , you know they can pick it up and and yeah . the only thing is is that really small kids might chew on it , but project manager : well , it 's it 's got ta be chew proof . user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : i 'm gon na write that down . marketing : so user interface : marketing : so it 's rea it 's quite project manager : marketing : it 's quite like um user friendly industrial designer : marketing : and also for different families , like like family use as well , so for little kids and for old ki like teenagers will like it , i think . especially maybe younger girls if it 's in pink they 'll be like pink remote control for their room something . project manager : so , what are you saying , maybe we should market it in different colours for different marketing : yeah . project manager : so we could do like the pink range , the blue range , the green range , the industrial designer : that 's yeah . marketing : so like you walk in , you 're like , oh i like that remote control , because it 's so bright , and then , and then the shop assistant comes up and says , oh what colour would you like ? and then they go like , oh i can choose the colour wow . so it puts , i think , even the customer into more control over what they 're buying instead of , you 've got all colour it 's either that or nothing . so they also get to pick . well , personally i like walking into a shop and choosing a colour . user interface : yeah i mean , that that seems to work well with for products like ipod , marketing : it 's um user interface : where , you know , you have a variety of colours , that people feel like they 're customising it when they buy it , even , you know , just just by the fact of choosing . marketing : yeah . mm . industrial designer : although i 'd be curious to see how many uh marketing : d you 've got the industrial designer : you know , there are some colours that i wouldn i would never choose , and i would be curious how many people choose that colour . project manager : well that 's that can be down to bit of market researching you know , user interface : right . project manager : if that 's easy enough to find out what colours are more popular . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and produce less of the silly colours , maybe . project manager : okay . alright . well um , we 'll alright let 's what we 're gon na aim to get together by the next meeting then um is from you catherine wi your y y you know you 're gon na be working on the the look and feel design . um gabriel , you 're gon na be working on , you know come up with the the user interface design . then basically , you two are gon na be working together on this . you wo n't be going off to your separate offices . industrial designer : alright . user interface : okay . project manager : um and i think you are gon na get a chance to play with some clay . user interface : oh right . project manager : i think , yeah , it 's gon na you know , come up ki you know , be ab for the next meeting be able to come in and show us some some i some physical ideas . 'cause at the moment , uh you know , it 's it 's hard . industrial designer : cool . project manager : we were kinda going , yeah , it 's got ta feel nice , it 's got ta look cool and that it 's industrial designer : it is . user interface : yeah . project manager : you know now we can actually start , you know , s some sort of physical something or other . user interface : that sounds good . project manager : um and you 're gon na be working on the product evaluation . marketing : evaluation . project manager : um . and i will be uh industrial designer : marketing : project manager : talking to the bosses , basically , and uh marketing : project manager : f fielding off some more spam and uh industrial designer : great . project manager : that 's it really . keeping things t well , uh you know , ho hopefully uh keeping things together . um . yeah , that 's this is this is uh good . so we know for definite we know we 've we 've now got some definite things going on . we definitely know how it 's powered , we definitely know that um it 's gon na be a simple buttons , we 're not gon na be going for the new technological chip on print expensive things , so we 've we 're keeping the costs down . it 's this rubber casing that we can sell as um fun and funky . do n't know of any other remote controls that are made out of this stuff . people , you know , people are saying , oh , standard stuff gives you repetitive strain injury , well this remote control is designed to do the complete opposite , marketing : yeah . project manager : it 's supposed to fix it rather than cause it . um . you know , we 're gon na we we 're gon na as a sort of extra something on it , you know what what extra things are there extra things this product have ? we 'll look into this lock key user interface : right . project manager : facility , although whether or not it happens , or is possible , i do n't know , but something to look into . okay . i think that 's um well done everybody . anyone have any uh any questions , user interface : alright . project manager : everyone know what they 're doing ? 'cause if you do n't , you 'll i 'm sure you 'll soon get an e-mail about it . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . marketing : user interface : mm , i think we all know what we need to do now . marketing : s this gives you all the details ? project manager : okay . right well . user interface : okay . project manager : it 's um we 're we 've still couple of minutes until our meeting 's due to finish . but um i got a note saying that you two who are gon na be working together marketing : project manager : so bef before you all disappear off just user interface : okay , i 'll stay in here . marketing : um . user interface : project manager : hold hold fire . um . user interface : does the pay-raise immediately come into effect on our next pay-check , or is that project manager : um i think , it 's uh , yeah , i think , it 's gon na be par part more of a profit sharing on the product . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : so we 're buying fut i mean , we 're getting futures in the company . project manager : yeah , i think i i think that 's i think that 's the way it 's gon na happen at the moment . user interface : so we really have a incentive to make this remote work . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : i 'd like to share in the coffee machine profits , because that 's really doing well . project manager : i want a share in the space rocket . did you see that this k that this company we 've made a spaceship . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . . marketing : yeah . user interface : this company has its its fingers in a lot of different pots . marketing : project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah , we 're definitely not in the money making department . marketing : project manager : . user interface : well i i did notice looking at i mean , they told you that they wanted whatev our product to represent the the r_r_ brand and and to be immediately noticeable . project manager : yeah . user interface : i mean , if you look like at the coffee maker at the at the corporate web page , it 's not obvious . r_r_ . well it is to us , because we we worked worked here for years and we use that coffee machine , but it 's does n't have the colour scheme of of the of the company anywhere on it obviously it 's just sil silver and black . industrial designer : that 's true . project manager : and the spaceship does n't have the r_ have a massive r_ and r_ down the side of it industrial designer : does n't project manager : but i still want one . user interface : mm . project manager : okay . um i 've just had a sign flashing up saying , finish the meeting . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh . user interface : okay . project manager : yeah . user interface : right , well , i guess that 's us . project manager : yeah . it 's not telling it 's not saying do anything in particular just yet . so maybe you should go back to your own offices . user interface : okay . right . industrial designer : are we taking these off ? </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about industrial designer 's presentation on energy source and case material design of the remote control ? </s> industrial designer : um so um for the energy sources we can have a basic battery , a hand dynamo which is which was used uh in the fifties for torches , if you remember that kind of which would n't be v would n't be v v project manager : i do n't think any of us remember the fifties . user interface : is it like a crank thing or something . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . it would n't be very fancy . marketing : industrial designer : you can have a kinetic provision of energy , which is used on some watches these days . so if you have just a bit of gentle movement that it will give it the energy to work . or you can use solar cells , but i 'm not sure about that indoors , really , but user interface : well , there 's sometimes combinations , i mean , like calculators do combinations of battery with but also using some solar power . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : do sol solar panel things , do they have to work from the sun or can they work from a light bulb ? does anybody know ? industrial designer : i dunno actually . user interface : uh i think , it has to be on the on the solar energy , but i do n't know . industrial designer : i dunno . um . think the the uh what would cost the less would be the basic battery , really . project manager : okay . industrial designer : and uh if we want something fancier , i think the kinetic provision of energy could be nice , but i do n't know if it 's worth the cost . so we 've got to discuss that . project manager : mm . okay , jolly good . industrial designer : for the case of the remotes itself , um they can be a general case , which is just a flat one . you can have uh a curved one or a double curved one , if you know what i mean , so project manager : what 's a double curved one ? industrial designer : you know , kind of more ergonomic , that kind of suits the palm of your hand , that kind of thing . project manager : okay . industrial designer : so um then the case material itself , so it can be uh uh either plastic or latex , uh rubber , wood , or titanium . and th for each of them you have uh cases where for example titanium , you ca n't use it for if you if we 're choosing a double curved case , we ca n't choose titanium . and if we are choosing um solar cells then we ca n't choose latex for the case material , so we just have to take that into account . but if we 're choosing just the flat case then we can go for anything . and i think we discussed earlier on the r_ s_ i_ problem thing , so we could uh project manager : so that might be an idea of using the rubber , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : but then it should , you know user interface : let 's have a squeezable remote . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . and also it does n't break as easily maybe , project manager : when a tv programme 's got one industrial designer : i dunno user interface : project manager : watching the match and your team 's just lost , you can fuzz it across the room and it 'll bounce off the wall back at you . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah , i like that idea . industrial designer : so rubber would be okay . marketing : i think rubber 's project manager : rubber , we 're all we 're all going we 're all liking that idea ? you think you can market that ? marketing : but after my after my fashion thing , i think you 'll realise that rubber is more project manager : ooh , we like rubber , ooh . industrial designer : uh s so if d marketing : people . industrial designer : okay . and then there are the push-buttons , so you can have basic push-buttons or a scroll-wheels , like you have on a mouse , um or you could have um lcd , which gives you a display . um scroll buttons , as well . project manager : uh-huh . industrial designer : so if you use a rubber double curved case , you must use rubber push-buttons . so if we 're going for rubber then we have to decide for the case . um and if we choose double curved then we have to go for rubber push-buttons . project manager : well , we 're gon na go with i think we 've decided that it 's gon na be a rubber case so industrial designer : so it 's a constraint . yeah , but is it a double curved one or not ? if it 's not a double curved , then we 've got the choice for the push-buttons , if it 's a double curve , we 've got ta go for rubber push-buttons . if that makes sense . project manager : push buttons instead of the wheel ? industrial designer : yeah . . user interface : if it 's rubber , is n't it malleable anyway , it does n't matter if it 's double i mean is n't a rubber case , mean it 's completely flexed , i mean , it it flexes to whatever they want it to ? mean so what 's the difference between a normal rubber case and a rubble doub double rubber double curved case ? project manager : rubble double double . industrial designer : no , but na le you see , you 've got , okay , the energy that 's one thing , project manager : i 'll have a big mac , please . industrial designer : then you have the case is uh , whether it 's flat or curved . and that 's we do n't care if it 's rub rubber or not , but then we 've decided that we going for rubber for the case material . so if we 've chosen rub rubber and if now we have the choice for the case whether it 's flat , single curved or double curved . and i 'm just saying if it if we choose it to be double curved then we need to go i dunno why , but we need to go for uh rubber push-buttons . so , either user interface : okay . industrial designer : i dunno we just need to decide on the on the case . project manager : let 's have rubber push buttons , hey . user interface : okay . go rubber . go rubber the whole way . industrial designer : let 's go crazy . and then , do i have a last slide ? yes , i do . um so the push-buttons themselves they can be just simple or they can be so that 's just the electronics between the but behind the push-buttons . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : um and the price that go with it with it , so the simple push-buttons are gon na be the cheapest . uh if we get a scroll-wheel , that 's a higher price range . if we get an advanced chip which is um used for the lcd , the display thing , then that 's even more expensive . project manager : simple , yeah . chip on print . it 's a bit . okay , uh what i 'm not understanding here is uh , okay , advanced chip on print , which i presume is like one p_c_b_ and that 's got all the electronics on one board including the um infra-red sender ? industrial designer : . yeah . marketing : industrial designer : the infra-red . yeah . project manager : right . um what a what alternatives do we have to that ? y um what alternatives do we have to the chip on print ? industrial designer : well , if if it 's not chip on print then , i guess , you get different chip components , and you build them separately and does n't include the infra-red . it 's less expensive mm project manager : so it sounds industrial designer : technically speaking , it 's not as advanced , but it does the job , too . project manager : so , why would we not go for that ? if it 's something that 's inside the the unit . i it does n't affects whether the customer 's gon na buy it or not . industrial designer : fo it does n't , yeah , yeah , yeah . totally . yeah . project manager : um we wan na go for an i i all industrial designer : so let 's not go for the project manager : so long as it works , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . i agree . project manager : you know . so let 's not let 's uh not bother with the chip on print . industrial designer : so it 's either um the scroll-wheel or the push-buttons . project manager : yeah . s yeah , push buttons . marketing : what about the just developed uh sample sensor ? user interface : i think push-buttons is project manager : what about what ? marketing : g there , the sample sensor , sample speaker thing . industrial designer : well project manager : well , what do we need a speaker for in a remote control unit ? marketing : mm , i dunno . be cool . industrial designer : it 'd be it 'd be cool , but they are saying they 've just developed it , user interface : yeah . marketing : channel two . industrial designer : i 'm just guessing . but it 's gon na be the most expensive option , probably and user interface : th the the speech recognition um option is it does n't seem really very promising for us uh , project manager : yeah . it 's not something that we wan na t go into with this product . user interface : 'cause uh the yeah the example that they 're already using it for is with the coffee machine , where , basically , you can program a sample wi um that when you say something it will give a response , and you program the response as well . just uh clips of tha that you record yourself . so you can program your coffee-maker that when you say , good morning , to it it says , hello rick , or whatever . project manager : yeah . user interface : but , i mean , it 's not it would be one thing if it was speech recognition where you say something and it turns the tv on like , turn the tv on , and i turns comes on , but it 's not that . it just gives you a it just gives you a verbal response . marketing : oh , it just gives an answer . user interface : so , yeah , i mean , like what 's the point of saying , hello remote , i mean , hello , how how are you ? marketing : oh , then then project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : just if you are really lonely , maybe . marketing : i thought i thought it was when they said user interface : yeah , if you 're really lonely , it is it 's marketing : i thought when they said , voice recognition , they meant um like , industrial designer : channel five . and then it switches on . marketing : channel five , and it will change . user interface : no , tha that w that w that would be more promising . marketing : like you talk to it . can i have channel five ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : it it 's just a remote that talks to you . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : uh . i mean to certain cues . marketing : oh , then forget about it . oh right okay . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : okay , so i 'll go back , maybe , to the previous slide and we can decide for each problem , what we should choose . so for the energy source , do we go for the battery or the user interface : 'kay . yeah , i 'm fine with the basic battery . project manager : basic battery . it 's cheap , it 's cheerful , it 's worked , does work . industrial designer : cheaper option . are you happy with that ? marketing : mm . yeah . industrial designer : okay . so we 'll go for the battery . then the case , do you want it flat or curved or sing or double curved ? project manager : we were go we were going with the late with the the r_s_i_ rubber , were n't we ? user interface : yeah , so we want it rub rubber double curved . project manager : the the marketing : so it will look like something like this . industrial designer : double ? project manager : the double whopper , please . industrial designer : okay , so then if we use double curved case , then we have to u choose rubber push-buttons , project manager : yep , but we 're going for the simple buttons . user interface : so rubber rubber keys , yeah . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : and that 's fine ? project manager : and it 's cheapest all round , it sounds kinda funky , and we can also market it user interface : yeah . project manager : as i 'cause we were s saying earl you were saying earlier in your research that um the the people have the r_ people were getting the complaining about r_s_i_ , and this is anti-r_s_i_ . marketing : . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : so that 's another marketing point that we can use . marketing : well the rubber push-buttons . do n't you have to move your project manager : but anything is gon na have buttons . even if it 's a jog wheel , it 's still repetitive . you industrial designer : i thought they would give an option of flat buttons or a project manager : you see , you can still get it does you still get repetitive strain injury , whether you are pressing a button or pressing a flat bit of screen . industrial designer : that they do n't . project manager : it 's the v it 's the fact that you are pressing the same doing the same movement . user interface : . project manager : it 's not actually what you are doing . industrial designer : project manager : but the fact that this this rubber i is actually used in these anti-r_s_i_ ps specific user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah , the rubber 's good . user interface : we 're giving them a way to burn off steam , basically , yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah , so they can sit there and go like user interface : not that watching tv should be that stressful . project manager : and you know , yeah , you can fuzz it across the room and throw it at throw it at your children yeah . marketing : user interface : oh yeah , i guess tv can be stressful , yeah , if you 're watching sports . marketing : </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the sample sensor ? </s> marketing : what about the just developed uh sample sensor ? user interface : i think push-buttons is project manager : what about what ? marketing : g there , the sample sensor , sample speaker thing . industrial designer : well project manager : well , what do we need a speaker for in a remote control unit ? marketing : mm , i dunno . be cool . industrial designer : it 'd be it 'd be cool , but they are saying they 've just developed it , user interface : yeah . marketing : channel two . industrial designer : i 'm just guessing . but it 's gon na be the most expensive option , probably and user interface : th the the speech recognition um option is it does n't seem really very promising for us uh , project manager : yeah . it 's not something that we wan na t go into with this product . user interface : 'cause uh the yeah the example that they 're already using it for is with the coffee machine , where , basically , you can program a sample wi um that when you say something it will give a response , and you program the response as well . just uh clips of tha that you record yourself . so you can program your coffee-maker that when you say , good morning , to it it says , hello rick , or whatever . project manager : yeah . user interface : but , i mean , it 's not it would be one thing if it was speech recognition where you say something and it turns the tv on like , turn the tv on , and i turns comes on , but it 's not that . it just gives you a it just gives you a verbal response . marketing : oh , it just gives an answer . user interface : so , yeah , i mean , like what 's the point of saying , hello remote , i mean , hello , how how are you ? marketing : oh , then then project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : just if you are really lonely , maybe . marketing : i thought i thought it was when they said user interface : yeah , if you 're really lonely , it is it 's marketing : i thought when they said , voice recognition , they meant um like , industrial designer : channel five . and then it switches on . marketing : channel five , and it will change . user interface : no , tha that w that w that would be more promising . marketing : like you talk to it . can i have channel five ? project manager : yeah . industrial designer : user interface : it it 's just a remote that talks to you . project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : uh . i mean to certain cues . marketing : oh , then forget about it . oh right okay . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about user interface 's presentation on buttons , the layout design , and the color of the remote control ? </s> project manager : okay , gabriel . let 's um let 's let 's hear from you about the um it 's the interface . user interface : alright . alright . yeah , some of what i have to say ties into what catherine was just talking about . project manager : great . industrial designer : sorry . user interface : okay , so i 'm continuing with the user interface uh topic . and so basically i consulted with our manufacturing division . it sounded like catherine was also speaking with them . uh i also took uh reissa 's marketing findings from the last meeting into consideration um , 'cause i think that 's that 's crucial as far as uh what keys we 're going to inc inclu what buttons we are going to include and and how they 're laid out . uh and so the manufacturing division uh sent some some samples of of uh interface components that we might be interested in using that have been used in other products , uh like the coffee machine . so i already mentioned the speech recognition interface . marketing : user interface : i guess , we we basically vetoed that idea . it 's it 's pointless . uh it 's just a sample sensor sample output . it would just be probably the most expensive part of our remote without any actual interesting functionality as far as operating the tv . uh so yeah , they they also give the uh they they suggested the idea of using a spinning wheel like you use on the side of an m_p_ three player like ipod . um so we 've already addressed that and i think that would actually be worse for something like r_s_i_ i mean you got that thumb movement that you 're constantly doing . project manager : yeah . user interface : um the other suggestion , marketing : that does get annoying . user interface : and i i have a feeling that we 're interested in in something more general , but they suggested uh , you know , going i a little bit into a a niche , like either gearing our remote towards kids , where you could have lot of colours um , the keys might be you know , funny or or , project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : or uh something for the elderly , where the remote 's very large and the buttons are very large and there 's only a few buttons . but you know we can we can discuss this , but it sounded like from our last meeting we really wanted something that was general , but done well . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh um so , the key layout and design are really crucial . you do n't want uh you want people to be able to quickly access the buttons that they use a lot without uh always pressing the wrong one um . and i did n't mention that we need a power button in our last i can give you an example here of uh , good layout and bad layout industrial designer : user interface : uh from our manufacturing department . so this would be an example of bad layout , where you have volume up and volume down , but they have a v_ on both of them , so uh project manager : yeah . yeah . user interface : it 's sort of confusing for the user . uh this is the example of the giant remote that 's impossible to lose . project manager : do we have an uh example of a good one ? brilliant . industrial designer : marketing : uh-huh . well user interface : and for something for kids . yeah . um . project manager : yeah . user interface : and so , yeah , i th i think my personal preferences of we 've all kind of talked about and seemed to be on the same page um . uh so i was against the speech recognition and against going uh towards anything in in a niche sense . i think it should be more general . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : i did n't i did n't think the spinning-wheel or the uh l_c_ display were were crucial for us . and , yeah , that 's it for me . project manager : okay . well let 's um so w what are our definite decisions on this then as a team ? the um the the um the interface type we 're going for user interface : so we 're we 're not gon na have any sort of display i think uh . project manager : just the simple s simple straight set of buttons . user interface : so , yeah , it 's just gon na be just gon na be push-buttons . um . i think we shall have a limited number of buttons , project manager : yeah . user interface : ideally , i mean a a power , channel up , channel down , volume up , volume down , and a numerical keypad . project manager : yeah . user interface : uh . and some sort of it will either have a a lock button like we mentioned or or a cover or something like that . project manager : yeah . user interface : i guess it 's to the point where we need to decide about that . project manager : okay , and we 're not yeah . user interface : well now that we 've decided on our project manager : are we gon na hav hav an are we d marketing : project manager : have we decided on whether w we 're gon na s supplement it with anything , you know , colours or particular gimmicky bits to it , we 're not we 're just gon na go for something user interface : um it seems like we would n't wan na make it too busy and too sort of gaudy , project manager : we 're marketing : maybe we can user interface : but um yeah , i would say mayb maybe a couple of colours like uh like a black with with yellow and somewhere , like maybe the r_r_ can be yellow , or something like that . project manager : yeah . yeah . okay . okey-dokey . yeah , i do n't have any other questions on this . let 's move over to user interface : i i guess the fact uh also that we are having a rubber case uh would prevent us from having the cover function that we thought of before . project manager : yeah , sure . user interface : i mean , 'cause uh s so if we wan na have a lock of some sort it would have to be a button . project manager : . user interface : but i think that should be i mean um , i can speak with the button department , but uh i think that it should be easy to have a button that just prevents prevents the other uh the other buttons from operating . project manager : yeah , the button that just does that , yeah . user interface : so that should be simple . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about marketing 's presentation on three important marketing points that the team should pay attention to ? </s> marketing : right . well , i 'm just basically letting you know what 's happening in the markets project manager : mm yeah . marketing : and what the fashions are for next year . um . so yes , so from looking at this year 's trends and fashions project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and also recent investigation that we 've done in the remote control market , we have found that for the remote control market these are like most important aspects like that we really need to project manager : marketing : which we 've already probably discussed . um the most important aspect is look and feel . so the remote control has to look and feel fancier than the ones that already that we already have . so it has to be project manager : yeah , why should people buy this when they 're already got a remote that came with the tv ? marketing : exactly . user interface : yeah . marketing : um second , uh it should be technologically innovative innovative . so project manager : what 's that mean ? marketing : technologically it should be like um work , basically , i guess . it should work . user interface : well it should be it should be maybe cutting edge in some sense , marketing : should user interface : i mean have something that 's little more technologically advanced than what 's on the market . marketing : that 's new . project manager : okay , now the trouble is is we 've already decided that we 're going with the stuff that works already , that 's cheap . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . yeah . actually , i mean , these first two points we 've already sort of gone away from , marketing : yeah . user interface : 'cause our rubber one is not fancy project manager : yeah . user interface : i mean it 's different , but i would n't say like a rubber remote is fancy . if that 's what people want then we maybe we 're going in the wrong direction . and it 's it 's not technologically innovative either . project manager : maybe we could um marketing : so , no loose that 's why i was thinking , bluetooth , 'cause if you like put up bluetooth , and it 's like a bluetooth remote control , everybody 's gon na like , oh , 'cause bluetooth is the in thing nowadays , like it really is , like people and um when it comes to marketing like that 's what people go for , they do n't really care whether , you know , at the end of the day whether it works properly or not . project manager : of course , they do . marketing : well , they do , but it 's like it 's not project manager : one hundred per cent , that 's your first thing , you go , oh i 'm not gon na buy that , 'cause i dunno if it works or not . marketing : yeah , but it looks good . if it looks good and it 's it can just be there for decoration . project manager : okay , well , what do you two think about this ? user interface : so is is the advantage of bluetooth that you can just like synchronise it with other marketing : but like project manager : yeah , what i do n't understand what m user interface : electronics ? marketing : you could always insert , yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's basically what it allows you to do , project manager : yeah , user interface : right ? project manager : and it this is just gon na all this is being used for is your television . marketing : yeah , but , i mean , people like project manager : it would that would mean you 'd need a television that has bluetooth in it , which no no television does , marketing : well , if you 're looking at if you looking at something that 's going to be bought by people , you have to make it new , you have to make it state of the art . industrial designer : well project manager : does it ? that would mean we 'd have to make a television as well . industrial designer : bluetooth would , for example , enable you , i think , to um um connect for example you if you get a w call on your mobile phone , but your mobile phone is downstairs or something , you would get on your television you 're being called by this person right now . things like that . project manager : no , that would be your telephone in with your television . user interface : yeah , the that would n't be the remote so much , project manager : yeah , user interface : i mean industrial designer : no , but if you get bluetooth on the remote , you 'd be able to project manager : nah , the televi the television would have to be a bluetooth compatible , basically . industrial designer : i with the television , yeah . i was just trying to find an advantage . wha what w what advantage would you get for the marketing : well , it does n't project manager : an and there is no there is no such thing marketing : like it does n't have to be , you know , bluetooth , that was just an idea , but like it needs do something that , you know , is new . whether it 's a battery it could be something really really minor , you know , like but i think we are really keeping to what is already out there , and people 've already seen it , people 've already got it . project manager : okay . marketing : if we want something new , we need to move away from what we already have and um just go creative . industrial designer : maybe the kinetic mo provision of energy then . it 's been done for watches , but i have n't seen that for remotes , yet . project manager : okay . yeah , this that 's that 's very good . marketing : and then you can market it . never have to change a battery again . industrial designer : change the batteries ever again . project manager : and and this is all tying in very nicely . marketing : project manager : the fact that it 's made out of this rubber , we can throw it about . th we should encourage people to throw their remote controls about , because it charges itself up by doing it . industrial designer : yeah , well , and in little characters you say , yeah , but not too much . user interface : yes , so can project manager : but yeah , by the squeezing it the marketing : i think , safety s user interface : yeah , we can make the squeezing of the rubber be the be the generating like the energy generator . project manager : yeah , that 's a great idea . well done . marketing : yeah . third most important aspect uh is it 's easy to use . user interface : we 're all about that . marketing : and i think we 've all um worked that out . um okay , in the fashion , how it 's supposed to look . next year 's fashion i very much in fruit and vegetables are thm are like the theme for cloths , shoes and furniture . so next year people will be buying , i found this really funny , you know , strawberry shaped chairs , industrial designer : user interface : okay , so we could have keys that are like a b like a broccoli key and a uh and an avocado key on them . project manager : yeah . marketing : yeah . project manager : i wan na watch the pineapple channel . marketing : rubber things . um and as it 's rubber the feel which is in this year is spongy , so it 's it 's not quite spongy , but spongy , i would say is user interface : . project manager : well spongy , that 's where . yeah , we 're we 're ahead of the game there . user interface : yeah , that 's great for us . marketing : yeah , so we 're in . industrial designer : marketing : yeah . and so personal what i was just saying like move away from the current remote controls uh like the look and the feel of the current ones and change the look and feel , while still keeping to the company 's image , basically . so yeah . project manager : okay . marketing : . i had to say user interface : right . marketing : so we 're moving in the right direction like project manager : alright , yeah , no , this i this is good , user interface : yeah . project manager : so through all that we 've we go we 're right , we 're gon na go go back to um going with the kinetic thing , industrial designer : yep . user interface : yeah , that 's great . project manager : that 's great , using the spongy rubber that we were talking about that anti-r_s_i_ you can as you squeeze it you are not only therapeuticising yourself , you are charging the batteries , marketing : mm . project manager : and um i 'm not sure about the buttons being in the shape of fruit though . industrial designer : no vegetables . marketing : user interface : yeah , i do n't know how we incorporate project manager : . marketing : user interface : we do n't have to follow every trend , i guess . marketing : maybe make it like fruity colours or something . user interface : uh-huh . marketing : some sort . or user interface : the power button could be like a big apple or something . industrial designer : well yeah , but apple would sue you for that . marketing : project manager : yeah , this is true . user interface : they don they do n't own all images of apples . project manager : industrial designer : sued the beatles so user interface : okay , we 'll make it a uh pomegranate , a big pomegranate . industrial designer : project manager : well , okay , it seems like the only thing that we have n't really finally um agreed on is its image . like , yeah , we 're we 're saying no we do n't want it to be fruit and vegetables , but we dunno what it should be , user interface : . project manager : or like are we going yeah it looks slick , but what do what do we mean by slick sort of thing ? marketing : well i think , if it 's rubber it needs to be project manager : i mean you said earlier on i it should be funky . marketing : different . i think , it 's it should be i mean , what do you associate with rubber ? you know like project manager : l keep it clean , keep it clean . marketing : really different colours basically . industrial designer : marketing : okay , sor i sorry , i used the wrong word , what do you associate with the mate the material that material ? um industrial designer : marketing : um like i 'm just thinking bright colours . user interface : yeah . marketing : bright natural colours , nothing too project manager : bright , but not too bright . marketing : bright , but too not yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : like no lime green or bright yellow or bright pink . wan na make it different colours so anybody can choo like like project manager : like the volume buttons should be the all the same colour and the d and the the channel buttons should be one colour and stuff like that , do you mean ? marketing : yeah . and on the back of it have the logo . project manager : okay , what ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : sure . industrial designer : why not ? project manager : okay . tha user interface : the one thing i 'm wondering about , i hope that we 're not going like too much down a gimmicky road of of having project manager : yeah , i mean we that 's we we user interface : i mean if somebody go goes into the store they 're gon na see like three or four normal remotes , and then a big spongy pink t tomato uh remote . marketing : project manager : yeah . industrial designer : project manager : this is the remote control tomato . user interface : i mean what are ninety per cent of people gon na take ? marketing : well i can say in this country , you 'll get , you know , lots of people wanting something really funky and cool . like and kids will be walking in with their parents saying , mummy i wan na buy that one . project manager : marketing : and uh parents will see the will see the pro as well , because it 's um like kids wo n't break it , it 's not breakable if you throw it around . project manager : yeah . marketing : especially with younger kids , you know they can pick it up and and yeah . the only thing is is that really small kids might chew on it , but project manager : well , it 's it 's got ta be chew proof . user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : industrial designer : i 'm gon na write that down . marketing : so user interface : marketing : so it 's rea it 's quite project manager : marketing : it 's quite like um user friendly industrial designer : marketing : and also for different families , like like family use as well , so for little kids and for old ki like teenagers will like it , i think . especially maybe younger girls if it 's in pink they 'll be like pink remote control for their room something . project manager : so , what are you saying , maybe we should market it in different colours for different marketing : yeah . project manager : so we could do like the pink range , the blue range , the green range , the industrial designer : that 's yeah . marketing : so like you walk in , you 're like , oh i like that remote control , because it 's so bright , and then , and then the shop assistant comes up and says , oh what colour would you like ? and then they go like , oh i can choose the colour wow . so it puts , i think , even the customer into more control over what they 're buying instead of , you 've got all colour it 's either that or nothing . so they also get to pick . well , personally i like walking into a shop and choosing a colour . user interface : yeah i mean , that that seems to work well with for products like ipod , marketing : it 's um user interface : where , you know , you have a variety of colours , that people feel like they 're customising it when they buy it , even , you know , just just by the fact of choosing . marketing : yeah . mm . industrial designer : although i 'd be curious to see how many uh marketing : d you 've got the industrial designer : you know , there are some colours that i wouldn i would never choose , and i would be curious how many people choose that colour . project manager : well that 's that can be down to bit of market researching you know , user interface : right . project manager : if that 's easy enough to find out what colours are more popular . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and produce less of the silly colours , maybe . </s>
<s> what did the team think of marketing 's proposal of bluetooth ? </s> marketing : that 's why i was thinking , bluetooth , 'cause if you like put up bluetooth , and it 's like a bluetooth remote control , everybody 's gon na like , oh , 'cause bluetooth is the in thing nowadays , like it really is , like people and um when it comes to marketing like that 's what people go for , they do n't really care whether , you know , at the end of the day whether it works properly or not . project manager : of course , they do . marketing : well , they do , but it 's like it 's not project manager : one hundred per cent , that 's your first thing , you go , oh i 'm not gon na buy that , 'cause i dunno if it works or not . marketing : yeah , but it looks good . if it looks good and it 's it can just be there for decoration . project manager : okay , well , what do you two think about this ? user interface : so is is the advantage of bluetooth that you can just like synchronise it with other marketing : but like project manager : yeah , what i do n't understand what m user interface : electronics ? marketing : you could always insert , yeah . user interface : yeah , that 's basically what it allows you to do , project manager : yeah , user interface : right ? project manager : and it this is just gon na all this is being used for is your television . marketing : yeah , but , i mean , people like project manager : it would that would mean you 'd need a television that has bluetooth in it , which no no television does , marketing : well , if you 're looking at if you looking at something that 's going to be bought by people , you have to make it new , you have to make it state of the art . industrial designer : well project manager : does it ? that would mean we 'd have to make a television as well . industrial designer : bluetooth would , for example , enable you , i think , to um um connect for example you if you get a w call on your mobile phone , but your mobile phone is downstairs or something , you would get on your television you 're being called by this person right now . things like that . project manager : no , that would be your telephone in with your television . user interface : yeah , the that would n't be the remote so much , project manager : yeah , user interface : i mean industrial designer : no , but if you get bluetooth on the remote , you 'd be able to project manager : nah , the televi the television would have to be a bluetooth compatible , basically . industrial designer : i with the television , yeah . i was just trying to find an advantage . wha what w what advantage would you get for the marketing : well , it does n't project manager : an and there is no there is no such thing marketing : like it does n't have to be , you know , bluetooth , that was just an idea , but like it needs do something that , you know , is new . whether it 's a battery it could be something really really minor , you know , like but i think we are really keeping to what is already out there , and people 've already seen it , people 've already got it . project manager : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : so we come again for the the second meeting . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : uh for the aim of this meeting now is to to make presentation about uh the work for each one . user interface : project manager : and take the the decision about the the design and the functionality of the the remote control . user interface : okay . project manager : and we have think i got a new project requirement . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so i think uh teletext becomes outdated . so the popularity of the since the popularity of the internet , industrial designer : okay . project manager : and i think we do n't need lighting adaptive , so the remote control should be only used for the the television . and of course we should have our image in the in the design . so , let 's start with the the industrial designer . user interface : project manager : . user interface : industrial designer : yeah , alright . project manager : or y you can use the whiteboard if you want . industrial designer : so uh well i have a powerpoint pr presentation stored in my in my personal folder project manager : here . industrial designer : so i i i think you can reach it from here . marketing : just go to explorer . project manager : oh okay . marketing : or open . participant two . industrial designer : participant two . project manager : this one . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : open uh . industrial designer : uh open . project manager : do you want to open user interface : because it 's open you mean . project manager : industrial designer : right , so um i will talk about the the w working design and user interface : f_ five . marketing : slide show , view slide show , . industrial designer : and um well i i will present my my first idea on how to build the our new remote control for television . user interface : industrial designer : so uh can you go one page down , please . so i think the first things to do is to define the hardware components neededs to achieve uh what we want to do . user interface : industrial designer : so uh mm i 'm thin uh i think uh i i 'll do a survey about what is uh what is available on the market and what what is the the cheapest possible things we hav we can use . then uh i will try with the technical team to to build a prototype and to see uh with uh h how this little box would uh look look like . user interface : industrial designer : and how an and we can uh start troubleshooting first uh com communication problems or things like that . user interface : industrial designer : and when we are ready with this first prototype i i think we can add some software functionalities on a programmable chip like browsing by content or um things like that . okay so can you go down uh so , wha what i think for now is we do n't want to have a remote control w which is wired user interface : project manager : industrial designer : so uh i think we u we can use a battery for the . then two programmable chips for both software functionalities and communication . and the communication with the tv set is uh made through uh infrared communication so uh this is the the schema of the o of the future uh remote controls user interface : did you draw it ? marketing : project manager : wow . industrial designer : so uh you can you can see the components , uh battery and uh the two chips goes to the infrared uh connection to the tv set . user interface : this . project manager : this user interface : what is the other chip for ? the one on top . industrial designer : the one on top is for the um well the functionali the functionalities user interface : marketing : one is a communication . industrial designer : and the the th red um sorry the green one is is to well , putting things together , um f transform the data into uh qu into the format to to uh to communicate with the tv set . user interface : for men . to the in okay . industrial designer : and , that 's it . i think we should use a f_p_g_a_ for for the functionalities which is easy to to t user interface : mm . what is f_p_g_a_ ? industrial designer : it 's field programmable uh something array . marketing : gateway arrays . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's a field programmable gateway arrays . user interface : so why 's it how is it different from the bluetooth ? industrial designer : well , uh a f_p_g_a_ is just a chip you can uh you can pr programme it uh wi with wh whatever you want . user interface : yeah . programme it . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : and uh well the bluetooth chip is just responsible to uh make the communication uh between uh the two devices . user interface : yeah . uh so this are the they have to work together ? or ? do they have to work together or two separate choice industrial designer : no . well , th the f_p_g_a_ will produce the the data to send . user interface : okay . marketing : or it 's something like is n't hardware the first one ? and the second one is for the software . user interface : is the is the software par alri okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah to run th to make it run . user interface : okay , okay . marketing : that 's it . user interface : so you can control if you want , right ? industrial designer : yeah . alright and that 's it for the working design . user interface : industrial designer : so if you have any questions ? marketing : okay , and how about the battery power ? uh you mean that battery would be somewhere there and the remote contro the power to the battery comes through infrared ? industrial designer : uh no no no no , i think uh we have uh to to uh have uh embedded uh b batteries in in the project manager : . marketing : into the industrial designer : yeah into the t . marketing : more compact and uh okay , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : industrial designer : and uh i i do n't think it will need um very uh much power to make it run , so user interface : mm . mm . marketing : yeah , yeah . okay . user interface : mm . you can put it on the charger when uh you when you do n't need to use it . industrial designer : yeah . it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah , that 's right . user interface : yeah . marketing : having a charger rather than putting the battery cells always . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : people do n't like it to have to buy the batteries when they run out . user interface : yeah . mm . uh mm . marketing : we just make a small charger user interface : y yeah , yeah . marketing : and put it project manager : you can i yeah . user interface : because you are using because you are using bluetooth , if some people have p_d_a_ they can use their p_d_a_ to control the tv if they want to , right ? industrial designer : that 's a good idea . marketing : industrial designer : also , but but i i i think uh the the goal is to sell our remote control . project manager : user interface : i dunno . marketing : bu project manager : yeah we can change the b . marketing : our remote , project manager : yeah . marketing : we do not want to make it p_d_a_ . user interface : industrial designer : s okay , so charger for is the . user interface : so is mine . project manager : it 's mine . participant one , no ? user interface : oh . yeah , this your project manager : mm . oh we have so let 's move to to user interface design . user interface : yeah . so you can open uh project manager : participant user interface : three . yeah . so so i 'm working on the technical functions design . can you show the next slide . so the the purpose is to to find uh the important questions to ask is what effect should the apparatus have . so so i found on a webs on the internet project manager : during the weekend . industrial designer : user interface : yeah . i spent a lot of time searching industrial designer : project manager : that 's good . user interface : and uh and i found that uh the function of remote control is to send messages to television set . industrial designer : project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : for example switch on , switch off , switch the next channel and so on and so on . so i found two very good prototypes for for this interface from our competitors industrial designer : user interface : so can you industrial designer : project manager : this are usual functionality . user interface : yeah , yeah , yeah . ours is a bit uh different . so these are two example . one is from the other one is from , yeah , uh engineering centr yeah . project manager : tasks . industrial designer : user interface : this is the most competing prototypes i 've found . industrial designer : user interface : but then uh loo but then i found if you look at you see on the left one there are too many buttons industrial designer : project manager : and they are small . user interface : yeah . o on the right i tried to play with the problem is that uh if i have hundred channels i have uh i have to choo press the other button to choose the hundred channels and i have to compose the number industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so it 's very lousy . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : so you so you move to the next the next one . industrial designer : of course . user interface : yeah , so i talk about the problem . and then i i look at the user manual they are a hundred pages thick , so we do n't want that . project manager : yeah . user interface : so i propose the easy to use uh prototype . you can navigate on tv screen and we can the user 's preference and we need to have the tv connected to internet so we end in order to access the tv programmes by x_m_l_ and we need some to do some preprocessing . from the technical aspect , the processing should be done on the tv set than on the on the remote controller , right ? industrial designer : user interface : and then we the speech recognition as uh harry says we may just put in we may k_i_v_ . project manager : what do you mean by the pa pa processing will be done on the tv user interface : yeah , all the processing is done the tv is a compu has some processing power the project manager : than the industrial designer : so we have to t project manager : so we should have specific tv ? or ? we can use this . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : we have to sell a tv with the remote control too . project manager : yeah , we do n't marketing : user interface : yeah because are you just wondering what controller okay . project manager : yeah , i think so . j j just the remote control . marketing : yeah , not the tvs . industrial designer : i think there there is there is al there there is a a technology like show view who is already available on most of the tv set on recorders or thing like that user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and we can try t to get this information on to the remote control to to do the processing on the remote control because user interface : okay . marketing : yeah . user interface : yeah . okay . marketing : yeah , that 's right . user interface : so i the processing on on the remote controller project manager : yeah , user interface : so it can u be used in any tv , any conventional tv sets ? project manager : we . yeah . user interface : mm . okay . project manager : speech recognition . user interface : n yeah , that 's all . the next one ? so i come up with a simple design , just keep the v navigation buttons . industrial designer : yes , that 's a good idea , i think . project manager : keep the navigation industrial designer : we d we do n't we we do n't need really much buttons to i if we have a screen to navigate on on the tv so uh project manager : but user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : well , f four five buttons , it 's sufficient . user interface : yeah . mm . industrial designer : it 's easy to build , user interface : industrial designer : it does not consume much power . marketing : yeah , that 's right . project manager : . user interface : okay , that 's all . marketing : oh , but you have a catch there , um assume that um if you want to go to if you are watching channel two and if you want to go to channel ninety nine , then . user interface : industrial designer : well , then y you you go to the main menu and uh you have uh go to channel and then uh you can user interface : mm . no , because you choose by channel , so you choose by tv program industrial designer : yeah . marketing : uh-huh huh huh huh . industrial designer : maybe you user interface : so you do n't have hundred channels to choose from . if you go by channel , you do n't have to do that . industrial designer : . marketing : mm-hmm hmm hmm . industrial designer : but uh i i think i i if you if you want to to make uh well a a big jump but uh well you you have to to have a a a device when you could you could marketing : but project manager : so you are user interface : ah . ah , a big jump . marketing : yeah then yeah that 's right . user interface : a mouse or industrial designer : well , not a mouse but uh something that that says more clearly that uh right , left , up , down , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : well , the to have the ability to to to write something to the navigator , maybe directly , or marketing : mm hmm hmm . okay . okay . user interface : mm . industrial designer : we can think of buttons like in the telephone to send messages or things like that . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : how the this remote ? industrial designer : but we 'll see . user interface : uh it 's gon na be small . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , of course small . user interface : yeah . so it 'll beep if you wan na find it marketing : too small that it goes under the sofa and we ca n't find it . project manager : user interface : you just uh shout y h just it just has to re respond to you when you look for the device . marketing : yeah , industrial designer : marketing : that 's . user interface : i dunno how bu marketing : just give it a name and we call him . user interface : and responds to you , and industrial designer : marketing : yeah , that 's right . yeah , that 's right . industrial designer : okay , so uh next presentation user interface : project manager : participant four . so harry . marketing : okay , after having the inputs from industrial design and user interface , i think most of the points which i want to are already covered here . industrial designer : mm . user interface : marketing : and to find the most interesting features what the users would be interested , then what we have done is we have put a feedback forms in all the magazines , and the users send the feedbacks , and based on that these are the findings which we got and yeah adding of a speech interface is always good for a tv remote but the technology we already know that as discussed earlier industrial designer : well i i think it will be a , yes , a bit complicated to um make a speech recognisers runs on the small uh ts user interface : project manager : marketing : an it does how feasible it is . user interface : i- mm . but i think if you to recognise numbers it 's a well-studied problem . i if you just recognise uh numbers is a limited you have limited vocabulary marketing : oh we can put an limited vocabulary as in the mobile phones . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we just have the industrial designer : and this can allow to choose the the program , for instance without uh adding uh buttons user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's a good idea . marketing : it 's not going to take much space also . it 's going to be very slim . user interface : mm . mm . marketing : and next one was the size of the remote control . it has to be of course a very slim and small one . and of course most of the people are interested in if it 's less expensive , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so this is an important criteria here is user interface : but project manager : but do you think what they sug suggested s possibility . user interface : mm . marketing : i mean we have to look for a trade-off . user interface : yeah . marketing : the features and the cost . user interface : i no i i think that uh i if we go for quality people may tolerate for high quality and of course comes with uh reasonable cost . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . marketing : user interface : maybe not less , but they may be willing to pay little bit more for comfort , marketing : little bit more if it 's with extra features . project manager : it industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , extra features . industrial designer : yeah , s s speech is a important extra feature i think marketing : okay . user interface : mm . yeah . marketing : yeah , yeah . that 's right . project manager : but is it useful or not u i do n't know . industrial designer : well , uh project manager : there is in the marketing : i mean , for a lazy guys they could say nine and the nine channel comes . industrial designer : marketing : or they say movie name or i do n't go for movie names but only for the numbers on the channel , or volume up , volume down , brightness , contrast . so , i think this should be a good idea , to put this features . and the fourth one was the teletext in various languages . industrial designer : we we just have to find a mean how to to add a m a a a microphone or uh well yes a microphone into the the remote control , so marketing : mm , i think user interface : industrial designer : i well project manager : i think i industrial designer : it will be alright . marketing : project manager : if it 's necessary can you can do that . user interface : what is the teletext ? mm . project manager : we can integrate small microphone in the remote industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so it 's not really a problem . industrial designer : okay . project manager : what about lighting adaptive options ? marketing : yeah as discussed in the earlier meeting , but i think uh not much people are really interested in this point if it 's not really required . project manager : according to the re to the new requirements i think we do n't need that . yeah . user interface : it is interesting but we are only concerned with the remote controller . so you need s special tv sets to do that ? or it 's it 's done via this remote controller ? it 's very complex . marketing : i mean industrial designer : yeah , i think it 's a bit complex too user interface : marketing : i mean yeah , it 's for the um industrial design and users interface designers to decide if it 's going to be working or not . industrial designer : for our next product , our new tv set with uh automatical uh sound adjustment light marketing : i think project manager : user interface : yeah , then we can conclude that . yeah . yeah , but it 's quite possible but maybe not in this project . project manager : so we have i think we have s still we have couple of minutes . mm-mm . so any things to to discuss ? or any suggestions ? user interface : marketing : i think as i discussed th that four points would be good for um marketing . user interface : marketing : the speech interface and uh less uh reasonable uh cost . project manager : expensive . price . marketing : and the lighting adaptation and the teletext . and regarding the teletext uh these are the subtitl these are the text information which you got on the televisions . user interface : okay . marketing : if you are watching an foreign movie , you get subtitles sometimes . user interface : yeah . okay . marketing : and uh if you are a french guy watching an english movie you would like to have it in french . industrial designer : . marketing : and if i am a german then i would like to have the my options in german . industrial designer : marketing : so , the remote it should have some it should give me some flexibility of choosing the ch languages . industrial designer : function . marketing : that should be a good uh point . industrial designer : yeah , but well what about the the new project 's requirement ? i i i think we should give up with teletext , no ? project manager : i think we we can we is the . industrial designer : yes . well , so maybe we we can j we can already think uh about a way to to access the internet via the television . because if user interface : using the tv to access the internet ? or what ? i did n't quite understand industrial designer : yeah , but uh we can think that in a few years there will be tv set that can access the internet . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , okay . industrial designer : so it 's a good idea if i i if we i if if we uh think about how to to to build up our remote uh control w with this functionality in a w which will c which will come in a few years . marketing : we already have some . industrial designer : so if we already have it in our remote control project manager : so you have to anticipate the the future ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah . user interface : yeah . the future demand , market demand . industrial designer : yeah , to desi marketing : yeah , that 's right . industrial designer : well , not not to implement it , but to well , to find a way to to add to add this functionality in a yeah , in an in an easy manner , if is possible . project manager : . user interface : the functionality in the future . project manager : in future . user interface : alright . yeah . because all the tv sets will be digital , right . all the programmes , everything will be in digital than analog . th the system will change and we have to anticipate for those change . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah , . industrial designer : okay . so project manager : okay . so let 's go for the the lunch break , and we will meet after . industrial designer : okay , thank you . user interface : okay . thank you . </s>
<s> what was the decision of the discussion about industrial working design ? </s> industrial designer : and um well i i will present my my first idea on how to build the our new remote control for television . user interface : industrial designer : so uh can you go one page down , please . so i think the first things to do is to define the hardware components neededs to achieve uh what we want to do . user interface : industrial designer : so uh mm i 'm thin uh i think uh i i 'll do a survey about what is uh what is available on the market and what what is the the cheapest possible things we hav we can use . then uh i will try with the technical team to to build a prototype and to see uh with uh h how this little box would uh look look like . user interface : industrial designer : and how an and we can uh start troubleshooting first uh com communication problems or things like that . user interface : industrial designer : and when we are ready with this first prototype i i think we can add some software functionalities on a programmable chip like browsing by content or um things like that . okay so can you go down uh so , wha what i think for now is we do n't want to have a remote control w which is wired user interface : project manager : industrial designer : so uh i think we u we can use a battery for the . then two programmable chips for both software functionalities and communication . and the communication with the tv set is uh made through uh infrared communication so uh this is the the schema of the o of the future uh remote controls user interface : did you draw it ? marketing : project manager : wow . industrial designer : so uh you can you can see the components , uh battery and uh the two chips goes to the infrared uh connection to the tv set . user interface : this . project manager : this user interface : what is the other chip for ? the one on top . industrial designer : the one on top is for the um well the functionali the functionalities user interface : marketing : one is a communication . industrial designer : and the the th red um sorry the green one is is to well , putting things together , um f transform the data into uh qu into the format to to uh to communicate with the tv set . user interface : for men . to the in okay . industrial designer : and , that 's it . i think we should use a f_p_g_a_ for for the functionalities which is easy to to t user interface : mm . what is f_p_g_a_ ? industrial designer : it 's field programmable uh something array . marketing : gateway arrays . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's a field programmable gateway arrays . user interface : so why 's it how is it different from the bluetooth ? industrial designer : well , uh a f_p_g_a_ is just a chip you can uh you can pr programme it uh wi with wh whatever you want . user interface : yeah . programme it . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : and uh well the bluetooth chip is just responsible to uh make the communication uh between uh the two devices . user interface : yeah . uh so this are the they have to work together ? or ? do they have to work together or two separate choice industrial designer : no . well , th the f_p_g_a_ will produce the the data to send . user interface : okay . marketing : or it 's something like is n't hardware the first one ? and the second one is for the software . user interface : is the is the software par alri okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah to run th to make it run . user interface : okay , okay . marketing : that 's it . user interface : so you can control if you want , right ? industrial designer : yeah . alright and that 's it for the working design . user interface : industrial designer : so if you have any questions ? marketing : okay , and how about the battery power ? uh you mean that battery would be somewhere there and the remote contro the power to the battery comes through infrared ? industrial designer : uh no no no no , i think uh we have uh to to uh have uh embedded uh b batteries in in the project manager : . marketing : into the industrial designer : yeah into the t . marketing : more compact and uh okay , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : industrial designer : and uh i i do n't think it will need um very uh much power to make it run , so user interface : mm . mm . marketing : yeah , yeah . okay . user interface : mm . you can put it on the charger when uh you when you do n't need to use it . industrial designer : yeah . it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah , that 's right . user interface : yeah . marketing : having a charger rather than putting the battery cells always . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : people do n't like it to have to buy the batteries when they run out . user interface : yeah . mm . uh mm . marketing : we just make a small charger user interface : y yeah , yeah . marketing : and put it project manager : you can i yeah . user interface : because you are using because you are using bluetooth , if some people have p_d_a_ they can use their p_d_a_ to control the tv if they want to , right ? industrial designer : that 's a good idea . marketing : industrial designer : also , but but i i i think uh the the goal is to sell our remote control . project manager : user interface : i dunno . marketing : bu project manager : yeah we can change the b . marketing : our remote , project manager : yeah . marketing : we do not want to make it p_d_a_ . user interface : industrial designer : s okay , so charger for is the . user interface : so is mine . project manager : it 's mine . participant one , no ? </s>
<s> why did industrial designer recommend the fpga when talking about industrial working design ? </s> industrial designer : and , that 's it . i think we should use a f_p_g_a_ for for the functionalities which is easy to to t user interface : mm . what is f_p_g_a_ ? industrial designer : it 's field programmable uh something array . marketing : gateway arrays . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : it 's a field programmable gateway arrays . user interface : so why 's it how is it different from the bluetooth ? industrial designer : well , uh a f_p_g_a_ is just a chip you can uh you can pr programme it uh wi with wh whatever you want . user interface : yeah . programme it . marketing : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : and uh well the bluetooth chip is just responsible to uh make the communication uh between uh the two devices . user interface : yeah . uh so this are the they have to work together ? or ? do they have to work together or two separate choice industrial designer : no . well , th the f_p_g_a_ will produce the the data to send . user interface : okay . marketing : or it 's something like is n't hardware the first one ? and the second one is for the software . user interface : is the is the software par alri okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah to run th to make it run . user interface : okay , okay . marketing : that 's it . user interface : so you can control if you want , right ? </s>
<s> why did industrial designer recommend a charger rather than a battery when talking about industrial working design ? </s> marketing : okay , and how about the battery power ? uh you mean that battery would be somewhere there and the remote contro the power to the battery comes through infrared ? industrial designer : uh no no no no , i think uh we have uh to to uh have uh embedded uh b batteries in in the project manager : . marketing : into the industrial designer : yeah into the t . marketing : more compact and uh okay , industrial designer : yeah , yeah . user interface : industrial designer : and uh i i do n't think it will need um very uh much power to make it run , so user interface : mm . mm . marketing : yeah , yeah . okay . user interface : mm . you can put it on the charger when uh you when you do n't need to use it . industrial designer : yeah . it 's a good idea . marketing : yeah , that 's right . user interface : yeah . marketing : having a charger rather than putting the battery cells always . user interface : yeah , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : people do n't like it to have to buy the batteries when they run out . user interface : yeah . mm . uh mm . marketing : we just make a small charger user interface : y yeah , yeah . marketing : and put it </s>
<s> what were the main points of marketing when giving a presentation which linked the project with market interests ? </s> industrial designer : okay , so uh next presentation user interface : project manager : participant four . so harry . marketing : okay , after having the inputs from industrial design and user interface , i think most of the points which i want to are already covered here . industrial designer : mm . user interface : marketing : and to find the most interesting features what the users would be interested , then what we have done is we have put a feedback forms in all the magazines , and the users send the feedbacks , and based on that these are the findings which we got and yeah adding of a speech interface is always good for a tv remote but the technology we already know that as discussed earlier industrial designer : well i i think it will be a , yes , a bit complicated to um make a speech recognisers runs on the small uh ts user interface : project manager : marketing : an it does how feasible it is . user interface : i- mm . but i think if you to recognise numbers it 's a well-studied problem . i if you just recognise uh numbers is a limited you have limited vocabulary marketing : oh we can put an limited vocabulary as in the mobile phones . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we just have the industrial designer : and this can allow to choose the the program , for instance without uh adding uh buttons user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's a good idea . marketing : it 's not going to take much space also . it 's going to be very slim . user interface : mm . mm . marketing : and next one was the size of the remote control . it has to be of course a very slim and small one . and of course most of the people are interested in if it 's less expensive , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so this is an important criteria here is user interface : but project manager : but do you think what they sug suggested s possibility . user interface : mm . marketing : i mean we have to look for a trade-off . user interface : yeah . marketing : the features and the cost . user interface : i no i i think that uh i if we go for quality people may tolerate for high quality and of course comes with uh reasonable cost . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . marketing : user interface : maybe not less , but they may be willing to pay little bit more for comfort , marketing : little bit more if it 's with extra features . project manager : it industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , extra features . industrial designer : yeah , s s speech is a important extra feature i think marketing : okay . user interface : mm . yeah . marketing : yeah , yeah . that 's right . project manager : but is it useful or not u i do n't know . industrial designer : well , uh project manager : there is in the marketing : i mean , for a lazy guys they could say nine and the nine channel comes . industrial designer : marketing : or they say movie name or i do n't go for movie names but only for the numbers on the channel , or volume up , volume down , brightness , contrast . so , i think this should be a good idea , to put this features . and the fourth one was the teletext in various languages . industrial designer : we we just have to find a mean how to to add a m a a a microphone or uh well yes a microphone into the the remote control , so marketing : mm , i think user interface : industrial designer : i well project manager : i think i industrial designer : it will be alright . marketing : project manager : if it 's necessary can you can do that . user interface : what is the teletext ? mm . project manager : we can integrate small microphone in the remote industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so it 's not really a problem . industrial designer : okay . project manager : what about lighting adaptive options ? marketing : yeah as discussed in the earlier meeting , but i think uh not much people are really interested in this point if it 's not really required . project manager : according to the re to the new requirements i think we do n't need that . yeah . user interface : it is interesting but we are only concerned with the remote controller . so you need s special tv sets to do that ? or it 's it 's done via this remote controller ? it 's very complex . marketing : i mean industrial designer : yeah , i think it 's a bit complex too user interface : marketing : i mean yeah , it 's for the um industrial design and users interface designers to decide if it 's going to be working or not . industrial designer : for our next product , our new tv set with uh automatical uh sound adjustment light marketing : i think project manager : </s>
<s> what did the team decide about the speech recogniser when talking about presentation which linked the project with market interests ? </s> marketing : and to find the most interesting features what the users would be interested , then what we have done is we have put a feedback forms in all the magazines , and the users send the feedbacks , and based on that these are the findings which we got and yeah adding of a speech interface is always good for a tv remote but the technology we already know that as discussed earlier industrial designer : well i i think it will be a , yes , a bit complicated to um make a speech recognisers runs on the small uh ts user interface : project manager : marketing : an it does how feasible it is . user interface : i- mm . but i think if you to recognise numbers it 's a well-studied problem . i if you just recognise uh numbers is a limited you have limited vocabulary marketing : oh we can put an limited vocabulary as in the mobile phones . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : we just have the industrial designer : and this can allow to choose the the program , for instance without uh adding uh buttons user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so it 's a good idea . marketing : it 's not going to take much space also . it 's going to be very slim . user interface : mm . mm . marketing : and next one was the size of the remote control . it has to be of course a very slim and small one . and of course most of the people are interested in if it 's less expensive , project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so this is an important criteria here is user interface : but project manager : but do you think what they sug suggested s possibility . user interface : mm . marketing : i mean we have to look for a trade-off . user interface : yeah . marketing : the features and the cost . user interface : i no i i think that uh i if we go for quality people may tolerate for high quality and of course comes with uh reasonable cost . industrial designer : project manager : yeah . marketing : user interface : maybe not less , but they may be willing to pay little bit more for comfort , marketing : little bit more if it 's with extra features . project manager : it industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah . user interface : yeah , extra features . industrial designer : yeah , s s speech is a important extra feature i think marketing : okay . user interface : mm . yeah . marketing : yeah , yeah . that 's right . project manager : but is it useful or not u i do n't know . industrial designer : well , uh project manager : there is in the marketing : i mean , for a lazy guys they could say nine and the nine channel comes . industrial designer : marketing : or they say movie name or i do n't go for movie names but only for the numbers on the channel , or volume up , volume down , brightness , contrast . so , i think this should be a good idea , to put this features . and the fourth one was the teletext in various languages . </s>
<s> what did the team agree about lighting adaptive options when talking about the presentation which linked the project with market interests ? </s> project manager : what about lighting adaptive options ? marketing : yeah as discussed in the earlier meeting , but i think uh not much people are really interested in this point if it 's not really required . project manager : according to the re to the new requirements i think we do n't need that . yeah . user interface : it is interesting but we are only concerned with the remote controller . so you need s special tv sets to do that ? or it 's it 's done via this remote controller ? it 's very complex . marketing : i mean industrial designer : yeah , i think it 's a bit complex too user interface : marketing : i mean yeah , it 's for the um industrial design and users interface designers to decide if it 's going to be working or not . industrial designer : for our next product , our new tv set with uh automatical uh sound adjustment light marketing : i think project manager : </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> industrial designer : project manager : so in last meeting we have discussed the conceptual design and we asked you to prepare a prototype for the for the remote control . user interface : okay . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : so . so let 's see the what did you prepare . user interface : yeah , so can you go out to the shared folder ? mm the shared folder . project manager : sh share folder for th your presentation ? user interface : yes . we have a presentation . project manager : because i have here industrial designer : user interface : uh so i got the participant uh three . w uh . three . it 's the final design , yeah . project manager : okay just one . industrial designer : user interface : s so so i discussed with guillaume . industrial designer : mm . yeah . user interface : right . and uh so we have and we we are both agreed on some two versions of the prototypes , because we were no not decided whether we wanted to have an lcd or not because it 's too expensive . so we come up with two versions . one with and one without lcds . um but both comes with a charger and then detachable and uh or control module . and detachable big buttons for all people um . so . industrial designer : s okay so i 'll show you the the two prototypes . here we have the first one with the beautiful uh lcd um display . you you can s here . and you can uh just um browse into the the navigation menu by uh joystick joystick-like uh button . you can uh choose the direction and if you just push on it it 's considered like a enter function . user interface : mm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : you have on the mm on the side here the microphone for the for the speech recognition system here . user interface : industrial designer : and here the the switch that control if you want project manager : why you why you you put it in the the side ? industrial designer : well i i i think uh it 's the project manager : it 's not a good place maybe . industrial designer : yeah but user interface : no i i it 's the all around camer uh microphone is n't it . the the microphone picks up the speeches from anywhere . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : is it an only a single mic or a microphone array ? industrial designer : well so it 's a microphone array . user interface : project manager : oh it 's very costly , microphone array . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : no user interface : yeah industrial designer : it 's just a single microphone , and you i i think uh we we put it here because i think when you when you are browsing your lcd you will be close to marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well it 's better to to to place it here th than here , for instance . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : and here is a little switch that control if you want the the speaker uh recognition system to um to be on or off . and uh so this remote control comes up with its charger . project manager : how much does it cost this one ? industrial designer : well this this prototype is um made for about uh well fi fi fifteen fifteen dollars user interface : for the project manager : fifteen dollars ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : fifteen dollars , project manager : ah it 's above it 's above the budget . industrial designer : but uh well it 's not it 's not uh yeah , but uh it 's just a prototype and if we uh if we optimises the um the uh voila . marketing : the cost would be le reduced . industrial designer : yeah the and the the production costs we we can achieve uh about ten dollars . user interface : mm . hmm . project manager : how many b battery is there ? industrial designer : how many , excuse me ? project manager : battery . industrial designer : well uh f battery , we use uh about uh user interface : is it n the two a_a_s batteries in it . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : a_a_ rechargeable batteries . industrial designer : rechargeable of course , user interface : yeah rechargeable batteries . industrial designer : because we have the charger . user interface : we have the charger so it 's no problem . industrial designer : yeah and you just project manager : so one one battery ? industrial designer : on uh yeah one battery . marketing : is that two or one ? user interface : project manager : it 's kinetic reserve . user interface : actually uh it 's a flexible thing . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : you just n uh marketing : now what is the whole day rating for that ? industrial designer : the excuse me ? marketing : whole day 's rating . user interface : marketing : what type of battery ? industrial designer : oh yeah it 's just a r uh simple battery a rechargeable uh user interface : yeah yeah . industrial designer : if you uh like it 's exist . marketing : something like a two a_ , a_ three size batteries ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so and if you want to charge the battery you just put the remote control like that to plug in the the charger user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and uh leave it uh alone , it 's alright . user interface : mm . at uh yeah . industrial designer : then the next time you pick it , oh project manager : industrial designer : it works . user interface : i forgot to tell you there is only a single button there , b this button industrial designer : yeah just explain the button uh norman . user interface : yeah alright . this button is like the mouse is like a joystick , industrial designer : user interface : you can move in three hundred and sixty degrees of direction so you can make a turn and it the additi functions associated to all the actions you ma you have a click you have a double click all in a single button . industrial designer : user interface : you can move up , down , left , right , or you can do a swing . so a swing to the left , a swing to the right defines other functions . so even though it 's a single button , but it is pretty s flexible because of the three hundred and sixty degree movement . marketing : and the lcd is this one , on the remote ? user interface : yeah . this is the version y that comes with lcd . marketing : yeah . user interface : here i present another version without the lcd . industrial designer : project manager : i think it 's not a good idea because after maybe one or two months of function is getting destroyed . if you user interface : uh okay this is new prototype uh . project manager : industrial designer : yeah it 's project manager : industrial designer : so we have the the second version also with the different uh button configuration . the second version is also simpler , we d uh we had just uh i have to put the microphone also . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : industrial designer : so basically th it 's the same uh marketing : uh-huh and also the switch . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : basically it 's the same uh things uh uh as uh i presented before . but here we have uh we have uh four buttons for navigation . press one button uh acting as a a enter button . user interface : mm . industrial designer : so um yeah according to what you said it 's more robust to the user . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh it 's also cheaper to produce . we can produce uh such remote control for about uh four dollars . project manager : no four dollars , it 's good . user interface : marketing : and i think you forgot a point here to have an button to find the charger , because that 's a major that 's a user interface : th actually th we 'll come to that point in our industrial designer : yeah it 's it 's it 's embed in the uh speech recognition system . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so marketing : and if you disable speech recognition system then ? user interface : w w i 'll i 'll come to that point later on . industrial designer : so norman will explain to you . marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm . project manager : and we will we will serve the charger with this ? user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah yeah of course mm . user interface : th they either these with the uh the the charger any project manager : with the remote control . user interface : in either versions you they they ha they use the same charger yeah . project manager : okay so the price of the charger included in the user interface : uh it 's a standard module so you should get it for a cheap price uh . project manager : industrial designer : thank thank you . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and so mm-hmm . user interface : it 's that same charger that you can use for the hand-phone but uh again depends on the types . i think we have to investigate more on that , but project manager : the price should be below twelve and a half euro . user interface : yeah . yeah project manager : well that 's so user interface : but as the marketing manager says , people is willing to people are willing to pay more for good design . project manager : we have we have just marketing : yeah people are willing to pay more , user interface : industrial designer : marketing : but the company is not willing to invest more at the moment . project manager : the price of selling is twenty five euros . user interface : yeah . yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : and the price of production user interface : industrial designer : alright please uh go on norman with the special features . marketing : or uh user interface : yeah we 'll we 'll come up to that , the the the thing that makes this the controller cheap is that it is modular so you want more function you pay more . if you want less function i i if you want a reasonable price you pay for the functions that you add on to the system , marketing : user interface : so is uh modular . project manager : that 's for this basis function and if you want more you pay more . user interface : yeah yeah , for example the lcd , you can take it you can put it put it back in , or you can use the other one , marketing : something like customised . yeah project manager : yeah . user interface : or the speech recogniser with the microphone yeah yeah . industrial designer : user interface : you want a microphone to put in the speech recogniser you do n't wan you pay less for the system you see . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm . user interface : so marketing : hmm okay . user interface : it 's pretty flexible in the yeah price . industrial designer : you also have the the the two other modules for the parental control project manager : but user interface : uh yeah yeah you should present that . industrial designer : that that you ca you can add up to the to your remote control marketing : and this is other one ? user interface : industrial designer : i i if you uh if you want to to have more more power on what you do , and uh which channel you want to choose and so on . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : h here is just the the the module for the kids and th if the parents want to watch tv , up they come up with their modules , marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm . industrial designer : they just plug in it user interface : yeah industrial designer : and they can have all the control they want here . we also have this module for uh old people with big buttons , clearly labelled , user interface : hmm . industrial designer : and it acts like the previous one , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you just plug in and it works . user interface : yeah marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : the i the idea the the conceptual idea is that simplicity and powerful . simplicity meaning that we have few buttons , powerful is that all the controls with the one you saw we saw earlier in the meetings with lots of buttons n but here you only have few buttons but you retain the mm the same powerful functionalities . but in addition with simplicity . so that 's the best idea , the cond that that 's our uh an innovation um uh i in this uh design here . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : okay now we come to other important features that i did not tell you . the first one is the speech recogniser , again it 's detachable or add-on . and then we also have security feature for example this here oop industrial designer : user interface : it 's very robust , it does n't break and the material , what 's the material again ? industrial designer : the titanium project manager : titanium . industrial designer : and so it 's very uh user interface : again uh and the battery life is uh is an is an endurable one , again because this is a_a_ batteries you can choose the types of battery you want . marketing : yeah that 's fine . user interface : lithium-ion may be a good one , but you can replace it with cheaper one , again you pay for what you get , and then um y the other p points are robust and misplacement reminder . so when you finish watching your tv and you the you t you turn off the tv , uh and then there 's this message coming out that uh please put that back to the charger , so so that 's the or is it marketing : okay . user interface : that 's the reminder part . yeah and um and it also use a programmable channel and vocabulary , so we did n't define the vocabulary so it 's up to the user to define marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm . user interface : so sorry ? project manager : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : and then uh because of the chil because children are using the device so we have also a a of tv programmes by genre , and this can be used by the adult or by the children . so instead of choosing the channel you are choosing the tv contents of the night . so it 's pretty powerful , and that 's that 's why the num buttons are reduced , because of this feature . yeah . and and for the materials that is cheap to produce i think uh it 's quite clear from yeah . and also like the and the fancy designs yeah . project manager : what what 's user interface : maybe we can improve more on the design but project manager : maybe yeah . industrial designer : project manager : what 's the price to p to produce ? user interface : uh this is the industrial designer : well so the price to produce for uh the simplest one , say we start from four dollars to produce such a device . project manager : with with with the charge ? industrial designer : uh it 's about it the without without the charger marketing : with the charger ? project manager : okay . user interface : yeah industrial designer : it 's about uh well two dollars to produce uh the microphone and speech recognition systems . user interface : industrial designer : two dollars for the uh for the add-on modules , and finally three dollars for the charger . so if you uh sum up uh everything wi with the lcd , which costs two dollar , you have two plus four plus four plus two plus two . user interface : yeah . project manager : we do n't have charger . marketing : i think we can use excel . industrial designer : it 's about project manager : we do n't have all the options . industrial designer : so the total cost if you if you want all the fuct functionalities will be about uh fifteen dollars . project manager : charger we do n't have charger here either . user interface : yeah . project manager : no it 's industrial designer : but it 's just if you want all functionalities . project manager : it 's below the the the budget . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : excuse me ? project manager : it 's below the bu the budget . user interface : marketing : yeah it 's a nice input project manager : we marketing : but we have an other inputs from the l public demands . i think we will just have a rough look and then we can make our statements , and we can finalise the product based on this discu user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i think we can just go to my presentation then . we can wind up . or we could uh come to some f uh final conclusions . user interface : marketing : so the marketing made an evaluation criteria and these were some of the findings , and uh in the market the people are not really interested with lcd , without lcd , with speech recognition interface , or without speech recognition interface , but most of the people what they are interested is first thing is , they want to have an fancy look and feel , it should be very fancy with colourful and uh very handy to hold . user interface : mm . marketing : and the second thing is it should be much more technologically innovative . user interface : marketing : of course in that we could put lcd or recognition to be more technologically innovative . and the third one is easy to use . industrial designer : well i think that the technical in innovation is is in the product itself since we have n't yet a remote who are allowing to to choose interactively with the tv screen uh uh with just four buttons . marketing : okay and if we go to the next slide , here you can find these are the latest fashion updates , and so this in paris and milan they have detected this trends that the this year it 's going to be an year of fruit and vegetable , so people are really interested to see if they have an remote in the shape of the fruit or a vegetable , or whatever they like . user interface : spongy spongy . mm mm . marketing : so i think it should be much more customised to make a different uh shapes . user interface : mm mm . marketing : and the second thing is , and if the material , they really do not want it to be very hard , as in the case of very pl plastic or titanium , it should be somewhat spongy . user interface : but the the problem is that uh is it robust to mishandling ? industrial designer : okay . user interface : we have you should find a material that is robust at the same time spongy . industrial designer : a sponge . marketing : yeah so uh so finally we have these three criterias . user interface : spongy . marketing : one is fancy look , second is innovative , and third is easy to use . user interface : marketing : so these are the f uh three criteria on which we are going to build our remote . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so and we have an evaluation criteria for each one of these , say that we have a seven point scale , from one to seven , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : and for each of the product you could just give me the scale according to this . industrial designer : marketing : so now you have with lcd and without lcd , so on this scale , if it is true , if it is if it has a fancy look you could just tell me one , or if it is false , it does n't it looks uh it does n't look much fancy , then you could just tell me seven . so user interface : so marketing : we can make our study on this and user interface : so is the e evaluation depending on us or other users ? marketing : no no we have you have designed two products now , project manager : yeah . marketing : one is with lcd and without lcd . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but who will give the scoring uh we ourself or or a third party ? marketing : according to you , no according to you designers , how will feel does it uh with lcd and without lcd ? okay let us make this l_ and without lcd . on on this scale the lcd remote control . how do you look how does it look ? user interface : mm . mm . marketing : d is it very fancy or does n't look much fancy ? industrial designer : well it does n't look much fancy i 'll i 'll say three or four . marketing : and you both agree for that ? project manager : and you ? user interface : i think we can improve on the design . marketing : user interface : som someone um commented this is like a the stone age uh design . industrial designer : yeah . it 's it it project manager : user interface : um we have been focused all all this time on the on the technical aspect , functional aspect , but also the simplicity . industrial designer : technical aspects . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : as for the design maybe we c should hire a designer to help . marketing : so i take three on with lcd ? industrial designer : yeah a three . marketing : so without lcd how would you rate it ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh four . i think it 's it 's uh more easy to make f fancy things when it 's not complicated marketing : four . industrial designer : so removing the lcd um gives us a li more liberty to to have a fancy look . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : and in the sense of innovativeness , with lcd . industrial designer : well it 's it 's the same for both so i will give a five , six . user interface : mm . marketing : five with lcd and user interface : industrial designer : well five also uh norman please . user interface : yeah project manager : uh user interface : from the innovation aspect i feel that uh what is most innovative of our prototype compared to the existing prototypes that we saw l in the last meeting is that um the retrieval of tv programmes by content , because uh that is really innovative , and for now and another innovation we have is simplicity and simplicity , few buttons , we 've uh a lot of functionalities . industrial designer : with lot of functionalities . user interface : so that is uh that is uh for both th marketing : so without lcd ? user interface : our gi i think that the our our product is uh has the best in all well this is a biased judgement industrial designer : user interface : because we designed them . marketing : no no according to design aspect we want to know how would you feel the innovativeness ? user interface : yeah . uh the innovation is v is very high i think . project manager : for lcd . marketing : with lcd . user interface : both . marketing : and without lcd ? industrial designer : mm for both it 's the the same innovations . user interface : for both . it 's the same innovation . so maybe i can put six to seven . marketing : okay . industrial designer : six , let 's go for six . project manager : without lcd . user interface : both . marketing : no actually uh to make it with lcd you make more efforts . so i there is high innovativeness included if you make it with lcd y industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then when it is without lcd there is not much innovativeness . project manager : uh no innovative yeah . user interface : uh uh uh there w there was a there was a issue here is that what are what is the display on the lcd ? marketing : so we ca n't go project manager : industrial designer : talk about user interface : we have n't really uh determined what are actually actually project manager : marketing : i mean that what you are sayin that 's what the design user interface : it 's good to have a lcd but what are we gon na display on a lcd ? industrial designer : marketing : no it 's like this , project manager : marketing : i mean on the lcd , according to what i understand from your model is , you have a joystick here , and you have lcd , you just press your joystick , you get here a programme . project manager : so let 's remove it . user interface : yeah ? yeah . yeah but project manager : but industrial designer : but you have the same programme on the tv screen . marketing : uh then user interface : yes exactly . project manager : this is the problem . marketing : no on the tv you do n't it does n't display on the tv now . industrial designer : if you have the lcd , but if n marketing : lcd ? then uh there is no meaning in having it on the tv . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : or then again you have a channels , volume and all the stuff and what a user interface : but you can not display all on a lcd . marketing : i mean that depends upon your design , so user interface : anyway for for the users who who who opt for lcd we 'll give them the give them the lcd , marketing : i mean user interface : we give what the customer uh wants , right . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : marketing : so without lcd you want to put it fi the same level of innovativeness ? and which do you recommend e easy to use , with lcd or without lcd ? user interface : industrial designer : well i think both are really easy to use because there are few button buttons , user interface : yeah industrial designer : and uh well t p the menu are clear , well-organised , so user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : well with little knowing of the technology you can you can easily use the product user interface : industrial designer : so i will give a six for the easy to use . user interface : yeah i think project manager : no it 's just if i i see the the f the rate i think it 's better to do it without lcd . user interface : sorry . project manager : because that 's with lcd just will increase the price , marketing : yeah . project manager : and i thi i they have the same rate so without lcd it will be user interface : yeah . marketing : or we can just go back to the previous slide uh where we ha we have a few updates . so i mean in the product design you could just amend it to make some few changes user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : according to fruit and vegetable or a spongy touch user interface : yeah . marketing : without lcd and without speech recognition . even then our product is going to be very good . industrial designer : yeah , it 's cheaper to produce . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm . s industrial designer : and uh if the the well if we have less technology we have more liberty to uh for the shape and uh things like that so marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : yeah . i have another thing to say about the easy to use aspect . i think the easy to use uh aspect is different for different people . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : for the young generation easy to use may be very complicated because uh they w they wants lot of controls with lots of buttons . for kids they want simply the s similarit for the old people they want simplicity , marketing : yeah yeah that 's right . user interface : so that 's why we have the parental module . uh we can ha have build a more complex design if if they want it , but but uh what i 'm trying to say here is that the um we have different sets of buttons for different kinds of people . so in terms of easy to use i think it 's very user customisable . user customisation is very important yeah . yeah industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so marketing : so without lcd i just take it five ? project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : w uh marketing : or you want it to be six ? user interface : i think it 's the same . industrial designer : um six . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yes as you say , with better uh project manager : without lcd . marketing : s s oh i think it 's better to have this without lcd . industrial designer : yeah . and to improve the the look . marketing : as our programme manager s pro project manager says that without lcd it is going to reduce the cost also , user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : and it 's going to be much simpler to use . industrial designer : yes and to give us more liberty to have a fancy look so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so let 's go back to our laboratory and user interface : to improve on the design . project manager : what a what what about the sys speech recognition ? what about the integration of speech recognition ? user interface : huh ? the speech recogniser is a add-on module . right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that 's going to be an optional . user interface : yeah . marketing : if somebody wants to buy it they can have it , otherwise no . industrial designer : project manager : ah so it 's optional with the okay . marketing : it 's an optional . industrial designer : it 's optional yeah , since well according to this study uh people more likes more to have a spongy uh remote control than project manager : i think it will be i think i user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : i think it will be better if we have all these modules in the same remote control , because maybe parents will lose these uh marketing : yeah , but i mean if you have an add-ons , the kids may just uh hide the parental module project manager : yeah . or ma yeah . marketing : and so that their parents ca n't use it . project manager : or maybe parents they can for forget where they put it or , so mayb better if you have all this in the same marketing : in the same set , yeah , and and individual buttons to make them work . project manager : yeah . user interface : the problem is if i we are bla if a customer wants a certain component , and does n't want the parental control because it 's a couple who do not have children when you sell the product in the market you could meet any kind of people , and not all people will need all the functionalities we propose to them . so we might lose the customer because of this . i do n't know , project manager : so you mean that even if these modules will be will be functional uh will be optional . user interface : what do you think uh ? yes exa what do you think , i do n't know . you are marketing manag . project manager : uh marketing : i mean how to how to how to make a marketing survey that uh how many married couple or how many couples have a tv user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : or to the number or singles who have a television . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so based on that i think user interface : yeah . but the the question is n does those modularity increase the production cost or decrease the production cost ? project manager : i think it inc increase . industrial designer : well you can if you had uh something li project manager : i think it i increases . industrial designer : oh no , because if you if you add uh something well yeah maybe because it 's three different pieces uh to to to build but marketing : but you can make it on a single p_c_ with three different options . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah user interface : industrial designer : it 's i think it 's cheaper if you if you already built the all the functionalities um on the same module , but uh user interface : mm . mm . yeah . marketing : on the same p_c_b_ user interface : well well the other aspect is that if in the when they have the ar existing product you you gon na maintain the the you 're gon na keep the same customer , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : because the same customer will come back to buy other add-ons . marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : so so marketing : i mean you could just provide with an optional . user interface : yeah i i so if do n't do n't buy now they can buy i in the future . so in in that way you 're actually keeping the cus the same customer , attracting them to come back in again and again . industrial designer : marketing : so it 's something like a microsoft product update . project manager : and and we we we we we we do n't want that . industrial designer : user interface : we 're not trying to follow the microsoft and we do n't want to the m project manager : marketing : updates and we sell it . we make updates and sell it . industrial designer : user interface : yeah well if the buyers can be up the th would be can be upgraded , it would be a good thing right ? project manager : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , it depends on the v production . marketing : and uh what 's the idea about uh the shape of the remote controls ? industrial designer : well so marketing : uh can they be made into a fruit and vegetable types ? industrial designer : yeah yeah marketing : do you require different types of p_c_b_s and industrial designer : i think we are yeah but we are also the um well the components will have to change because uh we have to deal with the shape and um but i do n't think it will uh increase the cost too much so marketing : or uh it could be like this the p_c_b_ would be the same for all , but only the exterior uh shape is different o for all . industrial designer : uh well but it 's a bit complicated to if if if you need machines to different machines to um ah well user interface : yeah . what we can change is to propose the customers with skins . for example the i the mobile phones nowaday , they sell different kinds of skin marketing : yeah , yeah that 's right . user interface : and then people just feel that oh i have a new skin and looks better . industrial designer : yeah yeah we can have the same global shape user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and then uh add on skins and with with this uh tex spongy texture uh things like that . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : yeah . yeah you can pl in what material would that be in uh ? industrial designer : sponge . marketing : i think you need to look into the material . user interface : yeah or furry like a pet dog kind of thing . industrial designer : marketing : yeah yeah . industrial designer : okay . project manager : so industrial designer : so we finished the prototype uh presentation if you have uh something else to say . user interface : marketing : i think the project manager would be interested to look about the financial issues in making these models . project manager : project evaluation project satisfaction , for example . i do n't know , we have to ask these question . we have to give answers so marketing : user interface : i suppose that you this criteria , is it ? project manager : project evaluation . user interface : room for creativity . this room is a bit small , but industrial designer : project manager : user interface : but i think it 's okay for us to work with . marketing : i feel it 's fine , we know we do n't need uh i think it 's okay . user interface : yeah mm . industrial designer : that was good . marketing : this is fine for making a presentat for project presentations . user interface : mm . yeah anyway we have the laboratory nearby to build our modules so it 's okay . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : and the leadership was excellent . project manager : yeah i think so . industrial designer : user interface : good job good job . industrial designer : fine yes uh project manager : he gave you the liberty to talk as you wants . marketing : yeah that 's right . yeah that 's right . project manager : uh the teamwork was very very good . i was really i am very satisfying to work with with you . industrial designer : very democratic . user interface : industrial designer : thank you . marketing : user interface : thank you . project manager : oh . industrial designer : alright . user interface : alright . marketing : and new ideas found . any new ideas to make these presentations more interactive and more interesting ? user interface : mm . industrial designer : come up with new product . project manager : less fancy . marketing : i mean uh what type of product would you think could we make this more interesting ? user interface : mm we i i know something , we need more cakes , more biscuits on the table while we have meetings . industrial designer : yeah and also more well uh more seriously i think it 's it 's a good idea to have uh clear clear points whenever we do a meeting marketing : user interface : mm . industrial designer : uh prior to the meeting to have uh well a list with the points who will be discussed or things like that , but i think it 's alright . we achieved uh project goal i think . marketing : that is within the budget . project manager : industrial designer : it 's w yes , more or less . marketing : and the evaluation was project manager : without without lcd , without speech recognition , it will be simple . marketing : yeah that 's right . industrial designer : yeah but user interface : industrial designer : alright . so . marketing : and the next is celebration . industrial designer : so uh coffee machine . marketing : so project manager : yeah free free coffee user interface : alright then , we finished ? industrial designer : okay . project manager : yeah thank you for your work and marketing : yeah thank you , thank you very much . </s>
<s> summarize the presentation about two versions of the prototype . </s> industrial designer : project manager : so in last meeting we have discussed the conceptual design and we asked you to prepare a prototype for the for the remote control . user interface : okay . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : so . so let 's see the what did you prepare . user interface : yeah , so can you go out to the shared folder ? mm the shared folder . project manager : sh share folder for th your presentation ? user interface : yes . we have a presentation . project manager : because i have here industrial designer : user interface : uh so i got the participant uh three . w uh . three . it 's the final design , yeah . project manager : okay just one . industrial designer : user interface : s so so i discussed with guillaume . industrial designer : mm . yeah . user interface : right . and uh so we have and we we are both agreed on some two versions of the prototypes , because we were no not decided whether we wanted to have an lcd or not because it 's too expensive . so we come up with two versions . one with and one without lcds . um but both comes with a charger and then detachable and uh or control module . and detachable big buttons for all people um . so . industrial designer : s okay so i 'll show you the the two prototypes . here we have the first one with the beautiful uh lcd um display . you you can s here . and you can uh just um browse into the the navigation menu by uh joystick joystick-like uh button . you can uh choose the direction and if you just push on it it 's considered like a enter function . user interface : mm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : you have on the mm on the side here the microphone for the for the speech recognition system here . user interface : industrial designer : and here the the switch that control if you want project manager : why you why you you put it in the the side ? industrial designer : well i i i think uh it 's the project manager : it 's not a good place maybe . industrial designer : yeah but user interface : no i i it 's the all around camer uh microphone is n't it . the the microphone picks up the speeches from anywhere . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : is it an only a single mic or a microphone array ? industrial designer : well so it 's a microphone array . user interface : project manager : oh it 's very costly , microphone array . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : no user interface : yeah industrial designer : it 's just a single microphone , and you i i think uh we we put it here because i think when you when you are browsing your lcd you will be close to marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well it 's better to to to place it here th than here , for instance . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : and here is a little switch that control if you want the the speaker uh recognition system to um to be on or off . and uh so this remote control comes up with its charger . project manager : how much does it cost this one ? industrial designer : well this this prototype is um made for about uh well fi fi fifteen fifteen dollars user interface : for the project manager : fifteen dollars ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : fifteen dollars , project manager : ah it 's above it 's above the budget . industrial designer : but uh well it 's not it 's not uh yeah , but uh it 's just a prototype and if we uh if we optimises the um the uh voila . marketing : the cost would be le reduced . industrial designer : yeah the and the the production costs we we can achieve uh about ten dollars . user interface : mm . hmm . project manager : how many b battery is there ? industrial designer : how many , excuse me ? project manager : battery . industrial designer : well uh f battery , we use uh about uh user interface : is it n the two a_a_s batteries in it . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : a_a_ rechargeable batteries . industrial designer : rechargeable of course , user interface : yeah rechargeable batteries . industrial designer : because we have the charger . user interface : we have the charger so it 's no problem . industrial designer : yeah and you just project manager : so one one battery ? industrial designer : on uh yeah one battery . marketing : is that two or one ? user interface : project manager : it 's kinetic reserve . user interface : actually uh it 's a flexible thing . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : you just n uh marketing : now what is the whole day rating for that ? industrial designer : the excuse me ? marketing : whole day 's rating . user interface : marketing : what type of battery ? industrial designer : oh yeah it 's just a r uh simple battery a rechargeable uh user interface : yeah yeah . industrial designer : if you uh like it 's exist . marketing : something like a two a_ , a_ three size batteries ? industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so and if you want to charge the battery you just put the remote control like that to plug in the the charger user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : and uh leave it uh alone , it 's alright . user interface : mm . at uh yeah . industrial designer : then the next time you pick it , oh project manager : industrial designer : it works . user interface : i forgot to tell you there is only a single button there , b this button industrial designer : yeah just explain the button uh norman . user interface : yeah alright . this button is like the mouse is like a joystick , industrial designer : user interface : you can move in three hundred and sixty degrees of direction so you can make a turn and it the additi functions associated to all the actions you ma you have a click you have a double click all in a single button . industrial designer : user interface : you can move up , down , left , right , or you can do a swing . so a swing to the left , a swing to the right defines other functions . so even though it 's a single button , but it is pretty s flexible because of the three hundred and sixty degree movement . marketing : and the lcd is this one , on the remote ? user interface : yeah . this is the version y that comes with lcd . marketing : yeah . user interface : here i present another version without the lcd . industrial designer : project manager : i think it 's not a good idea because after maybe one or two months of function is getting destroyed . if you user interface : uh okay this is new prototype uh . project manager : industrial designer : yeah it 's project manager : industrial designer : so we have the the second version also with the different uh button configuration . the second version is also simpler , we d uh we had just uh i have to put the microphone also . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : industrial designer : so basically th it 's the same uh marketing : uh-huh and also the switch . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : basically it 's the same uh things uh uh as uh i presented before . but here we have uh we have uh four buttons for navigation . press one button uh acting as a a enter button . user interface : mm . industrial designer : so um yeah according to what you said it 's more robust to the user . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and uh it 's also cheaper to produce . we can produce uh such remote control for about uh four dollars . project manager : no four dollars , it 's good . user interface : marketing : and i think you forgot a point here to have an button to find the charger , because that 's a major that 's a user interface : th actually th we 'll come to that point in our industrial designer : yeah it 's it 's it 's embed in the uh speech recognition system . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so marketing : and if you disable speech recognition system then ? user interface : w w i 'll i 'll come to that point later on . industrial designer : so norman will explain to you . marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm . project manager : and we will we will serve the charger with this ? user interface : yeah . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah yeah of course mm . user interface : th they either these with the uh the the charger any project manager : with the remote control . user interface : in either versions you they they ha they use the same charger yeah . project manager : okay so the price of the charger included in the user interface : uh it 's a standard module so you should get it for a cheap price uh . project manager : industrial designer : thank thank you . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and so mm-hmm . user interface : it 's that same charger that you can use for the hand-phone but uh again depends on the types . i think we have to investigate more on that , but project manager : the price should be below twelve and a half euro . user interface : yeah . yeah project manager : well that 's so user interface : but as the marketing manager says , people is willing to people are willing to pay more for good design . project manager : we have we have just marketing : yeah people are willing to pay more , user interface : industrial designer : marketing : but the company is not willing to invest more at the moment . project manager : the price of selling is twenty five euros . user interface : yeah . yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : and the price of production user interface : industrial designer : alright please uh go on norman with the special features . marketing : or uh user interface : yeah we 'll we 'll come up to that , the the the thing that makes this the controller cheap is that it is modular so you want more function you pay more . if you want less function i i if you want a reasonable price you pay for the functions that you add on to the system , marketing : user interface : so is uh modular . project manager : that 's for this basis function and if you want more you pay more . user interface : yeah yeah , for example the lcd , you can take it you can put it put it back in , or you can use the other one , marketing : something like customised . yeah project manager : yeah . user interface : or the speech recogniser with the microphone yeah yeah . industrial designer : user interface : you want a microphone to put in the speech recogniser you do n't wan you pay less for the system you see . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm . user interface : so marketing : hmm okay . user interface : it 's pretty flexible in the yeah price . industrial designer : you also have the the the two other modules for the parental control project manager : but user interface : uh yeah yeah you should present that . industrial designer : that that you ca you can add up to the to your remote control marketing : and this is other one ? user interface : industrial designer : i i if you uh if you want to to have more more power on what you do , and uh which channel you want to choose and so on . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : h here is just the the the module for the kids and th if the parents want to watch tv , up they come up with their modules , marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm . industrial designer : they just plug in it user interface : yeah industrial designer : and they can have all the control they want here . we also have this module for uh old people with big buttons , clearly labelled , user interface : hmm . industrial designer : and it acts like the previous one , user interface : yeah . industrial designer : you just plug in and it works . user interface : yeah marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : the i the idea the the conceptual idea is that simplicity and powerful . simplicity meaning that we have few buttons , powerful is that all the controls with the one you saw we saw earlier in the meetings with lots of buttons n but here you only have few buttons but you retain the mm the same powerful functionalities . but in addition with simplicity . so that 's the best idea , the cond that that 's our uh an innovation um uh i in this uh design here . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : okay now we come to other important features that i did not tell you . the first one is the speech recogniser , again it 's detachable or add-on . and then we also have security feature for example this here oop industrial designer : user interface : it 's very robust , it does n't break and the material , what 's the material again ? industrial designer : the titanium project manager : titanium . industrial designer : and so it 's very uh user interface : again uh and the battery life is uh is an is an endurable one , again because this is a_a_ batteries you can choose the types of battery you want . marketing : yeah that 's fine . user interface : lithium-ion may be a good one , but you can replace it with cheaper one , again you pay for what you get , and then um y the other p points are robust and misplacement reminder . so when you finish watching your tv and you the you t you turn off the tv , uh and then there 's this message coming out that uh please put that back to the charger , so so that 's the or is it marketing : okay . user interface : that 's the reminder part . yeah and um and it also use a programmable channel and vocabulary , so we did n't define the vocabulary so it 's up to the user to define marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm . user interface : so sorry ? project manager : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : and then uh because of the chil because children are using the device so we have also a a of tv programmes by genre , and this can be used by the adult or by the children . so instead of choosing the channel you are choosing the tv contents of the night . so it 's pretty powerful , and that 's that 's why the num buttons are reduced , because of this feature . yeah . and and for the materials that is cheap to produce i think uh it 's quite clear from yeah . and also like the and the fancy designs yeah . project manager : what what 's user interface : maybe we can improve more on the design but project manager : maybe yeah . industrial designer : project manager : what 's the price to p to produce ? user interface : uh this is the industrial designer : well so the price to produce for uh the simplest one , say we start from four dollars to produce such a device . project manager : with with with the charge ? industrial designer : uh it 's about it the without without the charger marketing : with the charger ? project manager : okay . user interface : yeah industrial designer : it 's about uh well two dollars to produce uh the microphone and speech recognition systems . user interface : industrial designer : two dollars for the uh for the add-on modules , and finally three dollars for the charger . so if you uh sum up uh everything wi with the lcd , which costs two dollar , you have two plus four plus four plus two plus two . user interface : yeah . project manager : we do n't have charger . marketing : i think we can use excel . industrial designer : it 's about project manager : we do n't have all the options . industrial designer : so the total cost if you if you want all the fuct functionalities will be about uh fifteen dollars . project manager : charger we do n't have charger here either . user interface : yeah . project manager : no it 's industrial designer : but it 's just if you want all functionalities . project manager : it 's below the the the budget . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : excuse me ? project manager : it 's below the bu the budget . user interface : marketing : yeah it 's a nice input project manager : we marketing : but we have an other inputs from the l public demands . i think we will just have a rough look and then we can make our statements , and we can finalise the product based on this discu user interface : yeah . </s>
<s> what did industrial designer put the microphone and the switch on the side of the set when discussing two versions of the prototype ? </s> industrial designer : and here the the switch that control if you want project manager : why you why you you put it in the the side ? industrial designer : well i i i think uh it 's the project manager : it 's not a good place maybe . industrial designer : yeah but user interface : no i i it 's the all around camer uh microphone is n't it . the the microphone picks up the speeches from anywhere . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : is it an only a single mic or a microphone array ? industrial designer : well so it 's a microphone array . user interface : project manager : oh it 's very costly , microphone array . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : no user interface : yeah industrial designer : it 's just a single microphone , and you i i think uh we we put it here because i think when you when you are browsing your lcd you will be close to marketing : yeah . industrial designer : well it 's better to to to place it here th than here , for instance . user interface : yeah yeah . marketing : okay . </s>
<s> why did user interface say that it 's pretty flexible in the price when talking about two versions of the prototype ? </s> user interface : yeah we 'll we 'll come up to that , the the the thing that makes this the controller cheap is that it is modular so you want more function you pay more . if you want less function i i if you want a reasonable price you pay for the functions that you add on to the system , marketing : user interface : so is uh modular . project manager : that 's for this basis function and if you want more you pay more . user interface : yeah yeah , for example the lcd , you can take it you can put it put it back in , or you can use the other one , marketing : something like customised . yeah project manager : yeah . user interface : or the speech recogniser with the microphone yeah yeah . industrial designer : user interface : you want a microphone to put in the speech recogniser you do n't wan you pay less for the system you see . industrial designer : project manager : okay . marketing : mm hmm hmm hmm . user interface : so marketing : hmm okay . </s>
<s> summarize the evaluation of two versions and further discussion . </s> marketing : i think we can just go to my presentation then . we can wind up . or we could uh come to some f uh final conclusions . user interface : marketing : so the marketing made an evaluation criteria and these were some of the findings , and uh in the market the people are not really interested with lcd , without lcd , with speech recognition interface , or without speech recognition interface , but most of the people what they are interested is first thing is , they want to have an fancy look and feel , it should be very fancy with colourful and uh very handy to hold . user interface : mm . marketing : and the second thing is it should be much more technologically innovative . user interface : marketing : of course in that we could put lcd or recognition to be more technologically innovative . and the third one is easy to use . industrial designer : well i think that the technical in innovation is is in the product itself since we have n't yet a remote who are allowing to to choose interactively with the tv screen uh uh with just four buttons . marketing : okay and if we go to the next slide , here you can find these are the latest fashion updates , and so this in paris and milan they have detected this trends that the this year it 's going to be an year of fruit and vegetable , so people are really interested to see if they have an remote in the shape of the fruit or a vegetable , or whatever they like . user interface : spongy spongy . mm mm . marketing : so i think it should be much more customised to make a different uh shapes . user interface : mm mm . marketing : and the second thing is , and if the material , they really do not want it to be very hard , as in the case of very pl plastic or titanium , it should be somewhat spongy . user interface : but the the problem is that uh is it robust to mishandling ? industrial designer : okay . user interface : we have you should find a material that is robust at the same time spongy . industrial designer : a sponge . marketing : yeah so uh so finally we have these three criterias . user interface : spongy . marketing : one is fancy look , second is innovative , and third is easy to use . user interface : marketing : so these are the f uh three criteria on which we are going to build our remote . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : so and we have an evaluation criteria for each one of these , say that we have a seven point scale , from one to seven , user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : and for each of the product you could just give me the scale according to this . industrial designer : marketing : so now you have with lcd and without lcd , so on this scale , if it is true , if it is if it has a fancy look you could just tell me one , or if it is false , it does n't it looks uh it does n't look much fancy , then you could just tell me seven . so user interface : so marketing : we can make our study on this and user interface : so is the e evaluation depending on us or other users ? marketing : no no we have you have designed two products now , project manager : yeah . marketing : one is with lcd and without lcd . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : but who will give the scoring uh we ourself or or a third party ? marketing : according to you , no according to you designers , how will feel does it uh with lcd and without lcd ? okay let us make this l_ and without lcd . on on this scale the lcd remote control . how do you look how does it look ? user interface : mm . mm . marketing : d is it very fancy or does n't look much fancy ? industrial designer : well it does n't look much fancy i 'll i 'll say three or four . marketing : and you both agree for that ? project manager : and you ? user interface : i think we can improve on the design . marketing : user interface : som someone um commented this is like a the stone age uh design . industrial designer : yeah . it 's it it project manager : user interface : um we have been focused all all this time on the on the technical aspect , functional aspect , but also the simplicity . industrial designer : technical aspects . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : as for the design maybe we c should hire a designer to help . marketing : so i take three on with lcd ? industrial designer : yeah a three . marketing : so without lcd how would you rate it ? user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh four . i think it 's it 's uh more easy to make f fancy things when it 's not complicated marketing : four . industrial designer : so removing the lcd um gives us a li more liberty to to have a fancy look . user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : and in the sense of innovativeness , with lcd . industrial designer : well it 's it 's the same for both so i will give a five , six . user interface : mm . marketing : five with lcd and user interface : industrial designer : well five also uh norman please . user interface : yeah project manager : uh user interface : from the innovation aspect i feel that uh what is most innovative of our prototype compared to the existing prototypes that we saw l in the last meeting is that um the retrieval of tv programmes by content , because uh that is really innovative , and for now and another innovation we have is simplicity and simplicity , few buttons , we 've uh a lot of functionalities . industrial designer : with lot of functionalities . user interface : so that is uh that is uh for both th marketing : so without lcd ? user interface : our gi i think that the our our product is uh has the best in all well this is a biased judgement industrial designer : user interface : because we designed them . marketing : no no according to design aspect we want to know how would you feel the innovativeness ? user interface : yeah . uh the innovation is v is very high i think . project manager : for lcd . marketing : with lcd . user interface : both . marketing : and without lcd ? industrial designer : mm for both it 's the the same innovations . user interface : for both . it 's the same innovation . so maybe i can put six to seven . marketing : okay . industrial designer : six , let 's go for six . project manager : without lcd . user interface : both . marketing : no actually uh to make it with lcd you make more efforts . so i there is high innovativeness included if you make it with lcd y industrial designer : yeah . marketing : then when it is without lcd there is not much innovativeness . project manager : uh no innovative yeah . user interface : uh uh uh there w there was a there was a issue here is that what are what is the display on the lcd ? marketing : so we ca n't go project manager : industrial designer : talk about user interface : we have n't really uh determined what are actually actually project manager : marketing : i mean that what you are sayin that 's what the design user interface : it 's good to have a lcd but what are we gon na display on a lcd ? industrial designer : marketing : no it 's like this , project manager : marketing : i mean on the lcd , according to what i understand from your model is , you have a joystick here , and you have lcd , you just press your joystick , you get here a programme . project manager : so let 's remove it . user interface : yeah ? yeah . yeah but project manager : but industrial designer : but you have the same programme on the tv screen . marketing : uh then user interface : yes exactly . project manager : this is the problem . marketing : no on the tv you do n't it does n't display on the tv now . industrial designer : if you have the lcd , but if n marketing : lcd ? then uh there is no meaning in having it on the tv . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : or then again you have a channels , volume and all the stuff and what a user interface : but you can not display all on a lcd . marketing : i mean that depends upon your design , so user interface : anyway for for the users who who who opt for lcd we 'll give them the give them the lcd , marketing : i mean user interface : we give what the customer uh wants , right . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : marketing : so without lcd you want to put it fi the same level of innovativeness ? and which do you recommend e easy to use , with lcd or without lcd ? user interface : industrial designer : well i think both are really easy to use because there are few button buttons , user interface : yeah industrial designer : and uh well t p the menu are clear , well-organised , so user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : well with little knowing of the technology you can you can easily use the product user interface : industrial designer : so i will give a six for the easy to use . user interface : yeah i think project manager : no it 's just if i i see the the f the rate i think it 's better to do it without lcd . user interface : sorry . project manager : because that 's with lcd just will increase the price , marketing : yeah . project manager : and i thi i they have the same rate so without lcd it will be user interface : yeah . marketing : or we can just go back to the previous slide uh where we ha we have a few updates . so i mean in the product design you could just amend it to make some few changes user interface : yeah . yeah . marketing : according to fruit and vegetable or a spongy touch user interface : yeah . marketing : without lcd and without speech recognition . even then our product is going to be very good . industrial designer : yeah , it 's cheaper to produce . marketing : yeah . user interface : mm . s industrial designer : and uh if the the well if we have less technology we have more liberty to uh for the shape and uh things like that so marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : yeah . i have another thing to say about the easy to use aspect . i think the easy to use uh aspect is different for different people . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : for the young generation easy to use may be very complicated because uh they w they wants lot of controls with lots of buttons . for kids they want simply the s similarit for the old people they want simplicity , marketing : yeah yeah that 's right . user interface : so that 's why we have the parental module . uh we can ha have build a more complex design if if they want it , but but uh what i 'm trying to say here is that the um we have different sets of buttons for different kinds of people . so in terms of easy to use i think it 's very user customisable . user customisation is very important yeah . yeah industrial designer : yeah . user interface : so marketing : so without lcd i just take it five ? project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : w uh marketing : or you want it to be six ? user interface : i think it 's the same . industrial designer : um six . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yes as you say , with better uh project manager : without lcd . marketing : s s oh i think it 's better to have this without lcd . industrial designer : yeah . and to improve the the look . marketing : as our programme manager s pro project manager says that without lcd it is going to reduce the cost also , user interface : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : and it 's going to be much simpler to use . industrial designer : yes and to give us more liberty to have a fancy look so user interface : yeah . industrial designer : so let 's go back to our laboratory and user interface : to improve on the design . project manager : what a what what about the sys speech recognition ? what about the integration of speech recognition ? user interface : huh ? the speech recogniser is a add-on module . right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : that 's going to be an optional . user interface : yeah . marketing : if somebody wants to buy it they can have it , otherwise no . industrial designer : project manager : ah so it 's optional with the okay . marketing : it 's an optional . industrial designer : it 's optional yeah , since well according to this study uh people more likes more to have a spongy uh remote control than project manager : i think it will be i think i user interface : marketing : yeah . project manager : i think it will be better if we have all these modules in the same remote control , because maybe parents will lose these uh marketing : yeah , but i mean if you have an add-ons , the kids may just uh hide the parental module project manager : yeah . or ma yeah . marketing : and so that their parents ca n't use it . project manager : or maybe parents they can for forget where they put it or , so mayb better if you have all this in the same marketing : in the same set , yeah , and and individual buttons to make them work . project manager : yeah . user interface : the problem is if i we are bla if a customer wants a certain component , and does n't want the parental control because it 's a couple who do not have children when you sell the product in the market you could meet any kind of people , and not all people will need all the functionalities we propose to them . so we might lose the customer because of this . i do n't know , project manager : so you mean that even if these modules will be will be functional uh will be optional . user interface : what do you think uh ? yes exa what do you think , i do n't know . you are marketing manag . project manager : uh marketing : i mean how to how to how to make a marketing survey that uh how many married couple or how many couples have a tv user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : or to the number or singles who have a television . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so based on that i think user interface : yeah . but the the question is n does those modularity increase the production cost or decrease the production cost ? project manager : i think it inc increase . industrial designer : well you can if you had uh something li project manager : i think it i increases . industrial designer : oh no , because if you if you add uh something well yeah maybe because it 's three different pieces uh to to to build but marketing : but you can make it on a single p_c_ with three different options . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah user interface : industrial designer : it 's i think it 's cheaper if you if you already built the all the functionalities um on the same module , but uh user interface : mm . mm . yeah . marketing : on the same p_c_b_ user interface : well well the other aspect is that if in the when they have the ar existing product you you gon na maintain the the you 're gon na keep the same customer , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : because the same customer will come back to buy other add-ons . marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : so so marketing : i mean you could just provide with an optional . user interface : yeah i i so if do n't do n't buy now they can buy i in the future . so in in that way you 're actually keeping the cus the same customer , attracting them to come back in again and again . industrial designer : marketing : so it 's something like a microsoft product update . project manager : and and we we we we we we do n't want that . industrial designer : user interface : we 're not trying to follow the microsoft and we do n't want to the m project manager : marketing : updates and we sell it . we make updates and sell it . industrial designer : user interface : yeah well if the buyers can be up the th would be can be upgraded , it would be a good thing right ? project manager : industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , it depends on the v production . marketing : and uh what 's the idea about uh the shape of the remote controls ? industrial designer : well so marketing : uh can they be made into a fruit and vegetable types ? industrial designer : yeah yeah marketing : do you require different types of p_c_b_s and industrial designer : i think we are yeah but we are also the um well the components will have to change because uh we have to deal with the shape and um but i do n't think it will uh increase the cost too much so marketing : or uh it could be like this the p_c_b_ would be the same for all , but only the exterior uh shape is different o for all . industrial designer : uh well but it 's a bit complicated to if if if you need machines to different machines to um ah well user interface : yeah . what we can change is to propose the customers with skins . for example the i the mobile phones nowaday , they sell different kinds of skin marketing : yeah , yeah that 's right . user interface : and then people just feel that oh i have a new skin and looks better . industrial designer : yeah yeah we can have the same global shape user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and then uh add on skins and with with this uh tex spongy texture uh things like that . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : yeah . yeah you can pl in what material would that be in uh ? industrial designer : sponge . marketing : i think you need to look into the material . user interface : yeah or furry like a pet dog kind of thing . industrial designer : marketing : yeah yeah . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> why did the team agree to have all functions in the same set in the evaluation of two versions and further discussion ? </s> project manager : i think it will be better if we have all these modules in the same remote control , because maybe parents will lose these uh marketing : yeah , but i mean if you have an add-ons , the kids may just uh hide the parental module project manager : yeah . or ma yeah . marketing : and so that their parents ca n't use it . project manager : or maybe parents they can for forget where they put it or , so mayb better if you have all this in the same marketing : in the same set , yeah , and and individual buttons to make them work . project manager : yeah . user interface : the problem is if i we are bla if a customer wants a certain component , and does n't want the parental control because it 's a couple who do not have children when you sell the product in the market you could meet any kind of people , and not all people will need all the functionalities we propose to them . so we might lose the customer because of this . i do n't know , project manager : so you mean that even if these modules will be will be functional uh will be optional . user interface : what do you think uh ? yes exa what do you think , i do n't know . you are marketing manag . project manager : uh marketing : i mean how to how to how to make a marketing survey that uh how many married couple or how many couples have a tv user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : or to the number or singles who have a television . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so based on that i think user interface : yeah . but the the question is n does those modularity increase the production cost or decrease the production cost ? project manager : i think it inc increase . industrial designer : well you can if you had uh something li project manager : i think it i increases . industrial designer : oh no , because if you if you add uh something well yeah maybe because it 's three different pieces uh to to to build but marketing : but you can make it on a single p_c_ with three different options . industrial designer : yeah yeah yeah user interface : industrial designer : it 's i think it 's cheaper if you if you already built the all the functionalities um on the same module , but uh user interface : mm . mm . yeah . </s>
<s> what did the team say about the shape of the remote control when talking about the evaluation of two versions and further discussion ? </s> marketing : and uh what 's the idea about uh the shape of the remote controls ? industrial designer : well so marketing : uh can they be made into a fruit and vegetable types ? industrial designer : yeah yeah marketing : do you require different types of p_c_b_s and industrial designer : i think we are yeah but we are also the um well the components will have to change because uh we have to deal with the shape and um but i do n't think it will uh increase the cost too much so marketing : or uh it could be like this the p_c_b_ would be the same for all , but only the exterior uh shape is different o for all . industrial designer : uh well but it 's a bit complicated to if if if you need machines to different machines to um ah well user interface : yeah . what we can change is to propose the customers with skins . for example the i the mobile phones nowaday , they sell different kinds of skin marketing : yeah , yeah that 's right . user interface : and then people just feel that oh i have a new skin and looks better . industrial designer : yeah yeah we can have the same global shape user interface : yeah . industrial designer : and then uh add on skins and with with this uh tex spongy texture uh things like that . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah that 's right . user interface : yeah . yeah you can pl in what material would that be in uh ? industrial designer : sponge . marketing : i think you need to look into the material . user interface : yeah or furry like a pet dog kind of thing . industrial designer : marketing : yeah yeah . industrial designer : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : well hi everyone again . user interface : hello . industrial designer : hello . project manager : um like before we uh i have to redo the meetings from n th the minutes from the last meeting marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and so here we go . uh it was discussed in the last meeting uh which was opened by the presentation from the interface um designer that uh looks would be very important on this new remote user interface : designer . marketing : project manager : and um it is to send messages of course to the tv . it should have nine channel buttons , a next button , volume buttons , subtitle buttons , switch to control features , colour contrast , sharpness etcetera . it should have a memory switch , a mute button in case the telephone rings or something . uh speech recognition is one of her very f favourite personal uh features she would like see d d to be integrated in this um in this new remote . um . should be child friendly design with few buttons , colourful maybe with s star shaped or other shaped buttons . um she uh presented also an oversized remote which she guarantees nobody will ever be able to lose . user interface : project manager : um marketing : and she was challenged on that point project manager : that 's right . user interface : yes . industrial designer : project manager : but uh her very f personal favourite really she , she would very much like to see a speech recogniser integrated in this remote . the industrial designer um presented her uh thoughts on the issue . she would like a special case made out of plastic that is very strong , not using any harmful materials , should be recyclable and should be colourful . should have an integrated circuit board that 's highly sophisticated and temperature resistant . she would like to see a timer and or alarm facility integrated . uh technically this thing would also have a resistor and a capacitor , diode transistor , resonator , and if possible a rechargeable battery . uh and of course a circuit board . and how it would works , you press the button , the chip is morse morse code related relays the uh to the generat to the generator amplification and uh the circuit board is very inexpensive to build and so she thinks this is a great feature uh to to to consider . marketing : okay . project manager : she would like uh this whole thing should be push buttons with a simple chip uh scrolling method is more expensive and not that practical anymore . should be battery operated and of course she would have the special cases . the marketing expert uh who has to finally come up with to to to market this product has been watching the competition , has done some research on the internet and also has used h her personal observations to come up with the fact that such a remote sh should be small , easy to use and it should be eye catching . from her point of view of course one of the most important facts is that we should get to market before our competition does . to do that uh maybe one or two features should be developed on which we could dwell on or in other words on which our campaign could be built on . too many new features or too many points would only confuse matter . so we prefer to have one or two features that can be really uh driven home . um it should have a fruit and vegetable design and should have a soft feel . she feels that 's really what people want today . and the decision that we took last time was that uh the special feature we would like to see is a speech recogniser , the energy should be battery uh should be on a chip , should be trendy design , compact and strong , and should have buttons . and that concludes the presentation from the last minutes from the last meeting . now uh we are ready for the presentation of the prototype . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : just the look like , the button part i 'll explain . industrial designer : yeah . uh so this is our what uh we have made . this is a model of the remote control which we are going to build . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh this is us in a snail shape so uh it it is attractive marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and it 's it 's blue in colour uh bright and uh it has yellow buttons and all the different colour buttons marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so it is a uh uh a looks-wise it is beautiful . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh and also compact in shape . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh um and also i it it will be easily fit into into the hands and you can access all the buttons easily . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . good . industrial designer : yeah , project manager : industrial designer : oops , sorry . marketing : you used to have all the buttons user interface : industrial designer : um yeah and um uh the material which we are going to use for the case is uh plastic and uh w which which is s strong um uh and also uh for the um the material is plastic and uh for the buttons it is uh s soft rubber um and als marketing : oh that 's good , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no , that 's nice and friendly . industrial designer : yeah because uh uh you 'll be touching the buttons more so it is soft when you touch it . marketing : mm-hmm . mm . project manager : mm-hmm , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and then um uh for the for the led , for the light emitting diode it is a fluorescent green marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and it 's a a it is a bulb like an ordinary infrared . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and and the button button 's part uh will be explained by f francina . user interface : okay . marketing : okay . user interface : now the um we decided upon including certain features on our remote . now these features includes the s um signal emitting uh signal it 's the led or l_e_d_ the infrared . project manager : mm-hmm , marketing : yeah , okay , mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : now uh we have included the switch on and off button . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : now we have included another feature that is the mute button marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : on the side of the model . then we have included one to nine buttons marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : for controlling the programmes the different channels . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : we have also included two buttons for increasing or decreasing the volume . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and we have also included two buttons for scrolling up and scrolling down the programme channels . now our our model also contains a button which is called as the menu button . project manager : what kind of button ? user interface : menu button . project manager : menu ? uh menu th menu , uh one one . user interface : yes , menu marketing : menu button . user interface : at the centre marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : we have included a button which is fluorescent green colour and this is the menu button which will control the colour , sharpness , brightness marketing : mm-hmm . of the screen . mm , mm-hmm . user interface : of this uh picture . we have also included a button which is called as the swapping button . now this is uh a special , special feature which we have included . now this button is an elongated shaped button and this is slightly flexible so if it is turned towards the right it will take to the previous channel , if it is turned towards the right it will take to the next channel . it will take the user to the previous and the next channel so this is a swapping button . marketing : the next channel in the numeric pattern , or user interface : no , swapping is if if example you 're you 're watching the second channel and then you go to the tenth channel and if you want to go back to the second channel you can swap , this button . marketing : yeah , mm-hmm . mm . okay , okay . user interface : and at the end , it this remote has inbuilt voice recogniser which c which will recognise the user 's voice and then it 'll act accordingly . project manager : okay . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : so this is our proposed model . marketing : okay . user interface : now the marketing expert has to marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : tell , yeah . user interface : give her suggestion whether it 'll be sellable or it 'll be cost effective . industrial designer : marketing : okay , well um what what i really like a lot about it is that you can reach the whole thing with one thumb , user interface : yes , yes . marketing : that you can really hold it in one h you do n't need two hands industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and it 's easily reachable even for somebody with a small hand , yeah ? project manager : yes the buttons are all raised , right ? marketing : the buttons are all raised project manager : are raised , mm-hmm . marketing : and if you hold it in the centre of your hand you can even reach it over here so you do n't have to turn it around , turn it upside down , move it up , up and down , project manager : right . or have two hands to operate it , yeah . marketing : i really like that . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : you really did a good job on that , my little designers . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um and um i like the idea that the on-off button is in a really prominent place . that 's that 's a really good good thing . project manager : yes , and it sort of sticks up so that you really marketing : yeah , that 's great . project manager : you do n't have to g first go like oh yeah here it 's on and yeah , mm-hmm . industrial designer : hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : abs okay . marketing : the colour 's very attractive . um the um these buttons uh around here are the mute user interface : no , these the front buttons which are here , are the mute buttons . marketing : and these mm-hmm on both sides they 're mute ? user interface : yes , yes . marketing : so you can push either one ? okay . project manager : so if you 're left-handed or right-handed it does n't matter . marketing : and this brings the menu up on the screen ? user interface : pardon me ? this is the menu yes , yes . marketing : this brings the menu up on the screen and the orange ones are user interface : a the the these these two are th to increase or decrease the volumes , marketing : okay . user interface : and these two are to uh scroll the programme channels . marketing : f f okay . user interface : scroll up or scroll down the channels . marketing : right , very good . uh it looks mm looks like something i can sell . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay and now i 'm supposed to project manager : well , i have one question marketing : yeah . project manager : uh will there be anything written on the buttons , like that people know , or they have to learn that from a piece of paper which button does what ? user interface : yes , it will have uh these buttons will have the numbers and all the rest of the buttons will have symbols . industrial designer : ah . yeah , definitely . project manager : will have symbols so that that that the user really knows you know and does n't have to first learn it user interface : yes , which can be easily recognised . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . yeah . marketing : good point because we need the symbols 'cause we 're going into an international market we ca n't have anything that 's language dependent . industrial designer : yeah of course , and also project manager : yeah . but anyway it would ha i i i it has to have some kind of of symbols , text or something so that people kn industrial designer : yeah . yeah we can text . marketing : symbols on it . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . industrial designer : text that we can have on the case itself , project manager : that 's right . industrial designer : we can it will be printed on the case and symbols as well as the buttons . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay , yeah just wanted make sure of that mm-hmm . user interface : and and one more feature is we we have a holder for this remote which is an oyster shape . marketing : mm , 'kay , mm . mm-hmm . user interface : a shell shape . marketing : for the snail , yeah , mm-hmm , project manager : right , mm-hmm . user interface : yes , yes . industrial designer : yeah . so it is marketing : we have the snail shell . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yes , snail shell . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : he goes right back into his shell . industrial designer : yeah shell . project manager : right . marketing : well you know i think we could do something really funny with this too because the snail is known to be slow industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and we could have some sort of little comic effect on our marketing about how this is a rapid snail or something like that user interface : mm-hmm . y yes industrial designer : yeah , of course , yeah . marketing : you know that would , that would really work . project manager : now what , what are our special features for the marketing ? marketing : so project manager : that 's really the voice recognition that 's really unusual marketing : i think voice recognition is our big selling point industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause nobody else seems to have that in in this price range . project manager : and then , and then the other thing would basically be sh shape or practicality of use . you know . marketing : uh well i think that everybody 's gon na say their remote control is practical . i think we have to , we have to dwell on on on the appearance . project manager : colours . mm-hmm . marketing : we 're really gon na have the be the project manager : cutest . marketing : cutest remote control on the block . project manager : yeah . marketing : so i think we have to play with the image , play with the snail image um play with the visual and then the voice recognition . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : i think those are the two things to push . the look and the voice recognition . they 're gon na be our two selling points . project manager : okay , now uh having said that marketing : i 'm supposed to make a little presentation , are n't i ? project manager : no , now this was our evaluation criteria which we uh just have done . marketing : okay . project manager : now we 're gon na talk about financing . marketing : ah , but in my instructions i think it said i was supposed to go to the board and do something . project manager : well , there is a production evaluation . is that you ? marketing : yeah , that 's me . project manager : but that 's after the financing . marketing : oh , okay . project manager : see ? fi see ? marketing : sorry , sorry . mm-mm . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : um . okay , we had looks and voice recognition . okay now on the financing we bring up the mm there it is . okay uh energy source we say that 's battery , right ? marketing : that 's right . project manager : okay , now . so we i guess we use one . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : what ? t cell or chart you are trying to change is protected . well , that 's nice . she told me i could just ch change it here and then it would it does n't work . hmm . marketing : can you just fill it in in the yellow boxes ? or project manager : oh , okay yeah , okay , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : let 's see . okay , one , okay . oh go away . um kinetic source so that 's in the energy source that 's all we need . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : uh electronics , simple chip on print ? is that 's what we 're using ? industrial designer : yeah , project manager : one of those ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : come on . okay , one . uh regular chip on print . no . that 's all we need , the one industrial designer : no . yeah . project manager : case , uncurved flat , single curved , double curved . marketing : well . industrial designer : this is a user interface : single curve ? mm . marketing : i guess it 's double curved . project manager : double curved ? one of those ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : case materi s supplements . plastic we said , right ? user interface : plastic . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh wood , rubber ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : rubber , because we 're gon na have the soft buttons . project manager : uh but , yes but industrial designer : i think uh that is uh f for rubbers that is uh yeah case material . project manager : that 's just for the case material , user interface : is this for the case ? yes . project manager : so special colours though , we having that , marketing : oh okay , the mm-hmm , mm ' kay . project manager : right ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then we have to interface push buttons . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : scroll wheel , no . integrated scroll wheel , l_c_ display ? button . marketing : 'cause we did n't put the clock in it after all , right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh , button supplement special colour ? user interface : speci yes project manager : special form ? user interface : yes d we do have special form . project manager : and special material , rubber , wood , yes . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . total seven point six whatever that means . industrial designer : uh , i think that 's the price . project manager : that 's the price . user interface : one two three four five six seven eight nine industrial designer : maybe it is it just n project manager : eight , eight point two . that 's user interface : nine points , okay , yes . project manager : eight point two , right ? so , we looks like we are well within budget . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay . i guess i should save this i suppose , huh ? marketing : yeah . project manager : oops . uh-huh huh huh . user interface : on the desktop . project manager : i just tried that . my documents , computer . my compu ah oh here it is , yes . industrial designer : ami should for project manager : okay , fine . save . okay good , so that 's the good news . we gon na be popular . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : project manager : um . so that uh i think financing was pretty simple . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : now we would like to have a presentation by the marketing expert on production evaluation . marketing : okay , i 'll take my file down so you can bring it up . 'kay should be able to get it now . 'kay , why do n't you move just to the next slide right away . project manager : you wan na go to the next slide ? marketing : yeah right away . project manager : okay . marketing : okay , well uh obviously my method for uh s m the marketing of this thing is first to ask the big question , will it sell ? and i think we should show this prototype to people from various age and socio-economic groups and see about any fine tuning that maybe little things we have n't thought of . user interface : okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : we ca n't accept every suggestion of course , but maybe we just need to get a few . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and show the the prototype to consumer research groups , we do n't s want somebody to suddenly come to us and tell us that this button is toxic and you know some child will swallow it and then we wo n't sell any . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm . marketing : so we have to get some input from those people . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and then after that we just have to go with our best intuition and you know we like it , we think it 's good , we 're gon na get behind it and sell it . um , next slide please . okay , now the things that i was thinking and th my wish list has really been realised in this prototype . i wanted the shape to be biomorphic , i did n't want anything with angles and all square , i wanted it to be comfy and roundy so we we 've got that . the size is small , the colour 's bright and warm which is what we wanted . we wanted the feel to be as soft as possible , we 'll have the soft buttons industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and the way this is shaped , even though it 's gon na be hard plastic , it feels good in your hand so that 's nice . and functionality i put last on my list because people are n't going to use it before they buy it . industrial designer : marketing : so paradoxically the other features , in other words , the look , the feel um and the shape , that 's what people are gon na get in the store . user interface : fee selling . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : they do n't have a television in the store , they ca n't play with it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um so they 'll be our main selling points . so um th those have been fulfilled by your prototype and go ahead to the next slide please . okay , so um the shape um i think is a a one . that 's really , really excellent shape . the size is small um and th these points are in the importance for the , for the marketing , these are n't i in how i feel . i think that it 's i think that it 's plenty small enough to sell but i think we 're sort of right the scale is one to seven . i think we 're sort of right in the middle as far as c other competitors . user interface : okay . marketing : and our colour i think is great . the colours are bright and warm and we really do great job there . and given um the constraints that we had i think we got it as soft as possible . and then functionality um i think you did a really good job on functionality , obviously we could have ad added different functions but then we 'd disturb something else so i would say that we got to a five out of seven on on functionality . user interface : okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : so i think that basically we 've got a great product and we can get off and running with it . project manager : um i just realised one thing . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : in the financing there was no room for our voice recogniser . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh i do n't know how we can evaluate that or how we can include that , too . marketing : well , um we had what , eight eight euros twenty as our cost ? project manager : eight , eight twenty , yes . industrial designer : eight twenty so marketing : and so we 've got we 've still got four euros to go to spend . industrial designer : we have um four euros , yeah project manager : i mean maximum we have another four point three euros i mean four thirty . marketing : mm-hmm . well um that 's project manager : but i mean we have no way of presenting that to management as you know as a f finished , as a finished product and saying okay with the voice recogniser that costs so much . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so um we just have to beware of that . i mean and know whether the four thirty will really cover that . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well as we know in today 's technic technological world you can do just about anything at any price , the the the problem is quality . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we 're just gon na have to settle for whatever quality that will buy us . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yes , yes . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and um it may not be the greatest quality but it may sell anyway . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , still . marketing : as we 've seen with so many of these kinds of products . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i 'm sorry to interrupt then but i just uh recog i just remembered that there was no that that was not um included uh that there was no room for any special features , okay ? industrial designer : included , yeah . hmm , user interface : yeah mm . project manager : so to beware of that . you wan na go to this next slide , marketing expert ? marketing : uh , well i is n't this my last slide ? project manager : i dunno . marketing : maybe . project manager : yes it is . mm-hmm . marketing : go ahead . i think that was my last slide , yeah . um . mm okay . and i 'm supposed to present this scale on the whiteboard . um and we 're supposed to talk about those things as a team now , so if you put my last slide back up there . i 'm sorry i 've um forgot to do that , um . project manager : why ? wh why you need that up ? marketing : hmm ? well because i ca n't remember what i put on there . okay . industrial designer : marketing : now i 'm supposed to see how long my leash is here . project manager : i think you can make it there . marketing : mm 'kay . you ready . so now we 're all supposed to say what we think . um okay so on shape i gave it a one . wait what would you ra uh one being good and seven being the worst . user interface : worse , okay . marketing : um what do you think the shape is ? one , okay , and be betsy ? project manager : yes i think uh shape is one . industrial designer : yeah , even my yeah , shape is one . marketing : okay , uh-huh one , okay . and how about on size ? on size project manager : you you gave it a four . marketing : i gave it a four , yeah , i feel it 's just average . project manager : um , i dunno . i think i would give it at least a two . marketing : okay . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , even i think it is one . it 's quite small . marketing : okay . okay user interface : marketing : you 're the designer , of course you wan na give it a one . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um and then how about how we doing on colour ? project manager : colour uh i marketing : colour , i gave it a one . i really like all those nice bright , warm colours . project manager : i i like the colours . one . user interface : one . yes . industrial designer : yeah , one . marketing : one , one , one , okay . and how about the feel ? taking into um consideration texture and comfort in the hand . project manager : uh , i think i would give it a two . marketing : okay , i gave it a three , two , user interface : i 'll give three . marketing : yeah ? three . industrial designer : uh maybe two , marketing : two , okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and the next is functionality where i i admit i was a little hard on our team here , but project manager : well it 's also you ca n't really try it out uh the other things you have have more is are more tangible so from that point of view marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : but um i 'll give it a three . marketing : okay . two , okay . industrial designer : uh three , mm-hmm . marketing : three ? okay . well , um . it looks like we 've got got ourselves a pretty good product . um the functionality 's the only place where maybe we have to think about m m maybe , heaven forbid , having another meeting . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : but um otherwise i think we 're we 're ready to go to go with this product . anybody else have any other comments or any other things that we feel we should evaluate ? project manager : uh . here is what we looking at uh satisfaction on for example room for creativity . um . is there more room for creativity or are we absolutely happy ? user interface : we can always improve , yes . industrial designer : maybe we can yeah , include some more buttons and uh um user interface : yes , features . industrial designer : yeah features . we can make the buttons few buttons smaller . uh i think they are quite big , so i think i i mean we can just have small buttons and more buttons in that case . if we want to have more features than that . marketing : mm-hmm . well then again if we 're gon na um do the speech recognition thing we 're gon there gon na be some buttons that are gon na have to be added for that for the recording of the the speech . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , definitely . user interface : yes . voices . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : so that that 's where we 're gon na have to do maybe we can eliminate one of the mute buttons , instead of having two mute buttons . industrial designer : yeah , definitely , yeah , two mu mute buttons . user interface : yes . yes . marketing : and um then maybe we can do something with the um the volume control . maybe we can put that all on one button . um and a couple of other th maybe comp uh consolidate some of the usage an and see what we can do with that . project manager : y um al always bearing in mind that right now we are of course well within the budget industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and maybe project manager : and that we still you know we probably ca n't , with this particular item , we probably ca n't just uh add a whole lot of more things . marketing : mm-hmm . no . project manager : uh um we need uh you know we need to leave space money-wise for the voice recogniser . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so th the question really is how do we feel with the project process ? uh , um are we happy with the creativity that has passed here or we 're not happy with the new product we created or that was created ? uh i think personally i think uh i 'm pretty happy . marketing : i 'm pretty happy with it too , yeah um , industrial designer : even i 'm happy . marketing : it 's something i think i can market . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and then the next question is are we happy with the leadership of this project ? uh marketing : i think you 've done a good job , miss leader . user interface : yes , yes you 've done a good job . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , definitely . project manager : and i think team work i think was very very good , i think we really industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah i d i do too i think we worked well together as a team , yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh i think we are we happy with the means we used ? we used whiteboard , we did n't use digital p well digital pens i guess are these things . marketing : yeah maybe we could 've used the whiteboard a little bit more , yeah , user interface : whiteboard more , yes , yes . industrial designer : yeah , probably . marketing : we did n't use that enough . project manager : yes , we could . uh , it 's maybe not in the best position in the room um you know like sometimes it 's positioned so that it 's much better visible for everybody and i think from that point of view we sort of ignored it a little bit . marketing : mm-hmm . and we used the slide because it was better positioned . project manager : yes , i think so , i think absolutely , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm i think that 's true mm-hmm . project manager : and fortunately we all had slides presentation which made it a little easier . um did we new did we find new ideas ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think we did . industrial designer : yeah , many . marketing : i think we were we were very good , yeah , mm . project manager : i think we we did , uh in more than one respect and uh so i think we did very well here . marketing : mm-hmm . okay . project manager : are the costs within budget ? yes , yes . uh is the project evaluated ? yes . marketing : yes , yes . user interface : industrial designer : yeah . project manager : um then celebration . marketing : celebration . user interface : cel celebration yes , yes . industrial designer : ah . marketing : today we have apple juice and after we sell m million of 'em we have champagne . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : so i i thank you all very much . um , i think this was very good and um industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : i think we did come up with a new product that 's uh feasible . feasible from the production point of view and feasible from a marketing point of view . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : so , thank you . marketing : okay . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : thank you . industrial designer : thank you very much . marketing : okay . watch i i have my cord behind you here . user interface : okay . marketing : okay . project manager : i always get it on here , but getting it off is industrial designer : do we do we have some time left ? uh you have user interface : they say it 's forty minutes . project manager : ah yes we have time later marketing : but we we were told we could end the final meeting at any time , whenever we felt we were finished . project manager : but we do n't user interface : okay . industrial designer : oh , alright . </s>
<s> summarize the recap of the last meeting regarding the presentation by user interface . </s> project manager : and so here we go . uh it was discussed in the last meeting uh which was opened by the presentation from the interface um designer that uh looks would be very important on this new remote user interface : designer . marketing : project manager : and um it is to send messages of course to the tv . it should have nine channel buttons , a next button , volume buttons , subtitle buttons , switch to control features , colour contrast , sharpness etcetera . it should have a memory switch , a mute button in case the telephone rings or something . uh speech recognition is one of her very f favourite personal uh features she would like see d d to be integrated in this um in this new remote . um . should be child friendly design with few buttons , colourful maybe with s star shaped or other shaped buttons . um she uh presented also an oversized remote which she guarantees nobody will ever be able to lose . user interface : project manager : um marketing : and she was challenged on that point project manager : that 's right . user interface : yes . </s>
<s> summarize the recap of the last meeting regarding the presentation by industrial designer . </s> project manager : but uh her very f personal favourite really she , she would very much like to see a speech recogniser integrated in this remote . the industrial designer um presented her uh thoughts on the issue . she would like a special case made out of plastic that is very strong , not using any harmful materials , should be recyclable and should be colourful . should have an integrated circuit board that 's highly sophisticated and temperature resistant . she would like to see a timer and or alarm facility integrated . uh technically this thing would also have a resistor and a capacitor , diode transistor , resonator , and if possible a rechargeable battery . uh and of course a circuit board . and how it would works , you press the button , the chip is morse morse code related relays the uh to the generat to the generator amplification and uh the circuit board is very inexpensive to build and so she thinks this is a great feature uh to to to consider . marketing : okay . </s>
<s> summarize the recap of the last meeting regarding the presentation by marketing . </s>  </s>
<s> what did industrial designer say about the appearance during the discussion about the design of the prototype ? </s> user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : just the look like , the button part i 'll explain . industrial designer : yeah . uh so this is our what uh we have made . this is a model of the remote control which we are going to build . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh this is us in a snail shape so uh it it is attractive marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : um and it 's it 's blue in colour uh bright and uh it has yellow buttons and all the different colour buttons marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : so it is a uh uh a looks-wise it is beautiful . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh and also compact in shape . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : uh um and also i it it will be easily fit into into the hands and you can access all the buttons easily . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . good . industrial designer : yeah , project manager : industrial designer : oops , sorry . marketing : you used to have all the buttons user interface : industrial designer : um yeah and um uh the material which we are going to use for the case is uh plastic and uh w which which is s strong um uh and also uh for the um the material is plastic and uh for the buttons it is uh s soft rubber um and als marketing : oh that 's good , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : no , that 's nice and friendly . industrial designer : yeah because uh uh you 'll be touching the buttons more so it is soft when you touch it . marketing : mm-hmm . mm . project manager : mm-hmm , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and then um uh for the for the led , for the light emitting diode it is a fluorescent green marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and it 's a a it is a bulb like an ordinary infrared . marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what features did user interface present regarding the design of the prototype ? </s> industrial designer : and and the button button 's part uh will be explained by f francina . user interface : okay . marketing : okay . user interface : now the um we decided upon including certain features on our remote . now these features includes the s um signal emitting uh signal it 's the led or l_e_d_ the infrared . project manager : mm-hmm , marketing : yeah , okay , mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : now uh we have included the switch on and off button . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : now we have included another feature that is the mute button marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : on the side of the model . then we have included one to nine buttons marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : for controlling the programmes the different channels . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : we have also included two buttons for increasing or decreasing the volume . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and we have also included two buttons for scrolling up and scrolling down the programme channels . now our our model also contains a button which is called as the menu button . project manager : what kind of button ? user interface : menu button . project manager : menu ? uh menu th menu , uh one one . user interface : yes , menu marketing : menu button . user interface : at the centre marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : we have included a button which is fluorescent green colour and this is the menu button which will control the colour , sharpness , brightness marketing : mm-hmm . of the screen . mm , mm-hmm . user interface : of this uh picture . we have also included a button which is called as the swapping button . now this is uh a special , special feature which we have included . now this button is an elongated shaped button and this is slightly flexible so if it is turned towards the right it will take to the previous channel , if it is turned towards the right it will take to the next channel . it will take the user to the previous and the next channel so this is a swapping button . marketing : the next channel in the numeric pattern , or user interface : no , swapping is if if example you 're you 're watching the second channel and then you go to the tenth channel and if you want to go back to the second channel you can swap , this button . marketing : yeah , mm-hmm . mm . okay , okay . user interface : and at the end , it this remote has inbuilt voice recogniser which c which will recognise the user 's voice and then it 'll act accordingly . project manager : okay . mm-hmm . mm-hmm . user interface : so this is our proposed model . </s>
<s> what was the feedback regarding the prototype of the remote ? </s> user interface : now the marketing expert has to marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : tell , yeah . user interface : give her suggestion whether it 'll be sellable or it 'll be cost effective . industrial designer : marketing : okay , well um what what i really like a lot about it is that you can reach the whole thing with one thumb , user interface : yes , yes . marketing : that you can really hold it in one h you do n't need two hands industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and it 's easily reachable even for somebody with a small hand , yeah ? project manager : yes the buttons are all raised , right ? marketing : the buttons are all raised project manager : are raised , mm-hmm . marketing : and if you hold it in the centre of your hand you can even reach it over here so you do n't have to turn it around , turn it upside down , move it up , up and down , project manager : right . or have two hands to operate it , yeah . marketing : i really like that . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : you really did a good job on that , my little designers . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um and um i like the idea that the on-off button is in a really prominent place . that 's that 's a really good good thing . project manager : yes , and it sort of sticks up so that you really marketing : yeah , that 's great . project manager : you do n't have to g first go like oh yeah here it 's on and yeah , mm-hmm . industrial designer : hmm . mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : abs okay . marketing : the colour 's very attractive . um the um these buttons uh around here are the mute user interface : no , these the front buttons which are here , are the mute buttons . marketing : and these mm-hmm on both sides they 're mute ? user interface : yes , yes . marketing : so you can push either one ? okay . project manager : so if you 're left-handed or right-handed it does n't matter . marketing : and this brings the menu up on the screen ? user interface : pardon me ? this is the menu yes , yes . marketing : this brings the menu up on the screen and the orange ones are user interface : a the the these these two are th to increase or decrease the volumes , marketing : okay . user interface : and these two are to uh scroll the programme channels . marketing : f f okay . user interface : scroll up or scroll down the channels . marketing : right , very good . uh it looks mm looks like something i can sell . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : okay and now i 'm supposed to project manager : well , i have one question marketing : yeah . project manager : uh will there be anything written on the buttons , like that people know , or they have to learn that from a piece of paper which button does what ? user interface : yes , it will have uh these buttons will have the numbers and all the rest of the buttons will have symbols . industrial designer : ah . yeah , definitely . project manager : will have symbols so that that that the user really knows you know and does n't have to first learn it user interface : yes , which can be easily recognised . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah . yeah . marketing : good point because we need the symbols 'cause we 're going into an international market we ca n't have anything that 's language dependent . industrial designer : yeah of course , and also project manager : yeah . but anyway it would ha i i i it has to have some kind of of symbols , text or something so that people kn industrial designer : yeah . yeah we can text . marketing : symbols on it . mm-hmm , mm-hmm . industrial designer : text that we can have on the case itself , project manager : that 's right . industrial designer : we can it will be printed on the case and symbols as well as the buttons . yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what did marketing suggest during giving feedback for the prototype of the remote ? </s> user interface : and and one more feature is we we have a holder for this remote which is an oyster shape . marketing : mm , 'kay , mm . mm-hmm . user interface : a shell shape . marketing : for the snail , yeah , mm-hmm , project manager : right , mm-hmm . user interface : yes , yes . industrial designer : yeah . so it is marketing : we have the snail shell . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : yes , snail shell . industrial designer : yeah , marketing : he goes right back into his shell . industrial designer : yeah shell . project manager : right . marketing : well you know i think we could do something really funny with this too because the snail is known to be slow industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and we could have some sort of little comic effect on our marketing about how this is a rapid snail or something like that user interface : mm-hmm . y yes industrial designer : yeah , of course , yeah . </s>
<s> what were the special features for the remote discussed during feedback for the prototype ? </s> project manager : now what , what are our special features for the marketing ? marketing : so project manager : that 's really the voice recognition that 's really unusual marketing : i think voice recognition is our big selling point industrial designer : mm . mm-hmm . marketing : 'cause nobody else seems to have that in in this price range . project manager : and then , and then the other thing would basically be sh shape or practicality of use . you know . marketing : uh well i think that everybody 's gon na say their remote control is practical . i think we have to , we have to dwell on on on the appearance . project manager : colours . mm-hmm . marketing : we 're really gon na have the be the project manager : cutest . marketing : cutest remote control on the block . project manager : yeah . marketing : so i think we have to play with the image , play with the snail image um play with the visual and then the voice recognition . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : i think those are the two things to push . the look and the voice recognition . they 're gon na be our two selling points . project manager : okay , now uh having said that </s>
<s> summarize the financing of the remote . </s> project manager : now we 're gon na talk about financing . marketing : ah , but in my instructions i think it said i was supposed to go to the board and do something . project manager : well , there is a production evaluation . is that you ? marketing : yeah , that 's me . project manager : but that 's after the financing . marketing : oh , okay . project manager : see ? fi see ? marketing : sorry , sorry . mm-mm . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : um . okay , we had looks and voice recognition . okay now on the financing we bring up the mm there it is . okay uh energy source we say that 's battery , right ? marketing : that 's right . project manager : okay , now . so we i guess we use one . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : what ? t cell or chart you are trying to change is protected . well , that 's nice . she told me i could just ch change it here and then it would it does n't work . hmm . marketing : can you just fill it in in the yellow boxes ? or project manager : oh , okay yeah , okay , industrial designer : yeah . project manager : let 's see . okay , one , okay . oh go away . um kinetic source so that 's in the energy source that 's all we need . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : uh electronics , simple chip on print ? is that 's what we 're using ? industrial designer : yeah , project manager : one of those ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : come on . okay , one . uh regular chip on print . no . that 's all we need , the one industrial designer : no . yeah . project manager : case , uncurved flat , single curved , double curved . marketing : well . industrial designer : this is a user interface : single curve ? mm . marketing : i guess it 's double curved . project manager : double curved ? one of those ? marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : case materi s supplements . plastic we said , right ? user interface : plastic . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : uh wood , rubber ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : rubber , because we 're gon na have the soft buttons . project manager : uh but , yes but industrial designer : i think uh that is uh f for rubbers that is uh yeah case material . project manager : that 's just for the case material , user interface : is this for the case ? yes . project manager : so special colours though , we having that , marketing : oh okay , the mm-hmm , mm ' kay . project manager : right ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : and then we have to interface push buttons . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : scroll wheel , no . integrated scroll wheel , l_c_ display ? button . marketing : 'cause we did n't put the clock in it after all , right ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : uh , button supplement special colour ? user interface : speci yes project manager : special form ? user interface : yes d we do have special form . project manager : and special material , rubber , wood , yes . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . total seven point six whatever that means . industrial designer : uh , i think that 's the price . project manager : that 's the price . user interface : one two three four five six seven eight nine industrial designer : maybe it is it just n project manager : eight , eight point two . that 's user interface : nine points , okay , yes . project manager : eight point two , right ? so , we looks like we are well within budget . user interface : okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : in the financing there was no room for our voice recogniser . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh i do n't know how we can evaluate that or how we can include that , too . marketing : well , um we had what , eight eight euros twenty as our cost ? project manager : eight , eight twenty , yes . industrial designer : eight twenty so marketing : and so we 've got we 've still got four euros to go to spend . industrial designer : we have um four euros , yeah project manager : i mean maximum we have another four point three euros i mean four thirty . marketing : mm-hmm . well um that 's project manager : but i mean we have no way of presenting that to management as you know as a f finished , as a finished product and saying okay with the voice recogniser that costs so much . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : so um we just have to beware of that . i mean and know whether the four thirty will really cover that . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : well as we know in today 's technic technological world you can do just about anything at any price , the the the problem is quality . project manager : industrial designer : yeah . marketing : so we 're just gon na have to settle for whatever quality that will buy us . industrial designer : yeah , user interface : yes , yes . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and um it may not be the greatest quality but it may sell anyway . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , still . marketing : as we 've seen with so many of these kinds of products . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : i 'm sorry to interrupt then but i just uh recog i just remembered that there was no that that was not um included uh that there was no room for any special features , okay ? industrial designer : included , yeah . hmm , </s>
<s> what were marketing 's comments on the remote during the project evaluation ? </s> project manager : now we would like to have a presentation by the marketing expert on production evaluation . marketing : okay , i 'll take my file down so you can bring it up . 'kay should be able to get it now . 'kay , why do n't you move just to the next slide right away . project manager : you wan na go to the next slide ? marketing : yeah right away . project manager : okay . marketing : okay , well uh obviously my method for uh s m the marketing of this thing is first to ask the big question , will it sell ? and i think we should show this prototype to people from various age and socio-economic groups and see about any fine tuning that maybe little things we have n't thought of . user interface : okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : we ca n't accept every suggestion of course , but maybe we just need to get a few . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and show the the prototype to consumer research groups , we do n't s want somebody to suddenly come to us and tell us that this button is toxic and you know some child will swallow it and then we wo n't sell any . industrial designer : mm-hmm . mm . marketing : so we have to get some input from those people . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and then after that we just have to go with our best intuition and you know we like it , we think it 's good , we 're gon na get behind it and sell it . um , next slide please . okay , now the things that i was thinking and th my wish list has really been realised in this prototype . i wanted the shape to be biomorphic , i did n't want anything with angles and all square , i wanted it to be comfy and roundy so we we 've got that . the size is small , the colour 's bright and warm which is what we wanted . we wanted the feel to be as soft as possible , we 'll have the soft buttons industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : and the way this is shaped , even though it 's gon na be hard plastic , it feels good in your hand so that 's nice . and functionality i put last on my list because people are n't going to use it before they buy it . industrial designer : marketing : so paradoxically the other features , in other words , the look , the feel um and the shape , that 's what people are gon na get in the store . user interface : fee selling . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : they do n't have a television in the store , they ca n't play with it . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : um so they 'll be our main selling points . so um th those have been fulfilled by your prototype and go ahead to the next slide please . okay , so um the shape um i think is a a one . that 's really , really excellent shape . the size is small um and th these points are in the importance for the , for the marketing , these are n't i in how i feel . i think that it 's i think that it 's plenty small enough to sell but i think we 're sort of right the scale is one to seven . i think we 're sort of right in the middle as far as c other competitors . user interface : okay . marketing : and our colour i think is great . the colours are bright and warm and we really do great job there . and given um the constraints that we had i think we got it as soft as possible . and then functionality um i think you did a really good job on functionality , obviously we could have ad added different functions but then we 'd disturb something else so i would say that we got to a five out of seven on on functionality . user interface : okay . industrial designer : mm-hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the product evaluation that was during the project evaluation . </s> marketing : go ahead . i think that was my last slide , yeah . um . mm okay . and i 'm supposed to present this scale on the whiteboard . um and we 're supposed to talk about those things as a team now , so if you put my last slide back up there . i 'm sorry i 've um forgot to do that , um . project manager : why ? wh why you need that up ? marketing : hmm ? well because i ca n't remember what i put on there . okay . industrial designer : marketing : now i 'm supposed to see how long my leash is here . project manager : i think you can make it there . marketing : mm 'kay . you ready . so now we 're all supposed to say what we think . um okay so on shape i gave it a one . wait what would you ra uh one being good and seven being the worst . user interface : worse , okay . marketing : um what do you think the shape is ? one , okay , and be betsy ? project manager : yes i think uh shape is one . industrial designer : yeah , even my yeah , shape is one . marketing : okay , uh-huh one , okay . and how about on size ? on size project manager : you you gave it a four . marketing : i gave it a four , yeah , i feel it 's just average . project manager : um , i dunno . i think i would give it at least a two . marketing : okay . mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah , even i think it is one . it 's quite small . marketing : okay . okay user interface : marketing : you 're the designer , of course you wan na give it a one . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : um and then how about how we doing on colour ? project manager : colour uh i marketing : colour , i gave it a one . i really like all those nice bright , warm colours . project manager : i i like the colours . one . user interface : one . yes . industrial designer : yeah , one . marketing : one , one , one , okay . and how about the feel ? taking into um consideration texture and comfort in the hand . project manager : uh , i think i would give it a two . marketing : okay , i gave it a three , two , user interface : i 'll give three . marketing : yeah ? three . industrial designer : uh maybe two , marketing : two , okay . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : and the next is functionality where i i admit i was a little hard on our team here , but project manager : well it 's also you ca n't really try it out uh the other things you have have more is are more tangible so from that point of view marketing : yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : but um i 'll give it a three . marketing : okay . two , okay . industrial designer : uh three , mm-hmm . marketing : three ? okay . well , um . it looks like we 've got got ourselves a pretty good product . um the functionality 's the only place where maybe we have to think about m m maybe , heaven forbid , having another meeting . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : so th the question really is how do we feel with the project process ? uh , um are we happy with the creativity that has passed here or we 're not happy with the new product we created or that was created ? uh i think personally i think uh i 'm pretty happy . marketing : i 'm pretty happy with it too , yeah um , industrial designer : even i 'm happy . marketing : it 's something i think i can market . yeah . </s>
<s> what was discussed for improvement of the remote during project evaluation ? </s> marketing : but um otherwise i think we 're we 're ready to go to go with this product . anybody else have any other comments or any other things that we feel we should evaluate ? project manager : uh . here is what we looking at uh satisfaction on for example room for creativity . um . is there more room for creativity or are we absolutely happy ? user interface : we can always improve , yes . industrial designer : maybe we can yeah , include some more buttons and uh um user interface : yes , features . industrial designer : yeah features . we can make the buttons few buttons smaller . uh i think they are quite big , so i think i i mean we can just have small buttons and more buttons in that case . if we want to have more features than that . marketing : mm-hmm . well then again if we 're gon na um do the speech recognition thing we 're gon there gon na be some buttons that are gon na have to be added for that for the recording of the the speech . industrial designer : yeah . yeah , definitely . user interface : yes . voices . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : so that that 's where we 're gon na have to do maybe we can eliminate one of the mute buttons , instead of having two mute buttons . industrial designer : yeah , definitely , yeah , two mu mute buttons . user interface : yes . yes . marketing : and um then maybe we can do something with the um the volume control . maybe we can put that all on one button . um and a couple of other th maybe comp uh consolidate some of the usage an and see what we can do with that . project manager : y um al always bearing in mind that right now we are of course well within the budget industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : and maybe project manager : and that we still you know we probably ca n't , with this particular item , we probably ca n't just uh add a whole lot of more things . marketing : mm-hmm . no . project manager : uh um we need uh you know we need to leave space money-wise for the voice recogniser . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . </s>
<s> what was the feedback for leadership , teamwork and means used during the pro evaluation ? </s> project manager : and then the next question is are we happy with the leadership of this project ? uh marketing : i think you 've done a good job , miss leader . user interface : yes , yes you 've done a good job . industrial designer : yeah , yeah , definitely . project manager : and i think team work i think was very very good , i think we really industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah i d i do too i think we worked well together as a team , yeah . mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : and uh i think we are we happy with the means we used ? we used whiteboard , we did n't use digital p well digital pens i guess are these things . marketing : yeah maybe we could 've used the whiteboard a little bit more , yeah , user interface : whiteboard more , yes , yes . industrial designer : yeah , probably . marketing : we did n't use that enough . project manager : yes , we could . uh , it 's maybe not in the best position in the room um you know like sometimes it 's positioned so that it 's much better visible for everybody and i think from that point of view we sort of ignored it a little bit . marketing : mm-hmm . and we used the slide because it was better positioned . project manager : yes , i think so , i think absolutely , industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm i think that 's true mm-hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> professor b : ok so uh today we 're looking at a number of uh things we 're trying and uh fortunately for listeners to this uh we lost some of it 's visual but um got tables in front of us . um what is what does combo mean ? phd c : so combo is um a system where we have these features that go through a network and then this same string of features but low - pass filtered with the low - pass filter used in the msg features . and so these low - pass filtered goes through m eh another mlp and then the linear output of these two mlp 's are combined just by adding the values and then there is this klt . um the output is used as uh features as well . professor b : um so let me try to restate this and see if i have it right . there is uh there is the features uh there 's the ogi features and then um those features um go through a contextual uh l l let 's take this bottom arr one pointed to by the bottom arrow . um those features go through a contextualized klt . then these features also uh get um low - pass filtered phd c : yeah . yeah so yeah i could perhaps draw this on the blackboard professor b : sure . yeah . yeah . phd c : yeah . phd d : the graph , yeah another one . professor b : yeah , that 's good . phd c : so we have these features from ogi that goes through the three paths . professor b : yeah . three , ok . phd c : the first is a klt using several frames of the features . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd c : the second path is uh mlp also using nine frames several frames of features professor b : yeah . uh - huh . phd c : the third path is this low - pass filter . professor b : uh - huh . phd c : uh , mlp professor b : aha ! aha ! phd c : adding the outputs just like in the second propose the the proposal from for the first evaluation . professor b : yeah ? yeah . yeah . phd c : and then the klt and then the two together again . professor b : no , the klt . and those two together . that 's it . phd d : two htk . professor b : ok so that 's that 's this bottom one . phd c : um . so this is yeah professor b : and so uh and then the the the one at the top and i presume these things that uh are in yellow are in yellow because overall they 're the best ? phd c : yeah that 's the reason , yeah . professor b : oh let 's focus on them then so what 's the block diagram for the one above it ? phd c : for the f the f first yellow line you mean ? professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah so it 's uh basically s the same except that we do n't have this uh low - pass filtering so we have only two streams . phd d : step . phd c : well . there 's there 's no low low - pass processing used as additional feature stream . professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . do you e um they mentioned made some uh when i was on the phone with sunil they they mentioned some weighting scheme that was used to evaluate all of these numbers . phd c : yeah . uh actually the way things seems to um well it 's uh forty percent for ti - digit , sixty for all the speechdat - cars , well all these languages . ehm the well match is forty , medium thirty five and high mismatch twenty - five . yeah . professor b : um and we do n't have the ti - digits part yet ? phd c : uh , no . but yeah . generally what you observe with ti - digits is that the result are very close whatever the the system . professor b : ok . and so have you put all these numbers together into a single number representing that ? phd c : yeah . professor b : i mean not phd c : uh not yet . professor b : ok so that should be pretty easy to do and that would be good phd c : no . mmm yeah , yeah . professor b : then we could compare the two and say what was better . phd c : mmm . yeah . professor b : um and how does this compare to the numbers oh so ogi two is just the top top row ? phd d : yeah . phd c : so yeah to actually ogi two is the the baseline with the ogi features but this is not exactly the result that they have because they 've they 're still made some changes in the features and well but uh actually our results are better than their results . um i do n't know by how much because they did not send us the new results professor b : uh ok so the one one place where it looks like we 're messing things up a bit is in the highly mismatched italian . phd c : yeah . yeah . yeah there is something funny happening here because yeah . professor b : yeah . phd c : but there are thirty - six and then sometimes we are we are we are around forty - two and professor b : now up uh so one of the ideas that you had mentioned last time was having a a second um silence detection . phd c : yeah . so there are some results here phd d : for the italian . phd c : uh so the third and the fifth line of the table phd d : for this one . professor b : so filt is what that is ? phd c : filt , yeah phd d : yeah . phd c : um yeah so it seems f for the the well match and mismatched condition it 's uh it brings something . uh but uh actually apparently there are there 's no room left for any silence detector at the server side because of the delay . uh well professor b : oh we ca n't do it . oh ok . phd d : for that for that we professor b : too bad . good idea , but ca n't do it . phd c : yeah . except i do n't know because they i think they are still working well . professor b : uh - huh . phd c : uh t two days ago they were still working on this trying to reduce the delay of the silence detector so but yeah if we had time perhaps we could try to find uh some kind of compromise between the delay that 's on the handset and on the server side . perhaps try to reduce the delay on the handset and but well hmm for the moment they have this large delay on the the feature computation and so we do n't professor b : ok . so alright so for now at least that 's not there you have some results with low - pass filter cepstrum does n't have a huge effect but it but it looks like it you know maybe could help in a couple places . uh little bit . phd c : yeah . professor b : um and um um yeah and uh let 's see what else did we have in there ? uh i guess it makes a l um at this point this is i i guess i should probably look at these others a little bit uh and you you yellowed these out uh but uh uh oh i see yeah that that one you ca n't use because of the delay . those look pretty good . um let 's see that one well even the just the the second row does n't look that bad right ? that 's just uh yeah ? and and that looks like an interesting one too . phd d : mmm yeah . phd c : actually the yeah the second line is uh pretty much like the first line in yellow except that we do n't have this klt on the first on the left part of the diagram . we just have the features as they are . professor b : mm - hmm . yeah . yeah so when we do this weighted measure we should compare the two cuz it might even come out better . and it 's it 's it 's a little slightly simpler . phd c : mm - hmm . yeah . professor b : so so there 's so i i would put that one also as a as a maybe . uh and it yeah and it 's actually does does significantly better on the uh uh highly mismatched italian , so s and little worse on the mis on the mm case , but uh well yeah it 's worse than a few things phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so uh let 's see how that c that c c see how that comes out on their their measure and are are we running this uh for ti - digits or uh phd c : yeah . professor b : now is ti di is is that part of the result that they get for the uh development th the results that they 're supposed to get at the end of end of the month , the ti - digits are there also ? phd c : yeah . yeah . it 's included , yeah . professor b : oh ok . ok . and see what else there is here . um oh i see the one i was looking down here at the the o the row below the lower yellowed one . uh that 's uh that 's with the reduced uh klt size reduced dimensionality . phd c : mm - hmm ? yeah . yeah . professor b : what happens there is it 's around the same and so you could reduce the dimension as you were saying before a bit perhaps . phd c : yeah , it 's it 's significantly worse well but mm - hmm . professor b : it 's significantly worse it 's it 's uh it 's it 's mostly worse . phd c : exc - except for the hm phd d : for many a mismatch it 's worse . professor b : yeah . but it is little . i mean not not by a huge amount , i do n't know . what are what are the sizes of any of these sets , i i 'm i 'm sure you told me before , but i 've forgotten . so you know how many words are in uh one of these test sets ? phd d : i do n't remember . professor b : about ? phd c : um it 's it depends well the well matched is generally larger than the other sets and i think it 's around two thousand or three thousand words perhaps , at least . phd d : ye but words well word i do n't know . phd c : hmm ? the words , yeah . s sentences . phd d : sentences . phd c : some sets have five hundred sentences , so . phd d : yeah . professor b : so the so the sets so the test sets are between five hundred and two thousand sentences , let 's say and each sentence on the average has four or five digits or is it most of them longer or phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah for the italian even seven digits y more or less phd c : it it d seven digits . phd d : but sometime the sentence have only one digit and sometime uh like uh the number of uh credit cards , something like that . professor b : mm - hmm . right , so between one and sixteen . see the i mean the reason i 'm asking is is is we have all these small differences and i do n't know how seriously to take them , right ? phd c : mm - hmm ? professor b : so uh i if if you had uh just you know to give an example , if you had uh um if you had a thousand words then uh a a tenth of a percent would just be one word , phd c : yeah . professor b : right ? so so it would n't mean anything . phd d : yeah . phd c : yeah . professor b : um so um yeah it be kind of i 'd kind of like to know what the sizes of these test sets were actually . phd c : yeah . phd d : the size that we have ? phd c : we could we could run run some kind of significance tests professor b : yeah since these well also just to know the numbers , phd d : yeah . professor b : right . so these these are word error rates phd c : yeah . professor b : so this is on how many words . phd d : yeah we have the result that the output of the htk professor b : yeah . phd d : the number of of sentences , no it 's the number is n't . phd c : yeah sure sure . yeah sure . professor b : yeah so anyway if you could just mail out what those numbers are and then then that that be great . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah . professor b : um what else is there here ? um see the second second from the bottom it says sil , but this is some different kind of silence or thing or what was that ? phd d : it the the output silence of the mlp . phd c : oh yeah i see . phd d : it 's only one small experiment to know what happened . to apply also to in include also the the silence of the mlp we have the fifty - six form and the silence to pick up the silence and we include those . professor b : yes . uh - huh , uh - huh . the silence plus the klt output ? oh so you 're only using the silence . phd c : yeah . phd d : yeah , because when we apply the klt phd c : no they 're i think there is this silence in addition to the um klt outputs phd d : in addition , yes . phd c : it is because we we we just keep uh we do n't keep all the dimensions after the klt phd d : in addition t phd c : and yeah . phd d : and we not s we are not sure if we pick we have the silence . phd c : so we try to add the silence also in addition to the these twenty - eight dimensions . professor b : i see . ok . and what and what 's ogi forty - five ? the bottom one there ? phd c : uh it 's o it 's ogi two , it 's so the th it 's the features from the first line phd d : it 's in fact ogi two . phd c : and yeah . professor b : right , but i mean what 's the what does the last row mean ? phd c : so it 's uh basically this but without the klt on the from the left path . professor b : i thought that was the one i thought that was the second row . so what 's the difference between the second phd c : uh the second line you do n't have this combo stuff so you just professor b : so this is like the second line but with with the combo stuff . phd c : yeah . yeah . phd d : and with the all the output of the combo . professor b : ok . yeah . phd c : yeah . professor b : ok , so alright so it looks to me i guess the same given that we have to take the filt ones out of the the running because of this delay problem so it looks to me like the ones you said i agree are are the ones to look at phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but i just would add the the the second row one phd c : yeah . professor b : and then um if we can um oh yeah also when when they 're using this weighting scheme of forty , thirty - five , twenty - five is that on the percentages or on the raw errors ? i guess it 's probably on the percentages right ? phd c : uh i guess , yeah . professor b : yeah ok . phd c : i guess , yeah . mmm . professor b : alright . phd c : it 's not clear here . professor b : ok . maybe maybe they 'll argue about it . um ok so if we can know what how many words are in each and then um dave uh dave promised to get us something tomorrow which will be there as far as they 've gotten friday phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and then we 'll operate with that phd c : yeah . professor b : and uh how long did it i guess if we 're not doing all these things if we 're only doing um um i guess since this is development data it 's legitimate to do more than one , right ? i mean ordinarily if in final test data you do n't want to do several and and take the best phd c : yeah . mmm . professor b : that 's that 's that 's not proper but if this is development data we could still look at a couple . phd c : yeah . we can yeah . sure . but we have to decide i mean we have to fix the system on this d on this data , to choose the best professor b : yeah . i right . phd c : and these professor b : but the question is when when do we fix the system , phd c : but we could professor b : do we fix the system uh tomorrow or do we fix the system on tuesday ? i yeah , ok except that we do have to write it up . phd c : i think we fixed on tuesday , yeah . yeah . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : also , so phd c : yeah . yeah . uh yeah well . well basically it 's this with perhaps some kind of printing and some some other @ @ . professor b : right so maybe what we do is we we we uh as soon as we get the data from them we start the training and so forth phd c : yeah but mm - hmm . professor b : but we start the write - up right away because as you say there there 's only minor differences between these . phd c : i think you we could we could start soon , yeah . professor b : yeah . phd c : write up something . professor b : yeah , and and i i would you know , i would i 'd kind of like to see it phd c : um yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : maybe i can i can edit it a bit uh sure . the my what in this si i in this situation is my forte which is english . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh h yeah . have y have you seen alt d do they have a format for how they want the system descriptions or anything ? phd c : uh not really . um there is the format of the table which is quite impressive . professor b : yeah ? uh i see . yes , for those who are listening to this and not looking at it uh it 's not really that impressive , it 's just tiny . it 's all these little categories set a , set b , set c , multi - condition , clean . uh no mitigation . wow . do you know what no what no mitigation means here ? phd c : um it should be the the problem with the error channel error professor b : oh that 's probably the this is probably channel error stuff phd c : well , you professor b : huh ? oh this is i right , it says right above here channel channel error resilience , phd c : yeah . yeah . professor b : yeah . so recognition performance is just the top part , actually . uh and they have yes , split between seen databases and non - seen so basically between development and and evaluation . phd c : yeah . professor b : and so right , it 's presumed there 's all sorts of tuning that 's gone on on the see what they call seen databases and there wo n't be tuning for the uh unseen . multi - condition multi - condition . so they have looks like they have uh uh phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so they splitting up between the ti - digits and everything else , i see . so the everything else is the speechdat - car , that 's the multi multilingual phd c : yeah , so it 's not divided between languages you mean or professor b : well , it is . phd c : it just professor b : it is , but there 's also there 's these tables over here for the for the ti - digits and these tables over here for the car data which is which is i guess all the multilingual stuff phd c : oh yeah . professor b : and then uh there 's they also split up between multi - condition and clean only . phd c : yeah . for ti - digits . yeah , actually yeah . for the ti - digits they want to train on clean and on noisy professor b : yeah . phd c : and yeah . professor b : so we 're doing that also , i guess . phd c : uh yeah . but uh we actually do we have the features ? yeah . for the clean ti - digits but we did not test it yet . uh the clean training stuff . professor b : well anyway , sounds like there 'll be a lot to do just to work with our partners to fill out the tables over the next uh next few days phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : i guess they have to send it out let 's see the thirty - first is uh uh wednesday and i think the it has to be there by some hour uh european time on wednesday phd c : hmm - hmm . professor b : so i think basically phd d : we lost time uh wednesday maybe because that the difference in the time may be is a long different of the time . professor b : e excuse me ? phd d : maybe the thursday the twelfth of the night of the thurs - thirty - one is is not valid in europe . phd c : yeah . phd d : we do n't know is happening . professor b : yes , so i mean i think we have to actually get it done tuesday phd d : tuesday . professor b : right because i i think phd c : yeah , well . except if if it 's the thirty - one at midnight or i do n't know we can still do some work on wednesday morning . professor b : yeah well . w i is but is is it midni i thought it was actually something like five pm on phd c : yeah , well . yeah . phd d : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : was like i thought it was five pm or something , i did n't think it was midnight . i thought they said they wanted everything by phd d : yeah , five pm . professor b : well , so five pm their time is is if phd d : not five pm , three pm . professor b : three pm . phd d : three pm . professor b : alright , that 's six in the morning here . phd c : it 's d no . phd d : uh no three three a - three pm ? phd c : no , we are wondering about the the the hour that we have to eh i do n't know if it 's three pm it 's phd d : oh yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . three pm here is in europe midnight . phd c : yeah , it 's it 's midnight but professor b : yes , yes , but i did n't think it was midnight that it was due , i thought it was due at some hour during the day like five pm or something . phd d : oh ok . mm - hmm . mm - hmm , professor b : in which case phd d : maybe . professor b : so i i uh well we should look but my assumption is that we basically have to be done tuesday . um so then next thursday we can sort of have a little aftermath phd d : yeah . professor b : but then then we 'll actually have the new data which is the german and the danish phd c : yeah . professor b : but that really will be much less work because uh the system will be fixed phd c : yeah . professor b : so all we 'll do is take whatever they have and and uh and run it through the process . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh we wo n't be changing the training on anything phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so there 'll be no new training , there 'll just be new htk runs , so that 's means in some sense we can kind of relax from this after after tuesday and and uh maybe next meeting we can start talking a little bit about where we want to go from here uh in terms of uh the research . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : um you know what things uh did you think of when you were uh doing this process that uh you just did n't really have time to adequately work on uh uh so phd c : mm - hmm . yeah . professor b : what ? grad a : oh , stephane always has these great ideas and oh , but uh we do n't have time . phd c : sure . professor b : yeah . grad a : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd c : i 'm not sure these are great ideas . professor b : but they 're ideas . yeah ? oh , that was good . phd c : yeah . grad a : yeah . professor b : and and uh also it 's still true that uh i think it 's true that that we we at least got fairly consistent i improved results by running uh the uh neural net transformation in parallel with the features rather than uh in sequence which was was your suggestion and that that that seems to have been borne out . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : the fact that none of these are are you know , enormous is is is not too surprising most improvements are n't enormous and uh phd c : yeah . professor b : some of them are but uh i mean you have something really really wrong and you fix it you can get big and really enormous improvements phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but uh um cuz our best improvements over the years that we 've gotten from finding bugs , but anyway ok well i i think i see where we are and everybody knows what they 're doing and is there is there anything else we should talk about or or are we done ? phd c : mm - hmm . i think it 's ok um . we so basically we will i think we 'll try to to focus on these three architectures and and perhaps i was thinking also a fourth one with just just a single klt because we did not really test that professor b : uh - huh . phd c : removing all these klt 's and putting one single klt at the end . professor b : yeah , i mean that would be pretty low maintenance to try it . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh if you can fit it in . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : oh i have yeah i do have one other piece of information which uh i should tell people outside of this group too uh i do n't know if we 're gon na need it uh but uh jeff up at the uh university of washington has uh gotten a hold of a uh uh some kind of server farm of uh of ten uh uh multiprocessor uh ibm machines rs six thousands phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and and uh so i think each one is four processors or something or i do n't know , eight hundred megahertz or something and there 's four processors in a box and there 's ten boxes and there 's some kind of ti so if you know he 's got a lot of processing power and um we 'd have to schedule it but if we have some big jobs and we wan na wan na wan na run them he 's he 's offering it . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so . it 's uh when he was here eh uh he he used i not only every machine here but every machine on campus as far as i could tell , so so in some ways he just got his payback , but uh again i i do n't know if we 'll end up with if we 're gon na be cpu limited on anything that we 're doing in this group phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but but if if we are that 's an offer . ok well uh you guys doing great stuff so that 's that that 's really neat and uh we 'll uh uh g do n't think we need to uh um oh well the other thing i guess that i will say is that uh the digits that we 're gon na record momentarily is starting to get are starting to get into a pretty good size collection and um in addition to the speechdat stuff we will have those to work with really pretty soon now so that 's that 's another source of data . um which is s under somewhat better control and that we can we can make measurements of the room the uh that you know if we feel there 's other measurements we do n't have that we 'd like to have we can make them and uh dave and i were just talking about that a little while ago so uh that 's another another possibility for this this kind of work . phd c : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on looking at feature streams </s> professor b : ok so uh today we 're looking at a number of uh things we 're trying and uh fortunately for listeners to this uh we lost some of it 's visual but um got tables in front of us . um what is what does combo mean ? phd c : so combo is um a system where we have these features that go through a network and then this same string of features but low - pass filtered with the low - pass filter used in the msg features . and so these low - pass filtered goes through m eh another mlp and then the linear output of these two mlp 's are combined just by adding the values and then there is this klt . um the output is used as uh features as well . professor b : um so let me try to restate this and see if i have it right . there is uh there is the features uh there 's the ogi features and then um those features um go through a contextual uh l l let 's take this bottom arr one pointed to by the bottom arrow . um those features go through a contextualized klt . then these features also uh get um low - pass filtered phd c : yeah . yeah so yeah i could perhaps draw this on the blackboard professor b : sure . yeah . yeah . phd c : yeah . phd d : the graph , yeah another one . professor b : yeah , that 's good . phd c : so we have these features from ogi that goes through the three paths . professor b : yeah . three , ok . phd c : the first is a klt using several frames of the features . professor b : yeah . yeah . phd c : the second path is uh mlp also using nine frames several frames of features professor b : yeah . uh - huh . phd c : the third path is this low - pass filter . professor b : uh - huh . phd c : uh , mlp professor b : aha ! aha ! phd c : adding the outputs just like in the second propose the the proposal from for the first evaluation . professor b : yeah ? yeah . yeah . phd c : and then the klt and then the two together again . professor b : no , the klt . and those two together . that 's it . phd d : two htk . professor b : ok so that 's that 's this bottom one . phd c : um . so this is yeah professor b : and so uh and then the the the one at the top and i presume these things that uh are in yellow are in yellow because overall they 're the best ? phd c : yeah that 's the reason , yeah . professor b : oh let 's focus on them then so what 's the block diagram for the one above it ? phd c : for the f the f first yellow line you mean ? professor b : yeah . phd c : yeah so it 's uh basically s the same except that we do n't have this uh low - pass filtering so we have only two streams . phd d : step . phd c : well . there 's there 's no low low - pass processing used as additional feature stream . professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . do you e um they mentioned made some uh when i was on the phone with sunil they they mentioned some weighting scheme that was used to evaluate all of these numbers . phd c : yeah . uh actually the way things seems to um well it 's uh forty percent for ti - digit , sixty for all the speechdat - cars , well all these languages . ehm the well match is forty , medium thirty five and high mismatch twenty - five . yeah . professor b : um and we do n't have the ti - digits part yet ? phd c : uh , no . but yeah . generally what you observe with ti - digits is that the result are very close whatever the the system . professor b : ok . and so have you put all these numbers together into a single number representing that ? phd c : yeah . professor b : i mean not phd c : uh not yet . professor b : ok so that should be pretty easy to do and that would be good phd c : no . mmm yeah , yeah . professor b : then we could compare the two and say what was better . phd c : mmm . yeah . professor b : um and how does this compare to the numbers oh so ogi two is just the top top row ? phd d : yeah . phd c : so yeah to actually ogi two is the the baseline with the ogi features but this is not exactly the result that they have because they 've they 're still made some changes in the features and well but uh actually our results are better than their results . um i do n't know by how much because they did not send us the new results professor b : uh ok so the one one place where it looks like we 're messing things up a bit is in the highly mismatched italian . phd c : yeah . yeah . yeah there is something funny happening here because yeah . professor b : yeah . phd c : but there are thirty - six and then sometimes we are we are we are around forty - two and professor b : now up uh so one of the ideas that you had mentioned last time was having a a second um silence detection . phd c : yeah . so there are some results here phd d : for the italian . phd c : uh so the third and the fifth line of the table phd d : for this one . professor b : so filt is what that is ? phd c : filt , yeah phd d : yeah . phd c : um yeah so it seems f for the the well match and mismatched condition it 's uh it brings something . uh but uh actually apparently there are there 's no room left for any silence detector at the server side because of the delay . uh well professor b : oh we ca n't do it . oh ok . phd d : for that for that we professor b : too bad . good idea , but ca n't do it . phd c : yeah . except i do n't know because they i think they are still working well . professor b : uh - huh . phd c : uh t two days ago they were still working on this trying to reduce the delay of the silence detector so but yeah if we had time perhaps we could try to find uh some kind of compromise between the delay that 's on the handset and on the server side . perhaps try to reduce the delay on the handset and but well hmm for the moment they have this large delay on the the feature computation and so we do n't professor b : ok . so alright so for now at least that 's not there you have some results with low - pass filter cepstrum does n't have a huge effect but it but it looks like it you know maybe could help in a couple places . uh little bit . phd c : yeah . professor b : um and um um yeah and uh let 's see what else did we have in there ? uh i guess it makes a l um at this point this is i i guess i should probably look at these others a little bit uh and you you yellowed these out uh but uh uh oh i see yeah that that one you ca n't use because of the delay . those look pretty good . um let 's see that one well even the just the the second row does n't look that bad right ? that 's just uh yeah ? and and that looks like an interesting one too . phd d : mmm yeah . phd c : actually the yeah the second line is uh pretty much like the first line in yellow except that we do n't have this klt on the first on the left part of the diagram . we just have the features as they are . professor b : mm - hmm . yeah . yeah so when we do this weighted measure we should compare the two cuz it might even come out better . and it 's it 's it 's a little slightly simpler . phd c : mm - hmm . yeah . professor b : so so there 's so i i would put that one also as a as a maybe . uh and it yeah and it 's actually does does significantly better on the uh uh highly mismatched italian , so s and little worse on the mis on the mm case , but uh well yeah it 's worse than a few things phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so uh let 's see how that c that c c see how that comes out on their their measure and are are we running this uh for ti - digits or uh phd c : yeah . professor b : now is ti di is is that part of the result that they get for the uh development th the results that they 're supposed to get at the end of end of the month , the ti - digits are there also ? phd c : yeah . yeah . it 's included , yeah . professor b : oh ok . ok . and see what else there is here . um oh i see the one i was looking down here at the the o the row below the lower yellowed one . uh that 's uh that 's with the reduced uh klt size reduced dimensionality . </s>
<s> what did phd c think about silence detection ? </s> phd c : um yeah so it seems f for the the well match and mismatched condition it 's uh it brings something . uh but uh actually apparently there are there 's no room left for any silence detector at the server side because of the delay . uh well professor b : oh we ca n't do it . oh ok . phd d : for that for that we professor b : too bad . good idea , but ca n't do it . phd c : yeah . except i do n't know because they i think they are still working well . professor b : uh - huh . phd c : uh t two days ago they were still working on this trying to reduce the delay of the silence detector so but yeah if we had time perhaps we could try to find uh some kind of compromise between the delay that 's on the handset and on the server side . perhaps try to reduce the delay on the handset and but well hmm for the moment they have this large delay on the the feature computation and so we do n't </s>
<s> what did the professor think about the silence detection problem ? </s> professor b : um and um um yeah and uh let 's see what else did we have in there ? uh i guess it makes a l um at this point this is i i guess i should probably look at these others a little bit uh and you you yellowed these out uh but uh uh oh i see yeah that that one you ca n't use because of the delay . those look pretty good . um let 's see that one well even the just the the second row does n't look that bad right ? that 's just uh yeah ? and and that looks like an interesting one too . phd d : mmm yeah . phd c : actually the yeah the second line is uh pretty much like the first line in yellow except that we do n't have this klt on the first on the left part of the diagram . we just have the features as they are . professor b : mm - hmm . yeah . yeah so when we do this weighted measure we should compare the two cuz it might even come out better . and it 's it 's it 's a little slightly simpler . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on fixing the system </s> phd c : yeah . we can yeah . sure . but we have to decide i mean we have to fix the system on this d on this data , to choose the best professor b : yeah . i right . phd c : and these professor b : but the question is when when do we fix the system , phd c : but we could professor b : do we fix the system uh tomorrow or do we fix the system on tuesday ? i yeah , ok except that we do have to write it up . phd c : i think we fixed on tuesday , yeah . yeah . mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : also , so phd c : yeah . yeah . uh yeah well . well basically it 's this with perhaps some kind of printing and some some other @ @ . professor b : right so maybe what we do is we we we uh as soon as we get the data from them we start the training and so forth phd c : yeah but mm - hmm . professor b : but we start the write - up right away because as you say there there 's only minor differences between these . phd c : i think you we could we could start soon , yeah . professor b : yeah . phd c : write up something . professor b : yeah , and and i i would you know , i would i 'd kind of like to see it phd c : um yeah . mm - hmm . professor b : maybe i can i can edit it a bit uh sure . the my what in this si i in this situation is my forte which is english . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh h yeah . have y have you seen alt d do they have a format for how they want the system descriptions or anything ? phd c : uh not really . um there is the format of the table which is quite impressive . professor b : yeah ? uh i see . yes , for those who are listening to this and not looking at it uh it 's not really that impressive , it 's just tiny . it 's all these little categories set a , set b , set c , multi - condition , clean . uh no mitigation . wow . do you know what no what no mitigation means here ? phd c : um it should be the the problem with the error channel error professor b : oh that 's probably the this is probably channel error stuff phd c : well , you professor b : huh ? oh this is i right , it says right above here channel channel error resilience , phd c : yeah . yeah . professor b : yeah . so recognition performance is just the top part , actually . uh and they have yes , split between seen databases and non - seen so basically between development and and evaluation . phd c : yeah . professor b : and so right , it 's presumed there 's all sorts of tuning that 's gone on on the see what they call seen databases and there wo n't be tuning for the uh unseen . multi - condition multi - condition . so they have looks like they have uh uh phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so they splitting up between the ti - digits and everything else , i see . so the everything else is the speechdat - car , that 's the multi multilingual phd c : yeah , so it 's not divided between languages you mean or professor b : well , it is . phd c : it just professor b : it is , but there 's also there 's these tables over here for the for the ti - digits and these tables over here for the car data which is which is i guess all the multilingual stuff phd c : oh yeah . professor b : and then uh there 's they also split up between multi - condition and clean only . phd c : yeah . for ti - digits . yeah , actually yeah . for the ti - digits they want to train on clean and on noisy professor b : yeah . phd c : and yeah . professor b : so we 're doing that also , i guess . phd c : uh yeah . but uh we actually do we have the features ? yeah . for the clean ti - digits but we did not test it yet . uh the clean training stuff . professor b : well anyway , sounds like there 'll be a lot to do just to work with our partners to fill out the tables over the next uh next few days phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : i guess they have to send it out let 's see the thirty - first is uh uh wednesday and i think the it has to be there by some hour uh european time on wednesday phd c : hmm - hmm . professor b : so i think basically phd d : we lost time uh wednesday maybe because that the difference in the time may be is a long different of the time . professor b : e excuse me ? phd d : maybe the thursday the twelfth of the night of the thurs - thirty - one is is not valid in europe . phd c : yeah . phd d : we do n't know is happening . professor b : yes , so i mean i think we have to actually get it done tuesday phd d : tuesday . professor b : right because i i think phd c : yeah , well . except if if it 's the thirty - one at midnight or i do n't know we can still do some work on wednesday morning . professor b : yeah well . w i is but is is it midni i thought it was actually something like five pm on phd c : yeah , well . yeah . phd d : yeah . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : was like i thought it was five pm or something , i did n't think it was midnight . i thought they said they wanted everything by phd d : yeah , five pm . professor b : well , so five pm their time is is if phd d : not five pm , three pm . professor b : three pm . phd d : three pm . professor b : alright , that 's six in the morning here . phd c : it 's d no . phd d : uh no three three a - three pm ? phd c : no , we are wondering about the the the hour that we have to eh i do n't know if it 's three pm it 's phd d : oh yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . three pm here is in europe midnight . phd c : yeah , it 's it 's midnight but professor b : yes , yes , but i did n't think it was midnight that it was due , i thought it was due at some hour during the day like five pm or something . phd d : oh ok . mm - hmm . mm - hmm , professor b : in which case phd d : maybe . professor b : so i i uh well we should look but my assumption is that we basically have to be done tuesday . um so then next thursday we can sort of have a little aftermath phd d : yeah . professor b : but then then we 'll actually have the new data which is the german and the danish phd c : yeah . professor b : but that really will be much less work because uh the system will be fixed phd c : yeah . professor b : so all we 'll do is take whatever they have and and uh and run it through the process . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh we wo n't be changing the training on anything phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so there 'll be no new training , there 'll just be new htk runs , so that 's means in some sense we can kind of relax from this after after tuesday and and uh maybe next meeting we can start talking a little bit about where we want to go from here uh in terms of uh the research . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : um you know what things uh did you think of when you were uh doing this process that uh you just did n't really have time to adequately work on uh uh so phd c : mm - hmm . yeah . professor b : what ? grad a : oh , stephane always has these great ideas and oh , but uh we do n't have time . phd c : sure . professor b : yeah . grad a : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd c : i 'm not sure these are great ideas . professor b : but they 're ideas . yeah ? oh , that was good . phd c : yeah . grad a : yeah . professor b : and and uh also it 's still true that uh i think it 's true that that we we at least got fairly consistent i improved results by running uh the uh neural net transformation in parallel with the features rather than uh in sequence which was was your suggestion and that that that seems to have been borne out . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : the fact that none of these are are you know , enormous is is is not too surprising most improvements are n't enormous and uh phd c : yeah . professor b : some of them are but uh i mean you have something really really wrong and you fix it you can get big and really enormous improvements phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but uh um cuz our best improvements over the years that we 've gotten from finding bugs , but anyway ok well i i think i see where we are and everybody knows what they 're doing and is there is there anything else we should talk about or or are we done ? phd c : mm - hmm . i think it 's ok um . we so basically we will i think we 'll try to to focus on these three architectures and and perhaps i was thinking also a fourth one with just just a single klt because we did not really test that professor b : uh - huh . phd c : removing all these klt 's and putting one single klt at the end . professor b : yeah , i mean that would be pretty low maintenance to try it . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh if you can fit it in . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : oh i have yeah i do have one other piece of information which uh i should tell people outside of this group too uh i do n't know if we 're gon na need it uh but uh jeff up at the uh university of washington has uh gotten a hold of a uh uh some kind of server farm of uh of ten uh uh multiprocessor uh ibm machines rs six thousands phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and and uh so i think each one is four processors or something or i do n't know , eight hundred megahertz or something and there 's four processors in a box and there 's ten boxes and there 's some kind of ti so if you know he 's got a lot of processing power and um we 'd have to schedule it but if we have some big jobs and we wan na wan na wan na run them he 's he 's offering it . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so . it 's uh when he was here eh uh he he used i not only every machine here but every machine on campus as far as i could tell , so so in some ways he just got his payback , but uh again i i do n't know if we 'll end up with if we 're gon na be cpu limited on anything that we 're doing in this group phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but but if if we are that 's an offer . ok well uh you guys doing great stuff so that 's that that 's really neat and uh we 'll uh uh g do n't think we need to uh um oh well the other thing i guess that i will say is that uh the digits that we 're gon na record momentarily is starting to get are starting to get into a pretty good size collection and um in addition to the speechdat stuff we will have those to work with really pretty soon now so that 's that 's another source of data . um which is s under somewhat better control and that we can we can make measurements of the room the uh that you know if we feel there 's other measurements we do n't have that we 'd like to have we can make them and uh dave and i were just talking about that a little while ago so uh that 's another another possibility for this this kind of work . phd c : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did the team think about a single klt ? </s> grad a : yeah . professor b : and and uh also it 's still true that uh i think it 's true that that we we at least got fairly consistent i improved results by running uh the uh neural net transformation in parallel with the features rather than uh in sequence which was was your suggestion and that that that seems to have been borne out . phd c : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : the fact that none of these are are you know , enormous is is is not too surprising most improvements are n't enormous and uh phd c : yeah . professor b : some of them are but uh i mean you have something really really wrong and you fix it you can get big and really enormous improvements phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but uh um cuz our best improvements over the years that we 've gotten from finding bugs , but anyway ok well i i think i see where we are and everybody knows what they 're doing and is there is there anything else we should talk about or or are we done ? phd c : mm - hmm . i think it 's ok um . we so basically we will i think we 'll try to to focus on these three architectures and and perhaps i was thinking also a fourth one with just just a single klt because we did not really test that professor b : uh - huh . phd c : removing all these klt 's and putting one single klt at the end . professor b : yeah , i mean that would be pretty low maintenance to try it . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh if you can fit it in . phd c : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what were the professor 's concluding comments ? </s> professor b : but uh um cuz our best improvements over the years that we 've gotten from finding bugs , but anyway ok well i i think i see where we are and everybody knows what they 're doing and is there is there anything else we should talk about or or are we done ? phd c : mm - hmm . i think it 's ok um . we so basically we will i think we 'll try to to focus on these three architectures and and perhaps i was thinking also a fourth one with just just a single klt because we did not really test that professor b : uh - huh . phd c : removing all these klt 's and putting one single klt at the end . professor b : yeah , i mean that would be pretty low maintenance to try it . phd c : yeah . professor b : uh if you can fit it in . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : oh i have yeah i do have one other piece of information which uh i should tell people outside of this group too uh i do n't know if we 're gon na need it uh but uh jeff up at the uh university of washington has uh gotten a hold of a uh uh some kind of server farm of uh of ten uh uh multiprocessor uh ibm machines rs six thousands phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : and and uh so i think each one is four processors or something or i do n't know , eight hundred megahertz or something and there 's four processors in a box and there 's ten boxes and there 's some kind of ti so if you know he 's got a lot of processing power and um we 'd have to schedule it but if we have some big jobs and we wan na wan na wan na run them he 's he 's offering it . phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : so . it 's uh when he was here eh uh he he used i not only every machine here but every machine on campus as far as i could tell , so so in some ways he just got his payback , but uh again i i do n't know if we 'll end up with if we 're gon na be cpu limited on anything that we 're doing in this group phd c : mm - hmm . professor b : but but if if we are that 's an offer . ok well uh you guys doing great stuff so that 's that that 's really neat and uh we 'll uh uh g do n't think we need to uh um oh well the other thing i guess that i will say is that uh the digits that we 're gon na record momentarily is starting to get are starting to get into a pretty good size collection and um in addition to the speechdat stuff we will have those to work with really pretty soon now so that 's that 's another source of data . um which is s under somewhat better control and that we can we can make measurements of the room the uh that you know if we feel there 's other measurements we do n't have that we 'd like to have we can make them and uh dave and i were just talking about that a little while ago so uh that 's another another possibility for this this kind of work . </s>
<s> summarize the meeting </s> grad a : ok , this is one channel . can you uh , say your name and talk into your mike one at a time ? phd c : this is eric on channel three , i believe . grad a : ok . uh , i do n't think it 's on there , jane . undergrad d : tasting one two three , tasting . postdoc e : ok , this is jane on channel five . grad a : uh , i still do n't see you jane . postdoc e : oh , darn , what am i doing wrong ? undergrad d : can you see me on channel four ? really ? grad a : yeah , i s undergrad d : my lucky day . postdoc e : uh , screen no , it is , oh , maybe it just warmed up ? oh , darn , can you ca n't see channel five yet ? grad a : uh , well , the mike is n't close enough to your mouth , so . postdoc e : oh , this would be k ok , is that better ? grad a : s uh , try speaking loudly , undergrad d : i like the high quality labelling . postdoc e : hello , grad a : ok , good . undergrad d : david , can we borrow your labelling machine to improve the quality of the labelling a little bit here ? postdoc e : hello . alright . grad a : thank you . undergrad d : how how many are there , one to five ? phd b : one five , yeah . undergrad d : yeah , please . postdoc e : would you like to join the meeting ? grad a : well , we do n't wan na renumber them , postdoc e : i bet grad a : cuz we 've already have like , forms filled out with the numbers on them . so , let 's keep the same numbers on them . phd b : yeah , ok , that 's a good idea . grad a : ok , dan , are you on ? phd b : i 'm on i 'm on two and i should be on . grad a : good . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : want to join the meeting , dave ? do we do do we have a spare , uh grad a : and i 'm getting lots of responses on different ones , so i assume the various and assorted p z ms are on . undergrad d : we ' r we 're we ' r this is this this is a meeting meeting . postdoc e : this is abou we 're we 're mainly being taped but we 're gon na talk about , uh , transcription for the m future meeting meetings . grad a : stuff . yeah , this is not something you need to attend . so . postdoc e : yeah . e ok . phd c : you 're always having one of those days , dave . postdoc e : y you 'd be welcome . grad a : besides , i do n't want anyone who has a weird accent . postdoc e : you 'd be welcome . grad a : right , dan ? undergrad d : so , i do n't understand if it 's neck mounted you do n't get very good performance . phd c : it 's not neck mounted . it 's supposed to be h head mounted . undergrad d : yeah . it it should be head mounted . right ? grad a : well , then put it on your head . phd b : i do n't know . phd c : right . grad a : what are you doing ? undergrad d : cuz when you do this , you can rouww - rouww . postdoc e : why did n't i you were saying that but i could hear you really well on the on the transcription on the , uh , tape . grad a : well , i m i would prefer that people wore it on their head phd b : i i do n't know . grad a : but they were complaining about it . because it 's not it does n't go over the ears . postdoc e : it 's badly designed . grad a : it 's very badly designed so it 's phd b : it 's very badly designed ? undergrad d : what do you mean it does n't go over the ears ? phd b : why ? it 's not s it 's not supposed to cover up your ears . grad a : yeah but , there 's nowhere to put the pad so it 's comfortable . phd b : i mean , it 's only badly postdoc e : so that 's what you 're d he 's got it on his temples so it cuts off his circulation . phd b : oh , that 's strange . phd c : yeah , that 's that 's what i have . grad a : and it feels so good that way . phd c : it feels so good when i stop . grad a : so i i again would like to do some digits . undergrad d : somebody wan na postdoc e : try it . undergrad d : somebody wan na close the door ? grad a : sure . postdoc e : we could do it with noise . grad a : so let me phd c : you 're always doing digits . grad a : well , you know , i 'm just that sort of digit - y g sorta guy . ok . so this is adam . postdoc e : uh , this is the same one i had before . grad a : i doubt it . phd b : it 's still the same words . grad a : i think we 're session four by the way . or m it might be five . undergrad d : psss ! oh , that 's good . grad a : i did n't bring my previous thing . phd b : we did n't postdoc e : now , just to be sure , the numbers on the back , this is the channel ? phd b : that 's the microphone number . postdoc e : that 's the microphone number . grad a : yeah , d leave the channel blank . postdoc e : uh - oh . ok , good . undergrad d : but number has to be ? so we have to look up the number . postdoc e : five grad a : right . undergrad d : ok , good . postdoc e : good . ok . well , this is jane , on mike number five . um . i just start ? do i need to say anything more ? grad a : uh , transcript number . phd b : transcript number phd c : ok , this is eric on microphone number three , undergrad d : this is beck on mike four . grad a : thanks . should i turn off the vu meter dan ? do you think that makes any difference ? phd b : oh , god . no , let me do it . grad a : why ? are you gon na do something other than hit `` quit `` ? phd b : no , but i 'm gon na look at the uh , logs as well . grad a : oh . should have done it before . postdoc e : uh , you said turn off the what ? grad a : the vu meter which tells you what the levels on the various mikes are and there was one hypothesis that perhaps that the act of recording the vu meter was one of the things that contributed to the errors . postdoc e : oh . oh , i see . undergrad d : yeah , but eric , uh , you did n't think that was a reasonable hypothesis , right ? postdoc e : i see . grad a : that was me , undergrad d : oh , i 'm sorry y grad a : i thought that was undergrad d : that was malarkey . grad a : well , the only reason that could be is if the driver has a bug . right ? because the machine just is n't very heavily loaded . undergrad d : no chance of that . grad a : no chance of that . just because it 's beta . look ok ? phd b : yeah , there there there was there was a there was a bug . there was a glitch last time we ran . undergrad d : are - are yo are you recording where the table mikes are by the way ? do you know which channels grad a : yeah , we usually do that . phd b : no , we do n't . grad a : yeah . phd b : but we we ought to st we ought to standardize . undergrad d : why not ? phd b : i think , uh , i s i spoke to somebody , morgan , { comment } about that . i think i think we should put mar well , no , w we can do that . undergrad d : why do n't you just do this ? grad a : i mean , that 's what we 've done before . phd b : i know what they they 're they 're four , three , two , one . in order now . undergrad d : four . phd b : three , two , and one . undergrad d : three . phd b : but i think i think we should put them in standard positions . i think we should make little marks on the table top . grad a : which means we need to move this thing , and sorta decide how we 're actually going to do things . phd b : so that we can put them postdoc e : oh , ok . phd b : i guess that 's the point . it 'll be a lot easier if we have a if we have them permanently in place or something like that . grad a : right . postdoc e : i do wish there were big booms coming down from the ceiling . phd b : you do ? postdoc e : yeah . phd c : would it make you feel more important ? postdoc e : yeah , yeah , yeah . phd c : i see . undergrad d : wait till the projector gets installed . postdoc e : you know . grad a : that 'll work . postdoc e : oh , that 'll be good . grad a : that 'll work . phd b : oh , gosh . undergrad d : cuz it 's gon na hang down , make noise . phd b : when 's it gon na be installed ? undergrad d : well , it depends on phd b : i see . undergrad d : is this b is this being recorded ? grad a : that 's right . undergrad d : uh , i think lila actually is almost getting r pretty close to even getting ready to put out the purchase order . phd b : ok . cool . undergrad d : i handed it off to her about a month ago . phd b : i see . grad a : ok , so , topic of this meeting is i wan na talk a little bit about transcription . um , i 've looked a little bit into commercial transcription services and jane has been working on doing transcription . uh , and so we wan wan na decide what we 're gon na do with that and then get an update on the electronics , and then , uh , maybe also talk a little bit about some infrastructure and tools , and so on . um , you know , eventually we 're probably gon na wan na distribute this thing and we should decide how we 're gon na how we 're gon na handle some of these factors . so . phd b : distribute what ? the data ? grad a : right . right . i mean , so we 're we 're collecting a corpus and i think it 's gon na be generally useful . i mean , it seems like it 's not a corpus which is uh , has been done before . and so i think people will be interested in having having it , and so we will undergrad d : u using , like , audio d v ds or something like that ? grad a : excuse me ? undergrad d : audio d v grad a : well , or something . yeah , audio d v c ds , you know . undergrad d : yeah . tapes . grad a : and and so how we do we distribute the transcripts , how do we distribute the audio files , how do we how do we just do all that infrastructure ? phd c : well , i think i mean , for that particular issue ther there are known sources where people go to to find these kind of things like the ldc for instance . postdoc e : yeah , grad a : right , but but so should we do it in the same format as ldc postdoc e : that 's right . grad a : and what does that mean to what we 've done already ? phd b : right . the it 's not so much the actu the logistics of distribution are secondary to preparing the data in a suitable form for distribution . phd c : right . grad a : right . so , uh , as it is , it 's sort of a ad - hoc combination of stuff dan set and stuff i set up , which we may wan na make a little more formal . so . phd b : and the other thing is that , um , university of washington may want to start recording meetings as well , grad a : right . phd b : in which case w w we 'll have to decide what we 've actually got so that we can give them a copy . grad a : that 's right . undergrad d : a field trip . grad a : yeah . i was actually thinking i would n't mind spending the summer up there . that would be kind of fun . phd b : oh , really ? grad a : yeah . visit my friends and spend some time phd b : different for you . yes . grad a : well , and then also i have a bunch of stuff for doing this digits . so i have a bunch of scripts with x waves , and some perl scripts , and other things that make it really easy to extract out and align where the digits are . and if u d uw 's going to do the same thing i think it 's worth while for them to do these digits tasks as well . undergrad d : mm - hmm . grad a : and what i 've done is pretty ad - hoc , um , so we might wan na change it over to something a little more standard . you know , stm files , or xml , or something . undergrad d : an - and there 's interest up there ? grad a : what 's that ? undergrad d : there 's interest up there ? grad a : well they they certainly wan na collect more data . and so they 're applying , i think i b is that right ? something like that . phd b : i do n't know . grad a : um , for some more money to do more data . so we were planning to do like thirty or forty hours worth of meetings . they wan na do an additional hundred or so hours . so , they want a very large data set . um , but of course we 're not gon na do that if we do n't get money . so . phd b : i see . grad a : and i would like that just to get a disjoint speaker set and a disjoint room . i mean , one of the things morgan and i were talking about is we 're gon na get to know this room really well , phd c : mm - hmm . grad a : the the acoustics of this room . phd b : all about that . undergrad d : including the fan . grad a : including the fan . undergrad d : did you notice the fan difference ? phd b : oh , now you 've touched the fan control , now all our data 's gon na be undergrad d : hear the difference ? grad a : oh , it 's enormous . phd b : yeah , it 's great . postdoc e : oh , that 's better . undergrad d : do you wan na leave it off or not ? postdoc e : that 's better . grad a : all the others have been on . phd b : that 's undergrad d : yeah , the you sure ? phd b : oh , yeah . grad a : y absolut phd b : absolutely . undergrad d : you you think that grad a : yeah . undergrad d : things after the f then this fan 's wired backwards by the way . uh , i think this is high speed here . postdoc e : yeah , it 's noticeable . undergrad d : well , not clear . phd b : well it 's well like `` low `` is mid mid - scale . undergrad d : maybe it maybe it is n't . phd b : so it could be that it 's not actually wired backwards undergrad d : that 's right . phd b : it 's just that ambiguous . undergrad d : i was wondering also , get ready . { comment } whether the lights made any noise . postdoc e : uh - huh . grad a : there 's definitely yep . phd b : oh , they do . phd c : yeah , a little bit . phd b : yeah . grad a : high pitch hum . wow . undergrad d : so , do our meetings in the dark with no air conditioning in the future . grad a : yeah , just get a variety . postdoc e : i think candles would be nice if they do n't make noise . grad a : they 're very good . phd b : oh , yeah . phd c : it would you know , it would real really mean that we should do short meetings when you turn off the { comment } turn off the air conditioning , grad a : carbon monoxide poisoning ? undergrad d : short meetings , that 's right . or yeah , sort of { comment } r r phd c : got to finish this meeting . undergrad d : tear t tear your clothing off to stay cool . phd c : that 's right . undergrad d : actually , the a th air the air conditioning 's still working , that 's just an auxiliary fan . phd c : right , i see . so , um , in addition to this issue about the uw stuff there was announced today , uh , via the ldc , um , a corpus from i believe santa barbara . postdoc e : yeah , i saw it . i 've been watching for that corpus . phd c : um , of general spoken english . postdoc e : yeah . yep . phd c : and i do n't know exactly how they recorded it but apparently there 's a lot of different styles of speech and what not . grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : and postdoc e : they had people come in to a certain degree and they and they have dat recorders . phd c : i see . so it is sort of far field stuff . right ? postdoc e : i i assume so , actually , i had n't thought about that . unless they added close field later on but , um , i 've listened to some of those data and i , um , i 've been i i was actually on the advisory board for when they set the project up . grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : oh , ok . phd b : what 's it sound like ? postdoc e : i 'm glad to see that it got released . grad a : yeah , i i wish postdoc e : so it it 's a very nice thing . grad a : i wish we had someone here working on adaptation because it would nice to be able to take that stuff and adapt it to a meeting setting . you know phd c : but it may be it may be useful in postdoc e : how do you mean do you mean mechanical adaptation or grad a : no , software , to adapt the speech recognition . phd c : well , what i was thinking is it may be useful in transcribing , if it 's far field stuff , grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : right ? in doing , um , some of our first automatic speech recognition models , it may be useful to have that kind of data postdoc e : great idea . phd c : because that 's very different than any kind of data that we have so far . grad a : that 's true . postdoc e : and and their recording conditions are really clean . i mean , i 've i 've heard i 've listened to the data . grad a : well that 's not good , right ? phd c : that 's that 's not great . postdoc e : it sounds well but what i mean is that , um undergrad d : but far field means great distance ? i mean grad a : just these . undergrad d : not head mounted ? phd b : yeah . undergrad d : and so that 's why they 're getting away with just two channels or something , or are they using multiple dats ? postdoc e : um , oh , good question and i ca n't ans answer it . grad a : well we can look into it . postdoc e : i do n't know . phd c : no , and their web their web page did n't answer it either . so i 'm , i uh , was thinking that we should contact them . so it 's that 's sort of a beside - the - point point . but . grad a : so we can get that just with , uh , media costs , undergrad d : still a point . phd c : right . grad a : is that right ? phd c : uh , in fact we get it for free cuz they 're distributing it through the ldc . grad a : great . so that would be yeah , that would be something to look into . so . phd c : so , i can i can actually arrange for it to arrive in short order if we 're postdoc e : the other thing too is from from a grad a : well , it 's silly to do unless we 're gon na have someone to work on it , so maybe we need to think about it a little bit . postdoc e : the other thing too is that their their jus their transcription format is really nice and simple in in the discourse domain . but they also mentioned that they have it time aligned . i mean , i s i i saw that write - up . phd c : yeah . maybe we should maybe we should get a copy of it just to see what they did phd b : yeah , absolutely . grad a : yeah . phd c : so so that we can we can compare . postdoc e : it 's very nice . grad a : ok , why do n't you go ahead and do that then eric ? phd b : absolutely . phd c : alright , i 'll do that . i ca n't remember the name of the corpus . it 's corps - s postdoc e : csae . phd c : s postdoc e : corpus of spoken american english . phd c : right , ok . postdoc e : yeah , sp i 've been i was really pleased to see that . i knew that they they had had some funding problems in completing it phd b : uh - huh . phd c : yeah . postdoc e : but , um , phd c : well they 're postdoc e : this is clever . phd c : apparently this was like phase one postdoc e : got it through the ldc . phd c : and the there 's still more that they 're gon na do apparently or something like that unless of course they have funding issues postdoc e : great . great . phd c : and then then it ma they may not do phase two but from all the web documentation it looked like , `` oh , this is phase one `` , whatever that means . postdoc e : super . super . great . yeah , that i mean , they 're really well respected in the linguistics d side too and the discourse area , and so this is a very good corpus . phd c : but , it uh it would also maybe help be helpful for liz , if she wanted to start working on some discourse issues , you know , looking at some of this data and then , grad a : right . phd c : you know so when she gets here maybe that might be a good thing for her . grad a : actually , that 's another thing i was thinking about is that maybe jane should talk to liz , to see if there are any transcription issues related to discourse that she needs to get marked . phd c : maybe we should have a big meeting meeting . phd b : sure , of course . undergrad d : that would be a meeting meeting meeting ? grad a : a meeting meeting meeting . phd c : yeah . grad a : well this is the meeting about the meeting meeting meeting . so . phd c : right . but maybe we should , uh find some day that liz uh , liz and andreas seem to be around more often . grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : so maybe we should find a day when they 're gon na be here and and morgan 's gon na be here , and we can meet , at least this subgroup . i mean , not necessarily have the u - dub people down . grad a : well , i was even thinking that maybe we need to at least ping the u - dub to see phd c : we need we need to talk to them some more . grad a : you know , say `` this is what we 're thinking about for our transcription `` , if nothing else . so , well w shall we move on and talk a little bit about transcription then ? phd b : mm - hmm . let 's . phd c : yeah . grad a : ok , so { comment } since that 's what we 're talking about . what we 're using right now is a tool , um , from this french group , called `` transcriber `` that seems to work very well . um , so it has a , uh , nice useful tcl - tk user interface and , uh , undergrad d : thi - this is the process of converting audio to text ? grad a : right . undergrad d : and this requires humans just like the the stp stuff . grad a : yes , yeah . right , right . so we 're we 're at this point only looking for word level . so all all so what you have to do is just identify a segment of speech in time , and then write down what was said within it , and identify the speaker . and so the things we that we know that i know i want are the text , the start and end , and the speaker . but other people are interested in for example stress marking . and so jane is doing primary stress , um , stress marks as well . um , and then things like repairs , and false starts , and , filled pauses , and all that other sort of stuff , we have to decide how much of that we wan na do . postdoc e : i did include a glo { comment } uh , a certain first pass . my my view on it was when you have a repair then , uh it seems i mean , we saw , there was this presentation in the one of the speech group meetings about how grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc e : and i think liz has done some stuff too on that , that it , uh that you get it bracketed in terms of like well , if it 's parenthetical , which i know that liz has worked on , then uh y y you 'll have different prosodic aspects . grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc e : and then also if it 's a r if it 's a repair where they 're like what i just did , then it 's nice to have sort of a sense of the continuity of the utterance , the start to be to the finish . and , uh , it 's a little bit deceptive if you include the repai the pre - repair part and sometimes or of it 's in the middle . anyway , so what i was doing was bracketing them to indicate that they were repairs which is n't uh , very time - consuming . grad a : mm - hmm . undergrad d : i is there already some sort of plan in place for how this gon na be staffed or done ? or is it real is that what we 're talking about here ? grad a : well , that 's part of the thing we 're talking about . so what we wanted to do was have jane do basically one meeting 's worth , you know , forty minutes to an hour , postdoc e : mm - hmm . grad a : and postdoc e : as a pilot study . undergrad d : yourself ? grad a : yeah . undergrad d : it this is this is like five times real time or ten times real time postdoc e : yeah , as a pilot study . grad a : ten times about , is and so one of the things was to get an estimate of how long it would take , and then also what tools we would use . and so the next decision which has to be made actually pretty soon is how are we gon na do it ? so . undergrad d : and so you make jane do the first one so then she can decide , oh , we do n't need all this stuff , just the words are fine . postdoc e : that 's right , that 's right . phd b : that 's right . postdoc e : i wan na hear about these uh , we have a g you were s continuing with the transcription conventions for s grad a : r right , so so one one option is to get linguistics grad students and undergrads to do it . and apparently that 's happened in the past . and i think that 's probably the right way to do it . um , it will require a post pass , i mean people will have to look at it more than once to make sure that it 's been done correctly , but i just ca n't imagine that we 're gon na get anything that much better from a commercial one . and the commercial ones i 'm sure will be much more expensive . undergrad d : ca n't we get joy to do it all ? grad a : yeah right . postdoc e : no , that 's grad a : we will just get joy and jane to do everything . undergrad d : is tha was n't that what she was doing before ? yeah , that 's right . grad a : but , you know , that 's what we 're talking about is getting some slaves who who need money undergrad d : right . grad a : and , uh , duh , again o postdoc e : i object to that characterization ! phd b : oh , really . grad a : i meant joy . and so again , i have to say `` are we recording `` postdoc e : oh , thank you . ok . grad a : and then say , uh , morgan has has consistently resisted telling me how much money we have . undergrad d : right . well , the answer is zero . there 's a reason why he 's resisted . grad a : well , if it 's zero then we ca n't do any transcription . i mean , cuz we 're we undergrad d : right . phd b : i have such a hard name . grad a : i mean , i i ca n't imagine us doing it ourselves . right ? undergrad d : well , we already we already we already have a plan in place for the first meeting . grad a : n right . undergrad d : right ? that 's postdoc e : well th there is als yeah , really . there is also the o other possibility which is if you can provide not money but instructional experience or some other perks , you can you could get people to to um , to do it in exchange . grad a : right . undergrad d : well , i b but seriously , i i mean , morgan 's obviously in a bind over this and thing to do is just the field of dreams theory , which is we we go ahead as though there will be money at the time that we need the money . grad a : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : and that 's that 's the best we can do . grad a : right . phd b : right . undergrad d : i b to not do anything until we get money is is ridiculous . grad a : right . undergrad d : we 're not gon na do any get anything done if we do that . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . grad a : so at any rate , jane was looking into the possibility of getting students , at is that right ? talking to people about that ? postdoc e : i 'm afraid i have n't made any progress in that front yet . i should 've sent email and i have n't yet . grad a : yeah , right . so , uh undergrad d : i d do so until you actually have a little experience with what this this french thing does we do n't even have postdoc e : and i do have grad a : she 's already done quite a bit . undergrad d : oh , we have . postdoc e : i have a bunch of hours , grad a : yeah . undergrad d : i 'm sorry . so that 's where you came up with the f the ten x number ? postdoc e : yeah . undergrad d : or is that really just a guess ? postdoc e : actually that 's the the one people usually use , ten x . phd c : how fast are you ? postdoc e : and i have n't really calculated how fast am i ? undergrad d : yeah i postdoc e : i have n't done a s see , i 've been at the same time doing kind of a boot strapping in deciding on the transcription conventions that that are you know , and and stuff like , you know , how much phd c : right . postdoc e : there 's some interesting human factors problems like , yeah , what span of of time is it useful to segment the thing into in order to uh , transcribe it the most quickly . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : cuz then , you know , you get like if you get a span of five words , that 's easy . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : but then you have to take the time to mark it . and then there 's the issue of it 's easier to hear it th right the first time if you 've marked it at a boundary instead of somewhere in the middle , phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc e : cuz then the word 's bisected or whatever and and so i mean , i 've been sort of playing with , uh , different ways of mar cuz i 'm thinking , you know , i mean , if you could get optimal instructions you could cut back on the number of hours it would take . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : d does uh this tool you 're using is strictly it does n't do any speech recognition does it ? postdoc e : no , it does n't but what a super tool . it 's a great environment . undergrad d : but but is there anyway to to wire a speech recognizer up to it and actually run it through postdoc e : that 's an interesting idea . grad a : we 've we 've thought about doing that but the recognition quality is gon na be horrendous . undergrad d : well , a couple things . first of all the time marking you 'd get you could get by a tool . phd b : that 's true . undergrad d : and so if the if if the issue really postdoc e : that 's interesting . undergrad d : uh , i 'm think about the close caption that you see running by on on live news casts . grad a : most of those are done by a person . undergrad d : you know , yo i know i know that . postdoc e : yeah , i undergrad d : no , i understand . and in a lot of them you see typos and things like that , grad a : mm - hmm . undergrad d : but it but it occurs to me that it may be a lot easier to correct things than it is to do things from scratch , no matter how wonderful the tool is . grad a : yeah . yeah , we undergrad d : but if if there was a way to merge the two phd c : well , i mean , but sometimes it 's easier to type out something instead of going through and figuring out which is the right grad a : i mean , we 've talked about it postdoc e : that 'd be fun . grad a : but phd c : i mean , it depends on the error rate , right ? undergrad d : well s but but again the timing is for fr should be for free . the timing should be phd c : but we do n't care about the timing of the words . undergrad d : well i thought you just that 's said that was a critical issue . grad a : we do n't care about the timing of the words , just of the utterances . postdoc e : no , uh the the boundary phd c : we cut it s s phd b : we do n't we do n't know , actually . postdoc e : boundary . phd b : we have n't decided which which time we care about , and that 's kind of one of the things that you 're saying , is like you have the option to put in more or less timing data and , uh , be in the absence of more specific instructions , we 're trying to figure out what the most convenient thing to do is . grad a : yeah , so so what what she 's done so far , is sort of more or less breath g not breath groups , { comment } sort of phrases , continuous phrases . phd b : yeah . grad a : and so , um , that 's nice because you you separate when you do an extract , you get a little silence on either end . so that seems to work really well . postdoc e : that 's ideal . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : although i was i you know , the alternative , which i was sort of experimenting with before i ran out of time , recently was , um that , you know , ev if it were like an arbitrary segment of time i t pre - marked cuz it does take time to put those markings in . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : it 's really the i the interface is wonderful because , you know , the time it takes is you listen to it , and then you press the return key . but then , you know , it 's like , uh , you press the tab key to stop the flow and and , uh , the return key to p to put in a marking of the boundary . but , you know , obviously there 's a lag between when you hear it and when you can press the return key phd b : yeah . postdoc e : so it 's slightly delayed , so then you you listen to it a second time and move it over to here . so that takes time . now if it could all be pre - marked at some , l you know , good undergrad d : ar but are are those d delays adjustable ? those delays adjustable ? see a lot of people who actually build stuff with human computer interfaces understand that delay , phd b : yeah . undergrad d : and and so when you by the time you click it it 'll be right on because it 'll go back in time to put the postdoc e : yeah . phd b : it could do that postdoc e : yeah , uh , not in this case . grad a : we could program that pretty easily , phd b : could n't it . postdoc e : it has other grad a : could n't we dan ? yeah , mis mister tcl ? phd b : yeah . postdoc e : oh , interesting point . phd b : i would have thought so , yeah . postdoc e : ah ! { comment } interesting point . ok , that would make a difference . grad a : but , um postdoc e : i mean , it 's not bad grad a : but , if we tried to do automatic speaker id . postdoc e : but it does take twice . grad a : i mean , cuz primarily the markings are at speaker change . phd b : yeah , yeah , but grad a : but that would be phd b : but we 've got we 've got the most channel data . we 'd have to do it from your signal . right . i mean , we 've we 've got we 've got a lot of data . postdoc e : oh , good point ! ah ! grad a : yeah , i guess the question is how much time will it really save us versus the time to write all the tools to do it . postdoc e : we 've got volume . phd b : right . but the chances are if we if we 're talking about collecting ten or a hundred hours , which is going to take a hundred or a thousand hours to transcribe undergrad d : if grad a : but undergrad d : if we can go from ten x to five x we 're doing a big grad a : we 're gon na need we 're gon na need ten to a hundred hours to train the tools , and validate the tools the do the d to to do all this anyway . phd c : right . so maybe phd b : if we 're just doing silence detection postdoc e : but but it op grad a : i knew you were gon na do that . just saw it coming . postdoc e : i 'm sorry . i wish you had told me wish you 'd told me . undergrad d : put put it on your sweater . postdoc e : at what part ? ok , i 'm alright . phd b : um , i it seems like well , uh , i do n't know . yeah . i mean , it it 's it 's maybe like a week 's work to get to do something like this . so forty or fifty hours . phd c : right . postdoc e : could you get it so that with so it would it would detect volume on a channel and insert a marker ? and the the format 's really transparent . phd b : sure . phd c : yeah . postdoc e : it 's just a matter of a very c clear it 's xml , is n't it ? grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc e : it 's very i mean , i looked at the the file format and it 's just it has a t a time a time indication and then something or other , and then an end time or something or other . phd c : so maybe maybe we could try the following experiment . take the data that you 've already transcribed postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd c : and undergrad d : is this already in the past or already in the future ? phd c : already in the past . undergrad d : you 've already you 've already done some ? grad a : she 's she 's done about half a meeting . phd c : she she 's done one she 's one postdoc e : yes i have . undergrad d : oh - oh , i see . phd c : right . grad a : right ? phd c : right . undergrad d : good . grad a : about half ? phd c : i 'm go postdoc e : s i 'm not sure if it 's that 's much but anyway , enough to work with . phd c : right . phd b : several minutes . phd c : um , and and throw out the words , but keep the time markings . and then go through i mean , and go through and and try and re - transcribe it , given that we had perfect boundary detection . postdoc e : ok . good idea . phd c : and see if it see if it see if it feels easier to you . undergrad d : and forgetting all the words because you 've been thr postdoc e : yeah , that 's what i was thinking . i 'd i 'd be cheating a little bit g with familiarity effect . phd c : yeah , i mean uh , that 's part of the problem is , is that what we really need is somebody else to come along . phd b : well , no , you should do it you should do it do it again from scratch and then do it again at the boundaries . so you do the whole thing three times and then we get phd c : yeah . postdoc e : no . now , there 's a plan . undergrad d : and then then w since we need some statistics do it three more . and so you 'll get you 'll get down to one point two x by the time you get done . postdoc e : oh , yeah . i 'll do that tomorrow . i should have it finished by the end of the day . undergrad d : no , but the thing is the fact that she 's she 's did it before just might give a lower bound . that 's all . phd b : yeah . phd c : right . undergrad d : uh , which is fine . postdoc e : exactly . undergrad d : it 's and if the lower bound is nine x then w it 's a waste of time . postdoc e : yeah . phd c : right . postdoc e : well , uh but there 's an extra problem which is that i did n't really keep accurate uh , it was n't a pure task the first time , phd b : yeah . postdoc e : so uh , it 's gon na be an upper bound in in that case . and it 's not really strictly comparable . so i think though it 's a good proposal to be used on a new a new batch of text that i have n't yet done yet in the same meeting . could use it on the next segment of the text . phd b : the point we where do we get the the the oracle boundaries from ? phd c : right . phd b : or the boundaries . grad a : yeah , one person would have to assign the boundaries and the and the other person would have to postdoc e : well , but could n't i do it for the next phd b : we we we could get fake grad a : i mean that 's easy enough . postdoc e : oh , i see what you mean . grad a : i could do that . postdoc e : well , but the oracle boundaries would come from volume on a partic specific channel would n't they ? grad a : no , no . phd b : that would be the automatic boundaries . phd c : no , no , no , no . you wan na know given given a perfect human segmentation , i mean , you wan na know how well postdoc e : yeah . phd c : i mean , the the question is , is it worth giving you the segmentation ? postdoc e : oh , i see what you mean . grad a : i mean , that that 's easy enough . phd c : right . postdoc e : yeah . grad a : i could generate the segmentation and and you could do the words , and time yourself on it . so . undergrad d : a little double - blind - ear kind of thing . postdoc e : i see . ok . grad a : so it that might be worth doing . postdoc e : that 's good . i like that . grad a : that would at least tell us whether it 's worth spending a week or two trying to get a tool , that will compute the segmentations . phd c : right . undergrad d : and the thing to keep in mind too about this tool , guys is that sure , you can do the computation for what we 're gon na do in the future but if if uw 's talking about doing two , or three , or five times as much stuff and they can use the same tool , then obviously there 's a real multiplier there . grad a : right . postdoc e : and the other thing too is with with speaker identification , if if that could handle speaker identification that 's a big deal . phd b : well it w phd c : right . undergrad d : well , use it . yeah , that 's why we s bought the expensive microphones . postdoc e : ok . yeah , i mean , that 's a nice feature . phd b : yeah , yeah . postdoc e : that 's a major that 's like , one of the two things that phd c : i mean , there 's gon na there 's gon na be in the meeting , like the reading group meeting that we had the other day , that 's it 's gon na be a bit of a problem because , like , i was n't wearing a microphone f and there were other people that were n't wearing microphones . grad a : that undergrad d : but you did n't say anything worth while anyway , right ? grad a : that 'll s phd b : right . phd c : that 's pretty much true postdoc e : yeah . grad a : it might save ninety percent of the work though . phd c : but but , yes . phd b : so i i need to we need to look at what what the final output is but it seems like we it does n't it seems like it 's not really not that hard to have an automatic tool to generate the phrase marks , and the speaker , and speaker identity without putting in the words . grad a : yeah . i 've already become pretty familiar with the format , postdoc e : that 'd be so great . grad a : so it would be easy . phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc e : yeah . yeah . grad a : if you 'd tell me where it is , huh ? postdoc e : we did n't finish the the part of work already completed on this , did we ? i mean , you you talked a little bit about the transcription conventions , grad a : mm - hmm . postdoc e : and , i guess you 've mentioned in your progress report , or status report , that you had written a script to convert it into so , i when i i the it 's quickest for me in terms of the transcription part to say something like , you know , if if adam spoke to , um to just say , `` a colon `` , like who could be , you know , i mean at the beginning of the line . and e colon instead of entering the interface for speaker identification and clicking on the thing , uh , indicating the speaker id . so , and then he has a script that will convert it into the the thing that , uh , would indicate speaker id . grad a : it 's pretty cute . postdoc e : if that 's clear . grad a : but at any rate . so , um , postdoc e : it 's perl script . grad a : right . so so i think the guess at ten x seems to be pretty standard . everyone more or less everyone you talk to says about ten times for hard technical transcription . postdoc e : mm - hmm . undergrad d : using wh using stone age postdoc e : yeah . undergrad d : using stone age tools . postdoc e : that 's right . grad a : using using stone age tools . i mean , i looked at cyber transcriber postdoc e : yeah , well that 's true , but grad a : which is a service that you send an audio file , they do a first - pass speech recognition . and then they they do a clean up . but it 's gon na be horrible . they 're never gon na be able to do a meeting like this . undergrad d : right . postdoc e : what i just approximately , what did you find out in terms of price or or whatever ? grad a : well , for cyber transcriber they do n't quote a price . they want you to call and and talk . so for other services , um , they were about thirty dollars an hour . postdoc e : of of tape ? grad a : thirty so , yeah . postdoc e : or of action ? grad a : for thirty dollars an hour for of their work . postdoc e : ok . ok . oh , of their grad a : so so if it 's ten times it 's three hundred dollars an hour . phd c : so that 's three that 's three hours . undergrad d : d did you talk to anybody that does closed captioning for for uh , tv ? phd c : right . undergrad d : cuz they a usually at the end of the show they 'll tell what the name of the company is , the captioning company that 's doing it . grad a : mm - hmm . yeah , so so my my search was pretty cursory . postdoc e : interesting . grad a : it was just a net search . and , uh , so it was only people who have web pages and are doing stuff through that . undergrad d : well , you know , the the thing the thing about this is thinking kind of , maybe a little more globally than i should here but { comment } that really this could be a big contribution we could make . uh , i mean , we 've been through the stp thing , we know what it what it 's like to to manage the manage the process , and admittedly they might have been looking for more detail than what we 're looking for here but it was a it was a big hassle , right ? phd b : yeah . undergrad d : i mean , uh , you know , they they constantly could 've reminding people and going over it . and clearly some new stuff needs to be done here . and it 's it 's only our time , where `` our `` of course includes dan , dan and you guys . it does n't include me at all . uh . j just seems like phd b : yeah , i mean i do n't know if we 'd be able to do any thing f to help stp type problems . but certainly for this problem we can do a lot better than undergrad d : bec why ? because they wanted a lot more detail ? grad a : right . phd b : no . because they had because they only had two speakers , right ? i mean , the the segmentation problem is grad a : trivial . undergrad d : only had two . grad a : they had two speakers over the telephone . undergrad d : oh , i see . so what took them so long ? grad a : um , mostly because they were doing much lower level time . phd b : yeah . grad a : so they were doing phone and syllable transcription , as well as , uh , word transcription . undergrad d : right . right . phd c : right . postdoc e : mm - hmm . grad a : and so we 're w we decided early on that we were not gon na do that . undergrad d : i see . but there 's still the same issue of managing the process , of of reviewing and keeping the files straight , and all this stuff , that which is clearly a hassle . phd b : yeah . grad a : right . and so so what i 'm saying is that if we hire an external service i think we can expect three hundred dollars an hour . phd b : yeah . grad a : i think that 's the ball park . there were several different companies that and the the range was very tight for technical documents . twenty - eight to thirty - two dollars an hour . phd c : and who who knows if they 're gon na be able to m manage multal multiple channel data ? phd b : yeah , they wo n't . grad a : they wo n't . phd b : they w they 'll refuse to do it . grad a : we 'll have to mix them . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . phd c : right . phd b : no , but i mean , they they they wo n't they wo n't they will refuse to transcribe this kind of material . postdoc e : and then there 's the problem also that phd b : that 's not what they 're d quoting for , right ? grad a : yes , it is . undergrad d : well , they might they might quote it phd b : for quoting meetings ? grad a : sev - several of them say that they 'll do meetings , and conferences , and s and so on . none of them specifically said that they would do speaker id , or speaker change mark . phd b : wow . yeah . grad a : they all just said transcription . undergrad d : th - th the th there may be just multiplier for five people costs twice as much and for ten people co { comment } something like that . phd b : yeah , yeah , yeah . grad a : well , the the way it worked is it it was scaled . so what they had is , if it 's an easy task it costs twenty - four dollars an hour and it will take maybe five or six times real time . and what they said is for the hardest tasks , bad acoustics , meeting settings , it 's thirty - two dollars an hour and it takes about ten times real time . so i think that we can count on that being about what they would do . phd b : i see . yeah . grad a : it would probably be a little more phd b : right . postdoc e : yeah . grad a : because we 're gon na want them to do speaker marking . undergrad d : a lot of companies i 've worked for y the , uh the person leading the meeting , the executive or whatever , would sort of go around the room and and mentally calculate h how many dollars per hour this meeting was costing , right ? in university atmosphere you get a little different thing . but you know , it 's a lot like , `` he 's worth fifty an hour , he 's worth `` and so he so here we 're thinking , `` well let 's see , if the meeting goes another hour it 's going to be another thousand dollars . `` you know ? it 's grad a : yep , we have to have a short meeting . undergrad d : so ch so every everybody ta talk really fast . postdoc e : that 's very interesting . grad a : stop talking ! phd b : yeah . undergrad d : let 's get it over with . postdoc e : talk slowly but with few words . grad a : and clearly . phd b : that 's right . undergrad d : and only talk when you 're pointed to . postdoc e : there you go . grad a : content words only . postdoc e : we could have some telegraphic meetings . that might be interesting . phd b : yeah , it 'd be cheap . cheap to transcribe . grad a : so . but at any rate , so we we have a ballpark on how much it would cost if we send it out . undergrad d : and we 're talking about do doing how many hours worth of meetings ? grad a : thirty or forty . undergrad d : so thirty or forty thousand dollars . phd b : well , for ten thousand dollars . postdoc e : yeah . phd c : so , meanwhile undergrad d : oh . what well , it was thirty times phd b : three hundred . grad a : three hundred dollars an hour . undergrad d : oh , i 'm sorry , three hundred . grad a : right . undergrad d : right , i w got an extra factor of three there . phd c : so it 's thirty dollars an hour , essentially , right ? undergrad d : yeah . phd c : but we can pay a graduate student seven dollars an hour . and the question is what 's the difference phd b : how how much lower are they ? phd c : or ei eight dollars . what do you know what the going rate is ? it 's it 's on the order of eight to ten . postdoc e : i think uh that would give us a a good good estimate . phd c : i think . but i 'm not sure . postdoc e : i 'd i 'd say yeah , i was gon na say eight you 'd say ten ? phd c : let 's say ten . phd b : yeah , give them a break . phd c : cuz it 's easier . undergrad d : the - these are not for engineering graduate students , right ? grad a : right , these are linguistics grad students . six . phd c : yeah , i i i do n't i do n't know what the i do n't know what the standard undergrad d : that 's right . phd c : but there is a standard pay scale grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : i just do n't know what it is . postdoc e : yeah , that 's right . that 's right . phd c : um , so that means that even if it takes them thirty times real time it 's cheaper to to do graduate students . postdoc e : and there 's another aspect too . grad a : i mean , that 's why i said originally , that i could n't imagine sending it out 's gon na be cheaper . phd b : no , it is n't . so . postdoc e : the other thing too is that , uh , if they were linguistics they 'd be you know , in terms of like the post editing , i uh tu uh content wise they might be easier to handle cuz they might get it more right the first time . grad a : and also we would have control of i mean , we could give them feedback . whereas if we do a service it 's gon na be limited amount . phd b : yep , yep . grad a : i mean , we ca n't tell them , you know , `` for this meeting we really wan na mark stress postdoc e : good point . grad a : and for this meeting we want `` postdoc e : good point . grad a : and and they 're not gon na provide they 're not gon na provide stress , they 're not gon na re provide repairs , they 're not gon na provide they they may or may not provide speaker id . so that we would have to do our own tools to do that . so postdoc e : mm - hmm . grad a : i just phd b : yeah . undergrad d : just hypoth hypothetically assuming that that we go ahead and ended up using graduate students . i who who 's the person in charge ? who 's gon na be the steve here ? grad a : i hope it 's jane . is that alright ? postdoc e : oh , interesting . um , now would this involve some manner of uh , monetary compensation or would i be the voluntary , uh , coordinator of multiple transcribers for checking ? grad a : um , i would imagine there would be some monetary involved but we 'd have to talk to morgan about it . phd b : yeah , out of out of adam 's pocket . phd c : yeah . undergrad d : you know , it just means you have to stop working for dave . see ? that 's why dave should have been here . postdoc e : i do n't wan na stop working for dave . undergrad d : to pr protect his people . grad a : well , i would like you to do it because you have a lot more experience than i do , postdoc e : oh , cool . yeah . grad a : but if if that 's not feasible , i will do it with you as an advisor . postdoc e : uh - huh . undergrad d : w we 'd like you to do it and we 'd like to pay you . postdoc e : we 'll see . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : not being morgan though , it 's phd c : right . postdoc e : oh , i see . phd b : we 'd like to . unfortunately postdoc e : well undergrad d : yeah . postdoc e : yeah . grad a : yeah , six dollars an hour . postdoc e : yeah , i see . phd c : that 's a undergrad d : and and then postdoc e : ok . boy , if i wanted to increase my income i could start doing the transcribing again . phd b : yeah , that 's right . yeah . undergrad d : an an an and be and be sure and say , would you like fries with that when you 're thinking about your pay scale . postdoc e : i see . good . yeah , no , that i i would be interested in that in becoming involved in the project in some aspect like that grad a : ok . more . postdoc e : more . yeah . uh - huh . yeah . grad a : um , any more on transcript we wan na talk about ? phd b : what s so what are you so you 've done some portion of the first meeting . and what 's your plan ? postdoc e : yes . mm - hmm . phd b : to carry on doing it ? postdoc e : what well , you know what i thought was right now we have p so i gave him the proposal for the transcription conventions . he made his , uh , suggestion of improvement . the the it 's a good suggestion . so as far as i 'm concerned those transcription conventions are fixed right now . and so my next plan would be phd b : what what do they what do they cover ? postdoc e : they 're very minimal . so , it would be good to just to summarize that . so , um , one of them is the idea of how to indicate speaker change , phd b : yeah . postdoc e : and this is a way which meshes well with with , uh , making it so that , uh , you know , on the at the phd b : yeah . postdoc e : boy , it 's such a nice interface . when you when you get the , um you you get the speech signal you also get down beneath it , an indication of , uh , if you have two speakers overlapping in a s in a single segment , you see them one displayed one above each other . and then at the same time the top s part of the screen is the actual verbatim thing . you can clip click on individual utterances and it 'll take you immediately to that part of the speech signal , and play it for you . and you can , eh you can work pretty well between those two these two things . undergrad d : is there a limit to the number of speakers ? grad a : um , the user interface only allows two . and so if if you 're using their interface to specify overlapping speakers you can only do two . but my script can handle any . and their save format can handle any . and so , um , using this the convention that jane and i have discussed , you can have as many overlapping speakers as you want . undergrad d : do y is this a , uh , university project ? phd b : yeah . undergrad d : th - this is the french software , right ? grad a : yeah , french . phd b : yeah , yeah , grad a : yeah . and they 're they 've been quite responsive . phd b : their academic . grad a : i 've been exchanging emails on various issues . phd b : oh , really ? undergrad d : uh , did you ask them to change the interface for more speakers ? grad a : yes , and they said that 's on in in the works for the next version . undergrad d : good . phd c : oh , so multi multichannels . undergrad d : good . grad a : multichannels was also well , they said they wanted to do it but that the code is really very organized around single channels . so i think that 's n unlikely to ha happen . phd c : i see . ok . undergrad d : do - do you know what they 're using it for ? why 'd they develop it ? grad a : for this exact task ? phd c : for transcription . undergrad d : are they linguists ? phd c : it 's undergrad d : but i mean , are they are they linguists or are they speech recognition people ? grad a : i think they 're linguists . phd b : linguists . yeah . phd c : they 're they have some connection to the ldc cuz the ldc has been advising them on this process , the linguistic data consortium . um , undergrad d : mm - hmm . phd c : so but a apart from that . grad a : it 's also all the source is available . phd c : yeah . right . grad a : if you if you speak tcltk . undergrad d : great . mm - hmm . grad a : and they have they 've actually asked if we are willing to do any development and i said , well , maybe . phd c : right . undergrad d : good . grad a : so if we want if we did if we did something like programmed in a delay , which actually i think is a great idea , um , i 'm sure they would want that incorporated back in . postdoc e : mm - hmm . yeah , i do too . phd b : mm - hmm . undergrad d : their pre pre - lay . phd b : pre - lay . postdoc e : pre - lay . well , and they 've thought about things . you know , i mean , they they do have so you have when you when you play it back , um , it 's it is useful to have , uh , a a break mark to se segment it . but it would n't be strictly necessary cuz you can use the uh , the tabbed key to toggle the sound on and off . i mean , it 'll stop the s speech you know if you if you press a tab . and , um . and so , uh , that 's a nice feature . and then also once you 've put a break in then you have the option of cycling through the unit . you could do it like multiply until you get { comment } crazy and decide to stop cycling through that unit . undergrad d : loop it ? yo - you n you know , there 's al also the the user interface that 's missing . postdoc e : or or or undergrad d : it 's missing from all of our offices , and that is some sort of analog input for something like this . it 's what audio people actually use of course . it 's something that wh when you move your hand further , the sound goes faster past it , like fast forward . you know , like a joy stick or a uh , you could wire a mouse or trackball to do something like that . postdoc e : why , that 's that 's not something i wanted to have happen . undergrad d : no , but i 'm saying if this is what professionals who actually do this kind of thing for for for m for video or for audio where you you need to do this , postdoc e : i see . uh - huh . undergrad d : and so you get very good at sort of jostling back and forth , rather than hitting tab , and backspace , and carriage return , and enter , and things like that . phd b : mmm . mmm . postdoc e : uh - huh . grad a : yeah , we talked about things like foot pedals and other analog phd c : yeah . undergrad d : mm - hmm . grad a : so i mean , tho those are things we could do but i i just do n't know how much it 's worth doing . i mean we 're just gon na have undergrad d : ye - yeah . phd c : yeah . undergrad d : right . postdoc e : yeah , i i agree . they they have several options . so , uh , you know , i mentioned the looping option . another option is it 'll pause when it reaches the end of the boundary . and then to get to the next boundary you just press tab and it goes on to the next unit . undergrad d : cool . postdoc e : i mean , it 's very nicely thought out . they thought about and also it 'll go around the c the , uh , i wan na say cursor but i 'm not sure if that 's the right thing . grad a : point , whatever . postdoc e : anyway , you can so they thought about different ways of having windows that you c uh work within , phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc e : and but so in terms of the con the conventions , then , uh , basically , uh , it 's strictly orthographic which means with some w provisions for , uh , w uh , colloquial forms . so if a person said , `` cuz `` instead of `` because `` then i put a an apostrophe at the beginning of the word and then in in double ang angle brackets what the full lexical item would be . phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc e : and this could be something that was handled by a table or something but i think to have a convention marking it as a non - standard or wha i do n't mean standard but a a a non uh , ortho orthographic , uh , whatever . phd b : mm - hmm . grad a : non - canonical . phd c : mm - hmm . postdoc e : `` gon na `` or `` wan na `` , you know , the same thing . and and there would be limits to how much refinement you want in indicating something as non - standard pres pronunciation . phd c : how are you handling backchannels ? postdoc e : backchannels ? grad a : comments . postdoc e : um , you know oh , yes , there was some in my view , when i when you 've got it densely overlapping , um , i did n't worry about i did n't worry about s specific start times . phd c : what do you mean by du postdoc e : i sort of thought that this is not gon na be { comment } easily processed anyway and maybe i should n't spend too much time getting exactly when the person said `` no `` , or , you know , uh , i `` immediate `` . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : and instead just sort of rendered `` within this time slot , there were two people speaking during part of it phd b : yeah . postdoc e : and if you want more detail , figure it out for yourself `` , phd b : mm - hmm . grad a : well , i think what w what eric was talking about was channels other than the direct speech , phd c : i see . postdoc e : was sort of the way i felt @ @ grad a : right ? phd c : well , yeah , what i mean is wh i mean , when somebody says `` uh - huh `` in the middle of , uh , a @ @ postdoc e : uh - huh . that happened very seldom . phd c : oh , cuz i was i was listening to dan was agreeing a lot to things that you were saying as you were talking . undergrad d : uh - huh . uh - huh . postdoc e : oh , well , thank you dan . appreciate it . well , if it if there was a word like `` right `` , you know , then i wou i would indicate that it happened within the same tem time frame grad a : yeah , there 's an overlapping mark . phd c : and phd b : yeah . postdoc e : but would n't say exactly when it happened . undergrad d : i 'll be right back . phd b : i transcribed a minute of this stuff phd c : i see . phd b : and there was a lot of overlapping . it was postdoc e : a lot of overlapping , yeah . grad a : well there there 's a lot of overlapping at the beginning and end . phd b : yeah . yeah . grad a : huge amounts . phd b : it was at the beginning . grad a : um , when when no one i when we 're not actually in the meeting , and we 're all sort of separated , and and doing things . but even during the meeting there 's a lot of overlap but it it 's marked pretty clearly . um , some of the backchannel stuff jane had some comments and but i think a lot of them were because you were at the meeting . and so i think that that often often you ca n't tell . postdoc e : yeah , well that 's true . that 's another issue . grad a : i mean , jane had had comments like uh , to who who the person was speaking to . phd c : yeah . postdoc e : yeah . phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc e : only when it was otherwise gon na be puzzling grad a : yeah . postdoc e : because he was in the other room talking . grad a : yeah , but someone who , uh , was just the transcriber would n't have known that . postdoc e : yeah . grad a : or when dan said , `` i wa i was n't talking to you `` . phd c : right . postdoc e : that 's true . i know . undergrad d : so you take a bathroom break in the middle and and keep your head mount grad a : you have to turn off your mike . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : oh , you do ? phd b : you do n't have to . postdoc e : well he was so so he was checking the meter levels and and we were handling things while he was labeling the the whatever it was , the pda ? grad a : mm - hmm . phd b : uh - huh . postdoc e : and and so he was in sort of you were sort of talking you know , so i was saying , like `` and i could label this one left . right ? `` and he and he said , `` i do n't see anything `` . and he said he said , `` i was n't talking to you `` . or it was n't it did n't sound quite that rude . grad a : but postdoc e : but really , no , uh w you know in the context if you know he ca n't hear what he 's saying grad a : but when you w when you listen to it undergrad d : he he it was a lot funnier if you were there though . postdoc e : uh , yeah , grad a : well what what it what happens is if you 're a transcriber listening to it it sounds like dan is just being a total totally impolite . postdoc e : i know . well , you 'll see . you can listen to it . oh , i thought it was you who was . no , well , but you were you were asking off the wall questions . grad a : um but but if you knew that that i was n't actually in the room , and that dan was n't talking to me , it it became ok . so . phd b : i see . postdoc e : and that 's w that 's where i added comments . the rest of the time i did n't bother with who was talking to who but but this was unusual circum circumstance . undergrad d : so this is this is gon na go on the meeting meeting transcriber bloopers tape , right ? grad a : yes . right . postdoc e : well and part of it was funny , uh reason was because it was a mixed signal so you could n't get any clues from volume that , you know , he was really far away from this conversation . grad a : stereo . yeah . postdoc e : you could n't do that symmetrically in any case . grad a : oh . i should rewrite the mix tool to put half the people in one channel and half in the other . i have a auto - gain - mixer tool that mixes all the head mounted microphones into one signal postdoc e : that 's a good idea . undergrad d : mm - hmm . grad a : and that seems to work really well for the uh transcribers . undergrad d : great . postdoc e : but i thought it would be you know , i i did n't wan na add more contextual comments than were needed but that , it seemed to me , clarified that the con what was going on . and , uh ok , phd c : so , s postdoc e : so normalization phd c : i was just gon na ask , uh , so i just wanted to c sort of finish off the question i had about backchannels , if that 's ok , postdoc e : yeah . ok . phd c : which which was , so say somebody 's talking for a while postdoc e : yeah . phd c : and somebody goes `` mm - hmm `` in the middle of it , and and and what not , does the conversation come out from the or the person who 's speaking for the long time as one segment and then there 's this little tiny segment of this other speaker or does it does the fact that there 's a backchannel split the the the it in two . postdoc e : ok , my my focus was to try and maintain conten con content continuity and , uh , to keep it within what he was saying . like i would n't say breath groups but prosodic or intonational groups as much as possible . so if someone said `` mm - hmm `` in the middle of a of someone 's , uh , uh , intonational contour , i i indicated it as , like what you just did . then i indicated it as a segment which contained @ @ { comment } this utterance plus an overlap . phd b : but that 's but there 's only one there 's only one time boundary for both speakers , right ? postdoc e : yeah , that 's right . and you know , it could be made more precise than that phd c : i see , postdoc e : but i just thought phd c : i see , ok . postdoc e : yeah . phd c : right . undergrad d : i think whenever we use these speech words we should always do the thing like you 're talking about , accent , postdoc e : oh , i see what you mean . and then `` hesitation `` . yeah . ok , and so then , uh , in terms of like words like `` uh `` and `` um `` i just wrote them because i figured there 's a limited number , and i keep them to a uh , limited set because it did n't matter if it was `` mmm `` or `` um `` , { comment } you know , versus `` um `` . so i just always wrote it as u m . and `` uh - huh `` , you know , `` uhuh . `` i mean , like a s set of like five . but in any case i did n't mark those . phd c : mm - hmm . phd b : `` uh - huh `` is `` u h h u h . `` h u h . `` postdoc e : i 'd be happy with that . that 'd be fine . it 'd be good to have that in the in the conventions , what 's to be used . phd c : huh - uh . grad a : i i did notice that there were some segments that had pauses on the beginning and end . we should probably mark areas that have no speakers as no speaker . then , so question mark colon is fine for that . postdoc e : yeah , that 's a fine idea . that 's a fine idea . grad a : just say silence . undergrad d : well , what 's that mean ? postdoc e : yeah , ok . yeah . undergrad d : you mean re grad a : no one 's talking . undergrad d : ye s oh . silence all around . phd b : we have to mark those ? postdoc e : so i had phd b : do n't they d ca n't we just leave them unmarked ? postdoc e : i d well , you see , that 's possible too . grad a : well , i wan na leave the marked i do n't want them to be part of another utterance . so you just you need to have the boundary at the start and the end . phd b : ok . sure . postdoc e : mm - hmm . now that 's refinement that , uh , maybe it could be handled by part of the part of the script or something more phd b : uh , yeah , it seems like it seems like the , uh , tran the transcription problem would be very different if we had these automatic speaker detection turn placing things . because suddenly i mean , i do n't know , actually it sounds like there might be a problem putting it into the software if the software only handles two parallel channels . but assuming we can get around that somehow . postdoc e : mm - hmm . well you were saying , i think it can read grad a : it can read and write as many as you want , it 's just that it postdoc e : uh - huh . phd b : but what if you wan na edit it ? right ? i mean , the point is we 're gon na generate this transcript with five five tracks in it , but with no words . someone 's gon na have to go in and type in the words . um , and if there are five five people speaking at once , grad a : right , i it 's i did n't explain it well . if we use the the little the conventions that jane has established , i have a script that will convert from that convention to their saved convention . phd b : oh , yeah . yes . postdoc e : which allows five . grad a : right . postdoc e : and it can be m edited after the fact , ca n't it also ? but their but their format , if you wanted to in indicate the speakers right there instead of doing it through this indirect route , then i they a c window comes up and it only allows you to enter two speakers . phd b : yeah . right . undergrad d : but you 're saying that by the time you call it back in to from their saved format it opens up a window with window with five speakers ? postdoc e : so . but . grad a : right . undergrad d : oh ! that is sort of f grad a : it 's just user interface . undergrad d : they did n't quite go the whole grad a : so i it 's undergrad d : yeah , they did n't go the whole route , grad a : the the the whole saved form the saved format and the internal format , all that stuff , handles multiple speakers . undergrad d : did they ? they just grad a : it 's just there 's no user interface for specifying multiple any more than two . undergrad d : right . so your your script solves does n't it solve all our problems , postdoc e : and that undergrad d : cuz we 're always gon na wan na go through this preprocessing uh , assuming it works . postdoc e : and that works nicely cuz this so quick to enter . so i would n't wan na do it through the interface anyway adding which worry who the speaker was . undergrad d : i see . right . good . postdoc e : and then , uh , let 's see what else . oh , yes , i i wanted to have so sometimes a pers i uh in terms of like the continuity of thought for transcriptions , it 's i it is n't just words coming out , it 's like there 's some purpose for an utterance . and sometimes someone will do a backchannel in the middle of it but you wan na show that it 's continued at a later point . so i have i have a convention of putting like a dash arrow just to indicate that this person 's utterance continues . and then when it uh , catches back up again then there 's an arrow dash , and then you have the opposite direction to indicate continuation of ones own utterance versus , um , sometimes we had the situation which is you know , which you which you get in conversations , { comment } of someone continuing someone else 's utterance , and in that case i did a tilde arrow versus a arrow tilde , to indicate that it was continuation but it was n't oh , i guess i did equal arrow for the for the own for yourself things phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc e : cuz it 's the speakers the same . and then tilde arrow if it was a different if a different speaker , uh , con continuation . but just , you know , the arrows showing continuation of a thought . phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc e : and then you could track whether it was the same speaker or not by knowing you know , at the end of this unit you 'd know what happened later . and that was like this person continued phd b : mm - hmm . postdoc e : and you 'd be able to look for the continuation . phd b : but the only time that becomes ambiguous is if you have two speakers . like , if you if you only have one person , if you only have one thought that 's continuing across a particular time boundary , you just need one arrow at each end , and if it 's picked up by a different speaker , it 's picked up by a different speaker . the time it becomes ambiguous if you have more than one speaker and that and they sort of swap . i guess if you have more than one thread going , then you then you need to know whether they were swapped or not . postdoc e : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd c : how often does that happen do you think ? postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd b : hopefully not very much . postdoc e : yeah , i did n't use it very often . grad a : especially for meetings . i mean , if i if you were just recording someone 's day , it would be impossible . you know , undergrad d : it l ou grad a : if you were trying to do a remembrance agent . but i think for meetings it 's probably alright . but , a lot of these issues , i think that for uh , from my point of view , where i just wan na do speech recognition and information retrieval , it does n't really matter . phd b : sure . grad a : but other people have other interests . phd b : i know . but it it does feel it does feel like it 's really in there . i you know i did this i did this transcription and i marked that , i marked it with ellipsis because it seemed like there was a difference . it 's something you wanted to indicate that it that i this was the end of the phrase , this was the end of that particular transcript , but it was continued later . grad a : right . phd b : and i picked up with an ellipsis . postdoc e : excellent . yeah . phd b : i did n't have the equal , not equal thing . postdoc e : yeah . well that 's you know , i mean i that 's why i did n't { comment } i did n't do it n i mean , that 's why i thought about it , and and re - ev phd b : yeah , yeah . postdoc e : and it did n't do i did n't do it in ten times the the time . grad a : well , so anyway , are we interested then in writing tools to try to generate any of this stuff automatically ? postdoc e : yeah . grad a : is that something you want to do , dan ? phd b : but it 's something @ @ that i feel we definitely ought to do . postdoc e : i also wanted to ask you if you have a time estimate on the part that you transcribed . do you have a sense of how long phd b : yeah , it took me half an hour to transcribe a minute , but i did n't have any i did n't even have a i was trying to get transcriber to run but i could n't . so i was doing it by typ typing into a text file and trying to fit it was horrible . postdoc e : ok . ok . undergrad d : so thirty to one 's what you got ? phd b : mm - hmm . undergrad d : so that 's a new upper limit ? phd b : yeah . postdoc e : well , i mean , that 's that 's because you did n't have the segmentation help and all the other grad a : but i think for a first try that 's about right . phd b : is it phd c : so so if we hired a who if we hired a whole bunch of dan 's undergrad d : that 's right . postdoc e : yeah . phd b : it was actually it was quite it was a t grad a : if we hire an infinite number of dan 's undergrad d : it 'd b a a postdoc e : and there 's always a warm up thing of grad a : are we gon na run out of disk space by the way ? phd b : yeah . grad a : good . undergrad d : d does n't it beep in the other room when you 're out of disk space ? phd c : so is there maybe we should s consider also , um , starting to build up a web site around all of these things . phd b : web site ! that 's great ! phd c : i know . grad a : dan 's sort of already started . phd b : we could have like business - to - business e - commerce as well ! phd c : that 's right . no , but i 'm it would be interesting it would be interesting to see grad a : can we sell banner ads ? undergrad d : get get paid for click - throughs ? grad a : what a good idea , phd b : yeah . grad a : that 's how we could pay for the transcription . phd c : i want to introduce i i want to introduce the word `` snot - head `` into the conversation at this point . phd b : we can have undergrad d : you wan na word that wo n't be recognized ? phd c : you see , cuz uh , cuz exactly . um . postdoc e : oh , i do n't think so . grad a : hey , what about me ? phd c : the r w what ok . postdoc e : you 're the one who raised the issue . phd c : no . alright , see here 's here 's here 's my thought behind it which is that , uh , the the stuff that you 've been describing , jane , i gu one has to , of course indicate , { comment } um , i is very interesting , postdoc e : alright . phd c : and i i 'd like to be able to to pore through , you know , the the types of tr conventions that you 've come up with and stuff like that . phd b : yeah , yeah , yeah . phd c : so i would like to see that kind of stuff on the web . postdoc e : ok , now , w the alternative to a web site would be to put it in doctor speech . phd b : yes . yes . postdoc e : cuz cuz what i have is a soft link to my transcription that i have on my account phd c : either 's fine . postdoc e : but it does n't matter . grad a : we can do it all . phd b : we can do it all ! we can write postdoc e : web site 's nice . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : then you have to t you have to do an ht access . undergrad d : web site 's what ? phd b : we could actually maybe we could use the tcl plug - in . oh , man . postdoc e : ooo ! he 's committed himself to something . phd c : ow . see he said the word tcl and and that 's undergrad d : but he does such a good job of it . he should be allowed to to , you know , w do it . postdoc e : i know , i know . phd b : i know , but that but , i right . but i should be allowed to but undergrad d : if you just did a crappy job , no nobody would want you to do it . phd b : i sh i should n't be allowed to by m by my own by my according to my own priorities . alright . let 's look at it anyway . so definitely we should we should have some kind of access to the data . grad a : and we have we have quite a disparate number of web and other sorts of documents on this project sort of spread around . phd c : yeah . grad a : i have several and dan has a few , and phd c : right , so we can add in links and stuff like that to other things . postdoc e : nice . phd b : well , yeah . phd c : the phd b : well so then th grad a : try try to s consolidate . i mean , who wants to do that though ? phd b : the other side is , yeah . phd c : uh , right . grad a : no one wants to do that . so . postdoc e : yeah . phd b : right , that 's the problem . phd c : well , we could put we could put sort of a disorganized sort of group gestalt undergrad d : why ? what what 's what 's the issue ? phd b : no one owns the project . undergrad d : no one what ? phd b : no one owns the project . grad a : yeah , i own the project but i do n't wan na do it . phd b : no one wants to own the project . phd c : right . undergrad d : w well do but grad a : it 's mine ! all mine ! phd b : well then you have to do the web site . undergrad d : but grad a : `` wah - hah - hah - hah - hah - hah . `` phd b : you know , it 's like , it 's that simple . undergrad d : b but but but what are you what are you talking about for web site hacking ? phd b : no undergrad d : you 're talking about writing html , right ? grad a : yeah , i i 'm talking about putting together all the data in a form that that is legible , and pleasant to read , and up to date , and et cetera , et cetera , et cetera . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : but , is it against the law to actually use a tool to help your job go easier ? grad a : absolutely . it 's it 's absolutely against the law to use a tool . i have n't found any tools that i like . it 's just as easy to use to edit the raw html as anything else . undergrad d : no kidding ? phd b : that 's obviously not true , grad a : it 's obviously not true . phd b : but you have undergrad d : no , it it it 's obviously true that he has n't found any he likes . phd b : right . that 's true . undergrad d : the question is what is what 's he looked at . postdoc e : which one do you use jim ? undergrad d : i use something called trellix . postdoc e : oh , that 's right . i remember . yeah . undergrad d : and it postdoc e : which produces also site maps . grad a : now , i guess if i were if i were doing more powerful excuse me more complex web sites i might want to . undergrad d : it 's - it it 's very powerful . grad a : but most of the web sites i do are n't that complex . postdoc e : well , would this be to document it also for outside people or mainly for in house use ? grad a : but . i think both . phd c : no , i think in grad a : mostly in house . phd b : that 's right . phd c : i think mostly internal . undergrad d : well , yeah , but what does internal mean ? phd b : no , both . undergrad d : i mean , you 're leaving . people at uw wan na look at it . i mean , it 's it 's internal { comment } until phd c : right . internal to the project . undergrad d : i see . postdoc e : we could do an ht access which would accommodate those things . phd b : i i i i grad a : ok , well , send me links and i wi send me pointers , rather , and i 'll put it together . phd b : i 'm not o postdoc e : wonderful . phd b : ok . i 'm not sure how how important that distinction is . i do n't think we should say , `` oh , it 's internal therefore we do n't have to make it very good `` . i mean , you can say `` oh oh , it 's internal phd c : no . no . phd b : therefore we can put data in it that we do n't we do n't have to worry about releasing `` . but i think the point is to try and be coherent and make it a nice presentation . undergrad d : right . i agree . postdoc e : yeah , it is true , that is it benefits to undergrad d : cuz you 're gon na have to wor do the work sooner or later . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : that 's right . i mean , it 's the early on . undergrad d : even if it 's just writing things up . you know ? postdoc e : it 's a great idea . grad a : ok , um , let 's move on to electronics . phd b : ah . great . undergrad d : d we we out of tape out of disk ? phd b : no , we 're doing we 're doing great . undergrad d : i i was looking for the actual box i plan to use , uh , but i c all i could i could n't find it at the local store . but this is the the technology . it 's actually a little bit thinner than this . and it 's two by two , by one , and it would fit right under the right under th the the the the lip , grad a : yeah , does everyone know about the lip on the table ? it 's great . undergrad d : yeah . there 's a lip in these tables . postdoc e : nice . undergrad d : and , it oc i p especially brought the bottom along to try and generate some frequencies that you may not already have recorded . grad a : clink ! clink ! undergrad d : let 's see see what it does to the but this was the uh just just to review , and i also brought this { comment } along rather than the projector so we can put these on the table , and sort of w push them around . grad a : and and crinkle them and phd b : what ? postdoc e : and th `` that `` being a diagram . phd b : what ? undergrad d : that that 's the six tables that we 're looking at . these six tables here , with with little boxes sort of , uh , in the middle here . phd b : i see . undergrad d : which es would i mean , the the boxes are pretty much out of the way anyway . i 'll - i 'll show you the the cro this is the table cross section . i do n't know if people realize what they 're looking at . phd b : you trying to screw up the m the microphones ? grad a : yes . he is . absolutely . phd b : i mean th undergrad d : well why not ? i mean , cuz this is what 's gon na happen . you got plenty of data . i wo n't come to your next meeting . and and and you so this is the box 's grad a : get your paper off my pda ! phd b : yeah . postdoc e : yeah , let let the record show that this is exhibit two b . undergrad d : that 's right . `` or not to be `` . yeah , yeah . grad a : yeah . undergrad d : uh , the box , uh there 's a half inch lip here . the box is an inch thick so it hangs down a half an inch . and so the the two head set jacks would be in the front and then the little led to indicate that that box is live . the the important issue about the led is the fact that we 're talking about eight of these total , which would be sixteen channels . and , uh , even though we have sixteen channels back at the capture , they 're not all gon na be used for this . so there 'd be a subset of them used for obviously j just use the ones at this end for for this many . so excuse me . you 'd like a a way to tell whether your box is live , so the led would n't be on . phd b : right . all the lights . undergrad d : so if you 're plugged in it does n't work and the led is off that 's that 's a tip off . and then the , uh would wire the all of the cables in a in a bundle come through here and o obviously collect these cables at the same time . postdoc e : that 's good . undergrad d : uh , so this this notion of putting down the p z ms and taking them away would somehow have to be turned into leaving them on the table grad a : right . well , we wan na do that definitely . undergrad d : or or right . right . and so the you we just epoxy them down or something . big screw into the table . phd b : velcro . undergrad d : uh , and even though there 's eight cables they 're not really very big around so my model is to get a a a p piece of grad a : sleeve . undergrad d : yeah , that that stuff that people put with the little you slip the wires into that 's sort of shaped like that cross section . grad a : oh . ok , not just sleeve them all ? undergrad d : yeah . i 'm i 'm r a i 'm going up and then i 'm going down . grad a : and leave them loose ? postdoc e : that looks like a semi - circle . phd b : yeah . it 's like a it 's a sleeping policeman . grad a : whoo ! phd b : speed bump ! postdoc e : sleeping pol phd b : speed bump . grad a : speed a `` sleeping policeman `` ! undergrad d : yeah , it 's like a speed bum an postdoc e : speed bump . that 's good . there we go s grad a : cool . undergrad d : and they 're ac they 're actually ext extruded from plastic . phd c : what is undergrad d : they sorta look like this . phd c : what does that mean ? phd b : that 's the s that 's british for speed bump , phd c : is it a speed bump ? undergrad d : so that the wires go through here . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : oh , is that right ? phd b : yeah . postdoc e : i never heard that . grad a : that 's really cruel . ok , so that undergrad d : s so it would c basically go on the diagonal here . phd c : it could go either way . grad a : so why do we have sixteen channels instead of like some fewer number ? phd b : yeah . phd c : i guess . undergrad d : uh , because the phd b : how else are you gon na distribute them around the tables ? undergrad d : because they 're there . grad a : well , ok , let me rephrase that . why two each ? phd b : oh , because then you do n't have to just have one each . so that if t if you have two people sitting next to each other they can actually go into the same box . undergrad d : yeah . and to see , thi this is really the way people sit on this table . th postdoc e : mm - hmm . undergrad d : uh . dot , dot , dot . postdoc e : which means two at each station . undergrad d : well that that 's the way people sit . that 's how many chairs are in the room . postdoc e : yeah . grad a : alright . postdoc e : yeah , i 'm just saying that for the recording . undergrad d : yeah . grad a : right . undergrad d : right . and certainly you could do a thing where all sixteen were plugged in . grad a : but then none of these . undergrad d : uh if if you ha if you had nothing else . grad a : right . n none of these and no p z ms then . undergrad d : yeah . right . right . i agree . phd b : only if you had well it depends on this box , right ? undergrad d : oh , true enough . and actually , at the m my plan is to only bring eight wires out of this box . phd b : exactly . grad a : oh , i did n't understand undergrad d : this this box thi - thi thi this box is a one off deal . postdoc e : that being the wiring box . grad a : oh , i see , i see . undergrad d : uh . and , uh , it 's function is to s to , uh , essentially a wire converter to go from these little blue wires to these black wires , plus supply power to the microphones cuz the the he the , uh , cheap head mounteds all require low voltage . grad a : so so you 'd imagine some sort of in some sort of patch panel on top to figure out what the mapping was between each d of these two and each of those one or what ? undergrad d : well i w i i the simplest thing i could imagine , i which is really , really simple is to quite literally that these things plug in . and there 's a there 's a plug on the end of each of these these , uh , ei eight cables . postdoc e : what phd b : yeah . postdoc e : ok . each of the blue wires ? phd b : but there are only four . undergrad d : an - and there 's only there 's only four slots that are you know , in in the first version or the version we 're planning to to build . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . grad a : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : so that that was the whole issue with the led , that you plug it in , the led comes on , and and and you 're live . grad a : oh , then it comes on . i see , i see . ok , good . undergrad d : now the the the subtle issue here is that tha i i have n't really figured out a solution for this . so , we it 'll have to be convention . what happens if somebody unplugs this because they plug in more of something else ? grad a : mm - hmm . undergrad d : well the there 's no clever way to let the up stream guys know that you 're really not being powered . so th there will be a certain amount of looking at cables has to be done if people , uh , rewire things . grad a : right . phd b : yeah , i mean , we i had that last time . but uh there are actually that you know , there 's an extra there 's a mix out on the radio receiver ? undergrad d : mm - hmm . phd b : so there are actually six xlr outs on the back of the radio receiver and only five cables going in , i had the wrong five , so i ended up not recording one of the channels and recording the mix . undergrad d : how interesting . d did you do any recognition on the mix mix out ? wonder whether it works any phd b : but i subtracted the four that i did have from the mix and got a pretty good approximation of the @ @ . undergrad d : got the fifth ? cool . postdoc e : oh , how great . grad a : and did it work ? phd b : yeah . grad a : did it sound good ? phd b : it 's not bad . undergrad d : is it is phd b : it 's not bad , yeah . undergrad d : ai n't science wonderful ? postdoc e : that 's amazing . phd b : yeah . grad a : so what 's the schedule on these things ? undergrad d : so phd b : but , you always undergrad d : uh , well i was wrestling with th with literally the w number of connectors in the cable and the the , uh , powering system . and i i was gon na do this very clever phantom power and i decided a couple days ago not to do it . so i 'm ready to build it . which is to say , uh , the neighborhood of a week to get the circuit board done . grad a : mm - hmm . so i think the other thing i 'd like to do is , do something about the set up so that it 's a little more presentable and organized . undergrad d : i agree . grad a : and i 'm i 'm just not sure what that is . i mean , some sort of cabinet . undergrad d : well i can build a cabinet . the the difficulty for this kind of project is the intellectual capital to design the cabinet . grad a : mm - hmm . undergrad d : in other words , to figure out ex exactly what the right thing is . that cabinet can can go away . we can use that for for uh kindling or something . but if you can imagine what the right form factor is . dan - dan and i have sort of gone around on this , and we were thinking about something that opened up in the top to allow access to the mixer for example . grad a : mm - hmm . undergrad d : but there 's these things sticking out of the mixer which are kind of a pain , so you end up with this thing that if if you stuck the mixer up here and the top opened , it 'd be it 'd be fine . you would n't necessarily well , you s understand what i 'm grad a : yeah , i understand . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : the the you can you can start start s sketching it out , and i can certainly build it out of oak no problem , would it you know , arb you know , arbitrarily amount of grad a : i need a desk at home too , alright ? is that gon na be a better solution than just going out and buy one ? undergrad d : well , the as we found out with the the thing that , uh , jeff bought a long time ago to hold our stereo system the stuff you buy is total crap . and i mean this is something you buy . grad a : mm - hmm . undergrad d : and and grad a : and it 's total crap . undergrad d : it 's total crap . well , it 's useless for this function . works fine for holding a kleenex , grad a : right , kleenex and telephones . undergrad d : but it right . grad a : um , so yeah , i g i guess it 's just a question , is that something you wan na spend your time on ? undergrad d : oh , i i 'm paid for . grad a : ok , great . undergrad d : i have no problem . no , but w certainly one of the issues is is the , uh is security . grad a : hmm ? mm - hmm . undergrad d : i mean , we 've been been been lax and lucky . phd b : yeah . yep . undergrad d : really lucky with these things . but they 're not ours , so phd b : yeah . undergrad d : the , uh the flat panels . phd b : oh , yeah ! grad a : i 'm telling you , i 'm just gon na cart one of them away if they stay there much longer . phd b : well w yeah , exactly . undergrad d : uh , let the record show at uh at f four thirty - five adam janin says postdoc e : wow . tempting . phd b : we 'll know we 'll know to come after . postdoc e : tempting . yeah . grad a : so , um , j uh , then the other question is do we wan na try to do a user interface that 's available out here ? phd b : sorry ? undergrad d : slipped almost slipped it by dan . postdoc e : use - user interface grad a : a user interface . i mean , do we wan na try to get a monitor ? or just something . phd b : oh ! sure . well of course we do . grad a : and how do we want to do that ? postdoc e : you mean like see see meter readings , from while sitting here . grad a : j just so we see something . undergrad d : how about use the thing that um aciri 's doing . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : which is to say just laptop with a wireless . phd b : yeah , yeah , yeah . sure . which we 'll borrow from them , when we need it . undergrad d : what 's wrong with yours ? if we bought you a a phd b : oh , a applecard . sure . right . yeah , you could use my machine . phd c : well undergrad d : what ? grad a : i have an iram machine i 've borrowed and we can use it . phd b : i or the undergrad d : n no , i 'm i 'm i 'm serious . does does the wireless thing work on your grad a : wait , is n't that an ethernet connection or is that a phone ? phd b : uh , that 's an ethernet connection . grad a : well phd b : it 's going next door . undergrad d : yeah no no i 'm a i i i ai n't joking here . grad a : we jus undergrad d : i 'm serious , that that it it phd b : yeah . no , no , absolutely , that 's the right way to do it . t to have it uh , just undergrad d : it 's very convenient especially if dan happens to be sitting at that end of the table to not have to run down here and and look in the thing every so often , phd b : yeah . and given given that we 've got a wireless that we 've got a we got the field . undergrad d : but just have the it 's right there . phd b : right . undergrad d : right ? the antenna 's right there , grad a : right . phd b : yeah . yeah . undergrad d : right outside the phd b : i do n't know . undergrad d : y i mean , we need obviously need to clear this with aciri but , uh , how tough can that be ? there it you 'd all you need 's web access , is n't it ? phd b : w we do n't need x access undergrad d : in in theory . phd b : but i mean that 's fine . that 's that 's what it does , yeah . undergrad d : great , great . phd b : so grad a : right , so it 's just a question of getting a laptop and a wireless modem . phd b : with a with a with a w undergrad d : no , and he he had , reque @ @ my my proposal is you have a laptop . phd b : no . yeah . i do ! undergrad d : you do n't ? phd b : yeah . yeah , yeah . undergrad d : if if we bought you the thing would you mind using it with i the the phd b : no , i would love to but i 'm not sure if my laptop is compatible with the wave lan thing they 're using . undergrad d : really ? grad a : to mac . phd b : well apple has their own thing , right ? phd c : he 's undergrad d : your new one ? grad a : airport . undergrad d : i 'm sorry ? phd b : apple has their own thing . and undergrad d : i thought it just came through a serial p or an ethernet port . phd b : yeah , i think what i think you i think it just plug plugs in a pc card , so you could probably make it run with that , but . grad a : the question is , is there an apple driver ? undergrad d : i e phd b : yeah , i 'm sure . i imagine there is . but uh anyway there are there are abs there are a bunch of machines at icsi that have those cards undergrad d : but the two t phd b : and so i think if w if it does n't we should be able to find a machine that does that . i i mean i know that does n't do n't do n't the important people have those little blue vaios that undergrad d : well , uh , b that to me that 's a whole nother . that 's a whole nother issue . postdoc e : hmm . hmm . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : the the idea of con convincing them that we should use their network i is fairly straight forward . phd b : yeah . yeah . undergrad d : the idea of being able to walk into their office and say , `` oh , can i borrow your machine for a while `` , is is is a non - starter . phd b : yeah . i see . undergrad d : that i i do n't think that 's gon na work . so , i mean , either either we figure out how to use a machine somebody already in the group already owns , a a and the idea is that if it 's it perk , you know , it 's an advantage not not a disadvan { comment } or else we we literally buy a machine e exactly for that purpose . phd b : yeah . yeah , yeah . absolutely . yeah . undergrad d : certainly it solves a lot of the problems with leaving a monitor out here all the time . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : i i i i 'm i 'm not a big fan of doing things to the room that make the room less attractive for other people , grad a : right . undergrad d : right ? which is part of the reason for getting all this stuff out of the way grad a : yeah . undergrad d : and and , so a monitor sitting here all the time you know people are gon na walk up to it and go , `` how come i ca n't get , you know , pong on this `` or , whatev grad a : mm - hmm . right . i 've i 've borrowed the iram vaio sony thingy , phd c : well grad a : and i do n't think they 're ever gon na want it back . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : right . phd b : you 're kidding ! undergrad d : well , the next conference they will . grad a : so . sure . undergrad d : yeah . grad a : but that does mean so we can use that as well . undergrad d : well , uh , the certainly , u you should give it a shot first see whether you you can get compatible stuff . phd b : mm - hmm . undergrad d : uh , ask them what it costs . ask them if they have an extra one . who knows , they might have an extra hardware s phd b : i 'd trade them a flat panel display for it . yeah . phd c : what is the , um , projector supposed to be hooked up to ? undergrad d : good . uh , the , uh tsk . it 's gon na be hooked up to all sorts of junk . there 's gon na be actually a a plug at the front that 'll connect to people 's laptops so you can walk in and plug it in . and it 's gon na be con connected to the machine at the back . so we certainly could use that as as a constant reminder of what the vu meters are doing . phd b : huge vu meters . undergrad d : so people sitting here { comment } are going `` testing , one , two , three `` ! phd c : but i mean , that 's another that 's another possibility that , you know , solves undergrad d : it a phd b : yeah . undergrad d : yeah . phd b : that 's an end undergrad d : but but but i think the idea of having a control panel it 's that 's there in front of you is really cool . phd b : yeah . yeah , yeah . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd b : i think and uh , having having it on wireless is is the neatest way neatest way to do it . grad a : i had undergrad d : as long as you d as l as long as you 're not tempted to sit there and f keep fiddling with the volume controls going , `` can you talk a bit louder ? `` phd b : yeah . grad a : i had actually earlier asked if i could borrow one of the cards to do wireless stuff phd b : yeah . grad a : and they said , `` sure , whenever you want `` . so i think it wo n't be a problem . phd b : oh , cool . ok . undergrad d : and and it 's a a pcmcia card , right ? pc card , grad a : pc card . undergrad d : so you can have a slot , phd b : yeah , yeah . undergrad d : right ? in your new machine ? phd c : it 's it really come down to the driver . undergrad d : is it with s phd b : yeah . phd c : i mean grad a : right , i mean , and if and if his does n't work , as i said , we can use the pc . undergrad d : right , i it 'll it 'll work it 'll work the first time . i i trust steve jobs . grad a : good . so phd b : well , that sounds like a d good solution one way or the other . grad a : so jim is gon na be doing wiring and you 're gon na give some thought to cabinets ? undergrad d : uh , y yeah . grad a : great . undergrad d : we we need to figure out what we want . uh phd b : we 'd i think undergrad d : hey , what are those green lights doing ? grad a : they 're flashing ! phd b : uh - oh ! uh - oh ! does that it means it means it 's gon na explode . no . undergrad d : cut the red wire , the red wire ! phd b : um grad a : when people talk , it they go on and off . phd b : this so again , washington wants to equip a system . our system , we spent ten thousand dollars on equipment not including the pc . however , seven and a half thousand of that was the wireless mikes . uh , undergrad d : mm - hmm . phd b : using using these undergrad d : and it and the f the five thousand for the wires , so if i 'm gon na do no . phd b : yeah , undergrad d : it 's a joke . phd b : that 's true undergrad d : i have to do phd b : but we have n't spent that , right ? but once we once we 've done the intellectual part of these , uh , we can just knock them out , right ? grad a : cheap . phd b : we can start we you can make a hundred of them or something . undergrad d : oh , of the of the boards ? yeah , yeah , sure , right . phd b : and then we could washington could have a system that did n't have any wireless but would had what 's based on these undergrad d : mm - hmm . phd b : and it would cost grad a : a pc and a peanuts . undergrad d : peanuts . phd b : pc and two thousand dollars for the a - to - d stuff . grad a : yeah . phd b : and that 's about cuz you would n't even need the mixer if you did n't have the oh th the p z undergrad d : right . phd b : p z ms cost a lot . but anyway you 'd save , on the seven seven or eight thousand for the for the wireless system . so actually that might be attractive . undergrad d : right . grad a : good . phd b : ok , i can move my thumb now . postdoc e : that 's a great idea . undergrad d : what ? postdoc e : it 's nice it 's nice to be thinking toward that . undergrad d : oh , i thought like if we talked softer the disk lasts longer . grad a : well , actually shorten phd b : yeah . grad a : there 's a speech compression program that works great on things like this , cuz if the dynamic range is low it encodes it with fewer bits . and so most of the time no one 's talking so it shortens it dramatically . but if you talk quieter , the dynamic range is lower and it will compress better . so . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : oh . hmm . undergrad d : it also helps if you talk in a monotone . grad a : probably . undergrad d : constant volume all the time . postdoc e : oh , interesting . and shorter words . grad a : shorter words . phd c : now , shorter words would n't would induce more dynamics , right ? you want to have phd b : yeah , but if the words are more predictable . grad a : how about if you just go `` uh `` ? postdoc e : that 's a long word ! grad a : how do you spell that ? postdoc e : i do n't know . grad a : ok , can you do one more round of digits ? are we done talking ? undergrad d : well it 's a choice if we get a choice , let 's keep talking . grad a : do we have more to talk about ? undergrad d : sure . no , i 'm done . phd c : i 'm done . grad a : are you done ? postdoc e : i 'm done , grad a : i 'm done . postdoc e : yeah . phd c : dan is n't but he 's not gon na say anything . undergrad d : but you you you there 's a problem a structural problem with this though . you really need an incentive at the end if you 're gon na do digits again . like , you know , candy bars or something , grad a : i 'll i 'll remember to bring m and m 's next time . undergrad d : or or or or or a little , uh you know , toothbrushes like they give you at the d dentist . postdoc e : or both . undergrad d : or both . phd b : sorry . undergrad d : eric , you and i win . we did n't make any mistakes . grad a : it 's harder at the end than at the beginning . postdoc e : we do n't know that for sure , do we ? grad a : i should have mentioned that s uh , to pause between lines but undergrad d : no , i know . i 'm just giving you a hard time . grad a : it 's it 's only a hard time for the transcriber not for the speech recognizer . phd b : tha - tha postdoc e : but i also think you said channel four and i think you meant microphone four . and i think that 's a mistake . undergrad d : very good . so eric , you win . but the other thing is that there 's a there 's a colon for transcripts . and there should n't be a colon . because see , everything else is stuff you fill in . phd b : yeah , that 's been filled in for you . undergrad d : right ? automatically . phd b : but they 're in order ! undergrad d : but real phd b : they start , six , seven , eight , nine , zero , one , two , three , four , five , six , eight , nine . undergrad d : where 'd they come from ? phd b : and they 're in order because they 're sorted lexically by the file names , which are have the numbers in digits . and so they 're actually this is like all the all utterances that were generated by speaker mpj or something . and then within mpj they 're sorted by what he actually said . grad a : ugh ! i did n't know that . i should have randomized it . phd b : it does n't matter ! it 's like cuz you said `` six , seven , eight `` . undergrad d : well , we think it does n't matter . phd b : we think it does n't matter . if i if not i undergrad d : but the real question i have is that , why bother with these ? postdoc e : oh , interesting . undergrad d : why do n't you just ask people to repeat numbers they already know ? like phone numbers , you know , social security numbers . phd b : cuz we have these writt written down , right ? grad a : because right . phd b : that 's why grad a : if we have it , uh undergrad d : i know . postdoc e : social security numbers . grad a : we do n't have to transcribe . phd b : you can you can generate postdoc e : bank account numbers . undergrad d : credit card numbers , grad a : we do n't have to tran undergrad d : yeah . grad a : yeah , please . phd b : yeah . that 's a great idea . postdoc e : passport numbers . undergrad d : yeah , so you just say say your credit card numbers , say your phone numbers , say your mother 's maiden name . grad a : bet we could do it . undergrad d : you know pe postdoc e : password to your account . undergrad d : people off the street . postdoc e : go on . undergrad d : this grad a : actually , this i got this directly from another training set , from aurora . phd b : alright . grad a : so . we can compare directly . phd b : looks good . looks like there were no errors . postdoc e : i was i the reason i made my mistake was grad a : what ? postdoc e : wa - was this ? phd b : there were no there were no direct driver errors , by the look of it , which is good . grad a : great . postdoc e : good news . grad a : ok , the mike 's off . phd b : so i 'm gon na stop it . yeah , ok . grad a : thank you all . undergrad d : mony on the mike . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion on the transcription pipeline </s> phd b : the data ? grad a : right . right . i mean , so we 're we 're collecting a corpus and i think it 's gon na be generally useful . i mean , it seems like it 's not a corpus which is uh , has been done before . and so i think people will be interested in having having it , and so we will undergrad d : u using , like , audio d v ds or something like that ? grad a : excuse me ? undergrad d : audio d v grad a : well , or something . yeah , audio d v c ds , you know . undergrad d : yeah . tapes . grad a : and and so how we do we distribute the transcripts , how do we distribute the audio files , how do we how do we just do all that infrastructure ? phd c : well , i think i mean , for that particular issue ther there are known sources where people go to to find these kind of things like the ldc for instance . postdoc e : yeah , grad a : right , but but so should we do it in the same format as ldc postdoc e : that 's right . grad a : and what does that mean to what we 've done already ? phd b : right . the it 's not so much the actu the logistics of distribution are secondary to preparing the data in a suitable form for distribution . phd c : right . grad a : right . so , uh , as it is , it 's sort of a ad - hoc combination of stuff dan set and stuff i set up , which we may wan na make a little more formal . so . phd b : and the other thing is that , um , university of washington may want to start recording meetings as well , grad a : right . phd b : in which case w w we 'll have to decide what we 've actually got so that we can give them a copy . grad a : that 's right . undergrad d : a field trip . grad a : yeah . i was actually thinking i would n't mind spending the summer up there . that would be kind of fun . phd b : oh , really ? grad a : yeah . visit my friends and spend some time phd b : different for you . yes . grad a : well , and then also i have a bunch of stuff for doing this digits . so i have a bunch of scripts with x waves , and some perl scripts , and other things that make it really easy to extract out and align where the digits are . and if u d uw 's going to do the same thing i think it 's worth while for them to do these digits tasks as well . undergrad d : mm - hmm . grad a : and what i 've done is pretty ad - hoc , um , so we might wan na change it over to something a little more standard . you know , stm files , or xml , or something . undergrad d : an - and there 's interest up there ? grad a : what 's that ? undergrad d : there 's interest up there ? grad a : well they they certainly wan na collect more data . and so they 're applying , i think i b is that right ? something like that . phd b : i do n't know . grad a : um , for some more money to do more data . so we were planning to do like thirty or forty hours worth of meetings . they wan na do an additional hundred or so hours . so , they want a very large data set . um , but of course we 're not gon na do that if we do n't get money . so . phd b : i see . grad a : and i would like that just to get a disjoint speaker set and a disjoint room . i mean , one of the things morgan and i were talking about is we 're gon na get to know this room really well , phd c : mm - hmm . grad a : the the acoustics of this room . phd b : all about that . undergrad d : including the fan . grad a : including the fan . undergrad d : did you notice the fan difference ? phd b : oh , now you 've touched the fan control , now all our data 's gon na be undergrad d : hear the difference ? grad a : oh , it 's enormous . phd b : yeah , it 's great . postdoc e : oh , that 's better . undergrad d : do you wan na leave it off or not ? postdoc e : that 's better . grad a : all the others have been on . phd b : that 's undergrad d : yeah , the you sure ? phd b : oh , yeah . grad a : y absolut phd b : absolutely . undergrad d : you you think that grad a : yeah . undergrad d : things after the f then this fan 's wired backwards by the way . uh , i think this is high speed here . postdoc e : yeah , it 's noticeable . undergrad d : well , not clear . phd b : well it 's well like `` low `` is mid mid - scale . undergrad d : maybe it maybe it is n't . phd b : so it could be that it 's not actually wired backwards undergrad d : that 's right . phd b : it 's just that ambiguous . undergrad d : i was wondering also , get ready . { comment } whether the lights made any noise . postdoc e : uh - huh . grad a : there 's definitely yep . phd b : oh , they do . phd c : yeah , a little bit . phd b : yeah . grad a : high pitch hum . wow . undergrad d : so , do our meetings in the dark with no air conditioning in the future . grad a : yeah , just get a variety . postdoc e : i think candles would be nice if they do n't make noise . grad a : they 're very good . phd b : oh , yeah . phd c : it would you know , it would real really mean that we should do short meetings when you turn off the { comment } turn off the air conditioning , grad a : carbon monoxide poisoning ? undergrad d : short meetings , that 's right . or yeah , sort of { comment } r r phd c : got to finish this meeting . undergrad d : tear t tear your clothing off to stay cool . phd c : that 's right . undergrad d : actually , the a th air the air conditioning 's still working , that 's just an auxiliary fan . phd c : right , i see . so , um , in addition to this issue about the uw stuff there was announced today , uh , via the ldc , um , a corpus from i believe santa barbara . postdoc e : yeah , i saw it . i 've been watching for that corpus . phd c : um , of general spoken english . postdoc e : yeah . yep . phd c : and i do n't know exactly how they recorded it but apparently there 's a lot of different styles of speech and what not . grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : and postdoc e : they had people come in to a certain degree and they and they have dat recorders . phd c : i see . so it is sort of far field stuff . right ? postdoc e : i i assume so , actually , i had n't thought about that . unless they added close field later on but , um , i 've listened to some of those data and i , um , i 've been i i was actually on the advisory board for when they set the project up . grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : oh , ok . phd b : what 's it sound like ? postdoc e : i 'm glad to see that it got released . grad a : yeah , i i wish postdoc e : so it it 's a very nice thing . grad a : i wish we had someone here working on adaptation because it would nice to be able to take that stuff and adapt it to a meeting setting . you know phd c : but it may be it may be useful in postdoc e : how do you mean do you mean mechanical adaptation or grad a : no , software , to adapt the speech recognition . phd c : well , what i was thinking is it may be useful in transcribing , if it 's far field stuff , grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : right ? in doing , um , some of our first automatic speech recognition models , it may be useful to have that kind of data postdoc e : great idea . phd c : because that 's very different than any kind of data that we have so far . grad a : that 's true . postdoc e : and and their recording conditions are really clean . i mean , i 've i 've heard i 've listened to the data . grad a : well that 's not good , right ? phd c : that 's that 's not great . postdoc e : it sounds well but what i mean is that , um undergrad d : but far field means great distance ? i mean grad a : just these . undergrad d : not head mounted ? phd b : yeah . undergrad d : and so that 's why they 're getting away with just two channels or something , or are they using multiple dats ? postdoc e : um , oh , good question and i ca n't ans answer it . grad a : well we can look into it . postdoc e : i do n't know . phd c : no , and their web their web page did n't answer it either . so i 'm , i uh , was thinking that we should contact them . so it 's that 's sort of a beside - the - point point . but . grad a : so we can get that just with , uh , media costs , undergrad d : still a point . phd c : right . grad a : is that right ? phd c : uh , in fact we get it for free cuz they 're distributing it through the ldc . grad a : great . so that would be yeah , that would be something to look into . so . phd c : so , i can i can actually arrange for it to arrive in short order if we 're postdoc e : the other thing too is from from a grad a : well , it 's silly to do unless we 're gon na have someone to work on it , so maybe we need to think about it a little bit . postdoc e : the other thing too is that their their jus their transcription format is really nice and simple in in the discourse domain . but they also mentioned that they have it time aligned . i mean , i s i i saw that write - up . phd c : yeah . maybe we should maybe we should get a copy of it just to see what they did phd b : yeah , absolutely . grad a : yeah . phd c : so so that we can we can compare . postdoc e : it 's very nice . grad a : ok , why do n't you go ahead and do that then eric ? phd b : absolutely . phd c : alright , i 'll do that . i ca n't remember the name of the corpus . it 's corps - s postdoc e : csae . phd c : s postdoc e : corpus of spoken american english . phd c : right , ok . postdoc e : yeah , sp i 've been i was really pleased to see that . i knew that they they had had some funding problems in completing it phd b : uh - huh . phd c : yeah . postdoc e : but , um , phd c : well they 're postdoc e : this is clever . phd c : apparently this was like phase one postdoc e : got it through the ldc . phd c : and the there 's still more that they 're gon na do apparently or something like that unless of course they have funding issues postdoc e : great . great . phd c : and then then it ma they may not do phase two but from all the web documentation it looked like , `` oh , this is phase one `` , whatever that means . postdoc e : super . super . great . yeah , that i mean , they 're really well respected in the linguistics d side too and the discourse area , and so this is a very good corpus . phd c : but , it uh it would also maybe help be helpful for liz , if she wanted to start working on some discourse issues , you know , looking at some of this data and then , grad a : right . phd c : you know so when she gets here maybe that might be a good thing for her . grad a : actually , that 's another thing i was thinking about is that maybe jane should talk to liz , to see if there are any transcription issues related to discourse that she needs to get marked . phd c : maybe we should have a big meeting meeting . phd b : sure , of course . undergrad d : that would be a meeting meeting meeting ? grad a : a meeting meeting meeting . phd c : yeah . grad a : well this is the meeting about the meeting meeting meeting . so . phd c : right . but maybe we should , uh find some day that liz uh , liz and andreas seem to be around more often . grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : so maybe we should find a day when they 're gon na be here and and morgan 's gon na be here , and we can meet , at least this subgroup . i mean , not necessarily have the u - dub people down . grad a : well , i was even thinking that maybe we need to at least ping the u - dub to see </s>
<s> what did the team think about distributing the corpus ? </s> grad a : right . right . i mean , so we 're we 're collecting a corpus and i think it 's gon na be generally useful . i mean , it seems like it 's not a corpus which is uh , has been done before . and so i think people will be interested in having having it , and so we will undergrad d : u using , like , audio d v ds or something like that ? grad a : excuse me ? undergrad d : audio d v grad a : well , or something . yeah , audio d v c ds , you know . undergrad d : yeah . tapes . grad a : and and so how we do we distribute the transcripts , how do we distribute the audio files , how do we how do we just do all that infrastructure ? phd c : well , i think i mean , for that particular issue ther there are known sources where people go to to find these kind of things like the ldc for instance . postdoc e : yeah , grad a : right , but but so should we do it in the same format as ldc postdoc e : that 's right . grad a : and what does that mean to what we 've done already ? phd b : right . the it 's not so much the actu the logistics of distribution are secondary to preparing the data in a suitable form for distribution . phd c : right . grad a : right . so , uh , as it is , it 's sort of a ad - hoc combination of stuff dan set and stuff i set up , which we may wan na make a little more formal . so . phd b : and the other thing is that , um , university of washington may want to start recording meetings as well , grad a : right . phd b : in which case w w we 'll have to decide what we 've actually got so that we can give them a copy . grad a : that 's right . undergrad d : a field trip . grad a : yeah . i was actually thinking i would n't mind spending the summer up there . that would be kind of fun . phd b : oh , really ? grad a : yeah . visit my friends and spend some time phd b : different for you . yes . grad a : well , and then also i have a bunch of stuff for doing this digits . so i have a bunch of scripts with x waves , and some perl scripts , and other things that make it really easy to extract out and align where the digits are . and if u d uw 's going to do the same thing i think it 's worth while for them to do these digits tasks as well . undergrad d : mm - hmm . grad a : and what i 've done is pretty ad - hoc , um , so we might wan na change it over to something a little more standard . you know , stm files , or xml , or something . </s>
<s> what did the team think about dat ? </s> phd c : so , um , in addition to this issue about the uw stuff there was announced today , uh , via the ldc , um , a corpus from i believe santa barbara . postdoc e : yeah , i saw it . i 've been watching for that corpus . phd c : um , of general spoken english . postdoc e : yeah . yep . phd c : and i do n't know exactly how they recorded it but apparently there 's a lot of different styles of speech and what not . grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : and postdoc e : they had people come in to a certain degree and they and they have dat recorders . phd c : i see . so it is sort of far field stuff . right ? postdoc e : i i assume so , actually , i had n't thought about that . unless they added close field later on but , um , i 've listened to some of those data and i , um , i 've been i i was actually on the advisory board for when they set the project up . grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : oh , ok . phd b : what 's it sound like ? postdoc e : i 'm glad to see that it got released . grad a : yeah , i i wish postdoc e : so it it 's a very nice thing . grad a : i wish we had someone here working on adaptation because it would nice to be able to take that stuff and adapt it to a meeting setting . you know phd c : but it may be it may be useful in postdoc e : how do you mean do you mean mechanical adaptation or grad a : no , software , to adapt the speech recognition . phd c : well , what i was thinking is it may be useful in transcribing , if it 's far field stuff , grad a : mm - hmm . phd c : right ? in doing , um , some of our first automatic speech recognition models , it may be useful to have that kind of data postdoc e : great idea . phd c : because that 's very different than any kind of data that we have so far . grad a : that 's true . postdoc e : and and their recording conditions are really clean . i mean , i 've i 've heard i 've listened to the data . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about electronics </s> grad a : ok , um , let 's move on to electronics . phd b : ah . great . undergrad d : d we we out of tape out of disk ? phd b : no , we 're doing we 're doing great . undergrad d : i i was looking for the actual box i plan to use , uh , but i c all i could i could n't find it at the local store . but this is the the technology . it 's actually a little bit thinner than this . and it 's two by two , by one , and it would fit right under the right under th the the the the lip , grad a : yeah , does everyone know about the lip on the table ? it 's great . undergrad d : yeah . there 's a lip in these tables . postdoc e : nice . undergrad d : and , it oc i p especially brought the bottom along to try and generate some frequencies that you may not already have recorded . grad a : clink ! clink ! undergrad d : let 's see see what it does to the but this was the uh just just to review , and i also brought this { comment } along rather than the projector so we can put these on the table , and sort of w push them around . grad a : and and crinkle them and phd b : what ? postdoc e : and th `` that `` being a diagram . phd b : what ? undergrad d : that that 's the six tables that we 're looking at . these six tables here , with with little boxes sort of , uh , in the middle here . phd b : i see . undergrad d : which es would i mean , the the boxes are pretty much out of the way anyway . i 'll - i 'll show you the the cro this is the table cross section . i do n't know if people realize what they 're looking at . phd b : you trying to screw up the m the microphones ? grad a : yes . he is . absolutely . phd b : i mean th undergrad d : well why not ? i mean , cuz this is what 's gon na happen . you got plenty of data . i wo n't come to your next meeting . and and and you so this is the box 's grad a : get your paper off my pda ! phd b : yeah . postdoc e : yeah , let let the record show that this is exhibit two b . undergrad d : that 's right . `` or not to be `` . yeah , yeah . grad a : yeah . undergrad d : uh , the box , uh there 's a half inch lip here . the box is an inch thick so it hangs down a half an inch . and so the the two head set jacks would be in the front and then the little led to indicate that that box is live . the the important issue about the led is the fact that we 're talking about eight of these total , which would be sixteen channels . and , uh , even though we have sixteen channels back at the capture , they 're not all gon na be used for this . so there 'd be a subset of them used for obviously j just use the ones at this end for for this many . so excuse me . you 'd like a a way to tell whether your box is live , so the led would n't be on . phd b : right . all the lights . undergrad d : so if you 're plugged in it does n't work and the led is off that 's that 's a tip off . and then the , uh would wire the all of the cables in a in a bundle come through here and o obviously collect these cables at the same time . postdoc e : that 's good . undergrad d : uh , so this this notion of putting down the p z ms and taking them away would somehow have to be turned into leaving them on the table grad a : right . well , we wan na do that definitely . undergrad d : or or right . right . and so the you we just epoxy them down or something . big screw into the table . phd b : velcro . undergrad d : uh , and even though there 's eight cables they 're not really very big around so my model is to get a a a p piece of grad a : sleeve . undergrad d : yeah , that that stuff that people put with the little you slip the wires into that 's sort of shaped like that cross section . grad a : oh . ok , not just sleeve them all ? undergrad d : yeah . i 'm i 'm r a i 'm going up and then i 'm going down . grad a : and leave them loose ? postdoc e : that looks like a semi - circle . phd b : yeah . it 's like a it 's a sleeping policeman . grad a : whoo ! phd b : speed bump ! postdoc e : sleeping pol phd b : speed bump . grad a : speed a `` sleeping policeman `` ! undergrad d : yeah , it 's like a speed bum an postdoc e : speed bump . that 's good . there we go s grad a : cool . undergrad d : and they 're ac they 're actually ext extruded from plastic . phd c : what is undergrad d : they sorta look like this . phd c : what does that mean ? phd b : that 's the s that 's british for speed bump , phd c : is it a speed bump ? undergrad d : so that the wires go through here . phd b : yeah . postdoc e : oh , is that right ? phd b : yeah . postdoc e : i never heard that . grad a : that 's really cruel . ok , so that undergrad d : s so it would c basically go on the diagonal here . phd c : it could go either way . grad a : so why do we have sixteen channels instead of like some fewer number ? phd b : yeah . phd c : i guess . undergrad d : uh , because the phd b : how else are you gon na distribute them around the tables ? undergrad d : because they 're there . grad a : well , ok , let me rephrase that . why two each ? phd b : oh , because then you do n't have to just have one each . so that if t if you have two people sitting next to each other they can actually go into the same box . undergrad d : yeah . and to see , thi this is really the way people sit on this table . th postdoc e : mm - hmm . undergrad d : uh . dot , dot , dot . postdoc e : which means two at each station . undergrad d : well that that 's the way people sit . that 's how many chairs are in the room . postdoc e : yeah . grad a : alright . postdoc e : yeah , i 'm just saying that for the recording . undergrad d : yeah . grad a : right . undergrad d : right . and certainly you could do a thing where all sixteen were plugged in . grad a : but then none of these . undergrad d : uh if if you ha if you had nothing else . grad a : right . n none of these and no p z ms then . undergrad d : yeah . right . right . i agree . phd b : only if you had well it depends on this box , right ? undergrad d : oh , true enough . and actually , at the m my plan is to only bring eight wires out of this box . phd b : exactly . grad a : oh , i did n't understand undergrad d : this this box thi - thi thi this box is a one off deal . postdoc e : that being the wiring box . grad a : oh , i see , i see . undergrad d : uh . and , uh , it 's function is to s to , uh , essentially a wire converter to go from these little blue wires to these black wires , plus supply power to the microphones cuz the the he the , uh , cheap head mounteds all require low voltage . grad a : so so you 'd imagine some sort of in some sort of patch panel on top to figure out what the mapping was between each d of these two and each of those one or what ? undergrad d : well i w i i the simplest thing i could imagine , i which is really , really simple is to quite literally that these things plug in . and there 's a there 's a plug on the end of each of these these , uh , ei eight cables . postdoc e : what phd b : yeah . postdoc e : ok . each of the blue wires ? phd b : but there are only four . undergrad d : an - and there 's only there 's only four slots that are you know , in in the first version or the version we 're planning to to build . postdoc e : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . grad a : mm - hmm . phd b : yeah . undergrad d : so that that was the whole issue with the led , that you plug it in , the led comes on , and and and you 're live . grad a : oh , then it comes on . i see , i see . ok , good . undergrad d : now the the the subtle issue here is that tha i i have n't really figured out a solution for this . so , we it 'll have to be convention . what happens if somebody unplugs this because they plug in more of something else ? grad a : mm - hmm . </s>
<s> what did the team think about power cables ? </s> undergrad d : well the there 's no clever way to let the up stream guys know that you 're really not being powered . so th there will be a certain amount of looking at cables has to be done if people , uh , rewire things . grad a : right . phd b : yeah , i mean , we i had that last time . but uh there are actually that you know , there 's an extra there 's a mix out on the radio receiver ? undergrad d : mm - hmm . phd b : so there are actually six xlr outs on the back of the radio receiver and only five cables going in , i had the wrong five , so i ended up not recording one of the channels and recording the mix . undergrad d : how interesting . d did you do any recognition on the mix mix out ? wonder whether it works any phd b : but i subtracted the four that i did have from the mix and got a pretty good approximation of the @ @ . undergrad d : got the fifth ? cool . postdoc e : oh , how great . grad a : and did it work ? phd b : yeah . grad a : did it sound good ? phd b : it 's not bad . undergrad d : is it is phd b : it 's not bad , yeah . undergrad d : ai n't science wonderful ? postdoc e : that 's amazing . phd b : yeah . grad a : so what 's the schedule on these things ? undergrad d : so phd b : but , you always undergrad d : uh , well i was wrestling with th with literally the w number of connectors in the cable and the the , uh , powering system . and i i was gon na do this very clever phantom power and i decided a couple days ago not to do it . so i 'm ready to build it . which is to say , uh , the neighborhood of a week to get the circuit board done . grad a : mm - hmm . so i think the other thing i 'd like to do is , do something about the set up so that it 's a little more presentable and organized . undergrad d : i agree . grad a : and i 'm i 'm just not sure what that is . i mean , some sort of cabinet . undergrad d : well i can build a cabinet . the the difficulty for this kind of project is the intellectual capital to design the cabinet . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone , and welcome to the children , young people and education committee . we 've received apologies for absence from janet finch-saunders . i 'd like to take this opportunity to welcome suzy davies to the committee , and to thank mark reckless and darren millar , who have left us , for their service and hard work as members of the committee . can i ask whether there are any declarations of interest , please ? no . okay . we will move on then to our evidence session on our inquiry into the impact of brexit on higher and further education . i 'm very pleased to welcome kirsty williams , cabinet secretary for education , and eluned morgan am , minister for welsh language and lifelong learning . can i just ask you to introduce your officials for the record , please ? kirsty williams am : bore da , lynne , and thank you for the invitation to join you . eluned and i are joined this morning by huw morris , who 's the group director at shell—skills , higher education and lifelong learning—and marie knox , who is deputy director , overseeing european transition . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you very much , and thank you for coming . we 'll go straight into questions , then , and the first questions are from suzy davies . suzy davies am : thank you . i 'd like to ask you both , if that 's okay , a little bit about preparedness . but if i could start with higher education , i understand that—i do n't know , it must be about 18 months ago now—ken skates told another committee in this place that there had been nine sector analyses done . presumably , one of those was he , because of the—well , welsh government had a presence , and still does , in brussels , related to higher education . apparently , those have now been superseded by work that 's been done by cardiff university . i do n't know if you 've got any comments on that research , or whether it 's been brought to your attention yet . kirsty williams am : well , suzy , following the vote , i was very keen that we work very closely with colleagues in higher education and further education , to get an understanding from on the ground about the potential impact . so , in terms of preparedness , we started that group in the september , and that work from that group , which includes both he and fe , has been instrumental in helping the government form its views , which were articulated in the government 's white paper , 'securing wales ' future ' . there has been ongoing work being done—as the debate in london and europe becomes a little bit more clear , then it becomes a little less clear , and then a little bit more clear , but , bearing in mind the difficulties of working in an ever-changing field , we have been refining those approaches . each institution has been looking at their own institution , because , as you can imagine , although we have an overview of the sector , the challenges are very different for individual institutions—so their exposure , for instance , to the number of european union students that they have at their college , or the work that they might be doing with horizon 2020 , or their success—and there has been considerable success in the he field in securing structural funds for various projects—the exposure and the potential impact of leaving the eu , in a 'no deal ' or in a 'deal ' scenario , is very , very different . but i do n't know if , huw , you want to talk any further . suzy davies am : maybe just to use the 'no deal ' scenario is probably the easiest , is n't it ? kirsty williams am : the 'no deal ' ? suzy davies am : well , yes , because that 's the worst-case scenario , so let 's look at that one . huw morris : as the cabinet secretary mentioned , the higher education brexit working group's been meeting since september 2016 and has been looking at that in general . more recently , when the prospect of no deal became talked about , officials have been visiting individual institutions to talk to them about their preparedness for that . as you 'll be aware , the funding for much of the activity is secured , we believe , even under a 'no deal ' scenario , until december 2020 ; that 's a letter we had from the chief secretary to the treasury . i think the research you 're referring to may be research that cardiff university has been doing with the bevan foundation and others . i know there 's a report due to be launched later today . we have been doing our own research and looking at the impact on he , fe and apprenticeship providers . suzy davies am : well , that 's really helpful because my understanding was that this cardiff university research had superseded all those nine sector analyses . huw morris : that may be true for the economy brief . certainly , there are published papers by max munday and a team at cardiff university on the impact of brexit on the welsh economy , but for he and fe and apprenticeship provision , it 's as the cabinet secretary outlined . suzy davies am : so , are there any formal risk assessments that are available for us to scrutinise , for example ? for he and fe for that matter . kirsty williams am : well , the higher education funding council for wales have been doing some specific work ; i ca n't comment on how wide they would want that to be shared . we have been doing some broad analysis , as i said , for the sector , looking at what we can do to mitigate the risk , bearing in mind that each institution is an autonomous institution , a principle that they guard really jealously , and rightly so . so , we have been , as huw said , because the prospect of a 'no deal ' has become , perhaps , more to the forefront , officers have been visiting each institution to try and make sure and to satisfy us , as people who fund part of their activity , that they have their own plans in place to deal with these scenarios . we continue to work alongside them to push the issues that we can help them with . so , for instance , we continue to work with officials in westminster around erasmus+ provision in a 'no deal ' scenario , what a uk stand-alone project would look like , the impacts of a 'no deal ' on horizon 2020 . so , we look at the broader picture and we are encouraging continually individual institutions to make sure that they themselves are looking at their specific needs within that . suzy davies am : well , if there is something that 's shareable , i 'm sure we 'd be very pleased to see it— kirsty williams am : anything that we 've got— suzy davies am : —particularly with fe , actually , because , of course , we have n't got a hefcw for fe ; you 're doing that regulation yourself . i 'd expect to see that type of work evidenced somewhere from within welsh government , and we would be able to see that then . eluned morgan am : so , if i could just make some points on fe . we 've been actively engaging with the fe sector . we 've spoken to every one of the colleges about how they see things developing . i think it 's quite a different response than what is going to be happening in he . suzy davies am : yes , because the student thing is n't such an issue , is it ? eluned morgan am : you 've got to remember that the fe colleges are much more anchored within their communities , they 're much more localised , and so , for example , the number of eu students in these colleges is significantly lower . the number of staff in these colleges—i think they 've analysed that there are only about 71 people . so , we 're keeping in touch with them and we 're letting them know what we are being told in terms of the home office settled status and what we can do to protect those 71 . but that's a much bigger issue , i think , for higher education . suzy davies am : what are they telling you about european social fund funding , though , because , as you say , they 're locally anchored—the impact on fe of esf funding is probably more significant than the issues we 're talking about with higher education . how are you finding this out ? is this through one-to-one conversations ? eluned morgan am : we are engaging with them all , and , obviously , we 're engaging with colegaucymru , who 've done their own analysis , and what we found , in particular , is that the real problems are probably in relation to esf funding and apprenticeships . but what you 've got to remember is that that link between apprenticeships and the local work community is absolutely crucial . so , if— suzy davies am : yes , that 's why i asked . eluned morgan am : —the economy nosedives , or if there 's an issue that we see—just the dislocation of companies in those areas as a result of brexit—then that will inevitably have an impact on the number of apprenticeships that will be on offer . so , it 's those kinds of things , but at the moment i think it 's worth pointing out that about £15 million a year goes into the fe sector just in relation to apprenticeships . suzy davies am : can i just come back finally on that , before handing over ? in both your areas of responsibility , there 's going to be an impact on welsh government in how it responds to that , as well . can you tell me a little bit about the european transition team , which i think is about building resilience within the welsh government to deal with the impacts of brexit ? is that a formal arrangement you have with officials ? i do n't really know much about this team , but it seems to meet fortnightly to get welsh government ready for brexit , so could you just give us some clues on this ? marie knox : yes , in terms of the european transition team , that 's the central co-ordinating group that pulls together all the leads in each department who are pulling together the work on european transition . so , i attend that group in relation to higher education and further education , and , obviously , other representatives in terms of agriculture , transport , the economy , et cetera . suzy davies am : it 's great that you 're on that group , but what does it actually do ? that 's the bit i was n't sure about . marie knox : i guess it provides the governance structure for the welsh government as a whole in relation to european transition . so , individual departments do their own work , and the european transition team provides the governance structure , and , also , they lead on the discussions with the department for exiting the european union , no . 10 , the joint ministerial committee—those kinds of ministerial arrangements . suzy davies am : thank you . i 've had enough time , i think . llyr gruffydd am : i 'll ask my questions in welsh , if i may . this discussion between hefcw and higher education , these challenges in terms of how ready they are for the changes to come , and the work that the government is doing with fe , i suspect , is happening at an organisational level . so , i just want to hear a little about where the student voice comes into that discussion and where the engagement happens in terms of the students . kirsty williams am : so , we have a close working relationship with the national union of students . i meet with them regularly , and officials are in constant touch with the student voice . they have been very clear , and i think there is a huge amount of consensus between the welsh government , what the universities are asking for and what the students are asking for . you 'll have seen , only earlier this week , the very powerful campaign by nus wales about the importance of erasmus+ arrangements . there is a huge amount to be gained for welsh students and young people participating in the erasmus programme . many of us , i know , have had the opportunity to study abroad as part of our own studies , and there 's a lot to be gained from it . we 've been very clear from the outset , as have the sector and the student voice , about the importance of participation in that scheme . nus are also very concerned that there should be no negative impact on the quality of faculty . our he institutions , to a greater extent than fe , have faculty staff from the eu—it runs at about 11 per cent . that adds great diversity and strength to the quality of teaching within our institutions . clearly , that is a concern for students . they want to have the best teachers , they want access to the best learning opportunities , and we 've been very clear about the importance of providing security and stability for those staff , making sure we send very clear messages that they 're very welcome and we value their contribution . nus , again , also value the diversity in the student population . again , as far as we 've been able to , we 've been able to give messages about the security of funding for european students for the next academic year . i wish i could go further , but that 's out of my hands . we 're working to the limits of what i feel comfortable in being able to guarantee without further guarantees from westminster . so , we 've been working closely with the student voice , and i think , llyr , what 's very clear is there is a consensus about what is important across the government , the institutions and student voice . so , that is making sure we send very clear messages about wales 's institutions being open for business and that we welcome both eu and international students , that we value the contribution of faculty , and that we want to be able to continue in horizon 2020 . that 's especially important if we 're looking at attracting postgraduate work and postgraduate students into our system , as well as erasmus+ . the issue of post-study work visas , again , is very important . as i said , there 's a consensus , i think , between the government , the institutions and the students about what we need the uk government to achieve for us . lynne neagle am : before we move on to student recruitment , it 's increasingly the view of many experts that we 're heading for a 'no deal ' brexit . can i ask both of you what specific plans you 've put in place in the event of such a 'no deal ' brexit happening and us crashing out next spring ? eluned morgan am : well , i think it 's really difficult for us to prepare for a 'no deal ' brexit , but obviously we need to think through very carefully what that might look like , and i think that scenario planning is starting to happen . i think it 's very different , again , for fe compared to he . so , in relation to fe , what we do have is funding—esf funding—which the uk government has said that they will underwrite until 2020 . so , in march next year , if there is no deal , the immediate impact on fe is unlikely to hit in the way that we may have feared . the problem then becomes : what exactly is the deal with the eu in future , because we will have some kind of relationship , and what that impact will be on the broader economy and our ability to work with companies locally , and industries , to provide that link between training needs ? so , the colleges , basically , are providing the training for lots of the apprenticeships , and so if the number of companies reduces , then that is likely to have an impact . so , there are specific sectors that we are more concerned about than others . farming is obviously one that we are concerned about , because that could have a difference in terms of day one of no deal . if your markets are not there , that could be quite an immediate impact . health and social care—obviously , we are concerned that there are a number of people who work in that sector who are eu citizens . what is the impact ? are they going to feel unwelcome ? are they likely , then , to return home ? where will that skills gap , therefore , be ? so , that 's a problem for us . construction is already an issue for us in terms of skills shortages . so , one of the things we 're doing is we 've developed these regional skills partnerships where we ask local employers , 'what is it that you need in terms of skills development ? ' and we are now asking further education colleges to respond to that need . so , rather than them just getting people through the college system , who are easy to get in because they 're doing courses that they 're excited about , let 's try and encourage them to do courses where we know there are skills shortages . so , that is a new structure that we 've developed that is already having an impact ; there 's a £10 million project there . so , we 're already putting things in place for those situations . in manufacturing , obviously , if there 's no deal , the rules of origin , that could have an immediate impact . just-in-time—we could have real problems in terms of dislocation there ; and hospitality and tourism . so , those are the sectors we have most concerns about , and all of them have very strong links to the fe sector . kirsty williams am : from the he perspective , from a point of principle , we just have to keep working towards some kind of deal . although the prospect of no deal , maybe , has risen up the agenda , we have got to be consistent in our messages to the westminster government : we need a deal . wales can not afford to crash out of the eu without a deal . if that worst-case scenario was to happen , because of the underwrite guarantee , actually , for european regional development fund and european social fund programmes in the he sector , it would be business as usual . and because of the current underwrite guarantee , the forthcoming bids for erasmus and horizon 2020 would be covered , but they would be the last applications that could be made . you 'll be aware that there are some proposals for an extension to that guarantee , but from my understanding and our understanding of it , that would only give us third-country status for horizon 2020 and erasmus . what that does mean is that we would have limited access to the horizon 2020 programme , and if you look at the activity that is currently being undertaken by the welsh he sector under that programme , that would mean that we 'd probably lose about 50 per cent of that work , because that 's the split between the bits we would still be able to access and what we are currently accessing . as i 've already said , we have made a guarantee for eu student support for the next academic year , but , without clarity from the treasury , i do n't think it would be prudent of me to commit welsh government to anything further than that . so , we continue to push the message that a 'no deal ' would be catastrophic . what can we do ? you 'll be aware that we have been working with universities wales to access resources under the european transition fund , under the global wales programme , to look to boost international marketing of the he sector and to talk about the strengths that we have in the sector . and we continue to look at other opportunities within the eu transition pot of money to assist the universities and the fe sector in that regard . we also continue to look to respond to the reid review proposals , about how we can beef up our own research and continue to engage with uk research and innovation to make sure that , with any research money that comes out of that negotiation , wales is in a competitive position to be able to bid successfully for that . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 're going to move on , then , to talk about student recruitment . i 'm going to , because we 've got a lot of questions , appeal for brief questions and answers that are as concise as possible , please . hefin . hefin david am : how does the welsh government account for the fact that eu student applications in wales this year—that wales is the only country in the uk to have seen a significant drop ? kirsty williams am : okay , well , i think the first thing to remember is that we will not get a full picture of student recruitment until , first of all , november and then the true picture , because some institutions , as you would know , have two admissions dates—we wo n't get the full picture until the spring . i think it was inevitable , given the change in government policy with regard to student support , which had previously allowed european students to benefit from a tuition fee grant , and given the fact that that option is no longer available to them , that that has had an impact on eu recruitment , and there 's no point trying to hide from that . hefin david am : so , together with leaving the eu , that 's a double-whammy effect that 's hitting wales harder than the rest of the uk . kirsty williams am : it just puts us in the same position as eu students applying to england , but it was inevitable . this was looked at by diamond . it was anticipated that this could be a consequence of the change in policy , and i think we see that reflected in the initial figure , although , as i said , we wo n't get the true picture until the first census in november , and then , ultimately , the final picture in the spring . hefin david am : how concerned are you by that ? kirsty williams am : clearly , we want our universities to be able to attract students from both the eu and from around the world . the fact that the tuition fee grant arrangements may have had an impact on european union students at this stage does not preclude the fact that wales , up until now , has been successful in recruiting international students . so , the change in the fee regime should not be a barrier to the recruitment of international students , because , actually , international students outside of the eu make up a bigger proportion of students not from the uk who come to our institutions . hefin david am : that 's a fair point , but it 's unfortunate timing , though , is n't it ? kirsty williams am : i think , from a public policy point of view and moving towards a sustainable way of funding our he sector , then both my priority and , i would say , the priority of the institutions was to see the implementation of diamond , which is what we have done . hefin david am : okay , that 's fine . what about the fact that we 've got a relatively imbalanced higher education profile compared to other countries of the uk with regard to high , medium and low-tariff universities ? we 've got one high-tariff university , and they 're the ones that tend to show the growth in recruitment of eu students . are you concerned about that balance of profile in the he sector ? kirsty williams am : as i said in answer to your question earlier , there is a difference reflected in the exposure of institutions to eu and international students . i would argue that it 's not necessarily the case that institutions that are not high-tariff are not able to do very well in this sector . if you look , for instance , at swansea university—if you look at the work swansea university has done , that shows you what is possible . hefin david am : what is swansea 's success , then ? what can we learn from swansea ? kirsty williams am : what i think is important—and this is not about any one institution—what i think is really important is that we look to— . and i ca n't force institutions to do this . it 's a combination , i believe , for all universities , of getting their offer right—so , having a curriculum at their institution that is attractive and offers courses that people want to study . it 's about that curriculum being delivered in an excellent fashion , so high quality ratings for teaching , as well as having an infrastructure that is attractive to students . so , it 's all about getting the offer right and providing what students , both domestically and internationally , want . hefin david am : but the evidence would therefore suggest that that model of success that you 've just outlined is happening in swansea but it is n't happening in other institutions , and they 're seeing a drop . kirsty williams am : well , as i said , i think what we can see from cardiff , swansea and others is that it is possible to do very well in the sector . hefin david am : so , cardiff , swansea and bangor—but the others , not . kirsty williams am : as i said , what we can see is that , if you get the offer right , i think we have something very special that the he sector can market itself on . lynne neagle am : llyr , you 've got a supplementary . llyr gruffydd am : just coming back to the drop in eu students , you mentioned that one of the reasons probably is the change in the funding that 's available to students coming here . so , does that suggest that , under the current regime , wales was punching above its weight in terms of attracting students and we 've lost that advantage ? i know we 're gaining in other ways in introducing the new system , but really we 're not much different to england in terms of fees now , so why would they come to wales as opposed to going anywhere else ? kirsty williams am : i think you 're right ; there was an added incentive , potentially , to come to a welsh institution because of the availability of the tuition fee grant . that advantage is no longer there , which is why we need to work alongside the sector , as we 're doing with the global wales programme , to increase their ability to market he in the round across the world . i think we 've got a strong offer that we can speak to people about . i 'm very proud of what our institutions can deliver for people . it 's a fantastic , warm environment to come and study in , at great institutions . there 's something for everybody , whether you want to be in a city like cardiff or whether you want a coastal experience in a small town like aber . so , we 've got a lot to offer and that 's why it 's really important that , although we have seen a change in the tuition fees , which may have an impact , we are investing with universities , for instance , in the global wales programme . lynne neagle am : in terms of the drop that we 've seen in wales , which is differential amongst institutions , will you be taking any specific action to try and prevent brexit exacerbating that ? kirsty williams am : we are working with hefcw and individual institutions , as i said , to test their preparedness . we ca n't tell them what to do in that sense , but we can , because of our governance arrangements and hefcw 's monitoring arrangements , continue to test with them . i meet regularly with vice-chancellors and separately with the chairs of the institutions and separately again with hefcw representatives , and the sustainability of the sector and recruitment issues is always something that is on the agenda . lynne neagle am : thank you . julie . julie morgan am : the additional £6.4 million that went to hefcw in the 2017-18 year , which i think you say is partly because of brexit and partly because of demographic and recruitment challenges , what do you expect to see as a result of that spending ? kirsty williams am : that funding was allocated , as i said , to enable hefcw to deal with any short-term implications arising out of demographic changes , because we 've seen a drop in the number of 18-year-olds , and the initial implications of eu transition . it was allocated as part of hefcw 's overall grant in aid , and therefore the council was given discretion as to how it was to be apportioned to the sector . the money was brought forward a year , because , in conversations with hefcw and the institutions , they felt that that money would be more useful earlier on . so , it was money that was brought forward into the allocation for 2017-18 , as opposed to 2018-19 , because they wanted to have that resource earlier rather than later . with regard to additional resources , you 'll be aware that we have made an additional resource of £5 million available to mitigate the freeze in tuition fees , and £5 million has been made available to hefcw to kick-start the work on postgraduate support until we 're in a position to fully implement diamond at the postgraduate level . julie morgan am : you say that the money is used at the discretion of the universities . so , you do n't have an analysis of how that was spent . kirsty williams am : the financial allocation , as i said , was agreed with the funding council and it was there to help universities with any cash flow issues , but if you 'd like further details i can provide those as much as i 'm able . julie morgan am : i think it would be interesting if we know what the money was spent on and , of course , that money is now not available for the next financial year , so there 's no way of carrying on what they were doing with it , presumably . kirsty williams am : well , as i said , it was part of the overall allocation to hefcw . with specific regard to dealing with the impact of brexit , you 'll be aware that we have reached an agreement in principle on the funding of £3.5 million to the global wales initiative . this was an application that came in from universities wales looking at specifically targeting and beefing up international work and international recruitment work to support them at this time , and we 're currently working with universities wales on the exact details and outcomes they would expect from that investment . julie morgan am : and do you have any estimate of how many students you hope to attract by that ? kirsty williams am : that is subject to continuing negotiations with universities wales before we let any contracts with them . what 's important is that that work is based on research that has been done by universities wales to look at the optimum markets that we should be targeting , specifically the united states of america and vietnam . julie morgan am : and will this money be used equally between all the universities ? kirsty williams am : we expect that all institutions—should they have a desire to participate—will be able to be assisted , as well as the overall global branding from universities wales and the new study in wales initiative . julie morgan am : thank you . i think we 've covered the eu student fees , have n't we ? lynne neagle am : okay . do you want to ask question 12 ? julie morgan am : has the welsh government explored the possibility of looking at different immigration rules for international and eu students who may wish to study here ? kirsty williams am : okay . well , with regard to immigration , clearly , this is something , at the moment , that is out of our hands , and i have to say , it has n't got off to a great start when initially the post-study work visas were issued just for a number of institutions in the south-east of england , with no consultation with us and i do n't believe with the scottish government either . so , we have campaigned , pushed , cajoled , lobbied , and i was very glad that in december last year , the home office did then make that scheme available to cardiff and to trinity saint david . we continue to press the point that we do not believe that , first of all , international students should be included in any immigration targets . i think all the evidence suggests that the british public do n't regard international students as immigrants , and therefore we do need to make sure that they are taken out of the targets and we can continue to press that message with the uk government . at the moment , you 'll be aware that welsh government has looked at a specific piece of work on whether there was any scope for specific immigration policy for wales , although i must say that was mostly in the field of actually the workforce rather than students . you 'll be aware that this week the government 's migration advisory committee—there are so many committees these days—have said that they do n't believe that there is a case for a separate provision for eu students , as opposed to international students . but we want an immigration system that makes it as easy as possible for those students who want to benefit from education in wales , and indeed the uk , to be able to do so . lynne neagle am : thank you . llyr . llyr gruffydd am : so , what are we doing from now on in then ? are we just waiting to see or are we continuing to push ? kirsty williams am : no—gosh—llyr , we continue to push the case at the official level , and at the moment , i 'm trying to convene a quadrilateral , if it can be quadrilateral in the sense that northern ireland are n't up and running—but certainly with officials from northern ireland . we 're trying to arrange another quadrilateral between myself , the he minister for england and the new he minister for scotland . if i can speak candidly , i do n't believe that there 's any difference between our view , with regard to the status of international students , and the views of english ministers within the department in england . it is convincing the home office of that case . so , i do n't think we need to persuade sam gyimah about the importance of this . jo johnson got , i think the current minister gets it—it 's a question of whether we can persuade the home office of that particular case . lynne neagle am : okay . thank you . the next questions are from john griffiths . john griffiths am : i have some questions on the sustainability of higher and further education . firstly , with regard to higher education , we heard that , even without brexit , higher education is in managed deficit , whilst the funding announcements from diamond and reid are awaited . so , is that a concern to welsh government , and could welsh government take away that uncertainty by outlining a clear funding commitment to the diamond and reid reviews ? kirsty williams am : welsh government is fully committed , john , to implementing the diamond review proposals . it 's a commitment that was an element of the agreement between myself and the first minister that brought me into the administration , and we have been very clear with hefcw about our expectations and what the implementation of diamond will mean for grant going to hefcw . and we 've shared those figures with them . with regard to reid , we continue within government to discuss how we can implement the recommendations of reid , but one of the whole principles behind diamond was to move us to a more sustainable funding settlement for the he sector in the round , that is fair to students , encourages those with the ability to partake in higher education to do so , especially from those from a poorer background , as well as being able to provide our institutions with the resources that they need . john griffiths am : so , you do n't accept , then , that there has n't been a clear funding commitment from welsh government to those reviews—the diamond and reid reviews ? kirsty williams am : with regard to diamond , i would absolutely refute that . we have been very clear and we have shown hefcw our analysis of the figures going forward in relation to what is sometimes called within the sector the 'diamond dividend ' , although the diamond dividend is never as big as people imagine the diamond dividend to be . but we've been absolutely clear with hefcw and the sector on what that will mean . now , with regard to reid , those are ongoing discussions that form part of the normal budgetary process within the government , but i think we have been as clear as we can be with regard to diamond . john griffiths am : okay . the second question , really , is about he and fe and it 's about european funding , which , of course , has been and is on a multi-year basis , which gives , i think , a lot of security and comfort to the sectors , knowing what the budgets will be over a period of time . so , moving from that to a yearly budgeting situation would be worrying . so , would you commit to introducing multi-year funding settlements for he , and indeed for fe , moving forward beyond brexit ? eluned morgan am : shall i take this and give you a little bit of a break ? she 's not very well . i think the multi-annual nature of the european funding programmes has been very , very useful . people can plan , you can get staffing in place , you can have really strategic aims and i think that 's really useful for the institutions involved . of course , what we do n't have is multi-annual budgeting from the uk government . so , whilst i think we would , in an ideal world , like to see a better view of what 's coming our way , it 's extremely difficult for us to be able to offer that without having that multi-annual funding commitment from the uk government . so , i think that will be a major , major loss for the institutions concerned . of course , it 's not just about esf and apprenticeships—it 's also about erdf funding . so , you must n't forget that , actually , there 's been a lot of erdf funding that 's gone into these institutions . swansea university , you 'll be aware , has been practically rebuilt with erdf . also , fe colleges—we 've got coleg y cymoedd , the college in blaenau gwent . these have been built , largely , with european funding . it 's because of the multi-annual nature of the fact that we 've been able to prepare for them that they have been able to progress . so , that will be a huge loss , but i think it 's really important that we do n't forget the erdf aspect in addition to the esf impact that there will be on these institutions . john griffiths am : okay . as far as further education is concerned , in your paper you state that it 's a priority to support the fe sector to maintain all the learning opportunities that currently take place under european union funding . so , would you be able to give the committee an idea of the level of resource you would estimate that the sector requires to achieve that priority , and— ? i 'll stop there for the moment . eluned morgan am : i think it is important . what we 've said is that we want to maintain that range of learning opportunities that is provided by eu funding . i think we 've got to be clear that we are not working to this scenario . i think we 've got to— . the uk government have made us some promises and they 've made some commitments , and we need to hold them to that , and so let 's keep the pressure on . the moment we start saying , 'no , it 's all going to be okay , we 'll sort ourselves out'—i think that would be a huge mistake . we have been promised that we will not lose a penny as a result of brexit , and we need to make sure that we keep them to that commitment . i think it was quite interesting to hear what philip hammond said yesterday when he was in wales , saying that the money that we will receive will depend on the future shape of the economy , which implies that he has no idea what 's going to happen there , and that that shared prosperity fund will be designed around the deal . well , that 's really not what we 're interested in . we were made some promises , and we need them to commit to those promises . i think we have some real concerns about the shared prosperity fund not really following through on the commitments that were made during the brexit referendum . but , in terms of the replacements , we 'd be looking at about £15 million a year , and that would be a huge impact for us , but we 're not looking at that—i do n't think we should be—because they made some promises . john griffiths am : so , could you say that , if they keep their promises , then at least that level of funding would be maintained ? eluned morgan am : i think that would be a minimum , but that 's just one aspect of it . that 's not including the whole workplace learning money on top of that . lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy , you had a supplementary . suzy davies am : yes , just very quickly on the multi-annual point , obviously i recognise that we 're talking about six or seven-year cycles with europe , and i completely take the point that you do n't really know from year to year what your budget 's going to be , but welsh government does make multi-annual commitments . i think you did it yesterday , actually—the capital commitment is over more than one year . how are you able to do that and yet not quite feel confident that you can do that with—well , both your sectors , really ? eluned morgan am : i think it 's probably easier to do with capital than it is with revenue , so that 's what would make the difference . but it's— . these institutions are interested in revenue , because that 's what supports the staff . the one thing we all know is that employment opportunities today—the transitional nature of employment and the fact that people are not getting the kind of contracts that we 'd like them to get—that makes their lives very precarious and they 're less likely , then , to be committed to those institutions . i think it 's a really , really concerning thing , because what makes these institutions work well is their staff , so that makes life very , very difficult without that multi-annual commitment . suzy davies am : they also have to raise some of their own money as well—we must n't forget that . eluned morgan am : no , i think that 's right , and i think that there 's more that these institutions can do in terms of their own funding and being more responsive to employers and the need for skills in their areas . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : so , given the precarious state of planning for the finances , are you considering letting universities charge eu students international fees ? kirsty williams am : we do n't regulate the ability for universities to set fees for international students . they would be in a position to— [ inaudible . ] they are in a position to set international fees at a rate that , i guess , they feel is appropriate for the provision that they give to those students . lynne neagle am : okay , right . we 'll move on , then , to questions from llyr . llyr gruffydd am : thank you . i just wanted to pick up on the funding of apprenticeships and the long-term funding , because the esf—the commitments take us to 2023 , which takes us beyond any transition period . so , i just want to hear from you that there are assurances that the apprenticeship programme can be delivered as a whole , come what may . eluned morgan am : well , we 're fine until 2020 , because we 've had that guarantee from the government . the issue for us is the n+2 that we would have if we do have some kind of transition deal or an agreement with the eu . so , there is a risk and there is concern , beyond 2020 , that that would create problems if they do n't agree to fund that , which is the expectation that we have . llyr gruffydd am : but it is a prospect that this would n't be achieved as you foresee . eluned morgan am : well , we do hope , because we 've had the pledges and commitments from the government , that they will respect what we expected and what was expected by these institutions that have had the commitment of the funding . llyr gruffydd am : so , to what extent does that undermine the current work ? because institutions want to enter into agreements with providers and so on . businesses want to know , if they 're starting on some sort of journey , that they are going to get to the end of it some years down the line . that must be undermining a lot of the work that 's going on now . eluned morgan am : well , as i said , because the guarantee is there until 2020 , i think that , for now , people are willing to go into those agreements , and i hope that we 'll have a better outlook by november of the direction we 're moving in . but i do n't think it 's had an impact . you have to remember that the number of apprenticeships in wales is rising , while they 've collapsed entirely in england . so , it is important that we do continue , and it 's important that we do n't create an atmosphere here that 's going to undermine the confidence of our employers in committing to training in the workplace . llyr gruffydd am : are you confident that the government will achieve its targets in this context ? eluned morgan am : yes . we 're on target to reach 100,000 apprenticeships . i think we 're slightly ahead of that target , i 'm pleased to say . so , of course , our hope is to do that . but let 's be clear : if there is a 'no deal ' scenario , that will have an impact on the economy , and who knows what will happen then to some of these companies that are reliant on the eu . llyr gruffydd am : talking about the impact on the wider economy , on the point you made earlier that it 's not just the direct effect on these institutions , but also on the businesses that they engage with , that is a concern in this context , that means , of course , that there is a lot of pressure in this context on the work that other departments in the government are doing , because perhaps they are the ones dealing with some of this . so , could you tell us a little bit about how you 're working with ministers and cabinet secretaries and other departments within the government to safeguard these interests ? eluned morgan am : so , as part of the employability programme , i have started going round every member of the cabinet to ask what the impact will be on them—for example , in health , and , certainly , the economy , but here are many other areas . what 's important for us is that we do collaborate and we do get this analysis , but we hope to do that on the ground through the regional skills partnerships . that 's our way of ensuring that we can have an understanding , on the ground , of what 's needed by employers . and so ensuring that people feed into that and that we respond to those requirements—that 's where we 're focusing our work . so , we 're asking , for example , health boards to ensure that they feed into the regional skills partnerships . llyr gruffydd am : is there a danger that we 're a little bit behind in this process ? because brexit could be upon us in no time at all , and , of course , this work is still ongoing . eluned morgan am : well , i have been pushing and ensuring that in the direct areas facing the greatest risk , and agriculture 's one of those , of course— . we have been pushing to see what we can do further , so , for example , i 'm in the process of developing a policy on rural skills at present because i do think it 's important that we do focus on those sectors that are likely to suffer the worst impact if the worst does happen . so , those preparations are in place as far as they can be , but , of course , it 's very difficult without knowing to what extent it 's going to impact on us . llyr gruffydd am : and each sector 's running on its own timescale , i would presume . but , as you 've mentioned rural skills , when do you foresee that that work will appear , and when will plans or schemes or whatever you 're intending to put in place see the light of day ? eluned morgan am : well , we hope during this term that that will be published or announced . so , certainly , it is something that we have been discussing with people in rural areas directly , with the colleges , to see what the provision is there and to what extent we need to expand that , and to what extent we will need to change and move really quickly if there is no deal . that 's something that i think we have to learn and we need to convince the fe sector about in terms of moving more quickly and to be more responsive to the demand that there is in the workplace . llyr gruffydd am : yes , because there is the dilemma you touched on earlier about providing the skills that are required for the economy and providing the courses that are easy to fill . that is a live discussion across fe and he , but you 're confident that that discussion is taking place in a constructive and positive way and moving in the right direction . eluned morgan am : well , it 's helped that we 've put £10 million on the table , because they do understand now that we are serious about our aim of ensuring that they do respond to what employers are asking for . so that has helped a lot in terms of focus and , of course , we 're in the middle of a review now as well in terms of how we fund fe , and that will certainly be a part of that . llyr gruffydd am : okay , thanks . lynne neagle am : thank you . can i just go back— ? kirsty williams am : sorry , chair , could i just clarify something ? the last question you asked me about— lynne neagle am : i was just going to go back to that , yes . kirsty williams am : —fees— . sorry . of course , that is in the context of a 'no deal ' scenario . there could be a scenario where there are reciprocal arrangements , so , if a deal was reached with the european union that established the principle of reciprocal arrangements , then , obviously , the ability of the he institutions to charge international fees would be curtailed . i just want to make that clear . lynne neagle am : if there 's not that agreement— kirsty williams am : if there 's no deal— lynne neagle am : —then it will be open to universities to charge market-driven , international rates . kirsty williams am : yes , that 's right . sorry , i just wanted to clarify . i should have made it very clear that the answer i gave was in the context of no deal , which is what we seem to be talking about mostly this morning , but if there was a deal to have reciprocal arrangements , then that ability , obviously , would be curtailed . </s>
<s> summarize the political background and the aim of the group . </s> lynne neagle am : good morning , everyone , and welcome to the children , young people and education committee . we 've received apologies for absence from janet finch-saunders . i 'd like to take this opportunity to welcome suzy davies to the committee , and to thank mark reckless and darren millar , who have left us , for their service and hard work as members of the committee . can i ask whether there are any declarations of interest , please ? no . okay . we will move on then to our evidence session on our inquiry into the impact of brexit on higher and further education . i 'm very pleased to welcome kirsty williams , cabinet secretary for education , and eluned morgan am , minister for welsh language and lifelong learning . can i just ask you to introduce your officials for the record , please ? kirsty williams am : bore da , lynne , and thank you for the invitation to join you . eluned and i are joined this morning by huw morris , who 's the group director at shell—skills , higher education and lifelong learning—and marie knox , who is deputy director , overseeing european transition . lynne neagle am : okay , thank you very much , and thank you for coming . we 'll go straight into questions , then , and the first questions are from suzy davies . suzy davies am : thank you . i 'd like to ask you both , if that 's okay , a little bit about preparedness . but if i could start with higher education , i understand that—i do n't know , it must be about 18 months ago now—ken skates told another committee in this place that there had been nine sector analyses done . presumably , one of those was he , because of the—well , welsh government had a presence , and still does , in brussels , related to higher education . apparently , those have now been superseded by work that 's been done by cardiff university . i do n't know if you 've got any comments on that research , or whether it 's been brought to your attention yet . kirsty williams am : well , suzy , following the vote , i was very keen that we work very closely with colleagues in higher education and further education , to get an understanding from on the ground about the potential impact . so , in terms of preparedness , we started that group in the september , and that work from that group , which includes both he and fe , has been instrumental in helping the government form its views , which were articulated in the government 's white paper , 'securing wales ' future ' . there has been ongoing work being done—as the debate in london and europe becomes a little bit more clear , then it becomes a little less clear , and then a little bit more clear , but , bearing in mind the difficulties of working in an ever-changing field , we have been refining those approaches . each institution has been looking at their own institution , because , as you can imagine , although we have an overview of the sector , the challenges are very different for individual institutions—so their exposure , for instance , to the number of european union students that they have at their college , or the work that they might be doing with horizon 2020 , or their success—and there has been considerable success in the he field in securing structural funds for various projects—the exposure and the potential impact of leaving the eu , in a 'no deal ' or in a 'deal ' scenario , is very , very different . but i do n't know if , huw , you want to talk any further . suzy davies am : maybe just to use the 'no deal ' scenario is probably the easiest , is n't it ? kirsty williams am : the 'no deal ' ? suzy davies am : well , yes , because that 's the worst-case scenario , so let 's look at that one . huw morris : as the cabinet secretary mentioned , the higher education brexit working group's been meeting since september 2016 and has been looking at that in general . more recently , when the prospect of no deal became talked about , officials have been visiting individual institutions to talk to them about their preparedness for that . as you 'll be aware , the funding for much of the activity is secured , we believe , even under a 'no deal ' scenario , until december 2020 ; that 's a letter we had from the chief secretary to the treasury . i think the research you 're referring to may be research that cardiff university has been doing with the bevan foundation and others . i know there 's a report due to be launched later today . we have been doing our own research and looking at the impact on he , fe and apprenticeship providers . suzy davies am : well , that 's really helpful because my understanding was that this cardiff university research had superseded all those nine sector analyses . huw morris : that may be true for the economy brief . certainly , there are published papers by max munday and a team at cardiff university on the impact of brexit on the welsh economy , but for he and fe and apprenticeship provision , it 's as the cabinet secretary outlined . suzy davies am : so , are there any formal risk assessments that are available for us to scrutinise , for example ? for he and fe for that matter . kirsty williams am : well , the higher education funding council for wales have been doing some specific work ; i ca n't comment on how wide they would want that to be shared . we have been doing some broad analysis , as i said , for the sector , looking at what we can do to mitigate the risk , bearing in mind that each institution is an autonomous institution , a principle that they guard really jealously , and rightly so . so , we have been , as huw said , because the prospect of a 'no deal ' has become , perhaps , more to the forefront , officers have been visiting each institution to try and make sure and to satisfy us , as people who fund part of their activity , that they have their own plans in place to deal with these scenarios . we continue to work alongside them to push the issues that we can help them with . so , for instance , we continue to work with officials in westminster around erasmus+ provision in a 'no deal ' scenario , what a uk stand-alone project would look like , the impacts of a 'no deal ' on horizon 2020 . so , we look at the broader picture and we are encouraging continually individual institutions to make sure that they themselves are looking at their specific needs within that . suzy davies am : well , if there is something that 's shareable , i 'm sure we 'd be very pleased to see it— kirsty williams am : anything that we 've got— suzy davies am : —particularly with fe , actually , because , of course , we have n't got a hefcw for fe ; you 're doing that regulation yourself . i 'd expect to see that type of work evidenced somewhere from within welsh government , and we would be able to see that then . eluned morgan am : so , if i could just make some points on fe . we 've been actively engaging with the fe sector . we 've spoken to every one of the colleges about how they see things developing . i think it 's quite a different response than what is going to be happening in he . suzy davies am : yes , because the student thing is n't such an issue , is it ? eluned morgan am : you 've got to remember that the fe colleges are much more anchored within their communities , they 're much more localised , and so , for example , the number of eu students in these colleges is significantly lower . the number of staff in these colleges—i think they 've analysed that there are only about 71 people . so , we 're keeping in touch with them and we 're letting them know what we are being told in terms of the home office settled status and what we can do to protect those 71 . but that's a much bigger issue , i think , for higher education . suzy davies am : what are they telling you about european social fund funding , though , because , as you say , they 're locally anchored—the impact on fe of esf funding is probably more significant than the issues we 're talking about with higher education . how are you finding this out ? is this through one-to-one conversations ? eluned morgan am : we are engaging with them all , and , obviously , we 're engaging with colegaucymru , who 've done their own analysis , and what we found , in particular , is that the real problems are probably in relation to esf funding and apprenticeships . but what you 've got to remember is that that link between apprenticeships and the local work community is absolutely crucial . so , if— suzy davies am : yes , that 's why i asked . eluned morgan am : —the economy nosedives , or if there 's an issue that we see—just the dislocation of companies in those areas as a result of brexit—then that will inevitably have an impact on the number of apprenticeships that will be on offer . so , it 's those kinds of things , but at the moment i think it 's worth pointing out that about £15 million a year goes into the fe sector just in relation to apprenticeships . suzy davies am : can i just come back finally on that , before handing over ? in both your areas of responsibility , there 's going to be an impact on welsh government in how it responds to that , as well . can you tell me a little bit about the european transition team , which i think is about building resilience within the welsh government to deal with the impacts of brexit ? is that a formal arrangement you have with officials ? i do n't really know much about this team , but it seems to meet fortnightly to get welsh government ready for brexit , so could you just give us some clues on this ? marie knox : yes , in terms of the european transition team , that 's the central co-ordinating group that pulls together all the leads in each department who are pulling together the work on european transition . so , i attend that group in relation to higher education and further education , and , obviously , other representatives in terms of agriculture , transport , the economy , et cetera . suzy davies am : it 's great that you 're on that group , but what does it actually do ? that 's the bit i was n't sure about . marie knox : i guess it provides the governance structure for the welsh government as a whole in relation to european transition . so , individual departments do their own work , and the european transition team provides the governance structure , and , also , they lead on the discussions with the department for exiting the european union , no . 10 , the joint ministerial committee—those kinds of ministerial arrangements . </s>
<s> what did huw morris think of the `` no deal '' scenario when talking about the political background and the aim of the group ? </s> suzy davies am : thank you . i 'd like to ask you both , if that 's okay , a little bit about preparedness . but if i could start with higher education , i understand that—i do n't know , it must be about 18 months ago now—ken skates told another committee in this place that there had been nine sector analyses done . presumably , one of those was he , because of the—well , welsh government had a presence , and still does , in brussels , related to higher education . apparently , those have now been superseded by work that 's been done by cardiff university . i do n't know if you 've got any comments on that research , or whether it 's been brought to your attention yet . kirsty williams am : well , suzy , following the vote , i was very keen that we work very closely with colleagues in higher education and further education , to get an understanding from on the ground about the potential impact . so , in terms of preparedness , we started that group in the september , and that work from that group , which includes both he and fe , has been instrumental in helping the government form its views , which were articulated in the government 's white paper , 'securing wales ' future ' . there has been ongoing work being done—as the debate in london and europe becomes a little bit more clear , then it becomes a little less clear , and then a little bit more clear , but , bearing in mind the difficulties of working in an ever-changing field , we have been refining those approaches . each institution has been looking at their own institution , because , as you can imagine , although we have an overview of the sector , the challenges are very different for individual institutions—so their exposure , for instance , to the number of european union students that they have at their college , or the work that they might be doing with horizon 2020 , or their success—and there has been considerable success in the he field in securing structural funds for various projects—the exposure and the potential impact of leaving the eu , in a 'no deal ' or in a 'deal ' scenario , is very , very different . but i do n't know if , huw , you want to talk any further . suzy davies am : maybe just to use the 'no deal ' scenario is probably the easiest , is n't it ? kirsty williams am : the 'no deal ' ? suzy davies am : well , yes , because that 's the worst-case scenario , so let 's look at that one . huw morris : as the cabinet secretary mentioned , the higher education brexit working group's been meeting since september 2016 and has been looking at that in general . more recently , when the prospect of no deal became talked about , officials have been visiting individual institutions to talk to them about their preparedness for that . as you 'll be aware , the funding for much of the activity is secured , we believe , even under a 'no deal ' scenario , until december 2020 ; that 's a letter we had from the chief secretary to the treasury . i think the research you 're referring to may be research that cardiff university has been doing with the bevan foundation and others . i know there 's a report due to be launched later today . we have been doing our own research and looking at the impact on he , fe and apprenticeship providers . suzy davies am : well , that 's really helpful because my understanding was that this cardiff university research had superseded all those nine sector analyses . </s>
<s> what did eluned morgan think of further education when talking about the political background and the aim of the group ? </s> eluned morgan am : so , if i could just make some points on fe . we 've been actively engaging with the fe sector . we 've spoken to every one of the colleges about how they see things developing . i think it 's quite a different response than what is going to be happening in he . suzy davies am : yes , because the student thing is n't such an issue , is it ? eluned morgan am : you 've got to remember that the fe colleges are much more anchored within their communities , they 're much more localised , and so , for example , the number of eu students in these colleges is significantly lower . the number of staff in these colleges—i think they 've analysed that there are only about 71 people . so , we 're keeping in touch with them and we 're letting them know what we are being told in terms of the home office settled status and what we can do to protect those 71 . but that's a much bigger issue , i think , for higher education . suzy davies am : what are they telling you about european social fund funding , though , because , as you say , they 're locally anchored—the impact on fe of esf funding is probably more significant than the issues we 're talking about with higher education . how are you finding this out ? is this through one-to-one conversations ? eluned morgan am : we are engaging with them all , and , obviously , we 're engaging with colegaucymru , who 've done their own analysis , and what we found , in particular , is that the real problems are probably in relation to esf funding and apprenticeships . but what you 've got to remember is that that link between apprenticeships and the local work community is absolutely crucial . so , if— suzy davies am : yes , that 's why i asked . </s>
<s> what did the group talk about the admission problems of wales universities and corresponding solutions ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay , thank you . we 're going to move on , then , to talk about student recruitment . i 'm going to , because we 've got a lot of questions , appeal for brief questions and answers that are as concise as possible , please . hefin . hefin david am : how does the welsh government account for the fact that eu student applications in wales this year—that wales is the only country in the uk to have seen a significant drop ? kirsty williams am : okay , well , i think the first thing to remember is that we will not get a full picture of student recruitment until , first of all , november and then the true picture , because some institutions , as you would know , have two admissions dates—we wo n't get the full picture until the spring . i think it was inevitable , given the change in government policy with regard to student support , which had previously allowed european students to benefit from a tuition fee grant , and given the fact that that option is no longer available to them , that that has had an impact on eu recruitment , and there 's no point trying to hide from that . hefin david am : so , together with leaving the eu , that 's a double-whammy effect that 's hitting wales harder than the rest of the uk . kirsty williams am : it just puts us in the same position as eu students applying to england , but it was inevitable . this was looked at by diamond . it was anticipated that this could be a consequence of the change in policy , and i think we see that reflected in the initial figure , although , as i said , we wo n't get the true picture until the first census in november , and then , ultimately , the final picture in the spring . hefin david am : how concerned are you by that ? kirsty williams am : clearly , we want our universities to be able to attract students from both the eu and from around the world . the fact that the tuition fee grant arrangements may have had an impact on european union students at this stage does not preclude the fact that wales , up until now , has been successful in recruiting international students . so , the change in the fee regime should not be a barrier to the recruitment of international students , because , actually , international students outside of the eu make up a bigger proportion of students not from the uk who come to our institutions . hefin david am : that 's a fair point , but it 's unfortunate timing , though , is n't it ? kirsty williams am : i think , from a public policy point of view and moving towards a sustainable way of funding our he sector , then both my priority and , i would say , the priority of the institutions was to see the implementation of diamond , which is what we have done . hefin david am : okay , that 's fine . what about the fact that we 've got a relatively imbalanced higher education profile compared to other countries of the uk with regard to high , medium and low-tariff universities ? we 've got one high-tariff university , and they 're the ones that tend to show the growth in recruitment of eu students . are you concerned about that balance of profile in the he sector ? kirsty williams am : as i said in answer to your question earlier , there is a difference reflected in the exposure of institutions to eu and international students . i would argue that it 's not necessarily the case that institutions that are not high-tariff are not able to do very well in this sector . if you look , for instance , at swansea university—if you look at the work swansea university has done , that shows you what is possible . hefin david am : what is swansea 's success , then ? what can we learn from swansea ? kirsty williams am : what i think is important—and this is not about any one institution—what i think is really important is that we look to— . and i ca n't force institutions to do this . it 's a combination , i believe , for all universities , of getting their offer right—so , having a curriculum at their institution that is attractive and offers courses that people want to study . it 's about that curriculum being delivered in an excellent fashion , so high quality ratings for teaching , as well as having an infrastructure that is attractive to students . so , it 's all about getting the offer right and providing what students , both domestically and internationally , want . hefin david am : but the evidence would therefore suggest that that model of success that you 've just outlined is happening in swansea but it is n't happening in other institutions , and they 're seeing a drop . kirsty williams am : well , as i said , i think what we can see from cardiff , swansea and others is that it is possible to do very well in the sector . hefin david am : so , cardiff , swansea and bangor—but the others , not . kirsty williams am : as i said , what we can see is that , if you get the offer right , i think we have something very special that the he sector can market itself on . lynne neagle am : llyr , you 've got a supplementary . llyr gruffydd am : just coming back to the drop in eu students , you mentioned that one of the reasons probably is the change in the funding that 's available to students coming here . so , does that suggest that , under the current regime , wales was punching above its weight in terms of attracting students and we 've lost that advantage ? i know we 're gaining in other ways in introducing the new system , but really we 're not much different to england in terms of fees now , so why would they come to wales as opposed to going anywhere else ? kirsty williams am : i think you 're right ; there was an added incentive , potentially , to come to a welsh institution because of the availability of the tuition fee grant . that advantage is no longer there , which is why we need to work alongside the sector , as we 're doing with the global wales programme , to increase their ability to market he in the round across the world . i think we 've got a strong offer that we can speak to people about . i 'm very proud of what our institutions can deliver for people . it 's a fantastic , warm environment to come and study in , at great institutions . there 's something for everybody , whether you want to be in a city like cardiff or whether you want a coastal experience in a small town like aber . so , we 've got a lot to offer and that 's why it 's really important that , although we have seen a change in the tuition fees , which may have an impact , we are investing with universities , for instance , in the global wales programme . lynne neagle am : in terms of the drop that we 've seen in wales , which is differential amongst institutions , will you be taking any specific action to try and prevent brexit exacerbating that ? kirsty williams am : we are working with hefcw and individual institutions , as i said , to test their preparedness . we ca n't tell them what to do in that sense , but we can , because of our governance arrangements and hefcw 's monitoring arrangements , continue to test with them . i meet regularly with vice-chancellors and separately with the chairs of the institutions and separately again with hefcw representatives , and the sustainability of the sector and recruitment issues is always something that is on the agenda . </s>
<s> why did kirsty williams disagree with hefin david when talking about the admission problems of wales universities and corresponding solutions ? </s> hefin david am : how does the welsh government account for the fact that eu student applications in wales this year—that wales is the only country in the uk to have seen a significant drop ? kirsty williams am : okay , well , i think the first thing to remember is that we will not get a full picture of student recruitment until , first of all , november and then the true picture , because some institutions , as you would know , have two admissions dates—we wo n't get the full picture until the spring . i think it was inevitable , given the change in government policy with regard to student support , which had previously allowed european students to benefit from a tuition fee grant , and given the fact that that option is no longer available to them , that that has had an impact on eu recruitment , and there 's no point trying to hide from that . hefin david am : so , together with leaving the eu , that 's a double-whammy effect that 's hitting wales harder than the rest of the uk . kirsty williams am : it just puts us in the same position as eu students applying to england , but it was inevitable . this was looked at by diamond . it was anticipated that this could be a consequence of the change in policy , and i think we see that reflected in the initial figure , although , as i said , we wo n't get the true picture until the first census in november , and then , ultimately , the final picture in the spring . hefin david am : how concerned are you by that ? kirsty williams am : clearly , we want our universities to be able to attract students from both the eu and from around the world . the fact that the tuition fee grant arrangements may have had an impact on european union students at this stage does not preclude the fact that wales , up until now , has been successful in recruiting international students . so , the change in the fee regime should not be a barrier to the recruitment of international students , because , actually , international students outside of the eu make up a bigger proportion of students not from the uk who come to our institutions . hefin david am : that 's a fair point , but it 's unfortunate timing , though , is n't it ? kirsty williams am : i think , from a public policy point of view and moving towards a sustainable way of funding our he sector , then both my priority and , i would say , the priority of the institutions was to see the implementation of diamond , which is what we have done . </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams think about swansea university when discussing the admission problems of wales universities and corresponding solutions ? </s> kirsty williams am : as i said in answer to your question earlier , there is a difference reflected in the exposure of institutions to eu and international students . i would argue that it 's not necessarily the case that institutions that are not high-tariff are not able to do very well in this sector . if you look , for instance , at swansea university—if you look at the work swansea university has done , that shows you what is possible . hefin david am : what is swansea 's success , then ? what can we learn from swansea ? kirsty williams am : what i think is important—and this is not about any one institution—what i think is really important is that we look to— . and i ca n't force institutions to do this . it 's a combination , i believe , for all universities , of getting their offer right—so , having a curriculum at their institution that is attractive and offers courses that people want to study . it 's about that curriculum being delivered in an excellent fashion , so high quality ratings for teaching , as well as having an infrastructure that is attractive to students . so , it 's all about getting the offer right and providing what students , both domestically and internationally , want . hefin david am : but the evidence would therefore suggest that that model of success that you 've just outlined is happening in swansea but it is n't happening in other institutions , and they 're seeing a drop . kirsty williams am : well , as i said , i think what we can see from cardiff , swansea and others is that it is possible to do very well in the sector . hefin david am : so , cardiff , swansea and bangor—but the others , not . </s>
<s> what did the group talk about the possible official solution to the problem with more funding , a new immigration policy and the help of the minister ? </s> julie morgan am : the additional £6.4 million that went to hefcw in the 2017-18 year , which i think you say is partly because of brexit and partly because of demographic and recruitment challenges , what do you expect to see as a result of that spending ? kirsty williams am : that funding was allocated , as i said , to enable hefcw to deal with any short-term implications arising out of demographic changes , because we 've seen a drop in the number of 18-year-olds , and the initial implications of eu transition . it was allocated as part of hefcw 's overall grant in aid , and therefore the council was given discretion as to how it was to be apportioned to the sector . the money was brought forward a year , because , in conversations with hefcw and the institutions , they felt that that money would be more useful earlier on . so , it was money that was brought forward into the allocation for 2017-18 , as opposed to 2018-19 , because they wanted to have that resource earlier rather than later . with regard to additional resources , you 'll be aware that we have made an additional resource of £5 million available to mitigate the freeze in tuition fees , and £5 million has been made available to hefcw to kick-start the work on postgraduate support until we 're in a position to fully implement diamond at the postgraduate level . julie morgan am : you say that the money is used at the discretion of the universities . so , you do n't have an analysis of how that was spent . kirsty williams am : the financial allocation , as i said , was agreed with the funding council and it was there to help universities with any cash flow issues , but if you 'd like further details i can provide those as much as i 'm able . julie morgan am : i think it would be interesting if we know what the money was spent on and , of course , that money is now not available for the next financial year , so there 's no way of carrying on what they were doing with it , presumably . kirsty williams am : well , as i said , it was part of the overall allocation to hefcw . with specific regard to dealing with the impact of brexit , you 'll be aware that we have reached an agreement in principle on the funding of £3.5 million to the global wales initiative . this was an application that came in from universities wales looking at specifically targeting and beefing up international work and international recruitment work to support them at this time , and we 're currently working with universities wales on the exact details and outcomes they would expect from that investment . julie morgan am : and do you have any estimate of how many students you hope to attract by that ? kirsty williams am : that is subject to continuing negotiations with universities wales before we let any contracts with them . what 's important is that that work is based on research that has been done by universities wales to look at the optimum markets that we should be targeting , specifically the united states of america and vietnam . julie morgan am : and will this money be used equally between all the universities ? kirsty williams am : we expect that all institutions—should they have a desire to participate—will be able to be assisted , as well as the overall global branding from universities wales and the new study in wales initiative . julie morgan am : thank you . i think we 've covered the eu student fees , have n't we ? lynne neagle am : okay . do you want to ask question 12 ? julie morgan am : has the welsh government explored the possibility of looking at different immigration rules for international and eu students who may wish to study here ? kirsty williams am : okay . well , with regard to immigration , clearly , this is something , at the moment , that is out of our hands , and i have to say , it has n't got off to a great start when initially the post-study work visas were issued just for a number of institutions in the south-east of england , with no consultation with us and i do n't believe with the scottish government either . so , we have campaigned , pushed , cajoled , lobbied , and i was very glad that in december last year , the home office did then make that scheme available to cardiff and to trinity saint david . we continue to press the point that we do not believe that , first of all , international students should be included in any immigration targets . i think all the evidence suggests that the british public do n't regard international students as immigrants , and therefore we do need to make sure that they are taken out of the targets and we can continue to press that message with the uk government . at the moment , you 'll be aware that welsh government has looked at a specific piece of work on whether there was any scope for specific immigration policy for wales , although i must say that was mostly in the field of actually the workforce rather than students . you 'll be aware that this week the government 's migration advisory committee—there are so many committees these days—have said that they do n't believe that there is a case for a separate provision for eu students , as opposed to international students . but we want an immigration system that makes it as easy as possible for those students who want to benefit from education in wales , and indeed the uk , to be able to do so . lynne neagle am : thank you . llyr . llyr gruffydd am : so , what are we doing from now on in then ? are we just waiting to see or are we continuing to push ? </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams think of the additional funding to hefcw when discussing the funding to support wales universities to go through the financial problems ? </s> julie morgan am : the additional £6.4 million that went to hefcw in the 2017-18 year , which i think you say is partly because of brexit and partly because of demographic and recruitment challenges , what do you expect to see as a result of that spending ? kirsty williams am : that funding was allocated , as i said , to enable hefcw to deal with any short-term implications arising out of demographic changes , because we 've seen a drop in the number of 18-year-olds , and the initial implications of eu transition . it was allocated as part of hefcw 's overall grant in aid , and therefore the council was given discretion as to how it was to be apportioned to the sector . the money was brought forward a year , because , in conversations with hefcw and the institutions , they felt that that money would be more useful earlier on . so , it was money that was brought forward into the allocation for 2017-18 , as opposed to 2018-19 , because they wanted to have that resource earlier rather than later . with regard to additional resources , you 'll be aware that we have made an additional resource of £5 million available to mitigate the freeze in tuition fees , and £5 million has been made available to hefcw to kick-start the work on postgraduate support until we 're in a position to fully implement diamond at the postgraduate level . julie morgan am : you say that the money is used at the discretion of the universities . so , you do n't have an analysis of how that was spent . kirsty williams am : the financial allocation , as i said , was agreed with the funding council and it was there to help universities with any cash flow issues , but if you 'd like further details i can provide those as much as i 'm able . julie morgan am : i think it would be interesting if we know what the money was spent on and , of course , that money is now not available for the next financial year , so there 's no way of carrying on what they were doing with it , presumably . </s>
<s> what did kirsty williams elaborate on the immigration policy when discussing the possible official solution to the problem ? </s> julie morgan am : has the welsh government explored the possibility of looking at different immigration rules for international and eu students who may wish to study here ? kirsty williams am : okay . well , with regard to immigration , clearly , this is something , at the moment , that is out of our hands , and i have to say , it has n't got off to a great start when initially the post-study work visas were issued just for a number of institutions in the south-east of england , with no consultation with us and i do n't believe with the scottish government either . so , we have campaigned , pushed , cajoled , lobbied , and i was very glad that in december last year , the home office did then make that scheme available to cardiff and to trinity saint david . we continue to press the point that we do not believe that , first of all , international students should be included in any immigration targets . i think all the evidence suggests that the british public do n't regard international students as immigrants , and therefore we do need to make sure that they are taken out of the targets and we can continue to press that message with the uk government . at the moment , you 'll be aware that welsh government has looked at a specific piece of work on whether there was any scope for specific immigration policy for wales , although i must say that was mostly in the field of actually the workforce rather than students . you 'll be aware that this week the government 's migration advisory committee—there are so many committees these days—have said that they do n't believe that there is a case for a separate provision for eu students , as opposed to international students . but we want an immigration system that makes it as easy as possible for those students who want to benefit from education in wales , and indeed the uk , to be able to do so . </s>
<s> summarize the official commitments to help the wales universities to get through the transition period . </s> eluned morgan am : i think it is important . what we 've said is that we want to maintain that range of learning opportunities that is provided by eu funding . i think we 've got to be clear that we are not working to this scenario . i think we 've got to— . the uk government have made us some promises and they 've made some commitments , and we need to hold them to that , and so let 's keep the pressure on . the moment we start saying , 'no , it 's all going to be okay , we 'll sort ourselves out'—i think that would be a huge mistake . we have been promised that we will not lose a penny as a result of brexit , and we need to make sure that we keep them to that commitment . i think it was quite interesting to hear what philip hammond said yesterday when he was in wales , saying that the money that we will receive will depend on the future shape of the economy , which implies that he has no idea what 's going to happen there , and that that shared prosperity fund will be designed around the deal . well , that 's really not what we 're interested in . we were made some promises , and we need them to commit to those promises . i think we have some real concerns about the shared prosperity fund not really following through on the commitments that were made during the brexit referendum . but , in terms of the replacements , we 'd be looking at about £15 million a year , and that would be a huge impact for us , but we 're not looking at that—i do n't think we should be—because they made some promises . john griffiths am : so , could you say that , if they keep their promises , then at least that level of funding would be maintained ? eluned morgan am : i think that would be a minimum , but that 's just one aspect of it . that 's not including the whole workplace learning money on top of that . lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy , you had a supplementary . suzy davies am : yes , just very quickly on the multi-annual point , obviously i recognise that we 're talking about six or seven-year cycles with europe , and i completely take the point that you do n't really know from year to year what your budget 's going to be , but welsh government does make multi-annual commitments . i think you did it yesterday , actually—the capital commitment is over more than one year . how are you able to do that and yet not quite feel confident that you can do that with—well , both your sectors , really ? eluned morgan am : i think it 's probably easier to do with capital than it is with revenue , so that 's what would make the difference . but it's— . these institutions are interested in revenue , because that 's what supports the staff . the one thing we all know is that employment opportunities today—the transitional nature of employment and the fact that people are not getting the kind of contracts that we 'd like them to get—that makes their lives very precarious and they 're less likely , then , to be committed to those institutions . i think it 's a really , really concerning thing , because what makes these institutions work well is their staff , so that makes life very , very difficult without that multi-annual commitment . suzy davies am : they also have to raise some of their own money as well—we must n't forget that . eluned morgan am : no , i think that 's right , and i think that there 's more that these institutions can do in terms of their own funding and being more responsive to employers and the need for skills in their areas . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : so , given the precarious state of planning for the finances , are you considering letting universities charge eu students international fees ? kirsty williams am : we do n't regulate the ability for universities to set fees for international students . they would be in a position to— [ inaudible . ] they are in a position to set international fees at a rate that , i guess , they feel is appropriate for the provision that they give to those students . lynne neagle am : okay , right . we 'll move on , then , to questions from llyr . llyr gruffydd am : thank you . i just wanted to pick up on the funding of apprenticeships and the long-term funding , because the esf—the commitments take us to 2023 , which takes us beyond any transition period . so , i just want to hear from you that there are assurances that the apprenticeship programme can be delivered as a whole , come what may . eluned morgan am : well , we 're fine until 2020 , because we 've had that guarantee from the government . the issue for us is the n+2 that we would have if we do have some kind of transition deal or an agreement with the eu . so , there is a risk and there is concern , beyond 2020 , that that would create problems if they do n't agree to fund that , which is the expectation that we have . llyr gruffydd am : but it is a prospect that this would n't be achieved as you foresee . eluned morgan am : well , we do hope , because we 've had the pledges and commitments from the government , that they will respect what we expected and what was expected by these institutions that have had the commitment of the funding . llyr gruffydd am : so , to what extent does that undermine the current work ? because institutions want to enter into agreements with providers and so on . businesses want to know , if they 're starting on some sort of journey , that they are going to get to the end of it some years down the line . that must be undermining a lot of the work that 's going on now . eluned morgan am : well , as i said , because the guarantee is there until 2020 , i think that , for now , people are willing to go into those agreements , and i hope that we 'll have a better outlook by november of the direction we 're moving in . but i do n't think it 's had an impact . you have to remember that the number of apprenticeships in wales is rising , while they 've collapsed entirely in england . so , it is important that we do continue , and it 's important that we do n't create an atmosphere here that 's going to undermine the confidence of our employers in committing to training in the workplace . llyr gruffydd am : are you confident that the government will achieve its targets in this context ? </s>
<s> why did eluned morgan disagree with suzy davies when talking about the official commitments to help the wales universities to get through the transition period ? </s> eluned morgan am : i think it is important . what we 've said is that we want to maintain that range of learning opportunities that is provided by eu funding . i think we 've got to be clear that we are not working to this scenario . i think we 've got to— . the uk government have made us some promises and they 've made some commitments , and we need to hold them to that , and so let 's keep the pressure on . the moment we start saying , 'no , it 's all going to be okay , we 'll sort ourselves out'—i think that would be a huge mistake . we have been promised that we will not lose a penny as a result of brexit , and we need to make sure that we keep them to that commitment . i think it was quite interesting to hear what philip hammond said yesterday when he was in wales , saying that the money that we will receive will depend on the future shape of the economy , which implies that he has no idea what 's going to happen there , and that that shared prosperity fund will be designed around the deal . well , that 's really not what we 're interested in . we were made some promises , and we need them to commit to those promises . i think we have some real concerns about the shared prosperity fund not really following through on the commitments that were made during the brexit referendum . but , in terms of the replacements , we 'd be looking at about £15 million a year , and that would be a huge impact for us , but we 're not looking at that—i do n't think we should be—because they made some promises . john griffiths am : so , could you say that , if they keep their promises , then at least that level of funding would be maintained ? eluned morgan am : i think that would be a minimum , but that 's just one aspect of it . that 's not including the whole workplace learning money on top of that . lynne neagle am : thank you . suzy , you had a supplementary . suzy davies am : yes , just very quickly on the multi-annual point , obviously i recognise that we 're talking about six or seven-year cycles with europe , and i completely take the point that you do n't really know from year to year what your budget 's going to be , but welsh government does make multi-annual commitments . i think you did it yesterday , actually—the capital commitment is over more than one year . how are you able to do that and yet not quite feel confident that you can do that with—well , both your sectors , really ? eluned morgan am : i think it 's probably easier to do with capital than it is with revenue , so that 's what would make the difference . but it's— . these institutions are interested in revenue , because that 's what supports the staff . the one thing we all know is that employment opportunities today—the transitional nature of employment and the fact that people are not getting the kind of contracts that we 'd like them to get—that makes their lives very precarious and they 're less likely , then , to be committed to those institutions . i think it 's a really , really concerning thing , because what makes these institutions work well is their staff , so that makes life very , very difficult without that multi-annual commitment . suzy davies am : they also have to raise some of their own money as well—we must n't forget that . eluned morgan am : no , i think that 's right , and i think that there 's more that these institutions can do in terms of their own funding and being more responsive to employers and the need for skills in their areas . suzy davies am : okay , thank you . thank you , chair . lynne neagle am : so , given the precarious state of planning for the finances , are you considering letting universities charge eu students international fees ? </s>
<s> why did llyr gruffydd disagree with eluned morgan when discussing the official commitments to help the wales universities to get through the transition period ? </s> lynne neagle am : okay , right . we 'll move on , then , to questions from llyr . llyr gruffydd am : thank you . i just wanted to pick up on the funding of apprenticeships and the long-term funding , because the esf—the commitments take us to 2023 , which takes us beyond any transition period . so , i just want to hear from you that there are assurances that the apprenticeship programme can be delivered as a whole , come what may . eluned morgan am : well , we 're fine until 2020 , because we 've had that guarantee from the government . the issue for us is the n+2 that we would have if we do have some kind of transition deal or an agreement with the eu . so , there is a risk and there is concern , beyond 2020 , that that would create problems if they do n't agree to fund that , which is the expectation that we have . llyr gruffydd am : but it is a prospect that this would n't be achieved as you foresee . eluned morgan am : well , we do hope , because we 've had the pledges and commitments from the government , that they will respect what we expected and what was expected by these institutions that have had the commitment of the funding . llyr gruffydd am : so , to what extent does that undermine the current work ? because institutions want to enter into agreements with providers and so on . businesses want to know , if they 're starting on some sort of journey , that they are going to get to the end of it some years down the line . that must be undermining a lot of the work that 's going on now . eluned morgan am : well , as i said , because the guarantee is there until 2020 , i think that , for now , people are willing to go into those agreements , and i hope that we 'll have a better outlook by november of the direction we 're moving in . but i do n't think it 's had an impact . you have to remember that the number of apprenticeships in wales is rising , while they 've collapsed entirely in england . so , it is important that we do continue , and it 's important that we do n't create an atmosphere here that 's going to undermine the confidence of our employers in committing to training in the workplace . llyr gruffydd am : are you confident that the government will achieve its targets in this context ? </s>
<s> what were the topics talked about in the meeting ? </s> grad e : ok , we 're on . so , i mean , everyone who 's on the wireless check that they 're on . phd f : c we grad g : alright . postdoc c : i see . yeah . phd f : yeah . grad e : ok , our agenda was quite short . professor b : oh , could you close the door , maybe ? yeah . grad e : sure . two items , which was , uh , digits and possibly stuff on on , uh , forced alignment , which jane said that liz and andreas had in information on , but they did n't , phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : i guess the only other thing , uh , for which i phd f : we should do that second , because liz might join us in time for that . professor b : um . ok , so there 's digits , alignments , and , um , i guess the other thing , which i came unprepared for , uh , is , uh , to dis s s see if there 's anything anybody wants to discuss about the saturday meeting . grad e : right . professor b : so . any i mean , maybe not . grad e : digits and alignments . but phd f : talk about aligning people 's schedules . professor b : yeah . grad e : yeah . postdoc c : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . i mean right . yeah , i mean , it was grad e : yeah , it 's forced alignment of people 's schedules . phd f : yeah . phd d : forced align . phd f : if we 're very professor b : yeah . phd f : yeah . professor b : with with whatever it was , a month and a half or something ahead of time , the only time we could find in common roughly in common , was on a saturday . phd d : yeah . phd f : it 's pretty sad . professor b : yeah . phd f : yeah . postdoc c : have have we thought about having a conference call to include him in more of in more of the meeting ? i i mean , i do n't know , if we had the if we had the telephone on the table professor b : no . but , h i mean , he probably has to go do something . phd f : no , actually i i have to i have to shuttle kids from various places to various other places . professor b : right ? postdoc c : i see . ok . professor b : yeah . phd f : so . and i do n't have and i do n't , um , have a cell phone phd d : a cell phone ? phd f : so i ca n't be having a conference call while driving . professor b : r r right . postdoc c : no . { comment } it 's not good . professor b : so we have to we postdoc c : that 's not good . phd f : plus , it would make for interesting noise background noise . uh professor b : so we have to equip him with a with a with a head - mounted , uh , cell phone grad e : ye - we and we 'd have to force you to read lots and lots of digits , professor b : and grad e : so it could get real real car noise . phd f : oh , yeah . phd d : yeah . phd f : oh , yeah . grad g : take advantage . phd d : and with the kids in the background . phd f : i 'll let i 'd let phd d : yeah . phd f : i let , uh , my five - year - old have a try at the digits , eh . professor b : yeah . grad e : so , anyway , i can talk about digits . um , did everyone get the results or shall i go over them again ? i mean that it was basically the only thing that was even slightly surprising was that the lapel did so well . um , and in retrospect that 's not as surprising as maybe i it should n't have been as surprising as i as as i felt it was . the lapel mike is a very high - quality microphone . and as morgan pointed out , that there are actually some advantages to it in terms of breath noises and clothes rustling if no one else is talking . phd d : yeah . phd f : exactly . grad e : um , so , uh grad g : mm - hmm . professor b : well , it 's yeah , sort of the bre the breath noises and the mouth clicks and so forth like that , the lapel 's gon na be better on . grad g : it 's g it phd d : or the cross - talk . yeah . professor b : the lapel is typically worse on the on clothes rustling , but if no one 's rustling their clothes , grad e : right . i mean , a lot of people are just sort of leaning over and reading the digits , professor b : it 's it 's grad e : so it 's it 's a very different task than sort of the natural . phd d : yeah . you do n't move much during reading digits , i think . professor b : yeah . yeah . grad e : right . grad g : probably the fact that it picks up other people 's speakers other people 's talking is an indication of that it the fact it is a good microphone . phd d : yeah . professor b : right . so in the digits , in most most cases , there were n't other people talking . grad e : right . right . phd f : d do the lapel mikes have any directionality to them ? professor b : there typically do n't , no . phd f : because i i suppose you could make some that have sort of that you have to orient towards your mouth , grad e : they have a little bit , phd f : and then it would grad e : but they 're not noise - cancelling . so , uh professor b : they 're they 're intended to be omni - directional . grad e : right . professor b : and th it 's and because you do n't know how people are gon na put them on , you know . phd f : mm - hmm . grad e : right . so , also , andreas , on that one the the back part of it should be right against your head . and that will he keep it from flopping aro up and down as much . phd f : it is against my head . professor b : yeah . um . yeah , we actually talked about this in the , uh , front - end meeting this morning , too . much the same thing , grad e : uh - huh . professor b : and and it was uh , i mean , there the point of interest to the group was primarily that , um , the , uh the system that we had that was based on h t k , that 's used by , you know , all the participants in aurora , was so much worse than the than the s r grad e : everybody . professor b : and the interesting thing is that even though , yes , it 's a digits task and that 's a relatively small number of words and there 's a bunch of digits that you train on , it 's just not as good as having a a l very large amount of data and training up a a a nice good big hmm . um , also you had the adaptation in the sri system , which we did n't have in this . um . so . um . phd f : and we know di - did i send you some results without adaptation ? professor b : i s i think stephane , uh , had seen them . grad e : or if you did , i did n't include them , cuz it was professor b : so phd f : yeah , i think i did , actually . so there was a significant loss from not doing the adaptation . professor b : yeah . phd f : um . a a a couple percent or some i mean well , i do n't know it overall uh , i i do n't remember , but there was there was a significant , um , loss or win { comment } from adaptation with with adaptation . and , um , that was the phone - loop adaptation . and then there was a very small like point one percent on the natives uh , win from doing , um , you know , adaptation to the recognition hypotheses . and i tried both means adaptation and means and variances , and the variances added another or subtracted another point one percent . so , it 's , um that 's the number there . point six , i believe , is what you get with both , uh , means and variance adaptation . grad e : right . professor b : but i think one thing is that , uh , i would presume hav - have you ever t have you ever tried this exact same recognizer out on the actual ti - digits test set ? phd f : this exact same recognizer ? no . professor b : it might be interesting to do that . cuz my my cuz my sense , um phd f : but but , i have i mean , people people at sri are actually working on digits . grad e : i bet it would do even slightly better . phd f : i could and they are using a system that 's , um you know , h is actually trained on digits , um , but h h otherwise uses the same , you know , decoder , the same , uh , training methods , and so forth , professor b : mm - hmm . phd f : and i could ask them what they get on ti - digits . professor b : yeah , bu although i 'd be i think it 'd be interesting to just take this exact actual system so that these numbers were comparable phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : and try it out on ti - digits . phd f : well , adam knows how to run it , professor b : yeah . grad e : yeah . no problem . phd f : so you just make a f professor b : yeah . yeah . cuz our sense from the other from the aurora , uh , task is that grad e : and try it with ti - digits ? phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , cuz we were getting sub one percent numbers on ti - digits also with the tandem thing . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so , one so there were a number of things we noted from this . one is , yeah , the sri system is a lot better than the htk this , you know , very limited training htk system . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : uh , but the other is that , um , the digits recorded here in this room with these close mikes , i uh , are actually a lot harder than the studio - recording ti - digits . i think , you know , one reason for that , uh , might be that there 's still even though it 's close - talking , there still is some noise and some room acoustics . phd f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : and another might be that , uh , i 'd i would presume that in the studio , uh , uh , situation recording read speech that if somebody did something a little funny or n pronounced something a little funny or made a little that they did n't include it , grad e : they did n't include it . professor b : they made them do it again . grad e : whereas , i took out the ones that i noticed that were blatant that were correctable . professor b : mmm . yeah . grad e : so that , if someone just read the wrong digit , i corrected it . professor b : yeah . grad e : and then there was another one where jose could n't tell whether i could n't tell whether he was saying zero or six . and i asked him and he could n't tell either . so i just cut it out . professor b : yeah . grad e : you know , so i just e edited out the first , i uh , word of the utterance . um , so there 's a little bit of correction but it 's definitely not as clean as ti - digits . so my expectations is ti - digits would , especially i think ti - digits is all american english . professor b : mm - hmm . grad e : right ? so it would probably do even a little better still on the sri system , but we could give it a try . phd f : well . but remember , we 're using a telephone bandwidth front - end here , uh , on this , uh on this sri system , so , um , i was i thought that maybe that 's actually a good thing because it it gets rid of some of the uh , the noises , um , you know , in the the below and above the um , the , you know , speech bandwidth professor b : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . phd f : and , um , i suspect that to get sort of the last bit out of these higher - quality recordings you would have to in fact , uh , use models that , uh , were trained on wider - band data . and of course we ca n't do that or grad e : wha - what 's ti - digits ? i thought t professor b : it 's wide - band , yeah . it 's in in fact , we looked it up grad e : it is wide - band . ok . professor b : and it was actually twenty kilohertz sampling . grad e : oh , that 's right . i i did look that up . phd f : mm - hmm . grad e : i could n't remember whether that was ti - digits or one of the other digit tasks . professor b : yeah . phd f : right . but but , i would yeah . it 's it 's easy enough to try , just run it on professor b : yeah . grad e : mm - hmm . so , morgan , you 're getting a little breath noise . phd f : now , eh , does grad e : you might wan na move the mike down a little bit . phd f : one one issue one issue with with that is that um , the system has this , uh , notion of a speaker to which is used in adaptation , variance norm uh , you know , both in , uh , mean and variance normalization and also in the vtl estimation . professor b : mm - hmm . phd f : so grad e : yeah , i noticed the script that extracted it . phd f : do y ? is ? so does so th so does does , um , the ti - digits database have speakers that are known ? grad e : yep . yep . phd f : and is there is there enough data or a comparable comparable amount of data to to what we have in our recordings here ? grad e : that i do n't know . i do n't know . i do n't know how many speakers there are , professor b : yeah . grad e : and and how many speakers per utterance . professor b : well , the other thing would be to do it without the adaptation and compare to these numbers without the adaptation . that would phd f : right . uh , but i 'm not so much worried about the adaptation , actually , than than the , um , um the , uh , vtl estimation . grad e : right . phd f : if you have only one utterance per speaker you might actually screw up on estimating the the warping , uh , factor . so , um grad e : i strongly suspect that they have more speakers than we do . so , uh phd f : right . but it 's not the amount of speakers , it 's the num it 's the amount of data per speaker . grad e : right . so we we could probably do an extraction that was roughly equivalent . phd f : right . right . so grad e : so , although i i sort of know how to run it , there are a little a f few details here and there that i 'll have to dig out . phd f : ok . the key so th the system actually extracts the speaker id from the waveform names . grad e : right . i saw that . phd f : and there 's a there 's a script and that is actually all in one script . so there 's this one script that parses waveform names and extracts things like the , um , speaker , uh , id or something that can stand in as a speaker id . so , we might have to modify that script to recognize the , um , speakers , um , in the in the , uh , um , ti - digits database . grad e : right . right . and that , uh phd f : or you can fake you can fake names for these waveforms that resemble the names that we use here for the for the meetings . grad e : right . phd f : that would be the , sort of probably the safest way to do grad e : i might have to do that anyway to to do because we may have to do an extract to get the amount of data per speaker about right . phd f : uh - huh . grad e : the other thing is , is n't ti - digits isolated digits ? phd f : right . grad e : or is that another one ? i 'm i looked through a bunch of the digits t corp corpora , and now they 're all blurring . professor b : mm - hmm . grad e : cuz one of them was literally people reading a single digit . and then others were connected digits . professor b : yeah . most of ti - digits is connected digits , i think . the i mean , we had a bellcore corpus that we were using . it was that 's that was isolated digits . grad e : maybe it 's the bell gram . bell digits . alright . phd f : by the way , i think we can improve these numbers if we care to compr improve them by , um , not starting with the switchboard models but by taking the switchboard models and doing supervised adaptation on a small amount of digit data collected in this setting . because that would adapt your models to the room acoustics and f for the far - field microphones , you know , to the noise . and that should really improve things , um , further . and then you use those adapted models , which are not speaker adapted but sort of acous you know , channel adapted grad e : channel adapted . phd f : use that as the starting models for your speaker adaptation . professor b : yeah . but the thing is , uh i mean , w when you it depends whether you 're ju were just using this as a a starter task for you know , to get things going for conversational or if we 're really interested i in connected digits . and i i think the answer is both . and for for connected digits over the telephone you do n't actually want to put a whole lot of effort into adaptation phd f : well , i do n't know . professor b : because somebody gets on the phone and says a number and then you just want it . you do n't do n't , uh postdoc c : this is this that one 's better . phd f : right . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd f : um , but , you know , i uh , my impression was that you were actually interested in the far - field microphone , uh , problem , i mean . so , you want to you want to that 's the obvious thing to try . postdoc c : oh . oh . professor b : right . phd f : right ? then , eh because you you do n't have any postdoc c : yeah . phd f : that 's where the most m acoustic mismatch is between the currently used models and the the r the set up here . professor b : right . yeah . so that 'd be anoth another interesting data point . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , i i guess i 'm saying i do n't know if we 'd want to do that as the as phd d : other way . grad e : other way . liz phd a : now you 're all watching me . grad e : it f it clips over your ears . phd a : alright . this way . grad e : there you go . postdoc c : if you have a strong fe if you have a strong preference , you could use this . phd a : you 're all watching . this is terrible . postdoc c : it 's just we we think it has some spikes . so , uh , we we did n't use that one . phd a : i 'll get it . postdoc c : but you could if you want . professor b : yeah . at any rate , i do n't know if w postdoc c : i do n't know . and andre - andreas , your your microphone 's a little bit low . professor b : yeah . phd f : it is ? professor b : i do n't know if we wan na use that as the postdoc c : yeah . grad e : uh , it pivots . postdoc c : so if you see the picture grad e : it it like this . phd f : i i postdoc c : and then you have to scr phd f : i i already adjusted this a number of times . i i grad e : yeah , i think these mikes are not working as well as i would like . phd f : ca n't quite seem to yeah , i think this contraption around your head is not working so well . professor b : too many adju too many adjustments . yeah . anyway , what i was saying is that i i think i probably would n't want to see that as sort of like the norm , that we compared all things to . postdoc c : that looks good . yeah . professor b : to , uh , the to have have all this ad all this , uh , adaptation . but i think it 's an important data point , if you 're if yeah . phd f : right . professor b : um . the other thing that that , uh of course , what barry was looking at was was just that , the near versus far . and , yeah , the adaptation would get th some of that . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : but , i think even even if there was , uh , only a factor of two or something , like i was saying in the email , i think that 's that 's a big factor . so phd f : mm - hmm . grad e : liz , you could also just use the other mike if you 're having problems with that one . postdoc c : well . yeah . this would be ok . we we we think that this has spikes on it , phd a : it 's this thing 's this is too big for my head . postdoc c : so it 's not as good acoustically , phd f : yeah , basically your ears are too big . postdoc c : but phd f : i mean , mine are too . e th everybody 's ears are too big for these things . phd a : no , my my but this is too big for my head . so , i mean , { comment } { comment } it does n't you know , it 's sit phd f : uh postdoc c : well , if you 'd rather have this one then it 's professor b : yeah . grad e : oh , well . professor b : it 's great . grad e : so the to get that , uh , pivoted this way , it pivots like this . phd a : no this way . yeah . grad e : yeah . there you go . postdoc c : and there 's a screw that you can tighten . grad e : and then it phd a : right . grad e : right . phd a : i already tried to get it close . postdoc c : good . grad e : so if it does n't bounce around too much , that 's actually good placement . postdoc c : that looks good . grad e : but it looks like it 's gon na bounce a lot . professor b : so , where were we ? uh yeah . postdoc c : yeah . grad e : digits . adaptation . professor b : uh , adaptation , non - adaptation , um , factor of two , um oh , yeah . i know what i was go w phd f : what k u by the way , wh what factor of two did you ? professor b : oh , no , no . phd f : i mean professor b : it 's tha that that we were saying , you know , well is how much worse is far than near , you know . phd f : oh , th ok . professor b : and i mean it depends on which one you 're looking at , phd f : that factor of two . professor b : but for the everybody , it 's little under a factor or two . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . i i know what i was thinking was that maybe , uh , i i we could actually t t try at least looking at , uh , some of the the large vocabulary speech from a far microphone , at least from the good one . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , before i thought we 'd get , you know , a hundred and fifty percent error or something , but if if , uh if we 're getting thirty - five , forty percent or something , u um phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : actually if you run , though , on a close - talking mike over the whole meeting , during all those silences , you get , like , four hundred percent word error . professor b : mm - hmm . right . i understand . but doing the same kind of limited thing phd a : or or some high number . professor b : yeah , sure . get all these insertions . but i 'm saying if you do the same kind of limited thing as people have done in switchboard evaluations or as a phd a : yeah . where you know who the speaker is and there 's no overlap ? and you do just the far - field for those regions ? professor b : yeah . yeah . the same sort of numbers that we got those graphs from . right ? grad e : could we do exactly the same thing that we 're doing now , but do it with a far - field mike ? professor b : yeah , do it with one of on grad e : cuz we extract the times from the near - field mike , but you use the acoustics from the far - field mike . phd a : right . i understand that . i just meant that so you have three choices . there 's , um you can use times where that person is talking only from the transcripts but the segmentations were were synchronized . or you can do a forced alignment on the close - talking to determine that , the you know , within this segment , these really were the times that this person was talking and elsewhere in the segment other people are overlapping and just front - end those pieces . or you can run it on the whole data , which is which is , you know , a professor b : but but but how did we get the how did we determine the links , uh , that we 're testing on in the stuff we reported ? phd a : in the h l t paper we took segments that are channel time - aligned , which is now h being changed in the transcription process , which is good , and we took cases where the transcribers said there was only one person talking here , because no one else had time any words in that segment and called that `` non - overlap `` . professor b : and tha and that 's what we were getting those numbers from . phd a : yes . tho - good the good numbers . professor b : right . phd a : the bad numbers were from the segments where there was overlap . professor b : well , we could start with the good ones . phd a : yeah . professor b : but anyway so i think that we should try it once with the same conditions that were used to create those , and in those same segments just use one of the p z phd a : right . so we we can do that . yeah . professor b : and then , you know , i mean , the thing is if we were getting , uh what , thirty - five , forty percent , something like that on on that particular set , uh , does it go to seventy or eighty ? phd a : right . professor b : or , does it use up so much memory we ca n't decode it ? phd a : it might also depend on which speaker th it is and how close they are to the pzm ? professor b : uh phd a : i do n't know how different they are from each other . phd f : you want to probably choose the pzm channel that is closest to the speaker . phd a : to be best phd d : yeah . grad e : for this particular digit ones , i just picked that one . professor b : well phd a : ok . so we would then use that one , too , grad e : so phd f : oh , ok . professor b : this is kind of central . phd a : or ? professor b : you know , it 's so i but i would i 'd pick that one . it 'll be less good for some people than for other , but i i 'd like to see it on the same exact same data set that that we did the other thing on . grad e : actually i sh actually should 've picked a different one , professor b : right ? grad e : because that could be why the pda is worse . because it 's further away from most of the people reading digits . phd d : it 's further away . yeah . yeah . professor b : that 's probably one of the reasons . postdoc c : hmm . mm - hmm . phd a : well , yeah . you could look at , i guess , that pzm or something . professor b : but the other is , it 's very , uh i mean , even though there 's i 'm sure the f f the the sri , uh , front - end has some kind of pre - emphasis , it 's it 's , uh still , th it 's picking up lots of low - frequency energy . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : so , even discriminating against it , i 'm sure some of it 's getting through . um . but , yeah , you 're right . prob - a part of it is just the distance . phd a : and are n't these pretty bad microphones ? i mean professor b : well , they 're bad . but , i mean , if you listen to it , it sounds ok . you know ? u yeah . grad e : yeah . when you listen to it , uh , the pzm and the pda yeah , th the pda has higher sound floor but not by a lot . it 's really pretty uh , pretty much the same . phd a : i just remember you saying you got them to be cheap on purpose . cheap in terms of their quality . so . professor b : well , they 're twenty - five cents or so . grad e : th - we wanted them to be to be typical of what would be in a pda . professor b : yeah . phd a : mm - hmm . grad e : so they are they 're not the pzm three hundred dollar type . they 're the twenty - five cent , professor b : yeah . grad e : buy them in packs of thousand type . phd a : i see . professor b : but , i mean , the thing is people use those little mikes for everything because they 're really not bad . grad e : everything . phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , if you 're not doing something ridiculous like feeding it to a speech recognizer , they they they you know , you can hear the sou hear the sounds just fine . phd a : right . professor b : you know , it 's they i mean , i it 's more or less the same principles as these other mikes are built under , it 's just that there 's less quality control . they just , you know , churn them out and do n't check them . um . so . so that was yeah . so that was i interesting result . so like i said , the front - end guys are very much interested in in this is as as well and phd f : so so , but where is this now ? i mean , what 's where do we go from here ? grad e : yeah . that was gon na be my question . phd f : i mean , we so we have a we have a a system that works pretty well but it 's not , you know , the system that people here are used to using to working with . professor b : well , i think what we wan na do is we want to eh , phd f : so what what do we do now ? professor b : and we 've talked about this in other contexts we want to have the ability to feed it different features . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : and then , um , from the point of view of the front - end research , it would be s uh , substituting for htk . phd f : ok . ok . professor b : i think that 's the key thing . and then if we can feed it different features , then we can try all the different things that we 're trying there . phd f : ok . alright . professor b : and then , um , uh , also dave is is thinking about using the data in different ways , uh , to um , uh , explicitly work on reverberation phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : starting with some techniques that some other people have found somewhat useful , and yeah . phd f : ok . so so the key thing that 's missing here is basically the ability to feed , you know , other features i into the recognizer professor b : right . phd f : and also then to train the system . professor b : right . phd f : ok . and , uh , es i do n't know when chuck will be back but that 's exactly what he he 's gon na professor b : h h he 's he 's sort of back , but he drove for fourteen hours an and was n't gon na make it in today . phd f : oh , ok . so , i think that 's one of the things that he said he would be working on . um . grad e : yeah . phd f : just sort of t to make sure that we can do that professor b : yeah . phd f : and um . professor b : right . phd f : it 's uh , i mean , the the front - end is f i tha that 's in the sri recognizer is very nice in that it does a lot of things on the fly but it unfortunately is not designed and , um like the , uh , icsi system is , where you can feed it from a pipeline of of the command . so , the what that means probably for the foreseeable future is that you have to , uh , dump out , um you know , if you want to use some new features , you have to dump them into individual files and give those files to the recognizer . grad e : we do we tend to do that anyway . oh . so , although you you can pipe it as well , we tend to do it that way because that way you can concentrate on one block and not keep re - doing it over and over . phd f : oh , ok . professor b : yeah . phd f : alright . professor b : yeah . so i 've i grad e : so tha that 's exactly what the p - file is for . professor b : yeah . phd f : yeah , the the the cumbersome thing is is , um is that you actually have to dump out little little files . phd a : uh phd f : so for each segment that you want to recognize you have to dump out a separate file . grad e : uh - huh . phd f : just like i th like th as if there were these waveform segments , but instead you have sort of feature file segments . but , you know so . professor b : cool . ok . so the s the the next thing we had on the agenda was something about alignments ? phd a : oh . yes , we have i do n't know , did you wan na talk about it , or ? i can give a i was just telling this to jane and and w we we were able to get some definite improvement on the forced alignments by looking at them first and then realizing the kinds of errors that were occurring and um , some of the errors occurring very frequently are just things like the first word being moved to as early as possible in the recognition , which is a um , i think was both a a pruning problem and possibly a problem with needing constraints on word locations . and so we tried both of these st things . we tried saying i do n't know , i got this whacky idea that just from looking at the data , that when people talk their words are usually chunked together . it 's not that they say one word and then there 's a bunch of words together . they 're { comment } might say one word and then another word far away if they were doing just backchannels ? but in general , if there 's , like , five or six words and one word 's far away from it , that 's probably wrong on average . so , um and then also , ca the pruning , of course , was too too severe . phd f : so that 's actually interesting . the pruning was the same value that we used for recognition . and we had lowered that we had used tighter pruning after liz ran some experiments showing that , you know , it runs slower and there 's no real difference in phd a : actually it was better with slightly better or about th grad e : no gain . phd a : it was the same with tighter pruning . phd f : right . so for free recognition , this the lower pruning value is better . phd a : it 's probably cuz the recognition 's just bad en at a point where it 's bad enough that that you do n't lose anything . phd f : you correct . right . um , but it turned out for for to get accurate alignments it was really important to open up the pruning significantly . phd a : right . phd f : um because otherwise it would sort of do greedy alignment , um , in regions where there was no real speech yet from the foreground speaker . professor b : mm - hmm . phd f : um , so that was one big factor that helped improve things and then the other thing was that , you know , as liz said the we f enforce the fact that , uh , the foreground speech has to be continuous . it can not be you can not have a background speech hypothesis in the middle of the foreground speech . you can only have background speech at the beginning and the end . phd a : yeah . i mean , yeah , it is n't always true , and i think what we really want is some clever way to do this , where , um , you know , from the data or from maybe some hand - corrected alignments from transcribers that things like words that do occur just by themselves a alone , like backchannels or something that we did allow to have background speech around it phd d : yeah . phd a : those would be able to do that , postdoc c : sorry . phd a : but the rest would be constrained . so , i think we have a version that 's pretty good for the native speakers . i do n't know yet about the non - native speakers . and , um , we basically also made noise models for the different sort of grouped some of the mouth noises together . um , so , and then there 's a background speech model . and we also there was some neat or , interesting cases , like there 's one meeting where , um , jose 's giving a presentation and he 's talking about , um , the word `` mixed signal `` and someone did n't understand , uh , that you were saying `` mixed `` i think , morgan . and so your speech - ch was s saying something about mixed signal . phd h : yeah , yeah . phd a : and the next turn was a lot of people saying `` mixed `` , like `` he means mixed signal `` or `` i think it 's mixed `` . and the word `` mixed `` in this segment occurs , like , a bunch of times . and chuck 's on the lapel here , and he also says `` mixed `` but it 's at the last one , and of course the aligner th aligns it everywhere else to everybody else 's `` mixed `` , phd h : yeah . phd a : cuz there 's no adaptation yet . so there 's i think there 's some issues about u we probably want to adapt at least the foreground speaker . but , i guess andreas tried adapting both the foreground and a background generic speaker , and that 's actually a little bit of a f funky model . like , it gives you some weird alignments , just because often the background speakers match better to the foreground than the foreground speaker . phd f : oh phd d : yeah . phd a : so there 's some things there , especially when you get lots of the same words , uh , occurring in the phd f : well , the i i think you can do better by uh , cloning so we have a reject phone . and you and what we wanted to try with you know , once we have this paper written and have a little more time , uh , t cloning that reject model and then one copy of it would be adapted to the foreground speaker to capture the rejects in the foreground , like fragments and stuff , and the other copy would be adapted to the background speaker . phd a : right . i mean , in general we actually phd f : and phd a : right now the words like partial words are reject models and you normally allow those to match to any word . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : but then the background speech was also a reject model , and so this constraint of not allowing rejects in between you know , it needs to differentiate between the two . so just sort of working through a bunch of debugging kinds of issues . phd f : right . phd a : and another one is turns , like people starting with `` well i think `` and someone else is `` well how about `` . so the word `` well `` is in this in this segment multiple times , and as soon as it occurs usually the aligner will try to align it to the first person who says it . but then that constraint of sort of uh , proximity constraint will push it over to the person who really said it in general . grad e : is the proximity constraint a hard constraint , or did you do some sort of probabilistic weighting distance , or ? phd f : we we did n't phd a : right now it 's a kluge . phd f : no . we w ok . we it 's straightforward to actually just have a a penalty that does n't completely disallows it but discourages it . but , um , we just did n't have time to play with , you know , tuning yet another yet another parameter . grad e : the ve level . yeah . phd a : yeah . phd f : and really the reason we ca n't do it is just that we do n't have a we do n't have ground truth for these . so , we would need a hand - marked , um , word - level alignments or at least sort of the boundaries of the speech betw you know , between the speakers . um , and then use that as a reference and tune the parameters of the of the model , uh , to op to get the best performance . phd a : yeah . professor b : g given i i mean , i wa i wa i was gon na ask you anyway , uh , how you assessed that things were better . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : i looked at them . i spent two days um , in waves oh , it was painful because the thing is , you know the alignments share a lot in common , so and you 're yo you 're looking at these segments where there 's a lot of speech . i mean , a lot of them have a lot of words . not by every speaker professor b : yeah . phd a : but by some speaker there 's a lot of words . no , not professor b : yeah . phd a : i mean that if you look at the individual segments from just one person you do n't see a lot of words , professor b : yeah . phd a : but altogether you 'll see a lot of words up there . professor b : yeah . phd f : mm - hmm . phd d : yeah . phd a : and so the reject is also mapping and pauses so i looked at them all in waves and just lined up all the alignments , and , at first it sort of looked like a mess and then the more i looked at it , i thought `` ok , well it 's moving these words leftward and `` you know , it was n't that bad . it was just doing certain things wrong . so but , i do n't , you know , have time to l { comment } to look at all of them and it would be really useful to have , like , a a transcriber who could use waves , um , just mark , like , the beginning and end of the foreground speaker 's real words like , the beginning of the first word , the end of the last word and then we could , you know , do some adjustments . postdoc c : yeah . i ok . i have to ask you something , is i does it have to be waves ? because if we could benefit from what you did , incorporate that into the present transcripts , { comment } that would help . and then , um , the other thing is , i believe that i did hand so . one of these transcripts was gone over by a transcriber and then i hand - marked it myself so that we do have , uh , the beginning and ending of individual utterances . um , i did n't do it word level , phd f : mm - hmm . postdoc c : but but in terms phd a : mm - hmm . postdoc c : so i so for for one of the n s a groups . and also i went back to the original one that i first transcribed and and did it w uh , w uh , utterance by utterance for that particular one . so i think you do have if that 's a sufficient unit , i think that you do have hand - marking for that . but it 'd be wonderful to be able to benefit from your waves stuff . phd a : mm - hmm . phd f : we do n't care what what tool you use . phd a : yeah . i mean , if if you can , um if you wan na postdoc c : ok . i used it in transcriber phd f : u uh postdoc c : and it 's it 's in the phd a : well , jane and i were just in terms of the tool , talking about this . i guess sue had had some reactions . you know , interface - wise if you 're looking at speech , you wan na be able to know really where the words are . and so , we can give you some examples of sort of what this output looks like , postdoc c : yeah , that 's right . middle of the word , or phd a : um , and see if you can in maybe incorporate it into the transcriber tool some way , or postdoc c : well , i th i 'm thinking just ch e e incorporating it into the representation . i mean , if it 's if it 's phd a : you mean like yeah , word start insights . postdoc c : if you have start points , if you have , like , time tags , phd a : right . postdoc c : which is what i assume . is n't that what what you ? well , see , adam would be phd f : yeah , whatever you use . phd a : yeah . phd f : i mean , we convert it to this format that the , um , nist scoring tool unders uh , ctm . conversation time - marked file . and and then that 's the that 's what the grad e : i think transcriber , uh , outputs ctm . postdoc c : if it ? ok . phd a : yeah . postdoc c : so you would know this more than i would . grad e : i think so . phd a : so , i mean postdoc c : it seems like she if she 's g if she 's moving time marks around , phd f : right . postdoc c : since our representation in transcriber uses time marks , it seems like there should be some way of of using that benefitting from that . grad e : right . phd a : yeah , it wou the advantage would just be that when you brought up a bin you would be able if you were zoomed in enough in transcriber to see all the words , professor b : mm - hmm . phd a : you would be able to , like , have the words sort of located in time , if you wanted to do that . professor b : so so if we e e even just had a a it sounds like w we we almost do . uh , if we we have two . postdoc c : we have two . professor b : yeah . just ha uh , trying out the alignment procedure that you have on that phd a : mm - hmm . professor b : you could actually get something , um uh , uh , get an objective measure . uh phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : you mean on on the hand - marked , um so we we only r hav i only looked at actually alignments from one meeting that we chose , professor b : yeah . phd a : i think mr four , just randomly , um and phd f : actually , not randomly . phd a : not randomly phd f : we knew we knew that it had these insertion errors from phd a : it had sort of average recognition performance in a bunch of speakers phd f : yeah . yeah . phd a : and it was a meeting recorder meeting . um . but , yeah , we should try to use what you have . i did re - run recognition on your new version of mr one . postdoc c : oh , good . phd a : i i mean the the one with dan ellis in it and eric . postdoc c : good ! uh - huh . yeah , exactly . yeah . yeah . grad g : i do n't think that was the new version . phd a : um that yeah , actually it was n't the new new , it was the medium new . but but we would we should do the the latest version . grad g : yeah . phd a : it was the one from last week . grad g : you did you adjust the the utterance times , um , for each channel ? postdoc c : yes . yes , i did . and furthermore , i found that there were a certain number where not not a lot , but several times i actually moved an utterance from adam 's channel to dan 's or from dan 's to adam 's . so there was some speaker identif and the reason was because i transcribed that at a point before uh , before we had the multiple audio available f so i could n't switch between the audio . i i transcribed it off of the mixed channel entirely , which meant in overlaps , i was at a at a terrific disadvantage . phd a : right . right . postdoc c : in addition it was before the channelized , uh , possibility was there . and finally i did it using the speakers of my , um of you know , off the cpu on my on my machine cuz i did n't have a headphone . phd a : right . postdoc c : so it @ @ , like , i mean yeah , i i mean , i in retrospect it would 've been good to ha have got i should 've gotten a headphone . but in any case , um , thi this is this was transcribed in a in a , uh , less optimal way than than the ones that came after it , and i was able to you know , an and this meant that there were some speaker identif identifications which were changes . grad g : well , i know there were some speaker labelling problems , um , after interruptions . postdoc c : yeah . fixed that . grad g : is that what you 're referring to ? i mean , cuz there 's this one instance when , for example , you 're running down the stairs . postdoc c : oh , well grad g : i remember this meeting really well . phd d : yeah . phd a : don don has had he knows he can just read it like a play . grad g : right . it 's a yeah , i 've i 've i 'm very well acquainted with this meeting . phd d : yeah . grad g : yeah , i can s phd a : `` and then she said , and then he said . `` grad g : yeah , i know it by heart . so , um , there 's one point when you 're running down the stairs . postdoc c : uh - oh . grad g : right ? and , like , there 's an interruption . you interrupt somebody , but then there 's no line after that . for example , there 's no speaker identification after that line . postdoc c : uh - huh . grad g : is that what you 're talking about ? or were there mislabellings as far as , like , the a adam was ? postdoc c : that was fixed , um , before i i i i think i i think i understood that pretty grad g : yeah . cuz i thought i let you know about that . postdoc c : thank you for mentioning . yeah , no , tha that that i think went away a couple of versions ago , grad g : yeah . ok . postdoc c : but it 's good to know . grad g : but you 're actually saying that certain , uh , speakers were mis mis - identified . postdoc c : yeah . so , with under um , uh , listening to the mixed channel , there were times when , as surprising as that is , i got adam 's voice confused with dan 's and vice versa not for long utterances , phd a : yeah . postdoc c : but jus just a couple of places , professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc c : and embedde embedded in overlaps . the other thing that was w interesting to me was that i picked up a lot of , um , backchannels which were hidden in the mixed signal , phd a : right . postdoc c : which , you know , i mean , you c not not too surprising . but the other thing that i i had n't thought about this , but i thou i wanted to raise this when you were uh , with respect to also a strategy which might help with the alignments potentially , but that 's when i was looking at these backchannels , they were turning up usually very often in w well , i wo n't say `` usually `` but anyway , very often , i picked them up in a channel w which was the person who had asked a question . s so , like , someone says `` an and have you done the so - and - so ? `` and then there would be backchannels , but it would be the person who asked the question . other people were n't really doing much backchannelling . and , you know , sometimes you have the yeah , uh - huh . phd a : well , that 's interesting . yeah . postdoc c : i mean , i it would n't be perfect , but but it does seem more natural to give a backchannel when when you 're somehow involved in the topic , phd a : no , that 's really interesting . professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc c : and the most natural way is for you to have initiated the topic by asking a question . phd f : well , phd a : that 's interesting . phd f : i think no . i think it 's actually i think what 's going on is backchannelling is something that happens in two - party conversations . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd f : and if you ask someone a question , you essentially initiating a little two - party conversation . postdoc c : yeah . phd a : well , actu yeah , when we looked at this postdoc c : exactly . phd f : so then you 're so and then you 're expected to backchannel because the person is addressing you directly and not everybody . postdoc c : exactly . exactly my point . an - and so this is the expectation thing that uh , uh , phd f : yeah . yeah . phd a : mm - hmm . phd f : right . postdoc c : just the dyadic phd f : right . postdoc c : but in addition , you know , if someone has done this analysis himself and is n't involved in the dyad , but they might also give backchannels to verify what what the answer is that this that the the answerer 's given phd a : right . professor b : i tell you , i say i say `` uh - huh `` a lot , phd a : it 's postdoc c : there you go . phd a : well , but it 's interesting cuz , uh professor b : while people are talking to each other . phd a : but there are fewer i think there are fewer `` uh - huhs `` . postdoc c : there you go . yeah . yeah . phd a : i mean , just from we were looking at word frequency lists to try to find the cases that we would allow to have the reject words in between in doing the alignment . you know the ones we would n't constrain to be next to the other words . postdoc c : oh , yeah . phd a : and `` uh - huh `` is not as frequent as it sort of would be in switchboard , if you looked at just a word frequency list of one - word short utterances . and `` yeah `` is way up there , but not `` uh - huh `` . and so i was thinking thi it 's not like you 're being encouraged by everybody else to keep talking in the meeting . and uh , that 's all , i i 'll stop there , cuz i i think what you say makes a lot of sense . postdoc c : well , that 's right . and that would phd a : but it was sort of postdoc c : well , an and what you say is the is the re uh , o other side of this , which is that , you know , so th there are lots of channels where you do n't have these backchannels , w when a question has been asked and and these phd a : right . there 's just probably less backchannelling in general , postdoc c : mm - hmm . so that 's good news , really . phd a : even if you consider every other person altogether one person in the meeting , but we 'll find out anyway . we were i guess the other thing we 're we 're i should say is that we 're gon na , um try compare this type of overlap analysis to switchboard , where and callhome , where we have both sides , so that we can try to answer this question of , you know , is there really more overlap in meetings or is it just because we do n't have the other channel in switchboard professor b : mm - hmm . grad e : mm - hmm . phd a : and we do n't know what people are doing . try to create a paper out of that . professor b : yeah . i mean , y y you folks have probably already told me , but were were you intending to do a eurospeech submission , or ? phd a : um , you mean the one due tomorrow ? professor b : yeah . phd a : yeah . well , we 're still , like , writing the scripts for doing the research , and we will yes , we 're gon na try . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd a : and i was telling don , do not take this as an example of how people should work . professor b : do as i say , grad g : that 's r phd a : so , { comment } we will try . professor b : do n't do as i do . yeah . phd a : it 'll probably be a little late , grad e : well phd a : but i 'm gon na try it . grad e : it is different . in previous years , eurospeech only had the abstract due by now , not the full paper . phd a : right . grad g : right . grad e : and so all our timing was off . i 've given up on trying to do digits . i just do n't think that what i have so far makes a eurospeech paper . phd a : well , i 'm no we may be in the same position , and i figured we 'll try , because that 'll at least get us to the point where we have we have this really nice database format that andreas and i were working out that it it 's not very fancy . it 's just a ascii line by line format , but it does give you information phd f : it 's the it 's the spurt format . phd a : it yeah , we 're calling these `` spurts `` after chafe . i was trying to find what 's a word for a continuous region with pauses around it ? professor b : yeah . i know that th the telecom people use use `` spurt `` for that . postdoc c : good . phd a : they do ? oh ! professor b : and that 's i mean , i i was using that for a while when i was doing the rate of speech stuff , phd a : i would jus professor b : because i because i looked up in some books and i found ok , i wan na find a spurt in which phd a : ah , right ! it 's just , like , defined by the acoustics . professor b : and an because cuz it 's another question about how many pauses they put in between them . grad e : horrible . phd a : right . professor b : but how fast do they do the words within the spurt ? phd a : right . professor b : yeah . phd a : well , that 's what we were calling spurt , grad e : it 's gon na grad g : you know `` burst `` also ? grad e : burst . grad g : is n't `` burst `` is used also ? phd a : so grad e : spurt has the horrible name overloading with other with hardware at icsi . professor b : here . just very locally , yeah . phd a : well , well , chafe had this wor i think it was chafe , or somebody had a the word `` spurt `` originally , professor b : but but that just phd h : here @ @ phd a : and so i but tha that 's good to know . postdoc c : actually phd a : was thi it 's chafe ? postdoc c : well , see , i know s sue wrote about spurts of development . phd f : so maybe we should talk phd a : maybe it was sue ? y postdoc c : but , in any case , i think it 's a good term , phd a : so we have spurts and we have spurt - ify dot shell and spurt - ify professor b : yeah . postdoc c : and , uh professor b : yeah . postdoc c : and ma maybe maybe chafe did . phd a : and then it 's got all it 's a verb now . postdoc c : i know i know ch - chafe dealt with grad g : that 's cool . phd f : w uh , w postdoc c : chafe speaks about intonation units . phd a : yes . right . postdoc c : but maybe he speaks about spurts as well and i just do n't know . yeah , go ahead . grad e : i 've heard `` burst `` also . phd f : so what we 're doing uh , this this is just maybe someone has s some some ideas about how to do it better , but we so we 're taking these , uh , alignments from the individual channels . we 're from each alignment we 're producing , uh , one of these ctm files , postdoc c : great . phd f : which essentially has it 's just a linear sequence of words with the begin times for every word and the duration . phd a : it looks like a waves label file almost . right ? phd f : and and and of course phd a : it 's just phd f : right . but it has one the first column has the meeting name , so it could actually contain several meetings . um . and the second column is the channel . third column is the , um , start times of the words and the fourth column is the duration of the words . and then we 're , um ok . then we have a messy alignment process where we actually insert into the sequence of words the , uh , tags for , like , where where sentence ends of sentence , question marks , um , various other things . phd a : yeah . these are things that we had don so , don sort of , um , propagated the punctuation from the original transcriber phd f : right . phd a : so whether it was , like , question mark or period or , um , you know , comma and things like that , and we kept the and disfluency dashes uh , kept those in because we sort of wan na know where those are relative to the spurt overlaps phd f : mm - hmm . right . phd a : sp overlaps , phd f : so so those are actually sort of retro - fitted into the time alignment . phd a : or phd f : and then we merge all the alignments from the various channels and we sort them by time . and then there 's a then there 's a process where you now determine the spurts . that is actually , no , you do that before you merge the various channels . so you you id identify by some criterion , which is pause length you identify the beginnings and ends of these spurts , and you put another set of tags in there to keep those straight . professor b : mm - hmm . phd f : and then you merge everything in terms of , you know , linearizing the sequence based on the time marks . and then you extract the individual channels again , but this time you know where the other people start and end talking you know , where their spurts start and end . and so you extract the individual channels , uh , one sp spurt by spurt as it were . um , and inside the words or between the words you now have begin and end tags for overlaps . so , you you basically have everything sort of lined up and in a form where you can look at the individual speakers and how their speech relates to the other speakers ' speech . grad e : right . phd a : uh , i mean , i think that 's actually really u useful also phd f : and phd a : because even if you were n't studying overlaps , if you wan na get a transcription for the far - field mikes , how are you gon na know which words from which speakers occurred at which times relative to each other ? you have to be able to get a transcript like like this anyway , just for doing far - field recognition . so , you know , it 's it 's sort of phd f : yeah . phd a : i thi it 's just an issue we have n't dealt with before , how you time - align things that are overlapping anyway . postdoc c : that 's wonderful . phd f : so phd a : i mean , i i never thought about it before , grad e : well phd f : and and we phd a : but grad e : y yes . phd f : in grad e : i mean , s when i came up with the original data suggested data format based on the transcription graph , there 's capability of doing that sort of thing in there . phd a : right . but you ca n't get it directly from the transcription . postdoc c : mm - hmm . yeah , that 's right . phd f : right . well , this is this is just phd a : yeah , this is like a poor man 's ver formatting version . but it 's , you know it 's clean , it 's just not fancy . grad e : right . phd f : well , there 's lots of little things . it 's like there 're twelve different scripts which you run and then at the end you have what you want . but , um , at the very last stage we throw away the actual time information . all we care about is whether that there 's a certain word was overlapped by someone else 's word . so you sort of at that point , you discretize things into just having overlap or no overlap . because we figure that 's about the level of analysis that we want to do for this paper . grad e : mm - hmm . phd f : but if you wanted to do a more fine - grained analysis and say , you know , how far into the word is the overlap , you could do that . phd a : yeah . phd f : it 's just it 'll just require more phd a : just sort of huge . phd f : you know , slightly different postdoc c : what 's interesting is it 's exactly what , um , i in discussing with , um , sue about this , phd a : yeah . postdoc c : um , she , um , i i i indicated that that you know , that 's very important for overlap analysis . phd a : yeah . it 's it 's nice to know , phd f : right . phd a : and also i think as a human , like , i do n't always hear these in the actual order that they occur . so i can have two foreground speakers , you know , morgan an and um , adam and jane could all be talking , and i could align each of them to be starting their utterance at the correct time , and then look where they are relative to each other , and that 's not really what i heard . postdoc c : and that 's another thing she said . phd a : cuz it 's just hard to do . postdoc c : this is this is bever 's bever 's effect , phd a : y yeah . postdoc c : when where in psy ps psycho - linguistics you have these experiments where people have perceptual biases a as to what they hear , phd a : it 's sort of yeah , you sort of move things around until you get to a low information point postdoc c : that that not the best phd a : and yo then you can bring in the other person . so it 's actually not even possible , i think , for any person to listen to a mixed signal , even equalize , and make sure that they have all the words in the right order . so , i guess , we 'll try to write this eurospeech paper . postdoc c : mm - hmm . superb . phd a : i mean , we will write it . whether they accept it late or not , i do n't know . um , and the good thing is that we have it 's sort of a beginning of what don can use to link the prosodic features from each file to each other . phd f : yeah . professor b : yeah . that 's the good thing about these pape phd a : so . i you know , might as well . phd f : plus , mayb phd a : we - i ju otherwise we wo n't get the work done { comment } on our deadline . phd f : i do n't know , m professor b : yeah . phd f : i mean , u u jane likes to look at data . maybe , you know , you could you could look at this format and see if you find anything interesting . professor b : yeah . phd f : i do n't know . phd a : yeah . professor b : no , it 's that 's the good thing about these pape paper deadlines and , uh , you know , class projects , and and things like that , postdoc c : well , what i 'm thinking is phd f : yeah . postdoc c : yeah . phd a : right . phd f : mm - hmm . postdoc c : well , my phd f : well th th the other thing that that that yo that you usually do n't tell your graduate students is that these deadlines are actually not that , um , you know , strictly enforced , professor b : because you you really get g phd a : forces you to do the work . postdoc c : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd a : exactly . grad e : strict . phd f : because the professor b : oh , now it 's out in the public , this this this secret information . phd f : because phd a : right . professor b : yeah . postdoc c : i think we can ha phd f : bec b nah phd a : so phd f : i because these the conference organizers actually have an interest in getting lots of submissions . phd a : right . grad e : right . phd f : i mean , a a monetary interest . professor b : yeah . phd f : so um . professor b : th - that 's that 's true . postdoc c : and good ones , good ones , which sometimes means a little extra time . phd f : and good submission professor b : that 's phd f : right . professor b : that 's true . phd f : well that 's another issue , professor b : by th by the way , this is totally unfair , you may you may feel , phd f : but professor b : but the the , uh the morning meeting folks actually have an an extra month or so . phd f : mm - hmm . grad e : yep . the aurora there 's a special aurora phd a : uh phd f : when professor b : there 's a special aurora session and the aurora pe people involved in aurora have till ma - uh , early may or something to turn in their paper . phd a : oh , well maybe we 'll submit to s { comment } actually phd f : well , then you can just maybe you can submit the digits paper on e for the aurora session . phd h : yeah . phd a : yeah . phd d : yeah . grad e : oh , i could ! phd a : yeah . professor b : i if it w grad e : i could submit that to aurora . professor b : well grad e : that would be pretty pretty phd f : yeah . professor b : i it has phd a : yeah . grad e : s that would n't work . professor b : no , it would n't work . grad e : it 's not aurora . professor b : it 's it 's not the aurora i mean , it it 's it 's actually the aurora task . phd a : maybe they 'll get s grad e : aurora 's very specific . phd a : well , maybe it wo n't be after this deadline extension . phd f : but but the people i mean , a a paper that is not on aurora would probably be more interesting at that point phd a : maybe they 'll phd f : because everybody 's so sick and tired of the aurora task . phd d : yeah . grad e : oh , i thought you meant this was just the digits section . i did n't know you meant it was aurora digits . professor b : yeah . phd f : well , no . if you if you have it 's to if you discuss some relation to the aurora task , like if you use the same professor b : this is not the aurora task . so they just do a little grep for phd a : do uh , d d do not do not we are not setting a good example . phd f : um . well , a relation other than negation , maybe , phd a : this is not a phd f : um . so . phd a : anyway . phd f : i do n't know . phd a : but the good thing is this does grad e : well , i i do n't know . i mean , you could you could do a paper on what 's wrong with the aurora task by comparing it to other ways of doing it . phd f : how well does an aurora system do on on you know , on digits collected in a in this environment ? grad e : different way . yeah . phd f : yeah . professor b : maybe . phd f : maybe . grad e : pretty hokey . professor b : i think it 's a littl little far - fetched . nah , i mean , the thing is aurora 's pretty closed community . i mean , you know , the people who were involved in the the only people who are allowed to test on that are people who who made it above a certain threshold in the first round , phd f : mm - hmm . grad e : it 's very specific . professor b : uh w in ninety - nine and it 's it 's sort of a it 's not like a phd f : well , that 's maybe why they do n't f know that they have a crummy system . i mean , a crummy back - end . no , i mean i mean , seriously , if you if you have a very no , i 'm sorry . phd a : uh , { comment } `` beep `` `` bee `` grad e : i mean , th phd f : no . i did n't mean anybody any particular system . i meant this h t k back - end . professor b : oh , you do n't like htk ? phd f : if they phd h : yeah . phd f : i do n't h i do n't have any stock in htk or entropic or anything . professor b : no . i mean , this it it 's the htk that is trained on a very limited amount of data . grad e : it 's d it 's very specific . phd f : right . professor b : yeah . phd f : but so , if you but maybe you should , you know , consider more using more data , or i mean professor b : oh , yeah . i i really think that that 's true . and they i i phd f : if yo if you sort of hermetically stay within one task and do n't look left and right , then you 're gon na grad e : but they they had professor b : i but grad e : they had something very specific in mind when they designed it . right ? professor b : well , u i phd f : right . grad e : and so so you can you can argue about maybe that was n't the right thing to do , but , you know , they they they had something specific . professor b : but , one of the reasons i have chuck 's messing around with with the back - end that you 're not supposed to touch i mean , for the evaluations , yes , we 'll run a version that has n't been touched . phd f : mm - hmm . mm - hmm . professor b : but , uh , one of the reasons i have him messing around with that , because i think it 's sort of an open question that we do n't know the answer to . people always say very glibly that i if you s show improvement on a bad system , that does n't mean anything , cuz it may not be show uh , because , you know , it does n't tell you anything about the good system . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : and i i 've always sort of felt that that depends . you know , that if some peopl if you 're actually are getting at something that has some conceptual substance to it , it will port . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : and in fact , most methods that people now use were originally tried with something that was not their absolute best system at some level . but of course , sometimes it does n't , uh , port . so i think that 's that 's an interesting question . if we 're getting three percent error on , uh , u uh , english , uh , nati native speakers , um , using the aurora system , and we do some improvements and bring it from three to two , do those same improvements bring , uh , th you know , the sri system from one point three to you know , to point eight ? phd f : hmm . mm - hmm . grad e : zero . professor b : well . you know , so that 's that 's something we can test . phd f : mmm . right . professor b : so . anyway . i think we 've we 've covered that one up extremely well . postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd f : whew ! professor b : ok . so , um yeah . so tha so we 'll you know , maybe you guys 'll have have one . uh , you you and , uh and dan have have a paper that that 's going in . phd d : yeah . professor b : you know , that 's that 's pretty solid , on the segmentation stuff . phd d : yeah . yeah . i will send you the the final version , professor b : yeah . and the aurora folks here will will definitely get something in on aurora , phd d : which is not phd f : actually this this , um so , there 's another paper . it 's a eurospeech paper but not related to meetings . but it 's on digits . so , um , uh , a colleague at sri developed a improved version of mmie training . professor b : uh - huh . phd f : and he tested it mostly on digits because it 's sort of a you know , it does n't take weeks to train it . professor b : right . phd f : um . and got some very impressive results , um , with , you know , discriminative , uh , gaussian training . um , you know , like , um , error rates go from i do n't know , in very noisy environment , like from , uh , uh i for now i ok , now i have the order of magnit i 'm not sure about the order of magnitude . was it like from ten percent to eight percent or from e e you know , point you know , from one percent to point eight percent ? professor b : h i it got it got better . phd f : i mean , it 's a professor b : yeah , yeah . phd d : yeah . phd f : it got better . that 's the important thing . grad e : hey , that 's the same percent relative , phd f : yeah . but it 's grad e : so phd f : yeah . right . professor b : yeah . phd f : it 's , uh , something in professor b : yeah . grad e : twenty percent relative gain . phd f : right . professor b : yeah . phd f : yeah . professor b : yeah . um , let 's see . i think the only thing we had left was unless somebody else well , there 's a couple things . uh , one is anything that , um , anybody has to say about saturday ? anything we should do in prep for saturday ? um i guess everybody knows about i mean , u um , mari was asking was trying to come up with something like an agenda and we 're sort of fitting around people 's times a bit . but , um , clearly when we actually get here we 'll move things around this , as we need to , but so you ca n't absolutely count on it . but but , uh phd d : yeah . phd a : are we meeting in here probably or ? ok . professor b : yeah . that was my thought . phd a : yeah . professor b : i think this is phd f : are we recording it ? phd a : we wo n't have enough microphones , but professor b : u no . i i had n't in intended to . phd a : there 's no way . professor b : we won we wan na i mean , they 're there 's gon na be , uh , jeff , katrin , mari and two students . so there 's five from there . grad e : and brian . professor b : and brian 's coming , phd f : but you know th professor b : so that 's six . grad e : and plus all of us . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : uh phd f : can use the oprah mike . phd a : depends how fast you can throw it . grad e : it seems like too many too much coming and going . phd a : it 's just yeah . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : we do n't even have enough channel professor b : well phd f : because it would be a different kind of meeting , phd d : yeah . phd f : that 's what i 'm professor b : well phd f : but phd h : yeah . professor b : i had n't really thought of it , phd f : maybe just maybe not the whole day professor b : but phd f : but just , you know , maybe some i mean , professor b : maybe part of it . phd f : part of it ? professor b : maybe part of it . grad e : make everyone read digits . professor b : at the same time . phd a : at the same time . grad e : at the same time . phd f : please . professor b : yeah . i do n't know . phd a : that 's their initiation into our grad e : into our our our cult . phd a : yeah , our yeah , our phd f : maybe the sections that are not right afte you know , after lunch when everybody 's still munching and phd a : so can you send out a schedule once you know it , jus ? professor b : ok . well phd a : is is there a r ? professor b : ok . yeah . i guess i sent it around a little bit . phd a : there 's a res is it changed now , or ? professor b : but i had n't heard back from mari after i i u u uh , brought up the point abou about andreas 's schedule . so , um , maybe when i get back there 'll be some some mail from her . so , i 'll make a postdoc c : i 'm looking forward to seeing your representation . that 'd be , uh phd a : and w we should get the two meetings from y postdoc c : i 'd like to see that . yeah . phd a : i mean , i know about the first meeting , um , but the other one that you did , the nsa one , which we had n't done cuz we were n't running recognition on it , because the non - native speaker postdoc c : mm - hmm . phd a : there were five non - native speakers . postdoc c : mm - hmm . i see . mm - hmm . phd a : but , it would be useful for the to see what we get with that one . so . postdoc c : great . ok . it 's , uh , two thousand eleven twenty - one one thousand . phd a : yeah , three . right . so postdoc c : great . i sent email when i finished the that one . phd a : n s a three , i think . postdoc c : that was sort of son yeah , that 's right . that 's right . that 's much simpler . phd a : i do n't know what they said but i know the number . professor b : th - that part 's definitely gon na confuse somebody who looks at these later . phd f : right . professor b : i mean , this is we we 're recording secret nsa meetings ? phd f : um . not the professor b : i mean , it 's phd f : yeah . postdoc c : yeah . not that nsa . phd f : uh . the th the phd a : they are hard to understand . professor b : it 's network services and applications . phd f : wait . phd a : they 're very , uh , out there . phd f : the phd a : i have no idea what they 're talking about . professor b : yeah . phd f : the , um th the other good thing about the alignments is that , um , it 's not always the machine 's fault if it does n't work . so , you can actually find , um , phd a : it 's the person 's fault . phd f : problem uh , proble phd a : it 's morgan 's fault . phd f : you can find professor b : it 's always morgan 's fault . phd f : you can find , uh , problems with with the transcripts , um , you know , phd a : yeah . phd f : and go back and fix them . phd a : tha - there are some cases like where the the wrong speaker uh , these ca not a lot , but where the the wrong person the the speech is addre attached to the wrong speaker phd f : but phd a : and you can tell that when you run it . or at least you can get clues to it . postdoc c : interesting . phd a : so these are from the early transcriptions that people did on the mixed signals , like what you have . postdoc c : i guess it does w mm - hmm . it also raises the possibility of , um , using that kind of representation i mean , i do n't know , this 'd be something we 'd wan na check , { comment } but maybe using that representation for data entry and then displaying it on the channelized , uh , representation , cuz it i think that the i mean , my my preference in terms of , like , looking at the data is to see it in this kind of musical score format . phd a : mm - hmm . postdoc c : and also , s you know , sue 's preference as well . phd a : yeah , if you can get it to postdoc c : and and but , i mean , this if this is a better interface for making these kinds of , uh , you know , lo clos local changes , then that 'd be fine , too . i do n't i have no idea . i think this is something that would need to be checked . yeah . professor b : ok . th - the other thing i had actually was , i i did n't realize this till today , but , uh , this is , uh , jose 's last day . grad e : yeah . phd h : is my last my last day . grad e : you 're not gon na be here tomorrow ? phd h : my my last meeting about meetings . grad e : oh , that 's right . tomorrow phd h : yeah . phd d : the last meeting meeting ? phd h : because , eh , i leave , eh , the next sunday . grad e : it 's off . phd f : mm - hmm . phd h : i will come back to home to spain . professor b : yeah . i d so i i jus phd f : mm - hmm . phd h : and i i would like to to to say thank you very much , eh , to all people in the group and at icsi , phd f : mm - hmm . grad e : yeah . it was good having you . phd a : yeah . phd h : because i i enjoyed @ @ very much , uh . and i 'm sorry by the result of overlapping , because , eh , i have n't good results , eh , yet but , eh , i i pretend { comment } to to continuing out to spain , eh , during the the following months , professor b : uh - huh . phd h : eh , because i have , eh , another ideas but , eh , i have n't enough time to to with six months it 's not enough to to to research , professor b : yeah . phd h : eh , and e i i mean , if , eh , the topic is , eh , so difficult , uh , in my opinion , there is n't professor b : yeah . maybe somebody else will come along and will be , uh , interested in working on it and could start off from where you are also , you know . they 'd make use of of what you 've done . phd h : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd h : yeah . but , eh , i i will try to recommend , eh , at , eh , the spanish government but , eh , the following @ @ scholarship , eh , eh , eh , will be here more time , because eh , i in my opinion is is better , eh , for us to to spend more time here and to work more time i i in a topic . professor b : yeah , it 's a very short time . phd h : no ? but , uh professor b : yeah . yeah . grad e : yeah , six months is hard . phd h : yeah . it is . grad e : i think a year is a lot better . phd h : yeah . professor b : yeah . phd h : it 's difficult . you e you have , eh you are lucky , and you you find a solution { comment } in in in some few tim uh , months , eh ? ok . but , eh , i think it 's not , eh , common . but , eh , anyway , thank you . thank you very much . eh , i i bring the chocolate , eh , to to tear , uh , with with you , postdoc c : nice . phd h : uh . i i hope if you need , eh , something , eh , from us in the future , i i will be at spain , to you help , uh . professor b : well . grad e : great . postdoc c : great . phd a : right . professor b : thank you , jose . postdoc c : thank you . phd h : and , thank you very much . phd f : have a good trip . professor b : yeah . postdoc c : yeah . phd f : keep in touch . phd h : thank you . professor b : yeah . ok . i guess , uh , unless somebody has something else , we 'll read read our digits grad e : digits ? professor b : and we 'll get our get our last bit of , uh , jose 's jose jose 's digit phd d : oops . grad e : are we gon na do them simultaneously or ? phd h : you eh professor b : uh , i 'm sorry ? phd h : ye - ye you prefer , eh , to eat , eh , chocolate , eh , at the coffee break , eh , at the ? or you prefer now , before after ? postdoc c : well , we have a time phd f : no , we prefer to keep it for ourselves . phd d : during postdoc c : well , we have a s a time time constraint . phd f : yeah , yeah . phd d : during digits . professor b : so keep it away from that end of the table . postdoc c : yeah . phd f : yeah . phd h : yeah . phd a : why is it that i can read your mind ? postdoc c : yeah . grad e : well , we 've got ta wait until after di after we take the mikes off . phd d : no , no . grad e : so are we gon na do digits simultaneously phd a : you this is our reward if we do our digi professor b : well ? yeah . phd d : yeah . grad e : or what ? phd d : simultaneous digit chocolate task . phd h : i i think , eh , it 's enough , eh , for more peopl for more people after . professor b : we 're gon na we 're gon na do digits at the same postdoc c : that 's nice . phd h : but , eh phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : oh , thanks , jose . phd h : to andreas , the idea is is good . s to eat here . professor b : well postdoc c : wow . very nice . phd a : oh , wow . professor b : tha - that 's that looks great . phd f : oh , yeah . th - it does n't it wo n't leave this room . professor b : alright , so in the interest of getting to the phd a : we could do digits while other people eat . phd d : yeah . phd a : so it 's background crunching . phd d : yeah . phd h : yeah . phd a : we do n't have background chewing . postdoc c : nice . phd h : is , eh , a another acoustic event . phd d : background crunch . yeah . phd a : no , we do n't have any data with background eating . phd d : yeah . phd a : i 'm serious . you professor b : she 's she 's serious . phd a : i am serious . grad e : it 's just the rest of the digits the rest of the digits are very clean , professor b : she is serious . phd a : well ? phd h : are you ? oh , they 're clean . phd d : yeah ! grad e : um , without a lot of background noise , phd a : and it you have to write down , like , while y what you 're what ch chocolate you 're eating grad e : so i 'm just not sure phd a : cuz they might make different sounds , like n nuts chocolate with nuts , chocolate without nuts . professor b : um phd d : crunchy frogs . phd f : chocolate adaptation . professor b : actually actually kind of careful cuz i have a strong allergy to nuts , so i have to sort of figure out one without th phd a : that w oh , yeah , they they might . professor b : it 's hard to hard to say . phd a : maybe those ? they 're so i do n't know . professor b : i do n't know . um phd a : this is you know , this is a different kind of speech , professor b : well phd h : take take several . phd a : looking at chocolates , deciding you know , it 's another style . professor b : yeah . i may i may hold off . but if i was eh , but maybe i 'll get some later . thanks . well well , why do n't we ? he he 's worried about a ticket . why do n't we do a simultaneous one ? simultaneous one ? phd a : and you laughed at me , too , f the first time i said that . grad e : remember to read the transcript number , please . phd f : right . professor b : i have to what ? phd d : oops . phd h : yeah . phd a : you laughed at me , too , the first time i sa said professor b : i did , phd a : you really should n't , uh , te professor b : and now i love it so much . grad e : ok , everyone ready ? phd a : you have to sort of , um jose , if you have n't done this , you have to plug your ears while you 're t talking professor b : w wait wait a minute wait a minute . w we want we want phd a : so that you do n't get confused , i guess . professor b : we want it synchronized . phd a : yeah . oh , you 've done this one before ? postdoc c : hey , you 've done this before . have n't you ? phd h : yeah . phd d : that 's phd a : together ? postdoc c : you 've read digits together with us , have n't you i mean , at the same time ? phd a : i 'm not we we oh , and you have n't done this either . postdoc c : oh , you have n't ! oh , ok . phd d : oh , yeah . phd a : i the first time is traumatic , but professor b : y yeah , bu postdoc c : oh , and the groupings are important , so yo you 're supposed to pause between the groupings . phd h : the grouping . professor b : yeah . phd h : yeah . professor b : ok . so , uh phd f : you mean that the the grouping is supposed to be synchronized ? professor b : no , no . grad e : yeah , sure . phd a : that 'd be good . professor b : synchronized digits . phd a : we - we 'll give everybody the same sheet phd f : it 's like a like a greek like a greek choir ? phd a : but they say different phd f : you know ? grad e : hey , what a good idea . phd f : like grad e : we could do the same sheet for everyone . phd f : yeah . grad e : have them all read them at once . phd a : well , different digits phd d : eh phd a : but same groupings . grad e : or or just same digits . phd a : so they would all be yeah . postdoc c : yeah . that 'd be good . grad e : see if anyone notices . professor b : there 's so many possibilities . postdoc c : and then then we can sing them next time . professor b : uh . ok , why do n't we go ? uh , one two three go ! postdoc c : ok . mmm ! professor b : and andreas has the last word . grad e : did you read it twice or what ? phd a : he 's try no , he 's trying to get good recognition performance . postdoc c : he had the h phd h : yeah . postdoc c : he had the the long form . phd h : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group agree on training and testing the digits corpus ? </s> phd f : it is against my head . professor b : yeah . um . yeah , we actually talked about this in the , uh , front - end meeting this morning , too . much the same thing , grad e : uh - huh . professor b : and and it was uh , i mean , there the point of interest to the group was primarily that , um , the , uh the system that we had that was based on h t k , that 's used by , you know , all the participants in aurora , was so much worse than the than the s r grad e : everybody . professor b : and the interesting thing is that even though , yes , it 's a digits task and that 's a relatively small number of words and there 's a bunch of digits that you train on , it 's just not as good as having a a l very large amount of data and training up a a a nice good big hmm . um , also you had the adaptation in the sri system , which we did n't have in this . um . so . um . </s>
<s> what changes did the group say were needed ? </s> phd f : right . uh , but i 'm not so much worried about the adaptation , actually , than than the , um , um the , uh , vtl estimation . grad e : right . phd f : if you have only one utterance per speaker you might actually screw up on estimating the the warping , uh , factor . so , um grad e : i strongly suspect that they have more speakers than we do . so , uh phd f : right . but it 's not the amount of speakers , it 's the num it 's the amount of data per speaker . grad e : right . so we we could probably do an extraction that was roughly equivalent . phd f : right . right . so grad e : so , although i i sort of know how to run it , there are a little a f few details here and there that i 'll have to dig out . phd f : ok . the key so th the system actually extracts the speaker id from the waveform names . grad e : right . i saw that . phd f : and there 's a there 's a script and that is actually all in one script . so there 's this one script that parses waveform names and extracts things like the , um , speaker , uh , id or something that can stand in as a speaker id . so , we might have to modify that script to recognize the , um , speakers , um , in the in the , uh , um , ti - digits database . grad e : right . right . and that , uh </s>
<s> what would future experiments entail ? </s> grad e : digits . adaptation . professor b : uh , adaptation , non - adaptation , um , factor of two , um oh , yeah . i know what i was go w phd f : what k u by the way , wh what factor of two did you ? professor b : oh , no , no . phd f : i mean professor b : it 's tha that that we were saying , you know , well is how much worse is far than near , you know . phd f : oh , th ok . professor b : and i mean it depends on which one you 're looking at , phd f : that factor of two . professor b : but for the everybody , it 's little under a factor or two . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : yeah . i i know what i was thinking was that maybe , uh , i i we could actually t t try at least looking at , uh , some of the the large vocabulary speech from a far microphone , at least from the good one . phd f : mm - hmm . professor b : i mean , before i thought we 'd get , you know , a hundred and fifty percent error or something , but if if , uh if we 're getting thirty - five , forty percent or something , u um </s>
<s> what was the current technique and its limitations ? </s> phd a : cuz there 's no adaptation yet . so there 's i think there 's some issues about u we probably want to adapt at least the foreground speaker . but , i guess andreas tried adapting both the foreground and a background generic speaker , and that 's actually a little bit of a f funky model . like , it gives you some weird alignments , just because often the background speakers match better to the foreground than the foreground speaker . phd f : oh phd d : yeah . phd a : so there 's some things there , especially when you get lots of the same words , uh , occurring in the phd f : well , the i i think you can do better by uh , cloning so we have a reject phone . and you and what we wanted to try with you know , once we have this paper written and have a little more time , uh , t cloning that reject model and then one copy of it would be adapted to the foreground speaker to capture the rejects in the foreground , like fragments and stuff , and the other copy would be adapted to the background speaker . phd a : right . i mean , in general we actually phd f : and phd a : right now the words like partial words are reject models and you normally allow those to match to any word . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : but then the background speech was also a reject model , and so this constraint of not allowing rejects in between you know , it needs to differentiate between the two . so just sort of working through a bunch of debugging kinds of issues . phd f : right . phd a : and another one is turns , like people starting with `` well i think `` and someone else is `` well how about `` . so the word `` well `` is in this in this segment multiple times , and as soon as it occurs usually the aligner will try to align it to the first person who says it . but then that constraint of sort of uh , proximity constraint will push it over to the person who really said it in general . grad e : is the proximity constraint a hard constraint , or did you do some sort of probabilistic weighting distance , or ? phd f : we we did n't phd a : right now it 's a kluge . phd f : no . we w ok . we it 's straightforward to actually just have a a penalty that does n't completely disallows it but discourages it . but , um , we just did n't have time to play with , you know , tuning yet another yet another parameter . grad e : the ve level . yeah . phd a : yeah . phd f : and really the reason we ca n't do it is just that we do n't have a we do n't have ground truth for these . so , we would need a hand - marked , um , word - level alignments or at least sort of the boundaries of the speech betw you know , between the speakers . um , and then use that as a reference and tune the parameters of the of the model , uh , to op to get the best performance . phd a : yeah . professor b : g given i i mean , i wa i wa i was gon na ask you anyway , uh , how you assessed that things were better . phd f : mm - hmm . phd a : i looked at them . i spent two days um , in waves oh , it was painful because the thing is , you know the alignments share a lot in common , so and you 're yo you 're looking at these segments where there 's a lot of speech . i mean , a lot of them have a lot of words . not by every speaker professor b : yeah . phd a : but by some speaker there 's a lot of words . no , not </s>
<s> what were the problems for transcribers ? </s> grad g : but you 're actually saying that certain , uh , speakers were mis mis - identified . postdoc c : yeah . so , with under um , uh , listening to the mixed channel , there were times when , as surprising as that is , i got adam 's voice confused with dan 's and vice versa not for long utterances , phd a : yeah . postdoc c : but jus just a couple of places , professor b : mm - hmm . postdoc c : and embedde embedded in overlaps . the other thing that was w interesting to me was that i picked up a lot of , um , backchannels which were hidden in the mixed signal , phd a : right . postdoc c : which , you know , i mean , you c not not too surprising . but the other thing that i i had n't thought about this , but i thou i wanted to raise this when you were uh , with respect to also a strategy which might help with the alignments potentially , but that 's when i was looking at these backchannels , they were turning up usually very often in w well , i wo n't say `` usually `` but anyway , very often , i picked them up in a channel w which was the person who had asked a question . s so , like , someone says `` an and have you done the so - and - so ? `` and then there would be backchannels , but it would be the person who asked the question . other people were n't really doing much backchannelling . and , you know , sometimes you have the yeah , uh - huh . </s>
<s> what did phd a say about overlaps ? </s> professor b : and tha and that 's what we were getting those numbers from . phd a : yes . tho - good the good numbers . professor b : right . phd a : the bad numbers were from the segments where there was overlap . professor b : well , we could start with the good ones . phd a : yeah . professor b : but anyway so i think that we should try it once with the same conditions that were used to create those , and in those same segments just use one of the p z phd a : right . so we we can do that . yeah . professor b : and then , you know , i mean , the thing is if we were getting , uh what , thirty - five , forty percent , something like that on on that particular set , uh , does it go to seventy or eighty ? </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : hello . marketing : project manager : good morning . user interface : good morning . industrial designer : morning . marketing : good morning . project manager : uh before i start with the with the meeting i have a few things to tell you about the the setting we 're in , uh because we 're uh being watched by uh big brother . so um marketing : by big brother ? project manager : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : marketing : okay . project manager : this uh these are cameras , so are these . this thing uh that looks like a pie , marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : are actually all microphones . marketing : yeah . okay . project manager : so you must be careful with uh with uh all this . and uh as i can see you uh you have placed your laptops uh exactly on the place where it must be . and that has to do with the camera settings , so we do n't have our uh laptops in front of the cameras . marketing : of our faces . project manager : and indeed . so they can see our faces . marketing : project manager : okay . marketing : project manager : welcome at the kick-off meeting . my name is uh danny wolfs . uh this is the agenda for today . uh first a little opening . uh i will introduce myself , uh and uh i think it 's very uh good to introduce uh yourself . uh then uh a little bit of acquaintance , acquaintance to uh to to ourselves . so uh we get to know each other . uh that will be done uh with a tool training from the he these two uh smart boards . then the project plan . what we 're going to do , and how we 're going to do it . uh and discussion about that and a little closing at the end . okay uh , my name is uh danny wolfs . i 'm the project manager . what 's your name ? user interface : i 'm juergen toffs . i 'm the user interface designer . project manager : user interface , okay . industrial designer : hi , my name 's uh . i 'm the industrial designer . project manager : industrial , yes . marketing : i 'm uh tim . um my function is the marketing expert . project manager : okay , thank you . first a little about the project aim . uh the the the aim is to make a new remote control . uh maybe you have read uh read the website . it 's a very uh , yeah , very uh ambitious uh company . they uh they wan na do something else . i w uh there must be a new remote control . uh first of all uh it must be original , uh and trendy . that 's two things really uh close to each other . but at the same time uh user-friendly . and they have uh yeah , that 's uh very important uh for them . uh there are three stages . there is a functional design . so uh what are we going uh to uh to do ? what are we going to uh uh make f uh kind of functions in the remote ? and why are we going to do it ? then the conceptual design . how are going to do it ? and that 's uh really global . uh because at the detailed design , how , part two , uh we go uh to dig in uh really about how the the te the technical of if it 's uh it 's possible technical-wise . marketing : project manager : uh each stage is uh uh is broken up in two uh two stages , individual work and a meeting . so it 's uh it 's very straightforward . okay , the tool training . we have two smart boards . this one is for the presentations , the powerpoint presentations or the word presentation of whatever you uh you had . uh and this is uh only for uh drawing . so uh we uh must let it uh stand on this uh this programme . this is called a smart board marketing : speaks for itself . project manager : thing uh yeah , it speaks for itself . um and as you uh may have heard , the documents in the shared folder uh can be uh showed on this screen . not in y the the my documents . so if you wan na show something , put it in the shared folder . uh this uh is very straightforward , with the save , the print , the undo , the blank , the select , the pen . well , i do n't uh gon na explain it all , marketing : project manager : because i think you know uh how it works . um we must not forget uh everything we draw on here , uh all must be saved . we we may not delete anything . so uh if you have uh drawn something , save it . never delete it . that 's a very important uh thing . marketing : project manager : okay . uh little uh little kinda exercise to uh know each other . user interface : marketing : project manager : at uh the white board on the left . every uh every one of us uh must draw our favourite animal , industrial designer : project manager : and uh tell uh tell us why we uh had uh chosen that animal . uh important is that we use different colours , and uh different pen widths . widths . widths . marketing : i have a question . um this exercise , um did the company board tell you to do it , project manager : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : or uh did you just make it up yourself ? project manager : no no no . it 's uh it 's uh i i i must do it . marketing : it 's part of the introduction , project manager : yeah , yeah , yeah . 'cause we uh really do n't know each other , marketing : okay . project manager : and uh it 's kinda new . so getting used to each other , we can uh have a little fun then , before we uh dig in really to the hard stuff . marketing : okay . project manager : that kind of thing . would you start with drawing your uh favourite animal ? marketing : um , yeah . i do n't know really how it works . but maybe you can show us first ? project manager : okay , okay . yeah , okay . drawing goes with uh this thing . do not touch your hand on uh this little uh thingy here . that 's uh important . marketing : project manager : so hold it uh like this . user interface : marketing : you g you get electrocuted or project manager : yeah , kinda . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : so , um you must p p uh push a little uh good . because and uh wait uh wait a few seconds . it 's not uh fully real-time , so uh watch it . user interface : ach . project manager : oh yeah . well i 'm gon na paint in the red . user interface : ooph . project manager : that 's the background colour . marketing : user interface : project manager : well , undo . um the pen ? no . one minute please . industrial designer : project manager : yeah , that 's the one . well , five . okay . marketing : project manager : my favourite animal huh ? industrial designer : marketing : it 's like pictionary ? industrial designer : project manager : yeah , you can guess what it is . marketing : the the one who says it first gets a raise . project manager : may uh paint uh next . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : it 's a pork ? project manager : no , it 's not an orc . user interface : project manager : you do n't see it uh at the ears ? marketing : mm yeah , i have it at home . project manager : you have an orc at home ? user interface : very artistic . industrial designer : project manager : thank you . marketing : project manager : so it 's a cat . marketing : what 's it called ? project manager : simba . 'cause uh we have a cat at home and he 's called simba . 'cause he looks like the uh the the lion from the lion king . user interface : okay . industrial designer : marketing : miniature size ? project manager : so we uh found it kinda cool to uh name it after a lion . marketing : okay . project manager : he 's happy with us , so uh he 's smiling . user interface : wow . he does have body uh huh . project manager : no , only the face . because we have we have twen twenty five minutes . so we uh marketing : okay . we have to speed up . project manager : yeah . marketing : remember you use uh different colours , and different pen widths . project manager : yeah . okay , who wants to go next ? marketing : i okay . project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : project manager : so choose a colour , choose a pen width and draw a user interface : you do n't have to change the colour and the pen width during uh the drawing . marketing : save it . project manager : yeah . user interface : or marketing : you have to save it . project manager : save it , okay . industrial designer : marketing : i 've done it . new ? 'kay . user interface : you have to draw uh push hard on the pen or uh marketing : mm uh not really . project manager : kind of firm touch . user interface : marketing : that one . user interface : oh . uh hmm . marketing : yeah ? okay . open . which one is it ? smart board ? project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . industrial designer : marketing : okay . and now ? okay . okay , thanks . 'kay , i 've speed up . 'kay , that 's fine . line width . industrial designer : by the way , why was your cat uh red ? project manager : because uh my cat is red uh at home . industrial designer : oh , okay . project manager : and i have red hair , so uh must be red . user interface : it 's a very bloody cat . industrial designer : oh , yeah , sure . user interface : it 's a frog . industrial designer : no , it 's a turtle . user interface : uh it 's an apple . industrial designer : marketing : it 's not an apple . industrial designer : must be a dog . user interface : a dog ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : hmm . colour . something like this . smaller . project manager : industrial designer : user interface : oh , it is a turtle . project manager : it is a turtle . why a turtle ? why ? tim ? marketing : um 'cause i liked teenage mutant hero turtles . project manager : you watched it a lot ? user interface : industrial designer : marketing : uh ? project manager : you watched it a lot ? user interface : it 's uh inside its shell . you 'll be uh finished sooner . marketing : no , it 's uh project manager : it 's a scared turtle . marketing : no no . it 's coming up . mm . uh . project manager : user interface : industrial designer : project manager : okay , tim . thank you . marketing : something like this . okay , you know user interface : industrial designer : marketing : very artistic . project manager : jurgen , you want to go next ? user interface : yes . okay . wha thank you . marketing : yeah ? here you go . user interface : yeah . um marketing : industrial designer : user interface : how did it work ? project manager : format ? and then you have the the current colour , user interface : performance ? project manager : you can change . so no red or green . user interface : and a pen ? project manager : and uh line uh width . i had five . marketing : project manager : tim had uh tim , what kinda line width did you have ? user interface : um marketing : uh the big lines were like nine . project manager : industrial designer : project manager : okay . it 's a dog . user interface : well , very good . i just uh thought i 'd pick the easiest one . industrial designer : uh . project manager : okay . why a dog ? you have a dog at home ? user interface : well , we had a dog , a few years ago . project manager : had a dog ? marketing : uh , it 's p project manager : yeah ? user interface : and and it , yeah , when it died we did n't get a new one or something . but uh marketing : it 's pretty good uh industrial designer : project manager : you have an artistic uh inner middle . marketing : an artist . project manager : user interface : uh a graphical user designer , so project manager : marketing : think you uh picked the wrong uh function . wrong job . project manager : user interface : oh . marketing : user interface : no . can work together . ah colour . project manager : so i think you can see it 's real uh really a easy programme to use . not difficult at all . user interface : well , project manager : okay , user interface : it 's okay . project manager : thank you . industrial designer : marketing : that 's enough , user interface : marketing : thanks . project manager : janus ? the last one ? industrial designer : yeah , sure . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : uh thanks . marketing : i wonder . project manager : yeah . after a cat , a turtle and a dog . industrial designer : marketing : project manager : i think he 's gon na draw an elephant . user interface : industrial designer : i figure i should do something like that , project manager : industrial designer : but i 'm gon na do something much more difficult . marketing : project manager : uh-oh . user interface : uh-oh . oh , he is the artistic design . project manager : industrial designer : marketing : i 'm gon na design a remote uh remote control animal . user interface : remote control animal . industrial designer : exactly . uh project manager : marketing : oh . project manager : marketing : sorry . user interface : well with the interface , it might be easier to ha to draw here and display there uh . marketing : yeah . that that might be easier . but at the other hand , uh a pen like that is easy to hold in your hand , and i think it 's easier to draw . project manager : better to draw with a with marketing : yeah . with a pen than with a mouse mouse . user interface : than on the , with project manager : user interface : yeah , i m i mean like uh like on here , drawing drawing uh . and then displaying on screen , but industrial designer : marketing : mouth . oh , okay . yeah . w with this paper it 's too mu too expensive . project manager : but what is he uh ? user interface : too expensive , yeah . project manager : is it a rabbit ? industrial designer : yes . project manager : do you have a rabbit at home ? marketing : it 's a rabbit with uh broken legs ? user interface : a green rabbit . industrial designer : no . project manager : is it a white rabbit f it 's the white rabbit from the matrix . industrial designer : yeah , exactly . project manager : okay , then yeah . user interface : there , the g white green rabbit . he 's a little bit stoned there . industrial designer : uh i figured this is a pretty b good impression of a rabbit . marketing : yeah . it will do . industrial designer : uh uh uh well . project manager : okay . finishing touch and then we 're going further . user interface : marketing : project manager ? uh project manager : yeah ? industrial designer : where does the pen go ? just uh marketing : have you been uh counting the time ? project manager : yeah , a little . marketing : okay . let 's go on then . project manager : well , i think the dog is the the most uh artistic . industrial designer : uh i figured the rabbit was actually the most uh impressive . marketing : project manager : do n't choose for youself . industrial designer : oh , sorry . project manager : that 's selfish . okay , now we 're gon na dig into the to the serious stuff . marketing : it 's pretty abstract . project manager : uh the selling price for the remote will be uh twenty five euro , and the production cost uh may not be more than uh twenty and a half euro . so uh from my point of view , i do n't think it 's uh gon na be very uh very high tech , high definition , uh ultra modern uh kinda remote , for twelve uh fift uh twelve and a half euro . marketing : project manager : uh the profit we must make with uh the new remote is uh fifty million euro . so that 's a lot . we have to sell uh a lot of uh user interface : yeah , how much is it ? marketing : like how much ? user interface : hundred million uh remotes or something ? project manager : uh i think uh w when the selling price is twenty five , uh uh you got two million , two million remotes . user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : twenty million . two million , oh yeah , two million . yeah . project manager : but our marketing range is uh , market range is international . so we have uh virtually the whole world we can sell uh we can sell our r remotes to . at least that uh countries which have uh a television . marketing : yeah . project manager : um so now it 's time uh for us to uh going uh to discuss a little uh things . you can think about uh experience with a remote control uh yourself , at home . what you think might be uh a useful uh new feature . what uh what can distinguish our new trendy remote control from all the others . um so uh let 's uh let 's uh discuss a little . i 'm gon na join you at the table . well what what 's the most uh important thing at a remote control ? user interface : um well i think the most important thing of a remote control is that you can switch channels . and my opinion is you should keep it as basic as possible . uh project manager : okay . so not a not a remote control who uh uh which can uh can be used for television and a d_v_d_ and radio and or just only marketing : yeah . i think so . uh but i have some points . can i show them on the on the big screen ? maybe ? project manager : if you have them on uh i can uh marketing : yeah . yeah , i can find uh . project manager : okay . oh , in case you want it this is a dead kind of fly . between the the the , yeah , the the uh user interface : marketing : screen ? project manager : yeah , be the screens . marketing : okay . user interface : is it possible to open pen drawings in this uh on this screen ? project manager : no no no . only all the drawings go there , at the left uh user interface : uh but um which the ones we made on the project manager : oh , that pen drawings . uh no , i think uh when it is uh in word and you have saved it in the shared documents folder , you can show it there . user interface : oh , only in word , project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : okay , i have some uh points from marketing point of view . project manager : yeah . marketing : um just the standard thing li things like uh intuitive , uh small , fairly cheap . uh it 's pretty cheap , twenty five euros . uh brand independent . um i think , it does n't have to matter uh which brand your tv or other thing is . um project manager : yeah . okay . five minutes . marketing : five minutes ? project manager : yeah . marketing : okay , i 'll wrap it up quickly . um i personally think it has to be multi-purpose . project manager : yeah . marketing : uh most of the remote c uh remote controls are uh just for one purpose . project manager : yeah . marketing : and uh by making it multi-purpose , it uh has a new feature , adds a new feature to the market , and distinguish from uh from current products . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um maybe some other technology than infrared . uh i rather find it very annoying um , like when someone is standing in front of the tv then you ca n't switch it . um think about um sending it over radio waves or bluetooth . project manager : okay . okay . marketing : that might be a little bit uh expensive . um and something like an lcd screen . user interface : for what purpose ? marketing : um uh like i said here um maybe it 's easy . it 's nice as an added feature feature , that um , when you 're on a certain channel , you can see on the lcd screen uh what programmes are coming up or project manager : okay . so it be uh a multi-purpose uh very technically uh high uh marketing : from my point of view , yeah . project manager : remote ? yeah , it must be really uh innovative , technical-wise ? marketing : yeah , it has to be uh yeah , our company is very uh good in making new innovative uh things . project manager : yeah . so yeah , i i agree with you . user interface : we marketing : so i i i i project manager : so we must focus on things who are really uh really add something to uh to marketing : to the current market . project manager : yeah . marketing : look , you got some cheap uh remote controls there . they just uh yeah , you got a dozen of 'em . but when you enter a new market with a remote control and project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh wan na gain market share project manager : yeah . marketing : you have to do something special , i think . project manager : yeah . but we have to keep an eye that it 's uh at the beginning of such a project , it 's it 's it 's very uh cool to talk about , well , this would be cool , that would be cool . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh but we must not uh lose uh sight of the the user uh uh friendly uh marketing : yeah , of course . user interface : and and the price . marketing : but it 's but but this is just from marketing uh aspect . project manager : yeah okay . yeah . okay . marketing : i do n't know anything about user interface or design . user interface : okay . project manager : and that 's because we have him . industrial designer : and and him . user interface : and him . marketing : project manager : okay , uh next meeting will start in thirty minutes . so uh you uh will have uh individual actions where i presume uh will be some feedback , uh via the m the mail . um the the the industrial uh designer has to uh look at the working design . uh the user interface designer has to look at the technical functions . so that 's the thing we uh discussed . user interface : yeah . um one thing uh , project manager : yeah ? user interface : we must first agree on uh what we 're going to m going to make . do we are we going to use um it it for multiple systems ? or uh we should have some agreement on that before we project manager : okay . um wha marketing : mm uh i i do n't think we have to be , we have to agree on that . uh industrial designer : i figure we could get back to it on the next meeting actually . marketing : i think th that 's a pha yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : that 's a phase further . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : ju just uh make some mock-ups , some some general ideas . user interface : ah okay . marketing : and and then we can plan yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : we can plan further , i think . project manager : yeah . but maybe , because uh you are working on the user requirements , you are working on the technical functions , we uh must uh have a little or kinda uh uh uh how do you call it ? uh user interface : consensus on the , what we 're gon na do . project manager : uh a little plan on on what we 're going to do . so you do n't uh uh come up with the user requirements who do n't fit the the the the technical functions at all . some basic things we co we want to going to do . uh i think that 's well uh yeah . will come in handy . marketing : mm yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i do n't know . you decide . project manager : okay . marketing : you 're the project manager . project manager : w he says user interface : if the technical functions have to be designed , i i 've got ta know for what kind of machines they will be . project manager : yeah . user interface : or do we use it a text screen ? or uh will it be with uh with bluetooth or project manager : well , th that 's that 's really a step further . but if you say uh is it uh uh one way or multi-purpose , that 's a user interface : okay . mm-hmm . marketing : uh tha that 's a same step further . industrial designer : yeah , actually it is . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : then looking at individual components , so that 's actually a f step further . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : like we all have a list of uh things that has to b that have to be in it , or how it has to be like . and then in the next meeting we decide project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , we can take it from there . marketing : w what it 's gon na be . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , i agree uh , we can take it from there . marketing : a and then you s then you can delete uh industrial designer : or edit . marketing : the o the obsolete uh details . project manager : okay . so uh marketing : i think . project manager : each individually i individually uh must think on what 's uh at uh his point of view is the most important . and uh then we 're going to fit uh all the pieces together the next meeting . marketing : yeah . project manager : i must finish off now , marketing : yeah . project manager : so it 's over . you uh will receive specific specific instructions uh by your personal coach . and i see you in uh thirty minutes . thank you . user interface : okay . industrial designer : okay , cheers . user interface : sorry . project manager : be careful . marketing : damn . success ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about financial targets of the new remote control project . </s> project manager : uh the selling price for the remote will be uh twenty five euro , and the production cost uh may not be more than uh twenty and a half euro . so uh from my point of view , i do n't think it 's uh gon na be very uh very high tech , high definition , uh ultra modern uh kinda remote , for twelve uh fift uh twelve and a half euro . marketing : project manager : uh the profit we must make with uh the new remote is uh fifty million euro . so that 's a lot . we have to sell uh a lot of uh user interface : yeah , how much is it ? marketing : like how much ? user interface : hundred million uh remotes or something ? project manager : uh i think uh w when the selling price is twenty five , uh uh you got two million , two million remotes . user interface : oh yeah . industrial designer : twenty million . two million , oh yeah , two million . yeah . project manager : but our marketing range is uh , market range is international . so we have uh virtually the whole world we can sell uh we can sell our r remotes to . at least that uh countries which have uh a television . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about new remote control features ? </s> project manager : um so now it 's time uh for us to uh going uh to discuss a little uh things . you can think about uh experience with a remote control uh yourself , at home . what you think might be uh a useful uh new feature . what uh what can distinguish our new trendy remote control from all the others . um so uh let 's uh let 's uh discuss a little . i 'm gon na join you at the table . well what what 's the most uh important thing at a remote control ? user interface : um well i think the most important thing of a remote control is that you can switch channels . and my opinion is you should keep it as basic as possible . uh project manager : okay . so not a not a remote control who uh uh which can uh can be used for television and a d_v_d_ and radio and or just only marketing : yeah . i think so . uh but i have some points . can i show them on the on the big screen ? maybe ? project manager : if you have them on uh i can uh marketing : yeah . yeah , i can find uh . project manager : okay . oh , in case you want it this is a dead kind of fly . between the the the , yeah , the the uh user interface : marketing : screen ? project manager : yeah , be the screens . marketing : okay . user interface : is it possible to open pen drawings in this uh on this screen ? project manager : no no no . only all the drawings go there , at the left uh user interface : uh but um which the ones we made on the project manager : oh , that pen drawings . uh no , i think uh when it is uh in word and you have saved it in the shared documents folder , you can show it there . user interface : oh , only in word , project manager : yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : okay , i have some uh points from marketing point of view . project manager : yeah . marketing : um just the standard thing li things like uh intuitive , uh small , fairly cheap . uh it 's pretty cheap , twenty five euros . uh brand independent . um i think , it does n't have to matter uh which brand your tv or other thing is . um project manager : yeah . okay . five minutes . marketing : five minutes ? project manager : yeah . marketing : okay , i 'll wrap it up quickly . um i personally think it has to be multi-purpose . project manager : yeah . marketing : uh most of the remote c uh remote controls are uh just for one purpose . project manager : yeah . marketing : and uh by making it multi-purpose , it uh has a new feature , adds a new feature to the market , and distinguish from uh from current products . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um maybe some other technology than infrared . uh i rather find it very annoying um , like when someone is standing in front of the tv then you ca n't switch it . um think about um sending it over radio waves or bluetooth . project manager : okay . okay . marketing : that might be a little bit uh expensive . um and something like an lcd screen . user interface : for what purpose ? marketing : um uh like i said here um maybe it 's easy . it 's nice as an added feature feature , that um , when you 're on a certain channel , you can see on the lcd screen uh what programmes are coming up or project manager : okay . so it be uh a multi-purpose uh very technically uh high uh marketing : from my point of view , yeah . project manager : remote ? yeah , it must be really uh innovative , technical-wise ? marketing : yeah , it has to be uh yeah , our company is very uh good in making new innovative uh things . project manager : yeah . so yeah , i i agree with you . user interface : we marketing : so i i i i project manager : so we must focus on things who are really uh really add something to uh to marketing : to the current market . project manager : yeah . marketing : look , you got some cheap uh remote controls there . they just uh yeah , you got a dozen of 'em . but when you enter a new market with a remote control and project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh wan na gain market share project manager : yeah . marketing : you have to do something special , i think . project manager : yeah . but we have to keep an eye that it 's uh at the beginning of such a project , it 's it 's it 's very uh cool to talk about , well , this would be cool , that would be cool . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh but we must not uh lose uh sight of the the user uh uh friendly uh marketing : yeah , of course . user interface : and and the price . </s>
<s> what did project manager think about new remote control features proposed by marketing ? </s> marketing : okay , i have some uh points from marketing point of view . project manager : yeah . marketing : um just the standard thing li things like uh intuitive , uh small , fairly cheap . uh it 's pretty cheap , twenty five euros . uh brand independent . um i think , it does n't have to matter uh which brand your tv or other thing is . um project manager : yeah . okay . five minutes . marketing : five minutes ? project manager : yeah . marketing : okay , i 'll wrap it up quickly . um i personally think it has to be multi-purpose . project manager : yeah . marketing : uh most of the remote c uh remote controls are uh just for one purpose . project manager : yeah . marketing : and uh by making it multi-purpose , it uh has a new feature , adds a new feature to the market , and distinguish from uh from current products . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um maybe some other technology than infrared . uh i rather find it very annoying um , like when someone is standing in front of the tv then you ca n't switch it . um think about um sending it over radio waves or bluetooth . project manager : okay . okay . marketing : that might be a little bit uh expensive . um and something like an lcd screen . user interface : for what purpose ? marketing : um uh like i said here um maybe it 's easy . it 's nice as an added feature feature , that um , when you 're on a certain channel , you can see on the lcd screen uh what programmes are coming up or project manager : okay . so it be uh a multi-purpose uh very technically uh high uh marketing : from my point of view , yeah . project manager : remote ? yeah , it must be really uh innovative , technical-wise ? marketing : yeah , it has to be uh yeah , our company is very uh good in making new innovative uh things . project manager : yeah . so yeah , i i agree with you . user interface : we marketing : so i i i i project manager : so we must focus on things who are really uh really add something to uh to marketing : to the current market . project manager : yeah . marketing : look , you got some cheap uh remote controls there . they just uh yeah , you got a dozen of 'em . but when you enter a new market with a remote control and project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : uh wan na gain market share project manager : yeah . marketing : you have to do something special , i think . project manager : yeah . but we have to keep an eye that it 's uh at the beginning of such a project , it 's it 's it 's very uh cool to talk about , well , this would be cool , that would be cool . marketing : yeah . project manager : uh but we must not uh lose uh sight of the the user uh uh friendly uh marketing : yeah , of course . user interface : and and the price . marketing : but it 's but but this is just from marketing uh aspect . project manager : yeah okay . yeah . okay . marketing : i do n't know anything about user interface or design . </s>
<s> what did marketing recommend to do and why when discussing new useful features of the new remote control ? </s> marketing : okay , i 'll wrap it up quickly . um i personally think it has to be multi-purpose . project manager : yeah . marketing : uh most of the remote c uh remote controls are uh just for one purpose . project manager : yeah . marketing : and uh by making it multi-purpose , it uh has a new feature , adds a new feature to the market , and distinguish from uh from current products . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : um maybe some other technology than infrared . uh i rather find it very annoying um , like when someone is standing in front of the tv then you ca n't switch it . um think about um sending it over radio waves or bluetooth . project manager : okay . okay . marketing : that might be a little bit uh expensive . um and something like an lcd screen . user interface : for what purpose ? </s>
<s> what did the group plan to discuss for the next meeting ? </s> project manager : okay , uh next meeting will start in thirty minutes . so uh you uh will have uh individual actions where i presume uh will be some feedback , uh via the m the mail . um the the the industrial uh designer has to uh look at the working design . uh the user interface designer has to look at the technical functions . so that 's the thing we uh discussed . user interface : yeah . um one thing uh , project manager : yeah ? user interface : we must first agree on uh what we 're going to m going to make . do we are we going to use um it it for multiple systems ? or uh we should have some agreement on that before we project manager : okay . um wha marketing : mm uh i i do n't think we have to be , we have to agree on that . uh industrial designer : i figure we could get back to it on the next meeting actually . marketing : i think th that 's a pha yeah . user interface : okay . marketing : that 's a phase further . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : ju just uh make some mock-ups , some some general ideas . user interface : ah okay . marketing : and and then we can plan yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : we can plan further , i think . project manager : yeah . but maybe , because uh you are working on the user requirements , you are working on the technical functions , we uh must uh have a little or kinda uh uh uh how do you call it ? uh user interface : consensus on the , what we 're gon na do . project manager : uh a little plan on on what we 're going to do . so you do n't uh uh come up with the user requirements who do n't fit the the the the technical functions at all . some basic things we co we want to going to do . uh i think that 's well uh yeah . will come in handy . marketing : mm yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : i do n't know . you decide . project manager : okay . marketing : you 're the project manager . project manager : w he says user interface : if the technical functions have to be designed , i i 've got ta know for what kind of machines they will be . project manager : yeah . user interface : or do we use it a text screen ? or uh will it be with uh with bluetooth or project manager : well , th that 's that 's really a step further . but if you say uh is it uh uh one way or multi-purpose , that 's a user interface : okay . mm-hmm . marketing : uh tha that 's a same step further . industrial designer : yeah , actually it is . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : then looking at individual components , so that 's actually a f step further . marketing : yeah . project manager : yeah . marketing : like we all have a list of uh things that has to b that have to be in it , or how it has to be like . and then in the next meeting we decide project manager : yeah . industrial designer : yeah , we can take it from there . marketing : w what it 's gon na be . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah , i agree uh , we can take it from there . marketing : a and then you s then you can delete uh industrial designer : or edit . marketing : the o the obsolete uh details . project manager : okay . so uh marketing : i think . project manager : each individually i individually uh must think on what 's uh at uh his point of view is the most important . and uh then we 're going to fit uh all the pieces together the next meeting . marketing : yeah . project manager : i must finish off now , marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : afternoon guys . it 's gon na be . marketing : rock and roll . project manager : oh . 'kay . marketing : so do we need to re-train mike on how to put his mic on ? project manager : we may do . industrial designer : think s marketing : okay , can he get it all by himself this time ? project manager : i dunno , i 'm feeling like a big boy . industrial designer : mm . pro probably not , 'cause he 's 's been listening to too much . marketing : so industrial designer : he 's getting retarded . yay . marketing : i believe i can fly . user interface : alright well we got some exciting stuff for you guys . industrial designer : or not . user interface : or not . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : just what i needed was something exciting . remember , i 'm an old man . industrial designer : project manager : 'kay , ready to go ? user interface : all ready . project manager : 'kay so we 've got our conceptual design meeting . industrial designer : apparently i 'm old as well . project manager : hopefully we 've all got exciting ideas now . marketing : thirty 's really young , eh ? user interface : we do . project manager : uh k exciting ideas . 'kay so here 's our agenda our agenda . um industrial designer : project manager : i 'm gon na open . i 'm gon na talk for a bit about what we 're gon na do . i 'm gon na take some notes . we 're gon na all do a presentation , and then hopefully we 're gon na make some decisions now . yep . well when i say hopefully , we have to . so user interface : alright . project manager : i 'm gon na let you guys talk before we make decisions . and does anyone really want to go first ? user interface : i guess i 'll go first . industrial designer : project manager : you p two ? user interface : yeah . project manager : what 's user interface : component , i think . yeah . project manager : components design . user interface : yep that 's it . industrial designer : presented by name . user interface : my name is . project manager : your name is name ? marketing : jose he man is . user interface : my name is name . project manager : huh hi name . industrial designer : my name is inigo montoya . project manager : industrial designer : you killed my father . user interface : sorry i did this in a bit of a rush . industrial designer : prepare to die . marketing : n name . project manager : right . user interface : so so here 's a look inside your really old-looking remote control . um you 've got a printed a printed uh circuit board here , and you 've got all these buttons which kinda press down little rubber nubbies into these little holes that activate marketing : project manager : we 've all broke a remote control ri um s yeah . user interface : yeah we 've all broken a remote control . industrial designer : marketing : i 've user interface : so you 've also got um you 've got your chip here , your batteries here , and some sorta electronics . um marketing : i just love you tech guys , huh . industrial designer : yeah there 's a thingy and a dingy and project manager : you press this and it does th user interface : well marketing : yeah y do jabber user interface : so you 've got here 's here 's a transistor , and this amplifies your signal , industrial designer : user interface : um you 've got the l_e_d_ here on the end of the uh uh on the end of the printed circuit board . um you 've got a couple diodes here for i do n't know who and whatnot . project manager : i dunno who and whatnot . user interface : so exactly . so um we 've got a i in this in this uh drawing he uh in this example here , this is a eighteen pin um uh chip i dunno . marketing : p yeah . user interface : uh it 's two double a_ batteries . industrial designer : user interface : this is pretty standard remote . so here are options for our power sources . you can use a basic battery , which we 've already discussed , um th our tech department also said we have the option of doing some kind of hand dynamo where maybe you crank it or something like that . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : i wan na change that . user interface : i do n't know if that 's really marketing : i i got ta i got ta flashlight , and uh user interface : i do n't know we got some qu crazy guys down there in that department so industrial designer : project manager : okay . user interface : you shake it . marketing : yeah but it 's interesting 'cause you shake it like this . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : like this . user interface : so that 's the next bullet is the um the kinetic provision of energy , marketing : and that 's on the camera . industrial designer : user interface : so it 's like that flashlight where you have to shake it . marketing : yeah . project manager : 'kay . user interface : uh we 've got solar cells , which i do n't think is a very good idea because um you could not use your remote at night which does n't make a lot of sense . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : and finally we 've got our cradle o our power cradle idea . project manager : okay so we basically have battery versus cradle here ? user interface : m battery versus cradle i think is yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i like the kinetic . project manager : so we have battery versus cradle marketing : i g i i figured you would . yes . yeah . user interface : it could be fun . project manager : it 's actually a novel thing because you could sell it a as a novelty , just to be actually serious for a minute here , user interface : yeah . project manager : you could user interface : well it is it is more uh i mean it is more eco-friendly than the than the cradle 'cause you 're still using power off the grid with the cradle . so um project manager : mm . hmm . user interface : our case design . we have uh choices in materials and choices in the general shapes that we can do . our material choices are a plastic latex um ty or plastic , a rubber latex type thing , uh wood , or titanium . if we go with titanium we 're gon na be uh limited in the amount of shapes we can do because it 's tough to shape the titanium , and uh yeah pers project manager : wood wood would ge would give us a little bit of a marketing niche , would n't it . user interface : i think wood i marketing : it it it user interface : i i ca n't see anybody wanting to use a wooden remote , it 's just anti-technology really , you know . project manager : okay . hmm . marketing : uh uh to me in a marketing sense it 's not it 's not relative . we can we can o we can uh accentuate whatever whatever product you put in there we can find a way to accentuate it . user interface : right . project manager : okay . user interface : and what we may be able to do , and i think this might be the best option is to combine some a couple of these . um my recommendation personally would be to do some kind of a plastic inner shell with a like a rubber outer shell , to make it um to mak uh like a thick plastic inner shell and a t um kind of a to have that rubber outer shell to make it more durable , and also maybe i i think it feels a little better than the plastic . project manager : 'kay . do you get a good grip on the rubber ? yeah okay . user interface : yeah um marketing : and if you make it from that super rubber , when you drop it on the floor it can bounce right back up in your hand . user interface : yeah . marketing : you do n't even need to lean down to get it . user interface : the advantages of working with plastic and rubber is w we we 'll have a lot more um options just in terms of shape industrial designer : marketing : user interface : because you can extrude plastic in basically any shape you want . so um and then we can cover you know the breakable bits with rubber yeah so um project manager : okay . user interface : but basically these are curved and double-curved i i believe that the tech department , in their um in their message to me , that they were referring to the number of th curves in the bottom . i have no idea exactly what they 're talking about , project manager : okay . user interface : but that 's what they told me , uncurved , flat , curved , or double-curved . industrial designer : user interface : i would guess this like this pen would be kinda like a double-curved , where it 's curved on m m multiple axes , right ? i think curved means just curved in one axis and double-curved is curved in two axes project manager : okay . user interface : or surfaces . i have no idea . project manager : i think it might mean something like that sorta shape because a double curve rather than a marketing : mm-hmm yeah that 's yeah that 's what i see . project manager : yeah that 's what . user interface : oh okay oh like a wave , okay . marketing : yeah that 's what i see also . user interface : alright that makes sense okay . um okay , with the interface we have the following options , we can u we can use push buttons , we can use a scroll wheel with an integrated push button , and lcd display , or multiple scrolling wheels . um so these are all options that the user interface guy can uh has at his disposal to put together a user interface . project manager : okay . user interface : for electronics , we have these very technical um descriptions here . a simple chip , which is the least expensive , but i have no numbers to give you , project manager : user interface : a regular chip , which is like the medium porridge the medium expense uh project manager : d do we have actually any concept of what the difference is between a simple chip and an advanced chip ? user interface : yes the difference is , with a simple chip a simple chip will operate oh why does n't this scroll up ? previous previous , okay . a simple chip is required to operate push buttons . project manager : okay . user interface : um an advanced chip is required to to operate um the lcd display , and it did n't say specifically , but i i have a hunch that a regular chip is gon na be the scroll wheel and the multiple scroll wheels . project manager : okay . user interface : so but yeah . project manager : yeah that makes sense . so presentation from i guess design would go best . next . user interface : that 's the end of my presentation . project manager : technical functions or interface concept ? user interface : i think industrial designer : oh interface concept . project manager : yeah that 's it . industrial designer : very long presentation . project manager : yes , but it has your name on it . user interface : project manager : user interface : industrial designer : well that does n't bo bode well for it for it tats as well . um so , somehow that thing 's too big , but um okay um our uh manufacturing division wanted the speech recognition . they say they could put it to work but um we do n't think so . user interface : no . industrial designer : no . it it it you 'll be you know be affected by the by the other speech and user interface : if the tv is working , yeah . project manager : user interface : that 's just i mean it 'll if somebody says up in the middle of a television show , it 's gon na change the channel . industrial designer : yeah and and fighting for the remote would not be fun anymore , user interface : so industrial designer : and i think that 's one of the things we wan na keep . project manager : but what if you actually had to press a button to make it recognize ? so if you pressed it and went , up ? industrial designer : that kinda would r d user interface : well then why do n't you just press the up button ? project manager : man yeah . industrial designer : yeah . that would kind of lose it . project manager : but if it 's just one thing with a button that you can just go up . user interface : even still there 's gon na be interf th there 's there still will be interference from the tv . marketing : that 's right . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : it might not be it might not be completely confusing , but i think you 'll still y it 's still marketing : user interface : i do n't think it 's practical at all . i think it 's a bad idea frankly . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah so um taking that away , our uh the the the rubber but rubber buttons are the more reliable project manager : you guys know your stuff . industrial designer : it 's the the ones that would al would allow us to to market our product as being you know less prone to damage and more resistant to things like spillage of liquids over it or you know mistreat misuses as it happens to remote controls . um as for the point that we making about losing it . well , we wan na small r remote control one side because uh we want it to be cool and uh designed , but um apparently um market shows that bigger s bigger um remotes get less lost , user interface : that i would believe . industrial designer : about marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : industrial designer : but um yeah i think we we need to compromise between those two and somehow we 'll do that . somehow . um so the the what i would propose is something more or less in the uh direction of what is to yo the right of that slide uh but without with a l a less complicated um design , so the numbers , the volume control , and channel control , and teletext access . uh the volume and channel control can just become those the the four button array as in if it was a round dial . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and um if you just think about it as the one to the right but with the numbers and the four buttons plus maybe a centre one with teletext . project manager : so we 're suggesting doing a sorta scroll wheel thing for the volume ? industrial designer : ye no it 's not user interface : that 's not a scroll wheel . industrial designer : i i it 's just four buttons that are on a cross , project manager : nah . oh okay okay . i see . industrial designer : so that you ba basically can control all of the important tasks from that alone . user interface : right . project manager : uh , okay . user interface : instead of play , stop , rewind , and fast forward there , that 's up , down , louder , and quieter . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah um yeah so i think we w we go for something mid-sized , so something looks good marketing : industrial designer : and uh is not too prone to get lost . that be it . project manager : 'kay . so on to y functional requirements or trend watching ? marketing : i dunno . user interface : trend watching has a later date there . marketing : trend watching i guess . trend watching i believe . project manager : forty six nineteen fifty seven . yep . marketing : see what it looks like . it 's been so long . project manager : industrial designer : . marketing : well i do n't know what to say . when i s when i see the when i see the product i i i i do n't wan na buy it . i see so many of 'em out there . there 's nothing about that product that makes me wan na choose that product over other products that are out there . user interface : are you talking about the picture ? that 's not our that 's not our b design , marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : that 's just a that 's just something he a a graphic he used to show you the layout of what the layout of the buttons might be like . marketing : okay . okay . okay 'cause 'cause right now i do n't have too much to say about how to market this product because we do n't have a product to market yet . and uh from from talking to mike is that we have we have uh we can market a more expensive product now . that 's what i understand so , project manager : upper management said yes . marketing : hello . project manager : uh e excuse that , that 's a bit of spam . marketing : and and so yeah i 'm a i 'm a little bit stuck right now in that what uh w what is it that i 'm gon na market ? uh without special or increased marketable features i do n't believe the product has a consumer demand . uh i like the idea of of the scroll makin there are so many people making these products at this price right now . what are we gon na do to make this one special and unique ? user interface : what 's special and unique about a scroll ? marketing : uh well i do n't project manager : it 's cool . marketing : yeah it 's i i just see it as different . i do n't say it 's specially mm i do n't say it 's special . uh i say that it 's different i what i 'm looking for as marketing is m give me something different . i give me a lower price , give me a higher price , give me some new technology , do n't give me the same thing that everybody else is putting out there on the shelf it 's f at the same price . i need something to market about this thing . we 're we 're a new firm . project manager : i 'd i 'd say though that we if we did make the decision to go with the cradle though , the then we have that as well , marketing : what i if when when we have project manager : but wi with a similar marketing : yeah when we when we have something like the cradle or or something give that 's as as a marketing standard i need something to market , to make this product unique . user interface : well right i think the two big th points that we have so far are the having the cradle and also having uh the um the actual design of the uh case itself having like this like rubber shell maybe with a plastic interior , having it look really nice um and also be really durable . marketing : mm 'kay . just remember when i made up this report i did n't have the information that we 're discussing here . project manager : mm . course . user interface : right yeah . yeah . marketing : and and so so uh yeah when we have a cradle , when we have some kind of design , so what i 'm saying is , from my perspective , i do n't have a product to market right now . um uh my personal preference is that we make some adjustment in the cost , either lower or develop an integrated new technol technology . that 's that is the next step , there 's technology and then there is technology , which we 're moving into the next phase . project manager : yeah 'cause that 's . industrial designer : marketing : and so uh we 're gon na have some new technology to enhance the marketability . yeah uh again i 'm not sold on the product because we do n't have a product in my opinion yet . so i need a product . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : well let 's get a product then . marketing : i need a product to market . and i just whatever product you guys put together , we 'll find a way to market it . tha that i 'm not concerned with . project manager : so now marketing : if you if you give me if you give me a cut-out of what everybody else has then i need to i need to find a lower cost . project manager : so our big questions here really are cradle or not cradle ? do we go basic or do we go for features ? uh d does anyone really wan na do anything with the scroll wheel or should we ditch that off-hand first ? user interface : well my question is what would the scroll wheel do ? function-wise , what does that do that project manager : oh but that was in your presentation so wh what would you imagine it doing ? marketing : yeah wh wh what 's the wh user interface : yeah . well it 's it 's just another way to do the exact same thing that the buttons do . project manager : mm 'kay industrial designer : but would we marketing : okay now what i see with the scroll wheel is everybody has buttons . so from a marketing standpoint i have i have another door to walk through when we have something that 's unique . project manager : yeah . marketing : if it creates something more complex or more expensive , then i do n't know if that makes it uh a marketing necessity . but again , from a marketing perspective i want as much new and different about this thing as possible because we 're we 're co it 's a very competitive market . project manager : what i understand about scroll wheels is they 're they 're quite expensive to to make . user interface : yeah . project manager : so i d user interface : th they are gon na be more expensive , but on the other hand , i mean , it i mean it is an alternative if if you think that 's gon na sell some some uh you know if if we 're gon na make up the extra cost by extra sales i think maybe it 's worth it to do it , but i mean i would just use if i was gon na do this i would just use the scroll wheel for s channels up and channels down . i do n't think volume or do you think volume would be industrial designer : i dunno . i 'll bet first in volume maybe . i dunno . user interface : no we can we can do multiple scroll wheels but project manager : well i d i like the idea of basically focusing the my personal preference is focusing the p the product on the idea of the uh the case the the uh dock to put it in to to charge it . we can target like environmentally friendly ideas , that sorta things . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : it s i m makes it easy to market , marketing : yeah yeah . project manager : it 's easy to differentiate the product , yeah so . marketing : i think it 's that 's right . i think so . project manager : and if we we keep the rest in a format that is durable because th th the whole product 's gon na need to be more durable th thus because you 're not going to be ditching it as often . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : it 's gon na need to be more expensive because of the cradle . so if we can market it in terms of that and yeah well marketing : yep . i think we got some exclusivity in that , you know , we got something that nobody else has right now , user interface : yeah . marketing : and and that means we can we can make some adjustments in the retail or wholesale price if we need to and it also can create it 's own demand from it 's uniqueness . project manager : so our big decision then is like how do we do um like we have to decide on the details and we have to decide on well n not exactly the details , but d do we have uh what type of casing ? i personally like what you were saying about the plastic with the rubber . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : user interface : i 'm thinking yeah something like kinda almost like these pens , you know , where there 's you have plastic bits and then it 's not really rubber but just kinda like a fused the plastic with rubber on the outside . project manager : okay . just a very thin sorta sheet for a a grip , sorta thing or for user interface : well no ma yeah maybe a bit more then th is on here but ju just as a kind of an inspiration , these pens i think are are kind of project manager : okay . so then if we d d do we want to do anything more basic with the uh more advanced with the user interface in terms of do we want to go for um buttons , or do we want if we 're ditching the scroll wheels do we want to go lcd ? do we want to give do we want to have anything else on it ? industrial designer : it 's only a tv . user interface : or from from my perspective i think lcd is a mistake because this is a universal remote and all you 're doing i mean it 's you 're not gon na get any information back from the television , so the only information you can display on this remote is what channel you just sent it at last and there 's just not a lot of information , you know , there . project manager : okay . user interface : it receives no information . so i i do n't see any reason for having an lcd 'cause it 's an increased cost . unless you can think of something interesting to do with it . marketing : yeah . yeah right now there 's right now there 's nothing coming out of the tv to receive , so you know unless technology changes and information starts coming out of the a cable box or something there 's no s i do n't see the , user interface : right . marketing : i do n't see the necessity of an lcd either . do n't see it . project manager : okay so the question is now i guess we need t to decide on well y you guys basically have to now go and figure out the details of this thing . marketing : project manager : so , what we need to know in terms of marketing and uh project management are are there any other questions that we need to answer now before you guys can go and build this ? marketing : project manager : what what overall things have we not decided on ? user interface : well we have to i think for me it 's still not exactly clear exactly what the inter user interface is gon na be . there 's the scroll wheel , in or out ? what do you guys like in the user interface ? project manager : i think maybe in terms of marketing , is that gon na make enough of a difference to justify the cost ? marketing : again . well i think it 's it 's the more uniqueness you can bring to the product , the easier it is , i believe , for me to market . uh again the push-buttons i i see are are everywhere . and so we can go with the same thing , but we 're gon na be com competing in a in a broader market than if we go with something unique . you know the other thing i thought about was you know , do we go to something like this ? make a remote that does n't look like a remote . it 's just another it 's just a an idea , and i do n't know user interface : well i dunno about like the flip-phone idea , because i think , as far as durability th it 's not a big well maybe when it 's closed . marketing : i mean what i see one of the things one of the things you brought up in an earlier presentation is , when you got children , their their stuff gets inside the circuitry , they get dirty , they get messy with drinks and stuff . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : this user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : and what i keep throwing out there i just keep throwing out ideas to try to make this thing look or act or in some way identify itself as unique or different . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : but you guys are the ones that have to c ultimately create the product within cost . project manager : yeah and i guess th th the question th th that you 're being asked right now is whether is the dock enough of a unique feature to be able to go out and sell that a a as a a very different product , or do we really need the scroll wheel as well ? marketing : oh okay project manager : because the scroll wheel comes at quite a cost . marketing : phew . user interface : yeah . marketing : i think you got ta g get into cost effectiveness . i think if you can have the base station with a with a locator , i think those are two very strong features , user interface : well marketing : if that 's something that can be integrated without a bunch of extra cost . user interface : the the locator 's gon na require a radio transmitter , which will marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's gon na n is that gon na need a better chip as well ? user interface : um we 're probably gon na have to go with a like a medium chip , s i would imagine . industrial designer : no it 's just different . user interface : but we i we will need a receiver , an antenna . marketing : integrated , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so it 's just uh i i think that 's user interface : it should be a really simple signal though so marketing : i know personally that would be a very attractive feature , is to have a uh have a button i can push to find my remote control . project manager : and it 's presumably gon na need a little speaker in it or something like that as well to beep . user interface : that 's true yeah . project manager : but i guess a little tiny speaker is gon na be quite cheap , it 's not gon na need q quality , is it ? it 's user interface : oh yeah yeah . it 'll be really cheap . marketing : or maybe you can like have a a smell-o-rama , you know you push a button and it s puts out a stink . project manager : marketing : you can industrial designer : maybe not marketing : project manager : makes your living room more fresh as you watch . marketing : yeah yeah yeah yeah . project manager : okay we 're doing well for time here . um we 've got about another ten minutes . i think that uh user interface : so the scroll wheel , in or out ? project manager : mm pr my personal preference is out . i do n't think the cost is justified for a little bit more uniqueness when we already have that , and i do n't s think it 's obvious and natural how it would be used . industrial designer : yeah . yeah i think we have like and it 's not very usable and it will bring down the robustness of the whole thing , 'cause it 's it it breaks down easier . marketing : yeah . user interface : for me i think the scroll wheel actually might not be so bad . marketing : user interface : i do n't know exactly what the increased cost is gon na be , but i think he does have a point , i it might push somebody over the edge when they 're looking at our at our remote versus something else , when they see this one has a scroll wheel to go up and down on the channels . i think it might be kinda neat to be able to do it like that . project manager : but then that that surely d depends a little on the tv because some tvs are quite slow at changing channels from like so user interface : sure . project manager : if you 've got a scroll wheel and you s you have to scroll scroll it really really slowly just so that you 're actually keeping in pace with the tv 's ability to to change channels . or do you have to go through and you wait for it ? marketing : yeah . project manager : you scroll it a bunch of times and you wait for it to user interface : well i think wh what it would be is like like the m like this , where it 's maybe you know a digital wheel , right , where it 's where it 's quantized into you know certain marketing : oh yeah . project manager : uh i see i see . that 's where you user interface : that was that was my my intuition of what the scroll wheel would be . marketing : yeah . project manager : ah i see i see what you 're talking about now . okay . marketing : user interface : it 's just it 's basically it it 's just a f look and feel thing . it has the same exact functionality as two buttons . marketing : i i think there 's you know that uh there are so many people today that are that are surfing are television surfers , and i see the scroll as a as a great mechanism for surfing . project manager : yeah if you 're just sitting there going marketing : instead of going button-to-bu you just j you 'd j j j j j j . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's kinda cool actually . marketing : i really i really think that 's a really cool thing for surfing . project manager : i like that . user interface : now just just so you know though uh you did bring up a point which is very valid , is a lot of tvs wo n't re the tvs wo n't respond exactly the same . some of them are gon na be kinda slow switching , so you may like queue up like fifteen channel changes , and it 'll be like flip , flip , flip . marketing : well there 's ano project manager : well not n necessarily . user interface : but project manager : you could basically make it so that it 'll i mean it 's just gon na be sending a signal to the tv yeah the tv 's ge so if you send about five flip channels , if you did that it 's gon na flip once . user interface : right . marketing : that 's right . project manager : if you do that . user interface : yeah it just might be frustrating where you ca n't make it go as fast as you want , project manager : other than click click click . yeah . user interface : but i think once people get used to it i i do like the idea of the scroll wheel though . project manager : and if we 're marketing it as a high niche product , then we 're gon na be selling it to people who are buying good tvs as well , yeah , presumably . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : primarily . user interface : marketing : yeah i think so . i i think so . now the the only thing i i on the interface side of it , is that i i i see the dilemma . but if we have the option of of scrolling at any particular speed , or the option of jumping direct , okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i can go uh presuming i have , on my television , something that tells me what channel i 'm on , i can scroll direct from channel five to channel thirty two . i know what because it 's on the television . the television tells me what channel it 's on when i change it . so i do n't know that really that 's that 's gon na be a a d problem , 'cause the television can go automatically from channel five to channel thirty two with the push of a button . okay ? project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so ca can we can we create that kind of interface within a scroll system ? you understand what i 'm saying ? user interface : i think i know what you might be getting at , or or project manager : oh i see so if maybe if we had an lcd up the top that just did a number on it , right ? and then it that basically marketing : oh no we could read it from the television . user interface : well , what about this what about if you can programme in your favourite channels into this scroll wheel and you can just like roll through your favourite channels , project manager : mm . well that 's quite cool . user interface : and it c it project manager : you 'd need a display on the th the thing . user interface : why ? it 'll tell you when you flip the channel on the tv . marketing : yeah the the television can tell you . user interface : yeah . project manager : oh yeah yeah no i see what you 're talking about . yeah that 's kinda cool . how would you program it though ? user interface : well you just it 's one extra button . you say programme start , and then type in marketing : put user interface : 'cause you still have the typing you know you 'll still have the keypad where you can type 'em in manually . project manager : okay okay . user interface : so programme start , zero , one , enter , zero , five , enter , thirty eight , enter , programme end . project manager : okay and yeah marketing : and then . project manager : and that just basically flips between it and it 'll go it sends out zero , five , and then thirty six , and then zero , one again . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : yeah that 's kinda cool . i like that . marketing : and again we have another another great marketing tool . we have about three we have three or four things here . project manager : that 's not gon na be too expensive because that 's gon na be you 're gon na be able to nab that off of computer mouse manufacturers really . you could basically come up with a partnership to be able to produce that quite cheaply . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i dunno and an maybe we maybe even have this as in-house technology . this may be something that 's available through our own uh through our own services . project manager : might be , but tha that 's not gon na be such a costly feature . the problem we 're gon na have is making it robust . making it last . user interface : oh well we also have to determine in some manner how to switch between modes , between going through your favourites list and just hitting up one , up two . marketing : or we go directional up we go we go this we go this we go this way for one , we go this way for the other . project manager : so if there 's a button for each type . user interface : no because you wan na be able to go up and down through the channels . project manager : yeah people are gon na have their favourite sorta , whether they do that or whether they marketing : ah-ha okay . okay , okay , user interface : right . marketing : well then you just have , you have a diff you have a mode switch . project manager : yeah yeah the mode switch . user interface : i think we 'll need a we 'll need a mode switch , but then if we have a mode switch we 're gon na need some kinda indicator project manager : just the lights behind the buttons . user interface : to which , an l_e_ an l_e_d_ project manager : you could have back-lit buttons maybe . user interface : okay . project manager : would that work ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : is that user interface : okay . project manager : okay we have five minutes . so right details th that we 've talked about here are that we want a scroll wheel . marketing : project manager : we want a mode indicator . we want back-lit buttons . and if we 're making back-lit buttons period , do we want that just for the mode indicator or maybe to indicate what button you 're pressing at the time , so that you know if it 's actually pressed or not . i 've seen some remotes do that . user interface : okay . just so you know i think i mean it was my understanding that before we were gon na stay in the mid-market range . it seems we 're kind of approaching a higher-end range . project manager : i think we are yeah . user interface : i wan na make sure everybody 's okay with that . marketing : yeah yeah . well you had acknowledged that we have more money for this . project manager : yeah well we do n't have it 's not that we have more money , marketing : did n't you say so ? project manager : we can push up the the price . marketing : that 's what i mean . project manager : yeah . marketing : we can increase the cost . user interface : okay . project manager : 'kay . marketing : so i do n't know i do n't know whether having user interface : i just wan na make sure everybody 's on board with it . so project manager : yeah . so we really need to be sure as to what we can push the cost up to , though we have n't got to a stage where we 're ready to pin down the price of components . but i 'd say what sorta price are we looking to be able to sell something like that , and what sorta price can we make it for ? marketing : well i think th i think the design and technology has to come back and say , okay to create this product we see it 's gon na cost us this much for this volume , because we do have a volume target of of fifty million profit . project manager : yeah no i i think that 's where we really should be more flexible than anything else because as we said in the last meeting , our management is really looking for us to push our brand . we 're entering a new market here , user interface : right . project manager : so i think the the profit expectation for this one product is maybe not as important as being able to marketing : okay i 'm i 'm okay with that . i guess what i just want to me the next step is for these guys to come come in with the design proposal w with the cost estimate attached , and then we have to take this to the next level . project manager : but th what 's our ballpark as to what we 'd be able to sell something like this for ? user interface : well y yeah . let 's let 's try and think now , how much would you pay for marketing : we have to find cost . user interface : with all these features how much would you pay if you went to the store , and you were in the market f to replace your tv remote , how much would you pay for that ? project manager : but you 've got ta think who our target market is because i i 'm not our target market . user interface : i 'm just asking you . project manager : i 'm a student , but on the other hand i would think , mm with my project manager salary , i would think yeah i could probably afford this user interface : if industrial designer : user interface : then you could probably afford this . project manager : uh would i buy it ? maybe . if i had a cool new tv and this was r looking really slick and it had the dock and it had the scroll wheel , which i think 's a really cool idea , that would sell me on it a little . then maybe you know . i do i do n't think i 'd go over a hundred euro certainly , that would be way too much , user interface : oh no no . project manager : but the i would be happy paying over forty for it , i guess , but not much user interface : i would say thirty five to forty . marketing : yeah , i was gon na say thirty five to fifty . project manager : 'kay . thirty five to fifty euros is our sales bracket okay . so the question is what we ca we make it for . user interface : okay . marketing : because one of th one of the things we 're marketing about this product is that this is the last one you will ever need to buy for your television . user interface : right . marketing : it 's one of the marketing features in this . project manager : that 's why the scroll needs to be really robust . industrial designer : okay so we 'll come up with something between thirty five and fifty that is rug rubber , robust , with scroll wheel , with the new facilities of the scroll wheel like favourite stuff , favourite channels , and and with a cradle , and yeah and the locator . user interface : with a cradle , radio transmitters , and back-lit buttons . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : and it 's gon na look sexy . industrial designer : or not . user interface : or not . it might look like clay . industrial designer : okay so you can market pe depending on that ? marketing : yeah yeah . bas th that 's that 's easy . that 's that 's not a , it 's a . 'cause we have about six , six , seven features in that alone . industrial designer : cool . marketing : under the title of uniquenesses . project manager : okay . the next meeting starts in thirty minutes , although does it ? it starts at three twenty one , the next meeting . so we 've got more than a thirty minutes . um we 've got more like fifty . marketing : well i have is my three twenty one is the next meeting ? project manager : the the ne next meeting is three twenty one yeah . marketing : that 's that 's almost uh fifty minutes . project manager : yeah that is . uh they 've they 've changed the times from the presentations . marketing : you guys can you guys you guys can uh create a all kinds of things . user interface : probably . we 'll let you know when we 're done , if we can go earlier . marketing : thanks , yeah . project manager : okay so you guys will be getting your modelling done now and uh user interface : yeah . project manager : okay are there any other questions with regards to what this thing 's gon na do , look like , how it 's gon na work that need to be addressed before we really look at this in a lot of detail ? user interface : i do n't think so . if we have any questions we 'll just email you i guess . industrial designer : project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah i think it pretty much everything 's covered . project manager : okay . this one was quite easy . industrial designer : coulda been worse . project manager : always the optimist . marketing : still . industrial designer : yes i am . project manager : 'kay thanks guys . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about product components . </s> user interface : so so here 's a look inside your really old-looking remote control . um you 've got a printed a printed uh circuit board here , and you 've got all these buttons which kinda press down little rubber nubbies into these little holes that activate marketing : project manager : we 've all broke a remote control ri um s yeah . user interface : yeah we 've all broken a remote control . industrial designer : marketing : i 've user interface : so you 've also got um you 've got your chip here , your batteries here , and some sorta electronics . um marketing : i just love you tech guys , huh . industrial designer : yeah there 's a thingy and a dingy and project manager : you press this and it does th user interface : well marketing : yeah y do jabber user interface : so you 've got here 's here 's a transistor , and this amplifies your signal , industrial designer : user interface : um you 've got the l_e_d_ here on the end of the uh uh on the end of the printed circuit board . um you 've got a couple diodes here for i do n't know who and whatnot . project manager : i dunno who and whatnot . user interface : so exactly . so um we 've got a i in this in this uh drawing he uh in this example here , this is a eighteen pin um uh chip i dunno . marketing : p yeah . user interface : uh it 's two double a_ batteries . industrial designer : user interface : this is pretty standard remote . so here are options for our power sources . you can use a basic battery , which we 've already discussed , um th our tech department also said we have the option of doing some kind of hand dynamo where maybe you crank it or something like that . project manager : 'kay . industrial designer : i wan na change that . user interface : i do n't know if that 's really marketing : i i got ta i got ta flashlight , and uh user interface : i do n't know we got some qu crazy guys down there in that department so industrial designer : project manager : okay . user interface : you shake it . marketing : yeah but it 's interesting 'cause you shake it like this . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : like this . user interface : so that 's the next bullet is the um the kinetic provision of energy , marketing : and that 's on the camera . industrial designer : user interface : so it 's like that flashlight where you have to shake it . marketing : yeah . project manager : 'kay . user interface : uh we 've got solar cells , which i do n't think is a very good idea because um you could not use your remote at night which does n't make a lot of sense . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : and finally we 've got our cradle o our power cradle idea . project manager : okay so we basically have battery versus cradle here ? user interface : m battery versus cradle i think is yeah . project manager : okay . industrial designer : i like the kinetic . project manager : so we have battery versus cradle marketing : i g i i figured you would . yes . yeah . user interface : it could be fun . project manager : it 's actually a novel thing because you could sell it a as a novelty , just to be actually serious for a minute here , user interface : yeah . project manager : you could user interface : well it is it is more uh i mean it is more eco-friendly than the than the cradle 'cause you 're still using power off the grid with the cradle . so um project manager : mm . hmm . user interface : our case design . we have uh choices in materials and choices in the general shapes that we can do . our material choices are a plastic latex um ty or plastic , a rubber latex type thing , uh wood , or titanium . if we go with titanium we 're gon na be uh limited in the amount of shapes we can do because it 's tough to shape the titanium , and uh yeah pers project manager : wood wood would ge would give us a little bit of a marketing niche , would n't it . user interface : i think wood i marketing : it it it user interface : i i ca n't see anybody wanting to use a wooden remote , it 's just anti-technology really , you know . project manager : okay . hmm . marketing : uh uh to me in a marketing sense it 's not it 's not relative . we can we can o we can uh accentuate whatever whatever product you put in there we can find a way to accentuate it . user interface : right . project manager : okay . user interface : and what we may be able to do , and i think this might be the best option is to combine some a couple of these . um my recommendation personally would be to do some kind of a plastic inner shell with a like a rubber outer shell , to make it um to mak uh like a thick plastic inner shell and a t um kind of a to have that rubber outer shell to make it more durable , and also maybe i i think it feels a little better than the plastic . project manager : 'kay . do you get a good grip on the rubber ? yeah okay . user interface : yeah um marketing : and if you make it from that super rubber , when you drop it on the floor it can bounce right back up in your hand . user interface : yeah . marketing : you do n't even need to lean down to get it . user interface : the advantages of working with plastic and rubber is w we we 'll have a lot more um options just in terms of shape industrial designer : marketing : user interface : because you can extrude plastic in basically any shape you want . so um and then we can cover you know the breakable bits with rubber yeah so um project manager : okay . user interface : but basically these are curved and double-curved i i believe that the tech department , in their um in their message to me , that they were referring to the number of th curves in the bottom . i have no idea exactly what they 're talking about , project manager : okay . user interface : but that 's what they told me , uncurved , flat , curved , or double-curved . industrial designer : user interface : i would guess this like this pen would be kinda like a double-curved , where it 's curved on m m multiple axes , right ? i think curved means just curved in one axis and double-curved is curved in two axes project manager : okay . user interface : or surfaces . i have no idea . project manager : i think it might mean something like that sorta shape because a double curve rather than a marketing : mm-hmm yeah that 's yeah that 's what i see . project manager : yeah that 's what . user interface : oh okay oh like a wave , okay . marketing : yeah that 's what i see also . user interface : alright that makes sense okay . um okay , with the interface we have the following options , we can u we can use push buttons , we can use a scroll wheel with an integrated push button , and lcd display , or multiple scrolling wheels . um so these are all options that the user interface guy can uh has at his disposal to put together a user interface . project manager : okay . user interface : for electronics , we have these very technical um descriptions here . a simple chip , which is the least expensive , but i have no numbers to give you , project manager : user interface : a regular chip , which is like the medium porridge the medium expense uh project manager : d do we have actually any concept of what the difference is between a simple chip and an advanced chip ? user interface : yes the difference is , with a simple chip a simple chip will operate oh why does n't this scroll up ? previous previous , okay . a simple chip is required to operate push buttons . project manager : okay . user interface : um an advanced chip is required to to operate um the lcd display , and it did n't say specifically , but i i have a hunch that a regular chip is gon na be the scroll wheel and the multiple scroll wheels . project manager : okay . user interface : so but yeah . project manager : yeah that makes sense . so presentation from i guess design would go best . next . user interface : that 's the end of my presentation . project manager : technical functions or interface concept ? user interface : i think industrial designer : oh interface concept . project manager : yeah that 's it . industrial designer : very long presentation . project manager : yes , but it has your name on it . user interface : project manager : user interface : that i would believe . industrial designer : about marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : industrial designer : but um yeah i think we we need to compromise between those two and somehow we 'll do that . somehow . um so the the what i would propose is something more or less in the uh direction of what is to yo the right of that slide uh but without with a l a less complicated um design , so the numbers , the volume control , and channel control , and teletext access . uh the volume and channel control can just become those the the four button array as in if it was a round dial . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : and um if you just think about it as the one to the right but with the numbers and the four buttons plus maybe a centre one with teletext . project manager : so we 're suggesting doing a sorta scroll wheel thing for the volume ? industrial designer : ye no it 's not user interface : that 's not a scroll wheel . industrial designer : i i it 's just four buttons that are on a cross , project manager : nah . oh okay okay . i see . industrial designer : so that you ba basically can control all of the important tasks from that alone . user interface : right . project manager : uh , okay . user interface : instead of play , stop , rewind , and fast forward there , that 's up , down , louder , and quieter . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah um yeah so i think we w we go for something mid-sized , so something looks good marketing : industrial designer : and uh is not too prone to get lost . that be it . project manager : 'kay . so on to y functional requirements or trend watching ? marketing : i dunno . user interface : trend watching has a later date there . marketing : trend watching i guess . trend watching i believe . project manager : forty six nineteen fifty seven . yep . marketing : see what it looks like . it 's been so long . project manager : industrial designer : . marketing : well i do n't know what to say . when i s when i see the when i see the product i i i i do n't wan na buy it . i see so many of 'em out there . there 's nothing about that product that makes me wan na choose that product over other products that are out there . user interface : are you talking about the picture ? that 's not our that 's not our b design , marketing : yeah yeah . user interface : that 's just a that 's just something he a a graphic he used to show you the layout of what the layout of the buttons might be like . marketing : okay . okay . okay 'cause 'cause right now i do n't have too much to say about how to market this product because we do n't have a product to market yet . and uh from from talking to mike is that we have we have uh we can market a more expensive product now . that 's what i understand so , project manager : upper management said yes . marketing : hello . project manager : uh e excuse that , that 's a bit of spam . marketing : and and so yeah i 'm a i 'm a little bit stuck right now in that what uh w what is it that i 'm gon na market ? uh without special or increased marketable features i do n't believe the product has a consumer demand . uh i like the idea of of the scroll makin there are so many people making these products at this price right now . what are we gon na do to make this one special and unique ? user interface : what 's special and unique about a scroll ? marketing : uh well i do n't project manager : it 's cool . marketing : yeah it 's i i just see it as different . i do n't say it 's specially mm i do n't say it 's special . uh i say that it 's different i what i 'm looking for as marketing is m give me something different . i give me a lower price , give me a higher price , give me some new technology , do n't give me the same thing that everybody else is putting out there on the shelf it 's f at the same price . i need something to market about this thing . we 're we 're a new firm . project manager : i 'd i 'd say though that we if we did make the decision to go with the cradle though , the then we have that as well , marketing : what i if when when we have project manager : but wi with a similar marketing : yeah when we when we have something like the cradle or or something give that 's as as a marketing standard i need something to market , to make this product unique . user interface : well right i think the two big th points that we have so far are the having the cradle and also having uh the um the actual design of the uh case itself having like this like rubber shell maybe with a plastic interior , having it look really nice um and also be really durable . marketing : mm 'kay . just remember when i made up this report i did n't have the information that we 're discussing here . project manager : mm . course . user interface : right yeah . yeah . marketing : and and so so uh yeah when we have a cradle , when we have some kind of design , so what i 'm saying is , from my perspective , i do n't have a product to market right now . um uh my personal preference is that we make some adjustment in the cost , either lower or develop an integrated new technol technology . that 's that is the next step , there 's technology and then there is technology , which we 're moving into the next phase . project manager : yeah 'cause that 's . industrial designer : marketing : and so uh we 're gon na have some new technology to enhance the marketability . yeah uh again i 'm not sold on the product because we do n't have a product in my opinion yet . so i need a product . project manager : mm 'kay . user interface : well let 's get a product then . marketing : i need a product to market . and i just whatever product you guys put together , we 'll find a way to market it . tha that i 'm not concerned with . project manager : so now marketing : if you if you give me if you give me a cut-out of what everybody else has then i need to i need to find a lower cost . project manager : so our big questions here really are cradle or not cradle ? do we go basic or do we go for features ? uh d does anyone really wan na do anything with the scroll wheel or should we ditch that off-hand first ? user interface : well my question is what would the scroll wheel do ? function-wise , what does that do that project manager : oh but that was in your presentation so wh what would you imagine it doing ? marketing : yeah wh wh what 's the wh user interface : yeah . well it 's it 's just another way to do the exact same thing that the buttons do . project manager : mm 'kay industrial designer : but would we marketing : okay now what i see with the scroll wheel is everybody has buttons . so from a marketing standpoint i have i have another door to walk through when we have something that 's unique . project manager : yeah . marketing : if it creates something more complex or more expensive , then i do n't know if that makes it uh a marketing necessity . but again , from a marketing perspective i want as much new and different about this thing as possible because we 're we 're co it 's a very competitive market . project manager : what i understand about scroll wheels is they 're they 're quite expensive to to make . user interface : yeah . project manager : so i d user interface : th they are gon na be more expensive , but on the other hand , i mean , it i mean it is an alternative if if you think that 's gon na sell some some uh you know if if we 're gon na make up the extra cost by extra sales i think maybe it 's worth it to do it , but i mean i would just use if i was gon na do this i would just use the scroll wheel for s channels up and channels down . i do n't think volume or do you think volume would be industrial designer : i dunno . i 'll bet first in volume maybe . i dunno . user interface : no we can we can do multiple scroll wheels but project manager : well i d i like the idea of basically focusing the my personal preference is focusing the p the product on the idea of the uh the case the the uh dock to put it in to to charge it . we can target like environmentally friendly ideas , that sorta things . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : it s i m makes it easy to market , marketing : yeah yeah . project manager : it 's easy to differentiate the product , yeah so . marketing : i think it 's that 's right . i think so . project manager : and if we we keep the rest in a format that is durable because th th the whole product 's gon na need to be more durable th thus because you 're not going to be ditching it as often . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : it 's gon na need to be more expensive because of the cradle . so if we can market it in terms of that and yeah well marketing : yep . i think we got some exclusivity in that , you know , we got something that nobody else has right now , user interface : yeah . marketing : and and that means we can we can make some adjustments in the retail or wholesale price if we need to and it also can create it 's own demand from it 's uniqueness . project manager : so our big decision then is like how do we do um like we have to decide on the details and we have to decide on well n not exactly the details , but d do we have uh what type of casing ? i personally like what you were saying about the plastic with the rubber . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : user interface : i 'm thinking yeah something like kinda almost like these pens , you know , where there 's you have plastic bits and then it 's not really rubber but just kinda like a fused the plastic with rubber on the outside . project manager : okay . just a very thin sorta sheet for a a grip , sorta thing or for user interface : well no ma yeah maybe a bit more then th is on here but ju just as a kind of an inspiration , these pens i think are are kind of project manager : okay . so then if we d d do we want to do anything more basic with the uh more advanced with the user interface in terms of do we want to go for um buttons , or do we want if we 're ditching the scroll wheels do we want to go lcd ? do we want to give do we want to have anything else on it ? industrial designer : it 's only a tv . user interface : or from from my perspective i think lcd is a mistake because this is a universal remote and all you 're doing i mean it 's you 're not gon na get any information back from the television , so the only information you can display on this remote is what channel you just sent it at last and there 's just not a lot of information , you know , there . project manager : okay . user interface : it receives no information . so i i do n't see any reason for having an lcd 'cause it 's an increased cost . unless you can think of something interesting to do with it . marketing : yeah . yeah right now there 's right now there 's nothing coming out of the tv to receive , so you know unless technology changes and information starts coming out of the a cable box or something there 's no s i do n't see the , user interface : right . marketing : i do n't see the necessity of an lcd either . do n't see it . project manager : okay so the question is now i guess we need t to decide on well y you guys basically have to now go and figure out the details of this thing . marketing : project manager : so , what we need to know in terms of marketing and uh project management are are there any other questions that we need to answer now before you guys can go and build this ? marketing : project manager : what what overall things have we not decided on ? user interface : well we have to i think for me it 's still not exactly clear exactly what the inter user interface is gon na be . there 's the scroll wheel , in or out ? what do you guys like in the user interface ? project manager : i think maybe in terms of marketing , is that gon na make enough of a difference to justify the cost ? marketing : again . well i think it 's it 's the more uniqueness you can bring to the product , the easier it is , i believe , for me to market . uh again the push-buttons i i see are are everywhere . and so we can go with the same thing , but we 're gon na be com competing in a in a broader market than if we go with something unique . you know the other thing i thought about was you know , do we go to something like this ? make a remote that does n't look like a remote . it 's just another it 's just a an idea , and i do n't know user interface : well i dunno about like the flip-phone idea , because i think , as far as durability th it 's not a big well maybe when it 's closed . marketing : i mean what i see one of the things one of the things you brought up in an earlier presentation is , when you got children , their their stuff gets inside the circuitry , they get dirty , they get messy with drinks and stuff . user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : this user interface : mm-hmm . marketing : and what i keep throwing out there i just keep throwing out ideas to try to make this thing look or act or in some way identify itself as unique or different . industrial designer : mm-hmm . marketing : but you guys are the ones that have to c ultimately create the product within cost . project manager : yeah and i guess th th the question th th that you 're being asked right now is whether is the dock enough of a unique feature to be able to go out and sell that a a as a a very different product , or do we really need the scroll wheel as well ? marketing : oh okay project manager : because the scroll wheel comes at quite a cost . marketing : phew . user interface : yeah . marketing : i think you got ta g get into cost effectiveness . i think if you can have the base station with a with a locator , i think those are two very strong features , user interface : well marketing : if that 's something that can be integrated without a bunch of extra cost . user interface : the the locator 's gon na require a radio transmitter , which will marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : that 's gon na n is that gon na need a better chip as well ? user interface : um we 're probably gon na have to go with a like a medium chip , s i would imagine . industrial designer : no it 's just different . user interface : but we i we will need a receiver , an antenna . marketing : integrated , yeah . user interface : yeah . marketing : so it 's just uh i i think that 's user interface : it should be a really simple signal though so marketing : i know personally that would be a very attractive feature , is to have a uh have a button i can push to find my remote control . project manager : and it 's presumably gon na need a little speaker in it or something like that as well to beep . user interface : that 's true yeah . project manager : but i guess a little tiny speaker is gon na be quite cheap , it 's not gon na need q quality , is it ? it 's user interface : oh yeah yeah . it 'll be really cheap . marketing : or maybe you can like have a a smell-o-rama , you know you push a button and it s puts out a stink . project manager : marketing : you can industrial designer : maybe not marketing : project manager : makes your living room more fresh as you watch . marketing : yeah yeah yeah yeah . project manager : okay we 're doing well for time here . um we 've got about another ten minutes . i think that uh user interface : so the scroll wheel , in or out ? project manager : mm pr my personal preference is out . i do n't think the cost is justified for a little bit more uniqueness when we already have that , and i do n't s think it 's obvious and natural how it would be used . industrial designer : yeah . yeah i think we have like and it 's not very usable and it will bring down the robustness of the whole thing , 'cause it 's it it breaks down easier . marketing : yeah . user interface : for me i think the scroll wheel actually might not be so bad . marketing : user interface : i do n't know exactly what the increased cost is gon na be , but i think he does have a point , i it might push somebody over the edge when they 're looking at our at our remote versus something else , when they see this one has a scroll wheel to go up and down on the channels . i think it might be kinda neat to be able to do it like that . project manager : but then that that surely d depends a little on the tv because some tvs are quite slow at changing channels from like so user interface : sure . project manager : if you 've got a scroll wheel and you s you have to scroll scroll it really really slowly just so that you 're actually keeping in pace with the tv 's ability to to change channels . or do you have to go through and you wait for it ? marketing : yeah . project manager : you scroll it a bunch of times and you wait for it to user interface : well i think wh what it would be is like like the m like this , where it 's maybe you know a digital wheel , right , where it 's where it 's quantized into you know certain marketing : oh yeah . project manager : uh i see i see . that 's where you user interface : that was that was my my intuition of what the scroll wheel would be . marketing : yeah . project manager : ah i see i see what you 're talking about now . okay . marketing : user interface : it 's just it 's basically it it 's just a f look and feel thing . it has the same exact functionality as two buttons . marketing : i i think there 's you know that uh there are so many people today that are that are surfing are television surfers , and i see the scroll as a as a great mechanism for surfing . project manager : yeah if you 're just sitting there going marketing : instead of going button-to-bu you just j you 'd j j j j j j . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's kinda cool actually . marketing : i really i really think that 's a really cool thing for surfing . project manager : i like that . user interface : now just just so you know though uh you did bring up a point which is very valid , is a lot of tvs wo n't re the tvs wo n't respond exactly the same . some of them are gon na be kinda slow switching , so you may like queue up like fifteen channel changes , and it 'll be like flip , flip , flip . marketing : well there 's ano project manager : well not n necessarily . user interface : but project manager : you could basically make it so that it 'll i mean it 's just gon na be sending a signal to the tv yeah the tv 's ge so if you send about five flip channels , if you did that it 's gon na flip once . user interface : right . marketing : that 's right . project manager : if you do that . user interface : yeah it just might be frustrating where you ca n't make it go as fast as you want , project manager : other than click click click . yeah . user interface : but i think once people get used to it i i do like the idea of the scroll wheel though . project manager : and if we 're marketing it as a high niche product , then we 're gon na be selling it to people who are buying good tvs as well , yeah , presumably . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : primarily . user interface : marketing : yeah i think so . i i think so . now the the only thing i i on the interface side of it , is that i i i see the dilemma . but if we have the option of of scrolling at any particular speed , or the option of jumping direct , okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i can go uh presuming i have , on my television , something that tells me what channel i 'm on , i can scroll direct from channel five to channel thirty two . i know what because it 's on the television . the television tells me what channel it 's on when i change it . so i do n't know that really that 's that 's gon na be a a d problem , 'cause the television can go automatically from channel five to channel thirty two with the push of a button . okay ? </s>
<s> what did the user interface designer recommend when discussing the casing material of the product and why ? </s> user interface : our case design . we have uh choices in materials and choices in the general shapes that we can do . our material choices are a plastic latex um ty or plastic , a rubber latex type thing , uh wood , or titanium . if we go with titanium we 're gon na be uh limited in the amount of shapes we can do because it 's tough to shape the titanium , and uh yeah pers project manager : wood wood would ge would give us a little bit of a marketing niche , would n't it . user interface : i think wood i marketing : it it it user interface : i i ca n't see anybody wanting to use a wooden remote , it 's just anti-technology really , you know . project manager : okay . hmm . marketing : uh uh to me in a marketing sense it 's not it 's not relative . we can we can o we can uh accentuate whatever whatever product you put in there we can find a way to accentuate it . user interface : right . project manager : okay . user interface : and what we may be able to do , and i think this might be the best option is to combine some a couple of these . um my recommendation personally would be to do some kind of a plastic inner shell with a like a rubber outer shell , to make it um to mak uh like a thick plastic inner shell and a t um kind of a to have that rubber outer shell to make it more durable , and also maybe i i think it feels a little better than the plastic . project manager : 'kay . do you get a good grip on the rubber ? yeah okay . user interface : yeah um marketing : and if you make it from that super rubber , when you drop it on the floor it can bounce right back up in your hand . user interface : yeah . marketing : you do n't even need to lean down to get it . user interface : the advantages of working with plastic and rubber is w we we 'll have a lot more um options just in terms of shape industrial designer : marketing : </s>
<s> what were the advantages and disadvantages of a scroll wheel ? </s> user interface : well my question is what would the scroll wheel do ? function-wise , what does that do that project manager : oh but that was in your presentation so wh what would you imagine it doing ? marketing : yeah wh wh what 's the wh user interface : yeah . well it 's it 's just another way to do the exact same thing that the buttons do . project manager : mm 'kay industrial designer : but would we marketing : okay now what i see with the scroll wheel is everybody has buttons . so from a marketing standpoint i have i have another door to walk through when we have something that 's unique . project manager : yeah . marketing : if it creates something more complex or more expensive , then i do n't know if that makes it uh a marketing necessity . but again , from a marketing perspective i want as much new and different about this thing as possible because we 're we 're co it 's a very competitive market . project manager : what i understand about scroll wheels is they 're they 're quite expensive to to make . user interface : yeah . project manager : so i d user interface : th they are gon na be more expensive , but on the other hand , i mean , it i mean it is an alternative if if you think that 's gon na sell some some uh you know if if we 're gon na make up the extra cost by extra sales i think maybe it 's worth it to do it , but i mean i would just use if i was gon na do this i would just use the scroll wheel for s channels up and channels down . i do n't think volume or do you think volume would be industrial designer : i dunno . i 'll bet first in volume maybe . i dunno . user interface : no we can we can do multiple scroll wheels but so the scroll wheel , in or out ? project manager : mm pr my personal preference is out . i do n't think the cost is justified for a little bit more uniqueness when we already have that , and i do n't s think it 's obvious and natural how it would be used . industrial designer : yeah . yeah i think we have like and it 's not very usable and it will bring down the robustness of the whole thing , 'cause it 's it it breaks down easier . marketing : yeah . user interface : for me i think the scroll wheel actually might not be so bad . marketing : user interface : i do n't know exactly what the increased cost is gon na be , but i think he does have a point , i it might push somebody over the edge when they 're looking at our at our remote versus something else , when they see this one has a scroll wheel to go up and down on the channels . i think it might be kinda neat to be able to do it like that . project manager : but then that that surely d depends a little on the tv because some tvs are quite slow at changing channels from like so user interface : sure . project manager : if you 've got a scroll wheel and you s you have to scroll scroll it really really slowly just so that you 're actually keeping in pace with the tv 's ability to to change channels . or do you have to go through and you wait for it ? marketing : yeah . project manager : you scroll it a bunch of times and you wait for it to user interface : well i think wh what it would be is like like the m like this , where it 's maybe you know a digital wheel , right , where it 's where it 's quantized into you know certain marketing : oh yeah . project manager : uh i see i see . that 's where you user interface : that was that was my my intuition of what the scroll wheel would be . marketing : yeah . project manager : ah i see i see what you 're talking about now . okay . marketing : user interface : it 's just it 's basically it it 's just a f look and feel thing . it has the same exact functionality as two buttons . marketing : i i think there 's you know that uh there are so many people today that are that are surfing are television surfers , and i see the scroll as a as a great mechanism for surfing . project manager : yeah if you 're just sitting there going marketing : instead of going button-to-bu you just j you 'd j j j j j j . user interface : yeah . project manager : that 's kinda cool actually . marketing : i really i really think that 's a really cool thing for surfing . project manager : i like that . user interface : now just just so you know though uh you did bring up a point which is very valid , is a lot of tvs wo n't re the tvs wo n't respond exactly the same . some of them are gon na be kinda slow switching , so you may like queue up like fifteen channel changes , and it 'll be like flip , flip , flip . marketing : well there 's ano project manager : well not n necessarily . user interface : but project manager : you could basically make it so that it 'll i mean it 's just gon na be sending a signal to the tv yeah the tv 's ge so if you send about five flip channels , if you did that it 's gon na flip once . user interface : right . marketing : that 's right . project manager : if you do that . user interface : yeah it just might be frustrating where you ca n't make it go as fast as you want , project manager : other than click click click . yeah . user interface : but i think once people get used to it i i do like the idea of the scroll wheel though . project manager : and if we 're marketing it as a high niche product , then we 're gon na be selling it to people who are buying good tvs as well , yeah , presumably . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : primarily . user interface : marketing : yeah i think so . i i think so . now the the only thing i i on the interface side of it , is that i i i see the dilemma . but if we have the option of of scrolling at any particular speed , or the option of jumping direct , okay . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : so i can go uh presuming i have , on my television , something that tells me what channel i 'm on , i can scroll direct from channel five to channel thirty two . i know what because it 's on the television . the television tells me what channel it 's on when i change it . so i do n't know that really that 's that 's gon na be a a d problem , 'cause the television can go automatically from channel five to channel thirty two with the push of a button . okay ? </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about functional design . </s> industrial designer : well that does n't bo bode well for it for it tats as well . um so , somehow that thing 's too big , but um okay um our uh manufacturing division wanted the speech recognition . they say they could put it to work but um we do n't think so . user interface : no . industrial designer : no . it it it you 'll be you know be affected by the by the other speech and user interface : if the tv is working , yeah . project manager : user interface : that 's just i mean it 'll if somebody says up in the middle of a television show , it 's gon na change the channel . industrial designer : yeah and and fighting for the remote would not be fun anymore , user interface : so industrial designer : and i think that 's one of the things we wan na keep . project manager : but what if you actually had to press a button to make it recognize ? so if you pressed it and went , up ? industrial designer : that kinda would r d user interface : well then why do n't you just press the up button ? project manager : man yeah . industrial designer : yeah . that would kind of lose it . project manager : but if it 's just one thing with a button that you can just go up . user interface : even still there 's gon na be interf th there 's there still will be interference from the tv . marketing : that 's right . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : it might not be it might not be completely confusing , but i think you 'll still y it 's still marketing : user interface : i do n't think it 's practical at all . i think it 's a bad idea frankly . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah so um taking that away , our uh the the the rubber but rubber buttons are the more reliable project manager : you guys know your stuff . industrial designer : it 's the the ones that would al would allow us to to market our product as being you know less prone to damage and more resistant to things like spillage of liquids over it or you know mistreat misuses as it happens to remote controls . um as for the point that we making about losing it . well , we wan na small r remote control one side because uh we want it to be cool and uh designed , but um apparently um market shows that bigger s bigger um remotes get less lost , marketing : so ca can we can we create that kind of interface within a scroll system ? you understand what i 'm saying ? user interface : i think i know what you might be getting at , or or project manager : oh i see so if maybe if we had an lcd up the top that just did a number on it , right ? and then it that basically marketing : oh no we could read it from the television . user interface : well , what about this what about if you can programme in your favourite channels into this scroll wheel and you can just like roll through your favourite channels , project manager : mm . well that 's quite cool . user interface : and it c it project manager : you 'd need a display on the th the thing . user interface : why ? it 'll tell you when you flip the channel on the tv . marketing : yeah the the television can tell you . user interface : yeah . project manager : oh yeah yeah no i see what you 're talking about . yeah that 's kinda cool . how would you program it though ? user interface : well you just it 's one extra button . you say programme start , and then type in marketing : put user interface : 'cause you still have the typing you know you 'll still have the keypad where you can type 'em in manually . project manager : okay okay . user interface : so programme start , zero , one , enter , zero , five , enter , thirty eight , enter , programme end . project manager : okay and yeah marketing : and then . project manager : and that just basically flips between it and it 'll go it sends out zero , five , and then thirty six , and then zero , one again . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : yeah that 's kinda cool . i like that . marketing : and again we have another another great marketing tool . we have about three we have three or four things here . project manager : that 's not gon na be too expensive because that 's gon na be you 're gon na be able to nab that off of computer mouse manufacturers really . you could basically come up with a partnership to be able to produce that quite cheaply . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i dunno and an maybe we maybe even have this as in-house technology . this may be something that 's available through our own uh through our own services . project manager : might be , but tha that 's not gon na be such a costly feature . the problem we 're gon na have is making it robust . making it last . user interface : oh well we also have to determine in some manner how to switch between modes , between going through your favourites list and just hitting up one , up two . marketing : or we go directional up we go we go this we go this we go this way for one , we go this way for the other . project manager : so if there 's a button for each type . user interface : no because you wan na be able to go up and down through the channels . project manager : yeah people are gon na have their favourite sorta , whether they do that or whether they marketing : ah-ha okay . okay , okay , user interface : right . marketing : well then you just have , you have a diff you have a mode switch . project manager : yeah yeah the mode switch . user interface : i think we 'll need a we 'll need a mode switch , but then if we have a mode switch we 're gon na need some kinda indicator project manager : just the lights behind the buttons . user interface : to which , an l_e_ an l_e_d_ project manager : you could have back-lit buttons maybe . user interface : okay . project manager : would that work ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : is that user interface : okay . project manager : okay we have five minutes . so right details th that we 've talked about here are that we want a scroll wheel . marketing : </s>
<s> what did the industrial designer and the user interface designer think of speech recognition ? </s> industrial designer : well that does n't bo bode well for it for it tats as well . um so , somehow that thing 's too big , but um okay um our uh manufacturing division wanted the speech recognition . they say they could put it to work but um we do n't think so . user interface : no . industrial designer : no . it it it you 'll be you know be affected by the by the other speech and user interface : if the tv is working , yeah . project manager : user interface : that 's just i mean it 'll if somebody says up in the middle of a television show , it 's gon na change the channel . industrial designer : yeah and and fighting for the remote would not be fun anymore , user interface : so industrial designer : and i think that 's one of the things we wan na keep . project manager : but what if you actually had to press a button to make it recognize ? so if you pressed it and went , up ? industrial designer : that kinda would r d user interface : well then why do n't you just press the up button ? project manager : man yeah . industrial designer : yeah . that would kind of lose it . project manager : but if it 's just one thing with a button that you can just go up . user interface : even still there 's gon na be interf th there 's there still will be interference from the tv . marketing : that 's right . project manager : yeah , okay . user interface : it might not be it might not be completely confusing , but i think you 'll still y it 's still marketing : user interface : i do n't think it 's practical at all . i think it 's a bad idea frankly . project manager : okay . industrial designer : yeah so um taking that away , our uh the the the rubber but rubber buttons are the more reliable </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the function of rolling through the user 's favourite channels ? </s> marketing : so ca can we can we create that kind of interface within a scroll system ? you understand what i 'm saying ? user interface : i think i know what you might be getting at , or or project manager : oh i see so if maybe if we had an lcd up the top that just did a number on it , right ? and then it that basically marketing : oh no we could read it from the television . user interface : well , what about this what about if you can programme in your favourite channels into this scroll wheel and you can just like roll through your favourite channels , project manager : mm . well that 's quite cool . user interface : and it c it project manager : you 'd need a display on the th the thing . user interface : why ? it 'll tell you when you flip the channel on the tv . marketing : yeah the the television can tell you . user interface : yeah . project manager : oh yeah yeah no i see what you 're talking about . yeah that 's kinda cool . how would you program it though ? user interface : well you just it 's one extra button . you say programme start , and then type in marketing : put user interface : 'cause you still have the typing you know you 'll still have the keypad where you can type 'em in manually . project manager : okay okay . user interface : so programme start , zero , one , enter , zero , five , enter , thirty eight , enter , programme end . project manager : okay and yeah marketing : and then . project manager : and that just basically flips between it and it 'll go it sends out zero , five , and then thirty six , and then zero , one again . user interface : mm-hmm . mm-hmm . project manager : yeah that 's kinda cool . i like that . marketing : and again we have another another great marketing tool . we have about three we have three or four things here . project manager : that 's not gon na be too expensive because that 's gon na be you 're gon na be able to nab that off of computer mouse manufacturers really . you could basically come up with a partnership to be able to produce that quite cheaply . user interface : mm-hmm . industrial designer : yeah . marketing : i dunno and an maybe we maybe even have this as in-house technology . this may be something that 's available through our own uh through our own services . project manager : might be , but tha that 's not gon na be such a costly feature . the problem we 're gon na have is making it robust . making it last . user interface : oh well we also have to determine in some manner how to switch between modes , between going through your favourites list and just hitting up one , up two . marketing : or we go directional up we go we go this we go this we go this way for one , we go this way for the other . project manager : so if there 's a button for each type . user interface : no because you wan na be able to go up and down through the channels . project manager : yeah people are gon na have their favourite sorta , whether they do that or whether they marketing : ah-ha okay . okay , okay , user interface : right . marketing : well then you just have , you have a diff you have a mode switch . project manager : yeah yeah the mode switch . user interface : i think we 'll need a we 'll need a mode switch , but then if we have a mode switch we 're gon na need some kinda indicator project manager : just the lights behind the buttons . user interface : to which , an l_e_ an l_e_d_ project manager : you could have back-lit buttons maybe . user interface : okay . project manager : would that work ? industrial designer : yeah . project manager : is that user interface : okay . project manager : okay we have five minutes . so right details th that we 've talked about here are that we want a scroll wheel . marketing : </s>
<s> summarize the discussion about price issues . </s> user interface : okay . just so you know i think i mean it was my understanding that before we were gon na stay in the mid-market range . it seems we 're kind of approaching a higher-end range . project manager : i think we are yeah . user interface : i wan na make sure everybody 's okay with that . marketing : yeah yeah . well you had acknowledged that we have more money for this . project manager : yeah well we do n't have it 's not that we have more money , marketing : did n't you say so ? project manager : we can push up the the price . marketing : that 's what i mean . project manager : yeah . marketing : we can increase the cost . user interface : okay . project manager : 'kay . marketing : so i do n't know i do n't know whether having user interface : i just wan na make sure everybody 's on board with it . so project manager : yeah . so we really need to be sure as to what we can push the cost up to , though we have n't got to a stage where we 're ready to pin down the price of components . but i 'd say what sorta price are we looking to be able to sell something like that , and what sorta price can we make it for ? marketing : well i think th i think the design and technology has to come back and say , okay to create this product we see it 's gon na cost us this much for this volume , because we do have a volume target of of fifty million profit . project manager : yeah no i i think that 's where we really should be more flexible than anything else because as we said in the last meeting , our management is really looking for us to push our brand . we 're entering a new market here , user interface : right . project manager : so i think the the profit expectation for this one product is maybe not as important as being able to marketing : okay i 'm i 'm okay with that . i guess what i just want to me the next step is for these guys to come come in with the design proposal w with the cost estimate attached , and then we have to take this to the next level . project manager : but th what 's our ballpark as to what we 'd be able to sell something like this for ? user interface : well y yeah . let 's let 's try and think now , how much would you pay for marketing : we have to find cost . user interface : with all these features how much would you pay if you went to the store , and you were in the market f to replace your tv remote , how much would you pay for that ? project manager : but you 've got ta think who our target market is because i i 'm not our target market . user interface : i 'm just asking you . project manager : i 'm a student , but on the other hand i would think , mm with my project manager salary , i would think yeah i could probably afford this user interface : if industrial designer : user interface : then you could probably afford this . project manager : uh would i buy it ? maybe . if i had a cool new tv and this was r looking really slick and it had the dock and it had the scroll wheel , which i think 's a really cool idea , that would sell me on it a little . then maybe you know . i do i do n't think i 'd go over a hundred euro certainly , that would be way too much , user interface : oh no no . project manager : but the i would be happy paying over forty for it , i guess , but not much user interface : i would say thirty five to forty . marketing : yeah , i was gon na say thirty five to fifty . project manager : 'kay . thirty five to fifty euros is our sales bracket okay . so the question is what we ca we make it for . user interface : okay . marketing : because one of th one of the things we 're marketing about this product is that this is the last one you will ever need to buy for your television . user interface : right . marketing : it 's one of the marketing features in this . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : good morning . sorry ? yeah , busy job . good morning . so oh , good morning everyone . user interface : good morning . industrial designer : good morning . project manager : i 'd uh like to welcome you to our first meeting . i 've prepared a little presentation . my name is and uh i hope you will introduce yourself uh in a few minutes , as will i . um i 'm the project manager of this project , and uh , well i will tell you on what actually is the project . this is uh the agenda for our first meeting . um this is the opening , then we will get i will hope we will get acquainted to each other . we 'll do a little tool training with these two things . we 'll take a look at the project plan . uh there will be time for discussion . actually we have to discuss because we have to create a product . and then we will close this session . um but first of all we i 'd like to uh introduce you to this room . um as you probably have noticed there are little black uh fields on the table . um you have to put your laptop exactly in that field so the little cameras can see your face . um there are cameras industrial designer : project manager : everywhere around the room especially here for your face , of course , and this is n't a pie , it 's a a set of microphones industrial designer : project manager : and there are microphones here also . but please uh do n't be afraid of them . user interface : project manager : they wo n't hurt you . um well uh user interface : well industrial designer : project manager : i said i 'm the project manager and uh i 'm hoping uh for a good project and uh i 'd like to hear uh who you are and what your functions are uh on this project . let 's start with the ladies . user interface : well uh i 'm uh and my uh function is user interface design , i think . industrial designer : user interface : so uh that 's me . industrial designer : okay , uh i 'm uh i 'm the industrial designer and i uh hope to uh look forward to uh a very uh pleasing uh end of this uh project . project manager : okay , so i . user interface : me too . marketing : my name 's . i 'm uh marketing expert . my job is in the company to promote company or promote products to the customers . so i also h hope we have a pleasant uh working with uh with each other . project manager : okay , well we have some expertise from uh different pieces of the of the company . user interface : project manager : that 's good . um well i said uh we 're working on a project and the aim for the project is to to create a to design a new remote control which uh has to be original , trendy and of course , user friendly . and uh i hope we have the expertise to create such a project such a product . um the way we hope to achieve that is uh the following methods . it consists of three phases , namely the functional design , conceptual design and detailed design . as you can see , all of these phases consists of two parts , namely individual work part and a meeting where we will discuss uh our work so far . okay . but first i will uh tell you something about the tools we have here . i already talked about the cameras and microphones , but they are not of uh much use to us . uh we will have to take advantage of these two things . they are smart boards . as you can see , you can give a presentation on them . and uh this one here is a white board . i will uh instruct you about that soon . um as you also noticed uh this presentation document is in our uh project folder and every document you put in this folder uh is uh it is possible to show that here in our meeting room . um and yeah there are available on both smart boards but i think we will uh mainly use this one for the documents in the shared folder . as you can see , this is the same tool bar uh as is located here . um the most functions uh we will use will be to to add a new page , um uh to go back and forward between pages , and of course uh to save it every now and then . um and this is the pen with which you can draw on the board , for instance like this if everything 's okay , user interface : project manager : but i first have to put it on the pen , you see i 'm new to it too . user interface : project manager : um and then you can write things like test or whatever you want . industrial designer : project manager : as you can see you have to move it a little bit slow , it 's not such a fast board , it 's a smart board but also a slow board . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : uh but you can write things and of course you can also , when you click here , uh erase things , so we have uh est left . and um you can also delete an entire page , but we ask you not to do that . just simply create a new one and uh start all over because we want to save all the results . um does everyone understand this user interface : so we ca n't erase anything . project manager : nice application ? industrial designer : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : well you can erase it with the eraser , but uh you should n't delete an entire page , but just create a new blank one . user interface : right . project manager : i will delete this one now because we do n't use it yet . user interface : alright . project manager : but you can of course erase when you make a mistake , but do n't uh delete entire pages . and you can also um let 's see i think it 's here uh change the uh colour of your pen , for instance take a blue one and uh change the line width like to five . um that 's what you will need for our first exercise , because i 'm uh going to ask you to draw your favourite animal . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : it 's also to gets to know each other because um i 'm asking three things , uh for that uh drawing , industrial designer : okay . project manager : to do it on a blank sheet , with different colours and i just showed you how to pick a colour , and also with different pen widths which i also showed you . um and a favourite characteristic can be just uh one word . well i 'm not very good at drawing , but i will uh go first and um try to draw user interface : project manager : or maybe you should guess what i 'm drawing , eh . industrial designer : user interface : marketing : good . user interface : marketing : no . user interface : it 's a sheep . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : seal , a seal . marketing : dinosaur . user interface : marketing : beaver . user interface : a beaver . industrial designer : a be project manager : well it uh user interface : it 's weird . project manager : could be everything . industrial designer : mm . with a tail and a mouth . project manager : maybe when i put on user interface : it has wings ? marketing : turtle . project manager : this thing it could be a turtle , or a snail , industrial designer : snail . user interface : well the snail does n't have legs . industrial designer : okay . project manager : but a turtle has . and those are slow . and i hope our project group will not be slow , industrial designer : project manager : but we will uh work to a good result industrial designer : project manager : and do it uh as fast as we can . okay , time for another animal . would you like to go next ? user interface : marketing : no problem . no problem . industrial designer : sure . user interface : oh right . marketing : mm . it was four months ? user interface : marketing : nice , okay . user interface : well . industrial designer : the hell . user interface : marketing : to make it a little bit easier . user interface : it 's a giraffe . industrial designer : make that cute . user interface : or a dinosaur . marketing : no , it 's a giraffe . 'kay . i think it 's easy to r uh to recognise as a giraffe . user interface : yes . giraffe . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah , the favourite charis characteristic is that the long neck , it can reach everything . and i hope i can also reach a lot with this project . so that 's my favourite animal . project manager : okay . marketing : anything else you need to know ? project manager : could you write the words , uh underneath it ? or more words . marketing : oh , uh industrial designer : tall . user interface : marketing : tall . so , user interface : should i uh marketing : 'kay . user interface : alright . so i can draw , but uh uh . well . oh . industrial designer : b marketing : it 's a mouse . user interface : industrial designer : bunny rabbit . marketing : a bunny rabbit . user interface : oh wrong one . uh . industrial designer : marketing : user interface : well uh you can guess what it is , i hope . marketing : uh-huh . no problem . project manager : little rabbits . user interface : it 's a rabbit . industrial designer : user interface : and uh well uh it 's uh quick , i guess . that 's uh my uh favourite animal . project manager : okay , thank you . industrial designer : okay . project manager : and our final drawing . user interface : marketing : bob ross . user interface : a dolphin . project manager : industrial designer : okay , um . marketing : dolphin . industrial designer : uh i uh draw i i 've drawn a dolphin because of its intelligence . user interface : marketing : project manager : user interface : right . industrial designer : one of the most intelligent uh project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : animals in our world . user interface : well . industrial designer : yeah intelligent . user interface : with an e_ . project manager : industrial designer : i 've i 've uh user interface : industrial designer : eraser . project manager : user interface : you can try out the eraser now . project manager : industrial designer : pen . well not perfect , but okay . project manager : okay , well thank you very much . i can see we have some uh drawing talent uh in this group , industrial designer : user interface : not really . project manager : huh ? well , nice animals , nice words . sounds good . um back to business , back to the money part . um from the finance department i have learned that we are aiming for a selling price of twenty five euros . and we 're hoping for a aim of fifty million euros and uh we are hoping to achieve that uh by aiming for an international market . and the production cost will be twelve euro fifty max . okay , well it 's time uh for some discussion . i 've wrote down some examples here of what we can can speak about . uh what 's your experience with remote controls , um what kind of ideas do you have to design a new remote control , maybe for which market segments should we aim , or should we aim for all segments . uh well actually i 'd like to hand the word uh back to you . what 's your experience with remote control ? user interface : i always lose them . industrial designer : a lot of buttons . and you always lose them . marketing : yeah . user interface : yes . industrial designer : a lot of buttons which you do n't use user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or who you do n't use marketing : complex . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : complex . not user friendly . user interface : search for the buttons , which one is which and uh marketing : boring . user interface : project manager : boring , it 's not fun to use a remote . marketing : black , all black . user interface : well . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : black colours . marketing : so , yeah . project manager : well maybe we should try to make it fun . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : they use batteries and batteries uh and poor signal . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : perhaps that you have a lot of road remotes r road con remote controls . marketing : the the angle you have to use . you had different remote controls for different devices . industrial designer : yeah , different remote controls , user interface : yes , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : perhaps you can integrate them or something . industrial designer : uh for the use of different uh devices . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : your stereo and your tv marketing : yeah . user interface : and uh . perhaps that 's an idea . marketing : yeah but then again you you still have a lot of buttons , user interface : yeah , that 's right . and which you do n't use . marketing : so industrial designer : but you could uh i thin uh there 's a possibility to g uh to uh to put those buttons uh behind some uh kind of uh protection user interface : right . industrial designer : so that if y y you only get to see them when you need 'em . marketing : yeah . yeah , okay , that 's possible , industrial designer : that 's possible , so that you only get the marketing : but it 'll get very big the the remote control . user interface : yeah . you should just give it to . industrial designer : no n n no , just uh for example you got th uh the same size uh remote control you use everyday , but um the usual buttons such as uh um zapping uh as you call it in dutch . uh and the volume control uh are only the only possible buttons uh to use directly . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : changing channel . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or uh the numbers , of course . marketing : mm-hmm . numbers . industrial designer : but uh not uh the buttons used to search on the the channels on your television . marketing : on and off . industrial designer : you only use those uh the first time , or . marketing : yeah , industrial designer : so . uh . marketing : play , pause , stop . project manager : mm-hmm . so maybe a a minimalist design , the least uh possible amount uh of buttons . industrial designer : yeah , i think so , yeah . user interface : yes . but you should make sure that you have every button they need on it . because uh things for uh teletext , i dunno uh , w marketing : mm-hmm , of course . industrial designer : yeah , uh teletext . marketing : user interface : what 's the name ? project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : think so . okay . project manager : so you do n't want to bother people with uh loads of buttons , but on the other hand they need many buttons so they do n't have to get out of their seat . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : but industrial designer : right . marketing : because i think a market will be all kind of people . elderly p el elderly , young people , so . user interface : but if if it 's if it 's international you should uh look in think in britain they have uh different things they can do with the tv , or so uh that you can choose what you want to see . i dunno if you should uh take that in consideration , or that you just should aim for the normal tvs that uh industrial designer : yeah i i understand . marketing : yeah i think that 's the better one , user interface : and the b_b_c_ . marketing : because i think if you you 're going to target a lot of people and the whole world and only britain then i think the cost will uh rise higher than the twelve fifty , i think . industrial designer : no . user interface : yes . yeah , i do n't know if the they have that anywhere else , though . marketing : i think the aim is better to use uh the whole world and britain , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : yeah , we can leave that . industrial designer : when i think of it uh marketing : not that much . industrial designer : i think the main idea uh of this remote remote control is uh to make it user friendly . so uh i think uh when p uh when uh the customers will buy this remote control , they already have uh the remote control which uh companies uh uh with uh the the standards uh remote control with which comes uh with the television . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm . standard deliver . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : it only has to have uh the most used buttons . you do n't have to integrate the buttons to search the channels on your television . in those in that marketing : no but user interface : but then you have to to find your other remote control if you want to search . marketing : yeah . yeah , th it it 's i think that 's not user interface : that 's not industrial designer : yeah but i but it is impossible to uh to accommodate uh accommodate uh all the buttons on the s on the difference different televisions sets on one remote control . it 's impossible . user interface : yeah , that 's right . marketing : yeah , okay . industrial designer : because uh for example sony television uh has the opportunity to s to make uh uh to make it possible for to see on one side of the screen uh teletext , and on the other side uh just n uh regular television . uh user interface : yeah that 's uh . marketing : i think n m n most televisions nowadays do this . industrial designer : yeah , but uh they do n't use the same signal , uh on remote control . user interface : well not everywhere . marketing : so i think numerals . industrial designer : because you ca n't use a panasonic uh remote control on a on a philips television . marketing : yeah , but then you have to choose the always with r universal remotes you have to choose the code . user interface : yeah , you can choose the code . industrial designer : okay . okay . okay . okay , marketing : you can use which which type of television you have . that 's no problem . but i think like the two pages on the same screen , like teletext and normal television , that 's that 's nowadays standard , i think . industrial designer : but uh i think that most people uh th uh will buy the remote control because because uh the first they lost the one they lost first one marketing : simplicity . industrial designer : or the first one is broken , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so uh uh perhaps they have a got a an older television , marketing : yeah , yeah . mm-hmm . industrial designer : so that option is not uh optional for those uh people . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah g available . user interface : but the people have a new television , marketing : true . user interface : and c if you look into the future , then they want will want the button , if their thing is broke . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so we should take that in consideration . user interface : yeah . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : mm-hmm . okay , well marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : any more ideas ? user interface : industrial designer : oh mm , no . user interface : guess not . marketing : of course . industrial designer : things 'll come up . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay , yeah well we have some time . let 's see what more i have to tell you . i do n't think there is much left . nope . we 're starting to close . um our next meeting uh will start well we 're a little bit early , but our next meeting will start in in thirty minutes . industrial designer : user interface : project manager : in the meantime uh there 's time for some uh individual actions . um , as you can see , the different roles have uh different tasks . and there 's a ping . user interface : project manager : is it my laptop ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : stop the meeting now . project manager : ah well user interface : yeah meeting will close in five minutes . project manager : that 's good , five minutes and uh the meeting 's over , uh right on schedule . industrial designer : okay . project manager : um the marketing expert will uh will take a look at the user requirement specification . the user interface designer will work out the technical functions design . and this was the interface designer ? or the interaction designer . user interface : hmm hmm . project manager : or what was it , i_d_ ? user interface : no interface . marketing : interface . project manager : interface designer , okay , first guess was right . uh will take a look at the the working design . industrial designer : the industrial designer will take a look at the working design , user interface : the yeah . industrial designer : and the in uh usability interaction project manager : industrial designer , okay , industrial designer : yeah , okay . okay . project manager : sorry . let 's just use the acronyms . um and of course specific instructions uh will be sent to you uh through your personal coach . user interface : so so i should look at uh what you should be able to do with the remote , or uh , or how i do n't really project manager : uh well those instructions will be uh in the email you will receive uh shortly , i hope . user interface : right . alright . me too . project manager : and of course you have your own uh expertise . user interface : industrial designer : project manager : well uh that was what i had to say . marketing : uh-huh . project manager : uh are there any more questions ? industrial designer : okay . project manager : no ? okay well i think then we have to head uh back to our offices and uh start working . industrial designer : okay . marketing : i have one question . project manager : okay , one question ? marketing : where does it says we have to make a remote , because i presumed she did n't know who . okay , no , no problem . user interface : industrial designer : no problem . okay . project manager : we 're still going . marketing : no problem . yeah . project manager : okay , well i expect everything will be much clearer with the instructions we will receive uh shortly . user interface : alright . marketing : mm-hmm . project manager : okay well uh see you all in about thirty minutes , then . industrial designer : alrighty . okay . project manager : thank you very much . user interface : yeah . marketing : industrial designer : </s>
<s> what is the group 's experience about remote control ? </s> user interface : i always lose them . industrial designer : a lot of buttons . and you always lose them . marketing : yeah . user interface : yes . industrial designer : a lot of buttons which you do n't use user interface : yeah . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or who you do n't use marketing : complex . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : complex . not user friendly . user interface : search for the buttons , which one is which and uh marketing : boring . user interface : project manager : boring , it 's not fun to use a remote . marketing : black , all black . user interface : well . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : black colours . marketing : so , yeah . project manager : well maybe we should try to make it fun . marketing : mm-hmm . industrial designer : they use batteries and batteries uh and poor signal . project manager : mm-hmm . marketing : yeah . user interface : perhaps that you have a lot of road remotes r road con remote controls . marketing : the the angle you have to use . you had different remote controls for different devices . industrial designer : yeah , different remote controls , user interface : yes , industrial designer : yeah . user interface : perhaps you can integrate them or something . industrial designer : uh for the use of different uh devices . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : your stereo and your tv marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> what did the group discuss about the new remote control style ? </s> industrial designer : yeah . user interface : perhaps you can integrate them or something . industrial designer : uh for the use of different uh devices . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : your stereo and your tv marketing : yeah . user interface : and uh . perhaps that 's an idea . marketing : yeah but then again you you still have a lot of buttons , user interface : yeah , that 's right . and which you do n't use . marketing : so industrial designer : but you could uh i thin uh there 's a possibility to g uh to uh to put those buttons uh behind some uh kind of uh protection user interface : right . industrial designer : so that if y y you only get to see them when you need 'em . marketing : yeah . yeah , okay , that 's possible , industrial designer : that 's possible , so that you only get the marketing : but it 'll get very big the the remote control . user interface : yeah . you should just give it to . industrial designer : no n n no , just uh for example you got th uh the same size uh remote control you use everyday , but um the usual buttons such as uh um zapping uh as you call it in dutch . uh and the volume control uh are only the only possible buttons uh to use directly . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : changing channel . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or uh the numbers , of course . marketing : mm-hmm . numbers . industrial designer : but uh not uh the buttons used to search on the the channels on your television . marketing : on and off . industrial designer : you only use those uh the first time , or . marketing : yeah , industrial designer : so . uh . marketing : play , pause , stop . project manager : mm-hmm . so maybe a a minimalist design , the least uh possible amount uh of buttons . industrial designer : yeah , i think so , yeah . user interface : yes . but you should make sure that you have every button they need on it . because uh things for uh teletext , i dunno uh , w marketing : mm-hmm , of course . industrial designer : yeah , uh teletext . marketing : user interface : what 's the name ? project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : think so . okay . project manager : so you do n't want to bother people with uh loads of buttons , but on the other hand they need many buttons so they do n't have to get out of their seat . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah . user interface : but </s>
<s> what did industrial designer think about remote control style ? </s> industrial designer : uh for the use of different uh devices . project manager : mm-hmm . user interface : your stereo and your tv marketing : yeah . user interface : and uh . perhaps that 's an idea . marketing : yeah but then again you you still have a lot of buttons , user interface : yeah , that 's right . and which you do n't use . marketing : so industrial designer : but you could uh i thin uh there 's a possibility to g uh to uh to put those buttons uh behind some uh kind of uh protection user interface : right . industrial designer : so that if y y you only get to see them when you need 'em . marketing : yeah . yeah , okay , that 's possible , industrial designer : that 's possible , so that you only get the marketing : but it 'll get very big the the remote control . user interface : yeah . you should just give it to . industrial designer : no n n no , just uh for example you got th uh the same size uh remote control you use everyday , but um the usual buttons such as uh um zapping uh as you call it in dutch . uh and the volume control uh are only the only possible buttons uh to use directly . marketing : mm-hmm . user interface : changing channel . project manager : mm-hmm . industrial designer : or uh the numbers , of course . marketing : mm-hmm . numbers . industrial designer : but uh not uh the buttons used to search on the the channels on your television . marketing : on and off . industrial designer : you only use those uh the first time , or . marketing : yeah , industrial designer : so . uh . marketing : play , pause , stop . </s>
<s> what did the group think of market range about remote control ? </s> industrial designer : right . marketing : because i think a market will be all kind of people . elderly p el elderly , young people , so . user interface : but if if it 's if it 's international you should uh look in think in britain they have uh different things they can do with the tv , or so uh that you can choose what you want to see . i dunno if you should uh take that in consideration , or that you just should aim for the normal tvs that uh industrial designer : yeah i i understand . marketing : yeah i think that 's the better one , user interface : and the b_b_c_ . marketing : because i think if you you 're going to target a lot of people and the whole world and only britain then i think the cost will uh rise higher than the twelve fifty , i think . industrial designer : no . user interface : yes . yeah , i do n't know if the they have that anywhere else , though . marketing : i think the aim is better to use uh the whole world and britain , yeah . industrial designer : yeah . </s>
<s> what did marketing disagree with industrial designer about new remote control ? </s> industrial designer : it only has to have uh the most used buttons . you do n't have to integrate the buttons to search the channels on your television . in those in that marketing : no but user interface : but then you have to to find your other remote control if you want to search . marketing : yeah . yeah , th it it 's i think that 's not user interface : that 's not industrial designer : yeah but i but it is impossible to uh to accommodate uh accommodate uh all the buttons on the s on the difference different televisions sets on one remote control . it 's impossible . user interface : yeah , that 's right . marketing : yeah , okay . industrial designer : because uh for example sony television uh has the opportunity to s to make uh uh to make it possible for to see on one side of the screen uh teletext , and on the other side uh just n uh regular television . uh user interface : yeah that 's uh . marketing : i think n m n most televisions nowadays do this . industrial designer : yeah , but uh they do n't use the same signal , uh on remote control . user interface : well not everywhere . marketing : so i think numerals . industrial designer : because you ca n't use a panasonic uh remote control on a on a philips television . marketing : yeah , but then you have to choose the always with r universal remotes you have to choose the code . user interface : yeah , you can choose the code . </s>
<s> what is the target population of the new remote control ? </s> marketing : you can use which which type of television you have . that 's no problem . but i think like the two pages on the same screen , like teletext and normal television , that 's that 's nowadays standard , i think . industrial designer : but uh i think that most people uh th uh will buy the remote control because because uh the first they lost the one they lost first one marketing : simplicity . industrial designer : or the first one is broken , marketing : yeah . industrial designer : so uh uh perhaps they have a got a an older television , marketing : yeah , yeah . mm-hmm . industrial designer : so that option is not uh optional for those uh people . user interface : yeah . marketing : yeah g available . user interface : but the people have a new television , marketing : true . user interface : and c if you look into the future , then they want will want the button , if their thing is broke . industrial designer : yeah , yeah . marketing : yeah . </s>
<s> summarize the whole meeting . </s> project manager : user interface : how do you wear this thing ? project manager : hmm . mm mm mm . user interface : not too many cables and stuff . project manager : user interface : original . project manager : is recorded ? okay ? okay so welcome everyone . so we are here for the kickoff meeting of uh the process of designing a new remote control . so i will first start with a warm welcome opening stuff , user interface : project manager : then uh we will uh see what will be uh our product and what will be the different step we will have to design it . and uh then we will uh discuss if we have few ideas and we will uh end uh by uh dispatching the different task you will be you will have to fulfil to complete this process . so user interface : uh . just one thing . uh , you said twenty-five minutes , but i have something else to do uh , so got ta have another meeting uh soon , project manager : user interface : so maybe you could hurry up a bit project manager : sorry ? user interface : it 's true . i have another meeting so if you could uh project manager : you have another meeting soon ? user interface : yeah . project manager : so you have to be quick . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , for the lawnmower project . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : so the the goal is to have a remote control so to have an advantage over our competitors we have to be original , we have to be trendy and we have to also try to be user-friendly . user interface : project manager : so uh the design step will be divided in three uh main points . first it will be the functional design . third is the conceptual design and then is the desired design . so the functional design is to identify the main user needs , the technical function the remote control should fulfil . and then we will move to f conceptual design where we 'll specify the different component involved , what kind of user interf interface we want and what are the different uh trend in user interface and stuff like that . industrial designer : project manager : and then the desired devi design will consist in uh specifically implementing and detailing the choice we 've uh made in the second point . so i will now ask you which is very important for the design of a new remote control for to uh each of us to to draw uh your favourite animal on the white board . user interface : what an original idea . project manager : do you have any idea of which animal you want to show us ? user interface : orangutan . project manager : okay that 's good . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : no no n project manager : n n user interface : can i give you the project manager : you should user interface : no ? but i do n't have to say anything . when i 'm drawing the orangutan . project manager : if you want to react uh about this wonderful drawing uh i 'll let you uh comment . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : it 's an abstract drawing of an orangutan . project manager : okay it 's an abstract drawing . i think it 's nice and original . industrial designer : you should write y the name i think . marketing : user interface : i do n't have a red colour . usually orangutans have red hair so this is a very important but i do n't have red pen , so project manager : okay . user interface : yes . project manager : you want to draw something christine ? marketing : user interface : marketing : okay uh sorry . you have to imagine a little bit um . project manager : marketing : this project manager : of course your animal is recorded so it 's not lost . marketing : sorry too uh . user interface : yes . i know . project manager : marketing : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : project manager : is this uh user interface : wha what is this strange beast ? marketing : is it beautiful ? project manager : industrial designer : user interface : is it a monster ? project manager : marketing : do you know ? it 's a cat . user interface : it 's a cat ? industrial designer : marketing : is n't it ? user interface : i thought these things did not exist . project manager : marketing : yes yes industrial designer : me marketing : is it like that . user interface : ah yeah industrial designer : ah yeah . yeah . marketing : is it better ? project manager : ah okay it 's pretty . marketing : okay . project manager : okay it 's your cat . marketing : it 's my cat . user interface : does have a name ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : the name is caramel . user interface : caramel . ah-ha . industrial designer : caramel . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . olivier , do you want to industrial designer : and you i think i 'm too short for the cables . marketing : project manager : okay i go , but next time you 'll do something i 'm sure . i 'm a bit short on cable . user interface : next time i concentrate . industrial designer : project manager : okay . so what could i draw ? maybe i can draw like a very simplified cow . i do n't know if it looks like a cow user interface : he looks like a bong . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : like a what ? user interface : okay . sorry . no . industrial designer : quite squarey . user interface : scary ? project manager : industrial designer : he also . marketing : project manager : i dunno it it looks more like a donkey in fact i would say . user interface : marketing : user interface : i i think we will be finished this uh project manager : okay so i hope that it helps you uh in the process of designing a remote control . user interface : is it for uh for putting a for logos , no . project manager : okay . user interface : that 's project manager : let 's move on . so here the uh financial objective of our project . that is to say to to have a production cost lower than twelve point five euros and have a selling price of twice that price t in order to target a profe profit of uh fifty uh million euros . user interface : i is there a matter for a new remote control ? project manager : yeah if it 's trendy , original i d fulfil the user needs . user interface : is it uh a single device remote control or is it a multi-device remote control ? project manager : we have to discuss that point . on user interface : this is not defined at all ? project manager : yeah you you can suggest points like this . so what what user interface : ah , okay . project manager : so we have to decide for example if it can control one device or multiple . so what 's what are your ideas about that ? user interface : project manager : maybe i can have the your opinion from the marketing side ? user interface : well uh do we sell other stuff ? uh if if we bundle the remote control with something uh to sell then it could be a single device , otherwise it could be programmable one otherwise who would buy a remote control from us . project manager : okay , so if it selled uh by its own i it it would rather be for multiple device . user interface : yeah . project manager : do you agree ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . so maybe it should be for multiple devices . and uh do you have any ideas um of uh design ideas or any uh uh technical requirement we we should uh fulfil ? industrial designer : i think we should n't have too many b for my part . i think user interface : no , i couldn i can not fi think of any requirements right now . industrial designer : if we do n't have so many buttons could be nice . project manager : few buttons . okay . user interface : project manager : and do you have it also to be to be lighted in order to be used in the dark ? might be a good idea . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . and do you have any um any uh idea of the trend the trend in domain , what it should n't it should look like , or things like that ? industrial designer : something which is not squarey maybe uh , not a box . project manager : with rou okay . like for okay . user interface : something like that , least fits in your hand . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : the basic requirement . project manager : so . fit in your hand , yeah . user interface : only a buck . project manager : and also it have , i it may be it may be important for the remote control to be uh to , to resist to various shocks that can happen if it fall . user interface : industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : waterproof . project manager : water-proof as well . industrial designer : and i think we should have a device project manager : maybe it is original because you can uh use it in your uh in your bath whereas the others ca n't . user interface : marketing : project manager : maybe water-proof would be very original . industrial designer : sorry . marketing : project manager : havin having a water-proof remote control so that the people can uh use it in their bath . that could be uh user interface : b it seems uh so , but uh if you do n't have an waterproof remote control it means you can just cover it with some plastic and you can sort of f project manager : yeah but , it is still something uh you have to buy and that is um not maybe very user interface : and , and that 's one of the that 's one of the shock i mean there are people that have a remote control and they are worried that it 's going to break and they put some extra plastic around it . project manager : yeah , mayb b user interface : that 's people they actually do it themselves . project manager : but maybe we can bulk it with uh already this plastic thing and uh the waterproof uh stuff as well . industrial designer : yeah . directly . user interface : i it will look a bulky in that case . project manager : yeah . maybe we can sell uh all that together , so so plastic protection and uh and a waterproof box as well . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that might be good uh track to follow . user interface : like as an optional thing . project manager : optional or selled with it ? industrial designer : and i i think we should have something , most of the time i i lose my remote control . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : we should have s uh special bu button on the tv to make the remote control beeping . project manager : maybe we can have uh but we do n't design the tv . marketing : project manager : maybe we can have uh something you whistle and uh the remote control uh beep . industrial designer : ah yeah . marketing : user interface : barks . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , barks , yeah . industrial designer : barks . project manager : so we can uh have a whistle uh remote control ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah whistle . project manager : i do n't know , whistle-able ? th industrial designer : whistle tracking . project manager : whistle tracking yeah . whistle tracking remote control . that 's a good idea , that 's very original and that 's can uh improve . user interface : that 's that 's quite cool , but uh of course we you do n't normally need uh any audio uh recording stuff on your remote control right ? project manager : yeah d d uh . user interface : so i it 's just going to add t to the cost . project manager : yeah but s still we have to mm we have to have an advantage over our competitors . i think this is a good advantage . user interface : it 's cool . i think i like the idea , but i 'm not sure about the what you , project manager : yeah . we have to ask user interface : who is giving who 's giving who 's giving our budget . who 's project manager : yeah . we have to ask the quest of that 's uh design to the uh industrial um designer . user interface : yeah . yeah . industrial designer : yeah . yeah project manager : which is you . user interface : 'kay . project manager : okay so try to find that for next meeting . industrial designer : okay . project manager : okay . so next meeting is in thirty minutes or so uh . do n't pani . industrial designer : do n't panic . project manager : so so i will ask the industrial designer to find out more about this industrial design so any working any working function we have discussed . industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : so then i will ask the user interf interface designer to to think about the point we discussed like the number of buttons , the the fact that is lighted or not , things like that , and what would be convenient for the user . user interface : mm-hmm . project manager : and also um i will ask the market expert to uh try to find out what are the absolute requirements , what is absolutely needed in a remote control uh for the user . so . and then uh i will uh just ask you to think about that and uh look at your mail because you will receive uh some good advice soon . so . thank you i think that 's all for this point . user interface : good . industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : marketing : thank you user interface : uh , so we come back in five minutes ? half an hour . project manager : anyway you will receive some messages . be careful . you eat it ? does it move uh ? okay , but i do n't know if it uh is still correctly uh we 'll see . </s>
<s> summarize the discussion of group warming and the introduction to the new remote control project . </s> project manager : user interface : how do you wear this thing ? project manager : hmm . mm mm mm . user interface : not too many cables and stuff . project manager : user interface : original . project manager : is recorded ? okay ? okay so welcome everyone . so we are here for the kickoff meeting of uh the process of designing a new remote control . so i will first start with a warm welcome opening stuff , user interface : project manager : then uh we will uh see what will be uh our product and what will be the different step we will have to design it . and uh then we will uh discuss if we have few ideas and we will uh end uh by uh dispatching the different task you will be you will have to fulfil to complete this process . so user interface : uh . just one thing . uh , you said twenty-five minutes , but i have something else to do uh , so got ta have another meeting uh soon , project manager : user interface : so maybe you could hurry up a bit project manager : sorry ? user interface : it 's true . i have another meeting so if you could uh project manager : you have another meeting soon ? user interface : yeah . project manager : so you have to be quick . industrial designer : user interface : yeah , for the lawnmower project . project manager : okay . user interface : okay . project manager : so the the goal is to have a remote control so to have an advantage over our competitors we have to be original , we have to be trendy and we have to also try to be user-friendly . user interface : project manager : so uh the design step will be divided in three uh main points . first it will be the functional design . third is the conceptual design and then is the desired design . so the functional design is to identify the main user needs , the technical function the remote control should fulfil . and then we will move to f conceptual design where we 'll specify the different component involved , what kind of user interf interface we want and what are the different uh trend in user interface and stuff like that . </s>
<s> what did project manager recommend to do after introducing the design steps and why ? </s> user interface : what an original idea . project manager : do you have any idea of which animal you want to show us ? user interface : orangutan . project manager : okay that 's good . industrial designer : user interface : industrial designer : no no n project manager : n n user interface : can i give you the project manager : you should user interface : no ? but i do n't have to say anything . when i 'm drawing the orangutan . project manager : if you want to react uh about this wonderful drawing uh i 'll let you uh comment . user interface : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : it 's an abstract drawing of an orangutan . project manager : okay it 's an abstract drawing . i think it 's nice and original . industrial designer : you should write y the name i think . marketing : user interface : i do n't have a red colour . usually orangutans have red hair so this is a very important but i do n't have red pen , so project manager : okay . user interface : yes . project manager : you want to draw something christine ? marketing : user interface : marketing : okay uh sorry . you have to imagine a little bit um . project manager : marketing : this project manager : of course your animal is recorded so it 's not lost . marketing : sorry too uh . user interface : yes . i know . project manager : marketing : user interface : industrial designer : marketing : user interface : project manager : is this uh user interface : wha what is this strange beast ? marketing : is it beautiful ? project manager : industrial designer : user interface : is it a monster ? project manager : marketing : do you know ? it 's a cat . user interface : it 's a cat ? industrial designer : marketing : is n't it ? user interface : i thought these things did not exist . project manager : marketing : yes yes industrial designer : me marketing : is it like that . user interface : ah yeah industrial designer : ah yeah . yeah . marketing : is it better ? project manager : ah okay it 's pretty . marketing : okay . project manager : okay it 's your cat . marketing : it 's my cat . user interface : does have a name ? marketing : yeah . industrial designer : marketing : the name is caramel . user interface : caramel . ah-ha . industrial designer : caramel . marketing : yeah . project manager : okay . olivier , do you want to industrial designer : and you i think i 'm too short for the cables . marketing : project manager : okay i go , but next time you 'll do something i 'm sure . i 'm a bit short on cable . user interface : next time i concentrate . industrial designer : project manager : okay . so what could i draw ? maybe i can draw like a very simplified cow . i do n't know if it looks like a cow user interface : he looks like a bong . marketing : industrial designer : project manager : like a what ? user interface : okay . sorry . no . industrial designer : quite squarey . user interface : scary ? project manager : industrial designer : he also . marketing : project manager : i dunno it it looks more like a donkey in fact i would say . user interface : marketing : user interface : i i think we will be finished this uh </s>
<s> summarize the discussion of specific designing requirements of the new remote control . </s> user interface : i is there a matter for a new remote control ? project manager : yeah if it 's trendy , original i d fulfil the user needs . user interface : is it uh a single device remote control or is it a multi-device remote control ? project manager : we have to discuss that point . on user interface : this is not defined at all ? project manager : yeah you you can suggest points like this . so what what user interface : ah , okay . project manager : so we have to decide for example if it can control one device or multiple . so what 's what are your ideas about that ? user interface : project manager : maybe i can have the your opinion from the marketing side ? user interface : well uh do we sell other stuff ? uh if if we bundle the remote control with something uh to sell then it could be a single device , otherwise it could be programmable one otherwise who would buy a remote control from us . project manager : okay , so if it selled uh by its own i it it would rather be for multiple device . user interface : yeah . project manager : do you agree ? industrial designer : mm-hmm . project manager : yeah . so maybe it should be for multiple devices . and uh do you have any ideas um of uh design ideas or any uh uh technical requirement we we should uh fulfil ? industrial designer : i think we should n't have too many b for my part . i think user interface : no , i couldn i can not fi think of any requirements right now . industrial designer : if we do n't have so many buttons could be nice . project manager : few buttons . okay . user interface : project manager : and do you have it also to be to be lighted in order to be used in the dark ? might be a good idea . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : okay . and do you have any um any uh idea of the trend the trend in domain , what it should n't it should look like , or things like that ? industrial designer : something which is not squarey maybe uh , not a box . project manager : with rou okay . like for okay . user interface : something like that , least fits in your hand . project manager : okay . user interface : yeah . industrial designer : yeah . user interface : the basic requirement . project manager : so . fit in your hand , yeah . user interface : only a buck . project manager : and also it have , i it may be it may be important for the remote control to be uh to , to resist to various shocks that can happen if it fall . user interface : industrial designer : mm-hmm . user interface : waterproof . project manager : water-proof as well . industrial designer : and i think we should have a device project manager : maybe it is original because you can uh use it in your uh in your bath whereas the others ca n't . user interface : marketing : project manager : maybe water-proof would be very original . industrial designer : sorry . marketing : project manager : havin having a water-proof remote control so that the people can uh use it in their bath . that could be uh user interface : b it seems uh so , but uh if you do n't have an waterproof remote control it means you can just cover it with some plastic and you can sort of f project manager : yeah but , it is still something uh you have to buy and that is um not maybe very user interface : and , and that 's one of the that 's one of the shock i mean there are people that have a remote control and they are worried that it 's going to break and they put some extra plastic around it . project manager : yeah , mayb b user interface : that 's people they actually do it themselves . project manager : but maybe we can bulk it with uh already this plastic thing and uh the waterproof uh stuff as well . industrial designer : yeah . directly . user interface : i it will look a bulky in that case . project manager : yeah . maybe we can sell uh all that together , so so plastic protection and uh and a waterproof box as well . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that might be good uh track to follow . user interface : like as an optional thing . project manager : optional or selled with it ? industrial designer : and i i think we should have something , most of the time i i lose my remote control . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : we should have s uh special bu button on the tv to make the remote control beeping . project manager : maybe we can have uh but we do n't design the tv . marketing : project manager : maybe we can have uh something you whistle and uh the remote control uh beep . industrial designer : ah yeah . marketing : user interface : barks . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , barks , yeah . industrial designer : barks . project manager : so we can uh have a whistle uh remote control ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah whistle . project manager : i do n't know , whistle-able ? th industrial designer : whistle tracking . project manager : whistle tracking yeah . whistle tracking remote control . that 's a good idea , that 's very original and that 's can uh improve . user interface : that 's that 's quite cool , but uh of course we you do n't normally need uh any audio uh recording stuff on your remote control right ? project manager : yeah d d uh . user interface : so i it 's just going to add t to the cost . </s>
<s> what did project manager ’ s think of the water-proof design when discussing the designing requirements of the new remote control ? </s> user interface : waterproof . project manager : water-proof as well . industrial designer : and i think we should have a device project manager : maybe it is original because you can uh use it in your uh in your bath whereas the others ca n't . user interface : marketing : project manager : maybe water-proof would be very original . industrial designer : sorry . marketing : project manager : havin having a water-proof remote control so that the people can uh use it in their bath . that could be uh user interface : b it seems uh so , but uh if you do n't have an waterproof remote control it means you can just cover it with some plastic and you can sort of f </s>
<s> what did the conferees think of the solution to water-proof and shock-proof technical demands when discussing the designing requirements of the new remote control ? </s> user interface : and , and that 's one of the that 's one of the shock i mean there are people that have a remote control and they are worried that it 's going to break and they put some extra plastic around it . project manager : yeah , mayb b user interface : that 's people they actually do it themselves . project manager : but maybe we can bulk it with uh already this plastic thing and uh the waterproof uh stuff as well . industrial designer : yeah . directly . user interface : i it will look a bulky in that case . project manager : yeah . maybe we can sell uh all that together , so so plastic protection and uh and a waterproof box as well . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : that might be good uh track to follow . user interface : like as an optional thing . project manager : optional or selled with it ? </s>
<s> what did industrial designer and project manager think of the remote tracking method when discussing the designing requirements of the new remote control ? </s> industrial designer : and i i think we should have something , most of the time i i lose my remote control . project manager : yeah . industrial designer : we should have s uh special bu button on the tv to make the remote control beeping . project manager : maybe we can have uh but we do n't design the tv . marketing : project manager : maybe we can have uh something you whistle and uh the remote control uh beep . industrial designer : ah yeah . marketing : user interface : barks . industrial designer : yeah . project manager : yeah , barks , yeah . industrial designer : barks . project manager : so we can uh have a whistle uh remote control ? industrial designer : yeah . yeah whistle . project manager : i do n't know , whistle-able ? th industrial designer : whistle tracking . </s>
